Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



MEMOIRS, 



JOURNAL, AND CORRESPONDENCE 



OF 



THOMAS MOORE. 



VOL. II. 



<The Author*! Astignees hereby give Nodce that they retenre to themtel?M the right of 

TraiulatioD of thia Work.) 



IfiMJMGliV.^.. 




HAN, lilMWN r;i, 



MEMOIRS, 



JOURNAL, AND CORRESPONDENCE 



OP 



THOMAS MOORE. 



EDITED BT 



THE RIGHT HONOURABLE 

LORD JOHN RUSSELL, M.P. 



it 



Spirat adhnc amor."— Hob. 



V 



^ 



VOL. n. 






LONDON: 
LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, AND LONGMANS 

1853. 



*^* The Copyright in this work is protected in France by Regis- 
tration at Paris, parsnant to the Convention for the establishment of 
International Copyright signed at Paris. 3rd Noyember, 1851. 

^ < 4 ^ ^ 



LOMOOMS 

SromswooDBs and Shaw, 
New-ttreet-Squtfe. 



k > 



I 



4- A 






-'•V 



0' 

Y 



CONTENTS 



OF 



THE SECOND VOLUME. 



^^ t ^ 



Fige 
Lettebs, 1814—1818 - - - - - 1 

DiABT - 143 



i 



MEMOIRS, 
JOURNAL, AND CORRESPONDENCE 



! OP 



THOMAS MOOKE. 



VOL. n. 



^^>^ OP THT5 

I7EESIT 



LETTERS. 



1814—1818. 



[No. ^64.] jH? Lady Donegah 

Mondaj, Jan. 10. 1814. 

Why don\ you write to me? Why don't you write 

to mc? Why don't you write to me? Two-pence to be 

liaid upon Ae inclosed, and forwarded directly. Lord 

Byron dedicates his Corsair to me, and from ihis on't 

lonls are to dedicate to poor poets, instead of poor poets 

dedicating to lords. Mrs. Wihnot has written to me to 

furmsh her with an epilogue for her tragedy, with fine 

flourishes about its being the wish of Messrs. Sheridan, 

Whitbread, &c. &c. I have taken time to conradar. Last 

packet brought me proposals of being elected librarian 

to the Dublin Society, 200/. per annum, coals, candles, and 

to be qualified in German for it, at half an hour's notioe, 

by Mr. Professor Feinagle. Every body thinks me a 

person of some consequence except you two sisters tiiere> 

» a 



4 LETTERS. [JE-.TJ 

in Davies Street ; and unless you give some si(/ns o) 
in the course of this week, I shall hand you over to 
Humane Society for resuscitating persons in said condi 
Ever yours notwithstanding, 

T. MooK 



[No. 265.] To Mr. Power. 

Monday, Jan. 17. 18] 
My dear Sir, 

I did not intend to have any comjnunication with 
till Friday, but as I have been requested by the Cooj 
to send the inclosed, I must give you the trouble of 
warding them ; and I think I shall not inflict another pac 
on my friend Lord Glenbervie till this day week, when ; 
shall have the two jobs of the present week. I was v 
much delighted to receive your two last letters, thoug 
did not answer the one about your excursion to France 
soon as you seemed to wish, concluding that there is 
yet no hurry, though certainly I have no doubt of a pei 
taking place very soon, and then, my dear sir, after I h& 
seen my poor Bessy safe over her July production, I sh 
be at your command for a short musical trip at a da; 
notice : besides the pleasure of our being together, 1 thi 
it is quite necessary for you to have some one with yi 
that speaks French, and I have but little doubt th 
we shall make the excursion tell. 

I have had a letter from old Sheddon, in which there 
no money, but some sort of promise, which I can hard] 
understand, of remittances I may expect, he says, o 
account of last year. Heaven grant it ! they can neve 
come amiss. 

Lord Byron's new poem is dedicated to me, and as i 



1814.J I.ETTERS. 5 

will be a fortnight yet before it appears, I will give you a 
taste of what he says, which I flatter myself will be a 
cordial to you. " I take this opportunity of adorning my 
pages with a name consecrated by unshaken public prin- 
ciple and the most imdoubted and various talent While 
Ireland ranks you among the firmest of her patriots; 
while you stand alone the first of her bards in her 
estimation, and Britain repeats and ratifies the decree, 
permit one, whose only regret since the conunencement of 
our acquaintance, has been the years he had lost before it 
began, to add his humble suiTrage of friendship to the 
voice of more than one nation : ^ then, at the end, he says, 
*^ it may be of some service to me that the man who is the 
delight both of his readers and his friends ; the poet of all 
circles, and the idol of his own; permits me here and 
elsewhere to subscribe myself," &c. &c Is not this very 
fine ? They may say the praise is laid on with a trowel, 
but at least it is a golden trowel that lays it on. 

Best regards to Mrs. Power from Bessy and myself, 
and believe me, my dear Sir, ever cordially yours, 

Thomas Moore. 



[No. 266.] To William Gardiner, Esq* 

Majfield Cottage, 
Wednesday, Jan. 19. 1814. 

My dear Sir, 

I have a thousand apolo^es to make for not answering 

your letter sooner, but I rather think I must have dreamed 

that I had done so, for though I have thought of you 

often since, it was without the least symptoms of remorse, 

till this morning I was awakened to a full sense of my 

B 3 



C LETTERS. IJETAT. 84» 

wrong towards you by discovermg jour letter in the un- 
answered side of my letter-box. I hope by this time you 
haye recovered from the effects of Mr. Cheslyn s method 
of ** teaching your youi^ idea how to shoot," and that 
you will in future keep out of the way of such unpoetical 
things as guns, squires, rabbits, &c.* The Prince was 
very gracious to you, and no one can be more so when 
he chooses. To give the devil his due, he is very fond of 
music, and that is one great step towards redemptiojx, at 
least where you and I are the judges. 

We are here, in a very delightful situation, where we 
should be most happy if you would pay us a visit. Y^ou 
must not come, however, till we have better cottage^ 
weather, as, in these snows, we cannot stir a step without 
pioneers and shovels in the van. 

When are we to have your second volume? Fray give 
our kindest regards to our well-remembered friends in High 
Street, and say that we have often meditated a visit to 
them, and shall hardly let another summer pass without 
putting it into execution. 

Will you take the trouble of telling Clarke to send me 

a bill of the things he made for me, and believe me, very 

truly yours, 

Thomas Moobe. 

What do you think of my friend Buonaparte? like most 

of our modem dramatists, he falls off in the last act de« 

plorably. 

* Not» bjf Mr, Gardiner : — '* This alludes to my having been per- 
soadedf much against mj will, to join a shooting party, at which some 
stray shots from my friend's gun, firing at a rabbit, wounded me in the 
knee, and I returned to the hall bleeding.** 



1814.] LETTEBS. 7 

[No. 267.] To Edward T. Daltan, Esq. 

Thursday, Jan. 25. 1814. 
My dearest Dalton^ 
I have just heard that you are at Lord Bective's, and 
very ill there : for goodness' sake, my dear fellow, do let 
me hear from you, or, if you dislike writing yourself, I am 
sure Mrs. Dalton will let me have a line of intelligence 
about you. If the letter I wrote to you some time since 
did but AaZf justice to the anxiety I felt to hear from you, 
I am certain you would not have left me so unaccountably 
long without that gratification. My appearance as a '^ sweet 
singer of Israel" is near at hand, and I want to know 
inrhether you will let me dedicate the first number ioj/ou^ 
and whether I may call you, ^^ My dear Dalton," in 
print f Answer these two questions immediately, as the 
printer's devil's daws are extended over me, and there is 
no time to lose. Yours ever affectionately, 

T. MOOBE. 



TNo. 268.] To his Mother. 

Tuesday, Jan. 1814. 
My dearest Mother, 
1 am sorry to find you are as wretchedly off with snow 
in Dublin as we are here ; it made me quite sad to read of 
the miseries they are suffering in the Liberty, &c. Our 
roads have been completely blocked up, and we had four 
mails due yesterday. I expect by the post Mrs. Wilmot's 
tragedy, for whidi I have half promised to write an epi- 
logue ; but, imless it is pathetic enough to melt its way to 

B 4 



8 T-ETTKHS. IJEt-jL 

me, I fear I shan't get it in time. We struggled thro 
the snow to see Statia yesterday, and were delightec 
find her improving very fast : she has cut two teeth. 

Lord Byron's poem comes out on Tuesday nexif 
ehall contrive to send you over a copy. Ever your o^w 

T03d 



[No. 269.] To '«'* Mother. 

Thursday, Jan. 181^ 
My dearest Mother, 
Lord Byron has sent me a proof sheet of his Dedicatic 
and I hope he will keep it as it is, for nothing was ever 
flattering or gratifying : as I have just Kud in a letter 
Rogers, "the overflowing praise he lavishes on me 
exactly what might be expected from a profuse, magni: 
cent-minded fellow, who does not wait for scales to wei<: 
what he says, but gives praise, as sailors lend money, i 
handfuls.^ I shall keep the proof till I see whether 1 
makes any alteration, and shall then send it you with an 
difference there may be. 

"We are almost completely blocked up by snow, an 
cannot stir without pioneers and shovels in our vai 
I have had a proposal from Dublin to stand for the libra 
rian of the Dublin Society, with a promised prospect c 
success ; but 200/. a year and residence on the spot ar 
but poor temptations, and I have declined it. Ever, mi 
darling mother, your own, 

Tom, 



T814.] XiZTXTEBS, 9 

[No. 270.] To his Mother, 

Mayfield Cottage, Thursday, 1814. 

My dearest Mother, 

I forgot to mention In my last, that my lile was quite 
gone again, and I am this moment returned from a long 
walk with as 'good a colour on my cheeks as even you, my 
darling mother, could wish to see. 

Barbara has this moment interrupted me with her often- 
repeated demand for ^* pretty mookis," which means '^ pretty 
music," and I have accordingly set her up on a chair at 
the pianoforte, where she is inflicting all sorts of tones on 
my ears. I hope she will continue as fond of it as she 
is now. 

Best love to dear father, Nell, and Kate, from your 
o\vn, 

Tom. 

[No. 271.] To Mr. Power. 

Thursday, Jan. 29. 1814. 
My dear Sir, 

You did not, of course, receive my letters of last week 

till late in this. We have been so blocked up here that I 

have not been able to take my exercise, and from this 

cause, and a very bad cold, I have been upon the whole 

rather unfitted for my studies. I send you, however, a 

Song, and an Irish Melody, which I have altered from one 

in Crotch's collection ; it is the second verse I have sent 

with it, as I am not yet satisfied with the first, and indeed 

shall have some alterations to make in this second one. I 

am resolved to make this number, at least in words ^ better^ 

if possible, than any one of them ; there are some old airs 



10 I.ETTEBS. IMtj 

for it that will admit of a fine measure for poetry. I 
what I hear of the fifth number^ I begin (though you 1 
how dissatbfied I was with it) to think it will not let d 
the character of the work : it is^ at all events, mucli b< 
than the third. One good sign is, that I find difi^ 
people choosing different &YOurites from it. Lord 1 
worth said to me at the Derby ball, " Moore, you n- 
wrote anything so good as * The Young May Mooi 
but our sixth shall be a smasher. I mean to write 
regular number through before my year is out, to Ic 
nothing for your brother to complain of; but I will p 
tively protest against its publication till I think it 
excellent; and what are over may be laid by, till we 
commence the work. 

I am determined, as soon as my poem is published 
give all my soul and body to the stage and music. I si 
not be deterred even by a failure^ for I mean to throw 
much of the best writing I can muster up into what I 
that even should the galleries damn it, I may have 
critics on my side. 

I don't know whether I told you that I have had a ; 
quest from the party lately at Whitbread's to write 
epilogue for Mrs. Wilmot's forthcoming tragedy. I ha 
said that I wiU try, and the manuscript is on its way to m 
it ought to have come last week, and I hope no accide 
has happened to it. There is no time to lose, as she ccm 
out in February. I shall take pains with it. I think tl 
oftener I rub my skirts to the Dramatic Muse the bette 
and who knows but (if I receive something fh>m Bermuda 
I may take a trip myself to town to school Miss Smith i 
her recitation of it. Ever yours, 

Thomas Moose. 



1814.] LSTTEBfl. U 



[No. 272. J To Mr. Power. 

1814. 

My dear Sir, 

I have been disappointed in not hearing from you this 
week past. I send you words of a song for Stevenson to 
set : there is a third verse, but the two will do to send him. 
He may introduce much variety in it. Let the verses be 
copied out correctly from my manner of writing them. I 
told your brother in my letter, thanking him for the Irish 
airs, that you would not bring out the sixth number till it 
was as perfect as possible, and he has written in reply that 
he would not, on any consideration, have me hurried in this 
or any other work till I was completely satisfied with it 
myself. 

Mrs. Wilmot's play does not come out for a month 
yet> and this extraordinary phenomenon, Kean, is her hero. 

You have seen, I suppose^ the lashing I have got in 
Srakard: it is an unfair renewal of all the old diarges 
against my earty poen^i ; but you perceive the Irish songs 
are sacred even in this fellow^s hands ; indeed, these songs 
arc, at present, the main bulwark of my reputation, and I 
am rejoiced at it for your sake ; but I hope to show these 
gentlemen they are mistaken, when they say there is nothing 
better in me than I have yet exhibited. 

You shall have another melody next week. Ever yours, . 

T. MOOBE. 

Fo(»r Mr. Kean is now in the honeymoon of criticism. 
Kext to the pleasure of crying a man down, your critics 



U LETTERS. C^ET-Af 

enjoy the vanity of crying him np ; but, when once up 
fixed there, he is a mark for their arrows ever after. 

*^ AVhcn first the Fount of life was flowing, 

Heavy and dark and cold it ran, 
Every gloomy instant growing 

Bitterer to the lips of Man ; 
Till Love came by, one lucky minute. 

Light of heart and fair of brow, 
And flung bis sweetening cordial in it, 

Proudly saying, * Taste it now.' 

" Then bring the Lyre, to rapture wake it. 
Who one drop of Life would waste. 
When the balm of Love can make it • 
Fit for Gods themselves to taste ? 

** Still, though now no longer bitter. 

Still, the Fount in darkness strayed, 
No*er bad morn or noontide glitter 

O'er its cloudy surface played ; 
Till Wit, the Spirit of the Mountain, 

Stooping from his airy heights, 
Cume and scattered o*er the fountain, 

All his richest rainbow lights I 

** Then bring the Lyre, to rapture wake it. 
Who one drop of Life would waste. 
When the beams of Wit can make it 
Fit for Gods themselves to taste ? ** 

The first four lines of each verse ought to be slow an 
melancholy. I should think the varieties of the expressioi 
particularly smted to a three part glee. 



[No. 273.] To his Mother. 

Monday, 1814. 

My dearest Mother, 
I have just been copying out some music to send tc 
Power by this opportunity, so that I have not left myseli 



1814.] LETTERS. 13 

SL moment to say more than that I have got the two news- 
papers you sent me. I fear my friend Bryan has not done 
quite right, though I perceive he has not lost ground with 
the Catholic Board, and I shoidd suppose that illustrious 
body would have shown their sense of his misconduct if 
lie had been wrong. What a set they are ! they make me 
l>lush for poor Ireland, 

Bessy is not at all well to-day, and it is unlucky, as we 
have the Coopers to dine with us. Ever your own, 

Tom. 



Cno. 274.] From Mr. Jeffrey to Samuel Itogersy Esq. 

92. Gee Street, Edinburgli, 
• March 30. 1814. 

My dear Sir, 
I liave long been desirous of preferring an humble peti- 
tion to your friend — and I hope I may say mine also — 
Mr. Moore, for some assistance on the Review, and have at 
last resolved to give you the trouble of making my appli-* 
cation. I can more easily state to you than to him the 
terms upon which we solicit contributions ; and I am sure 
my application will have a far better chance of success, if 
you condescend to say a word or two in its favour. On 
my return from the other side of the world, I found the 
affairs of the Review in some degree of backwardness and 
confusion ; and feel that it would require the assistance of 
finer and stronger heads than my own completely to re- 
store them. The brilliant success of some of Mr. Moore's 
late (reputed) works brought him very quickly to my 
thoughts ; and all that I have since heard of the manly 
and noble independence of his conduct, in circumstances 
of much difficulty, has increased the ambition I felt to 
X5onnect myself in some way with a person of such talents 



14 LETTEB8. [.^Etat, ; 

and Buch principles. I understand that he is liTing wil 
out any profesnon^ cultivating literature and domesi 
happiness, in a situation of retirement I am inclined 
hope, thcreftwe, that he may, occasionally at least, ha 
leisure enough to furnish us with an article, if he has n 
other and more radical objections to enrcdUng himsc 
among our contributors. If he can be prevailed on i 
do us thb honour, it will be for himself to choose tl 
subject upon whidi he would like best to enlarge, thou^ 
there is one sort of article which I should be tempted 1 
suggest, both because it is one with which I should h 
peculiarly glad to embellish our journal, and because 
know of nobody who could execute it half so well, 
mean a dasedcal, philosophical, poetical article, after th 
nature of that on Aristophanes in one of the late Quar 
terlies, in whidi some ancient author is taken up, an< 
estimated, and commented, and poetically translated h 
fragments, and the purity of classic literature combinec 
with the depth, boldness, and freedom of modem discus- 
sion. I have no particular author or publication in yie^ 
for the sulject of such an exercise ; but if Mr. Moore wai 
inclined to do the thing we could so<ni find him the 

oocadon. 

And now I have only to add, that our regular allowance 
to contributors of the first order is about twenty guii^as 
for every printed sheet of sixteen pages ; but that for such 
artidbs as I have now hinted at, we shoukl never think oi 
ofiSsring less than thirty, and probably a good deal moie. 
I have some discretion in this matter, which I am not dis- 
posed to exercise very parsimoniously. 

You see I presume a great deal on your good iiatiiie, 
when I venture, without any apology, to tzouble you with 
all tl^ negotiation; but I have akeady expcrienoed so 



1814.} LETTERS. 16 

much of your kmdnees that I do Bot fed at all afraid of 
offendiiig you, and cannot help having a kind of assurance 
that it will give you pleasure to be the means of bringing 
your excellent friend and me into scmiethii^ of a nearer 
connection. I hoffe there neither is, nor can be supposed 
to be, any kind of indelicacy in the proposal I have now 
asked you to make. Heaven forbid that yoo should make 
it if there was the shadow of a doubt on the subject ; and 
I rely entirely on your good sense and good feeling to {HKH 
ceed on it or to let it alone as you think most advisable. 
At all events, I must beg of you to take some means to let 
Moore know &at I respect and esteem lum, and diould be 
sincerely gratified to have tlie means of doing him any 
service. For yourself, I have only now to assure you that 
I am. wi1& tlie utmost respect, dear sir, your obliged and 
very fidtiiful servant, Ac 




IHo. 276.] From Mr. Jeffrey. 

Edinbnrgfi^ 

My dear Sir, 

Few tiiis^ have ever given me more pleasure than the 
account which our excellent friend Sogers has just sent 
me, not only of your favourable, but your kind reception 
of the proposal I took the liberty of making you, through 
him, about a fortnight ago. It is a great matter to gain 
such an associate for the Review; but I do assure you 
this has but an insignificant share in the gratification I 
feel in having found a fair and natural occasion to culti* 
vate your friendship, and to show my admiration of your 
talents and your character. I am sorry that you cannot 
engage to do much for us for some time to come; but 
hope you may still find some odd ends and fragments of 



16 tETTERS. C-*:t. 

time that may be bestowed on us without inconveni 
I am extremely anxious to have you fairly dipped ir 
ink, and should feel my periodical anxiety very j 
lightened for the next number if I could but reckon c 
containing one little piece of yours, however short 
inelaborate. We are most in want of light articles in 
of late, as I dare eay you have observed ; and they be 
higher value with us, like light guineas under the bu 
act I wish I could think of a bait to tempt you wit 
the gentis ridiculous; but at this distance from town 
know little of such matters, and I think I may say ^ 
perfect safety that you may choose for yourself, or let 
London friend choose for you, without the least risl 
falling upon anything that has occurred to any of 
contributors, I am obliged to go a great distance into 
country for a trial in a few hours, and am excessiv 
hurried at this moment ; but I could not think of delay: 
one hour the expression of my great satisfaction at 1 
prospect of your co-operation, and my anxiety to hs 
something from you as early as possible. The number 
am ashamed to say, has not yet gone to press, and an 
thing which you may have to send before the 25th of M 
next will be in time for insertion. May I hope soon 
hear what you think can possibly be done for us? At j 
events, I shall take the liberty of writing to you aga 
when I have a moment of greater leisure. In the meai 
time believe me always your obliged and very faithfi 
servant, 

F. jEFFBEr* 



IS 14.] I.ETTEUS, 17 

[No. 276.] To Ms MotJier, 

Mondiiv, April 25. 1814. 
]VIy clearest Mother, 
I will now give you an extract or two from Jeffrey's 
letter to Rogers. ♦ • • ♦ Jg not this very flatter* 
ing? There is nothing half so gratifying as winning 
round such antagonists to praise and friendship. 

I shall be oflT for London on Friday : poor Bessy does 
not at all like my going, but she would be very sorry I 
did not. Barbara is in high health and spirits, and little 
Statia getting on very welL Ever your own, 

Tom. 



[xo. 277.] To his Mother. 

— 1814. 
My dearest ]!^f other, 

I am again in quiet, and again able to renew my re- 
gular correspondence, which I know you will forgive the 
interruption of during my very bustling visit to town. 
I certainly never was in half such request before, and feel 
great spirits from finding my character in every way 
standing so high. I had not time to tell you of my 
appearance at Power's trial; but Lord Ellenborough's 
manner to me was of the most marked respect and polite- 
ness ; and was so far politic as well as polite, for he has 
secured my silence in his favour for ever. I would not 
from this on't touch one hair of his wig. I send you 
a report of the trial, in which his compliments to me are 
noticed. 

Did I tell you that I was offered two thousand guineas 
for my poem while I was in town ? My friends thought 

VOL. II. C 



18 LETTEBS. IJEtat. 35. 

I might command three thousand ; but I should not like 
to ask more than I could be sure of getting. 

Poor Bessy was, as you may suppose, delighted to have 
me back again. I found Barbara Yisibly improved in the 
five weeks I had be^a away, and little Statia much 
better. 

Bessy sends a collar for Ellen, which she bids me say is 

only worth acceptance aa being worked by herself, and 

the first she ever worked. God Uesa you, dearest mother. 

Ever your own, 

Tom. 



[No. 278.] To his Mother. 

Mayfield Cottage, Thursday night, 
June 1. 1814. 

My dearest Mother, 

Bessy received Ellen's letter this evening, and it re- 
joiced us exceedingly to hear you were so merry on my 
birthday * : long, long may you be merry on that day, my 
own dear mother, and may we soon be able to celebrate 
it all together. This last time eveu Bessy and I were 
separated. 

Did I tell you that Mrs. Dalton was asked to be god* 
mother to our forthcoming little thing. She has made 
Bessy very happy by a present of a most splendid cap 
And frock for it ; they are quite the admiration of all our 
female neighbours. 

I assure you I have the credit here of being a pattern 
for husbands, on account of my goodness in coming back 
to Bessy just as all the gaieties were beginning in London; 
but in this they allow me more credit than I deserve, for 
I have no great curiosity after emperors (except er-ones), 

* May 28. 



1814.] LETTERS. 19 

and of the gaieties I had quite enough. Ever, my dearest 
mother^ your 

Tom. 



CNo. 279.] From Mr, Dalton. 

28. Cavendish Street, June 27. 1814. 
My dearest Moore, 

It is really impossible to give you any idea of the scenes 
which have been passing in this metropolis since you left 
it^ and of which we haye been, in common with others, 
meet amused spectators. We haye been constant in our 
attentions to the great yisitors &om their arriyal to their 
departure. We haye seen them in all places and in all 
ways. The most striking exhibition which I saw was their 
first appearance and reception at the Opera. I do not be- 
lieve that Europe could produce anything like it. The 
Regent, who entered along with the Emperor and King of 
Prussia, and who of course shared in the applause, which 
was prodigious, turned pale when he saw the artfully timed 
entrance of the Princess of Wales exactly opposite, at the 
critical moment when the applause had subsided. I neyer 
saw anything so pcHnted as the manner in which almost 
the entire audience turned to her and cheered her. 

The good-natured Duke of Deyonshire asked us to 
Chismck to meet them ; but think of our extraordinary 
good fortune in getting tickets for Whitens fite. Oliyia 
got them. It was, I think, beautiful beyond all descrip- 
tion, and &r exceeded my expectations. Imagine the 
extent and effect oi a room in which 2500 people assem- 
bled and danced without being crowded. The supper room 
was equally large and beautifuL 

Blucher has continued, I think throughout, the object of 

c 2 



20 LETTERS. [iETJLT, 35, 

greatest curiosity and admiration. The Emperor is a very 
amiable-looking person ; the King of Prussia is, I think, 
much more interesting from his simple and unostentatious 
demeanour ; but the contrast between their natural manner 
and unaffected dress, and the artificial dignity and manu- 
factured appearance of our Regent, is most striking. 
Bating all the shows,. emperors, &c., London, people who 
know it say, has never been so stupid. 

We have decided upon going to Paris immediately. 
Oh ! that you would come with us. Would it be possible ? 
I think it would be prudent. By this time I sincerely 
hope that Mrs. Moore has removed your chief anxieties 
about her, and in a very few days she will be well enough 
to bear your absence a short time. We propose to set off 
on Monday week, the 4th July, take very few things with 
us, and spend in France about three clear weeks. During 
that time, you would have many opportunities of looking 
about you, and making inquiries, which can be so much 
. more satisfactorily done by oneself than by any other 
person, concerning a desirable situation for the permanent 
residence, about which you spoke so positively. This is, I 
think, what most people do. We should take you from 
this to Dover, and, on our return from Dover, back here. 
When we got to Calais, we should make a little stock 
purse, and a very small contribution from each would 
answer. Now, my dear Moore, if I could but convey to 
you an idea of the pleasure which such an arrangement 
would give me. I must be off on Monday or Tuesday 
week at farthest, as I am limited in time. I believe we 
shall have Power with us as a fellow-traveller. Beecher 
will set off a few days before, and Corry and his femme a 
few days after. You must write to me by return of post, 
but do. not decide against us without some good reason. 



1814.J LKTTERS, 21 

Mrs. Dalton and I tried your pianaforte at Broad wood's. 
We both thought it an uncommonly gooJ one, and the 
best there. I have given the direction to Power. I had 
the temerity, at the same time, to select three grand piano- 
fortes for Sir John. 

Do not lose any time in writing to me. Ever most truly 

yours, 

E. T. Dalton. 



[No. 280.] To Lady DoTugah 

laesday, June 28. 1814. 

Ladies, who could forget a friend for such poor crea- 
tures as the Bourbons, can hardly be expected to have 
remembered him during the late Imperial proceedings, and 
therefore I have very quietly made up my mind to your 
being (as Lord Moira says) "oblivious^ of me for the last 
three weeks ; but now that these royal persons are gone, 
and it is the opinion of the Morning Chronicle that we 
should all " return to reason and reflection," I beg leave to 
call your attention to a certain wn-royal person in Derby- 
shire, who is exceedingly anxious to hear all you can tell 
^{m aboul^every single soul that has figured away since 
he left you, from the Emperor of Russia down to Paul 
Methuen and the Prince Regent. Seriously, I know that 
you are the very centre of chit-chat ; that you have the 
first bloom and blossom of every good story that's going ; 
and I shall take it very unkind of you, if you do not share 
some of your treasures with me. Even an old cast-off 
report, or u thread-bare letter from Elba, is as pretty a 

present as you can make to a country acquaintance* 

c 3 



L 



22 LETTERS. tiETAT. 35. 

Talking of presents, my dear Bessy was quite delighted 
with the 'very beautiful things you all sent her; and I 
brought down at the same time a cap and frock for the 
forthcoming babe from Mrs. Dalton, which quite crowned 
the offerings. I never came back to her so richly laden 
before. The Atkinsons are come on a visit to their 
brother-in-law in this neighbourhood, and invaded our 
territories in full force the other day. I had long ago 
rather imprudently told Bessy what old Joe had said to 
dissuade me from marrying her, and it had dwelt so upon 
her mind, that she burst into tears upon meeting him. 
However, she soon recovered, and got on, I think, very 
well with them. I am sorry not to be able to go to them 
for a day or two, but I cannot think of leaving her just 
now. ♦ • ♦ Such family minutisB as I bore you with ! 
but it is what is uppermost just now, for I feel deeply 
anxious about her, and I know you will not laugh at it. 
These fine days are very favourable to poetry. I have my 
chair and my manuscript book in the garden, and stay out 
whole hours. I am quite sure, from the more ** genial 
current" of thought I feel in sununer, that the warm sun 
of Southern France would suit me exactly. 

I send you back the document you were so good as to 
take so much trouble about ; and as there seems to be but 
one step more to the eleven pounds for the poor sailor, I 
know you will take it cheerfully for him. 

A kiss to bold Barbara. Ever yours affectionately, 

T. Moore. 



1814.] LETTERS. 2,5 

I No. 281 J To Miss Godfrey/. 

Mayfield, 1814. 

I ought to have thanked yon both much sooner for yom 
very cnKvening pair of letters. In my absence from all 
your fine JjonAonfiteSy I ask no better festival than one of 
these letters of an eyening^ and they have as illuminating 
an effect (upon our faces at least) as a despatch from Lord 
Wellington has among you* I assure you Bessy robs h^ 
hands with as much glee as I do when she sees your seal, 
and says, ** Now for a nice letter from Lady D. and Miss 
Godfrey," so that you are very much mistaken when you 
think that Friendship does not thrive in a cottage as well 
as Love ; and I only wish you were near me, that you 
might see how pleasantly they would go together, and be, 
**like Juno*s swans, coupled and inseparable.'' I have had 
a great nimiber of letters lately from Lord Byron, 

By the bye, how is the Giaour liked ? and how does 

Rogers seem to bear the review of Columbus ? It is in 

many parts most insidiously done, and the accusing him of 

haste is really too impudent a humbug, when they and all 

the world know so entirely to the contrary. I am very glad 

to hear that I am in such high favour with that Begum of lite^ 

rature, Madame de Stael. Rogers has told me much more 

to the same purpose : that she says ** she has a passion 

for my poetry," &c. &c I should like very much to see her, 

though you know how shy I am of this kind of animal, 

and that Goldsmith's young Marlow is not more afraid of a 

modest woman than I am of a learned one. However, as 

I am told she is good-natured, and too much of the true 

Eoness to hurt a little terrier like me, I think I would 

venture within the reach of her claws. We have been 

vidted by some of the respectables in this neighbourhood, 

c 4 



24 LETTERS. l^.TAT. 35. 

as^ luckily^ there is no fashion ; though I have already met 
with a blooming old lady of sixty, who writes poems in 
imitation of me, about " Coming to bowers/' &c. &c. : al- 
together, though, we are very well off for quiet, and I 
hope will continue so. 

I send you herewith a little job to do for me. Will you 
take the trouble of sending John to Perry's for me with 
the inclosed draft ? It will be paid perhaps immediately, 
perhaps not till next day ; but, as soon as you get it, in- 
close it in a frank to me. It is not in payment for Chronicle 
squibs, for I have not once taken to my Brown studies 
since I left town ; but Perry discounted a bill on Power 
for me two or three weeks ago, and this is part of the 
amount. 

Ever, with best love to Lady D. (to whom I shall write 
aoon about her kindest of all kind offers of a lodging in 
Davies Street) and remembrances to sister Philly, yours, 
most truly, 

Thomas Moobe. 

CNo. 282.] To his Mot/ier. 

Majfield, Sunday, July 11. 1814. 

My dearest Mother, 
We feel it very long, indeed, since we heard anything 
from you, and though I grumble a little when a letter comes 
with an envelope on it that ou^ht to be franked, there is 
no money I pay with more pleasure than that which brings 
me news from home. Bessy and I are particularly anxious 
about poor Kate, and hope another day will not pass over 
without bringing us some intelligence. Poor Joe Atkinson 
is at last gone I Hi^ death was easy, and no one ever lived 
a more prosperous or kind-hearted life. Ever your own^ 

Tom. 



1814.] LETTERS* 25 

[No. 283-] From Mr. Jeffrey. 

Edinburgh, July 12. 1814. 
My dear Sir, 

After our correspondence in April, I hope you will 
neither be vexed nor surprised at my renewing my im- 
portunities now. You were then so kind as to say that, by 
the time another number was in contemplation, you ex- 
pected to be able to do something for me. Now I have 
just finished one number, which ought to have been finished 
six weeks ago, and am casting up all my ways and means 
to be able to go to press with another, if possible, by the 
beginning of September. I cannot help reckoning a little 
— I am afraid not quite a little — upon you in this emer- 
gency, and trouble you with this letter to ask Vhether 
I may not go on with my reckomng ? 

I have suffered a great deal for these last six weeks with 
toothache, or rheumatism, or ague, and have really been 
quite incapable of doing anything for myself, at a time 
when my friends were almost all prevented from doing 
anything for me. The publication of the present number 
has consequently been very distressingly retarded ; and it 
comes out after all, I fear, in a state which requires more 
indulgence than it is likely to meet with* I am extremely 
anxious to redeem a part of the time that has been thus 
lost, along, perhaps, with a little character, and therefore 
feel even more than my former solicitude about the success 
of my application to you. I am persuaded you will do 
what you conveniently can for me ; and I hope you do not 
imagine that I ever wish you to sacrifice your own con- 
venience to mine. For books or subjects, I leave the 
choice entirely to yourself; and whether you take to light, 
or to scholar-like articles, I do not think the hazard of 



26 LETTERS, [JEtat. 35, 

your interference with any of our other labourers is at all 
considerable. It may be well, however, that you should 
let me know your election as early as possible, that I may 
warn all other persons oiF the premises. For time, I have 
already said that I should like to have something by the 
beginning of September, but if you must have to the mid- 
dle, or even later, you shalL Now here is all the needful^ 
and I do not feel well enough to-day to go much beyond 
it. Have the goodness to let me know your determinatioii 
as soon after you have made it as possible ; but pray do not 
be precipitate in determining against me. Believe me 
always very truly and heartily yours, 

F. Jeffrey. 



[No. 284.] From Mr. Jeffrey. 

Edinburgh, July 23. 1814. 

My dear Sir, 
A thousand thanks for your kind letter, which I have 
this instant received. Both the books you mention are 
disengaged, and entirely at your service. I have never 
happened to see the work on the Fathers, but I have no 
doubt that you will handle it discreetly, and edify our 
readers prodigiously both in verse and in prose: do not 
omit the verses by any means. It is quite lawful, and 
sufficiently orthodox, to laugh at the Fathers: Middletcm 
settled that point of law, and it is now at rest. I am de- 
lighted to hear that Lord B. is again in the press. I had 
not heard anything of this new work except from the 
newspapers : is it still in Paynim land ? I long to see how 
he manages without beads and veils ; and I want him above 
all things to write a tragedy. I have quoted hiwi un* 
menHfuIly, you will find, in the last number, but what can 



1814.] LETTEB8. 27 

a man do who is deserted by all his friends^ and obliged to 
write against space by himself? I shall take caie that a 
Review is sent yon to-morrow. It is likely enon^ that 
your bookseller's copy (you see I take it for granted 
that you take one) may reach yon as soon^ but it will be a 
pledge of my zeal^ and a glory to make the Admiralty a 
oonvenience. I have been in the country for ten days, 
pruning roses and tying up carnations. Sydney Smith main- 
tains^ indeed^ that these are exotica which we only know 
among us by engravings, but if you will come before the 
end of next month, I undertake to convince you of his 
error. The best of it is that I have got rid of my tooth- 
ache, and hope to get rid of my indolence by and bye- 
Believe me ever very truly yours, 

F. Jeffbet. 

I have said nothing of the noble author whose merit you 
are so anxious to blazon ; but I hope you understand that 
you may take your pleasure of him. I never could read 
any of his lucubrations, but proipise to go through every 
word that you may quote. 



[No. 285.] To his Mother. 

Majfield Cottage, Monday night, 1814. 

My dearest Mother, 
As Bessy is by my side, this letter must all be about 
Barbara ; she bids me tell you she has got her a nice little 
stuff gown for the winter, in which she looks prettier than 
in anything she ever wore, and Bessy means to send you a 
pattern of the gown in my next letter, or rather in her 
own, for she means to write next time. Barbara now has 
got her mamma's phrase *^ Bird," and looks at me very sig- 
nificantly, as if she had discovered something wrong I had 



28 LETTERS, IJEtat. 35. 

done, and says " Oh, Bird ! " We have at last heard about 
Statia, she had been a little ill with her teeth, but was 
getting quite well agtun. Bessy looks forward to having 
her home with great impatience. 

We are going to a ball this evening, given by the son of 
a poet in this neighbourhood, I wish there was always 
such a vein of gold running beside the vein of poetry, for 
his father (Gisborne) will leave him fifteen thousand 
a year. Ever, my dearest mother, your own, 

Tom. 



[No. 286.] To his Motken 

Mayfield Cottage, Ashbourne, 
Thursday night, 1814. 

My dearest Mother, 

We last night went Into Ashbourne to see a phantas- 
magoria and automatons, and supped afterwards with our 
neighbours the Coopers. We found several cards of 
visitors on our return home; amongst others the Ark- 
wrights, who live in Sir B. Boothby's fine place. Ash* 
bourne Hall. I am glad he has called on me, for he was 
the person opposed to Lord Bimcliffe in the Nottingham 
election, and it shows he bears me no grudge for my zeal 
in his antagonist's cause. 

We are very glad to get back to our quiet little cottage, 
which has been a good deal improved since we left it, by 
the addition of the paling, anJ little Barbara runs about 
now without any fear. She is again very well, though I 
think still cutting more teeth. God bless my darling 
mother. Ever your own, 

Tom. 



J814.3 LETTERS* liV''^ ^ "^ 29.^ 

|.^^ '-';"• SIT 7 

[No. 287.] To his Mother. ^^/i^OE'S'^^ 

Majfleld Cottage, — 

My dearest Mother, 

I know it delights you to hear of instances of friend- 
ship towards your own Tom, and I have one now to tell 
you that gave myself very great pleasure. My friend 
Douglas (whom I have not, you know, seen more than 
twice in eight or nine years) has just been appointed 
admiral on the Jamaica station, and the first thing he did 
was to offer me the secretaryship. The salary is some- 
thing under five hundred a-year, but the perquisites, even 
in peace, are considerable, and in case of war it is a sure 
fortune. He also tells me he has a fine house and near one 
hundred acres of land allowed him, which are aU at my 
disposal I, of course, have declined it, as the emoluments 
in peace are not suflScient to counteract the risk of sea, 
health, and other objections; but the friendliness and 
courage of the offer (considering the interest by which 
Douglas must have got the appointment) can never be 
forgotten by me. 

We shall be all anxiety now, my dearest mother, to 
have accounts of your health, and your letters may be 
inclosed under cover to the person who franks this, 
** Hichard Arkwright, Esq., Ashbourne Hall, Derbyshire." 
Bessy will write to Ellen the next time. 

Have all sorts of comforts for yourself> my darling 
mother, and make my father draw upon me to furnish 
them: mind this. If we had you here we would nurse 
and make you well again ; and perhaps at the first appear- 
ance of spring you will let me run over for you; the 
change of air and scene would do you good, and we should 
til return to Ireland with you. Ever your own, 

Tom. 



30 LETTEBS. IMtax. 85. 

[Na 288.] To Miss Dalby, 

Tuesday, 1814. 

My dear Mary, 
Befisy infflsts upon my writing you a line, and 111 be 
generous enough to write you two ; indeed I have, at this 
moment, time for very little more. We were truly sorry 
at the cause of your not coming to us, and Bessy, who 
wants the smile of a friend about her just at this moment 
particularly, is grievously disappointed. However, come 
to us as so(m as you can, and 111 treasure up all my Lon- 
don recollections for you — ^^my prandngs with Mary 
Ann Skiddy," &c &c. If I could have foreseen that this 
show of emperors, &c. would have taken place so soon, I 
should certainly have waited for it; but the quiet of my 
cottage and my books, and my Bessy and my Barbara are 
so delightful to me after the racketting wits, dukes, and 
countesses I have been living with, that I but little regret 
the loss I have had, and can even read of the meeting be- 
tween those two old profligates, the Begent and Blucher 
(which affected some of our honest neighbours here eventc 
tears), without one sentimental wish to witness the inter- 
view. Barbara is improving beyond my expectations, and 
little Statia is tolerably welL Ever yours, with both our 

loves, 

T. Moore. 

Bessy seals this letter with the tassie she has got for you. 



[No. 289.] To Miss Dolby. 

Mayfieldy Monday moming, — 1814. 
My dear Mary, 
We have bolh been sad truants to you, but Bessy bids 
me say that as soon as Miss Lawrence leaves her, she wiU 



iftl4.] LETTEB8. 31 

wzite to 70U with a pnnctiiality that will astonish you. I 
suppose you have heard that we have been to Derby; and 
a very pleasant visit we had of it. I like the Strutts ex- 
ceedingly ; and it was not the least part of my gratification 
to find a very pretty natural girl of sixteen reading the 
ozth book of Virgil^ and not at all spoiled by it. This is 
Joseph Strutt's eldest ^1^ a very nice dancer as well as 
a classic^ and a poetess into the bargain. Indeed^ they 
have quite a nest of young poets in that family ; they meet 
every Sunday nighty and each brings a poem upon some 
subject; and I never was much more surprised than in 
looking over their collection. I do not think I wrote half 
so well when I was their age. Then they have fine piano- 
fortes^ magnificent organs^ splendid houses^ most excellent 
white soup, and are^ to crown all, right true Jacobins 
after my own heart ; so that I passed my time very agree- 
ably amongst them, and Bessy came away loaded with 
presents of rings, &n8, and bronze candlesticks. I have 
wound up my gaieties for the season by being steward to 
the Wellington Ball at Ashbourne, where I danced with 
your friend Annette, and had another opportunity of see- 
ing the pretty tremble of her eyelids in a poussette. 

We have had invitations without end to the Gells of 
Hopton, the Arkwrights, &c. &c. ; but I intend to go into 
a torpid state for the winter, and give no signs of life to 
any one of them. 

Miss Lawrence has gone about with us everywhere, and 
IB liked very much; she is, indeed^ a very sensible^ pleas- 

We have not heard ^ly thing of your little Statia, which 
makes us very uneasy ; but Barbara is in high bloom, and 
has not (orgot Coopsh. Ever yours^ my dear Mary^ 

Thomas Moo&e. 



32 LETTERS. [iETAT. 3S 

[Na 290.] To his Mother. 

Dpnington, Fiidav, Aug. 1814. 
My dearest Mother, 

I have been to the Derby ball and races on my way 
hither, and met shoals of my fine friends. The Duke of 
Devonshire lias asked me to pass some time with him next 
week at Chatsworth, to meet the Harringtons, &c. &c. I 
don't know whether I shall go. I have been lucky enough 
to be brought on hither by an old acquaintance of mine 
in his curricle, and, instead of going to the Turk's Head 
Inn at Donington, I am very comfortably situated at his 
house, within a mile and a half of the Park. I left Bessy 
getting on very welL 

I got my father's letter. Best love to him, from liis and 

yours ever, 

Tom. 

I have heard from Lady Charlotte Fitzgerald. She 
wishes to tempt me into Devonshire ; tells me of a cottage 
near her, with two acres, and only twenty pounds a-ycar. 
But it is much too far off. 



[No. 291.] To his Mother. 

Mayfield, Thursday night, 1814. 
My dearest Mother, 
I fear I have been very remiss this week, but my trip 
to Donington put me out of all my regular ways. I found 
Bessy, on my return yesterday, doing as well as I could 
Expect, but her appetite is not come yet. She has been 
in the garden these two days. 

I believe! told you the Duke of Devonshire has asked 
me to pass a week at Chatsworth, to meet the Harring«> 



'si: 

id 

A? 

I 
■ 

I 

1/. ■ 



[WU.] LETTERS. 3$ 

ton's. I do not think I shall go, one requiring a man 
• servant at these great houses ; and, besides, I have some 
^' ■ business which demands my presence at home. 

I am grieved to find, my own darling mother, that 
your health is not so good as it ought to be. For God'a 
sake keep up your spirits, and be well and cheerful to 
receive all the dear strangers that I mean to introduce to 
you in spring. You may depend on us, please Heaven I 
Rogers is gone to France. Good bye. Ever your own, 

Tom. 



flfff 

* 






CNo. 292.] To Mr. Power. 

Aug. 1. 1814. 
My dear Sir, 

I have received both your letters, and am much deh'ghted 

by your kind assurances of unaltered, and I trust unalter^ 

able, friendship. There are, however, one or two things you 

have said, which I either do not imderstand quite right, or 

(if I do understand them right) am not quite satisfied with, 

and I am more and more convinced that the only way for 

me to get spotless out of the scrape is, by adhering to the 

resolution I made in town, and totally breaking the engage^ 

ment, I shall finish the set of twelve sacred songs, as I 

have begun them, but shall not take anything for them : 

they shall be a saintly work of supererogation, and a 

peace-offering to the bond in parting. All other matters 

you and I can talk over when you come here in your way 

to Ireland, which you must do, set out when you will, for 

let Bessy be up or down (and she is, I am sorry to say, still 

up) there can always be a shake down for you. Longman 

has communicated to me through Perry his readiness to treat 

on the basis of the three thousand guineas, but requests a 

VOL. II. D 



•4 LETT£Rfi* [^TAT. 35 

perofial beforehand : this I have refused. I shall have no 
ifs, Murray's two thousand without this distrustful stipu- 
lation is better than the three with it. I mean^ in a day or 
two^ to turn Car^nter's stomach hj a communication of 
these proposals. 

I send you the first verse of the glee (which I have suc- 
ceeded in beyond my hopes) and the duet : the following 
is the second verse of the duet. I have a third and 
fourth for it, which are under consideration. 

" When every tongue thy follies nam*d, 
I fled th' unwelcome story ; 
Or found in e'en the faults they blam*d, 

Some gleam of future glory. 
In e'en thy last, thy fatal fall, 

These arms would still have caught thee ; 
I could have died, to prove thee all 
My fancy first had thought thee. 
But go, deceiver ! go ; 
Some day, perhaps, thou'lt waken 
From pleasure's dream, to know 
The curse of hearts forsaken !" 

I begin to be in high good-humour with this nmnber, 
but I find I have a devilish deal to do to it yet to satisfy 
me in the words. Ever, my dear sir, yours most truly 
and cordially, 

Thomas Mooke. 

What do you think my landlord has had the conscience 
to ask for this little cabin ? a thousand guineas ; — to the 
no small amusement of the country gentlemen. 



[Not 293.] To Miss Dalby. 

Thursday, Aug. 18. 1814. 

My dear Mary, 
Another girl ! but no matter : Bessy is safe over it, and 
that's all I care for at present. This morning, at ten 



4614.3 LETTEB& 35 

miautes aA;er ten. Miss Olivia Byron Moore (that iB to be) 

opened her eyes on " this working-day world," and one of 

the first things Bessy thought of was a despatch to you 

upon the happy event. It is really such a weight off my 

mind, that I feel as if I had been delivered myself. 

Now, in a very few weeks, two or three, we shall be 

ready for you, and you positively must come and help me 

to get poor Bessy well and fat again. In about one 

week, I hope to see you at Donington. Ever yours, 

very sincerely, 

Thomas Moobe. 

Write to Bessy immediately. 



[No. 294.] To his Mother, 

Majfield, Sundaj eveniDg, 1814. 
My dearest Mother, 

Bessy is getting on as well as can be expected, and 
the little thing is as strong as a young lioness. I am 
taking advantage of this moment to go and read a little 
at the library at Donington, for an article I have promised 
Jeffrey to write for the next number of the Edinburgh 
Review. You'll see me very flatteringly mentioned in 
the Drakard I send you to-day. 

The Atkinsons are come back from Matlock, whither 
they went last week, and dined and slept at our friends 
the Coopers on their way : this was on Tuesday last, and, 
next morning, Bessy made a great effort and walked over 
to breakfast there : the next morning she produced Miss 
Olivia Byron Moore. I believe I told you Lord Byron 
is the godfather. 

I send this letter through young Joe, and wiU con- 
tinue to do so till old Joe returns ; you shall then have 

i> 2 



36 LETTERS. [iETAT. 35, 

them through him. God bless my own darling mother- 
Ever your own, 

Tom. 



[No. 295.] To E. T. DaltonyEsq. 

Sunday night 1814. 

My dear Dalton, 
I could not have two things to tell you more delightful 
in the telling than first, that Bessy is safe and well ; and 
second, that you and I shall meet in May. I only wish I 
could make ihepartie quarree by taking her with me; and 
indeed the first time she has expressed any regret at not 
accompanying me, was upon hearing that Mrs. Dalton w^as 
to be in London, for she is quite constant to the impres- 
sion that Olivia! s face and manner made upon her. I have 
had a letter from poor Tom Sheridan within these few 
days, and I told him in my answer, that he was one of the 
Tcry few fellows in this world who, I thought, might com- 
pare with me in the article of wives^ and you^ my dear 
Dalton, are another of this very few ; for to have a wife 
pretty as well as everything else she ought to he is a thing 
us men ought, mom and night, to bless God for. 

I am sorry I cannot put. on a long face and be grieved 
at what you tell me about the tumour ; but, besides that 
I am very sure it is like mine, and of no consequence, I 
look upon it to be the cause of your coming to London, 
and therefore cannot (as yet at least) feel very sorry 
about it. 

Tell Mrs. Dalton I think Adelaide a very pretty name, 
but that as I always value names according to what I feel 
for those who*«vear them, I have a strong suspicion that 
Olivia is, next to Bessy, the prettiest name in the whole 
circle of nomenclature, that therefore I think she was very 



1814.] LETTERS. 37 

wrong in not bestowing it upon the little child* Our last 
God-send is the weeest little thing that ever was produced ; 
something like the Countess of Hainault's children at th^ 
wax-work^ which came 360 at a time ; but she is thriving^ 
I believe, and the mother is doing wonderfully. 

I shall reserve all the multifarious things I have to com- 
municate till we meet ; more particularly as, having to go 
out early in the morning, I write this letter over night 
after a dish of spinach and eggs, and a pint of ale ; all 
(except the e^gs and ale) out of our own garden. So you 
must excuse the muzzlness you may have detected through- 
out this epistle, and believe me, in happy anticipation of 
our coming days together in London, ever sincerely and 
truly yours, 

T. MooRE. 

I hope to be in town about the first week in May, and 
if you could but contrive to blindfold Mrs. Dalton, and 
stop her ears till I arrive, I shall be very much obliged to 
you. 

[No. 296.] To his Mother. 

Aslibourne, Monday, — 1814. 
My dearest Mother, 

I congratulate you upon the certainty of peace, though 
I own I think the French shabby dogs for taking back 
the Bourbons, and returning to tlieir vomit so quietly. 

I find Lord Byron's being out of town was the reason 

of my father's last letter coming to me unfranked. We 

had yesterday a poor French prisoner of Ashbourne to dine 

with us, who was an officer of Buonaparte's guards. He 

damns the ** ingratitude" of his countrymen to Buonaparte, 

and says if he was in his army now he would stick by him 

i> 3 



L 



38 LETTERS. [£tat. 35. 

to the last. It has been from first to last a strange melo* 

drame^ and if it had not been so very bloody, would be 

very ridiculous. It is that mixture of the tra^cal and the 

farcical^ which poor wretched human nature exhibits so 

often. 

We are very anxious to hear from you, and hope you 

•till think of the delightful plan of coming to us. Ever 

your own, 

Tom. 



[No. 297.] From Lady Donegal. 

Tunbridge Wells, Aug. 30. 1814. 

We are all impatience and anxiety to hear something 
about Bessy, and I beg of you to let me have a line from 
you by the return of the post, if you can, to say how she 
is. — I need not add what our feelings are on the occasion.. 

Upon mature deliberation I cannot help feeling great 
regret that you have embarked as a reviewer. If you 
were a hard-headed, hard-hearted sort of man, like the 
rest of them, I should not care what you did. But let the 
person that you attack be ever so ridiculous, if you give 
him pain, you will be sorry for it. You may put your 
hand to the plough, but you will look back in spite of your- 
self. I shall say no more upon the subject : perhaps you 
may think I ought not to have said so much. 

We are now going on as usual, with the variety of Lord 
Cranley and his barouche occasionally, and with the 
expectation erf the Princess Sophia, who is coming here 
for a month. 

It must be confessed that the society of the place has 
degenerated since the days of our serenades. Those were 
4ays that can come but once in one's life. 



1811.] LETTEES. 39 

Now let US hear from you immediately, and ever belieye 

me yours most sincerely, &c, 

B. D. 



[No, 298.] From Mr, Jeffrey. 

Edinburgh, Aug. 31. 1^14. 
My dear Sir, 

I think it right to give you notice that I have actually 
gone to press with my new number of the Review; and 
that I shall have need of you, as soon as you can possibly 
come to my assistance. I believe I gave you to the 20th 
of September for both articles, but I hope to receive one 
of them, at least, before that time — the sooner certainly 
the more convenient for me ; but it is right and natural 
that you should study your own convenience chiefly, and I 
handsomely desire that you would ; but at all events let 
me know when I may expect you, and how much of you, 
that I may make my arrangements accordingly. He- 
member, however, that I certainly should not survive an 
absolute disappointment. Believe me always most faith- 
fully yours, 

F. Jeffrey. 

The death of Lara is exquisite ; the first canto a little 
heavy, and with an air of labour. Jaqueline is not ad- 
vantageously placed with that companion. I wish you 
would make Lord B. write a review. 

If you can get franks for your articles they will come 
quickest by post ; but they will be safe enough put up in 
strong paper, and addressed to me, by the malL I would not 
trust any other coach. If you send them by London, 
Cochrane and White, in Fleet Street, will forward them if 
you desire them. 

D 4 



40 LETTEBS. [iETAT. 3& 

[No. 299.J From Mr, Jeffrey. 

Edinburgh, Sept. 14. 1814. 

My dear Sir, 

I have just had the pleasure of receiving your letter 
and your packet, which, from my being two days in the 
country, came to my hand together. Your castigation of 
Lord T. is admirable, though far more merciful than I had 
expected, as are also your incartades on a certain great per- 
sonage. I suspect your heart is softer than you know of^ 
and you look upon that as extreme severity, which to 
harder fibred men is mere tickling. However, nothing can 
be more entertaining, or more cleverly written ; and if 
your taste for reviewing keep any proportion to your genius 
for it, I shall have many such packets from you. I cannot 
say that the task of a critic is altogether as animating as 
that of a poet, but there are ways of managing it that take 
away much of its irksomeness; and when you have acquired 
the freedom which a little use of our weapons will give you, 
I hope you will not find it very laborious, especially if you 
will gratify me by taking some subject on which more 
strength may be suitably put forth. Perhaps you will feel 
yourself happier in the society of the Fathers, though you 
will never understand what gratification this new vocation 
can give till you set about correcting some prevailing 
error, or laying down some original principle of taste or 
reasoning. It is something to think that at least fifty 
thousand people will read what you write in less than a 
month. We print now nearly 13,000 copies, and may 
reckon, I suppose, modestly on three or four readers of the 
popular articles in each copy : no prose preachers, 1 be- 
lieve, have so large an audience. 

It will do very well if I receive the Fathers about the 
20th, though we are far on with our printing. Lord T. is 




y^'V OP THH 



18H.1 I.ETXEB3. P/ ^ '' "« SIT 7' 

already in hand, and will go to about tliirteet>^ggiFGR^\^ 
thousand thanks for what you say of Lord B., though' 
must not subject me to the risk of a contumelious refusaL 
What I said to you about him was at least half in jest, and 
I cert^nly should never have had the presumption to make 
Buch a proposal directly to himself. There is no person 1 
have so great a desire to meet with. 

I have only one daughter yet, which I think is almost 
enough, when you consider that I was only married last 
October, but I earnestly wish all the children I may 
have to be of that sex : I have something of a natural an- 
tipathy to boys. Ever most truly yours, 

F. Jeffrey. 



CNo. 300.] From Mr. Jeffrey. 

Ilatton, Sept. 18. 1814. 

Ify dear Sir, 
I am not quite so rigorous a taskmaster as you seem to 
think me. I dare say your Saints w^ill be in good time if 
they are here by the 25th ; and if I were not afraid of re- 
laxing your zeal and exertions, I would add that if it would 
accommodate you materially, I believe I could make a shift 
to get through this number without them; my contribu- 
iions have come in rather better than I expected, and I am 
now at all events quite sure o{ quantity enough to fill up my 
pages ; so if you think you could finish the article more to 
your own satisfaction by keeping it a fortnight or three 
weeks longer on your hands, I shall try to get on without 
it for this time, and reckon upon having it to begin the 
next. The publication will not be very long postponed at 
this rate, for I intend, if possible, to publish another number 
by the middle of November, and consequently must go to 



42 LETTERS. [iETAT.35« 

press again before the middle of October. I am afraid I 
have l08t a day in answering your letter by being in thia 
place, where I pass a part of the summer in an old ruinous 
chateau, a few miles from Edinburgh, which I hope will one 
day be honoured with your inflection. 

I have a task to suggest to you, which in prudence I 
should have taken a leas hurried moment to recommend^ 
but I shall just mention it at present. What would you 
think of undertaking a review of Shmondfs Ligature of 
the South, and, without confining yourself to the book^ 
characterising the great poets of Italy, Spain, and Por- 
tugal ; and perhaps giving us the spirit of some of them in 
a free version of their most characteristic passages ? You 
shall have till April to do this, if you will undertake it ; 
and you need not make it more extensive or laborious than 
you feel you are bound. Tell me, at least, what you think 
of it ; and if you cannot, or rather will not do it yourself, 
tell me if you know anybody that can. 

Tell me, too, that you will come for a fortnight to 
Edinburgh early next winter, and see our primitive society 
here. It is but thirty hours travelling, and will at the 
least be something to laugh at in London, and to describe 
at Mayfield. We shall treat you very honourably, and let 
you do whatever you please. Ever most truly yours, 

F. Jeffret. 



[No. 301.] From Mr, Jeffrey. 

Edinburgh, Oct. 14. 1814. 

My dear Sir, 
I hope that you have, long ago, received our new 
number, and found but few faults in the printing of your 
article. I hope, too, that you like it in print nearly as wdl 



1814.] X£TTEB8. 43 

as I do ; for then you will set yourself with good will to 
the preparation of another, and not hate me for putting 
you in mind of your promise to put me in possession of 
your Fathars about the beginning of November. I hope 
that time will suit you ; take a week longer if you want 
it^ or send them a week sooner, if you can oblige me with- 
out putting yourself to any inconvenience. I tremble a 
little on casting up the number of attacks on the P. R. 
that occur in this number; however, I bespoke none of 
them^ and if testimonies come from the east and the west 
I cannot well help inserting them. However, the thing may 
be overdone I &ncy, and I shall admit no more for a while, 
unless they are witty and good humoured, like some that I 
wot of. 

Could you hunt me up a good smart German reviewer, 
do you think ; one who knows that literature thoroughly, 
without thinking it necessary to rave about it, and above 
all who can write a concise, vigorous, and striking style ? 
If he understood Russian and Polish so much the better. 
I want an account of the vernacular productions of these 
countries at the present day. 

Do not forget my humble petition and remonstrance 
about the Literature of the South, and let me know by 
and bye what determination you are to make on it. 

Is it true that Lord Byron is about to be married ? It 
would make him happier I have no doubt, but probably 
less poetical; better for him, and worse for us. Believe 
me, always most faithfully yours, 

P. Jeffrey. 

I inclose a shabby little bill on said number ; I have 
treated you this time very little better than an ordinary 
critic, just to ^ve you a notice of our misery. 



44 LETTERS. L^TAT. 35. 

[No. 302.] To Lady DonegaL 

Mayfield Cottage, Monday, Oct 25. 1814. 

When people go *' upon a tour " (aa I saw by the papers 
you did), I make it a rule never to write after them^ for it 
is ten to one that I don't hit them, and then there is so 
much ammunition lost. But now that I find you are 
settled in the old^on?;, Tunbridge Wells, have at you, my 
lady I I am afraid you will think my phraseology not 
much improved by my retirement, but as this is the sport- 
ing season, I naturally fall into some of the technicals of 
the art, and I know you will forgive me for making game 
of you, for once in my life. I must certainly, some time 
before I die, have a season with you at Tunbridge Wells, 
and conjure up a phantasmagoria of vanished hours ; in- 
deed, if ever you have seen a phantasmagoria, it is no bad 
emblem of one's pleasant recollections, for the objects 
brighten considerably as they get farther ofi^, and so it is 
with past joys ; and those of Tunbridge (though I dare say 
I thought but middlingly of them while they existed) have 
acquired a brilliancy in receding back into time, which 
flashed upon me with full force when I read the other day 
of the " Marchioness Dowager of Donegal going to Tun- 
bridge Wells." I most earnestly implore you both, that 
however you may take the liberty of forgetting me in 
other places, you will make it a point to remember me 
with aU your hearts and souls at Tunbridge, — that you 
will think of our serenade at Miss Berry's, — our dear 
quiet dinners at home, — our hearty laughs at the expense 
of some of the wise-ones of the party, — and (if your saint^ 
like heart does not feel remorse at the recollection) your 
own innocent and unconscious courtship of the widow for 
me. This last remembrance is a melancholy one. •* When 



1814.] LETTEBS. 45 

I consider (says Sir W. Temple) how many noble and 
esteemdble men, how many lovely and agreeable women^ I 
Iiave outlived among my acquiuntance and friends^ me- 
thinks it looks impertinent to be still alive." There are 
already three whom I (at least fancied I) loved, now cold 
in the earth ! 

*' Then jnrarm in love, now withering in the grave* 

But this is too sad, and perhaps part of it too foolish, to 
dwell upon ; and it was only this plaguy Tunbridge phan- 
tasmagoria that put it into my head, assisted, no doubt, by 
a little melancholy music I have been playing this evening. 
But to turn from the foolishly-loved that are dead, to the 
rationally and fondly-loved that are living. Mj Bessy and 
my little ones, you will be glad to hear, are quite well; and 
your little god-daughter (though far from pretty) is filling 
80 fast with intelligences, archnesses, and endearments, that 
she already begins to be " the light of her father s house." 
The other ( Anastasia) is still at nurse, and getting on very 
welL I have filled this letter so completely with senti- 
went (after a fashion) that I have no room left for news ; 
but as soon as you answer this, I will write a little more 
soberly and communicatively, and in the meantime tell 
you that, whenever I think of you and one or two others, 
I bless my stars that love has not been the only article I 
dealt in in my youth ; but that I have still on hand so 
much of that far less perishable commodity, friendship: 
and so with this tradesman's metaphor I shall conclude. 
Ever yours, 

T. M. 



46 LETTERS. [^TAT. 35. 

[No. 803.1 "^^ ^^^' ^ower» 

Oct 31. 1814. 

•**Ti8 gone — and for erer — the light we saw breaking, 
Like HeaTen*s first dawn o*er the sleep of the dead. 
When Man, from the slumber of ages awaking, 

Looked upward and bless'd the pure light-, ere it fled ! 
'Tis gone — and the gleams it has left of its burning 
But deepen the long night of bondage and mourning, 
That dark o*er the kingdom of earth is returning. 
And darkest of all, hapless Erin ! o'er thee. 

" For high was thj h(^>e, when that glory was darting 

Around thee through all the gross clouds of the world ; 
When Truth, from her fetters indignantly starting. 

At once, like a sun-burst her banner unfurl'd. 
Oh, never shall earth see a moment so splendid I 
Then, then, had one Hymn of Deliverance blended 
The tongues of all nations, how sweet had ascended 
The first note of Liberty, Eriu ! from thee. 

'* But shame on those tyrants who envied the bles^ng, 
And shame on the light race, unworthy its good, 
Who, at Death's reeking altar, like furies caressing 

The young hope of Freedom, baptiz'd it in blood I 
Then vanished for ever that fair, sunny vision. 

Which spite of the slavish, the cold he t's derision, 
Shall long be remember'd, pure, bright, and Elysian, 
As first it arose, my lost Erin ! on thee ! " 

At last, my dear sir, after several days twisting and 
turning, I have licked this young bear into shape, and a 
promising cub I am sure you will think it. It is bold 
enough ; but the strong blow I have aimed at the French 
in the last stanza makes up for everything. I am de- 
lighted to have written something to '' Savouma Deilish," 
which, though it may not supplant Campbell's words in 
singing y has stuff enough in it to bear some comparison in 
reading. I am not afraid now of the poetry of this num- 
ber, though I fear, with all your mildness and toleration, I 
shall not escape without a few curses on my delays and 



1814.] 'L£TT£Bii. 47 

changes. Talking of clianges, the burthen to the first 
Terse of " When first I met Thee " must, after all, be 
thus: 

** Find one whose love can glow 
Like hers, now k>6i for ever ! ** 

I have another hothcrer now in " Sweet Harp," but it is in 
fidr train. I am impatient to see the design from the 
Wellington song, and wish you would likewise let me 
have the list of the songs as Bennison has placed them. I 
wish those three^ the Wellington, Savouma, and Sweet 
Harp, to come at a tolerable distance from each other. 

Upon looking over Stevenson's manuscripts, I find he 
has left only two Sacred Melodies done, viz. *^ Mary Mag- 
dalene*' (a new setting), and '^ This World is all," which 
he has done very successfully. He was four or five days 
hammering away at *^ When faint beneath the folding 
Wings," and at last took it away unfinished. I am afraid 
I am too fastidious with him ; but certainly he neither did 
much himself (though working quite enough), nor suffered 
me to do anything. The rest of the things he left are 
merely airs for the Sacred Melodies, not one of which, I 
fear, I shall be able to make use of; indeed, without some 
striking melodies, I shall have but little hope of the suc- 
cess of that work. I have now only two selected ones, that 

are good. Ever yours, 

Thomas Moore. 



[No. 304.] To Lady Donegal, 

May field, Oct. 31. 1814. 

I have been lately very much teased, and have had my 
time much interrupted by a constant succession of visitors. 
First, I had Sir John Stevenson for near a fortnight. He 



48 LETTESS. [£tat. 

came upon business that might have been done in t1 
days^ and took the whole of that time in not doing it. Hj 
then wrote to his son to come to him here from Londoi 
and the next night changed his mind, and set off 
London himself, crossing the son, in a yery national anj 
characteristic manner, on the road ; and this son has evf 
mnce remained with us here, waiting filially for the father 
to come back again. By way of episode, Lambart and his 
wife (Stevenson's daughter), who were at Lord Talbot's in 
this neighbourhood, must needs come over to see the 
young gentleman (who is just returned from America), 
and we have had them too to entertain : in short, amongst 
them all, I have not had a minute of this whole month to 
myself, and the loss of so much time just now is really a 
most grievous calamity to me. Nor is the grievance over 
yet, for the son is still here, inflicting all his messroom 
intelligence upon me. But I trust in providence and the 
mail-coach for bringing Sir John down from London to- 
morrow, and then the day after, if there is one principle of 
shame* in an Irish bosom, they shall both pack out of my 
house for Ireland. All this makes me feel the horror of 
the incursions I should be exposed to (from my country- 
men in particular) if I lived what they call convaniant to 
London ; and though I shall certainly go near town when 
I am publishing, I shall as certainly, after that, keep at a 
respectful distance from it, — ia-t least till I see some chance 
of being made secretary of state in the new order of things 
that is approaching. By the bye, have you heard how 
soon the revolution is to take place ? You remember the 
story of a lady who told the Bang she had seen every fine 
sight except a coronation, which she wished to see exceed- 
ingly. The Lord keep us from a similar curiosity about 
revolutions ; but, for myself, I shall only say, I never saw 



•r: 

i) 
!l 



1814.] LETTEKS. 49 

one, and that's all. You must not take thid hnm-ing 

and ha-iDg too seriously though, for I really believe, after 
all, that a revolution is a bad sort of thing, and that the 
only part of the community which deserves to sufier its 
horrord, are those stupid rulers who might avert it but 
will not. Such profane talk as this under a secretary's 
cover is, to be sure, something like smu^ling French 
wares under a bishop's petticoat (if any such smu^Iing 
ever took place). But I think the inclosed head will be 
qidte sufficient to frighten away any prying eyes that 
miglit peep into the contents of my packet. Ah this head ! 
how cruel it is of you to take it away from me. I may 
almost apply, in my grief, Voltaire's lines upon sending 
back Frederic's portrait. 

" Je le rc^us avec tendresse, 
Je le renvoje avec doulenr ; 
Comme un amant, dans sa fureur, 
Kend le poitraut de sa nuutreflse." 

But mind, though I give it into your keeping, it is still 
miney and I know nothing in the world that would induce 
me to part with it, even in this way, but your command. 
For I think it a most admirable portrait of a most excellent 
and highly gifted person; therefore posterity must not 

lose it. 

Will you take the trouble of sending the packet I in- 
close ; and believe me, with my dearest Bessy's best regards, 
yours and my very dear Mary's attached and affectionate 

friend, 

Thomas Moore. 

I have not said a word of your kindness in asking us to 
be your guests ; but what can one say to such kindness ? 
I shall write again soon. 

VOL. II. E 



iO LSTTEBdk r^TAT. 35. 

[No. 305.] To his Mather. 

Majfield, Satordaj, Nov. 12. 1814. 

My dearest Mother, 

These "stwmy winds that blow-ow-ow" have very 
nearly frightened oat of my head the thoughts of taking 
little Baboo over to you, and I dare say I shall put up 
with their noises till spring, when certainly you shall have 
the advantage of at least one of the little vociferators. 
The young Olivia is getting on wonderfully, and is a very 
lively, pretty baby. 

I am goii^ to give a dinner on Monday to some of the 
gentlemen in the neighbourhood that Imve been civil to 
me, and then we mean to shut up and go into a torpid 
state, like the bears, for the winter. Bessy, is all bustle 
about this dinner, which is to be superfine. Sir Henry 
Fitzherbert dines with me ; he is a very good sort of man, 
who will be Lord St. Helen's. Bessy shall write to you 
next week the bill of fare, company, &c. 

My dearest father's last letter was written in such good 

spirits it quite delighted us : make him fat again. Ever 

your own, 

To>r, 

[No. 306.] To his Mother. 

Mayfield Cottage, 1814. 

My dearest Mother, 

I have but one moment for one word. I told you, I 

believe, that I was to give a dinner on Wednesday. 

It went off illustriously. Power sent me down a fine 

turbot and lobsters,, one of which was really nearly ad 

large as myself. All Ashbourne rings with the fame of 

this monster. - 



1814.] XETTEBS. 51 

I am writing so many letters by tliis inclosure, that I 
have not time for a word more ; but God bless my darling 
mother. Ever your own, 

Tom. 



[No. 307.] To Mr. Power. 

Saturday, Kot. 12. 1814. 
My dear Sir, 

I send you on the other side the two verses to " Forlorn** 
as (I trust in Providence and the Muse) they will be 
allowed to stand. " When first I met Thee" is altered; 
but as you have by this time engraved it off, it is unneces- 
sary to send you the alterations till I get the proofs. I fear 
very much lliere must be a new plate for it, but I request 
most earnestly that every extra expense I may be the 
cause of in this way, by either my fastidiousness or caprice 
(call it which you will), shall be set down to my account. 

I have had a letter from your brother, which I shall not 
know how to answer tiU I hear from you. He says you 
have written to him, that you have every reason to think I 
shall act upon the deed this year, and that therefore you 
request he will send over his last quarter. I have been 
some time threatening to ask you when the last bill I drew 
becomes due, as if I can take it up no other way, I must 
only draw upon you again to gain time, for certainly my 
decided wish is to be let off all tasks but the Sacred Melo- 
dies, and any little occasional things, for the remainder of 
the year, and that these shall be accepted (as I have al- 
ready explained) in lieu of the accommodation. Your name 
shall not be compromised by my renewal of the bill, as I 

B 2 



52 LETTEfiS. [iETAT. 35. 

will either get it cashed by a different hand^ or if you could 
pay the other firsts I will draw immediately after and give 
you the money, by which means you will be but a short 
time out of it. I could, of course, raise this sum with ease 
in other ways, but I wish not to be dependent upon any 
one but you, and upon you, I hope, I shall long have de- 
pendence of every kind. I think whenever we move from 
this it wiU be to the neighbourhood of town, for I feel in 
many ways the inconvenience of being away from you, and 
I am growing steady enough now, I think, to resist the 
temptations of London, when it is necessary. 

I hope the sketch arrived safe ; there was another delay 
in my letter of next morning; indeed we are obliged very 
often to trust to any chance messenger we can lay hold of. 
I fear the engra\dng will take a long time. I shall send 
you the second verse of " Sweet Harp" next time: it is 
done, and there will only be two verses out of four or five 
I wrote for it ; you had better print both. Stevenson, I 
suppose you know, has been appointed to the new Castle 
chapel, and is continually busy with the Viceroy making 
arrangements about it. Ever yours, 

T. MOOBE. 

1. 

** Oh ! whcre's the slave so lowly, 
Condemned to chains unholy, 

Who, could he burst 

His bonds at first, 
Would pine beneath them slowly P 
What soul, whose wrongs degrade it, 
Would wait till time decay'd it. 

When thus its wing 

At once may spring 
To the throne of Him who made it ? 

Farewell, Erin I farewell all 

Who live to weep our fall ! 



W14.] LETTERS, 53 

2. 

*' Less dear tbe laurel growing, 
Alive, untoueb'd and blowings 

Tban tbat whose braid 

Is.pluck'd to sbade 
Tbe brows witb victory glowing I 
We tread tbe land tbat bore us, 
Her green flag glitters o'er us, 

Tbe friends we've tried 

Are by our side. 
And the foes we bate before us ! 

Farewell, Erin ! farewell all 

TVho live to weep our fall !" 



[No. 308.] From Mr. Jeffrey. 

Edinburgh, Nov. 23. 1814. 

My dear Sir, 
The affairs of the Duke of Queensbury have kept our 
whole bar in such a state of hurry for these last ten days, 
that I have been obliged to neglect many things besides 
my thanks and acknowledgments to you. I was a little 
mortified at first when I found you had repented you of 
the verses, and would have written a letter of remonstrance 
and supplication if I had thought it would have been in 
time. Upon receiving the article, however, I was obliged 
to forgive you, both omissions and commissions. The 
caifdour, and learning, and sound sense of your observa- 
tions are, if possible, more delightful than their point and 
vivacity, especially when so combined. Notwithstanding 
your pamphlet on the Popery laws, which I saw some 
years ago with the greatest surprise and satisfaction, I 
own I was far from suspecting your familiarity with these 
recondite subjects, and am still afraid that this article has 
cost you more trouble than we are any way entitled to 
put you to. It has been printed several days, and extends, 

E 3 



54 LETTERS. [^TAT. 35. 

I am sorry to say, only to about thirteen pages. It is 
no small distinction, however, in our journal to be the 
author of a paper which every reader must wish longer. 

Pray think of something else for us. I now give you 
carte blanche as to subjects, and shall scarcely be surprised 
if you come out in next number with a sublime treatise 
on astronomy. I think it would cost you very little 
trouble to make pleasing reviews of books of travels, and 
have only to say that Dan Clarke's last ponderous tome 
is at your service ; though, as I have a sort of kindness 
for the said Dan, I hope you will not abuse him. I only 
throw out this hint, however, upon the supposition that 
you read such books for your amusement. I should be 
extremely sorry to set you upon such subjects as a task, and 
hope you have thought already of something more worthy. 

I am excessively flattered with the hope of seeing you 
one day in Edinburgh, though I am half afraid of expos- 
ing the defects of our society to so acute and difficult 
an observer. Come, however, from Mayfield, and after a 
good long abstinence from London, otherwise the falling 
off will be too sensible. I can insure you of being very 
much admired, and you must bear and excuse anything 
that may be asinine in our courtesies. Mrs. J. is extremely 
gratified by the notice you have taken of her, and has a 
great desire — mixed, however, with a little fear, as aU 
great desires are — to see you. Do think of this project, 
not merely as a thing to write about. Two days' journey 
will bring you here, and I hope you will let me have the 
honour of receiving you when you come. 

Tell me about Lord Byron and his bride, a,nd about 
excellent Rogers. I do not even know whether he has 
yet returned from the Continent. Do not think of de- 
serting us just after you have gone through the irksome- 



. 1814.] . LETTERS. . 55 

ness of learning our exercise. Moreover^ we <^nnot spare 
you. Ever most truly yours, 

F. Jeffrey* 



[No. 309.] To E. T. Daltony Esq. 

Saturday, Nov. 23. 1814. 
My dear Dalton, 
Your letter gave me great pleasure in many ways; 
but in none so much as in the tone of kindness and 
cordiality there is throughout it, which I assure you was 
quite comfortable to me, and I have great delight in 
thinking that, whenever we meet, it will be 

^^ With heart as warm, and brow as gaj, 
As if we parted yesterday." 

When that will be, however, I have as little idea as. your- 
self, for I am more and more convinced every day that 
this is the Only place for me^ — or, indeed, for any one; 
and therefore, unless you will show that you agree with 
me in opinion, and transplant yourself and your fair rose 
and rooQ-bud hither, I am irfiraid our meeting is rather 
distant. I am glad to hear that you are writing for the 
hearses ; they are the only decent actors going, and nothing 
pays here like your At/Tpo-drames. Do you recollect the 
use I made of Mathilda in the melodrame I began in 
Dublin, and do you think the plot would be of any use to 
you ? If you do, I will send it over. I shall be most: 
ready and happy to give you all the advice and criticism I 
can muster up, though I have never, I must say, thought 
myself any great hand as a critic, and least of aU as a 
critic in the drama^ for which, I strongly suspect, I have 
very little aptitude or ability. Not that any one can 

E 4 



66 LETTERS. [JEtat. 35. 

fonn any just opinion upoh this subject from the M. P., 
which was written quite as a hasty job, and therefore gave 
me nothing but sickness in my stomach from beginning to 
end ; but the point I think I should always fail in is a know- 
ledge of stage effect Lewis will be of great use to you 
in this way ; there is no man who (as they say) ^^ knows 
»Jie inside of a theatre" better than Lewis. 

I was very much flattered by Stevenson's favourable 
anticipation of my mudic ; but I know he has been dis- 
appointed. It was the first time I ever composed airs 
premeditatedly (for I need not tell yow that they have 
always come by chance) ; and the idea of a task disgusted 
and disabled me. Again I made an effort to compose for 
dramatic effect, which took me out of my own element, 
without naturalising me in any other. And, lastly, the 
harmonist and the actors inflicted such improvements on 
all the airs, that they have lost- even the few features of 
the parent which they brought into the world with them : 
an instance of this you will see in the way the simple 
ballad of "Oh Woman!" is set, — the barbarous pause 
upon the word " what" in the second line, &c. Some of 
these things I have altered for the detached edition of the 
songs, and Rhodes' fine air (which I am sure you delight 
in, and which I fancy I hear you singing with Mrs. Dalton) 
will be arranged for four voices, which is the way I always 
intended it, as much more rich and perfect, but the scene 
where it was introduced would not allow of it. 

Pray tell Mrs. Dalton that she is not to lose her duet 
by the theft I have made of it for the finale : it was little 
noticed on the stage, and as the finale will not be printed 
singly, it has not lost much of its gloss by the exposure ; 
besides, if it even had been faded a little, the other words 



I$.14.] LETTERS. 57 

and Aer name would bring it back to life and freshness 
again. 

You will be glad, I know, to hear that I am employed 
most resolutely and devotedly upon a long poem, which 
must decide for me whether my name is to be on any of 
those medallions which the swans of the temple of fame 
(as Ariosto tells us) pick up with their bills from the stream 
of oblivion. The subject is one of Bogers's suggesting, 
and so far I am lucky y for it quite enchants me; and if 
what old Dionysius the critic says be true, that it is 
impossible to write disagreeably upon agreeable subjects, 
I am not without hopes that I shall do something which 
will not disgrace me. 

I think, early in this next year, I shall have a little 
money, and if you will send me over an account of some 
of your minor debts, I will try and extinguish them: 
this sounds very magnificent, but it is only very slaw 
justice. 

Best regards to Mrs. Dalton, and a kiss to the dear 
little child (which I appoint her as my proxy to give), 
and believe me, dearest Dalton, sincerely your attached 
friend, 

Thomas Moore. 



[Xo. 310.] To Messrs. Longman Sf Co. 

London, Dec. 17. 1814. 
Dear Sirs, 

I have taken our conversation of yesterday into consider- 
ation, and the following are the terms which I propose : 
** Upon my ^ving into your hands a poem of the length 
of Bokeby, I am to receive frpm you the sum of 3000/." 
If you agree to this proposal, I am perfectly ready to close 



68 IrETTEM L^fiT^T. VL 

with you definitivelj^ and have the honour to be^ gentle- 
men^ your very obliged and humble servant^ 

Thomas Moore. 

I beg to stipulate that the few songs which I may intro- 
duce in this work shall be considered as reserved for my 
own setting. 



[No. 311.] Copy of Terms written to Mr. Moore. 

"That upon your giving into our hands a po«nof yours 
of the length of Rokeby, you shall receive from us the sum 
of SOOOl We also agree to the stipulation, that the few 
songs which you may introduce into the work shall be con- 
sidered as reserved for your own setting." 



[No. 312.] To his Mother. 

Mayficld Cottage, Wednesday, 1814. 

My dearest Mother, 
Here I am, returned in safety, after a most lucky visit 
to town. I received a sum from Bermuda, quite unex- 
pectedly, which my friend Woolriche (who is returned 
and was with me) insisted upon my instantly delivering 
up into his hands, and he purchased for me five hundred 
pounds stock ; so that I am now a stockholder, and, as this 
next year I shall be enabled to increase the deposit consi- 
derably, I look forward most sanguinely to being a rich 
old fellow. My other piece of good-luck was concluding 
definitively a bargain with the LongmanSy whereby, upon 
my delivering into their hands a poem of the length of 
Rokeby, I am to receive from them three thousand pounds ! 
What do you. think of that, my darling mother? The 



1814.] JLETTEEff 59 

poem is not, however, to be out till this time twelvemontlL 
I have only time to give you a skeleton of my transactions, 
but my next letter this week shall be fuller. Love to my 
dearest father and KelL Ever your own, 

Tom. 



[No. 313.] To his Mother. 

Thursday, 1814. 

My dearest Mother, 

We were delighted beyond anything last night to hear 
of dear Kate's safe recovery. Long life and happiness 
to both mother and child ! Give my best love and con- 
gratulations to the whole establishment. 

So the wise persons in Dublin believe, upon the credit 
of the Morning Post, that there is to be an impeachment of 
Lord Byron ! — that would be too ridiculous. 

My Drakard's paper of last Sunday has been mislaid 
by Mr. Cooper, but you have no loss. There was a sort of 
criticism upon my early poems in it, trying to be very 
severe, but calling my fancy delightful, my Irish songs 
very beautiful, &c. Nothing shows me where I stand 
more than the quantity of shots there are aimed at me. 

I wish I could send you Himt's Feast of the Poets, 
just re-published, where I am one of the four admitted to 
dine with Apollo ; the other three, Scott, Campbell, and 
Southey. Rogers, very unfairly, is only " asked to tea." 
lam particularly flattered by praise from Hunt, because he 
is one of the most honest and candid men I know. Ever 
yours, my darling mother, 

Tom. 



60 LETTEBS. [£tat. 35. 



[No. 314.] To his Mother, 

Majfield Cottage, Tuesday, 1815. 

My dearest Mother, 

I have just received my father's letter, and cannot tell 
you how it grieves me to hear so bad an account of your 
healtL If you think, my darling mother, it would be any 
comfort for me to run over and nurse you for awhile 
myself, say but the word, and nothing shall prevent me. 
But I trust it is only the fatigue of your attendance on 
my dearest father, and that, with Ellen's care of you, you 
will soon come about again. We have a contrivance for 
keeping the fe6t warm at night — a tin bottle, pretty large, 
with a screw at one end to keep in the hot water, which 
we often wish we could send over to you. But I think 
by describing it to a brazier, he could make it, and there 
is nothing, I am sure, would be of more service to you ; 
have it made larger in circumference than a bottle, and 
about a foot and a half long, and you must cover it with 
flannel, or put it into a woollen stocking; otherwise it is too 
hot for the feet, the water of course to be put in boiling. 
Do take care of yourself, my own dearest mother, and, 
above all, keep up your spirits. 

The Duke of Devonshire has just passed through here, 
and has invited us to Chatsworth ; I shall go for a day or 
two, certainly. Poor Anastasia has been very ill, but she is 
now getting much better. Ever your own, 

Tom. 



1815.3 LETTEB8. 




[No. 315.] To his Mother. 

Majfield, Monday morning. 

My dearest Mother^ 

I am just setting off for the Duke of Devonshire's, from 
which I shall write to you more fully. I have had some 
little trouble to rig myself out, as the coat my London 
tailor sent me down did not fit me, and I have been obliged 
to have an Ashbourne bungler at me. 

There are assembled there the Morpeths, the Boring- 
dons, the Jerseys, the Harrowbys, all lords and ladies, 
and I shall be, I dare say, the only common rascal amongst 
them. 

Anastasia is quite well, and Bessy is pretty welL • The 

Coopers, two of them, stay with her while I am awajr. 

Ever darling mother's own, 

Tom. 

[Ka 316.] To Ms Mother. 

Chatsworth, Jan. 25. 1815. 
My dearest Mother, 
I snatch a moment from the whirl of lords and ladies I 
am in here, to write a scrambling line or two to you : they 
are all chattering at this moment about me, dukes« coun- 
tesses, &C. &c It is to be sure a most princely establish- 
ment, and the following are the company that sat down 
the first day I came: Lord and Lady Harrowby and 
their daughter (he is a Minister, you know) ; Lord and 
Lady Jersey, Lord and Lady Boringdon, Lord and Lady 
Leveson Gower, Lord and Lady Morpeth, Lord and Lady 
Cowper, Lord Kinnaird, the Duke himself, and the Poet 
jiiyself, with one or two more inferior personages. I could 



62 LXXTESfl. [iETAT. 35# 

have wished Bessy were here, but that I know she would 
not have been comfortable in it. She does not like any 
strangers, and least of all would she like such grand and 
mighty strangers as are assembled here. 

I hope, my own dear mother, I shall find a letter at h(»ne 
from you with better accounts than my £&ther gaye us in 
his last. Ever your own, 

Tom. 



[No. 317 To his Mather. 

Jan. 26. 1815. 
My dearest Mother, 

My father's last letter would have made us very tm- 
bappy indeed, if we had not the pleasing thought that by 
that time you had received the intelligence of Lord Mul- 
grave's letter, and were lightened at least of half your 
sorrow ; indeed, my darling mother, I am quite ashamed 
of the little resolution you seem to have shown upon this 
occurrence ; it was an event / have been expecting for 
years, and which I know you yourselves were hourly appre- 
hensive of; therefore, instead of looking upon it as such 
an overwhelming thunderclap, you ought to thank Pro- 
vidence for having let you enjoy it so long, and for having 
deferred the loss till I was in a situation (which, thank God! 
I am now) to keep you comfortably without it. I venture 
to say " comfortably," because I do think (when the ex- 
penses of that house, and the et-ceteras which always attend 
an establishment are deducted), you will manage to live as 
well upon your 200/. a-year, as you did then upon your 
3S0/., which I suppose was the utmost the place alt(^eth^ 
was worth. Surely, my dear mother, the stroke was just 
as heavy to k^ as to.you, for I trust we have no separate 



Ur^O LETTERS^ 63 

interests, but share clouds and sunshine equally together; 
yet you would haye seen no gloom in us — nothing like it; 
we inetantly made up our minds to the reduction and 
ecoiKmiy that would be necessary, and felt nothing but 
gratitude to Heav^i for being able to do so well; and this, 
my sweet mother, is the temper of mind in which you 
should take it. If you knew the hundreds of poor clerks 
that haye been laid low in the prc^ess of this retrench- 
ment that is going on, and who have no means in the world 
ef supporting their funilies, you would bless our lot, in- 
stead of yielding to such sinful despondency about it. For 
tayfather^s sake (who is by no means as stout himself as 
he ought to be) you ought to summon up your spirits, and 
make the best and the brightest of it. 

Let him draw upon Power at two months for whatever 
he may want for the barrack money, and when the rent 
comes due in March, T^e shall take care of it. Ever, my 
dearest mother, your own affectionate, 

Tom. 



[No. 318.] To Mr. Power. 

Sunday night, Jan. 31. 1815. 
My dear Sir, 
I am just returned from Chatsworth, where I have 
passed a very delightful time, with many stings of con- 
science, however, at my being obliged to leave the proofs 
and sketch umioticed. With respect to the lattei*y however, 
I was in hopes I should be able to prevail upon either Lady 
Cowper or Lady Boringdon (two very tasteful artists) 
to give me a design for it ; but they promised from day to 
day, and were either unwilling or unable to perform it at 
last. Lady Cowper, indeed, promised to se nd mie a sketch 



64 LETTEB& [iETAT. 35. 

of it^ but we must not wait for hen Wbat do you mean 
to do about it ? I think the best way is to let the man 
sketch the Leprechaun somewhat like what it was in the last 
you sent me, but without the cobbler's implements ; and as 
there is so little time to spare, you need not send it me 
again. 

You cannot imagine what a sensation the Prince's song 
excited at Chatsworth.* It was in vain to guard your pro* 
perty; they had it sung and repeated over so often that 
they all took copies of it, and I dare say, in the course of 
next week, there will not be a Whig lord or lady in Eng- 
land who will not be in possession of it. Ever, my dear 
sir, yours most truly and penitently, 

Thomas Moobe. 



[No. 319.] To Mr. Power. 

1815. 

My dear Sir, 

I did not get your parcel till too late last night to return 
the proofs by this morning's mail, and now I believe to- 
night's Pickford will take them as soon to you as the 
mid-day coach. On Tuesday morning I intend to try my 
new franker in Lord Bathurst's office, and send you 
another Sacred -Melody. I think I can promise to make 
up twelve for you before the end of March, but I am 
decidedly of opinion we ought to go on till we have 
twenty-four, or at least eighteen good ones for the first 
number : you may depend upon my despatching them as 
quick as possible. I do not expect to get much in Gretry, 
and that is not at all the sort of music I want to rummage 
in. I want lessons of all kinds, old and new, — Bach^ 

• 

* (( When first I met thee warm and young," &c. 



1815.] LETTERS. 65 

Schubert, Kozeluch, &c. &c., icere rubbish as to price 
(but valuable for our purpose), which, with a little in- 
dustry, might be collected for a trifle. I know I could do 
a great deal with such materials, but French operas are 
the last things I should think of searching in for what I 
want. Whenever I go to town again, I certainly will go 
about with a few pounds in my pocket, and do the job 
myself. 

We were in much anxiety at not hearing from you for 
so long a time after the announcement of your little girl's 
escape of the crisis. I trust a little time will restore her 
perfectly ; youth soon picks up again. 

Pray look after the corrections of the second sheet 
yourself, and it need not be sent ag^n to me. Have the 
goodness to spell Leprechaun as Dr. Kelly spells it ; there 
ought, at all events, to be a c in it. 

I do not like to smuggle anything in without your 
perfect concurrence, but you will see I have put the date 
of 1789 as a note upon the Prince's song. This I think 
quite harmless, and it will prevent (if the idea of an equi- 
voque should occur to any one) the confusion of supposing 
it to be Mrs. Fitzherbert, or some deserted mistress, 
instead of Ireland. Leave it or not, however, just as you 
please. 

From your last letter I fear your spirits are not so good 
as I could wish them to be. If the expediting our Sacred 
Melodies can cheer you a little, you may depend on my 
netting my shoulders to it. Best regards from Bessy. 
Ever yours, 

T. M. 



VOL. II. r 



66 LBTTEB8. [^tat. 35. 



[No. 320.] To his Mother, 

Wednesdaj night, Feb. 1. 1815. 

My dearest Mother, 
I meant to have written again from Chatsworth, but we 
got up so late> and the day was so soon over in various 
little occupations, that I could not find a minute except 
for a letter or two I had to write upon business, and I 
knew you would forgive me. My time was very pleasantly 
passed there indeed, and it required some resolution to 
break away from the pressings and remonstrances em- 
ployed to keep me there longer. Upon my return, I 
found my dearest father's letter, and it delighted us both 
to hear that you were even a little better. But indeed, 
my darling mother, you have no right whatever to yield 
to low spirits: your children all well and happy, and 
loving you with all their hearts and souls; and though 
for a time absent from you, looking forward to being very 
speedily about you, and showing you how fondly and per- 
fectly they love you. All this ought to give sunshine to 
your heart, my dearest mother, and keep away everything 
like depression or despondency. I think it is very likely 
when we do go over to you, that we shall make a long 
visit of it, and, as Bessy is very cheerful, I think she and 
the little ones will be new life to you. Anastasia you 
shall certainly have early in the spring. Love to alU 
From your own 

Tom. 

Bessy is still very thin and weakly. 



1815.] Jj^TTERQ. 67 

[No. 321.] From Mr, Jeffrey. 

Edinburgh, Feb. 10. 1815. 

M.J dear Moore, 

I ought to have written to you long ago, to have thanked 
you for all your kindness, and for the hope you held out 
of letting us see you here ; but I have lately taken an 
extraordinary fit of zeal and diligence in my profession, 
and have thought, or endeavoured at least to think, of 
nothing but law for these two months. I break my vow 
of fidelity, however, to thank you for your letter, which I 
have just received, and to request that you would assure 
your friend that Peake is entirely at his service, and that 
I shall be extremely glad to receive his article at the price 
he mentions. I hope it will not be much later, as I hope 
by that time to be well on with my new number. I am 
extremely anxious to hear of your poem ; which, I hope, 
is to resemble Eokeby in nothing but length. When may 
we expect to see it ? 

I shall be delighted to hear all good things of Lord 
Byron. 

I am not quite sure that I may not make a little burst 
to Paris this spring ; and, at all events, I think I must 
be in Ijondon. Is there any hope of our meeting in either 
of those latitudes in April ? Ever most truly yours, 

F. Jeffrey. 



[No. 322.] To Miss Godfrey. 

"Wednesday evening, March, 1815. 

Oh for some of those ways of coming together that 
they have in the fairy-tales, — wishing-caps, mirrors, flying 

F 2 



€8 LETTEBS. [£tat. 35. 

dragons^ anything but this vile intercommunication of pen ' . 
and ink. I am afraid we shall never get properli/ into it ; \. 
and, whenever I get a letter from either of you, it makes 
me regret my own laziness in this way most bitterly, as I 
feel you only want *' stirring up^ now and then, like those i . 
other noble females, the lionesses at the Tower (no dis- . " 
paragement) to make you (as Bottom says) " roar an 
'twere a nightingale." Whether you like this simile or 
not, you really are worth twenty nightingales to me in 
my solitude, and a letter from you makes me eat, drink, 
and sleep as comfortably again ; not that I do any one of 
those things over it, but, without any flattery, it sweetens 
them all to me. I am as busy as a bee, and I hope too, 
like him, among flowers. I feel that I improve as I go 
on, and I hope to come out in full blow with the Michael- 
mas daisy, — not to publish, you know, but to be finished. 
I was a good deal surprised at yoie, who are so very hard 
to please, speaking so leniently of Scott's Lord of the 
Isles : it is wretched stuff, the bellman all over. I'll tell 
you what happened to me about it, to give you an idea of 
what it is to correspond conJidentiaUy with a Jirm. In 
writing to Longman the other day, I said, ^^ Between you 
and me^ I don't much like Scott's poem," and I had an 
answer back, *^ We are very sorry you do not like Mr. 
Scott's book. Longman, Hurst, Orme, Bees, Brown," &c. 
What do you think of this for a ^' between you and mef^* 
I think there are strong symptoms of the world's being 
about to get just as mad as ever, — the riots. Lord Castle- 
reagh. Sir Frederick Flood, and Buonaparte ! What the 
latter has done will be thought madness if it fails ; but it 
is just the same sort of thing that has made heroes from ( 

the beginning of the world ; success makes all the differ- 1 

epoe between a madman and a hero. 



1813.] LETTERS. 69 

Bessy is^ I hope, getting a little stouter. The little 
things eat like cormorants, and I am afraid so do il There 
are two things I envy you in London, — Miss O'Neil and 
your newspaper at breakfast ; all the rest I can do without 
manfully. Rogers has written me a long letter from 
Venice, all about gondolas. Best love to my dear Lady 
Donegal. Ever yours, 

Thomas Moobe. 



[No. 3Sd.] To his Mother. 

Majfield, Saturday, 1815. 

My dearest Mother, 
You are prepared by my letter of yesterday for the sad 
news I have to tell you now. The poor baby is dead*; 
she died yesterday morning at five o'clock. Poor Bessy is 
very wretched, and I fear it will sink very deep into her 
mind ; but she makes efforts to overcome the feeling, and 
goes on with all her duties and attentions to us all as usuaL 
It was with difficulty I could get her away from her little 
dead baby, and then only under a promise she should see 
it again last night. You know, of course, we had it nursed 
at a cottage near us. As soon as it was dark she and I 
walked there ; it affected her very much of course, but she 
seemed a good deal soothed by finding it still so sweet, and 
looking so pretty and unaltered : she wants to see it again 
to-night, but this I have forbidden, as it will necessarily be 
a good deal changed, and I should like her impression of 
last night to remain. I rather think, my darling mother, 
this event will bring us all together sooner than I first in- 

* Olivia Byron. 
r 3 



70 LBTTEKS. [iETAT. 35* 

tended^ as the change and jour kindnesa will enliven poor 
Bessy's mind. Ever your own^ 

Tom. 



[No. 324.] To Lady DonegdL 

Majfield, Monday, March 27. 1815. 

You have seen by the newspapers that we have lost our 
poor little Olivia. There could not be a healthier or 
livelier child than she was, but the attack was sudden^ and, 
after a whole day of convuHons, the poor thing died. My 
chief feeling has, of course, been for Bessy, who always 
suffers much more than she shows ; and whose health, I 
fear, is paying for the effort she made to bear the losa 
tranquilly. I mean, however, as soon as the fine weather 
comes, to take her over to my mother, who is also in a bad 
state of health, and pining to see us all : a few months 
together will do them both good : and I will say for them, 
they are as dear a mother and wife as any man could wish 
to see together. 

What do you think now of my supernatural friend, the 
emperor ? If ever tyrant deserved to be worshipped, it is 
he : Milton's Satan is nothing to him for portentous mag- 
nificence — ^for sublimity of mischief 1 If that account in the 
papers be true, of his driving down in his carriage like 
lightning towards the royal army embattled against him, 
bare-headed, unguarded, in all the confidence of irre- 
sistibility — it is a fact far sublimer than any that fiction 
has ever invented, and I am not at all surprised at the 
dumb-founded fascination that seizes people at such daring. 
For my part, I could have fancied that Fate herself was in 
that carriage. 

Good by: write soon: by your not mentioning my 



iai50 USTTEBS. 71 

^* Fathers" in the Edinburgh^ I take for granted jon cannot 
read it^ and ^^no blame to you,'' as we say in Ireland. 
Ever yours, 

T. M. 

What desperate weather I all owing to Buonaparte. 



[No. 326.] From Lady Donegal. 

Tttnbridge Wells, March 30. 1815. 

Your letter of the 27th followed us here this morning, 

and I lose not a moment in thanklDg you for it. We had 

seen by the papers that you had lost your little girl, and 

we know how much Bessy would regret her, and were 

anxious to know something of her, and of you ; but of all 

things in this world I think letters of condolence the most 

distressing and the most useless, for real friends will 

always feel for one under every disappointment and trial, 

and I was very sure that you would do our feelings justice 

on this occasion, as well as on all others, in which you are 

in any way concerned. Change of scene will do Bessy 

good, and your mother will forget all her aches when she 

has you all under her roof; yet I cannot help feeling regret 

that you are going to Ireland, for it is not a safe residence 

for you in any way, and to let you go, without intruding 

my wise cautions upon you, I cannot. I begin by most 

earnestly imploring you to be cautious about politics. 

You will be in the society of some whose heads and 

hearts are too wrong to have any influence with you, but 

their very society will do you harm, and the association of 

their names with yours would grieve me most sincerely. 

I beseech you to avoid them all, if you can, and if you 

cannot, be as guarded as in your nature lies, for the Irish 

democrats (if you choose I will call them Opposition) are 

V 4 



^^ LETTERS. |:^T„. 35. 

a dangerous, unprincipled set as ever existed, and are hdd 
in great disrepute by aU the respectable part of the Oppo- 
sition in this country. I put all my own courUy feelings 
out of the question, and do not let my prejudices in any 
way influence the advice I have the presumption to ^ve 
you. I do assure you that I am perfectly impartial, and I 
caU Mary as my witness. I am satisfied that you should 
go as far in your politics as Lord Lansdowne or Lord 
Grenville, but I wiU never give my consent to your going 
one step beyond them. As for Sir F. Burdett in this 
country, and Mr. B. and others I could name in Ireknd, 
I have a horror of them, and join heartily in the general 
feeling of contempt into which they have fallen. Once 
more I beg of you to keep clear of them. Another 
request I have to make of you is, not upon any account to 
be security for anybody, and I wish that you would give 
me a promise that you would not, for then I should feel 
sure of you. 

Tell me, as soon as you can, that you do not think me 
the greatest bore that ever hved, and that you pardon me 
for the freedom with which I speak to you, but I know no 
other bnguage when I am communicating with a friend. 
Fortunately for you my head will not let me write mor« 
to-day, for I have had one of my old nervous attacks 
lately, and am not yet quite recovered from its effects. 
3fery will write to you when we hear anything more of 
this fiend Buonaparte. * * • 

* • • • » 

* • • • « 

Poor Lady Shaftesbury is still at Paris. We have let 
our house in town for four months, and mean to pass our 
summer here. 

We were in great luck not to have begun our travels 



I 

\ 



18150 LETTERS. 73 

before all this business began in France. I think that 
a little gentle squeeze from Buonaparte would do Kogers 
no harm^ for he certainly was too partial to him^ and 
never forgave me for having rejoiced last year in his 
misfortunes^ and for having ventured to wish that a wing 
of the Temple* might be singed by the Kussians^ for 
which he heartily wished that Dublin might be burnt to 
the ground. 

We did read your review, and liked it very much, as did 
others, more to the purpose than ourselves. A Koman 
Catholic man-friend of ours, however, was very angry at 
it, but I do not think that he knew it was yours. 

Direct to us here for the next six months. We have 
let our house in town. Our best loves to Bessy and to 
yourself as usual. Ever truly yours, 

B. D. 

CNo. 326.] To Lady Donegal 

Monday, April 10. 1815. 

Your letter deserved a much speedier answer, both 
to thank you for the very kind anxiety you have expressed 
about me, and to set your heart at rest upon the subject of 
them. If there is anything in the world that I have been 
detesting and despising more than another for this long 
time past, it has been those very Dublin politicians whom 
you so fear I should associate with. I do not think a good 
cause was ever ruined by a more bigoted, brawling, and 
disgusting set of demagogues; and, though it be the 
religion of my fathers, I must say that much of this 
vile, vulgar spirit is to be traced to that wretched faith, 
which is again polluting Europe with Jesuitism and in- 
quisitions, and which of all the humBugs that have stulti- 

• Qy.Tuileries? 



74 LSTTEB& [£tat. 35. 

fied manldnd is the most narrow-minded and mischieyous ; 
80 much for the danger of my joining Messrs. O'Connel^ 
O'Donnel^ &c 

Now as to poor Bryan, whom I know you particularly 
allude to, I beUeve I need not tell you who know me a 
littU^ that not all his wrong-headedness, nor all the clamours 
of the world against him, could make me guilty of one 
minute's coldness towards a man who has shown such 
genuine, hearty, and affectionate interest about me and 
mine. He is, I own, a blunder-headed politician; but, 
luckily both for himself and me, he is no longer a poli- 
tician, for he has split with the Catholic board for ever. 
I had almost forgot the ^* giving security." I do promise 
you ; and if any needy gentleman, presuming upon my. 
funded property, should venture to hint such a thing, I. 
will tell bim I have been sworn upon a hundred pound 
debenture, never to risk so dangerous a proceeding. Se- 
riously, though it is not very likely any one should ask 
me, I am aware of the danger there is in so committing 
one's self; and I only hope, most anxiously hope, that 
your warning does not proceed from any sad experience of 
your own. 

It is a hard thing that you, who like London, should find 
it necessary, or at least prudent, to quit it just now ; for I 
fear that is the case. For myself, I know I ought to pay 
before I talk of lending; however, I shall only say that my 
debentures, such as they are, are now and evermore most 
heartily at your service. 

T.M. 



1815.] LETTERS* 75 

[No. 327.] To Mr. Longman. 

Majfield Cottage, April 25. 1 815. 

My dear Sir, 

I hope to see you in town the beginning of next week. 
I had copied out fairly about 4000 lines of my work, for 
the purpose of submitting them to your perusal, as I pro- 
mised ; but, upon further consideration, I have changed my 
intention: for it has occurred to me that if you should 
happen not to be quite as much pleased with what I have 
done as I could wish, it might have the effect of dishearten- 
ing me for the execution of the remaining and most in- 
teresting part, so I shall take the liberty of withholding it 
&om your perusal till it is finished ; and then, I repeat, it 
shall be perfectly in your power to cancel our agreement, 
if the merits of the work should not meet your expecta- 
tion. It will consist altogether of at least 6000 lines, and 
as into every one of these I am throwing as much mind 
and polish as I am master of, the task is no trifling one. 
I mean, with your permission, to say in town that the 
work is finished; and merely withheld from publication on 
account of the lateness of the season : this I wish to do, 
in order to get rid of all the teazing wonderment of the 
literary quidnuncs at my being so long about it, &c.; 
and as the fiction is merely a poetic license, you will per- 
haps let it pass current for me ; indeed, in one sense, it 
is nearly true, as I have written almost the full quantiiy 
of verses I originally intended. 

I shall call upon you on Monday or Tuesday, and hope to 
find you and your firiends in perfect health Ever yours, 
my dear sir, very truly, 

Thomas Mooee. 



76 LETTERS. [JEtat. 35. 

[No. 32S.] To Mr. E. T. Dalton. 

Majfield Cottage, May 4. 1815. 

My dear Dalton^ 

I think I might complain a little in my turn now of not 
having received any answer to my letter; but I will be 
magnanimous (to say nothing of conscience), and forgive 
you for once. There were two or three things I omitted 
telling you in my last^ which you had expressed a wish to 
be informed about. My poem, imprimis, I am to get 
three thousand for it, not four, as that exaggerative father- 
in-law of yours proclaims. It is to be the length of 
Rokeby, measured out upon the counter in Paternoster 
Row ; and as to its merits, why, they are to be *^ of what 
colour it pleases God." Jeffrey says, in a letter I had from 
him lately, " I hope it will resemble Rokeby in nothing 
but length." As to your kind advice of putting the pro- 
duce in some funds, I mean to do so with whatever remains 
over and above the discharge of debts ; and as to the time of 
the poem's appearance, and the money's payment, I think^ 
between ourselves, it can hardly be till near this spring 
twelvemonth; for, as the article is to consist, per agree- 
ment, of at least five thousand lines, and there are but three 
thousand written, it can hardly be finished off, fit for de- 
livery, before that time, unless I am much more indus- 
trious than I have any prospect of being in that idlest of 
all pococurante places, Dublin. Here I get on most 
flourishingly ; it is, at this moment, while I write to you, but 
half-past nine, A. M., and we had done breakfast near an 
hour ago. This, I know, will appear to you about as 
true as the Courier, or a French bulletin, but you may 
depend upon the fact, however mai*vellous. 

Mrs. Wilmot's play got a most complete damning : the 



1815.] LETTERS. 77 

unfortunate epilogue was hardly spoken^ and not at all 
heard : indeed^ when the play is in the flames, the epilogue 
can scarcely escape singeing — tel maitrcy tel valet; and it 
ivas a most unlucky tail-piece to a damned drama. ** No, 
no; your gentle Inas will not do," was quite an echo to 
those cursed executioners in the pit; they must have taken 
it so. 

I want you most particularly to urge Stevenson in the 
various jobs he is not doing for Power; particularly the 
Sacred Melodies, and the air to ''The World has not a Joy 
to give." I have pledged myself to Power that your influ- 
ence will procure their speedy completion, and I am sure 
you will not falsify my assurance. I hope you have seen 
my first verse to your favourite "Ho sparso tante lagrime:" 
it goes beautifully to English words. 

Poor Bessy is still very weak, and my chief hope for the 
recovery of her strength now is sea-bathing, when we get 
to Ireland. Best regards to Mrs. D. Ever yours, 

T. MOOBE. 



txo. 329.] To Mr. Power. 

[Dublin], Tuesday, May 30. 1815. 
My dear Sir, 

I have made twenty attempts to write to you since our 
arrival (which was on last Friday night), and this is the 
third or fourth letter I have begun ; but you can have no 
idea of the whirl we are in ; all very flattering ; every- 
body in hysterics of joy to see us. 

What I write now chiefly for is to supply an omission 
in my last dispatch before leaving the cottage. I wish a 
design to be made of a Mary Magdaleney as beautiful as 
possible, from the words. 



78 LETTEKS. T-^TAT. 86. 

** Like Mary kneel, like Mary weep; 
* Love much,' and be forgiven." 

This I should like to be the chief and leading frontispiece 
of the work : it is such a mixture of the sacred and pro- 
fane as will be most characteristic of me, and may be made 
most tasteful and interesting. The other subject, and a 
very fine one, will be from the last Melody I sent you, 
" Sound the loud TimbreL** You may let the artist form 
his idea upon a comparison of my words with the text in 
Exodus^ chap. xv. verse 20., " And Miriam the pro- 
phetess," &C. &C. 

I write this actually on a dinner-table, among chatterers, 
drinkers, and all sorts of noise-makers ; but I thought it 
wrong to defer any longer. 

Best and warmest regards to Mrs. Power and our little 
friend Jane. Stevenson is almost free of his operatic 
labours, and means speedily to attack the Sacred Melodies. 
We have seen your brother, who again offered us his 
lodgings; but Richard Power has left us his house in 
Kildare Street, where we are in great comfort, and where 
you will direct to us. No. 7. Yours ever most cordially, 

Thomas Mooee. 



[No. 330.] From Mr. Jeffrey. 

Edinburgh, June 11. 1815. 
My dear Moore, 

As I do not see your poem yet announced, I am afraid 

you are still occupied in a more interesting way than with 

reviewals ; but I cannot help taking the chance, however 

desperate it may be, of your having an hour pr two to 

throw away on the baser avocation. I was shot in the 

eye witli a sky-rocket on the king's birthday, and have 



1815.] LETTEB8. 79 

been almost blind ever since ; which has thrown me back 
mrith all my preparationB^ and reduced me to such extre- 
mities in proTiding for the next number as must touch all 
Christian hearts with compassion. I forbear to suggest 
any subjects : a man like you must have his head full of 
theories and opinions to which it must be a relief to give 
expression ; and we are not difficult you know as to our 
choice of the occasions for bringing them forward. If you 
shoidd prefer amusing yourself with a particular book, you 
know far better than I do both what books will afford the 
xnost amusement^ and how it is best to be extracted. Do 
think whether anything can be done for me^ and let me 
know what has occurred to you. 

I have just got a set of Lord Byron's works, and read 
his Hebrew Melodies for the first time. There is rather 
a monotony in the subjects, but a sweetness of versification 
to which I know but one parallel, and a depth and force 
of feeling which, though indicated only by short sobs and 
glances, is here as marked and peculiar as in his greater 
pieces. I have heard nothing of him lately, but am now 
persuaded that he cannot be long idle. I cannot see to 
write any more. Believe me always most truly yours, 

F. Jeffrey. 



[No. 331.] To Mr. Dalton. 

Athassel Abbey, Cashel, Friday, 
Aug. 22. 1815. 

My dear Dalton, 

Bryan, as I suspected, will not stir, and Killamey is 

given up. If it were possible or me to wait your time, 

we could manage, I think, to achieve the business without 

him; but that's out of the question, and sincerely do I 



80 LETTERS. [^TAT.SCi 

regret that it is so; for I flatter myself Killamey has 
seldom had^ within its enchanted precincts^ two souls that 
would agree better in enjoyment of all its beauties, ily 
sister has been alarmingly ill since we came^ from a mis- 
carriage ; she is now much better ; but a sick house^ and 
a dull^ ugly country^ render our visit here rather a melan- 
choly proceeding, and I look with some impatience to next 
week for a release from it The only stimulants we have 
are the Shanavests^ who enter the houses here at noon- 
day for arms, and start out, by twenties and thirties, upon 
the tithe-proctors in the fields, stark naked, and smeared 
over with paint like Catabaros. The good people of Tip- 
perary will have a bloody winter of it. 

Lord Llandafifs is the only fine house in this neighbour- 
hood ; but it is one of those unfinished and never-to-be- 
finished places, which, as far as I can perceive, abound 
throughout Ireland. 

Bessy is all anxiety to hear about Mrs. Dalton ; there- 
fore pray let us have a bulletin of her progress immediately. 

The rector of this place has just passed the windows 
on a tithe-hunting expedition, with a large gun in his gig. 
This is one of the ministers of peace on earth ! Ever, my 
dearest Dalton, your faithful friend, 

Thomas Moore. 



[No. 332.] To Mr, Dalton. 

[Dublin], Wednesday, Sept. 13. 1815. 

My dear Dalton, 

Here I am still, kept on from day to day, watching 

alternately the weathercock and poor Barbara's pulse, and 

still undecided whether I shall sail alone or wait for her. 

She recovers strength so rapidly, that I dare say it will 



U5.] LETTERS. 81 

md in my staying the few days tLat Duggan prescribes as 
lecessary for her restoration ; but in such a state of doubt 
nd fidgettiness it would be impossible for me to enjoy any 



a;: 

acff 



' thinly even you and Beau-pare ; yet how lovely it must 
. be now ! 

In last Friday's Morning Chronicle there was the follow- 
^^^'^ ing paragraph, ^^ We have had so many and such incessant 
applications for the paper which contains the exquisite jVm- 
cTesprity entitled * Epistle from Tom Cribb,' &c., that we 
shall reprint it to-morrow." I knew that flash fun would 
tell in England, though it was all flash in the pan here * 
you were the only one of all I read it to, in the least up to 
its humour. 

That pathetic warrior, Mr. George Lidwill, sailed the 
day before yesterday for the Pistol Congress, to be holden 
at Calais on the 20th. I hear that there is a vast assem- 
blage of amateurs from Kerry, Galway, and other warlike 
places expected on the ground. 

Stevenson has found out how economical it is to live 
alone ; he says he can now breakfast for a penny per 
morning. I have no other important news for you; but 
do write, my dear fellow, do write to me, and let me know 
how you get on, whether the boil on your neck is trouble- 
some, and whether you are better of those uneasy heats at 
night. I sat with P. Crampton near an hour and half on 
Sunday, and again on Monday ; he is just now the most 
spirited skeleton that can be imagined. Best regards to 
all around you. Bessy will answer Mrs. Lambert's very 
kind note before we go. Ever faithfully yours, 

T. MooRU-. 



VOL» II. G 



82 LETTERS. [AITAT. .%• 

[Ko.333.] To his Mother. 

Derbj, Tuesday, Oct 17. 1815. 
My own dear Mother^ 
I have run over here on a short visit to our friends the 
Strutts^ and to buy a sofa for Bessy, who cannot do with- 
out lying down a good deaL Mr* Strutt, who never sees 
me without giving me something, has just made me a pre- 
sent of a very snug and handsome easy chair for my study. 
They are most friendly and excellent people. 

I fear I have been a little irregular, my darling mother, 

this last week, in my correspondence, but I shall make up 
in the present one. Ever your own affectionate, 

Tom. 

[No. 334.] To his Mother. 

Oct. 21. 1815. 

My dearest Mother, 

I returned from Derby on Thursday, and the chiiir 
Mr. Strutt gave me was not the only present I received. 
I owe the man there who furnished our cottage, a balaxce 
of about thirty pounds on his bill, and as I could not pay 
him, I was doubtful whether I should call upon him : how- 
ever, I plucked up courage and went, and asked to look at 
a stand to hold my music, which we very much want. He 
showed me one, price two potmds, very handsome. I asked 
whether he made any cheaper : *^ some," he said, " at from 
thirty-two to thirty-six shillings; but, "Mr. Moore, if you 
will do me the honour to accept that one, as a proof of the 
high respect I entertain for you, you will flatter me ex- 
ceedingly.'^ I, of course, accepted it without hesitation : 
what do you think of that for an English upholsterer? 

Bessy, while I was away, has got the rooms and hall 



1815.] LETTEES* 83 

stained^ and we look much neater now : often, often, my 
darling mother, do we wish for you ; and Bessy aays she 
neyer will be quite happy till you see how comfortable 
we are. 

Take the earliest opportunity of telling Power that I 
should have written to him long before this, but I have 
been waiting for his .announcement of the departure of my 
books. Ever your own, 

Tom. 

[No. 335.] To his Mother, 

Wednesday night, Nov. 8. 1815. 
My dearest Mother, 

Since I last wrote, or rather since Bessy's letter, we got 
my father's of the 26th, which was so far a comfort to us, 
but we are still astonished at receiving no later intelligence 
from you, and I only wait to know that it is not illness 
which has caused your silence, to give you all a very good 
scolding. Neil promised that now she knew Bessy well, 
she would write to her continually, and I believe she has 
sent her but one letter since we left you. There never 
was a creature more anxious about any thing than Bessy is 
to have your loves and good opinions; and, in addition to 
Nell's silence, she took it into her head that my father ex- 
pressed himself coldly and drily towards her in saying, 
^^ Your mother desires me to thank Bessy for the papers." 
I tell her this is all nonsense ; but do make my father say 
something kind about her in his next. 

I hope, my own dearest mother, that to-day's post will 
put me out of the painful anxiety I feel about you all. 
God bless my darling mother. Ever her own, 

Tom. 

G 2 



84 LETTERS. [.Etat. 36. 

[No, 336.] To his Mother. 

Saturday, Nov. 18. 1815. 

My dearest Mother^ 

We are here in the midst of such g£ueties as Derby and 
a large party of Kvely girls can muster up. Bessy is in high 
spirits, and looking better than I have seen her for a long 
time. The Longmans have just sent her down a present 
of Messrs. Inchbald's Theatres. They are, indeed, very 
liberal, and have been particularly kind in their offers of 
money to me, to prevent the sale of my little stock, which 
I commissioned them to effect for me. I have, however, 
refused their offer, thinking it more independent not to 
borrow while I can help it 

If my dear father should be in want of money towards 

Christmas, he may draw upon me, at sixty-one days, for 

twenty or thirty pounds. Love to alL Ever my dearest 

mother's own, 

Tom. 

[No. 337.] To Miss Godfrey. 

Tuesday, Dec. G. 1815. 
Where is my two for one ? Ever since the magnanimous 
pi omise in your last, that you would really and truly let me 
have two of your letters for every one of mine, I have been 
waiting for the shot from the other barrel like a hero, but 
none has come, and, therefore, I fire off this little squib at 
you, just to try your courage, which, I hope, will show 
itself, by return of post, oozing out (like Acres's) from your 
fingers' ends. I have no news for you ; except that the 
other day, being inclined to treat Bessy to Mrs. Inch- 
bald's Modern Theatre, in ten volumes, I wrote to Long- 
man's for them ; and, lol with a generosity unexampled 



1815.] LETTERS. 85 

ninong bibliopoKsts, they sent her a present of all the plays 
Mrs. Inchbald has edited, consisting of forty-two volumes 
splendidly bound, with proof impressions of the plates. I 
have read WalterA^oOy since I heard from you. The battle 
murdered many, and he has murdered the battle* : 'tis sad 
stuiF; Hougomon^ rhyming to ** long," ^* strong," &c He 
must have learned his pronunciation of French from Solo- 
mon Grundy in the play — " Commong dong, as they say 
in Dunkirk." Where is Rogers ? I have not heard from 
him for ages. Four goodly letters has he had from me 
since I left this for Ireland, and never answered one of 
them. This is even worse than you. Miss Two-for-one ! 
Best, kindest love to Lady Donegal, from hers and yours 
faithfully, 

Thomas Moore. 



[No. 338.] To Mr. Power. 

Sunday, Dec. 19. 1815. 
My dear Sir, 

I have only time to send you, according to my promise, 
the first verses of " When Day," &c. which you will, of 
course, lose no time in engraving. 

" Thou art, O God I the life and light 

Of all this beauteous world we see ; 
Its glow by day, its smile by niglit, 

Are but reflections caught from thee ; 
Where'er we turn, thy glories shine. 

And all things fair and bright are thine. 



♦ In similar phrase Lord Erskine wrote : 

'* Of all who fell, by sabre or by shot, 
Not one fell half so flat as Walter Scott.*' 

But Sur Walter only fell as a poet, to rise again as a novelist 

G 3 



8{5 LETTERS. IMtat. 36. 

** 'Ulien Dny, with farewell beam, delays 

Among the opening clouds of Even; 
And we can almost think we gaze 

Through golden vistas into Heaven ! 
Those hues, that wake e*en Light's dediiie, 

So bright, so soft, oh God ! are thiue. 

•* When Night, with wings of starry gloom, 

O'ershadows all the earth and skies. 
Like some celestial bird, whose plume 

Is sparkling with unnumber'd eyes : 
That sacred gloom, those fires divine. 

So grand, so countless, Lord ! are thine." 

I have sent off the copy from memory of *^ There's 
nothing bright " to Stevenson, and have entreated him to 
lose no time in returning it. Ever yours, 

T. MOOEE. 



[No. 339.] To Mr. Power. 

Monday night, 1815. 

My dear Sir, 

I send you '* Isis and Osiris," which I think very beauti- 
fuL Tell Stevenson that the alterations I have made in the 
original are all in submission to his opinion and correction; 
and I think Bennison had better write out the original 
opposite my copy, or Stevenson will never take the trouble 
of comparing them. 

On the other side you will find the second verse of the 
last Sacred Melody I sent you. We shall get on flaminglyy 
youll see. 

I hope we shall soon hear of your little girl being in a 
state to accept our invitation. Ever yours, 

Thomas Moore. 



1815.] LETTERS. 87 

« So grant me, God, from every care, 
And stain of passion free, 
^loft, through Virtue's purer air. 
To hold my course to thee ! 

" No sin to cloud — no lure to stay 
My soul, as home she springs ; 
Thy sunshine on her joyful way, 
Thy freedom in her wings ! ** 



[No. 340.] To E. T. Dalt&ny Esq. 



1815. 



IVIy dear Dalton^ 
I think it is a toss-up which of ns has treated the other 
the worsts and ]!^. Dalton is the only one of the trio that 
has done her duty. Give her my best thanks for remind- 
ing you of me so often^ and tell her that, whenever she 
finds you will not recollect me (let her do all she can), she 
has nothing for it but to sit down and write me a long 
letter herself, and she may depend upon a speedy answer 
and sooHy like Sir William Curtis's peace. In one of 
Lord Byron's letters to me after I left London^ he men- 
tioned having met you, and that IVf rs. Daltoii sung ** one 
of my best songs so well that, only for the appearance of 
affectation, he could have cried." Was it " Could'st thou 
look?" I received the songs you left with Power for me, 
but have not yet been able, in my own poor performance, 
to extract much delight from them. I be^n to fear, do 
you know, that both Mrs. Dalton and you are refining 
•yourselves too far into the super^xquisite of music, and 
one reason of my fearing so is that you did not seem to 
care about tt?^ humble ballads this last time of our meeting, 
half so much as formerly. But indeed there was no 
judging, and still less any enjoying of each other in that 

G 4 



88 LETTERS. CiETAT. 86. 

vortex of London^ in which it is as impossible to find out 
real opinions and feelings as it is to tell the colours of a 
top that is spinning. I was more disappointed than my 
proud stomach would let me tell you at your not making 
a little effort to come and visit us at our cottage. God 
knows when I shall have another opportunity of making 
Bessy known to Mrs. Dalton, for, unless my paper wings 
grow much faster and stronger than they have done of 
late, they will never be able to sustain the flight of my 
whole family to Dublin, and Bessy will not be easily per- 
suaded to leave the children behind her. That land of 
promise, Bermuda, turns out a devilish bad land of per- 
formance : I get as near nothing from it as possible. 

I am delighted to find that Stevenson and I are in 
harness together. I only hope the whip-cord w'ill hold 
out with little Power. Tell Sir John that he must 
positively pass the next summer at this cottage with us. 
If he loves a beautiful country, where every step opens 
valleys, woods, parks, and all kinds of rural glories 
upon the eye, this is the Paradise for him, and (to de- 
scend lower in the scale) he shall have as good brown 
soup as we gave him in Kegworth. He and I must 
do something in the dramatic way. I believe I told you 
I had a long pressing letter from AVhitbrcad to do some- 
thing for Drury Lane, and I had another communica- 
tion upon the same subject the other day from Holland 
House. 

I am getting on prosperously with my po:m, and hope 
to be ready, though rather latcy for this next campaign. 
I wish you had been a little more communicative about 
yourself, but it is sufficiently gratifying to me to hear that 
you are not worse, because it leads me to hope that the 
complaint has reached that point when it will be no longer 




1816.] LETTERS. 

troublesome, and perhaps even show sympl 
altogether. 

We have got into much too gay a neighbourhood, and 
I enjoyed the high dignity, the other night, of being sole 
steward to the county ball in honour of Lord Wellington. 
*' Cock up. Spotty ! " as the poet says. 

Best regards to my dear Mrs. D. from Bessy and my- 
self, and ditto to yourself from, ever yours affectionately, 

Thos. Moobe. 

• 

[No. 341.] To his Mother. 

Wednesday, 1815. 

My dearest Mother, 

What with you and my other love, Bessy, I am kept in 
continual pursuit of franks. I shall send this to Lord 
Byron, and take my chance for his sending it to-day. You 
cannot conceive how kind everybody is to me here, and 
my visit will do me all the good in the world by inspiring 
me with confidence, and showing me the high ground I 
stand upon. I am invited to lecture at the Koyal Institu- 
tion next year; a very flattering distinction, which, how- 
ever, I am doubtful, from many reasons, whether I shall 
accept. Lord Lansdowne last night at Lady Besborough's 
said, he should feel delighted if I would fix my residence 
near his house in the country, and that my best way would 
be to take Bessy there on a visit to him and Lady Lans- 
downe this summer, and look about us for something. 
Could anything be more pleasant or flattering than tliis ? 

I am very anxious to hear from you, my own dear 
mother ; and with best love to father, Kate, and dear Nell, 
I am ever your owb, 

Tom. 



90 LETTERS. [-ffiTAT. 36. 



[No. 342.] To his Mother, 

Jan. 1. 1816. 

My dearest Mother^ 

"NVe were most happy to find, from dear Nell's letter, 
that your cough was gone, and I trust the pain in the side 
will soon go after it Bessy has had a most severe bout 
of it, and is much weakened indeed ; but I have just had 
her out in this sweet spring sunshine, that opens the new 
year so smilingly, and I think she is much better : her 
cough though, at night, is still very distressing. 

The poor girl, of whose death I told you in my last, we 
now find died of an attack on the brain, and, during her 
delirium, she frequently sang parts of ^* There's nothing 
bright but Heaven," and other Sacred Melodies of mine, 
which the poor young creature was a great admirer of. 
Ever my darling mother's own^ 

Tom. 



[No. 343.] To Mr. Power, 

Sunday, Jan. 14. 1816. 
My dear Sir, 

I have been these two days past much better, have re- 
turned to my animal food and wine (which I think the 
3ursed apothecary kept me from too long), and, except for 
a troublesome cough, which still hangs about me, am as 
well as ever. Many thanks for your kind solicitude about 
me. I shall certainly not encounter another winter in 
this coldest house of a most cold country, and I dare say 



1816.] LETTERS. 91 

it 18 somewhere near town that our next move will be to. 
As to my spirits, they are, thank Heaven I pretty good. 
The only thing that sinks deep with me just now is the 
fear, almost to certainty, that I shall not be ready with 
my poem for the press till May, which will put publication 
till after the summer quite out of the question. This 
annoys me, but I could not help it. I have not been 
idle ; but my trip to Ireland threw me back most cruelly. 
I have received the proofs and copies of the words, and, 
in the course of this next week, shall put ihe whole job 
dean out of hand for you. I was doing a little song these 
few days past in spite of my headaches and weakness, but 
I shall throw it aside for the present, and think of nothing 
now but the dispatching the Sacred Songs for you. You 
must engrave ^^ Thou art, O God !" as a single song. 

Why have you not put in " Ah I who shall see that 
glorious Day?" It is in a style that we want very much, 
and I think you had much better include it. I hope you 
liave sent duplicates of these last proofs to Stevenson, 
for of course he must see them. 

I do not know how to thank you enough for your 

generosity about the pianoforte, neither am I qtiite sure 

that I can allow you to be so liberal to me ; at least not 

till I am more settled than at present, for a gift of yours 

I should consider so sacred tbat I never could think of 

parting with it ; and this xmght be inconvenient as long 

as we are in our vagabond state. So perhaps it is 

better to wait till I have some prospect ot fixing some- 
where ; and, in the meantime, your interposition to delay 

my payment of Broadwood for this is quite as much as I 
can require of you ; not that, after all, I think I am iy 
any means likely to part with this sweet pianoforte ; but 



92 LETTERS. [iETAT. 36. 

one does not know what nught happen to make it expedient. 

Ever yours, most truly, 

Thomas Moobe. 



[No. 344.] To Miss Godfrey. 

Jan. 24. 1816. 

You must not be angry with me for not writing to you: 
we have had nothing but iUness in the house since you last 
heard from me. Scarcely had Bessy begun to show symp- 
toms of recovery when /must needs imitate my betters, 
and be ill too. For about ten days I could hardly hold up 
my head ; but I really think the apothecary was, as usual, 
nine-tenths of my disease ; for he starved and phy^cked 
me into such a state of debility, that, when the original 
complunt was gone, there was another, much worse, of his 
own manufacture, to proceed upon; but at last I took 
Moli^re's method of dealing with him, and am, accordingly, 
as well as ever : ^ 11 m'ordonne des remedes ; je ne les 
fais point, et je gu^ris." I wish I could say as much for 
poor Bessy, but her state of health gives me great uneasi- 
ness ; indeed, she is not an instant free from pains, either 
in her back or head, and there appears a general weakness 
and derangement all over her: but her spirits and resolu- 
tion keep her up wonderfully, and the regularity of our 
little menage never suffers an instant from her indisposition. 
She went the other night to an Ashbourne assembly (the 
first time she has been in company since our return from 
Ireland), and the change in her looks struck every one. 
She feels, as I do, most sensibly your kindness in asking 
her to pass some time with you ; and tliere is nothing she 



1816.] LETTERS. 93 

desires and raves of so incessantly as the seeing London, 
and the streets and the theatres once more ; but no plea- 
sure will tempt her to leave the children, and the imprac- 
ticability of moving unth them puts such a visit out of the 
question, till my present task is finished, and I can shift 
my quarters nearer to you for good and all : indeed, here 
it is impossible to stay another winter; so I have said for 
these two winters past, and then, like the returning smiles 
of a mistress, the sweet summer looks of the little place 
made me fall in love with it again, and all the past was for- 
gotten: but we have suffered too much, I think, this 
winter, from its damp, smokiness, and smallness, to let 
anything tempt us into a repetition of such horrors. How 
have you both stood the campaign? I fear, from what 
Kogers sidd in his letter, that my dear Lady Donegal has 
had some returns of her attacks, — is it so ? Do tell me all 
particulars about yourselves; for your letters sometimes 
make me feel as if you thought I was a selfish feUow : I 
am so entirely the hero of them ; but then, on second 
thoughts, I should not be your hero, if you thought me too 
much my own ; so it is all right as it is, only do tell me a 
little more of your concerns — physical, moral, worldly, 
and spirituaL 

We have had a melancholy event among us lately : a 
lovely young girl, of eighteen, left us a bride, and in six 
weeks afterwards was a corpse. It seemed as if her mar- 
riage bells had but just ceased, when we heard of her 
death. During her last delirium she sung several of my 
Sacred Songs, of which the poor girl was a most enthu- 
siastic admirer. Good by. Ever faithfully yours, 

Thomas Moore. 



94 LETTERS. IJEtxt. 36. 

What account do you hear of Lord Byron and his wife? 
lie never mentions her, but writes, I think, in lower spirits 
than usuaL 



[No. 315.] From Miss Godfrey. 

Feb. 1816. 

We were extremely sorry to hear so bad an account of 
both you and Bessy. I am afraid this extremely cold 
weather, in your cold smoky cottage, will be felt severely 
by her in particular, for i/ou seemed pretty well when you 
wrote. I am very glad you are resolved not to stay another 
winter there. We are all hoping that you wUl settle 
within a reasonable distance of us, and that we shall see 
more of you both for the rest of our days. Pray write 
soon again, and say how you all are, and how you bear 
tliis hard frost. Aa to ourselves I have to report that we 
are in a very tolerable state of health, though Bab's ner- 
vous attacks never faiL In the interval she enjoys good 
health and spirits, and altogether the current of time flows 
smoothly on at present. Taking life as it is, with all its 
goods and evils, and ups and downs, it is something to be 
able to say, " I am content ; " and we say it, and, stiU better, 
feel it. One would rather that youth and health lasted for 
ever ; but, as they do not, it is also something to be able 
to do without them. I wish, however, that it had been 
consistent with the order of creation to have given a longer 
summer to the year, and a longer youth to life; but, 
perhaps, it is all better as it is. We have been visiting 
about a great deal this year in the neighbourhood of Lon- 
don, and Bab has been twice at Windsor, being in high 
favour with the Queen, Princesses, and Duke of York, 
but just as usual with the Regent, that's to say, in no 



X816. * LETTEBS. 95 

favour at alL We were also at that poor dear honest man's, 
Liord Sidmouth's, for a few days. As to your wicked 
story of his getting dnink, and singing ballads with his 
royal master^ there is not a word of truth in it ; it would 
be much more Kke him in his cups to give him a high flown 
discourse upon aQ the cardinal virtues and Christian graces. 
Seriously, I believe him to be as honest, as frank, and as 
open a character, as free from all little meannesses as any 
man in the whole world. I was very much amused one 
day upon looking over their books in the drawing-room, 
the very room in which he receives the Prince Regent and 
all the Ministers, to see stuck up gravely on the shelf my 
old acquaintance the Twopenny Post Bag; the last book I 
should have expected to find in a Minister's house. I sup- 
pose you have heard from Lord Byron the history of his 
separation from his wife. The world are loud against him, 
and vote him a worthless profligate. She has gone to the 
country with her mother and Miss Doyle. She says she 
wishes to make no accusations; but she has advised him to 
go abroad for a few years. We don't know her; but 
every one praises and pities her. He is completely lost in 
the opinion of the world; and I fear he is the sort of cha- 
racter never to make an effort to recover it. So I look on 
him as given up to every worthless excess for the rest of 
his life. I hope he will go abroad for your sake, as he 
will certainly cling to you. Give him good advice, and 
tell him to go. A thousand kind things to you both from 
us both. I intended to write a longer letter, but have 
been interrupted; which I have great comfort in thinking 
will not break your heart, for I can't but feel that I r.m 
dulness itself at this present writing ; but eveft truly and 

sincerely yours, 

M.G. 



96 LETTERS. [JEXXT. »6,1 

[Ko. S-t6.] To Lady Donegal. 

May field, April 4. 1816. 

You know what it is to put off answering a letter; right 
well you know it; nobody better; and it is not to you I am 
going to apologise^ but to my dear^ trusty, and well-beloved 
correspondent at your side, who deseryes all the punctual- 
ity, good letter-writing, wit, and fair penmanship I do not 
bestow upon her; and the fact is, when I got her last letter 
we were from home, actually smoked out of our house in 
those high winds, and blown into any of those of our 
neighbours that would give us shelter; and when we 
returned, I had so much to do for Power, besides my ovrn 
never-ceasing job, that I could not muster up five minutes 
for letter-writing for the life of me. I cannot tell you ho^w^ 
I am longing to be with you this sweet weather. I really 
believe spring has as much to do with friendship as with 
love, for I never think half so genially of all those I like 
as at this season. How soon do you leave town this year? 
I hope not till after June, as that wiU be about the period 
of my flourishing there. I have been thinking, as France 
is in such a ticklish state, to take a run over to Paris, just 
for about a fortnight, to take one peep into that great 
cauldron of revolutions, before the *^ bubble, bubble" begins 
again, as it will before long, as siu'e as Louis is an old 
woman. By-the-bye, are you, or are you not, a little 
ashamed of your dear friends, the Ministers? I don't mean 
on the score of their wisdom, talents, &c., for in this respect 
they are, of course, as admirable as ever, but for the 
shabbiness with which they are daily surrendering so many 
wise, indispensable, and sine-qud-nonical measures to the 
bullies of Opposition. ^' Time was, that when the brains 



1816.1 LETTEKS. 97 

were out, the man would die;" or that when a l^Iinister (aa 

IK)gberry says) *' was proved a fool, he would go near to 

be thought so too ;" but now we see that so he keeps his 

place^ lie need not be nice as to whose measures he keeps 

it by : if he hasn't the yigour or the sense to force what he 

thinks right upon his adversaries, he has the convenient 

passiveness to let them force what they please upon Atm. 

l^e shall soon have all measures originate with the Opposi* 

tion : they will lay the eggs, and the kind Cuckoo IVfinis- 

ters iTvill hatch them. Bessy, though a little better within 

these few days, continues in general as weak or even weaker 

than ever; but I look with much hope to the summer for 

her amendment. The little ones are quite well, and 

Barbara, if she was but prettier, promises to be all we 

could wish her, — ^intelligent, sweet-tempered, and affection* 

ate. How is your dear Barbara ? You have not mentioned 

her to me this long time. I suppose I shall find her grown 

beyond redemption: what a pity they can't stay little 

yomig things for ever. 

Be it known to you that on Saturday last I took the 
chair at the anniversary dinner of the Lancastrian Society at 
Derby, and astonished not only the company but myself by 
sundry speeches, of which the Derby paper of to-day gives 
such a flourishing account, that I blush to the eyes ; seri- 
ously, I never saw anything like the enthusiastic effect I 
produced, and of all exertions of talent, public speaking 
is certainly the most delightful: the effect is so imme- 
diately under one's own eyes, and the harvest of its fame 
so instantaneous. This was the first time I ever really 
prepared or exerted myself in speaking, and oh ! what 
would I not ^ve to have many and higher opportunities 
for it. Would you bring me in if you could ? that yott 
VOL. II. H 



98 LETTERS. [£tat.36. 

would, in spite of Dogberry and the CadLoo Ministers; I 
know 70U would. Ever yours, 

T.M. 

In a letter I have had lately frmn Lord Byron he says^ 
^^ There is not existing a better, a brighter, or more 
amiable creature than Lady Byron." Is not this odd ? 
What can be the reason of the separation ? 



[No. 847.] From Lady DonegdL 

Sunday night, 1816. 

Mary has received your lecture, and means to answer 
it to-morrow ; but I cannot let her cover go without sk 
word or two from me, particularly as I want to ask a fa- 
vour of you. You really would confer a lasting obligation 
on me, and as lasting honour on yourself, if you would 
comply with my request, which is, that you will sit down 
and write, mthout farther loss of time, the ** Battle of Wa- 
terloo." Do not let that pitiful, wretched performance of 
Scott's remain the only tribute that genius has paid to such 
glorious deeds ; but do you describe the day. And I will 
answer for it, be it ever so short, or done in ever so great 
a hurry, that you will get any thing for it that you 
choose to ask, and drive Walter Scott out of the field (at 
least of that field), for ever. It would be a magnificent 
subject for you ; and the last Quarterly Review has made 
a collection of anecdotes, all ready to your hand, of the 
most interesting events of the day ; and all such beautiful 
subjects, that I would give more than I can say if you 
would imdertake it. The work that you have in hand 
must be ready for the press by this time ; and I hope that 
you have begun nothing else that could prevent your under- 



181 6.] LETTERS 99 

taMng this. I implore you to think seriously of it, for 
I am sure you would make it the most beautiful thing in 
the language, and it would cost you but very little time 
or trouble. As I am rather out of my senses upon the sub- 
ject, I shall keep the rest of my ravings to myself, when 
I once more exhort you to let the Irish bard record the 
deeds of the Irish hero. You might too, with a safe con- 
science, say a word or two of the merits of the Duke of 
York, who had made the army, and contributed his share 
to the glory of the day. Not a word of his box at Covent 
Garden, which we have at our conunand. 

Give my love to Bessy. How is my godchild (I was 
just going to write grandchild) going on ? How far is 
she advanced in her education ? Ever truly and sincereiy 
yours, 

B. D. 



[No. 348.] To his Mother. 

London, May, 1816. 
My darling Mother, 
Safe arrived — quite well, but more pulled about, 
iussed, and bustled than ever. To-night I go to the 
Queen's house to see the bride in all her nuptial glory. 
Only think of Lady Donegal's courage to ask permission 
-to take me. 

I dine so early, for the purpose of being there in 
time, that I must bid good by, my own dearest mother. 
Love to father and NeD. 

I must leave this letter with the Donegals in hope of 
a frank ; but if she cannot get one, I have bid her send it 
off and for once you must pay postage. 

H 2 



100 LETTERS. t^TAT,37« 

[No. 340.] To his Mother. 

Saturday, Maj 4. 1816. 

My dearest Mother, 
What do you think of me^ Tom Brown the Younger, 
haying been at the Queen's house to see the royal bride 
in all her nuptial array ? Lady Donegal had the courage 
to ask permission of the Princess Elizabeth for me to 
go. The Princess Charlotte stopped, as she passed, to 
ehake hands with Lady Donegal, by whose side I stood, 
80 that I had an admirable view of her. I am almost 
tired of the bustle of this place already, and even after 
a short week begin to sigh for my little cottage and Bessy 
again. 



Ino.350.] To his Mother. 

Monday, May, 1816. 
My dearest Mother, • 
I cannot get a frank, and have not time to write round 
through Joe, so I must dispatch this as it is ; to tell you I 
am quite well, in terrible request, never half so much so 
before, and that, flattering as it is all, I am delighted at the 
idea of being off on Friday next (as I expect) to the cot- 
tage. This, I know, will give you more pleasure than any 
thing else, as it proves I am happy at home, which is the 
source of every comfort and virtue in this life. I only 
wish you were there to make it still happier to me. God 
bless my darling mother. Ever your own, 

Tom. 



18 J C] LETTEK8. 101 

[xo. 351.] Fr€m Mr. Jeffrey. 

92. George Street, Edinburgh, May 28. 1816. 

My dear Moore, 

It is very kind in you to think of me ; and your re- 
membrances could never have come at a more acceptable 
moment ; for I am, as usual, in a state of utter bankruptcy 
and despair. I commit Yathek to you with the greatest 
pleasure, though I have not an idea what you will do with 
him. I promised solemnly to begin printing before the 
end of this month ; but, up to this hour, I have nothing to 
begin upon, so that I dare say you will be soon enough any 
time before the middle of June, but be sooner if possible* 

I am glad you have learned to feel feverish in London, 
for then there is some chance of your condescending to 
take a peep at us here, where there is not half enough of 
movement and variety to fill the evening of a true London 
taste. We live in blissful ignorance of the doings which 
vex and scandalise you in that great city, though I have 
mourned a great deal to myself about Lord Byron, with- 
out knowing very well what to believe of the crude 
rumours that have spread so far. 

May I venture to ask what has become of your opus 
majusy which you led us to expect nearly a year ago ? I 
am afraid you are very idle in your retreat, though I have 
too long considered idleness and happiness as synonymous 
to blame you very much for this indulgence. 

I meditate some little reviews of poetry, and certainly 
shall not be ill-natured to RiminL It is very sweet and 
very lively in many places, and is altogether piquant, as 
being by far the best imitation of Chaucer and some of 
his Italian contemporaries that modem times have pro- 
duced. I do not know exactly what to say of Christabell^ 

r3 



102 LETTERS. [^-TAT. 37. 

though with all its perversity and affectation I read it with 
some pleasure. I do not mean the pleasure of scoflSng 
and ridicule. Indeed I scarcely ever read poetry in that 
humour^ and usually find something to love and admire in 
works which I could never have courage or conscience to 
praise. My natural foible is to admire and be pleased too 
easily, and I am never severe except from effort and re- 
flection. I am afraid some people would not believe this ; 
but you will, when I tell yo|i that I say it quite in earnest. 
I was lucky, far beyond my deservings, in meeting with 
Samuel Rogers at Paris, and we had great comfort in talking 
of you. Is it not a Uttle bit of affectation in you to say 
you are obliged to me for speaking kindly of you, of whom 
all men agree to speak kindly, and to whose kindness, and 
frankness, and generosity, I am indebted for a friendship 
which paltry spirits cannot comprehend ? But I am not 
going to speak seriously of things that might make me too 
serious. Believe me ever, very faithfully yours^ 

F. Jeffrey. 



[No. 352.] To William Gardiner^ Esq. 

Tuesday evening, 1816. 

My dear Sir, 

One would think by our anxiety to detain you that we 

had a presentiment of something worth your staying for ; 

and, strange to say, an attraction has but this moment 

occurred, which, I am sure, to you is irresistible. My 

friend Rogers (who, I told you, left me a month or two 

since), returning by K^worth, and not finding fne there, 

has come by the evening coach, and is now sitting by the 

pianoforte at Mr. Peach's, waiting the effect of this note 

in bringing you back to us. He is a warm admirer of 



1816.] LETTERS. 103 

your music^ and is anxious to see the author before he 
leaves Leicester, which must be early in the morning; 
therefore pray come immediately. Ever yours, 

T. MOOBE. 



[No. 353.] To his Mother. 

July 11. 1816. 

My dearest Mother, 

We got dear Nell's letter last night ; and Bessy is afraid, 
by what she says, that she has not received a letter from 
her which I inclosed, I think, about a week ago. Perhaps, 
in my hurry, I may have omitted it, but I shall look 
among my papers. I sent one letter last week to you 
through Corry, which I fear you may not receive, from 
his being perhaps out of town. 

Poor Sheridan! the Prince (I hear from town), after 
neglecting him, and leaving him in the hands of bailiffs all 
the time of his illness, sent him at last the princely dona- 
tion of two hundred pounds, which Sheridan returned. I 
hope this is true. 

I have given notice to my landlord, and shall be off 
from this as soon as the winter shows his ugly face ; that 
is, I suppose, about the latter end of October. 

It grieves me to hear of the poor car's being such an 

invalid; and if my father could but get credit for a new 

one for a few months, I think I could manage to supply 

him by the time. Just now, and for two or three months 

to come, I shall be without one extra pound ; if, indeed, I 

am lucky enough to have any intra ones ; but couldrCt you 

manage it somehow before the fine weather is all over, my 

dearest modier ? the exercise is so necessary to you. Ever 

your own, 

Tom. 

H 4 



104 LETTEB6. t^TAT. S7. 

[No. 354.] To Miss Godfrey. 

Mayfield, July 18. 1816. 
I know you will say tliat I put off my letter to this 
*' last day of the world" in the hope of escaping, by any 
means^ from the trouble of writing. But I am not quite 
BO desperate^ and I hope we shall have many ^* more last " 
days (though of somewhat a sunnier kind than this is) to 
give me an opportunity of convincing you that, though 
appearances may be against me, I am really a very good 
correspondent. Do you know what the chemists call 
** latent heat ? " This I am full of. It is a property which 
some bodies have of keeping all their warmth to them- 
selves ; or, rather, in themselves ; which makes them seem 
not half so warm as other bodies which have all their 
warmth on the surface. Now this is the case with me ; 
and therefore, whenever you are long without hearing 
from me, set it down at once to " latent heat," and console 
yourself with the idea of its being all snug and warm in 
my heart, instead of lavishing its precious particles through 
the post-office. Seriously and really I ought to have 
written sooner; but, as I am very busy, and have no news 
for you, — nothing, in short, to send but a few bad jokes, 
" which, like over-AosA game, will hardly keep to town, — I 
thought I might as well let you begin with yoiu* " How 
d'ye do?" and then, like Paddy Blake's echo, I could 
answer " Very well, I thank ye." I found Bessy, I 
thought, a little better on my return, which I attribute a 
good deal to her having passed the time away from home, 
and out of the reach of those domestic cares which, limited 
as they are, she feels much too anxiously and busily for 
that repose, both of mind and body, which is so necessary 
to her. If I could but afford the money and time, I am 



18i6.] LETTERS. 105 

Bure a few months of rambling and idleness would do her 
far more service than all the doctors in the world. She 
sometimes looks so wan and feeble as to make me quite 
miserable. I have given notice to our landlord^ and, as 
soon as the winter months set in (at least those that don't 
call themselves summer ones, like the present), we shall 
hope to be off to you. My ulterior plans are so uncertain, 
that I think for the winter I shall only take a small fur- 
nished house somewhere near London. 

Do you know that I was lately fool enough to waste a 
few days on a review of Glenarvon, and, thinking it rather 
comical, sent it to Jeffrey, who appears to have thought 
the same of it. But, in consequence of numerous applica- 
tions he had from town, he pledged himself to more than 
one friend not to admit any mention of the book in his 
Review. Homer was one of the advisers, and I think, 
upon the whole, they were right. 

Those two little brothers, the Powers, are going to 
war ding-dong, and seem resolved to be "belligerent 
Powers," as well as their betters. I am delighted that 
the work they come to issue upon is the Sacred Songs, as 
from them not even GUrrow himself will be able to extract 
indecency. 

Our little ones are quite well. Bessy was all delight 
at your presents, and is keeping the scarf for town 
display. Ever yours, with best love to Lady D. and 
sister Philly, 

T. M. 



106 LETTERS. [iETAT.sr. 

[No. d5S«] To his Mother. 

Sunday, Julj 21. 1816. 

My dearest Mother, 
For want of news I send you a letter we got last night 
from our Derby friend, Mr. Strutt, which will show you 
what kindness pursues me everywhere. There is nothing 
I should like better than what he proposes, and it would 
do Bessy infinite service; but, besides the expense of 
joining them at Bamsgate (which I could not manage}, 
it would unsettle all my plans of business for the rest of 
the summer; and Bessy, who is always self-denying 
and prudent, says, if / were wild enough to think of 
taking her, she would not let me. She was very ill all 
yesterday, but she is better to-day. Ever my darling 
mother's own, 

Tom. 

[Na 856.] To his Mother. 

Thursday, 1816. 

My dearest Mother, 
You will get either by to-day's or to-morrow's post a 
Morning Chronicle, with some lines on the death of 
Sheridan by wie, which you must send back when you have 
done with them. Let old Joe see them first ; but you need 
not mention to any one else their being mine. Bessy- 
has just been out walking to pay some bills, and call upoa 
some of her poor sick women, to whom she is very kind and 
useful at very moderate expense. This delights her more 
than all the finery and company in the world. I never cease 
regretting, my dearest mother, that you have not an 
opportunity of seeing her in her own element — home and 
quiet. Mary Dalby (whose long and sincere attachment 



1816.J LETTERS. 107 

to me makes her a very quick-siglited judge) said to me 
at the end of a fortnight she passed with us^ *^ I do not 
think in the world you could have found another creature 
80 suited to you as that." And she was right. God bless 
you, my dearest mother. Ever your affectionate, 

Tom. 



[No. 357.] To his Mother. 

Sunday, August 18. 1816. 
My dearest Mother, 

I have only time to say that Bogers has just left us ; he 
seemed to enjoy himself very much, and it was with some 
difficulty I got off going with him to the Lakes. Unluckily 
I cannot spare the time from my various jobs. 

He made Bessy very happy by giving her, when he was 
going away, two pounds to lay out for the family of one 
of her poor women, whom he saw with her. He is an 
excellent fellow. 

You will see by the Chronicle that my lines upon 
Sheridan were published in a pamphlet by some one, at 
6if. price. Bogers tells me they made a great sensation. 
Ever your own, 

Tom. 



[Ko. 868.] To his Mother. 

September, 1816. 
My dearest Mother, 

I was near letting tins day go by, and it is the mid- 
dle of the week, and then you would have reason to scold 
me for my neglect: but indeed you are very good and 
forgiving to all my little forgetfulnesses, which are not. 



108 LETTERS. liETAT. 37. 

after all, very heavy, for I never cease thinking of my own 
dears at home; and it is only business sometimes that 
make me seem (as Lord Moira expresses it) ** oblivious '* 
of them. You will be amused at what Hunt says of my 
*^ Magdalen " Hynms, in the Examiner I send you. Bessy- 
gives her best love. We have been paying visits to-day, 
and she is very tired. The little ones are quite welL I 
write in the midst of chatter, at Mrs. Belcher's. Ever 
your own, 

Tom. 



[No. 359.] To Lady Donegal. 

Sept 24. 1816. 
I will not stop to make apologies for being so long with- 
out writing. My excuse is, that I had not time ; but then, 
I have not time to make the excuse, as I merely seize the 
opportunity of a cover to Power to inclose a few hasty 
hieroglyphics to you. Part of my business lately has been 
gaiety ; the business, of all others, I was born for. Bessy's 
doctor thought a trip tp Matlock would do her good, a.nd 
there accordingly we passed eight or nine days, dancing, 
walking, and keeping-never-minding any thing ; for which 
Bessy, I think, was evidently better, and I, you may- 
swear, not at all the worse. Kogers staid with us here 
from the Wednesday to Simday, and left ** an image of 
himself" (I mean, intellectually B^2i!king\ very favourable 
indeed J on the minds both of Bessy and the little ones. He 
was indeed particularly amiable ; and took no fright at the 
superfluity either of melted butter or of maids, and even 
saw with composure a little boy who comes to clean my 
shoes ; not that I can quite answer for his subsequent 
reflections on these luxuries. 



1816.] LETTERS. 109 

As the time approaches for leaving our cottage, I begin 
to feel a little reluctance, and shall, I dare say, linger on 
here till the period of my publishing is near. Bessy is 
certainly a little better, and a break-up of our establish- 
ment just at this moment would be very deranging. She 
was delighted with the confidential frankness of your letter 
to her, and felt something far beyond the mere honour that 
it did her, though that was felt too, as it ought to be. 

Tell our dear Mary that I look for it, under her own 
hand and seal, that she is quite as well and waggish as 
ever. Ever yours, 

T. MOOBE. 



[No. 360.] To Mr, Power. 

Tuesday, Sept. 24. 1816. 
My dear Sir, 

I send you a very short, but very beautiful Melody. It 
ought to have been a Sacred Song this time, but I took a 
fancy to this air, and was resolved to strike while the anvil 
was hot. I should be happy to think that my work now 
would prove as durable as it is quick ; but though I post on 
in this way, I shall not be so unjust either to you or myself 
as to let either collection appear till I am perfectly satisfied 
with all their ingredients. There are two or three of the 
Irish ones equal to any I have done ; and one in particular 
(** This Earth is the Planet"), which will be very popular 
in my own singing of it ; but our plan is to go on till we 
can select twelve super-excellents. 

As the time approaches for our giving up the cottage, I 
be^n to feel very reluctant, and shall probably linger on 
as long at least as there is any thing like tolerable weather; 
indeed, I feel a little afraid of a new place on account of 



1 10 L£TTERS. [JE.TAT. 37. 

tlie Jinances; for here, whenever I have not the supplies, 
I have, at least, credit, which could not be expected in a 
new residence ; we shall see, however. I have been ex- 
peeling your answer about mj Dedicatory Songs. Ever 
yours, very truly, 

Thomas Moob£. 

Do you know that there is an edition ol my Melodies 
published in Philadelphia. I wish we could get them. 



[No. 361.] To Mr. Power. 

Wednesday, Oct. 1. 1816. 
My dear Sir, 

I send you a Sacred Melody, which is, I believe, rather 
of a " Magdalen" cast (as Hunt very prettily said of them 
the other day), but the remaining verses will retrieve this 
fault. I think Stevenson may harmonise the air for three 
voices very charmingly. I grieve much at your difference 
with him, and trust that it will never go so far as to se- 
parate our alliance ; for, let them say what they will, no 
man in general could understand or please me half so welL 
He has done the little duet of " If Thoult be Mine," beau- 
tifully ; it is as pretty a thing, and will be as much sung, 
as any in the Melodies. 

I have long been intending to ask you whether it is pro- 
bable I shall be called upon by either you or your brother 
in the course of your law proceedings in Dublin this win- 
ter. I wish to ascertain this point, as it might a good deal 
influence my movements on leaving Derbyshire. 

I have had a letter from your brother, but have not 
time now to advert to its contents. Ever yours, 

Thos. Moore. 



1816.] LETTEBS. HI 

[No. 362]. To Ms Mefthtr. 

Not. 22. I8I6. 
My dearest Mother, 

We got my darling father's kind and heart-warming 
letter, and were both deeply gratified by it. I am glad^ 
my own dear mother, that jcmfeel how I love you. I can 
but half show it ; but I would do more, if I could. Bessy 
is continually making projects for our all liying together ; 
&nd no later than this morning, at breakfast, imagined a 
very pretty scheme for our taking the house next to you, 
making a door in the waU, dining every day together, &c. 
I am not without hopes that some of her visions may yet 
be realised. 

God bless my sweet mother. Love from us both to 
&ther and our excellent Nell, and believe me, ever your 
own, 

Tom. 

L1817. 

In the preface to the sixth volume of Moore's Works, 
published by Longman, will be found a statement, that in 
the year 1812 he first conceived the project of a poem on 
an Oriental subject, of the quarto inze, which Scott had 
adopted, and rendered popular. It will be seen, also, that 
Mr. Perry insisted he should receive no less a sum than 
the highest that had ever been paid for a poem. " That," 
said Mr. Longman, " was 3000 guineas." " Exactly so," 
replied Mr. Perry; ^^and no less a sum ought he to 
receive." The sum of 3000Z. was readily agreed to, and 
Mr. Moore proceeded with his work. ' In 1816 the poem 
was ready for publication; but as the year was one of great 



112 LETTERS. [ JETAT. 

distress, and consequently verj unfavourable to publish< 
Moore most handsomely wrote to the Longmans, to leai 
them at liberty to postpone or modify the bargain, or ey< 
to relinquish it altogether. Considering the years he 
spent in the work, and the value of 3000 pounds to 
family and to himself, this conduct was really magnanimoi 
But Mr. Longman was too liberal a man to take advi 
tage of such generosity. The poem appeared in Ma] 
1817, with a dedication to Mr. Kogers.] 



[Ko.868.] To Mr. Power. 

Wednesday, Jan. 8. 1817. 
My dear Sir, 

I am glad you received the money safe ; and rejoice that 
I could, even in such a trifling degree, be of service to you. 

I suppose you have heard that my father has lost his 
situation. This is a heavy blow to me, as I shall have to 
support them all the remainder of their Kves. I am not 
yet in possession of the circumstances ; but as there is no 
one to be appointed in his place, I suppose it is a part of 
the system of retrenchment ; and, if so, I cannot complain : 
but more of this another time. Ever yours, 

T. MOOEE. 

My head still troubles me, and I intend to have it bled 
copiously to-morrow, ten or twelve ounces. 



[No. 364,] To Lady Donegal. 

Jan. 12. 1817. 
I have had various calamities lately. Li the first place, 
my studies have been interrupted, in their very capital^ by 



jire! 



117.] LETTEBS. 113 

I violent pain^ which was at first thought to proceed from 
'" po much blood, and I was accordingly cupped, scarified, 
.'^jeeched, and bleached by abstinence, physic, &c. &c. In 
, |he next and more serious place, my father has been turned 
^^ut of his employment in Ireland ; and thus am I doomed 
Jo be a poor man for the remainder of my existence, as I 
' jpiust share my crust with him as long as he lives. They 
do not even give him half-pay ; and his dismission has been 
attended with some unfairness (as well as I can understand 
from his own account and Joe Atkinson's), which I have 
endeavoured to counteract by the inclosed letter to Lord 
Mulgrave. You will smile at my having the impudence to 
write to him; but as I ask no favour, and merely entreat 
justice for my father, there could be no scruple on my part 
in addressing him ; and, if you feel none in giviog him the 
letter, I think it will be the means of drawing his atten- 
tion more favourably to it. It was but this moment I 
thought of asking you to do me this kindness and I have 
not time for a word more ; except to say, that next month 
we move towards town, and that it will give me real hap- 
piness, amid all my perplexities, to find you^ my very dear 
friend, as much better in health as my heart wishes you to 
be. Best love to Mary. Ever yours, 

T. Moore. 

My head is much better. You need not be afraid of the 
tone of the enclosed ; nor think, with Davy, that " it is, as 
I may say, a designing and malicious looking letter." I 
have written it with great respectfulness and humility, as 
I was in policy boimd to do. You need not add any repre- 
sentations, I think, of your own, as I by no means wish to 
have the appearance of making interest: but the sooner you 
let him have it the better. 

VOL. !!• I 






114 LETTEB8. [iETAT. 37. 

[No. 365.] To Mr. Power. 

Saturday, Jan. 18. 1817. 

My dear Sir, 
You will be glad to hear that my father has got half- 
pay, which is a considerable relief compared with what we 
expected ; and I write to you immediately, as I know you 
will be glad to hear it. Beiioeen ourselves, he never could 
have got it, had I not myself written to Lord Mulgrave on 
the subject : but more of this when we meet. It is plea- 
sant, as well in point of character as of mofiey ; for the 
liberal gentlemen at the other side wanted to make it ap- 
pear that he had done something very wrong, which 
merited such a dismission; but Lord Mulgrave, in his 
letter to me, says, he ^* can find nothing in Mr. Moore's 
conduct to prevent his receiving the retirement of half- 
pay ; which he has accordingly directed." Next Monday 
or Tuesday you shall have the proofs, &c. ; but I have been 
all distraction and nervousness lately. Ever yours, 

,T. MOOBE. 

Could you in the course of a week or ten days muster 
me up a few pounds (five or six), as I am almost without a 
shilling ? 



[Ko. 366.] To Lady Donegat 

Thursday night, Jan. 23. 1817. 

I am upon my Jmees before you. I findj from your 
statement, that I was quite wrong, and have not a word 
to say in my defence, except you can understand (what, 
perhaps, is unintelligible to any but " wrojig-lieaded Irish" 



1817.] LETTEB8. 115 

men ") the mortal dread I feel of being supposed to relax 
my principles in favour of my interest, or of being thought 
capable of attacking a man one day, and coming cap-in- 
hand to him on another, according as it suited my con- 
venience so to do. Even now, so strongly do I labour 
under this wrong-headedness, that (simple as the trans- 
action has been, and creditable, 1 think, to all of us) I 
should infinitely rather have worked to support my &ther 
myself totally ^ than have made one movement towards 
procuring this half-pay for him, did I not know that the 
idea of depending wholly upon my exertions would have 
made my mother and him wretched. But this is only my 
own (perhaps morbid) feeling. It was that plaguy word 
about ** justice" in his note to you that set my fancy on 
horseback, and, as is the case with all beggars (which my 
fancy must be by this time, after an expenditure of six 
thousand lines), she rode to the devil with me. But do 
forgive me, my dearest friend, and, for Heaven's sake, 
write immediately to say you do ; for among the calamities 
of this world I should rank as the greatest^ mj being in 
the slightest degree out of favour with you : indeed, I 
have not been happy ever since I wrote that hot-headed 

letter. Ever yours, 

T. M. 

I have inflicted double postage upon you, as I think the 
sooner he gets my acknowledgment the better, and I 
thought it would be satisfactory to you to see it. Do 
write soon, I entreat of you. 



I 2 



1 16 LETTERS. [^TAT, 37. 

[No. 867.] To his Mother. 

Ashbourne, March 6. 181 7. 

My dearest Mother, 

1 arrived here yesterday morning, after having set the 
printers to work on my manuscript, and fixed upon a 
cottage at Homsey, within six miles of town. The way 
I have arranged my money matters with Longman is 
satisfactory and convenient to them, and, I should hope, 
safe for myself. I am to draw a thousand pounds for the 
discharge of my debts, and to leave the other two thousand 
in their hands (receiving a bond for it) till I find some 
mode of disposing of it to advantage. The annual interest 
upon this two thousand (which is a hundred pounds) my 
father is to draw upon them for quarterly, and this I hope, 
with his half- pay, will make you tolerably comfortable. 
By this arrangement, you see, I do not touch a sixpence 
of the money for my own present use, and I consider 
myself very lucky indeed to be able to refrain from it- 
If my poem succeeds, I have every prospect of being very 
comfortable; and indeed, whether it succeeds or not, 
there is no fear of me. 

I shall stay a few days here with our friends the Coopers, 
and, on Tuesday next, transport the whole colony (no 
easy or cheap matter, you may suppose) to London. 

I was delighted to hear, by Ellen's letter through Lucy, 
that your spirits, my darling mother, were so much better. 
This is quite right ; and I feel it the more joyfully, as I 
am sure your consideration for my wishes has been one 
great cause of your making the effort. God bless my 
sweet mother. Ever your own, 

Tom. 

Bessy is, I think, a little better, and the young ones 
are quite well* 



1817.] LETTERS, 117 

Cno* 368.] To Ms Mother. 

Ashbourne, Tuesday, March 11. 1817. 
My dearest Mother, 

We are off to-night for town. I have taken the inside 
of one of the coa<;hes to ourselves, and trust in Heaven 
that I shall carry all my little establishment safely to the 
end of their long journey. I have paid all my bills here, 
and believe that we carry with us the respect and good 
wishes of every one. Indeed I have never experienced 
more real kindness than from some of our friends in this 
neighbourhood. 

You will perceive that my poem is announced, and I shall 
now have a most racketting time of it till I am published. 

Bessy is a little better, and the young things are quite 
well. Ever your own, 

Tom. 



iNo. 369.] To his Mother. 

Friday, March 13. 1817. 

My dearest Mother, 
We arrived quite safe, and the little ones bore the 
journey like heroines. Bessy, too, went through it much 
more stoutly than I expected. We were at Drury Lane 
last night, and to-morrow we go to the Opera. This is 
merely to give Bessy a taste of London before we are off 
to our Homsey cottage, where 1 shall be confined very 
closely to business for the next two months. We found 
a most comfortable and kind reception at the house of 
Bessy's friend (niece to IVIrs. Ready), Mrs. Branigan, an 
excellent person, who appears to be very prosperously and 
comfortably married, and whose house will be a most 

i3 



118 LETTERS, [2ETAT. a7» 

valuable convenience to us whenever we visit London. 
We stay with them till Monday. Bessy is just gone out 
with Lady Donegal in her carriage to look for a new 
bonnet. God bless my dearest mother. Best love to 
Nell and my good father. Ever your own, 

Tom. 

I have taken Bessy this morning to see the new house : 
she likes it exceedingly. I am to pay ninety pounds for 
the year. It is well furnished ; and this clears taxes and 
everything. 

[No. 370.] To his Mother. 

Homsey, Middlesex, 1817. 

My dearest Mother, 

We are at last settled, and I heffin to feel at home. At 
first when we came, I was a good deal disgusted by find- 
ing that the place was full of rats, and that one of the 
rooms smoked, — indeed, you would have pitied me if you 
had seen the irritable state of fidget it put me into, every- 
thing now depending so much on my having these two next 
months free and quiet for the getting out my poem ; but I 
think we have now got over all our grievances; and 
Bessy's exertions and good-humour throughout the whole, 
and the accommodating spirit with which she has encoun- 
tered and removed every diflSculty for me, has been quite 
delightful. 

I hope my dear father has not suffered himself to want 
any supply : he may draw whenever he is in need of any- 
thing ; and as soon as the poem is out I shall establish the 
regular channel through Longman for his annual hundred. 
Love to all. Ever your own, 

Tom. 



1817*1 LETTiaBtS. 119 

UNo. 371.] To his Mother. 

My dearest Mother, Tuesday, May 13. 1817. 

I am posting away, whip and spur, for the goal, which 
(you will have seen by the papers) I am to reach on the 
22nd. Strange to say, the work is not finished yet, but I 
hope to give the last of it into the printer's hands before 
Saturday. I believe there is a good deal of anxiety for it, 
and the jftrst sale will, I have no doubt, be rapid; but 
^whether it will stick to that is the question, and I have 
my fears. 

I never was better, thank God ! I have been (for the 
£rst time since I was your own little boy) a good Catholic 
all this week, not having tasted a bit of meat since Tues* 
day last. I found myself getting a little too full of bloody 
and this regimen has made me as cool and comfortable as 
possible. Love to all. Ever your own, 

Tom. 

[No. 372.] To his Mother. 

My dearest Mother, Honwey, Saturday, May, 1817. 

I received my father's letter yesterday, and am glad 

to find you did not omit the celebration of my birthday : 

I meant, indeed, to have stirred you up a little on the 

subject. We are delighted to find that dear Kate is 

recovered. 

I received some Edinburgh papers the other day, full of 
praises of Lalla Kookh ; it seems, indeed, if I may judge 
from these journals, to have produced a great sensation in 
Scotland. One of these papers Bessy has forwarded to 

you, by the way of DerbyfiJiire. 

My father may draw upon the Longmans as soon as he 
pleases. God bless my sweet mother. Ever your own, 
^ 1 4 Tom. 



120 LETTEBS. [JCtat. 38. 

[No. 373.] To his Mother. 

Homsej, May 30. 1817. 

My dearest Mother^ 

The book is going on famously ; I beKeve I told you in 
my last that we were already going into a second edition, 
so that my conscience as to the publishers' pockets is now 
quite at rest. I should suppose your copy was the first 
that arrived in Dublin. All the opinions that have reached 
me about it in London are very flattering ; and I rather 
think I shall not be disappointed in the hope that it will 
set me higher in reputation than ever. Faults, of course, 
are found, but much less than I expected ; and if I but 
get off well with the two Reviews, the Edinburgh aud 
Quarterly, I shall look upon my success as perfect. The 
latter, of course, is rather hostile to me from my politics, 
but I believe, on the present occasion, they will be pretty 
fair. 

I have had most pressing solicitations from the Opposi- 
tion to undertake the superintendence of a new paper they 
have set up, " The Guardian," but it would not suit me ; 
besides, living in London is what I do not now like at all. 
I dined and slept at Holland House on Wednesday last ; 
we had Tierney, Lord Aberdeen, &c. &c. Bessy took a 
round with me, while we were in town, to return calls, — 
Lady Besborough, AsgiU, Cork, Hastings, &c. &c. : we 
were let in at almost all, and she was very much amused. 
We go for a few days to Lady Donegal, on Wednesday 
next, children and all. Ever your own, 

Tom. 

I hope dear Kate and the little one are recovered : my 
love to her. I think she likes the book. 



1817.] LETTERS. {(U N I V !^ ^21' I T 7^ 



iNo. 374.] To his Mother. 



Hornsey, June 1817. 



My dearest Mother, 
We are in expectation of some visitors here. Bessy's 
brother-in-law is arrived from Edinburgh, and we mean to 
have him out for a day or two : and Barbara Godfrey, 
Ijady Donegal's niece, comes to pass a few days with us 
next week — our neighbourhood to town imposes a little of 
this upon us. Our most welcome visitor, however, comes 
to-day, meaning no less a person than that gentleman 
of the gown and breeches. Master Tom (you know, I sup- 
pose, that a gown and short breeches form part of his COS7 
tume). Sir Francis Burdett's brother, who lives in our 
neighbourhood, brings him to us from the Charter House, 
lifith his own two sons, and takes him back again on Mon- 
day. God bless you both. Your own, 

To^. 

[No. 375.] To his Mother. 

Keppel Street, June 25. 1817. 
My dearest Mother, 

Our College dinner on Saturday was a very curious 
one. I dare say you will see the account of it copied into 
the Irish papers, and it will amuse you to find that Croker 
was the person that gave my health. I could not have a 
better proof of the station which I hold in the public eye 
than that Croker should claim friendship with me before 
such men as Peel, the Duke of Cumberland, &c. &c. I 
was received with very flattering enthusiasm by the meet- 
ing. Bessy and the children left Kogers's yesterday, and 
came here for a few days to the Branigans. About the tenth 
of the next month I shall set off for Paris ; and, having 
passed a month there, it is my intention to run over t-^ 



122 LETTERS. ZMtat, 8& 

Dublin for a week or two, my darling mother, to see you 

and my own dears at home, as I have given up the 

thought of taking my whole establishment over, which 

would be Imprudent unless I meant to live some time in 
Ireland^ and that^ I think, I had better not do. Bessy is 

pretty well in spite of all her raeketting. She saw Kemble 

take leave on Monday night. Lady Besborough having sent 

to us to go to her box. Everybody is most kind to her. 

The little things are not quite well. God bless my own 

dear mother. Ever yours, 

Tom. 

[No. 376.] To his Mother. 

Homsey, Tfannday, 1817. 

My dearest Mother^ 

I am kept in the most perplexing state of bustle all this 
week by Bogers's delay of our departure : however, on 
Sunday he promises positively to be oC I will try and 
write again between this and then, and you shall hear from 
me as often while I am in France as possible. Bessy, too, 
shall write a line on the newspapers she sends you to 
tell you how I am. I expect much pleasure from the 
trip. 

I take a letter of cre^t for three hundred pounds; 
pretty well, youTl say I — but this is mere form, and only 
for the dash of the thing, as I dare say I shan*t draw more 
than thirty. Ever my darling mother's own, 

To3tf. 

[No. 377.] To his Mother. 

Hornsey, Saturday, 1817. 

My dearest Mother, 
I have come down here for a day or two, previous to my 
flight for France; and a bustling, crowded house I find it, 



1817.1 X-ETTERfi^ 123 

— ^Branigan, his wife, two children, and two servants, in ad- 
dition to our own establishment. Bessy has stowed us all 
away, though, very comfortably ; and when he is gone to 
Scotland, and /to Paris, which will be the beginning of 
next week, she will get on very well with her group till our 
return. It is very delightful to her to have her friend with 
her while I am away. 

I have seen the Daltons on their way to Paris. Poor 
fellow! his complaint seems to grow more near its &tal 
consummation every day. God bless my darling mother. 

Ever your own, 

Tom. 

My father has nothing to do with accounting for the 
difference of exchange : it is the same thing to the Long- 
mans and me, and only puts a few pounds more in his own 
pocket. How much does he receive for the twenty-five 
pounds Biitiah ? 



[No. 378.] To his Mother. 

Amiens, Julj 16. 1817. 

My dearest Mother, 

I seize one moment, on my way, to write a line (if this 

cursed French ink will write) to tell you that I am quite 

well and merry, and enjoying myself in this grotesque 

country amazingly. Oar passage from Dover to Calais 

was but three hours and a half, and I was as sick as need 

be ; but the journey hither j( we are within seventy or eighty 

miles of Paris) has quite set me up again : and I assure 

you, my own dears at home, that pleasant as this journey 

promises to be, I look forward to a still pleasanter one 

after it, in my trip to you all in Dublin. 

God bless my own darling mother. Wherever I am, 

yours ever affectionately, 

Tom. 



124 X.ETTEBS. [JEtat. 38, 



[No. 379.] To Mr. Power. 

Paris, August 7. 1817. 
My dear Sir^ 

Though I have hardly one minute for writing, and Bessy 
always claims the little minute I have^ yet^ as I promised 
you should hear from me^ here goes I Paris is the most 
delightful world of a place I ever could have imagined ; 
and^ really^ if I can persuade Bessy to the measure^ it is 
my intention to come and live here for two or three years. 
You must come and see it. Stevenson is not in very high 
force here ; the ice is too cold for his stomachy and he can* 
not get whisky-punch for love or money — accordingly he 
droops. I cannot make out well his designs or wishes with 
respect to his business with you; but he says^ that as to 
the two first years he has nothing to do with them; he has 
a receipt from you to prove their having been settled to 
your satisfaction. 

I am called away.' Best regards to Mrs. Power. Ever 

yours, 

T. Moore. 

[No. 380.] To his Mother. 

Wednesday, August 20. 1817. 
My dearest Mother, 

I have but this instant arrived safe and well, and am 
hastening, in great anxiety, to Homsey ; as I hear our 
poor dear Barbara is very ill indeed, from the fall she had 
a week ago. I suppose Bessy has told you of it. I have 
just seen Tegart; and I fear, from the way he speaks, that 
my dear child is in a very dangerous state. You shall 
know more by to-morrow's post. 

God bless my darling mother. Ever your own, 

Tom. 



1817.J LETTEBS. 125 

[No. 381.] To his Mother. 

Sept. 10. 1817. 
My dearest Mother, 

Barbara is not at all better ; indeed, this morning we 
have been in very great alarm about her; but the medical 
man, who has just left us, says she is not worse. K she 
should get a little better, I mean to go for a day or two to 
Xiord Lansdowne's, to look at a house which he has most 
friendlUy written to me about, which he thinks would suit 
me exactly. He has been searching his neighbourhood 
for a habitation for me in a way very flattering indeed from 
Buch a man. 

God bless my own dearest mother. Your 

Tom. 

[No. 382.] To his Mother. 

6^, Davies Street, Berkeley Square, 
Saturday, Sept. 20. 1817. 

It's all over, my dearest mother ; our Barbara is gone* 
She died the day before yesterday, and, though her death 
was easy, it was a dreadful scene to us both. I can bear 
such things myself pretty well ; but to see and listen to 
poor Bessy makes me as bad as she is. Indeed, my dear- 
est mother, you can only conceive what she feels by ima- 
gining me to have been snatched away from you at the age 
of Barbara. It will be some time before she can get over 
it ; but she is very sensible and considerate ; and her love 
for us that are left her will, I know, induce her to make 
every effort against the effect of this sorrow upon her mind, 
I succeeded yesterday in prevailing upon her to leave 
Homsey, and come up to Lady Donegal's house, where 
we are no^f , as retired (for the family are at Tunbridge) 



126 LETTERS. C^TAT. 38. 

and as comfortable as we could desire. It is a great 
consolation to us to reflect^ from what Duggan told 
us in Dublin^ and from what the medical men say here^ 
that if Barbara had lived she must have been always 
a suffering invalid from the bad state of her inward 
parts ; indeed^ Tegart says that the fall was not of itself 
the cause of her deaths but merely hastened what would 
otherwise have come on. God bless you. Ever your 
own affectionate^ 

Tom. 



[No. 383.] To his Mother. 

Thursday, 1817. 

My dearest Mother, 

Poor Bessy, though she neither eats nor sleeps enough 
hardly to sustain life, is getting somewhat more composed 
ya mind than she was, and will, I hope, soon recover from 
this sad shock. I shall, as soon as possible, go down to 
Lord Lansdowne's, who (I think I told you) wrote most 
fiiendlily to me to say he had been looking for a house in 
his neighbourhood for me. It would certainly be an object 
to be near such a man ; his library, his society, all would be 
of use to me ; not to mention the probability of his being 
some day or other able to do me more important services. 
Lady Donegal is very anxious that I should take the house 
he talks o£ 

We are anxious to hear from you. You had better 

direct to 56. Davies Street, Berkeley Square. We could 

not be more comfortable anywhere than we are here. Ever 

your own, 

Tom. 



1S17.] I.ETTEB8. 127 

CNo. 384.] To his Mother. 

Bowoodf Sundajr, Oct. 1817. 
My dearest Mother, 

I arrived here the day before yesterday, and found 
Kogers, Lord and Lady King, &a Yesterday I looked 
at the three houses Lord Lansdowne had thought of for 
me ; but Ihere is only one of them at all within my reach, 
a little thatched cottage, with a pretty gaxden, for 251. or 
SOL a-year : it is, however, I fear, too small and humble 
even for our pretensions. I shall not decide till I return to 
Bessy, which I hope to do on Wednesday or Thursday. 

It is a sad thing that my &ther cannot let his house; and 
I heartily wish it would suit us to live in Dublin, that I 
might take it from him. 

My leg is not the worse for the use I have been obliged 
to make of it. Ever your own affectionate, 

Tom. 



CNo. 385.] To his Mother. 

Saturday, Oct. 11. 1817. 

My dearest Mother, 

Bessy, who went off the night before last to look at the 
cottage near Lord Lansdowne's, is returned this morning, 
af^er travelling both nights. Power went with her. She 
is not only satisfied but delighted with it; which shows the 
humility of her taste, as it is a small thatched cottage, and 
we get it furnished for 40/. a year I This is cheap, God 
knows. I am nursing my leg, which is free of the inflam- 
mation that my journey produced, and I hope, by giving 
it fair play, it will soon get welL 

I have had so many letters to write to-day that my 



128 LETTERS. [iETAT.38, 

hand is quite weary. God bless mj dearest mother. Ever 

your own, 

Tom. 

[No. 386.] To Mr. PoOer. 

Sloperton, Devizes, Wednesday, Nov. 19. 1817. 
My dear Sir, 

We arrived safe, and are in possesion: all looks as if we 
were likely to be very snug. Our maids (servants being 
always the hardest to please) look a little sulky at the 
loneliness of the place ; but I dare say they will soon get 
reconciled. 

I am just sallying out to my walk in the garden, with 
my head full of words for the Melodies. You shall have 
them as I do them. Ever yours. 



T. MOOBE. 



The pianoforte ! the pianoforte ! 



f 



[No. 887.] To Mr. Power. 



Dec. 20. 1817. 



My dear Sir, 
I hope all the corrections will be particularly attended 
to, as well as the notes I have added. If possible let 
** Hark I the Vesper Hymn " come harmonised before the 
single setting. 

If you have any good place in the title-page, I should 
like to put this motto, ** Natur^ ad modes ducimur." Ever 
yours, 

T. M. 

I dare say the *^ Tell me not" is as bad as need be, but 
111 try again for you ; or is it that he will not sing any 
thing of mine ? 



1818.] LETTEBS. 129 

[No. 388.] To Mr. Power. 

Dec. 23. 1817. 
My dear Sir, '^ 

I am so anxious about a passage in one of the songs 

C^Dost thou remember"), that I cannot help writing 

expressly to have it re-corrected, though I hope it may 

have happened that my former correction is not yet under 

the tool of the engraver. Instead of 

^^ When, as the moonbeam fell tremblingly o'er thee 
And lit thy blushes : " 

let it be 

" When, as the moonbeam, that trembled o'er thee, 
Ulum'd thy blushes." 

This passage has bothered me more than enough. You 
shall have the preface in a day or two. It will be very 
short. You need not mind about the motto. Yours 
very truly, 

Thomas Moore. 



CNo. 389.] To Lady Donegal. 

Sloperton Cottage, Jan. 9. 1818. 

A pang of conscience has just come over me for having 
been so long without writing; and, in addition to this 
pang, I have just received the long-strayed letter from 
Calne, which has been half over the country, but has 
reached me at last safe and inviolate. We are getting on 
here as quietly and comfortably as possible ; and the only 
thing I regret is the want of some near and plain neigh- 
bours for Bessy to make intimacy with, and enjoy a little 
tea-drinking now and then, as she used to do in Derby- 

VOL. II. K 



130 LETTEBS. [^TAT. 38. 

shire. She continues, however, to employ herself very well 
without them ; and her fkvourite task of cutting out things 
for the poor people is here even in greater requisition than 
we bargained for, as there never was such wretchedness in 
any place where we have been; and the better class of people 
(with but one or two exceptions) seem to consider their 
contributions to the poor-rates as abundantly sufficient, 
without making any further exertions towards the relief of 
the poor wretches. It is a pity Bessy has not more means, 
for she takes the true method of charity, — that of going 
herself into the cottages, and seeing what they are most in 
want of. 

Lady Lansdowne has been very kind indeed, and has a 
good deal won me over (as, you know, kindness will do now 
and then). After many exertions to get Bessy to go and 
dine there, I have at last succeeded this week, in conse- 
quence of our being on a visit at Bowles's, and her having 
the shelter of the poet's old lady to protect her through the 
enterprise. She did not, however, at all like it; and I 
shall not often put her to the torture of it. In addition to 
her democratic pride, — which 1 cannot blame her for, — 
which makes her prefer the company of her equals to that of 
her superiors, she finds herself a perfect stranger in the midst 
of people who are all intimate; and this is a sort of digni- 
fied desolation which poor Bessy is not at all ambitious of. 
Vanity gets over all these difficulties ; but pride is not so 
practicable. She is, however, very much pleased both with 
Lord and Lady Lansdowne ; who have, indeed, been every- 
thing tiiat is kind and amiable to her. Her health is, I 
think, somewhat better; and littie Anastasia is perfectiy 
welL 

I trust, my dearest friend, that you have not had another 
attack since that which, I was grieved to find, you had 



1818.] tETTEBS. 131 

suffered when the last letter was written : pray mention 
always particularly how you find yourself. 

I am getting on wickedly with all the Fudges^ and you 
cannot think how much your list embarrasses me ; par- 
ticularly with respect to that " venerable and illustrious 
female," whom I have now such an excellent precedent for 
attacking in the Memoirs of the patriotic and disappointed 
Bishop Watson. She is, however, safe, though it has 
already cost me the strangling of two or three young 
epigrams iii.11ieir cradle. AU^ in fact, shall be safe, except 
Lord Sidmouth ; but that the author of the Circular, the 
patron of spies and informers, the father of the Green Bag, 
the eulogist of the Knights of Northampton (?), &c. &c., 
should not have a touch or two, is out of the nature of 
things. I only promise that he shall neither be called 
'* Doctor " nor ^* Old Woman," which is quite as much as 
his warmest friends could expect. 

Best love to sister Mary, and a thousand thaoks for her 
copying out the French verses, which I have not yet read. 
Ever yours faithfully, 

Thomas Moore. 

A kiss to Barbara. Does she get stouter? 

Jefirey's article is pretty fair, though within an inch, 
now and then, of being otherwise: but the Longmans 
write me word it will do the book much service, and they 
are the best judges. 



Cno. 390.] To his Mother. 

Saturday, March, 1818. 

My dearest Mother, 

We are still without a line from you, and I really begin 

to be apprehensive that something is the matter. We have 

k2 



132 LETTERS. [iETAT. 38. 

had most dreadful weather here; the paling before the 
house was all blown in, and we were left bare to the road. 
How have you fared in Jervis Street ? 

Did I tell you that, when I was in town, I received an 
anonymous letter from some young girl, inclosing three 
poundsy as a token of her admiration of Lalla Sookh ! It 
was wrong directed, and they made such work about it at 
the Post Office (as a property letter) that I really began to 
think there was something considerable in it; but I dare 
say it was as much to the poor girl as three hundred to 
another; and if every reader of Lalla Bookh would do the 
same, it would make us all pretty easy about money mat- 
ters. I laid out the sum immediately in two sixteenths, 
and I hope they will be lucky to me. 

They will soon go to press with a seventh edition of 
Lalla. 

Poor Bessy is ailing with her new edition, and is often 
very low-spirited ; but she keeps up for my sake, and does 
her utmost to make me happy and comfortable. God bless 
my darling father, and mother, and Nell. I often feel it 
dreary to be so long without seeing you all ; but before 
the spring is over we shall meet, please Heaven. Ever 
your own, 

Tom. 



[No. 391 .] To Lady Donegal, 

Sloperton, Devizes, April 2. 1818. 
I was just going to write to you, when I received your 
letter, and why I have deferred it so long since is more 
than I can satisfactorily explain to you, except that we are 
very often apt to take other people's performance of their 
duty for our own, I grieve, most heartily grieve, for the 



1818.] LETTERS. 133 

annopuice and embarrassment lliese wretched people in- 
flict upon you. I am afraid, after all, it is but a wicked 
world, and I am about too, myself, to be a victim of its 
wickedness. Within these twenty-four hours I have come 
to the knowledge of a circumstance which may very pos- 
sibly throw me into a prison for life. You know I have 
had a deputy at Bermuda ; he is nephew to very rich and 
respectable merchants (now my only hope), the Sheddons 
of Bedford Square. I had every reason to suspect his 
playing me false with respect to my share of the profits 
during the American war, and I had written so often in 
vain to demand his accounts for the laat year of the war, 
that I at last gave up the matter as hopeless. I had forgot 
both him and the office, when yesterday I was roused into 
most disagreeable remembrance of them by a monition 
from Doctors' Commons, calling upon me to appear there 
within fifteen days, in consequence of my deputy having 
refused to produce the proceeds of a sale of ship and cargo, 
which had been deposited in his hands during an appeal to 
the Court at home. I suppose the sum was considerable, 
and the fellow has absconded with it. I have no security 
for him, as the place was so mere a trifle at the time I 
appointed him, that no one would have thought it worth 
either asking or giving security ; and, at present, I see no 
chance for my escape but in the forthcomingness of his 
uncle Sheddon, who, as having recommended him to me, is 
bound, I think (at least in honour), to be answerable for 
the defalcation. J£ he (which is highly probable) refuses, 
I suppose I have nothing for it but a prison ; and all I 
shall ask of your friend Sir William Scott is, that he will 
either make interest for the Kules for me, or at least let 
me have two rooms in whatever dungeon is to receive me. 
I dreamt, about a week ago, that I was walking home in 

K 3 



134 LETTERS. [^TAT. 38. 

full sunshine^ and tbat suddenly a pitch-black cloud came 
all over the Aj, like the forerunner of an earthquake^ that 
made me cower down to the very earth, exclaiming, ** Oh, 
my dear Bessy and child I" Is this what they call one's 
dreams being outf Mind, I am only talking and antici- 
pating now from what appears on the face of the monition^ 
as I know nothing further of the particulars ; but I wrote 
by last night's post to the Sheddons, and on their answer 
must depend a good deal of my comfort 

And now that I have given you grievance for grievance, 
I must say that our dear Mary's ill health gave us both 
very real concern; and I trust when I go up to town I 
shall find her much better, as well as yourself, in every 
way, as you both richly deserve to be. 

Poor Bess, who — I don't know whether to be glad or 
sorry at it — is in the way of producing another little in- 
cumbrance for us (a little prisoner perhaps), is, as usual in 
that state, very weak and ailing. 

Your friends, the Fudges, are nearly out of hand. It 
was well this shock did not come upon me sooner, as it 
might, perhaps, (though I doubt whether it would,) have 
damped my gaiety with them ; but, I don't know how it 
is, as long as my consdence is sound, and that suffering ia 
not attended by delinquency, I doubt whether even a 
prison will make much difference in my cheerfulness: 
'^ Stone walls do not a prison make," &c. &c. I shall be in 
town next week. Ever yours, 

T. MOOBE. 

I need not remind you that this is not a case for inter- 
ference with Sir W. Scott, or any one. The thing must 
take its course ; and any interest you have must be re- 
served for my prison comforts. 



1818.] LETTEBS. 135 

[No. 392.] To Mr. Power. 

Monday, April 6. 1818. 

My dear Sir, 
I thought to have sent you back the proof of the duet 
by a parcel to the Longmans to-day ; but it cannot go till 
to-morrow ; and I can no longer delay congratulating you 
on the result of the arbitration, which, I conclude from 
what you say, is as favourable as you could desire ; I wish 
you joy upon it most sincerely. Your kind prayer for me 
on my wedding day has, I grieve to say, failed; and I 
have heard within these few days of a calamity which may 
have the effect of imprisoning me for life. My deputy at 
Bermuda, after keeping back from me my proper share of 
the receipts of the office, has now, it seems, made free with 
the proceeds of a sale of ship and cargo deposited in his 
hands, and / am called upon, by a monition from Doctors' 
Commons, to be accountable for it. I know not what may 
be the extent of his defalcation, but it may be more than I 
can even attempt to pay. What a life it is ! I am not, 
however, thank Heaven 1 at all cast down by the prospect : 
as it is not by my own misdeeds I shall suffer, there will 
be nothing in it to embitter my conscience, and I shall 
smile at Fortime still. They cannot take away from me 
either my self-respect or my talents, and I can live upon 
them happily anywhere. Good by, my dear friend ; I shall 
see you on Friday next. Best regards to Mrs. Power. 
From yours, very sincerely, 

Thomas Moobe. 



x4 



136 LETTERS. [-Etat. 38. 

[No. 393.] To his Mother, 

Sloperton Cottage, May 6. 1818. 

My dearest Mother, 

You cannot conceive how happy I am at finding myself 
quietly here again, out of the distracting bustle of London. 
I left my Bermuda affairs in as good train as I could, and^ 
as my deputy has some landed property, I am in great 
hopes the burden will not fall so heavy on me as I first 
apprehended. In the mean time do not you, my darling 
mother, feel the least uneasiness about either our comforts 
or your own. The sum is so lai^e that I could not think 
of attempting to pay it ; and, as in the processes of the 
Admiralty Court they cannot touch property , let the worst 
come, my means of supporting myself, and continuing to 
contribute the little I do towards your comforts, will not 
be in the least diminished by it. 

As soon as I rest a little, I hope to be off for about ten 
days (all I can spare now) to Dublin, and hope to find my 
own dears there well and comfortable. I want to per- 
suade Bessy to go on as far as Derbyshire with me, where 
she might stay among our friends there till my return ; 
but I am afraid she will not agree to it. 

I left tlie Fudges prospering amazingly in town, — five 

editions in less than a fortnight, — and my share for that 

time (I go half and half with the Longmans) was 350i 

Very convenient it was too, as I had overdrawn them ; 

and it not only paid what was over, but gave me some 

ready in my pocket besides. God bless my darling mother. 

Ever your own, 

Tom. 



1818.] LETTERS. 137 

[Xo. 394.] To Lady Donegal. 

Sloperton, May 17. 1818. 
I have been, not so much reproaching myself, as re- 
gretting that I did not get one shake of the hand from 
you before your flight ; but I had taken it into my head 
that Wednesday was to be the day of your departure (I 
find since it was the day of taking possession), and, ^ on 
Tuesday morning, I went very quietly to breakfast with 
you between eleven and twelve, but found nothing except 
Farrance, with a long list of memorandums in his hand, 
and myself and Childe Harold commemorated thereon. 
I was heartily mortified. How badly this world goes on 
with us all ! It used to be much better, I think ; or is it 
that the bitters always lie towards the bottom of the cup ? 
Your disappointment about the house is too bad; but it 
is lucky you do not like Brighton much, as you will have 
a regret the less. I mean to set off* this next week for 
Ireland. I shall be away but three weeks in all ; and for 
nothing but to gratify my poor mother (who is ill and out 
of spirits) would I leave just now my sweet, quiet cpt- 
tage, where, in spite of proctors, deputies, and all other 
grievances, I am as happy as, I believe, this world will 
allow any one to be ; and, if I could but give the blessing 
of health to the dear cottager by my side, I would defy 
the devil and all his works, and Sir William Scott to boot. 
Poor Bessy is not at all well, and though she is very 
generous and considerate about these absences from her, 
yet, in her low state of health and spirits, they are not by 
any means pleasant. I am happy to hear you speak of the 
good effects of Brighton upon your health, and, disagree- 
able as it is otherwise, I shall be glad to hear you are 
enabled to stay there. 



138 LETTEBS. L^TAT. 39. 

My Bermuda business remsuned^ when I left town^ in 
statu quo, ** nothing brighter or darker" than it was when 
I saw you. I have sent out a power of attorney to lay 
hold of whatever is forthcoming of my honest deputy's 
property, and I hope the person I have employed will do 
his duty. 

Let me have a line from you in Dublin, directed 39. 
Upper Jervis Street. I shall be most anxious to hear 
whether you have got another tenant. Bessy sends her 
best love. Ever faithftilly yours, 

Thomas Moobe. 



£No. 395 . ] From Mr. Jeffrey. 

Jordan's, St. James's Street, 
Tuesdaj, May 30. 1818. 

My dear Moore, 

What I inclose has been justly owing you, I am ashamed 
to say, ever since you were so kind as to send me that 

accoimt of M. de J I do not know how long ago ; 

but I did not know your address, and I neglect every- 
thing. Will you let me hope for a contribution from 
you some day soon ? 

I cannot from my heart resist adding another word. I 
have heard of your misfortunes, and of the noble way you 
bear them. Is it very impertinent to say that I have 
500/. entirely at your service, which you may repay when 
you please ; and as much more, which I can advance upon 
any reasonable security of repayment in seven years ? 

Perhaps it is very unpardonable in me to say this ; but 
upon my honour I would not make you the offer, if I did 
not feel that I would accept it without scruple from 
you. 



1818.] LETTERS. 139 

At all events, pray don't be angry at me, arid don't send 

me a letter beginning Sir. I shall ask your pardon with 

the truest submission if I have offended you ; but I trust I 

have not, at all events ; and however this end, no living 

soul shall ever know of my presumption but yourself. 

Believe me, with great respect and esteem, very faithfully 

yours, 

F. Jeffbey^ 



[No. 396.] To Mr. Fewer. 

Tuesday, June 16. 1818. 
My dear Sir, 

I was kept in such a state of bustle while in Dublin, 
that I had not a minute to write to you. I suppose you 
heard all the enthusiasm my visit excited there — the grand 
dinner to me — the design of making it an anniversary — 
my reception at the theatre, &c. &c. Nothing certainly 
was ever Uke it ; and, if I had stayed there a week longer, 
it was very confidently said there would be a deputation 
to ask me to stand for the city of Dublin. I shall never 
say that Paddy is not national again. 

I hope Mrs. P. is better. Ever yours, very sincerely, 

Thomas Moore. 



[No. 397.] To his Mother. 

August 1. 1818. 

My dearest Mother, 
I have been just writing a long letter to the great 
Grecian, Doctor Parr, with whom I have entered into a 
correspondence about Sheridan ; so that I have but a few 
nunutes left for you ; but I know a few words to tell you 
we are well and happy are to you 



140 LETTEBS. L^TAT. 39. 

'* Sweeter Uuin all the Heathen Greek 
That Helen spoke when Paris woo'd.** 

Will you tell Miss Creagh, if you ever see her, hovr 
grateful I am for her kind recollections in sending me the 
pretty music she promised, so beautifully written out. 
Don't forget this ! There was a concert in this neighbour- 
hood the other night, where they had got nothing almost 
but my things to be performed, in expectation that I 
should be there, but I was not 

Love to all around you. Ever your own, 

Tom. 



[No. 398.] To3Iiss Godfrey. 

Sloperton Cottage, Sunday, Oct. 11. 1818. 

I have only time to write you a few words, in order- to 
take advantage of a parcel I am sending to Power; but; 
you shall have more anon. The tone of your letter has 
saddened me not a little, — Lady Donegal in bad healthy 
and you evidently not at all in spirits ; this is sad work, 
and I wish from my soul I could do anything to mend 
it. As for myself, it is not true that there has occurred 
anything to darken the gloom of my Bermuda prospects : 
on the contrary, since I received your letter, I have had 
one from Bermuda of rather a comfortable nature , as, in 
the first place, it assures me of my having a man of re- 
spectability there (to whom I applied), ready and willing to 
look after my interests ; in the next place, it gives me in- 
telligence that my deputy has not absconded from the island, 
which I rather feared ; and, in the third place, it informs 
me that he has some property, which I much doubted. 

Rogers is expected here soon. I have not time for 
another word. Ever yours, 

T. MOOBE. 



181B.3 LETTERS. 141 

[No. 399.] To Mas Godfrey. 

Saturday, Oct. 24. 1818. 
My dear Mary, 

All's safe and well ; our darling Bessy is, at this mo- 
ment, lying snug and sniiling, with a little doy in her 
arms I 

I have not time for a word more, as I am writing dis- 
patches in all directions. God bless you, my dearest 
Mary. Ever yours, 

T. Moore. 

[No. 400.] To Miss Godfrey. 

Sunday, Nov. S. 1818. 
My dear Mary, 

I address you thus familiarly, because I am about to do 
a very familiar and (I am afraid, you will think) too friendly 
thing by you ; and that is, to make you godmother to our 
little Johnny Newcome. It is Bessy's wish; and as it 
makes no additional tie between us (for I am sure you feel 
quite as much interested about me and mine as if you 
*' were ten times our (god) mother'*), why, I don't see any 
great objection you can have to the ceremony. Your 
comperes are Lord Lansdowne and Dr. Parr, so that, as far 
as Greek and nobility go, you will be in good company. 

I am glad you are returning to your own couleur-de-rose 
state of mind again, and hope our dear Lady D. will con- 
tinue well enough to keep you in it. Poor Bess is not so 
stout as she was at first ; her efforts to suckle the little 
hero do not well agree with her, and I am afraid she must 
give it up. God bless you ever. Your gossip, 

T. M. 

%♦ These letters are many of them — most of them, I may say — 
vrithout a full date, and I fear seyeral have been wrongly placed. — J. R. 



I. 



DI AEY 



or 



THOMAS MOORE. 



^ 



DIARY 



oor 



THOMAS MOORE. 



1818* 

August 18tli. Went to Bath, on my way to Leamington 
Spa, for the purpose of consulting Mrs. Lefanu, the only 
Burviving sister of Sheridan, on the subject of her brother's 
life : meant to call also upon Dr. Parr, with whom I had 
Iiad a correspondence on the same subject. 

20th. Breakfast in the coffee-room. Found Mrs. Le« 
fanu — the very image of Sheridan, having his features with- 
out his carbuncles, and aU the light of his eyes without the 
illumination of his nose. Her daughter, who has written 
novels, seems amiable, and looked up to by father and 
mother. While I was there, and talking of Sheridan, Dr. 
Parr entered in full wig and apron (which he wears as 
prebendary of St. Paul's, and not unwilling, of course, to 
look like a bishop). I had written to him to say Mrs. L. 
was in his neighbourhood, and he came thus promptly and 
kindly to visit the sister of his friend ; a powerful old man 
both in body and mind. Though it was then morning, he 
drank two glasses and a half of wine ; and over that, when 
he was going away, a tumbler of the spa. Asked me to 
dine with him at an early hour the following day (Friday), 
and on Saturday to meet the Lefanus and the Duke o{ 
VOL. II. L 



/ 



146 DIABY OP [^Tl.T.39. 

G^rafton. Mrs. L. told me much about her brother. Dined 
with the Lefanus, and went m the evening to the Assembly 
— a galaxy of ugliness^ except one, with whom I wished 
to dance ; but the master of the ceremonies (a poor man^ 
who seemed there in the double capacity of inyalid and 
M* C.) told me she was engaged. Came home earlj^ 
supped in the public room, and met the Bumes &om Dub- 
lin, and old Wroughton, the ex-actor, whom I joined over 
a tumbler of brandy and water. Some tolerable stories 
told : mistakes in acts of Parliament — ^* the new gaol to 
be built from the materials of the old one, and the prisoners 
to remain in the latter till the former was ready" — a sen- 
tence of transportation of seven years, ^^ half to go to the 
king, and the other half to the informer ;" it had been, of 
course, formerly a pecuniary punishment, and, upon its 
being altered, they overlooked the addition. 

Parr, in the conversaticHi of the morning, had told me 
c^ a paper which ^ir W. Jones had written in French on 
the subject of the liberties of the people, which scnnebody 
else had translated into Wel^, and which from thence 
was rendered (by Bishop Shipley, I believe) into English^ 
and inserted in the papers of the Constitutional Society. 
I could not collect this at all accurately, on account of the 
thickness of Parr's utterance, to which it requires a little 
time to become accustomed.* 

21st. Warwick Castle; much struck by its grandeur* 
The grounds beautiful — the mill for grinding com, and 
making money by it, not at all in character with the 
romantic and baronial look of the place. From thence 

* Lord Holland used to say that it was most unfortunate for a man 
so full of learning and information as Dr. Parr, that he could not 
easily communicate his knowledge ; for when he spoke, nobody could 
make out what he said, and when he wrote, nobody cotdd r^ad his 
handwriting. — J. R. 



Aug. 1818.] THOMAS MOOBE. 147 

went to Kenilworth — fine ruins^ but ought to be seen be^ 
fore Warwick Castle. Dined with Dr. Parr: himself, his 
wife, and a friend he called ** Jack,'' a clergyman of 1000/. 
a year, who lives in his neighbourhood^ very much de-. 
voted to him, and ready at a call to come and write letters 
for him, &c« &c.; his own hand being quite illegible (see 
what he says of it in preface to ^^ Fox's Characters "). He 
was very cordial and animated ; hob-nobbed with me acrosa 
the table continually ; told me he had written whole sheets 
c^ Greek verses against Big Ben (the B^ent) ; showed I 
them to me : the name he designated him by, I saw, was. 
^^vcKt&Vy inflated or puffy. Told me they were full of wit, 
which I took his word fen*, as they seemed rather puzzling 
Greek. Talked a good deal of Halhed, Sheridan's friend, 
and mentioned a curious interview which took place be- 
tween them about the time of Hastings' business, by his 
(Parr^s) intervention, in consequence of an attack made 
by Major Scott upon Fox in the House, charging him with 
having set on foot a negotiation with Mr. Hastings some 
years before* Fox, who knew nothing of the matter, had 
nothing to say in reply. Scott was present at this inter- 
view procured by Parr, and it appeared that the nego- 
tiation had been set on foot without the knowledge of Fox, 
and that Sheridan was the chief agent in it. An expla- 
nation was accordingly made next night in the House by 
Scott. Parr's account of the abuse he poured out upon 
Scott at that interview — "Hot scalding abuse; it was 
downright lava, sir." Spoke of the poem of Fracastorius 
as very nearly equal to VirgiL Left him early and went 
to a play at Leamington, ordered by the Duchess Dowager 
of Rutland. A nice girl played a male part in the farce, y 
a Miss Ivers, dressed in the most exquisite extreme of 
dandyism, and looking as like a man as any of the brother-* 

L 2 



148 DIARY OP [iETAT.8^. 

hood. On tlus daj, when I went to my inn to dress, the 
landlord's sister gave me a letter, on opening which I saw 
it was poetry. ** Here," said I, ** some one has sent me 
a poem*" *' That, sir, is like sending coals to Newcastle,'* 
replied the young Bonifacia, who was an Irish girl just 
imported. 

22nd. The deaf man gave me a pamphlet, by a Mr. 
Payne, to read, in answer to Lord Somers's attack upon 
the Keformers : read it at breakfast : very sensibly done 
— strong things in mild language. Went to Mrs. Lefanu, 
and received from her some papers relating to her brother ; 
among others, letters from Mrs. Canning, aunt t<^the Right 
Honourable, giving particulars of the last moments of Mrs. 
Sheridan, whom she left all her family to attend to Bristol 
Dined with Dr. Parr ; the Duke of Grafton, the lion of 
the day ; young Seymour, a nephew of Lord Hertford's ; 
the Biimes, Lefanus, &c. &c. The doctor was glorious, 
often very eloquent, always odd ; said there was no such 
man as Homer ; that there were various poems tacked to^ 
gether by a collector, who was called * Ofirjpos (from o/xov, 
Bimuly and d/Mo, apto) — that this was now the general 
opinion of the learned. He had told me before dinner that 
we Irish started with a blunder in the name we gave our 
St. Patrick, which meant the Devil, his real name being Sue- 
cat ; but the Pagan priests called him Patric^ which meant 
an evil spirit : took down Vallancey's *^ Collectanea" to 
prove it to me. He mentioned after dinner the witticism 
that made Crassus (I think) laugh, for the only time in 
his life : *^ Similes habent labra lactucas." He said it was 
in Bayle. I mentioned that I had also, I thought, seen it 
in Erasmus's ^* Adagia." ^* Very likely. What a book that 
is ! what a condensation of learning 1 " I quoted Morhof 's 
** Polyhistor." ** Have you a * Morhof?'" he exclaimed; 



Aug- 1818.] THOMAS MOORE. 149 

*' read him day and night.'* He had before dinner pointed 
out an anecdote to me in Gesner's ** Isagoge," and advised 
me to get the book. Has a contemptuous opinion (which 
he is but too well justified in) of our Irish scholars ; says 
we have had none since Archbishop Usher. N. B. 1 be- 
lieve he claims descent &om the Dr. Parr that was Usher's 
chaplain. His models of good English writing are^ among 
others^ Bishop Shipley, Uvedale Price, and Sheridan. 
Mentioned the freedom with which he had criticised to 
Fox himself his letter to the electors of Westminster — 
** your acquittal I confidently expect," a false use of the 
"word ; also his use of the word *^ defer" (which Foi, by the 
bye, has employed in the same manner in his ^f History") ; 
and the cant phrase of ** I am free to say." * Had corrected 
me the day before for saying medi^cinal, which he accents 
medici^nal; he would say, also, inexo'rable, irrevo'cable, 
&c &c The Duke of Grafton said he had succeeded 
Sheridan, within a few years, at Harrow, and found his 
memory preserved very affectionately there, his poems re- 
peated, and a room called after his name ; quoted a trans- 
lation of Pindar, by Richard Archdall, a schoolfellow of 
Sheridan's. Young Seymour, a pupil of Anthology Bland, 
who lives in the neighbourhood of Parr, and had quarrelled 
with him from (as well as I could understand) a mutual 
spirit of contradiction. Betumed to my inn at ten o'clock ; 
supped in the public room — Wroughton and brandy and 
water again, and both very pleasant. A gentleman told a 
punning epigram of Jekyl's upon an old lady being brought 
forward as a witness to prove a tender made : 

" Grarrow, forbear ! that tough old jade 
Can never prove a tender maid." 

23d. Left Leamington to return home by way of Bir- 
floingham. In the coach as far as Hatton, agentleman^ 

L 3 



-\ 



150 DIARY OF tiETAT. 39. 

who had gone for two successive Sundays, and breakfasted 
and dined at a little public-house in the village, for the 
purpose of seeing Parr, and hearing him read j»^yers, but 
was disappointed each time, both morning and evenings 
was going now to make a third trial Alone from thence 
to Birmingham, reading Horace all the way. From Bir- 
mingham had a Quaker lady in the coach, who had been 
poisoned by applying nightshade to her ann for the tic 
douloureux. A cloddish beau, who could not speak a 
word of decent English, joined us, with a little footman in 
gaudy livery, of whom he seemed to be more careful than 
if it had been his wife ; had him inside the coach, and 
brought him into the same room with us at supper, — a 
footman evidently a new circumstance to him. This dandy- 
found me out by the name on my trunk, and my having- 
said I lived sometime in Leicestershire — proved to be the 
son of the extraordinary man alluded to Ijy^Southey in 
his Espng lla letters, who had a museum of the ropes in 
which various malefactors had been hanged, all ticketted 
and hung in order rotmd his room. If I recollect rights 
Southey says his own ought to have completed the collec- 
tion. He was, notwithstanding this ferocious taste, a 
poor, weak, squeaking, unmanly mannered old creature ; 
for I knew him a little. The hc^eful son left us at 
Tewkesbury, where we took in a young man, who became 
very lively and intelligent in the morning. When we 
arrived at the Bush Inn at Bristol, the Quaker lady, who 
was a very amiable kind of person, and had been very 
attentive to my conversation with the rc^e-virtuoso's 
son, told the gentleman who I was; upon which he 
pressed me very cordially either to stay then in Bristol, 
or come over to his father's house within the following 
month, that he might show me the country, &c. &c* 



Auo. 1818.] THOHAS HOOBE. 151 

Bib name is Biiglit, and he eeemed to be intiniate with 
Jefirey and other literary men, — this worth inquiriiig 
about. 

24th. Arrived at my cottage. Always glad to return 
to it, and the dear girl who makes it so happy for me. 
JB'ound heaps of letters, some of them from poets and 
authors, who are the pest of my life: — one sending me a 
** Serio-comic Drama of Invasion, in Three Acts, including 
the Vision and the Battle," and referring me for his poetic 
credentials to three admirals and ^^ the late comptroller of 
the navy!^ Another beting to know whether I was 
acquainted with ^^any man or woman to whom money 
was for a time useless," who would venture 100/. upon a 
literary speculation he had in hand. The third letter from 
an eternal Amelia Louisa, announcing to me that her long 
threatened MS. was on its way to Wiltshire for my 
perusal. 

26th. Answered the author who wanted the ^^ useless 
money:" told him I, at least, had none of that description^ 
—very sorry, &c., &c Wrote also to the poetical grocer's 
apprentice in Dublin, from whom I had had a long letter 
the week before, complaining that I had left his MSS. 
when I came away unfolded, and '^ open to the gaze of 
every one;" assured him I was sorry for the accident, 
which was owing to the carelessness of the person to whom 
I entrusted them, and concluded my letter thus, " wishing 
you all success in that line of life, from which it would be 
cruel to divert you by any false hopes of literary emi-y 
nence, I am, &c &c." Began ** Holcroft's Memoirs," — hid[ ^ 
description of the life of a Newmarket boy, very curious ) 
and interesting. I wish every literary man would write 
his own memoirs. Looked over the notes Mrs. Lefanu 
had written on Watkins' life of her brother; little in 

l4i 



152 PIABY OF [^TAT.89. 

them; cbieflj about her father's respectability, &c. Sec, J 
which, though very interesting to herself, has little to do 
with my object, Richard Brinsley: the letters of Mrs. 
Canning very useful for my purpose, as showing Brinsley 's 
private character in an amiable point of view. 

27tlL Finished '* Holcroft's Memoirs," and worked at 
my " Life of Sheridan." 

28th. Heard of my dear sister Elate having been safely 
delivered this day week of a little girL My fifty-nine 
volumes of" Annual Registers" arrived. Bessy and Mary 
Dalby and myself very busy in making room for them on 
the shelves, and putting them up. 

29th. Began reading Mrs. Crouch's " Memoirs :" stated 
there that Sheridan had written the " Songs of Tickell's 
Carnival of Venice," — is this true? Wrote to Lord 
Byron, and, mentioning my Bermuda calamity, said, " This ' 
may have the effect of confining me to the Rules for life ; 
but 7i' importe — unity of place is one of Aristotle's rules ; 
and, as a poet, I shall easily learn to conform to it." Re- 
ceived a kind note from Sir F. Burdett, asking me and 
Mrs. M. over to Ramsbury Manor, to meet Lady Charlotte 
Fitzgerald, I. Hobhouse, &c. Believe I shall go. Played 
and sung over some of those divine things in Latrobe's 
" Collection of Sacred Music." A good story in Mrs. C.'s 
** Memoirs " of Stephen Kemble, who, sleeping at an inn 
in a country town, was waked about daybreak by a strange 
figure, a dwarf, standing by his bed in extraordinary at- 
tire. Kemble raised himself up in the bed, and questioned 
the figure, which said — " I am a dwarf, as you perceive; 
I am come to exhibit at the fair to-morrow, and I have 
mistaken the bedchamber : I suppose you are a giant come 
for the same purpose." 

September 1st. My Sheridan task in the morning: in- 



-/ 



((UNIVT^RSITI 

asPT. 1818.] THOMAS MOORE. \.Ca ^153 ^^ K , 

temipted by Bowles, who never comes amiss ; theimrtTrm--'''*"''''^'^ 
of talent and simplicity in him delightfiiL His parsonage- 
house at Brenhill is beautifully situated; but he has a 
good deal frittered away its beauty with grottos, her- 
mitages, and Shenstonian inscriptions : when company is 
coming he cries, ** Here, John, run with the crucifix and ^ 
missal to the hermitage, and set the fountain going." His 
sheep bells are tuned in thirds and fifths ; but he is an ex- 
cellent fellow notwithstanding ; and, if the waters of his 
inspiration be not those of Helicon, they are at least very 
sweet waters, and to my taste pleasanter than some that 
are more strongly impregnated. 

2nd. Received a letter from Power, which will make it 
necessary for me to go to town — a most unseasonable in- 
terruption. A collection of translations from Meleager 
sent to me, with a dedication to myself, written by a 
Mr. Barnard, a clergyman of Cave Castle, I think York- 
shire : they are done with much elegance ; I had his MS. 
to look over. 

3rd. Wrote shoals of letters. This light skirmishing of 
letter-writing exhausts one's ammunition, both of time and 
thought, most cruelly. Did some sentences of Sheridan's 
life : went in the evening with the Phippses to a Melksham 
concert ; joined by the Hugheses, from Devizes, who 
brought an author with them, a Eev. Mr. Joyce, who, they 
tell me, wrote the " Modem Parnassus " some years ago. 
He made not a bad pun in the course of the night. A 
seat on which Mrs. Mole was sitting gave way ; and he 

said ** Mole ruit su&P Met there the son of a 

apothecary, who affects to be (and calls it) '* a litelaly 
man." This gentleman turns all his r's into fs, and told 
me, the first day he called upon me, *' that he was a litelaly 
man himself; though he never lote a leal line of poetly in 



154 DIABT OF r^TAT.S9. 

his life.** The concert was bad enough. They had twke 
before prepared a bill of fare out of my things, expecting 
I would come : this night there was nothing of mine, but 
we sent a man and mare to the cottage for a copy of the 
** National Melodies," that they might ang '^ Hark I the 
Vesper Hymn," which Bowles had told me they did welL 
The man threw down the mare and broke her knees ; and^ 
after all, the glee was most doleful : wished to get up a 
dance, and, upon applying to Marshall, the master of the 
ceremonies, who was there, he said he would ask some of 
*^ the violoncello gentlemen" to play for us ! Horror of 
horrors ! how they would have been shocked : I entreated 
him not to think of such a thing. 

4tL A good typographical mistake in the ^' Freeman's 
Journal" It gives the new Secretary's (Grant) speech on 
the Catholic question, in the year 1813; and there is a 
passage where he says of the bigoted adversaries of the 
Catholics, ** They have taken up a position in the depth of 
the middle ages;" instead of which he is made to say, 
*^ They have taken up a physician in the depth," &c. The 
*^ Freeman's Journal " is often very ingenious in this way. 
I remember its telling us that " Dr. Lawrence, the cele- 
brated civilian, was very dangerously disposed.^ Worked 

' at Sheridan a little, and went to dine at Bowood. Found 
Lord Lansdowne in the garden, with Vernon (the Arch- 
bishop's son), and a Frenchman, a tall, talking, twisting, 
and gesticulating fellow, with a small dandy French hat cm 
the top of his head. Was told, to my surprise, by Vernon, 
that he was a judge, come to study our jurisprudence, &a 

I Very unlike our Ellenboroughs and Abbots. The dinner 
amusing enough. I mentioned the mistake in the *' Free- 
man's Journal," which brought out some good instances of 
typographical errors. Professor Playfair's advertisement 



Sept. 18180 THOMAS MOOBB. 156 

of a '* Syllabus or Heads of Lectures " was all last year 
inserted as ** Heaps of Lectures." Bowles mentioned a 
doctor somebody^ correcting his sermon through the press, 
but not knowing the method ; in consequence of which a 
sentence stood thus, *^ Christ, Italic ; Son of, Boman, God.** 
Talked of Mitford's " Harmony of Languages," praised by 
Lord L. His ** History" — the bad taste of carrying back 
the virulence of modem politics into a history of the 
Grecian republic. It was remarked as a singular thing, 
that the two historians of Greece and of Home (Gibbon 
and Mitford) were both colonels in the Hampshire militia. 
Talked of Malone — a dull man — his white-washing the 
statue of Shakspeare, at Leamington or Stratford (?), and 
General Fitzpatrick's (Lord L.'s imcle) epigram on the 
subject — very good — 

'* And smears his statue as he mars his lays.** 

Dumont read aloud some most ridiculous things in a dedi- 
cation by Didot, the printer, to his son, " voyageant dans 
Ja Troade," of a tragedy called ** Annibal," which old 
Didot himself had written : he asked him whether he had 
called up the shade of Annibal,''and hopes he had consoled 
the said " ombre " by repeating some of his (the fatiier's) 
tragedy to it ; with much more inconceivable stuff. Bowles, 
who cannot speak French, holding a conversation with the 
judge, and bellowing out to him, as if he was deaf — highly 
amusing — asking him " did he know Nancy f^ pronoun- 
cing it in the English way. The night very rainy ; slept 
at Bowood. 

5th. Found dear Bessy just going to breakfast. In 
telling them the mistakes in tiie press mentioned tiie day 
before, recollected one I observed in the American edition 
of " Giffard's Juvenal," when I was at New York. It was 



156 DIABY OP 1-Etat. 39. 

Very beautifully printed, &c. &c., but in the prefaxje, 
where he draws a parallel between Horace and Juvenal, 
and says, " Horace was of an easy disposition, inclining to 
indolence," they turned it into " inclining to insolence." 
I remember another error of the press that happened in 
some of Erasmus's works, where he had described the 
philosophers of Greece as haidng lived chiefly ** in mendici'- 
tate^ the printer, as if he had had " GrtBcia mendax^ in 
his mind, made it ** in mendacitateJ* Wrote a little of 
Sheridan. Read a little of " Balzac's Letters," One may 
apply to him what he says of some one else, ^* II vaudroit 
mieux Hre un peu etourdi que de prendre tant de peine 
k gtre sage." 

6th. Noted down some things about Sheridan from 
Holcroft's and Mrs. Crouch's "Memoirs." Looked over the 
life and anecdotes prefixed to the " Beauties of Burke." 
One of his phrases was the " first blood bud " of the French 
Revolution. Dined at half past two, and went to church. 
The psalm singing execrable, actual suffering to listen to 
it ; and if penance and mortification be good for the soul^ 
both preacher and singers inflict them on me abundantly 
at churcL What an admirable epigram is that — 

" If on penitence bent, you wish to keep Lent, 
Just go to the Foundling, and hear Dr. Dent, 
And ril be dwoan^d/or you, if you don't repent." 

To-morrow off* for town. 

7th. Took a chaise to Devizes, and went from there 
outside the coach to Marlborough. Saw a man in a 
foreign pelisse lying across the top of the coach reading 
a pamphlet, whom I suspected I knew : turned out to be 
I Eit Hutchinson, brother of Lords Hutchinson and Do- 
noughmore, just come from being made M. P. for Cork. 
Was sure he was going to Burdett's, being quite of that 



Sept. 1818.] THOMAS MOOBE. 157 

kidney; but he was for town. Told me Burdett liad 
made converts in Ireland; among others^ Lord Dysart> 
once a rank Tory. Lord D. had frightened that black 
bigot^ Saurin^ out of his wits, by enmneratLag among the 
measures that must soon be conceded. Reform and Catholic 
Emancipation, Saurin near falling off his horse at the 
sound. This all owing to Burdett. Hutchinson con- 
gratulated me on my triumphant dinner in Dublin, and I 
returned him the same on his at Cork ; where, by-the-bye, 
they hipped and hurraed me as '* the Poet, Patriot, and 
Pride of Ireland." I am becoming a stock toast at these 
dinners. Had seen, this very morning, an account of a 
dinner to Mr. Denny, of Cork, where I was drunk as 
^* Poet and Patriot, with great Applause." Took a chaise 
from Marlborough to Burdett's, — six miles, — Burdett and 
Hobhouse out shooting. The Fitzgeralds gone that 
morning to Sir Charles Hastings ; was very sorry I had 
missed seeing her.* The company at Burdett's were the 
two Hobhouses, Scrope Davies, a little doctor who attends 
Lady Burdett, and a Mr. Maxwell. Davies, in fishing 
that morning, had caught his eye with the hook, but no 
great harm done. Walked with him and Mr. Maxwell to 
Ramsbury, to have leeches applied to the eye. We 
laughed about Douglas Eannaird's patriotic dinner at the 
Horns at Kennington {5s, a head) in honour of the *^ Father 
of Reform," Major Cartwright. Davies proposed calling 
Cartwright " the Mother of Reform instead ; " he is a 
most mischievous old woman. — His taking the **brevia 
Parliamentaria" of Prynne for ** short parliaments," ad- 
mirable. Lord Lansdowne told me he was with Lord 
Holland when the letter containing this precious bit of 

* Lady Charlotte Fitzgerald, sister of Lord Moira, married to 
Mr. Fitzgerald. 



/^ 



158 DIABT OF L^TAT.39. 

erudition arrived. Sat down to dinner without Burdett 
and Hobhouse. Davies told me that Berkeley Craven 
called the permission the Jews gave him to come over 
hem. Paris and try his chance at Newmarket tor a month, ' 
*' the Jews* Pass-over." A good story of B* Craven and 
Lord Alvanly^ when an accident happened to their car- 
riage : the former getting out to thrash the footman, saw 
he was an old fellow, and said, " Your a^e protects you : ^ 
while Alvanly, who had advanced towards the postillion 
with the same intention, seeing he was an athletic young 
fellow, turned from him saying, in his waggish way, 
** Your 1/autk protects you," Two Miss Burdetts at 
dinner, — nice ^rls. Burdett's style of living not at all 
equal to his means, either in expense or elegance. With 
such a fortune, he ought to make his private life a sort of 
counteraction to the plebeian tendency of his poUtics; 
like Washington, who threw all the graces and courtesies 
of aristocratic ceremony round his republican court ; and 
unlike his successor, Jefferson, who seemed to delight in 
vulgarising democracy to its lowest pitch. Burdett, a | 
most amiable man, something particularly attaching in hia 
manner ; his gentleness, and almost bashftilness, forming 
such a contrast to the violence of his public career. He * 
is, however, but a boy in wisd(»n, and, though he speaks 
plausibly, he is neither very sensible, nor deeply informed 
upon any subject. I speak but from superficial knowledge 
of him. Hobhouse and other men, who know him better, 
think much more highly of him. Music in the evening. 
Second Miss B. sung very prettily, and Davies delighted 
with the share he himself took in the ** Waters of Baby- i 

Ion," a chant of Purcell's, which he had given Miss B. 

8tL Walked out, after breakfasting and writing to ' 
Bess (my daily task when away from her), with H., D., 



asaPT. 1818.] THOMAS MOOB£« 159 

and Burdett, throagh Lord Ayleslmiy's forest. Magni- 
ficent I could ramble through forest scenery for ever : there 
is less of the world there than anywhere else, except on the 
ocean, if one was cdone on it. Talked much of Lpeland, 
irith which Burdett is delighted; he told me if I would 
collect proofs against Lord Castlereagh's ministry in Ire- 
land, and draw np resolutions, he would more them in the 
House, and impeach him ; but the thing is gone by. He 
18 evidently prejudiced againsl^ Grattan, and did not show 
quite a right feeling on the late outrageous attack upon 
that noble old man in Dublin; he wants (what so many 
want) candour. Curran evidently the favourite of the 
whole party ; and, no doubt, was far above Grattan in wit 
and genius, but still farther hehw him in real wisdom and 
goodness. I told stories of Curran which made them laugh 
a good deal ; his adventure at Oxford with Beinagle and 
his man JohiL; his speech to the Englishman who was 
laughing at him on the top of the coach, "May God 
Almighty never humanise your countenance, you odious 
baboon;" and many others. Talked of the intercourse of 
men o( letters with the great ; the story of a man who had 
been ceremoniously yielding precedence to another at some 
nobleman's house, but, upon hearing he was only a poet, 
saying, **0h, then, I know my place," and instantly 
stepping before him : authors, ^^Jiers dans leurs ecrits et 
rampans dans les antichamhres,^^ At dinner, besides the 
party of the day before, old Crowe, the author of " Lew- 
esdon Hill," a good poet, and a man of simple manners ; 
but his day of talent gone by. Translation by a school- 
boy of "they ascended by ladders," — "ascendebant pet 
adolescentiores " (the comparative degree of lad, L e, ladder). 
Music in the evening. Burdett's third daughter, Johanna, 
an exceedingly pretty girL Davies's '^ Waters of Babylon " 
again set a-going. 



160 DIABT OF LjEtat.'i 

9tli. Walked to Bamsbiuy at seven in the moi 
and took the Marlborough coach. Arrived in Liondoa 
half-past six m the evening, and dined at the George 
Coventry Street, and found that Power had taken 1< 
for me in Duke Street, 33, and that mj brother-in-kl 
Scully, was in town,* 

10th. Found Scully at the Hummums; he had 
Irish Johnstone in the coach from Liverpool, who 
been extremely kind to him. Called with him on Jo) 
stone, who told me that Sheridan one night came 
Drury Lane tipsy, when the *• School for Scandal" wi 
acting, went into the Green Koom when it was over, anj 
asked what play it was. Wroughton gravely told him,^ 
" And who was it," he said, *Hhat acted the old fellow, — 
Sir Peter what-d'ye-call'm ? " " Matthews, sir." « Never 
let him play it again ; he looks like an old pastry-cook." 
*' I am sorry, Mr. S, (says Wroughton), to say that we 
seldom see you here, and you never come but to find 
fault." Wroughton was always sturdy with him. Saw 
Wilkie the bookseller ; nothing decided yet between him 
and Murray as to the publication of Sheridan's works. 
Mentioned that the *^ Duenna" ran sixty-five nights with 
the exception of the Fridays, on which day Leone the 
Jew could not act. Said that Sheridan had agreed for 
the music with (I forget the name of the musicseller) at 
30/. for every three successive nights, and made a good 
, deal of money by it Called on the Longmans: the 

"^j "Fudges" soon going to press for another edition; they 
are very anxious for the "Fudges" in London, but I am 
still doubtful as to the good taste of following up the 

— \ blow. Went to my proctor about the Bermuda business ; 

* Mr. Scully married Miss Catharine Moore. 



9. 1818.1 THOMAS HOOBK. 161 

or 

filing farther can be known till November. Dined with 

'^^'""jwer (John Scully and I), and went to Co vent Garden 

^ ^ the evening : « School for Scandal" and « Tom Thumb.'* 

""^'^'he first appearance of Farren from Dublin; an excellent 

''®'^^or; enthusiastically received. 

^^/^' 11th. Mr. Hamilton the printer, who was once pro- 
rietor of the " Critical Review," called upon me with a 
UD*' 'fetter of introduction from WiUde. Came to propose to 
C(/F0p»^0e to be editor of a new Monthly Review; explained 
imi^pg plan, and said, with a true tmding spirit, that 
w ¥■ te intended the politics of the work should be Whiggish, 
y^'^cause those appeared to be becoming the fashionable 
i^i^ politics of the day. I declined, of course ; told him that, as 
^^'^^ long as the little fancy and originality I possess remained^ 
^^'I should not take to reviewing; but when I become in- 
^' valided, I shall look upon the editorship of a review as a 
P^' good sort of Greenwich Hospital to retire to. Two other 
^' monitions served upon me from the Court of Admiralty 
^^^ for the defalcation of my deputy. Called at Carpenter's, 

ill « 

^ and had the triumph of telling him the liberal conduct of 
^^' the Longmans to me about the profits of the " Fudges ; " 
' ' such a contrast to his own I Bought a pretty gown at 
'^' Hodgkinson's, to send by Scully to my sister. Dined at 
'^^' the George with Scully, and went alone to the Haymarket 

^ Theatre: ** Honeymoon" and the ** Green Man;" Major 

,•1 f 

■ Dumpling in the latter by Tokeby excellent; a pretty 
' girl. Miss E. Blanchard, who moves her head like a man- 
darin, when' 'tis near stopping. Why are there not more 
' pretty girls on the stage? Beauty is at least the next 
thing to first-rate acting ; and I agree with that French 
Actress who, when told that the *^ premier principe" of 
her art was attention to costume, answered, ** le premier 
principe d'une femme c'est de paroitre jolie." Met Scully 

I YOL. II. M 



/ 



/ 



162 DIAHT OF [iETAT.39. 

at supper afterwards at the York Hotels in St James's^ a 
diabby little place^ but cheap and civil; two primary 
reccHnmendations to the poor and proud. 

12th. Breakfasted at Power's^ and made the assign-^ 
ments of my works to him under our seven years' deed. 
His attorney had proposed a draught of a new agreement 
for us to enter into^ and both pressed me to it very 
anxiously ; but though it is a very comfortable certainty for 
me (500/. a-year), and he is as liberal a man as I could 
have to deal with, I shall not be in a hurry to re-embark 
into the concern, imtil he and I and his brother have 
settled all past transactions together. Walked out with 
him and Scully to Miss Russel's school in Cadogan Place^ 
to call upon a young Derbyshire girl who is there learning 
to be a teacher ; her sisters and she being reduced to keep 
schools by the death of their parents — poor things. I 
wish them luck in their new life, and as few dunces to deal 
with as possible. Called upon Shee, the painter, in order 
to show Scully the pleasant spectacle of an Irishman and a 
Catholic prospering among the grandees of England, with- 
out the surrender of one honest Irish or manly principle. 
His copy of his own picture of me not so good as the 
original. The miniature copy in Carpenters possession 
being seen by a stranger passing the shop (I mean a stran- 
ger to me), he went in and offered Carpenter forty-five 
guineas for it. Left a message for Woolriche, who had 
called at my lodgings, to say that he would find us at the 
George at five o'clock. He joined us; had just left 
Wobum, and had been paying visits with the Duke at 
Lord Grey's and Lord Huntley's : spoke of the former 
(Lord Grey), as a family man, with aU the admiration and 
enthusiasm he deserved : it is indeed a noble thing to see 
this high unbending politician in the bosom of his happy 



S&PT. 1818.] THOUA8 MOOBE. 163 

family, joying with the young ones like a schoolfellow, 
and listening to the music of the elder girls with all the 
attention and deligfai of a lover. He is, I have no doubt, 
proud and aristocratic, and looks as loftily down upon us 
untitled ones as the rest of his caste ; but, speaking of him 
in his own sphere, he is a truly noble fellow, and joins 
more the solidity of the shaft with the omamaits of the 
capital than any of his caste. 

Went in the evening to the English Opera ; could not 
stand its dulness, aud set off to the Coburg Theatre — 
pretty, gay-looking house, but duller still than the other. 
Went back to the Lyceum,' and attained the summum 
bonum of stupidity. Afterwards met Scully and Wool- 
riche at the York, and finished the night with oysters and 
brandy. 

13tL Met Scully at break&st at the George, and set 
off with him walking for Homsey *, in order to visit the 
grave of my poor Barbara, and report to Bessy whether it 
was kept as neat and sacred bs she could wish. Felt it 
less this time than I did some months since, when I went 
to the church-yard alone and had nothing to divert me 
from the melancholy train of thinking it led to. That 
space which is left upon the stone for other names is a 
frightful blank. I showed him the cottage at the foot of 
Muswell Hill where we lost this dear child, and to the 
gate of which she had so often run to meet me. We dined 
at the Sun at Highgate, and walked home in the evening; 
Scully a good, honest, manly-minded fellow. Packed up 
for my departure next morning, and supped with S. at the 
York. 

* On our way, called at Perry's. S. delighted with the beanty of 
his houfiie and library. Agreed how gratifying it was, in these times of 
apostasy and servility, to see one man prospering on the side of inde- 
pendence and consistency. 



164 PIABT OIP [^TAT.8^ 

14th* Started In the coach for Devizes at six o'clock ; 
mj neighbour McDonald (who had secured the places for 
us), his friend Capt. Davis, and myself inside, and Scully 
outside ; mentioned to M^D. that I had met Thompson, 
who had gone out as comptroller of Lord Hastings* house* 
hold, and was told by him that he had remitted home 
twelve thousand some hundred pounds every year while he 
was with him. This, however, is but a drop in the ocean 
of his embarrassments. McDonald said Thompson's comp- 
troUership had been found troublesome by Lord H., which 
was the cause of his leaving him. Breakfasted at Salt 
Hill, dined at Newbury, and arrived at half-past six at 
Devizes ; saw my servant- boy there, and was alarmed by 
hearing my dear Anastasia had been ill when he came out, 
but on arriving at home found it was nothing. Bessy, as 
usual, all delight to have me at home again, and happy to 
see ** honest John," as she calls Scully. Supped heartily, 
and, after reading a little of poor Halked's ravings about 
Brothers (where he shows ** by elaborate calculations that 
the Millenniiun was to commence on the 19th of Novem- 
ber next (1795), at or about sunrise in the latitude of 
Jerusalem"), went to sleep. Woolriche had promised to 
be down with us the next evening (Tuesday). 

15th. Lowering morning,' — bad cottage weather; walked 
out with Scully to show him the beautiful valley behind 
us, but the rain came on, and we returned. Hughes 
called; I set them on farming topics. I escaped to my 
library; looked over the letters that had come in my 
absence. Another packet of communications from Mrs. 
Lefanu about Sheridan ; a letter from Mr. Linley on 
the same subject, promising me poems of his sister's and 
one of S.'s. ; a letter from the tiresome naval doctor, 
begging to know whether he might send me his poem 



S£FT. 1618.] THOMAS HOOBE, 165 

called *^ Britain's Bulwark," and hoping that " for the honour 
of the Navy" his play might be brought out; another from 
a Mr. Bernard O'Reilly, the author of a book about Green- 
land^ telling me he was in his thirty-fifth year, with many 
other such interesting particulars about himself. Hughes 
stayed to diimer; very anxious to sell a ram to Scully, 
who had already purchased three for three hundred guineas 
in Leicestershire. Scully gave him a severe hit unin- 
tentionally, about theoretical farmers, one of which class 
poor H. is, to the sore detriment of part of his live stock, 
viz. wife, children, &c. &c We planned a party to Bath 
next day, to see Scully so far on his way. S. told of the 
Shanavests in Tipperary giving up the arms they had taken 
from the tithe-proctors to Aim, on his pledging his word 
they should not be endangered. This he did openly in the 
chapel ; and, in consequence, as he was walking near the 
ruins of the abbey ( Athassil), a fellow came to him muffled 
up, and asked where the arms should be deposited ; Scully 
told him, near the river at night-fall, and there accordingly 
they were brought. Scully threw them into the river, 
lest they ever might be brought in judgment against the 
poor wretches ; for which method of disposing of them 
(upon communication with the commander-in-chief) he 
was reprimanded ; that dignitary, I suppose, thinking that 
no one should keep faith with rebels. Scully, however, 
differed with him, and he was right. Woolriche did not 
arrive. 
' 16th. Sent for a coach to take our party (Mrs. Hughes 
and sister, Mary Dalby, myself, and Scully) to Bath, but 
a chaise came instead, which blunder, together with 
Woolriche's arrival after a night's travelling in the mail, 
put an end to the scheme, and Scully went by himself. 
— \ Took Woolriche my favourite walk through the Uttle wood 

M 3 



166 DIABT OV IMtat. 39. 

and the vaUey: must soon bid adieu to this walk till 
Bommer comes again. Sununer wiU come again, but where 
may I be? where may those be who are dear to me? 
These are thoughts that haunt me through my happiest 
moments. Talked of Woolriche's connection with the 
-^ / Duke of Bedford — he travelled with him as his physician 
to Paris, and thence to Italy; in all away about seven 
months, for which the Duke sent him a draft, 500L, with 
a very kind note : he likes the Duke. W. tired after his 
joTunaey ; early to bed. 

17 th. After writing some letters, set out with "Woolriche 
to call at Bowood ; he had attended young Wycombe at 
Home, and spoke highly of Lady L.'s affectionate attention 
to the little Earl in his illness. Met Mrs. Phipps on the 
road, who asked me if I would go to the Melksham concert 
on Tuesday night ; not sure of a dance after the concert^ 
but in hopes of it. If there's a dance. 111 go : a better 
thing than the Mayor-Elect's dinner on that day, to which 
I am invited. 

19th. Wrote some letters and walked out with W. and 
Mary D ; dined at Bowood : the company, two Miss Edg- 
worths and Dumont. Mr. Grenville, to my regret, was gone. 
I wanted to uncork (to use an old joke) whatever remains of 
Old Sherry he might have in him. Lady Lansdowne said 
he had mentioned the subject to her — that he has letters of 
Sheridan's, but that he will not give them. I shall try 
what effect the knowledge of my having so many letters 
of his aton may produce on him. He is said to be very 
fidgetty about his epistolary fame ; and, if so, the intelli- 
gence may at least give him a sleepless night or two, 
which he deserves for such sulky uncommunicativeness. 
Talked with Dumont before dinner — told me Miss Edg- 
worth was preparing her father's memours for the press ; 



i 



f 



Sept. 1818.] THOMAS HOORE. 167 

eaid that the details of a life passed usefully in that 
mniddling class of society must always be interesting. He 
liad not seen either Holcroft's or Gifford!8 *^ Memoirs;^ 
recommended them to him (particularly the latter)^ as 
among the most interesting specimens of autobiography 
we have. Some amusing things mentioned at dinner — 
Madame de Stael yery angry with William Smith for his 
act in favour of the Unitarians : thought it was an act 
for the abolition of the Trinity : *^ C'est vous done (swd 
8he^ on being introduced to Smith) qui ne voulez point de 
myst^es P' Talked of Penn's book about the end of the 
world, and Swift's ridicule of Bickerstaffs prophecy, which 
I must see. Swift says the only persons glad at the end of 
the world, were a man going to be hanged and another 
going to be cut for the stone. Talked o f Perry . Lord 
li. said, that when the Philharmonic Society was es- 
tablished, two or three years ago. Perry gave up writing 
the leading political article of his paper, in order to write 
the accounts of the performances at the Philharmonic — a 
good story, but not true. Ayreton wrote those musical 
criticisms. I mentioned a good scene I was witness to 
jtt Perry's table, when the Duke of Sussex dined with 
him, when, to his horror, he found he had unconsciously 
asked a brother editor to meet his B. H. This was 
I D^erty^-the well-known, unfortunate, ways-and-means 
^ Irishman, whom Perry had asked, without knowing much 
about him, and without intending he should meet the 
Duke of Sussex, who had only fixed to dine with Perry 
the day before. The conyersati(m turning upon news- 
papers, the Duke said, in his high, squeak tone of voice, 
*^ There is a Mr. Dockerty, I find, going to publish a 
paper." I looked towards Doherty, and saw his face red- 
den. ^ Yes, sir," said he, ^^ I am the person ; I had the 

M 4 



~i 



168 DIARY OF [i£TAT.39* 

honour of sending your Royal Highness my prospectus." I 
then looked towards Perry^ and saw his face blacken ; the 
intelligence was as new to hun as to me* I knew what 
was passing in his mind^ but so did not my honest friend 
Tegarty the apothecary, who, thinking that the cloud on 
Perry's brow arose from the fear of a rival journalist, ex- 
claimed with good-natured promptitude, to put him out of 
pain, " Oh, Mr. Doherty's is a weekly newspaper!" It 
was altogether excellent Perry is as good-natured and 
honourable a man as I know anywhere, and does honour to 
the cause he has so con^stently and ably advocated. We 
talked of Bowles's copy of the *^ Institutes" of Calvin, to 
which he has had a drawing prefixed, of Servetus roaring 
in the flames, and Calvin reading to him : underneath are the 
words which Calvin used in describing Servetus's suffer- 
ings, ^* Ter reboabaty Hispanico more^Misericordia.^ Dumont 
talked of Castalion as one of the first teachers of toleration^ 
and who had held against Calvin and Beza, that heretics 
were non gladio puniendi. He then cited Bayle and Locke 
as able champions of toleration. I said that Bayle's ideas 
of religious freedom were, as well as Locke's, fettered by 
his prejudices against the Catholics. This he, Dumont^ 
granted as to Locke, but denied as to Bayle. I find, how- 
ever, I am right : in the preface to the ** Commentaire 
Philosophique," Bayle not only prsdses the penal laws of 
England, but proposes a league of nil Christian princes 
{non Papistes), and even of infidel princes, against Popery, 
and says, *^ Ce ne seroit pas une ligue moins honorable que 
celle qu^onferoit contre les Corsaires de BarbarieJ* This is 
toleration with a vengeance ! M. Dumont, who is a man 
of learning, contradicted me on this point so authorita* 
tively, that I almost took for granted that I was mistaken. 
D. said that Voltaire was the only true and unqualified 



Ssrr. 1818.] THOMAS MOOBE. 169 

champion of toleration. Wonderful that a mild man 
like Melancthon should have approved of Calvin's burning 
Servetus, Lord L. said he could not have approved it 
in his heart, but must have merely given way to the spirit 
of party. Talked of Bayle's ^' NouveUes de la Repvblique 
des Lettves^ I said that it was not so much livelier than 
other critical journals (Le Clerc's^ for instance), as one 
would expect from Bayle's variety and vivacity in his 
other works. Dumont owned it was not so amusing as the 
*^ Thoughts on Comets ; " but still it gave most valuable 
analyses of books. Asked his opinion of the ^^ActaErudi-- 
torum^ but he did not seem to know much about them. 
Lord L., of whom I had inquired the last time I saw him, 
whether he had a copy of Montreuirs poetry (** Madri- 
gaux") now mentioned these to Dumont, who knew nothing 
of them. I want them for an extract for Sheridan's life. 
In the evening. Miss Edgeworth delightful ; not from dis- 
play, but from repose and unaffectedness ; the least pre- 
tending person of the company. She asked me if I had 
seen a poem in the ^^ Edinburgh Annual Begister,*' called 
Solyman (I think): the hero's fate depends upon getting 
a happy man to ^ve him the shirt from his back ; his ex- 
periments in different coimtries she represented as very 
livelily described. At last, in Ireland, he meets with a 
happy man ; and, in his impatience, proceeds to tear the 
shirt &om his back, but finds he has none. Lord L. 
mentioned Made, de Coigny's witticism about the Society 
of Returned Emigrants, who called themselves, " Le Chd^ 
teau;^ lesEspritsrfyreviennentpas, Barnave's exclamation 
in the Convention, ^' Le sang qiCon a verse^ etoit'-il done si 
purf^' Dumont said he was by when Bamave made this 
*' unpardonable " speech, and that he lifted up his arms most 



170 BIABT OF lMrAr,S9. 

solemnly in saying it, while long pleuremes (for he was in 
mourning) hung from his sleeves. Somebody said it was the 
same Bamave who exclaimed *' PerUient les ColonieByplutot 
que les Principe* : " something like Wyndham's exclamation 
of '* Perish Commerce, live the Constitution ! " Miss Edge- 
worth praised the eulogy upon Madame de Stael in the 
notes on the 4th canto of Childe Harold, as a beautiful 
specimen of Lord Byron's prose-writing. I told her it 
was Hobhouse's. Lord L. read it aloud^ and they all 
seemed to like iU There is a metaphor about a vigia in it. 
I mentioned what Curran once said to me, *' My dear 
Tom, when I can't talk sense I talk metaphor." Buona- 
parte sent word to Madame de Coigny not to be so free 
with her jokes about him ; it is probable, therefore, that it 
was to her he made that gallant speech at his leyee, '^ Eh 
bieUy Madame^ comment va la voix f " 

20th. Went (Bessy, Mary D., Woolriche, and I) to 
breakfast with Bowles, and attend his church. Showed 
us a tract he had written to ridicule the Calvinists, called 
'* The Triumphant Tailor," with a caricature drawing he 
had got done for it of the tailor in his ecstasies of election. 
His sermon not so good as the last I heard him preach ; 
all the faults of extempore eloquence, without any of the 
beauties he before gave it. Betumed through Bowood to 
dinner. In the evening played and sung out of Latrobe 
and my own " Sacred Songs." Talked of sacred poetry ; 
my having been applied to for a version of the Psalms. 
Woolriche thought it a fit task for me, and not so difficult 
as I represented it. I read to them the passage in Bishop 
Horsley's Preface to the Psalms, where he calls " Stem* 
hold and Hopkins's" an excellent translation, and de- 
nounces any one who dares to attempt a better. The 



i 



SsFT. 1818.] THOMAS MOOKE. 171 

beautiftil parts of the Psalms are much better in their 
present form than they would be in an j metrical version. 
" Oh that I had the wings of a dove^^ &c might be made 
metre by the alteration of only one word, 

" Oh that I had the pinions of a dove, 
That I might flee awaj and be at rest.** 

But even this alteration spoils it* In the beautiful psahn^ 
*^ By the waters of Babylon,** what is one to do with the 
phrase '^ may my right hand fbrget its cunning" ? Bead a 
little of S.'8 speeches. 

21 St. Wrote a letter or two, and copied out Haydn's 
beautiful " Agnus Dei ** from Xiatrobe's collection. Sadly 
idle ; have done nothing at Sheridan this fortnight past ; 
mu$t be industrious. Asked Woolriche about the Temple 
of the Graces which the Duke of Bedford is building 
at Wobum: the group of the Graces not yet arrived 
from Italy. Some time ago Bogers told me the Duke 
was very anxious for an inscription for this Temple, and I 
was going to send him these lines of Pindar, addressed to 
the Graces, in the fourteenth Olympic : 

^iw yap hjiiv ra rtpwva km ra y\vK(a 
TuftTtu irayra fiporms 

Bogers has since made a paraphrase of these very lines 
himself in blank verse ; and they are, I believe, to be in- 
scribed on the Temple. Here is another passage of Pin- 
dar, which, perhaps, would do better, particularly if the 
Temple be placed in a garden ; — 

£|aipcT0r XoptTwr rtfunjut^ 
Ktany' icuyai yof tnnunuf 
Ta r^ffWi^, 

Went to dine at 's; a set of noisy men, with nothing 

in them but Toryism and trumpery: pleasant enough 



172 MABT OF lM,TJLT.39. 

in the eyenlngy for then we had the women and music 
— - two things that^ if at all prettj^ are sure to be agree* 
able. 

22nd. Walked with Woolriche to look at Lord 
Audley's house. The old lord died a few weeks since* 
Having disposed of his whole estate to an attorney at 
Melksham^ he had asked leave to come and stay a few days 
there; and^ having passed those few days, got into his 
carriage to depart, but returned into the house again, took 
to his bed, and died in a short time after. He had beeik 
very ill, and refused all sustenance, so that he starved 
himself to death. The house looked as bleak and melan- 
choly as the wretched man's fate. In the evening to a 
concert at Melksham ; better than the last, at least as to 
company. Was told by Colonel Humphrey, that the book- 
club of Chippenham (to which I had expressed a wish to 
belong) were resolved to deviate from their common rule 
in my instance, and elect me, not by ballot, but by accla- 
mation. " Hark ! the Vesper Hymn " and " The Minstrel 
Boy " were added to the bill of fare this night, on account 
of my presence. The whole party supped, after the con- 
cert. With Woolriche at the inn, where he was to sleep, in 
order to take the coach to town in the morning. We were 
eight altogether, the Macdonalds, Phippses, and my party 
— a gay thing of Woolriche : he had even tried to get a 
fiddle, in order that we might not be disappointed of the 
dance we expected after the concert. 

23rd. Received a kind letter from Rogers, from Lord 
Holland's, in Bedfordshire, upon learning I was in town 
inquiring after my Bermuda business (which some one 
had told him wore a darker aspect), and offering to come 
up to me if he could be of the least comfort to me. He 
means to come to Bowood : I suppose with the Hollands, 



I 



Sept. 1818.J THOMAS MOOKE. 173 

wto are expected. Caroline Strutt has written a letter 
from Venice, in which she says. Lord Byron lives quite 
retired, never going out but to the American ambas^ 
sador's library*; looked over my Sheridan papers, and set 
to work again. 

24tlu Compared Mrs. Lefanu's account of S.'8 duel 
with his own statement and T. Grenville's letters. A 
Parody in the ** Morning Chronicle " on Horace's ode, '^ Sic 
te Diva potens," which I wrote on my way to Leamington, 
and sent to Perry ; peu de chose. Read after tea Miss 
Lee's clever comedy, '*The Chapter of Accidents," to 
Bessy and Mary D. The latter seemed to think it made 
a mistress more interesting than she ought to be ; but 
anything that encourages toleration and tenderness does 
good. The world is but too inclined to the opposite 
extreme, particularly with respect to the frailty of women, 
whose first fault might often be repaired by gentleness ; 
instead of which they are violently sent adrift down the 
ctirrent, and the ruin which their own weakness begun, the 
cruelty of the world consummates : as my namesake the 

fabulist says, — 

** — the ports against her close, 
And shut the wanderer from repose." 

Tried over some of dementi's sonatas before I went to 
bed : found them dull : he wants genius. 

25th. In the garden all day; delicious weather. At 
my Sheridan task from ten till three : so hard to narrate 
familiar events eloquently — I often wish Sheridan, Miss 
Linley, and Major Mathews at the deviL This would 
have been a day for poetry — not tame, dull, business-like 
prose; and yet thus have I lost all this most poetical 
summer. Wrote a few lines of the epitaph for poor Joe 
Atkinson before breakfast. In the evening walked with 

* There is probably some mistake here. 



174 DIABT OF LiETAT.39. 

Beaey to drink tea at the Hughes's, where they were pre- ^ 
paring a harvest sapper for their men: found, on my return 
home, a note from Mr. Money, inyiting me to £nner next 
day to meet William Linley. 

26th. Finished my epitaph upon poor Joe. Wrote some 
of Sheridan. Went to dinner at Money's : none but he, 
Linley, and myself. Strange that Linley did not kno^r 
Mathews was married at the time he was paying court to 
his sister. Money has often met Mathews, who is still 
alive at Bath. Linley promises me several poems of his 
sister's : says that Morris the singer was one of her many 
lovers, and took to drinking at last, in despair of winning 
her. Mentioned the farce of *' St. Patrick's Day," and that 
he wrote it for a poor man who was in distress; not 
printed. At the Chamberlain's office all the copies of 
plays sent to the licenser since the time this office was first 
instituted are preserved. What a hell of the damned it 
must be I Sheridan persuaded the Linleys to part with 
their shares in Drury Lane for annuities which were never 
paid : he thus got the disposal of everything, the sale of 
private boxes, &c. all into his own hands. Told some 
other stories of S.'s trickery in money matters, but seemed 
willing to acquit him of any low, premeditated design in 
these various shifts and contrivances. Told a story of a 
picture of his sister by Gainsborough, which he (Linley) 
sent to the exhibition of that artist's pictures, at the re- 
quest of the directors ; but which was seized, with a great 
many pictures of Sheridan that were also there, by Burgess, 
S.'s attorney, under pretence of a lien upon his property; 
but S. afterwards, in consideration of a loan of 100/. from 
Linley, had the picture restored to him. Another story 
about his trying to get 400/. out of old Mrs. Linley, to pay 
the deposit required by the proprietor of the Lyceum^ 



Oct. 1818.] THOMAS MOOB£. 175 

when the company removed to that house after the burn- 
ing of Dnuy Lane. Told me that one day at S.'s house^ 
before poor Tom went abroad^ the servant in passing 
threw down the plate-warmer with a crash, which startled 
Tom's nerves a good deaL Sheridan, after scolding most 
foriously the servant, who stood pale and frightened, at 
lost exclaimed, *^ and how many plates have you broke ? " 
** Oh ! not one ar," answered the fellow, delighted to 
vindicate himself; '^ and you, damned fool (said S.), have 
you made all that noise for nothing?" Captain Morris 
(Liinley said) has an annuity of 200/. from the Prince still 
continued to him. The Duke of Norfolk left him no legacy, 
though he devoted his whole life to him ; nor ever gave 
him anything but the life-interest in a small cottage, at 
which he always passes the summer months. He has 
written a song lately, called "The Old Bard," which 
liinley quoted some lines from. Described G eorge Col- 
man at the Beef Steak Club lately, quite drunk, making 
extraordinary noises while Morris was singing, which dis- 
concerted the latter (who, strange to say, is a very grave, 
steady person) considerably. Some years before S.'s death, 
he requested Peter Moore to appropriate as much of his 
Cornwall income as could be spared above a bare subsist- 
ence for him to the liquidation of his debts; and he 
allowed it to go on so for some time, till at last his neces- 
sities forced him to violate his intention. Linley says. 
Captain Morris asserts that " Uncouth is this moss-covered 
grotto," &c &C., is from beginning to end a plagiary. I 
must inquire about this. 

27th. A wet day: dined early. Sheridan in the 
morning. After dinner and after tea copied out a Bene- 
dictus of Mozart and the ** Et incamatus est" of Haydn— 
both the merum sal of music; and before supper 



176 DIABT OF [JCtat.39. 

played and sung them and many others to and with Bessy 
and Mary D, Poor Bessy cried at my Sacred Song, ^* Oh 
how sweet to think hereafter," and at the conversation we 
had after it about the consoling prospect of meeting the 
spirits of those we love in another world : she was think- 
ing of her dear Barbara. When they went to bed, tried 
over some more sonatas of Clementi : was delighted with 
the set dedicated to Miss Gavin, chiefly because they used 
to be played very often by my sister, and brought bacic 
other days to me. Bead a little of Sheridan's speeches 
and went to bed. 

28th. Found out a good motto in Ovid for the verses 
I wrote to Lord Lansdowne some weeks since, inviting 
him to dinner,— 

" Subtle minores 
Scepe casas Super!.** — Metam, lib. v. 282. 

Worked at Sheridan, and in the evening read the little 
interesting comedy of the *^ Birth-day" to Bessy and 
Mary D. 

29th. One day so like another, that there is little by 
which to distinguish their features ; and these are the hap- 
piest; true cottage days, tranquil and industrious; with 
no other alloy than the weak state of my sweet Bessy's 
health, which I trust in Heaven, after she has had her little 
one, will improve. Pursued iny task all day in the garden, 
the evening most delicious; seemed to be the last soft 
farewell of summer. The Hugheses came to tea and 
supper; played and sung, and read to them Morton's 
comedy of the ** School of Reform." I should like much 
to act Tyke. 

30th. Ditto for the most part. Another bright parting 
glance of summer in the evening ; it surely must be the 
last. Copied out after tea part of a glorious thing of 



Oct. 1818.] THOMAS MOOKE. 177 

Haydn's, beginning with the chant, '^Amen, dico tibi, 
hodie mecum eris in paradiso." The passage, " Oggi con 
me," &c. divine I 

October 1st. Crowe called, and found me in the garden 
at TV^ork. I thought he was come to pay his long-promised 
visit, but he was on his way to dine at Devizes. Told me 
lie remembered the first Mrs. Sheridan when Miss Linley t 
tHere was a degree of sternness, he said, mixed with the 
beauty of her features ; like her father, who was ill-tem- 
pered looking. Tom resembled her very much. This I 
have heard from every one. Walked with Crowe on his 
-way through the fields. Talked to him of his work on the 
** Structure of English Verse," which he has been so long 
about. He told me his chief principle was, that there 
should be quantity as well as accent in an English verse* 
** Thus,*' he said, ** The merry bells of happy Trinity " is 
right as to number of syllables and accent, but observe 
how you improve the quantity by substituting *^ holy " for 
** happy." Milton, he said, always broke his Une in the 
place where the sentence most cohered or hung together } 
separating the noun from the adjective, disjointing the 
genitive case, &c. &c. ^^ I could tell," he said, " by the 
frequency of the recurrence of a particular word at the 
beginning of the lines, whether blank verses run smoothly 
into each other or not : what is that word ? " I said, *^ of,** 
and 'twas the word he meant. He made a distinction 
between our anapaestic verses and our dactylic. ^^God 
save great George our King" is a specimen of the dactylic ; 
so is " Merrily, merrily shall we live now." He said he 
had quoted an extraordinary measure of mine in his work, 
a line consisting of nine syllables, — ^^Oh, the days are 
gone when beauty bright," in the " Irish Melodies." Said 
he believed he had found something like it in one of 

VOL. II, N 



178 niART OF [iETlT.S9. 

Shakepeare -8 ^ Sonnets. " Mentioned to him a still more ex- 
tiaordinaiy metre in the ^^ Melodies," of which there are two 
specimens : *^ At the mid-hour of night, when stars are 
weeping, I fly," and ^' Through grief and through danger 
thy smile hath cheer'd my way." Beceived from town the 
volumes of the '^ Portfolio," which I had left to be bound ; 
an American publication, in one part of which I find myself 
abused for my " dwarfish stature, weak eyes, and awkward 
dancing." The last charge I Jlatter myself not true. I 
appeal to all my partners. But I foi^ve the Yankees for 
abusing my dandng: I brought worse charges against 
them, and perhaps with quite as little truth. In the 
evening finished my copy of Haydn's *' Oggi con me." ' 

2nd. Set ofi^, between two and three, to walk to Bowles's 
to dinner. Bessy and the little ones saw me part of the 
way. Met on the Cahie road a riding party, consisting of 
Lord Lansdowne, the Ordes (Mrs. Orde, a very engaging • 
little woman, sister to Lady Oxford), and Mr. Wellesley. 
Lord L. said the Hollands were coming on Sunday : asked 
me to fix a day to dine ; fixed Wednesday. The party at 
Bowles's, at dinner, were the Grossets, Mrs. Merryweather 
and hei son, Henry Joy, Linley, and Miss Miles — a pretty 
little ^< tricksy spirit " of a girl, whom I had singled out at 
the Melksham concert: Mr. Yates, a dei^yman, who sings 
very well, also of the party. In the evening, music Linley 
sung words of mine, set by himself, *^ Oh, if your tears are 
given to care." I accompanied some things out of La- 
trobe, Haydn's *^ Agnus Dei,"&c. Linley did not ex- 
pect to find me so good a musician. Mrs. Merryweather, 
a fine woman, sang ^^ Angels ever bright and fair" and 
**In sweetest harmony," in very good stylo. Slept at 
Bowles's. 



( 



OeT.1818.J THOMAS MOOBE. 179 

Sid. Dreadfully rainy day. After much doubting snd 
watdung of ihe weather determined on staying, and wrote 
home to Bessy. Linley produced Greene's '' Anthems.'* 
I think I surprised him a little by singing them at sight 
with him, and tolerably well too. Fine solemn music; 
and if I had been educated to their style I should have 
enjoyed it, I dare say, as much as I see others do ; but, as 
it is, the foreign school of Haydn, Mozart, &c. gives me 
much more pleasure. *^ The Humble Man," which we 
sang together, a very touching piece of church composition 
certainly. I would make him try over the ^' Oggi con me" 
and " Incamatus est" of Haydn, &c, and he owned they 
were beautifuL We sang over the " Lord, thou knowest," 
of Furcell, which Croft introduced in his '^ Burial Ser- 
vice ; " a fine thing. He told George I., who bid him com- 
pose the ^^ Service,'^ that he could not think of changing 
what Purcell had done so gloriously. We talked away all 
the morning as incessant as the rain. Joy a good fellow, 
but a coxcomb rather, and as eternal a quoter as Dr. 
Pangloas. Some good stories. Sheridan, the first time 
he met Tom, after the marriage of the latter, seriously 
angry with him ; told him he had made his will, and had 
cut him off with a shilling. Tom said he was, indeed, very 
sorry, and immediately added, ^^ You don't happen to have 
the shilling about you now, sir, do you ?" Old S. burst out 
laughing, and they became firiends again. The day that Dog 
Dent was to bring forward the motion (that gave him that 
name) about a tax upon dogs, S. came early to the house, 
and saw no one but Dent sitting in a contemplative pos- 
ture in one comer. S. stole round to him unobserved, and 
putting his hand under the seat to Dent's legs, mimicked 
the barking of a dog, at which Dent started up alarmed, as 

n2 



180 DIABT OF [^TAT. 3^* 

if his conscience really dreaded some attack from the race 
he was plotting against. Sheridan angry with his servant 
for lighting a fire in a little room off his hall, because it 
tempted the duns to stay, by making them so comfortable. 
Mrs. Sheridan wrote an entertainment called the ^^ Haunted 
Village," which she gave S. to add some touches to, but 
never could get &om him again. Linley seemed to think 
he suppressed it from jealousy. Leaves, a clergyman, wad 
the author of the words of " Bobin Gray:" I already knew 
Lady Anne Lindsay composed the music Morel wrote 
some of the sweetest words in HandePs oratorio — " Tears 
such as tender fathers shed," &c. &c. ; very sweet English 
this ** iovjoy to think." Talked q f Crowe : his father wa» 
a carpenter, at Winchester, and haditeson admitted upotk 
the foundation. He married a frjiit-woman's daughter at; 
Oxford ; had children by her, y^ still continued to hold his 
fellowship ; has now a living of more than a thousand a 
year. We read to-night {)assages out of his " Lewesdon 
Hill;" some of them of the highest order. Parr, when 
asked by Lady Mada&na Palmer, how he liked Crowe, said, 
** Madam, I love him ; he is the very brandy of genius, 
mixed with the stinking water of absurdity." General 
Meadows, when a young man, said to a brother officer, 
when they were both riding together into the thick of the 
enemy's fire, ^* If our tailors were to see us now, how the 
fellows would funk ! " More music in the evening. Linley 
sung some words which Bowles had written, an *^ Address 
from Prospero to Ariel," which Linley had reversed, mak- 
ing it from *^ Ariel to Prospero," and said it did as well : 
what accommodating verses ! Bowles showed me a part 
of his library, in which was collected, he told me, all the 
books illustrative of the divines of the times of Charles I,, 



A 



Oct. 1818.] THOMAS MOOBE. 181 

and the theology of that period. The first book I put 
my hand on in this sacred comer was a volume of Tom 
Brown's works, &c. Bowles was amused in the midst of 
all his gravity by this detection. What with his genius, 
his blunders, his absences, &c., he is the most delightful of 
all existing parsons or poets* In talking of Miss Grayton, 
the pretty little dancer, marrying Murray, a clergyman, 
Joy applied two lines well, saying they might now, in 
their different capacities, - 

" Teach men for heaven or money's sake, 
What steps they were through life to take." 

4th. Bowles, speaking of the toleration of the English 
Church, gave two or three instances; among others, 
Sonner, after all his burnings, being left unmolested. 
He took down Hooker, and turned to the protest of 
Travers against some tolerating expressions of Hooker's 
about the Catholics. I remarked to him, however (what 
rather seemed to contradict his assertion of the general 
toleration of the English Church) the passage where 
Travers says, in his memorial, ** Such language has never 
before been used," &c., or words to that effect : meaning, 
such mild language as Hooker's had not been ventured 
on by any other Protestant divine. Left Bowles's be- 
tween twelve and one with Joy, in his gig. Called at 
Bowood: found Douglas (Lord Glenbervie's son), the 
Ordes, and Abercrombie. Douglas told me Lady Donegal 
"was not very well. I grieve in my heart and soul to hear 
it : never was heart or head that better deserved all the 
blessings of this world. Lady L. had read Edgeworth's 
** Memoirs" in MS. ; was much interested by them, parti- 
cularly by his account of Mr. Day, the person of whom 
there is so much in Miss Seward's " Memoirs of Darwin." 
Lord L. told me, what I did not^Kow before, that Sir 

n3 



-) 



182 MABT OF L^Etat. 3t* 

James Mackintosh had accepted a professorship at Hertford 
Collie; about 300/* a^year and a house, which are ob- 
jects to poor Sir James. It is a sad pity that such a man 
should be straitened* A poem by Mr. Lucas, the Devizes 
poet, on the table, where he calls Stonehenge a '^ mighty 
carcase.'' Talked of his famous poem of '^ Joseph i" said I 
had never read it, but heard he made Joseph a dandy, and 
had described his shaving, his toilet, &c. Douglas said he 
supposed it was from the patriarch the garment called a 
Joseph was named Douglas must have been thinking of 
a Benjamin, for a Joseph is, I believe, a woman^s garment. 
However, the joke did very welL Came home, and found 
my dearest Bessy very tired after her walk from churdu 
She had been receiving the sacrament, and never did a 
purer heart prostrate itself before the altar. In the note 
she wrote me to Bowles's the day before, she said, '^ I am 
sorry I am not to see you before I go to church." In the 
evening tried over a new volume of Latrobe's sacred 
music, which Mrs. Bowles had lent me. Not so much 
beauty, I fear, as in the other. 

5th. Wrote to Mr. Grenville, to ask him for any letters 
or papers he may have of Sheridan's. Sent Mrs. Kearney 
the epitaph on her father. My little Anastasia repeated 
to me a pretty child's poem she had learnt, beginning, 
•* Twinkle, twinkle, little star." I wrote one for her the 
other day, which she repeats : '^ Little May-fly, the sun'a 
in the sky," &c. &c. Played a game of cribbage with 
Bessy after dinner, and lost sixpence to her. Bead some 
of S.'s speeches before I went to bed. 

6th. Heard that the turtle which B. had shipped for 
me from Jamaica, and which I mtended as a present for 
Lord Lansdowne, had died on the passage, — ** Quis desiderio 
nt finish &c« Tried over, in the evening, my new number 



SSPT»1818.] THOMAS MOORE. 183 

of ** Irish Melodies'' (the 7th) just come out, and was to- 
lerably well pleased with them. The " Examiner" quoted 
some lines to ** Sir Hudson Lowe," which I had sent to 
Perry, and added, "We think we can recognise whose 
easyaadsparklmghanditia." I wonder he found me out 
7th. Walked to ask the Phippses to tea and supper for 
to-morrow evening. Quarter before six, Joy called upon 
me, in his father's carriage, to take me to Bowood to 
dinner. Brought Bessy a beautiful Guernsey lily, a 
superfine thing ; originally, he says, of Japan. A ship 
from Japan had been wrecked on the coast of Guernsey, 
and, having quantities of lilies aboard, they were cast 
among the sand, and the following year these splendid 
flowers appeared. The company at Bowood, besides those 
there on Sunday, the Hollands, AUen, Marsh, Henry Fox^ 
Wellesley ; and Charles Fox and Fazakerly arrived in the 
evening. Sat near Lady Holland at dinner ; very gracious ; 
has really shown a sincere anxiety about my Bermuda 
misfortune. They talked much about Brougham's " Letter 
on the Public Charities;" aU seemed to condemn his 
strictures upon Eton and Winchester : an answer to it 
coming out, got up by the Government, in a letter to Sir 
William Scott. Talked of poor Monk Lewis : his death 
was occasioned by taking emetics for seansickness, in spite 
of the advice of those about him. He died lying on the 
deck. When he was told all hope was over, he sent his 
man down below for pen, ink, and paper ; asked him to 
lend him his hat ; and upon that, a3 he lay, wrote a codicil 
to his wilL Few meii, once so talked of, have ever pro- 
duced so little sensation by their deatL He was mining 
his Negroes in Jamaica, they say, by indulgence, for which 
they suffered severely as soon as his back was turned; but 
he has enjoined it to bis heirs, as one of the conditions of 

H 4 



184 DIABT OF [^T^T. 39. 

holding his estate^ that the Negroes were to have thre^e 
additional holidays in the year ; and has left a sort of pro- 
granune of the way those holidays are to he celebrated^ — 
the hour when the overseer is to sound his shell to sum* 
mon them t(^ether^ the toasts^ &c. : the first toast to be 
♦* the Lady Frederica, Duchess of York;'* so like poor 
Lewis. Had a good deal of conversation with Lord Hol- 
land in the evening about Sheridan. Told me that one 
remarkable characteristic of S.^ and which accounted for 
many of his inconsistencies, was the high, ideal system he 
had formed of a sort of impracticable perfection in honour, 
virtue, &c., anything short of which he seemed to think 
not worth . aiming at ; and thus consoled himself for the 
extreme laxity of his practice by the impossibility of satis- 
fying or coming up to the sublime theory he had formed. 
Hence the most romantic professions of honour and inde- 
pendence were coupled with conduct of the meanest and 
most swindling kind; hence, too, prudery and morality 
were always on his lips, while his actions were one series 
of debauchery and libertinism. A proof of this mixture 
was, after the Prince became Regent, he offered to bring 
S. into parliament, and said, at the same time, that he by 
no means meant to fetter him in his political conduct by 
doing so ; but S. refused, because, as he told Lord Hol- 
land, ^^ he had no idea of risking the high independence of 
character which he had always sustained, by putting it in 
the power of any man, by any possibility whatever, to 
dictate to him," Yet, in the very same conversation in 
which he paraded all this fine flourish of high-mindedness, 
he told Lord H. of an intrigue he had set on foot for 
inducing the Prince to lend him 4000/. to purchase a 
borough. From his habit of considering money as nothing, 
he considered his moincf the Prince 4000/. as no slaveiy 



Oct. 1818.] THOMAS MOORE. 185 

whatever : " I shall then (he said) anfy owe him 4000/., 
which will leave me as free as air.** — Sheridan's high opi- 
nion pf his own powers of management, which made him 
often stand aloof from his party and friends. He was 
the means, said Lord H., of bringing Sidmouth in with 
us in 1806, and of bringing EUenborough into the Cabinet. 
He was also the primary cause of the defection of the 
Prince from the Whigs, when he became Regent. On 
that event taking place, the Prince wrote to Lords Grey 
and Grenville to take measures for forming an administra- 
tion. Tlfeir answer was shown by the Prince to Sheridan, 
who pointed out some things in it he thought objection-' 
able. The Prince represented these to the two lords, who 
very imprudently returned a high-toned remonstrance to 
him for having shown their answer to S. The latter was 
nettled, and, with equal imprudence, made such comments 
on the sort of tyranny to which these lords seemed already 
to aspire over the Prince, and let out so many other 
opinions with respect to them, that his Boyal Highness 
became alarmed, and threw himself into the arms of the 
Tories. . *^ These," said Lord Holland, " are secrets of too 
cabinet a nature, and too recent to be made use of by you." 
I said I believed that not only S., but Lord Moira, had 
never forgiven Lords G. and G. for the way in which they 
themselves (and, in their person, the Prince) were, as they 
thought, treated by them after the death of Mr. Fox. I 
remember Lord Moira saying, " They actually pushed us 
from our stools; never consulted us about anything." 
llentioned this. ^'I cannot think what he meant by 
that," said Lord Holland, ^^ Moira is certainly the oddest 
mixture of romance and the reverse that ever existed. As 
to not consulting him, he always sat silent, and did not 
seem to attend to anything. As to our making no report 



186 DIABT OF IJEtat.39. 

to the Prince of what we were doing, we looked upon 
Moira as hk organ there, and thought it woidd be officious 
of any one eke to be the medium of communication.'' 
The fact is. Lord M^'s nlence was eyidentlj firom pque 
at thinking himself n^lected, and the only communication, 
of course, he made to the Prince was, to teU him that they 
never troubled their heads about him. All this accounts 
most satisfactorily for the defection of the Segent ; and if 
anything could justify his duplicity and apostasy, it would 
be their arrogance and folly. Sheridan was jealous of 
Mr. Fox, and showed it in ways that product, at last, 
great coolness between them. He envied him particularly 
his being member for Westminster, and, in 1802, had 
nearly persuaded him to retire from parliament, in order 
that he might himself succeed to that honour. But it was 
^\ Burke chiefly that S. hated and envied. Being both 
Irishmen, both adventurers, they had every possible in- 
centive to envy. On Hastings' trial particularly it went 
to Sheridan's heart to see Burke in the place set apart for 
privy councillors, and himself excluded. This was all 
very amusing, and I was rather sorry I had arranged to 
return home at night Everybody pressed me to stay, 
and I was very near having reason to repent my going; 
for, when we were about a mile from the house, Joy's 
coachman drove off the road down a bank, and overset the 
carriage. The crash was tremendous, for three of the 
glasses were up ; but none of us were hurt, except Joy's 
man a little bruised in the hip, and my arm slightiy 
strained. Lord Lansdowne's keeper happened luckily to 
be passing, and helped us to raise the carriage. I walked 
home, and did not arrive till past one o'dodc 

In speaking of Sheridan's eloquence. Lord H. said that 
the over-stndned notions he had of perfection were very 
favourable to his style of oratory in giving it a certain 



-( 



OcT.1818-] THOMAS MOORE. 187 

elevation of tone and dignity of thought. Mr. Fox thought 
his Westminster Hall speech, trumpery, and used to say 
it spoiled the style of Burke, who was delighted with it. 
Certidnly in the report I have read of it, it seems most 
trashy bombast.* 

«> 8th. Had a letter from the Donegals. Their letters 
(particidarly Mary's) fuU of talent ; but this one very me- 
lancholy. In the evening the Fhippses, Macdonald, his 
wife's sister and mother, to tea and supper; played and 
song for them; dull audience; no sounding boards; the 
men, too, would rather talk than listen. Lady Lans- 
downe and a party from Bowood called in the morning to 
inquire if I was hurt. 

dth. Received a long letter frtnn Lord Byron, in which 
he sends me two stanzas of the Beppo-ish poem he is 
about, called ** Don Juan." Had, also, rather a comfortable 
letter about my Bermuda business, which in the first place 
assures me of having a respectable man, Mr. Wood (to 
whom I applied), to watch over my interests there ; in the 
second place gives the intelligence that my deputy has not 
absconded from the island, which I rather feared ; and, in 
the third place, informs me that he has property, which I 
much doubted. In the evening read Colman's little 



' * There was, undoubtedly, some bombast in Mr. Sheridan's 
speeches, but they were marked by glowing eloquence, and not un- 
frequently by brilliant wit. Although some of his jokes were the 
result of great study, yet, as they were perfect in their kind, and that 
kind of the very highest, we may forgive the labour. Few men have 
possessed the power to make such a speech as that which dazzled the 
House of Commons on tlie Begum charge ; few men ever wrote so 
good a comedy as the ^ School for ScandaL" It is melancholy to re- 
flect that the possessor of such talents should, as it were, in mere 
wantonness, hsve thrown away the influence which he was so well 
qualified to ezeroiae over the destiny of liis country. — £d. 



188 DIARY OP t^TAT. 39, 

comedy of ** Ways and Means" to Bessy and Mary D. 
Some comical things in it : " Curse Cupid, he has not a 
halfpenny to buy him breeches : ^ ** Always threatening 
to break my neck ; one would think we servants had a 
neck to prt"*f , ^^^^ ^^^ iSwp^ ^ " Lad La ne." Read some 
of S.'s speeches. 

10th. Frittered away the morning with letters and 
trifles. Was looking to the sky the whole day for an apo* 
logy in the shape of a shower of rain ; it came at last. Eat 
a mutton chop by myself. Worked at Sheridan in the 
evening. Before I went to bed read some of Francis's 
" Indian Minutes," which are very ably done ; quite able 
enough to back him as the author of ^* Junius." 

1 1th. Wrote to Crutwell, the printer at Bath, to ask if 
there is any file of the ^^Bath Chronicle" as far .back as the 
year 1772. I should like to see the accounts of the day 
about Sheridan's dueL Wrote also to Mr. Muloch^ a 
pedantic young Irishman, and a mighty genius in his own 
estimation, who, having tried literature and place-hunting 
without success, became a merchant in Liverpool, and by 
natural process a bankrupt. He wrote to me to interfere 
between him and Power, about a consignment of French 
horns and trumpets, which he had sent out for the latter 
to one of his West Indian correspondents, and for the 
amount of which P. had arrested him. I declined having 
anything to do in the concern, as I had already tried my 
peace-making talent ineffectually between Power and Sir 
John Stevenson, and lamented that people should be so 
ready, " ^re ciere viros Martemque accendere cantu,* 
i. €. to squabble about French horns and go to law for a 
sonff. Worked at Sheridan — heartily sick of his duels and 
courtship — shall be glad when I get him fairly married, 
for then I shall come to his plays and his politics. In the 
evening read some tracts about the Prince's debts in '86 



-/ 



([UNIv?;rsiT7 

Oct. 1818.3 THOMAS MOOBE. 

and an ingenious pamphlet on the Regency, callei 
present National Embarrassment considered." Sung some 
sacred music with Bessy and Mary D., and, before going 
to bed, finished reading ^^ Boyal Kecollections on a Tour 
to Cheltenham," which has some hard hits in it. Looked 
over the charges against Sir E, Impey. That thought in 
the " Royal Recollections," " If I could touch for the evil 
as I can for patriotism," excellent. 

12th. Received from Miss Smith, a daughter of the 
baron's, who is at Cheltenham, a Greek air, which her 
brother sent her from Cephalonia ; one of those wild and 
meagre things, which have no other charms than that of 
being foreign. Looked over Mr. T. Grenville's letters. 
By the bye, when I told Lady Holland that he said that 
he iDOuId not give me the letters of Sheridan he has in his 
possession, she answered, " Well, I hope you mean to 
punish him with a sentence or two ; " and I am strongly 
tempted to do so. Read the " Way to get Married" to 
Bessy and Mary D. after tea. Nothing but the recollec- 
tion of that delightful actor Lewis carries one through this 
*' moles" of absurdity, of which he was in every sense 
tbe "mens agitans.^ After supper looked over Major 
Scott's " Review of the Transactions in Bengal." Have 
not yet made up my mind about Hastings. 

13th. An answer from Crutwell to say he has the file 
of 1772, and I might examine it when I pleased. Shall 
go to Bath with Mary D., who leaves us to-morrow. Re- 
ceived a letter from Mr. T. Grenville, very wordy, and 
labouring hard at an excuse for not giving me the letters : 
says they ** only refer to the lady whom he first married." 
Only ! The very thing I want. Have replied to him, 
and tried by little gentle lunts to sJiame him into letting 
me have them ; but it is, I fear, hopeless. The Hughesea 



190 DIABT OF lJta^T.t% 

to tea; sang for them in the eveiiiiig. Bead Major 
Scott's *^ Letter to Francis " before going to b^ 

14th. Went with Marj D« and Miss Best to Baih. 
Am sorry to lose Maiy^ who is thoroughlj senoble aiid 
amiable, and loyes us all sincerely. Went to Cmtwell's, 
and passed an hour and a half in looking over the ^' Bath 
Chronide." Old newspapers the most interesting kind of 
history after alL Amused with seeing Miss Linley's name 
all at once left out of the concert announcements ; knew 
by that she was off. Grave the two ladies a dinner at the 
White Hart, and returned to Melksham in the chaise I 
went in* The man took up a Quaker-w(Hnaa and her 
maid: much diverted with the Quaker-woman's praises 
of her maid (who sat outside with the postillion — a very- 
nice looking girl) ; her account of the girl's lovers, &c. &c. 
Walked home from Melksham, and delighted poor Bess by 
my return, who did not quite expect me till to-morrow, 
and said it was worth twenty guineas to her to see me. 

15th. In the garden all the morning. Visit from Miss 
Hughes and the Misses Crowe : showed them engravings of 
Lord Byron : they remarked that his not wearing whiskers 
gave him a singular look. From thence the transition to 
my unwhiskered face very obvious ; and, per saltum, from 
me up to Buonaparte, who is also witliout whiskers. In 
the evening read Hastings' q>eech to the Lords in 1791 : 
very plausible certainly, except with respect to the in- 
dorsed bonds for the present, which is rather a lame part 
of his vindication* 

16tibi. My dear Bessy planting some roots Miss Hughes 
had brought her ; Looking for a place to put a root of pink 
hepatica in, where (as she said) ^^ I might best see them in 
my walk." In the evening read the " Observations " of the 
Court of Directors on Warren Hastings' letter to them : it 



Oct. 1816.] THOMAS HOOBE. 191 

condemns his exactions from^ and treatment of, Cheyt 
Sing, as contrary to all faith and justice. 

17th. Worked at Sheridan ; walked with Bessy to call 
upon the Macdonalds. Bowles came while we were out; 
ivished me to dine with him to-morrow (Sunday), In the 
eyening received a note from Lord Xianadowne, asking me 
to £x any day next week for dinner.. Bogers arriyed 
there. 

18th. As the morning was fine, set out to Bowood to 
see Bogers; caught him in the garden, on the way to 
Bowles's ; walked with him ; talked much about Sheridan. 
In a second search through the papers they haye found the 
Acts of " The Foresters ;" some letters too of the Prince's, 
which, of course, I must see, though I cannot make use 
of them. Sheridan once told Bogers of a scene that 
occurred in a French theatre in 1772, where two French 
officers stared a good deal at his wife, and S., not know- 
ing a word of French, could do nothing but put his 
arms a-kimbo and look bluff and defying at them, which 
liiey, not knowing a word of English, could only reply 
to by the yery same attitude and look. He once men- 
tioned to Bogers that he was aware he ought to haye 
made a loye scene between Charles and Maria in the 
*^ School for Scandal;'^ and would haye done it, but that 
the actors who played the parts were not able to do 
such a scene justice. Talked of Hastings and the im- 
peachment. Asked Bogers whether it was not now 
looked upon, eyen by the Opposition themselyes, as a sort 
of dramatic piece of display, got up by the Whigs of that 
day from priyate pique, yanity, &c. &c; Francis, first 
togging them on from his hostility to Hastings; Burke 
running headlong into it from impetuosity of temper ; and 



194 DIAUY OF [^TAT. 39. 

Talked of the alterations at the late Dublin city dinners ; 
about the toast of the " Glorious Memory ;" mentioned 
that about the middle of the last century the usual ad- 
junct to this toast was, " and a fig for the Bishop of Cork;" 
the Bishop, who was a strong Tory, having written a book 
against drinking Memories, pronouncing it to be idolatrous^ 
&c. &c. Burke's bad manner of speaking, and the effect 
it had in quite nullifying the effect of his speeches. F. 
Lewis said he had heard Lord Grenville mention that once, 
after a speech of Burke's, himself and Pitt consulted with 
each other whether it was worth answering, and decided in 
the negative ; since, however, it is one of the speeches that 
Lord Grenville said he has always read with most admira- 
tion and delight I think it was upon the Xabob of Arcot's 
debts.* Music in the evening. Lady Bath talked to me 
of her sister, Mrs. Seymour (a very charming woman, 
whom I saw a good deal of when she was with the Bed- 
fords in Ireland) ; said how often she spoke of me ; hoped 
I would soon visit Longleat, &c. Rogers asked me whe- 
^ ther the " Parody on Horace," lately in the " Chronicle," 
was mine ; said how Luttrell was delighted wufir it at 
Ampthill, and pronounced it to be mine ; reading it out to 
Lords Jersey and Duncannon, who were also much pleased 
with it. Told me also that he heard the verses to Sir 
Hudson Lowe praised at Brookes's. It is pleasant to find 
that these trifles do not die unnoticed. Lord Lansdowne 
asked me afterwards, whether it was I who wrote a descrip- 
tion of a dinner at the French Minister's (I think) about 
two months ago, which was, he said, most admirable. 
Told him not, nor had I ever seen it. He said he knew the 
" Parody on Horace " to be mine. Told him I had asked the 

* Sir James Mackintosh told me the same thing, and read aloud 
the passages about the ravage of the Camatic and the prolific sow as 
justifying both the admiration and the contempt. — Ed. 



Oct. 1818.] TflOMAS MOORE. 195 

Hollands whether what Trotter says of Mr. Fox's refusal 
to see Sheridan in his last illness was true or not^ and 
they answered it was true. Lord L. said he believed it 
to be so ; and that his own opinion of Sheridan^ which was 
very low indeed, had been formed principally from what he 
had heard Mr. Fox say of him. Sung a good deal by my- 
self, and one or two things with Mrs. F. Lewis. She and 
T, and Lady Louisa Thynne, sung " The Bird let loose," 
(from my ** Sacred Songs"), and it went beautifully. Mrs. 
F. Lewis sung out of the same set, " Oh Thou who driest 
the Mourner's Tear." Meant to walk home, but Lady L. 
insisted upon my having the coachman to drive me over in 
her little gig. Cannot sleep out while dear Bessy is so 
near her difficulties, and without a single male or female 
friend near her but myself. The Lansdownes very kind 
to me. I did him injustice in thinking that he had forgot 
my Bermuda calamity, for it was he who, in a letter to 
Ampthill, while I was last in town, mentioned that he 
feared it wore a darker aspect than it did before. Got 
home rather late. 

19th. Had promised Rogers, who was coming to me 
this morning, to meet him half way. Mrs. Phipps, upon 
whom I called as I went, came out with me in order to get 
a glimpse of *^ Memory Rogers." He and I walked to my 
cottage; much delighted with the scenery around; said he 
preferred the valley and village before us to the laid-out 
groimds of Bowood. Showed him some of my Sheridan 
papers. He mentioned ^^ Memoirs of Jackson" of Exeter, 
written by himself, which he saw in MS. some years ago, 
and in which he remembered there was a most glowing 
description of his pupil. Miss Linley, standing singing by 
his side, and so beautiful ihiit *' you might think you were 
looking into the face of an angel." I wish I had these 

o 3 



196 DIABY OP [iETAT. 89. 

** Memoirs." Walked with him to the village, and then as 
for as Phipps's, where I was to dine, in order to go to the 
Devizes ball in the evening. The party, Macdonald and 
Miss May ham, the Phippses themselves, and T. Mentioned 
after dinner my invitation to Beckford's. Phipps bid me 
take care what I did, for Sir Kichard Hoare was called 
to account seriously by his brother magistrates the other 
day for having visited Beckford ; and was obliged to ex- 
plain that it was for purposes of information, and not a 
visit of ceremony. The ball dull enough ; got home be- 
tween two and three, and found Bess just rising from her 
bed to blow the fire for some hot drink for me. 

20th. Ill, from want of sleep the two nights before ; 
looked over Rogers's poem, and marked some lines with 
pencil ; read the newspapers. A game of cribbage after 
dinner with Bessy. Sheridan's speeches in the evening ; 
a dull, unprofitable day. Kogers thinks I must not give 
extracts from Mr. T. Grenville's letters, he being still 
alive ; and Lord L., he says, thinks the same ; so I suppose 
I must give them up, though there would be a very amus- 
ing revenge in quoting his solemn nonentities. A note 
from Crowe, to say he will come, *^ please God," and *^ if 
it is dry weather." 

21st. Determined on giving up T. Grenville's letters, and 
wrote a few sentences to replace the extracts I had made 
from them. Walked to meet Rogers, who said he would 
call upon me. Talked chiefly of Sheridan. Told me several 
anecdotes, some of which I have written down in my note- 
book as fit to use; the rest practical jokes, not easily tell- 
able: — His strewing the hall or passage with plates and 
dishes, and knives and forks stuck between them, and then 
tempting Tickell (with whom he was always at som^ 
frolic or other) to pursue him into the thick of them: 
Tickell fell among them and was almost cut to pieces, and 



Oct. 1818.] THOMAS MOOBE. 197 

next day, in vowing vengeance to Lord John Townshend 
against S. for this trick, he added (with the true spirit of 
an amateur in practical jokes), " but it was amazingly well 
done." Another time, when the women (Mrs. Crewe, 
Mrs. Tickell, &c.) had received the gentlemen after dinner 
in disguises, which puzzled them to make out tphich was 
which, the gentlemen one day sent to the ladies to come 
downstairs to them in the dining-room. The ladies, upon 
entering, saw them all dressed as Turks, holding bumpers 
in their hands, and after looking amongst them and saying, 
" This is Mr. Crewe ; " " No, this is he," &c. &c., they heard 
a laugh at the door, and there they saw all the gentlemen 
in propriis personis ; for 'twas the maids they had dressed 
up in Turkish habits. S. was always at these tricks in 
country houses. He has been known to send a man and 
horse eight miles for a piece of crape, and people were 
always kept in expectation of some forthcoming frolic. 
His dialogue once with General Tarleton : " Well Tarle- 
ton, are you on your high horse still?" "Oh 1 higher 
than ever : if I was on a horse before, I am on an elephant 
now." " No, no, my dear fellow, you were on an ass 
before, and you are on a mule now." Thought this ex- 
quisite ; but I own I cannot see the very great wit of it.* 
Talked of Beckford's two mock novels " Agemia" and thep 
** Elegant Enthusiast," which he wrote to ridicule the novels 
written by his sister, Mrs. Harvey (I think), who read 
these parodies on herself quite innocently, and only now 

* The joke seems here unexplained. Sheridan alirajs maintained 
that the Duke of Wellington would succeed in Portugal; General 
Tarleton the reverse. It was a matter of constant dispute between 
them. Tarleton, who had been wrong, grew obstinate, so, on the news 
of the. retreat of the French, Sheridan, by way of taunt, said, "Well, 
Tarleton," &c. I remember that having been at the Lines of Torres 
Vedras, Sheridan was much pleased with my sanguine account of the 
Dake*8 position.— £d. 

o 



198 DIART OF C^TAT. 39. 

and then suspecting that they were meant to laugh at her, 
saying, •* Why, I vow and protest, here is my grotto," 
&c. &c In the *^ Elegant Enthusiast" the heroine writes a 
song which she nngs at a masquerade, and which produces 
such an effect, that my Lord Mahogany, in the character 
of a Milestone, bursts into tears. It is in " Agemia" that 
all the heroes and heroines are killed at the conclusion 
by a supper of stewed lampreys.* 

22nd- Walked at twelve o'clock towards Bowood to 

meet Rogers. Met Mr. coming to Bessy with a 

beautiful nosegay : had agreed with Bessy that, as 

was away from home, she might ask her to join our party 
at dinner. Met R. at the park-gate, and came on to- 
wards the cottage. Told him my delicacy on the subject 
of the Coalition ; unwilling as I should be to offend Lord 
Holland, yet still feeling it my duty to speak sincerely 
what I thought of Fox's conduct in that instance. He 
said there was much to be advanced in palliation, if not 
in vindication, of that and other coalitions : bid me talk 
) on the subject to Lord Holland and Allen, who had 
staggered him by their arguments. Lord H.'s idea of 
three distinct periods in his uncle's life: the first, when 
he was opposed to Lord North, and when his eloquence 
was bold, careless, vehement, vituperative ; in the second, 
when Pitt was his antagonist, and when he found it 
necessary to be more cool, cautious, and Ic^cal : durinff 
both these periods, ambition of power and distinction was 
his ruling passion ; but in the third and concluding portion 
of his life all this had passed away, and his sole, steady, 
chastened'dovm desire was that of doing good. Men- 
tioned Parr's list of pure writers of English. R. added 
Soame Jenyns, Blackstone, &c. Rogers, Lord St. John, 

* Notwithstanding her brother's raillery, Mrs. Harvey was a very 
accomplished, as well as a very amiable woman. Ed. 



Ckrr. 1818.] THOMAS MOORE. 199 

(I think), and Lord Lauderdale were in Mr. Fox's room 
in Stable Yard a short time before his death*, when 
Sheridan called. " I jnust see hiin, I suppose, " said Fox, 
and when S. came in, put out his hand to liim. S. has 
since told Rogers that, when Fox called him over and 
shook him by the hand, he said in a low voice, *^ My dear 
Sheridan, I love you ; you are indeed my friend ; as for 
those others, I merely," &c. &c. This was an excellent 
invention of Sheridan, who knew no one would contradict 
him. Talked of the Scotch novels. When Wilkie the 
painter was taking his portraits of Scott's famjly, the 
eldest daughter said to him, " We don't know what to think 
of those novels. We have access to all papa's papers. He 
has no particular study ; writes everything in the midst 
of us all; and yet we never have seen a single scrap of the 
MS. of any of these novels ; but still we have one reason 
for thinking them his, and that is, that they are the only 
works published in Scotland of which copies are not pre- 
sented to papa." The reason against is stronger than the 
reason for : Scott gave his honour to the Prince Regent 
they were not his ; and Rogers heard him do the same to 
Sheridan, who asked him, with some degree of brusgueriey 
whether he was the author of them. All this rather con- 
firms me in my first idea that they are not Scott's. An- 
other argimient between us, on the justifiableness of a man 
asserting so solemnly that a book was not his, when it 
really was : I maintained that no man had a right to put 
himself into a situation which required lies to support him 
in it. R. quoted Paley about the expediency of occasionally 
lying, and mentioned extreme cases of murder, &c., which 
had nothing whatever to do with the point in question ; 

♦ This must have happened before Mr. Fox removed to Chiswick. 
—Ed. 

o 4 



\~- 



200 DIABT OP [^TAT. 39. 

and wliicli certainly did not conTince me that Scott could 
be at all justified in such a solemn falsehood. At last IL 
acknowledged that saying " on his honour " was going too 
far; as if the simple solemn assertion was not equally- 
sacred. We walked through the Devizes fields to meet 
^ Crowe. Three, half-past three, quarter to four, no sign 
of him ; returned to the cottage disappointed, and found 
he had been there waiting two hours for us. Hitherto 
all was well ; but unluckily returning from Marl- 
borough, came for his wife, and Bessy asked him to stay- 
dinner with us. Here was Rogers's poetical dinner 
knocked up at once. What was to be done ? Put as 
good a face on it as possible, and after standing a side- 
long volley or two from Sam, — such as "asking one is 
sure to bring more;" ^' where a wife comes, the husband 
tcill make liis way;" " the woman alone wouldn't have 
been so bad;" **but had expected to meet nobody but 
Crowe," &c. &c. After this we got on very smoothly ; 
— a very quiet and gentleman-like listener^ and his wife 
a very rosy and good-humoured hoker-on ; Crowe a fine 
old man, but has lost everything of verse except the 
longs and shorts. Talked of ]!^f ilton : his greater laxity 
of metre in the " Paradise Regained" than in the " Para- 
dise Lost." R. thought this was from system, but Crowe 
and I thought it from laziness. Crowe had reckoned 
the instances of lines with supernumerary syllables, 
and found more in the first two books of " Paradise Re- 
gained " than in all " Paradise Lost." The beauty of 
monosyllable verses, " He jests at scars," &c. ; the couplet, 
*^ Sigh on my lip : * * * Give all thou canst," &c. ; and 
many others, the most vigorous and musical perliaps of 
any. Personifications; Thomson's *' See where the power* 
of cultivation," &c. But the most ridiculous of all is Dar- 
win's " And Indignations half unsheathe their swords.'* 



Oct. 1818.] THOMAS MOOBE. 201 

A little corp8 of indignations ! Darwin mounts Kirwan 
the philosopher on a chameleon^ guiding it with a silk 
string. To read of a man that one knows and meets 
every day being mounted on a chameleon. The tax- 
gatherers might hear of it, and inquire w^hether the 
gentleman had duly given in his chameleon. Talked of 
Combe ; said to be the writer of Macleod's ** Loo-Choo," 
as he certainly was of Lord Ly ttleton's *^ Letters," and many 
other books of other people's. ** Doctor Syntax" is his. 
Combe kicked Lord Lyttleton downstairs at some water- 
ing-place, for having ridiculed Lady Archer by calling 
her a drunken peacock, on account of the sort of rainbow 
feathers and dress she wore. Lord L. also had rolled a piece 
of blancmange into a ball, and, covering it with variegated 
comfits said, '^ This is the sort of egg a drunken peacock 
would lay." Crowe knew Mickle, who was a compositor 
for the press : thinks a poem of Mickle's, called *^ Sir 
]Martin," equal to Beattie's ^^ Minstrel." Bowles's personifi- 
cation of *' the Spirit of Discovery by Sea" as bad as any. 
The Spirit of Discovery by Land is, I suppose, the police 
of Bow Street. Sung for them in the evening. Showed 
them a poem sent to me a few months since, written by a 
gii'l of fourteen : Crowe's comments on it highly aniusing. 
The Lansdownes sent their carriage for Rogers. The 

and Crowe stayed to supper ; and after the MUtonic 

veteran was well priined with brandy and water, I saw 
him across the valley with my lantern to Hughes's, where 
he had a bed, Bessy's precarious state not admitting of a 
stranger in the house just now. 

23rd. Crowe to breakfast. Received a letter from Jane 
Kearney, wanting another epitaph shorter than the one I 
sent for her father, and hinting that it would be better if 
somewhat more solemn and religious. Walked over with 
Crowe to call at Bowood; met Rogers^ who returned with 



202 DIARY OF [iETAT. 39. 

US the.rc. Saw Lord Lansdowne — kirid and amiable as 
usual I find he gains upon one's heart in the true way^ 
piano € sano. Talked to Crowe about Lewesdon Hill^ 
which, for the first time, I learned is near Bridport. Spoke 
of Bishop Shipley, and about the dialogue which gave 
rise to the trial ; and which, I think Parr told me, was 
written originally by Shipley ; but I must be wrong ; it was 
only published by Shipley* Talked of Sir W. Jones, who 
died at forty-seven; and so did Addison. Addison, accord- 
ing to the tradition of Holland House, used, when com- 
posing, to walk up and down the long gallery there, with 
a bottle of wine at each end of it, which iie finished during 
the operation. There is a little white house, too, near the 
turnpike, to which he used to retire when the Countess 
was particularly troublesome. Walked through the grounds 
of Bowood. Crowe repeated some political things he had 
written, and which he is half inclined to publish, under the 
title, " Sweepings of my Uncle's Study ;" one of them was 
on the birth of the King, and rather poetically imagined : 
he supposes the good and evil Genii all assembled on the 
occasion, and the latter spoiling every gift which the 
former conferred on the infant. Two lines I remember for 
their rhyme : he describes the evil Genii with feces livid 
as those one sees 

" After a battle, such as Cribb's is, 
And Bpiteful as Sir Yicary Gibbs is.** 

Ketumed home to dinner at four ; went to bed early, and 
was called up by Bessy at half-past eleven o'clock: sent for 
the midwife, who arrived between one and two, and at a 
quarter before four my darling Bessy was safely delivered 
of a son (and heir in partibus), to my unspeakable delight, 
for never had I felt half such anxiety about her. I walked 
about the parlour by myself, like one distracted; some- 



Oct. 1818.J THOMAS MOORE. 203 

times stopping to pray, sometimes opening the dpor to 
listen; and never was gratitude more fervent than that 
with which I knelt down to thank God for the dear girls 
safety, when all was over — (the maid, by the by, very 
near catching me on my knees). Went to bed at six 
o'clock. 

24th. Hose at half-past nine. Bessy and the little hero 
surprisingly well. Wrote to Lord Lansdowne, Bogers, 
&c. : Lord Lansdowne's answer most friendly and flatter- 
ing. I wish he had ofiered to be godfather; had not 
courage to ask him. Walked to Devizes for money : drew 
on Wilkie for 40i: the little prodigal is no sooner bom 
than money is wanted for him. Returned to dinner at five. 

25th (Sunday)* Kesumed my Sheridan task, from 
which I have been diverted and disturbed all the last week. 
At Bessy's request read prayers by her bedside, and joined 
heartily with her in thanksgiving for her safe delivery. 

26th. Delicious weather. Told by King, the apothe- 
cary, that he has received letters from Yorkshire, saying 
that the common people there are alarmed at the unusual 
warmth of the season, and think that something miraculous 
is about to happen. Walked about all day, woi^ng at S. 
Li the evening read "Joseph Andrews" to Bessy : have not 
read it since I was a boy, and had forgot how gratuitously 
gross many of the scenes are. 

27 th. Dined at Bowood. Bogers went away yester- 
day. The company, besides the Aucklands, Lord and 
\ Lady Ilchester, two sons of Bobus Smith, Mr. and Mrs. 
/ Oakden, and Lysons, the Magna Britannia man, come to 
see Lord Ilchester about some Boman pavement which 
has been found on his lordship's estate. Had some con- 
versation with Lord Lansdowne before dinner. Talked of 
the impeachment of Hastings ; asked him his impression on 



204 DIART OF [^TAT. 39. 

the subject. He 8:ud he looked upon Hastings as an irre- 
gular man^ using violent means for purposes^ which, perhaps, 
nothing but irregular and violent means would answer^ as 
his command and situation in India were of such a parti- 
cularlj difficult and embarrassing nature. Agreed with 
me, that the impeachment was a sort of dramatic trial of 
skill, got up from the various motives I mentioned : to 
which he added, what had not struck me before, Dundas's 
fear of Hastings' ascendancy in Indian affairs, both from 
his knowledge and talent, and his favour with the King, 
to whom the arbitrariness of Hastings' government was 
rather a recommendation of him : Dundas used India as a 
sort of colony for Scotland. Talked of the great question 
about the abatement of an impeachment by dissolution 
of ParKament, upon which the lawyers and statesmen 
divided, and the latter had the best of it in every respect : 
Erskine too much of a lawyer not to join his craft on this 
occasion. When Burke was told of Eiskine's opinion, 
" What ! " said he, *^ a nisi-prius lawyer give an opinion on 
an impeachment ! as well might a rabbit, that breeds fiftj 
times in the year, pretend to understand the gestation of 
an elephant." How admirable this is I Tried Lord Lans- 
downe on the subject of coalitions, and said that nothing 
could be more absurd than to condemn that sort of coali- 
tion, of which all parties must consist, made up as they 
are of individuals differing in shades of opinion, but com- 
promising these differences for the sake of one general 
object ; but that it was quite another thing when the op- 
position in sentiments was not only total and radical, but re- 
cently and violently expressed. Here we were interrupted. 
At dinner sat next to Lord Auckland. Talked of Bowles 
and extempore preachers : the broken metaphors to which 
they are subject. Mentioned that I remembered, when a 



Oct. 1818.] THOMAS MOORE. 205 

boy, hearing Ejrwan talk of the '^ Glorious lamp of day on 
its march ;^^ and ConoUy, a great Roman Catholic preacher, 
say, " On the wings of Charity the torch of Faith was 
borne, and the Gospel preached from pole to pole." Lord 
A. mentioned a figure of speech of Sir R. Wilson at South- 
wark, " As well might you hurl back the thunderbolt to 
its electric cradle." This led to 's oratory : men- 
tioned I had heard him on the trial of Guthrie, and the 
ludicrous effect which his mixture of flowers with the mat- 
ter-of-fact statement produced ; something this way : " It 
was then, gentlemen of the jury, when this serpent of se- 
duction, stealing into the bowers of tliat earthly paradise, 
the lodgings of Mr. Guthrie, in Gloucester Street, when, 
embittering with his venom that heaven of happiness, where 
all above was sunshine, all below was flowers, he received 
a card to dine with the Connaught Bar at the Porto-Bello 
Hotel," &c. When I told Curran of the superabundant 
floridness of this speech, he said, " My dear Tom, it will 
never do for a man to turn painter, merely upon the strength 
of having a pot of colours by him, imless he knows how to 
lay them on." Lord L. told a good story of his French ser- 
vant, when Mansell, the Master of Trinity, came to call upon 
him, announcing him as " Maitre des Ceremonies de la 
Trinitc." Talked of the " Pursuits of Literature," and the 
sensation it produced when published. Matthias's Italian 
poetry : Mr. Oakden said he had heard Florentines own he 
came nearer their poetry than any other foreigner had done, 
but that still he was but a foreigner at it. I mentioned a 
translation, by W. Spencer, of a song of mine ("The 
Wreath you wove") into Italian, which passed with me 
and others for legitimate, till one day I repeated it to 
Buonaiuti*, and when I came to " Un foglio inaridito" (one 

* The Librarian of Holland House. 



206 BIABV OF I.Etat.39. 

faded leaf), he said, ** Wrong : foglio is the leaf of a book ; 
the leaf of a tree is foglia." This annihilated it at once, 
for una foglia would not suit the metre. Talked of the 
unlucky number thirteen at dinner. Mentioned that, at 
Catalani's one day, perceiving there was that number at 
dinner, she sent a French countess, who lived with her, up- 
stairs, to remedy the grievance ; but, soon after. La Cainea 
coming in, the poor moveable countess was brought down 
again. Lord L. said he had dined once abroad, with 
Count Orloff, and perceived he did not sit down at dinner, 
but kept walking round from chair to chair; and he found 
afterwards from Orloff it was because the Narishhin (I 
think) were at table, who he knew would rise instantly if 
they perceived the number thirteen, which Orloff would 
have made by sitting down himself. Lord L. said that 
blackguard was a word of which he could not make out 
the origin. It had been said it was from a guard of 
soldiers in black, who attended at the execution of Charles 
the First ; but the word was, he believed, older than that 
period ; and, besides, it did not appear that any such cir- ^ 
•cumstance took place. Music in the evening. Mrs. Oak- 
den played the " Banz des Vaches " and the beautiful 
** Chaconne " of Jomelli. 

28th. Trying to be busy, but not doing much. Before 
going to bed, played over some of Haydn's quartetts, and 
a lesson or two of Kozeluch's. I used to like Kozeluch 
as a boy, and expected more in him now than I find. 
This is the way in everything; the pleasure of being 
easily pleased seldom survives our youth. 

29th. Have got Sheridan fairly married at last, and 
now enter into a new region of his life, for which my 
viatica are not half so abundant as in the early part of the 
journey. Mrs. Bowles called with a Mr. D a quiet. 



Oct. 1818. J THOMAS MOORE. 207 

precise-mannered man, who invited me to Oxford : he 
said that a sort of Pompeii has been discovered at Bath ; 
a great part of a Koman street or streets^ and some remains 
of the houses ; about 3000 coins, too, discovered. Dined 
^th Hughes : asked him what was the feeling of the 
natives in India about Hastings when he was there : he 
said they quite worshipped his name; he saw an old 
Srahmin nearly go down on his knees in mentioning him. 
30th. Worked a little at " Sheridan ; " badly off for 
materials ; almost reduced to Watkins. Received the Edin- 
burgh Magazine (Blackwood's) for November. A mali- 
* cious and canting article in it against myself, in which the 
fellow has both misrepresented and misquoted my song of 
*' The Legacy," which he says I have put into the mouth 
of a " dying poet.** What a blockhead 1 with these two 
lines that begin one of the verses, staring him in the 
face — 

" Keep this cup^ which is now o'erflowing, 
To grace your revel when I'm at rest." 

I find I am no gainer by the ch ange of Ministry in this 
magazine: used to be praised in it before Murray came 

into power: how's this? Dined with , very dull; 

but he gave us claret; et c*est toujours quelque chose ^ 
dulness and port together are the devil. Baffles has done 
a spirited thing at his new government (Bencoolen): he 
has dismissed his bodygu9.rd, and says he has full con- 
fidence in the Malays, whom he knows and trusts : this is 
the way to win a people. It is still more spirited if what 
— — says is true, that the last resident there was mur- 
dered. 

31 St. Walked into Devizes. Made, while I walked, 
the following stanza of a song supposed to be sung by 



208 DIABT OF [£tit.39. 

^lurray to the tune of the ** Christening of Little Joey," 
at a grand literary dinner which he ^ves : 

** Beware, je bards of eacli degree, 

Fiom Wordsworth down to Pack wood, 
Two rods Fve got to tickle ye — 

The ' Qaarterlj' and * Blackwood.' 
Not Cribb himself more handsomely 

Tour hollow noddles crack would ; 
TUjSb you in the * Quarterly,' 

And rmffUm you in ' Blackwood ! ' 

" So tremble, bards of each degree," &c. &c. 

Wrote a letter to the " Chronicle" rigned " J. P., Croydon," 
about the niisrepresentation and misquotation in Black- 
wooded article. Wrote also to Murray, hoping he would 
soon put into practice the intention Wilkie told me he had 
of coming down here, and sending him the above stanza 
for his amusement 

November 1st. Worked a little at " Sheridan." In the 
evening read "Joseph Andrews" to Bessy. How well 
Fielding knew human nature when he made the poor frail 
Betty such a ready and good-natured creature ! Received 
a long letter from my friend Dr. Parkinson, inclosing as 
usual a little sum for his goddaughter Anastasia; — an 
excellent man, and of a most gentle nature, ill-calculated 
to bear such a rebuff as he once had from Paley. Parkin- 
son was saying that Bakewell, the great breeder of cattle, 
had the power of fattening his sheep in whatever part of 
the body he chose, and could direct it to shoulder, leg, 
&c. just as he thought proper; *^and this," siys Parkin- 
son, '*is the great problem of his art." ^* It's a lie, sir," 
says Paley, ** and that's the solution of it." 

2nd. Received a letter from Mr. Croker (the Irish gen- 
tleman whom I have mentioned in the advertisement to 
the seventh number of my " Melodies," as ha^dng made us 



Nov. 1818.] THOMAS MOORE. 209 

many valuable communications) dated yesterday evening, 
'^ Castle Inn, Devizes, telling me lie had stopped on his way 
to London for the purpose of seeing me. Walked into 
Devizes; found him a much younger man than I expected, 
not quite one-and-twenty ; an enthusiast in the music and 
antiquities of Ireland. Ordered a chaise and brought him 
home to dinner with me. Told me of a good piece 
of waggery they have in the village where he lives, about 
three miles from Cork. The mayor of Cork, a very pom- 
pous knight, made many ostentatious displays during his 
office, and whatever he did, a club of these young fellows 
I who called themselves " the corporation," imitated. When 
he gave a dinner, they did the same, and sent out cards 
that were a sort of parody on his. When he went down 
the river in pomp to visit some public works, they had a 
sort of procession up the river to perform the same sort of 
ceremony on the Potato Quay. He had a medal struck 
to commemorate the half- centenary of the King's reign, 
and they had gingerbread struck on the same occasion ; 

and when he sent one of these medals to the Regent, they 

*i 

sent one of their gingerbreads to him, covered with gold 
leaf. I wonder the poor mayor did not die of it. Men- 
, tioned a tolerably fair punning jeu-JCesprity written by one 
of his friends, upon an attempt made by a Mr. Aikin to 
speak a prologue at a private play they had, in which he 
failed totally, and laid his failure upon the bad prompting 
of a Mr. Hardy, to whom he gave the manuscript for that 
j)urpose. I remember the following : 

I 

*' Aikin says Hardy prompts not loud enough ; 
Hardy has too much taste to read such stuff; 
Aikin was hardy to attempt to speak, 
Hardy was aikin (aching) for the speaker's sake." 

By his account there must be some very gay and clever 

VOL. II. P 



210 BIABY OF [iETAT.39i 

fellows in Cork. Brought me a translation of an Italian 
ode to Buonaparte^ which one of these Cork gentlemen 
wbhed to present to me. Grave me also some national 
airs copied out by himself in the most beautiful manner^ — 
I perfect specimens of calligraphy. He also draws with very 
1 great taste^ and engraves. Played and sung to him the 
seventh number^ which he had not seen. The chaise took 
him back to Devizes at nine. 

3rd. Mr. Estcoort Cmember for Devizes, and Lord 
Sidmouth's relative) called ; his second visit; and left an 
invitation for me to dinner on Monday next. Received a 
letter from Linley> in which he tells me that Sheridan's 
creditors mean to resist any exclusive property in his works. 
It was for this purpose, no doubt, the meeting of his cre- 
ditors was called by Burgess, the solicitor, the other day 
in an advertisement, which surprised me not a little, in the 
^* Chronicle." What effect this will have upon the pub- 
lication of the works or life, I know not. Wilkie and 
Murray, it seems, are about to take advice of counseL 
Bead " Joseph Andrews " to Bessy after dinner. 

4th. Received two most civil and anxious letters from 
\ that great " Bibliopola Tryphon," Murray, expressing his 
regret at the article against me in " Blackwood," and his 
resolution to give up all concern in it if it contained any 
more such personalities. Bead, with a shock I have hardly 
ever felt before, the account of that great and amiable 
"J man Bomilly's death, in the papers. He has left a void 
behind in public life that no one can fill up. But what a 
splendid martyrdom to conjugal love! She was too, if 
T mistake not, a simple, gay, unlearned wom9,n; no Bhie; 
no, if she had been, such a man as Romilly could not have 
loved her so much. 

5th. Miserably wet day. Bessy ill, and myself in the 



-f 



Nov. 1818.] THOMAS MOORE. 211 

blue devils: such days are hardly existence. Wrote to 
Dr. Parr, to remind him that he had promised to be 
godfather, if my forthcoming babe should prove to be a 
son. Think of Bichard Power for the other sponsor: 
should like Lord Lansdowne, but hate asking ; and Bessy, 
who is independence to her heart's core, hates it still 
more. 

6th. A dinner at Phipps's hanging over me all the 
morning : resolved however, about three, to send an apology 
and dine at home, which was a relief from my ffaj/-mare. 
While I was at dinner Lord Lansdowne called ; was de- 
nied to him ; but he asked to write a note, and the maid 
was showing him upstairs, so in my alarm lest he should 
surprise Bess, 1 made my appearance, and brought him 
into the parlour, T^here the little things and I were in the 
very thick of boiled beef and carrots. He sat some time ; 
talked of poor E-omilly ; said he had hardly slept since 
he heard of the circumstance ; wondered they had not 
applied leeches. I asked whether R.*s affection for his 
wife was so very strong as to account for this effect ; he 
said it was; but Romilly was a stem, reserved sort of 
man, and she was the only person in the world to 
whom he wholly unbent and unbosomed himself; when 
he lost her, therefore, the very vent of his heart was 
stopped up. Said he came to ask me to meet Dugald 
Stewart at dinner either next day or the day after. The 
Stewarts have been at Bowood now three or four days, 
and leave him on Monday. Fixed Sunday to dine there. 
Felt my long-thought-K)f request for him to be godfather 
rising to my tongue, and thought I might as well let it 
out ; did so ; and he consented with much kindness, saying 
he was proud " to be elected " to the office. Bead ** Joseph 
Andrews " to Bessy in the evening. 

p 2 



212 DIARY OP [iETAT. 39. 

7 th. Thought of a good project for a political squib, — 
a series o( flash letters from the pugilists that have been 
"^i exhibiting at Aix-la-Chapelle. *Twill not take me long, 
and the hitch in the Sheridan business gives me a breath- 
ing-time from that work, which I begin to be tired of a 
little. Beceived a box of books from Hookham's. Looked 
over the " History of Hastings' Trial," — ^a trumpery catch- 
penny ; cannot be the history of the trial, which both 
Lord Holland and Lord Lansdowne mentioned to me as 
good. 

8th. Received the promised packet from Linley, con- 
taining his sister's poems, &c. There is one of Sheridan's 
in it ; little else that I can use. Sent me also his own 
published volume of poetry, and his Shakspeare music. 
Went on with my flash work which I had begun the 
day before; forty lines already. Received a note from 
one of Burdett's pretty daughters, inclosing some na- 
- I tional airs she had got for me ; oncy she said (the Fin- 
land air, with words), would particularly please me. This 
happens to be my own; at least, words and arrange- 
ment. I have written to tell her so. Walked to Bowood 
y a little after five. Company at* dinner: Dugald Stewart^ 
' his wife and daughters, the Miss Edgeworths and Bowleses. 
Very pleasant day. Sat between Lady L. and Miss 
Edgeworth at dinner ; both in their different ways very 
delightful Talked with Miss E. of the Dublin Mrs. Le- 
fanu, whom she seemed to have a higher notion of alto- 
gether than I had. I asked her whether the play Mrs. L. 
had written was not pretty good. " Oh no, pretty bad,'* 
she. answered. She had, however, derived her opinion of 
Mrs. L.'s talents from a common friend of theirs, who 
loved her very inuch. This friend told her that Mrs. Le- 
fanti had seen a letter to Sheridan from one of tlie persons 



Not. 1818.] THOMAS MOORE. 213 

high in the American Government, towards the latter end 
of the war, expressing, great admiration of his talents and 
political opinions, and telling him that 20,000/. were de- 
posited with a certain banker, ready for him to draw, as a 
mark of their value for his services in the cause of liberty. 
She had also seen S.'s answer, in which, with many grati- 
fied acknowledgments of their high opinion, he begged 
leave to decline a gift communicated under such circum- 
stances. Hope this is true. Said she would get the par- 
ticulars. Reminded me of the night she saw me as 
Mungo, at a masquerade at Lady Besborough's. Told her 
this was the last folly I had been guilty of in the masque- 
rading way. Brought to my mind a pun I had made in 
her hearing that night. Lady Clare said, " I am always 
found out at a masquerade." " That shows," answered I, 
** you are not the clair-obscure." Did very well from 
Mungo. Stewart talked much of Charles Sheridan, whom 
he knew and thought highly of. Mentioned a letter pub- 
lished by him without his name, addressed to Blackstone, 
upon some assertion of his respecting parliaments. Stewart 
heard S.'s Begum speech in Westminster Hall ; thought 
some parts particularly fine ; but said the transitions from 
the prepared declamation to the laxity of his business 
statements were sudden and ill-managed. Burke, from 
preparing these parts also, always managed the transition 
finely and imperceptibly.. Talked of George Selwyn. 
Lord L. told a good thing of him. When George Gren- 
ville one night, in the house, was taken ill and fainted 
away, Selwyn cried out, " Why don't you give him the 
Journals to smell to?" Bowles objected to the lines of 
Bums, 

" And yet the light tliat led astray 

Was light from Heaven I ** 

p 3 



214 DIARY OP [-aETAT.39. 

ad profane ; and Lord L. rather agreed with him, con- 
sidering them critically. I endeavoured to defend them. 
The best gifts may be abused so as to lead astray, and 
yet they all come from Heaven ; or something to this 
purpose. Stewart siud my defence was ingenious. Lord 
L. also took to pieces Campbell's passage in " Lochiel,'' 
'^ 'Tis the sunset of life," as physically false. I sang in the 
evening. Stewart I was happy to see much delighted. 
When I met him some years ago at Lord Moira's, I 
watched him while I sang, and saw him, when I had 
finished, give a sort of decisive blow to the sofa, which he 
was reclining against. This gesticulation puzzled me, and 
I could not tell whether it was approbation or condemna- 
tion ; but I am satisfied now. I never saw any man that 
seemed to feel my singing more deeply; the tears fre- 
quently stood in his eyes. Miss Edgeworth, too, was 
much affected. This is a delightful triumph to touch these 
higher spirits ! 

9tL Bowles called: is in a great fidget about his 
answer to Brougham ; brought me a copy of it ; showed 
me a note he had just had in praise of it, &om his friend 
the Bishop of London, beginning "my dear Bowles.** 
Had a letter from Lees, of the county of Wicklow, begging 
me to decide the question which was producing " a sort of 
civil war" in the neighbourhood, whether I wrote my song 
of *^ The Meeting of the Waters" under Castle Howard, 
at the meeting of the Avon and Avoca, or at the meeting 
of the rivers, four miles lower down, under Ballyarthur 
House. William Pamell wrote to me on the same subject 
two or three years since. The fact is I wrote the song at 
neither place, though I believe the scene under Castle 
Howard was the one that suggested it to me. But all 
this interest shows how wise Scott was in connecting his 
poetry with beautiful scenery : as long as the latter blooms. 



Nov. 1818.] THOMAS MOORE. 215 

SO will the former. Twenty lines more of my flash 
epistle. 

10th. Twenty lines more. Went to Deyizes to dinner^ 
at Salmon's. The company, Pearse, the member for De- 
vizes, and his family^ the Grubbs, &c. Pearse, a good, 
hearty, jolly man of the world ; knows everybody ; was 
intimate with Sheridan; told me his astonishment the 
other day at seeing, on looking over the books of an in- 
surance office, 40,000/. opposite the name of a pawnbroker 
in Wardour Street. Immense insurance for a pawnbroker. 
Found he had been the person always employed by She- 
ridan for his deposits in this way, and that he now has a 
great number of articles of his, some of which (being cor^ 
poration cups, &c., with inscriptions) the family are about 
to redeem. Some tolerable conundrums mentioned by the 
ladies : — ** Why is the Prince of Homburg like a successful 
gamester ? — Because he has gained a great Bet. " " Why 
doesn't U go out to dinner with the rest of the alphabet ^ 
— Because it always comes after T." " What are the only 
two letters of the alphabet that have eyes? — A and B, 
because ABC (see) D." I mentioned one or two of 
Beresford's (author of the " Miseries of Human Life "), 
most ludicrously far-fetched. *' Why is a man who bets on 
the letter O that it will beat P in a race to the end of the 
alphabet, like a man asking for one sort of tobacco and 
getting some other ? — Because it is wrong to back O 
(tobacco)." *' Why must a man who commits murder in 
Leicester Square necessarily be acquitted? — Because he 
can prove ma alley by (alibi)." Went to the ball in the 
evening; danced with one of the Miss Pearse's; then 
with a fine rosy girl of fifteen. Miss Daniels, the beUe of 
the room ; and afterwards with Mrs. Phipps. Not home 

and in bed till four. 

p 4 



216 DIARY OF [^TAT.33. 

11th. Twenty more flash lines; in all now one 
hundred; 

13th. Bowles culled in his carriage to take me to call 
at Mr. Estcourt's. Forgot that I had fixed with him to 
do so; couldn't get off, of course. He had, by my 
recommendation, read Campbell's ** O'Connor's Child," 
and, as I expected, thought it beautiful. liVe again talked 
of the passage in " Lochiel," about ** the sunset of life : " 
found, upon consideration, my former defence of it not 
tenable. It is certainly an inaccurate image, but there is 
something fine even in its vagueness. Kead Davies' 
**Life of Garrlck." Nearly finished my first flash 
epistle. Borrowed Grose's " Slang Dictionary " from 
Hughes, which will be of much service to the cause. 

14th. Received American editions of different works 
of mine; "Lalla Kookh" is the third. Another poem 

from Miss L W— — , the young poetess of fourteen, 

who before addressed something to me; a wild-brained 
little thing. Asked to dine with Locke next Thursday. 
Had a letter from Wilkie, explaining that the meeting of 
the creditors was called by Charles Sheridan, who has 
hopes of so far satisfying them as to be enabled to give 
Wilkie and Murray a legal title to the papers we have had 
from them. Wrote to Tighe, advising him not to publish 
Mrs. Tighe's novel, as I could not in conscience encourage 
the Longmans to give such a price for it as would be 
worth his while to accept. To-morrow my sweet Bessy's 
birthday. 

15th (Sunday). This day my own excellent Bessy has 
completed her twenty-fifth year : she is much better this 
morning. Heaven send her many happy returns of this 
anniversary ! Began another slang epistle. Finished 
*' Joseph Andrews" to Bessy in the evening. 



Nov. 181S.] THOMAS MOOKE. 217 

1 6th. "Went on with another slang epistle. Shall re- 
turn to ** Sheridan** with more pleasure after tliis change 
of key. Read the " Vicar of Wakefield" to Bessy in the 
evening. What a gem it is ! we both enjoyed it so much 
more than "Joseph Andrews." A man had come in the 
morning, a young Irishman, and said his wife had been 
delivered of twins on the road, and was lying without 
any comforts for them at a house in Sandy Lane: never 
could he have found Bessy in a tenderer mood for such a 
stor3\ She had a large jug of caudle made instantly, 
which she gave him, with two little caps and two shifts 
out of the stock she keeps for the poor, a pound of sugar, 
8ome tea, and two shillings ; one of which was my gift, 
because he was an Irishman. 

17th. Our Irish friend did not bring back the pitcher 
as he promised. Suspicions began to arise ; walked to 
Phipps's ; called at the cottage where the fellow said his 
wife and twins were lying ; found 'twas all a cheat. Sad 
hai*dener3 of the heart these tricks are. Taken by Phipps 
in his gig to Laycock Abbey (the Grosset's); passed 
through Spye Park, and by Mrs. Dickinson's ; a beautiful 
country. Head the " Vicar of Wakefield" to Bessy in the 
evening. 

1 8th. Walked my dear Bessy for the first time into the 
garden ; the day delightfuL She went round to all her 
flower beds to examine their state, for she has every little 
leaf in the garden by heart. Took a ramble afterwards 
by myself through the Valley of Chitoway, and the fields. 
Exactly such a day as that described so beautifully by the 
sacred poet Herbert : 

" Sweet day, so cool, so calm, so bright, 
The bridal of the earth and sky ; 
Sweet dews shall weep thy fall to-night, 
For thou must die." 



218 DIARY OF [JEtat. 39. 

Wrote some more of my flash epistle ; and, in the evening, 
finished the " Vicar of Wakefield" to Bessy ; we both cried 
over it. Returned thanks to God most heartily for the 
recovery of my darling girl, and slept soundly. 

19th. From between eleven and twelve till half-past 
three, in the garden and in the fields. Found in Grose 
what Lord L. alluded to the other day, the favourite 
toast of the Tories and Catholics in Ireland, " To the 
little Gentleman in Velvet;" meaning the mole, whose 
hillock tripped up King William's horse. Crop. Walked 
Bessy in the garden for half an hour. In the evening, 
read her some of a most siUy novel, called the *^ Physiog- 
nomist" 

20th. Another delicious day ; enjoyed it thoroughly. 
Went on with the slaiig epistle. It seems profanation to 
write such buffoonery in the midst of this glorious sun- 
shine ; but, alas ! money must be had, and these trifles 
bring it fastest and easiest. Read some of " Davies' Gar- 
rick ;" and in the evening that most stupid " Physiogno- 
mist" to Bessy : when one begins anything in the way of a 
story, there is no leaving it off. 

21 St. Walked to Bowood, to call on Lord Lansdowne. 
Always kind and agreeable. Told him I was going to 
town. He said he could have taken me in the middle of 
the week ; but, unluckily, I have engaged myself to go 
with Macdonald, who has taken our places in the coach. 
Lord L. asked me what was the poem of Prior's I had 
once mentioned to him as very pretty ; he had been 
often trying to recollect it. It was ** Dear Chloe, how 
blubbered," &c. &c. We took it down and read it 
Nothing can be more gracefully light and gallant than 
this little poem. I mentioned Lowth's objections to 
the last two lines as ungrammatical, correctness requir- 



Nov. 1818.] THOMAS MOOBB. 219 

ing " than she" and ** than I ;" * but it is far prettier 
as it is. Lord L. mentioned a line of Kacine's, which 
D'Alembert (I think) says is bad grammar, though it 
would be less beautiful if more correct. Showed me a 
passage in Playfair, which he thought incorrect English. 
Talked of Dugald Stewart, and mentioned a good remark 
in the "Edinburgh Review," on the power he had of giving 
a new shade of meaning to a word without any injury to 
its pecdiar analogy, and preparing the reader's mind pre- 
viously to welcome in this new sense without hesitation. 
This is a power of great skill and delicacy. Lord L. 
walked with me, on my return, nearly home to my own 
house. 

23rd. Left home at eleven ; in coach about twelve. A 
jolly old farmer joined us part of the way ; talked of the 
late elections ; said he had given a plumper to Methuen 
because he had " flimg the bill (for the additional income 
of the Princes) out of the house ; " at the same time show- 
ing by his gesture that he imderstood that Methuen had 
actually thrown the bill out of doors. Upon finding 
Macdonald was in the navy, told him he had also when 
young thought of going aboard a merchant ship ; but his 
father said, ** Don't go with thet/, boy ; go with a man-of- 
war; thou bee'st scoUard enough for that." Fare to 
Reading, IL I2s.; slept there; share of the bill, 1/. Ss.; 
fare to town, I4.s, Macdonald told me some interesting 
naval stories ; particularly of Corbet's towing the French 
frigate off, after she had cut her cable to run on shore. 
Dined by myself at the George, opposite the Haymarket ; 
and had oysters at night at the York, in St. James's 
Street. 

* '* For thou art a girl as much prettier than her, 

As he in a poet sublimer than me.** Pbiob*8 Poems. 



220 DIARY OK [^Etat.39. 

24th. Called upon Power, and received Miss Lee's 
^j (Mr. Strutt's governess) volume, "Leaves," with copies 
to be presented to Rogers and Lady Morgan. She thus, 
at last, acknowledges it, after having long praised it to me 
as another's ; but I suspected her throughout. "Went to 
Longmans'; told them of my intention immediately to 
break up my deposit, leaving only 515/. in their hands for 
Anastasia; their promptitude and clearness in business 
most satisfactory. Went to Toller, my proctor, about my 
Bennuda business : showed him the letters I had received, 
which gave him some hopes that the claimants cannot prove 
the money was ever paid into my office : left the letters 
. with him. Met Taylor, editor of the " Sun," who told 
I me an anecdote of Sheridan. VVfiStr-soIfie severe charges 
against him (relating, Taylor said, to his aifair with 
Matthews) appeared in the "Bath Chronicle," he called 
upon Woodfall, printer of the ** Chronicle," and requested 
him to insert them, in order that they might gain universal 
circulation, and that his answer, which he meant soon to 
prepare, might be understood as universally. "Woodfall 
complied with his request, but the refutation never was 
written ; so that the venom was by this means spread, and 
Ins indolence prevented him from ever supplying the 
antidote. Taylor said he was going to pass the evening 
' — I with Peter Pindar, who is now e5ghty-one, and (as I 
understood him) bed-ridden ; but his mind still sprightly 
and vigorous. Repeated me the epigrams he had lately 
dictated to him, upon Lawrence's yery juvenile picture of 
the Regent The point of one was, that the Regent, so 
far from being slim as represented by Lawrence, would, if 
he went to Greenland Dock, be boiled down as blubber. 
It is amusing enough to contrast the politics of Taylor's 
paper with his conversation and sentiments in private. 



Nov. 1818.] THOMAS MOORE. 2'21 

How the public is humbugged ! Called upon Ladj 
Donegal, who had just returned from a range of royal visits 
at Kew, Carlton House, &c : very indignant at the way 
the Queen's chanxcter is vilified in the newspapers. Don't 
wonder she defends the Queen, who was always veiy kind 
to her; and once, I recollect, did her the honour of work- 
ing a handkerchief for her, like one of her own, which 
Lady D. admired. Happy to find dear Lady D. so 
much better. She and her sisters admirable creatures. 
Dined with the Longmans. Saw the replies to the 
Fudges, printed so like mine, that Davidson the printer 
said he would at first sight take his oath it was the same 
book. Impudent thing — putting the name of '^ Thomas 
Brown" to the catch-penny. Looked over the file of the 
*^ St. James's Chronicle" for 1772, and found an extract of 
a letter from Bath about Sheridan. Found that Murray 
had shown my verses about the " Quarterly" and " Black- 
wood" to several, who were much amused with them. 
Eat shrimps at the York at night. 

25th. Received a letter from Lord Holland asking me 
to Holland House, and bidding me " bring my night-cap." 
Answered for the next day. Called upon Wilkie. The 
Sheridan business in a very awkward way. Burgess, the 
solicitor who called the creditors, evidently a creditor him- 
self, and finding by the agreement of the booksellers with 
Mrs. T. Sheridan, that there are thousands talked of, is 
resolved to have a finger in the pie. Very natural, but 
very likely to upset the whole concern. Burgess told 
Murray there was but one creditor urgent, and that for 
350/. he would stop this nameless person's mouth. Quite 
the old Sheridan trick. This 350/. evidently for himself; 
but how could he have the face to say that such a sum 
would settle everything I Dined at the George ; and 



-1 



222 DIART OF [-Ctat. 39, 

went to Lady D. (whom I had promised to dine with) in 
the evening. Sung after tea, but was obliged soon to 
stop. Music has always a most powerful effect upon her; 
but^ in the present weak state of her nerves, one more audi 
song as " Oft in the Stilly Night" would have evidently 
thrown her into hysterics. Mr. C. came in ; a ei-devaitt 
jeune homme^ which is always a melancholy anachronism. 

26tlu Called upon Power, and mustered up courage 
enough to tell him that I could not take less than the 
clear 500il a-year in our future agreement, without any 
deductions, such as had been made before for the arrange- 
ment of my music ; left him to consider of it. Went to 
Holland House; had some conversation with Lord H. 
before dinner. Mentioned to me a curious scene which 
he had with Sheridan and the Prince while they were in 
power. S. having told him (while they waited in an ante- 
chamber) about some public letter which he had corrected 
or re-written for the Prince, the latter, on their admission 
to him, told quite a different story, referring to S., who 
all the while courteously bowed assent ; and, said Lord H., 
" I could not, for the soul of me, make out which was the 
liar." Some talk with Lord John Russell before dinner ; 
asked him about his ^^ Life of Lord Bussell," which I had 
heard he was about to publish. He told me he had shown 
it to Allen, who had made some criticisms on the style, 
and had particularly objected to the word " develope" as 
not English. This is nonsense ; the word is not only 
naturalised, but we have no other that will do in its place. 
" Unfold" or *^ lay open" do not mean half so much. The 
party at dinner : Lord John, Tierney, Sharpe, Wishaw, 
Boger Wilbraham, Kogers, and Mrs. Sydney Smith. Lord 
Holland's stories and mimicry of Parr highly diverting. 
Parr had lately written to him, desiring that he would read 



Nov. 1818.] THOMAS MOORE. 223 

*^ Imbonatus de Moribus Tragicomm." Somebody re- 
marked very justly that Parr knows the crossways of 
learning better than the highways ; — fond of surprising 
his readers with what seems English Latin (such 2&faciunt 
terrasy for "make the land,'' and capit, in the sense of 
*^ succeeds," or " takes"), and then producing his authority 
for it. In the evening much talk about Sheridan. The 
trial between him and Delpini about a joke which he put 
into "Robinson Crusoe," stolen from a pantomime of 
Delpini's, of which he had " had the reading." The joke 
consisted in pulling off a man's boot, and pulling the leg 
off toith it. I must inquire about this. It seems too 
comical to be true. Was it as "literary property" this 
joke was claimed? Sheridan told Tiemey that he had 
written the greater part of Tickell's " Anticipation." Lord 
H., too, told us that when the " Stranger" was first per- 
formed, he dined with Sheridan and Canning for the 
purpose of going to see it; and when S., pulling a 
bottle of wine from beside him, said, " I have a secret 
bottle here" (meaning to parody his own song in the 
*^ Stranger," " I have a silent sorrow here"). Canning re- 
marked, " You know, S., those verses are Tickell's," and 
referred to the place they were taken from ; on which 
S. answered, " But don't you know that I wrote most of 
those verses for Tickell?" This seems to agree with the 
assertion in Mrs. Crouch's " Memoirs," that the songs of 
the " Carnival of Venice" were by Sheridan, though they 
certainly are not at all like his style. But where is the song 
to be found from which is taken *' I have a silent sorrow 
here?" Tickell, all agreed, was a disagreeable fellow, and 
envied Sheridan. Sheridan's answer to Lord Lauderdale 
excellent. On the latter saying he would repeat some 
good thing S. had mentioned to him, "iVay dorCt, my dear 



224 DIARY OF [^TAT.39. 

Lauderdale; a joke in your month is no laughing matter 7* 
"We spoke of what he said to Tarlcton about the ass and 
the mule : it was with respect to the result of the war in 
Spain. They all pronounced it excellent, and I suppose 
it is so* ** Ask'st thou how long my love will stay ?" (a 
song of Sheridan's), which I have traced to Montreuil and 
Menage, is more immediately (as Lord Holland pointed 
out to me) taken from Hume's essay called the " Epi- 
curean." Lady Thanet was the person who had first re- 
marked this to him. Sheridan's ignorance of French. 
Lord H. mentioned how amusing it was, on the discussion 
of Lord Auckland's " Memorial to the States-General," to 
hear Sheridan and Dundas, neither of whom understood a 
syllable of French, disputing upon the meaning of the 
word " malheurcux^ while Mr. Fox, &c. sat by silent. *' I 
have always thought (said Dundas) that maleroo means 
* unfortunate gentleman.' " Lord H. imitated Lord Thin-« 
low. His phrase in a speech (resembling that of Johnson's 
*^ shallows are always clear"), " perspicuous, but, my lords, 
not less shallow for being perspicuous." Thurlow, all 
seemed to agree, a great humbug. Mr. Fox's saying, ^^ I 
suppose no one ever was so wise as Thurlow looksy — 
that is impossible." The Prince's unitation of Thurlow 
excellent. I mentioned I had heard him give it at his own 
table at Carlton House ; and Tom Sheridan told me the 
story with which he introduced it was made extempore. If 
Tom S. said true, it showed great quickness of invention. 
Lord H. told me of the Prince's mimicking Basilico, Mr, 
Fox's servant, saying to him (the Prince), " I have had de 
honneur, sare, of being at Windsor. I have see your 
fader; he looks as well as ever;" — the latter words spoken 
in a side whisper and a rueful face, as if sympathising 
with what he thought the Prince must feel at the intelli- 



Nov. 1818.] THOMAS MOORE. 225 

gence. Had some talk with Allen about coalitions: he 
referred me for his opinions upon that between Fox and 
Hiord Grenville, to the " History of Europe" in the " An- 
nual Register " for 1806, which he himself had written. 
With respect to the coalition of Fox and Lord North, he 
considered it to have been rendered quite necessary by 
the overwhelming power of the Court, which could not 
otherwise have been opposed than by a union of the two 
included parties. I asked Lord H. whose were the two 
famous jokes about the Bourbons and the peace which S., 
with his usual coolness in these matters, appropriated to 
himself? He said the former one was Sir A. Pigott's, 
and the latter Francis's. Francis was very angry at the 
robbery. Sheridan's witticisms (those which were his 
own) aU made a loistr^ and kept by him with a patience 
quite miraculous, till the exact moment when they might 
be brought forward with best effect. This accounts for 
his general silence in company, and the admirable things 
that came when he did speak. 

27th. Slept at Holland House. Walked before break- 
fast with Tiemey, Rogers, &c., in the garden, and read 
Luttrell's very pretty verses, written under Lord Hol- 
land's, in the seat called " Rogers's seat." The breakfast 
very agreeable : Lord Holland full of sunshine as usual. 
** He always comes down to breakfast (says Rogers very 
truly) like a man upon whom some sudden good fortune 
had just fallen." We talked of the oddity of the Scotch 
law terms; and Lord H. reminded Tiemey (who had 
been engaged in some Scotch lawsuit) of the doleful 
face with which he once told him that they had multo* 
propoinded him." He also mentioned the ludicrous effect 
Lord Lauderdale produced upon a company by ielling 
them, ^[ By the Lord, they have praconised Garthland,'* 

VOL. II. Q 



226 DIART OF [jEtat.39. 

t. €• precognisecL Walked into town with Tlemey* He 
thinks I shall have a good escape of it if my *^Life of 
Sheridan" is given up. Told me of the sequel of Sheri- 
dan's magnanimous refusal of the re^strarship of Malta 
for Tom ; wluch was his asking of Tiemey to get the 
place for him for somebody else. When Sheridan, upon 
the awkward business with Lord Yarmouth and the house- 
hold, called upon Tiemey, in the House, to attest his 
independent conduct in refusing the place for Tom, Her- 
ney, after haying stated what he knew of this part oi the 
story, asked (for says he, '^ I was in a devil of a passion''^ 
whether he should proceed to the rest of the transaction ? 
** No, thank you," says Sheridan very coolly, "that will da'* 
Tiemey said Sheridan was generally wrong about financial 
matters. It was certainly a fine holiday time for Mr. Pitt 
when he had no abler critic of his financial schemes than 
Sheridan. Pitt, however, had a very high idea of him^ 
and thought him, Tiemey said, " a far greater man than 
Mr. Fox." I remarked how soon great men are forgot in 
England: he thought at present Lord Chatham was better 
remembered than Mr. Pitt, — perhaps because his career 
was a popular one — •* with the mob, the whole of his course." 
Burke had done more mischief than any one. I remarked 
that even the good he had done by his early writings he 
had completely neutralised by his later ones ; for nothing 
in favour of liberty could be cited from the one, to which a 
totally contradictory and counteracting sentiment might not 
be brought forward ifrom the other. " Sheridan," Tiemey 
said, ** worked very hard when he had to prepare himself 
for any great occasion. His habit was, on these emergen- 
cies, to rise at four in the morning {can this be true ?), to 
light up a prodigious quantity of candles around him, and 
cat toasted muffins while he worked." Parted with Tiemey 



Nov. 1818.] THOMAS MOOBE. 227 

at Lord Boyle's^ and called upon Hobhonse^ who is quite 
sure of being elected for Westminster^ and ftirioas against 
the Whigs ; who, in return, are sulky towards him. Was 
to have walked out again with Tiemej, but missed him, 
and went by the stage. Party at dinner: Refers, Tiemey, 

-] Sharpe, and Mrs. Smith. Lord John dined with the Fox 
Club. Talked in the evening of the late George Ellis, of 
whom I knew but little. Kemarked how unintelligible and 
confused he was in his conversation (particularly upon 
business), though so clear in his style of writing. The 
conversation at dinner chiefly about Swift's wretched 
views of human life, and the pleasure he had in depre- 
ciating and degrading his species. His ** Yahoos " detest- 
able. Swift laboured to render every one disgusted 
with the world ; Voltaire only tries to make us laugh at 

— j everything in it. The one would make the most trifling 
things grievances; the other would make the most im- 
portant things ridiculous. Asked Lord H. whether he 
thought the Princess letters during the first Regency were 
really written by Burke, as I had some little su^icion that 
they might have been done by Sheridan ; though the style 
was peihaps too unambitious and chastised for him; as 
indeed it was for Burke. He sgdd he knew nothing about 
those letters, but Lord Minto, he believed, wrote much 
for the Prince at that time. S.'s conduct (Lord H. said) 
during that first Regency question, when he had perfect 
possession of the Prince, was highly fair and honourable. 
Had the pleasure of putting into Rogers's hand a draft 
for my long-owed debt of five hundred pounds. 

28th. Another very agreeable breakfast, though a very 
late one — not till nearly twelve o'clock. Tiemey men- 
tioned two bonmots of Mr. Pitt : one was his adding to 
Sir W. Curtis's toast Q' A speedy peace and soon"), 

Q 2 



228 DIAKY OF IjEtat.^9. 

** soon, if possible ;** and the other, his answer to some 
militia or yeomamy commander, who reminded him that 
they had stipulated never to quit the country,^ — " Never,** 
said Pitt, ^^ except in case of actual invasion.^ I also 
mentioned Sir W. Curtis's conundrum, " Why is a towel 
like a serpent ? — Because it's a wvperT* A blunder told 
of some Irishman, whose wife's brother was heir to a 
large fortune, saying, ** If my wife had been her brother, 
what a laige fortune," &c, &c. Talked of the Whig 
feeling that prevailed among the officers of the navy ; 
their idea that the navy is the parliamentary force, while 
the army belongs to the king. The navy offended by 
having the crown put over the anchor some years ago. 
This, I think, not true. The Prince, at one time, thought 
of giving red waistcoats and breeches to the navy ; at 
another time he is reported to have said, upon some con- 
sultation for a change of their costume, ^*D — n them; 
dress them how you will, you cannot make them look Jike 
gentlemen." Rogers mentioned to me a letter which 
Sharpe received from Sir J. Mackintosh the very day poor 
Komilly died, expressing an apprehension that he would be 
the next great man lost; and speaking very touchingly of 
him and other superior spirits, to whom they had been 
accustomed to look up in their " age of admiration." Sogers 
wished me to go and dine this day with his brother and 
sister at Highbury. I assented, if he would take upon 
himself to stand the brunt of Lady Holland's displeasure 
on the occasion. In for a very amusing scene between them 
on the subject, she insisting upon keeping me, and he 
most miraculously courageous and persevering in taking 
me away. " Why," says she to me, " do you allow him to 
dispose of you thus, like a little bit of literary property ? " 
Dined at Highbury, Miss Rogers very agreeable : men- 



V 



Not* 1818.] THOMAS MOOEE. 229 

tioned a letter she had had from a friend in Germany, 
saying that the Germans were learning English in order 
to read Lord Byron and me, Rogers mentioned too that 
Fearon, in his account of America, describes the conver- 
sation there as very much occupied about the same two 
personages. Must look at Fearon for this. Returned 
home to Duke Street. 

29th. Called upon Lord Lansdowne, who is returning 
to Wiltshire the day after to-morrow, and offers to take 
me. Cannot go. Called upon Perry, who has been very 
ill. Seemed to think that the coming in of the Duke of 
Wellington would lead ultimately to the break-up of the 
present administration. Asked me to dine with him to- 
morrow, when he half expected the Duke of Sussex to 
dine with him. Promised. Dined to-day with Scrope 
Davies to meet Jackson the boxer at my own request, as 
I want to pick up as much of the flash, from authority^ as 
possible. Some talk with Davies before dinner, about Lord 
Byron and me having been so near blowing each other's 
brains out : told him that Lord B. had said since he never 
meant to fire at me. Davies was with him at the time 
this hostile correspondence took place, and offered to bet 
upon friendship against fighting as the most likely re- 
sult. The event found him right. Lord B.'s conduct on 
this occasion was full of manliness and candour. Told 
him the particulars of an affair afterwards with Harry 
Greville, in which Byron employed me as his friend; 
Lcckie (the Sicilian Leckie) was Greville's. It was 
settled without a meeting. I refused to enter into any 
negotiation upon the letter which Greville had written to 
demand an explanation, as it was an offence in itself from 
the unbecoming terms in which it was couched. Leckie 
accordingly consented to withdraw the letter ; and, putting 



230 DIABT OF [^TAT. 89. 

a pen into my hand^ begged me to erase the passages I 
objected to. I made, of course, free use of the pen ; and 
he got Greville to write the letter over again, not telling 
him we had ever seen it. With such an accommodating 
second it was easy, of course, to settle the matter trium- 
phantly. Got yery little out of Jackson ; he makes, Davies 
iells me, more than a thousand a-year by teaching sparring. 
Caleb Baldwin is the teacher in the dity. 

30th. Dined with Perry. The Duke of Sussex did 
not come, so we had the princely dinner to ourselves. Told 
me how the B^ent had treated the Duke. On the latter's 
going to hear the will of the Queen read, he was kept 
near four hours waiting alone, and then told he must come 
again next day; but found afterwards they had been 
reading the will all the while he had been kept waiting. 
Looked over Smirke's beautiful **Don Quixote" in the 
evening. Found a note from Lady Holland on my re- 
turn home, saying they expect me to-morrow. 

December 1st. Called upon Gifford, editor of the 
''Quarterly;" have known him long, but forbore from 
calUug upon him ever since I meditated ^ Lalla Rookh," 
lest it might look like trying to propitiate his criticism ; 
the mildest man in the world till he takes a pen in his 
hand, but then all gall and spitefulness. Spoke of Hol- 
land House. He knew it, he said, by report ; wished there 
was a Holland House on the other side of the question, 
but there was not ; said it was in politics and literature 
what Sir J. Banks's house was in science ; and neither 
could be replaced. Asked me whether I was not dis- 
gusted by the vile imitation of the " Fudges " just come 
out. This took me by surprise a little. Went to Holland 
House in the stage. Had some conversation before dinner 
with !Rogers about his poem, which he is daQy adding 



^ 



Dec. 1818.] THOMAS MOORE. 231 

couplets to. Mackintosh's eiqpression, the " age of admi- 
ration," is the one now in the crucible. Party at dinner, 
Lord Alvanley, Berkeley Craven, Lady Affleck, Sharpe, 
and Refers. Sat next Lord Alyanley, and had much con* 
yersation with him about Lords Forbes and Sancliffe, and 
others of my early cronies. The conversation to-day of 
rather a commoner turn than usual, on account of thede ' 
slang bucks, but still very agreeable. Alvanley just hits 
that difficult line between the gentleman and the jolly fel- 
low, and mixes their shades together very pleasantly ; but 
Craven goes further. Though clever in his way, he is too 
decidedly jf?rt5A in his tones, words, manner, everything. 
When one meets him in such company, **one wonders 
how the devil he got there." Lord Holland told an ex- 
cellent story which he had heard from Latin, of a trick 
practised to attract people to a coffee-house in Paris, by 
annoimcing that they should see there an animal between 
a rabbit and a carp ; and when you went in, the man told 
you, with a grave face, that ** M. Lacep^e, the great na- 
turalist, had just sent for this curious animal, in order to 
make some experiment ; *^ mais voici," added he, ** ses re- 
spectable parens" (showing a rabbit and a carp), ** que vous 
trouverez tr^s int^ressans," &c &c. " Sheridan," Lord H. 
said, was ''an annual parliament and universal suffirage 
man," but it seemed rather as a waggery that he adopted 
it. " There is nothing like it," he would say; ** the most 
convenient thing in the world. When people come to you 
with plans of reform, your answer is ready : don't talk to 
me of your minor details; I am for annual parliaments 
and universal Buffi*age ; nothing short of that." 

2nd. Conversation at breakfast about late hours. The 
porter of the late Lord Jersey came to some one and com- 
plained he could not stay with the Jerseys, because my 

Q 4 



232 DIARY OP [-ETAT.39. 

lady was the yery latest woman in London." ** Well, but 
what then? All women of fashion are late^ you can 
sleep afterwards.'' ^' Ah no, sir, that's not all, for my 
lord is the earliest gentleman in London ; and, between 
the two, I get no sleep at alL" I mentioned the circum- 
Btance of a man from the country visiting his friend in 
town, and both sleeping in the same bed, without ever 
meeting for a fortnight Dined by myself at the George, 
and went afterwards to Covent Garden, to Lady Oxford's 
box. A rare set of Keformers surrounding her and her 
Hvely daughters: Hobhouse, Douglas Eannaird, Scrope 
Dayies. The play, a new tragedy, "Junius Brutus;" a 
good deal of merit in it. 

3rd. Called upon Carpenter, who told me for 200^ 
he would give me a receipt in full, my debt to him, in- 
cluding interest and book-account, being 450/. ; but as he 
was under so many obligations to me, he would reduce it 
to 200/. It is strange but Carpenter never, from my first 
dealings with him, would give me a regular account* 
Dined with Douglas and his pretty young wife ; and went 
with him, his sister, and wife's sister, to Covent Garden : 
the " Rivals " and " Kose d' Amour ; " some pretty music in 
the latter. Had gone in the morning to the pawnbroker in 
Wardour Street, of whom Pearce, the M. P. for Devizes, 
told me. The only piece of plate with an inscription on it 
he had of Sheridan's was one from the corporation of Staf- 
ford, and this Charles Sheridan bought ; but the books he 
had of Sheridan's (all in elegant bindings, presented to 
him by his friends, with their names in them), he had first 
sold in lots to different people. This pawnbroker seems 
to have behaved with great delicacy and disinterestedness. 
He might have made what he pleased by these books, hy 
signifying his possession of them to the world ; but he pre- 



Dbc 1818.] THOMAS MOOB&. 233 

ferred, as lie said^ getting little more than the money he 
paid for them^ to doing anything which might expose the 
memory and character of Sheridan. His name is Harri- 
son. I now recollect many years ago hearing Sheridan 
say, at Donington Park, that he was about to form a 
library, and not being rich enough to buy books, he had 
signified to his friends that nothing would be more wel- 
come to him than a gift of a set of books from eacL Lord 
Moira at the time gave him a very handsome set. It now 
appears into what vortex all these gifts were swallowed. 
The pawnbroker says there were some books among them 
with my name ; but I do not recollect having given him 
any. Found a note from Scrope Davies, on my return 
home very late, to say that we must be in our chaise for 
the fight (which I had engaged to go to see with him) at 
eight in the morning. 

4th. Breakfasted with Davies at seven. Walked to 
Jackson's house in Grosvenor Street ; a very neat establish- 
ment for a boxer. Were off in our chaise at eight. The 
immense crowds of carriages, pedestrians, &c. all along the 
rood — the respect paid to Jackson everywhere, highly 
comical. He sung some flash songs on the way, and I 
contrived to muster up one or two myself, much to Scrope 
Davies's surprise and diversion. The scene of action be- 
yond Crawley, thirty-two miles from town ; the combatants 
Handall and Turner, the former an Irishman, which wad 
lucky, as it gave me some sort of interest in the contest. 
The thing altogether not so horrid as I expected. Tur- 
ner's face was a good deal de-humanised, but Randall (the 
conqueror) had hardly a scratch. The battle lasted two 
hours and twenty-two minutes : a beautiful sunshine broke 
out at this part of the day ; and had there been a propor- 
tionate mixture of women in the immense rins; formed 



234 BIABY OF lMTAi.99. 

around, it would have been a very brilliant spectacle. Hie 
pigeons let off at different periods of the fight, with ^a- 
patches, yerj picturesque ; at the close, as many as half a 
dozen took wing. It seems tfaej are always sure mes- 
sengers, unless they happen to meet with a hawk. Was to 
have dined with Douglas Kinnaird, to meet the Oxfords^ 
and hear the new prima donna, Madame Bellochi, sing in 
the evening ; but did not get home till half-past eight at 
night. Had also been in some degree engaged to the 
Beefsteak Club to meet Brougham and Captain Morris^ 
the old song-writer. This, faoweyer, was out of the ques- 
tion; and as I was told the day before, both by B. and 
Captain M., that they did not intend to go, had no great 
loss of it. Dined by myself, very tired, at the Greorge ; 
heard, while at dinner, *^ an account of the battle, by ex- 
press," crying in the streets. Sent to buy it, and found it 
anticipated victory on the side of Turner. 

5th. Breakfasted with Power, in order to walk to 
Hornsey and pay my usual visit for Bessy at the grave of 
our dear Barbara. Woolriche, whom I had seen but the 
day before, came and walked with us. The Sunday papers 
all placarded with ** true," and " genuine," and " best" 
accounts of the battle. On passing through Tottenham- 
court Boad, we saw an immense eongr^ation of black- 
guards at the entrance of a passe^e called Cock Court. 
Asked what was the matter ? ^* Bandall lives here, sir.'' 
It was the conqueror's lev^. BecoUected the anecdote 
Davies told me of Caleb Baldwin and some other fellow 
when they saw Berkeley Craven in his court dress : ** My 
eyes, what's Berkeley going to Court for?" — ** Vy, I 
suppose he's going to be presented on Gully's late 
victory." I ought to pay these visits to my dear child 
alone, for the melancholy which came over me when I dtd 



Dec 1818.J THOMAS MOORE. 235 

go alone wae, I think, useful to me; such melancholy 
purifies the heart. Found the grave neat and undis- 
turbed. Dined at Power's, to meet Bishop the composer, 
who is one of the very few men of musical genius Eng- 
land can boast of at present. Talked much of the art. He 
has long been preparing a ^' Treatise on the Effect of Instru- 
ments." Mentioned Charron's ^' Dictionary of Musicians^" 
which I must see. The cnmission of the 7th and 4th, he 
says, is the characteristic of natural music ; has often 
found, when he has been wandering wildly through the 
mountains of Wales, and has sung away without thinking 
what he sung, that he has invariably detected himself 
omitting the 7th and 4th. Went in the evening to T^art's, 
where I id€l$ to have dined. Dan<ung of a Sunday night ; 
Catholics don't mind this. Danced a country-dance with 
Mrs. Shiel, the wife of the dramatist. They then took to 
quadrilles and I took to my heels, glad to get to bed before 
twelve o'clock. 

6th. Break£Eusted at Bogers's. Told me of Crabbe's 
negotiaticm witli Murray for his new volume of ^^ Tales," 
consisting of near 12,000 lines. Murray offered him for 
this and the copyright of the paat volumes 3000^ Crabbe 
was at breakfast with us, and seemed to think this was a 
goodbargain; and bo, I confess, did I ; but Bogers thought 
this sum should be given for the new volume alone, and 
that the Longmans ought to be tried. Called on my 
[ffoctor, who said there had been no motion against me 
this sitting, and to-morrow would be the last day of it. 
Went to Longman's ; settled s(»ne more of business ; from 
thence to WiUde^ who produced me two large bags of 
Sheridan's papers to examine. Worked at them iot two 
hours ; found some letters of the Regent's, one of which 
seemed to be written when he was drunk. By the by, 



•i 



236 DIART OP [^TAT. 39. 

much talk in town about " Brummers Memoirs." Murray 
told me a day or two ago, that the report was he had 
offered 5000^ for the " Memoirs," but that the Regent had 
sent Brummel 6000/. to suppress them ! Upon Murray's 
saying he really had some idea of going to Calais to treat 
with Brummel, I asked him (Scrope Davies was by) what 
he would give me for a volume in the style of the ** Fudges,** 
on his correspondence and interviews with Brummel ? 
'^ A thousand guineas,*' he said, *^ this instant." But I 
rather think I should be tempted to quiz Master Murray, 
in such a work, a little more than he would like. Left 
Wilkie at five to dine with the Longmans. Went in the 
evening with Rees to the Olympic theatre ; dull work 
enough. The entertainments at these places look so 
tempting on the bills, ** at cum intraverisy Dii Detsque quam 
nihily in medio invenies^^ (Pliny). 

7th. Breakfasted at Lady Donegal's. She had had 
another of her cruel nervous attacks on Saturday last, but 
was now better ; and most happy I was to hear her say 
that my coming amused her, and did her good. Kind, 
excellent woman ! wliat would I not do to give her the 
health and happiness she so well deserves. Called on Mrs. 
Douglas, to take her to see Shee's pictures. Glad to see 
she is in a fair way to give the old admiral an heir. From 
thence to Murray's, whence I was called for by Tegart, to 
take me to the Royal Institution, as I wished to consult 
the eighth volume of Gronovius. Found the treatise on 
" Sports and Gymnastics" by Peter Faber, which I wanted 
to see ; made some extracts from it. Called upon Rogers 
at half-past four, when I found that Lord Holland had 
written to the Longmans to meet him there on Crabbe's 
business. At five Rees came, and I left them to their 
deliberations. Went to dine with Wilkie, in order to 



Dec. 1818.] THOMAS MOOBE. 237 

occupy the evening in looking over Sheridan's papers: 
after dinner had the bags in; got through but one of 
them. Went to Rees at nine o'clock. Told me the parti- 
culars of the conference at Rogers's ; said he had prefaced 
the offer he had made^ by telling them they must not 
expect anything like what would be given for a work- of 
mine — r (wonder how Lord Holland liked this, as Crabbe's 
"I his great favourite); and for the new work and the old 
had only offered 1000/. A great falling off this Trom 
Murray's offer. So I told him ; but he said, that from an 
inquiry into the past sale of Crabbe's works, it was the 
most they thought it prudent to give. Went with Rees 
to Covent Garden ; saw part of the " Barber of Seville. " 
8tL Breakfasted with Power, and revised the letter- 
press of some of the numbers of the " Melodies," as he is 
about to stereotype the whole work. From thence to 
Longman's, where I received a bond to " Miss Anastasia 
Mary Moore " for 515/. The dear mother will be so glad 
to get this. Paddled back through the swimming streets 
to Rogers, who had fixed two for me to caU. Found him 
in consternation about Crabbe, who had written to Mur- 
ray immediately after the interview with Rees, to say 
he would accept his offer, but had not heard from him 
since. Rogers proposed we should go together to Murray 
as he wanted to speak to him about his own poem, which 
he thinks of publishing with him in shares. Went to 
Murray ; and, after Rogers had talked to him about his own 
poem, and told Murray that he was printing it himself, to 
see how it looked, he said carelessly, ** I am glad to find, 
Mr. Murray, that you have settled with Mr. Crabbe for 
his new work." This clinched the business. Murray an- 
swered very cheerfully that he had ; so off we set to poor 
Crabbe (who was moping dismally at home, and had. 



1 



238 DIABT OF [JETAT,39. 

nearly giyen up all hope of his thousands )5 to tell him the 
news, which of coarse set his mind perfectly at ease. 
Called npoQ Carpenter, paid him the two hundred pounds, 
and got his receipt in f ulL Told me he had some notions 
of retiring firom bunness, but that he should do one dash- 
ing thing before he gave in ; and that was to publii^ a 
splendid edition of my ^* Anacreon^" with woodcuts. Paid 
some little bills ; dined at the York alone ; packed up 
in the evening, as I was to be in the coach for home at 
seyen next morning, and went to bed early* 

9tlu Came down in the coach (the York House) with 
two or three women. Arrived at Calne a little afiter 
seven, and at home before nine. Found all well, my sweet 
Bessy looking better than I have seen her for a long time. 
Had a nice supper for me, which I did justice to. 

lOth* Resting, reading, and rambling. Wrote to Lord 
Lansdowne to say we thoi^ht of christening the little 
fellow on Saturday; but if he had the least wish to escape 
the operation, I coidd eamly get a vic^ to act for him, or I 
would assume that honour myself, and {urn the parish derk 
into Dr. Parr. He wrote, however, a kind letter back, 
saying, if Lord Carnarvon left him in time he would 
certainly come. 

11th. Becollected some thii^s which I have not put 
down among the memoranda of my town visit. Scrope 
Davies told me that Sir Francis Burdett of^en says the 
two days I passed at Bamsbury in going up to Lond<m 
were among the pleasantest of his life. Sogers, on the 
last morning I was with him in town, took out of a little 
cabinet the draft I had given him a week before, and said, 
** WhatamI todowith this?" I laughed and said, ** Pre- 
sent it for payment, to be sure, my dear Rogers.*' ♦* Well," 
he answered, *' if it is any convenience to you in your 



'\ 



I>EC.18I8.] THOMAS MOOBE. 239 

Bermuda business, to enable you to aSege that you have no 
means, I will keep it for you.** 

12tL Lord Lansdowne arrived about half past one^ 
and we all went to church ; he and I walked ; and Bessj^ 
the nurse, and little one went in a chaise. After the 
ceremony he gave Bessy a paper, which contained, he said, 
a present for the nurse. He left us ; and we drove to call 
on Mr. Phipps. The paper contained two five pound 
notes, one of which Bessy gave to the nurse, and reserved 
the other as a present for her mother. They have latterly 
been very considerate, indeed, in their applications for as- 
Eostance to me. In the evening read out the ^^ Englishman 
in Paris" to Bessy ; wretchedly dull. 

13th. Received a letter from a gentleman in Scotland, 
signed J. Aicken, telling me he is the centre of a little 
drcle of admirers of mine, who all feel interested about 
me as a man not less than as a poet, and entreating I 
would tell them the ages, names, &c. of my children, as 
they had seen by the papers lately that I had just had a 
fourth child. The letter is intelligently and feelingly 
written. He also begs for one of the Sacred Songs, *^ The 
Turf shall be," in my own handwriting. When I was in 
town! received a letter from a person equally unknown to 
me, but who says we were introduced to each other fifteen 
years ago, — a Mrs. Atherston. This lady must be a little 
mad. " I have known," says she, " two giants in my time, 
the giant of body and the giant of intellect. When quite 
a child I knew O'Brien and loved him ; I saw you too,^ &c. 
It is strange how people can summon up all this interest, 
and take all this trouble, about one who is a perfect stran- 
ger to them ; at least, to most of those who thus address 
me, I am only known by my writings. Looked over a 
curious collection of old slang books I brought with me 



. I 



240 DIAlir OF [iETAT.39 

from Longman's. The '^ English K(^e " must be scarce, 
as the four small volumes are priced six guineas, — coarse 
and dull ; De Foe's ** Moll Flanders," which I confess I 
cannot read through, though it is by De Foe. 

14tL Began another flash epistle, and wrote twenty 
I lines. Read " Boxiana," to store my memory with the 
cant phrases. Went on with the " Englishman in Paris " 
in the evening. 

15 th. Twenty lines more. Received a letter from 

Mrs. W , another of my unknown ladies, who has twice 

before sent me poetical and musical compositions of her 
daughter, a girl of fourteen. This contains a poem on the 
birth of my son. 

17 th. Twenty lines more. This sort of stuff goes 
glibly from the pen. I sometimes ask myself why I write 
it y and the only answer I get is, that I flatter myself it 
serves the cause of politics which I espouse, and that, at 
all events, it brings a little money without much trouble. 

18th. Read King's " Anecdotes of his own Times,** 
just published by Murray. Some amusing things about 
Pope, Addison, &c, ; and his character of the Pretender, 
as coming from such a Jacobite, curious. There is men- 
tion here of a poem by Eang, -called the " Toast," wMch I 
do not find in Chalmers. He says that Swift declared to 
a lady, if he had read the Toast when he was twenty years 
of age, he would never have written a satire. 

19 th. Walked over to Bowood. Conversation with 
Lord Lansdowne. Mentioned the affairs of Spain : thinks 
the rumour of insurrection there true : says our Ministers 
are much agitated at present by various matters: the 
Bank question assumes a very serious aspect; and that 
upon other points there seems to be much difference be- 
tween them. Talked of " King's Anecdotes." King had 



H 



I>£C. 1818.] THOMAS MOOBE. 241 

evidently got rid of much of his Jacobitism when he wrote 
this book* Lord L.'s father had heard King deliver some 
of his Katcliife orations ; and whenever the word redeat 
(which came more than once) occurred^ King would pause^ 
and^ though the passage had no reference to anything con- 
nected with politics, this word, and King's significant 
pause upon it, were a signal for the Jacobite part of his 
audience to applaud. One of the passages was redeat 
A8tr<Ba Virgo. Was reading Fearon's book upon America ; 
recommended it as the most acute work upon the subject 
he had seen. Lady Andover (I believe) in the house, 
with Charles Fox, Captain Fielding, and Miss Calcraft, 
the friend of the Bowleses. Lady Lansdowne proposed 
to accompany me, together with Miss C, as far as Sandy 
Liane, where she was going to look at a cottage they 
were building. Very agreeable in our walk, and pressed 
me much to name a day to dine at Bowood. I did not. 
Bead to Bessy in the evening the Scotch novel, " The 
Heart of Mid-Lothian,'* which we have just received from 
the Book Society. 

20th. Answered the Scotch gentleman's letter, and 
sent him a copy of the Sacred Song. Beceived a letter 
from Miss Lefanu about her novel, which I have promised 
to recommend to the Longmans for her. The Scotch 
novel in the evening. Our little boy not well: have 
much fear about him: there is a premature meaning in 
his eyes, which (though it may be called old woman's talk 
to say so) is often, I fear, a sign of premature decay. 
Heaven spare him to his fond mother I 

21st. Bead some of Phillips's ^' BecoUections of Cur- 
ran," which Lord L. sent me, and which he said was even 
worse than he expected from the pen of the orator. It is 

VOL. II. B 



242 DIABT OF [£tat.39. 

oertainlj in wretched taste ; but to everyone who knew 
Ctirran there are some things in it interesting. 

22nd. Walked into Devizes, to inquire for a wet-nurse 
for my little boy, who seems as if he wanted a reinforce- 
ment of his nature, and I wish I had insisted upon his 

having it from the first. B^ged of to look out one 

for me. Bessy thinks of giving a little dance next week^ 
and as the idea seems to amuse her, she shall do. it : the 
dear girl so seldom leaves her home, that she deserves every 
enlivenment of which that sphere is capable. Bead 8<»ne of 
Fearon^s " Sketches of American Life," and like it much. 
Was amused by his quoting not only gravely, but with 
some degree of respect, my boyish opinions about America: 
^^ Moore's melancholy condumon I ^ Fearon is the most 
acute and matterrof-fact critic the Yankees have had to 
encounter yet, and heartily angry they will be with him 
'^ I guess." 

23rd. Beceived from one of my female correspondents 
(the lady who loved the Irish giant) a Christmas present/ 
consisting of a goose, a pot of pickles, another of clouted 
cream, and some apples. This, indeed, is a tribute of ad- 
miration more solid than I generally receive &om these 
fair admirers of my poetry. The young Bristol lady, who 
inclosed me three pounds after reading " Lalla Bookh," 
had also very laudable ideas on the subject ; and if every 
reader of " Lalla Rookh" had done the same, I need never 
have written again. Bead the " Heart of Mid-Lothian " 
to Bessy in the evening. Have got a wet-nurse for little 
Tommy, a woman in the neighbourhood, to come three 
times a day, which is better than nothing. Poor little 
thing ! with a mother that can give him no milk, and a 
father that can give him no money, what business has he in 
this world ? Bowles had called in the morning ; and was 



Dec. 1818.] THOMAS MOOUE. 243 

most amusing about his purchase of a great coat once in 
Monmouth Street^ which while in the shop he todc for 
blue^ but which on his appearance in the sunshine he found 
to be a glaring glossy green. His being met in this coat 
by a great church dignitary, &c. &c. 

24th. Worked at my Flash Memorial. Keceived a 
parcel of Sheridan's papers from Wilkie. Nothing more 
decisive known about the intentions of the creditors. 

IKned at 's ; noisy and dull, with the exception of 

Bowles, who, when the rapid chatterers would let him, was 
highly amusing. 

25th. Keceived a note from Lord Lansdowne, saying 
they had expected I would fix a day in this week to dine 
there, and asking me for Wednesday next. A parcel of 
books from Longman's, which I wanted to consult for the 
learned part of vaj flash work : " Dio. Chrysostomus " (for 
the oration on Melancomus, the famous pugilist); Themis- 
tius, in which I have found nothing but a reference to 
** Dio. Chrysostom.;" and ^* Cyprian," who has supplied only 
one sentence, ikoi worth the carriage. Our servants had 
company to dinner in honour of the day, and kept it up 
merrily, singing choruses till past eleven. Li the evening 
read to Bessy a MS. opera by Miss Co'stello, a protegee of 
Bowles's, taken from a story he suggested to her, and about 
which he is very sanguine. 

26th. Went with Macdonald to dine at Bowles's: 
the company, Henry Joy and his father. Miss Caleraft, 
Miss Joy, and little Miss Miles. The whole day 
rather pleasant; sung with Miss Miles in the evening; 
lost our way in coming home, and got down the steep 
road into Chittoway ; were obliged to stand shivering in 
the cold while the carriage went to a turning place ; near 

B 2 



244 DIARY OP [^TAT. 39. 

one when I got home, and found dearest Bessy sitting up 

forme. 

27th. Wrote twelve or fourteen Knes of my Flash. 

Sent to Sir Scrope Bernard & Co. a draft for 140A on 

account of John Atkinson, of Dublin. Mrs. Phipps dined 

with us. Bead to her and Bessy in the evening, Mrs. 

Inchbald^s comedy of " Such Things are." 

28th. Beceived another parcel of Sheridan's papers 
fr om 'W ilkie ; have not opened it ; do not like to lose any 
more time with tlus work, till there is some prospect of 
our being able to publish. Wrote some more of the Flash. 

29th. Walked with Mr. Hughes to Bowood, he having 
requested me to give him convoy on his first visit ; deli- 
cious day ; Lord L. not at home. Finished the second 
volume of the Scotch novel in the evening. 

30th. Bouted out of my study by the preparations for 
the dance to-morrow night, and not able to get into my 
other study, the garden, on accoimt of the damp, foggy 
weather. Copied out some music At a quarter to six^ 
Macdonald called upon me to go to dinner at Bowood ; 
obliged to feel our way, not very safely, through the fog. 
Company at dinner : Lemon and Lady Charlotte (Lady 
L.'s sister), Dickinson, an M. P. ; Abercrombie, Macdo- 
nald's brother. Sir James Mackintosh, and Charles Fox. 
Sat between Mackintosh and Lord L. Talked of Fearon^ 
and Birkbeck. The singularity of two such men being pro- 
duced out of the middling class of society at the same 
time ; proof of the intelligence now spread through that 
rank of Englishmen. It must make those in the higher 
regions look about them and be on the alert ; every man 

now feels that kind of warning from the man immediately 
beneath him, and the stimulus is propagated. What it 
will come to God knows. What Curran said when a8k;ed 



Dec, 1818.] THOMAS MOORE. 245 

what there was domg in the House of Lords ? " Only 
Lord Moira^ airing his vocabulary :** better than any- 
thing P. has told of him. Grattan delightful; ^' so much 
(Mackintosh said) to admire^ so much to love in him^ so 
much to laugh at^ so wise, so odd, so good." Sir J. 
Mackintosh told of '* Barry Closed the well known East 
Indian officer, that not having learned anything pre- 
vious to his going to India, he got everything he knew 
through the medium of Persian Uterature ; studied logic 
in a translation (from Arabic into Persian) of Aristotle ; 
and was a most learned and troublesome practician, as well 
as theorist, in dialectics. Some one brought him a volume 
of Lord Bacon (of whom he had never heard) and said, 
'^ Here is a man who has attacked your friend, Aristotle, 
tooth and naiL" " Who can the impudent fellow be ? " 
said Close. "Lord Bacon." "Who the devil is he? 
What trash people do pubUsh in these times I? After readr 
ing him, however, he confessed that Lord Bacon had said 
some devilish sensible things. Music in the evening ; all 
but Mackintosh and the elder Macdonald attentive. They 
talked the whole time : I did not mind Macdonald ; but I 
was sorry for Mackintosh. I said, when I got up from 
49inging, " I see those two gentlemen like to talk to accom- 
paniment," which brought the rest of the company upon 
them, and they were put to the blush. Mackintosh soon 
atoned by the agreeableness of his conversation, and I 
was too selfish to follow the example of his not listening* 
Mackintosh quoted two lines from Dryden's " Cymon 
and Iphigenia " as perfection : 

^ Love first taught Shame ; and Shame, with Love at strife, 
Taught all the sweet ciyilities of life." 

a 3 



246 DIARY OP [iETAT-Sa 

Lord L. and I agreed that it required rather too much 
thought to perceive its beautj^ but that when once we 
arrive at all the refinement of the idea, it is exquisite 
indeed. He also quoted the first six lines of the '' Intro- 
duction to the Tales'* as particularlj happj and eloquent. 
He then introduced a criticism (which I had heard him 
show off before) on Dryden's translation of the (^ning 
lines of ** jSSneid ** as being pardcolarl j faulty. ** Haughty 
Juno's unrelenting hate^" not in the original^ and weaken- 
ing the effect of the fatality which was supposed to impel 
him. To ^' expelled and exil'd," a similar objection^ the 
important point ** Italiam" left out. The force of /ato 
prqfuffus not at all done justice to. Lord L. mentioned 
a passage in Floras, where the word prqfuffus was Tery 
strangely used. I forget it; but it describes one of the 
Boman generals as profiigus for the sake of seeking 
out an enemy to Rome. Dr. Paley at Cambridge (Q. E. E.) 
called the word profugus (the consequence of his northern 
education), and the following line was written on the 
occasion, — " Errat Virgilius, forte profugus erat." I men- 
tioned Dryden*s ** Juvenal," and repeated his and Gifford's 
translation of the line. ** Quanta prcestaniius essetP in the 
third satire, to show how much more sweetly Dryden has 
done them. Gifibrd's is (if I recollect right) thus — 

" Njmpb of the spring t more graced thj haunts had been, 
More honoured, if an edge of tiring green 
Thj bubbling fount had circumscribed alone, 
And marble ne'er profaned the native stone." 

Dryden has done it thus — 

" How much more beauteous had the fountain been, 
Embellished with its first created green, 
Where crystal streams through liying turf had ma, 
Centered with an urn of native stone." 

GifFord's last line substituted here for Dryden's would 



. 1818.] THOMAS MOORE. 247 

make this perfect. I mentioned Lord HoUand^s imitation 

of poor Murat^ the King of Naples, talking of Viigil, 

** Ah Virgile, qu*il est beau ! C'est mon rdole ; que e'est 

sublime 9a, — Tityre tu patulce recubans^^ &c. &c- Lord 

li. mentioned a translation of Groldsmith's " Deserted 

Village'' by a foreigner, whom I remember in London, 

called the Commandeur de TiUy, and the line, ^^ As ocean 

sweeps the labour'd mole away," was done " Conune la 

mer detruit les travaux de la taupe." I told an anecdote 

mentioned to me by Lord Moira, of a foreign teacher of 

either music or drawing at Lady Perth's in Scotland. 

As he was walking round the terrace with Lord M., the 

latter said, ** VoiU le Chateau de Macbeth." " Maccabfe, 

milor," said the artist. " Je erois que c'est Macbeth,!' 

modestly answered Lord M. ** Pardon, milor, nous le 

pronon9ons Maccab^e sur le Continent ; Judas Maccabeus, 

[Empereur SomainI" Talked of the egotism of foreign 

writers. The Abb€ de Pradt begins one of his books 

** Un seul honune a sauve I'Europe ; c'est moi." The best 

of it is, he read this in a company where the Duke of 

Wellington was ; and, on the Abb^ making a pause at the 

word " TEurope," all eyes were turned to the Duke ; but 

then came out, to their no small astonishment ^ C'est, 

moi ! " Lady Lansdowne very kind and amiable ; could 

not help being charmed with her; and my neighbour, 

M., so' delighted — (me third with the wcwnan, and two 

thirds (bdng a Scotchman) with the Marchioness, that he 

asked my advice whether he should not make her a present 

of his beautiful table of Amboyna wood. Told him, if he 

was not afraid of the awkward probability of her refusing 

to accept it, I thought he had better. Came home safe 

through the fog. 

» 4 



248 DIARY OF [iE:rAT.39. 

31 si. All bustle and preparation for our dance in the 
evening; the supper laid in my study. Poor Bessy on 
her legs all day, to get everything as nice as possible ; my 
chief occupation^ besides drawing the wine^ to keep little 
Tom quiet. All went off most gaily. We did our best 
to make them happy ; and^ to do our guests justice, they 
seemed all to come with a determination to be pleased. 
Supped at half-past twelve. I had lobsters^ oysters^ and 
champagne, express from London for the occasion^ and the 
supper looked not only gay but elegant. Twenty-two 
persons supped in my little study. I sung for them after 
supper, and then to dancing again till near four in the 
morning. Poor Bessy's eyes, which have been sore for 
some days, dreadfully inflamed and red through the whole 
evening. A gay beginning to the new year. Heaven 
send it may so go on, and that thus 

" Our days and nights, with all their hours, 
Majr dance awaj with down upon their feet ! ** 

January 1st, 1819. Weary, and resting after last 
night's gaieties. Visitors in the morning. Bead to Bessy 
the Scotch novel in the evening. Have got through half 
of Gifford's " Memoirs of Ben Jonson." What a " can- 
ker'd carle" it is ! Strange that a man should be able to 
lash himself up into such a spiteful fury, not only against 
the living but the dead, with whom he engages in a sort of 
scivmachy in every page. Poor dull and dead Malone is 
the shadow at which he thrusts in his ^^ Jonson," as he 
did at poor Monck Mason, still duller and deader in his 
'J *^ Massinger." 

2nd. Wrote a little and read a little. In the evening, 
the Scotch novel to Bessy, whose eyes were much better. 

3rd. Received from the Longmans the list of poems 
they mean to put into the ^* Selection from the English 




Jak. 1819.] THOMAS MOOBK. 

Poets," which they are about to publish, be] 
omit or insert as I think proper. ,^> 

4th. Finished the " Heart of Mid-Lothian"' 
In the evening; a most extravagant and, incredible story, 
but full of striking situations and picturesque sketches ; 
the winding-up disagreeable and unsatisfactory. 

5th. Looked over the list for the Longmans, and added 
some. Foimd they had omitted from Prior's that pretty 
thing, " Dear Chloe, how blubbered," and " The merchant, 
to conceal his treasure." Dined at Locke's. A very 
handsome dinner, but deadly dull company ; and but for 
the sparkle of Mrs. Methuen's fine eyes across the table, I 
should have gone asleep. To the Devizes ball in the even- 
ing : Lady Frances W. there ; introduced to her, and had 
much conversation, chiefly about our friend Lord B. Seve- 
ral of those beautiful things, published (if I remember 
right) with " The Bride," were addressed to her. She 
must have been very pretty when she had more of the 
freshness of youth, though she is still but five or six and 
twenty; but she looks faded already. She told me she 
Had an Album which was begun and nearly half written 
through by Lord B. (the first thing in it, " When from the 
brow, where sorrow sits") ; and she had another, which was 
as yet blank, and which she had resolved to keep blank 
'^ till an introduction to Mr. M. should enable her to ask 
him to begin it for her." I fought this off as well as I 
could ; said I must know her better before I could have 
the t6te montee sufficiently for such an undertaking, &c. 
Danced the second set with Mrs. Methuen. 

6 th. Lay in bed till late, and wrote some of ** Tom 
Cribb's Memorial." Walked out for two hours; the most 
divine day (the season considered) that ever I felt or saw. 
In the evening looked over Longmans' list. They had 



250 BIABT OF |_Jb:tat.39. 

left oaty Btnnge to aay, from Wnrton's sonnets, some of the 
best in the language ; that *' To the river Lodden," ex- 
quisite. Out cl CoUins's, too^ ihey had omitted hia deli- 
cions ode npon ThiHnson's death ; what music it is ! 

** Rememhraiice oft shall haimt the shores 

When Thames in suminer wrcttths is drest, 
And oft suspend the dashing oar. 
To bid thy gentle spirit rest.** 

To those from Cowper I added one, which I had myself 
forgot, but which is touching beyond anything : 

** O happj shades, to me unblest, 

Friendljr to peace, but not to me I 
How ill the aoene that ofiers rest, 

And heart that cannot rest, agree ! 
This glassj stream, that spreading pine, 

Those alders quivering to the breeze, 
Mig^t soothe a soul less hurt than mine^ 

And please, if anything could please,** &c. &c. 

7th. Was to have dined with Maodonald : despeiatc 
day; sent an apdogy. Wrote some lines, and began 
Mackenae's " Man of Feeling" to Bessy in the evening. 

8 th. Beceived the ^ Cheltenham Chronide" with an 
article in it on my '' poetical character'' — very laudatcnry. 
Jay called upon me at half-past three in his gig^to take me 
to dinner at Ins father's, Hartham Park. Ccnnpany at 
dinner: the Hawkins; Lady Frances W. was to have 
come with them, but, to my somewhat disappointment, 
she had been called away to London the day before ; the 
Dickensons, Mr. Johnson, who travelled with the Prince 
of Orange, and Mr. Longlands, an usher of Westminster. 
The latter told me that the late Dr. Yineent had intro- 
duced a wrong mood into the epitaph he wrote for himself, 
** In moribuB," fro. &c., ** qualis fuit lapis s^ulchralis 
taceat." Nares suggested the alteration o( fuit into *^ fu- 
erit,** which was, of course, adopted. I mentioned that I 



-i 



-/ 



Jan. 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 251 

believed Tlncent was the name of the head master of 
Westminster^ and that it was said of hun, ^'he had been 
killed by false Latin.'' '^ I am drinking the Bath waters 
for it now," said Mr. L. We then spoke of Sir Bobert 
Walpole; that himself and George L had governed Eng- 
land by bad Latin ; for as Sir B. could not speak French 
nor George English, they were obliged to confer in Latin. 
A good thing of Madame De Stael's about the Duke of 
Wellington, that ^^ there never was so great a man made 
out of such small materials." Mr. Joy mentioned that 
Woodfall (I suppose, of the ** Chronicle") told him that he 
was in the House the first night that Sheridan spoke ^ and 
that, after the speech, S. came up to the gallery to him and 
asked him with much anxiety what he thought of his 
success. Woodfall answered, "I think this is not your 
line ; no, Sheridan ; you had better stick to those pursuits 
you are so much more fitted for." Upon which S., after 
leaning his forehead upon his hand for a few seconds, ex- 
claimed, ** It is in me, and, by God, it shall come out/' Re- 
minded of a good thing said, I believe, by Kelly, the Irish 
barrister (my godfather, by the bye), on some man, whose 
children bore not the most respectable characters, asking 
Tiim one day, ** Have you heard of my son's robbery ?" 
" No," said Kelly ; " who did he rob ? " On my mentioning 
the story of Sheridan stealing a joke from Delpini, Mr. L. 
said it was certainly an infringement upon the " Opera in 
nsum Delpini." Slept at Joy's. 

9th. Hazlitt's ** Lecture on Sheridan" (quoted in the 
** Chronicle " of this morning, and containing a warm eu- 
logium on me) led us to talk of humour, Babelais, &c. I 
mentioned the speeches of Lord Baise-cul in Babelais, as 
rather Lord Castlereagh's style of eloquence. A good 
thing of Home Tooke, when a certain raffish gentleman 



252 DIAKT OP [^TJIT.39.. 

8iud to him Bnecringly at the hustings^ ^^ Well^ Mr. Tooke, 
you have all the blackguards with you this morning ;" " I 
am delighted to hear it^ sir, — and from such exceUent 
authority too." Joy drove me home ; rather boring me on 
the way about a Greek epigram by some friend of his, on 
the Apollo Belvedere, which he (Joy) had translated into 
Latin and English. Finished the '* Man of Feeling " to 
Bessy in the evening. There are few duller books, I 
think ; how could it have got such reputation ? The 
pinching the lapdog's ear ^' in the bitterness of his heart" 
is almost the only good thing in it. Bread afterwards 
" Pickering's American Vocabulary." They sometimes, I 
see, use the word captivate thus : ^' Five or six ships 
captivated," " His whole army captivated." The word 
balance, too, has been brought by their commercial habits 
into strange employ : " I spent the greater part of the 
evening with such a friend, and the balance of it with 
another : " " I expect Alexander of Macedon was a very 
great man." 

10th. Had written a day or two ago to the Longmans, 
to say I felt rather faint-hearted about the Flash volume, 
and that, as it might be thought too low a thing for such 
great booksellers and poets as we are, they had better 
perhaps employ some understrapper in the Bow to publish 
it for them, as Carpenter did at first with the ** Twopenny 
Post Bag." Beceived an answer from them to-day, saying, 
that as they were sure there would be nothing in it that 
would put them in Newgate, they would themselves be 
the publishers, and announce it by the title I should send 
this next week. 

11th. Beceived from Power the 2nd number of the 
** Quarterly Musical Beview," in which there are two 
articles, most warmly laudatory, on my " National Melo- 



Jan. 1819.] THOMAS MOOBE. 253 

dies" and seventh number of the '^ Irish." They pro- 
nounce the latter better than any of the former ones. 
Hunt, in last Sunday's "Examiner," said it was not so 
good. A remark in one of the articles struck me with a 
sort of chilling consciousness, — **We can perceive the 
coming on of age in the calmer fires of the modem Ana- 
creon." Alas I it is but too true ; my eighth lustrum is 
within little more than a year of being completed.* Bead 
some of Murphy's " Know Your own Mind" to Bessy in 
the. evening. 

12th. Had a letter from my father, in answer to one 
in which I begged them not to stint themselves of any 
comforts this Christmas season, as, even if there were some 
little exceedings over the 100/. a-year I give them, I 
would cheerfully endeavour to pay it for them. He says 
in his answer, that they manage to keep within ^their in«- 
come (which, with his half-pay, is about 200/. a-year), but 
that some debts remain still undischarged since his dis- 
missal from the Barracks. These I must relieve him of as 
soon as possible. "Know Your own Mind" to Bessy in 
the evening. 

13th. "Cribb's Memorial" nearly finished. Walked 
four hours ; the day exquisite. Felt bursts of devotion 
while I walked and looked at the glorious world about me ; 
which did me more good than whole volumes of theo- 
logy. Finished " Know Your own Mind" in the evening. 
Churchill was not so vtry far out in saying of Murphy 
that " dulness marked him for a mayor." He was a dull 
man, in spite of his comedies, which act well, but read 
most ponderously. There are, however, two or three 
witty things in this play. Dashwould's speech about the 

* It must be recollected that Mr. Moore always supposed he was 
bom in the year 17S0. 



S54 DIABT OF [ATAT.S9. 

M. P.'b rust in his handkerchief is worthy of Sheridan. 
Ladj Bell an admirable acting part. £ead before I went 
to bed the boxing match in ApoUonius Bho^Uus. 

14th. Began my translation of the s^-to between 
Dares and Entellus^ in the fifth .3£neid. Dryden's ^^ Vir- 
gil^ badly done almost throughout: Pitt's seems &r 
better; at least more generally readable. In looking over 
Dryden's " Cymon," I find Mackintosh generalised what 
Dryden applies only to Cymon; and it was this that 
gave the obscure and abstract air to the lines which are 
properly thus : 

^ Love taught him Shame ; and Shame, wilJi Love at stniby 
Taught him the sweet ciTilities of life.** * 

In the evening read to Bessy Leigh's account of his ad- 
venture with the Arabs in searching for the crocodile 
mummies. There can hardly be imagined a more dfeadAJ 
situation. What will not man risk^ even in pursuit of 
crocodile mummies I 

15th. Went on with my translation. Wrote to Mur- 
ray for some satbfactory decision with respect to the 
Sheridan business. In the evening began « Sir Launeelot 
Greaves" to Bessy. 

16th. Finished the verses from ** Virgil," seventy odd 
lines. 

17th. Collected my notes for the preface of *^ Cribb," 
which is advertised in the paper to-day. Bead the story 
of Ceyx and Halcyone in Ovid; charmingly told. He 
has in general more pathos and fancy than any of ihe 
ancients, though deficient certainly in simplicity and sub- 

* '< Love taught him Shame ; and Shame, with Love at strife, 
Soon taught the sweet civilities of b'fe." 

The lines are thus printed in the edition I consulted : they are beauti- 
ful any way. — Ed. 



-I 



Jan. 1819.] THOKAS MOOBB. 255 

limity. Received ** JBlorence Macarthy;*' and as it is a 
Society book, have susp^ided ^^ Sir Laimcelot Greaves" in 
the evening to read it. 

18tL Walked to Bowood to consult the ^^ M^moires 
de I'Academie" for Baretti's Essay upon the Pugiiate of 
the Ancients ;" read there^ and made extracts for two hours, 
without fire. In the evening went on with ^ Florence 
Macarthy," and afterwards began my preface. A pretty 
poem in the ^^ Chronide" suggested by a note in ** Lalla 
Eookh." 

19tL Bowles called upon me. Wrote a little of the 
preface. Kead some oi ^ Florence Macarthy," in the 
evening, to Bessy ; then worked in my study for an hour 
and a half; and from half-past eight till supper sung and 
played some ballet music to Bessy and Miss Best. A 
review of my poetical character in the " Examiner ;" 
good-naturedly meant, but I had much rather Hunt would 
let me alone. 

20th. A day as mild, fresh, and sunny as if it was the 
beginning of summer. Went with the Macdonalds to 
dine with their brother, the parson of Bishop's Cannings. 
The company, besides ourselves, Bowles, Mr. Mayo and 
Mr. Williams. Story about Dr. Parr, cutting the throat 
of his first wife's picture one day when she irritated him 
very much by destroying his favourite cat. Came home 
at twelve o'clock ; dear Bessy sitting up for me. Bankes's 
^' Civil History of Rome," which I have looked over, but a 
dullish book. Contrived to leave out the point of Sylla's 
fiunons saying to the young man who insulted him after 
his abdication. His accoimt of the constitution of the 
senate very unsatisfactory. Jekyll said the other day to a 
man who professed to like Bankes's book, ^^ I suppose you 
would rather have his Bome (room) than his company.^ 



256 DIABT OF C^TAT.SS. 

2l8t« Wm to have dined at Grosset^ but sent aa 
I excuse. Wrote to Hunt, and gave him a little hint to 
^ I keep hifl theories upon reli^on and moralitj somewhat 
more to himself, as they shock and alienate many of his 
best intentioned readers. 
Y^ ^ 1 22nd. Wrote a good deal of my pref ace to Cribb ; 

such a Rag Fidr of learning as I have made of it I Bessy 
went to Devizes, and did not return till half-past five. A 
little of " Florence Macarthy" in the evening. 

23rd. Read some of Wycherly's '' Plwn Dealer.'' Did 
Burns ever read the following passage ? ^^ I weigh the 
man, not his title ; 'tis not the king's stamp can make the 
metal better or heavier : " In his fine song, " For a' That," 
there is something very like it : 

** The tide's but the guinea's stamp. 
The man's the gold for a* that." 

Wrote some lines and read ** Florence" to Bessy in the 
evening. Expect Power to-morrow from town about the 
deed. 

24th. Power arrived at twelve ; brought me a speci- 
men of lithography by little Croker, my Cork friend; 
very clever, wishes to apply lithography to the printing 
of music, and Power thinks of making the experiment. 
Bishop is the person Power thinks of for arranging my 
music henceforward, and, next to Stevenson (from whom 
I grieve that these wrangles force me to separate), I prefer 
him. Hughes dined with us. 

25th. After breakfast Power and I entered into the 
business of the renewal of our agreement. He at first did 
not seem quite willing to consent to giving the full 500/. 
a-year, but expressed something like a hope that I would 
contribute towards paying the arranger of the music 



Jax. 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 257 

However, on my saying it would be better perhaps to let 
tlie whole matter lie over till some other time, he professed 
himself quite ready to come into my terms. I accordingly 
signed, the draught of a deed he had brought with him 
for a clear 500/., and then told him he might be very sure 
I would not allow it to press heavily upon him ; as, though 
I wished to gain my point of having the round sum of 
500/. (without the deduction of 50/. which he had before 
made for arranging), yet, if he found Bishop's terms for 
undertaking the musical part at all extravagant, I should 
not be backward in giving my former share towards the 
expense. Two or three things he said during our con- 
versation annoyed me a good deal : among other things, 
when I proposed that, if he felt any dislike to a renewal 
of the agreement (which I was not at all anxious for) 
I might remain free, and merely give him the preference 
in the purchase of anything I wrote, he said, ** You 
know, as to that, I might constrain you to give them 
to me, as I have your promise in one of your letters to 
go on to a tenth number of * Irish Melodies' with me." 
This readiness to take advantage of a mere castle-building 
promise made in the confidential carelessness of a letter 
did not look well : however, upon my saying as much, he 
disclaimed all such intention, and said I should never find 
him other than he had been. Dined at two, and a little 
after three he left us to return to town. In the evening, 
for want of the right volume of " Florence," we went 
back to " Sir Launcelot," but found it so dull, so like a 
Christmas pantomime, full of dull tricks, over-sets, duck- 
ings, knock-downs, &c., that I could not get on with it : 
read a little of " Gulliver" instead. Hughes had sent 
me some magazines in the morning. A review of the 
*« Melodies" in the *' Monthly ;" vulgarly written, but 

VOL. II. 8 



] 



258 DIABY OF [iBTAT. 39. 

good-natured enough^ and will be serviceable among the 
country clods^ who read this and such other precious guides 
in taste. A wretched parody on my song, " They may 
/ rail at this Life," in the " European Magazine ;" servile, 
cantingy and Billingsgate, and, worst of all^ dated from 
Ireland. 

26th. Received a letter from my proctor. Toller, to say 
that the King's proctor had been instructed to make a mo- 
tion against me (t. e. to attach me) on Friday next, and 
that I must come up to town immediately to make the 
necessary affidavits : very inconvenient this every way. 

27th« Copied out some things I had marked in the 
« English Rogue," &c., in order to take the books back to 
the Longmans. Dined at half-past two, and at half-past 
three set off ih a chaise for Calne : four coaches and the 
mail to pass through ; had no doubt of a place, but every 
thing seems to conspire against the poor poet's purse ; all 
were full ; what was to be done ? I must be in town next 
day, and I had but five pounds in my pocket, which would 
be far short of the expense of posting ; so I borrowed five 
pounds more of the man at the White Hart, and started 
in my solitary chaise at about eight. Had received a letter 
from my father in the morning, to say that the little debts 
which he must ask me to pay for him amounted to about 407. 

27th. Arrived in town about half-past nine ; drove to 
the New Hummums, and had a warm bath. Went to 
Toller, who told me he thought in one of the cases (the 
** Lydia)" we had rather ** edckened" our adversaries, as they 
had withdrawn their motion against me, and were now 
suing for a monition against the captor's agent. This is 
something ; not to make my affidavits till to-morrow. Went 
taLongmans. The list of their intended collection of poetry 
haslBeen looked over by Mackintosh, who has suggested 



Jaw. 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 259 

many omissions and additions. Showed me a note of Al- 
len's, in which he promises that he will get Lord Holland, 
Rogers, &c. some two or three mornings at breakfast to 
look over the list, and improve the selection. Showed me 
a *^ Pocket Magazine," with another design from " Lalla 
Rookh.'* Asked me to dine to-day. Went to Power's. 
No room for me at my old lodgings in Duke Street ; was 
forced to put up at the Geoi^e, in Coventry Street. 
I>ined in Paternoster Row. Had met Phillips (the mem- 
I ber) and Sydney Smith together in Leicester Square. 
Rees and I went after dinner to the Sanspareil, and from 
thence to the pantomime at Covent Grarden (Harlequin 
Munchausen), with which I was much amused. 

28th. Went to breakfast with Rogers, who is in the 
very agonies of parturition : showed me the work ready 
printed and in boards, but he is still making alterations : 
told me that Lord Byron's ** Don Juan " is pronounced by 
Hobhouse and others as unfit for publication. Luttrell is 
publishing a poem in praise of Ampthill and Lord Holland 
anonymously : we agreed the serious and heroic was not 
Luttrell*s forte, and that he ought to stick to the eight 
syllable form. R. says, howeverj this is far better than I 
could have supposed. Crabbe's delight at having tliree thou- 
sand poimds in his pocket R. offered to take care of the 
bills for him, but no, he must take them down to show 
them to his son John. "Would not copies do ? " " No, 
must show son John the actual notes." Went to Lady 
Donegal's: she has been again ill, but now somewhat 
recovered: never see these two admirable sisters, but to 
like them better and better. Went from them to Lord 
Lansdowne — kind, excellent man : spoke with much feel- 
ing of the loss they had had in Lady Ilchester, who 
aeems to have gone off something like the Princess Char- 

s 2 



-■i 



260 VlAJtr OF [iETAT.89, 

lotte. Lady L. has been very ill in consequence of the 
shock. Talked of Sir B. Wilson's failure in his parliament- 
ary debut; and said the representative of the commercial 
talent of the country (meaning Waithman) had been just 
as promising in his commencement as he of the military 
had been unfortunate. Wilson has no judgment Lord 
L. goes to the Covent Garden Fund Dinner to-morroTV : 
believe I shall go : asked me to dine to-day to meet Whishaw 
and the two young Bomillys^ but I had promised to dine 
tfte^'tete with Rogers. Called upon Shee the painter, 
who told me that Lord Holland was so much pleased with 
his picture of me (a copy from that which Richard Power 
bought, and not at all so good), that he said he must have 
it : " Must have my friend Moore's picture." " This shows 
(said Shee) how you stand in that house," and it is cer- 
tainly flattering. Went to Murray. Rogers had told me 
that Murray said he would himself, whether Wilkie came 
into it or not, run all risks in publishing my " Life of 
Sheridan," and give me a thousand pounds for it. I now 
found this was the case. Talked of ^^ Don Juan :" but too 
true that it is not fit for publication : he seems, by living 
so long out of London, to have forgotten that standard of 
decorum in society to which every one must refer his 
words at least, who hopes to be either listened to or read 
by the world. It is all about hiipself and Lady B., and 
raking up the whole transaction in a way the world would 
never bear. Went to Toller : the affidavits are in Dr. 
Lushington's hands to be considered. Met Lushington 
afterwards ; a good fellow, I believe, as well as a clever 
one, and was once a gay fellow. Curious enough to see my 
old friend Caliban (he went in that character with me once 
to a masquerade) turned into the grave and serious Doctor 
of Civil Law. Dined with Rogers : he had cancelled his 



Jan. 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 261 

note about Lord Ossory at Lord Holland's suggestion : it 
alluded to Lord Ossory's habit of transacting his magis- 
terial business out of doors, which procured for him the 
name of Lord Chief Justice in Eyre (Air). Lord H. did 
not wish this joke to remain. In the evening I went to 
the Opera, Perry having given me a ticket in the morning. 
By the by, he told me too that Sir P. Francis's " Histo- 
rical Memoir"' cannot be found, and that it is supposed 
Lady F., who is not on good terms with the son, has con- 
cealed it. The opera, one of Bossini's; the new prima 
donna, Madlle. Bellochi : they say she sings well, but, until 
I get over the shock of her ugliness, cannot judge. The 
music clever, but rarely pretty, and full of mounte- 
bankism. 

29th. Breakfasted with the Donegals; called after- 
wards upon Rogers, and from thence to Lord Holland's in 

J St- James's Square ; found Lord and Lady H. and ,^JH^ 
at home, just down* to breakfast, though near two o'clock ; 
made many kind inquiries about my Bermuda business; 
spoke of the article in the new number of the " Edinburgh 
Review" on Universal SuflBrage, which is by Mackintosh. 
Lady H. spoke of poor Perryj bad state of health, 
and of the loss he would be to the political world. Told 
her I must^be back to the country next morning ; pressed 
me to stay for the purpose of dining with them, and I said, 
if possible, most happy. Went to Toller, and signed ihe 
affidavits ; called at Longmans, and then home to dress for 
the Covent Garden dinner. The Duke of Sussex came 

''I out of the circle upon seeing me, and most cordially giving 
me both his hands, walked me into a comer to converse 
with me. This ought to be flattering from royal persons, 
but, somehow, our precious Princes contrive that it should 
not be so. The D. of S. is, however, as far as society 

s 3 



-I 



262 BIAKY OF [JEiAT.39, 

goes^ a perfectly good-natured and unaffected person. I 
told him of my Bermuda misfortune^ which he expressed 
much interest about. I said, ^^ This promises to be a plea- 
sant dinner, sir." " Ah but," he answered, " what a glorious 
dinner we shall have on Wednesday next!" alluding to the 
great Opposition dinner, with Tiemey in the chair. He 
asked, " Am't you working for us now ? '' I said, *^ No.'* 
** Ay, but Tm sure you are." He alluded, I rather 
think, to the announcement of ^' Cribb," which some suspect 
to be mine, though neither Bogers nor the Donegab hare 
said a word about it. Lady Holland asked me directly 
whether it was by me, and I answered, ** No." Quin, the 
charity man, mentioned that a paragraph in our papers 
lately, giving an account of some strangers being hustled 
at the Stock Exchange, and a row taking place in conse- 
quence, was translated into the French papers thus — 
*^Mons. Stock Exchange etoit echauffe," &c.; told me 
that they are getting up a translation of " Lalla Rookh" at 
Paris : it is done by one of the Amauds, who knows but 
little English, and superintended by Mortainville, who 
knows none ; so it will be a fine thing between them. 
Tlie dinner long and tiresome. Lord Holland had asked 
me to go home with him after it, but having been 
crammed up in a comer with dirty dishes, I did not feel 
clean enough for decent society afterwards. Lord and 
Lady H. and Allen quite prodigal in their praises this 
morning of my article in the " Edinburgh Review" upon 
** Boyd's Translations of the Fathers," which I pointed out 
to them when I was last in town. Allen said it was full 
of wit, and endeavoured to recollect some book he met 
with the other day which would do admirably for me to 
review in the same manner. He is very anxious that I 
should do something for Jeffrey, who is hard pressed for 



I 



Jan. 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 263 

assistance. Two of the articles in the last number are by 
Sydney Smith, viz. "Madame D'Epinay " and " American 
Travellers." 

30th. Breakfasted with Power, and afterwards went 
with him to call upon little Croker, my Cork friend, who 
has taken lodgings in Great Kussell Street^ in order to 
be near the British Museum, where he is making draw- 
ings from the Elgin Marbles: he told me that Cr oker 
(of the Admiralty) was writing something about the 
maxbles'^"'rrttcir ^se drawings were meant to illus- 
trate. Called and left our names with Bishop the com- 
poser ; parted with Power. Met Hobhouse, and walked 
some time Avith him; has no doubt of succeeding, but 
fears that Hunt will worry him prodigiously : says he 
cannot sleep at nights from anxiety, and he certainly 
seems wasting away under his patriotic operations. Asked 
him, had I any chance of a glimpse at Don Juan ? and then 
found that Byron had desired it might be referred to my 
decision, the three persons whom he had bid Hobhouse 
consult as to the propriety of publishing it being Hook- 
ham Frere, Stewart Rose, and myself. Frere, as the only 
one of the three in town, had read it and pronounced 
decidedly against the publication. Met Murray, who said 
he had settled all with Wilkie, and I was to have 1000 
guineas for the ** Life." Went to Lord Holland's ; asked 
me whether I did not mean to dine there ; said, ^^ Yes." Li 
his peculiarly hearty manner he exclaimed, " Do you know 
that, to console me during your long absence from us, I 
have bought your picture ?" I told him I had heard so, 
and was, of course, much flattered by it. Hallam came in ; 
talked of Reform. Lord H. had just received a letter 
from a man, proposing a plan of reform, by which three 
millions Oryear would be raised to the revenue, each man 

8 4 



264 PIARY OP [-Etat. 39, ] 

paying so much for his vote; as it were taking out a 
license to vote. This was pretty much^ Lord H. said. 
Home Tooke's plan. In France now they pay 12/. a-year 
for the right to vote. America no fair test of universal 
euifmge, as so great a part of the population are slaves. 
Dr. Holland, the Albanian traveller, came in ; Mr. Gren- 
ville, &c. Went to Lady Donegal's : on the way met my 
excellent old friend Admiral Douglas. Frere came in 
while I was at Lady D.'s : was proceeding to talk to him 
about our joint umpiresliip on Byron's poem, when he 
stopped me by a look, and we retired into the next room 
to speak over the subject He said he did not wish the 
opinion he had pronounced to be known to any one ex- 
cept B. himself, lest B. should suppose he was taking merit 
to himself among the righteous for having been the means 
of preventing the publication of the poem. Spoke of the 
disgust it would excite, if published; the attacks in it 
upon Lady B. ; and said it is strange, too, he should think 
there was any connection between patriotism and pro- 
fligacy. If we had a very Puritan court indeed, one can 
understand then profligacy being adopted as a badge of 
opposition to it, but the reverse being the case, there is 
not even that excuse for connecting dissoluteness with 
patriotism, which, on the contrary, ought always to be 
attended by the sternest virtues. Went from thence to 
Rogers; found Luttrell, always clever and amusing. Dinner 
at Lord Holland's : company, Sharpe, three new Members 
of the House of Commons, Lord Althorp. Lord H. told 
me they had come to a resolution that day not to have the 
Peers at the dinner on Wednesday, which he thought 
quite right every way, as, in the first place, it was not 
altogether the thing to have the Commons and Peers 
publicly leaguing together; and, in the next place, 120 



Ja2?. 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 265 

Commoners of opposition would be a more imposing show 
of numbers than about 137 Peers and all. Talked of 
** Gulliver ;" Lilliput and Brobdignag the best of it ; per- 
haps because the satire is more concealed in the narrative^ 
and not so obtrusively the object of the author as it is 
in the latter parts. Sharpe mentioned the " Iter sabter- 
raneum," or " Klimius," of Baron de Holberg, in imitation 
of *^ Gulliver : " in one of the places he visits there is an 
ecclesiastic, whose appointment to some great place depends 
on his thinking the sun triangular in its shape. He 
looks and looks through his telescope, but in vain; he 
cannot think it otherwise than round; another of more 
accommodating vision gets the place, and on being ques-- 
tioned by the unsuccessful gentleman, who asks him how 
it was possible it could appear to him triangular ; as for 
himself, he confessed, let him look at it how or when he 
might, it always seemed to him round. The other answers, 
** Certainly, it must be confessed that, for a triangular 
body, it is very round." This is the only good thing, 
Sharpe said, in the work. Spoke of the sect of Humanita- 
rians : Parr's horror at tliis barbarous word ; much more 
shocked as a grammarian at the word, than as a divine 
at the sect : but why is it more barbarous than Unitarian 
and Trinitarian ? Talked of Arians : I mentioned Locke 
and Newton as Arians: they all said not Newton; but I 
find since that Whiston pronounced him an Arian ; must 
inquire into this. Talked of ** Aristophanes." I men- 
tioned the admirable article upon " Aristophanes " in the 
^* Quarterly," two or three years ago. Sharpe remembered 
it also, and thought it altogether perfect In the evening 
the Members went to attend a meeting preparatory to the 
approaching division and dinner. About eleven o'clock 
\ there came in Greville, Ellis (Lord Clifden's son), Dr. 



-f 



-\ 



266 PIAHT OF [JETAT. 3d. 

Holland, Bennet, Phillipe^ and some others: soon took 
my departure. 

31 St. Went to breakfast with Hobhouse^ in order to 
read Lord Byron's poem: a strange production, full of 
talent and singularity, as everything he writes must be : 
some highly beautiful passages, and some highly humorous 
ones; but, as a whole, not publishable. Don Juan's 
mother is Lady Byron, and not only her learning, but 
various other points about her, ridiculed. He talks of her 
fiivourite dress being dimity (which is the case), dimity 
rhyming very comically with sublimity ; and the concludon 
of one stanza is, ^^ I hate a dumpy woman," meaning 
Lady B. again. This would disgust the public beyond 
endurance. There is also a systematised profligacy running 
through it, which would not be borne. Hobhouse has 
undertaken the delicate, task of letting him know our joint 
opinions. The two following lines are well rhymed, — 

^' But, ob ye lords of ladies intellectual, 
Come, tell us truly, have they not hen-peck'd you fdl ?" 

Hobhouse busy all the time in drawing up a petition about 
the hustings. Sir B. Wilson and Douglas Eannaird came 
in while I was there. Went to Kogers's ; found Luttrell 
there. Head his lines on Ampthill: smooth and elegant 
verses, and his praise of Lord Holland just what it ought 
to be. Lord H. is one of the few noblemen a man can 
praise with a clear conscience. Talked of poetry ; of the 
beauty of some parts of " Kimini,'' and the wretchedness of 
others. L. said, ^* Between what one wouldn't write and 
what one couldn% 'twas a hard game to play at." I said, 
^' A man must risk the former to attain the latter, and it was 
the same daring that produced the things we wouldiit M^ritQ 
and those we thought we couldn't." We all walked into 



■\ 



F£B. 1819.] Tn03JAS MOOBE. 267 

the Fark^ and then Luttrell and I proceeded towards the 
city. I called in at Perry's^ and wrote some lines I had 
long promised in his splendid copy of ^^ Lalla Bookh : " the 
binding of this cost him, I think, twelve pounds. The 
lines are mere prose, but I wished to state plamly the fact, 
that it was owing to his interference with the booksellers 
I got such a magnificent sum for the work. Went to 
Power's, and signed the deed, giving me 50021. a-year for 
BIX years, dated from the first of this month. Dined with 
Kees, and went for an hour and a half to the Circus in the 
evening: had taken my place for next morning before 
dinner. Packed, and went to bed early. By the bye, 
heard that Constable, the bookseller, said he had paid 
Scott in one year 14,000/. Scott to be made a baronet^ 

February lst« In the coach at half-past six : a young 
Irishman one of the passengers, whose family reside entirely 
at Bath. He abused the lower orders of Irish, and said 
it was impossible for a gentleman to live among them with- 
out being kilt Take for granted, from what he said, that 
his father must be some griping landlord or Orange magis- 
trate. Arrived at home at eight in the evening, and found 
the dear wife and her little ones well, and all smiles to 
see me. 

2nd to 9th. Being pressed for time, must lump these 
days. Resumed my "Cribb," which has now been announced 
this fortnight past : promised to have some of the copy 
ready by middle of next week. Finished the " Plain 
Dealer." One may ask the same question as about Aristo- 
phanes, " How could such scenes as that where Manly in 
the dark braves Fidelia to go into Olivia's chamber ever 
have been acted ?" Finished •* Florence Macarthy " to Bessy 
in the evening : much amused with it. Began Fielding's 
" Jonathan Wild." A difficult matter to sustain an irony 



\ 



268 DIARY OP ^ [JETAT.39. 

through a whole book, and even here it fails very often: 
hut the humour and the satire are admirable. The 
Miss Snaps^ Tiskcy, and Doskej ; *^ Miss Molly Straddle 
taking the air in Brydges Street ; " the ^sensions between 
the Prigs on account of the different cock and shape of 
their hats ; and the parties in prison standing up for the 
liberties of Newgate^ all excellent in their way. An article 
in '* Blackwood's Magazine" this month most lavish in my 
pndse. There is also in the " New Edinburgh Monthly 
Review" a very laudatory article on my " Sacred Songs," 

lOtlu Heceived a note from Bowles, in which he says, 
" Have you seen the ^Quarterly?' they are very compli- 
mentary to me as an author," How lucky it is that self- 
love has always something comfortable to retire upon! 
Transcribed the preface and the memorial of " Cribb." 
Bead Wycherley's " Love in a Wood ; " a pleasant co-^ 
medy. The following are lively things : Banger says to 
Dapperwit, who is praising his own mistress abundantly, 
" You praise her as if you had a mind to part with her." 
Dapperwit, in taking money from Banger, says, ** But I 
must pay it you again; I shall not take it unless you 
engage jour honour I shall pay it you agsun." 

1 1th, Sent off my first copy of " Cribb" to town. Tried 
over some " National Airs," published by Jones : shall 
find it difficult to make out another number near so good 
as the^r^^ of my " National Melodies." Began Wycher- 
ley's *^ Gentleman Dancing Master," Went on with 
** Jonathan Wild" to Bess in the evening. 

1 2th. Worked at the remaining part of " Cribb." Though 
the " Chants of Bob Gregson" have been announced in 
the advertisement this fortnight past, not a line, or even 
a thought y of them is bom yet. Finished Wycherley's 
" Dancing Master:" the plot farcical and frivolous, but 



•i 



Fbb. 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 269 

some parts highly dramatic. Found one or two pretty 
things in " Jones," particularly a march of Dr. Boyce's, 
Trhich will do very well for the " Sacred Songs." 

13 th, 14th. Niente-niente, 

15th. Dined with Macdonald: met a Captain Edge- 
cumbe, of the navy, with all the cheerful bluntness of his 
class. He told very humorously of his having been taken 
in by Gtde Jones's eloquence one night at the British 
Forum, to hold up his hand for annual parliaments and 
universal suffrage. 

16th. Transcribed some of the remaining part of 
^' Cribb." Read Wycherley's « Country Wife ; " an ad- 
mirable comedy, but the foundation of its plot makes it not 
only unactable, but even unreadable, except by men. It is, 
however, fuU of life and the very esprit du diable, and must 
have delighted Charles and his witty, profligate courtiers 
beyond anything. No wonder Wycherley was such a 
favourite with him. 

17th. Looked over Garrick's alteration from the 
" Country Wife." Though the very rinsings of Wycher- 
ley's play have a raciness in them that is indestructible, 
yet the " Country Girl" hangs flat on the palate after the 
other : there is, however, much ingenuity in his way of 
altering the plot. Macdonald's dance in the evening. Mrs. 
Phipps and Bessy the belles of the evening, which it was 
easy to be, with much less beauty than Bessy's. Did not 
get to bed till six o'clock, after dancing the whole night. ; 

18th. The day lost in weariness and languor after last 
night. Received a proof sheet of " Cribb." Began one 
of Mrs. Opie's new tales to Bessy in the evening, but 
found it impracticable. 

19th. Called upon Mrs. Phipps ; low spirited and un- 
well in the evening. Found I had marked the following 



270 DIABT OF [-«TAT.39. 

tlungs in the ** Country Wife :" — ** Sparkish. Though I 
have known thee a great while, never go, if I do not love 
thee as well as a new acquaintance." '' Lady Fidgit Yes, 
but for all that, we think wildness in a man as desirable a 
quality as in a duck or rabbit ; a tame man, fob ! *' Re- 
ceived ** The Banquet," a poem, from the author, with a 
letter (anonymous) full of high-flown praises ; pas grande 
chose. 

20th. A sadness over me ; sometimes like that of my 
young days, and therefore pleasant, but sometimes mingled 
with self-reproach, and so far painful. Began another of 
Mrs. Opie's tales to Bessy in the evening ; something bet- 
ter, but duU enough. B^ead some of the ** Shipwreck of 
the Osw^o ;" almost incredible sufferings. 

21st. Breakfasted in bed for the purpose of hastening 
the remainder of my " Cii'W work. It is singular the 
difference that bed makes, not only in the facility but the 
fancy of what I write. Whether it be the horizontal po- 
sition (which Bicherand, the French physiolo^st, says is 
most favourable to thought), or more probably the removal 
of all those external objects that divert the attention, it is 
certain that the effect is always the same ; and if I did not 
find that it relaxed me exceedingly, I should pass half my 
days in bed for the purpose of composition. There is a 
Latin poem of M. de Valois, in which he has adduced high 
authorities for this practice: 

" Quis nescit qaondam, Ausonios Graiosque poetas, &c. 
In lectis cum scriniolo studuisse sedentes.** 

Where did he learn that Herodotus and Plato studied in 
bed? 

" Lucifer Herodotum vidit Vesperque cubantem, 
Desedit totos haec Plato saepe dies.*' 



i 



Teb, 1819.] THOMAS MOOBE. 271 

In the evening the Phippses sent their carnage for us to go 
and take tea ; came home about eleven* 

22nd. Received a letter from Mr. Ogle, Charles Sheri- 
dan*s cousin, containing an anecdote very creditable to 
Sheridan: transcribed some of my appendix, and sent 
it off. 

23rd. Walked to Bowood to consult the volume of 
Pope that contains Scriblerus. Looked over Bowles's 
edition; was struck by the characteristic weakness and 
maudlin wordiness of his notes, contrasted as they are with 
the original remarks and rich erudition of Warton's that 
accompany them. Finished the " Shipwreck of the 
Osw^o.'' 

24th. Received a letter from Wilk ig in wondrous hurty, 
for the *^ Life of Sheridan," and begging me to send up 
some of the MS. to go to press immediately. Poor little 
man 1 if he gets it within the year he may be very well 
satisfied. Mr. Money the clergyman called upon me. Got 
on the subject of the Trinity ; showed off my knowledge 
of the passage in Timothy, and its different readings of 69 
and &S09; mentioned the curious examination of the 
Alexandrian manuscript by Dr. Berriman and somebody 
else; then spoke of the verse in John; all to the astonish- 
ment, I doubt not, of the good parson. 

25th. The Macdonalds and Hugheses dined with us* 
With a little assistance from Phipps (who joined us when 
his wife and he came in the evening) finished five bottles 
of wine. All stayed to supper, and seemed to enjoy them- 
selves. I sang in the evening, and, in spite of the wine, 
was in good voice. Macdonald brought two or three of 
the famous Chinese birds' nests to show us. I eat of the 
soup one day at Sir S. Raffles's : the soup was like other 
soup, but the nest that floated in it was the deviL Mac- 



272 DJAHY OF F-ETAT.sau: 

donald saye^ however, it ought to have been all dissohed. 
Received a letter from my father to-day, saying, that nay 
letting him draw upon me for the 40iL to pay his little 
debts gave him a happiness of mind he had not knowrx 
for a long time. 

26th, 27th, 28th. Copied out and sent off the remainder 
of my '* Cribb." Wished to do something for it about 
Canning's insolent ridicide of Mackintosh the other nighty 
on the subject of the transported convicts, but Rogers thinks 
I have not time enough. I meant to have written an. 
expostulation to Canning from one of the gentlemen on 
board the hulks (a descendant of the great Jonathan Wild), 
on the slighting manner in which he spoke of a fraternity 
whose code of morals and honour he had so much adopted 
in his own political conduct ; and invoking the shade of 
Jonathan Wild against this treacherous and recreant imi- 
tation of his greatness. 

March 1st. Idled a good deaL Began to read the 
correct report which I have of Sheridan's great West- 
minster Hall speech. Find it has been sadly misrepre- 
sented in all the published accounts. Poor Bessy's hand 
and arm very much swelled from a whitlow on her finger. 
Sent for King. Frightened myself about it a good deal 
by reading the article on whitlows in the Encyclopaedia, 
as her symptoms seem like those of the worst ca^es. I 
dined at Phipps's to meet the Macdonalds. Found Bessy, 
I think, a little better on my return. 

2nd. Bessy much better, but very low and nervous. 
A desperate rainy day. Played over various books of 
airs, and read. Began Leckie's work on the *^ Balance of 
Power." 

3rd. Began a Sacred Song to Dr. Boyce's March* 
Mozart seems to have had this march in his head when he 



I, 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 273 

►te tliat fine one in the " Zauber-flote.** The subject I 

e i^iken is the Day of Judgment. Looked at Ogilrie's 

. on this subject, which I well remember thinking so 

jxy fine when I was a boy : but Ogilvie was but a poor 

►XTL<i dauber in the art. Some of his references to Scrip- 

'-y towever, were useful to me. Worked at one verse 

111 t:lxe morning, in order to get in a line which I wish to 

maikio the burthen of every verse. Macdonald sent to ask 

iKi^ t,o join Phipps and him at dinner ; and as he goes in a 

day or two (most likely for good) I accepted the invitation. 

I^iriished our three bottles of claret. Mrs. Phipps dined 

"^w^ltli Bessy. Brought Phipps and Macdonald home with 

xxie at night. Found the ladies at cribbage with Hughes. 

AH. supped, and drank a couple of jugs of egg-wine after* 

waxds. 

4th. Received a letter from Miss — , one of my un- 
l^nown lady correspondents, who sent me the two specimens 
of her poetry, and said her own favourite of the two was 
tliat which began ** Come Stella, arouse thee.** Wishes 
me to recommend her to the Longmans, and mentions 
the titles of about half-a*dozen works which they may 
choose from. Sends me also some lines upon Scott. 
Syron, and myself, whom she calls the Trianguleme 
Major. Received also a letter from Mrs. W— — , the 
mother of the fourteen-year old poetess, saying how me- 
lancholy her daughter was at my neglect of her last 
communications, and sending me some pensive and rather 
pretty verses the girl wrote on the occasion. Went on 
with my Sacred Song. Wrote a second, and part of a 
third verse. Bessy much better and walked out : asked 
her medical man. King, to dine with us on Sunday ne^ 
Received the last proof but one of " Cribb," and sent it 
back. Answered the letters of the ladies. Read Leckie. 

VOL. II. T 



-I 



( 



274 diahy of [^tat.ss. 

A barbarous style this man ^vritcs. Nothing so ruinous to 
style as liying among foreigners and studying their lan- 
guages. Gibbon nearly lost his English altogether by it. 
The faults of Mr. Fox's writing may perhaps be traced to 
his Hfiffuism ; and some of the purest writers of £nglisb 
have been those that knew but little of other languages. 

5th. Finished the Sacred Song, and began another to 
an air in Latrobe*s Collection by Halse. Sent off the last 
corrected sheet of ** Cribb,** which is to be out on Tuesday 
next (9th). Receiyed a letter from Luttrel, whose lines 
upon ** Ampthill" reached me yesterday. He is evidently 
very anxious about their success. Bead some of ** Zadig" 
to Bessy after dinner : how good ! Zadig ^' knew as much 
of metaphysics as has ever yet been known ; that is to 
say, little or nothing of the matter." The great physician 
Hermes, who predicted the loss of Zadig's eye, and tells 
him, ** If it had been the right eye I could have cured it, 
but the wounds of the left are incurable." When Zadisr 
recovered, Hermes wrote a very elaborate treatise to prove 
that he ought not to have been cured, which Zadig how- 
ever did not think worth his perusal. Zadig advises the 
Arabians to " make a law, that no widow should be per- 
mitted to bum herself till she had conversed with a young 
man one hour in private. The law was accordingly 
passed, and since that time no woman has burned herself 
in Arabia." 

6th. Wrote two verses of the Sacred Song, " Where 
are you, Souls of the Sainted ? " Looked over " Evelyn's 
Diary." How I wish every such man kept a diary 1 Many 
things in it very interesting : his seeing at Paris the 
procession of young Louis XIV. (upon his assuming the 
reins of power) from Hobbes the philosopher's window. 
The account of the Fire of London very striking: his 



ABCH, 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 275 

fxrequent intercourse with Charles II. ; his horror at the 
gambling of the Court, and at being obliged now and then 
-to sit out ^* a lewd play" in his Majesty's company. 
iCinished *^ Zadig " in the evening. 

7 th. Finished the Song. Had to dinner Falkner (the 
<5urate), his wife. Miss Morris, Hughes, Mrs. Phipps, 
xijid King. Sung sacred music for them in the evening : 
-they supped. 

8th. Began another Sacred Song to a chant of Lord 
IMomington's. Not at all well to-day. Too much wine 
yesterday. In the evening looked over some of Sheridan's 
•papers. Various copies, both rough and correct, of the 
*^ School for Scandal." Strange that " The Bivals" should 
be the only one of his pieces of which there appears to be 
no trace among his papers. Resolved to resume my 
Sheridan task, and be industrious about it. 

9th. Walked to Devizes to buy some blank books for 
the purpose of dividing my task into different departments, 
so that I may be able to pursue each according as I have 
the materials, and not be stopped by the want of inform- 
ation on any one point as I have been hitherto. Head a 
play to Bessy and Mrs. Phipps in the evening. 

10th. Finished Leckie's book : the historical part 
confusedly and dully written, but his summing up con- 
tains some remarks that set one thinking, and some that 
set one smiling. His hint to the sovereigns of Europe 
to have wives from Circassia and Georgia (as they have in 
Turkey), in or3er to avoid disputes about succession in the 
female line, is excellent, and might afford a good subject 
for a political squib. Finished the Saxjred Song to Lord 
Momington's chant. An extract to-day from " Cribb," 
in the " Chronicle." Looked over some of Sheridan's 
papers in the evening. 

T 2 



276 DIARY OP [iETAT.3». 

11th. Trying to write words to a Benedict us of Mo* 
zart's^ but, from the difficulty of the measure^ fear I shall 
not be able to accomplish it Have some idea of writing 
a playful thing against quadrilles in favour of country- 
dances. Thought of making it mock-heroic, but it is so 
difficult to buckram one*s lines enough for that style. Read 
Bristed*s " Resources of the United States.*' This is the 
person who has accused me of " swinging into the oppodte 
extreme " about America. Hia book is full of informa- 
tion. Found two letters of the Prince's among Sheridan's 
papers; one dated in 1803, informing S. that he had just 
received " a most impertinent letter from Addington," and 
desiring him to come to him, as it must be answered 
immediately. 

12th. Wrote a verse in a sort of scrambling metre to 
the " Benedictus." Read some of a Minerva press novel 
to Bessy in the evening. Wrote a few sentences of the 
** Life," and read « Bristed." The population of America 
but ten millions. Great faults in their judiciary : in 
most of the States the judges are only appointed for a few 
years, which must be fatal to their independence ; in Con- 
necticut and Rhode Island they are appointed annually. 
The diversity of the laws through the States another 
serious grievance : a crime ptmishable in New York not 
punishable in New Jersey. The extent of the Western 
country is more than fifteen times as large as all the 
British Isles. 

13fh. Have heard nothing from the Longmans about 

\ " Cribb." Fear very much it is a coup manque; or too vul* 
gar a subject perhaps for the refined readers, and too rf fin- 
edly executed for the vulgar ones. Walked with Bessy in 
the evening to the Phipps's. Drank tea and supped there. 

j^ 14th. Had a letter from the Longmans to say that 



March, 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 277 

tliey had already nearly sold the first edition of ** Cribb,** 
(2000 copies), and had worked off 2000 more as a second 
and third edition. This is far beyond what I expected. 
They sent me also a review of it in the " Literary Gazette ;" 
very friendly, indeed, considering it is a Tory publication. 
All this makes my mind easier on the subject. Copied 
out some of the " Sacred Songs" I bad written. The 
Phippses drank tea and supped with us. P. told us of a 
Mr. Buckton, a proctor from town, who gave Bessy's 
health at the club at Devizes on Friday, and spoke of her 
as a " divine person ;" her voice ** the sweetest he had ever 
heard," &c. &c. It puzzled us both much to find out 
where he had met her. 

15th. Walked into Devizes ; made, on the way, some 
verses for my " Quadrille Poem." Called at Mrs. Hughes's, 
and met there Mr. Buckton. Asked Mrs. H. aftenvards 
w^here he had met Bessy, and it appears he travelled 
often w^ith her in the morning stage last year when we 
lived at Hornsey. In the evening read some of Adol- 
phus's " History of George the Third." 

16th. Wrote some lines. Bead " Bristcd." Phipps 
having gone to Bath, Mrs. P. dined with us and Hughes. 
Phipps returned unexpectedly at seven o'clock from Bath* 
Got him some dinner. Played the Jew in the evening 
much to Bessy's delight All supped with us. 

17th. Finished " Bristed ;" a very wordy book, but 
sometimes eloquent, and full of information about America. 
In the evening looked through the first volume of " Mills 
India ;" a rich display of learning ; combats all the 
flattering theories and notices that have been held with 
respect to the Hindoos ; exposes many instances of weak- 
ness in Sir W. Jones on this subject. Was he not a little 
weak ? What somebody has said of Longinus might, I 

T 3 



278 DIABT OF [iETAT.39. 

think, be well applied to him : if)iKoKoyov fiev^ ^CKofro^^Gv 
Be ovBafi€09. 

ISth. Set out between twelve and one to walk to 
BowWs. Took the way through Bowood, and had a 
most delicious walk of it. Arrived at Bowles's between 

three and four. Doctor at dinner : a gontlemany 

who has read multa not multum: a good sort of man^ 
however. Bowles has altered his drawing-room, and set 
up an organ, and books in it. The organ made by 
Chevers, a common carpenter at Calne. His statue of 
Melancthon nearly ready. Asked him whether he meant 
to place it in one of his grottos, in defiance of Pope's 
'* Nor in a hermitage set Doctor Clarke." Talked of 
Calvinism (his fevourite subject) after dinner. He said 
that almost all the atrocious crimes of the day were owing 
to this doctrine. Mentioned several instances. I men- 
tioned a quotation I had seen from a work by Bishop 
Hall on " Moderation ;" at the end of which he says, 
'* Master Calvin did the Church good service in seizing 
and burning Servetus." He was surprised at this being 
in Hall. Said he had read but one of Hall's writings, 
I. e. his " Hard Measure," and that Hall certainly de- 
served the ** hard measure'* he himself had met with in 
1643, and which he describes in this work, for uttering 
such a sentiment. I hjid found B., when I came to dinner, 
reading Campbell's new work on the Poets, and very 
nervous at the attack which C. has made on his remarks 
upon Pope. Told him I had seen it extracted in the 
** Chronicle" as *^ an answer to Bowles." B. is resolved to 

reply to it through the same channel. Dr. and he 

and I sung some glees and sacred things together in the 
evening. Two worse voices could not well be found. 
Slept at Bowles's. 



\ 



March, 1819.] TUOMAS MOOBE. .279 

19th. After breakfast we set out for Bath: stopj>ed 
at Corsham in our way. Magnificent house : the hall 
very striking; had only time to look at the two very 
I fine Claudes. Methue n asked us to fix a day to dine with 
him: fixed Friday next. Arrived in Bath at three. 
Walked about. Met unexpectedly La dy C. Fit zgerald 
and her husband. Came here to meet the Granards^ who 
are daily expected. Saw and was introduced to Mr. 
W , who has a beautiful seat near Bath — a particu- 
larly gentlemanlike and amiable mannered man. What 
interested me most was to hear that he is the man for 
whom my excellent friend Dr. Parkinson was jilted in his 
youth by a girl whom he had long loved, whom he had 
educated for the purpose of marrying her, and by whom 
he thought himself beloved. In a visit to Bath she was 

dazzled by the attractions of the fortune of W , and 

married him ; but not contented with making one amiable 
man her victim (for Parkinson never has recovered the 
disappointment), she was resolved to sacrifice her hus- 
band's happiness also, and accordingly ran away from him 
with a Captain S — — , from whom she afterwards passed 
thi'ough various hands, and through every gradation of 
profligacy, till death, I believe, has put an end to her 
infamous career. An annuity which her first lover (P.) 
allowed her, when he heard of the wretchedness she had 
fallen into, was the only thing that kept her at last from 
starving in the streets. This circumstance has cast a tone 
of pensiveness over Parkinson's life (who has never 
married), which renders the goodness and purity of his 
heart still more interesting. Bowles and I (after securing 
our tickets for the Harmonic in the evening) dined at the 
White Hart Went at night to the Harmonic ; very full 
rooms — at least 300 persons. Introduced to a whole 

T 4 



280 . DIAKY OP [iETAT. 39, 

shoal of baronets. Sir Robert This and Sir John That 
Never was so stared at in my life before. Three things 
of mme sung, " The IVIinstrel Boy," " Hark ! the Vesper 
Hymn," and a glee from " Anacreon." , one of 

the presidents, proved to be an acquaintance of mine. 
— *s name (before he changed it for that of his first 
wife, an heiress) was Lill, and Colonel Barry wrote the 
following epitaph on his tongue: 

" Here lies the tongue of Godfrey Lill, 
Which always lied, and here lies still^ 

At supper escaped from a wretched table, where I had 
been preordained to sit between two ugly old Blue Boars, 
who said they wished much to "teZA to Mr. Moore." 
After supper, to my no small horror, ** The Minstrel Boy " 
was sung again, for the purpose of introducing a speech 
about me from Captain Crofton, proposing my health in a 
most panegyric style. It was received with great accla- 
mations ; but, from having no previous suspicion of such 
an honour, I had hardly a decent word to say in returning 
thanks for it. I know I concluded thus : " But perhaps 
silence is the best sort of eloquence, particularly for an 
Irishman : I shall, therefore," &c. &c. I meant to have 
said, " It Is, at least, a very Irish sort." During the ball, 
was stared at on all sides without mercy. In such a place 
as Bath, any little lion makes a stir. Got to bed between 
two and three. 

20th. Called upon Lady C. Fitzgerald at half-past 
eleven. She mentioned that young D'Arblay (Miss Bur-< 
ney's son) had all " Lalla Rookh" by heart : praised him 
highly. Returned in an hour to Bowles, who wished me 
to read what he had done in answer to Campbell. Found 
him in the bar of the T\Tiite Hart, dictating to a waiter 



March^1819.] THOMAS MOOBE. 281 

(who acted as amanuensis for him) his ideas of the true 
sublime in poetry : never was there such a Parson Adams 
since the real one. Dr. Sigmond called to say the Bur* 
detts would be glad to see me at two o'clock. Went 
there ; saw only Lady B. Walked with the Fitzgeralds 
to Urpham's the bookseller; an admirable concern for 
such a place as Bath. Bought a pretty copy of ** Cow- 
par's Poems" as a present for Bessy. Settled with Urp- 
ham about binding my ** Kees's Cyclopaedia.*' and some 
other books. Was asked to dine at several places^ but 
preferred dining alone at the "White Hart (Bowles having 
gone home) for the purpose of going early to the play : 
— **Rob Roy;" dull enough; a Miss Tree sang pretty 
well. Went, during the third act, to Lady Burdett's box. 
Much pleased with her pretty daughters, who pressed me 
much to stay next day to dinner, but must go home. 
They went awjiy after the play ; I staid and saw the farce 
of " High Notions ;" wretched stuff. 

21st. Breakfasted with the Fitzgeralds. They sent 
for Field, the organist of the cathedral, and told him I 
meant to attend the service : he went off to prepare some- 
thing good. Took my place, as we went to church, in a 
coach that was to set off at one. A chant of Lord Mom- 
ington's sung; a beautiful response, which I brought 
away in my memory. Could not wait for the anthenu 
Arrived at home at five. 

22nd to 24th. Bead '^ Mill's India," and made notes 
for my Remarks on Hastings' Trial. The "Examiner" 
of last Sunday promised extracts " from the lately pub- 
lished Memorial of that powerful hand, Mr. Thomas Cribb :" 
has not, however, given them this Sunday. Wrote to 
Murray, to say I would draw upon him at three months 
for 1507. of my Sheridan money. In his answer he says. 



282 DIARY OF [-fix AT. 39. 

\ >. ** I wish you would write a * Tom Brown' on the litera- 

ture, manners, and chazBCters of the day, and we would 
sell a billion* * Cribb ' is not happy." This latter sentence 
annoyed me exceedingly, as corroboratiog what I long 
feared about this luckless production. Had a chaise, and 
took Bessy to visit Mr. Merryweather. Treated little 
Stacey to a show at Calne. 

25iiu Walked into Devizes. Found the banker would 
not discount a bill at three months, so drew for a hundred 
at two months. Had a letter from the Donegals scolding 
me about ^' Cribb," which added not a little to my vexation. 
I Resolved never to have any thing more to do with satire : 
''I it is a path in which one not only strews but gathers 
thorns ; and nothing but the most flourishing success can 
enable one to brave and laugh at all the enmity which it 
produces. The instant there is anything like a failure, all 
the stung persons are ready with their stings in return. 
Determined, as I walked home, to write " A Farewell to 
Satire, by Thomas Brown," &c. &c. Was asked to stay 
and dine at the Hughes's, but refused, because this is the 
anniversary of our wedding-day. Drank my darling 
Bessy's health in a bumper after dinner, and many happy 
returns. Power sent us down a turbot and lobster for the 
occasion, but it came too late. Bead Mill and Voltaire's 
account of Lally, vols. xxii. and xxvi. 

26th. Had a chaise for Bessy to return visits at Grosset's 
and Hawkins', Laycock Abbey (which we went over) ; a 
remarkably curious old place. The cloisters in perfect 
preservation. I dined at Methuen's. Company : Bowles, 
Joy, and Miss Fuller. Crabbe was to come, but sent a 
very foolish excuse. Mrs. Methuen very pretty and very 
agreeable. I sung in the evening. Had received this 
morning, before I left home, a letter from the Longmans, 



F 



March, 1819,] THOMAS MOOBE. 283 

whicb put me in better spirits. The non-annouiicement of 
the second edition is accounted for: they have nearly 
sold the third thousand, and are about to advertise the 
third edition. They have also sent me my account, and 
the balance against me, 250L, will be covered by my share 
of the three editions. This is so far very well, but still 
think I shall write the *^ Farewell to Satire." Slept at 
Methuen's. 

27th. Mentioned at breakfast a charade of Mr. Fox's, 
which Lady Charlotte Fox had told me : — " I would not be 
my first for all of my second that is contained in my whole.'' 
u e. ** Scotland : " also a ludicrous riddle by one of the 
Smiths, — " Use me well, I'm everybody ; scratch my back, 
Vth nobody ;^^ "A looking-glass." After breakfast Mrs. 
M. led me through the picture rooms. A fine " Head 
of Salvator Mundi" by Carlo Dolce ; " Bubens and his 
Mistress hunting," a fine picture ; ** Kubens and his three 
Wives." Always makes himself so handsome, though he was 
by no means so, and was very carrotty headed (?). In the 
course of conversation with Mrs. M., remarking what odd 
things women's hearts were (in reference to matters of love 
and gallantry), she answered, *^ not odder than men's." But 
I asked her, didn't she think the restraints with which 
women had to struggle produce more inconsistencies in 
their conduct, and more fantastical fancies in their minds, 
than were usually observable in men. The course of the 
latter is like a free, unresisted current; whereas the con- 
tinued pressure under which the feelings of woman lie, 
and the narrow channels of duty through which they are 
forced, produce all those multiform shoots and unexpected 
gushes which arise from similar causes in artificial water- 
works, in walking home I finished a song to a Swiss air, 
which I began a day or two ago, " Love and Hope." I 



284 PIABT OF [£t^t. 39* 

mean it as a subject for Stothard to design somethiDg from. 
Found another kind and comforting letter from Rees, 
saying, however, that *' whether I gave up satire or not, 
he, for himself, would not advise my publishing a poem 
entided ' A Farewell to Satire,' " Read '* ^fjOTs India.'' 

28th. Bowles called according to appointment, having 
given me the proofs of a pamphlet he is about to publish 
(on the increase of crimes, poor laws, &c.) to look over, 
I had marked with a pencil the things I had particularly 
objected to ; but the truth is, the whole is weak and con- 
fused. His head, however, is now full of his answer to 
Campbell, which his present intention is to publish in the 
shape of a letter to me. Mentioned to him that Foscolo 
told me he had a design of publishing a parallel between 
Italian and English poetiy in four letters addressed to 
Crabbe, Campbell, Rogers, and myself, of which, however, 
I have heard nothing more since. Finished the first 
volume of Evelyn ; a good man, but^ with all his good- 
ness and piety, a timeserver. Read ** Mill's India ; " a 
hard-headed fellow (and Iiis style as hard as his head), who 
hates lawyers to a most exemplary degree, in which I most 
heartily agree with him. I am reading " Belsham's George 
the Third" for the second time: find, by comparing him 
with Mill, that his sketch of Indian affairs is done with much 
accuracy, which tells well for his fidelity on other points. 
Sent off to Power the song of ** Love and Hope," and a 
ballad, which I composed in the chaise, when I last went 
up to town, both words and music (in fact« I sang it all the 
way), called, " How happy once, though winged with sighs." 

29th and 30th. Read Mill's India and Belsham, and 
made extracts. Wrote to Mrs. D' Alton, the friend of 
poor Louisa Maria Stewart, a young poetess (whose manu- 
script I have just received in a beautiful red cover with a 



ApbU., I8I9.] THOMAS MOOBE. 



((UNIVERSITT 



gold leaf Hibemia on the sides) to tell the poor girl, aa 
delicately as possible^ that no bookseller in the world would 
give her one sixpence for the manuscript, but suggested a 
subscription, in which I should be most happy to assist. 
Murray writes to me that Hobhouse has received another 
letter from Lord Byron, peremptorily insisting on the pub- 
lication of *'Don Juan." But they have again remon- 
strated: the murder, however, toill out^ some time or 
other. A letter from my dear father, saying that my mo- 
ther has ^^ just told him (with a sharp scolding) that he 
never writes to me but when he wants money," ** which" 
(adds the dear old man) ^^is too much the case." Bless them 
both I 

31st. The Moneys called to beg I would retract the 
apology I had sent them for dinner on Saturday next, and 
meet Mr. and Mrs. Bowles there. Believe I shalL How 
my old acquaintance, — , has disgraced himself in 

this business of in the House! Many men go 

through life with good characters who are thorough rascals 
all the while ; their success in the world keeping them 
out of the way of those temptations which would draw 
'brth the full display of their dispositions ; and the little 
symptoms of it that do escape being charitably inter- 
preted, as proofs of keenness and knowledge of the world ; 
an eye to the main chance, &c &c. Beceived a kind 
letter from Corry, taking for granted that "Cribb" is 
mine, and wondering at my Jlash acquirements. Mrs. 
Phipps drove Bessy to Devizes; didn't dine ii\\.jfive in 
consequence. 

April Ist. Made Bessy turn her cap awry in honour of 
the day. Finished the epitaph for poor Joe, and hope 
I have now done with the subject. Walked to tell the 
Moneys I would dine with them : the Phippses to tea with 



286 DIABT OF [^TAT.39. 

• 

US in the eyening. Received a packet of books from town. 
The speeches of Burke^ Fox, and Wjudham, which I had 
ordered from the Longmans, and Campbell's '^British 
Poets " and Stewart's " N(»rth of Italy," sent as presents 
by Murray to Bessy and me. Wrote some of the " Liife " 
this morning. 

2nd. Wrote some sentences of the " Life.*' Dined at 
Phipps's. 

3rd. Wrote and read. Dined at Money's. The com- 
pany, the Bowleses, two Mr. Methuens, and Mr. and Mr& 
Merry wether. Talked of prisons, penitentiaries, &c The 
penitentiary at Devizes was at first so famous for its good 
soups, that the prisoners used to be auKious to get back 
again to enjoy them ; but the soups have been abolished. 
Mrs. Bowles mentioned a curious circumstance that lately 
happened at Knowell (I think), her native place, where a 
woman having dreamt that her husband was killed by 
lightning, could not dismiss the thought from her mind, 
and during a thunder-storm that occurred soon after, when 
there came a dreadful flash of lightning, she exclaimed, 
'* That flash has killed my husband :" and it was the case. 
He was then working in a field about two miles off, and a 
messenger shortly arrived to say that that very flash had 
struck him dead. Talked after dinner of sermons. I 
mentioned that Mr. Fox always spoke of Barrow with 
enthusiasm, and that, upon the strength of this opinion, I 
bought his sermons, but foxmd him insufferably dry ; at 
least as far as I read, which was not very far. It is 
certain however, I believe, that besides containing the 
amplest stores of theological learning, he has also bursts 
of eloquence, which though not so poetical as Jeremy 
Taylor's, are, from their variety and force, far more strik- 
ing. I mentioned a coin that has just been discovered in 



Apml,1819.3 THOMAS MOORE, 287 

Ireland, with a Hebrew inscription on one side^ and a head 
of Christ on the other. The inscription has been trans- 
lated by three or four Hebraists, and the discrepancy in 
their translations is rather unaccountable, except upon the 
supposition, that these scholars know as much of Hebrew 
as Zadig did of metaphysics, i. e. little or nothing of the 
matter. One of the company mentioned that the first 
symptoms of poor Sufus Lloyd's madness was his ringing 
the alarm bell in the middle of the night at Belvoir Castle, 
and when the servants all came running np to know what 
was the matter, he said, " You forgot to leave me my 
toast and water." How many people there are in this life 
who, like poor Rufus, ring the alarm bell about toast and 
water I Story of a cart-wheel going over a dandy's neck, 
and his being saved by the thickness of his neckcloth. 
Found Mrs. Phipps with Bessy on my return to supper. 
Bead some of Plutarch's " Life of Alcibiades," before I 
went to bed. Alcibiades, after all, a sad roue, and would 
hardly be fit company for gentlemen now-a-days. 

4th and 5th. Wrote some of " Sheridan." Bead Lord 
!Erskine's letter upon Fox's style of eloquence and politics, 
prefixed to Wr^ht's collection of the latter's speeches. 
Bead some of Stewart Bose's " Italy." These accounts 
of Italy make me so agog for travelling that I cannot sit 
easy upon my chair. 

6th and 7th. At my task. Beceived a letter from 
Linley, expressing great impatience at not hearing my 
opinion of his music ; in other words, dying to be praised. 
Must do it for the poor man. Some of his things are, 
indeed, very pretty; particularly the "Ariel's Adieu" to 
Bowles's words, and a particularly sweet melody, " Fair 
Leila, gentle," &c. : but his style, in general, is too old- 
fashioned for my taste. Beceived a very flattering letter 



M 



288 DIABY OF [;£tat.39. 

from a Mr. Michell Forbes^ inclosing me the proposals of 
a subscription for a monmnent to Bums^ and speaking of 
my similitiide to '^ the Bard" of Caledonia in my love of 
liberty, in the pathos, fancy, and sprightliness of the songs 
I had written to the melodies of my country, &c. &c. 
Received another work of the author of '^ The Banquet," 
called " The Dessert" and '* The Tea," accompanied by 
one of those yWcatory letters with which we asses of litera- 
ture rub each other. Must rub him, of course, in return. 
Read Plutarch's ** Life of Coriolanus : " how picturesque 
his entrance into Antium, and the house of Tullus. Wrote 
to Bessy's sister, between whom and young Murray an 
attachment has for some time e^dsted, saying that, if her 
heart is really set upon marrying him, and he is worthy of 
her, I will do my utmost to facilitate any arrangements 
that may be made for the support of her mother, &c &c. 

8th. Fhipps called in his gig, to ask if I would go with 
him to Devizes : took an idle fit, and went Dined with 
him ; and Bessy joined me there in the evening. 
• 9th. Good Friday ! went to church. A most inhuman 
sermon: the sufferings described with all the monotony 
and coolness of an auctioneer. How different do I re- 
member the Passion sermons in Dublin chapels, when, at 
the moment that the feelings of the congregation were 
excited to the utmost pitch by the most eloquent and 
impassioned description of what the Saviour had suffered^ 
the orator suddenly produced the crucifix before them, 
and the whole assembly, with groans and tears, prostrated 
themselves on the earth. 

* 10th. Dined at Salmon's : company, the Phippses, Mr 
Pearce (member for Devizes), Wyatt, whom I knew in 
Ireland when he had the care of Lord Ormond's estate^ 
Tyler, &c. Wyatt, an intelligent man. Talked, among 



Ipril, 1819.3 THOMAS MOOBE. 289 

ther things^ of the Bank question and the Poor-laws 
^earce a bank director). These Tories all seemed to feel 
>w critically the fate of the country hangs upon both ques- 
ions. Remarked how tenderly all parties seemed to han- 
[e the subject of the Bank the other night in the House^ 
if from a general consciousness of the extreme delicacy, 
md perhaps danger^ of the question. Pearce says it is 
[understood in town that the Duke of Wellington is very 
anxious to become Prime Minister, and that, in order to 
get the character of un homme d^affairesy he had himself 
named on the Bank Committee, and attended it most 
punctually every day. This will not do. If the Bank 
was to be taken by a coup de mairif his Grace might be 
the person, but God preserve us from his statesmanship I 
Sung in the evening. 

1 1 th. Began words to a very pretty French air. Walked 
to Devizes for my letters. Wrote to Mr. Forbes to say I 
would subscribe three guineas to Burns's monument, and 
a guinea for Mrs. Moore. The sunset this evening 
glorious : the thoughts that came over me while I looked 
at it, of how little I have done in this world, and how 
much my soul feels capable ofy would have made me cry 
like a child, if I had given way to them ; but surely there 
is some better sphere for those who have but begun their 
race in this. The Phippses supped with us. 

12 th. Wrote a second verse to the French air, and 
began words to an air of my own, which I have some 
thoughts of passing off as a national one, Swedish perhaps. 
Kead the speeches of Burke and Fox during the years '81 
and '82. Burke's speeches alone, of all modern oratory, 
deserve to take a rank in the literature of the country ; 
they altogether display a talent almost superhuman. 

13th. Read Pitt's two or three speeches during the 

VOL. II. U 



f 



290 DIABY OP [3Etat,39. 

same period. Hughes and Ids boys and Mrs. Phipps 
dined with ns. Played " The Jew" in the evening: 
had finished the words to my own air in the morning. 
Received a letter from Horace Twiss, asking me to write 
the prologue to his forthcoming tragedy, and telling me 
that Wm. Spenoer writes the epilogue. 

14tlL Walked to Bowood to see the Lansdownes, who 
are come down for the Easter ; found them at home ; very 
delightfiil conversation, as one always has with him. Told 
me that Murray has offered Stewart Bose 2000Z. for a 
translation of '* Ariosto." I mentioned an almost literal 
translation of him which I had seen^ stanza for stanza, the 
English on one side and the Italian on the other, and 
which I have long been looking to purchase. We all 
acknowledged the convenience of such a thing, let one 
know the language ever so well ; particularly in looking 
hastily for any passage, you find it so much more quickly in 
the English, from the much greater familiarity the eye 
naturally has with it. I could sympathise with the world 
in some of its admirations, but thought it better to be 
silent in these cases, than risk an impeachment of my own 
taste in questioning that of others. Chaucer, for instance, in 
what terms some speak of him I while I confess I find hiux 
unreadable. Lord L. said he was glad to hear me say 
so, as he had always in silence felt the same. This led us 
to speak of the deference with which some of the works of 
the ancients are regarded, far beyond what they really 
deserve. I mentioned my disappointment on first reading 
the Prometheus of JEschylus, after coming fresh from 
a description of its merits by one of those enthusiasts for 
antiquity, who spoke of the sublime conversation which 
Prometheus holds with the embodied elements of nature^ 
&c. &c. ; but I own the speeches of old Ocean (?) mounted 



-I 



Aprii^1819.] THOMAS MOOBE. 291 

upon his winged charger^ did not at all come up to the 
imagination which this description had excited in me. The 
untameable courage of Prometheus is admirable, and 
some touches of pathos in the chorus, recalling the 
difference of other times, when they had sung hymns 
around his bath and his bed, on the day of his marriage 
with the young Hesione, are beautiful ; but the allegory, 
in general, is most clumsily managed. Lord L. men- 
tioned the ludicrousness which the continual outcry of 
Philoctetes throws over that fine tragedy : exclamations 
from mental pain are all very well, but when one recollects 
that this continual ai at at is on account of a sore foot, it 
is impossible to feel any of the higher order of sympathy 
with it. I mentioned the ** Alcestis " of Euripides, and the 
sort of sarcastic squabble there is between Death and 
Apollo in the first act, quite inconsistent with the serious 
heroic. We agreed what havoc Voltaire would have 
made among these chef-d'oeuvres of antiquity, if, with his 
contempt of common prejudices, he had chosen to expose 
their absurdities ; but it was well he did not. Our ad- 
miration, in these cases, is become a sort of religion, and 
is connected with many noble associations, of which it would 
be a pity the world should be disenchanted. I said that 
probably the reason Voltaire did not attack the ancients 
with his ridicule, was that Terrasson and others had tried 
it against Homer, and having done it clumsily, brought 
the task into disrepute. Lord L. came to walk part of 
the way home with me. Fears the Catholic Question will 
rather lose than gain ground this session : talked of Burke, 
Fox, &c. coalitions. LordL. thinks the principle of 
coalitions not only just, but necessary in a free country, 
otherwise the Court might bear down everything before it 

Tlie same principle, he thinks, applies to party and to 

u 2 



292 DIABT OF [vEtat. 39. 

coalitions; a compromise and surrender of individual differ- 
ences of opinion for the attainment of one common object. 
Owned he might be biassed in speaking of the two great 
coalitions ; Mr. Fox with Lord Norths and Mr. Fox again 
with Lord Grenville, as the former was opposed to his 
father, and in the latter he himself was concerned : but to 
him it appeared that there were ground^ of justification for 
the latter which did not exist in the former, as Air. Fox, 
in the former case, coalesced with Lord North to defeat 
what was the result of all his own former efforts and 
measures, viz. peace ; whereas, in joining with Lord Gren- 
ville, he but pursued, in most instances, the same objects 
which he had contended for when in opposition. There is 
a great deal of truth in this : told him that one of Allen's 
arguments in defence of the first coalition was, that his 
father (Lord Shelbume) had become so rooted in the favour 
of the King, that nothing less could shake him. Lord L. 
said this was not at all true ; that, in the first place, it was 
evident the King would not like the maker of the peace; 
and, in the next place, he had proofs that the King actually 
intrigued against his father at that time, and, after professing 
to Lord Shelbume to approve the terms of the peace, wrote 
a letter to Lord Camden abusing them in the strongest man- 
ner, which letter Lord Camden took instantly and showed 
to Lord Shelbume, with a fairness of honourable feeling 
which of course his Majesty did not give him credit for. 
Talked of Burke ; agreed in enthusiastic admiration of his 
talents. Lord L. inclined to defend his latter docti-ines, 
and to look upon them as not so inconsistent with his 
former ones as they are generally represented ; particularly 
as there was nothing impeachable in his character through- 
out life, that could lead one to suspect him of interested 
motives in changing, though certainly his receiving the 



April, 1819.] THOMAS MOOBE. 293 

pension at the time was rather a suspicious coincidence. 
On my reminding him, however, of some circumstances in 
Burke*3 life, the monej he received from Lord Rocking- 
ham, &c &C., he seemed rather to surrender this favourable 
view of the matter. 

15th. Wrote some of " Sheridan :^ read some of Maurice's 
appendix to his " Suins of Babylon.** Received from the 
Longmans, Dodsley's and other collections of poems to 
select from for their ** Miscellany : " received also from 
Murray several volumes of the " Parliamentary Debates." 
Copied out the two songs I had written to send to Power. 

i6th and 17th. Reading the " Parliamentary Debates " 
and writing ^* Sheridan." Found some odd things in Mau- 
rice's book. Have a great mind to write a poem, the 
scene of which shall be laid in ancient Egypt : its monu- 
ments, its scenery, its religious symbols, all poetical : some 
humour too might be blended with their ludicrous objects ' 
of worship ; for instance, the two cities whose dissensions 
rose to such a height concerning the comparative merits of 
the divinities they worshipped; one of them adoring a dog,- 
and the other a pike ; much good satire might be made out 
of this. Read Bramston's ^*Axt of Politics" in Dodsley : 
some smart lines in this: — 

*« What dofiiiiot yield to Time's destroying hand ? 
Wlere's Troy ? and where's the Maypole in the Strand ? 
As if Paul's cupola were brought to bed, 
After hard labour, of a small pin's head." 

18th. Took my little bible to church with me, in order 
to search in it for a subject that would suit a fine trium- 
phant air of NoveUo's I have to put words to. Found an 
admirable one in Jeremiah, and wrote four lines during ser- 
vice — War against Babylon : much better employed than 
I should have been in listening to the drawling parson and 

•u 3 



294 DIABT OF [iBTAT. 39. 

snuffling clerk. Let nobody see me though^ having the pew 
to myself and the two little girls. Flew to the pianoforte 
when I came home, and finished the first verse before 
dinner: my delight when I hit off the line, ** Breaks like 
a thunder-cloud ; ^ it goes so happily to the music. This 
will^ I think, beat the ** Loud timbrel I " 

19th. Went to Chippenham with Phipps and Locke, to 
a dinner which the fonner gave to his troop of yeomajiry, 
all common farmers ; the only gentlemen ourselves and 
Gosset. A strange day : such tippling, and such speechi- 
fying. I proposed Lord Lansdowne's health, in a speech 
which but about three persons out of the fifty under- 
stood a syllable of: but such men like to be talked to 
unintelligibly; they take it as a tribute to their under- 
standings. Supped at Phipps's on our return, where we 
foimd Bessy. 

20th. Bead and wrote. In the evening called upon 
Phipps to arrange about our trip to Bath to-morrow. 

21st Went to Bath; Bessy, myself, the little fellow^ 
and the maid, in a hack-chaise, and the Phippses in their 
own ckrriage. Dined at the York House, and went in 
the evening to the theatre. Young in *^ Cassius : " got a 
wretched little private box, where we were almost suffo- 
cated, but moved to Lady Burdett's for the farce. Miss 
Tree sang my song of "Young Love lived once" very 
prettily, and was encored with great enthusiasm. Supped 
very merrily at the York House, and slept there. 

22nd. Walked about all day shopping : gave directions 
about the binding of my books at Upham's. Met the 
^iahop of Meath, and walked with him up and down 
Milsom Street, talking of Sheridan. Told me the story 
about the sermon : it was at a country-house of Sheridan's 
(forget the name of the place ; must inquire) : the com- 



April, 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 295 

pany there at the time, Tickell, Burgoyne, Mrs, Crewe, 
The subject given to Sheridan at dinner on the Saturday 
\>y O'Beirne, viz. " The abuse of riches." Sheridan absent 
at coffee and for the rest of the evening ; and O'Beime 
found the MS. by his bedside next morning neatly tied 
together with ribbon. An admirable discourse, he said, 
though with several strange references to Scripture ; such 
as, " It is easier, as Moses says, for a camel to pass through 
the eye of a needle," &c. &c. The person against whom 
the force of this sermon was directed was Child. O'Beime 
afterwards, to his astonishment, called to account by some 
£riends of his, for having given such offence to the Childs. 
Surgoyne then told him the trick Sheridan had put upon 
him. I mentioned to the Bishop that I often had doubts 
whether I should insert this anecdote, as it required much 
delicacy (towards him particularly) in the manner of re- 
lating it : he agreed it did so, but said it might still be 
managed. Told me then the writers in " The Englishman ;" 
Tickell (I think), Bichard Burke, and himself (the Bishop) 
wrote the three last papers, ^eridan edited it, but did 
not write* ; exactly reversing what ought to have been his 
department. Sheridan wrote some of the ^* Prettyma- 
niana:" the occasion of these squibs was an answer that 
Prettyman, as secretary of Pitt, gave to Wedgewood, who 
waited upon him from some association or committee of 
manufactures, and which answer Prettyman afterwards 
denied. Was sorry that I could not have more con- 
versation with the Bishop, and think it will be worth my 
while to go to Bath again to him. Met Crabbe toddling 
about the streets : who would suspect that he is the 
Crabbe ? Lunched at a pastrycook's, and left Bath at 
five o'clock, Phipps driving, and I on the box with him ; 

* "All wrong" (1824). 
V 4 



296 DIARY OP [iETAT. 39. 

the senranta in the hack-chaise. Founds on my arriyal at 
home, a letter from Toller, my proctor, inclosing copies of 
affidavits, &c. of the adverse party, and asking for in- 
structions how to proceed, as they seemed determined to 
press matters against me. The catastrophe, therefore^ is 
at hand. This saddened me a little, for I had almost 
forgotten the whole concern, and now it returns upon me 
darker than ever. Well, all is perhaps for the best. 

23rd. Large dinner at Phipps's. Company: the 
Hugheses, Lockes, Gossets, Grubb, &c. Sung in the 
evening ; afterwards danced to the pianoforte, and supped. 
Received Bowles's answer to Campbell: tells me in the 
note he left with it, that Lord Lansdowne considers his 
position indisputable ; and so I think it is. 

24th. A wet, gloomy day : my spirits of the same hue. 
Often do I wish I had a good cause to die in. Compared 
the Irish edition of " The School for Scandal,'^ with the 
MS. in my possession : find them, with but few and trifling 
exceptions, word for word alike, which confirms to me the 
story of Mrs. Lefanu's sale of the copy to Ryder. 

25tL Wrote and read a little; received part of a 
printed, but not yet published poem of the tiresome and 

indefatigable author of "— ," called " ," asking me 

modestly to furnish him with a sort of prologue to it. Sent 
out invitations to some of the neighbours to dine with us 
on Tuesday next. A letter from the eternal Miss — — , 
with equal modesty, telling me she has written an opera, 
and if I will give a few comic touches, to improve the 
characters of the servants, we can share the profits of its 
representation ! Hughes dined with us. 

26th. Looked over papers. 

27tL Phipps sent in the morning to say he would 
drive me over to Bath, if I liked it; the very thing I 



April, 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 297 

wanted. Went with him; delicious weather: met the 
Bishop of Meath in Pulteney Street. Unluckily he was 
engaged for the rest of the day, and was to leave Bath for 
Bristol next morning : had about an hour's conversation, 
however, with him. He seemed to have changed his mind 
with respect to the insertion of the anecdote about the 
sermon, on account of some conversation he had had with 
old Colonel Barry, who thought it would tell against the 
Bishop. What first brought Sheridan, he said, promi- 
nently forward in the concerns of the party, was the 
Regency, which he chiefly managed. Fox being then 
abroad. It was positively, he said. Sir Gilbert Elliot 
that wrote the Prince's letters on that occasion. Asked 
him with respect to the difference between, the Duke of 
Portland and Sheridan. Said the Duke had, upon his 
(O'Beime's) mentioning the matter to him, authorised hun 
to declare that he could not have said that he would not 
sit in the Cabinet with Sheridan, because there was never 
any wish or intention expressed of bringing Sheridan into 
it. S., on the second change of administration (Fox and 
North), had some expectation of being made Chancellor of 
the Exchequer, and accordingly shut himself up for three 
weeks to study figures, which he made himself thorough 
master of, though perfectly ignorant of the subject before. 
This accounts for his taking the financial line afterwards 
in his opposition to Pitt. Sheridan's great ambition was 
to be thought at the bottom of everything. The Bishop 
had found in a life of Dr. Clarke (I think) the following 
words, — ** She did command, because I would obey," and 
showed it to Sheridan as being the passage he had bor- 
rowed one of the lines at the end of the " School for 
Scandal" from. Sheridan was angry at the imputation. 
They used to annoy him about his plagiarisms from Wy- 



298 DIABT OF [ifiiAT. 39. 

cherlej^ till he ftt last swore he had never read a line c^ 
Wjcherlej. I rather think it was Lord J. TowDshend^ 
he sud^ wrote the Probationary Ode by Major Scott 
(Q. E. £•) ; he (the Bishop) wrote the one bj Mason ; 
Adiur wrote the Dedication to Sir Llojd KenjoiL All 
these things were got up at the '^ Esto Perpetua^" a 
dub held at Becket's. What gave rise to the '' RdOiad" 
was a sort of ^* smoking and fitting party^" made in the 
House of Commons to interrupt and annoy Burke, o£ 
which party BroUe was the chief promoter. Tickell (I 
think, he said) began the poem. Mrs. Sheridan was some- 
thing quite divine: the Bishop's phrase about her had 
always been, that she formed the connecting Enk between 
angel and woman. Sheridan hated Burke. Burke had 
fixed upon the Begum Chaise for himself, but on S. ex- 
pressing a wish for it, gave it up to him. Left the Bishop 
and went to Uipham's : found there Colonel Barry, and 
talked with him on the same subject. He said I had 
a most ticklish and perilous task to perform: it waa 
aU bristling over with difficulties, like a hedge-hog. 
Somebody showed him the passage in Beaumont and 
Fletcher, from which S. borrowed his description of Pi* 
zarro on the wreck, but he does not ranember where 
it is. Dined with the Fitzgeralds. Lady C. wrote 
a note to ask Miss Ogle (Sukey, sister of Sheridan's last 
wife) to come in the evening. Had some conversation 
with F. after dinner about Lord Moira. He mentioned 
the easiness with which his mind got over any annoyances. 
Often when Lady Charlotte has seen him return in the 
evening from Carlton House, evidently imhappy and 
mortified at scMnething that has occurred there, she used to 
lay a novel carelessly open on his table, which he was sure 
to take up, and in a few minutes Carlton House and aU 



April, 18190 THOMAS MOOBE. 299 

that had happened waa forgotten in the girlish delight and 
interest which he took in the story. Lady C. mentioned 
at dinner a pretty thought of a little girl about the Tri- 
nity. " Oh yes/' said she, " I understand it very well; 
there may be three candles in the room, and yet but one 
light." Miss Ogle came: we had much talk about her 
brother-in-law. Like all those of his friends or relatives I 
have met, full of enthusiasm about his memory, his fame, 
&c, and trusting that I shall do him ample justice (t. e. 
praise him through thick and thin). I mentioned with 
respect to the settlement he had made upon her sister, 
that I rather believed it was by getting the Linleys out 
of Drury Lane and taking possession of the private boxes 
he raised that money. She said she had always understood 
. that he had injured some persons, in order to make that 
settlement good, but whether it was the Linleys, or what 
were the particulars of the transaction, she did not know. 
He was fond, she sidd, of domestic parties, delighted in 
children, and was altogether, where his vanity or his pas- 
sions did not interfere, amiable and attracting. They 
however used, very often, to wish him dead, for her sister's 
sake, as they thought die might recover her health if she 
was rid of him. Went with the Fitzgeralds to an as- 
sembly at a Mrs. Bunbury's; met there, among others, 
Mrs. Richardson, mother of Lady Clare ; met also an old 
Halifax acquaintance of mine, the Baron de Rotten- 
burgh: his pretty Baroness not there. Slept at York 
House. 

28th. Breakfasted with the Fitzgeralds. Took me to 
call on Mrs. Piozzi ; a wonderful old lady ; &ces of other 
times seemed to crowd over her as she sat, — the Johnson's, 
Beynoldses, &c« &c. : though turned eighty, she has all 



300 DIART OP [^TAT. 39. 

the quickness and intelligence of a gay young woman* 
Went with the Fitcgeralds to the theatre to see Miss Tiee, 
and to tell her how much I was delighted with the manner 
in which she sung my song of ** Young Love lived once *' 
the other night: a neat Httle girl, and may be made an ad- 
mirable unger.* Sauntered about Bath ; saw and talked 
With Lord Thomond, &c &c. Arrived at home about 
eight o^clock, and Phipps and I dined off some sausages 
we had brought with us. Airs. P. had dined with Bessy* 

29tlL Wrote a few lines to an air of Kozeluch's for a 
Sacred Song. Bessy and I dined at Locke's ; we supped^ 
and did not get home till three o'clock. 

SOth. Walked to inquire after Mrs. Phipps, and rambled 
with him and her about their grounds. Our large dinner 
at home; all men. Company: Phipps, Locke, two 
Hugheses, Brabant* and Crowe. Crowe's simplicity very 
delightfuL 

May 1st. Employed in copying out two Sacred Songs 
for Power, " Babylon," and " Far, far away, bewild'iiDg 
world." 

2nd. Power arrived with his daughter Jane, who is to 
pass a week or ten days with Bessy. Dined at two o'clock, 
that Power might be time enough for the Calne coach, to 

* Nothing can be happier as a compliment than Mr. LuttrelKg 



" On thh Tree if m ■^jtHiiy In ■iiii I 

This Tree will return ber as good as die brings.** 

I do not know whether these verses are anywlwro published. The 
"Advice to Julia** is the longest, but to my mind the wont, of 
Mr. Luttreirs poems. The verses on Ampthill Park, and on Rogers's 
seat at Holland House, are full of ingenious thought and lively and 
happy expression. 



May, 1819.] THOMAS MOOKE, 301 

return again to town at night. Packed up for my own 
excursion to-morrow. 

3rd. Set off from Calne in the York House coach for 

town. Smattered a little theology with a clergyman, 

whom I at first took for a clothier, but who turned out to 

be a very deep-read ecclesiastic; a great advocate for 

Calvin : tells me that the " Thesaurus " of Suicer (of which 

I have lost a volume) is now very scarce, and sells at a 

very high price. Another of my companions turned out 

to be Sheddon, whose brother married a sister of Monk 

Lewis. Lewis died of the yellow fever, he said; very 

unwilling to die ; all the last day exclaiming every instant, 

" The suspense ! the suspense I " which the physician who 

attended him was doubtfuL whether he meant to allude to 

religious doubts, or the success of a medicine which he had 

taken, and on whose operation his life depended. Arrived 

in town at half- past seven. 

4th. Saw Corry, R. Power, and Beecher. Beecher 
made a very sensible speech last night on the Catholic 

(question. Walked about with Corry: called upon poor 
Perry, who is evidently dying. In talking of the reports 
of the debates, he said he could not make them long enough 
for those who spoke them, or short enough for those who 
read them. Went to my proctor, who thinks he can make 
out some plea to fight off the calamity for me a little while. 
Called upon the Longmans, who asked Corry and me to 
dinner, but he dines at Lord Famham's. Met and talked 
with Lord Lansdowne, Lord Forbes>Methuen, &c. Lord 
L. asked me to dine on Sunday next. Met Lord Clifford, 
who said he had heard from Lord Robert Seymour, that 
i Beecher's was an excellent speech : am delighted at this, 
for Beecher is a good, manly, sensible fellow. A good 
deal annoyed by different people about " Cribb." Carpenter 



302 DIABT OF [.£tat. 39. 



id, yerj triumphantly, that Richard Power had ordered 
him to leave it out in the splendid copy of all my works 
he was preparing for him. Dined at Longmans ; th^ are 
speculating already upon the purchase of poor Perry's 
paper, and had much talk with me as to whether I ^ould 
like to be editor with a share and salary. Bees and I 
went to Covent Grarden : ** Heart of Mid-Lothian," and a 
very amusing &rce, ** A Rowland for your Oliver.'* 

5th. Called upon Ridgway the publisher to ask him 
about Sheridan : told me that when he expostulated pretty 
strongly with S. on his keeping him so long dancing after 
lum for the copy of the ** Schod," S. said, ** The fi»ct is, 
Mr. R., I have been nineteen years endeavouring to satisfy 
my own taste in this play, and have not yet succeeded." 
*' After this," said R. to me, ^'I teased him for it no 
longer." Dined at Joy's chambers in the Temple. Com- 
pany : Bowles, Corry, Locke, and a General Brackenbury. 
Joy's dandy dinner of mutton chops, brought in one by 
one, **like angel vifflts, few and far between," highly 
amusing, except that we were all in a state of starvation. 
" Joy/' says Bowles, in a sort of reverie, ** I want — I 

want " "What do you want, my dear Bowles?" 

** D — it, I want something to eat." Went to Drury 
Lane : the play a new one and a bad one, — ^* A Cheque 
on my Banker." Supped with Corry at the Piazza. 

6th. Breakfasted with Refers, and went with him to 
see the exhibition of the Queen's things at Christie's. 
\^ Paid visits at Lords Damley, Jersey, Grey, Harrington, 
Tavistock, &c. Walked with George Ponsonby, and 
begged him, if he had an opportimity, to say to Lord 
Grey how much I should like to have a littie conversation 
with him about Sheridan. Met my old acquaintances 
Lord Clonmell, Lord Forbes, &c. &c. Met Wabh (the 



Mat, 1819*] THOMAS MOORE. 303 

musical Walsh)^ and asked Um about the occaedonal little 
piece of Sheridan's, in which he acted, and of which I 
found a sort of programme among the papers. It was 
called " The Glorious First of June ; " acted in '94 : very 
much liked, and ran thirty ni^ts. Sheridan gave the 
dialogue on scraps of paper out of the boxes during re- 
hearsal. The Duke of Clarence came to see that the little 
ships for the battle were correct. George Ponsonby came 
to me at five, to say that Lord Grey would be very glad 
to see me, with merely himself and Ponsonby, on Sunday 
next : must get off Lord Lansdowne's to go there. Dined 
•with Corry at Reddishs', and went to the Coburg Theatre. 
Tound a very kind note at home from Lady Holland, 
asking me to go to Holland House for some days, and 
saying it would be a visit of charity, as Lord H. was con- 
fined by the gout. 

7th. Received a letter from dearest Bess, with the 
intelligence that our little boy has cut two teeth since I 
left home. Looked about for lodgings for the Phippses. 
In going to call upon Lord King, saw Adair coming out 
of his house, and determined to introduce myself to him. 
His gloomy, rigid look while I explained myself to him 
(for he did not know me personally) turned at once into 
the kindest smiles when I mentioned my name: he in- 
sisted on my going back with him to his house, and in the 
course of a few minutes we were seated side by side in as 
confidential a conversation as if we had known each other 
for years. Hckell had a good deal of wit, but was a bad 
arguer. Whenever he found himself hard run in argu- 
ment with Richardson, he used to be^n to mimic Mr, Fox, 
and by the mere force of mimicry possess himself so much 
of the mind as well as manner of his original, that Richard- 
son declared he felt as if Mr. Fox was before him, and 



304 DIABT OP C^TAT. 39. 

became quite subdued by the new character that his aata* 
gonist aasiuned. The first circumstance that induced Mr. 
Fox to suspect Sheridan of want of principle^ was his going 
down to Newmarket as the Prince's advocate in the Jockey 
Club business. Sheridan never gamed. Another occadon 
on which Sheridan took a part displeasing to Fox^ was 
when Lord BoUe agitated the question of the Prince's 
marriage with Mrs. Fitzherbert Fox begged of the 
Prince to enable him to speak the truth on the subject ; 
and the Prince assured him there had been no marriage 
between them^ which Fox stated to the House ; but on 
Mrs, F. (who never spoke to Fox afterwards) expostulating 
with the Prince upon this exposure of her character^ his 
Royal Highness denied that he had ever authorised Fox to 
make such a declaration, and S. was employed to remove 
the impression on the public mind, by an equivocal sort of 
speech which he made afterwards in the House. Mr. Fox 
did not belong to the Friends of the People, and waa 
always against making Parliamentary Reform the main 
object or sine qua non of the party. Sheridan, too, kept 
clear of this society ; and other Foxites (among whom was 
Courtenay) took their names oflF when they found Fox did 
not approve of it. The course which Lord Grey took 
with respect to the Prince's debts was an obnoxious cir- 
cumstance ; and in general his high, incorrupt character in 
money matters made the Prince fear him as a Minister. 
Adair did not write the Dedication to Kenyon, nor any 
other part of the "Rolliad." Richardson told him that 
Tickell was the author of those four lines in the monody, 
*' Oh, proud distinction of the sacred lyre." Sheridan was not 
a ready man ; angry with the party for not bringing him 
into the Cabinet. Burke jealous of Fox's preference of S. 
to himself; but it was natural that Fox and Fitzpatrick 



1 



Hat, 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 305 

ehould prefer the gaiety and laxity of sUch a companion 
as S. to the austere character of Burke's life and conver- 
sation. Adair thinks that S. did not really mean to 
cheat people in money matters^ and that he always ima- 
gined he should be able to pay the debts he incurred ; but 
new embarrassments banished all thoughts of providing for 
the former ones out of his head. After leaving Adair^ I 
met Hammersley, with whom I had some conversation 
about S.'s financial concerns with his house. He promised 
to talk with me more fully on the subject some time^ but 
said partly what Adair did^ that he did not believe S. really 
meant to cheat people out of their money. 

Called upon that beautiful creature Lady Charlemont, 
and sat some time with her. Left a card at Lord Dun- 
more's. Met Horace Twiss^ who had called upon me 
twice to-day to ask me to assist in disposing of his tragedy r 
promised to attend the rehearsal for him to-morrow. Dined 
i at Rogers's to meet Grattan : company only he, I, Rogers, 
^ and his brother and sister. Grattan still very delightful. 
Spoke of old Sheridan ; he used to take the good speeches 
of other characters for his own. Thus, in " Romeo and 
Juliet," he used to speak Mercutio's speech, and read it, 
" Oh, then, I see Queen Mab has been with we." Agreed 
with me in preferring Burke to all orators. Rogers remarked 
that Burke had an advantage over others in having re- 
ported his own speeches. Another remark of his, when 
we spoke of Burke's wonderful display of knowledge, that 
a man who has not much taste often seems to know more 
than a man whose fastidiousness of taste restrains him from 
such an exhibition. Charles Sheridan's letter to Black- 
stone was in defence of Ireland against the claims of Eng- 
lish supremacy; and yet, when this very question was 
agitated in the House, C. Sheridan (who was brought in 

VOL. II. X 



306 DIABT OF [2E:tat.39. 

by Lord Moskeny) was one of eighteen who stood up for 
England against the independence <^ Ireland. Gxattan 
and I walked home together ; and stilly when I saw him to 
hia own door, he wonld insist upon seeing me to mine, so 
that we saw each other home fonr or fire times. Has a 
h^h cq»nion of Burke's integrity, and thinks the penaon 
was in consequence of his change, not the change in con- 
sequence of the pension. Begreta that he and Fox 
differed, as they might have been a check upon each other, 
and prevented the opposite extremes into which both fell; 
both of a nature to embrace whateyer cause they took up 
totaUy and ardently : Quicqnid vtdt, valde vuU. 

8th. Passed most of the day in wandering about with 
Phxpps looking for lodgings for them. Beceived a letter 
from Bome from Count Stendahl (?), the author of 
'^ UHiMtoire de la Pemture^ sending me a co{]y of his book, 
and praising abundantly '^Lalla Bookh" and ^^ Fudge 
Family." Dined with the Fhippses at Ibbetson's and went 
witlbthem to the Opera, where I had got Perry's box for 
tiiem. Wrote to Lord Lansdowne to beg him to excuse 
my dining with him to-morrow. 

9th. Breakfasted with Bogers, Maltby, and Crabbe. 
Sauntered about Called upon Lord Crewe, Sotheby, 
Crokerj^&c Took the Phippses to see my picture at 
Shee's ; they thought it very bad. Called at Lord Mel- 
bourne's; William Lamb just coming out of the door: 
walked with him for some time: he told me he had 
written a sketch of the earlier part of the political 
life cNf Sheridan, which he would give me to make 
what use I pleased of. Vanity the reigning passion 
of ^eridan; no corruptness as to pecuniary motives about 
him. Dined at Lord Grey's : the company. Lord Hut- 
chinson, Sir Bobert Wilson, the Ponsonbys, and the 



i 



Mat, 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 307 

m 

family. Conversation about the state of the Ministrj, the 
Bank question^ the Catholics^ &c. &c. It was not till 
we were near partings that Sheridan came into play. Lord 
Grey said he was the chief cause of the Prince's separating 
from them at the last B^ency ; and told me the scene 
that Lord Holland described about the Prince's showing 
to Sheridan the answer he (Lord Gr.) and Lord Ghrenyille 
had drawn up to be sent to the Address of the Houses^ — 
Sheridan altering it entirely^ and their protesting strongly 
against this sort of secret advising. The odd sort of manu^ 
facture that took place in S.'s speeches — Mrs. S., Stewart, 
Sead, Bichardson, &c. all making extracts, pasting on 
papers, &c. S. told Lady Asgill that it was he who in- 
Tented her beauty. Lord G. heard from !^chardson that it 
was Heyne, not Haydn, who was elected by the Institute. 
This slight upon S. a chief cause of his tirades against 
Bcmaparte and the French.* Sir Bobert Wilson and 
Lord Hutchinson wrote the letters for the Prince about 
the command in 1803 ; Sir B. W. the first. Lord G. 
said, to talk of making speeches quite extempore was all 
nonsense. Every young orator ought to prepare and 
write out his speeches ; not verbatim, but so as to know 
perfectly what he is about. S.'s great servility to the 
Prince. Lord H. said, no part of the Prince's conduct 
astonished him so much as his desertion of S., for he 
seemed to be really attached to him. 

10th. Dined alone at the George, and took the 
Phippses afterwards to the British Gallery, for which 
Lord Grey and Bogers gave me tickets. Went after- 
wards to Lady Jersey's ; every one there : a very civil 
bow from the Duke of Wellington. Lord Grey told me 

♦ For an explanation of this passage, see " Life of Sheridan," 8vo 

ed. Yol.ii. p. 303. 

X 2 



308 DIARY OF IJEtat. 39. 

the yenes I had mentioned of Sheridan's were a parody 
on Bome lines of Lord Rochester. Lady Cowper promised 
me a ticket for the next Ahnack's. William Lamb sent 
me his MS. 

11th. Went to see Mr. Fawkes's drawings; chiefly 
Turner's, and very beautiful Dined at Power's at four 
o'clock, to meet Bishop. He mentioned one curious mu- 
sical joke of Haydn's, who, in composing the command- 
ment, '' Thou shalt not steal," has, on the last word, stolen 
a passage from Martini. From thence to Astley's with 
the Fhippses. 

12 th. Got tickets for the Fhippses and Locke to see 
Lord Stafford's Gallery. Saw there the two Persians who 
have been studying in England sometime, and whose 
praises of ^' LaUa Bookh " I have so often been delighted 
to hear. Litroduced myself to them : one of them very 
agreeable and intelligent Missed my ticket for Almack's. 
Dined at the Wiltshire dinner, — Lord Lansdowne in the 
chair, and made a very tasteful speech in giving the health 
of the three Wiltshire poets, — Crabbe, Bowles, and my- 
self, all present I was called on to return thanks, and 
succeeded marvellously. Among other things, I said that, 
'' as far as a union by acts of friendship, — which, after all, 
was a more binding thing than a union by acts of parlia- 
ment, — could convert an Irishman into a Wiltshireman, 
I was in as fair a train of transformation as they could 
desire." Of Crabbe I said, that " the musa severior wluch 
he worships has had no influence whatever on the kindly 
dispositions of his heart ; but that while, with the eye of a 
sage and a poet, he looks into the darker region of human 
nature, he stands in its most genial sunshine himself." 

1 3th. Bessy and the little ones arrived : gave them up 
my lodgings, and took a bed at Rogers's. Went to Miller's 



Mat, 1819.] THOMAS MOOBE. 309 

"Wharf, to secure berths for them in the packet for Sunday. 
The price of a state cabin seven guineas ; but did not feel 
comfortable at the idea of their being all cribbed up in 
such a narrow space, and indulged in the extravagance of 
giving fourteen guineas for two cabins. Betumed home 
at four: took a hackney-coach, and went with Bessy to 
Homsey to visit the grave of our dearest Barbara. Her 
feelings seem to grow more quiet and reconciled on this 
subject. At eight o'clock she and I sauntered up and 
dawn the Burlington Arcade : then went and bought 
some prawns, and supped most snugly together. 

14th. Went with Bessy and Mrs. Phipps to Hodgkin- 
son's, to buy the wedding-dress and other things which I 
am sending as presents to Bessy's sister : from thence to 
other shops. The Phippses dined with us at my lodgings ; 
and in the evening we went, children and all, to the 
Coburg Theatre. 

15tli. Was asked to dine at Lord Jersey's and at 
Croker's, but sent apologies. Went with Bessy and 
Mrs. P. to see the wild beasts, and afterwards to the 
Exhibition. Mrs. P. dined with us, and in the evening 
we went with dear Anastasia to Astley's. 

16th (Sunday). Rose, after about an hour's sleep, at 
four o'clock, and by half-past four were in the hackney 
coach (which a porter of Longman's brought), on our way 
to Miller's Wharf. At a Uttle after six, my dear girl, with 
her two little ones, and Harriet our maid, sailed from the 
wharf, and I stopped till I saw the last glimpse of them. 
Breakfasted, on my return, at the London Coffeehouse ; 
then took a warm bath in Pall Mall ; the young lady of 
the house playing and singing my songs all the time, and 
her mother meeting me as I came out of the room, with 
an " Anacreon" in her hand, saying, *' Oh sir, are you the 

X 3 



310 DIABT OF [.£tat. 39. 

Mr. Moore whom I have been admiring these thousand 
years ? When will yon come to bathe again, sir ?" &e. &c. 
Drove with Mrs. Bennet and Mrs. P. to the Faric, and 
walked there. Dined at Lord Cowper's. Ck>mpan j : Lord 
. and Lady Duncannon, Lord A. Hamilton, the Cliffords, 
i William J jfanh and I ^y Carol ine, &c &c. B^ged of 
Captain Clifford to mention to Lord J<^ Townsheod (his 
father-in-law) my desire to have some conversation with 
him about Sheridan. Lady Cowper had seen the Fair 
Circassian; says she is something like Lady Ossulstcm; 
speaks no language that any about her understand, but is 
now beginning to learn a little EnglisL 

17th. Went to see Philipps's pictures with Richard 
Power. He is painting the subject of the Man and 
the Child in Paradise and the Peri (there is one in 
the Exhibition by Corbould £rom the same poem). The 
triumphant ascent of the Peri in Philipps's is very 
spiritedly done. From thence went to call upon Miss 
0*Neil, and was agreeably surprised by her sitting down 
to the harp and singing very sweetly and unaffectedly one 
of my songs. Dined alone at the Geoi^e, for the purpose 
of going to see her in " Mrs. Waller" with the Bennets 
and Phippses. 

18th. Breakfasted with Bogers, and walked about 
with him paying visits of the day. Went with Douglas 
Kinnaird to Burgess (S.'s solicitor), who says he wiU 
apply for an iojunction i^ainst the ^^ Life" unless there is 
some arrangement made with the &mily. Dined with 
Lord Hutchinson, Company : Lord D<Hioughmore, Lord 
Brandon, some young Hutchinsons, and Parson Este, who 
told a few things of Sheridan, but of no importance, — 
except indeed one, which was, that Burke, at the meeting 
upon Garrick's ^neral, suggested the thought of those 



-/ 



i 



May, 1819.] THOMAS MOOKE. 311 

lines in the monody which end ** And points the place,^ 
by saying, that whenever the burial of Garrick was c(»n- 
memorated, the position of Shakspeare's statae should 
not be forgotten. Lord Hutchinson is of opinion that it 
must be owing to some neglectfidness of S. that he wm 
latterly deserted by the Regent. 

19th. Received a note from Captain Clifford, to say 
thai; Lord J. Townshend would be most happy to see me, 
and give all the information about S. in his power. Went 
to the Exhibition with the Phippses. Dined at Holland 
House. Company: Lord Grey, Lord A. Hamilton, Mrs. 
Fox, Miss Fox, Sir J. Mackintosh, Tiemey, &c. Their 
mixture of the doleful and the humorous in their dis- 
course upon last night^s defeat in the House of Commons, 
very amusing. The censer flung round the room by 
Lady H.'s page after dinner seemed to astonish Murray 
the advocate, who had not, I suppose, seen the ceremony 
before; and I was myself a little astonished on hearing, 
as I came away, a very good male voice singing to the 
guitar, and finding that it was the butler who was ac- 
companying himself in an Italian air. By the bye, the 
incense burned after dinner here comes from a convent 
in Spain, which gets it from another establishment con- 
nected with it in the north of Persia. 

20th. Took the Phippses to see Rogers's house, and 
Philipp8*8 picture of the Peri. Afterwards saw the 
procession of the Persian ambassador to Carlton House. 
Dined at Sotheby's. Company : Bowles, Crabbe, Miss 
Joanna Baillie, William Spencer, &c. Spencer as usual 
very amusing. Told us that, in allusion to Lady Crewe^ 
they used to read the well-known line thus — " Crewe, ad- 
mit me of thy mirth." 

22st Called by appointment upon Lord John Town* 



312 DIABT OF [£tat.S9. 

shendy and had about an hour*8 talk concerning Sheridam 
Said S. wrote at least two of '^ The Englishman ; " that on 
Lord George Germaine and the first Fox wrote one; 
was not satisfied with its style, and S. corrected it for 
hioL Lord John read S.'s paper upon Lord G. Germaine 
to Gibbon at Deyonshire House, and he was much pleased 
with it. S.'s jealousy : Lord John and Fitzpatrick used 
to say, that he was jealous even of a pretty woman. 
Burke's admiration of the Begum Speech; that, Mr. Fox 
said, first proved to him his want of a pure taste. Lord 
John mentioned the following verse as S.'s in the lines, 
** Glenbervie, Glenbervie," which indeed, he smd, were 
almost all written off-hand by him : — 

" Johnnj Wilkes, Johnny Wilkes, 

Thou greatest of bilks, 
How changed are the notes you now sing ; 

Your fam'd Forty-five 

Is Prerogative, 
And your blasphemy, Grod save the king." 

Dined at Longman's; a literary dinner; Mackintosh, 
I Bowles, Colonel Wilkes, Sir James Smith (President of 
the Linnaean Society), Dr. Holland, &c. &c. A very agree- 
able day. Some good Latin poems of Jekyll's. Upon 
hearing that Logier taught thorough-bass in three lessons, 
he said it contradicted the old saying, *^ Nemo repente juit 

turpissimusJ" What Lord Ellenborough said to the 

barrister, upon his asking, in the midst of a most boring 
harangue, " Is it the pleasure of the Court that I should 

proceed with my statement ?" " Pleasure, Mr. , has 

been out of the question for a long time, but you may 
proceed," &c. &c. Sir James remarked very truly that 
shrewdness and wit were Sheridan's forte, not the higher 
kind of eloquence. We had some discussion as to how 
far Shakspeare borrowed that passage about the " cloud- 



Mat, 1819.] THOMAS MOOBE. 313 

capt towers" from Lord Sterling. The latter was pro- 
duced^ and the p^giarism is so remote, that Shakspeare 
need not even have seen it. Went afterwards to an 
assembly to meet the Fhippses. Two bishops and a 
Persian (my friend Giafer) in the room. 

22nd. Dined alone; and went to Covent (rarden in 
the evening. Saw Yates's mimicries; very good; his 
Matthews excellent. This is turning the tables on the 
great performers, as Tate Wilkinson did on Foote. 

23rd. Dined with Mackenzie, who was agent for ex- 
change of prisoners in France, and is now commissioner for 
settling British claims. Company: a Bussian Frince (whose 
vj name I forget). Lord William Bentinck, Captain Leigh 
(who had the adventure in the Fyramids), Sir Thomas 
Tyrwhit Jones Barker (Consul at Aleppo), Stratford 
Canning, Mr. Morier, &c. Sat between the two latter. 
Canning, an intelligent man: gave a ludicrous account 
of Lord Byron's insisting upon taking precedence of the 
corps diplomatique in a procession at Constantinople (when 
Canning was secretary), and upon Adair's refusing it, 
limping, with as much swagger as he could muster, up 
the hall, cocking a foreign military hat on his head. He 
found, however, he was wrong, and wrote a very frank 
letter acknowledging it, and offering to take his station 
anywhere. 

24th. Dined with Sogers ; in the evening to Covent 
Garden ; and supped with Corry and Power. The com- 
pany at Rogers's, the Bowleses, Rogers's two brothers and 
sister, &c. 

25th. Went to the Panorama. Drove with Frederick 
Byng in his gig off to the Park. Dined with a party in 
the One Tun Tavern in Jermyn Street,; Sir Francis 
Burdett, his son. Lord Rancliffe, Power, Beecher, and 



/ 



/ 



314 DIABT OF [.£tat.40. 

Coiry. Went to Ferrars's concert and ball at AknadE's; 
saw there the Duke of Welfington, the Moipeths^ Laoa- 
downes, &c. &c. Cony and I sopped together afterwards. 

26th. Dined with Brackenbnry, a friend of Jofs, oat " 
of town four miles. Met there my old Mend Bamewall 
(now Lord Trimlestown) who once wrote me a French 
poem afl if from the Invisible Girl, in which I recollect 
he summed up the catalogue of my mistresses thus — 
*' Mais Betsy, Rose, Iris, Hortense." Went to Almack's 
(the regular assembly) and staid till three in the morn- 
ing. Lord Morpeth said to me, *' You and I live at Al- 
mack's." 

27tlu Dined with Perry : the ccnnpany, Boswell (son 
to Bozzy,), Freeling of the Post Office, Bowles, &c &c. 
Went to an assembly at Lansdowne House. 

28th. Dined wilii Hume at his cottage at Hanwell, 
the dinner being in celebration of my birthday. Taken 
out by the Brigstocks, Mrs. B. being an excee^ngly 
pretty Biondina. Cannon (one of the Brent's chaplains) 
told some good stories of his master during dinner. 
" Alarming times; I receive some dreadful anonymous 
letters; don't I, Bloomfield? You remember that one 
which I didn't like to send to the Secretary of State, 
beginning, * You damned old fellow. 111 pull you out of 
the coach.'" Mentioned also the gracious answer sent by 
Blo(Hnfield to an application of Mrs. Murray's, to be 
allowed to remain in her (chambers : '^ Madam, His B. H. 
was most feelingly gracious in the expression of his 

decision, which was unfavourable to your request," 

&C. &c Hume had proposed a large laurel crown, which 
was imposed upon me after dinner. 

29th. Called upon Miss Costello, the young autihtoress 
that Bowles patronises ; rather a nice girl, ^e had sent 



Mat, 1819.] THOMAS MOOBE. 315 

me her poems the night before with a very flattering letter^ 
** first poet of the age," &c. &c. I drove down to Bishops- 
gate Street for the purpose of taking a stage to Sir J. 
■y Mackintosh's (within two miles of Ware). Mackintosh had 
written me a note on Thursday with instractions as to the 
route and conyeyance. The stages all full; walked to 
Enfield (a very pretty path between Edmonton and 
Enfield through the fields) ; took a chaise there and 
arrived at Mackintosh's a little before seven ; {bund a bige 
party just going to sit down to dinner, — Allen (Lady M.'s 
brother, married to a daughter of Lord R. Seymour) and 
JL his wife, Mr. and Mrs. Malthus, Mr. Le Bas, ' Miss 
Stewart (a pretty Irish girl). Miss Allen, &c. Sung a 
little in the evening. 

SOth* A good deal of conversation with Mackintosh, 
chiefly about Sheridan and the politics of his time* 
Wyndham said of S., it was not from want of fertility 
or quickness that he prepared so much, but an over-deare 
of polish and correctness. Sheridan was ignorant of 
almost every subject he had to handle, and manfully 
acknowledged it. He showed the great difierence there 
was between prudence and good sense; no one could 
advise others better. Fox said of the florid parts of S.'8 
speech, " I don't Uke these things, except in Burke, — 
they are natural to him.'' Mackintosh defends coalitions 
warmly, and is certainly right as to the general prin- 
ciple> though some of the particular instances have been 
unlucky. The eighteenth century full of coalitions ; the 
Bevidution brought about by a coalition; Lord Chat- 
ham's coalition with the Duke of Newcastle, which 
turned out so prosperously. I mentioned, as one of the 
discreditable and unfortunate coalitions, &at of Mr. 
Pulteney, in 1741, though this was between Whigs and 



316 DIAKT OP [^TAT.40. 

Whigs. M. Bcdd that^ unless coalitions were allowed^ we 
must submit for ever to a standing Court Ministry ; and 
the Opposition must become merely a sort of Tribuni- 
tian Band, who, being unchecked by those hopes of suc- 
ceeding to power, which at present moderate the temper 
of their opposition, and prevent them from committing 
themselves to rash opinions or impracticable measures, 
would run into all sorts of violence, and produce such 
shocks as would at last ruin the constitution. Mr. Pitt, 
he said, had himself been in negotiation for a coalition 
with Lord North, though he afterwards condemned Fox so 
much for forming it. Fox, too, was in treaty with Lord 
Shelbume before he coalesced with Lord North; but 
though he had more points of contact in politics with the 
former, he disliked the man; whereas, though differing 
so much with Lord North in public, he had a strong 
regard and sympathy for his private character ; so that, 
while he incurred the charge of inconsistency in joining 
with Lord North, he would have sacrificed every private 
feeling in coalescing with Lord Shelbume. It is said 
Sheridan was against the India BilL Mr. Burke's speech 
upon conciliation with the colonies one of his best ; was 
well listened to during the American war. This contradicts 
what Lord Erskine says in the preface to " Fox's Speeches." 
Mr. Fox used to ask of a speech, ** Does it read well ?'* 
** Yes." ** Then it was not a good speech." The King's 
duplicity throughout his whole reign. The Grenvilles 

'-^j have an hereditary dislike to him. A few Whig families 
are our only security for thie constitution. The Duke of 
Devonshire might better bum Chatsworth to the ground 
than forfeit one of his hereditary pledges to the Whigs. 

- I The political economists quite a new school. Has heard 
Fox say, talking of finance, *^ You know. Grey, you and 



Mat, 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 317 

I don't mind these things." The leaders of this school at 
present^ Lords Grenville^ King, Lansdowne, &c. Burke's 
pension was not coincident with his apostasy, but three 
or four years afterwards : nothing wrong about Burke's 
paymastership. Sayings of Madame de Stael: — Of the 
scene at Richmond she said, it was ^^ Calme et animee, ce 
guHlfaut itrCy et ce queje ne suis pas.^ Praised Barrow's 
first sermon. We read over together Dryden's *' Epistle 
on Painting ;" the famous passage in Hooker, about law. 

31st. Mackintosh, who seemed yesterday to think that 

I must hold a veil up before Sheridan's criminalities, told 

me this morning he had been thinking of the subject the 

greater part of the night, and had come to the decision^ 

that I ought to do no such thing : it would be unjust to 

my own character and to the world; and that I ought 

(as, he owned, I seemed well inclined to do) to tellthe truth, 

and nothing but the trutL He and Allen walked with 

me to Ware. The former mentioned a whimsical joke of 

Stewart Rose's — " that he had learned from Lord Byron's 

poetry that two bulls make a nightingale" (bulbul). We 

had a good deal of laughing at an Irishman who was of our 

party, on account of a bull he had made at breakfast, 

and which we called " half a nightingale," — a sort of 

" spatch-cock nightingale." Arrived in town just in time 

to dress for dinner, at Pearse's the Bank director and 

M. P. for Devizes, who made a speech the other nighl^ 

against the Report. Odd enough, I was asked also 

to dine to-day with Lord King ; so I had the two cx- 

tremes of the Bank Question on my list. Company at 

Pearse's, Duke of Dorset, Lord Clinton, Mr. and Mrs. 

Long Wellesley, &c. &c. An assembly there in the 

evening; re-presented to Miss Addington, whom I had 

met before one morning at Lady Donegal's* and had 



318 DIABT OF [£tat.40. 



flmcfa ooQTenatioii with her^ to the astonisfaqaent oi some 
Sidmouthites from my neighbourhood. Mrs. Frere sang, 
and the Misa Pearaes plajed ; but on my being adced, 
bolted, the oompany being too large. 

June Ist. Called on Lady Malcolm (the wife of the 
Indian hero), to whose house I went the other day with 
Mrs. ThoiQaa.. Sheridan, but she was not at home. By 
the bye, during that walk I took with Mrs. Sheridan, she 
told me there was another {dace, besides the registrarship 
of Malta, which S. had made Tom refuse. She spoke 
kindly of S. and of his good-nature, when no object of his 
own interfered : owned also that, under the alarm of any 
pressure or inconyenienee from the want of money, he 
would not hesitate at any means of procuring it. Found 
Lady Malcolm at home to-day, and introduced myself. 
She played for me the Persian air which Mrs. S. t(dd me 
of, and some others, rather pretty. Went from her to the 
Duchess oi Sussex, whom, with her beautiful daughter, I 
met on the 24th at Miss White's assembly (where, by the 
by, a little prl acted in a French praverbe who was 
found amidst the conflagration <^ Moscow, quite an infant, 
and not known whether French or Busdian ; now seven 
years old, and acted very archly). This daughter of the 
Duke of Sussex, by Lady A. Murray, a very fine crea- 
ture. They call her the Princess Emma among themselves, 
but her general designation is Mademoiselle d'Este. Sat 
for near two hours i;idth her, and sung a good deal ; never 
saw a more enthusiastic person about music. They asked 
me to dine next Tuesday. Dinner at Lord Crewe's: 
company, Luttrell, Bogers, the CunlifFes, &c. Lord 
Crewe said he had a letter frcmi Sheridan to Mrs. Gre- 
ville, prefixed as a sort of dedication to aome MS. book of 
poems, which he would let me see. Luttrell very comical 



^■ 



Jinn,18I9.] THOMAA MOOBE. 319 

about the coobed hats in the orchestra at Yauxhall^ which 
looked^ he said, as if they were the last of their race, the 
ttlthna ccelesium • • • Astrcea, leaying the earth and half- 
coming to heaven. I sung in the evening, and Mrs. Cun- 
liffe sung a song of Lewis's, '' I am not mad, I am not 
mad,'' without accompaniment. The energy with which 
die gives these songs is sometimes rather painful; but 
they have great effect. I have seen numbers in tears at 
her ballad, *^ It was a winter's evening." She and Cun- 
liffe invited me very earnestly to their seat in Wales. All 
went to an assembly at Sotheby's in the evening. 

2nd. Called at Longman's, and ccMisulted them as to 
what I should do with respect to Murray; who, in a 
late conversation I had with him, said it was to me 
the creditors would legally look, as it was to me those 
papers that formed the prc^erty on which their claims 
were founded, had been given by Charles Sheridan. This, 
though it did not occur to me before, appears to be the 
real state of the case. I told the Longmans that what I 
wished was to propose to Murray one of the two following 
measures : either he must guarantee me against these 
claims of the creditors, in which case I would proceed with 
the ** Life " on our present terms ; or if not, I would re- 
fund the money I had already drawn for on account (460/.), 
and give up the whole concern. The Longmans approved 
of thip plan, and professed themselves ready to honour my 
draft for the 460/. Met there Campbell the poet, and 
walked with him to a little bedroom he has taken in 
St. Paul's Churchyard, in order to consult medical advice 
about a complaint he has. He accompanied me afterwards 
to call upon Kichard Power^ who was waiting for me to 
go to Miss Stephens (the singer), and we all three pro- 
ceeded together to her house. On the way I met Lord 



320 DIABT OF [£TAT.4a. 1^ 

Dunmore> and introduced Campbell to liim. Miss Stephens^ 
who lives in a pretty, light, flowery-looking house, quite 
worthy of her, sung ** Donald " for us ; and I sung two 
or three songs in return. It was the first time Campbell 
had heard me, and he seemed much pleased. He asked 
me with much warmth for a song (which I recollect bis 
praising before in very warm terms), ** Oh, had we some 
bright little isle of our own," in the *^ Irish Melodies;" 
but the air is not fit for the words, and I never sing it. 
In walking home Campbell said to me, he thought still 
more highly of my style of song-writing since he heard 
me sing. We talked of Lord Byron. He said he was 
a *' fallen angel ; " then added, with a smile, ^^ and broke 
his foot in falling,'' alluding to Lord B.'s lameness. Dined 
at Horace Twiss's, in Chancery Lane : an odd dinner, in 
a borrowed room, with champagne, pewter spoons, and 
old Lady Cork. The company, besides her ladyship, 
William Spencer, Lord Petersham, Colonel Berkeley, 
Nugent, Kean the actor, and one or two more. Sat next 
Nugent. He told me of a woman in Paris saying, when 
he asked why she called the Napoleons (coins) Louis, 
'^ Mais Monsieur, c^est une douce habitude^ que nous sommes 
bien aises de reprendreJ* One of Louis's courtiers said, at 
the time when Napoleon was advancing in that magnificent 
manner from Elba, '^ Ce quHl y a ^affreux dans tout cela 
c^est que ga est superhe.^ Went up to coiFee, and found 
Mrs. Siddons, who was cold and queen-like to me. From 
thence, about twelve, to an assembly at Mrs. Phillips's, 
where I saw Mrs. Siddons again. Discovered the reason 
of her coldness : I had not gone to a party she had invited 
me to; and, by a mistake, she did not hear of a visit 
I had paid her a day or two after. All right again ! By 
the by, Campbell had told me in the morning, as a very 



^ONB, 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 321 

characteristic trait of Sheridan^ that after his death there 
was found an immense heap of letters, which he had taken 
charge of to frank^ from poor husbands to wlves^ fathers 
to cliildren, &c. &c. 

3rd. Attended a meeting of the stewards of Bums's 

dinner (the object of which is to aid the subscription for a 

monument to him), and found all Scotchmen there. In 

settling the airs to be played after the toasts, I proposed 

after the citj of Edinburgh to have *^ I'll gae nae mair to 

yon town," which allusion to the unwillingness of the 

Scotch to return northward did not seem to be much 

relished. I found I had been more active than any of 

the stewards, except the originator of the business, Mr. 

Forbes Mitchell. Dined with my good friend Admiral 

Douglas and his pretty little wife, and went with them in 

the evening to Miss O'Neil's benefit. 

4th. Walked with Richard Power and Corry to 

Alsop's Buildings, Baker Street, and saw some paintings 

by Martin; most remarkable works, particularly one on 

the subject of Joshua bidding the sun stand still. He 

means to paint a subject from " Lnlla Rookh." Called upon 

I Hunt (the " Examiner") who lives in the neighbourhood. 

A literary dinner at Longmans'. Dr. Whitaker (who 

j published an edition, or rather a reprint, of ^* Pierse 

I Plowman"), Dr. Hewlett, Captain Ross of arctic renown, 

Daniel the painter, &c. &c. Went to a dance at Tegart's, 

I and staid till three in the morning. Danced with a pretty 

Hebe of a girl. Miss Wilson, who caught my fancy for 

the time exceedingly. Apropos to dancing with pretty 

girls, I have had two or three letters from my own 

pretty girl, who is safe in Edinburgh, and delighted to see 

once more her mother and sisters, 

VOL. II. T 



322 DIABT OF IJEtat. 40. 

Sth. To-dny our Boms's dinner. Had great difficulty 
in arranging my party^ as I had only seyen seats allowed 
me at the Duke's table, and my friends were Power, 
Beecher, Corry, Sir F. Burdett, Tegart, Phillips the 
painter, Brownlow, Murray the bookseller, Crabbe the 
poet, and Joy. Put down some of them to a lower table. 
Murray, one of them, not at all pleased ; came to me, and 
said that his object in coming was merely the pleasure of 
enjoying my company, and as' it was rather inconvenient 
to him to stay, he would leave me a draft for his donation 
(ten guineas) and be off. This would not do, so I pro- 
moted him to the t(^ table. Phillips, too, very cross ; 
but what could I do ? Seated Crabbe next myself. The 
Duke of Sussex's speech was good, and full of golden sen- 
tences (for a Prince) about liberty. Sir J. Mackintosh 
very eloquent, but rather too much of it, and heavy and 
round-about My reception most flattering; my name 
was never mentioned (and it was often by the speakers} 
without bringing applause ; and when I rose to speak, the 
people crowded from their seats towards my table. At 
every sentence I was interrupted by plaudits: my own 
countrymen never received me with more enthusiasm. 1 
was glad too to have two or three of them by, to witness 
and enjoy it, as they did most thoroughly. Bums's son 
was brought forward, and spoke sensibly: very like the 
father to judge by the engravings, and worthy of him in 
the manly sentiments he expressed about politics; too 
manly and free, poor fellow, for his advancement as a 
placeman. Power, Corry, Brownlow, and I adjourned to 
the Piazza and supped : poor Corry so bewildered with 
drinking bumpers to me and " the honour of old Ireland," 
that he could not walk home. By the by, there were 
about 350. Scotchmen at the dinner; and the donations of 



JUKS, 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 323 

my party made more than a fourth of the subscriptions at 
table. 

6th. Breakfasted with Meerza Jiafer Jabeeb : showed 
me some curious Persian MSS. A Mr. Shakspeare 
there^ a good oriental scholar. Jiafer is to take a diploma 
of doctor at Oxford this month. Went from thence to 
Rc^ers's. Crabbe had been with him, maintaining (in 
talkiiig of the dinner of yesterday) that Murray deserved 
a higher place than Phillips the artist and royal aca- 
demician, because he kept his carriage ! This is incon- 
ceivable. I had bid Mackintosh tell Lady Holland I 
should go out to dine to-day if she would let me ; so I 
went. The company, only Lord John Bussell, Mackin- 
tosh, Allen, young Charles Fox, and myself. Allen 
mentioned that one of the things which brought Bums 
into disgrace with his excise masters was a toast which he 
gave, "Here's the last verse of the last chapter of the 
last book of Bangs." He was also accused of having 
called for Ca Ira at the Dumfries theatre. In the middle 
of dinner Lady H. said to me : "I hope you mean to sleep 
here to-night ; you are never agreeable when you are on 
the wing for your Lady Corks, &c. ; you havVt the esprit 
prhentJ*^ I said " Yes," of course ; and a man and horse 
were dispatched for my things, her ladyship promising that 
I should have the prettiest bedroom in the house. Talked 
of Mazeppa, the name Lord B. has given to his hero 
instead of Don Juan. Looked over the account of Ma- 
zeppa in Le Clerc's " Russia." He was, as a punishment, 
tied on a wild horse, and run away with into the Ukraine ; 
but his adventures have nothing to do with Lord B.'s hero. 
Allen showed me a fine story of Amurath in ** Wanley's 
Wonders," taken firom Knolles. Something might be 
made of it in poetry. I pointed out to Lord Holland and 

T 2 



324 DIARY OF [JEtat.40. 

the rest a passage from Busbequius that struck me as 
romantic ; where he describes the soldiers singing a song^ 
supposed to be uttered by a dying warrior on the riiver's 
bank, addressing the riyer as it flows by, and bidding it 
hasten to tell his mistress how gallantly he had died. 
They did not seem to think anything of it ; but if I had 
mentioned (what was really the case) that it was Lord 
Byron who first pointed it out to me, they would have 
been sure to have found out all possible beauty in it, — 
such is the prestige of a name ! In talking as to whether 
Lady Byron really loved Lord Byron, Lady H. seemed to 
think she must. ** He was such a loveable person. I 
remember him (said she) sitting there, with that light upon 
him, looking so beautiful ! " My bedroom was, as she had 
promised, the prettiest thing that could be imagined, one 
of those lately fitted up ; and I heard the nightingales 
singing the greater part of the night. 

7 th. The good lady at my lodgings had sent me no 
proper toilette for the morning ; so I ordered a hackney- 
coach from Kensington and made my way into town, 
leaving a valedictory note for Lady H. Went to the 
theatre to try and get a dress for Lady Damley's fancy- 
ball in the evening. Connor (the Irish actor) took me to 
his house and provided me with an old English or Spanish, 
dress (old in every sense of the word) which his wife had 
worn in "Floranthe." Heard a few sweet notes from 
Miss Stephens, who was rehearsing. Was to have dined 
at Lord Dunmore's, but sent an excuse in order to go 
early to the Philharmonic, having had a ticket sent me by 
the directors. Dined at a coffee-house, but did not get 
to the Philharmonic tiU the first act was over. Saw 
Braham there, who took me aside, and proposed that I 
should write words to some fantasias, or wild melodies of 



June, 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 325 

his, SO as ^ to make scenas of them, and that we should 
publish them together; but my mentioning that I was 
bound to Power put an end to the idea, as he is bound 
to the new Musical Institution. Met the pretty young 
bride, Mrs. (Longman's daughter), and her hus- 
band, and sat by her during the concert. Went home 
to dress for Lady Darnley's at eleven, and what with 
stitching and pai;ching was not ready to join the party 
from Power's till half-past twelve. The ball a most beau- 
tiful spectacle, but I had left my glass at home ; besides, 
I was rather ashamed of my dress ; and the little girl at 
my lodgings had stitched my stockings to the trunks so ill, 
that they came asunder, and threatened every minute to 
make a Highlander of me. To add to my annoyance, the 
Duke of Sussex, when I was hiding snug behind a pillar, 
took me by the hand, and drawing me forth into the full 
light of the room, said, " Come, let us look at you ; why, 
you're very smart." His daughter was leaning on his arm ; 
the first time he has appeared with her in public. Her 
dress, a Mary Queen of Scots, most becoming to her. 
Left the ball soon. 

8th. The " Morning Post*' kind enough to tell me wnat 
I was last night (which I did not know myself), and an- 
nounces me as having been in the character of a court page 
in the reign of Henry VIIL Threatened with invasion 
in my bed by Joy, to whom I had lialf promised to go to 
Ascot races to-day and dine at Brigstock's. Obliged to 
fiy from bed and home, unshaved, untoileted, and take 
refuge in a coffee-house near. But he watched like a 
bailiff for me, and when, after having fled into the city, 
and done some little businesses there, I was returning 
home in fancied security about five o'clock, I saw his gig 
still drawn up, but within two doors of my lodgings, he 

T 3 



326 DIARY OF [-fiTAT.40. 

hftTing said to the girl^ ^ I am afraid the gig frightens 
him awav." This is, to be sure, qiiite the perfection of 
boring. Dined at Rogers's, by my own inidtation : the 
company, a Mr. Hibbert and his daughters, Luttrell, Sharpe, 
and Miss Rogers. The dinner most excellent. Luttrell 
told us about Hare, describing Tarleton, on some occasion 
when there was a mob collected round Devonshire House^ 
saying to them, ** My good fellows, if you grow riotous, I 
shall really be obliged to talk to you.^ " Upon which (said 
Hare) they dispersed immediately." We went in the 
evening to Mrs. Chinnery's, where I heard Viotti, Ashley, 
&c., play a beautifrd quintett of Boccherini's, full of sweet 
melody. The Demoiselles Liker sung too. Lady Dun- 
more asked me, should I like to go to see the charity chil- 
dren at St. Paul's on Thursday, if she could get me a ticket. 
9th. Met Bishop by appointment at Power's, in order 
for him to look over the National Melodies I have done^ 
and take my ideas as to their arrangement. This being 
our first time of working together, I felt rather nervous ; 
but he appears everything I could wish ; intelligent, ac- 
commodating, and quick at understanding my wishes upon 
the subject. One thing flattered me a good deal : among 
the airs I produced to him, I had stolen in one of my own^ 
under the disguise of a Swedish air. It was the last I 
brought forward, and he had scarcely played two bars of 
it when he exclaimed ** Delicious 1 " and when he finished 
it said, " This is the sweetest air you have selected yet." I 
could not help telling him the truth about it ; and, indeed, 
I doubt very much whether I shall go on with the impos- 
ture by introducing it into the collection. If I do, I shall 
call it a Moorish air. Dined with Corry, and went to a 
wretched exhibition at Drury Lane for the benefit of 
a Mr. Lanza. 



i 



JUK£, 1819.] THOMAS MOOBE. 327 

lOtL Went with the Dunmores and Lady Ann Ha- 
milton to St. Paul 8 : a most interesting spectacle ; near 
12,000 children assembled in that grand church. Nothing 
could be more striking than their all^ at the same moment, 
rising and veiling their faces with their aprons at the first 
sound of the organ and at the Benediction. We were in 
the liord Mayor's seat, as were also Lord and Lady Darn- 
ley, &c. ; but afterwards we went to the organ-loft, from 
which the coup d'ceil was most beautiful. Lady Dunmore 
was in tears during the Coronation Anthem. Dined at 
Lady Cork's. Company : Lord and Lady Bessborough, 
William and Lady Caroline Lamb, Jekyll, Mr. and 
Mrs. Villiers, and Miss White. JekyU said, that some one 
being asked how Lord Glenbervie felt on seeing his son 
join the ranks of opposition, answered, *^ Why, something 
like a hen when she sees a young duckling she has hatched 
take to the water." In the evening the Duchess of Sussex 
and her daughter came, the latter, at Lady Cork's request, 
in the dress she wore at Lady Damley's. A good deal of 
singing by Mrs. Friere, myself, and Mrs. Cunliffe. From 
thence I went to Lady Grey's ball, which is always of the 
best kind, and stayed till between two and three. Lord 
Grey himself was there, after having made a splendid 
speech of two hours on the Transubstantiation question. 
Had some talk with Lord Lansdowne, Lady Jersey, &c. 

11th. Sat for two hours to Phillips, who proposed to 
paint a copy of this picture for Mrs. Moore, on condition 
I would give him a set of my works. Most gladly agreed 
to the bargain. Went to my proctor, who gave me 
somewhat a better account of the state of my Bermuda 
affairs. Dined at ■ ; a large party of God knows 

who ; but all the women seemed selected as foils to his 
pretty wife. Smith of the "Rejected Addresses" one of 

T 4 



328 DIABT OP [-Etat. 40, 

the p^rty, and was rather amusing at dinner. Mentioned 
a good idea some one gave of poor Skeffington with his 
antiquity^ his rouge^ &c. &C.9 that ^' he was an admirable 
specimen of the florid Gothic.'* Denied being the author 
of the riddle about tlie looking-gkss* Had never heard it 
before^ but mentioned one of his own : " How would you 
spell the Archipelago with three letters ? — JEgean Sea^ 
t. e. e, g, and c." A large party in the evening. Much 
agidnst my will^ I sung. Smith gave some of his conaic 
^/ songs, which are excellent. 

12tL Set out at six for Calne in the White Lion 
coach : full. One of the passengers a pretty girl going 
alone to Bath. Found her to be a Miss Maxwell^ cousin 
to Sir MuiTay. She had been travelling in Italy and 
France for two years : a very pleasing giiL Told her who 
I was before we parted, and she asked me to call upon her. 
Had just read '^ Lalla Kookh " through, and looked her 
praises of it. Have seldom got over twelve hours of 
travelling more agreeably. Walked from Calne home. 
My cottage looking very sunny, but very solitary. 

13th. Brought up the arrears of this journal. Have 
forgot to mention a visit I paid to Holland House one 
morning. Lord H. had just finished ** Lalla Rookh." My 
lady said she had two objections to reading it : in the first 
place, it was Eastern ; and, in the second place, it was in 
quarto. I told her the latter objection had been removed 
for near two years past. ' Poets, inclined to a plethora of 
vanity, would find a dose of Lady Holland now and then 
very good for their complaint. Rogers told me Lord H. 
was very much pleased with *' Lalla; " liked the prose too, 
and Fadladeen. Lord H. mentioned this day, as a proof 
of the improvement of property in France since the Revo- 
lution, that the Duke of Richmond's estate of D' Aubigny, 



June, 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 329 

which before that event was 1200/. a year (800/. of which 
being from seignorial rights was, of course, swept away by 
their abolition), now brought him in 1500/. Lady Holland 
took Rogers and me into town in her carriage. Another 
thing I forgot is my having read the proof sheets of the 
second canto of **Don Juan" at Murray's. This poem 
will make a great sensation. Young Haidee is the very 
concentrated essence of voluptuousness, and will set all 
the women wild. There are also some unmanly allusions 
to Lady Byron through the poem, which her sex will, I 
think, arm against. Murray showed me a letter which Lord 
B. has written him, which is to me unaccountable, except 
from the most ungovernable vanity. He there details to 
him (to Murray the bookseller, a person so out of his 
caste, and to whom he writes formally, beginning, " Dear 
sir ") the details of an intrigue, in which he says he is at 
this moment actually engaged with a Venetian girl, " the 
daughter of one of their noblemen," whose name is Ange- 
lina, and whose age is eighteen, &c. &c. ; entering into 
euch details as it would be dishonourable to communicate 
even to the most confidential friend, and thus completely 
identifying the poor girl (if, indeed, any such girl exists), 
for the edification of Mr. Murray and all the visitors of 
his shop, to whom it is, of course, intended he shall read 
the gazette of my lord's last Venetian victory. This is 
really too gross. In the same spirit is the drawing (ex- 
hibited in Harlowe's Collection, Pall Mall) of a Venetian 
woman, with a note under it in Lord Byron's own hand- 
writing, saying that it was a likeness of ^^Marguerita" (I 
forget the other name), done at Venice, at the request of 
G. G. Byron, &c. &c. Dined alone. 

17th. Dined with the Hugheses. During these days 
did little but write letters. Bead over again Burke's 



330 DIABT OF IJEHAT.AO. 

admirable speeches on Conciliatioii with the Colonies and 
the Nabob of Arcot^s debts. Happened to read at the 
same time Canning's own report of his late speech on the 
vote of thanks to the Indian army. How weak and 
jejune in comparison ! 

19th. Went into Devizes to dine^th the Salmons. 
Read before dinner the trial of Sir Walter Saleigh in 
Howell. Sir Edward Coke's conduct unpardonable. His 
abuse of Baleigh actual Billingsgate. Slept at Salmons'. 

20th. Dined at home. This last week have written 
words to a Scottish air, '^ Peace be around thee;" and 
to a Portuguese air, ^'Whisperings heard by wakefiil 
maids." 

21st. Began a little allegory about Common Sense 
and Genius to a French air, '^ Le Bonheur.'' Have 
been turning in my mind an '^ opus magnum," in the 
poetical way ; the story placed first in Egypt, and then 
in Greece, in the first or second century of Christi- 
anity; my hero, a young Epicurean philosopher; my 
heroine, an enthusiastic girl who becomes a Christian, and 
at last, a martyr. It is very much the same outline as 
my *' Philosophy of Pleasure ; " but how much better 
could I fill it up now, while my fancy is as much alive as 
ever, and my taste and judgment improved I 

25th. Dined at Phipps's. Had adapted in the morning 
some words I wrote some time ago, '^ Oh no, not even 
when first we loved," to an air, said to be Caahmerian. 
Wrote to take a place for Sunday (the day after to-morrow) 
to town, as I expect Bessy on her return from Edinbui^h 
next week, having sent her the supplies for her journey on 
Wednesday last. The dear girl asked but for fifteen 
pounds, and I sent her thirty. 

26th. Walked into Devizes; rather at my wit's end 



^ 



June, 1819.] THOMAS MOOBE. 331 

for money. Branlgan announced to me in a letter I had 
from him last week^ that he had ordered his partners in 
London to send me a bank post-bill for 50^ to de&ay the 
expenses of his little girl^ which have not yet come to half 
the smn ; but it is very convenient just now. No tidings 
of it. Drew upon Power for 50L 

27th. Gaye up my ordered place in the coach^ and 
resolved to stay till to-morrow. Dined at the Macdonalds'; 
Mrs. P., too^ dined there. Had in the morning begun a 
song to a Spanish air, " Speed to the Battle." Received 
the 50L from B.'s partners. 

28th. Set off in the York House coach for town. A 
lady in the coach, who, I suspect, was a teacher of music. 
On my mentioning, in the course of conversation, that I 
had heard Miss O'Neil sing one morning lately, she asked, 
** Was it one of Moore's * Irish Melodies ' she sung?" I 
said '' Yes." *' ^Vhich of them ? " « One that, I believe, 
is called ' Love's Young Dream ! ' " pid not avow myself, 
though we were alone the greater part of the way. Dined 
at the George at eight o'clock. 

29th. Called at Power's, at Shee's the painter, and at 
Douglas's: the latter asked me to dine. Called also at 
Murray's. Has given Lord Byron 2000/. for " Mazeppa ; " 
** I>on Juan " to be the make-weight. What a trick he 
has played upon the public about '^Mazeppa," leading 
them to suppose it was the long expected ^^ Don Juan." 
Was not yet decided upon giving me the guarantee against 
the claims of Sheridan's creditors on the papers Charles S. 
has ^en me. Told him I had begun a new poetical 
work. He asked me, *^Is it disposed of?" and I replied 
diat I was sure he himself would not have a good opinion 
of me if I were to give up the Longmans. To this he 
assented with a very good grace ; and said he only re^ 



332 DIARY OP t-ETAT.40, 

grctted, and never ceased to do so^ that he had lost '^ Lalla 
^ f Kookh," when he might haye had it. He showed me the 
amount of his first edition of *' Crabbe's Tales," just pub- 
lished, by which it appears that, when the whole (3000) 
are sold off, he will still be 1900Z. minus. Met Lord Grrey 
in the street, and had some conversation with him about 
his late Transubstantiation motion; he means to try it 
again* Dined at DougWs, and went to Lady Grey's 
ball at night. IVIiss O'Neil and the Duchess of York 
there. Talked a good deal with Pamela. 

30th. Called at Longman's. Found that my expected 
visit to Scotland was mentioned very flatteringly in the 
** Scotsman." Dined at Lord Dumnore's : company. Lord 
A. Hamilton, Nicholson and his sister. Sir H. Englefield, 
Ilallam, &c. We talked of literary impostures; that of 
Ireland, of Muretus uppn Scaliger, &c. Sir Harry very 
indignant against all such tricks; particularly against 
George Stevens's deceit upon the Society of Antiquaries 
(of which Sir H. is a distinguished member, though he 
says he was not among those taken in). Said Stevens 
** deserved to be whipped at the cart's tail for it." The 
rest of us seemed to think it was very good fun, and very 
venial. It was a stone which Stevens had prepared by 
leaving it sometime in a comer to give it the appearance 
of age, and then corroding a Saxon inscription into it by 
means of aquafortis, to the following effect, '^ Here the 
king Hardicanute, having drank off the cup, stared about 
him and died." As Hardicanute is said to have died in 
this manner at Lambeth, he had this stone exhibited in the 
windows of a curiosity seller in that neighbourhood, where 
it was, of course, soon found out by the antiquaries, and re- 
ceived as genuine by that learned body, till one of them dis- 
covered that the inscription was corroded and not engraved, 



Jdlt, 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 333 

which detected the trick. Mademoiselle D'Este and Lady 
Charlemont in the evening. Went to Almack's ; asked 
Madlle. D'Este there what she thought of Lady Charle- 
mont. " Oh, beautiful," she said, " as lovely as Lalla Bookh 
herself.*' 

July 1st. Went out to breakfast at Holland House. 
Lord Holland sent for me into his dressing-room ; talked 
of what happened last night in the House of Lords, on the 
reversal of Lord E. Fitzgerald's attainder ; seemed to fear 
he had said a little too much in the way of praise and 
gratitude. Lord Lansdowne having remarked to him that 
he ought to have said something about the injustice of the 
attainder. Talked, at breakfast, of Sheridan's speech 
upon Addington's accession to the premiership ; the joke 
from Aristophanes about Theseus, borrowed from a letter 
of Gr. Wakefield's to Mr. Fox, which S. had pronounced 
** curst pedantry," when it was read to him, but after- 
wards turned it to his own account. Francis said to Lord 
H. upon Sheridan's stealing his joke about the Peace, 
** This is the way they live upon me." Lord John Rus- 
. I sell's book, the " Life of Lord Eussell," just published. 
Talked with Lord John about his intention of votinoj 
against Burdett's motion for reform. Said I did not see 
how he could with any consistency oppose it ; and spoke 
as strongly as I could of the loss of ground the Whigs 
would suffer with the public, if they took part against so 
moderate and fair a proposal as I understood Burdett's 
r was to be. Called upon the Duke of Sussex on the way 
' into town, and sat with him for half an hour. He men- 
tioned the Prince's fancy ball as a good thing for a wag to 
write something comical upon. Asked me with much kind- 
ness about my Bermuda affair. Dined with Rogers. Was 
to have gone to Lady Ennismore's ball, but heard she was 



^ I 



334 DIART OF L'£tat.40. 

in alarm at the idea of the Regent (who was expected 
there) meeting me, and did not go. 

2d. Called at Mnrray's, and foond Croker there. Liong 
oonversation with him about the Catholic Question (which, 
he said, we should see carried with a high hand before Tcry 
long), and about Peel's defeat by Brougham. Gave me a 
oopy of his speech on the Catholic Question, and wrote in 
it, ** To T. M. esq.^ Jrom his old friend the author.** TVent 
firom thence to sit for Phillips. Lords Grey and Jersey 
came while I was sitting. Dined at Holland House. 
Wann dispute between Mackintosh and Lord H. after 
dinner about Buonaparte's detention of the English tra- 
vellers in France; Lord H. being of opinion that our 
seizure of the ships justified him in it, and Mackintosh 
allying the usage and law of nations which allowed 
plunder by sea, but forbade it by land. Slept there. 

3d. Beceived a note announcing my dear Bessy's 
arrival the night before from Edinburgh, which she left on 
Tuesday (29th) ; a very short passage. Breakfasted with 
her in Duke Street, and th«i went to my proctor's, who 
told me that the first of my three Bermuda cases was to 
come before the Lords of Appeal on Tuesday next ; and 
he had great hopes it would be dismissed, from the evident 
signs of collusion in the adverse party. Dined at home with 
Bess, and took her to the Surrey Theatre in the evening. 

4th. Called with Bessy upon Lady Cork. Asked us 
both to an assembly, to which she said she had invited the 
B^ent, but complained that he never would come near 
her since I had described him at her routs in the *^ Two- 
penny Post Bag." Told me a great deal about Sheridan. 
First met him and Mrs. S., soon after their marriage, at a 
Mr. Cootes's. Mrs. S. sung with the Miss Cooteses, the 
little children that are painted vrith her in her portrait . 



Jui.T,18190 THOMAS MOOBE. 335 

(by Sir J. Reynolds) as St. Cecilia. Sheridan then an 
ugly, awkward-looking man. The Duchess of Devonshire 
anxious to have Mrs. S. to sing at her house, but not liking 
to have him, — a " player,'^ as she called him. Beminded 
of this some time after by Lady Cork on her keeping 
a house two months unoccupied, which she had taken at 
great expense at Bath, and alleging for her reason that she 
and her party were detained from day to day at Chats- 
worth by the agreeableness of S.'s conversation. S. always 
said the ^* Rivals " was one of the worst plays in the language, 
and he would give anything he had not written it. It was 
by her brother Monckton's interest, S. first got in for 
Stafford. He would often keep his chaise and four wait- 
ing all day at Monckton's while he played cricket with 
the children. Dined (Bessy and I) with Shee. Lady 
Kennedy came in the evening, and sung ; so did I. 

5th. Bessy shopping in the morning. We dined at 
Douglas's at five, an she and they went to the play to 
see Miss O'Neil in ^' Juliet," while I went to dine again at 
Lord Lansdowne's. Company : Mackintosh, Brougham, 
Hallam, Wishaw, Sir Alexander Johnstone, &c. Got 
into a sad scrape during dinner, by repeating Byron's 
unpardonable verses upon poor Romilly ; for I found 
afterwards, that Romilly's son was sitting opposite to me. 
Left Lord L.'s at nine, and joined the party at Covent 
Grarden. Saw '^ Mother Goose." In talking of Crabbe 

with Hallam at dinner, he quoted what Miss had 

said of him as a companion, that ^^ the cake was no doubt 
very good, but there was too much sugar to cut through 
in getting at it." To-day my Bermuda cause comes on. 

6th. A desperate wet day. We dined at Power's, in 
tiie Strand. Had taken places for Bessy and her.train in 
the Calne coach for to-morrow. 



336 DIARY OF [^TAT. 40. 

7 th. Walked out with Bess, and made some visits. 
She bought a seal as a present for Mrs. Phipps, and 
ordered ** Sophia'* and a *' Forget-me-not" to be engraved 
upon it, which the man said he would have ready by half- 
past four. Dined early, and saw her and her little ones 
off. Was mortified sadly at finding that I had by mistake 
taken their places in the six-inside coach, and that they 
were crammed in with a legion of disagreeable people, and 
a pile at the top quite terrifying. Wanted Bessy to 
forfeit what I had paid and give up going ; but she would, 
not. Worried myself about it all the evening. Richard 
Power and I went to the Lyceum to see the Jovial 
Crew; from thence to Covent Garden, behind the scenes — 
Don Juan and Miss Stephens; afterwards to Yauxhall^ 
where we were joined by Beecher and a Mr. French. Saw 
Madame Saqui ascending among the fireworks, more like 
a vision than anything I had ever yet beheld. Supped, 
drank arrack-punch, and was home by three. Have not 
heard from Toller to-day, so take for granted my cause 
did not come on yesterday. 

8th. Walked about with R. Power in the morning : 
called at Lord Blessington's, and fixed Sunday for both of 
us to dine with him. Dined at Richardson's (P. and S.) 
for the purpose of going to see Miss O'Neil in " Evadne." 
There being a delay in bringing dinner, we resolved to 
eat but half of it before the play, and have the rest after- 
wards. Miss O'Neil's acting most exquisitely touching. 
Must no longer delay thanking Sheil for his dedication of 
this very effective play to me. 

9th. Went to breakfast with Rogers, and found Luttrell 
and him going upon the water to follow the Fishmongers' 
barge, and enjoy the music. Went with them, upon 
Rogers's insuring my return at six to DougWs christening 



July, 1819.] THOMAS MOOEE. ^ />^ r^7 ^ K . 

dinner. Luttrell, as usual, very agreeable7^*^^^^^5g& ^'^^ 
talking of the beauty of the bridges, and how some 
persons had opposed the building of the Waterloo Bridge, 
saying it would spoil the river : " Gad, sir," says Luttrell, 
*^ if a few very sensible persons had been attended to, we 
should still have been champing acorns." Nobody puts 
a sound philosophical thought in a more pithy, sarcastic 
form than he does. I was mentioning the poems lately 
I published by " Barry Com wall,", which had been sent to 
me by the author; and that, on my calling at the publisher's 
to leave my card for him, I was told his real name was 
X Proctor, but that, " being a gentleman of fortune, he did 
not like to have his name made free with in the Reviews." 
** I suppose," says Luttrell, " he is of opinion qui non habet 
ill crumend luat in corporef^^ (These poems, by the by, are 
full o^ original talent.) In talking of devices, I mentioned 
the man who, on receiving from a mistress he was tired of 
the old device, a leaf with ** Je ne change qiCen mouranty^ 
sent back a seal with a shirt on it and the following motto, 
I " Ten change tous les joitrs.^^ Luttrell mentioned the open 
scissors with ^* We part only to meet again." At Hammer- 
smith, on our return, I took the coach to town, but was 
after all too late, and lost my dinner at Douglas's. 
Dined alone at the George ; and went behind the scenes 
at Covent Garden to see *^ Figaro." Miss Stephens and 
tliat pretty Miss Beaumont delightful in ** Susanna and 
the Page." There is no such pleasant piece as '^ Figaro." 
10th. Took for granted, from not having heard since 
Tuesday from Toller, that all was safe; but the truth came 
upon me like a thunder- clap this morning ; the cause was 
heard and decided against me, and in two months from last 
I Wednesday an attachment is to be put in force against my 
-'I person. Toller had written to tell me, but from his mis- 

VOL. II. Z 



338 DIABY OF [JET^T.40. 

directing his note to Dake Street, Westminster, I have 
been left in the bliss of ignorance for these three days 
past. Went and consulted with the Longmans, who are 
all anxiety and kindness. Wrote to tell Bessy the sad 
news, which comes the worse fnHn my haying been lately 
led to expect that the case would be dismissed. Beecher 
offered me an asylum in his place near Cork, if I thought 
I could conceal myself there; and this I should like better 
than a flight to France, if I thought I could be safe there. 
Dined with R. Power at the Geoige, and went to **Don 
Juan ^ in the evening. 

llth. Breakfasted with Sogers, and afterwards went 
out to Holland House. Found they knew of my misfor- 
tune on Tuesday last, Brougham having been at the Cock- 
pit when it was decided, and having written a despatch 
from thence to Lady Holland. B. Power and I dined at 
Lord Blessington's. Lord J3. mentioned a good story of aji 
Irishman he knew, saying to a dandy who took -up his 
glass to spy a shoulder of mutton, and declared he had never 
seen such a thing before, *' Then, I suppose, sir, you have 
been chiefly in the chop line/* 

12th. Wrote to old Sheddon, who recommended this 
precious deputy (his nephew) to me. Every one says he is 
bound in honour to bear me harmless through the loss, but 
I have but little hope that he wilL Met Bishop at 
Power's (Strand) to see his arrangements of the ** National 
Airs " I gave him : like what he has done very much. 
Dined with R. Power and Beecher at the Piazza, in order 
to see Miss O'Neil in "Belvidera:" had called upon her in 
the morning. The play altogether well acted; she, all 
woman, and thorough woman. What a play it is! and 
what a woman she is I The Blessingtons in the Prince's 
box. Joined them after the play, and went home and 



Jolt, 1819.] THOMAS MOOBE. 339 

supped with them. My lady very anxious for me to stay 
in town for a dinner of Opposition people, they are to 
have next week ; is trying, with all her influence, to bring 
the Peer over to the right side of politics, and says she is 
sure of succeeding. Wishes much I would introduce 
Lord Lansdowne to her. 

13 th. Had an interview with Dr. Lushington, who 
\ advises my keeping out of the way, and has no doubt that 
by so doing I may make a good compromise with these 
American merchants. He, as weM as Kogers and others, 
seem to think that any place of concealment in Ireland would 
not have security enough, and that I had better go to 
France. By the by, Burdett, on Sunday last, was strenu- 
ously advising an application to the Crown to relinquish 
its claim (the least of the three), and was proceeding at 
last to enforce it so seriously, that I was obliged to declare 
warmly that I would rather bear twice the calamity than 
suffer the least motion to be made towards asking the 
slightest favour from the Crown, It was singular enough 
that I should be pitted against Sir Francis on such a sub- 
ject. Called at the Longmans, who have come forward in 
the handsomest manner, and offered to advance me any 
sum, in the way of business, to which by compromise I may 
be able to reduce the sum of the claims upon me (which at 
present seeilis to be near 6000/.), saying that they have 
I the most perfect confidence in me every way. This is very 
gratifying, and this is the plan I mean to adopt as the 
most independent and most comfortable to my feelings. 
n Called upon Perry, who put in a paragraph yesterday 
stating the circumstance. This paragraph has made a great 
sensation. He had had a letter from " Exanainer *' Hunt 
I the night before, urging the instant opening of a subscrip- 
tion, without consulting me at all, and saying, with a 

z 2 



840 DIABY OP [^TAT.40. 

warmth wWch I am very grateful for, "that he would 
sooner seUy and would actually sell^ the pianoforte which 
had so often resounded with my music^ than not contribute 
his mite to keep such a man from going to prison." I begged 
of Perry, however, to put a stop to his intentions of pro- 
posing a subscription. Perry most friendlily offered eveiy 
assistance in his power, and suggested whether a private 
subscription, in the way of a loan, might not be got up 
among my own immediate friends, without inciting any 
objection ift my mind. " He had already cited Charles Fox 
as a precedent for a subscription; but this was a blemish 
in Fox's life to be deplored rather than imitated ; and I 
never shall forget Sir Charles Hastings complaining to me 
once of Fox's hauteur in scarcely returning his bow, 

** Though, by G (says Sir Charles), I was one of those 

who gave 300/. towards his maintenance." Who would 
have this said of him that could, by a crust and water, 
avoid it ? Called upon Rogers, who objects to my '^ making 
myself a slave to the booksellers," and thinks I ought to 
accept of the offera of friends. '* There is my 500/. (he 
said) ready for you. Your friend Bichard Power will, of 
course, advance another." I answered, "No, my dear 
Rogers, your 500/. has done its duty most amply ; and I 
am resolved never more, if I can help it, to owe any money 
to friends." "Dined with Admiral Douglas, and went to 
Mrs. Drummond Burrell's in the evening; the Duchess of 
York, and all the world (at least all the summer world) 
there. Came away early. 

14th. Dined with Power (Strand) to meet Bishop, who 
brought two more of the airs he has arranged. He men- 
tioned a good story to prove how a musician's ear requires 
the extreme seventh to be resolved. Sebastian Bach, one i 
morning, getting out of bed for some purpose, ran his j 



July, 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 341 

fingers over the keys of the pianoforte as he passed, but 
when he returned to bed found he could not sleep. It was 
in vain he tossed and turned about. At length he recol-^ 
lected that the last chord he struck was that of the seventh ; 
he got up again, resolved it, and then went to bed and 
slept as comfortably as he could desire. Went at ten to 
meet Richard Power at the York, where we supped ; thence 
home to pack, as I was to be off in the morning. 

15 th. Set off for home in the York coach at seven 
o'clock ; Pigou's brother one of my fellow-passengers ; lives 
near Beading, and wished me to stop and pass a day or two 
with him. Found the Phipps's gig at Calne, waiting to 
take me home. Bessy and the little ones quite well ; but 
the dear girl much annoyed at the idea of my going to 
Prance without her. My intention, however, is, if the 
negotiation should threaten to be tedious (which I rather 
fear it will), to have her and the little ones over, and settle 
either at Calais or Boulogne till it is terminated. 

16th. Walked to Devizes to witness the nomination of 
a member for the county, in the place of Methuen, who 
has resigned. Dined at Salmon's with the Phippses, and 
walked home in the evening. Received a letter from 
Lord Lansdowne, saying he had written to me to town on 
reading in the newspapers of my misfortune, and as he sup- 
posed the letter had missed, he would repeat what was in 
it, namely, that he would be most happy to assist me in 
this exigency, either by becoming my security, or in any 
other way I could point out. This is real friendship, and 
should make me pause a little in my conclusions with re- 
spect to the hollowness of the great. It is the more valu- 
able from Lord L.'s being a man that measures well every 
step he takes, and therefore means all he professes. 

17th. Walked to Bowood. Sat with Lord Lansdowne 

z 3 



342 DIARY OP • [iETAT.40. 

0(Hne time, and thanked him, as well as I conld, for his 
great kindness to me. I had sent him Byron's " Don 
Juan,'' and he was most delighted with some parts of it. 
Walked to show me a pretty path through the wood on 
my return. Dined at home. The Phippses and Mac- 
donald dined with me on some sahnon I had brought Toth 
me from town. Mrs. Macdonald and her visitors the 
Debretts in the evening. Sung to them. 

18th. Dined at Bowood. Company : the Hollands and 
Morpeths, Lord J. Russell, &c. I mentioned before din- 
n^, to Lord Holland, two passages that had struck me in 
looking over a new publication of Montgomery's that 
morning. The first was : 

" The dead are like the stars by day, 
Withdrawn from mortal eye. 
But not extinct, — they hold their way 
In glory through the sky." 

Lord H. did not much like them. In the first place he 
said^ "they be^ed the question;" but surely poets are 
privileged to be even bold beggars in this way. In the 
next place he said^ the stars reappeared continually, which 
the dead did not : but the poet only compares the dead to 
stars "by daj/; " and it is too hard upon similes to travel 
out of the record thus in search of things in which the 
objects compared are not like. The other passage describes 
a setting of the sun behind a hill : 

'* and in his own blue element expires : 
Thus Aaron laid his gorgeous robes aside 
On Horeb's consecrated mounts and died !" 

This he was more tolerant about. Lord John Kussell 
talked to me, with much kindness, about my Bermuda 
business. We all walked in the evening through the 
pleasure-groimds. I joined Bessy and Mrs. P. at supper. 



JiTi-T, 1819.] THOMAS MOOKE, S43 

Wrote an election squib while at supper, copied it out 
j like print, and left it to be sent to the '^ Salisbury Journal" 
by Mrs. P. in the morning. 

2(>th. Looked over papers. Began a song to an air of 
Pleyel's, ** To paint her brow is a task beyond." Walked 
in the evening through the rain, with Bessy and Mrs. P. 
(who had dined with us), to Macdonald's, in order to settle 
about a pic-nic party which we had intended to the wood 
to-morrow. It being so wet, resolved to have it in-door 
at Macdonald's instead. 

21st. Received a letter from Lord J. Russell, inclosing 
one which he had just got from his brother. Lord Tavistock, 
and which, after requesting Lord John to 'make inquiries 
about me as to whether anything was doing to save me 
from imprisonment, adds, " I am very poor, but I have 
always had such a strong admiration for Moore's inde- 
pendence of mind, that I would willingly sacrifice some- 
thing to be of use to him." Lord John in his letter says, 
that had I not expressed to him on Monday (19th) my 
resolution not to accept of any assistance, it was his inten- 
tion to offer me the future editions of his " Life of Lord 
Russell," just published, which, if worth anything, were 
much at my service, though he would not have ventured 
to mention it now only for Lord Tavistock's letter. This 
is all most creditable both to them and me; and it is 
really worth while being in the scrape to have such 
testimonies of friendship exhibited on all sides. Dined at 
Macdonald's, the cold pic-nie dinner laid out very rurally 
and tastefully in their bam, which was lined all round 
with tablecloths, large wreaths of flowers, &c. &c. Danced 
in the evening, and did not get home till two o'clock. 

22nd. Received a letter from my unknown friend 
Mrs. A., offering me her house as a place of concealment, if 

z 4 



344 DIARY OF L^TAT. 40. 

I found it necessary, but saying it was unknown to her 
husband she made this offer, and begging me to answer 
her letter so as not to discover her having done so. Dined 
at Bowood : nearly the same party. Had a good deal of 
conversation with Lord Holland about Sheridan, which I 
have made notes of among my memoranda. Sung in the 
evening, and was rather glad I had an opportunity of 
making the Hollands feel a little what I could do in this 
way, for they never heard me properly before. Lady H. 
evidently much pleased : told me afterwards my articula- 
tion was the most beautiful she had ever heard. Lord H., 
Lord Lansdowne, and I talked of poetry. Lord H. in- 
clined to place Virgil and Kacine in the very highest rank ; 
but have they enough of the imagination, of the sublime, 
for this distinction ? Dryden too close a reasoner to be 
much a poet of imagination; yet Milton^s imagination 
did not hurt his powers in this way ; at least in what may 
be called his political reasoning, exhibited so powerfully in 
the speeches of the Devil ; the theological argumentation 
in his poetry being wretched enough. Lord Holland said 
a man's enjoyment of " The Medal" was the true test whe- 
ther he was a real admirer of Dryden or not. Lord H. has 
no ear for the music of verse. Gave the last lines of 
Denham's " Cooper's Hill" as a specimen of perfect har- 
mony in versification; yet in these lines both the pauses 
and the cadences are unvaried. Milton, as Lord Lans- 
downe justly said, is the truly musical poet, and Milton 
was a musician, which neither Pope nor any of his mono- 
tonous imitators are. The genuine music of poetry is to 
be found in the olden time, and we, in these days, would 
revive its note, if the lovers of the Popish sing-song would 
let us. Slept at Bowood. 

23rd. Breakfasted at Bowood; Lord Holland men- 



-I 



Jolt, 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 345 

tioned a Mr. P who lived at Bath, rather a nervous 

man; and who finding that his estates in Ireknd were 
not going on as they ought, went over in order to examine 
his agent's accounts; but on his arrival there for that 
purpose, the agent said to him, ** Sir, I think it right to 
inform you that, if you look over my books, I shall 

consider it as personal;" upon which poor Mr. P 

returned frightened to Bath again. Dined at home. Mrs. 
P. dined with us in order to go to a rural party in the 
evening at Hughes's Belvidere, near Devizes. Very 
nearly upsef by the horse backing down the hill. The 
place very pretty and the evening delicious. Met Phipps 
on our return at night to Devizes. He drove us home. 

24th. Received a letter from Miss F (the lady 

who wrote "Come, Stella, arouse thee"): full of sorrow 
at my misfortune, and offering me the copyright of a 
volume of poems, which she has ready for publication. 
Dinner at home : Salmons and Miss S. Hughes ; the 
Phippses and Brabant in the evening. Sung. Supped out 
in the open air at ten o'clock, and sat out till half-past 
eleven. The candles hardly moved by a breath. Had 
written to Lord Holland about some voters for Bennet. 
Received a long answer from him, begging me to state 
particularly to Bennet or his friends, that it was because 
he believed him a friend to religious liberty, and an enemy 
to all disqualifying tests, that he gave him his good 
wishes in the contest. A note too from Lord Lansdowne, 
asking me to dinner to-morrow. 

25th. Dined at Bowood; company as before. Had 
employed the morning in looking out Mr. Fox's letters 
from among Sheridan's papers, to take to Lord Holland. 
Took with me also some letters of the Prince's, in order 
to put some queries to him about them. After coffee. 



346 DIARY OF [^TAT.40^ 

went with Lord H. to his dres^ng-room, and read over 
these letters together. Told me some curioos particidars^ 
which I have noted down elsewhere. Sretumed to the 
drawingroom and song. Lord H. particularly pleased 
with *'' War against Babylon.** Ijady EL expressed a 
wish to me afterwards that I would write something 
in that style of '' philosophical pathos/' which she said 

<« I I possessed, about the captive on the rock of St. Helena 
Told me she sent him oat presents every three months 
through Lord Bathnrst, and had received two or three 
messages from him, acknowledging hers and Lord H.'s 
kindness. Had got other persons too to send him some- 
thing. Lord Grlenbervie had sent his book; so had 

--I Lord John Bussell. Talked with Lord H. of Barrow 
and Taylor. He said few people had read them, and 
laughed at the coxcombry of Jeffrey for referring always 
so pompously to them, though most likely as little 
read in them as others. I mentioned I had heard that 
Mr. Fox was very fond of Barrow. He said he was not 
aware of this ; but that Lord Chatham was, and of read- 
ing ** Bailey's Dictionary." I said that it was a practice 
of Curran's too to read through the Dictionary. Lord 
H. and Lord L. said they neither of them had ever read 
any English grammar till Cobbett's lately. I mentioned 
our study of the English grammar in Ireland, and Lord 
Lansdowne said he could easily suppose that I had made 
English grammar a particular study, as he had never 
known any Irishman but myself who did not sometimes 
make mistakes about "will" and "shalL" The best re- 
marks on the use of these words he had ever seen, were 
in Mitford's " Hannony of Languages." A pun of Lord 
H.'s upon some one who praised " Trapp's Vir^," *^ though 
he knows nothing o£ Yirgil, yet he understands Trap.\ 



July, 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. ^^ « .^ 

Mentioned that George Djer, in despair <^ 

one to listen to him reading his own pc 
when Dr. Graham came into the neighbourhot 
plan of burying people up to the neck in the ea. 
leaving them there some hours (as a mode of cu. 
some disease)^ took advantage of the situation of ti. ^se 
patients^ and went and read to them all the while they 
were thus stuck in the earth. Lady Lansdowne and 
Liady Georgiana Morpeth fixed Tuesday to come and call 
upon Bessy. Slept at Bowood. 

26th. Lord H. in the morning hailed me on my coming 
into the breakfast-room, with a shout of *^ War against 
Babylon," and said if he knew how to sing, he would have 
chaunted it out in passing my bedroom door. Dined at 
home. Mrs. P. and the Macdonalds in the evening. 
Played at bagatelle ; Mrs. P. and Bessy and I as Ben- 
netites against Macdonald, Mrs. D., Miss Maugham, and 
Miss Debrett as Astleyites ; and beat them. 

27th. Waited all the morning for Lady L. &c. Was 
to dine at Hughes's in Devizes, and met her on her way to 
the cottage after I had set out. Lord Morpeth one of the 
party ; and, as I foimd afterwards. Lord Lansdowne and 
Lord J. Russell joined them at the cottage. Left Devizes 
at eight and joined Bessy and Mrs. P. at Macdonald's, 
where I found them dancing quadrilles. Took to country 
dances, and I afterwards supped out in the garden in a 
bower, very prettily lighted up. 

28th. Looking over papers in the morning. Drank 
tea, and supped at Hughes's. 

29th. Macdonald took Bessy and me in his carriage to 
call at Bowood. Found Lord and Lady L. Saw some 
new pictures he had had down. A copy from one of the 
Caracci by BosSj most beautiful. Went and drank tea 



346 ^^ PIAKT OF [iETAT. 40. 

with Mrs. P. P. came home from Salisbury in the 
evening. 

30th. Was to have dined at Bishop's Cannings^ but 
sent an excuse. Had Macdonald and Mrs. P. in the 
evening, and supped alfresco. 

31st. Took a cold collation to Chittoway Wood; 
Bessy and ISIrs. Phipps, Miss Maugham^ Miss Debrett^ 
and Anastasia. Phipps not well^ and could not come. A 
very delightful day. The Hugheses to supper. 

August 1st. Called to inquire after Phipps, and saun- 
tered with him and her through their gardens. Dined at 
home ; and went^ Bessy and I, to drink tea at Phipps's. 
Walked into his wood to choose a place for the pic-nic 
dinner they are to ^ve on Friday next. 

2nd. Bowles called in the morning. Much delighted 
with an article in ** Bkckwood's Magazine" concerning his 
controversy with Campbell. Told me of his having ad- 
vised the poor psalm-writer (that comes to him for charity) 
to turn Dissenting preacher ; of his rigging him put with 
an old black coat and breeches of his own, and saying, 
** There, now you are fit to preach before any one. " Ex- 
cellent this in a minister of the establishment. In the 
evening a fitt champHre at Salmons' near Devizes ; a 
beautiful place, and everything gay and riant ; a boat on 
the little lake, musicians playing on the island in the middle 
of it, tents pitched for it, &c. &c. Bessy did not go, 
which I was very sorry for. Walked about with Mrs. P., 
and danced afterwards till three oVlock. It was said that 
the mob of Devizes had threatened to bum the wood, this 
being the high fever of the election ; but all was quiet. 

4th. Walked to Bowood, and called at P.'s in the way. 
Saw Lady Lansdowne, and left with her a memorandum 
book of Sheridan's, in which I had found Lord L.'s 



-i 



Aug. 1819.] THOMAS MOORE. 349 

name down among a list of persons for some subscription. 
Wished to know for what purpose it was. She spoke of 
Lady Holland ; she would not set out on a journey of a 
Friday for any consideration ; dreadfully afraid of thunder, 
&c. &c. I had received, by the by, a kind letter from her, 
two or three days since, inclosing one from Brougham, 
in which he said that Creevey, who lived a great deal 
with Sheridan, will be very happy to write down for me 
whatever anecdotes he remembers. 

5th. Phipps returned from Salisbury, with franks from 
J^ Bennet, who triumphed yesterday. Bessy went early to 
P.'s to assist in making preparations for the pic-nic of 
to-morrow. We both dined there ; and in the evening 
chose the place in the plantations for the dinner. Put up 
an awning, and covered the posts with laurel, &c. &c. 

6th. Day unluckily wet for the fete, but cleared up a 
little. Dined in the bower; very merry; the dancing, 
too, very pleasant ; and did not break up till past three in 
the morning. 

7th. Went with Macdonald to dine at Bowood. Com- 
- pany, besides ourselves, Mr. Joy and Bowles. Talked 
of the Princess of Wales's meditated return to England, 
and the probable consequences of it: whether it may 
not be the ambition of Lady Hertford that is stirring 
up the process of a divorce. Percival's book. When 
he sent one of the privately printed copies to Canning 
the latter very prudently sent it back without breaking 
the seal, and said, as he was sure it would some day or 
other find its way to the public eye, he would not run the 
risk of being at all suspected of having any share in its 
promulgation, by keeping the copy in his possession. 
Lord L. told me he perfectly remembered the occasion on 
which he had subscribed 1007. for Sheridan; it was to 



/ 



350 BIABT OF [uKtat.40« 

defray the expenses of his standing for Westminster. 
Talked of the memorandums for speeches among S.*s 
papers. How different from those left among Burke's. 
The latter were merely memorandums of the reasoningy 
for Burke could trust the wealth of his imagination. 
Sheridan^ on the contrary, whose imagination was slow, 
took notes chiefly of the shining parts, the figures, jokes, 
&c. &C. We talked of Vanini the ath^st, whom, strange 
enough, Bowles said he had never heard of. Lord Li. 
mentioned an anecdote (not very credible), that when this 
poor wretch was in the flames, he was heard to cry out 
" Mon Dieu ! Mon Dieu I " and on some one saying, 
** Listen to him now ; he owns there is a God," Vanini 
answered, *^ Faf on de parler." I mentioned his writing a 
letter to the Pope to say, that if he did not give him a bene- 
fice he would, in six months, overturn the whole Christian 
religion; and I believe he actually set about appointing 
twelve apostles for that purpose. I have read one book 
of his, and it is very dulL Came away early and supped 
at Macdonald's. Began to-day a song to a Maltese air, 
*' When the merry Castanet." 

8 th. To chiu*ch. Dined at home. Mrs. P. in the 
evening. 

9th. Have been comparing the MS. report of S.'s 
Westminster Hall speech with the printed one in the 
history of the trial; and making extracts, which I shall 
get Mrs. P. and others to transcribe for me. I drank tea 
at Hughes's. 

10th. Lord LanBdowne called, and brought me a letter 
from Allen, on the subject of my going to reside at Holy- 
rood House, about which Lady Holland wrote to me some 
days since. They think in Edinburgh it would protect 
me ; and certainly, if so, it would be far preferable to the 



Aug. 1819.] THOMAS MOOBC. 351 

transportation of my family to the Continent. Allen has 
written to Thomson of Edinburgh to inquire. Lord L. 
evidently wishes that I should, at all events^ go in the 
first instance to Paris, as he is going there himself. Dined 
at Macdonald's, for the purpose of going to Locke's ball 
in the evening. Bessy came, and dressed after dinner. 
A very gay balL Got home at five in the morning. 

12th. Called at Bowood. Took with me some of S.'9 
papers, which Lord L. had expressed a wish to see. 

13th. Drove with Phipps to Bowood. Sung for Mrs. 
P.'s friend Mrs. Tindall, before we went. Dined at 
Locke's. 

14th, Called on Mrs. P. Thence to Money's, who 
walked me through some parts of his grounds ; very pretty 
and secluded. A dinner at home; the Hugheses. Li 
the evening the P.s came; played at "The Jew," and 
supped. 

15th. Wrote a verse of a song to the " Grar9on 
volage," and copied out some of my " Life of She- 
ridan." Dined at Bowood. Company : Lemon and 
Lady Charlotte, Richard Wellesley, and Sir Charles Ball. 
Stories of Lady Cork. I mentioned her assailing me one 
morning with a pitch-plaster at a rehearsal we had of a 
reading of " Comus," when I had alleged cold as my 
excuse for not taking a share in it ; her proceeding to un- 
button my waistcoat for the purpose of putting on the 
plaster ; and my flying from her and taking refuge among 
the Bacchanals, she following with the plaster in her 
hand. Lord L. told of his calling upon her one morning, 
and finding her whole establishment assembled and in a 
state of bustle and important discussion. '^ Come in," 
said she, " Lord Lansdowne, come in ; I am so glad you 
arrived at this moment ; only think ! the grey parrot has 



352 DIABY OP [-ETJLT.4a 

just laid an egg.^ Storiea of mistakes of Frenchmen and 
Englishmen. In returning home in the evening over- 
took the P.s and Macdonalds riding. Went to sup at 
Macdonald's. 

17tL Transcribed a little. Had a tea-drinking party, 
and a dance to the pianoforte in the evening ; our party 
about sixteen. Did not separate till near three in the 
morning. On their drinking my health at supper, made 
them a short speech, alluding to the probability of my soon 
being obliged to leave them, which drew tears from most 
of the women. 

18th. Dined at the Book Club at Chippenham; my 
first time of appearing among them since they elected me 
by acclamation. Made a speech after dinner, on my 
health being drunk, in which I eulogised book societies. 
Said if I wished to give a foreigner an idea of the taste 
and turn of thinking of the middle classes of England, 
I should be content to refer him to the annual list of books 
selected for these societies ; no trash, &c. &c. ; but works 
solid, useful, and enlightening; the labours of the historian 
&c. &c.; or, if sometimes they turned to reading lighter 
works, it was but to drink of such rich streams of fiction 
as that which had lately issued so abundantly from the 
North, — whose source was almost as hidden as that of the 
Nile, but which seemed as if, like the Nile, it would flow 
for ever. If controversy, such controversy as that which 
Bowles (who was present) had lately maintained with 
Campbell, " where two of the first poetical champions of 
the day equip themselves from the shining armoury of 
taste, and enter the lists in a strife as gentle as it is 
animated, — while the pure flame of poetical feeling is seen, 
like that on the helmet of Diomed, issuing from the brow 
of each combatant during the conflict." 



Aucu 1819.3 TH03IAS MOORE. 353 

19th. Called upon Lord Lansdowne^ to show him 
the letter Allen had received from his friend Thomson, 
expressing no doubt whatever as to the safety of Holy- 
rood House. Rogers^ however, had told Allen that 
I was threatened with an Exchequer process, which he 
feared Holyrood would not protect me from; but I have 
nothing of the sort to fear. Lord L. gave me another 
{letter he had just received from Allen for me, inclosing one 
.from Mackintodi on the same subject. Borrowed a collec- 
tion of French airs froin Lady L., and began words to one 
in walking home, — " Love is a hunter boy." Dined quietly 
^at home, and transcribed in the evening. Beceived a 
letter from Lord John Kussell, sajdng the Duke wished 
me to go to Wobum for a few days before our departure 
-for Paris. 

20th. Wrote to Allen, Mackintosh, and Lord John. 
Mrs. Phipps took Bessy and me into Devizes in her car- 
riage, that Bessy might return Mrs. Estcourt's visit. Mrs. 
P. dined with us ; and, in the evening, she and I and Anas- 
tasia walked through the beautiful valley behind our 
cottage. 

22d. A very kind letter from Mackintosh, in which he 
says, ** You will find in Edinburgh as many friends and 
admirers as even you could find anywhere." Regulated my 
papers preparatory to my flight ; tore letters, &c. Dined 
at Macdonald's to meet the Phippses. 

23rd. Employed in preparation for my departure. My 
darling Bessy bears all so sweetly, though she would give 
her eyes to go with me ; but, please Heaven I we shall not 
be long asunder. Dined at home at half-past two, and 
dined at Bowood afterwards. Called upon Mrs. P. on my 

VOL. II. A A 



-\ 



354 DIARY OP [^TAT.40. 

way. Mrs. Bennet arrived while I was with her. Lord L. 
quoted a line to the poetical Emperor of China, something 
Iike» '^ Et tons tes vers son bans dans ton empire,^ Told of 
Lord Morlej's having engaged a governess, and afterwards 
found out, by his misdirecting a letter of hers which he 
was franking, that she was the female orator at the British 
Forum. The letter was sent to Mrs. Villiers, and in it the 
oratoress gave her opinion pretty &eely of the family, and 
mentioned the use she intended to make of the knowledge 
she acquired among them in her future speeches. Walked 
with Lord L. on the terrace in the evening. Mentioned 
to him my transactions with Lord Moira ; his promise to 
me during the reign of the Whigs, that I should be one of 
the^ auditors of public accounts; my final interview and 
conversation with him, &c &c. Had much talk about 
Lord M.'s efforts to form an administration after the 
failure of his negotiations with Grey and Grenville. He 
had gone so far as to fix with three or four to go to Carlton 
House to kiss hands ; but Canning, who was one of them, 
went there in an every-day coat, as he knew he could not 
Idss hands without a dress one, and was resolved merely to 
go and see what was doing. 

24th. Left Calne for town in the White Lion coach ; 
Windham, Lady Ennismore's brother, joined at Marl- 
borough. Went with him, on arriving in town, to the 
Piazza, and had turtle and cold punch. Slept at my lodg- 
ings in Duke Street. 

25th. Transcribed my ** Sheridan" for Murray till one 
o'clock. Called at Tegart's. Met the Duke of Leinster, 
and got three franks. Miss Tegart knows Cobbett's 
family, and says the women are as feminine and engaging 
persons as can be ; Miss Cobbett a particularly nice girL 



Aug. 1819.1 THOMAS MOOBE. 355 

Went to Power's ; and thenoe to Longmans' by water. 
They advise my taking this opportunity to make my three 
months' tour, and think the plan I have of a few Poetical 
Epistles from the most remarkable places would pay my 
expenses. Called at Drury Lane upon Ward, who pro- 
mises to give me very important documents with respect 
to Sheridan's theatrical concerns. Told me the skeleton 
of the *^ Forty Thieves" was Sheridan's; then he (Ward) 
filled it up, and afterwards George Colman got 100/. 
for an infusion of jokes, &c. into it. Sheridan used to 
lie in bed all day; not for the purpose of indulging his 
indolence (as he wished it to be supposed, and as it was 
supposed), but for study and preparation. Told me that 
once when Sheridan was routed from one house to ano- 
ther, and his things, I believe sold, a collection of gages 
d*arriour, locks of hair, &c., which vanity induced him to 
keep, were sent for safe custody to a trusty person, and 
left there, till, this person dying, they came into the hands 
of a feUow who resolved to extort money from S. and the 
women concerned, on the strength of them. S. consulted 
Ward ; and the plan they adopted was to employ a Bow 
Street officer, make a forcible and sudden entry with pis- 
tols into the man's house, and after having gained the 
treasure, defy him to bring his action. Dined at the 
George ; while at dinner received a note written by a 
gentleman in the room, a Mr. , saying that finding 

out who I was, he could not, as a friend of Walter Scott 
and an admirer of poetry in general, resist the opportunity 
of introducing himself, and begging I would take some 
wine with him. Joined him after I had done dinner, and 
drank a bottle of claret with him. A parson and a poet 
himself, but not very orthodox, I suspect, in either capacity. 

A A 2 



f 



356 DIABT OV [iETAT.40. 

Went to the Lyceum^ and saw " Belles withoat Beaux^" 
and ** Amateurs and Actors.*' Wilkinson excellent 

26th. Beceived a letter from Allen, indosing^ one from 
Thomson, which appears to me to be quite decisive as to 
the safety of Holyrood House. A letter too from Mack- 
intosh inferring a different result of his inquiries ; but he 
owns it is upon the authority of English lawyers, who 
judge more by analogy than experience. Transcribed till 
one o'clock. Called at Carpenter's, who told me Lord 
Strangford had written to him most anxiously about my 
afl^. By the bye, I foi^et whether I have recorded 
what I heard from Dublin the other day, that the Bishop 
of Kildare (whom I know not at all), when a subscription 
was talked of for me, said his 5021 was ready ; and ^' c^est 
beaucoup dire** from a bishop. Called at Power's, at 
Longman's, and at Toller's. T. thinks they will not be 
very alert in their pursuit of me ; but I must not trust 
to this. Dined at Tegart's, Mrs. and Miss Cobbett in the, 
evening; the mother, a quiet, good sort of woman; and 
the daughter, very gentle, and, I dare say, sensible. 
When we talked of the rude manners of the Americans, 
Mrs, Cobbett said it was the republican part of them that 
deserved this character ; for the Boyalist or Federal party 
were very different in their manners. Went to the Hay- 
market, and saw Liston speak a speech upon an ass. 

27th. Wrote till one. Went to Power's, and copied out 
two songs for him. Thence to Longman's, who gave me 
the proofs of ** An Epistle to Thomas Moore, Esq.," of 
which they are printing fifty copies to distribute among 
my friends. The name of the author is a secret. By the 
bye, a thing has just been published, called '* The Fudger 
Fudged ; or, T y M e and the DeviL'' I ordered 



-f 



A 



Aug. 1819.] THOMAS MOOBE. 357 

a copy down in Phipps's fish basket the other day : never 
was there such wretched stuff. Dined at Lady Blessing- 
ton's ; company, Mrs. Purvis, Stroehling the painter and 
his wife. Dr. Richardson, who travelled with Lord Belmore, 
and is about to publish ; Tegart, and Charles Kemble. Mrs. 
Stroehling sung in the evening very sweetly. Did not get 
home till three o'clock. 

28th. Transcribed. Made calls. "Went with Wool- 
riche to dine at a bad coffee-house in Spring Gardens, and 
thence to Astley*s. 

29th, Transcribed. Called upon Mrs. Stroehling, who 
sung over to me some of the things I liked, and promised 
to copy them for me. Orme called at half-past two to 
take me put to dine at Longman's at Hampstead : Mrs. 

looking very pretty : sang some of my " Sacred 

Songs " with her in the evening. Slept there. 

30th. Walked in, after looking over ^^ Peter's Letters 
to his ESnsfolk." He says of Jeffirey's dress at some 
ass2mbly, "In short he was more of a dandy than any 
great author I ever saw, always excepting Tom Moore." 
Called at Heath's the engraver, to see the design Stothard 
has done for the second number of the " National Melodies." 
Love and Hope is beautiful, but Common Sense does not 
tell the story at alL A note from EUiston, wishing me to 
call upon him at Drury Lane. Went, as I had an appoint- 
ment with Ward also, in order to get some papers relating 
to Sheridan from him. Elliston's business was to entxeat 
me to write something for the theatre. When I mentioned 
the precariousness of writing for the stage, he said, " As 
to success^ one cannot answer ; but as to money, there shall 
be no precariousness ; for I have such dependence upon 
your talents, that I will buy the piece at once from you. 



358 



DIABT OF THOMAS MOORE. 



IMtjlt, 40. 



Name your own price^ and rate yourself as you ought^ among 
the highest." This is very flattering, but I fear the new 
manager is altogether too dashing. Dined with Power, 
and looked over music in the evening. 




END OP THE SECOND VOLUME. 



London: 

SroTTiBwooDBs and Shaw, 
New^treet-Sqnare. 



^ 



14 DAY USE 

KBTUKN TO DESK FROM \nUCH BOBKOWED 

LOAN DEPT. 

This book is due on the last date stamped below, or » 
on the date to which renewed. 

Renewed books are sub jea to immediate recalL 



^fflly^ 



BOOT" 



JUN 02 1980 



CIS. MAY 2 V ibci. 




IN STACKS 



APR 2 1960 

REC'D LD 

JUN 7 1960 




LD 



i:,QV 8136? 



s^rr^ 



-9^ 



IiD 21A-50m-4,'60 
CA95628l0)476B 



General Librmty 

Unirenicy of Calif orni* 

Berkeley 






i U. C. BERKELEY LIBRARIES 



I 




COMBbbSTbO 



I 



L^se^ 



