!ii!ii.'S;'o:^!V :■•;-;';■;'':;;;'■' 



Mi)sic-S 



^IvrS 




In (3ER 



J i-^*ig^^;t:!JC^;5j:-i?^-':JL-jJ^i'ii^5:'fe^^ 



Xy'M^^ UBRK(kY 




Date Due 



l^.liq 7 > 


t- ./ ) 















































































































































(.Ibrary Bureau Cat. no. 1137 




/ 



^ ^ ^^ 






•^///: 



/'^cn^cx-i?.-'^^ 



MUSIC -STUDY IN GERMANY. 



:^^'CC. ,XH 



MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



FROM THE 



HOME CORRESPONDENCE 



OF 



AMY FAY. 



EDITED BY THE 

ATTTHOR OF " CO-OPEKATITE HOUSEKEHPTITQ.'* 
NINTH EDITION. 



" The light that never was on sea or land." — ■Wobdswokth. 

"Pour admirer assez it faut admirer trop, et un peu d'illuslon est 
necessaire au bonheur." — Cheebtjliez, 



CHICAGO: 

A. C. McClukg & Company, 

1886. 



C O P Y K I G H T , 

Jansen, McClurg & Company. 

1880. 

h I ■ / 



n. R. DONNELLEY & SONS, PRINTERS. 



PREFACE. 



In preparing for the public letters which were written 
only for home, I have hoped that some readers would find in 
them the charm of style which the writer's friends fancy 
them to possess; that others would think the description 
of her masters, and especially Liszt, amid their pupils 
worth preserving; and that piano students would be grateful 
for the information that such an analysis of the piano tech- 
nique of the greatest artists has been made, that any earnest 
pupil can with comparative ease and certainty conquer the 
diflBculty of the piano-forte which includes all others — 

the SCALE. 

How much of Herr Deppe's piano " method " is original 
with himself, pianists must decide. That he has at least made 
an invaluable r/sww/ of all or most of their secrets, my sister 
believes that no student of the instrument who fairly and con- 
scientiously examines into the matter will deny. 

M. F. P. 

Chicago, Dec, 1880. 



CONTENTS. 



IN TAUSIG'S CONSERVATORY. 

CHAPTER I. 

PAGE. 

A German Interior in Berlin. A German Party, Joachim. 
Ta^sig's Conservatory 13 

CHAPTER 11. 

Clara Schumann and Joachim. The American Minister's. The 
Museum. The Conservatory. Opera. Tausig. Christmas. 25 

CHAPTER III. 

Tausig and Rubinstein. Tausig's Pupils. The Bancrofts. A 
German Radical 37 

CHAPTER IV. 

Opera and Oratorio in Berlin. A Typical American, Prussian 
Rudeness, Conservatory Changes. Easter 51 

CHAPTER V. 

The Thier-Garten. A Military Review. Charlottenburg. 
Tausig. Berlin in Summer Potsdam and Babelsberg 64 

CHAPTER VI. 

The War. Gsrman Meals. Women and Men. Tausig's Teach- 
ing. Tausig Abandons his Conservatory. Dresden. Kullak. 79 

(7) 



8 CONTENTS. 



WITH KULLAK. 

CHAPTER VII. 



PAGE. 

Moving. Gkrman Houses and Dinners. The War. Capture op 
Napoleon. Kullak's and Tausig's Teaching. Joachim. Wag- 
ner. Tausig's Playing. German Etiquette 95 

CHAPTER VIII. 

Concerts. Joachim again. The Siege op Paris. Peace Declared. 
Wagner. A Woman's Symphony. Ovation to Wagner in 
Berlin Ill 

CHAPTER IX. 

DirFicuLTiES op the Piano. Triumphal Entry op thb Troops. 
Paris 123 

CHAPTER X. 

A Rhine Journey. Frankfort. Mainz. Sail down the Rhine. 
Cologne. Bonn. The Seven Mountains. Worms. Spire. 
Heidelberg. Tausig's Death 131 

CHAPTER XL 

Eisenach, Gotha. Erfurt. Andernach. Weimar. Tausig 145 

CHAPTER XII. 

Dinner-Party and Reception at Mr. Bancroft's. Auction at 
Tausig's House. A German Christmas. The Joachims ... 157 

CHAPTER XIII. 

Visit to Dresden. The Wiecks. Von Bulow. A Child Prodigy. 
Grantzow, the Dancer 163 

CHAPTER XIV. 

A Rising Organist. Kullak. Von Bulow's Playing. A Princely 
Funeral Wilhelmj's Concert. A Court Beauty 174 



CONTENTS. 9 



CHAPTER XV. 

The Boston Fibb. Aggravations op Music Study. Kullak. 
Sherwood. Hoch Schule. Natalie Janotha. A Brilliant 
American 182 

CHAPTER XVI. 

A German Professor. Sherwood. Th« Baroness von S. Von 
BuLow. A German Party. Joachim, The Baroness at Home. 193 

WITH LISZT. 

CHAPTER XVII. 

Arrives in Wiemar. Liszt at the Theatre. — At a Party. At 
his own House 205 

CHAPTER XVIII. 

Liszt's Drawing-boom. An Artist's Walking Party. Liszt's 
Teaching 218 

CHAPTER XIX. 

Liszt's Expression in Playing. Liszt on Conservatorks. Or- 
deal op Liszt's Lessons. Liszt's^Kindness 227 

CHAPTER XX. 

Liszt's Compositions. His Playing and Teaching op Beethoven. 
His " Effects" in Piano-playing. Excursion to Jena. A 
New Music Master 235 

CHAPTER XXL 

Liszt's Playing. Tausig. Excursion to Sondershausen 248 

CHAPTER XXII. 

Farewell to Liszt! German Conservatories and their Methods. 
Berlin again. Liszt and Joachim 263 

CHAPTER XXIII. 

Kullak as a Teacher. The Four Great Virtuosi, Clara Schu- 
mann, Rubinstein, Von Bulow and Iausig 272 



10 CONTENTS. 



WITH DEPPE, 

CHAPTER XXIV. 



PAGE. 

Gives up Kullak for Deppe. Deppe's Method in Touch and in 

SCALK-PLATING. FrAULEIN StEINIGER. PeDAL StUDT 283 

CHAPTER XXV. 

Chord-plating. Deppe no mere "Pedagogue.'" Sherwood. 
Mozart's Concertos. Practicing Slowly. The Opera Ball. 299 

CHAPTER XXVI. 

A Set of Beethoven Variations. Fannie Warburg. Deppe-s 
Inventions. His Room. His Afternoon Coffee. Pyrmont. 311 

CHAPTER XXVII. 

The Brussels Conservatoire. Steiniger. Excursion to Klein- 
berg. Giving A Concert. Fraulein Timm 323 

CHAPTER XXVm. 

Music in Hamburg. Studying Chamber Music. Absence of Be 
ligion in Germany. South Americans. Deppe Once Morb 
A Concert Debut. Postscript 331 



IN TAUSIG'S CONSEEYATORT. 

(11) 



MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



CHAPTER I. 



A German Interior in Berlin. A German Party. Joachim. 

Tausig's Conservatory. 

Berlin, November 3, 1869. 
Behold me at last at No. 26 Bernburger Strasse ! 
where I arrived exactly two weeks from the day I left 
New York. Frau W. and her daughter, Fraulein A. 
W., greeted me with the greatest warmth and cordiality, 
and made me feel at home immediately. The German 
idea of a "large" room I find is rather peculiar, for 
this one is not more than ten or eleven feet square, 
and has one corner of it snipped off, so that the room 
is an irregular shape. When I first entered it I thought 
I could not stay in it, it seemed so small, but when 
I came to examine it, so ingeniously is every inch of 
space made the most of, that I have come to the conclu- 
sion that it will be very comfortable. It is not, however, 
the apartment where " the last new novel will he upon 
the table, and where my daintily slippered feet will rest 
upon the velvet cushion." No ! rather is it the stern 
abode of the Muses. 

(13) 



14 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY 

To begin then : the room is spotlessly clean and neat. 
The walls are papered with a nice new paper, grey ground 
with blue figures — a cheap paper, but soft and pretty. In 
one corner stands my little bureau with three deep draw- 
ers. Over it is a large looking-glass nicely framed. In the 
other corner on the same side is a big sofa which at 
night becomes a little bed. Next to the foot of the 
sofa, against the wall, stands a tiny square table, with a 
marble top, and a shelf underneath, on which are a 
basin and a minute soap-dish and tumbler. In the 
opposite corner towers a huge grey porcelain stove, which 
comes up to within a few feet of the ceiling. Next is 
one stiff cane-bottomed chair on four stiff legs. Then 
comes the lop-sided corner of the room, where an upright 
piano is to stand. Next there is a little space where 
hangs the three-shelved book-case, which will contain 
my vast library. Then comes a broad French window 
with a deep window-seat. By this window is my sea- 
chair — by far the most luxurious one in the house ! 
Then comes my bureau again, and so on Da Capo. In 
the middle is a pretty round table, with an inlaid centre- 
piece, and on it is a waiter with a large glass bottle full 
of water, and a glass; and this, with one more stiff 
chair, completes the furniture of the room. My cur- 
tains are white, with a blue border, and two transparen- 
cies hang in the window. My towel-rack is fastened to 
the wall, and has an embroidered centre-piece. On my 
bureau is a beautiful inkstand, the cover bemg a carved 
eagle with spread wings, perched over a nest with three 
eggs in it. It is quite large, and looks extremely pretty 
under the looking-glass. 



A BERLIN HOME. 15 

After I had taken off my things, Fran W. and her 
danghter ushered me uito their parlour, which had the 
same look of neatness and simplicity and of extreme 
economy. There are no cai-pets on any of the floors, but 
they have large, though cheap, rugs. You never saw 
such a primitive little household as it is — that of this 
German lawyer's widow. We tliink our house at home 
small, but I feel as if we lived in palatial magnificence 
after seemg how they hve here, i. e., about as our di'ess- 
makeis used to do in the country, and yet it is sufficiently 
nice and comfortable. There are two very pretty little 
rooms opposite mine, which are yet to be let together. 
If some friend of mine could only take them I should 
be perfectly happy. 

At night my bed is made upon the sofa. (They all 
sleep on these sofas.) The cover consists of a feather 
bed and a blanket. That sounds rather formidable, but 
the feather bed is a light, warm covering, and looks 
about two inches thick. It is much more comfortable 
than our bed coverings in America. I tuck myself into 
my nest at night, and in the mornmg after breakfast, 
when I return to my room — agrciTnento-presto-change ! 
— my bed is converted into a sofa, my basin is laid on 
the shelf, the sop.p-dish and my combs and brushes 
are scuttled away into the drawer; the windows are 
open, a fresh fire crackles in my stove, and my charm- 
ing little bed-room is straightway converted into an 
equally charmmg sitting-room. How does the picture 
please you ? 

This morning Frau and Fraulein W. went with me 
to engage a piano, and they took me also to the con- 



16 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

servatoiy. Tausig is off for six weeks, giving concerts. 
As I went up the stairs I heard most beautiful playing. 
Ehlert, Tausig's partner, who has charge of the conser- 
vatoiy, and teaches his pupils in his absence, examined 
me. After that long voyage I did not dare attempt any- 
thing difficult, so I just played one of Bach's Gavottes. 
He said some encouraging words, and for the present has 
taken me into his class. I am to begin to-morrow from 
one o'clock to two. It is now ten P. M., and tell C. we 
have had five meals to-day, so Madame P.'s statement 
is about correct. The cooking is on the same scale as 
the rest of the establishment — a little at a time, but so 
far very good. We know nothing at all about rolls in 
America. Anything so delicious as the rolls here I 
never ate in the way of bread. In the morning we had 
a CUD of coffee and rolls. At eleven we lunched on a 
cup of bouillon and a roll. At two o'clock we had din- 
ner, which consisted of soup and then chickens, potar 
toes, carrots and bread, with beer. At five we had tea, 
cake and toast, and at nine we had a supper of cold 
meat, boiled eggs, tea and bread and butter. Fraulein 
W. speaks English quite nicely, and is my medium 
of communication with her mother. I begin German 
lessons with her to-morrow. They both send you their 
compliments, and so you must return yours. They seem 
as kind as possible, and I think I am very fortunate in 
my boarding place. 

Be sure to direct your letters " Care Frau Geheim- 
rSthin W." (Mrs. Councillor W.), as the German 
ladies are very particular about their titles ! 



SPEAKING GERMAN. " 17 



Berlin, November 21, 1869. 

Since I wrote to you not much of interest has oc- 
curred. I am delighted with Berlin, and am enjoying 
myself very much, though I am working hard. I am so 
thankful that all my serving was done before I came, for 
I have not a minute to spare for it, and here it seems to 
me all the dresses fit so dreadfully. It would make me 
miserable to wear such lookmg clothes, and as I 
can't speak the language, the difficulties in the way of 
giving directions on the technicalities of dressmaking 
would be terrific. Tell 0. he is very mse to con- 
tinue his German conversation lessons with Madame P. 
Even the few that I took prove of immense assist- 
ance to me, as I can understand almost ever}^hing 
that is said to me, though I cannot answer back. He 
ought to make one of his lessons about shopping and 
droschkie drivmg, for it is veiy essential to know how to 
ask for thmgs, and to be able to give dn*ections in driv- 
ing. I had a very funny experience with a droschkie 
the other day, but it would take too long to write it. 
Frau W. cannot understand English, and she gets dread- 
fully impatient when Fraulem A. and I speak it, and 
always says " Deutsch " in a sepulchral tone, so that I 
have to begin and say it all over again in German with 
A.'s help. 

When I got fairly settled I presented myself and my 
letters at the Bancrofts, the B's. and the A's., and was very 
kindly and cordially received by them all. Mrs. Bancroft 
and Mrs. B. have since called in return, and I have already 
been to a charming reception at the house of the latter, and 
2 



18 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

to the grand American Thanksgiving dinner at the Hotel 
de Rome, at which Mr. Bancroft presided, and made very 
happy speeches both hi Enghsh and German. I en- 
joyed both occasions extremely, and made some pleasant 
acquaintances. I have also been to one German tea- 
party with Fran W. and A., and there I had " the jolhest 
kind of a time." There were only tw^elve invited, but you 
would have supposed from the clatter that there were at 
least a hundred. At the American dmner there was noth- 
ing like the noise of conversation that this little handful 
kept up. Before supper it was rather stupid, for the men all 
retired to a room by themselves, where they sat with closed 
doors and played wliist and smoked. It is not considered 
proper for ladies to play cards except at home, and I, of 
course, did not say much, for the excellent reason that I 
couldn't 1 At ten o'clock supper was announced, and 
the gentlemen came and took us in. Herr J. was 
my partner. He is a delightful man, though an elderly 
one, and knows no end of things, as he has spent his 
whole life m study and in travelling. He looks to me 
Hke a man of very sensitive organization, and of very 
dehcate feelings. He is a tremendous republican, and a 
great radical in every respect, and has an unbounded 
admiration for America. 

As soon as every one was seated at the table with due 
form and ceremony, all began to talk as hard as they 
could, and you have no idea what a noise they made, and 
how it increased toward the end with the potent libations 
they had. The bill of fare was rather curious. We 
began with shoes of hot tongue, with a sauce of chest- 
nuts, and it was extremely nice, too. Then we had ven- 



A GERMAN SUPPER. 19 

ison and boiled potatoes ! Then we had a dessert con- 
sisting of fruit, and some dehcious cake. There were 
several kinds of vnne, and everybody drank the greatest 
quantity. The host and hostess kept jumping up and 
going round to everybody, saying: "But you drink 
nothing," and then they would insist upon filling up 
your glass. I don't dare to think how many times they 
filled mine, but it seemed to be etiquette to drmk, and 
so I did as the rest. The repast ended with coffee, and 
then the gentlemen lit their cigars, and were in such an 
extremely cheerful frame of mind that they all began 
to sing, and I even saw two old fellows kiss each other ! 
The venison was delicious, and nicer than any I ever 
ate. Herr J. was the only man in the room who 
could speak any English, and since then he takes a good 
deal of mterest in me, and lends me books. Every Sun- 
day Frau W. takes me to her sister's house to tea. 
I like to go because I hear so much German spoken 
there, and they all take a profound interest in my affairs. 
They know to a mmute when I get a letter, and when I 
write one, and every incident of my daily life. It amuses 
them very much to see a real live wild Indian from 
America. I am soon going to another German party, 
and I look forward to it with much pleasure ; not that 
the parties here give me the same feeling as at home, 
but they are amusmg because they are so entirely dif- 
ferent. 

There is so much to be seen and heard in Berlin that 
if one has but the money there is no end to one's re- 
sources. There are the opera and the SchauspieUiaus every 
night, and beautiful concerts every evening, too. They 



20 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



say that the opera here is magnificent, and the scenery 
superb, and they have a wonderful ballet-troupe. So f ai', 
however, I have only been to one concert, and that was 
a sacred concert. But Joachim played — and Oh-h. what 
a tone he draws out of the violui ! I could thmk of 
nothmg but Mrs. Moulton's voice, as he sighed out those 
exquisitely pathetic notes. He played something by 
Schumann which ended with a single note, and as he 
drew his bow across he produced so many shades that it 
was perfectly marvellous. I am going to hear him 
again on Sunday night, when he plays at Clara Schu- 
mann's concert. It will be a great concert, for she 
plays much. She will be assisted by Joachim, Miiller, 
De Ahna, and by Joachim's wife, who has a beautiful 
voice and sings charmingly in the serious German 
style. Joachim himself is not only the greatest vio- 
linist in the world, but one of the greatest that ever 
lived. De Ahna is one of the first violinists in Ger- 
many, and Miiller is one of the first 'cellists. In fact, 
this quartette cannot be matched in Europe — so you 
see what 1 am expecting I 

Tausio" has not yet returned from his concert 
tour, and will not arrive before the 21st of De- 
cember. I find Ehlert a splendid teacher, but very 
severe, and I am mortally afraid of him. Not that he 
is cross, but he exacts so much, and such a hopeless 
feeling of despair takes possession of me. His first 
lesson on touch taught me more than all my other 
lessons put together — though, to be sure, that is not 
saying much, as they were "few and far between." 
At present I am weltering in a sea of troubles. The 



A " MUSICAL READING." 21 

girls in my class are three in number, and they all 
play so extraordinarily well that sometimes I think 
I can never catch up with them. I am the worst of 
all the scholars in Tausig's classes that I have heard, 
except one, and that is a young man. I knoAT that 
Ehlert thinks I haye talent, but, after all, talent must 
go to the wall before such practice as these people have 
had, for most of them have studied a long time, and 
have been at the piano four and five hours a day. 

It is veiy interesting in the conservatory, for there 
are pupils there from all countries except France. 
Some of them seem to me splendid musicians. On 
Sunday morning (I am sorry to say) once in a month 
or six weeks, they have what they call a '' Musical 
Reading.'*' It is held in a piano-forte ware-room, and 
there all the scholars in the higher classes play, so I 
had to go. Many of the girls played magnificently, 
and I was amazed at the technique that they had, and 
at the artistic manner in which even very young girls 
rendered the most difficult music, and all without 
notes. It gave me a severe nervous headache just to 
hear them. But it was delightful to see them go at 
it. None of them had the least fear, and they laughed 
and chattered between the pieces, and when their turn 
came they marched up to the piano, sat down as bold 
as lions, and banged away so splendidly I 

You have no idea how hard they make Cramer's 
Studies here. Ehlert makes me play them tremen- 
dously /or^e, and as fast as I can go. My hand gets so 
tired that it is ready to break, and then I say that I 
oannot go on. " But you mii^t go on," he will say. 



22 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

It is the same with the scales. It seems to me that I 
play them so loud that I make the welkin ring, and 
he will say, " But you play always piano J^ And with 
all this rapidity he does not allow a note to be missed, 
and if you happen to strike a wrong one he looks so 
shocked that you feel ready to sink into the floor. 
Strange to say, I enjoy the lessons in Zusammenspiel 
(duet-playing) very much, although it is all reading 
at sight. Four of us sit down at two pianos and read 
duets at sight. Lesmann is a pleasant man, and he 
always talks so fast that he amuses me veiy much. 
He always counts and beats time most vigorously, and 
bawls in your ear, "Eins — zwei! Eins — zwei!" or some- 
times, " EinsP' only, on the first beat of every bar. 
When, occasionally, Ave all get out, he looks at us 
through his glasses, and then such a volley of words as 
he hurls at us is wonderful to hear. I never can help 
laughing, though I take good care not to let him see 
me. 

But Weitzmann, the Harmony professor, is the fun- 
niest of all. He is the dearest old man in the world, and 
it is impossible for him to be cross ; but he takes so 
much pains and trouble to make his class understand, 
and he has the most peculiar way of talking imagin- 
able, and accents everything he says tremendously. I 
go to him because Ehlert says I must, but as I know 
nothing of the theory of music (and if I did, the names 
are so entirely different in German that I never should 
know what they are in English) it is extremely diffi- 
cult for me to understand him at all. He knew I was 
an American, and let me pass for one or two lessons 



A GERMAN PROFESSOR. 23 

without asking me any questions, but finally his Ger- 
man love of thoroughness has got the better of him, 
and he is now beginning to take me in hand. At the 
last lesson he wrote some chords on the blackboard, 
and after holding forth for some time he wound up 
^ith his usual " Verstehen Sie wohl — Jaf (Do you 
mderstand — Yes ?)" to the class, who all shouted "Ja" 
except me. I kept a discreet silence, thinking he 
wrould not notice, but he suddenly turned on me and 
said, " Verstehen Sie wohl — JaT^ I was as puzzled 
what to say as the Pharisees were when they were 
asked if the baptism of John were of heaven or of 
men. I knew that if I said "Ja," he might call on 
me for a proof, and that if I said "iV^eiX" Itlc w^ould 
undertake to enlighten me, and that I should not un- 
derstand him. 

After an instant's consideration I concluded the lat- 
ter course was the safer, and so I said, boldly, "iVem." 
'^Kommen Sie hierher! (Come here !)" said he, and to 
my horror I had to step up to the blackboard in front of 
this large class. He harangued me for some minutes, 
and then writing some notes on the bass clef, he put 
the chalk into my hands and told me to write. Not 
one word had I understood, and after staring blankly 
at the board I said, "ZcA verstehe nicht (I don't 
understand'.)" "Nei7if^' said he, and carefully went 
over all his explanation again. This time I managed 
to extract that he washed me to write the succession 
of chords that those bass notes indicated, and to tie 
what notes I could. A second time he put the 
chalk into my hands, and told me to write the 



24 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

chords. " Heaven only knows what they are !" thinks 
I to myself. In my desperation, however, I guessed 
at the first one, and uttered the names of the notes in 
trembling accents, expecting to have a cannon fired 
off at my head. Thanks to my lucky star, it happened 
to be right. I wrote it on the blackboard, and theii 
as my wits sharpened I found the other chords from 
that one, and wrote them all down right. I drew a 
long breath of relief as he released me from his 
clutches, and sat down hardly believing I had done 
it. I have not now the least idea what it was he made 
me do, but I suppose it will come to me in tlie course 
of the year ! As he does not understand a word of 
English, I cannot say anything to him unless I can say 
it in German, and as he is determined to make me learn 
Harmony, it would be of no use to explain that I did not 
know what he was talking about, for lie would begin 
all over again, and go on ad infinitum. I have got a 
book on the Theory of Music, which I am reading 
with Friiulein W. She has studied with Weitzmann, 
also, and when I have caught up with the class I shall 
go on very easily. I quite adore Weitzmann. He has 
the kindest old face imaginable, and he hammers 
away so indefatigably at his pupils ! The professors I 
have described are all thorougli and well-known musi- 
cians of Berlin, and I wonder that people could tell 
as before I came away, and really seem to believe it, 
"that I could learn as well in an American consei"va- 
tory as in a German one." In comparison with the 
drill I am now receiving, my Boston teaching was 
mere play. 



CHAPTER II. 

Clara Schumann and Joachim. The American Minister's. 

The Museum. The Conservatory. The Opera. 

Tausig. Christmas. 

Berlin, December 12, 1869. 

I heard Clara Schumann on Sunday, and on Tuesday 
evening, also. She is a most ivonderf ul artist. In the 
first concert she played a quartette by Schumann, and 
you can imagine how lovely it was under the treat- 
ment of Clara Schumann for the piano, Joachim for 
the first violin, De Aim a for the second, and Muller 
for the ^cello. It was perfect, and I was in raptures. 
Madame Schumann's selection for the two concerts 
was a very wide one, and gave a full exhibition of her 
powers in every kind of music. The Impromptu by 
Schumann, Op. 90, was exquisite. It was full of passion 
and very difficult. The second of the Songs without 
Words, by Mendelssohn, was the most fairy-like per- 
formance. It is one of those things that must be 
tossed oif with the greatest grace and smoothness, and 
it requires the most beautiful and delicate technique. 
She played it to j)erfection. The terrific Scherzo by 
Chopin she did splendidly, but she kept the great 
octave passages in the bass a little too subordinate, I 
thought, and did not give it quite boldly enough for 
my taste, though it was extremely artistic. Clara 
Schumann's playing is very objective. She seems to 

(25) 



26 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

throw herself into the music, instead of letting the 
music take possession of her. She gives you the most 
exquisite pleasure with every note she touches, and 
has a wonderful conception and variety in playing, but 
she seldom whirls you off your feet. 

At the second concert she was even better than at 
the first, if that is possible. She seemed full of fire, 
and when she played Bach, she ought to have been 
crowned with diamonds ! Such nohle playing I never 
heard. In fact you are all the time impressed with 
the nobility and breadth of her style, and the com- 
prehensiveness of her treatment, and oh, if you could 
hear her scales! In short, there is nothing more to 
be desired in her playing, and she has every quality of 
a great artist. Many people say that Tausig is far 
better, but I cannot believe it. He may have more 
technique and more power, but nothing else I am sure. 
Everybody raves over his playing, and I am getting 
quite impatient for his return, which is expected next 
week. I send you Madame Schumann's photograph, 
which is exactly like her. She is a large, very German- 
looking Avoman, with dark hair and superb neck and 
arms. At the last concert she was dressed in black 
velvet, low body and short sleeves, and when she 
struck powerful chords, those large white arms came 
down with a certain splendor. 

As for Joachim, he is perfectly magnificent, and 
has amazing power. When he played his solo in that 
second Ohaconne of Bach's, you could scarcely believe 
it was only one violin. He has, like Madame Schu- 
"v^^nn, the greatest variety of tone, only on the violin 



THE SING-AKADEMIE. 27 



the shades can be made far more delicate than on the 
piano. 

I thought the second movement of Schumann's 
Quartette perhaps as extraordinary as any part of Clara 
Schumann's performance. It was very rapid, very stac- 
cato, and pianissimo all the way through. Not a note 
escaped her fingers, and she played with so much mag- 
netism that one could scarcely breathe until it was fin- 
ished. You know nothing can be more difiicult than 
to play staccato so very softly where there is great 
execution also. Both of the sonatas for violin and 
piano which were played by Madame Schumann and 
Joachim, and especially the one in A minor, by Bee- 
thoven, were divine. Both parts were equally well 
sustained, and they played with so much fire — as if 
one inspired the other. It was worth a trip across the 
Atlantic just to hear those two performances. 

The Sing-Akademie, where all the best concerts are 
given, is not a very large hall, but it is beautifully 
proportioned, and the acoustic is perfect. The fres- 
coes are very delicate, and on the left are boxes all 
along, which add much to the beauty of the hall, with 
their scarlet and gold flutings. Clara Schumann is a 
great favorite here, and there was such a rash for 
seats that, though we went early for our tickets, all the 
good parquet seats were gone, and we had to get 
places on the estrade, or place where the chorus sits — 
when there is one. But I found it delightful for a 
piano concert, for you can be as close to the performer 
as you like, and at the same time see the faces of the 
audience. I saw ever so many people that I knew, 
and we kept bowing away at each other. 



28 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

Just think how convenient it is here with regard to 
public amusements, for hidies can go anywhere alone ! 
You take a droschkie and they drive yoti anywhere 
for five groschen, which is about fifteen cents. When 
you get into the concert hall you go into the garde- 
robe and take oif your things, and hand them over to 
the care of the woman who stands there, and then you 
walk in and sit down comfortably as you would in a 
parlour, and are not roasted in your hat and cloak 
while at the concert, and chilled when you go out, as 
we are in America. Their programmes, too, are not 
so unconscionably long as ours, and, in short, their 
whole method of concert-giving is more rational than 
with us. I always enjoy the garde-robe, for if you 
have acquaintances you are sure to meet them, and 
you have no idea how exciting it is in a foreign city to 
see anybody you know. 



Berlin, Decemher 19, 1869. 

I suppose you are mutteriiig maledictions on my 
head for not writing, but I am so busy that I have no 
time to answer my letters, which are accumulating 
upon my hands at a terrible rate. This week I have 
been out every night but one, so that I have had to 
do all my practicing and German and Harmony lessons 
in the day-time ; and these, with my daily hour and a 
half at the conservatory, have been as much as I could 



manage. 



On Monday I went to a party at the Bancroft's, 
which I enjoyed extremely. It was a very brilliant 



MR. BURLINGAME. 29 

affair, and the toilettes were superb. At the entrance 
I was ushered in by a very fine servant dressed in liv- 
ery. A second man showed me the dressing-room, 
where my bewildered sight first rested on a lot of 
Chinamen in festive attire. I could not make out for 
a second what they were, and I thought to myself, 
"Is it possible I have mistaken the invitation, and 
this is a masquerade?" Another glance showed me 
that they were Chinese, and it turned out that Mr. 
Burlingame, the Chinese Minister, was there, and these 
men were part of his suite. The ladies and gentle- 
men had the same dressing-room, which was a new 
feature in parties to me, and as we took off our things 
the servant took them and gave us a ticket for them, 
as they do at the opera. I should think there were 
about a hundred persons present. There were a great 
many handsome women, and they were beautifully 
dressed and much be-diamonded and pearled. Corn- 
colour seemed to be the fashion, and there were more 
silks of that colour than any other. 

Mr. Burlingame seemed to be a very genial, easy 
man. I was not presented to him, but stood very 
near him part of the time. He looks upon the intro- 
duction of the Chinese into our country as a' great 
blessing, and laughs at the idea of it being an evil. 
He says that the reason railroads can't be introduced 
into China is because the whole country is one vast 
grave-yard, and you can't dig any depth without un- 
earthing human bones, so that there would be a revo- 
lution on the part of the people if it were done now, 
but it will gradually be brought about. He travels 



/ 



30 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

with a suite of forty attendants, and says he has got 
all his treaties here arranged to his wishes, and that 
Prussia has promised to follow the United States in 
everything that they have agreed on with China. He 
is going to resign his office in a year and go back to 
America, where he wants to get into politics again. 
Mr. Bancroft introduced many of the ladies to the 
Chinese, one of whom could speak English, and he 
interpreted to the others. It was veiy quaint to see 
them all make their deep bows in silence when some 
one was presented to them. They were in the Chinese 
costume — Turkish trousers, white silk coats, or blouses, 
and red turbans, and their hair braided down their 
backs in a long tail that nearly touched their heels. 

On Thursday I went to Dr. A.'s to dinner. He 
seems to be a very influential man here, and is a great 
favorite with the Americans. He has a great big 
heart, and I suspect that is the reason of it. Mrs. A., 
too, is very lovely. I saw there Mr. Theodore Fay, 
who used to be our minister in Switzerland, and who 
is also an author. He is very interesting, and the 
most earnest Christian I ever met. He has the tender- 
est sympathies in the world, and in a man this is very 
striking. He has a high and beautiful forehead, and a 
certain spirituality of expression that appeals to you at 
once and touches you, also. At least he makes a pecu- 
liar impression on me. There is something entirely 
different about him from other men, but I don't know 
what it is, unless it be his deep religious feeling, which 
shines out unconsciously. 

Last week I made my first visit to the Museum. It 



THE MUSEUM. 31 



is one of the great sights of Berlin, but it is so 
immense that I only saw a few rooms. In fact there 
are two Museums — an old and a new. I was in the new 
one. It is a perfect treasure house, and the floors 
alone are a study. All are inlaid with little coloured 
marbles, and every one is different in pattern. One 
of the most beautiful of the rooms was a large circular 
dome-roofed apartment round which were placed the 
statues of the gods, and in the centre stood a statue 
in bronze of one of the former German kings in a 
Roman suit of armour. Half way up from the floor 
ran round a little gallery in which you could stand 
and look down over the railing, and here were placed 
on the walls Raphael's cartoons, which are f ac-similes 
of those in the Vatican, and are all woven in arras. 
They are very wonderful, and you feel as if you could 
not look at them long enough. The contrast is 
impressive as you look do^vn and see all the heathen 
statues standing on the marble floor, each one like a 
separate sphinx, and then look up and see all the 
Christian subjects of Raphael. The statues are so 
cold and white and distant, and the pictures are so 
warm and bright in colour. They seem to express the 
difference between the ancient and the modern relig- 
ions. We went through the rooms of G-reek and 
Roman statues, of which there is an immense number, 
and on the walls are Greek and Italian landscapes, all 
done by celebrated painters. 

We had to pass through these rooms rather hastily 
in order to get a glimpse of the " Treppen Halle," 
which is the place where the two grand stair-cases 



32 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

meet that carry you into the upper rooms of the 
Museum. This is magnificent, and is all gilding and 
decoration. An immense statue stands by each door, 
and on tlie wall are six great pictures by Kaulbach, 
three on each side. " The Last Judgment," of which 
you've seen photographs, is one of them. I ought to 
go to the Museum often to see it properly, but it is 
such a long distance off that I can't get the time. 
Berlin is a very large city, and the distances are as 
great as they are in New York. 

At the last " Reading " at the conservatory the four 
best scholars played last. One of them was an Amer- 
ican, from San Francisco, a Mr. Trenkel, but who has 
Grerman parents. He plays exquisitely, and has just 
such a poetic musical conception as Dresel, but a 
beautiful technique, also. He is a thorough artist, and 
he looks it, too, as he is dark and pale, and very strik- 
ing. I always like to see him play, for he droops his 
dark eyes, and his high pale forehead is thrown back, 
and stands out so well defined over his black brows. 
His expression is very serious and his manner vei*y 
quiet, and he has a sort of fascination about him. He 
is a particular favorite of Tausig's. 

After he played,came a young lady who has been a pu- 
pil of Von Billow for two years. She plays splendidly, 
and I could have torn my hair with envy when she got 
up, and Ehlert went up to her and shook her hand and 
told her before the Avhole school that she had " real 
talent. After her came my favorite, little Fraulein 
Timanoff, who sat down and did still better. She 
is a little Russian, only fifteen, and is still in short 



THE BERLIN OPERA HOUSE. 33 

dresses. She has ahnost white hair, it is so light, and 
she combs it straight back and wears it in two long 
braids down her back, which makes her look very 
childish. It is really wonderful to see her ! She 
takes her seat with the greatest confidence, and plays 
with all the boldness of an artist. 

Almost all the scholars in Tausig's class are study- 
ing to play in public, and I should think he would be 
very proud of all those that I have heard. There are 
many scholars in the conservatory, but he teaches 
only the most advanced. He only returned to Berlin 
on Saturday, and I have not yet seen him, though I 
am dying to do so, for all the Germans are wild over 
his playing. The girls in his class are mortally afraid 
of him, and when he gets angry he tells them they 
play " like a rhinoceros," and many other little re- 
marks equally pleasing. 



Berlin, January 11, 1870. 

Since my last letter I have been quite secluded, and 
have seen nothing of the gay world. I have been to 
the opera twice — once to ^'Fantaska" a grand ballet, 
and the second time to '' Trovatore." The opera house 
here is magnificent, and I would that I could go to it 
every week. It is extremely difficult to get tickets to 
it, as the rich Jews manage to get the monopoly of 
them and the opera house is crowded every night. It 
is the most brilliant building, and so exquisitely 
painted ! All the heads and figures of the Muses and 
portraits of composers and poets which decorate it, are 
3 



34 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

so soft and so beautifully doue. The curtain even is 
charming. It represents the sea, and great sea mon- 
sters are swimming about with nymphs and Cupids 
and all sorts of things, and one lovely nymph floats in 
the air with a thin gauzy veil which trails along after 
her. The scenery and dresses are superb, and I never 
imagined anything to equal them. The orchestra, too, 
plays divinely. 

The singing is the only thing which could be im- 
proved. The Lucca, who is the grand attraction, is a 
pretty little creature, but I did not find her voice re- 
markable. The Berlinese worship her, and whenever 
Lucca sings there is a rush for the tickets. Wachtel 
and Niemann are the star singers among the men. 
Niemann I have not heard, but Wachtel we should 
not rave over in America. I am in doubt whether 
indeed the Germans know what the best singing is. 
They have most wonderful choruses, but when it 
comes to soloists they have none that are really great 
— like Parepa and Adelaide Phillips ; at least, that is 
my judgment after hearing the best singers in Berlin, 
though as the voice is not my "instrument," I will 
not be too confident about it. Everything else is so 
far beyond what we have at home that perhaps I un- 
consciously expect the climax of all — the solo sing- 
ing, to be proportionally finer also. 

They have beautiful ballet-dancers here, though. 
There is one little creature named Fraulein David 
who is a wonderful artist. She does such steps that 
it turns one's head to see her. She is as light as down, 
and so extremely graceful that when you watch her 



TAUSIG. 35 



floating about to the enchanting ballet music, it is too 
captivating. There were four other dancers nearly 
as good, who were all dressed exactly alike in white 
dresses trimmed with pink satin. They would come 
out first, and dance all together, sometimes separately 
and sometimes forming a figure in the middle of the 
stage. Then suddenly little David, who was dressed 
in white and blue, would bound forward. The others 
would immediately break up and retire to the side of 
the stage, and she would execute a wonderful pas seul. 
Then she would retire, and the others would come 
forward again, and so it went. It wa-s perfectly beau- 
tiful. Finally they all danced together and did 
everything exactly alike, though little David could 
always bend lower, and take the " positions " (as we 
used to say at Dio Lewis's,) better than all the rest. 

On Friday I am going to hear Rubinstein play. I 
suppose he will give a beautiful concert, as he and 
Billow, Tausig and Clara Schumann are the grand 
celebrities now on the piano, Liszt having given up 
playing in public. After our lesson was over yester- 
day, Ehlert took his leave, and left us to wait for 
Tausig — my dear ! — who was to hear us each play. 
He came in very late, and just before it was time to 
give his own lesson. He is precisely like the photo- 
graph I sent you, but is veiy short indeed — too short, 
in fact, for good looks — but he has a remarkably 
vi\id expression of the eyes. He came in, and, 
scarcely looking at us, and without taking the trouble 
to bow even, he turned on me and said, imperiously, 
" Spielen Sie mir JEtwas vor. (Play something for 



36 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

me.)" I got up and played first an Etude, and then he 
asked for the scales, and after I had played a few he told 
me I " had talent," and to come to his lessons, and I 
would learn much. I went accordingly the next after- 
noon. There were two girls only in the class, but they 
were both far advanced. I had never heard either of 
them play before. The second one played a fearfully 
difficult concerto by Chopin, which I once heard from 
Mills. It is exquisitely beautiful, and she did it very 
well. From time to time Tausig would sweep her off 
the stool, and play himself, and he is indeed a perfect 
wonder ! If, as they say, Liszt's trill is " like the war- 
ble of a bird," his is as much so. It is not surprising 
that he is so celebrated, and I long to hear him in 
concert, where he will do full justice to his powers. 
He thrills you to the very marrow of your bones. He 
is divorced from his wife, and I think it not improbable 
that she could not live with him, for he looks as 
haughty and despotic as Lucifer, though he has a 
very winning way with him when he likes. His play- 
ing is spoken of as sans pareil. 

I spent a very pleasant Christmas. The family had 
a pretty little tree, and we all gave each other presents. 
It was charming to go out in the streets the week 
before. The Germans make the greatest time over 
Christmas, and the streets are full of Christmas trees, 
the shops are crammed with lovely things, and there 
are little booths erected all along the sidewalks 
filled with toys. They have special cakes and con- 
fections that they prepare only at this season. 



CHAPTER III. 



Tausig and Rubinstein. Tausig's Pupils, The Bancrofts. A 

German Radical. 



Berlin, February 8, 1870. 
I have heard both Rubinstein and Tansig in concert 
since I last wrote. They are both wonderful, but in 
quite a different way. Rubinstein has the greatest 
power and abandon in playing that you can imagine, 
and is extremely exciting. I never saw a man to whom 
it seemed so easy to play. It is as if he were just 
sporting with the piano, and could do what he pleased 
with it. Tausig, on the contrary, is extremely 
restrained, and has not quite enthusiasm enough, but 
he is absolutely perfect, and plays Avith the greatest 
expression. He is pre-eminent in grace and delicacy 
of execution, but seems to hold back his power in 
a concert room, which is very singular, for when he 
plays to his classes in the conservatory he seems all 
passion. His conception is so very refined that some- 
times it is a little too much so, while Rubinstein is 
occasionally too precipitate. I have not yet decided 
which I like best, but in my estimation Clara Schu- 
mann as a whole is superior to either, alt-hough she 
has not their unlimited technique. 

(37) 



38 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

This was Tausig's programme : 

1. Senate Op. 53. .... Beethoven. 

2. a. Bourree Bach. 

b. Presto Scherzando, - - - Mendelssohn. 

c. Barcarole Op. 60, - - j 

d. Ballade Op. 47, - - ( . Chopin. 

e. Zwei Mazurkas Op. 59 u 33, ) 

f. Aufforderung zum Tanz, - - Weber. 



Schumann. 



3. Kreisleriana Op. IG, ) 

8 Phantasie Stiicke. ) ' ' 

4. a. Standchen von Shakespeare ^ 

nach Schubert, >• Liszt, 

b. Ungarische Rhapsodic, ) 

Tausig's octave playing is the most extraordinary I 
ever heard. The last great effect on his programme 
was in the Rhapsody by Liszt, in an octave varia- 
tion. He first played it so pianissimo that you could 
only just hear it, and then he repeated the variation 
and gave it tremendously forte. It was colossal ! 
His scales surpass Clara Schumann's, and it seems as 
if he played with velvet fingers, his touch is so very soft. 
He played the great C major Sonata by Beethoven — 
Moscheles' favorite, you knoAv. His conception of it 
was not brilliant, as I expected it would be, but very 
calm and dreamy, and the first movement especially 
he took very piano. He did it most beautifully, but 
I was not quite satisfied with the last movement, for I 
expected he would make a grand climax with 'those 
passionate trills, and he did not. Chopin he plays 
divinely, and that little Bourree of Bach's that I used 
to play, was magical. He played it like lightning, and 
made it perfectly bewitching. 



LITTLE TIMANOFF. 39 

Altogether, he is a great man. But Clara Schu- 
mann always puts herself en rapport with you immedi- 
ately. Tausig and Rubinstein do not sway you as she 
does, and, therefore, I think she is the greater inter- 
preter, although I imagine the Germans would not 
agree with me. Tausig has such a little hand that I 
wonder he has been able to acquire his immense vu*- 
tuosity. He is only thirty years old, and is much 
younger than Rubinstein or Billow. 

The day after Tausig's concert I went, as usual, to 
hear him give the lesson to his best class of girls. I 
got there a little before the hour, and the girls were 
in the dressing-room Avaiting for the young men to be 
through with their lesson. They were talking about 
the concert. " Was it not beautiful ?" said little Tim- 
anoff, to me ; " I did not sleep the whole night after it !" 
— a touch of sentiment that quite surprised me in that 
small personage, and made me feel some compunc- 
tions, as I had slept soundly myself. " I have prac- 
ticed five hours to-day already," she added. Just then 
the young men came out of the class-room and we 
passed into it. Tausig was standing by the piano. 
" Begin !" said he, to Timanoff, more shortly even than 
usual ; " I trust you have brought me a study this 
time." He always insists upon a study in addition to 
the piece. Timanoif replied in the affirmative, and 
proceeded to open Chopin's Etudes. She played the 
great A minor " Winter Wind " study, and most mag- 
nificently, too, starting off with the greatest brilliancy 
and "go." I was perfectly amazed at such a feat 
from such a child, and expected that Tausig would 



40 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

exclaim with admiration. .Not so that Rhadaman- 
thus. He heard it through without comment or 
correction, and when Timanoff had finished, simply 
remarked very composedly, " So ! Have you taken 
the next Etude, also?" as if the great A minor were 
not enough for one meal ! It is eight pages long to 
begin with, and there is no let-up to the difficulty all 
the way [through. Afterward, hoAvever, he told the 
young men that he " could not have done it better " 
himself. 

Tausig is so hasty and impatient that to be in his 
classes must be a fearful ordeal. He will not bear the 
slightest fault. The last time I went into his class to 
hear him teach he was dreadful. Fraulein H. began, 
and she has remarkable talent, and is far beyond me. 
She would not play piano enough to suit him, and 
finally he stamped his foot at her, snatched her hand 
from the piano, and said : '^'^ Will you play/)m?20 or 
not, for if not we will go no farther?" The second 
girl sat down and played a few lines. He made her 
begin over again several times, and finally came up 
and took her music away and slapped it down on the 
piano, — " You have been studying this for weeks and 
you can't play a note of it ; practice it for a month 
and then you can bring it to me again," he said. 

The third was Fraulein Timanoff, who is a lit- 
tle genius, I think. She brought a Sonata by Schu- 
bert — the lovely one in A minor — and by the way he 

behaved Tausig must have a particular feeling about 
that particular Sonata. Timanoff began running it 
off in her usual nimble style, having practiced it evi- 



TAUSIG TEACHING. 41 

dently every minute of the time when she was not 
asleep, since the hist lesson. She had not proceeded 
far down the first page when he stopped her, and began 
to fuss over the expression. She began again, but 
this time with no better luck. A third time, but still 
he was dissatisfied, though he suffered her to go on a 
little farther. He kept stopping her every moment 
in the most tantalizing and exasperating manner. If 
it had been I, I should have cried, but Timanoff is 
well broken, and only flushed deeply to the very tips of 
her small ears. From an apple blossom she changed 
to a carnation. Tausig grew more and more savage, 
and made her skip whole pages in his impatience. 
" Play here !" he would say, in the most imperative tone, 
pointing to a half or whole page farther on. " This I 
cannot hear I — Go on farther I — It is too bad to be 
listened to !" Finally, he struck the music with the 
back of his hand, and exclaimed, in a despairing way, 
" Kind^ es liegt eine Seele darin. Weiss du nicht es 
liegt eine Seele darin f (Child, there's a soul in the 
piece. Don't you know there is a sowHn it?)" To 
the little Timanoff, who has no soul, and who is not 
sufficiently experienced to counterfeit one, this speech 
evidently conveyed no particular idea. She ran on as 
glibly as ever till Tausig could endure no more, and 
shut up the music. I was much disappointed, as it 
was new to me, and I like to hear Timanoff 's little 
fingers tinkle over fhe keys, "Seele" or no "Seele." 
She has a most accurate and dainty way of doing 
everything, and somehow, in her healthy little brain 
I hardly wish for Seele! 



42 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



Last of all Friiulein L. played, and she alone suited 
Tausig. She is a Swede, and is the best scholar he 
has, but she has such frightfully ugly hands, and 
holds them so terribly, that when I look at her I can- 
not enjoy her playing. Tausig always praises her very 
much, and she is tremendously ambitious. 

ft/ 

Tausig has a charming face, full of expression and 
very sensitive. He is extremely sharp-sighted, and 
has eyes in the back of his head, I believe. He is far 
too small and too despotic to be fascinating, however, 
though he has a sort of captivating way with him 
when he is in a good humor. 

I was dreadfully sorry to hear of poor Gottschalk's 
death. He had a golden touch, and equal to any in 
the world, I think. But what a romantic way to die I 
— to fall senseless at his instrument, while he was 
playing ''La Morten It was very strange. If any- 
thing more is in the papers about him you must send 
it to me, for the infatuation that I and 99,999 other 
American girls once felt for him, still lingers in my 
breast ! 

On Saturday night I went for the first time to hear 
the Berlin Symphony Kapelle. It is composed only 
of artists, and is the most splendid music imaginable. 
De Ahna, for instance, is one of the violinists, and he 
is not far behind Joachim. We have no conception 
of such an orchestra in America.* The Philharmonic 
of "N"ew York approaches it, but is still a long way off. 
This orchestra is so perfect, and plays with such pre- 

*Thi8 was written before the full development of the Thomas Orchestra. 
The writer had heard it only in its infancy. 



BERLIN SYMPHONY KAPELLE. 48 

cision, that you can't realize that there are any perform- 
ers at all. It is just a great wave of sound that rolls 
over you as smooth as glass. As the concert halls are 
much smaller here, the music is much louder, and 
every man not only plays piano and forte where it is 
marked, but he draws the tone out of his violin. They 
have the greatest pathos, consequently^, in the soft 
parts, and overwhelming power in the loud. Where 
great expression is required the conductor almost 
ceases to beat time, and it seems as if the performers 
took it ad libitum; but they understand each other 
so well that they play like one man. It is too ecstatic I I 
observed the greatest difference in the horn playing. 
Instead of coming in in a monotonous sort of way 
as it does at home, and always with the same degree 
of loudness, here, when it is solo, it begins round and 
smooth and full, and then gently modulates until the 
tone seems to sigh itself out, dying away at last ^vith 
a little tremolo that is perfectly melting. I never 
before heard such an effect. When the trumpets 
come in it is like the crack of doom, and you should 
hear the way they play the drums. I never was satis- 
fied with the way they strike the drums in New York 
and Boston, for it always seemed as if they thought 
the parchment would break. Here, sometimes they 
give such a sharp stroke that it startles me, though, 
of course, it is not often. But it adds immensely to 
the accent, and makes your heart beat, I can tell you. 
They played Schubert's great symphony, and Beetho- 
ven's in B major, and I could scarcely believe my 
own ears at the difference between this orchestra and 
ours. It is as great as between and Tausig. 



44 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY 



Berlin, March 4, 1870. 

Tausig is off to Eiissia to-day on a concert tour, and 
will not return until the 1st of May. Out of six 
months he has been in Berlin about two and a half I 
However, as I am not yet in his class it doesn't affect 
me much, but I should think his scholars would be 
provoked at such long absences. That is the worst 
of having such a great artist for a master. I believe 
we are to have no vacation in the summer though, 
and that he has promised to remain here from May 
until November without going off. Ehlert and Tau- 
sig have had a grand quarrel, and Ehlert is going to 
leave the conservatory in April. I am very sorry, for 
he is an admirable teacher, and I like him extremely. 

We had another Musical Reading on Sunday, at 
which I played, but all the conservatory classes were 
there, and all the teachers, with Tausig, also, so it was 
a pretty hard ordeal. The girls said I turned deadly 
pale when I sat down to the ]3iano, and well I might, for 
here you cannot play anything that the scholars have not 
either played themselves or are perfectly familiar with, 
so they criticise you without mercy. Tausig plays so 
magnificently that you knoAV beforehand that a thing 
can never be more than comparatively good in his 
eyes. Fritulein L. is the only one of his pupils that 
plays to suit him. I do not like her playing so much 
myself, because it sounds as if she had tried to imitate 
him exactly — which she probably does. It does not 
seem spontaneous, and she is an affected creature. 
They all think ^ the world ' of her at the conservatory. 



A STRANGE GIRL. 45 

and I suppose she is quite extraordinary ; but I prefer 
Fraulein Timanoff — '' die kleine Person," as Tau- 
sig calls her — and she is, indeed, a " little person." 
On Sunday Fraulein L. played the first part of a 
Sonata by Chopin, and Tausig was quite enchanted 
with her performance. I thought he was going to 
embrace her, he jumped up so impetuously and ran 
over to her. He declared that it could not be better 
played, and said he would not hear anything else after 
that, and so the school was dismissed, although sev- 
eral had not played that expected to do so. 

Tausig has one scholar who is a very singular 
girl — ^the Fraulein H. I mentioned to you before,, 
who has studied with Billow. She is half French and 
half German, and speaks both languages. She is full 
of talent and cannot be over eighteen, but she is the 
most intense character, and is a perfect child of nature. 
One can't help smiling at everything she does, be- 
cause she goes at everything so hard and so uncon- 
sciously. When the other girls are playing she folds 
her arms and plays with her fingers against her sides 
all the time, and when her turn comes she seizes her 
music, jumps up, and rushes for the piano as fast 
as she can. She hasn't the least timidity, and on 
Sunday when Tausig called out her name he scarcely 
got the words out before she said, "«7a/' to the great 
amusement of the class (for none of us answered to 
our names) and ran to the piano. 

She sat down with the chair half crooked, and 
almost on the side of it, but she never stopped to 
arrange herself, but dashed off a prelude out of her 



46 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

own head, and then played her piece. When she got 
through she never changed countenance, but was back 
in her seat before you could say " Jack Robinson." 
She is as passionate as Tausig, and so they usually 
have a scene over her lesson. He is always either 
half amused at her or very angry, and is terribly 
severe with her. When he stamps his foot at her she 
makes up a face, and the blood rushes up into her 
head, and I believe she would beat him if she dared. 
She always plays as impetuously as she does every- 
thing else, and then he stops his ears and tells her she 
makes too much " Spectakel" (his favorite expression). 
Then she begins over again two or three times, but 
always in the same way. He snatches the music from 
the piano and tells her that is enough. Then the class 
bursts out laughing and she goes to her seat and cries. 
But she is too proud to let the other girls see her wipe 
her eyes, and so she sits up straight, and tries to look 
unconcerned, but the tears trickle down her cheeks 
one after the other, and drop off her chin all the rest 
of the hour. By the time she has had a piece for two 
lessons she comes to the third, and at last she has 
managed to tone down enough, and then she plays it 
splendidly. She is a savage creature. The girls tell 
me that one time she sat down to the piano (a concert- 
grand) with such violence as to push the instrument 
to one side, and began to play with such vehemence 
that she burst the sleeve out of her dress behind ! 
She is going to be an artist, and I told her she must 
come to America to give concerts. She said ^' Ja^^ 
and immediately wanted to know where I lived, so she 



RUBINSTEIN. 47 



could come and see me. I think she will make a cap- 
ital concert player, for she is always excited by an 
audience, and she has immense power. I am a 
mere baby to her in strength. Perhaps when she is 
ten years older she will be able to restrain herself 
within just limits, and to put in the light and shade 
as Fraulein L. does. 

Since I last wrote I have been to hear Rubinstein 
again. He is the greatest sensation player I know of, 
and, like Gottschalk, has all sorts of tricks of his own. 
His grand aim is to produce an effect, so it is dread- 
fully exciting to hear him, and at his. last concert the 
first piece he played — a terrific composition by Schu- 
bert — gave me such a violent headache that I couldn't 
hear the rest of the performance with any pleasure. 
He has a gigantic spirit in him, and is extremely 
poetic and original, but for an entire concert he is too 
much. Give me Rubinstein for a few pieces, but 
Tausig for a whole evening. Rubinstein doesn't care 
how many notes he misses, provided he can bring out 
his conception and make it vivid enough. Tausig 
strikes every note with rigid exactness, and perhaps 
his very perfection makes him at times a little cold. 
Rubinstein played Schubert's Erl-Konig, arranged by 
Liszt, gloriously. Where the child is so frightened, 
his hands flew all over the piano, and absolutely made 
it shriek with terror. It was enough to freeze you to 
hear it. 

Last week I went to a party at Mrs. Bancroft's in 
honour of Washington's birth-day, and had a lovely 
time, as I always do when I go there. Bismarck was 



48 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



present, and wore a coat all decorated with stars and 
orders. He is a splendid looking man, and is tall 
and imposing. No one could be kinder than Mr. 
Bancroft. He and Mrs. Bancroft live in a beautiful 
house, furnished in perfect taste and full of lovely 
pictures and things, and they entertain most charm- 
ingly. They seem to do their utmost for the Ameri- 
cans who are in Berlin, and I am very proud of our 
minister. His reputation as our national historian, 
together with his German culture and early German 
associations, all combine to render him an admirable 
representative of our country to this haughty king- 
dom, and I hear that he is A^ery popular with its self- 
satisfied citizens. As for Mrs. Bancroft, one could 
hardly be more elegant, or better suited to the posi- 
tion. Mr. Bancroft is passionately fond of music, and 
knows what good music is, — which is of course an 
additional title to my high opinion ! 

The other day Herr J. called for me to go and take 
a walk through the Thier-Garten, and see the skating. 
It was the first time I had been there, though it is not 
far from us, and I was delighted with it. It is the 
natural forest, with beautiful walks and drives cut 
through it, and statues here and there. We went to 
see the skating, and it was a lovely sight. The band 
was playing, and ladies and gentlemen were skating in 
time to the waltz. Many ladies skate very elegantly, 
and go along with their hands in their muffs, swaying 
first to one side and then to the other. It is grace 
itself. Carriages and horses pranced slowly around 
the edge of the pond, and at last the Prince and Prin- 



A GERMAN RADICAL. 49 

cess Royal came along, drawn by two splendid black 
horses. 

The carriage stopped and they got out to walk. 
" Now," said I to Herr J., " you must take off your 
hat " — for everybody takes off his hat to the Crown 
Prince. As they passed us he did take it off, but 
blushed up to his ears, which I thought rather odd, 
until he said, in a half -ashamed tone, "That is the first 
time in my life that I ever took off my hat to a Prince." 
" Well, what did you do it for ?" said I. " Because you 
told me to," said he. He is such a red hot republi- 
can, that even such a little act of respect as this grated 
upon him ! I only told him in fun, any way, but I was 
very much amused to see how he took it. He always 
raves over the United States, and says we are the 
greatest country in the world. He is a strange man, 
and you ought to hear his theory of religion. He sets 
the Bible entirely aside — like most German cultivated 
men. We were talking of it one night, and he said, 
" We won't speak of that hlocJchead Peter, stupid fish- 
erman that he was ! but we will pass on to Paul, who 
was a man of some education." David, he calls " that 
rascal David, etc." Of course, I hold to my own belief, 
but I can't help laughing to hear him, it sounds so ridic- 
ulous. The world never had any beginning, he says, 
and there is no resurrection. We live only for the 
benefit of the next generation, and therefore it is nec- 
essary to lead good lives. We inherit the result of 
our father's labours, and our children w^ill inherit ours. 
So we shall go on until the human race comes to a 
state of perfection. "And then what?" said I. Oh — 
41 



50 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

then, he didn't know. Perhaps the world would ex- 
plode, and go off in meteors. " We do know," said he, 
" that there are lost stars. Occasionally a star disap- 
pears and we can't tell what has become of it ; and 
perhaps the earth will become a wandering star, or a 
comet. The intervals between the stars are so great 
as to admit of a world wandering about — and there is 
no police in those regions, I fancy," concluded he, with 
a shrug of his shoulders. ^' Do you really believe that, 
Herr J. ?" I asked. " Oh," said he, " we won't speak 
about beliefs. Now we are speculating V^ He is a delight' 
ful companion, and I think he is scrupulously con- 
scientious. Though he does not profess the Christia» 
faith, he acts up to Christian principles. 



CHAPTER IV. 

Opera and Oratorio in Berlin. A Typical American. Prus- 
sian Rudeness. Conservatory Changes. Easter. 

Berlin, March 20, 1870. 

On Wednesday the Bancrofts most kindly called for me 
to go to the opera with them. They came m then car- 
riage, with two horses and footmen, so it was very jolly, 
and we bowled rapidly through Unter den Linden 
(the Broadway of Berlin), in rather a different manner 
from the pace I usually crawl along in a di'oschkie. They 
had fine opera glasses, of course, and we took our seats 
just as the overture was about to begin, so that every- 
thing was charming except that instead of Lohengrin, 
which we had expected to hear, they had changed the 
opera to Faust, which I had heard the week before. 
Faust is, however, a fascmating opera, and it is beauti- 
fully given here, albeit the Germans stick to it that it 
is Gomiod's Faust and not Goethe's. 

Since I have come here I have a perfect passion for 
going to the opera, for everything is done in such superb 
fashion, and they have the orchestra of the Symphony 
Kapelle, which is so splendid that it could not be better. 
It is a pity the singers are not equally good, but I don't 
beheve Germany is the land of great voices. However, 
the men sing finely, and the prima donnas have much 
talent, and act beautifully. The prima donna on this 
occasion was Malhnger, the rival of Lucca. She is espe- 

(51) 



52 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

cially good as Margaretta. Niemann and Wachtel are 
the great men singers. Wachtel was formerly a coach- 
man, but he has a lovely voice. His acting is not 
remarkable, but Niemann is superb, and he sings and 
acts delightfully. He is very tall and fair, with light 
whiskers, and golden hair crowning a noble head, in truth 
a regular Viking. When he comes out in his crimson 
velvet mantle and crimson cap, with a white plume, and 
begins singing these delicious love songs to Margaretta, 
he is perfectly enchanting ! He and Mallinger throw 
themselves into the long love scene which fills the third 
act, and act it magnificently. It was the first time I 
ever saw a love scene well done. The fourth act is most 
impressive. The curtain rises, and shows the interior of 
a church. The candles are burning on the altar, and 
the priests and acolytes are standing in their proper order 
before it. The organ strikes up a fugue and all the 
peasants come in and kneel down. Then poor Margar- 
etta comes in for refuge, but when she kneels to pray 
a voice is heard which tells her that for her there is 
no refuge or hope in heaven or earth. 

This scene Mallinger does so well that it is nature 
itself. When the voice is heard she gives a shriek, tot- 
ters for a moment, and then falls upon the floor sense- 
less, and 0, so naturally that one is entirely carried away 
by it. The organ takes up the fugue, and the curtain 
drops. The contrast between the two acts makes it all 
the more effective, for in tlie third it is all love and 
flowers and languishing music, and in the fourth one is 
suddenly recalled to the sanctity and severity of the 
church ; also, after the orchestra this subdued fugue on 



READINa GOETHE. 5$ 

the organ makes a very peculiar impression. In the fifth 

act Margaretta is in prison, and Faust and Mephis- 

topheles come to rescue her. This is a powerful scene, 

for at first she hesitates, and thinks she will go with 

them, and then her mind wanders, and she recalls, as in 

a vision, the happy scenes of earlier days. They keep 

urging her, and try to drag her along with them, but at 

last she breaks free from them and cries, " To Thee, 0, 

God, belongs my soul," and falls upon her straw pallet, 

and dies. Then the scene changes, and you see four 

angels gradually floating up to heaven, supporting her 

dead body, while the chorus sings : 

" Christ ist erstanden 
Aus Tod und Banden 
Frieden und Heil verkeisst 
Aller Welt er, die ihn preist."* 

This ends the opera, which is very exciting through- 
out. I am gomg to read the original as soon as I 
know a little more German, so that I shan't have to read 
with a dictionary. I am just getting able to read Goethe 
without one, and think he is the most entrancing writer. 
There never could have been a man who understood 
women so well as he ! His female characters are per- 
fectly captivating, but he is not very flattering to his own 
sex, and generally makes them, m love, (what they are) 
weak and vacillating. 

I met a very agreeable young countryman at a dinner 
the other day — a Mr. P. — and a great contrast to any of 
Goethe's ill-regulated heroes. He was the typical Amer- 

♦Christ is risen out of bond? and death. He promises joy and blessing 
to all the world, which for this glorifies Him. 



54 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



lean, I thought. Wide awake, bright, with a sharp eye 
to business, very republican, with a hearty contempt for 
titles and a great respect for women, practical and clear- 
headed. When the wine was passed round he refused 
it, and said he had never drunk a glass of wine or 
touched tobacco in his life. I was so amused, for he 
looked so young. I said to myself, " probably you are 
just out of college, and are travelling before you settle 
down to a profession." After a while he said something 
about his wife. I was a little surprised, but still I 
thought "perhaps you have only been married a few 
months." A little further on he mentioned his children. 
I was still more surprised, but thouglit he couldn't have 
more than two ; but when Mrs. B. asked him how many 
he had, and he said " three living and two dead," adding 
very gravely, " I have been twice left childless," I could 
scarcely help bursting out laughing, for I had thought 
him about twenty-one, and these revelations of a wife 
and numerous family seemed too preposterous I — But it 
was very nice to see such a model countryman, too. It 
is such men that make the American greatness. 

After dinner I went with my hostess to hear Men- 
delssohn's Oratorio of St. Paul. It is a great work, a 
httle tedious as a whole, but with wonderfully beautiful 
numbers interspersed through it. There are several 
lovely chorales in it. I was disappointed in the perform- 
ance, though, for in the first place there is no organ in 
the Sing-Akademie, and I consider the effect of the 
organ and the drums indispensable to an oratorio ; and 
in the second, the solos all seemed to me indifferently 
sung. The choruses were faultless, however. They 



BOKSEG'S GREENHOUSE. 55 

understand how to di'ill a chorus here ! Next Friday I 
am going to Haydn's "Jahreszeiten," which I never hap- 
pened to hear in Boston. 

Grermany is a great place for birds and flowers. All 
winter long we have quantities of saucy-looking little 
sparrows here, and they have the most thievish expres- 
sion when they fly down for a crumb. I sometimes 
put crumbs on my window-sill, and in a short time 
they are sure to see them. Then they stand on the 
edge of a roof opposite, and look from side to side for 
a long time, the way birds do. At last they make up 
their minds, swoop down on the sill, stretch their 
heads, give a bold look to see if I am about, and 
then snatch a crumb and fly off with it. They never 
can get over their own temerity, and always give a 
chirp as they fly away with the crumb ; whether it is 
a note of triumph over their success, or an expression 
of nervousness, I cannot decide. One cold day I 
passed a tree, on every twig of which was a bird. They 
were holding a political meeting, I am sure, for they 
were all jabbering away to each other in the most 
excited manner, and each one had his breast bulged 
out, and his feathers ruffled. They were '' awfully 
cunning !" 

On Tuesday I went out to Borsig's greenhouse. He 
is an immensely rich man here, who makes a specialty 
of flowers. He lives some way out of Berlin, and has 
the largest conservatories here. The inside of the 
portico which leads into them is all covered with ivy, 
which creeps up on the inside of the walls, and covers 
them completely. When we came within, the flowers 



56 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

were arranged in perfect banks all along the length of 
the greenhouse, so that you saw one continuous line 
of brilliant colours, and oh — the perfume ! The hya- 
cinths predominated in all shades, though there were 
many other flowers, and many of them new to me. 
Camelias were trained, vine fashion, all over the 
sides of the greenhouse, and hundreds of white and 
pink blossoms were depending from them. All the 
centre of the greenhouse was a bed of rich earth cov- 
ered with a little delicate plant, and at intervals 
planted with azalea bushes so covered with blossoms 
that one could scarcely see the leaves. At one end 
was a very large cage filled with brilliant birds, and 
at the other was a lovely fountain of white marble — 
Venus and Cupid supported on three shells. But I 
was most struck by the tree ferns, -which I had never 
before seen. They were perfectly magnificent, and 
were arranged on the highest side of the greenhouse 
with many other rare plants most artistically mingled 
in. After we had finished looking at the flowers we 
went into a second house, where were palm trees, ferns, 
cacti and all sorts of strange things growing, but all 
placed with the same taste. It was a beautiful sight, 
and I never had any idea of the garden of Eden be- 
fore. I must try and bring home a pot of the " Violet 
of the Alps." It is the most delicate little flower, and 
looks as if it gi'ew on a high, cold mountain. 



HAYDN'S JAHHESZEITEN. 57 



Berlin, April 1, 1870. 

To-day is April Fool's day, and the first real month of 
spring is begun. I have not fooled anybody yet, but as 
soon as dinner is ready, I shall rush to the window and 
cry, "There goes the king!" Of course they will^ 
all run to see him, and then I shall get it off on the 
whole family at once. I shall wait until the " kleiner 
Hans," Frau W.'s son, comes home. I call him the 
" Kleinen " in derision, for in reahty he is immense. I 
have been very much struck with the lieight of the peo- 
ple here. As a rule they are much taller than Amer- 
icans, and sometimes one meets perfect giants in the 
streets. The Prussian men are often semi-insolent 
ill their street manners to women, and sometimes nearly 
knock you off the sidewalk, from simply not choosing to 
sf>e you. I suppose this arrogance is one of the benefits 
of their military training ! They v:iU have the middle 
of the walk where the stone flag is laid, no matter what 
you have to step off into ! 

I went to hear Haydn's Jahreszeiten a few evenings 
since, and it is the most charming work — such a happy 
combination of grave and gay ! He wrote it when he 
was seventy years old, and it is so popular that one has 
great difficulty in getting a ticket for it. The salon was 
entirely filled, so that I had to take a seat in the loge, 
where the places are pretty poor, though I went early, 
too. The work is sung like an oratorio, in arias, recita- 
tives and choruses, and is interspersed with charming 
little songs. It represents the four seasons of the year, 
and each part is prefaced by a little overture appropriate 



58 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY: 

to the passing of each season into the next. The reci- 
tatives are sung by Hanna and Lucas, who are lovers, 
and by Simon, who is a friend of both, apparently. 
The autumn is the prettiest of the four parts, for it 
represents first the joy of the country people over the 
harvests and over the fruits. Then comes a splendid 
-chorus in praise of Industry. After that follows a little 
love dialogue between Hanna and Lucas, then a descrip- 
tion of a hunt, then a dance ; lastly the wine is brought, 
and the whole ends with a magnificent chorus in praise 
of mne. The dance is too pretty for anything, for the 
whole chorus sings a waltz, and it is the gayest, most 
oaptivating composition imaginable. The choruses here 
are so splendidly drilled that they give the expression in 
a very vivid manner, and produce beautiful effects. All 
the parts are perfectly accurate and well balanced. But 
the solo singers are, as I have remarked in former letters, 
for the most part, ordinary. 

I took my lavst lesson of Ehlert yesterday. I am very 
sorry that he and Tausig have quarrelled, for he is a 
splendid teacher. He has taught me a great deal, and 
precisely the things that I wanted to know and could not 
find out for myself. For instance, those twists and turns 
of the hands that artists have, their way of striking the 
<jhords, and many other little technicalities which one 
must have a master to learn. He always seemed to take 
great pleasure in teaching me, and I am most grateful to 
him for his encouragement. I think Tausig behaves 
vei*y strangely to be off for such a long time. He does 
not return until the first of May, and all this month we 
are to be taught by one of his best scholars until he 



THE "PASSION" MUSIC. 59 

comes back and engages another teacher. He has just 
given concerts at St. Petersburg, and I am told that at 
a single one he made six thousand rubles. They are in 
an immense enthusiasm there over him. 

Last night I went with Mr. B. to hear Bach's Passion 
Music. Anything to equal that last chorus I never heard 
from voices. I felt as if it ought to go on forever, and 
could not bear to have it end. That chorale, "0 Sacred 
Head now wounded," is taken from it, and it comes ui 
twice; the second time with different harmonies and 
without accompaniment. It is the most exquisite thing ; 
you feel as if you would like to die when you hear it. 
But the last chorus carries you straight up to heaven. It 
begins: 

"We sit down in tears 
And call to thee in the grave, 
Rest soft — rest soft." 

It represents the rest of our Saviour after the stone 
had been rolled before the tomb, and it is divine. Every- 
body in the chorus was dressed in black, and almost 
every one in the audience, so you can imagine what a 
sombre scene it was. This is the custom here, and on 
Good Friday, when the celebrated "Tod Jesu" by 
G-raun, is performed,theygo in black without exception. 



Berlin, April 24, 1870. 
I thought of you all on Easter Sunday, and won- 
dered what sort of music you were having. I did not 
go to the English church, as is my wont, but to the 



60 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

Dom, which is the great cliurch here, and is where 
all the court goes. It is an extremely ugly church, 
and much like one of our old Congregational meeting- 
houses ; but they have a superb choir of two hundred 
men and boys which is celebrated all over Europe. 
Haupt (Mr. J. K. Paine's former master) is the organ- 
ist, and of course they have a very large organ. I 
knew, as this was Easter, that the music would be 
magnificent, so I made A. W. go there with me, much 
against her will, for she declared we should get no 
seat. The Germans don't trouble themselves to go to 
church very often, but on a feast day they turn out 
in crowds. 

We got to the church only twenty minutes before 
service began, and I confess I was rather daunted as I 
saw the swarms of people not only going in but coming 
out, hopeless of getting into the church. However, I 
determined to push on and see what the chances were, 
and with great difficulty we got up stairs. There is a 
lobby that runs all around the church, just as in tlie 
Boston Music Hall. All the doors between the gal- 
lery and the lobby were open, and each was crammed 
full of people. I thought the best thing we could do 
would be to stand there until we got tired, and listen 
to the music, and then go. Finally, the sexton came 
along, and A. asked him if he could not give us two 
seats ; he shrugged his shoulders and said, "Yes, if you 
choose to pass through the crowd." We boldly said 
we would, although it looked almost hopeless, and 
then made our way through it, followed by muttered 
execrations. At last the sexton unlocked a door. 



THE " DOM CHOIR." 61 

and gave us two excellent seats, and there was plenty 
of room for a dozen more people ; but I don't doubt 
he frightened them away just as he would have done 
us if he could. He locked us in, and there we sat 
quite in comfort. 

At ten the choir began to sing a psalm. They 
sit directly over the chancel, and a gilded frame work 
conceals them completely from the congregation. 
They have a leader who conducts them, and they sing 
in most perfect time and tune, entirely without accom- 
paniment. The voices are tender and soft rather 
than loud, and they weave in and out most beautifully. 
There are a great many different parts, and the voices 
keep striking in from various points, which produces 
a delicious effect, and makes them sound like an angel 
choir far up in the sky. After they had finished the 
psalm the organ burst out with ,a tremendous great 
chord, enough to make you jump, and then played a 
chorale, and there were also trombones which took the 
melody. Then all the congregation sang the chorale, 
and the choir kept silence. You cannot imagine how 
easy it is to sing when the trombones lead, and the 
effect is overwhelming with the organ, especially in 
these grand old chorales. I could scarcely bear it, it 
was so very exciting. 

There w^as a great deal of music, as it was Easter 
Sunday, and it was done alternately by the choir and 
the congregation ; but generally the Dom choir only 
sings one psalm before the service begins, and there- 
fore I seldom take the trouble to go there. The rest 
of the music is entirely congregational, and they only 



63 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

have trombones on great occasions. We sat close by 
the chancel, and the great wax candles flared on the 
altar below us, and the Lutheran clergyman read the 
G-erman so that it sounded a good deal like Latin. I 
was quite surprised to see how much like Latin Ger- 
man could sound, for it has these long, rolling words, 
and it is just as pompous. Altogether it made a 
strange but splendid impression. I thought if they 
had only had their choir in the chancel, and in white 
surplices, it would have been much more beautiful, 
but perhaps the music would not have sounded so fine 
as when the singers were overhead. The Berlin 
churches all look as if religion was dying out here, so 
old and bare and ill-cared for, and so few in number. 
They are only redeemed by the great castles of organs 
which they generally have ; and it is a difficult thing 
to get the post of organist here. One must be an 
experienced and well-known musician to do it. They 
sing no chants in the service, but only chorales. 

To-night is the last Royal Symphony Concert of this 
season, and of course I shall go. This wonderful or- 
chestra carries me completely away. It is too mar- 
vellous how they play I such expression, such elan! I 
heard them give Beethoven's Leonora Overture last 
week in such a fashion as fairly electrified me. This 
overture sums up the opera of Fidelio, and in one part 
of it, just as the hero is going to be executed, you hear 
the post-horn sound which announces his delivery. 
This they play so softly that you catch it exactly as if 
it came from a long distance, and you cannot believe 



BERINGEK. 6,^ 



it comes from the orchestra. It makes you think of 
"the horns of elf -land faintly blowing." 

Tausig is expected back this week, and he has in- 
deed been gone long enough. He is going to give a 
lesson every Monday to the best scholars who are not 
in his class, and as I stand at the head of these I hope 
to have a lesson from him every week. This would 
suit me better than two, as he is so dreadfully exact- 
ing, and it will give me time to learn a piece well. 
Then I should have my regular lesson beside from Mr. 
Beringer, or whoever he appoints to take Ehlert's place. 
Beringer, who is a young man about twenty -five years 
old, has turned out a capital teacher, and I am 
learning much with him. He plays beautifully 
himself, and is a great favorite of T9jusig's. He has 
been with him so long that he teaches his method ex- 
cellently, and gives me pieces that he has studied with 
him. I believe he is to come out at the Gewandhaus, 
in Leipsic, in October, and after that he will settle in 
London. 



CHAPTER V. 

The Thier-Garten. A Military Review. Charlottenburg. 
Tausig. Berlin in Summer. Potsdam and Babelsberg. 

Berlin, June 5, 1870. 

We've had the vilest possible weather this spring, but 
Berlin looks perfectly lovely now. There are a great 
many gardens attached to the houses here. Every- 
thing is in bloom, and is laden with the scent of lilacs 
and apple blossoms. The streets are planted with lin- 
dens and horse chestnut trees, and on the fashionable 
street bordering on the Thier-Garten, all the houses 
have little lawns in front, carpeted with the most daz- 
zling green grass, and rising out of it are solid banlcs 
of flowers. The shrubs are planted according to their 
height, close together, and one behind the other, and 
as they are all in blossom you see these great masses of 
colour. It is like a gigantic bouquet growing up be- 
fore you. 

The Thier-Garten is perfectly beautiful. It is so 
charming to come upon this unfenced wood right in 
the heart of an immense city, with roads and paths 
cut all through it, and each over-arched with vivid 
green as far as the eye can reach. When you see the 
gay equipages driving swiftly through it, and ladies 
and gentlemen glancing amid the trees on horseback, 
it is very romantic. 

Frau W.'s brother, "Uncle S." as I call him, 

(64) 



CHARLOTTENBURG. 65 

announced the other day that he was going to 
take us to Charlottenburg. I had often been told that 
I must go there and see the " Mausoleum," but ar you 
know I never ask for explanations, this did not coi, ^y 
any particular idea to my mind, and I started out .jn 
this excursion in my usual state of blissful ignor- 
ance. We took two droschkies for our part/, and 
meandered slowly through the Thier-Garten and along 
the Charlottenburg road till we arrived at our point of 
destination. This was announced from afar by an 
absurd statue poised on one toe on the top of the 
castle which stands in front of the park containing 
the Mausoleum. 

The first thing we did on alighting was to go into a 
little beer garden close by to take coffee. It was a per- 
fect afternoon, and the trees and flowers were in all 
their June glory. We sat down around one of those 
delightful tables which they always have under the 
trees in Germanv. The coffee was soon served, hot 
and strong, and Uncle S. took out a cigar to complete 
his enjoyment. Then we began to stroll. We went 
through a gate into the grounds surrounding the castle, 
and after passing through the orangery emerged into 
a garden, which soon spread into a beautiful park 
filled with magnificent trees, and with beds of flowers 
cut in the smooth turf for some distance along the 
borders of the avenues. We turned to the right (in- 
stead of to the left, which would have brought us di- 
rectly to the Mausoleum) in order to see the flowers 
first, then the river, and then come round by the pond 
where the carp are kept. 
5 



66 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

The Germans certainly understand laying out parks 
to perfection. They are not too rigidly kept, and there 
is an air of nature about everything. This Charlot- 
tenburg park is a particularly fascinating one. A dense 
avenue borders the Eiver Spree, which is broad at tliis 
point, and flows gloomily and silently along. The 
branches of the trees overhang the stream, and also 
lock together across the walk, forming a leafy avenue 
before and behind you. We met very few people, 
scarcely any one, in fact, and the songs of the birds 
were the only sounds that broke the all-pervading 
calm. The path finally left the river, and we came 
out on an open spot, where was a pretty view of the 
castle through a little cut in the trees. We sat down 
on a bench and looked about us for awhile, and then 
went up on the bridge which crosses the pond where 
the carp are kept. The Germans always feed these 
carp religiously, and that is a regular part of the ex- 
cursion. The fish are very old, many of them, and we 
saw some hoary old fellows rise lazily to the surface 
and condescend bo swallow the morsels of cake that 
we threw them. They were evidently accustomed to 
good living, and, like all swells, considered it only their 
due ! 

At last we came gradually round towards the Mau- 
soleum. An avenue of hemlocks led to it — " Trauer- 
Baume (mourning-trees)," as the Germans call them, 
and it was an exquisite touch of sentiment to make 
this avenue of these dark funereal evergreens. At first 
you see nothing, for the avenue is long, and you turn 
into it gay and smiling with the influence of the birds. 



THE "LEGENDED TOMB." 67 

the trees, and the flowers fresh upon you. But the 

drooping boughs of the sombre hemlocks soon begin 

to take effect, and the feeling that comes over one 

when about half w^ay down it is certainly peculiar. It 

seems as if one were passing between a row of tall and 

silent sentinels watching over the abode of death ! 

Involuntarily you begin repeating from Edgar Poe's 

haunting poem : 

" Then I pacified Psyche and kissed her, 
And conquered her scruples and gloom, 
And banished her scruples and gloom, 
And we passed to the end of the vista 
Till we came to the door of a tomb ; 
And I said, ' What is written, sweet sister, 
On the door of this legended tomb ?' 
And she said, ' Ulalume, Ulalume, 
'Tis the vault of thy lost Ulalume." 

And so, too, does your eye become fixed upon a door 
at the end of this vista, which comes nearer and nearer 
until finally the Mausoleum takes form round it in 
the shape of a little Greek temple of polished brown 
marble. A small flower garden lies in front of it, and 
it would look inviting enough if one did not know 
what it was. Two officials stand ready to receive you 
and conduct you up the steps. 

Within these walls a royal pair lie buried — King 
Friedrich Wilhelm III. and his beautiful wife, Luisa, 
who so calmly Avithstood the bullying of Napoleon I. 
and for whom the Prussians cherish such a chivalrous 
affection. They are entombed under the front portion 
of the temple, and two slabs in the pavement mark 
their resting places. These are lit from above by a 



68 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

window in the roof filled witli blue glass, which 
throws a subdued and solemn light into the marble 
chamber. You walk past them to the other end of 
the temple, which is cruciform in sha2:)e, go up one 
step between pillars, and there, in the little white 
transept, lie upon two snowy marble couches the sculp- 
tured forms of the dead king and queen side by side. 
Though this apartment is lit by side windows of plain 
glass high up on the walls, so that it is full of the 
white daylight, yet the blueish light from the outer 
room is reflected into it just enough to heighten the 
delicacy of the marble and to bestow on everything 
an unearthly aspect. 

Queen Luisa was celebrated for her beauty, and 
the sculptor Ranch, who knew and adored her, has 
breathed it all into the stone. There she lay, as if 
asleep, her head easily pressing the pillow, her feet 
crossed and the outlines of her exquisite form veiled 
but not concealed by the thin tissue-like drapery. It 
covered even the little feet, but they seemed to define 
themselves all the more daintily through the muslin. 
There is no look of death about her face. She seems 
more like a bonny " Queen o' the May," reclining with 
closed eyes upon her flowery bed. The statue has been 
criticised by some on account of this entire absence of 
the " beaute de la mort." There is no transfigured or 
glorified look to it. It is simply that of a beautiful 
woman in deep repose. But it seems to me that 
this is a matter of taste, and that the artist had a per- 
fect right to represent her as he most felt she was. 
The king's statue is clothed in full uniform, and he 



THE MEMORIAL STATUES. 69 

looks very striking, too, lying there in all the dignity 
of manhood and of kingship, with the drapery of his 
military cloak falling about him. His features are 
delicate and regular, and he is a fit counterpart to his 
lovely consort. Against the back wall an altar is 
elevated on some steps, and there is an endless fasci- 
nation in leaning against it and gazing down on those 
two august forms stretched out so still before you. 
On either side of the statues are magnificent tall 
candelabra of white marble of very rich and beauti- 
ful design, and appropriate inscriptions from the 
German Bible run round the carved and diapered 
marble walls. Altogether, this garden-park, with its 
river, fts Mausoleum, its avenue of hemlocks, and its 
glorious statues of the king and queen, is one of the 
most exquisite and ideal conceptions imaginable. As 
we returned it was toward sunset. The evening wind 
was sighing through the tall trees and the waving 
grasses. An indefinable influence hovered in the air. 
The supernatural seemed to envelop us, and instinct- 
ively we hastened a little as we retraced our steps. 

When we emerged from the hemlock avenue Uncle 
S., I thought, seemed rather relieved, for the contem- 
plation of a future life is not particularly sympathetic 
to him ! After he had asked me if I did not think the 
Mausoleum " sehr schon (very beautiful)," and had 
ascertained that I did think so, he restored his equilib- 
rium by taking out another cigar, which he lighted, 
and we leisurely made our way through the garden to 
our droschkies and drove home. It was quite dark as 
we were coming through the Thier Garten, and it 



70 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

seemed like a forest. The stars were shining through 
the branches overhead, and their soothing light gave 
the last poetic touch to a lovely day. 



Berlin, June 26, 1870. 

Last week the Emperor of Austria was here, and 
they had a parade in his honour. The B.'s took me 
in their carriage to see it. We drove to a large plain 
outside the city, and there we saw a mock battle, and 
all the manoeuvers of an army — how they advance 
and retreat, and how they form and deploy. There 
was a continual fire of musketry and artillery, and it was 
very exciting. The enemy was only imaginary, but 
the attacking party acted just as if there were one, 
and at last it ended with the taking by storm, Avhich 
was done by the attacking party rushing on with ojie 
continued cheer, or rather yell, from one end of the 
lines to the other. Then they all broke up, the bands 
played the Russian Hymn, the King and the Emperor 
mounted horses and led otf a great body of cavalry, 
and away we all clattered home — carriages and horses 
all together. It was a great sight, and I enjoyed it 
very much. 

I am going to play before Tausig next Monday, and 
have been studying very hard. He praised me very 
much the last time, and said he would soon take me 
into his regular class ; but he is such a whimsical 
creature that one can't rely on him much. Two of 
the girls have almost finished their studies with him, 
and soon are going to give concerts. I am playing 



BERLIN IN SUMMER. 71 

Scarlatti, which he is awfully particular with, and 
expect to have my head taken ofi. Two of his scholars 
are playing the same pieces that I am, and he told one 
of them that she played " like a nut-cracker." He is 
very funny sometimes. The other day one of the 
young men played the Pastoral Sonata to him. Tau- 
sig gave a sigh, and said, " This should be a garden 
of roses, but, as you play it, I see only potato plants." 
Scarlatti is charming music. He writes en suite like 
Bach, and is still more quaint and full of humour. 

I find Berlin very pleasant, even in summer. Most 
of the better houses are made with balconies or bow 
windows, and around each one they will have a little 
frame full of earth in which is planted mignonette, 
nasturtiums, geraniums, etc., which trail over the edge, 
and as you look up from the street it seems as if the 
houses were festooned with flowers. On many of them 
woodbine is trained so that every window is set in a 
deep green frame. All the nice streets have pretty 
little front yards in which roses are planted, and I 
never saw anything like them. The branches are cut 
to one thick, straight stem, which is tied to a stick. 
They grow very tall, and each one is crowned with a 
top-knot of superb roses. Every yard looks like a lit- 
tle orchard of roses, and they are of every imaginable 
shade of colour. Every American who comes here 
must be struck with the want of beauty in the cities 
he has left at home ; and it is really shameful, that 
when our j)eople are so much better off, and when 
such immense numbers of them see this European 
culture every year, still they do not introduce the same 



T4 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

tilings into our country. Take Fifth Avenue or Beacon 
Street, for example, and one won't see anything the 
whole length of them but a little green grass and an 
occasional woodbine, whereas here they would be 
adorned with flowers and all sorts of contrivances to 
make them beautiful. 

On Thursday a little party of three, including my- 
self, was made up to take me out to Potsdam. The 
Museum, Oharlottenburg and Potsdam, are, as Mr. T. 
B. says, '* the three sights of Berlin." I have written 
you of the first two, and you shall now have the third. 
Potsdam is sixteen miles from here, and it took about 
as long to go there by train as it does from Boston to 
Lynn. It is the royal summer residence. On arriv- 
ing we bought a large quantity of cherries and 
then seated ourselves in a carriage to drive through 
the city to Oharlottenhof. Here we got out and 
walked into a superb park, filled with splendid old 
trees. The first thing we saw was a beautiful little 
building in the Pompeian style. This was where 
Humboldt used to stay with the last king and queen 
in summer. We went into it and found it the sweet- 
est little place you can imagine. When we opened 
the door, instead of a hall was a little court with a 
fountain in it and two low, broad staircases (of 
marble, I think) sweeping up to the main story. The 
walls were delicately tinted anel frescoed all round the 
borders with Pompeian devices. The windows were 
of some sort of thin transparent stained glass, through 
which the light could penetrate easily, and were also in 
the Pompeian fashion, with chariots, and horses, and 



A MINIATURE PALACE. 73 

goddesses, etc. The rooms all opened into each other, 
but we were obliged to go through them so hastily 
that I could not look at them much in detail. The 
walls were covered with lovely pictures, and there were 
tables inlaid with precious marbles and all sorts o^ 
beautiful things. We saw the table and chair where the 
king always sat, just as he had left it, with his papers 
and drawings ; and the queen's boudoir, with her 
writing materials and her sewing arrangements. From 
her window one looked out on a fountain at the right, 
and on the left was a long arcade covered with vines 
which led to a garden of roses. 

We opened a door and passed through this arcade, 
and, after looking at the flowers, went on through the 
park until we came to another house, which was Pom- 
peian, also, or Greek, I couldn't exactly tell which. 
It was built only to bathe in. The floors were all of 
stone, and it was as cool and fresh as could be. The 
bath itself was a large semi-circular place into which 
one went down by steps. It was large enough to swim 
in. Those old peoples understood pretty well how to 
make themselves comfortable, didn't they? There 
was an ancient bath-tub there, set upon a pedestal, 
made of some precious stone, which Humboldt had ap- 
praised at half a million of thalers. Outside was a 
lovely little garden, of course, and one of the prettiest 
things I saw was a quantity of those flowers which only 
grow in cool, moist places, sheltered under an awning. 
The awning was circular, and stretched down to the 
ground on three sides, so that one could only see the 
flowers by standing just in front. There were any 



74 MUSIC- STUDY IN GERMANY. 



number of lady-slippers of every shade, each mottled 
exquisitely with a different colour, and behind them 
rose other flowers in regular gradation, and all of 
brilliant tints. It seemed as if they were all nestling 
under a great shaker bonnet, and they looked as coy 
and bewitching as possible. I thought it was a charm- 
ing idea. 

After we left this place we went on until we came 
to Sans Souci, which was built simply for the benefit 
of the orange trees — to give them a shelter in winter. 
At least, this was the pretext. It has a most dazzling 
effect in the sunshine as you look at it from below. 
Terrace rises above terrace, and at the top is this airy 
white building rising lightly into the sky, with gal- 
leries and towers, groups of statuary, colonnades, fount- 
ains, flowers, and every device one can imagine to 
make it look as much like a fairy palace as possible. 
The great burly orange trees stand in rows in the gar- 
dens in large green pots. Many of them were in blos- 
som, and cast their heavy perfume on the air. You 
couldn't turn your eyes any where that something was 
not arranged to arrest and surprise them. Here I 
saw another way of training roses. Running along on 
the green turf was a certain low growing variety, the 
branches of which they pin to the earth with a kind 
of wooden hair-pin, so that it does not show. They 
thus lie perfectly flat, and the grass is literally " car- 
peted " with them. It was lovely. After we had suf- 
ficiently admired the exterior of the palace, we as- 
cended the flights of steps which lead up the terraces, 
and went into it. Outside were the long galleries 



SANS SOUCI. 75 



where the orange trees stand, and then we passed into 
the large and noble rooms. First came the one which 
is devoted to Raphael's pictures. Copies of them all 
hang upon the walls. After we had gazed at them a 
long time, we looked at the other apartments, all of 
which were furnished in some extraordinary way, but 
I glanced at them too hastily to retain any recollec- 
tion of them. I only remember that one was all of 
malachite and gold. 

The next thing we did was to go over the palace 
originally named " Sans Souci," where Frederick the 
Great lived. We saw the benches — ledges rather — on 
which his poor pages had to sit in the corridor, and 
which were purposely made so narrow in order to pre- 
vent their falling asleep while on duty. The arm- 
chair in which he died is there, and the bust of Charles 
XII still stands on the floor at the foot of the statue 
of Venus, where Frederick placed it in derision, 
because Charles was a woman-hater. I think it was 
a very small piece of malice on Frederick's part, and 
in fact he had such a bad heart that none of his r2lics 
interested me in the least. 

After we had seen everything we went to a little 
restaurant at the foot of Sans Souci, where we drank 
beer and coffee and ate cake seated round a little table 
under the trees. This fashion that the Germans have 
of eating out of doors in summer is perfectly delight- 
ful, I think. I laid in a fresh stock of cherries, though 
I had already eaten an immense quantity, but they 
looked so nice, piled in little pyramids upon a vine 
leaf, like the cannon balls at the Cambridge arsenal, 



76 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

that there was no resisting them. I've thought of you 
ever since the cherry season began. They are so ex- 
tremely cheap here, that two groschens (about six 
cents) will buy as many as two persons can eat at one 
time. We drove from Sans Souci to Fingstenberg, 
which is only a place to see a view of the country. 
The landscape was perfectly flat, but it had the charm 
of quiet cultivation. It was green with beautiful trees, 
and the river wound along dotted with white sails, and 
there were wind-mills turning in every direction. 
After we left Fingstenberg we drove down to an inn 
where we ordered dinner, and this also was served out 
of doors. It was about six o'clock in the evening, and 
we were all very hungry, so we enjoyed this part of 
the programme very much. 

When we had finished our cutlet and green peas we 
got into the carriage again, and drove to Babelsberg. 
This is a little retreat which belongs to the queen, 
and where the royal family sometimes passes a few 
weeks in summer. We walked through a noble park 
where the ground swelled upward on our left and 
sloped downward on our right. After following the 
windings of the road for a long distance, we at last 
arrived at the little castle, perched upon a hill-side 
and embowered in trees. A smart looking maid 
showed us through it, and I was more impressed here 
than by all I had previously seen. As Balzac says, 
" People who talk about a house ' being like a palace ' 
should see one first," — although, as Herr J. observed, 
" Babelsberg is not a palace, but is more like the home 
of an English nobleman." It is just a quiet little re- 



EABELSBERG. '^'^ 



treat, but the beauty with which everything is arranged 
is quite indescribable. Every window is planned so 
that you cannot look out without having something 
exquisite before you. Here it will be a little mosaic 
of rare flowers ; there a fountain, etc. And then the 
bronzes, the pictures, the rare old pieces of glass and 
china, the thousand curious and beautiful objects of 
art that one must see over and over again to be able 
really to take in. In these castles, too, there are no 
end of little nooks and crannies where two or three 
persons, only, can sit and talk. Dainty little recesses 
made for enjoyment. 

I walked into the grand salon and imagined an 
elegant assemblage of people in it, with all the means 
of entertainment at hand. It was a circular room, 
and large enough to dance the German in very com- 
fortably. We went up stairs and through the differ- 
ent apartments. I went into the Princess Royal's room, 
and " surveyed my queenly form " in the superb mir- 
ror, and arranged my veil by her toilette glass — which 
I envied her, I assure you, for it shone like silver. 
We saw the cane of Frederick the Great, with a lion 
couchant on it — the one which he shook on some oc- 
casion and frightened somebody — (now you know, 
don't you?) Last of all we went up into the tower, and 
after climbing the dizzy staircase, we stood on the bal- 
conies for a long time, and looked over the splendid 
park about the country. Altogether, I was enchanted 
with Babelsberg, and nothing will suit me now but to 
have it for the retreat of my old age. I think I shall 
apply to be a servant there, for it must be a delightful 



78 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

situation. The royal family is only a short time there, 
and the servants have this exquisite habitation, which 
is always kept in perfect order, all the rest of the year, 
and have nothing to do but show visitors over it and 
take in half thalers ! 

After we left Babelsberg we took a carriage and 
drove to the station, where we got into the cars about 
half -past nine, and went back to Berlin. Herr J. had 
made himself extremely agreeable, and had exerted 
himself the whole day on our behalf. We had a most 
perfect time of its kind, and I enjoyed every minute 
of it, but came back in the worst of spirits, as I gen- 
erally do. It seems so hard that one can never get 
together all the elements of perfect happiness ! Here 
in Babelsberg everything was so lovely that one could 
scarcely believe that there had ever been a " Fall." It 
seemed as if people must be happy there, and yet Fm 
told that the queen is very unhappy. I suppose be- 
cause she has such a faithless old husband. 



CHAPTER VI. 

The War. German Meals. Women and Men. Tausig's 

Teaching. Tausig Abandons his Conservatory. 

Dresden. Kullak. 

Berlin, July 33, 1870. 

Just now the grand topic of course is this dreadful 
war that has just been declared between Prussia and 
France, and everybody is in the wildest state of ex- 
citement oyer it. It broke out so very suddenly that it 
is only just one week since it has been decided upon, and 
ever since, the drafting has been going on, and the 
streets are filled with regiments and with droves of 
horses, cannon, and all the implements of war. The 
trains are going out all the time packed with soldiers, 
and the railroad stations are the constant scene of 
weeping women of all classes, come to see the last of 
their dear ones. There is such a storm of indignation 
against Napoleon that one hears nothing but curses 
against him. I am entirely on the German side, and 
am anxious to see the result, for between two such 
great nations, and with so much at stake, it will be a 
tremendous struggle. 

We are promised a holiday soon, when I shall have 
a let-up from practicing, and only practice three hours 
a day, instead of five or six. Don't think I am mak- 
ing extraordinary progress because I practice so much. I 
find that the strengthening and equalizing of the fingers 

(79) 



80 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

is a terribly slow process, and that it takes much more 
time to make a step forward than I expected. You 
may know how a thing ought to be played, but it is 
another matter to get your hands into such a training 
that they obey your will. Sometimes I am very much 
encouraged, and feel as if I should be an artist "im- 
mediately, if not sooner," and at others I fall into the 
blackest despair. I don't know but that S. J. was in 
the right of it, not to attempt anything, for it is an 
awful pull when you do once begin to study ! 

I wish S. could come here and spend a winter. I 
am sure it would be capital for her health. The G-er- 
mans have a great idea that you must ^^ sta/rken 
(strengthen)" yourself. So they eat evei*y few hours. 
When you first arrive you feel stuffed to bursting all 
the time, for you naturally eat heartily at every meal, 
because, as we only eat three times a day in America, 
we are accustomed to take a good deal at once. Here 
they have five meals a day, and one has to learn how 
to take a little at a time. But it is a pretty good 
idea, for you are continually repairing yourself, and 
you never have such a strain on your system as to get 
hungry ! The German women are plump roly-polies, 
as a general rule, and it is probalily in consequence of 
this continual " strengthening." One has full opportu- 
nity to observe their condition, for they generally 
have their dress ^' aus-geschnitten (square neck)," as 
they call it, in order to save collars, and you will 
see them strolling along the streets with their dresses 
cut open in front. They are not handsome — irregulai* 
features and muddy complexions being the rule. The 



GIRLS IN GERMANY. 81 

way they neglect their teeth is the worst. They are 
always complimenting Americans on what they call 
our " fine Grecian noses," and, in fact, since they have 
said so much about it, I have noticed that nearly all 
Americans Aave straight and reasonably proportioned 
noses. — One sees a great many handsome men on the 
street, however — many more than we do at home. Per- 
haps it is because the Prussian uniform sets them off so, 
and then their blonde beards and moustaches give them 
a distingue air. 
From what you tell me of the shock of our respected 

friend over B.'s travelling from the West under 

Mr. S.'s escort, I think the "conventionalities" 
are taking too strong a hold in America, and it 
will not be many years before they are as strict there 
as they are here, where young people of different sexes 
can never see an3rthing of each other. I regard it as 
a shocking system, as the Germans manage it. Young 
ladies and gentlemen only see each other in parties, 
and a young man can never call on a girl, but must 
Always see her in the presence of the whole family. I 
only wonder how marriages are managed at all, for the 
sexes seem to live quite isolated from each other. The 
consequence is, the girls get a lot of rubbish in their 
heads, and as for the men, I know not what they think, 
for I have not seen any to speak of since I have been 
here. You can imagine that with my co-education 
training and ideas, I have given Fraulein W.'s moral 
system a succession of shocks. She has been fenced 
up, so to speak, her whole life, and, consequently, was 
dumbfounded at the bold stand I take. I cannot resist 
6 



82 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

giving her a sensation once in a while, so I come out 
with some strong expression. Do you know, since Fve 
seen so much of the world Fve come to the conclusion 
that the New England principle of teaching daughters 
to be independent and to look out for themselves from 
the first, is an excellent one. I've seen the evil of this 
German system of never allowing children to think 
for themselves. It does make them so mawkish. A 
girl here nearly thirty years old will not know where 
to buy the simplest thing, or do without her mother 
any more than a baby. The best plan is the old- 
fashioned American one, viz. : Give your children a 
" stern sense of duty," and then throw them on their 
own resources. 



Berlin, August 6, 1870. 

Until yesterday I have had no holiday, for I got into 
Tausig's class finally, so I had to practice very hard. 
He was as amiable to me as he ever can be to anybody, 
but he is the most trying and exasperating master you 
can possibly imagine. It is his principle to rough you 
and snub you as much as he can, even when there is 
no occasion for it, and you can think yourself fortu- 
nate if he does not hold you up to the ridicule of the 
whole class. I was put into the class with Fraulein 
Timanoff, who is so far advanced that Tausig told her 
he would not give her lessons much longer, for that she 
knew enough to graduate. You can imagine what an 
ordeal my first lesson was to me. I brought him a 
long and difficult Scherzo, by Chopin, that I had prac- 



TAUSIG GIVES UP! 83 

^iced carefully for a month, and knew well. Fancy 
how easy it was for me to play, when he stood over 
me and kept calling out all through it in German, 
" Terrible ! Shocking ! Dreadful ! Gott ! Gott !" 
I was really playing it well, too, and I kept on in spite 
of him, but my nerves were all rasped and excited to 
the highest point, and when I got through and he 
gave me my music, and said, " Not at all bad " (very 
complimentary for him), I rushed out of the room 
and burst out crying. He followed me immediately, 
and coolly said, "What are you crying for, child? 
Your playing was not at all bad." I told him that it 
was " impossible for me to help it when he talked in 
such a way," but he did not seem to be aware that he 
had said an}i^hing. 

And now to show how we all have our troubles, and 
that blow falls upon blow — I will tell you that at our last 
lesson Tausig informed us that he was 7iot going to give 
another lesson to anybody, and that the conservatory 
would be shut up on the first of October ! ! This is the 
most awful disappointment to me, for just as I have 
worked up to the point where I am prepared to profit 
by his lessons, he goes away ! I suppose that he has 
left Berlin by this time, or that he will very soon, but he 
wouldn't tell when or where he was going, and only said 
that he was going off, and did not know when he was 
coming back, or what would become of him. Of course 
he doe^ know, but he does not want to be plagued with 
applications from scholars for private lessons. I heard 
that he was only going to retain two of his scholars, and 
that one was a princess and the other a countess. 



{j4: music-study in GERMANY. 



He is a perfect rock. I Avent to his house to see if 
I could persuade him to give me private lessons. He 
came into the room and accosted me in his sharpest 
manner, with " j^un^ was isVs? (Well, what is it ?)" 
I soon found that no impression was to be made on 
him. He only said that when he happened to be in 
Berlin, if I would come and play to him, he would 
give me his judgment. But I never should venture to 
do this, for as likely as not he would be in a bad 
humour, and send me off — he is such a difficult subject 
to come at. I told him I thought it was very hard 
after I had come all this way, and had been at so much 
expense only to have le-ssons from him, that I should 
have to go back without them. He said he was very 
sorry, but that most of his scholars came from long 
distances, and that he could not show any special 
favor to me. He asked me why I insisted upon having 
lessons from him, and said that Kullak or Bendel both 
teach as well as he does. The fact is, he is a capri- 
cious genius, entirely spoiled and unregulated, and 
the conservatory is a mere plaything to him. He 
amused himself with it for a- while, and now he is, 
tired of it, and doesn't like to be bound down to it, 
and so he throws it up. Money is no consideration to 
him. 

It really seems almost as difficult to get a great 
teacher in Europe as in America. Tausig is the only 
celebrity who teaches, and now he has given up. He 
rather advised my taking lessons of Bendel, who is a 
resident artist here, and a pupil of Liszt's. 

I suffered terribly over Tausig's going off. I heard 



GERMAN EQUANIMITY. 85 

of it first two weeks ago, and couldn't sleep or anything. 
The only consolation I have is that I should have 
been " worn to the bone/' as H. 0. says, if I had kept 
on with him, for all his pupils except little Timanoff, 
who is at the age of plump fifteen, look as thin as rails. 
However — " the bitterness of death is past !" When 
one is stopped off in one direction, there is nothing 
for it but to turn in another. But it seems as if the 
more one tried to accomplish a thing, the thicker 
hindrances and difficulties spring up about one, like the 
dragon's teeth. I suppose I shall end by going to Kul- 
lak. He used to be court pianist here before Tausig 
and has had immense experience as a teacher. Indeed, 
Professor J. K. Paine recommended me to go to him 
in the first place, you remember. If I do, I hope I 
shall have a better fate than poor young N., whom, 
also. Professor Paine recommended to go to Kullak. 
He could not stand — or else understsmd the snubbing 
and brow-beating they gave him in Kullak's conser- 
vatory, and from being deeply melancholy over it, he 
got desperate, and actually committed suicide I 

Germans cannot understand blueness. They are 
never blue themselves, and they expect you always to 
preserve your equanimity, and torment you to death 
to know ^^what is the matter?" when there is nothing 
the matter, except that you are in a state of disgust with 
everything. Moods are utterly incomprehensible to 
them. They feel just the same every day in the year. 



86 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



Berlin, August 21, 1870. 

I suppose that 0. has described to you in full our 
Dresden visit, and what a lovely time we had. It was 
really a poetic five days, as everything was new to 
both of us. We were a good deal surprised at many 
things in Dresden. In the first place, the beauty of 
the city struck us very forcibly, and we both remarked 
how singular it was that of all the people we know who 
have been there no one should have spoken of it. 
The Bruhl'sche Terrasse is the most lovely promenade 
imaginable. It runs along the bank of the Elbe 
River, which is here quite broad and handsome, and I 
always felt myself under a species of enchantment as 
soon as we had ascended the broad flight of steps that 
lead to it. We always took tea in the open air, and lis- 
tened to a band of music playing. The Germans just 
live in the open air in summer, and it is perfectly 
fascinating. They have these gardens everywhere, 
filled with trees, under which are little tables and 
chairs and footstools ; and there you can sit and have 
dinner or tea served up to you. At night they are all 
lighted up with gas. 

It seemed like fairy land, as we sat there in Dresden. 
The evenings were soft and balmy, the very perfection 
of summer weather. The terrace is quite high above 
the river, and you look up and down it for a long dis- 
tance. The city lies to the left, below you, and the 
towers rise so prettily — precisely as in a picture. This 
air of the culture of centuries lies over everything, 
and the soft and lazy atmosphere lulls the soul to rest. 



THE SISTINE MADONNA. 87 

We used to walk until we came to the Belvldere, which 
is a large restaurant with a gallery up-stairs running 
all round it. There was a band of music, and here we 
sat and took our tea, and spent two or three hours, 
always. Tlie moonlight, the river flowing along and 
spanned with beautiful bridges, the thousands of lamps 
reflected in it and trembling across the water and 
under the arches, the infinity of little steamers and 
wherries sailing to and fro and brilliantly lighted up, 
the music, and the throngs of people passing slowly 
by, put one into a delicious and bewildered sort of 
state, and one feels as if this world were heaven ! 

The day after we arrived we went, of course, to the 
picture gallery, and here I was entirely taken by sur- 
prise. Nothing one reads or hears gives one the 
least idea of the magnificence of the pictures there. 
I never knew what a picture was before. The softness 
and richness of the colouring, and their exquisite 
beauty, must be seen to be understood. The Sistine 
Madonna fills one with rapture. It is perfectly glori- 
ous, and one can't imagine how the mind of man could 
have conceived it. One sees what a flight it was 
after looking at all the other Madonnas in the Gallery, 
many of which are wonderful. But this one soars above 
them all. Most of the Madonnas look so stiff, or so 
old, or so matronly, or so expressionless, or, at best, as 
in Oorregio's Adoration of the Shepherds (a magnifi- 
cent picture), the rapture of the mother only is 
expressed in the face. In the Sistine Madonna the 
virgin looks so young and innocent — so virgin-like — 
not like a middle-aged married woman. The large, 



88 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

wide-open blue eyes have a dewy look in them, as if 
they had wept many tears, and yet such an innocence 
that it makes you think of a baby whom you have 
comforted after a violent fit of crying. The majesty 
of the attitude, and the perfect repose of the face, 
upon which is a look of waiting, of ineffable expect- 
ancy, are very striking. Mr. T. B. says it looked to 
him as though she had been overwhelmed at the tre- 
mendous dignity that had been put upon her, and was 
yet lost in the awe of it — which I think an exquisite 
idea. St. Sixtus, who is kneeling on the right of the 
virgin, has an expression of anxious solicitude on his 
features. He is evidently interceding with her for the 
congregation toward whom his right hand is out- 
stretched, for this picture was intended to be placed 
over an altar. The only fault to be found with the 
picture, I think, is in the face of Santa Barbara, who 
kneels on the left. She looks sweetly down upon the 
sinners below, but with a slight self-consciousness. 
The two cherubs underneath are exquisite. Their lit- 
tle round faces wear an exalted look, as if their eyes 
fully took in the august pair to whom they are 
upturned. The background of the picture — all of the 
faces of angels cloudily painted — gives the finishing 
touch to this astounding creation. But you must see 
it to realize it. 

Since my return I have finally decided to take private 
lessons of Kullak. Kullak is a verv celebrated teacher, 
and plays splendidly himself, I am told, though he 
doesn't give concerts any more. He used to be court 
pianist here, and has had so much experience in teach- 



A WAYWARD GENIUS. 89 

ing that I hope a good deal from him, though I don't 
believe he will equal our little Tausig, capricious and 
ill-regulated though he is. Never shall I forget the iron 
way he used to stand over those girls, his hand 
clenched, determined to make them do it ! No wonder 
they played so ! They didn't dare not to. He told one 
of the class that ^'it was in me, and he could knock it 
out of me if he had chosen to keep on with me." And I 
know he could — and that is what distracts me ! 

But just think what a way to behave — to leave his con- 
servatory so, at a day's notice, m holiday time, without 
even informing his teachers ! He left everything to be 
attended to by Beringer. Many of the scholars are very 
poor, and have made a great effort to get here in order 
to learn his method. Off he went like a shot, because 
he suddenly got disgusted with teaching, and he hasn't 
told a soul where he was going, or how long he intended 
to remain away. He wrote to Bechstein, the great piano- 
maker here, "I am going away — away — away." He 
wouldn't condescend to say more. Mr. Beringer has been 
to his house to see him on business connected with the 
conservatory, but he was flown, and his housekeeper told 
Beringer that both letters and telegrams had come for 
Tausig, and she did not know where to send them. Did 
you ever hear of such a capricious creature? I was so 
provoked at him that after the first week I ceased to grieve 
over his departure. One cannot rely on these great gen- 
iuses, but I hope that, as Kullak makes a business of 
teaching, and not of playing, more is to be gained from 
him. At any rate, he will not be off on these long 
absences. 



90 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

I am just studying my first concerto. It is Beetho- 
ven's C minor, and it is extremely beautiful. Mr. Ber- 
inger tells me that two years is too short a time to make 
an artist in ; and indeed one does not know how extremely 
difficult it is until one tries it. He plays splendidly him- 
self, and is to make his debut in the Gewandhaus in 
Leipsic, this October. The best orchestra in Germany 
is there. Tausig has turned out five artists from his 
conservatory this summer. Time will show if any of 
them become first class. i 

Aunt H. was right in thinking that this would be one 
of the most dreadful wars that ever was, though she 
needn't be anxious on my account. The Prussians are 
winning everything, and are pushing on for Paris as 
hard as they can go. They have just taken Chalons. 
The battles have been terrible, and immense numbers 
have been killed and wounded on both sides. They have 
really fought to the death. The spirit of the two peo- 
ples seems to me entirely different. The French seem 
only to be possessed by a mad thirst for glory, and man- 
ifest a blood-thirstiness which is perfectly appalling. 
One reads the most revolting stories in the papers about 
their creeping around the battle-field after the battle is 
over, and killing and robbing the wounded Prussians, 
cutthig out their tongues and putting out their eyes. 
The Prussians are so on the alert now, however, that I 
hope few such things can take place. One Prussian 
writes that he was lying wounded upon the field of bat- 
tle, and another man was not far off in the same help- 
less condition, when an old Frenchman came up and 
clove this other man's heiid with a hatchet. The first 



THE REALITIES OF WAR. 91 

screamed loudly for help, when a party of Prassians 
rushed up and rescued hun, and overtook the old man, 
and shot him. We hear every day of some dreadful 
thing. O.'s cousin, who is just my age, and is three 
years married, has lost her husband, her favorite brother 
is fatally wounded with three balls and hes in the hos- 
pital, and her second brother has a shot in each leg and 
they don't know whether he will ever be able to walk 
again. He is a young fellow nineteen years old. 

In the first days after the war was declared, I felt as 
if no punishment could be too hot for Napoleon. The 
people just gave up everything, and stood in the streets 
all day long on each side of the railroad track. The 
trains passed every fifteen minutes, packed with the 
brave fellows who were going off to lose their fives on a 
mere pretext. Then there would be one continual cheer- 
ing all along as they passed, and all the women would 
cry, and the men would execrate Napoleon. The Prus- 
sians don't seem to have any feelings of revenge, but 
regard the French as a set of lunatics whom they are 
going to bring to reason. The hatred of Napoleon is 
intense. They regard him as the leader of a people 
whom he has willfully blinded, and are determmed to 
make an end of him, if possible. The Prussian army 
is such a splendid one that it is difficult to imagine that 
it can be overcome. You see eveiybody under a certain 
age is fiable to be draf ted, and no one is allowed to buy 
a substitute. So everybody is interested. Bismarck has 
two sons who are common soldiers, and all the ministers 
together have twelve sons in the war. Then the King 
and the Crown Prince being with the army, gives a great 



92 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

enthusiasm. The Crown Prince has distinguished him- 
self, and seems to have great military ability. The King 
was very angry with Prince Friedrich Carl, because in 
the last battle he exposed one regiment so that it was 
completely mowed down. Only two or three men 
escaped. But it makes one groan for the poor French- 
men when one sees these terrible great cannon passing 
by. The largest-sized ones were ordered for the storm- 
ing of Metz, and each one requires twenty-four horses 
to draw it ! , 



WITH KULLAK. 

(93) 



CHAPTER VII. 

Moving. German Houses and Dinners. The War. The Cap- 
ture of Napoleon. Kullak's and Tausig's Teaching. 
Joachim. Wagner. Tausig's Playing. 
German Etiquette. 

Berlin, September 29, 1870. 

I must request you in future to direct your letters 
to No. 30 Koniggratzer Strasse, as we move in three 
days. The people who live on the floor under us 
wouldn't bear my practicing for five or six hours daily, 
and so Frau W. has looked up another lodging. The 
German houses are about as uncomfortable as can be 
imagined. Only the newest ones have gas and water- 
works, or even the ordinary conveniences that ever^ 
house has with us. No carpets on the floors, stiff, 
straight-backed chairs, precious little fire in cold 
weather, etc. The rooms have no closets, and one 
always has to have a great clumsy wardrobe with 
wooden pegs in it, instead of hooks, so that when you 
go to take down one dress all the others tumble down, 
too. In short, the Germans are fifty years behind us. 
Of course the rich people have superb houses, but I 
speak now of people in ordinary circumstances. I often 
look back upon the solid comfort of the Cambridge 
houses. I think people understand there pretty well 
how to live. I shall relish a good dinner when I come 
home, for this is the land where what we call " family 

(05) 



96 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY 



dinners " are unknown. They have parts of meals 
five times a day, but never a complete one. The meat 
is dreadful, and I never can tell what kind of an ani- 
mal it grows on. They give me two boiled eggs for 
supper, so I manage to live, but ! has beefsteak 
vanished into the land of dreams? and is turkey but 
the figment of my disordered imagination? They have 
delicious bread and butter, but " man cannot live 
by bread alone." Mr. F. says that where he boards they 
give him "pear soup, and cherry soup, and plum 
soup I" 

Everything here is saddened by this fearful war. 
You have no idea how frightful it is. The men on 
both sides are just being slaughtered by thousandf?. 
Haven't the Prussians made a magnificent compaign? 
I declare, I think it is marvellous what they have dono. 
The Frencli haven't had the smallest success, and have 
had to give up one tremendous stronghold after another. 
It is expected that Metz will surrender in about eight 
days. It is a terrific place, and was believed to be 
impregnable. Over and over again the poor French 
have tried to cut through the Prussian army, and just 
so often they have been beaten back into the city. 
Finally they will have to give over. Their generals 
must be shameful, for they have fought to the death, 
but they can't make any headway against these for- 
midable Prussians. The German papers say that the 
French fire too high, for one thing. They are not 
such practiced marksmen as the Germans, and their 
balls fly over the enem/s heads. The French are 
a savage people, however, and cruelty runs in their 



THE " AFFAIR OF SEDAN." 97 

veins. One reads the most awful things, but for the 
credit of human nature it is to be hoped that the 
worst of them are not true. 

I believe I have not written to you since the capture 
of the Emperor Napoleon, which of course you heard 
of as soon as it happened. The GJ-ermans, as you may 
imagine, were completely carried away with the glori- 
ous news, and could scarcely believe in their own good 
fortune. On the 3d of September, when I came out 
to breakfast, Frau W. called out to me from behind 
the newspaper, with a face all ablaze with triumph 
and excitement, " Der Kaiser Napoleon ist gefangen. 
(The Emperor Napoleon is taken.)" " N'o!" said I, 
for it did not seem possible that anything so great and 
unexpected could have happened. " It is true" said 
she ; " look at this paper, which I just sent out for." 
The instant I saw that Frau W. had been guilty of 
the unwonted extravagance of purchasing the morn- 
ing paper, it became clear to me that Napoleon mu^t 
have been taken prisoner. Gi-enerally we do not get 
the paper till it is a day old, when Frau W. brings 
it carefully home from her brother's in her capacious 
bag. He subscribes for it, and after his family have 
perused it, she borrows it for our benefit — an economi- 
cal arrangement upon which she frequently congratu- 
lates herself. 

I fancy there was little work done or business trans- 
acted that day in Berlin ! After I had finished my 
coffee, I went and stood by the window and watched 
the people pour through the streets. Everybody 
streamed up Unter den Linden past the palace, their 
7 



98 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

faces full of joy. The street boys took an active part 
in the general jollification, and were as ubiquitous as 
boys always are when anything extraordinary is going 
on. They conceived the brilliant idea of climbing 
up on the equestrian statue of Frederick the Great, 
which is just opposite the palace windows. The 
Crown Princess, who was looking out, immediately had 
it announced to them that he who got to the top first 
should receive a silver cup and some pieces of money. 
That was all the boys needed. Away they went, strug- 
gling and tumbling over each other like a swarm of 
bees. At last one little urchin secured the coveted 
position, and was afterward called up to the palace 
window to receive the prize. — If the Crown Princess, 
by the way, were more given to such little acts of gen- 
erosity, she would be more popular by far, for the 
Germans sniif at her for being too economical. They 
are the closest possible economisers themselves, but 
they despise the trait in foreigners ! 

At night there was agra*id illumination in honour of the 
victory, and of course we all went to see it. Such a 
time as we had ! The whole city was blazmg with light, 
and all the large firms had put up something brilliant 
and striking before their places of business. Stars, 
eagles, crosses (after the celebrated " iron cross " of Prus- 
sia), beside countless tapers, were burning away in eveiy 
direction, and all the carriages and droschkies in Berlin 
were slowly crawling along the streets, much impeded by 
the dense throng of pedestrians crowding through. All 
the private houses were lit up with tajiers, and thousands 
of flags were flying. Over every public building and rail- 



THE BERLIN " SMALL BOY." 99 

road station, and on all the public squares were trans- 
parencies in which the substantial form of Germania 
flourished extensively, leaning upon her shield, and gazing 
sentimentally into vacancy. But I always enjoy " Ger- 
mania." It seems a sort of recognition of the femi- 
nine element. 

We were in a droschkie, like other people, taking the 
prescribed tour round by the Rath-Haus (City-Hall), 
and were frequently brought to a stand-still by the crush. 
At such times we were the target for all the small boys 
standing in our neighbourhood. The " Berlinger Junge" 
is almost as famous for his talent for repartee as the 
Paris " Gamin." " Do be careful !" said one to me ; "you 
will certainly tumble out, your carriage is going so 
fast." This was intended as a double sarcasm, for in 
the first place we were not in a carriage at all, but in a 
second-class droschkie, and in the second place we had 
been standing stock still for half an hour, and there 
was no prospect of getting started for half an 
hour more. Many more such little speeches were 
addressed to us which we pretended not to hear, though 
we were secretly much amused. — It was a strange sort of 
feeling to be out in the streets at night Avith this glare 
of light, these crowds of people, and this suppressed 
excitement in the an\ I thought it gave some idea of 
the Day of Judgment. 

The women are tremendously patriotic and self-sacri- 
ficing, and they seem to be throwing themselves heart 
and soul into the war. With the catholicity of the 
female sex, however, they could not help taking a peep 
at the French prisoners when they came on, but went 



100 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

to the station to see them arrive, and bestowed many ht- 
tle hospitalities upon them in the way of cigars, luncheon, 
etc., at all of which the papers were patriotically indig- 
nant, and indulged in many sarcasms on the "warm 
and sympathetic " reception given by the German women 
to their enemies. Quite as many women go into nurs- 
ing as was the case in our own war. I know one young 
lady who spends her whole time in the hospitals among 
the wounded soldiers, who are all the time being sent on 
in ambulances. Her name is Fraulein Hezekiel, and she 
has received a decoration from the Government. 

Just after I wrote you last I went to Kullak, as I 
told you I should, and engaged him to give me one 
private lesson a week. He looks about fifty, and is 
charming. I am enchanted with him. He plays mag- 
nificently, and is a splendid teacher, but he gives me 
immensely much to do, and I feel as if a mountain 
of music were all the time pressing on my head. He 
is so occupied that I have to take my lesson from seven 
to eight in the evening. 

Tausig's conservatory closes on the first of October, 
and I feel very sorry, for my three grand friends, Mr. 
Trenkel, Mr. Weber and Mr. Beringer, are all going 
away, and I shall be awfully lonely without them. 
Weber is very handsome, and has the most splendid 
forehead I think I ever saw. He composes like an 
angel, besides being remarkal)ly clever in every way. 
He will be famous some day, I know, and he belongs 
to the Music of the Future. Beringer is poetic, pas- 
sionate and vivid. He has golden hair and golden 
eyes, I may say, for they are of a peculiar light hazel. 



THREE YOUNG ARTISTS. 101 

almost yellow, but with a warmth and snnuiiiess, and 
often a tenderness of expression that is extremely 
fascinating. AVeber cannot speak English, and as he 
is from Switzerland, he speaks an entirely different 
dialect from the Berlinese, so that it took me some 
time to understand him. He is a perfect child of 
nature, and has a great deal of humour. He and Ber- 
inger are devoted friends, and are about my age. 
Trenkel is older. He has the blackest hair and 
eyes, and a dark Italian skin. He is intellectual and 
highly cultured, and at the same time such a very 
peculiar character that he interested me greatly. 
Most of his life has been spent in America : first in 
Boston, where he seems to know everybody, and after- 
wards in San Francisco, whither he is about to return. 
He has been studying with Tausig for two years, and 
IS a heavenly musician, though he hasn't Beringer's 
great technique and passion. His conception is more 
of the Chopin order, extremely finely shaded and 
" filed out," as the Germans have it. 

It was so pleasant to have these three musical 
friends, who all play so much better than I, as they often 
met and made lovely music in my little room. Weber 
and Beringer took tea with us only yesterday evening. 
Weber was in one of his good moods, and played to 
Beringer and me his most beautiful compositions for 
ever so long. We settled ourselves comfortably, one 
in two chairs, the other on the sofa, and enjoyed it. 
The Andante out of a great sonata he is composing, 
is perfectly lovely. It is entirely original, and dif- 
ferent from any music I have ever heard. Then he 



102 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

played the second movement of his symphony, and it 
is the most exquisite morceau you can imagine. I 
asked him to compose a little piece for me, and so 
yesterday morning he sat down and wrote seven mazur- 
kas, one after the other. Whether he actually gives 
me one is another matter, for, like all geniuses, he is 
not very prodigal with his gifts, and is not very easy 
to come at. But I would like to have even four bars 
written by him, for he is so individual that it would 
be worth keeping. 

Weber looks perfectly charming when he plays. 
He never glances at the keys, but his large blue eyes 
gaze dreamily into vacancy, and his noble brow stands 
out white and lofty. His conception is extremely 
musical, but as he only practices when he feels like it 
(as he does everything else), he doesn't come up to 
the other two. Tausig burst out laughing at him at 
his last lesson. That individual, by the way, came 
back as suddenly as he went off, but announced that 
he would give no more lessons except to these favoured 
three. All the rest of us had to go begging. It didn't 
make so much difference to me, as I had already gone 
to Kullak, who is now the first teacher in Germany, as 
all the greatest virtuosi have given up teaching. 

Kullak himself is a truly splendid artist, which I 
had not expected. He used to have great fame here 
as a pianist, but I supposed that as he had given up his 
concert playing he did not keep it up. I found, how- 
ever, that I was mistaken. His playing does not suf- 
fer in comparison with Tausig's even, whom I have 
so often heard. Why in the world he has not contiur 



KULLAK AND TAUSIG TEACHING. 103 



ued playing in public I can't imagine, but I am told 
that he was too nervous. Like all artists, he is fasci- 
nating, and full of his whims and caprices. He knows 
everything in the way of music, and when I take my 
lessons he has two grand pianos side by side, and he 
sits at one and I at the other. He knows by heart 
everything that he teaches, and he plays sometimes 
with me, sometimes before me, and shows me all 
sorts of ways of playing passages. I am getting no 
end of ideas from him. I have enjoyed playing my 
Beethoven Concerto so much, for he has played all the 
orchestral parts. Just think how exciting to have a 
great artist like that play second piano with youl 
I am going to learn one by Chopin next. 

Kullak is not nearly so terrible a teacher as Tausig. 
He has the greatest patience and gentleness, and helps 
you on ; but Tausig keeps rating you and telling you, 
what you feel only too deeply, that your playing is 
" awful." When Tausig used to sit down in his im- 
patient way and play a few bars, and then tell me to do 
it just so, I used always to feel as if some one wished me 
to copy a streak of forked lightning with the end of a 
wetted match. At the last lesson Tausig gave me, 
however, he entirely changed his tone, and was ex- 
tremely sweet to me. I think he regretted having 
made me cry at the previous lesson, for just as I sat 
down to play, he turned to the class and made some 
little joke about these ^'em^jfindliche Amerikanerinnen 
(sensitive Americans)." Then he came and stood by 
me, and nothing could have been gentler than his 
manner. After I had finished, he sat down and played 



104 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

the whole piece for me, a thing he rarely does, intro- 
ducing a magnificent trill in double thirds, and end- 
ing up with some peculiar turn in which he allowed 
his virtuosity to peep out at me for a moment. Only 
for a moment though, for he is much too proud and 
has too much contempt for Spectakel to "show 
off," so he suppressed himself immediately. It was 
as if his fingers broke into the trill in spite of him, 
and he had to pull them up with a severe check. 
Strange, inscrutable being that he is ! 



Berlin, October 13, 1870. 

My room in our new lodging is a charming one. 
Quite large, and a front one, and there is no vis-d-vis. 
We look right over across the street into Prince Al- 
brecht's Garden. It is very uncommon to have such 
a nice outlook, particularly in Berlin. But it is so 
long since I have lived among trees that at first it 
affected my spirits dreadfully. As I sit by my window 
and hear the autumn wind rushing through them, 
and see all the leaves quivering and shaking, and 
think that they have only a few short weeks more to 
sway in the breeze, it makes me wretched. I suppose 
that we shall now have two months of dismal weather. 

I wish you were here to counsel me over my dresses. 
I have just bought two — one for a street dress, and 
the other for demi-evening toilette, but heaven only 
knows when they will be done, or how they will fit ! 
You ought to see the biases of the dresses here ! They 
all go zig-zag. The Berlin dressmakers are abomina- 



KULLAK'S PIANO STYLE. 105 



ble. Mrs. , of the Legation, told me that when she 

first came here she cried over every new dress she had 
made, and I could not sufficiently rejoice last winter 
that i had got all my things before I sailed. M. E., 
too, who gets all her best things from Paris, told M. 
she was never so happy as when her mother sent her 
over an ^'American dress." — " They are so comfortable 
and so satisfactory," said she. 

Yesterday I took my fourth lesson of Kullak. He 
plays much more to me than Tausig did, and I am 
sui'prised to see how much I have got on in four weeks. 
Tausig didn't deign to do more than play occasional 
passages, and Ave had only one piano in the room 
where he taught. But at Kullak's there are two grand 
pianos side by side. He sits at one and I at the other, 
and as he knows everything by heart which he teaches, 
as I told you, he keeps playing with me or before me, 
so that I catch it a great deal better. Sometimes he 
will repeat a passage over and over, and I after him, 
like a parrot, until I get it exactly right. He has this 
excessively finished and elegant fantasia style of play- 
ing, like Thalberg or De Meyer. He has great fame 
as a teacher, and is perhaps more celebrated in this 
respect than Tausig, but I was with Tausig too short 
a time to judge personally which teaches the best. 

This war is perfectly awful. The men are simply 
being slaughtered like cattle. New regiments are all 
the time being sent on. The Prussians have taken 
over two hundred thousand prisoners, to say nothing 
of the killed and wounded. But they lose fearful 
numbers themselves also. It is expected in a few days 



106 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

that Metz will surrender. It is a tremendous strong- 
hold, and contains an army of fifty thousand men. 
But isn't it extraordinary how disastrous the war has 
been to the French? They had an immense army 
of several hundred thousand men. And then they 
had all the advantages of position. Tlie Prussians 
have had to fight their way through all these strong 
defences one after another. They will soon bombard 
Paris. As Herr S. says, this war is a disgrace to the 
governments. lie says that they ought to have united 
against it (America included), and to have said that 
on such an unjast pretext they would not permit it. 
I read the other day a most touching letter that was 
found on the dead body of a common soldier from his 
old peasant father. He said, " What have we poor 
people done that the lieher Gott visits us with such 
fearful judgments? When I got thy letter, my dear 
son, saying that thou art safe come out of the last 
battle with thy brother, I fell on my knees and thanked 
God for His goodness." Then he goes on to describe 
the joy of his mother and sister and sweetheart, and 
how he read his letter to all the neighbours, " who re- 
joiced much at thy safety," and his hope and confi- 
dence that his son would return alive to his old father. 
But in a few days his son fell in another battle, des- 
perately wounded. He was carried to the house of a 
lady who did all she could for him, but he died, and 
she sent this letter to the paper. Do you get many of 
the anecdotes in the American papers? Such as that 
of the three hundred and two liorses which, at the 
usual signal after the battle that called the regiments 



JOACHIM. 10 T 



together, came back riderless? I think that was very 
touching in the poor things.* Or have you heard of 
the Frenchman who, when informed that the Emperor 
was taken prisoner, coolly replied: " Moi aussiP^ 
But these are already old stories, and you have doubt- 
less heard them. I think one of the worst incidents 
of the war is that bomb that fell into a girls' school at 
Strasbourg. When one thinks of innocent young 
girls having their eyes torn out, and being killed and 
wounded, it seems too terrible. — I always pity the poor 
horses so much. At the surrender of Sedan, the French 
forgot to detach them from the cannon, and to give 
them food and drink. Finally, frantic with thirst, 
they broke themselves loose and rushed wildly through 
the streets. It was said that any body could have a 
horse for the trouble of catching him. 



Berlin, November 25, 1870. 

I went last week to hear Joachim, who lives here, 
and is giving his annual series of quartette soirees. Oh ! 
he is a wonderful genius, and the sublimest artist I 
have yet heard. I am amazed afresh every time I 
hear him. He draws the most extraordinary tone 
from his violin, and such a powerful one that it seems 
sometimes as if several were playing. Then his ex- 

* In Mr. Longfellow's Poems of Places is a translation of Gerok's poem 
on the subject :— 

" Over three hundred were counted that day 
Riderless horses who joined in the fray, 
Over three hundred saddles, O horrible sightl 
Were emptied at once in that terrible fight." 



108 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

pression is so marvellous that he holds complete sway 
over his audience from the moment he begins till he 
ceases. He possesses magnetic power to the highest 
degree. 

On Saturday night I went to a superb concert given 
for the benefit of the wounded. The royal orchestra 
played, and as it was in the Sing-Akademie, where the 
acoustic is very remarkable, the orchestral perform- 
ance seemed phenomenal. Generally, this orchestra 
plays in the opera house, which is so much larger that 
the effect is not so great. The last thing they played 
was the "Ritt der Walkiiren," by Wagner. It was 
the first time it was given in Berlin, and it is a wonder- 
ful composition. It represents the ride of the Wal- 
kiire-maidens into Valhalla, and when you hear it it 
seems as if you could really see the spectral horses 
with their ghostly riders. It produces the most un- 
earthly effect at the end, and one feels as if one had 
suddenly stepped into Pandemonium. I was perfectly 
enchanted with it, and everybody was excited. The 
" bravos " resounded all over the house. Tausig 
played Chopin's E minor concerto in his own glorious 
style. He did his very best, and when he got through 
not only the whole orchestra was applauding him, but 
even the conductor was rapping his desk with his baton 
like mad. I thought to myself it was a proud position 
where a man could excite enthusiasm in the hearts of 
these old and tried musicians. As a specimen of his 
virtuosity, what do you say to the little feat of playing 
th<3 running passage at the end, two pages long, and 



FATIGUE OF GERMAN PARTIES. 109 

which was written for both hands in unison, in octaves 
instead of single notes ? — G-igantic ! [Later Kullak 
gave this great concerto to my sister to study, and as 
she was struggling with its difficulties he said : ^'Ah 
yes, Fraulein, when I think of the time and labour I 
spent over that concerto in my youth, I could weep 
tears of 5Zooc? /"]— Ed. 

Yesterday evening I went to a party at the house of 
a relative of the M.'s. Madame de Stael was right in 
saying that etiquette is terribly severe in Germany. 
It is downright law, and everybody is obliged to submit 
to it. What other people in the world, for example, 
would insist on your coming at eight and remaining 
until nearly four in the morning, when the party con- 
sists of a dozen or twenty people, almost all of them 
married and middle-aged, or elderly? I nearly expire 
of fatigue and ennui, but they would all take it so ill 
if I didn't go, that there is no escape. Last night I 
came home with such a dreadful nervous headache 
from sheer exhaustion, that I could scarcely see. You 
know in a dancing party the excitement keeps one up, 
and one doesn't feel the fatigue until afterward. But 
to sit three mortal hours before supper, and keep up 
a conversation with a lot of people much older than 
yourself in whom you have not the slightest interest, 
and in a foreign language, when you wouldn't be bril- 
liant in your own, and then another long three 
hours at the supper table, and then still an hour or so 
afterwards, to an American mind is terrible ! I always 
groan in spirit when I think how comfortably I used 
to jump into the carriage at nine o'clock, in Cambridge, 



110 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

go to the party, and come home at half -past eleven or 
twelve. These long parties are what the Germans call 
being " gemii/hlig (sociable and friendly)." The 
French would call them " assommant,^^ and they would 
be entirely in the right. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

Concerts. Joachim again. The Siege of Paris. Peace 

Declared. Wagner. A Woman's Symphony. 

Ovation to Wagner in Berlin. 

Berlin, December 11, 1870. 

I haven't been doing much of anything lately, except 
going to concerts, of which I have heard an immense 
number, and all of them admirable. — I wish you could 
hear Joachim ! I went last night to his third soiree, 
and he certainly is the wonder of the age. Unless I 
were to rave I never could express him. One of his 
pieces was a quartette by Hadyn, which was perfectly 
bewitching. The adagio he played so wonderfully, and 
drew such a pathetic tone from his violin, that it really 
went through one like a knife. The third movement 
was a jig, and just the gayest little piece ! It flashed 
like a humming bird, and he played every note so dis- 
tinctly and so fast that people were beside themselves, 
and it was almost impossible to keep still. It received 
a tremendous encore. 

Joachim is so bold ! You never imagined such 
strokes as he gives the violin — such tones as he brings 
out of it. He plays these great tours deforce, his fin- 
gers rushing all over the violin, just as Tausig dashes 
down on the piano. So free ! And then his concep- 
tion ! ! It is like revealing Beethoven in the flesh, to 
hear him. 

(Ill) 



112 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

I heard a lady pianist the other day, who is becoming 
very celebrated and who plays superbly. Her name 
is Fraulein Menter, and she is from Munich. She has 
been a pupil of Liszt, Tausig and Biilow. Think Avhat 
a galaxy of teachers ! She is as pretty as she can 
be, and she looked lovely sitting at the piano there 
and playing piece after piece. I envied her dreadfully. 
She plays everything by heart, and has a beautiful 
conception. She gave her concert entirely alone, 
except that some one sang a few songs, and at the end 
Tausig played a duet for two pianos with her, in which 
he took the second piano. Imagine being able to play 
well enough for such a high artist as he to condescend to 
do such a thing ! It was so pretty when they were 
encored. He made a sign to go forward. She looked 
up inquiringly, and then stepped down one step 
lower than he. He smiled and applauded her as much 
an anybody. I thought it was very gallant in him to 
stand there and clap his hands before the whole audi- 
ence, and not take any of the encore to himself, for 
his part was as important as hers, and he is a much 
greater artist. I was charmed with her, though. She 
goes far beyond Mehlig and Topp, though Mehlig, too, 
is considered to have a remarkable technique. 

I regret so much that M. will have to go back to 
America without seeing Paris — the most beautiful city 
in the world ! "N^obody knows'how long the war is going 
to last. The Prussians have so surrounded Paris that 
it is cut off from the country, and can't get any sup- 
plies. They have eaten up all their meat, and now 
the French are living upon rats, dogs and cats ! Just 



THE SIEGE OF PARIS. 113 

think how horrid ! They catch the rats in the Paris 
sewers, and cook them in champagne and eat them. 
(At least that is the story.) It seems perfectly incon- 
ceivable. The poor things have no milk, no salt, no 
butter and no meat. I wonder what they do with all 
the little babies whose mothers can't nurse them, and 
with young children. They will not give up, however, 
for they have bread and wine enough to last all winter, 
and they declare that Paris is too strong to be taken. 
Of course if the Prussians remain where they are, 
eventually Paris will be starved out, and will be obliged 
to surrender. 

It is a difficult position for the Prussians, for they 
must either bombard the city, or starve it out. If 
they bombard it, they must be in a situation to begin 
it from all sides, or else the French will break through 
their lines, and establish a communication with the 
rest of France. Now the circle round Paris is twelve 
miles long, so that it would take an enormous army to 
keep up such a bombardment, and although the Prus- 
sian army is enormous, I don't know whether it is 
equal to that, for the French have so much the advan- 
tage of position that they can fire down on the Prus- 
sians, and kill them by thousands. On the other hand, 
if they starve Paris out, the poor soldiers will have to lie 
out in the cold all winter, and many of them will die 
from the exposure. 

The men are getting very restless from so many 

weeks of inactivity. Nobody knows how it is to end. 

The King is opposed to bombardment, for aside from 

the terrible loss of life it would cause, it seems too 

8 



114 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

inhuman to lay such a splendid city in the dust. 
Fresh troops are sent on all the time, and every day 
the trains pass my windows packed with soldiers. It 
seems as if every man in Germany were being called 
out, and that looks like bombardment. It is a terrible 
time, and everybody feels restless and disturbed. One 
sees few soldiers on the streets except wounded ones. 
I often meet a young man who is wheeled about in a 
chair, who has had both legs cut off. The poor fellow 
looks so sad — and I know of another who has lost both 
hands and both feet. 

It is curious to note the condescending attitude 
taken by people here toward the French in this war. 
They never for a moment speak of them as if they 
were antagonists on equal ground, but always as if 
they were a set of fools bent on their own destruction, 
who must be properly chastised and restored to their 
equilibrium by the Germans. " Jal — die Franzosen!" 
the Germans will say with a shrug which implies the 
deepest conviction of their entire imbecility. They 
admit, however, that the French are an " amusing 
people," and that "Paris ist doch die Welt-Stadt. 
(Paris is the city of the world.)" 



Berlin, February 26, 1871. 

I am going to send you a song out of the Meister- 
sanger, which I think is one of the most beautiful 
songs I've ever heard. It is called Walther's Traumlied 
(Walter's Dream Song). The idea of it is that he 
sees his love in a dream or vision as she will be when 



PEACE DECLARED. 115 



she is his wife. You must begin to sing in a dreamy 
way, as if you were in a trance, and then you must 
gradually become more and more excited until you 
end in a grand gush of passion. You will be quite in 
the music of the future if you sing out of the Meist- 
ersanger. It is one of Wagner's greatest operas, and 
is very beautiful, in my opinion. It caused a grand 
excitement when it came out last winter. 

The whole musical world is in a quarrel over Wag- 
ner. He is giving a new direction to music and is 
"finding out new combinations of the chords. Half 
the musical world upholds him, and declares that in 
the future he will stand on a par with Beethoven and 
Mozart. The other half are bitterly opposed to him, 
and say that he writes nothing but dissonances, and 
that he is on an entirely false track. I am on the 
Wagner side myself. He seems to me to be a great 
genius. — Pity he is such a moral outlaw ! 

Since I began this letter Paris has capitulated, and 
PEACE has been declared. The anxiety and suspense 
have lasted so long, however, that the news did not 
cause much excitement or enthusiasm. Nothing like 
that with which the capture of ]N"apoleon was received. 
But that was decidedly the event of the war. The 
politic Bismarck would not allow the troops to march 
triumphantly through Paris, but only permitted them 
to pass through as small a corner of it as was consist- 
ent with the national honour. This has caused a good 
deal of murmuring and discontent among the Germans. 
— " Our poor soldiers ! after all their fatigues and hard- 
ships, they ought have been allowed the satisfaction of 



116 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

marching through the city !" — is the general opinion 
I hear expressed. However, they will probably ac- 
quiesce in Bismarck's wisdom in not triumphing over 
a fallen foe when they come to think it over. We 
are now to have six weeks of mourning for those who 
have been killed in the war, and then in May the army 
will come back in triumph. The King is to meet them 
at the Brandenburger Gate, and lead them up the 
Linden. All Berlin will be wild with excitement, and 
I expect it will be a great sight. The windows on 
Unter den Linden are already selling at enormous 
prices for the occasion. 

The Germans, by the way, " take no stock " at all in 
the King's pious expressions throughout the campaign. 
They laugh at him greatly for calling himself vic- 
torious " by the grace of God." " Such a nonsense !" 
Herr J. says, contemptuously. 



Berlin, April 22, 1871. 

I haven't a mortal thing to say, for all the little I 
have done I communicated in a letter to N. S. Kul- 
lak has been praising my playing lately, but I cannot 
believe in it myself. I have been learning a Ballade 
of Liszt's. It is beautiful but very hard, and with some 
terrific octave passages in it. It has the double roll of 
octaves in it, and this is the first time I ever learned 
how it was done. I am now studying octaves system- 
atically. Kullak has written three books of them, and 
it is an exhaustive work on the subject, and as famous 
in its way as the Gradus ad Parnassum. The first vol- 



A WOMAN'S SYMPHONY. 117 

1 

ume is only the preparation, and the exercises are for 
each hand separately. There are a lot of them for 
the thumb alone, for instance. Then there are others 
for the fourth and fifth fingers, turning over and un- 
der each other in every conceivable way. Then there 
are the wrist exercises, and, in short, it is the most 
minute and complete work. Kullak himself is cele- 
brated for his octave playing. That I knew when I 
was in Tausig's conservatory, as Tausig used to tell his 
scholars that they must study Kullak's Octave School. 

Wagner has come to Berlin for a visit, and next 
week he will have a grand concert, when some of his 
compositions are to be brought out, and he will, him- 
self, conduct. Weitzmann says that he is a great con- 
ductor. I heard his opera of Tannhaiiser the other 
day, and I was perfectly carried away with the over- 
ture, which I had not heard for a long time. The 
orchestra played it magnificently, and I think it quite 
equal to Beethoven. Wagner's theory is that music is 
a cry of the mind, and his compositions certainly illus- 
trate it. All other music pales before it in passion 
and intensity. 

Did you read my letter to N. S. in which I told her 
about Alicia Hund, who composed and conducted a 
symphony? That is quite a step for women in the 
musical line. She reminded me of M., as she had just 
such a high-strung face. All the men were highly 
disgusted because she was allowed to conduct the or- 
chestra herself. I didn't think myself that it was a 
very becoming position, though I had no prejudice 
against it. Somehow, a woman doesn't look well with 
a baton in her hand directing a body of men. 



118 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



Berlin, May 18, 1871. 

"Wagner has just been in Berlin, and his arrival here 
has been the occasion of a grand musical excitement. 
He was received with the greatest enthusiasm, and 
there was no end of ovations in his honour. First, 
there was a great supper given to him, which was got 
up by Tausig and a few other distinguished musicians. 
Then on Sunday, two weeks ago, was given a concert 
in the Sing-Akademie, where the seats were free. As 
the hall only holds about fifteen hundred people, you 
may imagine it was pretty difficult to get tickets. I 
didn't even attempt it, but luckily Weitzmann, my 
harmony teacher, who is an old friend of Wagner's, 
sent me one. 

The orchestra was immense. It was carefully se- 
lected from all tlie orchestras in Berlin, and Stern, who 
directed it, had given himself infinite trouble in train- 
ing it. Wagner is the most difficult person in the 
world to please, and is a wonderful conductor himself. 
He was highly discontented with the Ge wand bans Or- 
chestra in Leipsic, which thinks itself the best in ex- 
istence, so the Berlinese felt rather shaky. The hall 
was filled to overflowing, and finally, in marched Wag- 
ner and his wife, preceded and followed by various 
distinguished musicians. As he appeared the audience 
rose, the orchestra struck up three clanging chords, 
and everybody shouted Hoch! It gave one a strange 
thrill. 

The concert was at twelve, and was preceded by a 
"greeting" which was recited by Frau Jachmann 



THE WAGNEK CONCERT. 119 

Wagner, a niece of Wagner's, and an actress. She was 
a pretty woman, " fair, fat and forty," and an excellent 
speaker. As she concluded she burst into tears, and 
stepping down from the stage she presented Wagner 
with a laurel crown, and kissed him. Then the or- 
chestra played Wagner's Faust Overture most superbly, 
and afterwards his Fest March from the Tannhauser. 
The applause was unbounded. Wagner ascended the 
stage and made a little speech, in wdiich he expressed 
his pleasure to the musicians and to Stern, and then 
turned and addressed the audience. He spoke very 
rapidly and in that child-like way that all great musi- 
cians seem to have, and as a proof of his satisfaction 
with the orchestra he requested them to play the Faust 
Overture under his direction. We were all on tiptoe 
to know how he would direct, and indeed it was won- 
derful to see him. He controlled the orchestra as if 
it were a single instrument and he were playing on it. 
He didn't beat the time simply, as most conductors do, 
but he had all sorts of little ways to indicate what he 
wished. It was very difficult for them to follow him, 
and they had to " keep their little eye open," as B. 
used to say. He held them down during the first part, 
so as to give the uncertainty and speculativeness of 
Faust's character. Then as Mephistopheles came in, 
he gradually let them loose with a terrible crescendo, 
and made you feel as if hell suddenly gaped at your 
feet. Then where Gretchen appeared, all was delicious 
melody and sweetness. And so it went on, like a suc- 
cession of pictures. The effect was tremendous. 
I had one of the best seats in the house, and could 



120 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

see Wagner and his wife the whole time. He has an 
enormous forehead, and is the most nervous-looking 
man you can imagine, but has that grim setting of the 
mouth that betokens an iron will. When he conducts 
he is almost beside himself with excitement. That is 
one reason why he is so great as a conductor, for the 
orchestra catches his frenzy, and each man plays un- 
der a sudden inspiration. He really seems to be im- 
provising on his orchestra. 

Wagner's object in coming here was to try and get 
his Nibelungen opera performed. It is an opera which 
requires four evenings to get through with. Did you 
ever hear of such a thing? He lays out everything 
on such a colossal scale. It reminded me of that story 
they tell of him when he was a boy. He was a 
great Shakespeare enthusiast, and wanted to write 
plays, too. So he wrote one in which he killed off 
forty of the principal characters in the last act ! He 
gave a grand concert in the opera house here, which 
he directed himself. It was entirely his own composi- 
tions, with the exception of Beethoven's Fifth Sym- 
phony, which he declared nobody understood but him- 
self. That rather took down Berlin, but all had to 
acknowledge after the concert that they had never 
heard it so magnificently played. He has his own 
peculiar conception of it. There was a great crowd, 
and every seat had been taken long before. All the 
artists were present except Kullak, who was ill. I saw 
Tausig sitting in the front rank with the Baroness 
von S. There must have been two hundred players in 
the orchestra, and they acquitted themselves splen- 



WAGNER CONDUCTING. 121 

didly. The applause grew more and more enthusi- 
astic, until it finally found vent in a shower of wreaths 
and bouquets. Wagner bowed and bowed, and it 
seemed as if the people would never settle down again. 
At the end of the concert followed another shower of 
flowers, and his Kaiser March was encored. Such an 
effect ! After^ the tempest of sound of the introduc- 
tion the drums came in with a sharp tat-tat-tat-tat- 
tat ! Then the brass began with the air and came to a 
crescendo, at last blaring out in such a way as shivered 
you to the very marrow of your bones. It was like an 
earthquake yawning before you. 

The noise was so tremendous that it was like the 
roaring of the surf. I never conceived of anything 
in music to approach it, and Wagner made me think 
of a giant Triton disporting himself amid the billows 
and tossing these great waves of sound from one hand 
to the other. You don^t see his face, of course — noth- 
ing but his back, and yet you know every one of his 
emotions. Every sinew in his body speaks. He 
makes the instruments prolong the tones as no one 
else does, and the effect is indescribably beautiful, yet 
he complains that he never can get an orchestra to 
hold the tone as they ought. His whole appearance 
is of arrogance and despotism personified. 

By the end of the concert the bouquets were so 
heaped on the stage in front of the director's desk, 
that Wagner had no place left big enough to stand on 
without crushing them. Altogether, it was a bril- 
liant affair, and a great triumph for his friends. He 
has a great many bitter enemies here, however. Joa- 



122 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

chim is one of them, though it seems unaccountable 
that a man of his musical gifts should be. Ehlert 
is also a strong anti-Wagnerite, and the Jews hate 
him intensely. — Perhaps his character has something 
to do with it, for he has set all laws of honour, gratitude 
and morality at defiance all his life long. It is a dread- 
ful example for younger artists, and I think AVagner is 
depraving them. In this country everything is forgiven 
to audacity and genius, and I must say that if Ger- 
many can teach us Music, we can teach her morals ! 



CHAPTER IX. 

DiflSculties of the Piano. Triumphal Entry of the Troops. 

Paris. 

Berlin, June 25, 1871. 

I have been learning Beethoven's G major Concerto 
lately, and it is the most horribly difficult thing IVe 
ever attempted. I have practiced the first movement 
a whole month, and I can't play it any more than I 
can fly. If you hear Miss Mehlig play it, I trust you 
will take in what a feat it is. Kullak gave me a reg- 
ular rating over it at my last lesson, and told me I 
must stick to it till I could play it. It requires the 
greatest rapidity and facility of execution, and I get 
perfectly desperate over it. Kullak took advantage 
of the occasion to expand upon all the things an artist 
must be able to do, until my heart died within me. 
" "UTiat do you know of double thirds?" said he. I 
had to admit that I knew nothing of double thirds, 
and then he rushed down the piano like lightning 
from top to bottom in a scale in double thirds, just as 
if it were a common scale. 

In one respect Kullak is a more discouraging teacher 
than Tausig, for Tausig only played occasionally 
before you, where it was absolutely necessary, and con- 
tented himself with scolding and blaming. Kullak, 
on the contrary, doesn't scold much, but as he plays 
continually before and with you, with him you see 

(123) 



124 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

how the thing ought to be done, and the perception 
of your own deficiencies stands out before you merci- 
lessly. My constant thought is, "AVhen icill my pas- 
sages pearl? WhenvjeY/ my touch be perfectly equal? 
When will my octaves be played from a lightly-hung 
wrist? When will my trill be brilliant and sustained? 
When vnll my thumb turn under and my fourth fin- 
ger over without the slightest perceptible break? 
When will my arpeggios go up the piano in that 
peculiar roll that a genuine artist gives?" etc., etc. 
All tliis gives a heavy heart, and so disinclines me to 
write that you must excuse my frequent silences. 

We are having such a horrid cold summer that I 
sit and shiver all the time. I wish we could have a 
little of the hot weather you speak of. I have put on 
a muslin dress only once. Berlin is a very severe cli- 
mate, I think. 

The week before last was the triumphal entry or 
" Einzug " of the troops. They all went past my win- 
dow, so I had a full view of them. The Emperor had 
made immense preparations, for he is very proud of 
his army. All along the Koniggrittzer Strasse (the 
street we live in), to the Brandenburger Gate, a dis- 
tance of tAvo or three miles, were set tall poles at inter- 
vals of a few feet, connected by wreaths of green. 
These were painted red and white, and had gilded pin- 
nacles ; they were surmounted by the Prussian flag, 
which is black and white, with a black eagle in the 
centre. About half way down the poles was set a coat 
of arms, with the flags of the older German States 
grouped about it. As they were of dilferent colours, 



REJOICING BERLIN. 125 

the effect was very gay, and they made a triumphal 
path of waying banners for the troops to pass under. 
All along the last part of the Koniggratzer Strasse, 
before you come to the Linden, were set the French 
cannon which were captured, and on them was printed 
the name of the place where the battle was, and one 
read on them " Metz, Sedan, Strasburg/' etc. All up 
the Linden, too, the way for the soldiers was hemmed 
in on each side with cannon. The mitrailleuses inter- 
ested me the most, because they had thirty bores in 
each one, and could fire as many balls in succession. 
In this way, you see, a single cannon could rain shot. 
Luckily the French aim so badly that they couldn't 
have killed half so many Prussians as they expected. 
On eyery Platz (as the G-ermans call the squares), were 
columns and statues set up, and enormous scaffolds for 
people to sit on, all decked out with flags and coloured 
cloth. In short, the whole city was got up in gala 
array, and looked as gay as possible. 

Of course there were thousands of strangers who had 
come on to see it, and the streets were crowded. For 
about a week beforehand there was one continual stream 
of people going by our house, and a long line of car- 
riages and droschkies as far as one could see, creeping 
along at a snail's pace behind each other. I got worn out 
with the noise and confusion long before the eventful 
day came. When it did arrive, already at six o'clock in 
the morning, when I looked out of my window, the walls 
of Prince Albrecht's garden opposite were covered with 
boys and men, and there they had to sit until nearly twelve 
o'clock, with their legs dangling down, and nothing to eat 



126 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

or drink, before the procession came by, and then it 
took four hours to pass ! Such is German endur- 
ance, and a still more striking instance of it was shown 
by an orchestra stationed on the sidewalk opposite my 
window. There were no seats or awnings for them, and 
there they stood on the stones in the hot sun for fully 
six hours, playing every little while on those heavy 
French horns and trumpets. Just imagine it ! I was 
astonished that there was no scaffold erected for them 
to sit on, and wondered how the poor fellows could stand 
it. 

Just before eleven o'clock the gate of Prince Albrecht's 
garden flew open, and out he rode, accompanied by a 
large suite, and they remained there awaiting the Em- 
peror, who was to ride by on his way to meet the troops. 
I wish you could have seen them in their superb uniforms, 
seated on their magnificent horses. They looked like 
knights of the olden time, with their embroidered saddle- 
cloths and gay trappings. Preceding the Emperor came 
the Empress and all the ladies of the royal family in 
about ten carriages, each one with six horses and the 
Empress's with eight. The ladies were gorgeously dressed, 
of course, in light coloured silks with lace over-dresses. 
Then came the Emperor and his escort, riding slowly and 
majestically along. The enthusiasm was immense as they 
passed by, and they were indeed a proud sight. Bismarck, 
Moltke and Von Roon rode in one row by themselves. Bis- 
marck looked very imposing in his uniform entirely of 
white and silver, with enormous top-boots, and a brazen 
helmet surmounted by a silver eagle. There was eveiy 
variety of uniform, and the Crown Prince looked very 



THE VICTORIOUS ARMY. 127 

handsome in his. He is a splendid-looking man, with a 
very soldierly bearmg, and he rides to perfection. 

The royal party went out to the parade ground, where 
they met the army, and then returned at the head of it, 
riding very slowly. Then, for four hours, the soldiers 
poured by at a very quick step. If you could have seen 
that river of men roll along, you would have some idea 
of the strength of this nation. They were tall for the 
most part, and their helmets and guns glittered in the 
sun. They were dressed in their old uniforms, just 
as they came from the field of battle. The people 
showered wreaths and bouquets upon them as they passed, 
and every man presented a festal appearance with his 
helmet crowned, a bouquet on the point of his bayonet, 
and flowers in his button hole. The Emperor's way was 
literally carpeted with flowers, and his grooms rode be- 
hind him picking them up, and hanging the wreaths upon 
their saddle-bows. Bismarck, Moltke and Von Roon 
and all the men of mark during the war were similarly 
favoured. 

The army marched along at an astonishingly quick 
pace. I was surprised to see them walk so fast, heavily 
laden as they were with their guns and knapsacks and 
blankets, etc. Many of them had been marching a 
good part of the night to get to the place of rendezvous, 
and they had had a parade early in the morning. A 
good many of them fainted and had to be carried out of 
the ranks, and eight of them died ! It was the hottest 
day we have had this summer. — I was the most inter- 
ested in the Uhlanen. They were the greatest terror of 
the French, and were light cavalry with no arms except 



138 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

a large pistol and a lance. Just below the head of the 
lance was a little Prussian flag attached, and nearly every 
one was splashed with the blood of some poor French- 
man. When one looked at those terrible spikes, it 
seemed a most dreadful death, and I don't wonder that 
the French lost all courage at the sight of them. You 
see, being on horseback and so lightly armed, the Uh- 
lanen could go about like lightning, and were able to 
appear suddenly at the most unexpected points. As I 
was not on the Linden I did not see the army received at 
the Brandenburger Gate by the four hundred young 
ladies dressed in white, so I can't give you any account 
of that. Bismarck, who always knows what to do, took 
a liandful of wreaths from his saddle-bow, and flung 
them smilingly over among the welcoming anaidens. He 
is a courtly creature. I was nearly dead from just look- 
ing out of my window, and listening to the continual 
music of the bands, and I did not get over the fatigue 
and nervous excitement for several days ; but I was very 
fortunate to be able to see it from the house, for many 
persons who had to sit on the scaffolds were dreadfully 
burned, and were thrown into a fever by it. You see they 
weren't allowed to put up their parasols, as that obscured 
the view of the people behind tliem. I had one friend 
who suffered awfully with her face, and did not sleep for 
three nights. She said it was as if she had been burnt 
by fire, and the whole skin peeled off. 

July 4th. — As usual, it is over a week since I began 
this letter, and I have just decided to start at once on a 
summer journey with Mrs. and Miss V. N., Mr. P. and 
Mrs., Mr. and Miss S. Kullak is away for his vaca- 



AN ENGLISH ARISTOCRAT. 129 

tion, so I shall lose no lessons. We shall go first to 
Cologne and then to Bonn and Coblentz and down 
the Rhine. Perhaps we shall get as far as Heidelberg. 
We got one of those return tickets, which makes the 
journey very cheap ; only you are limited to a certain 
time. We expect to be gone until the 1 st of August. 
I intend to walk a great deal between the different 
points. Where the scenery is picturesque we shall 
occasionally walk from station to station. We take 
no baggage except a little bag (which we sling 
over our backs with straps), containing a change of 
linen and a brush and comb and tooth brush. We 
shall wear the same dress all the time and have our 
linen washed at the hotel. I thought it was a good 
chance for me, and as we shall be a party of embryo 
artists, we expect to go along in the Bohemian and 
happy-go-lucky style of our class. I think of writing 
a novel on the way! Won't it be romantic? Only, 
unluckily for Miss S. and myself, we shall have no 
adorers, as Mr. P. and Miss V. G. are engaged, and 
Mr. S. is only about eighteen ! 

Just before the Einzug I was at a party at the 
Bancroft's, and was standing near a doorway talking 
to one of N.'s class-mates in Harvard, when a portly 
gentleman pushed very rudely between us and stood 
there talking to Mr. Bancroft, who was on the other 
side of me. We gazed at him for a minute before we 
went on with our conversation. Presently the gentle- 
man took his leave and bustled away. " That was the 
Duke of Somerset," said Mr. Bancroft to me. I was 
rather surprised, for I had just been thinking to my- 
9 



130 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

self, " What an unmannerly creature you are !" — I 
suppose he had come on to the Einzug. 

Triumphant Berlin, by the way, is rather a contrast 
to Paris under the Commune. Such a horrible time 
as they have been having there I It is enough to 
make one's blood run cold to think of it. What 
insane barbarians they are — and the worst of it is the 
part the women take in it. I saw a picture of Thiers' 
house which they burnt down. It was a magnificent 
mansion, and crammed full of exquisite works of art. 
Mr. Bancroft grieved over it, for he had dined there, 
and knew what treasures it contained. He said it was 
one of the most beautiful houses he had ever been in. 
— And then the idea of pulling down the column of 
the Place Vendome ! Napoleon had built it from 
cannon which he had captured in his great battles and 
melted down, so that in a special manner it was a 
monument of their victories over other nations. 
There is a stupidity about them which makes them 
perfectly pitiable. 

Lin 1848 Saint Benve wrote the following almost 
prophetic words : " Nothing is 'swifter to decline in 
crises like the present (the Revolution of 1848) than 
civilization. In three weeks the result of many cen- 
turies are lost. Civilization, life, is a thing learned 
and invented. * * * * After years of tranquil- 
ity men are too forgetful of this truth ; they come to 
think that culture is innate, that it is the same thing 
as nature. But in truth barbarism is but a few paces 
off and begins again as soon as our hold is slackened."] 
—Ed. 



CHAPTER X. 

A Rhine Journey. Frankfort. Mainz. Sail down the Rhine. 

Cologne. Bonn. The Seven Mountains. Worros. 

Spire. Heidelberg. Tausig's Death. 

RoLANDSECK AM Rhein, July 14, 1871. 

You will be surprised to get this letter, dated from 
a little village on the Rhine, and I shall proceed to 
tell you how I came here, if the vilest of vile paper 
and pens will permit. I wrote a letter to L. just be- 
fore I left Berlin, in which I informed her that I 
meant to go on a little trip with a party of friends, as 
Berlin in summer is malarious, nnd I felt the need of 
a change. 

Thursday a week ago we left Berlin and rode 
straight through to Frankfort. It was a long jour- 
ney, and lasted from six o'clock in the morning until 
ten at night. I got up at four in the morning in a 
most halcyon frame of mind. In fact, I felt as if I were 
going to get married, owing to my putting on every- 
thing new from top to toe ! The laundress had 
made such ravages upon my linen that I found myself 
suddenly obliged to replenish throughout, and conse- 
quently I arrayed myself with great satisfaction in 
new stockings, new under-clothes, new flannel, new 
skirts, new hat, new veil and new shoes to boot! I 
put on my black silk short suit, took my bag and 

(131) 



132 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

shawl, and sallied to the station, where I found the 
others waiting for me. 

It was a lovely ride from Berlin to Frankfort, and 
having been shut up in a city for nearly two years, the 
country appeared perfectly charming and new to me, 
and every little smiling tuft of daisies had a special 
significance. I don't know whether you stopped at 
Frankfort on vour travels. I fell dead in love with it, 
and liked it better than any part of Germany I have 
seen. It is such a quiet town and has such an air of 
elegance, and there are such lovely walks all about. 
Everything looks so clean, and the streets are so hand- 
somely laid out, and then there are no smells, as there 
are in Berlin. The river flows all along the outside of 
the city, and the promenade along it is delightful. I 
went to see the house where my adorable Goethe was 
born, and afterward walked over the bridge over which 
he used to go to school. There was a gilded cock 
perched upon it, which he used to be very fond of as 
a child. We saw his statue, and then visited the Mu- 
seum where was Danecker's great masterpiece, Ari- 
adne sitting on the Panther. It is the most ex- 
quisite thing, and it is cut out of one solid block of 
Carrara marble. Through a pink curtain a rosy light 
is thrown on it from above, which gives the marble a 
delicious tinge. Strange that he should have risen to 
such a poetic conception, and never done anything 
afterwards of importance. 

We went into a great room where life-size pictures 
of all the Emperors of Germany were. Some of them 
are very handsome men, and the Latin mottoes under- 



MAINZ. 133 



iieath are very funny. One of them was : " If you 
don't know how to hold your tongue, you'll never know 
the right place to speak." I hope P. will keep L. well 
at her Latin and her history, and teach her something 
about architecture and mythology, for these one needs 
to know when one travels abroad. We only stayed 
one day in Frankfort, for there isn't a great deal to 
be seen there. The afternoon we spent in walking 
about and in sitting on logs by the river-side. Oh, 
what a sweet place one of those beautiful villas by the 
swiftly flowing river would be to live in ! 

We left Frankfort at seven P. M., and rode to 
Mairiz, which is only a ride of two hours, I believe. 
As we came over the railroad bridge into the town, we 
got our first glimpse of the Rhine, and it was a splendid 
sight. Our hotel was very near the river, and as our 
rooms were front rooms, and three stories up, w^e had 
a magnificent view of it. In the evening it was so fas- 
cinating to watch the lights on the water and the boats 
plying up and down, that it was long before we could 
make up our minds to leave the windows and go to 
bed. At Mainz we saw our first cathedral. It is six 
hundred years old, and had suffered six times by fire, 
but it was very fine, notwithstanding. We spent a long 
time studying it out. Afterwards we visited another 
church and ascended a tower which was built 30, B. 0. 
It seemed almost as firm as the day it was finished. 
The view from it is magnificent, and the top of it is 
all overgrown with harebells, golden rod and grass. It 
was very picturesque. 

On Sunday evening we took the boat for Cologne 



134 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

which we reached at four o'clock in the afternoon. 
Oh, that sail down the Rhine was too delicious ! The 
weather was perfect, and everything seemed to me like 
a fairy tale. It is one of the most beautiful parts of 
the Rhine, and it was too lovely to see those old castles 
in eveiy degree of ruin, jutting out over the steep 
rocks, so high in the air, and then the vineyards slop- 
ing down the hillsides to the water's edge. The whole 
lay of the land was so exquisite. I didn't wonder that 
it is so celebrated, and that so much has been written 
about it. A funny old Englishman came and sat be- 
side me, and we had a long conversation, pretty much 
as follows : 

Englishman. — "England is no doubt the finest 
country in the world. You know the people there are 
so enormous rich, they can do as they please." " Ah, 
indeed," said I, " have you travelled much in Ger- 
many?" "Oyes! I've been all over Germany. I 
come up the Rhine every year," said he. " It's all very 
pretty when you've never seen it before, but it's noth- 
ing to me now." "Have you been to Berlin?" asked 
I. " yes," said he. ** Shouldn't want to live there. 
Your Prussians are so confounded arrogant. They 
think they're the greatest people in the world." " How 
did you like Dresden ?" said I. "Stupid hole," said 
he. "Leipsic?" "Dull town." "Stuttgardt?" "Quite 
pretty." " Kissingen ?" " 'Orrible place, nothing but 
fanatics ; every other day a Saint's day, and the shops 
shut up." "Wiesbaden?" " Very fine place." "Ems?" 
"Never been to Hems." "Mainz?" "Nasty hole." 
"Cologne?" " Stinking place." "Munich?" "Dread- 



COLOGNE CATHEDRAL. 135 

f ul unhealthy. They have fevers there, typhus, etc. 
I call 'em fevers." "How do you like the Ehine 
wines ?" " Don't like them at all. It's very seldom 
a man gets to drink a decent glass of wine here. I 
don't drink 'em at all. I like a glass of port." " Beer ?" 
" 0, the German beer isn't fit to drink. The English 
beer is the best in the world. German beer is 'orrible 
bad stuff. J^othing but slops, — slops !" Here I burst 
out laughing, for his flattering descriptions were too 
much for me. He gave me a quizzical look and said, 
" Well, I'm glad I made you laugh. You're from 
America, aren't you?" "Yes," said I. "Very un- 
healthy place, I'm told." "Indeed? I never heard 
so," said I. " yes, veryP^ said he. Then he went 
off, and after a long while he returned. " I've been 
asleep," said he, " I've slept two hours and a half, all 
through the fine scenery." " WhatT said I, " don't 
you enjoy it?" ^^^"o, I don't enjoy it at all." Then 
he told me he lived in Kotterdam, and that I must 
come to Holland. He was very complaisant over the 
Dutch, whom he said were " nice, decent people, like 
the English. There's nothing of the German in them," 
said he, " they're quite another people — not so en- 
^A?<si-astic," — with a contemptuous air. We got out 
at Cologne, and he went on to his dear Eotterdam. 
So I saw him no more. 

Oh! isn't the Cologne Cathedral magnificent? 11 
quite took my breath away as I entered it. The priests 
were just having vespers as we went in, and there was 
scarcely a person in the cathedral beside. It was so 
solemn and so touching to see them all by themselves 



136 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



intoning the prayers, their voices swelling and falling 
in that vast place. And when the superb organ struck 
up, and they began to sing a hymn, so wildly sweet, 
with an interlude most beautifully worked up at the 
end of each line by the organist — as we sat there under 
those great arches which soar up to such an immense 
height, I felt as if I were in Heaven. 



Andernach, July 16, 1871. 

I believe I left off in my last with our arrival at 
Cologne, of which I saw very little, as I was extremely 
tired, and remained at the hotel. The Cathedral was, 
of course, the main point of interest, and that I saw 
thoroughly, as I went to it twice, and spent a number 
of hours each time. I was entirely carried away by 
its beauty and grandeur, as everybody must be. The 
descriptions 1 had heard and the photographs I had seen 
of it didn't prepare me at all. The /height of the 
great pile is one of the most astounding things, I 
think. The three and four story houses about it look 
like huts beside it. Beside the Cathedral I only saw 
the church where the eleven thousand virgins are 
buried, but that was more curious than beautiful. — I 
was much taken down by the shops in Cologne, which 
I think much finer than the Berlin ones, and saw no 
end of things in the windows I should like to have 
bought. The cravats alone quite turned my head ! 

We only spent two days in Cologne, and then sailed 
for Bonn, which is but a very short distance. Here 
we were in a hotel directly upon the river, and I had 



BONN. 137 

a sweet little room quite to myself. The view up and 
down the river was superb, and we could see the Seven 
Mountains most beautifully. Bonn is the most quiet, 
sleepy little town you can imagine, and just the place 
to study, I should think. We saw the house where 
Beethoven was born, a little yellow, two-story house, 
and then we visited the Minster, which is nine hun- 
dred years old. We saw there a tomb devoted to the 
memory of the first architect of the Cologne Cathe- 
dral, with his statue lying upon it. He had a 
severely beautiful face, and I could very well imagine 
him capable of such a great conception. We had 
great difficulty in getting a dinner at Bonn, as, being 
a university town, the students gobble up everything. 
Finally, we found a little restaurant where they got 
us up one, consisting of steak and potatoes. After 
dinner I went to walk with Mr. S. and we ate cherries 
all the way, and finally sat down on a bench by the 
river's side, where we had an enchanting view. Then 
we went back to the hotel, and I went directly to bed. 
It was delicious to lie there and hear the little waves 
washing up outside my window. It is just the place 
for a honey-moon — so out of the world as it seems, 
and with none of the activity and bustle of other cities. 
At six o'clock the next morning we took the boat, and 
in about half an hour we landed at a little town on the 
side of the river opposite to Bonn, and began our pedes- 
trian tour through the Seven Mountains, of which we 
ascended and descended four. They were all very steep 
and difficult to climb, and it reminded me of my trip to 
Mount Mansfield, years ago, only then we had horses. 



138 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

We spent the night on one of them, the Lowen-berg 
(Lion-mountam). This was a funny experience, as all 
we five ladies had to sleep in one room, and in one great 
bed of straw made up on the floor. The fleas bit us all 
night, so we did not sleep too much. I mentioned the 
little fact to the sers-ant next day, to which she replied, 
"' Yes, when you are, n't used to fleas and bed-bugs, it is 
hard to sleep I" I agreed with her perfectly I — Our walk 
was enchanting in spite of the difficulty of the ascent, 
and of the fact that all of us had satchels slung over our 
shoulders, and a shawl and umbrella to carry, which 
made locomotion rather difficult. AYe were in the sylvan 
shades, following delicious footpaths scented with flowers, 
and with the birds singing and trilling as loud as they 
could over our heads. 

It was heavenly on the Lowenberg, for the view was 
glorious on every side, and it seemed as if we were on the 
highest peak in the universe. I sat for hours looking 
over the lovely country and following the meanderings of 
the Rhine. The atmospheric effects produced by the 
sunset were wonderful, and when it got to be nine o'clock 
we saw the lights twinkle up one by one from the dis- 
tant \'illages below like little earth-stars — reflections of 
the heavenly ones above. The last mountain we ascended 
was the Drachenfels (Dragon-rock), and a fearful pull 
it was. The three others had been so easy, comparatively, 
that we none of us knew what we were in for. Soon 
found out, though ! It was like trying to go up a wall, 
it was so steep. But when we got up we were rewarded, 
for the view was superb, and there was an interesting 
old Roman ruin up there. We wandered all about, and 



WORMS. 139 



got an excellent dinner, and then came down late in the 
afternoon, took a row boat and rowed across the Rhine 
to Rolandseck — a fashionable watering place, and as 
charming as G-erman towns have a way of benig. 



GoTHA, July 27, 1871. 

Since I wrote you from Andeniach I have been trav- 
eUing steadily. The whole party except Mrs. V. N. and 
myself made a pedestrian tour along the Rhine from 
Rolandseck to Bingen, a distance of sixty miles. 1 
staiiied to walk, but when I had gone fifteen miles I gave 
out, and was glad to take the boat. Mrs. V. N. was an 
invalid and couldn't walk, so I took charge of her, and 
we would travel on together. "Wlien we got to the sta- 
tion where we had agreed to wait for the others, I would 
seat her somewhere with the bags of the party piled up 
around her, and then I would make a sortie, look at the 
hotels, and engage our rooms. 

We saw the Rliine from Cologne to Worms veiy thor- 
ouglily — for we kept stopping all along. It is tnily mag- 
nificent, and nothmg can be more interesting and pic- 
turesque than those old ruined castles which look as if 
they had grown there. Bingen is the sweetest place, and 
just the spot to spend a summer. We travelled from 
there to Worms, which is a dehghtful old city. We 
were there, only an hour or two, but the walk from the 
boat to the cars was through the prettiest part of it, I 
should judge, and was very romantic, through winding 
walks overshadowed with trees. We saw that gi'eat Luther 
monument there, which is most imposing. The exterior 



140 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

of the Cathedral is splendid, and m quite another style 
of architecture from the Cologne Cathedral. From 
Worms we went to Spire, in order to see the Cathedral 
there, which is superb, and very celebrated. It was 
founded hi 1030 by Conrad the Second, as a burial place 
for himself and his successors. It has no stained win- 
dows at all, even in the chancel, which surprised me, but 
the frescoes and the whole interior colouring are gor- 
geous in the extreme. It is in the Romanesque style of 
architecture, and is so entirely different from the Cologne 
Cathedral that it was very interesting, but there's noth- 
ing equal to the Gothic, after aU. 

From Spire we went to Heidelberg. I was 
enchanted with Heidelberg. It is the most romantic 
and beautiful place I was ever in. The Castle is the 
prince of ruins. I had made up my mind all along 
that I was going to enjoy myself at Heidelberg, for 
my friend Dr. S. was studying there, and I knew I 
should have him to go about with. So I had been 
urging the party to go there from the first. As soon 
as we arrived, off I went to find him, which I soon 
accomplished. He was very glad to see me, and put 
himself at once at my disposal. You know the S.'s 
used to live at Heidelberg, among other places, so he 
knows it all by heart. After dinner we all went up to 
the Castle, of course. I was very sorry that I had 
never read H}^erion. AYe had to ascend a long hill 
before we got to it, bat the weather was perfect, so we 
didn't mind. It is so high up that the view of the 
town and of the Neckar winding through it, with the 
wooded hills on the opposite shore, is panoramic. 



HEIDELBERG CASTLE. 141 

The Castle itself is an enormous ruin, and very 
richly ornamented. I^'y two hundred years old climbs 
oyer it in great luxuriance. We passed through a gate- 
way over which stand two stone knights which are 
said to change places with each other at midnight^ 
and there are all sorts of charming stories like that 
connected with the place. We saw a beautifully 
carved stone archway which was put up in a single 
night, in honour of somebody's birthday, and a monu- 
ment with an inscription over it stood in one corner 
of the grounds, stating that here had stood some distin- 
guished personage (I always forget all the names,, 
unluckil}^, but "the j^rinciple remains the same"), when 
the Castle was being besieged by the French. Two- 
balls came from opposite directions, passed close by 
him, and struck against each other, miraculously leav- 
ing him unharmed ! 

After we had walked around the outside of the Cas- 
tle sufficiently we went inside. It took us a long time 
to go over it, it was so large. We saw the stone dun- 
geon, which was called the "]S"ever Empty," because 
somebody was always confined there — a dreadful hole, 
and it must have been in perfect darkness — and we 
saw the great Heidelberg cask which had a scaffolding 
on the top of it big enough to dance a quadrille on. 
But the finest of everything was the ascending of the 
tower. Just as we got to the top of it, and had begun to 
take in the magnificent scenery, an orchestra at a lit- 
tle distance below struck up Wagner's " Kaiser March." 
It was the one touch which was needed to make the 
ensemble perfect. On one side the landscape lay far 



142 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

below us, with the silver river winding through it; 
on the other the hills rose behind the Castle to an 
immense height, and with the greatest boldness of 
outline. The tops were thickly wooded, and lower 
down the trees were beautifully grouped, and the vel- 
vety turf rolled and swelled to the foot of the Castle. 
The sun was just setting in a clear sky, and cast long 
shadows athwart the scene, and I thought I had never 
seen anything more striking. Then to hear Wagner's 
Kaiser March by a well-trained orchestra come soar- 
ing up, made a combination such as one gets perhaps 
not more than once in a life-time. 

The march is superb, so pompous and majestic, 
and with delicious melodies occasionally interwoven 
through it. Wagner's melodies are so heavily and in- 
toxicatingly sweet, that they are almost narcotic. His 
music excites a set of emotions that no other music 
does, and he is a great original. It has the power of 
expressing longing and aspiration to a wonderful de- 
gree, and it always seems to me as if two impulses were 
continually trying to get the mastery. The one is the 
embodiment of all those vague yearnings of the soul 
to burst its prison house, and the other is the cradling 
of the body in the lap of pleasure. I always feel as 
if I should like to swoon away when I hear his com- 
positions. Then his harmonies are so strangely se- 
ductive, so complicated, so " grossartig," as the Ger- 
mans say, and so peculiar ! Oh, I have an immense 
admiration for him ! He thinks that music is not the 
impersonation of an idea, but that it is the idea. 

But to return to tlie Castle. — We stayed up in the 



NICOLAI RUBINSTEIN. 143 

tower for some time, and then we made the tour of the 
interior. Afterwards we walked and sat abont until 
all the party thought it was time to go back to the ho- 
tel. Dr. S. and I thought we would stay up there to 
supper. So we went where the orchestra was playing, 
which was in an enclosed space near the Castle. We 
took our seats at a little table in the open air, and 

ordered a delicious little supper, also 

" A bottle of wine 
To make us shine " 

in conversation ! — and so glided by the most ideal even- 
ing, as far as surroundings go, that I ever spent. 

In our hotel at Heidelberg I kept hearing a man 
play splendidly in the room below us, and every time 
we passed his door it was o]3en, and we could partly 
see the interior of a charming room with a grand piano 
in it, at which he was seated. A pretty woman was 
always lying back in the corner of the sofa listening to 
him, apparently. The presence of a large wax doll in- 
dicated that there must be a child about, and the per- 
fume of flowers stole through the open doorway. My 
interest was at once excited in these people, and I said 
to myself as I heard this gentleman practice everyday, 
" This must be some artist passing the summer here 
and getting up his winter programme." Accordingly, 
on Sunday afternoon when he was playing beautifully, 
I roused myself up and enquired of a servant who he 
was. " NTicolai Rubinstein, from St. Petersburg," re- 
plied she. He is the brother of the great Anton Ru- 
binstein, and is nearly as fine a pianist. I know a 
scholar of Tausig's who had studied with him, and 
Tausig had a high opinion of him. 



144 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

Oh, isn't it dreadful? Wlien we were at Bingen we 
saw the news of Tausig's death in the paper I He 
died at Leipsic, on the 17th of July, of t}^hus fever, 
brought on by over-taxing his musical memory. It 
was a dreadful blow to me, as you may imagine, and 
when I think of his wonderful playing silenced for- 
ever, and comparatively in the beginning of his career, 
I cannot get reconciled to it. If you could have heard 
those matchlessly trained fingers of his, you would be 
able to sympathize with me on the subject. I had 
counted so on hearing him next winter, for he gave no 
concerts in Berlin last winter. He was only thirty-one 
years old ! 



CHAPTER XL 

Eisenach. Gotha. Erfurt. Andernach. Weimar. Tausig. 

Berlin, August 15, 1871. 

Well, here I am back in smelly old Berlin ! I really 
hated to leave Heidelberg, it was such a paradisiacal 
spot, but we saw so much that was beautiful after- 
wards, that my impression of it has become a little 
dimmed. From Heidelberg we went to Eisenach, its 
rival in a different way, for here we went over the Wart- 
burg — the Castle famous for having been the dwelling 
of the holy St. Elizabeth, and where Luther translated 
the Bible and spent ten months of his life disguised 
as a knight. I saw^ his room, a bare and comfortless 
hole, but with a splendid view from the windows. The 
Castle is in good repair, and is a noble pile. I suppose the 
Duke of Weimar spends some time there every summer, 
as it looks as if it were lived in. It is endlessly inter- 
esting. There is a lovely little chapel in it where Lu- 
ther used to preach, with everything left in just as it 
was in his time — a little gem. The Wartburg is on a 
very high hill, and the views from it are superb. 
Among other things to be seen from it is the Venus- 
berg, which is the mountain Wagner has introduced 
in his famous opera of Tannhauser. He was so car- 
ried away by the Wartburg when he concealed himself 
near it, as he was being pursued by the government to 
be arrested as a revolutionary, twenty years ago, that 
10 (145) 



146 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

he never rested until he had united the legends of St. 
Elizabeth and of the Venusberg in his opera. Liszt, 
also, wrote an oratorio on St. Elizabeth as his tribute 
to the Wartburg. 

From Eisenach we went to Gotha, a lovely place, all 
shaded with trees, and surmounted by a very imposing 
castle, with two immense towers. It is an enormous 
edifice, and is surrounded by a magnificent park, 
through which goes the slowly winding river. I be- 
lieve that Gotha belongs to the Duke of Saxe-Coburg, 
brother of the Queen of England, or something. At all 
events, in the middle of this river is an island where 
the ducal family is buried, and it is so thickly planted 
with trees whose boughs hang over the water, that 
their graves are quite shrouded from the vulgar eye. 
Pretty idea! The river laps lazily against the grassy 
slope which covers the princely ones, and the wind 
rushing through the trees, sings their dirge. 

From Gotha we went to Erfurt, where we only spent 
one night, in order to see the Cathedral. Erfurt is an 
Undine of a place, full of running streams and bridges 
and mills roaring all about you. I saw one street 
with a brook rippling down the very middle of it at a 
most rattling pace, and at every little distance two or 
three stepping stones by which to cross it. Just think 
how fascinating for children I I longed to stay and 
have a good play there myself. The Erfurt Cathe- 
dral is much smaller than those of Spire and Cologne, 
but the exterior is wonderfully beautiful. The tran- 
sept is a masterpiece, and has fifteen enormous win- 
dows of rich old stained glass going round it. The 



A BEAUTIFUL SERVICE. 147 

nave did not please me so well, because in addition to 
its not being very rich, the side aisles were of equal 
height with the main body of the Cathedral, and were 
not sufficiently marked off from it to prevent the 
roof's looking like a ceiling. I believe the side aisles 
were of equal height with the main aisle in the Col- 
ogne Cathedral, but the archways and pillars cut them 
off more, so that it had a different effect. — I am more 
interested in cathedrals than anything else, and should 
like to travel all over Europe and see all the different 
ones. There is a lovely old church at Andernach, 
Roman Catholic, as most of the churches on the Rhine 
are. I went there to church one Sunday morning, and 
stayed through the service. They had the most pow- 
erful church music I've ever heard. There was an ex- 
cellent boy choir which sang in unison and led the con- 
gregation, every person of which joined in. The organ 
was fine, as was also the organist, and the singing was 
so universal that the old church walls rang again. 
The priest preached an excellent sermon, too — the best 
I have heard in Germany. 



Berlin, August 31, 1871. 

Germany is a most lovely country, and perfectly 
delicious to travel through. I believe I have described 
all the places we went to excepting Weimar. Weimar 
is delightful, and so interesting, because Goethe and 
Schiller, Wieland and Herder lived there, and every- 
thing is connected with them, and especially with the 
first two. There are many fine statues in the little 



148 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

city, and a delicious great park along the river which 
was laid out under Goethe's superintendence. — One 
group of Goethe and Schiller standing together in 
front of the theatre is magnificent. One hardly knows 
which to admire the most, Goethe, with his courtly 
mein and commanding features, or Schiller, with his 
extreme ideality and his head a little thrown back as 
if to take in inspiration direct from the sky. It is 
a most striking conception. 

The palace of the Grand Duke of Weimar is the 
principal " show " of the place. It is filled with the 
richest works of art, and is beautifully frescoed in 
rooms devoted each to a particular author, and repre- 
senting his most celebrated works. There is the 
Goethe room, and the Wieland room, etc. The Wie- 
land room is the most charming thing. The fres- 
coes on the walls are all illustrative of his " Oberon," 
which is his most celebrated work, and one picture 
represents what happened when Oberon blew his horn. 
You must know that when Oberon blows his horn 
everybody is obliged to dance. So in this picture he 
is represented blowing it in a convent, and all the' fat 
friars and nuns are dancing away like mad. They 
look so serious, and as if they didn't want to do it at 
all, but their feet will fly up in the air in spite of them. 
The nuns' slippers scarcely stick on, and it looks so 
absurd ! I was as highly amused at it as the mischiev- 
ous Oberon himself must have been, so delicately has 
the artist touched it off. There was another design 
representing a band of nymphs dancing in the sky, 
hand in hand in the twilight, and it was the most 



THE DUCAL PALACE. 149 

graceful thing ! — Their delicate little bare feet with 
every pretty turn a foot could have, their clothes and 
hair streaming in the breeze, and every attitude so 
airy. It was lovely! The Goethe frescoes were by 
another painter, and not so fine, but I prefer pictures 
to frescoes. Only one suite of the ducal rooms was 
frescoed. The others had superb pictures by the old 
masters, many of them originals. 

The Duke is an artist himself, and designs a great 
many pretty things. For instance, he designed the 
large candelabra which stood on each side of one of 
the doorways, — Cupid peeping through a wreath of 
thistles and nettles. He was kneeling on one knee, 
and pushing them aside with each hand. It was all 
done in gilt metal and made a very dainty conceit, 
beside being a good illustration of the pains of love I 
I think the Duke probably designed some of the pic- 
ture frames, for they were peculiarly rich and artistic ; 
for instance, the frames of the original cartoons of 
Leonardo da Vinci's Last Supper were entirely com- 
posed of the leaves and flowers of the calla lily. The 
leaves lapped one over the other, and here and there 
a lily was laid between. The flowers were done in a 
different coloured gilding from the leaves. They 
were very beautiful. The pictures were not all hung 
together, so as to confuse your eye, but here a gem 
and there a gem — and 0, I saw the most bewitching 
little statue there that ever I saw in my life ! The 
subject was "Little EedKiding Hood," and it stood in 
the corner of one of the great salons. It was about 
two feet high, and represented the most fascinating 



150 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

little girl you can imagine, clothed in the wolfs skin, 
which hung down behind and had formed the little 
hood. The child herself was quite indescribable — the 
daintiest little creature, with the most captivating ex- 
pression of innocence and roguishness. If she looked 
like that I should have followed the wolf's example 
and eaten her up I It was really a perfect little pearl 
of a statue. I would give anything to possess it. In 
short, I wish the Duke of Weimar were my intimate 
friend, for he must be a man worth knowing. Now, 
if I could only play like Liszt ! — I don't wonder Liszt 
spends so much of his time in Weimar. I am getting 
perfectly crazy to hear him, by the way, for everybody 
says there is nobody in the world like him, and 
that he is the only artist who combines everything. 
He does not play in public any more, but Weitzmann 
says that he is amiability itself, and that it would prob- 
ably not be difficult for me to get an opportunity to 
hear him in private. 

In the palace I also saw the little boudoir of the 
Duchess. It was all panelled in white satin, and the fur- 
niture was of the richest white brocaded silk. The Avin- 
dow frames were of malachite, and one looked out 
through the single great plate of glass on to the beau- 
tiful park, and the winding river spanned by a bridge 
which suggests immediately to your mind, "Walk over 
me into the Garden of Paradise, for I was made for 
your express benefit !" The park lies on each side of 
this little river Ilm, and Goethe's exquisite taste has 
given it more a look of nature than of art. It seems 
as if you were walking in a delicious meadow, the 



GOETHE'S SUMMER HOUSE. 151 

trees being sometimes grouped together, sometimes 
growing thickly along the water's edge. You go 
in and out of sunshine and shadow, and here and 
there are dusky little retreats, and, to borrow 
Goldsmith's elegant style, — "the winding walks 
assume a natural sylvage." Some distance up the 
river, on the side of a gentle hill, was a small house in 
the woods where Goethe used to live in summer. 
Here he slept sometimes, and farther up the hill 
was a summer house where he took his coffee after 
dinner. To the left of this summer house he had had 
made a long alley-way or vista of trees whose tops met 
overhead and formed a leafy ceiling. It was like a 
cloister, and here he could pace up and down and muse. 
It was a delightful idea. To the right of the summer • 
house was a small garden, and beyond that was a path 
which wound through the wood down to the path below. 
In one of the rocks there Goethe had had a little poem 
cut. I was sorry afterward that I hadn't copied it, it 
was so pretty. — But it was such a charming place to 
read and study, and it seemed to give me a better 
impression of him than anything else. 

I saw a piano in the Duke's palace iipon which 
Beethoven had played. It was a funny little instru- 
ment of about five octaves, but it was so wheezy with 
age that there wasn't much tone to be got out of it. 
After we had finished looking at the palace, we went 
over to see the ducal library. Here I saw a superb 
bust of Goethe as a young man. It was so handsome 
that it spurns description. He must have been a 
perfect Apollo. I also saw a likeness of him painted 



152 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

upon a cup by some great artist, for which he sat 
thirty-four times ! The old librarian, who had known 
Goethe, said that it was exactly like him, and the min- 
iature painting was so wonderful that when you looked 
at it with a magnifying glass it was only finer and 
more accurate instead of less so ! There was also a 
most noble bust of the composer Gliick. The face 
was all scarred with small-pox, so that the cast must 
must have been moulded from his features after death, 
but I never saw such a living, animated, likeness in 
marble. It looked as if it were going to speak to you. 
There was a funny toy there, nearly three hundred 
years old. It was a drummer boy, with a little baby 
strapped on his back. The librarian wound him up, 
and then he beat his drum lustily, rolled his eyes from 
side to side, and wagged his head, while the baby 
on his back hopped up and down. Whenever little 
children see it, it scares them, and they begin to cry. 
It had on a red flannel coat, and hasn't had a new one 
since it was made. — " Nearly three hundred years old, 
and never had a new coat," is worse than when C. 
P. bought himself a trunk, and went round the 
house saying, "Twenty-seven years old, and been in 
twenty-three states of the Union, and never had a 
new trunk before I" 

Goethe's house is not exhibited, which I think 
highly inexcusable in the Goethe family, but Schiller's 
is. So we saw that, and what a contrast it was to the 
ducal palace ! — You go to a small yellow house on one 
of the principal streets, enter a little hall by a little 
door, go up two flights of a little stair-case, and in the 



SCHILLER'S HOME. 153 



very low-ceilinged third story was Schiller's home — 
" home " I say, and the whole of it, so please take it in ! 
The first room you enter is a sort of ante-room where 
photographs are now sold. The next room was the 
parlour, and of late years it has been comfortably fur- 
nished by the ladies of Weimar in the usual cheap 
German taste. The third room was Schiller's study, 
with an infinitesimal fourth room, or large closet, 
opening from it, which was his sleeping apart- 
ment. The study is precisely as he left it, and 
nothing could be more bald and bare. No car- 
pet on the floor, the three windows slightly fes- 
tooned at the top with a single breadth of Turkey red, 
his own portrait and a few wretched prints on the walls 
— ^in short, such a sordid habitation for such a soaring 
nature as seemed almost incredible ! His writing table, 
with a globe, inkstand, and pens upon it, stands at one 
window, and his wife's tiny little piano with her guitar 
on top, is against the wall. There are two or three 
chairs, and a wash-stand with a minute washing appa- 
ratus. In one corner is the tiny unpainted wooden 
bedstead on which he died ; a bed not meant to stretch 
out in, but to lie, as Germans do, half reclining, and 
so low, narrow, plain and mean that I never saw any- 
thing like it. In it and hanging on the wall over it 
are wreaths which leading German actresses have 
brought there as votive offerings to their great national 
dramatist, their white satin ribbons yellowing by time. 
At the foot of the stair-case as you go out, you see the 
little vvalled-up garden at the back of the house where 
the poet loved to sit. 



154 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

After getting through with the abodes of the living, 
we yisited the ducal vault where Goethe and Schiller 
ai'e buried. It is the crypt of a sort of temple built 
in the old secluded cemetery in Weimar, and in it 
all the coffins are laid in rows on supporters. Goethe 
and Schiller lie apart from the others, side by side, 
near the foot of the stair-case leading down into 
the crypt. Their coffins, especially Schiller's, are cov- 
ered with wreaths and bouquets brought by strangers 
and laid there. Schiller's had on it a garland of silver 
leaves presented by the women of Hamburg, and an- 
other of leaves of green gauze or crape, on CA^ery one 
of which was worked in gold thread the name of one 
of his plays. A great actress had made it herself as 
her tribute to his genius. From all I observe, I should 
judge that the German people love Schiller much more 
than they do Goethe. The dukes and duchesses lie 
farther back in the vault in their red velvet coffins, 
quite unnoticed. So much better is genius than rank ! 
Hummel is buried also in the cemetery, which is the 
most beautiful I ever saw — not stiff and " arranged " 
like ours, but so natural ! with over-grown foot-paths, 
and with much fewer and simpler grave-stones and 
monuments, and many more vines and flowers and 
roses creeping over the graves. We went to Hummel's 
grave, and had I been Goethe and Schiller I should 
much rather have been buried out of doors like him, 
amid this sweet half-Avild, half -gentle nature, than in 
that dismal vault. 

Speaking of Hummel reminds me of Tausig's death. 
Was it not terrible that he should have died so young I 



TAUSIG'S PLAYING. 155 

Such an enormous artist as he was ! I cannot get 
reconciled to it at all, and he played only twice in 
Berlin last winter. 

He was a strange little soul — a perfect misanthrope. 
Nobody knew him intimately. He lived all the last 
part of his life in the strictest retirement, a prey to 
deep melancholy. He was taken ill at Leipsic, whither 
he had gone to meet Liszt. Until the ninth day they 
had hopes of his recovery, but in the night he had a 
relapse, and died the tenth day, very easily at the last. 
His remains were brought to Berlin and he was buried 
here. Everything was done to save him, and he had. 
the most celebrated physicians, but it was useless. So 
my last hope of lessons from him again is at an end, 
you see ! I never expect to hear such piano-playing 
again. It was as impossible for him to strike one false 
note as it is for other people to strike right ones. He 
was absolutely infallible. The papers all tell a story 
about his playing a piece one time before his friends, 
from the notes. The music fell upon the keys, but 
Tausig didn't allow himself to be at all disturbed, and 
went on playing through the paper, his fingers piercing 
it and grasping the proper chords, until some one 
rushed to his aid and set the notes up again. Oh, he was 
a wonder, and it is a tragic loss to Art that he is dead. 
He was such a true artist, his standard was so immeas- 
urably high, and he had such a proud contempt for 
anything approaching clap-trap, or what he called 
SpectaJcel. I have seen him execute the most gigantic 
difficulties without permitting himself a*sign of effort 
beyond an almost imperceptible compression of one 



156 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

corner of his mouth. — And then his touch ! Never 
shall I forget it ! — that rush of silver over the keys. 
However, he entirely overstrained himself, and his 
whole nervous system was completely shattered long 
before his illness. He said last winter that the very 
idea of playing in public was unbearable to him, and 
after he had announced in the papers that he would 
give four concerts, he recalled the announcement on the 
plea of ill health. Then he thought he would go to 
Italy and sjoend the winter. But when he got as far 
as Naples, he said to himself, ^' N'ein, hier hleibst du 
nicht (No, you won't stay here) ;" and back he came 
to Berlin. He doesn't seem to have known what he 
wanted, himself ; his was an uneasy, tormented, 
capricious spirit, at enmity with the world. Perhaps 
his marriage had something to do with it. His wife 
was a beautiful artist, too, and they thought the world 
of each other, yet they couldn't live together. But 
Tausig's whole life was a mystery, and his reserve was 
so complete that nobody could pierce it. If I had only 
been at the point in music two years ago that I am 
now, I could have gone at once into his class. His 
scholars were most of them artists already, or had got 
to that point where they liad pretty well mastered the 
technique. A number of them came out last winter, 
and the little Timanoff played duets with Rubinstein 
for two pianos, at St. Petersburg. 

Since my return I have gone into the first class in 
Kullak's conservatory, instead of taking private lessons 
of him. I think it will be of use to me to hear his 
best pupils play. 



CHAPTER XII. 

Dinner-Party and Reception at Mr. Bancroft's. Auction at 

Tausig's Hou3e. A German Ohristmasi 

The Joachims. 

Berlin, October 2, 1871. 

This week'T have been to a dinner-party at the Ban- 
croft's. There were several eminent Germans there, 
and I was taken out by B5tticher, the Herr who has 
arranged all the casts in the Museum, and who knows 
everything about Art. He couldn't speak a word of 
English, so we Germaned it. We talked about Sap- 
pho all through dinner, and he gave me several details 
about that young woman which I did not know before. 
As 0. used to say, we had one of those dinners " such 
as you read about in the Arabian Nights," topping off 
with a glass of my favourite Tokay, which, I regret to 
say, I so prolonged the pleasure of drinking, that 
finally the signal was given to adjourn to the drawing- 
room, and I was obliged to leave my glass standing 
half full, to be swallowed by the waiter as soon as my 
back was turned. Sad, but true ! 

On another evening, at a Bancroft reception, I 
talked with a Miss R., who was charming. She is 
twenty-two or three, I should think, very pretty 
and extremely elegant, and with the most deli- 
cious way of speaking you can imagine. Such soft- 
ness of manner and such a delightfully pitched voice, 

(157) 



158 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

and then along with this perfect repose, such a 
vivid way of describing things ! I was immensely 
taken with her, and was delighted to have her for a 
countrywoman. She gave me a wonderful account 
of the Island of Java. I had a lot of questions to ask 
her, for you remember how persistently I read that 
book by a naturalist (Wallace) who went to Java in 
search of the Bird of Paradise. Miss R. is so ex- 
tremely intelligent, and yet so unassuming ; and then 
this high-bred manner. — I did not have time to hear 
her talk half e.iough, and, unfortunately, her party 
went away the next day. 

The other day was an auction in poor little Tausig's 
house, and all his furniture was sold. It was very 
handsome, all of solid oak, beautifully carved. He 
had spent five thousand thalers on it. His wardrobe 
was sold, too, and I don't know how many pairs of his 
little boots and shoes were there, his patent leather 
concert boots among others. His little velvet coat 
that he used to wear went with the rest. I saw it 
lying on a chair. I came home quite ill, and was 
laid up two days. It was the fatigue, I suppose, and 
miserable reflections. I wanted to buy a picture, but 
they were all sold in a lot. He had excellent ones of 
all the great composers, down to Liszt and Wagner, 
hanging over 'his piano in the room where he always 
played. Kullak deplores Tausig's death very deeply. 
He had visited him in Leipsic two days before he was 
taken ill, and said no one would have dreamed that 
Tausig was going to die, he looked so well. Kullak 
said Tausig was one of the three or four great special 



AMERICAN COMFORT. 159 

pianists. " Who will interpret to us so again ?" said 
he ; and I echoed, sadly enough, " Who, indeed ?" 

Kullak, by the way, is a wonderfully ^^^^5Ae^ teacher. 
He is a great friend of Liszt's, and Liszt has taught 
him a good many things. I doubt, however, how M. 
will fare with him, if she is only going to be here a 
year. My experience is that it takes fully a year to 
get started under a first class master. These great 
teachers won't take a pupil raw from America, still 
less trouble themselves with a scholar who cannot im- 
mediately comprehend. I have written her to-day a 
three-sheet letter in which I have set forth the disad- 
vantages of Germany in a sufficiently forcible manner 
to prevent her feeling disappointed if she still insists 
upon the journey. I have come to the conclusion that 
I am no criterion as to other people's impressions. 
Unless people have an enthusiasm for art I don't see 
the least use in their coming abroad. If they cannot 
appreciate the culture of Europe, they are much better 
off in America. There is no doubt whatever that as to 
the comfort of every -day life, we are a long way ahead 
of every nation, unless perhaps the English, whom, 
however, I have not seen. 



Berlin, December 25, 1871. 
To-day is Christmas-day, and I have thought much 
of you all at home, and have wondered if you've been 
having an apathetic time as usual. I think we often 
spend Christmas in a most shocking fashion in Amer- 
ica, and I mean to revolutionize all that when I get 



160 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

back. So long a time in Germany has taught me bet- 
ter. Here it is a season of universal joy, and every- 
body enters into it. Last night we had a Christmas 
tree at the S.'s, as we always do. We went there at 
half past six, and it was the prettiest thing to see in 
every liouse, nearly, a tree just lighted, or in process 
of being so. As a separate family lives on each floor, 
often in one house would be three trees, one above the 
other, in the front rooms. The curtains are always 
drawn up, to give the passers-by the benefit of it. They 
don't make a fearful undertaking of having a Christ- 
mas tree here, as we do in America, and so they are 
attainable by everybody. The tree is small, to begin 
with, and nothing is put on it except the tapers and 
bonbons. It is fixed on a small stand in the centre of 
a large square table covered with a white cloth, and 
each person's presents are arranged in a separate pile 
around it. The tree is only lighted for the sake of 
beauty, and for the air of festivity it throws over the 
thing. — After a crisp walk in the moonlight (which 
I performed in the style of " Johnny-look-up-in-the 
air," for I was engaged in staring into house-windows, 
so far as it was practicable), we sat down to enjoy a 
oup of tea and a piece of cake. I had just begun my 
second cup, when. Presto ! the parlour doors flew open, 
and there stood the little green tree, blossoming out 
into lights, and throwing its gleams over the well-laden 
table. There was a general scramble and a search 
for one's own pile, succeeded by deep silence and sus- 
pense while we opened the papers. Such a hand shak- 
ing and embracing and thanking as followed ! conclud- 



FRAU JOACHIM. 101 



iiig with the satisfactory conviction that we each had 
" just what we wanted." Germans do not despise the 
utilitarian in their Christmas gifts, as we do, but, be- 
tween these and their birthday offerings, expect to be 
set up for the rest of the year in the necessaries of life 
as well as in its superfluities. Presents of stockings, 
under-clothes, dresses, handkerchiefs, soaps — nothing 
comes amiss. And every one must give to every one 
else. That is law. 

I have just heard a young artist from Vienna who 
made a great impression on me. His name is Ignaz 
Briihl. He is quite exceptional, and has not only a 
brilliant technique, but also a peculiar and beautiful 
conception. — But the best concert I have heard this 
season was one given by Clara Schumann a week ago 
last Monday. She was assisted by Joachim and his 
wife^ and that galaxy is indeed unequalled. Frau 
Joachim sings deliciously. Not that her voice is so 
remarkable. You hear such voices all the time. But 
she manages it consummately, and sings German songs 
as no one but a German could sing them. Indeed I 
never heard any woman approach her in unobtrusive 
yet perfect art. She does not take you by storm, and 
when I first came here I did not think much of her, 
but every time I hear her I am struck with how exqui- 
site it is. Every word takes on a meaning, and on this 
account I think you have to understand the language 
before you can realize the beauty of it. One of her 
songs was Schumann's " Spring Song," with that rapid 
agitato accompaniment, you know. — She came out and 
started off in it with a half breath and a tremor just 
11 



l62 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



like a bird fluttering up out of its nest, and then went 
up on a portamento with such abandon ! — like the bird 
soaring off in its flight. I never sha*ll forget that 
effect ! Of course it carried you completely away. 
Beside singing so admirably she is a beauty — a 
sort of baby beauty — and when she comes out in a 
pale pink silk, contrasting with her dark hair and 
revealing her imperial neck and arms, she is ravishing. 
I've been told she wasn't anything remarkable when 
Joachim married her. No doubt dwelling with such 
a genius has developed her. They say that Joachim 
has had such a happy life that he wants to live for- 
ever ! He certainly does overtop everything. On this 
occasion he played Beethoven's great Kreutzer Sonata 
for violin and piano, with Clara Schumann, and I 
thought it the most Tnagnificent performance I ever 
heard 1 I perfectly adore Joachim, and consider him 
the wonder of the age. It is simple ecstasy to listen 
to him. 



CHAPTER XIII. 

Vi8it to Dresden. The Wiecks. Von Biilow. A Child Prod- 
igy. Grantzow, the Dancer. 

Berlin, February 10, 1872. 
A week ago last Monday I went to Dresden with 
J. L. to visit B. H. We got there at about five 
in the afternoon, and were met at the station by 
B.'s maid, who conducted us straightway to their 
house in Christian Strasse. B. and Mrs. H. received 
us with the greatest cordiality, and we had a splen- 
did time. I came home only the day before yes- 
terday, and J. is still there. The H.'s have a charming 
lodging, and Mrs. H. is a capital housekeeper. The 
cuisine was excellent, and you can imagine how I 
enjoyed an American breakfast once more, after noth- 
ing but "rolls and coffee" for two years. B. did 
everything in her power to amuse us, and she is the 
soul of amiability. She kept inviting people to meet 
us, and had several tea-parties, and when we had no 
company she took us to the theatre or the opera. She 
invited Marie "Wieck (the sister of Clara Schumann) 
to tea one night. I was very glad to meet her, for she 
is an exquisite artist herself, and plays in Clara Schu- 
mann's style, though her conception is not so remark- 
able. Her touch is perfect. At B.'s request she 
tried to play for us, but the action of B.'s piano 
did not suit her, and she presently got up, saying that 

(163) 



164 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

she could do nothing on that instrument, but that 
if we would come to her, she would play for us with 
pleasure. 

I was in high glee at that proposal, for I was very 
anxious to see the famous Wieck, the trainer of so 
many generations of musicians. Fraulein Wieck 
appointed Saturday evening, and we accordingly went. 
B. had instructed us how to act, for the old man is 
quite a character, and has to be dealt with after his own 
fashion. She said we must walk in (having first laid off 
our things) as if we had been members of the family 
all our lives, and say, " Good-evening, Papa Wieck," — 
(everybody calls him Papa). Then we were to seat our- 
selves, and if we had some knitting or sewing with us 
it would be well. At any rate we must have the appar- 
ent intention of spending several hours, for nothing 
prCTv'okes him so as to have people come in simply to 
call. "What I" he will say, " do you expect to know a 
celebrated man like me in half an hour?" then (very 
sarcastically), "perhaps you want my autograph !" He 
hates to give his autograph. 

Well, we went through the prescribed programme. 
We were ushered into a large room, much longer than 
it was broad. At either end stood a grand piano. 
Otherwise the room was furnished with the greatest 
simplicity. My impression is that the floor was a plain 
yellow painted one, with a rug or two here and there. 
A few portraits and bas-reliefs hung upon the walls. 
The pianos were of course fine. Frau Wieck and 
" Papa " received us graciously. We began by taking 
tea, but soon the old man became impatient, and 



CLARA. SCHUMANN'S SISTER. 165 

said, "Come! the ladies wish to perform (vortragen) 
something before me, and if we don't begin we shan't 
accomplish anything." He lives entirely in music, 
and has a class of girls whom he instructs every even- 
ing for nothing. Five of these young girls were there. 
He is very deaf, but strange to say, he is as 
sensitive as ever to every musical sound, and the 
same is the case with Clara Schumann. Fraulein 
Wieck then opened the ball. She is about forty, I 
should think, and a stout, phlegmatic-looking woman. 
However, she played superbly, and her touch is one of 
the most delicious possible. After hearing her, one is 
not surprised that the Wiecks think nobody can teach 
touch but themselves. She began with a nocturne by 
Chopin, in F major. I forgot to say that the old Herr 
sits in his chair with the air of being on a throne, 
and announces beforehand each piece that is to be 
played, following it with some comment : e. g., "This 
nocturne I allowed my daughter Clara to play in Berlin 
forty years ago, and afterward the ]3rincipal newspaper 
in criticising her performance, remarked : ' This j'oung 
girl seems to have much talent ; it is only a pity that 
she is in the hands of a father whose head seems 
stuck full of queer new-fangled notions/ — so new was 
Chopin to the public at that time." That is the way 
he goes on. 

After Fraulein Wieck had finished the nocturne, I 
asked for something by Bach, which I'm told she plays 
remarkably. She said that at the moment she had 
nothing in practice by Bach, but she would play me a 
gigue by a composer of Bach's time, — Haesler, I think 



166 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

she said^ but cannot remember, as it was a name 
entirely unknown to me. It was A^ery brilliant, and 
she executed it beautifully. Afterward she played the 
last movement of Beethoven's Sonata in E flat major, 
but I wasn't particularly struck with her conception 
of that. Then we had a pause, and she urged me to 
play. I refused, for as I had been in Dresden a week 
and had not practiced, I did not wish to sit down and 
not do myself justice. My hand is so stiff, that as 
Tausig said of himself (though of him I can hardly 
believe it), "When I haven't practiced for fourteen days 
I can't do anything." The old Herr then said, " Now 
we'll have something else ;" and got up and went to 
the piano, and called the young girls. He made three 
of them sing, one after the other, and they sang very 
charmingly indeed. One of them he made improvise 
a cadenza, and a second sang the alto to it without 
accompaniment. He was very proud of that. He exer- 
cises his pupils in all sorts of ways, trains them to sing 
any given tone, and " to skip up and down the ladder," 
as they call the scale. 

After the master had finished with the singing, 
Fraulein Wieck played three more pieces, one of which 
was an exquisite arrangement by Liszt of that song by 
Schumann, "Du meine SfeleP She ended with a 
gavotte by Gliick, or as Papa Wieck would say, " This 
is a gavotte from one of Gllick's operas, arranged by 
Brahms for the piano. To the superficial observer the 
second movement will appear very easy, but in my 
opinion it is a very hard task to hit it exactly." I hap- 
pened to know just how the thing ought to be played, 



AN ORDEAL. 167 



for I liaxi heard it three times from Clara Schumann 
herself. Fraulein Wieck didn't please me at all in it, 
for she took the second movement twice as quickly as 
the first. "Your sister plays the second movement 
much slower/' said I. "Sof said she, "I've never 
heard it from her." She then asked, " So slow?" play- 
ing it slower. "Still slower?" said she, beginning a 
third time, at my continual disapproval. " Streng im 
Tempo (in strict time)", said I, nodding my head 
oracularly. " Vdterchen.^^ called she to the old Herr, 
" Miss Fay says that Clara plays the second movement 
so slow," showing him. I don't know whether this 
correction made an impression, but he was then deter- 
mined that I should play, and on my continuedjref usal 
he finally said that he found it very strange that a young 
lady who had studied more than two years in Tausig's 
and Kullak's conservatories shouldn't have one piece 
that she could play before people." This little fling 
provoked me, so up I jumped, and saying to my- 
self, "Kopf in die Hohe^ Brust heraus, — vor warts!" 
(one of the military orders here), I marched to the piano 
and played the fugue at the end of Beethoven's A flat 
Sonata, Op. 110. They all sat round the room as still 
as so many statues while I played, and you cannot 
imagine how dreadfully nervous I was. I thought 
fifty times 1 would have to stop, for, like all fugues, it 
is such a piece that if you once get out you never can 
get in again, and Billow himself got mixed up on the 
last part of it the other night in his concert. But 
I got well through, notwithstanding, and the old 
master was good enough to commend me warmly. 



168 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

He told me I must have studied a great deal, and 
asked me if I hadn't played a great many Etuden. I 
informed him in polite German " He'd better believe 
I had !" 

I should like to study with the Wiecks in my vaca- 
tion next summer if they would take me. Perhaps I 
may. They are considered somewhat old-fashioned 
in their style, and I shouldn't wish to exchange Kul- 
lak for them, but they are such veterans that one 
could not help getting many valuable ideas from 
them. Papa Wieck used to be Billow's master before 
he went to Liszt. 

Did I tell you how carried away with Billow I was? 
He is magnificent, and just between Rubinstein and 
Tausig. I am going to hear him again on Sat- 
urday, and then I'll write you my full opinion about 
him. He is famous for his playing of Beethoven, and 
I wish you could have heard the Moonlight Sonata 
from him. One thing he does which is entirely pecu- 
liar to himself. He runs all the movements of a so- 
nata together, instead of pausing between. It pleased 
me very much, as it gives a unity of effect, and seems 
to make each movement beget the succeeding one. 



Beklin, Maij 30, 1872. 
T wish L. were here studying piano with Kullak's 
son. He has one little fairy of a scholar ten years old. 
Her name is Adele aus der Ohe — (isn't that an old 
knightly name?) — audit is the most astonishing thing 
to hear that child play ! I heard her play a concerto 



" ART IS LONG." 169 



of Beethoven's the other day with orchestral accom- 
paniment and a great cadenza by Moscheles, abso- 
lutely perfectly. She never missed a note the whole 
way through. I suppose she will become, like Mehlig, 
a great artist. But perhaps, like her, she won't have 
a great conception, but will do everything mechani- 
cally. One never can tell how these child-prodigies 
will turn out. — ^Please don't form any exalted ideas of 
my playing ! I'm a pretty stupid girl, and go forward 
slowly. I never expect to play as Miss Mehlig does. 
If I can ever get up to Topp, I shall be satisfied. You 
wouldn't believe how long it takes to get to be a vir- 
tuoso unless you tried it. Mehlig, you know, studied 
steadily for ten years, under the hest of teaching all 
the time, and she had probably more talent to start 
with than I have. Miss V. and Mr. G. have been 
here five years studying steadily, and they are no 
farther than I am now. Not so far. It makes all the 
difference in the world what kind of hand and wrist a 
person has. Mine, you know, were pretty stiff, and 
then it is a great disadvantage to begin studying after 
one is grown up. One ought to be learning while the 
hand is forming. 

I am just now learning that A minor concerto of 
Schumann's that Topp played at the Handel and 
Haydn Festival in Boston. The cadenza is tough, I 
can tell you. That is the worst of these concertos. 
There is always a grand cadenza where you must 
play all alone and " make a splurge." I don't know 
how it feels to be left all at once without any support 
from the orchestra. It is bad enough when Kullak 



170 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

lies back in his chair and ceases accompanying me. 
He plays with me on two pianos, and I get so excited 
that my wrists tremble. He is a magnificent pianist, 
and his technique is perfect. There's nothing he 
can't do. Like all artists, he is as capricious and ex- 
asperating as he can be, and, as the Germans say, he 
is " ein Mai im Himmel und (fas ndchste Mai im Kel- 
ler (one time in heaven and the next time in the cel- 
lar) !" He has a deep rooted prejudice against Amer- 
icans, and never loses an opportunity to make a 
mean remark about them, and though he has some 
remarkably gifted ones among his scholars, he always 
insists upon it that the Americans have no real talent. 
As far as I know anything about his conservatorium 
just now, his most talented scholars are Americans. 
There is a young fellow named Sherwood, who is only 
seventeen years old, and he not only plays splendidly 
but composes beautifully, also. In my own class Miss 
B. and I are far ahead of all the others. KuUak will 
praise us very enthusiastically, and then when some 
one plays particularly badly in the class he will say to 
them, " Why, Fraulein, you play exactly as if you 
came from America." It makes Miss B. and me so 
indio^nant that we don't know what to do. Of course we 
can't say anything, for he addresses this remark in a 
lofty way to the whole class. Miss V. couldn't 
bear Kullak, and the other day, when she and Mr. G. 
were taking leave of him to go to America, she let him 
see it. He said to her, " And when shall I see you 
again?" "iVever," exclaimed she ! We have only one 
way of revenging ourselves, and that is when lie gives 



THE BALLET OF " ESMERALDA." 171 

us the choice of takmg one of his compositions or a 
piece by some one else, always to take the other per- 
son's. For instance, he said to me, " Fraulein, you 
can take Schumann's concerto or my concerto." I 
immediately got Schumann's. 

The other night I went to see a great ballet-dancer. 
Her name is Fraulein G-rantzow, and she is the court 
dancer at St. Petersburg, where I've heard that the 
ballet surpasses everything of the kind in the world. 
This danseuse is a wonder, and they say there has never 
been such dancing since the days of Fanny Ellsler. 
She has the figure of a Venus, and the most expressive 
face imaginable. When she dances, it is not only 
dancing, but a complete representation of character, 
for she plays a role by her motions just the same as 
if she were an actress. I have seen many a ballet, but 
I never conceived what an art dancing is before. I 
saw her in " Esmeralda," a ballet which is arranged 
from Victor Hugo's romance and modified for the 
stage. Fraulein Grantzow took the part of Esmer- 
alda. In the first act a man is condemned to death, 
but is pardoned on condition that one of the women 
present will promise to marry him. The women, rep- 
resented by about fifty ballet dancers, come up one 
after the other, contemplate the poor victim, pirouette 
round him, and reject him in turn with a gesture of 
contempt. At last Esmeralda (a gypsy) comes danc- 
ing along, asks what is the matter, and on being told, 
has compassion on the poor wretch, and promises to 
marry him in order to save him from his fate. 

When the time came for Grrantzow to appear, the 



172 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

crowd of dancers suddenly divided, and she bounded 
out from the back of the stage. Such an appari- 
tion as she was ! In the first place her toilettes sur- 
passed everything, and she appeared in a fresh dress 
in every act. In this first one she had on a most daz- 
zling shade of green gauze for her skirt. From her 
waist fell a golden net-work, like a cestus, with littb 
golden tassels all round. She wore a little scarlet 
satin jacket all fringed with gold coins, and a broad 
golden belt, pointed in front, clasped her waist. On 
her head was a tiny scarlet cap, also fringed with coins, 
and she had some golden bangles round her neck. In 
her hand was a tambourine from which depended four 
knots of coloured ribbons with long ends. Shaking 
her tambourine high in the air, out she sprang like a 
panther, made one magnificent circuit all round the 
stage, and after executing an immensely difficult pas 
with perfect ease, she suddenly posed to the audience 
in the most ravishing and impossible attitude and with 
the most captivating grace conceivable. Anything like 
her elayi, her aplomb, I never saw. Such a daring crea- 
ture ! Well, I cannot tell you all the things she did. 
She is a perfect Terpsichorean genius. All through 
the first act she danced very slowly, merely to show 
her wonderful grace, and the beauty and originality of 
her positions. She had a way of folding her arms over 
her breast and dancing with a dreamy step that was 
quite different from anybody else, and it produced an 
entrancing eif ect. Through the second and third acts 
she made a regular crescendo, just to display her tech- 
nique and show what she could do. All the other 



AN IDEAL DANSEUSE. 175 

dancers seemed like blocks of wood in comparison with 
her. — FrSulein Grantzow is said to be between thirty- 
five and thirty-eight years old. As the papers said, 
her art shows the perfection that only maturity can 
give. The men are all crazy over her, as you may im- 
agine, and she was showered with bouquets as large as 
the top of a barrel. The play of her features was as 
extraordinary as the play of her muscles. Her whole 
being seemed to be the soul of motion. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

A Rising Organist. Kullak, Von Btilow's Playing. 

A Princely Funeral, Wilhelmj's Concert. 

A Court Beauty. 

Berlin, July 1, 1873. 
Since I have been here X. has gradually devel- 
oped into a great organ player, and I fancy he is now 
one of the first organ virtuosi in the world. His 
musical activity is immense, and I don't doubt he will 
be one of the great musical authorities here by the 
time he is a few years older. He is a good-hearted 
little demon, the incarnation of German dirt and 
good humour, and he pretends to be desperately de- 
voted to me. Last Sunday he was at M.'s and went 
home with us afterward. Generally I go in front 
with A. or Herr J. and let X. give his arm to M., 
but this time I accorded him the honour of taking 
it myself. He is about a foot shorter than I am, but 
he trotted along by my side in a state of high satisf ac^ 
tion, and asked me what he should play at this 
concert. I told him he might play the G Minor 
Prelude and Fugue, as I had just taken it, "hut,^^ said 
I, " mind you play it well, for I shall study it very 
hard during the next fortnight, and I shall know if 
you strike one false note. I'll allow you six faults, 
but if you make one more I'll beat you." This 
amused him highly, but he said, " It is a very com- 

(174) 



AN ORGAN VIRTUOSO. 175 

plicated fugue, and it isu't so easy to play it perfectly, 
with all the pedal passages. What will you do for me 
if I come off without making one fault?" I told him 
there was plenty of time to think about that, and I 
didn't belieye he could. I have no doubt that he will 
play it magnificently, but I love to plague him. I wish 
that his department were secular rather than church 
music, for if he were only a conductor of an orchestra, 
or something of that sort, he could give me many a lift. 
He doesn't dare play the piano anymore since I played 
to him a few times. He used nearly to kill me with his 
extemporizations, for he has no memory, and so he 
always had to extemporize. I generally went off into 
a secret convulsion of laughter when he went bang ! 
bang ! Donner and Blitz ! — splaying all over the key- 
board. It was the funniest thing I ever heard, and when 
I heard him burst forth in such grand style on the or- 
gan, I was perfectly amazed, and couldn't reconcile 
it with his piano playing at all. He is a great reader, 
of course, and can transpose at sight, and all that sort 
of thing. I've known him to play accompaniments at 
sight in a great concert in the Dom and transpose 
them at the same time ! 

July 6. — You ask me why I gave up going to the 
Wiecks in Dresden this summer. — Because they make 
everybody begin at the very beginning of their system 
and go through it before they give them a piece, and 
at my stage of progress that would be losing time. 
They think nobody can teach touch but themselves, 
but Kullak is a much greater musician, and I should 
not be willing to exchange him for Fraulein Wieck, 



176 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

who does not begin to equal him in reputation. Much 
as Kullak enrages me, I have to admit that he is a 
great master, and that he is thoroughly capable of 
developing artistic talent to the utmost. He makes 
Miss B. so provoked that she had very strong thoughts 
of going to Stuttgardt. The Stuttgardt conserva- 
torium is so crowded that it is very difficult to get ad- 
mission. Lebert (Mehlig's master,) sent word on her 
writing to enquire, that he would only take her on con- 
dition that she brought him a letter from Kullak au- 
thorizing her leaving him, as Kullak was a personal 
friend of his own, and so great an artist, that only the 
most important reasons could justify her giving up 
his instructions ! Of course that put the stopper on any 
such movement. 

Fve always forgotten to describe Billow's playing to 
you, and it is now so long since I heard him that my 
impressions of it are not so vivid. He has the most 
forcible style I ever heard, and phrases wonderfully. 
It is like looking through a stereoscope to hear him. 
All the points of a piece seem to start out vividly be- 
fore you. He makes me think of Gottschalk a little, 
for he is full of his airs. His expression is proud and 
supercilious to the last degree, and he looks all round 
at his audience when he is playing. He always has 
two grand pianos on the stage, one facing one way, 
and one the other, and he plays alternately on both. 
His face seems to say to his audience, " You're all cats 
and dogs, and I don't care what you think of my play- 
ing." Sometimes a look of infinite humour comes over 
it, when he is playing a rondo or anything gay. It is 



A PRINCELY FUNERAL. 177 

very funny. He has remarkable magnetic power, and 
you feel that you are under the sway of a tremendous 
will. Many persons find fault with his playing, because 
they say it is pure intellect (der reine Ver stand) but 
I think he has too much passion to be called purely 
intellectual. Still, it is always passion controlled. Beet- 
hoyen has been the grand study of his life, and he 
playes his sonatas as no one else does. 

If he goes to America next winter, you miLSt hear 
him thoroughly, cot^te que co4te. So I advise you to 
be saving up your pennies, and be sure to get a place 
near the piano so that you can see his face, for it is a 
study. I always sit in the second or third row here. 



Beklin, OctoUr 27, 1872. 
This week has been quite an eventful one. It began 
on Monday with the funeral of Prince Albrecht, the 
youngest brother of the Emperor, and it was a very 
imposing spectacle. I was in hopes that Mr. B. would 
send me a card of admission to the Dom, where the serv- 
ices were? to be held, but as he didn't, I was obliged to 
content myself with a sight of the procession and gen- 
eral arrangement outside. I took my stand on a wagon 
with H., and we got an excellent view. There was a 
roadway built of wood from the royal Castle to the Dom, 
carpeted with black, over which the procession was to 
pass. We waited about an hour before it came along, 
but we were pretty well amused by the gorgeous equi- 
pages and liveries of the different diplomatic corps 
which dashed past. 
13 



178 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

We were on the opposite side of the canal which 
separated us from the square in front of the Dom. 
On the right of the Dom is the Castle, and the Museum 
is on the left. All this square was surrounded by 
military, for as Prince Albrecht was a Field-Marshal, 
the funeral had a military character. They were beau- 
tifully arranged, the cavalry on one side and the 
infantry on the other, and the different uniforms were 
contrasted with each other so as to make the best 
effects in colour. Both horses and men stood as if 
they were carved out of marble, with the greatest pre- 
cision of position. A little before eleven the royal 
carriages rolled past from tlie j^alace to the" Castle, 
with their occupants. Presently the bells began to toll, 
and exactly at eleven the procession started. The Gardes 
du Corps, which is the Crown Prince's regiment, pre- 
ceded the coffin, dressed in white and silver uniforms, 
with glittering brass helmets surmounted by silver 
eagles. The coffin itself was borne on a catafalque, 
and drawn by eight horses covered with black velvet 
trappings. It was yellow, and was surmounted by a 
crown of gold. On it was laid the Prince's sword, hel- 
met, etc., and some flowers. I was too far away to 
distinguish the personages that followed. Of course 
the Emperor was nearest, and all were on foot. Be- 
hind the coffin the Prince's favorite horse was led, sad- 
dled and bridled. All the servants of his household 
walked together in silver liveries and with large tri- 
angular hats with long bands of crape hanging down 
behind. The band played a chorale, "Jesus, my Kef- 
uge," and the bells kept tolling all the while. At the 



A "CHARMEUSE." 179 

door of the Dom, the procession was received by the 
clergy officiating. The coffin was so heavy that it 
was rolled down a platform of boards put up for the 
purpose. Then it was lifted by sixteen bearers, the 
glittering cortege closed round it, and they all swept 
it at the open portal. 

We waited until the end of the service, as it was a 
short one, in order to hear the eight rounds of firing 
by the artillery. It was interesting to see how exactly 
they all fired the instant the signal was given. First the 
musketry on one side, and then the musketry on the 
other, in answer to it. The officers galloped and cur- 
veted about on their fiery steeds, and finally, the can- 
non went boom — boom. The sharp crack of the rifles 
made you start, but the sullen roar of the cannon 
made you shudder. It gave you some idea of a battle. 

Tuesday night I went to a concert given by a new 
star in the musical world, a young violinist named Wil- 
helmj. He is only twenty-six years old, and is already 
said to be one of the greatest virtuosi living, perhaps 
the greatest of the romantic school, for Joachim 
belongs to the severe classic. All the artists and 
critics and many of the aristocracy turned out to 
hear him. It was his first appearance in Berlin, and 
as I looked round the audience and picked out one 
great musician after another, I fairly trembled for 
him. Joachim and de Ahna were both present, among 
others, and my adorable Baroness von S. swept in late, 
looking more exquisite than ever in black lace over 
black silk, with jet ornaments, and her lovely hair 
curled and done up high on her aristocratic little head. 



180 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

She was all in mourning for the Prince, even to a 
black lace fan with which she occasionally shaded her 
eyes, so that her peach-bloomy cheek was just to be 
discerned through it. She is a charming pianist her- 
self, I've heard, and is a great patroness of music and 
musicians, especially of the " music of the future," 
and its creators. I see her at all the concerts. When 
her face is in perfect repose she has the most charming 
expression and a sort of celestial look in her deep- 
set blue eyes. She is what the French call spirituelle, 
and the Germans geistreich, but we've no word in our 
language that just describes her. 

Well, as I was saying, my head got quite dizzy with 
thinking what a trial it was to play before such an audi- 
ence, but Wilhelmj seemed to differ from me, for he 
came confidently down the steps with the dignified 
self-poise of an artist who is master of his instrument, 
and who knows what he can do. He is extremely 
handsome, with regular features, massive overhanging 
forehead, and with an expression of power and self -con- 
tainment. He looked a perfect picture as he stood there 
so quietly and played. He hadn't gone far before he 
made a brilliant cadenza that took down the house, and 
there was a general burst of applause. His tone (which 
is the grand thing in violin-playing) was magnificent, 
and his technique masterly. He didn't play with that 
tenderness of feeling and wonderful variety of expression 
that Joachim does, but it was as if he didn't care to 
affect people in that way. It made me think of Tau- 
sig on the piano. He played with the greatest in- 
tensity and aplomb, and the strings seemed aotuaUt to 



WILHELMJ, 181 



seethe. People were taken by storm. The second 
piece was a concerto by Eaff. Wilhelmj was in the 
midst of the Andante, and was sawing our hearts with 
every saw of his bow, when suddenly a string snapped 
under the strain of his passionate fingers. He instantly 
ceased playing, and retired up the steps to the back of 
the stage to put on another string. Unfortunately he had 
not brought along an extra one in his pocket, and had 
to borrow one from one of the orchestra. Weitzmann, 
who in his youth was himself an eminent concert violin- 
ist, was amazed at Wilhelmj's temerity. "What rash- 
ness" exclaimed he, " and the G- string, too !" (one of 
the most important). After a pause Wilhelmj came 
down and began again, but the string was so out of tune 
that he retired a second time. He must have been furi- 
ous inwardly, one would think, and at his Berlin debut, 
too ! but he came down the third time with the utmost 
imperturbability, and got through the concerto. The 
whole effect of the concert was spoiled, though, and he 
had also to change the solos he had intended playing, so 
as to avoid the G string as much as possible. Instead of 
the lovely Chopin Nocturne in D fiat (his own arrange- 
ment), he played an Aria by Bach. He did it so won- 
derfully that I was really startled. — I never shall forget 
the nuances he put into his trill. But at his second 
concert, where he did give the l^octurne, it was evident 
that the romantic is his great forte, and on a first 
appearance, and before his large and critical audience, 
he should have been heard in that genre.* 

* This letter, which was published in DwighVs Journal of Music^ is 
the one alluded to on p. 193. 



CHAPTER XV. 

The Boston Fire. Aggravations of Music Study. Kullak. 

Sherwood. Hoch Schule. Natalie Janotha. A 

Brilliant American. 

Berlin, November 24, 1872. 
All the papers over here have been ringing with the 
Boston fire, the horse pestilence, shipwrecks, explosions, 
etc., until I feel as if all America were going to the bad. 
What an awful calamity that fire is ! I can't take it in 
at all. All the Germans are wondering what our fire 
companies are made of that such conflagrations can take 
place. They say it would be an impossibility here, 
where the organization is so perfect. The men are 
trained to the work for years, and are on the spot in a 
twinkling, knowing just what to do. They are as fully 
convinced of their super-excellence in the Fire Depart- 
ment as in every other, and nothing can make them 
believe that if two or three of their little fire-engines had 
been there, and worked by their firemen, the Chicago 
and Boston fires could not have been put out ! You 
know their machines are pumped by hand, too, instead 
of by steam, as ours are, which makes the assumption 
all the more ludicrous. It reminds me of a German 
party I was at once, where our war was the subject of 
conversation. "Oh, you don't know anything about 
fighting over there," said one gentleman, nodding at me 
patronizingly across the table. " If you had had two or 

. (182) 



A DESPERATE VEXATION. 183 

three of our regiments, with one of our generals, your 
war would have been finished up m no time !" 

I've had such a vexation to-day that I'm really quite 
beside myself ! I was to play the first movement of my 
Rubmstein Concerto in the conservatory with the orches- 
tra. I've been straining every nerve over it for several 
weeks, practicing mcessantly, and had learned it perfectly. 
When I played it in the class the other day it went beau- 
tifully, and I think even KuUak was satisfied. Well, of 
course I was anticipating playing it with the orchestra 
before an audience, with much pleasure, and hoped I was 
going to distinguish myself. Music-dhector Wuerst and 
Franz Kullak always take charge of these orchestra les- 
sons, sometimes one directing and sometimes the other. 
I got up early this mornmg, and practiced an hour and 
a half before I went to the conservatory, and I was there 
the first of all who were to play concertos. I spoke to 
Wuerst and told him what I was to play, and he said 
"All right." Wouldn't you have thought now, that he 
would have let me play first? Not a bit of it. He first 
heard the orchestra play a stupid symphony of Hadyn's, 
which they might just as well have left out. Then he 
began screaming out to know if Herr Moszkowski was 
there? Herr Moszkowski, however, was not there, and 
I began to breathe freer, for he is a finished artist, and 
has been studying with Kullak for years, and plays in 
concerts. Of course if he had played first, it would have 
been doubly hard for me to muster up my courage, and 
you would have thought that Wuerst would have taken 
that into consideration. As Moszkowski was absent, I 
thought I certainly should be called up next, but another 



184 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

girl received the preference. She played extremely well, 
and Wuerst paid her liis compliments, and then took his 
departure, leaving Franz Kullak to conduct. Then one 
of my class played Beethoven's G major concerto most 
wretchedly. Poor creature, she was nervous and fright- 
ened, and couldn't do herself any sort of justice. At 
last it was over, and at last Franz Kullak sung out, "We 
will now have Rubinstein's concerto in D minor." 

I got up, went to the piano, wiped oS the keys, 
which were completely loet from the nervous fingers 
of those who had preceded me, and was just going to 
sit down, when a young fellow approached from the 
other side with the same intention. " 0, Fraulein 
Fay, you have the same concerto ? Very well, you can 
play it the next time. To-day Herr So-and-So plays 
it !" Now, did you ever know anything so provoking? 
I hoped at least that the young fellow would play it 
well, and that I should learn something, but he per- 
fectly murdered it, and there I had to sit through it 
all, with the piece tingling at my fingers ends — and 
now there's no knowing when I shall play it, as the 
orchestra lessons are so seldom and so uncertain. I 
hope there w^ill be one two weeks from to-day, but 
even so I probably slian't do half so well as I should 
have done to-day, for the freshness will be all out of 
the piece, and I've practiced it so much now that I 
hate the sound of it, and can't bear to waste any more 
time over it. Such is life ! I thought this time that 
I had taken every precaution to ensure success, for I 
had risen early every day, and eaten no end of the 
"bread of carefulness," and the result is — nothing at 



A POLISH ARTIST. 185 

all ! Not even a failure. It is the more to be re- 
gi'etted as to-day was the first Sunday of the month, 
and I wanted to go to church, especially as the bad 
weather kept me at home for two Sundays. However, 
I'm determined I will play the concerto yet, if I stake 
"Kopf und Kragen (head and collar)" on it, as the 
Germans say. — But oh, the difficulty of doing anything 
at all in this world ! 

December 18, 1872. — At last I played my Rubin- 
stein concerto a week ago Sunday with the orchestra, 
and had the pleasure of being told by Scharwenka 
that I had had a brilliant success. Franz Kullak said 
that my octave passages were superbly played, and 
Moszkowski (who, to my surprise, was playing first 
violin) aiaplauded. So I was complimented by the 
three of whom I stood most in awe. Scharwenka and 
Moszkowski are both finished artists and exquisite 
composers, and play a great deal in concerts'this win- 
ter. Scharwenka is very handsome. He is a Pole, 
and is very proud of his nationality. And, indeed, 
there is something interesting and romantic about 
being a Pole. The very name conjures up thoughts 
of revolutions, conspiracies, bloody executions, masked 
balls, and, of course, grace, wit and beauty ! Schar- 
wenka certainly sustains the traditions of his race as 
far as the latter qualification is concerned. I never 
talked with him, as I have but a bowing acquaintance 
with him, so I don't know what sort of a mind he has, 
but I find myself looking at him and saying to myself 
with a certain degree of satisfaction, " He is a Pole." 
Why I should have this feeling I know not, but I 



186 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

seeiii to be proud of knowing Poles ! — Scharwenka 
has a clear olive complexion, oval face, hazel eyes (I 
think) and a mass of brown silky hair which he wears 
long, and which falls about his head in a most pictur- 
esque and attractive fashion. He always presides 
over the piano at the orchestral lessons in the conser- 
vatory on Sunday mornings, and supplies those parts 
which are wanting. When concertos are performed he 
accompanies. He has a delightful serenity of manner, 
and sits there with quiet dignity, his back to the win- 
dows, and the light striking through his fluffy hair. 
He plays beautifully, and composes after Chopin's 
manner. Perhaps he will do greater things and de- 
velop a style of his own by and by. Every winter he 
gives a concert in Berlin in the Sing-Akademie. 

By the way, I would not advise your paying any at- 
tention to what Gr. says about music. She is incapa- 
ble of forming a correct judgment on the subject, and 
she used to provoke me to death with her ignorant 
and sweeping criticisms. I continually set her right, 
but to hear her go on about music and musicians is 
much like hearing S. R. and the M. crowd talk about 
art. What can be easier or more absurd, than to set 
yourself up and say that " nobody satisfies you." 
Stuff! — As for Kullak, I think a master must be 
judged by the number of players he turns out. In 
the two years that I have studied with him he has 
formed six or eight artists to my knowledge, beside 
no end of pupils who play extremely well. People 
come to him from all over the world, and as an artist 
himself he ranks first class. Sherwood, now, is a 



A GIFTED GIRL. 187 



judge, as he is very gifted and plays splendidly ; — 
(that is, his playing lacks force, as yet, according to my 
taste, but he has a beautiful conception, and plays a 
composition always as if he were improvising it) and he 
is devoted to Kullak, and says there is nobody equal 
to him as a teacher, though he spent the summer in 
Stuttgardt, where he was made everything of. Sher- 
wood is Kullak's pet and pride, and indeed, since his 
advent in the conservatory Kullak has shut up entirely 
on the subject of American want of talent. 

As to the Hoch Schule, with which Joachim has so 
much to do, it is a rising institution and under the 
royal protection, but stringed instruments are its 
specialty. They have excellent piano teachers, of 
course, but no one who is fairly on a par with Kullak. 
I went to one of their concerts the other night, and 
there were only two piano pieces on the programme. 
The first performance was nothing remarkable, but 
the second was by a young girl about fifteen, named 
Natalie Janotha, and she is another little genius. She 
is a protegee of the Emperor, and whether she stud- 
ies in the Hoch Schule, or has learned what she 
knows elsewhere, is the question, for she plays just 
like Clara Schumann. Some day she will be a won- 
der. The Emperor heard her somewhere in Weimar, 
for she seems to be under the protection of the Prin- 
cess Pauline of Saxe Weimar, and he was so struck 
with her that he promised he would pay for her 
musical instruction for three years, and told her that 
she might ask him a favour and he would grant it. 
She asked for a commission for her brother, who is in 



188 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



the army, and the Emperor gave him one. — Quite like 
a novel, wasn't it? 

The other night the Emperor and Empress were 
present at the concert, and this Princess Pauline, 
and I saw my lovely and bewitching Baroness von S.,and 
von Moltke. Natalie Janotha glanced up to them and 
bowed as she drew off her gloves. She wasn't the least 
nervous, and played successively a Novellette by Schu- 
mann, a Song without Words by Mendelssohn, and Cho- 
pin's E Minor Scherzo. I was entirely carried away by 
her wonderfully poetic rendering, and by her warmth 
and individuality of style. She looked perfectly ex- 
quisite, too, when she was playing, though I saw after- 
wards that she wasn't the least pretty. Altogether, she 
is entirely unique. 

Another time I was present when she was to play 
Beethoven's great E Flat Concerto, and she came 
waving and undulating down the stage steps of the 
Sing-Akademie to her piano — so gracefully ! She was 
dressed in a white silk trimmed with white velvet — a 
toilette probably given to her at court, as she is a great 
pet of the Empress. Her hair was tied back with a 
blue ribbon, a knot on her head and the ends falling 
down over the hair. There is a long instrumental pre- 
lude to the concerto, and she sat with head bent and 
eyelids down, Avaiting for it to get through. She 
seemed just like a little pony, so docile and meek, 
but as it came time for her to begin, she lifted her big 
blue orbs inquiringly to the conductor to receive his 
sign, and then she looked exactly like one of Raphael's 
little seraphs in the Sistine Mjidonna. 



AN AMERICAN PHGENIX. 189 

It is strange how some people's whole appearance 
changes under the influence of music. There is a girl 
in our class who is plain, and not even her splendid 
blue eyes can make you forget her unfortunate mouth 
and badly-shaped teeth. But when she plays, her 
whole being seems to become harmonious. An expres- 
sion of deep tragedy comes over her face, and though 
she sits perfectly still, one feels as if all her members 
were in sympathy with her flying fingers, and were 
moving rhythmically with them. It is most peculiar, 
and very fascinating, I think. I can't bear to see 
people rocking and swaying all over the piano, but 
this veiled motion, this half concealment of the soul, 
is very beautiful. It is like a lamp inside of a vase. 

I must tell you about a new acquaintance I've just 
made, a Mr. P., a Harvard man, very fascinating, 
very brilliant, a great swell, and the most perfect dancer 
I ever saw. I first met this phoenix at a dinner, when 
he fairly sparkled. He seemed to have the history of 
all countries at his tongue's end, and went through 
revolutions and reigns in the most rapid way. We 
had an animated discussion over the Germans, whom 
he loathes and despises, and he brought up all the his- 
torical events he could to justify his disgust. I was 
on the defensive, of course. " They've no delicacy, ^^ 
said P., in his emphatic way, and I had to give in 
there. Indeed, I can imagine that to a fastidious crea- 
ture like him, imbued, too, with all the Southern chiv- 
alry, the Germans would be startling, to say the least. 
« Why," he cried, " they help you at table with their 
o'v\n forks after they've been eating with them ! 



190 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

What do you think my host did to-day? He took a 
piece of meat that he had begun to eat, from his own 
plate! and put it on to mine with his own fork! ! say- 
ing, ' Try this, this is a good piece !' — His inten- 
tions were excellent, but it never occurred to him that I 
shouldn't be delighted to eat after him." — P. can't bear 
it when the waiters at the restaurants pretend to 
think him a lord and address him as " Herr Graf." 
" I'll teach them to Herr Graf me," said he between 
his teeth, lowering his head, his eyes flashing danger- 
ous fire. But it is quite likely that they do suppose 
him a lord, for he looks it, " every inch." 

I met him again at a reception, and was having a 
most charming conversation with him about Goethe, 
whom he was dissecting in his keen way, when in 
came Mr. and Mrs. N. I knew at once that there 
was an end of our delightful talk, for though Mrs. N. 
has a most fascinating and high-bred husband herself, 
and is, moreover, extremely jealous of him, she is 
never content unless the most agreeable man in the 
room is devoted to her, also. Sure enough, she came 
straight toward us, and took occasion to whisper some 
senseless thing in my ear. Of course Mr. P. had to 
offer her his seat. She was, however, not quite bare- 
faced enough to take it, but she had succeeded in 
breaking the tete-a-tete and in distracting his atten- 
tion. Soon after, another gentleman came up to speak 
to me, Mr. P. bowed, and for the rest of the evening 
he was pinned to Mrs. N.'s side. Such are the satisfac- 
tions of parties ! Either one does not meet any one 
worth talking to, or the conversation is sure to be in- 



THE "PHGENIX" DISAPPEARS. 191 

teiTiipted. It takes these women of the world, like 
Mrs. N., to get the plums out of the pudding. 

However, seeing him dance gave me almost as much 
pleasure as talking with him. He has this air of hav- 
ing danced millions of Germans, and is grace and ele- 
gance incarnate. Just at the end of the party, he 
asked me for a turn, and we took three long ones. I 
never enjoyed dancing so much. He manages to an- 
nihilate his legs entirely, and his arm, though strong, 
is so light that you feel yourself borne along like a 
bubble, and are only conscious that you are sustained 
and guided. He inspired me so that I danced really 
well, but when he complimented me, I basely re- 
frained from letting him know it was all owing to 
him ! By a funny coincidence he is the son of that 
elegant Mrs. P. who was on the steamer with me, 
and his father is very prominent in politics. I remem- 
ber perfectly the pride with which Mrs. P. spoke to 
me of this son, and how slightly interested I was. 
He accompanied her to the steamer, and in fact the first 
time I saw her was when Mr. T., who was standing by 
me on the deck, said, " That was a mother's kiss," as she 
rapturously embraced him on taking leave. I didn't 
notice Mr. P. at all, though he says he remembers me 
perfectly standing there. He is going, or has gone, to 
Eussia, and from there he will rejoin his family in 
Paris. That is the worst of being abroad. Charming 
people pass over your path like comets and disap- 
pear, never to be seen again. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

A German Professor. Sherwood. The Baroness von S. 

Von Billow. A German Party. Joachim. 

The Baroness at Home. 

Berlin, February 25, 1873. 

At Mr. P.'s we had a charming dinner the other day, 
which was as sociable as possible, though we sat thir- 
teen at table. Think what an oversight ! I believe 
though, that I was the only one who perceived it. I sat 
next to a German professor, who is said to speak sixty- 
four languages ! He had a little compact head, which 
looked as if it were stuffed and crammed to the utmost. 
I reflected a long time which of his sixty-four lan- 
guages I should start him on, but finally concluded that 
as I spoke English with tolerable fluency we would 
confine ourselves to that ! He was perfectly delightful 
to talk to, as all these German savans are, and I got 
a lot of new ideas from him. He had been writing 
a pamphlet on the subject of love, as considered in 
various ancient and modern languages, and in it 
he proves that the passion of love used to be quite 
a different thing from what it is now. All this ideality 
of sentiment is entirely modern. 

My friend Miss B. is playing exquisitely now, and 
Sherwood is going ahead like a young giant. To-day 
Kullak said that Sherwood played Beethoven's E flat 
major concerto (the hardest of all Beethoven's con- 

(192) 



THE BARONESS AGAIN. 193 

certos) with a perfection that he had rarely heard 
equalled. So much for being a genius/ for he is still 
under twenty, and has only been abroad a year or two. 
But he studied with our best American master, Wil- 
liam Mason, and played like an artist before he came. 
But, then, Sherwood has one enormous advantage that 
no master on earth can bestow, and that is, perfect con- 
fidence in himself. There's nothing like having faith 
in yourself, and I believe that is the kind of faith that 
"moves mountains." 

At Mr. Bancroft's grand party f orWashington's birth- 
day, last Friday, he presented me to the Baroness von 
S., but without telling her that I was the person who 
wrote that letter about her and Wilhelm j that M. pub- 
lished without my knowledge in DioigMs Journal. 
She was as exquisite as I thought she would be, and is 
the most bewitching creature ! She is just such a 
woman as Balzac describes — like Honorine, for in- 
stance. She has "roeil plein de feu^'' etc., and is grace 
and sentiment personified. 

She was dressed in white silk, cut square neck and 
trimmed with a lot of little box -plaited ruffles round 
the bottom. Round her throat was a black velvet 
ribbon, with a necklace of magnificent pearls fastened 
to it in festoons and a diamond pendant in the middle. 
She greeted me with a ceremonious bow, and began 
the conversation by complimenting me on an accom- 
paniment I had been playing. I told her I was study- 
ing music here, and that I had been in Tausig's con- 
servatory a year. As soon as I mentioned him we got 
on delightfully, for she was his favourite pupil, and 
3 



194 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

we talked a good deal about him and Billow. She 
said she had heard Tausig play everything he ever 
learned, she thought, and that only a fortnight be- 
fore his death, he was at her house and played Chopin's 
first Sonata. The last movement comes after the 
well-known Funeral March (which forms the Adagio) 
and is very 2:>eculiar. It is a continual running move- 
ment with both hands in unison, and it is played all 
muffled, and with the soft pedal. Kullak thinks that 
Chopin meant to express that after the grave all is 
dust and ashes, but the Baroness said that Tausig 
thought Chopin meant to represent by it the ghost of 
the departed wandering about. On this occasion, 
when Tausig had finished playing it, he turned and 
said to her, " That seems to me like the wind blowing 
over my grave." A fortnight later he was dead ! I 
asked her if it were not dreadful that such an artist 
should have died so young. The most pained look 
came into her beautiful eyes, and she said, " I have 
never been able to reconcile myself to it." 

The conversation continued in the most charming 
manner until von Moltke came up to speak to her on 
one side and Mr. Bancroft on the other offered his 
arm to lead her into the supper-room. " Did you tell 
her ?" whispered Mr. Bancroft. " No ; how could I ?" 
said T. " You ought to tell her." So I imagine 
he did tell her, as they went into supper, that I was 
the young lady who had described her in the paper. 
I did not have a chance to approach her again until 
just as I was going home. She was standing in the 
door-way of an ante-room with Mi*. Bancroft, wrapped 



AN ARISTOCRATIC PARTY. 195 

in her opera cloak and waiting for her carriage to be 
announced. I bade Mr. Bancroft good-night, and as I 
passed her she put out her hand and said to me with 
a meaning look, in her little hesitating English, '^ I 
am so happy to have met you." I told her I owed her 
an apology, which I hoped to make another time. 
"Oh, no," said she, smilingly, "I am very thankful." 
— I suppose she meant " very much flattered," or 
something of that kind. 

I heard two tremendous concerts of Billow's lately. 
Oh, I do hope you'll hear him some day ! He is a 
colossal artist. I never heard a pianist I liked so well. 
He has such perfect mastery, and yet such comprehen- 
sion and such sympathy. Among other things, he 
played Beethoven's last Sonata. Such a magnificent 
one as it is ! I liked it better than the Appassionata. 

The other night I went to a party at a General von 
der Gr.'s. It was a " dreadfully " elegant set of peo- 
ple — all countesses, Vons and generals' wives. Stiff, 
oh, how stiff ! I felt as if the ladies did me a per- 
sonal favor every time they spoke to me. They 
were very handsomely dressed, and wore their fam- 
ily jewels. There was a great deal of music, and 
a certain old Herr von K. sat on a sofa and nod- 
ded his head a la connoisseur, while the officers 
stood round and scarcely dared to wink. The for- 
mality did not abate till we adjourned to the sup- 
per-room, when, as is always the case in German 
parties, everybody's tongue suddenly became loosed. — 
Germans are the happiest people at supper, and the 
most wretched before it, that you ever saw. Their 



196 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMAJnTY. 

parties are always "just so." So many hour? of propri- 
ety beforehand, — the ladies all by themselves round 
a centre-table in one room, the young girls discreetly 
sandAviched in between with their embroidery, and 
talking on the most limited subjects in the most *^papa, 
potatoes, poultry, prunes and prism " manner — and the 
men in the other room j^laying cards. On this occa- 
sion, when we went into supper, there was one large 
central table covered with the feast, and then there 
were little tables standing about, w^hither you co'ald 
retire with your prey when you had once secured it. 
I got something, and betook myself to a table in the 
corner, whither a young artist, also Miss B. and an 
officer, the son of the celebrated General von W., who 
won the battle of something, speedily followed me. 
The artist, Herr Meyer, sat opposite me, and I l)egan to 
jabber with him, unmindful of the officer, as I had pre- 
viously tried him on every subject in the known world 
without being able to extract a reply. We gradually col- 
lected a miscellaneous array of plates full of things, 
when I dropped one of my spoons on the floor. I 
picked it up, laid it aside, and began eating out of one 
of my other plates. Presently the officer, who had 
been glaring at me all the while out of his uniform, 
rose solemnly and went to the centre-table and re- 
turned. Suddenly I became aware, by my light being 
obscured, that he was standing opposite me on the other 
side of the table. I glanced up, and remarked that 
he had a spoon in his thumb and finger. As he did 
not offer it, however, it did not occur to me that it 
was for me, so I went on eating. After a minute I 



GOING TO WEIMAR. 197 

looked up again, and he was still standing as if he 
were pointing a gun, the spoon between thumb and 
finger. At last it dawned upon me that he had brought 
it for me, so I took it out of his hand and thanked 
him, whereupon he resumed his seat. I was so over- 
come by this unheard-of act of gallantry on the part 
of an aristocrat ! and an officer ! I that I felt I must 
say something worthy of the occasion. So after a few 
minutes I remarked to him, " Everything tastes very 
sweet out of this spoon !" — Total silence and impas- 
sibility of countenance on his part. — Miss B., who was 
sitting opposite, remarked mischievously, " That was 
entirely lost, my dear," and I was so depressed by my 
failure that I subsided and did not try to kindle him 
again. 



Berlin, April 14, 1873. 

Colonel B. told me some weeks ago, that Kullak had 
told him I was ready for the concert room, and that he 
would like to have me play at court. If this is his real 
opinion I have no evidence of it, for he knows I am 
anxious to play in concert before I leave Germany, and 
yet he does nothing whatever to bring me forward. It 
is very discouraging. In this conservatory there is no 
stimulus whatever. One might as well be a machine. 

I propose to go to Weimar the last of this week. It 
seems very strange that I shall actually know Liszt at 
last, after hearing of him so many years. I am wild to 
see him ! They say everything depends upon the humour 
he happens to be in when you come to him. I 



198 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

hope I sliall hit upon one of his indulgent moments. 
Every one says he gives no lessons. But I hope at least 
to play to him a few times, and what is more important, 
to hear hirn play repeatedly. Happy the pianist who 
can catch even a faint reflection of his wonderful style ! 

Not Ions: asfo Mr. Bancroft invited me to drive out 
to Tegel, Humboldt's country-seat, near here, with the 
Joachims, and so I had a three hours conversation with 
that idol ! He is the most modest, unpretending man 
possible. To hear him talk you wouldn't suppose he 
could play at all. I've always said to myself that if any- 
thing would be heaven, it would be to play a sonata with 
Joachim, but have supposed such a thing to be unattain- 
able — these master-artists are so proud and unapproach- 
able. But I think now it might not have been so difficult 
after all, he is so lovely. Joachim was very quiet during 
the first part of the excursion, and I couldn't think how 
I could get him to talk. At last I mentioned Wagner, 
whom I knew he hated. His eyes kindled, and he roused 
up, and after that was animated and interesting all the 
rest of the time ! He said that "Wagner was under the 
delusion that he was the only man in the world tliat 
understood Beethoven ; but it happened there were other 
people who could comprehend Beethoven as well as he," 
— and indeed, it is difficult to conceive of any one under- 
standing Beethoven any better than Joachim. 

Joachim is quite as noble and generous to poor artists 
as Liszt is, and constantly teaches them for nothing. He 
has the greatest enthusiasm for his class in the Hoch 
Schule, and I shouldn't think that any one who wishes 
to study the violin would think of going any where else. 



"CALLING" AT A PALACE ! 199 

They say that Joachim possesses beautiful social qualities, 
also, and has the faculty of entertaining in his own 
house charmingly. He brings out what there is in every 
one without apparently saying anything himself. 

The Baroness von S. had seemed so cordial and 
friendly at Mr. Bancroft's on account of the letter you 
had jDublished in DwighCs Journal of Music, that I 
filially made up my mind to the daring act of calling on 
her in order to ask her for a letter of introduction to 
Liszt. She lives in a palace belonging to the Empress. 
There is a deep court in front of it, with lions on the 
gateway. Before the door stood a soldier on guard. As 
I approached, one of the Gardes du Corps (the Crown 
Prince's regiment) emerged from the entrance. He was 
dressed all in white and silver, with big top boots, and 
his helmet surmounted by a silver eagle. He was an 
officer, and of course all the officers in this regiment 
belong to the flower of the nobility. I was rather awed 
by his imposing appearance, and advanced timidly to the 
doors, which were of glass, and pulled the bell. A tall 
phantom in livery appeared, as if by magic, and signed 
to me to ascend the grand staircase. The walls of it 
were all covered with pictures. I went up, and was 
received by another tall phantom in livery. I asked him 
"if the Frau Excellency was to be spoken." He took 
my card, and discreetly said, " he would see," at the same 
time ushering me into an immense ball-room, where he 
requested me to be seated. It was furnished in crimson 
satin, there were myriads of mirrors, and the floor was 
waxed. I took refuge in a corner of it, feeling very small 
indeed. Those few minutes of waiting were extremely 



200 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

uncomfortable, for I didn't know what she would say to 
my request, as I had only seen her that one time at Mr. 
Bancroft's, and was not sure that she would not regard 
my coming as a liberty. People are so severe in their 
ideas here. 

At last the servant returned and said she would receive 
me, and led the way across the ball-room to a door 
which he opened for me to enter. I found myself in a 
large, high room, also furnished in crimson, and in the 
centre of which stood two pianos nestled lovingly 
together. The Baroness was not there, however, and I 
saw what seemed to be an endless succession of rooms 
opening one out of the other, the doors always opposite 
each other. I concluded to "go on till I stopped," 
and after traversing three or four, I at last heard a 
faint murmur of voices, and entered what I suppose is 
her boudoir. There my divinity was seated in a little 
crimson satin sofa, talking to an old fellow who sat on 
a chair near her, whom she introduced as Herr Pro- 
fessor Somebody. He had a small, Avell-stuffed head, 
and a j)ale, observant eye that seemed to say, "I've 
looked into everything" — and I should think it had 
by the way lie conversed. 

The Baroness Avas attired in an olive-coloured silk, 
short, and fashionably made. She was leaning for- 
ward as she talked, and toying with a silver-sheathed 
dagger which she took from a table loaded with costly 
trifles next her. She rose as I came in, and greeted 
me very cordially, and asked me to sit down on the 
sofa by her. I explained to her my errand, and she im- 
mediately said she would give me a letter with the great- 



A HERR PROFESSOR. 301 

est pleasure. We had a very charming conversation 
about artists in general, and Liszt in particular, in 
which the little professor took a leading part. He 
showed himself the connoisseur he looked, and gradu- 
ally diverged from the art of music to that of speak- 
ing and reading, which he said was the most difficult 
of all the arts, because the tone was not there, but had 
to be made. He said he had never heard a perfect 
speaker or reader in his life. He descanted at great 
length upon the art of speaking, and finally, when he 
paused, the Baroness took my hand and said, " Where 
do you live ?" I gave her my address, and she said she 
would send me the letter. I then rose to go, and she as- 
sured me again she would say all she could to dispose 
Liszt favourably towards me. I thanked her, and said 
good-bye. She waited till I was nearly half across 
the next room, and then she called after me, " I'll say 
lots of pretty things about you I" That was a real 
little piece of coquetry on her part, and she knew that 
it would take me down ! She looked so sweet when 
she said it, standing and smiling there in the middle 
of the floor, the door-way making a frame for her. A 
few days afterward I met her in the street, and she 
told me she had enjoined it upon Liszt to be amiable 
to me, " but," she added, with a mischievous laugh, 
" I didn't tell him you wrote so well for the papers." 
Oh, she is too fascinating for anything I — She seems 
just to float on the top of the wave and never to think. 
Such exquisite perception and intelligence, and yet 
lightness ! 

The last excitement in Berlin was over the wedding 



202 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

of Prince Albrecht (the son of the one whose funeral 
I saw) with the Princess of Altenburg. When she 
arrived she made a regular entry into the city in a 
coacli all gold and glass, drawn by eight superb 
plumed horses. A band of music went before lier^ 
and she had an escort all in grand equipages. As she 
sat on the back seat witli the Crown Princess, mag- 
nificently dressed, and bowing from side to side, you 
rubbed your eyes and thought you saAV Cinderella ! 



WITH LISZT. 

(203) 



CHAPTER XVII. 

Arrives in Weimar. Liszt at the Theatre. At a Party. 

At his own House. 

Weimab, May 1, 1873. 

Last night I arrived in Weimar, and this evening I 
have been to the theatre, which is very cheap here, and 
the first person I saw, sitting in a box opposite, was 
Liszt, from whom, as you know, I am bent on getting 
lessons, though it will be a difiicult thing I fear, as I 
am told that Wiemar is overcrowded with people who 
are on the same errand. I recognized Liszt from his 
portrait, and it entertained and interested me very 
much to observe him. He was making himself agree- 
able to three ladies, one of whom was very pretty. He 
sat with his back to the stage, not paying the lea-st at- 
tention, apparently, to the play, for he kept talking all 
the while himself, and yet no point of it escaped him, 
as I could tell by his expression and gestures. 

Liszt is the most interesting and striking looking 
man imaginable. Tall and slight, with deep-set eyes, 
shaggy eyebrows, and long iron-gray hair, which he 
wears parted in the middle. His mouth turns up at 
the corners, which gives him a most crafty and Me- 
phistophelean expression when he smiles, and his whole 
appearance and manner have a sort of Jesuitical ele- 
gance and ease. His hands are very narrow, with long 
and slender fingers that look as if they had twice as 

(205) 



206 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

many joints as other people's. They are so flexible 
and supple that it makes you nervous to look at 
them. Anything like the polish of his manner I never 
saw. When he got up to leave the box, for instance, 
after his adieux to the ladies, he laid his hand on his 
heart and made his final bow, — not with affectation, 
or m mere gallantry, but with a quiet courtliness which 
made you feel that no other way of bowing to a lady 
was right or proper. It was most characteristic. 

But the most extraordinary thing about Liszt is his 
wonderful variety of expression and play of feature. 
One moment his face will look dreamy, shadowy, tragic. 
The next he will be insinuating, amiable, ironical, sar- 
donic ; but always the same captivating grace of man- 
ner. He is a perfect study. I cannot imagine how 
he must look when he is playing. He is all spirit, but 
half the time, at least, a mocking spirit, I should say. 
I have heard the most remarkable stories about him 
already. All Weimar adores him, and people say that 
women still go perfectly crazy over him. When he 
walks out he bows to everybody just like a King ! The 
Grand Duke has presented him with a house beauti- 
fully situated on the park, and here he lives elegantly, 
free of expense, whenever he chooses to come to it. 



Weimar, May 7, 1873. 

There isn't a piano to be had in Weimar for love or 

money, as there is no manufactory, and the few there 

were to be disposed of were snatched up before I got 

here. So I have lost an entire week in hunting one 



LISZT'S APPEARANCE. 207 

up, and was obliged to go first to Erfurt and finally 
to Leipsic, before I could find one — and even that was 
sent over as a favour after much coaxing and persua- 
sion. I felt so happy when I fairly saw it in my room ! 
As if I had taken a city ! However, I met Liszt two 
evenings ago at a little tea-party given by a friend and 
protegee of his to as many of his scholars as have ar- 
rived, I being asked with the rest. Liszt promised to 
come late. We only numbered seven. There were 
three young men and four young ladies, of whom three, 
including myself, were Americans. Five of the num- 
ber had studied with Liszt before, and the young men 
are artists already before the public. 

To fill up the time till Liszt came, our hostess made 
us play, one after the other, beginning with the latest 
arrival. After we had each "exhibited," little 
tables were brought in and supper served. We 
were in the midst of it, and having a merry time, when 
the door suddenly opened and Liszt appeared. We all 
rose to our feet, and he shook hands with everybody 
without waiting to be introduced. Liszt looks as if 
he had been through everything, and has a face seamed 
with experience. He is rather tall and narrow, and 
wears a long abbe's coat reaching nearly down to his 
feet. He made me think of an old time magician 
more than anything, and I felt that with a touch of 
his wand he could transform us all. After he had 
finished his greetings, he passed into the next room 
and sat down. The young men gathered round him 
and offered him a cigar, which he accepted and began 
to smoke. We others continued our nonsense where 



208 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

we were, and I suppose Liszt overheard some of our 
brilliant conversation, for he asked who we were, I 
think, and presently the lady of the house came out 
after Miss W. and me, the two American strangers, to 
take us in and present us to him. 

After the preliminary greetings we had some little 
talk. He asked me if I had been to Sophie Menters 
concert in Berlin the other day. I said yes. He 
remarked that Miss Menter was a great favourite of 
his, and that the lady from whom I had brought a let- 
ter to him had done a good deal for her. I asked him 
if Sophie Menter were a pupil of his. He said no, he 
could not take the credit of her artistic success to 
himself. I heard afterwards that he really had done 
ever so much for her, but he won't have it said that 
he teaches ! After he had finished his cigar, Liszt got 
up and said, "America is now to have the floor," and 
requested Miss W. to play for liim. This was a dread- 
ful ordeal for us new arrivals, for we had not expected 
to be called upon. I began to quake inwardly, for I 
had been without a piano for nearly a week, and was 
not at all prepared to play to him, while Miss W. had 
been up since five o'clock in the morning, and had 
travelled all day. However, there was no gettmg off. 
A request from Liszt is a command, and Miss W. sat 
down, and acquitted herself as well as could have been 
expected under the circumstances. Liszt waved his 
hand and nodded his head from time to time, and 
seemed pleased, I thought. He then called upon Lei- 
tert, who played a composition of Liszt's own most 
beautifully. Liszt commended him and patted him 



AN ABSURD ORGANIST. 209 

on the back. As soon as Leitert had finished, I slipped 
off into the back room, hoping Liszt would forget all 
about me, but he followed me almost immediately, 
like a cat with a mouse, took both my hands in his, 
and said in the most winning way imaginable, ^^ Madem- 
oiselle, vous jouerez quelqne-chose, rCest-ce-pas ? " 
I can't give you any idea of his persuasiveness, when 
he chooses. It is enough to decoy you into anything. 
It was such a desperate moment that I became reck- 
less, and without even telling him that I was out of 
practice and not prepared to play, I sat down and 
plunged into the A flat major Ballade of Chopin, as if 
I were possessed. The piano had a splendid touch, 
luckily. Liszt kept calling out " Bravo " every min- 
ute or two, to encourage me, and somehow, I got 
through. When I had finished, he clapped his hands 
and said, " Bravely played." He asked with whom I 
had studied, and made one or two little criticisms. I 
hoped he would shove me aside and play it himself, 
but he didn't. 

Liszt is just like a monarch, and no one dares speak to 
him until he addresses one first, which I think no fun. 
He did not play to us at all, except when some one 
asked him if he had heard R. play that afternoon. 
R. is a young organist from Leipsic, who telegraphed 
to Liszt to ask him if he might come over and play to 
him on the organ. Liszt, with his usual amiability, 
answerd that he might. "Oh," said Liszt, with an 
indescribably comic look, "he improvised for me a 
whole half -hour in this style," — and then he got up 
and went to the piano, and without sitting down he 
14 



210 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

played some ridiculous chords in the middle of the key- 
board, and then little trills and turns high up in the 
treble, which made us all burst out laughing. Shortly 
after I had played I took my leave. Liszt had gone 
into the other room to smoke, and I didn't care to fol- 
low him, as I saw that he was tired, and had no inten- 
tion of playing to us. Our hostess told Miss W. and 
me to " slip out so that he would not perceive it." 
Yesterday Miss W. went to see him, and he asked her 
if she knew that Miss " Fy," and told her to tell me to 
come to him. So I shall present myself to-morrow, 
though I don't know how the lion will act when I 
beard him in his den. 



Weimar, May 21, 1873. 
Liszt is so besieged by people and so tormented with 
applications, that I fear I should only have been sent 
away if I had come without the Baroness von S.'s let- 
ter of introduction, for he admires her extremely, and 
I judge that she has much influence with him. He 
says " people fly in his face by dozens," and seem to 
think he is " only there to give lessons." He gives no 
paid lessons whatever, as he is much too grand for 
that, but if one has talent enough, or pleases him, he 
lets one come to him and play to him. I go to him 
every other day, but I don't play more than twice a 
week, as I cannot prepare so much, but I listen to the 
others. Up to this point there have been only four in 
the class besides myself, and I am the only new one. 
From four to six P. M. is the time when he receives 



A TIMID PUPIL. 211 



his scholars. The first time I went I did not play to 
him, but listened to the rest. Urspruch and Leitert, 
the two young men whom 1 met the other night, have 
studied with Liszt a long time, and both play superbly. 
Fraulein Schultz and Miss Gaul (of Baltimore), are 
also most gifted creatures. 

As I entered Liszt's salon, Urspruch was perform- 
ing Schumann's Symphonic Studies — an immense 
composition, and one that it took at least half an 
hour to get through. He played so splendidly that 
my heart sank down into the very depths. I thought 
I should never get on there! Liszt came forward and 
greeted me in a very friendly manner as I entered. He 
was in very good humour that day, and made some 
little witticisms. Urspruch asked him what title he 
should give to a piece he was composing. "Per aspera 
ad astra^^ said Liszt. This was such a good hit that 
I began to laugh, and he seemed to enjoy my apprecia- 
tion of his little sarcasm. I did not play that time, as 
my piano had only just come, and I was not prepared 
to do so, but I went home and practiced tremendously 
for several days on Chopin's B minor sonata. It is 
a gi'eat composition, and one of his last works. When 
I thought I could play it, I went to Liszt, though with 
a trembling heart. I cannot tell you what it has cost 
me every time I have ascended his stairs. I can 
scarcely summon up courage to go there, and generally 
stand on the steps awhile before I can make up my 
mind to open the door and go in ! 

This day it was particularly tr}^ng, as it was really 
my first serious performance before him, and he speaks 



212 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

so very indistinctly that I feared I shouldn't under- 
stand his corrections, and that he would get out of 
patience with me, for he cannot bear to explain. I 
think he hates the trouble of speaking German, for 
he mutters his words and does not half finish his sen- 
tences. Yesterday when I was there he spoke to me 
in French all the time, and to the others in German, 
— one of his funny whims, I suppose. 

Well, on this day the artists Leitert and Urspruch, 
and the young composer Metzdorf, who is always hang- 
ing about Liszt, were in the room when I came. They 
had probably been playing. At first Liszt took no 
notice of me beyond a greeting, till Metzdorf said to 
him, " Herr Doctor, Miss Fay has brought a sonata." 
" Ah, well, let us hear it," said Liszt. Just then he left 
the room for a minute, and I told the three gentlemen 
that they ought to go away and let me play to Liszt 
alone, for I felt nervous about playing before them. 
They all laughed at me and said they would not budge 
an inch. When Liszt came back they said to him, 
" Only think, Herr Doctor, Miss Fay proposes to send 
us all home." I said I could not play before such 
great artists. "Oh, that is healthy for you," said Liszt^ 
with a smile, and added, "you have a very choice au- 
dience, now." I don't know whether he appreciated 
how nervous I was, but instead of walking up and 
down the room as he often does, he sat down by me 
like any other teacher, and heard me play the first 
movement. It was frightfully hard, but I had studied 
it so much that I managed to get through with it 
pretty successfully. Nothing could exceed Liszt's 



LISZT PLAYS TO HER. 213 

amiability, or the trouble he gave himself, and instead 
of frightening me, he inspired me. Never was there 
such a delightful teacher ! and he is the first sympa- 
thetic one I've had. You feel so free with him, and 
he develops the very spirit of music in you. He doesn't 
keep nagging at you all the time, but he leaves you 
your own conception. Now and then he will make a 
criticism, or play a passage, and with a few words give 
you enough to think of all the rest of your life. There 
is a delicate point to everything he says, as subtle as 
he is himself. He doesn't tell you anything about the 
technique. That you must work out for yourself. 
When I had finished the first movement of the sonata, 
Liszt, as he always does, said " Bravo !" Taking my 
seat, he made some little criticisms, and then told me 
to go on and play the rest of it. 

Now, I only half knew the other movements, for the 
first one was so extremely difficult that it cost me all 
the labour I could give to prepare that. But playing 
to Liszt reminds me of trying to feed the elephant in 
the Zoological Garden with lumps of sugar. He dis- 
poses of whole movements as if they were nothing, and 
stretches out gravely for more I One of my fingers fortu- 
nately began to bleed, for I had practiced the skin off, 
and that gave me a good excuse for stopping. "Whether 
he was pleased at this proof of industry, I know not ; 
but after looking at my finger and saying, " Oh !" very 
compassionately, he sat down and played the whole 
three last movements himself. That was a great deal, 
and showed off all his powers. It Avas the first time I 
had heard him, and I don't know which was the most 



214 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

extraordinary, — the Scherzo, with its wonderful light- 
ness and swiftness, the Adagio with its depth and 
pathos, or the last movement, Avliere the whole key- 
board seemed to " doimern und hlitzen (thunder and 
lighten)." There is such a vividness about everything 
he plays that it does not seem as if it were mere music 
you were listening to, but it is as if he had called up a 
real, living form, and you saw it breathing before your 
face and eyes. It gives me almost a ghostly feeling to 
hear him, and it seems as if the air were peopled with 
spirits. Oh, he is a perfect wizard ! It is as interest- 
ing to see him as it is to hear him, for his face changes 
with every modulation of tlie piece, and he looks ex- 
actly as he is playing. He has one element that is 
most captivating, and that is, a sort of delicate and 
fitful mirth that keeps peering out at you here and 
there ! It is most peculiar, and when he plays that way, 
the most bewitching little expression comes over his 
face. It seems as if a little spirit of joy were playing 
hide and go seek with you. 

On Friday Liszt came and paid me a visit, and even 
played a little on my piano. — Only think what an hon- 
our ! At the same time he told me to come to him 
that afternoon and play to him, and invited me also to a 
matinee he was going to give on Sunday for some 
countess of distinction who was here for a few days. 
None of the other scholars were asked, and Avhen I en- 
tered the room there were only three persons in it be- 
side Liszt. One was the Grand Duke himself, the 
other was the Countess von M. (born a Russian Prin- 
cess), and the third was a Russian minister's wife. 



FASHIONABLE COURTESY. 215 



They were all four standing in a little knot, speaking 
in French together. I had no idea who they were, as 
the Grand Duke was in morning costume, and had no 
star or decoration to distinguish him. I saw at a glance, 
however, that they were all swells, and so I didn't speak 
to any of them, luckily, though it was an even chance 
that I had not said something to avoid the awkward- 
ness of standing there like a post, for I had been told 
beforehand that Liszt never introduced people to each 
other. Liszt greeted me in a very friendly manner, 
and introduced me to the countess, but she was so dread- 
fully set up that it was impossible to get more than a 
few icy words out of her. I was thankful enough 
when more people arrived, so that I could retire to a 
corner and sit down without being observed, for it was 
a very uncomfortable situation to be standing, a 
stranger, close to four fashionables and not dare to 
speak to any of them because they did not address me. 
After the company was all assembled, it numbered 
eighteen persons, nearly all of whom were titled. I 
was the only unimportant one in it. Liszt was so 
sweet. He kept coming over to where I sat and talk- 
ing to me, and promised me a ticket for a private con- 
cert where only his compositions were to be performed. 
He seemed determined to make me feel at home. He 
played five times, but no great work, which was a dis- 
appointment to me, particularly as the last three times 
he played duetts with a leading Weimar artist named 
Lassen, who was present. He made me come and turn 
the leaves. Gracious ! how he does read ! It is very 
difficult to turn for him, for he reads ever so far ahead 



216 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

of what he is playing, and takes in fully five bars at a 
glance, so you have to guess about where you think he 
would like to have the page over. Once I turned it 
too late, and once too early, and he snatched it out of 
my hand and whirled it back. — Net quite the situation 
for timorous me, was it ? 

May 21. — To-day being my birthday, I thought 
I must go to Liszt by way of celebration. I 
wasn't really ready to play to him, but I took his sec- 
ond Ballade with me, and thought I'd ask him some 
questions about some hard places in it. He insisted 
upon my playing it. When we came in he looked 
indisposed and nervous, and there happened to be a 
good many artists there. We always lay our notes 
on the table, and he takes them, looks them over, and 
calls out what he'll have played. He remarked this 
piece and called out " Wer spielt diese grosse mdchtige 
Ballade von mir? (Who plays this great and mighty 
ballad of mine?)" I felt as if he had asked "Who 
killed Cock Robin?" and as if I were the one w^ho had 
done- it, only I did not feel like "owning up" to it quite 
so glibly as the sparrow had, for Liszt seemed to be in 
very bad humour, and had roughed the one who had 
played before me. I finally mustered up my courage 
and said " ZcA," but told him I did not know it per- 
fectly yet. He said, " No matter ; play it." So I sat 
down, expecting he would take my head off, but, 
strange to say, he seemed to be delighted with my 
playing, and said that I liad "quite touched him." 
Think of that from Liszt, and when I was playing his 
own composition ! When I went out he accompanied 



"IL FAUT VOUS GATER?" 217 

me to the door, took my hand in both of his and said^ 
" To-day you've covered yourself with glory !" I told 
him I had only begun it, and I hoped he would let me 
play it again when I knew it better. "What," said 
he, " I must pay you a still greater compliment, must 
I?" "Of course," said I. ''Ilfautvous gaterf ''Qui;' 
said I. He laughed. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

Liszt's Drawing-room. An Artist's Walking Party. Liszt's 

Teaching. 

Weimar, May 29, 1873. 
I am having the most heavenly time in Weimar, 
studying with Liszt, and sometimes I can scarcely real- 
ize that I am at that summit of my ambition, to be 
his pupil ! It was the Baroness von S.'s letter that 
secured it for me, I am sure. He is so overrun with 
people, that I think it is a wonder he is civil to 
anybody, but he is the most amiable man I ever knew, 
though he can be dreadful, too, when he chooses, and 
he understands how to put people outside his door 
in as short a space of time as it can be done. I go to 
him three times a week. At home Liszt doesn't wear 
his long abbe's coat, but a short one, in which he 
looks much more artistic. His figure is remarkably 
slight, but his head is most imposing. — It is so deli- 
cious in that room of his ! It was all furnished and 
put in order for him by the Grand Duchess herself. 
The walls are pale gray, with a gilded border running 
round the room, or rather two rooms, which are divided, 
but not separated, by crimson curtains. The furni- 
ture is crimson, and everything is so comfortable — such 
a contrast to German bareness and stiffness generally. 
A splendid grand piano stands in one window The 
receives a new one every year). The other window* ns 

(218) 



A MUSICAL MONARCH. 219 



always wide open, and looks out on the park. There 
is a dove-cote just opposite the window, and the doves 
promenade up and down on the roof of it, and fly 
about^ and sometimes whirr down on the sill itself. 
That pleases Liszt. His writing-table is beautifully 
fitted up with things that all match. Everything is 
in bronze — ink-stand, paper-weight, match-box, etc., 
and there is always a lighted candle standing on it by 
which he and the gentlemen can light their cigars. 
There is a carpet on the floor, a rarity in Germany, 
and Liszt generally walks about, and smokes, and mut- 
ters (he can never be said to talk), and calls upon one 
or other of us to play. From time to time he will sit 
down and play himself where a passage does not suit 
him, and when he is in good spirits he makes little 
jests all the time. His playing was a complete reve- 
lation to me, and has given me an entirely new insight 
into music. You cannot conceive, without hearing 
him, how poetic he is, or the thousand nuances that he 
can throw into the simplest thing, and he is equally 
great on all sides. From the zephyi* to the tempest, 
the whole scale is equally at his command. 

But Liszt is not at all like a master, and cannot be 
treated like one. He is a monarch, and when he 
extends his royal sceptre you can sit down and play to 
him. You never can ask him to play anything for 
you, no matter how much you're dying to hear it. If 
he is in the mood he will play, if not, you must con- 
tent yourself with a few remarks. You cannot even 
offer to play yourself. You lay your notes on the table, 
so he can see that you want to play, and sit down. He 



220 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

takes a turn up and down the room, looks at the music, 
and if the piece interests him, he will call upon you. 
We bring the same piece to him but once, and but once 
play it through. 

Yesterday I had prepared for him his Au Bord 
d^une Source. I was nervous and played badly. He 
was not to be put out, however, but acted as if he 
thought I had played charmingly, and then he sat 
down and played the whole piece himself, oh, so exqui- 
sitely ! It made me feel like a wood-chopper. The 
notes just seemed to ripple off his fingers' ends with 
scarce any perceptible motion. As he neared the 
close I remarked that that funny little expression came 
over his face which he always has when he means to 
surprise you, and he suddenly took an unexpected 
chord and extemporized a poetical little end, quite 
different from the written one. — Do you wonder that 
people go distracted over him? 

Weimar is a lovely little place, and there are most 
beautiful walks all about. Ascension being a holiday 
here, all we pianists made up a walking party out to 
Tiefurt, about two miles distant. We went in the 
afternoon and returned in the evening. The walk lay 
through the woods, and was perfectly exquisite the 
whole way. As we came back in the evening the night- 
ingales were singing, and I could not help wishing that 
P. were there to hear them, as he has such a passion 
for birds. There are cuckoos here, too, and you hear 
them calling "cuckoo, cuckoo." Metzdorf and I 
danced on the hard road, to the edification of all the 
others. In Tiefurt we partook of a magnificent col- 



LAURA KAHRER. 221 

lation consisting of a mug of beer, brown bread and 
sausage ! Some of the party preferred coffee, among 
whom was Metzdorf, who made us laugh by sticking 
the coffee-pot into his inside coat pocket as soon as 
he had poured out his first cup, in order to make sure 
that the others didn't take more than their share ; 
he would coolly take it out, help himself, and put 
it back again. The servant who waited got frightened, 
and thought he was going to steal it. Afterwards 
when we were playing games and wanted the door 
shut, the host came and opened it, and would not allow 
us to shut it, because he said we might carry off some- 
thing ! How's that ! 



Weimar, June 6, 1873. 
When I first came there were only five of us who 
studied with Liszt, but lately a good many others have 
been there. Day before yesterday there came a young 
lady who was a pupil of Henselt in St. Petersburg. 
She is immensely talented, only seventeen years old, 
and her name is Laura Kahrer. It is a very rare thing 
to see a pupil of Henselt, for it is very difficult to get 
lessons from him. He stands next to Liszt. This 
Laura Kahrer plays everything that ever was heard of, 
and she played a fugue of her own composition the 
other day that was really vigorous and good. I was 
quite astonished to hear how she had worked it up. 
She has made a grand concert tour in Russia. I never 
saw such a hand as she had. She could bend it back- 
wards till it looked like the palm of her hand turned 



222 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

inside out. She was an interesting little creature, with 
dark eyes and hair, and one could see by her Turkish 
necklace and numerous bangles that she had been 
making money. She played with the greatest aplomb, 
though her touch had a certain roughness about it to 
my ear. She did not carry me away, but I have not 
heard many pieces from her. 

However, all playing sounds barren by the side of 
Liszt, for his is the living, breathing impersonation of 
poetry, passion, grace, wit, coquetry, daring, tender- 
ness and every other fascinating attribute that you 
can think of ! I'm ready to hang myself half the time 
when I've been to him. Oh, he is the most phenome- 
nal being in every respect ! All that you've heard of 
him would never give you an idea of him. In short, 
he represents the whole scale of human emotion. He 
is a many-sided prism, and reflects back the light in 
all colours, no matter how you look at him. His pu- 
pils adore ^him, as in fact everybody else does, but it 
is impossible to do otherwise with a person whose genius 
flashes out of him all the time so, and whose character 
is so winning. 

One day this week, when we were with Liszt, he was 
in such high spirits that it was as if lie had suddenly 
become twenty years younger. A student from the 
Stuttgardt conservatory played a Liszt Concerto. His 
name is V., and he is dreadfully nervous. Liszt kept 
up a little running fire of satire all the time he was 
playing, but in a good-natured way. I shouldn't have 
minded it if it had been I. In fact, I think it would 
have inspired me ; but poor V. hardly knew whether 



LISZT ILLUSTRATING. 223 

he was on his head or on his feet. It was too funny. 
Everything that Liszt says is so striking. For instance, 
in one place where V. was playing the melody rather 
feebly, Liszt suddenly took his seat at the piano and 
said, " When I play, I always play for the people in 
the gallery [by the gallery he meant the cock-loft, 
where the rabble always sit, and where the places cost 
next to nothing], so that those persons who pay only 
five groschens for their seat also hear something." 
Then he began, and I wish you could have heard him ! 
The sound didn't seem to be very loud, but it was pen- 
etrating and far-reaching. When he had finished, he 
raised one hand in the air, and you seemed to see all 
the people in the gallery drinking in the sound. That 
is the way Liszt teaches you. He presents an idea to 
you, and it takes fast hold of your mind and sticks 
there. Music is such a real, visible thing to him, that 
he always has a symbol, instantly, in the material 
world to express his idea. One day, when I was play- 
ing, I made too much movement with my hand in a 
rotatory sort of a passage where it was difficult to 
avoid it. " Keep your hand still, Fraulein," said Liszt ; 
" donH make omelette." I couldn't help laughing, it 
hit me on the head so nicely. He is far too sparing 
of his playing, unfortunately, and, like Tausig, only 
sits down and plays a few bars at a time, generally. 
It is dreadful when he stops, just as you are at the 
height of your enjoyment, but he is so thoroughly 
blase that he doesn't care to show off, and doesn't like 
to have any one pay him a compliment. Even at the 
court it annoyed him so that the Grand Duchess told 



224 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

people to take no notice when he rose from the 
piano. 

On the same day that Lizst was in such high good- 
humour, a strange lady and her husband were there who 
had made a long journey to Weimar, in the hope of 
hearing him play. She waited patiently for a long 
time through the lesson, and at last Liszt took com- 
passion on her, and sat down with his favourite remark 
that " the young ladies played a great deal better than 
he did, but he would try his best to imitate them," 
and then played something of his own so wonderfully, 
that when he had finished we all stood there like posts, 
feeling that there was nothing to be said. But he, as 
if he feared we might burst out into eulogy, got up in- 
stantly and went over to a friend of his who was stand- 
ing there, and who lives on an estate near Weimar, 
and said, in the most commonplace tone imaginable, 
" By the way, how about those eggs ? Are you going 
to send me some ?" It seems to be not only a pro- 
found bore to him, but really a sort of sensitiveness 
on his part. How he can bear to hear us play, I can- 
not imagine. It must grate on his ear terribly, I think, 
because everything must sound expressionless to him 
in comparison with his own marvellous conception. I 
assure you, no matter how beautifully we play any 
piece, the minute Liszt plays it, you would scarcely 
recognize it ! His touch and his peculiar use of the 
pedal are two secrets of his playing, and then he seems 
to dive down in the most hidden thoughts of the com- 
poser, and fetch them up to the surface, so that they 
gleam out at you one by one, like stars ! 



VON BULOW. 225 



The more I see and hear Liszt, the more I am lost 
in amazement ! I can neither eat nor sleep on those 
days that I go to him. All my musical studies till 
now have been a mere going to school, a preparation 
for him. I often think of what Tausig said once : 
"Oh, compared with Liszt, we other artists are all 
blockheads." I did not believe it at the time, but I've 
seen the truth of it, and in studying Liszt's playing, I 
can see where Tausig got many of his own wonderful 
peculiarities. I think he was the most like Liszt of 
all the army that have had the privilege of his instruc- 
tion, — I began this letter on Sunday, and it is now 
Tuesday. Yesterday I went to Liszt, and found that 
Billow had just arrived. None of the other scholars 
had come, for a wonder, and I was just going away, 
when Liszt came out, asked me to come in a moment, 
and introduced me to Btilow. There I was, all alone 
with these two great artists in Liszt's salon! Wasn't 
that a situation? I only stayed a few minutes, of 
course, though I should have liked to spend hours, 
but our conversation was in the highest degree amus- 
ing while I V3as there. Billow had just returned from 
his grand concert tour, and had been in London for 
the first time. In a few months he had given one 
hundred and twenty concerts ! He is a fascinating 
creature, too, like all these master artists, but entirely 
different from Liszt, being small, quick, and airy in 
/lis movements, and having one of the boldest and 
proudest foreheads I ever saw. He looks like strength 
of will personified. Liszt gazed at " his Hans," as he 
calls him, with the fondest pride, and seemed perfectly 
15 



226 



MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



happy over his arrival. It was like his beautiful 
courtesy to call me in and introduce me to Btilow in- 
stead of letting me go away. He thought I had come 
to play to him, and was unwilling to have me take 
that trouble for nothing, though he must have wished 
me in Jericho. You would think I paid him a hun- 
dred dollars a lesson, instead of his condescending to 
sacrifice his valuable time to me for nothing. 



CHAPTER XIX. 

Liszt's Expression in Playing. Liszt on Conservatories. 
Ordeal of Liszt's Lessons. Liszt's Kindness. 

Weimar, June 19, 1873. 
In Liszt I can at last say that my ideal in something 
has been realized. He goes far beyond all that I 
expected. An3rthing so perfectly beautiful as he looks 
when he sits at the piano I never saw, and yet he is 
almost an old man now.* I enjoy him as I would an 
exquisite work of art. His personal magnetism is 
immense, and I can scarcely bear it when he plays. 
He can make me cry all he chooses, and that is saying 
a good deal, because I've heard so much music, and 
never have been affected by it. Even Joachim, whom 
I think divine, never moved me. When Liszt plays 
anything pathetic, it sounds as if he had been through 
everything, and opens all one's wounds afresh. All 
that one has ever suffered comes before one again. 
Who was it that I heard say once, that years ago he 
saw Clara Schumann sitting in tears near the plat- 
form, during one of Liszt's performances? — Liszt 
knows well the influence he has on people, for 
he always fixes his eyes on some one of us when he 
plays, and I believe he tries to wring our hearts. 
When he plays a passage, and goes pearling down the 
key-board, he often looks over at me and smiles, to see 
whether I am appreciating it. 

* Liszt was born in 1811. 

(227) 



228 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

But I doubt if he feels any particular emotion him- 
self /when he is piercing you through with his rendering. 
He is simply hearing every tone, knowing exactly what 
effect he wishes to produce and how to do it. In fact, 
he is practically two persons in one — the listener and 
the performer. But what immense self-command that 
implies ! No matter how fast he plays you always 
feel that there is "plenty of time" — no need to be 
anxious ! You might as well try to move one of the 
pyramids as fluster him. Tausig possessed this re- 
pose in a technical way, and his touch was marvellous ; 
but he never drew the tears to your eyes. He could 
not wind himself through all the subtle labyrinths of 
the heart as Liszt does. 

Liszt does such bewitching little things ! The other 
day, for instance, Fraulein Gaul was playing some- 
thing to him, and in it were two runs, and after each 
run two staccato chords. She did them most beauti- 
fully, and struck the chords immediately after. " No, 
no," said Liszt, " after you make a run you must wait 
a minute before you strike the chords, as if in admir- 
ation of your own performance. You must pause, as 
if to say, ' How nicely I did that.' " Then he sat 
down and made a run himself, waited a second, and 
then struck the two chords in the treble, saying as he 
did so " Bra-i?o," and then he played again, struck 
the other chord, and said again " Bra-uo," and posi- 
tively, it was as if the piano had softly applauded ! 
That is the way he jolays everything. It seems as if 
the piano were speaking with a human tongue. 

Our class has swelled to about a dozen persons now, 



LISZT ANGRY. 229 



and a good many others come and play to him once or 
twice and then go. As I wrote to L. the other day, 
that dear little scholar of Henselt, Fraulein Kahrer, 
was one, but she only stayed three days. She was a 
most interesting little creature, and told some funny 
stories about Henselt, who she says has a most violent 
temper, and is very severe. She said that one day he 
was giving a lesson to Princess Katherina (whoever 
that is), and he was so enraged over her playing that 
he snatched away the music, and dashed it to the 
ground. The Princess, however, did not lose her 
equanimity, but folded her arms and said, " Who 
shall pick it up?" And he had to bend and restore 
it to its place. 

I've never seen Liszt look angry but once, but 
then he was terrific. Like a lion ! It was one day 
when a student from the Stuttgardt conservatory at- 
tempted to play the Sonata Appassionata. He had a 
good deal of technique, and a moderately good con- 
ception of it, but still he was totally inadequate to the 
work — and indeed, only a mighty artist like Tausig or 
Billow ought to attempt to play it. It was a hot after- 
noon, and the clouds had been gathering for a storm. 
As the Stuttgardter played the opening notes of 
the sonata, the tree-tops suddenly waved wildly, and a 
low growl of thunder was heard muttering in the dis- 
tance. " Ah," said Liszt, who was standing at the 
window, with his delicate quickness of perception, "a 
fitting accompaniment." (You know Beethoven wrote 
the Appassionata one night when he was caught in a 
thunder-storm.) If Liszt had only played it himself, 



230 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

the whole thing would have been like a poem. But he 
walked up and down the room and forced himself to 
listen, though he could scarcely bear it, I could see. 
A few times he pushed the student aside and played 
a few bars himself, and we saw the passion leap up 
into his face like a glare of sheet lightning. Any- 
thing so magnificent as it was, the little that he did 
play, and the startling individuality of his concep- 
tion, I never heard or imagined. I felt as if I did not 
know whether I were "in the body or out of the body." 
— Glorious Being ! He is a two-edged sword that 
cuts through everything. 

The Stuttgardter made some such glaring mistakes, 
not in the notes, but in rhythm, etc., that at last Liszt 
burst out with, ^^You come from Stuttgardt, and play 
like thatr and then he went on in a tirade asrainst con- 
servatories and teachers in general. He was like a 
thunder-storm himself. He frowned, and bent his head, 
and his long hair fell over his face, while the poor Stutt- 
gardter sat there like a beaten hound. Oh, it was awful ! 
If it had been I, I think I should have withered entirely 
away, for Liszt is always so amiable that the contrast was 
all the stronger. — "Aher das geht Sie nichts an (But this 
does not concern you)," said he, in a conciliatory tone, 
suddenly stopping himself and smiling. " Spielen Sie 
y^eiter (Play on)." — He meant that it was not at the 
student but at the conservatories that he had been 
angry. 

Liszt hasn't the nervous irritability common to artists, 
but on the contrary his disposition is the most exquisite 
and tranquil in the world. We have been there inces- 



ORDEAL OF LISZT'S LESSONS. 231 

santly, and I've never seen him ruffled except two or 
three times, and then he was tired and not himself, and 
it was a most transient thing. Wlien I think what a 
httle savage Tausig often was, and how cuttingly sarcastic 
Kullak could be at times, I am astonished that Liszt so 
rarely loses his temper. He has the power of turning 
the best side of every one outward, and also the most 
marvellous and uistant appreciation of what that side is. 
If there is anything in you, you may be sure that Liszt 
will know it. Whether he chooses to let you think he 
does, may^ however, be another matter. 



Weimar, July 15, 1873. 
Liszt is such an immense, inspiring force that one has 
to try and stride forward with him at double rate, 
even if with double expenditure, too ! To-day I'm more 
dead than ahve, as we had a lesson from him yesterday 
that lasted four hours. There were twenty artists present, 
aU of whom were anxious to play, and as he was in high 
good-humour, he played ever so much himself in between. 
It was perfectly magnificent, but exhausting and exciting 
to the last degree. When I come home from the lessons I 
fling myself on the sofa, and feel as if I never wanted to 
get up again. It is a fearful day's work every time I go 
to him. First, four hours' practice in the morning. 
Then a nervous, anxious feeling that takes away my appe- 
tite, and prevents me from eating my dinner. And then 
several hours at Liszt's, where one succession of concertos, 
fantasias, and all sorts of tremendous things are played. 
You never know before whom you must play there, for 



232 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



it is the musical headquarters of the world. Directors 
of conservatories, composers, artists, aristocrats, all come 
in, and you have to bear the brant of it as best you can. 
The first month I was here, when there were only five of 
us, it was quite another matter, but now the room is 
crowded every time. 

Liszt gave a matinee the other day at which I played 
a " Soiree de Vienne," by Tausig — awfully hard, but very 
brilliant and peculiar. I don't know how I ever got 
through it, for I had only been studying it a few days, 
and didn't even know it by heart, nor had I played it to 
Liszt. He only told me the evening before, too, about 
eight o'clock — "■ To-morrow I give a matinee ; bring your 
Soiree de Vienne." I rushed home and practiced till 
ten, and then I got up early the next morning and prac- 
ticed a few hours. The matinee was at eleven o'clock. 
First, Liszt played himself, then a young lady sang sev- 
eral songs, then there was a piece for j)iano and flute 
played by Liszt and a flutist, and then I came. I was 
just as frightened as I could be ! Metzdorf (my llus- 
sian friend) and Urspruch sat down by me to give me 
courage, and to turn the leaves, but Liszt insisted upon 
turning himself, and stood behind me and did it in his 
dexterous way. He says it is an art to turn the leaves 
properly ! He was so kind, and whenever I did anything 
well he would call out '^'charmant!" to encourage me. 
It is considered a great compliment to be asked to play 
at a matinee, and I don't know why Liszt paid it to me 
at the expense of others wlio were there who play far 
better than I do — among them a young lady from Nor- 
way, lately come, who is a most superb pianist. She 



LISZT COMPASSIONATE. 233 

-was a pupil of KuUak's, too, but it is four years since she 
left him, and she has been concertizing a good deal. 
Yesterday she played Schumann's A mmor concerto 
magnificently. I was surprised that Liszt had not 
selected her, but one can never tell what to expect 
from Liszt. With him " nothing is to be presumed on 
or despahed of " — as the proverb says. He is so full of 
moods and phases that you have to have a very sharp 
perception even to begin to understand him, and he 
can cut you all up fine without your ever guessing 
it. He rarely mortifies any one by an open snub, but 
what is perhaps worse, he manages to let the rest of the 
class know what he is thinking while the poor victim 
remams quite in darkness about it I — Yes, he can do very 
cruel things. 

After all, though, people generally have their own 
assurance to thank, or their own want of tact, when they 
do not get on with Liszt. If they go to him full of 
themselves, or expecting to make an impression on 
him, or merely for the sake of saying they have been 
with him, instead of presenting themselves to sit at his 
feet m humility, as they ought, and learn whatever he is 
willing to impart — he soon finds it out, and treats them 
accordingly. Some one once asked Liszt, what he would 
have been had he not been a musician. "The first 
diplomat in Europe," was the reply. With this Machia- 
vellian bent it is not surprising that he sometimes 
mdulges himself in playing off the conceited or the 
obtuse for the benefit of the bystanders. But the real 
basis of his nature is compassion. The bruised reed he 
does not break, nor the humble and docile heart despise! 



234 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

Franlein Gaul tells a characteristic story about the 
" Meister/' as we call Liszt. AVhen she first came to him 
a year or two ago, she brought him one day Chopin's B 
flat minor Scherzo — one of those stock pieces that 
every artist must learn, and that has also been thrummed 
to death by countless tyros. Liszt looked at it, and 
to her fright and dismay cried out in a fit of impatience, 
" No, I won't hear it !" and dashed it angrily into the 
corner. The next day he went to see her, apologized for 
his outburst of temper, and said that as a penance for it 
he would force himself to give her not one, but two or 
three lessons on the Scherzo, and in the most minute 
and careful manner — which accordingly he did ! Fancy 
any music teacher you ever heard of, so humbling him- 
self to a little girl of fifteen, and then remember that 
Tausig, the greatest of modern virtuosi, said of Liszt, 
" No mortal can measure himself with Liszt. He dwells 
upon a solitary height." 

But you need not fear that I am "giving up American 
standards" because I reverence Liszt so boundlessly. 
Everything is topsy-turvy in Europe according to our 
moral ideas, and they don't have what we call "men'* 
over here. But they do have artists that we cannot ap- 
proach ! It is as a Master in Art that I look at and write 
of Liszt, and his mere presence is to his pupils such 
stimulus and joy, that when I leave Jmn I shall feel I 
have Wt the best part of my life behind ! 



XH AFTER XX. 

Liszt's Compositions. His Playing and Teaching of Beetho- 

ven. His "Effects" in Piauo-playing. Excursion 

to Jena. A New Music Master. 

Weimar, July 24, 1873. 

Liszt is going away to-day. He was to have left sev- 
eral days ago, but the Emperor of Austria or Russia (I 
don't know which), came to visit the Grand Duke, and 
of course Liszt was obhged to be on hand and to spend 
a day with them. He is sucli a grandee himself that 
kings and emperors are quite matters of course to him. 
Never was- a man so courted and spoiled as he ! The 
Grand Duchess herself frequently visits him. But he 
never allows anyone to ask him to play, and even she 
doesn't venture it. That is the only point in which one 
sees Liszt's sense of his own greatness; otherwise his 
manner is remarkably unassuming. 

Liszt will be gone until the middle of August, and I 
shall be thankful to have a few wrecks of repose, and to 
be able to study more quietly. With him one is at high 
pressure all the time, and I have gained a good many 
more ideas from him than I can work up in a hurry. In 
fact, Liszt has revealed to me an entirely new idea of 
piano-playing. He is a wonderful composer, by the way, 
and that is what I was unprepared for in him. His ora- 
torio of Christus was brought out here this summer, and 
many strangers and celebrities came to hear it, Wagner 

(235) 



236 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

among others. It was magnificent, and one of the 
noblest, and decidedly the grandest oratorio that I ever 
heard. I've never had time to write home about it, for 
I felt that it required a dissertation in itself to do it jus- 
tice. I wish it could be performed in" Boston, for his 
orchestral and choral works, I am sorry to say, make 
their way very slowly in Germany. " Liszt helped Wag- 
ner," said he to me, sadly, "but who will help Liszt? 
though, compared with Opera it is as much harder for 
Oratorio to conquer a place as it is for a pianist to 
achieve success when compared to a singer." So he 
feels as if things were against him, though his heart and 
soul are so bound up in sacred music, that he told me it 
had become to him " the only thing worth living for." 
He really seems to care almost nothing for his piano- 
playing or for his piano compositions. 

And yet, what beauty is there in those compositions ! 
In Berlin I had always been taught that Liszt was a 
would-be composer, that he could not write a melody, 
that he had no originality, and that his compositions 
were merely glitter to dazzle the eyes of the public. 
How unjust and untrue have I found all these asser- 
tions to be ! Here I have an opportunity of hearing 
his piano works en masse, and day by day (since all 
the young artists are playing them), and my previous 
ideas have been entirely reversed. If Liszt is anytMng, 
he is original. One can see that at a glance, simply 
by imagining his music taken out. Where is there 
anything that would fill its place? When artists wish 
to make an "effect" and stir up the public — "to fuse 
the leaden thousands," as Chopin expressed it — what 



LISZT'S COMPOSITIONS. 237 

do they play? Liszt ! — Not only is his music brilliant 
— not only does he pour this wealth of pearls and dia- 
monds down the key-board, but his pieces rise to great 
climaxes, are grandiose in style, overleap all bound- 
aries, and whirl you away with the vehemence of pas- 
sion. Then what lightness of touch in the lesser mor- 
ceaux, where he is often the acme of tenderness, grace 
and fairy-like sportiveness, while in the melancholy 
ones, what subtle feeling after the emotions curled up 
in the remote corners of the heart ! They are so rich in 
harmony, so weird, so wild, that when you hear them 
you are like a sea-weed cast upon the bosom of the 
ocean. And then what could be more deep and poetic 
than Liszt's transcriptions of Schubert's and Wagner's 
songs? They are altogether exquisite. Finally, Liszt's 
compositions stand the severest test of merit. They 
wear well. You can play them a long time and never 
weary of them. In short, they embrace every element 
except the classic, and the question is, whether these 
airy or intense ideas that appeal to you through their 
veils of shimmer and sheen are not a sort of classics 
in their own way ! 

Liszt's Christus is arranged for piano for four hands, 
and I wish I had it, and also Billow's great edi- 
tion of Beethoven's sonatas — Oh ! you cannot conceive 
anything like Liszt's playing of Beethoven. When he 
plays a sonata it is as if the composition rose from the 
dead and stood transfigured before you. You ask 
yourself, " Did I ever play that ?" But it bores him 
so dreadfully to hear the sonatas, that though I've 
heard him teach a good many, I haven't had the cour- 



238 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

age to bring him one. I suppose he is sick of the sound 
of them, or perhaps it is because he feels obliged to be 
conscientious in teaching Beethoven ! 

When one of the young joianisfcs brings Liszt a so- 
nata, he puts on an expression of resignation and gen- 
erally begins a half protest which he afterward thinks 
better of. — " Well, go on," he will say, and then he 
proceeds to be very strict. He always teaches Bee- 
thoven with notes, which shows how scrupulous he is 
about him, for, of course, he knows all the sonatas by 
heart. He has Billow's edition, which he opens and 
lays on the end of the grand piano. Then as he walks 
up and down he can stop and refer to it and point out 
passages, as they are being played, to the rest of the 
class. Billow probably got many of his ideas from 
Liszt. One day when Mr. Orth was playing the Alle- 
gro of the Sonata Op. 110, Liszt insisted upon having 
it done in a particular way, and made him go back 
and repeat it over and over again. One line of it is 
particularly hard. Liszt made every one in the class 
sit down and try it. Most of them failed, which 
amused him. — "Ah, yes," said he, laughing, "^when I 
once begin to play the pedagogue I am not to be out- 
done !" and then he related as an illustration of his 
" pedagogism " a little anecdote of a former pupil of 
his, now an eminent artist. " I liked young M. very 
much," said he. " He played beautifully, but he was 
inclined to be lazy and to take things easily. One 
morning he brought me Chopin's E minor concerto, 
and he rather skimmed over that difficult passage in the 
middle of the first movement as if he hadn't taken the 



CHOPIN A MIMIC. 23^ 

trouble really to study it. His execution was not clean. 
So I thought I would give him a lesson, and I kept him 
playing those two pages over and over for an hour 
or two until he had mastered them. His arms 
must have been ready to break when he got 
through ! At the next lesson there was no M. I sent 
to know why he did not appear. He replied that he 
had been out hunting and had hurt his arm so that he 
could not play. At the lesson following he accord- 
ingly presented himself with his arm in a sling. But 
I always suspected it was a stratagem on his part to 
avoid playing, and that nothing really ailed him. He 
had had enough for one while/' added Liszt, with a 
mischievous smile. 

On Monday I had a most delightful tete-a-tete with 
Liszt, quite by chance. I had occasion to call upon 
him for something, and, strange to say, he was alone, 
sitting by his table and writing. Generally all sorts 
of people are up there. He insisted upon my staying a 
while, and we had the most amusing and entertaining 
conversation imaginable. It was the first time I ever 
heard Liszt really talk, for he contents himself mostly 
with making little jests. He is full of esprit. We 
were speaking of the faculty of mimicry, and he told 
me such a funny little anecdote about Chopin. He 
said that when he and Chopin were young together, 
somebody told him that Chopin had a remarkable 
talent for mimicry, and so he said to Chopin, "Come 
round to my rooms this evening and show off this 
talent of yours." So Chopin came. He had purchased 
a blonde wig (" I was very blonde at that time," said 



240 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

Liszt), which he put on, and got himself up in one of 
Liszt's suits. Presently an acquaintance of Liszt's came 
in, Chopin went to meet him instead of Liszt, and 
took off his voice and manner so perfectly, that 
the man actually mistook him for Liszt, and made an 
appointment with him for the next day — "and there I 
was in the room," said Liszt. Wasn't that remark- 
able? 

Another evening I was there about twilight and 
Liszt sat at the piano looking through a new oratorio, 
which had just come out in Paris upon " Christus," 
the same subject that his own oratorio was on. He 
asked me to turn for him, and evidently was not inter- 
ested, for he would skip whole pages and begin again, 
here and there. There was only a single lamp, and 
that rather a dim one, so that the room was all in 
shadow, and Liszt wore his Merlin-like aspect. I asked 
him to tell me how he produced a certain effect he 
makes in his arrangement of the ballad in Wagner's 
Flying Dutchman, He looked very "^?^a" as the 
French say, but did not reply. He never gives a direct 
answer to a direct question, " Ah," said I, " you won't 
tell." He smiled, and then immediately played the 
passage. It was a long arpeggio, and the effect he made 
was, as I had supposed, a pedal effect. He kept the 
pedal down throughout, and played the beginning of 
the passage in a grand rolling sort of manner, and 
then all the rest of it with a very pianissimo touch, 
and so lightly, that the continuity of the arpeggios was 
destroyed, and the notes seemed to be just strewn in, 
as if you broke a wreath of flowers and scattered them 



" STORMS ARE MY FORTE". 241 

according to your fancy. It is a most striking and 
beautiful effect, and I told him I didn't see how he 
ever thought of it. " Oh, I've invented a great many 
things/'said he,indifferently — "this,ioY instance/' — and 
he began playing a double roll of octaves in chromatics 
in the bass of the piano. It was very grand, and made 
the room reverberate. " Magnificent," said I. " Did you 
ever hear me do a storm ?" said he. " No." " Ah, you 
ought to hear me do a storm ! Storms are my forte P' 
Then to himself between his teeth, while a weird look 
came into his eyes as if he could indeed rule the blast, 
"Da KRACHEK die Bdume (Then crash the trees !)" 

How ardently I wished he would "play a storm," but 
of course he didn't, and he presently began to trifle 
over the keys in his blase style. I suppose he couldn't 
quite work himself up to the effort, but that look and 
tone told how Liszt would do it. — Alas, that we poor 
mortals here below should share so often the fate of 
Moses, and have only a glimpse of the Promised Land, 
and that without the consolation of being Moses ! 
But perhaps, after all, the vision is better than the 
reality. We see the whole land, even if but at a dis- 
tance, instead of being limited merely to the spot 
where our foot treads. 

Once again I saw Liszt in a similar mood, though 
his expression was this time comfortably rather than 
wildly destructive. It was when Fraulein Remmertz 
was playing his E flat concerto to him. There were 
two grand pianos in the room, and she was sitting at 
one, and he at the other, accompanying and interpo- 
lating as he felt disposed. Finally they came to a 
16 



342 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

place where there were a series of passages beginning 
with both hands in the middle of the piano, and going 
in opposite directions to the ends of the key-board, 
ending each time in a short, sharp chord. " Alles 
zum Fenster hinaus werfen (Pitch everything out of 
the window)," said he, in a cozy, easy sort of way, and 
he began playing these passages and giving every chord 
a whack as if he were splitting everything up and fling- 
ing it out, and that with such enjoyment, that you felt 
as if you'd like to bear a hand, too, in the work of gen- 
eral demolition ! But I never shall forget Liszt's look 
as he so lazily proposed to " pitch everything out of 
the window." It reminded me of the expression of a 
big tabby-cat as it sits and purrs away, blinking its 
eyes and seemingly half asleep, when suddenly — ! — ! 
out it strikes with both its claws, and woe be to what- 
ever is within its reach ! Perhaps, after all, the secret 
of Liszt's fascination is this power of intense and wild 
emotion that you feel he possesses, together with the 
most perfect control over it. 

Liszt sometimes strikes wrong notes when he plays, 
but it does not trouble him in the least. On the con- 
trary, he rather enjoys it. He reminds me of one of 
the cabinet ministers in Berlin, of whom it is said that 
he has an amazing talent for making blunders, but a 
still more amazing one for getting out of them and 
covering them up. Of Liszt the first part of this is 
not true, for if he strikes a wrong note it is simply be- 
cause he chooses to be careless. But the last part of 
it applies to him eminently. It always amuses him 
instead of disconcerting him when he comes down 



LISZT MAKING A MISTAKE. 243 

squarely wrong, as it affords him an opportunity of 
displaying his ingenuity and giving things such a turn 
that the false note will appear simply a key leading to 
new and unexpected beauties. An accident of this 
kind happened to him in one of the Sunday matinees, 
when the room was full of distinguished people and 
of his pupils. He was rolling up the piano in arpeg- 
gios in a very grand manner indeed, when he struck a 
semi-tone short of the high note upon which he had 
intended to end. I caught my breath and wondered 
whether he was going to leave us like that, in mid-air, 
as it were, and the harmony unresolved, or whether he 
would be reduced to the humiliation of correcting him- 
self like ordinary mortals, and taking the right chord. 
A half smile came over his face, as much as to say — 
" Don't fancy that this little thing disturbs me," — and 
he instantly went meandering down the piano in har- 
mony with the false note he had struck, and then rolled 
deliberately up in a second grand sweep, this time 
striking true. I never saw a more delicious piece of 
cleverness. It was so quick-witted and so exactly 
characteristic of Liszt. Instead of giving you a chance 
to say, " He has made a mistake," he forced you to 
say, " He has shown how to get out of a mistake." 

Another day I heard him pass from one piece into 
another by making the finale of the first one play the 
part of prelude to the second. So exquisitely were the 
two woven together that you could hardly tell where 
the one left off and the other began. — Ah me ! Such 
a facile grace ! JSfohody will ever equal him, with 
those rolling basses and those flowery trebles. And 



244 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

then his Adagios ! When you hear him in one of those, 
you feel that his playing has got to that point when 
it is purified from all earthly dross and is an exhala- 
tion of the soul that mounts straight to heaven. 



Weimar, August 8, 1873. 
The other day we all made an excursion to Jena, 
which is about three hours' drive from here. We went 
in carriages in a long train, and pulled up at a hotel 
named The Bear. There we took our second break- 
fast. There was to be a concert at five in a church, 
where some of Liszt's music was to be performed. 
After breakfast we went to the church, where Liszt 
met us, and the rehearsal took place. After the re- 
hearsal we went to dinner. We had three long tables 
which Liszt arranged to suit himself, his own place be- 
ing in the middle. He always manages every little 
detail with the greatest tact, and is very particular 
never to let two ladies or two gentlemen sit together, 
but always alternately a lady and a gentleman. " Im- 
'nier eine bunte Reilie maclien (Always have a little 
variety)," said he. The dinner was a very entertain- 
ing one to me, because I could converse with Liszt 
and hear all he said, as he was nearly opposite me. I 
was in very high spirits that day, and as Kellerman, 
Bendix and Urspruch were all near me, too, we had 
endless fun. We had new potatoes for dinner, boiled 
with their skins on, and Liszt threw one at me, and I 
caught it. There was another young artist there from 
Brussels named Gujickx, whom I didn't know, because 



aURICKX. 245 



he spoke only Frenchj and as I do not speak it, we 
had never exchanged words in the class. I wasn't 
paying any attention to him, therefore, when suddenly 
my left-hand neighbour touched my arm. I looked 
round and he handed me a flower made of bread 
" from Monsieur Gurickx." I wish you could have 
seen it ! It had the effect of a tube rose. Every little 
leaf and petal was as delicately turned as if nature 
herself had done it. The bread was fresh, and Gur- 
ickx had worked it between his fingers to the consist- 
ency of clay, and then modelled these little flowers 
which he stuck on to a stem. It was so artistically 
done, and it was such a dainty little thing to do, that 
I saw at once that he was interesting and that he pos- 
sessed that marvellous French taste. 

Since then we have become very good friends, and he 
is teaching me to speak French. He plays beautifully, 
and was trained in the famous Brussels conservatory, of 
which Dupont is the head. Servais also got his musical 
education there. They both advise me to go there for a 
year, as Dupont is a very great master indeed, and Brus- 
sels is the very home and centre of art and taste of 
every description- — a " little Paris " — but more earnest, 
more German. Gurickx went through the art-school in 
Brussels as well as the conservatory, so that he paints as 
well as plays, and he had quite a struggle with himself to 
decide to which art he should devote himself. His style 
is the grandiose and fiery. Rubinstein is his model, 
and he plays Liszt's Rhapsodies as I never heard any 
one else. He brings out all their power, brilliancy and 
careering wildness, and makes the greatest sensation of 



246 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

them. Such tremendous sweepmg chords ! Liszt him- 
self doesn't play the chords as well as Gurickx ; — perhaps 
because he does not care now to exert the strength. 

But to return to Jena. After dinner Liszt said, "Now 
we'll go to Paradise." So we put on our things, and 
proceeded to walk along the river to a place called Par- 
adise, on account of its loveliness. We passed the Uni- 
versity, on one corner of which is a tablet with "W. von 
Goethe" written against the wall of the room which 
Goethe occupied. It seemed strange to me to be passing 
the room of my beloved Goethe, with our equally 
beloved Liszt ! — This walk along the river was enchant- 
ing. The current was very rapid, and the willows were 
all blowing in the breeze. There is an odd triangular- 
shaped hill that rises on one side very boldly and abruptly, 
called the Fox's Head. The way was under a double 
row of tall trees, which met at the top and formed a 
green arch over our heads. It was all breeze and fresh- 
ness, and the sunlight struck picturesquely aslant the 
hill-sides. I started to walk with Liszt, but he was so 
surrounded that it was difficult to get near him, so I 
walked instead with an interesting young artist named 
0., who was at once extraordinarily ugly and extremely 
clever. 

After our walk we went to the concert, wnich was 
lovely, and then at seven we were all invited to tea at 
the house of a friend of Liszt's. He was a very tall 
man, and he had a very tall and hospitable daughter, 
nearly as big as himself, who received us very cordially. 
The tea was all laid on tables in the garden, and the 
sausages were cooking over a fire made on the grounds. 



A NEW MUSIC MASTER. 247 

We sat down pell-mell, anywhere, I next to Liszt, who 
kept putting things on my plate. When supper was 
over he retreated to a little summer house with some 
of his friends, to smoke. We sauntered round the grass 
plat in front of it until Liszt called us to come in and 
sit by him, which we did until he was ready to go. 

I've heard of a new music master lately. When my 
friend Miss B. was here, she told me that she had met a 
" Herr Director Deppe" in Berlin, after I left, and had 
told him all about me and my struggle to conquer the 
piano. He seemed very much interested and said, "0, 
if she had only come to me ! Z would have helped her," 
and from all I can hear I think he must be the man 
for me. He is interested in Sherwood, w^io used to 
talk to me about him last winter. Sherwood says he 
is wholly disinterested and devoted to art, and lives 
entirely in music, and that he is a noble-hearted man, 
and the " most musical person he ever met." Sher- 
wood often wavers between him and Kullak, and Deppe 
would like to teach Sherwood if he could, simply out 
of interest for him. — Deppe has a pupil whom he 
has trained entirely himself, and whom he is going to 
bring out next winter. Sherwood says he never heard 
anything so beautiful as her playing. She is spending 
the summer near Deppe, and he hears her play the 
programme she is going to give in Berlin next winter, 
every day. Think what immense certainty that must 
give! 



CHAPTER XXI. 

Liszt's Playing. Tausig. Excursion to Sondershausen. 

Weimar, August 23, 1873. 

Liszt has returned from his trip, and I have played 
to him twice this week, and am to go again on Mon- 
day. He praised me very much on Tuesday, and said 
I played admirably. I knew he was pleased, because 
whenever he corrected me he would say, "N'ein, Kind- 
chen^^ in such a gentle way ! " Ki7id^^ is the German 
for child, and ^'Kindchen^^ is a diminutive, and when- 
ever he calls you that you can tell he has a leaning 
toward you. 

This week is the first time that I have been able to 
play to him without being nervous, or that my fingers 
have felt warm and natural. It has been a fearful 
ordeal, truly, to play there, for not only was Liszt him- 
self present, but such a crowd of artists, all ready to 
pick flaws in your playing, and to say, " She hasn't got 
much talent." I am so glad that I stayed until Liszt's 
return, for now the rush is over, and he has much 
more time for those of us who are left, and plays a 
great deal more himself. Yesterday he played us a 
study of Paganini's, arranged by himself, and also his 
Campanella. I longed for M., as she is so fond of 
the Campanella. Liszt gave it Avith a velvety softness, 
clearness, brilliancy and pearliness of touch that was 
inimitable. And oh, his grace ! Nobody can com- 

(248) 



THE PIANIST MOSCHELES. 24» 

pare with him ! Everybody else sounds heavy beside 
him ! 

However, I have felt- some comfort in knowing that 
it is not Liszt's genius alone that makes him such a 
player. He has gone through such technical studies 
as no one else has except Tausig, perhaps. He plays 
everything under the sun in the way of Etuden — ^has 
played them, I mean. On Tuesday I got him talk- 
ing about the composers who were the fashion when he 
was a young fellow in Paris — Kalkbrenner, Herz,. 
etc. — and I asked him if he could not play us some- 
thing by Kalkbrenner. " yes ! I must have a few 
things of Kalkbrenner's in my head still," and then ha 
played part of a concerto. Afterward he went on to 
speak of Herz, and said : " I'll play you a little study 
of Herz's that is infamously hard. It is a stupid little 
theme," and then he played the theme, " but now pay 
attention." Then he played the study itself. It was 
a most hazardous thing, where the hands kept crossing 
continually with great rapidity, and striking notes in 
the most difficult positions. It made us all laugh ; and 
Liszt hit the notes every time, though it was disgust- 
ingly hard, and as he said himself, " he used to get all 
in a heat over it." He had evidently studied it so 
well that he could never forget it. He went on to 
speak of Moscheles and of his compositions. He said 
that when between thirty and forty years of age, 
Moscheles played superbly, but as he grew older he 
became too old-womanish and set in his ways — and 
then he took off Moscheles, and played his Etiaden in. 
his style. It was very funny. But it showed how 



250 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

Liszt has studied everything, and the universality of 
liis knowledge, for he knows Tausig's and Rubinstein's 
studies as well as Kalkbrenner and Herz. There can- 
not be many persons in the world who keep up with 
the whole range of musical literature as he does. 

Liszt loved Tausig as his own child, and is always 
delighted when we play any of his music. His 
death was an awful blow to Liszt, for he used to say, 
" He will be the inheritor of my playing." I suppose he 
thought he would live again in him, for he always 
says, " Never did such talent come under my hands." 
I would give anything to have seen them together, for 
Tausig was a wonderfully clever and captivating 
man, and I can imagine he must have fascinated 
Liszt. They say he was the naughtiest boy that ever 
was heard of, and caused Liszt no end of trouble and 
vexation ; but he always forgave him, and after the 
vexation was past Liszt would pat him on the head 
and say, "Carlchen, entweder wirst da ein grosser 
Lump oder ein grosser 3feister (You'll turn out 
cither a great blockhead or a great master)." That is 
Liszt all over. He is so indulgent that in considera- 
tion of talent he will forgive anything. 

Tausig's father, who was himself a music-master, 
took him to Liszt when he was fourteen years old, 
hoping that Liszt would receive the little marvel as a 
pupil and protege. 

But Liszt would not even hear the boy play. " I 
have had," he declared positively, " enough of child 
prodigies. They never come to much." Tausig's father 
apparently acquiesced in the reply, but while he and 



LISZT IN CONCERT. 251 



Liszt were drinking wine and smoking together, lie 
managed to smuggle the child on to the piano-stool 
behind Liszt, and signed to him to begin to play. The 
little Tausig plunged into Chopin's A flat Polonaise 
with such fire and boldness that Liszt turned his eagle 
head, and after a few bars cried, " I take him !" I 
heard Liszt say once that he could not endure child 
prodigies. "I have no time," said he, "for these artists 
die WEEDEK sollen (that are to be) !" 



Weimak, Septemeber 9, 1873. 

This week has been one of great excitement in 
Weimar, on account of the wedding of the son of the 
Grand Duke. All sorts of things have been going on, 
and the Emperor and Empress came on from Berlin. 
There have been a great many rehearsals at the theatre 
of different things that were played, and of course 
Liszt took a prominent part in the arrangement of 
the music. He directed the Ninth Symphony, and 
played twice himself with orchestral accompaniments. 
One of the pieces he played was Weber's Polonaise in 
E major, and the other was one of his own Khapsodies 
Hongroises. Of these I was at the rehearsal. When 
he came out on the stage the applause was tremend- 
ous, and enough in itself to excite and electrify one. 
I was enchanted to have an opportunity to hear 
Liszt as a concert player. The director of the orches- 
tra here is a beautiful pianist and composer himself, 
as well as a splendid conductor, but it was easy to see 



252 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

that he had to get all his wits together to follow Liszt, 
who gave full rein to his imagination, and let the 
tempo fluctuate as he felt inclined. As for Liszt, he 
scarcely looked at the keys, and it was astounding to 
see his hands go rushing up and down the piano and 
perform passages of the utmost rapidity and difficulty, 
while his head was turned all the while towards the 
orchestra, and he kept up a running fire of remarks 
with them continually. "You violins, strike in sharp 
here." " You trumpets, not too loud there," etc. He 
did everything with the most immense aplomb, and 
without seeming to pay any attention to his hands, 
which moved of themselves as if they were independ- 
ent beings and had their own brain and everything ! 
He never did the same thing twice alike. If it were a 
scale the first time, he would make it in double or 
broken thirds the second, and so on, constantly sur- 
prising you with some new turn. While you were ad- 
miring the long roll of the wave, a sudden spray 
would be dashed over you, and make you catch your 
breath ! No, never was there such a player ! The 
nervous intensity of his touch takes right hold of you. 
When he had finished everybody shouted and clapped 
their hands like mad, and the orchestra kept up such a 
fanfare of applause, that the din was quite overpow- 
ering. Liszt smiled and bowed, and walked off the 
stage indifferently, not giving himself the trouble to 
come back, and presently he quietly sat down in the 
parquet, and the rehearsal proceeded. The concert it- 
self took place at the court, so that I did not hear it. 
Metzdorf was there, however, and he said that Liszt 



ANOTHER EXCURSION. 253 

played fabulously, of course, but that lie was not as 
inspired as he was in the morning, and did not make 
the same effect. 



Weimak, September 15, 1873. 

The other day an excursion was arranged to Son- 
dershausen, a town about three hours' ride from Wei- 
mar in the cars. There was to be a concert there in 
honour of Liszt, and a whole programme of his music 
was to be performed. About half a dozen of the 
*^ Lisztianer " — as the Weimarese dub Liszt's pupils — 
agreed to go, I, of course, being one. Liszt himself, 
the Countess von X. and Count S. were to lead the 
party. The morning we started was one of those per- 
fect autumnal days when it is a delight simply to live. 

After breakfast I hurried off to the station, where 
I met the others, everybody being in the highest spirits. 
Liszt and his titled friends travelled in a first class 
carriage by themselves. The rest of us went second 
class, in the next carriage behind. We were very gay 
indeed, and the time did not seem long till we arrived 
at Sondershausen, where we exchanged our seats in the 
cars for seats in an omnibus, and drove to the princi- 
pal hotel. There were not sufficient accommodations 
for us all, owing to the number of strangers who had 
come to the festival, so Mrs. S. and I went to a smaller 
hotel in a more distant part of the town to engage 
rooms, intending to return and dine with Liszt and 
the rest. Just as our noisy vehicle clattered up to the 
inn and some of the gentlemen jumped out to arrange 
matters, the solemn strains of a chorale were heard from 



254 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

a church close by, with its grand and rolling organ 
accompaniment. Somehow it made me feel sad to hear 
it, and a sense of the transitoriness of things came 
over me. It seemed like one of those voices from the 
other world that call to us now and then. 

After we had engaged our rooms, we drove back to 
the hotel where Liszt was staying, and where we were 
to dine immediately. It was in the centre of the town, 
and directly opposite the palace, which rose boldly on 
a sort of eminence with great flights of stone steps 
sweeping down to the road on each side. It looked 
quite imposing. An avenue wound up the hill to the 
right of it. In the dining-room of the hotel a long 
table was spread and all the places were carefully set. 
My place was next Count S. and not far from Liszt. 
So I was very well seated. Everybody began talking 
at once the minute dinner was served, as they always 
do at table in Germany. Toward the close of it were 
the usual nuniber of toasts in honour of Liszt, to which 
he responded in rather a bored sort of way. I don't 
wonder he gets tired of them, for it is always the same 
thing. He did not seem to be in his usual spirits, and 
had a fatigued air. 

After dinner he said, " Now let us go and see Frau- 
lein Fichtner." Fraulein Fichtner was the young lady 
who was going to play his concerto in A major at the 
concert that evening. She is a well-known pianist in 
Germany, and is both pretty and brilliant. We started 
in a procession, which is the way one always walks with 
Liszt. It reminds me of those snow-balls the boys roll 
up at home — the crowd gathers as it proceeds ! When 



LISZT'S CONCERTO IN A. 255 

we got to the house we entered an obscure corridor 
and began to find our way up a dark and narrow stair- 
case. Some one struck a wax match. " Good !" called 
out Liszt, in his sonorous voice. "Leuchten Sie voraus 
(Light us up)." When we got to the top we pulled 
the bell and were let in by Fraulein Fichtner's mother. 
Fraulein Fichtner herself looked no ways dismayed at 
the number of her guests, though we had the air of 
coming to storm the house. She gaily produced all 
the chairs there were, and those who could not find a 
seat had to stand ! She was in Weimar for a few days 
this summer. So we had all met her before, and I 
had once heard her play some duets by Schumann with 
Liszt, who enjoyed reading with " Pauline," as he calls 
her. It is to her that Raff has dedicated his exquisite 
"Maerchen (Fairy story)." She is a sparkling bru- 
nette, with a face full of intelligence. They say she 
writes charming little poems and is gifted in various 
ways. Not to tire her for the concert we only stayed 
about twenty minutes. 

Going back, Liszt indulged in a little graceful badi- 
nage apropos of the concerto. You know he has 
written two concertos. The one in E flat is much 
played, but this one in A very rarely. It is exceedingly 
difficult and is one of the few of his compositions that 
it interests Liszt to know that people play. " I should 
write it otherwise if I wrote it now," he explained to 
me as we were walking along. " Some passages are 
very troublesome {haecklig) to execute. I was younger 
and less experienced when I composed it," he added, 
with one of those illuminating smiles " like the flash 
of a dagger in the sun," as Lenz says. 



256 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

When we reached the hotel everybody went in to 
take a siesta — that " Mittags-Schlaf " which is law in 
Germany. I did not wish to sleep and felt like ex- 
ploring the old town. So Count S. and I started on 
a walk. Sondershausen is a dreamy, sleepy place, with 
so little life about it that you hardly realize there are 
any people there at all. It is pleasantly situated, and 
gentle hills and undulations of land are all about it, 
but it seems as if the town had been dead for a long 
time and this were its grave over which one was quietly 
walking. We took the road that wound past the 
castle. It was embowered in trees, and behind the 
castle were gardens and conservatories. The road 
descended on the other side, and we followed it till 
we came unexpectedly upon a little circular park. 
Such a deserted, widowed little park it seemed ! Not a 
soul did Ave encounter as we wandered through its paths. 
Bordering them were great quantities of berry-laden 
snow-berry bushes, of which I am very fond. The 
park had a sort of rank and unkempt aspect, as if it 
were abandoned to itself. The very stream that went 
through it flowed sluggishly along, and as if it hadn't 
any particular object in life. — I enjoyed it very much, 
and it was very restful to walk about it. One felt 
there the truth of K.'s favourite saying, " It doesn't 
make any difference. Nothing makes any difference." 

Count S. rattled on, but I didn't hear more than 
half of what he said. He is a pleasure-loving man of 
the world, fond of music, but a perfect materialist, 
and untroubled by the "souffle vers le heau^^ which tor- 
ments so many people. At the same time he is ap- 



THE SONDERSHAUSEN ORCHESTRA. 257 

preciative and very amusing, and one has no chance 
to indulge in melancholy with Mm. We saun- 
tered about till late in the af ernoon, and then returned 
to the hotel for coffee before going to the concert, 
which began at seven. The concert hall was behind 
the palace and seemed to form a part of it. Liszt, 
the Countess von X., and Count S. sat in a box, aris- 
tocratic-fashion. The rest of us were in the parquet. 
I was amazed at the orchestra, which was very large 
and played gloriously. It seemed to me as fine as that 
of the Gewandhaus in Leipsic, though I suppose it 
cannot be. — "Why has no one ever mentioned this 
orchestra to me?" I asked of Kellermann, who sat 
next, " and how is it one finds such an orchestra in 
such a place ?" " Oh," said he, " this orchestra is very 
celebrated, and the Prince of Sondershausen is a great 
patron of music." This is the way it is in Oermany. 
Every now and then one has these surprises. You 
never know when you are going to stumble upon a 
jewel in the most out-of-the-way corner. 

We were all greatly excited over FrUulein Fichtner's 
playing, and it seemed very jolly to be behind the 
scenes, as it were, and to have one of our own num- 
ber performing. We applauded tremendously when 
she came out. She was not nervous in the least, but 
began Avith great aplomb, and played most beautifully. 
The concerto made a generally dazzling and difficult 
impression upon me, but did not "take hold" of me 
particularly. I do not know how Liszt was pleased 
with her rendering of it, for I had no opportunity of 
asking him. She also played his Fourteenth Rhapsody 



258- MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

with orchestral accompaniment in most bold and 
dashing style. Fi'auleiji Fichtner is more in the bra- 
vura than in the sentimental line, and she has a cer- 
tain breadth, grasp, and freshness. The last piece on 
the programme was Liszt's Choral Symphony, which 
was magnificent. The chorus came at the end of it, 
as in the Ninth Symphony. Mrs. S. said she was 
familiar with it from having heard Thomas's orches- 
tra play it in New York. — That orchestra, by!the way, 
from what I hear, seems to have developed into some- 
thing remarkable. It is a great thing for the musical 
education of the country to have such an organiza- 
tion travelling every winter. And what a revelation 
is an orchestra the first time one hears it, even if it 
be but a poor one ! — Music come bodily down from 
Heaven ! And here in their musical darkness, the 
Americans in the provinces are having an orchestra of 
the very highest excellence burst upon them in full 
splendour. What could be more American? They 
always have the best or none ! 

At nine o'clock in the evening the concert was 
over, and we all returned to the hotel for supper. We 
were all desperately hungry after so much music and 
enthusiasm. Everybody wanted to be helped at 
once, and the waiters were nearly distracted. Count 
S. sat next me and was very funny. He kept 
rapping the table like mad, but without any success. 
Finally he exclaimed, " Jetzt geK ich auf Jagd 
(Now Tm going hunting) !" and sprang up from 
his chair, rushed to the other end of the dining- 
room, possessed himself of some dishes the waiters 



AN UNHAPPY COUNTESS. 259 

were helping, and returned in triumph. I couldn't 
help laughing, and he made a great many jokes at the 
expense of the waiters and everybody else. I could 
not hear any of Liszt's conversation, which I regret- 
ted, but he seemed in a quiet mood. I do not think 
he is the same when he is with aristocrats. He must 
be among artists to unsheathe his sword. When he is 
with "swells," he is all grace and polish. He seems only 
to toy with his genius for their amusement, and he is 
never serious. At least this is as far as my observation 
of him goes on the few occasions I have seen him in 
the beau monde\ The presence of the proud Countess 
von X. at Sondershausen kept him, as it were, at a dis- 
tance from everybody else, and he was not overflowing 
with fun and gayety as he was at Jena. She, of course, 
did not go with us to see FrSulein Fichtner, which 
was fortunate. After supper one and all went to 
bed early, quite tired out with the day's excitement. 

This haughty Countess, by the way, has always had 
a great fascination for me, because she looks like a 
woman who " has a history." I have often seen her at 
Liszt's matinees, and from what I hear of her, she is 
such a type of woman as I suppose only exists in 
Europe, and such as the heroines of foreign novels 
are modelled upon. She is a widow, and in appearance 
is about thirty-six or eight years old, of medium 
height, slight to thinness, but exceedingly graceful. 
She is always attired in black, and is utterly careless in 
dress, yet nothing can conceal her innate elegance of 
figure. Her face is pallid and her hair dark. She 
makes an impression of icy coldness and at the same 



360 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

time of tropical heat. The pride of Lucifer to the 
world in general — entire abandonment to the individ- 
ual. I meet her often in the park, as she walks along 
trailing her " sable garments like the night," and sur- 
rounded by her four beautiful boys — as Count S. 
says, " each handsomer than the other." They have 
such romantic faces ! Dark eyes and dark curling hair. 
The eldest is about fourteen and the youngest five. 

The little one is too lovely, with his brown curls 
hanging on his shoulders ! I never shall forget the 
supercilious manner in which the Countess took, out 
her eye-glass and looked me over as I passed her one 
day in the park. Weimar being such a '^kleines N'est 
(little nest)," as Liszt calls it, every stranger is immedi- 
ately remarked. Slie waited till I got close up, then 
deliberately put up this glass and scrutinized me 
from head to foot, then let it fall with a half -dis- 
dainful, half -indifferent air, as if the scrutiny did not 
reward the trouble. — I was so amused. Her arrogance 
piques all Weimar, and they never cease talking 
about her. I can never help wishing to see her in a 
fashionable toilet. If she is so distinguee in rather less 
than ordinary dress, what v^ould she be in a Parisian 
costume? I mean as to grace, for she is not pretty. — 
But as a psychological study, she is more interesting, 
perhaps, as she is. She always seems to me to be grad- 
ually going to wreck — a burnt-out volcano, with her 
own ashes settling doAvn upon her and covering her 
up. She is very highly educated, and is preparing her 
eldest son for the university herself. What a subject 
she would have been for a Balzac ! 



WRITING CANONS. 261 

We stayed over the next day in Sondershausen, as 
there was to be another orchestral concerb — this time 
with a miscellaneous programme. Fraulein Ficht- 
ner had already departed, but the first violinist played 
Mendelssohn's famous concerto for violin. — Not in 
Wilhelmj's masterly style, but extremely well. We 
took the train for Weimar about five P. M. Going 
back I was in the carriage with Liszt. He sat opposite 
me, and gradually began to talk. The conversation 
turned upon Weitzmann, my former harmony teacher, 
who, you remember, was so determined to make me 
learn. Liszt remarked upon the extent of his knowl- 
edge and said, " If I were not so old I should like to 
go to school again to Weitzmann." He was talking 
to Weitzmann one day, he said, and Weitzmann pro- 
posed to him that he should write a canon. " I sat 
down and worked over it a good while, but finally gave 
it up. — I know not why, but I never had any success in 
writing canons, Weitzmann then sat down, and in 
half an hour had produced two excellent ones." He 
gave this as an instance of Weitzmann's readiness. — A 
canon, you know, is a sort of musical puzzle. The 
right hand plays tlie theme. The left hand takes it 
up a little later and imitates the right. The two 
interweave, and the theme forms the melody and the 
accompaniment at the same time, according as it is 
played by the right or left hand — something on the 
principle of singing rounds. The difficulty consists 
in avoiding monotony with this continual itera- 
tion of the theme, which can be brought on at dif- 
ferent intervals^ inverted, etc., at will. It seems to be 



262 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

more a mathematical than a musical style of compo- 
sition. I should suppose that Bach could fire oft* can- 
ons without end ! He developed it in every imagin- 
able form. — Liszt, however, is of rather a different 
school ! 

We got back to Weimar about eight in the evening, 
and this delicious excursion, like all others, had to end. 
But the quiet old town, with its musical name and its 
great orchestra, will long remain in my memory. 

Adieu, Sondershausen ! 



CHAPTER XXII. 

Farewell to Liszt ! German Conservatories and their Methods. 
Berlin Again. Liszt and Joachim. 

Weimar, September 24, 1873. 
We had our last lesson from Liszt a few days 
ago, and he leaves Weimar next week. He was so hur- 
ried with engagements the last two times that he was 
not able to give us much attention. I played my Eubin- 
stein concerto. He accompanied me himself on a 
second piano. We were there about six o'clock P. M. 
Liszt was out, but he had left word that if we came we 
were to wait. About seven he came in, and the lamps 
were lit. He was in an awful humour, and I never saw 
him so out of spirits. " How is it with our concerto ?" 
said he to me, for he had told me the time before 
to send for the second piano accompaniment, and he 
would play it with me. I told him that unfortunately 
there existed no second piano part. "Then, child, 
you've fallen on your head, if you don't know that at 
least you must have a second copy of the concerto !" 
I told him I knew it by heart. "Oh !" said he, in a 
mollified tone. So he took my copy and played the 
orchestra part which is indicated above the piano part, 
and I played without notes. I felt inspired, for the 
piano I was at was a magnificent grand that Steinway 
presented to Liszt only the other day. Liszt was 
seated at another grand facing me, and the room was 

(263) 



264 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

dimly illuminated by one or two lamps. A few artists 
were sitting about in the shadow. It was at the twi- 
light hour, " Vheure du mystere,^^ as the poetic Gurickx 
used to say, and in short, the occasion was perfect, 
and couldn't happen so again. You see we always 
have our lessons in the afternoon, and it was a mere 
chance tliat it was so late this time. So I felt as if I 
were in an electric state. I had studied the piece so 
much that I felt perfectly sure of it, and then with 
Liszt's splendid accompaniment and his beautiful face 
to look over to — it was enough to bring out every- 
thing there was in one. If he had only been himself 
I should have had nothing more to desire, but he was 
in one of his bitter, sarcastic moods. However, I went 
rushing on to the end — like a torrent plunging 
down into darkness, I might say — for it was the end, 
too, of my lessons with Liszt ! 

Li answer to your musical questions, I don't know 
that there is much to be told about conservatories of 
which you are not aware. The one in Stuttgardt is 
considered the best; and there the pupils are put 
through a regular graded method, beginning with 
learning to hold the hand, and with the simplest five 
finger exercises. There are certain things, studies, etc., 
which all the scholars have to learn. That was also 
the case in Tausig's conservatory. First we had to 
go through Cramer, then through the Gradus ad Par- 
nassum, then through Moscheles,then Chopin, Henselt, 
Liszt and Rubinstein. I haven't got farther than 
Chopin, myself, but when I went to Kullak I studied 
Czerny's School for Virtuosen a whole year, which is 



SCHOOLING THE FINGERS. 265 

the book he " swears by." I'm going on with them this 
winter. It takes years to pass through them all, but 
when you have finished them, you are an artist. 

I think myself the " Schule des Virtuosen" is indis- 
pensable, much as I loathe it. First, there is nothing 
like it for giving you a technique. It consists of pas- 
sages, generally about two lines in length, which 
Czerny has the face to request you to play from twenty 
to thirty times successively. You can imagine at that 
rate how long it takes you to play through one page ! 
Tedious to the last degree ! But it greatly equalizes 
and strengthens the fingers, and makes your exe- 
cution smooth and elegant. It teaches you to take 
your time, or as the Germans call it, it gives you 
^' Ruhe (repose)," the grand sine qua non ! You learn 
to "play out" your passages (" aus-spielen" as Kullak 
is always saying) ; that is, you don't hurry or blur over 
the last notes, but play clearly and in strict time to 
the end of the passage. I saw Lebert, the head of 
the Stuttgardt conservatory, here this summer, and 
had several long conversations with him, and he told 
me he considered Bach the best study, and put the 
Well-Tempered Clavichord at the foundation of 
ever3d:hing. The Stuttgardters study Bach every day, 
and I think it a capital plan myself. I have begun do- 
ing it, too. It was a great thing for me, that quarter 
of Bach that I took with Mr. Paine in Cambridge, 
and was one of your inspirations, when you "builded 
better than you knew." — I never savj a person with 
such an instinct to find out the ris^ht thins: as you 
have ! If it hadn't been for that, I should never have 



266 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

got so familiarized with Bach, or got into the way 
of studying him for myself, as I have done a great 
deal. It is as great for the fingers as it is " good for 
the soul." Lenz, in his sketch of Chopin, says that 
Chopin told him when he prepared for a concert he 
never studied his own compositions at all, but shut 
himself up and practiced Bach ! 

However, I suppose it comes to the same thing in 
the end if one studies Bach, Czerny, or Gradus, only 
you must keep at one of them all the while. The 
grand thing is to have each of your five fingers go 
" dum, dum," an equal number of times, which is the 
principle of all three ! Tausig was for Gradus, you 
know, and practiced it himself every day. He used to 
transpose the studies in different keys, and play just 
the same in the left hand as in the right, and enhance 
their difficulties in every way, but I always found 
them hard enough as they were written ! Bach 
strengthens the fingers and makes them independent. 
Czerny equalizes them and gives an easy and ele- 
gant execution, and Gradus is not only good for fin- 
ger technique — it trains the arm and wrist also, and 
gives a much more powerful execution. 

I think that in all conservatories they have at least 
six lessons a week, two solo, two in reading at sight, 
and two in composition. Then there are often lec- 
tures held on musical subjects by some of the Profes- 
sors, or by some one who is engaged for that purpose. 
All large conservatories have an orchestra, composed 
generally out of the scholars themselves, with a few 
professionals hired to eke out deficiencies. With this 



THE STUTTGARDT CONSERVATORY. 267 

the best piano scholars play their concertos once a 
month, or once in six weeks. The number of public 
representations varies in every conservatory. In the 
Hoch Schule in Berlin they have two yearly in the 
Sing-Akademie. Kullak professes to have one, but he 
has so little interest in his scholars that he omits it 
when it suits his convenience. In Stuttgardt I be- 
lieve they have four. I don't know much about the in- 
terior arrangements of Kullak's conservatory, because 
I only went to his own class. I lived too far away to 
attempt the theory and composition class. Liszt says 
that Kullak's jpupils are always the best schooled of 
any, which rather surprised me, because there is a cer- 
tain intimacy between him and Stuttgardt, and he 
always recommends scholars to the Stuttgardt con- 
servatory. 

The Stuttgardters do have immense technique, 
and I think they are better taught how to study. It 
strikes me as if Stuttgardt were the place to get the 
machine in working order, but I rather think that 
Kullak trains the head more. There is a young 
American here named Orth, who studied two years 
with Kullak, then he spent a year in Stuttgardt, and 
now he is going to return to Kullak. He says he 
thinks that not Lebert, but Pruckner, is the real back- 
bone of the Stuttgardt conservatory, but that even 
with him one year is sufficient. Fraulein Graul, on the 
contrary, with whom Lebert has taken the greatest pos- 
sible pains, thinks him a magnificent master, and cer- 
tainly he has developed her admirably. It is probably 
with him as with them all. If they take a fancy to 



2QS MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

you, they will do a great deal for you ; if not, noth- 
ing! Liszt is no exception to this rule. I've seen 
him snub and entirely neglect young artists of the 
most remarkable talent and virtuosity, merely because 
they did not please him personally. 



Berlin, October 8, 1873. 

Voila! as Liszt always says. Here I am back again 
in old Berlin, and if I ever felt " like a cat in a strange 
garret," I do now. I left dear little Weimar two days 
ago, and parted from our adored Liszt a week ago to- 
day. He has gone to Rome. N'ever did I feel leaving 
-anybody or any place so much, and Berlin seems to 
me like a great roaring wilderness. The distances are 
so endless here. You either have to kill yourself walk- 
ing, or else spend a fortune in droschkies. The 
houses all seem to me as if they had grown. There is 
an immense number of new ones going up on all sides, 
and the noise, and the crowd, and the confusion are 
enough to set one distracted, after the idyllic life I've 
been leading. Ah, well ! J^s war ehen zu schon! (It 
was too beautiful !) 

Yesterday and to-day I've been looking about for a 
new boarding-place. I've had two invitations to din- 
ner since my return, but everybody and everything 
seems so dull and stupid, prosaic and tedious to me, 
that I declined them both, and haven't given any of 
my friends my address until I have had a little time 
to let myself down gradually from the delights of 
Weimar. 



LISZT AND JOACHIM. 269 

Liszt was kindness itself when the time came to say 
good-bye, but I could scarcely get out a word, nor 
could I even thank him for all he had done for me. 
I did not wish to break down and make a scene, as I 
felt I should if I tried to say anything. So I fear he 
thought me rather ungrateful and matter-of-course, for 
he couldn't know that I was feeling an excess of emo- 
tion which kept me silent. I miss going to him inex- 
pressibly, and although I heard my favourite Joachim 
last night, even he paled before Liszt. He is on the- 
violin what Liszt is on the piano, and is the only artist 
worthy to be mentioned in the same breath with him. 

Like Liszt, he so vitalizes everything that I have to 
take him in all over again every time I hear him. I 
am always astonished, amazed and delighted afresh, 
and even as I listen I can hardly believe that the man 
can play so ! But Liszt, in addition to his marvellous 
playing, has this unique and imposing personality, 
whereas at first Joachim is not specially striking. 
Liszt's face is all a play of feature, a glow of fancy, a 
blaze of imagination, whereas Joachim is absorbed in 
his violin, and his face has only an expression of fine 
discrimination and of intense solicitude to produce his 
artistic effects. Liszt never looks at his instrument ; 
Joachim never looks at anything else. Liszt is a com- 
plete actor who intends'to carry away the public, who 
never forgets that he is before it, and who behaves ac- 
cordingly. Joachim is totally oblivious of it. Liszt 
subdues the people to him by the very way he walks 
on to the stage. He gives his proud head a toss, 
throws an electric look out of his eagle eye, and seats 



270 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



himself with an air as much as to say, " Now I am 
going to do just what I please with you, and you are 
nothing but puppets subject to my will." He said to 
us in the class one day, " When you come out on the 
stage, look as if you didn't care a rap for the audience, 
and as if you knew more than any of them. That's 
the way I used to do. — Didn't that provoke the critics 
though !" he added, with an ineffable look of ma- 
licious mischief. So you see his principle, and that 
was precisely the way he did at the rehearsal in the 
theatre at Weimar that I wrote to you about. Joachim, 
on the contrary, is the quiet gentleman-artist. He 
advances in the most unpretentious way, but as he ad- 
justs his violin he looks his audience over with the 
calm air of a musical monarch, as much as to say, " I 
repose wholly on my art, and I've no need of any 
' ways or manners.' " In reality I admire Joachim's 
principle the most, but there is something indescrib- 
ably fascinating and subduing about Liszt's willful- 
ness. You feel at once that he is a great genius, and 
that you are nothing but his puppet, and somehow you 
take a base delight in the humiliation ! The two 
men are intensely interesting, each in his own way, 
but they are extremes. 

[Beside his playing and his compositions, what Liszt 
has done for music and for musicians, and why, there- 
fore, he stands so pre-eminently the greatest and the best 
beloved master in the musical world, may appear to the 
general reader in the following extract taken from a 
translation in Dwight's Journal, Oct. 23, 1880, of "Franz 
Liszt, a Musical Character Portrait " by La Mara, in the 



LISZT'S NOBLENESS. 271 

Gartenlaube : " We must count it among the excep- 
tional merits of Liszt, that he has paved the way to 
recognition for innumerable aspirants, as he always 
shows an open heart and open hands to all artistic 
strivings. He was the first and most active furtherer of 
the immense Bayreuth enterprise, and the chief founder 
of the Musical Societies or Unions that flourish through- 
out Germany. And for how many noble and philan- 
thropic objects has he not exerted his artistic resources ! 
If, during his earlier virtuoso career, he made his genius 
serve the advantage of others far more than his own — 
saving out of the milhons that he earned only a modest 
sum for himself, while he alone contributed many thou- 
sands for the completion of Cologne Cathederal, for the 
Beethoven monument at Bonn, and for the victims of 
the Hamburg conflagration — so since the close of his 
career as a pianist his public artistic activity has been 
exclusively consecrated to the benefit of others, to artistic 
undertakings, or to charitable objects. Since the end of 
1847, not a penny has come into his own pocket either 
through piano-pla3ring and conducting, or through teach- 
ing. All this^ which has yielded such rich capital and 
interest to others, has cost only sacrifice of time and 
money to himself."] — Ed. 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

Kullak as a Teacher. The Four Great Virtuosi, Clara Schu- 
mann, Rubinstein, Von Biilow, and Tausig. 

Berlin, November 7, 1873. 

Fve been in a sort of mental apathy since I got 
back — the result, I suppose, of so much artistic excite- 
ment all summer. Of course I am practicing very 
hard, and I am taking private lessons of Kullak again. 
I played him my Rubinstein concerto two weeks ago 
and told him I wanted to play it in a concert. He 
says I need more power in it in many places, and by 
practicing it every day I hope I shall at last work up 
to it, as I've conquered the technical difficulties in it. 
There were two pages in it I thought I never could 
master. It is the same with all concertos. They are 
fearfully difficult things to play, and far more difficult, 
/ think, than solos are, because the effort is so sus- 
tained. They are to me the most interesting things 
to listen to of all, and I can't imagine how you can 
think that piano and orchestra are " not made to go 
together." However, I never myself appreciated con- 
certos until I came to Germany. 

Kullak is the most awfully discouraging teacher 
that can be imagined. When you play to him, it is 
like looking at your skin through a magnifying glass. 
All your faults seem to start out and glare at you. I 
don't think, though," that I ever fairly do myself justice 

(272) 



LISZT AND KULLAK. 273 

when I play to him, because he has a sort of benumb- 
ing effect on me, and I feel to him something the way 
that Owen did to old Peter in Hawthorne's story of 
" The Artist of the Beautiful." I can't help acknowl- 
edging the truth of his observations even when I am 
wincing under them, and I yet feel at the same time 
that he does not wholly get at the soul of the thing. 
Kullak is so pedantic ! He never overlooks a tech- 
nical imperfection, and he ties you down to the tech- 
nique so that you never can give rein to your imagina- 
tion. He sits at the other piano, and just as you are 
rushing off he will strike in himself and say, " Don't 
hurry, Fraulein," or something -like that, and then 
you begin to think about holding back your fingers and 
playing every note even, etc. Now I never expect to get 
that perfection of technique that all these artists have 
who have been training throughout their childhood 
while their hand was forming. Kullak's own technique 
is magnificent, but now that I've graduated, as it were, 
he ought to let me play my own way, and not expect me 
to play as he does, and then I could produce my own 
effects. That is just the difference between him and 
Liszt. Liszt's grand principle is, to leave you your 
freedom, and when you play to him, you feel like a 
Pegasus caracoling about in the air. When you play 
to Kullak, you feel as if your wings were suddenly 
clipped, and as if you were put into harness to draw 
an express wagon ! However, I don't think it would 
be well to go to Liszt without having been through 
such a training first, for you want to know what you 
are about when you study with him. You must have 
18 



274 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY, 

a good solid basis upon whicli to raise his airy super- 
structures. Kullak I regard as the basis. 

You ask me in your letter to write you a comparison — 
a summing up — between Clara Schumann, Bulow, Tau- 
sig and Rubmstein, but I don't find it very easy to do, as 
they are all so different. Clara Schumann is entirely a 
classic player. Beethoven's sonatas, and Bach, too, she 
plays splendidly; but she doesn't seem to me to have 
any finesse, or much poetry in her playing. There's 
nothing subtle in her conception. She has a great deal 
of fire, and her whole style is grand, finished, perfectly 
rounded off, solid and satisfactory — what the Germans 
call gediegen. She is a healthy artist to listen to, but 
there is nothing of the analytic, no Balzac or Hawthorne 
about her. Beethoven's Variations in C minor are, per- 
haps, the best performance I ever heard from her, and 
they are immensely difficult, too; I thought she did 
them better than Bulow, in spite of Bulow's being such a 
great Beethovenite. I think she repeats the same pieces 
a good deal, possibly because she finds the modern fash- 
ion of playing everything without notes very trying. 
I've even heard that she cries over the necessity of doing 
it ; and certainly it is a foolish thuig to make a point of, 
with so very great an artist as Clara Schumann. — If 
people could only be allowed to have their own individ- 
uality ! 

Bulow's playing is more many-sided, and is chiefly dis- 
tinguished by its great vigor; there is no end to his 
nervous energy, and the more he plays, the more the 
interest increases. He is my favourite of the four. But 
he plays Chopin just as well as he does Beethoven, and 



VON BULOW AND RUBINSTEIN. 275 

Schumann, too. Altogether he is a superlative pianist, 
though by no means unerring in his performance. Fve 
heard him get dreadfully mixed up. I think he trusts 
too much to his memory, and that he does not prepare 
sufficiently. He plays everything by heart, and such 
programmes ! He always hits the nail plump on the 
nead, and such a grasp as he has ! His chords take firm 
hold of you. For instance, in the beginning of the two 
last movements of the Moonlight Sonata, you should 
hear him run up that arpeggio in the right hand so lightly 
and pianissimo, every note so delicately articulated, and 
then crash-smash on those two chords on the top ! And 
when he plays Bach's gavottes, gigues, etc., in the Eng- 
lish Suites, a laughing, roguish look comes over his 
face, and he puts the most indescribable drollery and 
originality into them. You see that "he sees the 
point" so well, and that makes you see it, too. Yes, it 
is good fun to hear Bulow do these things. — Perhaps 
the best summing up of his peculiar greatness would 
be to say that he impresses you as using the instru- 
ment only to express ideas. With him you forget all 
about the piano, and are absorbed only in the thought 
or the passion of the piece. 

Rubinstein you've heard. Most people put him next 
to Liszt. Your finding him cold surprised me, for if 
there is a thing he is celebrated here for, it is the fire and 
passion of his playing, and for his imagination and spon- 
taneity. I think that Tausig, Biilow, and Clara Schu- 
mann, all three, have it all cut and dried beforehand, 
how they are going to play a piece, but Rubinstein cre- 
ates at the instant. He plays without plan. Probably 



276 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

the afternoon you heard him he did not feel in the mood^ 
and so was not at his best. As a composer he far out- 
ranks the other three. 

Tausig resembled Liszt more in that subtlety which 
Liszt has, and consequently he was a better Chopin 
player than anybody else except Liszt. I never shall 
forget his playing of Chopin's great Ballade in G minor 
the very first time I heard him in concert. It is a 
divine composition, and his rendering of it was not only 
all warmth and fervour; it was also so wonderfully 
poetic that it fairly cast a spell upon the audience, and a 
minute or two went by before they could begin to 
applaud. It was like a dream of beauty suspended in 
the air before you — floating there — and you didn't 
want to disturb it. Tausig had an intense love 
for Chopin, and always wished he could have known 
him. I think that he had more virtuosity, and yet 
more delicacy of feeling, than either Eubinstein or 
Billow. His finish, perfection, and above all his touch, 
were above anything. But, except in Chopin, he was 
cold, at least in the concert room. In the conservatory 
he seemed to be a very passionate player ; but, somehow, 
in public that was not the case. Unfortunately, I had 
studied so little at that time, that I don't feel as if I 
were competent to judge him. He was Liszt's favourite, 
and Liszt said, " He will be the inheritor of my playing ;" 
but I doubt if this would have been, for the winter before 
Tausig died, Kullak remarked to me that his playing 
became more and more ^' dry " every year, probably on 
account of his morbid aversion to " Spectakel," as he 
called it ; whereas Liszt gives the reins to the emotions 
always. 



TAUSIG'S ESCAPADES. 277 

When I was in Weimar I heard a great deal about 
Tausig's escapades when he was studying there as a boy. 
They say he was awfully wild and reckless at that time, 
and Liszt paid his debts over and over again. Sometimes 
in aristocratic parties, when Liszt did not feel like play- 
ing himself, he would tell Tausig to play, and perhaps 
Tausig would not feel hke it, either. He had the most 
enormous strength in his fingers, though his hands were 
small, and he would go to the piano and pretend he was 
going to play, and strike the first chords with such a 
crash that three or four strings would snap almost imme- 
diately, and then, of course, the piano was used up for 
the evening ! 

Tausig's father once procured him a splendid grand 
piano from Leipsic, and shortly after, Tausig whittled 
off the corners of all the keys, so as to make them more 
difficult to strike, and his father had to pay a large sum 
to have them repaired. Another time he was presented 
with a set of chess-men, and the next day some one on 
visiting him observed the pieces all lying about the floor. 
"Why, Tausig, what has happened to your chess-men?" 
" Oh, I wanted to see if they were easily broken, so I 
knocked up the board." He seemed to be possessed with 
a spirit of destruction. Gottschal told me that one time 
when Tausig was "hard up" for money, he sold the 
score of Liszt's Faust for five thalers to a servant, along 
with a great pile of his own notes. The servant disposed 
of them to some waste-paper man, and Gottschal, acci- 
dentally hearing of it, went to the man and purchased 
them. Then he went to Liszt to tell him that he had the 
score. As it happened the publisher had written for it 



278 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

that very day and Liszt was turning the house upside 
down, looking for it everywhere. 

At that time he Avas living in an immense house on 
a hill here, that they call the Altenburg. Liszt oc- 
cupied the first floor, a princely friend the second, and 
the ;top story was one grand ball-room in which were 
generally nine grand pianos standing. They used to 
give the most magnificent entertainments, and Liszt 
spent thirty thousand thalers a year. He lived like a 
prince in those days — very different from his present 
simplicity. Well, he was in an awful state of mind 
because his score was nowhere to be found. " A whole 
year's labor lost !" he cried, and he was in such a rage, 
that when Gottschal asked him for the third time 
what he was looking for, he turned and stamped his 
foot at him and said, " You confounded fellow, can't 
you leave me in peace, and not torment me with your 
stupid questions?" Gottschal knew perfectly well 
what was wanting, but he wished to have a little fun 
out of the matter. At last he took pity on Liszt, and 
said, " Herr Doctor, I know what you've lost. It is 
the score to your Faust." " Oh," said Liszt, changing 
his tone immediately, "do you knoAv an3rthing of it?" 
" Of course I do," said Gottschal, and proceeded to 
unfold Master Tausig's performance, and how he had 
rescued the precious music. Liszt was transported 
with joy that it was found, and called up-stairs, "Car- 
olina, Carolina, we're saved ! Gottschal has rescued 
us ;" and then Gottschal said that Liszt embraced 
him in his transport, and could not say or do enough 
to make up for his having been so rude to him. Well, 



TAUSIG AS A COMPOSER 279 



you would have supposed that it was now all up with 
Master Tausig; but not at all. A few days after- 
ward was Tausig's birthday, and Carolina took Gott- 
schal aside, and begged him to drop the subject of 
the note stealing, for Liszt doted so on his Carl that 
he wished to forget it. Sure enough, Liszt kissed 
Carl and congratulated him on his birthday, and con- 
soled himself with his same old observation, '^ You'll 
either turn out a great blockhead, my little Carl, or a 
great master." 

Tausig had a great ambition to be a composer, and 
in his early youth he published a number of composi- 
tions. Later on he became intensely critical of his 
own work, and finally bought up all the copies he 
could lay hands on and burnt them ! This is entirely 
characteristic of his sense of perfection, which was 
extreme, and may serve as an example to young com- 
posers who are ambitious of saying something in 
music, when very often they have nothing to say ! 
Indeed, I am often amazed at the temerity with which 
men will rush into print, quite oblivious of the fact 
that it requires enormous talent to produce even a 
short piece of music that is worth anything. Only a 
genius can do it. 

Tausig, in my opinion, did possess exceptional 
genius in composition, though he left but few works 
behind him to attest it. Prominent among these are 
his unique arrangements of three of Strauss's Waltzes. 
He had a passion for philosophy, and was deeply read 
in Kant and Hegel. These " arrangements " betray his 
metaphysical and tentative turn, and could only have 



280 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



been the product of the highest mental force and cul- 
ture. Calling the waltz itself the warp of the compo- 
sition, then through its simple threads we find darting 
backwards and forwards a subtle, complicated and 
tragic mind, an exquisitely refined and delicate senti- 
ment, and a piquante, aerial fancy, until finally is 
wrought a brilliant and bewildering transcription — 
transfiguration rather — of endless fascination and 
tantalizing beauty, which no one but a virtuoso can 
play and no one but a connoisseur can comprehend. 
In a peculiar manner his music leaves a stamp upon 
the heart, and to those who can appreciate it, Tausig, 
as a composer, is a deep and irreparable loss. — If he 
had not original ideas of his own, he certainly pos- 
sessed the power of putting an entirely new face on 
those of others. 



WITH DEPPE. 

(281) 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

Gives up Kullak for Deppe. Deppe's Method in Touch and 
in Scale-Playing. Fraulein Steiniger. Pedal Study. 

Berlin, Decemher 11, 1873. 

Since I last wrote you I have taken a yery import- 
ant step, which is this : After taking three or four 
lessons of Kullak I have give;n' him up ! and am now 
studying under a new master. His name is Herr Capel- 
meister Deppe. I suppose you will all think me 
crazed, but I think I know what I am about. He 
seems to me a very remarkable man, and is to me the 
most satisfactory teacher I've had yet. Of course I 
don't count in the unapproachable Liszt when I say 
that, for Liszt is no "professeur du piano, ^^ as he him- 
self used scornfully to remark. 

I made Herr Deppe's acquaintance quite by chance, 
at a musical party given for Anna Mehlig by an Amer- 
ican gentleman living here. I had often heard of 
him, and was very anxious to know him, but somehow 
had never compassed it. He is a conductor, to begin 
with, and I have often seen him conduct orchestral 
concerts. In fact, that was what he first came to Ber- 
lin for, a few years ago — to conduct Stern's orchestral 
concerts during the latter's absence in Italy. Deppe 
is an accomplished conductor, and I have never heard 
Beethoven's second Overture to Leonora sound as I 
have under his baton. 

(283) 



284 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



But it was Sherwood who first called my attention 
to him as a teacher. He rushed into my room one 
day, and said, " Oh, I've just heard tlie most beautiful 
playing that ever I heard in my life !" I asked him 
who it was that had taken him so by storm, and he 
said it was a young English girl named Fannie War- 
burg, and that she was a pupil of Deppe's. "Well, 
what is it about her that is so remarkable," said I. 
"Oh, everything! — execution, expression, style, touch 
— all are perfect! I never heard anything to equal 
her, and- 1 feel as if I never wanted to touch the piano 
again/' 

This was such strong language for Sherwood, who 
is generally very critical and anything but enthusi- 
astic, that my interest was immediately excited. He went 
on to tell me that Deppe had been training this young 
English girl, now only eighteen years of age, with the 
greatest care, for six years, and that he had such an 
interest in her that he did not confine himself to giving 
her lessons only, but set himself to form her whole 
musical taste by taking her to the best concerts and 
to hear the great operas, calling her attention to every 
peculiarity of structure in a composition, and giving 
her all sorts of hints which only a man of profound 
musical culture could give. Sherwood said, moreover, 
that in summer he made her go to Pyrmont, which is a 
watering place near Hanover, where he goes himself 
every year, and that there he heard her play e'^tery day 
Mozart's concertos and all sorts of things. I thought 
to myself at the time that the man who would take so 
much trouble for a pupil as that, would have been 



HERR CAPELMEISTER DEPPE. 285 

just the one for me, for it was easy to see that Deppe 
was teaching more for the love of Art than for love of 
money — a rare thing in these materialistic days ! Af- 
terward, you know, Miss B. spoke to me about him in 
Weimar, and I wrote you what she said. 

Well, as I was saying, I went to this musical party 
given to Anna Mehlig, where there were a number of 
musicians and critics. I was listening to Mehlig play, 
when suddenly Sherwood, who was also present, stole 
up to me and said, " Come into the next room and be 
introduced to Deppe." At these magic words I started, 
and immediately did as I was bid. I found Deppe in 
one corner looking about him in an absent sort of way. 
He was a man of medium height, with a great big 
brain, keen blue eyes and delicate little mouth, and he 
had a most cheery and sunny expression. He shook 
hands, and then we sat dowTi and got into a most ani- 
mated conversation — all about music. I told him how 
interested I was by all I had heard of him — how I had 
returned to Kullak for a last trial — how tired I was of 
his eternal pedagogism, and how I should like to 
study with him. 

He asked me what my chief difficulty was, where- 
upon I answered "the technique, of course." He 
smiled, and said "that was the smallest difficulty, and 
that anybody could master execution if they knew how 
to attack it, unless there was some want of proper 
development of the hand." I said I had studied very 
hard, but that I hadn't mastered it, and that there was 
always some hard place in every piece which I couldn't 
get the better of. He said he was sure he could rem- 



286 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

edy the deficiency, and that if I would show him my 
hand without a glove, he could tell directly what I was 
capable of. I wouldn't pull it off, however, because I 
was afraid he might find some radical defect or weak- 
ness in it, but I was so charmed with the way he made 
light of the technique, and with the absolute cer- 
tainty he seemed to have that I could overcome it, 
that I promised him that I would go and play to him 
the following Wednesday. 

Accordingly on the following Wednesday I presented 
myself. I had expected to stay about half an hour, 
but I ended by staying three solid hours, and we talked 
as fast as we could all the while, too ! So you may 
imagine we had a good deal to say. He lives in two 
little rooms on the Koniggratzer Strasse, only four 
doors from the W.'s, where I boarded for so long. 
Now if I had only known I was close to such a teacher ! 
We must often have passed each other in the street, 
and where was my good angel that he did not touch 
my arm and say, " There's the man for you ?" — Fright- 
ful to think how near one may be to one's best happi- 
ness, or even salvation, and not know it ! 

Deppe's front room was pretty much filled up with 
a grand piano, which, as well as the chairs and most 
other articles of furniture, was covered with music. 
I glanced over the pieces a little, and there was nearly 
every set of Etudes under the sun, it seemed to me, as 
well as concertos and pieces by all the great com- 
posers, fingered and marked with pencil in the most 
minute way. It was enough simply to turn the leaves, 
to see what a study he must have made of everything 



A DISMAL PROSPECT. 287 

he gave his scholars. His inner room had double 
doors to it to prevent the sound from penetrating. I 
rapped at the outside one, and presently I heard a 
great turning and rattling of keys, and then they 
opened, and Deppe was before me. He put out his 
hand in the most cordial and friendly way, and greeted 
me with the most winning smile in the world. I took 
off my things and began to play to him. He listened 
quietly, and without interrupting me. When I had 
finished he told me that my difficulties were principally 
mechanical ones — that I had conception and style, but 
that my execution was uneven and hurried, my wrist 
stiff, the third and fourth fingers* very weak, the tone 
not full and round enough, that I did not know how 
to use the pedal, and finally, that I was too nervous 
and flurried. 

" If possible, you must get over this agitation," said 
he. "Horen Sie Sich spielen (Listen to your own play- 
ing). You have talent enough to get over all your 
difficulties if you will be patient, and do just as I tell 
you." " I will do anything," I said. "Very good. But 
I warn you that you will have to give up all playing 
for the present except what I give you to study, and 
those things you must play very slowly." 

This was a pleasant prospect, as I was just preparing 
to give a concert in Berlin, under Kullak's auspices, 
and had already got my programme half learned ! 
But I had " invoked the demon," and I felt bound to 
give the required pledge. — So here I am, after four 
years abroad with the " greatest masters," going back 



*In German, the fourth and fifth fingers. 



288 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

to first principles, and beginning with five-finger exer- 
cises ! I had never been given any particular rule for 
holding my hand, further than the general one of 
curving the fingers and lifting them very high. Deppe 
objects to this extreme lifting of the fingers. He says 
it makes a knick in the muscle, and you get all the 
strength simply from the finger, whereas, when you 
lift the finger moderately high, the muscle from the 
whole arm comes to bear upon it. The tone, too, is 
entirely diiferent. Lifting the finger so very high, 
and striking with force, stiffens the wrist, and pro- 
duces a slight jar in the hand which cuts off the sing- 
ing quality of the tone, like closing the mouth sud- 
denly in singing. It produces the effect of a blow 
upon the key, and the tone is more a sharp, quick tone ; 
whereas, by letting the finger just fall — it is fuller, less 
loud, but more penetrating. I suppose the hammer 
falls back more slowly from the string, and that makes 
the tone sing longer. 

Don't you remember my saying that Liszt had such 
an extraordinary way of playing a melody? That it 
did not seem to be so loud and cut-out as most artists 
make it, and yet it was so penetrating? Well, dear, 
there was the secret of it! ^^ Spielen Sie mit dem 
Gewicht (Play with weight),^' Deppe will say. " Don't 
strike, but let the fingers fall. At first the tone will 
be nearly inaudible, but with practice it will gain every 
day in power." — After Deppe had directed my atten- 
tion to it, I remembered that I had never seen Liszt 
lift up his fingers so fearfully high as the other schools, 
and especially the Stuttgardt one, make such a point of 



THE POSITION OF THE HAND. 289 

doing.* That is where Mehlig misses it, and is what 
makes her playing so sharp and cornered at times. 
When you lift the fingers so high you cannot bind the 
tones so perfectly together. There is always a break. 
Deppe makes me listen to every tone, and carry it over 
to the next one, and not let any one finger get an 
undue prominence over the other — a thing that is 
immensely difficult to do — so I have given up all pieces 
for the present, and just devote myself to playing 
these little exercises right. 

Deppe not only insists upon the fingers being as 
curved as possible, so that you play exactly on the 
tips of them, but he turns the hand very much out, 
so as to make the knuckles of the third and fourth 
fingers higher than those of the first and second, and 
as he does not permit you to throw out the elbow in 
doing this, the turn must he made from the wrist. 
The thumb must also be slightly curved, and quite free 
from the hand. Many persons impede their execution 
by not keeping the thumb independent enough of the 
rest of the hand. The moment it contracts, the hand 
is enfeebled. The object of turning the hand outward 
is to favour the third and fourth fingers, and give them 
a higher fall when they are lifted. This strength- 
ens them very much. It also looks much prettier 
when the outer edge of the hand is high, and one of 
Deppe's grand mottoes is, " When it looks pretty then 
it is right." 

After Deppe had put me through five-finger exer- 
cises on the foregoing principles, and taught me to lift 

*See p. 220. 
19 



290 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

each finger and let it fall with a perfectly loose wrist, 
(a most deceitful point, by-the way, for it took me a 
long while to distinguish when I was stiffening the 
wrist involuntarily and when I wasn't,) he proceeded 
to the scale. He always begins with the one in E 
major as the most useful to practice. His principle in 
playing the scale is not to turn the thumb under ! but 
to turn a little on each finger end, pressing it firmly 
down on the key, and screwing it round, as it were, on a 
pivot, till the next finger is brought over its own key. 
In this way he prepares for the thumb, which is kept 
free from the hand and slightly curved. — He told me 
to play the scale of E major slowly with the right 
hand, which I did. He curved his hand round mine, 
and told me as long as I played right, his hand would 
not interfere with mine. I played up one octave, and 
then I wished to go on by placing my first finger on F 
sharp. To do that I naturally turned my hand out- 
ward, so as to make the step from my thumb on E 
to F sharp with the first, but it came bang up against 
Deppe's hand like a sort of blockade. " Go on," said 
Deppe. " I can't, when you keep your hand right in 
the way," said I. " My hand isn't in the way," said he, 
" but your hand is out of position." 

So I started again. This time I reflected, and when 
I got my third finger on D sharp, I kept my hand 
slanting from left to right, but I prepared for the turn- 
ing under of the thumb, and for getting my first finger 
on F sharp, by turning my wrist sharply out. That 
brought my thumb down on the note and prepared 
me instantly for the next step. In fact, my wrist car- 



THE '' EGG OF COLUMBUS." 291 

ried my finger right on to the sharp without any change 
in the position of the hand, thus giving the most per- 
fect legato in the world, and I continued the whole 
scale in the same manner. Just try it once, and you'll 
see how ingenious it is — only one must be careful not 
to throw out the elbow in turning out the wrist. As 
in the ascending scale one has to turn the thumb un- 
der twice in every octave, Deppe's way of playing 
avoids twice throwing the hand out of position as one 
does by the old way of playing straight along, and the 
smoothness and rapidity of the scale must be much 
greater. The direction of the hand in running pas- 
sages is always a little oblique. 

Don't you remember my telling you that Liszt has 
an inconceivable lightness, swiftness and smoothness 
of execution? When Deppe was explaining this to 
me, I suddenly remembered that when he was playing 
scales or passages, his fingers seemed to lie across the 
keys in a slanting sort of way, and to execute these 
rapid passages almost without any perceptible motion. 
Well, dear, there it was again ! As Liszt is a great ex- 
perimentalist, he probably does all these things by in- 
stinct, and without reasoning it out, but that is why 
nobody's else playing sounds like his. Some of his 
scholars had most dazzling techniques, and I used to 
rack my brains to find out how it was, that no matter 
how perfectly any body else played, the minute Liszt 
sat down- and played the same thing, the previous play- 
ing seemed rough in comparison. I'm sure Deppe is 
the only master in the world who has thought that 
out ; though, as he says himself, it is the Qgg of Co- 
lumbus — " when you know it !" 



293 MUSIC-STUDY IN GKRMANY. 

Deppe always begins the scale in the middle of the 
piano, and plays up three octaves with the right, and 
down three octaves with the left hand. He says that 
all the difficulty is in going up, and that co?iiing back 
is perfectly easy, as all you have to do is to let the fin- 
gers run ! He always makes me play each hand sep- 
arately at first, and very slowly, and then both hands 
together in contrary direction, gradually quickening 
the tempo. After that in thirds, sixths, octaves, etc. 



Berlin, December 25, 1873. 

As you may imagine, this is anything but a " Merry 
Christmas" for me, for I am simply the most com- 
pletely bouleversee mortal in this world ! Here I was 
a month ago preparing to give a concert of my own. 
Then I have the good or bad luck to make Herr 
Deppe's acquaintance, and to find out how I "ought" 
to have been studying for the last four years. I give 
up Kullak and my concert plan, thinking I'll study 
with Deppe and come out under his auspices. After 
two lessons with him, comes your letter with the 
news of this awful national panic in it. — Could 
anything be worse for a person who has really consci- 
entiously tried to attain her object ? I'm like the pro- 
fessor who gave some lectures to prove a certain 
theory, and when he got to the fourteenth, he decided 
it was false, and devoted the remaining ones to pulling 
it all down ! 

However, after practicing the scale on Deppe's prin- 
ciples, I find that they open the road to an ease, ra- 



SITTINa LOW AT THE PIANO. 293 

pidity, sureness and elegance of execution which, with 
my stiff hand, I've not been able to see even in the 
dim distance before ! One of his grand hobbies is tone, 
and he never lets me play a note without listening 
to it in the closest manner, and making it sound what 
he calls "bewusst (conscious)." — K^o more mechanical 
"straying of the hands over the keys (as the novel- 
ists always say of their heroines) thinking of all sorts 
of things the while," but instead, a close pinning 
down of the whole attention to hear whether one fin- 
ger predominates over the other, and to note the effect 
produced. I was perfectly amazed to see how many 
little ugly habits I had to correct of which I had not 
been the least aware. It seems as though my ears had 
been opened for the first time ! Such concentration 
is very exhausting, and after two or three hours' prac- 
tice I feel as if I should drop off the chair. 

T forgot to say before, that Deppe enjoins sitting 
very low — that is — not higher than a common chair. 
He says one may have " the soul of an angel," and yet 
if you sit high, the tone will not sound poetic. More- 
over, in a low seat the fingers have to work a great 
deal more, because you can't assist them by bringing 
the weight of your arm to bear. "Your elbow must 
be lead and your wrist 2^ feather P Of course the seat 
must be modified to suit the person. I prefer a low 
seat myself, and have even had my piano-chair cut off 
two inches. 

« 

Before definitely deciding to give up Kullak and 
come to him, Deppe insisted that I should hear one of 
his scholars play. Fannie Warburg is in England on 



294 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

a visit, so I could not hear her, but he has another 
young lady pupil of whom he is very proud, named 
Fraulein Steiniger. This young lady had been origi- 
nally a pupil of Kullak's, and I had heard her play 
once in his conservatory. She was a girl of a good 
deal of talent, but not a genius. Deppe said that 
when she came to him she had all my defects, only 
worse. She has been studying with him in the most 
tremendous manner for fifteen months, and he wanted 
me to see what he had made of her in that time. She 
was going to play in a concert in Liibeck, and he was 
to rehearse her pieces with her on Saturday for the 
last time. He begged me to come then, and accord- 
ingly I went. 

I was very much struck by her playing, which was 
remarkable, not so much for sentiment or poetry, of 
which she had little, but for the mastery she had over 
the instrument, and for the perfection with which she 
did everything. There was a clarity and limpidity 
about her trills and runs which surprised and delighted. 
Her left hand was as able as the right, and had a way 
of taking up a variation like nothing at all and run- 
ning along with it through the most complicated pas- 
sages, which almost made you laugh with pleasure ! 
There was a wonderful vitality, elasticity and snap to 
her chords which impressed me very much, and a unity 
of effect about her whole performance of any compo- 
sition which I don't remember to have heard from the 
pupils of other masters. The position of the hand 
was exquisite, and all difficulties seemed to melt away 
like snow or to be surmounted with the greatest ease. 



"THE GREAT E FLAT." 295 

I saw at a glance that Deppe is a magnificent teacher, 
and I believe that he has originated a school of his 
own. 

Fraulein Steiniger played a charming Quintette by- 
Hummel, a beautiful Suite by KafP, a Prelude and Fu- 
gue by Bach, and two Studies, and all, as it seemed to 
me, exactly as they ought to be played. After she had 
finished, we had a long talk about Kullak. She said 
she staid with him year after year, doing her very best, 
and never arriving at anything. At last, as he did 
nothing for her, she resolved to strike out for herself, 
and went to Deppe, who was at that time conducting 
Stern's orchestral concerts, and asked him if he would 
not allow her to play in one of them. Deppe re- 
ceived her with his characteristic kindness and cor- 
diality, but told her that before he could promise he 
must first hear her in private, and he set a time for 
the purpose. 

She had prepared Beethoven's great E flat Concerto, 
which everybody plays here. It is as difficult for 
Deppe to listen to that concerto as it is for Liszt to 
hear Chopin's B flat minor Scherzo. " We poor con- 
ductors !" he will exclaim, " will the artists always 
keep bringing us Beethoven's E flat Concerto? Why 
not, for once, the B flat, or a Mozart concerto? Then 
we should say ^Ja, mit Yergnugen (Yes, with pleasure).' 
Aber Jeder will grossartig spielen heiitzutage (But 
everybody wants to play on a grand scale now-a-days). 
The mighty rushing torrent is the fashion, but who can 
do the wimpling, dimpling streamlet ^ Nobody has 
any fingers for the kleine Passagen (little fine pas- 



296 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

sages). Sie hahen, A\\e,keine Finger (No7ie of them 
have any fingers)." He then winds up by saymg he is 
the only man in Germany who knows how to give 
them " fingers." " Teh veiss worauf es ankommt (I 
know what it depends on) !" 

Nevertheless, he listened patiently for the thou- 
sandth time to the E flat concerto, as Steiniger played 
it. He then quietly called her attention to the fact 
that she had " no fingers," and she was in perfect des- 
pair. He saw that she was energetic and willing to 
work, and he at once took her in hand and began to 
drill her. She withdrew entirely from society and de- 
voted herself to practicing, following his directions im- 
plicitly. She is now a beautiful artist, and he chalks 
out every step of her career. I don't doubt she will 
play in the Gewandhaus in Leipsic eventually, which 
is the height of every artist's ambition, and stamps you 
as " finished." Then you are recognized all over the 
world. Deppe does not mean to let her play here till 
she has first played in many little places and suc- 
ceeded. As he said to me the other day, " When you 
wish to spring over tall mountains, you must first 
jump over little mounds {kleine Graben.y He 
counsels me to take a lesson of this young lady every 
day for a time, so as to get over the technical part 
quickly. 

As for Deppe's young protegee, Fannie Warburg, 
whom he has formed completely, everybody says that 
she is wonderful. Friiulein Steiniger says that when 
you hear her play you feel almost as if it were some- 
thing holy, it is so perfect and so extraordinarily spirit- 



STUDYING THE PEDAL. 297 

ual. She is only eighteen. Deppe showed me the list 
of compositions that she has already played in concerts 
elsewhere, and I was astonished at the variety and 
compass of it. Every great composer was represented. 
Among other refinements of his teaching, Deppe, 
asked me if I had ever made any pedal studies. I said 
" No — nobody had ever said anything to me about the 
pedal particularly, except to avoid the use of it in 
runs, and I supposed it was a matter of taste." He 
picked out that simple little study of Cramer in D 
major in the first book — you know it well — and asked 
me to play it. I had played that study to Tausig, and 
he found no fault with my use of the pedal ; so I sat 
down thinking I could do it right. But I soon found 
I was mistaken, and that Deppe had very different 
id(}as on the subject. He sat down and played it 
phrase by phrase, pausing between each measure, to let 
it "sing." I soon saw that it is possible to get as 
great a virtuosity with the pedal as with anything else, 
and that one must make as careful a study of it. 
You remember I wrote to you that one secret of 
Liszt's effects was his use of the pedal,* and how he 
has a way of disembodying a piece from the piano 
and seeming to make it float in the air? He makes a 
spiritual form of it so perfectly visible to your inward 
eye, that it seems as if you could almost hear it breathe ! 
Deppe seems to have almost the same idea, though he 
has never heard Liszt play. " The Pedal," said he, "is 
the lungs of the piano." He played a few bars of a 
sonata, and in his whole method of binding the notes 

♦See p. 224. 



298 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

together and managing the pedal, I recognized Liszt. 
The thing floated ! — Unless Deppe wishes the chord 
to be very brilliant, he takes the pedal after the chord 
instead of simultaneously with it. This gives it a very 
ideal sound. — You may not believe it, but it is true, that 
though Deppe is no pianist himself, and has the fun- 
niest little red paws in the world, that don't look as if 
they could do anything, he's got that same touch and 
quality of tone that Liszt has — that indescribable 
something that, when he plays a few chords, merely, 
makes the tears rush to your eyes. It is too heavenly 
for anything. 



CHAPTER XXV. 

Chord-Playing. Deppe no " Mere Pedagogue." Sherwood. 

Mozart's Concertos. Practicing Slowly. 

The Opera Ball. 

Berlin, January 3, 1874. 

"When I had got the principle of the scale pretty well 
into my head, what should Deppe rummage out but 
Czerny's " Schule der Geldufigkeit (School of Veloc- 
ity)," which I hadn't looked at since the days of my 
childhood and fondly flattered myself I had done with 
forever. (We none of us know what stands before 
us !) After having studied Cramer, Gradus and 
Chopin, you may imagine it was rather a come down 
to have to take to the School of Velocity again ! And 
to study it veri/ slowly and with one hand only ! ! 
That was adding insult to injury. Deppe knoAvs what 
he is about, though. He began picking out passages 
here and there all through the book, and making me 
play them, stretching from the thumb and turning on 
the fingers as often as possible. After I have mastered 
the passages I am to learn a Avhole study, first with 
each hand alone, and then with both together ! 

Deppe next proceeded to teach me how to strike 
chords. I had to learn to raise my hands high over 
the key-board, and let them fall without any resistance 
on the chord, and then sink with the wrist, and take 
up the hand exactly over the notes, keejoing the hand 

(299) 



300 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

extended. There is quite a little knack in letting the 
hand fall so, but when you have once got it, the chord 
sounds much richer and fuller. — And so on, ad infin- 
itum. Deppe had thought out the best way of doing 
everything on the piano — the scale, the chord, the 
trill, octaves, broken octaves, broken thirds, broken 
sixths, arpeggios, chromatics, accent, rhythm — all ! 
He says that the principle of the scale and of the 
chord are directly opposite. "In playing the scale 
you must gather your hand into a nut-shell, as it 
were, and play on the finger tips. In taking the chord, 
on the contrary, you must spread the hands as if you 
were going to ask a blessing." This is particularly 
the case with a wide interval. He told me if I ever 
heard Eubinstein play again to observe how he strikes 
his chords. "Nothing cramped about him! He 
spreads his hands as if he were going to take in the 
universe, and takes them up with the greatest freedom 
and dbandonr Deppe has the greatest admiration 
for Rubinstein's tone, which he says is unequaled, but 
he places Tausig above him as an artist. He said 
Tausig used to come to his room and play to him, and 
he took off Tausig's little half bow and way of seating 
himself at the piano and beginning at once, without 
prelude or wasting of words, very funnily ! He would 
scarcely take time to say " Guten Abend (Grood Even- 
ing)." Deppe thinks Tausig played some things 
matchlessly, but that in others he was dry and soul- 
less. Clara Schumann, he says, is the most "musical' 
of all the great artists — and you remember how im- 
mensely struck I was with Natalie Janotha, who is 
her pupil, and plays just like her. 



DEPPE NOT A PEDAGOGUE. 301 

From my telling you so much about technicalities, 
you must not think Deppe only a pedagogue. He is 
in reality the soul of music, and all these things are 
only "means to an end." As he says himself, " I always 
hear the music the people donH play." No pianist ever 
entirely suited him, and this it was that set him to 
examining the instrument in order to see what was 
the matter with it. He made friends with the great 
virtuosi, and studied their ways of playing, and the 
result of all his observation is that " Piano playing is 
the only thing where there is something to be done." 
He declares that there is so much musical talent going 
to waste in the world that it is "lying all about 
the streets," and he has a most ingenious way of 
accounting for the fact that there are so many great 
pianists in spite of their not knowing his method : — 
" Gifted people," he says, " play by the grace of Grod ; 
but everybody could master the technique on my 
system I ! " 

To show you that it is not alone my judgment 
of Deppe — four of Kullak's best pupils, including 
Sherwood ! left him for Deppe, after I did. They 
got so uneasy from what I told them, that they went 
to see Deppe, and as soon as they heard Fraulein Stein- 
iger play, they had to admit that she had got hold of 
some secrets of which they knew nothing. Sherwood, 
you know, is a positive genius, yet he is beginning all 
over again, too. In short, we are all unanimous, while 
Deppe, on his side, is much gratified at having some 
American pupils. — He flatters himself that we will 
introduce all his cherished ideas into our " new and 
progressive country." 



302 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

Ah, if I had only studied with DepjDe before I went to 
Weimar ! When I was there I didn't play half as 
often to Liszt as I might have done, kind and encour- 
aging as he always was to me, for I always felt I 
wasn't worthy to be his pupil ! But if I had known 
Deppe four years ago, what might I not have been 
now? After I took my first lesson of Deppe this 
thought made me perfectly wretched. I felt so dread- 
fully that I cried and cried. When I woke up in the 
morning I began to cry again. I was so afflicted 
that at last my landlady, who is very kind and sympa- 
thetic, asked me what ailed me. I told her I felt so 
dreadfully to think I had met the person I ought to have 
met four years ago, at the last minute, so. — " On the 
contrary, you ought to rejoice that you have met him 
at all^^ said she. " Many persons go throuofh life with- 
out ever meeting the person they wish to, or they don't 
know him when they do." — Sensible woman, Frau von 
H. ! — After that I stopped fretting, and tried to believe 
that there is " a divinity that shapes our ends, rough- 
hew them how we mav." 



Berlin, February 12, 1874. 
I am now taking three lessons a week from Fraulein 
Steiniger and one lesson of Deppe himself, and he says 
I am almost through the technical preparation, though 
I still practice only with one hand, and viery slowly all 
the time. Fraulein Steiniger says tliat she also prac- 
ticed slowly all the time for six months, as I am now 
doing. In fact, she completely forgot how to play 



MOZART'S CONCERTOS. 303 

fast, and one day when Deppe finally said to her in 
the lesson, " Now play fast for once," she could not 
do it, and had to learn it all over again. Of course 
she very soon got her hand in again, and now she has 
the most beautiful execution, and can play anything 
perfectly. 

Deppe wants me to play a Mozart concerto for two 
pianos with Fraulein Steiniger, the first thing I play 
in public. Did you know that Mozart wrote twenty 
concertos for the piano, and that nine of them are 
masterpieces? Yet nobody plays them. Why? Be- 
cause they are too hard, Deppe says, and Lebert, the 
head of the Stuttgardt conservatory, told me the same 
thing at Weimar. I remember that the musical critic 
of the Atlantic Monthly remarked that "we should 
regard Mozart's passages and cadenzas as child's play 
aow-a-days." Child's play, indeed ! That critic, 
whoever it is, "had better go to school again," as 0. 
always says ! 

Deppe is remarkable in Mozart, and has studied him 
more than anybody else, I fancy. Indeed, to turn 
over his concertos, and see how he has fingered them 
alone, is enough to make you dizzy. He is always say- 
ing, "You must hear Fannie Warburg play a Mozart 
concerto. She can do it !" and, indeed, I am most 
anxious to hear her. 

It is ludicrous to hear Deppe talk about the artists 
that everybody else thinks so great. Having been a 
director of an orchestra for years, he has constantly 
directed their concerts, and he weighs them in a re- 
lentless balance ! The other day he gave me Mendels- 



304 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

sohn's Concerto in Gr minor, and just at the end of the 
first movement is a fearful break-neck passage for 
both hands. " There !" cried Deppe, " that's *a good 
healthy place. Nehmen Sie i>AS> filr Ihr tdgliches Gehet 
(Take that for your daily prayer). When you can play 
it eight times in succession without missing a note, 
ril be satisfied. That is one of the places that when 
the pianists come to, they get their foot hard on to the 
pedal and hold on to it — Herr Gottl how they hold 
on to it — and so lie themselves through." He said he 
never heard anyone do it right except those to whom 
he had taught it. Steiniger played it for me the other 
day and it so astonished my ears that I felt like 
saying, ^^ Herr GottT too. It was as if some one had 
snatched up a handful of hail and dashed it all over 
me. Br-r-r-zip ! how it did go ! — Like a bundle of 
rockets touched off one after the other. And yet this 
concerto is one of those things that everybody thrums, 
and is one of the regular pieces you must have in 
your repertoire. Deppe was quite shocked to find I had 
never learned it. 

My lesson usually lasts three hours ! Nothing Deppe 
hates like being hurried over a lesson. He likes to 
have plenty of time to express all his ideas and tell 
you a good many anecdotes in between ! I usually 
take my lessons from seven till ten in the evening. 
Then he puts on his coat and saunters along with me 
on his way to his " Kneipe," or beer-garden, for he is 
far too sociable to go to bed without having taken a 
friendly glass of beer with some one. Every block or 
so he will stand stock still and impress some musical 



GERMAN DANCING. 305 

point upon my. mind, and will often harangue me for 
five or ten minutes before moving on. It seems to be 
impossible to him to walk and talk at the same time ! 
In this way you may imagine it takes me a good while 
to get home. 

On Tuesday there is to be a grand ball at the 
opera house which the Emperor and the whole court 
grace with their presence, and lead off the first Polo- 
naise. There are two of these grand public balls every 
winter. The tickets are sold, and it is the sole occasion 
where the public can have the felicity of gazing upon 
royalty in close proximity. I have never been, though 
all my German friends have been dinning it into my 
ears for the last four years that I ought to go and see 
it, for the decorations are magnificent. This year there 
is to be but one, as the Emperor is not very well, and 
I expect it will be as much as one's life is w^orth to get 
in and get out again, such is the rush ! 

The German officers waltz perfectly, and with great 
spirit and elegance. Dancing is a part of their mili- 
tary training and they are obliged to learn it. But 
they are not very comfortable partners, for one rubs 
one's face against their epaulets unless they are Just 
the right height, andyou've no rest for your left hand. 
They take only two turns round the room and then 
stop a moment or two to fan you and rest — then they 
take two more. The consequence is, one never gets 
fairly going before one has to stop. At first I used to 
think the effect of so many people whirling round in 
the same direction dizzying and monotonous. But 
when I became accustomed to it, the continual revers- 
20 



306 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

ins: of the Americans wlio come to Berlin struck me 
as angular, in contrast to the graceful German cir- 
cling. It is not " the thing " here for the girls to look 
flushed and disordered — skirts torn, and hair out of 
crimp — as our belles do at the end of an evening. 
They retire from the ball-room with their dresses in 
faultless condition, so that going to parties in Germany 
must cost the pater famiUas considerably less than 
with us ! The floor is never so crowded with dancers 
at one time, and as they are going in the same direction, 
they don't run into each other as our couples do. 
On the other hand, they don't have such a "good 
time " out of it as do our girls, with their long five 
and ten minute turns to those delicious waltzes ! 
Strange, that though Germany is the native home of 
the waltz, and the Vienna waltzes surpass all others, the 
Schottisch or Rhinelaender should be their favourite 
dance. They dance it very gracefully and rythmically. 



Berlin, March 1, 1874. 
I went the other evening to the Opera ball I wrote 
you of in my last. The whole opera house, stage and 
all, was floored over, and magnificently decorated with 
evergreens, mirrors, fountains, and flowers. The 
tickets are sold for some charitable purpose. Only 
nice people can get in, because the whole thing is 
systematically arranged, and nobody can give their 
tickets to anybody else. I got mine through Mr. Ban- 
croft, and I Avent with two other ladies and a gentle- 
man. 



A COURT BALL. 30 7 



We went very early, so as to get a box to sit in, and 
never shall I forget the first effect of the ball-room ! 
That immense polished floor stretching out like one 
vast mirror or sheet of ice, the fountains flashing at 
the sides, the walls wreathed with green, a big orchestra 
sitting in the balcony at each end, and about a hun- 
dred pairs of magnificently dressed ladies and gentle- 
men descending the stairs into the rooms and prom- 
enading about. Light, diamonds, colour, everywhere. 
Oh, it was perfectly fairy-like ! The floor was built 
over the tops of the chairs in the parquette, and the 
entrance was through the royal box, which is just 
in the centre of the opera house, facing the stage. 
This box is like a large recess, of course, and not like 
the ordinary boxes. There was an entrance on each 
side, coming in from the corridor, and a flight of broad 
steps, carpeted, had been improvised, which led from 
it down to the floor. It looked perfectly dazzling to 
see the pairs come in from both sides at once and de- 
scend the steps, and the ladies' dresses were displayed 
to perfection. Such toilets I never saw. The women 
were covered with lace, feathers, and diamonds. The 
simpler dresses were of tarletane (mine included !) 
but as they were quite fresh they gave a very dressy 
air. We had a splendid box, first rank, and the second 
from the proscenium boxes on the left, in which sat 
the royal family. In the box between us and the latter 
sat the wife of the French ambassador with the Coun- 
tess von Seidlewitz and her sister, and behind them was 
a formidable array of magnificent-looking officers in 
full uniform, their breasts flashing with stars and 
orders and silver chains. 



308 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

The Countess von Seidlewitz is a famous court beauty 
and is lady of honour to the Princess Carl (sister of 
the Empress). She sat just next to me, as only the 
partition of the box was between us, and she was the 
most beautiful woman I saw — perfectly imperial, in 
fact — white and magnificent as a lily. Her features 
were perfectly regular, and she had a proudly-cut 
mouth, and such dazzling little teeth ! Then, her 
arms, neck, and shape were exquisite. She wore the 
severest kind of dress, and one that only such beauty 
could have borne. It was a white silk, with an im- 
mense train, of course, and without overskirt — simply 
caught up in a great puff behind. The waist was 
made with a small basque, but very low, and with very 
short sleeves. Round the neck Avas a white bugle 
fringe, and there were two or three rows of this fringe 
in front, graduating to the waist, smaller and smaller, 
and going round the basque. All the front breadth 
of the skirt was laid in folds of satin, in groups of 
three, and on the edge of every third row was the 
fringe again, graduating wider and wider toward the 
bottom. In her hair she wore a wreath of white ver- 
benas or (snow-balls) and green leaves. Her sole orna- 
ment was a masfuificent diamond locket and ear-rino^s of 
some curious design, the locket depending from a very 
tine gold chain, which challenged all observers to no- 
tice the faultless iiess of her neck. One sly bit of co- 
quetry was visible in two natural flowers, lilies-of-the- 
valley, with their leaves, which she had stuck in her 
corsage so that they should rest against her neck and 
show that they were not whiter than her skin. — You 



THE EMPRESS. 309 



see there were no folds anywhere, as there was no over- 
skh't, but the whole dress hung in long lines and 
showed the contour of the figure. Nothing but these 
fringes (which gleamed and waved with every motion) 
relieved it — not even a bit of black velvet anywhere, 
for the lace round the neck was drawn through with 
a white silk thread. Tliere was another lady in the 
same box whose dress was very beautiful, too, though 
she herself was not. It was a green silk with green 
tulle overdress puffed, and with ears of silver wheat 
scattered over it. The tunic was of silver crape, the 
bottom cut in scallops and trimmed with silver wheat. 
A wisp of wheat was knotted round her neck for a 
necklace, and a perfect sheaf of it in her hair. It was 
an exquisite dress. 

At ten o'clock everybody had arrived — about two 
thousand people. The orchestra struck up the Polo- 
naise, and the court descended from the box to make 
the tour of the floor (i. e., only the members of the 
royal family with their ladies of honour). The Em- 
peror was not very well, so he remained in his box, 
but the Empress led off with the Duke of Edinburgh, 
who happened to be here. She was dressed in laven- 
der satin, covered with the most superb white lace. 
Her hair was done in braids on the top of her head, 
very high, and upon it was fastened a double coronet 
of diamonds, stuck on in stars, etc., which flashed like 
so many small suns. Round her neck depended from 
a black velvet band, strings of diamonds of great size 
and magnificence. It really almost made you start 
when your eye caught them unexpectedly ! The Em- 



310 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

press is a very elegant-looking woman, and is every 
inch a qneen. She moved with stately step, bowing 
and bowing graciously from side to side to the crowd 
which parted and bent before her, and was followed 
by the Crown Prince and Princess, the Princess Carl, 
the Princess Friedrich Carl (a beauty) and her daugh- 
ters, and I don't know who all, witli their ladies of 
honour. When the Countess von Seidlewitz came 
along, with her fringes waving and gleaming in front 
of her, she shone out from all the rest, and, in fact, 
from the whole two thousand guests, like the planet 
Venus among the other stars. — Stunning ! 

The orchestra banged away its loudest, and it was 
quite exciting. The three balconies were crowded with 
people, and all the boxes. The box of the diplomatic 
corps was just opposite us, and our gay little Mrs. F. 
sat in it dressed in white satin. Some of my friends 
came and stood under my box and tried to get me to 
come down, but I would not, for I knew I should lose 
my place if I did, and, indeed, I Avould not want to 
dance there unless my dress were something superlative. 
You see, all the swells sat in their boxes and gazed 
right down on the dancers, who had a circular place 
roped off for them. De Rilvas, the Spanish minister, 
looked so fine, however, with his broad blue ribbon 
across his breast and his gold cross depending from 
his neck, that I should have liked very well to have 
made the tour of the room with him. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 

A Set of Beethoven Variations. Fannie Warburg. Deppe's 

Inventions. His Room. His Afternoon 

Coffee. Pyrmont. 

Berlik, April 30, 1874. 
I wish yon were here now so that I could play you 
a set of little yariations by Beethoven called, "I've 
only got a little hut." They are bewitching, and I 
think I can now play them so as to express (as Deppe 
says) " that he had indeed nothing but his little hut, but 
was quite happy in it." In the last variation he dances 
a waltz in his little hut ! I have learned a great deal 
from these tiny variations, taught in Deppe's inimita- 
ble fashion. When I first took them to him I began 
playing the second of the variations — which is rather 
plaintive and seems to indicate that the proprietor of 
the little hut had a misgiving that there might be a 
better abode somewhere on the earth — ^with a great 
deal of " expression," as I thought. I soon found out 
I was overdoing it, however, and that it is not always 
so easy to define where good expression stops and bad 
style begins. " Why do you make those notes stick out 
so?" asked Deppe, as I was giving vent to my "soul- 
longings," (as P. says). " Learn to paint in grossen 
Flaechen (great surfaces)." He made me play it 
again perfectly legato, and with no one note " sticking 
out" more than another. I saw at once that he was 

(311) 



313 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



right about it, and that the effect was much better, 
while it took nothing from the real sentiment of the 
piece. It was one of those cases where a simple state- 
ment was all that was necessary. Anything more de- 
tracted from rather than added to it. 

I have at last heard Fannie Warburg in a Mozart 
concerto, for she has got back from England. How 
she did play it ! To say that the passages " pearled," 
would be saying nothing at all. Why, the piano just 
warbled them out like a nightingale ! The last 
movement had the infectious gayety that Mozart's 
things often have, with a magnificent cadenza by him- 
self. She rendered it so perfectly, and with such 
naive light-heartedness, that none of us could resist 
it, and we all finally burst into a laugh ! There was a 
little orchestra accompanying, which Deppe had got 
together and was directing. When she got to the 
cadenza, he laid down his baton, and retired to lean 
against the door and enjoy it. She did it in the most 
masterly manner, and 0, it was so difficult ! I thought 
of the Boston critic, who considered Mozart's compo- 
sitions "child's play." They are child's play — that is, 
they are nothing at all if they are not faultlessly 
played, and every fault sJioios, which is the reason so 
few attempt them. Your hand must be " in order," 
as Deppe says, to do it. 

Fannie AVarburg is a sweet little eighteen-year-old 
maiden. A shy little bud of a girl Avithout any vanity or 
self -consciousness. She has a lovely hand for the 
piano, and the way she uses it is perfectly exquisite. 
It is small and plump, but strong, with firm little fin- 



FANNIE WARBURG'S HAND. 315 

gers. Every muscle is developed, and indeed it could 
not be otherwise, after such a six years' training. One 
of Deppe's rules is that when you raise the finger the 
knuckle must not stick out. The finger must "sit 
firm (fest-sitzen) in the joint." Fannie Warburg's 
fingers "sitzen^^ so "fest^^ that when she plays she 
positively has a little row of dimples where her knuckles 
ought to be. It looks too pretty for anything — just 
like a baby's hand. She does not seem to have the 
slightest ambition, however, and I doubt wdiether she 
will ever do anything with her music after she leaves 
Deppe. Her mother was from Hamburg, and had 
taken lessons of Deppe there when they were both 
quite young. She thought him such a remarkable 
teacher that she declared her daughter should have no 
other master. So when Fannie was twelve vears 
old she brought her to him, and he has been giving 
her lessons ever since — something like Samuel's mother 
bringing him to the Temple, wasn't it? — and indeed 
when I go into Deppe's shabby little room I always 
feel as if I were in a little Temple of Music ! I like 
to see the furniture all bestrewn with it, and Deppe 
himself seated at his table surrounded with piles of 
manuscript, pen in hand, going over and arranging 
them, bringing order out of chaos. Other orchestra 
leaders are always wi'iting and begging him to lend 
them his copies of Oratorios, etc. 

Deppe has all sorts of practical little ideas peculiar to 
himself. For instance, he has invented a candlestick to 
stand on a grand piano. In shape it is curved, like 
those things for candles attached to upright pianos, but 



314 MUSIC-STUDY iN GERMANY. 

with a weighted foot to hold it firm. It is a capital 
invention, for you put one each side of the music-rack, 
and then you can turn it so as to throw the light on your 
music, just as you can turn those on the upright pianos. 
It is on the same principle, only with the addition of the 
foot. It is much more convenient than a lamp, because 
it doesn't rattle, and you can throw the light on the 
page so much better. — Then he always insists on our 
having our pieces bound separately, in a cover of stout 
blue paper, such as copy books are bound in. He entirely 
disapproves of binding music in books. "Who will lug 
a great heavy book along?" he will ask, "and besides, 
they don't lie open well." 

The other day Deppe told me he wanted me to come 
and hear Friiulein Steiniger take her lesson, as she had 
some interesting pieces to play. I found her already 
there when I arrived. Deppe was in an uncommonly 
good humour, and kept making little jokes. She played 
a string of things, and finally ended off with Liszt's 
arrangement of the Spinning Song from Wagner's Fly- 
ing Dutchman. Deppe is dreadfully fussy about this 
piece, and made some such subtle and telling points 
regarding the conception of the composition, that they 
were worthy of Liszt himself. I mean to learn it, and 
when I come home I will play it to you as Deppe taught 
it to Steiniger, and you will see how fascinating it is. I 
know you'll be carried away with it. 

Toward the end of the lesson it was growing rather late, 
and time also for Deppe's coffee, which beverage you know 
the Germans always drink late in the afternoon, accom- 
panied with cakes. He Inid just laid down his violin, as 



DEPPE AT HOME. 315 

he and Fraulein Steiniger had played a sonata together, 
and had seated himself at the piano to show her about 
some passage or other. Deeply absorbed, he was har- 
anguing her as hard as he could, when the maid of all 
work suddenly entered with the coffee on a tray, and 
was apparently about to set it down on the piano in 
close proximity to the violin. ^^Herr Gott, nicht auf die 
Yiolin! (Good gracious, not on the violin) !" exclaimed 
Doppe, springing frantically up and rescuing the beloved 
instrument. "Where then?" said the girl. "Oh, any- 
where, only not on the violin." She set it down on a 
chair and vanished. There were only three chairs in the 
room, and the sofa was covered with music. Fraulein 
Steiniger occupied one chair, I the second, and the coffee 
the third. Deppe glanced around in momentary bewild- 
erment, and then sat himself plump down on the floor, 
took his coffee, stretched out his legs, and began stirring 
it imperturbably. " But Herr Deppe ! " remonstrated 
Steiniger. "Well," said he, with his light-hearted laugh, 
"what else can I do when I have no chair?" There was 
no carpet on the floor, which was an ordinary painted 
one, and he looked funny enough, sitting there, but he 
enjoyed his coffee just as well ! — After he had finished 
drinking it, the shades of night were falling, and it 
occurred to him it would be well to illuminate his 
apartment. He is the happy possessor of five minute 
lamps and candlesticks, no two of which are the same 
height. The lamps are two in number, and are about 
as big as the smallest sized fluid lamp that we used in old 
times to go to bed by. The three candlesticks are of 
china, and adorned with designs in decalcomania — 



316 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

« 

probably the handiwork of grateful pupils, for in Germany 

there is no present like a " Hand- Arbeit (something 
done by the hand of the giver)." It is the correct thing 
to give a gentleman. When Fraulein Steiniger and I 
only are present, Deppe usually considers the two lamps 
sufficient. But if others are there and he is going to 
have some music in the evening he will produce the 
three minute candlesticks, with an end of candle in each, 
light them, and dispose them in various parts of the 
room. When, however, as on great occasions, the five 
lamps and candlesticks are supplemented by two more 
candles on the piano in the curved candlesticks of 
Deppe's own invention, the blaze of light is something 
tremendous to our unaccustomed eyes ! Nothing short 
of the Tuileries or the "Weisser Saal " at the palace here 
could equal it ! 



Berlin, May 31, 1874. 
This season with Deppe has been of such immense 
importance to me, that I don't know what sum of money 
I would take in exchange for it. By practicing in his 
method the tone has an entirely different sound, being 
round, soft and yet penetrating, while the execution of 
passages is infinitely facilitated and perfected. In fact, 
it seems to me that in time one could attain anything by 
it, but time it will have. One has to study for months 
very slowly and with very simple things, to get mto the 
way of playing so, and to be able to think about each 
finger as you use it — to ''feel the note and make it con- 
scious." Deppe won't let me finish anything at present, 



SHERWOOD. 317 



so I can't tell how far along I am myself. His principle 
is, never to learn a piece completely the first time you 
attack it, but to master it three-quarters, and then let it 
lie as you would fruit that you have put on a shelf to 
ripen ; — afterward, take it up again and finish it. The 
prmciple may be a good one, but it prevents my ever 
having anything to play for people,and consequently I have 
ceased playing in company entirely. In fact, I find it impos- 
sible, and I don't see how Sherwood manages it. He has a 
whole repertoire, and sits down and plays piece after 
piece deliciously. But then he is a perfect genius, and 
will make a sensation when he comes out. He has that 
natural repose and imperturbability that are everything 
to an artist, but which, unfortunately, so few of us pos- 
sess. His compositions, too, are exquisite, and so poetical ! 
Mrs. Wrisley,* of Boston, and Fraulein Estleben, of 
Sweden, who left Kullak when I did, are also gifted 
creatures, whereas I think I am only a steady old poke- 
along, who wonH give up ! Sherwood, however, is head 
and shoulders above all of us. 

[The following extract, taken from the report in the 
Musical Heview of Mr. Sherwood's address before the 
Music Teachers' National Association in Buffalo, in June, 
1880, would seem to show that whether this distinguished 
young virtuoso, now by far the leading American con- 
cert-pianist, gained his ideas on fche study of touch and 
tone from Herr Deppe or not, he certainly endorses 
them in both his playing and his teaching : — " It makes 
a great deal of difference whether a piano be struck with 
a stick, with mechanical fingers, or with fingers that are 
full of life and magnetism. I have examined Kubinstein's 

* Now Mrs. Sherwood. 



318 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

hand and arm, and found that they are not only full of 
life and magnetism, but that they are extremely elastic, 
and the fingers are so soft that the bones are scarcely felt. 
Can practice produce these qualities? I believe so, and I 
make it a point both with my pupils and myself to prac- 
tice slow motions. It is much easier to strike quickly 
than slowly, but practice in the slow movement will 
develop both muscular and nervous power. And the 
tone obtained by this motion is much better than that 
obtained by striking. Tlie mechanical practice in vogue 
at Leipsic and other European conservatories often fails 
because the subject of aesthetics and tone beauties are 
neglected." See pp. 288, 302-3, 334.]— Ed. 

My lessons with Deppe are a genuine musical excite- 
ment to me, always. In every one is something so 
new and unexpected — something that I never dreamed 
of before — that I am lost in astonishment and admir- 
ation. The weeks fly by like days before I know it. 
Dejipe gives me the most beautiful music, and never 
wastes time over things which will be of no use to me 
afterward. Every piece has an aim, and is lovely, 
also, to play to people. Now, in Tausig's and Kul- 
lak's conservatories I wasted quantities of time over 
things which are beautiful enough, and do to play to 
one's self, but which are not in the least effective to 
play to other people either in the parlour or in the con- 
cert-room — as Bach's Toccata in 0, for example. Such 
things take a good while to learn, and are of no prac- 
tical advantage afterward. But Deppe has an organ- 
ized plan in everything he does. 

In my study with Kullak when I liad any special 



DEPPE A "MUSICAL SAVANT." 319 

' difficulties, he only said, " Practice always, Fraulein. 
Time will do it for you some day. Hold your hand 
any way that is easiest for you. You can do it in this 
way — or in this way" — showing me different positions 
of the hand in playing the troublesome passage — ^^or 
you can play it with the hack of the hand if that will 
help you any !" But Deppe, instead of saying, " Oh, 
you'll get this after years of practice," shows me how to 
conquer the difficulty now. He takes apiece, and while 
he plays it with the most wonderful fineness of concep- 
tion, he cold-bloodedly dissects the mechanical elements 
of it, separates them, and tells you how to use your hand 
so as to grasp them one after the other. In short, he 
makes the technique and the conception identical, as 
of course they ought to be, but I never had any other 
master who trained his pupils to attempt it. 

Deppe also hears me play, I think, in the true way, 
and as Liszt used to do : that is, he never interrupts me 
in a piece, but lets me go through it from beginning to 
end, and then he picks out the places he has 
noted, and corrects or suggests. These suggestions 
are always something which are not simply for that 
piece alone, but which add to your whole artistic expe- 
rience — Si principle, so to sjDcak. So, without meaning 
any disparagement to the splendid masters to whom I 
owe all my previous musical culture, I cannot help 
feeling that I have at last got into the hands not of 
a mere piano virtuoso, however great, but, rather, 
of a profound musical savant — a man who has been a 
violinist, as well as a director, and who, without being a 
player himself, has made such a study of the piano, that 



320 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

probably all pianists except Liszt might learn some- 
thing from him. You may all think me "enthusiastic," 
or even wild, as much as you like ; but whether or not I 
ever conquer my own block of a hand — which has every 
defect a hand can have ! — when I come home and 
begin teaching you all on Deppe's method, you'll 
succumb to the genius and beauty of it just as com- 
pletely as I have. Y"ou will then all admit I was 

EIGHT ! 

July 22. — I have finally made up my mind to go to 
Pyrmont when Deppe does, and spend several weeks, 
keeping right on with my lessons, and perhaps, giving a 
little concert there. I have always had a curiosity to 
visit one of the German watering places, as I'm told they 
are extremely pleasant. 



Pyrmont, August 1, 1874. 
Here I am in Pyrmont, and there's no knowing where I 
shall turn up next ! FrUulein Steiniger got here before 
me, but Deppe has not yet arrived from Brussels, whither 
he has gone to be present at the yearly exhibition of the 
Conservatoire there. He has been appointed one of the 
judges on piano-playing. Pyrmont is a lovely little 
place. It is in a valley surrounded by hills, heavily 
wooded, and has a beautiful park, as all German towns 
have, no matter how small. The avenues of trees surpass 
anything I ever saw. The soil has something peculiar about 
it, and is particularly adapted to trees. They grow to 
an immense height, and their stems look so strong, and 
their foliage is so tremendously luxuriant, that it seems 
as if they were ready to burst for very life ! 



PYRMONT. 321 



Fraulein Steiniger went with me to look up some 
rooms. Every family in Pyrmont takes lodgers, so 
that it is not difficult to find good accommodations. 
The women are renowned for being good housekeepers 
and their rooms are charmingly fitted up, but the prices 
are very high, as they live the whole year on what they 
make in summer. People come here to drink the waters 
of the springs, and to take the baths, which are said to 
be very invigorating. My rooms are near the principal 
''Allee" or Avenue, leading from the Springs. About 
half way down is a platform where the orchestra sit 
and play three times a day — at seven in the morning 
(which is the hour before breakfast, when it is the thing 
to take a glass or two of the water, and promenade a 
little), at four in the afternoon, when everybody takes 
their coffee in the open air, and at seven in the evening. 
As I don't drink the waters I do not rise early, and am 
usually awakened by the strains of the orchestra. There 
is a little piazza outside my window where I take my 
breakfast and supper. For dinner I go to "table-d'hote " 
at a hotel near. — It is a great relief to get out of 
Berlin and see something green once more. I find the 
weather very cool, however, and one needs warm clothing 
here. 

There are the loveHest walks all about Pyrmont that 
you can imagine, and beautiful wood-paths are cut along 
the sides of the hills. My favourite one is round the cone 
of a small hill to the right of the town. The path com- 
pletely girdles it, and you can start and walk round the 
hill, returning to the point you set out from. It is like 
21 



322 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

a leafy gallery, and before and behind you is always this 
curving vista. Whenever I take the walk it reminds me 
of— 

" Curved is the line of beauty, 
Straight is the line of duty; 
Follow the last and thou shalt see 
The other ever following thee." 

It is the first time I ever succeeded in combining the 
curved and the straight line at the same time — because, 
of course, it is my duty to take exercise ! 



CHAPTER XXVIL 

The Brussels Conservatoire. Steiniger. Excursion to Klein- 
berg. Giving a Concert. Fraulein Timm. 

Pyrmont, August 15, 1874. 
Deppe has got back from Brussels, and, as yon may 
imagine, he had much to tell about his flight into the 
world, particularly as he had also been to London. 
He had a delightful time with the professors of the 
Brussels Conservatoire, who were all extremely polite 
to him, and he heard some talented young pupils. 
There was one girl about seventeen, whom he said 
he would give a good deal to have as his pupil, 
so gifted is she, though her playing did not suit him 
in many respects. He said he could have made some 
severe criticisms, but he refrained — partly because he 
felt the uselessness of it, partly because he says "it is 
extraordinary how amiable one gets when young ladies 
are in question !" He was very enthusiastic over the 
violin classes. "What a bow the youngsters do draw !" 
he exclaimed. Hupont, the great piano teacher inBrus- 
sels, must be a man of considerable ^'esprit" judging 
from the two of his compositions that I am familiar 
with — the "Toccata " and the "Staccato." I used to hear 
a good deal about him from his pupil Gurickx, whom 
I met in Weimar. Certainly Gurickx played magnifi- 
cently, and with a brio I have rarely heard equalled. 
He is like an electric battery. Quite another school, 

(323) 



324 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

however, from Deppe's — the severe, the chaste and the 
classic ! Extreme purity of style is Deppe's charac- 
teristic, and not the passionate or the emotional. For 
instance, he has scarcely given me any Chopin, but 
keeps me among the classics, as he says on that side 
my musical culture has been deficient. He says that 
Chopin has been " so played to death that he ought to 
be put aside for twenty years !" — But if Chopin were 
really sympathetic to him he could never say thatl The 
truth is, the modern " problem atische Natur" has no 
charms for a transparent and simple temperament like 
his. 

Steiniger has been playing most beautifully lately. 
She has given two concerts of her own here, and has 
played at another. Then she rehearsed with orchestra 
Mozart's B flat major concerto — the most difficult 
concerto in the world, and oh, so exquisite ! Though 
I had long wished to do so, I never had heard it 
before, and as I listened I felt as if I never could leave 
Deppe until I could play thatl I wish you could have 
heard it. It is sown with difficulties — enough to make 
your hair stand on end I Steiniger played it with an 
ease and perfection truly astonishing. The notes 
seemed fairly to run out of her fingers for fun. The last 
movement was Mozart all over, just as merry as a 
cricket ! — I doubt whether anybody can play this con- 
certo adequately who has not studied with Deppe. 
The beauty of his method is that the greatest diffi- 
culties become play to you. 

I love to see Deppe direct the orchestra when Stein- 
iger plays a concerto of Mozart. His clear blue eyes 



EXCURSION TO KLEINBERG. 325 

dance in his head and look so sunny, and he stands so 
light on his feet that it seems as if he would dance off 
himself on the tips of his toes, with his baton in his 
hand ! He is the incarnation of Mozart, just as Liszt 
and Joachim are of Beethoven, and Tausig was of 
Chopin. He has a marvellously delicate musical organ- 
ization, and an instinct how things ought to be played 
which amounts to second sight. Fraulein Steiniger 
said to him one day : "Herr Deppe, I don't know why 
it is, but I can't make the oj^ening bars of this piece 
sound right. It doesn't produce the impression it 
ought." " I know why," said Deppe. " It is because 
3^ou don't strike the chord of G minor before you begin," 
— and so it was. When she struck the chord of G- 
minor, it was the right preparation, and brought you 
immediately into the mood for what followed. It 
fixed the key. 

Aside from music, Deppe, like all artists, has the 
most childlike nature, and I think Mozart is so 
peculiarly sympathetic to him because he has such a 
simple and sunny temperament himself. We made 
a beautiful excursion the other day in carriages, through 
the hills, to a little village far distant, where we drank 
coffee in the open air. Deppe, who knows every foot 
of the ground about Pyrmont, which he has frequented 
from his youth up, kept calling our attention to all 
the points of the scenery over and over again with the 
greatest delight, quite forgetting that he repeated the 
same thing fifty times. " That little village over there 
is called Kleinberg. It has a school and a church, and 
the pastor's name is Koehler," he would say to me 



326 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

first. Then he would repeat it to every one in our 
carriage. Then he would stand up and call it over to 
the carriage behind us. Then when he had got out 
he said it to the assembled crowd, and as I walked on 
in advance with Fraulein Estleben, the last thing I 
heard floating over the hill-top was, "The pastor's 
name is Koehler," — so I knew he was still instructing 
some one in the fact. " I wonder how often Deppe 
has repeated that?" I said to Fraulein Estleben. "At 
least fifty times," said she, laughing. " I'm going back 
to him and ask him once more what the name of the 
pastor is." So I went back, and said, " By the way, 
Herr Deppe, what did you say the name of the pastor 
of that village is?" " Koehler,^^ said dear old Deppe, 
with great distinctness and with such simple good faith 
that I felt reproached at having quizzed him, though 
the others could scarcely keep their countenances, as 
they knew what I was after. 

I have been preparing for some time to give a concert 
of Chamber Music in the salon of the hotel here, and ex- 
pect it to take place a week from to-day. My head feels 
quite lame from so much practicing, the consequence, I 
suppose, of so much listening. I am to play a Quin- 
tette, Op. 87, in E major, by Hummel, for piano and 
strings, and a Beethoven Sonata, Op. 12, in E flat, for 
violin and piano, and the other instruments will play a 
Quartette by Haydn in between. It is a beautiful little 
programme, I think — every piece perfect of its kind. 
If I succeed in this concert as I hope, I shall probably 
listen to Deppe's implorings and remain under his 
guidance another season. Deppe believes that one 



GIVING A CONCERT. 327 

miLst go through successive steps of preparation before 
one is fitted to attack the great concert works. I've 
found out (what he took good care not to tell me in 
the beginning !) that his " course " is three years ! ! 
and you can't hurry either him or his method. Your 
fingers have got to grow into it. — I do not at all 
regret, with you, not having hitherto played in con- 
cert ; on the contrary, I think it providential that I 
did not. You see, you and I started out with wholly 
impracticable and ridiculous ideas. We thought that 
things could be done quickly. Well, they can't be 
done quickly and be worth anything. One must 
keep an end in view for years and gradually work up 
to it. The length of time spent in preparation has to 
be the same, whether you begin as a child (which is 
the besto and indeed the only proper way), or whether 
you begin after you have grown up. It is a ten years' 
labour, take it how you will. 



Pyrmont, August 15, 1874. 
My concert came off yesterday evening, and Deppe 
says it was a complete success. I did not play any 
solos, after all, though I had prepared some beautiful 
ones, for Deppe said the programme would be too 
long, and he was not quite sure of my courage. 
".You'd be frightened, if you were a Serr GottT said 
he ; but, contrary to my usual habit, I wasn't fright- 
ened in the least, and I think I did as well as such a 
shaky, trembly concern as I, could have expected, par- 



328 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

ticularly as my hands are two little fiends who worCt 
play if they don't feel like it, do what I will to make 
them ! — My programme was a la Joachim ( !^) — only 
three pieces of Chamber Music : — 

1. Quintette, Op. 87, E major, - - Hummel. 

2. Quartette, G major, .... Haydn. 

3. Sonata for piano and violin, ) -o ., 

Op. 12, E flat. j- - - - ee 

Deppe arranged the whole thing most practically. 
We had a large salle in the Hotel Bremen which was 
admirably proportioned, and a new grand piano from 
Berlin. Deppe had only so many chairs placed as he 
had given out invitations, and the consequence was 
that every chair was filled, and there were no rows of 
empty seats. My "public" Avas very musical and 
critical, and there were so many good judges there 
that I wonder I wasn't nervous ; but a sort of inspi- 
ration came to me at the moment. 

The musicians who accompanied me were exceed- 
ingly good ones for sucli a place as Pyrmont, and my 
strictly classic selections were received with great 
favour by the audience ! That quintette of Hummel's 
is a most charming composition — so flowing and ele- 
gant — and one can display a good deal of virtuosity in 
the last part of it. I played first and last, and the 
quartette in between was performed by the stringed 
instruments alone. After I had finished the quin- 
tette, Deppe, who was at the extreme end of the hall, 
sent me word that I was " doing famously, and that 
he was delighted," and this encouraged me so that my 



THE GOAL AT LAST. 329 



sonata went beautifully, too. When it was over, ever 
so many people came up and congratulated me, and 
Fraulein Timm, Deppe's head teacher in Hamburg, 
even complimented me on my " extraordinary facility 
of execution." I couldn't help laughing at that, with 
my stubborn hand which never will do anything, and 
which only the most intense study has schooled — but 
in truth I was quite surprised myself at the plausible 
way in which it went over all difficulties ! Quite a 
number of Deppe's scholars were present, all of them 
critics and several of them beautiful pianists. Two 
nice American girls, sisters, from the West, came on 
from Berlin on purpose for my concert. They helped 
me dress, and presented me with an exquisite bouquet. 
One of them is taking lessons of Deppe, and the other 
has a great talent for drawing, and has been two 
years studying in Berlin. She says she has only made 
a "beginning" now, and that she wishes to study 
" indefinitely " yet. — So it is in Art ! I think her 
heads are excellent already. 

After the concert was over, Deppe gave me a little 
champagne supper, together with Fr^uleins Timm, 
Steiniger, and these two young ladies. When he 
poured out the wine he said he was going to propose 
a toast to two ladies ; one of them, of course, was 
myself, '^^and the other," said he, "is in America, 
namely, the friend of Fraulein Fay, whom I judge to 
be a woman of genius, so truly and rightly does she 
feel about art (I've translated H's letters to him), 
and so nobly has she sympathized with and stood by 
Fraulein Fay. — To Mrs. A., whose acquaintance I long 



330 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



to make I " — You may be sure I drank to that toast 
with enthusiasm. Ah, it was a pleasant evening, 
after so many years of fruitless toil! The fat 
and jolly old landlord came himself to put me 
into the carriage and to say that everybody in the 
audience had expressed their pleasure and gratifica- 
tion at my performance. I rather regret now that I 
did not play my solos, but perhaps it is just as well to 
leave them until another time. I have " sprung over 
one little mound " — to use Deppe's simile — and got an 
idea of the impetus that will be necessary to "carr}- 
me over the mountain." 



Pyrmont, September 4, 1874. 

After the unwonted exaltation of the success of 
my little concert, I have been suffering a cor- 
responding reaction, partly because Fraulein Timm, 
Deppe's Hamburg assistant, with whom I am now 
studying, began her instructions, as teachers always 
do, by chucking me into a deeper slough of despond 
than usual. Consequently, I haven't been very bright, 
though I am gradually coming up to the surface 
again, for I'm pretty hard to drown ! 

Fraulein Timm belongs to the single sisterhood, 
but is one of the fresh and placid kind, and as neat as 
wax. She's got a great big brain and a remarkable gift 
for teaching, for which she has a passion, I quite 
adore her when she gets on her spectacles, for then 
she looks the personification of Sagacity ! She has 



FRAULEIN TIMM. 331 

been associated with Deppe for years in teaching, and 
" keeps all his sayings and ponders them in her heart." 
Indeed, she knows his ideas almost better than he 
does himself, and carries on the whole circle of pupils 
that he left in Hamburg when he came to Berlin. 
Every now and then he runs down to see how they 
are getting on, gives them all lessons, reviews what 
they have done, and brings FrSulein Timm all the 
new pieces he has discovered and fingered. She also 
comes occasionally to Berlin to see him, takes a lesson 
every day, fills herself with as many new ideas as possi- 
ble, and then returns to her post. Together, they 
form a very strong pair, and I think it a capital illus- 
tration of your theory that men ought to associate 
women with them in their work, and that "men 
should create, and women jt?e7/ec^." 

Deppe makes FrSulein Timm and Fraulein Steini- 
ger his partners and associates in his ideas, and 
the consequence is they add all their ingenuity to 
impart them to others. This spares him much of the 
tedious technical work, and leaves him free for the 
higher spheres of art, as they take the beginners and 
prepare them for him. Se has made them magnifi- 
cent teachers, and they employ their gifts to further 
him. I don't doubt that through them his method 
will be perpetuated, and even if he should die it would 
not be lost to the world. On the other hand, he 
has given them something to live for. — Curious that 
the practicalness of this association with women 
doesn't strike the masculine mind oftener ! 

So I am going down to Hamburg to study for a 



332 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

time with this Fraulein Timm, as I think she will 
develop my hand quicker tlian Deppe, even. Deppe 
has always urged me to it, but I never would do it, 
as I did not know her personally, and did not wish to 
leave him. Now that I have tried her, however, I find 
he was right, as he always is ! At present she is 
throwing her whole weight upon my wrist, which I 
hope will get limber under it ! She has an obstinacy 
and a perseverance in sticking at you that drive 
you almost wild, but make you learn "lots" in 
the end. I think my grand trouble all these years has 
been a stiif wrist and a heavy arm. I have borne 
down too heavily on wrist and arm, whereas the whole 
weight and power must be just in the tips of the 
fingers, and the wrist and arm must be quite light 
and free, the hand turning upon the wrist as if it 
were a pivot. 

Pyrmont is an exquisite little place, and I regret to 
leave it. At first I almost perished with loneliness, 
but now that I have a few acquaintances here I am 
enjoying it. It is a fashionable watering place, but 
chiefly visited by ladies. There are about a hundred 
women to one man ! The first week I was here I 
lived at a Herr S.'s, but finding it too expensive I 
looked up another lodging and am now living with a 
jolly old maid. I like living with old maids. I think 
they are much neater than married women, and they 
make you more comfortable. As the season is now 
over, this one's house is quite empty, and it is ex- 
quisitely kept. I took two rooms in the third story, 
small but very cozy, and with a lovely view of the 
hills. 



AN ILLUMINATED FOUNTAIN. 335 

We have just had the loveliest illumination I ever 
saw. It was one Sunday evening — "Golden Sunday" 
they call it here, though why they should call it so, I 
know not. I accepted the information, however, with- 
out inquiry into first causes, and went out in the even- 
ing to promenade in the Allee with the rest. The 
AUee is not all on a level, but descends gradually 
from the springs to a fountain which is at the op- 
posite end. Rows and rows of Japanese lanterns 
were festooned across the trees. As you walked down 
the path, you saw the festoons one below the other. 
The fountain was illuminated with gas jets behind 
the water. You could not see the water till you got 
close up, and at a distance only the rows of gas jets were 
apparent. As you neared it, however, the watery veil 
seemed flung over them, like the foamy tulle over 
a bride. It was very fascinating to look at, and I 
kept receding a few paces and then returning. As I 
receded, the watery veil would disappear, and as 
I approached it \fould again take form. It reminded 
me of some people's characters, of which you see the 
bright points from the first, and think you know them 
so well, but when you draw closer, even in the mo- 
ments of greatest intimacy, you always feel a veil 
between you and them — a thin, impalpable something 
which you cannot annihilate, even though you may 
see through it. 

"We walked up and down the Allee a long time list- 
ening to the orchestra, which was playing. The 
magnificent great trees looked more beautiful than 
ever, with their lower boughs lit up by the lanterns^ 



334 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

and their upper ones disappearing mysteriously into 
shadow. At last the tapers in the lanterns burned out 
one after another, the avenue was wrapped in gloom, 
and we finished this poetic evening in the nsual 
prosaic manner by returning home and going te bed ! 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 



Music in Hamburg. Studying Chamber Music. Absence 

of Religion in Germany. South Americans. 

Deppe once more. A Concert 

Debut. Postscript. 

Hambukg, February 1, 1875. 

Hamburg is a lovely city, though I am having such a 
dreadfully dreary and stupid time here — partly because 
my boarding-place is so intensely disagreeable, and 
partly because I made up my mind when I came to 
make no acquaintances and to do nothing but study. 
I have stuck to my resolution, though I'm not sure it 
is not a mistake, for there is a most elegant and lux- 
urious society in this ancestral town of ours.* 

Life is solid and material here, however, and music is 
at a low ebb. The Pliilharmonic concerts are wretched, 
and nobody goes to even the few piano concerts there 
are. That little Laura Kahrer, now Frau Rappoldi, that 
I heard in Weimar at Liszt's, has been wanting to come 
here with her husband, who is an eminent violinist, but 
she has not dared to do it, because all the musicians 
tell her she would not make her expenses. She played 
at the Philharmonic, too, but .since then they won't 
have any more piano playing at the Philharmonic. 



♦The writer's grandmother was the daughter of a leading Hamburg mer- 
chant who fled with his family to America when Napoleon entered it. 

(335) 



336 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

Nobody cares for it, unless Biilow or Rubinstein or 
Clara Schumann are the performers. I thought Frau 
Rappoldi played magnificently, but I was the only per- 
son who did think so. She made a dead failure here. 
Everybody was down on her. As to the criticism, it was 
about like this : " Frau Rappoldi played quite pret- 
tily and in a lady-like manner, but she had no tone, 
etc." Poor thing! The next day when Schubert 
went to see her she wept bitterly, and well she might. 
Schubert is one of the directors of the Philharmonic, 
and it was through him she got the chance of playing. 
He, too, felt awfully cut ujd at her want of success. 
" That is what one gets," said he to me, " by recom- 
mending people. If they don't succeed, you get all 
the blame for it." He felt he had burnt his fingers ! 
I think the whole secret of Frau Rappoldi's want of 
success was that she did not look pretty. She was so 
dowdily dressed, and her hair looked like a Feejee 
Islander's. People laughed at her before she began. 
Too true I — that " dress makes the woman."* 

Deppe's darling Fannie Warburg gave a concert here 
last month, and she, also, got a pretty poor criticism, 
and for the same reason,viz. : people haven't the musical 
sense to appreciate her — at least in my opinion. The 
action of her hands on the piano is grace itself, and 
the elasticity of her wrist is wonderful. Her touch 
completely realizes Deppe's ideal of " letting the notes 
fall from the finger-tips like drops of water," and she- 
executes better with the left hand, if that be possible, 
than with the right ! At any rate, there is 7io differ- 



♦Frau Rappoldi is now a celebrity. 



THE DEPPE "SCHOOL." 337 

ence. It is the most heavenly enjoyment to hear her, 
and you feel as if you would like to have her go on 
forever. And yet, I don't believe she will make a great 
career. She has not fire enough to make the public ap- 
preciate the immensity of her performance. No rush — 
no abandon! She has no presence either, but is a 
timid, meek, childlike little maiden — docility itself, but 
a made player, as it were, not a spontaneous one. Such 
is life ! To me, her playing is the purest music — ''die 
reine MusW^ — and the bigger the hall the more that 
tone of hers rolls out and fills it ! 



Hamburg, March 1, 1875. 
I wish I could write up Deppe's system for publica- 
tion, but it is a very difficult thing to give any ade- 
quate idea of. Fraulein Timm tells me it is only 
comparatively recently that he has perfected it him- 
self to its present point (though he has long had the 
conception of it), and that accounts for its not being 
known. He was completely buried in Hamburg, 
where there is no scope for art. I believe his ambition 
is to found a School of this exquisitely pure and per- 
fect and almost idealized piano-playing, which may 
serve as a counterpoise to the warmer and more sen- 
suous prevailing one — sculpture as contrasted with 
painting! 

I have beeu'chiefly studying Kammer-Musik (Cham- 
ber Music) this winter — that is, trios, quartettes, etc. 
Fraulein Timm is giving me such a training as I never 
had before. She has the most astonishing talent for 



338 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

teaching, and has reduced it to a science. I don't play 
anything up to tempo under her — always slow, slow, 
slow. She really dissects every tone, and shows me 
when and why it doesn't sound well. My whole atten- 
tion is now bent upon to7ie. Ah, M., that's the thing 
in playing ! — To bring out the soul there is in the key 
simply by touching it, as the great masters do. — It is 
the pianist's highest art, though amid the dazzle of 
piano pyrotechnics the public often forget it. 

I am just finishing Beethoven's third Trio, Op. 1. 
The last movement is the loveliest thing ! It makes 
me think of a wood in spring filled with birds. One 
minute you hear a lot of gossiping little sparrows 
twittering and chippering, and then comes some rare 
wild bird with a sort of cadence, and then come others 
and whistle and call. It is bewitching, and the most 
perfect imitation of nature imaginable ; gay — so gay ! 
as only Beethoven can be when he begins to play. 
Everything is on the wing. It is, of course, exceedingly 
difficult, because, like all this pure, classic music, to 
make any effect it has to be executed with the utmost 
perfection. I am so infatuated with it that when I 
get through practicing it, I feel as if I were tipsy ! 

These Beethoven trios are a perfect mine in them- 
selves. Each one seems to be entirely different from 
all the rest. There are twelve in all, and Deppe wants 
me to learn them all. Think what a piece of work ! 
This enormous amount of literature that you must 
have to form a repertoire — the trios, quartettes, quin- 
tettes, concertos, etc., it is that makes it so long before 
one is a finished artist. And then you must consider 



A DOMESTIC TYRANT. 339 

the hours and hours that go to waste on studies, just 
to get your hand into a condition to play these master- 
pieces. Oh, the arduousness of it is incalculable ! I 
often ask myself, "What demon has tempted me here ?" 
as I sit and drudge at the piano. I play all day, take 
a walk with L. in the afternoon, and at night tumble 
into bed and sleep like a log — that is, when my hardest 
of beds and shivering room will let me sleep. That is 
my life, day after day. I only see the people of the 
house at meals. 

I am the only lady in this family. All the other 
boarders are very young men, almost boys, who are 
here to learn German or commerce. There are three 
South Americans, one Portugese, one Brazilian, one 
Kussian and one Frenchman. I hear Spanish and 
French all the while, but no English, and with the 
German it is very confusing. — I feel very sorry for all 
these young fellows, their lives are so bare and disa- 
greeable, and so wholly devoid of any influence that can 
make them better or happier. As for our landlady, it 
would take a Balzac to do justice to such a combination. 
She is a good housekeeper. The cooking is excellent, 
and my room (when warm) is pleasant. Indeed, the 
Hamburg standard of housekeeping is much higher 
than in Berlin. Things are much daintier. But her 
power of making you physically and mentally uncom- 
fortable in other ways is unsurpassed. Were it not 
that my stay is indefinite, and that I have already 
moved once, I would not remain here. As it is, I pre- 
fer putting up with it to the trouble and expense of 
changing ; beside which, I have found that when once 



340 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

you have left your own home-circle, you have to bear, 
as a rule, with at least one intensely disagreeable per- 
son in every house. 

My opinion of human nature has not risen since I 
came abroad, and I think tliat this winter has quite 
cured me of my natural tendency to skepticism. — I 
now realize too well what people's characters, both men 
and women, may become without religion either in 
themselves or in those about them. I suppose there 
is religion in Germany, but I have seen very little of 
it, either in Protestants or Catholics, and the results 
I consider simply dreadful ! You see, there is no ade- 
quate motive to check the indulgence of any impulse 
— I have come to the conclusion that jealousy is the 
national vice of the Germans. Everybody is jealous 
of everybody else, no matter how absurdly or cause- 
lessly. Old women are jealous of young ones, and 
even sisters in the same family are jealous of each 
other to a degree that I couldn't have believed, had I 
not seen it. 



Hamburg, Easter Sunday, 1875. 

With regard to playing in concert, I find myself 
doubting whether on general principles it is best to 
get one's whole musical trainino^ under one master 
only, as Fannie Warburg, for instance, has done ; for 
my experience teaches me that though nearly all 
masters can give you something, none can give you 
everything. If, with my present light, I could 
begin my study over again, I should first stay three 



"CONCERT PLAYING IS ROUTINE." 341 

years with Deppe, in order to endow the spirit of 
music that I hope is within me, with the outward form 
and perfection of an artist. Next, I should study a year 
with Kullak, to give my playing a brilliant concert dress, 
and finally, I would sj^end two seasons with Liszt, in 
order to add the last ineffable graces — (for never, 
never should an artist complete a musical course 
without going to Liszt, while he is on this earth !) 
— The trouble is, however, that one master always feels 
hurt if you leave him for another ! No one can bear 
the imputation that he canH " give you everything." 
But in truth I am getting very impatient to be 
at home where I can study by myself, and take 
as much time as I think necessary to work up my 
pieces. Deppe and Fraulein Timm are like Kullak in 
one thing. They never will give me time enough, but 
hurry me on so from one thing to another, that it is 
impossible for me to prepare a programme. So I 
have given up my plan of a concert in Berlin this 
spring. They have one set of ideas and I another, 
and I see I shall never be able to play in public until 
I abandon masters and start out on my own course. 
Two people never think exactly alike. Masters can 
put you on the road, but they can't make you go. 
You must do that for yourself. As Dr. V. says, 
" If you want to do a thing you have got to keep doing 
it. You mustn't stop — certainly not !" Concert-play- 
ing, like everything else, is routine, and has got to be 
learned by little and little, and perhaps, with many 
half -failures. But if the " great public " will only tol- 
erate one as a pupil long enough, eventually, one 
22 



342 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY 

must succeed. At any rate, it is probably tlie best and 
the only " master " for me now ! 

On Wednesday I return for awhile to Berlin, to the 
American boarding-house, No. 15 Tauben Strasse, 
whither you can all direct 9S formerly. This winter has 
been rather a contrast to last. Then I lived entirely 
among North Americans, whereas here I am almost 
exclusively with South Americans. There are any r um- 
ber of these latter in Hamburg, and you have no idea 
how fascinating many of them are — so handsome and so 
bright. They all have a talent for music and dancing. 
Their music is entirely of a light character, but they 
have rhythm and grace in a remarkable degree. 
When I hear them play I always think of George 
Sands's description in her novel "Malgre-toui'' oi 
the artist Abel — the liero of the book, and a great 
violinist. She says, " II racla un air sur son violon 
avec entrain^ — Tliat is just what these South Ameri- 
cans do — " racier V They all play the piano just as 
with us the negro plays the fiddle, without instruction, 
apparently, and simply because "it is their nature to." 
I saw at once where Gottschalk got liis " Banjo" and 
" Bananier," and the peculiar style of his compositions 
generally, and since I've met so many South Ameri- 
cans I can readily imagine why he spent so much of 
his time in South America. I long to go there myself. 
I tliink it must be a fascinating place for an artist. 

One of the South Americans here at the house is a 
boy of fifteen, named Juan di Livramento, or, I should 
say, Juan Moreiro Aranjo di Livramento ! (They all 
have about a dozen names in the grandiloquent style 



A SPANISH AMERICAN. 343 

of the Spaniards.) This boy is a curious youngster. He 
is tall and lithe, with the most magnificent dark eyes 
I ever saw or conceived, thick silky black hair, all in 
a tumble about his head, a delicate and very expressive 
face, and a clear olive complexion — a perfect type of 
a Spaniard. He seems born to dance the Bolero, like 
Belinda, in Mrs. Edwards's novel. It is the prettiest 
thing to see him do it — and in fact he does it on 
all occasions without any reference to propriety, 
being an utterly lawless individual. He frequently 
gets up from the dinner-table, throws his napkin over 
his shoulders, snaps his thumbs, and begins a dance in 
the corner of the room, between the courses. It has 
got to be such an every-day thing that nobody looks 
surprised or pays any attention to him. We dine late, 
and as there are a good many boarders, it takes some 
time always to change the plates. Juan, who is like 
so much mercury, never can sit still during these 
intervals. When asked to jing the bell for the ser- 
vant, he will spring up like a shot, give it a violent 
pull, and then take advantage of being up to dance in 
the corner, or at least to cut a few antics, fling his 
leg over the back of his chair, and come down astride 
of it. This is his usual mode of resuming his seat. 

On the days when he doesn't dance, he keeps up a 
continual talking. He will rattle on in Spanish till 
Herr S. gets desperate, and tries to reduce him to 
order. It is a rule that German must be spoken at 
table, but Juan thinks it sufficient if he ajoplies the rule 
only so far as not to speak Spanish, his native lan- 
guage. He goes to school where, of course, he learns 



344 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

English and French, and he is always trying to get otf 
some remarks in these languages. He speaks all 
wrong, but that does not cause him the least embar- 
rassment. — On Sundays especially is Juan perfectly 
irrepressible, for then Frau S. goes to dine and 
spend the evening with her parents, and Herr S. is 
left to maintain order. He is an indulgent old man, 
and very fond of Juan, so that the latter has not the 
least fear of him, and I nearly die trying to keep my 
face straight when they have one of their scenes. 

" You shall NOT speak Spanish at the table," said 
poor old S. the other day, in a rage. Spanish is 
jargon to him, and Juan had been talking it for some 
time at the top of his voice across Herr S., to his 
friend Candido, who sat opposite. Juan knew very 
well that that meant he must speak German, but 
instead of that he began in foreign languages, and 
said to Herr S., in English, "Do you spoke Rus- 
sish (Do you speak Russian) ?" 

Herr S., to whom English is as unintelligible as 
Spanish, naturally making no reply to this brilliant 
remark, Juan continued — " ' Spring is Coming,' Poem 
by James K. Blake," and then he began to recite with 
much gesticulation — 

"Spring is coming, spring is coming, 
Birds are singing, insects humming; 
Flowers are peeping from their sleeping, 
Streams escape from winter's keeping, etc." 

Ijwon't pretend to say what the rest of it was, as his 
pronunciation was utterly unintelligible. Herr S. 
rolled up his eyes and made no further protest, for he 



SPANISH EYES. 345 



found he only got " out of the frying-pan into the fire," 
Juan having a historical anecdote called " The Dead 
Watch/' which he occasionally substitutes for the 
poem. 

After dinner he generally has an affectionate turn, 
and goes round the table shaking hands with those 
still seated, or putting his arm around their necks, and 
then he seems like some gentle wild animal which 
comes and rubs its head up against you, and it is 
impossible to help loving him. As soon, however, as 
T. or anybody thrums a waltz on the piano, he 
instantly throws himself into the attitude to dance. 
He is so very light on his feet that you don't hear 
him, and often I am surprised on looking up, without 
thinking, to see Juan poised on one toe like a ballet 
dancer, and his great eyes shining soft on me like two 
suns. It is most peculiar. There are no eyes like the 
Spanish eyes. Not only have they so much fire, but 
when their owners are in a sentimental mood, they can 
throw a languor and a sort of droop into them that is 
irresistible. This is the way Juan does, and though he 
is too young to be sentimental, he looks as if he were. 
One minute he is all ablaze, and the next perfectly 
melting. — The other day Frau S. took him to task 
for his extreme animation. — " Jiuige,^" (German for 
"Boy"),"you mustn't scream so all over the house. You 
really are a nuisance." Juan was offended at this, and 
began to defend himself. "Why do you scold me," he 
said. "I'm always in good humour. I never sulk or 
find fault with anything. Ja, immer vergnugt (Yes, 
always in a good humour), and ready to amuse every- 



346 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

body, and I never get angry." Frau S. admitted 
that was true, but at the same time suggested it would 
be well for him to remember we were not all deaf. 
Juan withdrew in dudgeon. — Well, I suppose you are 
tired of hearing about him, but these South Americans 
are a type by themselves, and I felt as if I must touch 
off one of them for the benefit of the family. 



Berlin, April 18, 1875. 
Since my return I have been enjoying extremely 
w^hat I suppose I must consider my last lessons with 
Deppe. After studying with Fraulein Timm I know 
much better what he is driving at. The technique 
seems to be unfolding to me like a ribbon. So all her 
maulings were to some purpose ! Yesterday I played 
him a sonata of Beethoven's and he said, " God grant 
that you may still be left to me some time longer ! 
Now you are really beginning to be my scholar." — And 
indeed, having studied his technique so long with Friiu- 
leins Timm and Steiniger, it does seem hard that I 
have to leave him ! How I wish I could stay on in- 
definitely and give myself up to his purely musical side 
and get the benefit of all his deep and beautiful ideas. 
There never was such a teacher ! If I could only come 
up to his standard I should be perfectly happy. Lucky 
girl — that Steiniger ! Think of it ! She has nine con- 
certos that she could get up for concert any minute. 
That's the crushing kind of repertoire he gives his pu- 
pils — so exhaustive and complete in every depart- 
ment. He knows the whole piano literature, and is 



A "FRIEND IN NEED." 347 



continually fishing up some new or old pearl or other 
to surprise one with. 

I find Deppe is getting to be much more recognized 
in Berlin this year than he was before. He has just 
been directing a new opera here which has created 
quite a sensation, and he is continually engaged in 
some great work. Fortunate that I found him out 
when I did ! for he takes fewer pupils than ever. He 
says he can't teach people who are not sympathetic to 
him. The other day he presented a beautiful overture 
of his own composition to the Duke of Mecklenburg, 
who accepted it in person and sent Deppe an exquisite 
pin in token of recognition. When simple little Deppe 
gets tliat stuck in his scarf, he will be a terrific swell ! 

Now for a piece of news ! I was paying my French 
teacher, Mademoiselle D., a call one evening last week, 
and I played for her and for a friend of hers who is 
very musical, and who gives lessons herself. She at 
once said very decidedly that I " ought to be heard in 
concert." Her brother is the director of the Philhar- 
monic Society in a place called Frankfurt-an-der- 
Oder — a little city not far from here. What should 
she do but write to her brother about me, and what 
should he do but immediately write up for me to come 
down and play in a Philharmonic concert there the first 
week in May. As I have been so anxious to play in a 
concert before leaving G-ermany, and yet have seen no 
way to do it, I am going, of course, and am most grate- 
ful to his sister for thinking of it. But it is always 
the Unexpected that helps you out ! 



348 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



Berlin, May 13, 1875. 

Well, dear, my little debut Avas a decided suc- 
cess, and I had one encore, beside being heartily 
applauded after every piece. 1 went on to Frankfurt 
on Monday morning, and when I got there Herr Oert- 
ling, the Philharmonic Director, was at the station to 
meet me with a droschkie. We drove to the Deutches 
Haus, an excellent hotel, where I was shown into a large 
and comfortable room. Here I rested until dinner 
time, and after dinner, about five o'clock, Herr 
Oertlins; came back. He took me to the house of 
a musical friend of his who was to lend me his grand 
piano, and there we tried our sonata. As soon as 
Oertling touched his violin I saw that he was a supe- 
rior artist, and that immediately inspired me. His 
playing carried me right along, and I think I played 
well. At all events, he seemed entirely satisfied, and 
said, " We could have played that sonata without re- 
hearsing it." After we finished the sonata, I played 
for about an hour, all sorts of things. There were 
quite a number of people present to judge of my 
powers. Herr W., the owner of the piano, was a 
remarkable judge of music, and made some excellent 
criticisms and suggestions. We stayed there to sup- 
per, but I went back to the hotel early and went to 
bed about half -past nine, where I slept like a log till 
eight the next morning. 

After breakfast Oertling came to take me to try the 
pianos of a celebrated manufacturer of uprights. 
I played there three or four hours. The maker's name 



THE WRITER PLAYS IN CONCERT. 349 



was Gruss, and his pianos were the best uprights 
I liad ever seen ; nearly as powerful as a grand, and 
with a superb tone and action. On the wall was 
a testimonial from Henselt, framed. It seems Hen- 
selt goes to Frankfurt every year to visit a Rus- 
sian lady there, who is the grandee of the place 
and a great patroness of artists. In the afternoon, 
Oertling came for me to go and rehearse in the 
hall. Everything went beautifully, and I returned to 
the hotel in good spirits. By the time I was dressed 
for the concert, which was to begin at seven, Oertling 
ap23eared again, in evening costume, and presented me 
with a bouquet. AVe drove to the hall through a pour- 
ing rain. It was crowded, notwithstanding, for he 
had had the assurance to print that the concert was 
" to be brilliant through the performance of an Ameri- 
can Virtuosin, named Miss Amy Fay. This young 
lady has studied with the greatest masters, and has 
had the most perfect success everywhere in her con- 
cert tours ! " Did you ever ! — You can imagine how 
I felt on reading it and seeing that I was expected to 
perform as if I had been on the stage all my life ! 
Oertling had arranged the programme judiciously. 
Our sonata came first, so that I plunged right in and 
didn't have to wait and tremble ! Then came two 
pieces by the orchestra; next, my three solos in a 
row, and a symphony of Haydn closed the programme. 
The sonata went off very smoothly. In my first solo 
I occasionally missed a note, but my second was with- 
out slip, and my third — Chopin's Study in Sixths — 
was encored, though I took the tempo too fast. How- 



350 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 



ever, the Fran Excellency von X. said she had fre- 
quently heard it from Henselt, but that I played it 
" just as well as he did." That's absurd, of course, 
though not bad considered as a compliment! They 
all said, " What a pity Henselt wasn't here !" I said to 
myself, "What a blessing Henselt wasn't !" — though I 
would give much to see him, as he is the greatest piano 
virtuoso in the world after Liszt. 

After the concert Oertling and some of the musi- 
cians accompanied me to the hotel, where I was obliged 
to sit at table and have my health drunk in cham- 
pagne till two o'clock in the morning ! for you know 
when the Germans once begin that sort of thing 
there's no end to it. They drank to my health, and 
then they drank to my future performance in the first 
Philharmonic next season, and then they drank to our 
frequent reunion, etc., etc. When they had finished 
I had to respond. So I toasted the Herr Director and 
I toasted the piano-maker, and I toasted the orchestra, 
and what not. At last I was released and could go to 
my room. The next morning I left for Berlin, which 
I reached in time for dinner, and as soon as I appeared 
at table the boarders saluted me with a burst of ap- 
plause ! — I found it a very pleasant finale. 

I translate for you the criticism from the Frank- 
furter Zeitimg und Allgemeiner Anzeiger for May 11. 
Herr Oertling sent it to me yesterday : 

" The Philharmonic concert which took place last 
Eriday evening, must be considered as an excellent rec- 
ommendation of the active members of that associa- 
tion to the public. For not only did the playing of 



A WORD OF WARNING. 351 

the pianist, Franlein Amy Fay, give great pleasure to 
all those who love and understand music, but there 
was also no fault to be found with the interpretations 
of the orchestra. * * * With regard to the 
performance of Franlein Fay, we were equally charmed 
by her clear and certain touch and by her conception 
of tlie various solo pieces she played. The concert 
opened with the Sonata in E flat major for violin and 
piano by Beethoven. The whole effect of the work 
was a very sympathetic and satisfactory one, and 
showed a thoughtful interpretation on the part of the 
artist. The beauty of her conception was especially 
evident in the Raff "Capriccio," and in Killer's "Zur 
Guitarre," given as an encore upon her recall by the 
audience, and we can but congratulate the teacher of 
the young lady, Herr Ludwig Deppe, of Berlin, upon 
such a scholar." 



[Two weeks after the concert, the relative to whom 
most of the foregoing letters were written, joined the 
writer at Berlin, and the correspondence came to an 
end. In the following September, after an absence 
of six years, my sister returned home. — My sister 
hopes that no American girl who reads this book will 
be influenced by it rashly to attempt what she herself 
undertook, viz. : to be trained in Europe from an ama- 
teur into an artist. Its pages have afforded glimpses, 
only, of the trials and difficulties with which a girl 
may meet when studying art alone in a foreign land, 
but they should not therefore be underrated. Piano 



352 MUSIC-STUDY IN GERMANY. 

teaching has developed immensely in America since 
the date of the first of the foregoing letters, and not 
only such celebrities as Dr. William Mason, Mr. Wm. 
H. Sherwood, and Mrs. Eive King, but various other 
brilliant or exquisite pianists in this country are as able 
to train pupils for the technical demands of the con- 
cert-room as any masters that are to be found abroad. 
American teachers best understand the American 
temperament, and therefore are by far the best 
for American pupils until they have got beyond the 
pupil stage. — Not manual skill, but musical insight 
and conception, wider and deeper musical comprehen- 
sion, and " concert style " are what the young artist 
should now go to seek in that marvellous and only 
real home of music — Germany.] — Ed. 



New EditioUf re-written and greatly enlarged. 



WOMAN IN MUSIC. 

By George P. Upton, Author of "The Standard Operas," etc. 
i6mo, 222 pages. Price, $i.oo. 

"Woman in Music," by George P. Upton, the author of 
" Standard Operas" and other valuable contributions to musical 
literature, is a novel venture in literature and full of interest and 
suggestion. Its facts and illustrations, drawn from unusually- 
wide reading, are very fresh and curious, and the charming little 
brochure might justly be said to contain the romance of musical 
history. 

It is divided into three parts. In the first, the author discusses 
the much vexed question why so few women have been gifted with 
musical creative power of the highest order, and traces the real 
relations of woman to music. 

In the second part, the influence of woman in inspiring the 
highest musical composition is shown in a series of short biograph- 
ical sketches of Bach, Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, Schubert, 
Schumann, Mendelssohn, Chopin, Handel, Weber, and Wagner. 
This part of the work is specially interesting and valuable, as it 
is replete with information not generally accessible, and reveals to 
the world many highly romantic episodes, and pictures the domes- 
tic phases of the lives of the great composers. 

In the third part, the relations of woman to the performance of 
vocal and instrumental music are considered, and numerous obser- 
vations of value are given which the author has gathered from his 
many years of experience as a musical critic. In following out this 
part of his subject he briefly reviews the careers of the most noted 
queens of song of the last two centuries, and cites opinions of 
contemporary criticism. 

An additional interest is given by an appendix containing a list 
of the prominent female composers of the past three centuries, and 
a list of the women to whom the great masters have dedicated 
their more important works. 

The book is the result of a very wide gleaning in the out-of-the- 
way fields of musical literature, and will be very fascinating to 
all who are interested in the more romantic phases of musical his- 
tory and biography. 

Sold by all booksellers, or mailed, postpaid, on 
receipt of price by the publishers, 

A. C. McCLURG & COMPANY, 

(Successors to Jansen, McClurg, & Co.) 
Con Wabash Ave. and Madison St., Chicago. 



"ilf n Upton's hook is fully abreast of the times/' 

— Tke Nation. 

THE STANDARD OPERAS. 

Their Plots, their Music, and their Composers. 

BY GEORGE P. UPTON. 

i2mo. Price, $1.50. 

" The summaries of the plots are so clear, logical and well 
written that one can read them with real pleasure, which cannot 
be said of the ordinary operatic synopses." — The Nation. 

" Each group of operas is preceded by an admirably brief and 
clear sketch of the career of their composer, and the exposition 
given of the character and standing of the several works is always 
tnodest and judicious. In a word, Mr. Upton has done well a 
work that was thoroughly worth doing." — Times, Chicago. 

" Mr. Upton has performed a service that can hardly be too 
highly appreciated in collecting the plots, music, and the com- 
posers of the standard operas, to the number of sixty-four, and 
bringing them together in one perfectly arranged volume. 
His work is one simply invaluable to the general reading public. 
Technicalities are avoided, the aim being to give to musically un- 
educated lovers of the opera a clear understanding of the works 
they hear. It is description, not criticism, and calculated to 
greatly increase the intelligent enjoyment of music. The little 
volume is charmingly gotten up." — Travellei', Boston. 

" Among the multitude of handbooks which are published every 
year, and are described by easy-going writers of book notices as 
supplying a long-felt want, we know of none which so completely 
carries out the intentions of the writer as 'The Standard Operas' 
by Mr. George P. Upton, whose object is to present to his readers 
a comprehensive sketch of each of the operas contained in the 
modern repertory. . . . There are thousands of m-usic-ioving 
people who will be glad to have the kind of knowledge which Mr. 
Upton has collected for their benefit, and has cast in a clear and 
compact form." — i?. H. Stoddard, in '^ Evening AI ail atid Express " 
New York, 

Sold by all Booksellers, or mailed, postpaid, on 
receipt of price by tine publisiiers, 

A. C. McCLURG & COMPANY, 

(Successors to Jansen, McClurg, & Co.,) 
Wabashi Ave. and Madison St., Chicago. 



'"A very channing sketch of a most interesting 
character,'' — Boston Congregationalist. 



LIFE OF MOZART. 

From the German of Dr. Louis Nohl. With portrait. 

Price, $i.oo. 

" The work was well worthy of translation, for it is a model of 
short biography, containing all that the student need know to un- 
derstand fully the works of the great composer. The translator 
has done his work in a very creditable manner, and the publishers 
have given it an appropriate dress." — Traveller, Boston. 

" The story of Mozart's life is told in language that fascinates 
by a simplicity and directness which impart delightful color to 
the attending recital of facts. . . We consider it advisable for 
every student in music to possess this book, for it is one of the 
most pleasing and instructive biographies of a musical composer 
that has been published for a long time. It is convenient in form 
and exquisitely tasteful in dress." — Home Journal, Boston, 

" It is scarcely possible to write about Mozart without some 
warmth of enthusiasm, but Herr Nohl has an intelligent appre- 
ciation of the greatness of his genius, and of the important influ- 
ence of his work upon modern dramatic music, so that he gives 
us some genuine criticism along with his fine writing." — Times, 
Philadelphia. 

•' It is a translation from the German of Louis Nohl, a writer 
who adds to literary tastes the familiarity with music which is 
especially desirably in the biography of a musical genius like Mo- 
zart. The brevity of the biography has not been secured at the 
expense of its style or of its fullness as a personal record — the for- 
mer being clear, elegant and unambitious, and the latter a rounded 
and sympathetic outline of the incidents of Mozart's brief and 
checkered life, particularly of those that exerted a formative or 
modifying influence upon his character as a man, or upon the 
development of his genius as an artist." — Harper's Monthly. 

Sold by all booksellers, or mailed, postpaid, on 
receipt of price by the publishers, 

A. C. McCLURG & COMPANY, 

(Successors to Jansen, McClurg, & Co.) 
Cor. Wabash Ave. and Madison St., Chicago. 



* ^ A vivid picture of his life,^' — The Nation. 



LIFE OF BEETHOVEN. 

From the German of Dr. Louis Nohl. With portrait. 

Price, $i.oo. 

" It gives in small compass a sympathetic and successful pic- 
ture of the struggles and successes of this great but melancholy 
genius." — Christian Advocate, Neiv York. 

" In this book there is much for music students to linger over, 
and those who love to follow the great masters' career will find 
this story of the life of the greatest of them all peculiarly fascin- 
ating. No student can fully understand the great works of musi- 
cal art until he knows and can sympathize with the inner nature 
of the worker. " — Musical Visitor, Cincintiati, 

" Nohl has a devoted love for the great composer and musician, 
and this he most beautifully imparts to his enthusiastic tribute, 
which is, nevertheless, a carefully written and just biography." — 
Hotne Journal, Boston. 

" The biography is accurate, and it has the especial value of 
connecting each one of Beethoven's important works quite clearly 
with the circumstances and moods under which it was composed. 
It meets the purpose of a popular biography unusually well." — 
Times, Philadelphia. 

" The reader of this biography will stand in awe before the 
transcendent genius of the grand artist, and sorrowfully remember 
how poorly he was compensated for his great services during the 
sorrowful years of his life upon the earth. The book is one of 
absorbing interest, clearly and concisely written, and deserving of 
an honored place in every library." — Inter Ocean, Chicago. 

" How he lived and moved and acted in the flesh, and his suc- 
cessive trials, triumphs, and crowning glories are set forth in this 
acceptable volume with accuracy, graphic power, and most inter- 
esting particularity of detail. Whosoever hath music in his soul 
will read the work with avidity." — Evening Post, San Francisco. 

Sold by all booksellers, or mailed, postpaid, on 
receipt of price by the publislners, 

A. C. McCLURG & COMPANY, 

(Successors to Jansen, McClurg, & Co.) 
Cor. Wabasli Ave. and Madison St., Chicago. 



'^ A well told story of a romantic life,''— Philadelphia 

Inquirer. 

LIFE OF HAYDN. 

From the German of Dr. Louis Nohl, by George P. Upton. With 

portrait. Price, $i.oo, 

" While this biography is scholarly in a musical as well as liter- 
ary sense, it is yet so full of anecdote, and so bright in its social 
sketches, as to be wholly interesting, and makes a capital book to 
be read by musical students as well as by those who thirst for 
general intelligence." — Christian Advocate, N'e'v York. 

' ' A pleasant and vivid series of portraits of Haydn as child, 
youth and student, man and artist, that linger lovingly in the 
reader's mind long after the book is thrown aside. The work 
treats his life in detached epochs, and is devoted to the discussion 
of the results attained and their effect upon the musical world 
to-day. It is a handy little volume, alike in price, size, and char- 
acter, and is pretty sure of meeting the popular demand." — Post^ 
Boston. 

" A highly interesting picture of the genial, sensitive, and lov- 
able man, and a critically appreciative account of his career as a 
composer. . . . No fuller history of his career, the society in 
which he moved and of his personal life can be found than is 
given in this work." — Gazette, Bostoji. 

"It is an admirable translation, and records in simple style the 
story of the genial musician and lovable man, still known, after 
almost a century's elapse, among his own people by the endearing 
appellation of ' Papa.' " — Express, Buffalo. 

" Dr Nohl's Life of Haydn, translated from the German by 
George P. Upton, we cordially recommend as an excellent trans- 
lation of a standard work, certain to interest and serve the music 
student. Dr. Nohl's biography is unique in respect to the 
strongly personal and private insight into Haydn the man, it 
affords us. Few artistic natures have been so well balanced, so 
pure and single in aim, and are worthier of study. . . It is a 
book to be praised and welcomed in English dress." — Independent, 
New York. 

Sold by all booksellers, or mailed, postpaid, on 
receipt of price by the publishers, 

A. C. McCLURG & COMPANY, 

(Successors to Jansen, McClurg, & Co.) 

Cor. Wabash Ave. and Madison St., Chicago. 



** An enthusiastic biography of the great musical 
magician of to-day, '' — Christian Union, New York. 



LIFE OF LISZT. 

From the German of Dr. Louis Nohl, by George P. Upton. With 

portrait. Price, $i.00. 

" It is a most interesting and instructive volume, the only 
biography of Liszt, in English, which has appeared thus far in 
this country. We recommend it to all lovers of music." — Musical 
World, Cleveland. 

"It is more than a mere biography of the great musician ; it 
is a comprehensive, sympathetic review of his personal and musi- 
cal characteristics, and is a thoroughly entertaining volume from 
beginning to end." — Post^ Boston. 

" This volume is the fifth in the 'Biographies of Musicians,' 
by the same author, and is treated in that finished and polished 
style of criticism and review which characterises his preceding 
volumes. The book is prepared with a fine, clean cut engraving 
of Liszt." — Post, San Francisco. 

" In this Life of Liszt, Dr. Nohl had an attractive subject for 
a musical enthusiast. * * It is refreshed by incident and nar- 
rative, and is not overweighted by a too subtle analysis which a 
musical critic is often tempted to make, especially when dealing 
with such a phenomenon as Liszt." — Christian Register^ Boston. 

" This biography of the ' Hungarian Wonder Child ' is writ- 
ten with great simplicity and in perfect taste. Very interesting 
mention is made of the gypsies and how strongly these children 
of nature with their one art of music impressed Liszt as boy and 
man. He visited them in their out-door kingdom, slept with 
them under the open heavens, played with the children, made 
presents to the maidens, gossiped with their chiefs, and listened to 
their gypsy orchestras. At the age of twelve, he was, as a pianist, 
without a rival, and extraordinary as a composer. This biography 
is wholly successful in all that it undertakes to portray. A strong 
idea is formed in the mind of the reader of the might of his 
genius and the beauty of his character." — Herald, Boston. 

Sold by all booksellers, or mailed, post-paid, on 
receipt of price, by the publishers. 

A. C. McCLURG & COMPANY, 

(Successors to Jansen, McClurg, & Co.) 
Cor. Wabash Ave. and Madison St., Chicago. 



^^A worthy companion to the other biographies 
of Dr, NohlJ' — Musical Visitor, Cincinnati. 



LIFE OF WAGNER 

From the German of Dr. Louis Nohl, by George P. Upton. With 

portrait. Price $i.oo. 

"The translation is excellent. The portrait of Wagner in- 
cluded in this book is the finest we have seen. The face looks 
inspired," — Boston Globe. 

" Herr Nohl's biography is terse, concise, enthusiastic, and at 
the same time just. Anyone who wishes to get a clear idea of the 
'Music of the Future' and Wagner's life work will do well to read 
this volume." — Philadelphia Press. 

" It is a very concise biography, and gives in vigorous outlines 
those events of the life of the tone-poet which exercised the great- 
est influence upon his artistic career, his youth, his early studies, 
his first works, his sufferings, disappointments, his victories. It 
is a story of a strong life devoted to lofty aims." — Baltimore 
American. 

"So well considered and discriminating a record of his life as is 
here presented by Dr. Nohl, has something of value, therefore, 
for all classes of readers. . . . Careful analyses of Wagner's 
compositions are essential portions of the story, and are so skill- 
fully accomplished as to give additional value to the book." — 
Buffalo Express. 

'* It gives the story of Wagner's career with all necessary detail; 
traces the influences under which his works were produced, and 
analyzes with perspicuity his various masterpieces. . . . The 
volume is one that every lover of music may read with advantage, 
for it provides a very clear idea of the mission which the composer 
sought to fulfill." — Literary World, Boston. 

" Dr. Nohl's Biographies of Musicians consist of the Lives of 
Mozart, Beethoven, Haydn, Liszt, and Wagner — 

5 volumes, in box. Cloth. Price, - $5 00 

5 " " half Calf. •' - - 12 50 

Sold by all booksellers, or mailed, postpaid, on 
receipt of price by the publishers, 

A. C. McCLURG & COMPANY, 

(Successors to Jansen, McClurg, & Co.) 
Cor. Wabash Ave. and Madison St., Chicagro. 



*^ stirring events are graphically told in this series 
of romaiices.*' — Jlome Jonmal, New York. 



TIMES OF GUSTAF ADOLF. 

An Historical Romance of the Exciting 
Times of the Thirty Years' War. 

From the Original Swedish. 

BY Z. TOPELIUS. 

i2mo, extra cloth, black and gilt. Price $i.oo. 

"A vivid, romantic picturing of one of the most fascinating 
periods of human history " — The Tifues, Philadelphia. 

"Every scene, every character, every detail, is instinct with 
life. * * From beginning to end we are aroused, amused, 
absorbed." — The Tribune, Chicago. 

" The author has a genuine enthusiasm for his subject, and 
stirs up his readers' hearts in an exciting manner. The old times 
live again for us, and besides the interest of great events, there is 
the interest of humble souls immersed in their confusions. ' Scott, 
the delight of glorious boys,' will find a rival in these Surgeon 
Stories." — The Christian Register^ Boston. 

"It is difficult to give an idea of the vividness of the descrip- 
tions in these stories without making extracts which would be 
entirely too long. It is safe to say, however, that no one could 
possibly fail to be carried along by the torrent of fiery narration 
which marks these wonderful tales. * * Never was the mar- 
velous deviltry of the Jesuits so portrayed. Never were the horrors 
of war painted in more lurid colors." — The Press, Philadelphia. 

" The style is simple' and agreeable. * * There is a natu- 
ral truthfulness, which appears to be the characteristic of all 
these Northern authors. Nothing appears forced ; nothing 
indicates that the writer ever thought of style, yet the style is such 
as could not well be improved upon. He is evidently thoroughly 
imbued with the loftiest ideas, and the men and women whom he 
draws with the novelist's facility and art are as admirable as his 
manner of interweaving their lives with their country's battles 
and achievements." — The Graphic, New York. 

Sold by all booksellers, or mailed postpaid, on re- 
ceipt of price by the publishers. 

A. C. McCLURG & COMPANY, 

(Successors to Jansen, McClurg, & Co.) 

Cor. Wabash Ave. and Madison St., Chicago. 



^^ Most exquisitely written and translated." 

— Transcript, Boston. 

TIMES or BATTLE AND REST. 

An Historical Romance of the Times of Charles X. and Charles 

XI. From the Swedish of Prof. Z. Topelius. (Vol. II. 

of "The Surgeon's Stories.") Price, $i.oo. 



"One of the most absorbing and fascinating books we have 
ever read. Its literary work is as perfect as the subject matter." 
-—Home yournal, New York. 

"It excels in exciting incidents, fascinative narration and 
striking delineations of events and characters with which it has 
to deal," — Western Christian Advocate, Cincinnati, 

"These historical romances are some of the best literary 
work of our time, and the excellent translation of the volume be- 
fore us leaves nothing to be desired by the English reader." 
Manhattan, New York. 

"In the newly published second volume of Topelius' 'Sur- 
geon's Stories' are to be praised the same wealth and originality 
of material and superior literary qualities which characterized the 
first cycle. The admirer of lofty romance cannot fail to be grate- 
ful for an introduction through this careful and spirited English 
version to the ' Scandinavian Scott, ' as Professor Topelius has 
often been called. His works are glorious books for young peo- 
ple to rea(|." — Independent, New York. 

"The second cycle of the ' Surgeon's Stories ' covers the 
reigns of the Swedish kings Charles X. and Charles XI., and 
gives a stirring and graphic account of the conquests of the first 
in Poland and Denmark, with the famous march of his army 
across the ice of Little Belt in 1658, and the more peaceful but 
important events of the reign of the second, especially the 
Witchcraft persecutions and the great Reduction. Prof. Topelius 
deals with the rich material before him like a true master of his- 
torical romance. * * * He displays great versatility, com- 
bining vivacious narrative, historic fidelity, and ready humor." — 
Good Literature, New York. 

Sold by all booksellers, or sent by mail, post- 
paid, on receipt of price by the publishers, 

A. C. McCLURG & COMPANY, 

(Successors to Jansen, McClurg, & Co.) 

Cor. Wabash Ave. and Madison St., Chicago. 



** Surely it is delightfully told, "-Pioneer Press, St. Paul. 



TIMES OF CHARLES XII. 

An Historical Romance of the times of Charles XII. From the 

Swedish of Prof. Z. Topelius. (Vol. III. of " The 

Surgeon's Stories.") Price, $l.oo. 

In this volume the admirable and popular series of " The 

Surgeon's Stories " has perhaps the richest subject in all Swedish 

history— the world-famous monarch, Charles XII., to whom Dr. 

Johnson applied his celebrated lines : 

" He left the name at which the world grew pale, 
To point a moral and adorn a tale." 

*• The work is the most brilliant in the series thus far, and 
imparts a knowledge of the history of the period in the most 
delightful manner." — Gazeiie, Boston. 

" For strong and vivid scenes, dramatic power and effect, for 
novelty and enthusiastic interest, the stories are masterpieces. 
They ought to be read by every lover of fiction ; they will reveal 
to him new and artistic work."— Boston Globe. 

"All who enjoyed (and who that read it did not enjoy it?) 
* The Times of Gustaf Adolf,' will be eager to read this the third 
of the series ; a thrilling story of the thrilling times of * The Lion 
of the North,' written by the Walter Scott of the North." 

— Living Church, Chicago. 

" We would much prefer teaching a youth Swedish history 
from the novels of Topelius than from any book of strict historical 
narrative. In the one case wc are confident the events will be 
remembered and the times will live ; in the other the chances are 
that the first will be forgotten and the second never realized." — 
New York Sun. 

"We know of no author with whom to compare Topelius. 
He is vigorous and graphic, never verbose, never failing in interest. 
His books will attrrct the mature reader, and absorb the attention 
of children, and we commend them most heartily to all of these 
classes." — Courier, Cincinnati. 

Sold by all booksellers, or sent by mail, post-paid, 
on receipt of price, by tiie publisFiers, 

A. C. McCLURG & COMPANY, 

(Successors to Jansen, McClurg, & Co.) 
Cor. Wabash Ave. and Madison St., Chicago. 



** Swedish history Jias never been so attractively 
recorded.'* — Advance, Chicago. 



TIMES OF FREDERICK I. 

An Historical Romance of the period succeeding the reign of 

Charies XII. From the Swedish of Prof. Z. Topelius. 

(Vol. IV. of ♦♦ The Surgeon's Stories.") Price, $i.oo. 



" The portrayal is that of a master hand, and the stirring tale 
of passion, the thread of the king's ring romance, running through 
it make a captivating and intensely thrilling production of literary 
genius." — Times, Troy, iV, Y. 

" The * Times of Frederick I.' is wholly worthy the com- 
panionship of its predecessors. The characters are drawn with 
much of the picturesque force of Walter Scott, and the narrative 
is almost as animated and as genial as that of the elder Dumas 
in his historical novels." — Gazette, Boston. 

" Even more than former volumes does this book show a strik- 
ing resemblance to Scott in the power to make an historical epoch 
real and vivid to the reader's eyes. There is nothing finer in 
Scott than the scene in which the young count discovers the 
woman whom he loves in the wayside inn, surrounded by drunken 
noblemen, and rescues her by fighting three duels with the 
carousers." — Chronicle, San Francisco. 

" Its chief value is in its graphic description of the political 
feeling and action in the first years of peace after the war of 
twenty-one-years, and in its very perfect photographs of three 
leaders. Count Horn, Count Bertelskold, and Larsson. There are 
present, with undiminished force, the same knowledge of men 
and motives, the same skillful art and eloquent expression that 
have been exhibited so remarkably in the preceding works. The 
stories are classic in theme, treatment and style, and afford a 
satisfaction to literary taste that it seldom experiences in their 
class of fiction. Their qualities are entitled to conscientious 
study, and the time given to them will be repaid by the discovery 
of some rare beauties." — Globe, Boston. 

Sold by all booksellers, or sent by mail, post- 
paid, on receipt of price, by the publishers, 

A. C. McCLURG & COMPANY, 

(Successors to Jansen, McClurg, & Co.) 
Cor. Wabash Ave. and Madison St., Chicago. 



^' It deserves a place ivith the very best fiction,'^ 

— Standard, Chicago. 

TIMES OF LINIs^^US. 

An Historical Romance of the Times of the great Naturalist 

Linnaeus. From the Swedish of Prof. Z. TopeHus. (Vol. 

V. of " The Surgeon's Stories.") Price, $i.oo. 



" Like its predecessors, the work bears a romantic charm and 
beauty of style that is rarely exceeded even in unmixed fiction." — 
Interior y Chicago. 

" The freshness, purity, and learning which have given these 
stories their exceptional reputation are all present in the latest. 
For the lover of flowers and plants this is as enjoyable as a ro- 
mance of botany, without any unnecessary intrusion of unknown, 
terms." — Herald, Chicago. 

" The beauty, delicacy and tenderness of description in these 
stories can only be compared to the work of Sir Walter Scott. 
The subtle emotions of the human mind are sketched with a 
master hand. The heroic element combines the courage of a 
soldier, with the gentleness of a lover. The reader is tempted 
to exclaim in rapture, ' Why have we never known this people 
before ? ' " — Free Press, Detroit. 

" In the other four stories, Topelius has described part of the 
political as well as the social history of Sweden, and we have 
learned some things no other history has taught us, about the 
splendid campaigns of Gustaf Adolf and Charles the XII., but 
the author in the Times of Linnaeus, introduces us to far nobler 
battle fields, and to a conqueror whose name is, and forever will 
be, held in love and admiration by the students of natural science. 
As we follow with uninterrupted interest the course of this story, 
we are more than ever impressed with the clear, picturesque and 
dramatic style of its author. He records the history and charac- 
ter of the great naturalist, and at the same time portrays the 
romance of human passion with a skill which few modern novel- 
ists possess. We have on other occasions advised our readers to 
buy these stories. We more decidedly than ever before repeat 
this counsel." — Courier, Cincinnati. 

Sold by all booksellers, or sent by mail, post- 
paid, on receipt of price by the publishers, 

A. C. McCLURG & COMPANY, 

(Successors to Jansen, McClurg, & Co.) 

Cor. Wabash Ave. and Madison St., Chicago. 



*^ The completion of ' The Surgeon's Stories' forms 
an event in modern literature," — Express, Buffalo. 



TIMES OF ALCHEMY. 

An Historical Romance of the Dawn of the Gustavian Period of 
Swedish History. From the Swedish of Prof. Z. 
Topelius. (Vol. VI., and last of " The Sur- 
geon's Stories.") Price, $i.oo. 



•* As abundant in charm as the delightful historical romances 
of the elder Dumas." — Gazette, Boston. 

" This volume completes a charming series of stories, possess- 
ing not merely fine fancy, but having within them such faithful 
pictures of northern European life as can be found in no other 
books." — Christian Advocate, Chicago, 

" Perhaps in knowledge of the quiet expression of the heart, 
under influence of love, and in the beauty of its lessons, this is 
superior to all. * * They may be classed among the best books 
of contemporary fiction, and should be carefully read." — Globe, 
Boston. 

"The first conclusion — the only one (for who can criticise so 
charming a series as this has been ?) — is that there is not quite 
enough 'Alchemy,' for what there is makes us want more — in 
the unpretentious little book. But it is a clever wind up, never- 
theless, of an exceedingly clean and clever series, for the intro- 
duction of which the publishers deserve large credit." — Pioneer- 
Press, St. Paul. 

In the concluding volume of these great romances we are 
shown a striking picture of the superstition that prevailed amongst 
all classes of Swedish society before its clouds had yet been pene- 
trated and dissolved by the sunlight of exact science that followed 
the career of Linnseus. This superstition is exemplified in the 
person of a mysterious alchemist and his experiments in search of 
the philosopher's stone and the elixir of life. Many of the char- 
acters of the preceding volume appear in this, and the threads of 
all the stories are here united and brought to a fitting close. 

Sold by all booksellers, or sent by mail, post- 
paid, on receipt of price by the publishers, 

A. C. McCLURG & COMPANY, 

(Successors to Jansen, McClurg, & Co.) 

Cor. Wabash Ave. and Madison St., Chicago. 



" The work shows thorough study and excellent 
Judgment," — Boston Transcript. 



FAMILIAR TALKS ON 

ENGLISH LITERATURE. 

By Abby Sage Richardson. 



One Handsome 8vo Volume, Price, $1.50. 



"We commend this book most heartily to the readers for 
whose benefit it was prepared as the very best of its kind." — 
Traveler, Boston. 

" The work shows thorough study and excellent judgment, 
and we can warmly recommend it to schools and private classes 
for reading, as an admirable text-book." — Transcript, Boston. 

*' The work is without question one of the best of its kind 
with which we are acquainted ; if for no other reason, because it 
has in greater measure than usual the capacity to interest the 
young readers, for whom it is intended." — Evening Post, N. Y. 

' ' What the author proposed to do was to convey to her 
readers a clear idea of the variety, extent and richness of English 
Literature. * * * ghe has done just what she intended to do, 
and done it well." — Richard Henry Stoddard, in Evening Mail, 
New York. 

"It is refreshing to find a book designed for young readers, 
which seeks to give only what will accomplish the real aim of ihe 
study, namely, to excite an interest in English literature, cultivate 
a taste for what is best in it, and thus lay a foundation on which 
they can build after reading. Dates are not neglected, but are 
given in the most effective way, the year of the birth and death of 
each writer, standing opposite his name in the margin ; so that 
the epoch of each writer is precisely marked, but the attention is 
not distracted in reading." — The Nation, New York. 

Sold by all booksellers, or mailed, post-paid, on 
receipt of price, by the publishers, 

A. C. McCLURG & COMPANY, 

(Successors to Jansen, McClurg, & Co.) 
Cor. Wabash Ave. and Madison St., Chicago. 



'* It cannot fail to gain young people's attention,*^ 

— Publisher's Weekly^ New York. 



SPEECH AI^D MANNERS 

FOR HOME AND SCHOOL. 

By Miss E. S. Kirkland. Price, $i.oo. 



Miss Kirkland's new volume will be found quite as useful and 

acceptable as her former works. Although intended for 

children, it will interest older folks as well. 

*' An admirable book for mothers to read aloud to their chil- 
dren." — New York Nation. 

" No lover of English undefiled who will take the trouble to 
examine this unpretentious little volume can fail instantly to 
recognize its transcendent merits." — Chicago TTibune, 

" Young people need not be required to read this volume; 
give it to them, and they will read it for their own enjoyment and 
be rich gainers by repeated perusals." 

— Pittsburgh Presbyterian Banner. 

" It cannot be extravagant to declare that this excellent little 
book, though intended mainly for children and youth, is not at all 
below the level of thousands upon thousands of older folk." 

— Buffalo Express. 

'* The author's theory of manners and of speech is good. Her 
modest manual might be read, re-read and read again with great 
advantage in most American families. The new interest taken 
in this subject calls attention to a branch of sesthetics which amounts 
to something and commands respect," — New York Independent. 



Miss Kirkland's other popular books cdmprise : 

A SHORT HISTORY OF FRANCE, Price, $ 1 .25 
DORA'S HOUSEKEEPING, - ," 1 .OO 

SIX LITTLE COOKS, - - - " i .oo 



Sold by all booksellers, or mailed, post-paid, on 
receipt of price, by the publishers, 

A. C. McCLURG & COMPANY, 

(Successors to Jansen, McClurg, & Co.) 

Cor. Wabash Ave. and Madison St., Chicagro. 



^* Scholarly f earnest, animated and inspired with 
humanity, '^ — Cincinnati Commercial Gazette. 



SEEMONS, 

By David Swing. 
Comprising twenty of the author's latest and best efforts. 



l2mo, 307 pages. Price, $1.50. 



"Directness and simplicity of style and the love of all that is 
lovable and beautiful, characterize these sermons, and make them 
more than acceptable to the Christian reader." — School yournal. 
New York. 

"Selected with the greatest care, these sermons contain the 
charming characteristics of their gifted author. Stretching over 
a wide range of topics, they treat of the several vital questions of 
human life with the earnestness of thought and genuine humanity 
which we always find in Professor Swing's works." — Chronicle, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 

"A part at least of the secret of Professor Swing's popularity 
is disclosed in this singularly readable volume of sermons. He 
has an instinctive perception of the current of contemporary 
thought ; he chooses the topics which are upon most men's 
minds, or which relate to their immediate intellectual wants, and 
he treats them with perfect freedom, frankness and sincerity. He 
is positive and individual. His thought is clear ; his language is 
straightforward and unaffected ; and his easy style is never de- 
graded to empty rhetorical devices." — Tribune, New York. 



Professor Swing's other works comprise : 

MOTIVES OF LIFE, - - Price, $ 1 .OO 

CLUB ESSAYS, _ _ - " 1 .oO 

TRUTHS FOR TO-DAY, 1 st Series, *' 1 .50 

TRUTHS FOR TO-DAY, 2nd Series, " 1 .50 



For sale by all booksellers, or mailed, post-paid, 
on receipt of price by the publishers, 

A. C. McCLURG & COMPANY, 

(Successors to Jansen, McClurg, & Co.) 
Cor. Wabash Ave. and Madison St., Chicagro. 



^ 7!l0.7F2r' 



MUSIC 



3 5002 00117 3454 

Fay, Amy 

Music study In Germany. 



HL 417 .FSai 168& 



Fay, Amy, 1844-1928. 



Music st.udy in Germany 



JtUSHCf LIBRARY. 







:',■;: .!.'^■^'•^.■ 



•V;;. :';;•;;:(> 



y^;;'-;; sm^ 



•:^;h:)! 



'.i:.'"v/\i 



^•M^M. 



•;■,.■'.':• ■'■y"^>';^"' ■.'■';! 



« I.V 



:.vX/:l' 



•V;v 



^•'^i';:':.!^;: 



■X.Ji 



;^^ 



m 



\','-.-^> 



.1/ /I ,':•.• •.•,;v 



:>/,^ 






»>■•.' I'.i, 



•I.- .•„•/■. 



■'.*»i 



