Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on Hbrary shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http : //books . google . com/| 



E kpF//cro^ 




MUSIC AND FRIENDS. 



MUSIC AND FRIENDS; 



OB) 



PLEASANT RECOLLECTIONS 



OP 



^ ^iUttunU* 



BY WILLIAM GARDINER, 



AUTHOR OF 

" SACmKI> MXLODIBS," " OBATOKlO OP JUOAH," " inJSIC OF MATUBX/' 

" MUSIC AND FKIXHIM " ; 
EDITOR OF THK ** LIVES Of HATDN AND MOZART," ETC. ; 
MEMBER OF THE ACADEMY OF ST. CECILIA, ROME ; AMD OF THE CLASS OF FINK ARTS 

DB L'INSTITUTE HISTORIQUB DB FRANCB. 



VOL. III. 



LONDON: 

LONGMAN, BROWN, GREEN, AND LONGMANS. 
CROSSLEY AND CLARKE, LEICESTER. 



MDCCCLIII. 






LEICESTER : 

PRINTED BT WARD AND SON, 6, WBLUNOTON-ST. 




PREFACE. 



In the two previous volumes of this work, I have 
given some account of my life and early recollections. 
I now put down some other particulars — some from 
my early boyhood — ^possessing, I am aware, no value 
in themselves, and of no pubUc interest, beyond that 
which time confers upon them. 

The Songs are specimens of old fashioned poetry, 
— as Isaac Walton says, " Choicely good" — ^to which 
I have composed appropriate airs. My anecdotes 
may now see the light without offence, the incidents 
to which they refer having occurred so far back as 
nearly to be forgotton. 

My love of Music has not been chilled with 
advancing years ; as may be seen in the thoughts I 
have let drop upon that science in this, my final 
volume. 

Leicester, 1853. 



I 



For pages 382 and 383, read 370 and 371. 



I 



Vll 



[To the Sacred Melodies, which I published forty years ago, I had 
four hundred and four subscribers, only twenty four of whom 
are now alive. The following, whom (with the exception of 
four or five) I have the honour to call my personal Mends, 
I place upon record with the utmost pride and pleasure as 
subscribers to this, my last work.] 



SUBSCRIBERS. 

Arnold, Thomas, Esq., M.D.... Stamford 

Angrave, Richard, Esq Leicester 

Ayre, Miss Gaddesby 

Beaumont, Sir Greorge, Bart. . . . Coleorton 

Bernebs, Lady Keythorpe 

Bankart, Samuel, Esq Leicester 

Bankart, Mrs Leicester 

Bankart, Alfred, Esq Bradford 

Bankart, Tuffley, Esq Gaddesby 

Bankart, Miss Leicester 

Barclay, J. Esq., M.D Leicester 

Barker, James, Esq Camberwell 

Barnard, Mrs. J. N Norwich 

Bellairs, George, Esq Narborough 

Belgrave, Eev. T Rectory, North Kilworth 

Berry, Rev. C Lynces, Leicester 

Berridge, Samuel, Esq Leicester 

Berrington, Miss Narborough 



VIU 



Berkeley, Hon. Fitzhardinge M.P. London 

Bexfield, Doctor London 

Biggs, William, Esq., M.P Leicester 

Biggs, Mrs Highfield House 

Bishop, Sir Henry London 

Bowman, Mrs Clifford-street, London 

Bowden, William, Esq Kocklaveston Manor, Notts. 

Bowmar, X])liarles, Esq Leicester 

Braham, J., Esq London 

Brotherton, J., Esq., M.P Manchester 

Brewin, Eobert, Esq Birstall House 

Broadwood, Esq., and Sons London (six copies) 

Brettle, Alfred, Esq Combe Hay, Bath 

Bridges, Mrs Narborough 

Buszard, M., Esq Lutterworth 

Cheney, E. Esq., High Sheriff Gaddesby 
Cobden, Kichard, Esq., M.P. ... London 

Cobden, Mrs Westbourne Terrace 

Cartwright, John, Esq Loughborough 

Combe, Thomas, Esq Oxford 

Coleman, Miss !^ Evington Hall 

Coltman, Samuel, Esq Dufiield 

Corah, Miss Scraptoft HaU 

Cheslyn, E. Captain Leicester 

Clarke, Samuel, Esq Leicester 

Crossley, John S., Esq Barrow-upon-Soar 

Dawson, Edward, Esq Whatton House 

Elvey, Doctor Windsor 

Ella, John, Esq London 

Engel, Mrs Kensington 

Eowke, Sir Erederick G., Bart. Lowesby 



• 



IX 



Fenwicke, Miss Leicester 

Flower, John, Esq Leicester 

Freer, Miss Emily ThurmastoQ 

Freer, William E., Esq Leicester 

Gbeene, Hemry, Esq Eolleston Hall 

Gregory, William, Esq Leicester 

Griffith, A., Esq Leicester 

Griffith, Mrs Leicester 

HofTB, The Earl Gopsal Hall 

Howe, The Countess Gopsal Hall 

Halfoed, Sir H., Bart., M.P.... Wistow Hall 

Harding, C, Esq Bole Hall 

Harding, William, Esq Copeley, near Birmingham 

Hartopp, E. B., Esq Dalby Hall 

Harris, Eichard, Esq Leicester 

Harris, Miss Dove Manor House, Blaby 

Harris, Miss Leicester (Braunstone gate) 

Hanison, Rev. A. R Leicester 

Hayes, John, Esq Leicester 

Heygate, Lady Roecliflfe 

Herrick, W., Esq Beaumanor Park 

Heyman, L. , Esq Bridgeford House, Notts. 

Heyrick, W., Esq Thurmaston Lodge 

Hickson, Thomas, Esq Melton 

Hodgson, I., Esq Kirby Frith 

Hogarth, George, Esq London 

Hollings, J. F., Esq Stoneygate 

Hollings, Mrs Stoneygate 

Hoskins, Mrs Rectory, Blaby 

Hollins, Mrs Liverpool 

Irwin, W. C, M.D Leicester 

Johnson, Colonel Clanchey Burleigh Field, Loughborough 



It 



X 



Keck, G. A. L., Esq Stoughton Grange 

Kenrick, Mrs. T Maple Bank, Birmingkam 

Lee, Thomas Yate, Esq Kinver, Stourbridge 

Linwood, Miss M Birmingliam 

Longman, W., Esq London 

Lonsdale, C, Esq London 

Lohr, G. A., Esq Leicester 

Loseby, Mrs Knighton Hall 

Lockinge, Mrs. M Leicester 

Manners, the Rt. Hon. Lord J* London 

Macaulay, Colin C, Esq Knighton 

Macaulay, Mrs. C Knighton 

Macaulay, William, Esq Leicester 

Marshall, Mrs. W. B Southfields 

Mellor, John, Esq., Q.C London 

Moore, John, Esq Leicester 

Morgan, Be v. N., Rectory Rearsby 

Newby, Rev. J. P Rectory, Enderby 

Nichols, John Gough, Esq London 

Noble, J. W., Esq., M.D Danett's Hall 

Novello, Alfred, Esq London 

Oldham, Mrs Leicester Frith 

Oldham, William, Esq Leicester Frith 

Oldknow, Mrs Draycott, Derbyshire 

Oury, Madame Brighton 

Packe, C. W., Esq., M.P Prestwould 

Packe, Captain Stanhope Place, London 

Packe, James, Esq Milden HaU, Suffolk 

Paget, Mrs Humberstone 

Paget, Mrs. Tertius Humberstone 

Paget, E. Arthur, Esq Thorpe Satchville 

Paget, William, Esq. (two copies) The Cliff, Sutton 



XI 



Paget, Thos., Esq Leicester 

Paget, Mrs. T Leicester 

Paget, Alfred, Esq Leicester 

Paget, Mrs. A Leicester 

Palmer, William, Esq Leicester 

Palmer, Mrs. W Leicester 

Pares, Thomas, Esq Hopwell HaU 

Parsons, W., Esq Leicester 

Parsons, Mrs. W Leicester 

Payne, Henry, Esq The Newarke, Leicester 

Phillipps, Rev. C. M Queniborough 

Potter, Sir John Manchester 

Potter, Mrs London 

Potter, Bichard, Esq Gloucester 

Potter, T. R., Esq Wymeswould 

Pownall, Rev. Beaty Vicarage, Milton Jiamest, near 

Bedford 
Power, Rev. J Clare Hall, Cambridge 

Rutland, His Grace the Duke. . . (two copies) 

Rawstome. the Misses Ormskirk 

Reeve, W. N., Esq Leicester 

Roughton, Miss Leicester 

Ryland, Mrs Basford Hill, Warwick 

Sadlier, James, Esq., M.P. ... Clonmel 

Sadlier, John, Esq., M.P Dublin 

Scott, Mrs Carrow House, Norwich 

Scott, Miss Elizabeth Ives Wilton Cottage, Norwich 

Scott, B. F., Esq Leeds 

Seddon, William, Esq North Witham, Colsterworth 

Sedgwick, Professor Cambridge 

Shaw, George, Esq., M.D Leicester 

Simpson, J., Esq Rearsby 

Slight, Lewis, Esq Brighton 

Smith. Rev. Loraine Passenham 



Xll 

Smart, Sir Gteorge London 

Stallard, J. H., Esq The Newarke 

Stallard, Mrs. J. H. The Newarke 

Stokes, Thomas, Esq New Parks 

Stokes, Miss New Parks 

Stone, Mrs Rutland-street, Leicester 

Stone, S., Esq Leicester 

Straton, Eev. G. W , Rectory, Aylestone 

Strutt, the Right Hon. Edw. ... Kingston, Notts. 

Taylok, Edward, Professor Gresham College 

Taylor, David, Esq Stoke Newington 

Taylor, Mrs Waddon Lodge, Croydon 

Taylor, Mrs. John The Newarke 

Thomas, Mrs Rolleston Hall 

Toller, Mrs Stoneygate 

Tompkins, Charles, Esq CamberweJl 

Turle, Robert, Esq, Armagh 

. Trapp, Mrs Thurleigh Vicarage, near Bedford 

Utting, John, Esq Long Stratton, Norwich 

Westmoreland, His Excellency 

the Earl Vienna 

Wilton, the Rt. Hon. the Earl . . . Melton Mowbray 

Walker, Miss Ellen The Grange 

Webster, Rev. Montague Netherseal, Ashby-de4a-Zouch 

Webster, Baron, Esq Penns, Sutton Coldfield 

Wayman, Mrs Thurton Vicarage, Newmarket 

Wheatley, F., Esq., M.D London 

Wheatley, Miss Clonacody 

Wheatley, John, Esq Nottingham 

Wheeler, Thomas, Esq Leicester 

Williamson, Mrs , Queniborough 

Williamson, William, Esq Leicester 

Winstanley, C, Esq Braunstone Hall 



4 



CONTENTS. 



Chapt. 

1. — Infancy — Musical ear — Dame Schools — Burgess 

2. — Militia — Perry — Capt. Spencer 

3. — Old Leicester — Gates — Streets 

4. — ^Elections — Pochin — Evans — ^Duke of Wellingt 

5 . — ^Education — Kershaw 

6. — Corbet 

7. — Journey to Duffield 

8. — Great Meeting Cho^r 

9 . — Parents — Fashions 
10. — ^American War 
1 1 .—Plays— Farren—Siddons— O'Neal 
12.— Rothley 

13. — Gibraltar — ^Eodney — Capt. Gamble 
14. — Abbey — ^Wolsey — ^Black 
1 5 . — Skaiters — Pantomime 
16. — Stoke 

17. — Slave Trade ... 
18. — ^Doctors Croft, Green, and Boyce 
J 9. — Soldiers 
20. — ^Laceby 
21, — ^Painted Ladies 
22. — ^The Leasowes ... 
23. — ^Journey to Norfolk 
24. — ^The Chase — ^Bradgate 
25. — ^Bartleman — Hanison — Greatorex . 
26. — ^Woodbridge ... 
27. — ^Manufacturers 
28. — John Allen and Phoebe Gray 
29.— Evening Walk 
30. — Lady Norris ... 



on 



Page. 
1 

7 

10 

12 

14 

22 

24 

27 

30 

33 

41 

44 

48 

52 

55 

61 

67 

71 

75 

81 

85 

89 

92 

102 

106 

109 

111 

116 

123 

125 



XIV 



CONTENTS. 



31. — Lionel and Louisa ... ... ... 128 

32. — Ghosts — Transmigration ... ... 131 

33.— Carlton ... ... ..'. ... 135 

34.— Old Dalby HaU ... ... ... 142 

8 5 . — Singing — ^Vocal Performers ... ... 148 

36.— James Bott ... ... ... ... 152 

37. — ^Beaumaris — ^Bangor ... ... ... 154 

38.— Burton ... ... ... ... 162 

39. — ^Loadstone of Love ... ... ... 165 

40. — B«v. Mr. Johnson ... ... ... 167 

41. — Classical Music ... ... ... 168 

42. — Beethoven ... ... ... ... 171 

43. — Exercise ... ... ... ... 173 

44. — ^Diet ... ... ... ... 181 

45, — Cards ... ... ... ... 183 

46. — John Brown ... ... ... ... 184 

47. — Musical Scale . ... ... ... 185 

48.— Old Age ... ... ... .. 196 

49.— Auld Robin Gray ... ... ... 202 

50. — T. Combe, Esq., of Leicester .. ... 206 

51.— FRENCH REVOLUTION 213 

52.— King's Flight ... ... ... 224 

53.— Day after the Flight ... ... ... 228 

54. — Second Constitution ... ... ... 232 

55.— Republic— King's Death ... ... 242 

56. — Charlotte Corday — ^Death of the Queen ... 253 

57. — ^Death of the Queen's Sister — Thomas Paine 258 

58. — Execution of Danton ... ... ... 260 

59. — Robespierre — Tallien — Execution of Robes- 
pierre ... ... ... ... 267 

60.— Dryden's Ode— St. Qecilia's Day .. .. 271 

61.— Silken Shoes— Folly of the French ... 280 

62.— Clari , ... ... ... ... 284 

63. — National Songs — Shakspere — Ame — Moore ... 290 

64. — ^The Literary and Philosophical Society — 

Professor Ansted ... ... .. 304 



CONTENTS. 




65. — Vaccination ... 


... . . 


... 314 


66. — Grold 


•. • . 


... 319 


67. — ^Beethoven's Statue 


... • 


... 329 


68.— Fairy Dale ... 


... . 


... 340 


69. — Grenius 


. 


... 343 


70.-- Infant Schools 


... . 


.. 349 


71. — Sunday Morning 


... • < 


... 350 


72. — ^Breams 


... .< 


... 352 


73. — Handel's Messiah 


• • • • 


.. 355 


74. — ^Astronomy 


... . 


... 362 


75. — ^Madrigab 


... • 


... 373 


76. — Oratorio of Judah 


... . 


... 377 



XV 



INDEX TO THE MUSIC. 



^^one as I went up and down 

A woman's face is fuU of wiles 

A woman's nay is no denial 

A lonely bachelor, am I 

As I sat at my spinning wheel 

Evei J thing doth pass away 

Get you gone, don't pursue me 

Hornpipe — Violoncello 

Hoi .ipipe — Miss Ga j «on 

How we dally out our days 

If to Love, she could not incline 

Infant Songs 

Is it for a grace 

Nightingale 

0, Mother, I am transported 

O, Shepherd, what is Love 

O, what a pain is Love 

O, would oblivions chilling hand . . . 

Prithee, Phoebe, not so fast 

X raver *•• .«* ••• ••• ••• ••• 

Queen Mab 

Scarce sixteen summers 

The Babes in the Wood 

The Bugle Horn — ^the Margrave sounds 
The morning of our rest is come ... 
The Spilnghad passed over 

To these lone shades ' 

What bird that sings 

What a dull fool was I 

When late I attempted 

With humble vows 



Page 

... 58 


... 370 


... 346 


... 218 


... 157 


... 298 


... 322 


... 20 


... 360 


... 357 


... 138 


... 382 


... 98 


... 17 


... 78 


... 250 


... 262 


... 286 


... 177 


... 334 


... 310 


... 274 


.. 207 


... 180 


... 197 


,. 219 


... 118 


... 17 


... 158 


... 38 


... 238 



r 



MUSIC AND FRIENDS; 



OR. 



PLEASANT RECOLLECTIONS, &c, 



CHAPTER L 

INFANCY — EAK FOB MUSIC — PAME SCHOOL — VAUGHAN — JANE 
GLOVEE — ME. BUKGESS — TELESCOPE — CHIME CLOCK — 
SHAKSPEBIAN JUBILEE. 

I have stated in the first volume, that I was bom 
on the ides of March (the 15th), 1770, the memorable 
day on which Brutus stabbed Caesar. I mention this, 
because aU men are fond of associating themselves with 
great names, even those whose origin is no higher than 
my own. 

There are images impressed upon my mind, which 
I conceive to have existed there firom the very com^ 
mencement of my being, which ever and anon start 
up into remembrance more visibly, as it were, than any 
ideas acquired by the mere observation of the senses. 
These pictures in the chambers of fancy were not im- 
printed by external objects — ^they existed before I had 
actually learnt to see. Glimpses of these sensations I 

B 



2 DAME SCHOOL. Chap. 1. 

still retain, which I consider as undivided threads con- 
nected with a former existence — ^not a creation, but 
a developement of impressions — not to be attributed 
to anything in this outer world. On a close obser- 
vation of children we may be led to suspect that some 
of their staxtUng inquiries and rapid thoughts arise 
from no other source than these in-bom visions. 

. Before I was a twelvemonth old, my ear caught a 
tune from my father's flute ; it was so strongly im- 
pressed upon my mind, that on meeting with it sixty 
years afterwards, I found every note was perfectly 
retained in my recollection. Another air which he 
played on the violoncello, I have inserted as a curi- 
osity, vide page 20. 

The early use of our faculties sharpens the percep- 
tions of the senses, and this quickness is often 
erroneously ascribed to genius. 



Dame School. 

1772. — In my second year I was sent to a 
dame school, kept by Mrs. Loseby, who Uved in the 
house now converted into Payne's fish shop, in 
High-street, Leicester. There was only one other 
male youngster in the school besides myself. Master 
Welby Vaughan (third son of Doctor Vaughan, an 
eminent physician). This cherub knight, a year older 
than myself, was regarded by me as a Don Quixote, 



JANE GLOVER. 3 

to whom I played the part of Sancho Panza. We 
were made to sit on a small form by ourselves, distinct 
from the little girls, who filled the school. When 
breeched for the first time, I well recollect the dis- 
play I made with my jacket interlaced with silver 
sugar-loaf buttons. The ghtter produced in me the 
first sensations of pride, and evidently the first feeling 
of envy in my schoolfellow. 

Mrs. Loseby was a little sharp old woman, so 
crooked and lame that she could not move from her 
chair. She was the horror of my waking and sleeping 
thoughts. How often have I dreamed that she hobbled 
after me, frightful figure as she was, and when upon 
the point of being caught, I have started from my 
sleep, miraculously escaping from her grasp. My 
young Doctor led me into many a scrape, for which we 
were called up to the judgment seat, to be punished by 
a smart slap upon the hand, with a small mahogany 
battledore which she kept by her side — ^which gave 
the fingers a tinghng sensation for some time. When 
the old lady was ill we were turned over to the maiden 
government of her niece, Jane Glover, a good-tempered, 
and pleasing young person, who I then supposed was 
the heroine of the following verse, which I had often 
heard sung, to very pretty music : — 

Gro to Jane Glover, 
And tell her I love her, 
And by the light of the moon 
I win come to her. 

b2 



4 TOWN WALL. Chap. 1. 

In the summer time we were treated with a tea- 
drinking at the Bath gardens. Upon this gala-day we 
were all dressed in our best ; our heads were curled 
and powdered, and what was very showy, the girls 
were all clad in white, with a pink sash, and red mo- 
rocco shoes. We walked hand-in-hand, without hats 
or caps, to the great admiration of the people who 
lined the streets to look at us. 



Mr. Burgess. 

1773. — Our nearest neighbour was Mr. Burgess, 
an eminent manufacturer. His house was situated at 
the end of an alley leading from the upper part of the 
Market-place into the Horse-fair, a narrow passage 
where only two could walk abreast. When the As- 
sembly Rooms were built, the present Hotel-street was 
made, as an outlet for carriages, over the foundations of 
the ancient town waU. From Mr. Burgess's house there 
was an open view over the fields as far as the Marquis 
of Granby — not an object intervened, except the Re- 
corder's house, which stood in a large garden. The 
whole district has since been built upon, and this 
house now finds itself standing in Belvoir-street, at the 
comer of Bowling-green-street. At Mr. Burgess's I 
was a constant visitor, and amons many treats bestowed 
np.. me. o„.e gratiiied me mol t Jbefag penmtted 
to look through a telescope. How surprised was I to 



CHIME CLOCK. 5 

see persons at the distance of a mile drawn close to 
me, so that I conld discern the shining metal buttons 
on their clothes ! This gave birth to my love of tele- 
scopes, and, ultimately, to that of astronomy . Another 
object v^rhich claimed my attention, and to which I 
paid frequent visits, was a chime-clock, which played a 
tune ef ery three hours. Its simple and plaintive me- 
lody always interested me, and the strong impression 
it made upon my mind now enables me to write it 
down from memory :— 




r^^^ ri j_^ I J ■" ^ 



i 



Mr. Burgess was a lover of music, and my father's 
attainments in that way always made him a welcome 
visitor. Then, there was no music without plenty of li- 
bations of ale— wine was sciarcely ever seen, even in the 
best fiamilies. The crowning hquor of the night was the 
all joy-inspiring punch. — Shakspere's Jubilee had lately 
been held at Stratford-upon-Avon, and my friends who 
attended this/efe brought home with them carved 
busts, tobacco-stoppers, &c., made of the mulberry 
tree which Shakspere planted. I well recollect the 



6 SHAKSPEBIAN JUBILEE. Chap. 1. 

foUowmg song upon that occasion, which became very 
popular : — 

Behold I tliis fair goblet was carved from the tree. 
Which, my sweet Shakspere, was planted by thee. 

These Avon penates were thrown into the flowing 
bowl, and as the Ubations quickened, the poetic fire of 
my friends quickened also, much to the alarm of my 
boyish feelings. The sentiments of the following song 
were in unison with the taste of the day. 

SONG. 

How can the mind be e'er at ease, 
Unless you first the body please? 
Life is, what e'er vain man may doubt, 
B\it taking in — and putting put. 

Since life's but a span. 

Live as much as you can ; 
Let none of it pass without pleasure ; 

But push on your strength. 

Of what life wants in length. 
In the breadth you must make up the measure. 



CHAPTER II. 

MILITIA — ^BAUMGARTEN AND THE BAND— IB£LAND--^HE TOtJTH 
PEBBY — MILITABY DBESS — DEATH OP CAPTAIN SPENCEB. 

1778. — ^About this time the Militia was drawn for, 
an event which produced an extraordinary sensation in 
the pubKc mind. A thousand red coats, with arms in 
their hands, started up in the Market-place, as if by 
magic, and fired a volley which alarmed and shook the 
whole town. The surprise was imexampled — a soldier 
not having been seen smce the civil wars. 

Previous to the general muster, half-a-dozen lads 
had been sent up to London, to be taught various in- 
struments, in order to form a military band. Their 
German master, Baumgarten, put into their hands a 
new instrument, called the clarionet, which, with its 
fiery tone, was better adapted to lead armies on to 
battle than the meek and feeble oboe. This instru- 
ment, with its companion, the bassoon, was to be found 
in every country choir. The fierceness of war has, 
however, driven the oboe out of society, and it is 
now nearly forgotten. After the regiment had been 
drilled for a month, the stocking-maker and plough- 
man returned to their homes, with a self-importance 
never felt before, looking down upon their fellows al- 
most with contempt, and returning reluctantly to their 
work. In 1778 the American war was at its height, 



A 



8 ENSIGN ?ERRY. Chap. 2. 

and the miUtia was called out on actual duty. The 
panic produced by this measure is not to be described. 
Every wife and mother's son dreamt of seeing husband 
and father slain in battle ; nor was the public mind 
at all appeased till it was declared, that, constitution- 
ally, the mihtia could not be sent out of the kingdom. 
However, on June 10th, the phalanx marched out, 
with drawn swords, drums rolling, and colours flying, 
by the Ashby-road, for Liverpool, and thence to Ire- 
land. The town was deserted, especially by the 
females, who had come from every part of the county 
to accompany their sweethearts part of the way, which 
they did many miles before they could bid the last 
farewell. The charm of the band, playing lively quick 
steps, drew me as far as Grooby, ere I took leave of 
my friend. Perry. This young gentleman Uved within 
a door of us, and, as boys, we were companions. 
Though he was not more than twelve years of age, he 
was admitted an ensign in his father's company. He 
wore a sword and full uniform. In every respect he 
was my superior, yet he continued his acquaintance 
with me, of which I was not a little proud, he being 
the admiration of aU boys of his own age. The miU- 
tary dress was then absurdly uncouth. The flaps of 
the coat reached nearly to the ancles, and the waistcoat 
flaps to the middle of the thigh. White woollen 
breeches, stockings, shoes and buckles, completed the 
lower attire. The hair, loaded with flour and po* 
matum, terminated in a long pigtaQ, as thick as your 



CAPTAIN SPENCER. 9 

wrist, and rolled upon the shoulders. This was consi- 
dered a defence against a sword cut, in battle. The head 
was surmounted with a large cocked hat ; and the chin 
was so propped up, by a stiflF leathern collar, that the 
man of war could scarcely see the ground on which he 
marched. The firelock was as much as any person 
Gould carry. Thus loaded and shackled, he was too 
unwieldy to fight, and too heavy to ran away. 

On the conclusion of the American war, in 1788 
(just five years afterwards), the regiment returned to 
their. families and Mends, having performed no one 
feat of arms, or achieved one earthly good. On their 
road home. Captain Spencer died at Worksop, and 
was brought to be buried in the Great Meeting yard, 
Leicester. The same band which inspired me with 
their lively airs, now played, in solemn style, the Dead 
March in Said, as the hero was carried to the grave, 
when the troops fired a volley over him. His tomb- 
stone stands near to the vestry, fi-om which I have 
copied the following epitaph : — 



" Is Spencer, then, to tyrant Death a prey ! 
Who faced him oft in all his dread array ? 
Boast, Death, thy sting ; and Grave, thy victory boast ! 
Must we lament him, then, as ever lost ? 
No ! faith replies, he'U wake to life agam ; 
Wrhere, Death, thy sting ; where, Grave, thy victory, then ? 



» 



1 Chap. 3. 



CHAPTER III. 

OLD LSICESTEB — ^WALLS, GATES, INNS — LORD'S HOUSE — TBEE8 

IN THE STEEETS. 

1774. — ^When the plague raged here in 1669, the 
high road from the north, which passed by the Abbey, 
was turned through Belgrave, and so on to Leicester, 
outside the walls, to avoid the pestilence— hence arose 
the suburbs of the Belgrave-gate, Church-gate, and 
Humberstone-gate. The principal inns near the 
High Cross were deserted, and the Three Crowns and 
Three Cranes, in Gallowtree-gate, became the chief re- 
sort for travellers. The town, within the walls, was at 
that time not more than a quarter of a mile square. 
The four gates were taken down in 1774. Over the 
east gate there was an upper story, which made the 
opening so low, that a loaded waggon could not pass 
under it. The Church-gate was the town ditch, full 
of mire, with a few houses standing on the eastern 
bank. The houses were all made of wood and plaster, 
not more than two storeys high. The varieties of roof 
and gables lunging upon one another, gave the old 
place a picturesque appearance. The chief street was 
Highcross-street, where stood the building of the Old 
Cross, which left scarcely room for a carriage to pass. 
In the High-street, was a mansion built of stone, be- 
longing to the Huntingdon family, called the Lord's 
House, of which only one turret remams, now cased 



ORNAMENTAL TREES. 11 

with brick, and the highest object in the street. A 
very enlivening feature were the trees scattered through 
the town. Opposite to the Borough gaol (which was 
made out of St. Peter's church) were the elm trees, 
two gigantic fellows, who stretched their arms comn 
pletely across the street. In summer time they formed 
a pleasant shade, where many a pot of stout October 
regaled the idlers of that day. Near to King Richard's 
house, stood a remarkably tall hoUy. Its smooth 
silver stem, with bushy top, mounted greatly above 
the houses. Just below the Confrater's house, was a 
row of massive chestnut trees, hiding some ^^tched 
buildings. On this spot stand the white houses, built 
by our townsman, Johnson, who, I believe, visited 
Italy after he had become a London banker, and iu- 
troduced the art of stuccoing — ^probably the first 
instance of its being used in England. 

In the Market-place was the Pigeon Tree, under 
which country women sat to seU pigeons, a great 
article of food brought from the open com fields that 
surrounded Leicester in all directions. Opposite the 
Post-office there was a grove of trees, under which 
stood the small thatched inn called the Jolly Miller. Be- 
tween this and the coal-yard, at the comer of Rutland- 
slareet, was a horse pond, where the porters from the 
Crowns and the Cranes washed their horses. All these 
rural features have disappeared. As our manufiEictures 
and population have incsreased, the ground has become 
toQ vakiaUe to allow these sylvan ornaments to remain. 



12 Chap. 4. 



CHAPTER IV. 

ELECTION — ^PBETBNDER— COBPOEATION — ^POCHIK AND H17N6EB- 
FOED — ^BIOTS — MUSIC BUENT — ^W. EVANS, ESQ. — ^DUKB OP 
WELLINOTON. 

1775. — ^In this year, the contested election of 
Pochin and Hungerford took place, which was carried 
on with unexampled violence and animosity. To ex- 
plain this excess of party feeling, it is necessary to state, 
that such were the Jacobite principles of the Corpora- 
tion, in 1745, that when the Pretender was at Derby, 
every bakehouse was put in requisition to cook victuals 
for the rebel army, expected in Leicester the very next 
day ; thus avowing their hatred to the Hanoverian 
succession. The opponents were the Whig famiUes of 
the county, who had mainly assisted to place the pre- 
sent family upon the throne. At the head of these, 
were Lord Stamford, the Duke of Rutland, Su* John 
Danvers, and many others. The Corporation, a 
seK-elected body, possessed a powerful influence, and 
to counteract this, the Whigs made a common purse 
to support the election. My father being an active 
person, and a great friend to constitutional liberty, was 
entrusted v^dth untold gold to bribe the voters, in the 
cause of Mr. Pochin, the Whig candidate. Scarcely a 
person could be found who did not enter into the con- 
test with ungovernable warmth, and the females espe- 
cially, who were, in their electioneering fervour, decked 



ELECTIONS. IS 

out profusdy in party-coloured silks and ribbons. 
The contest continued through several weeks, and, 
powerftd as the country gentlemen were on the Liberal 
side, the Corporation triumphed, and Mr. Pochin lost 
his election. 

Another scene of drunkenness and riot, was the 
contest of Parkyns and Montelieu, which lasted many 
weeks; and had not a cpmpromise taken place, num- 
bers would have lost their Uves, and probably half the 
town would have been destroyed. The votes being 
nearly balanced, the madness of the parties increased, 
as the polling drew near to a close ; and, to save 
the town from farther tumult and disorder, it was 
agreed that each side should withdraw a candidate. 
The moment the hitherto contending mobs saw that 
there was an end put to their drunkenness, they cordi- 
ally united to be revenged on the candidates. The 
Exchange and the Concert-room, where the commit- 
tees sat, were instantly ffutted. The archives of the 
Corparation. with the uLy of muric, were torn to 
pieces, and, with the musical instruments, were com- 
mitted to the flames of a huge bonfire in the Market- 
place. If a troop of horse had not at that moment 
entered, dispersing the wretches in aU directions, the 
consequences might have been dreadful. 

In the election of 1826, not less than sixty thou- 
sand pounds were spent in this disgraceful way. The 
upright William Evans, Esq., told me that his com- 
mittee had spent him twenty-two thousand pounds ; 



14 DUKE OF WSLLINGTON. Chap. 4. 

which sum was found instifficient to send him to Parlia- 
ment. What an improvement is the present mode of 
election, compared with that which had been prac- 
tised for the last hmidred years ! How true was the 
observation made by the Duke of Wellington to a 
friend of mine, that the Municipal Reform was one of 
the best measures the Whig Ministry ever passed. 



-f- 



CHAPTER V. 

EDUCATION — TKIGONOMETBY — ABrTHUB KEBSHAW — FBXNOH 
LANGUAG* — BASHFULNE88 — BOYS* TBICKS — SUPEB8TITIOU3 
FEABS. 

1777. — ^In this year, I was sent to Mr. Carrick^s 
day school, where I learnt httle more than writing, and 
the first rules of arithmetic. As soon as school was 
over, I ran home, anxious to be employed in anything 
I could do in my father's manufactory, for I had no in- 
clination to join in the sports of my schoolfellows. 
My father had a taste for hteratm^, so that in asso- 
ciating with him, I had many more subjects presented 
to my mind, than if I had been placed at a boarding 
school. I have often lamented that I had not the ad- 
vantage of a classical education ; yet, in some respects, 
this loss has quickened my exertions in obtaining in- 
formation wherever I could find it. Among my father's 
acquaintances were some of superior talent. When 



ARTHUR KBRSHAW. 15 

they came to smoke a pipe with him, in the evening, I 
petitioned to sit up, that I might hear the conversation. 
Now and Ihen I ventured to interpose a question, 
which was kiadly answered. This gratified me and 
strengthened my confidence. 

A book on Trigonometry fell in my way ; the lined 
circles greatly excited my attention ; and when I found 
it was a branch of study, by which the distance of the 
heavenly bodies could be ascertained, I teased my fa- 
ther to let me be taught what appeared so curious and 
strange. No master, however, could be found except 
William Ward, a stocking-maker, who hved opposite to 
us. We began with Algebra, but so deficient was he 
in the knack of explanation, that he failed in commu- 
nicating to others what was famihar to himself, and 
I gave it up in despair. A man of this sort the Egyp- 
tians represented by the figure of a dark-lanthom, 
elosed on all sides ; though illumiaed within, it afPorded 
no light to others. 

Some years afterwards, Arthur Kershaw, a teacher 
of languages, came to Leicester, well recommended. 
Mr. Goltman's two sons, Mr. Harley Vaughan, and 
I, were sent to him, as scholars, to set him a go- 
ing. I began with Latin, and had I been intended 
for a learned professon, my master could not have 
laboured more to drive into me all the niceties of 
Lilly's Grammar. Tired of the endless rules and ex- 
ceptions, I begged to relinquish it for the French, and 
launched into the more &thomable sea of Cham- 



16 PARIS — BASHPULNESS Chap. 5. 

baud. The pronuBciation of the French, . so very 
unlike the English, took my fancy. I had an .ear for 
aH sorts of souad^ ; %nd what. was difficult iv^th jmany, 
was comparatively easy to me. For aoqum|ig a 
language by rote I had no talent ; but to acquire it by^ 
eai^ was natural. . In after life I visited Paris with a 
learned friend who well understood the language, but 
could-not hit off the * pronunciation. He was vexed 
upoB askiiag a qiiestioAio hear the reply " Je ne vgm 
entende pas'! (I don't underetand you). The plan we 
adopted was this : my. friend formed, thq sentence, and 
r gave the pBonunciation, and thus we got on very well. 
Thimgh:our langunge-ioaster had airived fat Iniddle 
age, he. was so sheepishly. J}ashful.tiiiat, he, could not 
look any one in the fiac6. When, he was talking 
(which he did in a very pompgus , jjiajiner), . he 
constantly turned his head away, looking over his 
shoulder, fi9 ii appreh^n^ng ai) attack frofti -behind. 
Ia.the.jstEe^ hip shuffljjjg gait was so rapid ai;id sneakr 
ing,'tlmt he appeared like a thief nmning away from 
has pursuers. .Thimgh -well iftform^, he was highly 
supprstitiqus, anji belicTed in ghosts. Early pne morn- 
ing I;was %t.schoqjtbdferfi%fompanipnShjid arrived. 
0^ MsugQiog dc^mifita^ .(jpptriyed 

to &:et out of the wifiikyw and \wms^ then 'at tltt door. 
On seeing me he vas amazed, and ^id ''^I thought I 
had left you up-stairs." "X^u must be mistaken. Sir," 
I replied r " WeH" 'hi 'said, "I a^n often trdu^ed 
with such hallucijaations" ! \ In the evening, to play 



\ 



\ 



t> 



Andante/ 



THE NIGHTINGALE. 17 





jL It is the inoiirii.tuJ Nightiiu-ffale 



If 




|,rfi, ^ -:?r - |,^,fl/' I, I 



Te me She cries Aiid still her woes at midiiig'ht 



3 




v^'B F>- | 






rise at midnight rise ' Te rue Te rtie Slu- 





is 



K-^ 







^^^^m 



M 




song now charms tht; car 

•::t:. 



None but 





:/»if ii ,nr i f ^ i ^n^: ^ 



Lark can biug^ su clfar 




can bitig* bo clear At 





J 

"; 
• i 



l!> 




mut-n ...... nut waking-, wttk-Jng- till she 




:dO 



H O H N P I P E . 



VIOLONCCllO. 




r 



t^ 



GALLANTHr. 21 

4iim a trick, we 8t?abk some glasa crackei^ in the 
candle, which, in about Ian hour, exploded with a loud 
rqport,^ Wew out the candle, md left us in the dark. 
A particle of glass hit his forehead.* He* cried aloud, 
ami ^aid it was his opposite neighbour who had a-de- 
sign upon his Hfe, and h«d fiped a pistol at him! 
When in the company of females he was dreadfully 
embarraseed. To put hi3 gallantry to the test my . 
Mend C borrowed his sister s clothes, and per- 
sonated a young lady leaning on the arm of a g^tle- 
man, who wisdted tipon hiin'tt) be t^^ht French. On 
seeibg a petticoat enter the room, he was alarmed, and 
turned his back upon the visitors. . The lady ex- 
pressed a wish to be taught some lessons. Kershaw 
firmly repUed he never taught ladies. As the fair one 
. appi*oached,f he receded into a comer, when, laying 
hold of his arm, she said she would not be denied. 
He screamed out in an agony of fright, and we, pretty 
fellows, burst out in a roar of laughter as the strangers 
fled fropi the 4:00m. Our valiant teacher did not.efer- 
get this insufferable . attack upon him for some •time, 
nor did he ever make out who had assaulted him in 
this abominable way. Tfeis «ecene was in the last act 
' of my schooldays, which terminated with more fun thdn 
discipline. 



i ' 



♦ 



^^ Chap. 6. 



CHAPTER VI. 

CORBET — MR. BENTLEY — INDUSTRY — THE CRANKY MISS B. — 

KICKED DOWN STAIRS. 

Among the public characters mentioned by 
Throsby, in his History of Leicester, is William Corbet, 
a little prig of a man, who lived with Mr. Bentley, the 
draper, was the only tradesman who discounted paper 
money, there being no bankers in Leicester till the time 
of Carr and Hodges. Corbet was his servant, for more 
than forty years, and proved an honest, obsequious 
creature. Being very fond of dress, he selected from 
his master's shop a variety of articles with which he 
adorned his diminutive person, and, in fuU costume, 
looked very much hke a large dressed-up doll. 
Though a bachelor of sixty years' standing, such were 
his womanish habits, that, from his youth, he had 
employed himself in making his own clothes, shirts, 
and every domestic article in which the needle was 
employed. Indeed, he was one of the exquisites 
of the day. At Mr. Bentley 's decease he set up 
housekeeping himself, but kept no servant, as he 
shunned the society of females. At Corbet's death, 
Throsby says, " his house was found stuffed with cloth- 
ing of every description. The sale of his goods af- 
forded much amusement. He had forty suits of 
clothes, twenty dozens of shirts, 120 table-cloths, and 



CORBET MISS B. 28 

as many napkins ; fifty pairs of sheets, fifty dozens of 
purses; besides innumerable other instances of his 
patient industry." 

We had in Leicester another singular character 
of the opposite sex — Miss B. — an old maid, described 
in a paper of that day, as one of the most cranky, ill- 
natured, maggoty, peevish, conceited, censorious, out- 
of-the-way, never-to-be-pleased, good-for-nothing crea- 
tures that ever appeared in the world. Her cold 
commanding brow put to flight everything nuld and 
cheering. She was rich, and that for Corbet was 
sufficient attraction. It was whispered that she had 
taken a fancy to him on accoimt of his saving dispo- 
sition, and that, if he could get introduced to her, the 
lady might be won. Miss B. was of a robust, mascu- 
line make, strong both in body and mind. She had 
more of the rough-and-ready even in her Uttle finger, 
than the insipid Corbet in his whole body. By an 
extraordinary effort of courage our hero waited upon 
the lady, and met with a tolerable reception. In his 
eagerness to recommend himself, he began to descant 
upon his money, and modestly hinted at the shirts, 
sheets, and napkins, which he could lay at )ier feet on 
the wedding day, all the product of his own hands. 
Alas ! this display of his notable industry excited only 
her contempt. She arose with the utmost indignation, 
and marched him out of the room. In his hurry and 
fright, he fell down stairs ; but from the passionate 
violence of the lady, the general belief was, that shQ 

c2 



24 JOURNEY TO DUPFIELI>— PONY. Chap. 5. 

kicked him down stairs. This is the incident referred 
to in the following song : — 

SONG— (Page 38.) 

Wlien late I attempted 
Your passion to prove, 
Why were you so deaf to my prayers ? 
Perhaps you were light, » 
To dissemble your love, 
But why did you kick me down stairs ? 



CHAPTER VII. 

« 

JOURNEY TO DUPPIELD — PONY — GALLOWS — BIRSTALL SANDS — 
DERBY — ^BOOTS AND SPUBS — ANDERSEN. 

1778. — ^When I was eight years old, I prevailed 
upon my parents to let me pay a visit to my grand- 
mother at Duifield, in Derbyshire. A neighbour of- 
fered to lend me his pony, and as it was very tract- 
able, I was permitted to venture upon this exploit by 
myself. Long before the day arrived I dreamed of 
nothing but my journey ; nor was I sure of the pro- 
mised pleasure until I felt my feet in the stirrups, 
and heard the creaking of the new saddle on which 
I had mounted. It was dark when I set off in the 
morning, and by the time I had reached Belgrave, it 
occurred to me that the road passed close to thp gal- 
lows, where I had lately seen a woman hanged fpr 



I 



GALLOWS DERBY. 25 

murder. As it was not yet light, my spirits were flut- 
tered at the thought of passing this place. Luckily, 
I perceived a light on the road before me — ^it was the 
driver of Clarke's broad-wheeled waggon, who carried 
a lanthom in his hand. I was fortunate to fall in 
with a companion at this moment, and joined him 
with great pleasure, teUing him everything about my 
journey. As we passed the gallows, however, I could 
not help, now and then, glancing my eye towards it, 
expecting to see some spirit flitting through the dark 
firs that surrounded it When we were clear of this 
horrible place, I was about to trot off ; but we were 
just entering upon Birstall sands, a noted spot for 
highwaymen, and I thought it better to submit to 
the snail-like pace of the waggon till we had got clear 
of this second danger. I then made the best of my 
way, and did not stop till I arrived at Derby. 

As I rode up the main street, it was a question 
with me where I should put up. I wanted my din- 
ner, and so did the pony. I looked at every sign. At 
last we came to a small inn — the Horse and Trumpet 
— ^which I thought I had courage to enter. In the 
room, into which I was shown, I espied a trumpet 
hanging up, and, to my comfort, I found that the 
landlord was a musician. The family dinner was just 
ready, and I was ready to join it. After making a 
hearty dinner, I ventured to call for a glass of rum 
and water, called grog — ale I had never tasted. With 
this I felt much elated, and proved very good com- 



1 



26 BOOTS AND SPURS. Chap. 7. 

pany. At three o'clock, I ordered out my pony from 
the stable, where I had seen him fed, paid my reckon- 
ing, and set off for DufBeld. I forgot to state that I 
had saved my money to buy myself a pair of jockey 
boots ; and, what was more briUiant in my eyes, as 
an appendage to the bck)ts, was a pair of silver spurs, 
which gave a finish to my equestrian appearance. 
In half an hour after leaving Derby, I was at my 
grandmother's house. The good old lady pulled me 
off my Bucephalus, and almost smothered me with 
kisses. My pony was quartered at Mr. Wood's, a 
near neighbour, who occupied the water-mill over the 
Derwent. I took great delight in my visits to this 
gentleman's house, for he had a daughter of my own 
age, in whom I was much interested. . Desirous of 
making a smart appearance in the eyes of • my Uttle 
Daphne, I was careful to be dressed in my best ; and 
I well recollect looking in the glass and approving the 
figure I beheld. My rosy cheeks, bright teeth, and 
wavy locks, still remain to this day impressed on my 
recollection, with undiminished clearness. This will 
scarcely be credited by many ; but the poet Andersen 
says, " the mind forgets nothing ; everything can 
again be awakened, as fi-esh and living as the moment 
when it happened." The performance of this journey 
raised me in my own estimation not a little, and from 
it I acquired a confidence that never forsook me. 



27 



CHAPTER VIII. 

6EEAT MEETING — YOUNG SINGER — FLOWERS — PSALMODY — 

MESSIAH. 

The congregation of Dissenters who worship in the 
Great Meeting had its rise Aug. 24, 1662, when forty- 
one ministers in Leicestershire, and as many in Nor- 
thamptonshire, gave up their hvings, rather than con- 
form to the ritual of the Church. A great portion of 
the congregations followed the preachers, and built 
meeting houses at Harborough, Kibworth, Wigston, 
Narborough, Hinckley, Mountsorrel, Loughborough, 
Bardon, and elsewhere. This event laid the foundation 
of that vast spread of Dissent which prevails in the 
two counties. 

As in the time of Luther, psdmody was a rally- 
ing-point among seceders, so the Great Meeting, 
Leicester, being the centre from which the love of 
rehgious Uberty emanated, psalm-singing became 
prevalent among the pious famihes. The tunes were 
of the most lugubrious cast ; but!, as the age softened 
from rigid Puritanism, more sprightly tunes found 
their way into the conventicles. My father, a great 
lover of music, who assisted as an amateur performer 
in the coronation ceremonies of George III., was the 
first to infuse a more cheerful style into the singing 
at the Great Meeting. This is alluded to in Nicholiss 



N 



28 YOUNG SINGER. Chap. 8. 

fliatory of Leicestershire y where the choir is spoken of 
as " fonning a musical society, cultivated with great 
care, and justly celebrated for its excellence." This 
is the more remarkable, as the Scotch Presbyterians 
have shown a total neglect of sacred music in their 
worship, even to this day. It may be said, I was 
nursed in psalmody. At the age of jBve, by the offer 
of some ripe cherries, I was induced to sing the solo 
in Knapp's wedding anthem, " Thy wife shall be as a 
fruitful vine upon the walls of thine housed Set upon 
a bench in the chapel, I thus made my debut as a 
singer. As I grew up, I was not insensible to the dis- 
tinction which this gave me among boys of my own 
age, and, with a good ear and a good voice, I wanted 
no incentive to excel. My chief merit lay in the 
obvious pleasure I took in singing, and it was evident 
that I sang from the heart. With what pleasure did 
I hear the church bells announce the return of the 
Sabbath. Sunday mornings, then, were gay among 
the lower orders. Every one appeared in a bright 
suit of clothes, and, as the cultivation of flowers was 
then a prevalent taste, many had pinks or roses 
stuck in the button-holes of their coats — ^some came 
to chapel with flowers in their mouths. After service, 
I frequently went with my father to see their nicely- 
kept gardens, all of which have now unhappily dis- 
appeared. I never can forget the mournful ditties of 
our forefathers, which gave a tinge to my early 
thoughts. How dismal were the tunes called Gar- 



MESSIAH ANTHEM. 29 

grave, Stroud, and Bangor, rendered still more so by 
the practice of singing the note below the key (in the 
nunor mood) a full tone, instead of half a tone. This 
antiquated method still continues; I heard it, in a 
Welsh congregation, at Aberystwith, seventy-six years 
afterwards. In vain have I sought for the small 
anthem books of that day — sprinted long before my 
pubUcations issued from the cathedrals. A great 
advance was made by the Musical Magazine, 1780, in 
which the Messiah was first published in the G clef. 
All the treble songs I sang with passionate fondness. 
It was at the time of possessing this book, that I fell 
into a deep cistern, and was but just saved from 
drowning. My father called upon me to sing a song 
of thanksgiving for my narrow escape, and placed 
before me the song, " / knoto that my Redeemer liveth,'* 
which I sang with a sorrowful heart, and eyes full of 
tears. 

Bond, the organist of Coventry, pubUshed a set of 
anthems, quite suitable for the very mean talent of that 
day. In this collection there was one for Christmas- 
day, which I always sang with heart-felt gle6 ; since, 
immediately after service, we dined with my grand- 
father, where we had plum-pudding, baked and boiled. 
Dr. Boyce's anthems were printed soon after, which 
proved a mine of excellent music. Unfortunately, 
there was but one solo for a treble-boy in the book 
written in the C clef. I sang all the tenor songs. 
The last movement of Praise the Lord, ye servardsy 



80 EARLY MUSIC. Chap. 9. 

that expresses the rising up of the sun to the going 
down of the same — certainly is more droll than devout, 
by the fix)licsome accompaniment of the bass, which 
is quite beneath the gravity of the subject. I shall en- 
large upon his excellent compositions when I speak of 
Drs. Croft, Green, and Boyce. 



CHAPTER IX. 

PAEENTS — ^WRESTLING — FASHION — FEASTS — COBPOBATION — 

WAKES. 

An old lady once observed, in my hearing, that 
my father and mother, when first married, were a 
handsome couple. My father was of the middle size, 
well made, with an intelligent face, and handsome leg. 
My mother was fair, with a fine open countenance, 
shaded with auburn locks, which she carried to her 
grave, without a single grey hair, in her 76th year. 

Wresthng was then considered a manly accomphsh- 
ment among gentlemen, and, as my father was strong 
and active, he was persuaded to accept a challenge 
from Mr. Carr, the banker, who teased him to try his 
strength in this way, though very contrary to his known 
tastes and habits. The match took place in pubhc, 
agreeable to the fashion of that day, when the man of 
money was presently thrown, greatly to the amuse- 
ment of the by-standers. The dress of that time has 



PARENTS FASHION. 31 

totally disappeared. My father wore his hair in imi- 
tation of the enormous wigs, worn by the higher 
circles. My mother had a high cushion placed on her 
head, over which the front hair was combed, to join 
that behind. When propped up on a pair of high- 
faeeled shoes, she looked more like a giantess than a 
middle-sized woman.* Ladies of fashion were still 
more formidable. Their wide hooped petticoats so 
spread out the figure, that the men appeared diminutive 
creatures by the side of them. Cocked hats were 
universally worn. The gentry had them laced with 
silver or gold, to match the lace on their clothes. 
Now-a-days they would be taken for livery servants. 
Black was never considered as fall dress, and was only 
worn for mourning, and the fasliionable world ghttered 
in all the colours of the rainbow. 

Our victories at sea, during the American war, so 
raised .the enthusiasm of the country, that many en- 
tered the navy to partake of the national glory, and the 
short-knee'd breeches were laid aside for the sailors' 
trousers. This alteration had a great effect upon the 
Leicester trade. Stockings were shortened intp half- 
hose, and what we lost in the length of stockings the 
Yorkshire clothier gained in the increased length of 
cloth in the trousers. This circumstance entirely de- 
stroyed the manufacture of those beautiful and curious 
stockings, which till then, fashion was constantly 

* In the Tatler^ the shoe heels are described as four inches 
high, and the wigs three feet long. 



32 FEASTS FAIRS. , Chap. 9. 

changing with the utmost variety. At that time we 
were not so thick upon the ground as at present, the 
whole population being not more than ten thousand. 
There was less luxury and more leisure. We had 
numerous feasts in the course of the year. There was 
the venison feast, the tradesmen's feast, the florists* 
feast, the singers' feast, and many others, at which vast 
libations of ale were consumed. The grandest enter- 
tainment was the Mayor's feast, which began at three 
o'clock, with a whet of collared brawn to sharpen the 
appetite for dinner at four. The table was amply 
served with an abundance of game, sent by the gentry 
of the county, which, with a pipe of wine from the 
town funds, kept the more loyal part till three o'clock 
in the morning. 

Wakes and fairs were continually occurring, in 
which the lower orders indulged in all sorts of sports, 
as cock-throwing, football, and singlestick. The work- 
people had their clubs, foot-ales, and candle-blocks. 
The farmers had their sheep-shearing. Maypoles, and 
harvest-cart. In the upper classes, dancing and cards 
prevailed ; but the grand amusement among the gentry 
was cockfighting. The mains to be fought were ad- 
vertised in every paper, and were as conunon as 
the cricket matches at this time Sometimes, one 
hundred cocks were slaughtered in a day. The theatre 
of this amusement, called the cock-pit, stood where 
now stand the Assembly Rooms. Even men of rank 
and fashion joined in this cruel sport, and, like our 



DR. FRANKLIN. 33 

Saxon ancestors, hunted all day and drank all night. 
The milder sports were angling, bowling, and archery. 
Of domestic music there was none. It was a rare thing 
to meet with a jingling spinnet or harpsichord. It is 
to the invention of the pianoforte, that we must ascribe 
the brilhant and expressive eflFects of modem art, and 
the general spread of a musical taste in all ranks of 
society. 



CHAPTER X. 



DR. FBANKLIN — KING GEO. III. — GEN. BUEGOYNE — BUNKEE's- 
HILL — POETS — ANDEE — WASHINGTON ^- MONODY — MISS 
SEWAED — LOED CHATHAM. 



1776. — ^The American war was the great pubUc 
event of my early life, and, probably, the most impor- 
tant in its results, that ever happened in the history 
of mankind. The colonists were threatened with the 
severest chastisement if they dared to resist the mea* 
sures of the authorities we set over them. Doctor 
Erankhn was sent over to represent to the government 
the unpopularity of its arbitrary proceedings, with an 
offer to raise three hundred and jSfty thousand pounds, 
on their grievances being removed. Every effort at 
conciliation was made by them, and Lord Chatham 
may be said to have lost his life, in his strenuous en- 
deavours to prevent this imnatural quarrel. King 



34 , BUNKER S-HILL. Chap. 10. 

George III. no one could turn. He insisted upon un- 
conditional submission, without any redress. Resist- 
ance was laughed at. The colonists were described as 
a lawless rabble, without arms, food, or clothing, which 
a single regiment would instantly put down. General 
Burgoyne said, " give me a broomstick, and I will go 
through the country.*' This silly piece of boasting has 
been confirmed in Lord Oxford's Memoirs, published 
in 1848. During the altercation, government con- 
trived to send over by small detachments not less than 
ninety-one thousand foot, and eleven thousand horse. 
I remember the plan of the battle of Bunker's-hill, 
fought June 17, 1775, being published in the Leicester 
Journal^ and how interested the Dissenters were in the 
struggle, as friends to civil and reUgious liberty. The 
capture of General Burgoyne and the whole of his 
army, early in the contest, was an event that raised the 
enthusiasm of the Americans, and promised them 
ultimate success. How that General must have blushed 
when compelled to lay down his arms to a foe, whom 
he had treated with such gross contempt. Poets and 
musicians have nothing to do with arms. Though 
Burgoyne did not shine in the field, yet, as a bard, he 
was pre-eminent. See his beautiful song : — 

" Why will Maria, when I gaze, 
My ravished eyes reprove, 
And chide them fix)m the only face, 
They can behold with love." * 

♦ Page 620, vol. 2 of this work. 



MAJOR ANDRE. 35 

The next striking event was that of Major Andre 
being detected as a spy. General Arnold, a distin- 
guished leader in the American cause, foiled in his 
ambitious views, determined to go over to the English, 
as soon as an opportunity offered. He contrived to 
make his intention known to the British commander. 
Sir Henry Clinton. Being a matter of great moment 
he despatched the young officer, Andre, in the disguise 
of a peasant, to arrange the affair with Arnold, whom he 
found waiting on the shore. To insure his safe return, 
Arnold gave him a certificate that he was an American, 
and, with this, Andre had passed all' the posts but the 
last. After he had been examined by three young 
volunteers, one of them perceiving something in his 
manner that did not accord with his appearance, called 
him back, and said he was not satisfied. When about 
to be more narrowly searched, he offered them his gold 
watch to let him go, and afterwards a purse of one 
hundred guineas. The bribe had no effect. In his 
boots were found the terms of Arnold's defection, in 
his own hand-writing. Eleven days were spent 
in negociating for this officer's release. The whole of 
the rebel prisoners were offered in exchange for him ; 
but Washington was not to be moved from his first 
resolve, that he would give him up for Arnold, but on 
no other conditions. The tears stood in the General's 
eyes, when he ordered this amiable young man to be 
hanged, who, he said, was less culpable than either of 
the commanders, whom he had served. When the 



] 



36 MAJOR ANDRE. Chap. 10. 

news arrived in England, it produced a pang in every 
breast. At this time, I recollect Mr. Savill was in 
Leicester, the great friend of Miss Seward, who wrote 
the touchmg monody upon this unfortunate officer. 
The words are magnificently set to music by Paxton, 
and it is, perhaps, the finest instance of glee writing in 
our language :— 

" Bound the hapless Andre's urn, 
Be the cypress foliage spread ; 
Fragrant spice profusely bum, 
Honours gratefiil to the dead. 

Let a soldier's manly form, 
Guard the vase his ashes bears, 
Truth in living sorrows warm. 
Pay a mourning nation's tears. 

Fame his praise upon thy wing. 
Thro' the world dispersing tell. 
In the service of his king, 
In his countiy's cause he fell." 



tin 



Moderate 



S O N G. 




IVhen' late I ut. - tenpted yonr pHssion 



to 



m 





^7if J". J J I J J ^1 I I 








I 



If r 'r i r j ^ 




rteaf t6 my prayers J^ecL.hapK yon were 

^t— * 




rig;iit to di8..iienible iloar lovt* But why did yon 





39 







41 



CHAPTER XL 

PLAY — SOUTHG4.TE — ^MISS FASREN — DANCING — MB. SIDDONS — 

MISS o'NEALE. 

t 

The pleasure I had on first seeing a play, is not to 
be described. I was completely fascinated, and the 
whole appeared a reality. 

Our townsman. Chamberlain, a basket maker, 
living near the East-gates, was a clever facetious fellow, 
who occasionally convened a company of comedians at 
Leicester. He was an amateur actor, as well as being 
manager. The Assembly Room was fitted up with 
boxes, pit, and gallery ; and as a patron of the art. 
Chamberlain invited young aspirants to the stage, to 
make their debut in Leicester. I remember Mr. and 
Mrs. Siddons — ^then, of no notoriety. Southgate, a 
buflfoon, dehghted me with his grimaces. His coming 
on in the character of a down-looking, disconsolate 
bachelor, and singing the following song, I can never 
forget : 

SONG.— Page 218. 

A lonely bachelor am I ; 

I live upon a second floor ; 
I cannot many, the reason why, 

I am so desperately poor. 

I know a girl, 

But dare not court her, 
Because I've nothing 

To support her. 



42 MISS FARREN. Chap. 11. 

The first play I saw in London, was one in which 
Miss Farren appeared. I do not recollect the piece ; 
but there is an engraving of her, taken from one of the 
scenes, in a morning dress, dangling a muff upon her 
left arm. Charming in manner, as in person, she rose 
to a coronet, as the Countess of Derby. It was said of 
her, by Lord Mount Edgecumbe, who possessed a fine 
taste in music and acting, that when she left the stage, 
genteel comedy became extinct. 

In the opera-house, I saw a beautiftd young English 
dancer, the daughter of a hairdresser, who fascinated 
the audience through a whole season, with her cele- 
brated hornpipe (vide page 360). Before the time of 
Noverre, the great improver of this art, it may be said 
that dancing was exhibited only in the feet, but in this 
yoimg lady, the whole person contributed to the ele- 
gance of her style. Nature bad been lavish in her 
flexible form, and though she indulged in an exquisite 
variety of graceful attitudes, she never broke through the 
strict bounds of modesty. The music to which she 
danced was stubborn and unyielding, but this helped to 
show off, by contrast, her snake-like evolutions. This 
lady was taken off the stage, and became a Duchess. I 
have heard it observed that dancers have no genius ; and 
it has been pleasantly remarked, that their minds fall 
into their limbs, and their understandings into their 
feet. 

Mrs. Siddons, who was in Leicester in 1778, I 
again saw in the height of her career, in 1794. Her 



MRS. SIDDONS. ^43 

native dignity was very striking. As Lady Macbeth 
she was evidently a Queen, bom to govern and subdue. 
Her figure and stem expression seemed made for the 
character. Her acting, at times, appeared to me a 
little strained, beyond the dictates of nature. After- 
wards, I saw her rival, Miss O'Neale. It was in a 
scene of domestic life, easy to be understood, in which 
she touched the inmost soul. Her cfaptivating manner 
surpassed][what fancy could conceive. What charmed 
me most, were the impassioned tones of her voice, 
giving a pathos which sank deep into the heart. A 
striking excellence was a regular, unbroken, and con- 
sistent character, from which she never departed to 
obtain applause. I saw her (as Mrs. Haller, in The 
Stranger^ overpowered with female distress. You could 
not conceive it to be a studied piece of acting — ^it was 
the utterance of passionate nature. 

It is observed, in the life of Schiller, that the stage 
with us is a harmless pastime ; wholesome, because it 
occupies the man, by occupying his mental, not his 
sensual faculties. The Germans consider it a mode of 
refining the hearts and minds of men, and talk of it as 
a lay pulpit, the worthy ally of the sacred one. Per- 
haps it would be better for us, that this view of it 
should be encouraged in England ; it possibly might 
drive away our national vice of drunkenness. 



D 2 



44^ Chap. 12. 



CHAPTER XII. 

BOTHLEY — THE MILL — RAMBLES. 

1778. — I was nearly eight years of age when I ac- 
companied my father to Rothley wake. Our visit was 
to Mr. Scampton, a worthy old bachelor. Being 
amused with my talkative disposition, he persuaded my 
father to let me stay with him for a few months. It 
was summer time, and as I had seldom seen the fields, 
everything was new to me, and I had the utmost de- 
Ught in rambhng about. In front of Mr. Scampton's 
house was a field of com, the stalks of which were 
taller than myself. Into this I crept, to gather the 
purple and yellow fiowers, of which I made magnificent 
wreaths. The field had one gentle rise, as far as 
Mountsorrel ; on the most elevated part stood Rothley 
windmiU. Few days passed in which I did not pay 
my respects to the miller. He was always glad to see 
me, as I had many things to teU him, of which he 
knew nothing, and he was entertained with my com- 
pany. The rocking of the miU in a high wind, and 
the roar of the sails, I thought frightfully grand. It 
brought to my mind the picture of Don Quixote, fight- 
ing the giant windmills. Ever since, I have had a 
poetic sensation in visiting the windmills in Leicester- 
shire ; from every one of their elevated situations you 
enjoy a charming prospect. In the village, I found a 



CHARNWOOD FOREST. 45 

companion of my own age, who lived with His mother, 
near to us ; not a vulgar lad, but one that was gentle 
and pleasing. Every day we strolled through over- 
grown lanes, searching hedge-bottoms for wild 
flowers; sometimes we rambled as far as Rothley 
Plain, to procure rushes, of which we made grenadier 
caps and baskets. The troops of rabbits which we 
disturbed there greatly surprised me, as they scam- 
pered to their hiding-places ; I thought I should hke to 
catch some of them to take home with me, and feed them 
on sowthistles. It was a great achievement to stroll 
as far as Button Wood. Here we gathered bilberries, 
a delicious fruit, and uprooted a tall straight hazel 
from its mossy bed, but a higher prize was a peculiar 
knotted switch ; when stripped of its bark, it turned 
of a blood colour, and was a walking-stick fit for a 
gentleman. Such treasures were carried to bed with 
us, and gladdened our eyes on waking. Through the 
village there ran a merry brook, fed by the rocky 
streams of Chamwood forest. After a sultry day, with 
what pleasure did we boys repair to its sedgy banks, 
strip under the alder trees, and gambol in the water. 
Here I learnt to swim ; the water being just the depth 
to make us buoyant ; so that with a few steady strokes 
this important art was gained. This spot was a fa- 
vourite haunt for fishermen ; but I had no taste for the 
sport of pious old Isaac Walton, who tells us how 
lovingly he stuck the writhing worm upon the barbed 
hook. However, I was persuaded by two of Mr. 



46 FISHING. Chap. 12. 

Scampton's men to go with them and see the prepara- 
tions made for a fishing party the next day. This was 
by baiting the brook with grains, to lure the fish into 
certain spots, so that voracious man might pounce 
upon them while enjoying a feast. At the end of the 
village was a bridge leading to the Temple meadows : 
it was nothing more than a single plank, raised very 
high, with a hand-rail to steady you in crossing. As 
these two heroes were idly leaning against the rail, ftdl 
of the thoughts of to-morrow's sport, it snapped, and 
head and heels they fell backwards into the water. I 
was deUghted ! One of them, who had lost a limb in 
the wars, when topsy-turvy, cocked his wooden leg up 
to the stars, and I thought I should have died with laugh- 
ing at the figure he cut. The water was deep enough 
to give them a good sousing, and to save them from 
hurt in the fall. We went home much tamer than we 
set out. With what glee did I mount the harvest 
waggon for the fun of jolting over the rugged roads, 
to the wheat field. From shock to shock it slowly 
moved to gather the rustling sheaves. In the rear of 
the reapers were a fiock of gleaners — some pretty vil- 
lage girls, for one of whom I would have pilfered some 
ears to enrich her store, had I dared to do so. The 
day's toil over, we hastened home for the harvest 
supper. At the head of the board sat the worthy 
host, by whose side I was placed. Then came Will, 
Ralph, Joe, and Jim, with their wives and helpers. 
Presently a shoulder of mutton, scorching hot, as the 



HARVEST. 47 

day had been, a plum pudding, and a roasted goose 
were put on the table, when they soon fell to, each 
playing his part in good earnest. Among the guests 
was a Rothley lass, who had come from the squire's 
house, in town, to see her family and friends. She 
was so smartened up as to appear Uke a lady among 
these clowns ; their awkward manner put her to the 
blush, and she would scarcely own her former friends. 
The gingered ale went merrily rouiid. Joe, who was a 
good singer, was called upon to entertain the company. 
Seeing them tipphng a little too fast, he admonished 
them in the following song : — 

SONG. 

Beware of swallowing too much ale ; 

The more you drink, 

The worse you think ; 
Perchance your health and purse will fail : 
Beware of swallowing too much ale. 

The jokes growing coarser as it grew late, I was taken 
to bed from a scene not to be imitated ; but which was 
permitted to intrude upon the simple manners of a 
country life. Perhaps there is no period in which we 
enjoy these rural pleasures so much as in the time of 
our youth. 



4^ 



CHAPTER XIII. 

GIBBALTAS — BOBNXY — IU.UUINATION. 

I 

1781. — ^The American war had been raging for six 
years, and was unexpectedly put an end to by the sur- 
render of York town. The attack was made with such 
consummate skill by Washington, that Lord Comwallis 
owned that his army were completely surrounded, and 
obUged to lay down their arms. The news, on its 
arrival in England, would have destroyed the ministry, 
had not the news of our glorious naval victories arrived 
at the same moment. 

Rodney met with the French fleet, near to the 
island of Guadaloupe. He took and destroyed nearly 
all the large ships, with the famous Admiral Count de 
Grasse on board. Such rejoicings ran through the 
land, that we forgot our American disasters, and the 
old town of Leicester was foremost in the national 
triumph. A general illumination took place, and there 
was not a dirty lane or alley that did not join in the 
universal blaze. As the weather was beautiful, the 
streets were crowded with well-dressed spectators, 
viewing the transparent pictures and brilliant devices 
through the greatest part of the night. For a time 
our victories by sea silenced all political bickerings, 
every one partaking of the national glory. Mortified 



\ 



I 



BOMBARDMENT. 49 

as the French were, they ran their shattered ships into 
port, hastily repaired them, and, in little more than 
three months, in order to be revenged, planned, with 
the Spaniards, the siege of Gibraltar. The preppa- 
tions were upon a scale so immense, that not the least 
doubt was entertained, though the most impregnable 
fortress in the world, that this key of the Mediterranean 
would be wrested from us, after having kept it for 146 
years. General Elliot beheld the combined fleets of 
France and Spain, with hundreds of battering ships, 
drawn up in front of the fortress. The surrounding 
hills were covered with Spaniards to witness the 
attack. The bombardment began on all sides about 
nine o'clock in the morning. One who witnessed the 
sight, says, aU description would faU in attempting to 
convey adequate ideas of the scene. The very actors 
could have had only an indistinct conception of what 
"was passing. No imagination could conceive any 
thing more terrible. But it was during the night 
that the most awftd work began. The commander of 
the garrison constructed a number of furnaces, by 
which he made his cannon balls red hot, and threw 
them into the forest of ships that lay before him. I 
well remember it was said the assailants, in their con- 
sternation, covered the roofs of their gun-boats with 
raw hides, thinking that the red hot shot would sUde 
off into the sea. Seven of the largest sliips were soon 
in flames, the Ught of which enabled EUiot to direct 
his fire with unerring precision. When they were 



50 FRENCH PRISONERS. Chap. 13. 

thrown into confusion, Captain Curtis, with a few gun 
boats, completed the frightful chaos. As daybreak 
appeared, it unfolded a scene of wide-spread calamity. 

Ev^ry effort was exerted by the English to save the 

» 

enemy. The number drowned and burnt to death 
exceeded those that were killed in the engagement. 
This great victory was followed by similar demonstra- 
tions of naval skill, and the English, on the seas, were 
considered invincible. 

Captain Gamble. 

I must not forget to record an instance of naval 
heroism, to the honour of our townsman. Captain 
Gamble, who fought the memorable battle of the 
Flora and La Nymphe, The two frigates were well 
matched. After a severe and protracted engage- 
ment, with much slaughter on both sides, the La 
Nymphe was taken. This combat was considered as 
decisive of the superiority of our sailors over those of 
the French, and our captain was rewarded with 
national honours. 

During the war, the captured sailors were sent on 
their parole into the midland counties ; and we had 
many of the officers in Leicester. Their manners were 
strikingly polite, and their accomplishments, in music 
and dancing, procured for them constant invitations 
into the best company. Sunday afternoon was the 
great day of recreation. They all assembled ii^ 



FENTON. 51 

Phipps' field, on the south side of the town — ^now 
entirely covered with houses. Here they amused 
themselves in active sports of a novel kind, and 
which also greatly diverted the spectators. 

SOULEZ. 

The biUiard room was the constant resort of the 
French officers. An incident occun*ed here that 
utterly destroyed the harmony between the foreigners 
and the townspeople. Soulez was playing a game of 
bilhards with John Fenton ; a dispute arose, in which 
Fenton so grossly insulted Soulez, that he left the 
room, and shortly returned with a brace of pistols and 
demanded instant satisfaction. The pistols (loaded) 
were thrown on the table for Fenton to take his choice. 
He, dastardly seizing one of them, ran a^ay with it. 
Soulez pursued him to the Green Dragon, where 
Fenton took shelter. His brother, the landlord, a 
large stout man, endeavoured to thrust the Frenchman 
out; but in the scuffle, Soulez, who had the other 
pistol in his pocket, shot the landlord on the spot. 
Soulez was tried for the murder ; but, as there could 
have been no previous malice against the landlord, it 
was brought in manslaughter. When the French- 
man was remanded to prison, had it not been for my 
father, and a few others who were present, he would have 
been torn to pieces by the mob. The sentence was 
submitted to the judges, and, soon afterwards, Soulez 
received the King's pardon. 



52 Chap. 14. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

» 
WOLSEY — DAVY BLACK — DESTRUCTION OF THE ABBEY. 

Leicester Abbey has acquired a name in history 
as the place where Cardinal Wolsey rested on his 
journey from York, when commanded into the pre- 
sence of the King. The mortification he felt on this 
sudden downfall of his greatness was more than he 
could sustain. He sickened and died here on the 
third day after his arrival. The Abbey is now a ruin, 
standing oii a rising ground by the side of the river 
Soar, with an extensive meadow beyond, that quite 
separates it from the town. When a boy, I had great 
dehght in visiting this venerable place, being permitted 
to rove about the extensive orchards and gardens. 
Mr. Davy Black, who held this domain as tenant to 
Sir William Manners, Uved in a thatched cottage 
within the ivy-covered walls. Black was a very 
pleasant fellow, enjoyed his pipe and a jug of mild 
ale, was fond of music, and sang a good song. In 
the better sort of public houses it was not uncommon 
for half-a-dozen good voices to fire off song after song 
the night through. There was a singular humour in 
our friend Davy's performance of the following : — 



MR. DEVILLE. 53 

SONG. 

I know that 1 went to the fair, 

The miller's daughter, Sue, was there ; 

Her beauty made me gape and stare, 

A woeful sight for John. 
I feU in love upon the place ; 
I told her my unhappy case ; 
Yet stiU she turned away her face, 

And bid me get me gone. 

It was accompanied by a boon companion of his, with 
a twanging somid through the nose, like a pizzicato 
bass, that had a droll, and not mipleasing effect. My 
musical attainments always procured for me a hearty 
welcome ; and when the fruit was ripe, I was never 
slow to pay my respects to Mr. Black's cherries, to 
which I helped myself pretty freely. 

Upon the suppression of the religious houses, the 
Abbey was given to Cavendish, the faithful servant of 
Wolsey, as an atonement on the part of the King for 
his severity towards the proud Cardinal. As the 
Devonshire family sided with the parUament, when 
Charles laid siege to Leicester, in 1645, it was burnt 
down by the royal troops. Part of the chapel was 
left standing, in the windows of which were remams 
of the finest tracery. 

I was invited to be present when search was made 
to discover the remains of the Cardinal. After Eg- 
ging the whole day, the search was abandoned. I met 
Mr. Deville, the phrenologist, many years afterwards. 



54 ABBEY. Chap. 14. 

He encouraged me to renew the search, and said he 
would engage to give 200 guineas for the Cardinal's 
skull. The revenues of the Abbey were considerable, 
and the ceremonies were conducted with vast pomp 
and parade. The music was of the first order ; and, 
upon grand occasions, had the assistance of the Lady- 
Chapel's Choir in the Newark — ^vocalists of great 
eminence, all of them having received the honour of 
knighthood. On the destruction of the Abbey, the 
bells sold for £500. They were excellent ; and their 
effect, at that distance from the town, must have been 
beautifully sweet. With a slight alteration, we may 
quote the lines of Professor Hurdis, on Christ Church 
bells, at Oxford : — 

And so, too, have I paused and held my oar, 
And sufiFered the slow stream to bear me home, 
While the Abbey peal along the meadows ran. 

The Monastery gave an importance to the town of 
Leicester greatly beyond any of the neighbouring 
cities. The fall of this gorgeous structure and that of 
Wolsey might have suggested the following 

SONG.— (Page 58.) 

Alone, as I went up and down, 

In an abbey, so fair to see. 
Thinking what consolation 

Was best in my adversity : 

By chance, I cast on side mine eye. 
And saw this written upon the wall : — 

** What e'er estate, man, thou be. 
Obey and thank thy God, for aU." 



55 



CHAPTER XV. 

8KAITEBS — ^WINTER, 1783 — PANTOMIME ON THE ICE. 

1783. — ^The remark of the old man in Gil Bias 
that the peaches were not so fine as when he was a lad, 
may be applied to the seasons. The summers were 
formerly much hotter, and the winters colder than 
now. This cannot be doubted, whatever may be the 
cause. Some maintain that the draining of the land 
has worked this change, and what rather confirms this 
notion is, that a simUax effect is taking place in Ame- 
rica, by cutting down the woods and clearing the 
country. Upon the first appearance of a sharp fi^st, 
which often took place early in November, every boy 
was elated at the thought of a long winter, in which 
he could learn to skait, a pleasure that had no bounds. 
Before it was Kght we were down in the meadows, 
with frost-bitten fingers, to learn this gentleman-Uke 
diversion. The art was brought to Leicester, by the 
French and Dutch prisoners, during the American 
war, and was much taken to and enjoyed by all ranks, 
as a manly exercise. The highest point of excellence 
was to throw the body fearlessly on the outer edge of 
the skait, by which your progress ran into a succession 
of graceful curves. This cannot be attained but at the 
hazard of many dangerous falls. I too well remember. 



56 PANTOMIME. Chap. 15. 

in my first essay, that I pitched upon my head, and, 
by the violent concussion, lost my sight for some hours. 
However, so great is the charm for flying like the 
vrind, that these mishaps are soon forgotten. Ex- 
perienced skaiters perform prodigies in this vray, 
which, for elegant movement, surpass even the grace 
of the ball-room minuets. 

The winter of 1783 was so intense, and of such 
long continuance, that a party of the best skaiters got 
up a dramatic pantomime, which they performed upon 
the broad sweep of the river, opposite to the Bath 
gardens. Harlequin and Columbine were represented 
by the fleetest skaiters. They were followed by Pan- 
taloon and Justice Guttle. There had been just esta- 
bUshed a set of noisy watchmen in the town, with 
their great coats, rattles, and lanthoms. These gentry 
formed part of the dramatis persona. Besides these 
were sailors, milkmaids, gipsies, and ballad singers, 
who sang and sold droU songs, written for the occasion. 
Nuns and friars were not forgotten. The devil pur- 
suing the baker caused much laughter, as his satanic 
majesty, vdth his long tail rushed through the crowd. 
The characters were in masks and grotesquely dressed, 
and the harlequinade mightily pleased the spectators 
on the banks, who loudly applauded the scene. Goethe 
was a skaiter, and took vast pleasure in it. He says 
the word comes from Schreiten — ^to stride — ^because, 
like the Homeric gods, the skaiter strides away on 
winged shoes, over the sea-frozen plain. 



5K 



Lar|*o 



SONG. 




A.lone as 1 went up «Qd down la h Abliy'ttufair to me 

-J U- -J- 



i 



M 



m 



^ 



n 




Thinking what coii_«Miu-]Htioii!waB best in my adverd-ty 

■J- -J- -J- d . T 



n 



^m 





i- \ I ■^ i^J' i J.J' I -J^i 



By chance 1 cast ^i side mine eye ' and 




tt 









saw it .wrtten up. .on the wall 



what 



W^^ ^f^ 5 





con moto. 




t?er- esi^.tate 




O ' man there be 0_- bey and thank thv 




59 







•~-~J^^ n ■ — ■ ■ ■»■ — ^— ^ 



Jf f- i rf7r-ft 

J thaiik thy God for a ll O, , 



God for all n ,,b ev and t haiik thy God _ for a ll Q. , 





61 



CHAPTER XVI. 

STOKE GOLDING — BIGHABD II. — BICHARD III. — BOSWOETH 
FIELD — MUSIC — THUNDEBSTOBM — NIGHTINGALE. 

To young minds, what is more delightful in the 
smnmer time than a jaunt into the country, on such a 
day as I and my companions spent with our friend, 

Captain H , at Stoke ? I was then just sixteen, 

fall of life and enterprise. After breakfast, our horses 
were brought out, their sleek coats sparkling in the 
sunshine, pricking up their ears at the thought of a 
gallop over the green fields. As the morning gave 
promise of a sultry day, the dusty road, was if pos- 
sible, to be avoided. We were infonned of a way by 
Roe's Rest, but who could find it ? " Oh, the more 
intricate the better," was the cry. The restraint of the 
turnpike road promised neither pleasure nor adventure. 
Near the third milestone on the Hinckley road, we 
turned off, over pleasant knolls, by the side of fragrant 
woods, in a direction for Chamwood Forest. We 
cantered upon the glossy turf in wanton fi'olic — not in 
pursuit of the timid hare, or cunning fox, ending our 
sport in cruelty and death. 

Over this country Richard the Second galloped 
with his uncle, John O'Gaunt, after the wild boar, 
which lay hid among the thickets. How changed the 

D 



62 THE CAPTAIN. Chap. 16. 

scene \ In place of valiant knights, clad in steel, we 
beheld the mowers in their white shirts, toiling in the 
noon-day sun. Having ridden for an hour or more, 
the village of Earl Shilton came into view on our left. 
Here bold Richard the Third halted previous to the 
fight in Bosworth Field, where, in a rash encounter, 
he lost his crown and his life. 

On the wing of pleasure we hurried to our looked- 
for goal, and at length beheld the naval flag of our 
host fluttering in the breeze. In in the stable yard, a 
chorus of yelping curs and full-mouthed hounds gave 
note of our arrivd. In the antiquated hall, beneath 
the cool shade of a sycamore, the Captain met us with 
a hearty welcome, crying, " Boys, I'm glad to see you ! 
What a glorious day ! What say you to a glass of 
brown stout, to clear your dusty throats ?" In a trice 
the family tankard appeared with its frothy head, and 
thirsty as Tantalus, we swigged it to our hearts' con- 
tent. " But where are the ladies ?" " Oh, the girls ! 
the girls !" cries the Captain. " Julia, Maria, Jane, 
—hark ye, my dears, the young squires are come. 
Ambrose, where are the ladies ?" " In the garden, 
sir, among the flowers." " With your leave, Captain, 
we'll go and find them." " Aye, aye, go and look for 
the pretty rogues.^' Lothario led the way, through 
winding walks to a shady bower, where the fair ones 
lay concealed. One of these ladies was accomplished 
in music ; I gazed as much as I dare, to find out the 
nymph of my heart. Amidst the straying of eyesj I 



BOSWORTH FIELD. 63 

thought a look rested on me, which vibrated like a 
kindred sound. A walk to the village was proposed, 
to see some weapons lately found in Bosworth Meld. 
They were in the hands of the constable, who used a 
battle-axe (with the three Uons of the Plantagenets 
upon it) as his staff of office. We also saw halberts, 
spurs, and other relics of this memorable fight. The 
dinner bell now sounded from afar, and to avoid the 
heat of the day, we strolled through a shady lane. 
The elder sisters were escorted by my friends ; the 
younger, Miss Jane, fell to my care. As I walked by 
her side, I soon found that she was the Sappho of the 
family. Our conversation was on music — a subject of 
all others closely allied to love. Many pretty songs 
were cited ; some, that were new to me she promised 
to play and sing in the evening. By this time we had 
arrived in sight of the hall, where the Captain, on the 
steps, was calling us to dinner : and holding out his 
watch, said, " Ladies, I only give you ten minutes for 
your toilet ; be quick, be quick — the parson's come— 
we just make eight, th6 right number for dinner ;" the 
thought of which appeared to give him inward satis* 
faction. In the drawing-room we found the smart 
rector, with the ladies, quite at home. Presently, 
dinner being announced, the captain said, " Parson, do 
you take my eldest daughter, and I will hand this 
gentleman (meaning me), as the greatest stranger." 
On being separated from Miss Jane,' I confess I felt a 

I 

pang ; but as I sat opposite to her I had the charm of 

D 2 



64 ' MUSIC. Chap. 16. 

her eyes, which made me supremely happy. Soon 
after dinner had commenced, the captain said, "»Come, 
sir, let you and I have a glass of wine together — ^what 
say you ?" " With much pleasure," I replied ; " but, 
sir, may I be permitted to take the birch wine, which 
is excellent and peculiar to the country." " Aye, 
that's right," replied he, " and I'll take sherry." As I 
had scarcely acquired sufficient confidence to talk with 
my fair friends. Miss Julia drew me out in a conversa- 
tion upon music. Here I was at home, and was 
honoured with a handsome compliment from the rec- 
tor. As the vraie passed briskly, and the spirits of 
the party kept rising into a forte, the ladies abruptly 
left the room : I was quick enough to open the doqr, 
and my alertness was acknowledged by a gracious 
smile from Miss Jane. The Captain called for a fresh 
sort of port, which he said he could recommend, and 
seemed to begin the day anew ; a second and a third 
bottle were ordered. These libations had no charms 
for me, since the object of my adoration was gone. 
The door opening, I heard music at a distance, and, in 
a whisper, asked permission of our host to follow the 
ladies. Looking at me significantly, he gave me an 
intimation to begone. On entering the drawing- 
room, I expressed my regret that I had not heard the 
song just concluded, and hoped for a repetition. It 
was an old ballad, which I had heard once before : — 

" Say, have you in the village seen 
A lonely youth, of pensive mien ? 



1 

\ 

t 



PURCEL. 65 

If such a one hath passed by, 

With melancholy in his eye, 

Where is he gone ? Ah, tell me where ! 

Tis Allan Brook, of Windermere.*'* 

It was sung by Miss Jane. Her pensive look, and 
the soft accents of her voice, enchanted me. The 
' spell, however, was suddenly broken by the wine- 
drinkers bursting into the room. They had Hstened 
to the song, and begged to hear it again. The Cap- 
tain, however, with good taste, called upon his daugh- 
ter to sing him his favourite : — 

" In the world's crooked path where Tve been. 
There to share of life's gloom my poor part. 

The bright sunshine that softened the scene 
Was a smile from the girl of my heart." 

This was loudly applauded. I had crept into a 

corner during this interval, when my fair one asked 

me to sing. I was aware that nothing tender or 

sentimental would please at this moment, and I hit 

upon the convivial strain which Purcel sang to 

Charles the Second. 

BACCHANTE. 

" Sum up all the delights 

This world can produce, 
The darling allurements, 

Now chiefly in us, 
You'll find, when compared. 

There's none can contend 
With the solid enjoyments 

Of bottle and friend." 

* Vide Vol. I., page 660. 



66 THUNDER STORM. Chap. 16. 

For honour, or wealth, 

Or beauty, maj waste. 
Those joys often fade, 

But rarely do last ; 
They're so hard to attain, 

And so easily lost, 
That the pleasure ne'er answers 

The trouble and cost. 

None like wine and true friendship 

Are lasting and sure — 
From jealousy free, 

And from envy secure. 
Then fill up your glasses. 

Until they run o'er ; 
A friend and good wine. 

Are the charms we adore !"* 

The merriment was silenced by a flash of lightning, 
and the large drops of rain drove the ladies from the 
verandah. A roll of distant thunder followed. The 
next flash showed that the storm was rapidly approach- 
ing — ^I observed it was within a mile of us. Presently 
an instantaneous crash proved it to be overhead. The 
ladies were much alarmed, and, regarding me as a 
philosopher, enquired for the safest place. I said, 
" Come from the fireplace : the chimney is the most 
dangerous part of the room." When the storm was. 
over, we were enticed into the garden by the smell of 
sweet flowers which, old Walton says, always follows 
these electrical explosions. Presently our horses were 

* Music of Nature, page 96. 



NIGHTINGALE. 67 

saddled, and, as the soaking rain had laid the dust, we 
returned by the road. The full moon had just risen, 
beaming in all her brightness. As we passed Braun- 
stone Wood, we heard the notes of the nightingale. 
This beauteous melody harmonized with the state of 
my heart, and gave a pleasing finish to a joyous 
lovely day. 

SONG.-<Page 17.) 

What bird that sings and does so wail ? 
It is the mournful nightingale. 
"Terue, terue, terue !" she cries ; 
And stiU her notes at midnight rise. 
Her even song now charms the ear, 
None but the lark can sing so clear. 
At heaven's gate she claps her wings, 
The mom not waking till she sings. 



CHAPTER XVII. 



THE SLAVE TBADE — CAPTAIN KIMBEE — MR. BABINGTON — MR. 

SHARPE — MR. WILBERFORCE. 

The pubUc mind was first drawn to the conside- 
ration of the infamous practice of man seUing man in 
the year 1786, by a trial in the courts of law, where 
a Captain Kimber brought an action to recover the 
value of 150 slaves, whom he had tied in couples, 
head and heels together, and thrown overboard into 
the sea. 



^ I 



68 SLAVERY. Chap. 17. 

The trial was heard before Lord Kenyon, who, 
upon the opening of it, observed : — " Then, the inhu- 
manity of the transaction forms no part of the enquiry." 
" Certainly not, " rephed the Attorney-General ; 
" Slaves, having no souls, are considered as Uve lumber, 
and may be dealt with as cattle, or any dumb animal." 
Kimber justified the proceeding by saying that he was 
short of water ; and if the slaves had died a natural 
death, the loss would have fallen upon his employers. 
To avoid this, he threw them overboard. However, 
it was proved that, three days afterwards, there was 
a copious shower, and that he went into port with 
plenty of water. The captain was non-suited. 

Fortunately, a few humane persons were found in 
every town who were horror-struck at this relation, 
and, also, at the sentiments divulged by the law autho- 
rities. However, the hiunane were laughed at, for 
their mawkish sensibihty, in making a stir about a 
trade which, it was stated, they could not possibly un- 
derstand. Meetings were called, and evidence col- 
lected of the atrocities committed ; so that parUament 
was obliged to hsten to the increasing indignation ex- 
pressed by the humane part of the pubhc. Our Mr. 
Babington took the lead in the meetings at Leicester, 
and many of us abstained from eating sugar till such 
wickedness should be redressed. Dunning, the most 
eminent counsellor of the day, was much employed, and 
took briefs on both sides the question, to determine 
whether the blacks were to be considered as human 



r 



MB. BABINGTON. 69 

beings or not. Soon after, a circimistance occurred 
that introduced an able advocate of humanity into the 
field. A Barbadoes merchant had brought with him 
to England an African slave, as his servant, whom he 
used in a cruel manner, by beating him so unmerci- 
fully as to endanger his Ufe. As he was likely to die, 
iis master turned him adrift, to save expence. The 
poor fellow besought Mr. Sharpe, a sui^eon, to ad- 
minister to him some relief. Here he happened to 
meet with the brother of the surgeon (Granville Sharpe, 
Esq.,) who took pity on the unfortunate man, sup- 
ported him vnth money till he was well enough to 
work, and found him a place. When Strong (for 
that was his name) had become stout and well, his 
old master by chance saw him, and laid a plan to kid- 
nap him, which was accompUshed, and conveyed him 
to the Poultry Compter, where he was sold to Captain 
James for thirty pounds. Strong contrived to inform 
his protector, Mr. Sharpe, who instantly went to visit 
the captive, but was denied access to the prisoner; 
upon which Mr. Sharpe waited on the Lord Mayor 
(Sir Robert Kite), who demanded that Strong should 
be brought before him. The case was argued ; but, 
as negroes were considered mere cattle, the lawyers 
maintained that the man of colour must be given up 
to his master. The Mayor, however, set him at h- 
berty, on the ground that he had been taken up with- 
out a warrant. But on leaving the court, the master 
seized the prisoner again, when Mr. Sharpe put his 



70 MR. WILBERFORGE. Chap. 17. 

hand upon the tyrant and said, — " I charge you with 
an assault upon the person of John Strong," and 
called upon the bystanders to assist. The master, in- 
timidated, ran away, and left the African in the hands 
of his protector. Mr. Sharpe, after some years' fight- 
ing in parliament, obtained an act to the effect that 
the moment a slave set his foot wpon our landy that mo- 
ment he became master of his ovm person and was 
free ! 

The great ctiampion, Mr. Wilberforce, found an 
ardent fellow-labourer in Mr. Babington. If was in 
the groves of Rothley Temple that these philanthro- 
pists drew up a statement, extending to two thou&and 
pages, of th6 cruelties practised in this inhuman traffic. 
They brought down an African slave (Gustavus 
Vassey), who, in good Enghsh, preached several ser- 
mons. His appearance in a suit of black, was that of 
a fine-figured gentleman. He was very intelligent, 
and conversed with more good sense than many who 
doubted his claim to belong to the human race. This 
at once convinced every one that negroes were of the 
same species as ourselves. 



71 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

DE. CKOFT — DR. GBEEN — ^DR. BOYCE. 

Dr. Croft. 

The work of Dr. Croft, entitled Mtmca Sacra^ was 
the first foKo music-book engraved in this country, 
and, as it laid the foundation of good music in the 
choir of the Great Meeting, Leicester, I shall give a 
brief account of its contents, and also of the works of 
Green and Boyce. As the anthems of these masters 
could not be well performed without an organ, my 
father prevailed upon the Puritan heads of the congre- 
gation to concede some of their rigid opinions, and to 
allow the use of a bass viol to support the voices in 
the performance of these divine compositions. This 
was the first instrument of its kind introduced into a 
dissenting meeting house, and was, for a time, censured 
as approaching too near the ceremonies of the Church. 

The first anthem. Sing unto Gody* opens with an 
alto solo, in a bright and lofty strain, followed by a 
short pleasing chorus of easy execution. The next 
anthem. Lord, what love have I unto thy law ? for two 
sopranos, is a pensive and beautiful composition. 
Kent, a pupil of Croft, has copied this into his book 
of anthems, nearly note for note — an unwarrantable 

* Sacred Melodies, No. 58. 



72 ANTHEMS. Chap. 18. 

theft. He defended himself by saying that he could 
not write better music to the words. We mil rejoice* 
is a full anthem, written upon a clear stately fugue. 
Lord, thou hast searched me out, and knovm me,\ is 
ingeniously interwoven for three voices. The bass solo, 
Thou art about my path and my bed, is full of grandeur, 
and finely contrasts with the beautiftd strain for a 
feihale voice, Whither shall I go from thy presence ? 
The anthem, for a bass voice. Praise the Lord, my 
soul, is a noble subject. The alto solo. Thou deckest 
thyself with light, is beautifoUy transparent and melo- 
dious. He layeth the beams of his chambers in the 
waters, requires all that weight of voice possessed by 
Lablache to produce the ponderous eifect intended 
by the author. Cry aloud, and shout, inhabitants 
of Zion, accompanied with all the instruments of the 
modern orchestra, transcends everything in our Ian- 
guage. The style of this author is that of imposing 
grandeur, addressed to the majesty of the Supreme 
Being. Had he Kved at the present day, he would 
have been the Beethoven of sacred music. 

Dr. Green 

succeded Croft, and published two volumes of An- 
thems upon the plan of his. master. Handel had just 
arrived in England, and often visited the Organ Loft 

* Sacred Melodies, No. 57. f Sacred Melodies, No. 51. 



ANTHEMS. 73 

of St. Paul's, where Green, then a youth, did the duty. 
The stranger was soUcited to play. When he sat 
down, Green was struck with the tremendous chords 
that thundered from the instrument. Handel's visits 
stimulated Green to incessant practice, and he soon 
became the first organist of his time. This work 
opens with the anthem, Sinp unto the Lord a new 
song* a duo, tunefully sweet, for sopranos. The bass 
solo, The Lord shall go forth in his might, is truly 
majestic. This is followed by a movement, for two 
voices, full of tenderness and exquisite expression. 
A chef ct^Buvre is the anthem, God is our hope and 
strength,^ written originally for five men's voices, now 
increased in beauty by the change to a soprano. 
Indeed, the epithet beautiful will apply to the general 
character of Green's compositions. 

Dr. Boyce 

Followed his master. Green, in all the honourable 
stations held by him. Green had commenced a grand 
work in collecting the MSS of our Chiffch writers, 
which lay scattered in aU the cathedrals of the king- 
dom. This was completed by Boyce. Dr. Arnold 
continued the collection down to his own time. In 
flavour, this work is no better than a second vintage. 
Boyce, like his pi:edecessors, produced two volumes 

* Sacred Melodies, No. 54. f Sacred Melodies, No. 50. 



74 



ANTHEMS. 



Chap. 18. 



of original anthems.' His style — ^not so majestic as 
Croft's, nor so showy as Green's — ^is embued with a 
devotional sentiment peculiarly his own. The first 
volume opens with this clear and inspiring subject : — 




is: 



i 



4 



rs: 



•&- 



■o- 



■&^ 



l~7^ 



We praise Thee O 



iS3 



t 



TV 



s 



^ 



j,0 ^ 



^-el 



^ 



God 



H 



The anthem, If we believe that Jesus died and rose 
offain, is a subject that no previous author had dared 
to touch. Its sublimity cannot be described, nor can 
it be said to have been performed since the time of 
Norris. By the waters of Babylon, we sat doton and 
wept* is a lament of deep feeling, expressed with that 
fullness of heart peculiar to this serious writer. Be 
thou my Judge,\ is of the sanie cast. How firm is the 
melody which falls upon the words, Examine me, 
Lord, and prove me. The exalted style of these 
writers died with them. Not an anthem has appeared 
during the last seventy years that can be put into 
competition with.them. 



* Sacred Melodies, No. 53. f Sacred Melodies, No. 60. 



ODE TO CHARITY. 75 

I cannot quit the subject without alluding to a 
work composed expressly for the anniversary of the 
Leicester Infirmary — an Ode to Charity — ^written by 
Mr. Cradock, of Gumley, and. set to music by Dr. 
Boyce. The duetto, Here shall soft Charity repair* 
and the last chorus, are the only pieces that, have been 
published from the original score, in my possession. 
Wherever the aid of music is enUsted in the cause of 
charity, a more powerful appeal cannot be found than 
is contained in these beautiful and impressive com- 
positions. 



CHAPTER XIX. 



THE GALLANTRY OF SOLDIERS. 



All women are fond of soldiers. They respect 
them as their national protectors. Their military ar- 
dour and manly air are often induced by the passion 
of love. Women know this, and take a deep interest 
in a character that is courageous and courteous. The 
sddier fights with intrepidity, to gain the estimation 
of one he loves ; an emotion that fills every breast, 
from the general down to the lowest in the ranks. 
The mounted cavalier is the lady-killer. His chival- 

* Sacred Melodies, Nos. 137 and 138. 



76 GALLANTRY OF SOLDIERS Chap. 18. 

ric bearing and prancing horse evince a more brave 
and daring spirit, than that of the soldier who fights 
on foot. It was this feeUng which carried the Red- 
cross Knights to the holy land — certainly not the 
lowly spirit of Christianity : it was the Quixotism of 
love and romance. 

During the American war, vast numbers of troops 
passed through our town, on their way to the western 
world. In summer time, they arrived in the evening, 
covered with dust, and set off again in the morning with 
their bright implements of war. The whole population 
was roused on these occasions. Crowds of young girls 
were up by day-break, to join the brave fellows and 
accompany them as they marched out of town, which 
they did for miles before they possibly could part. 
Addison says that women, in their nature, are much 
more gay and joyous than men ; their fibres are more 
delicate, and their animal spirits more light and vola- 
tile. Vivacity is their gift, and beautifully contrasts 
with the gravity of the man. 

It is difficult to conjecture why Leicester never 
rose to a military station. Barracks were built in 
many large towns about us, as Northampton, Not- 
tingham, and York. Yet our lasses were seldom 
treated with the animating sight of these men of war. 
The following effusion is that of a Nottingham girl 
upon the expectation of a regiment of the Guards being 
quartered in that town : — 



r * 



' 



79 




\ 



TRAVELLING. 81 

SONG.— (Page 78.) 
" mother, I am transported, 

To think of the gay comrades ; 
They say, we shall all be courted, 
Kind widows, as well as maids : 
O this, O this, is joyful news, 
As every one, then, indeed may choose. 

" Dear mother, to see them all mounted ! 

It would tickle your heart with joy. 
By me 4^ey shall all be counted, 

Heroical sons of Troy : . 
The bells in the steeple shall ring, 
And all we girls will dance and sing." 

Love, without contradiction, is the deepest passion 
that women feel and express. Other passions will 
scarcely move them, but this is paramount, and con- 
stitutes the charm of their lives. 



CHAPTER XX. 



LACEBY — WIIETCHED ROADS. 



The pleasure of travelling in fine weather, over 
good roads, mounted on a sprightly horse, cannot be 
sufficiently extoUed. In my youth, I frequently went 
journeys of business on horseback ; I never moved so 
fast, or was so pressed for time, that I did not con- 
trive to visit everything in the course of my route 
worth seeing, and always much enjoyed the changing 
scenes of nature. On one occasion, after leaving Hull, 



82 THE RECTOR. Chap. 20. 

I crossed the Humber on my way to the gay Httle 
town of Louth— the principal town in the northern 
part of Lincolnshire. The roads, if they deserved the 
name, were up to the knees in mud, and, in winter 
tinie, only passable on a nimble horse like mine, 
that could skip from one sound place to another. 
Having ridden for some hours, buffeted by wind and 
rain, I took shelter in a snug Uttle inn, at the village 
of Laceby, where I put up for the night. I crept 
into the chimney comer, by the side of a blazing fire, 
and inhaled comfort at every pore. My hostess pre- 
pared me some bones of mutton and nicely-mashed 
potatoes, which, with a glass of grog, made me com- 
pletely happy. At breakfast, next morning, I met 
with Dr. Johnson's prospectus for pubUshing his 
Dictionary, which I read with much pleasure : a sin- 
gular pamphlet to find in such an out-of-the-way 
place. I was about to pursue my journey, when I dis- 
covered that I had unfortimately left behind me my 
ledger of accounts, which was of such importance that 
I must return to recover it, before I could resume my 
trading concerns. My heart sickened at the thought 
of retracing the miserable roads I had passed, and 
while I was considering what to do, in came the par- 
son of the parish to read the newspaper. Pleasure 
sat upon his rosy face, but in mine distress was too 
apparent. After a few words of salutation, I revealed 
to him the dilemma I was in. " Oh ! sir," said he, 
smiling, " I can get you out of this difficulty in a 



r 



CHRISTMAS TIME. 83 

trice. We have a little active fellow here, who knows 
all' the bye-roads, and will fetch your book in half the 
time it cost you in coming here." The words of my 
clerical friend revived me. He instantly sallied forth, 
and presently returned with the herald booted and 
spurred, who darted off upon his mission. After his 
reverence had lighted his pipe, I ventured to express 
the great obUgation I felt, and said, " had I not met 
with you sir, I should have been the most miserable 
fellow alive." " Well, sir," he replied, " I dare say you 
would have done as much for me in your country." 
When the rector had rapped out the ashes of his 
second pipe, he got up saying, " Come, sir, the parson- 
age is hard by, and I beg you will accompany me to 
it. . It being Christmas time, my daughter has a few 
young friends with her. and I hope we can y eeably 
fill up this unexpected pause in your journey." I ac- 
knowledged the compliment with deep submission. 
On seeing me somewhat embarrassed, he sharply said, 
" Come, come, no hesitation," and I walked with him 
to the rectory. On entering, four young ladies were 
busy with their netting, when my friend, in a strong 
voice, said, " Here girls, I have brought this young 
squire from the ale-house, who is doomed to stop for 
the day ; and sooner than he should be moping there 
by himself, I thought you would take compassion, and 
entertain him as your guest." His reverence slammed 
to the door, and left me to my fate. What a situation ! 
How could I bear up against the searching looks of 

F 2 



84 PLEASING COHFANY. Chap. 30. 

four pairs of black and blue eyes ? — doubtless I must 
have appeared a simple fool. I was, however, soon 
reUeved by the young lady of the house asking me 
when I had arrived in Laceby. This broke the awful 
pause, and, in my best manner, I recounted the 
miseries of the previous day ; but, with an assurance that 
I had forgotten all my troubles in falling into such 
dehghtful company. SmUes and blushes ensued. On 
seeing a pianoforte, I ventured to observe, " You are 
fond of music, ladies" ? " O yes," says my hostess, 
" Jane plays divinely, and Rebecca sings charmingly." 
" What a delightful resource is music," said I, " to fill 
up the dull hours of winter." " Indeed it is," said my 
kind hostess, " especially in a place like this — the very 
comer of the world." I was pressed to give them a song, 
and, thinking it mif^t lessen the distance between us, 
as I seemed to have dropped &om the clouds, I sat 
down to the pianoforte, and sang Haydn's Canzonet, 
" My mother bids me hiTid my hair" which seemed 
to touch their little hearts. At this moment, the 
rector returned, and I was requested to sing it again. 
Detecting soibe of the northern brogue in my firiend, 
like Timotheus, I changed my hand to the Scotch air, 
" The lass of Paty's mill." — ^TMs moved the divine to 
a degree of merriment, that drew peals of laughter from 
the fair ones. In the height of my bliss, news came 
that the messenger had returned. I tore myself from 
the blooming girls, not having heard the least inti- 
mation of their names, farther than Julia, Jane, and 



r 



FASHION. 85 

Rebecca, and darted off upon my journey, never to 
meet the sweet creatures again. . 



CHAPTER XXI. 

PAINTED LADIES — POWDEK AND POMATUM. 

The fashions have become greatly simplified since 
I first visited London. The universal mode of ladies 
and gentlemen dressing the hair with powder and 
pomatum, gave a stately and finished appearance to 
an assemblage of persons, that can now scarcely be 
conceived. As the style of dress concealed many 
wrinkles, which creep on with old age, it was not 
wonderful that powder should have been generally 
adopted, even by the lowest ranks, as baldness and 
grey hair could not be readily discovered. The pre-* 
posterous decoration of the head in ladies so much 
exposed their features, that paint became necessary, to 
cover the ravages that time was making. At that 
period, they seldom moved about in carriages. The 
fashion was to meet at Ranelagh and Vauxhall, 
where distinguished persons walked in the evening. 

A lively picture of this age is given by Walpole, 
who says, " I had a card from Lady Caroline Peter- 
sham, to go with her and Miss Ash to Vauxhall. 
When I called, I found they had just laid on the last 
layer of red, and looked as handsome as crimson 



VAUXHALL. Chap, 31. 

Qake them. We marched to om' barge, in 
'as a band of Prench horns.* The moment 
ed at the gardens, we picked up the Mwquis 
by — ^very drunk from Jenny Whims. Lady 
; fetched her brother. Lord Orford; from the 
s, to partake of seven minced chickens, which 
red in a China dish, over a lamp, rattling and 
5 all the while she was cooking — we expecting 
1 to explode and fly about our ears. Our 
!nt drew crowds about us, who remained 
whOe we supped, and did not move, till Harry 
ok up a bumper and drank to all their good 
It was three o'clock in the morning before 
home." 

this wilderness of hghts, the milder beams 
y had httle chance of being seen, without the 
:e of paint. Unsophisticated girls from the 
, with their pale faces, moved among the 
e 80 many ghosts. 

3n the French revolution took place, all these 
ies were destroyed at a blow. Then, every 
an became a crop — the term of the day — and 

pigtails, and pomatum were cast to the winds. 

refused at Oxford to have his hair powdered, 
a considered as disaffected to Church and 



vas written by Handel for parties on 
the Thames. 



THE TEMPLE OP PLEASURE. 87 

The sweet face of woman now once more bloomed 
in nature's pure red and white, and the frivolities 
of the age were justly satirized in the following 
verses : — 

SONG.— (Page 98.) 

" Is it' for a grace, or is it a dislike ? 
While others give the lip you give the cheek ; 
Some take it for a pride in your behaviour, 
But I do rather take it for a favour. 

" Wherefore, to show the kindness of my love, 
I'll leave both lip and cheek to kiss your glove : 
Ask not the cause, but if you'll be acquainted. 
Your glove's perfumed, your lip and cheek are painted." 

Ranelagh. 

Nothing appeared to me so like a dream as my 
visit to the once fashionable place of amusement, 
Ranelagh. It carried me away to the scenes of the 
Arabian Nights. The gardens, in which the Rotunda 
stood, were dark and gloomy, compared to Vauxhall ; 
no doubt, to give effect to that burst of light that 
struck the stranger on entering this temple of pleasure. 
The glare of the running galleries and lofty dome, 
and the dark recesses dimly seen, gave the imagi- 
nation full scope to revel in the regions of fancy. 

The structure was like the terhple of Minerva, in 
Rome, but of much greater magnitude. On the 
ground floor, a cordon of alcoves ran round the outer 



PROMENADE. Chap. 21. 

eachlai^ enough for a party of six. At a con- 
ble height above these, a similar circle formed 
ery, from which you had a fine view of the 
(ay below. In the centre of the area was a com- 
ent railed off, which might be compared to the 
»f a wheel, from which radiated tea, coffee, and 
a deUcacies in all directions. The promenade, 
lay between the centre and the outer circle, 
urpeted, so that no noise arose from the moving 
J company backwards and forwards in opposite 
its. In the upper circle was an orgim and or- 
a, from which you were occasionally entertained 
'ocal and instrumental performances. The fol- 
l ballad was sung with much naivete by a young 
mie . — 

SONG.— (Page 318.) 
" Get you gone, O why do you woo me? 
If yon love me, don't — don't pursue me : 
Let that inclination periah. 
Which I dare no longer cherish. 
My girlish dreams were aU for you. 
Such as, till then, I never knew," 

jhief object of this assembly — Uiis brilliant 
of &shion — was to walk in the cool of the 
ig, dressed in the most elegant style p(»sible, 
J and be seen. The whispering conversation 
d no more noise than so many bees in a hive, 
ropped into silence the moment the music b^an. 
; we departed, three of the king's sons entered. 



THE LEABOWES. 89 

arm-in-arm, and jostled through the crowd. No one 
made way for them, and apparently they enjoyed this 
freedom from restraint. When we got out of the 
vortex, to return home, the sun was just rising. The 
freshness of the morning made me feel as if I had 
been steeped in delirium-r-so bewildered were my 
thoughts. After a sound sleep, my visit to Ranelagh 
seemed to be the first part of a dream from which I 
had just awakened. 



CHAPTER XXII. 



THB L£ASOW£S. 



In returning once from Worcester, through a 
beautiful country, I fell in with a yoimg gentleman, 
who was riding in the same direction as myself. We 
agreed to put up our horses at the pretty village of 
Hales Owen. My companion asked me if I had ever 
seen the Leasowes. I had not. They were near 
at hand, he said, and were well worth seeing. I was 
pleased with the proposition, and, having ordered 
dinner to be ready on our return, we set off. 

The Leasowes comprised the house and grounds of 
the late poet, Shenstone, a fanciftd residence planned 
by himself; but at the time of our visit, fast falling 
into decay. Though bereaved of its charms, sufficient 
yet remained to show how beautiful this villa must 



THEATRE OF FANCY. Chap. 22. 

n when in its pride. There was no one hving 
use, and no access to the grounds but through 
1 the fence. We strolled through winding 
id shady groves, ornamented with statues, 
es, and dripping grottos. Over one of these 
eats the poet had placed the following inscrip- 
ce set to music in a very pleasing way by the 
shed Lord Momington : — 

Here, in cool grot and moBsy cell, 
We rural fays and fairies dwell ; 
Tho' larely seen by mortal eye, 
When the pale moon aaceoding high 
Darts thio' yon limes her quir'ring beams. 
We firisk it, neai the crystal streams. 

' Her beams, reflected from the wave, 
Afibrd the light our revels crave ; 
The turf, with daisies broidered o'er. 
Exceed, we wot, the Parian floor ; 
Nor yet for artfnl strains we call. 
But listen — ^to the waterfall." 

secluded domain contains, in the smallest 
, all the beauties of poetic scenery. Nature 
s charming ; but here, the poet has decked 
in all the blandishments of art. IVom a rock 
a httle impetuous stream, that admirably 
ts part in this theatre of fency. After perso- 
iraterfalls, placid lakes, and tinkling rills, it 
I paradise to flow into the vulgar meadows 
o do the drudgery of turning mill-wheels, mak- 
I, and grinding com, under the ignoble name of 



( 



LORD LYTTLETON. 91 

the river Stour. Turning our attention to the land, 
what feathery woods and glossy slopes enticed you 
along. In sequestered spots, you met with tablets in 
memory of departed friends. One to Lady Lyttleton 
— Shenston^s nearest neighbour — ^written by her hus- 
band, contained these beautiful hues :— 

" Adieu to the village delights, 
Which lately my fancy enjoyed ; 
No longer the country invites, 
For me, all its pleasures are void. 

" Adieu, thou sweet health-breathing mom. 
Thou can'st not my comfort restore ; 
For ever, adieu, my dear vill. 
My Lucy, alas ! is no more." * 

We threaded the long alleys with deUght, through 
which, like telescopes, we looked at the famt prospects 
far beyond. In whatever direction we turned, there 
were pictures for the painter's eye. To describe this 
elysium, Johnson himself might write in vain. It 
was such a paradise as this that Garrick possessed at 
Chiswick, who said to the sage, " to die and leave it, 
made death horrible." My visit, to this lovely retreat 
induced me to put a few placid notes to the following 

|-|-r|Ao - 

SONG.— {Page 118.) 
" To these lone shades where peace delights to dwell. 
My fortune oft permits me to retreat ; 
Here bid the world, with all its cares, farewell, 
And leave its pleasures to the rich and great." 

* For the Music, vide Vol. I., page 18. 



CAMBKIDGE. Chap. 23. 

Ded to dinner at our comfortable inn, and, 
ittle of perry, the champtdgne of the country, 
i off to Birmingham, where we parted. 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

INTO NOBPOLK — CAUBBIDGB — MUSICS 0LLEGE3. 

! year 1789, 1 was sent into Norfolk, to col- 
outstanding moneya in that county. On 
it Cambridge, I put up at Gurfog's Hotel, 

St. John's-gate, and, having no business to 
h^%, as soon as I had seen my horse fed (that 
; first duty of a traveller), I saUied forth 
e colleges, and stroUed about, amazed at the 
ace I beheld. As I passed St. Mary's Church, 
music, and soon found my way into the 
— ^where Dr. Rtaidall, the professor of music, 
rsing Handel's anthem. My heart is inditing 

1 mutter. I was charmed, and could not 
he music had ceased. This was preparatory 
lebration-day on which the king was to go 
id's, to return thanks for his mental re- 
[ saw little more than the exterior of these 

as I had not sufficient boldness to enter any 
i quadrangles. How great was my surprise, 
amt that aU this grandeur was stored with 



NEWMARKET RACES. 93 

learning. I felt the same desire as Prince Laboo, 
when he first saw a school, who expressed a wish that 
he might sit down among the scholars, and do as they 
did. With what an air of dignity the students passed 
me in the streets, in their caps and flowing gowns ! 
The whole scene was imposing, and filled me with ad- 
miration. I returned to the inn for dinner, and ate 
it without knowing what was set before me, so capti- 
vated had I been. However, the biU soon informed 
me, for it amounted to the alarming sum of four 
shillings and eight pence. I remonstrated against the 
charge ; the waiter said he would send his master. 
Mr. Gurfog made his appearance, and addressing me 
as a " freshman," hoped there was nothing wrong in 
the bill. I assured him I was not a " gownsman," and of 
no liigher rank than a commercial traveller, and that 
I had hitherto been charged only a shilling for my 
dinner. Upon showing my saddle-bags, which I had 
hid under the table, he made a thousand apologies, and 
reduced my dinner to a shiUing.* 

On my way to Bury, I fell in with a groom, going 
to Newmarket races ; and, as it was a sight worth 
seeing, I begged to join him. The course was a 
barren heath, and instead of booths and crowds of 
people, I found only a few clusters of spectators, chiefly 
noblemen, who were more intent upon the sport as a 
gambling affair, than in admiration of the beautiful 

* Port wine then was only 2s. a bottle. 



94 GRINDING ORGAN. Chap. 23. 

horses. My companion knew many of the distm- 
guished characters, among whom he pointed out to 
me Charles Fox, in his blue coat and buff waistcoat. 
But for the pleasure of seeing this statesman, I thought 
it a flat, uninteresting sight, and not at all equal to 
our races at Leicester. I then pursued my route to 
Bury, and was much struck with the antiquity of the 
Abbey. As I strolled through the church-yard, I met 
with an epitaph, which I was curious enough to copy : 

" Here lies the body of Jane Kent ; 
Death kick'd up her heels, and away she went." 

I arrived in the evening at Diss, and hearing that 
there was a grinding organ in the church, then a great 
novelty, I hunted up the sexton, and expressed a wish 
to see it. He lit his lanthom, and on our way to 
the church informed me that he was the organist as 
well as sexton. With a very consequential air, he 
began his performance. I was pleased with the com- 
pact and solid effect — more so than with the loose 
style of playing I have heard from some dexterous 
performers. I then observed, " you play nothing but 
psalmody" ! He smiled, and with self-complacency 
said, " I play voluntaries, sir" ! and immediately com- 
menced one, which I applauded. Afterwards I was 
favoured with Handel's Hallehyah Chorus, with which 
he played the congregation out of church. As the 
night was cold, I took him to the inn, and warmed 
his heart with a cup of gingered ale. This he ma- 



r 



ILLUMINATIONS. 95 

naged with as much ease as his performance on the 
organ. At Harleston and Bungay, the steeples were 
being decorated with lamps, up to the very weather- 
cock, for the intended rejoicings for the king's re- 
covery. We arrived at Yarmouth in the evening, 
amidst a blaze of light. The ships in the harbour, 
with lamps hung in the rigging, looked like a constel- 
lation of coloured stars. In the morning, I visited the 
church, and found an imwieldy organ, with a coarse 
bawling voice, probably made in the Low Countries — 
where loudness is. more considered than quahty of 
tone. The Leicestershire Militia were then encamped 
at Lowestoft, and I hired a Yarmouth coach vfith two 
wooden wheels under the body, into which I could 
scarcely squeeze myself, to pay a visit to my friend 
Thomas Buxton, a captain in this regiment, which lay 
there, ready to pounce upon the French, should they 
dare to land. 

In the evening, Mr. Dickinson of Birmingham, and 
Mr. Nott of London, with myself, set off for Norwich. 
Within a short distance of that city, we were stopped 
by two footpads. The road was a deep sand, so that 
our horses' feet could not be heard. Finding three of 
us, the attack was no sooner made than given up, 
when the rascals skulked into the coppice on each side 
of the road. We reported the affair the moment we 
arrived, and found it was no uncommon occurrence to 
be way-laid on that spot. In such sandy parts of the 
road highway robberies were generally committed. — 



96 NORWICH CATHEDRAL. Chap. 23. 

Birstal sands, near Leicester, and Wobum sands, 
were noted places, and the dread of all travellers. 

Norwich Cathedral overpowered me with its gran- 
deur. As I entered, the music was rolling through the 
arches in solemn harmony. I had seen the cathedral 
at Worcester, with which I was powerfully impressed ; 
but here, my sensations were infinitely more sublime. 

On my way to Peterborough, I passed through a 
country obviously stolen from the sea. Here I scraped 
an acquamtance with the organist of the cathedral, 
Mr. Calah, who presented me with a song he had 
just pubhshed. Such was the want of new music at 
that time, that trifles of this sort added to the reputar 
tion of a professor, and gave him distinction. I 
touched the organ, which was some hundred years old ; 
the keys were so worn, that it was like putting your 
fingers into a row of ivory spoons. As to execution 
upon such an instrument, it was impossible. At 
Stamford I put up at the house of Glanville, a clever 
old man of seventy, who married a young wife, a 
greater attraction even than the good cheer the house 
was famous for. Here I dined with a son of Dr. 
WiUis, the king's physician, who Kved in the neigh- 
bourhood, and learnt some particulars of his father's 
management of the king in his madness ; curious, in- 
asmuch as he appUed to parliament for power to use 
coercion with his royal patient. While having my hair 
dressed in the kitchen, a person came in, who, seeing 
a cod-fish lying on the dresser, opened its mouth, and. 



r 



98 



SONG. 



i, i rM' ^hH =- 




Is it fur H STHce' or -is it h disJ 





_ha-vi_ocir But 1 do ra ther take it for m 






fa voiir where- -fore to show 



the kitidii#;ss of 



IH voo r wnere__iorea> snow iiic ii.iiiuui»i» 




a « • V • 




our g'love iKper. Junnja yuitr 




lipti and cheek are paiiited Your gliM: ib pecfumed yoni 





paiiiU*d . 



f^i[i[\ '1 i J 



Xv. 



&: 




THE VENTRILOQUIST. 101 

moving the jaws, apparently made the fish speaki I 
jumped up from the barber's hands in great surprise, 
exclaiming, "You are a ventriloquist." The man 
smiled, and acknowledged the fact. He was then ex- 
hibiting his talent in Stamford. The art Ues in the 
knack of compressing the voice into the chest, so as to 
make the sounds come apparently from a distance. As 
the speaker takes care that the features are perfectly at 
rest, you do not suppose the sound to emanate from 
him, but he directs the attention to the spot from which 
he wishes you to imagine the sound to proceed. In this 
way, the female contralto produces the rich tones of 
the voce di petto, which so powerfully interest us in 
that enchanting voice. 

On entering the churchyard, at Grantham, I was 
gratified on hearing the tones of the organ. To enjoy 
the true effect of this noble instrument, you should 
never be within view of it. I presently made my way 
into the organ loft, where I found a rough fellow, Uke 
a Cyclops, working away, at a cramped extempo- 
raneous fugue. When he concluded, I bowed a nod 
of approbation. He got up, and putting a quid of 
tobacco into his mouth, asked me to sit down and try 
the instrument. This I declined, and pressed him to 
give me another fugue. He was pleased, and instantly 
knocked out a chromatic one, with all the fury of a Poly- 
phemus. I observed it was a fine organ, upon the full 
church scale. He had played it for more than fifty 
years, and said a stranger once came in, as I had done, 

G 



02 HANDEL OR THE DEVIL. Chap. 24. 

'hile he was playing, and seemed pleased. " I got 
p," said the old fellow, "and pressed him to sit 
own, which he did, and made no more ado, but pull- 
ig out all the stops, there came such a peal of 
lunder, I thought the church would have come down, 
nd I swore that he was either Handel or the DevU ! 
le rose, and ran down stairs. I quickly followed, and 
K)ked below his coat-laps for his tail, to be convinced. 
t proved to be the old German, who popped into his 
arriage, which was waiting for him at the gate, and in 
Q instant was out of sight." This was the last inci- 
ent of my journey. I now turned my horse's head 
jwards home. With what pleasure, on a rising 
round, did I first see the steeples of my native town, 
ilded by the rays of the parting sun ; and how did 
ly heart throb as the picture neared upon me. The 
ery thought that in one short hour I should return to 
lose who would receive me with affection, after my 
■andering, was a sensation more sweet than can be 
escribed. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 



THE CHASE, AMD BBADOATE. 



The rivers Wreak and Soar, divide our county into 
qual parts, the banks of which are edged with car- 
eted meadows. On the east, the gently swelling 



FOX HrNTING. 103 

hills that rise into Rutlandshire, are dotted over with 
pleasant villages. Over this tract of smooth turf, 
checkered, as it is, with thick hedgerows, the Leices- 
tershire fox-hunters gallop for twenty miles without a 
stop. The passion for hunting is unbounded. More 
than two hundred gentlemen, clad in scarlet, are some- 
times seen rivaUing each other in feats of daring 
horsemanship, at a pace that none but madmen would 
dare to ride. This county has ever been famous for 
the chase, in which the clergy in olden time would take 
the lead. They were privileged to kill game on 
sounding a horn, and no one enjoyed the sport more 
than the Abbot of Leicester. The following is one of 
their songs :— 

SONG.— (Page 180.) 

The bugle horn the Margrave sounds, 

Halloo, halloo, halloo ; 
The neighing steed, he forward bounds, 

The yelping pack pursue. 
0*er hill and dale, away they fly, 

See, see ! the game's in view ; 
And echoes sweet return the cry, 

Halloo, halloo, halloo. 

Bradgate. 

On the western side of the county the features are 
of a bolder cast. As we approach the domain of 
Chamwood Forest, which may be called the Tyrol of 
Leicestershire, the elevations of Bradgate, Bardon, and 

g2 ' 



104 BRADGATE. Chap. 24. 

Woodhouse come into view. On entering the ancient 
park of Bradgate, the eye catches the ruined mansion 
of the unfortunate Lady Jane Grey. This retired spot, 
so full of romance, has great charms for pleasure par- 
ties in summer time. Every vehicle and char-a-banc 
is loaded with youthful fair ones, and attentive beaux ; 
not forgetting the well-stored baskets 'for the day's re- 
past. Arrived at the ruined hall, the camp is formed, 
under the shade of the wide-spreading oaks, and on 
the glossy turf the pic nic feast is laid. When every- 
thing is set in order, the young and gay moimt the 
hill to pay a visit to the summer-house, called " Old 
John," which commands the out-stretched prospect 
there ! The wood nymphs clamber up the rugged 
steep. The tangled fern baffles their eager steps — 
driving them to the narrow path of the wild deer, 
where only two can walk abreast. Thus cast into 
loving pairs, soft emotions soon invade the palpitating 
heart. I remember once, I watched the slow step of 
a worthy friend of mine, as he walked by the side of 

the sprightly Jane , pressing his suit, with 

a diffident heart. Alas ! he had little chance in the 
lottery of love. Her eye was placed upon one far less 
worthy, but whose outward mien and careless air en- 
slaved her heart : she pursued a- phantom, and slighted 
the best of men. I was grieved for him. The follow- 
ing is a transcript of his feelings : — 



UNREQUITED LOVE. 105 

SONG.— (Page 138.) 
If to love, she could not incline, 

I told her I'd die in an hour : 
To die says she — tis thine. 

But to love ! is not in my power. 

I asked her the reason why, 

She could not me approve ; 
She said it was a task too hard. 

To give any reason for love. 

Thus, in climbing the hill of life, looking for the 
summit of our wishes, what dire disappointment 
often comes ! — On achieving the hiQ top, lo ! 
what a glorious sight is unfurled! what a picture 
hangs before the deUghted eyes ! In the near 
ground just beneath, lies Beaumanor, buried in cluster- 
ing trees. Far on the left, wrapped up in smoke, 
Derby is but dimly seen, while Nottingham gleams in 
the bright sunshine. As the eye wanders to the verge 
of the horizon, where earth and sky unite, lo ! Lincoln 
Minster stands, like a ghostly fabric in another world. 
Turn where you will, what a radiant orb of life and 
light appears. Hark ! from the vale below, the bugle 
sounds, and echoes leap from wood to wood, hke un- 
seen spirits. Down the dizzy steep the bounding 
nymphs and corydons dart Uke fawns to their wanted 
groves. Now reclining on the grass, how pleasant to 
partake of the sylvan feast, and reviving glass, when 
music fills the grove — arousing the hstening herds, who 
draw near to enjoy the vocal sounds. Once more the 



LORD CHESTERFIELD. Chap. 35. 

height is mounted to bid adieu to nature's 
re. Alas ! how changed is now the scene. As 
un goes down behind yon western hill, the mellow 
dies away, and the solemn hues of night draw on, 
ing us it is time to depart. The carrif^es 
bted, we reluctantly leave the breezy hill to return 
e close and smoky town. 



CHAPTER XXV. 

BAKTLBUAN — HARBISON — KNITV ETT — EE A TOBE X. 

n the summer time, these four sons of harmony 
to visit Lord Chesterfield, at Bradby,.in Stafford- 
. Each had a hght boat, easOy carried from one 
ige to another, and, in this way, they navigated 
iselves from the Thames, through canals and 
B to Bujton-upon-Trent, near to his Lordship's 
rion. They were not only sons of harmony, but 
of the angle — disciples of old Isaac Walton. On 
)anks of the Trent they had a house where their 
3 and fishing tackle were lodged, and always ready 
their favourite sport. Lord Chesterfield was a 
t lover of music, and, with King Geoi^e IIL, 
a director of the ancient concerts, in which the 
:s of these gentlemen received the plaudits of 
monarch. When the season of music closed 
own, his Lordship invited them, Uke so many 



SONS OF HARMONY. 107 

school boys, to spend the holidays with him at Bradby, 
during which (except now and then,) music was to be 
totally abandoned. Out-door amusements, such as 
cricket, quoits, and trap-ball were their delight, not 
forgetting the silent angle. These occupied the day, . 
till the dinner-bell rang, when our devotees to Apollo 
and Bacchus soon convinced his Lordship how 
well they could also play their part in the salle-a- 
manger. Under no restraint, the delights of the 
evening surpassed the sports of the day. If they 
sang, it was for their own amusement, giving way 
to saUies of mirth and humour, like a set of wild 
creatures, compared with their staid and cautious 
demeanour in town. 

The next visit was to Sir Charles Hudson,* at 
Wanlip, where they met with similar indulgence. , Miss 
Greatorex, then living in Leicester, used to avail herself 
of such valuable aid at her annual concert. This took 
place in the assize week, and was fully attended by the 
county families. As vocalists, they were the most per- 
fect set of EngUsh singers that ever joined their voices 
together. Bartleman, for tone and expression, has 
never been approached.' His enunciation was bold 
and intrepid, having all the force of elocution, added»to 
the power of song. Hark ! my Daridcar^ were ccdVd 
below, and the animated strain of Ludndas Eyes, were 
fine exhibitions of his rhetorical powers. It may be 

* Vide vol. II., p. 526, 641. 



lOS ST. martin's organ. Chap. 25. 

said the music of Purcel died with him. The vocfd 
concerts in London were estabUshed by this party ; 
and, after they had smig the classical glees thread- 
bare, they introduced, as a novelty, a mawldsh sort of 
composition — ^ballads, harmonised for four voices — ^to 
which they improperly gave the name of glees. These 
they brought down with them in MS. to Leicester, 
and, being pretty well known as songs, were much 
applauded. The following I recollect : — " O, Nanny, 
wilt thou gang with me ?" — " Shepherds, I have lost 
my love." — "My love is like a red, red rose." — 
" Fair Ellen like a lily grew." 

As a song, Nanny is beailtifully expressive, both 
in words and music ; but as a glee, it becomes absurd 
and ridiculous. In answer to the solicitation, Nanny 
might reply, " 'Tis sufficient I gan^ with one of you — 
only let me choose whom I like best." 

One morning's entertainment, was a visit to St. 
Martin's organ, to hear Greatorex perform upon that 
noble instrument. He excelled in playing Handel's 
choruses, with a fulness and weight of tone never 
heard from any other hand : his compact execution 
was like Doric Architecture, massive and grand ! 
These gifted spirits rusticated with us every year ; and 
in their evening parties, I was enlisted to take a part 
in the madrigals, and as I could sing at sight, a praise 
was accorded to me, which I did not expect. One 
afternoon I walked with them to some grounds of Mr. 
Heyrick's, to have a game at quoits, in which I was 



WOODBRIDGE. 109 

not SO ready to join as in their music. They entered 
into it with all the aniiiation of a set of schoolboys. 
On our way, I mentioned to Mr. Greatorex that I had 
just received, from Hamburgh, a copy of Haydn's 
Creation, and begged his opinion of it. " Why, sir," 
he rephed, " I think it never will be much performed ; 
it is so difficult, and its hghtness of style will never 
suit the Enghsh taste." 



CHAPTER XXVL 



WOODBEIDGE. 



My friend, of St. John's College, Cambridge, was a 
facetious, true-hearted fellow, under a silent and grave 
demeanour. His genius lay in mathematical learning ; 
and when he paid us a visit at Leicester, his company 
was sought as a distinguished scholar. He was com- 
pletely wrapped up in the studies of Professor Waxing, 
and the philosopher, Billy Parish, as he was called, who 
were his tutors. A great trouble to him was his ab- 
sence of mind, which frequently led him into many 
laughable mistakes : he seemed to have no room in his 
thoughts, except for algebra and conic sections. 

Woodbridge was a good-looking, well-made ba- 
chelor, and our ladies uniformly set their caps, at him : 



110 CAUGHT IN LOVE. Chap. 26. 

but wagers were laid that he never would marry. 
Vain were their endeavours to draw him into the net 
of matrimony. The only pilgrimage he ever made 
was to Market Bosworth, the birth-place of Thomas 
Simpson, Fellow of the Royal Society. In these soli- 
tary rambles he pondered upon the theorems of Mac- 
laurin and Emerson. The latter he admired for the 
blunt simpUcity of his manners, and was fond of imi- 
tating him. The loquacity of our fair ones nearly 
worried him to death ; but there was one silent maiden, 
whose language lay in her soft blue eyes, that miracu- 
lously melted his mathematical heart. With all his 
philosophy he could not withstand the spell ; he sur- 
rendered, and became a married man. The change in 
his nature was as remarkable as it was sudden. Like 
the chrysalis, he passed into another state of existence ; 
and, like a butterfly, flitted through the evening 
of life, full of sunshine and pleasure. The following 
extract from an old poet, will express the power of 
love upon his obdurate heart : — 



SONG.— (Page 158.) 

" What a dull fool was I, 
To think so gross a lie, 
As that I ever was in love before : 

" I have, perhaps, known one or two, 
With whom I was content to be, 
At what they call keeping company. 



UK. 



MANUFACTURES. Ill 



" But, after all they could say, 
i I still could be with more : 



Their absence ne'er made me shed a tear. 

" And, I can truly swear. 
That till my eyes first gazed on you, 
I ne'er beheld the maid I could adore !" 



CHAPTER XXVII. 



MANUFACTUBES. 



In the reign of Charles the Pirst, there were few 
manufactures in the country. Our silks and brocades 
came from Florence and Genoa ; the ladies' mantles 
and dresses from Mantua ; the millinery from Milan ; 
the muslins from India ; and the chintz and nankeen 
from China. In om' humid cUmate, nature has taken 
care of us, by providing the richest pastures for our 
long-wooUed sheep, from which suitable clothing is 
made to defend us from the weather. A century ago 
cotton garments were scarcely known. All ranks 
were clad in woollens ; the females in a worsted stuff 
called Tammy, originally made at Tamworth, from 
which place it took its name. When the farmers sold 
their wool, they reserved the black fleeces for their 
daughters to spin, and to which was added a thread of 
linen, forming a mixed fabric, which, from the mate- 
rial it was made of, got the name of linsey-woolsey. 



i 



112 SPINNING GIRLS. Chap. 27. 

Of this the farmers' coats were made ; and at fair times 
this grizzly uniform presented a curious appearance. 
Then, every stocking-maker had his frame at home, 
and his wife and daughters had their spinning wheels. 
Scattered through the county, these artizans in sum- 
mer left their frames and wheels to assist in getting 
in the harvest, after which they returned to their usual 
employ, and thus had constant work throughout the 
year. As an old manufacturer, I may mention that 
for the first month after harvest, the work was always 
worse done than at any other time, owing to the harden- 
ing of the hands in the harvest work. A flatness of 
trade was never known. Surplus goods were laid by to 
meet the seasons as they came round. The population 
of Leicester at that time was not more than ten thou- 
sand. Situated in the centre of an agricultural dis- 
trict, provisions were cheap, which enabled the steady 
and industrious to lead easy and comfortable lives. It 
was a pretty sight in the villages, to see a cluster of 
girls spinning under the shade of the walnut trees, 
combining with their love-songs the whizzing of their 
wheels, and forming an accompaniment to their artless 
melody. 

SONG.— (Page 157). 

" As I sat at my spinning wheel, 
A bonny lad came passing by : 
I ken'd him round, and I liked him weel, 

Good faith ! he had a bonny eye. • 

My heart now panting 'gan to feel, 
But stDl I turned my spinning wheel. 



MR. BAZELEY. 113 

• " My milk-white hand he did extol, 

And praised my fingers long and small ; 

And said there was no lady fair. 
That ever could with me compare. 

To kiss my hand he down did kneel, 
But still I turned my spinning wheel." 

These scenes have passed away. Now the young 
are too early pent up in spinning mills, amidst stunning 
noise, instead of breathing the free invigorating air. 
Arkwright's invention has changed the whole frame of 
society, by its cheap and superior mode of spinning. 
It has swept away the domestic industry of the eastern 
part of the world, which, from the earliest time, had 
been carried on by the distaff. When I was in Paris, 
in 1802, Denon showed me some spun cotton, taken 
out of a mununy, many thousand years old. From an 
ingenious lecture, given by Mr. Bazeley, in Manchester, 
I copy the following particulars : — " Herodotus, who 
travelled in India, says, * In these countries there are 
trees which bear vegetable wool, with which the people 
clothe themselves.' The spread of cotton clothing did 
hot take place till the conquest of Mahomed, five hun- 
dred years after Christ. Such was the beauty of these 
Indian textures, that they were denominated wehs of 
woven wind. Marco Polo says, the skin could be seen 
through them, and when a man put them on he ap- 
peared quite naked. These exquisite fabrics, called 
muslin, spun and woven by the dehcate fingers of 
eastern females, were forbidden to be exported, and 



114 ARKWRIGHT. Chap. 27. 

all were sent to the Seraglio of the Great Mogul. The 
first mention of cotton clothing being introduced into 
England is by the poet Chaucer, who clothes his knight 
in fustian, then a costly article. Manchester, 600 
years, ago, was famous for weaving linen cloth, the 
thread for which they procured from Ireland ; and on 
the introduction of vegetable wool from Smyrna, it 
was spun by the hand into cotton yam, but of such 
an inferior nature, that the clothes made from it were 
used only as hnings. We come now to the great 
event. A hairdresser discovers a mode of spinning 
cotton by machinery, so vast and with such rapidity, 
that a thousand threads can be spun in less time 
than one formerly by hand, and what the operator 
laboured to perform, he now only directs." 

In the year 1780, I assisted in knocking to pieces 
for firewood Hargreaves' spinning jennies (which Mr. 
Coltman introduced into Leicester), in consequence of 
their being superseded by Arkwright's invention. 
Calicoes at this time were imported from China, and 
were taxed with a high duty as a protection to our 
Lancashire weavers; but the very superior material 
from Arkwright's machine being prefened by the 
public, the clothiers induced Parliament to lay the 
same impost upon the Manchester articles as they had 
done upon the Indian goods, as a protection to their 
trade. Such was the improvement that the mills 
could not be built fast enough to supply the weavers 
with thread. When the same invention was intro^ 



MOB AT LEICESTER. 115 

duced into Leicester for the spinning of sheep's wool, 
it was decried by the authorities, and the machinery 
destroyed by the mob. But the invention was hailed 
as a boon by the towns of Nottingham, Cuckney, 
Bristol, Warwick, Northampton, Bedworth, &c., on 
which places we were wholly dependent for worsted for 
our stocking-makers. Next to the inventions in spin- 
ning, we may speak of the improvements in printing 
the calico. It is by the wonder-working cylinder that 
the most beautiful patterns are printed in eight to 
twelve colours at the same moment ; and that one is 
enabled to perform the work which many hundreds 
might not be able to perform without it. It was in 
this elegant department of the manufacture that Mr. 
Cobden first distinguished himself as a man of the 
highest taste and ingenuity. 

Though we have conferred the blessings of cheap 
clothing upon all the nations of the earth, this very 
cheapness has deprived the poor famihes of their 
homespun woollens, which are so much better suited 
to our variable climate. The general use of cotton 
cloth, from its great cheapness, has been followed by 
a dire calamity : that of exposing poor children to be 
burnt to death. They are generally clad in a loose 
cotton pinafore, which costs but a trifle, and when 
crowding round a fire, this light material is wafted into 
the flames by the draught from the opening of a door, 
and the little creature, in too many instances, is burnt 
to death. It is supposed that not less than three 



116 JOHN ALLEN AND MRS. GRAY. Chap. 28. 

thousand children lose their lives in this way every 
year. Formerly, when clad in woollen stuffs, such ac- 
cidents were unknown. So it is, that the greatest 
good is scarcely ever without its attendant evil. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 



JOHN ALLEN AND PHCEBE GBAT. 



John AUen, a cool, calculating Scotchman, came 
amongst us to practise medicine. His demure and 
staid appearance won for him general respect. He 
was a tall, bony man, with sandy hair ; without a par- 
ticle of poetry in his veins. Punctual, cautious, and 
careful as he was, he never failed to have an eye to 
the main chance. He lodged at Mrs. Gray's, the con- 
fectioner, who had a sprightly daughter, with hly 
hands and crimson cheeks, whose lips were sweeter 
than the loUypops in her mother's shop. Mrs. Gray's 
manners were of the humble sort ; but her daughter, 
Phoebe, was pretty and engaging in whatever she did. 
Allen, in the height of his generosity, would often 
tempt Miss Phoebe with some of her mother's " white- 
hearts" ; but she was not to be won in that sweet 
way : her heart was set upon a pink silk in the mer- 
cer's window, next door, which she liked better than 
her mother's commodities. The hint was too broad 
for the keen Scotchman to mistake. It quite stag- 



118 



SONG. 



00 L C C 

c 

LCCATO 




To . thtfse . . . Itjne 



shades . . . wher^ 




>. ' 




pence de Jig-hts to . dwtll . 






fc^ 



119 



letnw 



^Siai=H= 







to tlu- 





..'iy 



•■ -J • 



A SCOTCHMAN IN LOVE. 121 

gered him. Her raven locks and jet black eyes were 
too much for Allen to withstand ; and, on the next 
Smiday, Miss Phoebe was arrayed in the pink slip, 
and looked like a new-blown rose. 

Allen's gravity became much disturbed, and in 
addressing his landlady, he said, " Meestress Gray, 
ye have a pratty business here, and ye maun have 
scraped a Uttle siller together. Ye have also a canny 
doater." 

Mrs. Gray: "Ah! Doctor," she is a little for- 
ward thing, who takes great liberty with you ; I'd 
have you snub her." , 

Doctor : " Weel, Y(ee\, Meestress Gray, that's na' 
offence to me ; but, as I was just saying, ye must ha' 
saved a fifty-pund, or so." 

Mrs. Gray : " Oh ! lawftd heart, Doctor ; a poor 
widow like me cannot have much money." 

Doctor : " There's na' getting through the world 
without a little siller, Mrs. Gray : I was thinking 
about your doater." 

Mrs. Gray : " Ah ! Sir, she's a little expensive 
thing : she runs away with all I can get." 

Doctor: "I was thinking about Phoebe, if ye'd 
pairt wi' her." 

Mrs. Gray : " Part with her. Sir ; for what ?" 

Doctor : " To me, Meestress Gray." 

Mrs. Gray : " Aye, Doctor, but she's so young." 

Doctor : " Weel, weel, Meestress Gray, ther's na' 
much objeection to that." 

H 



122 MISS PH(£BE. €1iap. 28. 

Mrs. Gray : " For sure, Doctor, you are the best 
judge on such matters." 

Doctor: "Then, as I was saying, ye have twa 
shop windows, and if Phcebe should become Mr». 
Allen, I could set my gallipots in the other window, 
and we would, in that case, drop all talk about the 
siller." 

Phoebe soon found what* power she had over 
the Doctor's heart ; and had only to wait for her 
own consent to become Mrs. Allen. Her impatience 
for the nuptial dress, however, was too evident ; but 
the Doctor's prudence was not to be overcome. My 
friend had a taste for music, and restrained the 
eagerness of the fair one for a time by singing the 
following song, in which she joined in the last 
verse : — 

SONG.— (Page 177.) 

" Prithee, Poebe, not so fast. 
Let's na' nm and wed in haste ; 
WeVe a thousand things to do, 
Tou must fly, and I pursue. 



cc 



You must frown, and I must sigh ; 
I entreat, and you deny ; 
Stay ! if I am never cross'd. 
Half the pleasure will be lost. 



"Be, or seem to be, sincere ; 
Give me reason to despair ; 
Fondness will my wishes cloy. 
Make me careless of my joy. 



EVENING walk: 123 

DUO. 
" Lovers may, of course, complain 
Of their trouble and their pain ; 
But, if pain and trouble cease, 
Love without it will ne'er please." 



CHAPTER XXIX. 

THE EVENING WALK. 

What is more fielightful than a walk into the 
fields on a summer's evening, when the soft-dropping 
shower has allayed the sultry heat of the day ? How 
refreshing the cool breeze, that wafts the scent of 
meadow-flowers across your path ! While sauntering 
by the wood-side or sUver stream, with no desire to 
hook or even disturb its playful tenants, or to see 
the wood-pigeon bleed, let us luxuriate in the smiles 
of nature. On every side what cheering sounds ! 
— ^the lowing cattle, the throstle on the tree, the far- 
off whetting scythe. What music this ! compared to 
the duU whirl of the modem factory-mill, stupifying 
the youthful brain. What weary sameness is imposed 
on the imprisoned elves, who sigh to taste the sweet 

refreshing air. ' ... 

Great as this change is from village life, as it used 

to be, it is not without its enjoyments. Trade brings 

with it domestic comforts and mental pleasures. The 

spread of books and schools, lays open all the avenues 

h2 



!4 PROGRESS OP SCIENCE. Chap. 29. 

I knowledge, and nothing is more striking at the pre- 
nt day, than the rapid development of enquiring 
inds, among the lower orders. From this class many 
mpUfications in our machinery have sprung. 

The sciences of mechanics and chemistry, furnish 
imitable objects of research. The field is of vast ex- 
nt, especially in our manu&ctories, in which the 
jwly-discovered laws of nature are wonderftJly ap- 
lied. The hydrostatic bellows, which was considered 
ttle more than a toy when I was. a lad, has, enabled 
le engineer to carry the tubular bridge, weighing two 
lousand tons, over an arm of the sea. Our immense 
)inning mills so completely absorb the time and at- 
ntion of the masses in the large towns, that every 
iinday the artificers, after an early morning service, 
ight to be driven into the fields to recruit their 
salth. In the evening the government should supply 
le finest music in our churches, where the soul may 
e elevated in the solemn service of thanksgiving for 
le blessings we enjoy. This would refine and raise 
le taste of the people, and get rid of much evil and 
lisery. 



THE WORKING MAN'S SONG.— (Page 197.) 

" The morning of our rest is come, 
The Bnn is shining clear ; 
I see it on the steeple top, 
Put on your shawl, my dear. 



LADY NORRIS. 12^5 

" And let us leave the smoky town, 
The dense and stagnant lane ; 
And take our children by the hand, 
To see the fields again. 

" I've pined for air, the live-long week, 
For the smell of the new mown hay ; 
Let's have a pleasant country walk, 
On this sunny. Sabbath day. 

" Put on your shawl, and let us go, 
I need the air and sun ; 
We'll sit together on the grass, 
To see the children run. 

" We'll watch them gathering buttercups. 
Or cowslips in the dell ; 
Or listen to the cheerftd sound 
Of the far-off village bell. 



ct 



For one day let our children sport. 
And feel their limbs their own ; 

For one day let us quite forget 
The grief that we have known." 



CHAPTER XXX. 



LADY NOKEIS. 



In the northern part of Lincohishire, not two 
miles from the sea, I had once to cross a trackless 
moor late on a winter's evening — ^not a house or tree 
was in view, nor did I meet with any Uving creature 
till I came up to some half-starved cattle, when it oc- 



126 REWARD FOR RIGHT CONDUCT. Chap. 30. 

cirrred to me that, on entering the common, I had left 
the gate open. The cattle might stray, I thought, 
and cause much trouble to the owners. I deter- 
mined to return (though I had come nearly a mile) 
and shut the gate. It was well I did so, for I found 
a man had been haUooing me back, as I had taken 
the wrong turn, which would have led me far away, 
and, probably, I should have been benighted. When 
put into the right road, I considered this incident as 
a pointed reward for my good intentions, and, I may 
say, it ruled my conduct in after-life. A storm 
coming on I looked round for any habitable place into 
which I could creep, rather thg,n hazard any more 
mistakes in such a desolate country. I found shelter 
in a lone public house, kept by widow Brown, the 
resort of a savage set of boors, employed in the fens, 
called " dyke cutters." I felt rather uncomfortable 
amongst such a rough sfet, as it was possible they 
might be disposed to cut my throat. Two of the 
most impertinent marched into my room and volun- 
teered their company, as I was a stranger. For- 
tunately, an old traveller was shortly after driven in 
by the storm, and claimed quarters for the night. 
This put me greatly at my ease, and my visitors took 
themselves away. Our first object was supper, which 
the hostess cooked in the room where we sat. With 
some famous Hollands gin, smuggled on the coast, we 
were made happy, while the storm was furiously 
raging without. When these unpleasant gentry had 



WILDS OP SCOTLAND. 127 

retired, I much enjoyed the company of my travelling 
friend, who entertained me with his adventures, and 
some interesting tales. One, in particular, he related 
of Lady Norris, whose nanje he never repeated but 
with a musical crescendo, that not a little alarmed 
me, my imagination having been much excited by the 
" dyke cutters." — ^It was as follows : — 

" In the wilds of Scotland there stood a lonely 
castle belonging to Lady Norris, who lived in the 
eastern wing, the only part that was habitable. Its 
situation was out of the world — ^buried in dark pine 
forests. The Lady was rich, and attended by a few ' 
old servants. In these baronial halls you often pass 
through a suite of rooms to the most remote one in the 
edifice. It was here that Lady Norris slept. — On 
kneeling down to prayers, she espied the hob-nailed 
shoes of a man under the bed. Undismayed, she 
went on with her prayer, rose, and took oflP her 
jewels and laid them on her toilette, got into bed and 
feigned sleep. For a whUe; nothing stirred. After 
a time the robber stepped out and secured the booty ; 
but not finding her purse he went to the bed- side and 
whispered in her ear, ' Lady Norris ! Lady Norris ! ' 
Not stirring, he spoke in a louder tone, 'Lady 
Norris!' Still appearing too dead asleep to be 
awakened, he shouted, * Lady Norris !' so as to make 
the castle ring with the loudness of his voice. The 
echoes alarmed the villain, and he made ofiP with the 
jewels. As he retreated through the rooms, she 



128 LIONEL. Chap. 31. 

nimbly got out of bed, and, stepping with the light- 
ness of a doe, locked the furthermost door after him, 
and all the others as she fled back to her chamber, 
and violently rang the bell, to awake the servants. 
She heard the imprecations of the miscreant, as he was 
bursting through the doors she had locked, — ^returning 
to murder her ; and just as he was crawUng through 
the panel of the last, the villain was secured, and the 
lady was saved from death." 



CHAPTER XXXI. 



LIONEL AND LOUISA. 



I met at dancing school the all-engaging and 
beautiful Louisa — ^her native grace shone through that 
grave demeanoiu* in which her rehgious education had 
clothed her. Her highly accomphshed mamma had 
given a refinement to her manners, usually attained 
only by mixing with the polite world. She showed 
genius in drawing and poetry, but, from the secluded 
habits of the family, had never been brought into 
contact with fashionable life. Some subscription 
concerts were set on foot in Leicester, and, being a 
novelty, were warmly countenanced, the avowed object 
being music* 

* Card and dancing assemblies were adyertised every foriniglit 
tlirougliout half the year, to which the Dissenters did not subscribe. 



APOLLO. 129 

The serious Dissenting families, for the first time, 
joined in the amusement, though the entertain- 
ment was to end with a ball. My father prevailed 
upon the parents of Miss Louisa to allow her to' 
make her entre in pubhc on this occasion, with her 

friend Miss R . Our recluse, like a nun released 

from the cloister, was elated with the novelty of the 
scene, in which she found herself. A hundred 
whispers ran round the room, " Who is she ? How 
very beautiful ! " The concert being over, all the seats 
had to be removed, to provide a space for dancing. 
Our steward, Lionel — a high-bom gentleman of engag- 
ing manners — ^was denominated the Apollo of our 
town. Young men of fashion then vied with each 
other in their taste for dress. Fine figured men, 
handsomely dressed, gave a gaiety to an assembly 
that we have no notion of at this day : except by the 
clergy, a black coat was never worn I remember 
well the coat of the gay Lionel was a Ught grey mix- 
ture, approaching to white, with a black silk collar 
and silver cord buttons; black satin small clothes, 
with sky-blue ribbed silk stockings, that showed a 
handso'me leg. At the knee-band was a small diamond 
buckle, and a more large and costly one ornamented the 
toe of the shoe. Rich lace ruffles set oflF the hand, 
and a cocked hat surmounted a head of hair dressed 
in the height of the French fashion. Our ApoUo claimed 
the hand of the lady to dance. We had not then, 
either waltzes, quadrilles, or galopades. The only 



^ 



130 MARS AND CASSIOPEA. Chap. 31. 

variety from the country dance was the court minuet, 
an elegant movement now lost and forgotten. As 
our debutante was led to the top of the dance^ covered 
with blushes, her joyous spirit forsook her ; but re- 
covering from her timidity, her dark eyelashes no 
longer concealed those beams that flashed on the 
admiring throng. 

The next morning our cavalier paid his devoirs 
to the family. His fine person and courteous grace 
instantly won for him the noistress of his heart, and he 
was received as a suitor. Though hitherto distant as 
Mars from Cassiopea, these stars were now drawn 
into the same orbit, and in a few weeks their union 
was completed. For a season, music, love, and every 
earthly delight, reigned uncontrolled in the temple 
of pleasure. Alas ! the sunny beams of the morning 
began to fade, and the happiness that seemed more 
than mortal, gradually sank into gloom and despair. 
The charm soon wore away and dissolved into indif- 
ference and neglect, Mowed by distaste, and ending 
in mutual hate and separation. 

I witnessed this scene of promised joy, and, with 
others, deplored the disastrous result of this sudden 
impassioned love. 

SONG.— (Page 238). 
" With humble vows men first begin, 
Stealing, unseen, into the heart ; 
But by possession settled in, 
They quickly act another part. 



GHOSTS. 131 



For beads and bawbles we resign, 
As Indians do their golden store ; 
Discover nature's richest mine, 
And yet the tyrants will have more. 

Be wise, be wise, and do not try 
How he can court, or you be won ; 
For love is but discovery, 
When that is made — ^the pleasure's done. 



>9 



CHAPTER XXXII, 



GHOSTS. 



When my father and mother were on a visit in the 
country, old Mary, onr servant, and myself, were left 
to keep house. She entertained me in the evening 
with many tales, among which were some ghost-stories 
that excited my imagination ; but, as I wa. then a bit 
of a philosopher (though no more than ten years old), 
I pretended not to believe in them. In the dead of 
the night, I heard, as I thought, some one playing on 
the harpsichord. I sat up in bed and heard the tink- 
ling very plain. As there was no one in the house 
but our two selves, surely said I, if there are such 
things as ghosts, this must be one. I got out of bed 



/» 



132 GHOSTS — MUSIC. Chap. 32. 

and crept softy to the head of the stairs and heard 
the following sounds : — 




It then ceased. I waited some time before it began 
again. As I descended it stopped, and I stopped to 
collect myself. The night was stormy, and the wind 
made a dreadful howling. The moon was in the full, 
occasionally covered with dark clouds. When I 
arrived at the music-room door, it was partly open. 
I thought I would first put my head in, and have a 
peep. At that moment the moon shot a bright beam 
through the room, and I saw — ^nothing ! I screwed 
up my courage, and determined to approach the harp- 
sichord, when lo ! on lifting up the lid, I beheld our 
neighbour's kitten who had crept in at the window, 
and ensconced herseK on the keys, where she had been 
carelessly shut up. The succession of thirds which 
I heard was produced by the animal stepping regu- 
larly along the keys. In the morning I told my 
adventure, and the old ninny nearly dropped at my 
description ; but when it turned out to be nothing 
more than httle puss, she burst out into a courageous 
fit of laughter. 

Cats. 
The last story brings to my recollection an extra- 
ordinary sight of a hundred of these domestic tigers 



r 



CATS. 133 

being whistled to supper at Barclay and Perkins's 
brewery. Like their dray horses, the cats are of the 
elephantine breed. As soon as the workpeople are 
dismissed, these animals spread themselves over the 
vast territory, lying in wait for the shoals of rats and 
mice which are lured by their love of malt. Were it 
not for this tiger poKce the loss would be some thou- 
sand pounds a-year to the proprietors. The most 
dahity food vrill not entice them away from their sport 
and prey. They prefer a rat caught by their own 
prowess to the greatest delicacy set before them. 
Furious and cruel as cats naturally are, with kind 
usage they are easily domesticated. When kittens, 
they are elegant and amusing in all their graceful 
motions. Rich, the proprietor of Drury-lane Theatre, 
was more fond of his cats than of all the fascinating 
actresses he had on the stage. Mrs. Woffington 
says, " On being admitted to this master of the stage, 
I found him loUing on a sofa, with a play-book in 
his left hand and a china cup in the other, sipping tea. 
Around and about him were seven-and-twenty cats, 
of different sizes, at play ; some staring him in the 
face, some eating toast out of his mouth, some licking 
milk out of a cup, some frisking, others demurely 
seated on the floor, others perched on his shoulders, 
arms, and knees, and even on his head. So was this 
magician of pantomimes crowned with a grimalkin, 
instead of being graced with a circlet of laurel." 



134 CATS. Chap, 33. 

Tbansmiqration of Souls. 
My father once visited Mr. Hall, a friend who re- 
ided in our county, of very singular opinions. He 
vas a great reader, and had imbibed the doctrine c^ 
he Metempsychosis from the Greeks. He was a miller, 
ipon an extensive scale, and kept many cats to protect 
lis com, from the ravages of rats and mice. So strong 
vas his belief in this ancient notion, that he could not 
>e prevailed upon to taste animal food, lest he should 
je devouring some one of his ancestors. — ^This opinion 
iras much strengthened by the discovery that one of 
lis cats was very fond of music ; he conceived it to 
jossess the soul of a musician. Several of these ani- 
uaLs were lying on the hearth, fuid he assured my 
ather that if he would sing a short strain, the cat 
vould awaken and show signs of pleasure ; and if the 
nusic were Handel's the experiment would be sure to 
lucceed. To be certain of no collusion, he hummed an 
lir not generally known. Hide me from day's garish 
^e, when Grimalkin instantly leaped upon his knee, 
ilacing her mouth near to his, and purring with evi- 
lent delight. " There," says Mr. Hall, " to my mind 
;he experiment is conclusive." The learned Mr. Colt- 
nan, who was present, observed that Plato maintained 
;he same doctrine, which is so well expressed by 
Dryden in the speech of Pyth^oras, when he would 
lissuade his hearers from eating animal food : — 

" Thus all things are altered, nothing dies : 
' And here and there, th' unbodied spirit flies. 



CARLTON. 135 

By time, or force, or sickness dispossess'd. 
And lodges where it lights, in bird or beast : 
From tenement to tenement is tossed, 
"jThe soul is still the same, the figure only lost !" 



CHAPTER XXXIII. 



CAELTON. 



My heroic friend was a man of noble demeanour, 
with a dark, intelligent countenance. His mind, like 
Don Quixote's, was fraught with lofty emotions. He 
was never easy unless enffaired to his heart's content, 
in some hazardous enterpLe. A duel was the height 
of his ambition. If entangled in a quarrel, where 
fair woman was involved, it gave him an opportunity to 
try his hair-trigger pistols, and he was supremely happy. 
He had been engaged three times in this way, had 
shot his man, and come off with a scratch. In con- 
versation, he aped the knights of old, and his prover- 
bial prowess won the hearts of his female admirers. 
Surrounded as he was, with beauty, in an evU hour 
he allied himself to a butcher's daughter, and became 
a married man. She was made up of a goodly 
store of honest fat, as rotund as a barrel. How 
strange ! some maintain that we marry our opposites : 
in this instance, the truth was completely shown, for 
our hero was as lean as the knight with the rueful 



136 GIPSIES. Chap. 32. 

countenance. He brought his wife to an old baronial 
hall in Leicestershire, where I visited him. His un- 
toward marriage had not disturbed his Quixotic char 
racter ; he was still the same imaginative being. His 
wife was never in his eye or- his thoughts ; but served 
as a Cynosure to draw around him, the sylphs and 
sjrrens of his fancy. Among these, were Julia — ^a fair- 
haired nymph, with blue eyes and a throat as white 
as the water lily ; and Barbara, a pensive brunette, 
who, with a ma^c touch, pressed out of the piano- 
forte sounds of the heart. These were the dulcineas, 
who governed all his actions. 

Our hero contrived every day some new amuse- 
ment. There was no want of horses and hght 
vehicles to visit the country round. The shining 
steeds were brought out, to be harnessed to the low 
drosky or char-a-banc for a drive to the ruined Abbey, 
situated in the neighbouring vale. While enjoying 
our lunch under the walnut-trees, a gipsy and his wife 
made their appearance, begging permission to try 
their magic .Tin telling fte forlL of the eomp,.^ 
Our chevalier consented saying, " If you rightly tell the 
destinies of the two fair ladies, by my faith, you shall 
take your tiun at the table and eat what is left." — 
This was performed without delay, and the young 
ladies were much amazed at the secrets divulged. 
After lunch, dancing on the lawn began, where, to 
my surprise, the gipsies broke into the dance and ran 
off with the two fair ones, rudely dragging them away 



i;iH 



SONG. 





]^ '^^[fpf^ijf^ ^ 




i:i9 















» ^rs 




m 



THE SURPRISE. 141 

in the utmost fright, when lo ! their ragged attire flew 
off^, and revealed the two Lotharios who had dined 
with them the previous night. The champaigne bottles 
being emptied, we drove home to a substantial dinner. 
Our evening amusements commenced with music, and 
finished with merry games. Miss Barbara touched a 
sonata of Beethoven's with deep expression, in which 
that great composer deplores the loss of one most dear 
to him.* It threw us into a pensive mood, when 
Carlton, to give a turn to such sensations, called upon 
me to sing the lines of his favourite poet, Sir Walter 
Raleigh, ^hich harmonized with the incident of the 
day: — 

SONG.— (Page 258.) 

** O shepherd, what is love, I pray ? 
It is a yea — ^it is a nay ; 
A pretty kind of sportive play ; 
It is a thing will soon away. 
Take vtotage, nymphs, while yet you mfy, 
And this is love ! as I hear say." 

* Dedicated to Haydn, in F minor. 



142 Chap. 34. 

CHAPTER XXXIV. 

OLD DALBT HALL. 

1793. — ^The honourable Mrs. Bowater, daughter 
of the Earl of Feversham, was on a visit to the Elector 
Palatine, when Pichegru invaded the Low Countries. 
The progress of the French armies was so rapid, that 
she was obliged to leave Bonn with the utmost speed. 
the Elector sent his chaplain, the Abbe Dobler, to see 
her safe to Hamburgh. While there, he was declared 
an emigrant, and his property seized. Luckily, he had 
placed some money in our government funds, and his 
only alternative was to proceed to England. Mrs. 
Bowater and her sister, the Countess of Radnor, had 
been kept out of their revenues by a disputed title for 
many years ; but eventually, they were awarded by a 
suit in Chancery, an estate of the value of three hun- 
dred thousand pounds. In 1793, the lady came to 
Leicester, in search of the estate of Old Dalby, in this 
county, where she intended to reside ; but the man- 
sion was so much out of repair that it would require 
a year or more to make it fit for her reception. Dur- 
ing this interval she took lodgings in Leicester. Mrs. 
Bowater, having lived much in Germany, had acquired 
a fine taste in music ; and as the Abbe was a very 
fine performer on the violin, music was essential to fill 
up this irksome period. My company was sought, 
with that of two of my friends, to make up, occasion- 



THE ABBE DOBLER. l43 

ally an instrumental quartet. The Abbe was a refined 
and accomplished gentleman, who wrote and spoke 
our language correctly ; and, as a specimen of his style 
and the nature of our parties, I copy one of his notes, 
received on a disagreeable, rainy morning : — " As the 
day is good for nothing but a dinner and music, Mrs. 
Bowater hopes for your company at four, and a 
quartet in the evening/' These visits were regularly 
continued till the lady removed to Old Dalby Hall. 
Our music consisted of the quartettos of Haydn, 
Bocherini, and Wranisky. The Abbe, who never tra- 
vefled without his violin, had luckily put into his fiddle- 
case a trio composed by Beethoven, just before he set 
off, which thus, in the year 1793, found its way to 
Leicester. This composition, so different from any- 
thing I had ever heard, awakened in me a new sense, 
a new delight, in the science of sounds. Beethoven 
was the son of a tenor singer in the cathedral of Bonn, 
and, as a lad, was patronized by my friend, 'and after- 
wards placed by the Elector und^r Haydn, at Vienna. 
This composition opened to me a new view of the art. 
It was a language that so powerfully excited my ima-r 
gination, that all other music appeared tame and 
spiritless. When I went to town, I enquired for the 
works of this author, but could learn nothing more 
tiian that he was considered a madman, and that his 
music was like himself. However, I had a friend at 
Hamburgh, through whom, although the war was 
raging at the tinae, I occasionally obtained some of 

I 2 



144 MRS. BOWATER. Chap. 34. 

these inestimable treasures. . In the summer of 1795, 
Mrs. Bowater removed to Dalby Hall. The mansion 
stands on the brow of the Woulds, overlooking the 
vale of Belvoir, as far as Lincoln, v^here the Minster 
proudly stands upon the distant horizon. The Hall 
is on the site of the ancient preceptory of the Knights 
Templar, some part of which may be discovered in the 
present structure. These cloisters, no longer inhabited 
by lazy monks, were now the seat of refinement and 
munificent hospitaUty. • In the twelfth century, nearly 
the whole of this district belonged to the Knights 
Hospitallers, a reUgious order of friars, who came 
from Italy. Roger de Mowbray, of Melton, was at 
the head of this fraternity, and gave most of the 
adjacent lands to this rehgious body. 

The Hospitallers, not contented with the un- 
bounded sway they held over the people, contrived to 
instigate the younger part of our nobility to take up 
arms in a crusade to the Holy Land, to rescue the se- 
pulchre from the Saracens. As an encouragement, 
the Pope promised to deliver from the pains of pur- 
gatory those who should fall in the conflict ; but to 
Richard Coeur de Lion he promised an instant entry 
into Paradise. Thousands who called, themselves, 
soldiers of Jesus Christ rushed to the royal standard 
to be sworn for the enterprise, Their dress and ap- 
pearance was terrific. They wore shirts and stockings 
of twisted mail, over which was cast a white cloak 
that reached to the ground. On the left shoulder, as. 



EARL OF LEICESTER. 145 

well as on the banner, was a large red cross ; and 
thus, armed with dreadful implements of slaughter, 
they assumed the appellation of Red Cross Knights. 
The whole country was infected with this unaccount- 
able 'madness, and no part of England exhibited fiercer 
champions in the cause than Leicestershire. Mow- 
bray, with the lion-hearted king, fought with unabated 
fury : not less so, did Mountfort, Earl of Leicester, 
also Fitzpatrick, and Bossu, of Belvoir. Mowbray lived 
to retire to the Isle of Cyprus, and engaged in the 
second crusade. On the defeat of the third crusade, 
this fiery spirit began to languish, and the remnant of 
the champions took shelter in the Isle of Rhodes. 
Soon afterwards they were driven out by the Turks, 
when Charles the Fifth and Clement the Seventh, gave 
them the Isle of Malta, as their last resting place. 
The priests, who had excited these unheard-of acts of 
heroism, with the most miblushing infamy, accused 
the Templars of heinous crimes, as a plea to seize upon 
their wealth and possessions. They were brought to 
trial in London, York, and many other cities, without 
a single charge being established against them. Many 
died under the torture of the rack, and the last of 
them was executed in the reign of Edward the Second. 
Let us turn from such dreadful times to view these 
quiet vales, no longer under the dominion of such a 
wretched superstition. As we descend from the 
barren Woulds, how luxuriant are the villas which 
border the meandering Wreak ! Hoby,' conspicuous 



146 COLONEL CHENEY. Ch^. 34. 

on her pleasant knoll, is a picture of rural beaaty. 
Below, Hes Brooksby, buried in trees, with its tapering 
9pire peeping just above them. Thence to Gaddesby 
— ^a paradise of ilex and spreading cedars. Here, in 
the park of the bold Cheneys,* stands the chapel of 
the Templars, adorned with the richest tracery. At 
Ashby Folville, Croxton, and Belvoir, we find the re- 
cumbent statues of these fearless warriors, sleeping un-^ 
disturbed. Could we but disentomb them, mounted 
as Red Cross Knights, what an array we should have 
of the most extraordinary madmen that ever set the 
world on fire. 

Our visits to Mrs. Bowater, in summer time, were 
delightful. Sometimes we had our music in the 
neighbouring woods, enjoying the cool air under the 
trees. Music, when heard among hills and dales, sur* 
rounded by the scenery of nature, produces a dramatic 
eflFect beyond that of the theatre. When the morning 
foreboded a sultry day, immediately after breakfast, 
the servants removed the instruments and books to a 
cleared spot in the hanging wood, on the other side 
the valley. Here, on a bank of wild-thyme, we fixed 
our sylvan orchestra. On the first crash of the in- 
struments, away scampered innumerable rabbits and 
the winged tenants of the trees above, alarmed at 
sounds never before heard on the silent Woulds. We 
began with the Thirty-fourth Quartetto of Haydn, 

♦ Colonel Cheney's ancestor w^s standard*bearer to Hemy VII.> at 

BoswoHh Field 



THIRTY-FOURTH QUARTETTO. 



147 



which opens with a strain of clear harmony, expressing 
the freshness of the morning : — 




t 



« 



"cr 



-eh 



i 



^ 



^^^^^3 

^m 



At the end of each movement, we were charmed with 
the voice of an echo. We stopped and amusecj our- 
selves with many replies, and were delighted by the 
miseen spirit repeating the two last bars of the minu- 
etto. In the following movement there is a touching 
and pathetic strain, to which I added words describing 
the anguish of a village maiden forsaken by her lover. 
The most striking eflFects, in instrumental music, are 
produced by the contrast of a pensive strain, followed 
by one that is brisk and joyous. How beautiful is 
the allegretto, with its false accents, tossing the melody 
about with infinite humour. Beethoven was the first 
to introduce the Scherzo, What a contrast it forms 
to his divine adagios ! It is in the slow movements of 
this author that* we trace his Miltonic feeling ; where 
the harmony winds its way through dark, mysterious 
keys, ^ 



SINGING. Ckl^l. 35. 

CHAPTER XXXV. 



Many persona suppose that we sing by nature — 
mtaneously — as birds do. This is a mistake. We 
I'e only a few instinctive tones in the voice, out of 
ich our speech is formed, and it is an easy step for 
; vocal organs to produce the tones of song. Sing- 
j masters begin with tiresome ml fas, in which there 
httle pleasure or profit. The scholar should be 
;iced on, with easy and agreeable songs, within the 
npass of the voice. Young persons seldom have 
ire than six or eight notes at command. Rousseau, 
ote a pretty ballad upon three notes, which a child 
lid sing with ease. M^Jiat a folly it is to call upon 
Lited voices to attempt the fashionable pieces which 
jfessional singers exhibit in pubhc, requiring a 
!at extent of voice. This subject I have treated 
ilosophically in the work entitled Music of Nature, 
. in a way so simple that any one can readUy under- 
nd it. In the previous volumes of this work there 
: more than a hundred pleasing songs, which in 
npass do not exceed eight or nine notes — some 
1 less. On referring to those which are most pleas- 
;, it will be found that the melody Hes within very 
TOW limits. I recollect Madame Grassini, sixty 
ITS ago, enrapturing the audience in the Opera-house 
;h the only nine notes she had in her voice, which 



B£L EFINE. I4d 

drew down the plaudits of thousands. The following 
simple ballad is within the attainment of the merest 
tyro : — 

SONG. (Page 274.) 

** Scarce sixteen summers had I seen 
Among my natire bowers ; 
Nor strayed my thoughts beyond the green, 
The garden, and the flowers : 

" Till once a stranger youth appeared ; 
I neither wished nor sought him : 
From whence he came, I never heard : 
He spoke what love had taught him. 



Vocal Performers. 

The beauty of the female voice is felt by every 
one who has a heart open to .the charms of music. 
Till the year 1700, women were never seen or heard 
upon the EngUsh stage ; their part being performed 
by boys in women's attire. In the London Gazette 
of that year it is announced that " The Italian lady, 
just come over sea, so famous for her singing — Signora 
Margarita Del Epine — ^will sing at the York Build- 
ings." This novel performance continued through 
the winter. Soon afterwards, our country-woman, Mrs. 
Tofts, presented herself as a rival, and excited great 
public attention as the first English woman that ever 
appeared on the stage. Colly Gibber thus speaks of 
her. " The beauty of her fine-proportioned figure. 



150 CUZZONI AND FAUSTINA* Chap. 35, 

and exquisite and sweet silver tones of her voice — ^with 
that peculiar rapid swiftness of her throat, were per* 
fections not to be imitated by art or labour." Pope 
has alluded to some detractions in the following 
epigram :— 

" So bright is thy beauty, so charming thy song. 
As had drawn both the beasts, and their orpheus along : 
But such is thy avarice, and such is thy pride, 
The beast must have starved, and the poet had died." 

K we refer to the music warbled forth by these 
ladies, it is surprising that such mawkish strains could 
produce so indescribable a dehght. The opera, at its 
commencement, was made up of the best Italian and 
English singers that could be found, each singing in 
lu^ native tongue. Ridiculous as the performance 
was, it so continued tiQ the arrival of Handel, who 
brought with him Cuzzoni, and her rival Faustina, and 
to produced something like sense and consistency. 

The warfare between these ladies increased to a more 

# 

violent degree of enmity than any contentions in 
Church or State. When the admirers of one party 
began to applaud, those of the other were sure to hiss, 
on which account the opera was closed for some time ; 
nor did the rancour abate till one erf them left the 
country. Horace Walpole says, " Cuzzoni was a short 
squat figure, with a doughy fiace : not a good actress, 
and dressed iQ. Faustina had a symmetrical figure, 
and a beautiful face/' No doubt, Cuzzoni was the 



ROUSSEAU, 151 

better singer, inasmuch as she could maintain her 
ground against the personal charms of Faustina. 
Pisaroni was the most superb singer I ever heard, but 
so unfortunately plain that she was hissed off the 
stage by the Bond-street loungers. The voices of 
women are classed under three heads ; soprano, mezzo, 
and contralto, i.e., highest, middle, and lowest, 
Cuzzoni, Billington, Salmon, and Catalani were of 
the brilliant class. Cuzzoni, Pisaroni, and Mali- 
bran, were contraltos, surpassing all others in depth 
of tone and sentiment. 

When Rosseau visited this country, he mentioned 
Mr. Beard as the only English singer that pleased 
him. At that time, the wonder of the world was 
Farinelh, whose name resounded throughout Eu- 
rope. The king of Spain, in a transport of deUgK 
made him his prime minister, which exalted post he 
held for twenty years. As oratorio singers, Norris, 
Bortleman, and Braham the (pride of our country), 
have never been supassed. Viganoni, Mario, and 
Reeves, have transcended all others on the operatic 
stage. I recollect Tremazzani, Naldi, and Ambr'o* 
getti. They were fine actors, but not so pre-eminent 
in song. The greatest now on the stage is Lablache. 
Considered merely as a singer, however, he could 
not be placed in the front rank ; but the peculiar force 
of his voice, and his gigantic figure, combined with a 
remarkable neatness of enunciation and lightness of 
step, render his performance unique and grand. The 



152 JAMBS BOLT. Chap. 36, 

volume of sound which he pours out upon the notes 
C, D, and E above the lines, makes him the Steiitor 
of the stage. 



CHAPTER XXXVI. 



JAMES BOLT. 



Like magnetism, the passion of love affects some 
persons more deeply than others. James Bolt, an in- 
dustrious young man, who had opened a grocer's shop 
' in my neighbourhood, begged to consult me upon a 
matter that troubled him. He was a careful bachelor, 
and well to do in the world. It was reported that, 
under a false name, he had been advertising for a wife, 
and that the girls who visited his shop set their caps at 
him. " Well James," I said, " what is the matter ?" 
" Why, sir, I wish to say that, in these long nights, 
after I have shut up my shop, I am very lonely, and 
should like a companion." " What, a wife, James !" 
I said. "Yes sir, if I dare to speak the word." 
" Well," I replied, " as I passed your window t'other 
morning, I could not but notice some smiling damsels 
talking to you very pleasantly." " dear, sir, that's 
the thing that troubles me. These girls, now and 
then, come in, in such shoals, they are quite too much for 
me. Somehow I can't put on a face to look at them, 
I'm so confused. It was only the other day, Kitty 



MISS PHILLIDA. 153 

Sims came for a pound of cheese, and I cut her off a 
pound of soap. It was very comical, I own, upon 
which they aU set up such a laugh that I was obHged 
to turn my back upon them." " Pooh ! pooh ! 
James," said I, " you must not let them get the better 
of you in this way. Be bold, man. It seems that you 
have plenty of choice ; strike up to the one you like 
best ; don't be afraid, and depend on't she will 
comply." " I was sorely vexed, sir, at my mistake, 
because PhiUida Smith was present." "Then, I 
guess, Phillida Smith is the girl of your heart." 
" Yes, sir, but she's not to be persuaded — ^though she 
knows how I like her." " I have a song, James, that 
exactly suits your case. You sing well; and, as 
music is •the voice of love, ten to one, with your other 
good qualities, Miss Phillida will relent." I after- 
wards learnt that she took pity on him, and made him 
a happy man for life. 

SONG.— (Page 262.) 

" Oh ! what a pain is love ! 
How shall I bear it ! 
She will inconstant prove, 
I greatly fear it ! 

" She so torments my mind, 
That my strength it faileth ; 
And wavers in the wind, 
Like a ship that saileth. 

"Please her the best I may, 
She looks another way ; 
Alas, a-well-a-day ! 

PhiUida, she scorns me. 



154 BEAUMARIS. Chap. 36. 

CHAPTER XXXVIL 

BEArXAKIS. 

At tills place I met with Cq)tam M'Nefllj, of the 
clan of M'Xefls, who own the isle of Barra. This 
gentleman, possessmg a singular love of enterprise, 
commenced a curious speculation, in the purchase of 
ships that have foundered in different seas. From the 
bin of lading he learned the nature of the cargo, and 
made a bargain for the whole omtents. In his ser- 
vice he had the most talented divers, and about twoity 
sailors. He was engaged in raising the ship Scotia^ 
a merchant vessel that wait down in agale of wind in 
the straits which separate PuflSoi Island from the main 
of Anglesea. 

The old mode of descending into the depths di 
the sea, by means of a diving bell is now discontinued. 
When wind and weather permit, the diving ship (a 
small vessel fitted up for the purpose) is moored over 
the sunken ship, at low water. The diver is accoutred 
in the following manner : — ^A coarse Macintosh gar- 
ment covers the entirc body, arms, and l^s, like a 
loose jacket and trousers in one piece. Then a copper 
helmet, with glass eyes, to which is attached a 
Macmtosh habit shirt, covers the head and neck to 
the shoulders. To the top of the helmet is fixed a 
flexible air tube, made iA india-mbbcs', which is 
connected with a forcing-pump in the diving-ship, by 



CAPTAIN M*NE1LLY. 15{J 

wMch the diver is supplied with a constant stream of 
fresh air. From the hehnet descend three copper 
tubes below the skirts of the habit shirt, down which 
the heavy air of the breath makes its escape, and 
bubbles up to the surface of the sea, like the boiling 
of a pot. As long as the air is forced down by the 
pump, no water can ascend into the helmet, which in 
fact, becomes it«elf a diving bell. Plates of lead, not 
less than two hundred pounds weight, are fixed to the 
diver's breast and back, which is found necessaiy to 
keep him from rising, and to enable him to walk 
about at the bottom of the sea. One would suppose, 
thus shackled, he could not readily move ; but that is 
not the case. These appendages are little or no 
incumbrance to him, when submerged in this element. 
As an instance, Captain M'Neilly assured me that 
two of his men, on finding a box of dollars, quarrelled 
over it, and actually fought at the bottom of the sea 
for the possession of the treasure — such is the fearless 
way in which this singular business is carried on. 
He also told me of a diver who had been drinking 
very freely, on falling asleep in the depths below, had hi» 
pocket picked by his companion during his submarine 
nap. 

Bangor. 

On Sunday, I walked from Beaumaris to the ferry 
that crosses the Menai Straits to Bangor — a shorter 



156 DOCTOB PRINO. Chap. 87. 

loute by four miles than over die suspensioH bridge. 
We arrived just as the congregation were leaving the 
western end of the cathedral, in which the service is 
conducted in Welsh, but in form precisely as in our 
parish churches. I called upon the organist. Dr. 
Pring,* who took me to the organ loft, where, his sob 
did the duty. Fortunately, it was the anniversary of 
the national school, and I had the pleaswe of seeing 
the Bishop, the dean, and the precentor officiate in 
the service. We had extraordinary music upon this 
occasion, and I was gratified by hearing the duetto 
from the Leicester ode, Here shall soft Charity repJair. 
It was admirably sung — superior to anything. I had 
heard in the country. 

Doctor Pring introduced me to the precentor. 
Dr. Cottoa, brother to Lord Combennere, who 
invited me to a saered concert in the Minster the 
following evening. A moveable orchestra was {)laced 
in the aisle opposite to the reading desk, where ihe pre- 
center directed the performance, and a most unexpected 
treat it was, to hear such' excellent music aalong the 
mountains. On expressing my surprise at the per- 
fection of the choir. Dr. Pring put into my hands an 
octavo volume, giving a history of his proceedings ib 
Chancery against the dean and chapter, by which he 
succeeded in rogainii^ the tythe upon thirty thousand 
acres of land, original^ left for the maii^t^iance of the 



• > 



* Doctor in iniiiie. 




SONG. 



157 



Lfg>ato< 



Att 1 ttut Mt my Bpiiining' whi-el A honiiy 

p 







I. 'is 



SONG. 



^^-.'^ 




^^iJJl l r^ 



What H dull fool waK I 



To 





^^ 



^ 



love be_»,.fore 




1 have per.. haps known.. 





n i mpA^.,^ ^ 



one or two 



>^i(h whom 1 was con... 




^m 



to be At 




that which thty call ketp.iiig* 






rtb — sence never never made me shed 



# 



ab sence 

•^ fs , .r^ S^ .-^ J . 



a 






tni — ly tro-Jy swear 



That (ill 



my 





eyt's first gnz^ on yo 



ne'er be. 




con moto. 



i f '^ n'i r; ^p \ } . . H i ^n 



..held that mHid 1 could H_.dore 1 could a. 

i 




m 



i'^a-ii ^ iJ ^ i 




__dore 1 could a dore a 




THE devil's bridge. 161 

choir, but whick the ctet^hacj appropriated to them-?* 
selves. This v^t increase of revenue had 'so aug- 
mentod the Salaries of the ,vicar'K i^horal; tt^t persons 
of taste and talent were applicants for the first va- 
cancy that occurred; and, excepting Durham, it is, 
probably, the first choir out of London 

Erom Bangor I passed to Aberystwith; in the cen- 
tre of Cardigan Bay, which is seventy miles in width. 
The mountain of Snowdon may be seen op the 
north, and Cardigan Castle on lie south. ' From 
hence, I visited that natural curiosity called the 
".Devil's Bridge," <«ce the property of the Kev. Mr. 
Owen (whom I met in Rome in 1847). This gentle-^ 
man is an amateur artist of great talent. He showed 
lae his sketches, taken in many parts of Europe, but 
none possessed a greater interest than the frightfal 
ravine, over which stretched the " Devil's Bridge," 
near this gentleman's mansion. More than one hun- 
dred feet below the brieve, there rages a cataract, 
falling from a great height, passing through a narrow 
channel, between precipitous rocks, into a black pool, 
foaming with spray. Prom thence it is projected over 
a rock, sixty feet lower, into a similar basin, and fi'om 
thence it takes lU final leap into the chasm, with such 
noise and fury that it is fidghtful to witness. I latdly 
met with a poeia by the American bard, Longfellow, 
whieh so well describes. this. scene, that I was induced 
to set liie li^s to music in the key, and with the dark 
harmonies » suitable to this phenom^on. As its 



162 BUETON. Chap. 38. 

sublimity can only be expressed by many parts and 
voices, I a!m sorry I cannot give it in this volume. 

SCENE. 

" This bridge is cafled the * Devil's Bridge', 
With a single arch, from ridge to ridge ; 
It leaps across the horrid chasm ; 
Yawning beneath us, black and deep. 
As if in some conyulsive spasm. 
The summit of the hills had crack'd. 
And made a road for the cataract 
That raves and rages down the steep." 

Lucifer is supposed to be under the arch, and cries, 
" Ha, ha, ha !" 



CHAPTER XXXVni. 



BUETON. 



Among our fashionables, my friend Burton was a 
good natured fellow — one of our exquisites — kindly 
devoted to the service of the ladies. Two dashing 
sisters, who often fell in his way, were the plague of 
his heart. Ever danghng in their train, he was con- 
stantly in love with one or the other. The gaiety of 
Miss Ann, made the deepest impression on him ; but 
at times so cruelly did she slight his regard, that he 
would turn to the gentler Jane, for kinder usage. 



GAY OFFICERS. 163 

Love was a spell from which, when once involved, he 
had no power to escape. Thus entangled, he proved 
a useful attendant on both these ladies. 

At that time the Sixty Eighth Regiment of Foot was 
quartered with us, and it was a pleasant lounge to 
witness their exercise in the field. Miss Ann would 
say, " Come, Burton, give us your arm, and walk with 
us to see the soldiers," upon which his face was lighted 
up with smiles. He was, indeed, too happy ; but, 
alas ! he soon had the mortification to perceive that 
the gay officers attracted all the attention of the 
ladies, while he, poor man, standing alone was quite 
overlooked. He was not, however, so dull but that he 
noticed with raised eyebrows, that these valiants, now 
and then, cast a quizzical look upon his elegant 
person, which somewhat nettled his self-love. This, 
however, was soon smoothened down by an en- 
chanting smile from his adored Ann. 

Walking one day with these fair dames, I espied 
Burton in the distance, when, to my surprise. Miss 
Ann exclaimed, " Heavens ! Burton is' coming ; let 
us turn another way : I can't bear the sight of the 
fribble." My^ mild and obsequious friend was not 
without some decision of character, and was not easily 
put aside from his purpose. Reflecting on their 
flirtations with the officers. Burton came to the con- 
clusion that there was something fascinating to ladies 
in the colour of a coat. He left Leicester, and entered 
a marching corps, and did not return till after an 

k2 



164 RED COAT. Chap. 38. 

absence of two years. With a firm step and careless 
air, he waited upon his adored, who exclauned on 
seeing him, " Bless me ! Can , it be Burton ! Can I 
believe my eyes. Why, where have you been ? How 
channing you look ! I should not have known you ! 
Why, where are you stationed ?" " Nowhere," was 
the reply. "We are always marching about — ever 
on the wing." How delightful," cried the lady to her 
sister. " How romantic, Jane ! — ^the life of all others 
I should like to lead !" How altered now, the ladies' 
tone! Burton complacently surveyed himself, and 
ascribed the sweetness of her words to the gUtter of 
his uniform. In less than three weeks he led her to 
the altar. On the whole, they lived together a happy 
couple. Sometimes, when not in the kindest mood. 
Burton would whisper in her ear the following song, 
which never failed to bring her into good humour : — 

SONG.— (Page 346.) 

" A woman's nay is no denial, 

Silly youths of love are served so ; 
Put her to a further trial, 

Haply she will take it, and say no : 
' For 'tis a trick that women use, 

What they love they will refuse. 

" Silly youth, why dost thou dally, 
Having time and season fit ; 
Then, never stand, shilly-shally. 
Nor much commend an after wit : 
For he that will not when he may, 
When he will, he shall have nay." 



ATTRACTION OF LOVE. 165 



[1 



CHAPTER XXXIX. 



LOADSTONE OF LOVE. 



Those who have a great fondness for music are, I 
conjecture, more prone to fall in love than others. 
Shakspere says, " Music is the food of love." When, 
as a lad, I was first affected with the soft passion, it 
was for a lady twice my own age. Adolescence is not 
averse to maturity) nor old age to the charms of youth. 
Miss R. was elegant and beautiful, but I did not feel 
the entire force of her charms till she sat down to the 
harpischord and played with a neat touch. Garth's 
Sonata in G, in which that subduing chord of the 
seventh immediately occurs, having, harmoniously 
speaking, the same effect upon the ear, as beauty upon 
the eye. Newton observes that similar impulses upon 
the nerves superinduce similar affections in the mind. 
If so, sounds are intimately interwoven with the pas- 
sion of love. Nor is it too much to believe that musi- 
cal souls regard one another with more than common 
affection. In the whole range of affections, that of 
love most readily alMes itself with music. In return, 
the tenderest expressions of melody find instant way 
to the heart. The music of Mozart is of this descrip- 
tion. Old Handel, rough as he was, displayed the 
most kindly feeling of his nature in his love songs. It 
is lucky for the poet, who is ambitious to shine in song. 



166 HANDEL. Chap. 39. 

when the first Une is a happy one — ^the musician being 
lured by the delight of marrying his sounds to the 
sweetness of the opening words. On entering upon 
the second verse how frequently do we find the 
euphonious connexion gone, and the charm dis- 
solved. Numerous instances may be seen in the songs 
of Handel, where he uses the crabbed words as a 
foil to the return of the mellifluous : — 

" Love in her eyes sits playing. 
And sheds delicious deaths 

'' Where shall I seek the charming fair ! 



(( 



Love sounds the alarm, 
And fear is a flying : 

When beauty's the prize, 
What mortal fears dying. 



" Heart, thou seat of soft delight." 



This author, is the Michael Angelo of musicians. 
His talent lay in a Herculean power of bringing 
masses of sound together to express the sublime- 
never attempted before by any composer. In modem 
art, the very same effect is produced by opposite 
means. As a specimen of the true Amoroso, what song 
can be put in competition with the Adelaida of 
Beethoven ? It is replete with the impassioned tones 
of the heart. 



REV. MR. JOHNSON. 167 



CHAPTER XL. 



REV. MR. JOHNSON. 



Among my musical visits none were more delight- 
ful tkan those I frequently paid to Mr. Johnson, at 
Aston Rectory, in Derbyshire. He was the son of 
Mr. Johnson, of Burleigh-field, near Loughborough, a 
gentleman of ancient family. His dress was the 
fashion of a preceding age — ^the entire suit made of 
jdoth of a light colour, edged with silver or gold lace, 
and his hair in a bag. Such was this gentleman's 
love of music that, it is said, on his journey to Bath, 
with a friend, a desk was contrived in their roomy 
carriage, so that they could get rid of the tedium of 
bad roads by playing CoreUi's Sonatas, for a violin 
and bass. His son, the rector of Aston, inheriting 
an enthusiasm nearly as great, convened a musical 
party at his house once a month, through fifty years. 
To these concerts I was invited, and had much plea- 
sure. Gur music consisted of the instrumental works 
of Corelli, Bocherini, and Handel. Soon after, we had 
Haydn and Mozart ; but it was not tiQ Beethoven's 
Sinfonies were published, as chamber music, that 
we became acquainted with the wonderful thoughts 
of that great composer. Mr. Johnson was of 
the old school; but quickly entered into all the 
novel expressions of modem art. I had written a 



168 FLAMST££D. Chap. 41. 

fanciful description of the Sinfonia JEroica* in 
which I attempted to give the author's meaniqg. 
This was always read before we began, and \ was 
called upon to direct the musical expression. 

We frequently had the neighbouring clergy as au- 
ditors. I remember the Rev. Mr. Elamsteed, who 
possessed the papers of his ancestor, the astroitomer, 
among which was the famous catalogue he made of 
the stars. It was for the Derbyshire astronomer, 
that the Observatory was built in Greenwich-park, 
still known by the name of Hamsteed House. Mr. 
Johnson held the rectory of Aston for more than 
fifty years. I speak of his elegant and amiable sisters 
in the first volume of this work, as the most accom- 
phshed ladies in Leicestershire. 



CHAPTER XLI. 



CLASSICAL MUSIC. 



I have been asked, on more than one occasion, to 
define what is meant by classical music. Johnson 
says, classical works are those that rank the highest in 
any science or art. This is not the sense in which the 
term is used in music. It simply means the compoid- 

* Vide vol 3, 684. 



CLASSICAL MUSIC. 169 

tions of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, which 
have come down to us by their acknowledged merit. 

The chief characteristic of these compositions is 
that of being constructed upon the principles of Canon 
and Fugue, The movement signifies jlighty as the 
voices or parts fly after each other. The motion 
may be compared to that of a dance, where a person 
sets off through various turns and windings, and is 
followed by a second, who pursues the same track. 

The singularity consists in this :-though aU the 
voices sing precisely the same notes, yet, by starting 
at given intervals, a new musical effect is the result, 
varied fi-om the blending of the voices, and forming 
an afin*eeable harmony. This requires ^reat skill in the 
cmloser to p«fect ».d is oton rZ curiom than 
beautiful. In these ancient compositions, other de- 
vices to attain variety are used, such as - inversion ; 
that is, turning the music upside down, placing the 
upper part of the harmony at the bottom, and vice 
vtersa. Another style of writing, is a sort of logical 
music, made up of propositions, in musical phrase- 
ology, with their answers or replies. The notes of the 
Diatonic Scale, when rising or falling in rhythmical 
order, gratify the ear, like the motion of visual objects 
upon the eye : fi-om this source is derived what is 
termed Imitation — bh important feature in ancient 
music. Fugues are properly the offspring of instru- 
mental music, and probably were first composed upon 
the organ. 



170 MESSIAH. Chap. 41. 

In vocal music, it is the object of the composer, by 
the aid of somids, to raise and heighten in the mind 
the sentiments which the words convey. As a beau- 
tiful example we may mention the song in the Memah 
— A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. 
Here, the words and notes assist each other in giving 
a just expression to this divine song. On the con- 
trary, the chorus that follows, He trmted in God 
that he tootdd deliver him, being a fugue, is utterly 
spoilt by the addition of the words. As an instru- 
mental piece, the ear takes dehght in perceiving the 
ingenious motion of the parts ; but, as a vocal compo- 
sition, there is an absurdity which cannot be got over. 
The words, by their friction, spoil the music, and the 
musical phraseology destroys the pronunciation of the 
words: as a consequence, we have the stammering 
sentence, Se woo-oo-ood deliver him. Music of this 
mechanical structure, in which neither passion nor 
violent sensations ever occur, is now superseded by a 
language of sounds, more in aUiance with our nature. 
We no longer reason upon the art, but are satisfied 
to acknowledge its powerful influence upon our 
feelings. * ^ 

Haydn was the first who caught those instinctive 
tones of our nature, that speak so forcibly to the heart, 
and in this he was followed by Mozart. But it was 
reserved for Beethoven to grasp the whole arcana of 
sounds, to originate an art sui generis, in which sounds 
by themselves operate upon the imagination, without 



DEATH OF A HERO. 171 

the aid of words — a poetiy in music which has 
not been approached by any other author, and whose 
later compositions are not even yet understood. In his 
posthumous works, written when he was impenetrably 
deaf, so inefficient is our present notation to express 
the thoughts of this genius, that we must wait for 
another age to decipher them 

So vast are the materials at the composer's com- 
mand, in the whole range of nature's sotmds, that 
there can be no Umit to the effects that may be 
wrought in the instrumental orchestra a hundred 
years hence. 



CHAPTER XLII. 



BEETHOVEN. 



If I am asked, what in the whole range of the fine 
arts — ^whether in poetry, painting, or music, delights 
me most — ^affords the widest field for the imagma- 
tion to revel in — ^I reply a pianoforte sonata of 
Beethoven. Those for the pianoforte alone charm me 
beyond all other ; for in these, the author indulges in 
all the mysteries of his art ; it is a language, a sense, 
above every other, that transports the fancy. Out of 
eighty pieces let me speak of one — ^that on the death 
of a hero. 

Though the opening strain is divided into five so- 



172 MARCHE FUNEBRE. Chap. 42. 

called variations, they are improperly so termed. 
They are one continuous theme, forming an unbroken 
display of the author's powers in leading you through 
scenery of indescribable interest and beauty, which no 
other art can present to the mind. When performed 
by an inspired hand, its fanciful flights and exquisite 
touches, enwrap the soul in a delirium of dehght. In 
the first variation, when the melody begins to take 
wing, how elegant ! how gentle the motion ! In the 
second, when the bass catches the enthusiasm, and is 
imbued with the air, how divinely does it put forth its 
manly voice ; applauded by an unceasing cry from the 
animated spirits in the upper air ! What a sensation 
is excited in the gloomy key of seven flats ! The 
single notes in the bass, alarm us, from fathomless 
depths below. As the movement draws to a close, 
we find om*selves enveloped in a shower of particles 
of sound as it were — ^in a musical mist. Such are 
the wonderful effects wrought upon our feehngs, that 
we desire nothing more. Affected as we have been by 
this andante, we can scarcely be reconciled to the mirth 
of the Scherzo that follows. 

In the Marche Funebre, how we grope through 
subterraneous harmonies to the dark resting place of 
the hero, when, as by magic, there springs up a 
musical vapour, so thin, so light, as scarcely to be 
perceptible to the ear, depicting the spirit of the de- 
parted ascending to the regions above. The climax 
of the scene is a rhapsody, where the highest 



EXERCISE. 173 

powers of music are blended — ^the tender with the 
grand, in which the emotions of the soul are lost in 
deUght ! 



CHAPTER XLIII. 

EXERCISE.* 



Old sayings are generally true. The familiar one, 
that " Use is second Nature" few will doubt. Some 
philosophers maintain that nature herself improves. 
The geologists aflBrm the deeper you penetrate into 
the strata of the earth, the simpler you find the struc- 
ture of all organised beings, as they lie embedded in 
a fossil state. Reasoning upwards they further main- 
tain that it was not till the last convulsion of our 
globe that it was made fit for the reception of man, 
the most perfect of God's works. 

Like the plants and animals that have gone before 
him, he is in a gradual process of improvement ; so 
much so, that in time he may approximate to the 
power of angels. If we refer to his savage state, and 
compare him with civilized man, he can scarcely be 
considered of the same species. This allowed, it cannot 
be denied, such is the advance of science, that the 
human intellect has progressed in a still higher 
degree. 

* This appeared in the Leicester Journal, Nov. 7, 1851. 






174 MUSCLES OB NERVES. Chap. 43. 

In a state of nature the instincts and bodily 
powers are incredibly strong. The savage can endure 
labour, heat and cold, hunger and thirst, better than 
we can. The ploughman and the philosopher, though 
of the same mould, are made of different materials. 
The one being brought up in the fields, and exposed 
to the elements, his skin becomes thick and hard, as 
a defence. The other, nursed in the lap of luxury, 
would without clothing, perish with cold. The one 
abounds in sinewy muscle ; the other is spread over 
with sensitive nerves. 

Both these states deviate too much from the line 
which nature intends. The bodily and mental powers 
to Uve and last, should go hand in hand. The lower 
orders suffer from the want of mental culture. They 
are all body and no mind. Their thoughts and appe- 
tites are little better than those of the animals just be^ 

I 

low them. On the contrary, the refined of our 
species run into the other extreme; generating a 
feebleness of body in which numberless diseases take 
root, and prove a dire infliction upon mankind. 

After this speculation upon our origin and well- 
being in the world, I will go to my subject, " The 
Use of Exercise.'* 

My father was remarkable for his hghitness of step 
at the age of ninety-four. He was regular in taking 
his walking exercise every day— sometimes twice a day. 
In approaching a similar age I look back upon many 
of his actions as a guide, and have scrupulously 



J 



WALKING. 175 

adopted his habits. In summer time I walk' before 
breakfast, as I dine in the middle of the day, and 
again I enjoy a raaoable in the evening, afber tea. 

In the winter, I avail myself of the prime of the 
day. A little rain never stops me ; if I am oai^ht, I 
accelerate my pace, and return, with a 8%ht perspira- 
^r^I/ol.^ my ir^ tor dhl ; h Je. I 
never take cold. 

The best pace is that which accords with the 
motion of the pulse— if you hurry beyond that, you 
are sooner fatigued. My pulse seldom varies from 
sixty to sixty-four — ^what Handel terms Tempo 
Ordinaria, or Common Time — ^that is my natural pace. 
If you walk slow you may walk all day. 

I never wdk ^th . rtick. Anj-thmg c«ried in 
the hand destroys the erect position of the body, and 
interrupts the swing of the arms. The arms are pen- 
dulums, which act like the fly-wheel in machinery, to 
steady the motion. In my walks I prefer undulating 
fields to a plain road. If windy I meet it, and return 
home with the wind at my back. 

Walk once a day, and you will never have occasion 
for a doctor and his calomel. 

I may with propriety conclude with the striking 
remarks of Dr. Uwins upon Exercise, which occur in 
a work he wrote upon Mental Diseases. He says : — 
" I urge upon all, and especially those whose habits or 
callings are sedentary, to contrive some motive for daily 
walking. Even if at present inconvenienced by their 



17^ 



'' \ 



90CTQR VWUfS; 



Gluff. 43. 



confinement, the cloud will be insonsibly collecting, 
that shpll aooner or later darken their . spirits, orT^reak,^ 
upon theta in the fulness cff apoplectic stupor. A 
physician, with whom I was well acquainted, dud who 
wafl scarcely ever upon his legs, said he found no in- 
convenient^ in«fHttin^ day after day in iubcarriage and. 
his, stwdy; tut be died ^suddenly by an apoplectic 

^strcil^e, which I verily believe might have been averted, 
hadhft made, less use of his carriage aiui* more" of his 
limbs. In contrast with this case, a fiicnd ' of mine 
has pieaerved the health of his body and soundness of 
minJthrwgh a long course of illultifarit)us and *dis- 
tressinff chrcumsttoaes by steadily waJking* ev«ry da^ . 

• He ias ajifvived all his literary friends, at a period 
wkmidA ow^tiogs excited so much pubHc atten- 
fion^ The preservation irf this equanimity of mind I 
attribute to his daily exercise. Mr. Abernethey said 
tOi me — ' Dr. Uwins, — ^Were I a gentleman, I would 
never get into my carriage ; for certain it ^i that many 
diseases of the most troublesome kind, besides un- 
soundness of mind, may be traced to -this idle and 
injurious habit.' '' * 



* • 



« »■ 



J". 



S '■ 



JOHN ALLEN AND PHOEBE GRAY. 

Soilfr*. . 



177 




178 




^■H^ j^f 





He or beem to De Kin..c«fri' Givf me rea sun to des. 



j~ri^i933ri! 





Fondnetts sl^ll my witiheB cloy 





. N JTi'J'^ ■!i 




Make me care lestt of my j<iy make me care less 





mmrfl 







P ^^ 



care, less ciire-lesc* of mv jo 

J3. r^ /^ 




MODERATO. 




Loverb may of course com.^plaiu Of their trouble and of 






^ 



:?=^ 



r;r n^f ?^ 







179 





^ 




will not pleiibe Love witluoiit it vill not please 





But if pain wad tro.uhle ceHse ,Love without it 



hji i j : ! I ts . U dia U:^ 




will notpU'Mst' Love without it will uot will n(»t pleube not 




/ 



I HO 







S O N G . 

Play four hnrn uk nymph on^ 






His i^grlehurnthehanteriiouuds HaLJoo M-l^" *«!- 

, ' . t : . — I — ■ 1 — aC- 



i 



:?=^ 



^ 



^ 




,Theneig*hing'st|eed he forwurdboundBTheyeJIpiiii^ pack pur. 



¥ 



I 



^P • 







hifl anil dale a. .way we fly See see the g^ames m 




--loo»halloohal.-loo^ ^ And ethoeb sweet ReJturu A*J Hal- 




m^x i f^f- iI e 





e^-.^ 



Sl^ 



m 



I 




_ Joo hj<l.loo llitl.^ JiiO^^ J 



^^m 








MILK DIET 181 



CHAl»TER XLIV. 



f- 
DJET. 



Iff reading the secoAd volume of Marmontel, I 
met ' \nth the following passage, vfaidL exactly 
agrees witH my own ideas of diet. He says : — 

" r-(mc5e indulged the whim of living for six weeks 
on milk, at Compeigne. Never was my soul mofe 
cahn, more powerful, than during this regimen. My 
days flowed along in study, with unalterable equality ; 
my nights were hut one gentle sleep, and after waking 
in the morning, what pleasure to drink a bowLof milk 
from my Httle black cow. I again closed my^eyes to 
slumber another hour. Discord might have over- 
turned the world ; it would not have shaken me.'' 

Diet, with Uteraiy people, is of the greatest im- 
portance, in keeping a ^ice balance between mind and 
body. T%e dictates of nature are a safe^ guide to 
follow in the choice of food. Milk more speedily 
restores and nourishes the body than any other kind 
of food. We increase in size and weight more ra- 
pifiy in infancy, than in any after stage of life. I 
have taken it for my supper, thickened with oatmeal, 
through a long life, and can say with Marmontel, that 
I have risen in the morning with hfe and spirit. I 
never take it for breakfast, as two meals precisely 
alike should not follow each other. The stomach likes 



182 HOT TEA. Chap. 44. 

a change. Tea is the greatest blessing ever bestowed 
on literary and sedentary men. Whenever the bodily 
exertions are Ught, the food should be light also. Tea 
is peculiarly adapted for those females who have no 
laborious occupation. During fifty years, many poor 
nervous creatures have applied to me for an admission 
into the Leicester Infirmary, whose complaints I could 
trace to the bad habit of drinking their tea too hot. 
I have asked them, " Did you ever put the back of 
your little finger into your cup of tea just before you 
drank it ?" " No" has always been the answer. " Then 
go home," I have repUed, " and make this experiment. 
K your finger is scalded, see how you have been treat- 
ing the deUcate coats of your stomach." I have then 
given them some pure oatmeal to make into nulk 
porridge for their supper, and told them to call upon 
me in a week, and, if no better, I would give them a re- 
commendation. Many have come to thank me, say- 
ing they had lost their complaint. Coffee, in my 
opinion, is not so wholesome as tea, unless drunk in 
the way of the French — ^nearly half milk. 



UNLIMITED LOO. 18S 



CHAPTER XLV. 



CARDS. 



I 



I agree with Mannonters opinion as to playing at 
cards. He says : — " When at the Palace of Fontaine- 
bleau, I had but one amusement — to be a by-stander 
at the royal card table in the drawing-room. There I 
had used to look round the lansquenet table, and ob- 
serve the torments of passion, the greedy thirst for 
gold, hope, fear, the pain of losing, the ardour of win- 
ning, the joy that followed a full hand, the despair 
that accompanied baffled expectation, under the stern 
mask of cold tranquillity." I, too, have witnessed 
similar agitation in the more humble circles in my 
native town. A lover of fine arts can have no real 
pleasure in such conflicts. In a musical party at the 
house of Major Roberts, I was pressed by three ladies 
to make one at a loo table. I said I knew nothing of 
the game Oh ! that was not at all necessary ; I should 
soon learn it. These ladies had once been hand- 
some, but their soft looks had become hardened by 
I eagerness for play. It was to be unUmited loo. 
" Very well," I said, " The less restrained, the more 
noble the game," and my spirit was applauded. 
Alas ! in ten minutes I lost all the gold in my pocket. 
I left the table, and consoled myself at the pianoforte. 
From that day to this I have never been seduced to 
play again at loo. It is a wise maxim, never to 
meddle with anything you don't well understand. 

L 2 



184 JOHN BROWN. Chap. 46. 



CHAPTER XLVI. 

JOHN BBOWK. 

My musical friend Brown, a shy melancholy 
bachelor, was drawn into marriage by a pretty face and 
beguiling tongue. He was a man of few words, and 
his part in the courtship consisted more of nods and 
winks, than the usual tokens of love. The insinuat- 
ing looks of the lady sank deep into John's good 
natured heart, and he feU a prey to Miss Bridget's 
winning ways. 

The honey-moon was scarcely over, when Mrs. 
Brown, to carry a favourite point, opened her loqua- 
cious battery upon her husband — ^a sort of music for 
which he had no relish. All she could do only pro- 
s voked a shake of the head, which never failed to add 
to the fury of the cannonade. When her crescendo 
was at the highest, Brown would take to his bass 
viol, and strum over a noisy tune, to drive her song 
out of his ears. I felt for my friend, and furnished 
him with the following, which he played and sang 
with all his might, whenever she let fly a volley 
upon him : — 

SONG.— {Page 370.) 

" A woman's face is full of wiles, 
Her tears are either hot or cool : 



MUSICAL SCALE. 185 

With outward cheer on thee she smiles, 
When in her heart, she calls thee fool. 

'* Her tongue still chats of this and that. 
Nor aspen leaf it wags more fast : 
And as she talks, she knows not what, 
"lis nonsense all while e'er it last. 

** Her wayward mind is all caprice. 

And faith in that you think to find ; 
The weather vane more constant is, 
Which turns about with every wind.' 



I u7l%-:nk 4^^^-m^^ -u A :i."L :_j » 



CHAPTER XLVII. 

THE ORIGIN OF THE MUSICAL 9CALE. 

Every art has its principles ; those of music are 
more complex than those of painting. Besides, music 
is both a science and an art ; is one of our principal 
recreations through life, and one of which every one 
thinks himself a competent judge. Not but that we 
should like to hi|,ve correct notions upon the scientific 
part of the subject, could we acquire them with the 
same ease with which we gain a great portion of our 
knowledge ; but this is not to be readily attained — 
the complexity renders the study of it long and dif- 
ficult. 



186 HARMONY. Chap. 47. 

Music is the art of producing emotions in the 
human mind, by certain combinations of sound. The 
sense of hearing on which it acts, is its only agent, 
and its power is developed, more or less, on the nerves 
of most animals. Some it moves with an agitation so 
violent as to border upon pain ; to others it imparts 
the greatest pleasure. 

The formation of a musical ear depends on early 
impressions. Children brought up in musical fa- 
milies, who are often entertained by musical instru- 
ments or nurses songs, soon acquire a musical sense, 
and, in some instances, to such a degree, as to be 
regarded as prodigies ; I might instance the case of 
Crotch, and many others. 

Harmony is inherent in a dngle sound, like that of 
St. Paul's bell, which a practised ear will perceive to 
be really made up of three sounds, yet so nicely 
blended as to appear, to ordinary listeners, but one. 
This combination produces a rich and sweet sensation 
upon the ear, called concord. It is from noticing the 
harinonics vfloiiAi attend the primary sound, that we 
have been led to discover all the sounds, which go to 
the formation of the musical scale. 

A pipe twenty-four inches long, whatever may be 
the bore, sounds C below the line. A pipe half the 
length, gives the octave above. A pipe two thirds the 
length, i.e. sixteen inches, sounds G, the fifth above. 
It will be obvious that from these data, we can accu- 
rately deduce every sound that goes to the formation 



NOTATION. 187 

« 

of the musical scale. So true are these facts, that a 
deaf man has been known to construct an organ, by 
mere admeasurement, leaving every pipe in tune. 
From this standard of measure we can obtain a certain 
pitch, or tone, for the key-fork. But through neglect 
of this standard of measure, the pitch has for the last 
300 years, been constantly rising, as our old organs 
will testify, the pipes of which have necessarily been 
shortened and raised from time to time, to keep pace 
with this tendency to sharpen the pitch. 

Let us, then, see how the notes of the scale are de- 
rived. They are founded on a law of nature, and there 
can be no other order of sotmds on which rational and 
pleasing music can be constructed. The first spe- 
cimens of notation were little square spots placed upon 
parallel lines, which marked the intervals between one 
sound and another. The characters were but few, as 
the strains were short and simple. These ancient 
bits of melody are handed down to us by the musical 
Fathers, St. Ambrose and St. Gregory, and are 
retained in our cathedrals to the present day, under 
the name of chaunts or ecclesiastical tones, and 
are, without doubt, fragments of song used in re- 
ligious ceremonies ever since the time of the ancient 
Greeks. 

Harmony is a combination of sounds — concords 
imd discords ; the effects of which, in modulating, from 
one key to another, may be compared to the transmu- 
tation of colours in a moving prism ; for no sooner do 



188 THOROUGH BASS. Chap. 47. 

» 

Ve contemplate that which delights us, than it shifts 
into a different hue, as pleasing as the last. 

The laws of counterpoint are curious and difficult 
of explanation. Thorofiigh baas is the art of playing 
the unadorned harmony to a piece of music by figures 
placed under the bass notes. Out of harmony we 
derive a pleasing effect called melody — a progression 
of harmonic sounds, following each other in a certain 
rhythm. The notes of the Swiss horn, which are 
nothing more than the harmonies of that instrument, 
spontaneously produce fragments of sweet melody, as 
in the Bans de Vaches. These little strains, returned 
by the echoes which appear to leap among the 
mountains, give delight and amusement to that 
simple people. 

The organ of the human voice produces naturally 
the same succession of notes. We hear in some voices 
a melodious speech ; especially in the Italians, owing 
to the vocality of their language — so much so, that the 
voice often starts into recitative and song, without the 
speaker being aware of it ; an effect truly delightful. 
Melody, then, first attracts the attention of those who 
are unacquainted with the science of music. Har- 
mony is nbt so conspicuous ; it does not lay hold of 
the ear in the same way ; it is an intellectual enjoy- 
ment, whereas melody touches the feelings. It has 
long been disputed whether the ancients were ac- 
quainted with harmony, or were contented simply with 
melody. That they were informed of the laws of 



SUBLIME AND BEAUTIFUL. 189 

composition and counterpoint may well be doubted ; 
these are the discoveries of a subsequent age ; but 
that they made harmony by striking two or three 
strings of the lyre together is natural to suppose. 
Nay, by t^e old song, copied from the ancient Greeks^ 
we see their chief musicians knew something of the 
art: — 

" When Orpheus went down to the regions below. 
Which men are forbidden to see ; 
He tuned up his lyre, as old historips show, 
To set Ids Eurydice free. 

" All Hell was astonished, a person so wise 
Should rashly endanger his life. 
And yenture so far ; but how vast their surprise 
When they heard, that he came for his wife !" 

Mr. Burke, who, like Dr. Johnson and Pope, had 
no ear for music, ventures to suppose that the sublime 
in music is produced by abrupt clashes of discordant 
sounds ; and that the beauty of melody depends upon 
its moving in small undulations, like the gentle lise 
and fall of a beautiful country. Nothing is more 
true. 

With music of this simple kind the singer seldom 
fails to please. He trusts to the charm of the melody 
rather than the force of the words ; recollecting that 
we must please the ear before we can touch the 
heart. Poetry, to be set to music, should have but 
one subject, and that sweetly expressed in as few 
words as possible. Melody can tell its own tale, 
and words are of no further use, than to hint at 



190 MUSICAL IDEAS. Chap. 47. 

the passion the music would excite. Madame de 
Stael says, " When the whole soul is affected, every 
thing but the music itself is unseasonable, and dis- 
tracts the attention. We give ourselves up to that 
delightful reverie into which it throws us, and it an- 
nihilates all thoughts which may be expressed by 
words." 

Modulation. 

There is no branch of musical science more neces- 
sary to a composer than Modulation. As melody sig- 
nifies a progression of single sounds, so does modulation 
signify a progression of chords, or combined sounds. 
To conduct the harmony with ease and grace, is a dis- 
tinguishing quality in a first-rate composer. To skip 
from one chord to another, merely for the sake of 
change and without obvious purpose, is a fi-equent 
£ault in young and unskilful composers, betraying an 
ignorance of the art of modulation, and a poverty of 
invention. As there are twelve semitones within the 
octave, and any one of these may be taken as the 
basis of a key, and as every key may be formed to be 
either major or mioor, there are consequently, not 
less than twenty-four keys into which, in modulating ^ 
we may occasionally move. 

Musical ideas connected together, form a musical 
composition. This, in other terms, is a discourse ex- 
pressed in sounds instead of words ; and from what 
has been said, we may infer that it consists of Harmony 
and Melody in rhythmical phrases. 



COKP08ITION. 191 

Composition in poetry, and in some arts of design, 
presents itself to the imagination of the poet, or the 
artist, under the form of a simple idea, to be expressed 
just as it is conceived. It is not so in music : in this 
art, everything is complicated. It is not merely to 
imagine agreeable melodies, or to make beautiful 
combinations of harmony, or to invent fine effects of 
instrumentation, but it is to do all this at once ; for 
each voice or instrument advances in its own particular 
way, and the combination of all these movements 
constitutes the music. Ordinary listeners are not 
aware how the beauty of a mdbdy is% enhanced by the 
accompaniment, i.e., by the evolutions of harmony 
which play underneath it. The whole of their pleasure 
is ascribed to the singer, for they are insensible to 
the sounds of the orchestra, which they imagine to be 
doing nothing more than playing the same part with 
the voice. 

Vocal Composition. 

In vocal composition it is an error to attempt to 
adapt to each separate idea its appropriate musical 
expression. There is otten a new thought in each 
new line of a song^ which it is impossible for the 
composer to express, without changing the course of the 
melody, and thus greatly deforming his music. If he 
aims at expressing the meaning of particular words, 
his melody will partake of the style of recitative, in 
which the words predominate over the music ; whereas, 
if the poetry is made subservient to the music, express- 



192 PASSIONATE TONES. Chap. 47. 

ing, in as few words as possible, a simple but deep 
feeling, then the music is restored to its supremacy. 
In comic pieces, as every word has a distinct note, we 
are often pleased with a hurried articulation, which 
produces a Uvely and stirring effect. If we examine 
these pieces, we find the music but conmionplace. 
When the rhythm accords with the accent of the 
words, it greatly contributes to the drollery. We might 
give many instances from our lyric bards. Burns and 
Moore, of the happy connection between the words 
and music. Poets, I presume, are strongly moved by 
the tune and the rhythm, to which they write their 
verses. Who can doubt that the following words were 
superinduced by the pensive tone of the niusic ? The 
gentle simplicity of the one is matched by the tender- 
ness of the other : — 

" Behind yon hills, where Lugar flows — 
'Mang muirs and mosses many, ; 
The wintry sun the day has closed. 
And I'll awa' to Nannie, O. 

" Tho' westlin' winds blaw loud and shrill, 
And it's baith mirk and rainy, ; 
I'll get my plaid, and out I'U steal, 
And o'er the hills to Nannie, O." 

One of the most peculiar properties of the human 
voice — ^a quality in which it surpasses all other instru- 
ments, is that of passionate expression drawn from the 
instinctive tones of our nature; such as we utter in grief. 



RHYTHM OF TIME. 193^ 

anger, fear, and surprise. Children have no difficulty 
in expressing their wants, pleasures, or pains, long be- 
fore they can speak or understand the meaning of a 
word, by these primitive tones, which more quickly 
move us than language itself. How strikingly Braham 
infased these passionate expressions into Jepthaa 
Vow. It was a musical elocution, which touched the 
feelings of the most obdurate Usteners. It was the 
plaintive — I might say, the weeping — ^tone of Miss 
Stephens' voice that so deUghted us in Atdd Robin 
Gray. Her woe-begone manner gave a thrilling in- 
terest to that simple ballad. 

The rhythm of a strain has much to do with ex- 
pressing a certain movement. The walking-pace of a 
man is common time, and armies, in vast masses, 
always move to this measure. A horse trots in 
common time, but canters in triple. In Venice, where 
the people are coiistantly moving upon the water, the 
motion of the boat suggests the flowing ease of triple 
time, in which all their celebrated popular airs are 
written. I remember the late Archdeacon Bumaby, 
of Baggrave Hall, delighting me with several he had 
heard in Venice, and which he touched with great 
taste upon the pianoforte. The poet Moore, in his 
Canadian Boat Song has given us a specimen, both in 
words and music, of this graceful motion, regulated by 
the oars : — 

" Bow, brothers, row, the stream runs fast ; 
The rapids are near, and the daylight's past." 



194 



MUSICAL JUDGMENT. 



Chap. 47. 



Music pleases or not as it is well or ill performed. 
The most insipid strains fascinate us when touched by 
the hand of taste. He who has not studied the art, 
on hearing music, receives from it nothing more than 
a simple sensation. A choir of many voices is to him 
but one powerful voice — an orchestra, one great instru- 
ment ; chords, harmony, melody, and the variety of 
instruments, are lost upon him : he hears music and is 
gratified. The dehcate varieties of form in which con- 
sists a great part of the merit of a composition, do not 
exist for persons of this class ; so that if they are less 
offended than artists with the defects of an incorrect 
composition, they are also less touched with the beau- 
ties of a perfect one. The pleasure or indifference 
with which an air or duetto is received, does not al- 
ways depend upon the qualities of the music. The 
dramatic situation has much influence on the effect 
which these pieces produce. To me, the performance of 
8ul aria, in private, is flat and uninteresting. There 
wants the action of the maid, who is assisting her mis- 
tress to write the love-letter, to give it life. On the 
contrary, certain pieces which afford us much pleasure 
in domestic music, with simply a pianoforte accompa- 
niment, displease us at the theatre. As the ear can 
only become skilful by degrees, we should not be 
hasty in judging, but rather distrust our first impres- 
sions. How often have we recalled an unfavourable 
judgment passed upon music which has afterwards 
pleased us ? How frivolous and unmeaning were the ; 



PROGRESSION OF THE ART. 195 

9 

operas of Rossini considered by the admirers of 
Mozart ; yet his airs, by the beauty of their rhythm, 
have found their way into every country on the globe. 
As to Beethoven's music, the critics of the day, whom 
I personally knew, pronoimced it the ravings of a 
madman, and. after hearing it for thirty years, now 
speak of it with wonder and admiration. 

Music has been progressive ever since the time of 
the ancient Greeks, and has always given singular 
delight ; but, of all the arts, it has been the slowest in 
advancing to perfection. At each revolution, it was 
imagined that the limits of the art had been reached, 
and that nothing remained beyond. Music exists 
on emotions, which are more Uvely as they are more 
varied. They are also quickly effaced, and therefore, 
in this art, the necessity of novelty is felt more than in 
any other. Hence, the interest that is taken in 
musical eras, and the enthusiasm they excite. Hence, 
too, the regrets of those who are wedded to music of 
olden date, and their exclamations that music is gone ! 
— ^music is totally ruined! which signifies nothing 
more than that — ^the style of music has been changed. 



196 Chap. 48. 



« « 

• « 



, .CHAPTER XLVIII; 



«OLD 4GE. <>. 



"When alone" — says Lady Ann Lindsay — ^"I 
Biff. nSt above five |Lnd twenty, and forget that I am 
fflxty-ef^t*.- i see myself in the glass «iid loofe vMy 
«ba«unabl7 disappointed, I own, but I feel young at 
.theort-t The- force of this sensation I have felt, and 
am surprised that I am ranked among old men. • Like 
Lady Ann, I find I am a httle changed, when I loek 
in the glass and find not the face oi twenty-fivja, Puz- 
zl^ at' the strangeness <^ the change, I reflect upon 
past events, before. I can reconcile myself to the fact ,. 
tlfiit time really has ittadf this altemtionin me, 

Still, looking upon this changeable world with un- 
diminished pleasure, I say to myself how lucky it is 
that we ilp not often notice the ravages that time is 
constentiy »iaki»g, or how could we bear up'^ainst:. ) 
the reflections which would naturally arise. " Painful, . ' 
indeed, it is to behold in others ! — ^to see tho^e who 
once figured in youth and beauty's train, now bending 
like a withered flower ! It is to the mind, then, we 
must turn fot. real satisfaction. Unimpaired by old 
age, it .gro^s in beauty and p#we^, and is neither in- , 
jured nor defaced by time or sickness. 

Physiologists tell us thjit the ' body is constantly 
undergoing a <^ange ; that no^ person , at ^e^ age of [ 



SONG. 



197 




g 




^W^ 



The morning* of our irest is comt* The 



^^ 



^ 




sun is ^ shining" clear i 1 see it on the steeple top 



Put 



^^^ 




A 




on your shawl my dear 



k'T J I 



T f I r ;b 



J 



And - let us leave the 



! 



^^ 



I 1 > i" T 



smoaky town The dense and 



stag*-. 



nant lane 



m 



^ 



i 



^^ 



I And 



r- 




••1 "^ .« V v. 




take onr children hy the hand' to see the fields a.gain ' . Ive 



rr fif f r-RTf r p i,^. 



f 



]<'S 




I 'J Jjj l lj 




^^ 



pii/d for air the livfltiiigf veek for htneli of new mown 



-'^l^ 



t!ir> 



-^ 



■^ I- 



lit 




conn.. try "Wklk od 




J .[] J j;! I .pjfflu- FiffTi I jti^^ 



r r~ !• 



this fine Sabbath day. 



J J i 




E^^t^ 




your shawl and let as go 1 



^t^ 



^ 





1 

1 







the fiTHss to Hiiv our chiLdren run 



ffL^ 



■I 



m 



^^ 



en run . 



199 




'WHth them gMtK'ring' bnt.f»r__cuj)s or cowslips iii. (he 



r f . i .r f .-^^ 






dtJI ' J Or lisL-ten to the cheerlful soti'ikIk of t]u 

^ ^ I r ^ ! • T -- 




'\^\ \ J pi J ^ Jl i J J J I M 

far off vil__la4>v bell For one day ItnT our 



For one day It 




I ■• 



/ one ditv let us auite foriret the imef that we have known Pbr 




^^^^^^^^ 




U ip i i pi^ w 



^ 



m 



one day let us quite for.gvt the grief that we have 



^ ^=fe 




known the g^ef that we have known For one' day let us 





J 



I 



THE HUMAN FRAME. 201 

I • 

twenty^ has % smgle partiple ;rdn!akiifig in his body 
whigh he had ten years ago. All that he before had 
«]uiB now 'entered intoJiew eombinatioos, farming parts 
of otker men, $nimals, or vegetables, exactly as the 
present body will afterwards be resolved into new 
combinations after death. The mind, however, re- 
mains 4^he same. The bnman^fram^ may be consi- 
dered as a chemical machine, as much so as the steam 
engine, or the quick and wondrous telegraph; but 
though fonned of the like materials and liable to in- 
jury, marvellous to relate, it possesses the power of 
repairing itself ! In fact, man lives and dies every 
twenty-four hours. In the state of sleep, the vitality 
that has been wasted i? replenished by his evening 
metl, aad he wakes, resuscitated for the following day. 
Itf a 'state of natixre, man is the most hdpless of 
bdngs. He ^ has neither clothes to defend him from 
die weather, nor weapons to protect him from the 
attadks of savaffe creatures. But in place of these 
*. CWc Zgi«. him . greater pJL» of taain 
(the electric principle) than to any other animal. 
Henc^ he is endowed .with reason and induction, by 
which he discovers the laws of nature ; and, like a 
demi-god, uses them to rule the world. It can 
acaro0ly'be«aid that man has yet arrived at a state 
of maturity. He has not yet sufficiently informed 
himself how to manage his life and conduct so as to 
live (Hit his full term of years. 

Under a conspiracy of favourable circumstances in 

M 



202 AULD ROBIN GRAY. Chap. 49. 

our infancy, such as food, climate, and instruction, till 
we can think and act for ourselves, it is not too much 
to believe, that a hundred years would be required to 
develop the sum of our powers, and another hundred 
for declining years. Nay, I am rather of Mr. God- 
win's opinion, that the body, under the government 
of a philosophic mind) possibly might last for a thou- 
sand years. 



CHAPTER XLIX. 



AULD BOBIN 6BAY 



In the Lives of the Lindsays there is an interesting 
letter, from Lady Ann Lindsay to Sir Walter Scott, 
calling upon him to convey to the author of Waver^ 
ley (whom she is informed he knows), how grateful 
she feels for the distinguished notice passed upon the 
ballad of AM Bobin Gray, and that he is the first 
person to whom she has imparted the secret of hersdf 
being the author of that long-contested ballad. Her 
ladyship states that Robin Gray was the herdsman 
at their family seat, at Balcarres : — 

** In a melancholy mood I wrote the words to an 
old Scotch melody, of which I was passionately fond. 
To give its plaintive tones some little history of vir- 
tuous distress in humble life, I bethought me of the 
incidents penned in the ballad. While I was writing 



LAND OP POETS. 203 

it, I called to my little sister, Lady Hardwick, and 
said : ' I have been writing a song, my dear. I am 
oppressing my heroine with many misfortnnes. I have 
aheady sent Jamie to sea, and broken her father's 
arm ; made her mother fall sick, and given her Auld 
Robin Gray for a lover ; but I msh to load her with a 
fifth sorrow, poor thing. Help me to one.* * Steal 
the cow, sister Ann,' said Uttle Elizabeth. The cow 
was immediately introduced into the verse. At our 
fireside amongst our friends, Auld Robin Gray was 
often called for. I was pleased with the approbation 
it met with. My dread of being suspected the author 
made me very shy, but I carefully kept my secret." 

Scotland has ever been a land of poets, but cer- 
tainly never a land of musical composers. Like 
Switzerland, their mountains, rocks, and ravines 
return in echoes, the germs of melody we hear in the 
shepherd's song. Their broad Scotch is more favour- 
able to melody, than the narrow English. They 
contrive to discard the consonants which often lock up 
the tones of the voice in our language, but more so in 
the German and in the French, in the nose ; hence, the 
Scotch, for its openness of sound, approaches nearest 
to Italian. Having no instrument but the bagpipe, 
which was left them by the Romans, they never could 
acquire a knowledge of instrumental music. 

While other nations boast of their composers, Scot- 
land has not a single name upon record : nor could I 
find a dozen bars of printed or written music, in the 

m2 



S04 SCOTCH TUNES. Cbap. 49. 

whole countoy. It has ever beeti a mysteiry how the 
Scotch should have acquired a celebrity in their na- 
tural songs, where so little music exists. Perhaps we 
may refer the earliest national music having any claim 
to excellence, to the time of Queen Mary, whose 
elegant Court was in close alliance with that of France. 
The quiet enjoyed by Scotland, as compared with 
the incessant wars that England was engaged in, was 
peculiarly favourable to the sister arts ; and what was 
very remarkable, this period was the Augustan age of 
poetry, nearly the whdie of the Court ladies being 
excellent poets. 

If we refer to Dr. Crotch's Specimens of Scotch 
MelodieSy we find the early attempts at song are rude 
and inelegant ; but as they passed from hand to hand 
in manuscript, tiiey received constant improvanent, 
both in words aaid sounds ; and succeeding ages have 
rubbed off the asperities, which deform the originals. 
The Italian musicians, whom Mary had at her Court, 
caught the vnld notes of the country, and gave them 
rhythm and melody ; atid we may date the best of 
their love-songs from the time of David Rizzio-^ber 
accomplished musician. 

The charm of the ballad lies in the simplicity of the 
thoughts and words being expressed in the most art- 
less notes. It is a composition that every one under- 
stands, and in which every passion of the human breast 
has been poured forth, from the remotest ^e. Perhaps, 
no ballad has been more admired than Atdd Bobin 



FATE OF JAMIE. 205 

Gray, The air to which it has been sung a thousand 
times by Miss Stephens — ^now the Countess of Essex 
— ^no doubt, is English, and is said to be the compo- 
sition of an EngUsh clergyman. Many years afterwards, 
Lady Ann Lindsay wrote a second part, to oblige her 
mother, who teazed her to know the fate of Jamie, who 
had gone to sea. Prom this fragment I have selected 
the following verses, to which I have appended a few 
simple notes : — 

SONG..-(Page 220.) 

" The Spring had passed over ; 

'Twas summer nae mair ; 
And trembling were scattered 

The leaves in the air ; 
O, Winter, says Jenny, 

We kindly agree, 
For the sun it looks wat'ry 

When he shines upon me. 

" Nae question he spaed her 

Concerning her health ; 
He look'd at her often. 

But aye 'twas by stealth ; 
When his heart it grew grit, 

And sickness be lei^ed. 
He gang'd to the door 

To see if it rained. 



<c 



Nae longer she wept, 

Her tears were a' spent ; 
Despair it was come. 

And she thought it content ; 
She thought it content. 

But her cheek it grew pale, 
And ahe.droop'd like a snow-drpp 

Broken down by the hail." 



306 Chap. 50. 

CHAiPTER L. 

MR. COMBE. 

While on the subject of ballads, let me speak of 
some written many years ago, by my friend and fellow- 
townsman, Thomas Combe, Esq., a poet of no ordinary 
talent. Few have surpassed him as a lyric bard. As 
Lady Ann Lindsay, in her Atdd BoUn Gray, has ad- 
mirably described the simple manners of the Scotch, 
so has my friend, in his Ibmiing Physician, hit off 
the spirit of our Leicestershire Foxhunters. He was 
equally happy in his bacchanalian and love songs. The 
taste, however, of Mr. Combe, was refined, and of the 
highest order. The following ballad, my first attempt 
at musical composition, was suggested by him, and 
published by Longman & Broderip, fifty years ago : — 

SONG. 

" In life's ddusive gilded mom, 
When reason just began to dawn, 
The first soft accents I could say, 
In those blest hours were * Well-a-day.' 

" The flEiding flow'r, the drowning fly. 
With pity's tear would fiU my eye ; 
Throw gloom across my sportive way. 
While soft I lisp'd * Ah, well-a-day/ 

** My little heart, not long at ease, 
Soion felt Philander's pow'r to please ; 
And Loye, amid the jocund lay. 
Would often prompt, ' Ah, weU-a-day/ 

" But false and fiaithless prov'd the swain ; 
He left me for the love of gain ; 
Alone and helpless now I stray. 
And sigh for fife, with * Well-a-day.' " 



MR. COVBS. 



207 



Another early production of mine was the Mow- 
ing little song, from a street cry that much interested 
the children of Leicester. An itinerant vender of toys, 
with a musical and plaintive voice, paraded the streets 
with two little wax figures in a bower, representing 
the Babes in the Wood, To this morceau I persuaded 
Mr. Combe to write some lines, of which I made the 
song that was published : — 




Th« BaW in the wood, the Babes in the wood Don*t yon remember the 




Babes in the woed. 



When a child on the knee, how 




I 



#^ 



m 



i J Pr ^^i :iitE7^ ^ 



aOent Fd be while my mother re-la-ted the eto-iy to me. 



I 





Da Capo. 



208 MR. COMBS. Chap. 50. 

SONG. 

• 

" THe Babes in the Wood ! 

The Babes in the Wood ! 
Don't you remember the Babes in the Wood? 

When a Child on the knee 

How silent I'd be, 
While my Mother related the story to me, 

Of the Babes in the Wood, &c. 

" My Dear, you must know, 

That a long time ago. 
There were two little children, whose names I don't know. 

Who were stolen away, 

On a fine summer's day, 
And left in a Wood, as I've heard the folks say. 

Poor Babes, &c. 

" And when it grew night, 

0, sad was their plight ; 
The sun it had set, and the moon gave no light : 

They sobb'd and they sigh'd, 

And bitterly cry'd ; , 

Then, poor little things, they lay down and died. 

Poor Babes, &c. 

** A Eobin so red. 

When he saw them lie dead, 
Brought strawberry leaves, and over them spread ; 

Then all the day long. 

The branches among. 
He'd prettfly whistle, and this was his song — 

Poor Babes, &c." 

The Hunting Physician well ponrtrays the enthu- 
siasm felt by many of my mescal friends, and 1 have 
often heard it sung with great animation and zest :— 



HUNTIKO PHYSICIAN. 209 

SONG. 

" Come, all ye good people, 
I pi^y you attend. 
This is no common song, 
As you'll find in the end. 
I'm a hunting Physician, 
And cure what ye wiU, 
Be it ever so bad. 
Without bolus or pill. 

" Let the man who's disturb'd 
By fortune or care. 
Away to the woodlands 
And vallies repair. 
" Let him hear but the sound 
Of the fall-swelling horn ; 
The hounds in full cry. 
And his troubles are gone. 



(C 



All ye lovers, who secretly 

Simper and sigh. 
And droop at the frown 

Of a blue or Uack eye ; 
Brush up to them bddly, 

And try them again. 
For women love sportsmen. 

And sportsmen love them. 



" Ye, poor forlorn devils. 

Who are plagued with the hip, 
And thus the sweet moment 

Of pleasure let slip, 
As soon as the whimsies 

Totir fancy suirounds, 
Jump into your saddle, 

And follow the hounds. 



210 TIPPLII96 DXITUS. Chap. 50. 



cc 



(C 



<( 



If you cbimoe to be plagued 

Wjth a tennagant wife. 
Who, instead of a joy, 

Is the plague of your life ; 
When madam her small shot 

Begins to let go. 
Why, pull on your boots 

And away, TdUy-ho, 

Now, all ye old codgers. 

Whose nenres are unstrung, 
G^ after the hounds. 

And hunt yourselves young ; 
'Twill cure the short cough, 

The rheumatic pain. 
Do but cry * Tally-ho P 

And you're all young again. 

If Death, that old poacher. 

To smuggle you tries ; 
Get astride of your gelding. 

And hunt for your lives ; 
Ne'er heed his grim looks, 

While your hunter can go. 
You'll never be nabbed. 

While you cry * TdO/y-ho: " 



The following clever and spirited stanzas are ex- 
tracted fipom the song, The Tippling Deities, which 
consists of fourteen verses, equally good : — 



SONG. 

Attend, gentle Sirs, to a sonneteer terrestrial, 
Who sings something new about matters celestial ; 
'Tis aU by way of joke, and he therefore hopes no sin it is, 
To meddle with the private tricks of tippling divinities. 



« 



MR. COVBB. 211 

" 'Twoold do you good to peep, when these folks are meny-making, 
To see how very kindly each his bumper is taking ; 
Till Jove, the mighty chairman nods, and Fhoebus falls a snoring. 
And Momus, with his laughing crew, some meny catch are roaring. 



<c 



<« 



The Gk>ddebse8 themselves, too, with all their mighty merits, 
Loye a little drop of cordial, now and then to raise the spirits, 
Whidi makes their pretty faces glow, and look more red and rosier 
Than if they tippled nothing else but simple Ambrosia. 

Among the rest there's heaven's Queen, will tipple late and early. 
And when her husband Jove's from home, she's sober very rarely ; 
She has taught it all the household, too, and e'en the maids of 

honour 
Are come to such a pass that they will take it in a comer. 

I think I've brought you proof enough, and precedent to show. Sir, 
They drink as much above stairs, as we do below. Sir ; 
WeU, let them drink ; tho' I'm not there, I'll ne'er repine or 

murmur. 
While I can meet such friends as you below on terra fimui** 

The last I shall quote is a song that describes a 
poor feUow I well knew, who fell over head and ears 
in love with a lady, who, with much hauteur, sUghted 
his humble passion. Wliat a strange thing is love ! 
For the life of me, I could never perceive the charms 
in the lady that so captivated my friend. He was a 
man of sense, and had a taste for the beautiful. But the 
lady was not highly endowed either with wit or grace : 
she was fond of show, though a person of acknow- 
ledged good sense in our Leicester circles. How often 

> 

do we admire in others, what we know to be deficient 
in ourselves. Studious men marry flirts — ^the very 
opposite character to their own. I was really con- 



212 SOBER C0UET8HIP. Chap. 50. 

oemed for my companion, and tried to jeer him out of 
the delusion, but the impression was too deep to be 
removed. A settled melancholy came over him, the 
tone of which, expressed in the following verses, I 
have endeavoured to heighten by a few simple notes : 

SONG.— (Page 286.) 

" 0, would oblivion's cHlling hand. 
My hapless passion smother ; 
And o'er me wave her magic wand, 
Por Lucy loves another. 

" 0, lead me to the festive bower, 
Let wine and music charm me ; 
I'll scorn bewitching beauty's power, 
She ne'er again shall charm me." 

It is not desirable for a man to remain all his life 
confined to the same society ; it often causes peculiar 
habits and a morbid state of mind, not readily got rid 
of in after-life. My love-^ick friend, who was an ac- 
complished scholar, had an offer to accompany a 
young gentfenum of fortune, who was going abroad, 
which I pressed him to acc^. The shifting scenes 
and novelties in the countries through which they 
passed^ drove out of his mind all his peculiarities^ and 
in a year hd returned quite a new creature. The lady 
who had so much disturbed his peace, he now foimd 
to be notihing more than a sensible, agreeable person ; 
for she had lost her hauteur, and he his mamaiae 
honte. They oommenced a sober courtship^ whidi 
ended in a happy marriage, fulfilling the piredictioHs 
of the ballad : — 



FRENCH REVOLUTION. 213 

" Sly Cupid heard the youth ooiiq[>lam, 
And urged him not to mind her ; 
For Lucy soon would love again, 
And treat his passion kinder. 

" Love kept his word ; the yielding lass 
Look'd kind when Colin met ha.; 
^Vlo, raptojred, thxew away his glass. 
And swoie he'd ne'er forget her." 

These songs are but a few specimens of our Lei- 
cester bard. I possess several more in MS., all of 
which are marked with the same ingenuity and taste. 



CHAPTER LI. 

THE FRENCH REVOLUTION. 

The most important event which has occurred in 
my life-time, and one in which the greatest interests 
of mankind were involved, was the French revolu- 
tion. It was no part of my intention in this desultory 
performance to meddle with a subject so vast and in- 
dicate, but it has left upon my mind a series of pic- 
tures so strange and grand, that I cannot help touch- 
ing upon this frightful story. 

When the revolution broke out I was nineteen years 
old. I read, with deep interest, the accoimts as they 
arrived from day to day. At that time, news travelled 
at so slow a pace, and was so costly, that few persons 



214 LEfTRES DE CACHET. Chap. 51. 

were acquainted with the passing events. A letter 
from London cost ninepence, and, with an inclosure, 
one shilling and sixpence. There were two London 
daily papers — The Star, a Whig paper ; 1^ Cmmer, 
a Tory paper. These were read with the greatest 
interest by the Liberal politicians at the Billiard News 
Eooms, in the Market-place. The Tory party met at 
the Sir Thomas JFkite, kept by the historian, 
Throsby. We Liberals were elated with the success 
of the revolution, while the Tories, who seemed to 
rely upon the revolt being put down by the sword, 
were utterly dismayed by the rapid succession of 
great events. The working classes, after the close of 
the American war, were busy in the revival of trade, 
and cared little about what was passing. France was 
then upon the verge of bankruptcy. Louis XVI., 
who hated England for her free institutions, unwit- 
tingly sent his able General, the Marquis de la Fayette, 
to assist the Americans against the mother country, 
where he learnt more Republicanism than the use of 
arms. 

Peace was concluded with America in 1788 ; but 
not till the winter 1788 (which was a very severe one), 
did the distresses of the French rise to such a height 
that they could no longer be borne. The privileged 
orders, the nobility and clergy, who paid no taxes, 
levied them upon the people without mercy. The 
Zettres de cachet, by which persons of character were 
torn from their fieimilies without accusation or crime^ 



MIRABEAU. 215 

and the game laws that gave the noblesse power to 
hang poachers on their estates, without judge or jury, 
exasperated the people, and they called upon the king 
to assemble the States General^ i.e. the nobles, the 
dergy, and the house of representatives, to redress 
their grievances. This was not listened to, and the 
people met of themselves. The king became alanaed. 
went to the hall, and promised to consider their 

complaints the next • day. My Mend C was in 

Paris at the time, and informed me that the King, ap- 
prehending a disturbance, had assembled one hundred 
and sixty thousand troops round Versailles, where the 
deputies sat. It was too plain that the soldiers sym- 
pathised with the people, and they could not be depen- 
ded upon. 

The following day, the king went to the hall, where 
his speech was hstened to with gloomy silence. He 
left, and they were ordered by the master of the 
ceremonies to depart. The Ck)unt Mirabeau, in a loud 
commanding tone, got up and said : — " You have no 
voice or seat in this place. Go and tell your master 
that we are here by the voice of the people, and 
nothing but the bayonet shall expel us." Carpenters 
were sent in to take down the platform and interrupt 
the proceedings. The deputies, however, kept their 
seats, with Mirabeau at their head, and declared their 
sitting permanent. 

The next day (Sunday, July 12th, 1789), all Paris 
was alarmed and in motion. My friend was walking 



^^^m^^m^^^^ III I I III m^^mmmm^mfnr»~-w' — r— j 



216 THE BASTIUiE. Chap. 51. 

in the gardeiis of the Luxembourg, and was close to 
Camille Desmoulins when he jumped on an orange 
woman's table, and cried, '' To arms, to arau; ! The king 
has dismissed Necker, the people's minister. Troops are 
about to enter Paris to put us dowu by the sword/' 
The population rose ; and next day, forty thousand 
people appeared in arms, with what weapons they 
GQuld find. 

On Tuesday morning, July -14, this phajianx re- 
paired to the BastilL^, to demand the release of some 
of their leaders. They were fired upon. They in- 
stantly flew to the Invalides, brought the cannon, 
and, luckily shot away the draw-bridge ; and my 
friend saw the heads of the Governor and the Arch- 
bishop of Paris brought out, stuck upon two long 
poles, which they paraded through the streets. 

Upon this, the House of Representatives, or Tier^ 
Mat, which was then sitting, instantly declared than- 
selves the National Assembly. Mirabeau was i^- 
pointed President ; BaiUy, the great astronomer, was 
made Mayor of Paris ; and La Fayette was placed at 
the head of the military. The king, though now too 
late, went to the Assembly, sat next the President, and 
confirmed their decrees, upon which Bailly put the 
tri-cploured cockade in his hat ; the National Guard 
reversed their arms and shouted, " Five le Bm ;" and 
and all became quiet. The old government burst 
like a bubble, and disappeard without a drop of blood 
being spilt, except on taking the Bastijlle. Thus began 



aiH 



8 o N a. 



' ^f ji ■' J iJ',i- J'J i J. r.i •' J I 

•J ■ A lone_-ly bache«J<ir am 1 ^1 live Tip— 




SONG. 



21f» 




IM, J J | J J ;j^^ 

bf sprUig' had pa«KH oL^yer tvas summtT nae 




mair And trembling' were scatterd^ the leav es in the 

M 






J^r^:^^^ 




O wln.ter says 



Jenny we Mind.ly a 



'r\^\ri 'I 





.g^ree For the sun .it looks watry when he shines irp.on 




jnj^^i^J. i^ 




me For the svn ke looks watry when he shines ap.on 

J ^ M III 



■A 




i^i j iift ^ n^rf 




I 



FLEMISH TROOPS. " 221 

the revolution ; and we in England rejoiced to see half- 
a dozen men of intelligence boldly step forward to 
preserve order, and save the country from anarchy. 

Bailly and Mirabeau at once proposed that the 
Assembly should be designated the Constituent As- 
sembly, to form a government for France, and that they 
should take the English constitution as a guide, namely, 
to be a Hmited monarchy, with a senate and house of 
representatives. Mirabeau said, though he him- 
self belonged to the order of nobility, yet he did not 
think the forty-nine nobles who had not fled, were 
men of sufficient weight and talent to form the senate/ 
This was imanimously agreed to, even by those of the 
old regime, and this branch of the constitution was 
deferred for the present. 

Everything went on smoothly till the sixth of 
October, when the Royal family gave a banquet to the 
Flemish troops at Versailles. The dinner was laid in 
the theatre of the Palace. The Queen, unadvisedly, 
went to enjoy the sight, and was discovered in a 
latticed box. Cries of "The Queen ! the Queen !" re- 
sounded from the excited soldiery. Flattered by this 
mark of affection, she descended, and passed round 
the table. The band sttuck up the well known afr, 
0, Bichardy 0, mon Hot — "O, Richard, my king, all the 
world is forsaking thee." Excited by a feeling of loyalty, 
heightened by champagne, the troops trampled the 
tri-coloured cockade under foot, and replaced it with 
the white one. 

N 



222 VEESAILLBS. Cliap. 51. 

Never was anything more unfortunate A counter 
revolution was the cry which ran through Paris, and 
this at the very time the people wanted bread. Hunger 
whets everything. They rose with violence, crying 
out "To Versailles! to Versailles t" On arriving 
th^e, a crowd of fish-women rushed into the Assem- 
bly, calling out " Bread," and " Down with the 
Guards who have insulted the national cockade." La 
Fayette fortunately arrived with the National Guards, 
and allayed the tumult. 

The King, who conducted himself with mildness 
and forbearance, spoke to the multitude, and, seeing 
that La Fayette had saved the body-guard from being 
torn to pieces by the women, offered to accompany 
the mob to Paris. The cry then was for " The Queen." 
La Fayette prevailed upon her to appear in the bal- 
cony, which she did, with her two children in tears, 
in dread of being shot, when she heard the cry from 
the Poissardes, '' Madame^ our Queen, don't be a trai' 
tor any morey and we wiU love you /" On this she 
joined the King, to accompany him to Paris. 

On their march, the National Guard went first, 
with loaves stuck on their bayonets. The Guard 
Royal marched bare-headed, flanked by a thousand 
women. The Assembly had arrived in Paris, and 
kept order by the promise of a constitution like that 
of England. 

The masses had now got the p6wer in their own 
hands. Out of this unhappy affair at Versailles re- 



JACOBIN CLUB. 223 

suited the mobs that filled the galleries of the As- 
sembly, and overawed some of their best determina- 
tions. Then arose the clubs, which had still greater 
influence upon the proceedings of the Assembly. The 
Jacobin club at first consisted of not more than a 
dozen Deputies, who afterwards admitted persons of 
similar sentiments, though not Deputies. I recollect 
dining in Leicester at the time with an eminent bar- 
rister of our Midland Circuit, who was then a mem- 
,ber of this club, and who afterwards rose to the high- 
est legal dignity in this country. These clubs, by 
their violent measures, harassed the Assembly as 
much on one side as the Royalists on the other, who 
would not admit of any reform whatever. Their 
motto was, " Tout ou rien.'' For a season, this strife 
gave way to the national fete, in commemoration of 
the taking of the Bastille, which was promised to the 
people the next July 14th, 1790. 

Ladies of fashion, noblemen, statesmen, monks, 
and people of all ranks, volunteered with spades, 
pickaxes, and wheelbarrows, to raise in the Champ 
de Mars an altar upon which the nation was to swear 
tx) the new constitution. Though it poured with rain 
the whole of the day, their enthusiasm was not in the 
least abated. The air resounded with a hundred thou- 
sand voices and instruments, singing the national air, 
Cfe ira, which was afterwards heard in our English 
theatres. 

I, with others, rejoiced at this (as we thought) 

N 2 



224 THE king's flight. Chap. 52. 

happy termination. I composed a hymn to mark the 
event, called the Champ de Mars. It was much song 
at the time, and may be found in many chapels at the 
present day. " The event was hailed as the day-spring 
of Uberty, in which a great and noble nation had at 
once assumed the attitude, language, and spirit of a 
free people." * 



CHAPTER LIL 



THE king's plight. 



The Assembly went steadily on enacting benefi- 
cent laws, when, as they were about to close their 
arduous task, symptoms were discovered that the 
Queen meant to get away from Paris. The Guards 
about the Palace were doubled, and every precaution 
taken to prevent it. 

The Marquis Bouille was entrusted with planning 
the escape. The King uniformly objected to make 
the attempt, and urged upon the Queen the impos- 
sibility of success. Early in June, 1791, however, 
the Queen went in person to make some arrangements 
in the Palace, so as to get access to a private stab- 
case, and ordered a new key to the do(n: of communi- 
cation, by which she afterwards descended. The 
Baroness Korff, one of her ladies, through the 

* Sir Walter Scott. 



d'agout. 225 

Russian Ambassador, procured a duplicate passport 
for the one she pretended to have lost.* The 19th of 
June was the night fixed upon, and relays of horses 
had been ordered at the different posts. Two of the 
Life Guards had been provided with courier dresses, 
and the count Tersin was disguised as coachman : but 
above all, Bouille had engaged the Marquis D'Agout, 
a man of great presence of mind, to direct the pro- 
ceedings on the road. On the night fixed upon, the 
lady who had the care of the Dauphin was taken ill, 
and the Queen found it necessary to put off the expe- 
dition to the following night, the 20th. There was 
not time to advise others of the alteration. A greater 
mishap, was the following : — ^Madame Tourzel, who 
had the care of the children, as a matter of etiquette, 
would not give up her place in the carriage to the 
Marquis D'Agout, so that he was left behind. The 
Queen Inanaged well with the King, and was actually 
seen on foot, disguised in an enormous hat, as she 
passed the carriage of La Fayette. They lost their 
way, and had to retrace their steps in the garden of 
t)ie TuU^es. The King's shoe came unbuckled, 
which he adjusted close to a sentinel, and luckily was 
unobserved. Much time was consumed before they 
arrived at the spot where the carriages were stationed. 
They had scarcely got three miles out of Paris when 
the coach broke down, and it was an hour before it 
could be repaired. At Chalons, they changed horses. 

* This was required for the other carriage. 



226 DROUET. Chap. 52. 

One of the townspeople thought he knew the King, 
and went to the Mayor, who, luckily was not disposed 
to enquire into the matter, and pacified the man. 
When they arrived at the bridge* of Someville, they 
expected to find the Due de Choiseul and his detach- 
ments of horse, but no one appeared. '' All is lost," 
said the Queen to Madame Ehzabeth. It appeared 
afterwards, that Choiseul was at his post. He ex- 
pected a courier to precede the King. He waited 
three hours and was obliged to move away, to prevent 
alarm. When they came to Menhould, Vallory could 
not find ' the post-house : this drew a crowd together. 
The King, instead of keeping himself concealed, sat, 
with his head at the window, uneasy at the delay. 
Drouet, the post-master thought he knew the Queai, 
and compared her with a portrait upon some assignats 
he had taken that morning. He communicated with a 
friend, and while they hesitated, the carriage drove 
away. Drouet recollected that the Courier enqi^red 
the road for Varennes. They mounted their horses 
and pursued the fogkives by taking a short ctobs 
road. The King arrived at Varennes, and stopped at 
the post house, which he well knew. He knocked^ 
and enquired for the horses, but no one knew any- 
thing about them. The King and Queen got out of 
the carriage to enquire ; but alas ! there was no 
Marquis D'Agout. They wandered about for intelli- 
gence, and learnt that there was an inn at the further 
end oi the town, where their horses actually were. 



THE KING STOPPED. 227 

The post boys refased to go further, as the horses 
were tired. In this perplexity, Sausse, the procureur, 
a tallow chandler, came up and demanded their pass- 
ports, which he found right ; but having some sus- 
picion, and as they could not go on without fresh 
horses, he prevailed upon them to alight, and cross 
the Market-place to his house, tiU the horses could bef 
procured. He set some bread and cheese before 
them. The King said he never drank better wine 
in his life. The Queen soon discovered that they 
were stopped, and all was lost ! Sausse kept going 
out, and returning under pretence of hastening the 
horses, but was really collecting a force to secure his 
guests. In the meantime, Drouet had arrived and 
caused a waggon to be overturned on the bridge, so 
that it was impossible either for the carriages to go on, 
or for the Hussars, who were at the far inn, to come 
to their assistance. When all was effected, the 
tocsin sounded, and the villages poured iq five thou- 
sand National Guards. The general tumult had 
roused the officers of the Hussars who had gone to 
bed ; they did not reach the King till four hours after 
he had been made prisoner, and they narrowly 
escaped with their lives. La Fayette's Aide-de-Camp 
brought the Assembly's decree. The King read it 
hastily, and said, throwing it on the bed where the 
children lay, "Then there is no longer a King in 
France!'* The Queen snatched it up, saying "It 
shall not soil my children," and threw it on the 



228 king's address. Chap. 58. 

ground. Turning round to Romeuf, she said, " And 
is it you ? " " Better than another, Madame," repKed 
the officer. " You know Madame, I respect you, as 
does my general." '" Oh, he'' said the Queen; ''he 
has nothing in his head but his American Republic.^' 
The most agonising moment, however, was on their 
setting off for Paris. Surely, there never was a more 
ill-£Etted expedition ! 



CHAPTER LIII. 

DAY APTEE THE FLIGHT. 

The departure of the Royal famfly was early an- 
nounced to the Assembly. Their demeanour was calm' 
and dignified, and apparent grief was upon the coun- 
tenances of the people, who crowded in the squares. 
Couriers were despatched in every direction to seize 
and stop all persons leaving the kingdom ; and it was 
ordered that the acts of the minister under the great 
seal should have all the force of law. 

The King had left behind him a written address, 
in which he complained of his captivity ; and at the 
moment the Assembly were preparing a reply to this 
document, a cry ran through the hall, " He is taken ! 
he is taken !" A surgeon from Vardennes appeared at 
the bar^ with letters from the magistrates of that town. 



THOMAS PAINE. 229 

detailing the fact. Three Commissioners were in- 
stantly charged to go and protect the royal family 
back to Paris. Four days were they on the road, 
covered with dust, and exposed to the insults of the 
people. The King was touched with the attention of 
the conunissioners. When they met, he disclaimed any 
idea of quitting the kingdom. 

At seven o'clock in the evening they arrived. 
The multitudes were forbidden to take off their hats 
by La Fayette, or show any of the accustomed marks 
of respect. An open chariot followed adorned with 
laurels, in which sat the three National Guards who 
stopped the King. As they arrived at the Palace, which 
was to be their prison, the people burst into repeated 
shouts of " The law, the law." When the pubhc con- 
sternation had subsided, the feeling was universally 
that of indignation. 

A Republican party instantly arose, in opposition 
to the Constitutionalists. Among their addresses was 
the following from the Enghshman, Thomas Paine, 
which had a great effect. " The perfect tranquilKty 
that remained amongst us, during the flight of the 
King; and the profound indifference with which we 
saw him brought back, are unequivocal signs, that the 
absence of a Eang is better than his presence. He is 
not only a superfluity, but a useless weight that 
presses upon us"! Louis, when interrogated by 
the commissioners, said he was not afraid to explain 
the motives of his flight ; but was not prepared to 



230 DUKE OF ORLEANS. Gliap. 53. 

give any opinion upon the constitution. He acknow- 
ledged to have discovered^ since he had left Paris, 
that the people were in &vour of the new government, 
on which point he was not previously convinced. He 
would gladly forget all he had suffered, to insure the 
happiness of the nation. This disastrous step had at 
once destroyed the labour of the Assembly during 
the previous year. The government was no longer a 
monarchy ; it was in effect, a RepubUc ; and a power- 
M party was rising, who were strenuous advocates 
of this form of government. ' However, there were 
many in the Assembly who adhered to the King, and 
considered his flight, pardonable! Others were for 
placing the Dauphin on the throne ; but the Jacobins, 
Robespierre and Danton, called loudly for accusation 
and trial. 

Seven committees were appointed to consider the 
present state of the nation, and a report was made, 
piuch to the indignation of the violent party, that the 
flight was 7U) crime, and the King's reinstatement was 
proposed. The various clubs urged the Jacobins to 
get up a petition, or rather to require the Assembly 
to receive the abdication of Louis, as a perjured, fugi- 
tive traitor, stating they would never acknowledge 
him for King, without the approbation of the nation. 
Another party, secretly in favour of placing the Duke 
of Orleans on the throne, called upon the Assembly 
to pass judgment on the traitor. The Abbe Sieyes, 
in the midst of this contention, tried to shape a new 



KING ACCEPTS THE CONSTITUTION. 281 

course of proceedings, still retaiiung the King at the 
head of the nation; but, extraordinary as it may 
q>p«r, m popodtion ^ vidently o^ by Z 
Royalists. They clung to the idea that chance, or 
the assistance of the King's brothers who had fled, 
might restore the old regime. They would have all 
or nothing, and threw every obstacle in the way of 
those who were most anxious to save the monarchy. 
The Repubhcan portion of the Assembly foimd the 
Constitutionalists too strong for them, and aUied them- 
selves with the clubs out of doors. The Jacobins re- 
quired the Assembly to accept the King's abdication. 
As this was unheeded, an insurrection took place, in 
the Champ de Mars. La Fayette and Bailly called 
out the Military, and put in force the riot act, whidi 
had just been introduced from England. This was 
quite justifiable, though several persons were unhap- 
pily killed. 

The Constitutionalists called upon the court party, 
with the clergy, to join them agamst the Republicans ; 
but unless they could return to the old government, 
they preferred to risk the downfall of the monarchy. 
The RepubUcans could not dethrone the King, they 
were prevented by La Fayette and Bailly. However, 
the King at last was persuaded to accept the Con- 
stitution, which he swore to maintain at home, and 
defend from all attacks from abroad. The Assembly 
ordered a proclamation of the new code (a limited 
monarchy), and called upon the people to reverence 



232 LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY. Chap. 54. 

what had no hold upon their affections. The King 
and Qaeen now ventured once more to show them- 
selves in public. The Constitutional Assembly was 
now at an end, being superseded by the Legislative 
Assembly, and the illuminations and rejoicings in 
Paris were universal. 

" Thus terminated," says one of the old court, " this 
guilty Assembly, whose vanity, ambition, iagratitude, 
ignorance, and audacity, have overturned the noblest 
and most ancient monarchy in Europe." " On the 
other hand," says one of the moderate party, 
" spite of the faults the Assembly may be reproached 
with, under the circumstances they found themselves 
placed, history cannot show us so much of good done, 
in so short a time. Torture was abolished, jurispru- 
dence established, religious liberty acknowledged, and 
made safe, besides feudal rights abolished, and 
equality of taxation made the law of the land." 



CHAPTER LIV. 



THE SECOND CONSTITUTION. 



The Legislative Assembly arose in the midst of 
confusion and contending passions. The RepubUcans 
were increasing, the old Courtiers were flying to the 
emigrants on the Rhine, the King had accepted the 
constitution, under the Brissotine monarchy, with an 



WAR DECLARED AGAINST THE ALLIES. 233 

ardent desire of preventing the shedding of blood. 
He sent a state paper professing peace to all the 
Courts, in which it was observed, that the assem- 
bling of armies in the neighbouring electorates greatly 
raised his apprehensions, that the foreign powers in- 
tended to interfere with the internal affairs of France. 
He desired an explicit answer. The following was the 
reply of the Emperor of Germany and the King of 
Prussia : — " That they had robbed the King of France 
of his Uberty ; they had stopped him and taken him 
prisoner in his own dominions. He must be rein- 
instated, and the Jacobiu faction put down." The 
King of France repHed, " Every nation has the right 
of giving itself laws, and altering them at pleasure, 
and that could not be a subject of discussion." A 
satisfactory explanation was still demanded. No 
further communications took place, and the French 
declared war against the Emperor of Germany and 
the King of Prussia. 

The determination was received with unbounded 
transport by the Parisians. Two decrees instantly 
followed ; that a camp of twenty-thousand men should 
be formed round Paris, and that those priests who re- 
fused to subscribe to the new Constitution, should be 
proscribed. 

Louis trembled at the war he had proclaimed, 
and secretly sent a young Swiss ofBcer, Mallet du 
Pan, disguised as a linen draper, to implore the allies 
not to commence a war, in which his own life, and 



234 INFATUATED QUEEN. Chap. 54. 

also those of his family, would be endangered. 
However, this was not listened to ; the allies and emi- 
grants, without hesitation, abandoned the King, and 
determined to conquer the country, and place a 
Regent on the throne. During these negotiations the 
King had used his veto, and had not given his 
sanction to the two decrees already mentioned, which 
raised a suspicion that the King was in communi- 
cation with the foreign powers. An insurrection 
was planned to compel the King's signature. A 
hundred thousand people, headed by Santerre, the 
brewer, on Jime 20th, marched upon the Tuileries, 
armed with what weapons they could find. They 
swept everything before them like a torrent, and 
filled all the courts and gardens of the Palace, crying 
out " Down with the veto and the Queen," who, in- 
fatuated, influenced the King against the people. 
The multitudes were pressed forward by those behind, 
and everything was borne down and destroyed in their 
course. Petion the Mayop, a great favourite with the 
mob, arrived in time to save the Uves of the royal 
family. He persuaded the King to appear in the 
balcony and speak to the people, which he did with 
the utmost calmness, promising his assent. Petion 
put the red cap of liberty on the King's head, which 
called forth shouts of " Five le Boiy and he drew the 
nujb away ^nthout farther mischief . 

The Duke of Brunswick's manifesto had just 
arrived, " That he would come and lay Paris in ashes, 



THE MARSEILLOISE. 235 

and put every man, woman, and child, to the sword, 
if they did not instantly submit to the King and the 
old government. This inflamed to madness thousands 
who were eager to be marched to the frontiers. The 
King's signature had not yet been obtained, and the 
Jacobins determined to call the Federes, from the 
provinces. Five hundred enthusiasts marched up 
from Marseilles to Paris, headed by Barbaroux, to 
join the Parisians, and dethrone the King, singing a 
hynm to Uberty, now well know as the MarsieUoise 
Hymn, by Gretry. * These united voices and mihtary 
bands Med the air with such thrilling sounds that 
raised aU France. Perhaps music was never known to 
have inspired a nation in so manreUous a way. 

Yergniaud and the Brissotines, seeing that the 
King's life was in danger, pressed him to quit the 
Palace for the Assembly, the only place of safety. 
"No, never," said the Queen, "will I enter their 
place." However, they were conducted away by 
force, and crammed into the reporters' box, behind the 
President's chair. They were confined sixteen hours, 
the mob supposing them to be in the Palace. 

At seven o'clock in the morning, the report of can- 
non was heard. This distressed the King, as he had 
ordered the Swiss Guards not to fire on the people. 
The King was h^jngry at his usual time, and had wine 
and viands presented him. He ate heartily, as if re- 

Vide first vol. Page 48. 



236 * DANTON MADE DICTATOR. Chap. 54. 

turned from hunting. In him the physical over- 
powered the mental. The Queen refused to taste 
anything, and suffered unspeakable degradation. The 
roar of the cannon was still heard in the attack on the 
Palace, made by the Marseilloise, crying "Down with the 
Swiss Guards" ! seven hundred of whom courageously 
defended it. They were not aware that the King had 
left for the Assembly, or they would not have stood 
to be mowed down by thirty pieces of cannon. Be- 
sides these unfortunate fellows, there were a hundred 
nobles and gentlemen, who had rushed into the apart- 
ments (as they thought) to defend the King, all of 
whom were butchered and torn to pieces by the mob. 

Not less than seven hundred Swiss, three hundred 
gentry and nobles, and five thousand of the populace 
were slaughtered on this fatal day. When I was in 
Paris, some ten years afterwards, I saw written in large 
letters, " The lOth of August," where the cannon-shot 
had shattered the building. The Assembly had no 
means of putting a stop to these scenes of guilt and 
horror. 

The commune of Paris now became the sovereign 
power, under Danton, TaUien, and Robespierre. On 
the 17th of August, the revolutionary tribunal was 
established. The king was suspended and removed, 
in close custody, to the Temple. Danton, the leader 
of the Cordeliers, was made Dictator. The former 
ministry, who had honestly done their duty, were 
thrown into prison, with not less (it is supposed) than 



Jd38 



SONG. 




'^^M^§^ 



■t^. - 




with humble vows men first be » gin 



„ see>i in_ito the heart 



But by pc>s_jBes_sion 




set- .tied in^ thty quidk_Jy act a no__therpart 



a_ 





Indians do our toldeu store Di8___co ver na tures 



inaians a 




r\ chest ii(iine and yet (he Tyrants will have 



^NV. 




^S9 




court or yon be won 



For love is but dis_. 







I 



LA PAYETTE JOINS THE ALLIES. 241 

twelve thousand of the moderate party. The allied 
forces were now entering France^ with eighty thousand 
men, in two cdumns. Longwy was suddenly taken, 
which exasperated the National Assembly, and they 
decreed its re-capture ; that the houses of the persons 
concerned in the surrender should be razed to the 
ground, and the inhabitants put to death. Three 
commissioners were sent to the armies to remove all 
suspected officers. La Fayette was more a citizen 
than a soldier, and depended more upon the power of 
law than the enthusiasm of troops. He was not a 
man to obey the ferocious Jacobins. He would have 
arrested the commissioners, but he foimd the temper 
of his men to accord with the Republicans, upon which 
he thought it prudent to go over to the allies. Du- 
mouriez, who had shown an accurate judgment in the 
Council, stood high in the estimation of all parties. 
He had been the King's friend, and deplored his mis- 
fortunes, but saw that he could not serve him, and 
that his own road to power was through the battle- 
field. The tardy generals had been removed, and he 
was placed at the head of the armies. On the 26th 
of August, Dumouriez laid the plan of the campaign, to 
repair the loss of Longwy. He drew as near to him 
as he could, Luckner, Kellerman, and Dillon (a Scotch- 
man), with their small detachments, to oppose the 
aUies. The approach of the Duke of Brunswick he 
warded oflF, by a peculiar novelty in his tactics, which 
checked that General in his rapid career. The King 

o 



242 THE ALLIES BEATEN. Chap. 55. 

oi Prussia attacked Kelkrman's wing, and was so 
effectually met by the flying artillery of the French, 
that he was driven back in the greatest confusion* 
EeUerman leaped from his horse, and waving his hat 
on high, on the point of his sword, thundered through 
the ranks, " Vive la Nation'' and eight hundred were 
left dead on tlie field. The Due de Chartres, then a 
young Republican, afterwards Louis Philippe, headed 
the horse artillery with a tricoloured flag. The shouts 
of the French resounded from the neighbouring hillifi 
as the aUies retreated. At this moment news arrived 
that the RepubUc was established in Paris, which 
was received by the defenders of the country with 
loud acclamations of " Fine la Nation!' 



CHAPTER LV. 



THE BEFUBLIC. 



France was now with a dethroned king, a refiigee 
nobflity in arms against her, and a deposed clergy; 
but they were roused to wonderful exertions by the 
thunder of Danton's voice. " We Republicans," said 
he, " are between two fires ; the enemy without, and 
the Royalists within. We will strike terror into 
those at home, and roll the masses of Paris upon the 
despots abroad." 

The mandate for the massacres, had gone forth. 



MASSACRES. 243 

The Abbaye, the Chatelet, and seven other prisons, 
had been crowded for months with aristocratic priests, 
doomed to be massacred en masse. Those who were 
employed in this bloody work wore the red sash and 
bonnet rouge. Their appearance made the stoutest 
heart tremble. They descended into cellars, groped 
under roofs in search of their victims, whom they 
drew out by two and three at a time, and beheaded 
on the spot. Such were the numbers put to death, 
that the first three days of September were employed 
in clearing the prisons. Among the victims were the 
Bishops of Aries, Dulan, Beauvais, and Rochefoucauld. 
The slaughtered were thrown into pits, and quick lime 
poured in upon them. Such were the horrible atro- 
cities committed by Marat and Danton, who, when 
they saw the kennels red with blood, exclaimed, " The 
country is saved." 

During this reign of terror, Dumouriez was driv- 
ing one hundred thousand of the allies back into 
Germany. He made an attqck upon the whole line 
of the Austrian forces, near Mons, dislodging them from 
the strong position of Janappe with great slaughter, 
and the loss of one hundred pieces of cannon, Here 
the young Due de Chartres (afterwards Louis Philippe), 
performed wonders with the flying artillery. Du- 
mouriez was now marching from conquest to conquest 
in a direction to join Custine, who had taken Mentz 
without a shot. In all the cities that opened their 
gates, this general established Jacobin Clubs in com- 

o2 



244 REPUBLIC. Chap. 65. 

munion with that in Paris. The defeat of the Duke 
of Brunswick and the triumphant success of the 
French, astonished all Europe. The Girondists, Brissot, 
Roland, and Vergniaud, shuddered at the excesses 
of the Jacobins. They saw the cause of Royalty was 
at an end, and that their moderation endangered their 
own Kves, now that the Republic, one and indivmile, 
was declared. 

The Jacobins influenced the elections, and re- 
turned the most licentious and desperate part of the 
population. Still, the moderate party out-numbered 
the Jacobins in the Convention. At this moment 
Robespierre rose in the Assembly, with the voice of a 
Dictator, to destroy the Girondists. * In the even- 
ing he appeared in the hall of the Jacobins, and 
was received with the greatest enthusiasm. A com- 
mission of twenty-four was appointed to report 
upon the state of Paris. They were employed in 
heaping up calumnies upon the deposed King — justi- 
fying the massa<5res, and denouncing the Girondists. 
The mutual accusations of the contending parties were 
now for a time superseded by the discussion relative 
to the process to be adopted in bringing the King to 
trial. 

The revolution had given birth to a Republic, and 
the King must be put out of the way. The mistake 

* The Girondists or Brissotines were the Moderaets — the 
Whigs of Prance. 



^ING D£N0I7KCSD. 245 

in judging the King, was in not separating him from 
the court. Thos6 about him were tyrannical, without 
the least feeling for the lower orders. Louis himself 
was well disposed towards them. He had no desiite 
to shed the blood of his people. Without decision of 
character, or confidence in himself, he was influenced 
by those about him. Indeed, his misfortune was, 
that he was bom a king. By his abdication, he had 
fallen into the class of private citizens. His defence 
r^ted on the principle that his person was sacred and 
inviolable. Robespierre appeared in the Tribune, and 
delivered a long and powerful speech. He said: 
— "Louis was King, — ^the RepubUc is founded. 
Louis has been dethroned for his crimes. Louis de- 
nounced the French people as rebels. To chastise 
them, he called together the armies of his tyrant 
brothers ; but victory and the people have decided 
that it was he only who was the rebel. If Louis be 
innocent, the friends of Liberty are calumniators. It 
is with regret I pronounce the fatal truth — Louis 
must die, that the country may live." Other speakers 
harangued with much greater violence. St. Just said, 
" This decides the Republic. There is an end to it, 
if the tyrant lives. What trial, what witness, do you 
require of those crimes which are everywhere written 
with the blood of the people ?" 

The wounded on the 10th of August by the Swiss 
Guards, were then borne on litters through the hall. 
The King was taken from the Temple to the Con- 



\ I 



346 SUNTENtfe Ot DtiATH. Chap. 65. 

vention by Santerre. As the carriage passed through 
the streets^ it was surrounded by the Federes, singing 
the Marseilloise. The masses that filled the avenues 
to the Convention ijisulted the Deputies who were 
favourable to the King ; but opened their ranks tor 
the Jacobins to pass into the hall. Flourishes of 
pikes and swords indicated the violent determination 
of the populace. The votes of the Convention were 
taken seriatim, and the King's &te seemed to depend 
on the part the Girondists would take, as the numbers 
for death and exile were nearly balanced. Vergniaud 
was known to commiserate the monarch. No one 
doubted the orator's course. He slowly mounted the 
steps of the Tribune, with his eyelids lowered, like a 
man who reflects before he acts ; then, in a gloomy 
tone, as if resisting the sensibility of his soul, he said 
— "Death!" — Silent astonishment repressed the 
breathing of the Assembly ; and the life of the King 
was obviously conceded to the passion of the people. 
Brissot explained himself more at length. He said : 
— *' I would that tiie punishment to be inflicted upon 
Louis had been pronoimced by the whole nation ; but 
since the Assembly rejects the appeal to the people, I 
am now of opinion, td avoid the dangers which 
threaten us, is to pronounce the sentence of death 
against Louis." The infamous Orleans Philippe £ga- 
lite gave his voice against the King. Three hundred 
and nineteen we9*e for imprisonment and chains ; 366 
for death; two (or banishment — one of whom was 



PRISON SCENE. 247 

Thomas Paine, who proposed to let him go to Ame- 
rica, or to his brother's in Germany, urging that 
Louis was beneath the consideration of the Republic. 

On Sunday, June 20th, the massive doors of the 
Temple were suddenly thrown open to the minister 
of Justice, Le Brun, Santerre, &c. The King rose 
to receive them ; th^ read the decree which condemned 
him to suffer death in twenty-four hours. He heard 
it without showing any emotion of fear. He pe- 
titioned for three days' delay, but it was denied him. 

The severest trial was yet to come — ^the last 
meeting of his family. The agony of this dreadful 
scene cannot be conceived. They had been confined 
in separate apartments for some time. 

Prison Scene. 

The valet, Glery, says : — '' The Queen, the Prin- 
cess Royal, and Madame Elizabeth, hung on the King, 
and bathed him with tears. The Dauphin stood 
between his knees. At ten, the King rose to leave 
them. The Queen held him by his right arm. Each 
had a hand of the Dauphin. The Princess had her 
arms round his body' ; and behind her clung Ma- 
dame Elizabeth. These five persons grouped, with 
their faces hidden on the King's breast, as they 
moved to the door, broke out into agonizing lamen- 
tations. He was to have seen them again in the 
morning ; but he saw them no more !" 



248 INFATUATED QUEEN. Chap. 55. 



THE kino's death. 



The King slept soundly till five o'clock in the 
morning. At eight o'clock, the officers of death en- 
tered. Santerre, stamping his foot, said "The hour is 
come." Louis answered, "Parto»«" — ^let us go. 
How the rolling of a thousand drums penetrated 
the dark bastions and bulwarks, falling upon the 
heart of a queenly wife, soon to be a widow ! She 
weeps, "He is gone, then, and has not seen 
usl" The streets are silent as the grave; the 
windows closed, none looking through them; all 
the shops are shut ; only one solitary carriage rolls 
through the streets; eighty thousand men are in 
arms; and loaded cannon surround the Place de 
la Revolution. Louis, the descendant of sixty kings, 
mounts the scaffold 1 He strips off his coat. The 
executioners now approach to bind him. He resists. 
The Abbe Edgeworth, an Irish priest, reminds him 
of Our Saviour. His hands are tied. He advances, 
bare-headed, to the edge of the scaffold. He says : 
— " People ! I die innocent of all the crimes imputed 
to me." Santerre prances forth, with uplifted sword, 
crying out " Tambours." The drums drown every 
voice. Six desperadoes tie him to the board. The 
Abbe Edgeworth, stooping, cries, " Son of Louis, ascend 
to heaven'' The last act of barbarity is perpetrated. 



yrio 



S O N O . 







nay n pret>_ty kind of spor-.tive piny 



^ 



r^ 



It 




^i ^:- i J- J ;!^ 



a thing* wiJl soon a ^way 



1 



., J ^^ 

^wt~ 7 — - — — =- ■ y 



o 




rz I 



,.n-^i^ J ^H^ ^ ^ 




■KVt 



- -(- 



Take vant.-ag't'. then, while y 



(ill 



^W 





^ 



^ 



Ive heard say O ^ 



this i 



s 




this 



IS 




fflij ii /^n i .P^^ ^ 



L<#ve^ .... as iVe heard say. 






f- 



^ 



^ee 



t 



i: 







DANTON. 25S 

Hundreds leap upon the scaffold, dip their pikes 
and lances in the blood, wave their hands towards 
heaven, and shout " Vive La Republique ! !" 



CHAPTER LVI. 



THE JACOBINS. 



The Jacobins exercised their savage designs with 
unabated rancour. They were now determined to 
get rid of the Girondists, whose moderation stood in 
the way of their illegal arrests and assassinations. 
Roland and Manuel resigned their seats immediately 
on the death of the King. Kersaint, bolder than the 
rest, declared he would no longer sit in the same hall 
with men of blood, whose acts terrified every one. 
The struggle for mastery then began with the two 
contending factions. " I ask you," says Danton (turn- 
ing to his party on the left), " was it any jealousy of 
royalty that made you proscribe the tyrant? No, 
No. If, then, it was a deep sense of your duties 
that made you sentence him to death ; if you thought 
you rescued the people from destruction ; rally, I say, 
against those (pointing to the Girondists) who would 
have spared him ?" 

He was foflowed by Robespierre, who said : — 
'^ One head struck off, thousands bent themselves 
down at the sight." Marat, the most ferocious of the 



254 CHARLOTTE CORDAY. Chap. 56. 

party, was the representative of the working classes. 
He {promised the complete overthrow of everything ; 
but his career was suddenly stopped. A young 
woman, Charlotte Corday, of Caen, who had long 
noticed the murderous disposition of Marat, declared 
that whilst he Kved, no one could be sure of exist- 
ence, and resolved upon his death. She set out for . 
Paris, under thd pretence of leaving her hapless coun* 
try, to seek a quiet home in England. She went to 
the house of Marat, with letters &om Barbaroux, and 
obtained an interview, under the pretext of communis 
catiag some intelligence from Caen. He had just come 
out of the bath, and seated himself, half dressed, near 
to her. After asking her about the deputies of Caen, 
who were loyalists, he said, " In a few days, I'll have 
the whole of them guillotined. Immediately she 
plunged a knife into his heart. He cried " Help, 
help," to a servant in the room, and instantly expired. 
At her trial she avowed the act and gloried in ridding 
the world of such a monster. Her beauty and calm- 
ness so worked upon the feeUngs of Adam Lux, a 
young Deputy of Mentz, that he enthusiastically cried 
out, " It is beautiful to die with her. She is greater 
than Brutus: she deserves a statue;" which pane- 
gyric * cost him his life. He was executed with the 
heroine a few days afterwards. 

St. Just brought up the report of the twenty- 
one imprisoned Deputies. Brissot was described as 
a defender of kings, while he affected to be a cham- 



DEATH OF tHE DEPUTIES. 255 

pion of the Republic. They were immediately put 
upon their trial (October 31.) After five hours' exa- 
mination, their eloquence was so unanswerable, in de- 
fending their crime of moderation, that Chaumette 
complmned that they were wearied-^it was a waste 
of time, and he proposed to disembarrass the Tribunal 
of forms; and the twenty-one were instantly con- 
demned to death. In vain did some remonstrate that 
their names had hardly been mentioned. The busi- 
ness of the court, however, was not to reason, but to 
condemn. Valage, m a transport of indignation, 
stabbed himself in the presence of the judges. The 
next day at noon they were drawn to the Place de la 
Revolution^ and in thirty-seven minutes the execu- 
tioner had done his ofl&ce. Thus perished the wisest 
and greatest philosophers in France. I recollect com- 
miserating Lavoisier, the founder of chemical science, 
who was executed in another batch, comprising the 
Farmers General,* being one of that body — ^thirty-two 
in number ; but whose names I do not find in any one 
of the historians kA the period. He petitioned for a 
few days* respite, in order that he might conclude an 
important experiment in which he was engaged at the 
time he was seized ; but this was denied.! 



* Persons of ancient families, who purchased the taxes of 
the king, and were consequently obnoxious to the people. 

t In the life of the Count Mallien (we^ ^^mrterhf Review 
for June, 1852) it appears that he was condemned to the gull- 



260 BAILLY. Chap. 56, 

Madame Roland was condemned, as the author of 
a work against the Republic. When carried to execu- 
tion, she saw the newly-erected statue to Liberty. 
" Oh, Liberty !" she exclaimed, " how many crimes are 
committed in thy name !" Cruel was the fate of 
Bailly, the astronomer, who, with La Fayette, crushed 
the insurrection in the Champ de Mars. With his 
head bare, his hands tied behind his back — ^his body 
only covered with a shirt under a freezing sky — he 
slowly traversed the streets, amidst the howUngs of 
the scum of Paris, whom he had restrained as a magis- 
trate. Descending from the cart, he was mad^ to lick 
the earth on which the blood of the people had been 

lotine, along with the Fanners General. He says, " The illus- 
trious Lavoisier was first informed of the edict, and had the 
courage to announce it to the rest. I neyer doubted my fate, 
as I was arrested with this party. I procured opium, and offered 
a share of the poison to the great philosopher, who, with a moral 
dignity, rejected the proposal, observing, ' To put ourselves to 
death would be to justify the madmen who have condemned us. 
Let us think of those who have preceded us ; let us not leave a 
worse example to those who may follow us.' We were all drawn 
out before the wicket, and taken by four at a time, to each car- 
riage. The turnkeys were all in tears. In an hour, twenty-four 
of our unfortunate companions had left the prison, the gaoler 
watching with obvious compassion each departure, while the mu- 
nicipal officers were drinking and shouting in his room. 
I was standing with the eight who remained, for my turn (being 
the thirty-third), came after them, when the gaoler said to me in 
a low voice, * Go in ; you are not wanted here.* I had only time 
to cast a glance at those I was leaving, and to see them smile at 
the hope of my deliverance. The door was shut upon me. Bobes- 
pierre fell the next day, and I was free." 



DEATH OF THE QUEEN. 257 

spilt. "Bailly, thou tremblest," said a miscreant. 
He replied, " My friend, it is with cold." The rest 
of the Girondists who had escaped, or secreted thein- 
sdves, were hunted up, and on their persons being 
identified, were immediately guillotined. 

The Due D'Orleans, Philippe Egalite, having in- 
sinuated early in the revolution, that he hoped to be 
made king, was charged as a conspirator against the 
Republic, and was drawn in a cart, with four others, 
to execution. His body was thrown without dis- 
tinction among other carcasses into the burying ground 
of St. Mary Magdalene. 

The surrender of Valenciennes to the allies formed 
the signal for new severities against the Queen. She 
was deprived of her son, and sent to the prison of 
malefa<2tors, where she endured disgraceful insult and 
misery. Her keepers brutally made a profit by ad- 
mitting people to see her, as a show. She was con- 
ducted to execution, like the lowest criminal, in a cart, 
with her hands tied behind her. Her emotion was 
visible when she came within sight of the Palace, 
the former abode of her magnificence and splendour. 
She cast but a look and hurried to her fate. 



258 Chap. 57. 

CHAPTER LVII. 

DEATH OF THl KING's SISTER. 

At midnight^ when Madame Elizabeth (the king's 
sister) was praying at the foot of the bed with the 
Princess Royal, they heard repeated knocks by the 
turnkeys at their chamber door. Madame hastened 
to dress herself to open it. " You must descend im- 
mediately." The aunt foresaw her fate, and rushed to 
enclose her niece in her arms. The Princess trembled. 
" Be tranquil my child," she said, " I will come 
again." " No citoyenne," rudely replied the jailor, 
" you will not re-ascend ; take your bonnet." Madame 
uttered her last adieu to her niepe, and was driven 
away. 

At her trial not a single witness waa oaUed against 
her. Addressing herself to the judge, Fouquier, she 
said, " You call my brother a tyrant. If he had been 
what you say, you would not be where you are, nor I 
before you." Her life had been free from reproach ; 
she was reserved tp suffer the last of twenty-four, in 
order that she might see the end of Royalty. 

In the thirty-three prisons of Paris, there were 
more than eleven thousand victims, who awaited the " 
mockery of trial and death. Every other day they 
were drawn through the streets to execution, in batches 
of twenty, thirty, and forty — ^a horrid spectacle — de- 
manded by the bloodthirsty populace. 



THOMAS PAINE. 259 

The same unheard-of cruelties were going on in 
La Vendee, Lyons, and the frontiers of France. Four* 
teen young ladies of Verdim, of irreproachable modesty, 
appearing like virgins for a hjnnenial feast, were led 
to the scaffold, for dancing at a baU given by Prussian 
oflScers. Two hundred and fifty Royalists were shot 
in one day, at Lyons. Although these atrocious acts 
were perpetrated without opposition, there was a 
growing hostility between the two factions — ^the Jaco- 
bins, headed by Robespierre, D'Herbois, Varennes, and 
St. Just ; and the Cordehers, by Herbert, Chaumette, 
and Cloots, who, amongst these wretches, were dis- 
tinguished by treating with derision the Christian re- 
ligion. All of these, with sixteen others, were seized 
and condemned by Robespierre. The night previous 
to their execution they were sent to the Luxembourg, 
where Cloots met with the EngUshman, Paine, whom 
he reproached with retaining too many religious preju- 
dices in his wcH*k, the Age of Reason* 

Herbert was petrified with terror. Cloots alone, 
of this worthless band, retained his self-posstession, ac- 
cusing Herbert of cowardice, and preached to him his 
fitvourite doctrine of materialism. Cloots finished his 
harangue, by quoting a French apologue, thus trans- 
lated : — 

" I dreamt that in my fellow day, 
Close by a beggar's side I lay." 

* Vide Faine's narrow escape from the guillotine, vol. 1, page 279. 



260 DANTON. Chap. 58. 

The quotation convinced the disputants that the morn- 
ing would settle their differences. 



CHAPTER LVIII. 



DANTON. 



What a relief was it to humamty, when tidings 
came that Robespierre had denounced Danton. We 
hoped that these two great elements of discord, nearly 
balanced in power, might destroy each other, and put 
a stop to this horrible conmiotion. 

When Danton appeared among the Jacobins to 
render an account of his actions, a murmur ran through 
the hall. " I- demand," said he, "to justify myself. 
I defy the malevolent. Their efforts cannot shake me." 
His declamation was so full and rapid, that the pen 
was incompetent to follow him. The bystanders were 
moved by his genius and eloquence. Robespierre, 
mounting the Tribune, said in a severe tone, "Danton, 
you demand proofs of the accusations brought against 
you. No one speaks. Then I will. It is said all 
were prepared to proclaim you Dictator ; that neither 
Pitt, Cobourg, nor Prussia, were our most danger- 
ous enemies ; that it was you, and you alone. In the 
time of Dumouriez and treasons, I suspected Danton. 
I blamed him for not pursuing Brissot, with more 



:dH'4 



^p^^S 





o V 



P what u paiii is love How bJiall 1 shall 1 



pip[f' p |: - 



\ N N 




tear it 



■ f i 11 — — <^ 

I ■ ' ' 




t-j^^ 



■«i- 





1 

she tto t^r. mtnts my mind That my 




g^J=^ 




- — ' r ' ^ — ' — ■ — 1^ — -j^ — 1 

it ftiil_ith' and wa.vtTs in tl 




iF=^ 



Like a ship that sHiL.tth 



g/^j^^ .M-P^ s 



-S] e^ 



J— ^-- 




^ 




SJfi/i 





bfst 1 raay 



She looks a.-nother >*'Hy 



A.. 




-^ t t' • * ~ < M^ 




Ihs h well H day h well 



H 




Phiilaila 



bile scorns me 



Philitt^a 



Phillada she 





^fc 



H 




I 






1 



scorns me she scorns me 



she sfiorns me. 



IXC. 




CAMILLE 1)£SM0ULINS. 265 

vehemence. I swear that these are the only re- 
proaches I now cast upon Danton/' This speecli 
saved Danton, but did not restore to him his lost 
credit. Camille Desmoulins also stood in need of 
excuse ; for he had expressed pity for the condemna- 
tion of the Girondists. Robespierre loved this po- 
etic young man, and hia crime was overlooked. Ro- 
bespierre hesitated to strike at Danton, who was 
gifted with exactly those faculties in which he was 
deficient — ^physical and instinctive courage. Danton 
retired from the Committee of Pubhc Safety to 
his seat at Sevres, where he Uved in affluence, sur- 
rounded by his ^ends. Fabre d'Eglantine said to 
him, "Danton, you are accused of eiuiching your- 
self, whilst Robespierre has remained poor, with 
treasures at his feet." " Well," repUed Danton, " I 
love gold ; he loves blood !" 

An endeavour was made to reconcile the monsters. 
They met. " Would I be here," said Robespierre, " if 
I desired your head ? Would I oflfer my hand to him 
whose assassination I meditated ? Is it necessary that 
power should be terrible or not, when danger is ex- 
treme ?" " Yes," said Danton, " but it ought not to 
be implacable. The Revolutionary Tribunal I in- 
vented was a rampart ; you make it a slaughter-house. 
You strike without discrimination." " No !" said 
Robespierre, " and the proof is that you live." Dan- 
ton passed two days at Sevres, without appearing to see 
what was plotting against him. In vain (Ud Legendre 



266 BANTON ARftESTED. Chap. 58. 

supplicate him to use precaution, and guard agamst 
Robespierre-— either by flight or boldness. *' They dare 
not attack me. I am stronger than they.'* Though 
he had given over the Jacobins to Robespierre, the 
Cordeliers to Herbert, and though the Convention had 
humbled to the Committee of Public Safety, yet his 
Mends relied on his eloquence to recover his ascend- 
ency. Instigated by Robespierre, St. Just demanded 
that Danton, Phillipeaux, and Camille Desmoulins, 
should be arrested and sent to the Tribunal. Robes- 
pierre was silent : no one dare oppose it. Barrere 
signed the order. A servant of the Committee over- 
heard something of what was passing, through a chink 
in the door, and ran to Danton's house to offer him 
an asylima. Danton sat still. His young wife besought 
him to fly. For a moment he was silent — then replied, 
" Who dares to touch me ?" and went to sleep again. 
In the mwning he exclaimed, " Ah ! Danton arrested ; 
who then is safe ? Twelve months ago, I formed this 
Tribunal. I crave pardon of God and man. Robes- 
pierre will follow me — ^I will drag him after me. Oh I 
'twere better to be a fisherman than I." Judge 
Fouquier interrogated Danton upon his trial : " What 
is your name and place of abode ?" to which he replied, 
" Danton of the Revolution — ^my abode soon will be 
Annihilation ; but I shall live in the Pantheon of His- 
tory." At the same hour they tore away Camille Des- 
moulins from the arms of his Lucille. This despairing 
young woman, just deprived of her father by the 



danton's last momekts. 267 

soaflFold, incessantly rambled about the Lnxembonrg, 
to see Camille, or to be seen by him at a distance. 
At four o'clock, the executioners came to tie their 
hands, and cut off their hair. Camille could not be- 
lieve to the last that Robespierre would abandon him. 
Danton was the last to ascend the scaffold. Never 
was he more haughty in the Tribune. His boldness 
in meeting death procured respect, and even sjrmpathy. 
With fire flashing &om his eyes, his stentorian voice 
reached to distant thousands, who re-echoed his words. 
Falling into gentleness, he said, '' I have enjoyed my 
moments of existence. I have tasted life (making 
a gesture with his head, as if about to repose on a 
pillow), I now go to sleep." 



CHAPTER LIX. 

BOBESPIEBBE. 

From this period it was hoped that a milder 
tyranny would ensue ; but the very contrary was the 
case. The haughty reserve of Robespierre and the 
dogmatism of St. Just, incensed the mtembers of the 
Convention. All ex-nobles and foreigners were for- 
bidden to remain in Paris. Citizens were bound to 
denounce persons who complained of the revolution, 
by which many innocent people were condemned as 
conspirators. 

In the Herbert faction Atheism was destroyed, and 

p 2 



268 NATURAL RELIGION. Chap. 59. 

as inveterate haters of the priests, Robespierre had in- 
stituted a natural religion. '' How infinitely diiBTerent," 
says he, "is the God of nature firom theGod of the clergy. 
They disfigure the Supreme Being. They believe in 
a God of their own image. They make him jealous, 
capricious, cruel, and implacable. They have exiled 
him into heaven, to call upon him there, to serve them, 
for wealth, honoiu*s, pleasures, and power. The true 
priest of the Supreme Being, is nature ; his temple, the 
universe ; his adoration, virtue ; his fetes, the joy of a 
great people under his eyes." He instituted a fete in 
Lori of the Supreme Being, of which David the 
painter contrived the drama and decorations. The 
tricoloured dresses of the females, their garlands of 
oak and flowers, were superb. Like the high priest 
of antiquity, Robespierre ascended the mountain raised 
in the Champ de Mars, from the very top of which he 
harangued the people. The Republicans admired the 
festival, but dreaded the height to which he was at- 
taining. The lower orders began to perceive that the 
guillotine was fast approaching them, and a conspiracy 
against the arch-ruler was forming among the few 
Savans who had weathered the revolution — CoUot 
D'Herbois, Bamave, Barrere, and Camot.* Robes- 
pierre was accused. He appeared in the same costume 

* Camot, a man of the greatest ability in military affairs. 
I saw him at a levee of Miss Helen Maria Williams, and saw 
Lord Holland show him great respect. 



T ALLIEN. 269 

as at the fete of the Sapreme Being, and defended him- 
self in a powerful speech. Bilkud Yarrenes charged 
him with the intention of massacreing the Conventipn. 
TaDien, impatipnt to bring about the grand crisis, rose 
and denounced him as a traitor. He was seized and 
sent to the Lujcembourg. The gaolers were so awe- 
struck, that they could npt be prevailed upon to thrust 
him inte a dungeon. The masses would not permit 
the great accused to be torn &om them. He was 
rescued and escorted to the Hotel de ViUe, and 
surrounded by his friends. 

A detachment of National Guards, under the com- 
mand of Leonard Burdon was charged to take him 
prisoner. Burdon found him defended by a body of 
troops. He threw himself between the two battalions 
and harangued them, on their duty to France and the 
Convention ; upon which they grounded their arms. 
Burdon ascended the stairs, and found Robespierre 
sitting in a thoughtful posture amidst his Mends. 
He rushed upon him, with the point of his sabre at 
his breast. " Yield, traitor ! " he cried ; when Robes- 
pierre replied, '* Til have thee instantly shot !" — ^upon 
which Burdon fired at his head. The ball hit him 
on the chin, and shattered his lower jaw. The ut- 
most confusion took place, and some leaped out of 
the windows. As the clock struck six, carts arrived 
to convey to the scaffold, Robespierre, his brother, 
Couthon, Henriot, Lebas, and St. Just, who were 
all mangled with wounds. The streets, and 



270 EXECUTION OF IIOBESPISIIRS. Chap. 59. 

even the nob of the houses, were covered with spec- 
tators. The women were dressed as for a fete. Those 
who had lost their husbands dung to the carts, 
uttering execrations against Robespierre, while thou- 
sands on every side showered down their yells and 
insults upon the monsters, whom they had worshipped 
only the precedijig day. 

Thus ended the great epoch of the French Revo- 
lution. The last five days were as five centuries to 
iBVance. The Convention were astonished at its unex- 
pected emancipation. Every voice in the street was 
heard in tones of joy and thanksgiving. Parents 
and Mends greeted each other, as they met with tears 
of joy in their eyes. " Never," says Lamartine, " did 
any country since the commencement of Christianity, 
produce in so short a space of time such an irruption 
of ideas, men, nations, characters, geniuses, talents, 
catastrophes, crimes, and virtues, as during the con- 
vulsive throes of five years, called the Revolution of 
IPrance ! Neither the age of Caesar Octavius at Rome, 
nor Charlemagne, nor the age of Pericles in Athens, 
nor Leo X., in Italy, nor Louis XIV., in Prance, nor 
Cromwell in England. It was as if the earth was in 
labour — ^a deadly struggle for the cause of human 
reason, more glorious than the victories of armies 
that succeeded it. It acquired for the wodd inalienable 
truths, instead of acquiring for a nation the precarious 
increase of provinces. It enlarged the domain of 
mind, instead of extending the limits of a people." 



271 



CHAPTER LX. 

dryden's ode — ST. Cecilia's day. 

Upon the death of Robespierre, we confidently 
hoped that France would return to a state of something 
like order and humanity. England and the pro- 
vinces were filled with emigrants. The Royal family 
of Bourbons w^e domesticated at Donkigton Park, in 
this county, enjoying the hospitaUty of Lord Moira. 
The emigrants looked forward to a speedy retum to 
their mansions and Mends. Numerous speculations 
took place in trade and commerce, and among others, 
was the pubHcation of the MontUy Ma^azine^ by 
Sir Richard Phillips. At his instance I wro^e a criti- 
cism upon Handel's music, probably the first that ap- 
peared in the pubUcations of the day. I introduced it 
by saying that the Abbey festivals had brought for- 
wards a rich fund of HandeFs works, new to the pub- 
lic, and went on to describe Dryden's Ode to 
St. Cecilia's Day, which had been set to music by him, 
and though in my opinion equal to any of his works, 
as almost unknown. The following quotations, from 
the effusion, will show my admiration of this author, 
then our greatest composer-.-— 

This piece opens, by way of overture, with nearly 
the whole of his fifth grand concerto. The following 
recitative is finely accompanied : — 



272 DBTDEN's 0D£. Chap. 60. 



<( 



From hannony, from heavenly harmony, 

This universal frame began ; 

When Nature, underneath a heap of jarring atoms lay. 

And could not heave her head." 

The restrain which appears in the violin parts, 
from the introduction of flats in the two last lines, 
admirably expresses the force of the words, 

" The tuneful voice was heard on high, 
' Arise, ye more than dead !' 
Then cold and hot, and moist and dry, 
In order to their stations lead." 

The contrivance here is too light and whimsical. 
A universal modification of nature must have been 
truly grand, and is not to be expressed by the hop- 
ping semiquavers. 

CBOBUS. 

" From harmony, from heavenly harmony, 
This universal frame began; 
Thro' all the compass of the notes it ran 
The diapason closing full in man." * 

The words of the third line are happily expressed 
by the trebles and altos running up the notes of the 
diatonic scale, while the last line is executed by the 
tenors and basses in the descending scale in unison, 
the bass taking the notes an octave lower than the 
tenor, thus expressing the meaning of the word dia- 
pason. 

* The diapason is a set of pipes in an organ which is consi- 
dered as the ground- work or principal part of that instrument. 



s 



I 



274* 



Semplice 



SONG. 




ScHrve ttix.teen sum. .mem had 1 seen 



a 




* ^ J } 



I fl > 



_ moiig' my na tivt* 



bow. 



m 



.er« 



Nor 




^ 



^ — jiM^ ^^ 



m 



strayed my thoag^hts be ^yond the green The 




Gar den 



aen ana ine iio 









nei_„lher wish'd or 



bau^ht 



him 



y:.-. 



From 




^m 






spoke what ,love had 






^ ^z* 1 M J7??^5nxrrrn 



i 



v»g->t ,f 



m 






drtdsn's ode. 277 

Had Dr. Johnson been mora of a musician, he 
might have gathered a definition of the word, from 
this poem instead of informing us that " diapason 
is a term in music/' 

Song. — " What passion cannot music raise and quell." 

The symphony to this song is not to be equalled 
for excellent composition. It has an ad Ubitum ac- 
companiment for the violoncello, and, when played by a 
Crosdil or a Lindley, a more enchanting morceau can- 
not be found. I must express my passionate fondness 
for the chord of the seventh, which is so elegantly in- 
troduced upon the pause. The succeeding passage 
gives utterance to by far the sweetest tones upon the 
violoncello. The brilliant violins so complete the 
subject, that I could have been satisfied had it ended 
here; but I am of opinion that Handel made this 
song more to shew the power of the instrumental per- 
former than that of the singer.. 

Song. — " The trumpets loud clangor excites us to arms." 

The subject of this song and chorus is well cal- 
culated to shew the clang and fire of the trumpet, and 
is an inspiring military air. In this chorus, I observe 
one of those inaccuracies into which Handel has 
sometimes fallen; namely, the wrong accenting of the 



278 DATDBN's ode. chap. 60. 

poetry, probably from his not, at that time, having a 
thorough knowledge of our language. 

" The double double beat of the thundering drum.*' 

Here the little insignificant article thCy by coming upon 
the bar, is made the most emphatic word in the line, 
whereas the first syllable of /Ai^^d'ring ought to have 
had that place ; and, as it now stands, a person with 
a good ear finds a difficulty in sinfinn£; it. On the 
whole, this is a most pleasing and acting chorus. 



SoNe. — "The soft com^aiiiing flute. 



99 



This is a plarntive air well adapted to shew the 
excellency of the flute — ^that is, its peculiar delicacy 
of tone. 

** But, oh, what art can teach. 
What human voice can reach. 
The sacred organ's praise ?" 

This larghetto movement admirably displays the 
rich and mellifluous tbnes of the diapasons, in a fine 
series of harmony, accompanied, mezzo piano, by the 
stringed instruments, the solemn organ being heard 
at regular intervals, throughout. 

Song. — " Orpheus could lead the savage race.'' 

The symphony of this song is a kind of hornpipe 
in the minor key of D ; I suppose, intended to express 
the moving powers of this deity upon the savage 
audience. But I much doubt, whether many of his 



drydbk's ode. 279 

brutes could find sufficient agility to keep time, the 
movement being rather too quick for his elephants or 
bujffaloes. 

" As from the power of sacred lays, 
The spheres began to move." 

A charmiag solo for Madame Mara, Senza 
orchestra requiring great strength and evenness of 
voice. After which, an ingenious idea is given of the 
motion of the second orb (in the second line) by the 
instrumental part, decorating the full chorus. 

" So when the last and dreadful hour. 
This crumbling pageant shall devour." 

The resolution of the chord upon the word dread- 
ful, in the chorus following, is literally dreadful; and 
shows how discord, when scientifically disposed, is 
capable of raising the passions. 



K 



The trumpet shall be heard on high." 



This vocal solo, Senza orchestra^ takes the natural 
notes of the instrument, and a response follows from 
the trumpet, with great effect. I am persuaded, this 
part can never fail to operate most powerfully upon 
an audience, as well as the following chorus : — 

*' The dead shall live, the living die, 
And music shall untune the sky." 

This is wrought up to the highest pitch, by a 
most musical fugue. Nothing can surpass it for 
solemn grandeur. The clang and strokes at intervals. 



280 SILKEN SHOES. Chap. 61. 

from the trumpets, trombones, and drums towards the 
conclusion, operate hke electrical shocks upon the hu^ 
man frame, while the smooth cadence is heard 
between, from the voices. This ode is properly brought 
to a climax with a grand chorus. In a word, I am 
warranted in concluding, that it is a masterpiece of 
composition, and may be truly ranked as one of the 
sublimest productions of human genius. 



CHAPTER LXI. 



SILKEN SHOES. 



On reading Bulwer's Caxtons, the mention of 
Ellen Bolding, a country lass in her silken shoes, 
brought to my recollection an incident that occurred 
to me on leaving Fans in 1802. I was charged by 
the police with having talked about the Consul Bona- 
parte, with too much freedom, and was admonished 
not to open my lips again upon politics during my 
stay. Alarmed, I instantly waited upon my friend, 
Mr. Stone, who was intimate with the minister, 
Fouche, to get my passport signed, that I might leave 
Faris without delay. It was fortunate that I did so, 
or I might have been kicking my heels as a detenue « 
at Verdun for eight or nine years afterwards. 

Early in the morning I was at the coach office ; 
but when we were about to set ofiF, it was discovered 



FOLLY OF THE FRENCH. 281 

that one of the wheels of the diUgence was broken, 
and workmen were sent for to repair it. Vexed at 
being driven away for what is considered no crime in 
England, I could not refrain from launching out into 
some furious expressions against the thoughtless French 
character. My remarks occasioned a laugh among 
the by-standers, and I saw a smUe on the face of two 
ladies, who, I supposed, were my countrywomen. 
The vehicle being repaired, I accosted them, and found 
them to be an English lady and her daughter, on their 
return home. I proposed that we three should en- 
gage the coupee to ourselves, which was readily as- 
sented to. The old lady, who had a sharp face and 
a quick manner, would have placed herself in the 
middle ; but this I protested against, as it would have 
deprived me of the pleasure of conversing with her 
daughter, who had pleased me with the few words she 
had spoken. I soon found the]^ had been travelling 
alone all over Europe, well able to take care of them- 
selves. It was weU I had insisted upon this arrange- 
ment, as a more garrulous piece of goods than the 
elder lady I never came near, and I should have been 
dreadfully annoyed by her tongue. The young lady — 
Miss RyUis, but whose real name was the more poetic 
one of Amaryllis — ^was more reserved. I could not 
judge of her personal charms, as she was so muffled 
up in travelling dresses. Who has not felt the force 
of woman's eyes ; whether black, blue, or brown ? 
Of those of Miss Amaryllis J have no recollection ; but 



282 NAIVETE. Chap. 61. 

I was charmed with a lovely row of teeth, which 
lighted up her face with irresistible smiles. At every 
hill we came to, we got out of the lumbering diligence 
to walk, which was a great reUef, and I enjoyed her 
conversation and humorous remarks upon the country 
people, who were equally diverted, as she spoke 
French like a native. 

Before we had passed the first day, I suspected I 
was faUing into love, but why, I could not tell. Cer- 
tainly it was not the fascinating power of beauty that 
charmed me, it was a naivete ; an indescribable some- 
thing that disturbed me exceedingly. As the shades 
of evening drew on, and the excitement of 6ver«vary- 
ing scenery ceased, conversation flagged, and we soon 
dropped into a state of forgetfiilness. Sprightly as my 
companion had been through the day— in the middle 
of the night I awoke and found her fast asleep, with 
her head reclining on my shoulder. I felt her warm 
breath upon my cheek. There was an end to my re- 
pose ; stir I dare not for fear of awaking her, and 
never was I more critically fixed. To my great relief 
Aurora came, and gently touched her with her rosy 
fingers, and my nymph started into hfe, greatly 
alarmed at the position in which she found herself. 

Most of the inns were turned into barracks, and 
we were driven to a barber's shop, Where breakfast 
was prepared for us. When we arrived at the column, 
near Boulogne, which marks the spot where Rozier 
and his companion fell fi*om the balloon, the carriage 



REV. MR. ROSS, LEICESTER. 283 

' stopped, and I prevailed upon Miss Amaryllis to 
translate the inscription, which she did very cleveriy, 
and had the thanks of the EngUsh passengers. Early 
in our conversation I found the ladies had visited the 
family of the Rev. Mr. Ross, at Leicester, with whom 
I was well acquainted. This at once accredited me in 
their good opinion. When we arrived at Calais, my 
companions received an invitation, in which I was in- 
cluded, to dine at a merchant's. While they were 
making their toilette, I strolled upon the sands, and 
helped Madame Gamerin out of a quandary, she being 
nearly surrounded by the tide. I returned just in 
time for my appointment ; and as I stood at the bot- 
tom of the stairs, a female came trotting down, 
gauday dressed in dark purple silk stockings, with 
staring yellow clocks, and yellow silk shoes, I gazed 
with horrible emotion. It was the nymph of my 
heart, who had made such a fool of herself. My love 
vanished in an instant. I feigned ^ sudden illness,, 
and declined the proposed visit, saying that I should 
hastily reti^ home by the first packet, which would 
sail in an hour. I have never seen those staring 
colours since, without being horrified. 



284 Chap. 62. 



CHAPTER LXII. 



CLASI. 



Among the charming voices of my friends, none 
was sweeter than that of the lovely Clan. At the age 
of sixteen, she returned from school in France, with 
the bloom of youth and all the polish of that country. 
With what eclat some make their entre into life, 
while others creep on the stage unseen. Music is 
peculiarly a female accomplishment. It brings into 
^ew the finest feelings of a woman's mind, a^d im- 
parts a grace to society. As a pianist. Clan had a 
brilliant execution, and played the fantasias of Herz 
(whose pujvl she was) with marked expression. His 
pastorale sonata is remarkable for its originality, es- 
pecially in the passage upon the lower keys of the bass. 
It reminds me of an effect in rolling a fragment of 
rock into Eldon hole — ^a fathomless gulph in Derby- 
shire, which produces a series of under-ground thun- 
ders frightfuUy grand. The harp, which she occasion- 
ally touched, is peculiar for the distinctness of its tones, 
which never incommodes the voice. Men treat it 
rudely. The female hand alone can elicit its delicate 
language. As a vocalist, this gentle lady had less pre- 
tension. Her reserve kept her from everything Uke 
display, and seldom could she be prevailed upon to 
sing. When this timidity was overcome, you were 



1^86 



SONG. 



LICATO. 




chil.liog' hand my hap less 



jiion 






ma g-ic wand 



Ln cy 




r.M J ■ li 



^^^^^^ 



m 



La cy loves a. 



no. 



-ther 



^ 



.<:v^, irp _rrp , py py 




^ 



^ 






scorn bewitching* 



i' i i'7^ i i ' | i^ I 



bean ties power ' > She 






SIR HARRY GOODRICKe's HOUNDS. 289 

charmed with a pathetic expression. The elegance of 
this heroine was not confined to the drawing-room ; she 
had a pretty figure, and whatever she did was with 
Uberal grace. She rode intrepidly and occasionally 
appeared in the field at the meet of Sir Harry Good^ 
ricke's hounds. Well mounted, with an ostrich feather 
in her beaver, she flew like Camilla, with a host of 
flatterers in her train. On the fox breaking cover, 
those old in the sport, shot away like lightning, leav- 
ing the captivated beaux entangled in the toils of love, 
so great is the charm of beauty's power. Wherever 
she appeared she was followed by gazing eyes, like 
a butterfly with painted wings, flitting fi'om flower 
to flower. Take courage, ye Lotharios in the counsel 
of the following 

SONG.--<Page 298.) 

'•'Everything doth pass away ; 
There is danger in delay : 
Come, gather, then, the rose ; 
Gather it, or it you lose. 
No longer, then, the thought delay, 
Come, take the rose, while yet you may." 



290 Chap. 63. 



CHAFrER LXIII. 



NATIONAL SONG. 



It is said the English have no national music. 
The assertion is true ; our music, Uke our language, is 
made up of words and expressions borrowed from 
foreign countries. To account for this we must par- 
ticularly notice the history of the art of poetry and 
song. Of aU instruments, the human voice is the most 
pure and sonorous ; and, in the mild climates of Greece 
pud Italy, it ripens and comes to perfection. The 
primitive tones which nature has impressed upon us, 
and which we utter instinctively, are without doubt, 
the rudiments of speech ; and by an easy transition 
are converted into song. Even savages, we find, ex- 
press the agreeable passions in a language that often 
rises into touching simplicity, and which they readily 
combine with rhythm and gesture, producing dance. 
Hence, we say, that out of melody and dance, poetry 
arises ; that it is inherent in nature, however rude, and 
has ever existed in all stages of society. The ancient 
Greeks, under the enlarged sense of the term mimCy 
doubtless meant the imion of the three sister graces, 
poetry, melody, and dance. They needed no art to 
join them, for they naturally produce each other. 
Out of this combination the voice becomes animated, 
and pleasure gives birth to song. Before the inv6n- 



TROUBADOURS. 291 

tion of writing, and the use of books, poetry must 
have been necessary to record events, and to carry 
them down from one age to another. Of the 
Greeks it is said that their lawgivers were bards, who 
composed the laws in verse, and sang them to the lyre. 
Their ancient gods, were styled singers. Pindar and 
Homer called them dancers ; and Sculptors put into 
the hands of the statues of their gods, musical 
instruments, as symbols of their office, representing 
harmony and order. 

The euphony of a language is the first incentive to 
song, and gave birth to oratory and the vocal art 
amongst the Greeks. The voice, in these sunny 
climes, blooms like a flower, and expands to perfection. 
To come nearer to our own times, let us trace the 
origin of song, from the time of the Troubadours. 
These minstrels were an order of men in the middle 
ages, who subsisted by the art of poetry and music, 
and sang their ditties in the Romaic tongue, which, 
like the Italian, was a language of nature, replete 
with sound — ^not like the crabbed German, or the 
Latin, with its dead terminations, or the nasal French. 
It was a language of passion and feeling. With this 
class of persons, music seemed to level all distinctions. 
The young sons of noble families, who had the requisite 
talent, thought it not beneath them to take up the 
character of a minstrel, passing from castle to castle, 
where they were always welcomed, and lavishly enter- 
tained. Many followed their lords to the wars, and 

q2 



292 DANTE AND, PETRARCH. Chap. 65 

arrived at extraordinary honors and preferments. 
Even kings and queens have sometimes polled off 
their finest vestments to give to a Troubadour of 
extraordinary talent. Ladies crowned their favourites 
with peacock's feathers, and frequently the price of 
the best song was a kiss, which the poet claimed from 
the greatest beauty fNresent. As the songs of the 
Troubadours were strongly tinctured with the marvel- 
lous, everything incredible or fanciful, was called 
Romantic. To these songs and legends it is said, Dante 
and Petrarch, owe much of their excellence. 

At this period, poetry was greatly in advance of 
music ; but our language, being so heterogeneous a 
mixture, was not sufiiciently settled to serve for the 
purposes of song. This was not the case with Scot- 
land, where a language, fluent and vocal, already pre- 
vailed. The court of Scotland was in close alliance with 
that of France ; and the Troubadours who visited the 
northern capital^ mainly contributed to improve their 
music. These minstrels sat at the tables of kings, and 
were better rewarded than the clergy. In their jour- 
nies, they paid their reckoning at taverns vrith a song. 

" In Normandy, a song or tale, 
Is current coin for wine or ale r 
Nor does the friendly host require 
For bed or board a better hire." 

We are indebted to Chaucer, the great improver of 
our language^ and the father of English poetry, for the 



SHAKSPEBB. 293 

first specimens of EngUsh song. We may learn from 
scattered passages in the Canterbury Tales, that music 
in his time was just beginning to be practised. The 
following song wijl be found in the second volume of 
this work, set to music by myself : — 

SONG.— (Page 637.) 

** From sweet bewitching tricks of love, 

Young men your hearts secure, 
Lest from the paths of sense you rjove. 
In dotage premature. 



«( 



Look at each lass, thro' Wisdom's glass. 

Nor trust the naked eye. 
Gallants beware, look sharp, take care, 

The blind eat many a fly." 



Shakspere sometimes introduced into his plays the 
ballads of his time, which were often sung to tasteless 
and vulgar tunes, but none were so good as those he 
wrote himself. The following is admirably set to 
music by a modem composer : — 

SONG. 

" Sigh no more ladies — ^ladies sigh no more ; 

Men were deceivers ever ; 
One foot on sea, and one on shore, 

To one thing constant never. 
Then sigh not so, but let them go. 

And be you blithe and bonny. 
Converting all your sounds of woe, 

To hey nonny, nonny." 



294 OTHELLO. Chap. 65. 

What is more beautiful than the following, &om 

Othello :— 

SONG. 



" My mother had a maid, called Barbara ; 
She was in love ; and he she loved proved mad, 

And did forsake her ; she had a song of willow ; 
An old thing 'twas ; but it expressed her fortune, 
And she died singing it. That song, to-night. 
Will not go from my mind, I have much to do, 
But to go hang my head all at one side, 
And sing it, like poor Barbara." 

The constant wars in which England was engaged 
for five hundred years were destructive of the arts. 
Like birds of passage, they now and then visited us 
and fled. The reign of EUzabeth was the longest calm 
the nation had experienced. Then the arts began to 
take root, and our church composers, under the re- 
formed religion, evinced the highest talent. The church 
music was much patronized by the clergy and court. 

After Shakspere, we may place Marlow, Drayton, 
and Baleigh, at the head of our song-writers. Isaac 
Walton has preserved the following beautiful stanzas. 
He says : — " While angling, I left this place, and 
entered into the next field. Here, a second pleasure 
entertained me : it was a handsome miUanaid, that 
had not yet attained so much age and wisdom as to 
load her mind with any fears of many things that 
never will be : she cast away all care, and suns like 
a nightingale; her voice was good, and the ditty 
fitted for it. It was that smooth song made by 



KIT MAELOW. 295 

Kit Marlow, fifty years ago ; and the milkmaid's mother 

sang an answer to it, which was made by Sir Walter 

Raleigh in his younger days. They were old-fashioned 

poetry, but choicely good : I think much better than 

the strong lines that are now in fashion in this critical 

age." 

SONG. 

" Come, live with me and be my love, 
And we will all the pleasures prove : 
That grove and valley, hill, and field, 
Or woods and steepy mountains yield. 

*' And I will make thee beds of roses, 
And twine a thousand fragrant posies ; 
A cap of flowers arid rural kirtle, 
Embroider'd o'er with leaves of myrtle. 

« 

The songs of Daniel, Carew, Brown, and Love- 
lace, are pre-eminent in neatness and delicate sentiment. 
These may be justly called the love poets of England. 
The following, by Daniel, is full of pretty conceits ; — 

" Love is a sickness full of woes. 
All remedies refusing ;, 
A plant, that most with cutting grows^ 
More harr&n with best using. 

Why 80 ! why so ! 
More we enjoy it, more it dies, 
K not enjoyed, it sighing cries, 
Heigho 1 heigho ! 

" Love is a torment of the mind, 
A tempest everlasting; 
And Jove hath made it of a kind. 
Not well, nor full, nor fasting ; 

Why so ! why so ! 



296 CHARLES II. Chap. 65. 

More we enjoy it, more it dies, 
If not enjoyed, it sighing cries, 
Heigho ! heigho I " 

Neither the foregoing, nor the following exquisite 
little poem, by Brown, has ever been set to music. 
The naivete of both induced me to marry my music 
to them, which is much below such pretty lines. 
The reader may find the music to both in the previous 
volumes : — 

SONG. 

• '* Shall I tell you whom I love ; 

Hearken, then, a while to me : 
And if such a woman move, 

As I now shall verify. 
Be assur'd 'tis she or none, , 

That / love, and love alone." 



The classical style of our church composers was 
especially suited to Bacchanalian subjects. I do not 
recollect that they ever wrote a love song. The music of 
the following, by Wise, is a specimen of genius that 
has never been equalled. Wise wrote many excellent 
anthems, and was patronized by Charles II., to 
whose taste he occasionally lowered himself : — 



SONG.— (Page 237, Vol. 2.) 

" Old Chiron thus preached 
To his pupil, Achilles : — 
I'll tell you, young gentleman. 
What the fate's will is. 



HUH 



SONG. 




j . - V M .11' J ^^^ 



KvVy thing* doth pass H-.WHy There is danger in dt-, 

^^^^-^ _^^^. ^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^to * ^^^^^ ^^^^K ^^^^B ^^^^^m 




° -I I Jf J" ■ * fe 



^ 



Come come g*H-ther there the rose 

T.ir r 



^ 



gather 




irather it or it y<>" ^^^*^ . 



! 




Ife^^ 



^ J - 1 ^J ii 



J 



^ 



tz^ 



No lon_-g-er then ^he thougvht de« 



I 



l(^l> J . ^ r^ r^Ti^ F J 1 J I J - }J\ 



-Any Qome take the rose while you may take it 




t 



m 



m 






«)l 




^^ 



w 



\ 1 ; J ^ )-^ 



take it while yon may there is dang'er in de lay No long-er 



W 



m 






p 






then the thong*ht de__lHy Come tkke the rose whilt- v<'" 



^ 



m 



p 




j'f 1. 1- 



X 



i 4 



t 



it while yon may there is 




if J'^^^hJ 



dangvr in deJay There is diuig'er danger in de_lay Tlj,erf is 

■<» I?- Tf- •*• •*- -l*-'--*--*'--^ 

^=T= rr— : i T J i— T^l — 



^: 



E 



rJi^r'.dr^fi. j 




dang'er dangt^r in de Iwy. 



I 






9 



f 



i 



■9 



^ 



HUH 



b-7 .> r ■ 





%ffff :=k 



KvVy tlHng'dothpa»»H-3«ty There is ditng^r ift dt-^ 

^ ^_^^^ ^_^^_ ^^^^_ » .^^^^^ .^^^K ^^^^B ^^^^^^ 





?=?: 




J i ^ ; '^ N.h I J>N 



Come come g"«i-ther there the rose 



s 



gutht^ 




g'Hther it or it you lose 



i 




p^^ 




^ J .' J J Ji 



J * ,^ 



No lon-.g-er then ^he thougjit de_ 

•-? . \ 



f 





Pf--^^r 



ome take the 



rose while you mi^ tttke it 

■^ -J- -•L 



p 



p 



*-h 





^ 



w 



I n J' .1' h-i^ 






fake it while you may diere is dang'er in de lay N<i Joiig^er 



M 



^ 



^BS 





then thf thong'ht df. .lay Cume tftke the 



rose whilf \i>u 



^ 



^^ 



^^ 



f J ^ J J I 




ib 



^^ 



X 



X 



t * 



1 



may take it take 



it 



^ 



I 



g 



while you may 



thtre is 



^ ^ T 




danger in deJay There is dangler dangt^r in de_lay Tl|^re is 

^ ir ir IT ir -r -^i ^"^ 



E 




n^n, nn<i.i 



dang'er dangt^r in de.-lay. 



f^=r 



s 



m 




f 



Wi 



cr 






f 



DR. ARNE. 301 

" You, my boy, must go, 
(The Gods will have it so,) 
To the siege of Troy : 

" Thence never to return to Greece again, . 
But before those walls to be slain. 

" Let not your noble courage be cast down ; 
But all the while you lie befcfte the town, 
Drink and drive care away — 
Drink and be merry 1 

" You'll ne'er go the sooner 
To the Stygian ferry." 

We are now approaching a period when EngKsh 
music gained some semblance of a national character — 
that of gentle simpUfcity. 

Axne, the son of a tradesman, was passionetely fond 
of music, and when a young man, would often borrow 
the clothes of a livery servant, to gain admittance into 
the upper gallery of the Opera-house, which was pro- 
vided for the servants of the nobihty. Without any 
musical learning, but with a taste naturally correct, 
he hstened with deUght to the singers that came from 
Italy, on the opening of that theatre. Being some- 
thing of a poet, he wrote some pretty ballads, which 
were sung at the tea-gardens about London. What 
is more beautiful than the baUad 

SONG.— (Page 280, Vol. 1 .) 

" When forced from dear Hebe to go, 
What anguish I felt at my heart ; 
And I thought (but it might not be so), 
She was sorry to see me depart. 



302 PIANOFORTE. Chap. 63. 

" She cast such a iRngniahii^ yiew, 
My path I could scarcely discern ; 
So sweetly she bade me adieu ; 

I thought that she bade me return. " 

Had he been articled to a musician instead of a 
lawyer, the probability is he would never have written 
such pleasing, simple melodies; his natural genius 
wi dd then have been shackled by the laws of 
counterpoint and harmony, to the neglect of those 
endearing tones of nature which strike so deep upon 
the heart. , 

Though so yoimg, he soon ventured upon com- 
posing two operas — Comvs and Artaxerxea, The 
smooth and simple air of Water parted from the Sea, 
in Artaxerxes, for a time usurped the entire public 
attention. Its chaste simplicity made it universally 
popular. This opera (if I recollect right,) opens 
with a duo — Hope^ thou nurse of soft desire — 
strictly in his own style, although copied from 
Weldon's song — Let ambition fire thy mind — written 
long before Ame was bom. 

In 1774, so low was the taste in sentimental 
music, that I heard Giardini's finest concerto on the 
violin, with the JoUy young Watermun, played as a finish, 
which moved the audience with unspeakable delight. 

The most striking era in the history of music was 
the invention of the pianoforte ; before its introduction 
it might be said there was no domestic music, certainly 
no singing. The harpsichord was ill adapted to support 
the voice. Indeed, there was no music prepared for 



POET MOORE. 308 

it. We heard nothing but sailors rude songs, and 
galloping hunting songs, which the ladies were con- 
strained to sing, for want of better music. T^e in- 
vention of the pianoforte, like the introduction of tea, 
softened the manners of the age, increased the refine- 
ment of the mind, and gave an elegance to society by the 
addition of the female voice to domestic vocal music. 

In 1778, Mr. Thompson of Edinburgh, the 
patron of Bums, published an edition of Scotch 
inelodies; he engaged Pleyel to write the symphonies 
and accompaniments, and the poets of the day 
were employed to write new words to them. There 
are but three poems by Bums in the book, which I 
conceive to be worth all the rest. These I have selected, 
and pruned of the old fashioned flourishes of that day. 
They may be found in pages 80 and 128 of the Music 
of Nature, and page 337, vol. 1, of this work. 

The next great improvement in EngUsh song was 
by our late poet, Moore. He was truly a lyric poet. 
And here is an instance of the advantage of the poet 
being a musician. Moore's singing of his own words, 
to his own music, gently touching the pianoforte, was 
the most exquisite thing that could be heard. Nothing 
was sung so incessantly as his OA, lady fair, where 
art thou going ? What is more simple and divine than 
the Ve^er Hymn, which engaged the attention of 
Beethoven ? Moore, and the rest of our poets, are 
truly national ; but our musicians all lapse, more or 
less, into the Italian and German styles; 



804 Chap. 64. 



CHAPTER LXIV. 

* THE LITERARY AND PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY. 

When I was a young man, we had a small society 
m Leicester, called the Adelphi, for the discussion of 
philosophical subjects, and which was put down by 
the authorities of the town soon after the breaking 
out of the French Revdution, as it was rumoured 
that we talked politics. From that time, no society 
or meeting for scientific purposes existed in Leicester, 
till the Literary and Philosophical Society was esta- 
blished ; and in this respect, it was behind most other 
towns ci the same size and importance. 

In the summer of 1835, 1 was invited to attend a 
preliminary meeting at the Library of the Medical 
Society, in High-street, to form a Literary and Philo- 
80{diical Society. It was attended by ten or a dozen 
gentlemen of both political parties, when the objects 
were stated to be the reading and discussion of papers 
on literary and scientific subjects, and the formation of 
a museum and library of scientific works ; and in 
order that the society should embrace persons of all 
shades of opinion, questions of theology and poUtics 
were to be strictly excluded. At first our meetings 
were held in a commodious room in the house of Mr. 
Moxon, in the High-street. Dr. Shaw was our first 
president, and opened the session with an appropriate 
inaugural address. 



LITERARY AND PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY. 305 

For some time the meetings were but thinly 
attended, and it was proposed that ladies should be 
admitted on the introduction of members. This 
proposition gave rise to much discussion, and it was 
ultimately cairied, rather, I must' confess, to prevent 
the society falling to the ground for want of atten- 
dance, than from any feeling of gallantry towards the 
ladies to whom the privilege was given. I take 
shame to myself that I was amongst those who opposed 
the change. The result, however, fully justified the 
experiment. The ladies flocked to our soirees and 
soon out-numbered the members themselves. The 
papers, and especially the discussions which followed, 
now assumed a more animated tone, and from that 
period in the history of our society, it has stood on a 
firm basis, though still fluctuating from time to time, 
from various accidental causes. We have also had 
* several migrations for our place of meeting. From 
Mr. Moxon's room we went to the Midland Counties' 
Fire Office ; afterwards to the long room at the Amphi- 
theatre, in the Humberstone-gate ; then to the 
Exchange, and from there to the Town-hall, where we 
continued to hold our meetings until 1848. 

For some years after our society was in existence, 
little or no progress was made towards forming a 
museum ; but, by degrees, curiosities of various kinds 
dropped in, and at length a respectable collection was 
made, which we placed in a room in the New Hall, 
Wellington-street, and appointed a curator, and 



306 C. . C. MACAULAY, ESQ. Chap. 64. 

allowed the public to visit it gratis on certain days in 
the week. This continued till the year 1848, when 
the Proprietary School, on the New Walk, was given 
up, and the property purchased by our spirited Corpo- 
ration, to be converted into a Town Museum. An 
arrangement was now made between the authorities of 
the town and our society, for the transfer of the 
museum to the Corporation, to form the commence- 
ment of a Town Museum — ^the society having the 
free use of the lecture-room for its meetings. The 
formal transfer to the Corporation ^in June, 1849, was 
inaugurated in a manner in every way worthy of the 
occasion. Our president for the year, C. C. Macaulay, 
Esq., invited a party of between thirty and forty to a 
handsome dejeuner^ at the Three Crowns. The 
company consisted of Lord John Manners, and many 
of the gentry and clergy of the town and neighbour- 
hood, including the Council of the Museum. It ' , 
happened to be the day on which the first stone of the 
Cemetery was laid by the Mayor, and the occasion 
was kept as a kind of general holiday. Aft» the 
dejeuner was concluded, we walked up tq the Museum, 
which we found filled with four or five hundred well- 
dressed ladies and gentlemen, and from a platform on 
which the president and his friends were placed, a 
formal presentation of the Museum was made by the 
president, to the Mayor, W. Biggs, Esq., on behalf of 
the Corporation. Several excellent speeches were 
made, and tea and refreshments followed. Some 



TOWN MUSEUM. 307 

apology may be necessary for introducing these par- 
ticulars, which will be fresh in the recollection of many 
of my readers ; but having taken great interest in 
the society from its commencement, I may be 
pardoned for recording them here in the hope that 
they may be found interesting hereafter. I will only 
add, that a great increase in the number of members 
wfis the immediate consequence of our union with 
the Town Museum, and from that time our numbers 
have gone on steadily increasing, and not a meeting 
passes without the announcement of some important 
additions to the collection. Several magnificent 
Saurians from the Barrow limestone have recently 
been added, when Professor Ansted gave us a lecture 
on this interesting subject. 

FBOF£SSOIt ANSTED's LECTUttE ON THE GIGANTIC SAUEIAN8. 

I recollect, some seventy-five years agoj a great 
talk about curious stones found in the lime-pits at Bar- 
row. Some thought them stones which Dame Nature, 
in a freakish mood, had formed before the flood. I 
recollect also that Mr. Whitehurst, a watchmaker at 
Derby, pubUshed a work on the antiquity and forma- 
tion of the earth. He supposed these curiosities to be 
the remains of animals of a former world. I think be 
was led to these speculations by the fossil bones of an 
alligator, found in the marble quarries in Derbyshire. 
About this time I read a pamphlet by Dr. Toulmin, 



308 DR. ANSTED. Chap. 64. 

describing the coast of Antrim in Ireland, showing 
that the strata, or layers of sand, lime, clay, and coal, 
lying one upon another, corresponded exactly, and in 
. the same order with those on the western coast of the 
Isle of Man ; and that the eastern coast of that island 
corresponded exactly with the coast of Cumb^land. 
Hence, he concluded that the three islands were once 
joined, and that the earth had given way and sunk 
into the sea. I mention these circumstances to show 
what our notions were at that time of this new science 
of geology. 

Dr. Ansted commenced by assuming that our 
island once formed the bottom of a large sea, and that 
the monster skeletons found at Barrow are the remains 
of animals that inhabited the waters. He then ex- 
plained that the different strata were produced from 
sediments deposited by the sea during the wonderful 
changes from land to water, and from water to land, 
through vast intervals of years apart. Were you, said 
he, to cut a deep fissure through the country, in the 
manner of a railroad, these layers or stratifications 
would be exposed to view. The sediment deposited 
at Barrow was a compost of sand and siHcious lime, 
forming a soft mud, into which the animals, after 
death, subsided, and in which they lie imbedded. As 
there is little or no mixture of ironstone in this mud, 
the remains, where dug up, are found to be better pre- 
served thanin any other partof Europe. The most curious 
part of the problem is thus explained : — ^The steam 



i 



;<io 



SUNG. 




come in tuii 



this iHit said she Come closeJy m 



be 




tw^^m 



e by one thei 



-g-e-fher heit|/d So one by one there, in they crept tJx w 



a 




mi 





ey suund.ly soand. .ly slept , 



^ ly-jng* down tney stiundJy soana^.iy slept. ^ 




r.C. SniY .v 



'•»». 







GIGANTIC BIRDS. 313 

and gases produced by intemai fires have forced up 
the bottom of a large sea, in these latitudes, into open 
day ! A similar phenomenon is said to be going on 
at the present time in the Baltic Sea, the bottom of 
which is found to be gradually rising. 

It must be within the recollection of many, that 
an island suddenly rose in the Mediterranean, upon 
which some sailors landed : it shortly sank and dis- 
appear^. A striking instance of matter being forced 
up from the interior of the earth, occured in a coal-pit 
at the Whitwick CQlliery. It was found that some por- 
tion of red-hot granite had been forced upwards 
through a bed of coal, which it charred on all sides. 
We have now a new theory, which contradicts our 
former notions. Instead of the earth sinking, it is 
ascertained that our islands have been, by intemai 
operations, pushed up from below. When first 
emerged from the ocean, the mud on the surface 
before it became hardened, received impressions of 
the stoppings of birds, some of which, from the size 
of their feet and gigantic stride, could not be of 
less height than a moderate-sized house. So fine and 
accurate are these impressions, thus covered up for 
millions of years, that we may perceive the marks of 
a shower of rain upon them ; and from the slanting 
way in which the drops fell, we may even ascertain 
the point from which the wind blew. 

The learned Professor described the gigantic 
Plesiosaurus, now placed in our Museum, as the most 

R 



314 PLEBI08AURUS. Chap. 65. 

curious and perfect specimen in the country. From 
the vast length of the neck he supposes that it killed 
its prey by the powerful blow it could give ; and that 
it was a carnivorous animal^ as bones have been found 
fossilized in its stomach. Like the crocodile, it could 
live upon land as well as in the sea ; and by the 
enormous size of its paddles, its power and swiftness 
in the water must have been prodigious. 

We have thus at our own doors, the marvellous re- 
cords of a former conditi<Hi of the animal creation, which 
have lain buried in the earth for myriads of years. 
These were the inhabitants of an ocean, at one time 
covering, with many hundred fathoms of salt water^ 
the tract which now forms England and the neigh- 
bouring isles, and the continent of Europe. 



CHAPTER LXV. 



VACCINATION. 



Tlie value of Literary societies cannot be too 
highly estimated. Lectures are the readiest mode of 
conveying information. Everything that has been 
said and written upon the subject to be presented to 
the enquiring mind, is brought into one point of view 
by the lecturer, by which means the hearers are saved 



DR. JENNER. 315 

travelling through a multitude of books. The speaker's 
voice, countenance, and manner, make a deeper 
impression upon the memory, than can be pro- 
duced by reading. I have been led to the subject of 
vaccination by an able paper read by Mr. Stallard 
before the Leicester Literary and Philosophical Society^ 
which much interested me. Fifty years ago, in Paris, 
I met young Jenner, who was employed by the 
government to vaccinate the populace of that city. 
It was considered by the French, to be of such 
importance, that a law was enacted by which no person 
could receive alms, or hold an official situation, unless 
he had undergone vaccination. I met Dr. Jenner at 
the house of Miss Maria Williams, where were 
assembled, once a week, most of the foreigners then 
in Paris. He received great attention from the 
learned of every part of Europe, as the benefactor of 
the human race. He presented me with his little book 
on vaccination, firom which we learn the origin of 
the discovery, in the year 1776. At that time, I 
was six years old, and well recollect that my father 
had determined to have me engrafted — ^as it was 
termed by Lady Mary Montague — ^with the matter of 
the smallpox, taken from a person who had had it in the 
natural way. It was, however, denounced as a wicked 
and dangerous proceeding, to infuse into the veins of 
a healthy person, a disease of the most dreadful kind. 
My father, who was open at all times to the improve- 
ment of science, engaged Mr. Fox, our eminent 

R 2 



316 MILK MAIDS. Chap. 65. 

surgeon, to perform the operatioii. I was inoculated 
on both arms, went through the disorder in a mild 
way, and convinced many persons of its utility. It 
was in prosecuting this Turkish method of mitigating 
the effects of the smallpox, that Dr. Jenner was led 
to the discovery of vaccination in the following year. 
He lived at a country village in Gloucestershire ; and 
in the course of his practice, met with some persons 
whom he could not inoculate with the smallpox, 
and which peculiarity he observed was confined to 
females. He thought they must have had the com- 
plaint in a mild way, without knowing it. The result 
of further enquiries led to the fact, that milk-maids 
were never known to take the smallpox. This was 
sufficient as a ground work for the enquiring mind of 
Jenner. He immediately turned his attention to this 
class of persons, and soon found they were subject to 
small boils on the fingers, which soon disappeared. He 
found this to be communicated from the ulcerated 
teats of the cow, a disease analogous to the smallpox 
in the human species. Having obtained some of the 
vaccine matter from the udder, he inoculated vnith it 
a boy eight years of age, who went through the 
complaint satisfactorily. Being afterwards inoculated 
without effect, it appeared, that Uke the milk-maid, he 
was now proof against the scourge of the smallpox. 
Like Newton, Jenner had now worked out his theorem, 
establishing the truth of the most valuable law iti 
nature. 



^TSsT*^--- ~J^i 



MR. PAGET. 317 

I well remember the noise the discovery made. 
The nation was divided into two parties. The small 
minority of thinking men, who were wilUng to listen 
to Jenner's arguments, became the laughing stock of 
the community, for supporting such nonsense. My 
Mend, Mr. Paget, the surgeon, then a partner with Mr. 
Mason, was a warm advocate for its introduction into 
Leicester ; but either from jealousy or interest, it was 
violently opposed. The windows of booksellers were 
filled with pictures of men and women with horns 
growing out of their heads,and features transformed into 
those of homed cattle. Seeing a child sitting at a 
door in the Belgrave-gate, whose features were buried 
in one ulcerated scab, I said to the mother, " This 
child has not been inoculated." " No, Sir," said she, 
" I don't hold with it." " You ignorant woman ! " I 
exclaimed : " in France, you would have been sent to 
gaol for endangering the life of your child, and those 
of your neighbours." To those who urged that it 
could not be depended upon, haying been in some 
instances found to fail. Dr. Jenner replied in his 
pamphlet, that the matter should be taken from a 
pock before it had come to its height ; that a pock in 
the decline of the disease lost its power ; but that, 
with this precaution, it never failed. 74 Physicians 
testified to the value of the discovery — Government 
ordered it to be adopted in the. army and navy — ^the 
surgeons of the fleet struck a gold medal upon the 
occasion — Oxford presented him with his Doctor's 



318 EMPEROR OF RUSSIA. Chap. 65. 

degree — he was chosen Fellow of the Royal Society, 
and Parliament awarded him the sum of thirty 
thousand pounds ! 

Notwithstanding such confirmation, it was but 
slowly adopt in this country — ^not more than one-fifth 
of the children bom were offered for vaccination. Like 
the modem music, thousands at first derided it, but 
I have lived to see the same persons applaud it. The 
extension of the benefits of vaccination to foreign 
countries, spread the fame of the discoverer. He 
received congratulations irom all the potentates in 
Europe. The Emperor of Russia, when here, sought 
an interview with him, and bestowed on him the 
highest order of nobihty. Platoff, in addressing 
Jenner, said : — " Sir, you have extinguished the most 
pestilential disorder that ever affected mankind." In 
Russia, more than ten in every hundred died. In 
Persia, the annual mortality was forty thousand, which 
is now reduced to one thousand. What benefits have 
we derived fi'om this man ! He has saved more hves 
than war has destroyed in the last hundred years, and 
what small honor has been done him, compared with 
that lavished upon statesmen, lawyers, and generals. 
His little book is one of more real worth to mankind, 
than all that has been written by the wisest of the 
ancients, or the modems. 



MR. WILLIAMSON, 319 



CHAPTER LXVL 



GOLD. 



Mr. Williamson lately read an interesting lecture upon 
gold, before our Literary and Philosophical Society, 
I am indebted to this gentleman for some curious 
facts, to which I have added some speculations of 
my own. 

The sudden discovery of gold in Califomia, was a 
matter of accident, m cutting a branch for a mill dam, 
when the golden soil was laid open to view. The few 
persons who were on the spot, nearly killed themselves 
with work, but were speedily enriched. The ease 
and certainty with which the gold was procured, soon 
attracted crowds to the spot, at the hazard of their 
lives. Numbers started westward, even from the 
thickly inhabited shores of the United States, in hope 
of finding this land of gold. Without the least 
knowledge or forethought, they had to traverse an 
extent of three or four thousand miles, through a 
country unknown, where civilized man had never set 
foot before. Having to contend with famine and 
the elements, they died by hundreds on the road, and 
left their bleached bones to mark the track, for 



320 SIB E. MURCHI80N. Chap. 65. 

succeeding adventurers. For a time, the reports 

were, by sober-minded people, considered as fabulous ; 

but confirmation so quickly followed, that the whole 

world was set in motion. The success continuing for 

two years, the astounding fact aroused the attention 

of our philosophers. It struck the penetrating mind 

of Sir R. Murchison, that gold was the last formed 

of the metals — ^that it was only to be found in the 

primitive granite rocks, which were pushed up from 

the interior of the earth by internal fire : that at the 

same time, the gold was subhmed or volatiUzed into 

the crevices and crystalline substances, of which the 

rocks are formed. Hence, gold is usually found 

on or near to the earth's surface. The ores 

and crystals having been exposed to the dissolving 

power of the elements and carried down by the 

rains, .with gravel, sand, and clay, into the plains 

below, formed an alluvial soil extending for miles. 

It is found in the beds of rivers, on their banks, in 

chinks, and ravines. The mud that contains the 

particles is washed in a bowl ; these, by their gravity, 

sink to the bottom, and are easily collected. The 

Ural Mountains that divide Europe from Asia, is 

the only part in this quarter of the globe where gold 

has been found in considerable quantities. 

It is now found that the mountains in Cahfomia are 
of the same formation as the Ural chain. Geology has 
clearly established the fact, that gold is uniformly found 
under the same conditions — that is, in the primary 






8 O N G . 




^Jil ♦- 







Gft you g-tjiio ytft y<m gone O why do jua 



^^fe-^ 




— # r J J • * ^ — *- 




voo me If yog lovf if you love me O dont dont par. 




.sue me Let that in cli na tioii 




Let that in cli na ti 




f^ ft 



' r 1 ^ ^ I 



-T.& 




^ 



^^^^^^» 



pe_rish which 1 dare no lon.g^jr cherish Gtt 



^ -I S 



'^^ 





£ 



g'one g*et you g*one 

^ ^ T 'r: r^ 



My girL_ish 



• 



m 




iM 



3^3 



were " h11 for yon > Snch 



w 

as tin 



i 




^ 



i 



then 



.n rs . ^ 



ne_ -ver ne_ -ver kn^w. 



new. ^^^^ 






MR. LATROBE. 325 

group of rocks. Recent explorations in Australia 
showed that the mountains are similar to those 
in Califomia. Geologists immediately visited the 
country, and on the very first spot where they com-, 
menced their search, found the auriferous earth 
richer and more pure than that of Califomia. Such is 
the erte,t of the» golden pW»., that Mr. Hardy 
says, five thousand washers of the soil, on the 
banks of the Turon river alone, would be lost 
in the space. Mr. Latrobe, the governor of Victoria, 
was present at the washing of two tin dishes of blue 
clay (20 inches in diameter,) which yielded eight 
pounds weight of pure gold. It is m the blue or 
chocolate coloured clays that the gold is most abundant, 
but it is never found in the pipeclay just below. Dr. 
Kerr obtained a lump which he sold for four thousand 
pounds. The expectations of the future yield surpass the 
height of credulity. When the theory of Sir Roderick 
Murchison becomes more generally known, many 
localities will probably be searched with success. The 
persons engaged in the Australian plains, are of a 
superior class to the reckless blood-thirsty crowd upon 
the banks of the Sacramento. The following I copy 
from a sketch by Mr. Ryan, who visited that conmiu- 
nity. He says : — 

"The hardships the gold-washer undergoes— 
the fevers and agues which assail him, and the lottery 
he throws into — ^to say nothing of the hordes of 
gamblers and thieves he has to encounter before he 



326 GOLDEN PARADISE. Chap. 66. 

pockets his first fragment of gold are amazing, and we 
hope it may do some good in cheeking the rage with 
which many have joined in the heart-stirring song — 

"Oh! CaUfornia, 

That's the land for me : 
Tm bound for Sacramento, 

With my wash-bowl on my knee." 

Mr. Ryan met with a sturdy fellow from the 
States proceeding to the higher regions, near Bob 
Livermore's farm. The following parley took place 
between these leather-coated citizens, armed to the 
teeth with rifle, pistols, and long knives, both on their 
way to the golden Paradise : — " What luck have you 
had at the mines ?" " Darned Kttle ; we n^ade jist 
enough to pay our way along the road." " What 
chance do you think we'll have?" Well, I guess 
you'll have chance enough, but darned few sartainties. 
Unless you keep your eyes skinned, and sleep without 
winking, they'll steal the very nose off your face." 
" How are you off for provender for horses ?" " There 
aint a blade of grass on the whole darned country. If 
it wam't that this 'tamal crittur of mine managed to 
live upon acorns and rotten stone, I guess as how 
he'd ha' been a gonner some weeks ago. But don't 
let this scar you, for there's mountains of gold if you 
can only get at it. Good night my trumps, I wish 
you luck." 

Since the rate of importation of gold has arrived 
at not less than twenty millions a year, there is an 



peel's bill. 327 

apprehension pervading the public mind, that every- 
thing will be raised in price ; so much so, that those 
depending upon the funds and other fixed incomes, will 
become relatively lowered in wealth, as their incomes 
will not purchase so much as before. No doubt this 
would be the case, if the whole of this gold could not 
be kept in circulation — employed as active capital — 
or used in the arts and manufactures. But that is 
impossible. Gold will find its way to that spot 
where it is most wanted. When I was in Paris in 
1802, 1 discounted a bill at Perigeaux, for which I 
received a bag of silver. I demanded gold, because 
I could not carry silver. I might have gold, but I 
must pay a premium for it. So it was in this country, 
when we were involved in the war, and the funds 
were at forty-nine. 

Peel's bill placed the credit of the Enghsh currency 
upon a sound basis. The moment it was enacted 
that a bank note could be converted into gold, there 
wa« instantly an end of hoarding. Where credit does 
not exist, gold is most in demand. This is the case 
on the Continent at the present time. We require 
very httle gold in our circulation, as our mighty con- 
cerns are chiefly carried on by a* paper currency, 
which, in England, is just as good as gold. 

The supply of gold has not equalled the demand 
during the last twenty years. Elkington and Ma- 
son, of Birmingham, use 300 ounces of silver every 
day in their works, and gold in proportion. The quan- 



328 MINT IN AUSTRALIA. Chap. 66- 

tity used for the ordinary purposes of gilding is immense^ 
particularly in picture-frames and the new art of 
electrotype, and gilding in the potteries. A great 
portion of this never returns, and, with wear and tear, 
is utterly lost — so that twenty millions may be yearly 
absorbed in the various requirements of the currency, 
arts, and manufactures. 

If the anticipated extension of trade should be 
realized, we shall shortly see the ten thousand young 
females now engaged in the Leicester manufactory, 
vie with each other in purchasing ornamental articles 
in gold. But above all, the grand event that I look 
to is the establishment of a mint in Australia. Then, 
the gold found in such abundance, will be coined and 
spread over the vast space of the Eastern Archipelago, 
where no coin at present exists. It will go to pur- 
chase the various commodities of a world, at present 
scarcely known, all of which will be transported to the 
warehouses of London, to be disseminated through- 
out Europe, America, and the most distant parts of 
the globe. If double the quantity of gold could be 
collected, it would instantly be absorbed by the 
increasing requirements of society and commerce. 
The paper currency on the Continent will soon be 
supplanted by the precious metals, which will be 
brought from England, and' a fresh supply will be 
required to keep up our own currency. To talk of 
having too much gold is as absurd as to talk of having 
too much machinery, or too much food. 



829 



CHAPTER LXVII. 



Beethoven's statue. 



In the year 1793, 1 first became acquainted with 
the compositions of Beethoven, and ventured to ex- 
press a very different opinion of their merits to that 
generally entertained at the time, which was, that they 
were the result of a distracted mind. I ventured to 
predict that he would extend the art in a way never 
contemplated by Haydn or Mozart.* So slow 
were his own countrymen, as well as the English, to 
apprehend the sublimities that lay hid in his com- 
positions, that it was not tiU twenty years after his 
death that a statue was erected to his memory at 
his birth place, Bonn, on the Rhine. I was present at 
the inauguration of this statue, August 12th, 184S. 

This event seemed to interest all Europe. Crowds 
of professors and talented amateurs assembled to do 
honour to this great genius. You could not move in 
any direction v^ithout hearing conversations in French, 
Oerman, Italian, Russian, and English, as the various 
groups paraded the city. Flags of all these nations 
were placed on the tops of the houses. Trees and 
flowers were planted in the streets. The King and 
Queen of Prussia, the Prussian Court, Queen Vic- 
toria and Prince Albert, and the English Court, honored 

* Fide Lives of Haydn and Mozart. 



380 POSTHUMOUS MASS. Chap. 67. 

this splendid festival with their presence. The music 
was under the direction of Liszt, who at his own ex- 
pense, erected a music hall, to contain five thousand 
persons. The band consisted of six hundred per- 
formers who voluntarily came from all parts of Ger- 
many to assist in the celebration. 

The evening performance commenced with the 
Posthumous Mass, the most wonderful of all Beet- 
hoven's inspirations. It is cast upon a scale too 
vast for the ordinary service of the Catholic Church. 
He intended it for the solemn occasion of the crovraing 
or death of a monarch. It opens with a grand 
burst from all the instruments. As this sound dies 
away, a soft breathing note steals from the voices of 
the females, as if it had begun on the other side of 
the Rhine. Into this creeps a lower tone from the 
mezzo, followed by the mellifluous tenor; a combination 
of harmony so luscious, as to wrap the soul in fcwget- 
fulness — during which, for a time, it remains uncon- 
scious of everything, but the music of another world. 
To describe this magical work would be a vain attempt. 
Since I returned, I have met with a more sober de- 
scription from the pen of Mr. Hogarth : — " The mass 
was generally regarded as an incomprehensible pro- 
duction, the depths of which (if they really were depths) 
it was impossible to fathom. This opinion, I con- 
fess, I adopted ; but, however mistaken, it was con- 
scientiously formed. Nobody in England tried to 
perform it ; and an examination of the score was the 



Beethoven's statue. 331 

only means of judging. As happened to many others, 
after poring for hours over its ponderous pages, the 
* only result was absolute bewilderment among its 
mazes, * black despair succeeded brown study,' and 
the hopeless task was laid aside. Such is the general 
case in England at this day, where the Missa Solennis 
is as completely unknown as on the day it was pub- 
lished. The Germans, however, have mastered it, and 
the performance of last night displayed it in all its 
grandeur and beauty. To attempt, by analysis, or 
description, to give an idea of it to those who have 
not heard it, would be absurd and ridiculous. 
Technical phraseology, and conventional epithets of 
admiration and deUght might be heaped together 
without end, and the whole would amount to nothing. 
It has no prototype in any previous work of ,the same 
class. In the whole conception of the subject — in 
the intense, yet truthful expression of every mood of 
devotional feeKng — adoration, thanksgiving, the sigh- 
ing of a contrite spirit, the most earnest suppKcation — 
in the artistical construction of the work, its melodies, 
its vocal and instrumental combinations — all is new 
and original, the fresh inspiration of the most daring 
genius. Like all great and original works of art, it 
will be slowly understood and appreciated ; but the 
time will come, (though I shall not live to see it,) 
when the Missa Solennis of Beethoven will be re- 
garded as we now regard the greatest works of 
Handel" 



332 BEETHOVEN^S STATUE. 

It must strike every one, as a curious and extra- 
ordinary fact, that Beethoven was impenetrably deaf 
when he wrote this divine inspiration. He penned it 
in the middle of a wood, near to Vienna ; and of this, 
as weD as the Choral Symphony, he never heard a 
single sound. 

No person has been more aUve to good music 
than myself. I have been present at the best per- 
formances in this country for many years ; but that at 
Bonn so surpassed all I had ever heard, that my 
senses were taken by surprise, and I was so completley 
captivated and thrown into a state of such agitation 
as to be obliged to leave the hall, without hearing the 
choral symphony, which immediately followed. When 
my friends returned, they found me in bed, and soon 
sent a physician to me. I told him, when feeling 
my pulse, that I was rarely ill, and never took physic, 
and that my pulse hardly ever varied from sixty. 
" But you are ill, sir," he replied (for he spoke good 
English) ; your pulse is ninety-five." To be sure, then, I 
thought, I must be ill. However, with sKght assistance, 
and keeping my room the next day, I settled down to 
quietness and was restored for the next morning. 

Tuesday morning opened without a cloud, and in 
addition to the flags placed at the top of every building, 
the front of every house was nearly obscured by green 
foliage and umbrageous trees. The preparation for 
the processions took place at the Hotel Belle Vue, 
where the different bodies were marshalled. 



:i:n 



PRAYER. 

Sol«nnt>in«nte . 



Subject B««thtiv«it 









i a. . fi. > ni te Hrt_ thou 



^ 



tJy boun te ons 





i 



g'oodiiess 



ev> er 



flows . , . . 



i 




«i 



'J 'J .> 





■»A< 



mer cies 



iB^-J^^ 





M J;il. 



^^ 



* 



^"^ bounteous hand bex •'' * 

^v stows 



^i 





thou TKv boi 



m 




T}^ b oun- ^tfcous^ gif ts We evi ^ > r 





evi ^^._:nin 



^^p 



ll'i^W 




MASS IN c. 337 

At half-past eight, they proceeded to the Market- 
place. First the band royal and infantry ; next the 
Yagers or Freyschutz; and then the students of the uni- 
versity, eight hundred in number : these were divided 
into separate nations or corps of landmanschaft ; at the 
head of each were three knights in armour, vdth ostrich 
feathers in their helmets ; some white, some pink, 
some blue, like knights of old. These formed a line 
near the Cathedral, for the dignitaries of the church to 
walk through. Then came the Town Council, the 
civil and military authorities, the deputation, and the 
committee. This picturesque procession arrived at 
the Minster at nine o'clock, when the service opened 
with Beethoven's divine Mass in C. The grand 
orchestra was placed behind the high altar, at the 
sides of which were beautiful trees growing in boxes 
of native soil, towering to the roof. The spaces were 
so filled with the richest flowers and plants, that the 
performers were completely hidden from view. The 
Minster was crowded in every niche arid corner, 
leaving a vast crowd of visitors without. When the 
music commenced, softly flowing with delicious 
melody, we scarcely knew from whence it came, and the 
hundred and fifty female voices pouring forth the 
lowest tones, produced a harmony deeply religious, 
and of unspeakable grandeur. 

Those parts of the mass which are only chanted, 
were upon this occasion performed at the western end 
of the church, by the usual choir, accompanied by the 

s 



338 QUEEN VICTORIA. Chap. 67. 

stupendous organ there. The responses from the 
distant part were subUme, which, with the dresses 
and genuflexions of the priests, the swinging of tlie 
burning censers, formed a dramatic scene that was 
splendid and imposing. 

The moment the service was over, crowds ran in all 
directions to theMunster-square, in which the statue was 
placed. The sun shone gloriously. The heavens seenaed 
to take part in the exultation of the day. Platforms 
were erected for three or four thousand spectators. 
Immediately round the statue was a corps of Freyschutz- 
ers,in their fanciful hunting dresses. The regiments and 
bands were in the exterior. A rattle of carriages 
announced that the Potentates were coming, who 
alighted at the mansion of Count Furstenburg, when 
presently appeared in a crimson balcony, fringed with 
gold, the King and Queen of Prussia, the Queen of 
England and Prince Albert, who were loudly wel- 
comed by the gazing crowd. I stated that the statue 
was curtained up ; round which were placed the 
Preyschutzers ; upon a signal given, they fired a volley 
— ^the curtains fell. - The cannon on the ramparts, on 
the Rhine, on the forts, the bells in all the 
steeples, the military bands, and the shouts of thirty 
thousand people, burst forth in such joy and harmony, 
as the world had never heard before ! If the dead do^ 
revisit earth, what a triumph for the poor deaf, de- 
serted musician ! The powerful of Europe, nay, of 
the world were at his feet. 



THE STATUE. 339 

The statue, thirty feet high, is clothed in a classical 
robe, and cast in bronze. 

The sculptor has imagined^ the great composer to 
be in a moment of inspiration ; he gazes upward^ his 
countenance beaming with the light of thought, and 
he is, as if unconsciously, raising his right hand to fix 
the strain of melody caught with the inward ear, upon 
the paper which he holds in his left. 

The whole impression of the figure is that of a 
man of great genius and powerful will, precisely 
Beethoven's nature. A parchment recording the date 
and facts of the inauguration was prepared, first signed 
by the Potentates, and then by the committee, which, 
with the posthumous miss, written in Beethoven's own 
hand, were about to be soldered up in a leaden case, 
and to be deposited in the basement ' of the statue, 
when Professor Walter, of the University, observed, 
that an English gentleman was present, who was bom 
ill the same year with Beethoven, and who was the 
first person that introduced his music into that country ; 
and though contrary to all order, he proposed that 
that gentleman should be honoured by affixing his 
name to the document. I ascended the steps of the 
pedestal, and with a trembling hand would have written 
my name, but there was scarcely room : there was, 
however, a space just under Victoria and Albert, when 
one and all called out, " Anglais ! Anglais ! " and I was 
ordered to write my name there — an honour I could 
never have expected, and the greatest I ever received 

s 2 



340 TAIRY DALE. Chap. 68. 

in my life. Perhaps the raost beautiful eflFect in the 
performance was the part sustained by one hundred 
and fifty female voices in the choir — ^young ladies, 
the accomplished daughters of the clergy, gentry, 
merchants, farmers, tradesmen, and professors, who 
sang with an enthusiastic taste and feeling, that could 
not be surpassed. 



CHAPTER LXVIII. 



FAIRY DALE. 



I visited my friend Beatty, in Fairy Dale, a quiet 
nook, in a northern county, shut out from the world. 
The Chateau, small and elegant, stands upon a bank, 
with a trout-stream below. On the opposite hill is a 
grove of birch trees, where innumerable squirrels are 
frolicking in the branches. 

An old tradition says, that on warm summer nights, 
in the bright moonshine, when not a breath of air is 
stirring, fairies hold their revels on the greensward, 
under a wide-spreading oak. The belief is strength- 
ened by the rings which appear on the grass in the 
morning — ^the undoubted marks of their roundelays 
and dances. Some persons, less poetical, will 
have it that these rings are made by mushrooms, 
which spring into life in the night time. True or 
false, the spot has obtained the name of Fairy Bale. 



SONATA BEETHOVEN. 341 

My friend had just brought home from the 
Garonne, an interesting young wife, a native of that 
country, beautifully fair, delicate and sylph-like; she was 
the very person to inhabit this silent retreat. Her hus- 
band, a noisy spirited sportsman, fond of hunting, 
fishing, and driving, was incessantly engaged in the 
roughest sports, in which his fair partner was ill 
adapted to join. A day with my friend out of doors 
was rather more than I liked. I was always ready 
to turn my face homeward for a neat French dinner 
that awaited us, with a bottle of choice Bordeaux. It 
was a luxury in the evening to loll in a well stuflFed 
arm chair, and listen to a pianoforte sonata of Beet- 
hoven, exquisitely played by Miss S., a friend of 
madame. Ladies play the pianoforte and harp more 
to my taste than men. Even Bochsa's touch is too 
rude for my ears. 

Beethoven has surpassed every preceding writer 
in this class of composition. He has penetrated the 
hidden powers of the instrument, and has brought 
out effects never before heard. No instrument is so 
capable of giving those delicate shades of sound with 
truth, as the pianoforte. A delightful effect is that 
graceful tissue of harmony which he throws round his 
melodies. Of the hundred pieces he has written for 
this instrument, those without accompaniment 
exhibit the greatest genius; they are the most 
poetic and complete, as their execution depends 
solely upon an individual mind. As examples. 



342 qUEBN MAB.* Chap. 68. 

turn to those dedicated to Haydn, which he 
published in his twenty-second year. 

A visit to Fairy Dale invariably improved my 
health and spirits. To take the rough with the 
smooth is the most rational way of getting through 
life. The literary man and merchant at the desk, by 
their unvarying sedentary habits, make as great a 
mistake as the fox-hunter who unremittingly follows 
the hounds for six months together. Variety in our 
pursuits — ^taken with moderation — Pleads to cheerful- 
ness and health. Bred and bom in a large town, 
visits like these give an enjoyment not easily to be 
expressed. 

The following song I left with my Mends in 
conmiemoration of Fairy Dale : — 

SONG.-.(Page 310.) 

. " Queen Mab now found a hazel nut. 
In the end of which a hole was cut 
By the tooth of master Squirrel. 

'' Come in, come in, to this nut, said she. 
Come closely in — ^be ruled by me, 
Each one may here a chooser be, 
For room you need not wrestle. 

'* Nor need you be together heaped. 
So one by one, therein they crept. 
And lying down, they soundly slept. 
As safe as in a castle." 



343 



CHAPTER LXIX. 



GENIUS. 



In a long life, what an array of shining characters 
have I seen ! Some have blazed for a time, like comets, 
which appear conspicuous in the heavens for a time, 
and then suddenly disappear. Others, burning with 
a less brilliant hght, have steadily shone through the 
whole of their Kves. Genius is composed of inflam- 
able materials, that soon bum out. Mozart, Parcel, 
Bellini, and Donizetti, all expired in their thirty-third 
year ; while Paisiello, Handel, and Haydn, less incan- 
descent, lasted for more than twice that time. Ano- 
ther class have a just claim to the title of genius, who 
trifle away the best of their days. They have inven- 
tion enough, but lack industry. Ease and indulgence 
is what they prefer. They loiter, and never finish the 
work they have conmienced. They are clever in short 
flights, but unsuccessful in great ones. Idleness is a 
distemper from which few are free. To get the better 
of this time-consuming vice. Dr. Johnson recommends, 
when we begin to work, to go doggedly at it : write 
the first line though it be nonsense — only begin, and 
half the difficxilty is overcome. What is more unsa- 
tisfactory than finding our time imperceptibly sUding 
away to no purpose. When PKny went a fowling or 
fishing, while the nets were being got ready, he put 



344 MB. ADDISON. Chap. 69. 

down what was passing in his mind, so that if he had 
no game to bring home, he brought home his own 
thoughts that were of use to him. How often do we 
see men, who, by dint of plodding, achieve important 
works, and make up their want of talent, by an un- 
wearied apphcation. 

Cheerfulness of temper is absolutely necessary to 
produce anything good or great. It is a received 
notion abroad that we in England are the most melan- 
choly people on earth. Mr. Addison quotes a French 
novelist who enters thus upon his story : — " In the 
gloomy month of November, when the people of Eng- 
land hang and drown themselves, a disconsolate lover 
walked out into the field," &c., &c. Every one should 
bear up against little evils and misfortunes common 
to human nature, if they would partake of the happi- 
ness in store for them. 

There is a class of individuals who are always 
complaining of their fate, and drag out a miserable 
existence, described in the following lines : — 

SONG.— (Page 367.) 

" How we dally out our days, 
How we seek a thousand ways, 
To find out death ; the which if none, 
We take our course, will show us one. 

** Never was there morning yet, 
Sweet as is the violet, 
Which man's folly did not soon. 
Wish expired ere 'twas noon. 



I'limjiiih HHV in nt> d« Di_iil 




Kv^SBFKS 



347 



.Jus»- ' for tis» M trick' 



^^ 



^ 





^.M T ^ ^: 



t hut women iiKe WJiat tliev 



^^=f^ 



r 




^sl 




S=S 



^J> * 



they will re— fube 



i 



fm. 



thty will pf-- 



=1^ 



-^ 1 





\mru 



INFANT SCHOOLS. 349 

" Be it joy, or be it sorrow, 
We refer all to the morrow ; 
Well, the next day comes, and then, 
Another next, and so to ten : 

" To twenty we arrive, and find. 
No solid joy is left behind ; 
And at last of life bereaved, 
Die unhappy, and deceived." 



CHAPTER LXX. 



INFANT SCHOOLS. 



To mingle pleasure with instruction is the surest 
mode of fastening in the memory what it is desirable 
to retain. If we watch children at play, we find 
them to delight in repeating snatches of- tunes and 
rhymes, in their gambols. The ear takes pleasure in 
the recurrence of similar sounds at regular intervals. 
These spontaneous ebullitions of mirth and gaiety 
contain germs of melody, which our composers have 
used as hints in forming the subjects of their learned 
compositions. 

Every one knows what a help it is to the memory 
when facts are recorded in verse. How often do we 
repeat the well-known distitch — 

" Thirty days hath September, 
April, June, and November," 

before we venture to date our letter. It is said that 



350 



SUNDAY MORNING. 



Chap. 71. 



in the early stages of society, all the laws were written 
in verse, and sung, that they might be better remem- 
bered. Ask a singer to repeat the words of his song, 
and he cannot do it ; let him sing it, and he is at no 
loss for the words. Alliteration assists the memory. 
We often find it in the construction of proverbs and 
old sayings, as dead dogs don't bite : when the steed is 
stolen shut the stable door. On the establishment of 
infant schools in Leicester, I was requested to furnish 
the young aspirants with some simple songs, suitable 
to their understanding and voice, and I had the satis- 
faction of hearing the four little songs (page 382) 
sung with spirit and pleasure. It was obvious that 
the children comprehended both the words and the 
music, and entered into it with all the enthusiasm 
of a hundred professional performers. Slight as this 
tuition is, it will awaken Sei sense for harmonious sounds 
in the rising generation, and do much towards laying 
the foundation of a more general taste for music in 
England. 



CHAPTER LXXL 



SUNDAY MOBNINO. 



How welcome the return of this quiet day of rest ! 
With what pleasure have I taken my early walk, stroll- 
ing through the flowery fields of Evington and Stough- 



HYMN. 851 

ton Grange, when the trees in spring time were 
putting on their leafy robes ! Here have I wandered 
*mid nature's charms, before the sun had swept away 
the morning dew. and have listened to the chime of 
church bells wafted over the breezy hill. There is a 
sacred sound in that morning peal, that lifts the soul 
on high. The return of this day brought me my 
great dehght— that of raising my boyish voice in the 
anthem strains of Playford, Knapp and Tansur — ^the 
only book of sacred music then in print. 

As years roll on, what wonders doth time unfold ! 
The astronomer detects new worlds among the stars. 
The chemist lays open the laws of life, and the musician 
discovers new combinations of sounds. So have I 
lived to enjoy in the sacred art, a higher taste — ^a new 
delight. Simple as are the following notes, thrown to- 
gether by the hand of Beethoven, what a lofty song of 
praise do they breathe ! an invocation worthy to be 
addressed to the Great Supreme. 

HYMN.— (Page 834.) 

" Lord my God ! how infinite are thou ; 
Thy bounteous gifts are every evening new ; 
From thee, O Lord, thy goodness ever flow*; 
What mercies, Lord, thy bounteous hand bestows !" * 

* I have adapted the above words (for which I am answer- 
able) to a pianoforte sonata of Beethoven's ; and this is the only 
vocal music given in the present work which is not my own com- 
position. 



CHAPTER LXXU. 



In the first chapter of this volume, I have spoken 
f my cradle thoughts. I will now allude to dreams, 
8 they seem to be connected with the phenomena of 
he mind. The state of sleep is very analogous to the 
ffects produced on the brain by intoxication, inducing 
>i^etfulne8s of the past, and neglect of the future. 
!ome maintain that, during sleep, the soul is disen- 
angled from the body, and thus uncontrolled, will 
ometimes wander in the most whimsical flights. 
Jewton and Milton were of opinion that our minds 
re more strongly impressed with scenes of beauty or 
f terror, in our dreams, than by real objects when 
wake; and that when we awake with these vivid 
mpressiona on the mind, we return to an existence 
hat is flat and stale, compared to that experienced in 
hese glowing visions. 

The tale of Tartini dreaming that he heard the 
levil play upon the violin, and the rapture he felt on 
raking, well illustrates this exalted sensibility of the 
oul. I have awakened with most exquisite strains in 
ay ears, so clearly impressed that I thought I could 
lave put them correctly down ; but, like a dissolving 
iew, the whole has vanished before I could put pen 
a paper. The freshness of dreams may aptly be 



LORD BROUGHAM. 358 

compared to the vivid fancy of a ctild. Everything is 
magnified, v^hether of pleasure or pain. A child de- 
prived of its plaything suffers more than a monarch at 
the loss of a kingdom. To illustrate these feelings, let 
us call up a few common incidents in our dreams. 
Pursued by a n\onster, or wild beast, we are on the 
point of being seized ; or, falling from a great height, 
are about to be dashed to pieces, — ^we wake and find 
ourselves safe in bed ! Who has not felt the delight 
of skimming through the air, as if the soul had rid 
itself of the weight of the body ? Sometimes in a 
dream we feel bewildered or lost — ^perhaps separated 
from a companion or dog, followed by an excess of joy 
on meeting again. 

If dreams are to be ascribed to innate ideas, as well 
as to waking thoughts, we need not wonder at their 
incoherence, as during sleep the reasoning powers are 
dormant. A dream of my childhood has haunted me 
through life. Early dreams of this intensity present 
themselves, with sundry modifications, over and over 
again. As we grow older, the imagination is not so 
easily excited, and our dreams accord more with reality. 
Lord Brougham is of opinion that we only dream when 
just on the point of waking ; that what we suppose to 
be the finish of a dream, is, in fact, the beginning, 
middle, and end of it, so quick is thought. 

It may be considered presumptuous in me to hazard 
an opinion upon the cause of our dreams ; but as I 
have watched the phenomena with more than ordinary 



854 ^OIJAN HARP. Chap. 72. 

attention, I may be forgiven, even if I am wrong The 
moment digestion is about to begin, a heavy drowsi- 
ness comes over us, and when the process is fairly set 
in, the inlets of sense — ^the eyes, ears, &c. — close, and 
we become nearly as unconscious of the outer world, 
as if we were dead. Under the process of digestion 
the body is resuscitated. Sensorial power is generated 
to supply the wasted energies of the previous day. 
During this operation, the sensorium being cut off 
from outward impressions, is now affected by the 
interior workings of the body. This action, whether 
caused by improper food, or uneasy posture, excites 
the brain to a repetition of mental vibrations. The 
effect may be compared to the eliciting of sound from 
a musical instrument ; as, for instance, by the wind 
playing upon the strings of an iEolian harp, the music 
of which is wild and incoherent ; but when an 
instrument is touched by the hand of science, the 
sounds are rational and pleasing — ^analagous to the 
vibrations of the brain under the control of reason. 



J 



355 



CHAPTER LXXIII. 



Handel's Messiah. 



In the first volume of this work I speak of the 
Messiah having been composed by Handel, at Gopsal 
Hall, in this county, then the seat of Mr. Jenners. This 
accomplished gentleman selected the words for this 
divine oratorio from the Scriptures. The Gopsal estate 
has since descended to Earl Howe, who inherits the 
taste of the founder. It is now sixty years since I 
went to Gopsal, in hopes of finding the manuscripts 
of the great German, in the fine library there, and 
learnt that they had been removed to Lord Aylesford's. 
It is to be regretted that they did not descend with 
the mansion as heir-looms to Earl Howe, who has at 
all times been a distinguished patron of music. I 
met an old servant, the gardener, who told me he 
recollected very well the "great musicianer often 
comin' wi' four long tailed blacks to his master's." I 
expressed my surprise, and said " you don't mean a 
coach and four." "Aye gramercy, but I do, an' he'd ha' 
stuck fast, and ne'er gotten here wi' less than four ; 
good'uns as they war." His lordship, knowing that I 
had often stated that the Messiah had its origin in his 
mansion, sent me a work lately pubhshed by an Irish 
barrister — Mr. Townsend — in which he states that 



356 MESSIAH. Chap. 73. 

the Messiah was written expressly for a charity in 
DubUn, and there first performed. I am unwilling 
that we should be robbed of the eclat to which Lei- 
cestershire is entitled, and boldly maintain that the 
statement of this writer is erroneous. According to 
Mr. Townsend, the oratorio was begun to be composed 
August 22, 1741; the first part was finished by 
the 28th ; the second part by Scptemberthe 6th ; and 
the third part by the 18th — the whole being accom- 
plished in three weeks. These statements are made 
upon the authority of a newspaper ; but no person who 
is at all acquainted with the nature of such a per- 
formance will give credit to them. This is confessedly 
the finest and most elaborate of his compositions. It 
could scarcely have been transcribed in the time. 
Constant interviews must have taken place ^between 
the arranger of the w^ords and the miisunan, and much 
consideration given, even before the plan and musical 
effect of the work could be fixed — especially as Han- 
del was a foreigner* I should say twelve months, 
rather than .iiree weeks, would be nearer the truth, 
to perfect a work of such magnitude and skill. 

Handel being opposed by the nobility, who had 
taken the management of the opera out of his hands, 
probablyretired in disgust from the theatre, for he wrote 
no opera afterwards. His genius was directed to a 
higher order of composition, the Oratorio; and a 
spacious music hall having been just erected in Dublin, 
might determine him to bring out the Messiah in that 



SONG. 

fiotlo voce. 



4r-:ii. 



sono voc'e. . \ ^^ 



How wt* dulJy out our ci.tys 



I 



is 








\ - 



• I 



n 



^rt^ 



How we Meek h thoiiSHiid ways 



hi find <'iif 





■ ^J^j aj .ii.ii j . i ^ 

to find out aenth The which it 



The which it 




>^r~ MrM-i ..=M J=^t:^. l 



none we take oiu* e<i iirst? wil l sh ow ns one wi ll 





tVM 



:^^^^i^ 




^^^ 




|ffe*d?jg^^ 



■4^ Ne ver Was tluTe iborn^-iuff 




^i^rt^^ 




y^t S%.vtf as i^ the vi_-o— J^ nrhuh maoH fo^Jy ^ °*^ 









soon fvibh ex- .piit^, Vrt* turns noj^ 



-ifEE±!g3^ 





Major. 







;f^^ 







r^^ 



ir f weU the next day c<^mi's, ami ilwn h no ther 



mitrrow r weU the next 





Minort*. 



iJ^. iT J w I i -^nny!!--^" 








Hiid (1( 



p^ 




3 




^ 



^M 




^^=^ 



\^ 



t=5-- 



_-teivt;d- nu hapL.ny niu..rHap_py mi huu.py 

m 





d lib. 






__h4p_py. ^ Hnd de eeived. 



2 



m 



irdB 



— ^r— 



P 



r\0 



HORN PI PE. 




' stacv. , I V> 







i_ 




u^ii 



^^^^^i^ 



m 



-& 




HANBEL AT CHESTER. 361 

more suitable edificp than the London theatres. To 
show the erroneous conclusion Mr. Townsend has 
come to, I quote his work still further. He says : — 
" Handel arrived at Chester on his way to Ireland, 
November 5fch, 1774, and was detained there thirteen 
days." This wiU be recollected by the weU-known 
aoecdpte of HaodeL finding fault with one of the 
Chester singers^ whom he engaged to try over some 
of his emendations, saying, " You schountrel! tit not 
you dell me dat you could sing at soite." " Yes sir, 
and so J cam, but not hi first sight." Immedi;ately on 
Handel arriving in Ireland, he began a series of 
muskiftl performances, in which he introduced Alew- 
andma Feast, Acis and Gahtea, Attegro et Penseroso, 
with his Anthems, Te Deums, ^c, which performances 
lasted for more than five months, — ^when a first re- 
hearsal of his Messiah was announced, April 24th, 
1742. During this interval, no doubt the author had 
been busily employed in perfecting his grand work. 

I will now revert to some previous facts that will 
at once settle this question. Professor Mitinwaring, 
who wrote the life of Handel the year after his death, 
says (page 131), "The Messiah had met with a cold 
reception — either the sense of musical excellencie was 
become so weak, or the power of prejudices so strong, 
that all the effects of Handel's genius and industry 
proved ineffectual." There can be no doubt that the 
Messiah was written a year or more before the time 
Mr. Townsend fixes upon ; that it was certainly first 

T 



362 MR. CRADOCK, OF GUMLEY. Chap. 74. 

performed in London, I learnt from a conversation 
I had with Mr. Gradock, of Gumley, who told me 
that Mr. Mainwanng was present at the performance, 
and that at the end of the second part, he heard 
Handel cry out "Go to the Hdldujah" This originally 
was the finishing chorus, and its bold and striking 
effect, brought in at that moment, saved the oratorio. 
From this circumstance the Hallelujah still remains as 
the conclusion of the second part, though it should 
properly conclude the performance. It must strike 
every one that the Amen chorus, though an excellent 
organ fiigue, is out of place — ^it has none of the blase 
of the HaUdnjah, There is sufficient precedent for 
repeating the Hdllehyah to restore the original concep- 
tion of the author, and what can be more magnificent 
than the words, the Lord God omnipotent reigneti^^ 
crowning with splendour, this, the sublimest of all 
his works ! 



CHAPTER LXXIV. 



ASTRONOMY. 



In the second volume of this work, I mention the' 
circumstance of Joseph Mills, a shoemaker, in Leicester, 
who calculated the path of Halley's comet, when it 
was expected to return, after seventy-five years absence, 
in 1835. This he did by drawing its orbit upon his 



halley's comet. 363 

house floor, from which he made a diagram that more 
accurately represented the course of the comet than 
any that had been pubUshed. I saw this diagram, 
and questioned the humble astronomer how he had 
calculated the disturbing forces so as to come so near 
the truth. This he could not tell me, further than 
that he had performed it by. the common rules of 
arithmetic. It is a curious circumstance worth men- 
tioning, that my father saw this comet in the year 
1759, and lived to see it return, on our Michaelmas 
fair day, (October 10, 1835.) What a thought ! this 
body after travelling 75 years into the remotest regions 
of space, quicker than a cannon ball, to return to 
the very same spot — an instance of the wonderful laws 
that govern the universe, and the powers of the 
human mind in making these calculations. Mr. Mills 
the other day, presented me with a diagram of the 
great solar eclipse which will take place in 1858. Upon 
receiving it, I sent to him the following observations : — 

Although the earth is covered with wonders — 
with innumerable organised animals and plants — 
which in themselves disj^ay the powers of an Al- 
mighty, yet, if we look out at midnight, when na- 
ture has gone to rest, oiu* amazement is stretched to 
the utmost — when we behold above us a vault of 
countless stars. 

What a dull being that must be who is not struck 
with awe at such a sight ! Man may contemplate ob- 
jects within his touch and comprehension, but when 

T 2 




3G4 OBSERVATORY AT GREENWICH. Chap. 74. 

he would penetrate the universe he is lost in its vast- 
ness ! He is lost in the immensity of the Creator. 

In this way was I astonished when my mind first 
opened to the wonders of astronomy. I have watched, 
like you, the phenomena of the heavens through a 
Ibng life, and no subject has given me such high 
satisfaction as the study of the heavenly bodies ; since 
the motion of all the worlds we see is founded upon 
true and incontrovertible laws. 

In the Edinburgh Review, of the first of April, 
1850, I have read with infinite delight an account of 
the daily operations which are going on in the Royal 
Observatory of Greenwich ; and as the knowledge of 
such matters does not lie open to persons in your 
station, I shall give you a short account of them, 
with some remarks of my own, in which, if I am 
wrong, you will set me right. 

The perfection to which this school of the stars 
has arrived, under the direction of the Astronomer 
Royal and his five assistants, is an example of the 
height to which science can attain. Here is concen- 
trated the greatest amount of talent, and the finest 
instruments, that the wealth of England can procure. 

The Italians have long been admitted to be the 
first astronomers in Europe, and under Galileo, Cas- 
sini, and Piazzi, the most brilhant discoveries were 
made ; but it is in England that the grand work is per- 
formed, for the use of navigation, by which we become 
acquainted with every point of the terraqueous globe. 



I 



L 



PARALLAX. 365 

The number of observations necessary to trace and 
mark down the moon's wandering path through 
the heavens, is incredible. According to professor 
Airy, in some instances it has cost £700 or £800 to 
obtain one single fact. It takes thirty equations to 
find her true place, all of which are necessary to find 
our true place on the broad ocean. 

The observations in parallax are highly curious, 
and are worked to the minuteness of the second of a 
degree. i 

Parallax is the result of an observation made upon 
the same object, as a star or planet, by two persons 
set wide apart on the earth's surface ; as, for instance, 
at New York and the Cape of Good Hope. These 
observers refer the apparent place of the object to some 
particular point in the heavens ; just as two persons, 
differently placed in a room, see the candle, and refer 
its apparent place to separate points upon the wall. 

The finest instance of parallax is the view of a 
double star fi*om opposite sides of the earth's orbit, on 
the longest day and the shortest, when she is two 
hundred millions of miles more on one side (when 
viewing the star) than on the other. The observer 
. then, by the aid of a powerful glass, can see the space 
there is between the two stars, which, to the naked 
eye, appear as but a single star. 

Let us show what is meant by the second part of 
a degree. 

All circles, great or small, are divided upon the 



866 THE SECOND OF A DEGREE. Chap. 74. 

rim into three hundred and sixty parts. When we 
stand on an elevated spot, with the circle of the hori- 
Bon around us, as far as we can see ; let us suppose 
ourselves standing on the nave of a wheel, large enough 
to fill up the whole space before us ; if the wheel had 
860 spokes, they would represent the divisions marked 
upon a circle, however great or small. 

To show the extreme nicety of astronomical 
observations, it is found that a hair of the head, 
when held within three feet of the eye, is just equal 
in its thickness, or, we may say, in its breadth, to the 
small part of a degree called a second; and that a 
cricket ball, at the distance of eight miles, is just equal 
to the second of a degree upon a circle of eight miles 
radius, but is invisible without a glass. Such is the 
nicety requisite in measuring a degree upon the eartVs 
surface, that the error of a second in the first opera- 
tion, in working out a calculation, would make a 
difference of three hundred and sixteen miles, and in 
the distance of the nearest fixed star, such error 
would amount to sixty-five miUions of miles. 

One of the greatest difficulties in making these 
dehcate observations, is to obtain a steadiness in the 
telescope. It is often said that the stand upon which 
it is placed is more costly than the instrument. The 
one in the Royal Observatory at Naples, rests upon 
two enormous broad based pillars of stone, that rise 
out of the Cape di Monte. 

So sensible are these instruments to the alteration 



i 



.A 



spider's web. 867 

of temperature, that even the approach of the humaQ 
• body obviously affects the operation, and ou that 
account they are clothed in flannel. 

The transit instrument is the perfection of the teles- 
cope. It is previously set to the altitude of the 
object to be observed. When the star is approaching 
the field of view, the trembling impatience of the 
observer for its entrance into the tube is like the 
sportsman whose dog has made a full point, and who 
waits for the rising of the game. 

Immediately upon this the most ingenious clock- 
work begins to act, which so accurately opposes the 
earth's diurnal motion, as to keep the object always 
in the glass. 

For purposes of measurement the old astronomers 
used six or eight wires, that crossed the chamber of 
the tube, which, being subject to the magnifying 
power of the telescope, were not fine enough for nice 
observations ; and, as the magnifying power was in- 
creased, finer threads were used, such as human 
hair and the spider's web. 

Since the wonderful discoveries now making, a still 
finer material is demanded for penetrating into space, 
and a superior breed of spiders is now kept in the 
institution, whose daily labours contribute much to 
sidereal astronomy, by spinning a finer web than has 
hitherto been procured. 

In the chronometor room are one hundred and 
seventy time pieces, which are sent for regulation by 



368 TIME BALL. Chap. 74. 

the various makers. These employ two ingenious 
mechanics constantly to attend upon them to regulate 
and report their mode of going. 

On entering this department you are struck with 
the effect of their irnited ticking, which is a constant 
sound like the buzz of a bee-hive. 

Those for hot chmates are put into purgatory — 
subjected to a roasting heat, and then unmercifully 
plunged into snow. If they endure this treatment, 
and still go steadily — ^not varying more than the 
tenth of a second — their fortune is made, and they 
sell for enormous prices. 

As it is from Greenwich only that true time can 
be obtained, and sent through the country, a curious 
machine is erected above the Observatory, for the 
convenience of the shipping in the Thames and the 
port of London. This is a high staff, called the 
" time ball," — so high, that it may be seen for many 
miles. At five minutes before one o'clock the ball 
is hoisted to the top of the staff, when all eyes are upon 
it, and the instant it drops it is one o'clock. Since 
this was written, a "time ball" has been placed near 
Charing Cross, with which the mariner sets his chro- 
nometer, and with this, and^the lunar tables, he sails 
to foreign parts. He never can be at a loss for his 
longitude upon the wide and trackless ocean, for he 
carries with him Greenwich time all over the world. 





as she talks she knows notn^at Tis 



T, 



nfiii-bi'i)s«' 




non_.sfus(' >\'^hile ert 



3 ' J. i/ ^ 

it last ^Tis 




all 



non_sense all nou-fcense While ere. it 




Mfmm 




■ 

I 



I 






I 



373 



CHAPTER LXXV. 

MADBI6ALS. 

In many things in which taste is concerned, there 
is at the present day a great inclination to look for a 
model to a bye-gone age. If a man builds a house, 
the first point to decide is the style of its architecture, 
and the rage is now fot the Gothic or Elizabethan — 
nothing of a more recent period would be sufficiently 
classical. He will probably embellish his house with 
aU sorts of antique curiosities of the same period. A 
similar taste has of late years led to the re-introduc- 
tion of a style of vocal music, which was brought 
into this country from Italy in the time of Henry 
VIII., called Madrigals, and which was cultivated 
with great success by our best English composers of 
that and the succeeding reign, and became exceed- 
ingly popular with all classes for- many years. 
However, like everything else, it had its day, and by 
degrees was forgotten and superseded by other styles 
of composition; but now its turn is come round 
again, and Madrigal Societies are every where 
springing up. 

It is eminently a social style of music, and is best 
sung round a table, when each performer has his part 
to himseK, and every one present is expected to join — 
for it is no matter how many voices there are, provided 
that each sings correctly and in tune ; and I may add 
that, to sing a madrigal correctly, and with proper 



374 MR. MAY. Cliap. 75. 

effect of light and shade, requires no slight musical 
knowledge and taste. 

As I have all my lifetime taken an active part in 
promoting music in Leicester, both in pubUc L in 
private, it always gives me gj*eat pleasure to see the 
same zeal kept up amongst a younger generation ; and, 
after having had, for very many years, perhaps the 
chief share in the management of the musical affairs 
of the town, I am now allowed to be a listener, and 
to enjoy the firuits of the labours of others. 

I make these few remarks by way of preface to 
the notice of the "Visitors' Night,*' given by the 
Leicester Amateur Madrigal Society last spring, when 
a company of twenty or thirty amateurs, assisted by. a 
choir of treble boys, gave an evening's entertainment 
at the New Hall, to a large company. The perform- 
ance was conducted by Mr. May, who, though a 
young amal^ur, has all the tact and precision of an 
experienced professed musician, and a knowledge of 
the subject rarely equalled. Under his direction I 
have no fear that a taste and love for music will be 
wanting in Leicester ; and I shall hope to see the so- 
ciety continue to flourish under auspices so favour- 
ably commenced. 

The meeting drew together all the first famihes 
of this town and neighbourhood. When gentlemen set 
about any public affair we may be assiured it will 
be handsomely done. The arrangemeqts of the room 
were much improved, and showed much taste. 



HENRY THE EIGHTH. 375 

By placing the voices at the entrance end, and closing 
the two doors, the room was made comfortable. 
The seating of the company was admirable, and, 
as every one was well-dressed, the appearance of the 
room was briUiant. 

At eight o'clock, about thirty gentlemen and 
twelve boys eUded in upon an elevated stage, and sat 
down to half-a-dozen tables, with their books and wax- 
lights, as in the olden time of Henry the Eighth and 
EUzabeth. I' looked for the sack and canary — ^the 
usual accompaniments at that time, but, alas ! there 
was none ; a breathless silence reigned in the whole 
company — every one was wondering what madrigals 
were, as the Germans wonder about lobsters ; no one 
could answer, except those who had read the learned 
address published by the society. Some looked in 
wild expectation for a flight of birds that were tb be 
uncaged, but the silence gave no promise of music ; 
when, presently, some low soft sounds stole upon 
the ear, swelling into gushes of harmony, and the 
Madrigal was introduced. 

The charm of the boys voices delighted me 
indeed : they were lusciously sweet. The ear had not 
been tortured by a dozen self-sufficient fiddlers 
tuning their instruments before they made a start. 
The effect was quite novel and pleasing. Presently, 
we found ourselves " Down in a flowry dale," among 
Nymphs and Corydons " Lovers all a wooing ; " after 
listening awhile to these amatory strains, we soon 



376 CHANGE IN THE KEY. Chap. 75. 

discovered that these madrigals were a wholesale way 
of making love ; a mode too dreamy for our Leicester- 
shire fox-hunters — ^a sort of pabulum vita — ^too weak 
for their stomachs. 

What a primitive age it must have been when 
such gentleness prevailed ! Henry the Eighth, who 
was a composer of madrigals, now and then cut oflF 
a few heads by way of changing the key and giving a 
spirit to the age. The character of this music 
probably has been derived from dancers in the earlier 
stages of society, when there were no instruments 
superior to the human voice, the dancers keeping 
up the tune and measure in accordance with their 
steps, in the way we may notice little children at the 
present day. The little bits of melody called " Imi- 
tation," running after one another as the couples do 
in a dance, suggest the same song — ^following in close 
succession. Such is the character of the ancient 
Madrigal. The Fugue is composed of strains of 
greater length — ^involving great skill in their construc- 
tion — a sort of arithmetical music, addressed more 
to the understanding than the heart. 



377 



CHAPTER LXXVI. 



ORATORIO OF JUDAH. 



While I was engaged upon the two first volumes 
of my Sacred Melodies, I met with many beautiful 
(impositions of a cast too elaborate for the purposes 
of Psalmody. As many of these pieces were unknown 
in this country, I determined to put them together in 
the form of an Oratorio, connecting them with the 
principal events recorded in the Jewish Scriptures, 
commencing with the history of Abraham, and termi- 
nating with aprophetic view of the miUenium. I was 
desirous that the work should be introduced by an 
original composition by Beethoven. To see if he could 
be prevailed upon to write an appropriate overture to 
the performance, I wrote the following letter to him, 
which the Baron Nieuman, of the Austrian Embassy 
did me the honour to forward to Vienna, at the same 
time teUing me it was doubtful whether I should 
receive an answer, so uncommunicative with the world 
was Beethoven: — 

" To Louis Van Beethoven. 
" Dear Sir, 

" At the house of Lady Bowater, in Leicestershire, 
in 1796, I met with your trio in E flat, (for violin, viola, and 
bass.) Its originality and beauty gave me inexpressible delight ; 
indeed, it was a new sense to me. Ever since I have anxiously 
endeavoured to procure your compositions, as much so as the war 



378 LETTER TO BEETHOVEN. Chap. 76. 

would pennit. Allow me to present to you the first volume of 
my Sacred Melodies, which contain your divine adagios appropriated 
to the British church. I um now engaged upon a work, entitled, 
"The Oratorio of Judah" giving a history of that peculiar 
people from the Jewish scriptures. The object of this letter is, 
to express a hope that I may induce you to compose an Overture 
for this work, upon which you can bring all the force of your 
sublime imagination (if it please you), in the key of D minor. 
For this service, my friend, Mr. Clementi wiU accept your draft 
upon him for one hundred guineas. 

" I have the honor to be, dear Sir, 

" Tour faithful servant, 

"WILLIAM GAEDINEE.'* 

To this letter I had no reply, though I received 
the thanks of the Empress for the volume of Sacred 
Melodies which I sent her at the suggestion of the 
Embassador. 

After I had published these works, I was often 
asked who were the authors of those pieces without 
a name ? I had thought that as my name was on the 
title page of the book, these anonymous pieces 
would of course, be assigned to me. In 1821, I 
attended the York festival, when the trio. The Lord 
will comfort Zion, was performed, and put down in 
the books as the composition of Haydn, whereas I wrote 
this trio to introduce the final chorus of the Oratorio, 
a glorious fugue by Haydn. I corrected the mistake 
in a paragraph which I sent to the London papers, 
reflecting upon the managers who could not distinguish 
my earthly composition from the divine strains of 
Haydn. Perhaps it has been a false modesty in me 



MY OWN COMPOSITIONS. 379 

not to affix my name ; but to prevent any mistake, 
and as a general answer to these enquiries, I may state 
that every recitative, symphony, song, and chorus, 
without a name is of my composition. In tlie Music of 
Nature, Music and Friends, and Sights in Italy, there 
are more than fifty songs composed by me, besides many 
of intrinsic merit that I have shortened and unproved 
by cutting out old-fashioned flourishes now obsolete. 

The public will, I trust, forgive me for speaking 
here of my own works ; but as this is probably my 
last appearance as an author or composer, I hope I 
may be allowed this explanation. 



WAED AND SON, PBINTERS, LEICESTER. 



GARDINER'S SACRED MELODIES. 



Vol. 1 — Contains the most beautiful Melodies of modem 
art in connexion with the best English Poets, fonning a more 
elevated system of Psalmody than any now in use. 

Vol. 2. — ^The same continued. 

Vol. 3. — Contains Twenty-four Anthems, by Puroell^ Dr. 
Croft, Dr. Green, Dr. Boyce, &c., adapted to the use of Female 
Voices. 

Vol. 4. — Thirty-four Pieces (modem school), from Sabatini, 
Zingarelli, Hummel, Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven. 

Vol. 5. — Twenty Pieces (modem school), principally Rossini. 

Vol. 6. — Thirty Pieces (modem school), principally Pergo- 
lesi, Boyce (Leicester Ode to Charity), Bossini, Haydn, and 
Beethoven. 



The Grand Score of the Oratoria of JUDAH, price 
jg5 5 s. Od. 

The Pianoforte Score of the Oratorio of Judah, price 
£1 68. Od. 

Fifty-jBve Single Pieces of the Oratorio of Judah, to be had 
separately. 

Parts of the Oratorio of Judah, for the full Orchestra, to be 
had of the Author. 

Also, Parts of the full Orchestra to the Sacred Melodies. 
— To be had of the Author. 

Pope's Universal Prayer, adapted to the music of 
Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven. 

ANTHEMS. 
One thing have I desired of the Lord. 
Great God, Divine. 
Holy, Holy, Lord. 

The Mechanics' Glee : — " At evening when my work is 
done." 



^ I 



•>«v 




INFANT SCHOOL SONGS. 

J J I * I 



. •• 1 ■lusr not hui 



f — 



■- - ^ 



m 



^ 



H 



lit tie 



'ly 



^ 




S 



1 




No.ii. 




J J I J.J I J ^ 



^ 



mast not stead nor dare to 



take 



f 



s: 



I 



When no ones 




i^ 



i 



^ 



I 




by 



bit 



«^ 



caki 




EC 



I 




^^^ 



^ 



S: 



^ 



O wiiHt dis grace if it 



be 



kiiowu. 



fe? 



ESi 



i 



^^ 



^-^-'4'^-y -^-^^ 







373 



CHAPTER LXXV. 

MADBIGALS. 

In many things in which taste is concerned, there 
is at the present day a great inclination to look for a 
model to a bye-gone age. If a man builds a house, 
the first point to decide is the style of its architecture, 
and the rage is now fot the Gothic or Elizabethan — 
nothing of a more recent period would be sufficiently 
classical. He will probably embellish his house with 
all sorts of antique curiosities of the same period. A 
similar taste has of late years led to the re-introduc- 
tion of a style of vocal music, which was brought 
into this country from Italy in the time of Henry 
VIII., called Madrigals, and which was cultivated 
with great success by our best English composers of 
that and the succeeding reign, and became exceed- 
ingly popular with all classes for- many years. 
However, like everything else, it had its day, and by 
degrees was forgotten and superseded by other styles 
of composition; but now its turn is come round 
again, and Madrigal Societies are every where 
springing up. 

It is eminently a social style of music, and is best 
sung round a table, when each performer has his part 
to himself, and every one present is expected to join — 
for it is no matter how many voices there are, provided 
that each sings correctly and in tune ; and I may add 
that, to sing a madrigal correctly, and with proper 



/. - .' 



I 



BOUND BY ' 

WESTLEYSA C? 

FRIAR STREET. 



I r\M r\/-in 



