Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 






MUSICAL 



REMINISCENCES 



PAST AND PRESENT. 



/ 

BY 



Dr. Wm. spark, 



Organist of the Town Hall, Leeds ; Author of " Musical Memories ^ 
" Life and Works of Henry Smart y"*^ etc. 



PRICE: SIX SHILLINGS. 



LONDON : SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, HAMILTON, KENT & CO., LTD. 
Leeds : Printed by Goodall and Suddick, Cookridge Street. 

1892. 



/ / I - cr / 



PREFACE. 






The chief of the following brochures^ including " A Musical 
Tour in North Germany ; " "A Week's Music in London 
during a Handel Festival ; ** " Blind Musicians — Homer to 
Hollings ; " " Sunday Music in Churches and Chapels ; " 
" Organs and Organists of the North," and other articles, 
have appeared in various musical serials and influential 
newspapers, but all are now out of print. The author 
therefore responds to numerous requests to collect and publish 
them in book form, believing that the contents will prove of 
sufficient interest to warrant their publication, and obtain a 
kindly approval. Much matter, however, has been specially 
written for this first edition of my Reminiscences, particularly 
that which refers to the origin of the Leeds Musical Festivals, 
and the author's treatment by the Executive Committee — 
treatment which no one has yet been found to defend or excuse, 
not even by the effeminate top music-critic of the "leading 
newspaper of the north," whose prejudices and borrowed 
information are too much known to be of any value to those 
who are in the swim, and are behind the scenes — a critic who, 
having failed in his own profession, ought to be hurled from his 
false position (where he mercilessly attacks those experienced 
men who do not, and cannot, agree with him), like his father's 



r 



IV. PREFACE. 

flute, which was once lent by his friend Saynor, the principal 
flautist at Drury Lane Theatre, for a benefit concert at his 
native place, Hunslet, near Leeds ; and at which I was 
unfortunately the conductor. 

The writings on Sunday Musical Services, though dealing 
chiefly with local places of worship, contain observations of a 
general character, and these may probably be of some use to 
the Clergy, Ministers, Organists, and Choir-masters of every 
denomination. 

It is hoped that this work will equal in success and 
circulation the Author's " Life of Smart," and ** Musical 
Memories," volumes which were so kindly and generously 
reviewed by the press, and warmly encouraged by the public 
some time ago. 

Newton Park, 

Leeds, 1892. 



CONTENTS. 



I. A Musical Tour in North Germany 



III. Turning the Handle for a Week ... 



IV.^. Sunday Musical Services in Leeds 



V. Music, etc., in North Wales ... 



VT. Blind Musicians— Homer to Smart 



VII. Music and Sunshine 



• • « • • < 



• • ■ ■ • 



X. Choirs and Organs : Their Proper Position in 

N^HUlCOnKS ..f ... ... ... ••• ■ .. ••• 



XII. A Week in the Isle of Man 



XIV. Scraps, Anecdota, etc. 



Pages. 
1—40 



H. A Week's Music in London during the Handel 

Festival, 1877 41— 60 



61— 63 



64—116 



I • • • • • 



117— I2i 



'\ 



121 — 140 



141— 149 



VIII. Organs and Organists of the North 150—235 

IX. Leeds Musical Festivals (their real origin, etc.) ... 236—250 



251-266 



XI. Selected Annotated Programmes of Organ Recitals 267—286 



287—300 



XTII. Mr. John William Atkinson, the late Hon. Sec. of 

THE Leeds Musical Festivals, etc 301 — 302 



303-310 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



I 



Page. 

I. Choir Screen, York Minster 151 

II. Organ in Nave, York Minster 154 

III. RiPON Minster Organ 157 

IV. The Organ Screen, Leeds Parish Church 161 

V. Halifax Parish Church Organ 173 

VI. Doncaster Parish Church Organ 181 

VII. Sheffield Parish Church Organ 191 

VIII. Ihe Albert Hall Organ, Sheffield 195 

IX. St. Mark's Church Organ 201 

X. EccLEs Parish Church Organ 203 

XI. Bridlington Priory Church Organ 207 

XII. Wakefield Cathedral Organ 213 

XIII. Leeds Town Hall Organ 219 

XIV. Bolton Abbey Church Organ 233 



I 






( < 



REMINISCENCES." 



A MUSICAL TOUR IN NORTH GERMANY. 
A Series of Letters reprinted from " The Choir, ^* 



Music and Organs in Hamburg. 

When I determined at the end of June (1870) to make a tour 
through North Germany, no gloomy forebodings of the turmoil 
which was destined so soon to harass that country invaded my 
mind ; fortunately, though war was declared only a few hours 
before I bade adieu to my friends on the other side of the 
water, nothing more serious than the mustering of troops and 
the commencement of other preparations for the coming fight 
occurred to interrupt my pleasant and peaceful occupation. 

The start from Grimsby was not very propitious ; the steamer 
** Wakefield,'' belonging to the Grimsby Navigation Company, 
— the courteousness of whose manager, Mr. Sutcliffe, many of 
your readers may have experienced, — being detained some six 
hours by the state of the weather. After this unavoidable delay, 
we sailed early on Sunday morning. On Monday we sighted 
Heligoland, and quickly reaching the mouth of the Elbe with its 
picturesque banks, now doubly interesting from the important 
part it plays in the war, we landed about three o'clock in the 
afternoon. I took up my quarters at the Hotel de I'Europe, 
beautifully situated, overlooking the Alstcr Bason. 

Hamburg literally swarms with theatres and concert rooms. 
To some of these I repaired in the evening; but there is no 
music to be heard in these places without eating and drinking ; 

A 



2 A MUSICAL TOUR 

yet all these gastronomic proceedings were carried on with such 
quiet and order that one's enjoyment of the music was scarcely 
ever marred. One of the largest of the second-class theatres 
(the principal ones being closed at this period of the year) is 
the ** Theater der central Halle." Here (the admission to the 
stalls being only 4d.) after a drama, which appeared to interest 
the large audience amazingly, came a concert of rather a 
peculiar description. Eight ladies appeared on the stage, with 
their stringed instruments in their hands, and, accompanied by 
the band, played, on violins and violoncellos, Mendelssohn's 
" Wedding March," an overture, and other pieces, with a remark- 
able taste, precision, and effect, which elicited long and loud 
applause, the " Wedding March " being redemanded. The 
orchestra then played several pieces, and I may here observe 
how I was struck not only upon this occasion, but also at other 
times, by the excellent way in which the wood and brass 
instruments were played ; the tone invariably being softer and 
more refined than that of similar instruments in most of our 
own theatrical bands. 

By the kindness of an old and valued friend, and accomplished 
amateur, Herr Martin Herz, I was speedily introduced to most 
of the organists and composers of note in the town. The 
first organ I heard was at the church of S. Michael, celebrated 
for its great size and the height of its steeple. Herr Osterhault 
is the organist. This fine instrument of about eighty stops was 
built by Hildebrand, the principal workman of the famous 
Silbermann, the latter having died before he was able to carry 
out the plans he had designed for its erection. The interior 
arrangements are worthy of as much admiration as its noble 
exterior. The richly carved case, 60 feet in length by 60 feet 
in breadth, extends from one side of the church to the other, 
and has the towers usual to such cases, filled with brightly 
polished pure block-tin pipes, resplendent with gilded capitals. 
On the summits of these towers are gigantic figures of angels 
with golden trumpets ; and in the centre, at the top of all, is 
an oil portrait of Matthison, a celebrated composer and theorist, 
who bequeathed ;^4,ooo to the organ fund. This instrument, 
with modifications, may be taken as a rough type of most of 
the large organs throughout North Germany. The variety, 
character, and pungency of tone in the flue work, is as admirable 
as their reeds and swell organs are poor and defective. The 
pedal organ, containing seventeen stops, possesses a power and 
individuality of tone rarely equalled ; indeed I heard no finer in 
the whole of North Germany ; but whilst it has a 32-feet metal 



IN NORTH GERMANY. 3 

of the finest quality, it has no 32-feet wood pipes, considered by 
so many in this country to be indispensable in a large instru- 
ment. The organist spared neither time nor trouble in exhibiting 
the qualities of an instrument of which he was justly proud. In 
a dignified performance of a fine fugue, the full power of its 
grand tones permeated the whole church, but the touch and 
mechanical arrangements I found from my own playing to be 
cumbersome and ancient. It is unnecessary to describe the 
organs in the other churches in Hamburg, as they are similar in 
character to that at S. Michael's ; they all, however, possess 
a stop called " Glockenspiel," which is a set of bells from tenor F 
upwards, the largest being about 6in. in diameter, the smallest 
about I in. These are struck with wood hammers, similar to 
those in a pianoforte, and, when used in conjunction with light 
1 6ft. and 2ft. registers, produce for certain things very pleasing 
effects. 

In the evening I attended one of the numerous concerts given 
in the charming gardens which are to be found in the environs 
of Hamburg. We had a performance by three military bands, 
numbering 120 players; they played separately and unitedly, 
the balance of tone being in both instances remarkably even 
and good. Amongst other pieces Wagner's well-known March 
in Tannhaiiser was played by the united bands, where, at the 
passage of quavers in the bass towards the end of the 
composition, the combined brass instruments produced a 
stupendous effect. Individually, too, these bands executed both 
classical and popular music with a care, earnestness, and spirit 
which showed how much personal artistic interest the different 
performers took in the delightful work they had in hand. 

On the next day I had the pleasure of spending a few 
delightful musical hours at the house of my friend, where I had 
the opportunity of seeing and hearing what German amateurs 
can accomplish, and what an interest they take in the practice 
and cultivation of music in its highest and most enjoyable form. 
The family assembled in a large room, denuded of its carpet, 
that the musical sounds might be heard to greater advantage. 
Our host being an accomplished violinist, and each member of 
his family playing some stringed instrument, there was here 
material for the performance of much excellent chamber music. 
First we had a classical overture, arranged as a duet for the 
pianoforte and a string quartet ; then a violin solo, one of those 
charming romances by the old Italian masters, lately reprinted 
in Leipzig ; then a Trio of Beethoven's, for pianoforte, violin, 
and violoncello ; then some vocal music, and for a finale, another 



4 A MUSICAL TOUR 

overture arranged as the first. Rarely have I heard, even 
amongst professional musicians, better music better rendered, 
or more thoroughly enjoyed. I parted with my friend at the 
foot of his garden, close to whose gates I embarked on a 
steamer that took me down the Alster Bason to my hotel, 
reflecting during my short ride on the water upon the happy 
evening I had spent, and wondering when the charms of music 
will be so universally appreciated by English as they are by 
German families. 

On the following day I was a guest at the annual dinner 
of the ship-owners of Hamburg, Hull, and Grimsby. On these 
occasions, after the third course, the toasts and speeches are 
given out between the succeeding courses ; the favourite toasts 
are responded to musically in a manner, I must own, very 
superior to our " Hip, hip, hurrah," and '* For he's a jolly good 
fellow." All the guests sang in perfect time and tune, most of 
them being, as I ascertained, members of various choral and 
other associations for the practice of vocal part music. 

The same night I left by mail for Berlin, where I arrived 
about five o'clock on Saturday morning. Here my first visit 
was to the veteran Wieprecht, the director-general of all the 
Prussian military bands. In his studio, a perfect model of 
neatness and order, was a tall cabinet reaching from the floor 
to the ceiling, and containing the scores of various compositions, 
all arranged by himself, which are played by each regiment in 
the Prussian army. 

By his invitation I attended a performance by three of the 
best infantry bands in Berlin, each numbering about fifty or 
sixty performers. As at the military concert in Hamburg, they 
played with thrilling effect a programme of about twenty pieces 
separately and unitedly. In the music for the combined bands 
there was not that replication of parts so common in similar 
performances in England, but it was specially arranged so that 
each band in turn took its part accompanied by the others. 
The whole performance concluded with a military piece entitled 
the ** Battle of Leipzig," in which cannons were fired at intervals 
with unerring precision at the beginning of the bar. This 
pleased me less than any other piece, but it seemed to raise the 
rest of the audience to the highest pitch of enthusiasm. 

On the following morning, Sunday, I paid an eagerly 
anticipated visit to Professor Haupt, who has the reputation 
of being the greatest organist in Germany. On entering the 
parish church, where he presides at the organ, I found that 
the service had just commenced, and the congregation were 



I 



IN NORTH GERMANY 5 

singing, to the accompaniment of a fine organ, the favourite 




chorale, " Nun danket alle Gott" Our fast organists in England, 
who drive their hymns at a railroad express pace, would have 
been astonished at the slow and dignified time in which this 
grand old tune was sung. Most of your readers will doubtless 
be aware that it is the practice of the Lutheran church 
throughout Prussia to sing congregational music in unison. 
But everything is done to carry out this arrangement in the 
most efficient way — first, a really grand organ, containing from 
fifty to eighty sounding stops, with a full and penetrating tone, 
is placed in a huge gallery at the west end of the church, with 
plenty of space around to give the pipes room to speak ; 
secondly, the people are furnished with books, in which are 
printed the melodies as well as the words of the chorales, and 
which, moreover, have this additional and immense advantage 
that one tune is almost invariably confined to one set of words ; 
thirdly, black boards are hung up with the numbers of the 
chorales distinctly printed in white chalk on them, so tliat those 
coming in late may at once know what hymn is being sung ; 
fourthly, the knowledge of music, which all Germans are taught 
in one form or another at school, enables them to sing perfectly 
in time and tune. It is still the custom to play a few passing 
chords, similar to those in Hesse's arrangements of the chorales, 
between each line of the verse. The hymn is not played over, 
but is introduced by a short extemporaneous prelude, and the 
last verse is accompanied by the full power of the organ — a 
power which, in most cases, would be much more satisfactory, 
were the coarse reeds dispensed with. I am bound to add that 
these chorales, grand and majestic as they are, supply alone the 
musical part of the service : the versicles, preces, and responses 
of our own lovely service are not there ; it would, indeed, have 
been a joy to have heard this relieved by the sweet and solemn 
tones of Tallis's responses, or by a service or anthem of one of 
our best church writers. Professor Haupt was most polite, and 
after the sermon he made an appointment with me for the 
following Tuesday morning, when I could hear the organ without 
interrupting atiy service. In the afternoon, at the professor's 
suggestion, I visited the church of S. Marien, a fine building, 
possessing one of the largest organs in Berlin, ably presided 
over by Herr Otto Dienel. The service and organ were both 



b A MUSICAL TOUR 

similar to those I had heard in the morning ; the organ, however, 
was enclosed in a much handsomer and elaborately carved case. 
In the evening I went to the recently erected church of 
S. Thomas, which has an immense dome in the centre, and is 
most richly and profusely decorated throughout. Here I found 
a large new instrument of four nianuals, built by W. Sauer, of 
Frankfort-on-the-Oder. The organist is Herr Succo, an admir- 
able writer of organ music, whose courtesy and kindness demand 
my warmest acknowledgments. The service began with a 
grand old chorale in G minor, and was of the same character 
as those I have mentioned above, x^fter the service, the organist 
performed a "Toccata " of his own, and in other pieces displayed 
the various qualities of the instrument, which was not so fine 
in the flue work as the older organs, but much superior in reed 
work and mechanical appliances, the pneumatic lever being 
amongst the most valuable. 

Almost the same remarks will apply to the large organ of 
four manuals, with a pedal organ of 15 stops, built in 1853 by 
Bushholtz and Sons, for the immense church of S. Peter, where 
Herr Heintz is the organist. 

On Monday evening I visited the celebrated " Krolls " 
Gardens, in which there is an excellent theatre (chiefly used 
for the performance of operas), a military band, besides a large 
orchestra of fifty performers. Here I found the dite of Beilin. 
After a few morceaux by the military band, a bell rung, and 
all flocked to the theatre, where Mozart's Opera " Figaro " was 
performed most admirably, the orchestra especially distinguishing 
itself by the accuracy and delicacy of its accompaniments. 
After the opera, which commenced at six, and terminated at 
eight o'clock, theie was a concert in the gardens. The 
programme included Weber's Overtures, " The Jubilee," and 
" Der Freischiitz ; " the so-called " Meditation " by Bach and 
Gounod, operatic selections, and some pretty waltzes by Strauss. 
The orchestra included two harps. Amongst the most attentive 
of the listeners were a number of Prussian officers, splendid 
fellows, many of whom have, I fear, since paid the penalty 
which a ruthless war can inflict. 



IN NORTH GERMANY 



Letter II. 
Music and Musicians in Berlin. 

After attending the opera and the concert in the " KrolFs " 
Gardens, I paid brief visits to some of the minor theatres and 
higher class concert halls, which were all filled with large 
audiences, listening intently and with much evident enjoyment 
to the varied music performed by the excellent bands I always 
found in such places. 

Professor Haupt was true to his appointment at lo o'clock on 
Tuesday morning, July Sth, at the parish church, of which, with 
the exception of a single mutual friend, and the inevitable 
bellows-blowers, we were the sole occupants. To my great 
surprise, this noted organist politely but firmly insisted upon 
my trying the qualities of the instrument before he himself 
displayed them. This unusual proceeding was afterwards 
explained to me as being his usual plan for testing a man, for 
finding that his time had been too often wasted upon men 
whose acquaintance with music and organs was very limited, 
and who generally mistook enthusiasm for knowledge, the 
Professor was compelled to adopt some scheme, whereby he 
might be enabled to judge of his visitors* musical capabilities. 
After complying with his request and playing for a short time, 
the rightful owner of the organist's seat took his place, and for 
one hour greatly delighted me with his performance on the 
instrument. The selection comprised Bach's grand Prelude and 
Fugue in B minor ; Louis Thiele's air and elaborate variations 
in A flat ; some variations of his own on a chorale ; and a short 
improvisation. The salient features of his playing were more 
especially exhibited in the Fugue of Bach's, played as it was 
with remarkable dignity and grandeur of style — at a speed too, 
considerably slower than that usually adopted by the majority 
of modern English organists. Never, indeed, much of Sebastian 
Bach's organ music as I have heard played by the most noted 
English organists, did I enjoy the music of the grand old Leipzig 
cantor so thoroughly ; never did I hear this stupendous creation 
of his fertile brain developed with a more masterly appreciation 
of its varied beauties, subtle harmonies, and erudite counterpoint. 
It was a treat to me of the highest order, and it will never leave 



8 



A MUSICAL TOUR 



my memory. The composition of Louis Thiele, a young Berlin 
organist and composer, who died in 1848, at the early age of 32, 
and whose compositions for the instrument are regarded, and it 
appears to me justly regarded, as the finest and withal the 
most difficult organ music produced since the days of John 
Sebastian himself, afforded Professor Haupt a good opportunity 
of displaying his undoubted ability as a facile pedalist, the 
variations being replete with difficulties. To those who are 
desirous of getting some rather startling and novel original 
organ compositions, I would recommend the five or six works 
by this composer, which are published by Schlessinger, the 
well-known music and book-seller of Berlin, and edited by 
Professor Haupt. 

The organ being deficient in nearly all modern mechanical 
appliances, in consequence of which variety of tone could 
only be obtained by changing the stops separately with 
the hands, the pauses between some of the variations were 
necessarily long, and certainly not at all to the advantage of 
the effect of the composition, or the exposition of its continuity 
of thought and purpose.. As a description of the fine organ at 
which the most celebrated of North German organists presides 
may be interesting, I here insert its disposition : — 



HAUPTWERK. 


OBERWERK. 




I. Principal 


8 ft. 


I. Principal 


8 ft. 


2. Boardon 


16 ft. 


2. Quintalion 


16 ft. 


3. Gamba 


8 ft. 


3. Salcional 


8 ft. 


4. Rohrflote 


8 ft. 


4. Gedact 


8 ft. 


5. Octave 


4 ft. 


5. Octave 


4 ft. 


6. Spitz-flote 


4 ft. 


6. Fugura 


4 ft. 


7. Quint 


2§ft. 


7. Rohrflote 


4 ft. 


8. Octave 


2 ft. 


8. Nasard 


2§ft. 


9. Cornet 


5 ranks. 


9. Octave 


2 ft. 


10. ScharfF 


5 ranks. 


10. Flageolet 


I ft 


11. Cymbal 


3 ranks. 


II. Progressio harmonica 


12. Trumpet 


8 ft. 


2 and 5 ranks 






12 Oboe 


8 ft. 


UNTERWERK. 






I . Geigen-Principal 8 ft. 


PEDAL. 




2. Bourdon 


16 ft. 


I. Principal 


16 ft. 


3. Gerashorn 


8 ft. 


2. Viola 


16 ft. 


4. Piffaro 


8 ft. 


3. Quint 


10§ft. 


5. Gedact 


8 ft. 


4. Violoncello 


8 ft. 


6. Viola 


4 ft. 


5. Gemshorn 


8 ft. 


7. Flauto traverse 


4 ft. 


6. Octave 


4 ft. 


8. Vox angelica 


16 ft. 


7. Posaune 


16 ft. 


9. Dulciana 


8 ft. 


8. Trumpet 


8 ft. 



3 Couplers for the Manuals. 

I Coupler for the Pedal to the Haupt. 2nd Oberwerk. 

The Organ was built by Joachim Wagner in 1735; 
Repaired, &c., by C. A. Bucholtz, 185 1. 



IN NORTH GERMANY. 9 

The Professor having expressed a desire to hear some English 
organ music, of which he confessed he knew nothing whatever, 
I gratified his wish, and he seemed to be most particularly 
pleased with a Postlude in C major of Mr. Henry Smart's, which 
appeared in the first number of the Organists' Quarterly JoumaL 
When I explained the size, power, and character of the great 
organ in the Town Hall, at Leeds, the facilities afforded to 
the performer by its superior mechanism, and especially, by 
the hydraulic engines which work the bellows, thus dispensing 
with the three or four men on whom a German organist is still 
dependent, the warmest admiration was elicited from Professor 
Haupt, and a signification of his intention, notwithstanding his 
advanced age (he is sixty, but looks much younger), to make 
great efforts to come over to England and hear an organ of such 
magnitude and fine construction. Subsequently in the course 
of a long and interesting conversation with this distinguished 
organist, he told me he had been informed that the leading 
public organists in England were in the habit of playing overtures 
on an instrument which he deemed unfitted for the production 
of such a class of music. " Was it really so ? '* " Certainly,'' I 
replied, " for our modern organs in the large concert halls are 
constructed with a view to the performance of orchestral and 
chamber music ; but in our churches the leading organists are 
especially particular in choosing the styles of composition 
suitable to the sacred place and the solemn service in which 
they are engaged." " I am glad," said the Professor, " to hear 
your explanation, as I had laboured under the impression, from 
what I had been told, that you played overtures in your churches 
during or at the conclusion of divine service ; but let me ask 
you," he added, " how and by whom are these public organ 
stances that you speak of organized and carried on ? " "By 
the Municipal authorities in our large towns of Liverpool, Leeds, 
and Newcastle, where the audiences have to pay a small sum 
for admission to the performances, which generally take place 
twice every week." 

This piece of news surprised my friend greatly, who eagerly 
remarked upon the peculiar difficulty which an organist must 
have in gratifying people of such diverse tastes, who, moreover, 
had to pay for what they heard, a fact which he seemed to 
think would tend to make them hypercritical. Upon asking 
how, if he had a similar object to accomplish, he would contrive 
to interest miscellaneous audiences when the organ repertoires 
of Bach, Handel, Mendelssohn, and other masters, were 
exhausted, he told me how he had been persuaded by the pastor 



lO A MUSICAL TOUR 

of his Church, a proficient amateur, to give some performances 
of classical music ; the first was attended by great numbers 
of people, many of whom loaded him with congratulations 
and praises for the success of his efforts ; but at the second 
performance, when a small charge was made for admission by 
direction of the pastor, who considered that the organist ought 
to receive some remuneration for the valuable time which he had 
been so willing to give up to the detriment of other pressing 
arrangements, there were not more than two dozen persons 
present! This effectually put an end to all performances of 
a similar description, even at nominal prices, in Berlin, and 
affords another instance, if any be required, of the impossibility 
of attracting large numbers of people, even in musical Germany, 
by original organ music, unvaried by any other of a more 
popular character, though the price for admission is a mere 
trifle. After he had expressed his intention of sending an early 
contribution to the Organists' Quarterly Journal, I parted with 
this remarkable musician, as much impressed by his simple 
but earnest manner and conversation as I had been by his 
undoubted powers as an organist d premiere force. 

On the afternoon of the same day I accompanied a friend to 
hear the usual weekly rehearsal of the members of the celebrated 
Berlin Singing Academy. It was a most interesting gathering 
of nearly eighty singers ; there seemed to be about twenty-four 
sopranos, twenty altos (all females), sixteen tenors, and sixteen 
basses. They were conducted by Professor Griel, Herr Blumner 
presiding at the piano. The programme included : — 

1. Choral (from a Motet) ... ... /. S, Bark. 

2. ** Sancta Maria" .. Hellwig, 

3. Motet, ending with Choral ** Der 

Hirte Israel*' ... ... /. 5". Bach. 

4. Mass, ' * Lobgesang am Schopfung's 

Morgen " ... ... ... Reichard. 

The tone of the bass voices was remarkably good and 
sonorous, -the lower notes, even as low as double D, being supg 
with perfect clearness of intonation ; but the other sections did 
not appear to me to equal corresponding voices of well trained 
choirs in our own country. The discipline and order, however, 
of the whole affair cannot be too highly commended to the notice 
of similar societies at home. Members, as they entered the 
orchestra, first politely saluted the conductor, then the pianist, 
and quietly took their allotted seats, where their copies were 
found arranged in the order of practice. No talking or annoying 
noises were allowed in any part of the room during the perform- 
ance of a piece, and the few of the audience who happened to 



IN NORTH GERMANY. II 

arrive late exhibited that respect, which all Germans seem to 
entertain, for the art, and showed their indisposition to mar the 
enjoyment of others by gently and cautiously moving on tip-toe 
as short a distance as possible. All the choir stood whilst 
singing, but whenever any part had several bars rest, those, 
whose voices were not needed sat down, and at a glance of the 
conductor s eye, who was always ready to give the signal, rose 
en masse with military precision just before the commencement 
of their part. This perhaps arises in some measure from their 
military education, for the humblest classes never pass each 
other in the streets without mutual salutes. Nor was the choir 
deficient in solo singers, some of whom (I was informed) sung at 
sight the solos in Bach's Motet, and in the Mass, with remarkable 
correctness and considerable style and expression. It must be 
remembered, however, that each of these singers could play 
either the pianoforte or some other instrument, which they had 
studied from early youth, for it is an indispensable part of the 
education of both sexes in Germany, so they all become 
musicians and critics of more or less efficiency and excellence. 

Before quitting the Prussian metropolis, I must just mention 
en passant that amongst the curiosities of the world-renowned 
" Royal Museum," with its magnificent frescoes representing the 
labours of Hercules and the exploits of Theseus, are preserved 
with the most religious care, two flutes — one silver, the other 
wood — with which Frederick the Great was wont to divert 
himself when he required relaxation from the more serious 
cares of State. While looking at these relics I could not help 
recalling to my memory the anecdote told by Forkel of 
Sebastian Bach's visit to the great Prussian monarch in the 
company of his son William Friedmann. "At this time," 
says the biographer, " the King had every evening a private 
concert, in which he himself generally performed some concertos 
for the flute. One evening, just as he was getting his flute 
ready, and his musicians were assembled, an officer brought 
him the list of the strangers who had arrived. With his 
flute in his hand he ran over the list, but immediately 
turned to the assembled musicians, and said, with a kind of 
agitation, * Gentlemen, old Bach is come.' The flute was 
now laid aside, and old Bach, who had alighted at his son's 
lodgings, was immediately summoned to the palace. William 
Friedmann, who accompanied his father, told me this story, 
and I must say that I still think with pleasure on the manner 
in which he related it. At that time it was the fashion to 
make rather prolix compliments. The first appearance of 



12 



A MUSICAL TOUR 



J. S. Bach before so great a King, who did not even give 
him time to change his travelling dress for a black chanter^s 
gown, must necessarily be attended with many apologies. I will 
not here dwell on these apologies, but merely observe that in 
William Friedmann's mouth they made a formidable dialogue 
between the King and the Apologist But what is more 
importajit than this is that the King gave up his concert for 
this evening, and invited Bach, then already called * the old 
Bach/ to try his fortepianos, made by Silbermann, which stood 
in several rooms of the palace. The musicians went with him 
from room to room, and Bach was invited everywhere to try 
and to play unpremeditated compositions. After he had gone 
on for some time, he asked the King to give him a subject for 
a fugue, in order to execute it immediately without any pre- 
paration. The King admired the learned manner in which his 
subject was thus executed extempore ; and, probably to see 
how far such an art can be carried, expressed a wish to hear a 
fugue with six obbligato parts. But as it is not every subject 
that is fit for such full harmony, Bach chose one himself, and 
immediately executed it, to the astonishment of all present, in 
the same magnificent and learned manner as he had done that 
of the King. His Majesty desired also to hear his performance 
on the organ. The next day, therefore. Bach was taken to 
all the organs in Potsdam, as he had before been to Silbermann's 
fortepianos. After his return to Leipzig, he composed the 
subject which he had received from the King in three and six 
parts, added several artificial passages in strict canon to it, 
and had it engraved, under the title of ' Musikalisches Opfer * 
(Musical Offering), and dedicated it to the inventor." 

Here, too, in a private room of the Museum containing 
rare works of art, I saw in one of Albert Durer's marvellous 
productions, dated 1514, the figure of a man holding out a 
board on which were painted the following ingenious table of 
figures, each line making 34, add them which way you will : — 



16 


3 


2 


13 


5 


10 


II 


8 


9 


6 


7 


12 


4 


15 


14 


I 



One of the largest of modern built organs in North Germany 
is that in the church of S. Thomas, Berlin, built by W. Sauer, 



IN NORTH GERMANY. 



13 



of Frankfort-on-the-Oder. The following disposition of this fine 
instrument will be regarded with interest by many : — 



I. HAUPTWERK. 



1. Principal 

2. Bordun 

3. Principal 

4. Gambe 



16 

16 

8 

8 



^. Fliite harmonique 8 

6. Rohrflote 8 

7. Octave 4 

8. Gemshorn 4 

9. Rauschquinte 2§ 

10. Terz I 

11. Fagott 16 

12. Trompete 8 

13. Trompete 4 

14. Mixtur 2 — 

15. Comett 3 fiach 8 

2. OBERWERK. 



ft. 
ft. 
ft. 
ft. 
ft. 
ft. 
ft. 
ft. 

&2ft. 

ft. 
ft. 
ft. 
ft. 

5 fach. 
ft. 



16. Bordun 

17. Principal 

18. Salicional 

19. Gedact 

20. Octave 

21. Fliite octaviante 

22. Octave 

23. Nassard 

24. Trompete 

25. Clarinette 

26. Mixtur 



16 ft. 
8 ft, 
8 ft. 
8 ft. 
4 ft. 
4 ft 
aft. 
28 ft. 
8 ft. 
8 ft. (durch- 
schlagend). 
3 fach. 



3. FERNWERK. 

27. Quintaton 16 ft. 

28. Principal 8 ft. 

29. Gedact 8 ft. 

30. Viola d'amour 8 ft. 

3 1 . Flute harmonique 8 ft. 

32. Voix celeste 8 ft. 

33. Flauto traverso 4 ft 

34. Fugara 4 ft. 

35. Basson 16 ft. 

36. Oboe 8 ft. 



39. 
40. 



4. RUCKPOSITIV. 

Principal 8 ft. 

Gedact 8 ft. 

Octave 4 ft. 

Gedactflote 4 ft. 



5. PEDAL. 

41. Violon 

42. Principal 

43. Violon 

44. Subbass 

45. Principal 

46. Violoncello 

47. Bassflote 

48. Octave 

49. Nassard 

50. Posaune 

51. Trompete 

52. Clairon 



32 ft. 
16 ft. 
16 ft. 
16 ft. 

8 ft. 

8 ft. 

8 ft. 

4 ft. 
103 ft. 
16 ft. 

8 ft. 

4 ft. 



Dazu : 5, Koppeln, 4, CoUectiv-Ziige und 2 Crescendo-Tritte. 

It was inaugurated on the 13th of January, 1870, by the present 
organist (Herr Succo), with the following programme : — 



1. Fantasia 

2. Choral -Vorspiel 

3. ./^ria ••• •• ••• 

4. Adagio 

5. Pastorale 

o« x\ria ..• ..• ••• 
7, Free Fantasia ... 



••« ••• ••• • 

•«• ••• ••• • 

•■• ••• ••« 

■■ ••• ■•• • 

••• ■•• ••■ • 

••• ••• •■• • 



y. S. Bach, 
/. .S". Bach. 
Haydn ^ 
Mendelssohn, 
/. S. Bach. 
Handel, 



14 A MUSICAL TOUR 



Letter III. 



Leipzig — Conservatoire, Bach, St. Thomas', etc. 

On leaving Berlin, where I had stayed at the " Hotel d'Angle- 
terre," for the last four or five days, one of the largest and best 
hotels on the Continent, at which one can live (so much better 
are such things managed abroad than in England) in the best 
possible way, good wine included, at the rate of ten shillings per 
diem, I proceeded by the evening mail at 8.30, and arrived at 
Leipzig at midnight. "Almost every living being in Leipzig," said 
a friend to me in Berlin, " is musical ; they live on music, they 
can't exist without it ; art is their daily bread, is necessary to 
their very existence, and, moreover, the art with the Leipzigers 
is by no means a money-making business, but it is practised and 
studied, and dreamed of, for its own sake." Well, I thought, as 
I was driven along in a drosky from the station, which is nearly 
two miles from the city so fraught with historic importance and 
so full of art and artistes, will all my friend's assertions be 
realized ? Most interestihg was the drive through the streets of 
this picturesque old city, lighted up but deserted, in the dead 
of night to the " Hotel de Bavierre, " where the host and his 
attendants were awaiting our arrival, and being known to my 
travelling companion, received us with much courtesy ; I was 
soon made to feel as much at home as I well could at an hotel 
in a foreign country. In the morning when I looked out of the 
window of my comfortable room to take a survey of the neigh- 
bourhood, it seemed as if I could stretch my hands across to the 
houses opposite, so narrow are some of the streets, especially in 
the old parts of the city. My first duty was to call on my friend, 
Capelmeister Carl Reinecke, while it was still early, for L had 
been warned by my host that unless I went before nine o'clock 
I should run the risk of not finding him at home. I found him 
at half-past eight busy giving a pianoforte lesson, and, after the 
usual greetings, we made an appointment for eleven o'clock. In 
the meantime I walked about the city to take a cursory glance 



IN NORTH GERMANY. I 



D 



at the principal streets and public buildings. What attracted 
my attention most was the great square in which the celebrated 
fair is annually held, the visitors on this occasion being generally 
upwards of sixty thousand. In the most important streets I 
noticed with great astonishment that almost every third building 
was occupied by a bookseller or music-publisher. But I am 
anxious to get back to my hotel to receive the Capelmeister, 
and long to be directed to some of the musical associations of 
Leipzig, and especially to those connected with its former illus- 
trious residents, John Sebastian Bach and Felix Mendelssohn 
Bartholdy. Like all other German musicians who had made 
appointments with me, Herr Reinecke kept his time exactly. 
After a little interesting conversation respecting his recent and 
successful visit to England, we proceeded to the famous " Con- 
servatorium de musique," the nursery of many musical geniuses, 
not only German and English (amongst the latter of whom one 
of the most eminent is Professor Sterndale Bennett), but of 
nearly every civilised country. The building stands in a large 
court yard, which is reached through an archway ; it certainly 
has no pretensions to architectural beauty, and when I made an 
observation about this, as it appeared to me, defect to one of the 
Professors, he gave me as his opinion, that he considered the 
want of external beauty of no consequence, but what was of the 
greatest importance, the adaptation of its interior to the purposes 
required, and its " fitness for work, work, .work, mein Herri' that 
was its greatest recommendation. The class rooms are all 
furnished in the simplest possible manner with desks, music- 
stands, tables, a few plain chairs, and the inevitable Breitkopf 
and Hartel grand pianos ; no carpets, floors and walls alike being 
bare. The principal apartment is the concert hall, with its 
peculiar gallery, from which the occupants seem, as it were, to 
pop their heads from out of the wall ; it will accommodate three 
hundred persons. The small orchestra possessed two grand 
pianofortes, and here the students during term exhibit their 
talents both in composition and performance to their friends and 
the public. During my expedition Herr Reinecke introduced 
me to Dr. Papperitz, the organist of the great organ m the 
Church of S. Nicholas, who was good enough to make an ap- 
pointment with me for the following day, to hear and play that 
immense instrument. Among the students were two fine-looking 
negroes (from America I believe), and also the Rev. F. Scotson 
Clark, Mus. Bac. Oxon., who, with others from England, was 
going through the courses of harmony and other instruction 
imparted by the different masters of the Academy. 



i6 



A MUSICAL TOUR 



Close to the Conservatorium is the " S. Thomas Schule," part 
of which was once the house of Sebastian Bach, and in the 
gardens beneath it stands his statue. Deeply interested, I walked 
under the windows of the large, tall, quaint old building, and 
eventually found myself gazing at the statue of the most 
profound musician, the deepest thinker, the hardest worker of 
all the world's musical heroes. " Listen," I said to my friend, 
"listen, the choir are singing one of the dear old Cantor-s 
motets," as T recognized at once that splendid eight-part 
unaccompanied work in G Minor : 



i 



it 



^=i 



:fe 



kj 



t 



Klonun, 



Komm, 



Komtn, 



^^ 



a: 



&=z2 




Komm Je 



^m 



With the greatest firmness, accuracy, and in strict time by a 
choir of boys and men, was the piece sung, but interrupted 
occasionally, for I could hear everything distinctly, by the 
remarks of Dr. Richter, who caused the difficult passages to 
be sung again and again, until they were delivered perfectly. 
"Shade of John Sebastian," thought I, "how particular your 
countrymen are, how hard they work ; nd wonder your nation 
can appreciate and enjoy the highest and most subtle forms 
of musical composition." And now let me visit the well- 
known Church of S. Thomas, close at hand, where Bach 
played the organ and produced most of those deathless 
compositions, notably the "Matthias Passionsmusik," which 
have made his name immortal, and placed him on the 
highest pinnacle of excellence. Unfortunately time did 
not permit me to seek an entrance into the Church, but the 
building itself is a huge mass of brick, stone, and plaster, with 



IN NORTH GERMANY. 1 7 

a,n enormously high-pitched roof, studded with garret-looking 
windows, altogether not possessing that impressive exterior 
which somehow or other I had expected to see. Just after 
leaving the Church, a troop of Prussian infantry overtook us, 
and though it was mid-day, with a broiling July sun, they 
were marching at remarkably quick pace. I was informed that 
this inuring their soldiers to every kind of fatigue is part of 
their military system — a system which our own authorities and 
those who made such numerous complaints about a certain 
march in our own country a few weeks ago would do well to 
look to. Proceeding with them for a short distance, when they 
halted at the old castle, we saw that three of their number 
instantaneously dropped down in a state of insensibility, but 
were immediately carried off to the castle by their fellows. The 
fine band of about sixty which headed them then struck up 
some lively and inspiriting music. After visiting the ramparts 
and the old walls, and driving through some of the most 
interesting suburbs of the city, I returned to my hotel to make 
preparations for hearing the opera. The opera-house is a noble 
building, standing in the immense square, opposite to the 
museum. I was told that I should hear "something anti- 
classical, neither Gluck, Mozart, or Beethoven ; certainly not 
Bach, but Offenbach!" The opera proved to be La Belle 
Helene, The orchestra of forty selected players did more than 
justice to the sparkling and brilliant tunes of the lively French 
composer ; indeed, the accompaniment to all the songs was 
throughout delicate and artistic ; the principal singers were, 
however, scarcely equally excellent ; the fair Helfene, especially, 
indulging in an extravagant amount of tremolando on nearly 
every note she produced. To me the most striking part of the 
affair was the engrossing attention paid to every detail of the 
performance by the crowded audience; they seemed to know 
every point in the opera, and would evidently have made the 
performers aware of their knowledge, had they been guilty of 
any faults of omission or commission. After the second act I 
repaired, by appointment, to the house of Herr Reinecke, with 
whom, and another musical friend, I spent a most delightful 
evening. 

Here, again, music was all in all ; for four hours we were 
entirely absorbed in it : now one plays the piano, then another ; 
now a duet, then an improvisation ; now a new original work, 
then an examination of some novelties by other composers; 
now a discussion on the state music of England, then the 
government support of music in Germany ; now organs and 

B 



1 8 A MUSICAL TOUR 

organists. And then (the creature comforts were not neglected) 
we adjourned to supper ; but music, music is still the theme of 
our conversation. At the end of the meal the never-failing 
fragrant weed with its accompaniment of Rhine wine is 
produced, and again we talk of music and musicians. "And 
now," said my host, " before we part, let me show you the most 
interesting and most valuable book in my library." He then 
brought out from amongst the tomes of great composers' works, 
with much care, an oblong folio book filled with autograph MSS. 
compositions by Bach, Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, Hummel, 
and many other famous musicians. This was one of the most 
interesting and valuable books I had ever seen. On its pages 
one could note how the thoughts of these great musical geniuses 
had been developed and written down. Beethoven was evidently 
as rapid in writing as he was full of ideas ; here is a passage of 
some seven or eight bars which as soon as it is written gives 
place to some other production of his fertile imagination, the 
pens mark it down with lightning rapidity, and the great master 
rests satisfied with the improved version. Mozart's notes are 
smaller, and neatly copied, but few corrections has the composer 
of Don Giovanni thought it necessary to make ; whilst HummeFs 
writing is the perfection of neatness and accuracy. " Yet one 
more book," said my hospitable friend, " and we will say gute 
nacht. Here is an album in which I have preserved, from 
crowned heads and musical celebrities, letters written to me 
during the last thirty years." In them were expressed the 
private thoughts and artistic views of Mendelssohn, Berlioz, 
David, Meyerbeer, Thalberg, Hiller, and indeed of nearly all 
the musical worthies of the age. At last, with grateful 
expressions on my part for the charming hours I had spent 
in such glorious company, and mutual hopes that our next 
meeting would be in Yorkshire, we parted. 

At ten o'clock on the following morning I repaired to the 
church of S. Nicholas, where I found, as usual, the organist, 
Dr. Papperitz, true to his appointment. The instrument in 
this church is one of the largest and most varied in its character 
of the notable modern organs of Germany, and has four manuals 
and ninety registers. The organist kindly showed me its 
varieties of tone in a short improvisation, and afterwards, Qt 
the particular request of Dr. Papperitz and the musical persons 
present, I had the pleasure of playing for nearly an hour, and 
making my hearers further acquainted with English music, of 
which their knowledge seemed to be rather limited. Not- 
withstanding the great size of this instrument, I found its 



IN NORTH GERMANY. 1 9 

arrangement so good that manipulation was comparatively easy. 
I much regretted that I had not been present on the previous 
Sunday, as there had been an organ concert, when Herr Rubke, 
a famous organist from Halle, played Bach's Toccata in F (so 
well known to English organists), and the gathering was made 
doubly interesting by the presence of the distinguished Abbd 
Liszt, who, in addition to his numerous other accomplishments, 
possesses a power, as an organ writer and player, of no mean 
order. My next letter will contain a further account, and a 
detailed description of this famous instrument. 



20 



A MUSICAL TOUR 



Letter IV. 



Leipzig, "ST^q,.— (Continued). 

The following is the disposition of the great organ in the Church 
of S. Nicholas, to which I alluded in my last letter : — 



Manual i. 



Bordun 

Principal 

Bordun 

Principal 

Gemshorn 

Gamba 

Doppelgedact 

Rohrquinte 

Octave 

Rohrflote 

Spitzflote 

Terzflote 

Quinte 

Octave 

Terz 

Cimbel 

Septime 

Cornett 

Mixtur 

Cornett 

Fagott 

Trompete 



32 ft. 


16 ft. 


16 ft. 


8 ft. 


8 ft. 


8 ft. 


8 ft. 


6 ft. 


4 ft. 


4 ft. 


4 ft. 


3^ ft. 


2§ft. 


2 ft. 


If ft. 


3 ranks 


2jft. 


5 ranks 


4 ranks 



16 ft. 

8 ft. 



Manual 2. 



Principal 

Quintaton 

Harmonica 

Flote trav. 

Octave 

Octavflote 

Piffero 

Piccolo 

Rohrquinte 

Scharf 

Clarinette 

Cornett 

Spitzquinte 

Terz 

Cimbel 



16 ft. 

16 ft. 

8 ft. 

8 ft. 
4 ft. 
4 ft. 
4 ft. 

2 ft. 
2§ft. 

3 ranks 

4 ft. 

3 ranks 
2§ft. 

If ft. 

4 ranks 



Oboe 

Vox Humana 

Tremulant 

Pneum-Werk 

Calcant 

Manual 
Leibl. Ged. 
Geigenprinc. 
Doppelflote 
Nassat 
Octavb. 
Violoncello 
Gedacktflote 
Nassat 
Octavb. 
Cornett 
Posaune 
Posaune 
Trompete 

Manual 

Viola 
Salcional 
Unda maris 
Liebl. Ged. 
Sanftflote 
Viola d'Amour 
Viola 
ZartflSte 
Nassat 
Violine 
Harm, ath. 
Aeoline 

Pedal. 

Principal bass 
Untersatz 
Principal bass 
Sub-bass 
Dulcian 



8 ft. 



16 ft. 
8 ft. 
8 ft. 
loj ft. 
8 ft. 
-8 ft. 
8 ft. 

54 ft. 

4 ft. 

5 ranks 
32 ft. 

16 ft. 
8 ft. 

4. 

16 ft. 
8 ft. 
8 ft. 
8 ft. 
8 ft. 
8 ft. 
4 ft. 
4 ft. 

3 ft. 

2 ft. 

3 ranks 
16 ft. 



32 ft. 
32 ft. 
16 ft. 
16 ft. 
16 ft. 



IN NORTH GERMANY. 



21 



Violon 


i6ft. 


Salicet 


i6ft. 


Terz 


12^ ft. 


Principal 
Fugara 


8 ft. 
8 ft. 


Rohrflote 


8 ft. 


Bordunflote 


8 ft. 


Quintaton 
Octave 


8 ft. 
4 ft. 


Hohlflote 


4 ft. 


Gedackt 


4 ft. 


Octave 


2 ft. 


Waldflote 


2 ft. 


Quinte 
Calcant 


lift. 

2 ft. 


Flageolet 
Trompete 
Ped. -ventil 


I ft. 

4 ft 

I 


Ped. -ventil 


2 


Ped. -ventil 


3 



7. Composition Pedals. 

2 — 1st Manual. 
2 — 2nd Manual. 
2— 3rd Manual. 
I — 4th Manual. 

I Pedal Forte. 
I Crescendo Pedal. 
I Decrescendo Pedal. 

Manual Couplers. 

Coupler to Manual 2. 
Coupler to Manual 3. 
Coupler to Manual 4. 

Pedal Couplers. 

Pedal Coupler to Manual i. 
Pedal Coupler to Manual 2. 



[N.B. — This is not the arrangement of stops found in the printed description of the 
organ supplied to the visitor, but I have rearranged their order according to the 
plan usually adopted in this country, so that the English student may the more readily 
perceive the composition of the instrument.] 

The case is of noble proportions and elaborate workmanship, 
occupying the whole breadth of the huge west gallery. In its 
flue-work there is a largeness and dignity of tone which, if 
not quite equal to that of the Zilberman organs, has at least, 
that pungency and grandeur happily considered indispensable 
in all German organs, ancient and modem. 

Some delicious effects were obtained from the registers on the 
4th manual, notably the violas of 4, 8, and 16 feet, as well as 
the Salcional and Harmonic flute, but even in this enormous 
instrument, the reeds appear to be of secondary importance, 
none of them coming up to the standard of the best specimens 
of English or French manufacture. The pedal organ possesses 
an exceedingly fine tone, full of variety, character, and power. 

It is in this church that the principal performances of sacred 
music in Leipzig take place, the leading organists of Germany 
being especially invited to exhibit their powers on an instrument 
of which the musicians and inhabitants generally are justly 
proud. But, notwithstanding its celebrity in most matters 
pertaining to the musical art, and to the fact that the greatest 
organist and organ composer of any age or nation lived and 
worked in Leipzig, the city does not, I believe, contain at the 
present time any organist professing solo performance of the 
same calibre as that to be found at some other places. The 
organ students of the "conservatorium" have not, therefore, 



22 A MUSICAL TOUR 

p 

the advantages in this department which they might obtain in 
many other parts of Germany, pre-eminently in Berlin ; arid 
moreover, they are compelled to " do " their practising on a very 
poor instrument with two manuals and a scrubby set of clumsy 
pedals in a small church to which they have access for this 
purpose. In other respects the organization of the "conserva- 
torium '' seems to be as complete as possible, and the 
instruments provided for the pianoforte students are of the 
best, and soon renewed when worn out with much playing ; 
still the importance of organ playing to the present generation 
of musicians who seek their education, at this important resort 
of artists, would point undoubtedly to reforms of a wholesale 
nature in this department of musical education, unless, indeed, 
students are expected, after the manner of Italians, to bring 
their organs on their backs. 

Most desirous was I of visiting the famous " Gewandhaus," 
the concert-hall, where for a number of years the most splendid 
performances have been given both of new and established 
works, and within whose walls the first artists of the day have 
thought it a privilege to appear. Here it was that Mendelssohn 
produced some of his finest inspirations, and organized and 
directed in 1838, a series of historical concerts which became 
celebrated, not only for the choice of works, but also for the 
refined excellence of their performance. It was here, too, that 
he re-wrote a great part of the " Hymn of Praise," the per- 
formance of which created so powerful a sensation that the King 
of Saxony publicly thanked the composer for the delight that it 
had given him, and demanded a repetition of the work. In 
1843, Mendelssohn produced here his "Walpurgis Night," and 
the celebrated violin concerto for his friend and old playmate, 
Ferdinand David, the leader of the orchestra. In Leipzig, in 
1847, England's favourite composer died, a comparatively young 
man, in the zenith of his power and genius. 

Unfortunately, my visit was made at a time of the year 
when no concerts are given ; this was a great disappointment, 
and I was obliged to be content v/ith an inspection of the 
building, robbed, indeed, of the vitality which it must possess at 
other times when the highest forms of musical composition 
fill its atmosphere, giving joy of the most exalted kind to the 
audience which throngs its walls. The great expectations one 
forms, so contrary to experience, of famous places, are seldom 
realized ; my visit to the Gewandhaus was no exception to 
the general rule, for I found it to be very little out of the 
common order of edifices for similar purposes in our own 



IN NORTH GERMANY. 23 

country. In large letters over the orchestra appears the motto, 
Res severa est verum gaudium. The performers at the concerts 
number sixty, each being an artist in the true sense of the 
word, and a master of his instrument. The detail and ensemble 
of these performances are regarded by the best musical judges 
as exhibiting all the highest qualities of orchestral execution ; 
and to be a member of this orchestra is generally considered 
throughout Europe a passport of excellence. During the season 
twenty performances are given, the subscription for a comfortable 
chair, or " stall," being £2^ or two shillings per concert. Here 
we have one of the reasons why music is so popular and so well 
understood in Germany. The highest forms of musical compo- 
sition and their perfect execution by the most celebrated artists 
of the day, may be frequently enjoyed at what would be 
regarded in England as a mere nominal charge for admission. 
The virtuosi who visit the British Isles deem it indispensable, 
and are well instructed beforehand that to obtain appreciation 
it is necessary to ask large sums for their services ; it is not 
too much to say that the best among the German artists 
would simply be laughed at were they to ask in their own 
country one-tenth part of the fees they demand from the 
inhabitants of generous England. Until some check be given to 
the exorbitant demands of all sorts of prima donnas and public 
performers, good, bad. and indifferent, no real progress can be 
made in the art in this country, whilst its beneficent influence 
amongst various classes of people must be very limited. So 
long, however, as managers and entrepenneurs yield to the 
extravagant notions of prominent, and, as they think, indis- 
pensable performers, both vocal and instrumental, but chiefly 
the former, the evil will continue, and art be degraded to 
a mere money-making matter, and the pandering to the insane 
vanity of a few fortunate people, who, though they may be 
obtaining but small pecuniary reward in their own country, and 
take their places side by side with less exacting but perhaps 
equally talented musicians, are elevated if they come to England 
to positions altogether unwarrantable. 

In Leipzig, as well as in all other towns of Germany, one of 
the essential elements of musical success is the local cultivation 
of music by both choral and instrumental associations formed 
of the inhabitants themselves, and without extraneous aid. 
There the system of itinerant orchestras and conductors, who 
drain the monied classes of subscriptions which would otherwise 
be devoted, to local musical societies, is unknown, and would 
never be tolerated. And if the large provincial towns in this 



24 A MUSICAL TOUR 

country do not rescue themselves from this evil custom, chiefly 
introduced amongst them by speculative foreigners, they will 
only have themselves to thank for the utter destruction of all 
those musical societies in which the north of England more 
especially prides itself so justly. It is well known that the 
"starring" system has exercised the most baneful influence 
upon the drama in this country, and precisely the same result 
may certainly be expected to follow the same practices with 
regard to music. 

After an interesting interview with Dr. Richter, the author 
of a " Manual of Harmony," translated by the American 
musician, Mr. W. Morgan, and extensively used in that country, 
I left Leipzig for Dresden. 



IN NORTH GERMANY. 25 



Letter V. 

Leipzig, Dresden, Gustav Merkel, etc. 

It should have been stated in my last letter that before I left 
Leipzig I visited two very interesting establishments connected 
with the production and publication of musical compositions, 
viz., the engraving rooms of C. G. Roder, and the warehouse 
of the great publishing firm, Breitkopf and Hartel. As I have 
already intimated, there are several enormous music publishing 
houses in Leipzig, those of Peters, and Breitkopf and Hartel, 
being perhaps the largest The latter I inspected, and was 
greatly impressed with that distinguishing mark of nearly all 
German work — political, artistic, and social — an apparently 
perfect organization, which was evident here in a pre-eminent 
degree. Ascending the broad staircase of an immense building, 
which led also to other places of business, I came to the first 
floor of Breitkopf and Hartel's. The length of the first room 
seemed to be about one hundred feet, and it was divided and 
sub-divided into many different departments. Being an 
Englishman, upon stating the object of my visit, I was at once 
shown to the particular place where the information I needed 
could be best obtained ; [ noticed, too, that the German 
professors and others, who came on business whilst I was there, 
were, without the loss of a moment, promptly directed in like 
manner. For the purpose of observing how far their plans of 
arrangement of the enormous amount of works they publish 
were carried, I asked for different works by the great masters, 
and was instantly shown what I had desired to see. Pianoforte 
was classed in one group of numerous shelves, divided and sub- 
divided ; vocal music, organ, orchestral, etc., in others ; every 
species of composition in their large catalogue was found and 
produced without the least delay. In another room were their 
excellent grand pianofortes, instruments of considerable power 
and sweetness, to be purchased at a much lower price than 
equally good ones in our own country, though decidedly not 
superior, if equal, to the best specimens of Broadwood^s, and 
Collard*s. I cannot say that on the whole this publishing 
firm showed a great and marked superiority over the largest 
English firms, but at the same time I think their system and 



26 A MUSICAL TOUR 

wonderful management are thoroughly worthy of observation 
and record by those who feel interested in the matter. 

With respect to engraving, the case is different, and I could 
not help seeing this during my visit to Herr Roder's establish- 
ment. Here, I think the Germans are superior to the English, 
not only in the extent and completeness of the place itself, but 
also in the excellence and character of the work produced. 
Nearly all the important classical works, reprints of Bach, 
Handel, Haydn, Beethoven, Mozart, etc., have been engraved by 
Herr Roder. Every task connected with the engraving of music 
is effected in this building. Beginning on the ground floor, 
there are the stones roughly hewn, brought from the mountains, 
and wrought into the necessary shape and smoothness, for the 
purposes of lithography, by huge grindstones. On the next 
floor was an accumulation of tin and pewter for plates, which 
are prepared in another room to a certain thickness and 
consistency ; they are then passed on to the next stage, where 
a numerous force of men and lads were engaged in punching, 
with neat and handy tools, the notes from the MSS. which 
stood before them. There were many of these rooms where 
the artizans were busily engraving all sorts of music. I was 
much interested and somewhat amused to be led up to a 
workman who was at that moment busily at work upon the 
latest number of the Organists' Quarterly fournal^ the copy for 
which I had, as its editor, despatched from England shortly 
before my departure. All those who have seen this, and 
other works, engraved by Herr Roder, will at once acknowledge 
the beauty and accuracy of the work ; the notes are sharper 
and clearer than those to which we have hitherto been 
accustomed in England, whilst the paper and printing ink are 
quite worthy of such good workmanship. Proceeding still 
further I came to the lithographic room, where thirty or forty 
men, women, and boys, were engaged in transferring the music 
to the stones ; these stones being then taken to a higher room, 
containing numerous printing presses, all of them being in full 
work. In another part of the building were many hundreds of 
these heavy stones placed in different niches with titles of 
various musical publications, which from their more elaborate 
and valuable character, are preserved, whilst the stones with 
impressions of music are rubbed and cleaned to be ready to 
receive fresh impressions. Amongst the numerous specimens 
of more beautiful and special engraving shown to me by Herr 
Roder, was a new Royal quarto edition of Beethoven's opera 
Fidelio^ vocal score and pianoforte accompaniment. It was 



IN NORTH GERMANY. 27 

printed on toned paper with a large margin, and a superb title- 
page, and a more exquisite piece of workmanship of its class 
I have never seen. 

The journey from Leipzig to Dresden was performed, 
according to my custom in a part of the country possessing but 
few beauties of nature, by the evening mail. I have nothing to 
record of it excepting that I found, as usual, some at least of 
my fellow travellers were interested in the practice and progress 
of the musical art, and were able to add to my information 
many things of interest and use. On my arrival at Dresden on 
Friday, at midnight, I soon found myself located at the 
magnificent Hotel de Saxe, which contains a splendid salle- 
a-man^er capable of dining five hundred persons, where, in 
the winter season, numerous and special concerts are given. 
Early on Saturday morning I despatched a messenger to Herr 
Gustav Heintz, the well-known music publisher, with an intro- 
ductory letter, and received a reply declaring his intention to 
visit me at noon. Fn accordance with the practical habits of the 
Germans, Herr Heintz acquainted himself with the chief objects 
of my visit, and at once made every arrangement to gratify my 
wishes to the utmost extent, and through his courtesy and 
kindness not much time elapsed before I had made the personal 
acquaintance of most of the leading organists and composers of 
Dresden. During the day, in his company, I visited most of 
the public buildings, and traversed the principal streets of this 
lovely city. Dresden is, in every respect, a charming place of 
residence, but especially for music-loving people. Possessing 
numerous well-appointed theatres, concerts, cafds chantants, on 
both banks of the Elbe, in all of which music of a high-class, 
well performed, is to be heard at very low prices of admission, 
there seems to be nothing omitted which could afford pleasure 
and delight to the musician, amateur, and visitor. 

Finding that Weber's opera, or rather drama, Preciosa^ was 
to be given in the evening at the " Zweites Theater," I 
proceeded there, and found the prices of admission to range 
from fifteenpence to threepence. Taking a reserved stall, I 
witnessed an excellent representation of this celebrated work 
with no little satisfaction. The orchestra was not large, beinr; 
chiefly composed of young artists, who, I was informed, played 
more to obtain experience than with a view to pecuniary profit. 
The heroine was played by a popular actress, Fraulein 
Hartmann. As a whole the opera was well performed ; but 
the singing, both solo and choral, was not particularly good. 
There, as in every similar place in Germany, I noticed the 



28 A MUSICAL TOUR 

remarkable attention of the audience to every detail of the 
performance. Between each of the acts one of those polite and 
handy German waiters, always found in such places, offered 
refreshment in the shape of a seidel of beer, a small bottle of 
Rketnweifiy German sausages, and Westphalia ham sandwiches. 
I was surprised and amused to see that several of the fairer 
sex in the pit hesitated not to associate with other female 
companions in a seidel of beer, and evidently with infinite 
gratification, accompanying the same with loud and earnest 
criticism on the part of the performance just concluded, but 
the moment the curtain was drawn, and the play resumed, 
the utmost silence and decorum prevailed. At the conclusion of 
the opera, I found my way to a much frequented cafd, at the 
back of which, in the large and brilliantly illuminated gardens, 
I met, by appointment, Herr Meinardus, the composer, whose 
oratorios — 5. Peter and Gideon — and other works, are well 
known in the chief towns of Saxony and Hungary. Here it 
was that I heard the first war-note sounded ; from an excited 
conversation amongst my friends, in which the names Napoleon 
and Hohenzollern were frequently uttered with considerable 
force and accent, I discovered the dispute, which, as is now 
well-known, led to the present lamentable war. As if not a 
moment should be lost I was awoke at 3 a.m. on the following 
day, Sunday, by the roll of drums and mustering of troops in 
the square in front of the hotel. A more exciting scene of its 
kind I had never witnessed. In the deliciously cool, clear 
atmosphere of that early morning in July, the square was 
filled with soldiers, and during the preparations for marching 
the magnificent band played two or three fine marches in a 
most effective and charming manner. I retired again to rest 
with the sounds of military music dying away as the soldiers filed 
off, and indulged in my dreamings of no end of martial music. 

At eight o'clock, before I had finished my toilet, I was 
astonished to receive a visit from my friend, Herr Gustav 
Merkel, whose organ compositions and performances are justly 
celebrated wherever they are known. He had called early, he 
said, in order to make me acquainted with the services at the 
Hofkirche, where he presides as court organist. I repaired at 
the appointed time to the church, which unequal, however, to 
most of our cathedrals, has a noble exterior and a very fine 
tower. It stands in a prominent and beautiful position near the 
bridge which crosses the Elbe. Here High Mass is celebrated 
every Sunday at eleven o'clock, and other services, such as are 
usual at Roman Catholic churches, follow during the day. 



IN NORTH GERMANY. 29 

The service on this occasion was most imposing, the large 
orchestra in the great West Gallery being occupied by about 
sixty performers (band and chorus), and the large organ, one 
of Silbermann's best instruments, of which I intend to give a 
description in my next letter. Crowds of people were pressing 
on, and it was with some difficulty that I gained an entrance, 
and obtained access to Herr MerkeFs organ pew. The music 
consisted of a Mass in F minor, by the conductor, Herr Carl 
Krebs ; an Offertorium, by Rastrelli ; and a Graduale, by 
Reissiger. With such a force of practical musicians, need 
I say that the music was given with thrilling power and effect? 
and I have no doubt that those who were below, in the body 
of the church, l^eard the inspiring strains to much greater 
advantage than I who was seated amongst the performers. 
At the conclusion of High Mass nearly all the immense con- 
gregation, as well as the members of the orchestra, departed, 
and there followed a short service, the musical part of which 
was sustained by about a dozen singing boys and singing men, 
with organ accompaniment only. I had now an opportunity 
of listening to the organ, and was struck with its rich, full tone. 
As, however, Herr Merkel's playing was limited to the require- 
ments of the service, he made an appointment with me for the 
following Tuesday, at ten o'clock, in order that we might hear 
the instrument alone and undisturbed. Meanwhile the organist, 
with Herr Meinardus and myself, adjourned to one of the 
beautiful cafes on the banks of the Elbe, only a very short 
distance from the church. The prospect was one of great 
beauty and interest. Thousands of people were passing to and 
fro on the picturesque bridge ; steamboats and every variety of 
craft plied up and down the broad river, whilst the patronizers 
of the cafes along its banks seemed thoroughly happy in the 
enjoyment of their refreshment and the scene. The heat was 
intense, and suddenly, with scarcely any intimation of the 
change, there broke upon us a fearful thunderstorm. Com- 
mencing with huge drops of rain, whose violence increased with 
extraordinary rapidity, it created for the time the greatest 
disorder, which, had it not been rather troublesome, would have 
been very amusing, for all seemed to vie with each other in 
their eagerness to snatch up their plates with their contents, 
wine, beer, etc., and rush, pe/e-me/e, into the interior of the 
building, rolling out a running accompaniment of national 
gutturals. For two hours the rain descended in torrents, and 
the atmosphere became thick and darkened. But notwith- 
standing this contretemps we had a most interesting conversation 



30 A MUSICAL TOUR 

about music and organs ; Herr Merkel being especially interested 
in the description I had with me, and explained to him, of the 
immense instrument in the Leeds Town Hall. It was then, 
as with all other organists I met during my tour, they knew 
nothing of English organs, English organists, or their compo- 
sitions. I could not help expressing a hope that this 
exclusiveness should be rectified by visits to England ; for 
clever as the organists of Germany at present are, they seem 
to be perfectly unacquainted with any but those of their own 
countiy. 

In the afternoon I went to the beautiful little English church, 
erected chiefly by the liberality of Mrs. Goschen ; there, on 
entering by a side door close to the organ, I heard the familiar 
strains of the hymn tune, " Melcombe." The young organist, 
Mr. David Beardwell, was extremely courteous, and most kindly 
offered to place his services at my disposal during my stay 
in Dresden. 



IN NORTH GERMANY. 3 1 



Letter VI. 
Reitz, Wagner, Magdeburg, etc. 

On the evening I followed the usual custom of the musical 
people of Dresden, and went to the Opera-house, a huge 
temporary wooden building, capable of seating three thousand 
persons, erected shortly after the lamentable fire at the late 
splendid Opera-house, which was totally destroyed. The prices 
of admission varied from 3s. 6d. to pd., the house being so 
constructed that everyone could both hear and see well. I had 
a front stall in the parquette, immediately in front of the stage 
and orchestra, and I was delighted to find on receiving a pro- 
gramme that my long wished for opportunity of hearing one of 
Wagner's most popular operas in Germany was now to be 
gratified. We were to have the " Meister-singer," and it was 
certainly put upon the stage and performed most effectively. 
The orchestra consisted of about sixty performers, directed by 
that able musician and composer Dr. Julius Reitz, Mendelssohn's 
friend. Whether from the intense heat and the want of proper 
ventilation in the building, or from the want of repose,^ variety 
and relief in the music, I was quite overcome at the end of the 
first act, and was compelled to return to my hotel — perhaps a 
wiser, if not a sadder man. Undoubtedly Wagner's instrumenta- 
tion is the work of a master, and not for one moment does he 
apparently allow the performers to indulge in the luxury of a 
few bars rest. Nearly every instrument in the orchestra seemed 
to have an obbligato part, and all were playing at one and the 
same time. It was impossible to catch more than the ghost or 
fragment of a tune. No sooner did the ear find a snatch of 
pretty melody when it instantly gave place to another equally 
brief ; every conceivable device seemed to be employed to render 
every subject peculiar and fragmentary, and yet undoubtedly 
many of the dramatic situations were powerful and effective. 
Especially interesting was the opening portion of the opera at 
the conclusion of the singular and overwrought overture. Here 
the scene in the church, the groupings, and never ceasing action 
of two or three score of people on the stage, undoubtedly excite 
lively interest, and seemed to be highly and fully appreciated by 



^2 A MUSICAL TOUR 

the composer's numerous admirers, who were present in full force, 
and some of whom did their best to impress upon my mind the 
sublime superiority of this and other Wagnerian effusions over 
the master -pieces of those great musicians whom either my 
education or my prejudices had taught me to esteem the highest. 
I did not hear very much of Wagner's music, but what I did 
hear I can conscientiously say I did not much like. Richard 
Wagner's music may possibly be worthy of association, as his 
admirers affirm, with the greatest operatic inspirations of Gliick, 
Mozart, Weber, Rossini, and Meyerbeer ; it may be possessed of 
many of the highest attributes of art; it may, and does un- 
doubtedly interest a large section of his country-men ; it may in 
its association with the dramatic books of his own construction 
produce novel and startling effects ; but it will never, in my 
humble opinion, become popular with those who love music for 
music's sake, and believe that melody, form, rhythm, and clear- 
ness of design are essential elements in all good and beautiful 
music. The works of the great masters, which defy the inroads 
of time, possess the two essentials of life and greatness, beauty 
and truth ; beauty as evidenced in its inspired tune and loveliness ; 
truth in conforming to the canons of art and to those rules 
of composition by which the man of genius avails himself of 
scholarship to cement and consolidate his ideas. Such was 
Beethoven in his grand symphonies. It would seem that 
Wagner, in his late productions, has aimed too much at mystifi- 
cation, or perhaps he regards it as originality. And yet he /las 
produced pleasing and intelligible music. His opera, "The 
Flying Dutchman," composed thirty years ago, and produced 
with considerable success in London this year, is not only 
natural and flowing in its music, but is sufficiently interesting 
and original to warrant the assertion that, had this composer 
followed the bent of his early inclinations and genius, he would 
have brought the whole musical world to acknowledge that he 
was the great musical apostle his followers and admirers now 
claim him to be — a claim to which, I venture to think, any but 
prejudiced people will deny his right. 

The day following I visited the Royal Porcelain Stores, and 
also took the welcome opportunity of seeing the magnificent 
collection of paintings in the famous and extensive Gallery, 
where are a number of representations of the interiors of 
churches by Peter Neuf, which will well repay careful study — 
and notably a remarkable effort of Ghering's, painted in the year 
1665, in which there appears a large organ, elevated on a screen 
over two arches ; but all this has been so frequently described 



IN NORTH GERMANY. 



33 



elsewhere that any further account is unnecessary. In the 
evening, after having been present at one of those sumptuous 
dinners for which the large hotels in Dresden are so celebrated, 
I repaired to the charming Belvidere Gardens on the banks of 
the Elbe, and there listened to the usual excellent band in the 
company of hundreds of persons enjoying themselves in a 
similar tranquil way, and apparently intensely appreciative of 
the pleasant strains. The next morning (Tuesday) I proceeded 
to the Hofkirche and kept my appointment with its well-known 
organist, Herr Gustav Merkel, whom I found waiting for me. 
He began at once to show the specialities and powers of the 
noble instrument which, built by Silbermann in 1754, has three 
manuals and a pedal organ of eight stops ; the following being 
its disposition : — 



Manual 


I. 


Principal 


16 ft. 


Bordun 


16 ft. 


Fagott 


16 ft. 


Principal 


8 ft. 


Gamba 


8 ft. 


Rohrflote 


8 ft. 


Trompete 


8 ft. 


Octave 


4 ft. 


Spitzflote 


4 ft. 


Quint 


2|ft. 


Octave 


2 ft. 


Terz 


lift. 


Cymbel 


3fui 


Mixtur 


4 ft. 


Cornett 


5 ft. 


Tremulant. 




Manual 


II. 


Quintaton 


16 ft. 


Principal 


8 ft. 


Gedact 


8 ft. 


Quintaton 


8 ft. 


Undamaris 


8 ft. 


Octave 


4 ft. 


Rohrflote 


4 ft. 


Nassat 


2|ft. 


Octave 


2 ft. 



Terz 


If ft. 


Flageolet 


I ft. 


Mixtur 


4 fug. 


Cornet (Echo) 


5%- 


Vox humana 


8 ft. 


Schwebung. 




Manual 


III. 


Gedact 


8fi. 


Schalmei 


8 ft. 


Principal 


4 ft. 


Rohrflote 


4 ft. 


Quinte (ged) 


2|ft. 


Octave 


2 ft. 


Terz 


*ft. 


Quinte 


lift. 


i5ifflot 


I ft. 


Mixtur 


3 ft. 


PEDAL 


» 


Subbass 


32 ft. 


Posaune 


16 ft. 


Principal 


16 ft. 


Octave 


8 ft. 


Trompete 


8 ft. 


Octave 


8 ft. 


Trompete 


4 ft. 


Mixtur 


6 ft. 


Coppel. 





No organ I heard in Germany pleased me better than this ; it 
has a ringing quality of tone of a rich and powerful character, 
and were the reeds equal to the flue work, the instrument would, 
for its size, be quite unsurpassed. As with previous German 
organists, Herr Merkel politely requested me first to try the 
organ, which T did by playing some English compositions, 
that appeared greatly to interest him ; and afterwards he 
performed in his own admirable style Bach's Passacaglia in C 

C 



34 A MUSICAL TOUR 

minor, one of Schumann's Fugues on the name of Bach, and 
some of his own charming compositions. The reverberation 
and echo in this church, when empty, are great indeed, greater 
than I have heard in our English Cathedrals and large public 
buildings, and I need scarcely add that this fact considerably 
militated against the clear and distinct hearing of the music. 
I ought to mention that the case which contains the organ 
is one of immense size, excellent design, and most richly 
ornamented. Most of the i6ft. metal pipes are placed in front 
and divided into five compartments 

The next day, in accordance with an invitation, I paid a visit 
to Dr. Julius Reitz, when we discussed at length musical matters 
in general, but more particularly the redoubtable Richard 
Wagner, as well as organ-music, German and English. As 
with other Germans I found him also quite unacquainted with 
any compositions for the king of instruments by Englishmen, 
and I felt it therefore a pleasure to be able to enlighten this able 
musician by going through with him not only many excellent 
works written for the organ, but also several cantatas, anthems, 
etc., by some of our first composers. On the whole he seemed 
somewhat surprised and much gratified by their perusal. I was 
highly pleased to receive from Dr. Reitz a copy of a new and 
exquisite duet which he had just written for organ and violin, 
and which, since my return to England, I have frequently 
introduced (such favour has it earned) at my own organ concerts 
in Leeds. The pleasure of my visit to this most amiable 
musician was further enhanced by a promise from him to send 
me a contribution for my organ book. 

On the evening of the same day, after having discovered and 
supplied myself with many new musical publications of much 
interest and beauty, I left Dresden for Magdeburg. During the 
journey a singular incident occurred which showed unmistakably 
how well the musical education of the young is cared for in 
Germany. 

At one of the stations (Oschatz) where we stopped for 
refreshment, a number of boys (perhaps twenty) returning 
from school, were met by their companions and also by 
several young girls, whose joy at returning home was evidenced 
in their beaming, happy countenances. The whole party 
quickly formed into a procession, and, marching off two abreast 
with military precision, headed by the biggest boy, who played 
a large accordion, sang with excellent time and accent to some 
appropriate words the following pretty and simple two-part 
song : — 



IN NORTH GERMANY. 



35 





I reached Magdeburg in the middle of the night, and early 
on the following morning called upon Dr. Ritter, the organist 
of the Cathedral, to whom I had a letter of introduction, but 
to my great disappointment found that he had left home only 
the day previous for his usual fortnight's holiday, and that 
the immense Cathedral organ which I had travelled nearly 
200 miles to hear would not, and could not, as my informant 
told me, be played during the doctor's absence. I had, therefore, 
to content myself with an inspection of the Cathedral, in which 
are many beautiful objects of art, the marble pulpit especially 
claiming attention, and with eliciting such information of the 
organ as the attendants of the Cathedral could afford me. The 
instrument which now stands in the church was built under 
the direction of Dr. Ritter and N. Reubke, of Hansneindorf, 
near Quedlenburg, at a cost of 7,cxx) thalers. It has four 
manuals, eighty-one registers, and 5,256 pipes, most of the metal 
pipes being made of almost pure tin ; it has also the advantage 
of the pneumatic lever, and other modern inventions for 
facilitating performance. On leaving the Cathedral, which I 
did with a deep sigh of disappointment, having travelled so far 
for such small results, I encountered several troops of artillery 
just proceeding from the great fortress of Magdeburg, and who 
have since, I understand, actively engaged in the thick of the 
I was now anxious to return to my friends at Hamburg, 



war. 



for which hospitable city I left at 11.30 a.m., arriving there 
safely at 5.10 p.m. 



36 A MUSICAL TOUR 



Letter VII. 
Hamburg again ; Wars and Rumours of Wars. 

It was a relief and a pleasure to find myself once more 
amongst my Hamburg friends, for, during my journey from 
Magdeberg, I had heard the war note sounding frequently, and 
in a manner not always the most harmonious or agreeable. All 
along the line of railway excited groups of people were gathered 
at the different stations, discussing the probabilities of the war 
which had that day been declared against their own Vaterland. 

In Hamburg, the excitement was intense. I went with my 
friends to the Exchange, always an interesting and exciting 
scene, when the merchants gather in thousands between the 
hours of one and two ; but now the place was perfectly alarming 
from the roar of voices and animated conversation of the 
traders and others who thronged that immense square on 
the ground floor of the Hamburg change. 

When I remember the different expressions made to me on 
that memorable day, and compare notes with the facts as they 
exist at the present, I cannot but regard the general judgment 
of the Germans at the time, as having been founded on a 
confidence in their own powers, which was not altogether 
misplaced or overestimated. " Napoleon," said one, " little knows 
what our resources are." *'We have," said another, "tried to 
avoid fighting, and done our best to remove any cause of 
quarrel, but he will not be pacified ; he will fight, and now, 
mein Herr, he shall have it, and in a way which he will never 
forget." "We are no match for him on the sea, that we know 
full well, still we think we know how to prevent him from 
coming into our ports, and our own dear Hamburg he shall 
not touch." How true these words were, most of us will now 
well know. To me, they indicated a complete change in the 
peaceful occupation of my tour. Up to this time it had been 
peace, peace, peace. It was now war, war, horrid war. More- 
over, there was a little change from that kindly feeling and 
sentiment which I had so much admired during the first part 
of my journey, and I saw clearly that I must now make the 
best of my way back to old England ; and so, at the close of 



IN NORTH GERMANY. 37 

my second day in Hamburg, I secured a berth in the well- 
known steamer the " Grimsby," which has since been more than 
once overhauled by French cruisers, and arrived in Great 
Grimsby early on Sunday morning, July 17th. Shortly after 
leaving Hamburg, when off Heligoland, the passengers were 
greatly alarmed to sight what was said to be a French fleet, 
w^hich proved, however, to be, on nearer approach, the chief 
ships of the Prussian navy, making their way as quickly as 
possible into ports where they would be safe from the attacks 
of their more powerful opponents. 

And now, having finished my tour, I will venture to offer a 
few general observations on the cultivation and practice of 
music in North Germany, and in what respect we, in England, 
differ from our Teutonic friends. I may first say that musical 
training throughout Prussia is regarded as an indispensable 
feature in the education of every child, no matter What the creed 
or position, of their parents. In the state-aided schools, not 
only is part- singing regularly, systematically, and efficiently 
taught, chiefly from the large black music board, but partly from 
the cheap hand books so plentiful throughout Germany ; but to 
every school there is attached outside masters who impart a 
knowledge of playing on different instruments for fees which 
would be considered in England ridiculously small — too small, 
indeed, to reward sufficiently these painstaking educators. The 
result of this early musical training is to be found in the fact 
that the whole of the people of Germany at the present time 
are more or less musicians. Where any particular talent for 
the art is shown, there are plenty of relatives and friends 
ready to give counsel and advice as to the best mode of 
developing it in the numerous schools and conservatoires which 
exist throughout the country, * and which, be it remembered, 
are partly supported by Government aid. But whatever course 
in life is marked out for the German child, there he carries 
with him sound elementary musical instruction which enables 
him both to perform and appreciate music in a way which 
must conduce to the advancement of the art, and the stability 
of its professors. Moreover, the education of the professional 
musician is thorough^ not only for performances, but in theory 
and the higher forms of composition. 

In this country it is often considered sufficient for teachers 
to be able to play a few showy pieces on the pianoforte, or on 
any other instrument they may wish to teach. The German 
vocalists, too, as a rule (though we may not always admire 
their somewhat hard and inflexible style), are well acquainted 



38 A MUSICAL TOUR 

with the theory of music, and feel no difficulty in reading at 
first sight complex works. There, as a rule, female teachers are 
not recognised, excepting as overlookers, in a matter of practice 
and preparation for the masters* lessons. The increasing 
cultivation of music has brought to the surface, in the large 
towns of England especially, swarms of ill-educated, incompe- 
tent youthful teachers, of both sexes, who generally are enemies 
and hindrances to the progress of true art — who teach upon 
no artistic data — and who impart that paltry smattering of 
musical instruction which develops itself in the encouragement 
and performance of senseless, puerile comic songs, trumpery 
dance music, and easy effeminate compositions, both sacred 
and secular, of no meaning, purpose, or good intent.* In 
music, too, as in almost every other matter, the Germans are 
thoroughly national. We are indeed, as I have already stated 
elsewhere, greatly behind both the Germans and the French in 
that esprit de corps ^ that national union of purpose and interests, 
which help so enormously to consolidate, elevate, and prosper 
every good and useful undertaking. Throughout my intercourse 
with the German musicians, I found them anxious — sometimes, 
indeed, too anxious — to recommend and eulogise their fellow- 
workers in the art. Most of our professional musicians are 
aware how different this matter is in our own country, so 
favoured in many respects, and yet so sadly behind in others. 
In every German town, great or small, there are numbers of 
people who live by, and upon, music. Music is a necessity of 
the community in which they live, and it is, therefore, for their 
interest and happiness not only to agree amongst themselves, 
but also to emulate each other with friendly rivalry in obtaining 
the greatest amount of perfection in whatever branch of the 
art they undertake. It must be noted also how greatly the 
musicians of Germany are indebted for the prosperity of music, 
to its recognition and encouragement by the press. Not only 
have they an immense number of publications of a didactic 
character, exclusively devoted to music, but almost every news- 
paper throughout Germany apportions a considerable amount of 
space in noticing musical performances of various kinds, new 
publications, and letters bearing upon the progress and 
cultivation of the art. 

With a few honourable exceptions, the press of our own 

* It must be remembered that this was written in 1870, before the great advance 
had been made in Great Britain in the higher branches of musical education, by the 
establisliment of large, new colleges, examination boards, and an increase of better 
and more advanced teachers, both vocal and instrumental. 



IN NORTH GERMANY. 39 

country give only small attention to the subject. Ordinary 
reporters, accomplished in other respects, but, musically 
speaking, profoundly ignorant, are constantly employed — often 
against their will — to write articles upon musical performances 
of a high character. This want of knowledge and appreciation 
of music on the part of newspaper editors and their assistants, 
many of whom obtain their impressions and information from 
either bumptious or biased persons, is no doubt a great drawback 
to the progress of the art in this country. As, however, immense 
sums are spent by those who provide concerts and other musical 
entertainments, in advertising, it seems but just to expect that 
newspaper proprietors should give more attention to the subject, 
and endeavour to secure the services of a musical contributor, 
as is now invariably the case with the French, German, and 
American newspapers ; one who would take sufficient interest 
in the art, not only to write con amcre^ but with a view to impart 
information and instruction. 

In a previous letter, I alluded to the choral associations of 
Germany as one of their greatest sources of strength in music, 
and I cannot refrain from reiterating my fervent hope, that 
the people of England will perceive that in proportion to the 
support and encouragement they ^ivo, to their own local 
institutions, so will the knowledge and practice of music 
become more general, more appreciated, and further advanced. 
Undoubtedly, England has done much and well for music 
within the last quarter of a century, and every true lover of the 
art rejoices in its increased and increasing cultivation among 
all classes. In proof of this, I need only refer to the numerous 
musical associations and societies — public and private — 
established throughout the length and breadth of the land, for 
the practice and performance of both vocal and instrumental 
music. The opportunities largely embraced of hearing. good 
music excellently performed, and very often — though not so 
often as could be desired — at a small cost to the listener, afford 
another and unmistakable instance, that the love' of music 
pervades all grades of society, and has become an indispensable 
element in the recreation of all classes of the people. The 
formation of vocal classes, and brass bands by artizans, is also a 
matter of much satisfaction to those who believe as I do, in the 
power and beneficial influence of music as a kindly and social 
agent ; the publication of classic works in a cheap form, the issue 
of several literary and other serials devoted to the interests of 
music ; the number of compositions frequently issued by the 
great publishing firms, whose large establishments, together with 



40 A MUSICAL TOUR IN NORTH GERMANY. 

those for the manufacture of pianos, also testify to the increasing 
love and practice of music ; and last, but not least, the almost 
universal adoption of a higher style and better performance 
of sacred music in our churches and other places of worship ; 
all these facts give strong and unmistakable evidence of the 
great progress the art has made in England of late years, and 
which would be increased to a much larger extent, could we be 
sufficiently wise to derive those lessons of profit and instruction, 
which assuredly are to be learnt from the experiences of our 
more artistic European neighbours, especially from those whom 
I have more particularly specified in the letters I now conclude. 

LeedSy Christmas, 1870, 



P 



A WEEK'S MUSIC IN LONDON DURING THE 

HANDEL FESTIVAL, 1877. 

"Don't forget the Handel Festival, sir, t'end of June," said 
one of my bass singers, in stentorian tones, early in April, after 
one of the Madrigal Society's rehearsals of Jephtha, which I had 
been conducting : " don't forget to put me in ; for though we 
know a bit or two of old Handel in Yorkshire, and have sung 
many of his oratorios through and through, we don't get him 
anywhere so grand as at the Handel Festival in the Crystal 
Palace, when he fairly stands before ye, sir, in the shape of a 
giant orchestra of four thousand performers." 

" I won't forget you, Sam," I replied, " you shall have your 
ancient love of Handel's sublime music gratified to the full, if 
my recommendation of you be accepted I have myself been 
at all the festivals since their inauguration in 1857, and I am 
most anxious to be present now in 1877 to observe what 
improvements, if any, have been effected after an experience 
of twenty years." 

" All right,'' said Sam, " and I hope we shall both meet after, 
and have a good long talk over it when it's fair done with, and 
compare notes, sir." 

And so I parted from my warm-hearted, plain spoken, 
enthusiastic Handelian, who, I am happy to say, in company 
with thirty or forty other Yorkshire choralists, duly received 
their engagements from the Sacred Harmonic Society, and 
proceeded to London on Thursday, June 21st, so as to be ready 
for the general rehearsal at the Palace on the following day. 
Nothing very particular happened on the journey, except that 
whenever the train was brought up at any station, we could 
hear Sam and the other full-voiced singers, who were 
in a carriage behind mine, trolling heartily one of their 



42 A week's music in LONDON 

favourite glees, or part-songs, especially Webbe's jolly old glee — 

"As the moments roll, 
Let new joys inspire : 
Hebe fills the bowl, 
Orpheus tunes the lyre. 
Let each cheerful heart 
Join the festive strain, 
Thus before we part 
We'll be young again." 

"What's all this about ?" said a sallow-faced, tall passenger 
to a porter who was standing on a carriage step with his hand 
on the door fastener, " what are they singing about ? " 

" Only 'andle, sir, *andle : " with which very clear explanation, 
the stranger disappeared into his compartment, wondering no 
doubt what " 'andle " meant. 

However, to the real Handel we paid our respects, and took 
our places the next day at 12 o'clock, immediately in front of 
the mammoth orchestra called after the great maestro — the 
courteous stewards of the Sacred Harmonic Society directing 
our steps to our seats in the great central area. I know of few 
sights more striking and impressive than the appearance of the 
Crystal Palace, from this spot, on a Handel Festival day. The 
eye first wanders bewildered amongst the four thousand per- 
formers in the gigantic orchestra, where the well-dressed ladies 
of the choir appear in all the variegated hues of the rainbow, 
fanning themselves in the most vigorous fashion, as if the agitated 
air they made would almost fill the bellows of the great organ 
itself; then we glance at the thousands forming the audience 
— every class and every size, every taste and every dress, 
musical, unmusical, silent, chatty, attentive, inattentive, interested, 
indifferent, modest, and inquiring, bumptious, important, and 
" know-a-thing-or-two " sort of people. 

It is true this was called " Rehearsal Day," but the name 
was undoubtedly a misnomer. It was a performance of 
the most favourite excerpts from each of the three day's 
programmes, which many thousands of persons paid to hear ; 
and, there being no corrections of numerous palpable imper- 
fections, the " rehearsal " enlarged itself into a formal and most 
attractive musical exhibition. 

First, we had the tuning of the orchestra, to the incessant and 
rather tiresome noise of the organ played by the able organist 
with all the strength in his power, — the strings, brass, and wood, 
of the immense band, vehemently emulating the rasping tones 
of this not very sweet specimen of the "King of Instruments," — 
the whole thing promoting conversation to an alarming and 



DURING THE HANDEL FESTIVAL, 1 877. 43 

head-aching extent. Such, however, is the appreciation of art 
by some of the London critics, that we read in an evening 
paper of the same day the following or a similar astounding 
piece of information, which I quote from memory : — " Mr. 
Willing's tuning up on the great organ was truly magnificent. 
Combined with the sublime and majestic harmonies of John 
Sebastian Bach and George Frederick Handel, the organist 
skilfully varied his improvisation, by the introduction of the 
more modern and chromatic chords of Spohr, Meyerbeer, and 
Wagner. Truly the effect was imposing ! " After this I 
scarcely think provincial criticism need fear. Sir Michael Costa, 
emperor of conductors, having been received with the cordiality 
so eminently his due, proceeded at once to let us hear the 
quality and quantity of both band and chorus. There was 
no mistake. The balance of tone was all that could be desired, 
or at least obtained in such a vast space. Everyone stood up. 
Place for the Queen ! Cold indeed was the heart that did not 
warmly respond to the soul-stirring delivery of a grateful 
nation's prayer, " Long live our gracious Queen ! " And now, 
place for Mr. Handel, and hear what he has to say. Stand 
up again and meekly take off your hats : — " Hallelujah ! for 
the Lord God omnipotent reigneth." How many hundred times 
have I heard this sublime inspiration ? and yet it was as fresh 
and grand as ever — dignified, impressive, overwhelming ! And 
then a mighty " Amen " — the final chorus in the Messiah — the 
most intense vocal fugue ever written, and the most scholarly 
and overwhelming finale to an oratorio ever conceived. Both 
of these choruses were sung with a steadiness and vigour never 
surpassed at a former festival, if at all approached. With the 
aid of my opera-glass, I discovered Sam among the basses, with 
a face beaming like a full moon — a waistcoat as white as snow 
— and, evidently, a heart flowing with honest rapture over the 
genial " sing " he was having anent his musical god, Handel. 
This was a triumph for the choir. Now for the orchestra, with 
the Occasional Overture^ a piece of music familiar probably to 
every village organist in the world. Still, there it was, fresh, 
effective, and stirring. Would it have been, in so vast a space 
and with such an array of players, without Costa's skilful 
additional instrumentation ? Emphatically, No ! Following 
this was another fine choral work, the coronation anthem, 
" The King shall rejoice," in which the fugue in B minor, with 
its prolonged pedal point on the dominant, displays the 
composer's great learning and power. No living persons could 
sing the solos better than those to whom they were entrusted. 



44 A WEEK S MUSIC IN LONDON 

Mr. Lloyd and Mdme. Patey especially distinguishing them- 
selves by the purity of their style, and a total absence of that 
personal ostentation and demonstrative conceit so frequently 
displayed by popular singers, to the injury of the music, and 
the annoyance of every sensible occupant of the auditorium. 
But solos, to my mind, are entirely out of place in the Handel 
Festival orchestra. One may as well almost sing "Heart, the 
seat of soft delight," on the table land at Flamboro' Head to an 
audience of fishermen in their boats on thd rough sea below. 

Another choral triumph was the fine chorus from behhazzar^ 
" Sing, O ye heavens," with its bright and happy accompani- 
ments, so thoroughly Handelian in their character. A little 
less effective, perhaps, was the well-known chorus, " Let their 
celestial concerts all unite," in which the descending scales of 
semiquavers were not quite well together ; but the final chords 
came out like musical thunder, and worthily brought to a close 
the first part. 

I wandered away to the back of the orchestra, and there 
pounced unawares upon my friend Sam, who immediately 
exclaimed in strong northern vernacular, "Isn't it grand, sir? 
foiner than I ever heard it afore ; I feel it a-creeping all down 
my back." 

" Dear me, Sam," I said, " where did you sleep, then, last 
night?" 

" Ah now, please sir, don't joke about the like of this ; it is 
beautiful, and I've enjoyed mysen grandly this morning." 

" Indeed, / have, Sam ; and am persuaded that we shall, in 
a musical point of view, witness the finest Handel Festival we 
have yet attended." 

" It's right, sir," replied Sam, who, casting a wistful glance at 
his companion, looked slyly at me, and added, "And I tell 
thee what it is, doctor, singing Handel for two hours is an 
uncommon dry job, and I'm just off now to see if I can't handle 
a quart mug." 

After half an hour's interval, and a pleasant chat with many 
dear old musical friends, and " them dreadful crickets of the 
newspapers," as Mrs. Malaprop would say, we returned to our 
seats, where, opera-glassing the occupants of the orchestra, it 
was a foregone conclusion that they had adjourned from labour 
to refreshment, and that profit and pleasure were evidently 
the mutual results. 

First, we had the gratification of listening to Mr. Best's 
splendid playing of the well-known B flat Concerto, for organ 
and orchestra, a work originally written for the harpsichord. 



DURING THE HANDEL FESTIVAL, 1877. 



45 



with accompaniments for violin and violoncello, and therefore 
not so well adapted to the genius of the organ as some others 
of the famous six. The tone of that organ does not mix well 
with the orchestra, and neither were they in accord in respect 
of time, especially in the last eight bars of the tutti concluding 
with the allegro moderate. It is deeply to be regretted that, on 
such a glorious occasion as this, so great a player had not 
a finer instrument to manipulate ; but I am assured that this 
is no fault of the eminent builders, whose many other organs 
testify to their skill and success, but to the lack of funds and 
a fitting opportunity on the part of the Crystal Palace Company 
to build a special organ exactly suited in scale, tone, and 
design, for the huge building where it is so often required. 

The chief features of the remaining selections included the 
superb chorus, " The dead shall live," from Dryden's Ode to S. 
Cecilia's Day, one of the most spontaneous of Handel's choral 
inspirations, in his favourite key of D. Scholarly as is the fugal 
writing throughout, and beautifully varied by contrast of key, 
yet no part of this chorus made so sublime an effect as the 
following and similar simple passages, given out with full power 
of band, chorus, and organ : — 




The dead shall live, the liv - ing die ; the dead shall live, Sac. 



m 



m=^ 



^nrTi 



(( 




And music shall untune the sky 



May our glorious hopes of futurity be cheered by the 
remembrance of such divine strains ! 

Then followed a selection from what is justly regarded as the 
most powerful of all the master's choral works, Israel in Egypt, 
But of this more hereafter, in its proper place. Enough that we 
were treated to nearly five hours of Handel's music, and became 
sufficiently mortal and unsophisticated to require dinner, which, 
in company with three devoted Handelians, we obtained to 
perfection at Sawyer's admirable dining-room in the Palace, and 
then made the best of our way to our respective homes and 
hostelries, having " done," to our own satisfaction at least, our 
first day of a week's music in London. 

On the following day (Saturday) I visited several of the large 
music-publishing firms, notably, Novello, Ewer and Co., Boosey 



46 A week's music in LONDON 

and Co., Metzler and Co., and Ashdown and Parry, not only for 
personal business purposes, but to view their splendid establish- 
ments, and observe how they have gone on from little to more, 
until they have become eminent examples of enterprise and 
success. In Novello's spacious front shop in Berners Street 
(there is another place of business in the city), a whole side 
is covered with pigeon-holes, containing back numbers of the 
Musical Times ; whilst innumerable shelves in various rooms 
contain thousands upon thousands of popular oratorios, anthems, 
organ pieces, services, etc. At Metzler's, in Great Marlborough 
Street, a beautiful new warehouse has just been erected, contain- 
ing every convenience for the exhibition and storage of all sorts 
of musical instruments, from the famous American organ, down 
to the pretty little flageolet, as well as for their extensive catalogue 
of musical publications. Almost the same thing may be said of 
Messrs. Boosey's similarly famous house ; whilst the piles — the 
miles, I had almost said — of folio sheet music at Messrs. 
Ashdown and Parry's admirable establishment in Hanover 
Square, fills one with astonishment at the enormous quantity 
of new music which is daily being issued from the music-press 
of the metropolis. 

In the evening I went to both operas — Covent Garden first, to 
hear and see Adelina Patti in Verdi's last opera, Aida^ and 
afterwards to Her Majesty's to witness the d^but of Mdlle. 
Ethelka Gerster in the familiar Somnambula. Of course, I could 
only hear a part of each performance — but both were most 
interesting, and greatly charmed me. 

Aida, as an opera, contains many fine situations for imposing 
histrionic effects ; but its music, delightful as some of it is, did 
not strike me as partaking of that fascinating, melodious style, so 
characteristic of Verdi's earlier operas. Nothing, however, could 
exceed the charm of Mdme. Adelina Patties acting and singing, 
and I left with regret the attractions of one famous cantatrice to 
witness those of another. 

I did not reach Her Majesty's Opera until ten o'clock, and, 
consequently, only heard the latter part of La Somnambula, in 
which rather weak opera the new Hungarian prima donna elected 
to make her first impression on an English audience. Combined 
with a voice of great compass and exquisite, sympathetic quality, 
Mdlle. Gerster possesses knowledge and power of vocalism of the 
very highest order ; her finished execution of the old favourite, 
" Ah non giunge," giving incontestable proof ot this I did not 
see it fall, but in one of the papers I read the next morning -that 
she had "brought down the house." The band was superb, play- 



DURING THE HANDEL FESTIVAL, 1877. 47 

ing under Sir Michael Costa^s direction with the sharpness and 
verve of a single accomplished performer. How I longed to 
hear these wonderful fellows in the Fidelio, or in some other 
opera by a really great master of the orchestra — not Bellini. 

With Sunday came my visit to two representative churches — 
St. Pancras, Euston Road, in the morning for the Evangelical 
" followers," and All Saints', Margaret Street, in the evening, for 
the Ritualistic adorners. My observations, however, will not be 
on doctrines or formulas, but respecting the music used and the 
impression it made on my mind. 

The service at St. Pancras commenced at eleven ; and precisely 
at that hour Mr. Henry Smart, the premier organist of London, 
played a beautiful, impressive, extemporaneous voluntary, in 
E flat, on Gray and Davidson's fine-toned organ. The responses, 
versicles, etc., were made by the large congregation (upwards 
of 2,000 persons), led by a clerk (a character that I thought had 
long ago vanished), in tones loud and clear (probably from 
practice severe), in the natural speaking voice. The well-known 
double chant in A, by Goss, transposed into G, was sung to 
Venite Exultemus by the school children and the whole congre- 
gation with a heartiness and exactness deeply religious and 
impressive. There is no choir. The congregation form one 
vast choir. No one seems to " put in a second " or attempts 
to do a bit of harmony on his own account — but all sing the 
melody — and a grand unison it is ! If the Daily Psalms had 
been given in a similar way, that would have been a great 
and elevating act of worship ; but they were read throughout — 
and thus nullified the injunction and invitation implied in Venite 
Exultemus^ " O come let us sing unto the Lord." The canticles 
were all sung to double-chants — and well sung too, by " the 
people." The rest of the music was confined to hymns and 
organ voluntaries. And here let me say at once that in no 
church that I know (I have been to a large number) can you 
hear these too important adjuncts to divine service rendered 
more impressively, more devotional ly, and more artistically than 
at St. Pancras' Church. The manner in which Dr. Dykes's tune 
to the Trinity Hymn, " Holy, Holy, Holy !" was given out, is a 
thing to be remembered — our modern organists can't do it ; at 
least, but few of them. Both the singing of this and the grand 
hymn, " Nun danket alles Gott " (" Now thank we all our God "), 
as well as the organ accompaniment, cannot easily be erased 
from the memory. May it live in mine for ever ! And then 
there was another display of genius in the extempore voluntary 
at the close of the service — a masterpiece of skill and true 



48 A week's music in LONDON 

musical feeling. Young organists, let me advise you to get an 
early opportunity of hearing Henry Smart play the organ at St 
Pancras' Church, before it is too late, or else the finest genius of 
the organ living may have passed away — long distant may the 
day be when this calamity befalls us ! 

And now for the other church — All Saints'. A beautiful 
building, well adapted to the kind of service adopted here, 
and a fine organ by Hill, played by an able organist, Mr. 
W. S. Hoyte. We did not arriv^e in time for the commence- 
ment of the service, but heard the daily Evening Psalms. 
These were all sung to the same Gregorian chant : 



1 



^m 



Y^— rj ^=^ z=jdr-^=^ 



^=^=^ 



'- <d-cJ. 



The words were gabbled fast, and the music was loud 
throughout. This may be satisfactory to the priests, choir, 
and congregation of All Saints', but it did not please me. 
Certainly I could not appreciate the division of the words, 
for instance, in the Gloria Patri, " Glory be to the Father, and 
to the So-6n.'* Many persons like this ; I don't. 

The Magnificat and Nunc Dimittis^ founded on Gregorian 
tones, and dressed up with modern harmonies, did not seem 
to me to be sufficiently varied in character to ^\v^ adequate 
expression to the beautiful words of these time-honoured 
cantioles ; neither can it be admitted that there was much 
devotional feeling in the furious recitation of the Apostles' 
Creed and the Lord's Prayer to a rather loud organ accom- 
paniment. 

The anthem, " I will extol Thee," adapted from HummeFs 
" Quod in orbe," is more theatrical than ecclesiastical, with a 
fanfare sort of organ accompaniment, played on piccolos and 
reeds. It neither pleased myself nor the eminent musician who 
stood by my side, whose elevated and elevating style of church 
music offers so many fine examples of what is really dignified, 
spirited, beautiful, and thoroughly appropriate to the spirit and 
purport of the words. The hymns were, of course, sung at a 
great speed, St. Pancratius being so fast that I did not at first 
recognise a grand old tune I had known from childhood. At 
the conclusion of the service the organist played in brilliant 
style a showy fantasia by Behrens. 

With Monday, June 2Sth, came the first day proper of the 
Handel Festival, Messiah, the most popular oratorio ever — or 



DURING THE HANDEL FESTIVAL, 1 877. 49 

ever likely to be — composed, was the chosen work wherewith 
to usher in the series of magnificent performances which would 
occupy three days of music from the same prolific pen during 
this memorable week. 

Leaving our comfortable quarters at the Great Northern 
Hotel, so admirably managed by X. Meyer (formerly of Leeds), 
our party soon found ourselves entangled at the Ludgate Hill 
Station with a portion, at least, of the eighteen thousand — 
besides the four thousand performers — who were on their way 
to 'assist, as the phrase goes, at this great choral gathering. 
In the railway carriages taking us to the Palace we were all 
charmingly mixed up together, first and third class passengers, 
not the slightest check being given to one or the other until 
the presentation of the tickets at the end of our destination. 
But why first class should be compelled for want of room to 
ride third, and third should fill the first carriages without let 
or hindrance, I confess myself unable to comprehend. Perhaps 
the railway authorities will explain ; I cannot. 

Landed at the Crystal Palace, the surging, chattering crowd 
seek their places to the '* splendid tuning up " of the great organ 
and the thousand instrumentalists ; all round, a very pretty 
noise, as well as a most animated scene. But here we are, once 
more, to listen to The Messiah, Amongst the treasures of the 
sacred lyre there is none which unites so many of the elements 
of beauty and sublimity as The Messiah, We are equally 
affected by its grandeur and its tenderness, its pathos and 
rejoicing; it melts us with the deepest compassion; a loving 
devotion broods over the work as with the wings of an angel ; 
it is the song of hope and gratitude asking a response from 
immortal souls. 

I could not help reflecting, whilst listening to the sweet airs 
and the mighty choruses which abound in this grand inspiration 
of genius, how fortunate it was that Handel's ill success in 
operatic composition and speculation led him, in the latter part 
of his career, to turn his attention wholly to that species of 
composition which has rendered his name immortal, and which, 
so long as there are ears to hear, hearts to feel, and minds to 
understand, must ever cause him to be regarded as among the 
most honoured of the world's heroes. 

I do not wish to enter into any detailed criticism of the 
performance ; that has been done by many abler pens than 
mine. I cannot, however, refrain from expressing admiration 
of the tempiy which Sir Michael Costa adopted throughout, 
especially in the more stately choruses, thereby obtaining dis- 

D 



50 A week's music in LONDON 

tinctness of utterance and dignity of time, both combining to 
produce a great improvement on former readings, and an effect 
at once imposing and sublime. The delivery of the "Amen" 
Chorus was something to be remembered, and the grand 
C natural — so dear to musicians — at the eighth bar from the 
close, came down upon us with the power of thunder in the 
midst of sunshine. During the full swing of some of the 
grandest choruses, especially where there was any bass lead, as 
at the commencement of " He trusted in God" and the " Amen,' 
I noticed, with the aid of my glass, how gloriously happy my 
friend Sam appeared to be in the orchestra, singing with all his 
heart and soul, with a scarlet bound copy of his favourite 
oratorio held well out from his capacious chest and mouth, as 
if the success of the whole performance depended on his own 
individual exertions. Afterwards 1 mentioned this to him, and 
he seemed gratified that I had noticed his energy ; observing, 
in his usual low, big tone, "Well, sir, it was fine, and t'Hallelujah 
I'm bound to remember. We all gave it weft in my neighbour- 
hood, and / showed 'em who was King of kings and Lord of 
lords ! " Sam meant no irreverence— rnot the least bit of it — 
he would scorn such a thought ; but I knew his meaning 
was, that at the sublime reiteration of the passage to the words, 
" King of kings, and Lord of lords," in the Hallelujah Chorus, 
on the successive rising notes of the scale he had thrown into 
his singing every particle of force and energy of which his 
voice and strength were capable. 

By losing no time in returning to my hotel to dress, I was 
enabled to reach St. James's Hall just before half-past eight, in 
good time, therefore, to hear the first notes of Dr. Arthur 
Sullivan's very clever overture, In Memoriam^ with which the 
Philharmonic Society's ninth concert commenced. The work 
is one of which any composer — foreign or English — might feel 
proud. The ideas are spontaneous and beautiful ; the scoring 
and workmanship, masterly. The splendid orchestra of eighty 
performers came out in fine form, under the direction of their 
most able and conscientious conductor, Mr. Cusins. Then 
followed what has been justly called '^a noble masterpiece, 
perhaps the grandest of its class " — Beethoven's Concerto in 
D, for violin, with orchestra (Op. 6i). Mr. Leopold Auer, 
whom I heard play some years ago, was the violinist, and 
superbly did he render every part of the work, with a beauty 
of tone and poetic feeling and power of the highest order. 
How I revelled in this mighty work of art ! Here, as in the 
subsequent Sinfonia Pastorale, the magician Beethoven unveils 



DURING THE HANDEL FESTIVAL, 1 877. 



51 



to US his divine thoughts and aspirations. If, as has been said, 
the master's works are a translation of his sentiments and 
emotions, we may safely delight ourselves with the assurance 
that he must have been gloriously happy in the conception and 
production of such genial strains as these : — 



' m ^i^m4i¥d 






The concerto over, Mdme. Lemmcns-Sherrington sang, like a 
true artiste, Mozart's lovely aria^ "Padre, germani, addio! " from 
his favourite opera, Idomeneo. The orchestral colouring in this 
piece is remarkable for its dramatic fitness to the words 
and the situation, and exhibits its gifted composer in one of 
his best moods. 

Another instrumental treat at this concert was the pianoforte 
playing of my old friend, Alfred Jaell, who is a genuine artiste 
in the highest sense of the term. On this occasion the favourite 
Parisian pianist chose for his piece de thistance Mendelssohn's 
Concerto in G minor, with orchestra (Op. 25) ; a great work, 
indeed, and thoroughly characteristic of its composer's individ- 
uality, especially in the andante and fi^iale. One cannot, 
however, avoid a thought that the following passage — the second 
subject in the first movement — is rather like Beethoven : — 




£gr i 



But who is there among musicians unacquainted with the 
exquisite beauty and originality of the melody (the sole one, 



52 



A week's music in LONDON 



by the way) of the andante^ and the novel way in which it is 
introduced, after a startling interruption of the expected close 
of the first movement ? 




' ' r 

Then comes the glorious finale^ with its brightness, brilliancy, 
and power, so entirely Mendelssohnian : 

Allegro. 




Jaeirs performance of the whole work, first played at a 
Philharmonic conceit by the composer himself fifty-five years 
ago, was in every respect worthy of the composition. 

This fine concert was brought to a close with a spirited 
rendering of Weber's poetic overture, TAe Ruler of the Spirits, 

The next day (Tuesday) I paid a morning visit to the Royal 
Academy, and to the new Grosvenor Gallery, in Bond Street, 
in both of which the sister art of painting afforded me great 
delight. As taste cannot be too much or too carefully cultivated, 
the real artist, whether painter, poet, or musician, will always 
evolve happy and refining thoughts from the contemplation of 
the sister arts. For my own part, I never look on a beautiful 
picture, or read a fine poem, without experiencing a correspond- 
ing musical thought ; and it is, doubtless, similar with the poet 
or painter when listening to lovely music. All real art is 
suggestive of good ; but, unfortunately, the musician in this 
country is constantly surrounded with the vulgar, the false, 
and the debasing ; he must make money, he panders to bad 
taste, and seeks popularity. I speak more particularly of 
composition ; for, as teachers and performers, our musicians 
cannot always be their own masters ; the public, the uneducated 
mass of the people, but too often demand quantity, not quality, 



DURING THE HANDEL FESTIVAL, 1 877. 53 

and will only dip their hands into their pockets to have their 
ears tickled by the light and the meretricious, rather than be 
elevated by the great and the good. Popularity, as in the case 
of Offenbach, invariably accompanies the lower styles of art ; 
and the enormous pecuniary success which has attended that 
composer's light productions has had the mischievous tendency 
of influencing many talented writers to endeavour to please 
the unlearned multitude rather than the discerning few. 

From the picture galleries, I wended my way again to St. 
James's Hall, where I enjoy another feast of music at the Musical 
Union, an institution which for thirty-three seasons has, under the 
direction of the venerable and indefatigable Professor Ella, con- 
tributed not a little to the advancement of refined taste in 
music, by the introduction of chamber compositions of the 
highest order, played by artistes of unexceptional prowess. 

The programme was one calculated to gratify the most 
fastidious critic, and included Beethoven's Grand Quartet in F 
minor (No. ii), Op. 95. The leading executants were those I 
had heard at the Philharmonic the previous evening — Auer 
and Jaell, assisted by Hollander, Waefelghem, and Lassere. 
Beethoven's very difficult Quartet was played by these gifted 
artistes with thrilling effect ; perfect in time, tune, tone, phrasing, 
and expression, one had but to sit enraptured and drink deeply 
of the musical draught which the magic skill of Beethoven had 
prepared for us. Another treat was the Grand Trio, in B flat, 
Op. 99, for pianoforte, violin, and violoncello ; the executants 
being Jaell, Auer, and Lassere. No one can doubt Schubert's 
genius and power, his inventive faculty, and his wild enthusiasm. 
But he always seems to me to lack design and structure in 
his compositions, and thus comes short of the great masters. 
No doubt the poetic teniperament has naturally something in 
it of vagabond, and when left to itself, as Washington Irving 
puts it, " runs loosely and wildly, and delights in everything 
eccentric and licentious." But there is a never-ceasing flow of 
melody in this trio, which, as a matter of course, would com- 
pensate for any amount of lack of scholarship. No such excuse 
is required in this instance ; the highest admiration is excited, 
though not to be expressed, perhaps, in the enthusiastic 
admiration of Schuman, who says of it : " One glance at this 
trio, and all the misere of life vanishes — the world is once more 
fresh and green." 

The sweet and plaintive imaginings of Mozart are now heard 
in the celebrated Quartet in D, No. 7. There is no straining 
after novel and sensational effects here. The composer is natural 



54 



A week's music in LONDON 



and unaffected, simple as a child, and yet learned as a philosopher. 
This is the lovely strain with which he begins the Quartet in D : 



m 



Allegretio. 



P 



il 



^ 



jS. 



i==f 



532: 




No less beautiful are the other portions of the work, and 
particularly fresh and invigorating are the themes and the 
treatment of the Minuetto and Trio : — 



Minuetto. 




\ 



i 



/^ 



i 



Jaell and Auer both gave solos on their respective instruments, 
the pianoforte and violin, and both were recalled, as they deserved, 
by the enthusiastic director and his aristocratic audience. 

On the evening of the same day, I participated in the pleasures 
of a. conversazione^ given by the Council of the College of 
Organists, in Queen Square, Bloomsbury. A goodly number of 
organists had assembled, and a very pleasant evening ensued. 
First we were treated to a- selection of music, performed by Mrs. 
Limpus (widow of the former secretary and founder of the 
institution). Miss Anna Williams, Miss Annie Butterworth, Mr. 
Stedman, Mr. Otto Booth, Mr. Alexander Cooper, and Mr. E. H. 
Turpin. Some of Klengel's little-known canons and fugues for 
the pianoforte were items of great interest, especially as played 
by Mr. Cooper. No less interesting, perhaps, were several 
original scores by Samuel Wesley, notably the mass he composed 
and dedicated to the Pope, and an oratorio, Rutk, written when 
he was only nine years of age. There was also one of those 



DURING THE HANDEL FESTIVAL, 1 877. 



55 



astonishing mathematical instruments, the harmonograph, for 
drawing harmonic vibrations ; and many curious examples were 
obtained by its use. The autograph letters and photographs of 
several famous organists, etc., were scanned with great curiosity. 
After partaking of some innocuous refreshments, my friend and 
myself took our leave of the genial organists, and thus closed 
my fifth musical day in London. 

Of the " Selection ^^ day at the Handel Festival on Wednes- 
day, the 27th, I need not say much, the principal part of the 
programme having been really performed on the previous Friday, 
the "Rehearsal" day. There was an immense gathering ; twenty 
thousand three hundred and forty- three persons, all listening 
attentively and reverently to the divine works of the giant 
Handel ; albeit, a large number of these had heard most of the 
pieces over and over again. That there was some potent attrac- 
tion no one can doubt. Was it Mdme. Adelina Patti, the music 
itself, the four thousand performers, the other principal singers. 
Sir Michael Costa, the expected gay and glittering crowd, or 
the monstre drum? 

Each and all, no doubt, possessed magnetic influence, and 
helped to draw together the largest audience of the Festival. 

As on the previous day, the choral portions carried off the 
honour; the band came second, and the soloists last. This is 
reversing the usual order of things, at least, in the effects on 
an audience. There are some fine passages in the air and 
chorus, " The trumpet's loud clangor," from the Ode to St, 
Cecilia* s Day^ and there are also some exceptional ones. Take 
for instance the following : — 



^^ 



-tf ^ ig=^ 



The 






dou - ble, dou - ble, dou - ble, beat of 

A 



*=|i: 



^^ 



m 



the thun - d*ring drum, of 



the thun - d'rinG; drum. 



Once again, " The King shall rejoice," the finest of the four 
anthems written for the coronation of George the Second and 
Queen Anne, delighted us v/ith its melodious power and 
structural beauty. The fine fugue in B minor, on two themes, 
to the words ** Thou hast prevented him," was given with 
concentual strength and broad effect. No less imposing, and 
better sung than on the rehearsal day, was the grand chorus 



:;6 



A week's music in LONDON 



in Samson^ ** Let their celestial concerts all unite," in which 
there is, near the end (as in the case of the " Amen " chorus), 
a C natural — an unprepared minor seventh, startling in its 
simple grandeur : — 



/ ^ 




in 



end-less blaze . . of light, . . in end - less blaze of light. 



m 



Sft- 



t 



^^ 



M: 



i 



P 



A friend of mine was informed by a gentleman who sat next 
to him, and who was " reporting," he said, ** for a magazine," 
that " this phrase was an especial instance of Handel's know- 
ledge and use of diminished sevenths ! " I hope we may all see 
that magazine, and let .us pray that it may not turn out to be 
filled with powder or dynamite, though in any case it will 
probably possess the power of spontaneous combustion. 

The choral selection was finished with " See the conqu'ring 
hero comes," in which the roll of the drums and the noise of 
sounding brass and tinkling cymbal were sufficiently prominent 
to gratify the most warlike taste. 

Of the pieces played by the band, solusy the most effective by 
far were the unpretending marches, in which there exists a 
broad, stately, square-cut melody and harmony, astonishing 
in power and result. 

The Organ Concerto in B flat, with its measured, diatonic, 
majestic chords and progressions at the commencement, came 
out better on its second performance, an especial improvement 
having been made in the tuttt by leaving them to the band, 
without the admixture of organ tone, that wouldn't mix at all. 

I have already expressed my humble opinion on the solo 
singing at the Handel Festival, which* would be almost as 
effective on a moor ; so I will say no more at present on the 
only matter really disappointing to me during the whole of the 
festival performances. This much for the "Selection" day. 

The weather being lovely, I accepted the kind invitation 
of the munificent donor of ten thousand guineas towards the 
restoration of Sheffield Parish Church, and its amiable chaplain, 
who is a Reverend Mus. Bac, to accompany them in their 
open carriage from the Crystal Palace to Eaton Square, where 
we arrived at half-past seven, having had a charming drive and 



DURING THE HANDEL FESTIVAL, 1 877. 57 

a very animated discussion on the character of the music we 
had been just hearing, and on the appositeness of Handel's 
works to the taste and character of the British people. 

After a most recherche dinner, served with that quiet respect 
and care peculiar to the tables and homes of old English 
families, we joined the ladies in the magnificent drawing-room, 
where, with the aid of one of Broadwood's newest and most 
brilliant pianofortes, we all contributed towards one of the 
pleasantest musical evenings I have ever enjoyed. Our hostess 
having been personally acquainted with nearly all the celebrated 
musical artistes of her time, both English and foreign, her 
reminiscences of these, told to us with infinite grace and charm, 
was truly something to remember with pleasure. The chaplain, 
too, had many a good tale of music and musicians, to all of 
which we listened with much interest and satisfaction. 

The greater part of the next day (Thursday) was devoted 
to an examination of the well-known organ manufactory of 
Messrs. T. Lewis and Co., situated at Shepherd's Lane, Brixton. 
In company with my friend, Mr. Henry Smart, and a dis- 
tinguished amateur organist, we first made a careful inspection 
of all the inside and mechanical work of the large organ now 
being built for the new Music Hall, Glasgow, from the designs 
and specification of Mr. Smart and Mr. Best. 

More satisfactory work I have never seen in any organ ; 
and, so far as I could judge, the raw material is of the very 
highest quality. It is not yet playable, so that I can offer no 
opinion on its quality of tone — the main point ; but from what 
I saw of the pipes, the purity of the metal, their weight, the 
finish of the wood pipes, the voicing, etc., coupled with a good 
knowledge of other organs by Messrs. Lewis and Co., I cannot 
doubt but that, when finished and erected, Glasgow will possess 
one of the finest organs in Great Britain. 

In the afternoon we inspected a recently built organ by the 
same firm in the fine church of St. Mary's, Newington. It 
has three manuals and about forty stops, including a most 
telling pedal organ. The flue work has a grandeur and purity 
of tone not often met with, especially in the great organ ; the 
lighter stops, such as the salicional, salicet, vox angelica, and 
gedacts, are exquisitely voiced, and the reeds, with the exception 
of the clarinet, which 1 do not like, are smooth and even. The 
touch, general workmanship, and, indeed, the whole of the 
mechanism cannot be surpassed, thus enabling the performer 
to play in great comfort, with no fear of stickings, cypherings, 
buttons falling, and a hundred other evils and miseries to which 



58 A week's music in LONDON 

organists are but too often subjected in the use of a badly 
constructed and ill-made instrument. 

Mr. Smart and myself having had one of those long, quiet, 
alternate playing and listening days, so well known and enjoyed 
by enthusiastic lovers of organs and organ music, took sweet 
counsel together and asked that important question with all 
true Britons in good health : " Where shall we dine ? " Having 
decided in favour of Gravesend, we wired the once famous 
tenor singer, Charles Lockey, now mine host of the New Falcon 
— " Please order dinner for three at half-past six ; leave it to 
your I am thus particular to give the exact telegram, because 
the last four words, " leave it to you," produced a result I can 
never forget, and if repeated, it will become indispensable that I 
should previously arrange all my worldly affairs, and be well 
prepared for a total physical collapse ! It is generally considered 
stupid and commonplace to order a dinner in this way and 
leave it to the manager, as a fish dinner provided by the house 
is always excessive, if not in price, at least in the incredible and 
wearying number of dishes. But, in this case, there were no 
mediocre concoctions, but a succession of good things which 
are better " down the river " than anywhere else. 

After a delicious vegetable soup, there followed a souchel of 
flounders, turbot, salmon, stewed eels, smelts, whiting pudding, 
curried shrimps, and then, the chief object of the dinner, 
whitebait, plain and devilled, the latter slightly. Whitebait, 
sodden and stale, as but too often presented to you in town, 
are very different from the fresh, genuine article served, as in 
this instance, near their native home. ** Quantum sufficit]' I 
cried. But our genial host appeared and assured us that we 
had " left it to him,*' he must be permitted to work out his carte 
blanche. And so we pulled ourselves together, and proceeded, 
but very gently, with sweetbreads, cutlets and tomatoes, ducks 
and green peas, orange fritters, devilled haddock, Italian cheese. 
Rose water (which we did not drink, as a Town Councillor once 
did at a public dinner), coffee, avec petit verre de cognac. Of 
course, with all this there were the usual wines, which, in this 
instance, were of the choicest description. And then we have a 
pleasant chat with the original singer of the tenor music in 
Elijahy our host, Mr. Lockey, who shows us, among his thousand 
other curiosities, some original letters of Mendelssohn to him, 
written after the first performance of the world-renowned 
oratorio at the Birmingham Festival, in 1847. Still more inter- 
esting was the original music of a recitative which Mendelssohn 
had hastily written at the same festival to supply a lost one in 



DURING THE HANDEL FESTIVAL, 1877. 59 

an oratorio by Handel, and which Mr. Lockey sang. After a 
little conversation with Mrs. Lockey, n^e Martha Williams, in 
her boudoir, the charming contralto (the Mdme. Patey of her 
day), we took our way to town, and soon found ourselves once 
more in the midst of the incessant noise of the great metropolis. 

With Friday, June 29th, came the last day of the Handel 
Festival, to which I had been looking forward with impatience ; 
for was not this work chosen as a climax to these performances 
— the sublime Israel in Egypt? It was listened to by 19,000 
persons ; and never do I remember having heard this glorious 
oratorio performed with so much power and legitimate effect 
as on this occasion. The blemishes were so slight that they 
ought not to be alluded to. The difficulties of the work were 
overcome with ease by the three or four thousand singers, who 
had been divided into two grand choirs, and whose individual, 
as well as united endeavours, produced the most gratifying 
and satisfying performance. From the beginning of the 
expressive chorus, " And the children of Israel sighed," to the 
song of Miriam, " I will sing unto the Lord," with its continued 
iteration of Divine glory and judgment, there was an enchanting 
succession of musical triumphs, never to be obliterated from the 
hearths tablet of a grateful listener. " He spake the word " came 
out from the army of basses in a unisonous tone of sustained 
thunder ; indeed, the choral power was so overwhelming as to 
swamp entirely sometimes the rapid demi-semiquaver accom- 
paniments of the violins, etc. The effect of the " Hailstone 
Chorus " was really overwhelming ; and here, again, the giant- 
like roll of the basses, and the crashes of chords on the words, 
*'fire," "hail," etc., electrified the audience, who insisted upon its 
repetition. Then that wonderful instance of word-painting, *' He 
sent a thick darkness," with its sustained chords by the strings 
and its chromatic progressions for the voices, could only be 
equalled for its fine execution by the supreme excellence of 
" He smote all the firstborn of Egypt " and " He led them forth 
like sheep," the softly-sustained G's and D's in the latter, so 
delicate and pastoral, being worthy of refined solo singing. But 
I refrain from saying more, lest my enthusiasm for this noble 
work by Handel — for it is his as it stands, whatever hypercritics 
may say of the source of some of his themes — should lead me to 
weary the reader with any long-drawn out disquisition or critical 
analysis. 

The whole work left a deep impression upon my mind, and I 
recall it only to regret that one cannot oftener participate in the 
musical glory of such a magnificent performance. " God save 



6o A week's music in LONDON. 

the Queen " having been given with overwhelming effect, loud 
and well-deserved cheers arose for Sir Michael Costa,^ who 
returned to the orchestra to acknowledge the compliment, which 
had been so heartily and spontaneously accorded to him. 

Mr. Willing was an efficient organist, and M. Sainton, as 
chef-cTattaque, rendered good service throughout the Festival ; 
and, with the tender of my best thanks for the kind attention 
of Mr. Gardiner and the stewards of the Sacred Harmonic 
Society, I take my leave of the recent Handel Festival, and the 
pleasant week's enjoyment it brought in its train, with grateful 
remembrance, and a hope that we may be spared to participate 
in many more similar gatherings, and with the same gratifying 
result. 



Leeds, August^ ^Syy. 



TURNING THE HANDLE FOR A WEEK: 

ANOTHER AND A DIFFERENT HANDEL 

FESTIVAL. 



Reprinted from the * * Musical World, 



t> 



Sir, — I am a plain, straightforward, English musician, and I 
should like to see a little more honest criticism, a little more 
truth spoken, and a little more endeavour to inform uninformed 
people how matters really stand as regards music in the 
metropolis. I don*t reside in London now, but I know sufficient 
of metropolitan concert-givers, artistes, as they call themselves 
now-a-days, and a good many of the ins and outs of musical 
life in London. But still I find myself ignorant on many 
matters, and am anxious to be informed thereon, but it is 
difficult to get the information I require. I propose, therefore, 
to ask a few questions, and to give a few impressions of my 
own, whilst up for a week with some music-loving people 
turning the handle for a week. I had not quite made up my 
mind before the full rehearsal took place on Friday, the i6th 
June, whether I should disport myself at the Crystal Palace, 
to listen to the 4,500 struggling in that huge space, to fill it 
with the sounds of Handel's music; but after reading the 
glowing accounts of the reporters in Saturday's papers about 
the wonderful improvement in the "acoustical properties" of the 
huge concert hall, and a few other equally interesting and useful 
statements, I felt no further hesitation, but packed my portman- 
teau, looked to my cigar-case, etc., and like a good Christian 
musician, determined to "do" the Messiah, at least, on the first 
day of the Festival. Now this was a strange beginning, 
knowing, as I do, that I must have heard the Messiah " done," 
in one way or another, during my lifetime, almost as many 
times as there were performers round about the great Handel 
organ. You will please pardon my entering into any general 
criticism on the merits of the Messiah, or its performance, 
having some faint recollection that it has been done before 



62 TURNING THE HANDLE FOR A WEEK. 

a few times ; still there was a good deal of difference in this 
Crystal Palace performance by the 4,500 to what I had 
previously heard. And why may I not state the points of 
difference? First, let me say that through the courtesy of 
Mr. Grove, the prince of secretaries and musical dilettani, I 
was favoured with that little bit of yellow pasteboard, with 
''Pass everywhere" thereon, enabling me to choose my own 
position, and to examine for myself the best spot for hearing 
the performance. I was not quite half-a-mile off during Mr. 
Vernon Rigby's delivery oi "Comfort ye" and "Ev'ry valley;" 
but, though comfortably seated in what was considered one of 
the best places, and the " rising tenor " inflated himself to the 
utmost, and sang with the full powers of his voice, I came to 
the conclusion at once, and have not since altered my conviction, 
that solos in that vast building could be heard very nearly as 
well as they could be on Hampstead Heath or Salisbury Plain. 
But then, does not every musical reporter in both daily and 
weekly musical papers affirm the contrary, and endeavour to 
make me believe that I have been entirely mistaken, and have 
not heard with tkeir ears, or judged with their judgment. 
Certainly, the penetrating voices of Titiens and Sherrington 
came more gratefully and distinctly upon the ear, but very 
little else in the way of solos was acceptable, at least to me. 
The simple unison passage in the first chorus, " For the mouth 
of the Lord hath spoken it," and similar places, seemed to 
me to be the only choral portions of the oratorio which were 
sung well together, and produced a grand and overwhelming 
effect. But even here the effect would have been heightened 
had the ponderous organ had all its stoppers pulled out, and 
added its majestic tones to those of the 4,500 ; but no, it was 
ordained by some master-mind (not Handel's) that the organ 
should be entirely silent until the oratorio had arrived at the 
chorus, " For unto us a child is born," where, at the familiar 
" Wonderful," etc., we had as full a dose of the organic element 
as could be desired. And here, Mr. Editor, let me ask you my 
first question. Do you approve of the introduction into the 
score of the Messiah of gigantic drums, piping fifes and piccolos, 
clashing cymbals and the doubling of clarionets, oboes, bassoons, 
etc.? Perhaps you do, for the sake, as I was told, of keeping 
the multitudinous forces together, and obtaining intensity and 
fulness of tone, etc. However, after the first part of the per- 
formance was ended, and both audience and orchestra very 
properly adjourned, as in the Tichborne case, for half-an-hour's 
rest and refreshment, I found myself somehow or other in a 



TURNING THE HANDLE FOR A WEEK. 63 

snug corner in the gardens outside the buildings, enjoying the 
fragrant weed, . and reflecting upon the music I had heard, and 
wondering what old Handel himself would have said, had that 
portly and well-conditioned gentleman been present and heard 
his undying strains performed, not to a "beggarly account of 
empty benches," but to an audience of over twenty thousand 
people. Starting up from my reverie, I remembered a promise 
I had made to myself to attend in the evening the seventh 
concert of the Philharmonic Society, whereat the famous 
Arabella Goddard was to render (they "render" a piece 
now-a-days which used to be " played") Sterndale Bennett's 
glorious concerto in F minor. But of this and the rest of my 
exhausting labours during the week let me speak in my next. 

June 2gth^ 187 1. 



SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 



No. I. — The Parish Church. 

The fame of the choral services in our own Parish Church of 
St. Peter is not confined to Yorkshire. Ever since the days of 
the dear old vicar, Dr. Hook, the elaborate musical services 
inaugurated by him have been pointed to as models, not only in 
England, but wherever the English Church has planted her foot. 
It is true that at first the attempt was not quite successful, but 
when Dr. Samuel Sebastian Wesley was, in 1840, induced to 
leave his appointment in Exeter Cathedral for a similar oflSce at 
the Leeds Parish Church, at a salary of ;£200 per annum 
(guaranteed for ten years), matters were soon changed ; for not 
only was Wesley then in his prime (about 35 years of age), but 
he had already attained to the highest fame as an organist, 
composer, and choir master. It is therefore not to be wondered 
at that under his regime and direction the services speedily 
attained to a comparatively high state of perfection, although it 
may be admitted that the occasional eccentricities of the Doctor 
militated, now and then, against the perfect rendering of the 
music so much desired by the vicar and his devoted curates. 
Organists, and lovers of music generally, flocked from all parts 
to hear the services, and also to listen to Dr. Wesley's beautiful 
organ-playing; and indeed this latter was a treat of no ordinary 
character, when the Doctor was in form. It must, however, be 
borne in mind that, notwithstanding the genius of Dr. Wesley, 
he laboured under the disadvantage of playing upon an instru- 
ment greatly inferior to that which is now under the control 
of the present organist, Dr. Creser. 

Not only were Wesley's extemporaneous fugues and 
voluntaries marvellous creations of power and genius as music, 
but his registration of the stops, fine organ touch, and great 
execution, as well as his regulation and variety of organ tone, 
produced on the minds of those who had the pleasure to listen 
to him both astonishment and delight. These were indeed 
happy and improving times to those who, like myself, had the 
privilege and advantage of listening and being with this great 



THE PARISH CHURCH. 6$ 

master of music constantly. On Dr. Wesley's appointment to 
Winchester, in 1847, he was succeeded by Mr. R. S. Burton, who 
for over 30 years kept up the choir in a state of efficiency, 
and played the organ with brilliancy and effect. During his 
time the services and anthems were carried out on the same 
principles as in Dr. Wesley's days, but his hands were greatly 
strengthened, and his organ resources increased by the addition 
of a splendid new swell to the organ, built by Messrs. Hill 
and Son, of London, and also some valuable new stops in the 
other parts of the instrument by the celebrated German builder, 
Herr Schulze. 

In 1880 Mr. Burton resigned his appointment, and was 
succeeded by the present organist, Dr. Wm. Creser, who was 
promoted from St. Martin's, Scarborough, where he had been 
engaged in directing a service chiefly of a Gregorian character. 
The desire of the present esteemed Vicar, Dr. Gott, that the 
services of the church should be maintained at a high point of 
excellence has been most ably seconded by his accomplished 
precentor, the Rev. N. Egerton Leigh, who has, in conjunction 
with the organist, secured some of the finest voices and ablest 
singers in Yorkshire to swell the " Hymn of Praise " in that 
noble sanctuary, wherein the services are equal to most, and 
scarcely surpassed by any, of the cathedral choirs in the United 
Kingdom. What a boon and a privilege this should be to the 
inhabitants of a great commercial town like Leeds, with its 
large population and assumed musical proclivities ! The choir 
at present consists of about 50 voices — 30 boy trebles, and 20 
men singers, nearly all of whom possess fine-toned voices which 
blend together in producing the sweetest harmony. The two 
leading boys, Messrs. Whatmore and Peacock, are unfortunately 
nearly at the end of their choristership, but there are so many 
other youthful and clever aspirants to choir fame, that no doubt 
their places will be readily filled. Many of the altos possess 
lovely voices, amongst whom are Messrs. Barrass, Wilson, 
C. Wright, and Fawcett ; the tenors have at their head that 
admirable vocalist, Mr. C. Blagbro, who is well supported by 
Messrs. Nunns, Robinson, and Pansire ; and the basses (as they 
always are in Yorkshire) are full and resonant in tone, including 
the names of Messrs. Browning, Morton, France, Atha, etc. 

It was my pleasure and privilege to attend the service on 
Trinity Sunday, and, taken altogether, rarely have I heard one 
more beautifully and devotionally rendered. . There was no 
processional hymn, the organist playing, whilst the clergy and 
choir took their places, a soft voluntary by Archer. The 

E 



66 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

confession was monotoned throughout, the more modern pretty 
cadences, which were permitted to be sung for some years, being 
now, happily, excluded. The whole of the versicles, etc., were the 
beautiful and time-honoured work of Tallis. The Venite was 
sung to a single chant by Nares, and the Psalms for the day to a 
double chant in A minor and major by Battishill. I very much 
doubt if the major adaptation of this chant was written by 
Battishill, any more than was the chord of the six-four 
preceding the tonic at the end of the second phrase. A fine 
effect has always been obtained at the Parish Church by the 
basses alone giving out, in impressive unison, the first half of the 
chant, the second half being followed by the full choir. It 
might, perhaps, have been an improvement if there had been a 
little more variety of expression and power in the chanting of the 
Psalms, in every verse of which there lies a " point to seize," and 
the perception of this point will give a feeling in the rendition 
which will be taken as coming from the heart, although, in fact, 
it may be only from the lips. The choir, 1 venture to think, 
stand as precentors to the congregation, and their delivery of 
the poetry of the Psalms will govern the delivery of the 
congregation. Every syllable should be distinctly uttered — no 
gabble, no hurry. It would be as well that every church choir 
should have a master in this phonic science, in order that the 
Psalms shall be chanted in rythmical rule — every verse, in fact, 
marked out as to its harmonious form in language. I need not 
say how gratifying it was to me to hear the service of my life- 
long friend, the late Henry Smart, sung with such power and 
expression. Of this work I may perhaps be permitted to repeat, 
what I have said elsewhere, that it is agreed by the most 
eminent church musicians there is nothing more complete or 
beautiful of its class in the whole range of music, and nothing, 
indeed, can be more plain or straightforward, and at the same 
time more appropriate to the words of the grand Ambrosian 
hymn than the opening phrases, " We praise Thee, O God ; we 
acknowledge Thee to be the Lord." For dignity, power, and a 
grand conception of the text we must go on to that part of the 
Te Deum commencing, " When Thou tookest upon Thee to 
deliver man." The manner in which this sublime passage is 
built up, rising chord upon chord with rich and flowing music, 
seems as if it would never stop until it reached the gates of 
heaven itself. It would, I think, be an improvement, of which 
the composer himself approved, if the closing phrase of this 
sublime Te Deum were sung slower and very piano^ instead of in 
strict and unrelenting time. Smart's Te Deum is a pattern in 



THE PARISH CHURCH. 67 

plan and execution. It has served to create an emulative 
feeling, to open new fountains, and to justify and encourage 
freedom in form, and a strong exhibition of individual spirit. 
The Creed of St. Athanasius was sung to Tallis's old two- note 
chant, consisting of C and B only in the melody, and this 
becomes somewhat monotonous unless a great power of tone 
and expression be given to certain passages of the text, 
especially at the words, " but One God," etc., which is greatly 
enhanced by a slow and deliberate accentuation. The " Introit" 
(which formerly was an antiphone sung while the priest 
proceeded to the altar to celebrate Mass), was, " How 
lovely are the messengers," from Mendelssohn's SL Paul^ 
and the "Anthem," an extract from Spohr's Last Judgment^ 
" And lo ! a throne," etc. Both of these were sung with 
good taste, and in the latter the beautiful voice of 
Mr. Blagbro was heard to great advantage in the solos. It 
would, perhaps, have been more satisfactory if one of the 
anthems had been by an English composer, and surely there 
could have been no difficulty in finding such a work. The only 
hymn sung was, " Holy, Holy, Holy," to Dykes's well-known 
tune Trinity^ in which the congregation joined with great 
devotional fervour. The Post Communion Service was Tours in 
F, and, excellent as it is in its way, I could not help regretting 
that Smart's magnificent setting was not taken so as to have 
continued his services throughout the day. The whole of this 
important part of the service, especially the unaccompanied 
responses and hymn, exhibited in the highest degree the 
efficiency of the choir. It has been truly said that the high 
choir service of our Church was made out of the office of 
Morning Prayer. The Communion office or Mass is, of course, 
the high musical service in the Latin Church ; but our English 
Communion office, until within these few years, was a sober, 
secret, and almost somniferous celebration, without choir, and 
almost without communicants. And so it is now in too many 
of our local churches. But more of this hereafter. 

The service was concluded with what is known as Stainer's 
"Amen," introduced first in St. Paul's Cathedral, for which it was 
specially written. It contains some fine harmonical progressions, 
and is undoubtedly very cleverly put together, but there are two 
bars therein so very much like one of Palestrina's celebrated 
works as would almost cause me to mistake one for the other. 
During the departure of the congregation. Dr. Creser played an 
expressive little voluntary on the sweet stops of the echo and 
choir organs, which were, I believe, voiced by Schulze himself 



68 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

On Special occasions — Christmastide and Lent — oratorios are 
given in the Parish Church with increased musical resources, 
and greatly, I am persuaded, to the religious edification of those 
who attend them. Listening to an oratorio or an anthem is no 
direct act of worship, whether in or out of a church, nor is 
listening to a sermon ; but the hearing of an oratorio is, with 
that of hearing a sermon, a religious act, and commonly a much 
more profitable and instructive employment of time. 

I will conclude this notice by observing that all church music 
should be of so exalted a character as will delight the genuine 
composer, exhilarate the organist and singers, and stimulate 
each and all to exert their utmost abilities for the attainment of 
a musical service as faultless as possible. 



No. 2. — All Souls' (Hook Memorial) Church. 

It is somewhat singular that in describing the musical services 
at the premier church in Leeds, so intimately connected with 
the name of the esteemed vicar, Dr. Hook, I should in this, the 
following notice, have chiefly to refer to his son, who is in- 
disputably the moving spirit in, and the active cause of, the 
beautiful choral service at All Souls', or the Hook Memorial 
Church. It was indeed a happy thought on the part of some 
one to suggest the erection of a sacred edifice in Leeds to the 
memory of him who had done so much to awaken church feeling 
and church work in Leeds, and to perpetuate his name not only 
by the building of a splendid edifice, designed by the greatest 
ecclesiastical architect of the age — Sir Gilbert Scott, a personal 
friend of Dr. Hook's — but to place his son, the Reverend Cecil 
Hook, as the first vicar of the new parish. " Do not give unto 
God that which costs you nothing," Dr. Hook used to plead in 
some of his eloquent sermons, and so thought and acted those 
benevolent persons who nobly contributed to raise that beautiful 
building wherein there is a daily sacrifice of praise and thanks- 
giving in the manner of our great cathedrals and richly endowed 
churches. Over twenty thousand pounds has already been spent 
on this fine specimen of Early English architecture, and when 
the carving of the nave capitals, the erection of the grand 
tower at the north-west angle, and other work yet to be done, 
has been accomplished — and it assuredly will be — the Hook 
Memorial Church will stand out as one of the finest of the many 



ALL souls' (hook MEMORIAL) CHURCH. 69 

new and grand ecclesiastical buildings Yorkshire possesses. 
The handsome stained glass in the east, the south chancel, 
the west, and four clerestory windows, all add greatly to 
produce that " dim religious light " which, coupled with the noble 
proportions of the building, the carved choir stalls, the fine 
organ, the earnest, devotional demeanour of the choristers, and 
the overflowing congregations, combine to produce a truly 
religious effect on the minds of all sincere and devout wor- 
shippers. The Sunday services are choral throughout. In the 
choir there are thirty boys (exclusive of probationers), four altos, 
six tenors, and seven basses, making a total of forty^seven 
efficient singers. These are all under the instruction and direc- 
tion of the organist and choirmaster, Mr. Fred W. Hird, an old 
friend for whose talents and accomplishments we all entertain 
much respect and admiration. The regular choir — all voluntary 
— sing at the Sunday morning and evening services, and also on 
Wednesday and Friday evenings, after which there are general 
rehearsals or practices. The choir, who, with some of the elder 
boys, are communicants, attend the Choral Communion on the 
third Sunday in the month, and also at the early celebration on 
the High Festivals of Christmas, Easter, and Whitsuntide, 
certain Saints' Days, and especially on the Festival of the 
Dedication of the Church— All Saints' Day. The devotion of 
the choir to their work is as remarkable as their ability to sing ; 
the members being regular in their attendance, and faithful and 
conscientious in the discharge of their duties. 

But they were trained to it even before the present noble 
•edifice was built. The magic name of " Hook " attracted them 
to the old temporary wooden church, where they used to plunge 
into services and anthems of the most difficult and complicated 
character, sometimes landing themselves " on the other side of 
Jordan," but generally enjoying the satisfaction of singing 
lovingly and well " to the praise and glory of God." 

When Archbishops Tait and Thomson attended the opening 
festival services, they visited this old wooden building, and so 
gratified was the former with the choir that at the request of his 
Grace all the members came severally to him to receive his 
blessing, and finally his benediction. In addition to the regular 
choir, there is another supplementary one, established under the 
•direction of Mr. Thomas Coats, to supply the music at the first 
matins (9.15 a.m.) on Sundays, and at the children's service in 
the afternoons, at 3.15 p.m. 

I regret that on my visit on Sunday morning (St. Peter's Day) 
there was neither Service, Kyrie Eleison, Introit, or Anthem — 



70 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

nothing, indeed, to let me know what the choir usually do, and, 
I am assured, can do, alone ; especially where such anthems are 
sung as Wesley's " The Wilderness," and " O Praise the Lord " ; 
Purcell's " O Give Thanks," Mendelssohn's " Judge me, O God," 
Beethoven's •* Hallelujah to the Father," and extensive excerpts 
from the best oratorios, etc. 

It is the rule, I believe, at All Souls* to sing all the Canticles 
(excepting in Lent, when Best's setting of the Benedicite is given) 
to chants. The plan is no doubt intended to promote congrega- 
tional singing, and to carry out the idea entertained by many 
of the clergy, that the Canticles (in parish churches, at least) 
belong as much to the people as to the choir. And this was 
demonstrated on the occasion of my visit in a most unmistakable 
manner, for the congregation took the matter well into their own 
hands, and joined the choir with fervour and zeal throughout the 
whole of the service. Sometimes the two forces were not well 
together, and the '' start " was not always good and exact ; but 
when once the people got hold they held fast with a tenacity and 
a vigour that would have delighted Mr. Spurgeon himself It 
would perhaps be an improvement occasionally to introduce 
service music to the Canticles, at any rate as regards that mag- 
nificent hymn of St. Ambrosius', Te Deum^ of which such 
splendid settings are to be found in the works of our best 
cathedral composers, in which every verse, every line, yea, and 
almost every word, has its proper and appropriate expression. 
I am persuaded that the most unmusical person in the congre- 
gation, after listening to a setting by Smart or Wesley, would 
neither suffer from langour or tedium. 

The chants used for the Te Deum and Benedictus^ though 
excellent as music, did not, especially the former, exactly 
suit the meaning and expression of the words ; exempli gratia^ 
in the verse, " Thou did'st open the Kingdom of Heaven to all 
believers," and again, " Thou sittest at the right hand of God : 
in the glory of the Father," — surely such words as these should 
not be sung to a mifior, but to a bright major strain. 

The Venite and Psalms for the day (139, 140, and 141) were 
sung to chants by Frost, Turle, and Barnby— of which Turle's 
was by far the best, whilst Barnby's is pretty and rather secular. 
The singing of the Psalms was admirable throughout — time, 
tune, clear enunciation, and considerable expression being alike 
to be admired and commended. The sweet, clear voices of the 
boys, led by Masters Holliday, Umpleby, Dodds, and Heath, 
and the sonorous tones of the basses here came out with telling 
effect, especially in the unison verses, of which I should like to 



ALL souls' (hook MEMORIAL) CHURCH. 7 1 

have heard more. Again, the congregation joined with the 
choir, adding another proof that in such churches as the Hook 
Memorial, people go now to church to worship for themselves, 
and not to listen to a substitute like the old defunct parish clerk. 
When the Psalm says " Come, let us sing," the congregations of 
these days believe in the Psalm, and will not read, nor will they 
permit any substitute to read or sing for them. It is, therefore, 
most important,- as Mr. Hird knows, that the chants should all 
be carefully selected, choosing those which have plain, simple 
melodies and pure, strong chords, which form the chain of 
church harmony, and, above all, avoiding such as have high 
reciting notes, or commencing on the major third above C the 
third space in the treble, and florid phrases. There is one point, 
however, in chanting the Psalms, which I venture to think the 
congregation would do well to observe, and that is to sing 
antiphonally with the choir, instead of joining with both sides, 
decani and cantoris. To accomplish this properly it might 
be desirable that most of the congregation should possess 
Psalters with the sides the choir take marked therein. 

The musical voice of the congregation was heard at its best in 
singing the hymns. There they asserted their right and their 
power, and occasionally with so much vigour that the organist 
had to bring out the full power of his instrument to support the 
united voices of the choir and people. With rare exceptions all 
the hymns are selected from the popular ** Ancient and Modern " 
collection, wherein there is much that is good, and certainly a 
sprinkling of that which is not good. But why take the tunes 
quite so fast ? There is a via media in most things, and such a 
chorale as St. Ann's loses much of its dignity and grandeur 
when sung at the speed it was — especially if wedded to majestic 
words like — 

* * The Son of God goes forth to war. " 

One of the hymns (No. 436, " Gloria ''), good as it is for harmony, 
will, oddly enough, be found by any musical person to contain 
melodic phrases exactly like those in the old English song, " The 
Vicar of Bray.'' 

There was both a Processional and a Recessional Hymn, the 
effect of these with such a large choir, well supported by the 
congregation and organ, being remarkably fine and impressive. 

Many conscientious persons object to these Processional and 
Recessional Hymns, but it must be remembered that it was 
an ancient custom of the Church, and not only so, but is in 
itself an act of praise and worship that gives tone, reverence, 
and solemnity to the beginning and ending of the services. The 



72 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

original use of the cathedral nave was that of preaching to 
the people, and walking up and down therein singing procesr 
sional hymns. Soon after the Reformation the union of walking 
and singing lell into disuse, and as the people did not hear or did 
not relish what they heard, the pulpit was removed into the 
choir, and the nave became a sheepfold, without shepherd 
and without sheep. Thanks to the awakened spirit of the times, 
and to the example set by churches like our Parish Church and 
All Souls', the nave of cathedrals has been restored to its 
original use. The Versicles, Preces, Litany, etc., are sung to 
what is called " Hill's Service " — a modification of the ancient 
Durham Use, introduced into our Parish Church service when Mr. 
James Hill was choir-master, during the first part of Dr. Hook's 
reign ; but they have been discontinued for some time, and 
those by the immortal Tallis, of Queen Elizabeth's time, used 
instead. The former are comparatively weak, mostly in minor 
cadences, and are generally dragged by the choir, who sink in 
pitch considerably, especially in the Litany, which, by the way, 
was admirably intoned by the vicar, the Rev. Cecil Hook, the 
other parts being sung by the preacher, the Rev. B. R. Wilson. 

The organ voluntaries and accompaniments were throughout 
admirably played by Mr. Hird, whose good taste and technique 
were always apparent and acceptable. The March which he 
played at the conclusion of the service, and which he contributed 
some years ago to The Organists Quarterly Journal^ served at 
once to display his ability both as a composer and an 
executant. 

As before stated, the choir is entirely a voluntary one, though 
the boys have good conduct marks and corresponding payments 
— an admirable plan, producing excellent results. 

The one grand point, however, in the success of All Souls', its 
services and its parish work, is the unselfish, enthusiastic devotion 
to their duties of all those connected with the Church, whether 
paid or unpaid. With the choirmen there is an esprit de corps of 
the most gratifying nature, several of its members, notably Mr. 
John Dickson, Mr. Jacob Hudson, Mr. T. Rothery, Mr. A. S. 
Newton, who reads the lessons so well, Mr. J. J. Briggs, Mr. 
Harry Wilson, and many others having expended much time 
and energy from the beginning in assisting to bring the services 
up to their present efficiency and popularity. All honour be to 
such men ! They are pillars and bulwarks of the Church, and 
will assuredly have their reward. Already the congregation has 
cleared off their debt on the organ, and paid no less a sum than 
;^i,500 altogether for the instrument, which deserves, and I hope 



ST. Bartholomew's church, armley. 73 

some day will get, a better case. Of course, much of all this is 
due to the untiring zeal of such enthusiastic churchwardens as 
Mr. G. O. Joy and Mr. J. A. Arnold, who are assisted in their 
labours by the sidesmen — Captain Upton, Messrs. Arthur 
Lawson, Thomas Tennant, Arthur Greenwood, and Messrs. 
Howell and Trenham. The new vicarage and schools will 
cost a large amount, but already a considerable sum has been 
subscribed, and the work is shortly to be commenced on a piece 
of ground, bought for the purpose, on the soutn side of the 
edifice. Like the church of our forefathers. All Souls' is free 
and open — no pews, pew rents, no restrictions, no vested rights. 
To be devout was to show devotion to sermons, and devotion to 
sermons was a strong indication of being one of the elect. The 
elect only had a right to sing ; but the services of the elect were 
of too solemn a character for music, i.e,, good music of a high 
value. How different to this are the services at All Souls ! 
Good music is here put to its proper use, and all whose affection 
and duty is valuable to the Church ; all persons of sober 
and devout feelings ; all who sincerely and anxiously endeavour 
to profit by all means offered by her for promoting their piety 
and devotion, in the several portions of public worship — all 
these will, I feel persuaded, join with one voice and one heart in 
gratitude if by the reformation of the musical accompaniment of 
Divine service, so happily accomplished of late years, they enjoy 
privileges and intellectual happiness that will fit them better for 
the more perfect bliss of the Choir above. 



No. 3. — St. Bartholomew's Church, Armley, 

NEAR Leeds. 

** Come up some Sunday and see our Cathedral," said a justly 
proud Armley man to a Leeds-loiner not long ago, and the 
latter sharply replied — "What do you mean by your Cathedral ? 
You can have nothing there to compare with our Parish Church ; 
but, howsoever, Til come and just have a look in." And he 
went, saw, and was astonished, just as 1 was myself when I first 
viewed that magnificent edifice dedicated to St. Bartholomew — 
standing on an eminence in the village or out-township of 
ancient Armley. 

On Sunday morning, the 6th ult., 1 had the gratification to 
attend the usual half-past ten service in St. Bartholomew's, and 



74 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

arriving at the churchyard soon after ten I had an opportunity 
of observing with what neatness and order the graves and 
flowers are looked after by the surviving friends and relatives of 
the departed. The old church, too, remains, looking like an old 
" Charley Watchman " carefully guarding the new structure 
from harm or wrong. 

How beautiful were the tones of that truly grand organ — how 
sweetly they travelled to my ears from the north transept to the 
furthest corner of the church, where I was seated ! There 
should always, I think, be an introductory voluntary, whether 
there is a processional hymn or not. It has, if properly 
selected, or ably improvised, a calming influence on the mind, 
which prepares, with dulcet music, the humble worshipper for 
his subsequent duties. 

The sounds of the organ die away, the distant "Amen " after 
the choristers' prayer is heard, and the procession of the priests 
and white-robed choir from the vestry to their stalls in the 
chancel, is accompanied with a more joyous strain from the 
organ, which gradually subsides, and the respected vicar, the 
Rev. G. Hume Smith, then commences to intone the sentences, 
preces, etc., in a manner which shows at once that you are 
listening to one who, 

** With practice severe 
And tone loud and clear," 

has attained to the highest point of chanting power, not to be 
wondered at when the Vicar's long connection as Precentor with 
the Leeds Parish Church is remembered. The Versicles and 
responses by Tallis were nicely sung by the choir, with the 
exception of the usual drop in the pitch. The grand old chant 
in C, of whose authorship we know nothing more than that it is 
called " Ancient," was a right one for Venite, Exultemus, and 
with hearty and expressive alternate unison and harmony did 
the choir '' Sing unto the Lord." 

The Psalms (6th day), commencing with the 30th, Exaltabo te, 
Domine (" I will magnify Thee, O Lord ") were sung to the old 
familiar appropriate double chant in E flat, by Robinson (John, 
who was organist at Westminster Abbey in 1762), and another 
by an unknown author. The * Psalms throughout, from Monk 
and Ouseley's Psalter, were chanted admirably — clearness and 
distinctness of enunciation, good intonation, and an exactitude 
of time and ensemble worthy of a cathedral choir. The same 
may be said of the Te Deum, also given to a double chant, 
without any change or variety, and this I think might be 
rectified either by the introduction of specially composed 



ST. Bartholomew's church, armley. 75 

Te Deum chants, or the more easy settings — anthem-wise. A 
fine, solemn effect was obtained by the singing of the verse 
" Holy, Holy, Holy ! " without organ accompaniment, and in 
which the sweet female voices of the choir added greatly to the 
result. The Apostle's Creed, monotoned with varied organ 
accompaniment on A, made the pitch rather too high for the 
subsequent sentences and responses. 

The anthem by Stainer, " Jesus said unto his disciples," sung 
very nicely, though it presented no particular features of power 
or interest, was preceded by a much too long introduction on the 
organ, not reminding one of any particular theme or subject, 
though serving as a medium for showing the good and varied 
qualities in the organ. After an excellent rendition of the 
Litany by the Rev. Percy Stewart (curate) Tours' Communion 
Service in F was taken, and here again the clear voice and 
distinct enunciation of the vicar could be heard in every 
part of the vast building, — thus proving the advantages of 
intoning in all large edifices, where otherwise the ordinary 
mode of reading would be absorbed in echoes and a jumble 
of words. The composer has cleverly varied his Kyrie Eleison 
in D by the introduction of the minor key, at the same 
time preserving something of its original melodic structure. 
The closing phrase to the words, "And write all these Thy 
laws in our hearts — We beseech Thee^'* is extremely devotional 
and impressive. 

The Credo has some fine points, and was sung with appropriate 
taste ^nd spirit ; sometimes, however, the pedal predominated 
too much in the organ accompaniment. Following came the 
sermon by the Vicar, and a more admirable discourse of but 
fifteen minutes* duration I have never heard ; moreover, every 
word was distinctly heard in every corner of the church. The 
Vicar took his text from Psalm ^6^ v. 6 — " Into Thy hands 1 
commend my spirit." During and between the offertory 
sentences the organist played some pleasing strains, notably a 
" Meditation " in F sharp minor by Guilmant, in which the 
accompaniment was scarcely sufficient to support the pungent 
solo on the swell reed. During the singing of one of the hymns 
— in which, by the way, the congregation did not join as 
heartily as might be desirable — another thunderstorm came on, 
and the deep rolling tones of the thirty-two feet pedal pipes 
were mingled with heaven's grand diapasons — " Majestic, loud, 
and strong," the effect of which was singularly sublime and 
impressive. 

There is a growing feeling that great help can be rendered 



76 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

to surpliced choirs by the addition of female voices, especially 
as they are more to be depended upon, as a rule, than boys ; 
and why there should be any objection to this practical aid I 
don't understand, especially as we are reminded by the Psalmist 
of the injunction : — 

** Voung men and maidens^ old men and children, 
Praise ye the Lord." 

Of course there are grumblers and opponents. Some time ago 
the Cardinal Archbishop of Toledo addressed a circular to his 
clergy, absolutely forbidding women to sing in churches, where- 
upon some clever rhymster struck off the following lines : — 



(( 



The Archbishop of Spanish Toledo, 
Now what do you fancy would he do ? 

Why, the ladies, this Cardinal 

Strictly debarred in all 
Churches from singing the Credo. 

Had he only forbidden their talking. 
His wish there'd be nobody baulking ; 

But forbid them to sing ! — 

No ! that isn't the thing ; 
In fact, his behaviour is shawkingy 

The repertoire of the choir is extensive, and the music library 
in which the Vicar takes much intefest, contains anthems and 
other sacred compositions by all the best masters, most of which 
are sung sometime during the year. The efficiency of the choir 
of St. Bartholomew is due in a great degree to the earnest zeal 
and devotion to his work of the able choir-master, Mr. W. 
Pickersgill, whose services at St. George's, and afterwards at the 
Parish Church, helped to bring to his aid an experience at once 
useful and valuable. 

Of the tones of the magnificent organ it is impossible to 
speak too highly, though its mechanism, especially the draw 
stop action, is faulty and noisy — a defect which will have to be 
rectified if that important part of the instrument is to equal the 
other. This beautiful organ, placed on an elevation in a recess 
on the north side of the chancel, was built by the famous Herr 
Schulze, of Panlinzelle, Germany, some years ago, for T. S. 
Kennedy, Esq., of Meanwood, Leeds, from whose special 
habitation it was removed to St. Peter's Church, Harrogate, and 
from thence, in August, 1879, to what I suppose and hope will 
be its final resting-place — the position it now occupies at St 
Bartholomew's Church, Armley. 

I ought to have mentioned that the blowing apparatus for the 
organ consists of a finely-constructed gas engine, of two-horse 




HOLY TRINITY CHURCH. 77 

power, made by Crossley's, of Manchester, which pumps and 
forces the water for working the large hydraulic engine, 
constructed for Mr. Kennedy at the works of Fairbairn, Naylor, 
and Co., Leeds. I cannot conclude this sketch of my visit to this 
magnificent church without congratulating the wardens (Messrs. 
J. H. Wurtzburg and J. D. Hunter) and the inhabitants of 
Armiey generally, on the possession of such glorious privileges 
as this " holy dwelling " must afford them, if rightly used and 
duly appreciated. 



No. 4. — Holy Trinity Church, Leeds. 

When I was a boy and paid my first visit to this interesting 
old church, I was taken there to try the organ by the late Mr. 
Thomas Eagland, who for many years had given his services in 
playing the organ (built, I believe, by Greenwood), and also 
rendered other important aid in promoting and benefiting the 
work of the church generally. He was a good and true man, a 
faithful friend, and a warm supporter of the Arts, especially 
music. Indeed, it was to Councillor Eagland's never-failing 
enthusiasm, as well as his indomitable pluck and perseverance, 
that the people of Leeds are much indebted for the erection of 
the Town Hall organ. As he had been at Trinity, so afterwards 
at the Parish Church he became one of its most useful wardens, 
and one of its best supporters. 

Trinity Church was built in 1730 by the wealthy merchants 
then living around it, almost exclusively for their own use. 
Gradually the population changed, and the original residents 
removed to other parts of the town and district, leaving the old 
dwellings and land to be occupied by a totally different class of 
persons, while the church itself became almost deserted. In 
truth, it is within the memory of those living that plans were 
actually prepared and considered with a view to removing this 
grand old fabric from off the face of the earth. Tout cela 
change ! When the present eloquent and highly-esteemed 
vicar, the Rev. Canon Bullock, was appointed to the living two 
or three years ago, he had to consider how best to make the 
church most useful. He commenced his good work by 
establishing popular mid-day services for busy people on Fridays, 



78 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

and by getting more attractive music, choral and congregational, 
on Sundays. Gradually and surely the morning congregation 
increased, while in the evening the church would not contain 
the numbers who sought admission. 

My visit to this church on Sunday, the 13th ult., was 
exceedingly gratifying, the service generally being most 
devotional and impressive. Not that there was any ornate or 
elaborate music — quite the contrar>' ; all being well-chosen (like 
Tallis's responses) on account of its pure and primitive character, 
and being full throughout. Indeed, the style took one back ; 
in spirit to those early times when church music was free from 
many of the empty embellishments which would rather grace 
the concert-room performances than assimilate with the 
simplicity and sublimity of our Liturgy. There was massiveness 
without heaviness, and plainness without monotony. 

The appropriate processional hymn, No. 172, Ancient and 
Modern — " Praise to the holiest in the height " — having been 
sung, the confession was intoned softly by Canon Bullock, and 
responded to by the choir in the same quiet devotional spirit. 
In my long experience as a choirmaster I have always endea- 
voured to obtain this result ; in fact, to keep the tone quite 
subdued until the glorious injunction from the minister, imme- 
diately preceding the Venite is reached — " Praise ye the Lord," 
which, with the still more glorious response — " The Lord's name 
be praised," should be given in a jubilant strain — decisive and 
forte. The Lord's Prayer, and nearly all the rest of the Preces, 
Responses, and Versicles, were accompanied by the organ — 
a practice which should, I think, be reserved for festivals and 
high days. 

Monk and Ouseley's Psalter was used for the Venite^ Canticles, 
and Psalms. As a rule the chanting was in good tune and time, 
the preservation of the pitch by the boys on the reciting 
note (sometimes too high) being excellent, considering how 
many very youthful singers there are. But there is room for 
much improvement in that most important point, the distinct 
enunciation of the words, so that not a syllable is lost, a vowel 
smothered, or the tails of the words — the consonants — swallowed. 
In my former articles on chanting in other churches, I have 
dwelt so much on the great importance of this matter, that 
I have only to refer my readers to them if they desire further 
information and suggestions. The Te Deuin should not, in the 
opinion of experienced organists, be sung to the same chant 
throughout. The jubilant character of the strain which is 
suitable for such verses as ** We praise Thee, O God " " All the 



HOLY TRINITY CHURCH. 79 

earth doth worship Thee," *' Thou art the King of Glory/' " Day 
by day we magnify Thee," is unsuitable, and does not afford 
a fitting expression for such solemn utterances as " We believe 
that Thou shalt come to be our Judge," " Vouchsafe, O Lord, to 
keep us this day without sin," etc. 

The canticle version of the Hundredth Psalm — Jubilate Deo — 
requires a bold, solid chant, which should be sung with spirit and 
animation. 

The second hymn (No. 272, A. and M.), " O, Saviour, may we 
never rest," sung to a minor tune, was evidently not altogether 
acceptable to the congregation, who joined in but little. 

One of the best portions of the service was Tallis's Litany, 
intoned by the vicar with admirable clearness of voice, distinct 
enunciation, and appropriate expression. And how grand the 
choral responses are of the service in this part, especially at the 
sentence, " Son of God, we beseech Thee to hear us," where the 
harmonies and the change from the, key of C to B flat major lifts 
the soul of the devout worshipper up from earth to heaven ! 
The organ, built by Abbott, of Leeds — one of the best of its 
size he has yet erected — is placed at the north side of the church, 
at a height of ten feet above the floor, the underside of which 
has been ceiled with dressed oak boarding, and divided into 
ribbed, moulded, and ornamental oak panels, but it has yet to 
receive a worthy and appropriate case, and the sooner this is 
done the better for its external appearance and effect. The 
organist (Mr. Hudson) is an amateur of much ability, and no doubt 
he does his best to render his onerous duties faithfully and well. 
For his opening voluntary he played the well-known Andante 
in B flat, from a Sonata by Mendelssohn, the concluding 
voluntary being the late Edward Bache's clever Andante and 
Allegro in D. 

In addition to Mr. Appleby and Mr. Fourness, the Church 
Council have the assistance of Messrs. W. Leigh, W. Morris, W. 
F. Smithson, and W. Teanby. The Churchwarden, of many 
years standing, is Mr. Wm. Green, who has rendered long and 
valuable services to the Church, and the able, hard-working 
curate is the Rev. F. S. Baines. All these, with the indefatigable 
Vicar as their chief and guide, work together with zeal and 
fervour for the welfare of the Church ; in short, there seems 
to be a Masonic unity with them all, and probably this is so, 
remembering that Canon Bullock is the present Provincial Grand 
Chaplain of West Yorkshire. 



8o SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

No. 5. — St. Martin's Church, Potternewton. 

There is no pleasanter spot within the same distance from 
busy Leeds than that part of Potternewton whereon stands the 
beautiful Church dedicated to St Martin. Newton Park, the 
district in which it is situated, has long been noted for its 
salubrious air, undulating land, and its surrounding rich 
umbrageous woods and foliage. The edifice has been erected on 
a rising piece of ground a short distance from the main road to 
Chapeltown and Harrogate, and contiguous to what was for 
many years known as Sir George Goodman's Park. 

The particular services which I wish now more especially to 
notice were held on Sunday, July 20th, the Sixth Sunday after 
Trinity, in the morning at 10.30 and the evening at 6.30. After 
a soft voluntary, an Andante by Mendelssohn, the excellent 
choir, which numbers twenty boys, four altos, four tenors, and 
seven basses (thirty-five voices), emerge from the vestry at the 
back of the organ, and sing with much sweetness (in which 
they are immediately joined by the congregation) a processional 
hymn, — on this occasion it was No. 240, Ancient and Modern — 

** Pleasant are Thy courts above, 
In the land of light and love." 

With the exception of the pretty, interpolated cadences in the 
Confession, Tallis's Responses, Preces, Suffrages, Versicles, etc. 
— composed in 1570, and never yet surpassed for purity of 
ecclesiastical melody and harmony — are invariably sung. In 
some places the Confession is harmonised throughout, with a 
cadence at the end of each clause ; in others, two or three scraps 
of it are harmonised, and the rest given in unison — a bad 
practice. This originated at Ely, and has been introduced else- 
where. Some choirs make a chord and an accent on the word 
** lost,'* so as to give great importance to this word. There is no 
word in the Confession which can be cut out with less injury to 
the service than this. The important part of this clause is, 
" We have erred and strayed from Thy ways " — by way 
of simile we add " like sheep," and then, without any additional 
information, we add "lost." It is, in my opinion, wrong to 
give great importance to this word, not to mention the bad 
break it makes in the unison. The consistent plan is, I think, 
to have the Confession entirely in unison^ sung very softly on 
Fa, Amen included. In the words of the Prayer Book, the 
minister invites the choir and people to say the Confession " with 
a pure heart and humble voice," and in pursuance of that request 
it is sometimes gabbled in the most indistinct, slovenly, undevo- 



ST. martin's church, POTTERNEWTON. - ^ 8l 

tional way possible ; and is neither quite after the minister, 
nor quite with him, but between the two ; not thus, however, at 
St. Martin's. 

The Venite^ Psalms, and Canticles were all sung to chants — a 
mixture of single and double chants. The fine old chant by- 
Tucker to the Venite^ with occasional unison verses, was very 
eflfective ; not so, however, Purcell's minor chant in A (in which 
the people joined but little) to the Psalm Domine exaudi, " Hear 
my Prayer, O Lord " ; but fine again to the grand old 103rd 
Psalm, BenediCy anima mea^ " Praise the Lord, O my soul," sung 
to the well-known double chant in D by Davy, of Exeter, who, 
by the way, was the composer of the famous song " The Bay of 
Biscay." 

The Communion Service was most impressive. The quiet, 
devotional manner in which most of the music was sung, and the 
sweet voices of many of the ladies in the congregation, all aiding 
to swell the voice of prayer and supplication. The Kyrie Eleison 
by Tours is an expressive setting, as I mentioned after hearing it 
sung at St. Bartholomew's, Armley, but the offertory sentences 
by Farebrother are not so good as music. The Credo by 
Merbecke, in unison, written in 1550, I do not like. It is in 
a bunch of keys, ugly and obsolete in its form, and utterly 
devoid of character and true musical feeling, and in which 
Ancient and Modern chords get strangely and indefinably mixed. 
Only listen to the settings by Smart and Wesley afterwards, and 
the truth of what I assert will at once be seen. The declaration 
of faith in the Nicene Creed has ever been regarded by Holy 
Church as one of the grandest parts of our Liturgy, and 
especially suited to the finest and most elevated strains of 
musical composition. In olden times it was the custom in 
Poland for the nobles to draw and elevate their swords at the 
words " God of God ! Light of Light ! Very God of Very 
God ! " But the accompanying music was also noble and 
elevating. I should like to have seen them do it when 
Merbecke's music was being sung. Monotoning the Creed with 
free, appropriate, and changing organ harmonies, is far better 
and much more effective, in my humble opinion, than 
Merbecke. 

The hymns, all chosen from "Ancient and Modern," are 
well sung by choir and congregation at St. Martin's, with much 
devotional fervour. The principal hymn in the morning service 
was "I heard the voice of Jesus say" (No. 311), and in the 
evening " Hark, hark, my soul, angelic songs are swelling " (No. 
223). Dykes wrote the first and Smart the second tune. Both 

F 



82 • SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

are good, but the last is immensely so ; and those who can 
analyse music a little will perceive the difference between the 
work of a clever amateur and that of a practised, sterling 
musician like Smart. One is pretty, expressive, and devotional ; 
the other is strong, well laid out for each voice, melodious, and 
elevating. It may be taken as an illustration of the divergence 
and divarication existing between amateur and professional 
musical work in general. At the evening service, at which 
there was the usual large congregation, the Psalms were sung 
to a double chant by Soper, with a reciting note for the last 
phrase in the treble on E natural — two notes higher than 
necessary — transposed. 

In addition to chants and hymns, there was an anthem 
by Sir George Elvey, " Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse 
his way," in which the soli parts were taken by Master 
Leonard Sedgwick, Messrs. Winkworth (alto), Whitehouse 
(tenor), and Atkinson (bass), whose excellent voices blended 
well together. The organist and choirmaster is Mr. Alfred 
Benton. 



No. 6. — Brunswick Chapel. 

Brunswick Chapel has for many years been regarded by 
a large section of the Wesleyan community as being one of the 
most important centres connected with that notable body in the 
kingdom. On memorable and important occasions nearly 2,000 
people have assembled in this place of worship, and the weekly 
congregations have been large and influential. 

I have had the advantage of attending the services on two 
Sunday mornings, viz., the loth of August and on last Sunday 
(November 23rd). The grand organ, which is placed in the 
south gallery, and extends its wings from one side of the chapel 
to the other, has a massive mahogany case with most elaborate 
carving and gilt pipes throughout the front, and cost ;;^i,ooo. 
The instrument itself has had nearly £2,000 expended on it 
since it was built by Mr. Joseph Booth, of Wakefield, in 1827, 
and opened by the distinguished organist and composer, Samuel 
Wesley, father of Dr. Sebastian Wesley, who was for six years 
organist of the Leeds Parish Church. The instrument is blown 
by two hydraulic engines, and is r}ow justly regarded as one of 
the most effective Wesleyan organs in Yorkshire. It consists 



BRUNSWICK CHAPEL. 83 

of three complete manuals and a pedal organ ; compass of each 
manual CC to F; pedal from CCC to F. In the great there 
are ten, swell twelve, choir seven, and the pedal, twelve stops, 
including a double thirty-two feet open diapason. There are 
also five couplers and ten composition pedals for the adjustment 
of the stops, etc., making altogether a total of forty-one stops, 
exclusive of pedals of adjustment. An important feature is 
that all these registers go through : there are no half or divided 
stops. Some notable men have been organists at Brunswick 
Chapel ; amongst these may be mentioned Mr. Edward Booth, 
editor of the " Wesley an Psalmist," and who held the appoint- 
ment for fifty years, commencing with a salary of ;^30, which 
was gradually advanced to ;^I50. Then the clever Mr. George 
Hirst, who was followed in his turn by the present talented player, 
Mr. E. A. Keighley. When the organist who now occupies the 
organ seat was appointed two or three years ago, at a salary of 
;;^8o per annum, a large number of candidates applied for the 
office, and an amusing and curious incident occurred respecting 
his election which I think is worth recording. Mr. G. S. (since 
deceased) was regarded by the trustees and others as not only 
being himself musical, but, coming from a family who had taken 
a deep interest in the chapel services for many years, particularly 
qualified to judge at the trial which took place in the chapel. 
After some of the selected candidates had performed their 
pieces with more or less skill, Mr. G. S. was informed that the 
succeeding player was a pupil of my own, and that he was to be 
followed by a pupil of another and very prominent organist in 
Leeds. Unfortunately for the assumed knowledge of the chief 
judge, the names of the two latter candidates had been reversed, 
and my supposed pupil, who, I understand, did not play well, was 
highly lauded and strongly recommended, whilst my real pupil 
— represented to belong to the other teacher — received the 
appointment ! Under these circumstances I do not feel myself 
in a position to say much about Mr. Keighley*s playing, but 
it is only a simple act of justice to state that on the two 
occasions on which I have attended Brunswick Chapel he gave 
very fine readings of two of Bach's most difficult toccatas and 
fugueSy Mendelssohn's Sixth Sonata, and pieces by Guilmant, 
Smart, etc. The excellent choir consists of 45 singers, divided 
as follows, viz. : Treble (females), 14 ; altos (men and females) 
9 ; tenors, 8 ; basses, 14. 

The vocal portion of the service on my first visit was of a 
simple and congregational character, consisting only of chants 
for the Te Deum and hymns. Chanting the Venite exultemuSy 



84 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

Te Deum, selected Psalms, etc., is a modern innovation in 
the Methodist service ; and whilst those who have been 
accustomed to its almost daily use from childhood (as I have) 
can readily perceive that it is scarcely " native and to the manner 
born " with a Wesleyan choir, the introduction of the grand old 
canticle of St. Ambrosius, objected to at first by many of the 
elder members of the congregation, is now accepted as a 
welcome addition, affording a devotional and elevating act of 
praise which did not exist before. It is only ten years 
ago since the " Brunswick Service Book," edited by the 
Rev. H. W. Holland, containing Psalms and other portions of 
Scripture, pointed for chanting by Edward Booth, was published 
and introduced. Having had much experience in this branch 
of the musical service, I think I may venture to say that the 
chanting is too slow, and somewhat drawling — it lacks life, 
spirit, and animation, the recitation on the first note and the 
rythmical portion of the chant being much too deliberate ; 
while the pauses at the end of each verse should not exist, two 
quick minims in each bar being necessary to secure a proper 
rendering of these chants. Still, both organ and choir keep 
admirably together, and each blends with the other in sweet and 
dulcet harmony. 

Many Christians, especially the frequenters of " fashionable " 
places of worship, seem not to regard the intelligent and hearty 
use of Hymnody as a duty, or an important privilege, but rather 
as a mere mundane indulgence. The movement, however, 
toward congregational singing has undoubtedly gained great 
strength of late years, and much activity in regard to it has 
been displayed by almost all sects of Christians, excepting, 
perhaps, the Roman Catholics. But the Methodists, whether it 
be the " old body," or any of its numerous off-shoots, all went in 
for hearty congregational singing ; they didn't wait to be taught 
to sing, and declined artistic training when it was proffered. 
They relied on the human voice divine — on " the organ made 
without hands." I should mention that the Rev. J. Alexander 
Armstrong occupied the pulpit on the occasion of my first visit 
and that last Sunday the minister was the Rev. Marshall 
Randall, Superintendent of the Circuit. In memory of the 
Rev. John Farrar, the oldest minister in the Methodist 
connexion, who died last week, the organist played The Dead 
March in Saul at the conclusion of the sermon, and, as an 
outgoing voluntary, one of Bach's brilliant — rather too brilliant 
under the circumstances — Toccatas, 



ST. JOHN THE EVANGELIST. 85 

No. 7. — St. John the Evangelist. 

My visit to this interesting old church was on Sunday, September 
2ist, the Fifteenth Sunday after Trinity, on the occasion of its 
re-opening after extensive repairs and renovation, and also in 
celebration of the 250th anniversary of the consecration, which 
took place in 1634. 

The congregation on the day of my visit was a very large one, 
and included the Mayor (Aid. Woodhouse), Mr. Bruce, the 
Stipendiary Magistrate, and many other leading local gentlemen. 

The choir entered, singing the favourite processional hymn — 

** We love the place, oh God, 
Wherein Thine honour dwells," 

consisting of sixteen boys, six or eight probationers, five altos, 
six tenors, and eight basses, making about thirty-five (exclusive 
of the probationers), all voluntary singers. The good old 
English plan of putting the number of the hymn in a prominent 
place — in this church in black figures placed against the nearest 
pillar to the entrance porch — is here wisely carried out. The 
whole of the Preces, Versioles, Responses, etc., are sung to Tallis's 
time-honoured music. Unfortunately, however, the priest's part 
is read, and not intoned as it should be, and from this cause no 
doubt arose the sinking of the pitch by the choir, sometimes 
reaching a whole tone, which, of course, is very objectionable, 
and, in fact, results in a lack of devotion and proper effect. The 
chants used for the Psalms and Canticles are generally taken 
from Mercer's Psalter, and the hymns are invariably selected 
from " Hymns Ancient and Modern," the new and revised edition. 

On this occasion the Venite was sung to a fine ancient chant, 
chiefly in unis9n, the Psalms of the day to two chants, Crotch 
and Woodward ; the Te Deiim, and others by S. Wesley in F, 
and Jackson in B flat, and the Benedictus with its devotional 
ending, " Guide our feet into the way of peace ; " this being 
followed by the Athanasian Creed to the usual old chant inverted. 

Ihe pointing and division of the words, in the Canticles 
especially, is not satisfactory, and should, in my humble opinion, 
be speedily changed, and I must confess that the hurried, 
indevout style on the reciting note as well as in the singing of 
the rhythmical part of the chant led prominently forth by the 
choirmaster, whose voice was always in advance of the rest, 
cannot be commended. Undoubtedly the best efforts of the 
choir were shown in the Communion Service, when Calkin's 
setting in D was on the whole excellently given ; but the trebles 
were certainly too weak in the Credo, Canon Scott very 
distinctly intoned the priest's part. I believe that the choral 



86 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

celebration of the Holy Communion is generally rendered at 
this church in a most devotional and efficient manner. The 
best part of the musical services at St. John's is, however, 
reserved for the congregation, who take the singing of the hymns 
chiefly into their own hands, and give forth with heart and 
voice those beautiful hymns which have become popular ever 
since they were first introduced by that never-to-be-forgotten 
estimable parish priest, the Rev. Ed. Munro, and continued and 
fostered by his learned and respected successor. Canon Temple. 
It is also, I believe, the earnest wish of the present vicar, Canon 
Scott, that the services of which he has charge should be as 
popular and congregational as possible. 

tjnfortunately for the organist, Mr. George Tetley, who has 
the reputation of being a clever amateur, the organ used on this 
occasion was a very small instrument, which had done duty 
for many years in Roundhay Church, and was placed there 
temporarily whilst the new organ is being built. 

The large instrument, which is to be rebuilt and enlarged by 
Mr. Abbott, at the expense of Mrs. Stead, of Harrogate, widow 
of the late Walter Stead, who attended the church for many 
years and gave the magnificent oak case in 1871, was erected by 
Mr. Francis Booth, of Wakefield, in the same year. It contains 
three manuals and pedal organ, and has altogether forty stops. 
No doubt when the organ is completed and has been artistically 
inaugurated by eminent, experienced performers, it will prove to 
be of infinite value in the rendering of the musical services 
generally at St. John's the Evangelist. 

1 may mention, in bringing my notice to a close, that the 
works recently finished at the church have been carried out by 
the following firms : — Messrs. Franks and Evans, Messrs. Dean, 
Horsman, Welsh, Dacre, Beckwith, and Furniss. 



No. 8. — St. Mary's, Richmond Hill. 

It has, I believe, been generally admitted by all competent 
impartial observers, that the Church, but more particularly the 
Roman Catholic Church, is the grand and fundamental source 
of musical knowledge. No doubt those with less experience, and 
whose proclivities lead them to prefer secular music, would 
assert that the opera is the fountain-head of musical knowledge, 
and from which the light flows and is diffused on all sides. It 
has been said that the Catholic religion is proverbially " the 



ST. MARY*S, RICHMOND HILL. 87 

religion of music," a title that it unquestionably merits in the 
most exalted sense that the term can be applied to it. Of 
course I do not mean to affirm that all the music of the Catholic 
Church is appropriate for devotional purposes ; far from it ; for 
much of it is very inappropriate ; but it is perfectly true that a 
great deal of the old Italian and German church music shows 
that in both countries the great ecclesiastical writers have 
preceded the lyrical composers. Pope Gregory, Allegri, Durante, 
Pergolesi, and others, were certainly the precursors, not the 
successors or contemporaries, of the Cimarosas and Pasielos, 
who also wrote church music. But what a glorious band of 
German composers they were, and produced the very highest 
order of ecclesiastical composition ! The masses of Sebastian 
Bach, Haydn, Mozart, Winter,* Beethoven, and Weber are 
among the most interesting, beautiful, and affecting of all 
musical works ; and are the outpourings of genius ; full of 
deep learning and glowing sympathy, and never fail, when 
properly performed, to produce the greatest and highest 
devotional and religious effects on those to whom nature has 
deigned one spark of the celestial fire, or rendered in the 
remotest degree susceptible of musical impressions. And then 
to remember that this lovely music, which was designed to 
assist the handmaid of religion in rendering all the pomp, 
ceremony, and splendid ritual of the Church with the greatest 
effect, should be performed to perfection by the greatest artistic 
talent the world ever knew — Patti, Grisi, Garcia, Catalani, Titiens, 
Gassier, Tamburini, Mario, Santley, Guiglini, and scores of other 
heaven-born singers ; when, in an instant, Mirabile dictu ! it was 
dropped as a worthless stone in a deep loch — from which it 
will not easily be drawn up, without the most persevering and 
gigantic efforts on the part of those who do believe in the power, 
beauty, and usefulness of music, such as I have described, in 
adding to the attractions, influence, and wealth of Mother Church. 

These reflections have occurred to my mind from a knowledge 
of the fact that the Cardinal Archbishop of Westminster, 
several years ago, promulgated a pastoral letter in which he 
desired that female singers for " various " cogent reasons, should 
be excluded from taking any part in the musical services of the 
Catholic Church in England over which he presides. 

Those who agreed with him speedily adopted his suggestions, 
and substituted very sorry choir boys for the talented lady 
vocalists who had previously assisted them. But there were 
bishops and priests who did not agree with or obey, and only 
last year I opened a new organ at Stockport, where the usual 



88 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS, 

choir of the church, so ably trained by that clever amateur, 
Father Robinson, was supported and strengthened by some of 
the best lady vocalists Lancashire could produce, and their 
united efforts in the performance of masses by the great 
masters was productive of the most gratifying results, religiously 
and pecuniarily. Why should Yorkshire or any other county be 
deprived of the great advantage of the assistance which female 
voices can give so beautifully and efficiently ? 

My visit to the church of the oblates of Mary Immaculate, 
Richmond Hill, Leeds, was, as it happened, most opportune, it 
being the anniversary of the re-opening of the church, and the 
feast day of the Saint to whose honour the church is dedicated. 

The present choir consists of twenty-five boy trebles, three 
altos, six tenors, and six basses, all of whom give their services 
voluntarily. The organist. Father Gobert, receives no salary, 
but has discharged his duties admirably for thirty years. At 
the ordinary services the music used is of a plain character, 
and, excepting on Sundays, the singing partly congregational. 
I must confess that I should only have been too glad to have 
heard a little congregational singing in our own vernacular, but 
all that was sung, being uttered to Latin words, and the congre- 
gation being mostly of the poorer classes, I could not help 
thinking that very little of it could be " understanded of the 
people," in which case the Reverend Fathers had it all to 
themselves. 

Since the female choir has been disbanded no entire Mass by 
any of the great composers has been sung, and even on Sunday 
last, their great festal day, only various small excerpts from the 
Masses of Haydn, Mozart, Weber, etc , were given. 

Generally on Sundays there are two services for children ; one 
in the morning at 9.30, and another in the afternoon at three 
o'clock. The children form the choir at these services. At 
eleven o'clock mass is sung by a full choir, who again in the 
evening assist at vespers, an anthem, the benediction, etc. 

During the consecration one of Samuel Webb's beautiful 
Agnus Deis was admirably sung by the choir, and at the offer- 
tory an Ave Maria^hy H. Phillips, was rendered in a satisfactory 
manner. The organ, of two manuals only, is not worthy of the 
church. It was built many years ago by Booth, of Wakefield, 
and is placed in the west gallery. With a church so admirable 
for its acoustic properties, there is a splendid opportunity 
for erecting a large and effective instrument which would be 
worthy of the grand edifice, and the devoted Reverend Fathers 
whose whole lives are given to the services of Him to whom we 
owe everything. 



MILL HILL CHAPEL. 89 

No. 9. — Mill Hill Chapel. 

The musical services in the handsome and commodious chapel 
situated in Park Row, and very nearly opposite the General Post 
Office, are certainly of a superior character, and deserve special 
notice and attention. The cultivation of the arts, together with 
intellectual refinement and research, have been always marked 
characteristics of the Unitarian life. The members of this body 
are generally to be found amongst those who are ever anxious 
for the higher education, both of themselves and the community 
at large. Its members have occupied high and responsible 
positions on the magisterial bench, as well as in the advocacy of 
the law and in the higher professions generally. Leeds especially 
has had several men of great mark, benevolence, and influence, 
who have been members of the Mill Hill Chapel congregation, 
and who have taken an active part in the work connected there- 
with. The names of Lupton, Carbutt, Buckton, Kitson, Schunck, 
Cliff, Wurtzburg, Wm. Brown, etc., sufficiently testify to the 
influence and intellectualism of this congregation. 

The organist, Mr. A. Farrar Briggs, is a musician of high 
accomplishments ; not only is he an able organist, both as a 
soloist and accompanist, but he is also an excellent tenor 
vocalist, and very recently he made a decided " hit " by his 
tasteful singing in Scotland. I am proud to add that he was 
one of my favourite articled pupils, and adds to his other accom- 
plishments those of being a clever choir-master and teacher, and 
his playing is characterised by combined decision and expression 
— both equally to be commended. The selection of the words of 
the hymns, psalms, canticles, anthems, etc., has been prepared 
expressly for the use of the Unitarian community, and, I should 
say, are to a degree aesthetic and philosophical. For instance, 
the opening hymn commenced with the lines — 

** Ancient of ages, humbly bent before Thee, 
Songs of glad homage, Lord, to Thee we bring." 

And the second hymn — 

** See, through the heavenly arch, 
With silent, stately march, 
The starry ranks for ever swec]* ; 
In graduate scale of might, 
They all are sons of light. 
And all their times and orders keep." 

The first of these was sung to a very good tune, composed by 
the organist ; and the last hymn, commencing with the words — 

** Thanks to God for those who came 
In the gospel of glorious name," 

was sung with much power and fervour by the choir and congre- 



9© SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

gation. The first lesson was taken from Isaiah and Jeremiah, 
and for the second a short reading from Corinthians II., chap, 
vi. The Psalms were the 51st, Miserere mei Deus, sung to 
an old English chant by Flintoft, transposed from the original 
key of G minor to E minor, and the 52nd, Quid GloriariSy to a 
double chant in C major, which is a concoction of two Gregorian 
melodies dovetailed into one. Taken altogether, these were 
rendered with distinct utterance, although somewhat rough in 
tone, the chief fault being that of making too prolonged a pause 
at the end of the reciting note. 

The Te Deum by Joseph Barnby is characteristic of the 
composer's general style of sacred music — it is flowing and 
melodious, though somewhat patchy, but rarely rises to dignity 
or grandeur. Such magnificent words as 

** We praise Thee, O God, 
We acknowledge Thee to be the Lord ; 
All the earth doth worship Thee, 
The Father everlasting," 

should, without doubt, be allied to music divine and elevating. 

The hymn Te Deum Laudamus is not a Roman hymn 
according to recent investigations, and must not be attributed to 
S. Ambrose. The Abbe de Fleury affirms that it is of the 
Galician rite, and the composition of S. Hillary, Bishop of 
Poictiers. And this hymn, being the work of episcopal hands, 
and flowing from an episcopal head, has always been a great and 
special favourite with bishops Hence the elephant folios, the 
large square blocks of Gregorian notation, the beautiful writing, 
the exquisite ink, the gorgeous capitals, and the expensive 
bindings, with which the hymn is surrounded. But our present 
bishops are exceptions. Very few of them attempt to sing even 
the opening phrase 

The Te Deum was never a people's song — never a great 
congregational hymn. On the contrary, it was a hymn for 
a high dignitary to play off* with, and for a good choir to exhibit 
in. Most of our native composers have set music of a more or 
less exalted character to the Te Deum^ and the oftener the choir 
at Mill Hill sing those by Wesley, Smart, Attwood, Hopkins, 
etc., the better will it be for the congregation as listeners. I 
may now mention that the present choir consists of no less than 
thirty- four voices — thirteen trebles (females and boys^, seven 
altos, six tenors, and eight basses. For many years, when the 
late Mr. Joseph Lancaster was organist, the choir consisted only 
of a paid quartet — four of the best vocalists that could be 
obtained in Leeds. Afterwards, by the persevering efforts of 



MILL HILL CHAPEL. 9 1 

that accomplished amateur, Mr. Charles Wurtzburg, assisted by 
an influential choir committee, the foundation of the present 
choral body was laid, and their performance of such anthems as 
"Hear my prayer" (Mendelssohn), " Lauda Zion," " Come, let 
us sing," Wesley's " Wilderness/' Green's " God is our hope," 
etc., affords the most gratifying proofs of their ability to sing the 
highest class of sacred music. It is of course a great advantage 
to the congregation to be supported by a choir like this ; they 
rarely joined with the quartet in the people's music, but now 
unite heartily and well in singing ** glorious songs of praise." 
There are no versicles, responses, etc., as in the Anglican Church 
service, but snatches of Scripture called " The Beatitudes " — 
(" Blessed are the poor in spirit," " Blessed are the pure in heart," 
etc.) — have been adapted to Tallis's grand old ecclesiastical 
strains, and are frequently used in the service with much accep- 
tance. It would be a decided advantage if the authorities could 
obtain a copy of the responses composed by Henry Smart to the 
order of Mr. R. Peacock, J. P., of Gorton Hall, near Manchester, 
for use in the splendid church (Unitarian) which he has built at 
his own expense, and furnished with a magnificence hardly to be 
surpassed. Having on several occasions presided at the grand 
organ in this church, [ have often heard these responses by 
Smart sung, and it goes without remark that they are beautiful 
and appropriate 

In connection with the choir at Mill Hill there are many good 
concerts given in the fine room erected for that purpose and 
congregational meetings. Such popular works as Bennett's 
May Queen, and Cowen's Rose Maiden, have been given with 
excellent results ; and at present the first and second parts of 
Haydn's Creation are in practice for production early next 
month. 

I must not forget to mention that the anthem last Sunday 
morning was Mendelssohn's " How lovely are the messengers," 
from St, Paul, and that it was admirably and spiritedly sung by 
the choir, its touching melody and powerful harmonical com- 
binations being finely developed by both singers and organist. 
No notice of the choir of Mill Hill Chapel could be perfect 
without naming the long, able, and faithful duties of that fine 
old bass chorus singer, Mr. Edward Cooke (Registrar), who is a 
veritable G.O.M., and who on Sunday last was present, joining 
heartily in the services, and appearing more like a middle-aged 
healthy looking man than one who has attained the venerable 
age of eighty-two. May he live long and preserve his present 
good health and keen intelligence ! 



92 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

The organ, which is placed in a recess at the back of the 
pulpit, was originally built by Holt, of Leeds, and now consists 
of three manuals, 36 stops (or registers), two and a half octaves 
of pedals, six composition adjustments, etc. It is a tolerably 
effective instrument, containing many sweet stops ; but, taken 
altogether, is scarcely worthy of the building, the congregation, 
or the organist's powers. The noise or bumping of the hydraulic 
blower is an annoying defect, that I venture to say ought to be 
rectified forthwith. 

The sermon was preached by the learned and eloquent 
minister of the chapel, the Rev. Charles Hargrove, M.A., whose 
energetic work in connection with his congregation, and, 
generally, in all matters connected with the welfare and social 
advancement of the town of his adoption, are so well known. 

So close a reasoner as Mr. Hargrove will, I hope, forgive me 
if I venture to say that I cannot agree with him in his statement 
that " Music is the frailest of all arts " (the actual words used in 
his delivery). My own humble opinion is that it is the strongest, 
and will live the longest ; indeed, we have scriptural authority 
for knowing that music is the only occupation promised in 
heaven for the redeemed. There is no mention whatever of 
painting, sculpture, or any other art, save and except music, and 
that will therefore remain to the end of the world, and through 
all eternity. Only a very limited number of persons can gaze 
upon an original painting or a piece of sculpture at the same 
time ; but the works of the great Masters of Music may be 
heard simultaneously, as they were written^ in every quarter of 
the globe by millions at one and the same moment ! There is 
no " frailty " in music ; in itself it is pure, holy, undefiled, and 
strong. It is only when allied to improper words, or interwoven 
with the objectionable work of other arts, that music can be 
termed " frail." Goethe says " The whole of art appears most 
eminent in music^ since it requires no material, no subject 
matter, whose effect must be deducted ; it is wholly form and 
power, and it raises and ennobles whatever it expresses.*' 
No ; music is not the ** frailest,'' but the best, most useful, and 
strongest of all the arts, in its relation to religion, war, peace, 
education, and immortality ; and I may be permitted, I trust, 
in conclusion, to express my own firm conviction in regard to 
the first relation of music (religion), that all church buildings 
without this art are mere shells without inside fruit, ships 
without crew and cargo, and simply provocative of the inevitable 
condemnation and distraction of the church itself. 

It will be interesting to many persons to peruse the following 



EAST PARADE CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH. 93 

list of the distinguished men who have occupied the pulpit at 
Mill Hill Chapel : — Dr. Priestley ; Rev. Dr. Hutton, jfather of 
Richard Hutton, the well-known present editor of The Spectator, 
1818— 1835 ; Charles Wicksteed, B.A., Glasgow, 1835 — 1854; 
Thomas Hincks, B.A., London, 1855 — 1869 J Joseph Estlin 
Carpenter, M.A., London, 1869 — 1875 ; Charles Hargrove, M.A., 
Cambridge, 1876. 



No. 10. — East Parade Congregational Church. 

In connection with religion, politics, and freedom, the Congre- 
gationalists of this country hold an undeniably high and 
influential position, and probably no town in the provinces has 
stood more nobly forward and been more successful in its 
movements connected with the Congregational Churches than 
Leeds. But what a galaxy of talent, industry, and energy the 
members have had to work with ! Taking the first and foremost 
of those living, and bearing in mind the many distinguished men 
who have gone before, there stands Sir Edward Baines, the 
impersonation of all that is good and great among his compeers 
of the Congregationalists. There are, however, many others 
whose names I shall mention further on, from the time of that 
famous minister, the Rev. John Ely, down to the present occupier 
of the pulpit, who have done good and laudable service, and 
been burning and shining lights in the history of the Independent 
churches in Leeds. 

My chief object is with the music used and practised in their 
worship in the sanctuaries, and of this I had a fair opportunity 
of judging last Sunday at the fine edifice in East Parade, when 
the Rev. Dr. Conder, the present highly-esteemed and learned 
minister, conducted the services. From the earliest days of their 
existence. Independents and Presbyterians have taken a warm 
and deep interest in Psalmody, and many grand old German, 
Scotch, and Lutheran chorales were preserved and sung by them 
with a tenacity that reflected much credit on their taste, judg- 
ment, and faith. It was not, however, until 1858, when a 
determined movement was made by the introduction of large 
choirs of good singers, and the publication of that comprehensive 
tune book, " The Congregational Psalmist," edited by the 
indefatigable Rev. Dr. Henry Allon, and the learned musician, 
Dr. Gauntlett, that the musical arrangements of all the churches 
were improved in a very decided manner. In the last edition of 



94 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

the Psalmist there are no less than 500 tunes, nearly all having 
been selected from the best and most authentic sources, and 
numbers were specially composed for the work by Dr. Gauntlett 
and other sound and experienced musicians. The collection is 
to be commended also for being arranged and printed in the 
exact rhythm or time in which the tunes are to be sung. It is 
but too often the case with other hymn tune-books that the 
executants do not know how long to sustain the closing and 
beginning note of each phrase or line. Dr. Gauntlett, however, 
insisted upon every tune being sung with exactness of time and 
equality of parts. This, with the addition of strong, pure 
harmonies, makes the " Congregational Psalmist " a very valu- 
able collection of tunes. At the same time it has a fault — and a 
serious one in my opinion — and that is, many of our best and 
most familiar tunes have been transposed into a higher and a 
more difficult singing key, no doubt with the idea of obtaining 
increased power and bHlliancy, as with the extended musical 
pitch so strongly advocated by many persons for the wood and 
brass instruments used in our bands and orchestras. For 
example. Dr. Croft's grand old tune " Hanover," generally sung 
to the words — 

" My soul, praise the Lord, 
Speak good of Ilis name;" etc., 

is in most collections given in G (some in A), but Dr. Gauntlett 
prints it two notes higher, in the key of B flat ! The first hymn 
sung last Sunday (No. 385), commencing with the words — 

** Come, ye sinners, poor and wretched. 
Weak and wounded, sick and sore," 

and ending with the refrain — 

** He is able, he is willing ; doubt no more,** 

was given to Smart's tine tune, " Regent Square," now so 
popular with all sects and denominations. 
The second hymn (No. 375), 

** My heart is resting, O my God, 
I will give thanks and sing," etc., 

clothed as it was in the beautiful strains of the tune " Elim," by 
the late William Hutchings Callcott, was sung most sweetly by 
the united choir and congregation, but, like the first, was scarcely 
sufficiently and appropriately supported by the organ ; and 
where, in the last verse, ending — 

*' Thou art my portion, saith my soul, 
Ten thousand voices say, 
And the music of their glad Amen 
Will never die away^* 



EAST PARADE CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH. 95 

the organ was surely required to swell out its deep and glorious 
tones instead of which it became softer by degrees, and in the 
end the voices were left to shift for themselves and retire 
consumedly. But perhaps the engine failed, the wind went out, 
or something happened of which I am not cognisant. 

It was most gratifying to find that the bulk of the congrega- 
tion had music books with them, and took their respective parts 
of treble, alto, tenor, or bass with becoming accuracy and 
confidence. Indeed, one member near me was able to sing 
correctly either tenor or bass — according to his inclination — thus 
proving that he must have studied singing for many long years. 
Following on the publication of the Psalmist^ Dr. Allon brought 
out in 1875 a second section, consisting of chants, sanctuses, etc., 
in which a choice selection of the Psalms of David are pointed 
and divided for recitation and cadence. Nearly all the chants 
are drawn from the best Anglican Church collections, and are as 
familiar as household words "in quires and places where they 
sing." This is another step in the right direction, and cannot be too 
highly commended, for assuredly the compositions of " the sweet 
Psalmist of Israel" — "the man after God's own heart," afford 
the best source of praise and thanksgiving in worshipping the 
Lord in His holy temple ; and hath not the pious Hooker said, 
" They must have hearts very dry and tough from whom the 
melody of the Psalms doth not sometimes draw that wherein a 
mind religiously affected delighteth." And thus it is, I make 
bold to say, that when Dr. Conder read for the first lesson that 
glorious Psalm of David, the 107th, Confitemini Domino^ " O 
givQ thanks unto the Lord, for He is gracious : and His mercy 
endureth for ever," I longed for the music and the chanting 
thereof which I had been accustomed to from childhood, and to 
have sung with heart and voice, " O that men would therefore 
praise the Lord for his goodness : and declare the wonders that 
he doeth for the children of men ! " 

The Te Deunt was Dr. Wesley's chant service in F (composed 
for use in the Leeds Parish Church when Wesley was organist 
there), and admirably was it sung by the choir (strong in all 
parts excepting the alto), although the rallentando and Xki'^ pianos 
at the grand jubilant passage to the majestic words, " Holy, holy, 
holy ! Lord God of Sabaoth ! " passed my comprehension, and 
were never dreamt of by the composer himself, who I have 
heard accompany this beautiful work " many a time and oft." 

The choir appeared to consist of about 24 voices, including 
five or six principal, excellent singers, such as Mrs. Gill, 
Mr. Thompson (tenor), Mr. Dan Billington (bass), etc., and for 53 



96 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

years the services of the professional choir have been supple- 
mented by a succession of able amateurs, both ladies and 
gentlemen. A good choir like this should always be well 
balanced in tone, and no one voice heard above another, 
especially if there happens to be voices of unusual excellence 
and power. Sometimes a fine trumpet-like tone in the higher 
register of a bass was heard soaring aloft beyond the rest, and 
anon a sweet tenor note would be prolonged after the others 
had done — as much as to say, " Please observe, I am here ! " 
No doubt it is laudable for the leaders of a choir to imagine 
that the songs of praise would never get to heaven if they didn't 
give them a personal lift in the shape of an extra shout, but 
all that requires modification in the treatment, which should be 
of a careful and judicious character. Mr. Scattergood and 
Mr. Edward Butler (Chairman of the School Board) have also 
for a long period taken deep and practical interest in furthering 
the cause of music in the services and among the congregation. 
Some years ago these gentlemen, in conjunction with Mrs. 
Reynolds (wife of the minister), prepared and published a 
supplement to the Psalmody then in use, in which many fine, 
useful tunes were introduced, and much musical benefit came 
therefrom. 

The organ was built by Mr. Holt in 1842, when the chapel 
was opened. It was what was known as a G organ, with three 
manuals, the swell being an octave shorter than the great and 
choir, and with one stop on the pedal of open wood i6ft. and 
large scale. 

In the year 1865, the organ was remodelled by Messrs. 
Radcliffe and Sagar, being converted into a C organ, and 
rescaled by putting up the diapason stops two or three notes. 
Two stops were added to the pedal, namely, a Bourdon i6ft. 
tone, and an 8ft. flute bass. Some modifications were also made 
in the great organ, chiefly in substituting for the No. i open 
diapason one of greater breadth and fullness of tone, and in 
consolidating the four mixture stops into two. New manual 
and pedal keyboards were at the same time provided ; the hand 
bellows had been discarded for a hydraulic engine some years 
before. In the year 1877, the organ requiring cleaning, the 
opportunity was taken of making further improvements ; 
amongst the rest that of adding an 8ft. open flute to the great 
organ, and an 8ft. " gedact " to the swell, and increasing the 
power of the pedal by a i6ft. reed. 

The organ now contains 34 sounding stops, namely, pedal 
organ 4, great 12, swell 11, choir 7, all with very few exceptions 



METHODIST NEW CONNEXION CHAPEL. 97 

going through the whole keyboard. There are four composition 
pedals to the great, and three to the swell, and five couplers. 

The mechanical arrangements are old-fashioned, and a good 
deal the worse for long wear, and the " touch " heavy ; but it is 
hoped that these defects may shortly be remedied, and other 
improvements made. 

For a short time after the building of this organ Mr. Holt 
acted as organist, and after him Mr. John Hopkinson. The late 
Mr. John Bowling was next appointed, and retained the position 
until 1877, when he was succeeded by the present organist, 
Mr. C. W. Wilkinson, who on the occasion of my visit played as 
an introductory voluntary Smart's delicious Andante in G., from 
The Orgafiisfs Quarterly Journal^ and as a postlude, Bach's 
glorious fugue in E flat on St. Ann's tune. 

The prayers and sermon by Dr. Conder were all given in a 
quiet, earnest way, with clear though not strong voice, and 
distinct enunciation, that lent a charm and persuasiveness to all 
his utterances. 



No. II. — Methodist New Connexion Chapel, 

WooDHOUSE Lane. 

The handsome and commodious Methodist New Connexion 
Chapel, which stands in Woodhouse Lane, not far from the 
statue of the late Alderman Marsden, has been for many years 
the resort of many pious Christian men, women, and children, 
who have derived from the Sabbath and other meetings held 
there, an amount of spiritual comfort and joy, improving and 
blessing their daily lives, and leading them to appreciate and 
value more fully the depth and riches contained in religious 
manifestations, as well as the power and wealth of earnest 
ministerial labours, honestly and fearlessly conducted. Outside 
the pale of this denomination, few persons are perhaps aware 
that the Methodist New Connexion stands first in the order of 
those bodies who separated from the original institution founded 
by the Rev. John Wesley, and was established so far back as 
1797, chiefly by the action of Mr. Alexander Kilham, **a man of 
irreproachable morals, sterling piety, and respectable talent." 

The chief causes, however, which led to the origin of the 
denomination existed in the scriptural views which great 
numbers entertained on the subject of church discipline and 
government ; views which many felt it a duty to advocate and 

G 



98 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

carry into eflfect. The chapel in Woodhouse Lane was built in 
1857, from the plans of Mr. W. Hill, the well-known and highly- 
talented Leeds architect, whose works in other places — notably, 
the Town Hall of Bolton, in Lancashire — have rendered his 
name famous. The building (in the Italian style) is capable of 
holding 1,050 persons, the pews are spacious and comfortable, 
and the preacher can be seen and well heard from every corner 
of the gallery and the body, or ground floor of the building. 
The fine organ (which I will speak of more particularly here- 
after) stands at the east end of the gallery, and its wings extend 
to each side of the chapel. There are two beautiful stained- 
glass windows, one erected to the memory of the late esteemed 
and beloved Alderman Marsden, twice Mayor of Leeds, who was 
a regular attendant at the chapel, and whose respected widow 
and family are worshippers in the same place at the present 
time. The subject of the Marsden window is " The talents : — 
Well done thou good and faithful servant.'' It is beautifully 
designed, and faultlessly executed. Almost as much may be 
said of the other window placed in memory of the Rev. W. N. 
Hall, one of the first missionaries of the M.N.C. to China — 
the subject being " St. Paul's preaching at Athens." 

I will now go on to give some account of the service 
(especially the musical portion thereof) which I attended last 
Sunday week, June 14th, it being, I may add, the occasion of 
the quarterly collection. 

The initiative was taken — as seems to be now the case in 
every place of worship where there is an organ — by the organist 
(Mr. Wm. Holt) playing a very tastefully executed extempor- 
aneous voluntary. This was followed by C. Wesley's hymn 
(130), "My soul inspired with sacred love," sung to the tune 
" Melita," by Dr. Dykes. 

After the hymn followed the prayer of the Minister, of a 
wide and practical character — comprehensive, particular, and 
specially adapted to the congregation and its religious, social, 
and public duties. Then the choir and congregation sang 
Psalm 34, to a double chant by Lawes (one of the old cathedral 
composers), pointed, with many others for use in the chapel, but 
not in a very satisfactory manner ; indeed, this part of the 
musical service requires revision, especially such a division of 
the words as — " I will bless the Lord at | a — 11 | times ; " " My 
mouth shall | be — e | glad ; " and | " the — m | all." Such crude 
work should be expunged. The first lesson, from Isaiah 47, 
having been impressively read by the Minister, the iiith hymn, 
" All praise and thanks to God most high," was sung to a fine 



METHODIST NEW CONNEXION CHAPEL. 99 

old German chorale, but no heartiness was observed in its 
rendition, the tune being evidently too complicated to suit the 
taste of the congregation. 

After the sermon and during the collection, the choir sang, 
with much taste and expression, the quartet from Sir Sterndale 
Bennett's oratorio. The Woman of Samaria^ " God is a spirit." 
The chapel authorities may be congratulated on possessing four 
such excellent vocalists, especially in respect to the Misses 
Tetley, whose charming voices and energetic style can hardly 
be too highly commended. The tenor was Mr. Alf Meek, and 
the bass Mr. Richards. The last hymn was John Wesley's 
" What shall we offer our good Lord ? " sung to a fine German 
tune by Spangenberg. In this as in the other accompanied 
music, the organist certainly dragged the time, and was fre- 
quently behind the singers. Possibly Mr. Holt may not desire 
the tunes to be sung so fast — and my own taste and experience 
rebel against the ignoble pace adopted in many modern churches ; 
— but there is a medium in all things, and I feel sure there 
would be more life and vitality in the hymnody of the M.N.C. 
if the speed of their tunes, etc., was considerably increased. 

Following on the Benediction, the Dead March in Saul 
was played on the organ — not quite so impressively as I have 
heard it — in memory of Mr. Levi Law, an old and respected 
member of the congregation, who died not long ago. The 
people remained in their seats, and only separated after the last 
note had been heard. 

The organ, built by Messrs. W. Holt and Son, of Leeds and 
London, consists of three manuals and 35 stops, four double- 
acting composition pedals to great organ, and two to the 
swell organ. 

This fine instrument was opened by Mr. W. T. Best, of 
Liverpool, in December, i860, on which occasion that dis- 
tinguished organist played an admirable programme of classical 
music, interspersed with vocal selections, well rendered by Miss 
Winder and Miss Annie Anyon, two pupils of mine, and at 
that time among the most popular local professional singers. 

It will have been observed from what I have already written, 
that this chapel possesses excellent and attractive musical 
matMel^ and there is nothing required, excepting the will of the 
authorities and the congregation, to greatly extend the use 
of music — the handmaid of religion — in the promotion of a 
higher service and more intense worship in the sanctuary. It 
must be borne in mind that we live in a very different age now 
to that of thirty and forty years ago, when the only music heard 



lOO SU^DAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

in similar places of worship was some queer twist-about-tune, with 
an absurd repetition of the last strain, and sometimes with broken- 
up words like — " My great Sal — My great Sal — ^y great 
Sal-va-tion," etc. Since music and education generally have 
extended their beneficent influences in every direction, this very 
stupid sort of thing has been, or ought to be, entirely discarded 
— and a more refined, sensible, and appropriate use of the divine 
art introduced. Music, in its highest forms, especially when 
allied to the w^ords of Scripture, appeals strongly to the hidden 
springs of human nature, causing them to vibrate in response to 
its holy call. Why not then, in this beautiful chapel, keep pace 
with the musical attractions introduced into the services of other 
denominations? Anthems, Canticles, offertory sentences, Te 
Deums, Cantatas, etc., are to be had in abundance, and at merely 
a nominal cost — and many of these could be brought forward 
and tried without much effort on the part of the organist, choir, 
ministers, or congregation. 



12.— St. George's Church, Leeds. 

Last year I wrote a series of eleven articles on " Sunday Music 
in Leeds" — chiefly dealing with the established Church — and 
these were duly published in a weekly contemporary. 

It was at first my intention to include St. George's Church, 
and to have placed it, as it had stood for many years, second to 
the Parish Church ; but on attending the service there about 
a year ago, I found the musical portion thereof so very unsatis- 
factory that it was impossible for me, in the interests of truth and 
justice, to speak in favourable terms, and 1 therefore concluded 
that, under all circumstances, it was better to leave St. George's 
alone until it had recovered from the shock it had received when 
its former organist and choir left en masse, and to enable 
the new musical arrangements to be well and fairly tried, before 
1 ventured to say anything at all on the subject. 

Fifteen months having passed since the change was made, I 
deem myself quite at liberty to " review the scene," and to give 
what I hope may be regarded as a not uninteresting or unuseful 
account of the past and present musical services at St. George's 
Church. 

When the edifice was erected nearly fifty years ago, church 
music in Leeds was in a very different state to what it is now ; 
Dr. Hook and Dr. Wesley were not then at the Parish Church, 



ST. GEORGE'S CHURCH. lOI 



the prevailing mode being that which is still adopted in most 
Wesleyan and other dissenting places of worship, — i,e.^ a quartet 
of singers with the organ and organist in the west gallery — the 
parish clerk (who had something to say in those days) being 
placed prominently near the parson in the body of the church. 
This was the accepted style at St. George's when Mr. Robert S. 
Burton was appointed the first organist, and with the assistance 
of four or five professional singers he was enabled to introduce 
and give a capital rendering of a goodly number of services and 
anthems — some of a brilliant ornate character, but all sui ^eneris^ 
more or less excellent. The Preces, Versicles, and Responses, 
according to the Durham Use, were introduced at this time, 
in addition to a new Psalter pointed for chanting by Mr. 
Townend Dibb, whose personal interest in the organist and 
choir then, and for a great many years afterwards, was of 
the greatest value and encouragement to those who were 
desirous of improving the musical portion of the service. 

On Mr. Burton obtaining the Parish Church orgahistship — 
through arrangements with Dr. Hook and Dr. Wesley, and 
which afterwards led to a civil court action at York (Wesley v. 
Burton) — 1 received the appointment of organist and choir-master 
of St. George's, being then a very young man, and considerably 
Mr. Burton^s junior — that was in 1850. 

The Rev. Wm. Sinclair was then, and for a long while beyond, 
the respected Incumbent of the Parish, and it is not too much to 
say that a finer specimen of clerical humanity has rarely been 
seen or known in this ** county of broad acres." He was the 
brother of Archdeacon Sinclair, of Kensington, and the son of 
Sir John Sinclair. 

In his early days Mr., Sinclair was an oflficer in the Indian 
Army, but he left an uncongenial occupation, and entered the 
ministry of the Church of England, in which he soon became a 
burning and a shining light. Though no musician, he and his 
much beloved and respected wife and family took great interest 
in the services at St. George's, and both by personal activity and 
their great influence, they obtained for me that encouragement 
and support which enabled all who took part in the music to 
devote themselves heartily and industriously to render this 
essential department eflScient and devotional. 

The organ was rebuilt twice during my term of oflfice ; once, 
when I first came, by Messrs. Holt, of Leeds and Bradford, and 
fifteen years afterwards by Messrs. Gray and Davison, the 
builders of the Town Hall Organ. It has since been renovated 
in tone and action by Messrs. Wordsworth and Maskell, and 



I02 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

consists of three manuals, Great, Swell, and Choir, and about 30 
Stops — besides a Bourdon and Open i6ft. on the Pedal Organ, 
and several " Pedals of Adjustment," etc. 

There is much effect and beautiful tone in the instrument, but 
this I did not hear so well brought out on Sunday last as I 
expected and desired. The original organ was built by Samuel 
Green, a famous artist (1740- 1796), for Wrexham Abbey Church, 
and three or four ot the stops are embodied in the present choir 
organ, notably the delicious open diapason. 

The swell reeds are of the finest quality, and were made by 
the best hands in Messrs. Gray and Davison's celebrated factory 
— the cornopean being especially pure and brilliant in quality 
and evenness. Although the organ has several defects — chiefly 
in its mechanism — there are many good and valuable parts, 
which I used to try and avail myself of during my term of 
office. For some time after my appointment, the choir consisted 
of five or six of the best professional singers I could find ; 
among them. Miss Atkinson (afterwards Mrs. Fred Buckton, 
now Mrs. Saunders), Miss Helena Walker, Miss Winder, Miss 
Mountain, Miss Louisa Beverley, etc., etc. With the exception 
of the " Priest's part " — never yet attempted at St. George's — 
the service was fully choral, and of an infinitely more musical 
and artistic character than they are now. Mr. Dibb, Mr. J. W. 
Atkinson, and Mr. J. Piper (" Butt's Court " as the firm used 
jocosely to be called) took the deepest interest in the musical 
arrangements, and Mr. Atkinson and I spent days and 
months in getting together the best selection of Hymn Tunes, 
Kyries, and Chants that could be found, and published after- 
wards under the title of '* Sacred Harmony." When the 
contents became known, the work was adopted in many 
churches in various parts of Great Britain, and is still used in 
many " Quires and places where they sing," although discarded, 
I believe, at St. George's, and that bad arrangement of tunes, 
" The Hymnal Companion," has replaced it. After Mr. Sinclair 
resigned, and went to Pullborough, the Rev. Jno. Bloomfield was 
appointed, and under a new Act became the first Vicar of the 
Church. The agitation for surpliced choirs in the West Riding, 
and the discharge of all ** female singers," had now commenced, 
and Mr. Bloomfield, moving with the times, agreed to the 
Churchwardens' suggestion to shift the choir downstairs and 
robe the choristers. But here the fatal mistake was made of not 
then removing the organ to its proper and customaiy position 
near the choir, — ^just precisely on the same principal that an 
accompanying pianoforte must be placed close to the singers at a 



ST. GEORGE S CHURCH. IO3 

concert. Had this been done, I believe we should soon have 
had one of the best choral services in Yorkshire, and, moreover, 
I myself could have satisfactorily and comfortably retained my 
position as organist and choir-master. 

The separation of the organ and organist from the choir was 
fatal to good singing from the first — the latter could not hear 
the former unless played much too loud — and thus the " musical 
troubles " at St. George's commenced. 

The present organist is heavily handicapped in this matter, as 
I was, and it is only due to him to say that no one, however 
clever, can discharge his duties satisfactorily and comfortably 
while so placed — " like a rat in a cage."* 

During over 30 years' services at this church, we were fortunate 
in possessing among our choirmen — at first six, then augmented 
by amateurs to eight and ten — some of the best voices and readers 
to be found in the West Riding. There was hardly a contest at a 
Cathedral or our own Parish Church where the candidate from 
St. George's, Leeds, was unsuccessful ; the choir was often 
preferred to any other for organ openings, lecture illustrations, 
special services in other churches, and it was only four or five 
years ago that I gave a lecture on church music, under the 
auspices of the local clergy, etc., in the large Corn Exchange at 
Doncaster, when the choir (led by young Arthur Thompson) 
sang numerous and difficult illustrations in such a manner as to 
elicit warm and eulogistic encomiums from the Vicar and the 
Press. And this was at a time when many of the St. George's 
people were ** growling at the singing." It was not the singers, 
but the false position they occupied, as I have before explained, 
that constituted the chief and almost the sole cause of the 
defective singing. 

The opening Voluntary, instead of being quiet, melodious, and 
devotional, was a brilliant, noisy, and operatic offertoire by 
Batiste, which the organist, however, played most carefully. 

The Venite and Psalms (5th day) were all sung to easy, 
simple single chants, selected from the Cathedral Psalter, but 
they became tame and monotonous from want of variety in 
power and expression, especially in such verses as " Lift up 
your heads, O ye gates, and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors ! " 
There was, however, a unity of reciting, as formerly, which was 
highly creditable to the choir men and boys, who numbered 
altogether some thirty voices. The first lesson was read by the 
vicar in clear tones, with distinct enunciation and impressiveness. 
Then came the Te Deum, that mighty hymn of St. Ambrose, 

• This has since been altered, and my oft-repeated suggestions carried out. 



I04 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

in which the attributes of the Deity command the adoration of 
the creature, in language sublime, and in spirit and conception 
wonderful. It was given to two double chants by Attwood and 
S. Wesley, and was nicely sung on the whole — but again without 
power, brilliancy, or devotional uplifting. Surely on the first 
Sunday in the month, in a church like St. George's, service 
music might be given to this magnificent Hymn of Praise, the 
settings of which to music by the masters of music in our 
English Church are glorious and elevating, and something 
beyond and above mere village music. 

The Jubilate having been rendered to another single chant, 
the Apostles' Creed was uttered by the curate on one note, and 
by the choir on another ! This sort of thing cannot induce 
either devotion or respect for the Creed, — neither can it advance 
the belief it is designed to inculcate. It should either be read 
by all, or sung by all. After the Creed came the beautiful 
preces and responsals — the Priest saying, " The Lord be with 
you," and the choir and people responding in the heavenly 
harmonies of Tallis — " And with thy spirit." In all these and 
the succeeding choral replies — " And grant us Thy salvation," 
etc., — the organist led in the strain by playing the opening bar 
in single notes on the swell organ, as if he could not trust the choir 
to sing alone — as they ought here — for one single response. The 
proper way is either to accompany throughout, or not play at all. 

There were two hymns — both selected from the "Hymnal 
Companion " — the first. No. 201, 

** To Thy Temple I repair, 
Lord, I love to worship there," 

sung well and heartily by the united choir and congregation to 
Pleyel's fine old German hymn in G. In the fifth verse the 
words are — 

** Through their voice by faith may I 
Hear Thee speaking from the sky." 

After " may I," there was a longer semi-breve than usual, instead 
of a short note, so as not to spoil the sense and continuity of 
the two lines. This is an important point in the rendering of 
hymns, and should be seen to. The Kyrie Eleison in the 
Communion service that followed was an adaptation of a some- 
what unrhythmical phrase of Schubert's, and not at all easy for 
the choir boys to sing correctly in time. This part of the 
service used to be deeply devotional and impressive at St. 
George's, as all the congregation well know. ^ And then, the 
next portion — that grand declaration of faith — the Nicene Creed, 
was, mirabile dictu ! read by the vicar, choir, and congregation. 



ST. George's church. 105 

in all sorts of tones and varied inflexions of voice, without 
organ accompaniment. Surely this is a matter that cannot have 
been considered. Excepting the Te Deum^ there is no pait of 
the Church's ritual so sublime and so suited to musical 
accompaniment and illustration as the Ntcene Creed ; — the great 
masters, Pergolesi, Bach, Haydnj Mozart, Beethoven, and our 
own English writers, Wesley, Smart, Goss, etc., have each and 
all opened out their musical souls to give the grandest expression 
to this Creed ; — to the Sursunt Corda ; — the Gloria in Excelsis 
Deo, etc., all in the Communion, and Post Communion Service, 
in which, at St. George's Church, not a note of music is heard, 
even on high days ! Here again there should be reformation or 
contentment to rest satisfied with belonging to some of the 
least important places of worship in Leeds. 

Following on the Creed was the old Sacramental Hymn, 
" My God, and is Thy table spread," sung to the favourite 
Rockingham, in triple time. The congregation joined heartily 
with the choir in giving a powerful exposition of this familiar 
Hymn, but, at the same time, it was not very grateful to 
educated ears to listen to the division of the words in the fifth 
verse, " Why are its boun — ties," and in the sixth verse, " O let 
Thy Ta — ble honoured be." If anyone will sing the tune over 
to these words, they will at once perceive the force of my 
objection, an objection which used to be obviated by making a 
half-closed, or interrupted cadence at the end of the first strain 
in the tune to the first line of words. 

In the foregoing I have only chronicled the mode and execu- 
tion of the service at St. George's as I heard it, and I am sure 
that what I have said is the truth, and nothing but the truth, 
though not quite "the whole truth." The old Portuguese 
proverb says — " When you speak, say the truth, but the truth 
need not always be told;" and so with St. George's, about which, 
and my own connection therewith, more will be written hereafter 
by other pens than mine. For myself, the remembrance of 
happy, prosperous days, chiefly resulting from the kindness, 
generosity, and friendship of those in power at this Church 
during a period of thirty years, will never be eff*aced from 
my memory, so long as that memory lasts ; but that cannot be 
very far off*. " There were giants in those days ; " aye, giants 
who were as gentle, loving, and considerate, as they were rich, 
wise, and powerful ; and amongst those of the congregation who 
were first and foremost in all good works, and especially in 
promoting the excellence of its musical services, I remember 
well the names of Beckett, Gott, Atkinson, Dibb, Tottie, Sykes, 



Io6 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

Hey, Heaton, Nelson, Irwin, Stables, Braithwaite, Kirkby, 
Ellershaw, Lambert, Beardshaw, Eyres, Rider, Briggs, Asquith, 
Stallard, Ramsbottom, Depledge, Baxter, Greenwood, Kershaw, 
Kitson, Ingham, Nicholls, Wilcocks, Brown, Stockdale, Lampen, 
Fourness, and many others whom I cannot call to mind. And 
then there were those excellent, unselfish, high-minded Vicars, 
the Reverends John Bloomfield and S. Adams, both having 
musical families, and all appreciating the " divine art *' and its 
powerful influence, when properly applied in the due rendition 
of divine service. Tout cela cliange ! 

It was about Christmas-time in 1883, when Churchwardens 
Robinson and Law Atkinson, in conjunction with the Vicar 
(Mr. Lamb), resolved to give the six professional members of 
the choir three months' notice to terminate their engagements. 
They did not know the addresses of several, so they sent for 
them into the choir vestry, and asked where they lived. Some 
of the older members, having a lively recollection of the 
generosity and thoughtful ness of Mr. Dibb, and other former 
Churchwardens at Christmas-time, at once jumped to the 
conclusion (so I was told) that the address was wanted to enable 
the new wardens to send a goose, or a crop of beef as a Christ- 
mas box, and one said jocosely — " You'll excuse me, sir, but my 
wife and me would prefer a turkey this time ! " Sure enough in 
a day or two there came a letter signed by the Vicar and 
wardens not announcing the Christmas present of beef or fowl, 
but coldly giving each notice to quit at the end of three months ! 

Dr. S. Henry Ramsbotham, himself an accomplished musician, 
spent a great deal of time, labour, and money in connection with 
the choir and music of St. George's Church, and 1 should be 
wanting in common courtesy and good feeling did I not acknow- 
ledge with gratitude the kindness, attention, and able assistance 
he invariably gave to me — willingly and cheerfully — on all 
occasions ; and I may also add that the schoolmaster, Mr. Turner, 
an able bass singer, was always kind and considerate towards 
myself and the choir. Before I say " Good bye " to the organ 
and music in St. George's Church, whose doors, I fear, I shall 
never again darken, I wish to publicly thank Mr. Edwin Oldroyd, 
and all the members of the late choir, for their invariable kind- 
ness to me, and for the handsome address and testimonial they 
alone gave to me on my retirement from St. George's after my 
over thirty years' duty in the service of that church, and I will 
only conclude in appropriate lines known to some of us — 

** Happy have we met, 
Happy have we been, 
Happy may we part, 
Happy meet again." 



SOUTH PARADE CHAPEL. I07 

No. 13. — South Parade Chapel» Leeds. 

" The Baptist Churches of Leeds are not so strong and 
numerous as in some other places," writes one of its esteemed 
members ; and this fact is much to be regretted, as the denomi- 
nation is everywhere felt to be a strong influence for good, and 
an organisation worthy of the highest Christian zeal and self- 
sacrificing piety. 

More than one hundred years ago (January, 1779) part of the 
Old Assembly Rooms, in Kirkgate, was fitted up and opened for 
public worship, when the R^v. Dr. Fawcett preached a powerful 
and clever sermon from the words, " What do these feeble 
Jews ? " Shortly afterwards sixteen persons were immersed in 
the River Aire at Nether Mills, and were formed into a church. 
In 1 78 1 a stone chapel was completed in St. Peter's Square, and 
dedicated to the service of the denomination, the Rev. Thomas 
Langdon becoming its first and most popular pastor. Just 
forty-five years later, the handsome and commodious chapel in 
South Parade was opened, the Rev. Dr. Marshaman preaching 
in the morning, the Rev. S. Saunders in the afternoon, and the 
Rev. Dr. Raffles in the evening. The congregations were over- 
flowing, and the collections amounted to ;£220. In 1847, the 
Rev. Robert K. Brewer, with whom I was personally acquainted 
during his residence in Leeds, succeeded to the pastorate of Mr. 
Giles. Subsequently Dr. Brewer (he was, I believe, a Doctor of 
Music, and not of Divinity) withdrew from South Parade Chapel, 
and formed " a new interest," — first in a chapel in Great George's 
Street ; and on its being required to make room for the new 
Infirmary, the present convenient building in Woodhouse Lane, 
called Blenheim Chapel. 

One of the most noted and popular of all the pastors was the 
Rev. William Best, B.A., who accepted the cordial and 
unanimous invitation of the church in 1863, and remained for 
twelve years. 

With reference to my visit to South Parade Chapel last 
Sunday, July 19th, I wish simply to describe (as I have done 
with other churches) what I heard, and to give my own individual 
opinion thereon, more especially as regards the music, and its 
use and influence in public worship. Without the smallest 
doubt or question, that the handmaid of religion represented by 
St. Cecilia is daily taking a more extensive and a more important 
part in the service of the sanctuary, and those ministers, 
wardens, deacons, sidesmen, and others, holding authority in the 
various churches, who do not recognize this fact, are neglecting 



Io8 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

a plain and necessary duty which will help to get the edifices filled 
with devout crowds of worshippers, and to provide and make 
popular a system of music, such as the humblest can join in, 
while it should be calculated, not for the mere amusement of 
man, but for the pure worship of God. I must candidly say that 
I think better music ought to be provided in South Parade 
Chapel than what 1 heard last Sunday ; there is a lack of life, 
spirit, power, character, and animation, very much indeed to be 
desired. 

The hymns were all gems of Sacred Poetry, and sung to good 
music — but the singing was not hearty, though general. 

The opening hymn, James Montgomery's well-known 

** Songs of Praise, the angels sang, 
Heaven with hallelujahs rang," 

spoke at once to the hearts of all, and told us once more of the 
glories of music and of the * Songs of Praise to sing above : " — 
And then how beautiful the thought in the last verse — 

" Borne on their latest breath, 
Songs of praise shall conquer death, 
Then, amidst eternal joy, 
Songs of praise their powers employ.** 

The second hymn was F. W. Faber's undying poem — 



** Hark, hark, my soul ! angelic songs are swelling, 
O'er earth's green fields and ocean's wave-beat shore, 



»> 



wedded to the beautiful music of the late Henry Smart, whose 
memory we cherish in Leeds with so much affection and respect. 
After a second prayer, in which the wants, wishes, and 
wickedness of all seemed to be thought of, there was another 
good hymn with a fine tune — 

** O wherefore. Lord, doth Thy dear praise 

But tremble on my tongue? 
Why lack my lips sweet skill to raise 

A full triumphant song? 

And then came the .sermon — an admirable, practical discourse 
on the text found in the nth chapter of the Hebrews, verse 27 — 
" He endured as seeing Him who is invisible." 

In conclusion, I may add that amongst the most esteemed 
members of the Baptist community in Leeds, are Messrs. John 
Barran, M.P., Jno. Barran, Junr., J. P., Alfred Barran, Councillor 
lUingworth, Joseph Town, Jno. Town, W. R. Bilbrough, 
G. Bingley, etc., etc. 



ST. chad's CHURC.H. IO9 

No. 14. — St. Chad's Church, Far Headingley, Leeds. 

** The churches of our land, 
How beautiful they stand ! " 

These old cherished lines occurred to me as I neared St. 
Chad's Church on the morning of the Second Sunday in Advent. 
The sweet music of the bells chiming the people to prayer ; the 
bright sunshine and the keen northern air ; the happy cawing of 
the jackdaws about the tower ; the procession, as I entered the 
edifice, of the priests and white-robed choir ; and the deep, rich, 
solemn tones of the beautiful organ — each and all made an 
impression on my mind which will not easily be lost or 
unremembered. 

This remarkably fine church was built and endowed at the 
sole cost of Sir Edmund Beckett, Bart., Q.C., and his father. 
The sacred edifice, as well as the adjacent invaluable burial 
ground, were both consecrated by the late Bishop Bickersteth 
on January nth, 1868. The style of architecture may be 
described as that of the 14th century. The reredos is of very 
excellent design ; the pulpit, too, is beautifully carved, and 
supported on shafts, and the foliated capitals of the various 
columns display a charming variety of conception and execution. 
The plan of the church comprises five bays and a five-side 
apse, the side aisles being continued right round the chancel, 
forming an ambulatory. The tower — one of fine, striking pro- 
portions — is placed at the west end. The proportions of the 
building are admirably balanced, the length being 137 feet, the 
width 61 feet, and the height from floor to roof, 57 feet. 
Surmounting the tower is a spire 1 86 feet high ; there is a noble 
peal of eight bells, and a clock having the Westminster chimes. 
There are several finely executed stained glass windows, those 
in the clerestory of the apse by Hardman, of Birmingham, 
representing North of England Saints, and others, to the 
memory of John Metcalfe Smith, Esquire, of Kirkstall Grange ; 
G. T. Young, Esquire, Churchwarden, and deceased Sunday 
School teachers and pupils. There is likewise a beautiful 
window at the extreme east end by Taives and Bangund. I 
may also mention two extremely handsome brass gas standards 
placed within the sacrarium, presented to the church by Mrs. 
George Watson, of West Grove, Far Headingley. 

The sacrarium is paved with encaustic tiles, the gift of Alf 
Cooke, Esq., J. P., together with the side desk of the clergy, and 
the Bishop's chair. 

The organ, which is placed on the north side of the chancel, 



no SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

and exhibits eight feet metal pipes in three separate arches, was 
built by Francis Booth, of Wakefield, and opened by Mr. F. W. 
Hird, of Leeds, in 1869. 

The present vicar, who was instituted on the day of the 
church's consecration, is the Rev. Thomas Cartwright Smyth, 
D.D., LL.D., of Jesus College, Cambridge ; and the curate is the 
Rev. Marshall George Vine, B.A., of Hertford College, Oxford. 
The choir, seated of course in appropriate stalls near the chancel, 
consists of sixteen boys, three altps (not sufficient), three tenors, 
and five basses. Six of the men are paid, and the boys get 
attendance pence. The services on Sunday morning and 
evening, and on Fridays, are strictly choral. Tallis's Preces, 
Versicles, Responses, etc. (reduced from four to five voices by 
Barnby), with the priest's part intoned throughout, being 
invariably used. 

The" service was inaugurated by an admirable performance of 
Dr. Wesley's famous Voluntary in G, composed for an organ 
recital at the Agricultural Hall many years ago. Then followed 
the usual order of the Church's prayer and praise, the priest's 
part being most admirably and distinctly intoned in clear sweet 
tones by the curate, the Rev. Marshall George Vine The 
confession, with its pretty Ely cadences (not Tallis, but a long 
way after that sublime composer), was given in a quiet, 
devotional tone, but somewhat drawled and dragged, an error 
which, I think, ought to be rectified, both at St. Chad's and in 
other churches. The general responses were sung in better 
time, and with a considerable amount of fervid expression, the 
balance of voices (barring the insufficiency of altos) being 
excellent. The Venite^ Psalms, and Canticles were all sung to 
chants, chiefly single, the old ones by Dr. Alcock, Dr. Hayes, 
and Matthews, being by far the best. I must confess that while 
modern musicians can undoubtedly hold their own in the 
composition of services, anthems, and eucharistic music, I fear 
we are all very much behind the ancients in the matter of chants. 
The choicest examples of our early Anglo-Catholic music by 
composers like Tallis, Byrd, Blow, Purcell, Croft, Gibbons, 
Farrant, Cooke, Crotch, Langdon, Weldon, Turner, Hayes, 
Alcock, etc., are emphatically pronounced in their individuality 
and ecclesiastical character. The melody is sweet, but simple, 
the harmony strong ; the handicraft, or workmanship of these 
writers came of a sublime temperament, and are of such a sober, 
solemn, devout character, as ought only to be admitted into 
the Sanctuary of God, and adopted in setting forth His most 
worthy praise. On the other hand, most modern chants are 



ST. chad's church. Ill 

deficient in dignity and solidity, often chromatic, they are but 
too frequently wanting in the diatonic strength of their elders. 
They have a " pretty air," but lack that grave, but cheerful, 
solemn, firm, and masculine style calculated to foster a calm, 
earnest, and permanent devotion. 

The Venite at St. Chad's was sung with the required exulta- 
tion ; — in unison, the first six verses, then harmony to the end — 
a very good and effective plan. In Psalm 30, Exaltabo te 
Domine^ Hayes's fine old chant had a major jubilant rendering 
up to the /th verse — " Thou didst turn Thy face from me, and I 
was troubled," when the minor was introduced with proper, 
expressive effect, the major being joyfully re-introduced at the 
1 2th verse, "Thou hast turned my heaviness into joy; Thou 
hast put off my sackcloth, and girded me with gladness." 
Psalm 31. In ie, Domine^ speravi^ was wedded to a beautiful 
old double chant by Matthews, its expressive strains bringing 
forcibly to my mind the days of " Auld Lang Syne " when 
I used to sing it in the choir of Exeter Cathedral, where it was 
an especial favourite of my distinguished master — Dr. Samuel 
Sebastian Wesley. 

The Te Deum and Benedictus were sung to Various chants by 
Oakley, Hopkins, Barnby, and Turle, that by the latter being 
most suitable and excellent. There was no change of music in 
the Te Deum laudamuSy until the verse " Vouchsafe, O Lord, to 
keep us this day without sin," was reached, and then another 
change, only two verses from the end. This is an unusual plan 
— the generally accepted one being to give a chant to each of 
the well-known three divisions of this grand old canticle of 
S. Ambrose, at the commencement, then at verse 16, " When 
Thou tookest upon Thee to deliver man," and again at the 
glorious burst of praise, verse 24, " Day by day, we magnify 
Thee, and we worship Thy name, ever world without end." 

At the end of the Benedictus^ to the comforting words, " Guide 
our feet into the way of peace," the practice first introduced into 
the rendering of this canticle at St. George's Church, Leeds, 
some years ago, of singing the verse gradually slower and softer 
to the end, had a very beautiful effect, and is now almost 
universally adopted. The Cathedral Psalter and Chant-book 
are always used at St. Chad's, and I don't know of any better 
Psalter, though I certainly think that the collection of chants 
might be much improved — many requiring elimination and 
substitution. 

The hymns are all selected from " Ancient and Modern," and 
while this book is admitted to contain generally a fine and varied 



112 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

collection of both words and music, there is, nevertheless, in the 
judgment of many whose opinions are entitled to respectful 
consideration, great room for improvement by the addition of 
favourite hymns and tunes on the one hand, and on the other by 
the repudiation and deposition of those (some having a strong 
Romish odour about them) which are highly objectionable to 
many conscientious church-goers. 

I will not specify here what I personally object to in " Hymns 
Ancient and Modern," but I may be permitted to say that such 
beautiful favourite hymns as " Saviour, breathe an evening 
blessing," " Glorious things of Thee are spoken," and Bishop 
Heber's " Brightest and best," ought not to have been omitted — 
to say nothing of many others that could be named. Let us 
hope, therefore, that one of these fine days the proprietors of 
this popular work will see their way to another searching revision, 
and that more than one person for the words, and a single 
individual for the music, should be consulted as to its general 
contents. 

The hymns sung at St. Chad's on the morning of my visit 
(Dec. 6th) were Nos. 268 (" Ye servants of the Lord'') and 206 
(" That day of wrath "). The tune to the first was " Narenza," 
a bold short metre of the German chorale school, and in which 
the congregation joined the choir with great heartiness and 
devotional effect. The second would have been much better had 
it been sung to Luther's hymn, or any other rather than that 
dismal old minor Scotch tune, " Abbotsford," in which the 
congregation did not, and could not join, though some brave 
efforts were made by more than one lady in the neighbourhood 
of the pew I sat in. I noticed that all the " Amens " were sung 
piano, a practice which is right enough when the hymn, prayer, 
or psalm, is penitential ; but when it is jubilant, or cheerful, 
then, I venture to say, the Amen should be louder, and of a 
corresponding character. 

Not the least interesting part of the service was the office of 
the Holy Communion, Woodward's music being sung very 
sweetly by the choir, especially the Kyrie Eleison, The Credo 
being more ambitious and more difficult, fell a little short of the 
required accuracy and expression. 

Taken altogether, the services at St. Chad's are, like the edifice 
itself, beautiful and impressive. There is no meretricious work 
or practice of any kind ; no elaborate expansions and develop- 
ments either of the music, or any part of the ritual ; all is 
conducted with " decency and order ; " all is evidently done with 
the one sole object of promoting the glory of God and the 



AN OPEN-AIR ORATORIO. II 3 

welfare of His Church. No doubt much, very much, is due to 
the indefatigable labours of the highly esteemed and learned 
vicar and his curate, Mr. Vine ; and there is this advantage to 
the church's service : both possess a love and a fair knowledge, 
of music, both strenuously oppose what I regret to say I have 
witnessed in some churches — bits of maudlin affectation and 
extravagancy, mischievous vagaries and extraordinary bad taste, 
not unmixed with secularities or dramatic effects, calculated to 
interfere with the sober devotions of the Church, and to lower 
the high character of her glorious services. 

Nor must I omit here to notice the valuable services of 
Mr. John Shaw the able organist and choir-master. Mr. Shaw 
comes of a musical family — his father was for many years the 
leading contra-bassist in our local orchestras, and two, if not 
three, of his brothers are clever, professional Yorkshire organists. 
Mr. John Shaw does not follow music as a profession, but he 
is certainly one of the ablest amateurs I have heard at the organ 
in Yorkshire. He spares no pains to train his choir boys, who, 
if they do not always phrase well, and divide their words 
properly in breathing, sing sweetly, and in tune. Since his 
appointment, he has introduced Te Deums by Wesley, Smart, 
Dykes, etc., and anthems and Credos by other distinguished 
composers of Church Music. 



No. 15. — An Open-air Oratorio. 

The Sunday performances of sacred music which have been 
given in the open air in and about Leeds during the last 
summer, and on previous occasions, deserve more than the 
passing notices they obtain in the local daily papers, not only on 
account of their intrinsic musical merits, but also for their 
benevolent pecuniary object, all profits being generally devoted 
to the Leeds Medical Charities. And as the artizans and 
working people of this great town of Leeds, with its one-third 
of a million inhabitants, arc the chief recipients of the splendid, 
numerous, invaluable hospitals which abound in Leeds, and in 
which the highest medical skill is available, no better object could 
G"g2igG their own as well as their sympathetic supporters* earnest 
attention than the organization of concerts of sacred music 
similar to that which I had the pleasure to attend on Sunday 
afternoon, the 30th ultimo, in the " Black Bull " field at Hunslet. 
The people who thronged in thousands on this occasion to 

H 



114 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

hear the ever-attractive strains of their favourite musical god, 
Handel, were resolved to enjoy themselves, whether or no. 

The Yorkshireman's love of music has been notorious in all 
ages — especially in the West Riding. So long ago as the 
beginning of the i6th century, it was written that** one who 
tried to pass for a shoemaker in a musical town of West 
Yorkshire was detected as an impostor, because he could neither 
sing, sound the trumpet, play the flute, nor reckon up his tools 
in rhyme." Indeed, at that time, tinkers sang catches ; milk- 
maids warbled ballads ; carters whistled ; each trade — and even 
the beggars — had their special songs. The base-viol hung in the 
parlour for the amusement of waiting visitors ; and the lute, 
cittern, and virginals, for the amusement of waiting customers, 
were the necessary furniture of the barber's shop. They had 
music at dinner, music at supper, music at weddings, music at 
funerals, music at night, music at dawn, music at work, and 
music at play. He who felt not in some degree its influence, 
was viewed as a morose, unsocial being, whose converse ought 
to be shunned, and regarded with suspicion and distrust. It has 
been very much the same in the years that have passed since 
that time, and there is not a severely wide difference in the 
present day — the love and cultivation of music being almost 
universal. The Yorkshireman loves the voice of melody, and 
in his heart says — 

** Ijtt harmony from her enchanting shell 

Pour the sweet note that soothes afflictions* sigh ; 
Now let the full chord's deep modulation swell, 
Now wake the joy inspiring symphony." 

The band at Hunslet comprised about sixty, chiefly strings, 
the brass and wood instruments, which were mostly wanted 
being conspicuous by their absence, — an omission that should 
be rectified on future occasions. The chorus numbered nearly 
four hundred, the basses, as usual in Yorkshire, being the most 
powerful, the altos the most penetrating, many of the latter 
possessing quite a gimlet tone. Of the sopranos, they all looked 
very nice, and attended earnestly to their work, but they lacked 
the strength we are used to in Leeds. Of the smooth-toned 
tenors, I may say that the experienced ones did well, but the 
novices fell far short of efficiency. Altogether, however, there 
was a fair representation of a good scratch chorus and band, and 
what each individual member lacked in knowledge and experi- 
ence, was fully made up in earnest enthusiasm and a love for the 
work in hand. 

Unfortunately, I had been misinformed as to the time the 
performance began, and I therefore heard only half of the 



AN OPEN-AIR ORATORIO. II 5 

selections. These, however, were sufficient to give me an idea 
of the whole. 

For the chorus at Hunslet, there was a long raised platform 
placed against the back of a large mill, or warehouse, from 
whose confined and iron-caged windows eager music listeners 
were thrusting their music-filled heads, and, in some cases, 
unwashed hands The band was on the ground or basement, 
the performers standing on wood planks. The conductor (Mr. 
J. Haywood) was placed in a tolerably elevated position in front 
of his musical army, and it is only bare justice to him to say 
that he wielded the baton with remarkable care and ability, and 
succeeded in keeping his heterogeneous forces well in hand, and 
entirely under his control. The crowd being great, I had some 
difficulty in threading my way nearer to the performers ; at last, 
1 found by an extra payment, that 1 had landed immediately 
under the bass singers, and was just in time to have roared 
into my ears the fine diatonic Gregorian passage, " For the 
mouth of the Lord hath sp6ken it " — with its grand rise of a 
major second on the syllable " spo." Then followed a series of 
other choruses from the Messiah^ all, with one exception, "And 
with His stripes," where there was a false start, and a " hark- 
back,'' being sung with decision, care, and good effect. At the 
request of Councillor Alf Cooke,* who takes an earnest and 
practical interest in all these musical and other artistic gather- 
ings, the band of the ist West York Artillery, with much 
sweetness and expression, played " The Lost Chord," under the 
able and experienced leading of Mr. Charles Ingledew, and then 
the players and singers start again, and with tones loud and clear 
pour forth the strains of the grand " Hallelujah ! for the Lord 
God omnipotent reigneth," the whole of that immense mass of 
artisan people listening with a deep, significant silence, worthy of 
the divine utterances they were hearing and absorbing. Surely 
here, I thought, music is fulfilling its glorious mission, and is 
helping to soothe and refine, if not to regenerate the world ! 
All the preaching from all the eloquent divines in Christendom 
would not have touched the hearts of ten thousand people as 
did that sublime paean of thanksgiving, ** Hallelujah, King of 
kings, and Lord of lords ! " with its awe-inspiring sudden silence 
near the end, and then the majestic, divine adagio for the close ! 
Handel can, indeed, as Beethoven said, " strike, when he wills, 
like a thunderbolt," and to no composer are we indebted more 
than to the immortal Saxon, whose music we in Yorkshire know 
and love so well. 



Now the esteemed Alderman Cooke, J. P. 



Il6 SUNDAY MUSICAL SERVICES IN LEEDS. 

But other composers were not forgotten at Hunslet — the 
favourite oratorio, The Creation — with its glorious choruses, 
" Awake the Harp," ** The Heavens are Telling," and " Achieved 
is the glorious work/' being requisitioned, together with selections 
from Mozart's Twelfth Mass. for the delectation of the crowded 
audience. Two stirring, familiar hymns, " O worship the 
King, all glorious above," to Hanover tune ; and the Old 
Hundredth Psalm — in which all the people joined the band 
and chorus, and sang with heart and soul the praises of their 
God and King in terminating an afternoon's performance of 
classical music in the open air. 

I ought to mention that the collection in the sheets and boxes 
at Hunslet on Infirmary Sunday amounted to ^jZ os. lod., 
which, after deducting the necessary expenses of printing, 
advertising, etc., left a clear balance of £^6 ys. 2d., and this 
sum has been duly handed over to the indefatigable Treasurer 
to the Infirmary, Mr. Benson Jowitt, who has gratefully 
acknowledged the same. 

It need scarcely be said that such gatherings are not organised 
and developed without the aid of willing, disinterested workers, 
and I think I ought here to conclude this notice by giving the 
names of the respected Hunslet Executive Committee :-^ 

President, Mr. Jas. Gozney ; Vice-President, Councillor 
Cooke ; Treasurer, Mr. J. VV. Walker ; Conductor, Mr. J. W. 
Haywood ; Leader of Band, Mr. Chas. Dyson ; and Messfs. 
Myers, Gilston, Puffitt Bruce, Squire, (E. Lancaster as accom- 
panist on the harmonium), Barrass, Rhodes, Rev. F. Smith, 
and the Hon. Sees., H. Snowden and J. Howe. 

1885. 



117 



MUSIC, ETC., IN NORTH WALES. 

At the recent Chester Festival, I hear that one half of the 
visitors were from Wales, or Welsh born. The annual 
Eisteddfod takes place next week at Wrexham, where there will 
be the usual trial of skill in Bardic recitations, choral singing, 
brass band performances, etc., as well as grand concerts, at which 
oratorios will be given with distinguished Jjrincipal vocalists and 
full band and chorus. 

I am assured by the head of one of the leading families and 
landowners in the Principality that, as a rule, very little is 
thought of the Bardic (my friend sarcastically said " barbaric ") 
recitations, improvisations, poetic and prosaic in the Welsh 
language, and that the attendance at these exhibitions is usually 
of the most meagre description, whilst at the concerts where 
Madame Edith Wynne, Madame Patey, Mr. Lloyd, and Signor 
Foli, etc., sing, all classes flock in thousands — every place is 
previously taken, and enthusiasm is often carried to a wild 
pitch of excitement with the finished vocalisation of these 
accomplished metropolitan artists. 

"When an Eisteddfod was given at the Albert Hall, in 
London,'* added my intelligent friend, "very few Welshmen 
attended, but they availed themselves of the cheap trips (going 
to and from town for a few shillings) and attended every 
exhibition, theatre, and show place they had time for, returning 
to their own homes without having once been to the performances 
which were given to show Englishmen what great musical and 
poetical talents the Principality could produce." 

" W^hat we want in Wales," said another clever amateur, " is 
an annual musical festival on a similar scale to those splendid 
gatherings you have in England — one in North, the other in 
South Wales ; and also a resident orchestra, as well as more 
competent and well-educated professors or teachers of milsic. 
At present there is no existing band able to play satisfactorily 
the instrumental portions of a standard oratorio, and when Dr. 
Ronald Rogers, of Bangor (an Englishman, by the way), requires 
an orchestra, he is obliged, at an expense of £$o or £60, to 
send to Manchester or Liverpool for the necessary aid." 



Il8 MUSIC, ETC., IN NORTH WALES. 

In many of the churches I have visited in North Wales — 
Denbigh, Corwen, Llangollen, Dolgelly, Barmouth, etc., there 
are excellent, though from my own point of view, rather small 
organs, but rarely an organist capable of playing more than 
hymn tunes and easy voluntaries — pedaling being frequently 
altogether ignored. As a proof, however, of the prevailing 
inherent love of music — organ music too — it may be mentioned 
that at the four or five recitals I have had the pleasure to give in 
these parts, '' high, low, rich, and poor, one with another," have 
attended in large numbers, and have appeared to be much 
delighted with my efforts to let them hear something more 
than the instrumental music which they are but too much 
accustomed to. 

Some of the county gentry have excellent chamber organs in 
their mansions, and, in several instances, the ** head of the 
establishment '' (the lady . of course) not only indulges in 
" organic scintillations " for the pleasure and benefit of the 
whole household, but she takes a warm interest in the village 
choir, and presides on Sundays at the Church services. It is 
thus at the beautiful residence at RCig, of the Honourable C. H. 
Wynn, situate in a picturesque spot, about a mile from Corwen, 
where, in the library, there is a sweet-toned organ of about ten 
stops and a full set of pedals. 

On Sunday last, after playing at' the service conducted by 
Canon Richardson, rector of Corwen, in the ancient and beauti- 
ful chapel, or church, which boasts of a most interesting painted 
ceiling, carved wood arches, stained-glass windows, and other 
relics of the past, I proceeded, at the invitation of the " Lord of 
RCig," to refresh the inner man with luncheon at the hall, and, 
after viewing the extensive gardens, greenhouses, etc., returned 
to the library, and the household, servants, etc., being gathered 
together, I was delighted to find them all some pleasure by 
playing on the organ for nearly an hour. 



At the historically famous Parish Church of Corwen, dedicated 
to Mael and Sulien, in which there is a new organ built by 
Casson and Co., of Denbigh, I gave two recitals, on Friday 
afternoon and evening, to large congregations, among the most 
interested of my hearers being Sir Theodore Martin (the Prince 
Consort's famous biographer) and Lady Martin, etc. This 
church is one of the most interesting in Wales. Inside there is 
a curious monument to the memory of Jorwerth Sulien, one of 
its ancient vicars. This monument has been said to refer to 



MUSIC, ETC., IN NORTH WALES. II9 

Saint Sulien himself, " the godliest man and greatest clerke in 
all Wales," but this is not correct. Pennant says that "the 
saint has his well here, and is patron of the church." We 
suppose the well he alludes to is the one near Rhg Chapel (i ^m. 
from Corwen, and interesting to the antiquary;, on the north- 
west side of the Dee, Ffynnon Sulien or Sulien's Well. It was 
once even more sacred than the Dee, and it is said that in olden 
time water was fetched from it, over the river, to fill the 
baptismal font at Corwen. Visitors to the churchyard are 
shown a rude cross cut in a stone which now forms the lintel of 
the priest's door, and this of course is the true mark of Owen 
Glyndwr's dagger, which he threw from the rock behind the 
church. Another stone, " Carreg of Big-yn-y Foch Rewlyd," is 
now built into the north porch, and to this appertains a tradition. 
** We are told that all attempts to build the church in any other 
place were frustrated by the influence of certain adverse powers, 
till the founders, warned in a vision, were directed to the spot 
where the pillar stood." Similar tales are told of other Welsh 
churches, notably one about a mile from Corwen, Llangar 
Church, on the road to Cynwyd. A third stone, one of the old 
crosses, standing in the churchyard to the west of the building, 
also bears the mark of a dagger, which local tradition associates 
with the redoubtable Owen ; but it is more interesting to the 
antiquary for the " cup-markings " (?) on the base of the pedestal. 



At the kind invitation of Sir Theodore Martin, I went to see 
his lovely residence, Bryntysilio, situated on an eminence a 
short distance above Llangollen. We (Dr. Walker and I) took 
the train to Berwyn btation, a picturesque spot, surpassed by 
few in Wales. There I saw the " Parting of the Waters," an 
artificial horse-shoe fall, where the river Dee feeds the canal, and 
where immediately beyond is Llantysilio Church, built in a truly 
beautiful situation. On reaching the terrace in front of th? 
house the view is indescribably lovely — I ought rather to say 
the viewSy for turn where you will every few steps reveal new 
beauties, new charms, and language becomes powerless to 
describe one half of what can be seen there. Sir Theodore and 
his distinguished, accomplished wife {n^e Helen Faucit) received 
us with the courtesy and kindness which are so characteristic of 
the highly intellectual and well-bred upper classes of Great 
Britain, and it was not long before the elegant scholar and 
writer took the trouble to show and explain to his visitors the 
manifold beauties of his invaluable pictures, etchings, and other 



I20 MUSIC, ETC., IN NORTH WALES. 

valuable works of art. These are hung in profusion on the walls 
of nearly every room in the house, especially in Sir Theodore's 
study and Lady Martin's boudoir. From the windows of each 
there is an exquisite view of the gardens, the grand flowing, 
roaring river, and the heath-clad mountains. 

After a recherche luncheon we were ushered into the 
charmingly and artistically-decorated drawing-room, where, at 
the request of one of the lady visitors (Mrs. Thorpe), I had the 
pleasure to play on a fine-toned *' Collard and Collard *' 
pianoforte some of Mendelssohn's Leider ohne worte and 
Chopin's Mazurkas, Once more we go on to the terrace and 
through the gardens, from whence there are ever-varying views 
of the valley, the river, and the mountains. It was impossible 
not to call to mind Professor Wilson's remark to Cyrus 
Redding : — " Did you ever see anything so beautiful as a 
Welsh valley ? We have higher mountains in Scotland, finer 
scenery about the more beautiful English lakes, though the 
mountains are not quite so high as in Wales, but neither the 
North of England nor Scotland — no, nor all Switzerland — can 
exhibit anything so tranquil, romantic, snug, and beautiful as a 
Welsh valley. There is nothing like it, I believe, in the world." 



121 



BLIND MUSICIANS. 



No. I. — Galileo, Homer, Milton, Stanley, etc. 

It is an interesting but accountable fact that many great 
and eminent persons have either been born blind, or deprived of 
sight in their young days. This is explained and amplified in 
the statistics of the science of Typhlology by Mr. Hanks Levy, 
in whose clever book, "Blindness and the Blind," a full and 
particular history is given of the agents and causes of a loss 
of vision — small-pox being generally assigned as the chief 
aggressor. Those who possess sight and know not its inestim- 
able value, cannot fully estimate the wondrous power and work 
thereof, for sight is not only the principal sense through which 
information is obtained, but it is also a very powerful agent in 
re-invigorating man after mental and physical exhaustion. Let 
the student, or the artisan, who has been engaged for a long 
time in continuous exertion, observe the effect on his feelings 
exercised by his looking for a few minutes into a bustling 
thoroughfare. The variety of colour, form, position, and 
incident, unite to exert on his mind a most pleasing sense of 
re-invigoration. 

Sight is indeed a great promoter of health and happiness. 
Even when the range of vision is confined to a small room, the 
mind is often cleared and the imagination steadied by merely 
looking round the apartment. Doubtless this action is so 
common that persons are not aware of its effect ; they glance at 
objects around them, and receive benefit, just as they inspire air 
to maintain life, and so little is thought of the latter operation, 
it is no wonder that the former passes unrecognised. It must, 
therefore, be admitted that sight is a great health-giving agent, 
and that its absence is a serious and lamentable deprivation. 
Certain it is that excessive mental and bodily toil are more 
injurious to the blind than to the sighted. That the loss of one 
sense increases and intensifies the power of the others is a well- 
worn aphorism, and it has been shrewdly remarked by a German 
philosopher that " while sight is the clearest, hearing is the 



122 BLIND MUSICIANS. 

deepest of the senses." No doubt the one is the favourite 
vehicle and stimulus of emotion, the other of intellect. 

Music certainly appeals more directly to feeling than painting ; 
the tones of the voice are the truest expression of sentiment and 
character ; the sounds of nature, the wailing and sighing of the 
wind, the notes of birds, the humming of bees affect the feelings 
more profoundly and mysteriously than colour and form. The 
tuneful art has always proved a source of delight and comfort 
to the blind. Galileo, the sightless, persecuted philosopher, when 
76 years old, found music a charm and a blessing to him ; 
Homer, the " Father of Song," recited and intoned his grand 
verses in every city to which he travelled ; — and here let me 
quote the beautiful lines he addressed to the Maids of Delos — 
music without notes — 

** Virgins farewell — and O, remember me, 
Heieafter, when some wanderer from the sea, 
Some hapless stranger shall your isle explore, 
And ask you maids, of all the hards you boast, 
Who sings the sweetest and delights you most — 
O, answer all, a blind old man and poor, 
Sweetest he sings, and dwells on Chios' rocky shore." 

Our own Milton, one of the 

"•Three poets, in three distant ages born," 

was, as we all know, passionately fond of music ; indeed, he 
inherited a taste for the art, his father having been an excellent 
amateur organist who composed a fine old psalm-tune called 
" York," which a blind musician (Sir George Macfarren) 200 
years later arranged for the Organists' Quarterly Journal^ with 
variations and contrapuntal treatment of a high and classical 
character. To Milton, when deprived of his visual organs, 
music was indeed " discourse most eloquent " ; it suggested to 
him all kinds of ideas, and beautiful 

** Thoughts, that voluntary move 
Harmonious numbers." 

After one of his quiet hours at the sweet- toned organ his father 
had bequeathed to him, the immortal poet wrote : — 

*' Visions come and go ; 
Shapes of resplendent beauty round me throng ; 
1* rem angels' lips I seem to hear the flow 
Of soft and holy song." 

And is there one knowing anything of Handel's masterpiece, 
the oratorio Samson^ the sublime music of which was composed 
when he too, poor man, was deprived of sight, who is not moved 
in his heart with deep emotion when listening to the inspired 
words and music of this fine work — Samson Agonistes — the joint 



BLIND MUSICIANS. 1 23 

production of two of the greatest intellects the world has ever 
known ? 1 remember, when a boy, being taken to hear the 
great tenor Braham sing " Total eclipse, no sun, no moon, 
no stars ! " which he gave with such intense and passionate 
feeling that there was scarcely a dry eye among the large 
audience assembled at the Subscription Rooms in Exeter, where 
his performances were given. In after years this same touching 
vocal inspiration was splendidly declaimed by Sims Reeves, and 
by that glorious singer, Maas, at a Leeds Musical Festival, 
where his rendering of the same composer's delicious air, *' Waft 
her angels to the skies," excited the admiration and delight of 
all who were privileged to hear it. 

Clever blind musicians have been numerous ; many of them 
have occupied prominent and important positions ; and I venture 
to think that some more particular and circumstantial record of 
their lives and doings than has yet been written willbe interest- 
ing and acceptable to numerous readers. Already I have 
spoken of Homer and Milton, who, though not dependent upon 
music for their existence, made it a most important element — 
or, as the phrase goes, '* function '' — in their general work and 
daily occupation. In addition to the great historical characters 
I have named, and many others of interest and reputation, it 
will be my purpose in these papers to dilate on those blind 
musicians I have personally known— Macfarren, Smart, Prichard, 
and the present Mr. Alfred Hollins, whose clever organ and 
pianoforte recitals have recently so delighted his numerous 
friends and brother Yorkshiremen. Let me, however, continue 
my account of those who have passed into the silent land, and 
long ago joined the majority. 

Perhaps the most eminent of English blind musicians, i.e. those 
who were sightless from their babyhood, was Dr John Stanley, 
who was born in 17 13, in London, and became Master of the 
Royal Band, and organist at the same time both to the Society 
of the Temple (the post now occupied by the distinguished 
organist Dr. Edward Hopkins) and of the church of St. 
Andrew's, Holborn. At seven years of age he was placed under 
the care and tuition of Mr. Reading, then organist of Hackney 
Church, and his progress was so great and his genius for music 
so pronounced that he was ultimately given to Dr. Green, the 
eminent organist and composer, to receive higher instruction. 
Stanley, at the age of 1 1, competed for and won the orgariistship 
of All Hallows', Bread Street, and subsequently he was pre- 
ferred to a great number of competitors for a similar appoint- 
ment at St. Andrew's, Holborn. In coimection with this church 



124 BLIND MUSICIANS. 

there is a story of a poor blind piper, which is worth recording 
and preserving : — 

During the prevalence of the great Plague of London this 
unfortunate strolling Scotch player, being weary with his day's 
exertions in search of alms, sat down at the close of evening on 
the steps of the church, where fatigue and gloomy reflections 
soon threw him into a deep sleep, and on the men with the 
dead-cart passing along Holborn to collect the bodies of those 
who had fallen victims to the fearful pestilence, they espied 
a human form on the church steps, and forthwith concluding 
that it was a wayfarer suddenly struck down, they seized the 
minstrel and placed him in the cart. The motion of the vehicle, 
however, soon awoke the piper, who, finding himself in such a 
strange position, and failing to make his voice heard, seized the 
pipes, and began to make such music as he thought might bring 
him relief; the drivers, horrified on hearing such sounds from 
among the dead bodies, fled with dismay, swearing the Devil 
himself was in the cart. Of course this soon brought the poor 
blind man assistance, and his life was thus saved. 

Stanley was so great a favourite at the Temple Church, and 
St. Andrew's, that he held both appointments for upwa^rds of 50 
years — up to the time of his last illness. Not only was he 
a good organist — a brilliant performer — but he was also skilled 
in playing the violin and flute, and played from memory all the 
principal concertos by Corelli and the favourite solos composed 
by the distinguished Italian — Geminiani. When Handel died in 
1759, Stanley undertook to continue the performances of the 
oratorios at Covent Garden Theatre, which he did with admirable 
skill and tact, assisted by his friends Smith and Lindley, to 
within two years of his death. His abilities as an organist were 
so great that he attracted numbers of the profession to listen to 
him both at the Temple and at St. Andrew's, and it is recorded 
that the great Handel himself was one of his most ardent 
admirers. At a performance of one of Handel's Te DeumSy the 
organ was found to be a semitone higher than the other instru- 
ments, and Stanley at once transposed all his share in the work 
to D flat major, which was thought to be quite wonderful at the 
time, but many organists at the present day could accomplish 
this without very much difficulty. Stanley's compositions 
included two oratorios, Jephtha and Zimriy many organ 
concertos, after the style and manner of the day, being more or 
less Handelian ; and a dramatic pastoral, entitled Arcadia, or the 
Shepherd's Wedding, which was performed in 1761, immediately 
after the marriage of George HI. and Queen Charlotte. 



BLIND MUSICIANS. 12 



D 



No. 2.— Macfarren, Smart, Prichard, Etc. 

'* Such music 
Before was never made 
But when of old the sons of morning sang." — Milton. 

It is no matter of astonishment that the blind should have 
found music not only to be a great solace, but one of the best 
means of obtaining a livelihood in the more respectable walks 
of life. We are told by one of the poets that " Music hath 
charms to soothe the savage breast," and this being so, it is no 
marvel that it hath charms to soothe the sorrows of the sightless. 
We have seen how sweetly Homer, Milton, and Handel sang, 
and we know that Blacklock, Professor Fawcett, and other 
learned men relieved their studies by having recourse to music's 
revivifying strains. 

The attachment of the blind for their own particular 
instruments is a notable fact, and whilst the organ, from its 
varied, beautiful tones, seems to have been the general favourite 
with the male portion of the sightless community, the harp has 
ever been a pet of the female blind. Those who can recall to 
mind with what energy and impressiveness the Yorkshire Queen 
of Song, Mrs. Sunderland, used to sing Jeffry's song, ** The 
Blind Girl to her Harp," will easily recall to their memories the 
words of the first verse, which I think ran thus : — 

** Harp ! my own beloved harp ! my fingers o'er thee stray, 
And wake the sounds that bear my thoughts to brightest realms away ; 
In sorrow on to thee I turn, so touching is thy tone, 
That list'ning to thy fitful woes makes me forget my own." 

Some thirty or forty years ago there existed a considerable 
amount of prejudice against the employment of blind organists 
— especially for the Church of England service — and there was 
strong writing in some of the London journals, in which the 
total exclusion of the blind from organists' appointments was 
most unfairly argued. In 1856 Miss Northcote successfully 
competed for St. Ann and St. Agnes, near the Post Office, 
London, and although a cabal was immediately formed to oppose 
her election on account of her blindness, she, by her talents, 
energy, and the interference of influential friends, succeeded in 
keeping the appointment for nearly twenty years. This was the 
turning-point for the blind performers, since which time Creswick, 
Prichard, Summers, Swanson, and others have held good 
appointments, and it is an interesting fact, which might here be 
recorded, that in Paris similar appointments are held in no less 
than forty Roman Catholic churches by sightless organists. 

Undoubtedly the most distinguished blind musician of the 



126 BLIND MUSICIANS. 

present century was Sir George Alexander Macfarren, who was 
born in 1813, and died not very long ago. Up to 1856, when he 
produced his Mav Day at the Festival held in St. George's Hall, 
Bradford, he had for many years been able to see a little by 
placing a strong lens close to his eye and the book ; but, after 
that date, Sir George could never act as his own amanuensis — 
his sight being entirely gone. " But," and here I quote from my 
Musical Memories^ ** there was no falling off in his mental 
power and activity ; he would dictate the full score of a 
symphony or an oratorio, commencing at the top of a page and 
gradually working his way to the foot thereof, the whole of the 
movement having been previously matured in his own mind, 
and chiselled on the tablet of his memory." Afterwards his 
immense energy and talent led him to compose the oratorios 
St. John tJie Baptist^ the Resurrection ^ Joseph^ and Davidy in all 
of which he showed his mastery over form, orchestration, and 
counterpoint. 

Sir George Macfarren had a happy knack of pleasing his 
fellow-musicians, especially the younger branches of the pro- 
fession, when listening to their performances or compositions. I 
am indebted to Miss Edith Milner, of York, for the following 
anecdote respecting the visit of the distinguished musician to 
the Industrial School. "It was on a very cold spring morning 
in April, 1882, when Sir George came and sat in the yard at 
least half-an-hour without an overcoat, listening to and criticising 
the brass and string bands and the part songs, very sweetly 
played and sung by the boys of the York Industrial School. 
He soon spotted one of the cleverest of the players, sent for 
him, and encouraged the boy with some kindly words of 
recognition and advice." 

In an obvious and natural sequence, Henry Smart, Macfarren's 
friend — who in his later days shared the misfortune of blindness 
— should here be noticed. I have written so much about Smart, 
his works, and his great and varied genius, that less need be 
said now than would have been otherwise the case. 

Henry Smart became gradually blind from night work in the 
composition of his masterpiece — The Bride of Dunkerron^ a 
glorious and never-to-be-forgotten work, produced at the 
Birmingham Musical Festival in 1864, when he was at the height 
of his fame and popularity. He conducted his own work with 
great skill and energy, and he received a perfect ovation at the 
end from the splendid bevy of critics, and an immense audience 
of amateurs, the nobility, gentry, etc. On his return to London 
he began to feel that his sight was injured, and he frequently 



BLIND MUSICIANS. 1 27 

intimated this to me in his letters. He could not bear the idea 
at first of employing an amanuensis ; eventually, however, it 
became an indispensable necessity, and his daughter Clara 
(now Mrs. Souter) undertook the work with a devotion and 
singleness of purpose which reflected the greatest credit upon 
her filial affection and her splendid caligraphy. 

The deprivation of his sight caused Smart many a pang of 
anguish, for he was a great lover of Nature, of paintings, and 
"all that delighteth the eye of man." Nothing afforded him 
greater pleasure than to make up a party of friends — genial 
spirits — and to take a walking tour up or down the banks of the 
Thames, where he seemed to be acquainted with every nook and 
corner, and would describe the many different beautiful places 
we came to, or could see in the distance, with considerable 
graphic skill and power. One can easily imagine, therefore, 
how much his loss would affect him, though, as a rule, he 
possessed the passive nobility of beautiful instinct and endurance. 

Once only he gave way in my presence to a passionate 
outburst of grief at his ophthalmic disease, and that was when 
we were with a few friends in a boat off Bridlington one summer's 
evening. It was just opposite the celebrated Speeton Cliffs ; 
the sun was setting in a sea of golden light, the cliffs 
looked gigantic in their grandeur; the glorious bay with its 
rippling waves and the beautiful town in the distance, all 
combined to make up a glorious view. Unfortunately I described 
these scenes to Smart, when he burst into tears and earnestly 
exclaimed — "Oh, God! To think that I, who have always 
appreciated Nature's glories and drank deep of the beauties of 
grand scenery, cannot now see a molehill, much less the loveli- 
ness and sublimity of the scene now before me ! " Fortunately 
we succeeded in distracting his attention by saying he had 
caught a fish (we had put it there) with his own line and hook, 
and so by other conversation and excusable little cunning, we 
effectually disposed of his sudden and painful ebullition of grief. 

One of our most successful blind Yorkshire organists was 
Henry Prichard, who was a fine performer, and an able all- 
round musician. Not only did he perform the most difficult 
fugues by Sebastian Bach, Mendelssohn's sonatas, etc., but he 
had an extensive repertory of his own — special German and 
French pieces — which he managed to get together by his own 
exertions and those of his friends. He lived in Leeds the 
greater part of his life, and was for some years organist of 
Armley Church. When the Town Hall organ was erected he 
applied for the appointment of organist, but was not, I believe. 



128 BLIND MUSICIANS. 

permitted to compete, chiefly because he could not read at sight 
— a matter which would often be required. Afterwards, he gave 
several admirable recitals, and his playing was always much 
admired. I saw a great deal of him in his later period (he died 
a few years since), as he used to join me in the study at Spring- 
field Villa — where I then lived — in looking and playing over the 
proffered contributions to The Organists' Quarterly Journal^ for 
which, indeed, he composed two or three excellent pieces. 
Besides these, he published a remarkably clever Prelude and 
Fugue, and dedicated it to Dr. Monk, organist of York Minster. 

Prichard generally took a page-boy with him in his peregrina- 
tions, and who would blow the organ for him at home. On one 
occasion this young scamp played him a trick which caused the 
poor blind organist to dismiss him instantly. The musician was 
occasionally taken by the boy to a snug hostelry, where in the 
afternoon he would sometimes take a glass of hot brandy and 
water. On one occasion the master, after having ordered 
number two, fell asleep. Master " Buttons," thinking it very 
slow work, and there being no one present to make a second 
" Peeping Tom," quietly drank off the brandy and water. As 
soon as the blind organist awoke, of course he detected the theft, 
accused the boy, who stoutly denied the charge, but when he 
was smelt and detected, his ears were soundly boxed. On their 
way home they came to a narrow passage, where there were 
three posts four or five feet high. The boy let go his master 
and said, " Jump, sir, jump, there's a dyke " — he himself jumping 
between the posts. The blind organist, being above suspicion, 
did as he was told, and came on to one of the posts with a 
painful, punch on his stomach. When he had recovered his 
breath, the boy was threatened with the police, but the young 
urchin kept dodging about, and then triumphantly exclaimed, 
" Well, sir, I thought if you could smell brandy and water, you 
could smell post ! " 

One of the cleverest of the clever people our American cousins 
send us sometimes was a negro called " Blind Tom," who was an 
adept at repeating any piece that might be played to him on 
the piano, and also in naming the component parts of any 
difficult, complex chords that could be struck simultaneously. 
I remember his appearance here in the old Music Hall many 
years ago, when Prichard tackled him and played some passages 
and chords which bothered poor " Blind Tom " (clever as he had 
shown himself) more than any other test he had been put to in 
his tour. 

There is a blind musician at present astonishing the inhabitants 



BLIND MUSICIANS. 1 29 

of the States and Pennsylvania by his wonderful memory, not 
only in the performance of numerous difficult pianoforte solos, 
but by lecturing on the different masters, whom he introduces in 
a clear, instructive, and eloquent manner. His name is Edward 
Baxter Perry, of Boston, and he has just returned from a 
successful tour through all the leading cities and towns in the 
States, during which he has given sixty of the lecture recitals 
which are his speciality, and for which he is becoming every 
year more and more renowned. Mr. Perry, it is stated, has 
emphatically disproved the disheartening statement so often 
made, that there is little field for pianoforte music in America. 
In these lecture recitals he has enlarged the scope of the piano- 
forte concert, both on the popular and artistic sides, doubling its 
value for students and musicians on the one hand, and reaching 
large classes of people hitherto indifferent to this class of music 
on the other. As the Times of his own city states — " Mr. Perry 
has talents as a lecturer which perhaps could not be found 
united to extreme musical attainments in another instance 
throughout the country ; and the lecture recital, originated by 
him, affords ample scope for his rare gifts in both lines." 



No. 3. — Alfred Hollins. 



There are many cogent reasons why I should devote this third 
article on " Blind Musicians " almost exclusively to our talented 
Yorkshireman, Mr. Alfred Hollins. He has been frequently in 
the West Riding of late, his performances and his works have 
excited universal approbation, and, finally, his comparative 
youth (I believe he is only 24 years old) and native modesty, 
mark him out as an object worthy of attention and laudation. 
Permit me, first, to summarise a little in order that we may 
remember what giant intellects there have been among " Blind 
Musicians." We started with Homer and Milton, and then 
came to Handel, Stanley, Macfarren, Smart, Prichard, Summers, 
Creswick, Swanson, and others, who were at some period of their 
active lives deprived of their sight. And yet how little mental 
loss either of them seems to have felt ! In the dictation of their 
compositions they appeared to be gifted with supernatural 
power; they became absolutely omnipotent, and manipulated with 
as much dexterity as they did the musical instruments of their 
choice. This is not only really wonderful, but absolutely true ! 
Alfred Hollins took the most prominent part at the concert 

I 



130 BLIND MUSICIANS. 

for and by the blind at the Coliseum last Tuesday week, and 
well and nobly he fulfilled his duties. One could scarcely 
believe that he was sightless, the perfect freedom with which he 
raised his hands after striking diatonic and chromatic chords 
would have been commendable in any artist ; but with Hollins 
— so very different from other blind performers I have known — 
the manner of his performances was simply astonishing. 

And here I am reminded of appropriate quotations from the 
poet Coleridge : — 

** I have heard of reasons manifold 
Why love must needs be blind, 
But this the best of all I hold— 
His eyes are in his mind." 

And again — 

** My eyes make pictures when they are shut." 

** Be that blind bard, who on Chian strand, 
By those deep sounds possessed with inward light, 

Beheld the Iliad and the Odyssey, 
Rise to the swelling of the voiceful sea." 

« • • • • • • 

Alfred Hollins was born at Hull in 1865. Even as a baby 
(two years old) he exhibited phenomenal powers, being able to 
play many little airs on the pianoforte, and, like Blind Tom, 
name the notes of most chords that were struck for him. His 
early education was obtained at the famous Wilberforce Institu- 
tion for the Blind, at York, now so ably conducted by Mr. and 
Mrs. Buckle, from whence he was removed at the age of eleven 
to the Royal Normal College in South ^^orwood, and he is there 
now one of its most distinguished professors. It must not 
be forgotten by those who hear and see the wonderful doings of 
blind musicians, that they possess the advantage of very superior 
training ; indeed all are nurtured and cared for by the highest 
and most accomplished teachers in Great Britain. In my old 
friend. Dr. E. J. Hopkins, the ever-green, learned organist of the 
Temple Church, London, Alfred Hollins got the best man in 
England, and the same might very nearly be said of his piano- 
forte instructor, Mr. Fritz Hartvigson, from whom he obtained 
unremitting instruction and attention. His progress was indeed 
remarkable on both instruments, and I believe that his teachers 
had some difficulty in keeping pace with him. 

In 1879 he made his first public appearance of note, viz., at 
the Crystal Palace, and of his performance the London Daily 
Telegraph says : — " Another astounding performance succeeded. 
Master Alfred Hollins, a boy of twelve, played Bach's Prelude 
and Fugue in G major and Raff's Tour a Cheval with a facility 



BLIND MUSICIANS I3I 

and brilliance which it is not too much to say would have been 
creditable in a professional pianist of thrice his age. If his 
studies bear the fruit they promise, Master HoUins has a 
prospect of making a name for himself" 

In February, 1884, he had a most successful appearance at 
the St. James's Hall, London, before Her Royal Highness 
Princess Louise and a most distinguished audience, and of his 
performance the Musical World of February 9th says : — ** No 
one could look on the amiable and intelligent face of Mr. Alfred 
Hollins as he stepped to the music stool to take his seat 
preparatory to playing Beethoven's Emperor Concerto without 
being moved with unusual sympathy. For was he not there 
alone in darkness whilst his fellow instrumentalists around him 
had the aid of light ? The single chord with which the orchestra 
opened the Concerto seemed as the starting point from which 
the youth had to thread his way through a musical wilderness 
wherein giddy heights were divided by bewildering depths. But 
fear for him was groundless. For is not the realm of sound his 
home ? All this is clear to his mental vision. He knew Beethoven's 
Concerto too well to miss his way or stumble in the path." 

Mr. Hollins shortly afterwards had the honour of appearing at 
Windsor before Her Majesty the Queen, and subsequently again 
at the Crystal Palace, where, in conjunction with Mr. Manns's 
orchestra, he played the pianoforte part in Beethoven's E flat 
Concerto, of which performance the Musical Times says : — 
" Alfred Hollins recently played before Her Majesty, and made 
his name famous. On this occasion he essayed the greatest of 
all classical works for his instrument, and executed it to the 
wonder of an audience who gave him flattering tokens of their 
admiration." He next appeared at St. James's Hall, in London, 
also at the Guildhall, where he played Schumann's romantic 
Concerto with orchestra, and again achieved unqualified success. 

The noted principal of the College, Dr. F. J. Campbell, acted 
wisely in not letting him devote too much time to playing m 
public, but kept him studying hard and laying in a store of 
capital for after use, and so, beyond a few organ recitals, and an 
occasional appearance, we hear very little of him till 1883, when 
he made a most successful debut before a Scotch audience at 
one of the Glasgow Choral Union Concerts. This was followed 
by a visit to the Emerald Isle, where he gave an organ recital in 
the Carlisle Memorial Church at Belfast. Here is what was said 
of him : — " Mr. Hollins is simply a genius. Though blind and 
only 17 years of age, he is far above even those who rank 
as first-class players. Anything like the combined skill and 



132 BLIND MUSICIANS. 

delicacy of manipulation displayed by the young artist is 
extremely rare. His playing throughout was a revelation. He 
is no longer a student, but a finished artist. He is thoroughly 
master of the mechanical part of his work. The keyboard 
is under his control with a firm, clear touch, and an execution 
both easy and true. When necessary there is in his playing a 
breadth of phrasing and always an accent just and expressive. 
At the termination of the Concerto Mr. Hollins was rapturously 
applauded." This was followed by another visit to Belfast, as 
pianist at a complimentary concert to Mr. Harris, secretary 
to the Philharmonic Society. He once more achieved an 
unqualified success. 

In 1885 he paid his first visit to the Continent, and played by 
command of the King and Queen of the Netherlands at the 
Palace at Brussels. This was followed by a recital at the Sing- 
akademie, Berlin, under the patronage of her Imperial Highness 
the Crown Princess of Germany and Sir Edward and Lady 
Ermyntrude Malet, the audience being present only by the 
invitation of the Crown Princess. On this occasion, he undertook 
a task which (says the German Beilage zur Post), "we have 
heard in Germany only by our greatest pianists. He played 
three great Concertos by Beethoven, Schumann, and Liszt, 
accompanied by the Philharmonic Orchestra, conducted by Pro- 
fessor Karl Klindworth. Neither the memory nor the physical 
power deserted the pianist for an instant. He achieved the 
greatest triumph;" whilst all the other German papers were 
unanimous in his praise. After this, Mr. Hollins went for a 
course of study to Herr Hans von Bulow, and became a great 
favourite with this distinguished virtuoso. Von Bulow is a man 
of few words, but on leaving he presented his pupil with his 
photograph on which he wrote : — ** To Mr. Alfred Hollins, one 
of those rare true musicians among pianoforte virtuosi : in 
affectionate remembrance of this conference ; " words which 
mean volumes. 

In 1885, Mr. Hollins made a most successful appearance before 
a Yorkshire audience at the Huddersfield Subscription Concerts, 
and had an enthusiastic reception. This was followed by 
appearances in Sheffield, Edinburgh, Dundee, etc., at all of which 
places his playing produced a remarkable sensation. Returning 
to London he appeared at the Fawcett Memorial Concert at the 
Albert Hall, Battersea, and played Guilmant's " D minor Sym- 
phony " for organ and orchestra, following with Schumann's 
pianoforte Concerto and Liszt's No. i, in E flat — another great 
success. In January, 1886, Mr. Hollins paid his first visit to the 



BLIND MUSICIANS. 1 33 

land of Stars and Stripes, his first appearance being at the New 
York Academy of Music. His engagements included Boston, 
Washington, and Baltimore. At all of these places he obtained 
an enthusiastic reception, becoming a great favourite with the 
American conductors, and speedily made engagements for future 
appearances. Returning to England he gave recitals throughout 
the country both on the pianoforte and organ, fulfilling engage- 
ments at the Glasgow and Liverpool Exhibitions. In 1886 he 
was again found in America, where he followed up his previous 
successes, and in 1887 he appeared several times in Yorkshire, 
namely, at Sheffield, Huddersfield, Bradford, Halifax, Hull, etc. 

In 1888 he played the Emperor Concerto with Hallo's orchestra 
at the Huddersfield Subscription Concerts, and readers of the 
local press of March ist would see the reception he obtained on 
that occasion. In May of last year he appeared at the London 
Philharmonic, where in conjunction with the orchestra he played 
Beethoven's Emperor Concerto, her Royal Highness the Princess 
of Wales being present. Another successful appearance was at the 
Leeds Subscription Concerts this season, where he performed 
Schumann's Etudes Symphonique. About twelve months ago 
Mr. Hollins received the offer of the position of organist to the 
People's Palace in the East End of London, which he accepted, 
and his Sunday and Wednesday recitals formed a great attrac- 
tion, but he has since resigned the appointment. As a composer 
of songs and organ music, Mr. Hollins has already made his 
mark. There are a number of excellent vocal compositions at 
present in the publishers' hands, and a charming little composi- 
tion, "Tears," which appeared recently in the Magazine of Music, 
I have invited Mr. Hollins to give a Recital some Saturday 
evening at the Leeds Town Hall, and I am pleased to say that 
he has cordially accepted the invitation.* 



No. 4. — Watson, Hudson, Wagstaff, etc. 

The Wilberforce Memorial — Yorkshire School for the Blind, 
now well established at the Old Manor House in York — has 
turned out some excellent musicians, vocalists and instrument- 
alists, during the last fifty years. Among the most successful of 
these may be mentioned Frank Watson, organist of the 
magnificent Parish Church of St. Mary's, Beverley, for forty 
years, and who sat by my side when I inaugurated the new 

* The performance was duly given, and afforded great delight to a very large, 
enthusiastic audience. 



134 BLIND MUSICIANS. 

instrument, built by Messrs. Forster and Andrews, of Hull, 
a long while ago. He was a precise, neat player, and especially 
quick in finding and drawing out the numerous stops of his 
instrument, as well as making excellent combinations. 

There were the ingenious, intelligent William Hudson, organist 
at Bishopthorpe ; Maria Wilson, who became a leading profes- 
sional singer in Hull, and whose sweet voice, rieat execution, 
and great taste, will never be forgotten by those who frequently 
heard her sing in the Leeds old Music Hall, and at the earlier 
concerts in the Town Hall ; William Turner, ot York, and 
Robert Turner, Scarborough, both excellent organists and 
teachers of music ; William Riley, organist at Bilton, Harrogate, 
who obtained a similar appointment at Selby Abbey by 
competition. Dr. Monk being the judge ; Halley Plowman, who 
has been organist at Acomb for over forty years, and was a 
highly respected manager of a very successful concert party ; 
besides many others too numerous to mention. There are two 
or three, however, who stand out prominently as clever 
musicians and should obtain special notice. 

First, there is that excellent vocalist, Mr. E. C. Wagstaff, who, 
I am proud to say, was a pupil of mine for over twelve months, 
during which time (he came specially from York to Leeds for 
his lessons) he made great progress. He plays the harmonium 
and conducts the choir at St. Cuthbert's, York ; is principal bass 
singer in the School choir, and in Mr. Plowman's concert party ; 
has carried off three first prizes for solo singing in five contests 
in the West Riding ; and is able to support himself and family. 
He was thus written about : — 

Mr. Wagstafif had a far more difficult solo (" Thus saith the 
Lord ") than any of the other competitors, and yet he rendered 
it with a correctness which was truly astonishing. With the 
exception of avoiding the shakes, every mark for style and 
expression was duly attended to, while to every note was given 
its proper value. Added to this he had an admirable voice, 
which he applied judiciously and tastefully to his solo. Thus it 
was that the judge (Mr. Walter Parratt, Magdalen College, 
Oxon.) and audience must easily have determined who should 
take the first prize. 

Next may be mentioned a remarkably clever pianist, organist, 
and teacher, who has settled in Hull, Mr. Arthur C. Stericker, 
of whose recital at the Royal .Institution a year or two ago a 
contemporary thus wrote : — 

On Saturday afternoon last a large audience assembled to 
hear a recital of pianoforte music .by Mr. A. C. Stericker 



BLIND MUSICIANS. 1 35 

(formerly pupil in the School for the Blind at York, and in the 
Royal Blind College, Norwood). Dr. (now Sir Arthur) RoUit 
presided. The items of the programme selected by Mr. 
Stericker were of a very classical and superior character, and 
included compositions from the best works of Bach, Weber, 
Mendelssohn, Chopin, Beethoven, and Rubinstein. Mr. 
Stericker, by his brilliant execution of the most difficult passages, 
held his audience enthralled throughout, and the attention and 
delight which was exhibited was an evident token of the pianist's 
ability as well as of the appreciation of classical music which is 
daily growing stronger in this country. 

There was another musical genius — Mr. Shaw — whose 
repertory for the organ and pianoforte includes most of the 
difficult pieces by the great classic masters, as well as those 
which represent the modern romantic school. These he could 
play when he left the York Institution, at the age of 19, after 
eight years' training there. In January, 1887, Mr. Shaw went 
to the famous Blind College at Worcester, and in December last 
he passed his responsions at Oxford, and entered as an under- 
graduate with a view to taking the ordinary degree, proceeding 
probably to the Mus. Bac. and Mus. Doc. honours. 

A few months since I had the pleasure to visit the Blind 
School at York, and was most courteously received by the 
manager and manageress, Mr. and Mrs. Buckle, who showed me 
over the building, and took me to the large music room, where 
concerts are often given by the pupils in the presence of 
numerous visitors and patrons. There is a good two-manual 
organ at the head of the room, and near it a small platform, 
upon which is placed a grand pianoforte. Unfortunately it was 
vacation time, and with the exception of a few — including my 
former pupil, Mr. Wagstaff — who reside in York, near the 
Institution, I was not treated, as I wished, to some of the solo 
and part singing I had so greatly enjoyed in former years. It 
was, however, with peculiar pleasure that, at the request of those 
present, I played the organ for about half-an-hour, and received 
the hearty thanks of my sightless but cheerful hearers. There 
can be no doubt that this institution — the York Wilberforce 
School for the Blind— is one of the best in England, and that it 
fully deserves all the generous and hearty support it receives 
from the rich who chiefly reside in " the county of broad acres." 

Of the Sixth Triennial Congress of Managers and Teachers of 
Blind Institutions held at Cologne in August last, the York 
delegate sent to the Committee of the Yorkshire School a most 
interesting report, and I extract the following from that part of 



136 BLIND MUSICIANS. 

it which refers to the musical acquirements of the pupils at 
Diiren Institution, which is the only one in the Rhine Province : — 

"When we had perambulated the whole Institution, we gathered 
in the music room, where we were entertained with a recitation 
in the form of a dialogue between personifications, by three of 
the elder girls, of Light, Night, and Religion, which was intro- 
duced and concluded with music composed, as well as the 
recitation, for the occasion. Many allusions in it called forth 
hearty applause, and the whole piece was instructive, stimulating, 
and to our blind friends consoling. Several other pieces of 
concerted and solo music were charmingly rendered by the 
pupils, and none more so than Mendelssohn's sweet duet and 
chorus from the Lobgesang^ " I waited for the Lord," which, 
though with German' words, carried us away to the music room 
in York, and our memories back to those who used to sing it so 
sweetly there ; but a further, and if possible, a greater pleasure 
awaited us. From the music room we went out into the beautiful 
grounds of the school, where we found the band of the Institution, 
consisting of six violins, two violas, two 'cellos, one double bass, 
six flageolets, two flutes, nine brass instruments, drum, cymbals, 
triangle, and kettledrum, arranged in a circle. Sixteen of the 
elder girls then made their appearance, all neatly dressed in 
black stuff, who arranged themselves in fours at a short distance 
from the band, which then played a lively air, partly dance, 
partly march. Then the girls, blending their sweet voices with 
the band, began and went through a sort of simple quadrille. It 
was now towards the evening of a hot day ; the members of the 
Congress and friends of the School were gathered around in 
groups under the shade of the trees, all enthusiastically intent on 
the scene before them, and charmed with the sweet strains of voices 
and instruments. The whole was an idyllic scene never to be for- 
gotten, the memory of which will, I think, be more lasting and 
precious than that of the sumptuous banquet which followed, 
provided for the members by the Government of the Province." 

The Royal Normal College and Academy of Music for the 
Blind, which was opened in March, 1872, is one of the finest 
institutions of its class in Europe, and as the buildings comprised 
in it stand in their own grounds at Upper Norwood, near the 
Crystal Palace, the pretty place is constantly visited by numbers 
of the classes and masses, who become deeply interested in the 
noble, charitable work carried on there. Her Most Gracious 
Majesty the Queen is the patron, and the vice-patrons include 
the Prince and Princess of Wales, and several other members of 
the Koyal Family, while the president is His Grace the Duke of 



BLIND MUSICIANS. 1 37 

Westminster, K.G. In the list of vice-presidents, trustees, 
general council, executive committee, medical officers, etc., will 
be found the names of bishops, dukes, lords, baronets, and a 
number of influential gentry and scientists. 

In the musical department, with which alone I can deal here, 
the examiners are Mr. August Manns and Sir John Stainer ; 
while the professors and teachers include Dr. Hans von Billow 
(hon. director), Messrs. Fritz and Anton Hartvigson, H. C. Banister, 
F. Smither, Dr. E. J. Hopkins, Mr. W. H. Cummings, Miss 
Woodford, etc., with a stafif of resident teachers, including Miss 
Amelia Campbell, Mr. Alfred Hollins, etc. The principal, who 
is musical and conducts most of the concerts, is Dr. F. J. Camp- 
bell, F.R.G.S., and the lady superintendent, Mrs. F.J. Campbell. 
With such a staff it is no wonder that the general education and 
intellectual faculties of the pupils are developed in the best and 
most successful way possible ; and as their sense of hearing and 
of touch may be evolved in the highest degree, the majority of 
the sightless become admirable musicians. Most of these — 
including those useful, painstaking persons, pianoforte tuners — 
are self-reliant and able to gain an independent livelihood ; 
indeed, it was stated last week at the annual meeting held at 
Grosvenor House that the hundred blind persons who had gone out 
into the world from the College last year earned over ;^ 10,000. 

The following from a recent report referring to the musical 
department will be read with much interest : — 

Our able corps of professors remains nearly the same as last 
year ; their zealous devotion to the work in their own depart- 
ments has only been equalled by their own hearty co-operation 
in promoting the highest interests of the blind in all possible 
ways. Had it not been for the warm sympathy and personal 
support of my fellow -workers, strength and courage would often 
have failed. We have increased the number of resident teachers. 
Additional pianos have been purchased, and as our four organs 
do not give sufficient practice, we have had five sets of organ 
pedals attached to pianos. This will enable our pupils not only 
to have much more practice on the pedals, but commit all their 
organ music at the pedal pianos, and have their entire time at 
the organ for' actual practice. We now have four pipe organs, 
sixty pianos in the Music Department, and twenty-six pianos in 
the Pianoforte Tuning School. We have recently devised an 
inexpensive and convenient arrangement for holding " Braille " 
music while the pupil is sitting at the piano, as the ordinary 
music-desk, owing to its position, is useless. Our solo performers 
have had more engagements, and have also been employed in 



138 BLIND MUSICIANS. 

trio and quartet parties. Their performances have given much 
satisfaction to those by whom they were employed. We are 
' anxious to make this fact more widely known among ladies and 
gentlemen giving musical evenings ; we confidently anticipate 
their services will be more and more required. The most 
important advance which has been made during the year is in 
regard to church singmg. Our pupils read so fluently that they 
are able to sing the hymns or chant the psalms in church without 
committing the words to memory. If the hymn-book used is 
not already embossed, it is only necessary to have the hymns a 
short time in advance, they quickly write them out in " Braille," 
and thus become independent. As a number of singers have 
proved by practical success that they can, without difficulty, 
undertake church engagements, and as the voices of our singers 
are highly cultivated, we ask without hesitation that all who have 
such employment to give will communicate with us in regard to 
their requirements. 

In addition to their accomplishments as vocalists and instru- 
mentalists, many of the students have been very successful in 
the study of harmony and counterpoint. In his report on this 
branch of mu^ic their able teacher, Mr. Banister, says : — 

The students had to supply a four-part harmony to a figured 
bass. Four of the exercises, transferred from the Braille system, 
in which they had been worked out, to that of the ordinary 
musical notation, were placed before me for inspection. They 
were all grammatically correct, and those of Miss Constance 
Davis and Miss Lily Bell were even prominently efficient in 
regard to the melodic flow of the three parts built up by them 
upon the figured bass. 

I have already alluded to the pianoforte tuners, about whom 
may here be quoted the paragraph upon granting certificates : — 

The College authorities have been fortunate in securing, as 
examiner and assistant-examiner, the invaluable services of Mr. 
A. J. Hipkins and Mr. Irvine, of Messrs. John Broadwood & Sons. 
In each year we have two preliminary examinations, in which 
Mr. Irvine not only inspects pianos tuned by the pupils, but sees 
each pupil at work, noting the manner of holding and managing 
the tuning-hammer and damper, testing them with all varieties 
of trichord pianos, including overstrung instruments. Each 
pupil is also required to show by actual performance his mechani- 
cal skill in making eyes, stringing, and ordinary light repairs, 
such as removing broken wrest-pins, repairing hammer-shanks, 
etc. The third and final examination is conducted by Mr. 
Hipkins. The work of each pupil is carefully marked with 



BLIND MUSICIANS. 1 39 

detailed criticism in regard to defects, and if the work falls below 
the required standard the certificates are withheld. The College 
^authorities are determined to recommend only those students 
who are thoroughly qualified to do good work. 

From the above then we may gather sufficient information to \ 
learn what admirable institutions for the training of blind \ 
musicians there are both in London and York, and how wxll 
the students are provided for, educated, and utilised. 

As to the Leeds school, it is only small and requires but few 
words, especially as I know but little of it, and sought for 
detailed information in vain. There are, I believe, about sixteen 
or seventeen pupils, and no doubt these are kindly cared for and 
educated as well as the resources of the institution will permit. 
Singing is successfully taught by Miss Patti Hargreaves, but 
there is no organ or any other appliances which the larger 
schools possess. It might come under the consideration of the 
kind and charitable ladies who chiefly form the committee that 
our Leeds institution should be used as a preparatory' school, 
and at nine or ten years of age the pupils might be drafted to a 
larger and more complete establishment. 

. One of the most remarkable blind men of Yorkshire was John 
Metcalf (born at Knaresborough in 17 17), who became blind 
from small-pox at the age of six, and who for a long time earned 
his living by playing the fiddle, upon which instrument he became 
so proficient in dance music that he regularly attended the fort- 
nightly meetings at the Assembly Rooms in his native town, as 
well as visited the principal terpsichorean gatherings " all round 
the country side." He was also a good performer on the haut- 
boy. Ultimately he became one of the most famous and successful 
contractors for making roads and bridges in Yorkshire, his fame 
being extended far and wide. But it was as a musician that he 
was the hero of a story at once both singular and interesting. 

After his return from a visit to London, whither he had walked 
to get out of an amorous scrape, he visited his first love, the 
daughter of the landlord of the Royal Oak — afterwards called 
the Granby — at Harrogate, and found that his affection was 
fully returned by the young lady, but the disparity in their 
circumstances prevented any avowal of regard. So little, indeed, 
was any engagement considered likely that a suitor for her hand 
asked Metcalf to use what influence he might have in his favour ; 
and as his inamorata suspected the musician to be rather cool 
and indifferent, she accepted the advances of her well-to-do 
admirer. On the day, however, before that fixed for the wedding, 
Metcalf, on riding past the Royal Oak towards the Queen's 



140 BLIND MUSICIANS. 

Head (he was a bold horseman, and actually rode with the 
hounds !) heard a female shout out, " One wants to speak with 
you." He at once turned into the stable, and, to his joyful 
surprise, found there his favourite, who had sent her mother's 
maid to call him. 

" Well, lass," said he, " thou's going to have a merry day to- 
morrow, and I'm to be the fiddler." 

'' Thou never shall fiddle at my wedding," replied she. 

" What's the matter, what have I done ?" said Metcalf. 

" Matters may not end," she replied, " as some folks wish they 
should." 

" What ! " he exclaimed, " hadst thou rather have me ? Canst 
thou bear starving ? " 

" Yes," she said, " with thee, lad, I can ! " 

" Give me thy hand then, lass ! Skin for skin, it's all done ! " 

The servant girl who had called him being present, he told 
her that as she and his horse were the only witnesses of what 
had passed, he would kill the first who should divulge it. The 
sequel can readily be guessed. Blind Jack the fiddler ran away 
with Miss Benson, the publican's daughter, and the prettiest girl 
in the town. When asked afterwards why she had refused so 
many good offers for Metcalf, she replied, " Because I could not 
be happy without him ; " and he replied to his interrogators, 
" Many women are like liquor merchants who purchase spirits 
above proof, knowing that they can lower them at home." John 
Metcalf lived to the patriarchal age of 93, and was buried in 
Spofforth Churchyard, where, on a tombstone which was 
renovated not long ago, there is a good characteristic inscription. 

There are many other incidents connected with blind musicians 
which would have been read with " pleasurable pain '* had time 
and space permitted ; such, for instance, as the " Moonlight 
Sonata " story with Beethoven, and the poor shoemaker's sight- 
less daughter, etc., but all these must be abandoned, at least for 
the present. Enough has been said, it is hoped, to excite 
considerable interest in the work and lives of the afflicted 
persons I have endeavoured to describe, and to whom the divine 
art of St. Cecilia is almost their all in all, the panacea for their 
sorrows caused by the deprivation of the visual organs and the 
exclusion of light — the source of their dreaming and hearing 
most melodious sounds, divine harmonies which seem to " bring 
all heaven before their eyes and melt them into ecstasies," to 
hear themselves and others " discourse most eloquent music," 
and finally, as a prelude to the sweet minstrelsy which we are 
divinely assured shall be the reward and occupation of the 
redeemed in the everlasting regions of the Eternal Kingdom 



141 



MUSIC AND SUNSHINE. 

(Written for the ''^Magazine of Music," i8go. ) 

Especially is there bright sunshine in most of the composi- 
tions by Haydn and Mozart. It is impossible to play or listen 
to the gleeful music of these two composers without being 
impressed with their perfectly happy manner, and the warmth of 
sunshine which pervades them. Well do I know from my own 
comparatively small experience as a composer how delightful is 
the feeling when a happy thought or inspiration is given to me 
by the Divine Will, and I sit down at my table and record 
in notes the cheering sunshine which is in my heart and soul, 
and which so long as it exists makes me perfectly glad and 
contented. 

But what must have been Haydn and Mozart's innermost 
feelings when composing those thousand and one delicious, 
enchanting melodies which have charmed the whole world of 
music, and brought sunshine into the hearts of millions ! Even 
the mighty Beethoven seems to have had more gloomy and 
distracting thoughts than innocent and happy ones, and much 
less of sunshine in his heart than was accorded to his compeers, 
Haydn and Mozart. In later times Mendelssohn from his 
boyhood, like Mozart, was blessed with a happy spirit, and there 
was no lack of either music or sunshine in his soul. 

But what can we say of the so-called Advanced School of 
Composers — such as Berlioz and Wagner? I was acquainted 
with both these worthy gentlemen, and, whatever may be the 
opinions of their extraordinary works, more restless creatures I 
never knew ; and I fancy it would puzzle the most ardent 
advocate of the " music of the future " school to discover much 
sunshine in their melodies, or give them credit for considerable 
happiness, felicity, or natural beatification. For the present, we 
will confine ourselves to a few general observations on, and 
quotations from, Haydn and Mozart. 

I remember in one of the numerous confabs on music and 
musicians I had with the late genial and learned Henry Smart, 



142 



MUSIC AND SUNSHINE. 



he said, after I had played on the Leeds Town Hall organ two 
movements from Haydn's melodious Symphony in D, " Ah, my 
dear fellow, Haydn is not half appreciated in this country, and 
he is considered by numbers of feather-headed musicians to be 
effete — out-of-date, etc. — but I love the old boy's music, and 
hope to enjoy its beauties as long as I live." 

Most heartily did I endorse my friend's opinion, and I am 
never tired of digging into the Haydn mine for undiscovered 
musical gems of the purest water, being frequently rewarded 
with " a good find." 

We will take only two or three illustrations from Haydn's 
innumerable beauties as proofs of the happy state of his mind 
whilst composing, and the sunshine which must have played 
round his heart when he had finished and heard the result of his 
handiwork. Here are the themes of the Menuetto and Trioirom. 
his first grand Symphony in C major : — 



Allegretto. 





etc 



Trio. 




* * 



\ — I — I — — I 1 



MUSIC AND SUNSHINE 



143 






5 



t— t— 



E 



m 

1 ■ ■ 



1 



I 



t 



I i_ 



£ 



s^^ 



s 




5t 




rT I I I! 



etc. 



3 



The whole work from beginning to end is redolent of sunshine 
and flowers, — brightness, beauty, and happiness appearing in 
every page of the score. If musical students and amateurs 
would but substitute the pianoforte arrangements .of Haydn's 
Symphonies for the wretched " drawing-room pieces " which are 
continually being issued by publishers for pecuniary advantages 
only, they would make sounder and better musicians, and be 
all the happier for obtaining pure gold in exchange for mere 
tinsel. 

It is not alone, however, for his instrumental productions that 
Haydn is to be revered and admired. Who that has any soul 
whatever for the '* concord of sweet sounds," can listen to his 
oratorios, T/ie Creation and The Seasons, without experiencing 
bliss and felicity of an impressive and enduring character? 
After hearing the representation of chaos — a war of jarring 
elements — we get the first gleam of sunshine in the following 
simple but lovely passage, which, being four times repeated sotto 
voce, with joyous bird-like passages from the flute, gives a 
sparkling animation to the whole, and leaves a delightful 
impression on the mind : — 



Violin, 



Voices, 




144 



MUSIC AND SUNSHINE. 



new ere - a - ted 




■^^^ 



^^ r 



world. 



new ere - a • kd 




world, springs up, springs 



up 



at 



i 



S^h^ 



I 



r^ 



^ U^^ 



God's com - mand. 



I 



lot 



^ 



3 



^ 



^.„|| H ^ ^ 1^^ 



A J. J. 






etc. 



ri-Tf 



p 



It has been said that Haydn's choruses have neither the 
sublimity nor the learned contrivance of Handel's ; and yet from 
the singular and original beauty of the melodies they are always 
elegant and effective. 

In the grand chorus, " The Heavens are telling the glory 
of God," Haydn does not attempt the broad, grandiose manner 
of Handel, but wisely employs a style of his own, depending 
chiefly for his effects upon the exuberance of his fancy, his 
power of wielding an improved band ; his entire command over 
the resources of harmony and modulation, and upon the 
" striking potency of contrasts." 

The bright and cheering sunshine is let in at the lovely trio, 
" In all the lands," with its beautiful legato passages for the wind 
instruments ; and the climax of this magnificent chorus is 
worked up with much fire, brilliancy, and overwhelming effect. 

One more illustration of our composer's sunshine is to be 
found in that exquisite TerzeitOy " Most beautiful appear." To 
accompany the words, " The gently sloping hills," the first and 
second violins are employed in undulating divisions ; " The 
fountain," by the bassoon ; the violins," Distil in crystal drops ;" 
the " Cheerful host of birds," by the flute ; whilst the " Flying 
whirl " is depicted by scintillating passages, taken up in quick 
succession by various instruments. 



MUSIC AND SUNSHINE. 



145 



Moderato. Caniabile, 





, g : 



%»-j^ 




s 



( ^:V r 



> 




^ 





•^c; 




fe# 



K 



M 





-»*^ r I I 




gffi 



s 



T T ? 




Jor, 




4- 




etc. 



Turn we now for a short time to that beautiful soul, that 
exalted master of the tone-art — Mozart. 

** Low at his feet with loving heart I bow, 
And bring these leaves to crown the Master's brow." 

Beautiful as were Haydn's creations, bright as was his teeming 

K 



146 MUSIC AND SUNSHINE. 

brain, even to the last, Mozart must claim precedence for 
heaven-born genius, and never-failing music and sunshine, so 
long as breath remained in him ; for did he not dictate the final 
notes of his immortal " Requiem " on his death-bed ? 

It is recorded of the little maestro, that on his seventh birth- 
day the winter lay heavy and cold upon Salzburg, but in the 
heart of that city's " wonder-child " it was spring-time. No 
matter what snow and ice might lock up the earth as in a marble 
tomb, it was all sunshine and song in the boy's soul. More and 
more as the months went by, it became evident that music was 
with him no mere fancy, but the passion of his life. Wherever 
harmonious sounds were, there was his happiness ; nothing but 
discords and jangling noises could cast a shadow over his always 
cheery face. When at last the May month had come upon the 
earth, with joy of larks and songs of nightingales, with hue and 
odour of early blossoms, and all the twigs were roughening, and 
every little bud was swelling, and million-fold new life was 
putting forth on every side ; then in the breast of the boy rose 
jubilant songs and streaming melodies of joy, and his quickening 
life put forth buds like the flower-stems ; a mighty impulse 
towards creative effort awoke in his soul, and the whole world 
seemed to him too narrow and confined. His world was the 
realm of music, and its boundaries must, before all other things, 
be widened and enlarged. In his poetic little heart he was 
singing — 

** Spring bursts into being, 
Our dark days are over, 
Sunshine is bringing us flowers and song ; 

Bower and stream. 

With raerry light gleam, 
Music is stealing the valleys along." 

With a joyous, confident soul, he commenced and pursued his 
career as a virtuoso and composer. He was never so happy as 
when writing and producing new works — and these came forth 
like fire from the mind with lightning-like rapidity. It was in 
vain that his father tried to modify his incessant work — " It is 
there," he said, pointing to his head, "and must come out." 
There is scarcely a gloomy thought to be found in any of his 
early writings, either in his lovely operas, grand symphonies, 
or elegant sonatas. All was music and sunshine with him, and 
he cared for little else. 

Can any one with a love of music fail to recognise in the two 
following themes, the first from his Opus 34, the second from the 
Grand Symphony in E flat, the sunshine that must have been in 
Mozart's heart when he composed those works ? 



MUSIC AND SUNSHINE. 



147 



Poco adagio, 





B-J^^ 



■7 ^- 







^^^ 



etc. 



Allegretto, 

A 



fe 



I 



±± 



a^ 








• • 








And then what can excel the flow and beauty of his vocal 
music, especially in that wonderful legacy of genius — the operas, 



148 MUSIC AND SUNSHINE. 

Don Giovanni (with its invigorating " Non piu andrai,") Le 
Nozze di Figaro^ Idomeneo (with its cheering " Placida e il 
Mare "), and a hundred other gems ? 

The exuberant vividness of his imagination is probably more 
marked and developed in his instrumental than in his vocal 
works, — and yet he never halts or hesitates in the healthy 
production of either. 

All Mozart's music is fragrant with the two great essentials of 
good poetry and music, — Beauty and Truth. In its character 
of beautiful, it is full of love, tenderness, and all those feelings of 
a poetic, sensitive mind which are the life and soul — the Alpha 
and Omega — of the poet and musician. It is true, as conforming 
to all the rules and canons of art, without which genius is like 
a ship without a rudder — a mind without guide or rest. 

In his private life the maestro was full of fun and frolic ; he 
dearly loved a joke, and would tell an anecdote with much 
vivacity and evident enjoyment. He was fond of billiards and 
dancing, and when a favourable opportunity presented itself, he 
became a decided Bohemian, and thoroughly relished his 
favourite glass of punch. But the muse never forsook him — he 
could compose at any time and. under any circumstances, a 
remarkable instance of which was given by his writing the 
beautiful Overture to Don Giovanni on his return late one night 
from a ball. 

The eloquent tribute to the genius of Mozart by M. Lamartine 
being but little known, it is here reproduced, feeling sure it will 
be acceptable to the reader, and as bearing strongly on the 
points I have ventured to elucidate in this paper. 

" A remarkable fact connected with this young Wolfgang 
Mozart (the most prodigious musical organization that ever 
existed) is that the individual and the man constitute, so to 
speak, in his case, only one being ; music lies with him in his 
cradle ; when he is three years old he stammers out on his 
father's or mother's lap, music instead of words ; music plays 
with him on every sonorous instrument as with the playthings of 
his infancy ; music writes with his hand sonatas for the harpsi- 
chord, fugues for cathedral organs, or operas for the theatres of 
Italy ; she travels with him from Milan to Naples, from Naples 
to Venice, from Venice to Vienna, and from Vienna to Paris, 
culling harmony from all these various languages, climates, 
waves, and winds, as the breeze sweeping over the earth steals 
its sweet odour to perfume itself. Music sobs with him at the 
death-bed of his mother, and takes part in his love ; she writes 
with his dying hand his angelic * Requiem,' thus noting down his 



MUSIC AND SUNSHINE. 1 49 

first and last sigh ; and she passes away with his soul to join the 
celestial concert of which his whole life here below was simply 
the prelude. The character of Mozart's existence is that he was 
not a musician, but music incarnate in a mortal organization." 

The text or theme I have chosen for this paper is fascinating 
and alluring, and, if time and space permitted, much more might 
be said in the same direction of a pleasant and, I think, interest- 
ing character. Enough, however, has been adduced, I hope, to 
show that Music and Sunshine existed largely in the hearts and 
works of Haydn and Mozart ; and that you, gentle reader, may 
experience the same delight in listening to their divinely inspired 
compositions, is the sincere wish of him who has ventured to pen 
these observations and reflections for your delectation and 
approval. 



^5o 



ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 



No. I. — York Minster. 

That stately edifice, York Minster, is known throughout the 
world, not only in the English-speaking countries over which our 
beloved Queen, the Empress of India, supremely reigns, but in 
those foreign lands where the love and knowledge of ancient 
grand and glorious fanes exist. In Germany, Austria, France, 
Switzerland, Belgium, but more especially in America, the 
beauties and fame of this sublime old Cathedral are well known 
to the savants and lovers of beautiful architecture. Not many 
years ago the distinguished poet, Longfellow, came across the 
Atlantic for the express purpose of visiting two places he had 
often heard and read of — York Minster and Bolton Abbey. I 
happened to be on one of my fly-fishing excursions at the latter 
resort when the poet arrived at the Devonshire Hotel. But my 
business on the present occasion is not to talk of poets — the 
romantic and picturesque river Wharfe — James Whittaker, the 
skilled fisherman, whose funeral I attended a short time ago in 
the Abbey Churchyard — or anything but that which immediately 
concerns us — the chief Organs and Organists of the North. 

The large organ placed on the beautiful choir screen in 
York Minster has been famous for generations. In Hopkins 
and Rimbault's valuable work» "The Organ, its history and 
construction " (a recent edition of which has been kindly 
presented to me by the courteous publishers), the following 
description is given of the screen organ : — " This instrument 
was built after the fire at the Minster in 1829 by Messrs. 
Elliott and Hill, under the superintendence of the late organist, 
Dr. Camidge. It was considered the largest in the world, 
containing 80 stops and 8,000 pipes ; it cost about ;^5,ooo, 
including the original gift of the late Earl of Scarborough (who 
was the senior prebendary of the Cathedral at the time the first 
fire occurred) of ;£300. Unhappily, his lordship died before the 
completion of the instrument, so that the remaining ;^2,ooo had 
to be furnished by the chapter, assisted by subscriptions from the 



YORK MINSTER. 



152 RGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

neighbouring nobility, gentry, and clergy. It was, however, his 
lordship's desire and intention to have supplied the sum wanting 
beyond that contracted for: but, as his death occurred so suddenly, 
they were deprived of this advantage. The great nianuals 
contained 4,818 pipes; the swell organ, 1,586 ; the choir organ, 
1,399 ; and the pedal organ, 200." In 1863 the instrument was 
entirely reconstructed by Messrs. Hill, under the superintendence 
of Dr. Monk, the organist at that time ; and it now contains 24 
stops in the great manual, choir 9, swell 14, solo 3, pedal 19, 
making altogether with 17 accessory stops, or pedals of adjust- 
ment, and 2 tremulants, the goodly total of 86. There are two 
organs in York Minster — that just described, and a much newer 
one in the nave, erected in 1863 under the third arch of the 
north aisle, by Hill and Son, from a specification by Dr. Monk 
— designed for the " Special Services." The instrument consists 
of 3 complete manual organs and a pedal organ ; it has 33 stops, 
besides 16 or 17 couplers and pedals of adjustment. 

Of course it is well known to experts that the screen organ is 
not up to the modern organist's idea of what an organ of the first 
class should be, and it is certainly not worthy of the great abilities 
of the present organist. Dr. Naylor. For special use the instru- 
ment has not a sufficient variety of soft stops, and its mechanism 
is not only getting worn out, but is quite inadequate to the wants 
and resources of those who, like Dr. Naylor, travel with the times, 
and require the conveniences, accessories, and effects which are 
to be found in the organs constructed by skilled builders during 
the last thirty years. It ought to be entirely rebuilt— probably 
an outlay of two to three thousand pounds would complete the 
work required. In the reign of the three Camidges — extending 
over a hundred years — the reputation of the York Minster organ 
was unparalleled in Yorkshire ; indeed, the instrument was 
regarded with admiration and something like awe by visitors 
fiom the East and West Riding villages. 

I can recall an interesting illustration of this. When I came 
to Leeds with Sebastian Wesley in 1842, Dr. John Camidge, 
the third of the family who had occupied the organ seat in York 
Minster, and who died in 1859, was reputed to be the finest 
organist in the North, and amateurs spoke of him in terms of 
the greatest admiration. But Wesley, with his marked talent, 
his powers of execution and improvisation, soon undeceived 
those — and there were many here and there — who could mark, 
read, and understand, that the organist of York Minster, who 
was chiefly famed for his playing of the " Chaos " (opening of 
Haydn's Creation) and the "Dead March " in 5^/^/, was now 



I 

. ^ 

r 



YORK MINSTER. 1 53 

entirely left behind with the big-wigs of the old school. I went 
with Wesley to the opening of a new organ at a church in 
Bradford, and afterwards was honoured with an invitation from 
Mr. William Rand to join them at his house to dinner. After 
the ladies had left the room a little dandy gentleman from York, 
with a squint, an eyeglass, and a smirk, said in mellifluous 
tones : — 

" Oh, Dr. Wesley, have you ever heard Dr. Camidge perform 
the ' Dead March ' from Sau/ on the Grand Organ in York 
Minster? Never in my experience of organ playing have I 
heard anything so sublime and heart-touching. The way in 
which he produces the roll of the drums is wonderful and 
thrilling. I'd give the world to know how he does it." 

Dr. Wesley said : " No, sir ; I have not heard Camidge play 
the * Dead March ' myself, but I have been shown by a clever 
musician how it's done, and if you will ask the ladies in the 
drawing-room if it is convenient, I will come and play it." 

" Oh, thanks ! that is so good of you," exclaimed the little 
interrogator. 

Away we all went to the salon^ where Wesley took the piano- 
forte in hand, surrounded by a bevy of fair ladies and fine 
gentlemen, and began his sublime performance of Handel's 
" Dead March " by playing rather softly the well-known first 
three chords, and then turned round and sat upon the two 
lowest octaves of the instrument to represent the drums, thunder, 
or anything else. At first the company thought it was correct 
and serious ; but when the distinguished organist repeated the 
joke and began to wink and twinkle his eyes, loud peals of 
laughter followed, and after making a profound obeisance, and 
humorously observing, " On this occasion, ladies and gentlemen, 
there will be no collection," we and the other gentlemen (except- 
ing the York man, who had quietly taken flight), returned to 
the dining-room, where we had a little more pleasant and healthy 
chat over the walnuts and wine. 

I have already spoken of the screen organ, in which I think 
the reeds are especially fine, and should not be disturbed ; and 
as regards the Nave Organ, it is rather harshly voiced, and 
sounds rough when near, but it tells very well at a little distance. 
I am bound to add, however, that the " inside work " and the 
mechanical arrangements are extremely clumsy, and in this 
respect the instrument is quite unworthy of the place in which 
it stands. 

Of the York Minster organists. Dr. James Nares was the most 
notable in the last century — having succeeded Salisbury in 1734. 



154 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

He migrated in 1756 to London to become organist and 
composer to the Chapel Royal. He was reputed to be a good 
player, but was assuredly rather a weak composer. The most 
favourite anthem by him is, 
" Try me, O God, and prove 
me ;" and, oddly enough, a 
grand nephew of His, a num- 
ber of years in the present 
century, was a candidate for 
a minor canonry, and the 
anthem chosen for him to test 
his vocal abilities was, " Tr>' 
me, O God " — Nares. Of 
course there was no joke 
meant — there never is in a 
cathedral. 

The first of the Camidges 
succeeded Dr. Nares in 1756 
and held the office for nearly 
fifty years. His son Matthew 
followed him in 1803, and he 
in turn was succeeded by his 
eldest son, John, in 1844, who 
died in 1859. 

Dr. Edwin Geoi^e Monk 
became organist on the death 
of Dr. John Camidge, and 
there can be no doubt that he 
greatly advanced the effi- 
ciency of the choir, and took 
an especial interest in the 
musical and genera! educa- 
tion of the boys. He is a 
scholar and a gentleman, and 
highly esteemed by all who 
know him. His retirement 
to Radley, near Oxford, has 
always been regretted by the 
York and county folk. "UVUvj ." . , - . ,.." ^7-^ ■■ 

The present organist is Dr, 
John Naylor, who was born near Leeds in 1838, and became 
organist of York Minster in 1883. By his skill and industry 
he has raised himself from a humble position, and now holds 
one of the most valuable musical appointments in England. 



YORK MINSTER. 1 55 

Undoubtedly he owes much of his success to the cultivated 
tastes and high musical proclivities of his former vicar, the 
Rev. R. Brown Borthwick, of All Saints' Church, Scarborough, 
with whom he worked cordially in the promotion of Church 
music for many years with marked success. 

The daily services in the Minster are admirably conducted — 
the whole of the clergy, especially the worthy and learned Dean 
Cust, takes the deepest interest in their success and rendition. 
The minor canons intone well and in tune — keeping up the pitch 
of the various tones, inflexions, and cadences in conjunction with 
the choir in the most commendable way ; and it is astonishing 
how well the organist and singers keep together, even in abstruse 
and complicated compositions — bearing in mind the magnitude 
of the edifice and its reverberative and resonant character. 
Among the most interesting of special functions may be 
mentioned the military services, which are remarkably good 
and effective. Dr Nay lor has composed several appropriate 
anthems, and scored them for a military band. 

The first military service held in York Minster was the 
"Gordon Memorial Service," April 19, I8^S, the words of the 
anthem, as well as the others, having been selected by the Dean. 
The organ is thoroughly utilized on these and other occasions 
of importance. On Sunday afternoons Dr. Naylor invariably 
plays an important organ work, which is attentively listened to 
by hundreds who remain to hear it. It is a capital plan to have 
the title of the daily voluntary posted up on a notice board, so 
that people get to know something of organ pieces and their 
authors. 

In concluding this notice, I may observe that it is very 
gratifying to those who, as I hope I have done, taken a deep 
interest in organs and the music of the Church, to find such a 
wonderful improvement in the general rendering of the musical 
services during the last 30 years ; indeed, the advancement in 
performance, devotional expression, order, and decorum on the 
part of the choir, afford ample proof of the care and pains 
bestowed upon these important points, and especially on the 
organist of York Minster, Dr. John Naylor. 

I am indebted to Miss Constance Anderson, of York, 
for the original sketches of the two organs from which the above 
illustrations have been taken. 



156 



ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 



No. 2. — RiPON Cathedral. 

After York Minster, its beautiful architecture, its noble pro- 
portions and its two fine organs, the reader must not expect from 
me the same warmth of description for the smaller and less 
important fane at Ripon. Still, Ripon Cathedral is deeply 
interesting to the ecclesiologist as well as to the lover of old 
church music and grand toned organs. I am unable to obtain 
any very extensive information respecting former organs and 
organists, though I may here ackowledge with thanks the 
acquisition of many interesting particulars through the cour- 
tesy of Dr. E. J. Crow, the present clever organist of the 
cathedral. 

It appears that the first-known organ was built by Gerard 
Schmidt (nephew of the famous organ builder, Bernard Schmidt, 
who came to England with his two nephews about the year 1660, 
during the reign of the second Charles) and which was rebuilt by 
Booth, of Leeds, who seems to have ignored the lovely work of 
Father Schmidt, and to have substituted his own — a circumstance 
which has been commented upon 'in stronger terms than I wish 
to do here. Tradition and rumour in Ripon hath it that Gerard 
Schmidt's organ was one of the best the family had made, and 
that its tone was pure and fine, and the question naturally arises 
who persuaded the Dean and Chapter to sacrifice what they 
must have known was an old master-piece, admired and venerated, 
and quoted by all who were experts in organ tone ? However, 
I jump at once from Schmidt's mutilated organ to the splendid 
instrument which now occupies its legitimate position on the 
choir screen, and is the admiration of all who hear it. It is built 
by the eminent firm of Lewis and Co. Here is a description 
thereof : — 

Great Organ — CC to A. • 



I. Bourdon, wood and metal 


• • ■ 


16 feet tone. " 




2. Stopped Diapason, wood and metal 


• • • 


8 






3. Small Open Diapason, wood and metal 


8 






4. Large Open Diapason ... 




8 




' inches 

winH 


5. Hohl-Flote, wood and metal ... 

6. Principal (small) .... 




8 
4 




y* V^ClclVC^ •• ••• ••• ••. 




4 




▼v AllVA. 


8. Octave Quint, wood and metal 




2§ 






9. Super Octave, wood and metal 




2 






10. Mixture 




4 ranks. 




11. Contra Trumpet... 

12. Trumpet ... 

13. Clarion ... ... 




16 feet tone. 
8 „ 
4 » 


7 inches 
I wind. 



RIFON CATHEDRAL. 



Ripoa Minstci Orgi 



158 



ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 



Pedal Organ — CC to CF. 
Radiating and Concave. 

1. Sub Bass, wood ... 32 feet tone. 

2. Sub Bass, wood... ... ... ... 16 

3. Open Bass, wood ... ... .. 16 

4. Violone, wood ... ... ... ... 16 

5. Violoncello, wood ... ... ... 8 

6. Flute Bass, wood ... ... ... 8 

7. Trombone - ... ... ... 16 



»• 



I » 



>> 



» » 



ti 



About 

si 

inches, 
yin. wind. 



This flute bass is a very poor one ; made from the old organ st diap. , 8 feet (oak). 



Choir Organ— CC to A 



1. Lieblich Gedact ... 

2. ,, ,, ... ... 

3. Vox Angelica (pure tin) .. 8 

4. Dolce ... ... ... ... 8 

5. Gamba (pure tin)... ... ... ... 8 

6. Flauto Traverso (harmonic) ... 8 

7. L. Gedact... ... ... ... ... 4 

8. Dulcet (from old choir organ diap.) ... 4 

9. L. Gedact... .. . ... ... 2 

10. Clarionet ... ... ... ... ... 8 

The gedact two feet is stopped up to the top note. The clarionet "goes through." 
Pneumatic action to great and swell to great. Tubular pneumatic to pedal organ 
(in side aisles). The metal is all spotted and substantial, even the pedal trombone. 
The hydraulic engines, by Joy, have been recently removed, and Speight's substituted. 
The organist is stuck inside the case, where he can neither see nor hear during nave 
services. The voices can be well heard in the choir, and a big door, intended by 
Sir G. Scott to remedy this, won't open outwards on account of the tabernacle 
work, or inwards on account of the organ action. 



1 6 feet tone. 
8 



j» 



it 



a 



»» 



It 



it 



it 



ti 



ti 



Swell Organ — CC to A. 

1. Bourdon, wood and metal 

2. Rohr Flote, wood and metal (from old choir, by 

Gerhard Schmidt) 

3. Gamba, Viol de (pure tin) 

4. Voix Celestes (gamba, pure tin) undulating with No 

5. Geigen Principal... 
C. Rohr Flote 

7. Flute Harmonique (tin)... ... 

8. Geigen Principal .. 

9. Flautina . . 

10. Mixture 

11. Contra Trumpet ... 

12. Trumpet .. 

A \% V^ L^vJC ••• •• ••■ ••• ••• ••• 

li!^* v^LanOll .••• ••• •• ••• ••• ••• 

Composition Pedals ... 3 to Gt., 3 to Sw., i to Gt 



16 feet tone. 



8 
8 
8 
8 

4 
4 
4 
2 

3 ranks. 
16 feet tone. 
8 
8 



)) 



>> 



1) 



j» 



» 



>» 






.. 4 
to Ped. 



>» 

it 



3iin- 
wind. 



Couplers 



I. Swell to Gt. 



2. Sw. to Ch. 
5. Gt. to Ped. 



3. Sw. to Ped. 4. Ch. to Ped. 



There is a grandeur and massiveness of tone in this work of 
Lewises which reminded me, when listening to Dr. Crowds 
admirable performance of a grand Prelude and Fugue by the 
immortal Sebastian Bach, of the best organs of Schulze's. But, 
I am bound to admit that the mechanism is not all that it might 



RIPON CATHEDRAL. 1 59 

be, and its defects and deficiences must often cause considerable 
trouble and annoyance to the worthy organist. For instance, I 
found that the composition pedals, or ** pedals of adjustment," 
as they are sometimes called, do not rise after use, and they have 
to be returned by force in putting a stop in. Again, the swell 
to choir coupler is scarcely of any use, and not being pneumatic, 
the touch is very heavy. Probably the Dean and Chapter may 
feel disposed to lay out a little money and rectify these 
undoubted defects in what is otherwise a magnificent organ. 

So far as I can ascertain, the following is a correct 
chronological list of the Ripon Cathedral organists : — 

APPOINTED. 

— Wanlass 

— Wilson (singing man) to play instead of Wanlass, 

who was deaf ... ... May 28, 1670 

William SorreJl ... May 26, 1677 

— Shaw ... ... .. ... ... .. .. No date 

John Hawkins ... May 7, 1682 

Thomas Preston ... .. May 31, 1690 

Thomas Preston, Junr. ... ... May 25, 1 731 

W^illiam Ayrton (father of Dr. William Ayrton) ... June 7, 1748 

Thomas Ayrton (tombstone says was organist 20 years) No date 

W. F. M. Ayrton June 25, 1799 

J. H. Bond ... ... ... ... ... June 26, 1823 

George Bates .. ... ... ... ... .. June 30, 1829 

Dr. E. J. Crow .. .. . . Jan. i, 1874 

The choral strength in Ripon Cathedral is not great, 
consisting only of six lay clerks, twelve choristers, and six 
probationers ; but these, with the able assistance of Dr. Crow's 
deputy, all join to render the choral services with devotional 
fervour and desirable effect. In this matter the able Precentor 
takes a prominent part and a deep interest ; and the same may 
be said of the accomplished venerable Dean and the canons, 
when in residence. The musical services had fallen off woefully 
when Dr. Crow was appointed organist and choirmaster in 1874. 
Since that time the improvement has been signally great ; 
especially good and impressive are the special nave services, 
when there is, of course, an augmented choir, and the music is 
of a broad and less ornate character than that employed in the 
daily choral services in the choir. 

Of Dr. Crow's labours in the cause of the musical art in 
Ripon, Harrogate, and the neighbourhood, much may be 
said. He has been, during his residence in Yorkshire, most 
industrious, most indefatigable ; his compositions alone prove 
this. The fine Communion Service in F, which gained the 
College of Organists' prize, is extensively used " In Quires and 



l6o ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

places where they sing," and among his other excellent works 
may be mentioned a Morning Service in C, Evening Services in 
G, A, and D, a church oratorio for Harvest Festivals, and many 
miscellaneous compositions for the organ, pianoforte, etc. That 
he is not the least distinguished of the numerous musicians who 
have occupied the organ seat in Ripon Cathedral, is a fact, I 
think, patent to all, and I doubt not that his musical abilities are 
highly appreciated wherever they are known and required. 



No. 3.— Leeds Parish Church. 

No parish church in Christendom has exercised more 
ecclesiastical and musical influence for good than that of Leeds. 
In every part of our English-speaking countries where correcpt, 
attractive, and elevating music and ritual are required, depend 
on it the example and practice of the Leeds Parish Church are 
sure to be considered, and, in the majority of cases, followed. 
I need scarcely add that this was one of the results of Dr. 
Hook's advent to Leeds in 1837. Before his time the church 
services in all the large parishes of Yorkshire and Lancashire 
were pretty much of the same tame, hum-drum character ; no 
life, zeal, or animated work to be found anywhere ; but Dr. 
Hook, with his wonderful energy and self-denial, soon changed 
the dreary desert into a luxuriant valley, and his vicariate 
duties of 22 years bore testimony to his unflagging industry and 
his glorious success. 

Very little is known of the organs or organists of the Parish 
Church before the memorable election of Mr. Greenwood in 
1821. It is, however, briefly recorded that in 1714 "the organ 
in the Leeds Parish Church was set up and first used on Sunday, 
August 29th ; Mr. John Carr, from Norwich, organist. '* As it 
is probable that no such scenes were ever known as the contest 
for the appointment of organist in July, 1821, and an account of 
which will doubtless prove highly interesting to a large number 
of local organists, the clergy, and all who care for anything 
connected with the past history of our Parish Church, I have 
taken some pains to ransack the records of the period, and to 
ferret out truthful accounts of these singular and exciting 
proceedings. 

There were three candidates — Greenwood, Hopkinson, and 
Theaker. After the churchwardens had carefully considered 
their respective claims, both at formal and informal meetings, 



/ 



LEEUS PARISH CHURCH. 



1 62 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

the following resolution was unanimously agreed to : — ** Resolved, 
that in order to meet the wishes of the candidates for the 
situation of organist for the Parish Church at Leeds, as publicly 
expressed by them, and to ascertain their respective qualifica- 
tions, it is the opinion of the churchwardens that they should 
individually perform on the organ at such a time and place as 
may be mutually agreed upon, and in the presence of a 
competent judge, who shall be requested to report thereupon.'' 
Greenwood and Theaker agreed to adopt the suggestions of the 
churchwardens, and to abide by the decision of the judge, but 
Hopkinson*s committee " present their respectful compliments 
to Mr. Maude (senior churchwarden) and his colleagues," and by 
letter declined to accept the mode of election proposed. Mr. 
Maude, on behalf of the wardens, replied that they would like 
Mr. Hopkinson to attend the choir rehearsal on Friday evening, 
and " practise with the choristers, and also play the service at 
the church on the following Sunday.*' In answer to this 
proposal, Hopkinson's committee desired to " express their 
surprise at such a request, knowing the decided partiality the 
major part of the churchwardens have evinced, and which some 
of them have confessed themselves to continue in favour of one 
of the candidates." It being evident that Hopkinson possessed 
many influential friends and supporters, Mr. Maude v/rote and 
pubHshed a letter on June i8th, 1821, addressed '*To the Lay- 
payers of the Parish Church of Leeds," in which they reiterate 
their desire to act fairly and justly in the matter ; and, '* with a 
view to settling the mode of election, invited two of Mr. 
Hopkinson's committee to meet the wardens at G. Wood's, Star 
and Garter, this evening." 

At this meeting the churchwardens again expressed their 
earnest wish " that the candidates should publicly perform on 
the organ before some competent judge," but the Hopkinson 
party still objected to this course (they had good reasons, it was 
stated, for adopting this line of action), though afterwards! at 
the eleventh hour, Mr. Hopkinson's committee " respectfully 
acquaint you (the wardens) that he never once had any 
hesitation to comply with the expression of your wishes ; and 
should you on the day of election wish him to play before you, 
he will cheerfully obey your call." The ultimate result of all 
this was that the candidates should go to the poll, and the 
scenes and excitement which took place on that memorable 
occasion may be best learnt from the following epitome of a 
long notice of the proceedings which appeared in the local 
papers of July 7th, 1821 : — 



LEEDS PARISH CHURCH. 1 63 

Election of Organist. 

We have in Leeds this week all the animation of a scot and 
lot election. The appointment of an organist for the Leeds 
Parish Church has excited a strong local interest, and the right 
of election being vested in the parishioner lay-payers, the 
attendance at the Parish Church on Wednesday at noon, the 
hour appointed for the purpose, was so numerous that it soon 
became evident that a wider and more appropriate field of 
action was necessary for the purpose of the business of the day. 
At 12 o'clock the Rev. Richard Fawcett, the vicar, took the 
chair in the vestry, where an adjournment to the area of the 
White Cloth Hall was immediately proposed and carried. The 
numbers assembled in the course of the afternoon could not be 
short of from six to eight thousand persons. Music and 
standards accompanied some of the divisions of voters from the 
neighbouring villages to the poll, and the scene exhibited in this 
part of the town wore all the features of a contested election, 
with the exception of the riot and dissipation which so 
frequently prevail in Parliamentary contests. It soon became 
evident that Mr. Greenwood was the popular candidate, and the 
struggle would be between Mr. Hopkinson and that gentleman, 
though Mr. Theaker ranked among his friends a considerable 
number of highly-respectable parishioners. The steps on the 
southern side of the interior square of the Cloth Hall formed 
good substantial hustings, on which the Vicar, surrounded by a 
number of his parishioners, took his station, and the gradual 
ascent of the yard gave to the scene below the appearance of a 
crowded amphitheatre. The Chairman having read the notice 
convening a vestry meeting, for the purpose of appointing an 
organist, or delegating the power to a competent judge, 
proceeded to state what he considered the qualifications of a 
person filling that office ; which were, first, an irreproachable 
character ; second, competent skill upon the instrument ; and 
third, general musical talent ; the two former he perceived to be 
indispensable, and the last highly desirable. As so much zeal 
had been shown to promote harmony in the Church, he hoped 
the electors would display equal zeal in maintaining the 
harmony of the parish. Mr. Baines said it appeared from the 
notice which had been read that the meeting had two duties to 
perform — first, to fix a salary ; and, second, to elect an organist. 
He wished to guard the parishioners against any profusion in 
the expenditure of the public money. Their feelings were at 
present strongly excited, and as every elector naturally hoped 
and expected that his own friend would be the successful 



1^4 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

candidate, there was reason to fear that they might be disposed 
to fix the salary to be paid to the organist in future on a scale 
of undue liberality. The salary had been hitherto ;^SO a year, 
and that was probably sufficient when the advantages incident 
to the situation were taken into consideration. Less he should 
not propose, and the experience of the last month had proved 
was unnecessary. In the election of an organist he was not 
inclined to take any part except as a mediator. 

After further enlargement of the subject, Mr. Baines concluded 
by moving two resolutions — first, " That the organises salary be 
£^0 per annum in future, including the £6 paid by the trustees 
of Mr. Bannister's will ; " and second, " That whatever might be 
the result of the election, Mr. Greenwood should be paid after 
this rate for the time he had discharged the duties of organist." 
These resolutions were then put from the Chair, and carried 
unanimously. The respective candidates were put in alpha- 
betical order. By this arrangement Mr. Greenwood took the 
precedence, and was proposed by Mr. Charles Wood^ seconded 
by Mr. John Hirst ; Mr. Hopkinson was propose^- by Mr. 
William Hey (Mayor), seconded by Mr. Samuel Smith ; and 
Mr. Theaker was proposed by Mr. Abraham Hobson, seconded 
by Mr. Joseph Wood. Mr. Henry Hall wished the matter 
settled without proceeding to a poll, in the manner proposed by 
the Churchwardens. . . . ** He had for a good part of 50 
years attended the Parish Church twice every Sunday, and he 
hoped to stick to the old mother Church to the end of his life ; 
but he felt a very warm wish that the service should be 
performed in such a way as would cause him to feel satisfaction 
in attending." After Hopkinson's committee had again objected 
to any other mode of election than polling the " lay-payers," 
Mr. Livesey ** made a speech full of point and humour." He 
ridiculed what had been said about choosing a townsman only, 
and observed that if this principle had always been acted upon 
Leeds would have lost the services of some of the cleverest and 
most intellectual men who had filled posts of the greatest value 
and importance — to wit, their former deeply respected Vicar, 
the Rev. Peter H addon ; the lecturer was not a townsman; 
neither the sexton nor the clerk, and yet the former could 
measure a grave as well as if he had. been born in one, and the 
latter could give the nasal twang to the " Amen " as well as if 
he had drawn his first breath in a reading-desk. The curates of 
Hunslet, Holbeck, and Armley were none of them natives 
of this parish, neither were the incumbents of St. Paul's, St. 
John's, or St. James'. The masters of the Free Grammar 



LEEDS PARISH CHURCH. 165 

School ; the learned Recorder, who neither lacked learning, 
lungs, nor loquacity ; the eminent surgeon, Mr. William Hey ; 
and those clever musicians, Mr. Warburton, Mr. Lawton, and 
Mr. Higenbotham — none of them born in Leeds. . . . Away 
then with the cant about natives, and give the organ to that 
candidate who, on trial of his skill, shall be found- the most 
competent to draw sweet music from its pipes. 

After some remarks from Mr. Lees and Mr. John Ward, Mr. 
John Cawood said : " I call upon you to stand firm to-day, and 
as Mr. Greenwood and Mr. Theaker are ready to let you hear 
their abilities, I have to ask Mr. Hopkinson to redeem his 
pledge, and his committee not to push their candidate to the 
poll, in order that they may keep their candidate from playing 
before you." Mr. Sigstone spoke in for Mr. Hopkinson, and 
read testimonials in his favour from Colonel Dixon, Major 
Allen, Mr. W. D. Lever, and Mr. J. W. Tottie. Mr. John Heaps 
supported Mr. Greenwood, and in a speech of considerable 
length expatiated on his merits, and especially lauded his 
"independence, conscientiousness, and unselfishness." The 
amendment having been negatived, Mr. Hopkinson came 
forward and demanded a poll, which was begun at half-past 
three o'clock, in the piazzas at the top of the Cloth Hall Yard, 
at sixteen different booths. On the first day the wardens 
announced the state of the poll to be : — 

Greenwood ... ... .. .. ... 1,481 

Hopkinson ... 777 

Theaker... ... ... ... ... 198 

It was thought that this would settle the business, and Mr. 
Greenwood's friends placed their candidate in a chair and 
carried him round the Cloth Hall Yard and through some of the 
principal streets in triumph. But the business was not over. 
Hopkinson's friends insisted on the poll being resumed the next 
and following day (the Recorder having given his opinion that 
this course was legal), and, this being done, the following state- 
ment was made of the aggregate return of votes in the township 
of Leeds and the villages within the parish : — 

Greenwood. Hopkinson. Theaker. 

Leeds Township ... 1402 644 232 

Bramley ... .. ... 116 68 2 

Headingley ... ... 13 39 2 

Beeston ... ... ... 138 21 o 

Potternewton ... ... 96 126 o 

Hunslet .. 504 15 o 

Famley ... ... 26 10 o 

Armley ... ... ... 129 114 o 

Holbeck ... 117 4 o 

Wortley 67 164 3 

2608 I 242 239 



1 66 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

Mr. Greenwood was, therefore, duly elected and installed as 
organist of Leeds Parish Church ; but how long he remained 
there I cannot discover, nor do I find that he had written or 
published anything save an excellently arranged volume of 
sterling Psalm tunes, which Dr. Wesley used to examine with 
much interest when he became organist. Greenwood had the 
reputation of being a brilliant performer, and good at improvisa- 
tion ; but beyond this very little is known or recorded of his 
musical work in the town. 

We next hear of Mr. Henry Smith as organist. He was a 
highly respected pianoforte teacher in the town, and was well 
known at private parties for his facile performance of Mozart's 
beautiful overture to Figaro, which he used to play (I have often 
heard) in his own time— not in that of the tamous Covent 
Garden orchestra, under Costa. He married a daughter of Mr. 
Henry Skelton, of " The Castle," Headingley, and shortly after- 
wards resigned his office at the Parish Church and retired from 
the musical profession. 

Then came the glorious Wesley period. James Hill, of 
Dublin, had been elected choir-master before Wesley's advent, 
and he brought with him his young nephew, who possessed 
a lovely soprano voice, and sang the anthem solos, etc., with 
great taste and devotional effect. After the solemn and impos- 
ing ceremony of re-opening and consecrating the new church of 
St. Peter — for which Dr. Hook had (chiefly) collected subscrip- 
tions to the amount of £'22,770 6s. 8d., on Thursday, September 
2nd, 1841, the organ was rebuilt by the Brothers Greenwood, and 
a fine 32ft. wood pedal stop included in the scheme. On the 
recommendation of Mr. Martin Cawood, who was the vicar's 
right-hand man in matters musical, Dr. Samuel Sebastian 
Wesley (then organist of Exeter Cathedral) was engaged to 
open the organ. He was so much impressed with the wealth of 
Leeds, and delighted to be asked by two rich merchants to 
select grand Broadwood pianofortes for them, that bearing 
in mind his disagreement with Dean Lowe at Exeter, he forth- 
with accepted from the vicar and churchwardens the offer 
of organist at ;^20O per annum, guaranteed for ten years. 
Wesley did not get quite settled down until early in 1842. He 
had, left me (I had only served one out of my four years* 
articles) to take charge of the Cathedral Organ and Choir 
at Exeter for three months ; but at his request, I joined him at 
Leeds on April 3rd, 1842. Wesley's magnificent service and 
solo playing soon became famous, and this, with Dr. Hook's 
eloquent preaching, together with the beautifully performed 



LEEDS PARISH CHURCH. 1 67 

full Choral Services (never before heard in Leeds) attracted 
large, overflowing congregations on all occasions — especially on 
Sunday mornings and evenings, when it was very difficult for a 
non-pewholder to get a seat. 

Aiter a year or two the distinguished organist got across with 
Mr. Hill, the able and indefatigable choir-master — Wesley's 
object being to get the whole business into his own hands. 
After some months of wrangling with Hill and interviewing the 
vicar and wardens, Mr. Hill had notice to leave, and Wesley 
then took the entire direction of the choir and the training 
of the boys. He appointed me his deputy, and for jthree or four 
years I attended in the vestry every morning at eight o'clock 
and taught the boys, most of whom possessed beautiful voices, 
and sang with much acceptance to the clergy and congregation. 
It was during his organistship of the Leeds Parish Church that 
Wesley, at the instigation of Mr. Martin Cawood (who gave him 
50 guineas for the copyright) composed that fine " Complete 
Cathedral Service in E Major" which, though not uniformly 
excellent, contains some of the most beautiful writing 
(especially the Nicene Creed) to be found in the whole repertory 
of Church music. His introductions to the Anthems, particu- 
larly when those great favourites, "The wilderness and the 
solitary place '* and " Blessed be the God and Father," were on 
the list for performance, displayed his genius in the highest 
degree, and I doubt if we shall ever hear the like again. 
After about six years, and not until there had been some 
" friction " between the vicar and himself, Wesley obtained the 
appointment of organist at Winchester Cathedral, and after 1 5 
years there he obtained Gloucester Cathedral, where he remained 
until his death, in April, 1876, at the age of 66. He was buried 
at the Old Cemetery, Exeter, by the side of his only daughter. 

In 1849 Wesley was succeeded, by arrangement with the 
vicar and the retiring organist, by Mr. Robert Senior Burton. 
The " arrangement," however, was not considered quite satisfac- 
tory, and a trial at York ended a pecuniary dispute, in which 
Wesley triumphed. It was indeed difficult to follow such a 
genius as Samuel Sebastian Wesley, but Mr. Burton brought 
with him*great energy, determination, and a brilliancy of finger- 
ing in his organ playing that greatly delighted a large number 
of his hearers. Mr. Burton had certainly not had the advantage 
of a cathedral choir education, nor were his ecclesiastical yearn- 
ings of a very strong character. And yet he took infinite pains 
with the choir during his over 30 years* services at the church, 
the singing being always regarded with considerable admiration 



1 68 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

and satisfaction. As a composer he did little or nothing, his 
chief object being apparently to obtain from existing good 
works a correct and effective performance, and in this laudable 
effort he generally succeeded admirably. 

Dr. William Creser followed Mr. Burton in 1881. He brought 
good credentials with him. He had been a chorister in York 
Minster, a pupil of Mr. Joseph Barnby, Mr. Samuel Gee, and 
Professor Macfarren. He was organist of St. Martin's, Scar- 
borough, for six years, and there he was well dosed with 
Gregorianism. He took his degree of Mus. Bac. at Oxford in 
1869, and his Doctorate in 1880, composing for each the 
necessary exercises in five and eight parts, with orchestral 
accompaniments. Among his other works are : — Eudora ; 
Cantata, first performed in Leeds in November, 1882 ; Mass in 
C, first performed by the Armley and Wortley Choral Society ; 
Cantata, Prince Henry of Hohenecky for chorus, solo voices, 
and orchestra ; Latin version of *' Luther's Hymn," for chorus, 
baritone solo, and orchestra ; Motet for eight voices, unaccom- 
panied, complete setting of the 46th Psalm, " God is our hope 
and strength," which has been sung twice at the Parish Church ; 
a complete solemn service in B minor, the Magnificat and Nunc 
Dtmittis has been sung at the Parish Church ; Longfellow's 
Tegner^s Drapa^ or Song of Balder, for chorus, tenor solo, and 
orchestra ; The Sacrifice of Freia, cantata for chorus, solo voices, 
and orchestra, Leeds Festival, 1889 ; Quartet in A minor, for 
two violins, viola, and violoncello, first performed at the London 
Conference of the Society of Professional Musicians and at the 
concerts of the Society of Musical Artists ; Trio in A major, for 
violin, violoncello, and pianoforte ; organ music — Andante in C 
minor, concluding Voluntary in A, Prelude and Fugue in C, for 
the Organists^ Quarterly Journal, first organ Sonata in A ; also 
many songs and detached pieces. This is an excellent record, 
sufficient to place Dr. Creser in a high position among his 
brother composers. His services at the Parish Church as 
organist and choir-master are invaluable ; he spares neither 
pains nor trouble to render all the music with steady accuracy, 
reverence, and legitimate effect. 

I attended " Evensong " on the First Sunday in November, 
the day following All Saints, and was extremely gratified, 
edified, and, indeed, delighted with nearly everything I heard — 
from the opening voluntary by Smart to the same composer's 
Postlude in D as the concluding voluntary. The choir consisted 
of 21 chorister boys and 19 song-men, who, with six clergymen, 
made up a goodly procession, the hymn sung being No. 221, A. 



LEEDS PARISH CHURCH. 1 69 

and M., ** Let saints on earth in concert sing," to the grand old 
tune, ** French," or '^ Dundee," as it is sometimes named. The 
prayers were admirably intoned by Precentor Wynn Healey, 
who not only has an excellent baritone voice, but, best of all, 
articulates with great distinctness, giving every syllable its full 
value, and does not, as I have heard some do in similar positions, 
swallow the tails of his words. The Psalms of the day brought 
out two fine chants, by Flintoft and Goss, but the transition 
from the first to the second is not a happy one. The Magnificat 
to Stainer's setting in E is somewhat peculiar and erratic, but of 
course contains good part-writing. Dykes's favourite anthem, 
" These are they,'* was, with occasional slips of time in the 
charming tenor solo, beautifully rendered, especially good being 
Dr. Creser's accompaniment. In listening to this devotional 
anthem, I could but recall Henry Smart's well-known remark — 
" Dr. Dykes is a musician among parsons, and a parson among 
musicians." In the hymn (427, A. and M.), *' Who are those 
like stars appearing?" the congregation asserted their right to 
sing and be heard. The effect was fine, though it must be 
admitted the " people '* did not always keep up to the time of 
the choir. Dr. Talbot preached the sermon — a discourse which 
no one could listen to without being instructed, improved, and 
elevated. His theme was '* Reverence," which, of course, 
included piety, theism, faith, theopathy, unction, grace, and 
sanctitude. His allusion to the beauties of nature, as illustrated 
in our neighbouring Bolton Abbey, the woods, hills, valleys, and 
sylvan scenes, was extremely happy and touching ; still more so, 
in my heart, was the reverence he claimed for holy places and 
holy adjuncts, especially the soul-inspiring works of the great 
masters of music ; " forms of beauty fitted to refine the mind, to 
solemnise, to elevate, and to quicken devotion." I should like 
to expatiate a little on this tempting theme, but time and space 
forbid. 

We will now turn our attention to the organ itself, the whole 
of the pipes and mechanism of which stand behind the beautiful 
carved screen. The organ in the Parish Church of Leeds, as 
rebuilt in 1883 by Mr. Abbott, under the supervision of Mr. 
Walker Joy, who contributed liberally towards the necessary 
expense, consists of 4 manuals and a pedale.* The following 

* The above was written on the faith of statements made to the writer that 
Mr. Walker Joy had contributed largely towards the expenses, etc. Mr. Abbott, 
the organ-builder, has, however, addressed to me a letter on the subject, which 
I think in justice to him should be made public, as it appears clear that Mr. 
Abbott, and not Mr. Walker Joy, was the munificent friend of the Parish Church 
authorities. 



170 



ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 



are the stops, each of which (except where otherwise stated) 
extends throughout the entire compass of the instrument : — 

Pedal Organ. (Wind pressure 3f inches.) 



I. 


Sub Bass 




32 ft. 


6. Violoncello 


8. ft. 


2. 


Open Ba-ss 




16 ft. 


7. Mixture (4 ranks) 




3- 


Violone ... 




16 ft. 


8. Contra Trombone 


32 ft. 


4- 


Bourdon... 




16 ft. 


9. Trombone 


16 ft. 


5- 


Flute Bass 




8 ft. 


10. Clarion 


8 ft. 




Great Organ. 


(Wind pressure 3f inches.) 




II. 


Sub-Bourdon .. 




32 ft. 


21. Octave 


4 ft. 


12. 


Double Open Diap. 




16 ft. 


22. Harmonic Flute 


4 It. 


13. 


Bourdon 




16 ft. 


23. Nazard 


2|ft. 


14. 


Large Open Diap. 




8 ft. 


24. Super Octave ... 


2 ft. 


15. 


Small Open Diap. 




8 ft. 


25. Mixture (3 ranks) 




16. 


Salicional 




8 ft. 


26. Mixture (5 ranks) 




17- 


Pierced Gamba 




8 ft. 


27. Double Trumpet 


16 ft. 


18. 


HohlFlote 




8 ft. 


28. Posaune 


8 ft. 


19. 


Gedact 




8 ft. 


29. Tromba 


8 ft. 


20. 


Quint 




6 ft. 


30. C^larion ... 


4 ft. 




On a separate 


sound -board. 


(Wind pressure 7 inches.) 






31, Tuba 


• • • 


• • • 


Q ft 






Swell Organ 


. (Wii 


id pressure 3 inches.) 




32. 


Double Open Diap. 


* • • 


16 ft. 


41. Octave Quint 


2fft. 


33. 


Bourdon 


• • • 


16 ft. 


42. Super Octave 


2 ft. 


34. 


Open Diapason 


• • • 


8 ft. 


43. Mixture (5 ranks) 




35- 


Cane Gamba . . . 


... 


8 ft. 


44. Contra Fagotto 


16 ft. 


36. 


Dulciana 


■ • » 


8 ft. 


45* Horn 


8 ft. 


37. 


Violin e'Cello ... 


■ • ■ 


8 ft. 


46. Trumpet 


8 ft. 


38. 


Violin Diapason 


■ ■ • 


8 ft. 


47. Oboe 


8 ft. 


39. 


Wald Flote 


• • • 


4 ft. 


48. Vox Humana ... 


8 ft. 


40. 


Octave 


■ • • 


4 ft. 


49. Clarion ... .. 


4 ft. 



Stops Nos. 4 and 5, used in combination, produce the ** Voix Celeste," the 

Dulciana being tuned slightly ** sharp." 
A Tremulant is attached to this organ. 



Choir 


Organ. (Wind pressure 2J inches.) 






50. Bourdon 


16 ft. 


55. Gemshorn 




4 ft. 


51. Geigen Principal 


8 ft. 


56. Gedact Flute ... 




4 ft. 


52. Salicional 


8 ft. 


57. Orchestral Oboe 




8 ft. 


53. Gedact 


8 ft. 


58. Clarionet 




8 ft. 


54. Flauto Traverso 


8 ft. 


59. Corno-di-Bassetto 




• 8 ft. 


The 3 imitative stops, 


Nos. 8, 9, and 10, are placed in a separate 


Swell box. 


Echo Organ. (Wind pressure ij inches.) 






60. Lieblich Bourdon 


16 ft. 


66. LiebUch Gedact 


■ ■ • 


8 ft. 


61. Open Principal .. . 


8 ft. 


67. Lieblich Flute ... 


> • • 


4 ft. 


62. Viol di Gamba ... 


8 ft. 


68. Octave ... 


• • • 


4 ft. 


63. Dolce 


8 ft. 


69. Flauto Dolce ... 


• • • 


4 ft. 


64. Flauto Traverso 


8 ft. 


70. Flautina 


• « • 


2 ft. 


65. Echo Oboe 


8 ft. 










Couplers. 






71. Swell to Great. 




74. Great to Pedal. 






72. Swell to Choir. 




75. Swell to Pedal. 






73. Choir to Great. 




76. Choir to Pedal. 







LEEDS PARISH CHURCH. 171 

Composition Pedals. 
4 to Great and Pedal Organ. 3 to Swell Organ 



I Foot Pedal, ** Great to Pedal. * 

Summary. 

Pedal Organ 
Great Organ 
Swell Organ 
Choir Organ 
Echo Organ 
Manual and Pedal Couplers 



c Foot Pedal, '* iijwell to Great." 



10 Stops. 390 Pipes. 

21 „ 1,500 ,, 

17 „ 1. 164 „ 

10 ,, 492 ,, 

11 „ 616 ,, 



6 



it 



75 Stops. 4,162 Pipes. 



Before Messrs. Abbott and Walker Joy touched the organ it 
had been almost rebuilt by those distinguished organ builders, 
Hill, of London, and Schultze, of Germany. The former made 
the new swell, and the latter re-voiced all the stops in the great 
organ, and put in the fine open diapason, which was the admira- 
tion of all who heard it, both for body of tone and free speech. 
The choir organ also came under Schultze's artistic hands, and 
the echo organ was entirely his own original work. The choir 
organ, as Schultze left it, was placed at the back of the great 
organ — under the swell. When the alterations were made in 
1883 it was necessary to find room for the new stops which were 
to be put in the great organ, the additions being a three 2ft. 
(tenor C), a pierced gamba, salicional, hohl fliite, and an 8ft. 
tuba (7in. pressure). These required a separate sound-board, 
and everyone judged that if the choir organ was taken away 
from under the swell, and placed as in Cathedral organs in the 
front, it would be a great improvement. But there were 
complications and diflftculties in the way, the ultimate result 
being that the choir organ was placed in front of the great, and 
thus the tone of the unparalleled open diapason by Schultze, 
and other work, was spoilt. The chief improvement was in 
applying a pneumatic action to the great, swell, and pedal, thus 
rendering the touch very much lighter and more agreeable. In 
the pedale, the new stops were violoncello (8), clarion (8) ; in 
the choir, orchestral oboe, clarionet, vox angelica ; and for the 
echo organ, an echo oboe, and flautina (2ft.). 

It will at once be seen by experts, from the above, that 
the Leeds Parish Church Organ is one of the largest of its class 
in Great Britain, and, in some respects, one of the best. For my 
own part, I miss the grand tone of the great organ as Schultze 
left it, especially in the compound, or mixture, stops — where a 
tierce is evidently required to secure increased brilliancy and 
power. Why cannot this be accomplished ? 



172 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

No. 4.— Halifax Parish Church. 

Interesting as is the history of the Leeds Parish Church 
organs and organists, it is possible that some may think that 
of Halifax eclipses it. At any rate, the stories and facts 
connected with the building of the organ by the celebrated John 
Snetzler in 1766, and the subsequent trial of skill between Mr. 
(afterwards Sir) William Herschel, the distinguished astronomer, 
and four other players for the post of organist, are full of 
interest, instruction, and amusement. The organ which Snetzler 
built for St. Margaret's Church, King's Lynn, Norfolk, in 1754, 
under the superintendence of the famous musical historian. Dr. 
Burney, soon attracted the attention and admiration of numerous 
amateur organists and connoisseurs in different parts of the 
country — the result being that his services were sought for 
everywhere, and he built no fewer than thirty-five splendid 
organs, from the profits of which he saved sufficient to return 
and settle in his native country ; but not for long, for he found 
in his old age that he had been so much accustomed to English 
fare and London porter that he could not do without them, so 
he came back to London, where he died in the early part of the 
present century. From an interesting " History of the Halifax 
Parish Church Organ," compiled by Dr. Roberts in 1878, I am 
enabled to extract and epitomise a few statements which will 
(added to my own investigations) be of advantage to those who 
desire to obtain accurate information on a subject of much 
concern to organists generally, and especially to those who feel 
and take an interest in the grand old church, and its fine order 
of services. I may mention, en passant, that Snetzler built the 
first organ in this country provided with a pedal clavier — that 
for the Lutheran Chapel in the Savoy, London. 

Dr. Wainwright, who contested for the appointment with 
Herschel in 1766, was the composer of the favourite Christmas 
hymn, " Christians awake ; " he had the reputation of being a 
showy, brilliant player, but the eccentric builder did not like 
this style, and he rapidly paced the church, exclaiming, " He do 
run over the keys like one cat, and do not give my pipes time 
to shpeak ! " Herschel's playing was more dignified, and the 
excitable builder, after hearing the future astronomer in 
uncommon richness and volume of slow harmony, finishing his 
extemporaneous effusion with a steady and dignified performance 
of the Old Hundredth Psalm tune, drew from the delighted 
Snetzler the exclamation — " Aye, aye ; tish is vary goot indeed. 
I will luf this man, he gives my pipes room for to shpeak." 



174 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

Herschel afterwards explained that when he went to play he 
used two pieces of lead to hold down some of the lowest notes 
on the keys — there being no pedals at that time. After a few 
years Herschel was appointed organist of the Octagon Chapel, 
Bath. 

There is a pretty story told by Elise Polko in one of her 
collections of romances about Herschel, which is worth noticing, 
if only briefly and condensed. Oddly enough the scene is laid 
in Leeds : — Outside a fourth-floor window, in one of those 
narrow streets which led to the Market Place (at that time 
also remarkably narrow), there were seen, usually in the autumn 
of the year 1758, several pots which stood upon a narrow board, 
skilfully supported, and in which rosemary, mignonette, and 
evergreens were growing in fertile richness. True, a stranger 
lived there — a foreigner who had crossed the channel ; every 
child in the neighbourhood knew that. Each morning his young 
face appeared behind the green, bending with evident pleasure 
over the plants, which he was accustomed to water with the 
greatest care. The youth, according to the fashion of the times, 
wore slightly powdered hair, carefully tied at the neck with a 
black bow. The intelligent forehead and the bright eyes 
appeared doubly handsome in this curious setting of abundant 
hair ; a cheerful expression, such as only a glad heart can paint 
upon the countenance, was upon his lips, and his cheeks were 
fresh as those of a Highlander. He might be known as a 
" foreigner " twenty paces off* ; in Leeds he was called only by 
the name of *' foreign music-master ; " his pupils would, however, 
secretly say, " the handsome music-master." His real name was 
Friedrich Wilhelm Herschel, a name not easily pronounced by 
English tongues, for which cause the citizens preferred not to 
pronounce it at all. The son of a simple Hanoverian musician, 
he had gone to London to perfect himself in music, where an 
Earl Darlington appointed him master of a choir, tp be formed 
in the county of Durham. When this choir was thoroughly 
trained, and there remained nothing further to be done, the 
young man, provided with introductions from his patron, 
proceeded to Leeds, where he established himself as a music- 
master, looking forward to the reversion of an organist's post at 
Halifax, where the organist was old and infirm. In Leeds no 
one could have been more fortunate ; the only music-master 
there was grey-headed, grew more deaf every day, and, besides 
this, took snuff, so that the water ran from his eyes, and in very 
deed he could neither see nor hear ; it was certainly high time 
that all the pretty hands and fingers of the girl-world of Leeds 



HALIFAX PARISH CHURCH. 



175 



should be entrusted to better keeping ; and a better guide than 
the blue-eyed foreigner, who spoke so charmingly in broken 
English, and gave such kindly greetings, could never be desired ; 
so, at any rate, thought the maidens themselves. Never had so 
many spinets and so few false notes been heard in the good 
town as in the time of the foreign music-master ; and when, on 
one occasion, he even played for the organist of the Parish 
Church, the gloomy edifice was like a cheerfully smiling garden 
— the brightest girl-flowers blossomed in every corner. 

It will be interesting here to give a synopsis of the Halifax 
organ as Snetzler left it : — 



Great Organ. — GG to E. 

1. Open diapason 8ft. 

2. Open diapason ... ... ... ... 8ft. 

3. Stopped diapason ... ... ... ... 8ft. 

4. Principal ... ... ... ... ... 4^t. 

S* -^ nTdKlXl ••• ••• •'«• ••• ••■ 4»9iL* 

6. Fifteenth 2ft. 

7. Ses-quialtera, IV. ranks ... — 

8. Furniture, III. do. ... ... ... — 

9. Mounted cornet, V. do. (to middle C.) .. — 

10. Trumpet ... ... ... ... ... 8ft. 

11. Clarion ... 4ft. 

Choir Organ.— GG to E. 

12. Open diapason 8ft. 

13. Stopped diapason 8ft. 

14. Vox Humana ... ... ... ... 8ft. 

15. Principal ... 4ft. 

16. Flute ... ... ... ... ... ... 4^^* 

17. Fifteenth 2ft. 

18. Bassoon (treble and bass) ... ... ... 8ft. 



Echo Organ.— Fiddle G to E. 



57 pipes. 
57 pipes. 
57 pipes. 
57 pipes. 
57 pipes. 

57 pipes. 
228 pipes. 
171 pipes. 
145 pipes. 

57 pipes. 

28 pipes. 



57 pipes. 
57 pipes. 
57 pipes. 
57 pipes. 
57 pipes. 
57 pipes. 
57 pipes. 



19. Open diapason 

20. Stopped diapason ... 

21. Principal 

22. Sesquialtera, III. ranks 

23. Oboe ... 

24. Trumpet 



8ft. 
8ft. 
4ft. 

8ft. 
8ft. 



399 pipes. 



34 pipes. 

34 pipes. 
34 pipes. 
102 pipes. 
34 pipes. 
34 pipes. 



Total number of pipes, 1,642. 



272 pipes. 



The Echo Organ was the Swell Organ : the pipes were 
enclosed in a box, and a swell pedal attached. There was 
neither pedal organ nor pedal action ; further, it had no 
couplers, and no composition pedals. 



176 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

Mr. William Stopford was the next organist. He was in 
office for S3 years, and died at the ripe old age of TT^ in 
September, 18 19. 

Then came Mr. John Houldsworth, who had been assistant to 
Mr. Stopford, and who published an edition of Cheetham's 
Psalmody in 1834. After him a Mr. Sharp, from York, and he 
was followed by the well-known and respected Mr. J. H. 
Frobisher, who was appointed in 1838, and held office until 
August, 1862. 

Then Mr. H. E. Moore was chosen the sixth organist in 1862, 
and held the post till early in 1868 

Mr. (now Dr.) J. Varley Roberts, was appointed, after 
competition before Dr. E. J. Monk, organist of York Minster, in 
April, 1868. Alterations and additions had been made to the 
organ by various builders — the Greenwoods, of Leeds, 1825 ; 
Gray, of London, in 1837 ; Hill, of London, in 1843 ; and re- 
built by the same firm under Dr. Roberts' supervision in 1869. 

Now came the time when the restoration of the Parish Church 
involved the pulling down of the organ loft and other galleries, 
and as the instrument was to occupy another site it was 
necessary that it should be entirely reconstructed. The old 
work (good as it was in its infancy) was dilapidated, and would 
—like an old piece of highly flavoured cheese — on removal and 
shifting fall to bits ; it was felt that a first-class organ should be 
made, embodying Snetzler's best handicraft, and altogether 
worthy of the church. A comprehensive scheme was drawn up 
by Dr. Roberts, assisted by Mr. Walker Joy, and the order to 
build at a cost of ;£4,ooo was entrusted to Mr. Abbott, of Leeds, 
whose previous excellent work at St. Mark's, Manningham, and 
many other places, entitled him to the entire confidence of the 
Restoration Committee, as well as to the organist. With regard 
to the latter, it is only right to add here that Dr. Roberts highly 
distinguished himself as composer, organist, and choir-master 
during his 1 5 years* valuable services at Halifax Parish Church, 
and the same may be said of his duties at Magdalen College, 
Oxford, where he has been in full-dress harness since 1882. The 
present instrument is placed in the north aisle, and extends from 
floor to ceiling, the solo organ occupying a position close to the 
roof. The whole is somewhat cramped for want of more room, 
and it is hoped that a long-expressed wish of those most 
concerned with the organ that it should be divided on either 
side of the chancel, as in the case of St. Margaret's, London, 
where the talented Mr. Hoyte is organist, will, sooner or later 
be realised. 



HALIFAX PARISH CHURCH. 



177 



I. 
2. 

3. 
4. 

5- 
6. 

7- 
8. 

9. 
10. 

II. 

12. 

13. 



14. 

15. 

16. 

17- 
18. 

19. 
20. 

21. 

22. 

23. 
24. 

25. 
26. 

27. 

28. 



Great Organ. — CC to A in Alt. 

Pitch. 

Bourdon (wood) i6fl. 

Large open diapason (metal) 8ft. 

Ot)en diapason^ No. I (metal) 8ft. . 

Open diapason^ No. 2 (metal) ... ... 8ft. 

Hohl flote (wood) ... . 8ft, 

Stoppei diapason {yNQoA 2xA xci(t\.2i^ ... 4ft. 

Principal (metal) ... 4ft. 

Harmonic flute (metal) .. 4ft. 

Twelfth (metal) ... .. 2§ft. 

Fifteenth (metal) ... ... ... ... 2ft. 

Full mixture {xa^idX) ... ... III. ranks. 

Posaune ... .. ... ... ... 8ft. 

Clarion ... ... ... ... 4^^* 

13 Stops. 

Swell Organ. — CC to A in Alt. 

Bourdon and tenoroon (wood and metal) ... i6ft. 

Open diapason (metal) ... ... ... 8ft. 

Stopped aihpason (wood and metal) ... 8ft. 

Salcional (metal) 8ft. 

Violin e 'cello (metal) .. 8ft. 

Cone Gamba (metal) ... 8ft. 

Voix Angelica (metal) ... 8ft. 

Principal {ysit\.z\) ... ... 4ft. 

Gedact flute (metal) 4ft- 

Vox Humana ... ... ... ... 8ft. 

Mixture (metal V. ranks) ... ... — 

Double trumpet (metal) ... ... ... i6ft. 

Horn (metal) .. Xft. 

Oboe (metal) ... ... ... 8ft. 

Clarion (metal) ... ... ... ... 4ft. 

15 Stops. 



58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes, 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
5S pipes. 
174 pipes. 
58 pipes. 



58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
51 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
290 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
s8 pipes. 



1095 



Choir Organ.— CC to A in Alt. 

29. Lieblich bourdon (wood and metal) ... 1 6ft. 

30. Open diapason (metal) ... ... ... 8ft. 

31. Dulciana (metal) 8ft. 

32. Pierced gamba (metal) 8ft. 

33. Flauto traverso (metal) 8ft. 

34. Dolce (metal and wood) 8ft. 

35. Stopped diapason {m&X.zS. and wood) ... 8ft. 

36. Stopped flute (metal) — 

37. Flauto traverso (metal) .. 4ft. 

38. Bassoon and clarionet (metal) 8ft. 

10 Stops. 

The stops marked in italics are by Snetzler. 

Contra Fagotto i6ft. 

Suabe flute 4ft. 



58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
46 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 



568 



58 pipes. 
58 pipes. 



Solo Organ. — CC to A in Alt. 



39. Gamba, on 5 inch pressure of Wind (metal) 8ft. 58 pipes. 



40. Harmonic flute 

41. Mounted Corfiet 

42. Orchestral Oboe 

43. Tuba — on 7 inch 

7 Stops. 



> > 



>> 



>> 



1} 



4ft. 58 pipes. 
,, II. ranks. 150 pipes. 
Middle to top E. 
8ft. 46 pipes. 
6ft. 5^ pipes. 






486 



M 



178 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 



Pedal Organ.— 


CCC 


TO F. 


44. Double open diapason (wood) ... 32ft. 30 pipes. 

45. Open Diapason ... ,, ... i6ft. 3y pipes. 

46. Violone ... .. ,, ... i6f*:. 30 pipes. 

47. Bourdon ,, ... 1 6ft. tone 30 pipes. 

48. Violoncello ... ,, ... 8ft. 30 pipes. 

49. Trombone ... ,, ... i6ft. 30 pipes. 

6 Stops. ' 180 
Couplers and Accessories. 


50. Great to pedal. 

51. Swell to pedal. 

52. Choir to pedal. 

53. Solo to pedal. 






54. Swell to great. 

55. Choir to great. 

56. Solo to great. 

57. Swell to choir. 



8 Couplers. 
Composition Pedals. 

Four to act on great and pedal organ. 

Three to act pn swell organ. 

Swell to great \ 

Solo to great > To work also with the foot. 

Pedal to great-' 

Double-acting composition pedal for tuba. 

Summary. 



Great organ 




13 


928 


Swell organ 




15 


1,095 


Choir organ 




10 


568 


Solo organ 




7 


486 


Pedal organ 


• • • 


6 


180 


Couplers 




9 





60 stops 3>257 pipes 

No. 40 in solo organ — the harmonic flute — is the gift of J. W. Ward, Esq., 
Newstead. No. 18 in swell organ — the violin e'cello — is presented by A. Bancroft, 
Esq. The double trumpet in solo organ was presented by Isaac Booth, Esq. 

The tone and mechanism of this truly magnificent organ may, 
on the whole, justly be pointed to as a splendid testimony to the 
combined skill of both designer and builder. The flue work is 
rich and massive ; the solo stops delicate and sweet ; most of 
the reeds smooth and well voiced. Without being hypercritical, 
1 think the big tuba on a seven-inch pressure is somewhat rough 
and uneven, and perhaps the compound stops might have been 
more brilliant and impressive. But these are only spots on the 
sun, which may be wiped out and rectified at some future time. 
The present organist and choir-master is Mr. W. H. Garland, 
Mus. Bac, who discharges his onerous duties with fervency, 
zeal, and much ability. This was only to be expected 
from one whose career at York — first as a choir boy, then 
articled pupil of Dr. Monk, and subsequently deputy organist of 
the Minster — had given him such opportunities of acquiring 
great knowledge and experience, both in true organ playing and 
in the training of a choir. 



DONCASTER PARISH CHURCH. 1 79 

It was my privilege and pleasure to attend the service on the 
evening of 30th November. The white-robed choir numbered 
over sixty, most of them being possessed of excellent voices, 
though that of the leading boy is unfortunately " breaking," and 
he was unable to attack and sustain the high A in the well- 
known passage, " The night is departing," from Mendelssohn's 
Hymn of Praise^ which was taken as the anthem. The tenor solo, 
" The sorrows of death," expressively rendered by Mr. Verney 
Binns, and the difficult choral parts came out, assisted by the 
clever organ accompaniment, with remarkable power and effect. 
In the unaccompanied confession, versicles, psalms, and hymns, 
the congregation joined in the singing with a genuine 
appreciation of their rightful privileges, the female voices, 
especially that of a lady who was in a seat immediately behind 
me, being sweetly prominent. After the vicar, the Venerable 
Archdeacon Brooke, had preached a short impressive sermon 
from the text, " Behold, I have set before thee an open door,'* 
(Revelation iii., v. 8), the time-honoured offertory was taken — 
and well taken I believe — during the singing of the hymn, " O 
quickly come, dread Judge of all " (204, ** A. and M."), and then 
the organist played an elaborate French organ piece with 
great effect, a goodly number of the congregation remaining 
in their seats. 

I cannot conclude this notice without acknowledging the kind 
attention and information given to me by the honoured Mr. 
Joseph Sagar, who has been connected with Halifax Parish 
Church since 1842, first as a singing boy (when the ever-to-be- 
respected iVrchdeacon Musgrave was vicar), and subsequently 
as clerk and verger, in which capacity he still acts and flourishes. 



No. 5. — DONCASTER PARISH ChURCH. 

Three things are famous in Doncaster — the Parish Church, the 
Organ thereih, and the Races. Some people have added a 
fourth important attraction — Butter-scotch. My business is 
with the first two ; the rest I leave to other and more competent 
hands. The former Church, dedicated to St. George, England's 
patron saint, was totally destroyed by fire in an incredibly short 
space of time on the night of the 27th February, 1853. It was 
built in the style of architecture which prevailed about the reign 
of Edward III., but a difference in the manner of subsequent 
additions would seem to indicate that it was erected at different 



l8o ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

periods. We are told that the handsome decorated old tower, 
so beautiful from the approaches to the town, was a lofty and 
commanding object, and was considered one of the finest in the 
kingdom. It was profusely ornamented, was 150ft. high, and 
from its summit could be seen the distant towers of York 
Minster. The whole fabric, indeed, both externally and 
internally, was a triumph of architectural skill and masonic 
labour — I allude, of course, to operative, not free and accepted 
Masons. The peal of eight bells — recast by Mears, of London 
Foundry — was regarded by Lord Grimthorpe as being quite 
equal to the beautiful old peals of Bow Church and Exeter 
Cathedral. 

The organ, too, which stood over a gallery at the west end of 
the church, originally built in 1739 by Harris, a contemporary 
of the famous Father Schmidt, and subsequently enriched by 
Byfield with superb reed stops, was considered to be one of the 
best in the kingdom. Consisting at first of three manuals and 
twenty stops, it was, on the advice and generous assistance of 
Mr. J. Rogers, aided by the opinions of Dr. Camidge and Mr. 
Ward (of York), enlarged by different organ builders, including 
Messrs. Hill and Son, of London, who carried the pedal organ 
down from GGG to CCCC (32ft. tone), and the whole instrument 
was just about to receive its crowning touch in 1853 when the 
dreadful fire completed the destruction of church, bells, organ, 
and all that was beautiful to look at, and all that was lovely 
to listen to. 

*' A shapeless mass of holy things ; 

A shapeless ruin, sad to see ; — 
A sight which desolation brings 

In all its dread deformity. 
But more— the word of life is hushed ; 

And mute the hymn and anthem chime ; 

And mute the organ peal sublime ; 
All — all, in cold destruction crushed." 

Notwithstanding the loss of so much that was dear to them, 
the Doncastrians bestirred themselves at once, with unremitting 
energy and zeal, to build a new and splendid church on the lines 
of the old fabric, and if possible superior to it. " Nothing less 
than a complete restoration of that magnificent fabric " (the 
Church of St. George), exclaimed the earnest and Venerable 
Archdeacon Creke at the meeting on March 7th, 1853; "a 
motto which ought to be indelibly written," records the 
historian of the day, " on every heart in the populous Deanery 
of Doncaster. The Mother Church deserves this at our hands. 
It can and must be accomplished for the honour of our town 



DONCASTER PARISH CHURCH. 



1 82 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

and the glory of the Almighty." From north and south, east 
and west, flowed in munificent donations for the new church. 
Her Most Gracious Majesty the Queen gave ;£ic)0, the Arch- 
bishop of York ;£500, and the Town Council of Doncaster 
;6^5,ooo. Bazaars, lectures, sermons, meetings, collecting-cards^ 
etc., were all put in motion, and a grand sum total was soon 
available for a starting point. Poets invoked the muse, and the 
famous James Montgomery finished a thirteen verse poem with 
these lines : — 

** Amidst the glories of our land, 
(Thy sister churches) thou again, 
Holy and beautiful, shall stand, 
A joy of angels and of men." 

George Gilbert Scott — afterwards Sir Gilbert Scott — was the 
genius of architecture who was entrusted with the construction 
of the future church to be built on the site of the venerable 
edifice itself And a fine and beautiful fane it is ! Like 
the old church, it commands admiration from every point of 
view — outside and inside. Bold proportions, height, breadth, 
beauty, and space are all there, and I believe I am right in 
asserting that it is the finest parish church erected in Great 
Britain since the Reformation, just as St. Paul's is the grandest 
Cathedral built (out of the coal dues and tax) since that 
memorable time. During the building of the new church the 
services were held in St. George's Chapel, where an organ was 
put up by Mr. Charles Brindley, of Sheffield, consisting of three 
manuals and rather over twenty stops. It was a successful 
instrument, its bright, ringing tones telling well — and still more 
so when it was removed to the North Chapel during the 
building of Schulze's grand organ for the resuscitated church. 

It was a matter of great anxiety to Mr. Jeremiah Rogers, the 
organist, as well as to the wcommittee, to fix on a builder who 
should be able in the important matter of tone, especially 
Church tone, suited to the ecclesiastical character of our 
Anglican services, to eclipse any known English cathedral 
organ, and especially to vie with the instrument which had just 
been erected in the Town Hall at Leeds, celebrated for its 
** unparalleled reeds," etc. ; and all this seemed likely to be 
accomplished by the engagement of Herr Schulze and Sons, of 
Paulinzella, near Weimar, who had obtained a high reputation 
in Germany, Russia, and America, as well as by their fine 
instrument erected in the Cathedral at Lubec. Moreover, the 
Schulzes had become well known to professional and amateur 
experts for an exquisite small organ placed in a gallery in the 



DONCASTER PARISH CHURCH. 1 83 

Great Exhibition of 1851, where I was taken to hear and play 
it by Mr. McKorkell, the well-known organist of Northampton, 
who subsequently secured it for the Exchange Room in that 
town, where I believe it is still, though much injured from 
exposure to wet and damp. Schulze^s original estimate for the 
Doncaster Church organ was ;^2,ioo, " exclusive of import duty, 
and the external case." I may here observe that there never 
has been a " case," the present appearance of the organ being as 
shown in the illustration. 

Fortunately for the authorities at Doncaster, they were not 
hampered (as they might yet be) with the meddling and 
muddling of some pushing, persistent amateur, whose chief 
qualifications consist in possessing that most dangerous thing — 
*" a little knowledge." On this point I venture to think that 
the following suggestions made some years ago by an artist 
organ builder may be read with interest and advantage by those 
concerned in these matters : — 

1. The organ builder should be regarded as an artist in the 
service of the Church, and who, after proper examination, shall 
be found able to prosecute the art ; to which must be added 
such a high sense for the conscientious fulfilment of his duty as 
every servant of the Church ought to possess. 

2. Church vestries should not, for themselves, accept any 
proposals for organ work without obtaining the best advice they 
can procure, and employing only such builders as are properly 
qualified to execute the work. The making out of specifications 
should be done by a competent professional person, and the 
execution of the work should be strictly watched over by the 
officials appointed. Above all, the reputation for ability and 
integrity of the organ builder employed should be firmly 
established. By some such precautions an effectual check 
would be given to the existence of the pretentious amateur and 
bungler, while congregations and vestries would be protected, 
and the art properly encouraged. 

Edmund Schulze — t/ie artist of the firm — always wisely sought 
for plenty of free space around and over his organs. Thus, in 
approving of the North Chapel, in Doncaster Parish Church, he 
showed his wisdom and experience by getting " plenty of room 
for his pipes to speak," as Snetzler observed. Schulze was 
allowed nearly three years in which to have the. instrument 
completed and erected ; eighteen months for preparatory 
foundation work — sound boards, bellows, action, pipes, etc. — at 
his factory in Paulinzella j and about the same time for voicing 
and adapting the tone to the building in which this glorious 



184 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

organ was to be placed. For this latter work (he was justly 
celebrated in this department) the builder took up his residence 
in Doncaster, with a staflf of four or five of his skilled workmen, 
and laboured industriously in a schoolroom near the church 
with a quiet and earnest enthusiasm unknown to the majority of 
our English organ builders, whose chief motto at that time 
seems to have been " lots of money and little art." 

For an excellent description of Schulze's work I may here 
quote from a brochure written in 1 862 by the late well-known 
writer on organs, Mr. William Shepherdson, then residing in 
Sheffield : — 

For the last century and a quarter, or up to within a very 
few years ago, English organ builders had not made that 
advance in their art which they might have done. They were 
content to copy as near as they could the instruments of Harris, 
Schmidt, and Snetzler, scattered here and there in this country. 
When we say copied we speak in a mechanical view of the 
matter, for on the theory of the subject English builders 
bestowed little attention ; hence the sameness which prevailed 
in most of their organs, and the almost total absence of that 
gradation of tone and peculiar characteristics of the stops in 
organs of Continental construction. One great secret in the 
success of German builders is to be found in the absence of all 
exclusiveness. A theoretical knowledge of the profession is 
mastered by all, and any individual builder who designs a 
practical improvement does not fail to communicate his ideas 
to other builders. All are eager for improvements, and by a 
community of ideas, perfection is attained. This is far from 
being the case in England, and therefore the musical public gain 
an advantage when German work is brought among them, for 
English builders have thereby good examples to follow. In 
the organ at Doncaster, Herr Schulze has produced a work 
which we feel convinced will exercise an important influence on 
organ building in this country ; for its advantages are self- 
evident, and there is a disposition among our builders to avail 
themselves of the lessons they may learn from it. During the 
progress of the work, numbers of English builders have sought 
for and obtained opportunities of inspecting it, and it will 
continue to be the object of a visit to all who are interested in 
organ building. The large English organs at Liverpool, Leeds, 
Manchester, Birmingham, York, Newcastle, and elsewhere, are 
wonderful illustrations of mechanical ingenuity, but in the 
organ at Doncaster, which exceeds most of those named in size, 
there are all the mechanical effects, with a system of mechanism 



DONCASTER PARISH CHURCH. 



185 



much less complicated, and a total immunity from accidents by 
disarrangement. Advantages of this nature are unmistakably 
prominent in M. Schulze's work, but it is in the superiority of 
the scaling and voicing of the instrument where so much will be 
found worthy of study. To enable the reader to judge of the 
magnitude of the instrument it will be necessary to examine the 
following list of stops : — 









Great 


Organ. 




I. 


Sub Bourdon (ten 


. 


. 32 ft. 


12. Twelfth 


2§ft 


2. 


Double open diapason 


.. 16 ft 


13. Fifteenth 


2 ft. 


3. 


Bourdon ... 




.. 16 ft. 


14. Mixture— 5 ranks 




4- 


Open diapason 




8 ft. 


15. Cymbal — 3 to 5 ranks ... 


— 


5- 


Octave 




8 ft. 


16. Cornet (ten C) — 4 ranks ... 




6. 


Hohlfloete .. 




8 ft. 


17. Double trumpet 


16 ft. 


7. 


Stop diapason 




8 ft. 


18. Trumpet 


8fr. 


8. 


Great quint 


• • • • 


.. Si^t. 


19. Po.saune 


8 ft. 


9. 


Principal ... 




4 ft. 


20. Horn 


8 ft. 


10. 


Gemshorn ... 




4 ft. 


21. Clarion ... 


4 ft. 


II. 


Stop flute ... 




4 ft. 
Choir 


Organ. 




I. 


Lieblich gedact 




16 ft. 


9. Flauto traverso 


4 ft. 


2. 


Geigen principal . 




8 ft. 


10. Quintatoen 


4 ft 


3- 


Viol de gamba 




8 ft. 


II. Flautino 


2 ft. 


4- 


Flauto traverso 




8 ft. 


12. Viol de gamba and flauto 




5. 


Salcional ... 




8 ft. 


traverso as one stop — 




6. 


Lieblich gedact 




8 ft. 


3 ranks 


— 


7. 


Geigen principal 




4 ft. 


13. Clarionet 


8 ft. 


8. 


Lieblich flute 




4 ft. 
Swell 


Organ. 




I. 


Bourdon ... 




.. 16 ft. 


10. Viol d'amour 


4 ft. 


2. 


Open diapason 




8 ft. 


II. Mixture — 5 ranks 


— 


3. 


Gemshorn .. 




8 ft. 


12. Scharf — 3 ranks 


— 


4. 


Terpodion ... 




8 ft. 


13. Cornet (ten C) — 4 ranks... 


— 


5- 


Harmonic flute 




8 ft. 


14. Double bassoon 


16 ft. 


6. 


Rohr flute ... 




8 It. 


15. Hautboy ... 


8 ft. 


I: 


Principal . . 




4 ft. 


16. Trumpet 


8 ft. 


Harmonic flute 




4 ft. 


17* Horn 


8 ft. 


9- 


Stopt flute ... 




4 ft. 
Solo ( 


18. Clarion 
)rgan. 


4 ft. 




M 


lost of \ 


vhich is ta 


ken from the swell. 




I. 


Gemshorn ... 


• • 


8 ft. 


6. Double bassoon 


16 ft. 


2. 


Harmonic flute 


• • 


8 ft. 


7. Hautboy 


8 ft. 


3- 


Rohr floete 


■ « • 


8 ft. 


8. Horn 


8 ft. 


4- 


Harmonic flute 




.. 4 ft. 


9. Vox Humana 


8 ft. 


5. 


Stopt flute ... 


• • • 


.. 4 ft. 
Echo ( 


3rgan. 




I. 


Tibia major 


• • • 


16 ft. 


5. Flauto amabile 


8 ft. 


2. 


Vox angelica 


• ■ • 


8 ft. 


6. Celestina 


4 ft. 


3- 


Harmonica 


> • • • 


8 ft. 


7. Flauto dolci.ssimo ... 


4 ft. 


4. 


Flauto traverso . 


■ « • • 


8 ft. 


8. Harmonica aetheria — 2 ranks 





i86 



ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 



Pedal Organ. — CCCC to E. — 29 Notes. 



I. Sub principal 


• • • 




32 ft. 


14. 15 th bass 


• 


• • • 


4 ft. 


2. Major bass 


• • • 




16 ft. 


15. Tierce 






3ift 


3. Principal bass 


• • • 




16 ft. 


16. Mixture — 2 ranks... 








4. Sub bass ... 


• • • 




16 ft. 


1 7. Cymbal — 2 ranks . . . 








5. Open diapason 


bass 




16 ft. 


18. Contra posaune ... 






3«ft. 


6. Violon 


• ■ • 




16 ft. 


19. Posaune 






16 ft. 


7. Minor bass... 


■ • • 




8 ft. 


20. Bombard 






16 ft. 


8. Octave bass 


• • • 




8 ft. 


21. Contra fagotto 






16 ft. 


9. Violoncello 


• • • 




8 ft. 


22. Trumpet ... 






8 ft. 


10. Flute bass ... 


• • • 




8ft. 


23. Horn 






8 ft. 


II. Great quint 


• • • 




io§ft. 


24. Fagotto 






8 ft. 


12. Quint bass... 


• • • 




Sift. 


25. Clarion 




4 ft. 


13. Great tierce 


• • • 




6Jft. 














Couplers, etc. 






I. Great to pedals 


> 


1 




8. Combination for the pedals 




2. Swell to great 


( 


By 




9. Combination for swell 


• • • 




3. Choir to great 




pedal 




10. Do. do. 


• • • 




4. Tremulant for s 


well , 






II. Do. for the choir 




5. Thunder stop 


• « • 


• • • 










(6. Combination stops for the 










(7. Great organ 


• • • 















There can be no doubt that the secrets of Schulze's success 
are chiefly due to— i. A plentiful supply of wind from many 
pairs of strongly made diagonal bellows, supplying different 
pressures according to the size and requirements of the organ. 
2. Large sound boards of exceptional capacity and strength — 
in this organ there are no fewer than 1 8,. seven for the pedal 
organ alone. 3. The over six thousand pipes in the Doncaster 
organ are made from well-seasoned wood, and the finest quality 
of metal, excepting for the large tubes of the reeds on the pedal 
organ, in which zinc is successfully employed. 4. His genius 
for scaling and voicing. Some idea of the size of this organ 
may be obtained from the fact that it occupies nearly the 
whole of the north chapel of the spacious church, and is 3 1 feet 
wide by 26 feet deep. It is nearly 40 feet high. The swell-box, 
situated in the most elevated part, is larger than many ordinary 
large organs, and encloses a space of 18 feet wide, 12 feet deep, 
and 1 1 feet 6 inches high. 

In the way of repairs nothing has been done since Schulze 
left it ; and, excepting the reeds, but little tuning has been 
required. The wear and tear of over twenty years, the dust, and 
varied temperature in the church have undoubtedly contributed 
towards creating the necessity now for a complete overhauling, 
cleaning (especially the reeds and mixtures of the great organ) ; 
the substitution of powerful gas or water supply for blowing, in 
place of the old treadmill plan requiring six or more strong men 
to keep in the wind for the full organ, and other desirable work. 



DONCASTER PARISH CHURCH. 1 87 

This, however, should not be undertaken by any but an 
experienced, accomplished artist, who has spent his life in 
making himself thoroughly acquainted with the value, import- 
ance, and sacredness of such magnificent tone-power and beauty 
of work contained in this unsurpassed instrument in St. George's 
Church, Doncaster, of which not only the vicar, wardens, and 
inhabitants generally, but the whole county of York are so 
justly proud. No amateur, however highly recommended by 
influential friends or by himself, should have the chance of 
doing — what has been done elsewhere — mischief to valuable 
instruments, made and finished by builders of genius, artistic 
skill, and the highest reputation. 

Assisted by the kind attention of the organist, Mr. Robert 
Rogers, I recently spent two or three hours in hearing, playing, 
and examining this grand Doncaster organ. On some previous 
occasions, shortly after it was finished, I heard its music from 
the hands, feet, and minds of Smart, Hopkins, Rea, and 
Jeremiah Rogers ; but, though many parts are not now in good 
order (as I have already intimated), I. had not before enjoyed 
so much, or appreciated so highly, its sublime foundation tone- 
power as I did on this occasion. The flue-work of the great 
and choir organs, as far as the 4-feet tone, is truly superb, and 
I have never heard — not even from the finest of Silbermann's 
famous instruments in Germany — a finer variety, beauty, and 
rich, distinctive character tone — pure, unattenuated, unadulter- 
ated tone. The player, especially if he can extemporise fairly 
well, sits with a flood of sound ready to the touch of his fingers, 
and a store of thunder lying harmless at his feet. The 
thickness, depth, and independence of the pedal, organ here 
vindicate supremely the ascendancy of this important section ; 
where, especially in slow subjects, when the bass rolls in its 
ponderousness — there is no disputing it — it is like the^ai of the 
Omnipotent. The swell, solo, and echo organs have also their 
gems, especially the harmonic flutes, and many other delicately 
voiced stops. I am bound, however, to admit that the reeds and 
mixtures, particularly of the great organ, are not, so far as my 
own individual opinion goes, equal to the other parts of the 
instrument. But Schulze did not affect reeds much ; indeed, to 
have matched and continued the power and brilliancy of the 
flue work would probably have resulted in comparative failure 
and objectionable resonance. Silbermann's masterpiece, erected 
in the Royal Catholic Church, Dresden, 1754, contains out of 
thirty stops on three manuals only two reeds — a ** Trompete " 
of 8ft, and a " Fagott " of i6ft., both in the great organ. When 



1 88 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

I played on this and other instruments of his in 1871, I confess 
I did not seem to care for or desire any reeds. So with Schulze 
at Doncaster. He wanted to build a grand church organ on the 
old German lines of tone and mechanism, and we all know how 
splendidly he succeeded, and how delightfully satisfied Mr. 
Rogers was with the result. 

The several organists of the church were thus appointed : — 
1739, Mr. William Tireman, of York, with a salary of ;£20, paid 
by the Corporation ; 1741, Mr. John Maddock, with a like 
salary, to which, in 1744, £\o was added ; 175S, Mr. John 
Camidgc, York, £y:> ; 1756, Mr. Edward Miller, Mus. Doc, with 
£10 a year ; October, 1807, Mr. Isaac Brailsford, of His 
Majesty's Chapel Royal, St. James', with fifty guineas a year ; 
23rd of April, 1835, St. George's Day, Mr. Jeremiah Rogers ; he 
won the appointment in a public competition of skill against a 
number of talented organists. Dr. Camidge being the umpire. 
The salary was sixty guineas a year, with a pew in the church, 
the latter accommodation being, of course, lost by the fire. 

The present organist is Mr. R. M. Rogers, the son of Mr. 
Jeremiah Rogers, who was appointed in 1879, at a salary of ;£so 
a year. Out of these there can be no question that " Jerry 
Rogers" — as he was familiarly and invariably called — stands 
first and foremost, not only on account of his great abilities as 
an organist, but more, perhaps, for the knowledge he obtained 
of organs and organ tone — the enthusiasm and liberality he 
displayed in his connection with Schulze's gigantic instrument 
in the Parish Church, and his generous hospitality to the many 
distinguished artists — especially organists — who visited Don- 
caster to see the grand Fane, hear the inimitable organ, and 
listen to the sweet bells cast by Warner. Living in a large, 
roomy house in the High Street, once occupied by a " nob," 
surrounded in the chief apartments by valuable paintings, grand 
pianofortes, and much artistic old furniture, " Jerry Rogers," 
especially when entertaining his brother professors of the " divine 
art," was indeed a genial, conversational, witty host — a real 
Amphitryon of the right sort. It is no wonder, therefore, that 
in the after days of his son, upon whose shoulders his mantle 
had fallen, an old, celebrated, and chatty composer went to pay 
his young friend a six days' visit, and actually remained in the 
house six months. However, before taking his last farewell he 
left with hisfidus Achates a handsome coin to give to the next 
church collection. Perhaps ! 

Mr. R. M. Rogers played and conducted the services of the 
church two years before his father died in 1879. As soon as 



SHEFFIELD — THE PARISH CHURCH. 1 89 

that sad event had taken place a requisition was got up, signed by 
the Mayor and all the principal inhabitants, asking the vicar and 
wardens for his election as organist proper. This was shortly 
afterwards answered by his unanimous appointment as organist, 
etc., of Doncaster Parish Church. Mr. J. Rogers had another son 
(born in 1850), who is now a flourishing architect in Bristol, but 
no daughter. It may be here mentioned that Mr. R. M. Rogers 
received great educational advantages and training in music — 
first from his father for four or five years ; then at Leipsic, where 
he was instructed by those famous professors, Richter, Reinecke, 
Plaidy, etc , for four years ; and afterwards he went to Leeds 
for two years, where he studied the organ and the choral services 
at the Leeds Parish Church. 1 had not the opportunity of 
hearing the choir sing at Doncaster, but I was assured on good, 
independent authority, that the musical part of the services — 
fully choral — is devotionally and excellently rendered by a 
white-robed choir of about forty voices, led by the able Mr. 
John Kirk, the whole being under the direction and supervision 
of the organist, whose general undemonstrative organ accom- 
paniments to the Psalms, hymns, anthems, etc., add greatly to 
the tout ensemble. 



No. 6. — Sheffield — The Parish Church and Albert 

Hall Organs. 

Sheffield, like Leeds, rejoices in the possession of two very 
fine organs ; and, like Leeds, one is placed in the Parish 
Church, the other in its principal hall, or concert-room. Unlike 
Leeds, however, the grand instrument in the Sheffield Music 
Hall was built by Cavaille-Coll and Co., of Paris ; whilst 
our own magnificent organ in the Leeds Town Hall was 
made and erected by an English firm, Messrs. Gray and 
Davison, of London, from the plans and specifications of 
two English organists. The Sheffield Parish Church organ 
formerly contained much good old work of Snetzler's, erected in 
1755. From time to time, however, the usual meddlers and 
muddlers got hold of it, and, as in many other instances, hewed 
and hacked at the valuable old machine, adding what was 
ycleped " improvements " (!), but taking good care to leave but 
few of its original beauties behind. The instrument has been 
entirely rebuilt by those able artists Brindley and Foster, of 
Sheffield. The Leeds Parish Church organ was also originally 



190 



ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 



a Snetzler, but every trace thereof was carefully eliminated 
before it reached the artistically endowed hands of Greenwood, 
Holt, Hill, Schulze, and Abbott. 

The following is the complete specification of the organ 
in the Parish Church of Sheffield : — 



Great Organ— CC to C. 



I. 

2. 

3- 

5. 
6. 

7. 



Double Open Diapason m. 16 ft. 

Open Diapason (large) m. 8 ft. 

Open Diapason (small) m. 8 ft. 

Hohl Flote . . . w. and ra. 8 ft. 

Principal m. 4 ft. 

Harmonic Flute w. and m. 4 ft. 
Grave Mixture 2 ranks m. 

1 2th and 15th 



8. Great Cornet 5 ranks m. 

various. 

9. Sharp Mixture 3 ranks m. ,, 

10. Contra Posaune ... m. 16 ft. 

1 1 . Tromba . . ... . . . m . 8 ft. 

12. Clarion ... m. 4 ft. 



Swell Organ — CC to C. 



13. Bourdon 

14. Open Diapason 

15. Gedact ... 

16. Echo Dulciana 

17. Unda Maris 

18. Principal 

19. Mixture... 



w. and m. 16 ft. 

... m. 8 ft. 

w. and m. 8 ft. 

... m. 8 ft. 

... ... m. o it. 

... m. 4 ^^> 
...2 ranks m. 

12th and 15th 



20. Sesquialtra 3 ranks m. 



21. Contra Fagotto 

22. Horn 

23. Oboe 

24. Clarion ... 

25. Vox Humana . 



vanous. 
m. 16 ft. 
8 ft. 



m. 
m. 
m. 
m. 



8 ft. 

4 ft. 
8 ft. 



Choir Organ— CC to C. 



26. Lieblich Bourdon w. and m. 16 ft. 

27. Salicional ... . . . m. 8 ft. 

28. Dulciana ... ... m. 8 ft. 

29. Lieblich Gedact w. and m. 8 ft. 



30. Flauto Traverso 

31. Dulcet Twelfth 

32. Piccolo ... 

33. Clarionet 



Pedal Organ — CCC to F. 



34. Major Bass 

35. Sub-Bass 

36. Violone 

37. Quint .. 



w. 16 ft. 
w. 16 ft. 
m. 16 ft. 
m.io| ft. 



38. Flute ... 

39. Octave .. 

40. Bombarde 

41. Trompette 



m. 4 ft. 

m. 2§ ft. 

m. 2 ft. 

m. 8 ft. 



w. 8 ft. 

w. 8 ft. 

m. 16 ft. 

m. 8 ft. 



Couplers. 



42. Swell to Great. 

43. Swell to Pedal. 

44. Great to Pedal. 

45. Choir to Pedal. 

46. Swell to Choir. 



47. Great Super Octave. 

48. Swell Super Octave. 

49. Swell Sub-Octave. 

50. Choir Sub-Octave. 

51. Tremulant. 



»» 



4 Composition Pistons and 4 Composition Pedals to Gt. and Pedal Organs. 
4 i» »• 4 »» « to Swell 

Reversing Pedal controlling No. 44. 

Pedal to cut off Great Flute Pipes. 
„ Great Reed Pipes. 



)) 



I have recently made a careful examination of this fine organ, 
played, and heard it played by the present talented organist, 
Mr. Edwin H. Lemare. It does not stand in the best possible 
position, and has had to be somewhat cramped or crowded for 



SHEFFIELD — THE PARISH CHURCH. 



Sheffield Parish Chun 



192 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE^ NORTH. 

want of more space. It is nevertheless possessed of much grand 
tone and varied effects ; and yet there are points the honest 
critic might object to, such as a wind pressure of 7J inches for 
the reeds on the great and swell organs, causing them to become 
too metallic and clanging, and consequently more of the 
" orchestrion " stamp than an ecclesiastical — bright, but smooth, 
rich, and even-tone. The i6ft. open diapason on the great, 
associated with the violon on the pedals, is placed chiefly in 
front as ornamental pipes. The upper part of this useful stop is 
very good, but the lower octave is somewhat defective and 
windy — a matter the eminent builders can soon rectify. The 
bellows-blowing is accomplished by manual labour (as at 
Doncaster), four men with a wheel and a crank struggling hard 
to keep the supply required. Especially trying, if not cruel, is 
this process when the organist has, as the Americans say, 
" pulled out all the stoppers, and let fly, full bang." In a great 
and wealthy town like Sheffield, where so much is known of 
mechanical ingenuity and contrivances for trade purposes, surely 
this want for the Sheffield Parish Church organ could soon be 
remedied by the substitution of a gas or water engine. 

In the swell there is a sweetly- voiced unda maris ^ which, 
either alone or in combination with other stops, is remarkably 
effective. The flue-work generally, especially the eight-feet 
registers, are voiced with great skill, and possess a broad, 
expansive, church tone, not often surpassed by the modern 
handicraftsman. Messrs. Brindley and Foster have such a high 
reputation for their admirable mechanism, general inside work, 
as well as the strength and expanse of their bellows and sound- 
boards, that little need be said on this point, nor on their 
tubular pneumatic action, which they have now brought nearly 
to perfection, much to the comfort of the player and the effect of 
his playing. These are especially to be found in their splendid 
organ built in the magnificent new church of St. John's, 
Ranmoor, erected at the sole cost of Mr. Mappin, sen., at 
Broomhill, one of the most lovely suburbs of the picturesque 
neighbourhood of Sheffield. It is indeed an organ for an artist 
to perform on, and, if he has time, to encore himself ad libitum. 
Added to this, the fane is accoustically good, and the waves of 
sound — the different stops — the artist's utterances, all come to 
the ears of the hearer with distinct articulation, and realistic, 
grateful charm. 

The organist of Sheffield Parish Church is Mr. Edwin Lemare, 
a young man under 30, who has already by his talent and 
industry raised himself to a high position as an executant and 



SHEFFIELD — THE ALBERT HALL 1 93 

solo organist. He was born in Ventnor, I.O.W., in 1865, and 
is the son of worthy parents (whom I have the pleasure of 
knowing), who spared no trouble or expense to have the 
natural talents of their son developed and encouraged by the 
best masters at the Royal Academy of Music, where he was the 
Goss Scholar for three years, studying respectively under Sir 
George Macfarren, Doctor Steggall, Walter Macfarren, etc. He 
held several appointments in London, and was subsequently 
organist of St. Andrew's Church, and the Park Hall, Cardiff, 
from which place he migrated to Sheffield, where he has held 
his present post for nearly five years.* Unfortunately I had not 
the pleasure and the privilege to attend any choral service, but 
I hear that there is an excellent choir of nearly fifty voices at 
the Parish Church, and that the musical functions are, with 
the concurrent sanction of the esteemed Vicar, Archdeacon 
Blakeney, well and carefully performed ; indeed music is there, 
as in nearly all churches at the present time, a sine qua non^ 
proving a source of sacred delight to thousands of worshippers. 
May I not add here that all church buildings without music are 
mere shells without fruit — ships without crew and cargo— and 
simply provocative of the condemnation and destruction of the 
Church itself? 



The Albert vHall Organ, Sheffield. 

Here we have one of the finest concert organs in England, 
and of which the Sheffield people — those who understand these 
things — are justly proud. And yet but little good use is made 
of this great instrument ; indeed, it is not systematically kept 
in order, the ** company " to whom the hall and organ belongs 
charging almost a prohibitive price for their use — ^^23 for one 
night ! The tariff for the grand organ and capacious Victoria 
Hall in Leeds does not reach one-half this sum for speculative 
purposes, and considerably less for charitable objects. The 
following official description of the Sheffield Albert Hall gives 
a correct idea of its magnitude and utility : — 

The first floor is occupied by the large hall, with its corridors 
and staircases, and a private room, with lavatory, etc. The 
floor space of the hall is here 103ft. 6in. by 6oft., but at the first 
gallery level above the dimensions are increased to 125ft. by 
60ft., the hall occupying the entire length of the site. At about 
I oft. above the floor a balcony, two seats in depth, of ample 

* He has since removed to London. 

N 



194 



ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 



width, runs round three sides of the hall, and behind this, at the 
Barker-pool end, having a separate entrance, is a large gallery, 
the organ and orchestra occupying the other end, and another 
private room is in immediate communication with them. Above 
the first gallery is another gallery of large dimensions, and 
opposite to this on each side of the organ are two roomy private 
boxes. The height of the hall internally is Soft. The acoustic 
properties of the room have been the subject of anxious con- 
sideration and consultation with the best authorities, and the 
result has been the adoption of the somewhat peculiar but not 
inelegant form of ceiling, which is flat, with the angles of 
junction with the walls sloped off, and without any large breaks 
or projections, and is of lath and plaster. 

And now we may proceed to give a description of the grand 
organ, built by the celebrated Cavaille-Coll, of Paris, at the 
suggestion of John Hopwood, Esq., Bracewell, Skipton, who had 
had a superb instrument erected in his sumptuous music room 
at a cost of ;£3,ooo, and upon which I had the honour and 
pleasure to give a series of inaugural recitals in 1870. The cost 
of the Sheffield organ was ;£"5,ooo. Here is the Synopsis : — 



Clavier du Grand Orgue (Grand Organ) CC to C Altissimo, 61 Notes. 



Jeux de Fond. 



I. 

2. 

3- 
4 



Montre 
Gambe 
Bourdon 
Montre 

5. Salicional 

6. Viole de Gambe 

7. Flute Harmonique 

8. Bourdon 

9. Prestant 



16 ft. 
16 ft. 
16 ft. 

8 ft. 

8 ft. 

8 ft. 

8 ft. 

8 ft. 

4 ft. 



Jeux de Combinaison. 

10. Octave Flute 4 ft. 

11. Quinte ... ... ... 2§ ft. 

12. Foumiture ... ... 5 ranks. 

13. Cymbale ... ... ... 4 ft. 

14. Bombarde ... ... .. 16 ft» 

15. Trompette ... .. .. 8 ft. 

16. Clarion ... 4 ft. 



Clavier du Positif Expressif (Choir Organ) CC to C Altis., 61 Notes. 

Jeux dc Fond. Jeux de Combinaison. 

1. Quintaton 16 ft. 7. Quinte 2§ ft. 

2. Principal ... 8 ft. 8. Doublette ... ... ... 2 ft. 

3. Nacht Horn 8 ft. 9. Piccolo i ft. 

4. Unda Maris 8 ft. 10. Clarinette 8 ft. 

5. Prestant ... ... ... 4 ft. ii. Basson and Ilautbois ... 8 ft. 

6. Flute-douce .. 4 ft. 12. Voix Humaine ... .. 8 ft. 



Clavier du Recit^Expressif (Swell Organ) CC to C in Altis., 61 Notes. 



Jeux de Fond. 

1. Bourdon-doux 

2. Flute Traversi^re 

3. Diapason 

4. Gambe 

5. Flute Octaviante 

6. Voix- Celeste ... 



16 ft. 

8 ft. 
8 ft. 
8 ft. 
4 ft. 
8 ft. 



Jeux de Combinaison. 

7. Viole d 'amour ... . 4 ft. 

8. Doublette ... ... ... 2 It. 

9. Comet 5 ranks. 

ID. Cor. Anglais 16 fL 

11. Trompette ... 8 ft^ 

12. Clarion 4 ft 



SHEFFIELD — THE ALBERT HALL. 



The Albert Hall Oisan, S] 



196 



ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 



Clavier du Solo (Solo Organ ; Swell) CC to C in Altis. , 61 Notes. 



Jeux de Fond 


• 


Jeux de Combinaison. 


I. Bourdon 


... 16 ft. 


10. Tuba Magna ... 16 ft. 


2. Diapason 


... 8 ft. 


II. Trompette ... 8 ft. 


3. Flute Octaviante 


... 4 ft- 


12. Clarion ... 4 ft. 


4. Flute Harmonique ... 


... 8 ft. 




5. Quinte 


.. 2§ft. 




6. Doublette 


... 2 ft. 




7. Tierce 


I 3-5 ft. 


4 


8. Cor d'harmonie 


... 8 ft. 




9. Basson and Hautbois 


... 8 ft. 




Clavier de Pedale (Pedal Organ) CCC to F. 30 Notes. 


Jeux de Fond 


» 


Jeux de Combinaison. 


I . Principal Basse 


... 32 ft. 


9. Contre Bombarde ... ... 32 ft. 


2. Violin Basse ... 


... 16 ft. 


10. Bombarde ... ... ... 16 ft. 


3. Contra Basse 


... 16 ft. 


II. Trompette 8ft. 


4. Soubasse 


... 16 ft. 


12. Clarion 4 ft. 


5. Grande Quinte 


...IO§ft. 




6. Violoncelle 


... 8 ft. 




7. Basse ... 


... 8 ft. 




8. Corni Dolci ... 


... 4 ft. 






Pedales de 


Combinaison. 


I. Effetd'Orage. 




13. Octaves Graves. 


2. Tirasse Grande Org^e 


• 


14. Copula Grande Orgue. 


3. Do, Positif. 




15. Do. Positif. 


4. Do. R^cit. 




16. Do. R6cit. 


5. Do. Solo. 




17. Do. Solo. 


6. Anches Pedales. 




18. Do. du R6cit au Positif. 


7. Do. Grande Orgue 


» 


19. Tremolo du Positif. 


8. Do. Positif. 




20. Do. du R6cit. 


9. Do. Recit. 




21. Expression Solo. 


10. Do. Solo. 




22. Expression collective du Positif 


II. Expression Positif. 




R^cit. et Solo. 


12. Expression R^ciL 







Resume de Nombre de Jeux et de Tuyaux dans Leur Intonation. 



Designation 


Jeux de 


Plein jeu 
et Cornet. 


• 

»— > 

Q 


0) 


des 
Claviers. 


32ft. 


16 

4 
I 

2 

2 

4 
'3 


io§ 


8 


4 


2S 


2 

• • • 

I 
I 
I 

3 


«3-5 

• • 
« • • 

• • • 

I 

• * • 


I 

• •• 

I 

• • • 


it 


Grand Orgue 

Positif Expressif 
Recit Expressif 
Solo Expressif 
Pedales 


• • • 

• • • 
« • • 

• •• 

2 


• • • 

• • • 

• • • 
■ • • 

I 

I 


i 

6 

5 
5 

3 

25 


3 
2 

3 

2 

2 
12 


I 
I 

• • • 

I 

3 


2-9 

• • • 

1-4 

• • • 

■ • • 

3-13 


16 

12 
12 
12 
12 

64 


1403 
720 

849 
732 
360 


Totaux ... 


2 


I 


I 


4064 



The case, as will be seen by the illustration, is in the 
Renaissance style, was designed by M. Simil, and has medallions 
of Bach and Handel placed on each of the consoles, which, 



SHEFFIELD THE ALBERT HALL 1 97 

after the French fashion, arc placed with the performer*s face to 
the audience. The inaugural recital was given on Monday, 
December i6th, 1873, by Mr. W. T. Best, organist of St 
George's Hall, Liverpool, which took place in the afternoon, 
and was largely attended. The Earl Manvers and party were 
among those present, as also were many of the elite of Sheffield 
and the neighbourhood. Before the commencement of the 
recital the Mayor (Alderman Hallam) entered the orchestra, 
invested with his chain of office, accompanied by the ex-Mayor 
(Alderman Fairburn) and several other gentlemen. 

For a complete account of this interesting recital I am 
indebted to Sir William Leng and his son, Mr. C. D. Leng, by 
whose kindness and courtesy the case illustration and the 
concert notice have been specially extracted from their paper, 
the Sheffield Daily Telegraph, of December 17th, 1873. 

" Mr. Best's programme embraced every variety of music 
calculated to display to the fullest extent the capabilities of the 
organ. The result was but to confirm our previously expressed 
opinion that Sheffield now possesses one of the finest and most 
complete organs in the country. This opinion was amply borne 
out by the many encomiums we heard passed on the instrument 
by competent critics who were present during the recital. The 
programme opened with Fantasia in G major. Bach, in which 
the diapasons of the organ were heard to great advantage on 
the masterly allacapella which forms the basis of the work. 
Towards the end an unexpected chord played upon the reed 
registers prepared the way for one of this composer's most 
brilliant cadenzas. No. 2 a Larghetto, by Mozart, in D major 
Op. 108. This is a movement of much grace from one of 
Mozart's quintettes, with clarionet obbligato. It was a piece 
well calculated to display the characteristic voicing of this 
register. One of Mr. Best's own compositions was the next on 
the programme, being an adagio from his fourth book. The 
succession of chords at the opening of the adagio played on the 
tubas of the solo organ was remarkably fine, and was a decided 
contrast to the theme which followed for the soft and expressive 
stops of the organ. Mr. Best was particularly happy in this 
piece, and indulged in many fine examples of combinations, the 
effect of which was very pleasing. Piece No. 4 was an echo 
movement from Bach's Partita in B minor. It is an exceedingly 
quaint composition, and derives its name from a short succession 
of notes being repeated pianissimo every now and then. The 
movement concluded with a fugue in G minor, from the fourth 
volume of the same composer's organ works. Lemmen's 



igS ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

Fantasia in D major concluded the first part of the recital. 
This work comprises three movements, and is to be found in the 
composer's " Ecole d'Orgue," published in 1862. The first, a 
sprightly fanfare of trumpets played staccato throughout, arrests 
the ear at once by its characteristic rhythm. This gives place to 
an allegretto cantabile for the light flue registers, and the piece 
ends with an allegro maestoso which brought the entire resources 
of the organ into play. The audience had thus an opportunity 
of judging of its great . power and ponderosity of tone. 
Mendelssohn's F minor Sonata, No. i began the second part 
of the programme. The playing of this work was a masterly 
effort, particularly so in the tranquil harmony of the adagio 
movement, and fully merited the hearty applause which 
followed its performance. Lefdbure-Wdly's offertorium in B 
flat major was the next selection, and the recital concluded with 
Handel's Organ Concerto, C minor and major. This was 
probably the finest piece in the programme, and Mr. Best's 
playing of it was superb. The work opens with a succession of 
stately phrases, followed by a characteristic allegro which the 
composer, must have esteemed very highly as it has been 
employed by him in three other of his instrumental works. 
The minuette is a gem, and quite entranced the audience. The 
last movement, an allegro con brio, afforded another opportunity 
of hearing the full organ." 



No. 7. — St. Mark's, Leeds, and Eccles Parish Church. 

These are two representative instruments of a Leeds organ 
builder, whose excellent work is becoming daily more appreciated 
and sought for. In my articles on " Organs and Organists " I 
find it impossible to please all parties (if I did, I should not 
realise the truth of ^Esop's fable of the old man and the ass), 
especially those " in the trade," and those interested in the 
trade. Still, I feel conscious of possessing honesty of purpose, 
and a willingness at all times to undergo an examination, oral or 
written, on the real merits of those organists and organ builders 
whose works and acts I have ventured to record and criticise, I 
hope with advantage to those interested in these matters. 
Being perfectly independent of all, I can boldly assert my right 
to my own views and ideas, and have (as the saying goes) " the 
courage of my opinions." Of course they do not please all. 
Poets, painters, and musicians are all very sensitive, at least 



ST. mark's church, LEEDS. 



199 



those who possess taste, enthusiasm, or feeling ; and I can 
therefore the more readily forgive those who trespass on my 
views and opinions, just as I hope to be forgiven on the other 
side. But all men who are raised above savage life, who ought 
to be considerably improved by arts, government, and conver- 
sation, should become more liberal in their views towards those 
who differ from them — those who wish to throw light and 
leading on matters which they have made their life study (and 
if you like) their " hobby." We cannot now reduce our 
writings, conversations, and behaviour to the uniformity and 
mode of other days. 



St. Mark's Organ. 

The organ in St. Mark's Church should be seen and heard to 
be properly understood and appreciated. It is indeed a fine 
instrument, and this opinion is shared by my respected friend, 
Mr. W. T. Best, as well as other organists less celebrated. 

Compass cf Manuals, CC to C. 
,, Pedals, CCC to F. 

Concave and Radiating Pedals, C of Org. scale. 
Blown by two hydraulic engines, which work five double-acting feeders, which 
send wind into a special reservoir preparatory to its passing into reservoirs in organ. 
Spotted metal pipes throughout. Solid ivory stop knobs. 

Great Organ. (Wind, 3^ inches.) 



I. Bourdon 


... 16 ft. 


7. Wald Flute 


... 4 ft. 


2. Large Open Diapason 


... 8 ft. 


-8. Twelfth 


... 2§ ft. 


3. Small ,, „ . 


... 8 ft. 


9. Fifteenth 


... 2 ft. 


4. Gamba 


... 8 ft. 


10. Mixture (3 ranks) ...' 


various 


5. Harmonique Mute ... 


... 4 ft. 


II. Trumpet 


... 8 ft. 


6. Octave 


... 4 ft. 


12. Clarion 


... 4 ft. 


Choir Organ. 


(In a Sw( 


t\\ box. Wind, 3 inches.) 




I. Open Diapason 


... 8 ft. 


4. Lieblich Gedact 


... 8 ft. 


2. Gamba ... , . . . 


... 8 ft. 


5. Dolce 


... 4 ft. 


3. Quate Flute 


... 8 ft. 


6. Clarionet 


... 8 ft. 


Swell Organ. ( 


Wind, 3J inches.) 




I. Bourdon 


... 16 ft. 


8. Mixture (3 ranks) ... 


various 


2, Open Diapason 


... 8 ft. 


9. Piccolo 


... 2ft. 


3. Stopped ,, 


... 8 ft. 


10. Contra Faggotto ... 


... 16 ft. 


4. Salicional 


... 8 ft. 


ir. Cornotean 


... 8 ft. 


5. Voix Celeste 


... 8 ft. 


12. Oboe 


... 8 ft. 


6. Octave 


... 4^. 


13. Clarion 


8 ft. 


7. Harmonique Flute . . . 


4 ft. 






Pedal Organ. ( 


Wind, 3j inches.) 




I. Double Open Diapason 


... 16 ft. 


5. Violoncello ... 


... 8 ft. 


2. Violone 


... 16 fi. 


6. Flute Bass ... 


... 8 ft. 


3. Sub. Bass 


... 16 ft. 


7. Quint 


...lOf ft. 


4. Principal 


... 8 ft. 







200 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

Couplers. 



8. Choir to Great. 

9. Choir to Pedal. 

10. Choir to Octave. 

11. Great to Pedal. 

12. Great to Octave. 

13. Tremulant to Swell. 

14. Tremulant to Choir. 



1. Swell to Great. 

2. Swell to Choir. 

3. Swell to Pedal. 

4. Swell to Sub. Octave. 

5. Swell to Octave. 

6. Swell to Great Sub. Octave. 

7. Swell to Great Octave. 

Four Combination Pedals to Great and Pedal Organ. 

Three Combination Pedals to Swell Organ. 

Double-action Combination Pedals for Great to Pedal Coupler. 

This instrument was the munificent gift of the Misses March, 
of Beech Grove House, Leeds, who were good enough to place 
the designing thereof in my hands. Of the fabrication by Mr. 
J. J. Binns, I will only here quote from a local journal of May 
27th, 1889 : — " The new organ which has been presented by the 
Misses March in memory of their father, the late Mr. J. O. 
March, was yesterday morning dedicated to the service of God. 
The instrument is a very fine one, and has cost upwards of 
£1,600, The organ scheme was prepared by Dr. Spark, and 
the result is very satisfactory. The great organ has 12 stops 
and 854 pipes; the swell organ 13 stops and 903 pipes ; choir 
organ 6 stops, 366 pipes ; pedal organ 7 stops, 1 26 pipes ; and 
couplers 15 stops, a total of 53 stops and 2,249 pipes. Both the 
choir and swell organs are enclosed in separate swell boxes. 
All the metal pipes are of spotted metal. The organ has been 
built by Mr. J. J. Binns, of Bramley, and it is furnished 
throughout with his patent tubular pneumatic action. The 
instrument, which is enclosed in a handsome oak case, designed 
by Mr. Walter A. Hobson, architect, Leeds, is blown by two of 
Mr. William Speight's patent hydraulic engines, which are 
started and stopped from the keyboard by his patent automatic 
starter. During the service yesterday Dr. Spark played 
selections. After the Psalms had been sung in the morning 
he played the voluntaries, * Angels ever bright and fair ' and 
* The Nightingale Chorus/ both by Handel. At the conclusion 
of the service the ' Dead March ' from Sau/ was played at the 
special request of the donors of the organ. The tone of the 
instrument was greatly admired. The sermon in the morning 
Wcis preached by the Vicar of Leeds, the Rev Dr. Talbot. In 
the course of his remarks he said that among the moods of 
human nature there were those of praise and adoration, and the 
two naturally met. As they met they found expression. 
Referring to the gift of the organ he said that if he was not 
mistaken, it had been given in the true spirit of praise and 
reverence to God, and was meant as a help to those who 
worshipped in the church, in their adoration and praise." 



ST., MARKS CHURCH, LEEDS. 



S>. Mirk's Church Otgin. 



202 



ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 



EccLES Parish CnuRCir Organ. 

With regard to the organ in Eccles Parish Church, on which 
I had the pleasure to give a recital a short time since, I may say, 
without doubt, that it is a really beautiful instrument, and 
reflects equal credit on the specificator (Mr. Kendrick Pyne, of 
the Cathedral, Manchester), and the builder (Mr. J. J. Binns). 
It has not, however, the advantage of space, as at St. Mark's, 
Leeds. It had to be divided, like some other organs, and here 
the " tubular pneumatic appliances " came in for good and, as it 
turned out, most successful operation. The grand old church of 
Eccles, built over 800 years ago, is not the best fane in England 
for an organ, and the tones of the instrument are heard with 
varied effect in different parts of the building. I was 
disappointed with the result of the diapasons when playing on 
the great organ as compared with those at St. Mark's, Leeds, 
but on leaving the instrument and going into the vestry, on 
which the organ abutted, I was astonished to find that the 
power, as exhibited by Mr. Binns, was 50 per cent, more 
than I had imagined when I was myself at the keys. Mr. W. 
C. Lord, one of an eminent firm of solicitors in Manchester, who 
has been aii efficient amateur organist for many years past 
(^having a worthy deputy in Mr. Denton), informs me that the 
present organ is not only highly appreciated and approved of 
by the parishioners, but is generally regarded as the best 
instrument in that part of Lancashire. 

The following is the specification of the organ : — 





Great 


Organ. 






Ft. 


Pipes. 




Ft. Pipes. 


I. Bourdon ... 


... 16 


61 


8. Nazard 


... 2| 61 


2. Op. Diapason ... 


... X 


61 


9. Doublette 


.. 2 61 


3. Principal 


... 8 


61 


10. Mixture, 3 ranks 


various 183 


4. Bourdon 


.. 8 


61 


II. Trumpet 


... 8 61 


5. Flute Harinonique 


... 8 


61 






6, Do. do. 


... 4 


61 


■ 


Total 793 


7. Octave 


... 4 


61 








wSWELL 


Organ. 






Ft. 


Pipes. 




Ft. Pipes. 


I. Bourdon 


... 16 


61 


8. Cornet, 3 ranks 


various 183 


2. Op. Diapason ... 


... 8 


61 


9. Bassoon... 


... 16 61 


3. Salicional 


... 8 


61 


10. Trumpet 


.. 8 6i 


4. Viol d'Orchestra 


... 8 


61 


II. Hautbois 


... 8 61 


^. Voix Celestes ... 


... 8 


49 


12. Clarion ... 


... 4 6x 


6. Gedact 


... 8 


61 




_ — 


7. Octave ... 


... 4 


61 




Total 842 



BCCLE5 PARISH CHURCH. 



204 



ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 



Solo Organ. 



1. Violin-e-Cello 

2. Gedact ... 

3. Flute douce 

4. Octavin ... 

5. Clarinette 



1. Contre Bass 

2. Bourdon ... 

3. Quinte 

4. Octave ... 

5. Flute 



1. Swell to Great. 

2. Swell Sub. to Great. 

3. Swell Octave to Great. 

4. Solo to Great. 

5. Swell Octave. 

6. Swell Suboctave. 

7. Solo Suboctave. 



Great Organ 
Swell Organ 
Solo Organ 
Pedal Organ 
Couplers, etc. 



Ft. Pipes. 
8 61 



8 

4 

2 
8 



61 
61 
61 
61 



6. Orchestral Oboe. 

7. Vox Humana 

8. Tuba 



Ft. Pipes. 

8 61 

8 61 

8 61 



Pedal Organ. 



Ft. Pipes. 

16 30 

16 30 

io§ 12 

8 12 

8 12 



6. Trombone 

7. Trumpet .. 



Total 488 



Ft. Pipes. 

16 30 

8 12 



Total 



138 



Couplers. 

8. Great to Pedals. 

9. Swell to Pedals. 

10. Solo to Pedals. 

1 1. Solo to Swell. 

12. Tremulant to Swell. 

13. Tremulant to Solo. 



Summary. 



II Stops. 
12 
8 



»» 



>» 



7 M 

13 » 



793 Pipes. 
842 ,, 
488 

138 



>» 



Total 51 Stops. 2,261 Pipes. 

3 Combination Pedals to Great and Pedal Organs, and 3 to Swell Organ. 



No. 8. — Belgium Built Organs in V^orkshire. 



The Priory Church, Bridlington ; 
St. Mary's (Roman Catholic), Bradford. 

As will have been noticed by the accounts I have endeavoured 
to give of various instruments now to be seen and heard here 
in the North — there are organs and organs — organists and 
organists — ^just as there are various qualities of " woollens " to 
be had in Clothopolis — good, bad, and indifferent. Fortunately 



THE PRIORY CHURCH, BRIDLINGTON. 205 

for me, I have not yet had to do with a wholly " indifferent " 
organ, though doubtless some part» of those described deserve 
the appellation. So far, with the exception of the magnificent 
flue-work in the Doncaster organ, and certain portions of 
Cavaille*s French instrument in the Albert Hall, Sheffield, the 
English builders have carried off the palm ; and for this, I, for 
one, am justly proud. For general excellence of tone, material 
(both wood and metal), fine inside work, and a highly 
commendable and conscientious desire to give (what used not to 
be done) "a good penny's worth for a penny" — the present class 
of Yorkshire organ builders, led by Abbott and Smith, Brindley 
and Foster, Binns, Conachers, and Forster and Andrews (I give 
them alphabetically), are not easily to be beaten by the 
distinguished facteurSy either of our own metropolis or the 
Continent. 

Undoubtedly the Americans are closely upon our heels, and 
Hilborne L. Roosevelt, who has extensive factories in New 
York, Philadelphia, and Baltimore, has built some magnificent 
organs in various cities and towns of the States, in which 
largeness has not been their only recommendation, but in tone 
(always remember this is the chief point in an organ), as well as 
in the invention and application of many ingenious mechanical 
contrivances, all have combined to waft Roosevelt's fame as an 
organ facteur to the " four quarters of the globe." But it must 
be remembered that this distinguished artist has not accom- 
plished this without doing that which many advanced organists 
of the English School recommended their countrymen to do " a 
long while ago," namely, to "take tours through Germany, 
France, and England, in order personally to inspect various 
foreign inventions, and to enable us (Roosevelt) to cultivate the 
personal acquaintance of the most celebrated makers there, 
and to thoroughly master every detail of their various systems." 

In the notice I will now proceed with of the principal 
Belgian organs built and erected in England by M. Chas. 
Anneessens, of Grammont, Belgium, I scarcely think the 
builder has been quite as " cute " as Brother Jonathan, but has 
preferred to take his models from the best Franco-Belgian 
specimens to which he could get access, and thus lost sight 
of the distinguishing excellencies and specialities of the chef 
d'oeuvres of the Germans and English. Nevertheless, M. Chas. 
Anneessens has built some remarkable organs, not the least of 
which is that in the grand old Priory Church, Bridlington, the 
following being the specification : — 



2o6 



ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 



Great Organ. 6i Notes. 



I. Large Open Diapason 


... 16 ft. 


8. Twelfth 


... 3 ft 


2. Lar^e Open Diapason 


... 8 ft. 


9. Piccolo 


... 2 ft. 


3. Bourdon 


... 16 ft. 


10. Cornet (2-3-4 ranks) 




4. Violin 


... 8 ft. 


II. Bombarde 


... 16 ft. 


5. Harmonic Flute 


... 8 it. 


12. Trumpet 


... 8 ft. 


6. Ocarina 


... 4 ft- 


13. Clarion 


... 4 ft. 


7. Principal 


... 4 ft. 








Choir Organ. 61 Notes. 




14. Hohlflute 


... 8 ft. 


18. Bourdon 


... 8 ft. 


15. Viola 


... 8 ft. 


19. Clarineite anches libres 


... 8 ft. 


16. Gemshorn 


... 8 ft. 


20. Melophone 


... 4 ft. 


17. Open Diapason 


... 8 ft. 






Swell Organ. 61 Notes. 




21. Bourdon 


... 16 ft. 


27. Flageolet 


... 2 ft. 


22. Stopped Diapason ... 


... 8 ft. 


28. Piccolo 


... I it. 


23. Open Diapason 


... 8 ft. 


29. Mixture (3 ranks) 




24. Viol de Gembe 


... 8 ft. 


30. Trumpet Harnionic 


... 8 fit. 


25. Voix Celeste 


... 8 ft. 


31. Basson Hautbois ... 


... 8 ft 


26. Flute 


..., 4 ft. 


32. Voix Humaina 


... 8 ft. 




Pedal Orga 


N. 30 Notes. 




33. Sousbasse 


... 16 ft. 


38. Tuba 


... 8 ft. 


34. Grosse Open Flute .. 


... 16 ft. 


39. Bombarde 


... 16 ft. 


35, Quinte 


.. 12 ft. 


40. Tu basson 


... 16 ft. 


36. Basse Flute 


... 8 ft. 


41. Contratuba .. 


... 32 ft. 


37. Basse... 


... 4 ft. 







Couplers and Accessory Pedals. 



1. Great to Pedal. 

2. Choir to Pedals. 

3. Swell to Pedals. 

4. Swell Super Octave. 

5. Swell Sub. Octave. 

6. Choir to Great. 

7. Swell to Choir. 



8. Reeds Great Organ. 

9. Reeds Swell Orejan. 

10. Reeds Pedal Organ. 

11. Tremolo Swell. 

12. Balanced Swell Pedal. 

13. 8 Combination Buttons. 



It has three manuals, separate pedals, buttons and combination pedals, all 

acting with pneumatic action. 

The builder had the advantage of height and space in 
which to erect his instrument, the result being great resonance, 
a prolongation of tone which would alternately cling to the 
arches, pillars, and roof, and delight the listener ; but which in 
a confined, flat roof, ill-ventilated, small church or chapel, 
would have had no such result, and produced no such effect. The 
flutes and reeds as in nearly all French and Belgian organs are 
charming, saving, perhaps, the 32 feet contratuba, which 
roars like a lion, but the lion has the advantage of being 
permitted to roar its mightiest from the very end of an immense 
church, with the whole of the great building's space before it 



THE PRIORY CHURCH, BRIDLINGTON. 



n PrioTF Church O^an. 



2o8 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

uninterrupted for its sounding room. The eight feet diapasons, 
and what is called the " flue work '* generally, of the great organ, 
is disappointing, a succession of single notes played slowly 
in scale fashion, up or down, one selected stop or register, 
revealing occasional weakness and irregularity. In this 
department Schulze speaks in very different tones. The swell 
organ is very effective on the whole. Some charming effects 
may be obtained by a judicious variety of stops, which have 
been voiced with great skill and delicacy. Altogether this 
Belgian instrument lacks that massive grandeur, richness, and 
solidity of tone which should characterise an English church 
organ of such size and dimensions — and especially when the 
capacity, sublimity, and beauty of the building in which it 
is placed are taken into account. The case alone of this fine 
organ is worth going to Bridlington to see. We believe it was 
constructed at the suggestion of the highly respected Rector, 
Bishop Helmuth, aided by the efforts of the wardens and the 
clever architect. At any rate I give a good representation of 
it taken from a beautful large photograph in my possession by 
Mr. J. W. Shores, of Bridlington Quay. 

The instrument was " opened " by a performer described on 
the bills, programmes, and in the advertisements as " The 
celebrated Belgian organist, M. Auguste Wiegand, Laureate of 
the Conservatoire of Liege, Medallist of the Brussels Conserva- 
toire, selected player at Crystal Palace (London), International 
Exhibition (Anvers) at Paris, Berlin, etc. ; and Organist of the 
Premier Church of SS. Peter and Paul, Ostend." Undoubtedly, 
M. Auguste Wiegand is a very clever organist, and he runs 
over the keys and pedals with much rapidity and dexterity. 
I went to hear him — anxiously and inquiringly — as I had been 
engaged to givo a series of recitals in a few days after M. 
Auguste Wiegand's firstlings. All the French pieces were 
given with glib finger and sparkling effects. 

After the performance, the builder addressed a few of the 
oflScial bystanders in some choice French phrases somewhat in 
this strain : — "Gentlemen, you have heard my magnificent organ 
played to-night by one of the finest players in the world, but 
unless Mons. Wiegand comes once more — ^you will never hear 
it again.'' This to me was an encouraging piece of information. 
Nevertheless my Saxon spirit was not to be easily daunted, 
so I screwed my courage up to the sticking point, and went in 
for my dual performances knowing that the instrument was 
fitted with those undesirable ventil pedals, and that the simplicity 
of English ** compositions " were conspicuous by their absence. 



THE PRIORY CHURCH, BRIDLINGTON. 209 

I went with my clever young pupil, Herbert England, the 
day previous to have a couple of hours' quiet study of, and 
practice on the organ. But the gas-engine which supplied the 
wind stopped, and we were obliged to leave, and wait until 
the next day at noon, when we again appeared, but only to 
find the same state of things, the result being that only about 
ten minutes before the recital was to begin could I try this 
complicated instrument. Wiegand had practised on it, I was 
told, for six or seven hours. However, as good luck would have 
it, I played the whole of my programme to the crowded congre- 
gation without the occurrence of any mishap whatever, and 
at the second performance in the evening I felt quite at home 
with the instrument. 

1 do not know the exact cost of this organ, but the reason 
given to me for preferring Mons. Anneessens to any English 
builder was that, in consequence of the much cheaper material 
and labour at Grammont, the organ could be obtained for 
nearly one-half the price that would be charged for it in Great 
Britain, Germany, or America. But cheapness in the service or 
employment of art is not always satisfactory, as most of 
us by experience well know. The late Henry Smart, 
whose opinions on this point, and all other matters relating 
to the art and science of music, are always held in esteem 
by those who can appreciate their value, said : — 

" The organ is generally regarded by clergymen and 
committees as an aggregate of materials ; it is placed on the 
same level as a building of bricks and mortar, planks and nails ; 
yet, strange to say, the vital part of the arrangements, and that 
which alone gives the specification any value in building 
contracts, is innocently lost sight of, both by vendor and purchaser, 
in organ transactions. The intention of a building ' specification' 
is to furnish details and quantities of every portion of the 
structure, and the sole purport of demanding a specification is 
that any competent referee may be called in to determine 
whether the identical terms of the contract have been fulfilled in 
all particulars honestly and faithfully ; it is a safeguard against 
shams in the materials used, a check against scamping work- 
manship, and a protest against flimsiness of structure ; it 
binds the builder to give the value which can be endorsed by 
competent authority as fair and genuine and just. Without 
such statistical enumeration of details of weights and quantities, 
a specification is for the purpose of estimating comparative value 
worth no more than waste paper. A house builder's tender has 
a definite meaning, an organ builder's tender, drawn up after the 

O 



2IO ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

fashion of the day, has none ; for the agreement to give a 
certain number of manuals, stops, and pipes, is no more 
guarantee of the worth of the structure than a builder's 
undertaking to build a house with a certain number of doors, 
windows, and chimneys, for a specified sum ; quantity and 
quality of materials and style and finish of work being voluntarily 
agreed upon to be left to imagination. A specification of stops, 
given as a basis for competition, offers a premium to the lowest 
style of work, invites the unscrupulous manufacturer to practice 
all his methods of cheapening, and tricks of appearance, and too 
often secures to the least worthy the patronage and the profit. 
It is not to be expected that amateurs, however highly 
cultivated as musicians, should have the knowledge of details 
equal to that which the builder of high class work possesses, 
enabling him to estimate the structural suitability, balance of 
weight, and proportion of wind, tone, and quality, and truthful 
finish of work brought under his judgment ; still less is it likely 
that a committee of gentlemen, chosen chiefly for their social 
standing and intelligence, and to whom the task of selecting an 
organ is delegated as a token of personal esteem, should be 
capable of pronouncing upon a matter which the best musicians 
know to be a test of severest critical acumen, and to call 
for the well-considered exercise of practical judgment. The 
buyers therefore lean upon specification — lean on a reed 
— hold to a shadow — trust to the letter, and lose alike 
truth, substance, and spirit. A keen satire has been passed 
upon the modern system, in an article in the Builder :— 'A 
large proportion of church organs are now turned out in a sort 
of wholesale fashion ; indeed, one very large firm is accused of 
making its smaller church organs in lengths of 300 feet at a 
time, and cutting off as much as is wanted by each customer.' 
The satire comes very near the truth. There are firms, the 
honour of whose ancient names should have preserved them 
from yielding to the temptation, yet who nevertheless descend 
to the lowest grade of petty competition, and haggle for an 
order as eagerly as the retired workman who has set up in 
business to undersell them." 

With regard to the second Anneessens organ — that in St. 
Mary's, East Parade, Bradford, it is undoubtedly a much larger 
and finer instrument than that in the Priory Church, Bridlington, 
as will be seen from the abbreviated specification put out by the 
authorities in the following form : — The organ has been built by 
M. Chas. Anneessens, of Grammont, Belgium, the builder of the 
famous organ in St. Peter's (Italian) Church, Hatton Garden, 



THE PRIORY CHURCH, BRIDLINGTON. 



211 



London, St. Joseph's and St. James', Antwerp, SS. Peter and 
Paul's, Ostend, the Cathedral, Breda, Holland, and others. It 
is provided with four manual claviers, each with 6i notes (CC to 
C), pedal clavier with thirty notes (CCC to F), sixty speaking 
stops distributed according to the appended list ; and 3,307 
pipes. The organ occupies the gallery, built for the purpose, on 
the west side of the church, with the blowing apparatus in the 
rooms beneath, and the console is placed in the Lady Chapel on 
the east side of the church, thirty feet distant from the organ. 
The whole of the mechanism for actuating every pallet, slide, 
coupler, and adjustment is arranged on Messrs. Schmoele and 
MoPs patent electro-pneumatic system. The bellows are worked 
by two of Melling's patent water motors, supplied by Messrs. F. 
and J. Butterfield and Co. (Limited), engineers, Keighley, and 
the case is of carved oak, after designs furnished by Edward 
Simpson, Esq., architect, Bradford. 







Solo Organ. 




I. 


Orchestral Flute 


... 4 it. 


4. Orchestral Oboe 


8 ft. 


2. 


Violon 


... ft. 


5. Tromba 


8 ft. 


3. 


Hohlflute 


8 ft. 

Swell 


Organ. 




I. 


Bourdon 


16 ft. 


10. Piccolo ... 


2 ft. 


2. 


Stopped Diapason . 


8 ft. 


II. Piccolo 


ift. 


3- 


Open Diapason 


8 ft. 


12. Mixture (3 ranks) 




4- 


Violon 


8 ft. 


13. Contra Fagotta 


16 ft. 


S- 


Salicional 


8 ft. 


14. Trompette ... 


8 ft. 


.6. 


Voix Celeste ... 


8 ft. 


15. Bason Hautbois 


8 ft. 


7- 


Echo Flute ... 


4 ft. 


16. Clarion 


4tt. 


8. 


Melophone ... 


4 ft. 


17. Voix Humanie 


8 ft. 


9. 


Twelfth 


3 ft. 

Great 


Organ. 




I. 


Double Open Diapas 


on ... 32 ft. 


9. Principal 


4 ft. 


2. 


Double Diapason 


16 ft. 


10. Flute Octaviante ... 


4 ft. 


3- 


Bourdon 


j6ft. 


II. Fifteenth 


2 ft. 


4. 


Stopped Diapason . 


8 ft. 


12. Cornet (2, 3, and 4 ranks) 




5. 


Small Open Diapasoi 


1 ... 8 ft. 


13. Grave Mixture (4 ranks) 




6. 


Large Open Diapasoi 


1 ... 8 ft. 


14. Clarion 


4 ft. 


7. 


Viol di Gamba 


8 ft. 


15. Trompette ... 


8 ft. 


8. 


Harmonic Flute 


8 ft. 

Choir 


16. Bombarde 

Organ. 


16 ft. 


I. 


Lieblich Gedact 


16 ft. 


6. Gemshorn k Cone 


8 ft. 


2. 


Rohr Flute ... 


8 ft. 


7. Ocarina 


4 ft. 


3- 


Viola ... 


6 ft. 


8. Fugara 


4 ft. 


4- 


Dulciana 


8 ft. 


9. Clarionette k Pavilion 


8 ft. 


5- 


Open Diapason 


8 ft. 







212 



ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 



1. Open Flute 

2. Grosse Open Flute 

3. Bourdon 

4. Violon 

5. Sub -Basse 

6. Flute ... 

7. Violoncello ... 



Pedal Organ (d, didoublenient), 

8. Basse 

9. Principal 

10. Mixture (3 ranks) 

11. Tubason 

12. Tubason 

13. Tuba Major... 



... 32 ft. 


... 16 ft. 


... 16 ft. 


... 16 ft. 


... 8 ft. 


... 8 ft. 


... 8 ft. 



4 ft. 
4 ft. 

8 ft. 
16 ft. 
32 ft. 



Couplers and Accessory Movements. 



Choir to Pedals. 
Great to Pedals. 
Swell to Pedals. 
Solo to Pedals. 
Pedal Action. 
Choir to Great. 

7. Choir Sub-Octave. 

8. Choir Super-Octave. 
Great Super-Octave. 
Swell to Great. 
Swell Sub-Octave. 
Swell Super-Octave. 



I. 
2. 

3. 

4- 

5. 
6. 



9- 
\o. 

II. 
12. 



13. Swell Sub-Octave to Great. 

14. Swell Super- Octave to Great. 

15. Solo to Great. 

16. Solo to Swell. 

17. Solo Sub- Octave. 

18. Solo Super-Octave. 

19. Solo Sub-Octave to Great. 

20. Solo to Swell (Mechanical) Couplers. 

21. Pedal Reeds. 

22. Great Reeds. 

23. Swell Reeds. 

24. Solo Reeds. 



Accessory Movements by Pedals. 



1. Choir to Pedals. 

2. Great to Pedals. 

3. Swell to Pedals. 

4. Solo to Pedals. 

5. General Forte. 

6. Pedal Reeds. 



7. Great Reeds. 

8. Swell Reeds. 

9. Solo Reeds. 

10. Swell Tremulant. 

11. Pedal to Swell Box. 

12. Pedal to Solo Box. 



Four combination buttons to each manual. 

There can be no doubt that M. Anneessens has built some 
fine organs in the French School and manner in England ; and 
although, as I have pointed out, they are deficient in the best 
and most valued features of the English and German styles — to 
wit, the "flue work" — yet they contain so much that is good, 
both in foundation tone and workmanship, as to command the 
admiration of all those who take an honest, genuine interest in 
the subject, and who desire to get and see the best of everything 
pertaining to the grand art of organ building, and to aid in 
the development and indefectibility of all points and matters 
surrounding and connected with the king of instruments. 



No. 9. — Wakefield Cathedral. 

Wakefield is now a cathedral city. Not a city of the first 
class, like York and Ripon, but nevertheless a cathedral 
city. Leeds, Halifax, and Huddersfield preferred their claims, 
but were ultimately superseded by the more ancient city 



WAKEFIELD CATHEDRAL. 213 

of Wakefield. I remember as a boy, when an admirer of 
ecclesiastical architecture, being taken to view Wakefield 
Cathedral as one of the relics of the past in Yorkshire. In 
company with many members of the Architectural Society I 
need not say that I was not disappointed, for it is indeed a most 
interesting fane, and one which excites the greatest admiration, 
not only in the 
architectural stu- 
dent, but in any 
onehai'ingasense 
of admiration for 
the grand and 
beautiful in art. 

Dr. John W. 
Walker, F.S.A., 
has compiled a 
work entitled 
" The History of 
the Old Parish 
Church of All 
Saints', Wake- 
field, now the 
Cathedral Church 
of the Diocese of 
Wakefield," a 
valuable and ex- 
haustive book, 
and to the author 
I beg to express 
my acknowledg- 
ments for many 
points of infor- 
mation which I 

have used. WaVeficlil Cwhedral Organ 

Thomas Wentworth, Earl of Strafford, who placed an organ 
in York Minster about 1639, also presented one to the Parish 
Church of Wakefield, the date of which is uncertain, but in 1624 
there is the following entrj- in the churchwardens' book : — 
" Item, to ye organist 5d.," showing, at any rate, that there was 
an organ then ; but there is no previous record of either organ 
or organist at Wakefield, though there can be no question about 
it that after the capture of the town in 1643, the instrument, 
like a great many others in the county, was destroyed. The 
organ fills up the north chancel aisle, and at the east end 



214 



ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 



sufficient space is left to form a choir vestry. This interesting 
fact is recorded: — Item," In 1725 paid to the bellman for crying 
ye damaging of ye organs, 3d." Another item : — " Nov. 6th, 
1743, expended at several times in collecting the subscription 
money for the organ, ids. 6d." The next interesting item that 
I have to deal with is an estimate by William Gray, organ 
builder, of London, whose daughter in after years Mr. Frederick 
Davison married, and thus the famous firm of Gray and 
Davison was founded. This house built the Leeds Town Hall 
organ and the Crystal Palace organ. The memorandum is so 
extremely interesting that I make no apology for introducing 
it here. 

"Wakefield, May 19th, 1804, 
" An estimate by William Gray, organ builder, of London, to 
build a new organ and fix same in the old organ case in the 
Parish Church of Wakefield, Yorkshire. The organ to have 
three separate rows of keys, viz., great organ, choir organ, and 
swell ; the compass of the great organ and choir ditto to be 
from G G long octaves up to F in all inclusive- The swell from 
tenor F to F in all inclusive. The organ to have two large 
pair of bellows, and a set of feet pedals from the lower octave 
of the great organ. The composition of stops as below : — 



Great Organ. 

Two Open Diapasons, in metal 

throughout. 
One Stop ditto. 

Principal \ 

Flute f Pipes 

1 2th I 932 

Sexquialtera (3 rank). 

Tierce. 

Mixture (2 rank). 

Cornet (4 do.) 

Mounted. 

Trumpet throughout. 

Swell Organ. 

Open Diapason. 
Stop do. 
Principal. 

Cornet (3 ranks) 333 pipes. 

Trumpet. 
Hautboy. 



Choir Organ. 

Open Diapason, metal throughout. 

Pipes 
464. 



Stop Diapason 
Flute 

15th 

Mixture (2 ranks). 

New invented Violoncello Principal. 



Pipes. 

Great Organ ... .. ... 932 

Choir Organ ... 464 

Swell Organ ... 333 

Total number of pipes ... ^»729 



" The whole of the before mentioned work to be done with 
the best dry, well-seasoned materials (warranted). To be 
packed and completely erected in the before mentioned church 
within fifteen months from the time the order is given, for the 






WAKEFIELD CATHEDRAL. 215 

sum of 630 guineas, carriage of organ and gilding of front 
pipes only excepted, the packing case to be returned. W. Gray 
would allow 50 guineas for the materials belonging to the 
old organ. 

(Signed) Wm. Gray." 

There appears to have been nothing particular to note with 
reference to the organ until the year 1837. when Mr. Booth 
added several stops, and the year 1879, when Mr. Alfred 
Kirkland, of Wakefield, rebuilt and enlarged the instrument, 
which now consists of three rows of keys, 1 1 stops in the great 
organ, 1 1 in the swell, eight in the choir organ, and seven in the 
pedal. Taken altogether the instrument is certainly effective, 
but it owes very much to the resonant properties of the 
building. My visit to the Cathedral on Sunday evening, 
April 19th last, was fraught with much interest and pleasure. 
The service throughout was one of quiet but earnest 
devotion and musical effect. From what I had been informed 
I did not expect to hear so good a choral service. The choir of 
some 80 white-robed choristers, accompanied by the Ven. 
Archdeacon Straton, the vicar, entered the church to the 
strains of the organ and an appropriate hymn. The versicles 
and prayers were sung to the time-honoured Tallis, than which 
no more beautiful music was ever heard in the precincts of a 
church or cathedral. For many years Mr. Frederick Dykes was 
the choir-master, and took a deep interest in the music of the 
church. Mr. Matthew Peacock, M A., the master of the 
Wakefield Grammar School, is now the choir-master, and is 
anxious to add to the reputation of the choir by a production 
of Stainer's Crucifixion^ Spohr's Last Judgment^ etc. 

There have been many famous organists at Wakefield 
Cathedral, among others Mr. White, who was not only celebrated 
as organist at Wakefield, but also at Harewood village church ; 
but he was more famous as a violin player than as an organist, 
and when I was an articled pupil of Dr. Wesley, in 1843, at 
Leeds, Mr. White was engaged by the Choral Society, of 
which " Old Billy Smith," as they called him then, the amateur 
flute player, led the orchestra, conducted by Dr. Samuel 
Sebastian Wesley, and many were the wranglings and alter- 
cations that took place at the rehearsals between the two as to 
the readings of the various works which were under rehearsal, 
study, and consideration. Mr. C. W. Hardy is the present 
painstaking organist at the Cathedral, and I am proud to 
acknowledge him as a former pupil of mine. 



2l6 



ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 



No. lo. — RuDSTON Church Organ, Etc. 

It is gratifying to me to find here an opportunity of speaking 
of the organ works of Messrs. J. Wordsworth & Co., the head 
of which firm has added one more name to the long record of 
self-made men whose talents and commercial enterprise have 
helped to raise Leeds in its prosperity to its high position and 
undoubted trade influence. Messrs. Wordsworth began business 
in a small way in 1866 in Sweet Street West, Holbeck, in some 
property belonging to the Wordsworth family (Taylor, 
Wordsworth and Company). Here it was that they constructed 
an excellent instrument of two manuals and 25 stops, which 
was placed in St. Peter's Church, Hunslet Moor, and opened 
with the new building in 1868. The diapasons and reeds of 
this cleverly made instrument, for a young firm (Mr. Wordsworth 
having personally made and voiced all the reeds himself), were 
greatly admired by numerous experienced organists and 
amateurs, and thus the corner-stone was laid of the new organ 
builder's future success. 

Mr. Wordsworth did not fail to avail himself of the advantages 
to be derived from the erection of the magnificent instruments 
in the Leeds Town Hall and Doncaster Parish Church, and he 
accordingly set to work to improve the voicing of the reeds 
and the diapasons. With this advanced knowledge he entirely 
rebuilt and added a choir organ in St. Peter's Church ; and this 
is a synopsis of the instrument as it now stands : — 

Great Organ. 



I. 

2. 

3- 
4. 

5- 


Large Open Diapason. 
SmiU Open Diapason. 
Stopped Diapason. 
vSalcicnal. 
Principal. 




6. 

7- 
8. 

9. 
10. 


Harmonic Flute. 
Twelfth. 
Fifteenth. 
Mixture (3 ranks). 
Trumpet 






Swell Organ. 




II. 

12. 

13. 

14. 

»5- 
16. 


Double Diapason. .* 
Open Diapason. 
Lieblich Gedact. 
Keraulophon. 
Voix Celeste. 
Principal. 


• 


17. 

18. 

19. 
20. 

21. 

22. 


Lieblich. 

Mixture (3 ranks). 
Double Trumpet. 
Cornopean- 
Oboe. 
Clarion. 






Choir Organ. 




23. 
24. 

2«;. 

26. 


Dolce. 

Lieblich Gedact. 
Pierced Gamba. 
Gemshorn. 




27. 
28. 

29. 


Wald Flute. 
Clarionet. 
Vox Humana. 






Pedal Organ. 




30. 
31- 
32. 


Open Diapason. 

Violone. 

Bourdon. 




33. 
34- 
35. 


Octave. 
Violoncello. 
Bass Flute. 



RUDSTON CHURCH. 



217 



Couplers. 



36. Great to Pedals. 

37. Swell to Pedal*. 

38. Choir to Pedals. 

39. Swell to Great Unison. 



40. Swell to Choir. 

41. Swell Super- Octave. 

42. Swell Sub-Octave. 

43. Tremulant. 



Mr. Wordsworth finding his business increasing rapidly, first 
removed to more commodious premises in Portland Crescent, 
near the Coliseum (the orthography of which word I maintain 
ought to be "Colosseum"). Subsequently the firm built an 
extensive factory in Hanover Avenue, Leeds, and here this 
enterprising builder has turned out highly satisfactory organs 
for the Hon. Mrs. Meynell-Ingram, the Countess of Clifton, 
and two for the Lady Elizabeth Villiers (Libbertoft and Welford 
Churches). Mr. Wordsworth had also the honour of building an 
organ for the Countess of Huntingdon's church, Basingstoke. 

But the most important work which Mr. Wordsworth has yet 
accomplished is the magnificent organ, which at the request of 
A. W. Bosvill, Esq., of Thorpe Hall, has been erected in the ancient 
church of Rudston, near Bridlington. This instrument consists of 
four manuals and 58 stops, and is worked on what is known as 
the electro-pneumatic system ; that is, it is an electric organ, all 
the stops, keys, pedals, and composition pedals, get their initial 
power from electricity. The blowing of the organ is also done 
by an electric motor. The whole instrument is of such an 
interesting character that I make no apology for here 
introducing a list of its contents. 



1. Double Diapason. 

2. Open Diapason (i). 

3. Open Diapason (2). 

4. Hohl Flute. 

5. Stopped Diapason. 

6. Principal. 



12. Lieblich Bourdon- 

13. Open Diapason. 

14. Lieblich Gedact. 

15. Keraulophon. 

16. Voix Celeste. 

17. Principal. 

18. Lieblich Flute. 



26. Violin Diapason. 

27. Gamba. 

28. Dulciana. 

29. Lieblich Gedact. 

30. Fluto Traverso. 



Great Organ. 

7. Flute. 

8. Twelfth. 

9. Fifteenth. 
10 Mixture. 
II. Trumpet. 

Swell Organ. 



19. Mixture (3 ranks). 

20. Mixture (2 ranks). 

21. Double Trumpet. 

22. Cornopean. 

23. Oboe. 

24. Vox Humana. 

25. Clarion. 



Choir Organ. 



31. Gemshorn. 

32. Flute. 

33. Piccolo. 

34. Clarionet. 



2l8 



ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 







Solo Organ. 


35. 


Viola. 




37. Oboe. 


36. 


Flute. 




38. Tuba- 






Pedal Organ. 


39. 


32ft. Bourdon. 




44. Octave. 


40. 


Bourdon (i6ft.). 




45. Flute. 


41. 


Open Diapason. 




46. Violoncello. 


42. 


Violone. 




47. Trumpet 


43. 


Trombone. 




• 48. Quint. 






4 Stop Echo Organ. 






Couplers. 


49. 


Great to Pedals. 




59. Choir to Great. 


5a 


Swell to Pedals. 




bo. Choir Octave. 


5». 


Choir to Pedals. 




61. Choir Sub-octave. 


52. 


Solo to Pedals. 




62. Solo to Great. 


53- 


Pedal Octave. 




63. Solo to Great Super 


54. 


Swell to Great Unison. 




64. Soio to Echo. 


55. 


Swell to Great Super. 




65. Echo to Swell. 


56. 


Swell to Great Sub. 




66. Great Octave. 


57. 


Swell to Choir. 




67. Tremulant to Swell 


58. 


Swell Octave. 




68. Tremulant to Echo. 



Enough has now been said, I think, to show that Mr. 
Wordsworth and his organ work are worthy of the commenda- 
tion which has been bestowed upon them,^ and of the success 
he has achieved. His factory, which possesses all the necessary 
arrangements and material for building large or small organs, 
is well worthy a visit from all those who take an interest in the 
subject. The visitor will find Mr. Wordsworth to possess a wide 
perception of men, things, and opportunities ; a belief in doing 
all that is important oneself, and a perseverance that difficulties 
only increase. He has the true instinct as an artist to 
keep life, enthusiasm, and vitality about him ; it is the secret of 
his power. I have been inclined to speak more candidly of 
Mr. Wordsworth as a man and as an artist, having known him 
for over twenty years, especially in connection with repairs and 
alterations in the organ at St. George's Church, Leeds, where I 
was organist for thirty years. 



No. II. — Leeds Town Hall. 

To give correctly and sequentially a full, true, and particular 
account of the Leeds Town Hall organ, and matters connected 
therewith, from the first suggestion of its erection in 1856 to the 
present year of grace, 1891, would fill volumes. The sea of 
private and public correspondence on the subject, pro and con^ 
could only be waded through by an interested person, or a 



LEEDS TOWN HALL. 



2 20 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

musical, historical, or literary enthusiast. When the Organ 
Committee of the Leeds Corporation, assisted by an expert (his 
name was kept a secret, but I have reason to think it was the 
famous Dr. Gauntlett^, had decided to award the advertised 
premium of ;£iSO "for the best scheme and plans for a large 
and suitable organ to be placed in the orchestra of the new 
Town Hall, to Messrs. Henry Smart (of London), and William 
Spark (of Leeds),'* a general scream of indignation went up 
from the disappointed aspirants for the honour and glory of 
designing an instrument for the noble Town Hall of Leeds, 
which greatly agitated the normal phlegmatic state of the 
Leodoensis' mind. 

The first storm having somewhat abated, another and more 
pitiless one arose when tenders were sent in for building the 
organ from the plans, drawings, and specifications. The 
competitors included Messrs. Hill and Son, Messrs. Gray and 
Davison, Messrs. Bevington, Mr. Holt, of Leeds, and Messrs. 
Forster and Andrews, of Hull. Mr. Willis made no formal 
tender, but wrote privately to the chairman (Alderman Kitson), 
and offered to build the instrument for a certain sum ; but, as 
the application was informal, no notice was, I believe, taken 
thereof. After repeated meetings— and a most thorough 
examination of the tenders — the contract was finally adjudged 
to Messrs. Gray and Davison, who immediately put the great 
work in hand, and employed the most skilled craftsmen they 
had, or could obtain, for such an important product. As soon 
as the builders' names were published, the local papers were 
inundated with anathemas, protests, and dark insinuations of 
the fiercest kind. Local interests strongly urged their claim to 
consideration, organists and organ builders denounced every- 
thing and everybody connected with the '* job ; " but worst of 
all were those lay advisers who are given to impaling themselves 
on the spikes of a technicality they do not quite understand, 
on ascertaining that the designers of the proposed organ 
were "professors/^ They then hit upon the truthful sugges- 
tion that " professors " were not only egregious blockheads as to 
organ matters, but most abominably addicted to "jobbery" 
into the bargain ! From this valuable source, the Council were 
overwhelmed with warnings that if the organ-business were 
once delivered into the wicked hands of these " professors," 
not only would the organ prove a complete failure, but the 
cause of that failure would be presently apparent. 

So far as I was personally concerned, I never received a 
single farthing in " commission," or reward of any kind from 



LEEDS TOWN HALL. 



221 



the builders, as was frequently but erroneously stated at the 
time. Indeed, such a course would have been dishonourable, as 
the Council paid both Mr. Smart and myself for superintending 
the work when in progress at the factory of Messrs. Gray and 
Davison, and frequent and anxious were the visits I made 
to London for this purpose. It may also here be stated that 
in drawing up the specification, Mr. Smart and I spent many an 
hour together both in Leeds and London over it, and that 
whilst my friend certainly took the lion's share of the work — 
as I have stated in my life of this musician — as regards the 
splendid mechanical arrangements and contrivances, we equally 
shared in the general work of design, composition of the stops, 
etc., so that without specifying further our individual schemes 
and labours, we were the joint producers of this celebrated 
organ — an instrument admired alike by all honest critics, as 
well as by the general public. 

Before pointing out some of the specialities of the instrument, 
I will here give the specification of the instrument as it is at the 
present time : — 

The Orchestral Solo Organ (Uppermost Clavier) contains the 

following stops : — 

By Pipes on Sound Boards. 





Ft. 


Pipes. 




Ft. Pipes. 


I. 


Bourdon... 8 


61 


6. 


Oboe ... 8 49 


2. 


Concert Flute Harmonic 8 


42 


7. 


Cor Anglais and Bas- 


3- 


Piccolo Harmonic ... 4 


49 




soon (free reed) ... 8 61 


4- 


Ottavino Harmonic ... 2 


61 


8. 


Tromba ... ... 8 61 


5. 


Clarinet 8 


61 


9. 


Ophicleide ... ... 8 81 



By Mechanical Combination. 



10. Clarinet and FJute, in octaves. 

11. Oboe and Flute, in ditto. 

12. Clarinet and Bassoon, in ditto. 

13. Clarinet and Oboe, in ditto. 



14. Oboe and Bassoon, in ditto. 

15. Fiute, Clarinet, and Bassoon, in 

double octaves. 

16. Flute, Oboe, and Bassoon, in ditto. 



The Swell Organ (Second Clavier) contains the following stops : — 



Ft. Pipes. 

1. Bourdon... ... ..16 61 

2. Open Diapason... ... 8 61 

3. Stopped Diapason (treble) 8 49 

4. Stopped Diapason (bass) 8 12 

5. Keraulophon* ... ... 8 49 

6. Harmonic Flute ... 8 49 

7. Octave .. ... ... 4 61 

8. Gemshorn 4 61 

9. Wood Flute 4 61 

10. Twelfth ... ... ... 3 61 



11. Fifteenth 

1 2. Piccolo . . 

13. Sesquialtra 

14. Mixture 

15. Contra Fagotto 

16. Trumpet 

17. Cornopean 

18. Oboe ... 

19. Vox Humana .. 

20. Clarion 



Ft. Pipes. 

2 61 

2 61 

.4ranks244 



3 .» 


'83 


16 


61 


8 


61 


8 


61 


8 


61 


8 


61 


4 


61 



* This stop, invented by Messrs. Gray and Davison, was first introduced in the 
organ built by them for St. Paul's, Wilton Place, in 1843. It was also in their 
organ in the great Exhibition of 185 1, and for which a Council medal was awarded. 



222 



ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 



The Great Organ (Third Clavier) contains, in reality, two complete and 

distinct organs, of different powers and qualities. One, called the 

** Front Great Organ," contains the following Stops : — 



Ft. 


Pipes. 


Ft. Pipes. 


I. Double Diapason (open 




7. Twelfth 3 61 


metal) ... ... i6 


61 


8. Fifteenth 2 61 


2. Open Diapason 8 


61 


9. Quint Mixture 4ranks244 


3. Spitz Gamha 8 


61 


10. Tierce Mixture .5 „ 305 


4. Stopped Diapason ... 8 


61 


II. Trumpet 8 61 


5. Octave 4 


61 


12. Clarion ... 4 61 


6. Wald Flote 4 


61 




The contents of the ** Back Great Organ'* are as follows : — 


Ft. 


Pipes. 


Ft. Pipes. 


13. Bourdon 16 


61 


20. Piccolo Harmonic ... 2 61 


14. Flute k Pavilion .. 8 


61 


21. Cymbal ... 3 ranks 183 


15. Viola 8 


61 


22. Furniture ... 4 ranks 244 


16. Flute Harmonic ... 8 


61 


23. Contra Trombone ... 16 61 


17. Quint 8 


61 


24. Trombone ... ... 8 61 


18. Octave 4 


61 


25. Trumpet Harmonic ... 8 61 


19. Flute Octaviante ... 4 


51 


26. Tenor Trombone ... 4 61 


The Choir Organ (Lowermost Clavier) contains the following stops : — 


Ft. 


Pipes. 


Ft. Pipes. 


I. Sub dulciana ... ... 16 


61 


9. Flute Harmonic ... 4 49 


2. Open Diapason ... 8 


61 


10. Twelfth 3 61 


3 Rohr Flute (metal) ... 8 


12 


II. Fifteenth 2 6[ 


4. Stopped Diapason (Bass) 




12. Ottavino (wood) ... 2 61 


wood... ... ... 8 


49 


13. Dulciana Mixture 5 ranks 305 


5. Salcional ... ... 8 


61 


14. Euphone (free reed) ... 16 61 


6. Viol de Gamba... ... 8 


49 


15. Trumpet ... .. i 61 


7. Octave ... .. 4 


61 


16. Clarion ... 4 61 


8. Suabe Flute 4 


49 




The Echo Organ* (which can 


be played on either the Solo or Choir Clavier) 


contains the following stops : — 


Ft. ] 


Pipes. 


Ft. Pipes. 


I. Bourdon (wood) ... 16 


49 


5. Flute d' Amour (metal)... 4 61 


2. Dulciana (metal) ... 8 


49 


6. Dulciana Mixture (metal) 4 rks. 244 


3. Lieblich Gedacht (wood) 8 


61 


7. Carillons .. Tenor F to C in alt. 


4. Flute Traverso (wood)... 4 


61 




The Pedal Organ contains the following stops : — 


Ft. 


Pipes. Ft. Pipes. 


I. Sub-Bass (open metal) 32 


30 


10. Twelfth 6 30 


2. Contra Bourdon (wood) 32 


30 


II. Fifteenth 4 30 


3. Open Diapason (wood) 16 


30 


12. Mixture 4 ranks 150 


4. Open Diapason (wood) 16 


30 


13. Contra Bombard (free 


5. Violin (wood) ... ... 16 


30 


reed) ..32 30 


6. Bourdon (wood) ... 16 


30 


14. Bombard ... ... 16 30 


7. Quint (open wood) ... 12 


30 


15. Fagotto 16 30 


8. Octave ... 8 


30 


16. Clarion 8 30 


9. Violoncello 8 


30 





* The Echo Organ was added in 1865 ; it formed part of the original plan, 
and was only omitted at first on the score of expense. 



LEEDS TOWN HALL. 



223 



The Coupling Stops are as follows -. — 



1. Solo Organ to Great Clavier. 

2. Great Organ to Solo Clavier. 

3. Solo Organ Super Octave (on its 

own Clavier). 

4. Solo Organ Sub-Octave (ditto). 

5. Swell Organ to Great Super 

Octave. 

6. Swell Organ to Great Unison 

7. Swell Organ to Great Sub-Octave. 
if. Swell Organ to Choir Clavier. 



9. Choir Organ to Great Unison. 

10. Swell Organ to Pedal Clavier. 

11. Choir Organ to ditto. 

12. Great Organ to ditto. 

13. Full Pedal Organ. 

14. Solo Organ to Pedal Clavier. 

15. Echo Organ to Solo Clavier. 

16. Echo Organ to Choir Clavier. 

17. Tremulant to Echo Organ. 



The Pedals, etc., for various purposes of mechanical adjustment, are 

as follows : — 



1. Swell Pedal. 

2. Swell Pedal for Solo Organ. 

3. Swell Tremulant Pedal. 

4. Pedal admitting wind to the Back 

Great Organ. 

5. Pedal coupling the Back Great 

Organ to Swell Clavier. 



6, 7, 8, 9. Composition Pedals. 

10. Crescendo Pedals. 

11. Diminuendo Pedals- 

12. 13, 14, 15. Index to Composition 

Pedals. 
16 and 17. Wind Couplers to Compo- 
sition Pedals. 



Summary of Drav^^ Stops, 


ETC. : — 




Solo Organ 




9 


Combination Solo Organ 




7 


Swell Organ 




20 


Great Organ— Front 12, Back 14 




26 


Choir Organ 




16 


Echo Organ ... 




7 


Pedal Organ 




16 


Coupling Stops 


... 


17 



Making a total of 118 Stops. 

Besides 17 composition and other pedals for various movements, making 
altogether 135. 



Summary of Pipes: — 



Solo Organ 
Swell Organ 
Great Organ 
Choir Organ 
Echo Organ 
Pedal Organ 



Total 



506 
1,440 

1,123 
520 

600 
6,500 



These tabular statements show the Leeds organ to be one of 
the largest in Europe. But, large as it is, its claims to notice 
depend less on its size than on its completeness, and the 
facilities it offers to the skilful performer for the execution of all 
styles of music with just effect. While other organs may contain 
a larger number of actual pipes than the Leeds instrument, it 
will, nevertheless, be evident to any person inspecting the 
peculiar construction, and the number of mechanical contrivances 
for increasing the variety of effects, especially in the Solo Organ, 



224 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

that, in an almost unlimited change and degree of tone, as well 
as in an intensity of power and orchestral combinations, this 
organ stands unrivalled. 

The Musical Standard^ in its description of the Leeds Town 
Hall organ, published so late as June 29th, 1889, says : — 

" This magnificent organ was designed by Dr. William Spark, 
the present experienced organist who officially presides at the 
instrument, and the late Henry Smart. It was built by Messrs. 
Gray and Davison, and is at once a proof of the judgment and 
experience of the joint designers and of the skill of the builders, 
who produced for Leeds one of the finest organs in the world. 
Dr. Spark was appointed organist of the Town Hall over 30 
years ago, after a keen competition, and has ever since retained 
the post of organist to the Corporation. His weekly recitals are 
largely attended, and are looked forward to with keen interest 
by the good people of Leeds, who, like most Yorkshire folk, 
know how to appreciate excellent music. The organ occupies 
the north end of the hall, and is a very appropriate ornament to 
the magnificent room in which it is placed. It is upwards of 50 
feet high, about 47 feet in width, and is 25 feet deep in the 
centre. The total cost, including the case and hydraulic 
engines, was about ;£6,500. The organ has four manual 
claviers, the compass of each from CC to C in altissimo, 61 
notes, and a pedal clavier from CCC to F, 30 notes." 

The superb case was designed by Mr. Cuthbert Brodrick, the 
architect of the Hall, who received his inspiration of the kind of 
plan required from a previous drawing suggested by me to Mr. 
James, a well-known London architect, and which is now hung 
in my room at the Town Hall. The case and the beautiful oak 
carving all came from the skilful manipulation of Messrs. 
Thorpe and Atkinson, of Leeds, and cost £77^. All the pipes 
in front, including the giant-like 32ft. zinc pedal notes, were 
decorated by Mr. Craice, of London. 

Among many valuable peculiarities in the tone power of the 
organ, the solo organ presents the most remarkable. Every 
stop is what it pretends to be — a solo stop — having the nearest 
attainable relation with its orchestral prototype. Being placed 
horizontally, the tone is increased from twenty to thirty per 
cent., and there are different pressures of wind — for the bass and 
tenor six inches, and for the middle and treble portions seven 
inches, while the sonorous and powerful ophicleide has a 12-inch 
pressure. The distinctive character, however, of this solo organ 
is that which, by means of a number of mechanical contrivances, 
enables the performer to play certain of the stops in octaves to 



LEEDS TOWN HALL. 225 

each other, while merely touching single notes on the clavier. 
An infinite variety of genuine orchestral - effects are to be 
obtained from this part of the instrument, such, indeed, as are 
not to be found in any other organ that I am acquainted with. 

There are also some noteworthy features in the Great Organ, 
such as dividing the stops into two distinct masses, twelve stops 
being placed on the " front " sound-boards which are calculated 
to form a comparatively light, though powerful and brilliant 
organ, while the remaining fourteen stops placed on the " back '* 
sound-boards form a " band " entirely different to the foregoing 
in amount and quality of force. These two organs may, by the 
use of a pedal operating on the wind of the " back," be used 
separately, or in conjunction, with instantaneous effect, thus 
providing the most rapid and perfect sforzando possible. The 
twenty-six stops in the Great Organ are disposed on nine sound- 
boards of ample dimensions, and the air with which they are 
supplied is increased twice in the range of the compass, and the 
superb reed-stops have a higher initial pressure of air than that 
allotted to the flue work. 

The variety of tone to be obtained from the Great Organ 
alone is unique. Said the clever experienced critic of the 
Musical Gazette some years ago, in speaking of the Leeds 
organ : — ** In the full Great Organ there is brilliancy without 
scream, breadth without undue heaviness, and point without 
thinness, while the stops individually demand particularisation 
and the highest commendation. The variety in the 8ft. and 4ft. 
work is most admirable. There is only one open diapason, but we 
find the fliite k pavilion, the harmonic flute, the viol di gamba, 
and other stops of varied character, forming a foundation which 
is as firm and solid as can possibly be desired." 

The reed stops, not only in the Great, but throughout the 
whole organ, have been universally admitted to be the finest and 
most perfect specimens sui generis to be heard anywhere. There 
are no less than 26 of these. The trumpet and clarion of the 
" front " Great Organ were intended to follow, as nearly as 
possible, the model of that brilliant, clangy description of reeds 
which Byfield made so 'deservedly famous, a quality greatly 
neglected for many years, but which is now again being 
introduced by some of our best English and French organ 
builders. Then there are the contra-trombone, trombone, and 
tenor trombone, and the most successful achievement of the 
French school has its representative in the harmonic trumpet. 
Under all these circumstances, then, of quality and variety, 
there can be no doubt that, as a single manual, this Great Organ 

P 



226 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH 

has very few rivals in Europe. Havingr gone somewhat into 
detail in describing the Great Organ, it is needless — beyond 
stating that similar principles are observed throughout the 
instrument — to do more with respect to the swell and choir 
organs, than refer to the list of their registers as amply 
representing the qualities of these manuals respectively. In one 
respect, however, the arrangements of the swell organ differ 
from those usually adopted. Having its twenty stops disposed 
on four sound-boards, the two front ones, containing all the reed- 
work, are supplied with air at one inch heavier pressure than 
that allotted to the others. 

The adherents of the old-fashioned English " large pedal- 
pipe " school have, doubtless, been greatly scandalised by the 
absence of a 32-ft. open wood-stop from the pedal organ. When, 
however, it is remembered that the i6-ft. pitch should always 
represent the real weight of the pedal organ, that in the present 
scheme there are already three 32-ft. stopsi — namely, a metal 
open, a bourdon, and a reed, and that an immensely large 
majority of the finest continental examples authorise this 
proportion, there can be no question of its sufficiency and 
completeness. There is a convenient mechanical arrangement 
in this pedal organ which obviates most of the difficulty some- 
times complained of in manipulating a large number of pedal 
stops. Next to the coupler " Great Organ to Pedals," is placed 
a draw-stop which controls the admission of wind to all the 
pedal organ except only the violon and bourdon. As both 
these stops can be easily drawn or retired simultaneously, the 
full pedal organ may be reduced to two soft i6-ft. stops by the 
same action which detaches the great organ from the pedals. 

To quote from the original specification I may say here that, 
"In order as little as possible to perplex the operations of the 
performer, there are but four composition pedals for the whole 
instrument. These, however, by an instantaneous adjustment, 
act, as the player requires, on the Swell Organ alone, or on the 
Swell, Great, and Pedal Organs simultaneously, or on the two 
latter only. Furthermore, each of these four composition pedals 
is capable of effecting three different combinations (these 
changes extending, as before mentioned, to the Swell, Great, 
and Pedal Organs, or either of them) ; the modus operandi^ so 
far as the performer is concerned, being simply the setting of an 
index (one of which appertains to each of the composition 
pedals) to the number indicating the required combination.'' 

The two great novel and distinguishing features of the Leeds 
instrument are the combination Solo Organ and the divided 



LEEDS TOWN HALL. 227 

** front" and "back" Great Organ (both already described), 
from which a wonderful variety of tone and beautiful effects can 
be obtained ; and I am not aware that any other English organ 
possesses these remarkable advantages ; indeed, like the reeds, 
their special value and importance have never, I think, been 
questioned. 

For some years after this great work had been finished, even 
subsequent to my appointment as organist at the advertised 
salary of ;£200, and after competition for a whole day with Mr. 
Walter Parratt, Mr. James Broughton (Leeds), Mr. Hepworth 
>'Dom-Organist, Mecklenburg Schwerin), Mr. Taylor, of Oxford, 
Mr. Oldham, of Hythe, and Mr Hilton, of Manchester, before 
Sir John Goss, Mr. W. T. Best, and Mr. George Cooper, 
organist of the Chapel Royal (all of whom were located behind 
a screen where they could not see the organist), I was subjected 
to cruel and provoking attacks and annoyances. But, au 
contraire^ the local, London, and musical press, as well as the 
general public^ have generally and most generously given me 
warm support and encouragement, for which I beg here to 
express my grateful thanks. 

Before the organ was removed from the manufactory to 
Leeds, one very novel meeting was held which excited consider- 
able attention and amusement. Smart suggested that as the 
swell-box was probably the largest ever made, we should have a 
dinner therein, and invite as many friends as it would comfort- 
ably seat for that purpose ! This was duly accomplished. To 
be sure, it was a sort of pic-nic business, but it was none 
the less enjoyable on that account. One sent a fine salmon, 
another some choice entrdes from Gunter's, somebody for- 
warded a splendid haunch of venison, this friend contri- 
buted a dozen of " sparkling," that one six bottles of '34 
port, and so on. But, better than all these very nice 
comestibles and beverages, was the intellectual feast — the feast 
of reason and the flow of soul. There were ten of us: — J. W. 
Davison, George Cooper, Howard Glover, George Lake, 
Frederick Davison, J. G. Kershaw, George Case, Tom Bingham, 
Henry Smart, and myself More than one-half of these have 
gone to their final rest ! J. W. Davison (the eminent musical 
critic) and Smart were the life of the company. We had jokes 
about the " box " we had got into, the " swells " that occupied it 
— greater than any swell that would ever come out of it — our 
crescendos and diminuendos, the cleaning our pipes, and a 
hundred other y^f^' desprits^ bon motSy etc., referring to the organ 
and the occasion. Lake, who was then editor and proprietor of 



228 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

The Musical Gazette, wrote the following amusing account, which 
was published in his serial, February 27th, 1858 : — 

A DINNER IN A SWELL-BOX. 

" We know not whether it is peculiar to Englishmen to seek 
their food in the most out-of-the-way places, but certes we have 
abundant examples of this odd propensity. In the joyous 
summer-time we call our friends and neighbours together, decide 
upon a place of rendezvous, pack up five times as much prog as 
can be consumed in one day, and travel in a promiscuous 
manner to some sequestered spot where sunbugs, field mice, and 
water-wagtails abound. There folks do eat in the most 
astonishing manner in spite of the disadvantages under which 
the edition of .the meal is accomplished, sans tablecloth, to say 
nothing of sans table, sans sedentary anchorage, save that 
afforded by terra firma — Anglice, mother earth — and sans many 
comforts and conveniences, with a few such inadequacies as two 
forks between three people, one glass between four, or, on a hot 
day, when thirst is particularly prevalent, between six choking 
denizens of this enlightened hemisphere. There, and under 
these extraordinary circumstances, do they munch, and munch, 
and munch like any sailor's wife at her chestnuts, and consider 
the prandial enjoyment far greater than when they are snugly 
ensconced at home, with their legs tucked under choice 
mahogany, and a proper complement of forks and glasses to 
each feeder. There certainly is a great mania for peculiarities 
of this order. We happened to find ourselves at Ryde last 
summer, and were not a little astonished to find that " quadrilles 
at 9 " were perpetrated on board the Commodore's yacht, * The 
Brilliant,' riding at anchor in the calm waters of the Solent. 
Ryde has a pier of no inconsiderable length- and it puzzled us 
to know how ladies in full dress could be transported from their 
peaceful habitations to the aforesaid yacht, and we were 
curious to know the effect of the Terpsichorean exercise 
combined with the gentle, heaving motion of a boat riding at 
anchor. A little observation revealed to us that the ladies 
proceeded to the pier end in bath-chairs, and were taken by 
instalments in small boats to the place of meeting. Now a soir(^e 
dansante in a heaving house might be all very well with those 
accustomed to the " rolling wave," but with fair ladies, whose 
health generally failed them on leaving the shore, it would 
naturally be very ill ; and when we heard of some of the belles 
turning qualmish before the yacht, was gained, wishing the 
Solent, the gondoliers, the moonlight, and all the romantic 



LEEDS TOWN HALL. , 229 

concomitancies at Halifax, New York, Jericho, Bath, Old Boots, 
or any other place of fashionable resort to which disagreeable 
people and things are often mentally (and verbally) consigned, 
and of their being in a downright state of indisposition when 
they got on board, we must say we were not at all surprised. 
Such of our readers as are not acquainted with the internal 
economy of an organ will begin to think that a " swell -box " is 
a sort of slang term for a construction (such as a yacht) likely 
to be affected by the undulating character of the ocean, and 
that we are about to report terrible cases and harrowing cases of 
sea sickness (st sic omnes). No such thing. The pipes belonging 
to the upper row of keys (in organs with two or three manuals) 
are enclosed in a box, and the pipes in the aggregate, or even 
the manual are called the " swell," because the box has Venetian 
shutters in front, which are opened by the pressure of a pedal 
spring, the most gradual crescendo being thereby produced. 
This box in the magnificent organ now in course of construction 
by Messrs. Gray and Davison for the Leeds Town Hall is 
naturally of very large dimensions, and it was determined by 
the designers and builders to hold a dinner therein. This novel 
entertainment, almost as eccentric in. its way as the sunbuggy, 
field-mousy, watery-wagtailish recreation afore-mentioned, or 
the qualm-provoking festival subsequently commented upon, 
came off on the 13th ult, when a dozen hungry celebrities 
assembled at 370, Euston Road, to discuss a genuine mahogany 
dinner. The table was not of mahogany, it is true, but we mean 
that the meal was of that complete and comfortable character 
to which we have already referred in contrast with the peculiar 
incompleteness and discomfort of " pic-nic " arrangements. 
^* Success to the Leeds Town Hall Organ," and the healths of 
Messrs. Smart and Spark (the designers of the instrument), and 
the eminent builders was drunk with enthusiasm. Messrs. 
Smart and Spark were present, and two or three gentlemen 
came from Leeds expressly to assist at the solennite. The 
** swell-box " by no means presented the bare appearance that 
such pipe-cages generally wear. It was gaily decorated with 
Union Jacks and other banners, with devices regal, patriotic, or 
eccentric. One little flag in particular caused c^chinnation, and 
thereby promoted digestion. It bore the figure of a lion, and 
was the most fabulous depictment of the king of beasts that 
we ever gazed upon. The Leeds Corporation arms occupied a 
conspicuous position, and they are funny enough. An owl 
rampant, surmounting the shield, an owl rampant on the dexter 
side, and a third owl, likewise rampant, on the sinister (the 



230 .ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

latter twain looking desperately knowing). The only remaining 
portion of the device we can call to mind was a sheep defunct, 
suspended, emblematic, we imagine, of hung mutton, which is a 
fine thing, and in which every Corporation delighteth. Touching 
the decoration of the interior of this novel dining-room, some 
one happened to remark that it resembled a ship's cabin, upon 
which Mr. George Cooper (of St. Sepulchre's, St. Paul's, and 
the Chapel Royal) said, * Of course, it's going to be a C organ.* 
With this ready and legitimate joke we must close our notice of 
the * Dinner in a Swell-Box.' " 

And here it may not be uninteresting to many to quote from 
my " Life of Henry Smart " : — " Shortly after the Town Hall 
organ was finished it was subject to much criticism, and the 
late eccentric Jeremiah Rogers, the well-known organist of 
Doncaster Parish Church, once caused much amusement to 
Smart and others by saying of the twenty-six magnificent 
reed stops in the instrument, * Oh, yes ! No doubt there 
were a few good reeds, but these reeds were altogether 
vulgar ! ' This singular expression from one who not long 
before boasted (as well he might) of the beauty of the reeds in 
the organ — the united work of the younger Harris and Byfield 
— which was the glory of the old Parish Church of Doncaster 
before destroyed by fire, elicited from Smart, or some person to 
whom he related the conversation, the following nonsensical 
rhymes, which appeared in The Ahisical World: — 

There was a Great Organ at Leeds, 

Which was famed for its high-pressure reeds, 

Gray and Davison's praises. 

The awful -clyde blazes. 
Loudest spoken of high-pressure reeds. 

These reeds in the side of old Rogers 
(Most artful of all artful dodgers) 

Were a terrible thorn, 

But he laughed them to scorn, 
Saying, ** Reeds are quite vulgar," old Rogers. 

His ideas soon put into train, 

Trying how he might good reeds obtain ; 

But our organist. Spark, 

Cries, hitting the mark, 
* Your grapes still quite sour remain.'" 

But here we are, the organ and I, alive, well, and in good 
working order, after a partnership of 34 years ; and I can 
assure those who are still unkind and unappreciative, that 
the charm and delight 1 have experienced from playing to 
numerous great composers and organists, as well as my 
performances (nearly two thousand) of over ten thousand pieces^ 



BOLTON ABBEY CHURCH 23 I 

have more than compensated me for the naughty ill-feeling to 
which I have been so long subjected, and which, I am now 
pleased to say has, at least, considerably abated. 



No. 12. — Bolton Abbey Church. 

The delicious seclusion and repose which are the great 
characteristics of Bolton generally, culminate in a visit to the 
interior of Bolton Priory, where the quiet, cool stillness of the 
church impress the wayfarer with feelings of solemnity and 
reverence. Whitaker compares the situation to that of Tintern, 
— but Tintern Abbey and its surroundings fall far short, in my 
humble opinion, of Bolton, where the ruins of former grandeur, 
strength, and beauty, stand on a patch of open ground, round 
which the Wharfs curves after emerging from the narrow 
wooded glen between the Abbey and Barden Tower. " Much 
wood," says Murray — " chiefly large oak and ash trees — clusters 
about the ruins and the river bank ; and across the VVharfe, 
immediately opposite the church, rises a steep rock, painted by 
Turner, of the richest purple. Downward, the stream is 
bordered by quiet green meadows. At the back the valley is 
grandly closed by the hills of Simon Seat and Barden Fell." 

The chief relic of the Priory is the Church, the nave being 
perfect, but the rest of the edifice is in complete ruin. The 
Duke of Devonshire, with the assistance of Craice^ and his 
daughter. Lady Louisa Egerton (who is ever foremost in 
promoting all good works at Bolton), spent a considerable 
amount of money in restoring and beautifying the nave, 
introducing carved oak choir stalls, open oak seats, a handsome 
reredos, renovated Rood Screen^ stone pulpit, lectern and font, etc. 

It is recorded that at the end of the nave aisle, enclosed by 
a Perp. screen, is a chantry founded by the Mauleverers, and 
below it the vault in which, according to tradition, the 
Claphams of Beamsley, and their ancestors the Mauleverers. 
were interred upright, and of which Wordsworth, in his White 
Doe of Rylstone, writes : — 



( ( 



Pass, pass who will yon chantry door. 

And through the chink in the fractured floor 

Look down, and see a grisly sight ; 

A vault where the bodies are buried upright ! 

There face by face and hand by hand 

The Claphams and Mauleverers stand ; 



232 ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 

And in his place among son and sire 

Is John de Clapham, that fierce Esquire, 

A valiant man, and a name of dread 

In the ruthless wars of the White and Red ; 

Who draggd Earl Pembroke from Banbury Church, 

And smote off his head on the stones of the porch.*' 

Over this historically strange corner, a New Organ was 
erected a few years ago to the memory of one of the Duke of 
Devonshire's favourite and universally respected stewards, 
Mr. Cottingham, of Chatsworth, the cost being subscribed for 
by the Rector, Wardens, and tenants on the estate. The 
instrument was built from my specification by John Laycock, 
of West Closes, Cross Hills, near Skipton (where the business is 
still carried on by his son and a partner, under the style of 
Laycock and Bannister), and is a remarkably sweet-toned, 
effective, well-made organ, consisting of two complete manuals 
(great and swell), about 20 stops and couplers, and a separate 
pedale. 

During its construction I made two or three visits to the 
interesting little "factory'* of the builder, situated in a secluded, 
romantic spot on the top of a hill where a windmill supplies the 
place of an engine, or other motive power, for driving the 
various useful parts of the machinery, sawing, planing, etc. 

" Old Johnny Laycock," as he was familiarly called, was a 
character, and a very good character, too. Like Richard 
Penlake, "he was a cheerful man, cheerful, and frank, and free," 
and his chief delight was in building and talking about organs. 
Especially gratified was he to visit Leeds Town Hall occasionally 
on Tuesday afternoons, listen to the wondrous tones of our 
grand organ, carefully inspect the inside of the instrument, and 
make his own honest-spoken comments thereon — generally those 
of approval and admiration. 

Originally, "Old Johnny" was a hand-loom weaver, but having 
a love for organs from his youth, he bought an old instrument 
in 1 83 1, and proceeded to dissect, and ultimately rebuild it. 
He then joined his brother and uncle who were wheelwrights, 
there learning much practical work, which he afterwards found 
to be most useful in his business. Like the great Schultze, he 
was particular as to the quality of well-seasoned timber for his 
pipes (generally Californian red wood), and New Zealand pine 
for his cases. The metal he used was made of the same quality 
(so far as he knew) as that employed by Cavaill^-Coll, of 
Paris. The Bolton Abbey organ is a model of neat and careful 
workmanship, both, as regards voicing, touch, and general 
handicraft. This really genuine G.O.M. died September 13th, 



BOLTON ABBEV CHURCH 



BdIioh Abbey Chutch Orgi 



234 



ORGANS AND ORGANISTS OF THE NORTH. 



1889, at the patriarchal age of 81, highly esteemed by all who 
knew him. 

On the day I had the great pleasure to " open," or inaugurate^ 
the new organ* in August, 1880, there were great " stirrings " 
among the inhabitants of Bolton, Beamsley, Addingham, 
Burnsall, and the neighbouring hamlets, who took a deep 
interest in the musical services of the day, including my 
recital of suitable selections in the afternoon. The Rev. Mr. 
Cottingham, brother of the deceased steward, preached in the 
morning, and Dr. Gott (then Vicar of Leeds, now Bishop of 
Truro) in the evening, forcibly and appropriately. The vocal 
portions were directed by the clever organist ot the church, 
Miss Petyt (now Mrs. Usher), and her brother, Mr Josh. Petyt. 

The Duke of Devonshire (contrary to his usual custom of 
attending church only once a day) was present at each service, 
and so were his only daughter, Lady Louisa Egerton, Lord 
Hartington (now the Duke), Lord and Lady Fredk. Cavendish 
(the noble, brave, patriotic, murdered Lord Cavendish), Lord 
and Lady Edward Cavendish, etc. It was indeed a red-letter 
day with me, and I never remember to have had a more 
pleasant or successful organ opening in my long experience 
of such functions. 

It was my privilege to be the guest for a few days of that 
grand old clergyman, Mr. Bellairs, the Rector, whose loss has 
been felt ever since he left Bolton for another living ; and I had 
the honour of lunching and dining on the interesting occasion 
with the Duke and his family at '* The Hall," when the merits 
of the organ were duly discussed and commended. 



Great Organ. — CC to G. — 56 Notes. 



1. BouKdon (wood) 

2. Open Diapason (metal) 

3. Claribella (wood) 

4. Harmtmique flute (metal) 

5. Principal (metal) 



Ft. Pipes. 
16 56 



8 
8 

4 
4 



56 
56 
56 
56 



Pt. Pipes. 

6. Twelfth (metal) 2§ 56 

7. Fifteenth (metal) ... 7 56 

8. Mixture (metal) various 3ranks 168 

9. Trumpet (metal) ... 8 56 



Swell Organ — CC to G.— 56 Notes. 



Ft. Pipes. 

1. Bourdon (wocd) 16 56 

2. Open Diapason (metal) 8 56 

3. Salcional (wood and metal) 8 56 

4. Viol d'amour (wood and 

metal) ... ... .. 8 56 

5. Gedact (wood) 8 56 



Ft. Pipes. 

6. Octave (wood) 8 56 

7. Flauto traverso (metal) 2 56 

8. Mixture (metal) various 3 ranks 168 

9. Horn (metal) ... ... 8 56 

10. Oboe (metal) 8 50 

11. Tremulant 



BOLTON ABBEY CHURCH. 



235 



Choir Organ— CC to G. — 56 Notes. 



Ft. Pipes. 

1. Dulciana (metal) ... 8 56 

2. Viol di Gamba (wood and 

metal ... ... ... 8 5^ 



3. Gedact (wood) ... 

4. Saube Flute (metal) 

5. Clarionet (metal) 



Ft. Pipes. 
8 56 
4 56 
8 44 



Pedal Organ.— CCC to F.— 30 Notes. 
I. Grand Open Diapason (wood) 16 ft. 3. Gedact (wood) 



2. Bourdon (wood) 



16 ft. 



4. Principal (wood) 



8ft. 
8ft. 



Couplers. 



1. Swell to Great. 

2. Swell to (jlreat Super Octave. 

3. Swell to Pedals. 



4. Swell to Choir. 

5. Great to Pedals. 

6. Choir to Pedals. 



236 



LEEDS MUSICAL FESTIVALS. 

Alluding to the origin of the Festivals, and to the erection of 
the Town Hall in 1858, the writers and compilers of the 
" History of the Leeds Musical Festivals/^ by " Fred R. Spark 
and Joseph Bennett " (recently published), state " that the best 
available concert-room was the Old Music Hall, in Albion 
Street — capable of seating about 800 persons. There, from 
time to time, concerts were given in aid of the Leeds Infirmary ; 
some of the performances being, all circumstances considered, 
of an ambitious kind. Obviously, however, nothing could be 
done on a Festival scale, and nothing was attempted. Years 
went or, and at length Leeds resolved upon the erection of a 
Town Hall which should be worthy of the borough's growing 
importance. It is interesting to note that, in view of the 
ceremonial opening of the new building, the suggestion of a 
Musical Festival originated^ not, as might have been expected^ with 
the amateurs of the town^ but with the Corporation Com^mittee 
(who may, indeed, have been amateurs to a man), specially 
charged with oversight of all matters connected with the then 
nearly completed edifice. The suggestion, it is true, came 
rather late, but was so eagerly taken up, and so promptly acted 
upon, that no inconvenience resulted. As a first step, the 
Mayor (Alderman Peter Fairbairn) called a town's meeting for 
March nth, 1858, in the Old Court House, Park Row — since 
converted into a Post Office." 

There's a suppressio veri here which is not very creditable to 
the Editors — both of whom had carefully read and kindly 
reviewed my '* Life of Smart " (1881), and from which I extract 
the following facts : — 

"In 1855, at the time the Leeds People's Concerts, given 
on Saturday evenings, were so crowded out in the Old Music 
Hall (the only room — holding rather less than eight hundred 
persons — then available for concerts and other meetings in 
Leeds), Henry Smart paid a visit to me, and I mentioned to 
him the evident necessity, and my own great wish for the 
erection of a large new hall, which should have a grand organ 



LEEDS MUSICAL FESTIVALS. 237 

possessing all the requirements for mass meetings, musical 
festivals, etc. To use a familiar phrase, he "jumped at the 
idea/' and said with enthusiasm, " My dear friend, go in for it 
with all youi; heart and soul, and you may rely on it, as far 
as the organ is concerned, I will help you to get the finest 
instrument yet erected in this country." All this was easily 
said, but who could imagine that out of these few words 
ultimately rose up the magnificent Town Hall of Leeds, and 
its glorious organ ! But so it was. I lost no time in getting 
a meeting of the leading inhabitants in the Old Court House,, 
at which the late Mr. Darnton Lupton, and others, strongly 
recommended the formation of a company for the purpose 
of building a new public hall. The matter, however, was 
not supported so warmly as was expected, and the late 
Borough Treasurer, Mr. Hepper, who was then an influential 
alderman of the Leeds Town Council, took up the question,, 
and so successfully plied it at the Corporation meetings, that 
the sums of money, starting with ;^20,ooo, and ending probably 
with ;^i 50,000, were ultimately voted, and our much desired 
object was partly accomplished. 

As only one instance out of a number that could be adduced^ 
in which the public appetite for a new hall was frequently 
sharpened in the Leeds newspapers (there being at that time 
only three, each published but once a week), the following 
letter will be of sufficient interest, especially to Leeds people, to 
warrant its insertion here— and to the concluding paragraph of 
which I desire to draw especial attention : — 

Jenny Lind at Leeds. 

(To the Editors of the " Leeds Mercury.^') 

Gentlemen, — A paragraph having appeared in our local 
papers intimating that Madame Jenny Goldschmidt was shortly 
about to giwQ a concert in Leeds, and considerable interest 
having, in consequence, been evinced in our town and neighbour- 
hood at the probable visit of the world's most famous singer, I 
ask permission to state through your columns the fact that the 
arrangements, which had been concluded with Madame Gold- 
schmidt to sing in Leeds, have been unavoidably abandoned. 

Last Thursday week. Mr. Mitchell (under whose management 
all the Lind Concerts have been given since her present stay in 
England) came to confer with myself on Madame Goldschmidt's 
visit, and it was fixed, after a consultation with Mr. Hopkinson, 
that a concert should be given in our Music Hall, on Monday, 
April 7th. 



238 LEEDS MUSICAL FESTIVALS. 

We personally applied for the room for that day, and under- 
stood from one of the clerks that it was disengaged. 

In the evening of the same day I was astounded by the 
receipt of the iollowing note from Mr. Ainley, the agent to the 
Music Hall Proprietors : — 

" Leeds, 21st Feb., 1856. 
" Dear Sir, — I understand that you have called in my 
absence to engage the Music Hall for a concert by Jenny Lind. 
I, however, must now inform you that if Jenny Lind comes 
to the Leeds Music Hall to perform she must come through 
Messrs. Clapham and Co., as I am under agreement with 
them not to let the room for any performance by Jenny Lind, 
except through them. I lose no time in giving you this 
information, in order that you may be cautious in carrying out 
any arrangement for her coming to Leeds. 

I am, yours truly, 
" Mr. Spark. " J NO. AiNLEY.'' 

I was unwilling at first to believe that this note could mean 
anything but a hoax, but I found, on application to Messrs. 
Ainley and Clapham, that such an agreement did exist, and 
that the hall could not be taken for the occasion except 
" through Mr, Clapham " (the lessee of the Leeds Royal 
Gardens), who required £^\^ as a bonus to give up his claim 
to the room. 

A very few words v/ill explain how " Messrs. Clapham & Co.'* 
obtained the power of precluding the public of Leeds from 
hearing the Swedish Nightingale without bribing them to 
relinquish a claim, the nature of which I will not trust myself 
to characterise. 

It appears that Mr. Clapham proposed to speculate on 
Madame Goldschmidt's performance in Leeds, but discovered 
that Mr. Mitchell, to whom all the arrangements for these 
concerts are confided, had decided, and very properly, that 
they should not be made a matter of traffic, but in all instances 
that he would make the engagements direct. 

Foiled in this direction, Mr. Clapham, aided by the 
representative of the proprietors of the Music Hall, adopted the 
course of securing the room for any appearance of Jenny Lind 
during the year, and thus raising a presumptive claim to a 
handsome compensation if he should forego it. He made an 
agreement with Mr. Ainley to give ;£30 for the hall for any 
concert in which Madame Goldschmidt might perform ; and 
that it should not be let to any other parties for the same 



LEEDS MUSICAL FESTIVALS. 239 

purpose, with the alternative that he would give the usual rent, 
jPfi, whether she appeared or not. 

On what principle of fairness such a concession of the right to 
exclude the inhabitants of Leeds from its largest public room, 
could be made, I am at a loss to conjecture. The result is that, 
for the present, we have no prospect of enjoying the high 
gratification of hearing again this Queen of bong in Leeds — for 
Mr. Mitchell very properly refuses to bribe Mr. Clapham to 
forego his claim, or enter into any engagement for indemnifying 
the proprietors against any possible consequences that might 
result from violating the monopoly which, it is alleged, has 
been given to Mr. Clapham. 

It is, perhaps, too delicate a topic to expatiate upon, but I 
mav at least allude to the fact that the great Swedish vocalist, 
to her honour be it said, has seldom quitted a town without 
leaving tokens of her charity, perhaps even more lasting than 
those made by her most tuneful strains. 

I do hope that it may yet be possible to obtain Madame 
Goldschmidt's services, and if the obstacle with regard to the 
Music Hall be removed, I apprehend it would yet be 
practicable. 

I will not add one word of comment to the above " plain, 
unvarnished tale," but leave it to the verdict of the mustc-loving 
public of Leeds, to consider whether it does not prove that it is 
high time we should have a hall adequate to the wants of the 
town, and under a management responsible to the townspeople 
themselves. — I am, Gentlemen, your obedient servant, 

Wm. Spark. 

II, Park Square, 

Leeds, March 3rd, 1856, 

Difficult as it proved, even to the persevering Alderman 
Hepper, to obtain the sums required for the building of the 
structure which the genius of Cuthbert Broderick had designed, 
it was found to be a still tougher business to get a generally 
unmusical Town Council to spend ;^ 5,000 in the erection of an 
organ to place therein. Smart and I had, however, set our 
minds on it, though we were stoutly opposed by both amateur 
and professional " organ fanciers." Fortunately we had several 
influential friends in the Corporation who were equally resolved 
that, as far as they could secure it, we should at least have fair 
play. The Mayor (Mr. John Hope Shaw), Aldermen George, 
Kelsall, Botterill, and Kitson, Councillors Addyman, Carter 
(afterwards M.P. for Leeds), and Eagland, etc. (especially the 



240 LEEDS MUSICAL FESTIVALS. 

latter), took a deep interest in " the organ question," and a sub- 
committee having been appointed, a prize of ;£^iSO was offered 
for the best set of plans and working drazvings of an organ suit- 
able for the hall. 

Smart and myself had been engaged for many months 
previously in designing an organ, and there was nothing that he 
desired more than to have his working drawings submitted to 
the eyes of competent authority, and to be compared with any 
others that might be sent in. The organists and their friends, 
all of whom had their peculiar notions, combated the idea of 
professional gentlemen being able or willing to furnish " working 
drawings." They got up a lively correspondence in the papers, 
but never produced any " working drawings ! " One amateur 
wrote to the papers to say that " the employment of professional 
men in the construction of organs is not only perfectly 
unnecessary, but undesirable ; in fact, their interference in such 
matters may be looked upon as little else than an impertinent 
reflection upon the efficiency of the organ-builder, and, indeed, 
most professional men are too careful of their reputation and 
honour to compromise themselves by interfering where the 
motives are so liable to misconstruction." At the very time this 
was written, Smart had prepared a set of plans and drawings 
which have since been pronounced by Cavaille, and other 
eminent builders, to be equal, if not superior, to any similar 
work they had ever seen ! 

In a subsequent chapter Smart's skill as an engineer and a 
draughtsman will be specially pointed out and explained. 
Another letter which appeared in the Leeds Intelligencer^ 
February 7th, 1857, will show the feeling that prevailed at the 
time : — 

The Town Hall Organ. 

(To the Editor of the ^^ Intelligencer!^) 

Sir, — The advertisement issued by the Town Hall Com- 
mittee for plans and working drawings of an organ, was a 
novelty, and would necessarily deprive the Council of all aid 
from musicians of the highest celebrity, and confine the subject 
to the organ manufacturer exclusively. 

It was framed, perhaps, merely in conformity with a 
prescribed form of advertisement where corporation contracts 
are concerned. At any rate, the members of Council should be 
informed that eminent musicians do not furnish working 
drawings of the instruments on which they perform^ and to ask 
such parties for anything of the kind is to ignore their taste and 



LEEDS MUSICAL FESTIVALS. 24 1 

judgment in matters where they could give information of the 
greatest importance. 

The advertisement, sir, had very much the appearance 
of having been worded in conformity with the views of a 
gentleman of this neighbourhood, who lately addressed a 
letter to the Mercury on the organ subject, and who, it is said, 
would not be displeased to guide the Council in their decision 
about their organ. I enclose you a letter which I have received 
from Dr. S. S. Wesley, and am, sir, yours obediently, 

Leeds. F. G. S. 

Dr. Wesley's letter was a defence of his scheme of the great 
Liverpool organ. 

Many sets of plans were sent in from organ-builders, all of 
which were minutely examined by the sub-committee (Messrs. 
Kitson and Eagland), aided by an experienced, disinterested 
organ-builder, and the result was the award of the prize of £i\^o 
for the best plans to Messrs. Smart and Spark. 

The next thing was the all-important one of the builder. 

The specification contained every detail, from the scales, weight 
and character of metal and wood, voicing, wind pressures, size 
of sound-boards, position of the* registers, pedals, etc., down to 
the springs, wires, buttons, etc. There was nothing left un- 
touched — nothing omitted or forgotten. Smart's soul was in 
the work ; he knew his power, he fulfilled his mission, and all 
that pertained to his share of the work was thoroughly and 
conscientiously done. 

Several builders tendered, and, after careful consideration, the 
contract was let to Messrs. Gray and Davison, who in their 
turn were fiercely assailed and objected to in the papers by the 
friends of other organ factors. 

The Town Council having appointed Smart and myself to 
superintend the building of the organ, we were frequently 
together' at Messrs. Gray and Davison's large factory in the 
Euston Road, London, in 1857-8, watching with deep interest 
the progress of every portion of the work. Indeed, Smart was 
incessant in his visits and in making experiments, suggestions, 
and trials, both with regard to the mechanism— much of which 
was very complicated — and the tone of various pipes. 

It is true that many of his experiments were of rather an 
expensive character, as the builders found out ; but his 
combined faith, enthusiasm, and determination overcame most 
difficulties, and when he was successful, his satisfaction and 
pleasure were expressed with genuine delight. When a goodly 

Q 



242 LEEDS MUSICAL FESTIVALS. 

portion of the organ was ready, and curiosity was rife in Leeds 
as to the best mode of inaugurating the new Town Hall and 
the instrument, I submitted a letter to Smart, who heartily 
approved of the contents, which duly appeared in the local 
newspapers, and from which the following extract may here be 
made : — 

" And now, gentlemen, I wish most respectfully to ask our 
spirited Mayor, the members of the Corporation, and the 
inhabitants generally, whether they intend to have their 
magnificent Town Hall and Organ opened with the enthusiasm 
and rejoicing which can alone find appropriate expression 
in a Grand Musical Festival, on a scale worthy of the 
metropolis of the West-Riding, of the commercial eminence of 
our town, and its taste and patronage of music ? I believe it 
only needs initiation to enlist universal sympathy and co- 
operation ; but the necessary preparations should be commenced 
without delay, or it will be utterly impossible to assemble all 
the necessary elements of success. We must not trust to the 
' chapter of accidents ' for befriending us on such an occasion ; 
we must be up and doing, with the zeal of lovers of divine music, 
and the promptitude and forethought of men of business. 

" Although, in such a case, we can obviously command success 
by spirited and united action, I may remind my fellow-towns- 
men, that with scarcely a single exception, all first musical 
festivals at the opening of large halls in this and other countries, 
have been most successful in a pecuniary point of view. I do 
not, therefore, for a moment anticipate that one single farthing 
of the necessary guarantee fund will ever be required from those 
who may become subscribers. 

" The Birmingham Hospital is almost entirely supported by 
the profits of the triennial Musical Festivals in that town ! 
Surely Leeds can show herself equally able to aid similar 
noble charities through the agency of musical gatherings. 

" Having obtained statistical information of the cost and 
expenditure of nearly all the great festivals in England, — it 
will be my pride and delight as a townsman to place it at the 
disposal of any Committee that may be appointed to take the 
matter into consideration. . As a professional man, I do not 
wish to undertake any work which may not be considered 
indispensable for the realisation of the whole scheme. 

" The Town Hall exists as an embodied answer to the 
demand for means of doing justice to the musical taste 
earnestly craving gratification among all classes in Leeds ; and 
if these facts and suggestions help to accelerate action in the 



LEEDS MUSICAL FESTIVALS. 243 

musical inauguration of this magnificent edifice and its noble 
organ, no one will rejoice more heartily than, gentlemen, your 
most obedient servant, " Wm. Spark/' 

The Mayor (Alderman James Kitson) took the matter up 
with admirable spirit and earnestness — the result being a 
splendid Musical Festival, of which, however, more hereafter in 
its proper place. 

Conductor for the First Festival. 

When the question of a Conductor came to the front, many 
of my friends on the committee, knowing how successful I had 
been with the Music Hall Concerts, especially in conducting 
Oratorios, etc., with full band, eminent principals, and my own 
carefully trained chorus, expressed a wish that, in pursuance of 
the time-honoured plan adopted at the meetings of the Three 
Choirs Festivals — Worcester, Gloucester, and Hereford — I 
should, as the originator of the Leeds Festival, become its first 
Conductor. Feeling sure that such a course would raise a storm 
of ill-feeling and opposition, I positively declined to be 
" nominated,'* and strongly recommended Professor Sterndale 
Bennett to Mr. James Kitson, Chairman of the Executive 
Committee ; and, having written to the former explaining my 
wishes and position in the matter, I received the following 
letter : — 

15, Russell Place, Fitzroy Square, 

London, W., March loth, 1858, 

My Dear Sir, — I have only a few minutes to thank you 
for your note of this morning. You are certainly a most 
unselfish person, and I am extremely grateful for your good 
opinion. 

Of course, it would greatly delight me to have the conduct 
of the proposed Festival at Leeds. 

My competitors are strong men, without doubt, but might 
not my claims as a Yorkshireman (other things being equal) 
be something for me ? With regard to terms — although I 
should be unwilling to gain the contract from sending in the 
lowest estimate, still I would most willingly consider the money 
matter as the minor matter. 

I think I could, if desirable, obtain considerable support in 
your neighbourhood, if you will kindly let me know how things 
go on from time to time. 

Ever believe me, my dear Sir, 

Yours very faithfully, 

William Sterndale Bennett. 

Wm. Spark, Esq., Leeds. 



244 LEEDS MUSICAL FESTIVALS. 

Beyond re-echoing the oft-told tale that the first Leeds 
Musical Festival in 1858 was a magnificent success both 
musically, socially, and pecuniarily, 1 need not here deal further 
with the subject, but go on to the 

Proposed Musical Festival in 1861. 

Beyond recommending some excellent, well-tried vocalists 
for the Chorus, I had nothing whatever to do with what the 
" History " calls " resultant squabbles " between the two leading 
choral associations (the Madrigal and Motet Society and the 
Choral Society), the failure in carrying on the 1861 Festival 
being almost wholly due to the differences which arose between 
the Sub-Executive Committee and Mr. Burton, as to the forma- 
tion and direction of the Chorus. Two accomplished members 
of that committee, Mr. Charles E. Wurtzburg and Mr. Ed. 
Oswald Dykes, are living witnesses to the truth of my assertion. 
Unfortunately, these influential amateurs removed from Leeds 
some years ago ; otherwise their presence on the Executive 
Committee of the last three Musical Festivals would have 
changed the complexion of affairs altogether — at least so far as 
I was personally concerned. 

To what good end, then, the writers of the " History '' should 
devote no less than sixteen pages to a detailed account of 
the " squabbles " between the rival Societies {not their 
cbnductors, be it noted), no one but the authors can see, 
and it is indeed sad to know that so much trouble should have 
been taken to chronicle events of over thirty years ago which all 
right-thinking Leeds citizens, etc., would willingly have allowed 
to rest in the dim past of nearly forgotten musical disagreeables 
in Leeds. Valeat quantum valere potest. 

The Second Musical Festival in 1874. 

Says the " History '* : — "After the fiasco of 1861, no further 
attempt was made to continue the Musical Festivals till twelve 
years had passed away." Exactly so. Who, however, was the 
sole cause and means of resuscitating theni ? The suppressio 
veri here is almost more discreditable than it was in or re 
the First Musical Festival. 

The facts are these : — Although during these twelve years 
I was overwhelmed with professional engagements, conducting 
frequently recurring performances for the Town Hall Concert 
Society, etc., giving bi-weekly organ recitals, besides under- 
taking lectures and numerous pupils, composing for and editing 
The Organists* Quarterly Journal^ The Practical Choir Master^ 



LEEDS MUSICAL FESTIVALS. 245 

Batiste's Organ Works, etc., etc., 1 found time to take steps for 
the revivication and resurrection of the long dormant Festivals. 
Determining not to appear personally on the scene until my 
private preliminary suggestions and dispositicns had either 
succeeded or failed, I secured the services of Mr. Henry Sales, 
who was then the Secretary and Lecturer of the Yorkshire Union 
of Mechanics' Institutes, and gave him a written undertaking to 
pay all expenses for two months while he tried to get together 
a provisional committee, and secure the valuable aid and support 
of the Mayor (Alderman Marsden), one of the most liberal, 
public-spirited, kind-hearted chief magistrates Leeds has ever 
had. In the meantime, when the ice was broken, I followed in 
the wake of Mr. Sales and obtained promiscuous conversations 
on the project with his Worship, the Town Clerk, and the 
suggested Committee ; the ultimate outcome being that the 
Mayor convened a general meeting of gentlemen of light and 
leading in the town, from which Committees were formed, a 
large Guarantee Fund secured, and the Second Leeds Musical 
Festival was thus assured and established. No one knew these 
important facts better than the present indefatigable Hon. 
Secretary, and yet they are altogether ignored ! 

Being pretty well sick and tired of the injustice which 
has so often been done to me (as I have shown) in connection 
with the Leeds Musical Festivals, I will nov/ content myself 
with quoting one only of the numerous letters and pamphlets 
(especially those so cleverly written by " Musicus," of which I 
am not the author, though often accused thereof), and from 
which the Guarantors, Subscribers to the Concerts, and the 
public generally, can draw their own conclusions. 

Leeds Musical Festival. 

(To the Editors of the " Leeds Mercury!') 

Gentlemen, — In your issue of yesterday I read that 
Mr. Alfred Benton had been appointed organist of the Leeds 
Musical Festival, in the place of our good old friend. Dr. Spark, 
who, as every long resident of Leeds knows, has done more for 
the art of music in the North of England, in Scotland, and in 
Wales, than all the lot of other so-called " Leeds artists " 
put together. 

Is there nobody who will try to get Dr. Spark a hearing ? I 
believe that he would delight the guarantors, the subscribers, 
and the public generally, if they would give him a chance. 
But his enemies are too many for him, and, plucky as he is, he 



246 LEEDS MUSICAL FESTIVALS. 

cannot, as the Scripture phrase goes, " kick against the pricks." 
He is unable to fight fifty of the Committee, when three or four 
of the most influential members of that Committee seem 
determined to prevent him holding the position of organist to 
the Festival. 

Why not ask the worthy Doctor to produce a composition, 
however short ? Why should outsiders get all the benefit from 
the Leeds Festival once in three years, and one who has worked 
hard for nearly forty years to be excluded ? Then why do not 
the Leeds Musical Festival Committee answer the brochure of 
" Musicus ? " Some persons think Dr. Spark wrote it I do 
not. If he is the author, he is certainly a very clever writer, 
and ought to be respected. 

There is the more reason in what I suggest if it be the case, 
as I believe, that Dr. Spark was the originator of the Leeds 
Musical Festivals. 

Yours, etc., 

W. J. Hessk. 

The Leeds Musical Festival. 

(To the Editors of the ''''Leeds Mercury") 

Gentlemen, — Will you permit me to make some observa- 
tions on Mr. W. J. Hesse's letter which appeared in your issue 
of the 29th ult., and which I never saw or heard of until my 
attention was drawn to it a day or two since ? 

While thanking Mr. Hesse and numerous other friends and 
correspondents for the very kind and commendable remarks in 
regard to the unfriendliness of the Leeds Musical Festival 
Committee towards myself, both as an organist and composer, 
I must ask them (though it may seem somewhat ungrateful) not 
to interest or trouble themselves further in the smallest degree' 
about this business, which has been bad enough for a long time, 
but is now probably at its worst. 

As my relations with the Festival have been entirely — I 
was going to say cruelly — severed, and the deep interest I took 
in it for many years has been unceremoniously suppressed, 
I may here state one or two facts. 

During the reign of the incomparable conductor. Sir Michael 
Costa, all went smoothly with the organ, and its proper use was 
established in conjunction with the functions of the orchestra, 
chorus, and principal artists. 

He knew what grand effects could be produced from our 
magnificent instrument, whose tones, he always afifirmed, mixed 
better with a band than any other instrument he had ever 



LEEDS MUSICAL FESTIVALS. 247 

known. Those who remember the performance of" The Mount 
of Olives,'' " Solomon," etc., under Costa, will never forget the 
thrilling, overwhelming effects produced in the ensemble and 
finales^ by the quickening power of the combined and unstinted 
employment of the organ, orchestra, and chorus. Tout cela 
change ! 

Under the new conductorship, the organ was relegated to 
the back stairs or the kitchen, degraded from the high distinctive 
position Costa gave to it, and made to sing small. No wonder, 
then, that with my long experience I should feel chagrined and 
disappointed, and become almost indifferent to, and perhaps 
careless, in the discharge of some of my duties. 

It is absurd to think that after this I should desire to act 
again as accompanying organist. No ! certainly not What 
I desired was to compose and play a solo, as I did at the 
inauguration Festival in 1858, and again at subsequent gather- 
ings, so that the subscribers and visitors from a distance (many 
of whom have never heard our organ, excepting for tuning 
purposes) might have for ten or twelve minutes a little deviation 
from the ordinary programme, by hearing to advantage the 
varied tones, effects, and power of the grand instrument in our 
Town Hall in all its glory. I offered to do this, but the 
Committee refused my offer. 

When the leaders of our Musical Festival were floundering 
about for new works by outside authors, I offered to compose a 
new Cantata, or they could have my Motet, " Lord, how long 
wilt Thou look upon this,'' for a double chorus and full orchestra, 
and which takes about twelve minutes in performance. 

The Chairman of the Executive wrote that he was instructed 
by the Committee to say that all my offers were declined ; and 
he believed that the guarantors, subscribers, and the public 
generally, would fully endorse and approve of their action ! 
After this comes the judgment. Emphatically do I deny this 
mendacious statement. We know that when the judgment's 
weak the prejudice is strong ; and I feel sure that if Leeds were 
polled to-morrow, the great bulk of the inhabitants would not 
endorse the Committee's dictum No, gentlemen, it has been a 
personal matter, mostly brought about by calumny and mis- 
representation, and not an artistic question, as it should have been, 
and I think every reasonable person will agree with me that, 
considering all things — the fact that I first suggested in your 
columns the building of the Town Hall and the erection of 
a magnificent organ, and in both of these schemes I was warmly 
supported by the late Sir Edward Baines — I do not think that, 



248 LEEDS MUSICAL FESTIVALS. 

even with my assumed shortcomings (the Musical Festival 
Committee, of course, haven't any), I deserve the treatment I 
have received. I could say much more, but have already 
trespassed too much on your space. — Yours, etc., 

Newton Park, Leeds, May ^tk. Wm. Spark. 



• In connection with the first Leeds Musical Festival, the 
following anecdotes from my *' Life of Smart " (now difficult to 
obtain) may not prove unacceptable to my readers : — 

In l857-5^, during the erection of the Town Hall organ. 
Smart was a frequent visitor to Leeds ; he had then good health 
and spirits, could see tolerably well — in fact, he could see much 
further than many other folks whose visual organs were 
stronger than his own — I mean intellectually and metaphori- 
cally. In the week of the first Musical Festival (which I have 
previously dwelt upon) there were plenty of festivals, dinner 
parties, etc., going on, and I need scarcely say that Smart was a 
welcome guest whenever we could spare time to accept the 
numerous invitations we received as soon as he had got fairly 
installed in my domicile in Park Square, where I then resided 
Wishful that we should have at least one gathering worthy o\ 
the event we were celebrating, I invited to dinner, on the third 
festival day, the best people I could get together, including 
Professor Sterndale and Mrs. Bennett, the Town Clerk ^Mr. 
Ikin), Mr. and Mrs. Dibb, several clergymen, and others. It so 
happened that, on receiving from one of the expected guests an 
excuse at the last moment, I met a young and ardent " Puseyite 
curate" (as they were then called), and as he expressed a strong 
wish to meet Mr. Smart, I asked him if he would supply the 
vacant place at table. This turned out to be a most unfortunate 
mistake, for I had not only forgotten for the moment Smart's 
old antipathy to Ritualism and Gregorianism in almost every 
shape and form, but I actually placed him next to the bold 
young cleric, who, with a great deal of self-importance and 
pertinacity, insisted on contradicting Mr. Smart respecting the 
rightful position, value, and use of Gregorian chants in the 
services of the Church of England ! The guests, who were 
rather quiet and stiff during the early part of the dinner, heard 
the storm brewing ; and when the curate folded his hands 
spirally, saying to the distinguished organist, in rather a loud 
tone of voice, " I am strongly of opinion, Mr. Smart, that there 



LEEDS MUSICAL FESTIVALS. 249 

is a fine ecclesiastical, devotional character with Gregorian tones, 
which no other music possesses, and, therefore, I go in warmly 
for that kind of thing," poor Smart lost his temper entirely. It 
was more than he could stand any longer. So he pushed his 
chair back half a yard, pulled his fine, stalwart frame together, 
and with a significant, dramatic gesture said : " Now, look here ! 
this won't do; who asked your opinion, sir, upon a musical 
question of which you evidently know absolutely nothing ? 
You may rely on it, that some day when you and your friends 
are shouting those ugly Gregorian chants, Heaven will punish 
you, and ram down bags of crotchets upon your heads ^ and prevent 
you from ever singing them again ! " 

After the astonished guests had recovered slightly from their 
surprise, there arose a burst of hearty laughter, and the hitherto 
somewhat cold gathering warmed into the happiest and jolliest 
of evenings. As for the young " Puscyite," he shortly after- 
wards asked the hostess to excuse him — he was " not well," etc. ; 
he slipped away, and was never again heard of from that day to 
this! 



Some of the congregation of a chapel in Leeds, where there is 
supposed to be a fine organ, pressed Smart frequently to go and 
try their ** beautiful instrument," and after some persuasion he 
went. Carefully he played through the flue work, which we 
perceived he didn't like, but when he got to the reeds, he 
uttered a very significant ** bah ! " One of the company said, 
'• Now, Mr. Smart, those are fine reeds, I think ; " whereupon 
the irate organist said, with that little nasal twang he put on 
occasionally when his equilibrium was disturbed : " Fine, 
indeed ! are they ? The only sort of sounds I can liken 'em to, 
is what I have heard in cottages when they're /r;/^^^ sausages T^ 



Apropos of his dislike to Gregoiian chants. Smart used to tell 
a story of an American who had shown one of our own clergy- 
men hospitality and attention in the land of Columbus, and who 
was very properly asked, when he came to this country, to 
return the visit. The Yankee went to the rectory to stay from 
Saturday until Sunday, the good parson having assured him he 
would hear '* the best of music, well done." After the Sunday 
morning service, the musical portion of which was all Gregorian, 
the visitor went back to the rectory and was asked how he liked 
the music. " Some of it," said Jonathan, with his nasal twang, 



250 LEEDS MUSICAL FESTIVALS. 

" some of it is rather tart — no tune much — made by your village 
organist, I guess ! " The rector replied solemnly : ** My dear 
sir, the music we have been singing this morning is thought to 
be by many the purest and the most church-like chants we 
have ; indeed, it is now pretty well ascertained that these 
Gregorian tones are identical with the Hebrew melodies which 
King David himself used to sing and play upon the harp, and 
which have come down to us so wonderfully from generation to 
generation." " Well, now," said the Yankee, " I am very glad 
indeed, sir, to hear this, because it clears up in my mind a little 
difficulty I have experienced in reading the Bible (and this I 
have done from kivver to kivver), as to the real reason why Saul 
threw the javelin at David when he was a trying to soothe his 
royal master of a rayther awkward temper with those ancient 
ditties ! " 



251 



CHOIRS AND ORGANS: 
Their Proper Position in Churches. 

The following remarks on the Position of Choirs and Organs in 
Churches were written for and delivered before the members of 
the Yorkshire Architectural Society, at a general meeting held 
in the Philosophical Hall, Leeds, on Wednesday, May 26th, 
1852; the Rev. Dr. Hook, Vicar of Leeds, in the chair. 

As it is customary for all papers read before the Yorkshire 
Architectural Society to be printed in the annual volume of 
Reports, the Author deems it necessary here to state that the 
present paper is now published, in a separate form, in accordance 
with the strongly-expressed wish of several members of that 
society, amongst whom, may, with permission, be named, the 
Rev. Dr. Sharp, Vicar of Doncaster, the Rev. T. Bayly, Minor 
Canon of York, etc. 

The subject is certainly one of peculiar interest and growing 
importance ; and, so far as the author has been able to 
ascertain, it is not treated in any work to which the inquirer 
may refer for suggestion or guidance. It has, therefore, been 
the design of the author to apply such practical considerations 
to the subject as his experience and investigations dictate, and 
to deduce from these a few practical rules which he hopes may 
prove serviceable to those interested in the position occupied by 
choirs and organs. 

One point of great importance, — the system of organ building, 
is, though only cursorily, touched upon in the following brochure. 
Few organists, and still fewer clergymen and churchwardens, 
are practically acquainted with any branch of organ building, so 
that, generally, when a new instrument is to be erected, the 
matter is left entirely in the hands of the organ builder, who, if 
a mere mechanic, and only ambitious to push his trade by the 
production of a '* cheap article," employs very inferior material 
— especially in the metal department — so that the instrument 
mis-named an organ, proves to be a mere *'box of whistles," 
— instead of improving in tone with age, as it ought, it 



252 CHOIRS AND ORGANS : 

degenerates both in tone and structure, and in a few years is 
utterly worthless. 

It is greatly to be regretted that there is no standard work on 
oi^an building, in the English language. France and Germany 
have both produced works on the history and science of organ 
building, which are of the utmost service, not only to organ 
builders, but to organists, and all who are interested in the 
progressive improvement of the king of instruments. The 
great changes which have been effected in organ building in this 
country within the last fifteen years — especially the almost 
universal adoption of the C, instead of the old and indefensible 
G organs — are such as ought to be thoroughly explained and 
illustrated by some gentleman who combines the qualifications 
of a sound practical organist and a good mechanic, and who is 
also well acquainted with acoustics, besides possessing a 
cultivated musical taste. 

Returning from this collateral, though highly important, topic 
to that to which the following pages especially refer, the author 
ventures to express a hope that the time is past when an 
architect will presume to design an ecclesiastical edifice, oblivious 
of the fact that an organ now forms an indispensable part of the 
fittings of every church, and must be so placed that it may be 
heard, and that it may most appropriately fulfil its ancillary 
office in the various services. 

If he shall, in any mea-^ure, be the humble instrument of 
directing the clergy, organists, architects, and others concerned 
in determining the proper position of organs and choirs, to 
consider the question from the practical point of view which he 
has ventured to take, and thereby prevent such fatal mistakes 
as are subsequently indicated, the author will be abundantly 
repaid for any labour he may have devoted to the elucidation 
of the subject. 



I propose in this paper to consider the various positions 
occupied by choirs and organs in churches, to discuss the 
several reasons which my be adduced in favour of or against 
each locality, existing or possible, and thus to endeavour to 
establish some general principle, by reference to which the 
question may be readily adjusted. 

A taste for vocal harmony, especially that connected with the 
services of our church, is spreading widely in this country ; 
and {by a happy coincidence) concurrently with a revival of 
ancient ecclesiastical architecture. 



THEIR PROPER POSITION IN CHURCHES. 253 

It is generally allowed that a very important part of architec- 
ture is the arrangement and fitting of churches for the service of 
the Church ; and I trust I shall, to some extent, be forwarding 
the settlement of the great question of structural suitability in 
the edifice for the all-important purpose to which it is dedicated, 
if I make a few observations on the position of choirs and 
organs. 

" So many men, so many minds " — and though I may hold 
different opinions on this interesting and important subject from 
many of my hearers, I shall endeavour to make some remarks 
which may be useful to those who wish to place choirs or 
organs in positions different from those which I should choose. 

On the historical part of my subject, — after having waded 
through the pages of many a dusty folio, and the fat quartos of 
the Musical Historians, Burney and Hawkins, — 1 find I can add 
but little to what has already been given by Mr. Jebb in his 
admirable work on the choral service ; and as I shall 
occasionally have to refer to his brief but pregnant remarks, I 
deem it right at the outset to quote them. 

In reference to the position of the choir in churches, Jebb 
remarks — " The proper place was, and still is, the chancel ; 
where, from the instructions of Archbishop Grindal, it appears 
that the incumbent had his stall. Here the clergy, at least 
those assistant to the ofificiating priest, ought to remain, even 
when the prayers, by the direction of the ordinary, are read in 
the nave ; here the choir, or those assistant in Divine service, 
ought always to be placed. * * * No church, however small, 
ought to be without a regular chancel ; its omission was never 
known till the last century. The gallery, the modern place of 
the performance, is altogether an innovation of later times, and 
like that last mentioned, Popish in its origin. That corrupt idola- 
try of music which prevailed in Italy, induced the admittance of 
persons into the choir who were obviously unfit to sing among 
the clergy, and therefore were placed, like mere instruments, in 
a loft. The effect, ecclesiastically considered, is bad in the 
extreme. There is an appearance of theatrical exhibition in 
this obtrusive elevation of the singers, who frequently attract 
the gaze of the congregation (perhaps, I should rather say of 
the audience) below ; who, while the musicians are performing, 
turn their backs upon minister, altar, arid everything sacred, 
absorbed by that which a savage would actually suppose to be 
the idol of our worship. For many reasons, indeed, I would 
prefer the ancient and unobtrusive position of the organ on one 
side ; which could be so contrived as not to be glaringly 



254 CHOIRS AND ORGANS : 

unsymmetrical. But, in any case, a loft for singers should be 
altogether avoided. It argues great unskilfulness in music to 
require such a proximity to the organist, and the effect is always 
better when the voices and organ are separated by some interval. 
But a much higher and more important reason exists for the 
location of the choir below, in the body of the church or 
chancel. The ministers of divine worship, such as the lay clerks 
and boys, or regularly appointed singers, have a sacred office to 
perform, and in this capacity should occupy a place near the 
clergy. * ♦ ♦ The modern practice quite cuts off the 
clergyman from the singers, and gives the latter an indecent 
elevation. In all these observations, I am introducing or recom- 
mending nothing new, but merely pleading for a return to a 
practice prescribed by the spirit and example of the Church of 
England ; and which practice she gives as the clearest pattern 
in the arrangement of her principal churches, to this hour. It 
is evident that such an arrangement obviously requires no 
additional room, but merely an exchange of places." 

" The Organ," says Mr. J ebb, " was placed on one side of the 
choir, generally the north, and towards the east end. Gervais 
relates that in the i2th century such was its position in Canter- 
bury Cathedral, on the north side over the transept arch ; " and 
our author then proceeds to give a list of those places where this 
arrangement is still observed. In a note, however, we find the 
following : — " In Neale's Views of the Churches of Great Britain 
(Vol. 2) there is an extract from a MS. account of Melford 
Church, in Suffolk, written about the time of the Reformation, 
in which the following notice occurs : * There was a fair Rood 
Loft with the Rood, Mary and John, of every side, and with a 
fair pair of organs standing thereby.' It appears, too, from 
Britton's Arch. Antiqu. (Vol. 4), that the organ in the 
Beauchamp Chapel, at Warwick, stood over the west door ; 
and Aubrey states that the organ in Trinity College Chapel, 
Oxford, stood over the choir screen. I particularly noticed in 
the Louvre, at Paris, a few months ago, that in more than one 
of the many paintings there by Peter Neuf, representing the 
interior of old churches, the organ was placad in a small gallery 
on the south side of the church." 

In the majority of the churches in France, the grand organ 
is placed over the west door — an arrangement which in too many 
instances has the bad effect of blocking up in part the western 
window. Mr. Jebb says this custom was not older than the 
17th century, when Holland was seized with the mania of 
building gigantic and noisy organs, which he terms " enormous 



THEIR PROPER POSITION IN CHURCHES. 255 

music mills/' and he strongly condemns their employment in 
churches under any circumstances. 

History and precedent, then, are not all agreed as to the 
original position of organs in churches, for this king of instru- 
ments seems before the Reformation, as now, to have stood in 
all sorts of places ; — on choir screens, rood screens, over west 
doors, over and in transept arches, on the floor of the chancel, 
over the altar, as in the Royal Chapels of Versailles and the 
Tuilleries ; under the tower, round corners, in hearing, but out 
of sight, and vice versa ; — in short, it would be impossible to 
say, I think, not where organs have stood, but where they have 
not stood in churches. 

Speaking again of the position of the organ, Mr. Jebb 
remarks : — " Of late the organ has been restored to its ancient 
position in the Cathedral of Canterbury, the Parish Church 
of Leeds, and the Temple Church in London." 

I cannot myself ascertain which is the one " ancient position," 
seeing that all sorts of positions have been adopted. I may 
observe, too, that the organ in the Temple Chuich stands on 
the north side, and that in the Parish Church of Leeds on 
the south side. Again, with reference to our author's observa- 
tions on "gigantic organs," I think it must have escaped his 
notice that the introduction of large organs is by no means of 
modern date ; and if we are to rely on history for one point, we 
may, I presume, safely do so for another. 

Now, I find the following statement in more than one work : 
— " St. Jerome says, there was an Organ at Jerusalem which 
could be heard as far as the Mount of Olives." 

If the distance, therefore, from the Church of the Holy 
Sepulchre at Jerusalem to the Mount of Olives, be about a mile 
(as I understand it is), the organ to which St. Jerome alludes 
must have been infinitely more powerful than any of the 
" enormous music mills " of the present day. Far be it from me 
to defend the employment of the huge, screamy, noisy organs 
which are but too often a disgrace to our churches, and frequently 
a means of destroying altogether the effect of what is of far 
greater consequence than any instrumental music — the combined 
and hallowed efforts of a congregation ot worshippers to praise 
God with the "human voice divine." I am no advocate for 
noise, and especially instrumental noise, in our churches ; all I 
wish to have understood is the difference between the use and 
abuse of a large, powerful, and sweet-toned Organ. 

For the general execution of the choral service (which is 
usually performed by choirs numbering from sixty to thirty 



} 



256 CHOIRS AND ORGANS : 

voices), a small instrument may be sufficient ; — indeed, what is 
the choir organ for, but principally to accompany the singers ? 
No judicious organist ever does employ the full power of his 
instrument (if it be a large one) in the ordinary accompaniments 
of the choral service, — he rather confines himself to the use of 
those soft and sweet stops, which will be at once a sufficient 
support for the singing — and a means of giving that variety of 
expression to the music, which the ever varying sentiment of 
the words seems to require. 

Notwithstanding, 1 would ask, are there not times and 
occasions in the due performance of our sacrifice of praise 
and thanksgiving, when the effect of a grand, and — to use a 
technical term — a *' well-balanced " organ, " let out," as Master 
Mace hath it, " into all its fulness of stops," — I ask, arc there 
not times when it is awe-inspiring and powerfully sublime ? 

For instance, who can have heard a crowded congregation in 
a large church sing with heart and voice that glorious, time- 
honoured tune — the old looth Psalm, accompanied with the 
full power of a great and beautiful organ, and not acknowledge 
the powerful aid and thrilling effect which a grand organ gives 
to some portions, at least, of our church service ? 

Again, who can read the account which Master Mace gives of 
congregational singing in York Minster, in 1644, and not 
acknowledge the value of a large — an " enormous " — organ, on 
special occasions, and under peculiar circumstances ? 

After speaking of the number of people, lords, knights, 
gentlemen, etc., who attended service in the Minster ever}' 
Sunday, so that the church was (as he might say) " cramming 
and squeezing full,'' Master Mace adds — " Now here you must 
take notice, that they had then a custom in that church, which 
was, that always before the sermon the whole congregation 
sung a psalm together with the quire and the organ, and you 
must also know that there was then a most excellent, large, 
plump, lusty, full-speaking organ, which cost (as I am credibly 
informed) a thousand pounds. This organ, I say, when the 
psalm was set, being let out into all its fulness of stops, 
together with the choir, began the psalm. But when that vast 
concording unity of the whole congregational chorus came 
thundering in, even so that it made the very ground shake 
under us, (Oh ! the unutterable, ravishing soul's delight !) in the 
which I was so transported and wrapt up into high con- 
templation that there was no room left in my whole man, viz., 
body and spirit, for anything below divine and heavenly 
raptures." 



THEIR PROPER POSITION IN CHURCHES. 257 

When the Rev. J. Jebb and many other writers on the choral 
service condemn the employment of large organs in our 
churches, under any circumstances, in my humble opinion they 
appear to forget to notice the distinction which should be made 
between a congregational and a performed service — in short, 
it seems altogether to be lost sight of, that an organ to support 
a great body of singers — an assembled multitude of worship- 
pers — should be infinitely larger and more powerful than an 
instrument required only to support a few singers who are 
engaged to perform the choral service to the congregation. 
The '* enormous " organs in Holland were erected principally 
for the purpose of accompanying the large number of 
worshippers who sing most lustily in unison the magnificent 
melodies of grand, though simple, chorales, the music of which 
is printed — as it should be in England — with the words of the 
psalms and hymns, thus enabling all, who are able and feel 
disposed, to take part in one of the most delightful and elevating 
portions of public worship. 

I must crave pardon for having digressed somewhat from the 
particular subject under consideration, and yet I am sure we 
must all feel a deep interest in whatever relates to the due and 
efficient performance of those portions of our church service, 
to which music forms such a powerful auxiliary. 

The position of an organ will generally depend on that 
chosen for the choir, and sometimes (but in a smaller degree) 
the position of a choir must depend on the position of the 
organ. Occasionally, the position of the choir must depend 
on that chosen for the minister. 

The chief question on which the position of choirs and organs 
will depend in parish churches is this: — Is the service of our 
church a Congregational Service, and the prayer Common 
Prayer ? Is the choir to be considered as part of the congrega- 
tion ; are we — as I have before ventured to ask in another 
paper* — to lay it down as a fundamental rule in parochial 
worship, that choirs are not organized to sing to or for us, but 
with us, and should not their position in churches be such as 
would best conduce to bring about this, the main object of their 
services? In churches where the congregation is not entirely 
in the choir, as in cathedrals, but in the nave, as in most parish 
churches, is the chancel the proper place for a choir ? Again, 
can it be clearly shown, that the organ is so insignificant a part 
of the fittings of a church, or of so little consequence in the 



*Lecture on Church Music. 

R 



258 CHOIRS AND ORGANS : 

due and efficient celebration of divine service — especially 
when that service is choral service — that it should be concealed 
from view as much as possible, and its tones smothered and its 
whole action and mechanism perilled by being placed (as I 
understand it is in the beautiful church at Howden) under a 
low arch, near a dead, damp wall, and surrounded with pillars? 
By concealing this noble ecclesiastical instrument as much as 
possible, it has been said, that two very important advantages 
are gained ; first, an uninterrupted view of the architectural 
beauties and proportions of the building in which it is placed ; 
and, second, that the tones of the organ affect the congregation 
more when their source is, as it were, unknown. 

The first is, indeed, a most important point, and should always 
be kept in view both by architects and organ builders ; but, if the 
organ, from its unquestionable superiority over all other instru- 
ments, is the instrument most suitable to the majesty of divine 
worship, can it with any propriety or reason be placed in such a 
situation as neither to be fairly seen or heard ? And yet it is a 
fact that the majority of church architects waive this important 
consideration in preparing their plans for any new structure ; 
so that if the erection of an organ be not specially named, and 
is not brought forward till some time after the completion of 
the church — which is often the case from want of funds and 
other causes — the architect is astonished and confounded some 
fine morning at being told that an organ is to stand in a 
situation which he feels will assuredly ruin the proportions of 
his building. 

Surely, the architect of the beautiful little church you have, 
I believe, gentlemen, been visiting this morning (St. John's, 
Holbeck), cannot really believe, if he has considered the matter 
at all, that the hole in the wall over the north porch is a suitable 
place for an organ ?* And yet I am told, on credible authority, 
that it is intended to place an organ there, and such a one as 
will be worthy of the church, and of the liberality of its pious 
founders — the choir, it must be remembered, being at the other 
end of the church. 

No person, who is at all acquainted either with music or the 
principles of acoustics, can imagine that an organ placed under 
a low arch, with three sides of it close to dead walls — in fact, in 
a stone box — will produce the same effect as an organ placed 
in an open situation in the church where the vibration is 
considerable. " Organ builders," says an intelligent writer on 

* There is a similar instance in the fine old Parish Church of Driffield. 



THEIR PROPER POSITION IN CHURCHES. 259 

this subject, " well know the difference between voicing an organ 
for a recess in a small chapel, and one for a central situation in 
a spacious church. In one case where the obstacles are 
numerous and close to the organ, it is almost impossible to 
produce a proper quality of tone, especially from large pipes. 
Whereas, in the other case, the organ builder soon finds the 
required tone, owing to all obstacles being at a distance, and the 
vibration of each pipe not being disturbed but in its * periphery,' 
thus causing an agreeable reflection of sound, such as we find 
on listening to the organs in our cathedrals and other large 
buildings.'' It is a singular fact connected with the amount of 
resonance in different buildings, that the enormous organ built 
by Mr. Willis, which stood at the west end of the Crystal 
Palace, and which contained three sets of manuals, an immense 
number of stops, and a large pedal organ, was not in effect so 
powerful as an instrument in a church at Islington, with one 
row of keys and eight stops. This anomalous effect must be 
attributed solely to the total absence of reverberation from 
the immense quantity oi glass in the Great Exhibition. 

From what I have stated at the commencement of my paper, 
it will be seen, I think, that no one position for organs has 
•exclusively been adopted in any age of the church, — though it 
must be admitted that from about the 15th century they have 
been generally placed, in parish churches, in the western 
gallery, — and in cathedrals and collegiate churches on the 
screen which separates the choir from the nave. 

The present generation being at liberty, then, to legislate on 
the subject, I have ventured, as a church organist, to draw up a 
few rules which, I hope, may be of some service to those who 
wish to place organs and choirs in churches in such a position 
as will best suit the requirements of the choral service — and, at 
the same time, not disfigure the architectural beauties of the 
building. 

Rule L — An organ should not play over one choir to another 
choir.* 

Rule II. — The people should not be between the choir and 

organ, t 

Rule III — The singers in a choir must not have their backs 
to the people. 

Rule IV, — A choir should never be in a gallery. 

In churches where there is a double choir and an organ, 
it seems to me that the organ may often be advantageously 



i.^., when the organ is placed on the ground, t As at St. Paul's, Knightsbridge. 



26o CHOIRS AND ORGANS : 

placed in the centre of a low organ screen, in the old and 
common position. As a general rule, choirs should as nearly as 
possible form an equilateral triangle with the organ. It is an 
important question, and one deserving of close investigation, 
whether listeners, or those who depend on choirs for assistance, 
should be east of the choirs ; and it is certainly not advisable for 
the congregation to come between the choir and organ. I 
cannot help remarking here, that the usual places appropriated 
to the dignitaries in our cathedrals appear to be the worst in the 
church, and it is very curious that the chief places should be 
west of the choir. 

I stated in Rule 1., an organ must not play over one choir to 
another choir, as at the Temple Church, and at St. Andrew's, 
Wells Street. It has a one-sided effect ; and, as the organist 
generally hears one choir above the other, and the choir nearest 
the organ hears considerably more of the organ than the other 
choir opposite, it is frequently the cause of serious faults and 
blemishes in the performance of the music. For this reason the 
organ should always, if possible, be placed considerably above 
the heads of the singers, — the tones of an instrument proceeding 
immediately before a choir will, assuredly, rather confuse than 
assist them. If, therefore, circumstances require the organ to be 
placed on the floor of a church, the sound-board should be fixed 
as high as the architecture, or other points, will allow. 

It is well known, I believe, that a war has been for some time 
carried on by architects against cathedral organs, and many of 
them are being removed from their legitimate place and poked 
into transepts, galleries, and elsewhere, to the injury of the 
instruments, and the hindrance of the choral service. A gentle- 
man who takes great interest in ecclesiastical architecture and 
ecclesiastical music (Sir Henry Dryden, of Canons Ashby), 
writes me, that the reason of this war " is the noisy tastes of 
organists, who have got their instruments to such a huge size as 
to be disfigurements to the building, and at last intolerable, and 
consequently removed." " Organs of a sufficient size," he con- 
tinues, " lowered a little more into the organ screen would be no 
disfigurements." 

In Westminster Abbey, the choir organ remains in its original 
place, and the result of placing the great organ and swell on 
either side, is said by some persons to be the most successful 
example of removal in England.* 

* Since writing the above, I have had the advantage of personally ascertaining 
the musical merits of the removal of this noble instrument, by taking part in the 
services, anthems, etc., which are annually performed in the Abbey on the *' Purcell 



THEIR PROPER POSITION IN CHURCHES. 261 

1 understand that the organ in Canterbury Cathedral is made 
very heavy in the touch (by the distance between the pipes and 
the keys), and slow in speech (by removal), and is, moreover, 
lop-sided in effect. The Temple organ is muffled in a box, 
and unequal in its effect : to a great extent the same may be 
said of the organ at our Leeds Parish Church ; and these 
defects all result from the . improper placing of these 
instruments. 

With regard to parish churches, which have commonly 
chancels — not choirs, as in cathedrals, — and as the chief part 
of the church is filled with the congregation, 1 may ask, ought 
not the service to be congregational ? It is evident, if the 
people are to sing, they must in a great measure be dependent 
on the choir. They must, therefore, hear the latter as distinctly 
as possible, and must not, consequently, be between it and 
the organ. 

To those who have thought at all upon the subject of my 
paper, 1 need scarcely say, that the arrangement of the organ 
and choir must be greatly regulated by the size and shape of 
the church ; so that no rule can be laid down for the exact 
position of either. Although it is not to be expected that 
choral service will be attained in every church, yet it is always 

day " — a day wisely set apart to commemorate the geoius of ii-ngland's •* most famous 
musician." J must confess, I agree with the opinions given me on that day, both by 
several of the lay clerks and by some of our most distinguished organists, that the 
practical effect of the removal of the organ is highly prejudicial to the proper perfor- 
mance of the vocal portions of the service ; the singers seldom now keep with the 
organ, it being a most difficult task for them to hear any, part of ihe instrument 
distinctly from the choir seats. It is right, however, to add that Mr. Turle, the 
organist, informed me that he could at all times hear the singers from the organ 
seat. But among the honoured associations with this venerable Minster, before 
the alterations had taken place (which, perhaps, for architectural purposes are so 
satisfactory), it is impossible to forget the following glowing outburst of eloquence 
of Washington Irving, excited by the pealing glories of that noble organ when in 
its old position over the choir screen : — ** Suddenly the notes of the deep labour- 
ing organ burst upon the ear, falling with double and redoubled intensity, and 
rolling, as it were, huge billows of sound. How well do their volume and 
grandeur accord with this mighty building ! with what pomp do they swell 
through its vast vaults, and breathe their awful harmony through these caves of 
death, and make the silent sepulchre vocal ! And now they rise in triumphant 
acclamation, heaving higher and higher their accordant notes, and piling sound on 
sound. And now they pause, and the soft voices of the quire break out into 
sweet gushes of melody ; they soar aloft and warble along the roof, and seem to 
play about these lofty vaults like the pure airs of heaven. Again the pealing 
organ heaves its thrilling thunders, compressing air into music and rolling it forth 
upon the soul. What long-drawn cadences ! what solemn sweeping concords ! It 
grows more and more dense and powerful — it fills the vast pile, and seems to jar the 
very walls — the ear is stunned — the senses are overwhelmed. And now it is 
winding up in full jubilee — it is rising from the earth to heaven — the very soul 
seems rapt away and floated upwards on the swelling tide of harmony ! " 



262 CHOIRS AND ORGANS : 

desirable to arrange the singers so as to form two choirs ; and 
I may venture to lay it down as an axiom that service, however 
musical, is no choral service if there are not twc choirs. 
Speaking historically, it seems hardly right to adduce as 
evidence for the proper position of choirs, any customs which 
may have prevailed before the Reformation, as the service then 
was not a congregational service. But since the Reformation,. 
I believe, there has been scarcely a choral service in a church 
with only a chancel instead of a choir. Presuming, then, that 
our service is a congregational service (which is its distinction 
from all other services), it is quite wrong for the minister to be 
screened off from the people ; he ought, I presume, to be 
always in the nave (as, indeed, he generally is), except for the 
Communion Service ; and we will suppose the officiating 
minister to face north or south, except during the reading of the 
Lessons, when he faces west. Now the people are all the time 
facing east. This being the case, it seems absurd for a minister 
placed in the nave to be responded to by a choir in the chancel, 
— perhaps on the other side of a screen, while the people are in 
the nave. 

At Canons Ashby (Northamptonshire), the people face east^ 
The two choirs are behind them, and the organ still west, 
behind the choirs. This plan is good for the singing of the 
choir, and the people's hearing and singing ; but it is objected 
to on the ground that the congregation might turn round, as 
they but too often do, when the choir is in a west gallery. The 
organs in Jesus College, and St. John's, Cambridge, are placed, 
I am informed, in small galleries (appropriated to the organ 
alone) on the north side of the chancels, about eight feet from 
the floor ; the front of each instrument containing the diapasons 
projects from an arch ; — the organ in St. John's is an example of 
the position of an organ about the period of the Reformation,, 
but now unused, the musical service in this, as well as in several 
other College Chapels in Cambridge, having been for a number 
of years discontinued ; that in Jesus College is after the ancient 
mode, and is found to be effective. 

One plan which I would suggest, is to have the two choirs 
facing one another, near the desk and pulpit (the people facing 
east), and to have the organ on both sides of the chancel (the 
conducting tubes and trackers going under the floor), or at the 
east end of one aisle. 

We will now suppose the singers to be in the chancel (for the 
priest's position is, of course, beyond my humble province), 
and assume that the two choirs are on the two sides of the 



THEIR PROPER POSITION IN CHURCHES. 263 

chancel, as at St. Margaret's, Leicester. Then the organ 
(if the chancel is large enough) may be east of the choir 
and divided. 

This particular organ at St. Margaret's, Leicester, is, however, 
clumsily managed, and looks ugly and untidy ; but there is, of 
course, no necessity for that Besides being divided, a part of 
the organ on the north side is placed in an additional building, 
which also serves for the vestry. This plan answers exceedingly 
well, and if the choir is to be in the chancel, and the chancel is 
large enough, it is, perhaps, the best plan. If the organ is small, 
it may be altogether inside the arch opening into the vestry, so 
as to make, by its front, an ornamental filling up of the arch. In 
that case, it would be better to have the player at the east side 
of the organ, and the blower opposite to him. 

At Byfield, Northamptonshire, the organ, as in cases named 
just now, is over the altar, which is, of course, indefensible ; but 
the musical effect might be good if the choir was in the 
chancel. At Cannons, in Hertfordshire, Handel's organ is in a 
similar position. 

At St. Mark's, Chelsea, there is at present no organ ; the 
choirs face each other in the transepts, and the people face east 
in the nave. This, it appears to me, is just as it should be. It 
has been proposed, in case an organ is placed in the church, to 
put it round the apse, between the colonnade and the exterior 
wall. I have no doubt it would answer very well in that 
position. If a chancel has aisles, the east end of one aisle 
might, I think, often be a very good place for the organ, or 
against the wall of the aisle, especially if elevated. 

An organ builder of great experience, gives it as the result of 
his observation, that the most favourable position for sound 
seems to be where the organ can be placed under a roof which 
has a pitch or inclination of 45 degrees. A low roof, especially 
when plastered, is generally prejudicial to sound ; and a number 
of angles in a low roof is also most unfavourable to sound. He 
considers that wood and stone are each as favourable reflectors 
of sound as chalk and plaster are unfavourable. 

In places where neither the principles of architectural societies 
have penetrated, or the desire to return to the former customs 
and uses of our church, either in the celebration of the service or 
in the fittings of the edifice, has been felt, the place of the choir, 
as many of us know to our sorrow, is still in the west gallery ; 
and this arrangement is not only objectionable in a musical 
point of view, but, so far as my experience goes, it certainly 
prevents the carrying out of that excellent passage in Holy 



264 CHOIRS AND organs: 

Writ, " Let all things be done decently and in order." Those 
who have had much to do with choirs need not be reminded 
that there is a great difiference between the conduct of singers in 
a choir (especially the youthful portion of them) when placed in 
the nave or in the chancel under the immediate eye of the 
minister and congregation, and their conduct in a gallery when 
they but too often entertain the idea that they are not there as 
a part of the congregation — and members of the church, — but as 
vocalists employed to sing to and for the people. In places 
where they desire to have as much of the choral service as can 
be accomplished by a choir in the gallery, with the clergyman 
reading the prayers, sentences, etc., below in the nave, a plan 
has been adopted, where there are two choirs, of placing them in 
close proximity to the organ and opposite to each other — the 
object being to obtain the antiphonal effect, which, however, is 
certainly not to be secured by this arrangement. For, in the 
first place, the choirs are so near the centre of the gallery, that 
the congregation below are rarely, if ever, aware which choir is 
singing — whether that on the decani or cantoris side ; and, in the 
second place, the choirs face each other so closely that in the 
chorus the parts are so much confused that the singers them- 
selves are unable to distinguish one voice from another. 

At Daventry Church, as circumstances prevented the choir 
being removed from the gallery, 1 found it answer well to place 
one choir in the north and the other in the south gallery. 
The antiphonal character of the musical part of the service was, 
by this arrangement, well sustained. 

The most successful example I can adduce of the position of 
an organ near the choir, and not in a gallery, is in the new 
church of St. Mary Magdalene, St. Pancras, London, where the 
organ (a charming instrument, built by Gray and Davison) is 
placed against the wall, at the east end of the south aisle, on 
stone corbels about eight feet high — thus elevating the 
instrument considerably above the singers, so that both sides of 
the choirs and the congregation hear the organ equally well. 

I will conclude my paper with a few remarks on the position 
of organs and choirs in two or three churches in Paris, from 
which, I think, some hints may be derived. In all the principal 
churches of Paris there are two organs, one being placed in close 
proximity to the choir — and especially built to accompany the 
voices — the other, the grand organ, invariably stands over the 
inner porch of the western entrance, and is principally used for 
voluntaries, preludes, interludes, etc., as, for instance, at the 
beautiful church of the Madelaine, in which the effect of the 



THEIR PROPER POSITION IN CHURCHES. 265 

harmony is most impressive ; and, while repudiating the 
obviously overwrought attention to this striking efifect, I cannot, 
as a musician, withhold the observation that the occasional 
response by the grand organ to the passages being performed 
by the choir, accompanied by its organ, is most thrilling. I 
may observe that the latter organ is unseen, being placed, as 1 
was given to understand, in the centre of a space behind the 
altar : this instrument contains many reed stops of a superior 
tone and quality, producing a most grateful harmony, fusing 
and blending in the happiest manner with the voices. Indeed, 
I may be pardoned for remarking that the musical arrangements 
at these churches bear obvious evidences of a careful considera- 
tion of all the requisites to effect a desired result. 

It is quite a common practice in this country for an organ 
to be ordered of a builder at a distance, who is quite ignorant 
of the form, structure, or magnitude of the church in which it is 
to be placed, and who supplies an organ in utter contempt of 
its appropriateness, either as a musical instrument, or as 
harmonizing with the general design and decoration of the 
edifice ; in a word, it is ordered with less regard to suitability 
than a piece of upholstery — a washstand or a Tudor bedstead. 

Now, it is due to the French organ builders to remark, and I 
do so in consequence of conversations I have had with several 
of them, that it is their uniform practice to make a most 
careful examination of a church to ascertain its acoustic 
character, and observe what is the amount of resonance it 
displays, before determining the kind of organ to be erected ; 
moreover, the greater part of the pipes are voiced and finished 
off in the building itself, and the effect of the various stops, 
singly and in combination, is proved as the structure proceeds 
to completion ; and thus there is produced that perfect 
conformity between the edifice and this most important accessory 
to its use, which should characterize every work designed to be 
great and good. 

But it would be an injustice to our English organ builders to 
condemn them en masse^ or to conceal the fact, that, as mere 
men of business, we can scarcely blame them for executing an 
order, when, too frequently owing to a false economy, and the 
competition of trade, the price is so low that all we can expect 
is a piece of common — perhaps, respectable — ^journeywork, 
instead of an instrument designed to subserve one of the 
noblest uses to which a material structure can be devoted. 

Both Mr. Bishop and Mr. Hill may, without any invidious 
distinction, be honestly mentioned for the care, taste, . 



266 CHOIRS AND ORGANS. 

judgment they evince in adapting the tone of the various stops 
of the organs which they build, to the churches for which they 
are constructed. 

As far as I can venture in this place to give an opinion on the 
relative merits of modern French and English organs, I may 
observe that the former are distinguished for the superiority of 
their material and workmanship, both in wood and metal — for 
their reeds, which are beautifully finished — and for their clever 
application of the pneumatic power ; whilst the latter are equally 
superior to the French in the extent and effectiveness of the 
swelling organs — for the combination of their mixtures^ or the 
chorus — and for the general weight of the whole instrument. 

At St. Denis the choir organ is placed in front of the grand 
altar, and being low, does not at all intercept the view, the 
choir being ranged on either side, — en passant, I may notice 
that when I entered the church some portion of the service was 
being performed, and, two bassoons being added to the 
accompaniment, to support the bass of the organ, a most 
preternatural sensation was experienced. 

In the church of St. Sulpice, the choir organ is placed at the 
north side of the choir, but to the east of the singers. 

I had almost omitted to notice, as a practical matter 
connected with the subject, that the injury to an organ 
occasioned by the products of combustion from the gas, now so 
generally used in churches, and which, I need not stay to prove, 
are much more detrimental in the upper parts of a building, is a 
strong ground for removing the instrument from galleries and 
other lofty situations, at any rate, in parish churches. 

Generally, I would submit that as historical data do not 
furnish any uniform rule for our guidance in the locating of organs 
and choirs, wc are warranted on every ground of convenience, 
utility, and decency, in selecting such positions for them as 
shall render them most conducive to promote the purpose they 
are designed to subserve in divine worship. 

Leeds, August, 1852. 



267 



A FEW SELECTED 

ANNOTATED PROGRAMMES OF ORGAN RECITALS 

GIVEN IN THE TOWN HALL, LEEDS, 

AT VARIOUS TIMES, 

WHICH MAY PROVE OF USE AND INTEREST 

TO YOUNG ORGANISTS 

WHO HAVE NOT ALWAYS AT HAND 

THE NECESSARY MEANS AND REQUIRED BOOKS 

OF REFERENCE. 



268 ORGAN RECITAL PROGRAMMES, 

THE 

BI-CENTENARY OF JOHANN SEBASTIAN BACH, 

Bom 2 1st March, 1685, at Eisenach ; died 28th July, 1750, at Leipzig. 

From the above it will be seen that we have on this day arrived at the 200th 
Anniversary of the birth of the Great Musician, Bach, who, like his distinguished 
co-temporary, Handel, was born in 1685. On such an occasion I have thought it 
desirable and interesting to draw from the beautiful and inexhaustible works of 
these great masters, selections characteristic of their style and grandeur ; and 
although Bach is not so popular as Handel on account of the absence of that flow oi 
purely natural melody to be found in the comp>ositions of the latter, still it is hoped 
that as the self-denying, everlastingly-working Bach, sung only for himself and the 
muses, and never worked for the crowd, but " always had in his mind an ideal 
perfection without any view to approbation," his wonderful creations will become 
more and more appreciated a"nd understood, and that the programme given to-night 
will be acceptable not only on such grounds, but as a tribute of respect to the 
genius and memory of so great an artist. 

I. — Bourr6e in C Minor and Major - - /. S. Bach 

A short but charming piece of Music adapted from one of those fascinating 
excerpts which Joachim on the violin, and Piatti on the violoncello, frequently 
introduce to the public with so much success. Bourrie is a dance tune in common 
time, said to have had its origin in Auvergne, and it often forms one of the move- 
ments of the earlier sonata. 

2. — Toccata and Fugue in D Minor - - /. S, Bach 

This is one of the finest of all the grand works Bach produced for the organ, 
upon which he was so consummate a master that Forkel his biographer, says— That 
* ' he stood like a giant able to trample into dust all who ventured to break a lance 
with him." The D Minor Toccata and Fugue formed one of the great selection 
Mendelssohn performed on the organ in St. Thomas*s Church, I^eipzic, in 1840. 
when, after 100 years of neglect, the modem organist and composer put himself 
forward with persistent enthusiasm to show the world what a magnificent artist 
Sebastian Bach was, and how thoroughly deserving of honour and preservation were 
his Works— especially his sublime organ compositions and inventions. 

3. — Air de la Pentecote (Easter Cantata) - /. 5. Bach 

*■ My heart ever faithful " begin the expressive lines which have been set to this 
lovely air- as good a specimen of pure and refined melody as can be found among 
all the works of the great masters." 

4. — PRiELUDlUM AND FuGUE in B Flat, on the 

name of B.A.C.H. . - - - J, S, Bach 

In the German nomenclature of music, H stands for B natural, and this i^dll 
explain how Bach was able to make his splendid fugue out of the letters of his own 
name. Schumann and others have written fugues on the same theme. 

George Fredk. Handel, 

Bora February 23rd, 1685, at Halle ; died 13th April, 1759, in London. 

5.— Air, " Return, O God of Hosts " - - Handel 

A contralto air from the Oratorio, Samson^ of the most pathetic and 
expressive character, and which seems peculiarly adapted for the purpose of 
applying the Art of Ringing to the Organ. 

6. — Grand Coronation Anthem, "Zadoc the 

Priest" ----- Handel 



LEEDS TOWN HALL. 269 

HOURS WITH THE GREAT COMPOSERS. 



CORELLI AND HANDEL. 

(B. 1653; D. 1713.) (B. 1685; D. 1759.) 

Part First— Corelll 

I.— Sonata in A Major - - - CorelH 

PreludiOy Largo, 
Giga^ Allegro, 
Adagio. 
Tempo di Gavotta^ Allegro, 

Arcangelo Corelli, whom the Italians call il divino^ was undoubtedly one of 
the greatest and most distinguished of all the great composers and performers. He 
published a large number of works for stringed instruments : concertos, sonatas, etc., 
with accompaniment of a figured bass, and they all bear the marks of genius and 
scholarship. Handel most certainly derived some of his ideas from Corelli, and that 
is why I have coupled their names in to-night's programme, so that the hearers may 
judge for themselves. 

2. — Pastorale in G Major - - - Corelli 

This is said to be the most famous of all Corelli's works, and is taken from the 
Eighth Concerto y written for Christmas Eve ; or, as the composer expresses himself, 
" Fatto per la Notte di Natale." 

3. — Maestoso Vivace, and Allegro in D, from 

the Seventh Concerto - - - Corelli 

There is a vigour and freshness in these two short extracts which, to my taste, 
are infinitely more effective and interesting than many an effeminate, pretentious 
composition of the present day. 

Part Second— Handel. 

4. — Aria, " Se non ho I'idol mio " (" If fate our love 

must sever") - . . - Handel 

A beautiful contralto air, taken from the opera Berenice, composed by Handel 
in 1737. It has ever been a great favourite with the chief singers of the day. 

5. — Concerto in F Major (Allegro movement)- Handel 

I have selected only the opening movement of this great work — the favourite 
portion thereof — in consequence of the length of the whole, but there is such a spirit, 
brightness, life, and power in this single Allegro as will probably satisfy Handel's 
devotees on this occasion. 

6.— Air, " Return, O God of Hosts ! behold Thy 

servant in distress " (Samson) - - Handel 

This is another of the famous composer's pathetic songs, in which the music 
beautifully expresses the meaning of the words. 

7. — Coronation Anthem, " Zadoc the Priest " Handel 

a grand and favourite Anthem, composed for the Coronation of George II. in 
1727. The opening symphony, pia, by the strings, with the oboes and bassoons, 
increasing up to the first burst of voices on the word ** Zadoc," is very effective, and 
consequently a great favourite with most organists. The concluding movement, 
brilliant in the extreme, forms also the last chorus in the Occasional Oratorio. 



270 ORGAN RECITAL PROGRAMMES, 



SELECTION FROM THE HANDEL FESTIVAL 

PROGRAMME, 188S. 



I. — Coronation Anthem, "Zadoc the Priest" Handel 

" And all the people rejoiced and said — 
Long live the King ! May the King live for ctct ! " 

2. — Air, •* Love in her eyes sits playing '* (Ads and 

Galatea) ----- Handel 

A delicloas tenor melodj, sung hj Mr. Lloyd with the greatest taste and 
efiecL 

3. — ^Trio and CHORUS, ^ See the conquering hero 

comes " - - - - - Handel 

This familiar old piece, performed with all the important accessaries c^ tminpets, 
dmms, and piccolos, made a great impression on the 23,000 peiscns who listened 
to it in the Crystal Palace last week. 

4. — Song, " Let the bright seraphim in burning row, \ ^ j^. 

Their loud uplifted trumpets blow." J 

Madame Albani gave this brilliant morceau^ with trumpet obbligato by Mr. 
McGrath, in sach a giorioos style as to elicit thunders of applause from andimce and 
<vcfaestra. 

5. — Chorus, " Ye Tutelar Gods " - - Handel 

An extract from the Oratorio Bi^shaszar^ which was perfcxmed i%x the first 
time, and was not before known by one musician oat of ten thousand, line as it isl 

6. — Largo in G - - - - Handel 

A quiet, serene strain, developed from one of Handel's earlier opens, and now 
become a great faToorite since its adaptation by a German composer for organ, harp, 
and strings. 

7. — Bass Air, " Honour and Arms " - - Handd 

The song of Harapba the Giant, who defies and challenges Samsoo, by whom 
he is afterwards very properly slain. It was rmdered in Tigorous style by Mr. 
Santley, who was raptarously encored. 

8. — Overture to the "Occasional" Oratorio Handd 

Probably no betto^ instrumental piece emanated from the teeming brain of the 
great Saxon composer, than this bright, melodious " Occasional " Overture, the final 
March in which was irresistibly enccH^ed at the Crystal Palace. 



LEEDS TOWN HALL. 27 1 

HOURS WITH THE GREAT COMPOSERS. 



Haydn — Born 1732 ; Died 1809. 

Joseph Haydn was born of humble music-loving parents in the small village of 
Rohran, near Vienna, and very early displayed that fondness and genius for the art 
of which he became so great a master. Subsequently he became a singing boy in the 
choir of St. Stephen's Cathedral, at Vienna, and it was whilst in this congenia 
appointment that his great ability was discovered and fostered. 

In 1 761 Haydn was appointed director of the music in the palace of Prince 
Esterhazy, in which position he remained to the end of his long, honourable life. 
His industry was as remarkable as his genius. He composed no less than 853 
works, 290 being vocal, and 563 instrumental compositions, including the grand 
Symphonies and Quartets. In all he did Haydn was perfectly natural and unaffected ; 
— at the same lime he was master of the technical ties of his beloved art. His 
melodies are as fresh, happy, and genial now as they were a hundred years ago. The 
advice he gave to a young composer showed that his love of tune was predominant. 
** Lei your air or melody," he said, ** be good, and your composition, whatever it is, 
will be so likewise, and will assuredly delight It is the soul of music, the life, the 
spirit, the essence of a composition ; — without it theorists may succeed in discovering 
and using the most singular and learned chords, but nothing is heard after all but a 
laboured sound, which, though it may not vex the ear, leaves the head empty, and 
the heart cold and unaffected by it.'* 

I. — Kyrie Eleison, from the Second Mass - Haydn 

Both the opening Adagio and the Allegro Moderato in this Kyrie are strikingly 
characteristic of Haydn's style and manner ; in the former there is dignity and 
scholarship, in the latter beauty and happiness. The transcription played from is by 
that eminent English organist, and my own esteemed old friend, Dr. E. J. Hopkins. 

2. — Selection from "The Seasons" - Haydn 

a. The Overture. 

b. Chorus, "Come, gentle spring." 
Haydn was nearly 70 years of age when he composed *'The Seasons,** an extra- 
ordinary work of no less merit than The Creation in the opinion of many able critics. 
These excerpts constitute the two first numbers,— the characteristic overture, and the 
flowing, delicious chorus, ** Come, gentle spring." 

3. — Andante in C Major from the Third Symphony, 

commonly called " The Surprise " - - Haydn 

There is a charming grace and beauty of both melody and harmony throughout 
this popular movement, and the reason of its having been called ** The Surprise" 
will be recognized at about the 20lh bar. 

4. — The Austrian Hymn, " God preserve the 

Emperor" ----- Haydn 

This well-known air, upon which the composer has made some tuneful 
variations, has been arranged from Haydn's 3rd Violin Quartet, Op. 76. On the 
26th May, 1809, he broke from his long illness and torpor, as if by a preternatural 
effort, and sang twice with clear and emphatic voice this, his own favourite hymn, 
" God preserve the Emperor ; " and, but five days later, he breathed his last, 
having far exceeded the allotted threescore years and ten. 

5. — Selection from " The Creation " - Haydn 

a. The Instrumental Prelude, ** Representation of Chaos." 

b. Chorus, ** And the Spirit.'* 

c. Air, ** With Verdure clad." 

d. Grand Chorus, ** The Heavens are telling." 



{ 



\ 



272 ORGAN RECITAL PROGRAMMES, 



HOURS WITH THE GREAT COMPOSERS. 



Gluck. 

CHRISTOPII WILLIBALD GLUCK was born in 1714, at Weidenwang, in 
Bohemia, and died at Vienna, November 15th, 1787. He was the son of poor 
parents, who had not th<* necessary means to pay for his education, and he w^as 
compelled to sing and play in different church choirs and orchestras in Prague and 
Vienna to make a living and pay for his lessons with the best masters. His great 
musical genius, care, and industry soon led to his becoming known as a composer, 
and he wrote, with more or less success, different operas, according to the customary 
traditional forms, for divers Italian stages. Subsequently, after having experienced 
many vicissitudes in London, Paris, etc. , he returned to his home in Vienna, from 
whence he proclaimed those great ideas of a true musical drama, which effected a 
revolution in the form of opera. His first important work was the opera " Iphigenia 
en Aulide," and its performance caused a profound sensation of wonder, admiration, 
and reverence for the genius of its composer. It was speedily followed by ** Orfeo, " 
** Alceste," '* Armide" etc. His overture to ** Iphigenia en Aulide " is a remark- 
ably fine work, full of animation, fire, and poetic fancy. Gluck's operas are truly 
grand — not in the modern sense, because the heroes wear helmets and the heroines 
tiaras — but because every tender phrase and declaration echoes from the deepest 
recesses of the heart. GIucIjl was so much in earnest, so exquisitely melodious, so 
fanciful in his accompaniments, so pure in his harmonies, so rich and unexpected in 
his modulation and transition, that all must acknowledge in him the precursor and 
model of Mozart. Gluck left a fortune of ;f 30,000, the fruits of his talents and 
industrv. 

I. — Overture and Chorus, "Great gods! who of 
crime are avengers ? " From the opera, " Iphigdnia 
in Tauris.*' - - - - - Gluck 

2. — Larghetto, in D Minor, from " Orfeo " - Gluck 

3.— Chorus - " Torna O Cella " - - Gluck 

4.— Regit, and Aria " Che Faro." (" Orfeo ") - - Gluck 

A celebrated aria sung by Mdme. Viardot Garcia, Mdme. Sainton Dolby, 
Mdme. Patey, etc. Both recitative and air are full of expressive melody. 

5. — Overture to the Opera " Iphigenia en Aulide " Gluck 



6. 



7. 



a. Chorus " Passante Deite '' 

b. Religious March "Alceste" " 

' a. Religious March, in G. 

b. Chorus, " Heavens Anger passes away." 

From the opera, " Iphigenia in Tauris.'' 



Gluck 



Gluck 



LEEDS TOWN HALL. 273 

HOURS WITH THE GREAT COMPOSERS. 
Mozart — Born 1756, at Salzburg ; Died 1791,10 Vienna. 

" I wish I could inspire every friend of music, and great men in particular, 
with the same depth of sympathy and profound appreciation of Mozart's inimitable 
music that I myself feel and enjoy ; then nations would vie with each other in the 
endeavour to possess such a jewel within their frontiers. — ^Joseph Haydn, 
December, 1787. 

I. — Overture to the Opera "Die Zauberflote" 

(The Magic Flute) - - - - Mozart 

** The overture opens with a majestic introductory movement, in which 
the solemn strains of the religious music of the Priests of Isis and Osiris is 
intimated. With magnificent power and skill, Mozart had previously, in the Finale 
of the Jupiter Symphony solved the problem already mapped out by J. S. Bach, the 
sustenance and filling in of a large form with contrapuntal detail. The subjects of 
the overture, while distinct in their individuality, are yet consonant in their details, 
and the action of the entire work is sustained with a wonderful unity of purpose. At 
the close of the first part of the form (Binary or Duplex) the wind instruments pro- 
nounce with great dignity the three different positions of the chord of the dominant ; 
a device intimating the summons played on the horns of the Egyptian priests. The 
action is resumed, and the different themes are represented in the key of the tonic, 
and the overture then concludes with a brief, but stately coda. ** Die Zauberffote " 
was performed on September 30th, 1 791, at Vienna." 

2. — Symphony — F major " Un Poco Adagio " - Mozart 

The quiet serenity, the true genius, the refined melody of this exquisite morceau 
from one of Mozart's Grand Symphonies will commend itself to every listener, 
musical or otherwise. 

3. — Motet, for Solo Vioces, Chorus and Orchestra 

" Splendente Te Deus " - - - Mozart 

This arrangement for the organ of the most famous Motet Mozart ever 
composed, has been made with masterly skill by Dr. E. J. Hopkins, oiganist of the 
Temple Church, London. The work is full of animated passages, and strikingly 
melodious effects. 

4. — Larghetto in D, from the Clarionet Quintet - Mozart 

In all Mozart's writings there is perfect form and beauty, and in such gems ^s 
this which has been often played by our distinguished English clarionetist, Lazarus, 
at the Monday Popular Concerts, there is a refined elegance, sweetness, and tender- 
ness which afford equal delight to the skilled musician as well as to the lover of 
music having no scientific knowledge thereof. 

5. — Chimes for a Clock - - - - Mozart 

This trifling composition is only valuable and interesting as being the work of a 
child of six years of age. Mozart when taken to London with his sister to display 
his wonderful abilities as a pianist, and improvisatore^ was unexpectedly asked one 
day what sort of chimes he would compose for a new clock with bells, whereupon, 
without a moment's hesitation, the little boy played on the pianoforte with his two 
first fingers to begin with, and then varying a little, "just for the fun of the thing," 
the chimes which I will now give you on the pretty Carillon stop, presented 
at my request by the generous Alderman Marsden, when Mayor of Leeds. The 
cost of the bells was ;^ioo. 

6. — Selection from the Opera " Don Giovanni^' including such 
favourite excerpts as time will permit of performance. 



274 ORGAN RECITAL PROGRAMMES, 

HOURS WITH THE GREAT COMPOSERS. 
Beethoven. — Born at Bonn, 1770 ; died at Vienna, 1827. 

Beethoven, like many other great geniuses, was neither felt nor understood 
during his lifetime :— he opened out a new world of music, — he discovered new 
forms and phrases and harmonic combinations which astonished and alarmed the 
musical scholars of his period, and caused him to be regarded with suspicion and 
jealousy. His stupendous inspirations and marvellous creations are now universally 
acknowledged wherever music is understood, and his works are regarded with 
reverence, enthusiasm, and delight, With an ardent soul and an energetic 
character, he acquired a power, both as a composer and performer, that served him 
as a lever to agitate men at will, to raise or attemper their pas>ions. Living in 
solitude (always in love, but never married) he fell back upon himself and studied 
in the depths of his own being, — in the movements of his internal life, -whether 
tranquil or agitated. Thus all his works are a translation of his sentiments and 
emotions. 

I. — Overture to the Opera " Fidelio " - Beethoven 

Beethoven's great opera, ** Lenore,** or, as it was afterwards called, ** Fidelio," 
was produced in November, 1805, seven days after the entrance of Napoleon's 
troops into Vienna. In consequence of this untoward circumstance, non-success was 
a foregone conclusion on its first appearance in the presence of an audience chiefly 
composed of French officers, and in the absence from the city of all the principal 
lovers of music. Since that time the composition has been regarded by the true 
musical critic as one of his greatest works. Beethoven wrote no less than four 
overtures to the opera, that in E, now under notice, being the last, and, as it has 
since become, the most popular of all. It is impossible to listen to its noble, 
varied strains, without feeling you are in the presence of a master of harmony, 
one who waves the magician's wand, and conjures up poetical images and fanciful 
thoughts with divine power and effect. 

2. — Romance in F Major (Op. 50) - - Beethoven 

Beethoven composed two romanzas for the violin, with orchestral or pianoforte 
accompaniments — one in G, the other in F. Both compositions exhibit that opulence 
of melody and harmony characteristic of the immortal composer. 

3. — Air and Variations from the celebrated 

" Septuor ''---- Beethoven 

Originally this Septet, Op. 20, was written for violin, viola, clarionet, horn, 
bassoon, violoncello, and double bass, but a great many arrangements have been made 
of it, including the " Andante and Variations," which organists deem to be admirably 
suited to the genius of their instrument. 

4. — March Funebre, composed on the death of a 

hero - - _ - _ Beethoven 

This sublime Funeral March is taken from the popular Pianoforte Sonata in 
A flat. The whole movement, with an extremely marked rythm, is a perfect work of 
art, and never fails to make a deep impression on those who hear it performed, 
especially when played on a grand organ, for which instrument it seems especially 
adapted. 

5. — Andante in F. From the first Grand Symphony 

in C - - - - - Beethoven 

Beethoven produced no less than nine Grand Symphonies, any one of which 
would have made the fame and reputation of a composer. This extract from the 
first symphony is music of the highest order, — melody, harmony, construction, 
phrasing, variety, power, and beauty, being everywhere manifest. 



LEEDS TOWN HALL. 275 

HOURS WITH THE GREAT COMPOSERS. 
Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdv. 

Born at Hamburg, 1809 ; died at Leipsic, 1847. 

I. — Overture (C Major, Op. 24) - - Mendelssohn 

Andante con moto, (3-4) Allegro vivace (C). 

This fine overture, composed for what the Germans term Ha'^motiie-musik, or a 
military band, is but seldom performed. The repertory of original music for this 
species of orchestra, though limited, contains some notable compositions by Spohr, 
Meyerbeer, and Beethoven, of high interest, which it is to be regretted our 
regimental bandmasters so rarely include in their programmes. 

2. — Lieder Ohne Worte " The Lovers' Duet " Mendelssohn 

Among the gems and treasures ot pianoforte music by the great masters there 
is no work — not even Beethoven's sublime sonatas — which has become more 
universally popular than Mendelssohn's ** Lieder Ohne Worte," or Songs without 
Words. In these exquisite musical poems, the mind of the artist is continually 
holding communion with some dear friend or lover, to whom he expresses his varied 
thoughts and feelings through the agency of divine music, and realising thereby the 
most refined and exquisite pleasure. 

3. — Organ Sonata in C Minor - - Mendelssohn 

Grave. — Adagio Espressivo. — Maestoso. — Fugue. 

After Bach, Mendelssohn justly ranks as the foremost composer of classical 
organ music. His sonatas are held in great esteem by all organists, and are to be 
heard at almost every organ recital where good music is performed. The present 
one opens with a sedate movement in the key of C Minor, v\(hich is followed by a 
beautiful and interesting Adagio. The concluding fugue is preceded by an Allegro 
movement, which brings out the full power of the instrument iij a majestic manner. 



Mendelssohn 



-j-.^rr^ D.,.^ c^i.T^.or^ " 1 would that my love" 
4— Two PART S0NGS(^ „ ^^^ ^^^^^ gj J^ „ 

Transcribed for the Organ. 

5. — Andante Con Moto " The Pilgrim's March '' Mendelssohn 

From the 4th (Italian) Symphony. 

The theme is an old choral, probably dating from early in the sixteenth 
century. It is treated with wonderful eloquence and skill ; given out by wood and 
strings alternately ; accompanied throughout by the even treading, solemnly 
monotonous short bass notes ; these at times supplemented by interwoven 
harmonies, from the soft velvet-like lower notes of the flutes ; and admirably set off 
by a beautiful episodical subject for the bass of soft toned wind instruments. 

6. — Andante in C, from the celebrated Violin 

Concerto ----- Mendelssohn 

7. — The Wedding March - - - Mendelssohn 

No words are required to describe the great delight which this grand piece of 
instrumental music has afforded to untold numbers of people, not only at weddings, 
but at instrumental performances of orchestral music, where the genius of the 
composer, who was only seventeen years of age when it was written, has been ever 
recognised by musicians and the public with pleasurable enthusiasm. 



276 ORGAN RECITAL PROGRAMMES, 

HOURS WITH THE GREAT COMPOSERS. 

Spohr. 

Dr. Louis Spohr was bom at Brunswick, 1784, and died at Cassel, 1859. His 
father was a physician, and his mother the daughter of a Lutheran Pastor He had 
the benefit of a fine education both musically and generally ; he spoke the French 
and English languages fluently, and was skilled in drawing. As a boy he distinguish- 
ed himself as a violinist and pianist ; indeed few masters have ever surpassed him in 
the former capacity, or equalled him for the number, elegance, and utility of his 
compositions for the violin. His works include almost every variety, from the Grand 
Symphony and the Oratorio to the simple song and dance tune. His famous work, 
** The last Judgment," was first made known in England at the Norwich Musical 
Festival in 1830. Its rich, original, luscious harmonies quite fiiscinated our native 
musicians, who in many instances, endeavoured to imitate Spohr's original manner, so 
that the term " Spohr-ish " soon became associated with many of the compositions 
which were produced at that and subsequent periods by English writers. I well 
remember being introduced to this great composer at the last Purcell commemoration 
day in Westminster Abbey, when he was accompanied by his wife (a most accomp- 
lished musician) and his nephew, Adolphe Hesse, the distinguished organist. Each 
had been listening most attentively to the fine compositions of our own Henry Purcell, 
and I noted how interested Spohr seemed to be in attending to the prolongation of the 
final notes of the choir in that vast vaulted building, whose lofty aisles seem to 
embrace the sounds as anxious to retain them. 

I. — Overture to the Opera " Jessonda" - Spohr 

In July, 1823, Spohr brought out *' Jessonda," which he had finished in the 
previous December, having commenced it while in Dresden, and planned the entire 
arrangement of the situations before he left Paris, where he accidentally read the 
French tragedy upon which it is founded. The overture is one of the most original 
and beautiful of all orchestral preludes, and has ever been a favourite with musicians, 
especially our first-class organists, who have, like the late Dr. Wesley and Mr. W. 
T. Best, often made a special feature of it in their programmes. The opening Adagio 
in E flat minor, with its striking bass and sustained passages for the wind instruments, 
seems to be particularly impressive and effective on the organ ; the brilliant Allegro y 
in the major key, is full of piquant melody, and rich, full harmonies. 

2. — Adagio in A flat, from the Notturno^ for wind 

instruments, Op. 34 . . . Spohr 

Compositions for wind instruments only were scarcely known before the time of 
Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven, each of whom contributed not a few charming 
works to this class of music. 

3. — Selection from the Oratorio " The Last 

Judgment." _ . - _ Spohr 

4. — Soprano Solo and Chorus, " Though all thy friends 

forsake thee " ; from the Oratorio, " Calvary " Spohr 

This beautiful movement has been adapted to the words " As pants the heart for 
cooling stream," and has become popular as an anthem. 

5. — Andantino, " Cradle Song," from the Grand 

Symphony, " The Power of Sound " - Spohr 

One of the most singular, and yet beautiful instrumental movements extant ; 
the peculiar rylhm, often different in one hand from that in the other ; the graceful 
melody ; and rich, varied harmonies, are all equally to be admired and enjoyed. 

6. — Selection from the Opera " Jessonda " - Spohr 

Including the chorus, '' Kalt and starr " (Cold and starry) ; the aria, ** Bald bin 
ich cin Geist geworden " (Soon shall I become a Spirit) ; and the finale, Wilde, 
ungeheure Schmerzen " (Strong, unmerited pains.) 



LEEDS TOWN HALL. 277 

HOURS WITH THE GREAT COMPOSERS. 

Weber. 

Carl Maria Von Weber, who was one of the greatest of musical geniuses, 
was born at Eutin, a small town in Holstein, in 1786, and died in London, at the 
hduse of Sir George Smart, in Great Portland Street, in 1826. From his early 
youth he displayed great aptitude for music, and studied with unremitting energy and 
success, first with Henschel, a .clever organist, and subsequently with the famous 
Abbe Vogler. It was with difficulty that these two clever masters were able to 
bring within the bounds of symmetry and order the wild imagination and exuberant 
fancy of the ardent, irrepressible musician, whose works were full of inventions, at 
once new and beautiful, as well as energy, pathos, and effect. The operas, Der 
F7-evschutz (the free shot, or the seven charmed bullets), Oberon^ Preciosa^ Euryanthe, 
and others testify to the marvellous dramatic power, fancy, and musicianship of 
Weber ; at the same time he is equally distinguished for his pianoforte works, 
which have rarely, if ever, been surpassed for their elegance, refinement, and force. 
The famous Concert- Stiick which Mendelssohn so much liked and played grandly, 
and the march therefrom is a conspicuous instance of his power as a composer of 
pianoforte music. Weber, like Mozart, was happy in his love and marriage — he 
possessed a treasure in his wife, who was always encouraging and helping him not a 
little, sometimes in copying out his manuscripts, but always taking care to be with 
him at his public performances, cheering and guarding him in all his artistic 
labours. 



I. — March in C Major, Op. 3 - - - Weber 

This march is extracted from the popular Book of Pianoforte Duets. — No. 5, 
Book I, arranged by W. T. Best. 

2. — Andante Espressivo, in B Flat - - Weber 

From the Trio for pianoforte, violin, and violoncello. — Op. 63. 

3. — Reminiscences of the Romantic Opera, " Oberon " Weber 

Including part of the overture, the chorus, " Light as Fairy Foot can fall," 
*' The Mermaid's Song," etc. 

4. — March in C Major . _ . . Weber 

Extracted from the celebrated Concert- Stiick for the pianoforte. 

5. — Reminiscences of the Romantic Opera " Der 

Freyschiitz" ----- Weber 

This selection includes part of the overture, the chorus " Victoria, Victoria ; " 
the air, ** Though clouds by Tempest;" the pastoral march and air, "Why good 
people, are you gazing t " the air, ** Through the Forest," and the celebrated chorus 
of *' Huntsmen," The opera of " Der Freyschiitz " or " The seven charmed 
bullets," is one of the most remarkable dramatic works ever produced. It was first 
performed on June i8th, 1821, and soon achieved a world-wide reputation, its 
popularity in London exceeded that of any other similar work. The beauty of the 
opening passage in the overture, especially the well-known part for four horns, is 
only equalled by the subsequent melodies and concerted pieces, those introduced on 
the present occasion being amongst the most popular. 



278 ORGAN RECITAL PROGRAMMES, 

HOURS WITH THE GREAT COMPOSERS. 

THE WESLEYS. 
Samuel Wesley, father of the well-known Dr. Wesley, was born at Bristol, 
1766. He was a man of great ability, and was at once a famous organist and com- 
poser of merit. It is mainly due to his activity, in conjunction with others, that this 
country became acquainted with the works of Sebastian Bach. He comix)sed several 
organ pieces, and many beautiful vocal ones. Amongst the latter being the prayer — 
" Father of light and life," and the madrigal " O ! bynge unto my roundelaie.'* He 
died in London, in October, 1837. 

I. — Introduction and Fugue in C Minor - Samuel Wesley 

No. 44. --Select Organ Pieces (Novelio). 

a Larghetto — C Major \ 

b Largo — E Minor > Samuel Wesley 

c Andantino and Fughetta — D Major ) 

From six movements for the organ. One of the latest of Samuel Wesley's 
publications. 

3. — Introduction and Fugue in G Major - Samuel Wesley 

These five compositions— composed expressly for the instrument upon which the 
elder Wesley (** Old Sam," as he used to be called by the organists when his clever 
son Samuel Sebastian began to display his talents) was so great a master— shows his 
solid and brilliant acquirements as a composer of organ music — and a kind of work 
he couid extemporise as well as he could write. 

Samuel Sebastian Wesley, son of the above, born in London in 1810, was 
reared, as it were, in an atmosphere of music, and whilst still very young made his 
mark as a composer of originality and vigour. He has left us a large and rich store 
of sacred music, anthems, services, etc. Amongst the best and widest known of 
which are his services in E and F (both of which were written for use at the Leeds 
Parish Church), and his anthems, **The Wilderness,'* and ** Blessed be the God and 
Father ; " he also composed several charming hymn tunes, one of which, Aurelia, has 
a deservedly world-wide popularity." As an extempore player on the organ he has 
certainly never been surpassed — if equalled. He died at Gloucester in 1876. 

4. — Andante in G — From the Second Set of Three Pieces for 
a Chamber Organ. Composed for and dedicated to 
Lady Acland. 

5. — Anthem, transcribed for the organ — " Blessed be the God 
and Father." 

This is one of the most popular of all Dr. Wesley's beautiful anthems, — the 
duet '*Love one another with a pure heart fervently" with its devotional refrain, 
" See that ye love one another " — being amongst his happiest inspirations. 

6. — Quartet — " And sorrow and sighing shall flee away ;" 
from the great anthem, "The wilderness and the 
solitary place." 

A tender and deeply pathetic strain, unequalled in the whole range of similar 
anthem music, and which, as well as the previous work, I copied out from Wesley's 
original MS., and first sang, when his pupil and a chorister in Exeter Cathedral, ever 
so many years ago. 

7.— Choral Song and Fugue in C Major — From the First Set 
of Three Organ Pieces dedicated to Lady Acland who was 
his pupil when Wesley was organist of Exeter Cathedral. 



LEEDS TOWN HALL. 279 

Popular Opera Composers and their Works. 

Rossini. 

There can be no doubt that the opera, as it is now presented to us, is of Italian 
origin, and comparatively of modern date, and is the immediate successor of the 
miracle-plays with music, as the oratorio is of the ancient mysteries. Before Rossini's 
time, many operas were produced, but only one of these is now remembered — 
Cimaroso Matrimonio Segretto. I shall therefore commence my illustrations of 
popular opera composers, with the famous Gioacchino Rossini, the " Swan of Pesaro," 
where he was born in 1792; and died in Paris, 1868. He was undoubtedly the 
most genial and most original representative of modern Italian opera. His barbiere 
di Seviglta (Barber of Seville), and William Tell^ contain an inexhaustible wealth of 
beautiful, fresh, * fiery, spontaneous, singing melody, that will never be surpassed. 
Rossini was the embodiment of wit, humour, and enjoyment. Even when seventy- 
six years of age, he was as cheerful as a youth of twenty, and always ready with a 
racy anecdote, or a genial bon mot. Rossini's operas being so numerous I purpose 
devoting two evenings to his chief works, and to-night I shall give selections from 
La Gazza Ladra, Cinder ella, Mosi^ and William Tell. 

I. — Overture to the Opera " La Gazza Ladra " - ' Rossini 

The opera from which this splendid overture is taken, was brought out at the 
Grand Scala Theatre, in Milan, in 181 7. One of Rossini's biographers says: — 
" The dignified martial character of the overture and the prodigious rolls of the 
drums, produced an immense effect." But the Allegro and indeed the whole work 
possesses that great charm of life, animation, and melody, which always exhilarates 
and delights.. 

2. — Cavatina Con Coro, " Non Pin Mesta," from 

the Opera " Cenerentola " - - - Rossini 

This work was produced in Rome, in 1817* and its performance made a great 
sensation ; Rossini being loaded with praises and musical glory on all sides. It was 
brought out in England a few years afterwards, at Covent Garden Theatre, under the 
title of " Cinderella, or the Eairy and Little Glass Slipper," Miss Paton (afterwards 
Mrs. Wood) taking the principal part, and singing this grand aria ** Non Piu Mesta," 
("Now with grief no longer bending") with unmeasured success and effect. 

3. — Melodia Drammatica, "La Separazione" - Rossini 

This is one of those beautiful detached love songs of which Rossini produced so 
many, and which singers admire so much for their sweet melody and graceful flowing 
accompaniment. 

4. — The Celebrated Prayer, "Dal tuo Stellato 

Soglio " (" To Thee, Great Lord '0 - - Rossim 

Yery few extracts from Italian operas have equalled this, from Rossini's 
famous ** Mose in Egitto " (Moses in Egypt), and which has not been inaptly termed 
a ** Religious Opera ;" indeed, so solemn and devotional are its airs, concerted 
pieces, and choruses, that Sir Michael Costa had a new libretto made for it, and it 
was performed with great success by the Sacred Harmonic Society in Exeter Hall 
about ten years ago. 

Selections from the Grand Opera, " William Tell " Rossini 

5. — Quintetto E Coro, " Sole che ai mondo la vita Dai " 

6. — Soprano Regit, " Eccomi Sola Elfin " and Aria 
" Selva Opaco." 

7. — Tenor Song and Chorus, " Corriam e Vittoria e Morte." 

8. — The Overture "Christiana." 



28o ORGAN RECITAL PROGRAMMES, 

POPULAR OPERA COMPOSERS. 

Bellini. 

ViNCENZO Bellini was bom in Sicily, in 1801, and died in Paris, in 1835. At a 
very tender age he evinced great aptitude for music, and his talent was brought under 
the notice of the Uuke de Noji, president of the Music College, at Naples, through 
whose interest he was admitted a free student in that institution. While still a pupil, 
in 1825, he produced several operas with more or less success ; but it was not until 
he went to Milan, in 1827, that he achieved a great musical victory by the production 
of his opera ** II Pirata," the fine overture to which I shall play as my first selection 
this evening.. The success of this opera made Bellini famous, and it was brought out 
in London, in 1830. The greatest of his triumphs, however, were reserved for the 
two operas, ** Norma," and * * La Sonnambula, " than which no similar works ever 
became more popular. It has been truly said that Bellini's music is distinguished 
by a tender langour, in accordance with the almos.t feminine gentleness of his 
character. The want of development, which is the weakness of his earlier works, 
was gradually giving way before his ripening experience ; and in his later productions 
there is shown a power of continuity and construction that would have yielded still 
higher results had he not been cut off when he was but approaching maturity. 



I.— Overture to the Opera " II Pirata" - - Bellini 

I have alluded to this work in my introductory remarks above. 

Selection from the Opera " La Sonnambula " - Bellifii 

2. — Chorus " Vive ! Amina ! " interrupted by a solo from 
Lisa, Amina's rival. 

3. — Cavatina (Amina) with Chorus, "O love for me, while 
this heart its joy revealing." 

4.— Cavatina for Bass (The Count Rodolpko)'' As I v\tw 
these scenes so charming." 

5. — Chorus " When dusky nightfall." 

6. — The celebrated Scena sung by Elvino (Hero) " All 
is lost now," and the air " Still so gently o'er me stealing.'' 



Selection from the romantic Opera " Norma, the Druid 
Priestess " . . _ Bellini 

I. — Introduction and March of Druid Priests. 

2. — Chorus " Norma comes." 

3.— The Celebrated Cavatina (sung by Norma) with 
Chorus, " Casta Diva." 

4.— Duetto "Deh! Conte"— 

This beautiful Duet, sung by Norma and Adalgisi^ is so well known as to need 
no comment. 






LEEDS TOWN HALL. 28 1 

HOMAGE A COSTA. 
Sir Michael Costa— Born, 1810; died, 1884. 

By the death of Sir Michael Costa the musical world has been deprived olf a 
prominent and remarkable person^e. He has died full of honours, as of years, 
regretted by all, from the Sovereign to the humblest amateur of the art. The life 
story of Sir Michael Costa is one from which much might be learned. Not only 
will his name go down to posterity as the composer of two fine oratorios, Eli and 
Naamarty but he will never be forgotten in Great Britain as the first conductor who 
brought an English orchestra into a condition of order and discipline. He enforced 
punctuality, attention, and seriousness with a hand of iron. Moreover, his dignified 
and somewhat austere manner, together with a sharp, short, and decisive method of 
command, compelled more or less of the respect that comes of wholesome fear. 
Personally, I have lost a dear, respected, true friend. Excepting when in command 
of his musical forces, when he recognised no friend — nothing but duty and obedience 
— he was ever kind, hospitable, and generous, and many a happy hour have I spent 
at his grand house in Eccleston Square. When ** off duty," he was as fond of fun 
and anecdote as the liveliest amongst us ; in fact, he courted cheerfulness and 
bonhommie. Nothing pleased him better than a racy Yorkshire story, and when he 
did not quite understand the meaning of our lingo and localism, he would not be 
satisfied until it was clearly explained, and then he would indulge in a hearty 
laughter as he caught the point of the joke. We all know how much good he 
effected for the Musical Festivals in Leeds. The name of Sir Michael Costa will 
live in local history as long as the town lasts. 

I. — Masonic Processional March, composed for 

the Installation of H.R.H. the Prince of Wales 

as Grand Master of England and WaJes - Costa 

2. — Date Sonitum ----- Costa 

3. — Selection from the Oratorio " Naaman," 
including the air sung by Adelina Patti ; and 
the famous Grand Triumphal March in E flat Costa 

4. — ROMANZA for Tenor or Soprano - - Costa 

Voice : " Vien di Quest' elci all' ombra." 

This is one of those elegant effusions which Costa frequently gave to the world, 
in which there was generally a strong Rossinian flavour. 

5. — Selection from the Serenata, " The Dream " Costa 

1. — Instrumental Introduction. 

2. — Soprano Air, '• O, tell me gentle orb of night ! " 

3. — Chorus of Serenaders: '* Lady, arise ! look forth and see 

The chaplet we have twin'd for thee." 
The Libretto of *' The Dream " was written by Mr. Wm. Bartholomew, and 
set to music by Sir Michael Costa, on the occasion of the marriage of Her Highness 
the Princess Royal of England with his Royal Highness Prince Frederick William of 
Prussia. The Princess was a pupil of Sir Michael's, and he used for many years to 
pay Her Royal Highness an annual visit to Berlin, where he was always a welcome 
guest. 

6. — Reminiscences of the Oratorio " Eli," including 
the Overture, the celebrated Tenor Song, with 
Chorus, " Philistines, hark ! " the beautiful 
" Evening Prayer " of Samuel, and the ever- 
spirited, melodious, and popular March of 
Priests ------ Costa 



282 ORGAN RECITAL PROGRAMMES, 

Second Selection from Gounod's "Mors et Vita," etc. 

It is my intention to give three copious selections in consecutive weeks of the 
last great work — Mors et Vita — (Death and Life) by the distinguished French 
composer, Charles Gounod, produced with great success at the recent Birmingham 
Musical Festival. It would be impossible to give any adequate idea (especially 
in a transcription for the organ) of the varied beauty and splendour of this 
astonishing composition in one selection, and I shall therefore follow the composer^s 
plan, and divide the selections into the three parts — Mors— Judicium — and Vita. 

The first programme was taken from the remarkable and sometimes terrible 
conception of the Poet-Musician in representing ** the tears which death causes us to 
shed here below, and the hope of a better life *' — and contained strange and 
beautiful melodies and harmonies intermixed, brought forth with such consummate 
skill as only a master like Gounod could command, it was heard with deep interest 
from beginning to end ; and I hope those who heard the first part, will be able 
to listen to the last — so that some idea of this devoted Catholic to the ritual of 
his ancient church — (the work is dedicated to. his Holiness, Pope Leo XIII.) — and 
of his wonderful musical genius may be recognised and duly appreciated. 



Part Second -(Judicium.) 

2 — Preludio— Somnus Mortuorum - (The Sleep of Death) 
Adagio — E major. 

3. — "TuBAE, AD Ultimum Judicum " - - A Minor 

4.— Resurrectio Mortuorum'' . . . D Minor 

These three orchestral movements are perfectly startling in their unearthly 
melody and harmony, and describe the awakening of the dead at the terrifying call 
of the angelic trumpets, of which St. Paul speaks in one of his Epistles to the 
Corinthians. 

S.— Coro, " Sedente in Throno " - - G Flat Major 

6. — Judicium Electorum - - *' Et congregabuntur " 

Baritone Solo, then Soprani and Chorus. 

7. — CORALE - - - - " In memori^ etern^ " 

8.— Judicium Rejectaneorum - " Tunc dicet his " 

This selection comprises the whole of the second part of Mors et Vita, and 
which the composer has given under the general title — ^Judicium. 

9. — Organ Solo, Grand Final Chorus from the 
Oratorio, The Mount of Olives, — " Hallelujah 
to the Father " - - - - - - Beethoven 

The fine work from which this sublime *•' Hallelujah " is taken, was performed 
in its entirety at a former Leeds Musical Festival, with a power, tone, and grandeur 
which will never be forgotten by those who were privileged to be present, either as 
listeners or performers. Although the Oratorio illustrated the early manner of the 
master, when he was yet under the influence of his great contemporaries, the giant's 
strength is often revealed, and everywhere we are conscious of the presence of beauty. 



LEEDS TOWN HALL. 283 

A SELECTION OF SCOTCH MUSIC. 

Extract from my Lecture on National Ballad Music. 

" The mere term " Scotch Ballads * awakens in the minds of all who are capable 
of appreciating exquisite poetry and beautiful music, feelings of reverence and delight. 
No matter what music has gone before in the performance of any miscellaneous 
programme, the moment a favourite Scotch melody is heard, both musical and un- 
musical people seem to feel a genuine thiill of pleasure. My own experience confirms 
this observation in a remarkable degree. On many occasions when I have had to 
play to large masses of people, either on the graiid organ in the Town Hall, Leeds, 
or in many other noble buildings, I have found that should the interest in other 
music flag, the moment I commenced to play such tunes as * The land of the leal,* — 
* Scots wha hae,* — * Bonnie Doon,* — *Auld lang syne,* — or a score of other 
familiar strains, the piece is sure to be received with such unmistakable enthusiasm, 
that I am compelled to return to my seat and play again some of the heart -stirring 
strains of Bonnie Scotland." 

I. — Overture, " La Dame Blanche " - - Boildieu 

This brilliant piece of melodious orchestral scoring, contains some charming 
reminiscences of a favourite Scotch melody. 

2. — Popular airs of Scotland, including " Roslin 
Castle," " The land of the leal," " Here's a 
health to them that's awa," and " The boatie 
rows " - Adapted for the organ by Wm, Spark 

3. — Selections from the celebrated Scotch Sym- 
phony, composed for full orchestra, transcribed 
for the organ . - . Mendelssohn 

ANDANTE CON MOTO, A Minor. 
ALLEGRO UN POCO AGITATO, A Minor. 

VIVACE NON TROPPO, F Major. 

ADAGIO MOLTO, A Mtnor. 

ALLEGRO VIVACE, A Minor and Major. 

Mendelssohn, like many other great artists, was a great admirer of Scotland, 
and composed some of his most celebrated works — such as the Overture to the 
Hebrides^ and this Scotch symphony, after having paid autumn visits to enjoy and 
benefit from the sublime and suggestive beauties of old Scotia. 

4. — Fantasia on Scotch airs, introducing "Saw 
ye my Father," " The Bush aboon Traquar," 
" We're Noddin," " O Logie o' Buchan," and 
'' Scotch wha hae " - - - W. Kuke 

This is a piece composed by Mr. Kuhe, the eminent pianist, for the pianoforte, 
but is in many respects so well adapted to the organ, that I am sure the lovely 
melodies brought out will be most acceptable to the audience. 

5. — Overture to the Opera " Guy Mannering " - Bishop 

6. — Duet, " O wert thou in the cauld blast, on yonder lea, 

My plaide to the angry airt, I'd shelter thee." 

Mendelssohn 
Finale.— Organ Piece, introducing "Bonnie Doon," 

" Caller Herrin," and " Auld Lang Syne." Wm. Spark 

Played by the composer last year with much success in Glasgow, Edinburgh, 
Ayr, Stirling, etc. 



284 ORGAN RECITAL PROGRAMMES, 

SELECTION FROM THE WORKS OF LEFEBURE 

WELY. 
Born in Paris, 1817 ; died 1870. 

The organ music of the modem French school first attracted attention in this 
country about twenty years ago, by the Offertoires of Mons. Lef6bure Wely, who 
was at that time the popular organist at the church of the Madeline, in Paris. Not 
only by his organ compositions, but by his brilliant playing, his happy, genial 
disposition, and his passionate love for his art, he became a favourite with many, 
though opposed by others in his own profession who did not understand him, and, 
therefore, frequently misrepresented him. Of all his charming organ pieces there is 
none perhaps more popular, or more full of life, variety, and melody, than this 
brilliant Offertoire in F Major, and which the writer of these lines often heard the 
brilliant French organist perform on his own organ in Paris. 

I. — Grand Offertoire in F Major - Lef^bure Wely 

2. — Two Andantes - - . - Lef^bure Wdy 

(a) Andante in E flat. 

(b) Andante " The Hymn of Nuns." 

The second of these organ pieces, to which I gave the suggestive title ** The 
Hymn of Nuns " a long time since, has been highly popular, and has been a great 
favourite with organists for many years. 

3.— Offertoire in A - - - Lef^bure Wely 

This is one of the first set of six Cfftrtoires which were made known in London 
by Dr. William Rae (now of Newcastle), who brilliantly peHbrmed, and afterwards 
edited them, for Messrs. Ashdown and Parry. 

4. — March in C major - - - Lefibure WMy 

There is something extremely original, piquant, and somewhat fantastic in this 
spirited march ; but it is the work of a master, and characteristic of his style. 

5.— Nocturne in F major - - - Lef^bure Wdy 

Among the most popular pianoforte pieces of the day may be mentioned 
Lefebure's '* Les cloches du Monastere," without which no young lady's portfolio 
would seem to be complete. The bells, and chimes of course, play an important 
part in this pretty " drawing room effusion." 

6. — Fantasia Pastorale in G major - LefSure Wdy 

The song and dance of the shepherds are interrupted by the distant storm, 
which increases and becomes furious in its intensity. A calm follows, the devotional 
hymn being interrupted by the songs of cuckoos, nightingales, etc. 

7.— Grand Offertoire in G - - Lef^bure Wdy 

Many organists regard this Offertoire as the best and most effective of all. It is 
certainly a brilliant charming work, and will form, I hope, a fitting finale to our 
selection this evening. 



LEEDS TOWN HALL. 285 



SELECTION FROM THE ORATORIO, 
" REDEMPTION " - Gounod, 



a. Instrumental Introduction — The CREATION. 

" And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the 
waters." 

b. The Promise of Redemption. 

Prelude and Choral — " The earth is My possession." 

c. Quartet and Chorus — ** Beside the Cross remaining." 

d. Air and Chorus — " While my watch I am keeping." 

e. The March to Calvary. 

The opening orchestral Prelude is similar in thought and conception to Haydn*s 
famous /Representation of Chaos ; and Gounod has here shown by the use of strange, 
weird harmonies, his power, genius, and peculiarities. In The Promise of 
Redemption we have the first introduction of the Liet-motive which Gounod 
frequently introduces throughout the Oratorio, when Jesus appears ; and then comes 
the fine Chorale, ** The earth is My possession." The Quartet and Chorus " Beside 
the Cross remaining" is a most expressive piece -of pathetic, devotional music ; and 
this is followed by the beautiful air (sung by Mdme. Patey), found in Pergolesi's 
.S^rtto i^tz/tfr, ** While my watch I am keeping." This first selection ends with 
the inspiriting number ** The March to Calvary." The Oratorio consists of three 
divisions — the Passion, Resurrectioa, and Ascension, and I purpose giving 
selections from each on three successive Saturdays. Having attended the 
Birmingham Musical Festival, and listened to this extraordinary work performed 
under the personal direction of its gifted composer, I shall be the better able to 
realise and interpret its correct rendering, though it is somewhat difficult of 
accomplishment on the Organ Solus, seeing that Gounod has scored the work so 
beautifully and elaborately for a full orchestra. To estimate the pecuniary value set 
on this work, it may here be mentioned that the famous Publishers, Messrs. Novello 
and Co., have paid no less a sum than ;^4,ooo for the copyright. 



286 ORGAN RECITAL PROGRAMMES. 



SPECIAL "IN MEMORIAM" PERFORMANCES 

OF APPROPRIATE 

VOCAL AND INSTRUMENTAL SELECTIONS. 



FUNERAL OF H.R.H. PRINCE LEOPOLD, 
DUKE OF ALBANY, K.G., Etc. 



The announcement of the death of H. R.H. the Duke of Albany came upon the 
public of Leeds like a thunderbolt. The recent visit of the illustrious Prince to 
our town will be in the lively recollection of all, rich and poor. His reception 
at the great Musical Festival, the deep interest he took therein as President, 
and his well-known love of, and admiration for the Art of Music, are circumstances 
which only add to the poignant grief which must be felt in the breasts of all Leeds 
citizens at the loss the whole country has sustained by his untimely death. 
Remembering that the Duchess of Albany was also present at the Festival, aiding 
and gracing with her affable demeanour the brightness and success of the great 
gathering, this circumstance adds more deeply to the desire of all to express their 
keen sympathy with Her Royal Highness in the loss she has sustained ; a sympathy, 
too, which is extended in the highest degree to Her Most Gracious Majesty, our 
beloved Queen. 



287 



A WEEK IN THE ISLE OF MAN. 

No. I. 

Although I have been for many years within easy travelling 
distance of the Isle of Man, I have never visited this charming, 
picturesque island until recently, and then for the short space of 
" one week only," as the showman says. For a long time I had 
been dissuaded by my best guide and counsellor to undertake 
what had been described to me, from bitter experience, as " a 
stormy ship tossed passage from Barrow to Douglas, or vice 
versdy' and that I should certainly suffer grievously from the 
hateful mal de nier. Notwithstanding these gloomy forebodings, 

I ventured, on the 22nd ult., to take the fast Midland train at 

I I a.m. for Barrow, which was reached in the short space of 
two and a half hours, the passengers for Douglas being im- 
mediately ushered on board the fine steamer, " Mona's Queen," 
where I was introduced to the courteous captain (I forget his 
Scotch name), whose promise of a pleasant sail across the 
briny, sans sickness, or even squeamishness, was quite fulfilled, 
and in less than three hours we were in the beautiful Douglas 
Bay, in view of the pretty town, with its fine pier, swarms 
of various crafts, long rows of white-looking houses, and a 
promenade of considerable length and amplitude. This prospect 
alone is worth five hours' travelling from Leeds to see. 

Soon I was ensconced in the snug parlour of my hospitable 
host and hostess (Mr. and Mrs. Lofthouse), and after partaking 
of a most refreshing tea, my vigorous host trotted me out to 
witness the evening sights and amusements. First of all, we 
visited a huge building, yclept Derby Castle, situated a short 
distance from the end of the promenade, in a lovely situation, 
overlooking the town and bay. The large hall, lighted with 
incandescent electric lamps, etc., was filled with a motley throng 
of dancers of all sizes, ages, and status, who vigorously tripped 
it "on the light fantastic toe," to the evident delight and 
satisfaction of themselves, whatever else it might have been to 
the spectators and observers. There was an excellent orchestra 
of about twenty-five performers, including many experienced 
members of Halle's and De Jong's Manchester bands — the chiefs 



288 A WEEK IN THE ISLE OF MAN. 

being all Gaggs — conductor, Mr. Oliver Gaggs ; leader, 
J. W. Gaggs ; and pianist, Thalberg Gaggs. Intersecting the 
dance programme, capital vocal selections were introduced by 
Mr. G. W. Nicholson and Miss Rhoda Billington, both of Leeds. 

From this attractive salon de danse^ my guide hurried me on 
to Falcon Cliff, to witness a similar scene in a large hall, 
capable of accommodating nearly two thousand dancers. The 
steep ascent to this place is reached by many hundred steps 
(there is a lift which was constantly filled by an urgent crowd), 
and when we had climbed about half way we found (much to 
my relief) some rustic seats, upon which we rested for a while. 
Here, also, stopped many Lancashire and Yorkshire lads and 
lasses, whose sweet and elegant utterances increased my 
knowledge of the vernacular considerably, but which I shall not 
enter among my elegant extracts. A capital orchestral band of 
twenty-six performers — conducted by Mr. Charles Reynolds, led 
by John Daley, and assisted by John Meghie — added greatly 
to the exuberance of the terpsichoreans, who also, in turn, with 
many hundreds of lookers-on, seemed deeply impressed with 
the spasmodic efforts of a popular " chorus again, boys" comic 
singer, applauding and encoring ad libitum. 

Proceeding from the classic regions of Falcon Cliff, we 
advance close by to the Castle Mona Palace, a recently-erected 
music-hall, calculated to seat five thousand persons! Here, 
again, there was an excellent band, consisting, I think, of about 
thirty executants, conducted by Mr. Fred. Vetter, led by 
Mr. Sivori Flexen, and pianoed by Mr. Walter Moore. When 
1 entered there was an enormous audience crowding round the 
orchestra to listen to the warblings and interpolated utterances 
of a favourite humourist, who displayed great versatility in 
assuming a feminine garb, and in the delivery of song, verse, 
talk, and peculiar action, which evoked wild enthusiasm and 
shouts of " Hangcore ! Hangcore ! " Beyond this comic side 
of the picture, the directors have given some splendid Sunday 
oratorios, with excellent principals (including the accomplished 
soprano, Madame Laura Smart), their own band, and a chorus 
obtained from the Manchester Choral Societies. Messiah^ 
Elijah, and the Stabat Mater have already been given in the 
presence of 4,000 listeners, who were charmed, and I have no 
doubt much edified, with the sublime strains of the great masters 
of music — music of which Sydney Smith says that when " the 
beatings and the breathings once reach the heart, and set it 
moving with all its streams of life, the mind bounds from grief 
to joy, from joy to grief, without effort or pang, and seems to 



CASTLE MONA HALL. 289 

derive its keenest pleasure from the quick vicissitude of passion 
to which it is exposed." What is wanted at the Palace is a 
suitable organ, one specially designed by some experienced 
organist, with scales, stops, and wind-pressure, calculated to fill 
the building and mix well with the band. In such an instance, 
the accomplished organist should be to the organ builder what 
the architect is to the contractor of a public building. With 
this visit to the Castle Mona Hall, my first day^s pleasure was 
finished, and it very nearly finished me too, for I was tired and 
glad to lay my head down to rest, and express my gratitude to 
the All- Wise for permitting me once more to enjoy the " soft 
dews of kindly sleep.'' 

Friday, the 23rd, was spent chiefly in visiting several interest- 
ing places in the immediate neighbourhood of Douglas — the 
most notable being Douglas Head — from which promontory 
some of the grandest ocean views in Great Britain are seen, 
admired, and enjoyed. The day was generally fine, with 
alternate gleams of sunshine, and gentle, refreshing showers of 
rain My friend and guide, being well acquainted with every 
nook and corner, was delightfully communicative, directing my 
attention to every point of interest in the ever-varying scene — 
the height, formation, and rugged grandeur of the rocks below ; 
the zigzag paths on the mountain side — the grand wave -rolling 
Irish Sea in front, and even a rough-headed, fiery looking young 
artist who, with his fair attendant, was sketching (or pretended 
to be) in a secluded spot round a detached rock. The light- 
house, built on the stern cliff rocks, looks most imposing in its 
robe of white and its revolving light — often seen by the tempest- 
tossed sailors on a stormy night off that deep sea coast. 
Hearing some church bells ringing, I was reminded of Whittier's 
beautiful lines in his poem, " The Tent on the Beach " : — 

*•' Whence sometimes when the wind was light, 

And dull the thunder on the beach, 
They heard the bells of morn and night 

Swing miles away their silver speech. 
Above low scarp and turf-grown wall 
They saw the fort flag rise and fall ; 
And the first star to signal twilight's hour, 
The lamp fire glitter down from the tall lighthouse, tower." 

Winding our way up the hill-side, we soon reached the 
hostelry which stands prominently on the top thereof. Here 
we refresh the inner man with a glass of ginger-ale (of course 
there was a slight dash of " something in it," just to modify the 
sharpness of the effervescence), and hearing some fine-voiced 
vocalist letting on stoutly with an excellent rendering of " Rage, 

T 



290 A WEEK IN THE ISLE OF MAN. 

thou angry storm," from Benedict's opera, The Gipsy's Warning^, 
I proceeded to the room, which was filled with men and women 
listening to the outpourings of the vocal hero, who was ably 
accompanied by an unknown volunteer pianist. Feeling sure, 
after looking about, that no one there knew me, I went up to 
the vocalist and said, " Thank you very much for singing so 
admirably that fine song of Benedict's." 

In a moment, from different parts of the room, at least half- 
a-dozen fellows held out their hands to shake mine, which one 
of the hilarious party did as if he thought he was working at a 
pump-handle. 

" Have a drain. Doctor, and how are you ? " 

" Well," said I, " if I accept all your proffered hospitality, I 
should soon be toppling over the cliff when I get outside, and 
then the sweet wishes of some of my dear friends in Leeds 
would be gratified ; but I must decline, thank you, for I don't 
mean to conform to their requirements, just at present, if I can 
help it." This excited some laughter, and I was let off, and 
departed as quickly as I could. Descending towards the town 
by a new diverse path, from which at every turn we could over- 
look the harbour, pier, and shipping, we came up to a little 
shanty where we were strongly invited to taste some real Manx 
oysters. After opening two (which I found very good) the 
bivalve man presented another of a different sort ("blue-points," 
I think, he said), which I hastily swallowed, unthinkingly, and 
as quickly returned. " This reminds me," I remarked to my 
friend, "of the old con. What is the difference between a good 
oyster and a bad one ? " " Don't know." " Well, one's a native^ 
and the other's a settler I " After that, we quickly got home to 
dinner, and the rest of my second day was spent in replying to 
a bundle of letters which had been sent to me from " the other 
side," as the Manx folks say. 

On Saturday, the 24th ult, after finishing my correspondence 
— (Oh ! how I wish I could follow the orders of the G.O.M., 
and refuse to receive or read letters when away for a holiday !) 
— I had the pleasure to drive, in a well-appointed carriage and 
pair of sturdy brown cob horses, two charming young ladies, and 
a most attentive young gentleman, to Laxey Bay, a lovely inlet, 
with a Swiss kind of village above it. All along the road, a 
distance of about eight miles, the scenery is delightful ; and this 
was doubly enhanced by the pleasant conversation of the 
ladies, and the wit and anecdotal power of the gentleman. 
Arrived at Laxey, we " put up " at the Commercial Hotel, an 
excellent hostelry, where we were well entertained at luncheon. 



J. W. TURNER. 291 

prior to our visiting the great Water Wheel (said to be the 
largest in the world), the gardens, and other objects of interest 
in this " sweet little spot by the side of the sea." The village 
rejoices in two or three hotels, and several well-appointed shops, 
which are chiefly supported by the miners from the adjacent 
famous lead and silver mines of Laxey. 

Whilst enjoying my cigarette outside the hotel, and gazing on 
the craft (chiefly herring boats) sailing away in the sunlight of 
a fine day in the beautiful bay, a hand was laid on my shoulder, 
and, on turning round, surprise and pleasure overcame me on 
beholding my old friends, Dr. Taylor, of Bradford, Alderman 
Hill (ex-Mayor), and Captain Moore, O.H.M.S. After a 
pleasant confab, I accepted their invitation to lunch at the 
Queen's Hotel, in Ramsey, where they were staying, for the 
following Monday, and of which more anon. 

The return drive home to Douglas was even more delightful 
than the journey out. We were all invigorated by the bracing 
ozone, the ever varying scenes, and the delightful view of 
Douglas and the Bay, as we descended the hill. Thus ended 
my third day in the bonny island. 



No. n. 

I OMITTED to say in my last letter that on Saturday evening I 
paid a visit, at the invitation of my old friend, Mr. J. W. Turner, 
to the well-appointed Grand Theatre, in Victoria Street, where, 
with some friends, I greatly enjoyed, in a private box, an 
admirable performance of Benedict's beautiful opera, The Lily 
of Killarney^ the lovely music in which is not surpassed by any 
English dramatic work of the present century. The Colleen 
Bawn, and the other principal characters, were altogether well 
represented by the efficient company ; but by far the most 
artistic and meritorious of the artists was Mr. Turner himself, 
whose impersonation of Myles-na-Coppaleen left nothing to be 
desired, his charming tenor voice and refined singing being 
enthusiastically (and deservedly) applauded by a large audience. 
My fourth day in the island was chiefly devoted to matters 
ecclesiastical. On the 2Sth ult, being the loth Sunday after 
Trinity, we went by train from Douglas to Peel, and attended 
the morning service (or " Matins," as the Ritualists prefer to call 
it) in the fine Church of St. German, built in the Early English 
style, with a handsome spire, and calculated to seat nearly a 



i 



292 A WEEK IN THE ISLE OF MAN. 

thousand persons. It was consecrated and opened in 1884 by the 
Archbishop of York (Dr. Thomson). The sixteen coloured 
windows, representing scenes in the Life of Christ, give " a dim 
religious light " to the spacious edifice, whilst the choir stalls in 
the chancel afford ample room for a surpliced choir of men and 
boys, numbering about forty singers. There is also the 
attraction and advantage of a peal of light sweet bells, and a 
fine three-manual organ, built by Brindley and Foster, of 
Sheffield, at which Miss Ward, a favourite teacher of music 
in Douglas, presides with credit to herself and honour to the 
church. The psalms and canticles were those in the now 
generally used " Cathedral Psalter ;" the hymns from "Ancient 
and Modern ; " and the versicles and pieces were the time- 
honoured and never-to-be-surpassed work of " Old Tallis ; " 
the priest and choir discharging their functions with becoming 
accuracy and devotional effect. On the invitation of the fair 
organist, I played the last hymn and out-going voluntaries, 
concluding with Beethoven's ever-glorious " Hallelujah to the 
Father," from The Mount of Olives, The day following being 
the anniversary of the opening of the church, the vicar cordially 
asked me to preside at the organ on the interesting occasion, 
but circumstances prevented me from rendering the assistance 
which I hope to ^w^ on some future occasion. I may here 
mention that after I had finished playing, my friend and old 
pupil, Mr. W. Marsden, organist of the Parish Church, Batley, 
went to the organ, and gave an excellent rendering of 
Mendelssohn's second organ sonata in C minor. 

At the termination of the service, the weather being 
beautifully fine, we strolled down to the Marine Parade, and 
after admiring the grandeur of the historically farhous Castle, 
which stands on the rocky islet of St. Patrick — and to which so 
much of Sir Walter Scotf s novel " Peveril of the Peak " refers 
— we paid a brief visit to the Creg Malin Hotel, a splendid, 
comfortable house, where the cheerful, attractive manageress 
showed us the various well-appointed rooms, from most of 
which there is a magnificent panoramic view of sea, rocks, castle, 
and headland. Visitors will find this a delightful spot. 

In the evening I presided at the organ in St. Thomas's, the 
largest and finest Episcopal church in Douglas. One of the 
local historians records : — " It was erected in 1849, from designs 
by Ewan Christian, Esq., and is in the Early English style of 
architecture. The interior, seen from the small gallery at the 
end of the church, is very imposing. The organ, a sweet and 
powerful instrument, was built by Hill and Son, of London, 



ST. Thomas's, douglas. 293 

from the designs of Mr. W. T. Best. It cost j^'Sso, but has only- 
two manuals, and about twenty- five stops. The bells, eight in 
number, were presented to the church by the Rev. Richard 
Cattley, M.A., and his wife. There are 1,000 sittings in the 
church, 500 of which are free. The tower clock is the gift of 
W.Lauder, Esq. The services are choral, performed by a mixed 
choir. The purple-coloured limestone jnasonry forming the 
quoins of the buttresses and the dressings of the windows and 
doorways, was brought from Port St. Mary, near Castletown." 

Mr. Mylvae, an excellent amateur, is the honorary organist 
and choirmaster,- and Mr. Poulter, the chief of the town's band, 
is his able deputy. It was a matter of pleasant surprise to me 
to find that the anthem was one of my own earlier works—" All 
we like sheep have gone astray " — which is very frequently used 
"in quires and places where they sing," and is especially popular 
in Lancashire and in Australia. The choir consists of about 
thirty members — men, women, and boys — and although they 
sang extremely well (especially in my anthem) throughout the 
service, at the same time 1 should have preferred a surpliced 
choir, supplemented by female soprani and contralti^ with suitable 
headgear (cap) and distinctive dress. Why not ? Scripture 
saith, "Young men and maidens^ old men and children, praise ye 
the name of the Lord." On this vexed and much discussed 
question a somewhat curious letter appeared in the Daily 
Telegraph the other day, which I append, though it will probably 
raise a smile : — " SiK, — I think that you have undoubtedly 
touched the right chord on this question, and I should like to 
endorse the remarks of * Cassandra.' By all means let us have a 
choir of young ladies ; they would be an immense attraction, and 
eventually be the removal of that reproach mentioned by a 
Christian paper recently, that there was at least half a million 
males in South London alone indifferent as to church ceremonies, 
etc. Thousands of them would, no doubt, thereby be attracted 
into the sacred buildings, and an additional zest to the proceed- 
ings also would result from the monthly practice of a lady in 
the pulpit. I shall certainly, on this question, vote for the ladies. 
With * Cassandra,' I think that the men have had the monopoly 
long enough. — Yours, etc., THOMAS May." There was a 
crowded congregation, and a large offertory — the latter always 
being an important matter with the authorities clerical and 
lay. Thus ended my fourth day. 

With Monday came an exceedingly pleasant time, which I 
shall not easily forget. Starting from Douglas Pier in a little 
pleasure-trip steamer, we sailed pleasantly along close to the 



294 A WEEK IN THE ISLE OF MAN. 

" Strangely-twisted and contorted rocks," on a lovely summer's 
day, passing Laxey Bay and other points of picturesque interest, 
until we reached the beautiful Bay of Ramsey itself, where, on 
the pierhead, ready to meet and welcome me, I saw the cheery 
faces of my Bradford friends to whom I alluded in my last. 
But before going further, I must mention two compagnons de 
voyage, who, knowing many mutual friends (celebrities of the 
past and present), as well as every point of interest on the coast, 
afforded me great pleasure and advantage during this very 
pleasant little trip to Ramsey ; I allude to the Collector of 
Customs, Mr. A. Riddell (one of the Reserve Navy captains) 
and his amiable, accomplished wife, Mrs. Riddell, of whom 
more anon. 

When landed on the Pier, my friends showed me the sights 
and doings of Ramsey, especially halting to hear the capital 
little band (supplied, I believe, by the famous De Jong, of 
Manchester) in front of the Municipal Buildings, and thence to 
see the beautiful, ever-flowing gigantic Fuschia, with its 
pendulous red flowers, which has grown and flourished for many 
years in a small garden belonging to a cottage in North Road, 
towards the sand hills. 

This, and other appetising exercises being completed, we 
repaired to the Queen's Hotel for luncheon, at one o'clock ; but 
it was a dinner to all intents and purposes. The soup, fish, 
entrees, and grouse, were not to be despised, leaving alone the 
excellent light wines, of which, for conscience sake, we took but 
little, remembering the Scriptural injunction, " Take a little wine 
for thy stomach's sake." The walk up the hill with my dear old 
friend, Dr. Taylor, invigorated our frames, and elevated the 
spirits. I recall Contarini Fleming's outpourings anent the 
mountain air. Here they are, and none of you, dear readers, 
will be the worse for reading and pondering over them : — 

" There is something magical in the mountain air. There my 
heart is light, my spirits cheerful, everything exhilarating ; 
there I am in every respect a different being from what I am in 
the lowlands. I cannot even speak ; I dissolve into a delicious 
reverie, in which everything occurs to me without effort. What- 
ever passes before me gives birth in my mind to a new character, 
a new image, a new train of fancies. I sing, I shout, I compose 
aloud, but without premeditation, without any attempt to guide 
m}' imagination by my reason. How often, after journeying- 
along the wild muletrack — how often, on a sunny day, have I 
suddenly thrown myself upon the turf, revelled in my existence, 
and then as hastily jumped up and raised the wild birds with a 



A SAIL ROUND THE ISLAND. 295 

wilder scream ! I think that these involuntary bursts must have 
been occasioned by the unconscious influence of extreme health. 
As for myself, when I succeed in faintly recalling the rapture 
which I have experienced in these solitary rambles, and muse 
over the flood of fancy which then seemed to pour itself over 
my whole being,-and gush out of every feeling and every object, 
I contrast, with mortification, those warm and pregnant hours 
with this cold record of my maturer age." 

Well, there we four jolly " old chappies " enjoyed ourselves in 
a snug private room (specially secured by the thoughtful 
captain) overlooking the Bay of Ramsey, and the craft therein. 
The fun, as Burns hath it, " grew fast and furious," and ** we'll 
be young again " came out frequently and sequentially, — the 
tales, anecdotes, and jeu cTesprits all helping to intensify one 
of the happiest days I had ever spent ; and I believe and 
hope that my dear good friends, the ex-Mayor of Bradford, 
Dr. Taylor, and Captain Moore, agree with me in my simple 
record of the event. 



No. III. 

When I left my happy, hospitable Bradford friends on the 
Ramsey pier, and stepped on board the smart little pleasure 
steamer awaiting our return journey, I was much gratified to 
find that I should again have the pleasure of the companionship 
of my morning friends, who were returning to Douglas. The 
weather was lovely — a gentle refreshing westerly breeze, a bright 
sun, occasionally overshadowed by fleecy fleeting clouds, and an 
atmosphere at once bracing, refreshing, and invigorating. In 
the evening I accepted the invitation of my friends, Mr. and 
Mrs. Riddell, who hospitably entertained mc, and explained the 
different features of the beautiful panoramic view seen from 
their comfortable house, yclept " Brynteg," at the extreme end 
of the Thorny-road. My three or four hours here were spent 
in the most agreeable manner, my host and hostess being well 
versed -in art and personally known to many of the leading 
artists of the day, respecting some of whom Mr. Riddell gave a 
few racy anecdotes. 

With Tuesday came a red-letter day — a sail round the island. 
The weather was again all that could be desired, just like that 
of the previous day. All on board the magnificent steamer. 
Monads Queen — the captain, crew, passengers (over 200), and 



296 A WEEK IN THE ISLE OF MAN. 

even the little pet frisky pussy — looked healthy and happy. It 
was a wondrously beautiful trip, which I shall certainly encore 
on the first favourable opportunity. Though I have travelled in 
many countries, and viewed marvellous scenes, I do not 
remember having enjoyed anything better than this sail round 
the Isle of Man ; no, not even in Scotland or Switzerland. 
With little exception, at almost every turn in these seventy-five 
miles, Nature, in that combined, rugged, and eternal glory which 
I so much admire, met our eyes in all her brightness and beauty. 
Passing the retired inlet of Groudale, we soon came to that 
charming spot, Laxey Bay, viewing on the way a succession of 
zigzag lofty rocks and hills, the gathering clouds lying lightly 
at their base, and the summits standing forth clear above. Just 
beyond, we came upon the mountains of Barrule, Snaefell, and 
Bein-y-Phot. An intelligent fellow-passenger (a Scotchman, I 
believe) gave us here some interesting information. 

" If, before you return to your Yorkshire home, ye'll just pay 
a wee visit to Sulby Glen, you will see what I may safely say is 
one, if not the most, interesting spot on the island. First, there 
is a cascade issuing through an oddly-formed natural bridge ; 
there you will be able to get a good view of the gigantic 
mountains which rise to the right and left, from which large 
masses of rock stand out, threatening every moment to fall on 
the looker-on below." 

" How interesting ! " I exclaimed ; " can't I land here ? " 

" Nay, nay," quoth my friend ; be quiet (hard task for me at 
all times) and listen." 

" The stream which glides through the glen is the largest in 
the Isle of Man, affording most excellent sport for anglers. 
The glen is remarkably bold and romantic in character, and 
forcibly reminds me of ' Caledonia, stern and wild.' " (I found 
out afterwards that this and other choice bits the canny Scot 
gave us were chiefly cribb'd from the popular Guide Book.) 

" Good gracious ! " I said, " shade of Pritt come forth ! " 

" And wha's Pritt? " quoth the Scotchman. 

" Mirabile dictu ! " I said to myself, " here's a man who 
doesn't know the wonderful Pritt, the angler of anglers — the 
guide, comforter, and counseller of anglers — the Alpha and 
Omega of anglers ! Does he not write hebdomadally to the 
Y. W. P.^ and give the follower of the gentle art, who carries no 
*wums for bait ' in his mouth, fatherly, I might say, grand- 
fatherly, advice ? Does he not tell you when and where to fish ; 
how to make the killing flies ; how to troll, spin, throw a cast, 
and easily land both trout and grayling, when you've caught 



RAMSEY BAY. 297 

'em ? Are not his yarns and anecdotes* perfectly true from 
beginning to end ? " 

"Man alive! not to know Pritt, is to argue yourself unknown." 

Says the Scot, sententiously, and with his broadest vowels, 
" Is th^t a fact ! " 

" It is so," I rejoin, " and if you'lj call on me the next time 
you're in Leeds, I'll take you to a place where you may find 
him — perhaps." 

" Hold ! " I exclaim, " no more tales just now ; look, we are 
about entering the lovely Ramsey Bay." 

" Ramsey Bay " (says the intelligent Guide), " which is next 
crossed by the steamer, is a magnificent sheet of water, rivalling 
the famous Douglas Bay. The Albert Tower, on the mountain, 
which overhangs the town, is a prominent object. The range of 
high lands, forming a splendid background to the tower, 
culminate in North Barrule, one of the noblest mountains on 
the island." 

But the next point to be observed is the point of Ayr, the 
northernmost part of the island, where a lighthouse has been 
erected, having a revolving light, which can be seen occasionally 
fourteen miles at sea. From the deck of the steamer, at this 
"point," the views of the mountains are extremely fine. It was 
near this spot we were told that for seven miles here was the 
most, and only, uninteresting part of the island ; and, therefore, 
it was the chosen time for the familiar announcement, " Dinner 
quite ready, sir," from the lips of the courteous steward, and the 
vigorous ringing of a big hand-bell. 

" And, oh ! the joy, no soul can tell, 
The sound of that sweet dinner bell." 

Down we all rush into the fore cabin, with appetites 
positively voracious, and therefore sublime. The vegetable 
soup, cold roast beef, rabbit pies, salad, peas, potatoes, sweets, 
and cheese were all good, and were demanded and devoured 
with American avidity. A tall, thin, hungry, lean-faced man sat 
opposite to me, and I was shortly attracted by his rapid, 
wondrous performances in the gastronomic business, of which 
he seemed to be a perfect master. There wasn't a viand on the 
table, or to be heard of, by persistent inquiries, that this hollow- 
eyed, sharp-looking creature didn't call for. And with every 
fresh supply of eatables he required a bottle of beer! By a 
pleasant conversation with a fair lady who sat on my left, I lost 
count, but he afterwards told me he had drunk six glasses, and 
should like another, he was so thirsty ! 



298 A WEEK IN THE ISLE OF MAN. 

" Heh," I said, " you certainly take infinitely more than I 
could beer^ under any circumstances." 

My friends and I went on deck, but our beer-y friend stayed 
" below, below, below," and probably drowned himself in what 
Artemus W. called "a bole," for we never saw him again — never. 

Again we are summoned to view some further grand scenery, 
and the weather continuing bright and beautiful, and the inner 
man having been refreshed and strengthened, we rejoiced 
greatly, and were as happy " and merry as sand-boys." Some- 
where before we touched the Point of Ayr, the captain ordered 
the thundering hoot from the escape pipe to be sounded, opposite 
to some gigantic, wild-looking rocks, from which the echo came 
back with fine, startling effect. It wasn't quite equal to the 
Irishman's question at the blarney-stone, when the reply came 
" Ax my eye, you saucy divil ! " — but our echo did sound long, 
and died away with languishing sweetness, making no 
impertinent replies. But, for an echo, or reverberative, con- 
tinuous sound, there is one in the vestibule of the Leeds Town 
Hall superior to any other I have ever heard. It is like an 
interminable chimney, but it must not, however, be tried during 
one of the Musical Festivals, when the gallery window having 
been taken out, to accommodate more " back-seat victims," as 
someone called them, the required uninterrupted sequence of 
sound cannot be half obtained. The next point of interest in 
this delightful trip was the bonny little town of Peel, with its 
famous Castle, to which I alluded in a former communication. 
I longed to land and call at the beautiful Creg Malin Hotel, 
where the fair hostess on the previous Sunday had entertained 
us so well ; but as this could not be, we proceeded on our way, 
and pass " Corrm's Tower," and then " Contrary Head," so called 
from the fact that two opposing flood streams meet at this point, 
the tides from the north and south clashing twice daily. Now we 
come to the most boisterous part of the island — the Calf of 
Man — of which, I believe, a gentleman of independent means 
and education, but evidently fond of Nature's wildness, is, and 
has been for some time, the proprietor. Here, indeed, it might 
be said, during the fearful storms which sometimes prevail : — 

" The breaking waves clashed high 
On a stern and rock-bound coast ; 
And the woods against a stormy sky 
Their giant branches tossed.** 

It was at this tempestuous spot that the wreck of the steamer 
Florence occurred last week, bringing with it a sad tale of the 
sea, and of the sufferings of two survivors (out of a crew of 



THE CALF OF MAN. 299 

ten), one of whom subsequently died on board the Isle of Man 
steamer King Orry, by whose captain, assisted by a brave sailor, 
Kneale, they had been rescued from a sinking, battered boat, to 
which the poor fellows had been clinging, in a " dirty sea," for 
two days and nights ! Many of the drowned who lost their 
lives in the discharge of their duty will leave widows, and others 
orphans, probably unprovided for. Who would not give a 
helping hand to the Port of Hull Sailors* Orphans' Home, 
or some other similar institution, after such a heartrending 
catastrophe as this ? The " echo business," as a passenger 
termed it, is here repeated, and the rocks return the most 
solemn and prolonged reply. After passing Pigeon Cove, Port 
Soderick, Santon Head, Crenk-ny-Maroo, etc., we again return 
to the delightful bay of Douglas, where we land in the brightest 
and best of spirits, with a glowing elasticity of health, and a 
desire for vigorous mental and bodily labour. 

And now for my last day on the island — Wednesday, the 
28th ult. I felt as the doomed one said, that my hours were 
numbered. In the morning I was again engaged in answering 
a bundle of letters which had come in from " the other side." 
There were about twelve missives — my average number when at 
home. Seven out of the lot asked favours, or questions. Two 
were from ministers asking for my gratuitous services at the 
opening of new organs ; another what my lowest fee would be 
for a lecture ; another, would I adjudicate at a brass band 
contest, where nothing but harmony would prevail ; another, 
from a statistical-monger, asking me for particulars of my daily 
life, etc. ; another from an accountant who had just started 
business, and if he had the chance (which he won't get yet) he 
would willingly " wind me up cheap " ; another from an under- 
taker who could, if I would " kindly leave instructions," bury me 
at moderate charges ; another, asking me to state my candid 
opinion, to settle a wager, of the time in which Mendelssohn's 
overtures to A Midsummer Nights Dream should be played, 
and if the chords at the opening were to be sustained, or taken 
off ; another, asking me to give to a magazine a " fresh new 
hymn tune" for the Christmas number; and yet another, asking 
me for a subscription towards a " Vigilance Society " 1 I 
answered all — especially the latter — and I don't think my 
answers (excepting those on charity intent) would bring about a 
second application ; at least I hope not. After this, I went to 
St. Thomas' Church (I have previously described it), and gave 
an afternoon organ recital to a full congregation, including all 
the chief residents of the island, and numerous visitors. From 



3CO A WEEK IN THE ISLE OF MAN. 

the accounts I got afterwards, I hope and believe that my 
performance gave satisfaction and pleasure ; at any rate, a kind 
letter from the vicar (the Rev. Mr. Savage) assured me of the 
fact, which took the practical form of a handsome present. The 
evening was again pleasantly spent at the house of my friends, 
Mr. and Mrs. Riddell, whose kindness, attention, and hospitality 
I shall not easily forget 

Thursday morning came, and with it my departure. In the 
splendid steamer Mona's Isle, a full "cargo" of passengers, etc., 
we glided off at half-past eight in the morning ; and, amid 
the kindly farewells of many good friends, I got to the other 
side (not entirely free from the hateful mal de mer\ and 
proceeded from Barrow to Leeds, reaching home soon after 3 
p.m. Well, dear readers, I think you will agree with me that 
a more delightful seven days* visit could scarcely be obtained, 
by this " mortal frame," than that which I have endeavoured 
to describe to you in plain, homely, conversational vernacular, 
and I will now conclude my letters by saying — ^** Go thou, 
and do likewise." 



30I 



THE LATE MR. JOHN WILLIAM ATKINSON. 

(To the Editor of the " Yorkshire Post!') 

Sir, — Absence from home has almost shut me out of local 
affairs, during the last four or five weeks, but among other 
things which I hear on my return is the lamented death of 
Mr. J. W. Atkinson, of whose invaluable services in the cause 
of art (especially music) in Leeds, from 1851 to 1883, much too 
little has been said ; and as I was intimately associated with 
him for a considerable number of years, in matters musical, I 
hope you will allow me to supply a few more particulars which 
I venture to think will prove generally interesting to your readers. 

So far back as 1852, when the Madrigal and Motet Society 
was proposed, Mr. Atkinson entered heartily into the scheme, 
aiding and assisting me in procuring most of the best voices 
and singers in the town and district. The rehearsals and 
concerts of this ultimately famous vocal association had an 
important bearing (as is well known) on the general musical 
culture of West Yorkshire. This was greatly due to the untiring 
efforts of Mr. Atkinson, who was as popular and beloved as 
secretary, by the members of the chorus, who numbered at one 
period 250, as he was respected by, and successful with the public. 

When the Town Hall was approaching completion, in 1857, 
and I ventured to suggest in the newspapers a grand musical 
festival for the inauguration of the noble building and the 
gigantic organ, Mr. Atkinson, supported by the Mayor 
(Mr. James Kitson, father of Sir James), and other leading 
townspeople, devoted a large portion of his valuable time to the 
development of the scheme, taking upon himself enormous 
work and responsibilities. The success of that splendid 
gathering of musicians, when Sterndale Bennett produced his 
beautiful work, " The May Queen," was such that the medical 
charities benefited to the tune of ;^2,ooo ; and I need not add 
that Mr. Atkinson felt himself amply repaid for all the trouble 
and pains he had taken. 

The Festivals having remained in abeyance for sixteen years 
(no fault of mine), I ventured to urge on the Mayor, Aid. 



302 JOHN WILLIAM ATKINSON. 

Marsden, and Mr. Atkinson, the advisability of resuscitating 
these important artistic gatherings, which, after considerable 
difficulty and anxiety, was accdmplished ; and in 1874 a series 
of truly grand performances was given in the Town Hall, 
under the conductorship of Sir Michael Costa, with a most 
gratifying financial result. 

In 1877, 1880, and 1883, Mr. Atkinson again took an active 
part in promoting these Triennial Musical Festivals, and he 
established a course of action and system in their management 
which has ever since resulted beneficially for the medical charities. 

I may also gratefully mention the valuable assistance he 
rendered for many years to St. George's Church, and to myself, 
by the deep interest he took in the choir, the production of my 
work entitled "Sacred Harmony," and for the invariable kindness, 
courtesy, and liberality he displayed on all occasions. 

Mr. Atkinson was also one of the leading members of " The 
Musical Union " and " Orchestral Concerts " Committees ; and 
here, again, for several seasons he rendered me infinite assistance, 
in my capacity as conductor, by his tact and assiduity. 

At the Shakespeare Commemoration, too, he was "all in all," 
and copied out with his own hand the parts of the required 
music for my full band and chorus. 

In hundreds of minor ways he lent a cheerful, helping hand, 
and never failed to keep his word or engagements. 

Altogether, he rendered so many and great services to music, 
and to myself* personally, that I should be wanting in common 
gratitude (npt found in all of us, Tm sorry to say) did I not 
place on record some of these, which will live green in my 
memory so long as life itself lasts. — Yours, etc., 

William Spark. 

Newton Park, Leeds, September 2nd^ i88g. 



303 



SCRAPS, ANECDOTA, ETC. 

" Brought your own blower " ? — At an interesting old 
church in the East Riding of Yorkshire, in which a short time 
ago I gave an organ recital for a charitable purpose, the kind- 
hearted venerable rector met me by arrangement before the 
performance, and. taking me into a quiet corner of the church 
said, in an anxious tone, " My dear doctor, it is so very kind of 
you to come here and help us in our little village, but there is 
one point I am wishful to ascertain from you before you begin, — 
" have you brought your own blower ? " 



The above query may have been suggested to the mind of 
the worthy rector from the well-known fact that, when opening 
many new organs in the East Riding some years ago, a semi- 
idiotic man, one Ebenezer Dale, of Driffield, followed me when- 
ever he could get information of my whereabouts, and, displacing 
the ordinary blower, insisted on blowing for me himself Shortly 
before I began the recital he would come to the organ pew — put 
his head round the corner and astonish me by saying " It*s all 
right, doctor, Tm here to blow, and there's sure to be a good 
performance between us '' ! 



Paganini and Bywater. — When I came to Leeds, as Dr. 
Wesley's articled pupil, in 1842, my first appearance in the 
Parish Church was somewhat of a singular character. The doctor 
being absent, I was called upon unexpectedly to accompany 
the choir at the funeral of the famous local violinist, Bywater, 
in Purcell and Croft's well-known and beautiful music, — " Thou 
knowest. Lord, the secrets of our hearts," — " I heard a voice 
from heaven," etc. Having played this music in Exeter 
Cathedral, from Boyce's full score written in the old clefs, it was 
perfectly familiar to me, and was my first step towards obtaining 
the subsequent friendliness and valuable assistance of the 
famous choir. 



304 SCRAPS, ANECDOTA, ETC. 

Mr. John Rhodes, J. P., of Potternewton, Leeds, told me a 
story of this same By water which goes far to shew that he must 
have been a remarkably fine performer, as well as having a most 
tenacious retentive memory. When the celebrated virtuoso, 
Paganini, visited Leeds in the twenties of the present century, 
and gave a concert at the Old Music Hall in Albion Street, 
Bywater was engaged to assist and play a solo while the great 
Italian (a cadaverous skeleton in personal appearance) rested 
awhile. The maestro's chief piece was the famous Carnival di 
Venise, with seemingly impossible variations. The concert being 
over, Bywater asked permission to **just touch" Paganini's 
violin, and the request being granted, the local artist repeated 
from memory with astonishing power and brilliancy, the whole 
of the extremely difficult piece which Paganini had a short time 
before performed in his own inimitable style. 



Bywater seems to have been a genius of no ordinary kind, for 
he could play equally well the viola, and the double bass ; 
indeed, at a festival performance in York once he was unexpect- 
edly called upon to take the place of the principal double bass 
who had a difficult passage to perform, but was unable from 
some cause or other to fulfil his engagement. Bywater's 
execution of the part was admirable, and elicited the warmest 
encomiums from the conductor, orchestra, and audience. 



Keble's "Christian Year," etc. — I have never undertaken 
any more interesting work than setting music to some of the 
early portions of Keble's Christian Year, and Seymour's (His 
Honour Judge Digby Seymour, County Judge, Newcastle-on- 
Tyne) translation of the Psalms from the original Hebrew. It 
is among the things not generally known that I was the first 
composer, by the express permission of the inspired poet Keble, 
toset music to his morning and evening hymns — " New mercies 
each returning day " ; and, "Abide with me"; which, together 
with settings to beautiful words by the Rev. Isaac Williams, were 
published by Hopkinson Bros., of Leeds, and dedicated to Mrs. 
Hook, when I made my first appearance in Yorkshire at the 
age of eighteen. 

It came about in this way. Before the Marchioness of Lothian 
embraced the Romish Faith, she used frequently to visit Dr. 
Hook, and attend the services at the Leeds Parish Church, and 



SCRAPS, ANECDOTA, ETC. 305, 

it was after one of the full choral Friday evening services, when 
I had been presiding at the organ, that her ladyship asked the 
venerated vicar to let me go to Jedburgh to play the organ at 
the opening of the new church she had had built there. The 
Rev. John Keble, whose Christian Year is now so loved and 
cherished throughout Christendom, was the preacher on the 
occasion, and after the morning service he kindly asked me to 
walk round the grounds of the castle with him. Never shall I 
forget that ramble, or the sweet kindly counsel which the holy 
man gave me, and which resulted in my setting music to 
several of his divine poems. 



DiGBY Seymour, Q.C, etc. — It is much to be regretted that 
the " Psalms of David," translated from the original Hebrew by 
his Honour Judge Digby Seymour, have not yet been published 
with music, for, assuredly, the strength and beauty of his verses 
would make splendid substitutes for many of the rubbishly 
hymns so much in vogue at the present weak epoch of poetry. 
There is a splendid chance here for Sir Arthur Sullivan, Sir 
Joseph Barn by. Sir Walter Parratt, and many other knights of 
composing talent and uncomposing talent — to exercise their 
musical skill and supremacy. 

" It will be all right to-night." — The late Sir Michael 
Costa, though extremely reticent as a rule, and uncommunica- 
tive with those who were not in his favour, had many curious 
anecdotes to relate in connection with his long professional 
career. Among the many things he told me when visiting at 
his splendid house in Eccleston Square, was one respecting 
the origin of the saying " It will be all right to-night." Prior to 
his conducting the famous Reid concerts at Edinburgh, he would 
have full rehearsals of the band in Exeter Hall, London, at 
which he was always very scrupulous, and sometimes even 
brusque and severe. On one of these occasions Mr. Seymour, 
the bass drummer, had to play one important note in a symphony, 
and when his time came Costa looked at him, but he forgot his 
cue and the note was omitted. As soon as an opportunity 
presented itself he said, " you must pardon my forgetfulness. Sir 
Michael, but it will be all right to-night." However, when the 
eventful performance came off' it unfortunately happened that 
Mr. Seymour again omitted to play the important one note 
required, and for the performance of which he had actually been 
taken from London to Edinburgh ! 

U 



3o6 



SCRAPS, ANECDOTA, ETC. 



Trumpeters at the Assizes. — A few years ago, when the 
old trumpeters from York used to play ** in and out " the judges 
of Assize at Leeds, a well-known performer on the cornet (Mr. 
J. W. Binns) was asked to become substitute for one of the old 
toot-a-tooters who had been taken ill. Being tired of waiting 
for the end of an unusually long trial, they adjourned for some 
refreshment to the Victoria Hotel at the back of the Town 
Hall, and whilst there some wags got hold of their instruments 
and put corks in the tubes, so that when they were called upon 
to play no sound, of course, could be produced. The incident 
was reported to Mr. Gray, the Under Sheriff, father of the 
present Under Sheriff, and of Dr. Gray, of musical fame, w^ho 
kindly pleaded with the judge to prevent the unfortunate 
trumpeters from being committed for contempt and disobedience. 



** Flees Awa." — On one occasion, when on a lecture 
tour in Scotland (Dr. Saunders, beware !) I visited a town where 
I was assured there was an excellent body of singers who would 
render myself and the Yorkshire vocalists I had brought with 
me to give the illustrations, any assistance we might need. 
Among the pieces sung was the famous old English glee, " Hail ! 
smiling morn," and it occurred to me that at the well-known 
passage, " at whose bright presence darkness flies away," our 
Scotch friends could repeat the phrase with an echoing effect 
behind the scenes. And this is how it came out : — 



/ 



English 
Choir. 



^m 




atr 



Etc. 



Flies a - way ! Flies a - way ! 

pp 



Scotch 
Echo. 



i 



^= 




^ 



Etc. 



Flees 



wa ! Flees a - wa ! 



"Thirty-four Bars Rest." — Being engaged to organise 
a little string band in the neighbourhood of Leeds when I was. 
quite a lad, and was scarcely equal to the necessary manage- 
ment of performers of full growth, I discovered at the rehearsal 
of one of Haydn's symphonies, that at a passage where there 
was a change of time from C to ^,the flautist was not playing. 



SCRAPS, ANECDOTA, ETC. 307 

On stopping the performance to ascertain the reason (his part 
was somewhat important), 1 was informed that the gentleman 
whose flute passage was so much needed was enjoying j^ bars 
rest, as he understood his copy signified ! 



Corpse's Brother. — The vicar of a large parish, in a 
populous town in Lancashire, was recommended a young curate 
who had been just ordained, and who was the only son of his 
wife's old friend and schoolfellow of " happy days, long ago " — 

Mrs. Edwards, of . The fond mother brought her beloved 

son to the vicarage and sang his praises in no measured terms, 
adding to her confidante that he had only one little fault, or 
misfortune, which was that he laughed immoderately if anything 
comical, or humorous, excited his risible faculties. 

The worthy vicar was much interested in his new n>an, and 
asked him to take a funeral on the following day (Saturday) as 
he himself was obliged to be absent, but Sharpies (the old clerk 
and sexton) would give him every information, provide him 
with the proper book, and generally show him how well to 
discharge his new duties. The churchyard was large and rather 
far from the vestry, where the newly-fledged curate awaited the 
procession, and the return of the sexton who had gone off" to 
report progress, etc. In a short time Sharpies came hurriedly 
into the vestry and said, somewhat excitedly, — 

" If you please, sir, Corpse's brother wants a word with you." 

The timid young curate, robed as full as he could be, seemed 
to be almost thunderstruck at the singular request of old 
Sharpies, who in turn reiterated with increased force and accent 
the desire of the waiting ^* corpse's brother " for an immediate 
interview. 

Poor Edwards was speedily overcome, and his one weakness 
of which his good mother had given an intimation, prevailed to 
such an extent that he laid down on the floor, kicked his hands 
and his heels about, and continually shouted amidst his hysterical 
laughter, — Corpse's brother ! Corpse's brother 1 

I must draw a veil over the sequel — but the young gentleman, 
after an interview with the Vicar and his wife, attached himself 
to his dear mother's apron-strings at the earliest possible 
moment, and never returned to B n. 



Sensitive Musicians. — It has for ages past been the happy 
experience of poets, painters, and musicians, et hoc genius omne, 
possessing highly strung and impressionable natures, not to be 



3o8 SCRAPS, ANECDOTA, ETC. 

judged by the hard and fast lines which bind the merchant to a 
perpetual consideration of the multiplication table or the rules of 
interest, or the lawyer to the difference between meum and tyum, 
but with the freedom accorded to Bohemians. Such, however, is 
evidently not the opinion of those quidnuncs who, for the time 
bein^, have usurped the musical censor's seat in Leeds. That 
they are utterly unable to appreciate the intellectual strength of 
their artistic superiors is almost as amusing as that a blind and 
confiding public should entrust them with the purse strings of 
an institution which might and, in proper hands, probably would 
result in artistic good, but which now, and for some time past, 
has merely resulted m fiascos which are only less laughable than 
they are artistically sad. 

Eschewing egotism, I think 1 may place on record the 
expression of one of the many pleasures which have attended, 
and, happily for myself, still attends my life as a devotee to the 
divine art. It has been my lot to labour for more than forty 
years in a district which, by no stretch of imagination, can be 
designated an artistic one. But I willingly record that while 
my efforts for the promotion of a knowledge and love of music 
amongst that large class of the local community, whose lot in 
life is chiefly to labour and to wait, has been graciously 
acknowledged by my Sovereign, by making me a recipient of 
her favour ; nothing does or can compensate me for my past 
labours in the art more than the letters, which almost daily cheer 
and brighten my breakfast table, from former • pupils, happily 
for themselves, scattered almost over the whole habitable globe, 
which tell me, in unmistakable terms, of the influence which I 
have exercised in days gone by, and the influence which they 
are circulating. 

Personal. — Nor is this pleasure confined to myself I have 
studiously avoided in these Reminiscences, and in all my former 
works, the mention of the name of one who has not only been 
more than closely associated with all my hopes, has sympathised 
and sustained me in all the terribly small-minded scurrilities of a 
musical life in Leeds, has cheered and encouraged me in the 
faithful fulfilment of what she has always considered to be the 
highest object of an artist, viz., the perpetuating of those 
principles which are the essence and foundation of that divine 
art to which it has been the happiness and pleasure of my life 
to devote the powers which have been graciously bestowed 
upon mc. 



SCRAPS, ANECDOTA, ETC. 3O9 

Happily for myself, my musical career was commenced and 
continued for some years under a master who had only Henry 
Purcell as his predecessor in England, and after my pupilage, 
my artistic, as well as my domestic life, has been strengthened 
and blessed by the unswerving loyalty and faith of one whose 
smiles and approval are of infinitely more value to me than all 
the festival committees an erratic world has called into existence. 



Bridlington Quay. — For many years, more than I care to 
record, I have from time to time visited this charming watering 
place, combining individual pleasure with organ recitals (chiefly 
for charitable purposes), and have always experienced the 
greatest possible kindness from the inhabitants of the various 
towns and villages in the East Riding where I have stayed, to 
wit — Old Bridlington, Beverley, Driffield, Nafferton, Middleton- 
on-the-Wolds, Dalton Holme, etc. 



Ancient Churches. — The East Riding of Yorkshire, as is 
well known, abounds in beautiful old churches. Most of these, 
when I first knew them, were in a dilapidated and forlorn 
condition ; but there is now scarcely one where the hand of 
restoration has not been felt and seen, and where the liberal 
churchmen of the county have expended large sums, for which 
they will live in the grateful hearts of the people. And here 
it may not be out of plctce to make a few remarks upon the 
organs on which I have played in the various districts. The 
great Belgian instrument in the Priory Church has already 
been fully described in this work ; probably the next best 
organ that I have played on during my recent visit, is that in 
Dalton Holme Chuich, built by the famous firm of Hill and 
Son, London, consisting of two manuals and a small pedal 
organ. It was designed by Dr. Monk, former organist of York 
Minster, and presented by an ancestor of the present Lord 
Hotham, of Dalton Hall, with whom I had the honour and 
pleasure of staying during my visit to Dalton Holme, a short 
time ago. 

Mr. George Freemantle, the clever music-critic of the 
Manchester Guardian, relates some very interesting stories 
and sayings of the distinguished musicians who were in the 
habit of paying professional visits to Manchester. Especially 
good were those of Benedict after he had conducted his 



3IO SCRAPS, ANECDOTA, ETC. 

operas The Lily of Killamey^ and The Brides of Venicey and 
supped at the famous Brasenose club, composed chiefly of 
professional men, artistic in their tastes, and racy and communi- 
cative in their conversation. Benedict had personally well 
known Weber, Mendelssohn, Spohr, and the mighty Beethoven 
himself, and many a delightful or eventful anecdote would he 
relate of these great composers. 



Very much do I regret that, from circumstances over which I 
have had no control (I believe that is an original phrase), the 
mention of many matters and reminiscences which I should like 
to have recorded and dwelt on, must be omitted : — Inter alia — 
the joyous reception at Bridlington Quay of the honour 
conferred by Her Most Gracious Majesty (long may she live !) 
upon that genial, respected, accomplished, and universally 
beloved man (at least in Leeds where he is so well known), and 
which was duly celebrated by a symposium at his Bridlington 
Quay rooms — Mr. — now Sir George Irwin. 

I was in the chair ; J. W. Fourness, P.M. of Goderich, the 
clever, happy secretary of the Leeds Conservative Club ; one 
of the sweetest of England's tenors, Mr. Gilbert Jackson; 
the future great actor, Edward Irwin ; and other notabilities, 
of whose songs, recitations, speeches, bon mots, etc., I should 
like to dwell con amore. For the present, however, I must say 
farewell ! 



IPinale. 



INDEX. 



A. 

Abbott, Mr., and the Leeds Parish 

Church Organ, 169 
Albert Hall Organ, Sheffield, 193 
All Saints', Margaret Street, 47-48 
All Souls, I^eds, 68 
An Open Air Oratorio, 113 
Annotations, selected, 267 
Atkinson, J. W., 301 

B. 

Beardwell, David, 30 

Belgian Organs in Yorkshire — 

Bridlington Priory Church, 206 
Bradford St. Mary*s, 210 

Bennett, Sir S. W., Letter from, 243 

Berlin, 4 

Singing Academy, 10 

Blind Musicians, 121 

Bloomfield, Rev. Mr., 102 

Blumner, Herr, 10 

Bolton Abbey Church, 23 1 

Breitkoff and Hartel, 25 

Brunswick Chapel, 82 

Burton, R. S., 65, 167 

C. 

Choirs and Organs, Positions of, 251 
Conservatoire, Leipzig, 14 
Creser, Dr., 64, 65, 168 
Crow, Dr., 156 

D. 

DiENEL, Herr Otto, 5 
Dinner in a Swell Box, 22S 
Doncaster Parish Church, 179 
Dresden, 27, 31 

E. 

East Parade Chapel, 93 
Eccles Parish Church, 202 
Election of Organist, Leeds Parish 
Church, 1 82 1, 163 



F. 
Frederick the Great and Bach, ii-i 

G. 

Garland, W. H., 178 
Gewandhaus, Leipzig, 22 
Glockenspiel, 3 
Griel, Professor, 10 

H. 

Halifax Parish Church, 172 

Hamburg, I -36 

Handel Festival, 1877, 41 

Handel's St. Cecilia, 45. 

Haupt, Professor, 4-7 

Heintz, Herr, 6 

Hertz, Herr Martin, 2 

Hesse, W. J., Letter from, 246 

Hird, F. W.,69 

Hollins, Alfred, 129 

Holy Trinity, Leeds, 77 

Hudson, W., 134 

I. 

Isle of Man, A Week in the, 287 
Irwin, Sir George, J. P., 310 



J. 



Jaell, Alfred, 5 1 

K. 

K rolls Gardens, Berlin, 6, 7 

L. 

Leeds Musical Festival — Conductor 

for the first Festival, 243 
Leeds Musical Festivals, 237 
Leeds Town Hall Organ, 218, 240 
Leipzig, 14, 25. 
Lemare, E. H., 190 
Lewis & Co., Visit to, 57 
Lockey, Charles, 58 



312 



INDEX. 



M. 

Macfarren, G. a., 126 

Magdeburg, 34, 35 

Martin, Sir Theodore, 119 

Meinardus, Herr, 28 

Merkel, Gustav, 28, 29, 30, 33 

Metcalf, John, 139 

Methodist New Connexion, Woodhouse 

Lane, 97 
Mill Hill Chapel, 89 
Monk, Dr. E. E., 155 
Music and Organs in Hamburg, i 
Music and Sunshine, 141 
Music in North Wales, 117 
Musical Tour in Germany, General 

Observations on, 1,3, 7, 8, 9, 40 

N. 

Naylor, Dr. John, 154 
Northcote, Miss, 125 

O. 

Organs and Organists of the North — 

Doncaster, 179 

Halifax, 172 

Parish Church, Leeds, 160 

Ripon Cathedral, 156 

York Minster, 150 
Osterhault, Herr, 2 

P. 

Papperitz, Dr. 
Parish Church, Leeds, 64, 160 
Priory Church, Bridlington, 206 
Prichard, Henry, 127 

R. 

Reinecke, Carl, 14, 15^ 17 
Reitz, Julius, 31, 34 
Richter, Dr., 16, 24 
Ritter, Dr., 35 
Roberts, Dr. J. V., 176 
Roder, C. G., 25, 26 
Rogers, Jeremiah, 180, 182, 187 
Rogers, Robert, 187 
Rubke, Herr, 19 

a 

Scraps, Anecdotes, etc., 303 
Sheffield Parish Church Organ, 189 
Albert Hall Organ, 193 



Shepherdson, W., on Doncaster 
Organ, 184 

Sinclair, Rev. W., 10 1 

Smart Henry, 126-7 

Stanley, Dr. John, 123 

Stericker, A. C, 134 

St. Marien, Berlin, 5 

St. Mark's, Leeds, 199 

St. Mary's, Bradford, 210 

St. Mary's, Newington, 57 
'St. Michael's, Hamburg, 2 

St. Nicholas*, Leipzig, 18, 20, 21 

St. Pancras, London, 47 

St. Peter's, Berlin, 6 

St. Thomas', Berlin, 6 

St. Thomas', Leipzig, 15, 16 

Succo, Herr, 6 

Sunday Musical Services in Leeds — 
The Parish Church, 64 
All Souls, 68 

St. Bartholomew's, Armley, 73 
Brunswick Chapel, 82 
St. Chad's, Headingley, 109 
East Parade Chapel, 93 
St. George's, 100 
Holy Trinity, 77 
St. John the Evangelist, 85 
St. Mary*s, Richmond Hill, 87 
St. Martin's, Po'ternewton, 80 
Methodist New Connexion, Wood- 
house Lane, 97 
Mill Hill Chapel, 89 
South Parade Chapel, 107 

T. 

Thiele, Louis, 7, 8 

Turning the Handle for a Week, 61 

W. 

Wagner, 31, 32 

Wagstaff, E. C, 134 

Wakefield Cathedral, 212 

Watson, Frank, 133 

Week in the Isle of Man, A, 287 

Week's Music in London, 41 

Wesley, Dr. S. S., 64, 65 

Appointment to Leeds, 166 

Wieprecht, Herr, 4 

Y. 
York Minster (Organ), 150 



LIST OF SUBSCRIBERS 

Allum, Charles E., Mus.D., Stirling. 

Anderson, J., 13, Roseneath Terrace, Edinburgh. 

Abbott, Isaac, Blenheim Square, Leeds. (2 copies) 

Abbot and Smith, Messrs., Organ Builders, Blackman Lane, I^eeds. (3 copies) 

Balfour, G. W., M.P., 67, Addison Road, London, W. 

Brooksbank, Col. A., Middleton-on-the- Wolds, Beverley. (2 copies) 

Bunnett, Edward, Mus.D., Cantab. The Close, Norwich. 

Blanchard, Rev. H. D., Middleton Rectory, Hull. 

Brindley, Richard P., Clifton Lodge, North Hill Road. 

Binns, James J ., Organ Works, Bramley, Leeds. 

Buckle, George, East Liberty, Wells, Somerset. 

Bedford, James, Woodhouse Cliff, Leeds. 

Beaumont, James, 31, Albion Street, Leeds. 

Barr, Fred H., 4, South Parade, Leeds. 

Brownfoot, John, 9, Brudenell Grove, Leeds. 

Broadwood, John & Sons, 33, Great Pulteney Street, London W. (2 copies) 

Birchall, Edward, 18, Moorland Road, Leeds. 

Burnley, J. W., Ashfield, Heckmondwike, z/m Norman ton. 

Burtonshaw, H. L., Crowle, Lincolnshire. 

Backhouse, T., High Street, Bideford, Devon. 

Brotherton, John H., 43, Newgate Street, Bishop Auckland. 

Bilton, William Arthur, 79, St. Mark's Road. 

Bracewell, J. T., Brierfield, Lancashire. 

Brook, Mrs. Harry, King Street, Batley. 

Barker, E. J., 18, East Parade, Leeds. 

Belcher, The Rev. Evans, Heather Manor, Ashby de la Zouch. 

Boynton, Thomas, Norman House, Bridlington Quay. 

Bennett, John, Stirling Castle, Queen Street, Bridlington Quay. 

Barr, Miss, 6, Grasmeade, Bridlington Quay. 

Cooke, Ald. Alf, J. P., Crown Point Works, Leeds. 

Caldicott, Alfred J., Mus.Bac, Cantab., London College of Music, 7, Great 

Marlborough Street, London, W. 
Crapper, James A., L.Mus., Organist, Jedburgh, N.B. 
Cantor, Josef, 50, Church Street, Liverpool. 
Curzon, Frank, Victoria Chambers, Leeds. 
Cookson, Walter, 6, Hyde Park Terrace, Leeds. 
Chapman, Arthur, Corn Exchange, Leeds. 
Clafton, Joseph, Saltwood House, Oldham. 
Clough, James W. , New Bank House, Burnley. 

Cust, The Very Rev. Arthur W. Purey, Dean of York, The Deanery, York. 
Cockerlyne, William, 90, Freehold Street, Leeds. 
Crews, Cambridge John, 88, Albion Street, Leeds. 
Cottell, Lansdowne, London C'onservatoire of Music (Director), Porchester Road, 

Hyde Park, London, W. 
Conacher, Peter, & Son, Organ Works, Huddersfield. 

Conacher, James & Sons, Bath Buildings, Huddersfield. (2 copies) 

Clayton, Thomas, 17, Woodville Road, Chorley, Lancashire. 
Cawthorne, Mr., Organist, Christ Church, Park Gate, Rotherham. 

W 



314 SUBSCRIBERS. 

Crow, G. F., The Ellars, Kirkstall, Leeds. (4 copies) 

Clarke, H. C., 20, King Street, Bridlington Quay. 

Depledge, Rev. George, AttercliiTe Vicarage, near Sheffield. 

Dunn, Sinclair, 67, Bemers Street, London, W. 

Driffield, E. Townshend, 26, Castle Street, Liverpool. 

De Prins, Leopold, St. Mary's Cathedral, and 9, St. Patrick's Terrace, Cork. 

Dickson, John, 2, Ash wood Terrace, Cumberland Road, Leeds. 

Davison, Charles, 24, Fitzroy Square, London, W. 

Dixon, James, 3, Louis Street, Leeds. 

Dudeney, Thomas James, L.R,A.M., 16, The Crescent, Taunton. 

Dearnaley, Irvine, Handel Place, Ashton-under-Lyne. 

Dilly, C, Middelton Hotel, Ilkley. 

Ellison, Joseph Illingworth, Oxford Road, Gomersal, near Leeds. 
Elvey, Arthur E., Regent Street, Belle Vue, Wakefield. 
Eastwood, Arthur, King Street, Batley. 

Fox, Thos. Bateman, J.P., Springfield, Dewsbury. 
Faber, Edmund Beckett, Old Bank, Leeds. 
Flitch, J. J., I, Westfield Terrace, Chapel- AUerton, Leeds. 
Fourness, J. W., Hanover Square, Leeds. 
Forrester, T. B., Parton, Helensburgh, N.B. 
Fyfe, John T.,20, Westminster Terrace, Glasgow. 
Falshaw, Samuel, Headingley, Leeds. 
Flockton, Joseph, 17, Hanover Square, Leeds. 
Flockton, William, Hopewell House, Oulton, near Leeds. 
Fowler, Charles, Britannia Buildings, Oxford Row, Leeds. 
Fen-wick, Thos., i. Park Place, Leeds. 
Foster, Mrs., The Library, Bridlington Quay. 

Greenwood, Arthur, J. P., Albion Works, Leeds. (2 copies) 

Grove, Sir George, Royal College of Music, Kensington Gore, London, S.W. 

Gaines, J. W., 8, College Road, Leeds. 

Gration, James Henry, Westfield, Barnsley. 

Gilbert, Charles, 50, Gregory Boulevard, Nottingham. 

Green, Thomas, Smithfield Ironworks, Leeds. 

Houghton, Lord, P^yston Hall, Ferrybridge. 

Hotham, Lord, Dalton Hall, Hull. (4 copies) 

Harewood, Countess of, Harewood House, near Leeds. 

Hatton, Joseph, 49, Grove End Road, London, N.W. 

Harwood, Basil, The College, St. Mary's Cathedral, Oxford. 

Harrison, Thomas, Messrs. Brown's Bank, Leeds. 

Hammond, Stocks, 10, Heaton Grove, Bradford (2 copies) 

Hannam, William S., 4, East Parade, Leeds. 

Harding, Charles Vieliem, 7, The Parade, Carmarthen. 

Hirst, Charles, Peel House, Bottoms, Morley. 

Hopps, Robert, 2, Headingley Terrace, Leeds. 

Hargreaves, J. B., Wellgarth House, Armley, Leeds. 

HoUins, Alfred, 3, Rockmount Road, Upper Norwood, London. 

Horsley, Francis, Lytham (Clifton Arms Hotel). 

Hardman, Henry Charles, ii. Lord Street, Glossop. 

Howarth, J. H. , The Crescent, Newton Park, Leeds. 

Hunter, Frederick, 75, Portland Place, London, W. 

Hargreaves, John Ben, 22, Harley Street, Intake Road, Pudsey. 

Higginson, Frederick Bealby, ii. Lavender Hill, London, S-W. 

Haddock, George, Newlay Hall, Leeds. 

Heslinton, T. C. , 2, North Road, Ripon. 

Ions, William J., 10, Grosvenor Place, Newcastle-on-Tyne (Cathedral Organist). 

Jackson, Right Hon. W. L., M.P., 27, Cadogan Square, London, W. 



SUBSCRIBERS. 315 

Jackson, H. Gilbert, 4, Archery Terrace, Leeds. 

Jackson, Basil, 18, Cambridge Road, Battersea Park, London, S.W. 

Jessop, William, 4, Greenmount Terrace, Beeston Hill, Leeds. 

Kemp, Harry W., Warwick Road, Dewsbury. 
Kirk, John, Buckingham Villas, Headingley, Leeds. 
Kloetgen, W. J. H., 16, Watling Street, London, E.C. 
Kemp, Alfred, Crackenhedge, Dewsbury. 

Lawson, F. W. ,J.P., Oaklands, Adel, Leeds. 

Lawson, Arthur T., J. P., Leeds. 

Ledger, James W., Organist, Kelven Church, Glasgow. 

Laycock & Bannister, Organ Builders, Crossbills, Keighley. (2 copies) 

Loaring, J., 5, Holly Villas, Clapton Square, London, N.E. 

London College of Music, 7, Great Marlborough Street, London, W. (6 copies) 

Leigh, Miss L., 6, Portland Crescent, Leeds. 

Lemare, Edwin, The Mount, Ventnor, Isle of Wight. 

Lavington, Charles Williams, Cathedral Organist, North Liberty, Wells, Somerset. 

Leigh, Arthur George, ChorclifF House, Chorley. 

Lambert, Miss, Rose Court, Headingley, Leeds. 

Love, James, A mot Hill Gardens, Falkirk, N.B. 

Lester, W^. H., Glyngarth, The Crescent, Bedford. 

Long, R., 3, Cliff Terrace, Filey. 

Morrison, Sir George, Kirkstall Lane, Headingley, Leeds. 
Marsden, Mrs. , Avenue House, Woodhouse, Leeds. 
Metcalfe, William, 33, Chiswick Street, Carlisle. 
Macpherson, H. M. Charters, 26, Connaught Square, London, W. 
Marr, Robert A., 30, Hanover Street, Edinburgh. 
Mason, William B., Lifton House, College Road, Leeds. 
Melville, C. E., Queen Street, Keighley. 

Meen, Fountain, 73, Marquess Road, Canonbury, London, N. (2 copies) 

Mason, C. L., i, Moorland Terrace, Leeds. 
Moss, Samuel, Macclesfield. 
Monk, James J., 1 01, Grove Street, Liverpool. 

Manchester Free Public Libraries (per Charles ^^^ Sutton, Chief Librarian), 
King Street, Manchester. (6 copies) 

Meredith, H. S., Solicitor, 13, East Parade, Leeds. 
March, The Misses, Beech Grove House, Leeds. 
Marks, T. Osborne, Mus.D., Cathedral Hill, Armagh. 
Methven, Simpson & Co., 83, Princes Street, Edinburgh. 
Mead, J. , Red Hill, Surrey. 

North, Colonel, Eltham, Kent. (6 copies) 

Nussey, S. L. , Potternewton Hall, Leeds. 

Naylor, Joseph, Holbeck Lane, Leeds. (2 copies) 

Nevitt, John G., Chapel- Allerton, Leeds. 

Newby, Timothy, 35, Boar Lane, Leeds. 

Newell, Miss, 7, Elmwood Grove, Camp Road, Leeds. 

Naylor, John William, J. P., Allerton House, Chapeltown, Leeds. 

Naylor, Charles J.; Black Lion Hotel, Bridlington. 

Osler, James, Newton Park, Leeds. 

Pedder, Austin, 8, Cyprus Villas, Ventnor, Isle of Wight. 

Powell, Arthur Seymour, 8, Cyprus Villas, Ventnor, Isle of Wight. 

Plant, Arthur B., Mus.B.,Oxon., St. Paul's Square, Burton-onTrent. 

Prickett, Marmaduke, M.D. , 12, Devonport Street, London, W. 

Powolny, E. A. , 2, Hillary Place, Leeds. 

Pyne, J, Kendrick, Ash Lea, High Street, Oxford Road, Cathedral Organist, 

Manchester. 
Pole, William, Mus.Doc.Oxon, F.R.S., &c,, 9, Stanhope Place, Marble Arch, 

London, W. 



3l6 SUBSCRIBERS. 

Pilling, S. W., The Hagg, Mirfield. (3 copies) 

RiPON, The Bishop of. The Palace, Ripon. 

Roberts, Dr. J. VarW, Magdalen College, Oxford. 

Ramsden, Archibald, 8, Gloucester Terrace, Regent's Park, London, W. 

Rogers, R. M., High Street, Doncaster. 

Robinson, J., 32, Francis Street, Leeds. 

Robinson, Newton, 7, Margaret Street, Pentre, Pontypridd, S. Wales. 

Rogers, T. P., 25, Norfolk Market Hall, Sheffield. 

Richards, Geo. W., Choir Master, Congregational Church, Bridlington Quay. 

Seymour, His Honour Judge Digby, Q.C, LL.D., Percy Park, Tynemouth. 

Smith, F. G. Hume-, The Rev., Armley, Leeds. 

Soyes, Philip de, 11, Granville Terrace, Mayes Road, Wood Green, London, N. 

Scarth, Alfred, 86, Albion Street, Leeds. 

Spark, Edward J., Claverham House, St. John's, Worcester. (2 copies) 

Slater, Jeredick, 108, Holyhead Road, Wednesbury. 

Stead, Thomas, 10, Glover Street, Leeds. 

Saunders, Gordon, Mus.D., &c.,Jesmond, Greencroft Gardens, London, N.W. 

Smyth, Rev. Thomas Cartwright, D.D., 10, Westfield Terrace, Chapel- Allert on. 

Statham, William, B.A., Mus.D., Dunelm, Ellesmere Port, Chester. 

Schofield, Thomas, Ivy Lodge, 74, Headingley Lane, Leeds. 

Smith, William, 41, Lofthouse Place, Leeds. 

Strachan, James K., 13, Berkeley Terrace, Glasgow. 

Spark, H. S., Easby Drive, Ilkley. 

Stoddart, C. J., J. P., Blenheim House, Doncaster Road, Rotherham. 

Sedgwick, R. J. H., 26, Sholebroke Avenue, Leeds. 

Smit, Rev. Martin E. , Congregational Minister, Bridlington Quay. 

Smith, Miss E. M., Back Regent Street, Barnsley. 

Strafford, James, 113, Briggate, Leeds. 

Tew, T. W., J. P., Carleton Grange, Pontefract. 

Teale, Thomas Pridgin, 30, Cookridge Street, Leeds. 

Tiffany, George John, 10, Sholebroke Avenue, Leeds. 

Trevor, Tudor, 7, Blenheim Square, Leeds. 

Tozer, Ferris, Mus.B.,Oxon, 4, Eaton Place, Exeter. 

Turner, Thomas, The Grove, Gipton, Roundhay, Leeds. 

Turner, Henry Dickinson, Wellingborough, Northamptonshire. 

Tonking, H. C, c/o Messrs. Weekes & Co., 14, Hanover Street, Regent Street, 

London, W. 
Teale, Mrs., Huntcliffe House, Harrogate. 
Tallant, Miss, Guilsborough, Northampton. 
Topham, Wm., Kirkham Manor, Driffield. 

Varley, Captain and Qr. -Master Richard, ist West Riding Artillery Volunteers, 
Leeds. (4 copies) 

Wilkinson, Lt.-Col. S. W., J. P., Apsley Cottage, Stockport. (2 copies) 

Wurtzburg, John H., Albion Works, Leeds. 

Wurtzborg, Chas. E., 22, Palace Gardens Terrace, Kensington, London, W. 

Winter, Leonard George, 10, Britannia Square, Worcester. 

Wesley, Rev. F. G., Ilamstells, Durham. 

Westbrook, Dr., Sydenham, London, S.E. 

Winn, Thomas, 5, Park Lane, Leeds. 

Wynne, Rev. Edward, D.D., Parkgate Vicarage, Rotherham. 

Walker, Mrs. W. A., Clifton Villas, Otley. 

Wilson, Richard, Westfield, Armley, near Leeds. (2 copies) 

Whitaker, Charle3, Warwick Mount, Warwick Road, Batley. 

Watts, Joseph, West Park Street, Dewsbury. 

Yates, William Edward, The Willows, Bramley, near Leeds. 

Yates, James, Public Librarian, Leeds. (2 copies) 

Zemin, William, 13, Chouringee Road, Calcutta, India. 



SELECTION FROM 

H)r» Spark's ©rgan Mocks* 

Handy Book for the Organ, a Complete Tutor (Third Edition), 
5/-. Boosey and Co., 295, Regent Street, W. 

Short Pieces for the Organ, Twenty-four Books; each con- 
taining 5 or 6 Pieces from the Works of the Great Masters 
and others, easily arranged, with Pedal Obbligato. A useful 
work for the Organ Pew and Teaching, 4/- each. E. Ashdown, 
Hanover Square, W. (Contents on Application.) 

**The most useful and handy work for the Organ Loft, and for Teaching, with 

which we are acquainted." — Leeds Daily News. 

Concertstiick, in A Minor and Major (Dedicated to Sir Michael 
Costa). Three Movements, which can be used separately or in 
conjunction, 4/-. Metzler and Co., 37, Great Marlborough 
Street, W. 

Concert Fantasia, in B Major (Dedicated to Sir R. P. Stewart). 
Three Movements, which can be used separately or in con- 
junction, 4/-. Chappell and Co., 50, New Bond Street, W. 

Sonata, in D Minor and Major (Third Edition), Allegro 

moderato. Chorale, Variations. Finale (Fugue on two 
subjects). 3/-. Novello, Ewer & Co., i, Berners Street, W. 

Grand March, in E Flat Major: " Eboracum.'' "Brilliant 

and effective, but not difficult." 4/-. Metzler and Co. 

Andante, in D Minor; and Allegro, in D Major. Part 4, 

** Organist's Quarterly Journal." 2/6. Novello, Ewer & Co. 

Adagio, in E Flat (Choral Hymn). Part 5, *' Organist's 
Quarterly Journal." 2/6. Novello, Ewer & Co. 

Introduction, in E Flat Minor; and Fughetta, in E Flat 

Major Part 10, ** Organist's Quarterly Journal." 2/6. 
Novello, Ewer & Co. 

Prelude, in G Major. Part 13, " Organist's Quarterly Journal " 
2/6. Novello, Ewer & Co. 

Andante, in C Major. Part 20, ** Organist's Quarterly Journal." 
2/6. Novello, Ewer & Co. 

(Descriptive Piece, entitled " The Lake.") 

Offertorium or Postlude, in B Flat Major. Part 24, 

** Organist's Quarterly Journal." 2/6. Novello, Ewer & Co. 

** Jerusalem the Golden " (Hymn Tune, with Variations). Part 
30, ** Organist's Quarterly Journal." 2/6 (or separately, 2/-). 
Novello, Ewer & Co. 

Voluntary, in G Major. Part 33, ** Organist's Quarterly 
Journal." 2/6. Novello, Ewer & Co. 



^elecfion froii\^ i)i[ ^par^'^ Orgaii TS[oi(^. 



Minuet, in A Minor; Gavotte, in D Major. Part 35, 

** Organist's Quarterly Journal." 2/6. Novello, Ewer & Co. 

Introduction and Allegro, in D Major. Part 43, ** Organist's 
Quarterly Journal." 2/6. Novello, Ewer & Co. 

** Vespers '* Carillon Offertoire, in F Major. Part 48, 

** Organist's Quarterly Journal." 2/6. Novello, Ewer & Co. 

Rossini's " Messe Solennelle." Four Favourite Numbers. 3/- 
each. Chappell & Co. 

Hime's "Eroica'* March, with Pedal Obbligato. 3/-. DufT & 
Stewart, Hanover Street, W. 

Twenty Favourite Marches by the Great Masters, Pedal 

Obbligato, in Three Books. 3/-. Patey & Willis, Great 
Marlborough Street, W. 

Popular Minuets and Gavottes, i Vol. Pedal Obbligato. 
3/-. Patey & Willis. 

Practical Organ School. Tutor, Pieces, and description of the 
Leeds Town Hall Organ, with drawing. 2/-. E. Ashdown, 
Hanover Square, W. 

(** The cheapest and best Organ Tutor yet published.") 

Fantasia, in F (Dedicated to his friend. Dr. E. J. Hopkins). In 
Three Movements. 5/-. Novello, Ewer & Co. 

Two Books of Original Voluntaries. Easy, without Pedal 
Stave, i/-. W. Morley & Co., Regent Street, W. 

**Organum*'; a Series of Pieces for Organ. 3 Sections— 

Classical and Sacred, Original Works, and Popular. 3/-. 
Forsyth Brothers, 272a, Regent Circus, Oxford Street, W. 

Cavatina, by Raff, arranged with Pedal Obbligato. ''A 

beautiful and effective Organ Solo.'* 3/-. Forsyth Bros. 

**The Organist's Album/' A series of Original Compositions 
and Arrangements. 4/-. Marriott & Williams, 295, Oxford 
Street, W. 

Indispensable Pedal Exercises. A thoroughly useful Work. 
4/-. Publishing Company, 7, Great Marlborough Street, W. 

Twelve Schubert's Choicest Songs. Transcribed for the 
Organ. 2/6. E. Ashdown, Hanover Square, W. 

The Children's Home (Cowen). Transcribed for the Organ. 
4/-. W. Morley & Co., Regent Street, W. 

The Lost Chord (Sullivan). Transcribed for the Organ. 2/-. 
Boosey & Co., 295, Regent Street, W. 



j^clcdion from Dn §5par^s Organ T0[oi[^5^. 



The Better Land (Cowen). Transcribed for the Organ. 2/-. 
Boosey & Co. 

Jubilee Fantasia, on National Airs. **Come, if you dare," 
**Rule, Britannia," and **God save the Queen." 2/-. Novello, 
Ewer & Co. 

In Memoriam (Sir George Macfarren). Andante Maestoso. — 
Trumpet call to Duty. Allegro Agitato, D Minor. Largo. 
Andante Espressivo. — Angel-voices. Finale. — Triumphal 
March. 2/6. Novello, Ewer & Co. 

Fantasia on Scotch Airs. Introducing '* Ye banks and braes," 
** Caller Herrin'," " Auld lang syne," etc. 2/6. London 
Music Publishing Company, 7, Gt. Marlborough Street, W. 

The Vesper Hymn, Variations and Fugue. An effective 

piece, suitable for sacred or secular recitals. 2/6. London 
Music Publishing Company, 7, Great Marlborough Street, W. 

BK. SPA-RK'S 

Organist's Quarterly Journal. 

V JmmanueL ^ 

Seleeljed ^Rijljhems from Ijhe ©rajjorio. 

$,0, 1. — ®Ijta ts ilje bajt toljtclj iiji Itnrlr Ijatlj mabt (Trio, Soli, or Chorus). 
(Ilj0tt art mji (&ob (Recitative, &c.) (B ^iirt il^Rnks nnia i}jt l^orir (Full Chorus). 
20pp., Price Sixpence. 

^0. d. — ^oiartna to ilje S^an ai l^abib (March tu Jerusalem and Chorus). 
1 6pp., Price Sixpence. 

fi,a. 3.— Itnt0 tJIje*, (B '^oxh (Duet for Soprano and Tenor, with Chorus). 
12pp., Price Threepence. 

ifl0. 4. — Wbj axe v^ ^o fearfxil? (Tenor and Bass Solo). 8pp., Price 
Threepence. 

Seleeljed from jjhe ©anlfalFa. 

^0. 6. — |t camz tipon t\fe mibniQlfi cUax (A Christmas Carol). 4pp., Price 
Three-halfpence. 

fi,o. 6. — I ir^ltgljt i0 d0 ®Ij5 toill (Quartet or Chorus). 4pp., Price 
Three-halfpence. 




PRICE 108. 6d, 



LIFE-WORKS OF 

HENRY SMART. 

By -D-R. WILLIAM SPAKK 

(Author of *''' Musical Mefnories: Past and Present''). 



Crown 8vo^ j86pp.^ Cloth; with Authentic Portrait Frontispiece^ 

and i$o Musical Illustrations, 



EXTRACTS FROM THE PRESS. i 

** It not only gives, as far as the Biographer can furnish it, , 

the personal history of Henry Smart, but discusses with consider- ' 

able discrimination the characteristic features of his compositions, 
his organ playing, and choir training, the whole being written in 
a very readable style. It is an unfeigned tribute to the writer's 
warm estimation of one of the most honourable names amongst I 

English musicians, and being the first work of its kind, marks a 
new advance in the progress of the art." — Bradford Observer, 

**We welcome this nicely written and judiciously assorted 
volume, not only because it gives an interesting and appreciative 
account of a distinguished and excellent man, but also because it 
is a valuable contribution to the effort to make better known the 
lives and works of some of our chief native musicians. . . Dr. 
Spark*s affectionate memoir will, we are sure, be warmly greeted 
by hundreds of musical people who have long known and loved ' 

Mr. Smart, either personally or in his artistic and tuneful 
utterances." — Dublin Express, 

'* This Life of Henry Smart comes to us almost as a novelty 
in English Literature. We hope it may be so received as to lead 
the way in a department of biography so little regarded, and that 
we may have books to tell us something of the lives and works of 
the musical geniuses of our country. . . One of the foremost 
among the ranks of living musicians. Dr. Spark, has already done 
much to elevate his profession and nourish the growing taste for 
pure organ music in England, but we venture to think he has 
done a still more effective service to the cause he loves, by writing 
a book which is at once an interesting memoir of the life of a self- 
made man, and a critical review of the works of one of our 
greatest English Composers." — Leisure Hour, 



THIRD EDITION, NOW READY, 

Thick Crown 8vo^ Clothy 448 pages. Price 4s. 6d, 

f 



Musical -^ 




Memories: 



Past and Present, 



WITH PORTRAIT FRONTISPIECE OF 
SIR MICHAEL COSTA. 



By DR. WILLIAM SPARK 

(Author of " The Life and Works of Henry Smart*' ), 



COJ^TEJvlTS. — Mc:^e:pBc:e:p, MenM^^s^ogn, Spo^p, Be:ne3.ici, 

Se:Ba;gtian We:;glc:^, Bi;g§op, Steipnlale: Bennett, 

Sip Jo^n ©o;gjS, Wallace, Bal^e, T§alBepg, (Seopge lainlej?, 

©pi;gi anl Mapio, Titlen^: ani (Sluglini, t§e Macj^appen^, Smapl, 

Patti, Bp. E. J. Hopkin;a;, Hatton, &c., toget^e^p "Wit^ 

Sptiele^i on vapiou^i Mu;gical SuBject;2, Scpap^J, Knec3.ote;a:, &c. 



©pinions of the l^ress. 

**A pleasantly written book of reminiscences of a large 
number of distinguished persons in the world of music. . . Dr. 
Spark knows how to tell a good story, and has not a few new and 
old to tell ; while the tone of his book is so invariably cheerful 
and good natured, that the promise of further recollections, hinted 
at in the preface, will, we hope, be fulfilled." — Saturday Review, 

**The Author speaks of things that he understands and of 
persons that he has known." — St, James's Gazette, 

**Just one of those pleasant books which are instructive 
without being tedious, and amusing without being frivolous. The 
book is very pleasant reading, and we counsel our readers to get 
it without delay. *^ — Musical Standard, 

X 




GOODALL AND SuDDICK, PRINTERS, LeEDS. 




oiaiifORD MUSIC U^^iS^^i 



I 



i 



x^ 



