personal IRemfniecences anb SKetcbes 
of Character 



BY 

W. BEATTY-KING.STON 

COMMANDER OP THE IMPERIAL OBDEB OF THE MEUJIDIEH AND OF THE ROYAL ORDERS 

OP THE REDEEMER, STAR OP ROUMANIA, CROWN OF ROTJMANIA AND TAKOTA 

OF SERVIA ; KNIGHT OF THE IMPERIAL ORDER OF FRANCIS JOSEPH 

AND OF THE I.E. AUSTRIAN ORDER OF MERIT OF THE 

FIRST CLASS WITH THE CROWN, ETC. } ETC. 

AUTHOR OP "WILLIAM I., GEBM&N EMPEEOE," " THE BATTLE OF BERLIN," 

ETC. 



IN TWO VOLUMES 
VOL. II. 

MANNERS 



LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL 

1 'LIMITED ' ' , 



LONDON I 

FMXTK0 BY J. S, VIRTUE AND CO., LIMITED, 
CITY KOAD. 



CONTENTS. 

VOL. II. 

CHAPTER L 

VIENNESE HOSPITALITY. AMUSEMENTS IN THE KAISERSTADT. 
THE WURSTL PRATER. AUSTRIAN RACING AND DINING. 
SOCIAL ENTERTAINMENTS. CARNIVAL EXTRAVAGANCES. A 
FESTIVAL OF FOOLS , 1 

CHAPTER II. 
LIFE IN BERLIN 4:3 

CHAPTER III. 

LIFE IN BERLIN, UNDER THE LINDEN. PRUSSIAN ORDERS OF 

CHIVALRY. GERMAN PATRONYMICS AND PREDICATES . . C8 

CHAPTER IV.' 

LIFE IN BERLIN. EASTER AND CHRISTMAS CUSTOMS. SUMMER 

AMUSEMENTS. PRESS PHENOMENA. SLEDGING , . .104 

CHAPTER V. 

SPANISH CHARACTERISTICS. - A MADRID TELEGRAPH-OFFICE. 

SHERRY TOWN, LIFE IN ANDALUSIA. A FRUIT MARKET . 140 

CHAPTER VI. 

LIFE IN BUCHAREST 182 

CHAPTER VII. 

LIFE IN BELOgApji ^.^.^...a--* j A^tfAf <A ' - 213 



6701)3,1,0 



INDEX. 
CHAPTER VIII. 

TACTS 

SERVIAN PRINCES AND THE TRAGEDY OF TOPCHIDEREH . . 235 

CHAPTER IX. 

LIFE IN CAIRO. ARAB CHARACTERISTICS. HELIOPOLIS . . . 252 

CHAPTER X. 

THE HOME OF AN ITALIAN ACTOR. FIVE ITALIAN Does . . 275 

CHAPTER XI. 

ENGLISHMEN ABROAD. FOREIGN COOKERY AND BRITISH REQUIRE- 
MENTS. UNFREQUENTED CONTINENTAL NOOKS. SPAS AND 
" WATER-PLAYS." A DULL CAPITAL 303 

CHAPTER XII. 
STATES OF SIEGE . . . 345 






CHAPTEK I. 

VIENNESE HOSPITALITY. AMUSEMENTS IN THE KAISER- 

STADT. THE WURSTL PRATER. AUSTRIAN RACING AND 

BINING-. SOCIAL ENTERTAINMENTS. CARNIVAL EXTRA- 
VAGANCES. A FESTIVAL OF FOOLS. 

YIENNA has tlie reputation, of being a city in which the 
savage virtue of hospitality is universally practised. It 
is supposed to be a sort of foreigners' paradise a happy 
oasis in the great Continental desert, where the parched 
traveller, thirsting for social delights, can'refresh himself 
with copious draughts of Gemuthlichkeit a discretion. I 
am totally at a loss to understand upon what grounds 
this agreeable fiction is based. A more civil, smiling, 
superficially cordial people than the Yiennese does not 
exist upon the face of Europe : French politesse, Italian 
demonstrativeness, Spanish courtesy, all have their charms 
alas ! too fleeting and are genuine of their sort ; but 
the downright geniality of the Kaiserstadt in small 
matters, whilst surpassing all these in attractiveness, is 
a magnificent sham, artistically concealing an ingrained 
selfishness and absolute indifference to social obligations 

VOL. II. - B 



A FLORENTINE HOSPITALITY. 

about as engrossing and intense as may be. Comparing 
Vienna with, other Continental capitals justly renowned 
for their inhospitality, I am forced to admit that she is 
as churlish as the worst of them,, and a good deal less 
honest in her churlishness. Let us take Florence,, for 
instance. It is beyond dispute that you may reside in 
that poco-curante city for a dozen years, move in the best 
society 3 keep open house, and eyen achieve the position 
of a universal favourite, without ever being asked to 
dinner by one of the numerous friends who partake of 
your good cheer with affectionate regularity without 
penetrating an inch farther into the inner life, the vie 
in'time, of your most frequent visitor than you did on the 
day of his first visit. He calls you u thou ? 3? speaks of 
you as " carino," even " poverino" if he is really fond 
of you displays a delicate ingenuity in rendering you 
a thousand little useless services and, in proportion to 
the verity of his regard for you, will lend an eager hand 
to the dissection of your moral character, or to the dis- 
semination amongst your other " friends ?? of a scandalous 
rumour affecting your solvency, the virtue of your wife, 
or the reputation of your daughter. A society like that 
of Florence is hospitable neither in deed nor in thought ; 
but at least it does not pretend to be so ; or, indeed, to 
be anything in particular, save amusing, free and easy 
in morals, not manners for nowhere are the outward 
forms of decorum more scrupulously adhered to than in 
Florence. Firenze la Bella is frankly selfish, unreservedly 
cynical, and "has the courage of its convictions;' 5 whereas 
the upper and middle classes of Yienna lay claim to all 
sorts of old-fashioned virtues to them verily unknown. 



save by name; amongst others hospitality. They lose 
no opportunity of impressing the foreigner with the fact 
that the Eaiserstadt is the only birthplace and hoxne of 
that renowned quality Gemiithliehkeit, variously trans- 
lated. Facility for Eeceiving Pleasure, Jollity, Strauss's 
Waltzes, Beer, Smoke, Hot Booms choose which ren- 
dering you please ; they are all equally correct, and none 
of them to be found in the dictionary. They insist upon 
your believing in this delusive nondescript so loudly and 
persistently that you soon begin to doubt its existence, 
and presently discover that they themselves have no 
knowledge of it whatever in its concrete conditions, if it 
have any. For I do not dispute that one man may fancy 
he finds Gemiithllchkeit at the bottom of a huge glass 
mug filled with Pilsener or Schellenhofer ; that another 
may detect it in the thrilling harmonies of a stringed 
quartet ; or that a third may inhale it from a Government 
Eegalia Media. Gemtithlichkeit, if it be anything at all, 
Is some one particular thing to each individual person 
e.g., ham and eggs to A, a shower bath to B, the worst 
of a political argument to C, a racy couplet from a raddled 
matron In a beer-house to D, a quiet rubber at the club, 
ducat points, ten for consolation, and sans atouts once in 
four, to E, and so on all through the alphabet ; but I 
contend that It is not universal not even generic ; and, 
above all, that it is by no means Viennese. For a slower 
set of people s or one more thoroughly suffocated by 
routine even in their pleasures, such as they are, It 
would be difficult to imagine. I will endeavour to de- 
scribe and analyse their amusements; but first let us 
examine and weigh the merits of their claims to be a 

B 2 



4 THE VIENNESE COI T KT. 

hospitable people ; afterwards we will briefly inspect 
their titles to Gemiithlichkeit. 

What is society in Yienna ? I am seriously embar- 
rassed to say what it is, or rather what they arc for, of 
course, in a town so full of class feeling as the Kaiserstadt, 
social relations are absolutely limited and defined by the 
unwritten statutes of caste. There is the Burg, to begin 
with, in which the Imperial Court holds sparse and mild 
festivity, setting an excellent example, remnant of the 
patriarchal days, to less exalted party- givers in the 
matter of early hours. " Conie at six and go at nine," 
is understood in the august invitations. Yery few of 
these soirees generally enlivened by musical perform- 
ances, vocal and instrumental are given, which is a 
pity; for the Emperor and Empress are unrivalled as 
host and hostess, and exert themselves inclefatigably to 
amuse their guests. But how many guests ? And what 
must you be and do to become one of the forty or fifty 
chosen, who are honoured by invitations? First of all, 
if not a foreigner,, you must be " Hof-fahig vom Gelwrt " 
(court-eligible by birth), that is to say, must prove your 
right to not less than sixteen quarterings in your coat, and 
that your paternal and maternal descent has boon noble 
for so many generations without a plebeian hiatus. Thoiv 
be princes of the Empire who never get asked com- 
pliance with these regulations being out of their power ; 
recently ennobled manufacturers, capitalists, mon of 
science can never hope that their names should be in- 
serted on the Imperial list of invitfo. Supposing you 
are " Hof-fahig," so much the better, perhaps, for you ; 
but you must also be in favour with the Imperial family 



FOREIGN EMBASSIES. 5 



to get a card for these exclusive receptions. Politics 
hare nothing to do with the parties at the Burg. Minis- 
ters and ambassadors are not always asked, whilst a few 
patricians, not remarkable for great wealth, prominent 
career, or any quality known to the uninitiate, are always 
sure of a " command." There are strange contradictions 
in the Austrian Court code, as democratic in some" respects 
as it is aristocratic in others. For instance, the Emperor 
grants audience to persons of all degrees twice a week ; 
it is less difficult to be admitted to his Majesty's presence 
than to that of a chief clerk in a Government office. But 
being a knight of the Imperial orders does not entitle any 
one to an invitation to the palace, which is, with some 
exceptions, granted to a man rather as -the representative 
of his ancestors than as himself. Therefore society at 
Court is maintained upon a very small scale indeed, pour 
cause. The class of society immediately succeeding that 
gathered round the Emperor and the archdukes may be 
summed up in a very few words. It consists of the 
u Ilof-falrig" people who visit and receive one another, 
and nobody else. They affect greater exclusiveness, if 
possible, than that ordained by Court traditions ; for, 
after all, the Ministers of State and representatives of 
foreign Powers have the entree, virtute officiontm^ to the 
Imperial saloons, whereas I could name one or two draw- 
ing-rooms in which statesmen and diplomatists, unless 
scions of certain families, never set foot. 

Next come the embassies. Now, the embassies, exceptis 
fixc.ipendiS) are very hospitable, as it is their duty to be. 
The more familiar one becomes with diplomacy, and how 
it is done; its requirements, uses, and effects; the qualifi- 



b MINISTERIAL CIRCLES. 

cations and achievements of those holding its most im- 
portant trusts, etc., the more one wonders what an ambas- 
sador's real functions are, if not to represent the hospi- 
tality of his native land why such cumbrous and costly 
establishments as embassies, legations, and the like arc 
kept up, if not to impress foreigners with a deep respect 
for the wealth and magnificence of the countries they 
represent; perhaps, also, to keep travelling natives of those 
countries up to the mark in the manners and customs of 
their respective fatherlands. Diplomatists en mission are 
very handsomely paid for very little work ; but clearly 
under the tacit compact that they should spend their 
country's money in a manner calculated to raise foreign 
estimation of that country's dignity. This end is most 
easily and agreeably attained by a judicious, yet large, 
hospitality ; and some of the embassies in Yienna under- 
stand their calling well enough; but their free and frequent 
welcome to hundreds of notabilities can scarcely be charac- 
terised as illustrating Viennese hospitality. Ambassadors, 
if they know their business, are hospitable everywhere ; 
not particularly in Vienna indeed, rather less so in that 
capital than in others with which I am acquainted. 
Giving a certain number of parties during the season is, 
no doubt, a troublesome duty ; but then it is about the 
only one interfering with the calm and comfortable in- 
dolence in which the life of a Foreign Envoy is passed. 

Following close in the wake of diplomacy comes the 
local official world, by which I mean the actual Cabinet 
Ministers and the Speakers of the two Houses. There 
is no " Prefect of the Danube," and the Municipality, 
though it attends parties when invited, gives none. The 



THE VIENNESE MIDDLE GLASSES. 7 

Ministers, much to their credit, are, as a rule, far too 
"busy to indulge extravagantly in the amenities of social 
life; they open their saloons about once a month, go 
through a heavy ordeal of 6analit/s with great good 
humour, and return to their conferences, manifestoes, 
and reports with unwearied industry. Now and then 
they snatch a few moments from their graver avocations 
to make the round of a public ball-room, where they chat 
unaffectedly with the most pleasant persons they can find 
generally artists, musicians, and actors and are ex- 
haustively stared at by legions of ffobemouches. Intelli- 
gent, conscientious, earnest, and overworked they cer- 
tainly are ; but hospitable they certainly are not ; for the 
best of reasons they can't be. 

And yet with these meritorious and kindly gentlemen 
I must conclude my list of those who, at least, make 
something like a show of hospitality in Vienna. The 
officials of lower rank, the high military officers, the rich 
bankers and merchants, the wealthy professional men, 
even the leading tradesmen, members of a Biirgersehaft 
supposed to be eminently Gemiithlich, no more form a 
society or societies, or have any tendency or desire to be 
hospitable than so many tribes of Oaribees, or beaver 
settlements. Every Caribee for himself. No respect- 
able beaver wants & pied a terre in his fellow-beaver's 
lodge. The ladies, poor things, subdued by centuries of 
male selfishness, male devotion to beer-house, and general 
male letting-alone of wives and daughters, have not even 
spirit enough to get up tea-fights amongst themselves, 
and revile their forsakers under the mawkish stimulus 
of muffins. The men go straight from their " depart- 



8 VIENNESE LADIES* 

merits/ 3 offices, quarters, or counters to the club or the 
Bier-halle the Verein or the Kneipe where" they eat, 
drink, smoke, play Tarok, and talk about nothing till 
bedtime, when they go home to sleep that is, if they 
are good. If they are naughty and a good many of 
them are they adjourn to a cheap public ball, suburban 
" hop," or beershop chantant, whence they return, if they 
do return, somewhere in the small hours, decidedly no 
better off, morally or physically, than when they left 
home in the early morn. Meanwhile the ladies well ! 
I don't know what they do exactly a good deal of 
needlework and revision of household accounts, I sup- 
pose put the children to bed, and look, for the thousandth 
time, over the photograph albums. The standard of 
female education in the middle classes is not very high, 
and so it is to be hoped they do not suffer so grievously 
from ennui as they assuredly would if it were. "Well- 
bred and highly-cultivated women, left utterly to them- 
selves, are apt to turn melancholy or desperate; it is 
some consolation to think that the Vienna ladies run 
little risk of becoming either the one or the other, though 
they are more thoroughly neglected, as a rule, than the 
ladies of other capitals even in Germany. even 

they ? sad as is their lot, enjoy rare moments of social 
glory isolated compensations for the weariful duluess 
of their daily lives. During the short reign of Carnival 
about a dozen public balls are given in favour of chari- 
table institutions, or by the committees of local associa- 
tions, admission to which is procurable by the payment 
of more or fewer florins, as the case may be. To these 
the otherwise recalcitrant papas and husbands conduct 



WINTER BALLS. 9 

their a fenialities ; " and the meek domestic chrysalides 
burst into butterfly raiment for a few hours, flutter their 
wings vigorously, gyrate after the manner of everyday 
butterflies, and then relapse into the egg-laying and 
spinning state for another dreary series of months. I 
grant that these balls are good balls ; but the pleasure 
they afford, being purchasable, is not really social. I 
grant that, besides them, there are masked balls galore ; 
Tanzkranzchen, on the " gentlemen pay for the ladies'' 
principle, in abundance ; plenty of concerts as good as 
can be ; half a dozen theatres, of which two are endurable 
Strauss at the Blumensaal,. and the Wiirtemberg band 
at the Yolksgarten. But, granting all this and a power 
of suburban high jinks to boot, dirt cheap and triumph- 
antly nasty, where, .where is the society the Yienna 
society of which every Yiennese is apt to boast to the 
stranger within his gates ? 

Well, if they haven't got much society in Yienna, at 
least they have (so they say) enough and to spare of 
Gemiithlichkeit. Perhaps they have. I only wish they 
could define and point it out. What, then, is Yiennese 
Gemiithlichkeit? I admit that the beer is sublime, 
supernacular it is, indeed ! And the rendering of in- 
strumental music is not to be surpassed, scarcely equalled, 
in London, Paris, or Berlin. But, beyond these and a 
few other very good things, in what can a Dweller on 
the Threshold discover the longed-for Gemiithlichkeit ? 
Not, surely, in the dismal theatres, or in the murky Bier- 
halle, with their fetid atmosphere, vengeful vivers, and 
unclean songs ? Or in the narrow streets, to adventure 
which is as perilous as the imminent deadly breach ? Or 



10 PARISIAN AMUSEMENTS. 

in the rickety omnibuses, which need only a steward and 
a battery of basins to paraphrase the discomforts of a 
Channel steamer to perfection? Or in the foul-mouthed 
cabmen, who bespatter you with invectives if you pay 
them only twice their fare ? Or in the poverty, ignorance, 
and vice eating the very heart out of public morality ? 
The Yiennese, in common with many other German tribes, 
vow and declare that we Englishmen do not, and cannot^ 
understand the word, or the state of things and feelings 
it expresses. All I can say is, that, if Gemiithlichkeit 
be the thing that I have been forced to think the Viennese 
believe it to be, I am sincerely thankful that it is un- 
translatable into our imperfect language, and, still more 
so, that I don^t understand it, nor ever shall ! 

The Parisians enjoy the reputation of being the most 
ardent and assiduous pleasure-lovers in Europe. The 
theory in virtue of which this enviable renown is 
pretty universally conferred upon them is based upon 
very sufficient grounds. Unquestionably Paris offers a 
greater number and variety of amusements to its in- 
habitants than any other city in the world ; and it is 
reasonable to infer from this fact that those inhabitants 
take a greater delight in recreation than the natives of 
towns less abundantly provided with the means of killing 
time agreeably. It must not, however, be forgotten that 
Paris, that brilliant epitome of the age we live in, is, in 
fact, a gigantic Vanity Fair, whither flock the rich and 
idle of every country, certain of finding there the 
amusement that is to them an absolute necessity ; and 
to which the hard- workers also joyfully resort in seasons 
of well-earned holiday, to achieve, during an interval of 



PLEASURE-LOVING- VIENNA. 11 

well-organised desosuvrement^ the recuperation of their 
exhausted forces. The numerous enterprises that pro- 
vide for the Lutetian public daily and nightly that 
enormous bill of fare in the way of pastime which is 
admired and envied by London, Vienna, Berlin, and 
St. Petersburg, derive their prosperity chiefly from 
foreigners and provincials the Parisians themselves 
have, from generation to generation, eaten so largely of 
the Forbidden Fruit that they are rather used up so far 
as diversions, theatrical, terpsichorean, or extra-mural, 
are concerned, and retain a passionate fondness for such 
spectacles only as take the form of military display, to 
which no Frenchman, however blase or cynical, is wholly 
indifferent. Go to Parisian theatres, jardins dansants^ 
casinos, concert-rooms, or race-courses, and you shall 
find all those places of entertainment thronged by 
foreigners and provincials : the genuine Parisian is 
conspicuous by his absence. Moreover, the bourgeoisie 
of Paris is a busy, money-getting class, earnestly 
devoted to its manifold occupations. There are few 
cities in which more or harder work is got through in 
the course of the year, and with less surcease of appli- 
cation. "Whereas in Yienna the "great mass of the 
people, from the shopkeeper downwards, live in a 
happy-go-lucky sort of way, working a little when they 
cannot help it, trusting a great deal to " something 
turning up, ?? and devoting the whole of the limited 
amount of energy with which nature has endowed them 
to the pursuit of pleasure when and wherever they can 
find it. I must, therefore, take leave to claim for the 
Kaiserstadt the privilege, if it be one, of being inhabited 



12 A PATERNAL GOVERNMENT, 

by a race of people which is, in every respect, far more 
passionately pleasure-loving than are the Parisians. I 
am thoroughly confident that, man for man, the Viennese 
spend twice as much money yearly in amusements, 
although the recreations available to them are but few 
and strangely deficient in variety, as do the denizens of 
the splendid city on the Seine. Pleasure may almost 
be asserted to be their main occupation ; all the rest is 
Nebensache^ something either subservient or contributing 
to the one prime object, " Nur tanzen und singen mid 
alleweil fidel;" the refrain put into the mouth of 
Priam's pet son by Jacques Offenbach might serve 
aptly for Vienna's motto. It is aujour le jour with the 
Viennese. " Let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we " 
may have to work ! For this dangerous epicureanism, 
which is at the root of half of the evils that stand in the 
way of the Kaiserstadt's moral and material advance- 
ment, the old regime is, no doubt, principally responsible. 
It systematically taught the people that their mission in 
life was to drink good and cheap beer, listen to admir- 
able dance-music surpassingly well executed, pay the 
taxes (neither heavy nor harshly levied) when they 
could, venerate the Imperial family, crowd the theatres 
and churches, and leave the management of their affairs, 
political, financial, and educational, to the gifted and 
privileged race which, somehow or other, in its supreme 
wisdom and benevolence, Providence had created for 
that special purpose and set over them in authority. 
" Kick up your heels, " said a paternal Government, "as 
much as you please you can't kick them too high ; but 
don't attempt to make any use of your brains, for that 



POLITICAL EMANCIPATION. 13 

Is an absurd proceeding In people of your position, and 
one directly at variance with the Divine decrees, which 
ordain that we, and we only, are capable of regulating 
the national welfare ! " And straightway the Govern- 
ment contracted a ruinous loan, entered upon a cala- 
mitous war, lost a province or two, or placed a hundred 
thousand or so families in mourning, never forgetting 
to call upon the people, ignorant perforce, and besotted 
in a compulsory sensualism, to pay the bill, and thank 
God for being blessed with such frugal and sagacious 
rulers. All of a sudden, after generations and genera- 
tions of this organised degradation had lowered the 
morality and utterly destroyed the independence of 
character of a kindly and intelligent race, came a tre- 
mendous cataclysm, upsetting old traditions, uprooting 
ancient landmarks, and imperiously summoning a people 
steeped in the lethargy of ages to arise, set its own house 
in order, and take upon itself the whole responsibility to 
which it had for ever so many centuries been absolutely 
forbidden even to aspire ! Like Minerva issuing from 
the head of the Thunderer, it must be armed at all 
points, and perfectly wise, at a moment's notice. But 
Pallas was the result of a miracle and the days of 
miracles are past and gone. 

As might have been expected, the Yiennese has by 
no means come up to the imaginary standard of political 
capability which has been set up for him by the apostles 
of Eeform, and the enthusiasts who have been dinning 
the blessings of self-government into his indifferent ears 
for the last twenty years. Accustomed to find every- 
thing, even to Ms opinions, cut and dried for him, he is 



14 VIENNESE CHARACTERISTICS. 

altogether unmoved "by the glorious prospect of having 
everything to do for himself. He is, in all matters out- 
side Ms immediate personal gratification, as apathetic as 
a Kussian moujik or a Turkish collector of taxes. Only 
when the time-honoured kicking-up-of-heels aforesaid, 
which is become a part of his nature, comes into question 
does he develop a remarkable energy of purpose, fer- 
tility of suggestion, and elasticity of temperament. Call 
upon him to exercise any of his elective "or inspectorial 
functions for the manifest advantage of his parish or his 
city, and he will, with a cheery but somewhat vacant 
laugh, answer, " Es wird schon gut gehen!" (That'll 
be all right enough), or "S'werden's halt ohne mir auch 
richten konnen ! 3? (They will get on well enough with- 
out me 1 ) He will growl like a fretful bear over the in- 
eptitude of some asinine town councillor, a living skid for 
the wheel of municipal progress ; but he will not take 
the trouble of attending the civic elections, so that the 
blockhead he complains of may be ousted, and replaced 
by a man of sense. As a grumbler always, however, 
in a good-natured silly sort of way he is unrivalled, 
but deems that, when he has uttered his unmeaning 
protestations a few scores of times to his cronies, who 
are all fashioned on Ms pattern, he has done Ms share of 
the public work. It is with his rooted dislike to intel- 
lectual effort, and his utter deafness to the appeals of 
duty, that the Government has to wage a constant and 
harassing war. But whisper in his ear the magic words 
"A'Juchs," or, still welcomer, " A'Hetz," and he will 
brighten up into a liveliness, an activity absolutely 
astonishing. To be briskly boiled alive in the stifling 



HOLIDAY-MAKING. 15 

atmosphere of a crowded ball-room, or slowly stewed to 
a pulp in a reeking beer-hall, lie will make any sacrifice 
of remunerative employment or of domestic comfort. 
He will gaily mortgage Ms future earnings that lie 
may be able to participate in the monotonous joys of 
Carnival. IS o sooner has winter shown signs of flagging 
in its bitterness than he is all agog to get outside the 
barriers, and swill his beer voluptuously im Freien in 
the open. For him, with the first hesitating breath of 
spring, are polished up and thrown open the countless 
Restaurationen, Wein-schenke^ and Bier-garten that line 
each country road and fill every village in the neigh- 
bourhood of the capital. Whether it be a holiday or not 
and, counting Sundays, there are about ninety days 
of prescribed idleness in the Austrian yearly calendar 
so soon as the sun makes up his mind to shine out 
merrily one fine morning, though cold the breeze from 
the still snow-clad hills and muddy the roads from 
recent rains, out from the several Linien pour long 
streams of citizens and proletaries, the former mfiaJcers, 
" comfortabel" so named on the lucus a non principle 
omnibuses, and horse-cars, the latter on that humble 
and inexpensive but enduring animal, a Shanks' mare.' 5 
Speedily are all the tiny tiddlywinks and spacious 
beer-gardens filled to overflowing with consumers of 
"Heuriger" (the sweet and fiery produce of last autumn's 
vintage) and "Marzer," " Klein Schwechater ?? or 
"Schellenhofer." Isfever mind that there is not a leaf 
on the stumpy trees under which the round wooden 
tables are spread with "Frankfurter" and " Wiener 
Schnitzel ?? that the biting wind whistles through their 



16 HOLIB AY-MAKING. 

bare branches, or that the beer-mug rattles against the 
chattering teeth of the blue and shivering pleasure- 
seeker ; that he has had Ms fun, der Juchs ist halt da ! 
and he returns to his thrice-heated stove or stuffy coffee- 
house with a gladdened heart. Let the real, downright 
fine weather set in, and you shall see what you shall 
see. There are not fiakers enough, at fancy prices, 
omnibuses, or open cars on the tramway to accommodate 
the exhilarated legions eager to slake their never- 
entirely-to-be-assuaged thirst in the dearly-beloved 
extra-mural haunts that are the pride of the Kaiserstadt. 
Two-seated cabs the family vehicle de predilection of 
the Viennese, who consider sitting on one another's 
knees eminently gemilthlich may be seen labouring 
along the execrable rural lanes with cargoes of ten and 
eleven, the driver smoking a long pendent wooden pipe, 
and flogging his melancholy jade with merciless vigour ; 
parties of green or purple capped students, spectacled 
and cigarred, with their arms round each other's necks ? 
and vociferating German, Slavonic, or Hungarian Lieder, 
block up the side-paths, and brutally force ladies or 
timid loungers into the roadway ; there are six inches 
of yellow dust everywhere, and water-carts exist only 
in fervid imaginations ; the sounds of a thin fiddle, or 
tinkling and musically unsatisfactory zither, are heard 
from each beer-shop window, struggling intermittently 
with the roar of voices raised by the noisy tipplers 
within. 1ST.B. Everybody, as a rule, in Austria speaks at 
the top of his voice. The fields and woods are bestrewn 
with sweethearts, so unscrupulously demonstrative of 
their tender passions in broad daylight as to qualify 



LAX MORALITY. 17 

them for participation in the most out-and-out love-feast 
ever celebrated in a "Welsh chapel, the while the papas, 
and mammas too, are swilling away for the dear life, 
philosophically careless of what Kathi, TirterL acd Ghisti 
may be transacting under the greenwood tree. Some 
months later arrives what, in the hybrid jargon of 
Vienna, is called a Ein Malheur ; ?? but that is sur- 
mounted without much weeping, wailing, or gnashing 
of teeth. For what purpose else, I should like to know, 
exists that gigantic institution, the Findel-Anstalt, save 
for the convenient termination of these awkward little 
domestic incidents ? Next spring Eathi, Tinerl, and 
Ghisti will be again as chirpy as crickets, and as ready 
to sally forth into the leafy fastnesses ; whilst their 
amiable parents will be even more nachsichtig for their 
offspring's gambols than before, comforting themselves 
with the sage axiom, "Was geschehen ist, ist gesche- 
hen " (What is done can't be undone), and drowning 
their shrewd previsions of probable malheurs in a foam- 
ing flood of malt liquor. It is difficult to convey to 
English readers, in terms that will not offend them, an 
idea of the deplorable laxity, so far as private morals are 
concerned, prevailing in the liveliest and loosest of 
capitals. That which moves society in England to 
indignation loud and deep scarcely excites a comment 
in Vienna. Such a thing as an action for seduction is 
never heard of. People put their dishonour in their 
pockets, and live on happily as if nothing had occurred 
to disturb their equanimity. Domestic servants enjoy, 
as it were, a license for immorality hallowed by custom, 
Nobody thinks of dismissing a cook or a chambermaid 
VOL. ir. c 



18 " CAEPE DIEM/ 3 

because she lias a "misfortune," or a series thereof. 
She stipulates for the visits of her geliebter, by whom 
she probably has half-a-dozen children, and who then 
marries somebody else ; and if you endeavour to put 
any check upon her love arrangements, she will tell 
you, "Ich muss aber auch meine DuinmhciteninachenP 5 
and give you warning on the spot. Without servants 
you cannot live, and there is literally no exception to 
this rule; so Johann the journeyman shoemaker, or 
Schani the jager-corporal, continues to adorn your 
kitchen at all holiday times and seasons how many 
these are one must live in Austria to credit and to 
conduct your sentimental Toni or gushing Clarchen to 
masked balls, whence they return at six in the morning, 
to country excursions and to Prater-fairs all of which 
lead direct, though by different paths, to the enormous 
establishment above referred to. 

The Austrians in general, and the Yiennese in par- 
ticular, are essentially holiday-making, pleasure- loving 
people. Indolence and thriftlessness are two of the 
many maleficent legacies left them by the system of 
paternal government which used to instruct them in this 
wise, "Drink, eat, smoke, and dance you shall have 
your beer, vivers, and tobacco cheap, and your music for 
nothing * don't trouble yourselves to think we will do 
that for you. Of course you must work a little, else you 
will have no florins to spend ; but we will make your 
lives as easy as possible for you for instance; in concord 
with Holy Mother Church we will enforce the obser- 
vance of forty or fifty holidays every year, besides 
Sundays, upon which, as you will not be allowed to 



X WELL-BEING. 19 



work, you can amuse yourselves to your hearts' content. 
Nur ianzen^ und sing en ^ und alleweil fidel ! Only don't 
meddle with politics, administration,, etc. Those arts 
are in our province ; yours be it desipere in loco}' 1 The 
paternal government Is no more ; but its lessons have 
taken root in the nature of the people, and, like most 
weeds, flourish exceedingly, however poor the soil from 
which they spring. It is truly said that "All work and 
no play makes Jack a dull boy ; " be assured that all 
play and no work produces precisely the same effect. 
At least a dozen generations must pass away ere the 
vices grafted upon the kindly Austrians by their former 
rulers can be eradicated; at present, prodigality and 
carelessness are as natural to them as good humour and 
good looks. They groan, or affect to groan, under a 
taxation in many respects merely nominal as compared 
with ours ; and I will venture to affirm that if the men of 
the working and trading classes would consent to knock 
off only one of the many mugs of beer they daily Imbibe, 
and de?ote the money saved to the payment of a new 
tax, they would contribute a sum at the end of the year 
to the State cash-box which would liquidate the annual 
deficit twice told. Labourers and artisans throughout 
the Hapsburg realm live better, as a rule, than clerks, 
subordinate Government officials, and small tradespeople 
do in Italy, or even Prussia. There is abundant, nay 
exuberant well-being in Austria, so far as the material 
good things of this life are concerned. No stronger 
evidence of general popular prosperity can be afforded 
than the extravagant quantity of amusement allowed 
themselves by the lower classes. Where shall we find 

o 2 



20 THE WURSTL PRATER. 

another city the size of Vienna which maintains during 
eight months out of the twelve a gigantic Greenwich 
Fair at its very gates, in the park frequented by the 
aristocracy the corso or ring of the Kaiserstadt? Fancy 
half Hyde Park covered with "booths and tents from 
March till October, trumpets braying, drums beating, 
huge organs grinding out paralytic waltzes, swings and 
merry-go-rounds creaking, guns popping incessantly, 
gipsy bands playing, hawkers bellowing, a few dozen 
beer establishments built amongst the trees, and sur- 
rounded with mighty outworks of round tables, benches, 
and chairs ; coffee-houses, waxworks, menageries ; fan- 
toccini acrobats ; tanks occupied by divers, who grin 
hideously through their glass masks at the public 
gathered round little green bull's eyes let into the sides 
of the cistern; fancy, I say, Hyde Park invaded and 
held by an army of showmen and purveyors of creature 
comforts ! "Would such a colony be able to earn its 
existence during two-thirds of the year in our over- 
grown metropolis ? I think not; but it does in Vienna ; 
nay more, it makes a very good thing of its squatting 
season. On Sundays and Saints' clays the Wiirstl or 
Sausage Prater is crammed, and the shows are beset all 
day long by crowds of children ranging from six to sixty 
in age; this, however, is but natural, considering the 
eagerness with which all classes of Viennese plunge into 
diversion. But the wonder is that on the off-days, the 
busy week-days, none of the booths or shows are shut 
up ; on the contrary, they are wide open and as noisy as 
ever. Their proprietors find that it pays them well to 
keep going, oven on Fridays ; and so the drums beat, 



THE "WURSTL PEATEE. 21 

the organs grunt and screech, the tame wild beasts moan 
and growl, the fat lady puts on her scanty ball dress, the 
roundabouts revolve, and the beer mugs are replenished, 
month in, month out, all through the spring, summer, 
and early autumn. The pleasures of this vivacious fair 
have passed into a proverb. Lustig wie im Prater, say the 
Viennese, when they desire to typify the acme of joviality. 
Suppose we take a stroll, on a quiet day, through 
this place of blissful resort. When we arrive at the 
end of the stately Prater-strasse, which cuts the suburbs 
of Leopoldstadt into two unequal sections, the Prater 
faces us. It is pierced by three apparently endless 
drives, entered under the stone and iron arches of 
the Yerbindungs-Bahn, or railway connecting the North- 
ern and Southern lines. The avenue stretching away to 
the right as far as the Danube, nearly four miles of a 
perfectly straight road, is the fashionable Prater, 
thronged from four to seven P.M. by handsome equi- 
pages, splendidly mounted equestrians, and gaily dressed 
loungers of all ranks and conditions. That diverging 
leftwards is the high road to the Kaisermiihle, the 
Danube Steam Navigation Company's wharves, the 
several boat-club houses j a somewhat monotonous and 
uninteresting thoroughfare. But it is with the centre 
drive that we have to do for this is the Wiirstl Prater. 
You will presently find out by experience why this appe- 
tising name has been bestowed upon it. The first hint 
we obtain of the Sausage Park's specialities is given us by 
the enormous, gaudy coloured placards and bills stuck 
all over the railway arch, announcing natural, unnatural, 
and artificial marvels to us by the dozen. Here are the 



22 THE WURSTL PRATER. 

manifestoes of the Double-headed Infant, the Giffced- 
with-humaii -Intelligence Babbit, the Sister Dwarfs, so 
small that they must be inspected through a powerful 
microscope. Having gathered some extraordinary infor- 
mation from these documents, we enter the joyful pre- 
cincts,, and are soon deep in the turmoil of the place. 
Let me call your attention to the menagerie of Signer 
Coccio, who, if we may judge from the illustrations 
adorning the front of his establishment, must have 
captured the more ferocious of his company In a series of 
personal combats highly creditable to his physical vigour 
and moral intrepidity. Behold a painting representing 
the subjugation of two savage crocodiles by Signer 
Coccio, an athlete of surpassing beauty and fashionable 
costume surely that seedy -looking man seated by the 
entrance, smoking a short pipe and teasing an infuriated 
baboon chained to a pole, cannot be the original ot this 
Herculean Adonis. On inquiry, we find he is I sup- 
pose he was younger and dressed in his best when he 
conquered the crocodiles. One of these amphibia, whose 
cheery expression of countenance is In no way dashed 
by the fact that he is crunching a native child between 
his teeth, crouches at Signor Coccio' s feet. One is 
painfully struck by the quantity and consistence of the 
blood spirting from his jaws. Close to him stands a 
French staff officer, waving Ms sword bravely; other- 
wise he appears more ornamental than useful; a dis- 
tracted Arab matron completes the group. Behind the 
triumphant Coccio the other crocodile is being led away 
to captivity by slaves, amiable resignation beaming from 
eyery lineament of his kindly face. A full-rigged ship 



THE WCRSTL PEATEE. 23 

of about ninety guns lies at anchor in the background. 
How did she get so far up the Nile ? Only Providence 
and Signer Coccio know. The scene of this thrilling 
action is enriched by several mutilated corpses, the dis- 
jecta membra of the subdued animal's early breakfast. 
Hard by this picture is another, showing how Coccio 
brought a raging Bengal tiger to a sense of his situation 
by firing a small pocket-pistol down his throat. The 
tiger is balancing himself on his hind legs, and there is 
a good deal of jungle about. A rivederla, Signor Coccio; 
e un vero gagliardo ! Next we come to a lofty circular 
shed, whence proceeds a booming and grating noise, in 
which I recognise the disfigured outline of Strauss. 
Inside this building may be seen a colossal Noah's Ark, 
presided over by an Egyptian god sixteen feet high, 
round the base of whose pedestal gyrate the different 
animal species, bestridden by men, women, and children, 
all in a high state of delight. Talk of Una and the lion ! 
there is a little fair-haired maid of five riding a grizzly 
bear of truculent mien, whilst her baby brother is borne 
round the ring by a spotted hyaena ; papa proudly sits a 
cameleopard, and the rest of the family are mounted on 
swans, unicorns, dragons, and other such small deer. 
Artificially the birds coo and whistle, the domestic 
animals bleat and low, the ferce natures roar and howl, 
whilst ever the hoarse organ acts as chorus. 

Even on ordinary week-days the "Wiirstl Prater 
presents a highly animated appearance, something like 
that of Chalk Farm at "Whitsuntide in the good old days 
when Primrose Hill was environed by green fields, and 
its tunnel a fearsome and mysterious object to holiday- 



24 THE WURSTL PRATER. 

making children. Temptations of all sorts assail the 
lounger as he strolls along the broad avenues leading 
from the several gates to the chief beer-hall. There is a 
stage upon which stands a red and white chalet, into the 
penetralia of which, veiled by heavy hangings, you can 
peep furtively, catching a glimpse of black-looking cranks, 
wheels, levers, and other grim apparatus. What is it that 
is done in that dark retreat ? Surely it must be the 
torture-chamber of the refreshment-department, fitted up 
for the punishment of recalcitrant waiters, cheating con- 
tractors, pickpockets, and members of the swell-mob. 
'Not at all. It is a typographical establishment, to the 
presiding genius of which (a remarkably pretty girl) you 
may deliver up, if you list, your white pocket-handker- 
chief, to receive it back in a couple of minutes enriched 
with a complete view of St. Stephen's Cathedral that 
shall endure for all time. Hard by, a fortune-teller, of 
the most modern fashion, has set up a vaticinatory 
machine, somewhat too scientific to be consistent with 
superstition. There is a high bronze pedestal^ upon 
which is fixed an upright glass tube, some eighteen 
inches long, filled with a mystic liquor curiously resem- 
bling slightly dirty water ; above this is a letter-box. 
The High Priest of the Oracle contained in this glass 
tube, a weird personage, in velveteens and corduroys 
by birth, I should say, a native of the debatable land 
between Hernals and Lerchenfeld takes with a certain 
solemnity your ten-kreuzer note (2d. sterling) and 
inserts it in a slit cut in the top of the letter-box ; upon 
which a small denion ; hitherto lying perdu under the 
shade of the said box, dives slowly down to the bottom 



THE WURSTL PRATER. 25 

of the tube, and ascends majestically to his former 
retreat. This thrilling ceremony having been performed, 
the High Priest opens the box and takes out of it a 
letter, freshly wafered and addressed, which he delivers 
to you; and in this letter you find your Fate, in the 
shape of a male or female photograph, as the case may 
be, and a printed prognostication of all that will happen 
to you if you don't take care ! At the bottom of the 
formula (how characteristic of Austrian soothsaying !) 
are displayed the five numbers upon which you are 
recommended to "play in the lotteries." At least a 
dozen booths have been erected by proprietors of a 
sporting game that is a cross between quoits, pitch and 
toss, and " knock 'ein downs.' 5 The player, for a con- 
sideration, is furnished with six fiat thin metal discs, 
exactly fitting a number of circular holes in a frame 
fixed in a vertical position about three yards from the 
line of delivery. If he succeed in pitching a disc so 
justly that it falls into a hole, he receives a prize ; if 
not, so much the better for the spirited proprietor of the 
establishment. It must be a game full of feverish 
excitement, for I notice that the booths devoted to it are 
always crowded, and that men spend hours in fruitless 
attempts to attain success some of the prizes being 
gorgeous workboxes, accordions, and articles equally 
desirable. The gingerbread and "zuckerbaekerei" tents 
are very splendid affairs, profusely adorned with eatable 
images of religious signification, Our Saviour of the Five 
Wounds and Mary of the Bleeding Heart being the 
favourite comestibles, indigestible enough to fulfil pur- 
poses of penance. There are one or two large gymnasia, 



26 AUSTRIAN RACING. 

well provided with trapezes, upon which the Turner 
disport themselves when it is not too hot. There are 
drinking temples, in which beauteous damsels, decolletecs 
to distraction, dispense iced soda-water and raspberry- 
juice at a penny a beaker. There are flower booths, 
inhabited by other beauteous damsels, arrayed in gay- 
coloured peasant costumes, who will make you up a 
bouquet from sixpence to two pounds in price. It is a 
sort of chronic Kermesse, bar the goats, cows, fowl, 
baskets of vegetables, and servants for hire. 

"Whenever I have gone through the agreeable mockery 
so far as the enjoyment of sport is concerned of 
attending an Austrian race-meeting, the question has 
invariably suggested itself to my mind, "How is it, and 
why, that this people, which has not the slightest sym- 
pathy with any public game involving a display of supreme 
strength and skill, and which has not any compre- 
hension of such a sport, voluntarily puts itself to great 
expense, trouble, and personal inconvenience in order to 
witness horse-racing, an amusement which requires for 
its appreciation a greater variety and exactitude of 
knowledge than any other sport?" It is a curious 
characteristic of the Fatherland, indeed, that its sons 
entertain a positive dislike, mingled with philosophic 
contempt, for such athletic games as Englishmen, French- 
men, and even Italians delight in ; and regard physical 
exertion as a "waste of force" wholly unjustified by the 
amount of pleasure to be derived from it. In short, 
they are utterly wanting in that "Lebensgliickseligkcit," 
or rapturous enjoyment of vigorous vitality that prompts 
the Anglo-Saxon or the Latin to strain his muscles and 



GERMAN PASTIMES. 27 

expand Ms lungs in violent efforts. 'The object to "be 
attained being neither increment of wealth nor advance- 
ment in rank, but simply hearty, honest pastime, the 
effort is altogether incomprehensible to the too logical 
German mind. I think I may venture to assert that I 
know my German cousins and their country pretty 
well ; but throughout years of residence amongst them, 
and intimate acquaintance with their habits of life, 
I have never yet seen the youth of Almayne play at 
any game whatever except cards and billiards. Shoot- 
ing at a mark is very popular, certainly, throughout 
Germany; but that is a description of sport in which 
the weakest of sinew is frequently the victor, marks- 
manship depending rather upon keenness of sight than 
upon physical strength or activity. There is not, to 
the best of my belief, a tennis-court, racket-ground, 
or cricket-field in all Germany ; few men row ; nobody 
save the members of the aristocracy ever thinks of 
riding; nobody wrestles, boxes, or plays at quarter- 
staff a favourite pastime even in the French provinces. 
There is scarcely a pair of battledores, a hoop, or a trap, 
bat and ball to be purchased in Vienna, Berlin, or Munich, 
let alone the smaller Teutonic cities. Girls and boys 
know nothing about skipping-ropes, or Les Graces, 
archery, or hockey ; foot-ball is about as common as the 
trident and net of the Eoman gladiators ; and even 
marbles, mildest of juvenile playthings, are strangers to 
the land. When German children go out in the country 
for a holiday with their parents, they walk hand-in-hand 
in an orderly and spiritless manner, talking, I verily 
believe, about cube-roots, metaphysics, and the spectrum 



28 GERMAN BOYS. 

analysis or, if girls, of their dresses and the amiable 
weaknesses of their governess. Should some uproarious 
and uncontrollable youngster break the ranks, and 
attempt to run a few yards upon a tempting piece of 
grass which , by the way, is always "streng verboten," 
or strictly forbidden, in every public park his parents 
summon him to their side with cries of agony, lest he 
should overheat himself, or, more horrible still, get out 
of breath ! I have had youthful relatives at German 
schools, and they have pitifully assured me that, during 
the hours allowed for recreation, none of their school- 
fellows would ever play with them at anything, and that 
as for fighting, that surpassing delight of the British 
boy, such a thing was never dreamt of, however bitter 
the provocation or keen the rivalry. 1 recapitulate all 
these facts only in support of my assertion that Germans 
take no interest whatever in what Englishmen and 
Frenchmen understand by "sport." How can they, 
brought up as they are ? True, at college they arc 
ready enough for " Schlagerei," duels, ninety-nine of 
which out of a hundred are mere farces, whilst all are 
contemptible ; but such trumpery exhibitions of hobble- 
dehoy bumptiousness do not assuredly belong to the 
category of athletic games. As a race they know rather 
less about racing than Laplanders or Venetians. Is it 
surprising, therefore, that they should discover no excite- 
ment in the events of a spring meeting, or that they 
should contemplate the thundering rush past the win- 
ning-post with much such a dull wonder as a deaf and 
dumb man might experience during an animated Parlia- 
mentary debate ? As for the German ladies blessings 
on tlieir amiable, passionless mediocrity ! they care 



GERMAX GIRLS. 29 

more for the sentimental sausage copiously moistened 
with, the soul-soothing beer, than for all the horse-races 
recorded in history. I have seen these dear and maw- 
kish creatures sitting in grand-stands engaged in stead- 
fast knitting, and never raising their gentle eyes from 
their work, even when the clump of straining horses 
came thundering by in the "finish," a few feet from their 
pins and wool. I think they secretly like going to races, 
not only because it affords them an opportunity for 
pitting their toilettes against those of the intimate 
friends they call a Du," but inasmuch as it furnishes a 
pretext for a bout of eating and drinking, extra or sup- 
plementary to the five or six regular meals they consume 
daily. Dare I say that fashion and food are the alpha 
and omega of an average German girl's existence; every- 
thing else 3 including needlework, religion, and the tender 
passion, being Nebensache a thing of minor import- 
ance? Setting truth before prudence, I am afraid I must 
say it, at the risk of general reprobation by the fair of 
the Fatherland. At all events, they are anything but 
a sportive," and are as much out of their place at a race 
meeting as a guinea-pig would be in a rat-pit, or roast 
veal and plum sauce at a Templars' call-supper. 

The German race is a wise, brave, thrifty, persevering, 
philosophical, industrious, instructed people ; but its 
greatest admirer cannot with truth assert that it 
knows how to dine. In fact it does not dine. It 
eats with a frequency and copiousness that have 
no parallel amongst the consumptive specialities of 
other European nations ; but the art of dining as 
realised in France, England, and Russia, is "to yt 
unknowe." There is scarcely a city in the Fatherland 



30 GERMAN COOKEBY. 

with which I am not acquainted ; and, with the honour- 
able exception of Frankfort-on-Maine, which can boast 
of possessing the very best hotel on the Continent, from 
a gastronomical point of view, there is not one, according 
to my belief, in which the requirements of the cultivated 
stomach can be met in a satisfactory manner. The Ger- 
man notion of dinner or rather of a meal is the maxi- 
mum amount of food for the minimum amount of cost. 
It matters little what sort of food, how cooked, or how 
served, so long as it is plentiful, and cheap. The 
average German's feelings with respect to nourishment 
was admirably illustrated some time ago in the u Flie~ 
gende Blatter,' 5 by a drawing of a Bavarian bourgeois at 
table, who, the " Mittagsessen " being at an end, is asked 
by his host whether he has dined well. He lays his 
hand upon his diaphragm, and replies, " No, not well ; 
for it does not hurt me yet ! " The national cuisine is, 
of course, what the popular proclivities have made it 
gross, coarse, greasy, massive and incoherent. Carving 
is an accomplishment as unfamiliar to the inhabitants of 
the Fatherland as it is to the Ashantees. Beef is served 
to you at the leading German restaurants in chunks, 
veal in blocks, mutton in lumps. Fowls are split and 
quartered, apparently with a hatchet, before they are 
brought to table. The accessories of the board are of 
the rudest, most primeval description. You may count 
on the fingers of both hands the hotels and dining-rooms 
of Berlin and Tienna in which saltspoons are provided. 
I have positively never seen a fish-knife in any restaurant 
in Germany. Such an implement would be regarded by 
the majority of Germans, even belonging to the higher 



A PERPLEXING- FISH-KXIFE. 31 

classes, "with as much, surprise as a battle-axe or a 
bootjack ranged by the side of the ordinary a convert.'' 
I was dining some years ago at the house of the 
Governor of Heligoland, the service of whose table was 
in every respect admirable. Amongst the guests were 
a Serene Highness, a Court Marshal, and the chief aide- 
de-camp of a Eoyal Prince, who had just returned from 
the grand tour. This gentleman, whose breast was 
covered with the complimentary decorations bestowed 
upon him during his pilgrimage from Court to Court, 
sat opposite me ; and I noticed that, shortly after he sat 
down to table, he took up his fish-knife and regarded it 
with an inquiring gaze. Presently he was served with 
the turbot, which he proceeded to eat with the aid of his 
steel knife, leaving the silver instrument in its place by 
his plate ! "When ice-pudding was handed round an 
hour later, a sort of " Eureka ! 3J look illumined his 
manly visage ; he grasped his fish-knife, and with it 
complacently conveyed the " nesselrode " to his mouth. 
Christopher Columbus, when he cracked the egg, could 
not have been more thoroughly penetrated with the 
conviction that he was equal to the occasion than was 
evidently Count von Wartensleben. Finger-glasses have 
been largely introduced into German society of late 
years ; only Germans wash out their mouths with the 
contents of their "bowl," instead of rinsing their fingers 
therein ! Of all the strange performances that astonish 
an Englishman on the first occasion of Ms presence at a 
German meal, this, and the humorous practice of 
combing one's hair at table with a small-tooth comb 
which I have seen gracefully executed by hundreds of 



32 VIENNESE RESTAURANTS. 

gentlemen holding high social rank are perhaps the 
most startling. But they are really quite in keeping 
with the quality of German food, the method of its 
preparation, and the manner of its service. 

If there be one city, however, in which this peculiarity 
of the noble Teutonic race is more distressingly developed 
than in another, it is Yienna. In Vienna you can dine 
less than even in Berlin. The Prussian capital possesses 
one restaurant, " under the Limetrees," kept by a 
Frenchman, where you can dine as well as at Bignon ? s 
or the Windham. Vienna does not own even an 
" honourable exception. 5 ' I have tried them all. The 
most extraordinary experience I achieved during my 
long and painful researches amongst the Viennese 
restaurants, was that which occurred to me a few years 
ago at an establishment in the Wieden. If you went 
to church expecting to hear the Scriptures solemnly 
expounded, it would surprise you to find the nave 
occupied by a troupe of acrobats, and a strolling empiric 
dispensing bread-pills and tinted water from the pulpit. 
Visiting a ship of war, it might strike you as odd if you 
found a menagerie established on the quarter-deck and 
the captain engaged in taming a couple of lions in the 
foretop. An undertaker who sold toffy and lemon-rock, 
or an oculist in whose consulting-room you should dis- 
cover, displayed for sale on a marble counter, a fine 
selection of cMtterlings and lambs 5 fry, would probably 
awaken in your mind a mingled sense of perplexity and 
discomfiture. But all these anomalies appear to be 
reasonable, natural, and logical combinations of circum- 
stances when they are contrasted with the astounding 



AN ANACHRONISTIC RESTAURANT. 33 

phenomena presented by that restaurant in the Wieclen. 
The surpassing wonder of the establishment was that, 
being ostensibly and avowedly dedicated to the provision 
of refreshment, edible and potable, you could purchase 
in it almost anything saleable the human mind could 
conceive, short of a firearm or a locomotive, except some- 
thing to eat or drink. I remained there, hungering 
and thirsting, for one hour precisely, without being able 
to obtain even a morsel of bread ; and during that time 
I was invited nay, importuned to become the pos- 
sessor of the following articles : Stockings and socks, 
plain and coloured ; writing-paper and envelopes ; neck- 
ties, simple and complicated ; visiting cards, blue and 
green spectacles, sealing-wax, combs and brushes, lolli- 
pops (can one be said to eat a lollipop or drink it ?), cigar- 
tubes and pipes, parasols, garters, fans and perfumery, 
Brummagem jewellery of incredible variety and worth- 
lessness, walking-sticks, plaster figuring pens, lucifer 
matches, and stay laces. These were some of the things 

proffered to me by Herr when I went to him 

yearning for supper. I asked for bread, and he gave me 
a comb ; for fish, and he gave me a stay lace ! Could I 
have satisfied my appetite with garters and sealing-wax, 
washed down with perfumery, I might have come away 
in a state of joyous repletion ; or a surfeit of stockings, 
had textile fabrics of that class been a pabulum to which 
my interior economy had accustomed itself, might have 
brought about in me that satisfactory assurance of ful- 
ness to which the Bavarian gentleman formerly alluded 
to referred when he regretfully observed that " it did 
not hurt him yet." But, the capacity for enjoying these 

VOL. II. D 



3-i A FEIST OF FOLLY. 

matters failing one, I was obliged to depart as hungry 
as I came, and I will back the " restauration " as 
an anomaly against the Two-headed Nightingale or 
any other monstrosity ever exhibited in the Wiirstl 
Prater. 

Of one extraordinary variety of Viennese social enter- 
tainment I deem it my duty to attempt a description 
before concluding this unreasonably lengthy chapter ; I 
refer to the Narrendbend } a sort of maniacal soiree (as 
its title denotes) given yearly by one or other of the 
great artistic associations that abound in the city of the 
Hapsburg. The Festival of Fools is not an institution 
indigenous to the Kaiserstadt. Imported some thirty 
years ago from that perfumed city, Cologne, it took root 
in Yienna, and flourished exceedingly. Indeed, under 
the old regime, it was made the vehicle of expression for 
a thousand quips, jests, and satires some of them biting 
enough against the Government and its agents. In 
times when the columns of the Austrian press were 
closed to political criticism, and when it was " not per- 
mitted 55 to denizens of this Empire, under grievous 
pains and penalties, to comment unfavourably upon, or 
even discuss, the acts of the Administration, these 
Narrenalende were safety-valves through which the 
intelligent, discontented public let off its spare steam. 
Sharp sayings, uttered under the segis of Folly, were 
allowed to pass unnoticed by the tiresome, tyrannical 
authorities, whose cue it systematically was not to inter- 
fere with the mere amusements of the people. Dressed 
as a fool, you might gibe at the Government to your 
heart's content. "What did the Government care for 



A FEAST OF FOLLY. - 35 



that ? If you assumed tie garb of everyday life, and, 
thus attired, took upon yourself to reckon up the 
guardians of the State, that was, literally, quite another 
pair of breeches, and the odds were that you would find 
it out in a singularly unpleasant manner. But the 
Imperial Royal and Apostolic Paternal Police was always 
loth to trespass upon the preserves of Viennese Gremiith- 
lichkeit ; and if a favourite form of that mysterious 
faculty of enjoyment was to poke fun at Cabinet 
Ministers from beneath a Tomfool's cap and bells, why 
tlien the P. P. was conveniently deaf, and " let them 
rave." On a change tout cela now-a-days ; comic 
journals abound in caricatures of Excellencies, and 
political organs bristle with slashing leaders, in which 
the great are roughly handled, not to say roundly 
abused; whilst freedom of opinion and the right of 
its promulgation are established upon so firm a basis 
that the wildest democrat who courts persecution 
scarcely succeeds in achieving notoriety. That this 
mitigated condition of penalties political robs entertain- 
ments of the Narrenabend class of that prohibited 
spice which formerly imparted to them a special flavour, 
is undeniable ; so the Fools Festival which I attended 
during the Carnival of 1868-9 had to depend for its 
success upon sheer fooling ; and excellent fooling it was, 
by my halidom ! 

The festival was held in the Diana Saal, a huge apart- 
ment, now bath, now ball-room, according to the season, 
about twice the size of St. James's HalL On arriving 
in the vestibule of the Saal, the particular Fool with 
whose experiences I am most intimately acquainted was 

D 2 



OD A FEAST OF FOOLS. 

received by a strong guard of the committee there sta- 
tioned to examine his credentials, and test his claims to 
admission into the Eealms of Folly. These officers of 
lunacy were accoutred in gorgeous uniform ; scale body 
armour, the word " Peace " inscribed upon their cuirasses 
casque of about 500 B.C., surmounted by a dove bear- 
ing a breech-loader in its beak epaulettes a la General 
Bourn, i,e. small brass field-pieces bare arms and legs, 
bar gauntlets and greaves and, instead of a spear, or 
lictor's fasciculus, a squirt cannon of the Napoleonic 
sort, warranted to deliver nine thousand fulminating 
shells per minute. Having been " passed through" by 
this formidable outpost, our Fool entered the Saal and 
paid his respects to the worthy Arch-Fool (the President 
of the "Wienermaennergesangverein, Mr. Dumba), whose 
suit of motley, designed by one of Austria's most emi- 
nent historical painters, transformed him for the nonce 
into the seemliest of court jesters a living illustration, 
cut out of a mediaeval Eoyal Household List. After 
exchanging greetings with a baby of six feet four, stiff 
with swaddling clothes, a Eed Indian in his war paint, a 
lively young sawsetter, and an ambulatory anatomical 
museum, by many degrees the nastiest-looking object 
that ever met his gaze, our Fool seated himself at the 
committee table, and looked round him. Surely, the 
strangest sight in the world I The vast apartment, as 
well as the broad galleries by which it is surrounded, 
was filled with beings, apparently, for all the semblance 
they bore to men of the age we live in, belonging to 
Dreamland, or the Domains of Nightmare. From the 
shifting mass of colour occupying the body of the hall 



A FEAST OF FOOLS. O4 

arose a devilish din, made up of hooting, trombones, 
yelling, kettledrums, whistles, gongs, tomtoms, ophi- 
cleides, tambourines, bells, laughter, street cries, and 
fifty other undefinable noises. To describe one-half the 
eccentricities of the scene would be to write a portly 
volume. I must content myself with sketching a few 
stray wonders as they flit across my memory. Let us 
take the nearest table. There sit the following lunatics : 
a man respectably clad in a dark shooting suit, but with 
face, hair, beard, hands, and feet dyed a bright scarlet ; 
another enveloped from head to foot in a garment of 
peacock's feathers (the eye of the feather only) ; a school 
girl, in bib and tucker, with as luxuriant a pair of 
whiskers as a lieutenant-colonel in the Guards, and a 
gigantic metal syringe ! Here is Diogenes, with his 
lantern, in a great puff and pother, seeking, we sup- 
pose, the traditional " honest man." Not so; he is 
merely looking for a singer a search topsy-turvy 
enough, to be sure, within the own jurisdiction of the 
Wienermaennergesangverein. "What has this gentleman 
done, that one side of his correctly-cut evening suit 
should be bright blue whilst the other is a ripe orange 
colour ? One goes not thus into salons. Neither did I 
ever before see a finger-post walking about, with one 
arm pointing to Moscow and the other to Prague. Be- 
hold a bishop, with mitre, crozier, dalmatic, and stole, or 
whatever it is, all complete ; only think of that in Aus- 
tria in Austria, I say again and of the inference ! 

Where's the police ? " An it please ye, Sir Fool, the 
Concordat hath no might in this our realm." So mote 
it be elsewhere than in the Fools 3 kingdom ! 



38 A DOPPELGANGEB. 

At the Narrenalend to which. I am especially refer- 
ring several official, political, and financial bigwigs were 
present this one with a penny whistle at his button- 
hole, that one with a child's drum slung round his neck, 
a third wearing a tinsel crown, and so forth ; amongst 
others an eminent Viennese banker, Baron Henikstein, 
whose face and figure were at that time as thoroughly 
institutions of the Austrian capital as the Stephanskirche 
itself. Two or three humorists belonging to the artist 
world determined to mystify the great financier, whose 
presence of mind was almost as remarkable as the length 
of his whiskers, or his indifference to changes of tempe- 
rature, and set about to discover a man of exactly the 
same stature and tournure as the Baron. Haying found 
what they wanted, they caused a wig and beard to be 
made by a celebrated perruquier in the Graben, well 
acquainted with the Baron's peculiarities ; found out 
exactly what dress Henikstein would wear, even to the 
toy emblem destined to signify his adhesion to the prin- 
ciples of the festival ; drilled their Doppelganger care- 
fully in the attitudes, gait, and ' gestures of his model ; 
made up his face so artistically that his faith in his own 
identity was shaken; and turned him into the great 
assembly room 3 about ten minutes before the real banker 
arrived at the Diana Saal. Baron Henikstein was about 
as popular a man as can well be conceived, and his pro- 
totype was of course received with cordial greetings by 
hundreds of the assembled Fools. Presently, to every- 
body's astonishment, the first Baron having left the 
principal room by the supper-room door, a second entered 
from the ante- chamber. The Doppelganger had been 



A DOPPELGlNGER. 39 

instructed upon no account to meet Baron Henikstein face 
to face till the end of the evening, and not even to stay 
in the same room with him. The originators of the joke 
kept their accomplice, of course, posted up respecting 
the Baron's movements, and were successful in dodging 
the real Simon Pure for several hours. The worst of it 
was that the mock Baron affected to chime in with the 
humour of the evening, uttering scandalous statements 
without number, pouring forth sarcasms upon Church, 
State, and society, which were hailed with equal surprise 
and delight by his auditors ; whilst the real Baron con- 
tinued to be the perfect gentleman he always was, in no 
way altering his demeanour to suit the occasion, in con- 
sequence of which he was set down as the imitation by 
a large majority of those who alternated between the two 
heroes of the evening, frantically endeavouring to dis- 
cover which was the genuine and which the false 
Baron. At length a meeting was brought about. The 
two bankers advanced towards one another, each followed 
by a troop of believers, and a scene ensued quite beyond 
description. I believe the mystification ended by the 
real Baron owning himself to be an impostor, and the 
Doppelganger being carried triumphantly round the 
building. Perhaps so complete a practical joke was never 
got up before or since. 

As the evening advanced organised pageants flowed 
into the already crowded room, and were received with 
frantic outbursts of applause. The first was a naval 
display. Preceded by a full band of marines, in which, 
however, the drum element was painfully prominent, the 
Ship of Folly rolled in, a banner with a strange device 



40 PROCESSIONAL FOOLS. 

floating at its mainmast head. It was guarded by a 
complete ship's company, officers and men, over a hun- 
dred strong, fully armed; and made a gallant show. 
Having completed the circuit of the Saal, amidst uni- 
versal acclamation, the ship was brought to an anchor 
under the cross gallery, and the crew dismissed to 
"skylark." Fiddles, bagpipes, clarinets, and banjoes 
heralded the next procession : Bohemian emigrants, 
chiefly handicraftsmen, headed by life-like impersona- 
tions of the great Panslavists, Kieger and Palacky, 
and bearing high on a velvet cushion the holy crown 
of WenceslauSj followed by the double-tailed Bohemian 
lion, tenderly led by a brace of Czech bakers. I dis- 
tinctly heard the royal beast anathematise one of his 
ragamuffin escort, in language as vigorous as it was 
figurative, for treading on one of Ms tails. It would be 
hard to find such a ruffianly company in the back slums 
of Liverpool as that rioting, swearing, singing and fight- 
ing in the train of Leo ; rags, dirt, and the tints of 
inebriety stamped the men as confirmed blackguards, 
whilst a cachet of utter degradation put the social stand- 
ing of the mock women on a decided, if not an over- 
moral footing. Tawdry finery, jingling brass ornaments, 
and liberal exposure of highly muscular charms ; such 
were the principal characteristics of the dancing Bo- 
hemiennes attached to the Czechish cortege. The third 
and longest procession consisted of a triumphal Abys- 
sinian demonstration. Prester John, in all the pomp of 
savage royalty, surrounded by Ms harenij and attended 
by his Court, strode round the hall, uttering strange 
cries, and clattering his fantastic weapons in a terrible 



DRAMATIC FOOLS. 41 

manner. Amongst Ms suite paced solemnly a huge 
elephant and a still more gigantic camel. Four stalwart 
negroes bore on their shoulders a gilded cage, containing 
alack and well-a-day ! an English prisoner, dressed in 
the very latest foreign-English fashion, and, as far as 
could be judged from cursory inspection through the 
bars of his den, in pretty good condition and excellent 
spirits. The whole of this costly pageant was got up 
with such a minute and artistic attention to detail, and 
the principal characters were so admirably supported 
(Theodoras was personified by Heinrich Brandeis, one of 
Vienna's young lions of finance and salon & "curled 
darling" of the ladies, and thoroughly good fellow), 
that it proved the triumph of the evening. As soon as 
the sensation created by this magnificent spectacle had 
somewhat subsided, and the procession itself had dis- 
solved into the body of the room, the special perform- 
ances of the Choral Association were announced for com- 
mencement by triple roll of drum. The programme was a 
long and humorous one, of which one of the most remark- 
able features was the performance of a spectral drama, 
intituled, "Der Miiller und sein Kind " (the Miller and 
his Child), which is invariably given at all the Viennese 
theatres on All Saints Day. It is one of those plays 
Richardsonian, in which everybody becomes a ghost by the 
dagger and bowl process, including, of course, the three 
leading personages, namely, the Miller, his Child, and her 
Lover. On this occasion these three characters were af- 
flicted each with a chronic indisposition. The Miller's 
manly voice was broken by constant hiccoughs ; his Child 
coughed out her woes, and the Lover suffered under 



42 END OP THE FESTIVAL. 

such a shocking cold in the head that, weary of sneezing 
out his passion, he was driven to express the tenderest 
feelings of his nature through the medium of a trom- 
bone. 

The fun and riot continued till an early hour in the 
morning, when groups of acquaintances adjourned to the 
various cafes, to "see it out" with punch and grog, 
singing and shouting, cigars and coffee. The Festival 
of Fools for 1868 was over, without a hitch, a quarrel, 
or an accident. I wonder how many black eyes and 
fines at the police-courts would have been the conse- 
quences of a similar orgy in London. Decidedly, we 
English take our pleasure sadly ; and if we overstep the 
decorous limits of mitigated melancholy we generally 
run into the other extreme, and break out into violent 
excess. It would be scarcely possible to induce fifteen 
hundred respectable Englishmen to see that there was 
any fun in feigning dementia for a whole night ; per- 
haps it is as well that we are somewhat obtuse in this 
particular. All I can say is, that Austrians take to 
Folly with a will, imitate it admirably, and dovff i fight 
over it. 



CHAPTER II. 
LIFE IN BERLIN. 

WHEN I first made the acquaintance of the Prussian 
capital, some nineteen years ago, the city of the Little 
Bear was one of most dismal, dull, badly-payed and 
backward of first-class continental towns. Its population 
was at that time about six hundred thousand, including 
the garrison, and was surpassed in numbers by that of 
the Austrian Kaiserstadt. Now it amounts to consider- 
ably over thirteen hundred thousand, according to the 
latest official census, whilst Yienna has but lately 
achieved her million. During the interim, however, 
Berlin has undergone a transformation little short of the 
marvellous. Its older quqrtiers have been in great part 
rebuilt, and new ones have sprung up in every direction, 
laid out and built, in the majority of cases, with consi- 
derable taste and even splendour. Owing to the custom, 
prevalent throughout Northern Germany, of living inflats, 
modern Berlin houses are lofty and massive, frequently 
exhibiting great architectural merit, and nearly always 
presenting an imposing aspect. Stucco faced, with lofty 
porticos and broad balconies that convey the impression 
of being stone ; elaborately decorated with external 
ornament, and the uniformity of their general physiog- 



44 BERLIN HOUSES. 

nomy agreeably relieved, on two floors at least, "by 
spacious loggie, or gigantic bow-windows, these huge 
mansions, in each of which from ten to twenty families 
are comfortably stowed away, have all the outward 
seeming of palaces. Indeed, they are apt to delude the 
foreigner, strolling for the first time through the streets 
of western and southern Berlin, into the conviction that 
the whole aristocracy, hereditary and financial, of Prussia 
must have gravitated from the provinces of the monarchy 
to the banks of the Spree, and there built for itself town 
houses on a scale suggested by the pdlazsi of the great 
Italian nobles in Eome, Florence, Milan, Venice, and 
Naples. Nothing could be more erroneous than such a 
deduction, drawn from the outward appearance of these 
stately piles. They are by no means the property of 
blue-blooded patricians, many-acred pillars of the throne, 
gifted by nature with quarterings unnumbered, and, 
from a Court point of view, u born " to an almost incon- 
ceivable extent ; nor do they belong to millionaire manu- 
facturers, nor to the prehensile and assimilative children 
of Israel who, in Berlin as in most other capitals with 
which I am familiar, hold undisputed sway over the rich 
realms of finance. Builders, contractors, and speculators 
are their owners, in nine cases out of ten ; and for the 
most part they are heavily mortgaged. The Modern 
Athenians do not build or buy houses for their own 
accommodation, but in order that other people should 
live in them, paying the highest obtainable rents, bound 
down by leases of amazing one-sidedness need I say 
that the one side is that which exclusively favours the 
landlords ? obliged to execute all imaginable repairs at 



BERLIN PALACES. 45 

their own expense, and to submit to countless irksome 
stipulations, the least violation or neglect of any one 
condition invalidating the lease and rendering the tenant 
liable to be turned out into the street with more than 
lightning-like promptitude. 

Not only does the Teutonic nobility, great and small, 
punctually abstain for many cogent and unchallengeable 
reasons from owning houses in the Prussian I beg its 
pardon, the German capital, but it manages to totter 
along pretty comfortably from the cradle to the grave 
without ever residing for longer than a few weeks at a 
stretch in that singularly expensive city. Four lustres 
ago, I ascertained accurately the number of the palaces 
belonging to and inhabited by representatives of the 
ancient Prussian, Markish, Pomeranian, Silesian, Ehen- 
ish, and "Westphalian families, within the precincts of 
the "Royal Resident." I found myself able to complete 
their tale upon the fingers of one hand. There were, in 
fact, but five such palaces; and, to the best of my belief, 
there are no more at the present day. One a ducal man- 
sion was disposed of about six years ago by its illus- 
trious owner on the ground that he could not afford to keep 
it for the sake of inhabiting it during the three months' 
Berlin season. His Serenity the Duke of Ratibor had 
not occupied it for more than a twelvemonth before he 
parted with it because, despite his exalted rank, he had 
been ruthlessly assessed for income-tax during one of 
his winter sojourns in the capital; and the inflexible 
Fiscus peremptorily refused to allow his claim for exemp- 
tion, although it was based upon the touching fact that he 
already paid income-tax in the province wherein his 



46 THE KADZIVILL PALACE. 

estates and residential castle were situate. To pay 
double income-tax for the privilege of living under his 
own roof in Berlin, as well as in Silesia, was more than 
this potent and wealthy peer could make up his mind to ; 
so he got rid of his town-house, realising an uncom- 
monly handsome sum of ready cash by the transaction. 
About the same time, Prince Eadzivill also sold his 
spacious, old-fashioned palace in the Wilhelm-strasse to 
the Prussian State, which promptly renovated it from 
roof to basement, furnished it handsomely, and handed 
it over to Prince von Bismarck, by him to be occupied 
rent-free so long as he should continue to hold the offices 
of Imperial Chancellor and German Minister of Foreign 
Affairs. In its principal first-floor saloon formerly the 
ball-room of the Eadzivills were held the meetings of 
the great Berlin Congress during the broiling summer 
of 1878 ; hard by that gorgeous apartment, in a small 
reception-room, the " Eealm-Dog," a huge hound occu- 
pying the distinguished and confidential position of 
permanent body-guard to the Apostle of Blood and Iron, 
sprang at the throat of Alexander Michailovich, Prince 
de Gortchakoff, upon the occasion of that statesman's visit 
of ceremony to the German Chancellor a day or two 
before the opening of the Congress and would undoubt- 
edly have throttled the venerable diplomatist but for 
the prompt intervention of the master of the house. 

Although Prince Eadzivill had no reason to complain 
of the price paid to him for his quaint old family resi- 
dence, greed of gain was by no means the motive that 
inspired him to part with it. He is enormously wealthy, 
and, for a rich man, tolerably indifferent to " filthy 



THE EADZIYILL FAMILY. 47 

lucre ?? one to whom fifty thousand pounds more or 
less would certainly not constitute a paramount induce- 
ment to enter into any business arrangement inconsis- 
tent with his dignity. But, ever since the commence- 
ment of hostilities between the Prussian State and the 
Eoman Church hostilities that lasted without inter- 
mission for nearly twelve years the position of the 
Eadzivills, one of the greatest Catholic houses in the 
Monarchy, has been a painful and embarrassing one. 
The present head of the family is a godson of the Em- 
peror William. His father, the Kaiser's namesake and 
dear personal friend, his senior by only three days, the 
favourite companion of his boyhood and trusted coun- 
sellor of his old age, was, up to the day of his death in 
1870, the only living man, not of royal blood, privileged 
to address his Majesty by the familiar " thou " of Ger- 
man brotherhood. The intimacy of these two illustrious 
grey-beards, which endured unbroken throughout more 
than half a century, was rendered all the closer by 
sorrowful remembrances of old family troubles, common 
to both. The Emperor's first love had been a Eadzivill 
if I mistake not, a younger sister of Prince William 
Eadzivill one of the most beautiful and accomplished 
ladies of her day, whom her royal adorer passionately 
desired to make his wife. , He was, however, heir-pre- 
sumptive to the Prussian throne, a circumstance which 
rendered the obstacles to the wished-for marriage insur- 
mountable. They were two ; the Princess was a Roman 
Catholic and not born in the purple. Diversity of creed 
had, therefore, come between the Hohenzollern and 
Eadzivill in early life, without, however, severing the 



48 THE BASCZINSZI PALACE. 

bonds of amity uniting them. It was destined, under 
the guise of a political struggle, to render those bonds 
irksome to both houses, through no fault of either, but 
rather by the force of circumstances beyond their control. 
When the May Laws came to be enforced, amongst their 
first victims were two Eadzivills, the Princes Vladislav 
and Edmund, driven into exile by the prescriptions of 
those unnecessarily oppressive statutes. One was a Jesuit 
priest the other a prelate of the Papal household ; and 
so, to escape persecution, they were compelled to quit 
their native country. Under these circumstances, and 
others which I refrain from alluding to in this place, it 
was by no means surprising that the head of the Eadzi- 
vills availed himself of the first opportunity presenting 
itself to him for disposing of his Berlin palace, which, 
indeed, had been closed to society for several years before 
it passed into the possession of the State. 

Another of the five mansions which I took cognizance 
of nineteen years ago, as being the property of the noble- 
men residing in them to the exclusion of any other 
tenant, has also been acquired by the German Govern- 
ment, pulled down, and the new Houses of Imperial 
Parliament are being erected upon its site. This was the 
Easczinski Palace, so named after its owner, a patrician 
of large fortune and the owner of a picture gallery 
renowned throughout Europe. It was an ugly building, 
facing or rather, defacing the eastern side of the 
magnificent Kaiserplatz, in the centre of which stands 
the most hideous monument in the universe ; and its 
replacement by a stately and ornate edifice will be a 
great gain to Berlin, 



BERLIN" MANSIONS. 49 

Amongst the acquisitions made by Prussian territorial 
magnates, as it were to fill up the vacancies caused by 
the transactions above alluded to, the most splendid and 
costly is the Eomberg mansion in the Wilhelm-strasse, 
purchased by Count Otho von Stolberg, upon his quitting 
the diplomatic career and accepting office as Vice- Presi- 
dent of the Prussian Ministry, and popularly known as 
the "Stolberg Palace. 3 ' Prince Frederick of Hohenzollern 
a cadet of the Sigmaringen branch, and colonel of the 
Guard Dragoon regiment in which his elder brother, the 
Prince of Roumania, served his military apprenticeship 
set up house upon his marriage, and owns a really 
handsome and commodious town residence in which he 
and his pretty young wife, nee Tour and Taxis, dis- 
pense a tasteful and generous hospitality. Several of 
the banking and stock-jobbing nouveau riches have also 
built themselves gorgeous palaces of marble, stone, and 
"art" bricks, inlaid with mosaics, graffiti, and I know 
not what mural decorations beside ; such houses as, for 
instance, those of Borsig and Prinzheim, which count 
amongst the " sights" of the capital, and altogether 
eclipse the modest mansions of the Emperor, Crown- 
Prince, Princes Carl and Albrecht, and Prince of the 
Netherlands. But these highly ornate edifices being 
owned by persons who, according to the canons of Prus- 
sian court etiquette, have never been "born" at all, and 
therefore can scarcely be said to exist, do not count 
amongst the residential institutions of the German 
capital, representing, however inadequately, the great 
landowning interests and aristocratic traditions of the 
Teuto-Wendish noblesse. 

VOL. u. E 



50 BERLIN AND MADRID. 

To few European cities has been accorded such mun- 
dane promotion as to Berlin, which, has, within six cen- 
turies, undergone advancement from an obscure and 
squalid "Wendish fishing village to the capital of United 
Germany. It is hard to conjecture what can have been 
the motive inducing an extremely remote Elector of 
Brandenburg to select Berlin as the princely Resident 
and political chef-lieu of the Marches constituting his 
Electorate unless, indeed, he were inspired thereto by a 
notion akin to that which prompted a certain Spanish 
monarch to pick out the truly remarkable spot upon 
which Madrid stands as the fittest site for the capital of 
Spain; namely, because it occupied an exactly central 
position in that realm, then consisting of but little more 
territory than was comprised in the mountainous pro- 
vinces of Leon and Castile. No more diametrical con- 
trast can be conceived than that afforded by the respective 
physical configurations of the localities to which Old 
World Spaniards and Borussians, a few centuries ago, 
gave the names of Madrid and Berlin ; and yet it appears 
not improbable that their raisons d'etre, as capitals of 
important European States, were originally one and the 
same. Madrid is a sort of eyrie, painfully constructed 
upon a bleak and arid rocky plateau of the Sierra, several 
thousand feet above the sea-level; Berlin, a lowland 
settlement, built upon an equally bleak plain of sandy 
top and swampy bottom, more than abundantly watered, 
however, by sluggish rivers, broad placid meres, and 
oozy fens, the surface of which, if I mistake not, is a 
trifle below the Baltic high-water mark. It has been the 
work of ages, persevered in with a stubborn tenacity of 



THE GENESIS OF BERLIN. 51 

purpose highly characteristic of the cross-bred popula- 
tions inhabiting the Northern Marches, to drain the sub- 
stratum of bog (underlying the thick layer of sand upon 
which the sister cities of Berlin and Coelln, divided by 
the Spree, were erected towards the middle of the thir- 
teenth century) in such sort that the masses of brick and 
stone superimposed upon its upper crust might rest firmly 
upon something like solid foundations, instead of sinking 
gradually into a combination of sand and slime incapable 
of sustaining their weight. Even as late as the reign of 
Frederick "William L, a mighty builder before the Lord, 
who marked out house-sites where he listed and com- 
pelled his wealthier subjects to raise up mansions to 
themselves thereupon, the workmen excavating on either 
side of the Friedrieh Strasse, with a view to laying the 
foundations of the residences in question, struck water 
at the depth of from fifteen to twenty feet, and that in 
such abundance that, but for the resolute and angry 
King's resolve to have his plans carried out to the letter, 
architectural enterprise in the so-called Friedrichstadt 
and Dorotheenstadt would have suffered a serious check. 
His Majesty, however, was not the man to be beaten by 
swamps, either at Berlin or Potsdam ; so an inconceivable 
quantity of rubble, gravel, and other solid matter was 
hurled down upon the intrusive liquid at the expense, 
I need scarcely say, of the unfortunate persons under 
royal command to build town-houses in the then new 
faubourgs, several substantial burghers and retired states- 
men of good means being thereby brought to utter ruin 
and penury until the contest between dry ballast and 
wet bog resulted in overwhelming victory to the former, 

B 2 



52 PRUSSIAN CHARACTERISTICS. 

Thus many a stout brick and stucco house, in those 
Berlin urban districts which owe their genesis to the 
Protestant Hero's father, cost its original proprietor more 
actual money to build of those humble materials than if 
it had been constructed, on a decently hard piece of soil, 
of the costliest marbles ever quarried in Italy, Greece, 
or Asia Minor. 

To the wearisomely monotonous aspect and surpass- 
ingly thankless nature of the country they inhabit, the 
Mark Brandenburgers, as well as the other tribes of 
" hardy Norsemen" who people the Mecklenburgs, Han- 
over, Brunswick, Pomerania, the Altmark, Uckermark, 
East and West Prussia, etc., probably owe the sternness 
of character, prosaic singlemindedness, and indomitable 
obstinacy that have enabled them to achieve German 
Unity and to direct the destinies of the mightiest and 
most highly cultured, as well as most homogeneous, of 
Continental nations. Those vast, sad-coloured, deadly 
dull plains that extend over a section of northern Europe 
well-nigh a thousand miles broad roughly speaking, 
from the frontier of Holland to that of Eussia breed 
millions of bullet -headed, deep - chested, hard -handed 
carles, whose every-day lives, from boyhood to old age, 
are exclusively spent in unremitting effort to vanquish 
the natural infertility of their native soil ; men to whom 
the prospect of strife with those less indurated by cease- 
less toil and chronic hardship than themselves, is ever 
welcome ; for it would seem to be their inborn destiny 
to issue periodically from their own swampy wastes and 
sandy deserts to overrun lands more productive, not 
unmindful of booty, and to subjugate neighbouring 



THE WENDISH KEGION. 53 

peoples, enervated by prosperity or demoralised by indul- 
gence. What a dismal country is that North- German, 
or more correctly, Wendish region, in the very heart of 
which Berlin is set, like a handsome mosaic in a pinch- 
beck frame ! From Diisseldorf to Kcmigsberg there is 
scarce a rising ground, two hundred feet high, to be 
seen on either side the railway line. Enormous plains, 
chiefly dark drab-coloured, stretch away to the horizon, 
southwards as well as northwards. At long intervals a 
row or two of undersized trees breaks the otherwise 
uninterrupted monotony of the landscape. Other element 
of the picturesque is there none. The sparse villages 
are, for the most part, solidly built and clean, but super- 
latively commonplace. The economist will doubtless 
regard them as most satisfactory objects; but to the 
artist's eye they cannot but appear little short of detes- 
table. Like the sturdy, heavy-fisted, prosaic folk who 
inhabit them, their utility is as undeniable as their 
uncomeliness. People bred up amongst such surround- 
ings are bound to look upon mere existence as a woundily 
serious piece of business, in which duty and necessity are 
the chief factors, and from which pleasure must needs be 
rigorously eliminated. To borrow a particularly happy 
figure of speech from the immortal Mantalini, to them 
" life is one demd horrid grind." 

As an apt illustration of the temper of mind to which 
these men, so heavily handicapped in the race of Life by 
the physical conditions of their native land, are brought, 
even in early manhood, I may here venture to quote an 
odd experience of my own, accruing to me during the 
Franco-German war. Towards the end of December, 



54 A QUAINT EXPERIENCE, 

1870, when the snow-shrouded soil round Paris was 
frozen nearly a foot deep, I was riding, one inexpressibly 
"bitter afternoon, through a section of the Prussian lines 
of investiture between Marly and Bougiyal ; when, at a 
sharp turn of the road, I came upon an outpost, con- 
sisting of a corporal's party from a regiment belonging 
to the 5th (Kirchbach's) Corps d'Armee. The usual 
formalities had to be gone through, as a matter of course ; 
and, having duly satisfied the Herr Unteroffizier, by 
imparting to him the parole du jour, that I was neither 
spy nor "loafer," I entered into conversation with the 
worthy fellow. He, and the men under his command, 
sturdy young " liners," were blue with cold, although as 
warmly clad as the requirements of active field duty 
would permit. It was Christmastide, I remember ; and 
I was smitten with compassion by the wearied, half- 
frozen appearance of the humble legionaries, so far from 
their homes and families at that festive season of the 
year, subjected to fatigue and exposed to danger by day 
and night, instead of being cosily seated by glowing 
stoves in their own weather-tight little cottages, haply 
lit up by the twinkling tapers of the Christmas Tree. 
"This weather is desperately hard upon you men on 
outpost duty," I said to the corporal, holding out my 
brandy-flask. " Don't you wish this vile siege were over, 
and that you were back again in your own. village ? J? 
" I, sir ?" he replied in his rugged dialect, raising his 
eyebrows in ineffable astonishment; " I wish myself back 
home ? not a bit of it. Not such a fool. liter ist es gut I 
Why, I get a bellyful of fresh meat here every day, as 
much white bread as I can put away, half a bottle of 



BERLIN'S EXPANSION. 55 

wine, two or tliree schnaps, and a couple of cigars or a 
loth of good strong tobacco. At koine I live upon cab- 
bage and black bread perhaps eat my fill of meat twice 
a year as for wine, I hardly knew the taste of it before 
I came to France. No, sir I wish. I were never going 
home again. This is the place for me, and such as me. 
There is the risk, of course, of being shot by the c ver- 
flixte Franzosen ; ' but we are all glad enough to take 
that, one day with another, so long as we may eat and 
drink in this grand style. Believe me, sir, I was never 
so happy or well off in my whole life before, and I wish, 
for my part, that the war would last for ever ! " 

In the good old days when Berlin was, so to speak, 
in the bud, about half a dozen years before it blossomed 
out into Imperial splendour, a foreigner, visiting that 
city with residential views and provided with a goodly 
sheaf of introductions to persons of official or social 
importance, could, with the aid of a first-class droshky, 
get through a handsome round of visits within the limits 
of a summer day. But of late years it has expanded, 
particularly to the westward, with such extraordinary 
rapidity, and the new Zimhaemer offer so many advan- 
tages, in the shape of conveniences and sanatory arrange- 
ments, over the houses situate in the central districts of 
the town, that Princes and Professors, Peers and Pleni- 
potentiaries, Court dignitaries and magnates of finance, 
commerce," and the arts, have migrated from their old 
haunts within a rifle-shot of the Linden to the magnifi- 
cent suburbs environing Berlin e$tra muros if the 
prosaic German capital had any walls to speak of in 
the direction of Charlottenburg, Lichterfelde, and ihe 



56 THE CURSE OF THE MILLIARDS. 

Kreiizberg. Nowadays, a pilgrimage of " afternoon 
calls," suet as persons who mix in good society are 
expected to make at short periodical intervals, is a costly 
and comprehensive enterprise particularly costly as far 
as the expenditure of time is concerned, and capaciously 
comprehensive with respect to space, as people of con- 
dition, who, a score of years ago, all resided within one 
Polizei-Revier, or police- district, are now spread about 
over seven or eight such administrative divisions of the 
overgrown city on the Spree. I say overgrown, because 
the supply of houses derived from exaggerated specula- 
tions in bricks and mortar (not forgetting stucco) far 
exceeds the demand for that useful article ; a circum- 
stance which, supplemented by the disagreeable fact that 
rents are pretty generally kept up to the fantastic rates 
they attained when the " fever of the milliards " was at 
its topmost height, results in the total emptiness, from 
basement to roof, of many stately mansions, Eents 
doubled themselves in Berlin, not by a gradual and rea- 
sonable process working onward continuously through- 
out a quarter of a century, as in other growing European 
capitals, but within three years of such unhealthy excite- 
ment as few modern cities have undergone. The influx 
of the French war indemnity into an Empire of which 
Berlin had with startling suddenness become the political 
and commercial centre, completely turned the heads of 
the thrifty and thitherto prudent Germans, who were 
seized by a delirium of speculation that prompted them 
to dissipate over a hundred and fifty millions sterling of 
the national savings with almost unprecedented reck- 
lessness. They believed that wealth had come to them, 



THE CURSE OP THE MILLIARDS. 57 

as it were in the night, justifying them in launching out 
into enterprises from adventuring upon which they had 
theretofore been debarred by the stringent exiguity of 
their means. Everybody who had anything in the way 
of liens immeubles to sell, exhibited an impetuous eager- 
ness to part with it at a fancy price, and found somebody 
equally anxious to acquire it upon those terms, at the 
expense, I need scarcely say, of the general public, 
beset by an irresistible craze for speculative investments. 
Old-established businesses, of every conceivable descrip- 
tion, were ceded by their owners to Limited Liability 
Companies, and paid for in shares which were " financed " 
up to an extravagant premium, only to become utterly 
valueless when the inevitable crash came to pass. In 
house-property, more especially, speculation of this class 
ran riot. I remember a ramshackle old mansion in the 
Mauer-strasse, one flat of which I had occupied for a 
short time (but had been compelled to quit precipitately 
by reason of the insufferable stenches with which it was 
pervaded), that changed owners thrice within a week 
during the "Milliard Madness." Its real value was 
about fifteen thousand pounds. By its original owner, a 
Silesian Prince, it was sold to a notorious speculator for 
twenty-three thousand, and resold by the latter on the 
following day to a " promoter" of Companies for forty- 
seven thousand. Three days later, this sagacious gentle- 
man made it over to one of the several Limited Liability 
enterprises fostered by himself, and rather prided himself 
upon his moderation in only taking eighty-four thousand 
pounds of the shareholders' money for the venerable 
building. It is gratifying to reflect that he did not 



58 THE CURSE OF THE MILLIARDS* 

keep his ill-gotten gains long, but was, shortly after 
completing this remarkable transaction, ruined as utterly 
as the most miserable of his victims could desire ; for 
he, too, was infected by the rabies of speculation, and 
invested all his enormous profits in mushroom stock 
that collapsed one fine day, leaving him a hopeless 
pauper. 

During that terrible period of popular illusions and 
audacious swindling which terminated in such over- 
whelming calamities to the German middle classes, rents 
went up in proportion to the fictitious rise accruing in 
the value of all kinds of property. But they scarcely 
fell at all, oddly enough, when the general smash-up 
brought the price of houses down with a run ; nor have 
they suffered much appreciable abatement since that 
memorable cataclysm swallowed up at one fell gulp the 
fruits of a century's national thrift. The fact ig that 
even so appalling a catastrophe as that of 1873 could 
not avail to arrest the natural development of a city 
which had been so recently and unexpectedly promoted 
from the rank of a provincial (from the German point of 
view) Eesidenz to that of an Imperial capital, harbouring 
the legislative and administrative machinery by which 
forty-two millions of Germans had professed themselves 
content to be governed. Berlin, in its new character, 
could not fail to attract intelligence, capital, and enter- 
prise from all parts of the Eatherland, and the call upon 
its structural resources for house accommodation soon be- 
came greater than it could meet. The immigration, in a 
word, that in less than a decade increased the population 
of Berlin by three hundred thousand souls, kept up house- 



HOUSE- BENT IN BERLIN. 59 

rent to a standard altogether incompatible with "the 
eternal fitness of things ; " that is to say, an eight-roomed 
flat in an average Berlin street lets for a larger sum 
annually than is asked for a London ten-roomed house 
in a convenient quarter ; and rent, throughout the middle 
classes of Berlin society, represents one-fourth of the 
tenant's total income, instead of one-sixth. The wonder 
is, how Government officials, commercial clerks, and 
other well-educated respectable persons in the receipt of 
salaries varying between 100 and 300 per annum 
and of such the great bulk of the Berlin middle-class is 
composed contrive to keep body and soul together, 
after paying their rent. That they experience consider- 
able difficulty in so doing may be inferred from the 
fact that, in the course of the year 1881, over one 
hundred thousand distrainments for rent and taxes were 
levied within the precincts of the capital. State and 
town taxes, all told, as assessed upon incomes by the 
authorities after a peculiarly arbitrary fashion, amount 
to about thirteen per cent. To this complexion have 
augmented Army Budgets and costly municipal improve- 
ments brought the Berlin ratepayer; and it may be 
broadly asserted that no one, however small his or her 
means, is exempt from income-tax, since domestic ser- 
vants are required to pay it upon the amount of their 
frequently slender wages. 

How, under these conditions, a vast number of persons 
occupying official positions of high rank, but small 
remuneration, manage to make both ends of their 
domestic estimates meet at the end of the year, is a 
mystery that I have hitherto failed to penetrate, despite 



60 SALARIES AND IK COMBS. 

my eight years' sojourn in the German capital. Take 
the case, for instance, of an average Eegierungs-Eath, or 
Government Councillor a gentleman who in England 
would be a Departmental Senior Clerk with a salary of 
from six to eight hundred a year. The Prussian 
Eegierungs-Eath, unless exceptionally favoured by luck 
or official protection, has served his country for at least 
thirty more probably, forty years before attaining 
that high bureaucratic station. His salary, at the very 
outside, is 250 per annum. Of course, he has married 
early in life they all do and is the head of a large 
family ; for the Prussian state employe is as prolific as 
the British curate or the Eoumanian peasant. His boys 
and girls have to be clothed, fed, and educated ; his wife, 
who is socially a personage, has to "keep up appear- 
ances," and give a coflee entertainment every now 
and then to other " Lady Councillor esses," her natural 
and necessary cronies. He himself has to present a 
decent appearance at his bureau, to live in a tolerably 
respectable house, to wear clothes that are in keeping 
with his rank and responsibilities (which include liability 
to attend Ministerial soirees, and even the crowning 
glory, if he be of noble birth, of an occasional " com- 
mand" to a Court festivity, at which he must appear in 
uniform) ; to keep out of debt, and, generally speaking, 
to represent honourably and creditably in his own person, 
as well as in the conduct and aspect of his family, the 
State he serves. If he fulfil all these conditions, it is a 
guinea to a gooseberry that his grateful sovereign will 
reward his exemplary behaviour with the Third Class of 
the Eed Eagle; but I have never heard that the posses- 



TISITING IN BEELIN. 61 

sion of tliat glorious distinction exercised a calming 
effect upon hunger or was in any way instrumental in 
filling up the vacuum winch provokes that vexatious 
infirmity. Many years ago, before rents rose and taxes 
were screwed up to their present attitude, I asked myself 
the question, " How does the typical Begierungs-Bath 
live ? " and I am still pausing for a reply. 

It can hardly fail to occur to the intelligent foreigner 
whose lines are cast in the German capital and whose 
social position obliges him to fall in with the ceremonious 
observances current in that, as in every other Teutonic 
Besidenz, that the phenomenal enlargement of Berlin 
within the last ten years must be the source of infinite 
repining to a very large class of the community, belong- 
ing to an eminently respectable and intelligent stratum 
of society ; I mean, the German bureaucracy. In the 
lives of those well-educated but impecunious men, hun- 
dreds of thousands in number, holding subordinate office 
under the State or aspiring to the obtention of such 
office, formal and complimentary visiting plays a very 
important part. This wearisome and ridiculous custom 
has taken such deep root in the German national cha- 
racter that all the intellectual emancipations and social 
enfranchisements of modern times have proved unavail- 
ing to extirpate it. To achieve nomination to a post in 
the Government service or, having succeeded in estab- 
lishing that footing upon the first rung of the official 
ladder, to attain anything like abnormally rapid ad- 
vancement in the bureaucratic career it is in Germany 
considered expedient to display a punctilious assiduity in 
harassing all manner of more or less influential per- 



62 COMPLIMENTARY CALLS. 

sonages with, deferential and congratulatory calls, upon 
anniversaries of special import or interest to themselves. 
Besides the oppressive New Year's visit, practically- 
obligatory upon every employe who wishes to stand 
tolerably well with his official superiors, calls have to be 
made upon these latter a propos of their birthdays, name- 
days, wedding-days, service-jubilees, decoration-confer- 
ment-anniversaries, and a host of other commemorative 
occasions. According to the lex non scripta of German 
social etiquette it is indispensable that these calls be 
performed during the day-time and in full evening dress 
conditions which, to British apprehensions at least, " 
seriously aggravate the annoyance and absurdity intrin- 
sically incident to such transactions. It is expected, 
moreover, of that model being happily described in the 
Teutonic vernacular as " ein feingelildeter Mann" that he 
should pay this empty and tiresome description of com- 
pliment to his private acquaintances as well as to his 
administrative chiefs and Goenner, or protectors. Conse- 
quently, the aspiring Government clerk, sucking magis- 
trate or embryonic Candidatus Theologice, carefully taught 
from his childhood upwards that his advancement in life 
will be at least as dependent upon his careful observance 
of these formalities as upon any individual merit he may 
display in the course of his actual service, passes the 
cMef portion of his existence in a black tail-coat and 
trousers, white cravat and lemon-kid gloves. Pale 
yellow has always been preferred, in Germany, to lilac 
or pure white for " gloves of ceremony, 3 ' I know not 
why. The primrose-coloured " hand-shoe, " in con- 
nection with evening dress, is as obsolete in England as 



THE AET OF BOWING. 63 

the triple waistcoat or the stiffened shirt-frill ; it is 
extremely rare in France, Italy, and Spain, where a few 
provincial mayors and such like social oddities still cling 
to it with touching constancy; the Eussian Tchinovnik 
knows it not, nor, for the matter of that, does the typical 
Turkish Effendi, who affects pearl-grey gloves, as irre- 
proachable in fit and fashion as his superlatively lac- 
quered boots. But throughout the Fatherland it is still 
considered the correct thing, as an accessory to the 
crepuscular costume prescribed by etiquette for the pay- 
ing of morning calls, congratulatory, condolatory, com- 
memorative or generally complimentary. 

Another essential element of success in the official 
career is the practice of bowing, regulated by a nice 
knowledge of nuances in bureaucratic rank, seniority and 
precedence. Bowing, in Germany, is by no means the 
mere outward and visible sign of an instinctive courtesy, 
as in other countries ; it is rather a carefully cultivated 
branch- of social science a department of Bildung, one 
of those many-sided German words (like Gemuthlichkeit] 
which the children of Teut profess to understand but are 
unable to explain to the perplexed alien. Its funda- 
mental principles are readily mastered. Not so its by- 
laws, ingeniously adapted to all manner of situations 
liable to accrue during conventional intercourse between 
persons of different stations. It may be taken as inde- 
feasible that the inferior, whikt approaching the supe- 
rior, must execute three several bows at as many 
successive stages of his advance. Upon taking leave, 
however, he should always contrive to exceed, by one, 
the number of inclinations elicited by his withdrawal 



64 THE ART OF BOWING. 

from tlie recipient of Ms visit. No matter how many 
times the latter, in a very paroxysm of " Bildung? may 
salute him, he must if he would flourish and prosper 
in worldly things be able to say to himself with 
exulting confidence, as he descends the stairs, " The 
balance of bows is one, if not two, in my favour! 5 ' Only 
long experience and incessant observation will teach a 
rising man how often he ought to bow whilst actually 
engaged in conversation with a person in whose good 
graces he is desirous to establish himself firmly ; or will 
familiarise him with such delicate distinctions as are in- 
volved in the relative depths of a bow suggested by a 
Minister's joke and of one suitable to the acknowledgment 
of a moral reflection emanating from a Councillor of the 
Third Class. But even these fine nuances, felt rather 
than defined, become speedily perceptible realities to an 
intelligent man, when he makes them the study of his 
predilection, at a time of life when his apprehensions 
are keenest and his receptiveness knows no limit. "Were 
I myself of the German persuasion, the . father of a son 
verging upon manhood, whose official career I yearned 
to further by every honourable means available to him, 
I would make it my business, upon the eve of his recep- 
tion into some departmental bureau as an unpaid supernu- 
merary, to impart to him a modicum of excellent advice, 
in something like the following terms : "Be invariably 
deferential in your demeanour towards those set over 
you in authority, be it even by a hair's-breadth of 
bureaucratic rank. Never forget to address everybody 
with whom you may have to do by his or her official 
predicate or title of courtesy. In exchanging salutes 



HOW TO GET OX. 



with your superiors, always bow to them once more than 
they shall bow to you. Be chronically swallow-tailed 
and white chokery; guard yourself prudently against 
innovations in the hue of your gloves, remembering ever 
that pale yellow is hallowed by ancient usage. Devote 
all your leisure hours to complimentary calls; and" 
here a father's feelings might cause my voice to falter 
" you will assuredly get on in life, a credit to yourself 
and honour to your family. Some thirty years hence, 
by strict adhesion to these rules of conduct, you will in 
all probability have become a Councillor of some sort, 
with a copious income of at least 180 per annum, four 
or five decorations, and a right to a pension of three- 
fifths of your salary. You will be irrevocably entitled 
to the predicate of c Highwellborn,' besides your official 
title ; an ornament to the age you live in, and a shining 
example to future generations. Bless you, my son ! A 
glorious and lucrative future is before you. Visit, and 
you will succeed ; bow, and you shall prosper ; wear a 
tail-coat in the days of your youth, and when you are 
old you shall sit under the shade thereof ! 3? 

With these vexatious and time- consuming incum- 
bencies hanging chronically over their heads, it is not to 
be wondered at that the smaller fry of the Berlinese 
bureaucracy and liberal professions should regard the 
marvellous growth of the German capital as a serious 
grievance. Whilst that part of the Ursine City inha- 
bited by HonoraUoren was no larger than the parish of 
St. Marylebone, they could get through no end of formal 
visits, with the aid of a sixpenny droshky, in two or 
three hours of a half-holiday. Now that the respectable 

VOL. IT. E 



66 THE BERLIN DROSHKY. 

quarter of Berlin covers nearly as much ground as Edin- 
burgh, a complimentary pilgrimage of the class above 
alluded to falls but little short of martyrdom. As the 
distances to be traversed have increased through the 
rapid construction of new streets, squares, and crescents, 
so has the locomotion tariff been raised, slowly and 
cautiously, under the paternal superintendence of a police 
regime, the ubiquitous finger of which is kept perti- 
naciously inserted in every pic of Prussian private enter- 
prise. Time was, " when this old hat was new, 77 that 
the Berlin droshky was the cheapest, as well as the 
worst hireable vehicle in Europe. Its supremacy in the 
latter respect, I am bound to say, is still unshaken by 
improvement, either in construction or in the quality of 
its motive power. But it has fallen from its high estate 
as the concrete realisation of a thrifty mind's ideal. All 
day long it is dearer than a St. Petersburg droshky ; 
and from 11 P.M. to 6 A.M. it is nearly twice as expensive 
as a London cab, which, as far as comfort and speed are 
concerned, bears about the same relation to it as does a 
first-class carriage of the Limited Mail to a bullock van 
of what is technically termed a " Parliamentary slow.' 7 
A government clerk at thirty pounds a year, although 
invested with the haughty and impressive title of Eegie- 
rungs-Kanzlist or Ministerial-Conzipist which he is 
justifiably ambitious to exchange for an even more dig- 
nified denomination cannot well afford to disburse six 
or seven shillings once or twice a week for transport, 
even in the immediate interests of his possible promotion. 
Scarcely more feasible to him is the performance of his 
visiting rounds on foot, not to speak of the difficulty he 



POSSIBLE REFORMS. C/ 

experiences, being a humble subordinate, In obtaining 
leave to absent Mmself from Ms office during society's 
canonical hours. I cannot help hoping that the physical 
extension of Berlin, unattended as it is by any coincident 
increment in the incomes of State employes, will ere 
long strike a death-blow at an ancient but humiliating 
practice, more honoured in the breach than in the obser- 
yanee. And I look forward without a pang of anticipa- 
tory sorrow to the period when a tail-coat, worn in broad 
daylight by any Beiiinese save a waiter, will be as 
striking a rarity in the German capital as a student 
without a gashed face, or an Assessor absolutely emanci- 
pate from the thraldom of spectacles. 



CHAPTEE III. 

LIFE IN BERLIN" UNDER THE LINDEN PRUSSIAN ORDERS 
OF CHITALRY GERMAN PATRONYMICS AND PREDICATES. 

EVERY European capital of the first class, excepting Lon- 
don, has its street of streets, a recognised resume of its 
manners and customs, chief characteristics and salient 
peculiarities, to which thoroughfare natives and foreigners 
alike naturally gravitate at certain hours of the day, partly 
because "it is the right thing to. do/' partly because a street 
of this peculiar class really offers exceptional attractions 
in. the way of sight-seeing, novelties, and social rencontres. 
The monster metropolis, with its four millions of inhabi- 
tants and half score of postal districts, each a mighty city 
in itself, stretching out their suburban tentacles towards 
the hearts of four counties, is too vast and many-sided to 
admit of anything like typification in a single street. 
Cornhill, Pall Mall, Fleet Street, the Strand, Eegent and 
Oxford Streets are one and all representative thorough- 
fares, concretely expressing to the minds of many men 
the abstract idea of London. In all probability ten 
foreigners of twelve who have visited the British capital, 
if asked which of the great London streets had impressed 
them as being the most obviously typical of London life, 
would unhesitatingly reply " Eegent Street; ?? and yet I 



have no doubt that there are thousands of born Lon- 
doners who do not even know that gay thoroughfare by 
name, and tens of thousands who have never in their 
lives trodden its broad and crowded pavements. To a 
certain class of English society Pall Mall is the London 
street par excellence ; others are accustomed to assign 
that representative pre-eminence to Bond Street, St. 
James's Street, Mile End, Batcliff Highway, que sais-je ? 
But it is beyond question that no individual street of 
our metropolis stands in the same relation to Londoners 
of every rank, occupation, and pursuit as that connecting 
the Boulevard des Italiens with all Parisians, the Bing- 
strasse with all Yiennese, the Corso with the Eomans, 
the Nevsko'i Prospect with the inhabitants of St. Peters- 
burg, or (to come to the subject with which I now pro- 
pose to deal), the Linden Avenue, known to its habitues 
of all nationalities as "TTnter den Linden," with the 
Beiiinese. 

The Linden Avenue, like the magnificent Bing-strasse of 
Vienna, is really a stately Boulevard, divided into several 
sections for the respective accommodation of carriages, 
business vehicles, and pedestrians by long lines of lime- 
trees, from which it derives its special designation. It was 
originally laid out and planted by Queen Sophie Doro 
th.ee, that notable lady immortalised in Carlyle's great 
biography, who gave her name to a once fashionable 
quartier of the Prussian capital, and was so eminent an 
innovator in landscape-gardening, horticulture, dairy- 
farming, etc., that her. name still lives in the popular 
memory as that of a beneficent busybody who revolu- 
tionised a whole host of antique beliefs and practices, 



TO OTTER DEN LINDEN, 

greatly to tlie benefit of the Resident and its Immediate 
neighbourhood. " Under the Linden J? is nearly three- 
quarters of a mile in length, extending in an absolutely 
straight line from the Pariser-Platz a square frame of 
stately palaces in which the colossal Brandenburg Gate 
is nobly set to the Lust- Garten and Schloss-Platz, two 
vast open spaces merging into one another on the left 
bank of the Spree and surrounded on three sides by 
buildings of considerable historical and artistic impor- 
tance. At present the vista which may be said to close 
the eastern end of the Linden is a highly unsatisfactory 
one, from a picturesque point of view. It consists of 
the Dorn, or Cathedral, an ignoble, shabby, dirty-looking 
hybrid sort of church, with a nondescript body sur- 
mounted by a clumsy cupola, of which the Berlinese 
have been heartily ashamed ever since their city obtained 
promotion to the rank of German capital. But ere long 
this repulsively ugly building will vanish from its lodg- 
ment on the Campo Santo of " Modern Athens," to bo 
replaced by a magnificent mausoleum of white marble, 
in which the ashes of all the Brandenburg Electors, 
Prussian "Kings, and Hohenzollern Princes, now provi- 
sionally reposing in the vaults of the hideous Dom, are 
to be finally deposited. When this mausoleum shall bo 
completed, it will be open to some poet of the future to 
describe the Linden Avenue as a " glorious road from 
Victory to Death ; " for the famous bronze group of the 
conquering goddess, perched high upon her war-chariot, 
and urging her fiery steeds in the direction of the Royal 
Palace, already crowns the summit of the Brandenburg 
Gate at the western extremity of the Avenue, and the 



UNTER DEN LINDEN. VI 

eastern end will then, to all practical intents and pur- 
poses, be terminated by the gorgeous tomb of the princely 
warriors and statesmen whose descendant now sits upon 
the German throne. Great advancement has fallen to 
the lot of the Hohenzollerns. Frederick, Bin-grave of 
Nuremberg, came to Berlin as "Warden of the Wendish 
Marches, then peopled by a few hundred thousand Slav 
peasants slightly leavened by Saxon immigration. "Wil- 
liam, King of Prussia, Is also Emperor of a realm 
numbering forty-five millions of inhabitants, and occupy- 
ing the foremost rank, power, and prestige amongst 
Continental Powers. The bones of these two remarkable 
men will one day be housed under the same roof, together 
with those of all the intermediate Hohenzollerns who, 
each in turn, have contributed something to the main 
achievement of their gifted, valiant, and persistent race 
the building up of a barren Marquisate into the most 
potent Empire of modern times. 

Amongst the historically celebrated houses that have 
survived modern Improvements in this celebrated 
thoroughfare is the old palace In which Frederick the 
Great resided during the latter years of Ms life, when 
State affairs or Court ceremonies called him to Berlin 
from Ms favourite Potsdam villeggiatura^ sans souci. 
During the last three reigns it has been utilised as an 
official abode for the Commandant of the Berlin garrison ; 
a few years ago it was furbished up at the expense 
of the Emperor, to the destruction of all its antique fea- 
tures, and at present differs but little from the pattern 
Berlin mansion, flat-roofed and stucco-fronted. Near It 
stands the palace occupied as a town-house by the Crown 



72 TINIER BEN LINDEN". 

Prince, a handsome building erected for Frederick the 
Great, upon the occasion of his marriage, by order of his 
eccentric father, and as an outward and visible sign of 
paternal forgiveness. In this palace also lived the pre- 
sent Emperor, when Heir Apparent _ to the Prussian 
throne, and it is destined, probably at no very distant 
date, to become the dwelling of Prince William of Prus- 
sia, when the venerable Kaiser's good grey head shall be 
laid to rest in an honoured grave. A little further on 
in a westerly direction is situate the Eoyal Palace, nearly 
opposite to which commence the long lines of lime-trees 
constituting the veritable Linden Avenue, which, strictly 
speaking, is bounded at one end by Eaiicli's noble 
equestrian statue of Frederick II., and at the other by a 
gigantic gas-lamp adorning the centre of the Pariser 
Plate. The Opera House, Arsenal, University, Grand 
Guard-House (a perfect replica of a celebrated Greek 
temple). Museum, and Eoyal Castle all stand without 
these limits ; but they nevertheless are so closely asso- 
ciated with " Unter den Linden ?? in the popular mind 
that they may be said to belong to that grand and im- 
pressive thoroughfare, which can boast of no such fine 
specimens of architecture, severe or ornate, within its 
own technical precincts. It is, in fact, for the most part 
fringed on either side with commonplace houses of 
modern aspect, the ground floors of which, with few 
exceptions, are tenanted by shopkeepers, restaurateurs, 
and cafetiers. 

But this more prosaic section of the Linden has, 
within my remembrance, witnessed memorable sights and 
been the scene of terrible events. From a second floor 



BISMARCK A.yD BLIND. 7 3 

window of one of its southern buildings, eight years 
ago, Nobiling fired the double shot that all but slew 
William I., whose life had been attempted by crazy Ho&del, 
a few weeks previously, only a hundred yards or so from 
the spot upon which the philosophical assassin's missiles 
struck him down. Hard by, where the Kleine Manor 
Strasse debouches into the Linden, Prince von Bismarck 
had a narrow squeak for existence at the hands of young 
Blind, not many months before I first made the personal 
acquaintance of the eminent German statesman. It was 
not, however, till the autumn of 1867 that one night, 
during a long tete-a-tete with which he honoured me in 
his old house in the "Wilhelm Strasse, he gave me a de- 
tailed and graphic account of his rencontre with Blind, and 
placed my finger upon the bony excrescence which had 
developed itself on one of his lower ribs in consequence 
of the injury inflicted thereon by a bullet discharged 
from Blind's revolver at a moment when its muzzle was 
in actual contact with the Chancellor's body. "I owe 
my extraordinary escape from death/' he observed, 
"partly to the solidity and hardness of my rib, and 
partly to the strength of my muscles. Blind had scarcely 
raised his pistol when I grappled with him, and got his 
right arm in a tight grip, which I never relaxed until 
he was secured by a patrol of the Guard. Of the five 
shots he fired whilst we were struggling, only this one," 
pointing to his side, "took effect; for I had my wits 
about me, and managed to keep his pistol-hand bout 
. outwards, except just at the end of the tussle, when he 
succeeded in turning the barrel full upon my body. But 
the bullet, though it stung mo so sharply that I thought 



74 ORDERS OF CHIVALRY. 

it had gone clean through. me, only glanced off my rib. 
I ran a much more imminent risk from the fair-play 
instincts of a honest Prussian Guardsman than I did 
from that foolish lad's revolver. You see, he was a 
smallish fellow, and I am rather a big one. Whilst we 
were wrestling, my hat fell off, and I suppose my bald 
head proved a tempting object to one of the soldiers, 
who ran up to see what was the matter, hearing the 
reports of the pistol ; for this worthy fellow, perceiving 
a tall man, as he fancied, ill-treating a short youth, 
clubbed his rifle, and would assuredly have brought 
the butt end down with a crash upon my bare pate had 
I not caught sight of his attitude in time to shout out, 
c Hold on ! I am Bismarck ' upon which he dropped 
his weapon in a much greater fright than even my 
own." 

No foreigner who has mixed freely in Berlin society 
can have failed to be strongly impressed by the impor- 
tance attached therein to the possession of those outward 
and visible signs of inward desert and latent merit, hight 
decorations. In Court, commercial, and artistic circles 
alike, these symbols of Royal favour meet the eye in 
infinite variety of shape and colour, and are, in ninety- 
nine cases of a hundred, highly prized by their wearers 
of either sex ; for, be it parenthetically remarked, the 
conferment of Orders, formerly a male monopoly, has of 
late years been extended so as to comprehend members 
of the female persuasion. The raison cPetre of a decora- 
tion, of course, is that it represents a State or national 
recognition of conspicuous virtue or dutifulness in the 
subject a recognition, moreover, emanating from the 



OBDEBS OF CHIVALRY. /O 

very Fountain of Honour Itself, and stamping its reci- 
pient, as it were, with, an authoritative and indisputable 
brand of sovereign gratitude and approbation. That the 
cross, star, or riband, displayed upon a manly breast or 
snowy shoulder, is not invariably significant of that 
which it was originally intended to mean is but an in- 
evitable consequence of the circumstance that Orders of 
Chivalry and Merit are human institutions, and therefore 
intrinsically fallible. In Germany they are more abun- 
dant, various, and susceptible of minute distinctions in 
the manner of their bestowal than in any other country 
of the universe. It would be rash to infer from this fact 
that the Fatherland is the favourite abode of the virtues, 
or that the standard of German meritoriousness is abnor- 
mally high. I do not, pray observe, deny that such is 
the case ; but the experiences that have accrued to me 
during many years' residence in Prussia, the Paradise of 
decoration-hunters, incline me to believe that the chil- 
dren of Teut are neither better nor worse than their 
fellow-men of other nationalities. Supply, according to 
politico-economists, is created by demand. Admitting 
this axiom to be one of those u eternal truths ?? that we 
read of in Caiiyle, it may be fairly assumed that the 
Germans enjoy a special dispensation in the matter of 
Orders because their inborn craving for this class of 
honorific distinction is more vehement and insatiable 
than that experienced by any other variety of the Cau- 
casian race. 

That their philosophers and humourists have, for the 
last century and a half, solemnly deplored or comically 
derided the profusion with which crosses and ribands 



7C ORDERS OP CHLVALBY. 

are conferred by the Prussian State in reward of real or 
imaginary services, is nothing to the purpose. Neither 
sage nor satirist, when the possibility of obtaining such 
a symbol of honour may have accrued to him, has ever 
been known to reject his chance or evade his Destiny, 
One of the most popular proverbs in the Realm of the 
Black and Eed Eagles is the following : " There are three 
afflictions from which no well-conducted Prussian can 
hope to escape ; Death, the tax-gatherer, and the Fourth 
Class of the Eed Eagle.' 7 The point of this jest is some- 
what blunted by the fact that no well-conducted Prussian 
dreams of avoiding the conferment of the decoration in 
question, or is, indeed, when once possessed of it, in the 
least averse to sporting it in public upon every occasion 
affording him the slenderest pretext for so doing. It is 
inferentially reproachful to a man in middle life, occu- 
pying a respectable position in bureaucracy, commerce, 
the liberal professions, arts and sciences, that, being a 
Prussian born, he should be utterly forlorn of Knightly 
Orders ; wherefore, if he cannot succeed by hook or by 
crook in obtaining the minor insignia of one or other of 
these distinctions from the sovereign of his own country, 
he turns his attention to "foreign" monarchy of whom 
there are still a couple of dozen or so within the territorial 
limits of the Fatherland, and brings what hole and corner 
influence he can command to bear upon some petty 
potentate with a persistency which, as a matter of fact, 
is generally crowned by success. Failing obtention of 
the Prussian Eed Eagle, a more reluctant bird than the 
above quoted proverb would seem to indicate, the irre- 
sistible aspirant to chivalric honours will proudly clasp 



ORDERS OF CHIVALRY. it 

to his bosom the Blue Cuckoo or other heraldic monster 
of Eeuss-Greiz-Schleiz-Lobenstein-Gera, if he can get it ; 
and, haying by the payment of a trifling fee secured his 
own native ruler's gracious permission to accept and 
wear the insignia of that illustrious Order, will cause his 
new title to be engraved upon his visiting cards, in some 
such florid formula as this : " Mr. Upper Privy Archi- 
tectural Councillor Johann Schmidt, Knight of the Trans- 
parent Princely Beuss-Greiz-Schleiz-Lobenstein-Geranian 
Blue Cuckoo Order of the Fourth Class with the Biband," 
Having by this act at least -in his own opinion achieved 
the goal of a just and noble ambition, he is tolerably 
happy until it occurs to him that his life, in his social 
position, is but a hollow mockery whilst unblessed by 
possession of the Cross (Third Class, Civil Division) 
of the Orange-Tawny Woodpecker of Saxe-Meiningen- 
Hildeburghausen-Jiilich-Cleven-Bergen, upon the Dia- 
phanous Duke of which polytitular realm he has some 
more or less genuine or spurious claim for All-Serenest 
recognition. Beset by this fresh craving, he indefatig- 
ably stalks the "Woodpecker until its miniature effigy, in 
metal and enamel, hangs by the side of the Cuckoo from 
his button-hole ; and so, Ms appetite for distinction 
growing by what it feeds upon, he perseveres in his 
crusade until half the birds and beasts that went into the 
Ark are suspended in glistening array from parti-coloured 
ribands sewn on to the front of his coat. 

Next to Prince vonBismarck, who is Knight Grand Cross 
of sixty-four Orders more than half the total existing 
number of such distinctions the most lavishly decorated 
German I ever met was one W. Hoff, the patentee of a 



T8 HOFF AND WERTHEni. 

surpassingly Hygeian liquid yclept "Extract of Malt, 53 
whose elaborate collection of Imperial, Koyal, Ducal and 
Princely Crosses serves as a highly -telling advertisement 
for the nutritive and refreshing tonic from which he 
derives an uncommonly comfortable income. Hoif, in 
his turn, was all but equalled as a champion crusader by 
Wertheim, another acquaintance of mine, the inventor 
of a fire-proof safe that appears to have asserted irre- 
futable claims upon all the sovereigns of Continental 
Europe for recognition of its merits in the shape of 
chivalric conferment. Some years ago my old friend 
Dr. Giskra, at that time a Minister of State in Vienna, 
asked me to dinner one day, to meet a number of 
Austrian commercial celebrities. I was amongst the 
earliest arrivals, and, whilst standing near the drawing- 
room door, chatting to that most eccentric of bankers, 
Baron Henikstein, I heard a faint tinkling, as of fairy 
sledge bells, upon the landing outside. "What may 
that strange sound he?" I inquired of my companion, 
a living encyclopaedia of Viennese oddities. u That," 
gravely replied the Baron, " is the jingling of Wertheim's 
decorations. He wears them strung upon golden chains 
all over his chest not the fire-proof one and, as you 
hear, the chimes rung by his crosses announce his 
advent from afar.' 3 

The astute and thrifty Kings who have reigned over 
Prussia for the last hundred and eighty-six years, finding 
scraps of riband and morsels of metal to be stimulants 
to exertion and rewards of merit at once agreeably cheap 
and eminently suited to the temper of the Prussian mind, 
wisely founded several Orders of Chivalry, and more- 



GRADATIONS ,OF CONFERMENT. * 79 

over Introduced sucli copious varieties of nuances into the 
praxis of their bestowal that I have been positively 
assured, by the highest living authority upon this par- 
ticular subject, that no fewer than seventy-two distinct 
gradations of conferment are comprehended In the poten- 
tialities of distinction available for dispensation to his 
subjects by William L, German Emperor and King of 
Prussia. Each of these nuances represents something 
quite definite and concrete in the way of distinction to 
its recipient, and Is granted or withheld by its donor in 
consonance with a nice apprehension of the exact degree 
of merit justifying or invalidating its conferment. The 
Aulic Councillor of thirty years' service who, deeming 
himself entitled to the Third Class of the Bed Eagle with 
the riband^ receives the Cross of that Class without the 
riband or, worse still, the Third Class of the Crown, 
Order feels himself unduly snubbed, and curses the 
hour in which he entered the service of so ungrateful and 
ungenerous a State. Should he, however, find a small 
enamelled wreath of mimic oak-leaves attached, as well as 
the anticipated Schleife, or riband, to his " EotJien-Adler 
Orden Dritter Klasse," his breast expands with honest 
pride and joyful emotion, and his heart beats high with 
patriotic affection for the just and magnanimous monarch 
who has evinced such accurate appreciation of his 
excellent deserts. 

Of these elastic and comprehensive Prussian Orders, 
nine In number (including the Order of Louisa, exclu- 
sively conferred upon ladies), their history, characteristics 
and peculiarities, I subjoin some noteworthy details. 
Their titles in due order of their precedence, dignity and 



80 THE BLACK EAGLE. 

rank, as prescribed by Boyal regulation, are the Black 
Eagle, Ked Eagle, Order of Merit, Crown, Iron Cross, 
St. John, House- Order of Hohenzollern, Swan, and 
Louisa. As I have already stated above, they are 
susceptible of conferment in seventy-two several and 
different ways. 

The first of Prussian Orders of Chivalry is the Black 
Eagle. This supreme distinction supreme, that is to 
say, from the Prussian point of view, for in European 
estimation of such institutions it ranks u with and after" 
the Garter, Q-olden Fleece and Annunziata was founded 
by Frederick, third Kurfiirst of that name and first King 
of Prussia, in the year 1701, when the u expensive 
Herr " raised the " Marquisate of Brandenburg ?? to the 
rank of a kingdom. By the original statutes of this 
Order, the number of its Knights of Prussian birth, of 
course, exclusive of members of the Hohenzollern family 
was limited to thirty. To the best of my knowledge 
and belief, those statutes have never suffered any alter- 
ation since the date of their promulgation. Consequently, 
Knights of the Black Eagle are as rare in Germany as 
Knights of the Garter in England ; and a Prussian sub- 
ject must indeed have rendered extraordinary services to 
his country ere he can hope to qualify for the conferment 
of this exalted decoration. It does not, however, like 
the Maria Theresa, Leopold and Iron Crown of Austria, 
or the St. Stephen of Hungary, endow its recipient with 
nobility, transmissible to his heirs; nor does this par- 
ticular shortcoming detract in any way from its value, 
for the simple reason that any person, not of noble birth 
and hereditary title, has about the same chance of 



THE BLACK EAGLE. 81 

obtaining tiie Black Eagle as has Mr. Spurgeon of elec- 
tion to the dignity of Eoman Pontiff. 

"With the view of imparting uncommon prestige and 
exclusiveness to this Order, its Royal founder ordained 
that it should be worn alone, thereby inferring that no 
other decoration was worthy of occupying a place by its 
side upon a Prussian breast. But Frederic the First, 
one of the vainest men who ever lived, was led into an 
infringement of his own ordinances by a splendid wind- 
fall that came to him in the shape of a British Garter, a 
distinction but rarely bestowed by English Sovereigns 
upon foreign Monarchs in the eighteeenth century, and 
one to the obtention of which he could never have ven- 
tured to aspire had he remained in the chrysalidic stage 
of a Brandenburg Elector, instead of achieving full but- 
terfly development as a Prussian King. The worthy 
gentleman was so highly flattered by the unexpected 
honour conferred upon him by his a cousin of England," 
and entertained, moreover, such a strong natural predi- 
lection for gorgeous effect in the way of external orna- 
mentation, that he caused the Star of the Black Eagle, 
which he himself bore permanently upon his left breast, 
to be surrounded by a facsimile of the Garter, bearing 
its device " Honi soit qui mal y pense." Ever afterwards, 
until the day of his death, he wore the crachat in which 
the two exalted decorations were thus blended. Every 
subsequent Eing of Prussia upon whom the Garter has 
been bestowed has followed his ancestor's example in 
this particular respect. The present German Emperor, 
the Crown Prince and Prince "William, all three Knights 
of the Garter, wear Stars of the Black Eagle bound 

VOL. n. a 



82 THE BLACK EAGLE. 

round by an enamel imitation of the Blue Kiband ; and 
the same amalgamation of the double insignia is per- 
petuated upon the ceiling of the apartment known as 
" Frederic the First's Chamber" in the Altes Schloss 
in Berlin. 

These curious ana of the chief Prussian Order became 
known to me under circumstances of somewhat excep- 
tional interest. On the second evening after the pro- 
clamation, in the Salle des Glaces at Versailles, of 
William of Hohenzollern, King of Prussia, as German 
Emperor, I received a command to dine with the Crown 
Prince at his quarters in the pretty little villa " Les 
Ombrages," which HisEoyal Highness occupied through- 
out the investment and siege of Paris. With the solitary 
exception of General Beauchamp Walker, the British 
Military Commissioner at that time attached to the 
Eoyal Head Quarters, I was the only Englishman 
amongst the Crown Prince's guests upon the occasion in 
question ; an accident to which I attribute the gratifying 
circumstance that my august host distinguished me more 
than once in the course of the evening by conversing 
with me at considerable length. He was wearing un- 
dress uniform, as it was an informal " friendly 5 ' party; 
and after dinner, whilst we were smoking and chatting 
together I remember that he had just shown me a 
remarkably handsome meerschaum pipe, carved for him 
by the Crown, Princess just before he started upon the 
French campaign he suddenly thrust his right hand 
into the breast of his dragoon tunic, and, pulling out 
three glittering jewels, called my attention to them, say- 
ing "I always wear these about me, even when no 



THE BLACK EAGLE. 83 

ceremonial occasion requires their display. One, as 
you see, is the jewel of our chief Order, another that of 
the Fleece ; the third is the George. I am very proud 
of my Garter, for \ owe the dearest thing in life to me, 
my beloved wife, to the country whose patron saint is 
also the patron saint of that Order. I regard it as of 
good augury ; so much so, that the day before yester- 
day, when my father was proclaimed Emperor, as you 
saw and heard, I put on the Garter itself when I dressed 
to attend the ceremony. It could not be seen by anybody, 
because I was in full cavalry uniform, with high boots 
reaching above the knee, which completely hid it. But I 
had it on ; and I don't mind confessing to you that I should 
have deemed it an unlucky omission had I forgotten to 
don it upon so important so momentous an occasion in 
the history of our House." Immediately after uttering 
these gracious words, so richly fraught with most deli- 
cate flattery to the feelings of every Englishman, the 
Crown Prince pointed out to me the peculiarity in the 
jewel of the Black Eagle, above alluded to, and explained 
to me the origin of the curious blending that had taken 
place in its combined insignia how Edward's jesting 
motto had come to frame and environ Frederic's sober 
device of " Suum cuiqne tribuito" 

The Black Eagle, I know not why, fell into abeyance 
after the death of Frederic L Neither Frederic William I. , 
the " Potsdam-Corporal," nor Frederic II., the " Protes- 
tant Hero," held it in high esteem ; consequently they 
steadfastly abstained from conferring it upon those whom 
they delighted to honour. Nor did Frederic William II., 
nicknamed "The Fat King," distribute it to his Court 



84 THE BED EAGLE. 

favourites or confidential councillors. In the year 1810, 
however, the present Emperor's father, Frederic Wil- 
liam III., issued an entirely new set of " Eegulations 
for the Orders of the Prussian Monarchy " which regu- 
lations practically resuscitated the moribund "Black 
Eagle." They also classified the Eed Eagle, settled the 
organisation of the Johanniter (Order of St. John), then 
a Prussian institution, but since extended to the Austrian 
Empire, and founded the " Order and Coronation Fes- 
tivity, 7 ' which has for the last seventy-six years been 
celebrated on every successive 18th of January. Upon 
this anniversary, I may mention, the Sovereign holds a 
Chapter of the Black Eagle in State, and all the decores 
of the past twelve months dine with him in the White 
Marble Hall of the old Castle at Berlin. As many as 
eighteen hundred have been known to sit down to table 
at one of these banquets. I was present at one, a few 
years ago, and the number of guests on that occasion 
considerably exceeded fifteen hundred; some notion of 
the scale upon which the Eoyal Household is kept up 
may be gathered from the fact that over five hundred 
Court lackeys in gala livery were in attendance upon 
that occasion. 

The Order of the Ked Eagle was originally an 
appanage of the House of Anspach, but came by inhe- 
ritance into that of Hohenzollern in the year 1*792. It 
has four classes, each of which is susceptible of bestowal 
in many several ways. As a military decoration, it is 
highly valued, and conferred with extreme nicety of 
discrimination, each of its nuances being, to the appre- 
hension of those trained in such matters, plainly signi- 



THE RED EAGLE. 85 

fieant of the exact degree of merit in its recipient which. 
it is meant to recognise and reward. Thus, by a glance 
at the sort of Bed Eagle adorning the breast of a Prussian 
army officer, one is enabled to reckon up the estimation 
in which Ms services are held by his Sovereign of 
course, taking Ms actual rank into account as a factor in 
the problem. For instance, if one see a full captain deco- 
rated with the Third Class, one may be sure that he is an 
uncommonly smart and steady officer, who has, moreover, 
especially distinguished himself either in the field or in 
special service connected with some scientific depart- 
ment. Should Ms Cross be " mit der Schleife," that is, 
supplemented by a riband of a certain breadth, his 
merits and feats must have been indeed remarkable ; if 
it be surrounded by a mimic oak- wreath ("mit Eichen- 
laube"), he has certainly a great future before Mm; 
and two crossed swords suspended to it by a tiny ring 
("mit Schwertern am Kinge") indicate that its possessor 
must be a very military phoenix. Thus do Prussians 
wear their orders " with a difference " as Shakespeare 
would have defined this ingenious contrivance for the 
nice repartition of Honour by its Fountain; and the 
" differences " in question run through the several 
classes of the Eed Eagle, each having its distinct and 
definite meaning, perfectly apparent not only to the 
recipient of a decoration, but to Ms military comrades 
and to society at large, " well up " in all the finesses of 
Prussian honorific badges. Conferred upon a civilian, 
not in the immediate employment of the State, the Eed 
Eagle lacks any special significance, because it is usually 
given rather by favour than for merit. If a private 



86 HONORIFIC TITLES* 

citizen, being tolerably wealthy and in good odour with 
some influential personage, conduct himself unobjection- 
ably for thirty or forty years, he may reasonably aspire 
to the Fourth Class of the Eed Eagle, nor, in nine cases 
out of ten, will Ms aspirations be disappointed. But 
the Grand Cross of this Order is a tremendous distinc- 
tion, sparsely granted, and only second in dignity to the 
Collar of the Black Eagle, which, by the way, is worn 
by no fewer than four members of "the British Eoyal 
Family the Prince of "Wales and Dukes of Edinburgh, 
Connaught and Cambridge not counting Prince Chris- 
tian of Schleswig Holstein, who is married to an English 
Princess, and received the first of Prussian Orders upon 
the occasion of his niece's marriage to the Heir Pre- 
sumptive to the German throne. Amongst illustrious 
Latter-Day Frenchmen upon whom the Black Eagle 
has been conferred were the late Emperor Napoleon III. 
and Adolphe Thiers, The Duke of Magenta and the 
Count de St. Vallier are at- the present time entitled to 
wear its broad orange riband and dark blue and golden 
jewel. 

One of the most curious characteristics of Berlin 
society is that every person belonging to it, except un- 
married women, and male minors who have not matricu- 
lated at the University, has some sort of title by which 
he or she expects to be addressed, as well in social par- 
lance as upon the outside of an envelope. This quaint 
fashion is not peculiar to the German capital ; it prevails 
throughout the Fatherland and is even more puncti- 
liously observed in some of the Southern provincial cities 
than in the more prosaic and practical Northern towns, 



HONORIFIC TITLES. 87 

But it mates a more ludicrous impression upon the 
foreigner, perhaps, in Berlin than, elsewhere, because 
the average intelligence of the Modern Athenians is un- 
questionably of a higher standard than that of the 
Suabian Pumpernicklers or Bavarian Sehweiniglers ; and 
culture, many-sidedness and cosmopolitanism seem comi- 
cally out of keeping with a custom which is the outcome 
of petty vanity and paltry ambition. Every man you 
meet or have to do with in the every-day transactions 
of life, no matter whether he belongs to the upper, 
middle or lower strata of society, is endowed with a 
handle to his name ; and if you fail to use that handle, 
which sticks out so prominently that it cannot escape 
your notice, you may be sure that its owner will regard 
yon with disfavour and disdain, as one unacquainted 
with polite usages and totally forlorn of "Bildung." 
Thus, the tradesman who provides your family with 
its daily bread, should you find it necessary to address 
him remonstratively on the subject of short weight or 
an overdose of alum in your morning-roll, is sure to 
take offence unless his full title of " Mr. Master-Baker " 
be duly inscribed upon your communication. If he 
happen to be one of the many privileged beings entitled 
by special diploma to supply any member of the reigning 
family with plum-cakes or tops-and-bottoms, you will 
have to add the prefix of "Mr. Eoy al Court-Purvey or " 
to his more purely professional predicate, or brave his 
just indignation. In its totality, and expressed in the 
German idiom, his title will occupy two lines of close 
writing; unless, indeed, the honorific distinction of a 
Commercial Councillorship should have rewarded the 



88 CUBIOTTS PREDICATES. 

excellence of Ms crust and crumb, in which, case three 
lines will scarcely describe him with complete exhaustive- 
ness. But stay ; he may be a Town-Councillor to boot, 
if he be tolerably well off and disinterestedly minded to 
meddle in his fellow-citizens' affairs. Should this be so, 
you may readily cover the entire back of an envelope, 
with the exception of the small square space reserved 
in one corner for the postage-stamp, with the record of 
his dignities ; and even then it will be odds upon your 
having omitted some essential titular distinction. 

As I said before, everybody, from Prince to Peasant, 
from Duke to Dustman, has his title and insists upon 
its recognition. "Whatever it may be it is invariably 
preceded by an introductory "Mr.," in itself a levelling 
and democratic designation, like the French " Monsieur.' 3 
The highest officer in the army is addressed as "Mr. 
Field-Marshal;" the lowest as "Mr. Corporal." It is 
equally the correct thing to speak of a nobleman as 
"the Mr. Count" or of a hangman as "the Mr. Sharp- 
Judge" (Scharfrichter), If a private person, living 
upon an income derived from landed property, happens 
to lack an absolutely distinctive title, he must be 
addressed, according to the nature of his territorial 
tenure, as "Mr. Great-Estate-Proprietor" or "Mr. 
Knight's -Estate -Proprietor." Should, however, his 
means be in the nature of dividends upon government 
stock, railway scrip, &c., his proper predicate will be 
"Herr Eentier," which may be rendered in English, 
"Mr. Income-Possessor." By that title, if he be your 
friend, he will expect to be invited to your house and 
to be introduced to your other guests. It does not, how- 



CUKIOUS PREDICATES. 89 

ever, convey itself by social convention to Ms wife, as 
does almost every other class or professional predicate. 
This is particularly hard on the spouses of some wealthy 
gentlemen who, having no special occupation and being 
content to abstain from the performance of any public 
function whatsoever, are, from the German social point 
of view, nobodies. It is, however, open to the better- 
half of such a low-minded nonentity, satisfied with gro- 
velling in obscure, unhonoured comfort, to style herself 
"Mrs. Private Person" Germanice, Frau Privatiere, a 
title which, to English ears, has quite a romantic flavour 
of piracy, letters~of-marque, buried treasure and the 
Spanish Main. 

But little joy accrues to the well-regulated German 
female soul from the right to sport so tamely indefinite 
a prefix as Frau Privatiere. Better be " Mrs. Tribunal- 
Assessor," or "Mrs. Manufactory Inspector," than so 
meek a thing as "Mrs. Private Person." How blissful, 
on the other hand, are the feelings of a right-minded, 
self-respecting Teutonic matron who is entitled by the 
unwritten laws of social etiquette to exact from her 
dearest Mends that they shall greet her as "Mrs. Upper 
Privy Government Councillor" or " Mrs. General Army 
Auditor ! " The ladies whose husbands belong to what 
is known in Germany as the " Honoratioren " Class 
that is to say, a sort of blended military, official and 
municipal hierarchy, consisting of persons holding rank 
of the higher sorts in careers recognised by the State, 
and about equivalent to the five upper categories of the 
Russian Tchin are accustomed to meet with frequency 
at coffee-parties afternoon affairs given in succession 



90 THE SCIENCE OF PREDICATES. 

by the fair planets of that particular sidereal system. At 
these gatherings, some of which I have been privileged 
to attend in the character of a harmless and tolerably 
respectable alien, a liberal education in the unnumbered 
nuances of German titular observance, as precise as they 
are delicate, may be rapidly acquired by one who is at 
once attentive and retentive. The ladies are, as a rule, 
extremely voluble and perfectly up in the science of Pre- 
dicates. There is no fear that any of them will fail to accost 
her neighbour with a correct recital of the exact official 
grade to which the latter has .a real or honorary claim, 
or will condone any shortcomings with respect to her 
own official designation. 8uum cuique tribuito, the device of 
the Black Eagle, is the fundamental principle underlying 
all the forms of intercourse current in these interchanges 
of hospitality between the fair members of the Honora- 
tioren caste. To every coffee and cake-consuming dame 
is accorded full and punctilious recognition of her hier- 
archical quality and attributes no more, no less, under 
terrible penalties of satirical comment, severe reproof, 
crushing condemnation, and even but only in cases of 
hardened offenders absolute ostracism. Privy-Council- 
loresses and Councilloresses likely to become Privy herd 
together at the a Kaffee-Gesellschaften ; ?? so do Mrs. 
Colonels and Lieutenant-Colonels. There are dozens of 
such social divisions ; each madly jealous of the one just 
above it, and yearning for promotion to a higher stratum. 
Certain Free-Lances, mostly young and of the male 
persuasion, are tolerated in three or four sets simultane- 
ously, perhaps for some special diverting capacity, per- 
haps on account of some abnormal qualification in the 



POST-MOETEM TITLES. 91 

way of birth or official family connections. They usually 
carry gossip and scandal from one circle to another, and 
are put through their facings by the " leading ladies" 
of each several clique with appalling rigour and cross- 
examining ingenuity worthy of the Old Bailey in its 
palmiest Ballantine days. 

The passion for titles is so deeply rooted in the Gfer- 
man nature that Death itself avails not to extirpate it 
at least, from the breasts of sorrowing survivors. One 
would think that it could matter but little to the be- 
reaved relatives of a deceased Government clerk, trades- 
man or operative say an engine-driver whether or not 
the futile and insensate predicate by which it pleased 
him to designate himself during Ms sojourn in this dis- 
tracted orb should be indelibly engraved upon his, tomb- 
stone after death, or pompously set forth in the announce- 
ment of his demise printed in the " Hatch, Match, and 
Despatch " columns of the daily newspapers. It does 
matter, however, and a good deal at that, as may be con- 
clusively demonstrated by the^foUowing advertisement 
one of an enormous and grimly humorous class, in itself 
an inexhaustible source of amusement to the intelligent 
stranger within the German gates which I translate 
literally from the original, published in a recent issue of 
a leading Berlin journal. 

u Yesterday afternoon fell asleep softly in the Lord 
the widowed Mrs. Master Chimney-Sweep Pumpkin, born 
Eosalia Snipe. Her end was Peace 1 The mourning- 
ones who are left behind." 

Amongst the minor "ills that flesh is heir to" probably 
the most vexatious is an absurd patronymic. Many 



92 ABSURD PATRONYMICS. 

splendid intellectual potentialities have been crushed 
under the weight of a ridiculous family name, which 
has deterred men of great natural parts from courting 
publicity, and induced them to prefer an obscure, com- 
monplace existence to meritorious notoriety, rendered 
intolerably irksome by the accidental heritage of an 
anachronism. Englishmen are peculiarly susceptible to 
the pain that accrues from congenital mishaps of this 
class. They are, as a rule, too proud and manly to rid 
themselves of a transmitted incubus by the simple expe- 
dient of changing a ludicrous name for one euphonious, 
picturesque, or even purely insignificant. They deem 
it their duty to u suffer and be strong" under a life- 
long infliction, the obvious remedy for which involves, 
as it were, a tacit confession of moral cowardice and 
an implied slur upon their progenitors ; but they shrink 
from " facing the music" on the world's stage, saddled 
with an appellation that, to a certain extent, disqualifies 
them from being seriously considered by the audience. 
Such names as Hogsflesh, Muggins, and Snooks are in- 
born disabilities to poets, tragedians, musical composers, 
and aspirants to eminence in any aesthetic career. It has 
not yet been forgotten how, a score or so of years ago, 
when an Act was passed enabling Englishmen to change 
their names without incurring the expense and trouble 
of taking out Royal Letters, one of the first persons who 
profited by that legislative concession was a Mr. Bugg, 
who hastened to disencumber himself of his unsavoury 
patronymic by solemnly advertising in the columns of 
the Times that it was his will and pleasure to be thence- 
forth known to his friends, acquaintances and fellow- 



GERMAN FAMILY NAMES. 93 

citizens by the compound cognomen of Norfolk-Howard* 
Homeric laughter greeted this unconsciously humorous 
announcement; but when the public had had time to 
reflect how serious a calamity the name of Bugg had 
probably proved to Its unfortunate owner eyer since he 
emerged from swaddling-clothes, reasonable folk did not 
hesitate to admit that he had acted wisely in repu- 
diating that ancestral abomination. 

More comical and repulsive names are current in Ger- 
many than in any other European country ; but Germans 
do not seem to suffer from the miseries of eccentric 
nomenclature as keenly as do Englishmen, Frenchmen, 
or even Italians. Perhaps their indifference in this 
regard springs partly from their natural shortcoming, as 
far as a sense of humour is concerned, and partly from 
the deep and solid self-satisfaction which is one of their 
national characteristics. However this may be, it is 
certain that they do not feel the pressure of absurd or 
revolting patronymics as we do, and are not hampered 
in their purposes or restrained in their ambitions by any 
considerations connected with the measure of ridicule or 
disgust to which they may be rendered liable by a mis- 
fortune for which they are, after all, in no way account- 
able. A glance over the pages of the Berlin Directory 
will enable any one acquainted with the German lan- 
guage to pick out hundreds of astonishingly incongruous 
names, owned by persons holding distinguished positions 
in the official, commercial, and artistic circles of the 
capital. No social class is exempt from this quaint 
affliction. Illustrious nobles are often as ridiculously 
named as the humblest proletary. For instance, one of 



94 STRANGE TITLES, 

the most ancient baronial families in Prussia rejoices in 
the designation " Gatekeeper-of-Hell," and the name of 
the wealthiest Count in the German Empire, literally 
rendered into our vernacular, is " Handle of Thunder- 
Marrow.'' To our apprehension these patronymics are 
no whit less nonsensical and unfit for family use than 
the utterly plebeian "Bloodsausage," "Whitecamel," 
or "Twoyearoldwildboar," that abound in the Father- 
land ; but Germans see nothing funny or uncommon in 
them, and are unfeignedly surprised when the intelligent 
foreigner sojourning in their midst ventures to hint 
that, in any other country, names so extravagantly 
incongruous would inevitably render life intolerable to 
their luckless possessors, by reason of the inexhaustible 
banter, chaff, and satirical comment they could not fail 
to suggest to social wags and comic journalists. 

The majority of the more high-sounding and poetical 
names that meet the eye upon German shop-fronts, or in 
the advertising sheets of the Teutonic daily press, be- 
longs to persons of Jewish extraction. Not more than a 
couple of centuries ago the German Israelite, as a rule, 
was forlorn of a family name. He was either known by 
a "front-name," supplemented by that of his -father as 
"Aaron-ben-David," or "Solomon-ben-Israel," or by 
some nickname owing its origin to the nature of his 
occupation, or perhaps to a conspicuous physical 
peculiarity. This vagueness in his denomination, and 
his errant commercial habits, enabled him to dodge the 
tax-gatherer, and gave the German administrative a good 
deal of trouble in dealing with him from a fiscal point 
of view. It was therefore resolved to make him dis- 



GERMAN- JEWISH PATRONYMICS. 95 

tinctly identifiable by the simple process of compelling 
Mm to take a family name, stick to it during Ms own 
life, and transmit it by legal act of registration to Ms 
children. 'No restrictions were imposed upon Mm in the 
matter of choice, and Ms flowery Oriental instincts 
prompted him to select patronymics significant of things 
beautiful or noble in nature, of great provinces or stately 
cities, kingly birds and beasts, moral virtues, and pic- 
turesque thoughts. Hence the following names, proper to 
German Israelite families of all classes : Valley of Lilies, 
Mountain-of-Koses, Stone-of-Honour, Silesian, English- 
man, Warsaw, Viennese, Eagle, Lion, Whale, Honourable, 
Pious, Humility, Trust God, Peace-of-Countries, Bich-in- 
Virtue, Lovely-Home, Holiday-Evening, Mountain-of- 
Thanks, Ladies' -Praise, and many others as romantic or 
idealistic as the foregoing. Alike astute and artistic, 
the Jews of the Fatherland, under stern compulsion to 
establish their identity as ratepayers, bestowed upon 
themselves all the prettiest and noblest patronymics the 
German language could afford, leaving to their Christian 
compatriots the ugliest and most ignominious. 

How amazingly prosaic were the suggestions occurring 
to the true-born German popular mind in the good old 
days of paternal government, when burghers and plebeians, 
theretofore to all legal intents and purposes nameless, were 
coerced into assuming distinctive family designations, 
may be gathered from the following specimens of German 
nomenclature, culled at random from the Berlin Direc- 
tory and from a week's " Births, Betrothals, Marriages, 
and Deaths," published in the Vbsmche Zeitung : 
Murder, Rage, Brawler (a clergyman), Wickedvillage 



96 ASTOUNDING PATRONYMICS. 

(an eminent pianoforte manufacturer). Cowardly (a com- 
mercial councillor), "Wood-Devil (a popular musical 
composer). Cucumber, Falsehood, Hatred (a professor of 
theology), Beastcorner, Sourlierring (a captain of Foot- 
Guards), Mustardlife, Scorn, Cat, Heathen, Porridge- 
belly, Goose-eye, Liversausage, Extortioner, Bullock's- 
meat, Hare'sleg, Squint, Giantcabbage, Shakehead, 
Littlebeast, Gizzard, Potsprinkler, Chitchatmountain, 
Buglife, and Scoundrel. The majority of these names 
reveal tolerably vulgar instincts in their devisers, and 
tell their own story to boot. They more or less indicate 
personal characteristics, pursuits, peculiarities, predilec- 
tions, and proclivities; the circumstances attending their 
conception and adoption may, with but slight exercise 
of the imagination, be readily pictured in the mind's 
eye. But there be other by no means uncommon Ger- 
man names, so intrinsically eccentric, anomalous, and 
unreasonable, that it is scarcely possible to account to 
one's self for their origin or appropriation by sane 
human beings. "What, for instance, can have been 
the motive prompting a son of Teut to call himself 
" Effervescentweather," " Doornail/' or u Blistervil- 
lage" ? From what queer fancies or odd incidents did 
such names as " Frothmountain," " Cat'selbow," " Pan- 
handle, " c l Horsedeceiver, " u Tigerstream, " " D ouble- 
flourish," " Scissorscorner," and " Daily basin" derive 
their raison d'etre ? Every conjecture I have hitherto 
ventured respecting the genesis of these astounding com- 
pound irrelevancies has, I am bound to say, been utterly 
lacking in verisimilitude. Perhaps some of my readers 
may be more successful than myself in divining the 



BRAUNSCHWEIG AND HOHENZOLLERN. 97 

a unde derivator " of such a perplexing "front-name" 
as, let us say, " Knuckle-hamlet." I cordially recom- 
mend it to their attention and research. 

There is, indeed, an inexhaustible wealth of puzzle- 
dom in German names. "Why, in the name of all that 
is august and illustrious, should the senior Royal Duke 
of the Eatheiiand, a near relative of our own Queen, 
and own "brother to a deceased magnate whose statue 
adorns fair Geneva, have borne such a farcical title as 
" Brown, be silent" ? Of what heinous offence had the 
capital of a flourishing little German Duchy been guilty 
that it should have been subjected to the perpetual 
punishment of so unpleasant a designation as " Bowel- 
Town " ? "High-laser " may seem appropriate enough, 
as a descriptive family name ? to the supreme ruler of 
Germany, but it is certainly open to objection as an 
incessant reminder to the German people of the least 
agreeable characteristic of that great and ancient House, 
whose venerable head now wears the Imperial crown. 

The North Germans are not a funny people. Amongst 
their many splendid qualities, cheerfulness of temper 
cannot conscientiously be included, even by those who, 
like myself, are notoriously their admirers. If there be 
any latent humour in them, it rarely rises to the surface, 
and is exhibited quite unconsciously. It is only when 
the North Germans mean to be particularly earnest that 
they are, to the foreigner's apprehension at least, now 
and then comical. Their rare efforts to be the latter in 
good faith produce a very depressing effect upon the 
spirits of the intelligent alien. They have no cotem- 
porary comic literature, and the laughter of their theatres 

VOL. II. II 



98 PRUSSIAN PROSAICISM. 

is derived from French, sources. I do not suppose that 
the Spartans were jocular folk. Those Prussians of 
antiquity were probably eyen such grave, valorous, 
astute, and thrifty souls as are these modern Laconians 
of Deutschland. Perhaps the prevalence of high animal 
spirits in a nation is incompatible with its possession of 
qualities such as have enabled Prussia to achieve the 
extraordinary political and military successes which 
raised her, within the brief period of twelve years, from 
.the rank of a third-rate kingdom to that of a first-class 
empire ; and it is possible that a keen sense of humour, 
when a national characteristic, may interfere with the 
conception of great and perilous enterprises, or, at least, 
with their stern and unflinching execution. Nothing of 
the kind has deterred the Prussians from the doing of 
deeds which have made as deep and broad a mark upon 
European history as did the performances of Napoleon I. 
The few laughter-provoking anecdotes incidental to their 
great wars, such as that concerning Moltke's celebrated 
pound of snuff, or as the no less famous story of Wal- 
dersee and the cowskin, owe their humorousness to the 
vehemence of the contrast they present between the 
extreme insignificance of the respective articles consti- 
tuting the foundations upon which their superstructure 
of ludicrous detail reposes, and the transcendent solem- 
nity, resolution, and perseverance applied to the con- 
sideration and manipulation of those articles by the mili- 
tary administrative authorities not to any intention of 
being funny, or even faintest apprehension of a comical 
aspect in their transactions, on the part of those authori- 
ties. In fact, as above pointed out, the Prussian is only 



GERMAN ADVERTISEMENT. 90 

comical and that infrequently when lie does not in 
the least intend to be so; and then chiefly by reason of 
the superlative gravity which he imports into ordinary 
and commonplace matters, as well as of the curious 
naivete pervading many of Ms actions and utterances a 
naivete so quaintly out of keeping with the intrinsic 
seriousness and even prosaicism of his character, that it 
furnishes to Ms sayings and doings the comic element 
of which, lacking it, they would be utterly forlorn. The 
sharp contrasts and mirth-moving anomalies resulting, 
from the clashing of these apparently irreconcilable 
characteristics of his are most conspicuously exhibited in 
the advertisement-sheets of his newspapers, inexhaustible 
sources of amusement to foreigners acquainted with the 
German language and susceptible of the ludicrous. In 
these printed chronicles of demand and supply, the North 
German unreservedly reveals his inner self to Ms fellow- 
countrymen. He has no concealments from society ; he 
takes Teutonic humanity into his confidence with a 
child-like simplicity that is touching; the wMle his 
announcements are couched in a style so punctilious and 
a phraseology so elaborate as altogether to preclude any 
belief in their spontaneity. They are highly relishable 
literary nuts, of wMch the kernel is simplicity itself, 
wMlst the shell is laboriously carved and ornamented. 

Many curious strata of the German character are laid 
open to the inquiring eye in these advertisement sheets. 
One of the most remarkable is the German's fondness of 
publicity. Another is his insatiate passion for titular 
distinction. It may be that this proclivity is not inborn , 
but rather the outcome of the very hearty contempt for 

H2 



100 FAMILY ADVERTISEMENTS. 

idleness generally entertained in the Fatherland, which 
feeling generates a requirement, as it were, that every- 
body should quite distinctly and unmistakably be some- 
thing, and prove it. 

The " Familien-Nachrichten," which teem with these 
queer titles, are exhaustive of the chief acts in human 
life ; they record not only births, deaths, and marriages, 
but betrothals to boot. "When two persons of opposite 
sexes become engaged, the parents of the young lady 
advertise that fact, as well as the parties concerned the 
latter in the following formula, "As betrothed ones, 
recommend themselves Albert Goat and Bertha Yalley 
of Lilies." A somewhat startling feature of the " Births 53 
announcements is that the papas are associated with the 
event notified, never the mammas; as, for instance, 
" Mr. Urban-Tribunal-Councillor Eagle-mountain, a son, 3 ' 
or "Mr. Second-Lieutenant-on-the-Ketired-List Grcy- 
horsepenny, twins." This strange attribution I take to 
be a quite unconscious illustration of the systematic 
manner in which female influence is ignored throughout 
Germany. Children are set down to the father's side of 
the joint account ; the mother's share in the very impor- 
tant function of their production is left unrecorded, 
except in cases where the male parent, unable to restrain 
his exultation with respect to the " happy event," 
advertises it himself in such terms as the following : 
"My dear wife Clara was safely delivered on the 2nd 
inst. The faithful God has given me a strong boy. 
Hallelujah ! " In many of these announcements a com- 
fortable familiarity with the Supreme Being is evinced, 
which leads one to hope that religion may not, after all, 



MATRIMONIAL ADVERTISEMENTS. 101 

be at such a discount in Prussia as it is alleged to be by 
the Germania. 

Amazingly funny are the matrimonial advertisements, 
emanating from persons of both sexes, which adorn the 
columns of morning and evening papers alike. I am 
assured that they frequently lead to serious business; 
nothing can be conceived more ludicrous than their 
wealth of practical details, their single-hearted frankness 
(frequently overstepping the bouA|ls of discretion), and 
their steady contemplation of " the main chance." Here 
is an excellent specimen, culled from a Government 
organ: "To the for-marriage-wishing. A forty-two- 
year-old, not comely, but of easy temper, evangelical, 
and with-furniture- well -provided Eoyal-State-official, 
wishes earnestly with a tolerably young, of pleasing 
exterior and fair complexion, blue-eyed, in all domestic 
arrangements expert, with from 1,200 to 1,500 
endowed, maiden or widow, an honourable connection 
together to hook. Ladies on this proposition amicably 
reflecting will most amiably their offers to Ehinoceros, 
at the Newspaper Expedition Office, send. 

May this advertisement soon prove potential, 
Answers, of course, are strictly confidential." 

The more romantic feelings of this class of advertiser 
frequently break out in verse, as do the raptures of the 
young lover, before his betrothal has been notified to 
the public. They subside notably after that event, the 
calm bliss of fiances in Germany much resembling that 
of married folk in England. Political or municipal per- 
plexities, too, prompt some enthusiasts to rhythmical 
utterance in the advertisement-sheet. Declarations are 



102 ECCENTRIC ADVERTISEMENTS. 

made, love-meetings arranged, through, the same medium- 
"The dark-eyed, luxuriant-locked beauty who sat in 
stall 51, fourth row, of the "Wallner Theatre, on Tuesday 
evening, and wept pearly tears over Anna Ivanovna's 
sorrows, is passionately entreated to communicate her 
honoured name to Ypsilon, a young Israelitish merchant 
in flourishing circumstances. Love, Eespect, and Silence ! 
At the editor's office." Some lovers indulge in feeble 
cryptograms. Their favourite organ is the Jreu&- 
Zeitung. It is an old and true adage that says < c one half of 
the world knows not how the other half lives." "No one 
can read through the "Beikgen " of a German journal 
especially of the provincial variety without becoming 
convinced that not 1 per cent, of mankind possesses the 
least knowledge or idea of what the other 99 per 
cent. want. If, as Sydney Smith maintained, the essence 
of humour be incongruity, German advertisements can 
scarcely fail to be regarded as the most inimitably comic 
compositions of the day. In what other class of publi- 
cation, for instance, could we hope to find anything so 
ludicrous as the propounding of an affinity between 
music and cotton-spinning ? This connection is calmly 
established in the following advertisement, extracted 
from a recent issue of the Schlesische Zeitung : U A 
musician of the E flat clarionettist order, who can play 
the second violin or tenor, and a B trumpeter, who can. 
play the double-bass, can be employed lastingly and 
securely in a town-band in Southern Germany. Special 
consideration and favour will be accorded to applicants 
who have already been employed in mechanical spinning- 
manufactories, and possess good testimonials as to their 



ROYAL PREDICATES. 103 

thorough, knowledge of both callings. Weberei und 
Musik" 

The mania for inyesting German humanity with 
unmeaning or exaggerative titles is confined to no social 
class. It prevails throughout all ranks and grades of 
men and women, from the highest to the lowest. You 
buy your fruit of "Mr. Court-Supplier Borehard;" 
you are introduced at a dinner-party to "Mrs. Economy 
Councillor Hedgestake ;' ? you pay your paying-rate to 
" Mr. Municipal-Taxes-Collector Lionstone." The Em- 
peror himself, simplest and most unaffected of living 
German gentlemen as he is, does not enjoy immunity 
from the swollen and windy phraseology in which the 
Germans express their recognition of personal distinc- 
tion, real or imaginary. He is invariably styled " The 
All-Highest" (Der Allerhochstc) in the newspapers, 
which sounds parlously like an infringement of divine 
privilege. His actions and movements are described, 
plurally as regards himself, in infinite false concords and 
outrages upon grammar, as for instance, " His Majesty, 
our All-Highest King and Lord, have deigned to nomi- 
nate, J? &c., &o. ; or, "His Majesty are returned to 
Berlin; All-Highest the same ones (Allerhochstdie- 
selbcn) rejoice themselves in possession of a blooming 
health." The nuances observed in addressing people of 
different ranks (in writing) are subtle, very subtle, and 
can only be mastered after a long residence in Germany, 
by a person of singularly observant habits and retentive 
memory. 



CHAPTER IV. 

LIFE IN BERLIN EASTER AND CHRISTMAS CUSTOMS SUM- 
MER AMUSEMENTS PRESS PHENOMENA SLEDGING-. 

EASTER-TIDE is tlie great Protestant holiday-time the 
annual period during which the " Reformed " popula- 
tions of the Continent indulge in high jinks. All the 
saints' days and anniversary relaxations enjoyed by tho 
inhabitants of Roman Catholic countries are sifted down, 
as it were, by Huguenot utilitarianism into one brief 
yearly space of holiday observance, lasting from Good 
Friday until the Wednesday after Easter Sunday, during 
which space the ordinary affairs and interests of human 
life suffer a species of mitigated annihilation that is 
fraught to the upper classes of society, at least with a 
considerable number of petty semi-comical ills and 
inconveniences. It is not easy to got your family 
dinner cooked at Eastertide in Protestant Germany ; tho 
most obedient of servants cast domestic discipline to tho 
winds, and plunge into Paschal saturnalia. Nor is it 
much easier to get your dinner at a gasthaus^ thoso 
establishments being thronged from morning till night 
with legions of unknown people, part and a very im- 
portant part of whose annual programme for this 
festive season is to allay their hunger in public. No 



EASTER INCONVENIENCES. 105 

newspapers are published from, the Friday morning till 
the Saturday night, nor again from the Sunday morning 
till the Tuesday night the second interval of extin- 
guishment, as to the news of the world, lasting some 
sixty hours, during which, for all you can learn of 
current occurrences in the very town you live in ? you 
might as well be in an open boat somewhere about the 
centre of the Pacific Ocean. Supposing this to be Easter 
Sunday, it may be that yesterday afternoon an earth- 
quake destroyed London ; in Berlin I cannot know of 
it until to-morrow evening at seven. This is, perhaps, 
not a very serious grievance, even to an Englishman who 
is congenitally afflicted by a burning and insatiable 
thirst for " latest intelligence." To a German it is none 
at all, for Germans che& eux do not care at all about 
news. "What concerns the country the Government will 
look to ; the rest, what does it matter to them ? In 
truth, the interruption of one's news-purveyance is a 
trouble to be put up with easily ; not so the suspension 
of their functions, however, by other persons, upon 
whom what ecclesiastics are apt to call " the old Adam" 
is pretty much dependent for keeping his microcosm in 
good working order. A man can maintain life, on a 
pinch, without telegrams; but nature abhors the void that 
is caused by a prolonged non-presence of butcher's meat 
and vegotables. Berlin tradesmen will not " stand and 
deliver" during the jocund Easter- time j you must lay 
in stores as though it were for a siege, and hold out 
gallantly, hopeless of succour from without, for the best 
part of the week. It is during Easter that one comes to 
understand the unfeigned benignity of sausage as a 



106 EASTER CUSTOMS. 

national institution. Sausage helps the lamed house- 
hold over many a culinary stile, and savourily bridges 
the dismal and uncertain interval between one hot meal 
and another. Sausage will keep, mostly ] one may have 
quite a stock of the article on hand, and suffer no preju- 
dice. Few Englishmen realise to themselves how many 
highly respectable ay, high-well-born Prussian families 
live chiefly on sausage from Green Thursday to St. 
Celestin's Day. I have called upon Excellencies at 
Eastertide a u calling " season in North Germany 
and, being unwarily shown into the dining-room by a 
domestic unaccustomed to do the honours of the front 
door, have corne upon my exalted acquaintances eating 
sausage and bread sur le pouce, so to speak, without even 
the whited sepulchre of a tablecloth to give an air of 
regular dinner to the frugal meal imposed upon them by 
the annual holiday. 

By two o'clock P.M. on Easter morning everybody has 
given everybody else an egg, and devoured a gruesome 
comestible yclept " Osternpfannekuchen/' which looks 
like a fragment of tertiary formation, and is about as 
digestible. But in North Germany they do not confine 
their Easter celebrations to the bestowing of eggs and 
consumption of cakes in the guise of old red sandstond. 
No ; they go higher up in the scale of creation than 
that. They give one another all manner of little animals 
in chocolate. Why a hare should be deemed a gift 
peculiarly appropriate to Eastertide I have vainly en- 
deavoured to discover ; but so it is that is, in Berlin. 
A hare, solid if small, and made of sweetstutf hollow, 
if large, of papier-mftehe frame, and copiouslv provided 



EASTER GIFTS. 107 

with intestinal sugarplums is the correct quadruped to 
oifer, at tlie Paschal season, to any one upon whom you 
may be desirous to confer a handsome modicum of pro- 
spective good fortune. It is " lucky " to receive such a 
hare, which carries with it no painful March allusions, 
as in England ; he who is popular, or blessed with many 
friends, finds his home-preserves liberally stocked with 
lepores on Easter Sunday morning. At the root of this 
droll custom doubtless lies some mystical Old-German, 
"Wendish, or haply Scandinavian rite, long since for- 
gotten of the vulgar. In Southern Italy the hare is by 
no means looked upon as a luck-bringer. I have known 
educated people in the Papal States to turn back and 
forego a projected excursion because a hare crossed their 
path. "Airfares pays, autres mceurs." As I am writing 
there faces me a merry brown hare to eat which were 
death carrying upon his back a bucket full of silver 
pills, intended, I presume, to assuage the anguish of 
him who should be rash enough to swallow their bearer. 
The possession of this unwholesome animal, I am assured, 
will secure me a good time for at least the coming 
twelvemonth. So mote it be ! Lambs and mice are also 
regarded favourably as family and friendly Easter offer- 
ings ; but they have no pretensions to compete with hares 
as infeoffed of luck-bestowing properties. The dealers 
in bonbons and other Paschal paraphernalia exercise con- 
siderable ingenuity in meeting the overwhelming demand 
for eggs and hares that accrues during Passion Week ; 
they even go so far as to blend the two objects in request, 
thereby producing phenomena the aspect of which might 
cause the earnest naturalist's hair to stand erect like 



108 CHRISTMAS IN GERMANY. 

quills upon the fretful porcupine. I have seen with my 
own eyes hybrid monsters, half hare and half egg, 
which leave the spectator in horrible uncertainty as to 
whether the hare is laying the egg, or the egg is hatch- 
ing the hare. Surely this conversion of a familiar 
mammal into an oviparous monstrosity is an unprincipled 
truckling to Easter requirements. 

If there be one day of the year upon which, more 
particularly than upon any other, it beseems a foreigner 
residing in the Fatherland to attempt a description of 
German Christinas and the manner in which it is kept, 
that day, assuredly, is Boxing Day ; for " Boxing " may 
be held to be the familiar, idiomatical English rendering 
of " Bescheerung," and Bescheerung is the very life 
and soul, inward spirit, and outward manifestation of a 
German Christmas. Not on Boxing Day, however, but 
on Christmas Eve, is everybody in Germany " boxed ?? 
by some one else. Servants by their masters, clerks by 
their employers, officials by the State, actors by lessees 
any and every person who has, during the year, done 
something for you, or who, not having done anything 
for you, is moved by the spirit to assert that he or she 
would have done something for you had an opportunity 
for so doing presented itself; the servants of your 
friends, the resplendent Smsscs that embellish official 
portals ; Herr Schnitt, who cuts your hair (and is tipped 
after every operation); Rudolph, your Loibkolhior, or 
" body waiter," who has already received hundreds of 
Trinkgelder from you in the course of the year all 
these worthy souls expect to be " boxed" by you at 
this season, and, as a rule, got what they expect. This 



CHRISTMAS IN GERMANY. 109 

custom, which is, after all, a kindly one, and promotes, 
on the whole (there are exceptions, though !) good 
feeling between man and man, weighs somewhat 
heavily npon the heads of large families, causing them 
to regard the advent of Christmas with sentiments the 
reverse of hilarious. A friend of mine in Berlin, who 
has quite a hatful of children, twenty servants, and 
fifteen dependents of a higher social order, such as 
librarian, secretary, governesses, masters, intendants, &c., 
does not get off in the matter of " Bescheerung " under 
an annual sum that few State employes in Prussia earn in 
a whole year pour tout potage. A queer offshoot of the 
"boxing" custom, as practised in Northern Germany, 
is the giving to one's servants of bread, in loaves, and 
of packets tied up with riband, of " Pfefferkuchen," a 
sort of pale and mawkish gingerbread, the very aspect 
of which makes a cultivated pylorus quake and con- 
vulsively contract itself. German domestics are, indeed, 
very keen upon this appalling comestible, and deeply 
resent the omission of its bestowal. It is dimly con- 
nected, in their minds, with luck to come, and must be 
given, not bought with one's own money, to impart the 
good fortune that is supposed to be mixed up somehow 
with its clammy, stick-jawy, and supremely indigestible 
substance. By reason of its association with luck a 
popular opinion which I believe to have been promul- 
gated by the medical faculty the baneful Pfefferkuchen 
has an enormous sale in Prussia. To obtain an exact 
appreciation of it, in all its pernicious varieties and 
deadly glory, one should visit the open-air market in 
the "Schlossfreiheit," a temporary settlement of huts 



110 PEPPERCAKE. 

divided off into blocks and penetrated by petroleum- 
lighted alleys that are thronged by Berliners of all 
classes, on " boxing " thoughts intent, from morning till 
night. In this and other al fresco markets of this city 
may be obtained, by careful observation, an understand- 
ing of Pfefferkuchen in all its branches. There is the 
military Pfefferkuchen, almost as large as life, and nearly 
as stiff a morsel to tackle as its human prototype 
grenadier or fusilier. I can conceive this hero to be 
capable of fatal exploits. Stern is his bearing, menacing 
his attitude. There is the sentimental Pfefferkuchen 
a heart, or more than one in extreme cases, inlaid with 
calcareous sugar-plums and a highly-coloured picture of 
lovers a sort of dyspepsia-dealing Yalentine. There is 
the Pfefferkuchen prosaic a thick, long, brilliantly- 
varnished, heavy slab for purely domestic purposes, 
which might appropriately be labelled " The Family 
Doctor's Faithful Friend.' 7 There is the Pfefferkuchen 
playful, portraying Herr Eladderadatsch, "Dor Deutsche 
Michel," or some other humorous folks-type. There is 
the legendary or supernatural Pfefferkuchen, enabling 
its purchaser to substantially consume Knecht Euprecht, 
Santa Glaus, Number Nip, and the Enemy of Mankind, 
whom he had hitherto only devoured in a literary sense. 
These are some of Pfefferkuchen's more conspicuous 
varieties ; to recount them all were sheer mid- winter 
madness. Non J)i, non homines ! But the custom of 
giving Pfefferkuchen, of one sort or another, has taken 
firm root in the Brandenburg Marches. It is odd, but 
true, that friends who really esteem you and wish you 
well will present you, at Christmastide, with a slab or 



PEPPERCAKE. Ill 

two of this pseudo-gingerbread, the comfortable disposal 
of which would perplex a hearty elephant. One can 
fancy an ostrich, after having "put away " a six-pound 
Pfefferkuchen, wildly imploring its keeper next morning 
for a box of Cockle's Pills and a pint of Pyretic Saline. 
And yet a good friend of mine, of whose sincere regard 
I am assured, bestowed upon me one Christmas Eve 
such a slab as that which is above referred to under the 
heading "The Pfefferkuchen prosaic-" Let us hope 
that this gift was merely a matter of seasonable "form." I 
gave it away in charity, upon the principle laid down 
by that lumen ecclesice the Dean of St. Patrick's i.e. 
"Whatever is totally unfit for human consumption, let 
it be given to the poor ! " Christmastide is the proper 
time of year to make your fellow-creatures happy if you 
can, and, in the case of Pfefferkuehen, it is unques- 
tionably more blessed to give than to receive. 

For young Germany Christmas Eve is the night of the 
three hundred and sixty-five; the great anniversary, 
pleasantly surrounded by a diaphanous cloud of semi-mys- 
terious, semi-humorous attributes; the one link remaining 
to connect the material and immaterial worlds; the rally- 
ing-ground of all those creations of fancy that, somehow 
or other, have power in a land of contradictions to shed a 
golden glamour over the sternest materialism to poetise 
knitting, as it were, and etherealise Butterbrod. On 
that night the children reign really in Germany, though 
virtually they are the obedient and even timorous 
subjects of various supernatural influences, the tradi- 
tional incorporations of which are as real to them as 
Punch and Father Christmas are to the English child. 



112 KNECHT BUPRECHT. 

And yet I don't know; perhaps the juvenile Father- 
landers have allowed that traitor loon Scepticism to 
insinuate himself into the stronghold of their unsophis- 
ticate Christmas faith of late years, for certain familiar 
figures-in-chief of German child-lore are less numerously 
represented nowadays than of yore in the market-place 
settlements that spring up, mushroom-like, every 
December d ^intention of the Berlinese rising genera- 
tion ; in particular, Knecht Kuprecht, although one of 
the quaintest and most sympathetic from the grown-up 
point of view of all the fantastic figures that tenant a 
German child's imagination, and furnish him with 
plentiful dream-matter at this season. On Christmas 
Eye, at twelve o'clock, things being as they should be in 
the child-realm, a loud and imperious knocking should 
be heard at the door of the room in which the family 
save one of its male members, and where can he be, I 
should like to know ? is assembled ; whereat the hearts 
of those youngsters who are conscious of school-short- 
comings and domestic delicts sink appreciably within 
their bosoms, the while their livers are turned to water. 
But the very extra good children feel a joyful leaping-up 
of the spirits, just chastened with that involuntary thrill 
which is suggested by the knowledge of an approaching 
contemplation of something decidedly outside the 
natural laws of every-day life. Omne ignotum pro terrililL 
An impavid elder of the household opens the door. In 
stumps a bowed, bearded, sturdy being, dressed in a sort 
of rough grey cassock and falling pointed cap, with a 
huge sack carried over his left shoulder, and a long 
birch-rod tucked under Ms right arm. A heavy chain 



OTECHT ETTPEECHT. 113 

Is loosely knotted round Ms waist, and clanks in a rather 
appalling manner as he advances towards the Familien- 
kreis. "With sharp, searching glances he takes stock of 
the personnel of the household, devoting an especially 
terrifying attention to those amongst the youngsters 
whose petty delinquencies suddenly appear to them to 
have acquired a heinousness for which no repentance 
can atone. " What is your name ? " (Wie heisst Du ?) 
Knecht Euprecht (for it is he !) suddenly thunders out 
to one of these self-accusers. Truly, that is an evil 
moment ! But Knecht Euprecht is not to be trifled 
with ; so a squeaking voice makes an effort to gasp out 
a name, or the family diminutive thereof and the 
interrogatory continues. He soon knows all about that 
youngster's behaviour, and gets at the root of affairs ; 
evasions make him very angry, so that his rough grey 
beard quite bristles up with indignation, and only the 
entire truth will satisfy his seasonable curiosity. Knecht 
Euprecht is not so hard upon the children, though, 
when their confessions * are made, as might have been 
anticipated from the severity of his tone and the im- 
placability of his bearing. In the very worst cases, 
perhaps, he administers a couple of taps, pro formd, with 
the rod; but mostly he develops a highly opportune 
forgivingness, and even displays a propensity to refer, 
in a promising sort of way, to the huge sack he carries 
on his shoulder. At last, he gives one surpassing rattle 
to his chain, and, holding his hearers with his glittering 
eye, exclaims, " See> young ones : outside stands the 
Christ-child, under the window. That dear child, loving 
and humble, waits to hear my report about you ; he 

VOL. II. I 



114 KNECHT BUPRECHT. 

wisi.es to make you all happy, even those who are not 
so good as the others ; for he loves yon all. But you 
must not see him. I am going to the window to make my 
report. Ton must all shut your eyes fast, upon honour 
(auf Ehre\ although the lights will be out ; and keep 
your eyes shut till you hear me say, ' Das Christkind ist 
weg/ then open them as wide as you can." Out go the 
lights, and the children (that is, the real good children, 
you know) shut their eyes fast. Perhaps the one or two 
older, sceptical little duffers, peep a little, more's the 
pity ; but they do not see any the more for that. 
Presently it seems an awfully long time to the loyal 
children, who would not wag an eyelid for the world 
the Losung is heard, and at the same moment a flash and 
a glitter pervade the darkness, for the door and the eyes 
open simultaneously, and what is this pyramid of light 
rolling into the room ; Enecht Euprecht has altogether 
vanished ; the Christkind has been seen by no one, not 
even for a second ; but here is the concrete, the dazzling, 
the many-hued, richly-laden, glorious result of their 
combined Vorspiel or Prologos; it is the Christbaum, 
the fruitfullest of trees, that is wheeled in on the round 
table that generally stands near the great china stove in 
the corner, and whose ordinary prosaic function is to 
carry Miitterchen's knitting-basket and Vatcrchen's 
tobacco-jar. Long live Knecht Euprecht, der treue 
Diener seines Herrn^ as his homely old predicate signifies 
him to be. This household visitation of his lends a 
pretty and thoughtful grace to the Beseheerung, or be- 
gifting of the children, which is as settled an institution 
in Germany as, say, compulsory military service. No 



SANTA GLAUS. 115 

Hausvater so poor, no Hausfrau so thrifty or careworn, 
as to omit the Bescheerung of the little ones, be it but 
with a twopenny tree, illuminated with pfennig tapers 
and hearing groschen fruit. And for those children who 
have no parents haply 5 no homes public benevolence 
provides a Bescheerung, Let us be joyful for that same ! 
Knecht Euprecht is by no means the only typical 
embodiment of a generous idea that haunts the large 
hours of Christmas Eve, and the very small ones of 
Christmas morning. Who, I would ask, is this vener- 
able and ruddy ecclesiastic (of the Descalzados order) 
with a fleecy beard and an umber eye beaming with 
liberality? He hath no. sack; but the ample folds of 
his monkish frock are susceptible of containing many 
fine things passionately longed for by childish hearts. For 
a- holy man he hath odd tastes and somewhat eccentric 
habits ; as, for instance, that of coining down chimneys to 
pay visits, and of hiding away the most valuable objects 
in old shoes. This is St. Nicholas, if you please, who 
stows away articles of price in stockings, when those 
stockings are duly hung up in prominent places. That 
preternaturally shining chimney-sweep, who is by the 
way a seasonable benefactor too, must be a connection 
of the kindly saint perhaps a very distant one ; else 
why should St. Nicholas have taken to coming down 
chimneys, and the chimney-sweep be so fond of making 
presents on this particular anniversary ? Depend upon 
it, they are "sib," as the Scotch have it. Of another 
dreadful personage, who crops up very much indeed 
hereabouts on Christmas Eve, the less we say the 
better. Perhaps those horns and that swishing tail fur- 

i2 



116 . CHEISTMAS TRADITIONS. 

nish a wholesome warning contrast to the utter bene- 
volence of Saint Nicholas and Santa Clans, and hint, to 
the chimney-sweeper's advantage, that more than mere 
blackness is required to typify the d . . . . ! Let us 
not inquire too closely into this matter. But who is 
this, faintly ringing a phantom bell in the passage, and 
tapping with soft fingers (how unlike Knecht Ruprecht's 
hammering !) at the door ? The Sandman is come ; so 
good night all, and a Merry Christmas ! 

At no time of the year is the curious contrast between 
the positivism and romanticism of German character so 
conspicuously manifest as at Christmastide. Scarcely 
any other European of the present day is so radically 
rationalistic as the average Teuton. The practical turn 
of his intellect and the methodical materialism culti- 
vated in him by his educational training, incline him to 
the consideration of all religions claiming a Divine 
origin as more or less ingenious and meritorious systems 
of ethics, humanly invented, and therefore legitimate 
subjects for human analysis and criticism. The purely 
religious significance of the Nativity anniversary is for- 
lorn of attraction to the German intellect. Its chief 
charm lies in its miraculousness, which, however, must be 
believed in to be appreciated; and in faith, save in 
things demonstrable, the modern German is necessarily 
deficient, his reasoning faculties having been persis- 
tently developed, from his early boyhood, at the expense 
and to the repression of his sentimental instincts. But 
the " Sage," or legend of Christmas Day, appeals irre- 
sistibly to his imagination, and its infant hero, the 
Christkind, enjoys a larger share of his sympathies 



CHEISTMAS TRADITIONS. 1 11 

than Santa Glaus, Knecht Bupreeht, the Hampelmann, 
or any other of the supernatural types, half fairy, half 
magician, whose traditional connection with Christmas- 
tide he tolerantly, and even cheerfully, recognises. These 
latter creatures of fancy and folk-lore provoke no protest 
from the cultured German, be he ever so sceptical or 
incredulous with respect to the immortality of the soul 
or a future state of punishment and reward ; for, as they 
make no pretence to be the outcome of revelation, his 
toleration of their seasonable influences involves no 
breach of intellectual consistency on his part. Were 
they in any way incident to a story which accident had 
developed into a dogma, their popularity in the Father- 
land would not have endured till now. It has, how- 
ever, survived the cold condemnation of pure materialism, 
because of their entire freedom from creed associations. 
Even Santa Glaus more correctly, Saint Nicholas is a 
person of no essential importance in the Christian mytho- 
logy. One may be a good Catholic, Greek Orthodoxian, 
Lutheran, Calvinist, or Dissenter, without giving a 
thought to this holy personage, save at Christmas time, 
when he serves as a plausible pretext for timely present- 
giving to little children. He was not an apostle ; as a 
martyr he achieved no particular distinction ; indeed, 
doubts have been cast upon the historical evidences of 
his very existence. Such being his ecclesiastical status, 
he is by no means objectionable to the German mind, 
which, if it classifies him at all, ranks him in the same 
category with Rumpelstiltkin, Rubezahl, and the Piper 
of Hamelin. How he originally came to be associated 
with long stockings and small shoes, in which recep- 



118 CHRISTMAS TRADITIONS. 

tacles lie is supposed to deposit his Christmas benefac- 
tions, or why he has been especially selected from amongst 
the innumerable saints in the Eoman calendar to reward 
infantile virtue at this particular season of the year by 
secret and nocturnal methods, involving the simultaneous 
descent of millions of chimneys on his part, are enigmas 
the solution of which I must leave to the learned in Ger- 
man Christmas-lore. Such, no matter why or wherefore, 
are the functions with which he is credited by juvenile 
Germany, at least up to a time of life at which many 
pleasant and harmless illusions are dispelled by the most 
utilitarian and prosaic of modern educational systems. 
No figure is more familiar to tiny Hans and Lottchen 
than that of the munificent Santa Glaus an elderly 
monk of ruddy complexion, with very round black eyes, 
inquisitive rather than forbidding ; a profuse lamb's- 
wool beard, with eyebrows to match ; brown robes and 
cowl, sandal-shoon, and a knotted cord for a girdle. In 
this presentment he is purchasable for sums ranging 
between fourpence and ten shillings, according to size, 
and elaboration of costume detail. Not infrequently 
the good saint's body is hollow, separable into two sec- 
tions, and susceptible of utilisation as a hiding-place for 
sugar-plums. His capacity in this respect being noto- 
rious in juvenile circles, his entrance into a German 
household is generally signalised by his prompt sub- 
jection to irreverent and barbarous outrage. The inves- 
tigating instinct of infancy suggests that he should be 
torn asunder without an instant's delay, in order " to 
see what is inside him." The annals of Bulgarian 
atrocity may be searched in vain for a more truculent 



GERMAN CHRISTMAS LOVE. 119 

deed than the rending in twain of St. Nicholas by one 
fell wrench. It is a consolation, however, to reflect 
that, so soon as he has undergone disembowelment, his 
seemingly mortal wounds can be healed with a single 
turn of the wrist, and that he suffers a hundred martyr- 
doms, if need be, at the suggestion of childish caprice 
without a visible shudder. 

As for Knecht Euprecht and the Hampelmann, they 
are altogether imaginary beings, forlorn of any claim to 
even so slight and loose a connection with the eccle- 
siastical history or the Church Calendar as that popularly 
allotted to Santa Glaus. Knecht Euprecht is the offspring 
of a simple popular superstition a humble and homely 
impersonation of Divine omniscience and perfect justice. 
As his predicate denotes, he is supposed to bl the lowly 
servant of the Christkind, by Him deputed to watch the 
actions and diagnose the impulses of children throughout 
the year. On Christmas Eve, during the dusky hour that 
precedes the discovery of the blazing, gift-laden Tree 
to the topmost branch of which a waxen image of the 
Christkind itself is suspended, Knecht Euprecht, as 
already stated, makes his annual visit to the youngsters 
committed to his surveillance. He is very old, but lusty 
and vigorous ; his beard is long and grey, his bright, 
restless eyes overshadowed by huge bushy eyebrows, 
his cheeks and brow deeply wrinkled, his expression 
severe, his voice harsh, his utterance abrupt and brief. 
He is clad in a flowing russet-coloured robe, with a hood 
of the same hue, and carries a rugged staff, with which he 
announces his approach by tapping thrice on the door or 
window of the room in which the children are assembled, 



120 CHRISTMAS-EYE RITES. 

apprehensively "awaiting his advent, their consciences all 
awake to countless petty derelictions of the past twelve- 
month. On his back, swung over his left shoulder, he 
bears a large sack, containing rewards for good little boys 
and girls, but also a formidable rod for the fustigation 
of infant malefactors. As soon as the three taps have 
sounded on the casement-pane a dreadful silence reigns 
throughout the room (dimljr lighted by a single slender 
waxen taper) for some thirty seconds ; at the expiration 
of which interval, fraught with harrowing retrospect to 
the guilty and tremulous expectation to the virtuous, 
the door flies open with a crash, as though smitten by a 
fierce gust of wind, and Knecht Euprecht appears on its 
threshold. He casts a searching glance around him. 
The children cower under his eye and huddle together. 
That is, indeed, a thrilling moment ! Then he steps 
solemnly forward, and makes his award to each in suc- 
cession, succinctly rehearsing the deserts, evil and good, 
of his youthful charges, whose amazement at the accu- 
racy of his information almost deprives them of breath 
wherewith to answer the short, sharp questions with 
which he intersperses his too pointed remarks. "What 
impresses them deeply is the intimacy with their private 
lives implied by the circumstance that he invariably 
addresses them by the diminutive or pet names to which 
they are accustomed to answer in their family circle. 
How shall Priedrich or Elizabeth keep up even the 
timidest scepticism with respect to the supernatural 
powers of a mysterious stranger who calls them over 
the coals for filched preserves or lessons unsaid by the 
familiar appellations of Fritzchen or Lieschen ? Oddly 



CHRISTMAS-EVE RITES. 121 

enough, the presence of Knecht Euprecht in the room 
selected for his reception is always coincident with, the 
absence therefrom of some stalwart male member of the 
household some Onkel Zarl or Schwager Wilhelm, 
whom urgent private business calls away a few minutes 
before the fearsome Knecht's visit becomes due. Did it 
occur to the perplexed little ones, upon so thrilling an 
occasion, to put this and that together, they might find 
it not so very difficult to account for Euprecht's extra- 
ordinary familiarity with their personal characteristics 
and transactions. But happily for them, children under 
seven and for such as these does the ChristMnd's 
rugged deputy make apparition in thousands of German 
dwellings on the Weihnachts-abend are still delight- 
fully innocent of the inductive process of reasoning, 
even in a land of early intellectual culture. Long 
may they remain so. Upon the tender foundation of 
their sweet credulity stands, as yet firmly, the whole 
edifice of Knecht Euprecht's significance and authority. 
Of the Hampelmann it may be said with truth, that 
he is at once an uncertain and an unsteady character. 
He may be a stately knight, or a dashing hussar, or a 
highly coloured imp, with features all out of drawing 
and unnaturally subordinate to a predominant expression 
haply, a hideous scowl or a ludicrous grin. But he 
must oscillate, because of the wire to which his nether 
part is riveted, and to which he owes the chronic rest- 
lessness that is his leading speciality. A Hampelmann 
who should not incessantly waggle would be a standing 
reproach to his order. Only when temporarily invalided 
through rough usage at juvenile hands is anything like 



122 A CHRISTMAS DEMON". 

stability excusable in this queer Christinas creature. Of 
the Hampelmann's story I know absolutely nothing; 
nor have I been able to ascertain, by searching inquiry, 
how he contrived to attain his present position as a 
member of the extra-natural company indispensably 
accessorial to German Christmas celebrations. That 
position, however, is unquestionable. But for the in- 
trinsic shakiness of its occupant, I should also define it 
as firm. 

A distinguished " super." in the company above 
alluded to is an eminent namesake of St. Nicholas, whom 
I wish to mention with all the respect due to his exalted 
rank and extensive mundane influence, but whose inti- 
mate association at Christmastide with the celestial 
almoner and provost, Glaus and Euprecht, and even 
with the harmless though unstable Hampelmann, does 
strike an admirer of the " eternal unities " as somewhat 
anachronistic. I refer to the Author of All Evil, whose 
dread effigy stands cheek by jowl with that of his saintly 
synonym upon the toyshop shelf or counter, and, I am 
bound to say, is no whit less in demand amongst the 
youthful celebrants of Christmas rites than the image of 
their midnight benefactors. This apparent anomaly may 
perhaps be explained by the circumstance that the Foul 
Fiend's body is also liable, under judicious treatment, 
to a solution of continuity resulting in the discovery of 
bonbons. If I may say so without irreverence, there is a 
certain family likeness between Holy Nick and Old 
Nick. Their features are not strikingly dissimilar, 
differing rather in the colour of their accessories than in 
shape, outline, or expression. It is conceivable that an 



A CHRISTMAS DEMON. 123 

artist in Christmas figures, by dexterous manipulation of 
their respective costumes and hirsute honours, might 
convert the most benevolent-looking St. Nicholas that 
ever glided down a nursery chimney into a Beelzebub 
of surpassingly malignant aspect, and vice versa. The 
same materials are employed to impart superhuman 
amiability to the countenance of the saint and de- 
moniacal ferocity to that of the devil ; only, whereas the 
former's face is " made up " with white lamb's wool and 
pink paint, his Satanic Majesty's lineaments are rendered 
terrible by a bold treatment in black wool and dark red 
pigments, picked out with burnt umber. He is also, on 
the whole, a thought shinier than Santa Glaus, and con- 
veys the impression of being used to a tropical climate, 
whilst St. Nicholas is as obviously indigenous to northern 
soil as our own Father Christmas himself. By the way, 
the last-named eidolon is exclusively English-bred, and 
has not, as yet, migrated to any Continental realms. 
There is no such person as " Vater Weihnacht" in 
Germany, u Pere Noel " is unknown to Frenchmen, and 
Italian imaginativeness has not yet grasped the notion 
of a " Padre Natale." To England alone, amongst 
Christian countries, belongs that grand virile impersona- 
tion of the Wintry Genius, patron of good cheer, whose 
attributes are charity, loving-kindness, sociability, and 
mirthfulness. 

Two striking specialities of Christmastide in Germany 
are the amazing demand for fir-saplings throughout the 
Fatherland, and the no less extraordinary trade in cheap 
toys, edibles, and articles of apparel carried on in the 
open-air markets. Over two millions of Christmas-trees 



124 CHRISTMAS TREES. 

are annually required in Prussia for home consumption, 
besides the vast numbers exported to foreign parts. 
Northern Germany chiefly derives its supply of Weih- 
nachtsbaume from the Harz and Silesia. Trees of from 
twelve to fifteen feet in height are no uncommon sight 
in the lofty saloons of wealthy Germans; and the 
" building of the Christmas tree,' 5 as the decoration of 
that evergreen is technically described in the Fatherland, 
frequently furnishes the elder members of a numerous 
family with occupation for the better part of a week be- 
fore the Yigil of the Nativity. The Emperor's tree 
touches the ceiling of the Blue Drawing Boom, an apart- 
ment of noble proportions, and bears fruit of many thou- 
sand pounds' value ; for no member of his huge house- 
hold, from the Lord High Chamberlain to the humblest 
" helper" in the royal stables, is unforgotten by the 
august " builders of the tree." It is no exaggeration to 
say that the tree, its preparation, its rites, and the gifts 
suspended from its branches or tastefully arranged 
around its stem on fair white damask cloths, constitute 
the German Christmas. The pleasures of the table are 
altogether subordinate to the delights of the tree ; indeed, 
the Germans, though mighty eaters, do not make a prac- 
tice of celebrating Christmas by extra-copious feasting, 
nor do they associate any especial dish with this par- 
ticular anniversary, as Englishmen do. But they bestow 
infinite forethought and pains upon utilising the tree as 
a vehicle for the conveyance of things beautiful and use- 
ful to those they hold dear, as well as to their dependents 
and servants. Heads of households make it their 
business, long before the Christmas season sets in, to 



CHRISTMAS PRESENTS. 125 

discover the exact wishes and wants of every person 
whom they consider entitled to participate in their 
" Weihnachts-Bescheerung ; " and much subtle diplo- 
macy is displayed in the conduct of such inquiries, the 
dual object being kept steadily in view of conferring the 
maximum of gratification upon the donee, and yet 
ensuring that the pleasure imparted shall also be a sur- 
prise. The secret aspirations of children and domestics 
are wormed out of them by j udicious leading questions, 
at moments when nothing is farther from their thoughts 
than the providential tree,, which, however, in due time, 
yields fulfilment to their fondest desires. Towards the 
end of October, as the morning-marketings are waxing 
chilly, Gretchen the cook, in some household conference 
with her mistress, has haply let fall a few words of casual 
lamentation anent the slenderness of her savings, which 
preclude her from purchasing a thick shawl or wadded 
bodice to keep out the cold during the approaching win- 
ter. Two months later, admitted to the precincts wherein 
the illuminated tree is set up, what is her astonish- 
ment and joy to find, on a table covered with " Be- 
scheerungs-Gegenstande," a large white parcel, neatly 
tied up with pink or blue ribbon and bearing her name 
in characters " large, bold, and handsome," the contents 
of which prove to be the very garment she has hitherto 
longed for in vain. Hard by, Gustav lights upon the 
object of his hopes, a miniature Guard-Cuirassier's equip- 
ment, and perfect bliss awaits Aennchen in the shape of 
a ventriloquial doll with practicable eyelids and a mag- 
nificent trousseau. It is needless to say that these 
children have triumphantly passed through the ordeal of 



126 CHRISTMAS MARKETS. 

Knecht Bupreeht's moral revision. Hence are they be- 
gifted with purely pleasure-giving objects. Had they 
incurred the Knecht's displeasure, their presents would 
have been useful, instead of recreative or decorative. It 
is but a mitigated rapture that Is derived from the 
acquisition of new velvet knickerbockers or furred boots. 
What children, and eke grown-up people, chiefly delight 
in Is the superfluous, not the necessary. In accurately 
apportioning reward to different degrees of merit, the 
German Christmas-tree is at once a promoter of whole- 
some ambition and a denouncer of neglected opportuni- 
ties. It impersonates distributive justice, and German 
children unconsciously pluck many an intelligible moral 
lesson from its boughs. 

The Christmas markets are held in the principal 
squares and platze, or open spaces, of all German towns. 
Their average duration is three weeks (from the 15th 
December to Twelfth Day), but in some cities they are 
tolerated by the municipal authorities throughout the 
whole of the Christmas month. In Berlin, the greatest 
of these al-fresco fairs is established on the vast Schloss- 
platz, under the very windows of the State apartments. 
A small town of wooden huts, pierced by five or six 
main thoroughfares and dozens of narrow alleys, rises as 
though by magic from the surface of that stony wilder- 
ness, between sunset and sunrise of the 14th, unless that 
date should happen to fall on a Sunday, in which case 
the building operations are postponed for four-and- 
twenty hours. On the succeeding evening the market, 
brilliantly lighted up by petroleum lamps, is opened, 
many august personages honouring it with a brief visit ; 



GERMAN GINGERBREAD. 127 

and from that moment to midday of Christmas Eve -that 
is to say, between eight in the morning and ten P.M. 
it is incessantly thronged "by all classes of the Berlin 
community. The "Weihnachts-Markte are glutted with 
astonishing bargains. In the matter of penny toys they 
defy European competition. Gingerbread is one of 
their staples. The German variety of this comestible, 
to which I have already referred, rejoices in the 
name of Pfefferkuchen (Anglice, pepper-cake), and is 
a trifle less heavy than lead. It is also "hot i' the 
month/' and extraordinarily filling at the price. A 
penn'orth is a full dose for a robust adult, and more 
dyspepsia can be got out of that modicum than a similar 
quantity of any other known edible will yield. It is the 
correct thing to present your friends with highly ornate 
blocks of this maleficent compound, which they are sup- 
posed to devour in your honour. If they entertain a 
particularly warm regard for you, they, too, will send 
you handsome slabs of decorative pepper-cake so that, 
should you happen to be a social favourite, you may 
count upon receiving a hundredweight or two of a sub- 
stance that, considered as a token of amity, is just the 
sort of food upon which Alexander Borgia, had he been 
acquainted with its virtues,, would have entertained his 
wealthy relatives after having persuaded them to make 
their testamentary dispositions in his favour. In com- 
pliance with time-honoured custom, affianced German 
youths forward kilogrammes of Pfefferkuchen to the 
objects of their affections on Christmas Eve, it being well 
understood by both parties to this transaction that the 
gift is purely complimentary, involving no alimentary 



128 GERMAN GINGERBREAD. 

obligations whatsoever. I liave never been able to dis- 
cover what becomes of all the Pfefferkuchen that is pur- 
chased during the Christmas week, and bandied about, so 
to speak, from house to house, after the thrifty and 
practical German manner. A passes on his superfluous 
Pfefferkuchen to B, B to C, and so on all through the 
alphabet. But what does Z. do with his deadly accu- 
mulations ? It may be that the final function of Pfeffer- 
kuchen is a,n agricultural one. I can conceive its utili- 
sation as top-dressing on very poor land, requiring a 
vehement chemical stimulus to promote fertility. Thus, 
possibly, what is death to the man may be life to the 
early spring cabbage. It is customary in Berlin to mould 
or, should I say to cast? effigies of the Emperor, 
the Crown Prince, and Bismarck in Pfefferkuchen, the 
features, uniform buttons, and war decorations being 
done in coloured sugar-plums, by* which method of 
artistic treatment some truly remarkable effects are 
achieved. The contemplation of the venerable William's 
counterfeit presentment executed in this dire material can 
scarcely fail to suggest the reflection, a long way "after" 
Hamlet, that " Imperial Caesar, turned to pepper-cake, 
may fatten fields and drive the potato-beetle away ! " 

The visible contrast between winter and summer is 
much more strongly marked in North Germany than it 
is in England ; and I can quite easily imagine that two 
persons equally sane, observant, and conscientious, might 
respectively, with the utmost truthfulness, describe that 
district of the Mark Brandenburg which includes the 
royal residences of Berlin, Potsdam, and Charlottenburg 
as a terrestrial hell or as an earthly paradise one 



"WINTER IN THE MABK. 129 

having visited it during the colder, the other during the 
warmer months. In truth, its aspect from November 
to April is desolate and ghastly in the extreme. The 
excessive severity of the cold annihilates all verdure, 
and leaves not a. symptom of life on the face of Mother 
Earth ; the woods are stricken grey and stark, as though 
they had suffered petrifaction; the ground is as ada- 
mant to the foot ; the waters cease to flow ; a death-tan 
seems to have been pronounced against the lower organ- 
isations, as though Nature had made up her mind to 
suspend her reproductive energies for a while in the 
hard-fisted old Marquisate. In England, growing things 
that are green may be seen sub Jove frigido in the 
toughest of winter-tideseven in London, whose parks 
show a dulled but unmistakable emerald tint, be the 
mercury ever so eagerly bent upon getting out of the 
thermometer through the bottom of the ball. Not so in 
the marrow-province of Prussia, where winter smites the 
land with a spell that plunges it into a cold and death- 
like trance. "Walking along the streets of Berlin while 
the ante-Lent season is at its gayest, you are sure to 
come across, in every " Querstrasse" however fashion- 
able or the reverse what appears to be a lifeless wooden 
stump, probably obstructing the footway, and looking as 
forlorn as an old ship's hulk wallowing in the mud of a 
river at low water. In one of those new quarters where 
the best society of the German capital is huddled to- 
gether in flats, and hard by a church which is so ludi- 
crously ugly that you cannot be as angry with it as you 
assuredly would be were it only half as hideous as it is, 
there is a street through which royalty itself frequently 
VOL. n. K 



130 STREET VEGETATION. 

passes the Empress is a regular patroness of the 
church and which, is the outlet of a whole fashionable 
parish to the Thiergarten. One of these huge morsels of 
what is in winter apparently dead wood although in 
summer a splendid tree has been left standing exactly 
in the middle of the street in question, where the latter 
merges into the Beast Garden; so that anybody not 
intimately acquainted with the place, driving into or out 
of this street on a dark night, runs the risk of smashing 
his horses, his carriage, and himself against about the 
very last thing one would expect to encounter in the 
centre of the roadway. To regulate your driving into 
the Matthaeikirchstrasse by the venerable axiom " In 
media tutissinius ibis" would be to rush upon destruction 
that way compound fracture lies ! 

Forgive the digression. You should see them in 
June these rugged and weird-looking stumps, stuck 
about the side streets, and the market-places, and 
the courtyards of houses where the laws of the 
land are broken with a regularity that does honour 
to the inhabitants' appreciation of the watchfulness 
and efficiency of the police force and all sorts of odd 
corners and nooks, otherwise glory-holes of dirt and 
rubbish: you should see them during "the leafy 
month," clad in the most luxurious and brilliant green 
liveries ! Just as gay and bright do the cities as well 
as the plains of the Mark look in June, as they appear 
desolate and grim in January. Trees dot the streets 
with delightful irregularity. Save in the Linden, the 
Bellevue, and one or two other set promenades, there 
has been no plan observed, no order followed, in the 



ASPECTS OF THE THIBEGARTEX. 131 

planting of these hearty and hardy old Dryads. Steer 
love of the green leaf and its rural associations has 
evidently prompted some house-owner here and there to 
insert a slip of some favourite tree amongst the kidney 
stones fronting Ms house, without notifying his inten- 
tion to the authorities. The sapling once grown to a 
noticeable size> should the police object to its presence, 
he who planted it would fight for its existence if need 
be, or implore that it might be spared, with all the 
passion developed for "Picciola" in the breast of the 
prisoner whose adventures we have all read. As tena- 
cious of his indefinite as of his codified rights, such a 
resolute Berliner would generally gain his point even 
from the police; "the tree was there, it was in front of 
Ms house, and nobody should deprive him. of it, as it had 
grown 3 although he had nothing to do with putting it 
there ; " so there is many a stout, honest tree flourishing 
exceedingly in what would otherwise be absolutely a 
stony wilderness, and the whole aspect of the town is 
thereby brightened up to an extraordinary extent, or to an 
extent that, at least, seems extraordinary to any foreigner 
walking through its streets in summer-time and recall- 
ing their appearance during the month of January, 
The TMergarten and its environs undergo a still more 
astonishing transformation. The physiognomy of that 
huge wood about Christmas-tide is so appallingly lugu- 
brious, that I can compare it to nothing but a Dor 
sketch in the illustrations to the "Wandering Jew" 
the one,- I tMnk, that terminates the series. As an 
example of its effect upon the spirits, I may mention 
that one December I escorted an English lady, just 



132 FLOWEBY BEELIN. 

arrived in Berlin from London, on a drive through the 
chief allees ; and that fiye minutes after she bad entered 
its gloomy precincts she burst into tears, and utterly 
refused to be comforted. But in June the Thiergarten 
is one of the loveliest and most romantic resorts in 
Europe ; and, were it not for the atrocity of the stenches 
with which it is infected, would be one of the most 
delightful. Its glades have not been rolled and gra- 
velled into comfortable formality ; it is yet more than 
half- wild, and altogether enchanting; and the villa- 
gardens that flank the forest's southern side are, many 
of them, masterpieces of horticultural art. 

The Berlinese are unquestionably great at gardening, 
and have also a natural bias in favour of flowers. An 
American Minister observed to me one day, apropos of 
the latter fact, that their inclination was doubtless the 
result of an instinct providentially bestowed upon them in 
view of the perils they run from mephitic exhalations, 
vegetable matter being an eager absorbent of such gases 
as are dangerous to human health. This may or may 
not be the case ; but it is very certain that horticulture 
is at a premium in Berlin, and that flower-pots and 
window-gardens belong to the domestic institutions of 
the German capital. What the Berlinese have done to 
render theatre-going not only possible but agreeable 
during the burning summer months deserves honourable 
mention. Their minor houses, all situated in suburbs 
far distant from the fashionable centre of Berlin, are 
with scarcely any exceptions constructed in such a 
manner that their lobbies communicate directly by broad 
staircases with large and prettily laid out gardens, in 



THEATBB GARDENS. 133 

which fountains play, concerts are held before and after 
the dramatic performances, and correctly-attired waiters 
circulate amongst rustic tables with kaleidoscopic ices, 
beer the cool, foaming, non-intoxicating ! with fruits, 
lutterlrodchen, or frozen champagne and Strasburg pie, 
if your means permit you to indulge in those luxuries. 
Every door in the auditorium, so to speak, opens into 
the fresh air ; the gas is kept at a minimum, save that 
supplying the footlights; and the performances are 
broken by at least three intervals of a quarter of an hour 
each, which you pass in a spacious pleasaunce, where 
you can smoke your cigarette or entr^acte without of- 
fending anybody's sensibilities, assuage your thirst, and 
take in a stock of coolness that will carry you on satis- 
factorily until the action of the piece is again interrupted. 
This is a truly sensible arrangement ; for it consults the 
comfort of the public, and ensures an ample attendance 
at performances that, if these theatres were hermetically 
closed like the royal houses, would not draw a hundred 
people a night. The managers thus do a good business 
throughout the summer, and so do the restaurants at- 
tached to their establishments. 

The practical Berlinese not only supplement their 
theatres with gardens, but all their other social institu- 
tions, except their churches though, as these latter are 
sparsely frequented at any time of the year, and scarcely 
at all in summer, it is easy to account for the apparent 
shortcoming. No sooner has the warm weather shown 
a lively disposition to set in, than gardens spring up all 
over the town, frequently in places with which your 
mind, accustomed to consider them from a wintry point 



134 EESTAUEANT GABDENS. 

of view, has never associated flowers or fountains, and 
experiences some difficulty in so doing. Say you turn 
into a familiar restaurant on the Eussian Embassy side 
of the Linden, or in the Eriedriehstrasse, or, in fact, 
anywhere about the Friedrichstadt, Where your hyber- 
nally educated eye is accustomed to look for a dismal 
flagged yard, pent in by high frowning walls, its only 
ornament perchance a ghastly pump, you perceive a sort 
of excerpt from fairyland, made up of bright glass, gay 
flowers, flashing, plashing, dazzling water, green shrubs, 
gas, and white tablecloths. The supper is no better 
than it was in winter- time the waiters are not one whit 
more polite or obliging but the place itself, like charity, 
covers a multitude of sins. 

One Sunday evening, about a decade ago, during my 
residence in Berlin, as I was vainly endeavouring to get 
warm by a small sepulchral stove, and as vainly racking 
my brain to discover in what particular respect a Berlin 
Sunday has the advantage over a London one in the 
matters of gaiety and recreation, my servant brought in 
the evening paper, laying it down on a chair by my side 
with the air of a triumphant philanthropist the sort of 
flourish that one would feel inclined to excuse in a 
Humane Societarian who had just saved a drowning man 
from the jaws of death. In so thorough-paced a Sabba- 
tarian country as Prussia, it often struck me as a decided 
anomaly that the Sunday papers, which are few (though 
the desolation of the day would provoke even Germans, 
the most moderate newspaper readers of Western Europe, 
to purchase six times the number actually published), 
should be issued in the evening instead of the morning. 



BERLIN NEWSPAPERS. 135 

The freskaess of tlie news they contain would not be 
lessened by twelve hours' earlier publication ; for that 
matter, they might be published on the Friday instead 
of the Sunday evening, without being up to the English 
press mark of novelty, although by such an arrangement 
their abonnes would get the intelligence contained in 
their columns some forty-eight hours earlier than under 
the present system. But their printing work should at 
least be executed on the secular Saturday night, for the 
sake of consistency ; whereas, as it is, compositors, press- 
men, &c., are compelled to sacrifice their Sunday morn- 
ings to get the papers in question out by the evening. 

That there is some excellent and convincing reason for 
this breach of a rule that puts Prussia and Great Britain 
upon a footing of equality, so far as Sunday dulness is 
concerned, I do not for a moment doubt. A long and 
intimate acquaintance with Northern Germany has con- 
vinced me that there is no eccentricity, inconvenience, or 
discomfort practised or suffered within these realms 
which cannot be proved by a Prussian of well-balanced 
national mind to be in reality the material application of 
principles that are founded on eternal laws of wisdom, 
justice, and fitness. It is this calm belief in their being 
always right that I admire so much in my many Prussian 
friends. They do not make a fuss about that fact, nor con- 
sider it worth their while to bellow their convictions into 
everybody's ears, like certain of their neighbours late 
and, I fear, still their enemies; but none the less do they 
entertain the profound and thorough conviction that they 
"know better" than other people, and that their insti- 
tutions, social habits, and opinions are alone worthy of 



136 PBUSSIANISM PBOPEH 

being adopted by any reasonable human being. For 
those who differ from them they experience the sort of 
contemptuous pity that the captain of a first-class iron- 
clad might be expected to feel for the tattooed and 
feathered " bosses" of a lot of South Sea Island canoes 
paddling round the walls of his floating fortress. "We 
English used to be like this ; but we have waxed some- 
what diffident of late years, the evidence adduced by all 
sorts of faits accomplis having tended to shake our faith 
in that article of our unwritten national creed which 
taught our overwhelming superiority to the rest of the 
human race. The Germans have picked up the mantle 
of self-appreciation shall I say self-conceit ? that fell 
from our shoulders, just as they began to feel themselves 
big enough to wear it; and although it is a cumbersome 
garment, unbecoming, and old-fashioned as Time himself, 
they never ,put it off for an instant. Everything that is 
Prussian is right; and, unless you seem to accept 
this dictum as a great Truth with a capital T, you may 
expect to be looked upon with small favour by the 
natives of Borussian soil. There are, however, certain 
things coming under the respective heads of a institu- 
tions, social habits, &c. 5 7? as above, which, to those whom 
Nature has inconsiderately cast in a non-Prussian mould, 
appear to be at odds with common sense and convenience. 
Mind, I only say appear, and appearances are deceitful : 
very likely the things in question are in every way desir- 
able too good, in fact, to be understanded of a foreign 
and therefore limited intellect. 

Eor an example or two of what I mean, I will turn to 
the daily press of Berlin, and take up the typical Sun- 



AN ENIGMATICAL JOURNAL. 137 

day evening paper, a cursory glance at "which suggested 
the above remarks, whose bearing, to borrow the words 
of a certain immortal master-mariner, lies in the appli- 
cation thereof. The first astonishing feature of this 
Sunday paper is that it is intituled Berlin Monday Paper. 
The Prussians are mighty men; but they cannot annihi- 
late time at least I think not. Sunday will not become 
Monday, even if they declare it to be so. However, 
" "What's in a name ? " it may be said. If a man instruct 
the members of his household to the effect that, when he 
asks for his hymn-book they are to bring him a glass of 
sherry, and they obey his injunction, the words " hymn- 
book" in that particular family stand for " glass of 
sherry," and nobody is anything the worse. Society at 
large continues to interpret the words in the old black 
leather-bound sense. It is "thusly" with my Sunday 
paper's title. But looking down the third column of 
the front page I come upon two paragraphs, in imme- 
diate juxtaposition to one another, which contain state- 
ments relating to the day of the week that are somewhat 
difficult to reconcile with complete soundness of mind on 
the part of the sub-editor. Paragraph one under the 
heading " Berlin" states that "the Emperor will open 
the Landtag in the "White Hall of the Eoyal Castle to- 
morrow (Monday\ at one o'clock." Paragraph two, 
under the same heading, announces that "the Emperor, 
who has dined alone for several days, dined, yesterday 
(Sunday) with the Crown Prince." Both these para- 
graphs appear on the same day, however, and are written 
by the same person, each being preceded by a star for 
writers in the German press seldom sign their articles. 



138 GERMAN PRESS PECULIARITIES. 

content to assert their individuality by a prefatory mark, 
generally chosen from the Zodiac or the Greek alphabet. 
But on what day could they have been written ? "What 
is that day of which the to-morrow is Monday and the 
yesterday Sunday ? It must be an abstract day, a high- 
in-ether-oscillating and by-fleshy-conventional-rules-not- 
to-be-regulated day, of which mere commonplace Eng- 
lishmen can form no definite conception. But the Ber- 
liner Montag Zeitung is only one among many in its 
encroachments upon ancient tradition and its removal 
of venerated landmarks. All the " dailies " of the capital, 
save two or three, are published to-night, so to speak, 
and dated to-morrow. Even the Kreuz Zeitung, that most 
loyal, respectable, and Conservative of papers (I omit the 
prefix " news," as being irrelevant to the description of 
a Prussian journal), comes out regularly under false 
colours so far as its date is concerned to what end I am 
at a loss to understand. In a race with Edax Eerum, the 
best of us is sure to be beaten j antedate as you will, it 
is a good deal more than six to four on the old party with 
the hourglass. 

But the oddest thing of all is that though the Berlin 
papers pretend to outstrip Time denominationally, they 
lag behind time not to mention their English and 
American contemporaries in every other respect. Take 
an instance : I used to receive in Berlin a copy of The 
Daily Telegraph thirty-six hours after its publication in 
London ; at the same time was delivered to me a local 
paper twelve hours before its publication that is, accept- 
ing its date as correct. Turning to the telegraphic 
columns of both journals, I found in each exactly the 



GERMAN PRESS PECULIARITIES* 139 

same despatches Agency despatches, of course from 
Paris, Yienna, Kome, Constantinople, St. Petersburg, 
and so forth; with this difference, however, to the 
advantage of the English journal, that the latter 
daily received special messages from its foreign corres- 
pondents containing intelligence of interest, whilst the 
Berlin sheet was content to reprint those messages trans- 
mitted hither through the ordinary postal channel. I 
need perhaps scarcely say that you may look in vain 
through the columns of a Berlin u daily " for an original 
correspondence such as may be read in any leading 
English newspaper. The Augslurger Allgemeine, the 
KolniscJie, and three or four of the principal Yiennese 
journals, maintain a staff of u Auslandische Bedakteu- 
ren : " but in the capital of German intelligence people 
do not care to be posted up au jour le jour in the affairs of 
foreign nations, so the newspaper proprietors very natu- 
rally limit their staff of correspondents extra-Borussian 
to a personnel of two, Herr von Paste and Professor 
Scissors. These gentlemen's communications are lacking 
in freshness and originality ; but what does that matter, 
seeing that this public does not in the least want to know 
what Mr. So-and-So thinks about the course of events in 
London or Paris. All it requires is facts, recounted in 
the shortest and driest terms ; nor is it over-curious 
even about those, supposing them to have their origin 
outside the frontier of the German Empire. 

Let us now turn to the subject of local news, upon 
which one would think considering the indifference of 
the Berlinese to foreign intelligence the newspaper pro- 
prietors of the Kesidenz would concentrate all their force 



140 THE FREMDENBIATT. 

and energy. There are two or three journals, or rather 
crepuscularians, published in Berlin, which profess to 
inform their readers accurately, from evening to evening 
always under the next day's date of all the arrivals 
from, abroad and from the provinces in the several hotels 
of the capital. A whole page of one of these sheets 
the Fremdenblatt is covered nightly with the names, 
titles, and social positions of the persons whom business, 
pleasure, or accident have conducted to the Northern 
Athens ; but the announcements in question are far from 
being served up hot and hot, as I cannot but think they 
should be, to attain the maximum of practical utility. 
One night, some years ago, I espied in the Fremden- 
llatfs list of arrivals the name of an old Austrian com- 
rade whom I had not seen for an age. Next morning I 
hurried off to the Eoyal, hoping to catch him before 
breakfast and carry him off to Siller's for a a Gabelfriih- 
stiick." In reply to my inquiry, the bland porter of that 
most exclusive hostelry the Mivart's of Northern Ger- 
many informed me that " it did him right suffering 
the Herr Obrist was away -journeyed; he had only this 
time two days in the house stayed, and was already since 
before yesterday departed." So! The Fremdenllatt, 
therefore, had announced his arrival two days after he 
left the town, although he actually stopped forty-eight 
hours in the " Koyal." There is a flaccidity about this 
" institution " that reminds one of French journalism 
minus the incorrectness of the latter, of course, which is 
unrivalled all over the wide world. 

Yet one more anomaly connected with the daily press 
of Berlin, and I have done. The price of any newspaper 



LOCAL REPORTING. 141 

whatever is threepence. The size of the said newspaper 
is about one-third or one-half of that of any London 
morning sheet. Each of its pages contains three short 
columns (one or two journals have four) of printed 
matter. Earely do the telegrams occupy more than the 
half of one of these columns. The proportion of adver- 
tisements to what stands for news is as three to one in 
some papers as six to one in others. Lately the lead- 
ing organs all raised their advertisement rates, coolly 
informing the public that "they had had to choose 
between that measure and raising the price of their 
issue ; and, all things considered, they preferred to adopt 
the former method of increasing their profits." Eaise 
the price of their issue ! Why I never took up a Berlin 
paper without wondering how, in a land of thrift, any- 
body could be found to pay threepence for it. Compar- 
ing it with any of its English contemporaries, one is at a 
loss to account for its ability to maintain the least spark 
of commercial vitality. If a ceremony of any importance 
takes place in any part of Great Britain, if a member of 
the House addresses his constituents in Glasgow, or 
Dublin, or any other provincial city however remote, the 
proceedings or the speeches, as the case may be, are 
telegraphed up to the London offices, and duly appear 
next morning as a matter of course. Well, the inaugu- 
ration of the Schiller statue was a great national cere- 
monial, the dignity and moment of which were signalised 
by the presence of the Emperor, the Heir- Apparent to 
the German throne, and a host of august and dis- 
tinguished personages. It took place at 10.30 A..M. on 
the 10th of November, and the first detailed notice of it 



142 PRUSSIAN VIEW OF THE PRESS. 

was published at 7 A.M. on the 12th of November In the 
National Zeitung. The toleration of such reporting delays 
astonishes one, especially in so eminently practical a 
people as the Prussians. 

But, as I hinted above, there is a reason for every- 
thing that is done or left undone in North Germany ; 
and, talking with a' Prussian acquaintance one day upon 
the subject of local press shortcomings, I soon found 
that they were to be explained quite as logically as a 
good many other little difficulties that are apt to puzzle a 
foreigner until he has been carefully inoculated with 
Prussianism. Here is what my inoculator for the time 
being said, or nearly so. " We North Germans, you see, 
do not care much more for newspaper reading than we do 
for what you Englishmen call society. I am a Berliner, 
of many friends, and I know a dozen houses into which 
a newspaper never penetrates, while I do not know one 
at which I would venture to call of an evening, without 
being invited, and ask for a cup of tea. We consider 
newspaper-reading in a man a sign of poverty of intellect. 
In our leisure hours we like to talk, play cards, or go to 
the theatre ; if we want to read, we read books from 
which we can learn something useful. "What the better 
am I for knowing to-day, instead of to-morrow, next 
week, or never for that matter, that the Pope is thinking 
about leaving Borne, or that the Prince of Wales is ill of 
a fever ? If my friends see me reading the papers at the 
club, four out of five will ask me why I am wasting my 
time over such rubbish. Our newspaper proprietors 
would be great fools to spend their money in special tele- 
grams which would interest nobody, and long foreign 



THE TYPICAL PRUSSIAN. 143 

correspondence which nobody would read. They would 
not sell a dozen extra copies if they competed ever so 
successfully with your English journals. And so, not 
being great fools, but shrewd men of business, deter- 
mined to get the largest possible rate of interest upon 
their capital, they supply their readers with just what 
their readers who, be it remembered, are few in num- 
ber require, and nothing more. All we want to hear 
about is that which affects us Germans ; let other people 
look to their own affairs, we shall attend to ours, never 
fear. For what Mr. Gladstone or M. de Giers may say 
or do, so long as they do not interfere with German 
interests, we simply do not care one rap." 

As a matter of fact, the average Prussian is a far better 
educated man than the Englishman, and is taught a 
variety of acquirements, scientific and artistic, that are 
not even glanced at by the British system of imparting 
knowledge. He delights greatly in intellectual gym- 
nastics, and finds refreshment after his bread-earning 
labours in accumulating information, tracing back events 
to causes, chopping logic, and especially in submitting 
every topic that comes under his ken to the process of 
analysis. It matters not upon what subject he may 
be called upon to exercise his intelligence politics, 
woman, business, physiology, sentiment, cricket, history, 
or physics he is sure to set about picking it to pieces, 
classifying the fragments into subdivisions, these latter 
into nuances^ and so on, until there is nothing left to 
account for. All is fish that comes to Ms analytical net. 
He is fall of " cultur" frequently erudite, always de- 
sirous to increase his stock of knowledge. On the other 



144 THE TYPICAL PRUSSIAN. 

hand, the smallest thing will amuse him. He is the 
most easily pleased fellow in the world. That intense, 
painful sensitiveness upon questions of art that prompts 
the Italian to venomous criticism or passionate protest is 
wanting in him. He is not scathingly satirical like a 
Frenchman, nor angularly cynical like an Englishman. 
Put him down behind a mug of beer in a garden, play to 
him Strauss and Offenbach, however badly ; let off three 
squibs and a rocket within easy distance of his table, so 
that he may not be obliged to move in order to contem- 
plate that modest pyrotechnical display ; talk to him the 
feeblest of scandal, interspersed with the most pointless 
of anecdote, and he shall pass a perfectly happy, harmless, 
hilarious evening. His intellectual standard is really so 
high that he ought to be far above admiration of all 
pageants, pomps, and vanities whatever. Just show him 
a procession or a foreign monarch, a review or an illumin- 
ation not even a Neapolitan will go in with more gusto 
for any spectacle emblematic of power or commemorative 
of privilege and caste than will your cultivated, thought- 
ful, logical, objective German. Horse -racing is not 
altogether in his line ; there is too much trouble about 
it, too many intervals, and too long, between event and 
event ; nothing in it appeals to his special faculties of 
enjoyment. The odds are that an average Teuton will 
know more about its history, its purpose, the effect it has 
achieved in improving the breed of horses, its esthe- 
tics and tendencies, than an average Englishman, al- 
though "the Turf" is a British creation; but he would 
rather discuss all these with you, giving and receiving 
data and deductions^ over a series of a bocks," than he 



SLEDGING IN BERLIN. 145 

would go to see Ills theories put in practice and his 
studies illustrated. As for betting, that is a science he 
has not touched and long may his acquaintance with it 
be deferred ! His speculations are of another order ; he 
cannot make a hook to waste his money he is ashamed. 
In short, he is far too honest and right-minded to swindle 
his fellow-creatures, and too prudent to be taken in by 
them ; so that the slaves of the Ring have given him up 
in despair, and, as far as racing is concerned, he is left 
in peace to enjoy the negative unemotional sort of 
pleasure to be derived from contemplating a number of 
horses, about which he knows nothing, scampering about 
a green field with parti-coloured men on their backs for 
the purpose of winning something that is scarcely worth 
the trouble. That is how the majority of Germans 
interpret racing; and, what is more, that is pretty nearly 
what racing is in. Germany. 

During each successive winter generally during the 
Christmas week or early in January a fictitious liveli- 
ness that melts away under the breath of the first 
southerly wind is imparted to the most melancholy of 
cities by "the tintinnabulation of the bells, bells, bells," 
which incessantly ring, day and night, in every quarter 
of the German capital. An eruption of bells breaks out 
all over harness of every description ; the droshky 
horses, attached to clumsy sledges very much resembling 
old-fashioned country pond-punts, are attended, as they 
hobble along, by joyful sounds that seem to mock the 
utter dolefulness of their aspect and gait. An adjutant's 
horse is a low-spirited beast, as a rule ; but, compared 
with a Berlin droshky horse, he is a very Joe MiLer 

VOL, II. L 



146 THE DROSHKY HORSE. 

among animals. There is a deep and abiding mournful- 
ness about the latter qiiadruped that seldom fails to impart 
itself to him who hires a hack conveyance in Berlin with 
the purpose of saving time. An Irish friend, driving 
down the Linden with me one day, in one of the ram- 
shackle old wind-traps that are called by a name which, 
on the banks of the K"eva, is synonymous with a Mazeppa- 
like sort of locomotion, observed, as we jolted along, 
"Barring we stopped altogether, I don't see how we 
could go any slower than this." This may sound like a 
bull, but it aptly described, I assure you, the rate of our 
progress. The droshky horse has attained the minimum 
of speed consistent with physical movement, and is, 
moreover, the most sorrowful-looking creature in the 
universe. To deck him with bells is indeed a mockery. 
His every stumble is announced by a merry chime ; he 
tinkles as he halts, and peals when he falls down. Those 
who derive their notions of sledging from picture galleries 
or illustrated books of travel, and desire to be disillusion- 
ised, should go to Berlin while the snow is on the ground. 
I never yet saw a picture or engraving that had for its 
subject a sleighing party, in which fiery horses were not 
represented as dragging an elegant vehicle on skates 
through space at a terrific gallop, although tightly 
reined in by an aristocratic person enveloped in furs. 
Their wild career may be regulated but cannot be hin- 
dered by steel and leather. Whoop ! halloo ! they bound, 
they rush, they seem to fly, flecking their glossy coats 
with foam as white as the snow which their flashing 
hoofs cast up behind them in heavy flakes. Thus Art, 
editing Commonplace gracefully and agreeably : and such 



THE BEELiy SLEDGE. 147 

is such ever will be my ideal of sleighing. A sledge 
ought to be beautiful in form, light of construction, and 
rather swan-like than otherwise ; it ought to be whirled 
along over the smooth surface of the snow at the rate of 
twenty miles an hour or so, by three impetuous steeds 
harnessed abreast, guided by a stalwart driver, bearded 
like the pard, clad in a long fur-edged caftan, hip boots, 
a scarlet sash, and a black velvet Geneva bonnet bound 
with gold cord. It is not so, however, as a rule ; indeed, 
very much not so. The real thing, as seen in the Thier- 
garten and Linden Avenue after a heavy snowfall, differs 
from the ideal thing in every possible respect, so far as 
its accessories are concerned. Both are sledges; but 
that is the only characteristic they have in common. 

Let me try to limn in words a typical Berlin sledge. 
A square punt-like box, the bottom of which is about 
six inches from the snow, is fastened on two stout 
wooden bars curved like inverted carriage-shafts ; inside, 
two leather-covered seats, and a rough horsecloth for the 
knees of the "fore." On the box, which is level with 
the said seats, a gloomy-visaged being sits, in blue 
camlet, with an indefinite number of futile capes, and a 
tall, glazed, chimney-pot hat bearing on its front a huge 
brass number at once staring and ghastly. Before him 
is a weird and wizened quadruped, of shattered consti- 
tution, whose legs are mere figures of speech, slack in 
the loins, heavy-headed, and apparently broken-hearted 
generally a cast cavalry troop-horse, out of which a 
conscientious and thrifty Administration has taken all 
the a go" worth mention before selling it for three or 
four pounds to a purveyor of locomotion. Yery old, 

L2 



148 " FIERY UNTAMED STEEDS !" 

feeble, and down upon his luck is that unhappy beast ; 
true, he is never overdriven, for his Jehu invariably 
allows him to moon along at his leisure ; but even the 
wambling stagger which he conscientiously performs 
when called upon for an effort appears to cost him 
painful exertion. Droshky horses grunt, and well they 
may, poor wretches ! They had a pretty rough time of 
it when they were "in the service : " they began troop 
work when they were three-year-olds, before their spines 
were thoroughly stiffened j they slaved away for seven or 
eight years, with as few holidays as the soldiers who 
successively bestrode them ; and, when age and infirmity 
came upon them, unfitting them for regimental duty, 
instead of being pensioned like two-legged warriors, or 
mercifully converted into ruddy and toothsome sausage, 
they were transferred to new owners, who made them 
work from twelve to sixteen hours out of the twenty- 
four, and gave them just enough of food to keep body 
and soul together. It may fairly be doubted whether a 
Prussian horse of plebeian extraction ever enjoys a full 
"blow-out" of oats from the day of his birth to that of 
Ms death ; unless, indeed, he has been fortunate enough 
to take part in a campaign in an enemy's country. A 
droshky suits his appearance equm and equipage are 
worthy of each other ; but in a sledge, associated as is 
that vehicle with ideas of velocity, space-devouring, and 
earth-spurning, he is a dismal anomaly. 



OHAPTEE V. 

SPANISH CHARACTERISTICS. A MADRID TELEGRAPH-OFFICE. 

SHERRY TOWN. LIFE IN ANDALUSIA. A FRUIT 

MARKET, 

BETWEEN Roumania and Spain there are many striking 
resemblances. One of these is, curiously enough, the 
national passion for turning night into day. Separated 
from one another by .the main bulk of a whole continent, 
practically ignorant of one another's existence, following 
different creeds, and subject to different physical and 
climatic conditions, the descendants of the Latin race 
maintain certain customs in common one of which is 
what the Americans happily term "loafing" about street 
corners and in hot coffee-rooms during those hours which 
the German and Anglo-Saxon races spend between the 
sheets. To refresh yourself for the labours of the ensuing 
day by a fair share of sleep o'nights is, it may plausibly 
be averred, unnecessary in countries to which real hard 
work is unknown; and the majority of the well-dressed 
Spanish population (I purposely avoid the term " middle 
classes," as the middle class, properly so called, does not 
exist in Spain, or in Moldo-Wallachia) have neither the 
facilities nor the desire to gain their bread, save by the 
sweat of somebody else's brow. However this may be 



150 IBERIAN LOAFERS. 

(and I fear it is too true), there can be no disputing the 
fact that, between the hours of twelve and four in the 
morning, the Spaniards and Koumans of cities are as 
lively and as busy (doing nothing) as possible, thronging 
the cafes to suffocation, and talking with a fire and illus- 
trativeness of gesticulation that would lead you to believe 
them to be the most earnest, restless, passionate people 
on the face of the earth. You shall, however, meet the 
same men, whose volubility and apparent energy partly 
deafened, partly electrified you in the small hours, about 
two of the afternoon, sauntering languidly after their 
unsavoury breakfast of bull-beef, oily beans, and cigarette, 
down the Alcala or Calle Geronimo, on their road to the 
Prado, the club, or the houses of their friends 7 wives, 
looking as sallow, dull, and nerveless as if they were 
suffering from jaundice or jungle fever. They have not 
been up an hour they have swallowed down their un- 
wholesome food with the rapidity of men eating for a 
wager. I don't think they have washed themselves 
much; and they are going to pass their day in utter 
idleness, so as to pick themselves up for the heavy yet 
congenial fatigues of the evening and night, which they 
will get through partly in the theatre, and very con- 
siderably indeed in the coffee-house. Outside these esta- 
blishments are swarms of beggars, some curled up close 
to the wall, on the cold, hard pavement ; others, loud- 
tongued and importunate for alms, dogging you up and 
down, round and round the Plazas, until, in sheer weari- 
ness of their whine and disgust at their proximity, you 
give them a few cuartos to be rid of them. After night- 
fall is their best time, for then there is no police to inter- 



THE MADRID CREEP. 151 

fere with them ; and people, emerging from a warm cafe 
and a warmer political discussion, are apt to be suscep- 
tible of the contrast between the misery of these unfor- 
tunates and their own comparatively comfortable state. 
I do not know whether the indolence and idleness of 
those who give be not more discouraging to the hopes 
of Spain than the abject degradation of those who 
receive. 

I incline to believe that nothing impresses an English- 
man, visiting the Spanish capital for the first time, more 
unfavourably than the Madrid creep, about as melan- 
choly a gait as that of a three-legged dog. It is not 
exactly a creep neither, but rather a loose-kneed shuffle, 
which may be said to express the various evils from 
which the Madrilefios suffer bad, scanty food, want of 
muscular development, over-poisoning by bad tobacco 
consumed excessively, indigestion, laziness, and a climate 
which, like Jerr old's historical baby, is " better conceived 
than described." This shuffle, I should say, exclusively 
characterises the men; as for the women, they walk 
well, look strong and healthy, and- are, in every visible 
respect, far finer animals than their lords and masters. 
In the first place, they do not smoke. It is, I believe, 
vaguely believed in England I know it is in Germany 
that Spanish women are as keen on their cigarettes as 
Spanish men. This, however, is not so. Cuban Creoles, 
and women of Spanish extraction in South America, 
blow, or rather inhale, their 'baccy as freely as may be ; 
but the home-bred daughter of Iberia is as abstinent in 
the matter of smoke as she is ravenous in that of garlic. 
Now, little boys of six and upwards may be seen any 



152 JUVENILE S1IOKEHS. 

day in hundreds smoking about the streets of any 
Spanish town; the exception is an infant that has not 
got a suave stuck in the corner of his mouth. These 
children all consume their own smoke, too ; that is, they 
draw every atom of it into their lungs, which, accordingly, 
get curiously pickled in a few years only the pickling 
does not act as a preservative, far from it. Upon lungs 
made ready for disease, if not absolutely damaged in 
this manner, the norte comes in due time with his 
barbed breath nothing has been done meanwhile to 
strengthen the lad's constitution by wholesome food, 
plentiful ablutions, and active exercise ; and it is not to 
be wondered at, on the whole, that the young men who 
survive the tremendous ordeal to which their powers of 
vitality have thus been subjected are pitiable and de- 
graded specimens of humanity. Every adult Madrilefio 
with whom I was acquainted during my residence on the 
banks of the Manzanares was afflicted: by a chronic 
hacking cough, the result of unlimited cigarettes and of 
the atmosphere, aptly described in the well-known local 
proverb as " so subtle." 

The Spaniards are even more rabid emplecmaniacs 
than the Italians or the Russians ; nor can it be denied 
that their evil fortune and the conditions in which they 
have been born and bred, as well as their own riatures 2 
have made them what they are. As a nation, they have 
been brought up in the way they should not go, and 
must undergo a long apprenticeship to independence ere 
they can rid themselves of the slavish manner of thought 
that has been persistently taught them. Their moral 
character has sustained a subtle taint of the agency. 



SPANISH CHARACTERISTICS. 153 

protracted over many years, of an infamous system. A 
Castilian prides himself upon being, and intensely be- 
lieves himself to be, muy liouibre de Men; but "his point 
cPhonncur which, though it undoubtedly exists, is so 
difficult of detection by a foreigner does not prevent 
him from intriguing, cringing, and bribing for place, or 
from pinning implicit faith in the dogma that the public 
interest must, and ought, to be entirely subservient to 
his own. Power, with its concomitant profit, is what he 
yearns for before all else ; and its unscrupulous exercise 
does not shock him ; for he has been, not only throughout 
his own life, but in the traditions of his history, accus- 
tomed to see it perverted to bad uses by the passions or 
weaknesses of those to whom it has been confided. When 
Ferdinand VII. was king, he indulged from time to time 
in acts of extravagant atrocity ; and whenever he perpe- 
trated some violation of private rights or public decency 
of a worse than ordinary character, people exclaimed 
with vehement approval, "Carajo! es mucho Key!" 
(Hang it ! he is a king, and no mistake !) Their sympa- 
thies were all with him; for not a man amongst them,- 
had he been king, but would have availed himself of the 
royal privilege to be fearlessly vicious. Narvaez was not 
generally hated in Spain, although he massacred his 
political opponents so remorsely that when, on Ms death- 
bed, he was exhorted by the attendant priest to invoke 
the forgiveness of his enemies, he grimly muttered, 
" There would be little use in my doing that, for there 
i$ not one alive to pardon me* I have had them all 
shot." His ferocious manliness won him the fear of the 
Spaniards, and, consequently, their respect. They are a 



154 TELEGRAPHING IN MADRID. 

people of strange contradictions ; and one can only hope 
that their worser characteristics may be modified by the 
new influences which have of late years been brought to 
bear upon them. 

Perhaps it may interest my readers to be made 
acquainted with the manner in which business is con- 
ducted in the central telegraphic office at Madrid an 
establishment considered by Spaniards to have been 
brought up to a high standard of efficiency. I will sup- 
pose that it is necessary for me to forward a piece of news 
by wire to London in the evening, and will ask my 
readers to accompany me to the head office, and be pre- 
sent during the whole operation. The Palacio de la 
Gobernacion is a large, dirty, vulgar-looking building, 
occupying the best part of one whole side of the Puerta 
del Sol. Let us cross the great Plaza, thronged with 
loungers of both sexes, though the Guadarramas are 
capped with snow, and the killing wind that cuts through 
broadcloth and fur as though they were gauze and silver 
paper, is chilling the city with its icy breath. But the 
Madrilenos must lounge, be the weather what it will ; 
and so, despite the piercing cold, they linger about in 
groups, puffing the ever-renewed cigarette, and closely 
wrapped up in cloaks of the genuine bandit pattern. If, 
in passing along Madrid streets, when the norte has set 
in, you allow yourself to be influenced in your impres- 
sions of the persons you meet by traditions of the Adelphi 
or transpontine schools, you will assuredly believe that the 
male inhabitants of this city all walk about in an attitude 
implying perfect readiness to u plant the assassin blow" 
between the shoulders of the first person they may happen 



THE SPANISH MANIA, 155 

to take a dislike to ; for the right arm is generally worn 
crossed over the left breast, as if grasping a cuchillo or 
Albacete snickersnee ; whereas the attitude in question 
is, in reality, only assumed for the purpose of keeping 
the cloak, the right extremity of which is cast over the 
left shoulder, in its place. Some of these cloaks are 
gorgeously lined with violet, puce, or purple velvet, and 
one of the arts of wearing the manta is to throw it round 
you so that a small portion of this rich lining may be. 
shown, not ostentatiously but naturally; the greater 
number, however, are simply lined with scarlet cloth, 
and those worn by the poorer classes with a sort of frieze 
whilst the beggars are draped in a striped material, 
much like an English horsecloth, but neither so warm 
nor so handsome. Poor wretches ! it is often, with a 
desperately ragged pair of breeches, their only covering 
from the bitter blast. Hurrying past these unfortunates, 
with a muttered " Pardon me, gentlemen, for the love of 
Grod," the only phrase that will silence a Spanish mendi- 
cant's importunity, we enter tlie Palacio by a high 
gloomy portal, totally unlighted, and flanked by a couple 
of sentry boxes, before which two exiguous " liners" are 
blowing their fingers and shivering. Up a few broad 
stone steps, and we come to a huge, dismal, dark court- 
yard, round which a sort of pillared cloister runs. In 
the middle of this court stands a dim object, something 
like an Egyptian god or a stunted obelisk, seen from a 
distance. This is a kiosque, however, of which and its 
raison d^etre more hereafter. Stumbling at every step 
over holes in the paving or corners of slabs that stick up 
on end to overthrow us, we grope round the stone 



156 A PATRIOT'S PUCHEBO. 

arcade, until we come to the main guard of the Milicia 
Ciudadana, between which and a Wallachian or Bulga- 
rian gipsy encampment there is no difference that I can 
perceive. These wild, picturesque-looking fellows have 
made their fire of sticks on the stone floor of the court- 
yard, and are cooking some pottage with a redoubtable 
smell in an obese iron pot hanging from a three-legged 
" convenience/' in form resembling a dock shears. One 
swarthy, Moorish-looking youth, with a thick, straight, 
black moustache, and bare, brown, sinewy arms and legs, 
is leaning on Ms rifle, the barrel and bayonet of which 
gleam faintly under the dull red light of the wood 
embers ; he is majestically enveloped in a flowing manta^ 
the gaudy colours of which are softened down by the 
half-darkness ; his comrades are crouched round the fire, 
too cold and hungry to talk much, but patiently waiting 
with eager faces for the moment when the compoundcr 
of the puchero shall pronounce it to be sufficiently 
stewed. Let us ask the caballero in the horsecloth, 
whom I shrewdly suspect of being the cordon bleu of the 
party, our way to the telegraph office. He salutes us 
courteously, and explains that it is situate at the end of 
this corridor ; then turn to the right and go straight on 
" it cannot be missed." "Whilst he is informing us, 
some irrepressible patriot lifts the lid of the cauldron, 
and a gush of garlic rushes forth that is too much for 
our equanimity away, away, in the pursuit of our 
quest, with the horrible perfume following us, like an 
avenger, hard at heel. At last we reach the bourne of 
our desires a long, low, frowsy room, furnished with a 
grimy table and half a dozen low four-logged stools : 



A TELEOKAM TO LONDON. 157 

behind a glass screen arc four clerks and a boy, with 
whom you must communicate, if you can get them to 
listen to you, through tiny semicircular trap-doors, so 
small that you must double up your telegram form 
before you can pass it in to the officials, We write our 
messages, and project them skilfully through one of the 
holes. After a minute or two's calm reflection, relieved 
by the confection of a fresh cigarette, one of the clerks 
approaches and picks up the forms. We ask him what 
is the charge for two simple messages to London. He 
returns no answer, but scans the messages suspiciously 
and repeatedly, as if he smelt treason in every letter. 
Again we inquire the price of transmission. He looks 
up at us with an impressive glance, "fixes" us for a few 
seconds, and then turns away towards his three colleagues 
and the boy, with whom he holds a whispered conclave 
that outlasts our patience. Presently we repeat our 
question angrily; upon which everybody proceeds to 
take down books of different shapes and sizes, and refer 
back to find out the approximate tariff, as we fancy. It 
takes four men and a strong boy, all servants of the 
company, and employed at its chief office in the capital 
of Spain, six minutes by Shrewsbury clock to discover, 
in the archives of the establishment, 'the cost of trans- 
mitting a telegraphic message to London. At last one 
clerk advances, and informs you, in a hesitating manner, 
that the fee is " ciento y viente reales" (about one pound 
five), which you produce, of course, and tender, in the 
hope of terminating the transaction. No such luck ; the 
clerk, with a stately gesture, waves back the money, and 
tells you that you must purchase stamps for the amount, 



158 THE STAMP NUISANCE. 

and affix them to the form, " Stamps ! But where ? 
Mother of God, where? Will yon sell them to me? 57 
By this time your patience has quite expired, and your 
brain is beginning to whirl round in your head. " No, 
Senor, we cannot sell them ; that is not our province ; 
but you can buy them in the Mosque outside, in the 
middle of the court.' 3 This, then, is the use and mean- 
ing of that mysterious structure. We rush out, batter 
at a dull window of the kiosque, and succeed in waking 
up a man in a felt cap, who is quite overwhelmed at the 
magnitude of the order we give him, and cannot make 
up his mind, even after counting the desired stamps over 
and over about thirty times, that he is not losing heavily 
by their transfer to our hands. At last we get them, 
and return to the office, where we hand them to the 
clerk who has undertaken our business. He inspects 
them at his leisure, and presently observes, with a touch 
of sadness in his voice, u I deplore, Caballero, that I 
cannot take these." " But, Senor, in the name of the 
seven thousand imps that tortured Saint Anthony, why 
not? You told me to buy stamps for a hundred and 
twenty reals ; I have bought them ; I have paid for them ; 
here they are ; why, oh why, can you not accept them ? 
Give me my receipt and let me go, invoking choice 
benedictions on your very appreciable muy aprecialle 
head?" "Because, let your worship observe, there arc 
two telegrams, are there not? Well, the stamps offered by 
you, in the aggregate sufficient for both, are separately 
either more or less in amount than corresponds to the tax 
ordained ; they are not divisible by two. Your worship 
must exchange them for others of a more manageable 



TRAVELLER'S DISAPPOINTMENTS. 159 

character ! 3? Of course you liave to submit ; and, if you 
be a " special" newspaper correspondent, bring the 
matter at last to an end with the consoling reflection 
that, after all this pottering about, loss of time, and 
irritation, yonr telegram will probably reach London 
several hours after your morning edition has gone to 
press, and that your hope of anticipating your deadly foe 
Renter, by a few hours, is entirely frustrated. 

One of the many desillusionnements to which travellers 
are subjected in the course of their wanderings is, that, 
as soon as they arrive at a place hitherto known to them 
only by its association with something of surpassing 
excellence, edible, potable, or otherwise consumable, so 
soon do they discover that the article for the production 
of which the place in question is renowned is not to be 
found there at all, or is procurable only at an exorbitant 
price and of inferior quality. In some particular spots 
of such adventitious renown, the articles identified with 
their names are not even known by the inhabitants 
that is, as specialities by which they have gained honour 
and repute. That such things are the natives may, or 
may not, be aware ; but that their confection, or growth, 
has anything to do with the place from which they take 
their name does not seem to be a necessary consequence 
of their nomenclature. For instance, Parmesan cheese is 
known at Parma, but not one atom of it is made in that 
city. It is called Parmegiano, truly ; but, if my memory 
serve me right, Lodi, which is a good long way from 
Parma, produces it all, I have never drunk worse or 
dearer claret than at Bordeaux. The oil of Lucca is quite 
as unpalatable, chez elle, as the oil of the Bornagna, which 



160 TRAYELLEKS 5 DISAPPOINTMENTS. 

is saying a good deal. At Ostend the indigenous oysters 
are coarse, coppery, and cost threehalfpence a piece. You 
may trudge all through Toledo's painful, kidney-paved 
streets in a vain search for a blade of that ilk; and, 
curiously enough, the knives with which, by a stretch 
of generous romance on the part of the hotelier and his 
staff, you are expected to cut your food in the Fonda de 
Lino (which I fearlessly assert to be the worst place of 
entertainment in the world) are cast in one piece, handle 
haft, and blade, with just as much edge about the one 
as the other; so that, as the beef supplied to you, if you 
be unwary enough to call for that sort of meat, has all 
the appearance of having been hewed from between the 
horns of some prehistoric bull, you have as much chance 
of dividing your steak or filet into convenient sections 
with your Toledo blade as you would have of slaying a 
rhinoceros with a blunt pin. Turkish tobacco is at its very 
worst in Constantinople. I never saw a Strasbourg pie 
at Strasbourg. Brighton fish may be summed up in the 
words of the immortal Bailey : " Don't eat none of 
'em ; " and to come to the fact that suggested the fore- 
going list of similar anomalies, which might easily be 
swelled to formidable dimensions Jerez is about the 
last place in the world where the man who loves good 
sherry should call for that liquid in any hotel even in 
that one which has been christened after the generous 
wine dear to Englishmen. I thought that I had drunk 
of the deepest cup of humiliation in the way of sherry 
whilst I was a denizen of the Fonda de Londres in 
Seville, where the vintage bearing that name was a mira- 
culous mixture of fire and water ; but I find that I was 



SHERRY-TOWN. 161 

wrong. There is a yet more deadly draught to be pur- 
chased at the Fonda de Jerez In the town of that name. 
Moreover, one has the prond privilege of paying six 
shillings and a penny per bottle for it a price for which 
honest, cheering sherry may, I believe be drunk within 
the limits of a certain tight little island. Apropos of the 
Fonda de Londres, I cannot forbear mentioning a new 
reading of bitter beer, culled from the wine-card of that 
establishment. For ingenuity of perversion I think it 
deserves honourable mention. At the tail of the list, 
after a Cirswaser' J and "Miroquini 5 ' have suffered a 
Seville change from their proper titles, comes "Pall- 
Halle," a beverage somewhat difficult of recognition 
under its new denomination. 

But there is sherry in Jerez which, by the way, 
may be spelt " Xerez," or " Gerez " for that matter, for 
/ g and x are all pronounced alike before e and i in 
Spanish, and the Spaniards are not particular to a shade 
in orthography sherry that makes a man smack his lips, 
wink joyfully, and seriously revolve the pros and cons 
of taking up his permanent residence in a country that 
yields so divine a liquid. You may grate, you may 
poison this tongue as you will, but the taste of that 
sherry will stick to it still. Armed with credentials 
from kindly friends in Madrid and Seville much good 
sherry be their dole ! I presented myself one morning 
at the Palace of Don Pedro Domecq, in the Larga, and 
was straightway invited to inspect that gentleman's 
bodega, or wine-cellars, situate in the Plaza San Ilde- 
fonso. But, before I ask my readers to accompany me 
thither, let me attempt a description of an Andalusian 

VOL. II. M 



1G2 ANDAL17SIAN HOUSES. 

gentleman's house, unrivalled, I think, in many respects 
for comfort, convenience, aud elegance "by any class of 
mansions in Europe. It is built either of brick, faced 
with pale green or cream-coloured stucco, or of solid 
white stone, and its walls are of enormous thickness, so 
constructed with a view to keep out the tremendous 
summer heat which, in Southern Spain sometimes 
attains, during the months of July and August, 120 deg. 
in the shade, and keeps that figure up for weeks. It is 
flat-roofed, after the good old Oriental custom still 
followed in Genoa and some other Italian cities, where, 
as in Southern Spain, the roof is an evening resort, a 
lounge, a flirtation place, a spot of assignation, qiie sais- 
je ? Its lower windows are sternly barred, like those of 
Florentine palaces ; but the bars are wide enough apart 
to admit the passage of a soft hand, that is rapturously 
mumbled over in the small hours by a sallow-faced, 
dark-bearded gallant in a cloak, who has been prowling 
up and down the opposite side of the way for hours, in 
thrilling expectation of so sweet a reward for his patience. 
Much of the love-making is done at these windows, 
happily for youthful virtue defended with sufficient 
strength to withstand the extravagance of southern 
passions and the promptings of hot young blood. Vidi 
tantnm ! The outside "of the house is not showy may 
be, it stands in a narrow street, and numbers no more 
than two storeys ; but when you approach the double 
iron gates, often gilded, and nearly always of a delicate 
and fanciful pattern, and peep through them into the 
patio, you begin to comprehend that within there is that 
which no London, Yienna, or Paris mansions can show. 



ANDALUSIA!* HOUSES. 163 

The gates themselves hang in a deep-arched niche, 
adorned with Moorish devices in brilliant colours, some- 
times a honeycomb of gold like the Sala de los Ambaza- 
dores in the Seville Alcazar ; beyond them is a fairy 
picture of ferns, dwarf palms, banyans, and fountains, 
grouped on a pavement of black and white marble, and 
surrounded by a lofty, broad arcade of porphyry or jasper 
pillars. Beneath this arcade are ranged luxurious divans 
and sofas ; and on the walls hang numbers of pictures 
and engravings, that suffer nothing from their sojourn in 
the open air. Some of these patios are roofed in with 
glass ; the greater part, however, are covered by the 
bright blue sky alone ; and in the ardent heats of 
summer the family lives in the patio exclusively, exist- 
ence being impossible in the tipper portion of the house. 
Here they eat, drink, chat, have music, take their 
siestas, and receive visits until bedtime, when they 
retire to their mosquito nets on the ground floor, in 
rooms never used during the winter. Hound the patio 
are situate the servants' offices, the cool, dark-vaulted 
chambers in which hams, oil jars, fruit, and wine are 
kept the bath-rooms, attainable by a small winding 
staircase from the upper floors, without crossing or skirt- 
ing the patio the huge filters, and the deep black well, 
with which every house is provided as a precaution 
against drought. From one side of the umbrageous court 
a broad marble staircase leads to the floors above. Tro- 
pical plants, in dark red flower-plots, adorn the landings. 
On the first floor are the winter reception and dining- 
rooms, handsomely furnished in the English style, and 
forming one noWe suite of apartments, receiving abun- 

M 2 



1G4 JEREZ STREETS. 

dant light from the glass walls of the gallery that crowns 
the arcade of the patio. On the second floor are the 
winter bedrooms, linen stores, preserving rooms (the 
Spaniards are great at jams and conserves), the depots 
of lumber and odds and ends of all sorts. Above these 
is the flat, balconied roof, a burning, fiery furnace during 
eight months of the year, but a pleasant, airy, family 
rendezvous during the other four. Such is the house 
of a wealthy gentlemen in Seville, Jerez, Cadiz, and 
most southern towns such, with certain restrictions in 
respect of size, luxury, and decoration, are the houses of 
most well-to-do Andalusians. 

The walk from the Larga to San Ildefonso is, for more 
than one reason, a distressing' one. In the first place ? 
the sun raps out his rays with such uncompromising 
vigour over the glowing little town that locomotion, save 
during the evening, is a painful ordeal. In the second 
place, because the by-ways and crooked paths of Jerez, 
through an, infinity of which one must pass to reach M. 
Domecq/s bodega, are studded I dare not call it paved 
with millions of cruel, hard-hearted little stones, 
which appear to have been planted wrong side up for 
the express purpose of tormenting that class of poor 
humanity which wears corns, and of grafting those 
agonising callosities on those, the elect of nature, there- 
tofore not afflicted with them. Bruised feet, dislocated 
boots, and bad language are the results of a stroll 
through the side-streets of Jerez ; they beat Belgrade, 
and I can say no worse of them. At last, however, our 
haven is reached, and we pass through a lofty archway 
into the great sanctuary of sherry. M. Domecq is one 



DOMECQ'S BODEGA. 1G5 

of the largest growers and holders of tMs wine in Jerez ; 
one of his vineyards covers 500 acres (each acre valued 
at 400 sterling), and his principal lodega contains 
9,000 butts of wine fit for consumption. There is no 
cellarage in this depot ; the butts are stacked in immense 
lofty sheds paved with brick, so cool that coming 
suddenly into them from the hot outer air is like jump- 
ing out of an oven into an Ice-pail. More than a 
hundred men are employed upon the premises, every 
article connected with the preparation of the wine for 
shipment being manufactured within the walls of the 
establishment, even to the carpenters' tools used in the 
cooperage, and the esparto mats forming the walls of the 
store-sheds. The genus loci of these latter when I 
visited them was an Englishman, Mr. George Eenney, 
to whose kindness and courtesy I- am much indebted ; 
and under his guidance, accompanied by a stout Anda- 
lusian sommelier) exquisitely proud of his functions, I 
proceeded to inspect the sample-rooms, workshops, &c., 
and finally the huge wine stores of this mighty bodega. 
Presently the portly Andalusian detached from a hook 
a bunch of ancient keys, a delicate crystal gill, and a 
whalebone wand tipped with a tiny silver measure, and 
I was requested to taste a few of the curious and pre- 
cious wines (some worth a thousand pounds a butt ! ) 
concealed in a locked division of the lodega^ devoted to 
the more ancient and costly vintages. With a por- 
tentous clash of keys the portal of this precious Bacchic 
crypt was flung open, and three or four hundred vener- 
able casks stood disclosed to my view. Some of them 
were distinguished by the names of famous men y painted 



1G6 YENERABLE SHEKRIES. 

in large characters on their fair round bellies. I noticed 
" Napoleon," "The Duke of "Wellington," "Nelson," 
"George IV.," "Fox," "Pitt," and last, though not 
least renowned, " Buskin." The first butt into which 
the "whalebone wand was dipped for my instruction and 
profit was " Napoleon/ 5 somewhat of an anachronism, 
inasmuch as the wine it held was pressed from the grapo 
some sixty years before the First Consul was born. Its 
first birthday, I believe, took place in the autumn of 
1716, and it enjoyed in 1868 a grand and honourable 
old age. Still very strong, it had become so dry, in the 
course of a century and a half, that it was more like an 
astringent than a wine ; but what a colour, generous 
Bacchus ! and what a bouquet ! My next introduction 
was to George IV., and I am bound to say that his 
Majesty was very sweet and gracious. Through the 
medium of the sommelier he proffered me some of his 
own peculiar tap, a Pedro Ximenes, deep-tinted and ' 
luscious beyond compare, over whose chestnut-hued 
body some^ eighty years had passed, every round of 
months adding richness to its hue, Next I called upon 
"Nelson," a rare Amontillado, turned deep golden with 
age. The wine was baptised when the hero died. 
"Fox," "Pitt," and "Wellington," were all different 
varieties of Amontillado, from fifty to seventy years old 
"Buskin" a more modern, but transcendant vintage. 
After paying my respects to all these worthies, I accom- 
panied Mr, Eenney over the various departments of the 
lodega, my attention being called by him, in passing the 
cask-washing yard, to the Hercules of the place, a 
gigantic Andalusian, brown, hairy, and of rugged linea- 



JEREZ CLUBS. 107 

incuts, who at a pinch could raise a full butt of sherry 
from the ground to the third tier of casks ! The admir- 
able cleanliness and perfect order pervading every part 
of the establishment were delightful to contemplate, as 
well as the hearty and earnest manner in which every 
man was occupied with Ms work : such a contrast to 
the Spain I had left outside M. Domecq's gates, in which 
everybody seemed to be intent either upon " how not to 
do it," or upon "how to get somebody else to do it for 
him." After taking leave of my courteous entertainer 
and friendly guide, I visited the two clubs of Jerez 
one a magnificent building, containing salons worthy of 
Pall Mall, and a patio that a prince might envy ; the 
other, a comfortable, cosy institution, well stocked with 
English and French newspapers, billiard tables, and 
luxurious rocking chairs. In the plazas of Jerez grow 
giant palms, their feathery foliage gently stirred by soft 
breezes that hail from the Atlantic. The people are 
decently dressed and apparently well fed. There are 
fewer beggars than in any Spanish town with which I 
am acquainted- Foreign capital and foreign energy 
have done much for the town and its inhabitants. More 
than half the great merchants and shippers are English- 
men or Frenchmen. 

The route to Cadiz from Jerez is very uninteresting. 
As soon as you get clear of the wine district, which ex- 
tends in a radius of from five to six miles round the latter 
town, you plunge into a dreary district devoid of any 
inhabitants save rabbits and snipe, for it is nothing but 
alternate sandhills and swamp j and through this deso- 
late tract runs your road right up to the walls of Cadiz, 



168 CADIZ. 

a strongly fortified town, built on a narrow tongue of 
land projecting into the sea, and surrounded on three 
sides by salt water. On entering the town by the em- 
battled and guarded gate that faces the railway station, 
you are practically made acquainted with the fact that 
the Gaditanos are remarkable for possessing that parti- 
cular visual tendency commonly called " having an eye 
to the main chance." In Cadiz was initiated the Sep- 
tember revolution; Cadiz was the first Spanish town 
that " pronounced ; " Cadiz is asserted to be Eepublican 
to the core ; but in November, 1868, Cadiz had not fol- 
lowed the example of Madrid, Seville, and fifty other 
important cities, in doing away with the vexatious yet 
profitable gate dues which subject harmless travellers to 
so much loss of time and annoyance. Heaps of ruins 
where, but a few weeks previously, stood piles of ma- 
sonry, frowning arches, and vaulted chambers, in which 
every visitor to the capital of Andalusia was compelled 
to submit his belongings to a severe scrutiny, attested 
the sincerity of the Sevillanos in their adoption of sweep- 
ing reforms; but the approaches to Cadiz were still 
strenuously beset by the carabineros or Custom-house 
officers, and not a mouse was allowed to enter the town 
without having its portmanteau and hat-box opened and 
routed inside out, in search of articles subject to octroi. 
Altogether, the impressions conveyed to a stranger by 
his first hour's sojourn in Cadiz are far from agree- 
able. Arrived at the station, he looks in vain for a 
porter to take charge of his hand-bag, rugs, &c., and aid 
him in obtaining his heavier impedimenta. It takes him 
half an hour,, and costs him a good deal of money, to get 



A SPANISH CUSTOM-HirSE. 169 

his luggage delivered, and the men who carry it to the 
omnibus do not scruple to insist upon being paid two 
shillings apiece for conveying it a distance of five yards. 
The tariff, it appears, is a peseta, surely an excessive 
charge for so small a service, amply recompensed in Eng- 
land by a voluntary sixpence ; and base, therefore, is he 
considered who presumes to offer less than a scudo, or 
twice and a half the prescribed fee. At last your traps 
are comfortably lodged in the omnibus, and you console 
yourself for the mauvais quart tfheure you have just gone 
through by the thought that you will be driven straight 
to your hotel, there to enjoy the tub of coolness and the 
breakfast of succulence. You have not been jolted along 
more than a hundred yards, ere you are pulled up under 
a grim portcullis and ordered to alight, whilst your 
effects are torn from their resting-place and spirited 
away out of your sight. You say to yourself, gloomily, 
" Cosas de EspaSa," and hope that everything will turn 
up all right. Presently a very dirty man in a long blue 
coat and baggy red breeches beckons you from a low 
arched door, and demands your keys in anything but a 
pleasant tone of voice. You obey his signal, and enter 
a long, dark apartment, which, for squalor and absolute 
filthiness, I will back against a Moldavian chnsJma, the 
forecastle of a Greek merchant vessel, or the interior of 
a Eoman citizen's private dwelling. In one corner is a 
bed, eminently calculated to murder sleep ; in another, 
a greasy, sloppy table, with a stratum of dirt upon its 
surface as thick as an old penny piece. The floor is 
made of clay, superficially wavy, and covered with count- 
less abominations. The dim and uncertain light pervad- 



170 A SPANISH CUSTOM-HOUSE. 

ing this apartment the very sight of which would break 
the heart of a Dutch mevromv say, from Brock filters 
into it through a narrow grated window, scarcely more 
than a slit in the massive wall of the gate tower. You 
find your luggage cast down anyhow on the earthen 
floor, and an attenuated fowl frantically picking at the 
padlock of your dressing-case, which she evidently regards 
as some sort of enormous cereal, and, with the desperate 
obstinacy characterising her kind, is determined to de- 
vour, or perish in the attempt. You deliver up your 
keys to the dirty carabinero, and he, and more like him, 
turn to with a will to grope amongst your clothes, and 
unsettle every article belonging to you from its appointed 
place. No Eussians were ever rougher no Papal do- 
ganieri ever more careless or inconsiderate. You stand 
by, swallowing your disgust and endeavouring to sup- 
press your fury, whilst your clean shirts are being 
dragged from their stronghold at the bottom of your 
portmanteau. You see one tail of your dress-coat trail- 
ing in the indescribable horrors of the floor, your boots 
scattered recklessly about, the contents of your glove- 
box showered out amongst your papers, and even your 
sponge-bag untied and emptied, in the conviction that 
something contraband must be lurking within it. The 
whole search is transacted with a mixture of savage 
gusto and ingenuity in producing disorder and damage 
that is beyond measure irritating. It is just as though 
a couple of huge monkeys were rummaging your boxes 
for the love of the sheer mischief they could do. Nor 
does the appearance of the carabiHeros belio the illusion. 
"When the investigation is declared to be at an end, and, 



A SPANISH CUSTOM-HOUSE. 171 

rising from tlieir knees, the dirty ones betake themselves 
to the disorganisation of somebody else's property, leav- 
ing you to repack your disjecta membra as best you may, 
you look at the chaos before you, and feel like Marine 
amongst the ruins of Carthage, only a good deal angrier. 
Black thumbs have been planted in the bosoms of dress 
shirts and white waistcoats, a whole grimy hand has 
printed itself off upon a pair of light trousers hitherto 
spotless, immaculate white neckties haye been rolled up 
into a lump and stuffed into a corner with slippers and 
a clothes-brush. I thought I should never get rid of the 
fleas strewn amongst my garments by those foulest of 
carabineros. Neither brushing nor shaking could dis- 
lodge them from their places of vantage. I was doomed 
thenceforth to their company on my travels in Spain ! 
In the pleasing manner feebly described above for no 
words can paint the exasperation of the sufferer, or the 
ape-like insouciance of the operators was spent my first 
hour in Cadiz ; nor did my subsequent experiences at the 
Hotel de Cadiz deepen my admiration of the manners 
and customs obtaining amongst the Gaditanos. Let no 
one who is not prepared to rough it, in an enlarged sense 
of the expression, put up at the stately edifice that com- 
mands such a cheerful prospect of the Plaza de San An- 
tonio. There are no bells to the rooms ; the doors will 
not shut save by superhuman effort, and when shut defy 
the most passionate efforts to open them again ; the win- 
dows cannot be closed, so that you have to sleep in a 
fresh breeze ; the only stove or fireplace in the house is 
that at which are cooked the horrible messes supplied to 
you at meal times ; and there is not a newspaper, book, 



172 A COMIC BIVEB. 

pianoforte, billiard room, or any other means of lecroa- 
tion whatever within the precincts of the establishment. 
In traversing Castile the observant traveller's mind 
is likely to be distracted by the question., ever recurring 
and never solved not even by the exhaustive Ford 
whether that ancient kingdom was named after the soap 
which it resembles so exactly, or whether the soap, with 
which we were forcibly made familiar on the Saturday 
nights of childhood's sunny days, took its title from Cas- 
tile. Yery brown indeed is Castile about the brownest 
part of Europe I have had the pleasure of visiting. For 
a hundred miles round Madrid, which lies as nearly as 
possible in the very centre of Spain and of both Castiles, 
the country, if I may call it so, has an appearance at 
once bilious and mangy. Nothing seems to grow upon 
it, save here and there a casual, weak-constitution ed 
olive-tree ; it is utterly dried up, so that if you obsti- 
nately resolve to discover the rivers marked on the maps, 
you may perhaps, with much pains and labour, find out 
a pint or two of dirty water lurking amongst a few thou- 
sand tons of loose stones, but nothing more. A lively 
specimen of Spanish rivers, for instance, is the Manza- 
nares, upon whose banks the capital is built, and which 
the Madrilefios are obliged to water every year in the 
summer season, as otherwise it would suffocate them all 
with its dust. Fancy the citizens of a town being choked 
by the dust of their river ! "Were I to write thirty 
truthful chapters about Spain, I could tell my readers 
nothing more thoroughly Spanish than this fact. When 
a strong east wind gets up early in the morning, some- 
where about the end of July one of the worst of the 



DISMAL CASTILE. 173 

meses de los infiernos the people say to one another, 
" Now we shall have a dose of the Manzanares," and the 
municipality busies itself with the gathering together of 
water-carts wherewith to give that river a sound drench- 
ing, and avert, or at least mitigate, the threatened dust- 
storm. On the route towards Andalusia, as far as the 
northern side of the Sierra Morena, the view from both 
sides of the railway extends over a series of desolate 
undulations, as barren of population as they are of herb- 
age, and between Madrid and Castillejos, a decayed ham- 
let from which Prim took the name cf his marquisate, 
the whole face of the land is covered by loose stones. 
The district in question is not unlike part of the Karst, 
wanting, however, the bold outline and grim greyness 
of that phenomenal range. Nothing grows upon it save 
crows, and how those voracious birds manage to pick up 
a decent living from such a petrified desert is more than 
I can understand. There they are, however, in vast 
numbers, and I have too much respect for the intelligence 
of the crow to believe that he would frequent any place 
unless there were something highly satisfactory to be 
got out of it. Once I saw a party of peasants making 
believe to be engaged in agricultural pursuits not far 
from the line of rails. Four of them were piling up 
stones in a heap ; two more were trifling with a large 
sieve, which one was languidly filling from the heap of 
stones, whilst the other shook it, so that the little stones 
fell through and the big ones remained. Two bullocks, 
with a thing attached to their bodies that must have 
been meant for a plough, were " standing by/ 7 in Cap- 
tain Cuttle's sense of the phrase, talking to one another 



174 CASTILIAN" AGRICULTURE. 

confidentially, as idle bullocks will do I suppose in 
pnre Castilian. As the train crawled up towards this 
party, all connected with the operations in hand left off 
pretending to work, rolled and lit their cigarettes, and 
stood scowling at the emblem of progress precious slow 
progress, too ! as it puffed past them. Now this little 
Georgia episode puzzled me considerably, especially the 
plough; for you might as well have tried to plough the 
Strand or the Kelson Column as that tract of broken up 
rock ; and, after much reflection, I came to the conclu- 
sion that the efforts of the agriculturists in question 
must have been directed towards the achievement of one 
of two objects either they were systematically removing 
the stones with the purpose, or in the hope, of arriving 
ultimately at an earthy surface, or they were sifting the 
stones in the hope of obtaining, by trituration, a sufficient 
quantity of earth upon which eventually to cultivate 
something. Judging from the appearance of the spot 
they were employed upon, as well as from the manner of 
their labour, I should say that in a couple of hundred 
years or so they might have attained something like suc- 
cess in the realisation of either project. Meanwhile they 
were quite right and prudent, of course, to keep the 
plough and bullocks ready to hand, in order that they 
might not have the trouble of fetching them whenever 
there might be anything to plough. The last I saw of 
them was that they had struck staring, by common con- 
sent, and had squatted down in a circle round the large 
heap of stones, to smoke at their ease and talk about the 
train. An American gentleman sitting by me, who was 
quite broken-spirited with the country and the people, 



GARLIC. 175 

observed, "Why, sir, those tawny cusses may go on 
picking up and sifting those eternal stones right down 
to the kernel of this universal earth before they'll find a 
pinch of soil big enough to grow a head of garlic on, 
and then tliey zootft" I think he was right. But one 
must not be surprised at anything in Spain. 

Apropos of garlic, I crave pardon fora short digression. 
It has, I believe, never yet been decided whether garlic 
be the root of all evil, or merely a skid upon the wheel 
of civilisation. At any rate, it is the curse of Spain. I 
had deemed myself sufficiently familiar with garlic, 
through Italian and Provencal experiences, to pass an 
examination in the abominations derived from that plant 
with credit and honour ; but I was mistaken. Until I 
came to Spain I had really no idea whatever of garlic, 
its properties and abuses. To say that the Spanish 
nation is thoroughly impregnated with it is but to hint 
delicately at the extent of its dominion over that unhappy 
people, I remember a charming French friend of mine 
who used, now and again, to give himself a great treat 
of gigot stuffed with garlic ; after which meal he would 
drink a few glasses of tafia, smoke a cigarette or two of 
caporalj and then call upon me and invariably kiss me. 
His breath was attar of roses or Ess. Bouquet compared 
to the person of an average Spaniard. By an extrava- 
gant and continuous consumption of garlic, these people, 
men and women, get it into their skins. From their 
skins it passes into their clothes, so that they walk about 
in a small personal atmosphere of garlic indescribably 
sickly and sickening. A Spanish gentleman remarked to 
me one day in a Madrid salon, whilst praising English- 



176 "ABAJO EL AJO ! ?? 

women, their beauty, virtues, &c., " There is only one 
fault that I detected in them their skin has no perfume. 
When I kiss a Spanish lady's hand, I smell that deli- 
cious national odour that we all adore ; but an English 
lady's hand, though delicately white and soft, does not 
absolutely smell of anything I " He missed, poor fel- 
low, the taint of garlic, which infects almost every human 
being in the Peninsula. I have travelled a good deal at 
night about Spain ; they never put fewer than eight per- 
sons in a compartment which will comfortably hold four, 
and I have enjoyed the privilege of being one of thirteen 
through a long night's journey. Everybody except 
myself exuded garlic from every pore all the way. The 
windows were closed it was a hot night ! One might 
as well have sate in an olla podrida, or in that still worse 
conglomerate of nastiness, a puchero. Depend upon it 
that Spain will never be a great and prosperous nation 
till its sons and daughters give up their loathsome diet 
a Vail for one more solid and less offensive. " Abajo cl 
ajo ! " should be the motto of all true Iberian patriots ; 
for garlic forms a barrier unseen, but alas ! not un- 
smelt against foreign enterprise and capital, of a far 
more formidable character than that constituted either 
by the Pyrenees or the sea. 

I happened to be travelling in Andalusia whilst Cas- 
telar was starring that province as a Republican propa- 
gandist in the late autumn of 1868, and met him at a 
small station between Alicante and La Encina, where 
the sovereign people was far too wildly enraptured with 
the sound of its own shouting to give him a chance of 
making a speech; so he was compelled to confine Ms 



REPUBLICAN HOSPITALITY. 177 

share in the proceedings to vigorous though, unintelligible 
patriotic pantomime, and the last I saw of him was his hat, 
as he was swept down the dusky road that leads from the 
Estacion to the town, hustled and shoved onwards by as 
sweet a lot of dirty and ragged loafers as could well be 
gathered together in any Spanish city which is saying 
a good deal. When I got to La Encina, one of those 
agreeable places in which one changes for everywhere, 
as the train appointed to convey me to Talencia was not 
more than an hour and a half behind time in starting, 
I had an opportunity for a somewhat protracted chat 
with the lessee of the refreshment department,, a remark- 
ably intelligent Frenchman, whose recueil of u Spanish 
Notes" appeared to be inexhaustible. He gave me a 
funny account of the hospitality with which the Alicante 
Eepublican committee had entertained the hero of the 
day, who arrived at Encina at mid-day (" the hour of 
breakfast to the fork, hem ? "), after travelling all night 
with less comfort than sleep, and less food than either. 
" They embrace him monDieu, how they embrace him! 
They draw him, panting with impulse generous, into my 
establishment. They force him affectionately into a chair 
he smile, for he think he receive a repast my word ! 
They command to him a cup of chocolate and a glass of 
cold water ! His figure lengthens ; but he eats his choco- 
late ; yes, and he drinks his water, whilst they address 
him compliments longs comme $a ! I I laugh under 
my counter ; but I laugh sadly too; for I only get three 
francs for the whole ovation they offer him. The others, 
they all drink a little water it was not an affair ! As 
he go away so popular, so hungry, I think, si f Stats Iw, 

VOL. II. N 



ITS A POSTAL EPISODE. 

je me ficherais pas mal d*un pareil accueil ! For I never 
heard that the Bepublicanism was a thing nourishing ! " 
This restaurateur recounted to me an incident so deli- 
ciously illustrative of the way they manage things in 
Spain that I cannot resist the temptation of repeating it. 
"Yesterday, vogez-vous, the mail train from Madrid he 
arrive four hours late, and he find the Alicante train 
parted it was already three hours ; so the employe of the 
post in charge of the mail-bags he bring them in here 
and put them down in a corner whilst they make up a 
special train for Alicante. Well, he smoke some cigar- 
ettes, drink some water, and talk much to Don Pedro, 
Don Luis, Don Cristobal, and all the other cavaliers of 
the administration. When the train is ready, he jump 
in and part for Alicante ; but he take not his bags with 
him ; no, he leave his courrier there, in that corner, 
where I find them more late ! Do you think they wash 
Mm the head, at the post-office in Alicante, when he 
arrive the hands empty ? Not at all. He say to them, 
< I forgot the bags to-night ; to-morrow they come all 
the same. 3 They say to him, c Es lueno ! ' and all the 
world couches himself ! The people in Alicante cry for 
their letters ; but that is their affair all that the gen- 
tlemen at the post-office tell them is, < Go you with 
God ! ' Nobody reclaims to what good, then ? " 

One of the sights of Seville is the fruit market of the 
Incarnacion. It is an oblong square, covering more 
ground than Covent Garden, and, with the exception of 
one broad stone thoroughfare, dividing it into two sections, 
and an open paved way running right round it, is com- 
pletely covered with whitewashed brick sheds, cool and 



A FRUIT MARKET. 179 

airy, through which, you may take a delightful stroll, 
inhaling fragrant odours, and surrounded by a wealth of 
colour that would exhaust an artist's palette. From the 
beams and rafters above you hang long strings of onions, 
their glittering coats a bright reddish brown festoons 
of scarlet and emerald pepper-pods huge cocoa-nuts in 
their rhinocerontic outer shells gourds of all shapes 
and hues mighty cucumbers and choice melons in nets, 
hung up to ripen. To the right and left of your "path 
are the stalls, small enclosures like cattle-pens ; in the 
centre of each squats its proprietor, hedged in on all 
sides by piles of fruit. Great bags of chestnuts are 
poured out prodigally at his feet ; round his head are 
clustered enormous bunches of grapes, hanging from the 
woodwork of his stall ; pyramids of musk melons en- 
compass him round about ; deep baskets, overflowing 
with pomegranates tinted like the falling leaf, yellow 
and rosy apples, pimento and delicate milk-white onions, 
form the front bulwark of his stronghold; and close 
behind him, shielded by his body from the raids of 
adventurous, prowling por-dios-senores and boys, is a 
large osier pannier, half filled with soft hay, into which 
he throws, with a lofty and careless air, the coins you 
give him in exchange for his tempting commodities. A 
clumsy pair of scales dangles hard by, in which he 
weighs the ponderous melons and gleaming onions the 
smaller fruits are sold by number, these and the peppers 
by weight. Of all the splendid objects displayed in his 
store, the only ones that fulfil their outward promise are 
the pomegranates, onions, and chestnuts ; the rest are 
fair outside and disappointment within. Those golden 

w 2 



180 SPANISH FBUIT. 

grapes, glowing with, the hot kiss of the autumn sun, 
are little but skin and stones, the former being about as 
thick and tough, as a kid glove. Those prodigious 
melons, dark green turned up with, delicate yellow, are as 
insipid as weak sugar and water. Those peach.es, big as 
cricket-balls, are as hard and as ungrateful to the palate ; 
as projectiles in time of war, they might be useful as 
comestibles, they are naught. Those lordly gilded 
apples, flecked with pink and crimson bars, are so many 
gaily clothed globes of pith. Spanish fruit, which, with 
ever so little care and cultivation, should 'be, by reason 
of the soil and climate, some of the finest in the world, 
is merely a delusion and a snare ; it grows in accord- 
ance with the fanciful decrees of Dame Nature run wild, 
and, like many other untended products of this hapless 
country, hath a seemly exterior, et voila tout. Lingering 
along the approaches to the market, and wistfully snuf- 
fing the highly-scented heaps lining their road, come 
companies of patient, ear-twitching donkeys, laden with 
bags of chestnuts and pimento packed in matting, and 
carelessly halloed along by a being who looks a much 
more ferocious beast than any of his convoy. He wears 
a short jacket of goatskin or sheepskin, the hair or wool 
outside, ragged breeches reaching to the middle of his 
thigh, and kept together by a sash, once red, in which is 
stuck a murderous snickersnee. His beard mixes with 
the tawny hair on his naked breast, blackened by the 
fierce sun ; his head is swathed in a handkerchief brown 
with grease and dirt ; and his feet are protected by toe- 
leas sandals, fastened round the ankle with leathern 
thongs. Beggars, afflicted with the most revolting 



SPANISH BEGGARS. 181 

infirmities, dog your steps as you saunter through 
the arcades, and do their test as indeed they do in 
every part of Spain to spoil your enjoyment of the gay 
scene. At the rate of a cuarto to every four beggars, 
Bothschild or Erlanger would, after a short residence in 
this peninsula, be reduced to competition with their 
'beneficiaires. Walk once round the Puerta del Sol at 
Madrid, and you shall be importuned at least three 
hundred times for alms. Traverse the short distance 
between the Plaza de la Libertad and the Cathedral at 
Seville, and your heart shall be made sick with more 
harrowing appeals and awful manifestations of deformity 
and disease than the experience of a lifetime in England 
or France could afford you. Besides the genuine un- 
fortunates that possess only too terrible claims to your 
compassion, there are hundreds of idle vagabonds of 
either sex whose mendicancy is a blot upon public 
decency. 



CHAPTEE VI. 

LIEE IN BUCHAREST. 

IT lias been assumed by an authoress of no mean capacity 
that tlie capital of Koumania is essentially a rollicking, 
dissipated, and agreeably immoral city, teeming with, 
dangerous enchantments and exercising an irresistible 
fascination upon those strangers whom duty or chance 
has induced to sojourn within its gates. So vivaciously 
impressed was the gifted lady alluded to by the manifest 
charm of life in Bucharest, during her brief visit to the 
banks of the Dumbovitsa, that she christened it "The City 
of Pleasure/ 7 wrote a very lively and telling book about 
it, the only defect of which was that it lacked internal 
evidence to substantiate the aptness of its title, described 
the place and people in glowing terms, and slily but 
unmistakably conveyed to her readers the impression 
that, on the whole, Bucharest was " naughty but nice." 
The work in question made a decided hit, achieved the 
honours of translation into the French language, and was 
read eagerly in Koumanian society, with pride and grati- 
fication somewhat tempered by astonishment, but in 
nowise, I am bound to admit, marred by the fair word- 
painter's more than insinuation to the effect that the 
joys of Bucharest, constituting its chief attraction and 
entitling it to the designation of the Pleasure City par 



THE " CITY OF PLEASURE." 183 

excellence, were wicked joys, intrinsically meriting the 
reprobation of the moralist, but so delightfully wrapped 
up in a filmy, pliant veil of tolerance that even their 
more salient points of viciousness were scarcely percep- 
tible at a casual glance, such as an average tourist is 
apt to cast at the institutions, manners, and customs of a 
foreign capital which he is visiting for the first time. 
Bucharest society, figurately speaking, was depicted in 
the " City of Pleasure 3? as a bed of bright-hued and aro- 
matically-perfumed roses, under which lurked a perilous 
brood of tiny snakes, venomous truly, but with such 
brilliant eyes, like sparkling jewels, such decorative skins 
and such lithe graceful undulations as they glided hither 
and thither through the recesses of their fragrant couch, 
that a transient glimpse of them, from time to time, was 
wont to excite admiration rather than to provoke alarm. 
A few plain truths respecting Bucharest, its alleged 
enchantments and real characteristics, set down dis- 
passionately upon paper by one who has been free of 
Eoumania in general, and its capital in particular, for 
more than twenty years past, maj possibly prove not 
altogether uninteresting. I should perhaps, in order to 
justify my pretensions to write upon this subject avee 
connoissance de cause, premise that my acquaintance with 
the a scumpa tseara si frumoasa" now prospering ex- 
ceedingly under Hohenzollern rule, dates from the re- 
mote epoch when John Alexander Cusa, most jovial of 
viveurs and astute of Hospodars, reigned over the United 
Principalities of Wallachia and Moldavia, first amalga- 
mated into one homogeneous realm by Ms dexterous 
manipulation of rival aspirations and jealousies that, 



184 PAIR ROUMANIA, 

through long residence In both Principalities, during 
which every conceivable opportunity was generously 
afforded to me, officially and privately, of becoming familiar 
with the very penetralia of Eoumanian society, I have 
acquired some knowledge of its habits and that some 
slight services I had the good fortune to render to a 
most kindly, amiable, and hospitable people at an im- 
portant conjuncture in its recent history have been 
deemed worthy of a national recognition far above their 
deserts. I have been made to feel at home in Bonmania, 
that' "dear and lovely land" as it is styled in Vasil 
Alecsandri's pathetic national hymn its language and 
literature are well-nigh as familiar to me as my own 
and I may therefore, perhaps, without presumption 
attempt to rectify some errors that have obtained Euro- 
pean currency with respect to the leading features of 
life in its capital, where I have not only wintered, but 
spent two entire summers a rare experience for a 
foreign visitor to the chief city of Modern Dacia. 

Bucharest, although its population scarcely equals in 
number that of a third-rate German Eesidenz, or of a 
great metropolitan parish, is one of the largest towns in 
Christendom, as far as its mere territorial dimensions are 
concerned. The favourite boast of its inhabitants is that 
it covers as much ground as Paris ; nor can those who 
thus vaunt the magnitude of its proportions be justly 
accused of any considerable exaggeration, for nine houses 
out of ten within its precincts are " detached residences/' 
standing entre cour et jardin, a circumstance which not 
only accounts for its extraordinary size but renders 
intelligible the painful difficulties experienced by 



BfCHABEST STREETS. 185 

foreigners in discovering the abodes of native acquaint- 
ances upon whom social obligations compel them to call 
the evening, Tby the way, being generally accepted in 
Bucharest society as the most fitting time for exchanging 
courtesies of that particular class. With the solitary 
exception of the new Boulevard a broad but brief 
thoroughfare sparsely flanked with public buildings 
there is not a perfectly straight street in any part of the 
Eoumauian capital. Even the most fashionable streets 
are as distractingly tortuous as they are apparently inter- 
minable. In this particular respect, Bucharest has pre- 
served its Oriental character, gaining in picturesqueness 
what it loses in convenience. The numbering of the 
houses, too, is eccentric, not to say erratic ; nor is the 
spelling of a street's name at one of its ends always 
identical with that adopted at the other, whilst both 
may haply exhibit startling variations from the ortho- 
graphy used towards the middle. Add to these perplex- 
ing conditions the fact that, save in a dozen or so of the 
principal thoroughfares, sidewalks are unknown to the 
streets of Bucharest, whilst their roadways are composed 
of casual stones, strewn about anyhow, without the least 
regard to size, shape, symmetrical arrangement, or even 
rudimentary adjustment, with every here and there a 
" soft place/ 5 that is, a mud-abyss in winter or rainy 
weather, and a dust-gulf in summer. To walk along 
these streets is anguish, to drive over them torture. 
Sprained ankles can hardly fail to accrue from the former 
method of locomotion; spinal dislocation may readily 
result from the latter. A round of calls in the fashion- 
able quarter, performed in a swift lirja driven at a hard 



186 " ^ DBIVESTG IN BUCHAREST. 

gallop by a burly, beardless Lip o van, who deems Ms 
professional honour involved in urging his spirited little 
steeds to the top of their speed when his fare is a " Bojar 
strainu,'' or foreign gentleman, generally causes that 
unfortunate individual to undergo an optical delusion 
consisting of several thousand highly luminous tadpoles 
flitting about in view of his mind's eye, to acquire a 
coppery taste in the mouth, and a dreadful buzzing, as 
of many choleric hornets, in his ears. The gaping 
chasms above alluded to are generally taken flying, a 
proceeding which seems to act telescopically upon, his 
aching frame, either drawing it out until the distance 
between Ms head and his feet appears to be only com- 
putable in furlongs, or closing it together with such 
vehemence that the risk of being choked by his boots 
obtrudes itself irresistibly upon Ms overwrought imagi- 
nation. If Bucharest be indeed a " City of Pleasures, " 
most assuredly locomotion is not one of them. 

As a matter of fact, life in Bucharest, even for those 
qualified by the most lavish boons of fortune, health, 
and good spirits to enjoy it, is singularly uneventful, 
decidedly monotonous I will even go so far as to say, 
indisputably dull. Its amusements are curiously limited 
in number and ridiculously inferior in quality to those 
with which the capitals of Central and Western Europe 
abound. There is only one theatre worthy of the name, 
in which operatic performances are given during the 
winter season by scratch companies of fifth-rate singers 
who could not obtain a hearing in London, Paris, or 
Vienna. Every other year or so a travelling troupe 
of French all-round artistes turns up from Odessa, 



BUCHAEEST AMUSEMENTS. 187 

Constantinople, or Pesth, and the jeunesse doree of 
Bucharest revels during six or eight weeks in amaz- 
ing renderings of Offenbach's and Lecocq's operettas, 
Sardou's and Dumas' dramas, and the more highly- 
spiced of the Palais Eoyal farces. It is deemed 
the correct thing by the young bloods of the Jockey 
Club ; whilst these French strollers are dismally wading 
through their heterogeneous repertoire, to be au mieux 
with one or another of the raddled .old a singing sou- 
brettes " or " leading ladies " who ape the roles of 
" bright particular stars" in these dim dramatic constel- 
lations. But there is a good deal more bragging than 
reality about these alleged liaisons mere caricatures of 
profligacy and no a curled darling' 3 of Bucharest 
salons, sufficiently intimate with a foreigner to tell him 
the truth respecting a matter in which amour propre is 
involved, will attempt for a moment to persuade him 
that any of the joys, innocent or vicious, to be derived 
from the periodical sojourns of Italian singers or French 
actresses in the Eoumanian capital, are to be reckoned 
amongst the local attractions assumed to haye entitled it 
to universal fame as " The City of Pleasure." 

In the way of private amusements and domestic 
recreations Bucharest is scarcely better off than she "is 
with respect to entertainments of a public character. 
The arts are as yet but slenderly cultivated in Boumania, 
and the study of music, in particular, cannot be said to 
have advanced beyond the rudimentary stage. Few 
Roumanian ladies sing or play with any degree of pro- 
ficiency \ and my experience in Bucharest salons, to 
which musical performances are admitted as an element 



188 SOCIAL ENTERTAINMENTS. 

of social diversion, have penetrated me with the convic- 
tion that there is not a single first-class pianoforte in the 
whole city. Even executants of real merit, like the 
Princess Jon Ghica, appear content to play upon second 
and third-rate instruments, whilst in the houses of 
wealthy Boyars whose names are historical landmarks, 
may be found objects bearing the aspect and dignified 
by the title of pianofortes, which, considered as mediums 
for the production of musical sounds, have no more 
affinity to a Bechstein or a Bluethner than a child's toy- 
fiddle has to a Stradivarius or an Amati. "A little 
music " seldom enters into the recreative programme of 
a Eoumanian soiree, and its omission therefrom saves the 
chatty Boyars and Boyarins, whose resources in the way 
of political and personal small-talk are inexhaustible, 
from a great deal of irksome restraint and no little posi- 
tive annoyance. During the season every "personage " 
of society who can afford it, including the King and 
Queen, gives one splendid and sumptuous ball, at which 
you are sure to meet everybody that is anybody ; and 
ten or twelve grander dames de par le monde throw open 
their salons once a week (Sunday is the favourite " re- 
ceiving night" for these leaders of fashion) to all that is 
distinguished and illustrious by birth or official station, 
native or foreign, in the capital. At these pleasant 
reunions an impromptu dance not unfrequently concludes 
the evening ; but interminable and never-flagging cause- 
rieSj lively or sentimental, constitute the chief feature of 
Eoumanian social gatherings, at which fragrant cigar- 
ettes and exquisite tea are de rigueur, whilst card-playing, 
except amongst the elder foreign diplomatists and a few 



CARD PLATING. 189 

of the more old-fashioned territorial magnates, finds but 
little favour. There is plenty of picquet, preference^ and 
cayenne-whist to be had at the club, the points being as 
a rule far less extravagant than they are at the " Bebe" 
in Paris, or at one or two exceptionally exclusive clubs 
in Pall Mall. Baccarat is not altogether unknown to 
the members of the "Jockey," a club on the Podoi 
Mogosoi founded by Creppy Vivian, where anybody, 
moreover, who yearns for a five-louis ecarte-pool can 
obtain his heart's desire without difficulty. But really 
high play, damaging to fortune and honour, such as I 
have witnessed in well-nigh every other European 
capital, is of extremely rare occurrence in Bucharest ; 
and, although I have lived for months at a stretch in the 
very thick of the u playing set," whose afternoons and 
nights are chiefly spent at the card-table, I do not re- 
member to have ever seen five hundred pounds won or 
lost by any individual player at a single sitting. The 
science of betting is still a mystery to Eoumanian sports- 
men, and billiards involve too much trouble to be taken 
earnestly in hand by the languid lions of Bucharest. 

That the outdoor amusements of the Eoumanian capi- 
tal consist almost exclusively of driving and riding 
the latter exercise, moreover, only finding favour with 
the sterner sex on the Chaussee, a long and dusty 
extramural road leading from the extreme end of the 
Podoi Mogosoi to nowhere in particular, is attributable 
to the congenital indolence of Dacian men and to the 
circumstance that the vast majority of well-born Eouma- 
nian women suffer from constitutional anaemia* The 
jeunesse doree of Bucharest society experiences no ambi- 



190 DACIAN DANDIES. 

tion whatsoever to excel in athletic sports, or, indeed, in 
any physical accomplisliment involving either personal 
trouble or muscular exertion. Cricket and croquet are 
alike unknown to these good-looking, dapper youths, 
ninety per cent, of whom, to speak within reasonable 
bounds, have never seen a tennis-court, a racing-boat, 
or a game of football, or taken a fair heel-and-toe ten- 
mile walk in the whole course of their lives. They can 
ride gracefully enough, are tolerable fencers, and amaz- 
ingly good marksmen with the pistol, these latter 
acquirements being indispensable to men of anything 
like social standing in a country where politics and flir- 
tations run equally high, and differences arising from 
either are, in ten cases out of twelve, settled by the 
arbitrament of the duello. But the curled darlings of 
Bucharest salons, although good horsemen, whips, and 
swordsmen, are certainly not athletes from the English, 
or even the German, point of view. They lack that joy 
in the mere consciousness of possessing well-trained 
muscular force that stimulates English lads of the upper 
classes to court fatigue, exposure, and positive privation ; 
and they are entirely deficient in the rationalistic turn 
of mind which prompts the youth of Germany to acquire 
proficiency in all gymnastic exercises, on the common- 
sense ground that life is but a struggle of the unit 
against the plurality, in which chronic combat the 
strongest wins and the weakest goes to the wall ; and 
that strength of body, as well as of intellect, being ob- 
viously an element of success in conflict, should there- 
fore be cultivated even unto its maximum of possible 
development. Neither British instincts nor Teutonic 



DA.CIA3T BANDIES. 191 

reasonings, in so far as they have bearing upon tie 
delights or utilities of severe physical exertion, find any 
echo in the happy-go-lucky, eminently amiable and lan- 
guidly careless disposition of the young Boumanian lion 
a tons crins. He finds a more congenial outlet for what- 
ever latent energy, enterprise, and perseverance may 
leaven the inborn indolence of his character, in flirtation 
than in fives, in small-talk than in steeple-chasing, in 
piquet than in polo. As a rule, he is a Past-Master in 
love-making ere he has attained an age at which English 
and German hobbledehoys have not yet served their 
apprenticeship to that dangerous craft. But, long after 
he has carried the tale of his conquests over from the 
little finger of his left hand to the thumb of his right, 
has contributed to a divorce or two and fought Ms first 
duel, any average Eton boy of the upper-fifth could 
"lick his head off" at running, jumping, or swimming, 
whilst the " sappiest " primaner at a Berlin gymnasium 
could give him an unknown number of points at swarm- 
ing up the hanging rope or vaulting the double-bar. It is 
the absoluteness of his disabilities in these respects that 
limits his open-air recreations at least, during his resi- 
dence in the capital, throughout its winter and spring 
seasons to driving, riding, and sauntering on the 
Chaussee, a home-preserve of Dan Cupid, where Stre- 
phon can count upon finding Chloe any fine afternoon ; 
and Phyllis, well aware that nothing short of a cata- 
clysm can prevent Damon, attired in the latest Parisian 
fashion, from meeting her at the Rondeau or in the avenue 
of beeches that serves as a lounge for the crSme de 1& 
creme of Bucharest society during the delightful hour 



192 THE CHATTSS^E. 

immediately preceding sunset, reclines in her landau 
with half-shut eyes, apparently heedless of all surround- 
ing objects, as she is swiftly driven up and down the 
long promenade, until the intently-watched-for appear- 
ance of her favourite admirer for the time being elicits 
a flash of black lightning from those seemingly sleepy 
orbs. A few seconds later her caftaned, velvet-capped 
coachman will be observed to rein in Ms horses and 
draw up to the roadside, or haply to turn their heads in 
an opposite direction to that in which, he was assiduously 
urging them along when a soft hiss, followed by a brief 
command, issuing sotto voce from his "mitica DoamnaV 
lips, apprised him that the "Pirutschade ?? portion of 
his postmeridional duties that is to say, the function of 
displaying to the greatest advantage his mistress, her 
toilette, carriage, and attelage^ as well as his own skill 
in driving had come to an end ; and that for the next 
hour or two he might confidently consider himself u in 
waiting." 

The Chaussee is so leading a feature in Bucharest 
fashionable life and what other life is there in the 
Eoumanian capital worth speaking of ? that it deserves 
some slight attempt at description. Being, in fact, a 
national highway or turnpike road, as its name denotes, 
its length is more or less an unknown quantity. I 
know that it begins at the octroi barrier, just about the 
spot where the enceinte of Bucharest would commence to 
the westward, were that most straggling of cities a 
fortified place ; and 1 opine that it terminates somewhere 
in the Carpathians, on the Transylvanian frontier, where 
its Koumanian end probably offers a painful contrast to 



aORTCHAJLOFF A2H) EOSETTI. 193 

the smooth, and solid Austrian posting-road into which 
it "becomes merged. It is only fashionable and there- 
fore tolerably macadamised for a couple of miles or so 
from its starting-point ; but, throughout about a third 
of that distance, it is flanked on either side at short 
intervals by pretty villas and gardens, used as summer- 
residences by the wealthy Boyars, financiers, and politi- 
cians to whom they belong. In one of these suburban 
retreats, the dulce domum of that eminent statesman and 
art connoisseur, Kogalniceanu, I witnessed, during the 
early summer of 1877, a strange political rencontre between 
the venerable Prince GortchakofF, the living impersona- 
tion of absolutist governmental principles and old-world 
diplomacy, and Costaki Rosetti, a democrat of democrats, 
at that time the guiding spirit of the Bratiano Cabinet, 
although not himself a Cabinet Minister, but holding 
irresponsible office as Speaker of the Roumanian House 
of Commons, and exercising extraordinary influence 
upon public opinion by his writings in the Romanul, of 
which he was at once proprietor and editor. More or 
less directly concerned in every revolutionary movement 
or political conspiracy that has agitated the Latin races 
of Europe during the last forty years, and affiliated to 
all the secret societies having for their object the subver- 
sion of monarchical institutions throughout the universe, 
Costaki B/osetti was probably the last man alive with whom 
Alexander Gortchakoff would have desired to spend an 
evening, could he possibly have avoided so doing ; nor 
could anyone acquainted with the lives and characters 
of these two remarkable personages believe for a moment 
that the Arch-Republican par excellence of Eastern 
VOL. ii. o 



194 GOETCH1KOPF AND EOSETTI. 

Europe was likely to derive mudi real gratification from 
sitting on a sofa side by side with, the most uncompro- 
mising advocate and instrument of despotism that ever, 
not "being a Czar, ruled the Eussian roost. Thus the 
few guests admitted by the Foreign Minister's especial 
favour to witness that most incongruous meeting, and 
who were gathered round the divan upon which, the viva- 
cious Eussian Chancellor had snugly installed himself after 
casting a glance at some of Kogalniceanu's art treasures, 
awaited the arrival of the distinguished Eoumanian 
Democrat with some anxiety as well as curiosity ; nor 
was our illustrious host, though justly renowned for his 
coolness in critical situations, as perfectly at his ease as 
I have seen him when parliamentary storms were raging 
over his head, or when, in his temporary lodging at Ber- 
lin, he was awaiting the Congress's decisions, in July, 
1878, upon which the destinies of his native country 
were altogether dependent. However, the Dogmatist 
of Despotism (although manifestly in liquor) and the 
Apostle of Freedom got on together much better than 
could reasonably have been expected, considering their 
hearty mutual detestation of each other's political 
principles. Although they exchanged more than one 
sharp word-thrust in the course of their conversational 
encounter, which lasted about a quarter of an hour, they 
contrived to maintain a sufficient cordiality of demeanour 
to "save the situation" and effectually relieve their 
host, as well as the other Eoumanian statesmen present 
at this historical interview, from the disquietudes sug- 
gested to them by the diametrical divergence of these 
two gifted men's opinions not to mention another 



THE KOU3A2ttAff COJRSO. 195 

alarming factor in the social problem offered to our con- 
sideration, namely. Prince Grortehakoff's fiery temper, 
but ill calculated to brook restraint, and only too liable 
to break bounds upon much lighter proyocation than it 
was deemed likely to suffer from RosettPs rough humour 
and irrepressible bluntness of manner. All went off 
quietly enough, however j and those who had felt as if 
they were standing on the brink of a volcano whilst 
Alexander Michailovich was peering restlessly through 
his spectacles at the Mazzini of Eoumania (whose life 
would not have been worth five minutes' purchase, could 
the Russian Chancellor have had his will of it, any time 
during the twenty years previous to their meeting) drew 
a long breath of unmixed satisfaction when the party 
broke up naturally, instead of being violently shattered 
to fragments by some untimely explosion of outraged 
absolutism or infuriate democracy. 

But Chaussee associations have caused me to stray in 
the most unjustifiable manner from the promenade itself. 
Some little distance beyond Its inhabited region, and 
about half way to the Eond Point, fashion and beauty's 
Ultima Thule, stands a dainty little kiosque in the centre 
of a semicircular clearing set out with tiny tables and 
chairs. It is " the thing " to alight from carriage or 
horseback during the daily rounds in the Chaussee, and 
to take some slight refreshment at this miniature alfresco 
caf an ice or slice of watermelon in the warm spring 
afternoons, a draught of hot spiced wine or a dram of 
eura<joa when the snow lies from three to four feet deep 
on the metalled surface of the roadway, and sledging, 
under conditions of aggravated flirtation, 

o 2 



196 SUPPER ANT) MINSTRELSY. 

fast and furious. At the Eond Point itself broad tracks, 
which it were vile flattery to qualify as roads, strike off 
to the left and right, leading to cosy retreats well 
known to the lions and lionnes of Bucharest society, and 
to supper-gardens enlivened after a certain hour of the 
night by the quaint and charming performances of the 
laotari, or native minstrels, with whose musical achieve- 
ments and professional peculiarities I have already dealt 
in a preceding chapter. It is a favourite amusement of 
the more emancipate young Boyars and Boyarins to 
drive out to one or other of these gradine between 
ten P.M. and midnight, after the theatre, and partake of 
" champagne and a chicken at last" in a vine-clad 
arbour or, if the weather be chilly, in a snug little 
wooden chalet whilst swarthy songsters chant wild 
national legends of robbers, sprites, and giants, or 
interpret, with most musical voices and admirable 
expression, Basil Alecsandri's tender and passionate 
lays. Chiefly favoured in these nocturnal excursions by 
patricians of both sexes is the Gradina Herestreu, a vast 
and swampy but well- wooded wilderness greatly beloved 
by Eoumanian frogs, there gathered together in unnum- 
bered millions, and vocal, during the hours of darkness, 
to an extent that triumphantly defies all competition on 
the part of the laotari. Anybody who is curious to 
ascertain what batrachian capacities in the way of 
massive chorus-croaking can achieve, when countless 
frogs are settled down comfortably in a locality perfectly 
suited to their convenience and requirements and espe- 
cially favourable to the development of their peculiar 
serenading proclivities, should spend a moonshiny clear 



THE "GOOD OLD DAYS," 197 

night in the Garden of the Saw the grinding of which 
useful but somewhat strident implement, by the way, 
produces sounds extraordinarily similar to those emitted 
by the amphibious aborigines of that moist but musical 
resort. 

When a British squire of the Conservative variety, 
much exercised by the levelling tendencies of the age 
we live in, makes regretful allusion to the " good old 
days/' or a French Legitimist noble, writhing tinder the 
Eepublican yoke, mournfully refers to " le bon vienx 
temps," those would-be reactionaries may generally be 
understood to refer to historical periods from which the 
present generation is separated by from one century to 
three hundred years or so. According to laudatores 
iemporis acti of the classes alluded to, no epoch in 
English or French annals that was at least not consider- 
ably antecedent to the discovery of steam-power and 
the extinction of the professional highwayman in these 
islands, or to the invention of the guillotine and the 
abolition of the droit du seigneur in fair France, would 
be entitled to claim the least respect or consideration as 
a "genuine good old time." Similarly a Prussian 
Kraut- Junker would assuredly date back "die guten 
alten Zeiten' 7 to the reign of Frederic the Great, at 
latest j whilst an Austrian Tory or Magyar Federalist, 
if called upon to define his ideal of the " good old days," 
could scarcely fail to relegate them to the period when 
Maria Theresa, Empress-King of immortal memory, 
ruled her peoples on either side the Leitha with a rod 
of iron. 

Eoumania has been, until very lately, so inveterate a 



198 JON ALECSANDRU CUSA. 

laggard in that international race of which the prizes 
are independence, civil liberty, and self-government, that 
her " good old days " or at least what would be consi- 
dered as such from the purely Boyar point of view are 
much less remote from the present time than those of 
any other Christian country in Central or Western 
Europe. As a matter of fact, but a quarter of a century 
intervenes between the Roumania of to-day, free, con- 
stitutional and parliamentary, linked to her neighbours 
by railway and telegraphic lines, her chief cities paved 
with wood or asphalte and lighted by gas, her bri- 
gandage extirpated and her internal traffic locomotion 
carried on upon good solid roads, and the "Danubian 
Principalities " occupied by Austrian troops during the 
Crimean war a sort of Debateable Land, the favourite 
battle-ground of surrounding nations throughout- many 
a woeful century. Moldavia and Wallachia, within the 
remembrance of middle-aged men, were distinct pro- 
vinces, each ruled by a Hospodar of its own, selected 
by the Porte from among the great Dacian or Phanariote 
Boyars native to the soil. These Hospodars were Turkish 
vassals; the principalities themselves constituted an 
integral portion of the Ottoman Empire. A Moldavian 
soldier of fortune, Joha Alexander Cusa, first brought 
about their amalgamation into one State by persuading 
the notables of either province to forward his name to 
Stamboul for appointment to the office of their common 
Hospodar, and by judiciously bribing the then Sultan's 
advisers to ratify his simultaneous election at Jassy and 
Bucharest the result of local discontents, finding their 
expression in rioting and disorder, to which it is not 



ROUMAKIA IN 1865. 199 

necessary to do more than allude in this place. But Cusa, 
though a man of unquestionable ability and patriotism, 
was unable either to free his country from its vassaldom 
to Turkey or to civilise the people submitted to his 
sway. When I first visited Bucharest and made his 
acquaintance twenty- two years ago, the feudal system, 
comprising absolute serfdom, and the Boyar's power of 
life and death over the tiller of the soil, had but 
recently been abolished. In the whole of the United 
Principalities there was not a metalled highway fifty 
miles in length, nor a single yard of railroad. Torture, 
though illegal, was still practised by barbarous officials 
in the provinces ; a revolting case came under my per- 
sonal cognisance at Ploesti only a few weeks before 
Cusa's abdication was extorted from Mm by a band of 
conspirators chiefly composed of men whom he had 
raised from nothing to positions of high trust aud re- 
sponsibility: The Eoumanian " good old days " came to 
an end with his fall ; that is to say, the days that were 
bad, wicked, and cruel for the miserably oppressed Eou- 
manian people, but " good" only to two privileged classes 
the Moldo-Wallachian Boyars and priests and to one 
guild or craft, practised by a strange, wild folk, not, 
strictly speaking, of Koumanian nationality, but enjoy- 
ing, far beyond all men of pure Dacian blood, the favour 
alike of prince and peasant. The inauguration of the 
new era which dawned upon Eoumania when Charles of 
Hohenzollern took up his election as Hospodar upon a 
constitutional platform, was a heavy blow indeed to the 
laotari, or minstrels. 
Bucharest is a city of the strangest contrasts. In its 



200 BACE-TYPES IX BUCHAREST. 

streets Occident and Orient, civilisation and barbarism, 
the nineteenth and the tenth centuries, jostle one another 
incessantly, and in the most picturesque manner. The 
natty little French-polished Boyar, who looks just as if 
he had been freshly transported thither from the Boule- 
varts in a Chaussee d'Antin bandbox ; the dark chest- 
nut Eouman peasant, whose costume and language have 
undergone not the least change for eighteen hundred 
years, who is as ignorant of all " the . thoughts that 
shake mankind" as the meek grey bullocks that are part 
of his family and " compose, " from an artistic point of 
view, so admirably with him ; the all but black, all but 
naked, wild-eyed, white-toothed, inconceivably dirty and 
supremely graceful Tsigan, who is still shrewdly sus- 
pected of idolatry, plays all sorts of instruments by 
instinct, is the most dexterous of living " anuexers," 
and can turn his hand to more crafts than any other 
living man ; the lumpish, puffy, yellow-skinned Lipovan, 
in caftan and red cap, like a fluted chimney-cowl, high- 
voiced and well-nigh hairless, the voluntary victim of a 
devilish superstition, whose talent for driving the most 
fierce horses under the most intricate conditions is, like 
poetising, a heaven-born quality, nascitur non fit; the 
bearded, gaberdined Jew with his deep-set eyes, glancing 
keenly yet anxiously round him ; the absolutely nude 
little children of both sexes, couleur de roasted coffee- 
berry ; the gipsy girls, wearing a solitary thin petticoat, 
and a cotton shift open from the throat to below the waist ; 
the swarthy Uouman soldiers, in quaint but service- 
able uniforms of colours never before seen in any Euro- 
pean army colours that somehow or other impress you 



BUCHAREST STBEETS. 201 

as having been borrowed from the druggist's shop ; dark 
eyed, waxen-complexionecl ladies, exquisitely dressed and 
manifestly intent upon doing the greatest possible amount 
of damage to their natural enemies ; yellow-haired, 
snub-nosed Eussian istvostchiks ; portly, spectacled Ger- 
mans; tall, stalwart, sulky Serbs with drooping mous- 
tache and heavy jowl these various and contradictory 
types may be encountered during half an hour's stroll in 
the Podoi Mogoschoi, Bucharest's Eegent Street, Pall 
Mall, and Cornhill, all in one. This Podoi Mogoshoi is, 
with the exception of a new boulevart the trees of 
which will give a pleasant shade some fifty years or so 
hence, if they get over their present sickness the only 
paved street in Bucharest that is, paved according to 
the English or French application of stereotomic prin- 
ciples. Turn but the least bit out of it, into any of the 
highly fashionable streets, where Boyards of prse-Adam- 
itic lineage live in a straggling, hand-to-mouth, reckless 
sort of way, and you will shortly find yourself in a 
wholly different region. To those who are unacquainted 
with the bodily sensations to be experienced during a 
steeplechase in a victoria I recommend with the greatest 
confidence a drive through the side streets of Bucharest. 
There are plenty of water-jumps. Some friends of mine, 
whom I frequently used to visit, lived in the Strada 
Belvedere, wherein was situated a deep and gloomy 
pond which my horses invariably attempted to take in 
their stride, with a want of success that I still deplore. 
There was a nice little brook, with a goodish take-off, in 
the Strada Stirbey Voda, and some stiffish things in the 
way of double jumps in the Strada Herestreu, inhabited 



202 THE BIKJA. 

by any number of seigneurs the Bucharest Grosvenor 
Gardens. You can break your neck, disjoint your spine, 
and loosen your internal economy in general with ludi- 
crous ease in the Eoumanian capital. All you have to do 
is to leap into a Urja a rough sort of victoria, drawn by 
two space-devouring horses, and driven by a child of 
nature shout "Heide!" and administer a humorous 
poke in the middle of the back to your driver. Paren- 
thetically, I may remark that to go out driving in 
Bucharest without a stick would be like putting to sea 
in a ship unprovided with a rudder. None of the Mrjas 
know the names of any house or street and all of them 
regard numbers as a contemptible modern invention, 
quite beneath their notice. You must steer your cab- 
man with your stick. Do you wish him to go to the 
right, you tap him on the right shoulder or hip, observ- 
ing the same procedure, mutatis mutandis^ when you want 
him to go to the left ; " Heide ! J? and a dig in the small 
of the back will start him at a hand gallop ; " Prrrrrr !" 
indefinitely prolonged, will pull him up with a sudden- 
ness that brings your knees and chin together, and gives 
you a metal] ic taste in the mouth. Having started your 
Urja, let him have his head for half a dozen streets 
or so, with what sporting Frenchmen would call their 
a obstacles," and if you do not feel as though you had 
just had a bad railway accident, your microcosm must be 
composed of steel and india-rubber, instead of the usual 
materials. I can fancy that tossing in a blanket must 
produce the kind of physical uneasiness consequent upon 
calling on your friends in Bucharest. The natives are 
hardened they pass half their time between earth and 



" DUMBO VITSA, APA BULGE I " 203 

sky, In lirjas ; but even they cannot stand the punish- 
ment of driving slowly. The terrifying velocity with 
which one is transported from Calea to Strada and Piazza 
to Chaussee In that strange city is chiefly attributable 
to the nature of its surface accidents. At top speed you 
fly over many minor obstructions, each one of which 
would loosen your teeth If you surmounted it with deli- 
beration. How the springs stand it all I cannot imagine. 
Although everybody, prince and peasant, boyar and birfa, 
drives as hard as Ms horses mostly small spirited beasts 
from Bukovina and the Ukraine can lay leg to ground,, 
there is hardly ever an accident; but, en revanche, the 
bad language that is used on all hands may hopefully 
defy European competition. 

I need scarcely, perhaps, state that Bucharest is not 
drained upon sanitary principles. Its sewage is, with a 
gallant disregard of consequences that is somewhat apt 
to astonish an Englishman, carefully conveyed into the 
Dumbovitsa, a small yellow river that runs through the 
city. Now, the Dumbovitsa supplies the inhabitants of 
Bucharest with water ; and it Is a pleasing, suggestive 
sight to contemplate the delivery, by the largest sewer 
in the town, of its contents into this river within a few 
yards of the main pipe of the waterworks, that takes up 
the limpid element and forwards it, without any of your 
luxurious filtering, into the houses of the citizens. A no 
less refreshing spectacle is that afforded at all hours of 
the day by numerous full-grown men, who are bathing 
between the great sewer and the waterworks' main 
sucker. There is no petty affectation of decency about 
these fine fellows, Nevertheless the people of this 



204 THE ROUMANIAN POOR. 

country are getting quite particular about all sorts of 
trifles that formerly they paid no attention to. They 
decidedly wear more clothes that is to say more of 
them wear clothes than they did when I first became 
acquainted with the United Principalities. Boys and 
girls of ten and eleven used to run about in puris natura- 
Hbus Eoumania being then as now, a Christian country, 
ambitious of independence and European status looking 
like animated bronzes and perfectly unaware that they 
were not dressed in the height of the fashion. They 
have something on now not much, indeed, but an 
appreciable garment at least, in Bucharest. I fancy 
that the former modes still prevail in the provinces. 
Most of the children and adolescents are yellow with 
fever, which, as may well be imagined, rages in Bucha- 
rest at all times, but is quite rampant and uncontrollable 
in the summer. How the poor live, whilst they do live, 
is a mystery. Bucharest is not a manufacturing or 
industrial town ; it only manufactures one article 
tobacco, the cultivation and sale of which is a Govern- 
ment monopoly. Meat is far too dear to be got at by 
the lower classes ; vegetarianism is the rule, flesh-eating 
the exception, amongst Eoumanian proUtaires ; and they 
certainly don't look as if a vegetable diet agreed with 
them. They are absurdly, desperately, horribly poor, 
partly because they are lazy, partly because they have 
not stamina enough to work really hard. 

Nothing is more unlike to anything else say milk to 
ink OT pellucid amber to opaque coal than is a Eouma- 
nian to an English Christmas Day. Almost the only 
characteristic common to them both is that of a religious 



CHRISTMAS IX EOUlE\yiA. 205 

anniversary ; and even in this respect they are not per- 
fectly identical, for the Dacian "Serbat<5re Craciunului" 
comes off twelve days later than the British Feast of the 
Nativity. Excessive eating and drinking find no place 
in the Roumanian ritual of Christmas celebrations. The 
descendants of Trajan's legionaries are not a dinner- 
giving, I had almost written, dinner-eating people. Ab- 
stemiousness is one of the leading features in their 
national character. They reck not lusty meats, and how- 
ever oppressive their sorrows may be, seldom seek to 
drown them in the bowl. Broadly speaking, there are 
but two social classes in Roumania the Boyars, or 
landed proprietors, in which category are comprised all 
the offshoots of what we, in England, should call county 
families, including many thousands of officers, Govern- 
ment employes, lawyers, and graceful but unoccupied 
prowlers, who never have owned, or will own, a rood 
of their native soil unless through an advantageous 
matrimonial alliance but nevertheless count as Boyars 
because, at some time or other, somebody from whom 
they claim direct or collateral descent, was a proprietor of 
Dacian dirt, and, as a matter of course until within the 
last twenty years, of Dacian men, women, and children 
to boot. The other class is that of the peasants, mama- 
liga consumers natij who were serfs not so very long ago, 
and owe their emancipation to no strivings after liberty 
of their own, but to the rough and ready philanthropy 
of the much maligned J6n Alecsandrii Ousa, who freed 
them from slavery one afternoon with a bold stroke of 
his pen. The Roumanian who is not a Boyar is a terranu, 
or peasant, and vice versa; exeeptis excipiendis y of 



206 PASTING IN EOU MANIA. 

course. Both classes are addicted to fasting, to an 
extent altogether incompatible with Christmas convivi- 
ality, or indeed with heavy feasting at any special season. 
The peasants fast all the year round for the best of all 
possible reasons because they cannot help it. A good 
many of the so-called Boyars are restrained from habitual 
over-indulgence in the pleasures of the table by an 
exiguity of pecuniary resource scarcely less chronic than 
that which prevents the terranu from damaging his 
digestion or spoiling his figure by frequent surfeits. 
The rich Boyars are, as a rule, conspicuously religious, 
at least in their own country ; and, as the Greek Ortho- 
dox variety of Christianity, which Dacians one and all 
profess, makes quite a speciality amongst creeds of 
pinching the stomachs of its votaries, pious Boyars think 
nothing of fasting for four-and-twenty hours at a stretch, 
three times a week, or of total abstinence from animal 
substance during the long protracted " Ajuni " prescribed 
by the ordinances of their Church. On eggs, fruit, and 
certain cunning preparations of maize-flour, more or less 
artistic outgrowths of the dismal mamaliga mess that 
forms the staple of the peasant's diet, an exemplary 
Boyar will live in a wiry sort of way, not uncheerfully 
or with manifest repining, from one month's end to 
another ; and, when he does at intervals break out into 
meat, exhibits a moderation in the consumption of that 
comestible which may perhaps be most reasonably 
accounted for by the extraordinary contrast between 
price and quality characterising Roumanian beef, the 
former being as phenomenally high as the latter is 
abnormally low. 



THE DACIA^" BULLOCK. SOT 

Any Englishman who, finding it incumbent upon him 
to spend Christmas Day on Eoumanian soil, should yearn 
for the " splendid sirloin " gastronomically associated in 
his mind with the British celebration of that anniversary , 
would, in all probability, after expending much energy 
in efforts as vain as strenuous and costly, to realise his 
longings, have to submit to grievous disappointment. 
There is nothing to be said against the moral character 
of the Eoumanian bullock. A more industrious, patient, 
sober, and conscientious animal does not live. It 
exhibits no reprehensible proclivities towards riotous 
living, spendthriftry, or idleness. Its temper is as sub- 
dued as its hue, a dull, uniform grey. No one can with 
justice accuse Eoumanian bullocks of " letting their 
angry passions rise," nor have they, within the memory 
of man, been seen by any credible person to " scratch 
and tear each other's eyes." They are beasts of the 
highest respectability, whom to know, when living, is to 
esteem. Dead, they are less lovable that is to say, 
considered from the comestible point of view. Converted 
into beef, the Eoumanian bullock is a failure, at once 
mortifying and maleficent. It were unjust, nay, heart- 
less, to blame the worthy ruminant for Ms shortcomings 
in this respect. Not he, but the treatment accorded to 
him during life, must be held accountable for the extra- 
ordinary toughness, dryness, and lack of specific flavour 
by which his flesh may be readily distinguished from 
that of the tender, succulent, and toothsome British ox. 
The Eoumanian method of preparing live bullocks for 
transformation into beef by the lethal process consists 
chiefly in making them work with a minimum of inter- 



208 BEEF IN BOTTMANIA. 

mission at traction of one sort or another for ten or 
twelve years, and in giving them as little to eat, during 
that period, as will just qualify them for plodding 
along, hour after hour, year in year out, in front of 
ploughs, carts, and huge tilted waggons. When a 
Dacian steer has led this exhilarating life for a decade or 
so, in the course of which all of him that was flesh in the 
days of his calf hood has been duly converted into sinew 
bearing a close resemblance to the slips of indiarubber 
manufactured for the use of drawing-schools, his owner, 
recognising in his bearing and demeanour sure symptoms 
of failing strength and incipient infirmity, reluctantly 
resolves to part with him to the nearest butcher, by 
whom he is dealt with secundum artem. It is beef pro- 
duced in this manner that will be served up to the 
Englishman sojourning in Eoumania at Christmastide, 
or any other tide, if he venture to order a fine sirloin of 
" carne de bouu" for his dinner. He will therefore do 
well to eliminate that particular essential of Christmas 
cheer from his m(nu on the 25th of December or 6th of 
January, the Western and Eastern anniversaries of the 
Nativity, either of which he may celebrate with a clear 
conscience, there being about as much to be said for the 
historical authenticity of one date as of the other. The 
true-born Briton lives not who, having exercised his jaws 
upon a Dacian sirloin, could sing with any degree of 
heartiness or jollity, Oh! the roast beef of Eoumania, 
and oh ! the Eoumanian roast beef ! " To the tune of a 
penitential psalm, though, and with tears in his eyes, 
perhaps he might manage to moan out that melancholy 
refrain, fraught with agonising significance. Beef, on 



209 

the left "bank of the Lower Danube, is the converse of a 
yland. 

'Not so the Eoumanian turkey. Fed without stint 
upon the tawny maize for which its native land is justly 
celebrated, this steadfast and continuously assimilative 
bird not infrequently attains a grateful fatness and im- 
posing weight that would qualify it for honourable 
mention in the annals of Leadenhall Market. Confi- 
dently may the curcanu be summoned to the Christmas 
board. He is a meritorious biped, of which Eoumania 
is so proud that she has set Ms plumes in the caps of her 
valiant militiamen, and "Penesh. Curcanul" (Turkey- 
Feather) has been created a popular hero by the magical 
pen of Vasilie Alecsandri, the Eoumanian Laureate. Of 
a verity, the grey turkey-plumes were well to the front 
on the dreadful day of Grivitsa, when the Moldavian 
dorobantsi bore themselves so manfully in their first 
fight. In either quality, as food or a war-emblem, the 
Eoumanian turkey has proved himself, again and again, 
more than equal to all reasonable expectations. Stuffed 
with chestnuts, he defies indigestion and all its works ; 
waving o'er a warrior's brow, his pinion points the way 
to victory or death. 

With respect to other accustomed accessories of the 
British Christmas board, they are almost as conspicuous 
by their absence from Eoumanian dinner-tables at the 
festive season, as roast beef and plum-pudding them- 
selves. The nearest thing to mince-pie in the " scumpa 
tseara sifrumoasa" is stuffed egg-plant. By "making 
believe a good deal," as Dick Swiveller's Marchioness 
did with her orange-peel and water, an Anglo-Saxon, 

VOL. 11. P 



210 DACIA3ST DRINKS. 

gifted with strong will and a lively imagination, may 
perhaps succeed in persuading himself that vinu caldu^ or 
wine heated to scalding point, with cinnamon and nut- 
meg, is a sort of wassail. Mulled Odobesti, however, is 
one of the few Eoumanian institutions to which foreigners 
hybernating in the Principality take most kindly. But 
it is by no means considered peculiarly appropriate to 
Christmastide. All through the terrible four months' 
winter that annually afflicts Eoumania, wnu caldu is per- 
sistently absorbed by the native Boyar and distinguished 
alien, in the vain hope of keeping out the cold. To the 
same end the peasant swallows as many farthing drams 
of rachi, a peculiarly fiery and nauseous spirit, distilled 
from rye, potatoes, old boots, and worn-out fur caps in 
fact ? from pretty nearly any substance that will boil as 
he can purchase, beg, or get credit for at the crisma. 
Six pennyworth of this potent liquor would intoxicate a 
rhinoceros, but an average ierranu will drink a shilling's- 
worth with alacrity if he can get it for nothing. Such a 
dose, of course, makes him dead drunk ; but that is just 
what he considers to be a blissful state. 

Leaving the religious ceremonials incident to the cele- 
bration of the Nativity Feast out of the question, as they 
are absolutely identical with those practised in Eussia, 
Servia, and Bulgaria, and exhibit no local peculiarity 
whatsoever, the two chief characteristics of a Eoumanian 
Christmas are the intense cold of the weather and the 
magnificent scale upon which sledging is carried on in 
town and country by the upper or Boyar class. Those 
who live their lives in these brumous but temperate 
isles can form no notion, based upon sentient experience, 



SLEDGING IX ROUILOIA. 211 

of the severity of a Eoumanlan winter. Towards the 
end of the year, and during the whole month of January 
in particular, the cold becomes almost intolerable, and 
the snow, even in the vast open plains of Greater 
WallacMa, accumulates steadily, as fall succeeds fall, 
until it covers the whole face of the earth with a daz- 
zling white crust several feet in thickness. As a rule, all 
wheeled locomotion, save on the railways, ceases early 
in December, and the transactions of business or plea- 
sure, involving conveyance from one spot to another, are 
dependent exclusive upon sledges for their fulfilment. 
It is about Christm^stide that the Chaussee of Bucharest, 
a long straight drive outside the city, presents an extra- 
ordinarily lively and attractive aspect throughout any 
bright clear afternoon, no matter how profound may be 
the prostration of the mercury in the thermometer-tube. 
Hundreds of gracefully designed and picturesquely 
equipped sleighs are being driven at little short of 
racing speed up and down the road, paved for the nonce 
with a smooth superficies of hardened snow, over which 
the trackers glide, and the horses' hoofs trample noise- 
lessly. There is no lack of gay sound, however, upon 
the Chaussee. That element of vivacity is supplied by 
countless tinkling sledge-bells, and by the high-pitched 
shouts with which the Birjai and Lipovani urge on their 
fiery little steeds to the top of their pace. Many of the 
sledges are quaint and beautiful objects, shaped like 
swans, couchant lions, shells, boats, and flowers. For 
the most part their occupants are dark-eyed Eoumanlan 
dames and damsels, enveloped to their dimpled chins in 
costly furs, and manifestly exhilarated by the swiftness 

p 2 



212 SLEDGE-BELLS. 

of motion and sharpness of the cold. Their joyons 
laughter rings out clearly through the thin pure air, 
and blends harmoniously with the " tintinnabulation of 
the bells, bells, bells." On the whole, the cheeriest of 
Eoumanian Christmas celebrations is, perhaps, a sleigh- 
race on the Chaussee, terminating in a deep draught of 
vmu caldu at the pavilion near the Eond Point. 



CHAPTER Til. 

LIFE IK BELGRADE. 

I HAD scarcely written down the above heading when 
the thought flashed across my inind that an apter and 
more veracious title for a chapter dealing with the more 
salient social characteristics of the Servian capital would 
be " Existence in Belgrade ;" for of " Life," in the con- 
ventional acceptation of that substantive (when headed 
by a capital L) commonly understood to comprehend 
hospitality, amusements, acquaintance with the arts, 
science, and literature, I have never yet been fortunate 
enough to diagnose any symptoms to speak of in that 
dismallest of deadly-dull cities. However, although my 
vists to Belgrade during the last quarter of a century 
have been frequent and of long duration, it is just pos- 
sible that the outward and visible signs of its social and 
intellectual vitality may have escaped my notice, and 
that it may be quite a rollicking place, teeming with 
recreations, infinitely various and extraordinarily enter- 
taining. In consideration, therefore, of these poten- 
tialities, the existence of which I doubt, but do not 
venture to deny, I will leave my heading as it stands, 
respectfully soliciting my readers to accept it cum grano 
salis. 



214 THE SERVIAN CAPITAL, 

Belgrade, only nineteen years ago an Ottoman strong- 
hold owning the dual sway of a Turkish Pasha, the 
governor of the fortress and its garrison, and of a Chris- 
tian Hospodar, vassal and tributary to the Padishah, is 
now the capital of a free and independent kingdom, 
blessed with parliamentary institutions, constitutional 
government, hereditary monarchy, a standing army., a 
national debt, and many other brilliant attributes of 
modern civilisation. It is lacking in some of the prac- 
tical benefits which, according to the doctrine of the 
" fitness of things," ought to be the concrete and logical 
consequences of boundless liberty and unfettered self- 
rule ; but, as far as mere theory is concerned, it is in 
every respect equal to Paris, London, or Vienna. With 
respect to such petty details, accessorial to health and 
comfort, as paving, lighting, drainage, and water-supply, 
it is about a century behind any average German pro- 
vincial town of reactionary tendencies say Stargard 
or Nassau, venerable burghs which the most ardently 
patriotic Teuton would scarcely choose to put forward 
as shining illustrations of urban progress. But in the 
matter of political emancipation it is indeed a favoured 
city; whilst the civil rights of its inhabitants are so 
extensive that it would be difficult to say where they 
begin or end. It may be alleged with perfect truthful- 
ness that Belgrade and its native population are admirably 
suited to one another. For all that or perhaps because 
of this complete mutual suitability Belgrade is a semi- 
barbarous town, or rather, overgrown village, as ugly 
as it is inconvenient, surpassingly dirty, sordid, uncom- 
fortable, and ill-administered. As an exhaustive excm- 



ASPECT OF BELGRADE. 215 

plification of administrative incompetence, ignorance, and 
inertia, of municipal shortsightedness and stupidity, of 
utter absence of governmental initiative or individual 
enterprise, it is probably unrivalled amongst European 
capitals. A tame tog eouchant, plentifully bemired, 
should be its crest, were it endowed with so respectable 
an attribute ; nor could a fitter motto be allotted to it 
than the Servian equivalent of the famous Circumlocution 
Office device " How Not to Do It." Considered as a 
place of residence, its disabilities are overwhelming, its 
undesirability without parallel. If this verdict be ob- 
jected to as extravagantly severe by any foreigner of 
respectable antecedents, be he diplomatist, engineer, or 
merchant, whom adverse destiny has compelled to sojourn 
for any length of time in the Servian capital, I will eat 
the present reigning King, Milan Obrenovich IV., jack- 
toots though he wears them uncommonly high and 
roomy epaulets, Grand Cross of the Takova and all, or 
perish miserably in the attempt ! 

Belgrade is a curiously straggling, up-and-down city, 
built upon a huge blunt rocky promontory that juts out 
into a waste of waters, just where Danube and Save are 
confluent. Two sides of the shelving bluffs covered by 
its steep, tortuous streets are, therefore, skirted by deep 
and swiftly flowing rivers, which, at certain seasons of 
the year, frequently overflow their banks and submerge 
the plains on the Hungarian shores of which, they con- 
stitute flie natural frontiers. During these inundations 
Belgrade, contemplated from the deck of a Save or Danube 
steamer, or from some rare vantage-point of dry land 
on the neighbouring territories of the so-called Servian 



216 SERVIAN ARCHITECTURE. 

and Croatian Banats, presents the aspect of an island 
city. Tlae outlines of the broad-backed cliff crowned by 
its forts, churches, and ruined minarets, and flanked on 
either face by its whitewashed, flat-roofed honses, are 
extremely bold and striking. A more picturesque site, 
indeed, could scarcely have been selected for a semi- 
oriental capital, one of Christendom's outlying bulwarks, 
destined by nature to become a great commercial em- 
porium, the terminus of a vast network of railways, and 
an important centre of rapidly developing civilisation. 
To an intelligent people, susceptible of aesthetic culture, 
and gifted even with those rudimentary instincts which, 
under careful training, seldom fail to engender good taste 
in their possessors, this admirable site could not fail to 
suggest countless opportunities for adding to its native 
attractions by the aid of graceful or stately domestic 
architecture, terrace-gardening, and massive public works 
judiciously erected upon salient points of the rugged 
promontory's crest and sides. When the Turks held 
Belgrade, the slender and elegant shafts of their numerous 
minarets and the glittering domes of their mosques 
supplied decorative features in plenty to the general 
aspect of the city. But since the Serbs have had their 
own way with their capital, emancipate from the control 
of Turkish canons of architectural taste, the mosques 
have all been levelled with the ground and the minarets 
have shared their fate all but two, one of which, in the 
centre of the upper town, is a fast crumbling ruin, whilst 
the other, situate on the parade-ground of the citadel, 
fronting the Konak, is kept in tolerable repair by reason 
of its utility as a military look-out, commanding views 



BELGRADE STBEETS. 217 

of both, river- courses and of Hungarian territory for many 
a mile to the northward, eastward, and westward. 

The extraordinary and painfully discomfiting surface 
irregularities of Belgrade are, of course, attributable to 
peculiarities of its topographical situation. It covers 
both slopes of a steep and rugged hill, a circumstance 
which condemns its inhabitants and the strangers within 
its gates, when taking their walks abroad, to pass the 
chief part of their time in climbing up one precipitous 
street as soon as they have got to the bottom of another 
of precisely the same description. Indeed, there is but 
one thoroughfare, worthy of the name, in the whole city, 
that is tolerably level the Terazia, a broad highway 
about a quarter of a mile in length, conveying the 
impression to the foreigner who beholds it for the first 
time, that it would have liked to be a boulevard, but had 
been obliged to give up that aspiration through intrinsic 
and incurable stoniness. I may mention parenthetically 
that the Prince's Konak, or Palace, the Ministry of 
Foreign Affairs, and several of the largest private houses 
in Belgrade, are situate upon the Terazia, which owes 
its comparative superficial levelness to the fact that it 
happens to run along the narrow plateau forming the 
summit of the huge rock, one base of which is washed 
by the waters of Danube and the other by those of 
Save. All the streets, including the fashionable Terazia, 
are paved the word is utterly inappropriate to the pro- 
cess applied to their surface, but I am at a loss for any 
other less inaccurately descriptive of its treatment in a 
manner eminently calculated to point to the inference 
that the Servian Board of Works, or at least tke Belgrade 



218 B1LGEABE PAYING. 

Municipal Paving Committee, must Tbe exclusively 
composed of "wily bootmakers and cunning chiropo- 
dists. 

It is more than probable, judging by the gloom of the 
expression prevalent amongst the forbidding physiog- 
nomies of the native Belgradians, that this sort of paving 
system is productive of a settled melancholy in the 
populations afflicted by it, and tends, moreover, to in- 
durate the character. Paraphrasing Shakespeare, it may 
be said that " the man who hath no comfort in his sole 
is fit for treason, stratagem, and spoil ; " and it is but 
common charity to ascribe the truculent scowl that is 
the leading facial characteristic of the " sons of the soil " 
(more correctly " of the pavement") to the demoralis- 
ing effect upon their characters of the chronic agonies 
suffered by their " poor feet." The Belgrade pavement is 
supremely favourable to the rapid growth of corns ; but 
these callosities are seldom coincident with amiability of 
temper in those condemned to wear them. Nor are 
sprained ankles, another profuse outcome of the Servian 
trottoirs, especially conducive to benevolence of feeling. 
Consequently, as every living soul in the Czillak capital 
is more or less a martyr to corns or dislocations, or both, 
owing to the maleficent pavement, Belgradian faces are 
apt to impress the observant foreigner with a sense of 
insecurity, as far as his personal property is concerned, 
which serves to distract his attention from the poignant 
anguish endured by his own toes and ankles as he 
stumbles along the Belgrade streets. The Belgradians 
may be kindly, cheerful, and honest people. All I can 
say, from personal observation, is that they do not look 



LOCAL COSTUMES. 219 

it ; as how should they, taking the malignity of their 
pavement into fair and equitable consideration ? 

Belgrade streets, however, though utterly unsuitable 
to pedestrian locomotion, are by no means devoid of the 
picturesque element, chiefly supplied to them by the 
lower classes of their frequenters and inhabitants, who 
have hitherto adhered with touching conservatism to 
their national costume, long since forgone by the bu- 
reaucracy as well as by the wealthier merchants and 
tradesmen of the capital. The dress worn by nine out 
of ten differs but little from that of the provincial Turk, 
and is practically identical with that worn by the 
Mahomedan Bosniac or Herzegovinian. It consists of a 
loose dark-blue braided jacket, worn over a white or 
blue cotton shirt a broad red worsted sash, wound 
tightly several times round the diaphragmatic region 
baggy blue breeches, opanJce or leg-guards tied on with 
strips of untanned leather heavy blucher boots, and 
a dark crimson fez with a bright blue tassel. The 
Servians are for the most part big and burly, though 
clumsily built fellows, and this costume, in which they 
are quite at their ease, becomes them much better than 
the coats and trousers of Western civilisation. I cannot 
conscientiously accord the smallest tribute of admiration 
to the women's dresses, as a rule hideous in shape and 
dull in colour. The head-gear alone is pretty, consisting 
of a coloured handkerchief intertwined neatly amongst 
the hair-plaits, which, besides, are frequently adorned 
with gold and silver coins in a highly decorative manner. 
But the rest of the toilette is ugly and ungraceful A 
small cloth jacket, armless and incapable of meeting in 



220 SERVIAN WOMEN. 

front, is worn over a chemise of cambric or linen, 
crossed over the chest by a many-folded muslin scarf, 
which is tied or otherwise fastened behind the waist. 
Beneath this scarf and below the bust, which rests on or 
hangs over its upper edge, is a velvet or cloth tightly- 
fitting bodice, the lower moiety of which is hidden by a 
heavy, straight, down-falling stuff petticoat, seldom 
lively in hue, and reaching to the ankles. Convenient 
as this costume undoubtedly is for wet-nursing, it is as 
unquestionably extremely unbecoming to ninety-nine 
girls and women out of a hundred. Servian dames are 
apt to become conspicuously corpulent whilst still in the 
prime of life, and even young girls are generally more 
exuberantly formed than is consistent with attractive- 
ness in a display of their pectoral charms so lavish and 
uncompromising that it cannot fail to draw particular 
attention to that which is too frequently let us say, 
superfluous. Beauty of face or figure, moreover, is 
curiously rare amongst Servian women, and nothing 
short of the exceptional, in both respects, will carry off 
so inartistic and, if I may venture to use the term, pro- 
vocative a dress. Large hands and feet, thick joints, 
rough-hewn features, and sallow complexions are the 
rule with the sex which, in Servia, it were somewhat 
less than veracious to qualify as " fair." The Servian 
" ministering angels" are decidedly massive. What- 
ever good looks they may possess in early girlhood 
rapidly fade away or are obliterated by premature 
embonpoint; for they marry phenomenally young, and 
are frequently grandmothers at six or seven-and-twenty, 
by which time they are, with rare exceptions, wrinkled, 



PASHA AND IIOSPODAE. 221 

yellow, and shapeless, whilst their husbands are still 
comely and stalwart young men. 

When I first became initiated in the manners and 
customs of the Servian capital, during the winter of 
1865-6, Belgrade owned the sway of two several and 
distinct rulers, the Christian Hospodax occupying the 
Czillak throne, as it were, by Imperial Ottoman license, 
and the Moslem Pasha entrusted by the Padishah with 
the command of the Turkish military forces at that time 
occupying several strongholds of strategic importance in 
the Principality. The chief of these fortresses was the 
historically famous citadel of Belgrade, one of whose 
many sieges is immortalised in the annals of English 
Opera. Strongly garrisoned by picked Turkish troops, 
this powerful fortress was the seat of Ottoman authority 
on Servian territory. In a huge yellow Konak, or 
palace, standing upon the parade-ground at the very 
summit of the broad bluff described in a previous chap- 
ter, and commanding an extensive view of both rivers, 
resided All Eiza Pasha, the then military governor of 
Belgrade, in all the pomp and splendour appropriate to 
his high office. His establishment was complete, com- 
prising an extensive hareem, duly guarded by eunuchs, 
the proper complement of mollahs and imams for regular 
performance of divine service at the citadel mosque, 
pipe-bearers, ferashes, accomplished cooks and confec- 
tioners, and skilled compounders of creaming, perfumed 
coffee, Ali Eiza was a kindly, jolly old Mahomedan 
gentleman, faithfully observant of the tradition of 
Turkish hospitality, by no means averse to moderate 
draughts of the " sparkling sherbet " known amongst 



222 ALI BIZA PASHA. 

Giaours by the name of champagne, and shrewdly 
suspected by the officers of his staff of chronic submis- 
sion to the process of hen-pecking, as performed upon 
him in the privacy of the zenana by his khanoum, or 
leading wife, an old lady of masterful disposition and 
variable temper. His popularity in Belgrade was extra- 
ordinary, taking into consideration the circumstance that 
he was the living personification of a foreign yoke 
extremely distasteful to the Servian nation, and he con- 
trived to keep upon excellent terms not only with 
Prince Michael Obrenovich, at that time the reigning 
Hospodar, but with such uncompromising Servian 
patriots as Garashianin, Marinovieh, and Blasnavaz, 
Cabinet Ministers well known to be bent upon ridding 
their country of Turkish suzerainty by any means, 
fair or foul, that might be found available. Belgrade, 
of course, was practically at Ali Eiza's mercy ; his 
mighty ordnance commanded every portion of the city, 
which, as its inhabitants were fully aware, he could 
level with the dust in a few hours if provoked to hostile 
action by any rebellious conduct on their part. But he 
conducted himself publicly with such excellent dis- 
cretion, and was so unaffectedly amiable and jovial in 
private life, that the Belgradians could not help liking 
him, though they hated the government he represented. 
The other ruler of Servia, Prince Michael, third of his 
dynasty, lived in a modest little house, dignified with 
the title of Konak, on the Terazia the same dwelling, 
considerably enlarged and improved, however, during 
the present reign, in which Ms successor, Milan Obreno- 
vich IV., now resides. His Highness, one of the most 



PRIXCE MICHAEL III. 223 

sensible, intelligent, and honest gentlemen ever doomed 
by adverse destiny to devote Ms life to the service of an 
ignorant, treacherous, and bloodthirsty race, kept up no 
State whatsoever, but spent the whole of his time and 
the greater part of his official income in carrying out 
benevolent projects for the advancement of his subjects' 
material prosperity. Belgrade, twenty years ago, was a 
nest of native and foreign intrigue, in which many a 
brood of plots were hatched, not to speak of those that 
were addled or prematurely sate upon by some per- 
spicuous diplomatist. The Prince was heavily weighted 
by his obligations at home and his engagements abroad. 
His countrymen were incessantly egging him on to 
throw off the hated Turkish yoke, under pain of forcible 
dethronement or assassination; Russian agents were 
never weary of tempting him to rebel against his 
suzerain ; and he lay under suspicion, on the part of the 
"Western Powers, of intriguing by turns with Yienna 
and St. Petersburg towards the attainment of national 
aims which were regarded with absolute disapproval by 
the Sultan's allies, at that time bent upon preserving the 
territorial integrity of the Ottoman Empire. In reality, 
he kept aloof, as strictly as his Ministers would allow 
him so to do, from all the plots and machinations of 
which he was generally believed to be the Head Centre 
was steadfastly faithful to the allegiance he had sworn 
when his election to the Hospodariat was confirmed by 
the Sublime Porte, and deeply absorbed in the fulfilment 
of his princely duties. I well remember one morning, 
during my first mission to Belgrade, in the course of a 
long and interesting conversation with His Highness, 



224 PRINCE MICHAEL III. 

drawing Ms attention to certain reports that liad been 
circulated in Parisian and Tiennese political circles 
respecting some projected encroachments upon Turkish 
prerogative about to be (so ran the story) attempted by 
himself at the instigation of the Eussian Government. 
The Prince listened to me attentively for some time, a 
faint smile playing round the corners of his mouth, and 
then, laying his hand on my arm, with a word of polite 
excuse for the interruption, rose and led me to a 
window of his study from which a view of part of the 
town could be obtained. "Do me the pleasure," he 
observed, " of looking for a few seconds at those streets 
and at the people walking about them. They are not 
paved you cannot call that irregular crust of angular 
stones paving ; they are not drained, nor are the houses 
that overlook them; at night they are lighted by a 
few wretched petroleum lamps, just sufficient to make 
darkness visible. The people stumbling painfully over 
their shameful surface are illiterate, poor, and for the 
most part miserable. And yet this is my capital, in 
every respect superior to the provincial towns of Servia, 
which again are models of civilised comfort compared 
to the villages in which the greater number of my 
countrymen are destined to abide from the day of their 
birth to that of their death. Can you, who know 
how I have been educated and, I believe, do me the 
honour to credit me with some intelligence and patriot- 
ism, seriously bring yourself to believe that I am bending 
such energies as God has endowed me with to pur- 
suing mere shadows of so-called national indepen- 
dence and personal aggrandisement, when I have but 



PRINCE MICHAEL III. 225 

to look out of my window, thus, to see my real duties 
spread out plainly before my very eyes? Is It not 
more reasonable to suppose that I busy myself with 
endeavouring to ameliorate my people's hard lot, to 
increase their well-being, and to bring, by degrees, the 
blessings of civilisation within their reach, than to filch 
from the Sultan, by crooked and dishonourable means, 
one tatter after another of the ragged suzerainty he is 
still entitled to exercise over Servia? Are our griev- 
ances so insufferable that they should constrain me to 
act in a manner repugnant to my sense of honour as a 
sovereign and a gentleman? We are not independent 
of Turkey, it is true. Are we, as yet, fit to be so ? We 
are under obligations to pay annual tribute to the Porte. 
For years past I have been unable to induce the Skupt- 
china to vote the sums required for that purpose, and su 
the tribute has remained unpaid. Turkish garrisons 
occupy our fortresses ; but do they levy any taxes or 
contributions upon the people ? Wo ; on the contrary, 
they spend much money amongst us, especially here, 
in Belgrade. I wish them away I should not be a 
true Servian, else but they do my subjects no harm, 
and do not interfere in the least with the native govern- 
ment of the country. Let me assure you, once for all, 
whatever you may hear to the contrary at the Con- 
sulates and from my political enemies, that my intellect 
and will, such as they are, are entirely devoted to pro- 
moting the real interests of my compatriots, not to 
remedying imaginary wrongs or striving to attain 
delusive goals; and that I turn a deaf ear to many 
seductive suggestions, by adopting which I cannot 
VOL. II. Q. 



226 PRINCE MICH1EL III. 

doubt, alas! so misguided are some of the leading 
spirits in my native land I should largely increase 
my popularity. But I consent to be misjudged at 
home, if only foreign Powers will suffer me to follow 
the path of duty I haye traced out for myself; and I 
beg you to represent that as my fixed purpose to all 
those influential personages interested in the fortunes of 
Servia with whom you may happen to be brought into 
contact when you leave this country." 

These striking remarks of the worthy and unde- 
servedly luckless Michael Obrenovich, every assertion 
contained in which has been fully borne out by subse- 
quent events, could not then be published, despite their 
great intrinsic interest, for reasons only too obvious at 
the time of their utterance. In fact, their publication 
would probably have cost him his life at the hands of 
certain ultra-patriots, who even then held him to be a 
tame reactionary, and were engaged in a conspiracy 
with the supporters of the rival dynasty, which 
conspiracy culminated in the Prince's barbarous murder 
two years and a half later, I took notes of them, how- 
ever, within an hour of their utterance, and their purport 
was communicated confidentially to the British Govern- 
ment by Mr. Longworth, then H.M.'s Diplomatic 
Agent at Belgrade, with the effect, as I have reason, to 
believe, of considerably modifying the official view 
thitherto entertained in Downing Street respecting 
Prince Michael and his projects. The impression they 
made upon our representative, a staunch Turkophile 
but warm personal admirer of the Prince's many virtues 
and talents, was a very deep one ; and I have deemed 



BELGRADE SOCIETY, 



227 



them sufficiently remarkable, though emanating from a 
man who was laid in Ms grave eighteen years ago, to 
merit reproduction in this place. 

Life in Belgrade under the mixed reign, if I may call 
it so, of Ali Eiza Pasha and of the never sufficiently to 
be lamented Prince Michael, was dull and monotonous 
in the extreme. The only society worthy of the name 
was to be found of evenings at the Consulates^ the 
chiefs of which, having a diplomatic character, received 
natives and foreigners of distinction pretty frequently 7 
but altogether sans cerhnonie^ in their salons. These 
hospitalities were never returned by the Servian 
Ministers, and the only really wealthy Belgradian, a 
salt-merchant named Misha, having married into the 
family of the pretender, Karageorgevich, was a person 
rather to be avoided than courted. The Prince himself, 
separated, through her wanton infidelity to him, from a 
wife who was one of the most beautiful women in 
Europe, and whom he adored to the end of his days 
despite the vileness of her conduct, lived in almost un- 
broken seclusion. Once or twice during each winter lie 
gave a State dinner^ followed by a reception, to which 
the members of the Corps Consulaire and the Cabinet 
Ministers, military officers of high rank, parliamen- 
tary officials, and ecclesiastical dignitaries, were in- 
vited. But the Servian dames, no matter how ex- 
alted the official position of their husbands, never, 
with one or two distinguished exceptions, sat at the 
Prince's table. Gathered round the doors of his dining- 
room, they waited impatiently until, by rising, he gave 
Ms male guests the signal for retiring to coffee and 

Q2 



228 THE PRINCE'S RECEPTIONS. 

cigarettes in the adjacent fumoir, and then were admitted 
to the yacated apartment, where they made a clean 
sweep of the fruits, sweets, and bonbons, filling their 
pockets with everything edible upon which they could 
lay their hands. After concluding this raid with an 
exhaustiveness more creditable to their appetites than to 
their breeding, those amongst them who had been 
honoured by a special invitation to "spend the evening 
at the Konak " trooped off to the principal drawing-room, 
where they were regaled with Eussian tea, pasticcieria, 
and ices, until the gentlemen presently joined them. 
There was no music or dancing at these simple and 
somewhat patriarchal entertainments, which invariably 
terminated before eleven o'clock, by which hour the 
kind, sad amphitryon had withdrawn to his study, per- 
haps accompanied by his trusted friend and councillor, 
Grarashianin, tallest of all European statesmen, there to 
peruse despatches received from abroad, or consider 
some foreign proposition, or, in a word, to labour in his 
country's service until an early hour in the morning. 

From the Kalemeydan to Topchidereh is barely two 
miles, one fifth of which distance must be penitentially 
performed over the rough boulders and petrified kidney 
potatoes of the Terazia itself, and a telescopic series of 
streets, branching out of its western extremity, which 
grow small by degrees and beautifully less as they 
approach the former glacis of the fortress, now converted 
into a public garden liberally planted with limes and 
beeches. The remaining four-fifths consist of a good 
metalled road, running parallel with the right bank 
of the Save for more than half its length. In a 



MILITARY MUSIC, 229 

shady nook of the Kalemeydan the band of whatever 
regiment may happen for the time being to be garri- 
soning the citadel performs, throughout the summer 
months, during the afternoons of Sundays and saints' 
days. As the Greek Orthodox Calendar may confi- 
dently be reckoned upon for a supply of saints averaging 
at least three per diem for the three hundred and sixty- 
five days of the year, one Is seldom disappointed in the 
matter of hearing the band, however casually one may 
stroll up to the Ealemeydan between five and seven P.M. 
from the first of May to the thirtieth of September. It 
would be somewhat difficult, from a musical point of view, 
to define the exact class of noise most closely resembling 
the sounds resulting from a Servian military band's 
executive feats. To native ears these remarkable 
achievements teem with melody, tender or inspiriting, 
and with harmonies of the most enchanting character. 
But foreigners, trained to the oral apprehension of 
"Western melodic forms and harmonic sequences, are apt 
to be hopelessly gravelled by the Servian compositions, 
as well as by the local manner of their interpretation. 
The national airs, if airs they be, are difficult to grasp, 
chiefly from the circumstance that they lack coherency, 
and consist, so to speak, of a number of random notes 
strung together anyhow and making up a perplexing 
total that can scarcely be said to exhibit an intelligible 
beginning, middle, or end. The method of their render- 
ing is apparently of a no less happy-go-lucky character 
than that of their construction. Each individual bands- 
man seems to be playing his instrument upon personal 
principles, nobly emancipate from the conventional 



230 TOPCHIDEREH. 

trammels of orchestral association. He chooses his own 
time and key, just as they happen to suggest themselves 
to his fancy, and sticks to or varies them in obedience to 
inward impulses that no man save himself can account 
for. The result of such inspirations 3 expressed through 
wood and brass by forty or fifty of these fine spontaneous 
fellows, is extremely curious. But George Washington, 
who could not lie, was a very Ananias in comparison to 
the person, not of Servian birth, who should deliberately 
assert that the effect of these performances upon their 
foreign auditors is a pleasurable one. 

Topchidereh and the Kalemeydan are the alpha and 
omega of Servian out-door recreation. They have 
more than one characteristic in common. Both are 
open-air places of public resort, more or less tastefully 
laid out in flower-beds, shrubberies, gravel-walks, and 
plots of turf. Both are provided with mehanas^ or 
drinking-taveras, in which vast quantities of Pan9ova 
beer may be ingurgitated for the Servian equivalent of a 
few pence. Both are rendered attractive, or the reverse, 
according to taste, by musical marvels of the description 
above alluded to. Finally, both owe their horticultural 
adornments to the industry of convicts, who keep them 
in excellent order from one year's end to another, and 
the clank of whose chains, as they sweep the paths or 
water the lawns in gangs, linked together by one wrist 
and ankle apiece, is scarcely calculated to stimulate 
feelings of cheerful confidence in the timorous breast. 
There is something essentially Servian in the notion of 
utilising convict labour for the embellishment of the two 
fashionable promenades frequented by the best society of 



MILOSCH OBREXOYICH I. 231 

the capital, and of bringing the vilest malefactors of the 
country into immediate contact with the foreign Envoys 
and their families, as well as "with their native magnates,, 
who are bound to take their daily " constitutional ?? In 
the gardens of Topchidereh or the Kalemeydan, for the 
simple reason that there Is no other spot in or near 
Belgrade to which they can repair for that purpose. Not 
less strikingly illustrative of Servian views touching the 
" fitness of things" is the fact that, although the citadel 
of Belgrade is the chief pride of every patriot Czillak's 
heart, whilst the chateau of Topchidereh was the favour- 
ite residence of Milosch Obrenovich, the leading popu- 
lar hero of latter-day Servia and founder of the now 
reigning dynasty, both these historically interesting 
buildings have been ruthlessly turned into convict 
prisons. Milosch, originally a pig- driver, then a con- 
spirator against Black George, the first of the modern 
Servian Hospodars (whom he overthrew, took prisoner, 
and finally caused to be brutally murdered), and subse- 
quently Prince of Servia, built the Topchidereh Konak 
for his own special delectation, and was wont to inhabit 
it, even during the winter months, in preference to his 
town-house. He was a just and sagacious ruler of the 
people to whom he owed his elevation to princely rank 
and power ; but in private life he practised the seven 
deadly sins with genuine enthusiasm and infinite relish. 
If he evinced a marked preference for any of them in 
particular, it was for intemperance and incontinence ; but 
those who knew him most intimately have assured me 
that every description of vice "came natural " to Mm. 
Providence, moreover, had gifted him with a fine furious 



232 MEMORIALS OP MUBBER. 

temper that brooked no opposition, an indomitable will, 
and passions of unusual vigour and vivacity. These he 
delighted to indulge, to the very top of their bent, in 
his suburban retreat of Topchidereh, which accordingly 
was the scene of some uncommonly lively " high-jinks " 
whilst it harboured its original proprietor. 

The road to Topchidereh is a pretty one and, what is 
still more creditable to it, an instructive one, that is to 
say, to the intelligent and inquisitive foreigner desirous 
of obtaining insight into Servian manners and customs 
by judicious inquiry founded upon ocular observation. 
It will not fail to escape the notice of such a person, as 
he drives along that pleasant highway in some Consular 
acquaintance's open carriage, that the roadside is pro- 
fusely ornamented, at irregular intervals, by a consider- 
able number of plain black wooden crosses ; and in all 
probability this circumstance will at first suggest to him 
that the Servians, despite their ferocious aspect, must be 
endowed with a good deal of genuine religious feeling, 
inasmuch as they adorn even their country roads with 
so many emblems of Christianity. Curiosity, however, 
may prompt him as it did myself, under similar cir- 
cumstances to ask his guide, philosopher, and friend 
what may be the exact purpose or significance of all the 
crosses planted along either roadside? " Those black 
crosses ?" was the reply I received; " oh, they are set 
up to mark the spots upon which the corpses of murdered 
men have been found, and beneath them lie the remains 
whose discovery they commemorate. If you stay here a 
few weeks, and take your daily drive on the Topchidereh 
road, as you are doing now, ten to one you will see 



MEMORIALS OF MURDER. 233 

some poor wretch, being crammed Into a hole by the 
wayside, scarcely big enough to hold his carcase. "When 
anybody is assassinated here, the persons who happen to 
notice the corpse, as it lies on the road or elsewhere, take 
precious good care not to meddle with it, but go then- 
way, and, as a rale, say nothing to nobody' about 
what they have seen. There the body continues, there- 
fore, to lie sometimes for a couple of days and nights 
till some foreigner sees it, talks about it in Belgrade, and, 
through his loquacity, the fact of its being likely to 
become a nuisance reaches the knowledge of the police 
authorities. As soon as they come to know of it, they 
send out a gendarme with a spade and pick on his 
shoulder, in the direction of the murdered man. When 
the gendarme comes up to the corpse he proceeds, firstly, 
to turn out its pockets, secondly, to pull off its boots 
and jacket, and thirdly, to measure off its length 
ap[ roximatively with his spade. Haying ascertained, 
within an inch or two, how long it is, he then addresses 
himself to the digging of a hole large enough, or there- 
abouts, for the body's permanent accommodation. When 
he thinks the hole is deep enough, he thrusts the dead 
man into it, fills up with earth, and stamps all down to 
the level of the roadway ; next day he brings out one of 
these black crosses, and drives it into the freshly turned 
soil. That is the whole business. There is no useless 
trouble taken about identifying the corpse no inquisi- 
torial formalities, or bother of any sort. Why should 
there be? say the Servians. The man is dead. No 
inquest, or other fussy procedure, will bring him to life. 
All that is necessary is to put him safely under ground, 



234 UNCEREMONIOUS SEPULTURE. 

and mark his place of interment with, a religious symbol. 
You will see for yourself," thus concluded my inform- 
ant, the then British Diplomatic Agent in Servia. A 
few days later I did see for myself. A murdered Aus- 
trian sailor was undergoing the operation above described 
at the hands, or rather at the feet, of a gigantic gen- 
darme, not two hundred yards outside Belgrade on the 
Topchidereh road, as I drove by in Mr. Longworth's 
landau. The gendarme had miscalculated the length of 
the grave, which was nearly a foot short for its tenant 
(whom he had contrived to squeeze into it by main 
force), and was stamping with all his might upon some 
still protruding portions, in order to save himself the 
trouble of digging out a few more spadesful of earth. 



CHAPTER Till. 

SERVIAN PRINCES AND THE TRAGEDY OF TOPCHIDEREH, 

OF the two rival families, members of which have alter- 
nately ruled the roost in Servia since the end of the last 
century, it may be said with absolute truth that both 
were admirable specimens of the savage race from which 
they sprung, and faithful exponents of the manners and 
morals current then as now in their native country. I 
use the words manners and morals for lack of English 
substantives to express their exact converse. The 
founders of these families, represented at the present 
moment by King Milan Obrenovich, the reigning sove- 
reign of Servia, and Prince Peter Karageorgevich, an 
exiled " loafer" resident at Pesth, were, considered from 
a social point of view, " persons of no account." Milosch 
was a pig-driver. Kara George was a practical patriot, 
of the brigand variety. In more than one respect these 
remarkable men resembled one another closely as, in- 
deed, did all the choicer spirits of Servia some eighty or 
ninety years ago. Bold, unscrupulous, ignorant, astute, 
and treacherous, they were unexceptionable national 
types. Milosch was a thought the more cunning of the 
two ; George surpassed his wilier rival in fierce, brutal 
courage. Neither of them owned a family name. Milosch^ 



236 TWO SERVIAN DYNASTIES, 

when lie first came to tie front in Servian liome politics, 
assumed the surname of Obrenovich, to which he had 
not the least right, for he was the son, by a second 
marriage, of a woman whose first husband's name was 
Obren. The syllable " vich," in all Sclav languages, 
means " the son of," and is tacked on to Christian names 
in order to indicate that the bearers are the sons of 
somebody as Petrovich, the son of Peter, Jovanovich, 
the son of John, &c. The Sclav vich, in fact, corres- 
ponds to the Hebrew ben, the Welsh op, the Scottish 
mac and the Irish 0\ Now Milosch was anything but 
the son of Obren, so his assumption of that worthy's 
name as his patronymic, duly to be transmitted to his 
descendants, was, to say the least of it, fraudulent. On 
the other hand, Black George, the ancestor of the Kara- 
georgevichs, earned his prefix of " Kara " from his ene- 
mies, the Turks, partly by the amazing darkness of his 
deeds and partly by the abnormal duskiness of his com- 
plexion. He was that sort of masterful and impulsive 
person whom it would be delicate flattery to describe as 
a bloody-minded tyrant and ferocious assassin. On one 
occasion, some story unfavourable to his mother's repu- 
tation for ^chastity having reached his ears, he cut off 
the old lady's head with his own hands, and set it in a 
beehive, not with a view to nourishing the bees, but in 
sheer wanton barbarity. Later on, during a skirmish 
with the Osmanli troops, in which his father received a 
wound that disabled him from retreating before the 
victorious foe, Kara George drew his pistol and shot his 
limping parent through the heart. Having thus, by 
deliberately murdering both the authors of Ms being, 



KARA GEOBGE. 237 

sufficiently proved 'to his admiring compatriots what 
manner of man he was, he completed his claims to their 
suffrages for the Hospodarship by "butchering in cold 
blood every Turkish prisoner taken by his " patriot 
bands 55 in the course of a long and tedious insurrec- 
tionary war, and was eventually elected by acclamation 
to that exalted post, the Ottoman Government being 
only too glad to confirm his appointment, as the next 
best means of keeping so truculent a bandit quiet to that 
of cutting off his head. The Porte would infinitely have 
preferred the latter method of dealing with him ; but 
Kara George was not to be caught by force or strategy 
so the sagacious children of Islam installed him in 
office as a vassal of the Padishah and, as soon as he was 
fairly settled down upon his new throne, opened negotia- 
tions with Ms local rival in order to get rid of him 
permanently. 

In Milosch, falsely called Obrenovich, Turkey found 
an apt instrument wherewith to achieve her objects, and 
a good deal more, in fact, than she desired to effect. 
That stalwart and ambitious swineherd was a man of 
great natural capacity, totally uneducated, but gifted 
with diplomatic instinct, fervid eloquence, and a faculty 
for organisation of which his redoubtable adversary was 
altogether devoid. Secretly assisted by Turkish gold, he 
conspired successfully against Black George and over- 
threw him. Later on, that irrepressible parricide con- 
trived, in his turn, to oust Milosch from Hospodariat 
and country and to reinstate himself upon the Servian 
throne. Milosch narrowly escaped capture, which he 
well knew to be a convertible term with death, and fled 



238 MILOSCH. 

to Yienna, where lie abode, unremittingly plotting with 
Ms partisans in Servia and the Banat through confi- 
dential agents, until the moment appeared ripe for his 
reappearance on his native soil. His machinations were 
to a certain extent countenanced by the Austrian as well 
as the Ottoman Government, Black George, whilst in 
power, having proved himself an altogether intolerable 
neighbour to the Powers on both Servian frontiers. To 
be brief, Milosch organised a general rising of his ad- 
herents ; putting himself at their head, he encountered 
Eara George in the field and vanquished him, the Black 
Enes surrendering himself a prisoner of war upon honour- 
able conditions. Milosch took a solemn oath upon the 
crucifix to hold his captive's life sacred, and to accord 
him kindly treatment throughout the remainder of his 
natural existence. He kept his oath in the following 
characteristic manner. 

The founder of the Obrenovich dynasty, whilst he 
ruled Ms savage subjects with a rod of iron, and was 
indefatigable during the hours of the day in personally 
superintending the State affairs of his Principality, made 
a point of never denying himself any physical indulgence 
which his commanding position enabled him to procure. 
In a barbaric sort of a way, he was an eminent volup- 
tuary something coarse in Ms tastes, and rough and 
ready in his methods of ministering to them, but, on the 
whole, conspicuously successful in conducting his plea- 
sures so as never to incur the self-reproach of having 
failed to gratify any passion or caprice suggested to him 
by his animal instincts. A voracious eater and potent 
drinker, he was wont to celebrate nocturnal orgies at his 



MILOSCH. 239 

suburban villa of TopcMclereli, the remembrance of which 
Gargantuesque festivities still lingers in the minds of some 
venerable Servian patriots, admitted to share the Prince's 
revelry at a time when their own capacities for the con- 
sumption of barbecued pig and plum-brandy were un- 
abated by the inroads of time, but who do not hesitate 
to confess that Milosch could eat and drink down the 
best of them thirty years ago, though he was then an 
elderly man, whilst they were in the prime of life. 

One of his most intimate and trusted friends and 
councillors Gospodin Garashianin, then Prime Mini- 
ster of Servia told me, twenty-two years ago, a 
curious little family story, happily illustrative of the 
recklessness with which the grim old Hospodar every 
now and anon gave rein to Ms criminal impulses. 
His Excellency, chatting one afternoon with me upon 
the secret history of Milosch's reign, observed, "You 
have doubtless noticed that my wife is lame of one leg. 
Shall I tell you how she became so? Thirty years 
ago I was to Milosch what I am now (1865) to his son. 
I had not long married, and my wife was a very hand- 
some young woman, to whom I was passionately attached, 
We were the Hospodar' s guests at Topchidereh, Ms 
summer palace. Had I been his brother he could not 
have treated me with more demonstrative affection and 
consideration. One day he charged me with a message 
to the Skuptschina, then in session at Eragujevacz. 
Of course I obeyed Ms commands. My wife, who was 
cMef lady-in-waiting to the Princess, remained In the 
palace. Our apartments were on the second floor, facing 
the flower-garden. "Within four-and-twenty hours of my 



240 MILOSCH. 

departure Milosch roused my wife from sleep by knocking 
at her bedroom door and demanding entrance. Although 
all but terrified out of her wits, she refused to open the 
door, whereupon he burst it in with his shoulder and 
rushed towards the bed. She, however, had risen and 
thrown open the double lattice of the window, which 
reached to the floor. As he advanced towards her with 
outstretched hands, she sprang out into the air without 
an instant's hesitation, and, falling heavily to the ground 
from a height of nearly forty feet, snapped her right 
thigh-bone in twain. It was badly set by a clumsy army 
surgeon, and I returned from Kragujevacz a few days 
later to find her lamed for life. What could I do ? I 
might have killed him and no one would have blamed 
me no, not he himself, for he was fully conscious that 
he had violated the most sacred obligations of friendship 
and hospitality, and that his life belonged to me if I 
chose to take it. But I loved my country, and knew 
only too well that no other man, save Milosch, was 
capable of guiding it through the sea of trouble then 
surrounding it to a comparatively safe harbour. So I 
not only spared him, but continued to serve him faith- 
fully to the last hour of his life. Nor did I lose his 
respect by abstaining from a well-merited vengeance, for 
he appreciated the motives that prompted my sacrifice ; 
and ever after, when my wife's name was mentioned in 
his presence, he would say, with a sardonic chuckle, 
* Yes, yes, she is a noble matron ; in fact, she is the 
only absolutely virtuous woman I ever came across in 
Servia. 5 " 

Shortly after the above characteristic incident, Milosch 



A TRAGICAL MGHTMAKE. 241 

held revel one night at Xopehidereh until an unusually 
late hour, surrounded by a few of Ms chosen cronies of 
both sexes. At supper he partook immoderately of 
slightly underdone roast pork, his favourite food, and 
washed down that indigestible pabulum with unusually 
deep draughts of slievovizza (the "daughter of the 
plum"), a fiery national tipple much affected by the 
hard-headed Hospodar in his hours of relaxation. 

Upon what trifles may depend the fate of a hero ! Full 
of swineflesh and ardent spirits, Milosch went to bed that 
night in a peculiarly pleasant frame of mind; but, as 
might not unreasonably have been anticipated under the 
circumstances, Ephialtes soon perched upon his breast, 
and there sate heavily, hatching dreadful dreams, which 
ran riot in the fevered brain of the dyspepsia-stricken 
sleeper. Three times running between midnight and 
daybreak a terrible vision broke his slumbers. It seemed 
to him that his implacable foe, Black George, stood by 
his bedside with drawn kandjar, in act to plunge the 
gleaming weapon into his breast, and that he himself, 
paralysed by affright, was unable to raise an arm where- 
with to ward off the impending stab. At the termination 
of the third edition of this gruesome dream Milosch 
awoke, bathed in cold sweat, his scant hair standing on 
end. It was just at the dawn of day. He called to the 
body-servant who always slept across the threshold of his 
bedchamber, and commanded him instantly to summon 
the aide-de-camp on duty. Whilst awaiting the advent 
of that officer, he hastily wrote a few lines to the Com- 
mandant of Semendria, in a casemate of which fortress 
Kara George was then confined. "When the aide-de- 

VOL. II. E 



242 A TRAGICAL NIGHTMARE. 

camp, only half awake, entered the room, Milosch handed 
to Mm a sealed paper, with the words "Bide to Semendria 
without drawing bridle, save to change horses. Give this 
to the Commandant. Within ten minutes of receiving it 
he will deliver to you Kara George's head, which, you 
will bring to me immediately. Go ! " 

Milosch' s barbarous order, the outcome of a mere 
nightmare, was obeyed to the letter. The deposed Prince 
had just dined and was smoking a chibouk with his post- 
prandial coffee, when his custodian entered his prison, 
attended by four soldiers, who seized Black George with- 
out a syllable of warning and threw him down upon the 
floor with his face to the earth. Then one man knelt 
upon his back, and two others gripped his arms, whilst 
the fourth hacked off his head with a heavy yataghan. 
In less time than Milosch had prescribed for the perpe- 
tration of this atrocious murder, the ex-Hospodar's head 
was handed to the officer commissioned to take charge 
of it; and a few hours later it was laid at Milosch 
Obrenovich's feet, who smiled grimly as he recognised 
the ghastly lineaments of his old rival, and muttering, 
" From thee, at least, I am safe ! " rewarded his mes- 
senger of blood with a handful of ducats. I tell this 
grisly tale as it was told to me by one of Milosch 5 s most 
distinguished friends and companions, who had continued 
to render him faithful and inestimable service to the 
day of his death, and who, whilst frankly condemning 
Milosch' & cruelty and breach of faith in causing the 
assassination of Kara George, always spoke of his fierce 
old master as " the truest of Servian patriots, to whom 
his countrymen yet unborn would owe for all time to 



AS A BULER* 243 

come an inextinguishable debt of gratitude." As a 
matter of fact, Hilosch ruled Servia wisely and bene- 
ficially. He was a despot, dealing out justice according 
to Ms lights In a sudden and heavy-handed way, pecu- 
liarly suitable to the Ignorant, stiff-necked, vengeance- 
loving people submitted to his sway. The Czlllaks were 
mortally afraid of him, lie therefore enjoyed their 
unbounded respect. Those who owned comely wives or 
daughters kept them carefully out of Ms sight during 
Ms periodical tours In the provinces unless. Indeed, 
they wished to obtain some special favour or boon at his 
hands, when they would not Infrequently bring feminine 
attractions to bear upon him, seldom unsuccessfully. And 
when at last lie died peacefully in his bed, full of years 
and honours, Ms people mourned Ms loss with unmis- 
takable sincerity. He left two sons, the elder of whom 
only survived Mm a short time, and left no mark upon 
Servian Mstory. The younger reigned under the title of 
Michael Obrenovich III. I subjoin the particulars of Ms 
barbarous assassination, as related to me by two of the 
persons who witnessed It. 

The gardens of Topchidereh, as I mentioned before, 
constitute the chief fashionable lounge and afternoon 
rendezvous of Belgrade Society. They consist of two 
sections, upon a sort of debateable ground between wMch 
stands the summer palace built by Milosch Obrenovich 
shortly after he acquired the Topchidereh estate, and 
subsequently the favourite residence of himself and his 
successors upon the Servian throne. Approaching the 
Konak from the Belgrade main road the first section 
entered by your carriage Is that fronting the house. In 

2 



244 TOPCHIDEREH GROUNDS. 

it are situate flower-gardens, forcing-houses, pavilions, 
terraces, and fountains, all belonging to the so-called 
" foreign pleasure-grounds," created by Prince Michael, 
with the aid of skilled Yiennese landscape-gardeners, 
upon the model of one of his favourite youthful haunts 
the Imperial enclosure at Schonbrunn. Nearly in a 
line with the left wing of the konak is a huge mehana, 
or inn, in which excellent Austrian beer and certain 
rough-and-ready eatables of local popularity such as 
fresh caviare spread an inch thick upon slips of brown 
bread, pickled fish and goat's -milk cheese are re- 
tailed, as well as good old brown slievovizza, a whole- 
some if somewhat fiery dram native to the Principality." 
Facing this rude hostelry is a large square place 
upon which carriages remain drawn up whilst their 
owners take constitutionals at a snaiPs pace in the 
winding walks, admirably gravelled and kept in perfect 
order by gangs of leg-ironed convicts, or investigate the 
family arrangements of the million or so of frogs that 
inhabit the ornamental waters of Topchidereh, where 
they spend their time chiefly in vocal exercises, only 
interrupted when the band plays a circumstance from 
which it may be inferred that Servian music is to their 
taste, as, indeed, it may well be. The other section of 
Topchidereh grounds commences immediately behind the 
mehana, and, to lovers of the picturesque, is far more 
attractive than the artificial parterres and clipped shrub- 
beries of Prince MichaePs somewhat formal pleasaunce. 
In Topchidereh Park, Nature has, or had when I last 
strolled through its precincts, been left a good deal to 
herself. Beyond the planting of some avenues of stately 



TOPCHIDEKEH PARK. 245 

trees, the hand of man has done but little to enhance 
the wild charms of the scene. About four hundred yards 
down the broad avenue entered from the palace garden, 
a vast high cover, enclosed in lofty wooden fencing, 
abuts on the pathway, which it skirts for a considerable 
distance. This cover, in Prince MichaePs time, was 
plentifully stocked with large and small four-footed 
game ; and the leafy trees that fringe its margin afford 
such an agreeable shade to pedestrians during the fierce 
afternoon heats of a Servian summer, that this portion of 
. the park is unquestionably the pleasantest resort within 
the reach of Belgradians from May to October. It was 
Prince Michael 5 s custom to stroll up and down this 
particular avenue after his early dinner, cigar in mouth 
and accompanied by one or more of his near relatives or 
intimate acquaintances. He loved to linger under the 
umbrageous canopy, nearly a quarter of a mile in length, 
afforded by the overhanging branches of tall beeches and 
sturdy oaks, most of which were familiar friends of his 
early childhood. It was in that very avenue that he 
fell, stricken to death by the assassin's bullet, the victim 
of an inconceivably base and ruthless conspiracy. There, 
ere he had gasped out his last breath, was he barbarously 
hacked and hewn by the kandjars of his murderers, who 
inflicted over thirty ghastly wounds upon his defenceless 
body before they turned their backs upon it, and left the 
good and gentle Prince weltering in his blood, a maimed, 
disfigured, and lifeless corpse. 

On the tenth of June, 1868, Michael Obrenovich III., 
with whom his aunt and cousin, Anka and Katrine, had 
been dining, strolled out at about 4 P.M. with the two 



24:6 THE MUEDER OF PRIKCE MICHAEL. 

ladies and his personal aide-de-camp, young Garashianin, 
the eldest son of the renowned Minister-President, 
Michael's most faithful counsellor and trusted friend. 
The small party, followed fey the Prince's body-servant, 
Mita, entered the park from the Eondeau, and walked 
slowly towards the preserves. As they approached the 
boundary fence, three men emerged from some brush- 
wood to the left of the path, and advanced towards the 
Prince, bowing profoundly. His Highness, who was 
unarmed, though in undress uniform, turned deadly pale 
as he returned their salute and muttered "Gospodar 
pamiloi ! " (God have mercy on me) under his breath. 
Swerving aside, cap in hand, a little to the left to make 
room for him to pass, the three men waited till his back 
was turned to them, when on of them, exclaiming, 
" Knowest thou Eadavanovich ? " drew a revolver from 
the breast of his jacket, and fired point-blank at the 
Prince, who cried out to Captain Garashianin, "Save me, 
brother ! " and fell backwards, shot through the neck, 
Almost simultaneously with his fall the other two 
assassins discharged their pistols into the Prince's head, 
and then turned like tigers upon the remaining members 
of the august group. Anka Obrenovich, a woman of 
uncommon spirit and courage, sprang upon Joko Eada- 
vanovich, with a shriek of fury, and seizing Mm by the 
hair with both hands, strove with the strength of despair 
to throw him to the ground ; but he deliberately dis- 
charged two bullets into her head and left breast, and 
she dropped stone-dead upon the body of her murdered 
nephew. Meanwhile young Garashianin, whilst in the act 
of drawing his sabre, was shot down by Lazar Marich, 



A DASTARDLY DEED. 247 

the second conspirator ; and Katrine Obrenovieh, who 
upon seeing her mother fall had taken to flight, scream- 
ing at the top of her yoice for mercy, was picked off, as 
though she had been a running hare, "by the third, Costa 
Eadavanovich, Joko's brother, who fired three shots in 
rapid succession at the panic-stricken girl, all of which 
took effect. Mita, the lackey, who stood still as though 
paralysed by sheer terror, was dealt with by a fourth 
ruffian, named Stanoe Rogich, who appears to have acted 
as a reserve to his fellow-murderers, and who, as soon as 
he appeared on the scene of action, promptly smote 
poor Mita to the earth. As soon as they had secured 
themselves from interruption in their bloody enterprise, 
Joko Eadavanovich and Marich drew their kandjars and 
set to work to mangle the Prince's remains, which they 
did to such gruesome purpose that only his right aim 
was subsequently found to be free from gashes or frac- 
tures. So numerous, indeed, were his wounds that, 
when Ms body was afterwards being prepared for 
embalming and exposure to public view on a bier, ac- 
cording to Servian custom, two skilled surgeons were 
occupied during some thirty hours in patching it up so 
as to render it presentable ; and, after they had finished 
their melancholy task, the dead Prince's face had to be 
thickly painted in order to conceal its scars from the 
illustrious personages deputed by foreign Sovereigns to 
attend his funeral. 

Prince Michael had been repeatedly warned by anony- 
mous letters of the danger impending upon him from a 
desperate and influential conspiracy against his life, 
organised by unscrupulous partisans of the rival dynasty; 



248 THE CONSPIRACY. 

and one of these communications even especially cau- 
tioned him against taking Ms afternoon strolls in the 
Kossutniak; but, when urged by his friend, Senator 
Philip Cristich, to take heed to these monitions, he 
expressed his conviction that none of his countrymen, 
whom he loved and served so well, would ever raise a 
hand against him, and peremptorily declined to take any 
precautions against imaginary perils. He paid with his 
life for his generous confidence in the treacherous and 
sanguinary Serbs. The plot to which he fell a victim, as 
was subsequently discovered, had doomed several other 
eminent Servians to death amongst them old Gara- 
shianin, Milivoi Petrovich and Mko Cristich, the Sena- 
tor's brother. But the assassins told off to murder those 
gentlemen mistook their instructions; and when Joko 
and Costa Eadavanovich, confident of the conspiracy's 
entire success, and fully expecting to find Belgrade in 
arms, the ministers dead and Kkrageorgevich proclaimed 
prince, coolly walked into town after butchering their 
kindly sovereign, they were encountered on the Terazia 
by the venerable Garashianin, who at once arrested them 
and caused them to be loaded with chains. Charac- 
teristic of Servian imperturbability was the remark 
made by Joko upon being fettered. He observed, 
" These irons are exactly twice as heavy as those 
should be which you have a legal right to put on me/ 3 
and strode away to the fortress with his guards as 
unconcernedly as if nothing unusual had happened to 
him. Lazar Marich was an escaped convict, who had 
been condemned to hard labour for life for having killed 
his wife by driving a long nail through her head with a 



GAEASHIASTIN. 249 

hammer. "When interrogated as to the exact part he 
had taken in the Prince's slaughter, he replied with a 
ferocious smile, " Do you think that I, who thought 
nothing of slaying my own wife with a nail, would stick 
at such a trifle as shooting down Knes Michael?" 
Another characteristic Servian utterance, hut of more 
heroic temper than the above cold-blooded deliverances, 
deserves to be recalled to memory in this necessarily 
fragmentary and imperfect sketch of the most revolting 
episode in Servian modern history. The elder Gara- 
shianin was himself walking in the so-called " foreign 
pleasure-grounds" of Topchidereh when the appalling 
intelligence was conveyed to him that his eldest son had 
perished in an attempt to defend the Prince against the 
latter's merciless assailants. All the grand old patriot 
said was, " That is well. He died, then, in the simple 
fulfilment of his duty; " and, without another word, he 
hurried off to Belgrade to take measures for seizing the 
assassins and preserving public order. To this truly 
great man, Horatio's description of himself, with but 
slight alteration, might most fitly be applied. Gara- 
shianin was indeed "more an ancient Eoman than a 
Serb." I may mention that, happily, his son, though so 
severely wounded as to necessitate the amputation of his 
right arm, recovered health and strength, and is at the 
present moment a man of considerable mark in Ms native 
country. Katrine Obrenovich-Costantinovich was also 
saved from death by judicious surgical treatment, and 
subsequently married Milivoi Petrovich, commonly called 
Blasnavatz, some time regent of Servia during the inter- 
regnum between Prince Michael's murder and the 



250 A SERVIAN EXECUTIONER. 

election to the throne of Milan Obrenovieh, the present 
King of Servia, 

Capital punishment has never been abolished in 
Servia. It is rarely inflicted, even upon murderers, 
through patriotic reluctance on the part of the legal 
executive to depopulate the country; but when adminis- 
tered to some inveterate homicide whose lethal pro- 
clivities are officially felt to be a public inconvenience, 
the manner of its performance is somewhat sensational. 
The person condemned to suffer the extreme penalty of 
the law is chained, standing, to a strong post, driven 
firmly into the ground. In that position he receives 
absolution for his sins, during which ceremony the 
executioner, pistol in hand, steps softly up to him from 
behind, and shoots him through the back, d lout portent. 
The friends and relatives of the doomed felon generally 
club together to make up a purse of ducats for the 
executioner, who is apt to miss a vital part unless his 
aim be steadied by a judicious pecuniary tonic. If, 
however, it be made worth his while to spare his u sub- 
ject " superfluous suffering, he shoots him through the 
heart with unerring accuracy at the first fire. At the 
time of Prince Michael's assassination, this functionary 
was a jovial, burly fellow, universally respected, who 
took considerable pride in his profession, and whose 
conscientiousness in keeping his share of a bargain was 
notorious; for none of his clients, upon whose behalf 
his palm had been sufficiently greased, had ever required 
a second shot. On the Kara Bournu or Black Pro- 
montory of Belgrade, this honest artist dealt, in due 
time, with the Prince's murderers, as well as with several 



A SERVIAN EXECUTIONER. 251 

other distinguished Servian politicians concerned in 
the conspiracy for the extermination of the Obrenovich 
family and restoration of the Karageorgevich dynasty. 
The Triumvirs who assumed the reins of Government 
immediately upon Michael's death, had all three been 
doomed to share his fate, so it was scarcely to be 
expected that they should show any mercy to the very 
men who had deliberately compassed their slaughter. 
As the backers of these abominable ruffians were well- 
to-do personages, whose honour was involved in seeing 
their agents comfortably through all their mundane diffi- 
culties, the skilful marksman above alluded to realised 
so handsome a sum by Ms dexterous ministrations (from 
first to last nineteen in number) to the detected con- 
spirators, that he has since been known to give the coup 
de grace to an old personal friend of impecunious con- 
nections, free, gratis, and for nothing ! 



CHAPTEB IX. 

LIFE IN" CAIRO. -ARAB CHARACTERISTICS. HELIOPQLIS. 

CAIRO is a triumphant example of the good taste, judi- 
diciously grafted on practicality, -which distinguished 
the Khedive Ismail from other Oriental monarchs - 
notably from Ms suzerain, the Commander of the Faith- 
ful, and from that very peculiar personage, the King of 
Kings, Nasr-ed-din. It abounds in wide, "well-payed 
streets, the sidewalks of which are delightfully shaded 
by sycamores, and lined with splendid villas and luxu- 
riant gardens. These streets, of a straightness that 
Portland Place itself could not outdo, are watered on 
the Parisian plan (with certain local modifications), and 
take their rise from handsome squares, or from, cosy 
little rondeam, the centres of which are green and 
refreshing with palm-trees and sparkling fountains. Two 
of them start from the Place do POp&ra, on either side of 
the New Hotel, a handsome building facing the Opera 
House, and built in the latest approved "mitigated 
Oriental" style. Close to this huge hostelry, as well as 
to Shepheard's, the rallying-point of the British colony, 
is the public garden, a large enclosure prettily laid out 
and duly provided with restaurants, arbours, an artificial 
lake, wild-fowl, a military band every afternoon from 



CAIRO UNDER ISMAIL. 253 

four to six, and many other attractions too numerous to 
mention. The garden is surrounded on all sides by 
handsome buildings, for the most part brand-new and 
fronted by lofty arcades. In u Shepheard's " Street, as 
I will take the liberty of christening the thoroughfare 
in which I used to reside, some uncommonly fine houses 
haye been erected lofty, solid, and decorative construc- 
tions that in no way jar with the general couleur locale 
of the city. From Shepheard's Street, again, branch off 
a couple of wide thoroughfares, in one of which is situate 
the palace built by the Duke of Sutherland. At one 
end of this stately building is the British Agency ; at 
the other, the "Khedive" Club, in which Englishmen 
admitted to the enjoyment of its privileges can revel in 
the delights of the London daily and weekly newspapers, 
magazines, reviews, and comic periodicals of an excel- 
lent English billiard table, a good restaurant, and as 
much " cayenne" whist as their means will permit of 
their indulging in. As to evening amusements, there 
are two pretty little theatres, one dedicated to the lyric 
drama, the other to comedy and operetta, at which per- 
formances are given alternately, so that one need be at 
no loss how to spend the hours between dinner and bed- 
time. Moreover, musical cafes abound in Cairo cafes 
of considerable dimensions, in which on est pousse & la 
consommation by the strains of Donizetti, Strauss, Wag- 
ner! I once heard at the Grand Caf6 Egyptien the 
" Flying Dutchman" done into quadrilles. Indeed, I 
would have given much to have transported the great 
Bichard, on a flying carpet or a roc's back, from Munich 
to Cairo, that he might listen to the Hollander's awful 



254 MUSIC AND GAMBLING. 

utterances transmogrified into the cheeriest of " hands 
across and down the middle/' rendered with an energy 
that approaches the humorous by stringed orchestras of 
young Bohemian damsels, brought over en bloc from 
out-of-the-way little towns near the Silesian and Saxon 
frontiers of the most musical province in Europe. The 
members of each of these groups of girls are all related 
to or connected with each other, and keep an almost 
preternaturally sharp look-out upon one another's con- 
duct. They are also collectively under the supervision 
of stern chefs d'orchestre, whose interest is to keep them 
together and out of mischief. Whilst contributing 
materially to the diversions of Cairo, they thus in no 
way lower its moral tone, nor entice any respectable 
Egyptian paterfamilias from the exclusive practice of 
the domestic virtues which, indeed, considering the 
scale upon which Egyptian establishments amongst the 
club and cafe frequenting classes are conducted, must, 
one would fancy, make sufficiently heavy demands upon 
his time and energies. These cafes jouants, except in so 
far as they are supplemented by gambling-houses, are 
harmless institutions enough. Perhaps the prices at 
which they dispense refreshments are calculated to 
startle the European who does not happen to be a 
millionaire or an adventurer ; but it must be remem- 
bered that all potable liquids except coffee and Mle 
water have a long way to come ere they reach the 
Egyptian capital, and are subjected, moreover, to duties 
which, in a less lavish and devil-may-care country, 
would be held to come under the heading of " prohibi- 
tive.' 7 Light come, light go ; money seems, somehow or 



BUCKSHEESH. 255 

other, to be easily got in tlie Nile Delta I was nearly 
saying earned, but stopped myself In time to avoid con- 
veying a totally erroneous impression of the process by 
which, people fill their pockets in those latitudes. It is 
certainly spent with a noble disregard of petty details 
that exercises a subtly-demoralising influence upon the 
thriftiest nature. Egypt is a country in which every- 
body still worships that venerable and venal deity, hight 
Bucksheesh, aliter Bakshish in Egyptian parlance 
known in Europe as Monsieur de Pourboire, Signor 
Buonamano, Herr von Trinkgeld, &c. 

This potent Impersonality (who is old enough to know 
better, but doesn't) has the whole Egyptian nation pros- 
trate at his cloven feet aye, and a goodly assortment 
also of the aliens who ornament the Delta of the Nile 
with their agreeable and entertaining presence amongst 
the descendants of Ishmael. The unswerving devotion 
of " all hands " to the bucksheesh cultus is highly grati- 
fying to the moral philosopher in these sceptical if not 
absolutely unbelieving times. How cheering it is to 
find a whole people believing implicitly that " by faith 
in bucksheesh shall ye be saved/ 5 and recognising that 
that belief is thoroughly well founded, which is more 
than can be said of all the creeds to which humanity 
pins its faith. And how lovely is the reflection that each 
individual is at once a votary and a priest of buck- 
sheesh that he, so to speak, carries about with him a 
little private shrine, upon which he insists his fellow- 
worshippers should deposit their offerings, whilst he, in 
his turn, pays his tribute when he cannot absolutely 
help doing so. How instructive it is and how expen- 



256 . BITCKSHEESH. 



r to discover that no transaction of everyday life, 
however insignificant or physically inevitable, and there- 
fore commonplace, can be carried ont without the invoca- 
tion of bucksheesh, and the attribution to him of some 
unconsidered trifle that by no means enters into your 
contract or calculations ; likewise that his acolytes are so 
boundlessly receptive in his name, and so tenacious of the 
honours due to him, that they are never to be satisfied 
with tribute tendered in conformity with foreign appre- 
hension of his divine deserts, but clamour with amazing 
vehemence and persistency for contributions which, to 
the irreverent European intellect, appear altogether out 
of keeping with the possible importance of any cultus 
whatsoever nowadays. Thus, you present the adroit but 
melancholy juggler, who, spontaneously and unsolicited, 
favours you, on the perron of your hotel, with the cup 
and pellet trick of your guileless youth, with two piastres 
an appreciable silver piece covered all over with 
Arabic inscriptions of a conspicuously valuable and 
interesting character. He sniffs at you dismally, and 
murmurs, " That not good for bucksheesh ! You give 
rupee for bucksheesh ! " Now a rupee is two shillings, or 
too nearly so not to inspire sadness in you upon parting 
with it for ever ; and one does not give two shillings, 
as a rule, in Europe, to an operator in natural magic 
who performs the cup and pellet trick on a paving-stone, 
sub Jove frigido. Not to do so in Cairo, however, is to 
run counter to, and treat with contumely, the dearest 
and most venerated traditions of the national faith. 
Again, cab-fares appear to be carefully regulated with a 
benevolent view to keeping the proprietors of these 



AN OLD EGYPTIAN PALACE. 257 

vehicles in comfortable circumstances ; for a ten minutes' 
drive costs six shillings, and a contribution to the altar 
of Bucksheesh into the bargain. But if you should, 
moved by a passionate desire to forego the customary 
invocations for once in a way, pay your driver, for such 
a service as the one alluded to, twelve shillings, twenty- 
four, five pounds, an Egyptian State loan ! he will, with 
the fatal exactitude of Death or the tax-gatherer, follow 
you into the penetralia of your dwelling, muttering or 
bellowing, whispering plaintively or declaiming men- 
acingly, according to his individual temperament and 
judgment of your character, the vile and idolatrous 
shibboleth, " Bucksheesh ! 'ksheesh ! sheeeeeesh ! " The 
Khedive Ismail was a clever and energetic man, but he 
utterly failed, if he ever attempted, to uproot from 
Egyptian soil the worship of this foul fetish. 

When Hans Makart, the greatest of modern Austrian 
colourists, was staying in Cairo, he established his atelier 
in a fine old palace, uninhabited save by himself and 
a few of his brother artists, but in a room of which 
the Yiceroy himself had been born. It is situate in 
the most intricate as well as most picturesque quartier 
of Cairo, and can only be discovered by the aid of expert 
guides, long-suffering donkeys, and unlimited patience. 
Like most Oriental houses, its exterior affords little or 
no promise of the decorative magnificence characterising 
its interior. In this respect it also resembles the Egyp- 
tian ladies, who walk about the streets upon shopping 
expeditions (in which I am told they take even more 
intense and rapturous delight than my own fair country- 
women) enveloped in a hideous black garment, not unlike 

VOL. II. B 



258 EGYPTIAN LADIES. 

the dismal robes of the Eoman Confraternita, which 
effectually conceals the attractions nature has bestowed 
upon them, as well as those due to the adornments of 
millinery and jewellery. But English ladies, who enjoy 
the privilege of free access to some of the leading Egyp- 
tian harems, have informed me that this shapeless, 
lugubrious vestment covers toilettes of the greatest 
splendour in material and colour, and bijouterie that 
might awaken envy in the breast of many a titled 
"Western dame. I have listened to thrilling accounts of 
lockets as large as turkeys' eggs, both faces of which 
are covered with brilliants of the first water, the size of 
goodly chick peas; of complete " costumes " from Worth 
and Madame Elise ; of ropes of pearls that would have 
" sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought" the lavish 
impulses of Lothair himself; of rubies, emeralds, and 
sapphires, scattered with fine profusion over the surface 
of undeniable if somewhat exuberant charms. As the 
Egyptian ladies, so the Egyptian houses. What they 
are compelled to exhibit to public gaze is of a simplicity 
frequently amounting to ugliness, whilst that which 
they reserve for private inspection is gorgeous and ornate 
in the extreme. The walls of the noble palace in which 
three or four German artists made their nests in the 
spring of 1876, are white, lofty, and all but windowless. 
They line one side of a wretched blind alley, into which 
a system of squalid and malodorous lanes converges in a 
tortuous, perplexing, and wholly unreasonable manner. 
Dustheaps are manifestly considered to be fashionable 
and ornamental adjuncts to domestic architecture in this 
venerable quarter. They exhale a mawkish smell, which 



STREET TYPES. 259 

is universally popular in European Turkey, and, I sup- 
pose, goes with the Mahomniedan religion, as it has 
managed to cross the Mediterranean and settle in Africa. 
These mounds of sickly refuse are liberally studded with 
youthful Muslim of both sexes, very much undressed, 
black-eyed, rhubarb-complexioned, triumphantly dirty, 
and vociferating at the top of their voices that execrable 
word I will not again defile my pen with it ! which 
begins with a B and ends in a sibilant screech. Mean- 
while, the population of the neighbourhood that is, the 
male portion of it is strolling about unconcernedly in an 
airy and inexpensive costume of hairdresser's gown (blue 
linen), yellow slippers, and turban ; that is all, upon my 
honour. It is the correct social thing in Cairo to walk 
out in the streets, exchange the news of the day, transact 
your business, and call upon youi: friends, in the above 
toilette, to which, if the father of a family, you may add a 
jasmine- stemmed chibouk the roystering young bache- 
lors of eleven or so smoke cigarettes and, if you desire 
to gain a reputation for thoughtfulness, sagacity, and 
easy circumstances, an odd sort of rosary composed of 
octagonal beads, many-coloured and jingling, which you 
draw with an air of philosophical self-introspection 
slowly through four fingers, letting them fall succes- 
sively, one by one, as deliberately as though they were 
drops of laudanum, and an overdose of two or three 
beads would lead to serious constitutional complications. 
The staid and meditative gentlemen with the rosaries, I 
have noticed, now and then stop their counting to take a 
drink of water, which comes out of a horrible receptacle 
for liquor looking exactly like a drowned pig, under 

s2 



260 THE WATER-CARRIER. 

which a functionary, fringed with brass goblets, staggers 
from street to street. He has, if anything, less clothes 
on than the peripatetic sons of the Prophet to whom he 
dispenses the lymph that flows from the hideous vessel. 
One hopes that he makes a good thing of his profession, 
but I have never yet seen any of the solemn drinkers 
give him anything for quenching their thirst. Let us 
return to the old palace, round which these quaint per- 
sonages incessantly meander, interspersed with donkeys, 
slinking dogs, innumerable children, apparently in an 
advanced stage of dropsy, and a hypocritical camel or 
two, obtrusively careful not to knock down the houses, 
or squash any of the juvenile Arabs who flit about 
amongst their legs. 

Passing under a broad archway, you enter a large 
court of irregular shape, out of which several doors lead 
to suites of apartments, staircases, and cold dark corri- 
dors. It matters not what room you go into, you are 
sure to find something exceedingly beautiful and inte- 
resting either a lovely carved and fretted ceiling, or an 
inlaid dome, or patchwork panels of the most delightful 
patterns in coloured woods. Much of this decorative 
work is by the grand old Arab carvers and inlayers 
whose place in Egypt knows them no more. The modern 
and, above all, the contemporary work of this class is 
very poor in design, and too frequently executed in a 
very slovenly manner. Up a great many stone stairs, 
curly and crooked, you climb till you come to a blunt 
little passage, at the end of which there is a lofty door. 
This opens to your cavass, who announces you with some 
choice flowers of speech ; and you enter one of the most 



CATEO STREETS. 261 

fascinating rooms it has ever been your good fortune to 
visit. Lofty, low in tone, with a fine sidelight from a win- 
dow giving on a stone platform, and a soft top-light steal- 
ing through the instertices of a delicately-carved dome that 
springs upward from the centre of a circle which I can 
only speak of as a masterpiece of marqueterie, this lordly 
chamber is adorned with art objects of the most volup- 
tuous colouring, grouped, arranged, and displayed with 
consummate taste. Hangings of gorgeous Oriental car- 
pets, inlaid cabinets, feathery palm-branches, 'divans, quaint 
stools, inlaid arms, deep-tinted vessels of graceful shapes 
all these and many other things of beauty are there, con- 
stituting the background and accessories to Makart's 
pictures, the -offspring of his studies and labours in 
Egypt, which, though they only lasted a couple of 
months, enabled him to produce seven magnificent works 
of art, two or three of which were on an unusually large 
scale. 

The streets of Cairo exercised a strange fascination 
upon me. The greater portion of my leisure time during 
a three months' sojourn in the Egyptian capital was ex- 
clusively spent in wandering aimlessly, without drago- 
man or guide to turn all the poetry of the place into 
chattering prose, about those wonderful streets ; some- 
times in as nearly a straight line as the sinuosities of 
Oriental domestic architecture would permit, sometimes 
taking my topographical cue from a particularly sympa- 
thetic donkey, in whose humble and pottering little 
track I steadily followed until Ms rider pulled up at some 
dilapidated shop or dingy coffee-shed, where Arabs of all 
colours between the tint of weak tea and that of a 



262 HUMOURS OP THE CAMEL, 

neglected kitchen kettle were crouched round backgam- 
mon boards. So intent were they upon the fluctuations of 
the game that a grand charge of donkeys hardly availed 
to arrest their gaze from the rolling of the dice ; and the 
hullabalooo of the street itself, which was vehement 
enough to attract the attention and ruffle the equanimity 
of an Egyptian mummy, elicited no more notice from the 
players than if they had been so many artistically executed 
waxen figures. No words can do justice to the noise of 
a Cairo street ; it puts private conversation quite out of 
the question, and reduces the stoutest-voiced European 
to the adoption of a mute and inglorious pantomime. 
The Arabs evidently manage to make themselves heard 
by one another how they do it is a mystery to me 
but, once fairly engaged in the intricacies of the Arabic 
or Coptic quarter, a "Western man might just as well be 
dumb, for all that he can perform in the way of making 
Himself audible. The noise is an amalgam of the 
strangest sounds, chiefly human, though such that it is 
at first difficult to believe that it can be produced from 
men's throats, even with the assistance of a donkey's 
strident bray or of the indescribable utterances of an 
indignant camel. The last-named animal was ever an in- 
exhaustible source of rejoicing to me. The immense joke 
-of his walking about the city as calmly and blandly as if 
it belonged to him and had been especially arranged as a 
lounge for camels, never palled upon me for an instant. 
The humorousness of the camel is infinitely various and 
not at any time to be withstood, at least by me. He 
is at once such a dainty and such a slovenly fellow, so 
tripping of foot and so slobbery of mouth. He is also so 



THE SHIP OF THE DESERT. 263 

patently a profound and accomplished hypocrite, wearing 
such a superficial and exaggerated expression of meek- 
ness upon Ms wrinkled countenance, the rare grimaces 
of which, however, reveal a fully developed capacity 
for taking care of himself. He receives his burden in a 
posture of conspicuous humility ; but let a single pound 
of overweight be superimposed upon what he has settled 
on in his own mind as his correct and sufficient load, 
and he emerges from his seeming self-abasement in a 
highly forcible and instructive manner. First he utters 
a series of dismal screeching protests, successively in- 
creasing in volume and vehemence ; then, if his remon- 
strances be disregarded, he wraps himself up in a 
garment of impenetrable obstinacy, treats all suggestions 
as to the expediency of getting up with silent contempt, 
and, when his attention is further solicited by overt acts 
of violence on the part of his driver, bites with concen- 
trated malignity at the bare legs of that gentleman and 
of his assistant friends. 

I once witnessed, in an inconceivably frowzy street, 
of a narrowness which rendered the presence of a camel 
in it at all the most puzzling pleasantry imaginable for 
the way was one in which any European cat endowed 
with the least instinct of self-preservation would cer- 
tainly object to be swung, for obvious reasons one of 
these contests between a ship of the desert and that 
apparently stranded vessel's guide, philosopher, and 
friend. The latter had heaped up an armful or so of 
green meat more than met the former's views, on an 
already respectable collection of vegetable substance 
which magnified the naturally excrescent aspect of the 



264 A CAMEL'S RESOLVE. 

camel's back into the seeming of an animate stack. 
Crouching, the humpy one had pulled himself close 
together to " see out " the inconveniences resulting from 
his determination not to carry away that extra armful or 
two of greens ; and, barring an occasional wag of his 
whole skin I cannot describe the phenomenon other- 
wise and a cynical writhe of his spongy nose, he might, 
for all movement on his part, have been chiselled out of 
stone. Around this impregnable stoic was capering, in 
a sort of distracted hornpipe, his Arab owner or lessee, 
in a yellow rage, each successive paroxysm of which 
expressed itself in a frenzy of double-shuffles. He 
was also hoisting up parcel after parcel of curses from 
the remoter depths of his diaphragm with a productive- 
ness in that direction which would have done honour 
to a skilled disciple of Signor Lamperti's gruesome 
"method," and punctuating each malediction with a 
furious thwack on the camel's hard, hard hide, mani- 
festly putting into every thump the whole of whatever 
heart may have throbbed in his dusky bosom. Mean- 
while the sentient drum upon which the infuriate 
Ishmaelite thus unmercifully beat his devil's tattoo 
made no sign, till he had received about sixty or seventy 
blows, except the above-mentioned scornful nose-wrink- 
ling, with which he, as it were, checked off and took 
tally of the wrongs inflicted upon him. Suddenly his 
eye, which had followed the Arab steadily through all 
his insensate gyrations, twinkled. He thought he had 
his chance. The Arab's legs were an inch or two nearer 
to his victim's body than they had thitherto been, when 
out lashed the long neck, and u clash" went the formid- 



THE TORTUOUS ARAB. 265 

able jaws ! He just missed Ms tormentor's tibia, in 
virtue of an enormous skip which tlie Arab executed 
simultaneously with tlie camel's effort ; but it was a 
great joy to observe with what intensified wrath and 
perfect oneness of purpose he "went for" the most 
vulnerable point of his persecutor's person. Many more 
thumps avenged his abortive snap ; but he took no more 
notice of them than if they had been so many flappings 
of a butterfly's wing. Presently the Arab, fairly tired 
out, and having presumably exhausted the abusive 
resources of his native tongue, sat down and spat freely 
round him for a minute or two, after which he took off 
the three or four pounds overweight; whereupon the 
camel rose with the utmost promptitude, and stepped off 
in that gingerly manner which is so ludicrously out of 
keeping with the figure and stature of such creatures, 
steering his way down a street which almost accurately 
fitted him, as easily as if it had been a broad boulevard. 
He had had his own way, and he apparently bore no 
malice; but, had I been that camel's driver, I would not, 
for some time to come, have adventured my legs within 
the reach of that oppressively meek countenance. Its 
expression was too obviously forgiving not to inspire 
disquietude. 

The more I saw of Arab street life and domestic archi- 
tecture, the more I heard of Arab music, and the more I 
considered the characteristics and peculiarities of the 
Arab personages with whom I was brought into contact, 
the stronger became my conviction that there is some- 
thing curly in the Arab nature, which finds its ex- 
pression in all his sayings, doings^ and surroundings. 



266 AKAJB CHARACTERISTICS. 

Everything about Mm is ornate, but in the curved 
manner; as in his ceiling carvings and mural decora- 
tions, so in his music ; he never goes straight from one 
note to another, but reaches perhaps retches would be 
the more correct word at the tone he wants to get at in 
many several circuitous ways, and finally slides into it 
round a vocal corner, so to speak. All the wonderful 
patterns and traceries that we admire in Arabian inte- 
riors are made up of irregular intricacies, which consti- 
tute a total of amazing beauty, but are in themselves 
perplexing and unreasonable. Conversation with native 
gentlemen who have made a conquest of some European 
idiom for alas ! with respect to the flowery tongue of 
Egyptian society I am an ignorant Western barbarian 
leads me to the conclusion that their inborn or trans- 
mitted turn of thought is as elliptic as their musical 
method and their decorative art. They love to manoeuvre 
round a subject, avoiding its corners, or touching them so 
lightly as to make no impression upon them at all. They 
progress colloquially, when they progress, exclusively by 
process of involution. With all this quaintness of form 
in dealing with actualities, they are extremely clever, 
cunning of argumentative fence, and apprehensive in 
the scholastic sense of the word, as well as secretive. 
Oddly enough, with all this subtlety and quick-witted- 
ness of theirs is combined a certain child-like naivete^ 
which crops out conversationally in the most incongruous 
manner, and not unfrequently defeats their recondite 
intellectual combinations with diverting completeness. 
To obtain their confidence, or even arrive at a knowledge 
of their real opinions, is no easy undertaking for a Euro- 



ARA.B SEEVANTS. 267 

pean. Directness of question startles them, and, indeed, 
they are instinctively suspicions of all persons given to 
asking questions. Perfectly polite, courteous, and even 
cordial in manner though they are to all foreigners of 
recognised position, it is almost impossible to become 
genuinely intimate with them. As for the common 
people, they are in most respects the most charming and 
estimable plebeians I have ever become acquainted with. 
They exhibit a very high- classed civility ; they are uni- 
formly cheerful and good-tempered ; they are, in a pecu- 
liar way of their own, eminently honest ; and their 
social and civic behaviour is quite irreproachable. One's 
life, limbs, and " portable property" are a good deal 
safer in the streets of Cairo at night than in those of 
London, Berlin, or Naples. Nocturnal rows are unknown 
in Cairo, save when some drunken or quarrelsome Euro- 
pean is their author. The Arab servants in all the houses 
at which I have visited in Cairo and other Egyptian 
cities, were as unexceptionable in their demeanour as 
they were deft in their service. .Many of them spoke 
three, and even four, languages fluently and with excel- 
lent accent. In my hotels all the chamber service was 
performed by Arabs, whose pleasant faces and cheery 
smiles I was never tired of contemplating. At Shep- 
heard's few people think of locking up valuables, or of 
taking the infinite precautions against dishonesty of the 
necessity of which sad experience has convinced most 
travellers in Europe. You may leave your money about 
day after day in the absolute assurance that not a para 
will ever be missing. I will not say that Nasr or Hassan, 
Abdul or Mustapha, may not help himself to a cigarette 



268 DONKEY-DRIVERS. 

out of your case, or a pinch, of tobacco out of your tin 
box ; but, in a country where the giving and taking of 
smokable substances is a matter of course, whatever the 
differences of social rank may be between the inter- 
changers, a broad interpretation of the rights of pro- 
perty in that particular direction can hardly, even by the 
strictest moralist, be classed in the category of dishonest 
actions. What, however, impressed me more than aught 
else in the outward and visible characteristics of these 
worthy proletaries was their surpassing and impregnable 
good nature. The donkey-drivers who swarm round the 
steps of the chief hotels in Cairo are always playing 
tricks upon one another, and their play is frequently of 
the roughest sort, such as would lead to copious blood- 
shed in Italy or Germany, and to desperate fighting in 
England or France. They thump one another with good 
stout sticks, exchanging thwacks that can be heard fifty 
yards off it makes one positively sore to hear them. 
Now, when a person whose costume consists of a calico 
dressing-gown and a pair of yellow slippers receives on 
his back and ribs half a dozen blows, any one of which 
would fell a London rough or a Berliner Eaufbold, it 
might be confidently expected that he would experience 
some slight irritation, and that his resentment would take 
the form of a furious attack upon his assailant. Not so, 
however, with my friends the Arabs. They only laugh, 
and caper, and wriggle ; presently you see operator and 
victim hand in hand, grinning amicably at one another, 
or romping like schoolboy friends, Egyptian men, by the 
way, are much given to walking in couples holding hands, 
as if life were a chronic set of quadrilles of which they 



HELIOPOLIS. ' 269 

had selected La Trenise as tlie only figure worth per- 
forming. They live in the streets to an extent and with 
a frankness of social habits unknown even in Southern 
Italy. They eat, drink, play at dice, transact business, 
perform all sorts of functions that are considered private 
in European countries, squatting on the ground at street 
corners, under little sheds, before shop doors, on the 
steps of mosques, round the railed traceries of public 
fountains in short, everywhere where they enjoy com- 
parative immunity from the spongy tread of the camel 
or the pattering hoof of the donkey. Like all peoples 
who abominate work and revel in constant sunshine, 
they are picturesque in their practices as well as in their 
costumes and attitudes. But, above all, what endears 
them to me and to all the foreigners who live among 
them and know them well is their kindliness of disposi- 
tion, their spontaneous and indefeasible amiability the 
absence in them of that gall and bitterness which are 
unfortunately blended with the many fine qualities of 
Christian populations, the inhabitants of notoriously 
" civilized " countries. 

With a very merry and highly international party of 
pleasure-seekers, I drove out one fine February morning 
to Heliopolis, sacred promises of cold fowl and salad, not 
unmoistened by a pleasant foaming sherbet that is chiefly 
manufactured in Eheims, having been pronounced a 
mon adresse, and thus actually took part in an excur- 
sion outside the tether of my customary walks abroad, 
thitherto confined to the Isbekieh, Shepheard Street, 
Bunsen Street, and Stanton Street. It is more than 
probable that the Arabic names of the last-mentioned 



270 A VENERABLE TEEE. 

three thoroughfares are widely different from, those I 
have taken the liberty of bestowing upon them; but 
circumstances over which I have no control prevent me 
from imparting the correct local designations to my 
readers. I would try to do so, could I write backwards ; 
but that branch of my education has been lamentably 
neglected. Politics and finance had their wicked will of 
me for a long time in Egypt, to the exclusion of all 
sight-seeing whatsoever. Six weeks elapsed after I fell 
into the hands of that " Shepheard" (his name is Zech) 
who does not feed Ms flock, ere my acquaintance with 
the Pyramids advanced beyond a photographic footing, 
and I owed it to the oddest of accidents that I then caught 
a glimpse of the Nile. One day some English ladies were 
good enough to insist upon my contemplating the oldest 
statue in the world, then resident at Boulak. Overcome 
with gazing upon the bland, not to say cheery lineaments 
of a gentleman who must have sat for his portrait to a pre- 
Adamite artist, I sought the fresh air, and happening to 
prowl through a door of a peculiarly unpromising aspect, 
found myself on a massive stone balcony overlooking the 
Father of Eivers. But for the ante-paradisaical statue, 
I might have quitted Egypt without catching a glimpse 
of this notorious stream. Similarly, the astute applica- 
tion of gentle force procured me the sight of an historical 
plant, by all accounts the oldest vegetable of its kind 
known to science. , This is the tree " under which the 
Holy Family reposed during the flight into Egypt;" so 
say the guides hereabouts. It does not look its age. In 
this respect it is disappointing. I have seen older look- 
ing trees in Hyde Park. Its branches are studded with 



THE OLDEST OP OBELISKS. 271 

sharp spikes, which suggest the thought that, however 
agreeable it may have been, some years ago, to rest under 
its shade, nothing could be more unpleasant at the pre- 
sent moment than to perch amongst its foliage. Con- 
sidering the number of English and American tourists 
visiting it annually, it is in a wonderful state of preser- 
vation, though uncommonly dusty. Close to it is an old 
original Egyptian well, exhibiting the process by which 
bullocks are prepared for the Cairo meat-market, and ex- 
plaining at a glance much that had thitherto remained a 
profound mystery to us all with respect to the nature and 
treatment of the beef supplied to us twice a day at our 
hotel. The well is surrounded by what I will venture 
to designate as a pocket-circus, the inner rim of which 
is a large wooden wheel, to which the bullock is attached 
by a primitive kind of yoke. Bound and round the ring 
he walks, strictly blindfolded. This exercise is obviously 
far likelier to make him fat and tender than oil-cake, 
tranquillity, and other new-fangled nostrums of the 
modern grazier. When he has spent a dozen or so of 
years in describing an endless circle, and has reached the 
desirable degree of juiciness for the table, he is slaughtered 
and eaten by the intelligent foreigner, upon whom he 
promptly revenges his protracted wrongs. 

Heliopolis sounds like the name of a town, but any- 
thing more unlike a town than Heliopolis it would be 
difficult for the most luxuriant imagination to conceive. 
I can, indeed, hardly define Heliopolis to my own 
satisfaction. It might be anything. There is an obelisk, 
which, like its neighbour the tree, is asserted to" be the 
oldest institution of its class extant. This may be so. 



272 SUBURBAN CAIRO. 

but it is not such a good-looking obelisk as some I have 
seen in Europe. It is not nearly so neat as the obelisk 
in the Piazza del Popolo ; it wants finish. Obelisks are, 
as a rule, not exhilarating ornaments ; this one I found 
to be more than usually lowering. A few hundred yards 
from Heliopolis if I be correct in identifying that name 
with the immediate neighbourhood of the obelisk is a 
lemon grove, in which thorns predominate quite dis- 
tinctly over lemons. Sheltered within the scratchy re- 
cesses of this grove is a small hostelry kept by Europeans 
of the Levantine variety, who ten years ago owned a 
dear little four-year-old girl, babbling prettily in broken 
French, and a superb ginger cat with a settled purpose 
in life, which she took no pains to conceal, and which 
might be summed up in the following words : Young- 
rabbits in a coop under an old cactus-tree." In front of 
this queer little inn we found our tables spread with all 
manner of good things; and as there was fortunately 
nobody amongst our party who knew anything about 
Egyptian antiquities or was oppressively well read up in 
Biblical history, we had what Americans so happily 
describe as a " real good time." The country between 
Cairo and Heliopolis bears an extraordinary resemblance 
to parts of Lombardy for instance, to the district be- 
tween Milan and Monza and the country-houses of the 
Egyptian princes, liberally distributed over its surface, 
are all but counterparts of the white straggling flat- 
roofed mile inhabited by the Northern Italian nobility 
when in villeggiatura. The outskirts of Cairo in this 
direction are full of interest ; they abound in ruined 
tombs, huge castellated buildings in every stage of decay, 



273 

Arab dwellings like magnified mole-casts, wayside wells, 
built on the large and generous scale that distinguishes 
such structures in the East. The most important element 
of picturesqueness, dirt, is present in astonishing quan- 
tities ; indeed, there is more of it than of anything else. 
One enjoys in Egypt the inestimable advantage, when 
taking a drive or a walk, of seeing and meeting pretty 
nearly everything that one least expects to see or meet 
in a public thoroughfare. The national stock of camels 
appears to be altogether inexhaustible, and is simply 
bewildering to a person who has been for many years 
accustomed to regard camels exclusively from the Zoolo- 
gical Gardens point of view. They carry such odd 
things, too, and with a bland gravity that disarms 
criticism. One day I met a camel laden in the following 
incongruous manner : Firstly, a number of cotton bales 
hung all over him anyhow ; secondly, a hundredweight 
or so of green meat, packed into the interstices of the 
pendant, swinging bales ; thirdly, a tent full of Bedouin 
Arabs, chiefly women and children. It may be admitted 
that about the last spot upon which one would expect to 
see a tent pitched is a camePs back. 

A favourite resort of foreign visitors to Cairo is 
Helouan, a sanatorium situate on an oasis in the desert 
about five hours' drive from the capital. Helouan is said 
to be a very healthy place, but not quite so lively as 
Tunbridge Wells. It consists of one house. There are 
no amusements except a hysena, perpetually retained 
upon the strength of the establishment, in consideration 
of his long and valuable services. When entirely out of 
range he freely allows the sportive stranger to shoot at 

VOL. II. T 



274 THE HELOUAN HYJ3NA. 

him. Baron Henry de Worms used to sit up all night, and 
every night, with a double gun, for the twin purposes 
of potting the hysena and of having an unanswerable 
excuse for lying in bed all day quite the pleasantest 
way of passing one's time at Helouan. The hyaena never 
put in an appearance but once, when, having privately 
ascertained that the Baron's gun was not cocked, he 
sauntered up and howled derisively. By the time the 
Baron had realised the astonishing circumstance of the 
hyaena's presence in the flesh, and had taken measures 
accordingly, the latter was sweetly smiling on the other 
side of the desert. This is a very wily old animal, univer- 
sally respected, and there is much sport of the above 
description to be got out of him. Talking of sport, snipe 
may be shot any afternoon within half an hour's distance 
of Cairo itself. The City of the Gate is, as a matter of 
fact, one of the most enjoyable places in the world during 
the winter and early spring. I have no words to describe 
the exquisite beauty and freshness of the nights, when 
the huge city is hushed, and the only sound that from 
time to time breaks the dead, cool silence is the long 
challenge- cry of the Arab watchmen. The dogs are much 
more civilised than their Constantinopolitan cousins. 
Those in Shepheard Street make friends with many of 
the old habitues of the English hostelry, and trot home 
with them at night, even venturing upon the stone 
terrace, and down into the gardens, where the pelicans 
and monkeys sleep. But you should see them when a 
dog from Bunsen Street or the Boulak Eoad turns up in 
their own special quartier ! 



CHAPIEB 2, 

THE HOME OF AN" ITALIAN ACTOR* PIVE ITALIAN BOGS. 

DKJRXHG- a sunny autumn fortnight of tlie year 1883 I was 
the guest of Ernesto Bossi, at Ms country house on the 
Montughi hill, a short distance from Florence, one of the 
most picturesquely situated of the countless villas that 
crown the rounded heights and adorn the undulating 
slopes of the vine-clad Mils surrounding the City of 
Flowers, and fringing the fruitful plain through which 
dull Arno winds Ms way sluggishly along from the 
foot of the Apennines to the sea. 

Between the typical Florentine villa and that of 
Brixton, or even St. John's "Wood, there is little in com- 
mon save their residential character. In Tuscany, 
where brilliant sunshine is the rule and a clouded sky 
the exception, the villas to wMch, during the sultriness 
of summer and glow of autumn, wealthy patricians and 
citizens repair, exhibit a solidity of construction and a 
lavishness in the matter of space such as the dwellers in 
the metropolitan suburbs are scarcely accustomed to 
mentally associate even with the term " mansion " far 
less with that of "villa." Many of them especially 
the more ancient ones have walls a couple of feet in 
thickness, and contain upon each story suites of from 

T2 



276 . TUSCAN" TILL AS. 

ten to fifteen large and lofty rooms, communicating with, 
one another Tby folding doors or draped portals, and, for 
the most part radiating from a nobly-proportioned cen- 
tral hall, ornamented by frescoes and enriched with 
statuary, flowering shrubs, marble pavements of rich 
colour and classical design, painted ceilings, and not in- 
frequently, mural decorations in pietra dura. From sun- 
rise to sunset, during the summer months, these spacious 
apartments for the most part simply but comfortably 
furnished with massive upholstery in light-coloured 
woods and low-toned stuffs are kept in a chronic state 
of "light that counterfeits a gloom " by heavy green or 
fawn-coloured jalousies. Behind those solid defences 
against the fierce heats of a July or August day the 
windows are closed, and even (during the solstice), inner 
shutters are carefully adjusted at obtuse angles, so as to 
admit but a minimum of that dazzling light which, 
throughout Italy, is regarded as the equivalent of heat. 
Even at late autumn-tide there are hours in the Tuscan 
afternoon during which out-of-door exercise is tabooed, 
except to the contadino and the carrier, as a peine forte et 
dure not exempt from peril to health, and assuredly 
fraught with physical discomfiture to the most robust. 
The fields are slack-baked, the leaves brittle with dry- 
ness ; the plots of turf that figure as gardens in an all 
but grassless country are browned in streaks and patches, 
as though they had been licked by tongues of fire. 
"With infinite pains and labour the luxuriant shrubs and 
diminutive flower-beds are sparsely moistened once a 
day ; but there is no water to spare for the scorched 
lawn and scathed terraces that were meant to be green 



THE TILLA ROSSI. 277 

velvet, but have been tanned by Sol into the semblance 
of tawny matting. These severely exercised giardini are 
fringed with cypress-groves and olive-plantations ; vine- 
yards and maize-patches struggle up the hillside to their 
very confines ; the russet roofs of the peasants' cottages 
give here and there relief to the dusky hue of the cypress 
and livid tint of the olive. 

Such is the foreground of the picture I contemplate as 
I sit at my bedroom window in the primo piano of the 
Villa Bossi, overshadowed by a beetling Tuscan roof. 
Further off, beyond the stone-encased limits of my host's 
estate, fertile plains stretch away for many a mile, dotted 
here and there with brown hamlets, pale yelloAv villas, 
and tall square campanili. Nothing is absolutely bright 
in colour save the vines ; all the other elements of the 
landscape are more or less subdued nuances of greyish- 
greens and yellowish-browns, composing together ad- 
mirably and most reposeful to the eye. The whole 
panorama is majestically framed by hills mountains, I 
might say without exaggeration of soothingly soft and 
graceful outline, the nearer ones tawny, save where 
streaked with vine-rows, the more remote dyed a deep 
purplish blue by distance. Our own hill that of 
Montughi, a popular contraction of Montem Hugonis, 
the title bestowed upon it five centuries ago by a noble 
Florentine dame wheil she made a gift to her son, Count 
Hugo Villa, of the property now owned by Ernesto 
Rossi is but a few hundred feet in height. The Villa 
Eossi, however, occupies its crest, is overlooked by none 
of the neighbouring seats, and, from each of its four 
faces, commands an extensive view of the Arno Valley. 



278 THE VILLA ROSSI, 

Standing on the platform of its lofty turret, two stories 
higher than the roof of the corps de loc/is, a magnificent 
bird's eye view of Florence is commanded due south- 
wards, centred by the dark bulb of the Duoino and the 
lustrous shaft of Giotto's Campanile. To the eastward, 
Fiesole is visible, nestling in a broad fold of a green 
hillside. Northwards, a score of miles distant, lies 
Pistoja, dwarfed to the size of a toy village, though a 
populous and influential chef-lieu, one of Tuscany's an- 
cient and famous free-towns, returning two members to 
the Italian Parliament. The westward prospect consists 
chiefly of Florentine dependencies such as Sesto, Prato, 
and Castello, of the rich, broad Arno valley, and of the 
dusky, cloud-capped Apennines. There is a lifetime's 
glad gazing in these four pictures, every one of which 
" jumps to the eye " from some window or other of the 
house or tower. 

In this earthly paradise has Ernesto Kossi, the great 
Italian actor to whom his country owes its present fami- 
liarity with the works of our immortal Shakespeare, 
fixed his abode. He had been a resident in the city of 
Florence, where he owns a stately mansion, for more 
than a quarter of a century, when this estate and resi- 
dence thitherto known by the name of the " Villa La 
Macine " came into the market and was purchased by 
him. In the course of ages its authentic history runs 
back without break to the thirteenth century of our era 
it had been successively owned by the illustrious 
patrician families of Boni, Tosinghi, Medici, Cardi, and 
Strozzi, and had been the scene of many a sanguinary 
episode renowned in Florentine annals. Since the death 



THE 8TBOZZI COLLECTION. 279 

of Carlo Strozzi, the potent senator and erudite archaeo- 
logist, who transferred his magnificent collection of 
Etruscan, Greek, and Eoman antiquities from his palace 
in Florence to the " Macine," the villa had passed 
through the hands of several careless, negligent, or 
ignorant proprietors, who had allowed its grounds and 
natural appurtenances to run to waste its priceless 
stores of statuary, cinerary urns, and mural tablets to t 
suffer cruel injury, and fall into comparative decay. As 
soon as it became the property of Eossi he commenced a 
work of restoration, aided by experienced archaeologists 
and skilful artists, which has only lately been completed 
at a cost far exceeding the original price of the whole 
Montughi estate. Two stately halls and an open court 
payed with marble, their walls and ceilings decorated 
with classical designs in distemper, are devoted to the 
famous Strozzi Collection, which consists of Etruscan 
urns and sarcophagi, for the most part elaborately carved 
in high relief, of Greek statues and Eoman busts, these 
latter nearly all in admirable preservation, and of mural 
and votive tablets, which have been let into the walls. of 
the above-mentioned apartments in so highly finished a 
manner that they appear to be integral elements of the 
mural decoration. The "Museo" contains 312 objects, 
the most modern of which dates from the time of the 
Caesars. Amongst the inscriptions are two of surpassing 
interest to the profession of which Ernesto Eossi is a 
leader. One is dedicated to Pristina Maximina, Actrix 
the premier sujet of her day "in the house of Csesar ; " 
the other to Eoscius, the Garrick of Imperial Eome. 
Several of the Greek sculptures are exquisitely beau- 



280 A PHIDIAX FAUN, 

tifuL Of the Eoman "busts the most striking is a highly 
characteristic portrait of Nero, wrought by a courageous 
hand that scorned to flatter the pitiless tyrant. A 
volume's space would not suffice me to describe the 
contents of the Museo Strozzi, which brings to its gifted 
owner visitors of the professional variety of humanity 
from all parts of Europe, and furnishes abundant occu- 
pation to a learned archaeologist, Signor Mazzei, who 
holds the position of secretary and curator in Eossi's 
household. Besides, is not the history of the collection, 
written in flowing Latin, recorded in the huge parch- 
ment-bound tomes, dealing exhaustively with the anti- 
quities of Florence, and bearing the revered signature of 
the " prseclarissimus et doctissimus Ant. Franc. Q-ari, 
presbyter Flor. Baptisterii ?? a work of great weight, 
in every sense of the word at which I have glanced 
with awe from a respectful distance? One fact of 
general interest in connection with the Museo Strozzi I 
may, however, mention. From an artistic point of view, 
its capo $ opera is a Faun, bearing Bacchus on his shoulder, 
attributed to Phidias in very truth, a master- work of 
force, grace, and beauty. It appears that four marble 
versions of this powerful group, discovered at different 
epochs, exist in Europe : one at the Vatican, another at 
the Museo Borbonieo, a third in the Villa Albani, and 
the fourth in the Villa Eossi, detfa La Macine, in Mon- 
tughi. Obviously, three of the four must be repliche. 
Whilst I was staying at the Villa, Professor Gamurrini, 
the Eoyal Commissary of Antiquities for Tuscany, paid 
a visit to Ernesto Eossi for the express purpose of 
inspecting the collection. After subjecting the Bacchus- 



LIFE AT MOSTUGHI. 281 

bearing Faun to a long and minute examination, lie 
declared it to be, "beyond a doubt, the original work of 
the Inimitable Greek sculptor, from which the three 
groups above alluded to had been reproduced, in all 
probability by eminent pupils of Phidias. The Pro- 
fessor, moreover, expressed his conviction that, in con- 
ception and execution alike, the group in question Is 
entitled to rank amongst the noblest examples of Greek 
art known to civilised humanity. 

Everyday life at the Villa Rossi, as I lived it during 
my visit, was an ideal holiday, made up of perfect peace, 
absolute personal freedom, artistic surroundings, genial 
and sympathetic society, and all the most refined as well 
as luxurious attributes of physical comfort, too fre- 
quently lacking in the palaces of the wealthiest Italian 
nobles. Ernesto Eossi, in the course of his professional 
career (which commenced in the year 1849) has sojourned 
In many lands ; and nothing in the way of modern im- 
provements as far as the conveniences of domestic 
existence are concerned appears to have escaped his 
observant eye. In his villa all the ingenious appliances 
that contribute so materially to human happiness within 
the precincts of a home are adapted to a dwelling of 
antique exterior aspect and Interior arrangement, and 
this with such excellent taste as to avoid the least sug- 
gestion of anachronism, or even inharmonious contrast. 
Every room in the house is fitted with electric bells, one 
set communicating with the offices for day use, the other 
with the " servants gallery ?? in case of need during the 
hours of night. The bath-rooms and baths are executed 
in massive white marble, with, brass accessories copied 



282 LIFE AT MOHTUGHL 

from classical models. Along the front facade sweeps a 
noble cream-coloured stone terrace, twenty feet broad, 
fringed with flowering shrubs, and lit up, after dark, by 
brilliant lamps ? set upon tall slender metal shafts. The 
greater part of the villa's right wing consists of a vast 
square patio, intra muros, one side of which is open to 
the summer dining-hall, whilst the three others are pro- 
fusely ornamented with mural tablets and votive inscrip- 
tions. "When the sun shines on this patio, the dining- 
hall is kept dusk and cool by a huge veil of yellow and 
russet drapery, some thirty feet in breadth by eighteen 
in length. The centre of the court is occupied by an 
ancient stone fountain rising from a bed of flowers and 
ferns ; its corners are filled up by graduated banks of 
oleanders, tube-roses, camellias, and plants with wax-like 
blossoms, red as well as white, the English names of 
which are unknown to me. At the back of the summer 
banqueting-hall, in which a hundred guests can be 
comfortably entertained at table, is the large winter 
dining-room, behind which is situated one still smaller 
about twenty by sixteen for family use in excep- 
tionally cold weather. This apartment, like all the 
drawing-rooms, studies, boudoirs, and bedrooms, is 
warmed by hot air, generated by a huge central furnace 
lodged in the heart of the spacious vaults, excavated in 
the living rock, upon which the whole superstructure of 
the villa reposes. In a corner of the left wing is a cosy 
little chapel, dedicated to "La Santissima Croce," with 
sacristy, organ, and confessional, all complete, not to 
mention wall-painting of saints and martyrs, gorgeous 
vestments, and consecrated vessels in the precious metals. 



ERNESTO ROSSI, 283 

Besides the splendid stone stables, coach-houses, har- 
ness-rooms,, &c., adjoining the villa, on a tufa terrace 
some six feet lower than the corps de-logis^ Rossi has 
built a second set of massive quarters for his horses, 
hard by a smaller villa that stands upon his property, 
some three hundred yards from La Maoine, and is inha- 
bited by his fatten, or bailiff, though in days gone by 
it lodged no less exalted a personage than the Grand 
Duke of Tuscany. The drive between the two residences 
runs through vineyards and cypress groves, interspersed 
here and there by double rows of olive and pear-trees. 

Early rising is the rule at the Villa Kossi ; but the 
family and visitors do not, as a rule, meet until eleven 
o'clock, when the second breakfast a plentiful knife- 
and-fork meal, consisting of four courses and dessert 
is served in the large banqueting-hall. At eight a.m. 
coffee, toast, and butter are set out upon a table in each 
bedroom. The succeeding three hours are spent in the 
bath and dressing-rooms, in reading, writing, or resting 
(if the mosquitoes have been more than usually malig- 
nant during the night), or for the male guests in 
smoking and causerie with their accomplished host in 
his sanctum sanctorum, a snug library overlooking the 
patio. During my sojourn at La Macine, Eossi was 
engaged, with all the ardour that is one of his most 
sympathetic characteristics, in preparing a new Italian 
version of Julius Cassar not before it was wanted, the 
translations hitherto current in this country being one 
and all imperfect achievements, more or less disfigured 
by inaccuracies and misapprehensions. For some years 
past the great Italian tragedian has industriously ad- 
dressed himself to the study of our language, with 



28-i ERNESTO BOSSI, 

the exclusive purpose of supplying what, in his deep 
and enthusiastic Shakespeare-worship, he regards as a 
national want on the part of Italy ; and his labours 
have resulted in a literary proficiency in the English 
tongue that enables him to seize Shakespeare's subtlest 
meanings and give them adequate interpretation in his 
own euphonious idiom. His first essay in this direction 
has been Julius Caesar for obvious reasons a favourite 
play with the Italian public of which he completed a 
highly remarkable rendering in blank verse during my 
stay with him. For absolute fidelity to the text it is 
unsurpassed, even by the German versions, which have 
heretofore been universally recognised as triumphs of 
conscientious and painstaking exactitude ; while Rossi's 
poetical nature, cultivated intellect, and intense appre- 
ciation of Shakespeare's genius have imparted to his 
verses especially in the more heroic episodes of the 
tragedy a lofty austereness of style and nobility of dic- 
tion that are extraordinarily impressive. Every morning, 
after luxurious ablution in a bath worthy of "the noblest 
Roman of them all," he corrects, re- writes, or recasts, his 
lines from about nine to eleven. Then comes the fore- 
noon colazione, during which he is the life and soul of the 
company, overflowing with anecdote, humour, and the 
gentle gaiety that runs so smoothly through the table- 
talk of Italian society. Coffee, the post-prandial cigar, 
a quaint game with leaden discs and a wooden frame as 
full of holes as a rabbit-warren, a stroll through the 
vineyards, during which he generally looks in at his 
contadini's cottages to see how the world is using their 
children (who all appear to worship the very ground the 
padrone treads upon), and a conference with his bailiff 



TUSCAN FARE. 28 5 

upon matters connected with the estate, bring Mm to 
four o'clock, when lie resumes Ms Shakesperian labour 
of loye for two hours or so more. At half-past six the 
great bell in the tower rings out the dinner signal, and 
Ernesto Eossi closes his books (every imaginable edition 
of Shakespeare environs him in his study) until the 
following morning. 

The cena, or evening meal, is in every respect an 
interesting event. Choice spirits gather nightly round 
Eossi' s board, for Florence is within easy reach per legno 
or even on foot, and the hospitality of La Macine knows 
no limit; our amphitrion's cook is a cordon bleu, learned 
in all the honoured traditions of Tuscan cookery, and 
gifted, moreover, with a happy and fertile culinary 
imagination; the fruit, wine, bread, oil, poultry, and 
sausage (the last in boundless variety of toothsome com- 
binations), are all grown or manufactured on the estate, 
and of admirable quality. Eossi' s wine in particular, 
which belongs to the finest class of Chianti, is a superb 
beverage, entirely free from the acidity and slightly 
metallic twang that characterise the majority of Italian 
red wines, and mar their full enjoyment by those not to 
the manner born. It is light and slightly astringent 
of the category that " cheers and not inebriates" 
refreshing, thirst-allaying, agreeably stimulating, and 
perfectly wholesome. The bulbous green Tuscan fig, 
combined with salame, daily plays the part of antipasto 
the Italian equivalent of the Eussian zakouska and 
Grernian imbiss at these copious but elegant banquets. 
It is followed by a minestra (this term comprehends all 
sorts of soups and macaroni, risotti, polente, &c., in 



286 TUSCAN AMUSEMENTS. 

nuances without number), a dish of fish, or frittura 
(another comprehensive term upon which I dare not 
attempt to dilate), two rich and ingenious entrees say 
stuff 'atino and polpette a rdti with salad, a service of 
cooked vegetables accompanied by some succulent sauce, 
a piatto dolce, or sweet, and dessert, winding up with 
black coffee and a chasse of liqueur. Such is Ernesto 
Kossi's evening " ordinary ; ?? on great guest-days a 
second fish and supplementary roast, champagne, ices, 
and sorletti are added to the menu. After dinner, those 
"make music" who can, others play piquet, ecarte, 
draughts, chess, or sette e mezzo, a feeble sort of Tan 
John, or sit on the great flagged terrace, chatting de 
quilusdam aliis, and drinking in the beauty of the moon- 
lit landscape with ever-augmenting enjoyment. The 
Tuscans, gentry and peasantry alike, are inveterate 
draught-players, so much so, that, as far as my experi- 
ence has gone, nobody ever seems to win a game, con- 
test after contest resulting in a " draw." Their cries 
and gestures whilst engaged in this fascinating recrea- 
tion are, to say the least of them, vigorous. Bloodshed 
appears inevitable at every move ; from time to time it 
seems imperative that each adversary shall wallow in the 
other's gore, having, as a mild preliminary to that re- 
freshment, torn out his vitals and trampled them under 
foot. Nothing, however, could be more fictive than all 
the red-hot rage and furious shouting which accompanies 
every sort of social encounter in this part of Italy. The 
game being won or drawn, the political question argued 
out, or the difference of opinion adjusted, you will see 
the opponents, who but a minute previously exhibited 



THE PALAZZO ROSSI. 287 

the mien of exasperated tigers, smooth their brows and 
wreath their lips with smiles, as though by enchantment 
exchange a cordial hand-pressure, in expression of 
their mutual gratitude for having aided one another to 
pass a few minutes so pleasantly, and finally walk away 
arm-in-arm, the best friends in the world. 

During my sojourn on the Montughi hill I paid more 
than one visit to Ernesto Rossi's town-house in the 
Piazza delP Indipendenza, upon the internal decoration 
of which he has laid out sums that represent a handsome 
fortune, eyen from an English or American point of 
view. At least a dozen of the reception-rooms in this 
stately mansion are as far as their walls and ceilings 
are concerned the work of Bellandi and Panti, two of 
Florence's leading contemporary painters, the allegorical 
groups and symbolical figures having been executed by 
the former, the decorative details by the latter painter. 
The whole set of apartments is a vast repository of the 
art-treasures presented to and accumulated by Eossi in 
the course of his long theatrical career. Bronzes, 
faiences^ tapestry, porcelain, mosaics, marqueterie, Persian 
carpets, emaux cloisonne^ Toula and Moscow masterpieces 
of gold and silver work, precious bric-a-brac of every 
variety, are tastefully disposed throughout the entire 
suite of salons and boudoirs ; but the most interesting 
room of all is a small chamber, about twelve feet square, 
the last of the set, with but one door for entrance and 
issue a sort of shrine, the patron saint of which, or, 
rather, the genus loci y is Ernesto Eossi himself. In this, 
his personal " museo," are displayed, under glass, in 
massive ebony and golden, cases, the wreaths, addresses, 



288 AN ACTOR'S TREASURES. 

medals, albums, weapons, jewels and countless other 
priceless objects conferred upon Mm by monarchs, 
municipalities, universities, literary associations, and art 
clubs, in all parts of Europe, and many of Asia, Africa, 
and America. It is a collection of honours and homages 
paid to an incorporation of dramatic art, such as I 
believe to be without precedent or parallel in the annals 
of the stage. Where is the second living actor upon 
whom fourteen Imperial and Eoyal Orders of Chivalry 
have been conferred, several of them in the higher 
grades reserved for those who have rendered the State 
momentous service ? Ernesto Eossi has been laden with 
honours by his own Sovereign, as well as by the princes 
of other lands. He is a Knight-Commander of both the 
principal Italian orders, a coincidence of distinctions 
rare enough in the Ausonian Peninsula ; Eussia, France, 
Brazil, Portugal, Sweden, and Denmark, have all 
bestowed upon him the insignia of their leading chivalric 
decorations. One of the cases above alluded to is 
entirely filled with gold medals and plaques, the latter 
bearing inscriptions especially referring to his talents 
and achievements. Amongst the gorgeous addresses 
framed and hung round the room, I was glad to see one 
from nearly a hundred British actors to their " brother 
in Art," Ernesto Eossi. The first three signatures are 
those of Benjamin Webster, Henry Irving, and Samuel 
Phelps; Thomas Thorne and David James head the 
second column of autographs ; a little lower down come 
"handsome Jack Barnes, " and "Jemmy" Fernandez; 
and the roll of fame is closed by the dashing pamphe of 
Charles Warner. Not far from this interesting souvenir 



A:N T ACTORS TREA&UBES. 289 

of Bossi's first visit to London is a velvet shrine, con- 
taining an entire porcelain service, made expressly for 
its owner by order of the German Crown Prince, who 
presented it to Mm. It represents all the important 
public buildings and monuments of Berlin, and as an 
artistic chef-d'oeuvre is simply inestimable. Hard by 
stand the noble embossed and chiselled centrepiece that 
Kaiser Wilhelm sent some short time ago to Eossi, " as 
a slight testimony of admiration and regard," and the 
priceless cup bestowed by Alexander II. upon u son 
grand et cher artiste," and the rare Sevres vase, gift of the 
Italian Ministry ; and the uncut ruby, as large as a 
bantam egg, offered as u debole ommaggio al grandis- 
simo genio," by the Duke della Galliera ; and the 
splendid dirks, yataghans, stiletti, golden and jewelled 
collars, stars, &c., worn by Eossi in Macbeth, Othello, 
Hamlet, Lear, Eichard III., and other Shakespearean 
parts all these pretiosa being presents to him from 
kings, princes, and other august personages. In another 
case are some dozens of albums, containing original 
sketches, sonnets, and dedicatory verses by the leading 
painters and poets of Erance and Italy. 

In the course of the autumn holiday above referred 
to, I made the acquaintance of several interesting per- 
sons, four-legged as well "as two-legged, the most 
remarkable of whom unquestionably belonged to the 
former category. They were dogs five Italian dogs. 
Although I spent little more than a fortnight in their 
company, I contrived within that brief period to over- 
come their inborn prejudices against a foreign biped, 
and even, by the exercise of considerable patience and 

VOL. II. TJ 



290 FIVE ITALIAN BOGS. 

tact, to acquire their friendship, more or less cordially 
displayed in exact proportion to the respective sternness 
or amenity of their dispositions. Being constitutionally 
addicted to the society of dogs animals surprisingly 
quick at recognising those who wish them well, and 
rarely unrequiteful of sincere good will and having for 
many a year past been honoured with the esteem and 
confidence of several eminent members of the canine 
community, I soon succeeded in convincing these Italian 
quadrupeds that, although not their compatriot by birth, 
I was the sort of person whom an honest and self- 
respecting dog might fearlessly tolerate, and even, to a 
certain extent, rely upon. Prom relations of mere 
courtesy to those of genial intimacy the transition 
except in one case was a rapid and complete one. I 
believe myself to be justified in asserting that four of 
those five dogs made up their minds, some days before 
I took an affectionate leave of them, to regard me as a 
firm and faithful friend, to whom their material interests 
and recreations were matters worthy of serious con- 
sideration and steadfast attention. 

Such varieties of temperament, contrasts of character, 
and diversity of habits I have never before encountered 
in five individualities, canine or human. Light and 
darkness are not more dissimilar than any one of these 
dogs is to any other. They are the property of Ernesto 
Eossi, and reside in or about his beautiful villa at 
Montughi, on the hill of that name, about two miles 
from the Porta San Gallo. Their names are Flossy, 
Eio, Bozzolino, Perso, and Lupar. That is the order in 
which they rank amongst the members of the Eossi 



FLOSSY. 



291 



family. Nobody who knows any tiling about tlie charac- 
teristics of pet dogs and the qualities that especially 
endear them to their owners, will be surprised to learn 
that the most influential and "beloved of these animals is 
also the smallest in size and the most ferocious in temper. 
Born to rule, intolerant of restraint, exclusively devoted 
to the protection and furthering of his own interests, 
Flossy deserves a paragraph to himself. A psychological 
analysis of this distinguished despot, carefully drawn up, 
would fill a chapter. 

In commenting upon the character of the venerable 
Countess of Kew, Thackeray remarked that one of the 
most invaluable gifts that Nature can bestow upon any- 
body is "a fine furious temper." Of the correctness of 
that assertion my respected friend Flossy is a shining 
illustration and conclusive proof. From early puppy - 
hood to advanced senility he is at present fifteen years 
old he has bitten and snarled his way through life 
with a persevering and indomitable savageness that has 
secured to him the servile deference and implicit 
obedience of all who have been brought into contact 
with him. He may be not inaptly described as a choice 
assortment of first-class vices and evil passions neatly 
packed up in a small, fluffy, and highly decorative skin 
of creamy- white hue, A native of South America, in 
which country he had been just weaned when he was 
presented to Rossi's only daughter, Evelina, he is an 
exceptionally handsome sample of a cross between the 
Skye and Maltese breeds of long-eared terriers. At a 
time when his infant gums were still toothless, he made 
a spirited attempt, accompanied by growls of unmistak> 



292 FLOSSY. 

able spitefulness, to bite Ms young mistress, and Las ever 
since persevered in that attitude, not only towards her- 
self, but towards mankind at large. He is an irrecon- 
eileable, an " intransigeant 5? of the deepest dye an 
anthropophagist by conviction, and an inveterate hater 
of his own kind to boot. Above all, he is the 
very incarnation of ingratitude. I have seen him 
repeatedly attempt to bite the kind hand engaged in 
supplying him with his favourite dainty a cloying pre- 
paration of coffee residue and pounded loaf sugar. One 
of his most alarming habits is to all but choke himself 
by endeavouring to swallow and growl simultaneously, 
his anxiety to defy the person who has just bestowed 
upon him some tit-bit being so overpowering that he 
cannot wait to dispose of the morsel before giving vent 
to his angry feelings. I never dreamt that any creature 
short of a freshly-caught Bengal tiger could be so 
continuously irascible. As a French friend of the Eossis 
aptly said of him one evening : "II est rageur a ne pas 
y croire, ce petit gredin 1 " To touch him, ever so 
lightly and caressingly, is to elicit an explosion of choler 
that would do honour to a gouty admiral, whose chalk- 
stones had been unexpectedly administered to with a 
paviour's rammer. I studied Flossy's character closely 
and with absorbing interest, and utterly failed to dis- 
cover any redeeming quality in him. My friends told 
me that he treated me with marked and unusual par- 
tiality. If that was so, he certainly demonstrated Ms 
regard in an odd way ; for I must do Mm the justice to 
say that he bit me " wherever found." To my appre- 
hension, however, he treated everybody alike in this 



ELOSSY. 293 

respect ; I could detect no shade of preference in Ms 
manner of snapping at my hands whenever he got half 
a chance to lay hold of them. And yet Flossy is beloved 
by those about him ; nay, more- he rules the Eossi house- 
hold with practically undisputed sway. No crowned 
head is attended to more obsequiously than he. It 
is impossible to ignore him when he wants, or fancies 
he wants, anything, for until he gets it he accompanies 
conversation with an inexhaustible succession of crisp 
barks, produced at intervals of from ten to twelve 
seconds. Sometimes this performance elicits a mild 
remonstrance of " Buono, Flossy ! " or a gentle rebuke 
of " Nojoso, nojoso ! ?? from the lady of the house. 
Sometimes, when distraction is painted on the faces of 
all the guests assembled round his table, Eossi performs 
an often-rehearsed little domestic comedy, consisting in 
summoning a particular man-servant (the mere enuncia- 
tion of whose name convulses the little dog with spasms 
of ire),, and commanding him to remove the offender. 
" Emilio, piglia Flossy e portalo via ! " is the formula 
adhered to on such occasions. Its immediate result is a 
deafening outburst of indignant protest on the part of 
Flossy, upon which Eossi is wont to remark, with a 
benignant smile, " Is it not amazing how intelligent that 
dog is ? You see, he understands all that I say about 
him, come xm vero Cristiano ! " It is probably the 
indomitable spirit and valour displayed by so small an 
animal that have secured impunity to his manifold 
offences. Some years ago, another dog (of whom I shall 
have something to say presently), exasperated beyond 
bounds by Flossy ? s reckless provocations, snapped at 



294 RIO. 

him viciously, and tore Ms left eye out of its socket. 
So painful an accident it brought him. to death's door 
would have quelled the pugnacity of most dogs, at 
least for a while. It did not produce that effect upon 
Flossy. The lady who nursed him night and day 
through his danger has assured me that he growled 
at her when apparently in extremis, and bit the surgeon 
several times. I can personally testify to the unabated 
insolence of his demeanour towards the very dog from 
whom he had received a correction that well-nigh proved 
fatal to him. 

That dog is Bio, a black and white Newfoundland of 
extraordinary size and strength ; frank, impulsive, and 
masterful ; an embarrassing combination of genial good- 
nature and ungovernable jealousy. In his manners and 
utterances he is more ursine than canine. When Dame 
Nature laid down his lines, she. had a bear in her mind ; 
but, probably through some technical error, her handi- 
work turned out a dog. Eio does not live at Montughi, 
but at Eossi's Florentine palace, whence, every evening, 
he is brought u on the chain" to visit his master and 
mistress by a domestic specially affected to his service 
a mild, obsequious Tuscan, who ministers to Bio's neces- 
sities with mingled terror and pride. He is supposed to 
lead Bio ; as a matter of fact Bio leads him, or rather 
drags him along at a laborious trot, varied by involun- 
tary bounds. As the hour draws nigh at which Bio's 
nightly visit takes place, an uneasiness of deportment 
and tendency towards self-effacement make themselves 
manifest in the other Montughi dogs Mossy always 
excepted, who would not budge from his post of 'vantage 



RIO. 295 

on Signora Kossi 5 s chair were a seven-headed fiery 
dragon to enter the dining-room. Bozzolino and Perso, 
however, mysterionsly vanish, and Lupar retires to 
honourable obscurity in the stables. On arriving, Eio 
takes a preliminary canter through all the reception- 
rooms and servants' offices, with a view to ascertaining 
whether or not any other dog be lurking about on the 
premises. Having completed this tour of inspection, 
during which he is distinctly audible to the naked ear, 
he gallops into the salle-a-manger, and pays his respects 
to his master and mistress. It is during this ceremony 
that his utterances, intended to express the loyalty and 
devotion with which his heart is teeming, exactly 
resemble those of an infuriate bear, "When we first met 
he favoured me with a few remarks, purporting as I 
was subsequently informed that he was glad to see me, 
and hoped we should get on together. I thought my 
last hour was come, and stiffened my sinews for a death- 
struggle. We subsequently became excellent friends. 
I propitiated him with fowl-bones, and ultimately won 
his affection by gratifying his taste for chunks of bread- 
crust steeped in gravy. In acknowledgment of these 
attentions he would roll on his back at my feet for five 
minutes at a stretch, growling all the while like Atta 
Troll. That is Bio's way of apprising Ms particular 
friends that he is a grateful and contented dog. But 
when the jealous fit is upon him not infrequently, by 
any means the latent truculence of his nature breaks 
out, and he becomes uncontrollable, save by one a lady 
to whom dogs and men alike submit, rejoicing in their 
subjugation, I mean the Signora Padrona, my esteemed 



296 BOZZOLIXO. 

friend Evelina Bossi, who, with a word and glance, can 
always bring the fierce Newfoundland to his bearings, 
and change, as though by enchantment, the red glare of 
his angry eye into a fond and loying look. 

Bozzolino is a comic dog, of no recognised breed. His 
appearance is that of a fat fox with a curly brush and 
short legs. Under a mask of buffoonery he conceals 
great strength of will and remarkable reasoning powers. 
Seemingly volatile and eccentric, he is really a shrewd 
and painstaking student of human character. Frivolity 
with him is a means to the end; for experience has 
taught him that dog-lovers regard it as covering a mul- 
titude of sins. Bozzolino knows that a frivolous dog, 
being held irresponsible for his actions, can generally 
have his own way. He has, therefore, assiduously 
addressed himself to earning a reputation for light- 
hearted eccentricity, and with triumphant success. For 
instance, it is not his humour to sleep or breakfast at 
the villa, but at the house of one of Rossi's contadini, 
about half-way down the avenue of cedars and olive- 
trees that leads from La Macine to the high road. 
Though he is the signora's own personal dog her body- 
dog, from a German point of view she puts up with his 
residential " vagaries'' on the ground that " Bozzolino 
is so frivolous." As, after I had known Mm for a day or 
two, Bozzolino's frivolity struck me as studied rather than 
spontaneous, and somewhat more obtrusively put for- 
ward than was consistent with the inborn carelessness of 
character Attributed to Mm j as, moreover, upon several 
occasions (when he did not know I was watching him) 
I had detected an expression of consummate slyness 



BOZZOLINO. 297 

in Ms lively hazel eye, I resolved to try whether close 
observation of his habits might not enable me to divine 
his motive for dividing his time between luxury at the 
villa a very dog's paradise and frugality at the cot- 
tage. That he was a surpassingly greedy dog I knew ; 
his appetite and capacity of stowage, considered in rela- 
tion to his size, had already astonnded me : and it was his 
greediness that furnished the cine, by following up 
which I succeeded eventually in plucking out the heart 
of Bozzolino's mystery. As I have already stated, he 
never passed the night at La Macine. After dinner 
every evening, when cards or music had set in, Bozzo- 
lino disappeared, and we saw no more of him until the 
following afternoon, when, it being the signora's daily 
custom to drive into Florence at about two p.m., he was 
found awaiting her by the cottage of his choice, whence 
ho escorted her vociferously to the great iron gates of 
the domain, beyond which he declined to follow the car- 
riage. When she returned, however, no matter at what 
hour, Bozzolino was "in waiting" at the contadino's 
door, with demonstrations of exaggerated rapture, to 
accompany her home. Presently the dinner-bell rang, 
and Bozzolino took up a strategic position to the left of 
the signora's chair. From that moment till the end of 
the repast his gaze was riveted upon her face, never 
relaxing its pitiful importunity for a second, even after 
it had been responded to by food enough for two dogs of 
his calibre. His every lineament, so to speak, inferred 
privation of an altogether unbearable stringency; his 
attitude and expression were ineffably pathetic. A finer 
piece of acting in dumb-show I never witnessed, nor did 



298 PEKSO. 

it ever fail to produce the desired effect. "How hungry 
poor Bozzolino looks ! 3? the signora would say, when 
this ingenious pantomime had lasted a few minutes ; " I 
am sure those Martellis starve him ; " and a third plate- 
ful of succulent scraps would be set before Bozzolino, to 
be cleared of its contents with incredible swiftness. This 
supplement, this gross superfluity of nourishment, was 
the sole aim and end of all his assumed frivolity and 
eccentricity of habits. Had he taken his morning meal 
at home, like the other dogs, his evening pretence of 
starvation must have been promptly detected, and dis- 
grace could hardly have failed to follow exposure. His 
periodical visits to the Martellis, however, served his 
purpose perfectly, by exposing those worthy peasants 
to the imputation of keeping him on short commons, and 
thus justifying his mute claim to an extra helping. A 
dog who could mature and carry out to its most delicate 
detail so subtle and elaborate a plan as the above, is a 
loss to Italian diplomacy. His name should be Machia- 
velli, not Bozzolino. 

Perso's connection with the Kossi family originated, 
as his name indicates, in his being a lost dog. This waif 
is yellow, long, and wiry, suggesting a Yorkshire tyke 
which has made lifelong but ineffectual efforts to become 
a deerhound. His owners know him to bo an unusually 
confused mongrel ; but, in describing him to inquisitive 
foreigners, they keep up a kindly fiction to the effect 
that he represents a rare and curious variety of Apennino 
sheep-dog. I have observed that they only utter this 
myth in his presence ; from which fact I infer that it 
was invented with a view to raising him in his own esti- 



PERSO. 299 

mation, or at least to sparing him the humiliation of 
being referred to as a nondescript. Appearances are 
certainly against Perso ; they could not well be more so ; 
but the proyerb says they are deceitful, and in his case 
the proverb is right. A gentler, humbler, more forgiv- 
ing, affectionate creature never drew breath. He is a 
very worm for meekness and diffidence. His spirits 
must have been suddenly knocked down, probably in 
early life, by some tremendous domestic calamity, and 
he has never been able to pick them up. When other 
dogs bite him he only howls, and creeps away sorrow- 
fully to lick his wounds in private. His attitude towards 
society at large is a recumbent and inverted one ; called 
or spoken to, even in the friendliest tone, he falls down 
prostrate, turns limply over upon his back, and folds up 
his four paws, expectant of the worst, but deprecating 
excessive violence. u Kick me," he seems to say ; a you 
have a right to do so. Heaven forefend that I should 
question that right, or resent its exercise. But, if one 
so abject may venture to offer a suggestion, do not 
utterly pulverise me. Leave me life enough to permit 
of my licking your hand, and humbly thanking you for 
a well-merited correction." He is afraid of everything ; 
I might say of nothing, for I have seen him start and 
shiver at his own shadow ; but, above all else, of Eio, 
who one day, in a paroxysm of jealousy, took a mouthful 
out of his head. "When Porso hoars his enemy's bark, 
far away down the avenue, he begins to tremble in every 
limb, as though smitten with palsy ; he disposes of his 
tail and ears in such sort that they all but vanish from 
sight, and glides away in a spectral manner to the nearest 



300 PEESO. 

hiding-place. If discovered by the Newfoundland, who 
sometimes takes especial pains to hunt him up, he 
grovels before that overbearing tyrant, gasping with 
affright, and whimpering for mercy. As a rule Rio, con- 
tented with having demonstrated his mastery over the 
only other large dog in the establishment, sniffs at him 
contemptuously, utters a monitory growl or two, and 
turns away with his nose in the air, as from something 
too despicably low to merit further attention. After an 
interview of this class, hours elapse before Persons nerves 
recover from the shock they have sustained. He retires 
to a corner, coils himself up tight, and shakes. Perso, 
however, must have his moments of expansiveness, and 
cannot be insensible to the passion of love ; for having 
noticed upon different occasions, whilst driving about 
the neighbourhood of Montughi, several melancholy 
mongrels bearing more or less resemblance to my 
abashed friend at La Macine, I ventured to inquire 
whether these, too, were Apennine dogs of any peculiar 
breed, and received the answer : " Sono figli di Perso." 
I could not have credited him with the courage to woo ; 
but, with respect to the number of his offspring, it 
appears that he is quite a patriarch. Possibly he finds 
consolation in family joys for the wrongs of his blighted 
youth and for the general deconsideration brought upon 
him by his pusillanimity. No dog to whose name the 
adjective "poor" is invariably prefixed when he is 
addressed, or even casually mentioned, can enjoy the 
proud moral voluptuousness of self-respect in connection 
with his social relations ; but it may be that ho is looked 
up to by his own wives and children, and I have reason 



LTJTPAR. 301 

to believe that Perso assumes an air of mild authority in 
his domestic circles. Unseen myself, I have more than 
once seen him playfully rebuke one of his consorts 
Lupar, the last of the five Italian dogs inadequately dealt 
with in this hasty sketch by biting her ears. He is, 
moreover, somewhat peremptory with his fleas. This 
trait, and his conspicuous expertness as a fly-catcher, 
incline me to the opinion that Perso has some latent 
energy about him, and will some day astonish his friends 
by taking his own part ; perhaps, even, by growling. 

Of Lupar, Perso's khanoum or chief wife, I wish to 
speak with such moderation as may be compatible with 
my painful remembrance of the harassing personal in- 
convenience and annoyance inflicted upon me by" that 
execrable animal during my sojourn at La Macine. She 
is, perhaps, not so much a dog as a highly ingenious 
and efficient self-winding-up engine for the production of 
barks. Not admitted to the interior of the villa I could 
never lure her even to cross its threshold she is sup- 
posed to reside in a kennel specially affected to her use 
upon a broad stone terrace fronting the house. It is her 
official function, however, to keep watch over Rossi's 
property ; consequently, she persistently abstains from 
availing herself of the accommodation provided for her, 
and lopes up and down the aforesaid terrace from dewy 
eve to sparkling morn, discharging several hundred 
thousand powerful barks during the hours usually de- 
voted to slumber. As far as she and the miscreants she 
is supposed to frighten away are concerned, nothing ever 
comes of this dreadful practice. Rossi's vines are plun- 
dered with impressive regularity by nocturnal amateurs 
of the grape, who carry off their booty unmolested, and. 



302 LUPAR. 

I dare say smiling. But the effect of Lupar on tempo- 
rary residents at La Macine is disastrous, maddening, 
and by reason of the language it provokes eminently 
prejudicial to their salvation. A good many dogs inhabit 
the Arno valley, and pass their nights al fresco. Lnpar 
renders them incessantly and hideously vocal for many a 
mile. They would be as silent as oysters but for her. 
Whenever bronchial fatigue compels her to pause for a 
few seconds their yelping at once dies out, and peace 
reigns over Tuscany. As soon as she has recovered 
breath, however, she starts them off again with a fresh 
solo, and they take up their choral parts as vivaciously 
as though murdering sleep were an honourable and 
lucrative profession. Then Tuscany, or at least the 
stranger within its gates, becomes wakeful again, and 
impairs its physical prospects by a desperate endeavour 
to exhaust the Italian vocabulary of expletives. Lupar 
is the head and front of all this offending, and her moral 
responsibilities must, by this time, be something tremen- 
dous, for, as I am credibly informed, she has shattered 
the rest of an entire commune every night, and all night 
long, throughout two long years. If maledictions could 
have consumed her during my experiences of her itera- 
tive capacities, there would not have been an ash of her 
left on the second morning after my arrival at Montughi. 
Fortunately for her, "words are but breath, and breath 
a vapour is." I parted from her without sorrow, how- 
ever, and fondly hope I may never hear her bark again. 
She is the only one of the five Italian dogs I mot at 
Ernesto Eossi's country house whose idiosyncrasies 
caused me unmitigated distress, and still rankle in my 
memory. 



CHAPTER XI. 

ENGLISHMEN ABROAD. FOREIGN COOKERY AND BRITISH 

REQUIREMENTS. UNFREQUENTED CONTINENTAL NOOKS. 

SPAS AND " WATER-PL AYS." A DULL CAPITAL. 

DURING my long sojourn on the Continent of Europe, 
countless experiences gathered amongst such of my 
fellow-countrymen as were, like myself, voluntary exiles 
from the land of their birth, led me to conclude that 
Britons who liye abroad are, as a rule, never weary of 
inveighing against the local customs and arrangements 
that compel them to revolutionise their domestic habits. 
With the things they can get, as well as with the 
manner of getting them and of dealing with them when 
they are gotten, they are supremely dissatisfied. The 
things they cannot get become invested to their appre- 
hension with a charm that was altogether wanting when 
such articles were easily and cheaply procurable. In 
their secret souls they glorify these things, and insensibly 
fall into a habit of identifying them with English insti- 
tutions, also lacking to them during their term of foreign 
sojourn. Thus the concrete and the abstract become 
ranged in the same category of grievances, which will be 
found in the minds of Englishmen resident upon the 
Continent to include comestibles and principles of go- 



304 CONTINENTAL DRAWBACKS. 

vernment, cooking and political economy. Chops and 
Constitutionalism, bloaters and the Bill of Eights, Finnan 
haddocks and Habeas Corpus, lamb's fry and liberty of 
the subject, fish sauce and freedom of the press, get 
mixed up in the heterogeneous catalogue of things which 
the self-exiled Briton finds he has to do without, and 
over which he ponders resentfully, despising the be- 
nighted u foreigners," who not only manage to exist 
without them, but aggravate his chronic irritation by 
failing to evince any urgent want of them. 

It is, for instance, a mystery to him, opening out a 
wide field of ill-tempered conjecture, that the mutton- 
chop, that juicy and toothsome staple of British nourish- 
ment, should be an unknown viand throughout Conti- 
nental Europe, save and except in one or two capital cities 
largely colonised by his countrymen, such as Paris and 
Brussels. If he inhabit Germany or Italy it is a source 
of offence to him that tradesmen cannot be induced to 
call at his house,. for orders, or fall in, with Ms insular 
system of little red-covered books fraught with illegible 
entries, or sell him anything at a fixed price without 
going through the ceremonial of a bargain, or take his 
cheque for the amount of their weekly or monthly bills, 
if he can succeed in persuading a foreign banker to give 
him a cheque-book. With bitterness at his heart he 
sees himself coerced into committing plenary powers of 
selection and purchase to his cook, who fritters away 
half of the time which is his property in trudging about 
from one market-place to another, and whose arithmetical 
acquirements, the outcome of compulsory national educa- 
tion, enable her to fleece him with an adroitness that 



CONTINENTAL DRAWBACKS. 305 

defies detection. Tea, his morning and evening solace in 
his natiye land, costs from, five to fifteen shillings a 
pound, and in the infusion it yields with that seeming 
reluctance which never fails to perplex the Englishman 
abroad, he strives in vain to recognise the familiar flavour 
of the beverage cherished in his memory as a good English 
cup of tea. The artificer who devised his kitchen range 
knew nothing of toast, and therefore made no provision 
for the possible confection of that crisp and appetizing 
substance. British stout and pale ale can be purchased 
in well-nigh every Continental town of more than five 
thousand inhabitants, but for the most part at a price 
which is practically prohibitive to the English resident 
abroad, as well as to the native with a moderate compe- 
tence, who ranks our potent malt liquor among the 
luxuries In which he may only excuse himself for Indulg- 
ing upon occasions when reckless expenditure supersedes 
prudent thrift, such as a family anniversary, or the day 
upon which his lottery ticket is drawn a prize. Belgium 
Is our near neighbour and good friend, well acquainted 
with the merits of our bcor, and consuming it in con- 
siderable quantity : yet there are hotels in Brussels 
where three shillings and fourpence are charged for a 
quart-bottlo of stout, nearly its price at St. Petersburg 
or Bucharest, and more than double its retail value in 
Pokin, whither it has to be carried from the waterside in 
baskets by Chinese coolies. Sherry, dry, bitter, and some- 
what medicinal, such as his palate loveth, the Briton 
abroad must also forego, even in the country of its 
growth. Money will not buy it in any French, Belgian, 
German, or Italian city ; whilst in Eastern Europe it Is 

VOL. II. X 



306 THE GERMAN VIEW OF BABBIT. 

about as easy to procure for yourself a glass of Amontil- 
lado or old "brown Xeres as to obtain a four-leaved sham- 
rock or the egg of a Cornish chough. Indeed the name 
is legion of things liked by the average Englishman, 
articles of his dietary, which he must resign himself to 
abstain from in one or the other part of the Continent, if 
his destiny or worldly circumstances compel him to take 
up his abode upon an alien soil. For instance, when he 
enters the German or Austro-Hungarian Empire, re- 
solved therein to sojourn, he must bid adieu to the 
brisk and succulent rabbit, with which delicate rodent, 
roasted "with a pudding in its belly," as old cookery 
books prescribe, or sympathetically smothered in creamy 
onion-sauce, he was wont to regale himself in his sea- 
girt isle. The indigenous untravelled German lives not 
who, having slain a rabbit in field or wood, would send 
it to market for sale, far less eat it himself. The poorest 
Hausfrau of the Fatherland, to whom meat of any legi- 
timate description legitimate from her point of view 
is an object that she contemplates with eager longing 
and holy ambition, would turn with loathing and horror 
from a plump rabbit if it were offered to her at a pfening 
a pound. "Whence this vehement antipathy to rabbit's 
flesh arises, and what becomes of all the rabbits annually 
slaughtered in Germany their skins turn up in tens of 
thousands at the great yearly Leipzig Messe are ques- 
tions suggestive of grave economical speculation. A 
curious culinary problem is presented for solution by the 
treatment accorded throughout Germany to venison in 
the course of its preparation for the table. The term 
venison, as understood in Great Britain, can scarcely be 



CONTINENTAL COOKEBY. 307 

held accurately to describe the German relibrafon, which 
is the flesh of the roebuck, carefully rid of every particle 
of fat bestowed upon, it by nature, and then as carefully 
larded with strips of fat bacon, which neutralise its ori- 
ginal flavour, and substitute for it that of gamey pork. 
To the noble fallow haunch, with its rich adipose super- 
stratum that melts in the mouth, as well as to the lordly 
turtle and seductive sucking pig, the British settler in 
Germany and Italy must also bid a tender farewell. In 
the former country, too, he will yearn for roast meat in 
vain, for Germans bake their joints, poultry, and game, 
and a spit or a revolving jack will only be found in 
old-fashioned country houses or in brand-new city hotels, 
fitted out with every imaginable appliance, ancient and 
modern, for converting fish, flesh, and fowl into items of 
a cosmopolitan menu. Moreover, his quest for sea-kale, 
vegetable marrow, and Jerusalem artichokes, will prove 
vain. The crab is unknown as a comestible to the 
children of Tout a curious circumstance, taking into 
consideration their national predilection for indigestible 
substances while he is eagerly devoured, before he 
arrives at years of discretion, together with all manner 
of quaint natural phenomena born of the sea, by the 
inhabitants of the Italian coasts, under the comprehensive 
designation of "frutto di mare." 

Wo doubt whether the Englishman's inherent pro- 
pensity for grumbling is not, during his residence abroad, 
as keenly stimulated by the unaccustomed substances^ 
eatable and drinkable, which he finds himself expected 
to consume, as by the impossibility of obtaining other 
articles of nourishment with which he has been agreeably 



308 CONTINENTAL COOKERY. 

familiar from the days of his earliest youth. In France 
the intelligence and solicitude with which the art of 
cookery is practised speedily reconcile the British palate 
to an enforced abstinence from its national dishes, and 
have even " been known to stifle the poignant regrets 
experienced by a true-born Anglo-Saxon when pork-pies 
and roley-poley puddings surge up in his remembrance. 
There are, however, few other Continental countries that 
do not present to the islander objects, avowedly intended 
to furnish his inner man, which are in the highest degree 
calculated to amaze and disconcert him. The dietary of 
provincial Spain teems with compounds appalling to two, 
if not three, of an Englishman's senses. Beans, seeth- 
ing in questionable oil, and reeking of indubitable garlic, 
are apt to generate abject consternation in any but a 
Spanish breast ; and few Englishmen can contemplate 
with impunity a greasy olla or a malodorous puckero. A 
long training upon German delicacies is required ere 
one not to the manner born can bring himself to make 
a hearty meal off smoked, but otherwise uncooked, 
breast of goose, fat eels imbedded in soxir jolly, and 
cabbage in an advanced stage of decomposition, washing 
these stupendous viands down with copious draughts of 
" white beer," a liquor of paramount mawkishness, the 
taste and appearance of which suggest that it is mainly 
composed of soda-water, small eider, and soapsuds. In 
Eussia the ruddy British countenance is liable to be 
sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought by the 
malignant influences of stschchi } a peculiarly revolting 
variety of cabbage soup gruesomely enriched with sour 
cream ; nor is lorsch, an acrid pottage of fish and roe, an 



CC OWL, HAWK, AND SERPENT." 309 

altogether agreeable surprise to a person brought into 
contact with it for the first time. The Italian cuisine is 
chiefly remarkable for its exhaustive utilisation for 
human food of members of the animal kingdom, which, 
in less economical countries, enjoy the most perfect and 
absolute immunity from the claims of spit and stewpan. 
A fine genial freedom from prejudice characterises the 
humbler customers of the Eoman poulterer, who shocks 
no native susceptibilities by exposing for sale foxes, 
hedgehogs, cats, and moles, as well as an infinite variety 
of birds of prey. It is one of tlie cheerfullest traditions 
of the Gaffe Greco that Captain Cecil Johnson, a well- 
known Queen's Messenger and citizen of the world, 
who some years ago had imprudently accepted an invi- 
tation to dine "at home J? with a purely Eoman family 
to which he had rendered some kindly service, making 
after-dinner rendezvous with some English acquaintances 
for the same evening, was seen by these latter to enter 
the murky sala in which they were awaiting him with 
a hurried yet faltering step, a pallid cheek, and an 
agitated mien. Greeted with the friendly interrogation, 
"Well, Johnson, what sort of a dinner did you get? " 
he sank down in the nearest vacant chair, groaned 
deeply, and replied, in a sepulchral voice, "Dinner! 
Do you call carrion dinner ? Upon my faith and honour, 
as a Christian and a British officer, I have this day been 
solicited to cat, severally and successively, owl, hawk, 
and .serpent ! " 

No one who reads the daily papers can have failed of 
late years to observe that tho British tourist who, dread- 
ing tho fitful humours of tho "silver streak, 75 performs 



310 TABLES-D ? HOTE. 

Ms annual pilgrimage in search of health and recreation 
strictly within the confines of this sea-girt isle, is moved 
to ungovernable indignation "by the expensive but unap- 
petising fare and audacious " extras " of provincial 
hostelries 3 and vents his griefs in angry or plaintive 
protests, for the most part addressed to the editors of 
metropolitan newspapers and intended for publication. 
The minor charges that swell a seaside or lakeside hotel- 
bill to unnatural proportions are a standing offence to 
him. By the time he has spent a fortnight in an 
English sanatorium u service " has blighted his holiday 
bliss and " candles" have entered into his soul. Of the 
costly persistence with which these vexatious items 
figure in his weekly bills he is never weary of complain- 
ing. But a still more frequently-recurring affliction is 
the monotonous and uninteresting character of his daily 
table d'h6te meals. The table d'hote system of feeding 
the tourist is an exotic growth which, imported into this 
country some years ago from, foreign parts, has found 
here a congenial soil and has flourished exceedingly. It 
would seem, however, that the spirit of enterprise prompt- 
ing its introduction exhausted itself in the achievement 
of that surprising innovation. The national conservatism, 
which had suffered rude repression through the adoption 
of Communistic principles into the philosophy of the 
dinner-table, cropped out vigorously in the cookery pur- 
porting to supply that table with superior gastronomical 
attractions. Radical reform, Continental in origin and 
levelling in tendency, effected a solid lodgment in the 
British hotel dining-room; but the Tories of the kitchen 
stood gallantly by their professional traditions, and, like 



TABLES-D'HOTE. 311 

tlie sublimely suicidal Pickwickian crumpet-eater, con- 
clusively proved tliat they " wouldn't be put out of their 
way by nobody." "Without detracting from its many 
solid merits and wholesome qualities, it may fairly be 
said of our English cuisine that it is somewhat lacking 
in originality of conception and high executive finish. 
In its adaptation to the diurnal requirements of an 
ordinary at a fixed price, it has not hitherto exhibited 
any fascinating variety, but rather a ponderous unifor- 
mity, admirably in keeping, it must be admitted, with 
the prevalent dulness of British holiday resorts. The 
modern tourist of the upper and middle classes, however, 
accustomed to changeful and toothsome diet at his club 
or London restaurant, where he occasionally finds relief 
from the virtuous plainness of domestic cookery,, is 
inclined to be exacting with respect alike to the com- 
position of his table d'hdte menu and the culinary treat- 
ment of its individual items. Unfortunately, the British 
ordinary, as usually administered in fashionable water- 
ing-places and sanatoria, fails to meet his views in either 
regard ; and, if haply he belong to the untravelled cate- 
gory of holiday-makers, he is apt to institute a mental 
contrast between the tameness and sameness of his 
native table d'hdte and a succulent and florid foreign 
ideal, mainly the creation of his own fancy. 

Few popular delusions are more intrinsically fallacious 
than that entertained by the majority of Englishmen 
unfamiliar with the Continent, that the average table 
d ? h6te abroad teems with triumphs of the culinary art 
and is, above all, characterised by an agreeably bewil- 
dering variety of dishes, one more appetising than the 



312 TABLES-D'HOTE. 

other. This illusory notion stimulates many an insular 
lover of good cheer to incur the cost and inconvenience 
of a foreign trip, only to reap an abundant crop of gas- 
tronomic disappointments. Throughout the European 
mainland, in summer and autumn haunts where tourists 
most do congregate, table d'h6te dinners, as a rule, are 
cast in one and the same mould. As uniformly unevent- 
ful as the British ordinary, they are even less satisfac- 
tory, as far as their capacity for ministering to a healthy 
appetite is concerned. In first-class foreign hotels, 
moreover, dinners of this sort are every whit as expen- 
sive as they are in English hotels of similar rank. 
Common to both is a thin, pale soup, supremely genteel 
and of a curiously mawkish flavour. This nondescript 
liquor, languidly floating in which may be perceived a 
few sickly-looking farinaceous tatters, known in com- 
merce by the title of "pte d'ltalie," is the subtle 
invention of some astute French table d'hote proprietor, 
upon whose frugal mind, in the earlier clays of the institu- 
tion, the exquisite expediency of quelling his clients' 
appetites at the very inception of their repast, flashed 
with dazzling brilliancy. That so cheap and effective 
a check upon public hunger should have found an enthu- 
siastic welcome upon every alien shore at the hands of 
admiring hotel-keepers was no more than might have 
been expected by their natural enemies of the tourist 
class. In immediate sequence to the nauseating broth 
comes a livid fish of unfamiliar species and discouraging 
aspect, whose utter tastelessness is atoned for by its 
accompanying sauce, of thick consistence and bilious hue 
bright yellow or low-toned green. Another inevitable 



CONTINENTAL ORDINARIES. 313 

accessory of this dismal fish, is the never-floury Conti- 
nental potato, cut into damp cubes a very deadly viand. 
Next comes the compact and sodden fricandeau of veal, 
garnished with a slab pottage of boiled sorrel, turnip- 
tops, or, in lavishly-administered hotels, real spinach. 
As an alternative to the fricandeau, a bristling array of 
mutton-cutlets, displaying a maximum of slender, shiny 
bone to a minimum of dark and sinewy flesh, is freely 
handed round. These illfavoured and worse-flavoured 
delicacies lead up insinuatingly to the a roast," or piece 
of resistance, consisting invariably of fowls sparsely 
bedecked with limp watercress, and smitten into several 
splintery sections by a few sharp blows with a kitchen 
hand-axe. It is in Germany that this dainty may be 
enjoyed in its perfection, that is, from a table d'hote 
keeper's point of view. The Teutonic chicken is a 
brittle bird, reluctant while alive to acquire flesh, but 
unrivalled in the production of osseous substance and 
wiry tendon. Over-roasted, and prepared with a hatchet 
for distribution, this remarkable biped may fairly claim 
to be the German hotel-keeper's best friend, for it is at 
once cheap, nasty, and uncommonly filling at the price. 
It were superfluous to record those incidents of the 
average Continental ordinary that sxicceed the spectral 
and stony fowl, its point of culmination. Subsequent 
events are rarely of much practical interest, nutritively 
considered. Any detailed reference to the stock dessert, 
by which such a repast is appropriately wound up ? could 
not but recall painful remembrances to those whose daily 
lot it has been, during some sad summer tour through 
Central Europe, to contemplate the grim mockeries of 



314 CONTINENTAL ORDINARIES/ 

fruit, sweetmeats, and pasticceria that follow, hard at 
heel, upon a course of malodorous cheese and pallid oleo- 
margarine. The " disillusionments " of a typical foreign 
table d'h6te are many and cumulative. Not the least 
agonising of them is the ration of wine, too frequently 
included among their nefarious claims to public support. 
Anything more distressing to the palate and dolorous to 
the inner man than the liquid familiar to travelling 
Englishmen under the equally prohibitive designations 
of "vin ordinaire " or " vin du pays" cannot be con- 
ceived by the most lugubrious imagination. Directly, 
however, this malignant beverage is foregone for some 
tolerably drinkable substitute, the boasted cheapness of 
the table d ? h6te dinner vanishes into thin air. All 
really good wines are no cheaper, if not dearer, in the 
countries of their growth that is, when retailed by 
hotel-keepers than they are in England. On the whole, 
it may be confidently assumed that the fresh fish and 
unassuming roast joint of a British table d'h6te entitle 
it to preference over the pretentious rubbish served at 
similar entertainments abroad. Were the attractions of 
foreign holiday resorts limited to the quality of their 
ordinaries, few Englishmen, after one melancholy expe- 
rience, would pay a second visit, at least for pleasure, to 
German spas or Italian cities famous for their architec- 
tural antiquities, galleries of paintings, or picturesque 
surroundings. It is in the wealth of its recreative 
resources that the Continent surpasses this country not 
in the excellence or variety of its table d'hote dinners. 

Perhaps it may not be inopportune to call the average 
"roving Englishman's' 7 attention to the circumstance, 



EUROPEAN NOO.KS. 315 

by Mm. for the most part ignored, that the Ehine is 
not the only picturesque riyer attainable by train and 
navigable by pleasure- steamers ; that the Continent is 
not altogether forlorn of meritorious mountains, other 
than the Alps and Pyrenees ; and that noisome medi- 
cinal waters may be imbibed, fresh from Dame Nature's 
hygeian tap, elsewhere than amongst Bohemian hills or 
on the slopes of the Taunus. There exist, indeed, many 
pleasant nooks and corners in Europe, somewhat out of 
the tourist's beaten track, but by no means difficult to 
come at, thanks to the extraordinary developments of 
the Continental railway system that have accrued within 
the last few years scenes of wondrous beauty and 
teeming with historical associations of imperishable 
interest, which cannot fail to amply reward summer and 
autumn holiday-travellers for some slight departure 
from the well-worn grooves traced and deepened for 
them by successive generations of peripatetic Britons. 
Family tradition, the force of example, a deeply rooted 
aversion to small discomforts and most ineradicable of 
all the middle-class Englishman's innate conservatism, 
which incessantly prompts him to " rather bear the ills 
he hath than fly to others that he knows not of," deter 
the majority of Anglo-Saxon tourists, emancipated from 
professional or business pursuits for six or eight weeks 
annually, from striking out a new holiday-path for 
themselves. "We are still to a great extent, and often 
quite unconsciously, bondsmen to precedent and fain to 
be guided by what we choose to recognise as " good 
authority " no less so with respect to our plans for 
recreation than in our opinions and other more serious 



316 EUROPEAN NOOKS. 

life-matters. Brown junkets on the Ehine because Ms 
father did so before him and found it good ; Bobinson, 
who pins his faith to Smith, has repeatedly heard from 
the latter that " Homburg is an awfully jolly place to 
spend one's vacation in," and to Homburg he goes with 
unswerving directness ; Jones selects Paris as the goal 
of his holiday expedition, on the general ground that 
"all the best English people are sure to turn up on the 
boulevards at some time or other, you know." And 
so on, through the tale of homely British names that is 
told at such amazing length in the pages of Kelly 
exceptis esrcipiendis^ of course. Venturesome originality 
in the choice of a summer route is not unfroquently dis- 
played by the owners of patronymics reverently recorded 
by Debrett and Burke ; but excursionists of this class, 
having much more time at their disposal than the 
ordinary pleasure-seeking toiler, are apt to lash out into 
trans-oceanic trips, the Continent of Europe not afford- 
ing them sufficient scope for the gratification of their 
ambitions in the way of travel. They may bo heard of 
at the Sandwich Islands or the Antipodes on Western 
prairies or at Eastern shrines. Their visits gladden 
Grand Cairo and are the joy of Jeddo Canada makes 
much of them, and their advent is annually awaited with 
absorbing anxiety in the Holy Land. 

Somehow or other, it never, or at least very seldom, 
occurs to these enterprising patricians or millionaires 
that it might be worth their while to explore the un- 
familiar European nooks and comers to which allusion 
has been made above. To the middle-class British 
tourist, it is no exaggeration to say that they arc abso- 



THE CARPATHIAN REGION.. 317 

lutely terrce incognito. An Anglo-Saxon is well-nigh as 
rare an apparition to the Carpathian populations as a 
camel or a comet. And yet the Carpathians teem with 
loyely scenery ; their fastnesses are penetrable, on their 
either slope, Tby rail, and are moreover, traversed by 
excellent metalled roads, within a three days' journey 
from Charing Cross. How many English excursionists 
cross the Passes of the Bed Tower or Dragon during the 
ruddy autumn-tide, or seek shelter from the fierce 
summer-heats in the leafy Transylvanian valleys, peopled 
by four of the oomeliest and most picturesque races that 
Eastern Europe can boast of-^the statuesque Eouman, 
sturdy Saxon, lithe Tsigan, and swart Szekler ? How 
many put in an appearance, from one year's end to 
another, at Mehadia, or are cognisant of that rock-bound 
sanatorium's existence? No sweeter spot, no more 
romantic sojourn, than Mehadia can be found in all the 
favoured holiday -haunts of Germany, Austria, or Italy. 
Its waters, too, are sufficiently nasty to content the most 
curious connoisseur or difficile dilettante in loathsome 
liquids. Taken internally they will' at least, so Dacian 
doctors say cure every ill that flesh is heir to. Applied 
externally, one variety of them will agreeably redden 
the blackest of hair, and impart a fashionable hue, ardent 
and uniform, to the flaxen mop of unsophisticated child- 
hood or the silvery locks of wily old age. Socially speak- 
ing, the Roumanian clement predominates at Mehadia ; 
and no Englishman of cheerful disposition, tolerably 
emancipated from Dumbledowiideary prejudices, could 
wish for more agreeable holiday associates than the 
debonair descendants of Trajan's prmtors and centurions, 



318 MEHABIA. 

or of the Phanariote nobles whom Turkey, in past 
centuries, masterfully grafted upon the ancient Dacian 
aristocracy. To Mehadia's pleasant annual gatherings 
Servia contributes the fine fieur of Belgradian in most 
respects the converse of Belgravian official and diplo- 
matic circles, whilst Hungary is favourably represented 
by a sprinkling of magnates from the Banat and Sieben- 
biirgen, excellent sportsmen, skilful players of ecarte 
and tarok, of whose periodical pilgrimages to Carpathian 
springs hydropathy is the pretext and pastime the pur- 
pose. To amateurs of feminine beauty, Mehadia offers 
exceptional attractions. Eoumania and Hungary are 
veritable nurseries of pretty women, as gracious in 
manner as they are graceful in form and carriage ; and 
the more massive charms of Servian dames and damsels 
will be found to bear comparison with those of the Tras- 
teverine, still celebrated throughout Italy for grandeur 
of shape and justness of proportions. From an artistic 
point of view, the leading characteristic of these three 
semi-Oriental races is unquestionably richness of colour, 
in men and women alike. The latter are endowed in 
common with luxuriant hair, white and regular teeth, 
warmly-tinted complexions, and large lustrous eyes. 
They are delightful companions, altogether untainted by 
blue-stocking proclivities and refreshingly disdainful of 
"Woman's Emancipation, In the geography of schools 
they may readily be caught tripping ; but their know- 
ledge of every landmark and accident du terrain in the 
Pays de 1' Amour is equally accurate and exhaustive. 
No spot more propitious to the prosecution of this par- 
ticular branch of study, under amiable and accomplished 



ADRIATIC NOOKS. 319 

teachers, could be selected as the scene of a brief but 
thrilling holiday romance, than Mehadia. 

The Carpathians, which constitute, roughly speaking, 
four-fifths of the Eoumanian frontier, describing a huge 
irregular curve, from the southern, or Danubian boun- 
dary of Lesser "Wallachia to the extreme eastern limits 
of Lower Moldavia, abutting upon Eussian territory, 
abound in picturesque nooks and corners, hitherto un- 
explored by the British tourist, to whom they offer 
every imaginable variety of sylvan and mountain scenery. 
So do the Austrian shores of the blue Adriatic, easily 
accessible by the comfortable Lloyds' steamers that per- 
form mail and passenger service between Trieste and the 
Levant with convenient frequency and admirable punc- 
tuality, touching at all the points of interest on the 
Illyrian and Dalmatian coasts between Capo d'Istria and 
the Bocche di Cattaro. One of the wonders of Europe 
is to be seen at Pola a noble Eoman amphitheatre, the 
imposing circle of which is not maimed, like that of the 
Eoman Coliseum, by barbarous inroads upon its ma- 
terial, but rears its massive stone rings on high, storey 
upon storey, in an extraordinary state of preservation. 
Austria's magnificent naval arsenal, the pride of Pola 
harbour, is also well worth a visit. Farther down the 
coast, stowed away at the very end of a deep bite in the 
huge Quarnero cliffs, lies Lussinpiccolo, the quaintest of 
little maritime burghs, inhabited by fishermen and 
sailors who are also growers of grapes from which a 
pleasant sharpish wine is made. Tall muscular fellows 
are the Lussignani two-languaged men, brave and 
industrious Slavs by race, but subjugated of old by 



320 ZABA. 

Venice, and skilled in the soft Italian dialect of their 
victress, Zara, again, is an Adriatic town that will "be 
found to exercise a strange fascination upon lovers of 
the picturesque. It is stone- walled towards the sea, and 
bears the stamp of Venetian rule the Lion of St. Mark 
as it were upon its very face, obtrusively and defiantly* 
To enter it, you must pass through narrow gates, mere 
slits in its mural masonry, and mount long flights of 
steps, in some places hewn out of the living rock. Steep 
streets, paved with huge flagstones, like those of Genoa 
and the older parts of Florence, lead tortuously upwards 
to the fashionable part of the town, where reside the 
magnates of a decadent local aristocracy in grim old 
pala&zi) and the great man of the long, straggling, 
slender province the Dalmatian Governor-General, a 
sublime Excellency who, being an Austrian officer, is 
urbane and kindly to the wandering foreigner properly 
introduced to his notice. Wonderful streets are those of 
Zara, with their open-air cafes, awned in from the sun's 
searching rays, and their bewildering variety of handi- 
crafts, plied with infinite clatter and chatter sub Jove 
calido. But even their manifold attractions must yield 
the palm in interest to those of the Spalato vicoU, which, 
considered either from the artistic or antiquarian point 
of view, are unrivalled upon the eastern coast of the 
Adriatic. Spalato may be said, with but slight exaggera- 
tion, to be built of, and into, Diocletian's palace, surely 
the mightiest, vastest edifice ever erected by an intelli- 
gent tyrant to his own self-glorification* This unique 
city is a sort of architectural hybrid, Yenice blent with, 
or rather welded into. Borne the ornate and' decorative^ 



BAG-USA. 321 

simple In form, but complex in treatment. Ingeniously 
accommodated to the grandiose and classical. Lovely 
Bagusa, too, cowering cosily under the frowning brows 
of the HerzegoVinian mountains, with her fawn-coloured, 
ancient castle and menacing modern hill-forts, her 
patrician palaces, her noble Stradone, enchanting Bos- 
chetto and strange plump attendant island of Lacroma, 
" very like a whale " Eagusa of the creamy wall-tints, 
the dazzling oleanders, the deep blue bay and the broad 
stone piazze, surrounded by admirable specimens of the 
sterner Venetian architecture, may claim rank as the 
paragon of " unfrequented nooks " well deserving that a 
fair summer holiday month, at least, should be spent 
within her romantic precincts. Avis aux lecteurs ! 

Spa I mean the Spa, of course, the one that owns 
the sway of the Belgian Lion during the months of 
August and September periodically proves itself to be 
a watering-place in the active as well as passive sense of 
the word. The picturesque little sanatorium is by its 
nature a dampish sort of paradise. When the rest of 
Nature's face cracks all over, even as the surface of an 
" Old Master," and is become subfusk in hue with sheer 
feverish dryness, Spa, like Glamorganshire, Ellarney, 
and the Sakkammcrgut, remains agreeably humid, just 
steaming a little to show that it is not utterly insensible 
to solar influence. A moderate shower converts it in,to 
a watershed; heavy weather makes it ooze at every 
pore; and, after a fortnight's rain or so, it becomes so 
inveterately diluvian that one would scarcely be surprised 
at encountering a portly pleslosaurus waddling along 
the Promenade, or at finding the baccarat Institution 

VOL. II. Y 



'322 SPA. 

exclusively occupied by a speculative gathering of gay 
young mammoths, punting away with the recklessness 
of inexperience. What, indeed, should such amphibious 
innocents know about punts ? So uninterruptedly did 
the rain pelt or dribble during the last of my many 
sojourns in Spa, and so strong became the impression 
upon me that I had somehow or other harked back to a 
tertiary formation in the drenched and sloppy condition 
presumably characterising it prior to the genesis of prae- 
historic man, that had I, whilst struggling under a 
dripping umbrella from the circulating library to the 
Bedoute, collided with a full-grown pterodactyle, I 
should have contemplated him without astonishment, 
raised my hat apologetically, and, murmuring "Pardon, 
Monsieur B6Mmoth ! ?? pursued my slushy way, regretful 
but unamazed. 

The approaches to Spa are, one and all, charactised 
by extraordinary picturesqueness especially that one 
leading from the German frontier to the cosy little valley 
in which the tiny township nestles and as you are 
dragged "by the deliberate Belgian steam-horse through 
the hilly district intervening between Verviers and 
Pepinster, the abnormally high standard of popular 
well-being therein forces itself upon your attention with 
irresistible attractiveness. The country throughout is 
thickly peopled; huge factories fill the vales, pretty 
villas and chateaux fringe the high crests : the proletary 
is well fed, ruddy, and manifestly prosperous; every- 
body seems fully occupied, lively, and bent tipon " get- 
ting along 33 with whatever he or she has to do. 
Belgium is a free land, eminently industrial, money- 



PAVIN& IN SPA. 323 

making, and thrifty. Whilst traversing it one cannot 
fail to recognise the results accruing to the general con- 
dition of a nation from the rule of a liberal, just, and 
politically unambitious government. 

Arrived at Spa, you find one enormous omnibus 
waiting to convey you to the hotel you may have hap- 
pened to fix upon as the place of your temporary abode; 
there is really no competition for you. The conductor 
of this impartial vehicle is as well disposed towards one 
hostelry as towards another, the titles of all being 
painted in letters of gold upon the hinder panels of his 
gigantic conveyance. It is all one to him whether you 
alight at the hospitable portals of the " Orange " or the 
" York ; ?? so he graciously permits you to exercise your 
Hire arlitrc to the fullest imaginable extent. You take 
your seat ; he closes the door upon you with a slam re- 
echoed by the surrounding hills, clambers to his lofty 
perch on the box, and away rattles the ponderous equip- 
age with a noise that would do honour to a battery of 
horse artillery at the trot. The stones of Spa are as 
rough as they are hard, which is really saying a good 
deal for their surface irregularities. Not only the town 
itself, which is about as large as the Green Park, but its 
whole immediate neighbourhood, is paved with these 
intolerable minerals ; and ? as it would seem that the 
main purpose of a seasonable visit to Spa is to drive 
about its streets from dewy morn till misty eve in four- 
wheeled wickcrwork chaises, the total amount of peace 
and quiet to be obtained there is about equivalent to 
that which may be enjoyed in a steam-hammer shed 
adjacent to a riveting-yard, "both in full employment, 

Y2 



324 LOCOMOTION IN SPA. 

Spa lies in a narrow green valley, apparently con- 
structed of highly-seasoned sounding-boards ingeniously 
concealed from human gaze by trees, grass, ferns, and 
other natural productions of the vegetable persuasion. 
Every one of the abominable little chaises above alluded 
to, therefore, elicits whilst in motion a reverberation 
wholly disproportionate to its visible dimensions j and, 
about every other hour, the huge railway omnibus, on 
its way to or from the station, tears through the town 
with a din compared to which the growlings of a chronic 
volcano are mere timid lovers' whispers. When the 
aforesaid chaises are not being galloped about at the top 
speed of their wiry little horses by reckless English lads 
or fast young American beauties, they are driven with 
maddening deliberation up and down the principal street 
by their respective proprietors in search of an honest 
penny, or, haply, of a nimble ninepence-halfpciiny, the 
British equivalent of a franc. In that street arc situate 
the Kursaal, all the fashionable shops, and several of the 
leading hotels. I may here parenthetically remark that 
the staples of retail trade at Spa are butterfly -brooches, 
puppy -bust xsleeve-links and breast-pins, floral fans, and 
imitation coral. I do not know but that this protracted 
torture of the lingering chaises, a la recherche d'un clien- 
tele, to the slow agony of which each particular stono 
contributes its own peculiar resonance, is not harder to 
bear than the more vehement but less enduring whizz 
and clatter of the selfsame chaises as they whirl swiftly 
and impetuously past one's window. Worst of all is the 
booming crash of the monster omnibus, drawn by dray- 
horses all behung with clamorous bells that ring an 



ENVIRONS OF SPA. 325 

Insane carillon as those clumsy quadrupeds pound along 
the sonorous streets. Whilst this demon locomotive is 
in motion one may stand close to the Kursaal orchestra, 
a body of some thirty executants, in full play, and not 
hear a single note of the piece it is engaged in per- 
forming. 

Of the Kursaal itself there is but little to say, and that 
little is by no means to its advantage. It is an abashed, 
barn-like building, comparing unfavourably with the 
majority of similar establishments familiar to Continental 
tourists of the hydropathic variety. But the environs 
of Spa are really lovely, and court exploration on foot 
or by means of the legion of pony carriages already men- 
tioned besides which, Spa can boast of saddle-horses 
galore, and good ones at the price. I remember securing 
a fiery steed who could and would jump like a profes- 
sional steeplechaser, some years ago, when I visited Spa 
in the suite of the Shah, and keeping up easily with that 
tawny potentate's famous pink-tailed Arab in a rattling 
scamper across country executed all* impromsta by Nasr- 
ed-deen during a casual afternoon excursion. Every 
sort of vehicular conveyance is lavishly provided there 
by private enterprise for the accommodation of visitors. 
You may even engage a couple of four-in-hands with 
extra-scratch teams if you bo so minded. About four 
miles from tho town are, concealed in a shady forest 
nook, the mineral springs of Sanveni&res, rising from 
Nature's laboratory to the earth's surface in the garden 
of an excellent restaurateur, whose Haut Sauterne de- 
serves tho highest commendation. The drive to Yerviers 
is also a charming ono, quite within the reasonable limits 



326 CARLSBAD. 

of a pleasant day's outing. As for the waters of Spa 
and its vicinity, they are neither more nor less nauseous 
than those of any other celebrated Bad-Ort. I have 
tasted them, but no ordinary inducement will ever tempt 
me to repeat that revolting experiment. 

The royal Free - Town of Carlsbad, every summer 
crowded to excess by a cosmopolitan gathering of real or 
imaginary valetudinarians, is situate on one of the most 
malodorous little rivers in Christendom the Tepl and, 
when approached by road from Marienbad, may be said 
to properly commence at a light suspension bridge span- 
ning that offensive stream between the Alto and E~eue 
"Wiesen, two prettily laid out promenades dedicated to 
the recreation and rest of those whom congested liver, 
gout, rheumatism and other painful human ailments have 
condemned to absorb a certain quantity of Dame Nature's 
vilest brows in the Bohemian headquarters of medicinal 
waters. Carlsbad, as a town, is not particularly pic- 
turesquea long, straggling collection of green and 
white houses, built terrace-wise on steepish hillsides 
flanking the dirty Tepl. The left-hand portion, contain- 
ing a quaint, old-fashioned market-place and town-hall, 
is backed, so to speak, by the Hammorbcrg, Hirschen- 
sprung, and Bernhardsfelsen, On the right bank of the 
river is situate the renowned hot-spring, commonly 
known by the name of Sprudel, and said to be unique 
of its kind, which rises from the old bed of the Tepl, at 
the bases of the Laurenzberg and Buehenberg. Nearly 
opposite tie massive oaken basin through which the 
Sprudel spouts, gushes, and steams incessantly, day and 
night, frowns, from the opposite side of the river, the 



THE LEGEND OF CAItLSBAD. 327 

enormous rock to which, if the pet legend of Carlsbad 
Tbe founded upon fact, the famous spring in some degree 
owes the original discovery of its healing virtues. The 
story is worth narrating ; it has the merit of being very 
old, if not very true. 

About the middle of the twelfth century, Kaiser 
Karl IY., who was passionately addicted to field sports, 
happened one day to be " a chasing of the wild deer and 
following of the roe " in the highlands adjacent to the 
valley of the Tepl. His hounds, a goodly pack, ran a 
stag of ten to such desperate straits that the hard-beset 
monarch of the glen leapt from, a projecting point of the 
mountain ridge overhanging the river, down a precipice 
into the stream itself, some four hundred feet below. 
He must either have jumped very far out or have found 
strength to drag his broken limbs some distance from 
the spot upon which he fell ; for the Imperial dogs, which 
scrambled down the hillside after him, found his body 
half boiled in a seething spring, and burnt their noses 
dreadfully in spirited but futile attempts to tackle the 
carcase. Attracted by their piteous howlings, His Apo- 
stolic Majesty hurried down to the already-cooked deer; 
and, when he saw what had happened to his game, very 
naturally flew into a terrible passion for venison boiled 
(especially in strong mineral water) is venison spoiled. 
As soon, however, as he had surmounted his first pangs 
of disappointment and anger, being a monarch who 
always had a keen eye for the main chance, he began to 
reflect that the plentiful up-springing of hot fluid from 
the earth's bowels was a phenomenon of rare occurrence, 
possibly to be turned to some good and profitable account. 



328 THE LEGEND OF CARLSBAD. 

So he ordered Ms body-surgeon, one Father Bayer, to 
investigate and report to him upon the nature and attri- 
butes of the steaming source. That reverend leech 
analysed the water according to his lights, and pro- 
nounced it to be possessed of extraordinary hygienic pro- 
perties. Kaiser Karl, happening just then to suffer 
acutely from an affection of the right hip joint, very 
pluckily (considering the prejudices and superstitions of 
the age he lived in) used the Sprudel freely at his doctor's 
recommendation, and derived such wonderful benefit from 
it that he ordered a commemorative castle to be built 
on, and a small town at the foot of, the rock from which 
the despairing stag had taken a header in the extremity 
of its fear and anguish. The rock is still called the 
"Deer's Leap;" but the castle, erected A.D. 1364, has 
long since crumbled into dust and utterly vanished. 
Carlsbad, however, remains and is prosperous. "Not 
unmindful of its antlered founder, it has set up the figure 
of a stag on a natural rock-pillar near the summit of the 
Hirschensprung, from which one may take in the whole 
of the town and Tepl valley at a single colpo cPocchio. 
Peter the Great climbed to this lofty point, and his 
visit is commemorated by a square stone block upon 
which is engraven a Latin inscription in letters of gold. 

The most curious and interesting sight in Carlsbad is 
unquestionably the Sprudel. Its water, of a palo yel- 
lowish colour, literally boils as it issues from the ground. 
"When a short distance off, you cannot distinguish the jet 
itself for the dense cloud of steam gathered around and 
above it. It will cook anything for you sur place, from an 
egg to an elephant. The height to which the jet usually 



THE SPEUDEL. 329 

rises varies "between two and four feet, l)iit you will do 
wisely not to stand too near it, for every now and anon, 
as though subject to intermittent spasms of fury, it 
bursts up, in a thick column of seething liquid, to twice 
its customary altitude, scattering boiling splashes far 
over the brink of its oaken basin. It tastes like weak 
chicken broth into which a bundle of old-fashioned 
lucifer-matches has 'been accidentally dropped and left 
to soak. Amongst other startling properties, it possesses 
that of petrifaction. Any object immersed in it for a 
short time will be completely covered by a thin hard 
coating of a greenish tinge, very pretty to look at, but 
unpleasant to think of in connection with your mucous 
membrane. Its capacities in this particular line of busi- 
ness are so powerful that if you chance to fall asleep after 
"filling up " with Sprudel and before you have digested 
it, it will turn your inside into stone with a promptitude 
worthy of a better cau.se. People whose stomachs have 
become marble are seldom good for much except inter- 
ment, after that transformation has accrued to them. 
Consequently, it behoves persons of somniferous pro- 
clivities to bo somewhat particular about keeping their 
eyes open whilst they are going through a treatment of 
Sprudel, seeing that a casual snooze may result in im- 
parting to them a statuesque character wholly imcom- 
patible with the attainment of extreme old age though 
not so, from a memorial point of view, "with immor- 
tality. To awaken from a refreshing nap and find one- 
self converted into a monument is not altogether an 
agreeable surprise. Therefore, being partial to forty 
winks after meals, I have hitherto, when at Carlsbad, 



330 THE SPRUDEL "CURE." 

deemed it expedient to abstain from Sprudel with, a 
steadfastness dictated by the holiest instincts of self- 
preservation. 

The Sprudel treatment lasts from four to six weeks, 
during which period you may not sleep to any appreci- 
able extent, may not eat or drink anything that you like, 
must get up with the worm and go to bed with the lark, 
are constrained upon pain of petrifaction to walk about 
profusely when you would give the world to sit still ; 
and for all this mortification of the flesh and vexation of 
the spirit, find yourself called upon to expend a sum 
per diem for which, in Paris or Vienna, you could posi- 
tively wallow in the good things of. this life and steep 
yourself to the bone in mundane pleasures. I forgot 
to mention that Carlsbad is deadly dull, even to a robust 
and cheerful human being. That is so, however. Upon 
invalids it exercises a truly crushing influence. I have 
seen men of notorious valoiir, arrived at about the 
middle period of a Sprudel "Cure," cry like whipped 
children over the unutteralble dismalness of their lot. 
Eemember, such a man must rise at four o'clock of the 
morning; must not play cards, dance, or indulge in any 
amusement of an exciting description ; must not go to 
sleep "during the day, after his one poor, skimping, 
mawkish meal, lest he never wake again ! Picture to 
yourself this luckless wretch, robbed nightly of his 
repose, drenched with thick warm water, half starved, 
bored to death, and forbidden to nod over his post- 
prandial cigar under penalty of transmogrification into 
a mere "monumental mockery" of himself ! Health is 
a paramount blessing ; but I am not so certain that it is 



THE CUP THAT NOT INEBRIATES. 331 

not dearly purchased at the price of such ingenious tor- 
ture as this, to "be endured every day and all day for at 
least a month. 

At from five to six A.M. on a sunny summer's morn, 
the "covered way" leading to the Sprudel spring pre- 
sents a highly animated spectacle. It is thronged with 
" Early Christians," hurrying backwards and forwards 
between their nauseous draughts, every one provided 
with his or her "beaker of Bohemian glass. Most of 
the gentlemen wear their tumblers attached to a button- 
hole, after the manner of a decoration. It is easy to 
tell at a glance, who has drunk, and who has not. On 
the countenances of persons comprised within the latter 
category is impressed the settled melancholy of mourn- 
ful anticipation, whilst the faces of those who have 
undergone the dread ordeal are distorted with the 
writhings of miserable retrospection. It is, to my mind, 
scarcely possible to conceive a more abnormal situation 
for a person of independent means and civilised habits 
to find himself placed in than that of drinking boiling 
water at cock-crow, in the presence of a numerous 
assembly and to the accompaniment of a stringed band 
playing the Brindisi from Lucre&ia Borgia a subtle 
but irritating musical illustration of the "unfitness of 
things." True, Orsini's cup was poisoned; but that 
can scarcely be held a pleasant circumstance of which 
to be reminded while swallowing Sprudel. At any rate, 
if I know anything about happiness, il sec/reto per csser 
felice is not to be routed out of bed before dawn and 
turned into the open street, breakfastloss, to drink eight 
or nine half-pints of scalding liquid. 



332 SCHLOSS HELLBRTON. 

Of all the show places in and about Salzburg, Hell- 
brunn is, if not the most picturesque, splendid, or im- 
posing, decidedly the funniest. And yet this old 
archiepiscopal Lustschloss, built by one of Salzburg's 
priest-princes ever so long ago, is marvellously situated, 
and the approach to it from the town is made through a 
dream-country of mountains, woods, castles, monas- 
teries, avenues of lofty trees, pretty straggling villages, 
and richly cultivated fields, across limpid rivulets, skirt- 
ing tiny lakes, and passing under the very eaves of 
solid, comfortable-looking farmhouses, flanked by huge 
elms. To reach the gate of the Schloss, built in the 
shadow, as it were, of the rugged Untersberg, you turn 
sharp to the left out of the main road, close by the 
ancient fish nurseries of which the Salzburgors are so 
proud ; and well they may be, for those breeding-ponds 
are ample in size, twenty-seven in number, and in every 
pond is brought up to years of discretion a different 
sort of fish. On the opposite side of the broad valley 
towers the mighty Gaisberg, his broad base stretching 
almost to the foot of the conical Stauffon ; some three 
miles off the fortress of Salzburg, built of a stone so 
like the rock on which it is perched that it scorns to 
have grown out of the mountain top, rears its grey 
turrets arid long embrasured walls grimly enough sky- 
wards. The whole picture is essentially mot/en age, 
feudal, "Walter Scottish, Unfortunately, it is not peopled 
with the dashing baron's jovial retainers and pastoral 
belles of romance, but by a very ugly, clumsy, and surly 
race of peasantry, not in the least tastefully attired : 
their leading characteristics are four-comorod faces and 



SCHLOSS HELLBRUNN. 333 

circular backs. They neither strew flowers in your path, 
tender you beakers of beady Bhenish, nor even greet 
you with a courteous salutation : far from it. They are 
prosaic blemishes on the face of a poetical district ; and 
so I will say no more about them, but return to Hell- 
brunn and its comic waterworks, which well deserve 
description. 

The castle itself is a sixteenth-century building of no 
particular architectural significance, fronted by a good- 
sized quadrangle, one side of which has been converted 
into an inn, with stabling and all complete, kept by the 
genius loci or Brunnewneister (well-master). Passing 
through this hospitable anomaly; a short corridor leads 
to the castle garden, of which the first outwork is filled 
with the inevitable round wooden tables indigenous to 
Austrian soil, each surrounded by its full complement of 
four deal chairs. Heavily-built females with light hair 
circulate, bearing trophies of kruyel and seidel, butter- 
Irod) and other dainties. Do you think your native 
Austrian would venture out three miles from a town to 
inspect the beauties of nature and art unless he were 
assured of being able to steep himself in beer upon the 
very spot to be explored ? Not he ; and it is astonishing 
to remark how soon foreigners fall into his way ! One 
can hardly fancy a tap of beer in Hampton Court Palace 
garden, or tea a ad shrimps on the terrace of Windsor 
Castle ; here such refreshing institutions are part of the 
attraction to palaces and castles. The Austrian, and his 
half-brother the Bavarian, cannot get on without gemiith- 
UcJiJceit) for which beer is a synonym. I take some credit 
to myself for having furnished humanity with a plausible 



" 



334 THE " WATER PLAYS, 

translation of this "word, which has hitherto defied 
universities, and driven individual professors to deep 
despair. 

As soon as you are fairly within his malty jurisdic- 
tion, the Bnmnenmeister is down upon you with impe- 
rious precipitation. a You want to sec the water-plays?" 
Of course you do. What else did you come to Hellbrunn 
for ? Not to drink inferior beer in a garden, I suppose. 
Some of his satellites are dispatched for keys, whilst 
others hover round you, waving full mugs in the air. 
Presently the keys are brought, and the Birunnenmeistcr, 
ordering you in a dignified tone to leave all meaner 
things and follow him, leads the way across a wooden 
bridge into a garden behind the castle, laid out in the 
prim, formal, old German style. Bearing to the left you 
are conducted down a broad walk, terminating in a huge 
stone basin containing Tritons, who exhale water at one 
another. Turning now sharp to the right you enter a 
long side path, and along the two sides of this are col- 
lected the mechanical marvels of hydrostatic eccentricity 
with which the ingenious archbishop was wont to delight 
and surprise the noble guests who were invited (after a 
sumptuous repast) to stroll with him about his grounds. 
The first fountain you come to is a very elaborate work 
indeed ; Neptune, in a niche, pours water out of an urn 
this water collects ia a small reservoir, which it over- 
flows, and is led by two open conduits to the edge of a 
shelf, that I can only compare to a big marble mantel- 
piece ; where the fire ought to be is another reservoir, 
and on either side of this a panel picture of course in 
water-colours over which the water, spreading in the 



THE " WATER PLAYS." 335 

form of a fan, flows ; and so perfectly pellucid is the 
liquid, that at first it is invisible. You see the two pic- 
tures apparently exposed to the air, and do not notice, 
till your attention is called to the fact by the autocrat of 
the place, that they are really shrouded by a watery veil, 
thin and transparent as the most delicate sheet of crystal. 
A little farther on you come to a grotto of the most 
approved pattern, in the centre of which stands a water 
nymph, with a golden crown lying at her feet. Con- 
cealed in a small corridor, you peep into the kelpie's 
retreat ; suddenly a thin spout of water slowly lifts the 
crown from the -ground, and raises it some ten feet or so. 
At the same moment slender water-threads spring from 
the ground, the walls, and the ceiling, converging from 
all directions to the statue. The path leading to the 
grotto is also arched with jets, to the ignominious wet- 
ting of loiterers outside ; and I can picture to myself the 
fat laugh with which the jovial prelates must have hailed 
the discomfiture of the victims to this guet-a-pens. After 
your experiences of the grotto, you are prepared for 
water anywhere and everywhere : the Brunnenmeisier is 
a man to be conciliated, for he may turn on floods over 
you at any moment. Presently you come to a sort of 
miniature theatre, representing the Haupt-platz, or prin- 
cipal square of a small German Residenz-stadt. The 
centre is occupied by the palace, say of the Kurfiirst von 
Pumpenbach-Sapperment, and before its open gate two 
white-coated, blue-breeched sentinels pace their beat, 
wheeling round with military precision at the same mo- 
ment, evidently in a high state of discipline. The square 
itself is full of life, as are the houses surrounding it : a 



336 "THE WATER PLAYS/' 

cooper is making barrels, a butcher slaughtering an ox 
with a pole-axe, a carpenter planing away for the dear 
life ; blacksmiths, turners, wheelwrights, cobblers plying 
their crafts ; a dozen bricklayers are building a house, a 
pastrycook is running frantically about with trays of 
tarts; a bale of goods is being hauled up to a third 
storey with a crane out of a cart ; and in the midst of all 
this hubbub a pifferaro is compelling a grave brown bear 
with a terrific red tongue to dance. Out of the palace 
windows lean high-and- well-born lords and ladies, smok- 
ing long pipes and flirting fans ; in the attic window 
ponderous love is being made by a jiigw to a spruce 
maid-servant ; old gossips stretch their necks out of nar- 
row casements and gesticulate the morning scandal ; and 
an organ, "whose sound reveals the fact that it has caught 
a desperate cold from its motor, performs an unintelli- 
gible tune, with neither beginning, middle, nor end, all 
the while. The whole of this little world, two-hundred- 
puppet strong, is set in motion and kept alive by the 
action of water. No wonder the organ is husky and 
weak. 

Let us go a little farther on. Here is Andromeda, 
chained to her rock and as bare as a robin, the traditional 
sea-monster swimming round her at no end of a rate, 
gourmandise radiant in every lineament of his expres- 
sive countenance. You may swim and glare, my active 
but ill-favoured friend ; not for you is that comely tit- 
bit. It seems you have reckoned without Perseus, who 
is, however, hard by, and will pretty soon spoil your ap- 
petite. I thought so ! Just as the marine anthropo- 
phagist settles himself for a bite, Porseus, his shining 



THE "WATER PLAYS. ?? 337 

falcliion and terrible shield displayed, pops out of a hole 
and deals him a smart chop on the head. Disturbed in 
his dinner arrangements by this untimely interference, 
the Kraaken goes in for another swim round, shaking 
his head in evident disgust ; but so sure as he comes 
back to the point he has made up his fishy mind to for 
an onslaught on the appetising morsel awaiting his maw, 
as surely does he get u one for himself" from the watch- 
ful Perseus, who never fails to check his greediness at 
the right moment ; and so on for ever. Not to laugh at 
this thrilling scene would be, I think, impossible. The 
monster, especially, is the funniest fellow imaginable, 
and the discontented way he wags his head, looks round, 
and then starts off again full pelt round the rock after 
receiving a hearty crack from the dodgy deliverer, is 
inimitably humorous. 

Next we come to a potter in the exercise of his profes- 
sion; then to a labourer's wife turning the grindstone 
whilst her husband sharpens his scythe ; then to another 
fountain-fan, this time flowing over nosegays of fresh 
flowers into a shallow basin, in front of which are two 
tortoises that have evidently joined issue upon some 
important question, for they are spitting at each other 
with devilish malignity j and lastly, to a set of manu- 
factured stalactite caves and Eoman ruins, full of stuffed 
birds that whistle and chirp, sirens and sea serpents that 
swim, and surprises for the unwary, resulting in a liberal 
aspersion of those who are not endowed with more eyes 
than stare from a peacock's tail. It is an exquisite bit 
of humour, for Germany, to wet somebody through 
unexpectedly ; and the Brunnenmeister at Hollbrunn is, 

VOL. II, Z 



338 EXTREMES. 

in this respect, a supremely witty fellow. In England 
lie wonld probably get kicked for his fanny ways ; here 
he insures an extra gratuity by asperging his clients. 
There are many more ingenious devices and fanciful 
tricks executed by water-power at Hellbrann than I 
have space to describe ; and I cordially counsel any of 
my countrymen who may visit the district not to leave 
Salzburg without visiting the archiepiscopal Lustschloss, 
In this "best of all possible worlds" (teste Pangloss) 
may be found a considerable number of eccentric and 
highly enterprising persons who deem that it is their 
peculiar province in life to deal with the extremes of 
things. They are not tamely to be contented with mere 
average good and bad, big and little, strong and weak ; 
what they yearn for, and display remarkable ardour and 
perseverance in attaining, must be of the best and worst, 
the largest and smallest, the strongest and weakest. The 
very gist and flower of such men's existences I say 
men advisedly, believing the members of the more 
redoubtable sex to be, as a whole, averse to extremes, 
the exception to that rule obtaining in the matter of 
their personal likes and dislikes are to have known 
the tallest giant and most diminutive dwarf, to have 
descended into the deepest coal-pit or climbed to the 
topmost peak of Bhavalaghiri, to have drunk more grog 
than Mynheer van Dunck and eaten more oysters than 
Dando, to have witnessed the most tremendous con- 
flagration and to have shared the horrors of the most 
harrowing shipwreck that have appalled humanity within 
the memory of their contemporaries. The temper of 
mind with which persons of this sort are naturally gifted 



THE DULLEST OF CAPITALS. 339 

Is one that tends disagreeably to limit the number of 
keen and perfect gratifications they are susceptible of 
experiencing ; for the very " biggest things " (to borrow 
an Americanism), whether objects or events, are neces- 
sarily few and difficult of access. But I am emboldened 
to believe that I am in a position to augment the oppor- 
tunities of satisfying that craving for the unsurpassable 
which possesses the persons in question by at least one 
solid, indisputable unit. Darmstadt is the dullest capital 
probably the dullest city in Europe. I should be 
loth to do it an injustice ; but haying gone through 
several exceptionally harassing courses of dull towns 
during two decades of wanderings, I have acquired a 
dismally accurate appreciation of the different degrees 
of urban dullness, and must conscientiously award 
the palm (the sprig of yew would be more appropri- 
ate) to Darmstadt's achievement in that respect, which 
has lodged the Hessian Hauptstadt, so to speak, at 
the yery bottom of that deeper depth which an ima- 
ginative but somewhat befogged bard has referred to as 
situate beneath the deepest depth of all. I had thought, 
until now that Slargard in Pomerania, Gray in the 
Franchc-Comtc, Pignerol in Piedmont, and a few other 
provincial towns with which destiny has made me 
acquaint, wore, on the whole, dullish j but I am come 
to the conviction, after all those dire experiences of 
tiresome towns, that, compared with Darmstadt, they 
are giddily gay nay, desperately dissipated. The 
expression u played out " is applicable to Darmstadt 
with exquisite felieitousness. You may walk - at high 
noon from, one end to the .other of the long, broad 5 



340 DARMSTADT. 

melancholy street of which it chiefly consists, having 
laid yourself lopg odds that you will not meet seven 
people of both sexes and all ages ? and win "by an old 
woman and a boy. In making this bet it is not necessaiy 
to hedge a single living soul. You are sure to win. 
Short of a revolution the event of all others least 
likely to come off in Darmstadt I can conceive no 
emergency that would bring more than five people 
together in the chief street of this city j and the un- 
wonted spectacle of a public aggregation, even to that 
number, would doubtless denote that popular excitement 
was raging to an extent calling for prompt action on the 
part of the military authorities. The guide-books assert 
that there are some thirty odd thousand Darmstadters. 
I should have set the population down at about three 
dozen, and a half from what I saw of it. Those amongst 
them with whom I conversed, to their manifest disin- 
clination, exhibited a want of vital interest in anything 
and everything, including their own institutions, that was 
little short of phenomenal. The landlord of my hotel, 
which stands close to the palace, " did not know " when 
interrogated as to whether the Grand Ducal family was 
in town or in the country. Upon inquiring of the Under- 
Deputy- Vice-Castellan of the Schloss itself where the 
Duke of Edinburgh had been lodged recently, that 
illustrious functionary was terribly gravelled and per- 
plexed ; nor did an explanatory reference to his Royal 
Highness as " the English Prince " in the least relieve 
him from his embarrassment. It was too evident that 
he knew not of the august sailor's existence. He was 
dimly conscious of the facts that the Czar and Czarina 



A DEPRESSING MONUMENT. 341 

had been visiting the " Hohe Herrschaft," and that the 
Czar "had gone somewhere to a review/ 5 but of Prince 
Alfred he was nervously unconscious. It took me the 
best part of the afternoon to find out the address of 
the British charge d'affaires ; and he did not live there 
after all ! There is a gloomy carelessness about the 
Darmstadter that partly results from the annihilating 
dullness of their town, and is in no small degree, I 
should fancy, ascribable to the monument on the 
Sohlossplatz. This peculiarly depressing public work is 
very long and very red a dull red, though, in strict 
keeping with the mental tone of the population. On 
one side of its square base is engraved in enormous 
letters the word " Ludwig." Upon the casual con- 
templator the effect produced by that baptismal name, 
forlorn of all explanatory comment or device, and 
evidently intended to carry conviction to the most 
sceptical mind, is the reverse of exhilarating. What 
must it be upon the perennial inhabitant ! "Who was, 
or is, Ludwig, and why has he been thus branded, date- 
less and unglossaried, upon a column with the hideous- 
ness of which even London monuments cannot vie? 
Surely an ungenerous advantage to take of any Ludwig, 
living or dead ! Is this dismal reel pillar, perhaps, to be 
taken as the concrete expression of the Darmstadter 7 s 
intellectual conception of an abstract Ludwig ? There 
is a lack of inventive force about it that leads me to 
think so. This particular deficiency is betrayed, though, 
in quite another direction, by the course adopted by the 
Darmstadtors in dealing with the question of naming 
their streets, When I visited their city, they were 



342 LIFE IN DARMSTADT. . 

slowly and sadly completing a new street, as malodorous, 
"by the way, as though it were of the most undoubted 
antiquity. It seems that they had already possessed, 
for many years, a "William Street. Other names, one 
would imagine, were open to them ; hut they were not 
able to soar above William. However, to avoid the con- 
fusion to which a synonym pure and utter might have 
led, they, in the exercise of a sombre prudence, named 
the new thoroughfare " Improved William Street." 
Volumes could not reveal more respecting the hopeless 
immobility of the Darmstadt nature than this simple 
record. 

The chief mystery of this amazingly lugubrious town 
to one who knows how Germans of all ranks delight in 
listening to music, even if badly performed, as they sit 
in the open air during the crepuscular hours, drinking 
beer and smoking what they are pleased to call tobacco, 
is that there are absolutely no places of public resort in 
Darmstadt where that mildest of recreations may be 
indulged in. During my second evening there my 
last, despite the dictum of the proverb declaring that 
" Alle guten Dingor sind drei " my inquiries for the 
customary " Biergaiien mit Concert " were uniformly 
fruitless. "Evening relaxations! those have we not, 
gracious sir; one amuses oneself not in Darmstadt, 
neither of day, nor of evening. Wo are a quiet, with- 
few-pleasitres-and-littlo-excitement-contented people." 
Such was the reply given by a member of the Hessian 
Parliament to the faltering demand for some sort of 
after-dark pastime preferred to him by an Englishman 
fresh from the brilliant gaieties of a London season, who 



A NOVEL CALCULATION. 343 

felt as if, by the workings of some dread cataclysm, lie 
had suddenly Tbeen projected into another planet. The 
very quietest place, I assure you. All ye who long for 
absolute peace mutato nomine^ unmitigated boredom 
go to Darmstadt ! 

I cannot resist the temptation of closing this sketch 
by a strictly authentic anecdote, having relation to an 
official personage upon whom I had occasion to call. I 
should mention that I found this gentleman a foreign 
diplomatist, well-known in Paris and the East, and once 
of a remarkably cheerful disposition pacing his rooms 
in a demented manner, and counting from one to a hun- 
dred in a low and hollow voice. " Do not be alarmed, 
my friend," he exclaimed, noticing the air of surprise 
with which I contemplated him ; u I am only confirm- 
ing myself in my system. Having nothing to do, either 
in the way of business or amusement, in Darmstadt, I 
have been driven to theorise. Observation, protracted over 
many hours daily, from my window, has convinced me 
that every object, animate or inanimate, passing my house, 
maybe prophetically determined by a particular number to 
be recited aloud, always commencing at and counting 
forward from one. I have classified these things. Thus, 
dog in my system is represented by the number nine ; 
old woman with basket by forty-seven ; boy with his 
hat in his hand by the number twenty -nine, and so on 
ad infinitwn. Intelligent English traveller, you will 
observe," pointing out an entry in a huge manuscript 
volume, " stand at the high figure of 94,608, but I sel- 
dom have tho patience to count up to him. This is my 
only occupation, You will scarcely believe me when I 



344 A NOVEL CALCULATION. 

tell you that I sometimes find it a trifle wearisome. 
But one must do something. Come to the window and 
hear me exorcise the dog, and the old woman with the 
basket, at least. They are easy ones and short." And, 
leading me to the casement, he commenced in sepul- 
chral accents, "One, two, three, four," &c. To such a 
pass had a few months' residence in Darmstadt brought 
a noble intellect and cheery spirit. 

I left my unfortunate friend to u dree his weird" 
(whatever that may mean), despite his urgent request 
that I would stay and hear him numerically produce 
Hessian soldier (thirty-six) and public conveyance (one 
hundred and twenty -two). Poor Hubert Jerningham ! 
his state was not a gracious one. Luckily for him, the 
Foreign Office soon after my brief sojourn in Darm- 
stadt translated the wasted remnant of a good fellow 
and/oj/aw? compagnon, that had been miserably counting 
itself into a premature lunatic asylum under the awful 
presence of Darmstadt dulness, to other climes. 



CHAPTEE XII. 

STATES OF SIEGE. 

AMONGST "the most startling and least agreeable expe- 
riences of an Englishman abroad are those which accrue 
to him in the course of his sojourn in cities which happen 
to be in a state of siege ; a condition of urban affairs 
which has been of late years by no means infrequent in 
Continental capitals. The words " state of siege " have 
a somewhat formidable sound ; and, indeed, they indi- 
cate an abnormal condition of affairs in the city to which 
they happen to be applied that is scarcely consistent with 
absolute safety to the lives and property of its inhabi- 
tants. Circumstances have thrown me in the way of 
" states of siege/ 7 either inside or outside the cities 
temporarily submitted to them, with somewhat more 
frequency than falls to the lot of average roving hu- 
manity ; and having in no less than three of these 
quaint experiences narrowly escaped losing my life 
without having committed any action in the least calcu- 
^ated to draw down upon my luckless head the displea- 
sure of the legitimate authorities for the time being, I 
am prepared to assert in the most positive manner that a 
" state of siege ?? is one of the most unpleasant " states " 
imaginable in which a person of irreproachable conduct 



346 STATES OP SIEGE. 

but an inquiring disposition may find himself called upon 
to abide. 

It was during such a "state," at Bucharest, the 
" City of Pleasure/' during the reign of John Alex- 
ander Cusa, that, whilst walking quietly down the 
Strada Herestreu, I underwent the startling sensation 
of being shot at, at something less than point blank 
range, by two Wallaclrian soldiers, who were, fortu- 
nately for me, too drunk to take aim or hold their rifles 
steady. In "Vienna (July, 1866) I was arrested whilst 
visiting the tete du pent at Floridsdorf with the Arch- 
duke Albrechtfs express permisson, and all but shot 
" on sight," because the warriors into whose hands I 
fell decided, in their great wisdom, that the papers 
of legitimation with which I was provided were signed 
by far too high a military authority not to be for- 
geries; so that the very excellence and unimpeach- 
ability of my right to be where I was at the time 
of my arrest nearly proved fatal to me ! During the 
state of siege in Eome (1867), being seated at the 
window of my hotel in the Corso with two friends, a 
Piedmontese and a German, smoking the after-dinner 
cigarette in a tranquil and even cheerful spirit, I was 
favoured by some Papal Carabineers with a discharge of 
bullets from the opposite side of the street, which smashed 
three of the panes and made great havoc amongst the 
lustres of a handsome chandelier that adorned my sitting- 
room. My friends and myself fortunately escaped with 
no graver injuries than a few scratches from the broken 
glass, for the defenders of the Holy See had fired high ; 
but about fifty pounds' worth of damage was clone to the 



STATES OF SIEGE. 347 

landlord's crystal and to Ms beautiful painted ceiling, in 
which the erring bullets terminated their wild career. 
A year later I was summoned to Madrid, and found that 
breezy capital en plein etat de siege, which lasted for 
about three weeks after my arrival there, but caused me 
no personal inconvenience to speak of after I had accus- 
tomed myself to the humorous promiscuousness with 
which the Volontarios de la Libertad were wont to let 
off their muskets in the street in the pursuit of their 
patriotic avocations. 

The next capital in which I had the good fortune 
to reside during the prevalence of a state of siege 
was Belgrade. It is not a nice place to live in at any 
time for from it ; but I have never known it so nasty 
as it was throughout the autumn of 1876. The hotels 
and restaurants (the latter word is by no means applic- 
able in its strict sense to the dingy dens in which 
substances uneatable and liquids undrinkable were 
grudgingly served out at exorbitant prices) were crowded 
with rowdy Russians chronically drunk and riotous ; 
its streets were plunged in total darkness after nine P.M., 
and patrolled by half-savage u civic guards" (the army 
being away on the Turkish frontier) who surrounded 
the harmless pedestrian, returning to his inn from a 
consular party or a visit to the English hakims at the 
Catherine Hospital, with fixed bayonets, levelled at his 
vitals first, and challenged him afterwards. An evening 
stroll along the Terazia, or from the Kalemeydan down 
to the riverside, proved almost invariably rife with 
emotional incident; no respectable man's life was safe 
from the Kussian volunteers and the Servian patriots. 



348 STATES OF SIEGE. 

Of the two I preferred the latter, with -whom I had 
many encounters, and whose fierceness always struck me 
as being rather assumed than real put on, in fact, as a 
disguise to their natural timidity. Besides, they were 
always sober, and therefore capable of understanding 
what was said to them, which the Russians scarcely ever 
were. 

And in the autumn of 1878 I was again, for the sixth 
time, the denizen of a city in a " state of siege." The 
executive authorities, to whom such elastic powers 
were given by the Repressive Bill, published a set of 
ordinances which placed Berlin in Belagerwigsssustand, 
and gave the inhabitants of the German capital a 
sample of the vigour with which they proposed to 
enforce the measures in question, by sending thence 
some forty Social Democratic notabilities, including 
two members of the Imperial Parliament, who were 
conveyed away from their residences a few hours 
after the publication of the ordinances in the Reich- 
san&eiger) escorted by police-officers, to the several 
railway stations chosen by them as the starting-points of 
their exodus, and dispatched, under surveillance, to 
destinations outside the rayon described in the official 
decree. A state of siege may be defined as being of two 
distinct sorts or classes, to which, again, infinite nuances 
of application or enforcement are appurtenant. The two 
sorts are the so-called " great ?? and "little" states of 
siege. The former comprehends the suspension of the 
constitutional and civic laws, the transfer of all adminis- 
trative power from the civil to the military authorities, 
the suppression of the press, and the prohibition of 



STATES OF SIEGE. 349 

assemblages in the streets of more than three persons 
together. This is the variety of this institution which I 
had the pleasure of seeing carried out to perfection in 
Eome during the autumn of 1867. Shutters %&& jalousies 
of all the houses had to be closed at six P.M., after which 
hour no private individual was permitted to take his 
walks abroad without a special pass from the command- 
ant of the city, and did most wisely, even if he were 
provided with such a document, to stop at home ; for 
the main streets were held at intervals of five to six 
hundred yards by pickets of soldiery, whose orders must 
have been something very like " First fire, then in- 
quire ; " for I saw them on more than one occasion shoot 
down pedestrians who happened to drift into the Corso 
from the side streets without giving them a minute's law 
wherein to justify their appearance sub coelo. Eor days 
and days the streets of the Eternal City were empty of 
aught but Papal linesmen, Zouaves, and Carabinieri ; 
the inhabitants were so thoroughly cowed that they did 
not venture out even during the permitted hours, from 
six A.M. to six P.M. ; and the overwhelming stillness of 
the nights was only broken by sounds of an exclusively 
military character. The civil population appeared to 
have vanished altogether. It was a gruesome and wear- 
ing time a state of siege with a vengeance ! If a house 
was suspected of containing any Garibaldian sympathiser 
or disaffected person, the soldiers fired at it from the 
opposite side of the way until it was pitted all over with 
bullet-holes, then broke down the door, and shot or 
bayoneted every living thing in the building from cellar 
to attic. I remember that in one house of the Traste- 



350 STATES OF SIEGE. 

yere they slaughtered a pregnant woman, a little boy 
four years old, and a splendid Persian cat, as well as all 
the men who were found in different parts of the tene- 
ment, which was a sort of Casa d'Alloggio for artisans. 

The other sort, or u little state of siege," is what we 
underwent at Berlin, in one of its mildest phases. It 
can scarcely be said to have affected the population in 
general at all, nor did it induce the least change in the 
aspect of the city by day and by night. It consisted 
mainly in a prohibition from carrying arms, and in the 
faculty of the authorities to expel from the town and its 
neighbourhood such persons as they might deem likely 
to create a disturbance, or to commit seditious actions. 
Eespectable and well-behaved people had nothing to fear 
from the enforcement of such measures as these ; and, 
but for the lack of confidence ia the loyalty of the 
inhabitants implied by the issuing of the proclamation 
just a few days before the date appointed for the 
Emperor's return to his capital, I feel convinced that the 
majority of the Berliners would have approved of the new 
ordinances in the most unqualified manner. People 
there regarded every gun and pistol that was seized by 
the police who knew well enough in what quarters to 
look for them as one possibility the less of another 
attack upon their Emperor's life ; and the oxmission of 
Socialistic demagogues, far from being deprecated as an 
extreme measure, was welcomed with a strong and lively 
sense of relief by the upper and middle-classes, who had 
for weeks felt as if they were sitting on gunpowder 
barrels with the heads off, and were unfeignedly grateful 
to the Government for getting rid of people whom they 



STATES OP SIEGE. 351 

looked upon as political lucifer matches. As a matter of 
fact, tlie " Kleiner Belagerungszustand/ ? established in 
Berlin towards the end of the year 1878, and there kept 
in force until the present day, has worked well and 
proved a blessing, instead of a curse, to the respectable 
and order-loving citizens of the Grerman capital. Under 
its salutary provisions the chief elements of danger to the 
commonweal have been carefully and exhaustively elim- 
inated ; and the life of the venerable German Emperor, 
twice menaced by murderous disciples of the Social- 
Democratic dogma, has been happily prolonged to a 
patriarchal age. Of what value that honoured life has 
been, and is, to the peace of Europe, statesmen of every 
civilised country well know. Its preservation throughout 
the past eight years is in great measure due, 1 do not 
hesitate to say, to a " State of Siege. 77 



THE END, 



PBJNTKD BY J, 8, YIBTUB ATO 00,, MMITBD, OITY^OAD, JDOKDON, 8.0. 



ir, HENRIETTA STREET, COGENT GARDEN, W.C, 

MAY, 1888. 



Catalogue of 



PUBLISHED BY 



CHAPMAN & HALL, 



LIMITED. 



FOR 

Drawing Examples, Diagrams, Models, Instruments, etc., 

ISSUBD UNDER THS AUTHORITY OF 

THE SCIENCE AND ART DEPARTMENT, 
SOUTH KENSINGTON, 

FOR THE USE OF SCHOOLS AND ART AND SCIENCE CLASSES, 
See separate Illustrated Catalogue, 



NEW PUBLICATIONS. 



By T. WEMVSS REID. 

THE LIFE OF THE RT. HON. W. E. FORSTER. 

By T. WEJVIYSS REID. 2 vols. Demy Svo. With Portraits. 

By the AUTHOR of " MONARCHS I HAVE MET." 

A WANDERER'S NOTES. By W. BEATTY-KINGSTON, 

Author of " Music and Manners." 2 volss Demy Svo, 24S. 
By PERCY FITZGERALD. 

THE CHRONICLES OF BOW STREET. By 

PERCY FITZGERALD. With numerous Illustrations. 2 vols. Derny Svo. 
By M. DE FALLOUX. 

MEMOIRS OF A ROYALIST. By M. DE FALLOUX. 

Translated from the French by C. B. PITMAN. 2 vols. Demy Svo. 
Bv ERNEST REX AN. 

HISTORY OF THE PEOPLE OF ISRAEL TILL 

THE TIME OF KING DAVID. By ERNEST RKNAN. Translated from the French 
by C. B. PITMAN, Decay Svo, 148. 

By the AUTHOR of "THE BROKEN VOW." 

THE CHILD OF STAFFERTON. By CANON KNOX 

LITTLE, Author of "The Broken Vow." Crown Svo. 

By the AUTHOR of "GREATER BRITAIN" 

THE BRITISH ARMY. By the Author of "The Present 

Position of European Politics," Demy Svo. 

Bv FREDERICK HA WKINS. 

THE FRENCH STAGE IN THE EIGHTEENTH 

CENTURY, By FREDERICK HAWKINS. With Portraits. 2 vols. Demy Svo, sos. 

DOWN WITH ENGLAND. Translated from the 

French. Crown Bvo, is. 

By ANDREW A. ANDERSON. 

TWENTY-FIVE YEARS IN A WAGGON: Sport 

and Travel in South Africa. By ANDREW A. ANDERSON. With Illustrations and Map, 
A New Edition in one volume. Demy Svo, xas. 

By the AUTHOR of "CONSTRUCTIVE ETHICS" 

STUDIES NEW AND OLD. By W. L. COURTNEY, M. A,, 

LL.D. Crown Svo. 

A NEW NOVEL tv JOHN DALBY. 

MAYROYD OF MYTHOLM : A Romance of the 

Fells. By JOHN DALBY. svoh. Crown Svo. 

A NEW NOVEL fy LADY WATK1N WILLIAMS. 

EVEN SUCH IS LIFE. By LADY WATKIN WILLIAMS, 

3 vols. Crown Svo. 



BOOKS 

PUBLISHED BY 

CHAPMAN & HALL, LIMITED. 



ABLETT (T. J?.) 

WRITTEN DESIGN. * Oblong, sewed, 6d. 
ABOUT (EDMOND} 

HANDBOOK OF SOCIAL ECONOMY; OR, THE 

WORKER'S ABC. From the French. With a Biographical and Critical 
Introduction by W. FRASER RAE. Second Edition, revised. Crown Svo, 45. 

AFRICAN FARM, STORY OF AN. By OLIVE SCHREINER 

(Ralph. Iron), New Edition. Crown Svo, 25. 
ANDERSON (ANDREW A.) 

TWENTY-FIVE YEARS IN A WAGGON IN THE 

GOLD REGIONS OF AFRICA. With Illustrations and Map. Second Edition. 
Demy Svo, xas. 

AGRICULTURAL SCIENCE (LECTURES ON), AND 

OTHER PROCEEDINGS OF THE INSTITUTE OF AGRICULTURE, 
SOUTH KENSINGTON, 1883-4. Crown 8ro, sewed, as. 

AVELING (EDWARD], D.Sc., Fellow of University College London 

MECHANICS AND^ EXPERIMENTAL SCIENCE 

As required for the Matriculation Examination of the University of London. 
MECHANICS, With numerous Woodcuts. Crown Svo, 6s. 
CHEMISTRY. With numerous Woodcuts. Crown Svo, 6*. 
MAGNETISM AND ELECTRICITY. Crown Svo, 6s. 
LIGHT AND HEAT, down Svo, 6s. 

BADEN-POWELL (GEORGE) 

STATE AID AND STATE INTERFERENCE. Illus- 

trated by Results In Commerce and Industry. Crown Svo, 93. 

BARKER (0. F. RUSSELL] and DAUGL/Sff (M. G.), of Lincoln's !nn t 
Ba rristcrs -ai-Lavo 

HISTORICAL AND POLITICAL HANDBOOK. Crown 

8vo 
BAJKTLEY (G. C, T.} 

A HANDY BOOK FOR GUARDIANS OF THE POOR. 

Crown 8vo, cloth, 33. 

A 2 



BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



BAYARD: HISTORY OF THE GOOD CHEVALIER, 

SANS PEUR ET SANS REPROCHE. Compiled by the LOYAL SERVITEUR. 
With over zoo Illustrations. Royal 8vo, sis. 

BEATTY-KINGSTON (W.) 

A WANDERER'S NOTES, 2 vols. demy Svo, 243. 

MONARCHS I HAVE MET. 2 vols. demy 8vo, 243. 
MUSIC AND MANNERS : Personal Reminiscences and 

Si-etches of Character. 2 vols. demy 8vo, 305. 
BELL (JAMES, Ph.D., &c.), Principal of the Somerset House Laboratory 

THE CHEMISTRY OF FOODS. With Microscopic 

Illustrations. 

PART I. TEA, COFFEE, COCOA, SUGAR, ETC. Large crown 8vo, ss. 6d. 
PART II. MILK, BUTTER, CHKESE, CEREALS, PREPARED 
STARCHES, ETC. Large crown 8vo, 35. 

BENSON (W.) 

UNIVERSAL PHONOGRAPHY. To classify sounds of 

Human Speech, and to denote them by one set of Symbols for easy Writing and 
Printing. 8vo, sewed, is. 

MANUAL OF THE SCIENCE OF COLOUR. Coloured 

Frontispiece and Illustrations. i2mo, cloth, as. 6d. 

PRINCIPLES OF THE SCIENCE OF COLOUR. Small 

4to, cloth, 155. 
BJNGHAM (CAPT. THE HON. .) 

A SELECTION FROM THE LETTERS AND 

DESPATCHES OF THE FIRST NAPOLEON. With Explanatory Notes. 
3 vols. demy 8vo, ; s, 

THE BASTILLE. With Illustrations. 2 vols. demy 8vo, 
323. 

B1RDWOOD (SIR GEORGE C. M.), C.SJ. 

THE INDUSTRIAL ARTS OF INDIA. With Map and 

174 Illustrations. New Edition. Demy 8vo, 14$, 
BLACK1E (JOHN STUART], &.JR.S.& 

THE SCOTTISH HIGHLANDERS AND THE LAND 

LAWS. Demy Bvo, 95. 

ALTAVQNA: FACT AND FICTION FROM MY LIFE 

IN THE HIGHLANDS. Third Edition. Oown 8vo, 6s. 
BLA THER WICK (CHARLES) 

PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS OF PETER STONNOR, 

Esq. With Illustrations by JAMES GUTHRIE and A. S. BOYD. Large crown 8vo, 6s. 

BLOOMFIELD'S (BENJAMIN LORD), MEMOIR OF 

MISSION TO THE COCJKT OF BERNABOTTE, Edited by GEORGIANA, 
BARONESS BtooMFmtt*, Author of "Reminiscences of Court and Diplomatic Life." 
With Portraits, a vols, demy 8vo, 28^. 



CHAPMAN 6- HALL, LIMITED. 



BOULGER (DEMETRIUS CO- 
GENERAL GORDON'S LETTERS FROM THE 

CRIMEA THE DANUBE, AND ARMENIA. 2 nd Edition. Crown 8vo, S s. 
BRADLEY (THOMAS), cf the Royal Military Academy, Woolwich- 

ELEMENTS OF GEOMETRICAL DRAWING. In Two 

Parts, with Sixty Plates. Oblong foho, half bound, each Part i6s. 
BRAY (MRS.} 

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF (born 1789, died 1883). 

Edited by JOHN A. KKMPE. With Portraits. Crown 8vo, xos. 6d. 



MRS. BRAYS NOVELS AND. ROMANCES. 

New and Revised Editions , with Frontispieces. $s. 6d, each. 



THE WHITE HOODS; a Romance of 

Flanders. 
DE FOIX ; a Romance of Beam. 



THE TALBA; or, The Moor of Portugal. 
THE PROTESTANT; a Tale of the Tunes 
of Queen Mary. 



NOVELS FOUNDED ON TRADITIONS OF DEVON AND 
CORNWALL. 



FITZ OFFITZFORD; a Tale of Destiny, 
HENRY DE POMEROY ; or, the Eve of 

St. John. 
TRELAWNY OF TRELAWNE; or, a 

Romance of the West. 



WARLEIGH ; or. The Fatal Oak. 
COURTENAY OF WALREDDON ; a 

Romance of the West. 
HARTLAND FOREST AND ROSE- 

TEAGUE. 



MISCELLANEOUS TALES. 

A FATHER'S CURSE AND A DAUGHTER'S SACRIFICE. 
TRIALS OF THE HEART. 



BRITISH ARMY, THE. By the Author of " Greater Britain," 

" The Present Position of European Politics," etc. Demy 8vo. 
BROADLEY (A. jfcT.) 

HOW WE DEFENDED ARABI AND HIS FRIENDS. 

A Story of Egypt and the Egyptians. Illustrated hy FREDERICK VILLIERS. 
Demy 8vo, 126. 

BftOMLEY-DAVMNPORT (the late W.), MP, 

SPORT: Fox Hunting, Salmon Fishing, Covert Shooting, 

Beer Stalking, With numerous Illustrations by General CKEALOCK, C.B. 
New Cheap Edition. Post 8vo, 35. 6d. 

Small 4to, 215. 



BUCKLAND 

LOG-BOOK OF A FISHERMAN AND ZOOLOGIST, 

With numerous Illustrations. Fifth Thousand. Crown 8vo, 5-5. 



BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



BUR CHE TT (.) 

DEFINITIONS OF GEOMETRY. New Edition. 241x10, 

cloth, sd 

LINEAR PERSPECTIVE, for the Use of Schools of Art. 

New Edition. With Illustrations. Post Svo, cloth, 75. 

PRACTICAL GEOMETRY : The Course of Construction 

of Plane Geometrical Figures. With 137 Diagrams. Eighteenth Edition. Post 
Svo, cloth, 55. 



BUTLER (A. 

COURT LIFE IN EGYPT, Second Edition. Illustrated. 

Large crown Svo. izs. 
CAMPION (y. .). 

ON THE FRONTIER. Reminiscences of Wild Sports, 

Personal Adventures, and Strange Scenes. With Illustrations. Second Edition. 
Demy Svo, i6s. 

ON FOOT IN SPAIN. With Illustrations. Second Edition. 

Demy Svo, ids. 
CARLYLE (THOMAS], WORKS BY.~~~ See pages 29 and 30. 

THE CARLYLE BIRTHDAY BOOK. Compiled, with 

the permission of Mr, Thomas Carlyle, by C. N. WILLIAMSON. Second Edition. 
Small fcap. Svo, 33. 

CHALDMAN AND ASSYRrAN ART 

A HISTORY OF ART IN CHALD/EA AND ASSYRIA. 

By GEORGES PERKOTand CHAKLHS CHIPIF.X. Translated by WALTER ARMSTRONG, 
B.A., Oxon. With 452 Illustrations. 2 vols. Imperial Svo, 42$. 

CHARNA Y (DESIRE)**- 

THE ANCIENT CITIES OF THE NEW WORLD. 

Being Travels and Explorations in Mexico and Central America, 18571882. 
Translated from the French by J. Conine and Helen S. Conant. With upwards ot 
200 Illustrations* Super Royal Svo, 31.*?, 6d 

CHURCH (PROFESSOR A, H.} t M.A., Oxon. 

FOOD GRAINS OF INDIA. With numerous Woodcuts. 

Small 4to, 6s. 

ENGLISH PORCELAIN. A Handbook to the China 

made in B'nglatid^durmtf the ^Eighteenth Century, as illustrated by Specimens 
chiefly in the National Collection, With numerous Woodcuts, Large crown 
Svo, 35. 

ENGLISH EARTHENWARE. A Handbook to the 

Wares made in England during the 17 th and *8th Centuries, as illustrated by 
Specimens in the Mational Collections, With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown 
Svo, 3 s. 

PLAIN WORDS ABOUT WATER, Illustrated. Crown 

Svo, sewed, 6d, 



CHAPMAN- 6- HALL, LIMITED. 



CHURCH (PROFESSOR A. H.}., M.A., Own. (Continued}- 

FOOD : ^ Some Account of its Sources, Constituents, and 

Uses. Sixth Thousand. Large Crown Svo, cloth, 35. 

PRECIOUS STONES : considered in their Scientific and 

Artistic Relations. With a Catalogue of the Townsend Collection of Gems in the 
South Kensington Museum. With a Coloured Plate and Woodcuts. Large crown 
Svo, ss. 6d. 

CLINTON (R. H.}~~ 

A COMPENDIUM OF ENGLISH HISTORY, from the 

Earliest Times to A.D. 1872. With Copious Quotations on the Leading Events and 
the Constitutional History, together with Appendices. Post Svo, 75. 6d. 

COBDEN, RICHARD, LIFE OF. By the RIGHT HON. JOHN 

MORLEY, M.P. With Portrait. Fourth Thousand. 2 vols. Demy 8vo, 323. 

New Edition, with Portrait. Crown 8vo 3 75, 6d. 
Popular Edition, with Portrait, 4to, sewed, is.; cloth, 23. 

COOKERY 

THE PYTCHLEY BOOK OF REFINED COOKERY 

AND BILLS OF FARE, By MAJOR L . Second Edition. Large crown Svo, 

8s. 

BREAKFASTS, LUNCHEONS, AND BALL SUPPERS. 

By MAJOR L . Crown Svo. 45. 

OFFICIAL HANDBOOK OF THE NATIONAL 

TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY. Containing Lessons on Cookery; 
forming the Course of Instruction in the School. Compiled by "R. O. C," 
Eighteenth Thousand. Largfe crown 8vo t 6s. 

BREAKFAST AND SAVOURY DISHES. By "R. O. C." 

Seventh Thousand. Crown 8vo, is. 

HOW TO COOK FISH. Compiled by "R. 0. C." 

Crown 8vo, sewed, 3d. 

SICK-ROOM COOKERY. Compiled by "R. 0. C." 

Crown Bvo, sewed, 6d. 

THE ROYAL CONFECTIONER : English and Foreign. 

A Practical Treatise. By C. E. FRANCATELLI. With numerous Illustrations. 
Fifth Thousand. Crown Svo, 55. 

THE KINGSWOOD COOKERY BOOK. By H. F. 

WICKEN. Crown Svo, as. 

COURTNEY (W. ,). M.A,, LL.D. 

STUDIES NEW AND OLD. Crown Svo. 

CONSTRUCTIVE ETHICS : A Review of Modern Philo- 

sophy and its Three Stages of Interpretation, Criticism, and, Reconstruction. 
Demy 8vo t izs. 



BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



CRAIK (GEORGE LILLIE} 

ENGLISH OF SHAKESPEARE. Illustrated in a Philo- 

logical Commentary on his "Julius Caesar." Seventh Edition. Post Svo, cloth, 55. 

OUTLINES OF THE HISTORY OF THE ENGLISH 

LANGUAGE. Tenth Edition. Post Svo, cloth, as. 6d, 
CRAWPURD (OSWALD} 

BEYOND THE SEAS; being the surprising Adventures 

and ingenious Opinions of Ralph, Lord St. Keyne, told by his kinsman, Humphrey 
St. Kcyne. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 35. 6d. 



CRIPPS (WILFRED JOSEPH], M.A., 

COLLEGE AND CORPORATION PLATE. A Hand- 

hook for the Reproduction of Silver Plate. [In the South Kensington Museum, 
jfrene celebrated English collections.} With numerous Illustrations, Large crown 
Svo, cloth, as. fid. 

DAIRY FARMING 

DAIRY FARMING. To which is added a Description of 

the Chief Continental Systems. With numerous Illustrations. By JAMES LONG. 
, Crown 8vo, ps, 

DAIRY FARMING, MANAGEMENT OF COWS, &c. 

By ARTHUR ROLAND. Edited by WILLIAM ABLSTT. Crown Svo, 55. 
DALY (/. B.), .>. 

IRELAND IN THE DAYS OF DEAN SWIFT. Crown 

8vo, ss. 
DAUBOURG (.} 

INTERIOR ARCHITECTURE. Doors, Vestibules, Stair- 

cases, Anterooms, Drawing, Dining, and Bed Rooms, Libraries, Bank and News- 
paper Office*, Shop Fronts and Interiors. Half-imperial, cloth, & xas. 6d. 

DAVIDSON (ELLIS A.) 

PRETTY ARTS FOR THE EMPLOYMENT OF 

LEISURE HOURS. A Book for Ladies. With Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 6s. 
DA V1TT (MICHAEL) 

LEAVES FROM A PRISON DIARY; or, Lectures 

to a Solitary Audience* Crown, Svo, 6s. 
Cheap Edition. Ninth Thousand. Crown 8vo, sewed, is. 6d. 

DA Y ( WILLIAM} 

THE RACEHORSE IN TRAINING, with Hints on 

Racing and Racing Reform, to which is added ft Chapter oa Shoeing. Fifth 
Edition. Demy 8vo, 98. 

DAS (DMVENDRA A^,) 

SKETCHES OF HINDOO LIRE; Crown Svo, 53. 

DE AINSUM (GENMR4L) 

A HISTORY OF THE ROYAL REGIMENT OF 

DRAGOONS. From its Formation in x66x to the Present Bay. "With Illustrations. 
Demy Svo, a is. 



CHAPMAN & JIALL, LIMITED. 



DB CHAMPEAUX (ALFRED) 

TAPESTRY. With numerous Woodcuts. Cloth, 23. 64 

DM FALLOUX (M.) - 

MEMOIRS OF A ROYALIST. Translated from the 

French by C. B. PITMAN, 2 vols. Demy 8vo. {In. the Press. 

D'HA USSOJV VILLE ( VICOMTE) 

SALON OF MADAME NECKER. Translated by H. M. 

TRQLLOPB. 2 vols. Crown 8vo, i8s. 
DR KONINCK(L. L.) andDIETZ (.) 

PRACTICAL MANUAL OF CHEMICAL ASSAYING, 

as applied to the Manufacture of Iron. Edited, with notes, by ROBERT MALLET. 
Post 8vo, cloth, 6s. 

DE LESS EPS (FERDINAND) 

RECOLLECTIONS OF FORTY YEARS. Translated 

from the French by C. B. PITMAN. 2 vols. Demy SVD, 245. 

DE LISLE (MEMOIR OF LIEUTENANT RUDOLPH), 

R.N., of the Naval Brigade. By the Rev. H. N. OXENHAM, M.A. Third 
Edition. Crown 8vo, 75. 6d. 

DE LUSfGNAN (THE PRINCESS) 

SCRAPS : POEMS. Crown Svo, is. 

DE MANDAT-GRAATCEY (BARON E.) 

PADDY AT HOME; OR, IRELAND AND THE IRISH AT 

THE PKRSKNT TIME, AS SEEN BY A FRENCHMAN. Txanslated from the French. 
Fourth Edition. Crown Svo, 25. 

DICKENS (CHARLES), WORKS BY Sec pages $t&. 

THE LETTERS OF CHARLES DICKENS. Two 

vols. uniform with " The Charles Dickens Edition " of his Works. Crown 8vo 8s. 

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS See JForster" 
THE CHARLES DICICENS BIRTHDAY BOOK. 

With. Five Illustrations. In a handsome fcap. 4to volume, 125. 

THE HUMOUR AND PATHOS OF CHARLES 

DICKENS. By CHARLES KENT. With Portrait. Crown 8vo, 6s. 
DOUGLAS (JOHN) 

SKETCH OF THE FIRST PRINCIPLES OF PHYSIO- 

GRAPH Y. With numerous Illustrations. Crown Svo, 

DOWN WITH ENGLAND. Translated from the French. 

With. Maps. Crown Svo, is. 
DRAYSON (MAJOR-GENERAL A. W.) t Late R.A., F.R.A.S. 

EXPERIENCES OF A WOOLWICH PROFESSOR 

* during Fifteen Years at the Royal Military Academy. Demy Svo, 8s. 

THE CAUSE OF THE SUPPOSED PROPER MOTION 

OF THE FIXED STARS. Demy Svo, cloth, IDS. 

PRACTICAL MILITARY SURVEYING AND 

SKETCHING, Fifth Edition. JPost vo, cloth, 45, 6d. 

B 



BOOKS PUBLISHED B Y 



DRAGE (GEOFFREY} 

CRIMINAL CODE OF THE GERMAN EMPIRE. 

Translated with Prolegomena, and a Commentary, by G. DRAGE. Crown Svo, 8s. 

DREAMS BY A FRENCH FIRESIDE. Translated from the 

German by MARY O'CALLAGHAN. Illustrated by Fred Roe. Crown 8vo, ys. 6d. 
DUFFY (SIR CHARLES OAVAN), K.C.M.G. 

THE LEAGUE OF NORTH AND SOUTH. An Episode 

in Irish History, 1850-1854. Crown Svo, 8s. 
DYCM (WILL/AM], JR. A. 

DRAWING-BOOK OF THE GOVERNMENT SCHOOL 

OF DESIGN ; OR, ELEMENTARY OUTLINES OF ORNAMENT. Fifty 
selected Plates. Folio, sewed, 55. ; mounted, i8s. 

ELEMENTARY OUTLINES OF ORNAMENT. Plates I. 

to XXIL, containing 97 Examples, adapted for Praciice of Standards I. to IV. 
Small folio, sewed, as. 6d. 

SELECTION FROM DYCE'S DRAWING BOOK. 

15 Plates, sewed, is .6d.; mounted on cardboard, 6s. 6d. 

TEXT TO ABOVE. Crown Svo, sewed, 6d. 

EDWARDS (H. SUTHERLAND) 

FAMOUS FIRST REPRESENTATIONS. Crown Svo, 

6s. 

EGYPTIAN ART 

A HISTORY OF ART IN ANCIENT EGYPT. By 

G. PRRROT and C. CHIPIEZ. Translated by WALTER ARMSTRONG. With over 
600 Illustrations. 2 vols. Imperial Svo, % as, 

ELLIS (A. ., Major tst West India Raiment} 

WEST AFRICAN STORIES. Crown Svo. 

THE TSHI-SPEAKING PEOPLES OF THE GOLD 

COAST OF WEST AFRICA: their Rdigiun, Manners, Customs, Laws, 
Language, &c. With Map. Demy Svo, ios, 6d, 

SOUTH AFRICAN SKETCHES. Crown Svo, 6s. 

WEST AFRICAN ISLANDS. Demy 8vo, 145. 

THE HISTORY OF THE WEST INDIA REGI- 

MENT. With Maps and Coloured Frontispiece and Title-page. Demy 8vo, x8s. 

THE LAND OF FETISH. Demy Svo, 123, 

EN GEL (CARL} 

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. With numerous Woodcuts. 

Large crown Svo, cloth, as. 6d, 
ESCOTT (T. & S.) 

POLITICS AND LETTERS. Demy Svo, gs. 
ENGLAND. ITS PEOPLE, POLITY, AND PURSUITS. 

New and Revised Edition. Sixth Thousand, Svo, 8s. 



CHAPMAN & HALL, LIMITED. 



EUROPEAN POLITICS, THE PRESENT POSITION OF. 

By the Author of " Greater Britain." Demy Svo, 125. 
FANE (VIOLET} 

QUEEN OF THE FAIRIES (A Village Story), and other 

Poeins. Crown 8vo, 6s. 

ANTHONY BABINGTON : a Drama. Crown Svo, 6s. 

FIFE-COOKSON (LIEUT-COL. J. C.) 

TIGER-SHOOTING IN THE BOON AND ULWAR, 

AND LIFE IN INDIA. With numerous Illustrations by E. HOBDAY, R.H.A. 
Large crown 8vo, IDS. 6d, 

FITZGERALD, PERCY 

THE CHRONICLES OF BOW STREET POLICE 

COURT. With numerous Illustrations. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. [In the Press. 
FLEMING (GEORGE], F.R.C.S. 

ANIMAL PLAGUES: THEIR HISTORY, NATURE, 

AND PREVENTION. Svo, cloth, i 5 s. 

PRACTICAL HORSE-SHOEING. With 37 Illustrations. 

Fifth Edition, enlarged. Svo, sewed, 25. 

RABIES AND HYDROPHOBIA: THEIR HISTORY, 

NATURE, CAUSES, SYMPTOMS, AND PREVENTION. With 8 Illustra- 
tions. Svo, cloth, 153. 

FORSTER (JOHN} 

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. Uniform with 

the Illustrated Library Edition of Dickens's Works. 2 vols. Demy Svo, sos. 

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. Uniform with 

the Library Edition. Post Svo, los. 6d, 

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. Uniform with 

the "C. D." Edition. With Numerous Illustrations, a vols. 75. 

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. Uniform with 

the Household Edition. With Illustrations by F. BARNARD. Crown 410, cloth, 55. 

WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR : a Biography, 1775-1864, 

With Portrait. A New and Revised Edition. Demy Svo, iss. 

FORSTER, THE LIFE OF THE RIGHT HON. W. E. 

By T. WEMYSS REID. With Portraits. Demy Svo,. 
FQRTESCUE (THE HON. JOHN} 

RECORDS OF STAG-HUNTING ON EXMOOR. With 

14 full page Illustrations by EDGAR GIBERNE. Large crown Svo, i6s. 
FOR TNIGHTL Y J% VIE W 

FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW. First Series, May, 1865, to 

Dec. 1866. 6 vols. Cloth, 135. each. 

New Series, 1867 to 1872. In Half-yearly Volumes. Cloth, 

138. each. 

From January, 1873, to the present time, in Half-yearly 

Volumes. Cloth, i6s. each. 

CONTENTS OF FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW. From 

the commencement to end of 1878. Sewed, ss. 

B 2 



12 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



fORTNUM (C. A . 

MAJOLICA. With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown 

8vo, cloth, 2S. 6d. 

BRONZES. With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown 

8vo, cloth, as. 6d. 
FOUQUB (DE LA A10TTE} 

UNDINE : a Romance translated from the German. With 

an Introduction by JULIA CARTWKIGHT. Illustrated by HEYWOOD SUMNER. 
Crown 4(0. $s. 

FRANCATELLI (C. E.) 

THE ROYAL CONFECTIONER : English and Foreign. 

A Practical Treatise. With Illustrations. Fifth Ediiion. Crown Svo, 55. 
JFRANCJS (FRANCIS), JUNR. 

SADDLE AND MOCASSIN. Svo, 125. 
FRANKS (A. H/.) 

JAPANESE POTTERY. Being a Native Report, with an 

Introduction and Catalogue. With numerous Illustrations and Marks. Large 
crown Svo, cloth, ss. 6d. 

FROBEL, FRIEDRICH; a Short Sketch of his Life, including 

FrGbel's Letters from Dresden and Leipzig to his Wife, now first Translated into 
English. By EMILY SHIRREFF. Crown 8vo, as. 

CALLENGA (ANTONIO} 

ITALY: PRESENT AND FUTURE. 2vols. Dmy.8vo )2 is. 
EPISODES OF MY SECOND LIFE. 2 vols. Dray. 8v O) 285. 
IBERIAN REMINISCENCES. Fifteen Years' Travelling 

Impressions of Spain and Portugal. With a Map. a vols. Demy Svo, 325. 
CASNA ULT (PA UL] and GAKNIJ&R (ED. ) 

FRENCH POTTERY. With Illustrations and Marks. 

Large crown Svo, 35. 
G1LLMQRE (PARKER) 

THE HUNTER'S ARCADIA. With numerous Illustra- 

tions. Demy 8vo, xos* 6d. 

GIRL'S LIFE EIGHTY YEARS AGO (A). Selections from 

the Letters of Eliza Southgate Bowne, with an Introduction by Clarence Cook. 
Illustrated with Portraits and Views. Crown 410. 

GORDON (GENERAL) 

LETTERS FROM THE CRIMEA, THE DANUBE, 

AND ARMENIA, Edited by DBMBTHUJS C. BOULCEK. Second Edition. 
Crown Svo, 58. 

fJORST (SIR y. .), Q.C., M.P. 

An ELECTION MANUAL. Containing the Parliamentary 

Elections (Corrupt and Illegal Practices) Act, 1883, with Notes. Third Edition. 
Crown 8vo, is. 6d. 

GOWER (A. R) t Royal School of Mines 

PRACTICAL METALLURGY. With Illustrations, Crown 

8vo. 
GRAHAM (SIR GERALD), V.C., K,C,B.~~ 

LAST WORDS WITH GORDON. Crown 8vo, cloth, is. 



CHAPMAN &> HALL, LIMITED. 13 

GRESWELL (WILLIAM}, M.A., FR CI~ 

OUR SOUTH AFRICAN EMPIRE. With Map. 2 vols, 

Crown Svo, 2r?. 
GREV1LLE (LADY VIOLET) 

MONTROSE. With an Introduction by the EARL OF 

ASHBURNHAM. With Portraits. Large crown 8vo, 75 6<1 
GRIFFIN ($jR LEPEL HENKY) } K.C.S.I. 



. 

THE GREAT REPUBLIC. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, 

48. 6d. 9 

GRIFFITHS (MAJOR ARTHUR), H.M. Inspector of Prisons- 

CHRONICLES OF NEWGATE. Illustrated. New 

Edition. Derny 8vo, i6s. 

MEMORIALS OF MILLBANK: or, Chapters in Prison 

History. Wuli Illustrations by R. Goff and Author. New Edition. Demy 8vOj 
GRIMBLE (AUGUSTUS)- 

DEER-STALKING. With 6 Full-page Illustrations. Large 

crown 8vo, 6s. 
HALL (SfDNEY) 

A TRAVELLING ATLAS OF THE ENGLISH COUN- 

TIES. Fifty Maps, coloured. New Edition, including the Railways, corrected 
Up to the present date. Demy Svo, in roan tuck, xos, 6a. 

HARDY (LADY DUFFUS} 

THROUGH CITIES AND PRAIRIE LANDS, Sketches 

of an American Tour. Demy 8vo, 145. 
HATTON (JOSEPH) and HARVEY (REV. AT.) 

NEWFOUNDLAND. The Oldest British Colony. Its 

History, Past and Present, and its Prospects in the Future. Illustrated from 
Photographs and Sketches specially made for this work. Demy Svo, i8s, 

HAWKINS (FREDERICK} 

THE 1<RENCH STAGE IN THE EIGHTEENTH 

CENTURY. With Portraits, vols. Demy Svo, sos. 

ANNALS OF THE FRENCH STAGE: FROM ITS 

ORIGIN TO THE DEATH OF RACINE. 4 Portraits. 2 vols. Demy Svo, 
HILDEBRAND (HANS\ t Royal Antiquary of Sweden 

INDUSTRIAL ARTS OK SCANDINAVIA IN THE 

PAGAN TIME* With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown 8vo, sts. 6d. 
HILL (MISS .)- 

THE PLEASURES AND PROFITS OF OUR LITTLE 

POULTRY FARM, Small Svo, 35. 
HOLBEIN-- 

TWELVE HEADS AFTER HOLBEIN. Selected from 

Drawings in Her Majesty's Collection at Windsor. Reproduced in Autotype, in 
portfolio. ji i6s, 

HOLLINGSftEAD (JOHN) 

FOOTLIGHTS. Crown Svo, 75. 6d. 



14 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



HOPE (ANDJR&E) 

CHRONICLES OF AN OLD INN; or, a Few Words 

about Gray's Inn. Crown Svo, 55, 
HOVELACQUR (ABEL} 

THE SCIENCE OF LANGUAGE: LINGUISTICS, 

PHILOLOGY, AND ETYMOLOGY. With Maps. Large crown 8vo, cloth, S s. 
HUMPHRIS (H.D.}-~ 

PRINCIPLES OF PERSPECTIVE. Illustrated in a 

Series of Examples. Oblong folio, half-bound, and Text 8vo, cloth, ^i is. 
HUNTL Y (MARQ UfS OF) 

TRAVELS, SPORTS, AND POLITICS IN THE EAST 

OF EUROPE. With Illustrations by the Marchioness of Huntly. Large 
Crown 8vo, iss. 

I.D.B. ; or, the Adventures of Solomon Davis on the Diamond 

Fields and Elsewhere. By W. T. E. Crown 8vo, 6s. 

INDUSTRIAL ARTS: Historical Sketches. With numerous 

Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, 35. 

INTERNATIONAL POLICY: Essay on the Foreign Relations 

of England. By FREDERIC HARRISON, PROF. BEKSLEY. RICHARD CONGREVE, 
and others. New Edition. Crown 8vo, as. 6d. 

IRELAND IN THE DAYS OF DEAN SWIFT. By J. B. 

DALY, LL.D. Crown 8vo, $s. 
IRON (RALPH}, (OLIVE SCHJRIENER) 

THE STORY OF AN AFRICAN FARM. Third Edition. 

Crown 8vo, cloth, as. 
JA CKSON (PKANfC G. ), Master in the tiinntngham Mjttnci/a! School of Art 

DECORATIVE DESIGN. An Elementary Text Book of 

Principles and Practice. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 
JAMES (&ENRY A.) 

HANDBOOK TO PERSPECTIVE. Crown 8vo. 2$. 6d. 

JAJKRY (GENERAL} 

OUTPOST DUTY, Translated, with TREATISES ON 

MILITARY RECONNAISSANCE AND ON ROAD-MAKINO. by Major- 
Gen. W. C* E. NAPIER, Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 5$. 

JEANS (W. r.J 

CREATORS OF THE AGE OF STEEL Memoirs of 

Sir W. Siemens, Sir H. Bessemer, Sir J, Whuworth, Sir J. Brown, aiid other 
Inventors. Second Edition, Crown 8vo, 7*. 6d. 

JOHNSON (DR. SAMUEL}-. 

LIFE AND CONVERSATIONS OF DR. SAMUEL 

JOHNSON. By A. MAIN. Crdwn 8vo, io. 6d. 
JONES (CAPTA/N DOUGLAS), jR,A.^ 

NOTES ON MILITARY LAW, Crown $vo, 43. 



CHAPMAN & HALL, LIMITED. 15 

JONES. HANDBOOK OF THE JONES COLLECTION 

IN THE SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM. Wit* Portrait and Wood- 
cuts. Large crown 8vo, 25. 6d. 

KENT (CHARLES} 

HUMOUR AND PATHOS OF CHARLES DICKENS. 

Crown 8vo, 6s. 
KLACZKQ (M. JULIAN}- 

TWO CHANCELLORS : PRINCE GORTCHAKOF AND 

PRINCE BISMARCK. Translated byMns-TAiT. New and cheaper Edition, 6s. 
XNOLLYS (MAJOR HENRY], JR. A. 

SKETCHES OF LIFE IN JAPAN. With Illustrations. 

Large crown Svo, 123. 

LACORDAIRE'S JESUS CHRISt; GOD; AND GOD AND 

MAN. Conferences delivered at Notre Dame in Paris. New Edition. 
Crown Svo, 6s. 

LAING () 

MODERN SCIENCE AND MODERN THOUGHT. 

With a Supplementary Chapter on Gladstone's " Dawn of Creation" and Drummond's 
"Natural Law in the Spiritual World." Fourth and Cheaper Edition. Demy 
Svo, 75. 6d. 

LA VELE YE (EMILE DE} 

THE ELEMENTS OF POLITICAL ECONOMY. 

Translated by W. POLLARD, B.A., St: John's College, Oxford. Crown Svo, 6*. 
LANDO& ( W. S. ) 

LIFE AND WORKS. 8 vols. 

VOL. i. WALTER SAVAGE LANDOR. A Biography in Eight Books. By 

JOHN FORSTKH. Demy Svo, 12$. 
VOL. 2. Out of print. 
VOL. 3. CONVERSATIONS OF SOVEREIGNS AND STATESMEN, AND 

FIVE DIALOGUES OF BOCCACCIO AND PETRARCA. 

Demy 8vo 145. 

VOL. 4. DIALOGUES OF LITERARY MEN. Demy Svo, 145. 
VOL. 5. DIALOGUES OP LITERARY MEN (continued). FAMOUS 

WOMEN. LETTERS OF PERICLES AND ASPASIA. And 

Minor Prose Pieces. Demy Svo, 14$. 

VOL. 6. MISCELLANEOUS CONVERSATIONS. Demy 8vo, 145. 
VOL, 7. GEBIR, ACTS AND SCENES AND HELLENICS. Poems. 

Demy Svo, 148. 

Vou 8. MISCELLANEOUS POEMS AND CRITICISMS ON THEO- 
CRITUS, CATULLUS, AND PETRARCH. Demy Svo, 145. 

LR CONTM (/OS&Pff), Professor of Geology and Natural Histoiy in the Uni~ 
versify of California. 

EVOLUTION AND ITS RELATIONS TO RELIGIOUS 

THOUGHT. Crown Bvo. 55. 



1 6 BOOKS PUBLISHED B Y 

LEFEVRE (ANDRE} 

PHILOSOPHY, Historical and Critical. Translated, with 

an Introduction, by A* W. KEANE, B.A. Large crown Svo, 75. 6d. 
LESLIE (R. C.) 

A SEA PAINTER'S LOG. With 12 Full-page Illustrations 

by the Author. Large crown 8vo, 125. 
LETOURNEAU (DR. CHARLES) 

SOCIOLOGY. Based upon Ethnology. Translated by 

HENRY M. TROLLOPS. Large crown 8vo, IDS. 

BIOLOGY. Translated by WILLIAM MACCALL. With Illus- 

trations. Large crown Svo, 6s. 
LILLY (W. .) 

CHAPTERS ON EUROPEAN HISTORY, With an 

Introductory Dialogue on the Philosophy of History. 2 vols. Demy Svo, 215. 

ANCIENT RELIGION AND MODERN THOUGHT. 

Third Edition, revised, with additions. Demy Svo, izs. 
LITTLE (THE REV. CANON KNOX} 

THE CHILD OF STAFFERTON. Crown Svo. 

THE BROKEN VOW. A Story of Here and Hereafter. 

Third Edition. Crown Svo, as. 6d. 

LLOYD (COLONEL E.M.), R.E., Me Professor of Fortification at the Royal 
Military Academy, Woolwich 

VAUBAN, MONTALEMBERT, CARNOT : ENGINEER 

STUDIES. With Portraits. Crown Svo, 53. 
LONG (JAMES) 

DAIRY FARMING. To which is added a Description of 

the Chief Continental Systems. Wiih numerous Illustrations. Crown Svo, 95. 
LOW (C #.) 

SOLDIERS OF THE VICTORIAN AGE. 2 vols. Demy 

8VO, ;l IOS 



TABLE DECORATION. With 19 Full Illustrations. 

Demy Svo, 6s. 
LYTTON (ROBRT, MARL} 

POETICAL WORKS- 

FABLES IN SONG, a vols. Fcap 8vo, xas. 

THE WANDERER. Fcap. Svo, 6s. 

POEMS, HISTORICAL AND CHARACTERISTIC, Fcap. 6s. 



CHAPMAN & HALL, LIMITED. 17 



MACDONALD (FKEDER2KA) 

PUCK AND PEARL: THE WANDERINGS AND WONDER- 
INGS OF TWO 1-NGLISH CHILDREN IN INDIA. By FREDERIKA MACDONALD. 

With. Illustrations by MRS. IRVING GRAHAM. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 55. 
MALLET (ROBERT} 

PRACTICAL MANUAL OF CHEMICAL ASSAYING, 

as applied to the Manufacture of Iron. By L. L. Ds KONINCK and E. DIETZ. 
Edited, with, notes, by ROBERT MALLET* Post Svo, cloth, 6s. 

MASJZELL (ALFRED} 

RUSSIAN ART AND ART OBJECTS IN RUSSIA. 

A Handbook to the Reproduction of Goldsmiths' Work and other Art Treasures. 
With Illustrations. Large crown Svo, 43. 6d. 

MASKELL ( WILLIAM) 

IVORIES ; ANCIENT AND MEDIAEVAL. With mime- 

rous Woodcuts. Large crown Svo, cloth, as. 6d. 

HANDBOOK TO THE DYCE AND FORSTER COL- 
LECTIONS. With Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, cloth, 2S. 6d. 

MA UDSLA Y (A THQL} 

HIGHWAYS AND HORSES. With numerous Illustra- 

tions. 2 vols. Demy Svo. 



GEORGE MEREDITH'S WORKS. 

A New and Uniform Edition* Crown 8vo, Six Shillings each, 

DIANA OF THE CROSSWAYS. 

EVAN HARRINGTON. 

THE ORDEAL OF RICHARD FEVEREL. 

THE ADVENTURES OF HARRY RICHMOND. 

SANDRA BELLONI. Originally EMILIA IN ENGLAND. 

VITTORIA. 

RHODA FLEMING. 

BEAUCHAMP'S CAREER. 

THE EGOIST. 

THE SHAVING OF SHAGPAT : AN ARABIAN ENTER- 
TAINMENT; AND FARINA. 

MBRWAL& (HERMAN CHARLES] 

BINKO'S BLUES. A Tale for Children of all Growths, 

Illustrated by EDGAR GIBBRNB. Small crown Svo, 53. 

THE WHITE PILGRIM, and other Poems. Crown Svo, 93. 

c 



iS &00&S PUBLISHED BY 



MILITARY BIOGRAPHIES- 
FREDERICK THE GREAT, ByCoL.C.B.BRACKENBURY. 

With Maps and Portrait, Large crown 8vo 3 45. 

LOUDON. A Sketch of the Military Life of Gideon 

Ernest, Freicherr von Loudon, sometime Generalissimo of the Austrian Forces. 
By COL. G. B. MALLESON, C.S.I. With Portrait and Maps. Large crown 
Svo, 43. 

TURENNE. By H. M. HOZIER. With Portrait and Two 

Maps. Large crown Svo, 43. 

PARLIAMENTARY GENERALS OF THE GREAT 

CIVIL WAR. By MAJOR WALFORD, R.A. With Maps. Large crown Svo, 43. 

GEORGE WASHINGTON, By LIEUT.- COL. COOPER 

KING. Large crown Svo. With Portrait and Maps. 

PRINCE EUGENE OF SAVOY. By COL. G. B. MALLE- 

SON, C.S.I. With Portrait and Maps. Large crown Svo. 

FRENCH REVOLUTIONARY GENERALS. By MAJOR 

ARTHUR GRIFFITHS. Large crown Svo. 
MOLES WORTH ( W. NASSA U) 

HISTORY OF ENGLAND FROM THE YEAR 1830 

TO THE RESIGNATION OF THE GLADSTONE MINISTRY, 1874. 
Twelfth Thousand, svols. Crown Svo, 1 8s. 

ABRIDGED EDITION. Large crown, 73, 6d. 

MOLTKE (FIELD-MARSHAL COUNT VON} 

POLAND : AN HISTORICAL SKETCH. An Authorised 

Translation, with Biographical Notice by . S. BacHHEiM, Crown 8voj 43. 6d. 

MORLKY (THE RIGHT HON. JOHN), Af.P. 

RICHARD COBDEN'S LIFE AND CORRESPON- 

DENCB. Fourth Thousand, a vols. Demy Svo. /i 12$. 

Crown Svo Edition, with Portrait, 7$. 6cL 

Popular Edition. With Portrait. 4to, sewed, is. Cloth, 2S. 

MUNTZ (EUGENE)- 

RAPHAEL : his Life, Works, and Times. Illustrated with 

about 200 Engravings. A new Edition, revised from the Second French Edition 
"by W. ARMSTRONG, B.A, Oxon. Imperial 8vo, 25$. 

MURRAY (ANDREW), *!.$. 

ECONOMIC ENTOMOLOGY, APTERA. With nume- 

rous Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, 75. 6d. 



CHAPMAN' 6- HALL, LIMITED. 19 

NAPIER (MAJ.-GEN. W.C. E.}~- 

TRANSLATION OF GEN. JARRY'S OUTPOST DUTY. 

With TREATISES ON MILITARY RECONNAISSANCE AND ON 
ROAD-MAKING. Third Edition. Crown 8vo, 55, 

NAPOLEON. A Selection from the Letters and Despatches of 

the First Napoleon. With Explanatory Notes by Captaia the Hon. D. BINGHAM. 
3 vols. Demy 8vo, 2 25. 

NECKER (MADAME} 

THE SALON OF MADAME NECKER. By VICOMTE 

D'HAUSSONVILLE. Translated by H. M. TKOLLOPE. 2 vols. Crown 8vo, t8s. 
NESBITT (ALEXANDER} 

GLASS. With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown 8vo, 

cloth, ss. 6d. 
NE VINSON (HENR Y}~ 

A SKETCH OF HERDER AND HIS TIMES. With 

a Portrait. Demy 8vo, 145. 
NEWTON (E. TULLEY), P.G.S. 

THE TYPICAL PARTS IN THE SKELETONS OF 

A CAT, DUCK, AND CODFISH, being a Catalogue with Comparative 
Description arranged in a Tabular form. Demy 8vo, cloth, 35. 

N1LSEN (CAPTAIN) 

LEAVES FROM THE LOG OF THE "HOMEWARD 

BOUND " ; or, Eleven Months at Sea in an Open Boat. Crown 8vo, is. 
NORMAN (C. A) 

TONKIN ; OR, FRANCE IN THE FAR EAST. With 

Maps. Demy 8vo, 145. 
OGRADY (STAND1SH) 

TORYISM AND THE TORY DEMOCRACY. Crown 

8vo, ss. 
OLIVER (PROFESSOR}, F.R.S., 6v. 

ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE PRINCIPAL NATURAL 

ORDERS OF THE VEGETABLE KINGDOM, PREPARED FOR THE 
SCIENCE AND ART DEPARTMENT, SOUO?H KENSINGTON. With 
109 Plates. Oblong 8vo, plain, i6s. ; coloured, 1 6s. 

QXBNHAM (REV. H. N.)~- 

MEMOIR OF LIEUTENANT RUDOLPH DE LISLE, 

R.N., OF THE NAVAL BRIGADE. Third Edition, with Illustrations. 
Crown 8vo, ys. 6d. 

SHORT STUDIES, ETHICAL AND RELIGIOUS. 

Demy 8vo> xas. 

SHORT STUDIES IN ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY 

AND BIOGRAPHY. Demy 8vo, us. 



20 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



PERROT (GEORGES) and CHIPIEZ (CHARLES) 

A HISTORY OF ANCIENT ART IN PHOENICIA 

AND ITS DEPENDENCIES. Translated from the French by WALTER 
ARMSTRONG, B.A. Oxon. Containing 644 Illustrations in the text, and 10 Steel 
and Coloured Plates, y. vols. Imperial 8vo, 428. 

A HISTORY OF ART IN CHALD^EA AND ASSYRIA. 

Translated by WALTER ARMSTRONG, B.A, Oxon. With 452 Illustrations. 2 vols. 
Imperial 8vo, 425. 

A HISTORY OF ART IN ANCIENT EGYPT. Trans- 

lated from the French by W. ARMSTRONG, B.A. Oxon. With over 600 Illustra- 
tions. 2 vols. Imperial 8vo, 425. 

PETERBOROUGH (THE EARL OF) 

THE EARL OF PETERBOROUGH AND MON- 

MOUTH (Charles Mordaunt) : A Memoir. By Colonel FRANK RUSSELL, Royal 
Dragoons. With Illustrations. 2 vols. demy 8vo. 325. 

P&CENICIAN ART 

A HISTORY OF ANCIENT ART IN PHOENICIA 

AND ITS DEPENDENCIES. By GEORGES PERROT and CHARLES CHIPIEZ. 
Translated from the French by WALTER ARMSTRONG, B.A. Oxon. Containing 
644 Illustrations in the text, and 10 Steel and Coloured Plates. 2 vols. Imperial 
8vo, 425. 

FILL/NO (WILLIAM) 

ORDER FROM CHAOS : a Treatise on Land Tenure. 

Large crown 8vo. as. 6d. 
PITT TA YLOR (FRANK) 

THE CANTERBURY TALES. Selections from the Tales 

of GEOFFREY CHAUCER rendered into Modern English, with close adherence 
to the language of the Poet. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, 6s. 



POLLEN (J. 

GOLD AND SILVER SMITH'S WORK. With nume- 

rotis Woodcuts. Large crown 8vo, cloth, as. 6d. 

ANCIENT AND MODERN FURNITURE AND 

WOODWORK. With numerous Woodcuts. Large crown 8ro, cloth, as. d. 



CHAPMAN &> HALL, LIMITED, 21 



POOLE (STANLEY LANE], B.A., M.R.A.S. 

THE ART OF THE SARACENS IN EGYPT. Pub- 

lished for the Committee of Council on Education. With 108 Woodcuts. Large 
crown 8vo, 45. 

POYNTER (E. J.}, R.A. 

TEN LECTURES ON ART. Third Edition. Large 

crown Svo, 95. 
PRINSEP (VAL\ A.R.A. 

IMPERIAL INDIA. Containing numerous Illustrations 

and Maps. Second Edition. Demy 8vo, 1 is. 

RADICAL PROGRAMME, THE. From the Fortnightly 

Review, with additions. With, a Preface by the RIGHT HON. J. CHAMBERLAIN, 
M.P. Thirteenth Thousand. Crown Svo, 25. 6d. 

RAMSDEN (LADY GWENDOLEN} 

A BIRTHDAY BOOK. Illustrated. Containing 46 Illustra- 
tions from Original Drawings, and numerous other Illustrations. Royal Svo, 215. 

RAPHAEL : his Life, Works, and Times. By EUGENE MUNTZ. 

Illustrated with about 200 Engravings. A New Edition, revised from the Second 
French Edition. By W. ARMSTRONG, B.A. Imperial Svo, 255. 

REDGRAVE (GILBERT} 

OUTLINES OF HISTORIC ORNAMENT. Translated 

from the German. Edited by GILBERT REDGRAVE. With numerous Illustrations. 
Crown Svo, 45. 

REDGRA VE (GILBER T R, ) 

MANUAL OF DESIGN, compiled from the Writings and 

Addresses of RICHARD RBDGRAVE, R.A. With Woodcuts. Large crown Svo, cloth, 
2S. 6d* 

REDGRA VE (RICHARD} 

ELEMENTARY MANUAL OF COLOUR, with a 

Catechism on Colour, 24:010, cloth, gd, 
REDGRA VE (SAMUEL} 

A DESCRIPTIVE CATALOGUE OF THE HIS 

TORICAL COLLECTION OF WATER-COLOUR PAINTINGS IN THE 
SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM. With numerous Chrome-lithographs and 
other Illustrations. Royal Svo, ;i is. 

REID (T, WEMYSS} 

THE LIFE OF THE RIGHT HON. W. E. FORSTER. 

With Portraits, a vols. demy Svo. 



BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



RENAN (ERNEST} 

HISTORY OF THE PEOPLE OF ISRAEL TILL THE 

TIME OF KING DAVID. Translated from the French by C. B. PITMAN. 
Demy Svo, 143. 

RECOLLECTIONS OF MY YOUTH. Translated from 

the original French, and revised by MADAME RENAN. Crown 8vo, 8s. 
REYNARDSON (C. T. S. BIRCH} 

SPORTS AND ANECDOTES OF BYGONE DAYS 

in England, Scotland, Ireland, Italy, and the Sunny South, With numerous 
Illustrations in Colour. Second Edition. Large crown 8vo, 123. 

DOWN THE ROAD: Reminiscences of a Gentleman 

Coachman. With Coloured Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, iss. 
RIANO (JUAN F.}- 

THE INDUSTRIAL ARTS IN SPAIN. With numerous 

Woodcuts. Large crown 8vo, cloth, 4$, 
RIBTON-TURNER (C. /.) 

A HISTORY OF VAGRANTS AND VAGRANCY AND 

BEGGARS AND BEGGING. With Illmtrati sn. Demy 8vo, s*s. 
ROBINSON (JAMES F.)~ 

BRITISH BEE FARMING. Its Profits and Pleasures, 

Large crown 8vo, gs, 
ROBINSON (J. CO- 

ITALIAN SCULPTURE OF THE MIDDLE AGES 

AND PERIOD OF THE REVIVAL OF ART, With 20 Engravings. Royal 
8vo, cloth, ys. 6d. 

ROBSON (GEORGE) 

ELEMENTARY BUILDING CONSTRUCTION. Illus- 

tratect by a Design for an Entrance Lodge and Gate. 15 Plates, Oblong folio, 
sewed, 8s. 

ROBSON (REV. J. #.), M.A., IL.M.~~~ 

AN ELEMENTARY TREATISE ON ALGEBRA. 

Post 8vo, 6s. 
ROCK(THE VMRYRMV. CANON), &.D*-. 

TEXTILE FABRICS. With numerous Woodcuts, Large 

crown 8vo, cloth, as, 6d. 



ROOSE (ROBSON}, MJ9..AC5, 

THE WEAR AND TEAR OF LONDON LIFE. 

Crown 8vo, sewed, is, 



CHAPMAN & HALL, LI Mil ED. 23 



ROLAND (ARTHUR}-* 

FARMING FOR PLEASURE AND PROFIT. Edited 

by WILLIAM ABLETT. 8 vols. Crown 8vo, 55. each, 
DAIRY-FARMING, MANAGEMENT OF COWS, c. 
POULTRY-KEEPING. 

TREE-PLANTING, FOR ORNAMENTATION OR PROFIT. 
STOCK-KEEPING AND CATTLE-REARING. 
DRAINAGE OF LAND, IRRIGATION, MANURES, Sec. 
ROOT-GROWING, HOPS, &c. 
MANAGEMENT OF GRASS LANDS, LAYING DOWN GRASS, 

ARTIFICIAL GRASSES, c. 

MARKET GARDENING, HUSBANDRY FOR FARMERS AND 
GENERAL CULTIVATORS. 

R US DEN (G. W.), for many years Clerk of the Parliament in Victoria 

A HISTORY OF AUSTRALIA. With a Coloured Map. 

3 vols. Demy Svo, 505, 

A HISTORY OF NEW ZEALAND. With Maps. 3 vols. 

Demy Svo, $os. 

"RUSSIA'S HOPE," THE; OR, BRITANNIA NO LONGER 

RULES THE WAVES. Showing how the Muscovite Bear got at the British Whale. 
Translated from the original Russian by CHARLES JAMES COOKE. Crown Svo, is. 

RUSSELL (COLONEL FRANK), Royal Dragoons 

THE EARL OF PETERBOROUGH AND MON- 

MOUTH (Charles Mordaunt) : A Memoir. With Illustrations. 2 vols, demy Svo, 322. 

SCIENCE AND ART : a Journal for Teachers and Scholars. 

Issu'd monthly. 3^. See page 39. 
SCOTT (MAJOR-GENERAL A. DE C.), loU Royal Engineers 

LONDON WATER ; a Review of the Present Condition and 

Suggested Improvements of the Metropolitan Water Supply, Crown Svo, sewed, 25. 
SCOTT (LEADER) 

THE RENAISSANCE OF ART IN ITALY: an Illus- 

trated Sketch. With upwards of 200 Illustrations. Medium quarto, i8s. 
SCOTT-STEVENSON (MRS. ) 

ON SUMMER SEAS. Including the Mediterranean, the 

yEgean, the Ionian, and the Euxine, and a voyage down the Danube. With a 
Map, Demy Svo, 1 6s, 

OUR HOME IN CYPRUS. With a Map and Illustra- 

tions. Third Edition, Demy 8vOj 145. 

OUR RIDE THROUGH ASIA MINOR. With Map. 

Demy Svo, xSb. 
SJBEMAN (a) 

THE MYTHOLOGY OF GREECE AND ROME, with 

Special Refu*enee to its Use in Art From the German. Edited by G. H. 
BIANCHI. 64 Illustrations. New Edition. Crown Svo, 55, 

SMMPHERD (MAJOR), J?..^ 

PRAIRIE EXPERIENCES IN HANDLING CATTLE 

AND SHEEP. With Illustrations and Map. Demy Svo, IDS. 6d. 



24 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



SHIRR EFF (EMILY} 

A SHORT SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF FRIEDRICH 

FROBEL; a New Edition, including Frobel's Letters from Dresden and Leipzig 
to his Wife, now first Translated into English. Crown 8vo, as. 

HOME EDUCATION IN RELATION TO THE 

KINDERGARTEN, Two Lectures. Crown 8vo, is. 6d. 
SHORE (ARABELLA} 

DANTE FOR BEGINNERS : a Sketch of the " Divina 

Commedia." f With Translations, Biographical and Critical Notices, and Illus- 
trations. With Portrait. Crown 8vo, 6s. 

SIMMONDS (T. ,) 

ANIMAL PRODUCTS : their Preparation, Commercial 

Uses, and Value. With numerous Illustrations. Large crown 8vo, 73. 6d. 

SINGER'S STORY, A. Related by the Author of "Flitters, 

Tatters, and the Counsellor." Crown 8vo, sewed, is. 



SINNETT (A. 

ESOTERIC BUDDHISM. Annotated and enlarged by 

the Author. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo, 6s. 

KARMA. A Novel. New Edition. Crown 8vo, 35. 6d. 

SINNETT (MRS.} 

THE PURPOSE OF THEOSOPHY. Crown 8vo, 33. 

SMART (HA WLEY} 

A FALSE START. Crown 8vo, 35. 6d. 
SADDLE AND SABRE. Crown 8vo, 3 s. 6d. 

SMITH (MAJOR R. MURDOCH}, R.E. 

PERSIAN ART. With Map and Woodcuts, Second Edition. 

Large crown 8vo, as. 
STORES (MARGARET} 

EARLY CHRISTIAN ART IN IRELAND. With 106 

Woodcuts, Demy 8vo, 73. 6d, 
STORY '(W. W,) 

ROBA DI ROMA. Seventh Edition, with Additions and 

Portrait. Crown 8vo, cloth, xos. 6d. 

CASTLE ST. ANGELO. With Illustrations. Crown 

8vo, IDS. 6d 
SUTCL1PFE (JOHN} 

THE SCULPTOR AND ART STUDENT'S GUIDE 

to the Proportions of the Human Form* with Measurements in fet and inches of 
Full-Grown Figures of Both Sexes ana of Various Ages. By Dr. G. SCKADOW, 
Member of the Academies, Stockholm, Dresden, Rome. &c. &c. Translated by 
J. J. WRIGHT. Plates reproduced by J. SUTCLIFFB* Oolong folio, 313. 6d. 



CHAPMAN & HALL, LIMITED. 25 



TAINE (H. A.) 

NOTES ON ENGLAND. Translated, with Introduction, 

by W. FRASER RAE. Eighth Edition. With Portrait. Crown 8vo, 55. 
TANNER (PROFESSOR), F.C.S. 

HOLT CASTLE; or, Threefold Interest in Land. Crown 

8vo, 45. fid. 

JACK'S EDUCATION; OR, HOW HE LEARNT 

FARMING. Second Edition. Crown Svo, 35. fid. 

TEMPLE (SIR RICHARD), BART. % M.P., G.CS.L 

COSMOPOLITAN ESSAYS. With Maps. Demy Svo, i6s. 

TOP1NARD (DR. PAUL) 

ANTHROPOLOGY. With a Preface by Professor PAUL 

BROCA, With numerous Illustrations. Large crown Svo, 75. 6d. 

TQVEY (LIEUT.-COL., K.E.} 

MARTIAL LAW AND CUSTOM OF WAR; or, Military 

Law and Jurisdiction in Troublous Times. Crown Svo, 6s. 
TRAILL (H. ZX) 

THE NEW LUCIAN. Being a Series of Dialogues of the 

Dead. Demy 8vo, ias. 
TROLLOPE (ANTHONY] 

THE CHRONICLES OF BARSETSHIRE. A Uniform 

Edition, in 8 vols., large crown Svo, handsomely printed, each vol. containing 
Frontispiece. 6s. each. 



THE WARDEN and BAR- 
CHESTER TOWERS, a vols. 
DR. THORNE. 
FRAMLEY PARSONAGE. 



THE SMALL HOUSE AT 
ALLINGTON. a vols. 

LAST CHRONICLE OF 
BARSET. a vols. 



LIFE OF CICERO. 2 vols. Svo, i 4 s. 

VERON (EUGENE) 

AESTHETICS. Translated by W. H. ARMSTRONG. Large 

crown Svo, 75. 6d. 
WALE (REV. HENRY JOHN), M.A. 

MY GRANDFATHER'S POCKET BOOK, from 1701 to 

1796. Author of u Sword and Surplice.'* Demy Svo, ias. 

WALKER (MRS.) 

EASTERN LIFE AND SCENERY, with Excursions to 

A&ia Minor, Mitylene, Crete, and Roumanla. z vols, s with Frontispiece to each 
vol. Crown Svo, 2i, 



26 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



WARING (CHARLES} 

STATE PURCHASE OF RAILWAYS. Demy Svo, 53. 

WA TSON ( WILLIAM} 

LIFE IN THE CONFEDERATE ARMY: being the 

Observations and Experiences of an Alien in the South during the American Civil 
War, Crown 8vo, 6$. 

WHIST HANDBOOKS. By AQUARIUS 

THE HANDS AT WHIST. 321110, cloth gilt, is. 
EASY WHIST. 321110, cloth gilt, is. 
ADVANCED WHIST. 321110, cloth gilt, is. 

WHITE (WALTER) 

A MONTH* INT YORKSHIRE. With a Map. Fifth 

Edition. Post 8vo, 45. 

A LONDONER'S WALK TO THE LAND'S END, AND 

A TRIP TO THE SCILLY ISLES. With 4 Maps. Third Edition. Post 
8vo, 43. 

WILL-O'-THE-WISPS, THE, Translated from the German 

of Marie Petersen by CHARLOTTE J, HART. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, 
7S. 6cL 

WORKING MAN'S PHILOSOPHY, A, By "ONE OF THE 

CROWD." Crown 8yo, 33. 



. N.} 

ANALYSIS OF ORNAMENT: THE CHARACTER- 

ISTICS OF STYLES. An Introduction to the History of Ornamental Art. 
With many Illustrations. Ninth Edition. Royal 8vo, cloth, 8s. 

WRIGHTSON (PROP. JOHN), M.R.A.C., F.CS., &*<:.; Examiner in. 
Agriculture to the Science and Art Department ; Professor of Agriculture in 
the Normal Sckcol of Science and Royal School of Mines f President of the, 
College of Agriculture, Down ton, near Salisbury ; late Commissioner for the 
Royal Agricultural Society of England, &>., M?. 

PRINCIPLES OF AGRICULTURAL PRACTICE AS 

AN" INSTRUCTIONAL SUBJECT, With Geological Map. Crown 8vo. 

WORSAAB <y. y. A,} 

INDUSTRIAL ARTS OF DENMARK, FROM THE 

EARLIEST TIMES TO THE DANISH CONQUEST OF ENGLAND. 
With Maps and Woodcuts. Large crown 8vo, 38. o*d 

YEO (DR. J. BURNRY)~~* 

CLIMATE AND HEALTH RESORTS. New Edition. 

Crown 8 vo, jos. 6cL 
YOUNGS (C. &.) 

PARALLEL LIVES OF ANCIENT AND MODERN 

HEK.OES, New Edition, xarno, cloth, 4$, 6d. 



CHAPMAN &> HALL, LIMITED. 27 

SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM SCIENCE AND ART 
HANDBOOKS. 

Handsomely printed in large crown Svo, 

Published for the Committee of the Council on, Edttcation* 
EARLY CHRISTIAN ART IN IRELAND. By MARGARET 

STOKES, With 106 Woodcuts, Crown Svo, 45. 

A Library Edition, demy Svo, 75, fid. 

FOOD GRAINS OF INDIA. By PROF. A, H. CHURCH, M.A., 

F.C.S., F.I.C. With Numerous Woodcuts. Small 4to. o~s. 

THE ART OF THE SARACENS IN EGYPT. By STANLEY 

LANE POOLE, B.A., M.A.R.S. With 108 Woodcuts. Crown Svo, 45. 

ENGLISH PORCELAIN : A Handbook to the China made in 

England during the i8th Centurv, as illustrated "by Specimens chiefly in the 
National Collections. By PROF. A H. CHURCH, M.A. With numerous Woodcuts. 35. 




FRENCH POTTERY, By PAUL GASNATJLT and EDOUARD 

GAFNIEK. With Illustrations and Marks. 35. 

ENGLISH EARTHENWARE: A Handbook to the Wares 

made in England during the xyth and i8th Centuries, as illustrated by Specimens 
in the National Collection. By PROF. A. H. CHUKCH, M.A. With numerous 
Woodcuts. 35, 

INDUSTRIAL ARTS OF DENMARK, From the Earliest 

Times to the Danish Conquest of England By J. J. A. WOKSAAK, Hon. F,S.A., 
&c. &c. With Map and Woodcuts. 35. 6d. 

INDUSTRIAL ARTS OF SCANDINAVIA IN THE PAGAN 

TIME. By HANS HILDEBRAND, Royal Antiquary of Sweden, With numerous 
Woodcuts, as. fid. 

PRECIOUS STONES: Considered in their Scientific and 

Artistic relations, with a Catalogue of the Townsend Collection of Gems in the 
South Kensington Museum. By PKOF. A. H. CHLTKCH, M.A. With a Coloured 
Plate and Woodcuts, as. 6d. 

INDUSTRIAL ARTS OF INDIA. By Sir GEORGE C. M. 

BIRDWOOD, C.S.I., &c. With Map and Woodcuts. Demy Svo, 145. 

HANDBOOK TO THE DYCE AND FORSTKR COLLEC- 

TIONS in the South Kensington Museum* With Portraits and Facsimiles, as. 6d. 

INDUSTRIAL ARTS IN SPAIN. By JUAN F. RIANO, 

With numerous Woodcuts. 48. 

GLASS. By ALEXANDER NESBITT. With numerous Woodcuts. 

ss. rid. 

GOLD AND SILVER SMITHS' WORK, By JOHN HUNGER- 

row PQLLKN, ]^t.A. With numerous Woodcuts, as. 6d. 

TAPESTRY. By ALFRED DECHAMPEAUX. With Woodcuts. 2s. 6d. 
BRONZES, By C. DRTOY E. FORXNXJM, F.S.A. With numerous 

Woodcuts, as. fid. 



28 BOOKS PUBLISHED BY 



SOUTH KENSINGTON MUSEUM SCIENCE & ART HANDBOOKS-C<?tf*f. 

PLAIN WORDS ABOUT WATER. By A. H. CHURCH, M.A., 

Oxon. With Illustrations. Sewed, 6d. 

ANIMAL PRODUCTS : their Preparation, Commercial Uses, 

and Value. By T. L. SIMMONDS. With Illustrations, ys. 6d. 

FOOD : Some Account of its Sources, Constituents, and Uses. 

By PROFESSOR A. H. CHURCH, M.A. Oxon. Sixth Thousand. 35. 

ECONOMIC ENTOMOLOGY, By ANDREW MURRAY, F.L.S. 

APTERA. With Illustrations. 73. fid. 

JAPANESE POTTERY. Being a Native Report. With an 

Introduction and Catalogue by A. W. FRANKS, M.A., F.R.S., F.S.A. With 

Illustrations and Marks, as. 6d. 

HANDBOOK TO THE SPECIAL LOAN COLLECTION 

of Scientific Apparatus, 33, 

INDUSTRIAL ARTS : Historical Sketches. With Numerous 

Illustrations. 35. 

TEXTILE FABRICS. By the Very Rev. DANIEL ROCK, D.D. 

With numerous Woodcuts, as. 6d. 

JONES COLLECTION IN THE SOUTH KENSINGTON 

MUSEUM, With Portrait and Woodcuts, as. 6d., 

COLLEGE AND CORPORATION PLATE. A Handbook 

to the Reproductions of Silver Plate in tht South Kensigton Museum from 
Celebrated English Collections. By WILPRHD JOSEPH CRIPPS, M.A,, F.S.A. 
With Illustrations, ss. 6cL 

IVORIES: ANCIENT AND MEDIAEVAL. By .WILLIAM 

MASKKLU With numerous Woodcuts, as. 6d. 

ANCIENT AND MODERN FURNITURE AND WOOD- 

WORK, By JOHN HUNGERKORD POLLEN, M.A. With numerous Woodcuts, 
as. 6d. 

MAIOLICA. By C. DRURY E. FORTNUM, F.S.A. With 

numerous Woodcuts, as. 6d. 

THE CHEMISTRY OF FOODS. With Microscopic Illus- 

trations. By JAMES BELL, Ph.D,, &e., Principal of the Somerset House Laboratory. 

Part i. Tea, Coffee, Cocoa, Sugar, &c. as. 6d. 

Part n. Milk, Butter, Cheese, Cereals, Prepared Starches, &c. 38. 

MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS. By CARL ENGEL. With nu- 

naerous Woodcuts, as. fid, 

MANUAL OF DESIGN, compiled from the Writings and 

Addresses of RICHARD RBXXJKA.VB, R.A. By GILBBRT R. REDGRAVE. With 
Woodcuts, as. <5d. 

PERSIAN ART. By MAJOR R, MURDOCK SMITH, R.E, With 

Map and Woodcuts. Second Edition, enlarged* as. 



CHAPMAN <V HALL, LIMITED. 29 



CARLYLE'S (THOMAS) WORKS. 



THE ASHBURTON EDITION. 

An entirely Wew Edition, handsomely printed, containing- all the Portraits 
and Illustrations, in Seventeen Volumes, demy 8vo, 8s. each. 

THE FRENCH REVOLUTION AND PAST AND PRESENT. 2 vols. 
SARTOR RESARTUS; HEROES AND HERO WORSHIP, i vol. 
LIFE OF JOHN STERLING LIFE OF SCHILLER, i vol. 

LATTER-DAY PAMPHLETS-EARLY KINGS OF NORWAY- 
ESSAY ON THE PORTRAIT OF JOHN KNOX. i vol. 

LETTERS AND SPEECHES OF OLIVER CROMWELL. 3 vols. 
HISTORY OF FREDERICK THE GREAT. 6 voK 
CRITICAL AND MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS. 3 vols. 



CHEAP AND UNIFORM EDITION. 

23 vols., Crown $vo, cloth) 7 js. 



THE FRENCH REVOLUTION ; 
A History, a vols., 123. 

OLIVER CROMWELL'S LET- 
TERS AND SPEECHES, with Eluci- 



dations, &c. 3 vols.,x8s. TRANSLATIONS FROM THE 



LIVES OF SCHILLER AND 

JOHN STERLING, i vol., 6s. 

CRITICAL AND MISCELLA- 



SARTOR RESARTUS AND 
LECTURES ON HEROES, i vol., 6s. 



LATTER-DAY PAMPHLETS., 

i vol., 6s. 

CHARTISM AND PAST AND 
PRESENT, i vol., 6s. 



GERMAN OF MUS.EUS, TIECK, 
AND RICHTER. i vol., 6s, 

WILHELM MEISTER, by Goethe. 
A Translation. 2 vols., ias. 



NEOUS ESSAYS. 4 vols., ji 45. 

HISTORY OF FRIEDRICH THE 

SECOND, called Frederick the Great. 
7 vols., Q gs. 



I-IBRARY EDITION COMPLETE. 
Handsomely printed in 34 vols., demy 8vo, cloth, 18 8s. 



SARTOR RESARTUS. With a Portrait, 75. 6d. 

THE FRENCH REVOLUTION. A History. 3 vols., each 9 s. 

LIFE OF FREDERICK SCHILLER AND EXAMINATION 

OF HIS WORKS. With Supplement of 1872. Portrait and Plates, 95. 

CRITICAL AND MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS. With Portrait. 

6 vols., each 9$. 

ON HEROES, HERO WORSHIP, AND THE HEROIC 

IN HISTORY. 7 s. 6d. 

PAST AND PRESENT. 95. 



30 AfXM'.V rUIUJ^ltE!) A'K 



CARLYLE'S (THOMAS) WORKS. LIBRARY EDITION- Continued. 
OLIVER CROMWELL'S LETTERS AND SPEECHES. With 

Portraits. 5 vols., each 93. 

LATTER-DAY PAMPHLETS. 95. 

LIFE OF JOHN STERLING. With Portrait, 95. 

HISTORY OF FREDERICK THE SECOND. 10 vols., 

each gs. 

TRANSLATIONS FROM THE GERMAN. 3 vols., each 9 s. 

EARLY KINGS OF NORWAY; ESSAY ON THE POR- 
TRAITS OF JOHN KNOX; AND GENERAL INDEX. With Portrait 
Illustiations. Svo, cloth, 98. 

PEOPLE'S EDITION. 

Messrs. CHAPMAN & HALL are now issuing at a Cheap Rate in a popular 
form, a complete Edition of CARLYLE'S WORKS. The volumes are 
handsomely printed and boim 1 in cloth, and published at One Shilling each. 

SARTOR RESARTUS. With Portrait of Thomas Carlyle 

FRENCH REVOLUTION. A Ilistoiy. 3 vols. 

OLIVER CROMWELL'S LETTKRS AND SPEECHES. 5 vols. 

, With Portrait of Oliver Cromwell. 

ON HEROES AND HERO WORSHIP, AND THE HEROIC 

IN HISTORY. 
PAST AND PRESENT. 

CRITICAL AND MISCELLANEOUS ESSAYS. 7 vols. 
THE LIFE OF SCHILLER, AND EXAMINATION OF HIS, 

WORKS. ' 

To be followed by 
LIFE OF JOHN STERLING. 
LATTER-DAY PAMPHLETS. 

HISTORY OF FREDERICK THE GREAT. 10 vols. 
WILHELM MEISTER. 3 vols. 
TRANSLATIONS FROM MUS/KUS, TIECK, AND RICHTER. 

THE EARLY KINGS OF NORWAY; Essay on the Portraits of Knox ; 

and General Index. 

CHEAP ISSUE. 

THE FRENCH REVOLUTION. Complete in I vol. With Portrait. 
Crown Svo, as. 

SARTOR RESARTUS, HEROES AND HERO WORSHIP, PAST 

AND PRESENT, AND CHARTISM. Complete m i vol Crown Svo, as, 
OLIVER CROMWELL'S LETTERS AND SPEECHES. Crown Svo. 



^ 



SIXPENNY EDITION. 

4/0, s tweet. 
SARTOR RESARTUS, Eightieth Thousand. 

HEROES AND HERO WORSHIP. 

ESSAYS : BURNS, JOHNSON, SCOTT, THE DIAMOND NECKLACE. 
The abow m i voL , doth^ 2s. 6d. 



CHAPMAN & HALL, LIMITED. 31 

DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS. 

ORIGINAL EDITIONS. 

In demy 8vo. 

THE MYSTERY OF EDWIN DROOD. With Illustrations 

by S. L. Fildes, and a Portrait engraved by Baker. Cloth, 75. 6d. 

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND. With Forty Illustrations by Marcus 

Stone. Cloth, i is, 

THE PICKWICK PAPERS. With Forty-three Illustrations 

by Seymour and Phiz. Cloth, x is. 

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz. 

Cloth, 1 is. 

SKETCHES BY " BOZ/ ; With Forty Illustrations by George 

Cruikshank. Cloth, 1 is. 

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz. 

Cloth, i is. 

DOMBEY AND SON. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz. 

Cloth, i is. 

DAVID COPPERFIELD. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz, 

Cloth, x is. 

BLEAK HOUSE. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz. Cloth, 
x *s. 

LITTLE DORRIT. With Forty Illustrations by Phiz. Cloth, 

ji is. 

THE OLD CURIOSITY SHOP. With Seventy-five Illus- 

trations by George Catterjnole and H. K. Browne. A New Edition. Uniform with 
the other volumes, t is. 

BARNABY RUDGE : a Tale of the Riots of 'Eighty. With 

Seventy- eight Illustrations by George Cattermole and H. K. Browne. Uniform "with 
the other volumes, i is. 

CHRISTMAS BOOKS : Containing The Christmas Carol ; 

The Cricket on the Hearth ; The Chimes ; The Battle of Life ; The Haunted House. 
With all the original Illustrations. Cloth, las. 

OLIVER TWIST and TALE OF TWO CITIES. In one 

volume. Cloth, t is. 

OLIVER TWIST. Separately. With Twenty-four Illustrations 

by George Cruikshank. Cloth, us. 

A TALE OF TWO CITIES. Separately. With Sixteen Illus- 

trations by Phiz. Cloth, gs. 
"%* The remainder of Dickens' s Works ivirt not originally printed in demy $vo. 



BOOKS PUBLISHED B Y 



DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS. Continued. 



LIBRARY KDITION. 



In post Svo. W*tJi the Original Illustrations, 30 vols., cloth^ 12. 

s. rf. 

PICKWICK PAPERS ............... 43 Illustrns., 2 vols. 16 o 

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY ............ 39 2 vols. 16 o 

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT ............ 40 2 vols. 16 o 

OLD CURIOSITY SHOP &REPRINTED PIECES 36 2 vols. 16 o 

BARNABY RUDGE and HARD TIMES ...... 36 2 vols. 16 o 

BLEAK HOUSE .................. 40 2 v ^s. 16 o 

LITTLE DORRIT ............... 40 2 vols. 16 o 

DOMBEY AND SON ............... 38 n 2 vols - * 6 o 

DAVID COPPERFIELD ............ 38 2 vols. 16 o 

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND ............ 40 2 vols. 16 o 

SKETCHES BY "BOZ" ............ 39 ,, i vol. 8 o 

OLIVER TWIST ........... . ... 24 * v ol. 8 o 

CHRISTMAS BOOKS ............... 17 i vol. 8 o 

A TALE OF TWO CITIES ............ 16 , I vol. 8 o 

GREAT EXPECTATIONS .......... .. 8 I vol. 8 o 

PICTURES FRQM ITALY & AMERICAN NOTES 8 i vol 8 o 

UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER ......... 8 i vol 8 o 

CHILD'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND ...... 8 i vol 8 o 

EDWIN DROOD and MISCELLANIES ...... 12 I vol. 8 o 

CHRISTMAS STORIES from " Household Words/' &c. 14 ,, i vol 8 o 

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. By JOHN PORSTER, With Illustrations. 
Uniform with this Edition. ios 6d, 



A NEW EDITION OP ABOVE, WITH THE ORIGINAL ILLUSTRA- 
TIONS, IN CROWN 8vo, 30 VOLS. IN SETS ONLY. 



CHAPMAN & HALL, LIMITED. 



DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS. Continued. 

THE " CHARLES DICKENS" EDITION. 
In Crown &vo. In 2: vo.'s., cloth, with Illustrations^ 3 /dr. 

f. d. 

PICKWICK PAPERS 8 Illustrations ... 4 o 

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT 8 ,, ...4 o 

DOMBEY AND SON 8 ... 4 o 

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY 8 ,, ... 4 o 

DAVID COPPERFIELD 8 ,, ... 4 o 

BLEAK HOUSE 8 . ... 4 o 

LITTLE DORRIT 8 4 o 

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND 8 ... 4 o 

BARNABY RUDGE 8 ...3 6 

OLD CURIOSITY SHOP -.. 8 ... 3 6 

A CHILD'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND 4 ... 3 6 

EDWIN DROOD and OTHER STORIES 8 ... 3 6 

CHRISTMAS STORIES, from "Household Words"..- 8 ...3 6 

SKETCHES BY "BOZ" 8 3 6 

AMERICAN NOTES and REPRINTED PIECES ... 8 >t ...3 6 

CHRISTMAS BOOKS 8 ... 3 6 

OLIVER TWIST 8 , ... 3 6 

GREAT EXPECTATIONS... ,., 8 ... 3 6 

TALE OF TWO CITIES 8 .., 3 o 

HARP TIMES and PICTURES F&OM ITALY ... 8 ri ... 3 o 

UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER ... 4 ... 3 Q 

THE LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. Numerous Illustrations, 2 vols. 7 o 

THE LETTERS OF CHARLES DICKENS ,.2vols. 7 o 



34 J300KS PUBLISHED BY 



DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS. Continued. 

THE ILLUSTRATED LIBRARY EDITION. 
(WITH LIFE.) 

Complete in 32 Volumes, Demy Svo, IQS. each ; or $et t 16, 

This Edition is printed on a finer paper and in a larger type than has been 
employed in any previous edition. The type has been cast especially for it, and 
the page is of a size to admit of the introduction of all the original illustrations. 

No such attractive issue has been made of the writings of Mr. Dickens, which, 
various as have been the forms of publication adapted to the demands of an ever 
widely-increasing" popularity, have never yet been worthily presented in a really 
handsome library form. 

The collection comprises all the minor writings it was Mr. Dickens's wish to 
preserve. 

SKETCHES BY " BOZ." With 40 Illustrations by George Cruikshank. 
PICKWICK PAPERS. 2 vols. With 42 Illustrations by Phiz. 
OLIVER TWIST. With 24 Illustrations by Cruikshank. 
NICHOLAS NICKLEBY. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz. 
OLD CURIOSITY SHOP and REPRINTED PIECES. 2 vols. With Illus- 
trations by Cattermole, &c. 
BARNABY RUDGE and HARD TIMES. 2 vols. With Illustrations by 

Cattermole, &c. 

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz. 
AMERICAN NOTES and PICTURES FROM ITALY. I vol. With 

8 Illustrations. 

DOMBEY AND SON. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz. 
DAVID COPPERFIELD. s vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz. 
BLEAK HOUSE. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz. 
LITTLE DORRIT. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Phiz. 
A TALE- OF TWO CITIES. With 16 Illustrations by Phiz. 
THE UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER. With 8 Illustrations by Marcus Stone. 
GREAT EXPECTATIONS. With 8 Illustrations by Marcus Stone. 
OUR MUTUAL FRIEND. 2 vols. With 40 Illustrations by Marcus Stone. 
CHRISTMAS BOOKS. With 17 Illustrations by Sir Edwin Landseer, R.A., 

Maclise, R.A, r &c. Sec, 

HISTORY OF ENGLAND. With 8 Illustrations by Marcus Stone. 
CHRISTMAS STORIES. (From "Household Words" and "All the Year 

Round.") With 14 Illustrations. 
EDWIN DROOD AND OTHER STORIES With 12 Illustrations by 

S> L. Ffldes. 
LIFE OF CHARLES DICKENS. By John Fortter. With Portraits. 2 vols. 

(not separate,) 



CHAPMAN 6* HALL, LIMITED. 



DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS. Continued. 

THE POPULAR LIBRARY EDITION 

OF THE WORKS OF 

CHARLES DICKENS, 

In 30 Vols. , large crown 82/0, price 6 ; separate Pols, 4?, pach* 

An Edition printed on good paper, each volume containing 16 full-page 
Illustrations, selected from the Household Edition, on Plate Paper. 

SKETCHES BY "BOZ." 

PICKWICK. 2 vols. 

OLIVER TWIST. 

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY. 2 vols. 

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT. 2 vols. 

DOMBEY AND SON. 2 vols, 

DAVID COPPERFIELD. 2 vols. 

CHRISTMAS BOOKS. 

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND. 2 vols. 

CHRISTMAS STORIES. 

BLEAK HOUSE. 2 vols. 

LITTLE DORRIT. 2 vols. 

OLD CURIOSITY SHOP AND REPRINTED PIECES. 2 vols. 

BARNABY RUDGE. 2 vols. 

UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER. 

GREAT EXPECTATIONS. 

TALE OF TWO CITIES. 

CHILD'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND. 

EDWIN DROOD A.ND MISCELLANIES. 

PICTURES FROM ITALY AND AMERICAN NOTES. 



,36 QOJ?S PUBLISHED BY 



DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS. Continued. 
HOUSEHOLD EDITION. 

In 22 Volumes. Crown 4/0, cloth, ^4 8s. 6d. 

MARTIN CHU2ZLEWIT, with 59 Illustrations, cloth, 53. 

DAVID COPPERFIELD, with 60 Illustrations and a Portrait, cloth, 55. 

BLEAK HOUSE, with 61 Illustrations, cloth, 55. 

LITTLE DORRIT, with 58 Illustrations, cloth, 55. 

PICKWICK PAPERS, with 56 Illustrations, cloth, 53. 

OUR MUTUAL FRIEND, with 58 Illustrations, cloth, 53. 

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY, with 59 Illustrations, cloth, 53. 

DOMBEY AND SON, with 61 Illustrations, cloth, 53. 

EDWIN DROOD ; REPRINTED PIECES ; and other Stories, with 30 Illustra- 
tions, cloth, 53. 

THE LIFE OF DICKENS. BY JOHN FOUSTKR. With 40 Illustrations. Cloth, 55. 

BARNABY RUDGE, with 46 Illustrations, cloth, 45, 

OLD CURIOSITY SHOP, with 32 Illustrations, cloth, 43, 

CHRISTMAS STORIES, with 23 Illustrations, cloth, 45. 

OLIVER TWIST, with 28 Illustrations, cloth, 38, 

GREAT EXPECTATIONS, with 26 Illustrations, cloth, 38. 

SKETCHES BY "BOZ," with 36 Illustrations, cloth, 33. 

UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER, with 26 Illustrations, cloth* 3& 

CHRISTMAS BOOKS, with 28 Illustrations, cloth, 3*, 

THE HISTORY OF ENGLAND, with 15 Illustrations, cloth, 38. 

AMERICAN NOTES and PICTURES FROM ITALY, with 18 Illustrations, 
cloth, 35. 

A TALE OF TWO CITIES, with 25 Illustrations, cloth, 38, 
HARD TIMES, with 20 Illustrations, cloth, 25. 6d. 



CHAPMAN &i HALL, LIMITED, 37 



DICKENS'S (CHARLES) 



THE CABINET EDITION, 

Noiv Publishing. 

To be completed in 30 vols. small fcap. 8vo, Marble Paper Sides, Cloth 
Backs, with uncut edges, price Eighteenpence each. 

A Complete Work will be Published every Month, and each Volume will 
contain Eight Illustrations reproduced from the Originals. 

CHRISTMAS BOOKS. 

MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT, Two Vols. 

DAVID COPPERFIELD, Two Vols. 

OLIVER TWIST. 

GREAT EXPECTATIONS. 

NICHOLAS NICKLEBY, Two Vols. 

SKETCHES BY "BOZ." 

CHRISTMAS STORIES. 

THE PICKWICK PAPERS, Two Vols. 

BARNABY RUDGE, Two Vols. 

BLEAK HOUSE, Two Vols. 

AMERICAN NOTES AND PICTURES FROM ITALY, 

EDWIN DROOD ; AND OTHER STORIES. 

THE OLD CURIOSITY SHOP, Two Vols. 

A CHILD'S HISTORY OF ENGLAND, 

DOMBEY AND SON, Two Vok. 

A TALE OF TWO CITIES. 

LITTLE DORJUT, Two Vols. 

To fa followed &y 

UNCOMMERCIAL TRAVELLER, 
MUTUAL FRIEND, Two Vols. 
HARD TIMES. 
REPRINTED PIECES. 



33 J500KS PUBLISHED BY 



DICKENS'S (CHARLES) WORKS. Continued. 
MR. DICKENS'S READINGS. 

Fcap. &vo, sewed. 

CHRISTMAS CAROL IN PROSE, is. 
CRICKET ON THE HEARTH, is. 
CHIMES: A GOBLIN STORY, is. 
STORY OF LITTLE DOMBEY. is. 
POOR TRAVELLER, BOOTS AT THE HOLLY-TREE 
INN, and MRS. GAMP. is. 



A CHRISTMAS CAROL, with the Original Coloured Plates. 
Being a reprint of the Original Edition. With red border lines. Small 8vo, 
red cloth, gilt edges, 55. 



CHARLES DICKENS'S CHRISTMAS BOOKS. 

REPRINTED FROM THE ORIGINAL PLATES. 

Illustrated by JOHN LEECH, D. MACLTSE, R.A., R. DOYLE, 

C. STANFIELD, R.A., &c. 
Fcap* cloth, is. each. Complete in a case, $s. 

A CHRISTMAS CAROL IN PROSE. 

THE CHIMES : A Goblin Story. 

THE CRICKET ON THE HEARTH: A Fairy Tale of 

Home. 

THE BATTLE OF LIFE. A Love Story. 

THE HAUNTED MAN AND THE GHOST'S STORY. 



SIXPENNY REPRINTS. 

READINGS FROM THE WORKS OF 
CHARLES DICKENS. 

As selected and read by himself and now published for the first time. Illustrated. 

A CHRISTMAS CAROL, AND THE HAUNTED MAN. 

By CHARLES DICKENS. Illustrated. 
THE CHIMES: A GOBLIN STORY, AND THE CRICKET 

ON THE HEARTH. Illustrated, 

THE BATTLE OF LIFE: A LOVE STORY, HUNTEI> 

DOWN, AND A HOLIDAY ROMANCE. Illustrated. 

The last Three Volumes as Christmas Works, 

In One Volume, red cloth, s. 6d. 



CHAPMAN & HALL, LIMITED. 39 

SCIENCE AND ART, 

% JTmmtal for 2fe&c$er& anB Stuttente* 

ISSUED BY MESSRS. CHAPMAN & HALL, LIMITED, 
Agents for the Science and Art Department of the Committee of 

Council on Education. 
MONTHLY, PRICE THREEPENCE. 




PRIZE COMPETITION. 

With each issue of the Journal, papers or drawings are offered for Prize Competition, 
extending over the range of subjects of the Science and Art Department and City and 
Guilds of London Institute. 

There are thousands of Science and Art Schools and Classes in the United Kingdom, 
but the teachers connected with thtse institutions, although engiged in the advancement 
of identical objects, are seldom known to each other except through personal friendship. 
One object of the new Journal is to enable those engaged^in this common work to com- 
municate upon subjects of importance, with a view to an interchange of ideas, and the 
establishment of unity of action in the various centres. 

TERMS OF SUBSCRIPTION. 

ONE YEAR'S SUBSCRIPTION 3s. Od. 

HALF Is, 6d. 

SINGLE COPY 3d, 

C/tfgncs and Post Office Orders to be made payable to 
CHAPMAN & HALL, Limited. 

Answers to the Questions (Elementary and Advanced) set at 
the Examinations of the Science and Art Department of 
May, 1887, are published as under, each subject being 
kept distinct, and issued in pamphlet form separately. 

1. ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY ByJ. H. E. Brock, M.D., B.S. 

(Lond.) 

2. BUILDING CONSTRUCTION II. Adams, M.I.C.E. 

3. THEORETICAL MECHANICS J, C. Fell, M I.M.E. 

4. INORGANIC CHEMISTRY (Theoretical) Rev. F. W. Harriett, M.A. 

5. Ditto ALTERNATIVE COURSE ... J. Howard, F.C.S. 

6. MAGNETISM AND ELECTRICITY ... \V. Hibbert, F.I.C., F.C.S. 

7. PHYSIOGRAPHY W. Rheam, B.Sc. 

S. PRACTICAL PLAN K&SOLIT> GEOMETRY H. Angel. 

9. ART- THIRD GRADE. PERSPECTIVE A. Fisher. 

10. PURE MATHEMATICS R. R. Steel, F.C.S. 

n. MACHINE CONSTRUCTION & DRAWING H. Adam% M.I.C.E. 

12, PRINCIPLES OF AGRICULTURE ... Dr. Webb, B.Sc. 

13, SOUND, LIGHT, AND HEAT C. A. Stevens. 

14. HYGIENE .,, J. J. Pillcy. 

15. INORGANIC CHEMISTRY (Practical)... J. "Howard, F.C.S. 

Tlxe price of each Pamphlet will be 2d, net, postage included, Special 
terms will be given if quantities are ordered. 



CHAPMAN & HALL, Limited, 11, Henriettx Street, Covent Garden, W.C. 



CHAPMAN & BALL, LIMITED. 



THE FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW. 

Edited by FRANK HARRIS, 

I HE FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW is published on the ist of 
every month, and a Volume is completed every Six Months. 



T 



The following are among 

GRANT ALLEN. 

SIR RUTHERFORD ALCOCK. 

MATHEW ARNOLD. 

AUTHOR OF*' GREATER BRITAIN." 

PROFESSOR BAIN. 

SIR SAMUEL BAKER. 

PROFESSOR BEESLY. 

PAUL BERT. 

BARON GKORGETON BUNSEN. 

DR. BRIDGES. 

HON. GEORGE C. BRODRICK. 

JAMES BRYCE, M.P. 

THOMAS HURT, M.P. 

SIR GEORGE CAMPBELL, M.P. 

THE EARL OF CARNARVON. 

EMILTO CASTELAR. 

RT HON. J. CHAMBERLAIN, M.P. 

PROFESSOR SIDNEY COLVIN. 

MONTAGUE COOKSON, Q.C. 

L. H. COURTNEY, M.P. 

G. H. DARWIN. 

SIR GEORGE W. DASENT. 

PROFESSOR A. V. DICEY. 

PROFESSOR DOWDEN. 

M. E. GRANT DUFF, M.P. 

T. H. S. ESCOTT. 

RIGHT HON. H. FAWCETT, M.P. 

ARCHDEACON FERRER. 

EDWARD A. FREEMAN. 

J. A. FROUDE. 

MRS. GARRET-ANDERSON. 

J. W. L. GLAISHER, F.R.S. 

SIR J. E, GORST, Q.C, M.P. 

EDMUND GOSSE. 

THOMAS HARE. 

F. HARRISON. 

LORD HOUGHTON. 

PROFESSOR HUXLEY. 

PROFESSOR R. C. JEBB. 

PROFESSOR JEVONS. 

ANDREW LANG. 

EMILE DE 



the Contributors : 

T. E. CLIFFE LESLIE. 

PROFESSOR LEONE LEVI. 

W. S. LILLY. 

MARQUIS OF LORNE 

SIR JOHN LUBBOCK, BART., M.P. 

THE EARL LYTTON. 

SIR H. S. MAINE. 

DR. MAUDSLEY. 

PROFESSOR MAX MULLER. 

GEORGE MEREDITH. 

G. OSBORNE MORGAN, Q.C., M.P. 

PROFESSOR HENRY MORLEY. 

RT. HON. JOHN MORLEY, M.P. 

WILLIAM MORRIS. 

PROFESSOR H. N, MOSELEY. 

F. W. H, MYERS. 

F. W. NEWMAN. 

PROFESSOR JOHN NlCHOL, 

W. G. PALGRAVE. 

WALTER H. PATER. 

RT. HON. LYON PLAYFA1R, M.P. 

PROFESSOR J, R. SEELKY. 

LORD SHERBROOKE. 

PROFESSOR SIDGWICK. 

HERBERT SPENCER. 

HON. E. L, STANLEY, 

SIR J. FITZJAMES STEPHEN, Q.C. 

LESLIE STEPHEN. 

J. HUTCHISON STIRLING. 

A. C. SWINBURNE, 

DR. VON SYBEL. 

J. A. SYMONDS. 

THE REV. EDWARD F. TALBOT 

(WARDEN OF KEBLB COM-BGE). 
SIR RICHARD TEMPL, BA*T, 
W. T. THORNTON. 
HON. LIONEL A* TOWUEKACHB.. 11 
H. D. TRAILt. 
PROFESSOR TYN'DALt, 
A. J. WILSON. 
THE EDITOR* 



THE FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW u 



at ar, 6eL 



7 



CHAPMAK 4: HALL, LIMITED, II, HENRIETTA STRBET, 
OOVENT GARDEN, , W*C 



pQKtaWi AND 1 




116466 



