



LIBRARY 
INOX tG 
TORONTO 



LIBRARY 

C; .LIEGE 

TORONTO - 



READERS ARE REQUESTED 

NOT TO MARK THE TEXT 

IN ANY WAY 

OR 

UMM* 

TURN DOWN PAGE-CORNERS 
OR^ 

WRITE ON BLANK END-SHEETS 



PROMPT RETURN APPRECIATED 




IRA D. SANKEY 



MY LIFE AND THE STORY 
OF THE GOSPEL HYMNS 

And of SACRED SONQS AND SOLOS 



By IRA D. SANKEY 



With an Introduction by 
THEODORE L. CUYLER 




HARPER & BROTHERS PUBLISHERS 

NEW YORK AND LONDON 



LIBRARY 

XNOX COLLEGE 

TORONTO 



Copyright, 1906, 1907, by 
Harper & Brothers 

Printed in the United States of America 
D-L 



/?*? 



INTRODUCTION 

The deep interest I have always taken in the sub 
ject of hymnology, and my warm personal affection 
for the author of this volume, are my warrant for be 
speaking for it a warm and hearty welcome. If ever a 
man was raised and endowed for a special work by 
our Divine Master, that man is Ira D. Sankey. His 
work has been of a twofold character. Before his day 
psalms and hymns and spiritual songs had always 
been an important part of the services of religious 
worship throughout Christendom. 

But he introduced a peculiar style of popular 
hymns which are calculated to awaken the careless, 
to melt the hardened, and to guide inquiring souls to 
the Lord Jesus Christ. In the next place, he sang 
these powerful revival-hymns himself, and became 
as effective a preacher of the gospel of salvation by 
song as his associate, Dwight L. Moody, was by ser 
mon. The multitudes who heard his rich and inspir 
ing voice in "The Ninety and Nine," "Jesus of 
Nazareth Passeth By" and "When the Mists Have 
Rolled Away" will testify to the prodigious power with 
which the Holy Spirit gave him utterance. While he 
has had many successors, he was the pioneer. 

This position which our beloved Brother Sankey 
holds before the whole Christian world fitted him to 
prepare such a volume as this valuable addition to 

iii 



LIBRARY 
KNOX COLLEGE 

TORONTO 



IV Introduction 

hymnology. It is the simple but sublime story of the 
quickening, converting and sanctifying power of sacred 
song. It adds a new and thrilling chapter to the tri 
umph of the Cross. It is a precious legacy by a faith 
ful veteran of Jesus Christ to his fellow-soldiers in all 
lands who are battling for the cause and crown of the 
glorious Captain of our salvation, and who "wait for 
his appearing." 

THEODORE L. CUYI,ER. 

BROOKLYN, NEW YORK, 
November,, 1905. 



PREFACE. 

Since Moses and the children of Israel, on the 
shore of the Red Sea, sang of their deliverance from 
the hand of Pharaoh, saying : " I will sing unto the 
Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously ; the horse and 
his rider hath he thrown into the sea," there has 
never been any great religious movement without the 
use of sacred song. Luther set all Germany ablaze 
with religious enthusiasm as he sang his magnificent 
hymn, "Ein Feste Burg," in which Melanchthon and 
multitudes of Christian soldiers joined. In later 
years the church of God was thrilled by the sermons 
of John Wesley and the songs of his brother Charles, 
whose hymns are more extensively used throughout 
Christendom than any others. After the Wesleys 
came Charles G. Finney, who, although he did not 
use the service of song as much as others, yet as a 
preacher was one of the mightiest men of his day. 
Later came E. P. Hammond, the children s evan 
gelist, who gave the praise service an especially im 
portant place in his work. 

Then, in 1873, God was pleased to send Mr. 
Moody and myself to Great Britain, where a work 



VI 



Preface 



of grace was begun that has continued until the pres 
ent day. About the same time Whittle and Bliss were 
doing a remarkable work in the United States, Bliss 
becoming one of the greatest song-evangelists of that 
age. For the last two or three years we have had the 
splendid campaign of Torrey and Alexander in Aus 
tralia, Great Britain and America. In their work the 
prominent feature has been the use of praise, their 
most popular hymn being "The Glory Song/ which 
perhaps is the most generally used Gospel song of 
the day. 

We all agree with what Dr. Pentecost has said re 
garding the power of sacred song: "I am profoundly 
sure that among the divinely ordained instrumental- 
ities for the conversion and sanctification of the soul, 
God has not given a greater, besides the preaching of 
the Gospel, than the singing of psalms and hymns and 
spiritual songs. I have known a hymn to do God s 
work in a soul when every other instrumentality has 
failed. I could not enumerate the times God has 
rescued and saved my soul from darkness, discourage 
ment and weariness by the singing of a hymn, gener 
ally by bringing one to my own heart and causing me 
to sing it to myself. It would be easy to fill many 
pages with interesting facts in connection with the use 
of hymns in the public worship of the house of God. 
I have seen vast audiences melted and swayed by a 



Preface vii 

simple hymn when they have been unmoved by a pow 
erful presentation of the Gospel from the pulpit." 

For many years past I have been collecting and 
writing up the history of hymns, and incidents con 
nected with their composition and their use by Mr. 
Moody and myself, as well as by others ; but in 1901, 
when the manuscript of these stories was almost com 
pleted, it was unfortunately destroyed in the fire that 
devastated the great Sanitarium at Battle Creek, 
Michigan, where I was at that time a guest of my 
friend Dr. J. H. Kellogg. In view of the regret which 
was expressed by my friends over this loss, and the 
interest taken by the people who sing our hymns, I 
decided to rewrite the story from memory, as far as I 
was able. 

I am indebted to the Rev. John Julian, the Rev. 
S. W. Duffield and the Rev. E. S. Lorenz, from whose 
works I have collected some dates and incidents ; also 
to my faithful secretary, Mr. Charles G. Rosewall, for 
aid in compiling and writing this book. In the prep 
aration of the old original manuscript I was espe 
cially indebted to my friend, Mr. Oliver H. Shiras, 
for his able assistance. 

IRA D. SANKEY. 

BROOKLYN, NSW YORK, 
January, 1906. 



SANKEY S STORY 
OF HIS OWN LIFE 



SANKEY S STORY OF HIS 
OWN LIFE. 

I was born in the village of Edinburg, on the 
Mahoning River in Western Pennsylvania, August 
28, 1840. 

The first hymn I remember having heard was 
from the lips of my beloved mother, when, as a child, 
she sang me to sleep with the strains of that sweet 
old hymn: 

"Hush, my dear, lie still and slumber, 
Holy angels guard thy bed." 

As a boy, it was one of my chief joys to meet 
with other members of our family around the great 
log fire in the old homestead, and spend the long 
winter evenings singing with them the good old 
hymns and tunes of the church, which was the only 
music we had in those days. When at home, my 
father would frequently join us in these evenings of 
sacred song, singing a splendid bass, while other 
members of the family carried the other parts. In 
this way I learned to read music, and when I was 
about eight years old I could sing correctly such tunes 
as St. Martin s, Belmont, Coronation, etc. 

The church to which I belonged was situated 

13 



1 6 Sankey s Story 

ducted by Mr. Bradbury. On my return home, my 
father said to mother : " I am afraid that boy will 
never amount to anything ; all he does is to run about 
the country with a hymn-book under his arm." 
Mother replied that she would rather see me with a 
hymn-book under my arm than with a whisky bottle 
in my pocket. 

In the spring of 1860, on the call of President 
Lincoln for men to sustain the Government, I was 
among the first in Newcastle to have my name en 
rolled as a soldier. My company was sent to Mary 
land. Religious services were held in the camp, and 
I often led the singing. I soon found several other 
young men who could render the same service. In 
a short time the people around us also learned that 
there were some singers in the Union camp, and we 
were frequently invited out by families who had heard 
of the singing of the "boys in blue." 

I remember with what astonishment the Southern 
people heard some of our soldier boys play the piano 
in their beautiful homes. The singing of some of the 
old-time "home songs" seemed to dispel all feeling 
of enmity. We were always treated with the utmost 
hospitality and kindness, and many friendships were 
formed that lasted until long after the war was ended. 
I organized a male choir in the company to which I 
belonged, and we would frequently be called upon to 



Of His Own Life 17 

assist the chaplain in conducting the religious services 
of the camp. 

At the expiration of my term as a soldier I did 
not re-enter the army, but returned to Newcastle to 
assist my father, who had been appointed by Abraham 
Lincoln as a collector of internal revenue. 

In 1863, on the Qth of September, I married a 
member of my choir Miss Fanny V. Edwards, a 
daughter of the Hon. John Edwards. She has been a 
blessing and a helpmate to me throughout my life and 
in all my work. 

My services as a singer were utilized in Western 
Pennsylvania and Eastern Ohio for Sunday-school 
conventions and political gatherings. In 1867, when 
I was twenty-seven years old, a branch of the Young 
Men s Christian Association was organized at New 
castle, of which I Was at that time elected secretary 
and later president. The first meetings were held 
in a small hired room. From that modest begin 
ning, by the help of God, I was later enabled to give 
to the city a Young Men s Christian Association build 
ing, including gymnasium, library and bathrooms, in 
all costing more than $40,000, by means of money 
realized from the sale of "Gospel Hymns." Not far 
from this building, on Jefferson street, I bought a 
beautiful lot for my old church, on which to erect a 
new structure, and later I assisted Bishop Vincent to 



1 8 Sankey* s Story 

raise the necessary funds, so that the new church was 
dedicated without any debt. My father and mother 
were members of this church until they passed away. 

In 1870, with two or three others, I was ap 
pointed a delegate to the International Convention of 
the Association, to be held at Indianapolis that year. 

For several years I had read in the religious 
press about Mr. Moody, and I was therefore pleased 
when I learned that he would be at the convention, 
being a delegate from the Chicago Association. For 
a couple of days I was disappointed in neither seeing 
nor hearing him. At several of the annual conven 
tions prior to this occasion, it had been the custom to 
select Moody as chairman, but now it was decided 
that some one else should occupy the chair, and 
Moody therefore took a seat among the other dele 
gates on the floor. However, late on a Saturday 
afternoon, it was announced that Moody of Chicago 
would lead a six o clock morning prayer-meeting in 
the Baptist Church. I was rather late, and therefore 
sat down near the door with a Presbyterian minister, 
the Rev. Robert McMillan, a delegate from my own 
county, who said to me, "Mr. Sankey, the singing 
here has been abominable ; I wish you would start up 
something when that man stops praying, if he ever 
does." I promised to do so, and when opportunity 
offered I started the familiar hymn, "There is a 



Of His Own JLife 19 

fountain filled with blood." The congregation joined 
heartily and a brighter aspect seemed to be given to 
the meeting. 

At the conclusion of the meeting Mr. McMillan 
said to me : "Let me introduce you to Mr. Moody." 
We joined the little procession of persons who were 
going up to shake hands with him, and thus I met for 
the first time the man with whom, in the providence 
of God, I was to be associated for the remainder of 
his life, or nearly thirty years. 

Moody s first words to me, after my introduction, 
were, "Where are you from? Are you married? 
What is your business?" Upon telling him that I 
lived in Pennsylvania, was married, had two children, 
and was in the government employ, he said abruptly, 
"You will have to give that up." 

I stood amazed, at a loss to understand why the 
man told me that I would have to give up what I con 
sidered a good position. "What for?" I exclaimed. 

"To come to Chicago and help me in my work," 
was the answer. 

When I told him that I could not leave my busi 
ness, he retorted, "You must; I have been looking 
for you for the last eight years." 

I answered that I would think the matter over; 
but as yet I had no thought of giving up my position. 
He told me about his religious work in Chicago, and 



20 Sankey s Story 

closed by saying that the greatest trouble in connec 
tion with his meetings was the matter of the singing. 
He said he could not sing himself, and therefore had 
to depend upon all kinds of people to lead his service 
of song, and that sometimes when he had talked to 
a crowd of people, and was about to "pull the net," 
some one would strike up a long meter hymn to a 
short meter tune, and thereby upset the whole meet 
ing. Mr. Moody then asked me if I would go with 
him and pray over the matter, and to this I consented 
out of politeness. After the prayer we parted, and 
I returned to my room, much impressed by Mr. 
Moody s prayer, but still undecided. 

The next day I received a card from Mr. Moody 
asking if I would meet him on a certain street corner 
that evening at six o clock. At that hour I was at 
the place named, with a few of my friends. In a few 
minutes Moody came along. 

Without stopping to speak, he passed on into a 
store near by, and asked permission to use a large 
store-box. The permission was granted; he rolled 
the box into the street, and, calling me aside, asked 
me to get up on the box and sing something. 

"Am I a soldier of the cross?" soon gathered 
a considerable crowd. After the song, Mr. Moody 
climbed up on the box and began to talk. The work- 
ingmen were just going home from the mills and the 



Of His Own Life 21 

factories, and in a short time a very large crowd had 
gathered. The people stood spellbound as the words 
fell from Moody s lips with wonderful force and 
rapidity. When he had spoken for some twenty-five 
minutes he announced that the meeting would be 
continued at the Opera House, and invited the people 
to accompany us there. He asked me to lead the 
way and with my friends sing some familiar hymn. 
This we did, singing as we marched down the street, 
"Shall we gather at the river." The men with the 
dinner pails followed closely on our heels instead of 
going home, so completely were they carried away by 
the sermon from the store-box. 

The Opera House was packed to the doors, and 
Moody first saw that all the workingmen were seated 
before he ascended to the platform to speak. His 
second address was as captivating as the one delivered 
on the street corner, and it was not until the delegates 
had arrived for the evening session of the convention 
that Mr. Moody closed the meeting, saying, "Now we 
must close, as the brethren of the convention wish to 
come in to discuss the question, How to reach the 
masses/ " Here was a man who could successfully 
reach the masses while others were talking about it. 

When Mr. Moody again brought up the question 
of our going into the work together, I was still unde 
cided. After a delay of over six months, and much 



22 Sankey s Story 

urging on Mr. Moody s part, I consented to spend a 
week with him. 

I arrived in Chicago one bright morning about 
daylight, and after a hasty breakfast proceeded at 
once to Mr. Moody s home, on the north side of the 
city. Immediately on entering the house, and with 
out any preliminaries or introductions to such mem 
bers of his family as were present, he asked me if I 
would not sit down at the organ and lead the singing 
for the family devotions. After the services were 
over and I had been introduced to his family, he 
said: "I am going to spend the day in visiting a lot 
of sick people, and I want you to go with me and 
sing for them." In the first home we visited we 
found a sick mother with a very large family, who 
were all very glad to see Mr. Moody, who at once 
took a seat by the bedside, saying: "I am going to 
read a few words from the Bible, but first I want my 
friend, Sankey, to sing a little hymn for you." I sang 
"Scatter Seeds of Kindness," which was quite popular 
in those days. This hymn, which was the first one I 
sang for Moody, on joining him in Chicago, in 1871, 
was the last one I sang for him, twenty-eight years 
later. This was at the last public meeting we held 
together, which was in Brooklyn, in the church of the 
Rev. Richard M. Storrs, D. D., in September, 1899. 

Besides visiting the sick, we spent the week in 



Of His Own Life 23 

holding a number of meetings in the Illinois Street 
Church, of which Moody was the founder and leader, 
noon prayer-meetings in the business part of the city, 
some evangelistic services in different churches, and 
concluded the week with a mass meeting in Farwell 
Hall. This meeting he opened with a congregational 
hymn, and while it was being sung, he said to me : "I 
am going to speak on The Prodigal Son/ and I want 
you to sing one of the songs I heard you sing at 
Indianapolis, Come home, O prodigal child/ " I 
replied: "But I have no organ with which to accom 
pany myself." Pointing his finger over his shoulder 
at the great three thousand dollar organ at the rear 
of the platform, he said : "Isn t that enough for you ?" 
I replied that it was too large, and too far away, and 
that if I used it, I would have to turn my back to the 
audience while singing, and that the song so rendered 
would not amount to anything, nor did I think that the 
German gentleman who had been playing the organ 
could accompany me in the way in which I should like 
to render the hymn. Moody then said : "Give him a 
book, and tell him how you want it played." This I 
did. Later on when Moody suddenly finished his ad 
dress, which was one of great power, he looked at 
me and said : "Mr. Sankey will now sing a solo for us, 
and let it be perfectly still while he sings." I arose 
quickly, and turned around to indicate to the organist 



24 Sankey s Story 

that I was ready, but to my horror, he had not yet 
returned from the quiet smoke which he was in the 
habit of enjoying in a back room while Moody was 
preaching. I stepped to the front of the platform and 
sang the song as best I could without any musical 
accompaniment. I have always remembered that 
song, as being the first sacred solo sung by me in one 
of Mr. Moody s large evangelistic meetings. 

As I was about to leave the city for my home the 
next morning, Mr. Moody said: "You see that I was 
right; your singing has been very helpful in all the 
meetings, and I am sure you ought to come to Chi 
cago at once, and give up your business." 

When arriving home, I consulted my pastor, 
rather hoping that he would advise me not to go, but 
when he, as well as all my friends, was of the opinion 
that it was my plain duty to go, I sent my resignation 
to Mr. Hugh McCullough, at that time Secretary of 
the Treasury, and the position which I had held was, 
at my request, given to a "bucktail" soldier who had 
escaped from Libby Prison. 

We thus commenced work together in Chicago in 
the early part of 1871, singing and praying with 
the sick, speaking and singing at the daily noon 
prayer-meetings, and other work, until Mr. Moody s 
church was destroyed in the Chicago fire. 

Sunday evening, October 8, 1871, we were hold- 



Of His Own Life 2 S 

ing a meeting in Farwell Hall, which was crowded 
to the doors. At the close of his address Mr. Moody 
asked me to sing a solo, and standing by the great 
organ at the rear of the platform I began the old, 
familiar hymn, " To-day the Saviour calls." By the 
time I had reached the third verse, 

"To-day the Saviour calls: 

For refuge fly; 
The storm of justice falls, 

And death is nigh," 

my voice was drowned by the loud noise of the fire 
engines rushing past the hall, and the tolling of bells, 
among which we could hear, ever and anon, the deep, 
sullen tones of the great city bell, in the steeple of 
the old court-house close at hand, ringing out a 
general alarm. 

Tremendous confusion was heard in the streets, 
and Mr. Moody decided to close the meeting at once, 
for the audience was becoming restless and alarmed. 
As the people dispersed, I went with Mr. Moody down 
the small back stairway leading into the old Arcade 
Court, and from our position there we watched the 
reflection of the fire, half a mile away, on the west 
side of the city, as it cast its ominous glare against the 
sky. After a few moments we separated, I to go over 
the river to where the fire was raging, and he to his 



2 6 Sankey s Story 

home on the North Side. We did not meet again for 
more than two months. 

On reaching the scene of the fire I found a whole 
block of small frame buildings burning fiercely, and 
I assisted in tearing down some board fences, to try 
to keep the fire from spreading to the adjoining 
territory. While thus engaged, the wind from the 
southwest had risen almost to a hurricane, and the 
flying embers from the falling buildings were quickly 
caught up and carried high upon the roofs of the 
houses adjoining, which were soon in flames. Thus 
the fire spread from building to building, and from 
block to block, until it seemed evident that the city 
was doomed. All this time the fire was moving towards 
Farwell Hall and the business center of the city. 

I now gave up the fight, and made haste to re- 
cross the river, hurrying back to my quarters my 
living room and office in the Farwell Hall Building. 
The fire followed so rapidly that several times I had 
to shake the falling embers from my coat. Arriving at 
the hall, I gathered up a number of belongings which 
I especially wished to save, and, placing them close 
to the door of my office, went out to find a convey 
ance so as to transfer them to a place of safety. Tt 
was now between one and two o clock in the morning, 
and not a carriage or truck could be found. 

While still looking for a conveyance I saw in the 



Of His Own Life 27 

distance, coming up Clark Street, a horse attached 
to an express wagon, running at full speed, without a 
driver, and ten or fifteen men running after it trying 
to capture the animal. I made a dash for the flying 
steed, but in turning from one street into another he 
slipped and fell, and in a moment a crowd of men 
were on top of him, each claiming the right of posses 
sion. Not caring to share in the contest, I returned 
to the hall, and commenced the task of carrying my 
effects toward Lake Michigan, half a mile distant. 

On the way to the lake I passed the present loca 
tion of the Palmer House, then being erected, the 
foundation of which had only been built to the level 
of the street. Believing that the rooms and under 
ground passages would afford a temporary place of 
security for some of my things, I walked on a plank 
down into the cellar, and hid two large valises in the 
darkest corner I could find. As yet, only a few people 
were moving out of their homes in this section of the 
city, and, as I noticed the seeming indifference of those 
who had come to the windows of their houses, I called 
out to them to escape for their lives, as the city was 
doomed to destruction. Some became alarmed; 
others only laughed. 

I returned to the hall for another load of my be 
longings, and after securing all I could carry, started 
in a more direct route for the lake, the streets being 



28 Sankey s Story 

lighted up by the glare of the oncoming conflagration. 
After getting about half-way to the shore, I stopped 
and deposited my burden on the front steps of a fine 
residence I was passing, thinking I would soon return 
and find them there. Again, for the third time, I went 
back to my rooms, and, gathering up a few more arti 
cles, started for the stone steps. I found, however, 
on reaching the house, that the things I had left there 
were covered several feet deep with other people s 
belongings, and I never saw them again. 

By this time the people were fully awake, rushing 
about the street, or anxiously looking out of their 
windows and from the tops of their houses in the 
direction of the fire. I could not help thinking of the 
Bible story of the destruction of the Cities of the Plain 
in the long ago, as many still made light of those who 
said the city would be destroyed. The air was filled 
with flying sparks of fire, resembling a spring snow 
storm, when the sky is filled with huge, falling flakes. 

As I pressed on, two men carrying a sick man on a 
stretcher overtook me. After passing a short distance 
ahead, they stopped and laid him by the side of the 
street, as the invalid, being quite sure the city would 
not be destroyed, did not wish to be carried farther. 
As soon as the carriers had been paid off and dis 
charged I employed them to assist me in carrying 
my effects to the lakeside ; but before we reached our 



Of His Own Life 29 

destination, in looking southward, they saw that the 
fire was sweeping through the southeastern section of 
the city, where they lived. Dropping my goods in the 
middle of the street, and without waiting for com 
pensation, they rushed away to secure their own 
homes. 

Again I secured help, and at last reached the lake, 
where I deposited my trunks and possessions close by 
the edge of the water, with the thought that if the 
flames came to the edge of the lake I would walk into 
the water and be saved from the heat. Remember 
ing my first attempt at carrying my goods away from 
Farwell Hall, I returned to the Palmer House block, 
to secure, if possible, my first cargo, very much fear 
ing that the things would not be there when I reached 
the place, as I thought some night wanderer might 
have noticed my leaving them and appropriated them 
to his own use. Much to my joy, I found them still 
there, and carried them away to the lake. 

By this time I was greatly exhausted, and almost 
famished for want of water, that along the shore not 
being fit to drink. I asked another refugee, who was 
in like case with myself, watching his little store of 
precious things, if he would look out for mine while 1 
returned into the city to get some water to drink. 
The man consenting, I went back to Wabash Avenue, 
one of the finest residential streets in the city, and, 



3 Sankey*s Story 

entering one of the large houses, asked if I might have 
some water. I was told to go into the rear of the 
building and get all I wished. I found a faucet, but, 
on attempting to draw water, air rushed out instead. 
This was my first intimation that the water works, 
two miles to the northward, had been destroyed. A 
few minutes later I heard a terrific explosion, which 
seemed to shake the city, and was told that the city 
gas works had blown up. 

Things began to look very desperate no v/ater, 
no light in the houses, and the city in flames ! I made 
my way back again to the lake and, wrapping myself 
in a great overcoat, lay down behind one of the large 
trunks which I had saved. Thus sheltered from the 
wind, I slept for an hour. On awaking I could hear 
the rush and roar of the fire coming nearer and 
nearer. The sun, slowly rising out of the waters of 
the lake, seemed like a red ball of fire. The wind had 
not fallen, and huge waves were breaking on the 
shore at my feet. 

I now felt that I must have water to drink, and, 
after wandering along the shore for some distance, 
found some small rowboats, and asked a man near by, 
who seemed to be their owner, if I might have one 
to go out into the lake for fresh water. "Yes," he 
said ; " if you can manage the boat you can have it, 
as we are not likely to have much more boating in this 



Of His Own Life 3* 

section for some time to come." So I took possession 
of one, and rowed down to where my goods were de 
posited. Rolling them on board, I made my way out 
into the lake, passing through the piling on which 
the railway was built, in front of the city. After get 
ting my boat through the piling, I rowed out far 
enough to find fresh water. Then, tying my boat to 
some timbers that were being used for the erection of 
a new breakwater, I climbed up on the pile of lumber 
and for several hours watched the destruction of the 
city. Every few minutes a loud explosion was heard. 
I afterwards learned that these were caused by the 
blowing up of buildings by order of General Sheri 
dan, who was in the city at the time so as to form 
a barrier against the fire and prevent its spreading to 
the southward. 

It was interesting to watch the tramps and thieves 
carrying away on their backs large bales of silk and 
satin goods which they had taken from the burning 
stores in the wholesale district. Most of them fol 
lowed the railway track southward, not knowing that 
at the place where the track reached the land a com 
pany of fire insurance agents were waiting with open 
arms to relieve them of their burdens. 

The day wore away, but the city was still burning, 
and, as the sun was sinking in the west, a song came 
into my mind which I had been singing a few days 



32 Sankey s Story 

before in Mr. Moody s large Sunday-school on the 
North Side, and I sang it through as I sat there, with 
the waves beating about me. The first verse was as 
follows : 

"Dark is the night, and cold the wind is blowing, 
Nearer and nearer comes the breakers roar; 

Where shall I go, or whither fly for refuge? 
Hide me, my Father, till the storm is o er." 

I finally determined to get back to land, but was 
not aware of the fact that the riding of my boat upon 
the waves had almost sawn asunder the line with 
which it was attached to the timber. As I jumped 
into the boat the line broke, and I was swept out into 
the lake, the waves sweeping over my little craft. 
For a moment I was in real danger of being lost, but 
I soon had the boat under control, and, after a few 
moments of hard work, reached the shore in safety. 

I then secured a drayman, who for the sum of ten 
dollars agreed to carry me and my effects to the un- 
burned end of the Fort Wayne & Chicago Railway 
if he could find it. He succeeded. I checked my 
goods for my home in the East, secured some refresh 
ments at a near-by restaurant, and went back into the 
burnt district. Farwell Hall was gone, and every 
building in that part of the city had disappeared. 
The paved streets, covered with hot bricks and long 
coils of burnt and twisted telegraph wire, told some- 



Of His Own Life 33 

thing of the awful story. Most of the substance of 
these great buildings had actually been carried away 
by the hot air into the water of Lake Michigan. 

After seeing something of the fearful destruction 
wrought by the conflagration, I made my way through 
the heated streets to the railway, and took an out 
going train for my home in Pennsylvania. As we 
left the city it seemed as though the whole country 
was on fire ; in all directions we could see huge banks 
of flame sweeping across the prairies, and the air was 
filled to suffocation with smoke. 

I was soon able to telegraph home of my safety 
and speedy return. It seemed as though this would 
end my work in Chicago, but two months later Mr. 
Moody telegraphed me to return and help him in the 
new temporary "Tabernacle," which had by that time 
been erected. On my return to Chicago I learned 
that Mr. Moody, after reaching his home on the North 
Side, had aroused his sleeping neighbors, assisted men 
and women into conveyances, and urged them to flee 
for their lives. As the billows of fire came nearer 
and nearer, Mr. Moody, with his wife and children, 
made his way into the northwestern district to a place 
of safety beyond the fire line. Before leaving her 
home Mrs. Moody took down from the wall an oil 
painting of her husband and asked him to carry k 
with him ; but he declined, saying that he did not think 



34 Sankeys Story 

it would look well for him to be running through the 
streets of Chicago with his picture in his arms at such 
a time! Speaking of the fire to a friend some time 
later, Mr. Moody remarked: 

"All I saved was my Bible, my family and my 
reputation." 

We continued to hold services and to help the 
poor and needy who had lost everything in the fire. 
We slept together in a corner of the new Tabernacle, 
with nothing for a bed but a single lounge, and fre 
quently the fierce prairie winds would blow the drift 
ing snow into our room. 

During these busy months Mr. Moody was always 
soliciting help from his friends, for the purpose of 
rebuilding the church which had been destroyed by 
fire. I mention the following, as a characteristic inci 
dent of his skill in securing money: While walking 
with him one day along one of the principal streets 
of the city, we met one of his old acquaintances, and 
abruptly Moody said to him : "Look here, my friend, 
I am glad to see you, and I want one thousand dol 
lars from you to help rebuild my church on the North 
Side." The man looked at him in amazement, and 
retorted : "I can t give it to you ; I haven t got a thou 
sand dollars." Mr. Moody quickly replied : "Well, you 
can borrow it." The gentleman was so amused and 
impressed with the earnestness of the petitioner that 



Of His Own Life 35 

he at once said : "All right, Mr. Moody, I ll send you 
a check to-morrow," which he did. 

In October of 1872 I moved my family to Chi 
cago, and in the same year Mr. Moody went on his 
second trip to England, leaving me in charge of the 
work at the Tabernacle, assisted by Major Whittle, 
Richard Thain, Fleming H. Revell, and others. 
There were conversions in the church and Sunday- 
school every week. 

After Mr. Moody s return we accepted an invita 
tion to go to Springfield, Illinois, to hold services, 
which were attended with great blessing. Indeed, it 
seemed that if we had remained and thus worked in 
our own country a great revival would have taken 
place. On our way to Springfield the train stopped 
at a station near Chicago, where a great crowd was 
assembled on the platform. Mr. Moody sat by an 
open window. Near by stood a tall, gaunt-looking 
countryman, with his hands in his pockets, looking 
at Mr. Moody through the window. Mr. Moody asked 
him what the crowd meant, and the man replied : 

" Oh, the folks have just come down to see the 
cars." 

" Did you know that General Grant was on the 
train ? " Mr. Moody inquired. 

" Oh, is he ?" the man exclaimed. 

Mr. Moody, with a smile, told him that he was 



36 Sankey s Story 

not. Quite nonplussed, the man walked down the 
platform a little way, but returned in a little while and 
said: 

" Hello, Mister ! We had a great time in town 
last night." 

" How was that ? " asked Mr. Moody. 

" There was a woman here, and they wouldn t 
bury her." 

"Why wouldn t they bury her?" Mr. Moody 
asked. 

" Because she wasn t dead," the man smilingly 
answered, to the great amusement of his friends. 

Mr. Moody turned to me and said : "Sankey, put 
that window down ! " 

About this time my friend Philip Phillips re 
turned from Europe, where he had been singing for 
one hundred nights in succession. He came to Chi 
cago and stopped with me. He made a very enticing 
offer, including a large salary and all expenses, if I 
would go with him to the Pacific coast and there assist 
him in his services of song. I wouldn t promise any 
thing until I had spent some hours in consultation and 
prayer with my friend, Mr. Moody ; the result was that 
I remained with him. 

In June, 1873, we sailed for England, Mr. Moody 
taking his wife and children with him, and my wife 



Of His Own Life 37 

accompanying me, having left our two children with 
their grandparents. 

The only books that I took with me were my 
Bagster Bible and my " musical scrap-book," which 
contained a number of hymns which I had collected 
in the past years, and many of which, in the provi 
dence of God, were to be used in arousing much re 
ligious interest among the people in the Old Country. 
The voyage was uneventful, but of great interest to 
our little party. Mr. Moody, shortly after leaving 
Sandy Hook, for good and sufficient reasons retired 
to his berth, where he remained for the larger part 
of the voyage. I had the good fortune to escape 
seasickness, and was able to partake of my regular 
three meals a day. Mr. Moody would frequently 
send his ship steward over to my side of the ship to 
ascertain how I was getting on, and suggesting a 
large number of infallible remedies for seasickness. 

On arriving at Queenstown, the vessel stopped 
for a short time, to land and receive mail. Among 
some letters which Mr. Moody received was one in 
forming him that both the men who had invited us 
to come to England, the Rev. William Penne father, a 
minister of the Established Church of London, and 
Mr. Cuthbert Bainbridge, a Wesleyan, and a promi 
nent merchant of Newcastle-on-Tyne, were dead. 

Turning to me, Mr. Moody said, "Sankey, it 



38 Sankey s Story 

seems as if God has closed the door for us, and if fie 
will not open it we will return to America at once." 

The next day we landed in Liverpool, strangers 
in a strange country, without an invitation, without a 
committee, and with but very little money. The situa 
tion was anything but cheerful. I have always felt 
that God was, by this strange providence, calling upon 
us to lean wholly upon him in any work in which we 
might be permitted to engage. We had no friends to 
meet us, and at once we made our way to the North 
western Hotel, where we spent the night. 

As Mr. Moody was looking over some letters 
which he had received in New York before sailing, 
and which had remained unread, he found one from 
the secretary of the Young Men s Christian Associa 
tion at York, asking him if he ever came to England 
again, to come there and speak for the Association. 
" Here is a door," said Moody to me after reading 
the letter, " which is partly open, and we will go there 
and begin our work." 

The next morning we left Liverpool, Mr. Moody 
taking his family to London, where Mrs. Moody, 
being born in England, had a sister. I, with my wife, 
went to Manchester, to the home of my greatly be 
loved friend, Henry Morehouse, whom I had met in 
Chicago. 

After three days stay in London Mr. Moody 



Of His Own Life 39 

went to York, where I joined him. On arriving there I 
went to the home of Mr. George Bennett, Honorary 
Secretary of the Young Men s Christian Association, 
who had invited us to come to York, and, on inquir 
ing if Mr. Moody had arrived, was told that he was 
in the room directly overhead. When Moody saw 
me he said, laughingly : "Our friend here is very much 
excited over our arrival, and says that he did not 
expect us so soon, and that he does not think this 
will be a good time to commence meetings, as all the 
people are away at the seaside." I was struck with 
the fact that notwithstanding these unpropitious cir 
cumstances, Mr. Moody did not show the slightest 
sign of disappointment or anxiety. After talking over 
the situation for a while, we called for Mr. Bennett, 
who was busy dispensing his medicines in his drug 
store below, and asked him if he could get the use 
of a chapel for our meetings. He at once secured 
permission to use an Independent Chapel. On his re 
turn he requested me to write out the following notice : 

EVANGELISTIC SERVICES. 
D. L. Moody of Chicago will preach, and Ira D. 
Sankey of Chicago will sing, at 7 o clock P. M. to 
morrow, Thursday, and each succeeding evening for 
a week, in the Independent Chapel. All are welcome. 
No collection. 

The first meeting was attended by less than fifty 



40 Sankey s Story 

persons, who took seats as far away from the pulpit as 
possible. I sang several solos before Mr. Moody s 
address, and that was my first service of song in Eng 
land. It was with some difficulty that I could get the 
people to sing, as they had not been accustomed to 
the kind of songs that I was using. 

Although this, the first meeting of the long cam 
paign, was not especially well received by the con 
gregation, it gave Mr. Moody an opportunity to an 
nounce his noonday prayer-meetings and Bible meet 
ings, which were to follow. The noonday prayer- 
meetings were held in a small upper room (reached 
through a dark passage-way), where the Y. M. C. A. 
held their meetings. Only six persons attended the 
first of these meetings. But these meetings were 
the beginning of days with us the rising of the cloud 
of blessing, not larger than a man s hand, but which 
was soon to overshadow us with plenteous showers, 
and often with floods upon the dry ground. 

It was at one of these noonday meetings that a 
young minister, pastor of the leading Baptist church 
of the city, his face lighted up with a light which I had 
not often witnessed before, rose and said : "Brethren, 
what Mr. Moody said the other day about the Holy 
Spirit for service is true. I have been preaching for 
years without any special blessing, simply beating the 
air, and have been toiling hard, but without the power 



Of His Own Life 41 

of God upon me. For two days I have been away 
from the meetings, closeted with my Master. I think 
he has had the victory over my arrogance and pride, 
and I believe I have made a full surrender of all to 
him, and to-day I have come here to join you in wor 
ship, and to ask you to pray for me." 

This confession and testimony was the rod in 
God s hand that smote the rock in the desert of doubt 
and unbelief at York. From that day the work took 
a new start, and soon there were hundreds of souls 
crowding the inquiry rooms. We were invited to hold 
services in this young pastor s chapel, and a large 
number were taken into his church. From that day 
on marvelous success has attended his preaching, and 
his name has become almost a household word in 
the Church at large. He has visited the conventions 
at Northfield for many years, and has conducted 
meetings of ministers in many of the leading cities 
of this country. His books have had an enormous 
circulation, and together with his addresses have 
been most helpful, not only to ministers of the gospel, 
but to Christian workers of all denominations. This 
young preacher, the Rev. F. B. Meyer, B. A., will 
ever be held in grateful remembrance by tens of 
thousands in this and other lands. 

On his way from London to Northfield this year 
(1907), Dr. Meyer paid me a most delightful visit on 



42 Sankey s Story 

a Sunday afternoon. We talked over the old times 
at York, London, Leicester and other places, and I 
sang for him, "There ll be no Dark Valley When 
Jesus Comes," and after praying with me, he promised 
to call and see me again. 

From that small beginning in York the attend 
ance at our meetings continued to increase, until not 
less than twenty thousand persons attended the meet 
ings at the Agricultural Hall, London. 

The first public mention of our arrival in England 
was as follows : 

" Mr. D. L. Moody has just arrived from Chicago 
with his family, and is accompanied by a Christian 
brother, who leads the singing at the meetings after 

the manner of our friend, Philip Phillips 

Last Lord s Day he preached in Independent and 
Wesleyan Chapels, in York, and we believe that he 
intends to continue a while in the north of England, 
and then go to Scotland. * &lt; . . ." 

Our sacred songs continued to grow in popu 
larity, and I was continually beset with requests for 
the loan of my " musical scrap-book," in which alone 
could be found the songs that were then being sung 
as solos at our meetings. For a while I permitted 
many of my friends to have them, but soon found 
that it would be impossible to continue doing so, as 
persons having my book failed to return it in time for 



Of His Own Life 43 

the meetings, thus preventing me from using the 
desired hymns at the services. To overcome this 
difficulty I had the words of a number of hymns 
printed on small cards. I hoped that these cards 
would supply the demand for the song, but as soon 
as the congregation observed that the cards were 
given out free to applicants, a rush was made for the 
platform, and the supply was exhausted the first day. 
I could not afford to continue this plan, and it was 
evident that something else had to be done. Having 
received a number of complaints from persons who 
had purchased copies of the "Hallowed Songs," which 
we were using in the meetings, that that book con 
tained but a very few of the solos the people so much 
desired, I made an effort to have the publishers of 
that book print a few of the most popular pieces and 
bind them in the back of future editions of that book. 
This offer the publishers respectfully declined, saying 
that Philip Phillips, the compiler of the book, was in 
California, and that they did not care to make any 
alterations without his permission. I wrote them 
again, saying that I was an intimate friend of Mr. 
Phillips, and that I was sure he would be very glad 
to have this addition made to his book, but again the 
offer was declined, and here the matter rested for a 
while. 

Among the many requests we had by this time 



44 Sankey s Story 

received from towns in the vicinity, was a very urgent 
one from a large watering place on the north shore 
of England. We accepted the invitation and ex 
pected to go, but a few days before the time appointed 
for our start, a deputation of ministers called upon 
us, asking if they might not recall their invitation, 
giving as the reason, that the attendance at our meet 
ings was so very large, it would no doubt interfere 
somewhat with the "penny collections," which they 
were in the habit of receiving from visitors during the 
summer season, and on which they relied very largely 
for the necessary funds to carry on the work for the 
balance of the year. Notwithstanding that Moody 
was well aware that they were making a mistake, he 
allowed them to withdraw the invitation, as we had 
many others in hand, and there was lost to that town 
an opportunity which never returned. A number of 
petitions were brought to us from this place, urging 
us to come and hold meetings, but we were never 
able to do so. 

Among other invitations was one from a minister 
at Sunderland, the Rev. A. A. Rees. Mr. Moody, 
fearing that in this case there might also be some 
trouble in regard to " penny collections," sent me to 
the place to learn the situation. Mr. Rees met me at 
the station, and I remained with him over night. 
During the evening he made a number of inquiries 



Of His Own Life 45 

about Mr. Moody, and said that a year or so ago he 
had met a man in Ireland with the name of Moody, 
and that if this was the same man, he desired very 
much to have him come and preach in his chapel. His 
reason for this was, that in the home of a Mr. Bewley, 
he had been assigned to share a bedroom with Mr. 
Moody, and before retiring Moody suggested that 
they have evening devotions, and that he had never 
heard anything that equaled Mr. Moody s prayer and 
burning desire for a greater knowledge of God s 
Word and power to preach it. On assuring him that 
this was the same man, it was at once settled that we 
should come the next week, and that there should be 
no " penny collections " to interfere with the work. 

Almost immediately after arriving Mr. Rees 
requested me to go with him to the home of Mr. 
LongstafT, treasurer of Mr. Rees chapel, and the man 
who many years afterward wrote the hymn, " Take 
time to be holy." On entering the parlor I discov 
ered an American organ in a corner of the room, 
which, I was told, had been used by Philip Phillips 
in his service of song in that city. I was requested 
to sing, which I did, not knowing that the minister 
was strongly opposed, not only to solo singing, but 
to organs and choirs as well, never allowing anything 
of the kind in his church. Among the songs that I 
sang on this occasion I recall the following : " Come 



46 Sankey s Story 

home, O Prodigal/ " Free from the law/ and " More 
to follow." The minister made no comments, but 
seemed much interested in the singing. A few days 
after our arrival in the city we were surprised to see 
the walls and billboards placarded with enormous 
posters, containing the following notice : " D. L. 
Moody of Chicago will preach the gospel, and Ira D. 
Sankey of Chicago will sing the gospel in Bethesda 
Chapel every afternoon and evening this week, except 
Saturday, at 3 and 7 o clock. All are welcome." 
Thus the phrase, " sing the gospel " originated with 
one of the most conservative ministers in England. 

We soon learned that we were in the hands of a 
pastor who was known throughout that section as 
" the pope of the north," and that none of the other 
ministers had been asked to join in the services. For 
the first time in the history of that chapel a small 
cabinet organ was not only brought in, but given con 
spicuous place in the large pulpit, from which place 
I was better able to command the galleries and lead 
the singing than would have been the case had the 
organ occupied a place on the floor below. 

Up to this time we had not organized any choirs 
to assist in the singing, but the people were learning 
the American tunes very fast, and the singing was 
becoming a marked feature of the meetings. 

The hymn most used by our congregations in 



Of His Own Life 47 

those days was, " Sun of my soul," to the tune 
" Hursley," which was almost the only distinctively 
English tune with which I was familiar up to that 
time, and finding that it could be adapted to " Rock 
of Ages," and many other hymns, we used the tune in 
almost every meeting. 

During our stay at Sunderland we occupied 
" lodgings," ordering from the market such provi 
sions as we desired, having the cooking done for us 
by those in charge of the house. On one occasion 
Mr. Moody was requested to order some fish, and, 
going through the market that day, he discovered a 
beautiful salmon, weighing not less than fifteen 
pounds, which he immediately purchased and had 
sent to our home. A fish of four or five pounds 
would have been abundantly large for our temporary 
wants, but Mr. Moody s generosity kept us in salmon 
during the remainder of our stay in that city. This 
was only a small indication of the large things always 
devised by Mr. Moody. 

While here Mr. R. C. Morgan, of London, editor 
of "The Christian," having heard of the work that, 
was going on in the north, visited us for the purpose 
of writing up an account of the meetings for his paper, 
and while seated one day at the dinner table, I re 
marked to him that I was afraid what I had heard 
about the English people being slow and conservative 



48 Sankey s Story 

was all too true. I spoke with considerable anima 
tion on the subject, and he inquired what I meant. 
I then told him of my attempt to give away my sacred 
songs, which were in such demand by the people, and 
that I could get no one to take them. He at once 
remarked that as he had been printing musical leaflets 
for a number of years, he would be glad to take some 
of mine with him to London and publish them in a 
small paper-covered pamphlet. So I cut from my 
scrap-book twenty-three pieces, rolled them up, and 
wrote on them the words, " Sacred Songs and Solos, 
sung by Ira D. Sankey at the meetings of Mr. Moody 
of Chicago." 

Mr. Morgan returned to London the next day, 
and in about two weeks we received 500 copies of the 
pamphlet, which was first used at an all-day meeting, 
held near the close of our mission in Sunderland. 
The little book was sold at sixpence per copy, and be 
fore the day was over every book had been purchased. 
We immediately telegraphed for a still larger supply, 
which was also soon exhausted, and a few days later 
copies were seen not only in the windows of book 
stores, but grocers , dry-goods establishments, etc. 
Thus began the publication and sale of a book which, 
together with the edition of words only, has now 
grown into a volume of twelve hundred pieces. 

During all our campaigns abroad it was our cus- 



Of His Own Life 49 

torn to rest on Saturdays, and to make excursions into 
the country on that day, whenever it was convenient. 
While at Sunderland, one Saturday, we took a cab and 
drove a few miles northward along the seashore. Com 
ing to an almost perpendicular cliff rising hundreds of 
feet above the level of the sea, we descended by a 
stairway to the beach below. For a while we enjoyed 
ourselves by walking along the shore, examining the 
beautiful shells left exposed by the tide, which had 
gone out before we arrived. Our attention was soon 
arrested by some one shouting from the top of the 
cliff. We saw a man wildly beckoning to us to return. 
On looking around we discovered that the tide had 
risen and had filled a deep channel between us and the 
stairway. It was clear that we had no time to lose. 
Mr. Moody suggested that I should plunge in and 
lead the way to the cliff as quickly as possible, and 
while I did so he stood looking on, convulsed with 
laughter at my frantic strides through the water over 
the slippery stones. But I reached a place of safety. 
Then the tables were turned, and it was my opportu 
nity to enjoy a sight not soon to be forgotten, as my 
friend slowly and with considerable difficulty waded 
through the constantly rising water to the place where 
I stood. We were to hold a Bible reading that after 
noon at three o clock. Not having time to go to our 
lodgings for a chance of clothing, we at once pro- 



50 Sankey s Story 

ceeded to the place of the meeting, and we held the 
service in our wet clothes and shoes. 

The experience which we had just passed through 
suggested to me the hymn, " Pull for the shore, sailor, 
pull for the shore/ and I sang the hymn at this meet 
ing for the first time in England. 

Many interesting incidents occurred at the Sun- 
derland meetings, of which I recall the following: 
One evening at the conclusion of a very earnest gos 
pel address, I was requested to sing a hymn which 
had hitherto been greatly blessed in bringing wander 
ers into the fold, " Come home, O prodigal, Come 
home ! " A deep hush prevailed during the singing, 
and just before its conclusion a cry was heard through 
the building : " Oh, father, will you forgive me ? " 
while a young man rushed from the back part of the 
room down the middle aisle to where his father was 
seated. Throwing his arms around his neck, and 
with the deepest emotion, he begged forgiveness for 
some great wrong that he had done. The father 
rose from his seat and said : " My boy, I forgive 
everything; come now, let us go into the vestry and 
ask God to forgive us both, even as I have forgiven 
you." This incident made a profound impression 
upon the whole congregation, and that night hundreds 
of penitents retired to an adjoining room for prayer 
and consultation. From this time on the spirit of 



Of His Own Life 51 

anxious inquiry deepened throughout the city, and 
in a few days Victoria Hall, the largest in the city, 
seating 3,000, was engaged for our meetings, and was 
crowded to the doors during the remainder of our 
stay. 

While here a prominent Christian gentleman of 
Newcastle-on-Tyne, Mr. Richard Hoyle, who had 
heard of our work, came over, and, after attending 
some meetings, asked if we would come to his city. 
Mr. Moody told him that if the ministers of New 
castle would unite in requesting us to come we would 
gladly do so. Mr. Hoyle returned to his city and, 
calling the ministers together, told them what he had 
seen and heard at Sunderland. As a result of this 
meeting a petition was at once signed by a large num 
ber of non-conformist ministers, together with a few 
prominent laymen, and forwarded to Mr. Moody, who 
immediately accepted the invitation. On August 25 
we arrived at Newcastle. It was a dark, gloomy 
night, the town being enveloped in a dense fog. At 
the chapel which had been selected for our opening 
meeting that night we found very few present. In 
the small audience I was impressed with the radiant 
countenance of one of the ladies, who sat near the 
front. From the opening hymn to the close of Mr. 
Moody s address, the expression on her face seemed 
to show that she fully understood and appreciated the 



5 2 Sankey s Story 

message that was being proclaimed, and at the close 
she came forward, thanking the preacher and the 
singer for what she had heard, and predicting that 
before many days a great blessing from God would 
be poured out upon that community. How truly this 
prophecy of Hannah Swinburn was fulfilled is now 
known to all. Shortly afterward I was invited with 
my wife to this lady s home, and with her delightful 
family we spent some of the happiest hours in the Old 
Country. 

In a few days the evening meetings became so 
crowded that overflow meetings had to be held in 
near-by halls and chapels. A remarkable impression 
was made at this place upon some of the people 
known as Quakers, or Society of Friends. It was not 
only by Mr. Moody s stirring addresses and Bible 
lectures, but also by the new hymns and tunes, the 
like of which had never been heard in the city before. 
It was not an uncommon sight to see an aged Quaker 
lady, dressed in the garb of her sect, as soon as it 
was announced that I would sing in the overflow 
meeting, get up and follow me to the place of the 
meeting, and take a place near the platform, where 
she could hear the new songs. It was at this place 
that I first began singing the new songs, "The Sweet 
By and By/ "That will be Heaven for me," and 
" Christ Arose," which soon became so popular all 



Of His Own Life 53 

over Great Britain, also such hymns as " Come to the 
Saviour," "When He Cometh," etc. It was most 
interesting to notice how quickly the people took up 
these songs; they sang them in the ship-yards on 
Tyneside, on the streets, in the railway trains, and in 
the market-places. It was the beginning of a revo 
lution in Great Britain in the matter of popular sacred 
songs, and now, though over thirty years have rolled 
by, it is said they are still in great favor with the 
people. It was while in this city that we organized 
the first " Moody and Sankey " choir. 

As the mission here was nearing its close, we 
went to the town of Walker to hold a meeting, and 
addressed a large number of workingmen connected 
with the shipbuilding industry at that place. At the 
close of the meeting, as we were about to leave the 
hall, and while I was on the platform gathering up 
my hymn-books, a very refined-looking gentleman, 
with a strong Scotch accent, came up to me and said : 
"Do you think Mr. Moody would go to Edinburgh 
if he had an invitation from the ministers there?" 
This canny Scot had been attending our meetings for 
the past ten days, and was reporting what he had 
witnessed to his ministerial friends in Scotland. He 
was somewhat disguised, for he wore an old, soft 
white hat, while at home he wore a very proper high 
silk hat. I told him that I thought Mr. Moody would 



54 Sankey s Story 

be very glad to go to Scotland, but that he had better 
speak to him about it. At the close of the meeting 
this gentleman, who proved to be the Rev. John Kel- 
man, of Leith, who afterward became chairman of our 
general committee in Edinburgh, took from his pocket 
a petition, largely signed by ministers and prominent 
laymen, asking us to come to Edinburgh for a series 
of meetings. He handed the paper to Mr. Moody, 
who at once accepted the invitation. 

Before going to Scotland we visited Bishop Auck 
land, Middleton, Darlington and Carlisle. In many 
of the smaller places we found considerable difficulty 
in securing small cabinet organs, it being inconve 
nient and expensive to carry our own instrument from 
place to place. I shall never forget an experience in 
Bishop Auckland. The organ, which had been sup 
plied by the committee, was placed in a high pulpit, 
where there was room for both speaker and singer. 
The organ did fairly well, till near the close of the 
meeting. While Moody was in the vestry speaking 
to the inquirers, I remained with one of the ministers 
in the large hall, conducting a service of prayer. 
While thus engaged, the organ suddenly became dis 
organized and proceeded to give forth a number of 
discordant sounds, which I was utterly unable to sup 
press, and in despair I rushed into the vestry, where 
Moody was speaking to a number of inquirers. He 



Of His Own Life 55 

asked me why I had left the prayer-meeting in the 
other room. I took him to the door of the chapel 
and asked him to listen. The organ was still pouring 
forth its shrill and inharmonious notes, and the 
prayer-meeting was brought to a rather abrupt con 
clusion. 

We went to Carlisle on November 15, 1873, on 
the invitation of a prominent Christian worker with 
whom we had no acquaintance whatever, but who 
proved to be one of the leading Plymouth Brethren 
of that place. But one minister and the pastor of the 
chapel where we held the meeting attended the first 
service. For a few days there was no power in the 
meetings, and Moody decided to call together all the 
ministers of the place to see what was wrong. When 
assembled he asked them if they knew what was the 
cause of the lack of interest in the meetings. One 
minister arose and said that he had not attended, be 
cause he did not believe in " sheep stealing." Others 
expressed the same sentiment, saying that as we had 
come to the place by invitation of one who was not 
in sympathy with the ministers and their work, as 
carried on in the churches and chapels, they had de 
cided not to have anything to do with this mission. 
Mr. Moody at once arose and said that he had never 
before been accused of " sheep stealing," or of work 
ing to either build up or tear down any one denomina- 



5 6 Sankey s Story 

tion of Christians; that he had come to Carlisle to 
preach the gospel, and that he desired the co-opera 
tion of all the ministers of the place, and asked them 
if they would not join him in prayer over the subject. 
He asked that each one present lead in prayer, and 
when this was done there was established the most 
kindly and brotherly feeling, and all promised to be 
present at all the meetings which were to follow. 

It was a dismal night in November, 1873, when 
our train rolled into the station in the city of Edin 
burgh. Desiring to avoid the formality of a reception 
at the hands of the committee and friends who had 
invited us to conduct a series of evangelistic meetings 
in their city, we had refrained from notifying them as 
to the hour of our arrival. Securing public cabs from 
the numerous array massed about the station, we were 
soon rattling along the well-lighted streets to the 
places where we were to abide. 

I had selected a hotel on the principal street, not 
far from the Walter Scott monument, and after being 
assigned my room walked out on the crowded thor 
oughfare for a stroll. I had not proceeded half a 
block when a hand was laid on my shoulder, and a 
voice said, " Ah, Mr. Sankey, is this you ? When did 
you arrive, and where is Mr. Moody? " 

I gave the desired information in a few words 
and then made bold to ask, "And, pray, who are you ?" 



Of His Own Life 57 

"The chairman of your committee," he re 
sponded. " And I ve been waiting for days to hear 
when you would arrive. Come away. You re not to 
be stopping at a public hotel when there are a hundred 
homes ready to receive you." 

So, hurrying me into a cab, and arranging with 
the hotel-keeper to release my room, I was soon wel 
comed into one of the most delightful homes in all 
Edinburgh. It was while abiding in this house that I 
wrote the music of my first Gospel song, " Yet there 
is room." 

Our first meeting in Edinburgh was advertised to 
be held on Sunday evening, November 23, and long 
before the hour for commencing the service arrived 
the whole building was densely packed to its utmost 
corners ; even the lobbies, stairs and entrance were 
crowded with people, while more than two thousand 
were turned away. 

The first announcement made was a sad disap 
pointment to the congregation, for it was that Mr. 
Moody could not be present, he having contracted a 
severe cold the day before, while on the train en route 
from Carlisle. It was further announced that Mr. 
Sankey would conduct the service of song, and the 
Rev. J. H. Wilson would preach. 

This was indeed a trying hour for the singer. 
Much had been said and written in Scotland against 



58 Sankey s Story 

the use of " human hymns " in public worship, and 
even more had been uttered against the employment 
of the " kist o whistles," the term by which they 
designated the small cabinet organ I employed as an 
accompaniment to my voice. 

A goodly number of ministers and prominent lay 
men were present. After the opening prayer I asked 
all to join in singing a portion of the One Hundredth 
Psalm. To this they responded with a will, as it was 
safe and common ground for all denominations, and 
no questions were raised as to Mr. Rouse having in 
troduced anything " human " into David s version as 
found in the Bible. This was followed by reading the 
Scriptures and prayer. 

The service having been thus opened in regular 
order, we now faced the problem of " singing the 
gospel" a term first devised and used by the Rev. 
Arthur A. Rees, of Sunderland, England, some months 
before, in advertising our meetings in that city, and 
since then much discussed in Scotland. The song 
selected for my first solo was "Jesus of Nazareth 
passeth by." 

The intense silence that pervaded that great 
audience during the singing of this song at once 
assured me that even " human hymns," sung in a 
prayerful spirit, were indeed likely to be used of God 
to arrest attention and convey gospel truth to the 



Of His Own Life 59 

hearts of men in bonny Scotland, even as they had 
in other places. 

After a powerful address by Dr. Wilson, and a 
closing prayer, I was requested to sing another solo. 
Selecting " Hold the Fort," then comparatively new 
in Edinburgh, the audience was requested to join in 
singing the chorus, " Hold the fort, for I am coming," 
which they did with such heartiness and such power 
that I was further convinced that gospel songs would 
prove as useful and acceptable to the masses in Edin 
burgh as they had in the cities of York and New 
castle in England. 

In our meetings held prior to entering Scotland, 
it had been our custom to have the committee in 
charge of the various meetings often three and four, 
in different localities, in a day see that organs were 
placed in the halls and chapels ready for use. In 
Edinburgh we failed to inform the committee that 
upon them would devolve the matter of placing the 
organs in each hall and church as needed. The con 
sequence of this oversight was that at our second 
meeting, held in Barclay Free Church, there was no 
organ provided, and therefore we could have no solo 
singing or gospel hymns. 

When the committee discovered, about the hour 
for commencing the service, that the organ was not 
present, but away off at the Music Hall, they sent 



60 Sankey s Story 

after the missing instrument, which was brought with 
great speed. 

They hoped to arrive at the meeting in season for 
the closing exercises, and this end they certainly 
would have attained had not the Jehu in charge been 
over zealous in the use of his whip. In whirling 
round a corner near the church at too great a speed 
he overturned the vehicle, rolling both deputation and 
" kist o whistles " into the middle of the street. 

The " kist " was in a sadly demoralized condition, 
and its appearance now strangely suggestive of its 
Scotch name. The outcome of the disaster was that 
Mr. Moody had to conduct the second meeting alone, 
as I had led the first alone. 

These occurrences evidently greatly pleased some 
of the Scotch folks, as they were heard to say : " It 
had a fine tendency to break up any scheme the evan 
gelists might have had in their working together." 

The third meeting was held in the same church, 
and great interest was manifested by the citizens. The 
question of the solo singing, as to its propriety and 
usefulness, was not as yet fully understood or admit 
ted ; hence it was with much fear and trepidation that 
we thus really entered, this third night, upon our three 
months campaign. 

As I took my seat at the instrument on that, to 
me, most memorable evening, I discovered, to my 



Of His Own Life 61 

great surprise, that Dr. Horatius Boriar was seated 
close by my organ, right in front of the pulpit. The 
first gospel-song music I had ever composed, written 
since coming to Edinburgh, was set to words which 
he wrote " Yet there is room." 

Of all men in Scotland he was the one man con 
cerning whose decision I was most solicitous. He 
was, indeed, my ideal hymn-writer, the prince among 
hymnists of his day and generation. And yet he would 
not sing one of his own beautiful hymns in his own 
congregation, such as, " I heard the voice of Jesus 
say," or, " I was a wandering sheep," because he min 
istered to a church that believed in the use of the 
Psalms only. 

With fear and trembling I announced as a solo 
the song, " Free from the Law, oh, happy condition." 

No prayer having been offered for this part of 
the service, and feeling that the singing might prove 
only an entertainment, and not a spiritual blessing, I 
requested the whole congregation to join me in a 
word of prayer, asking God to bless the truth about 
to be sung. 

In the prayer my anxiety was relieved. Believing 
and rejoicing in the glorious truth contained in the 
song, I sang it through to the end. 

At the close of Mr. Moody s address, Dr. Bonar 
turned toward me with a smile on his venerable face, 



LIBRARY 
KNOX COLLEGE 

TORONTO 



62 Sankey s Story 

and reaching out his hand he said : " Well, Mr. San- 
key, you sang the gospel to-night." 

And thus the way was opened for the mission of 
sacred song in Scotland. 

At one of the meetings here a young man anxious 
to gain admittance to the already over-crowded hall, 
cried out to Mr. Moody : " I have come twenty miles 
to. hear you, can t you make room for me some 
where ? " Moody calmly replied : " Well, if we push 
the walls out you know what the roof will do." 

On another occasion, as we were holding meet 
ings in the Free Assembly Hall, while I was singing a 
solo a woman s shrill voice was heard in the gallery, 
as she made her way toward the door, crying : " Let 
me oot ! Let me oot ! What would John Knox think 
of the like of yon ? " At the conclusion of the solo I 
went across the street to sing at an overflow meeting 
in the famous Tolbooth Church. I had just begun to 
sing, when the same voice was again heard, " Let me 
oot ! Let me oot ! What would John Knox think of 
the like of yon ? " 

Professor Blaikie said in the Edinburgh Daily 
Review at this time : " It is almost amusing to observe 
how entirely the latent distrust of Mr. Sankey s " kist 
o whistles " has disappeared. There are different 
ways of using the organ. There are organs in some 
churches for mere display, as some one has said, * with 



Of His Own Life 63 

a devil in every pipe; but a small harmonium, de 
signed to keep the tune right, is a different matter, 
and is seen to be no hindrance to the devout and spir 
itual worship of God." 

In 1874 my father visited Scotland, bringing with 
him my two children. He frequently said to his 
friends that he never enjoyed anything in his life as 
much as this visit to Scotland. 

In London, a little later, Gladstone, accompanied 
by Lord Kinnaird, visited one of the meetings we were 
holding at Agricultural Hall. At the conclusion of 
the address Mr. Moody was introduced to the Grand 
Old Man of England by Lord Kinnaird. " You have 
a fine body for your profession," remarked Mr. Glad 
stone. "Yes, if I only had your head on it," Mr. 
Moody replied, and then hurried away to an inquiry 
meeting. The Princess of Wales and other mem 
bers of the royal family attended a number of our 
meetings at Her Majesty s Theater, occupying their 
private box. I was told by the Duchess of Sutherland 
that the Princess was very fond of " Sacred Songs 
and Solos," a copy of which I had the pleasure of pre 
senting to her. When the weather was not propi 
tious and she remained at home from her church 
service, she would gather her children around the 
piano and sing by the hour. 

We remained in Great Britain this time for two 



64 Sankey s Story 

years, holding meetings in many of the leading cities 
of England, Scotland and Ireland. 

We found but little opposition to the use of 
hymns and organs in Ireland, and our choirs con 
tained many people of the higher walks of life. It 
was in the Exhibition Palace in Dublin that I first 
sang, " What shall the harvest be ? " I was surprised 
when Moody requested me never to sing it again in 
the meetings, and for a while he took the precaution 
personally to announce the solos that he wished to 
have sung. I afterwards learned that his reason for 
not wanting this hymn sung at his meetings was that 
a prominent minister, after having heard the hymn 
the first time I sang it, had remarked to Moody that 
if I kept on singing such hymns I would soon have 
them all dancing. However, when Moody did not 
announce the solos he wished me to sing, I would 
start up, " Sowing the seed in the daylight fair," and 
after some time he began to give it out himself occa 
sionally, and, hearing no further criticism, the hymn 
was from that time onward always sung in connection 
with Moody s address on "Sowing and Reaping." 

Another instance of Mr. Moody s being influ 
enced against certain hymns, was in the case of the 
hymn " Memories of Galilee." I first introduced this 
hymn at one of our meetings at Newcastle-on-Tyne, 
at which service a very prominent and distinguished 



Of His Own Life 65 

lady was present. She expressed herself as not ap 
proving of this kind of hymns, and Mr. Moody at 
once requested me to leave it out of " Sacred Songs 
and Solos," which I was just then preparing. I told 
him that I thought the song would certainly become 
popular, and that I very much needed some new solos, 
and that I had already sent it on to the publishers. A 
few months later this lady again heard me sing the 
song, and after the meeting she told Mr. Moody that 
she thought it was one of the most beautiful songs 
she had ever heard. The song from this time became 
a great favorite of us all. 

Some of the comedians at the theaters tried to 
make hits by changing our hymns and using our 
names on the stage. This was always resented by 
the audiences. 

In imitation of the popular song, " He s a Fraud," 
an actor one evening sang at the Royal Theater in 
Manchester some doggerel beginning, " We know that 
Moody and Sankey are doing some good in their 
way." It received both cheers and hisses from the 
audience at first, but on a repetition of the words the 
displeasure was so great that the comedian had to 
leave the stage. At a circus in Dublin, on one occa 
sion, one clown said to another, " I am rather Moody 
to-night; how do you feel?" The other responded, 
"I feel rather Sankey-monious." This by-play was 



66 Sankey s Story 

not only met with hisses, but the whole audience arose 
and joined with tremendous effect in singing one of 
our hymns, " Hold the fort, for I am coming." 

While holding meetings at Burdett road, London, 
in 1874, Mr. Moody and I one Saturday took a drive 
out to Epping Forest. There we visited a gypsy 
camp. While stopping to speak to two brothers wlio 
had been converted and were doing good missionary 
work, a few young gypsy lads came up to our car 
riage. I put my hand on the head of one of them ana 
said : " May the Lord make a preacher of you, my 
boy!" 

Fifteen years later, when Gypsy Smith made his 
first visit to America, I had the pleasure of taking him 
for a drive in Brooklyn. While passing through Pros 
pect Park he asked me : 

" Do you remember driving out from London one 
day to a gypsy camp at Epping Forest ? " I replied 
that I did. " Do you remember a little gypsy boy 
standing by your carriage," he asked again, "and 
you put your hand on his head, saying that you hoped 
he would be a preacher?" 

" Yes, I remember it well." 

" I am that boy," said Gypsy Smith. 

My surprise can better be imagined than de 
scribed. Little had I thought that the successful 
evangelist and fine gospel singer of whom I had 



Of His Own Life 67 

heard so much, and whom I had so much admired, 
was the little boy I had met in the gypsy camp. 
Truly God has granted my wish of fifteen years be 
fore, and has made a mighty preacher of the gypsy 
boy. 

During our meetings in Her Majesty s Theater at 
Pall Mall a Mr. Studd, who had a great many fast 
horses and fox-hounds, gave them all up and became 
a follower of Christ. Mr. Studd s son was attending 
Eton College, at Windsor, near the Queen s castle. 
He and Mr. Graham, of Glasgow, a member of Par 
liament, invited us to go to Windsor and hold meet 
ings for the young Lords in the college. When it was 
rumored that we would accept the invitation, the 
subject was taken up and discussed in Parliament. 

Although we were accustomed to devote Satur 
days to rest, we decided to give one Saturday to Eton 
College. When we arrived at Windsor Station we 
were met by Mr. Studd and Mr. Graham, and taken to 
the home of a merchant. As there was so much 
excitement in the town because of our coming, it was 
decided that it would be best to hold the meetings in 
this gentleman s garden. Mr. Graham gathered about 
fifty of the students under a large apple tree in the 
garden. There Mr. Moody gave a short address on 
John 3 : 16, and I sang a number of solos, including 
" Pass me not, O gentle Saviour." We also distrib- 



68 Sankey s Story 

uted copies of " Sacred Songs and Solos " among the 
students, who took an enthusiastic part in the singing. 
Mr. Studd s son, who afterward became known as 
one of the chief cricketers of England, was converted 
at this meeting. 

On one of our subsequent visits to Great Britain 
this young man got up a large petition, inviting us to 
Cambridge. The invitation to Cambridge we gladly 
accepted, and arrived there on Guy Fawkes night. 
When we entered the Corn Exchange, which was the 
largest meeting room in town, we found it filled with 
students. It was the largest religious meeting that 
had ever been held in Cambridge. On reaching the 
platform we found Mr. George E. Morgan, of " The 
Christian," London, who was then a Cambridge stu 
dent, conducting the singing. Mr. Moody asked one 
of the Dons to lead in prayer, after which he called 
upon me to sing " The Ninety and Nine." The stu 
dents listened to the first verse in perfect silence, but 
at its conclusion they vigorously beat the floor with 
canes and umbrellas, and cried, " Hear, hear ! " This 
demonstration followed each verse to the end. Mr. 
Moody s address for half an hour held the undivided 
attention of his congregation. At the conclusion 
some of the students attempted to stampede the 
meeting, but a large majority remained and gathered 
around us, saying : " These men must have fair play 



Of His Own Life 69 

while they are in Cambridge." Thus began a great 
revival in that town. Hundreds of young men dated 
their conversion from that time. 

The news of the religious work at Cambridge 
naturally spread to Oxford, and we were invited to 
hold meetings there. We had hoped that the success 
of our meetings at Cambridge would make the way 
easier at Oxford. But a similar process had to be 
gone through there. We stopped at the Bull s Head 
Hotel, and held meetings for two weeks in a large 
hall connected with that building, and eventually a 
large number of students took their stand on the 
Lord s side. 

One day as I was making some purchases in a 
bookstore in London, a sailor came rushing in, saying : 
"Give me a dozen little Sankey s, quick!" The 
hymn book " Sacred Songs and Solos " was usually 
called " Sankey s." 

While holding meetings at Campbeltown, on a 
subsequent visit to Scotland, a drunken man stag 
gered into the meeting one evening, while Mr. Moody 
was preaching. He had not been seated long before 
he arose and said : " Mr. Moody, will you please stop 
a bit, I want to hear Mr. Sankey sing The Ninety 
and Nine. Moody, with his marvelous tact, said: 
" All right ; sit down, my friend, I will ask Mr. San- 
key to sing for you." Those sitting near him said 



70 Sankey s Story 

he was visibly affected by the song. Later on when 
the invitation was given to retire to the inquiry room 
the man sitting next to this drunkard brought him in. 
I sat down beside him and talked and prayed with him. 
He said he was the black, as well as the lost sheep 
of his family, and that he wanted to sign a pledge to 
stop drinking. We did not use the pledge in those 
days, but to please this man we hunted up a copy, 
under which he signed his name, John McNeil. He 
declared his intention to give up drink forever. For 
many evenings he came to our services, and always 
went into the inquiry meetings. He told me that to 
get away from temptation he used to take his mother s 
Bible and his lunch, and for many days go into the 
hills in the country. I corresponded with him for 
over a year. He was said to have been one of the 
most wicked men of his town, and had given the police 
more trouble than any other man there, but he became 
a humble follower of Christ. 

On the 3d of August, 1875, a great farewell meet 
ing was held for us in Liverpool. Several addresses 
were made, one of some length by Mr. Moody. As 
we took our departure on the " Spain " we left with 
the most enthusiastic applause and evidences of good 
will, the great crowd on the shore singing several of 
our hymns as the vessel moved out of sight. 

After our return to America, the first meeting 



Of His Own Life 71 

held was at Northfield, on the pth of September, 1875. 
There, among many others, Mr. Moody s mother, who 
was a Unitarian, stood up for prayer. At this meet 
ing I first sang "The Ninety and Nine" in this 
country. 

One day while crossing the Connecticut River on 
a ferry, which was pulled across by a line stretched 
over the river, Mr. Bliss and I were singing, " Pull 
for the shore, sailor, pull for the shore," when we 
noticed that the boat pulled unusually heavy, and on 
investigating, found that Mr. Moody, who was sit 
ting in the rear, was pulling back on the line with all 
his might, so as to delay the trip, and give him a 
chance to listen to the singing. This illustrates Mr. 
Moody s fondness for singing. Although himself not 
a singer, he used the service of praise more exten 
sively and successfully than any other man in the 
nineteenth century. 

Brooklyn was our next place to visit. Although 
the first meeting, held in Clermont Avenue Rink, Oc 
tober 24, was at half past eight in the morning, the 
hall, which had chairs for five thousand persons, was 
packed full, and thousands were turned away for want 
of room. I was assisted in the singing here by a choir 
of two hundred and fifty voices. My first solo was, 
" Rejoice and be glad ! the Redeemer has come ! " At 
the second meeting, in the afternoon, fifteen thousand 



72 Sankey s Story 

persons had to be turned away for lack of accommo 
dation. From two to three hundred requests for 
prayer would often be announced at these meetings. 

At one of them a fine-looking young man came 
into the inquiry room along with a number of others. 
I asked him if he was willing to accept Christ as his 
only Saviour. He bowed his head in his hands as 
he sat by my side. With great earnestness, while his 
whole frame shook with deepest feeling, he replied: 

" Jesus will not accept me." 

"Why not?" 

" Because I have been an infidel for many years, 
a follower of Charles Bradlaugh, and for the last eight 
years have not ceased to speak in private and public 
against Christ. I have traveled over nearly all the 
world, and have spoken everywhere against him and 
all those who professed to be Christians; now I fear 
he will not forgive me for what I have done." 

" Do you want him to forgive you ? " I asked. 

" Well, sir," he said, " I do not know what is the 
matter with me or why I am here to-night. Some 
power that I do not understand has been working 
upon me for the last two days, and I am in a despond 
ent state of mind." 

I lifted my heart in prayer that I might make no 
mistake in dealing with this man. I waited for a mo 
ment, and then said, " My dear friend, what you need 



Of His Own Life 73 

to-night is Christ; he will dispel your gloom and 
sorrow." 

" But," he exclaimed, arousing himself from what 
seemed to be a deep reverie, " I have fought against 
him all my life, and I thought I was right, too." 

" Did you have peace in your heart when you 
were preaching against Christ?" 

He looked up at me. " No, I was a coward," he 
confessed. " I remember, while coming home from a 
long journey on the sea, we were one night driven by 
the storm near the rocks off a certain cape, and when 
I thought we were sure to go to the bottom of the 
sea, I got down on my knees and prayed to God to 
save us. The storm died, and with it went my prayers. 
For as soon as I thought we were safe, like a coward 
I went back to my old ways, and denied that there 
was a God." 

" Well," I said, " let that go. What brought you 
here to-night?" 

" I don t know," he replied. " I have not been 
in church for eight years ; I have not spoken to a 
Christian in that time, as I have lived entirely among 
infidels and skeptics. But about a year ago I received 
a letter from my poor old mother, away over in Dun 
dee, Scotland. She asked me to make her one 
promise, that when Mr. Moody and Mr. Sankey came 
back to America I would go to hear them, if they 



74 Sankey s Story 

came to the place where I was. I answered her that 
I would. When you came here I thought I would 
have to keep my word to my mother, so I went to the 
Rink two nights in succession. Since that time I 
have had no rest. Yesterday and to-day I have had 
to close up my office. I am a civil engineer. I have 
been walking the streets all day, thinking, thinking. 
Not being acquainted with any Christians to whom 
I could speak, I thought I would go once more to the 
Rink. And now here I am, talking to you." 

" My dear friend," I said, " it is an answer to 
your mother s prayer. She may be praying for her 
wandering boy this very night. Now, do not delay 
any longer. Yield to Christ and he will receive you." 

He bowed his head, while his trembling form told 
how deeply his heart was moved. After a hard strug 
gle he took my hand and said : " By the grace of God 
I take Jesus Christ as my Saviour now ! " 

After a word of prayer I asked him if he would 
not write to Scotland at once and tell his mother all 
about it, and he promised that he would. A few even 
ings later I met him at the door of the Rink. As he 
came up to shake hands and bid me good bye I asked 
him if he had written to his mother. 

" Oh, yes," said he, " but not until I had sent her 
a cable dispatch first." 

" What did you say in the dispatch ? " I asked. 



Of His Own Life 75 

" Well, I just said, I ve found Jesus/ and signed 
my name to it." 

" Thank the Lord," said I. 

" Yes," he exclaimed, " that is just what my dear 
old mother cabled back to me, Thank the Lord, O 
my soul. 

Our first meeting in Philadelphia was held on 
November 24, in the old Pennsylvania Railroad Depot, 
which John Wanamaker fitted up for our use. It had 
a seating capacity of more than ten thousand persons. 
Here, as in Brooklyn, the leading ministers gave their 
hearty support to the work and in every way expressed 
their approval of the effort. On one occasion the 
meetings were attended by President U. S. Grant, sev 
eral Senators, and members of the Supreme Court. 
During my stay in Philadelphia I often visited the 
home of Henry Clay Trumbull, then the editor of 
" The Sunday School Times," who gave us his 
heartiest support in every way. Among the laymen 
who were very efficient helpers at our meetings were 
John Wanamaker and George H. Stuart. Mr. Wana- 
maker s special meetings for young men were largely 
attended. Under Moody s powerful preaching many 
conversions took place in Philadelphia. 

A number of Princeton students attended the 
meetings, and an invitation was extended to us to go 
to Princeton to hold meetings there for the college 



76 Sankey s Story 

men, which we were glad to accept. In the Princeton 
meetings we had the warm sympathy and co-operation 
of President McCosh. Among the converts at 
Princeton was Wilton Merle Smith, now one of the 
leading ministers of New York City. 

The old Hippodrome in New York, located where 
Madison Square Garden is now, was the scene of our 
next meetings, in February, March, and April of 1876. 
It was the largest place of assembly in the city, though 
a very unattractive structure. The building had never 
been used for religious meetings before, but was a 
place for sport and gaiety. The hall which we used, 
the largest in the building, seated eight thousand. A 
monster stage was built, large enough to hold the 
choir of six hundred voices, and still to leave room 
for at least four hundred visiting clergymen and 
guests. Here for the first time I sang " Waiting and 
Watching," which afterward became a great favorite. 
Thurlow Weed, who frequently attended the meetings 
and occupied a seat at the reporters desk, would often 
have written requests laid on my organ asking me to 
sing this hymn. The New York meetings were very 
successful. One day, near the close of the ten weeks 
campaign, an audience assembled which numbered 
more than four thousand persons, all of whom con 
fessed that they had been converted at these meetings. 

Our next large meetings were held in Chicago 



Of His Own Life 77 

during the fall of 1876, in a large Tabernacle erected 
for the occasion by John V. Farwell. It was capable 
of seating more than eight thousand. At one of these 
meetings Mr. Moody s attention was attracted by an 
usher with a wand in his hand, seating the people as 
they came in. Mr. Moody did not like the man s ap 
pearance. He asked the chairman of the committee, 
Mr. Harvey, who the usher was. Mr. Harvey replied 
that he did not know, but would go and see. Taking 
the man out into the inquiry room, Mr. Harvey learned 
that his name was Guiteau the man who afterward 
shot President Garfield. So great was Mr. Moody s 
power in reading character. 

At the close of the three months mission in Chi 
cago, a farewell service was held for those alone who 
professed to have been brought to Christ during the 
meetings, and it was attended by six thousand 
persons. 

Then, for six months, we conducted meetings in 
Boston. On an average, three meetings a day were 
held, in a large temporary building erected for the 
occasion by a committee of wealthy gentlemen. Here 
also we had the hearty co-operation of many promi 
nent ministers and laymen, among whom Dr. A. J. 
Gordon, Dr. Joseph Cook, Phillips Brooks, and Henry 
M. Moore may be mentioned. Among those who 
professed conversion at these meetings was H. M. F. 



78 Sankey s Story 

Marshall, who afterward removed to Northfield, and 
there, under Mr. Moody s direction, erected a number 
of the school buildings. 

New Haven was our next field of labor. Many 
of the Yale University students were here converted, 
and afterward became useful ministers of the gospel 
throughout the country. 

At Hartford, which we next visited, Mark Twain 
attended several of our meetings. On one occasion 
P. T. Barnum, the famous showman, attended and re 
mained for an inquiry meeting, where it was my priv 
ilege to speak to him in regard to his spiritual condi 
tion. In our conversation he said : " Mr. Sankey, you 
go on singing l The Ninety and Nine/ and when you 
get that lost sheep in the fold we will all be saved." 
I afterward learned that he was a Universalist. 

For the next six months we conducted meetings 
in the churches of St. Louis. Able assistance was, 
rendered by the Rev. J. H. Brookes and other emi 
nent ministers. At one of the inquiry meetings I 
asked a fine-looking man as he was leaving the meet 
ing, if he was a Christian. " No," he replied, " I am 
a Missourian." 

On our first visit to California, we stopped at 
Ogden, so as not to travel on Sunday, and went to 
Salt Lake City on Saturday afternoon. As soon as 
it became known that we were in the city, we were 



Of His Own Life 79 

invited by the Presbyterian minister to hold services 
in his church, which we did. The interest at once 
became so great that we decided to change our plans 
and stay here for a couple of weeks. The church 
soon became too small for the great crowds, and we 
were invited to the Methodist Church, the largest in 
the city. Many Mormons attended the meetings, and 
one night two daughters of President Taylor went 
into the inquiry room and professed conversion. The 
solo singing was of great interest to the Mormons. 
A gentleman from England, who had become a Mor 
mon, and who was collector of tithes, took a great 
fancy to Mr. Moody, of whom he had heard much 
from friends in England, and invited us to hold meet 
ings in the Mormon Tabernacle. This, however, we 
declined. The Englishman said to Moody : " You 
are all right, only you don t go far enough." When 
Moody asked what he meant he said: "You do not 
have the revelation of Joseph Smith in your Bible." 
Moody answered that he was thankful for it; that 
he had no gospel of man, and that if Joseph Smith 
could have a revelation, D. L. Moody could have one 
also. This closed their discussion. A great crowd of 
people, among whom were many Mormons, came to 
the station to bid us good bye. Mr. Moody never 
visited Salt Lake City again. 

Our work spread out in all directions, and hun- 



8o Sankey s Story 

dreds of cities were visited, not only throughout the 
United States, but in Canada, and even in Mexico, 
much blessing attending all the services. 

At a meeting in Norfolk, as Mr. Moody was 
about to begin his sermon, after I had sung a number 
of hymns, the minister of the church stepped up and 
said : " I want to make a little explanation to my peo 
ple; many of my members believe that Moody and 
Sankey are one man, but brethren and sisters, this 
man is Mr. Moody, and that man at the organ is Mr. 
Sankey; they are not one person, as you supposed." 

At Chattanooga the colored people boycotted our 
meetings, the colored ministers taking offense because 
they were not invited to take seats on the platform. 
We arranged a special meeting for the colored people, 
and were surprised to find the church nearly empty 
when we arrived. But Moody was not to be defeated 
in this way. He went out into the street and gave 
personal invitation to hundreds of colored people, 
and no further difficulty was experienced. 

On one occasion, when I was leaving Chicago for 
New York on an evening train, a gentleman took his 
seat beside me. For some time nothing was said, but 
after a while we got into a general conversation. 
After discussing the weather and politics, we entered 
upon the subject of religion. This finally led to the 
discussion of Moody and Sankey. The stranger 



Of His Own Life 81 

said that he had never had the pleasure of hearing 
either of them. When I told him that I had often 
heard Moody preach and Sankey sing, he seemed 
much interested and asked: 

"What kind of folks are they?" 

" Oh, they are just common folks like you and 
me," I replied. 

His daughter, he said, had a cabinet organ and 
they were all very fond of the " Gospel Hymns," and 
he was sorry that he had not had the opportunity to 
hear Sankey sing The Ninety and Nine before he 
died. I told him I was much surprised, and asked 
him what proof he had of Sankey s death. He replied 
that he had seen it in the papers. 

" It must be true if you have seen it in the 
papers," I said. 

By this time we were nearing the station where 
my friend was to get out. Hearing the whistle blow, 
he looked out of the window and remarked : " I have 
enjoyed your company very much, but will soon have 
to leave you now." 

" I hardly think it is fair that we should part with 
out telling you that I am one of the men we have 
been talking about," I said. 

" Why, who are you ? " he asked. 

" I am what is left of Sankey." 

At this he reached for his gripsack, and giving me 



82 Sankey s Story 

a quizzical look he said : " You can t play that on me, 
old fellow ; Sankey is dead." Then he rushed for the 
door, leaving me to continue my journey alone. 

During the years which followed, we made several 
trips to Great Britain and held meetings in hundreds 
of places. In the campaign of i88i- 84 we held 
meetings in ninety-nine places in Scotland alone. 
Mr. Moody was once asked if he had kept any record 
of the number of converts at his meetings. 

" Records ! " he exclaimed, " why, they are only 
kept in heaven." 

In one of the recent revival meetings at Sheffield, 
conducted by Torrey and Alexander, a man gave the 
following testimony : " I found Christ in this hall in 
1882, when Moody and Sankey were preaching the 
gospel; I was brought face to face with God, and in 
the after-meeting Mr. Sankey led me to Christ, and I 
am happy in him to-day." 

" Well, now, that is refreshing," commented Mr. 
Alexander. " When anybody asks you if revival con 
verts stand, you can speak of that one ; he looks as if 
he is going to stay, too. As we have gone around the 
world we have found that the best workers, as a gen 
eral rule, are either workers or converts of the Moody 
and Sankey meetings. We have found them in India, 
in Tasmania, and everywhere we have gone." 

Lyord Shaftesbury, speaking at a meeting in Exe- 



Of His Own Life 83 

ter Hall, London, in the interest of evangelical work 
in Ireland, said : " Therefore go on circulating the 
Scriptures. I should have been glad to have had 
also the circulation of some well-known hymns, be 
cause I have seen the effect produced by those of 
Moody and Sankey. If they would only return to this 
country they would be astonished at seeing the influ 
ence exerted by those hymns which they sung. A 
week ago, when in Paris, I went to Belleville, the 
very nest of the communists, and even in this quarter 
I heard their hymns being sung. If we could get 
something like that in Ireland a mighty influence 
would be exerted." 

" These American laymen," said another promi 
nent man, " have wrought a work in Great Britain 
which the Church of England itself feels in its inmost 
heart. They are not, it is true, graduates of any uni 
versity ; they are men of the people, speaking the lan 
guage and using the methods not of the refined, but of 
the generality. Yet they have probably left a deeper 
impress of their individuality upon the men and 
women of Great Britain than any other persons that 
could be named." 

On our last visit to Scotland, Mr. Moody and I 
visited the town of Thursough, where we held a num 
ber of meetings. One of the ministers of the town 
said he could not join in the service, because he did 



84 Sankey s Story 

not believe in using any other songs of praise than 
those of David. 

We were invited from here to the town of 
Granton, still farther north, to hold a single service 
in the established church of that place, the Presby 
terians being opposed to our methods. When arriv 
ing we found the town had been well placarded with 
notices of our meetings, and the women and children 
lined the streets to watch us as we passed by in a 
carriage. Some one had gone through the town and 
written underneath the posters : " Human Himes." 
When arriving at the church we found it well filled, 
but very cold, and there was no stove or furnace. 
Before beginning the service Mr. Moody asked one 
of the elders how they heated the church, to which 
he replied : " Ah, mon, our minister heats it from the 
pulpit." On our return to Thursough, while driving 
along the road, we overtook a strange-looking little 
man, wearing an old silk hat, a blue coat and checked 
trousers, walking along with his wife. He called out : 
" Stop, Johnny, we want to get in." As the driver 
only smiled and drove on, I told him to stop. The 
old couple climbed in and took seats. I asked the 
old man if he had attended the Moody and Sankey 
meeting that day, to which he replied : " No, our min 
ister does not believe in the sudden conversion that 
they preach. I said : " That is Mr. Moody, beside 



Of His Own Life 85 

whom you are sitting," and Moody said : " And that 
is Mr. Sankey, beside whom your wife is sitting." 
The little man said : " Oh, gentlemen, I have made 
a mistake; I thought this was a public conveyance," 
and he arose to get out, after offering to pay for their 
fare. We told him to sit still, as there was plenty 
of room, and that the ride was as free as the gospel 
we preached. At the end of the journey he thanked 
us profoundly, saying we were different people than 
he had thought we were, and went on his way to 
Wick, where he was to attend a funeral. 

One of the most delightful experiences of my life 
was a trip to the Holy Land in 1898. I was accom 
panied by my wife, one of my sons, my brother, and 
a few friends. One of the most genial members of 
the company was the late Roswell P. Flower, with 
whom we had the pleasure of traveling for more than 
three months. We sailed from New York in Janu 
ary, made a short stop at Gibraltar, and dropped 
anchor at Alexandria. Cairo we reached by rail. 
We saw the pyramids, the Gizeh Museum, and the 
Howling Dervishes ; made an excursion to Heliopolis, 
and took the trip up the Nile to the First Cataract, 
visiting the usual places, such as Luxor and Karnak. 
At the latter place we met the old Arab who dis 
covered the mummy of Rameses II. We asked him if 
he would allow us to take a snapshot of him. This 



86 Sankey s Story 

he at first refused, but the glint of the bright Egyp 
tian sun on the proffered piece of silver secured his 
consent. 

After spending about forty days in Egypt we 
started for Palestine in March by a provokingly slow 
train from Cairo to Port Said, and thence by one of 
the regular mail steamers to Jaffa. In the Holy Land 
we followed much the usual round exploring Jerusa 
lem, Bethlehem, Jericho, Bethany and other historic 
spots, and sharing the profound emotions that forever 
stir the hearts of Christian tourists in Palestine. On 
our way home we visited Constantinople, returning 
via Athens, Naples and Rome and, of course, taking 
in Mt. Vesuvius. 

All through this trip here so briefly outlined I 
had occasion to sing the " Gospel Hymns " many 
times. The first evening in Cairo I visited the Amer 
ican Mission. I found the building well filled with 
Americans, Egyptians and English. A man on the 
platform was giving an address on temperance. The 
room was divided by a partition about two feet high, 
separating the natives from the foreigners. I made 
my way to a seat among the Americans, and had not 
been there long when a missionary beside me leaned 
over and said : " Are you not Mr. Sankey ? " When I 
replied that I was he said he hoped that I would sing 
for them. I told him that, although I had come for 



Of His Own Life 87 

rest, I would gladly sing if they had a small organ 
or piano on which I might accompany myself. There 
being no instrument in the church, the matter was 
dropped. A few minutes later a lady pressed her way 
into the pew behind me and, leaning over toward me, 
said : " I am delighted to see you here to-night, and 
I hope you will sing for us." 

She proved to be a woman from my own county 
in Pennsylvania. . Being told that there was no instru 
ment in the church, she declared that she would soon 
get one. She beckoned to four Egyptian soldiers to 
follow her. In a few minutes they returned with a 
small cabinet organ, which they placed on the plat 
form. At the conclusion of the address I gave a 
service of song, lasting for a half hour, after which I 
said good-night. But they refused to be satisfied, and 
demanded more songs. Again a number of pieces 
were rendered, and the service was finally closed. 

While returning down the Nile I was often pre 
vailed upon by missionaries along the way where the 
steamer stopped to give services of song. At several 
of these services I found that the natives already knew 
a number of our hymns. 

In Jerusalem I started early one morning to visit 
the Tower of David, which was located only a few 
rods from the hotel. I was stopped by one of the 
Sultan s soldiers, who informed me by signs and ges- 



88 Sankey s Story 

ticulations that I could not ascend the tower without 
a permit from the captain of the guard. I secured the 
desired permit by the use of a little bakhsheesh, and 
was escorted up the winding stairway by a savage- 
looking soldier carrying a gun. From the top of the 
tower may be seen one of the grandest and most inter 
esting scenes in the world. I determined to have at 
least one song in honor of King David before descend 
ing. Selecting one of the most beautiful psalms, the 
I2ist, " I to the hills will lift mine eyes," I began to 
sing at the top of my voice, using the grand old tune, 
" Belmont." The soldier, not acquainted with that 
kind of performance, and perhaps never having heard 
a sacred song in his life, rushed up to where I stood, 
looking quite alarmed. I knew that he could not un 
derstand a word of what I was singing, so I kept right 
on to the end of the psalm. Coming to the conclusion 
by this time that I was not likely to do any special 
damage either to him or to myself, the guard smiled 
and tipped his cap as I finished. By tipping him I 
returned the salutation, and then we passed down into 
the Street of David. 

A few hours later our party visited that portion 
of the city called Mount Zion, where we entered the 
fine school erected by an English bishop for the chil 
dren of Jerusalem. We were greeted by the principal, 
who proved to have been a member of my choir at the 



Of His Own Life 89 

meetings in London. I was invited to sing for the 
children, and consented to do so if they would sing 
for us first. I was much surprised to hear them sing 
some of my own songs, as well as their native songs 
in Arabic. I sang " The Ninety and Nine " and other 
songs, much to the delight of the children. 

Standing on the summit of the green hill far 
away, outside the city wall, I sang the fine old gospel 
hymn : " On Calvary s brow my Saviour died." While 
at Constantinople I visited Robert College, where I 
sang several hymns and gave an address to the Turk 
ish students; and also at the American and English 
missions in that city I rendered my service of song. 
In Rome I had the same pleasant experience, where I 
held a number of services, both speaking and singing 
in the English, American and Scotch churches. 

On returning to America I visited the soldiers in 
camp at Tampa, Florida, where I held several serv 
ices. I was here invited by Theodore Roosevelt, then 
Colonel of the Rough Riders, to conduct services at 
his camp, but a previous engagement prevented my 
accepting. 

The following year I again visited Great Britain, 
where I held services of " Sacred Song and Story " in 
thirty cities and towns. The result was that my health 
broke down. Later I lost my eyesight. 

My friend, Dwight Lyman Moody, was born Feb- 



90 Sankey s Story 

ruary 5, 1837, at Northfield, Massachusetts. His 
father, who was a stone mason, died when the lad was 
about four years old. Many years later Mr. Moody 
was laying the corner-stone of the first building at 
Northfield. His friends had secured a silver trowel 
. for him, but he refused to use it. He had been at 
his mother s home, and in the garret he had found 
one of his father s old trowels with which he had 
earned bread for the family. 

" You may keep the silver trowel," Mr. Moody 
said ; " this one is good enough for me." 

Mr. Moody used to tell of how he earned his first 
money by driving the neighbors cows to and from 
pasture at two cents a day. When he was eight years 
old a man who owned a mortgage on his mother s little 
farm came to the house one day and told the widow 
that she must pay the mortgage or get out of the 
house. The poor woman was sick at the time. She 
turned over in the bed and prayed that God would 
help her. Then she wrote to her brother, and he 
helped her by paying the interest on the mortgage for 
several years. At last, by economy and industry, the 
family was able to clear off the mortgage and retain 
the home. Many years afterward, by God s blessing, 
young Dwight was able to secure the farm belonging 
to the man who had once held the mortgage, and on 
that farm is now located the school of Mount Her- 



Of His Own Life 91 

mon, established for the education of young men. 

At the age of nineteen young Moody left the 
farm and went to Boston, where he entered a shoe 
store owned by his uncle. In Boston he was con 
verted through the preaching of Dr. Kirk, at the 
Mount Vernon Church. After remaining in Boston 
for some time, Moody went to Chicago, where he 
found employment in a shoe store owned by a Mr. 
Henderson. He made a good record in business, and 
sold more shoes than any other clerk in the establish 
ment. And whenever Mr. Henderson heard of the 
failure of any of his customers in the towns about 
Chicago, he would always send Moody to collect the 
debts, as he invariably arrived there ahead of all other 
creditors. 

While he was thus engaged Mr. Moody did not 
lose zeal in religious matters. He was very active in 
the work of the Young Men s Christian Association, 
and was soon elected president of the branch located 
at Farwell Hall. He also became much interested in 
Sunday-school work, hiring a saloon for use on 
Sundays. 

In his Sunday-school was a wicked and unruly 
young man, who constantly disturbed the exercises. 
Mr. Moody remonstrated with him a number of times, 
but to no avail. Finally, taking the young man into 
an adjoining room, he gave him a severe chastising. 



92 Sankey s Story 

When Moody returned, flushed with excitement, he 
said to his assistant superintendent: "I think I have 
saved that young man." And truly he had, for from 
that time the young disturber became an earnest 
Christian, and was one of Moody s warmest and best 
supporters for many years. Mr. Moody s Sunday- 
school work grew until he had one of the largest 
schools in Chicago, in what was known as the Illinois 
Street Church. There I joined him in 1871, acting 
as his chorister until we went to England in 1873, 
after which we continued to work together for about 
a quarter of a century. 

Dwight L. Moody was the greatest and noblest 
man I have ever known. His strongest characteristic 
was common sense. The poor heard him gladly, as 
they did his Master of old ; the rich and learned were 
charmed by his simple, earnest words. He will not 
only be remembered for his extended evangelistic 
work, but also for the two noble schools which he 
founded. 

Those schools at Northfield and Mount Hermon, 
Massachusetts, originated in this way: One day, in 
the early seventies, Mr. Moody drove up into the 
mountains near his mother s home. Stopping at a 
much dilapidated farmhouse, he hitched his horse to 
the fence and went in. The man of the family was 
sick in bed ; the mother and two daughters were mak- 



Of His Own Life 93 

ing straw hats, by which to support the family. 
Moody said to them: 

"What are you going to do? This old farm is 
unable to maintain your family." 

The girls answered that if they could obtain an 
education in some way they might afterward be 
able to earn sufficient money for the support of their 
parents. 

" Well, let us pray about it," said Moody. After 
the prayer he gave them a little money, got into 
his carriage, and started back down the mountain to 
the village. I met him on his return, and he said to 
me : " I have made up my mind to start a school for 
poor girls in New England." Later it was proposed 
to utilize the royalty received from our hymn-books 
for the erection of buildings. 

To this I heartily agreed, and this was the begin 
ning of the now famous Northfield schools. The first 
students in the school were the poor girls who were 
making the straw hats. The story of these two girls, 
and of Mr. Moody s visit to them, I told some years 
afterward to a number of summer guests at Lake 
Mohonk. The proprietor of the hotel, Mr. Smiley, 
being much impressed, took his hat and collected 
among the guests $1,500 for the school. On receiv 
ing the offering next day, Moody said to me that it 
was the most providential thing, as they were just that 



94 Sankey s Story 

amount short in making up the annual accounts of the 
school. 

Some time after the establishment of the girls 
school a wealthy gentleman from New Haven was 
visiting Northfield. He sought Mr. Moody s advice 
concerning the making of his will, and Mr. Moody 
said : " Be your own executor and have the joy of 
giving your own money." He then asked Mr. Moody 
to suggest a worthy object, and Mr. Moody outlined 
his plan for a boys school. 

" I will give $25,000 to commence with," said the 
old, white-haired man. 

The offer was gladly accepted. It was this money 
which Mr. Moody used for buying the farm of the 
man who had ordered his widowed mother from her 
home. On this farm, situated four and a half miles 
from the girls school, across the Connecticut River, 
are now located a number of buildings, in which 
young men from all over the world are educated. 
About a thousand students attend the schools every 
year. One hundred dollars a year is charged for 
each student, but pupils are expected to do whatever 
work they can to help along. 

After forty-four years of faithful and consecrated 
labor for his Master, Mr. Moody passed on to his 
reward December 22, 1899. 

The last meeting Mr. Moody and I held together 



Of His Own Life 95 

was in Dr. Starrs church, in Brooklyn. His subject 
at this time was " Mary and Martha." I had often 
listened to him speaking on these two friends of Jesus 
before, but never with greater pleasure than on this 
occasion. His heart seemed very tender, as he talked 
in a quiet and sympathetic way about Mary, Martha, 
and their brother Lazarus, and the love and sympathy 
that existed between them and Jesus. The hearts of 
all present seemed deeply moved, and many strong 
men, unused to tears, were unable to hide their emo 
tion. Hundreds tarried after the meeting to shake 
hands, many recalling memories of blessings received 
in the meetings in this city twenty-five years before. 
Mr. Moody seemed to have just as much power and 
unction upon him in this meeting as I had ever wit 
nessed during all the long years of our united labors. 
Little did I think that this was to be our last service 
together. A few weeks later I spent a Sunday with 
him in New York, walking with him to Dr. Hall s 
church and back to the hotel, where we parted for 
the last time. 

On my way from Canada I stopped over one night 
in Rochester to hold a service of " Sacred Song and 
Story," and there I received the last letter from him, 
It was dated at Northfield, November 6, 1899, con 
taining nine pages, in which he spoke of his work in 
Northfield and Chicago. He also told me he was 



96 Sankey s Story 

due in New York at 3.30 on Wednesday, and asked 
if I could meet him at the Murray Hill Hotel. I at 
once telegraphed that I would come down on the 
night express and see him the next morning. When 
I arrived he had gone. I learned later that he went 
to Philadelphia on Wednesday evening, spending an 
hour with friends there, and took the night train for 
Kansas City, where he fell in the front of the battle, 
as brave a soldier of the cross as ever won a victor s 
crown. 




sending forth this book on its 
mission I wish to express my thank 
fulness to Almighty God for having 
permitted me to live, move and have my 
being; for the promise which he hath given 
of eternal life through his name ; and for the 
confidence that I shall be with him by and by 
in the land where there is no more pain, 
sorrow or death, and where he shall wipe all 
tears from our eyes* 

My three latest favorite songs, " Hiding 
m Thee," "There ll be no Dark Valley," 
and " Saved by Grace," besides the old famil 
iar "Ninety and Nine," are herewith re 
produced, as an appropriate closing for this 
autobiographical sketch. 




C 



Hiding in Thee* 





RBV. WILLIAJ 

f* N 

[-Mr 1 I- 


K O. CUSHINO. IRA D. SANKBT. 
Copyright, 1877, by Billow * Main. Used b y Permission 

as m J TH 1 1 1 l~s 1 i i 1 1 i 




4 .^rf 1 r* * * 

1. O safe to the 
2. lu the calm of the 
3. How oft in the 

"^ f 8 " * 


12? _*. j_ju&gt;-ir j ^ i j_- J 

Rock that is high - er than I, 
noon - tide, in sor - row s lone hour, 
con - flict, when press d by the foe, 

f ff * K_ = L. 1 & \ 


- 


H . 1 
1 1 


-1 1 


t^i p 


-f-H 1 


My soul in its 
In times when temp - 
I have fled to my 


con - flicts and sor - rows would fly; 
ta - tion casts o er me its power; 
Ref - uge and breath d out my woe; 

m- -m- -& -m- 
~&&amp;gt; E: &gt; -\ F 1 a i ;f^ . i 




!&gt; ! 


I | | 


1 * 
1 

1 1 


fa&gt; , j dbrfd i 
i t t 


fe, J J =-: 5 -- 33 * l 37-1-37 1 

J ^ * * -pr f -*--)-. 

So sin - ful, so wea ry, Thine, Thine would I be; 
In the tern - pests of life, on its wide, heav - ing sea; 
How oft - en, when tri als like sea - bil - lows roll, 






| | 


J 1 1 tj , , LJ 1 
REFRAIN. , 


^-W 1^ *-vd ~H^ g-Hg-l -J." i g g:s I^:^H 
^~&gt; 
Thou blest "Rock of A - ges," I m hid - ing in Thee. ) 
Thou blest "Rock of A -ges," I m hid - ing in Thee. }- Hid -ing in Thee, 
Have I hid - den in Thee, O Thou Rock of my soul. ) 




;. &gt;\Jr If?- 


_P !?_ L= *_ 


h^ -!- 


^g-x k i 


=*-M 


* 




j^ J I ^- 




_=t , : =1 




3 

; L 


^^ f-jJS-t-g^ aL-Us^ -, ^. \ J % * &4 3--ylpj.__LJ 

1 i 1 

Hid - ing in Thee, Thou blest "Rock of A - ges," I m hid - ing in Thee. 






-V-4I 







There ll Be No Dark Valley. 



RBT. WILLIAM O. GUSHING. IRA D. SANKBY. 
Copyright. 18*5, by Th Biglow A Main Co. Used b y P ermis sion 


J ~ 5 -*- * i :g: * t -*- ~" -- 

1. There ll be no dark val- ley when Je - sus comes, There ll be no dark 
2. There ll be no more sor - row when Je - BUS comes, There ll be no more 
3. There ll be no more weep- ing when Je - sus comes, There ll be no more 
4. There ll be songs of greet -ing when Je - sus comes, There ll be songs of 


!~4^-x fc54j i * 


j * r r j ^-^- u 

H fe 1 i 1 1 T~l 


C/ ^ 1 ^ ** -g- -g- ;*; 9 ** -*- 

val - ley when Je - sus comes; There ll be no dark val - ley when Je - BUS comes 
Bor - row when Je - sus comes; But a glorious mor -row when Je - sus comes 
weep-ing when Je - sus comes; But a bless-ed reap ing when Je - BUS comes 
greet-ing when Je - sus comes; And a joy - ful meet-ing when Je BUS comes 

~t~T~~*~~P"~!*""!*"* i*T*"* hi h| 1 1 


1 t 1 


* * II i v \ * \* * gzj 

REFRAIN. ^ , ,. * 

( : j_ ~_j j5 _._j !_ 


& * ^ 

To gath - er His loved 

p- -*-) -p- 


-ji J . 1 g-4-Ir 5 ^S p r=l 
i i 

ones home. To gath er His loved ones 

-4^+g: Lj-ni ^J^ 


" b r * ^ * i 

t b J. ra-^- 


I . 1 1 S ft 


cf r r i i 

home, To gath - 
safe home, 


k 1 f 1 , 
er His loved ones home; There ll be 
safe home; 

_ -p- -p- j V bJ J * 


E 1 1 UK 

I 




no dark val - ley when Je - BUS comes To gath-er His loved ones home. 







Copyright, 1906, by In, D. Saakey. 



Saved by Grace* 



FANNY J. CBOSBT. Gzo. C. STEBBINS. 

Copyright, 1894, by The Biglow * Main Co. Used by permission 

- 



4Lfr_ ^-^"t ^^^^^f^^ 




1 Some day the sil - ver cord will break, And I no more as now shall sing; 
g Some day my earth -ly house will fall, I can - not tell how soon twill be, 

3 Some day.when fades the gold-en sun Be-neuth the ro - sy -tint - ed west, 

4 Some day ; till then Til watch and wait, My lamp all trimm d and burning bright. 




*w *- :s: . -* 1 * 

But, O, the joy when I "shall wake With-in the pal - ace of the Kingl 
But this I know- my All in All Has now a place in heav n for me 
My bless -ed Lord shall say,"WeIl done!" And I shall en - ter in - to rest 
That when my Sav - iour ope s the gate, My soul to Him may take its flight. 




CHORUS. 



And I shall see Him face to face, And tell the 

j shall see ^ I to face, 




eto - ry- Saved by grace; And 1 shall see Him face to 

1 8IU1.11 666 _ 

^ .. +.* + r L r ir -g- 




Efe 






:. , II 


i 


face, And tell the 
_i _L.-^-_^^S * ^= 


Bto - ry Saved by 


grace. 











B. C. 



The Ninety and Nine* 



Copyright, 1874, by The Biglow 4 Main Co. 




1 



IRA D. SAKKIY. 






s s s i- 



1. There were nine-ty ana nine that safe - ly lay In the shel - ter of the 
3. "Lord, Thou hast here Thy nine - ty and nine; Are they not e - nough for 
3. But none of the ran-somed er - er knew How deep were the wa- tera 



+^^ 



fold, Bnt one waa out on the hills a- way, Far off from the 

Thee?" But the Shep-herd made an swer: k% This of mine Has wan - dered 
cross d; Nor how dark waa the night that the Lord pass d thro Ere He found His 





F^F* 


^Fife 














P^-r^^ 


gates of gold 
a way from me, 
eheep that was lost; 

m~** 


^*=i=*- 

A way on the moun 
And, al - though the roud 
Out m the des - ert 

-g^-h ^-s * *"&gt;: 


*-^ 

tains wild and 
be rough and 
He heard it 

-*- -p- -&lt; 


^t-t^-si 

bare, A - 
steep, I 
j cry 

^ 


iM?h P 


= * 


=5^ 


^ 


--- 


~~mr 


r^Tr- 


f- 


^r- 


- f 




way from the tender Shepherd s care, A-way from the ten-der Shep-lierd s care, 
go to the desert to find my sheep, I go to the desert to find my sheep." 
Sick and helpless, and read-y to die, Sick and helpless, and ready to die. 



t:-L-L-J 



asrpt 



r sed by per. 



4 " Lord, whence are those blood-drops all the way 

That mark out the mountain s track?" 
"They were shed for one who had gone astray 

Ere the Shepherd could bring him back. " 
"Lord, whence are Thy hands so rent and torn?" 
44 They are pierced to-night by many a thorn." 

5 But all thro the mountains, thunder-riven, 

And up from the rocky steep, 
There arose a glad cry to the gate of heaven, 

"Rejoice! I have found my sheep!" 
And the Angels echoed around the throne, 
" Rejoice 1 for the Lord brings back His own! * 



SANKEY S STORY OF 
THE GOSPEL HYMNS 



SANKEY S STORY OF THE 
GOSPEL HYMNS 

A Mighty Fortress 

Words by Martin Luther Music by Martin Luther 

"A mighty fortress is our God, 
A bulwark never failing." 

Martin Luther, the great leader of the Reforma 
tion, is the author of both the words and music of this 
famous hymn, probably written in 1521. Two of the 
most popular English translations are by the Rev. Dr. 
F. H. Hedge and Thomas Carlyle. 

While Luther was still living his enemies in the 
Roman Catholic Church declared that the whole Ger 
man people were singing themselves into Luther s 
doctrines, and that his hymns " destroyed more souls 
than all his writings and sermons." 

During the prolonged contest of the Reformation 
period "A Mighty Fortress" was of incalculable benefit 
and comfort to the Protestant people, and it became the 
national hymn of Germany. Gustavus Adolphus, the 
hero of the Thirty Years War, used it as his battle- 
hymn, when he led his troops to meet Wallenstein. 

The first line of this hymn is inscribed on Luther s 
monument in Wittenburg. Luther himself found great 
comfort in his hymn. When dangers thickened around 

105 



106 Sankey s Story 

him he would turn to his companion, Melanchthon, 
and say : "Come, Philip, let us sing the 46th Psalm" 
and they would sing it in this characteristic version. 

t%* 

In 1720 a remarkable revival began in a town in 
Moravia. Jesuits opposed it, and the meetings were 
prohibited. Those who still assembled were seized and 
imprisoned in stables and cellars. At David Nitsch- 
mann s house, where a hundred and fifty persons gath 
ered, the police broke in and seized the books. Not 
dismayed, the congregation struck up the stanza of 
Luther s hymn, 

"And though this world, with devils filled, 

Should threaten to undo us; 
We will not fear, for God hath willed 
His truth to triumph through us." 

Twenty heads of families were for this sent to jail, in 
cluding Nitschmann, who was treated with special 
severity. He finally escaped, fled to the Moravians at 
Herrnhut, became a bishop, and afterwards joined the 
Wesleys in 1735 in their expedition to Savannah, 
Georgia. 

A Shelter in the Time of Storm 

Words by V. J. Charlesworth Music by Ira D. Sankey 

" The Lord s our Rock, in Him we hide, 
A shelter in the time of storm." 

I found this hymn in a small paper published in 
London, called " The Postman." It was said to be a 
favorite song of the fishermen on the north coast of 
England, and they were often heard singing it as they 



Of the Gospel Hymns 107 

approached their harbors in the time of storm. As 
the hymn was set to a weird minor tune, I decided to 
compose one that would be more practical, one that 
could be more easily sung by the people. 



A Sinner Forgiven 

Words by Jeremiah J. Callahan Music by I. B. Woodbury 

" To the hall of the feast came the sinful and fair; 
She heard in the city that Jesus was there. 

"Mr. F. Markham, connected with a large and 
well-known piano factory, was leading an ungodly 
and heedless life," says a London periodical. " One 
day he saw an announcement that Moody and Sankey 
were to open a mission at St. Pancras that evening. 
Instantly he resolved to go and hear the singing. He 
and a companion reached the hall in good time, as 
they thought, only to find it crowded to the doors. An 
overflow meeting was announced at a neighboring 
church, and thither they went. By and by Mr. Sankey 
sang To the hall of the feast came the sinful and fair/ 
As Markham listened, his past life seemed to rise be 
fore him; the tears rushed into his eyes; his heart 
seemed broken. Coming out, he asked his companion 
what he thought of it. Oh/ was the careless reply, 
he is a nice singer. Is that all ? It has broken my 
heart. Ere long he could say, in the words of the 
song, He looked on his lost one; my sins are for 
given/ When he got home his wife was amazed at 
what had come over him, and could not make out 
where he had been. She had been converted years 



io8 Sankey s Story 

before, but had backslidden. She accompanied him to 
the mission on the following evening, and was happily 
received. The man became a Christian worker, and is 
the founder and superintendent of the Tahhall Road 
Factory Lads Home and Institution. 

Abide With Me 

Words by H. F. Lyte Music by William H. Monk 

"Abide with me! Fast falls the eventide, 
The darkness deepens Lord, with me abide." 

One of the many instances of the power of this hymn 
has been recorded by Dr. Theodore L. Cuyler : " Dur 
ing my active pastorate I often got better sermons from 
my people than I ever gave them. I recall now a most 
touching and sublime scene that I once witnessed in 
the death-chamber of a noble woman who had suffered 
for many months from an excruciating malady. The 
end was drawing near. She seemed to be catching a 
foregleam of the glory that awaited her. With trem 
ulous tones she began to recite Henry Lyte s matchless 
hymn, Abide with me ! Fast falls the eventide/ One 
line after another was feebly repeated, until, with a 
rapturous sweetness, she exclaimed : 

Hold Thou Thy cross before my closing eyes, 
Shine through the gloom, and point me to the skies; 
Heaven s morning breaks, and earth s vain shadows flee! 
In life, in death, O Lord, abide with me. 

" As I came away from that room, which had been 
as the vestibule of heaven, I understood how the light 
of eventide could be only a flashing forth of the over- 



Of the Gospel Hymns 109 

whelming glory that plays forever around the throne 

of God." 

^ 

Henry Francis Lyte wrote this hymn in 1847, m 
his fifty-fourth year, when he felt the eventide of life 
approaching. For twenty years he had ministered to 
a lowly congregation in Devonshire. He decided to 
spend the next winter in Italy, on account of rapidly 
declining health. On a Sunday in September in 
weakness, and against the advice of his friends he 
preached a farewell sermon to his much-loved people, 
and in the evening of the same day he wrote this im 
mortal hymn. He died a few weeks later, his last 
words being "Peace, joy !" 

All to Christ I Owe 

Words by Mrs. Elvina M. Hall Music by John T. Grape 

"1 hear the Saviour say, 
Thy strength indeed is small." 

" Our church was undergoing some alterations," 
writes Mr. Grape, " and the cabinet organ was placed 
in my care. Thus afforded a pleasure not before en 
joyed, I delighted myself in playing over our Sunday- 
school hymns. I determined to give tangible shape to 
a theme that had been running in my mind for some 
time to write, if possible, an answer to Mr. Brad 
bury s beautiful piece, Jesus paid it all. I made it a 
matter of prayer and study, and gave to the public the 
music, now known as the tune to All to Christ I owe/ 
It was pronounced very poor by my choir and my 
friends, but my dear wife persistently declared that it 



no Sankey s Story 

was a good piece of music and would live. Time has 
proved the correctness of her judgment. Soon after 
the Rev. Mr. Schrick called on me to select anything 
new in music that I had to offer. On hearing this 
piece he expressed his pleasure with it, and stated 
that Mrs. Elvina M. Hall had written some words 
which he thought would just suit the music. I gave 
him a copy of it, and it was soon sung in several 
churches and well received. At the suggestion of 
friends, I sent a copy to Professor Theodore Perkins, 
and it was published in Sabbath Chords/ Under the 
providence of God, it has been going ever since. I 
trust that it has not failed in the accomplishment of 
some good to my fellow-men, for the glory of God." 



On New Year s night, 1886, some missionaries 
were holding open-air services in order to attract 
passers-by to a near-by mission, where meetings were 
to be held later. "All to Christ I owe" was sung, and 
after a gentleman had given a short address he 
hastened away to the mission. He soon heard foot 
steps close behind him and a young woman caught up 
with him and said : 

" I heard you addressing the open-air meeting 
just now; do you think, sir, that Jesus could save a 
sinner like me ? " 

The gentleman replied that there was no doubt 
about that, if she was anxious to be saved. She told 
him that she was a servant girl, and had left her place 
that morning after a disagreement with her mistress. 
As she had been wandering about the streets in the 



Of the Gospel Hymns 

dark, wondering where she was to spend the night, the 
sweet melodies of this hymn had attracted her, and 
she drew near and listened attentively. As the differ 
ent verses were being sung, she felt that the words 
surely had something to do with her. Through the 
whole service she seemed to hear what met her op 
pressed soul s need at that moment. God s Spirit had 
showed her what a poor, sinful and wretched creature 
she was, and had led her to ask what she must do. 
On hearing her experience, the gentleman took her 
back to the mission and left her with the ladies in 
charge. The young, wayward woman was brought to 
Christ that night. A situation was secured for her 
in a minister s family. There she became ill and had 
to be taken to a hospital. She rapidly failed and it 
became evident that she would not be long on earth. 
One day the gentleman whom she met on New Year s 
night was visiting her in the ward. After quoting a 
few suitable verses of Scripture, he repeated her 
favorite hymn, "All to Christ I owe." On coming to 
the fourth verse 

" When from my dying bed 

My ransomed soul shall rise, 
Then Jesus paid it all, 
Shall rend the vaulted skies/* 

she seemed overwhelmed with the thought of coming 
glory, and repeated the chorus so precious to her, 

"Jesus paid it all, 
All to Him I owe." 

Two hours afterward she passed away. 



H2 Sankey s Story 

Almost Persuaded 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by P. P. Bliss 

" Almost persuaded/ now to believe; 
* Almost persuaded/ Christ to receive." 

" He who is almost persuaded is almost saved, 
and to be almost saved is to be entirely lost," were the 
words with which the Rev. Mr. Brundage ended one 
of his sermons. P. P. Bliss, who was in the audience, 
was much impressed with the thought, and immedi 
ately set about the composition of what proved to be 
one of his most popular songs. 

One of the most impressive occasions on which 
this hymn was sung was in the Agricultural Hall in 
London, in 1874, when Mr. Gladstone was present. 
At the close of his sermon Mr. Moody asked the con 
gregation to bow their heads, while I sang "Almost 
Persuaded." The stillness of death prevailed through 
out the audience of over fifteen thousand, as souls 
were making their decisions for Christ. 

^ 

"While engaged in evangelistic work in western 
Pennsylvania," writes the Rev. A. J. Furman, " I 
saw the people deeply moved by singing. I had begun 
my preparation to preach in the evening, from the 
text, Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian, 

when it occurred to me that if Mrs. B , an estimable 

Christian and a most excellent singer, would sing, 
Almost Persuaded as a solo, great good might be 
done. At once I left the room and called on the 
lady, who consented to sing as requested. When I 



Of the Gospel Hymns 113 

had finished my sermon, she sang the song with won 
derful pathos and power. It moved many to tears. 
Among them was the principal of the high school, 
who could not resist the appeal through that song. 
He and several others found the Pearl of Great Price 
before the next day. After the close of the sermon, I 

spoke to Mrs. B about the effect of her singing, 

and she told me that she had been praying earnestly 
all that afternoon, that she might so sing as to win 
sinners for her Saviour that night, and her prayers 
were surely answered." 

/^ 

"It was Sunday night, November 18, 1883," 
writes Mr. S. W. Tucker, of Clapton, London, "when 
I heard you sing Almost Persuaded in the Priory 
Hall, Islington, London, and God used that song in 
drawing me to the feet of Jesus. I was afraid to trust 
myself in His hands for fear of man. For six weeks 
that hymn was ringing in my ears, till I accepted the 
invitation. I came, and am now rejoicing in the Lord, 
my Saviour. How often, with tears of joy and love, 
have I thought of those meetings and of you and dear 
Mr. Moody, who showed me and other sinners where 
there was love, happiness and joy." 

*+* 

Said a young man to the Rev. Mr. Young : "I in 
tend to become a Christian some time, but not now. 
Don t trouble yourself about me. I ll tend to it in good 
time." A few weeks after, the man was injured in a 
saw-mill, and, as he lay dying, Mr. Young was called 
to him. He found him in despair, saying: "Leave 



H4 Sankey s Story 

me alone. At your meeting I was almost persuaded, 
but I would not yield, and now it is too late. Oh, 
get my wife, my sisters and my brothers to seek God, 
and do it now, but leave me alone, for I am lost." 
Within an hour he passed away, with these words on 
his lips, "I am lost, I am lost, just because I would 
not yield when I was almost persuaded." 



Are You Coming Home To-night ? 

Words by C. C. Music by James McGranahaa 

" Are you coming Home, ye wand rers 
Whom Jesus died to win?" 

A wild young soldier was induced to attend a Gos 
pel meeting in London. As he entered, the congrega 
tion was singing " Are you coming Home to-night ? " 
The song made a deep impression upon him. He 
came back the next night, and he continued to attend 
until he was saved. " I had to come," he said ; " that 
hymn would not let me stay away. I could not sleep 
at night. All night long that question of the song, 
both in the words and music, kept returning to me, 
demanding an answer : * Are you coming Home to 
night? " 

ttf 

The original of this hymn was written by a young 
lady in Scotland, who signed herself " C. C." Falling 
into Mr. McGranahan s hands, he arranged the poem 
somewhat differently, and set the words to music. 
The song has brought blessing to many. 



Of the Gospel Hymns 
Arise, My Soul, Arise 

Words by Charles Wesley Music by Lewis Edson 

" Arise, my soul, arise, 
Shake off thy guilty fears." 

First published in 1742 under the title, "Behold 
the Man," this became one of the most useful of 
Charles Wesley s numerous hymns. In universal use 
in English countries, and translated into many lan 
guages, it has been the direct instrumentality in the 
conversion of thousands of souls. It has found ex 
pression in the exultant cry on the lips of many a 
dying saint. 

"I have a record/ said a Wesleyan missionary 
laboring in the West Indies, "of two hundred persons, 
young and old, who received the most direct evidence 
of the forgiveness of their sins while singing Arise, 
my soul. The conversion of the greater number of 
these persons took place while I was a missionary 

abroad." 

Art Thou Weary ? 

Words by the Rev. J. M. Neale, trans. Music by the Rev. Henry W. Baket 

" Art thou weary, art thou languid, 
Art thou sore distressed?" 

"Some years ago," writes Mr. James A. Watson, 
of Blackburn, England, "I often visited one of our 
adult Sunday-school scholars who had just been 
brought to the knowledge of the Saviour. She was 
formerly a Roman Catholic, but was brought to our 
church one Sunday evening by a fellow-worker in a 
cotton mill. She heard a gospel of full and free sal 
vation, embraced it, and gradually became a faith-filled, 
consistent Christian. She was laid low with a serious 



n6 Sankeys Story 

illness, but it was always a pleasure to visit her. On 
one occasion she told me that the evening before, when 
she had been left alone for the night, a cloud came 
over her spirit, the sense of loneliness grew upon her, 
and she seemed forsaken of God. All looked black, 
and she dreaded the long, lone night. This was a 
most unusual thing and she wondered why it should 
be so. Just then, in the quiet night, she heard steps 
on the flags of the foot-way. A man wearing the clogs 
of the factory operator was coming along, evidently 
returning late from some religious meeting. He was 
full of joy, for before he reached the house where my 
scholar was lying awake, he struck up in a joyful and 
loud song, 

"Art thou weary, art thou languid? 

Art thou sore distressed? 
Come to Me/ saith One; 
And coming, be at rest!" 

The singer, an angel in clogs, went on his way, sing 
ing aloud out of a full heart ; but deep down into the 
heart of the lonely woman went the words, Be at rest ! 
Again she cast herself upon the Lord; the cloud 
parted, peace and rest filled her heart, and she doubted 

no more." 

Asleep in Jesus 

Words by Mrs. Margaret Mackay Music by W. B. Bradburj 

"Asleep in Jesus! blessed sleep! 
From which none ever wake to weep." 

" I had been driven in a friend s pony-carriage 
through some of the exquisite green lanes in Devon 
shire," wrote the author of this hymn the year before 
her death. " We paused at Pennycross, attracted by 



Of the Gospel Hymns 117 

a rural burial-ground, and went in to look at the 
graves. It was a place of such sweet, entire repose 
as to leave a lasting impression on the memory. There 
were no artificial walks or decorations, but the grass 
was very green, and there were no unsightly signs of 
neglect. On one of the stones were the words, 
Sleeping in Jesus. It was in such entire keeping with 
the lovely and peaceful surroundings that it clung to 
my thoughts. On arriving at home I took a pencil 
and commenced writing the hymn, little thinking that 
it was destined to find so much favor, and that part of 
it would be inscribed on many tombstones." 

Mrs. Mackay was born in Scotland, and died at 
Cheltenham, England, in 1887, at the age of eighty- 
five. Her husband was a distinguished lieutenant- 
colonel in the British army. 

At the Cross 

Words by Isaac Watts Music by R. E. Hudson 

"Alas! and did my Saviour bleed? 
And did my Sovereign die?" 

" At the Cross " is the name of the new tune by 
R. E. Hudson for the old hymn by Watts, " Alas, and 
did my Saviour bleed." The words were first pub 
lished in Watts " Hymns and Spiritual Songs," in 
1707, under the title, " Godly Sorrow Arising from the 
Sufferings of Christ." In " Sacred Songs and Solos " 
the new tune is used to the hymn " I m not ashamed 
to own my Lord." 

The children s evangelist, E. P. Hammond, 
credits this hymn with his conversion, when he was 
only seventeen years old. 



n8 Sankey s Story 

Beautiful River 

Words by Robert Lowry Music by Robert Lowrj 

"Shall we gather at the river 
Where bright angel feet have trod?" 

On a sultry afternoon in July, 1864, Dr. Lowry 
was sitting at his study table in Elliott Place, Brooklyn, 
when the words of the hymn, " Shall we gather at the 
river?" came to him. He recorded them hastily, and 
then sat down before his parlor organ and composed 
the tune which is now sung in all the Sunday-schools 
of the world. In speaking of the song, Dr. Lowry 
said: 

" It is brass-band music, has a march movement, 
and for that reason has become popular, though, for 
myself, I do not think much of it. Yet on several 
occasions I have been deeply moved by the singing of 
this very hymn. Going from Harrisburg to Lewisburg 
once I got into a car filled with half-drunken lumber 
men. Suddenly one of them struck up, Shall we 
gather at the river ? and they sang it over and over 
again, repeating the chorus in a wild, boisterous way. 
I did not think so much of the music then, as I listened 
to those singers ; but I did think that perhaps the spirit 
of the hymn, the words so flippantly uttered, might 
somehow survive and be carried forward into the lives 
of those careless men, and ultimately lift them upward 
to the realization of the hope expressed in the hymn. 
A different appreciation of it was evinced during the 
Robert Raikes centennial. I was in London, and had 
gone to a meeting in the Old Bailey to see some of the 
most famous Sunday-school workers of the world. 






Of the Gospel Hymns 119 

They were present from Europe, Asia and America. 
I sat in a rear seat alone. After there had been a num 
ber of addresses delivered in various languages I was 
preparing to leave, when the chairman of the meeting 
announced that the author of Shall we gather at the 
river ? was present, and I was requested by name to 
come forward. Men applauded and women waved 
their handkerchiefs as I went to the platform. It was 
a tribute to the hymn ; but I felt, after it was over, that 
I had perhaps done some little good in the world." 

The year after it was written, on Children s Day, 
in Brooklyn, when the assembled Sunday-schools of 
the city met in bewildering array, this song was sung 
by more than forty thousand voices. There was not 
a child from the gutter or a mission waif who did not 
know it. 

4W 

An American lady writing from Cairo, who was 
allowed to visit the military hospital soon after some 
wounded men had been brought in from a skirmish, 
says : " The three hours we could stay were full of 
work for heart and hand. One young soldier from a 
Highland regiment especially excited my interest. He 
had lost a limb, and the doctor said he could not live 
through the night. I stopped at his side to see whether 
there was anything that I could do for him. He lay 
with closed eyes ; and as his lips moved I caught the 
words, Mother, mother/ I dipped my handkerchief 
in a basin of iced water, and bathed his forehead where 
the fever flushes burned. 



I2O San key s Story 

11 Oh, that is good ! he said, opening his eyes. 
Seeing me bending over him, he caught my hand and 
kissed it. Thank you, lady/ he said ; it minds me o 
mother. 

" I asked him if I could write to his mother. No, 
he said ; the surgeon had promised to write ; but could 
I, would I, sing to him? I hesitated a moment, and 
looked around. The gleam on the yellow water of the 
Nile, as the western rays slanted down, caught my eye 
and suggested the river the streams of which shall 
make glad the city of God. I began to sing in a low 
voice the gospel hymn, Shall we gather at the river? 
Eager heads were raised around us to listen more in 
tently, while bass and tenor voices, weak and tremu 
lous, came in on the chorus, 

Yes, we ll gather at the river, 
The beautiful, the beautiful river; 
Gather with the saints at the river 
That flows by the throne of God. 

" When the song was ended, I looked into the face 
of the boy for he was not over twenty and asked, 
* Shall you be there ? 

" Yes, I ll be there, through what the Lord Jesus 
has done for me ? he answered, with his blue eyes 
shining, while a light that never was on sea or land 
irradiated his face. The tears gathered in my eyes as 
I thought of the mother, in her far-off Scottish home, 
watching and waiting for tidings of her soldier boy, 
who was breathing away his life in an Egyptian hos 
pital. 

" Come again, lady, come again/ I heard on all 



Of the Gospel Hymns 121 

sides as we left the barracks. I shall go ; but I shall 
riot find my Scottish laddie, for by to-morrow s reveille 
he will have crossed the river." 



Beautiful Valley of Eden 

Words by the Rev. W. O. Gushing Music by William F. Sherwin 

"Beautiful valley of Eden! 
Sweet is thy noon-tide calm." 

" One day in 1875 I was reaching up for a bless 
ing," says the author of these words, "when suddenly 
there came down upon my heart a vision of the heav 
enly country. I seemed to look down upon a river 
that like a mighty tide rolled beneath me. Across, on 
the other side of this river, I saw an enchanted land ; its 
hills and valleys were sleeping in a heavenly calm. It 
was more beautiful than words can tell, and my heart 
seemed to be there. As I gazed on the scene, there 
came to my lips the words, Beautiful valley of Eden. 
The vision remained until I had written down the 
hymn ; then it gradually faded from my sight. But I 
want to say that the beauty of the hymn is largely due 
to Mr. Sherwin, who, by his rich melody, has reached 
a deeper chord than any mere words could ever have 
reached." 

Beulah Land 

Words by E. P. Stites Music by John R. Sweney 

"I ve reached the land of corn and wine, 
And all its riches freely mine." 

First sung at Ocean Grove, New Jersey, at a great 
gathering of Methodists, this hymn at once became 
very popular. It has been sung in every land where 



122 Sankey s Story 

the name of Christ is known. The secretary of the 
Young Men s Christian Association at Plymouth, Eng 
land, wrote me a beautiful story of a young lady, who 
sang it on her dying bed as she passed into the land 
that is fairer than day. 

I sang this favorite song over the dead body of my 
friend, Mr. Sweney, at the church of which he was a 
leading member, in West Chester, Pennsylvania, on 
the day of his burial. 



Blessed Assurance 

Words by Fanny J. Crosby Music by Mrs. Joseph F. Knapp 

"Blessed assurance, Jesus is mine! 
O, what a foretaste of glory divine!" 

" During the recent war in the Transvaal," said a 
gentleman at my meeting in Exeter Hall, London, in 
1900, " when the soldiers going to the front were pass 
ing another body of soldiers whom they recognized, 
their greetings used to be, Four-nine-four, boys ; four- 
nine-four; and the salute would invariably be an 
swered with Six further on, boys ; six further on/ 
The significance of this was that, in Sacred Songs 
and Solos, a number of copies of the small edition of 
which had been sent to the front, number 494 was, 
God be with you till we meet again ; and six further 
on than 494, or number 500, was Blessed Assurance, 
Jesus is mine. " 

One of the most popular and useful of the " Gos 
pel Hymns," this was sung by a large delegation of 



Of the Gospel Hymns 123 

Christian Endeavorers on the train to Minneapolis, 
some years ago. And it was often sung at night as 
the street-cars were crowded with passengers on their 
way to the Convention Hall, greatly to the delight 
of the people of that city. 



Blest be the Tie that Binds 

Words by the Rev. John Fawcett Music by H. G. Nageli 

"Blest be the tie that binds 
Oar hearts in Christian love." 

Dr. John Fawcett was the pastor of a small church 
at Wainsgate, and was called from there to a larger 
church in London in 1772. He accepted the call and 
preached his farewell sermon. The wagons were 
loaded with his books and furniture, and all was ready 
for the departure, when his parishioners gathered 
around him, and with tears in their eyes begged of him 
to stay. His wife said, " Oh, John, John, I cannot 
bear this." " Neither can I," exclaimed the good par 
son, " and we will not go. Unload the wagons and put 
everything as it was before." His decision was hailed 
with great joy by his people, and he wrote the words 
of this hymn in commemoration of the event. This 
song, and " God be with you till we meet again," are 
the most useful farewell hymns in the world. 

w 

Mr. Moody used to tell of a Sunday-school 
teacher, to whom he had given a class of girls, who 
one day came to Mr. Moody s store much disheartened. 



124 Sankey s Story 

He had suffered from hemorrhage of the lungs, and 
his doctor had ordered him to leave Chicago. He was 
sad because he felt that he had not made a true effort 
to save his class. At Mr. Moody s proposal that they 
go to visit each of the class members, they took a 
carriage and at once began the work, the young man 
in his feebleness saying what he could to each. At a 
farewell meeting where they were all gathered, they 
endeavored to sing " Blest be the tie that binds," but 
their hearts were full and their voices failed. Every 
member of the class yielded her heart to God. 

Calling Now 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by P. P. Bliss 

"This loving Saviour stands patiently; 
Tho oft rejected, calls again for thee." 

A song somewhat similar to this I remember sing 
ing as a solo in Mr. Moody s Tabernacle in Chicago 
at the close of an evangelistic meeting in 1872. Mr. 
Bliss came in late and stood just inside the door, listen 
ing. At the close of the meeting he came up to the 
platform and spoke enthusiastically about the piece, 
and remarked that he also would try to write a hymn 
on "The Prodigal." Not long afterward I heard him 
sing this beautiful hymn, which he himself entitled 
" Calling Now." It has been especially useful in 
inquiry-meetings and at the close of evangelistic ad 
dresses. I have often heard it sung with great effect 
very softly by a choir, while the workers were speaking 
to the anxious ones and its soft, sweet, pleading tones 
were always blessed to the hearers. 



Of the Gospel Hymns 125 

"Come" 

Words by Mrs. James G. Johnson Music by James McGranahan 

" O word of words the sweetest, 
O word, in which there lie " 

As these words were sung at one of our meetings 
in Baltimore, a man arose and left the building, declar 
ing that he had never heard such twaddle in all his life. 
When he reached home he tore the hymn out of his 
hymn-book and threw it into the fire ; but he said after 
ward that the words still rang in his heart and that he 
could not get rid of them. At last he came to Mr. 
Moody and said : " I am a vile sinner, and I want you 
to tell me how I can come to Jesus and be saved." 
Moody was enabled to lead him into the light, and the 
man afterward declared that this was the sweetest 
hymn in all the book. 

Come Believing 

Words by D. W. Whittle (" El. Nathan ") Music by James McGranahaa 

" Once again the Gospel message 
From the Saviour you have heard." 

A lawyer from the West sank so low as to become 
a tramp in the streets of New York. He was fifty- 
four years old and a homeless, penniless wretch. As 
he stumbled by the Florence Mission one night the 
windows were open and he stopped a moment to listen 
to the singing. They sang : 

"Once again the Gospel message 
From the Saviour you have heard; 
Will you heed the invitation? 
Will you turn and seek the Lord?" 



126 Sankeys Story 

It came like the voice of God to him. His early 
training had been Christian, and he thought he would 
go in. He did so, and as he took his seat they were 
singing the second verse : 

"Many summers you have wasted, 

Ripened harvests you have seen; 
Winter snows by spring have melted, 

Yet you linger in your sin." 

He realized that this was a truthful picture of his 
own life, and listened to the third verse, ending: 

" While the Spirit now is striving, 
Yield, and seek the Saviour s side." 

Deeply convicted, he jumped to his feet and said, " I 
will yield, I will seek the Saviour s side." He was 
converted, and attended the meetings regularly. He 
secured good employment, wrote to his family, and 
becoming reconciled to his wife and children, he re 
turned West to the old home, where he lived as an 
earnest Christian. 



Come, Great Deliverer, Come 

Words by Fanny J. Crosby Music by W. H. Doane 

"O hear my cry, be gracious now to me, 
Come, Great Deliv rer, come." 

" A short time ago, about twelve o clock one frosty 
Saturday night, when the keen winter wind was driving 
all indoors who had a home, a poor woman, in utter 
misery and despair, was pacing up and down along the 
Thames," writes a friend in England. " She had wan 
dered into a mission hall during the evening and had 



Of the Gospel Hymns 127 

restlessly come out, carrying no remembrance of any 
thing that had been said ; but these lines from a hymn 
still sounded in her ears : 

Tve wandered far away o er mountains cold. 
I ve wandered far away from home; 
O take me now, and bring me to Thy fold, 
Come, Great Deliv rer, come/ 

" She cried aloud : But there is no deliverer for 
me/ Very soon she was met by some Christian work 
ers, who were spending the night in seeking to gather 
in such outcasts as she. They took her to a home. The 
human tenderness revealed to her the divine love. If 
strangers had thus received her and cared for her, 
would not her Heavenly Father, whose love she had 
heard of, take her? Thus she was led to the feet of 
Jesus, and to find that her sins were many and all for 
given. She said : Things since then have been up 
and down with me, but I have never lost the peace I 
found that morning. 

Come, Sinner, Come 

Words by the Rev. W. E. Witter Music by H. R. Palmef 

"While Jesus whispers to you, 
Come, sinner, come." 

Mr. Witter has said regarding this hymn : "I may 
say that the origin of While Jesus whispers to you is 
forever linked with some of the most sacred experi 
ences of my life. I see the old farmhouse in New York 
State, overlooking the beautiful Wyoming Valley, and 
those Western hills, which to my childhood eyes were 
the rim of the world. It was in the summer of 1877 
and I was home from college to nurse my sainted 



128 Sankeys Story 

mother through her last illness, and at the same time 
I was teaching a term in school. The biography of 
P. P. Bliss was in our home, and his sweet songs were 
running through my mind from morn till evening. I 
prayed that even I might be inspired to write such 
hymns as would touch hard hearts and lead them to 
Christ. One Saturday afternoon, while bunching the 
hay which had been mown along the roadside, the 
words of this little hymn seemed to sing themselves 
into my soul, and with music almost identical with that 
to which they were later set by the sweet singer, 
Palmer. I hastened to the house and, running upstairs, 
knelt beside the bed of a brother, for whose salvation 
my mother was in constant prayer. There, upon my 
knees, I transcribed the words to paper, with a strange 
consciousness that they were God-given and that God 
would use them." 

And God has used them, for this hymn has been 
found very helpful as an invitation at revival meetings. 

Come, Thou Fount 

Words by the Rev. R. Robinson Music by John Wyetk 

"Come thou Fount of ev ry blessing 
Tune my heart to sing Thy grace." 

The author of this hymn, born in 1735, was of 
lowly parentage. At the age of fourteen his widowed 
mother sent him to London to learn the trade of barber 
and hair-dresser. His master found him more given 
to reading than to his profession. While in London 
he attended meetings held by the great evangelist, 
George Whitefield, became converted, and began to 
study for the ministry. In the latter part of his life 



Of the Gospel Hymns 129 

Mr. Robinson often indulged in frivolous habits. But 
on one occasion, while traveling in a stage-coach, he 
encountered a lady who soon compelled him to admit 
his acquaintance with religion. She had just been 
reading this hymn, and she asked his opinion of it, after 
having told him of the blessings it had brought to her 
heart. He avoided the subject and turned her atten 
tion to some other topic; but the lady, who did not 
know to whom she was talking, soon returned to the 
hymn, expressing her strong admiration for its senti 
ments. Agitated beyond the power of controlling his 
emotion, Robinson broke out : 

" Madam, I am the poor, unhappy man who com 
posed that hymn many years ago, and I would give a 
thousand worlds, if I had them, to enjoy the feelings I 
had then." 

Come to the Saviour 

Words by George F. Root Music by George F. Root 

"Come to the Saviour, make no delay; 
Here in His word He s shown us the way." 

" In 1879 I was assisting in revival meetings in 
Danville, California," writes the pastor of a Presby 
terian Church at Oakland. " The meetings were well 
attended and good interest was exhibited, but for a 
long time there were no conversions. In the neighbor 
hood there was a man who, with his wife and children, 
attended the church regularly, and he was one of its 
liberal supporters. They were most excellent people, but 
could not be induced to profess Christ, and did not call 
themselves Christians. One day, while the men were 
holding services in the church the women were having 



130 Sankey s Story 

a prayer-meeting in the manse near by. In the course 
of the meeting they sang, Come to the Saviour, make 
no delay/ The singing over, they were about to en 
gage in prayer, when the lady above referred to asked 
them to sing the last verse of this hymn. They sang : 

Think once again, He s with us to-day; 
Heed now His blest commands, and obey; 
Hear now His accents tenderly say, 
Will you, my children, come? 

"The lady was greatly affected and when the 
singing ceased she said with deep emotion : Yes, I 
will come; I have been very stubborn, but I will not 
stay away any longer. The women were all deeply 
moved, and prayed and praised God with warm hearts. 
When the word reached the men they were greatly 
encouraged at the good news. A revival followed, 
and at the close of a touching service a few days later, 
when a call was made for persons who desired to unite 
with the church, this lady and her husband were the 
first to respond. They were followed by some of their 
own children and many other persons in all twenty- 
one. This hymn seemed to have been the means of 
reaching the wife s heart, and of opening the way for 
the blessing which followed." 

Come Unto Me 

Words by Nathaniel Norton Music by George C. Stebbins 

" Come unto Me! it is the Saviour s voice 
The Lord of life, who bids thy heart rejoice." 

A man of culture and of extensive reading had 
given a good deal of thought to the subject of Chris 
tianity, but had never acknowledged himself a Chris- 



Of the Gospel Hymns 131 

tian until one evening at the close of an after-meeting 
in services conducted by Dr. George F. Pentecost in his 
own church in Brooklyn. Then he arose and made a 
public confession of Christ as his Saviour. That 
night, on his return home, he sat down and wrote the 
words of this hymn. The next day they were handed 
to Mr. Stebbins, who was then assisting Dr. Pentecost. 
Very soon afterward the hymn was sung in the meet 
ings that were still in progress. It at once met with 
general favor, and for many years was used as a special 
song of invitation in our meetings, as well as by other 
evangelists in theirs. 



Come Unto Me, and Rest 

Words by D. W. Whittle (" El. Nathan ") Music by James McGranaha. 

"Brother, art thou worn and weary, 
Tempted, tried, and sore oppress d?" 

"On a cold night in the fall of 1885, a scantily clad 
man wandered into Bleecker Street," writes a New 
York evangelist, under whose personal observation the 
incident came. "He was foot-sore and weary with 
much wandering, worn out for want of sleep, and faint 
from lack of food. The long, cold night was before 
him, and he knew he must walk the street till morning. 
He stepped into a doorway for a little rest. As he 
sat there he fell to pondering. He was solitary and 
sad-hearted. Drink had wrought fearful havoc with 
him, and had left him a homeless, friendless man. 
Home and loved ones, friends, money and position had 
all been sacrificed to this appetite. He felt that he 
was lost, and that no effort could save him. As he 



132 Sankey s Story 

thus mused his reverie was broken by the sound of 
song. Surprised, he looked up in the direction from 
which the sound came, and saw across the way an illu 
minated sign on which were the words, Florence Mis 
sion. Glad to get away from the chill and gloom of 
the street, he went into the mission. As he entered a 
lady was singing : 

Brother, art thou worn and weary, 
Tempted, tried, and sore oppress d? 

Listen to the word of Jesus, 
Come unto me, and rest! 

"If there was one thing on earth that the man 
needed it was rest. Rest for the tired, famished body ; 
rest for the tortured heart. These things are not for 
me, he thought ; I am too far gone. He wandered 
the cold streets till morning, but never once did the 
words of this hymn leave him. The refrain constantly 
rang in his ears, Come unto me and rest. He visited 
the mission many nights, and finally gave his heart to 
God." 

The evangelist adds that this man has been his 
assistant for many years, and has won hundreds to 
Christ. 



Consecration 

Words by Frances R. Havergal Music by W. A. Mozart. Arr. by H. P. Main 

"Take my life, and let it be 
Consecrated, Lord, to Thee." 

One of the finest consecration hymns in the 
world, this is a great favorite of the Christian Endeavor 
Society. Miss Havergal told me of its origin, while 



Of the Gospel Hymns 133 

we were seated in her home in South Wales. She 
had gone to London for a visit of five days. There 
were ten persons in the family she visited, most of 
them unconverted. She prayed to God to give her all 
in the house, and before leaving everyone had received 
a blessing. The last night of her visit, after she had 
retired, the governess told her that the two daughters 
wished to see her. They were much troubled over 
their spiritual condition and were weeping, but Miss 
Havergal was able to show them the way of life, and 
they were both joyfully converted that night. She was 
too happy to sleep, she said, but spent most of the night 
in praise and renewal of her own consecration ; and 
that night the words of this hymn formed themselves 
in her mind. In 1879, shortly before her death, I gave 
a number of Bible-readings in Miss Havergal s home, 
when she told me the very interesting story of her life. 
A few years later I met Miss Havergal s sister 
again under somewhat amusing conditions. I was 
traveling in Switzerland. While looking through a 
large music establishment I found quite a number of 
music boxes, which played several of the "Moody and 
Sankey " hymns. I asked the proprietor if these boxes 
had much of a sale. He said they had, though he did 
not think much of the tunes they played. Beside me 
was standing a lady, also looking at the music boxes. 
She proved to be Miss Havergal s sister. As she 
turned around and saw me, she threw up her hands and 
said in a clear voice, " Oh, Mr. Sankey, is that you ? " 
The proprietor proceeded to make profound apologies 
and, selecting one of his best boxes, he presented it 
to me. 



134 Sankey s Story 

Dare to be a Daniel 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by P. P. Bliss 

"Standing by a purpose true, 
Heeding God s command." 

Mr. Bliss wrote this song especially for his 
Sunday-school class in the First Congregational 
Church of Chicago. It has been much admired and 
was often used by me in connection with Mr. Moody s 
lecture on Daniel. This hymn and " Hold the Fort " 
were prohibited by the Sultan from use in Turkey. 

Dark is the Night 

Words by Fanny J. Crosby Music by T. E. Perkins 

" Dark is the night, and cold the wind is blowing, 
Nearer and nearer comes the breakers roar;" 

When I was chorister in Mr. Moody s Sunday- 
school, on the north side of Chicago, we frequently 
used this hymn. On the memorable Sunday night 
when the city was destroyed by fire, and I had made 
my escape in a small boat out into Lake Michigan, this 
song came to my mind, and as I sat there watching 
the city burn I sang : 

"Dark is the night, and cold the wind is blowing, 
Nearer and nearer comes the breakers roar; 
Where shall I go, or whither fly for refuge? 
Hide me, my Father, till the storm is o er." 

Depth of Mercy 

Words by Charles Wesley Music arr. from J. Stevenson 

"Depth of mercy! can there be 
Mercy still reserved for me?" 

An actress in a town in England, while passing 
along the street, heard singing in a house. Out of 
curiosity she looked in through the open door and saw 



Of the Gospel Hymns 135 

a number of people sitting together singing this hymn. 
She listened to the song, and afterwards to a simple 
but earnest prayer. When she went away the hymn 
had so impressed her that she procured a copy of a 
book containing it. Reading and re-reading the hymn 
led her to give her heart to God and to resolve to leave 
the stage. The manager of the theater pleaded with 
her to continue to take the leading part in a play which 
she had made famous in other cities, and finally he per 
suaded her to appear at the theater. As the curtain 
rose the orchestra began to play the accompaniment 
to the song which she was expected to sing. She 
stood like one lost in thought, and the band, supposing 
her embarrassed, played the prelude over a second 
and a third time. Then with clasped hands she step 
ped forward and sang with deep emotion : 

"Depth of mercy, can there be 
Mercy still reserved for me?" 

This put a sudden stop to the performance; not 
a few were impressed, though many scoffed. The 
change in her life was as permanent as it was singular. 
Soon after she became the wife of a minister of the 
Gospel. 



First published in " Hymns and Sacred Poems " 
in 1740, this hymn has been set to a number of tunes. 
But the most popular one in America is the melody 
arranged from Stevenson, with the chorus, "God is 
love ! I know, I feel ; Jesus lives and loves me still." 



136 Sankey s Story 

Doxology 

Words by Thomas Ken, 1695 Music by Wilhelm Frank 

"Praise God, from whom all blessings flow." 
Praise Him, all creatures here below." 

On the night of October 15, 1884, a great crowd 
was gathered on the street outside a Republican head 
quarters in New York City, awaiting the returns of an 
important election. It was two o clock in the morn 
ing before the last bulletin was posted. Previous to 
this announcement a thousand voices had been singing 
uproariously, "We won t go home till morning;" but 
the moment the message was displayed the stereopti- 
con flashed out the line, " Praise God, from whom all 
blessings flow. Good night." The Tribune, in re 
porting the incident, said : "A deep-voiced man in the 
throng pitched the doxology, and a mighty volume 
of song swelled upward. Then the lights went out and 
the happy watchers departed to their homes." 

A child on the top of Mount Washington was with 
her father above the clouds, while a thunder-storm 
flashed and rumbled below. Where they stood all was 
perfect calm and sunshine, though the eye found noth 
ing but the blue of heaven and a few rocks to rest on. 
* Well, Lucy," said her father, " there is nothing to be 
seen here, is there ?" But the child exclaimed : " Oh, 
papa, I see the doxology ! All around seems to say, 

Praise God, from whom all blessings flow; 
Praise Him, all creatures here below; 
Praise Him above, ye heavenly host; 
Praise Father, Son, and Holy Ghost/" 



Of the Gospel Hymns 137 

The doxology was a great solace to the starving 
" boys in blue " in Libby prison. Day after day they 
saw some of their comrades passing away, while fresh, 
living recruits for the grave arrived. Late one night 
they heard through the stillness and the darkness the 
tramp of new arrivals, who were stopped outside the 
prison door until arrangement could be made for them 
within. In the company was a young Baptist minister, 
whose heart almost fainted as he looked on those cold 
walls and thought of the suffering inside. Tired and 
weary, he sat down, put his face in his hands and wept. 
Just then a lone voice of deep, sweet pathos, sang from 
an upper window : 

" Praise God, from whom all blessings flow;" 

a dozen more voices joined in the second line ; and so 
on till the prison was all alive and seemed to quiver 
with the sacred song. As the song died away in the 
stillness of the night, the young man arose and said : 

"Prisons would palaces prove, 
If Jesus would dwell with me there." 



This doxology has been almost universally 
adopted as a praise hymn by all churches. Wilhelm 
Frank, the composer of the tune, "Old Hundred," was 

a German. 

t*t 

The first Moody and Sankey meeting held in the 
Agricultural Hall, London, was opened by the singing 
of " Praise God, from whom all blessings flow." 



138 Sankey s Story 

Eternity 

Words by Ellen M. H. Gates Music by P. P. Blis 

"Oh, the clanging bells of Time! 
Night and day they never cease." 

Having carried in my pocket for several months 
the words of the hymn "Eternity/ which the author, 
Ellen M. H. Gates, had sent me, I handed them, one 
day in Chicago in 1876, to my friend P. P. Bliss, ask 
ing him to write music for them. Three days later he 
had composed the tune. 

The hymn was much used at our meetings both in 
Great Britain and the United States. Before singing 
it, I used to tell the story of Robert Annan, of Dundee, 
Scotland. He was one of the worst men who ever 
lived in that town, but after having been converted 
became one of the most useful missionaries of the 
place. On leaving his little cottage home one morning 
to go to his mission work, he took a piece of chalk from 
his pocket and wrote on the flagstone of the walk 
which led to his house the single word " Eternity." 
A few minutes later he saw a child fall from one of the 
vessels in the harbor. Being a bold, strong swimmer, 
he threw off his coat and shoes, and plunged into the 
bay. He saved the child, but at the cost of his own 
life. His body was carried home over the word 
"Eternity," which he had written a few hours before. 
On my last visit to Scotland, about five years ago, I 
went to see his widow, and found that the writing had 
been cut in the stone by direction of the Honorable 
James Gordon, the Earl of Aberdeen. Thousands go 
to see it every year. Mr. Annan s minister took me 






Of the Gospel Hymns 139 

to the beautiful cemetery of the place, where a fine 
monument, ten feet high, marks the last resting-place 
of the hero. 

AM 

A worker in the English Village Mission writes : 
* I had been engaged during the previous week with 
a lot of indifferent people in a midland village without 
the smallest token of blessing, and on that memorable 
Sunday night of the Tay Bridge disaster I went to the 
service with a sad heart. The service was a solemn 
one, and at the close we sang : 

Oh, the clanging bells of Time! 
Night and day they never cease. 

"The song touched the hearts of the people. About 
this time, as we afterwards learned, a number of con 
versions occurred, and a blessing has rested on that 
place for many years. One of the converts has been 
a very successful missionary in a large northern city. 
I can scarcely remember any place where some one or 
more of your songs and solos was not used of God in 
blessing souls. In one church alone I received one 
hundred and fifty into fellowship, and I think not less 
than one-third of that number, when making applica 
tion for membership, mentioned some particular hymn 
that had led them to decision." 

Evening Prayer 

Words by J. Edmeston Music by George C. Stebbins 

"Saviour, breathe an evening blessing, 
Ere repose our spirits seal." 

It rarely falls to the lot of any hymn to be sung 
under such trying circumstances as was this, during the 
Boxer outbreak in China, by a company of beleaguered 



140 Sankey s Story 

missionaries who had gathered together one night in 
great fear lest they should have to suffer the fate of so 
many who were giving up their lives rather than deny 
their Lord. The following account of the singing is 
furnished by Miss Helen Knox Strain, one of the mis 
sionaries present that night. 

" The Woman s Union Missionary Society has a 
magnificent work just outside of the city of Shanghai. 
No harm had come to us up to this time, but serious 
threats and unpleasant rumors were rife ; we dared not 
so much as put our heads out at night, though forty 
little soldier-men played at keeping us safe. Our mis 
sionaries have two centers at that place, and they meet 
often for prayer and consultation. At this particular 
time the rumors were so frightful, and the threats to 
burn our homes that very night so distressing, that we 
had a memorable meeting. Separated from home and 
friends, facing death in a far-off land, and full of ten- 
derest feelings, we lifted our hearts in song. 

" Though destruction walk around us, 

Though the arrows past us fly; 
Angel guards from Thee surround us: 
We are safe if Thou art nigh. 

" Out of the storm each soul, renewing its 
strength, mounted up with wings as eagles and found 
peace in the secret of His presence. 

" Our Saviour breathed, in very deed, an evening 
blessing upon us, the fragrance of which remains 
even unto this day. The last verse of the hymn, 
1 Should swift death this night o ertake us/ was omit 
ted. It seemed too probable that it might. We 



Of the Gospel Hymns 141 

wanted only to think of the safe-keeping, and such, 
thank God, it proved to be." 

t+f 

Edmeston, a voluminous hymn-writer, was an 
architect by profession, and a member of the Estab 
lished Church at Homerton, England, where he re 
sided. The theme of this hymn was suggested to 
him by a sentence in a volume of Abyssinian travels 
" At night their short evening hymn, Jesus Forgive 
Us/ stole through the camp." Though first appear 
ing in the author s " Sacred Lyrics " in 1820, and to 
be found in the older church hymnals, it had no spe 
cial prominence until Mr. Stebbins setting became 
known. Since then it has come into general use, and 
has been adopted by many of the church hymnals. 
The music was written in 1876, for the choir of Tre- 
mont Temple, Boston, of which Mr. Stebbins was 
then the director. Published two years later in " Gos 
pel Hymns Number 3," it became a favorite at once 
with the great choirs of our meetings and with other 
evangelistic choirs, and has since then been used 
wherever the " Gospel Hymns " are sung, even in the 
remote places of the earth. 

Even Me 

Words by Mrs. Elizabeth Codner Music by William B. Bradbury 

"Lord, I hear of showers of blessing 
Thou art scattering full and free." 

A gentleman in England sends this incident : " A 
poor woman, in a dark village, attended a High Church 
mission, where the good Gospel hymn, Even Me 
was sung from a printed leaflet. A few days after- 



142 Sankeys Story 

ward the old woman became seriously ill, and soon she 
died. But she seemed to have taken in all the Gospel 
through this hymn, and to the last repeated with rever 
ence and joy Even me, even me/ not remembering 
one word of the sermon that she heard at the mission. 
This was in 1877. Soon after we had an evangelistic 
meeting in the same village, in a barn three hundred 
years old, where this hymn was sung with great effect." 

Follow On 

Words by W. O. Gushing Music by Robert Lowry 

"Down in the valley with my Saviour I would go 
Where the flowers are blooming and the sweet waters flow." 

" I wrote this hymn in 1878," the Rev. W. O. 
Gushing tells me. " Longing to give up all for Christ 
who had given his life for me, I wanted to be willing 
to lay everything at his feet, with no wish but to do his 
will, to live henceforth only for his glory. Out of this 
feeling came the hymn, Follow On. It was written 
with the prayer and the hope that some heart might 
by it be led to give up all for Christ. Much of the 
power and usefulness of the hymn, however, are due 
to Mr. Lowry, who put it into song." 

Go Bury Thy Sorrow 

Words by Mary A. Bachelor Music by P. P. Bliss 

"Go bury thy sorrow, 
The world hath its share." 

For many years this hymn was one of my favorite 
solos. In its original form it read, " Bury thy sorrow, 
hide it with care;" but when Mr. Bliss found it in a 



Of the Gospel Hymns 143 

newspaper he arranged it to read, "Go bury thy sor 
row, the world hath its share," and set it to music. It 
has been blessed to thousands of people, and will remain 
as one of his best productions when many of his other 
songs are forgotten. 



The author of the hymn was the daughter of a 
minister. When she wrote these lines she was living 
with her brother, whom she greatly loved. He also 
was a minister, and had the usual cares and burdens to 
carry that are incident to a pastor s life. To him she 
confided all her joys and sorrows. One day, after hav 
ing disclosed to him some peculiar trial which she was 
enduring, she was reproached by her conscience for 
having needlessly added to his already numerous cares. 
She stood by the open window, and saw the long, heavy 
shadows cast by the tall poplar trees across the lawn, 
and the thought came to her : 

" That is just what I have done to my brother ! 
Why did I do it ? Why did I not rather bury my own 
sorrow, and allow only words of cheer and brightness 
to reach his ears ? " 

With such thoughts in her mind, and with tears of 
regret filling her eyes, she retired to her little attic 
bedroom, and there wrote the hymn that has been so 

blessed. 

f** 

A lady who had suffered much, and had passed 
through many great trials, set much store by this hymn. 
One day as she sang it her little daughter, who was 
playing in the room, looked up into her mother s face 



144 Sankey s Story 

and saw tears rolling down her cheeks. The child 
called out : 

" Mamma, are you digging the sorrows all up 
again ? " 

God Be With You 

Words by J. E. Rankin, D.D. Music by W. G. Tomer 

"God be with you till we meet again; 
By His counsels guide, uphold you." 

The late Dr. Rankin, president of Howard Uni 
versity, Washington, D. C., said regarding this oft- 
used parting hymn : " Written in 1882 as a Christian 
good-bye, it was called forth by no person or occasion, 
but was deliberately composed as a Christian hymn 
on the basis of the etymology of good-bye/ which is 
God be with you/ The first stanza was written and 
sent to two composers one of unusual note, the other 
wholly unknown and not thoroughly educated in 
music. I selected the composition of the latter, sub 
mitted it to J. W. Bischoff the musical director of a 
little book we were preparing who approved of it, 
but made some criticisms, which were adopted. It 
was sung for the first time one evening in the First 
Congregational Church in Washington, of which I was 
then the pastor and Mr. Bischoff the organist. I at 
tributed its popularity in no little Dart to the music 
to which it was set. It was a wedding of words and 
music, at which it was my function to preside ; but Mr. 
Tomer should have his full share of the family honor." 

William Gould Tomer, the author of the music, 
is of German ancestry. He has been a school teacher, 



Of the Gospel Hymns 145 

a soldier in the civil war, and a clerk in the Treasury 
department. He was teaching school in 1882 when 
he wrote the music of " God be with you." 

Hallelujah, tis Done ! 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by P. P. Bliss 

" Tis the promise of God full salvation to give, 
Unto him who on Jesus, his Son, will believe." 

A minister from England, in telling of a certain 
meeting, says : " Among the converts was a man some 
what advanced in years, who was very anxious about 
the salvation of his wife, and expressed a wish that I 
should visit her. I did so repeatedly, and explained 
to her in very simple words the plan of salvation, but 
she could not comprehend the meaning of my message. 
Every time I left, however, she would express a strong 
desire that I return. One day I went in just before 
dinner, and talked to her about Jesus, but no light 
seemed to dawn upon her mind. Then the thought 
struck me to sing something to her, and so I com 
menced, Tis the promise of God, full salvation to 
give/ When I was through the chorus, she exclaimed, 
Sing it over again/ I did so, time after time, and 
when I asked her to assist me, she joined in very 
heartily. The light dawned on her dark mind while 
we were singing, the big burden of sin was removed 
from her heart, and her face was lighted up with holy 
joy as she exclaimed, Hallelujah, tis done ! I do 
believe in the Son ; I am saved/ Just then her hus 
band walked in for his dinner, and she shouted out to 
him, Ah, lad! I ve got it! Hallelujah! tis done! 1 



LIBRARY 
KNOX COLLEGE 

TORONTO 



146 Sankey s Story 

Their hearts were full of joy over the wonderful dis 
covery she had made, and I was grateful to God for a 
sinner brought to Christ by the ministry of holy song." 

*M* 

In compiling his book, " Gospel Songs," in 1874, 
Mr. Bliss desired to publish in it the well-known hymn, 
"Hallelujah! Thine the Glory," then much used in 
religious services. The owners of the copyright re 
fused, and he wrote "Hallelujah, tis done," both 
words and music, to supply the want. Hundreds of 
souls have been led to decide for Christ by this hymn, 
and the church has reason to rejoice at that refusal. 



Hallelujah, what a Saviour 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by P. P. Bliss 

" Man of Sorrows, what a name 
For the Son of God, who came." 

Written in 1876, shortly before his death, this was 
the last hymn I heard Mr. Bliss sing. It was at a 
meeting in Farwell Hall in Chicago, conducted by 
Henry Moorehouse. A few weeks before his death 
Mr. Bliss visited the State prison at Jackson, Michigan, 
where, after a very touching address on " The Man 
of Sorrows," he sang this hymn with great effect. 
Many of the prisoners dated their conversion from 
that day. 

When Mr. Moody and I were in Paris, holding 
meetings in the old church which Napoleon had 
granted to the Evangelicals, I frequently sang this 
hymn as a solo, asking the congregation to join in the 



Of the Gospel Hymns 147 

single phrase, " Hallelujah, what a Saviour," which 
they did with splendid effect. It is said that the word 
" Hallelujah " is the same in all languages. It seems 
as though God had prepared it for the great jubilee of 
heaven, when all his children shall have been gathered 
home to sing " Hallelujah to the Lamb ! " 

He Knows 

Words by Maiy G. Brainard Music by P. P. Bliss 

" I know not what awaits me, 
God kindly veils mine eyes." 

Mr. Bliss lost his life in the terrible railroad wreck 
at Ashtabula, Ohio. His trunk, however, reached Chi 
cago safely, as it had gone before by another train. 
In his trunk was discovered this hymn. Mr. Bliss had 
rearranged the words of the poem to some extent, and 
had composed the tune. Sentence by sentence, the 
words are full of pathetic interest in connection with 
the author s sudden death so soon afterward. 

He Leadeth Me 

Words by Joseph H. Gilmore Music by William B. Bradbury 

" He leadeth me! O, blessed thought! 
O, words with heavenly comfort fraught." 

" I had been talking," said Mr. Gilmore, " at the 
Wednesday evening lecture of the First Baptist Church 
of Philadelphia, in 1862. The Twenty-third Psalm was 
my theme, and I had been especially impressed with the 
blessedness of being led by God of the mere fact of his 
leadership, altogether apart from the way in which he 



148 Sankey s Story 

leads us and what he is leading us to. At the close of 
the service we adjourned to Deacon Watson s home, 
at which I was stopping. We still held before our 
minds and hearts the thought which I had just empha 
sized. During the conversation, in which several par 
ticipated, the blessedness of God s leadership so grew 
upon me that I took out my pencil, wrote the hymn just 
as it stands to-day, handed it to my wife and thought 
no more about it. She sent it without my knowledge 
to The Watchman and Reflector/ and there it first 
appeared in print. Three years later I went to Roches 
ter to preach for the Second Baptist Church. On enter 
ing the chapel I took up a hymn-book, thinking, I 
wonder what they sing/ The book opened at He 
leadeth me/ and that was the first time I knew my 
hymn had found a place among the songs of the 
church. I shall never forget the impression made upon 
me by coming then and there in contact with my own 
assertion of God s leadership." 

Mr. Bradbury, finding the hymn in a Christian 
periodical, composed for it the very appropriate tune 
with which it has ever since been associated. 

Here am I, Send Me 

Words by Daniel March Mutfc by S. M. Granni* 

"Hark! the voice of Jesus crying, 
Who will go and work to-day? " 

I found this poem in a newspaper and set the 
words to a tune by S. M. Grannis entitled " Your Mis 
sion " a hymn which was sung in the Senate Cham 
ber in Washington by Philip Phillips on one occasion 



Of the Gospel Hymns 149 

when Abraham Lincoln was present. The President 
was so charmed with the song that he requested that 
it be repeated. 

Hiding in Thee 

Words by William O. Gushing Music by Ira D. Sankey 

"O safe to the Rock that is higher than I, 
My soul in its conflicts and sorrows would fly." 

" Hiding in Thee was written in Moravia, New 
York, in 1876," writes Mr. Gushing. " It must be said 
of this hymn that it was the outgrowth of many tears, 
many heart-conflicts and soul-yearnings, of which the 
world can know nothing. The history of many battles 
is behind it. But the occasion which gave it being 
was the call of Mr. Sankey. He said : Send me some 
thing new to help me in my Gospel work/ A call from 
such a source, and for such a purpose, seemed a call 
from God. I so regarded it, and prayed : Lord, give 
me something that may glorify Thee. It was while 
thus waiting that Hiding in Thee pressed to make 
itself known. Mr. Sankey called forth the tune, and 
by his genius gave the hymn wings, making it useful 
in the Master s work." - 

Ho ! Reapers of Life s Harvest 

Words by I. B. Woodbury Music by I. B. Woodbury 

"Ho! reapers of life s harvest, 
Why stand with rusted blade?" 

President Garfield was fond of this hymn, and it 
was sung at his funeral. In addressing an audience of 



150 Sankey s Story 

young people on one occasion, Garfield said, in sub 
stance, regarding his own conversion : 

" Make the most of the present moment. No 
occasion is unworthy of our best efforts. God often 
uses humble occasions and little things to shape the 
course of a man s life. I might say that the wearing 
of a certain pair of stockings led to a complete change 
in my life. I had made a trip as a boy on a canal boat 
and was expecting to leave home for another trip ; but 
I accidentally injured my foot in chopping wood. The 
blue dye in my home-made socks poisoned the wound 
and I was kept at home. A revival broke out mean 
while in the neighborhood, and I was thus kept within 
its influence and was converted. New desires and new 
purposes then took possession of me, and I was de 
termined to seek an education in order that I might 
live more usefully for Christ." 

It is said that this hymn has been the means of 
the conversion of thousands of souls in Australia and 
Great Britain. 

Hold the Fort 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by P. P. Blisa 

"Ho! my comrades, see the signal 
Waving in the sky!" 

Just before Sherman began his famous march to 
the sea in 1864, and while his army lay camped in the 
neighborhood of Atlanta on the 5th of October, the 
army of Hood, in a carefully prepared movement, 
passed the right flank of Sherman s army, gained his 
rear, and commenced the destruction of the railroad 



Of the Gospel Hymns 151 

leading north, burning blockhouses and capturing the 
small garrisons along the line. Sherman s army was 
put in rapid motion pursuing Hood, to save the sup 
plies and larger posts, the principal one of which was 
located at Altoona Pass. General Corse, of Illinois, 
was stationed here with about fifteen hundred men, 
Colonel Tourtelotte being second in command. A 
million and a half of rations were stored here and it 
was highly important that the earthworks commanding 
the pass and protecting the supplies should be held. 
Six thousand men under command of General French 
were detailed by Hood to take the position. The 
works were completely surrounded and summoned to 
surrender. Corse refused and a sharp fight com 
menced. The defenders were slowly driven into a small 
fort on the crest of the hill. Many had fallen, and the 
result seemed to render a prolongation of the fight 
hopeless. At this moment an officer caught sight of 
a white signal flag far away across the valley, twenty 
miles distant, upon the top of Kenesaw Mountain. The 
signal was answered, and soon the message was waved 
across from mountain to mountain : 

" Hold the fort ; I am coming. W. T. Sherman." 
Cheers went up ; every man was nerved to a full 
appreciation of the position ; and under a murderous 
fire, which killed or wounded more than half the men 
in the fort Corse himself being shot three times 
through the head, and Tourtelotte taking command, 
though himself badly wounded they held the fort for 
three hours until the advance guard of Sherman s army 
came up. French was obliged to retreat. 

This historical incident was related by Major 



152 Sankey s Story 

Whittle at a Sunday-school meeting in Rockford, Illi 
nois, in May, 1870. Mr. Bliss was present, and the 
song " Hold the Fort " was at once born in his mind. 
The next day Whittle and Bliss held a meeting in the 
Young Men s Christian Association rooms in Chicago. 
Bliss went on the platform and wrote the chorus of 
this hymn on the blackboard. He there sang the verses 
for the first time in public, and the audience joined in 
the chorus. Soon after he had it published in sheet 
form. 

Mr. Bliss said to me once, not long before his 
death, that he hoped that he would not be known to 
posterity only as the author of " Hold the Fort," for he 
believed that he had written many better songs. How 
ever, when I attended the dedication of the Bliss monu 
ment, at Rome, Pennsylvania, I found these words 
inscribed : 

P. P. Bliss, 
Author of "Hold the Fort." 

The pine tree from which Sherman s signal was 
flown was cut down a few years after the war, and 
was made into souvenirs, I receiving a baton with 
which to lead my choirs. 

Ah 

" Hold the Fort " was used frequently in our 
meetings in Great Britain during 1873-4. Lord 
Shaftesbury said at our farewell meeting in London: 
" If Mr. Sankey has done no more than teach the peo 
ple to sing Hold the Fort, he has conferred an inesti 
mable blessing on the British empire." 

On a trip to Switzerland, in 1879, I stopped over 



Of the Gospel Hymns 153 

Sunday in London with the family of William Higgs, 
and attended morning services at the Metropolitan 
Tabernacle. While seated in a pew with Mrs. Higgs 
and three of her daughters, I was discovered by Mr. 
Spurgeon. At the conclusion of his address he sent 
one of his deacons down to the pew, inviting me to his 
private room at the rear of the pulpit. There I was 
warmly greeted by the great preacher. In the course 
of our conversation he said : " A few days ago I re 
ceived a copy of a bill pending in Parliament in relation 
to the army, with a letter from a Christian gentleman, 
a member of the parliament, asking if I couldn t preach 
a sermon on this bill. I have decided to preach that 
sermon to-night, and I want you to come and sing, 
Hold the Fort. I replied that he was not a man to 
be denied ; and although I had not expected to sing in 
public in London on this trip, I would gladly comply 
with his wish if I could have a small organ to accom 
pany myself upon. This I supposed that he would not 
have, as he did not approve of organs at public worship 
and never used one in his church ; but he replied that 
when I arrived at the meeting there would be an instru 
ment on the platform for me. In the evening, at the 
close of his address he announced that I was present 
and would sing " Hold the Fort ;" and he asked them 
all to join heartily in the chorus. An organ had been 
secured from the Students College. When the chorus 
was sung it was heard blocks away. At the conclusion 
of the service Mr. Spurgeon exclaimed : " There now, 
I think our roof will stay on after that ! " 

On reaching Switzerland I sang in many cities. 
Sailing across Lake Lucerne, and ascending the Rigi, 



154 Sankey s Story 

there I again sang " Hold the Fort," much to the in 
terest of the Swiss peasants. 

An indication of the impression this and other 
American songs made upon the people may be seen in 
the case of the two actors who came on the stage in 
one of the largest theaters in England and attempted 
to. caricature Mr. Moody and myself. The galleries 
struck up " Hold the Fort," and kept on singing the 
piece until the actors had to withdraw from the stage. 
On their reappearing, with the purpose of continuing 
the performance, the song was again started, and con 
tinued until that part of the entertainment was given 
up. I have been informed that the cabling of this inci 
dent to this country at the time it took place turned 
the attention of our countrymen more thoroughly to 
our work across the sea than all the reports previously 
sent in relation to the movement over there. 



Shortly after the evangelistic work of Henry Var- 
ley in Yorkville and Toronto, about 1875, when the 
songs in the first edition of " Gospel Hymns " were 
heard all over the land, a carpenter and his apprentice 
were working on a building in Yorkville. The man 
was a Christian and had consecrated his fine tenor voice 
to the Master s use. The boy had just given himself 
to Jesus and was also a singer for the Lord. One 
morning, as they met at the usual hour for work, the 
following dialogue took place between them: 

" Do you know who is coming here to work to 
day?" 

" No, I did not hear of anybody coming here." 



Of the Gospel Hymns 155 

" Well, there is ; and it is Tommy Dodd." 
" And who might Tommy Dodd be ? " 
" He is a painter, and the greatest drunkard and 
wife-beater in Yorkville." 

" Well, Joe, we must give him a warm reception." 
" Yes, we will sing like everything, so that he 
can t get a bad word in." 

So, when Tommy Dodd came, they struck up 
" Hold the Fort." And they kept on singing till he left 
his work and came closer to listen. He asked them 
to sing it over and over again, joining heartily in it 
himself, for Tommy was very fond of singing. This 
was followed by an invitation to the young men s 
prayer-meeting, where the Spirit led him to surrender 
to Christ. Afterward he was found at the church 
instead of the saloon, singing the sweet songs of Zion. 
Dr. R. A. Torrey, on his return from England 
recently, called on me and told me that while he and 
Mr. Alexander were holding meetings in Belfast, 
one of the most enthusiastic helpers was a typical 
Irishman, well-known as an active worker all over the 
city. " He was constantly bringing drunkards to the 
front and dealing with them," said Dr. Torrey, " and 
holding meetings in the open air all over the city. The 
story of his conversion was exceedingly interesting. 
At that time he was a prisoner in a cell in Belfast. The 
window of his cell was open. Mr. Sankey was singing 
Hold the Fort in another building. The words 
floated across through the open window into his cell 
and went home to his heart. There in his cell he ac 
cepted Christ under the influence of this hymn. I 
think he never saw Mr. Sankey in his life." 



156 Sankey s Story 

Home of the Soul 

Words by Mrs. Ellen H. Gates Music by Philip Phillips 

" I will sing you a song of that beautiful land, 
The far away home of the soul." 

" Now I saw in my dream that these two men 
[Christian and Hopeful] went in at the gate; and lo, 
as they entered, they were transfigured ; and they had 
raiment put on them that shone like gold. There were 
also those that met them with harps and crowns and 
gave them to them; the harps to praise withal, and 
the crowns in token of honor. Then I heard in my 
dream that all the bells in the city rang again for joy, 
and that it was said unto them : Enter ye into the joy 
of your Lord! . . . Now, just as the gates were 
opened to let in the men, I looked in after them, and 
behold, the city shone like the sun; the streets also 
were paved with gold ; and in them walked many men, 
with crowns on their heads and palms in their hands, 
and golden harps to sing praises withal. . . . After 
that, they shut up the gates which, when I had seen, I 
wished myself among them." Bunyan s " Pilgrim s 
Progress." 

"The above extract," wrote Philip Phillips, "I 
sent to Mrs. Ellen H. Gates, asking her to write a 
suitable hymn. When the verses were forwarded to 
me, in 1865, I seated myself in my home with my little 
boy on my knee, and with Bunyan s immortal dream- 
book in my hand, and began to read the closing scenes 
where Christian and Hopeful entered into the city, 
wondering at Bunyan s rare genius, and like the 
dreamer of old wishing myself among them. At this 



Of the Gospel Hymns 157 

moment of inspiration I turned to my organ, with pencil 
in hand, and wrote the tune. This hymn seems to 
have had God s special blessing upon it from the very 
beginning. One man writes me that he has led in the 
singing of it at a hundred and twenty funerals. It 
was sung at the funeral of my own dear boy, who had 
sat on my knee when I wrote the tune." 

And I sang this hymn over the remains of my 
beloved friend, Philip Phillips, at Fredonia, New York. 

How Firm a Foundation 

Words by G. Keith Music by M. Portogallo 

"How firm a foundation, ye saints of the Lord, 
Is laid for your faith in His excellent word." 

" Once at evening devotion in the old Oratory 
of Princeton Seminary," Dr. C. S. Robinson relates, 
" the elder Hodge, then venerable with years and piety, 
paused as he read this hymn, preparatory to the sing 
ing. In the depth of his emotion he was obliged to 
close his delivery of the final lines with a gesture of 
pathetic and adoring wonder at the matchless grace 
of God in Christ, and his hand silently beat time to the 
rhythm instead : I ll never, no, never, no, never for 
sake!" 

^ 

Giving an account of a visit to General Jackson 
at the Hermitage, in 1843, ^ e R CV - James Gallager 
says in the " Western Sketch Book :" " The old hero 
was then very frail and had the appearance of extreme 
old age ; but he was reposing with calmness and confi 
dence on the promise and covenant of God. He had 



158 Sankey s Story 

now been a member of the church for several years." 
During the conversation which took place, the General 
turned to Mr. Gallager, and remarked : 

" There is a beautiful hymn on the subject of the 
exceeding great and precious promise of God to His 
people. It was the favorite hymn of my dear wife, till 
the day of her death. It commences in this way : How 
firm a foundation, ye saints of the Lord. I wish you 
would sing it now." 

So the little company sang the entire hymn. 

I am Praying for You 

Words by S. O Maley Cluff Music by Ira D. Sankey 

"I have a Saviour, He s pleading in glory; 
A dear, loving Saviour, tho earth friends be few." 

On our first visit to Ireland, in 1874, we came 
across these words in a printed leaflet. It was the sec 
ond hymn to which I wrote music, and it was much 
used in our meetings in London. It has long been a 
favorite prayer-meeting hymn in many churches. 

&lt;%f 

At the close of a gospel service in Evanston, Illi 
nois, the minister was requested to visit a man who 
was not likely to live many days, and who was a spir 
itualist. Though pressed by other engagements, the 
minister said, " I will take time." He called, but 
thought it not best to introduce the subject of religion 
because of the patient s known hostility to evangelical 
views. Seeing a little organ in the room, the minister 
asked if he might sing a song. Consent being given, 
he sang " I have a Saviour, He s pleading in glory." 



Of the Gospel Hymns 159 

The sick man seemed pleased, and asked the min 
ister to sing it again. This he did, and then gave other 
songs. Thus he sang the truths which he had 
not the courage to mention in conversation. The 
songs evidently accomplished their work for when the 
minister called again the sick man s heart had been 
opened, and the truth had been savingly received 
through their instrumentality. 

*tt 

A gospel worker of Hunter, New York, tells of 
this experience in connection with the hymn : " While 
1 was holding revival meetings at Hensonville, New 
York, a man and his wife were converted through the 
hymn I Am Praying for You/ The song went directly 
to the heart of the wife. All the way to her home the 
first line of the hymn, I have a Saviour, He s plead 
ing in glory, kept ringing in her ears, and next morn 
ing as she awoke she heard my voice singing, I have 
a Saviour. That night she came to Jesus. Her hus 
band followed immediately after her. They had sent 
out invitations for a large dancing party at that time, 
which no doubt would have injured the meetings very 
much had it taken place ; but the dance was turned into 
a prayer-meeting. I shall never forget the night she 
stood up in a crowded church, and said, Oh, Brother 

L , your singing " I have a Saviour " brought us to 

Jesus. " 

A young man who came from Sweden writes : " I 
Am Praying for You was the first Moody and Sankey 
hymn I ever heard. It was on a cold winter night up 
in the land of the midnight sun, more than a quarter 



160 Sankey* s Story 

of a century ago. Two evangelists had come to the 
neighborhood, but found it difficult to get a place in 
which to hold their meetings. At last a poor woman 
opened for them her log house, consisting of two 
rooms. From house to house the meetings were an 
nounced. I was a small boy, and out of curiosity I 
attended the first meeting. About twenty people were 
present, seated on chairs borrowed from the neigh 
bors. At one end of the low, dark room the evangel 
ists were seated, by a small table on which two 
home-made candles were burning. After one of the 
evangelists had led in prayer, he said to the other, 
Sing one of Sankey s hymns. Upon which he sang 
this now well-known hymn, I Am Praying for You/ 
accompanying himself on a guitar. Since then I have 
heard these sweet hymns sung in many European 
countries, and in the small meeting-houses and primi 
tive homes of the settlers on the Western plains, as 
well as by choirs of hundreds and congregations of 
thousands in the larger cities of this broad land." 

I Gave My Life for Thee 

Words by Frances R. Havergal Music by P. P. Bliss 

"I gave My life for thee, 
My precious blood I shed." 

Fifteen years after this hymn was written Miss 
Havergal said about it : " Yes, I gave My life for 
thee, is mine, and perhaps it will interest you to hear 
how nearly it went into the fire instead of nearly all 
over the world. It was, I think, the very first thing 
1 wrote which could be called a hymn written when 
I was a young girl, in 1859. I did not half realize 



Of the Gospel Hymns 161 

what I was writing about. I was following very far 
off, always doubting and fearing. I think I had come 
to Jesus with a trembling faith, but it was a coming in 
the press and behind, never seeing his face or feeling 
sure that he loved me. I scribbled these words in 
a few minutes on the back of a circular, and then read 
them over and thought, Well, this is not poetry, any 
how; I won t trouble to write this out. I reached 
out my hand to put it in the fire, when a sudden im 
pulse made me draw it back, and I put it, crumpled 
and singed, in my pocket. Soon after I went to see 
a dear old woman in the almshouse. She began talk 
ing to me, as she always did, about her dear Saviour, 
and I thought I would see if she, a simple old woman, 
would care for these verses, which I felt sure nobody 
else would even care to read. I read them to her, and 
she was so delighted with them that I copied them out 
and kept them. And now the Master has sent them 
out in all directions, and I have heard of their being a 
real blessing to many." 

Miss Havergal showed the hymn some time after 
ward to her father, and he wrote a melody especially 
for it. But it is the tune which Mr. Bliss composed 
for it that became popular in America. 

I Hear Thy Welcome Voice 

Words by Lewis Hartsough Music by Lewis Hartsough 

"I hear Thy welcome voice 
That calls me, Lord, to Thee." 

The words and music of this beautiful hymn were 
first published in a monthly entitled " Guide to Holi 
ness," a copy of which was sent to me in England in 



1 62 Sankey*s Story 

1873. I immediately adopted it and had it published 
in " Sacred Songs and Solos." It proved to be one 
of the most helpful of the revival hymns, and was often 
used as an invitation hymn in England and America. 

fH? 

Shortly after this hymn was written, while it was 
being sung by a large congregation in Washington, a 
passing merchant stopped to listen. It had been 
twenty years since he had crossed the threshold of a 
church. The congregation were on their feet and 
sinners were passing to the altar for prayer. Stanza 
after stanza of this hymn was sung, with increasing 
interest. The Holy Spirit so pressed the Lord s claims 
that the merchant yielded and joined the penitents. 
He was converted and this hymn became his favorite. 
He sang it in his home, on the street, and in his store. 
It seemed a special inspiration to him. One morning, 
about two weeks after his conversion, as he started 
for his store, his wife, having accompanied him to the 
door to say good-bye, heard him joyfully begin to 
sing " I am coming, Lord, to Thee," as he reached the 
street. She listened a little while, looking after him, 
and then turned to her room. A few moments later 
the door-bell rang. She answered it in person, only 
to find that men were bearing home her husband s dead 
body. He had slipped on the icy pavement and was 
instantly killed. The memory of those last words of 
song that fell upon her ears, as he triumphantly sang 
" I am coming, Lord, to Thee," was to her a lasting 
comfort. 

mt 

" While holding meetings at Eastbourn," says an 
English evangelist, " a man by the name of David was 



Of the Gospel Hymns 163 

converted. His very wicked work-mate, whose name 
was Stephen, noticed the change in him the next day, 
and asked David what had caused it. David boldly 
confessed that he had found the Saviour at the Mis 
sion, and expressed a wish that Stephen would accom 
pany him there next Sunday to which he finally 
agreed. As we began the service on Sunday evening, 
I gave out the hymn, I hear Thy welcome Voice/ 
During the singing I noticed that the Spirit had 
touched a man who was sitting on the first form under 
the platform. After a short comment on the verses, I 
said : We will have the prayer-meeting at once/ and 
in another minute I was down by the side of Stephen 
for it was he and with my arm around his neck I 
said to him : The Lord is speaking to you, is he not ? 
" After the meeting Stephen testified that he had 
been able to knock down two men in a fight, but that 
he never was so knocked down in all his life as when 
he felt my arm around his neck. Stephen became a 
brave and true follower of Christ. He brought his 
wife to church, and though at first she had ridiculed 
her husband, she, too, soon gave heed to the welcome 



I ll Go Where Thou Would st I Should Go 

Words by Mary Brown Music by Carrie E. Rounsefell 

" It may not be on the mountain s height, 
Or over the stormy sea." 

This well-known missionary and consecration 
hymn was adopted by a class of over a hundred mis 
sionary nurses at the Battle Creek (Michigan) Sani 
tarium as their class hymn. Every Sunday afternoon 



164 Sankey s Story 

they would gather for a social meeting and always 
sing, " I ll go where Thou would st I should go, dear 
Lord," which they called " their hymn." In this class 
were students from nearly every State of the Union, 
from Australia, South Africa, South America, Bul 
garia, Armenia, and nearly all the European countries. 
At the close of the course they agreed that after they 
had parted and gone to their different fields, they 
would sing this hymn every Sunday afternoon as they 
had done during their happy class-days. 

I Love to Tell the Story 

Words by Miss Kate Hankey Music by W. G. Fischer 

"I love to tell the story 
Of unseen things above." 

" Last winter a young man appeared here from 
British Columbia," says a letter from Surrey, England. 
" He was in the Royal Marines. He was a total ab 
stainer and was doing all he could to promote temper 
ance among his comrades. While here he went to 
church, and the curate, who had a conversation with 
him, was much pleased with his manly behavior and 
resolute desire to do right. He wore a medal and had 
good-conduct marks on his clothes. This man was the 
little boy whom Miss T. had picked up in Battersea 
Park many years before, and who had learned of the 
gospel of salvation entirely by listening to the maid 
servants singing sacred songs while scrubbing door 
steps and cleaning windows. The hymn that, as a 
child, he seemed to make entirely his own was, I love 
to tell the story/ though he knew several others when 



Of the Gospel Hymns 165 

he was picked up in the park. As he had never been 
to church or chapel, the hymns were the only channel 
through which divine truth had been conveyed to him, 
and by which the first seed was sown in his heart that 
made him a man of character and usefulness." 



I Need Thee Every Hour 

Words by Annie S. Hawks Music by Robert Lowry 

"I need Thee every hour, 
Most gracious Lord." 

A chaplain of the State prison at Concord, Massa 
chusetts, tells how an ex-prisoner, who had never had 
a home in his life, prepared one, humble but tasteful, 
and then asked the chaplain to help him dedicate it. 
Together they entered the home the man s wife had 
not yet come and the service began. " Mr. B., with 
evident brokenness of spirit, for he was naturally a 
proud man and not unacquainted with larger surround 
ings, could not refrain from some criticism upon his 
poor things ; but his heart was so full that his embar 
rassment was only temporary, and he immediately went 
on with a firm purpose. He started the hymn, I need 
Thee every hour for the first number of the service." 

" I need Thee every hour " was first sung at a 
Sunday-school convention in Cincinnati, in November 
of 1872. Two years later I sang it for the first time 
at Mr. Moody s meetings in the East End of London. 
After that we often used it in our prayer-meetings. 

The singing of this hymn at a meeting in Chicago, 
at the time of the World s Fair, led to the writing of 



1 66 Sankey s Story 

the now famous song, " Moment by Moment," by 
D. W. Whittle. 

In the Secret of His Presence 

Words by Ellen Lakshmi Goreh Music by George C. Stebbins 

"In the secret of His presence how my soul delights to hide! 
Oh, how precious are the lessons which I learn at Jesus 
side!" 

The author of the words of this beautiful hymn 
was a high-caste native of India. After her conver 
sion to Christianity, it is said, she spent some years in 
the home of an English clergyman, and wrote the poem 
" In the Secret of His Presence " while there. It made 
its appearance in a book of poems of which she was 
the author. In 1883 the attention of Mr. Stebbins was 
called to it, and he wrote the music at that time. The 
hymn was first sung by him as an offertory in one of 
the churches in Brooklyn, New York. It was often 
repeated as an offertory, and on occasions was sung in 
evangelistic services. But it had its larger introduc 
tion to the public during the All-Winter Mission con 
ducted by Mr. Moody and myself in London in the 
winter of 1883-84, when I sang it frequently, as did 
Mr. Stebbins, who spent several months assisting in the 
mission. It was also often sung by Miss Beaucham, 
daughter of the late Lady Beaucham and since the wife 
of Colonel Drury-Lowe, one of the heroes of the Indian 
Mutiny, and uncle of Lord Curzon, Viceroy and Gov 
ernor-General of India. The hymn at once came into 
general favor, and the deeply spiritual tone of the 
words brought blessing to many. The song was after 
wards published in " Gospel Hymns," and in " Sacred 



Of the Gospel Hymns 167 

Songs and Solos." Very soon it found its way into 
all parts of the world. Dr. Hudson Taylor, head of 
the great China Inland Mission, stated at Northfield 
that it was the favorite hymn of his missionaries. 

The winter of 1890-91 Mr. and Mrs. Stebbins 
spent in India. While visiting the city of Allahabad, 
the home of Miss Goreh, Mr. Stebbins sought her out 
and made her acquaintance. He found her engaged in 
mission work among the women of India, a modest, 
devoted Christian, held in high esteem by missionaries 
of all denominations and by all who knew her. Thus 
the two singers whose names had become associated 
in Christian sonf met each other, one from the far 
East, and one from beyond far Western seas both 
inspired by the same Lord, in the secret of whose pres 
ence they long since came to abide. 

It Is Finished 

Words by the Rev. James Proctor Music by Ira D. Sankejr 

"Nothing, either great or small 
Nothing, sinner, no." 

The Scotch people are especially fond of this 
hymn. The author prefaced it with these lines : " Since 
I first discovered Jesus to be the end of the law for 
righteousness to every one that believeth, I have more 
than once met with a poor sinner seeking peace at the 
foot of Sinai instead of Calvary, and I have heard him 
again and again in bitter disappointment and fear 
groaning out, What must I do ? I have said to 
him, Do, do ? What can you do ? What do you need 
to do? " 



1 68 Sankey s Story 

It is Well with My Soul 

Words by H. G. Spafford Music by P. P. Bliss 

"When peace, like a river, attendeth my way, 
When sorrows like sea-billows roll." 

When Mr. Moody and I were holding meetings in 
Edinburgh, in 1874, we heard the sad news of the loss 
of the French steamer, " Ville de Havre," on her return 
from America to France, with a large number of mem 
bers of the Ecumenical Council, whose meetings had 
been held in Philadelphia. On board the steamer was 
a Mrs. Spafford, with her four children. In mid-ocean 
a collision took place with a large sailing vessel, caus 
ing the steamer to sink in half an hour. Nearly all 
on board were lost. Mrs. Spafford got her children 
out of their berths and up on deck. On being told 
that the vessel would soon sink, she knelt down with 
her children in prayer, asking God that they might be 
saved if possible ; or be made willing to die, if that was 
his will. In a few minutes the vessel sank to the bot 
tom of the sea, and the children were lost. One of 
the sailors of the vessel, named Lockurn whom I 
afterward met in Scotland while rowing over the spot 
where the vessel disappeared, discovered Mrs. Spaf 
ford floating in the water. Ten days later she was 
landed at Cardiff, Wales. From there she cabled to 
her husband, a lawyer in Chicago, the message, " Saved 
alone." Mr. Spafford, who was a Christian, had the 
message framed and hung up in his office. He started 
immediately for England to bring his wife to Chicago. 
Mr. Moody left his meetings in Edinburgh and went 
to Liverpool to try to comfort the bereaved parents, 



Of the Gospel Hymns 169 

and was greatly pleased to find that they were able to 
say : " It is well ; the will of God be done." 

In 1876, when we returned to Chicago to work, 
I was entertained at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Spaf- 
ford for a number of weeks. During that time Mr. 
Spafford wrote the hymn, " It is well with my soul," 
in commemoration of the death of his children. P. P. 
Bliss composed the music and sang it for the first time 
at a meeting in Farwell Hall. The comforting fact in 
connection with this incident was that in one of our 
small meetings in North Chicago, a short time prior 
to their sailing for Europe, the children had been 
converted. 

While still living in Chicago Mr. and Mrs. Spaf 
ford became much interested in the Second Coming 
of Christ. So zealous did Mr. Spafford become that 
he decided to go to Jerusalem with his wife and the 
one remaining daughter, and there await the coming 
of the Lord. Mr. Spafford died there not long after 
ward. Mrs. Spafford is the head of a society whose 
headquarters are in a building outside of Jerusalem, 
where a large number of people live, having all things 
in common. When I visited Jerusalem some years 
ago I met Mrs. Spafford on the Street of David. The 
next day I received a call from Miss Spafford, who is 
very popular amonr the natives and has become the 
teacher for a large body of children, instructing them 
in English literature and in American ways. 

This hymn was heard by a gentleman who had 
suffered great financial reverses in the panic of 1899, 
and who was in deepest despondency. When he learned 
the story of the hymn he exclaimed : " If Spafford 



170 Sankey s Story 

could write such a beautiful resignation hymn I will 
never complain again." 

I ve Found a Friend 

Words by J. G. Small Music by George C. Stebbins 

"I ve found a Friend, oh. such a Friend! 
He loved me ere I knew Him." 

On one occasion when Mr. Moorehouse and I 
were holding meetings at Scarboro, in the north of 
England, the services were attended by a number of 
Quaker ladies, among them a cousin of John Bright, 
the great English statesman. Wishing to have this 
hymn sung at one of the meetings, this lady wrote out 
the following request : " Will Mr. Sankey please repeat 
the hymn, I ve found a Friend/ in his usual way?" 
In thus wording her note she avoided asking me to 
sing, which is against the custom of the Society of 

Friends. 

**y 

" We were holding a cottage prayer-meeting in a 
lodging house," says a minister of Nottinghamshire, 
England, " when a young man lodging there came in to 
the meeting in a fun-seeking manner. We sang, 
prayed and read a chapter out of God s Word, and 
then the young man asked if we would sing a hymn 
for him. He chose I ve found a Friend, oh, such a 
Friend. When we had sung one verse he began to 
shed tears, and I am glad to say that he gave his heart 
to God through the singing of that beautiful hymn. 
The next morning he left the place, but before leaving 
he wrote me a letter, of which I give these extracts : * I 
asked you to sing that hymn because it was a favorite 
of my darling sister, who is waiting for me at the gates 



Of the Gospel Hymns 171 

in heaven. I have now promised to meet her there. 
By God s help, if we do not meet again on earth, I 
promise to meet you in heaven. You will always think 
of me when you sing, " I ve Found a Friend." Show 

this letter to my two other friends. " 

t^f 

The author of this hymn, the Rev. J. G. Small, 
who was born in Edinburgh in 1817, and died in 1888, 
wrote many hymns and poems and published several 
hymn-books. 

Jesus, I Will Trust Thee 

Words by Mary J. Walker Music by Ira D. Sankcy 

"Jesus, I will trust Thee, 
Trust Thee with my soul." 

Major Whittle gives an example of this hymn s 
usefulness, out of many instances : " I was holding 
meetings in Belfast. At one of the after-meetings I 
noticed a man remaining behind when almost all the 
others had gone. I spoke to him and found that he 
was a merchant in the city. He was in much distress 
about his sins. I showed him Christ the Saviour, who 
died for sinners, and tried to get him to appropriate 
that Saviour to himself. I saw there was a great 
struggle going on in his soul, the powers for good and 
evil evidently striving for the mastery. We went down 
on our knees and prayed. Then after a while he 
straightened himself up and gave vent to his feelings 
in this hymn, for he was a capital singer : 

Jesus, I will trust Thee, 

Trust Thee with my soul; 
Guilty, lost, and helpless, 
Thou canst make me whole. 



LIBRARY 
KNOX COLLEGE 

TORONTO 



172 Sankey s Story 

It was a song of victory over Satan, and a song of 
praise to Christ, through whom he had conquered. 
From that hour he has done splendid work for Christ 
among the worst of men." 



Jesus, Lover of My Soul 

Words by Charles Wesley Music by Simeon B. Marsh 

"Jesus, Lover of my soul, 
Let me to Thy bosom fly." 

Several incidents have been narrated as having 
suggested to Charles Wesley this hymn. One, that 
a narrow escape from death in a storm on the Atlantic 
inspired him to portray the thoughts of a Christian 
in deadly peril. Another, that as he stood at an open 
window on a summer day a little bird, pursued by a 
hawk, sought refuge in his bosom, giving him the idea 
of pointing out the soul s one sure place of refuge in 
time of need. 

Mrs. Mary Hoover, of Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, 
whose grandmother was the heroine of the story, has 
related to her pastor this family tradition: Charles 
Wesley was preaching in the fields of the parish of 
Killyleagh, County Down, Ireland, when he was at 
tacked by men who did not approve of his doctrines. 
He sought refuge in a house located on what was 
known as the Island Band Farm. The farmer s wife, 
Jane Lowrie Moore, told him to hide in the milkhouse, 
down in the garden. Soon the mob came and de 
manded the fugitive. She tried to quiet them by offer 
ing them refreshments. Going down to the milk- 



Of the Gospel Hymns 173 

house, she directed Mr. Wesley to get through the rear 
window and hide under the hedge, by which ran a little 
brook. In that hiding-place, with the cries of his pur 
suers all about him, he wrote this immortal hymn. 
Descendants of Mrs. Moore still live in the house, 
which is much the same as it was in Wesley s time. 



The great evangelist and president of Oberlin Col 
lege, Charles G. Finney, was walking about his 
grounds shortly before his death. In the church where 
he had preached for forty years the evening service was 
going on. Presently he heard this hymn floating to 
him from the distance. He joined with the invisible 
congregation in singing the hymn to the end. Before 
the next morning he had joined the choir about the 

throne. 

&lt;q* 

"An ungodly stranger," said Mr. Spurgeon, 
" stepping into one of our services at Exeter Hall, was 
brought to Christ by the singing of Jesus, Lover of 
my soul/ Does Jesus love me ? said he ; then why 
should I live in enmity with him ? " 



Tom was a drummer boy in the army, and the 
men called him " the young deacon " because of his 
sobriety and religious example. One day the chap 
lain found him sitting under a tree alone, with tears 
in his eyes. 

" Well, Tom, my boy, what is it? " 



174 Sankey s Story 

" I had a dream last night, which I can t get out 
of my mind." 

"What was it?" 

" My mother was a widow, poor but good. She 
never was like herself after my sister Mary died. A 
year ago she died, too ; and I, having no home and no 
mother, came to the war. But last night I dreamed 
the war was over and I went back home, and just be 
fore I got to the house my sister and mother came out 
to meet me. I didn t seem to remember that they 
were dead. How glad they were ! Oh, sir, it was just 
as real as you are real now." 

" Thank God, Tom," said the chaplain, " that you 
have such a mother, not really dead, but in heaven." 

The boy wiped his eyes and was comforted. The 
next day Tom s drum was heard all day long in a ter 
rible battle. At night it was known that " the young 
deacon " was lying wounded on the field. In the 
evening, when all was still, they heard a voice singing 
away off on the field, and they felt sure that it was 
Tom s voice. Softly the words of " Jesus, Lover of my 
soul " floated on the wings of the night. After the sec 
ond verse the voice grew weak and stopped. In the 
morning the soldiers found Tom sitting on the ground, 
leaning against a stump, dead. 

%* 

A vessel had gone on the rocks in the English 
Channel. The crew, with their captain, took to the 
boats and were lost. They might have been safe, had 
they remained on the vessel, as a huge wave carried 
her high up on the rocks. On the table in the captain s 
cabin was found a hymn-book, opened at this hymn, 



Of the Gospel Hymns 175 

and in it lay the pencil which had marked the favorite 
words of the captain. While the hurricane was howl 
ing outside and the vessel sinking, he had drawn his 
pencil beneath these words of cheer: 

"Jesus, Lover of my soul, 

Let me to Thy bosom fly, 
While the nearer waters roll, 
While the tempest still is high." 



" I would rather have written that hymn of Wes 
ley s, Jesus, Lover of my soul/ " Henry Ward Beecher 
once said, " than to have the fame of all the kings that 
ever sat on earth. It is more glorious ; it has more 
power in it. I would rather be the author of that 
hymn than to hold the wealth of the richest man in 
New York. It will go on singing until the trump 
brings forth the angel band ; and then I think it will 
mount up on some lip to the very presence of God." 

A* 

Dr. George Duffield himself the author of so 
fine a hymn as " Stand up, stand up for Jesus " in his 
old age paid this tribute out of a lifelong experience : 
&lt;: One of the most blessed days of my life was when I 
found, after my harp had long hung on the willows, 
that I could sing again ; that a new song was put in my 
mouth ; and when, ere ever I was aware, I was singing, 
* Jesus, Lover of my soul/ If there is anything in 
Christian experience of joy and sorrow, of affliction 
and prosperity, of life and death that hymn is the 
hymn of the ages ! " 

This was the last hymn we sang as the body of 
Mr. Moody was being lowered into the grave. 



176 Sankeys Story 

Jesus Loves Even Me 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by P. P. BUM 

"I am so glad that our Father in heaven 
Tells of His love in the Book He has given." 

" I think it was in June, 1870, that Jesus Loves 
Even Me was written," writes Major Whittle. " Mr. 
and Mrs. Bliss were at that time members of my fam 
ily in Chicago. One morning Mrs. Bliss came down 
to breakfast and said, as she entered the room : Last 
night Mr. Bliss had a tune given to him that I think 
is going to live and be one of the most useful that he 
has written. I have been singing it all the morning, 
and I cannot get it out of my mind/ She then sang 
the notes over to us. The idea of Bliss, in writing the 
hymn, was to bring out the truth that the peace and 
comfort of a Christian are not founded so much upon 
his love to Christ as upon Christ s love to him, and that 
to occupy the mind with Christ s love would produce 
love and consecration as taught in Romans 5:5, The 
love of God [to us] is shed abroad in our hearts by 
the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us/ How much 
God has used this little song to lead sinners and doubt 
ing Christians to look away to Jesus, eternity alone 
can tell." 

*to 

Mr. Bliss said that this song was suggested to 
him by hearing the chorus of the hymn, "Oh, how I 
love Jesus," repeated very frequently in a meeting 
which he attended. After joining in the chorus a 
number of times the thought came to him, " Have I 
not been singing enough about my poor love for Jesus, 
and shall I not rather sing of his great love for me ? " 



Of the Gospel Hymns 177 

Under the impulse of this thought he went home and 
composed this, one of his most popular children s 
hymns. 

AV 

" A young woman in England," says Major Whit 
tle, " went to a meeting where she heard Mr. Sankey 
sing, I am so glad that Jesus loves me/ While the 
hymn was being sung she began to feel for the first 
time in her life that she was a sinner. All her sins 
came up in an array before her ; and so numerous and 
aggravated did they appear, that she imagined she 
could never be saved. She said in her heart, Jesus 
cannot love me. He could not love such a sinner as I. 
She went home in a state of extreme mental anguish, 
and did not sleep that night. Every opportunity to 
obtain more light was eagerly seized. She took her 
place in the inquiry-room ; and there she found, to her 
astonishment and joy that Jesus could, did, does love 
sinners. She saw in God s open word that it was for 
sinners that he died, and for none others. When she 
realized this she began to sing I am so glad that Jesus 
loves me, Jesus loves even me/ " 

A minister was holding meetings in Indiana. A 
few miles distant lived an old Englishman who had 
not been inside a church for seven years. He was 
persuaded to take his children to the meeting one Sun 
day night. He declared afterward that nothing of 
what was said or done interested him until the close 
of the service, when Jesus loves me was sung. On 
his way home, and until he went to sleep, he could 
think of nothing but the hymn. When he awoke in 



178 Sankeys Story 

the morning the first thing he thought of was, Jesus 
loves me. He could not get it out of his mind, and 
when he was out in the field afterward he could think 
of nothing else. Was it possible that God could love 
a sinner like him? His eyes were so blinded with 
tears that he could not see to go on with his work. Out 
on that lonely field the old man found his Saviour. The 
next evening he visited the meeting, and as he told 
his experience tears were in the eyes of all the people. 

**&gt; 

During the winter after the great fire in Chicago, 
when the place was being built up with small frame 
houses for the poor, a mother sent for me one day to 
visit her little sick girl, who was one of our Sunday- 
school scholars. I remembered her quite well, and 
was glad to go. Finding that she was beyond hope of 
recovery, I asked how it was with her. 

" It is all well with me," she replied ; " but I wish 
you would speak to father and mother." 

It was plain that she loved Jesus, and I asked her 
when she became a Christian. " Don t you remember 
last Thursday in the Tabernacle," she said, " when we 
had the children s meeting, and you sang * Jesus loves 
me/ and don t you remember how you told us that if 
we would give our hearts to him he would love us? 
It was that day that I gave myself to Jesus. And now 
I am going to be with him, for the doctors say that I 
will die to-day." 

The testimony of that little girl, in that neglected 
quarter of the city, did more to encourage me to sing 
on than anything else, for she was my first convert. 

This song was much used in the meetings con- 



Of the Gospel Hymns 179 

ducted by Mr. Moody in Great Britain in 1873-4, and 
was given out to the congregation as an opening hymn 
more often than any other. As written by Mr. Bliss it 
consisted of three verses and a chorus. Some one un 
known to the writer has written three additional verses 
beginning, Jesus loves me, and I know I love Him." 

Jesus Loves Me 

Words by Anna B. Warner Music by William B. Bradbury 

"Jesus loves me! this I know, 
For the Bible tells me so." 

The Rev. Dr. Jacob Chamberlain, who for many 
years has been working among the Hindus, writes as 
follows regarding this hymn, long one of the most 
popular children s songs in the world : " Many jears 
ago I translated into Telugu the children s hymn, 
Jesus loves me and taught it to the children of our 
day-school. Scarcely a week later, as I was going 
through the narrow streets of the native town on horse 
back, I heard singing that sounded natural, down a 
side street. I stopped to listen, cautiously drawing 
up to the corner, where unobserved I could look down 
the street and see and hear. And there was a little 
heathen boy, with heathen men and women standing 
around him, singing away at the top of his voice : 

Jesus loves me! this I know, 

For the Bible tells me so . . i ? / 
Yes, Jesus loves me! 
The Bible tells me so! 

As he completed the verse some one asked the question : 
Sonny, where did you learn that song? Over at 



180 Sankey s Story 

the Missionary School/ was the answer. Who is 
that Jesus, and what is the Bible ? Oh ! the Bible 
is the book from God, they say, to teach us how to get 
to heaven, and Jesus is the name of the divine Re 
deemer that came into the world to save us from our 
sins ; that is what the missionaries say/ Well, the 
song is a nice one. Come, sing us some more/ 
And so the little boy went on a heathen himself, and 
singing to the heathen about Jesus and his love. 
1 That is preaching the Gospel by proxy/ I said to my 
self, as I turned my pony and rode away, well satisfied 
to leave my little proxy to tell his interested audience 
all he himself knew, and sing to them over and over 
that sweet song of salvation." 

Jesus of Nazareth Passeth By 

Words by Emma Campbell Music by T. E. Perkins 

"What means this eager, anxious throng, 
Which moves with busy haste along? " 

An officer of the English army sends me the fol 
lowing incident : " A soldier was stationed at Edin 
burgh Castle, and one evening left his post on a pass 
until midnight. He had a week s pay in one pocket 
and the washing money earned by his wife in the other, 
and was on his way to the public house to have a night 
in gambling. His eye caught the poster outside the 
Tolbooth Church, announcing your meetings. The 
officer liked the singing, and went in just to hear one 
song. As he entered Mr. Moody was preaching on 
The Blood/ That had no interest for him. After 
the address you sang, Jesus of Nazareth passeth by/ 
He listened with deep interest to the hymn. Too 



Of the Gospel Hymns 181 

late, too late/ was God s arrow to his soul. An officer 
of his regiment and I went into the inquiry-room, and 
among a great crowd we saw this comrade s red coat. 
He was in great distress. We spoke to him, holding 
to John 3 : 16. 

" That night the man went home instead of to the 
public house, and his wife was astonished to see him 
so early, and sober. He laid down all the money on 
the table, which astonished her still more. Then he 
went to bed, but was in too great distress to be able to 
sleep. The words Too late, too late rang in his 
ears. About two o clock in the morning John 3 : 16 
gleamed into his soul. He leaped from the bed, 
pleaded that grand promise, and Jesus received him. 
This was told the following morning by himself at the 
Castle. He held to his faith, and when the regiment 
left he was known throughout the camp as a man of 
God. The glorious Gospel with him began in song, 
and goes on in song." 

^%* 

A similar experience is related by another con 
vert : " It was on the 28th of December that I, like 
(I dare say) a great many others, went up to the As 
sembly Hall, out of sheer curiosity, an unconverted 
sinner. I heard Mr. Moody preach, and I am sorry 
to say I was very little affected by it. After Mr. 
Moody had finished his discourse, Mr. Sankey sang 
Jesus of Nazareth passeth by/ I was deeply moved 
by it, and when he came to the lines, 

Too late! too late! will be the cry; 
Jesus of Nazareth has passed by; 

oh ! I thought to myself, will that not be my cry ? Will 



1 82 Sankey s Story 

God not then say to me, Depart from me, I never 
knew you ? I felt in great anguish of soul, but I went 
home without remaining to the inquiry-meeting. All 
the way home those two lines still rang in my ears. 
It was a long time before I could go to sleep. My 
brain seemed all afire ; my past sins came up one by 
one before rny mind. At last I fell asleep, but only 
to wake with a start under the impression that a bright 
light had suddenly been extinguished in my room, and 
had left me in utter darkness. Immediately those 
lines sounded in my ears. I was able to be the in 
terpreter of my own dream. The bright light was 
Jesus, and the darkness was that of my own soul ; for 
he had passed by and I had not been saved. I had 
very little sleep that night. On the Monday night I 

came to the inquiry-meeting and Mr. spoke to me, 

showing me plainly that I had nothing to do Christ 
had done it all. I was only to believe in him. And 
before I left the hall that evening, by the blessing of 
God I was able to accept Christ as my Saviour. Upon 
going home I opened a Bible, and the first words that 
met my eye were John 3 : 16: God so loved the world 
that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever 
believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal 
life. I knew the whosoever included myself, and 
I rejoiced in it. I am doing so now ; and, by the help 
of God, I hope to do so till I find myself in my 

Saviour s arms." 

w 

At one of our early meetings in Edinburgh an 
old gentleman, more than seventy years of age, threw 
himself down on his knees and, sobbing like a child, 



Of the Gospel Hymns 183 

said : " I was utterly careless about my soul until last 
night, but I have been so unhappy since I could not 
sleep. I seemed to hear ringing in my ears, Jesus 
of Nazareth passeth by/ and I feel that if I am not 
saved now, I never shall be." 

/^ 

A lady traveling in the East tells of a visit she 
made to the Girls Orphanage in Nazareth, an institu 
tion established many years ago in the town where 
Jesus spent so many years of his early life. The Or 
phanage was established by a society of Christians in 
London. Here the lady heard the children sweetly 
singing : " Jesus of Nazareth passeth by," and she says 
that the children were sure the words were all meant 

for them. 

/%&gt; 

A young naval officer attended one of our meet 
ings in London. On being asked how he liked the 
address he replied : " I did not hear it, but I did like 
that song, What means this eager, anxious throng ? 
He was invited to attend again, and he responded : 
" Well, I enjoyed that solo, and I will go to hear the 
singing." He did so ; the same song was sung again, 
and so moved him that he remained for the inquiry- 
meeting. There he was saved through the mercy of 
God. A week later, in an accident, he was instantly 
killed, and so suddenly passed into the company of the 

redeemed. 

*+* 

The hymn was written during a religious revival 
in Newark, New Jersey, in i863~ 64, where hundreds 
were converted. One afternoon Mr. R. G. Pardee 



184 Sankey s Story 

made a very earnest address from Luke 18 : 37 "They 
told him that Jesus of Nazareth passeth by." Miss 
Emma Campbell was present, heard the address and 
saw how the community was stirred, and soon after 
ward she wrote these stanzas. The Rev. E. P. Ham 
mond, who had conducted the revival meetings, tried 
the verses to the tune of Sweet hour of prayer. : 

Later Mr. T. E. Perkins wrote the tune to which 
this hymn is now sung. It was one of the first favor 
ites at our meetings in England. The printed records 
of the meetings of these days bear testimony that hun 
dreds confessed to have accepted Christ during the 
singing of this hymn as a solo. Rev. Andrew A. Bonar 
brother of Dr. Horatius Bonar, the great hymn- 
writer speaking of this hymn in his " Life of James 
Scott," says, " Some of us in listening to these two mes 
sengers, the one singing, the other preaching, used to 
think of what is told in 2 Kings 3:15. Elisha, before 
beginning to prophesy, called for a minstrel, and when 
the camp of soldiers had been calmed and melted by 
harp and song, the hand of the Lord came upon the 
speaker. Had you been in Edinburgh during the four 
months when these brethren were there in 1873, you 
would have seen multitudes of all ages and stations 
hastening to the place of meeting, at whatever hour, 
any day of the week. The scene was exactly that de 
scribed in the hymn, so often sung, and so much 
blessed, 

What means this eager, anxious throng, 
Which moves with busy haste along. 
These wondrous gatherings day by day? 
What means this strange commotion, pray? " 



Of the Gospel Hymns 185 

Jesus, Saviour, Pilot Me ! 

Words by the Rev. Edward Hopper Music by J. E. Gould 

"Jesus, Saviour, pilot me, 
Over life s tempestuous sea." 

Major D. W. Whittle told me the following inci 
dent in connection with this hymn : " I went with Gen 
eral O. O. Howard to hold meetings for the soldiers 
at Tampa, Florida, and one day while going through 
the camp I found a young man dying of fever. I knelt 
by his side and asked him if he was a Christian. He 
replied that he was not, but said that his father and 
mother were Christians ; and he asked me to pray for 
him. I did so, but no deep impression was made upon 
his heart. I went away with a sorrowing heart and 
promised to return another day. Two days later I 
visited him again and, praying with him, the Lord put 
into my mind to sing, Jesus, Saviour, pilot me/ The 
dying soldier said : * Oh, that sounds good ; it puts me 
in mind of my beloved sister in Michigan, who used 
to sing this hymn for me before I entered the army/ 
He wanted me to repeat it over and over again for him, 
and finally he asked : Will Jesus be my pilot into the 
haven of rest ? I told the young man that Jesus would. 
* Then/ he said, I will trust him with all my heart/ 
The next day I called to see him again, but his com 
rade said : He passed away during the night/ " 

*%* 

The author of this hymn was born in New York 
in 1818, and for many years was the pastor of the 
Church of Sea and Land, in that city. The hymn was 
first published in 1871, in " The Sailors Magazine." 



Sankeys Story 
Just as I Am 

Words by Charlotte Elliott Music by William B. Bradburf 

"Just as I am, without one plea, 
But that Thy blood was shed for me." 

Miss Charlotte Elliott was visiting some friends 
in the West End of London, and there met the eminent 
minister, Cesar Malan. While seated at supper, the 
minister said he hoped that she was a Christian. She 
took offense at this, and replied that she would rather 
not discuss that question. Dr. Malan said that he was 
sorry if he had offended her, that he always liked to 
speak a word for his Master, and that he hoped that 
the young lady would some day become a worker for 
Christ. When they met again at the home of a mutual 
friend, three weeks later, Miss Elliott told the minister 
that ever since he had spoken to her she had been try 
ing to find her Saviour, and that she now wished him 
to tell her how to come to Christ. " Just come to 
him as you are," Dr. Malan said. This she did, and 
went away rejoicing. Shortly afterward she wrote 
this hymn, " Just as I am, without one plea." It was 
first published in " The Invalid s Hymn Book," in 1836. 

" In all my preaching," said her brother, the Rev. 
H. V. Elliott, " I have not done so much good as my 
sister has been permitted to accomplish by writing her 
one hymn, Just as I am. " 

A* 

A little street waif in New York City came to a 
missionary with a torn and dirty piece of paper, on 
which this hymn was printed. 



Of the Gospel Hymns 187 

" Please, sir," he said, " father sent me to get a 
clean copy like that." 

The missionary learned that the child s sister had 
loved to sing it, and that this copy had been found in 
her pocket after her death. The father wanted to 
obtain a clean copy of the verses in order to frame them. 

it%4 

During a service of song in a Christian church, 
John B. Gough was asked by a man in the pew with 
him what was to be sung, as the announcement had 
not been heard. The questioner was most repulsive 
in appearance, because of a nervous disease that dis 
figured his face and form. When the singing began, 
Gough was driven almost to frenzy by the harsh and 
discordant tones of the singer by his side. But when 
they came to " Just as I am, poor, wretched, blind," the 
wretched creature lifted his sightless eyes to heaven 
and sang with his whole soul. The great orator, in 
his impassioned and inimitable way, said: 

" I have heard the finest strains of orchestra, choir, 
and soloist this world can produce, but I never heard 
music until I heard that blind man sing, * O, Lamb of 
God, I come, I come/ " 

Lead, Kindly Light 

Words by John H. Newman Music by John B. Dykes 

"Lead, kindly Light, amid the encircling gloom, 
Lead Thou me on." 

Dr. Newman wrote this hymn in 1833, just before 
he entered upon the tractarian movement in the Estab 
lished Church. He had been at Rome, and stopping at 



1 88 Sankey s Story 

Sicily on his homeward way, he there became danger 
ously ill of fever. Upon recovery, he took passage on 
an orange boat for Marseilles, being under the impres 
sion that he must return to England and begin a move 
ment for the reformation of the Church in accord with 
his peculiar views. The sailing vessel was becalmed 
for a week in the Straits of Bonifacio, between Corsica 
and Sardinia. It was on this vessel and under such 
circumstances, his body sweltering in the heat and his 
mind racked with conflicting views as to his duty in 
the contemplated mission to the Established Church, 
that he penned the lines of this now cherished hymn. 
Its original title was " The Pillar of the Cloud," the 
hymn appearing first in " The British Magazine." 

Let the Lower Lights be Burning 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by P. P. Bliss 

" Brightly beams our Father s mercy 
From His lighthouse evermore." 

The words of this hymn were suggested to Mr. 
Bliss on hearing Mr. Moody tell the following incident : 
" On a dark, stormy night, when the waves rolled like 
mountains and not a star was to be seen, a boat, rock 
ing and plunging, neared the Cleveland harbor. Are 
you sure this is Cleveland ? asked the captain, seeing 
only one light from the lighthouse. Quite sure, sir, 
replied the pilot. l Where are the lower lights ? 
Gone out, sir/ Can you make the harbor? We 
must, or perish, sir ! With a strong hand and a brave 
heart the old pilot turned the wheel. But alas, in the 
darkness he missed the channel, and with a crash upon 



Of the Gospel Hymns 189 

the rocks the boat was shivered, and many a life lost 
in a watery grave. Brethren, the Master will take 
care of the great lighthouse; let us keep the lower 
lights burning ! " 

Let the Saviour in 

Words by J. B. Atchinson Music by E. O. Excel] 

"There s a Stranger at the door; 
Let Him in!" 

In Great Britain this favorite hymn brought bless 
ing to a retired colonel of the English army, at one 
of Mr. Moody s meetings on the banks of the Thames. 
The colonel had become anxious about his spiritual 
condition, and decided to go to London to attend our 
meetings there. At the conclusion of one of the even 
ing services, as he was about to leave the great build 
ing, his attention was arrested by a sweet voice singing, 
" Let the Saviour in." On taking the train at Padding- 
ton station for Bournemouth, the song remained in his 
heart and the wheels of the train seemed to repeat in 
his ears the refrain, " Let him in ! let the Saviour in ! " 

He went again to London and sought out the 
singer whose voice had so impressed him. She was 
a lady of high rank, and in the course of a few months 
became the wife of the gallant colonel. A year later 
they moved to Florida, where I had the pleasure of vis 
iting them in their home. On my invitation, they ac 
companied me to a near-by town where I was holding 
meetings. At the conclusion of my lecture the lady 
sang this hymn again, and so sweetly that it moved the 
audience to tears. 



190 Sankey s Story 

Missionary Hymn 

Words by R. Heber Music by Dr. Lowell Mason 

"From Greenland s icy mountains, 
From India s coral strand." 

The author of this hymn was Dean of Hodnet and 
afterward Bishop of Calcutta. He was visiting his 
father-in-law, the Vicar of Wrexham, they being to 
gether in the Vicar s study on the Saturday before 
Whitsunday, 1819. Each was preparing a missionary 
sermon to be delivered the following day, when the 
Vicar spoke up: 

" Heber, write something appropriate to sing at 
our services to-morrow." 

Immediately retiring to the other end of the room, 
Heber sat down by the window and composed the 
four stanzas which now constitute this hymn. He 
wanted to add a fifth, but the Vicar said : " Nay ; you 
will only destroy the beauty and symmetry of the com 
position ; let it stand." 

The song was sung for the first time on that Whit 
sunday. Bishop Heber laid down his life, seven years 
later, on the mission field of India. Of the many hymns 
which he wrote, nearly all are in common use, 

Moment by Moment 

Words by D. W. Whittle Music by May Whittle Moody 

"Dying with Jesus, by death reckoned mine; 
Living with Jesus a new life divine." 

While I was attending the World s Fair, in Chi 
cago, Henry Varley, a lay preacher from London, said 
to Major Whittle : " I do not like the hymn I need 



Of the Gospel Hymns 191 

Thee every hour very well, because I need Him every 
moment of the day." Soon after Major Whittle wrote 
this sweet hymn, having the chorus : 

"Moment by moment I m kept in His love; 
Moment by moment I ve life from above; 
Looking to Jesus till glory doth shine; 
Moment by moment, O Lord, I am Thine." 

Mr. Whittle brought the hymn to me in manu 
script a little later, saying that he would give me the 
copyright of both the words and music if I would print 
for him five hundred copies on fine paper, for distrib 
uting among his friends. His daughter, May Whittle, 
who later became the wife of Will R. Moody, composed 
the music. I did as Mr. Whittle wished; and I sent 
the hymn to England, where it was copyrighted on the 
same day as at Washington. 

In England the hymn became very popular. Fall 
ing into the hands of the well-known Rev. Andrew 
Murray, of South Africa, then visiting London, he 
adopted it as his favorite hymn. A year later Mr. 
Murray visited Northfield, and while holding a meet 
ing for men in the church he remarked : " If Sankey 
only knew a hymn which I found in London, and would 
sing it, he would find that it embraces my entire creed." 

I was very anxious to know what hymn it was. 
and when he had recited it I said to him : " Doctor, that 
hymn was written within five hundred yards of where 
we are standing." 

For years Dr. Murray had his wife sing this hymn 
in nearly all his meetings. It also became a great 
favorite in South Africa during the war. 



192 Sankey s Story 

More to Follow 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by P. P. Bliss 

"Have you on the Lord believed? 
Still there s more to follow." 

The suggestion for this hymn came to Mr. Bliss 
through hearing Mr. Moody tell the story of a vast 
fortune which was left in the hands of a minister for 
one of his poor parishioners. Fearing that it might 
be squandered if suddenly bestowed upon the bene 
ficiary, the wise minister sent him a little at the time, 
with a note, saying : " This is thine ; use it wisely ; there 
is more to follow." 

Must I Go, and Empty-Handed 

Words by C. C. Luther Music by George C. Stebbins 

"Must I go, and empty-handed? 
Thus my dear Redeemer meet?" 

During a series of evangelistic meetings the Rev. 
A. G. Upham referred in his sermon to a young man 
who, dying after only a month of Christian service, said 
to a friend, " No, I am not afraid ; Jesus saves me now. 
But oh ! must I go, and empty-handed ? " The incident 
made a strong impression upon the Rev. C. C. Luther 
for whom Mr. Upham was preaching and in a few 
minutes the words of this hymn had arranged them 
selves in Mr. Luther s mind. A few days later he 
handed them to Mr. Stebbins, who composed the beau 
tiful tune to which they are sung. 

mt 

About fifteen years ago a man who was living a 
reckless, godless life, went to a Sunday morning service 



Of the Gospel Hymns 193 

in a mission hall in Essex, England. This hymn was 
used in the service, and as the third verse was rendered, 

"Oh, the years of sinning wasted, 

Could I but recall them now, 

I would give them to my Saviour, 

To His will I d gladly bow," 

the man was so forcibly impressed that he could not 
take part in the singing. He went home miserable, 
and was unable to eat any dinner. In the afternoon 
he went to a Bible-class for workingmen, conducted at 
the other end of the village. As he entered the same 
hymn was being sung that had made him so miserable 
in the morning, " Must I go, and empty-handed ? " 
The man was so moved by the words of the hymn, 
and so impressed by the coincidence of its being sung 
at both places where he had attended, that it resulted in 
his conversion. He lived a consistent life thereafter, 
showing a real change of heart and a strong desire to 
no longer waste his years in sinning. 

My Ain Countrie 

Words by Mary Lee Demarest Har. by H. P. M. Music by Mrs. lone T. Hanna 

"I am far frae my hame, an I m weary aften-whiles, 
For the longed-for hame-bringin , an my Faither s welcome 
smiles." 

Many years ago John Macduff and his young 
bride left Scotland on a sailing vessel for America, 
there to seek their fortune. After tarrying a few 
weeks in New York they went West, where they were 
successful in accumulating a good competence. By 



Sankeys Story 

and by the wife s health began to fail. The anxious 
husband said that he feared she was homesick. 

" John," she replied, " I am wearying for my ain 
countrie ; will ye not taik me to the sea, that I may see 
the ships sailing to the homeland once more ? " 

Her husband s heart was moved with compassion. 
In a few weeks he sold their Western home and took 
his wife East to a pleasant little cottage by the sea, 
whose further shore broke on the rocks that line the 
coast of Scotland. She would often sit and gaze wist 
fully at the ships sailing from the bay, one after an 
other disappearing below the horizon on their way to 
her ain countrie. Although she uttered no complaint, 
it was evident that she was silently pining away. John 
was afraid that she would die in a foreign land; and 
as an effort to save her he sold his New England home, 
and took her back across the ocean. She was speedily 
recovered by the keen mountain air, the sight of purple 
heather, nodding bluebells, and hedge-rows white with 
fragrant hawthorn blossoms in bonnie Scotland, her 
own dear native land. To her it was home. And 
there is no sweeter word in any language than home ! 

A few years prior to this time, in 1838, Mary Lee 
was born at Croton Falls, New York. At an early 
age she lost her mother and was left in charge of a 
Scotch nurse, from whom she learned something of 
the Scottish dialect. And her grandfather, a native 
of Scotland, had often sung little Mary to sleep with 
Scottish lullabies. As a young woman she was re 
fined and highly educated, and she exhibited unusual 
literary talent. Most of all she was esteemed for her 
noble Christian character, manifested in daily life. At 



Of the Gospel Hymns 195 

the age of twenty-three, Mary Lee wrote this immortal 
poem after hearing the story of John Macduff and 
his wife, and published it first in " The New York Ob 
server." Later it appeared in a volume of her poems. 
After her marriage to Mr. Demarest they resided in 
Pasadena, California, where she died in 1887. While 
visiting that town a number of years later, I went to the 
cemetery to see if I could find the grave of the beloved 
hymn-writer, but was unable to do so. Afterward I 
learned that her body was brought East and buried in 
a small town not far from Albany, New York. 

This hymn was one of my favorite solos, and was 
much loved by Mr. Moody. 

My Country, Tis of Thee 

Words by S. F. Smith, D. D. Music by Henry Carey 

"My country, tis of thee. 
Sweet land of liberty." 

The words of this popular hymn, now known as 
the national hymn of America, were written in 1832. 
Dr. Smith says : " I found the tune in a German music- 
book, brought to this country by the late William C. 
Woodbridge, and put into my hands by Lowell Mason, 
because I could read German books and he could not." 
The real origin of the tune is much disputed, but the 
credit is usually given to Henry Carey. The hymn 
was first sung at a children s Fourth of July celebra 
tion, in the Park Street Church, Boston. Dr. Samuel 
Francis Smith was born in Boston, October 21, 1808. 
He died in the same city, November 16, 1895, at the 
" New York and New England " depot, while on his 
way to fulfill an engagement to preach at Readville, 



196 Sankey* s Story 

While traveling in Egypt I met the author s son, 
who is a missionary in that country, and said to him 
that if I ever got home I would sing his father s song 
with new interest ; for I was now more than ever con 
vinced that my beloved America, the land of liberty, 
was the dearest of all lands to me. 



Dr. Smith visited the Board of Trade in Chicago 
in May of 1887. While sitting in the gallery he was 
pointed out to some of the members. Soon he became 
the center of considerable notice. All at once the trad 
ing on the floor ceased, and from the wheat-pit came 
the familiar words, " My country, tis of thee." After 
two stanzas had been sung, Dr. Smith arose and bowed. 
A rousing cheer was given by the men on the floor, 
to which Dr. Smith was now escorted by the secretary 
of the Board. The members flocked around Dr. Smith 
and grasped his hand. Then they opened a passage 
through the crowd and led him to the wheat-pit, where 
they took off their hats and sang the rest of the hymn. 

My Faith Looks up to Thee 

Words by Ray Palmer Music by Dr. Lowell Mason 

"My faith looks up to Thee, 
Thou Lamb of Calvary." 

" I gave form to what I felt," says Dr. Palmer, 
" by writing, with little effort, the stanzas. I recollect 
I wrote them with tender emotion and ended the last 
line with tears." He placed the manuscript in a pocket- 
book, and carried it there for some time. One day, in 



Of the Gospel Hymns 197 

Boston, he met Dr. Lowell Mason, who inquired if Mr. 
Palmer had not some hymn to contribute to his new 
book. The pocket-book was produced and the hymn 
was brought to light. Dr. Mason took a copy of the 
song, and after reaching home was so much impressed 
with it that he wrote for it the famous tune " Olivet/ 
to which it is usually sung. A short time after he met 
the author on the street and exclaimed : 

" Mr. Palmer, you may live many years and do 
many good things, but I think you will be best known 
to posterity as the author of My faith looks up to 

Thee/ " 

f^t 

The hymn was published in 1832, but did not at 
first receive much notice. The Rev. Andrew Reed, D.D., 
of Scotland who wrote "Why not to-night ?" for 
which I composed the music found a copy of the 
hymn in a religious newspaper while traveling in this 
country, took it home, and published it anonymously in 
his hymn-book. 

Dr. Palmer wrote me the following incident: 
" During the Civil War, and on the evening preceding 
a terrible battle, six or eight Christian young men, 
who were looking forward to deadly strife, met to 
gether in one of their tents for prayer. After spending 
some time in committing themselves to God and in 
Christian conversation, and freely speaking together 
of the probability that they would not all survive the 
morrow, it was suggested by one of the number that 
they should draw up a paper expressive of the feelings 
with which they went to stand face to face with death, 
and all sign it ; and that this should be left as a testi- 



1 98 Sankey s Story 

mony to the friends of such of them as might fall. 
This was unanimously agreed to. After consultation, 
it was decided that a copy of My faith looks up to 
Thee should be written out, and that each man should 
subscribe his name to it, so that father, mother, sister 
or brother might know in what spirit they laid down 
their lives. Of course, they did not all meet again. 
The incident was related afterward by one who sur 
vived the battle." 

My Jesus, I Love Thee 

Anonymous Music by A. J. Gordon 

"My Jesus, I love Thee, I know Thou art mine, 
For Thee all the follies of sin I resign." 

A Protestant Episcopal Bishop of Michigan once 
related the following incident to a large audience in one 
of the Rev. E. P. Hammond s meetings in St. Louis 
" A young, talented and tender-hearted actress was 
passing along the street of a large city. Seeing a pale, 
sick girl lying upon a couch just within the half-open 
door of a beautiful dwelling, she entered, with the 
thought that by her vivacity and pleasant conversation 
she might cheer the young invalid. The sick girl was 
a devoted Christian, and her words, her patience, her 
submission and heaven-lit countenance, so demon 
strated the spirit of her religion that the actress was 
led to give some earnest thought to the claims of Chris 
tianity, and was thoroughly converted, and became a 
true follower of Christ. She told her father, the leader 
of the theater troupe, of her conversion, and of her 
desire to abandon the stage, stating that she could 



Of the Gospel Hymns 199 

not live a consistent Christian life and follow the life 
of an actress. Her father was astonished beyond 
measure, and told his daughter that their living would 
be lost to them and their business ruined, if she per 
sisted in her resolution. Loving her father dearly, she 
was shaken somewhat in her purpose, and partially 
consented to fill the published engagement to be met 
in a few days. She was the star of the troupe, and a 
general favorite. Every preparation was made for the 
play in which she was to appear. The evening came 
and the father rejoiced that he had won back his daugh 
ter, and that their living was not to be lost. The hour 
arrived ; a large audience had assembled. The curtain 
rose, and the young actress stepped forward firmly 
amid the applause of the multitude. But an unwonted 
light beamed from her beautiful face. Amid the breath 
less silence of the audience she repeated: 

My Jesus, I love Thee, I know Thou art mine; 
For Thee all the follies of sin I resign; 
My gracious Redeemer, my Saviour art Thou; 
If ever I loved Thee, my Jesus, tis now/ 

This was all. Through Christ she had conquered, and, 
leaving her audience in tears, she retired from the 
stage, never to appear upon it again. Through her 
influence her father was converted, and through their 
united evangelistic labors many were led to God." 

%* 

This selection was sung by a thousand voices at 
the funeral of the Scotch missionary hero, Robert 
Annan, who was drowned in the bay of Dundee while 
attempting to rescue a drowning child, in 1867. Under 



2OO Sankey s Story 

the hymn " Eternity," previously mentioned in this 
book, more will be found concerning Robert Annan. 



Nearer, My God to Thee 

Words by Sarah F. Adams Music by Dr. Lowell Mason 

"Nearer, my God, to Thee, 
Nearer to Thee." 

One of my last lectures on " Sacred Song and 
Story " was delivered before a large audience in the 
Church of the Covenant, in Washington, D. C., at 
which the late Secretary of State, John Hay, members 
of Congress, and Judges of the Supreme Court were 
present. The favorite hymn, " Nearer, my God, to 
Thee," was sung very heartily by the congregation. I 
requested the pastor, the Rev. Dr. Hamlin, to make 
an appointment for an interview with President Mc- 
Kinley. Two days later we visited the White House. 
The President greeted me warmly, saying he was very 
glad to meet me, as he had often heard me sing in Ohio. 
* I understand that you are quite a fine singer your 
self," I replied. He smiled and said : " I don t know 
as to that, but I try to sing with the spirit and with 
the understanding." He seemed very bright and 
happy, and he gave me his autograph. The next day 
the President went to New York and attended service 
at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church, during 
which " Nearer, my God, to Thee " was sung. The 
President s voice was heard, as he joined heartily in 
his favorite hymn. A reporter took a photograph of 
the President as he was singing, which appeared the 
next day in one of the New York papers. In 1902, 



Of the Gospel Hymns 201 

in Buffalo, as he lay dying by the hand of an assassin, 
the martyred President was heard singing faintly, 

"Nearer, my God, to Thee, 
Nearer to Thee; 
E en though it be a cross 
That raiseth me! 
Still all my song shall be 
Nearer, my God, to Thee, 
Nearer to Thee!" 

And thus passed away one of the noblest men of our 
age. On the day of his funeral, at Canton, Ohio, all 
trains, trolley cars and nearly all machinery in the 
United States were stopped for five minutes, and 
" Nearer, my God, to Thee " was sung in nearly every 
church in the land. 

Apji 

Bishop Marvin, of the Methodist Episcopal 
Church, was traveling during the Civil War in the 
wilds of Arkansas. He was feeling much depressed, 
for the Union troops had driven him from his home. 
As he approached a dilapidated old log cabin he heard 
some one singing, " Nearer, my God, to Thee." He 
alighted and entered the house. There he found a 
poor woman, widowed and old, who was singing in the 
midst of such poverty as he had never seen before. 
His despondency vanished and he went on his way 
happy and trustful, because of the faith which he had 
seen and the hymn which he had heard. 

**t 

A little drummer boy was found, after the battle 
of Fort Donelson, by one who visited the field. The 
poor lad had lost an arm, which had been carried away 



2O2 Sankey s Story 

by a cannon ball, but even as he lay there dying he was 
singing, " Nearer, my God, to Thee." 

No Hope in Jesus 

Words by W. O. Gushing Music by Robert Lowry 

"Oh, to have no Christ, no Saviour! 
No Rock, no Refuge nigh!" 

From the " Rescue Mission," of Syracuse, New 
York, comes this incident. " One of the workers at the 
Rescue Mission sat at the window sewing. She is not 
a grand singer, in fact, scarcely ever sings in the meet 
ing; but alone by herself she sings the Gospel songs. 
She was singing : 

Oh, to have no Christ, no Saviour. . . . 
How dark this world must be! 

When she had finished she heard some one calling, and 
saw two girls looking over a neighboring fence. One 
said : Won t you please sing that again ? 

" I am afraid some of us would have begun to 
make excuse, and say we were not singers. But this 
soul sang it over again, praying God to bless the song, 
and then went to talk with them. She recognized 
them as inmates of a house of evil resort, and asked 
permission to call on them. They would not grant 
this, but the next day one came to the mission and 
threw herself, weeping, into the arms of the singer, 
saying : I have been so unhappy since I heard you 
sing! You remind me of my mother and the days 
when I was innocent and good. I had a good home, 
but quarreled with my mother, ran away and got into 



Of the Gospel Hymns 203 

a life of sin ; I am tired of it, won t you pray for me? 
They had prayer, and the poor wandering one was 
led to the Saviour. She said : I ll never go back to 
that place again. I m going to the poor-master and 
ask him to send me home/ 

" The worker furnished the money to pay her fare 
to her home in a neighboring city, and she went away 
rejoicing. This was some time ago. One evening the 
girl, accompanied by her father, paid a visit to the mis 
sion. She was happy in Christ, and had led eleven 
souls to him, her father and mother being among the 
number. Her father was full of praise and thanksgiv 
ing to God for what he had done for his erring child, 
and tears ran down his cheeks as he thanked the singer 
for the song, and for the help she had been to his 
daughter. Her desire is to work among the fallen 
ones from among whom she was rescued." 

Not Half has ever been Told 

Words by the Rev. J. B. Atchinson Music by O. F. Presbrey 

"I have read of a beautiful city, 
Far away in the kingdom of God." 

" A young skeptic in Ohio," writes Dr. O. F. 
Presbrey, " was wasting away with consumption. His 
family were greatly distressed, for nothing seemed to 
awaken in him an interest regarding his soul. One 
day, as he lay on the sofa, his sister, sitting at the organ, 
sang, Not half has ever been told. He seemed much 
affected and said, Oh, sister, sing that hymn again, I 
never had anything touch my heart like that before. 
The hymn was sung again, and day by day he listened 



2O4 San key s Story 

to it. Within two months his spirit took its flight, 
singing as it went, 

Not half of that city s bright glory, 
To mortals has ever been told. " 



A clergyman had a son who was sent up into the 
north woods of Canada in search of health. After a 
few weeks his father was summoned, and found him in 
a dying condition. On the evening before his death 
they sang together " Not half has ever been told." The 
father says that he can never forget the joy and peace 
which filled the soul of his dying boy as they sang of 
that beautiful city of which he was so soon to be an 
inhabitant. 

Not Now, My Child 

Words by Mrs. Pennefather Music by Ira D. Sankey 

"Not now, my child, a little more rough tossing, 
A little longer on the billows foam." 

Mrs. Pennefather, the author of this hymn, was 
the wife of one of the ministers who invited Mr. Moody 
and me to England in 1873. She was one of the found 
ers of the Mildmay Conference, in the north of Lon 
don, and also organized the famous Deaconess Society, 
composed of many ladies of distinction who therein 
seek a field for religious effort. I arranged her hymn 
to music, and often used to sing it as a solo. 

A young lady of a titled family, walking one day 
along the Strand, saw crowds pushing into the large 
building where we were holding meetings. Following 
the crowd, she soon found herself seated and listening 



Of the Gospel Hymns 205 

to a stirring sermon by Mr. Moody. I also sang this 
hymn as a solo. The whole service much impressed 
the young lady. At the conclusion of the meeting, 
when Mr. Moody invited all who desired to become 
Christians to rise, she stood up with hundreds of 
others, and later went into the inquiry-room and there 
gave her heart to God. When she went home she an 
nounced to her family that she had become a Chris 
tian, and they laughed her to scorn. After a few weeks 
she decided to leave her home and cast in her lot with 
those who were living for Christ. She went to Mrs. 
Pennefather, and put on the dress of a deaconess. 
There she continued for over a year. One day, more 
than a year later, she received a letter from her father, 
a Lord of the realm, asking her to accompany him on 
his yachting trip to the north of Scotland. While on 
the trip she was successful in leading her father to the 
Saviour. Landing in Scotland, they found some 
friends from London in a little fishing village. On Sun 
day the question arose as to where they would attend 
service. They finally agreed to go to a neighboring 
village where a visiting clergyman was to give an ad 
dress. The young lady and her father were greatly 
impressed with the sermon. The next day when they 
returned to the yacht, his Lordship remarked that he 
would like to have that clergyman preach his funeral 
sermon. On the return trip the old gentleman caught 
a severe cold, and died soon afterward. The young 
lady communicated her father s wish to the clergyman, 
and he conducted the funeral services. The clergy 
man became interested in the young lady, and sought 
her hand in marriage. After their wedding they moved 



206 Sankey s Story 

to Scotland, residing on a large estate to which the 
clergyman had fallen heir. When Mr. Moody and I 
were carrying on the campaign in Scotland we were 
invited to visit their castle. During our visit there we 
held meetings in the neighborhood for the miners. At 
the suggestion of our host we used to go into the forest 
and cut down trees for exercise. Before leaving the 
estate each of us planted a tree near the castle gate, 
and the clergyman named one of them " Moody," and 
the other " Sankey." 

Nothing but Leaves 

Words by L. E. Akerman Music by Silas J. Vail 

"Nothing but leaves! The Spirit grieves 
O er years of wasted life." 

Mrs. Lucy Evelina Akerman, the author of this 
hymn, died in Providence, Rhode Island, 1874, at the 
age of twenty-four. 

The hymn was a special favorite at the early 
Moody and Sankey meetings. I often sang it as a solo 
for Mr. Moody s lecture on " The Holy Spirit." While 
singing it in Birmingham a lady was convinced, as she 
wrote me afterwards, that her life had been nothing 
but leaves; and she then decided to devote the rest 
of her life to rescuing her lost sisters. She secured a 
building, which she called " The Rescue Home," and 
for years she gathered in poor, wretched girls from 
the streets of the city, gave them employment, and 
taught them the way of life. Through her efforts hun 
dreds of girls were saved. After her death the city 
officials took up her work, employing other women, 



Of the Gospel Hymns 207 

who are still engaged in seeking the lost ones. On my 
last visit to England I had the pleasure of visiting this 
rescue home and singing for the inmates. 



" During the mission in 1884," writes M. C. 
Boardman, of Stratford, East London, " the hymn 
Nothing but leaves was often sung. It brought con 
viction to one of the stewards. He said that this song 
disturbed him. For years he had been a professor of 
religion, but with personal interest in view. He said 
he trusted that henceforth there would be fruit as well 
as leaves in his life. From that time he has been an 
ardent Christian worker." 

O for a Thousand Tongues to Sing 

Words by Charles Wesley Music by Oliver Holden 

"O for a thousand tongues to sing 
My great Redeemer s praise." 

When Charles Wesley consulted Peter Bohler as 
to the propriety of praising God, he replied, " Had I a 
thousand tongues, I would praise him with all " an 
expression that is believed to have inspired the opening 
line of this hymn which Wesley wrote, in 1739, to com 
memorate the first anniversary of his new birthday, the 
day of his conversion. When John Wesley made his 
collection of hymns for the use of the Methodists, he 
selected this one to stand as the first hymn in the book. 
To this day it remains in that place of honor, and as 
the Rev. S. W. Duffield says, it "well deserves the 
prominence." 



208 Sankey s Story 

Oh, to be Nothing 

Words by Georgiana M. Taylor Music by R. G. Halls. Arr. by P. P. Bliss 

" Oh, to be nothing, nothing, 
Only to lie at His feet." 

Miss Taylor writes me : " The idea for the hymn 
came into my mind through reading the expression, 
Oh, to be nothing/ in a volume of an old magazine. 
I think it occurred in an anecdote about an aged Chris 
tian worker. At all events the words haunted me ; I 
mused on their meaning, and the hymn was the out 
come." 

Some one has misinterpreted the true meaning of 
the hymn, and has written another entitled, " Oh, to be 
something." But it is not in accordance with the Mas 
ter, who made himself nothing; nor is it in the spirit 
of the text which says that he that abaseth himself shall 
in due time be exalted. 

This hymn was much used as a solo in our meet 
ings in Great Britain. 

Oh, what are You Going to Do? 

Words by Fanny J. Crosby Music by Philip Phillips 

"Oh, what are you going to do, brother? 
Say, what are you going to do?" 

Away back in 1867 this hymn was written and 
dedicated to the Young Men s Christian Associations 
of America. For many years I used it both in Great 
Britain and America. Many testimonies have been 
given of the blessing it has brought to young men who 
have heard it sung. 

" I have a young men s Bible-class," writes a 
Christian worker in Rotherham, England. " Some 



Of the Gospel Hymns 209 

years ago one of my scholars brought a stranger to the 
class, who had just come to our town on business. He 
continued to attend very regularly for about a year. 
Having obtained a better business appointment in a 
distant town, he told me before leaving the class that 
when he first arrived he had fully made up his mind to 
shake himself free from all religious influence; as he 
had come to a strange town where no one knew him, 
he would enjoy himself any way he chose. But he con 
sented to attend the class just once. The first hymn 
sung was, Oh, what are you going to do, brother ? 
Say, what are you going to do? He could not get 
it out of his head all the week, and it was the means 
of entirely setting aside his intentions. On arriving 
at his new home he immediately united with a Chris 
tian church. His steady, consistent life won for him 
further promotion in business, and he now fills a posi 
tion of usefulness and responsibility in an important 
town. All the good he had received he attributed to 
that hymn on the first Sunday of his residence here." 

On Jordan s Stormy Banks 

Words by the Rev. Samuel Stennett Music by T. C. O Kane 

" On Jordan s stormy banks I stand, 
And cast a wishful eye." 

While visiting the Holy Land I sang this hymn 
on the banks of the Jordan, opposite Mount Horeb, 
where God showed Moses the promised land of Ca 
naan. As the banks of the Jordan are not stormy, the 
word " rugged " has by many been substituted for 
" stormy " in the first line. 



2io Sankey s Story 

Of the many hymns written by Dr. Stennett, this 
is one of the most famous. The author was born at 
Exeter, England. His father was the pastor of the 
Baptist Church, in Little Wild Street, London. With 
this church young Sennett united. He became his 
father s assistant, and later his successor, continuing 
in that pastorate until his death, in 1795, at the age 
of sixty-eight. He was noted as the friend of King 
George III. The hymn was first published in Rippon s 
" Selections," in 1787. 

One more Day s Work for Jesus 

Words by Miss Anna Warner Music by the Rev. Robert Lowry 

" One more day s work for Jestr ; 
One less of life for me." 

One day, while the children in a Mission Chapel 
were singing " One more day s work for Jesus," a 
woman passing by stopped outside to listen. She 
went home with these words fixed in her mind. The 
next day, as she was bending over the washtub, the 
words of the hymn came to her again and aroused the 
question, " Have I ever done one day s work for Jesus 
in all my life ? " That marked the turning point. 
There and then she began to work for Christ. She 
washed the clothes for Jesus, cleaned the house for 
Jesus, administered the needs of her family for Jesus. 
A new light came into her life ; and at the close of 
that day she could sing with a different feeling and a 
new enthusiasm: 

"One more day s work for Jesus; 
How sweet the work has been." 



Of the Gospel Hymns 211 

One Sweetly Solemn Thought 

Words by Phoebe Gary Music by Philip Phillips 

"One sweetly solemn thought 
Comes to me o er and o er." 

A gentleman traveling in China found at Macao a 
company of gamblers in a back room on the upper floor 
of a hotel. At the table nearest him was an American, 
about twenty years old, playing with an old man. While 
the gray-haired man was shuffling the cards, the young 
man, in a careless way, sang a verse of " One sweetly 
solemn thought," to a very pathetic tune. Several 
gamblers looked up in surprise on hearing the singing. 
The old man, who was dealing the cards, gazed stead 
fastly at his partner in the game, and then threw the 
pack of cards under the table. 

" Where did you learn that song? " he asked. The 
young man pretended that he did not know that he had 
been singing. " Well, no matter," said the old man, 
" I have played my last game, and that s the end of it. 
The cards may lie there till doomsday, and I ll never 
pick them up." Having won a hundred dollars from 
the young man, he took the money from his pocket and, 
handing it over to the latter, said : " Here, Harry, is 
your money ; take it and do good with it ; I shall with 
mine." 

The traveler followed them downstairs, and at the 
door heard the old man still talking about the song 
which the young man had sung. Long afterward a 
gentleman in Boston received a letter from the old 
man, in which he declared that he had become a " hard 
working Christian," and that his young friend also 
had renounced gambling and kindred vices. 



212 Sankey s Story 

This hymn was composed in a little third-story 
bedroom one Sunday morning in 1852, after the author 
had come from church. Miss Carey was then twenty- 
eight. She died in Newport, Rhode Island, nineteen 
years later. 

Only a Step to Jesus 

Words by Fanny J. Crosby Music by W. H. Doane 

"Only a step to Jesus! 
Then why not take it now?" 

The editor of a religious periodical in the South 
sends me the following incident, which occurred while 
he was holding meetings in a small town : " One night 
a prominent man of the county, not a Christian, was 
in town. Having heard of the fine singing, he went 
to the meeting for a few minutes to listen to a song or 
two. He heard only one song and then went away; 
but that song went with him. It was, Only a step to 
Jesus ! Then why not take it now ? The words 
stayed with him, and were repeated over and over. 
They came back to him the next day, and awakened 
inquiry regarding himself which at last led him into 
repentance and a happy conversion. Many people 
wept as he related his experience before the church." 

Only Trust Him 

Words by J. H. S. Music by J. H. Stockton 

" Come, every soul by sin oppressed 
There s mercy with the Lord" 

While on the way to England with Mr. Moody 
in 1873, one day in mid-ocean, as I was looking over a 
iist of hymns in my scrap-book, I noticed one com- 



Of the Gospel Hymns 213 

mencing, " Come every soul by sin oppressed," written 
by the Rev. John Stockton, with the familiar chorus, 

" Come to Jesus, 
Come to Jesus, 
Come to Jesus just now." 

Believing that these words had been so often sung 
that they were hackneyed, I decided to change 
them and tell how to come to Jesus by substituting the 
words, " Only trust him." In this form it was first pub 
lished in " Sacred Songs and Solos " in London. While 
holding meetings in Her Majesty s Theater in Pall 
Mall, London, and singing this hymn, I thought I 
would change the chorus again, and asked the people 
to sing 

"I will trust Him, 

I will trust Him, 

I will trust Him just now." 

Then as we sang I decided to change it once more, 
and asked them to sing, "I do trust him." God 
blessed this rendering of the hymn to eight persons 
present, who testified afterward that by the change 
they were led to accept salvation. 

** 

" I am much interested in sacred songs," writes a 
missionary in England, "because it was the first verse 
of Only trust Him that opened the door of my heart 
to let the Master into my soul in all his fulness. I 
was in the army, and found my way to the Woolwich 
Soldiers Home, where I heard the Gospel ; and for a 
fortnight I was groping in the dark for peace, when 
one evening I heard the singing of Onry trust Him,* 



LIBS^RY 

KNOX COLLEGE 

TORONTO 



214 Sankey s Story 

which brought light into my soul. I have ever since 
been happy, serving Him with my whole heart. I 
am now a missionary to my comrades." 

Onward, Christian Soldiers 

Words by S. Baring-Gould Music by A. S. Sulliran 

"Onward, Christian soldiers! 
Marching as to war." 

Written for a special occasion, the author was 
totally unprepared for the subsequent popularity of 
this hymn. In 1895 he said regarding its composi 
tion : " Whit-Monday is a great day for school festivals 
in Yorkshire. One Whit-Monday, thirty years ago, it 
was arranged that our school should join forces with 
that of a neighboring village. I wanted the children 
to sing when marching from one village to another, but 
couldn t think of anything quite suitable ; so I sat up 
at night, resolved that I would write something myself. 
Onward, Christian soldiers was the result. It was 
written in great haste, and I am afraid some of the 
rhymes are faulty. Certainly nothing has surprised 
me more than its popularity. I don t remember how 
it got printed first, but I know that very soon it found 
its way into several collections. I have written a few 
other hymns since then, but only two or three have 
become at all well-known." The tune to which it is 
now sung is the one by which Sir Arthur Sullivan is 
likely to be known longest to posterity. 

MP 

Mr. Moody would not give out this hymn in con 
nection with his meetings, as he thought it contained 



Of the Gospel Hymns 215 

too much vain boasting. He would exclaim : "We are 
a nice lot of soldiers ! " 



Out of the Shadow-land 

Words by Ira D. Sankey Music by Ira D. Sankey 

" Out of the shadow-land, into the sunshine, 
Cloudless, eternal, that fades not away." 

I wrote this hymn especially for the memorial 
service held for Mr. Moody in Carnegie Hall, where I 
also sang it as a solo. It was the last sacred song to 
which I wrote both the words and music. It has been 
largely adopted in England as a funeral hymn. As it 
does not appear in " Gospel Hymns " the words as 
they are found in " Sacred Songs and Solos " are here 
given in full. 

OUT OF THE SHADOW-LAND 
Out of the shadow-land, into the sunshine, 

Cloudless, eternal, that fades not away; 
Softly and tenderly Jesus will call us; 

Home, where the ransom d are gath ring to-day. 

Chorus. 
Silently, peacefully, angels will bear us 

Into the beautiful mansions above; 
There shall we rest from earth s toiling forever, 

Safe in the arms of God s infinite love. 

Out of the shadow-land, weary and changeful, 

Out of the valley of sorrow and night, 
Into the rest of the life everlasting, 

Into the summer of endless delight. 

Out of the shadow-land, over life s ocean, 

Into the rapture and joy of the Lord, 
Safe in the Father s house, welcomed by angels, 

Ours the bright crown and eternal reward. 



2i6 Sankey s Story 

Over the Line 

Words by Ellen K. Bradford Music by E. H. Phelps 

"Oh, tender and sweet was the Master s voice 
As He lovingly called to me." 

We were holding meetings in Springfield, Massa 
chusetts, in 1878. One day, at the noon meeting in 
City Hall, a minister rose on the platform and bore 
testimony to the way the Lord had blessed one of his 
sons, a Yale student. " My son," he said, "happened 
to be seated beside a gentleman from England in one 
of Mr. Moody s meetings. Tarrying for the after- 
meeting, he was spoken to by the gentleman beside 
him about becoming a Christian. After half an hour 
spent in talking they went out into the street, and the 
gentleman said that he would gladly walk home with 
my son if he had no objection, as he had nothing else 
to do. They came at last to the gate which led to my 
home. Before parting, the earnest Christian worker 
said he would like to offer one more prayer for my 
boy. Holding the young man s hand, he asked that 
the Lord would enable him to decide the great question 
that very night. With this prayer they separated. 
The gentleman left town the next day, and may never 
know how God heard and answered his prayer. 

" My son was greatly impressed. Approaching 
the house, he stopped suddenly, made a deep line across 
the graveled walk with his cane, and said : Now, I 
must decide this question, for or against Christ, to 
night. If I cross the line my life shall be for him ; but 
if I go around it, it will be for the world/ Standing 
there considering the great question with himself for 



Of the Gospel Hymns 217 

a half hour, at last he cried : O God, help me to decide 
aright ! Then he went bounding over the line, and 
came into my room and said : Father, I wish you 
would pray for me ! I have decided to be a Chris 
tian/ The minister said that his heart went out in 
supplication to God to keep and bless his boy. 

This story affected the audience to tears. One of 
the newspapermen, Mr. E. H. Phelps, proprietor of 
one of the leading papers of the city, took down the 
father s story and published it the next morning. And 
Mrs. Bradford, of Palmer, in the same state, after 
reading the incident in the paper, sat down and wrote 
" Over the Line." She sent the hymn to the editor of 
the paper, Mr. Phelps, and he at once set it to music. 
Three days later he handed the song to me. I adapted 
it and had it published in "Gospel Hymns." It has 
been blessed to thousands of souls all over the world, 
leading to the conversion of very many. 

*%* 

" While I was holding a series of revival meetings 
at Brigham, Utah," relates an Iowa clergyman, " a man 
was brought to a full surrender of himself to Christ by 
the singing of the hymn, Over the Line/ The first 
two or three meetings made him very angry, and he 
determined not to go any more; but as the services 
increased in interest his anxiety and troubled mind 
induced him to return, yet only as an observer. He 
remained in the lecture-room, which opened into the 
audience-room. Here he was noticed walking the floor, 
as if in bodily pain. But when at the close of the meet 
ing we sang this hymn, he advanced toward the pulpit, 
made a long step as though stepping over some object, 



2i8 Sankey s Story 

reached out his hand and said in a loud, determined 
voice : * I have stepped over the line. This dramatic 
surrender to Christ and public profession had a power 
ful effect upon the audience, and many more followed 
his example." 

A missionary sends me the following incident : " I 
was holding a gospel meeting one Sunday in a 
Woman s Christian Temperance Union mission. We 
were on our bended knees when the Spirit said to me, 
sing, Over the Line. When we arose I turned to the 
lady at the organ, who had a consecrated voice, and 
said, sing Over the Line/ At the close a man rose 
and spoke as follows : I came away from home and 
family and work two weeks ago in a drunken spree. 
Since I came to your city I have often heard of this 
mission, and was asked to come, but with oaths I re 
fused up to an hour ago, and then I entered this room. 
The same spirit of unbelief possessed me until this lady 
began to sing. Those words went to my heart; they 
were all written for me, and as she sang the last verse 
I crossed the line, I gave myself, and with a deep 
sob He took me/ " 

Pass Me Not 

Words by Fanny J. Crosby Music by W. H. Doane 

"Pass me not, O gentle Saviour, 

Hear my humble cry." 

An earnest Christian pastor told of a young man 
about whom he had long felt much anxiety, as he had 
seemed so unconcerned about his soul, and was, in 
reality, a real cause of disturbance and interruption in 
the classes for other young men. 



Of the Gospel Hymns 219 

Meeting him one day, the loving pastor sought 
once more to influence him, urging, " We want you 
for Christ and his service." There was a certain 
change in his manner which did not escape the eye of 
the prayerful watcher for souls, and lacking time to 
do more he seized the opportunity to secure the pres 
ence of his young friend at a Christian Endeavor meet 
ing soon to be held. True to his promise he was there. 
When an opportunity was given for some of the young 
men to choose a song, it was seen that he was urging 
his companion to select some particular hymn. The 
other, yielding to his request, asked if the hymn, " Pass 
me not, O gentle Saviour," might be sung; and both 
young men joined in the singing with evident interest 
and heartiness. Later in the evening it was requested 
that all who were definitely on the Lord s side would 
confess their allegiance by standing. Whereupon the 
one over whom the heart of the pastor was specially 
yearning rose at once, and with decision. 

" Tell me about your conversion," the thankful 
pastor requested at the close of the meeting, when 
hands were clasped in glad, brotherly welcome and 
recognition. 

" Oh, yes," assented the other. " It was all 
through that hymn we have just sung. I was working 
on the canal at G , and there was a meeting being 
held at the Mariner s Chapel, near by. The words 
floated out over the water, and from the tug where I 
was working I could hear them plainly enough. When 
they were just going to sing those lines 

While on others Thou are calling, 
Do not pass me by! 



22O Sankey s Story 

a great fear came over me, and I thought, Oh, if the 
Lord were to pass me by, how terrible it would be ! 
Then and there, on the tug, I cried out : O Lord, do 
not pass me by. And " with a bright smile " he 
didn t pass me by. I am saved." 



No hymn in our collection was more popular than 
this at our meetings in London in 1874. It was sung 
almost every day in Her Majesty s Theater, in Pall 
Mall, and has been translated into several languages. 

At one of our noonday prayer-meetings in Glas 
gow a prominent gentleman was awakened by the sing 
ing of this hymn. He had been very much opposed to 
our meetings, and his opposition was not lessened 
when he saw his wife converted. That day he had 
agreed to attend the meeting for the last time, as a 
sort of concession; and that was the day when the 
Spirit of God touched him by this hymn. 

Peace ! Be Still ! 

Words by Miss M. A. Baker Music by H. R. Palmer 

"Master, the tempest is raging! 
The billows are tossing high!" 

When a deep and comforting spiritual experience 
finds expression it will surely bring comfort to others, 
as this hymn has done many times. Miss Mary A. 
Baker has told of its origin : 

" Dr. Palmer requested me to prepare several 
songs on the subject of the current Sunday-school les 
sons. One of the themes was Christ Stilling the Tem- 



Of the Gospel Hymns 221 

pest/ It so expressed an experience I had recently 
passed through, that this hymn was the result. A very 
dear and only brother, a young man of rare loveliness 
and promise of character, had been laid in the grave, a 
victim of the same disease that had already taken father 
and mother. His death occurred under peculiarly dis 
tressing circumstances. He was more than a thousand 
miles away from home, seeking in the balmy air of the 
sunny South the healing that our colder climate could 
not give. Suddenly he grew worse. The writer was 
ill and could not go to him. For two weeks the long 
lines of telegraph wires carried back and forth mes 
sages between the dying brother and his waiting sisters, 
ere the word came which told us that our beloved 
brother was no longer a dweller on the earth. Al 
though we mourned not as those without hope, and al 
though I had believed on Christ in early childhood and 
had always desired to give the Master a consecrated 
and obedient life, I became wickedly rebellious at this 
dispensation of divine providence. I said in my heart 
that God did not care for me or mine. But the Master s 
own voice stilled the tempest in my unsanctified heart, 
and brought it to the calm of a deeper faith and a more 
perfect trust. Since then I have given much of my 
time and strength to active temperance work as a mem 
ber of the Woman s Christian Temperance Union. Wit 
nessing the unparalleled suffering that comes to sisters, 
wives and mothers through the legalized curse of our 
land, the rum traffic, which is yearly slaying its thou 
sands and tens of thousands in their early manhood 
and hurrying them into dishonored graves, I have 
come to feel a keen sense of gratitude for the sweet 



222 Sankey s Story 

memories left of my departed brother. God s way is 
best. 

" I supposed that the hymn had done its work 
and gone to rest. But, during the weeks when our 
nation kept watch by the bedside of our greatly be 
loved President Garfield, it was republished as espe 
cially appropriate to the time, and was sung at some of 
the many funeral services held throughout the United 
States. It is quite a surprise to me that this humble 
hymn should have crossed the seas and been sung in 
far distant lands to the honor of the Saviour s name." 



Pull for the Shore 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by P. P. Blisi 

"Light in the darkness, sailor, day is at hand! 
See o er the foaming billows fair Haven s land." 

One one occasion the vessel on which Mr. Moody 
was returning from Europe, accompanied by his oldest 
son, was disabled by the breaking of a propelling shaft. 
Mrs. Moody was at my home in Brooklyn, waiting to 
receive them on their arrival. Day after day passed 
without word from the steamer, and Mrs. Moody be 
came almost frantic with anxiety. At last I received 
this cable dispatch from Mr. Moody : " Saved, thank 
God." I learned afterwards that the people gathered 
around him and begged him to pray for their deliver 
ance. Several infidels on board, who had been mak 
ing light of Mr. Moody s work, were found kneeling 
at his side, and through the earnestness of his prayers 
and divine help they were led to Christ. 



Of the Gospel Hymns 223 

Rescue the Perishing 

Words by Fanny J. Crosby Music by W. H. Doane 

" Rescue the perishing, 
Care for the dying." 

On a stormy night a middle-aged man staggered 
into the Bowery Mission. He was intoxicated, his 
face unwashed and unshaven, and his clothes soiled 
and torn. He sank into a seat, and, gazing around, 
seemed to wonder what kind of a place he had come 
into. " Rescue the perishing " and other gospel hymns 
were sung and seemed to interest him, and to recall 
some memory of his youth long since forgotten. As 
the leader of the meeting told the simple story of the 
Gospel, and how the Lord had come to seek and save 
sinners, the man listened eagerly. The leader in his 
younger days had been a soldier and had seen hard 
and active service. In the course of his remarks he 
mentioned several incidents which had occurred in his 
experience during the war, and he gave the name of 
the company in which he served. At the close of the 
meeting the man eagerly staggered up to the leader 
and in a broken voice said : 

" When were you in that company you spoke of? " 

" Why, all through the war," said the leader. 

" Do you remember the battle of ? " 

" Perfectly." 

" Do you remember the name of the captain of 
your company at that time." 

" Yes, his name was ." 

" You are right ! I am that man. I was your 
captain. Look at me to-day, and see what a wreck I 



224 Sankey s Story 

am. Can you save your old captain? I have lost 
everything I had in the world through drink, and I 
don t know where to go." 

He was saved that night, and was soon helped by 
some of his former friends to get back his old position. 
He often told the story of how a soldier saved his cap 
tain, and how much he loved the words of " Rescue the 
perishing." 

A man in Sussex, England, gives this testimony : 
" I believe I can attribute my conversion, through the 
grace of God, to one verse of that precious hymn, 
Rescue the perishing/ I was far away from my 
Saviour, and living without a hope in Jesus. I was 
very fond of singing hymns, and one day I came across 
this beautiful piece, and when I had sung the words, 

Touched by a loving heart, wakened by kindness, 
Chords that were broken will vibrate once more/ 

I fell upon my knees and gave my heart to the Lord 
Jesus Christ. From that hour I have followed him 
who, through this verse, touched my heart and made 
it vibrate with his praises ever since." 

/^ 

Fanny Crosby returned, one day, from a visit to 
a mission in one of the worst districts in New York 
City, where she had heard about the needs of the lost 
and perishing. Her sympathies were aroused to help 
the lowly and neglected, and the cry of her heart went 
forth in this hymn, which has become a battle-cry for 
the great army of Christian workers throughout the 
world. It has been used very extensively in temper- 



Of the Gospel Hymns 225 

ance work, and has been blessed to thousands of souls. 
Mr. Moody was very fond of it, and has borne testi 
mony to its power to reach the hearts of wanderers. 
It was also a favorite of the two great temperance 
workers, Frances E. Willard and Francis Murphy. 



Rest for the Weary 

Words by the Rev. S. Y. Harmer Music by the Rev. William McDonald 

"In the Christian s home in glory, 
There remains a land of rest;" 

A fifteen-year-old girl, of good family, was pres 
ent at one of our meetings in the Free College Church 
of Glasgow, in 1874, and at the close of the meeting 
remained among the inquirers at the College Hall. 
Here she was spoken to by a lady, and was led to 
Christ. Going home, she told her mother that she 
was now happy in the Lord. That very night she was 
taken sick, symptoms of scarlet fever appearing. Prayer 
was offered for her at the daily prayer-meetings. Per 
haps most of her friends thought that the Lord would 
answer their supplications by restoring her to health ; 
but he had a purpose of another kind. He meant to 
take her away to himself, and to teach others by her 
removal. When it was evident that she was dying 
she told her father that she was going home to Christ. 
Near the end, he tried to sing with her " In the Chris 
tian s home in glory." She caught up the words, 

" There my Saviour s gone before me, 
To fulfill my soul s request." 

and faithfully repeated them. Her voice died away; 



226 Sankey s Story 

those were the last words she was heard to utter. 
Before this she had sent a message of thanks to Mr. 
Moody and myself, and to the lady who had led her 
to Christ. 

" Ah," said Mr. Moody, in telling of this, " would 
not any one have regretted missing the opportunity of 
helping this soul, who has sent back her thanks from 
the very portals of glory ? " 

Ring the Bells of Heaven 

Words by William O. Gushing Music by George F. Root 

"Ring the bells of heaven! there is joy to-day 
For a soul, returning from the wild." 

" Ring the bells of heaven was written," says 
the author, " to fit a beautiful tune sent me by George 
F. Root, entitled, The little Octoroon/ After receiv 
ing it, the melody ran in my head all day long, chiming 
and flowing in its sweet musical cadence. I wished 
greatly that I might secure the tune for work in the 
Sunday-school and for other Christian purposes. When 
I heard the bells of heaven ringing over some sinner 
that had returned, it seemed like a glad day in heaven. 
Then the words Ring the bells of heaven/ at once 
flowed down into the waiting melody. It was a beau- 
tiful and blessed experience, and the bells seem ringing 
yet." 

^ 

f\. little girl in England, who was much beloved 
by her parents, was dying. She had been very fond 
of our hymns and would often speak of how much 
she loved them. A few days before she died she said 



Of the Gospel Hymns 227 

to her mother : " When I am gone, mother, will you 
ask the girls of the school to sing that hymn, 

Ring the bells of heaven! There is joy to-day, 

For a soul returning from the wild; 
See! the Father meets him out upon the way, 

Welcoming His weary, wandering child! 
Glory! glory! how the angels sing! 
Glory! glory! how the loud harps ring! " 

Half an hour before her departure she exclaimed : 
" Oh, mother, listen to the bells of heaven ! they are 
ringing so beautifully ! " 

Rock of Ages 

Words by A. M. Toplady Music by Dr. Thomas Hastings 

"Rock of Ages, cleft for me, 
Let me hide myself in Thee." 

In the year 1756 a young man of sixteen, while 
visiting with his mother in Ireland, attended an evan 
gelistic meeting held in a barn at the little village of 
Codymain. At this meeting the young man was con 
verted. He was none other than Augustus Montague 
Toplady, who afterwards wrote this famous hymn. 
Of his conversion the author says : " Strange that I, 
who had so long sat under the means in England, 
should be brought right unto God in an obscure part 
of Ireland, midst a handful of people met together in 
a barn, and by the ministry of one who could hardly 
spell his own name. Surely it was the Lord s doing, 
and is marvelous." 

At the age of twenty-two Toplady received orders 
in the Church of England. He was a strong Calvin- 



228 Sankey s Story 

1st, and the author of many popular hymns. He died 
in 1778. " Rock of Ages " was first published in 1776, 
in " The Gospel Magazine," of which he was the 
editor. The hymn has been more or less altered and 
rearranged several times since then, but the sentiment 
remains the same. 

It was to this hymn that the beloved Prince Con 
sort, Albert of England, turned, repeating it constantly 
upon his deathbed. " For," said he, " if in this hour 
I had only my worldly honors and dignities to depend 
upon, I should be poor indeed." 

i*t 

Mrs. L. S. Bainbridge, who, with her husband, vis 
ited China for the purpose of studying Christian mis 
sions, tells the following incident : " The Chinese 
women, it seems, are so anxious to make merit for 
themselves, that they will perform any labor to escape 
the painful transmigrations of the next life. They 
dread to be born again as dogs or cats, and the highest 
hope possessed by them is to be reborn as men. In 
order to secure this they do any and every meritorious 
act. One woman had excavated with her poor, weak 
hands a well twenty feet deep, and it was only after 
this achievement that she learned of the free Gospel 
of salvation. She was now a woman of eighty, and, 
stretching out her aged and crippled fingers, we sang 
together, 

Nothing in my hand I bring, 

Simply to Thy cross I cling. " 

*% 

Years ago, when a ship sank in the Bay of Biscay, 
a man who was saved was asked what the passengers 



Of the Gospel Hymns 229 

were doing when the ship went down. He said that 
the last he heard was " Rock of Ages," sung by all 
who could join in it. 



Several tunes have been written for this hymn, 
the most popular one, however, being the tune by Dr. 
Thomas Hastings, who was born at Washington, Con 
necticut, in 1784, and who died in New York in 1872. 
He wrote many hymns and published several hymn- 
books. I have in my possession a large number of 
hymns set to music by Mr. Hastings which have never 
been published. 



Safe in the Arms of Jesus 

Words by Fanny J. Crosby Music by W. H. Doane 

"Safe in the arms of Jesus, 
Safe on His gentle breast." 

Mr. Doane came into a room in New York, once, 
where Fanny Crosby was talking with Mr. Bradbury, 
the father of Sunday-school music, and said to her: 
" Fanny, I have written a tune and I want you to write 
words for it." 

" Let me hear how the tune goes," she replied. 
After Mr. Doane had played it over for her on a small 
organ, she at once exclaimed : " Why, that tune says, 
* Safe in the arms of Jesus/ and I will see what I can 
do about it." 

She at once retired to an adjoining room, where 
she spent half an hour alone. On returning she 
quoted to Mr. Doane the words of this now immortal 



230 Sankefs Story 

hymn. It was first published in the book entitled 
" Songs of Devotion." 



A party of steerage passengers were gathered one 
foggy day below decks on an Allan liner near the en 
trance of the Belle Isle Straits. They were cold and 
cheerless and weary of the voyage, though only two 
days out, and a lady had come down to talk and sing 
to them. The subject was " Stepping over the line," 
and the song was " Safe in the arms of Jesus." She 
told the story of a young sailor, who was summoned to 
his mother s death-bed. "Willie," said the mother, 
looking up at him with tearful eyes, " sing to me once 
more Safe in the arms of Jesus/ " Mother," he 
replied, " I can t sing that song. It would be a lie ; I 
am not safe, and I can t sing a lie." The speaker said 
that she thanked God that the young sailor afterward 
stepped over the line and was safe. After the story 
was told and a hymn sung, a man suddenly left his 
place among the listeners. The lady was troubled. 
Had she offended him or was his conscience stricken ? 
She watched for him day after day, but a storm suc 
ceeded the fog, and it was not until the last day of the 
voyage that she saw him again. Then, while the vessel 
was moored in Moville Harbor, and all was bustle on 
deck, the tall Scotchman sought her, saying : 

" Oh, I am so glad that I have found you again ! 
I could not leave without thanking you for those 
words you sang, Safe in the arms of Jesus. I felt 
that I could not sing that hymn, as I was not safe. I 
have been to church all my life, and have taken the 
sacrament ; but I was not safe, and I could not sing it. 



Of the Gospel Hymns 231 

Then came the storm and I was miserable, for I 
thought we might go to the bottom and I should be 
lost." 

" And what did you do then ? " asked the lady. 

" Why, I remembered how you said that we might 
trust the Lord Jesus to save us now and I did trust 
him right there in my berth. I stepped over the line, 
and now I can praise him, for I am safe in his arms, 
and I wish to live to his glory." 



Two little girls were playing in a corner of the 
nursery with their dolls, and singing as they played, 
" Safe in the arms of Jesus, safe on his gentle breast." 
Their mother was writing, only stopping now and then 
to listen to the little ones talk, unobserved by them. 

" Sister, how do you know that you are safe ? " 
asked Nellie, the youngest. 

" Because I am holding Jesus with both my hands 
tight ! " was the reply. 

"Ah, that is not safe," said Nellie. "Suppose 
Satan came along and cut your two hands off ! " 

The sister looked much troubled for a few mo 
ments, dropped her doll and thought deeply. Sud 
denly her face shone with joy, and she cried out, " Oh ! 
I forgot! I forgot! Jesus is holding me with his two 
hands, and Satan can t cut his hands off ; so I am safe i" 

f^t 

A party of friends, traveling in the Alps, com 
menced to sing the first verse of this hymn, when, 
much to their surprise, they heard the second verse 
taken up on another mountain peak, as a response ; and 



232 Sankey s Story 

though the two parties of tourists could not see each 
other, they sang the alternate verses and passed on 

their way. 

&lt;%* 

A gentleman of London writes me as follows: 
" My dear little girl Mary, aged six, greatly loved the 
hymn, Safe in the arms of Jesus, and, having learned 
the tune, was continually singing it. One day, having 
a longing, wistful look in her eyes after singing it, I 
said to her : What are you thinking of, darling ? She 
answered : * I do want to go and be with Jesus/ I 
asked her what I should do without her, she being my 
only little girl. She sighed and said : Very well, then 
I won t go just yet, though I should like to. A few 
weeks after this she was seized with scarlet fever of 
a very malignant type. She was buried in six days. 
The morning she was taken ill she said to her little 
brother, who was ill in the same room : Look here, 
Willie, I can find my own hymn myself now, " Safe in 
the arms of Jesus." ; She showed it to Willie, who 
asked if they should sing it. No/ she said, I can t 
sing with my head this way. She then became de 
lirious and never spoke rationally again. She soon 
took her flight to the arms of Jesus, where she had so 
longed to be." 

At the close of one of our meetings in the Circus 
in Glasgow a woman came to me when I was seated 
with an inquirer. After waiting until I was at liberty, 
she said : " Mr. Sankey, I want to tell you something 
about my daughter Maggie. She was converted when 
you were here eight years ago, but has now gone home 



Of the Gospel Hymns 233 

to heaven, and I want to tell you what she said when 
she was dying. She asked me to get her little hymn- 
book, and when I brought it she asked me to turn to 
No. 25, saying, I want to sing it. Why, my child/ 
said I, you are not able to sing. Yes, She said, I 
want to sing one more song before I go; will you 
please turn to the twenty-fifth hymn, "Safe in the arms 
of Jesus." I found it for her and she began to sing 
at these lines, 

Hark! tis the voice of angels, 

Borne in a song to me, 
Over the fields of glory, 
Over the jasper sea. 

Her voice then seemed to fail her, and she said: 
Mother, lift me up/ I put my arms under her and 
lifted my poor girl up, and then she raised her eyes 
to heaven and said : Jesus, I am coming ; Jesus, I am 
coming/ The doctor, who was standing by her side, 
said : How can you sing when you are so weak ? She 
replied: Jesus helps me to sing; Jesus helps me to 
sing/ And with those words upon her lips, she died 
in my arms." The mother said that she took the little 
hymn-book and laid it upon the girl s breast ; it was 
buried with her. 



Once when laboring in London I went to Basel, 
Switzerland, for a few days rest. The evening I got 
there I heard under my window the most beautiful 
volume of song. I looked out and saw about fifty 
people, who were singing " Safe in the arms of Jesus, 
safe on his gentle breast " in their own language, but 



234 Sankey s Story 

I recognized the tune. I spoke to them through an 
interpreter. The next evening I held a song service 
in an old French church in that city. The church was 
packed with people, and many stood outside on the 
street. 



Dr. John Hall, of the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian 
Church, in New York, said of this hymn, in a great 
Sunday-school convention in Brooklyn, that it gave 
more peace and satisfaction to mothers who had lost 
their children than any other hymn he had ever known. 
It has become very famous throughout the world, and 
was one of the first American hymns to be translated 
into foreign languages. 

&lt;^ 

Fanny Crosby is one of the most celebrated of 
hymn-writers, and has written more than five thousand 
hymns, many of which have become very widely 
known. She was born in 1820, and lost her eyesight 
when six months old, through the ignorant application 
of a hot poultice to her eyes. In 1835 she entered the 
New York Institution for the Blind, where she was 
graduated in 1842. She was a teacher at this insti 
tution from 1847 to ^58, when she was married to 
Mr. Alexander Van Alstyne, who also was blind. Mrs. 
Van Alstyne has written her hymns under her maiden 
name. 

The Rev. Dr. George Duffield, just before his 
death, said of her work : " I rather think her talent 
will stand beside that of Watts and Wesley, especially 
if we take into consideration the number of hymns 



Of the Gospel Hymns 235 

she has written." At her present age of eighty-five 
she is still active, and she is always happy. 

Saved by Grace 

Words by Fanny J. Crosby Music by George C. Stebbins 

"Some day the silver cord will break, 
And I no more as now shall sing." 

In 1894 Mr. Moody and I were holding meetings 
in England. It was decided between us that Mr. 
Moody should remain in England while I returned to 
America to assist Dr. A. J. Gordon, of Boston, in con 
ducting the Summer Conference in Northfield. I was 
entertaining Fanny Crosby in my summer home there. 
One evening I asked the popular hymn-writer if she 
would make a short address to her many friends gath 
ered at the convention. She at first declined, but on 
further persuasion she consented to speak for a few 
moments. I led her forward to the desk on which lay 
the Bible and, standing there, she spoke beautifully 
for a short time. Closing her remarks, she recited a 
hymn never before heard in public, entitled " Saved by 
Grace." 

I afterward learned that my friend, L. H. Biglow 
after attending a prayer-meeting conducted by the 
late Dr. Howard Crosby, where the subject was 
" Grace " had asked Fanny Crosby to write a hymn 
on that subject. She immediately retired to an adjoin 
ing room, and in the course of an hour returned with 
the words, "Some day the silver cord will break, and 
I no more as now shall sing." Mr. Biglow secured 
the words from her, and put them in the safe among 
other hymns which she had written ; but the song was 



236 Sankey s Story 

evidently forgotten until recited by its author at 
Northfield. 

A reporter of a London paper who was present 
at Northfield took her address, and also the hymn, 
which he carried back to England and published 
in his paper, thus sending it around the world. Four 
or five weeks later I found it in a copy of his paper. 
Cutting it out, I handed it to George C. Stebbins, ask 
ing him to set it to music. During the following years 
the song became one of Mr. Moody s favorites, and is 
now sung by hundreds of thousands of people through 
out the world. 

-^ 

A newspaper of Allegheny, Pennsylvania, recently 
gave this incident in startling headlines : 

" The congregation of Christ Protestant Episco 
pal Church, Union Avenue, Allegheny, the Rev. Rob 
ert Meech, rector, was startled yesterday morning by a 
sensational supplement to the morning service. The 
church was well filled and devout worshipers responded 
to the service as read by the rector. The reading had 
been concluded, and the rector was about to make the 
usual announcements of future services when an inci 
dent occurred such as old Christ Church had never 
dreamed of. Out of the usual line in a church of this 
denomination, it was nevertheless marked in its effect, 
and will never be forgotten by those present. 

" In the fourth pew from the front aisle of the 
church sat a neatly-dressed woman of intellectual face, 
apparently about thirty years of age. Her presence 
as a stranger had been noticed by many, and her deep, 
tearful interest in the service had been quietly com- 



Of the Gospel Hymns 237 

merited on by those who occupied the adjoining pews. 
At the point mentioned she rose to her feet and, strug 
gling with emotion, began to speak. The startled con 
gregation was all attention, and she was allowed to 
proceed. Rapidly and eloquently she told of her going 
out from the church and of her return to it. In 
graphic words she painted the hideousness of sin and 
the joys of a pure life, and as she spoke men and 
women gave way to their emotions and listened breath 
lessly to the end of the narration. 

" I was christened in this church," she said, " and 
attended Sunday-school in the basement when good 
old Dr. Paige was rector. My mother was a devout 
member here, and taught me the right way. At the 
age of fifteen I deserted my home and married an actor. 
For a number of years I followed the profession, lead 
ing such a life as naturally accompanies it. In dra 
matic circles, in variety business, and in the circus, I 
spent those godless years. 

" About two years ago I was in the city of Chi 
cago. One afternoon I was on my way to Ferris 
Wheel Park to spend the afternoon in revelry, when 
I happened on the open-air meeting which the Epworth 
League of Grace Methodist Episcopal Church was con 
ducting on North Park Street. I stopped through 
curiosity, as I believed, to listen ; but I know now that 
God arrested my footsteps there. They were singing 
Saved by Grace/ and the melody impressed me. 
Recollections of my childhood days came trooping 
into my soul, and I remembered that in all the years 
of my absence my mother, until her death nine years 
ago, had been praying for me. 



238 Sankey s Story 

" I was converted and, falling on my knees on the 
curbstone, I asked the Father s pardon. Then and 
there I received it, and I left the place with a peace 
which has never forsaken me. I gave up my business 
at once and have lived for his service ever since. I 
have been but a few days in this city. Last night I 
visited the Hope Mission, and the Lord told me I must 
come here and testify what he had done for me. I 
have not been in this building for many years, but it 
seems only yesterday that I left it. I have been sit 
ting in the pew directly opposite the one once occupied 
by my mother and myself, and I feel her presence to 
day. I could not resist the impulse to give this testi 
mony. The Lord sent me here." 

The congregation was profoundly impressed. The 
rector descended from the chancel and, approaching 
the speaker, with tears in his eyes, bade her Godspeed. 
The service went on. At its conclusion many mem 
bers of the congregation shook hands with the stranger 
and told of their impressions. A stranger might have 
imagined himself in a Methodist Episcopal church, so 
intense was the feeling. The strange visitor departed 
with a sense of duty done. All she said was : " I feel 
that the Lord Jesus and mother have been here." 

Saviour, More than Life 

Words by Fanny J. Crosby Music by W. H. Doane 

"Saviour, more than life to me, 
I am clinging, clinging close to Thee." 

Tune preceded words in this instance. It was in 
1875 that Mr. Doane sent the tune to Fanny Crosby, 
and requested her to write a hymn entitled " Every 



Of the Gospel Hymns 239 

day and hour." Her response in the form of this hymn 
gave the blind hymn-writer great comfort and filled 
her heart with joy. She felt sure that God would 
bless the hymn to many hearts. Her hope has been 
most fully verified, for millions have been refreshed 
and strengthened as they have sung it. At the sug 
gestion of Mr. D. W. McWilliams, who was superin 
tendent of Dr. Cuyler s Sunday-school for twenty-five 
years, it was put into "Gospel Hymns." 

Scatter Seeds of Kindness 

Words by Mrs. Albert Smith Music by S. J. Vail 

"Let us gather up the sunbeams, 
Lying all around our path." 

For many years this was the favorite hymn of 
Francis Murphy, the great temperance lecturer, and 
was the keynote of all his meetings. I had the pleas 
ure of attending many of his services in Chicago, and 
have seen him move an audience to tears by his pa 
thetic rendering of this hymn. It is believed that thou 
sands of drinking men have been saved through its 
instrumentality. 

I had the pleasure of meeting the author of this 
hymn in Illinois in 1878, and was surprised to learn 
that she herself was childless, although very fond of 
children, as shown in the tender expressions in the 
latter portion of the hymn : 

" How those little hands remind us, 

As in snowy grace they lie, 
Not to scatter thorns but roses 
For our reaping by and by." 



240 Sankey s Story 

Shall We Meet ? 

Words by Horace L. Hastings Music by Elihu S. Rice 

"Shall we meet beyond the river, 
Where the surges cease to roll?" 

While secretary and chorister of the Baptist Sun 
day-school at Logansport, Mr. Rice composed the 
music of this song and sent it to the Rev. Robert 
Lowry, then editor of the musical department of the 
" Young Reaper," a Sunday-school paper published in 
Philadelphia. It was accepted and first published in 
that periodical. Years passed before the composer 
realized its popularity. 

"The first notice I received," he says, "of the 
favorable reception of Shall we meet by the musical 
public was from Mr. Sankey, in a very kind letter writ 
ten in August, 1879, thirteen years after its first pub 
lication. While music has been written for those 
words by a number of eminent musical composers, I 
have the satisfaction of knowing that my music has 
received the choice and approval of Mr. Hastings, the 
author of the words." 

Shall You? Shall I? 

Words by James McGranahan Music by James McGraaahan 

"Some one will enter the pearly gate 
By and by, by and by." 

An active minister in the West in his boyhood 
attended our meetings in Madison Square Garden, and 
he says that his soul was thrilled by the singing there. 
He writes to me, also, of this personal experience : " I 
was passing through a town where I was known. At 



Of the Gospel Hymns 241 

the close of a service which I had attended the min 
ister asked me to sing a solo. Picking up Gospel 
Hymns/ I sang, 

Some one will enter the pearly gate 
By and by, by and by. . . . 
Shall you? Shall I? 

" In the audience was a well-educated man, clearly 
under the influence of liquor. He afterward said that 
he forgot or failed to hear the very able sermon. But 
he heard the song ; and for days after * Shall you ? 
Shall I ? kept ringing in his ears, until he finally had 
to give his heart to God. He is now a faithful min 
ister in the Methodist church." 

Singing All the Time 

Words by E. P. Hammond Music by George C. Stebbins 

" I feel like singing all the time, 
My tears are wiped away." 

" One day in a children s meeting in Utica, New 
York," the Rev. E. P. Hammond writes me, " while I 
was explaining how Jesus loved us and gave himself 
for us, I noticed a bright-looking girl bursting into 
tears. She remained at the inquiry-meeting, and with 
others was soon happy in the love of Christ. The next 
day she handed me a letter of which this is a part : I 
think I have found the dear Jesus, and I do not see 
how I could have rejected him so long. I think I can 
sing with the rest of those who have found him, Jesus 
is mine. The first time I came to the meetings I cried, 
but now I feel like singing all the time/ This prompted 
me to write the hymn, but I had no thought of its ever 



242 Sankey s Story 

being sung, although it almost seemed as if I could 
hear her singing : 

I feel like singing all the time, 

My tears are wiped away, 
For Jesus is a friend of mine, 
I ll serve him every day. 

" Mr. Spurgeon was very fond of this hymn. At 
the first meeting in his building one of his deacons said 
to me, This Tabernacle will seat six thousand grown 
people, but there are eight thousand crowded into it 
to-day. Three thousand could not get in on account 
of the crowd. Every child had one of our hymn-books, 
and all united in singing this hymn which they loved 
so much. It has been sung in our meetings in nearly 
every state in the Union, and translated into many lan 
guages. We sang it in our daily meetings in Jerusa 
lem, near where Christ was crucified, and away in 
Alaska, two thousand miles north of San Francisco. 
Thousands of children sang it in Norway and Sweden, 
day after day. 

" A little boy, who felt himself a great sinner in 
not having loved Jesus, was led by God s spirit to 
believe, and his burden was gone. Bright smiles took 
the place of tears, and with the happy throng he was 
soon joining in the song, I feel like singing all the 
time. Little did I then think that years afterward I 
would find that same boy the pastor of a large church 
in Minneapolis, rejoicing that so many of his own 
Sunday-school were able to join in the same hymn 
which he sang when his heart was filled with a new 
found love for Christ. It was largely through his in 
fluence that during one week of our meetings in Min- 



Of the Gospel Hymns 243 

neapolis, last spring, about seven hundred confessed 
conversion. I received in one day at Newark, New 
Jersey, more than two hundred letters from those who 
had just professed to have found Christ in our meet 
ings. Many of those young converts, in giving what 
they believed to be the story of their conversion, often 
put in the words, Now I feel like singing all the 



Something for Jesus 

Words by S. D. Phelps Music by Robert Lowry 

"Saviour! Thy dying love 
Thou gavest me." 

Professor W. F. Sherwin was holding a Sunday- 
school institute in Maine on one occasion. This hymn 
was used in the exercises, and a young lawyer was so 
much affected by the singing of the third verse that 
it was the means of changing all his plans for life. He 
consecrated himself to Christ s service, and thereafter 
devoted himself with his whole heart to evangelistic 

work. 

f^t 

" A large family joined my church lately," says a 
minister in Glasgow. " The mother told me that, while 
a stranger in the city, she had happened to drop into 
our chapel, when she was quite overcome. Her heart 
was lifted up as the people sang, Saviour ! Thy dying 

love. " 

MP 

Now famous in many lands, this hymn was first 
published more than forty years ago in the " Watch- 



244 Sankey s Story 

man and Reflector," and from there it was copied by 
various other religious papers. Dr. Robert Lowry re 
quested the author, the Rev. Mr. Phelps, to furnish 
some hymns for the hymn-book, " Pure Gold," which 
he and W. H. Doane were preparing, and among others 
which Mr. Phelps contributed was " Saviour ! Thy 
dying love." Dr. Lowry composed for it the tune with 
which it will always be associated. On the author s 
seventieth birthday nine years before his death in 
I&Q5 Mr. Phelps received this congratulation from 
Dr. Lowry: 

" It is worth living seventy years, even if nothing 
comes of it but one such hymn as Saviour! Thy dying 
love/ Happy is the man who can produce one song 
which the world will keep on singing after its author 
shall have passed away." 

Sometime We ll Understand 

Words by Maxwell N. Cornelius, D D. Music by James McGranahan 

"Not now, but in the coming years, 
It may be in the better land." 

Mr. Cornelius was brought up on a farm in my 
own county in Pennsylvania. He left farming when 
he came of age, and learned the trade of a brick-mason. 
Later he became a contractor in Pittsburg. In erecting 
a house in that city his leg was broken. The physi 
cians decided that it would have to be amputated, and 
they gave him a week in which to get ready for the 
ordeal. My own physician was sent for to assist at 
the operation. When the day arrived the young man 
said that he was ready, but asked for his violin, that 
he might plav one more tune perhaps the last one he 






Of the Gospel Hymns 245 

would ever play. Whatever the tune was, the melody 
was so sweet that it caused even the physicians to 
weep. He stood the operation well and came out 
safely, but was maimed for life. He now decided to 
go to college and get an education. After passing 
through college with honor he concluded to become a 
minister of the gospel. His first charge was at Al- 
toona, Pennsylvania, but on account of his wife s health 
he soon removed to California, locating at Pasa 
dena, where he built the largest Presbyterian church 
in that place. Many who had subscribed to help to 
pay for the building failed in business, and he was 
left to meet the obligations as best he could. But in 
a few years he had the church cleared from all debt. 
Shortly afterward his wife died. He preached the 
funeral sermon himself. At the conclusion he quoted 
the words of this hymn, which he had composed 
shortly before. Both the words of the hymn and the 
sermon were printed in a Western newspaper, where 
Major Whittle found them. Impressed by their 
beauty, he cut them out and carried them in his Bible 
for three months before he wrote the chorus : 

"Then trust in God through all thy days; 
Fear not! for He doth hold thy hand; 
Though dark thy way, still sing and praise; 
Sometime, sometime we ll understand." 

Soon after he handed the words to his friend, 
James McGranahan, who composed the tune to which 

the hymn is now sung. 

^ 

While Mr. Moody and I were holding meetings in 
the great Convention Hall in Washington, in 1894, one 



246 Sankey s Story 

evening he requested me to go to an overflow meeting 
in the Second Presbyterian Church. I sang " Some 
time We ll Understand " as a solo, and I told how 
Major Whittle had found it. At the conclusion of the 
meeting a lady came forward to the platform, and said 
" That hymn was written by my pastor ;" and for the 
first time I learned who had written the beautiful words 
of the hymn I loved so much. A year or two later I 
sang this hymn in the Church of the Covenant in 
Washington. The late Secretary of State, John Hay, 
was present. He was much moved by the song, and 
at the conclusion of the service came forward and 
thanked me. While we were talking a young lady 
with her husband came up to me and said that she was 
the daughter of Dr. Cornelius, the author of the hymn, 
and hoped that God would continually bless my singing 
of the song. 

At one of our crowded meetings in the Free As 
sembly Hall in Edinburgh, Scotland, Mr. Moody called 
to the platform Lord Overtoun, who changed the meet 
ing into a memorial service for the Prince of Wales 
eldest son, the Duke of Clarence, who had recently 
died in England. After a number of addresses had 
been made by ministers and others, Lord Overtoun 
asked a member of my choir, Miss Jane Darling, if she 
had any song suitable to the occasion. I had gone to 
Dunfirmline to commence meetings there. Miss Dar 
ling took her seat at my little organ and sung in the 
most touching and pathetic manner the hymn, " Some 
time We ll Understand." At the conclusion of the 
meeting Lord Overtoun sent a dispatch to the Princess 
.of Wales, including in the message three of the verses 



Of the Gospel Hymns 247 

of the hymn. The same evening he received a dispatch 
from the Princess, thanking him for the verses. A 
few days later Miss Darling had the hymn beautifully 
engrossed upon parchment and forwarded it to the 
Princess. 

Stand Up for Jesus 

Words by George Duffield Music by G. J. Webb 

"Stand up! stand up for Jesus! 
Ye soldiers of the cross." 

In the " Great Work of God " of 1858, in Phila 
delphia, the Rev. Dudley Tyng was the recognized 
leader. While standing by a piece of farm machinery 
on his place, the sleeve of his coat became entangled 
in the gearing. His arm was drawn into the machin 
ery and torn off, and he died soon after. In the prime 
of his life he was taken away from the direction of that 
great revival movement. But his dying message to his 
associates in the work, " Stand up for Jesus/ supplied 
the theme for this hymn. It was written by the Rev. 
George Duffield, and was read at the close of a sermon 
which he delivered on the Sunday following the death 
of his friend. Set to the tune composed by Mr. Webb, 
this hymn has become famous and useful. 

Substitution 

Words by Mrs. A. R. Cousin Music by Ira D. Sankey 

"O Christ, what burdens bowed Thy head! 
Our load was laid on Thee." 

Written in Melrose, Scotland, by the author of 
the immortal poem, " Immanuel s Land," this hymn 
was sent to me by a minister in Dublin ; and in the let- 



248 Sankeys Story 

ter conveying the verses he remarked : " It is said of 
you that you sing the Gospel, and I am sure that if 
you will sing the enclosed there will be no question 
as to the truth of that assertion." I then wrote the 
music and sang it in one of Mr. Moody s meetings, 
where it was blessed to the saving of two persons the 

first time it was sung, according to their own testimony. 

^f 

A young officer in the British army turned away 
in horror from the doctrine of this hymn. His pride 
revolted, his self-righteousness rose in rebellion, and 
he said : " He would be a coward indeed who would 
go to heaven at the cost of another! " As the years 
rolled away this man rose to distinction and high rank 
in the army, and he also learned wisdom. In his last 
hours, as he lay on his deathbed, he repeatedly begged 
those near him to sing " O Christ, what burdens 
bowed Thy head ;" calling it, " My hymn, my hymn ! " 

tOt 

A gunner of the royal artillery was attending the 
Old Soldiers Home in Woolwich during the spring of 
1886. The chief attraction to him at first was the 
night-school. From this he was eventually led to join 
the Bible-class and attend the Sunday evening service 
in the Hall. Seeing that he looked very unhappy and 
that he lingered after the meeting, one night, a worker 
asked him if anything was troubling him. The tears 
came to his eyes at once, and he said : " I want to be a 
Christian, but I am afraid that I am too bad." He then 
told how on the previous Sunday evening, when this 
hymn was sung, he was so overpowered by the 
thought of what the Lord had endured for our sins 



Of the Gospel Hymns 249 

that after the first verse he could not sing. The solemn 
words were fixed in his memory, and had troubled him 
all the week, until he came to the great Burden-bearer. 

Sweet By-and-By 

Words by S. Fillmore Bennett Music by Joseph P. Webster 

"There s a land that is fairer than day, 
And by faith we can see it afar." 

Mr. Bennett, the author of this world-famed hymn, 
has this to say about its origin : 

" In 1861 I became a resident of the village of 
Elkhorn, Wisconsin, the home of the composer, J. P. 
Webster; and shortly after became associated with 
him in the production of sheet music (songs) and other 
musical works. In the summer or fall of the year 
1867 we commenced work on The Signet Ring/ One 
of the songs written for that book was Sweet By- 
and-By." Mr. Webster, like many musicians, was of 
an exceedingly nervous and sensitive nature, and sub 
ject to periods of depression, in which he looked upon 
the dark side of all things in life. I had learned his 
peculiarities so well that on meeting him I could tell 
at a glance if he was in one of his melancholy moods, 
and I found that I could rouse him from them by giv 
ing him a new song or hymn to work on. On such an 
occasion he came into my place of business, walked 
down to the stove, and turned his back to me without 
speaking. I was at my desk writing. Presently I 
said: 

" Webster, what is the matter now? 

" It is no matter, he replied ; it will be all right 
by and by ! 



250 Sankey s Story 

" The idea of the hymn came to me like a flash of 
sunlight, and I replied : The sweet by and by ! Would 
that not make a good hymn ? 

" Maybe it would/ said he indifferently. 

" Turning to the desk I penned the three verses 
and the chorus as fast as I could write. In the mean 
time two friends, Mr. N. H. Carswell and Mr. S. E. 
Bright, had come in. I handed the hymn to Mr. Web 
ster. As he read it his eye kindled, and his whole de 
meanor changed. Stepping to the desk, he began 
writing the notes in a moment. Presently he re 
quested Mr. Bright to hand him his violin, and then 
he played the melody. In a few moments more he 
had the notes for the four parts of the chorus jotted 
down. I think it was not over thirty minutes from 
the time I took my pen to write the words before the 
two gentlemen, Mr. Webster and I were singing the 
hymn in the same form in which it afterward appeared 
in The Signet Ring/ While singing it Mr. R. R. 
Crosby came in. After listening awhile, with tears in 
his eyes, he uttered the prediction : That hymn is 
immortal/ I think it was used in public shortly after, 
for within two weeks children on the streets were sing 
ing it." 

" Next year the publishers of The Signet Ring 
heralded its advent by distributing a large number of 
circulars upon which selections from the work were 
printed, among them * Sweet By-and-By/ These cir 
culars first brought the hymn to the notice of the pub 
lic, and created the principal demand for the book. 
Toward the close of that year the hymn was published 
in sheet-music form. It is now in numerous collec- 



Of the Gospel Hymns 251 

tions of vocal music in America, and, as a newspaper 
account says, It is translated into various foreign 
languages and sung in every land under the sun/ 

" Webster, Crosby and Carswell are dead. S. E. 
Bright, of Fort Atkinson, Wisconsin, and myself are 
the only remaining living witnesses to the birth of 
Sweet By-and-By. " 

Sweet Peace, the Gift of God s Love 

Words by Peter P. Bilhorn Music by Peter P. Bilhora 

"There comes to my heart one sweet strain, 
A glad and a joyous refrain." 

The author of this well-known and popular hymn, 
a gifted evangelist and Gospel singer, was born in 
Mendota, Illinois, in 1861. His father was killed near 
the close of the war, and at eight years of age he had 
to leave school to help his mother. Though the edu 
cation of books was thus denied him, yet through won 
derful ways of Providence he has been able to read 
in the great book of human nature, and his knowledge 
of men is as great as his influence and power for good 
over them. At the age of fifteen he moved with his 
family to Chicago, where his voice was a great attrac 
tion in concert-halls and among worldly comrades. 
He was standing by a piano in a German concert-hall, 
one day in 1881, when a Christian worker entered and 
persuaded him to attend one of the revival meetings 
in Mr. Moody s church being conducted by Dr. Pen 
tecost and Mr. Stebbins. He was interested, and for 
twelve nights he attended regularly. On the twelfth 
night he heard a sermon from the words, " Christ hath 
redeemed us," and he gave his heart to God. Shortly 



252 Sankeys Story 

afterward he engaged in mission work in all parts of 
Chicago, wherever and whenever he could make him 
self useful, at the same time studying music under Pro 
fessor George F. Root. After two years he went to 
work among the cowboys in the West, where he had 
many thrilling experiences. Since then Mr. Bilhorn 
has devoted his talents entirely to the work of singing 
the Gospel, and to-day he is ranked among the leaders 
of evangelistic work in song. 

Take Me as I Am 

Words by Eliza H. Hamilton Music by Ira D. Sankey 

"Jesus, my Lord, to Thee I cry; 
Unless Thou help me I must die." 

Years ago, while revival meetings were being 
held in one of the large towns in Scotland, a young 
girl became anxious about her spiritual condition. Re 
turning from one of the meetings, she went to her 
own minister and asked him how she might be saved. 

" Ah, lassie," he said, " don t be alarmed ! Just 
read your Bible and say your prayers, and you will 
be all right." 

But the poor, illiterate girl cried out : " O Min 
ister, I canna read, I canna pray! Lord Jesus, take 
me as I am ! " 

In this way the girl became a follower of Christ ; 
and a lady who heard of the girl s experience wrote 
this hymn, " Take Me as I Am." I found the verses 
in a religious newspaper, and set them to the simple 
music by which they are now most generally known. 
At the same time Mr. Stebbins also found the verses 
and set them to music, and he sent them to me at the 



Of the Gospel Hymns 253 

same time that I was sending my tune for the same 
words to him. In " Gospel Hymns " both tunes are 
published. 

A minister in England writes to me about a Chris 
tian woman, a shoemaker s wife, who had a lodger that 
was an obstinate unbeliever. " The good woman often 
tried to induce him to go to meetings, but in vain. 
Tracts which she placed on the table in his room she 
found crushed on the floor. She would smooth them 
out and again place them so as to attract his attention, 
but he would read nothing but his novels and news 
papers. One spring the old man fell ill with bron 
chitis. The good woman acted as his nurse, for he 
had no relatives who cared for him. She used the 
opportunity, often speaking to him about his soul and 
reading the Word of God ; but she could make no im 
pression upon him. One day she was reading the 
hymn Jesus, my Lord, to Thee I cry/ and when she 
came to the refrain, the old man called out to her 
sharply : That s not in the book ! The woman an 
swered, Why, yes, it is. He declared again that he 
did not believe it was in the book. The good woman 
told him that he could read it for himself. He asked 
for his glasses, and read with wonder and amazement, 
again and again, My only plea Christ died for me ! 
oh, take me as I am. A few weeks afterward he said 
to the woman one morning, I am going home to-day, 
and I am so happy, so happy 1* In an hour or two he 
passed away, repeating these words to the last." 

ttif 

" One afternoon whjen visiting the Royal Infirm- 



254 Sankey s Story 

ary," a missionary in England writes, " I found a 
young girl very ill and without any prospect of recov 
ery. I sat down by her and read the hymn, Jesus, 
my Lord, to Thee I cry/ She listened very attentively, 
but I did not know until the following week, when I 
visited her again, what a deep impression it had made 
upon her. On this second occasion I was told that 
she was much worse. Hearing I was there, she asked 
her mother to tell me that she wanted very much to 
see me. When I went to her she leaned forward and, 
with an eagerness which surprised me, repeated the 
words : My only plea Christ died for me ! Oh, take 
me as I am. These comforting lines had been con 
stantly on her lips during this last week of her life. 
That night the Lord took her home." 

A party of policemen had gathered in a drawing- 
room in the West End of London. One was there 
who had been persuaded by his Christian comrades to 
attend for the first time a meeting of The Christian 
Policemen s Association. He went unwillingly and 
rather late, and did not expect to care for the meeting. 
But soon after he had entered the room a lady, Miss 
Beauchamp, sang " Take me as I am " as a solo. The 
repeated refrain set him to thinking. As he was ? He 
had led a rough life, first as a blue-jacket and then as 
a policeman. He could not well be more wretched and 
miserable than he was that night, with a load of sins 
upon him and a dark, dreary future to look forward to. 
He had never thought that Jesus would take him as he 
was. He had always thought that he must be much 
better first, and had often tried to make himself better; 



Of the Gospel Hymns 255 

but it had been a miserable failure. Now the words, 
" Take me as I am," sounded over and over again in 
his ears, and in his heart he repeated them, " Lord, 
take me as I am." He left before the end of the meet 
ing, and so it was not until the following month that 
his friends heard of the great change that had come 
over him. Since that time his delight has been to 
proclaim the love of God as opportunity offered, on 
the street or to his comrades, seeking to turn other 

lost ones to the path of life. 

*p 

While Mr. Moody and I were holding meetings 
at Plymouth, England, Professor Henry Drummond, 
who was assisting us, became very much interested in 
an infidel who came to the services laboring with 
him for several days and visiting him in his home, 
twenty miles distant, but making no impression on 
him. Near the close of the mission the infidel came 
again. On reaching the building, which was located 
inside the barrack grounds, he found the door closed 
and the building full. And while he was standing on 
the green sward outside he heard the choir sing " Take 
me as I am." He told Professor Drummond after 
ward that God used this simple hymn to lead him into 
the Shepherd s fold. 

Tell It Out 

Words by Frances R. Havergal Music by Ira D. Sankey 

"Tell it out among the nations that the Lord is King; 
Tell it out! Tell it out!" 

Miss Havergal s sister Maria bears record that 
this hymn was written in England in 1872, when the 
author was unable to go to church one snowy morning. 



256 Sankeys Story 

She asked for her prayer-book, always liking to follow 
the services of the day. On the return of her brother- 
in-law, Mr. Shaw, from church, he heard her touch 
upon the piano. 

" Why, Frances, I thought you were upstairs ! " 
" Yes, but I had my prayer-book ; and in the 
Psalms for to-day I read, * Tell it out among the 
heathen that the Lord is King. I thought, What a 
splendid first line ! and then the words and music came 
rushing in to me. There ! it s all written out." 

I found Miss Havergal s tune rather difficult to 
Bing, and therefore arranged the one which is now 
found in " Gospel Hymns," in " Sacred Songs and 
Solos," and in the new Methodist Episcopal hymnal. 

Tell Me the Old, Old Story. 

Words by Miss Kate Hankey Music by W. H. Doane 

"Tell me the old, old story, 

Of unseen things above." 

This excellent hymn by Miss Hankey, of London, 
has been translated into many languages, and has been 
set to several tunes. Dr. Doane has this to say re 
garding the music by which it has become popular, 
and the occasion on which he composed it : " In 1867 
I was attending the International Convention of the 
Young Men s Christian Association, in Montreal. 
Among those present was Major-General Russell, then 
in command of the English forces during the Fenian 
excitement. He arose in the meeting and recited the 
words of this song from a sheet of foolscap paper 
tears streaming down his bronzed cheeks as he read. 
I wrote the music for the song one hot afternoon while 



Of the Gospel Hymns 257 

on the stage-coach between the Glen Falls House and 
the Crawford House in the White Mountains. That 
evening we sung it in the parlors of the hotel. We 
thought it pretty, although we scarcely anticipated the 
popularity which was subsequently accorded it." 

That Will be Heaven for Me 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by James McGranahan 

" I know not the hour when my Lord will come 
To take me away to His own dear home." 

Elizabeth Stuart Phelps "The Gates Ajar," 
which aroused so much criticism a generation ago, 
suggested to Mr. Bliss the need of this hymn. The 
Scripture teaching that we shall be " with the Lord " 
he deemed sufficient for spiritual contentment, off 
setting the " I know not " of speculation by the " I 
know " of faith. Mr. McGranahan was visiting Mr. 
Bliss at that time. Bliss handed the words to him, 
asking what he could get for a tune. McGranahan 
worked upon it a long time without success, making 
harmonies and trying to satisfy himself with some 
thing that would properly express the words. When 
supper-time came he did not care to eat. At bedtime 
they all went to their rooms, leaving him in the parlor 
at the piano. Finally, dissatisfied with the result, he 
threw himself on the floor and fell into a doze. Sud 
denly he awoke, and the tune, chorus and all, had 
come different from the harmonies he had worked 
upon. When he sang it to Bliss in the morning he was 
delighted with it, and immediately adopted it for use. 

t^t 

A wealthy Quaker lady heard this hymn in 



258 Sankeys Story 

Newcastle-on-Tyne, sung in connection with Mr. 
Moody s lecture upon " Heaven." She was so much 
impressed by it that she went home and induced her 
husband to attend the meetings. She soon became one 
of the most successful workers in our subsequent meet 
ings there and in London, taking lodgings near so as 

to more efficiently work in the inquiry-meetings. 

1^1 

At the time Mr. Bliss and his wife were lost in the 
railroad accident at Ashtabula I was living in a hotel 
in Chicago. I had engaged a room near mine for 
him, and was awaiting his arrival, when a friend came 
into my room and, putting his hand on my shoulder. 
said, " Bliss is dead." The next Sunday we held a 
great memorial service in the Tabernacle, to give ex 
pression to our sorrow. While I was singing " That 
will be Heaven for Me " as a solo, the two small 
crowns of flowers which had been placed in front of the 
organ on the platform were taken away, as it was dis 
covered that their two little children, Paul and George, 
who were supposed to have been lost with their par 
ents, had been left at home at Towanda, Pennsylvania, 
and were safe. 

The Child of a King 

Words by Hattie E. Buell Music by John B. Sumnei 

" My Father is rich in houses and lands, 
He holdeth the wealth of the world in His hands! 

Mr. Peter P. Bilhorn relates the following inci 
dent in connection with this hymn, which happened 
when he was engaged in evangelistic work among the 
cowboys in the West, in 1883. " We had started up 



Of the Gospel Hymns 259 

the Missouri River for Bismarck, and on Sunday we 
stopped at a new town, named Blunt, to unload some 
freight. A crowd of men and boys came down to the 
wharf. I took my little organ, went on the wharf- 
boat, and sang a few songs among others the glorious 
hymn, I m the child of a King. I thought noth 
ing more of the occasion until long afterward, when 
I sang the same song in Mr. Moody s church in Chi 
cago. Then a man in the back part of the house arose, 
and said in a trembling voice : Two years ago I heard 
that song at Blunt, Dakota; I was then an unsaved 
man, but that song set me to thinking, and I decided 
to accept Christ, and I am now studying for the 
ministry. " 

The Christian s " Good-Night " 

Words by Sarah Doudncy Music by Ira D. Sankey 

" Sleep on, beloved, sleep, and take thy res*-; 
Lay down thy head upon thy Saviour s breast." 

Each member of the Masonic Quartet of Pitts 
burgh recently received a check and a note of thanks 
for singing at the funeral of Captain S. S. Brown. 
An unusual story was also made public thereby. "In 
the last hours of the turf king s life," one of the daily 
papers says, " he had an interval in which his mind 
was clear. He called his daughter-in-law and asked 
if she would take on herself the task of seeing that 
1 The Christian s Good-night was sung at his funeral ; 
and he told her, in a disjointed way, of a dream from 
which he had just awakened. He had thought him 
self dead, and there were four ministers taking part 
in his funeral. He named the ministers and said that 



260 Sankey s Story 

one of them had broken down while making an ad 
dress, and that another, naming this minister also, had 
taken up the address. Captain Brown said that he 
awoke as all were singing The Christian s Good 
night, and that he had joined with them in the sing 
ing. The dying man smiled faintly at the picture 
he drew, but begged his daughter-in-law to remember 
her promise." 

The words of this hymn were occasioned by the 
death of a friend. They were handed to me at Bris 
tol, England. I wrote the music soon afterward, and 
sang it at the funeral of Charles H. Spurgeon, the 
great London preacher. It has since become very 
useful on two continents as a funeral hymn. 

The Cross of Jesus 

Words by Elizabeth Clephane Music by Ira D. Sankey 

" Beneath the cross of Jesus 
I fain would take my stand." 

I composed the music to this hymn in the home 
of my dear friend, Dr. Thomas Barnardo, whose 
death is announced through the public press just at 
the time I am writing this note. The author of the 
hymn, Elizabeth Clephane, also wrote the widely- 
known hymn, " The Ninety and Nine," and these two 
were her only hymns. 

The first time this hymn was sung is still fresh 
in my memory. The morning after I had composed 
the music the Rev. W. H. Aitkin was to speak at our 
mission in the great Bow Road Hall, in London, Mr. 
Moody having made an arrangement to speak at Her 
Majesty s Theater. It was a lovely morning, and a 



Of the Gospel Hymns 261 

great gathering had assembled at the meeting, which 
was held at eight o clock. Before the sermon I sang 
" Beneath the cross of Jesus " as a solo ; and as in the 
case of "The Ninety and Nine," much blessing came 
from its use for the first time. With eyes filled with 
tears, and deeply moved, the preacher said to the audi 
ence: "Dear friends, I had intended to speak to you 
this morning upon work for the Master, but this new 
hymn has made such an impression on my heart, and 
evidently upon your own, that I will defer my proposed 
address and speak to you on The Cross of Jesus/ " 
The sermon was one of the most powerful I have ever 
heard, and many souls that morning accepted the mes 
sage of grace and love. Some years later Mr. Aitkin 
held many successful meetings in New York and other 
cities in this country, and he often used this hymn as a 
solo. 

An odd incident occurred in connection with Mr. 
Aitkin s use of this hymn in St. Paul s Church, at 
Broadway and Wall street, the money center of 
America. A gentleman, having heard this piece sung 
frequently by great congregations of business men 
and Wall street brokers in St. Paul s Church, called 
upon the publishers of the small book of words which 
had been distributed in the church, and said that he 
*" wished to secure that beautiful English tune which 
Mr. Aitkin used so much in his meetings." When he 
was told that he could find it in any copy of " Gospel 
Hymns " he became quite indignant, and insisted that 
it was a fine classic which the great preacher had 
brought with him from England nothing like the 
Moody and Sankey trash! Having secured a copy 



LIBRARY 
KNOX COLLEGE 

TORONTO 



262 Sankey 1 s Story 

of Mr. Aitkin s hymn-book containing the " fine Eng 
lish tune " to the beautiful words of " Beneath the 
cross of Jesus," he went away happy, but only to find 
that it was written by the author of the music to " The 
Ninety and Nine." 

The Gate Ajar for Me 

Words by Mrs. Lydia Baxter Music by S. J. Vail 

"There is a gate that stands ajar, 
And through its portals gleaming." 

Mrs. Lydia Baxter, born in Petersburg, New 
York, in 1809, was an invalid for many years. But 
her interest in the religious welfare of those around 
her was manifested in many ways. She wrote " There 
is a gate that stands ajar " about three years before 
her death in New York City in 1874, when she was 
considerably past the sixty-year mark. 

^ 

In our meetings in Great Britain, 1873-74, this 
hymn was much used. It was sung at the watch-night 
service in 1873, the night before New Year s, in the 
Free Assembly Hall of Edinburgh. A young lady 
who was present Maggie Lindsay, of Aberdeen, 
Scotland was much impressed by the hymn, and 
those seated by her side heard her exclaim, "O, heav 
enly Father, is it true that the gate is standing ajar 
for me? If it is so, I will go in." That night she 
became a disciple of the Lord Jesus. The next day 
she called on her pastor, the Rev. J. H. Wilson, min 
ister of the Barclay Church, and told him of her de 
cision. He was greatly pleased, and advised her to 
tell her school companions of her experience. This 



Of the Gospel Hymns 263 

she did, and succeeded in leading several of them into 
the light. Scarcely a month later, on January 28, 
Maggie took a train for her home, but she never 
reached there alive. At Manual Junction a collision 
took place between a mineral train and the one on 
which she was riding. A number of passengers were 
killed, and Maggie, all crushed and broken, was found 
in the wreck. In one of her hands was a copy of 
" Sacred Songs and Solos," opened at her favorite 
hymn, " There is a gate that stands ajar," the page of 
which was stained with her heart s blood. She was 
carried into a cottage near the station, where she lin 
gered a few days and was frequently heard to sing 
on her dying couch the chorus of the hymn so dear 
to her, " For me, for me! was left ajar for me! " 

In commemoration of this event, which touched 
me deeply, I wrote my first hymn, " Home at last," 

which I also set to music. 

t^t 

An affecting incident was related by one of the 
colporteurs of the Christian Colportage Association 
for England. " I called at a house in B , where 
lived two aged people who were invalids. I had called 
several times before, but could never sell them any 
books or command their attention to hear about good 
things. On this occasion I began to sing, There is 
a gate that stands ajar. When I came to the chorus, 
Oh, depth of mercy/ I saw a tear in the old lady s 
eye, and I stopped. But she said : Go on ; that is a 
nice song/ I continued, but before I had finished 
she burst into tears, asking, * Is that mercy for me ? 
I then talked to them both about Jesus and prayed 



264 Sankey s Story 

with them. They bought the hymn-book containing 
the song, and earnestly begged me to come again as 
soon as possible. I have visited them every month. 
Last week, when I called I found the poor woman 
dying ; but when her husband told her I had come, she 
said : I want to see him, tell him to come in. She 
could hardly speak, but she said in a whisper : Do 
sing my favorite. I knew which one she meant, and 
sang very softly, 

Oh, depth of mercy! can it be 
That gate was left ajar for me? 

She tried to join me in singing, but fell back, quite 
exhausted. I could not talk much with her, she was 
so weak ; but she held my hand with a firm grasp, still 
repeating the words, * Oh, depth of mercy ! can it be ? 
I have just heard that she has passed away, happy in 
the Saviour s love, and singing as well as she could 
that beautiful hymn." 



Lord Shaftesbury once told the following story: 
" A young woman had wandered away from home and 
parents. One day, while listening to the Gospel, she 
was so impressed that she resolved to return home. 
She started, and on reaching the house found the door 
unfastened, and she walked upstairs to her mother. 
Mother, she asked, how was it that I found the 
door open ? My girl, replied the mother, that 
door has never been closed since you have been away ; 
I thought that some night my poor girl would 
return/ " 



Of the Gospel Hymns 265 

The Harbor Bell 

Words by John H. Yates Music by Ira D. Sankey 

" Our life is like a stormy sea 
Swept by the gales of sin and grief." 

John H. Yates, a humble layman who lived at 
Batavia, New York, wrote this hymn after reading the 
following incident in a newspaper : " We were nearing 
a dangerous coast, and the night was drawing near. 
Suddenly a heavy fog settled down upon us. No 
lights had been sighted, and the pilot seemed anxious 
and troubled, not knowing how soon we might be 
dashed to pieces on the hidden rocks along the shore. 
The whistle was blown loud and hard, but no response 
was heard. The captain ordered the engines to be 
stopped, and for some time we drifted about on the 
waves. Suddenly the pilot cried, Hark ! Far away 
in the distance we heard the welcome tones of the har 
bor bell, which seemed to say, This way, this way ! 
Again the engines were started, and, guided by the 
welcome sound, we entered the harbor in safety." 

On receiving this hymn from Mr. Yates, in 1891, 
I at once set it to music. It has been found useful 
in meetings for sailors and fishermen. 

The King is Coming 

Words by Ira D. Sankey Music by Ira D. Sankey 

"Rejoice! Rejoice! our King is coming! 
And the time will not be long." 

During one of my trips to Great Britain, on " The 
City of Rome," a storm raged on the sea. The wind 
was howling through the rigging, and waves like 



266 Sankey s Story 

mountains of foam were breaking over the bow of the 
vessel. A great fear had fallen upon the passengers. 
When the storm was at its worst we all thought that 
we might soon go to the bottom of the sea. The con 
viction came to me that the Lord would be with us in 
the trying hour, and, sitting down in the reading room, 
I composed this hymn. Before reaching England the 
tune had formed itself in my mind, and on arriving 
in London I wrote it out and had it published in 
" Sacred Songs and Solos." It has been much em 
ployed in England in connection with sermons on the 
second coming of Christ, and was frequently used 
by Mr. Moody. 

The Mistakes of My Life 

Words by Mrs. Urania Locke Bailey Music by Robert Lowry 

"The mistakes of my life have been many, 
The sins of my heart have been more." 

While we were holding meetings in Boston, in 
1876, Mr. Moody was entertained by one of the lead 
ing lawyers of the city, who frequently before the 
meetings would ask what solo I had selected. If I 
had none, he would say : "Please sing, The mistakes 
of my life have been many ; for one of the greatest 
mistakes I have ever made was to ignore God in all 
my affairs. But at last he took away my only child, a 
beloved son. That led me to the feet of Jesus, and I 
bowed to kiss the hand that had laid the rod upon me. 
Then I told the Lord that I would devote my fortune 
to his service. In keeping with that promise I erected 
a college for young women, located at Wellesley Lake, 
near Boston." This good man has now passed on to 



Of the Gospel Hymns 267 

his reward. Shortly before he died Mr. Moody and I 
purchased a perpetual scholarship in Wellesley Col 
lege, as a prize to be sought after by the young women 
of Northfield Seminary. 

Written about the year 1871, this hymn was much 
used and became very popular in our meetings in Great 
Britain. 

The Model Church 

Words by John H. Yates Music by Ira D. Sankey 

" Well, wife, I ve found the model church, 
And worshiped there to-day." 

I found this poem in a newspaper, wrote the music 
tor it, and sang it for the first time at a meeting for 
ministers and Christian workers at Atlanta, Georgia, 
conducted by Mr. Moody. It has been repeatedly 
used as a solo in meetings gathered for the discussion 
of the subject, " How to reach the masses." Once, in 
Buffalo, I had the pleasure of meeting Mr. Yates of 
Batavia, New York ; and I urged him to devote more 
of his time to writing Gospel hymns. He has since 
written several popular songs, one of the most suc 
cessful being " Faith is the Victory," which I published 

in " The Christian Endeavor Hymnbook." 

** 

A poor little girl, living in an alley of the slum 
district of Chicago, was used in a remarkable way for 
the conversion of a commercial traveler. He had re 
ceived instructions, his trunks filled with samples had 
been sent to the depot, and hurried good-byes had 
been said. With gripsack in hand, he took a short-cut 
to the station through one of the filthy alleys of the 



268 Sankey s Story 

city. He saw a great number of half-clad children, 
whose only home was a wretched basement or illy- 
ventilated tenement. As he passed, one little waif was 
singing at the top of her voice : 

"There ll be no sorrow there." 
" Where ?" said the thoughtless salesman. 

" In heaven above, where all is love, there ll be no sorrow 
there," 

sang the little girl. 

The answer, the singer, the far-av/ay heaven with 
no sorrow there, lodged in his heart. The fast-flying 
train soon left behind the hurry and the bustle of city 
life, but the answer of the little singing waif was taken 
up and repeated by the rapid revolution of the car- 
wheels. He could not forget the singer and the song, 
nor could he rest until he cried for mercy at the Cross. 
It was one of the many fulfilments of the promise, " A 
little child shall lead them." 

The Ninety and Nine 

Words by E. C. Clephane Music by Ira D. Sankey 

"There were ninety and nine that safely lay 
In the shelter of the fold." 

It was in the year 1874 that the poem, "The 
Ninety and Nine," was discovered, set to music, and 
sent out upon its world-wide mission. Its discovery 
seemed as if by chance, but I cannot regard it other 
wise than providential. Mr. Moody had just been con 
ducting a series of meetings in Glasgow, and I had 
been assisting him in his work as director of the sing- 



Of the Gospel Hymns 269 

ing. We were at the railway station at Glasgow and 
about to take the train for Edinburgh, whither we were 
going upon an urgent invitation of ministers to hold 
three days of meetings there before going into the 
Highlands. We had held a three months series in 
Edinburgh just previous to our four months campaign 
in Glasgow. As we were about to board the train I 
bought a weekly newspaper, for a penny. Being mucfi 
fatigued by our incessant labors at Glasgow, and in 
tending to begin work immediately upon our arrival at 
Edinburgh, we did not travel second- or third-class, as 
wa&lt;s our custom, but sought the seclusion and rest 
which a first-class railway carriage in Great Britain 
affords. In the hope of finding news from America I 
began perusing my lately purchased newspaper. This 
hope, however, was doomed to disappointment, as the 
only thing in its columns to remind an American of 
home and native land was a sermon by Henry Ward 
Beecher. 

I threw the paper down, but shortly before arriv 
ing in Edinburgh I picked it up again with a view to 
reading the advertisements. While thus engaged my 
eyes fell upon a little piece of poetry in a corner of the 
paper. I carefully read it over, and at once made up 
my mind that this would make a great hymn for evan 
gelistic work if it had a tune. So impressed was I 
that I called Mr. Moody s attention to it, and he asked 
me to read it to him. This I proceeded to do with all 
the vim and energy at my command. After I had fin 
ished I looked at my friend Moody to see what the 
effect had been, only to discover that he had not heard 
a word, so absorbed was he in a letter which he had 



270 Sankey s Story 

received from Chicago. My chagrin can be bettef 
imagined than described. Notwithstanding this ex 
perience, I cut out the poem and placed it in my musi 
cal scrap-book which, by the way, has been the seed- 
plot from which sprang many of the Gospel songs that 
are now known throughout the world. 

At the noon meeting on the second day, held at the 
Free Assembly Hall, the subject presented by Mr. 
Moody and other speakers was " The Good Shepherd." 
When Mr. Moody had finished speaking he called upon 
Dr. Bonar to say a few words. He spoke only a few 
minutes, but with great power, thrilling the immense 
audience by his fervid eloquence. At the conclusion 
of Dr. Bonar s words Mr. Moody turned to me with 
the question, " Have you a solo appropriate for this 
subject, with which to close the service?" I had noth 
ing suitable in mind, and was greatly troubled to know 
what to do. The Twenty-third Psalm occurred to me, 
but this had been sung several times in the meeting. 
I knew that every Scotchman in the audience would 
join me if I sang that, so I could not possibly render 
this favorite psalm as a solo. At this moment I 
seemed to hear a voice saying : " Sing the hymn you 
found on the train !" But I thought this impossible, as 
no music had ever been written for that hymn. Again 
the impression came strongly upon me that I must 
sing the beautiful and appropriate words I had found 
the day before, and placing- the little newspaper slip on 
the organ in front of me, I lifted my heart in prayer, 
asking God to help me so to sing that the people might 
hear and understand. Laying my hands upon the 
organ I struck the key of A flat, and began to sing. 



Of the Gospel Hymns 2 ji 

Note by note the tune was given, which has not 
been changed from that day to this. As the singing 
ceased a great sigh seemed to go up from the meeting, 
and I knew that the song had reached the hearts of 
my Scotch audience. Mr. Moody was greatly moved. 
Leaving the pulpit, he came down to where I was 
seated. Leaning over the organ, he looked at the 
little newspaper slip from which the song had been 
sung, and with tears in his eyes said : " Sankey, where 
did you get that hymn? I never heard the like of it 
in my life." I was also moved to tears and arose and 
replied : " Mr. Moody, that s the hymn I read to you 
yesterday on the train, which you did not hear." Then 
Mr. Moody raised his hand and pronounced the bene 
diction, and the meeting closed. Thus " The Ninety 
and Nine " was born. 

A short time afterward I received, at Dundee, a 
letter from a lady who had been present at the meet 
ing, thanking me for having sung her deceased sister s 
words. From correspondence that followed I learned 
that the author of the poem was Elizabeth C. Clephane, 
a resident of Melrose, Scotland, one of three sisters, all 
members of a refined Christian family. She was 
born in Edinburgh in 1830. Her sister, in describing 
Elizabeth, says : " She was a very quiet little child, 
shrinking from notice and always absorbed in books. 
The loss of both parents, at an early age, taught her 
sorrow. As she grew up she was recognized as the 
cleverest of the family. She was first in her class and 
a favorite with the teacher. Her love for poetry was a 
passion. Among- the sick and suffering she won the 
name of My Sunbeam/ She wrote The Ninety and 



272 Sankey s Story 

Nine for a friend, who had it published in The Chil 
dren s Hour/ It was copied from thence into various 
publications, but was comparatively little noticed. She 

died in 1869." 

AP 

When Mr. Moody and I returned from England, 
in 1875, we ne ^ our fi rst meeting on a Sunday after 
noon in front of the old Congregational church in the 
village of Northfield, Massachusetts, Mr. Moody s 
home. On reaching the church we found it overflow 
ing, and more people surrounding the church outside 
than were inside. Mr. Moody, when entering the 
pulpit, said : " I always speak to the largest crowd, and 
as it is outside, I will speak from the front of the 
church." The congregation retired to the open air, 
and the small cabinet organ was carried to a position on 
a small porch in front of the church, where it was 
placed with just room enough for me to take my seat. 
After a few of the congregational hymns had been 
sung, Mr. Moody announced that I would sing " The 
Ninety and Nine." Nearly opposite the church, across 
the river, a man was seated on his porch. He had 
refused to attend the service in the village, and was 
quite angry because his family and neighbors had all 
gone to the meeting. But the singing of this song 
reached him, and two weeks later he attended a prayer- 
meeting at a small school-house near his home, where 
he rose and said that he had heard a song which 
greatly troubled him, sung by Mr. Sankey at the meet 
ing held in the open air at Northfield, and that he 
wished the Christians to pray for him. This they did, 
and he became converted. He then removed to North- 



Of the Gospel Hymns 273 

field and joined Mr. Moody in his work in connection 
with the schools, where he continued for many years. 
On the occasion of laying the corner-stone for 
the new Congregational church in Northfield, Mr. 
Moody asked me to stand on the corner-stone and sing 
" The Ninety and Nine " without the organ accompani 
ment, as he hoped that this church would be one whose 
mission it would be to seek the lost ones. While I 
was singing, Mr. Caldwell, the man who had heard 
the song across the river, lay dying in his cottage near 
Mr. Moody s home. Calling his wife to his bedside, he 
asked her to open the south window, as he thought he 
heard singing. Together they listened to the same 
song which had been used to lead him into the way of 
life. In a little while he passed away to join the Shep 
herd in the upper fold. 

a* 

At the close of our meetings at Newcastle-on-Tyne 
one of the most efficient workers in connection with 
our services, Mrs. Claphin, decided to go to the Con 
tinent for a season of rest. When passing through 
London she purchased a large number of the penny 
edition of " Sacred Songs and Solos," for distribution 
on the way. At the Grand Hotel, in Paris, she left a 
number of them on the reading-table, with a prayer 
for God s blessing upon those who might find them 
there. A few weeks later she visited Geneva, Switz 
erland, and while attending a prayer-meeting there 
one evening, the minister of the church told a touching 
story about a young English lady, who was a member 
of his church. She had received a letter from a long- 
lost brother, who was ill at the Grand Hotel in Paris. 



274 Sankey s Story 

The young lady asked her physician if he would allow 
her to go to see her brother. The physician said: 
" You will die if you do." She replied : " I will die if 
I don t." A few days later she started for Paris, and 
on reaching the Grand Hotel she was taken to the room 
where her dying brother lay. After a warm greeting 
he took from under the pillow a copy of "Sacred 
Songs and Solos," and pointing to " The Ninety and 
Nine," said : " This hymn was the means of bringing 
me to Christ." Mrs. Claphin, who was in the audience 
and heard this story related, thanked God for having 

put it into her heart to distribute the little hymn-books. 

4fc* 

A friend sends me the following : " One day I 
was talking with a woman of the most abandoned sort, 
who had hardened her heart by many years of 
drunkenness and sin. Nothing I could say made any 
impression on her. When I was about to give up, our 
old Scotch cook, who was fond of poetry, began to sing : 

But none of the ransomed ever knew 
How deep were the waters crossed; 

Nor how dark was the night that the Lord passed through, 
Ere he found His sheep that was lost. 

She was in the kitchen, and was not aware that any 
one was within hearing. Her rich Scotch brogue lent 
charm to the verse, and it seemed a message from God. 
For the poor woman to whom I had been talking, and 
who was so hardened a moment before, burst into 
tears, and falling on her knees, began to pray to the 
Good Shepherd to receive her. She was converted, 
and has often testified to the fact that the song led 
her to Christ." 



Of the Gospel Hymns 275 

Mr. Blane, of South Africa, relates : " I knew a 
young man who was the only unconverted member of 
his family. At home he was constantly hearing of 
Christ, and being asked to accept him as his Saviour. 
He determined to rid himself of all home restraint, 
and to enjoy himself by making a tour of the Conti 
nent. He set out, and for some time all went well. At 
one of the hotels at which he stayed there was an old 
Christian woman. As was her constant habit, having 
first obtained the consent of the proprietor, she went 
from room to room, leaving upon the table of each a 
little tract or book. She entered this young man s 
room, and with a prayer to God for guidance, took out 
a small copy of Sankey s hymns, opening it at the one 
beginning, 

There were ninety and nine that safely lay 
In the shelter of the fold/ 

Under the guidance of the Holy Spirit she took her 
pencil and drew a stroke under the words of the third 
line, One was out on the hills away/ Soon the young 
man entered his room, and at once the book caught his 
eye. He went over and read the penciled line. Like 
a flash the image of his home came up before him, and 
all the dear ones there, until his stony heart was 
broken. Throwing himself upon his knees, he cried 
for mercy and besought the Father to receive him for 
Christ s sake. Soon the answer came, and he rose to 
his feet a new man in Christ Jesus." 



Mr. Thomas Leigh, of Liverpool, who assisted in 
our meetings in that city, writes me as follows : " At 



276 Sankey s Story 

your first mission in Liverpool an old man, between 
seventy and eighty, was converted through your sing 
ing There were ninety and nine/ He lived for a 
number of years afterward, and was a bright worker 
and gave a clear testimony. During the remainder of 
his life he went by the name of l Ninety and Nine/ " 

&lt;** 

From South America, only last November, came 
this testimony from a former co-worker : " Many 
years ago, in 1884, I had the pleasure of meeting you. 
I was then a member of your London choir, and helped 
in speaking to souls at the after-meetings of those won 
derful gatherings you and dear Mr. Moody held in 
London in that year. Now, more than twenty years 
after, I am out here, where God in his grace has given 
me the privilege of witnessing for him for the last 
sixteen years. I can not tell you the blessing that the 
translations of your hymns into Spanish have been 
here. I send you a copy of our hymn-book, in which 
I have collected a large number of songs, the great 
majority having against them S. S./ signifying 
1 Sacred Songs and Solos/ These are translations, 
adaptations or tunes of your collection. I am sure God 
has graciously used these hymns in blessing many 
souls. Only this afternoon, while I was out visiting 
some new converts, I heard of the case of a woman 
converted through the singing of a Spanish transla 
tion of There were ninety and nine/ Some time ago 
a man, who was a bad character, was spoken to by a 
colporteur, and he had a desire to read the Bible. He 
lost his work for a day and a half while he hunted in 
the different book-shops for a Bible. At last he got 



Of the Gospel Hymns 277 

one, and commenced reading it. He came to our open- 
air meetings, followed us into one of our halls, and 
was soon converted. He was so thankful to the Lord 
for what he had done for him that he asked us to 
come and have meetings in his house. The result has 
been that at least twelve of his relatives and neigh 
bors have been converted. Not long ago a woman 
came into the meeting in his house in a careless, laugh 
ing way. The hymn I have referred to was being sung. 
The Spirit of God convicted her then and there, and 
she burst into tears and cried to God for mercy, say- 
ing that she was that lost sheep, out on the moun 
tains. She found peace, and now her husband is 
converted, and they are bright and earnest Christians." 

The Shining Shore 

Words by the Rev. David Nelson Music by George F. Root 

" My days are gliding swiftly by, 
And I, a pilgrim stranger." 

Mr. Nelson was a surgeon in the army during the 
War of 1812. Afterward he entered the ministry, 
preached in Tennessee and Kentucky, and later moved 
to Missouri, where he opened a plantation. There he 
heard an address on the evils of slavery that changed 
his views. " I will live on roast potatoes and salt 
before I will hold slaves !" he declared. He advocated 
colonization of the negroes. This brought down upon 
him the wrath of his slave-holding neighbors, who 
drove him from his home and pursued him through the 
woods and swamps for three days and nights. Finally 
he came out on the banks of the Mississippi River 
opposite Quincy, Illinois. By signs he made known 



San key s Story 

his condition to friends there, and then hid in the 
bushes to await the approach of night. As he lay 
there in danger of being captured every moment, the 
land of freedom in plain sight, with the swiftly gliding 
waters between, the lines of this hymn began to assume 
form in his mind, and he wrote them down on the 
back of a letter he had in his pocket. The voices of 
the vengeful pursuers were heard in the woods about 
him. Once they strode by the very clump of bushes in 
which he was concealed, and even poked their guns in 
to separate the branches ; but they failed to notice him. 
Several members of the Congregational church of 
Quincy came over in the evening in a canoe, and began 
fishing near his hiding-place. When they had located 
this exactly they gave a signal, and drawing near to 
the shore, met him as he rushed down to the water s 
edge. They got him safely to the Illinois side, but 
were discovered and followed by the slaveholders, 
who demanded his surrender. But they were informed 
that Mr. Nelson was now in a free State, and that 
nothing should molest him. In Illinois he was em 
ployed by the Home Missionary Society, and continued 
to take an active part in the anti-slavery agitation of 
those times. He died in 1844. 

As to the music of this hymn Mr. Root says : 
" One day, I remember, as I was working at a set of 
graded part-songs for singing classes, mother passed 
through the room and laid a slip from one of the re 
ligious newspapers before me, saying ; George, I 
think that would be good for music/ I looked at the 
poem, which began, My days are gliding swiftly by/ 
and a simple melody sang itself along in my mind as I 



Of the Gospel Hymns 279 

read. I jotted it down and went on with my work. 
That was the origin of the music of The Shining 
Shore. L,ater, when I took up the melody to har 
monize it, it seemed so very simple and commonplace 
that I hesitated about setting the other parts to it. I 
finally decided that it might be useful to somebody, and 
I completed it, though it was not printed until some 
months afterward. In after years I examined it in an 
endeavor to account for its great popularity but in 
vain. To the musician there is not one reason in 
melody or harmony, scientifically regarded, for such a 
fact. To him hundreds of others, now forgotten, were 
better." 

This was a favorite hymn of Henry Ward Beecher. 

The Smitten Rock 

Words by George C. Needham Music by Ira D. Sankey 

" From the riven Rock there floweth 
Living water ever clear." 

" When Mr. Sankey lived at Cohasset, Massachu 
setts, in the summer of 1876, after the great Boston 
meetings, he very naturally desired to bring the Gospel 
to the people living in that neighborhood. Accord 
ingly he invited me," wrote Mr. Needham on one 
occasion, "to spend a week with him in a series of 
evangelistic meetings. Before the breakfast-hour one 
morning, while Mr. Sankey was playing on his organ, I 
remarked : I wish we had a good hymn on The Smitten 
Rock, as I hope to speak on that subject to-night. 
Mr. Sankey replied with enthusiasm : Here is a new 
hymn which came to me last night in my sleep ; I be- 



280 Sankey s Story 

lieve the Lord gave it to me. I wish I had words for 
it. Why don t you write a piece on The Rock? I 
replied, Why, I can t write such a hymn as you want, 
and you know that I don t understand music; how to 
fit words to your music would puzzle an unmusical 
man. The enthusiastic soloist, still playing, said: 
You ll find pen and paper on the table ; this is a stir 
ring tune and I want the words ; try your hand at it/ 
I immediately sat down and asked the Lord s special 
help, and then wrote the hymn as it now appears. Mr. 
Sankey took the paper, with the ink scarcely dry on it, 
and sang it through with the chorus the new air and 
the words exactly fitting, without alteration or amend 
ment. * I think the Lord gave you the words as truly 
as he gave me the tune, was Mr. Sankey s first remark. 
And then we commended the little piece and its music 
to the great Master, praying that the unction of the 
Holy One might rest upon it. Mr. Sankey sang the 
hymn for the first time in public that evening, after I 
had given my address on The Smitten Rock." 

The Solid Rock 

Words by the Rev. Edward Mote Music by William B. Bradbury 

" My hope is built on nothing less 
Than Jesus blood and righteousness." 

" I went astray from my youth," said the author 
of this hymn. " My Sundays were spent on the streets 
in play. So ignorant was I that I did not know there 
was a God." He was a cabinet-maker, and was con 
verted under the preaching of the Rev. John Hyatt. 
The refrain came into the author s mind one morning in 
1834, as he was walking up Holborn Hill, London, on 



Of the Gospel Hymns 281 

his way to work. Four stanzas were completed that 
day and two more on the following Sunday. In 1852 
Mr. Mote became the pastor of a Baptist church in 
Horsham, Sussex, where he continued to minister for 
more than twenty years. In his eighty-first year his 
health declined. " I think I am going to heaven," he 
said ; " yes, I am nearing port. The truths I have 
preached I am now living upon, and they will do to die 
upon. Ah ! the precious blood ! The precious blood 
which takes away all our sins ; it is this which makes 
peace with God." And so he passed peacefully away, 
his hope "built on nothing less than Jesus blood and 
righteousness." 

The Sweet Story of Old 

Words by Mrs. Jemima Luke Music by J. C. Englebrecht 

" I think when I read that sweet story of old. 
When Jesus was here among men." 

" In the year 1841 I went to the Normal Infant 
School in Gray s Inn Road to obtain some knowledge 
of the system," writes Mrs. Luke. " Mary Moffat, 
afterwards Mrs. Livingstone, was there at the same 
time, and Sarah Roby, whom Mr. and Mrs. Moffat had 
rescued in infancy when buried alive, and had brought 
up with their own children. Among the marching 
pieces at Gray s Inn Road was a Greek air, the pathos 
of which took my fancy, and I searched Watts and 
Jane Taylor and several Sunday-school hymn-books for 
words to suit the measure but in vain. Having been 
recalled home, I went one day on some missionary 
business to the little town of Wellington, five miles 
from Taunton, in a stage-coach. It was a beautiful 



282 Sankey s Story 

spring morning; it was an hour s ride, and there was 
no other inside passenger. On the back of an old 
envelope I wrote in pencil the first two of the verses 
now so well known, in order to teach the tune to the 
village school supported by my step-mother, and which 
it was my province to visit. The third verse was added 
afterward to make it a missionary hymn. My father 
superintended the Sunday-school in which we taught, 
and used to let the children choose the first hymn. 
One Sunday the children started their new hymn. My 
father turned to his younger daughters and said, 
1 Where did that come from ? I never heard it before/ 
Oh, Jemima made it/ they replied. Next day he 
asked for a copy, and sent it, without my knowledge, 
to The Sunday-School Teachers Magazine/ But 
for this it would probably never have appeared in 
print." Mrs. Luke adds regarding her composition : 
" It was a little inspiration from above, and not in 
me/ for I have never written other verses worthy of 
preservation." 

There is a Fountain 

Words by the Rev. William Cowper Music by Dr. Lowell Masoa 

" There is a fountain filled with blood, 
Drawn from Immanuel s veins." 

Born of a personal experience when the author 
was forty years old, this hymn of faith for more than 
a century has been eminently useful in the practical 
work of evangelizing the world. 

Along the streets of Glasgow, shortly after our 
first visit to Scotland, a little boy passed one evening, 
singing " There is a fountain filled with blood." A 



Of the Gospel Hymns 283 

Christian policeman joined in the song, and when he 
had finished his beat he asked the boy if he understood 
what he was singing. " Oh, yes," said the little fellow, 
" I know it in my heart, and it is very precious." A 
few evenings afterward some one asked the policeman : 
* Do you know that a woman standing where we are, 
was awakened and saved the other night by hearing, 
There is a fountain/ sung by a policeman and a boy ?" 

jf*it 

A lieutenant in the Union army, having received 
his death-wound in a gallant charge at the head of his 
regiment, was visited in the hospital by the chaplain, 
who inquired how he felt. He said he had always been 
cheerful, and was now ready to meet God in peace. 
" Chaplain," he added, " I was passing through the 
streets of New York once on a Sunday night, and I 
heard singing. I went in and saw a company of poor 
people. They were singing There is a fountain filled 
with blood. I was overpowered with the impression 
the hymn made upon me, and I gave my heart to God. 
Since then I have loved Jesus, and I love him now." 
That was his last speech. 

There is a Green Hill far away 

Words by Cecil F. Alexander Music by George C. Stebbins 

"There is a green hill far away, 
Without a city wall." 

While holding meetings with Mr. Moody, at Car 
diff, Wales, in 1883, I visited the ruins of Tintern 
Abbey with Professor Drummond. While there I 
sang this song, which the professor said to me was 
one of the finest hymns in the English language. A 



284 Sankey s Story 

number of years later I sang it on the green hill be 
lieved to be Calvary, outside the walls of Jerusalem. 

Mrs. Alexander was the wife of the Most Rev 
erend W. Alexander, D. D., Archbishop of Armagh. 
She first published "There is a green hill far away" 
in her "Hymns for Little Children" in 1848. It is a 
popular children s hymn in England. Mr. Stebbins 
set it to a new tune in 1884. Mrs. Alexander wrote 
about four hundred hymns and poems for children. 

There ll be no Dark Valley 

Words by the Rev. W. O. Cushing Music by Ira D. Sankey 

" There ll be no dark valley when Jesus comes, 
There ll be no dark valley when Jesus comes." 

One night during the Boxer revolt, when the Chi 
nese had set fire to many buildings and it seemed as 
though all the missionaries and native Christians in a 
besieged city would be destroyed, the children belong 
ing to the Junior Christian Endeavor Society held a 
meeting in a chapel. While the cracklings of the 
flames, the sharp report of the Chinese guns, and the 
cries of men and women running to and fro were 
rending the air, these little disciples of Jesus were 
singing : " There ll be no dark valley when Jesus 



A missionary, working in the slums of a city in 
Ireland, writes me as follows : " I feel constrained to 
thank you from the bottom of my soul for all the great 
blessings I have received from singing your songs. 

I am a worker in the slums of , and I find that your 

songs reach the hearts of fallen men and women before 



Of the Gospel Hymns 285 

anything else. I have just returned home from our 
meeting, and the message I sang to-night was your 
sweet song : There ll be no dark valley when Jesus 
comes. I want to thank you in particular for this 
song, because it presents death to us in such a glorious 
way. The old Welsh people used to speak and sing 
of death as something very fearful a dark river, great 
waves and so on and I remember my dear mother 
singing all the Welsh hymns referring to death, until I 
shuddered. But, praise the Lord, I know now that 
it is different. Your little song has confirmed this 
belief in me not only, but in many, many more souls." 

A* 

I arranged this hymn from the words which Mr. 
W. O. Gushing wrote for me, of which, however, I 
used only the first line, "There ll be no dark valley 
when Jesus comes." It has of late become quite a 
favorite throughout the country. 

There s a Light in the Valley 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by P. P. Blist 

" Through the valley of the shadow I must go, 
Where the cold waves of Jordan roll." 

" Some years ago I was in the dark," a young lady 
of London told me, " and was seeking the Lord day 
and night ; but I could get no rest or peace for my soul. 
For two or three weeks the title of There s a Light in 
the Valley kept ringing in my ears. I had never care 
fully read through the hymn, but in my constant plead 
ings with the Lord I always begged for this light of 
the valley to be given to me. And one night Christ 
gave the light I had been asking for. I cannot de- 



286 Sankey s Story 

scribe my joy when I could say, There is a light in 
the valley for me/ I scarcely slept that night, for the 
words would come to me again and again. It is now 
my privilege, sometimes, to help sing them for others, 
and then they seem to bring a fresh wave of my Sav 
iour s love to me, as they did on that blessed night." 

Throw Out the Life-Line 

Words and Music by the Rev. E. S. Ufford Arr. by Geo. C. Stebbins 

" Throw out the Life-Line across the dark wave, 
There is a brother whom some one should save." 

The author of this famous hymn, while living in 
Massachusetts near the ocean, one day saw a vessel 
wrecked near the shore, and this suggested the idea 
of the song. Mr. Stebbins shortly afterward, about 
1889, obtained it from the author, and made a number 
of changes in Mr. U fford s harmony. From Mr. Steb 
bins I secured it for publication in " Gospel Hymns " 
and in " Sacred Songs and Solos." It became one of 
the most useful of evangelistic hymns, and was often 
sung with effect at our meetings in Great Britain. 

fftj 

A Christian commercial traveler has just sent me 
this word : " A few of us were holding a street meeting 
at Warsaw, Indiana, last August. Throw out the 
Life-Line had been sung, and a man spoke as follows : 
I live at North Tonawanda, on the Niagara River. 
Some time ago my son was walking toward home 
when he heard a scream from the river. He rushed 
down and saw a young lady struggling in the water, 
being swept down the river. He hurriedly took off 
his coat, vest and shoes, jumped in, swam to the lady, 



Of the Gospel Hymns 287 

took hold of her and called to some men, who were 
farther down the river, to throw out a life-line. The 
men heard the voice, saw the man and woman being 
swept down the river, and hastily threw out a line to 
them. But it was just about three feet too short. My 
son and the woman were swept over the falls and 
both were drowned/ There were two or three hun 
dred people at this street meeting, and the speaker 
made the application that we should be sure that our 
life-line is long enough to reach the people we are 
after. It was a very effective service, and resulted in 
at least one conversion." 

4*0 

Professor Drummond told me this story, and 
made his own application of it : " On the coast of Spain 
a great storm was raging, and a wrecked vessel came 
drifting near the light-house. The cries of the perish 
ing seamen were heard in the darkness. The light 
house keeper, in making his report to the government 
which was required by law in the case of a wreck 
said : We rendered all possible aid from the top of 
the light-house with the speaking trumpet; notwith 
standing, the next morning twenty corpses were found 
on the shore and the vessel had disappeared/ This is 
too often the case in our preaching. We get into a 
high pulpit and shout at the top of our voices, but we 
seldom take the life-line in our hands and go down to 
those who are perishing in the waves of sin, to rescue 
them ere it is too late." 

4W 

A man on an Atlantic steamer told me another 
story, which in its way illustrates the song : " One 
stormy night at sea a cry was raised on board a 



288 Sankey s Story 

steamer, Man overboard ; man overboard ! A num 
ber of the alarmed passengers ran to the captain and 
begged him to stop the vessel. He roughly told them 
to mind their own business and not to bother him. As 
he said this a seaman ran up to the bridge and cried 
that the man who had gone overboard was the captain s 
brother. This made a great difference to the captain. 
He at once reversed the vessel, rushed to the stern, 
seized a life-line, and threw it as far as he could 
toward the drowning man, hoping that he might be 
able to lay hold of it. Fortunately the man seized the 
line, and, tying it around his body, cried : Pull away, 
pull away ! The captain cried, Have you hold of 
the line ? A faint answer came back, The line has 
hold of me/ In a little while the man was drawn on 
board and saved." 

To-day the Saviour Calls 

Words by S. F. Smith Music by Lowell Mason 

"To-day the Saviour calls; 
Ye wand rers, come." 

For inducing immediate acceptance of the offer of 
salvation through faith in Christ this hymn has been 
of great value. In one of his sermons Mr. Moody 
refers to my singing it on a night never to be for 
gotten : 

" For four or five nights in succession I had been 
preaching in Chicago on the subject of The Life of 
Christ/ and we had followed him from the cradle to 
the judgment hall of Pilate. I have always felt that 
on that night I made one of the greatest mistakes of 
my life. How often I have wished that I could call 



Of the Gospel Hymns 289 

back what I said to the congregation at the close of 
the meeting on that memorable night of the Chicago 
fire ! That night I spoke from the text, What shall 
I do with Jesus ? and as I closed I said : Now I want 
you to take this question home with you, think it ever, 
and next Sunday night I want you to come back here 
and tell me what you are going to do with Jesus. 
What a mistake ! I gave them a week to decide ; but 
I never met that audience again. Even then the huge 
bell of the court-house near by was tolling out what 
proved to be the death-knell of the city. How well I 
remember the hymn Mr. Sankey sang as a solo at the 
closing moment of that meeting, as his voice rang out : 

To-day the Saviour calls ; for refuge fly ; 
The storm of justice falls, and death is nigh. 

It seemed almost prophetic. It was the last verse sung 
in that beautiful hall. We closed the meeting and 
went out into the streets, never to meet again. It is 
estimated that a thousand lives were lost that night. 
As many of them were lost near Farwell Hall, it may 
have been that some who heard me say that night, 
Take a week to decide the question/ were among the 
lost ones." 

To the Work 

Words by Fanny J. Crosby Music by W. H. Doane 

"To the work! to the work! we are servants of God, 
Let us follow the path that our Master has trod." 

Fanny Crosby wrote the words of this hymn in 
1869, and it was set to music by W. H. Doane two 
years later. I sang it for the first time in the home 
of Mr. and Mrs. J. B. Cornell at Long Branch. The 



290 Sankey s Story 

servants gathered from all parts of the house while 
I was singing, and looked into the parlor where I was 
seated. When I was through one of them said : "That 
is the finest hymn I have heard for a long time ; won t 
you please sing it over again ? " I felt that this was a 
test case, and that if the hymn had such power over 
those servants it would be useful in reaching other 
people as well ; so I published it in " Gospel Hymns " 
in 1875, where it became one of the best work-songs 
for our meetings that we had. 

Trust and Obey 

Words by the Rev. J. H. Sammis Music by D. D. Towner 

"When we walk with the Lord, 
In the light of his Word." 

" Some years ago," says Professor Towner, mu 
sical director of the Moody Bible Institute, " Mr. 
Moody was conducting a series of meetings in Brock 
ton, Massachusetts, and I had the pleasure of singing 
for him there. One night a young man rose in a testi 
mony meeting and said, I am not quite sure but I 
am going to trust, and I am going to obey. I just 
jotted that sentence down, and sent it with the little 
story to the Rev. J. H. Sammis, a Presbyterian min 
ister. He wrote the hymn, and the tune was born. 
The chorus, 

Trust and obey, 
For there s no other way 
To be happy in Jesus 
But to trust and obey/ 

was written before the hymn was." 



Of the Gospel Hymns 291 

Trusting Jesus, That is All 

Words by E. P. Stites Music by Ira D. Sankey 

"Simply trusting every day, 
Trusting through a stormy way." 

"About two years ago," writes a minister, "I 
visited a woman who was suffering from an incurable 
disease; but great as was her agony of body, her dis 
tress of mind was greater still. One day she said: 
The future is so dark, I dare not look forward at 
all/ 

" To my question, Can t you trust yourself in 
God s hands ? she replied : No, I can t leave myself 
there/ 

" I repeated the hymn, Simply trusting ev ry 
day/ and especially dwelt on the refrain, Trusting 
as the moments fly, trusting as the days go by/ Ah/ 
she said, I can trust him this moment ; is it like that ? 
I then sang the hymn to her, and the change that came 
over her was wonderful. She never lost this trust, 
and she had the page in her hymn-book turned down, 
that she might have the hymn read to her. After 
many months of intense suffering she passed away, 
simply trusting/ to the land where there shall be no 
more pain." 

s*r 

The words of this hymn were handed to Mr. 
Moody at Chicago, in 1876, in the form of a news 
paper clipping. He gave them to me, and asked me 
to write a tune for them. I assented, on condition 
that he should vouch for the doctrine taught in the 
verses, and he said he would. 



292 Sankey s Story 

Under His Wings 

Words by the Rev. W. O. Gushing Music by Ira D. Sankey 

"Under His wings I am safely abiding; 
Though the night deepens and tempests are wild." 

As Mr. Moody used to approach the seminary 
building at Northfield, Massachusetts, to conduct the 
morning worship, the young ladies there would join 
in the singing of this hymn as he entered the room. 
It was one of their popular hymns, as it was also of 
the Estey Quartet made up of the leading singers of 
the seminary. 

The music of this hymn was among my later com 
positions. 

Af 

A young man in a hospital in Western Massachu 
setts was once visited by a minister, and after he had 
prayed, the invalid asked him to sing his favorite song, 
"Under His Wings/ saying that it had been the 
means of his conversion. The hymn was sung, and 
in a short time the listener had passed away to the 
shelter under his Master s wings. 

Verily, Verily 

Words by James McGranahan Music by James McGranahan 

"O what a Saviour that He died for me! 
From condemnation He hath made me free." 

" About twenty years ago," writes the Rev. James 
Sprunt, of London, " Mrs. S one evening left her 
home, near Blandford Square, to visit some of her 
friends. She was disappointed to find that they were 
not at home. She called upon others, but they also 



Of the Gospel Hymns 293 

had gone out. Vexed in mind and weary in body she 
was returning to her home. Passing the doors of 
Omega Hall, she was invited to the service then being 
held inside. She entered, and enjoyed the service, 
especially the singing of O what a Saviour, that He 
died for me ! This was good news to her soul. By 
the Spirit of God she had been taught her lost condi 
tion. What was she to do? She had been told in 
the Hall to repent and believe the Gospel, to accept 
Christ as her Saviour, and to rest her soul on the fin 
ished work of Calvary s cross. She heard all this, but 
did not obey. But when she retired that night her 
mind could not rest. During her sleep she dreamed 
that she was in the meeting and had again joined in 
the hymn, O, what a Saviour, that He died for me ! 
and with the dreamy singing she awoke to say, not 
in a dream and not in unbelief, but with true faith in 
God s Son, From condemnation He hath made me 
free/ " 

Waiting and Watching for Me 

Words by Marianne Hearn Music by P. P. Bliss 

"When my final farewell to the world I have said, 
And gladly lie down to my rest." 

At one of Mr. Moody s meetings in Farwell Hall, 
Chicago, this testimony was given on one occasion; 
" For many years past I have been an infidel, and often 
lectured to audiences in opposition to the Bible. To 
day, in the presence of all you who see me, I declare 
that I am a converted man. I owe the softening of 
my hitherto stony heart to a Gospel hymn sung by 
Mr. Bliss, the refrain of which is, Will any one then, 



294 Sankey s Story 

at the beautiful gate, be waiting and watching for 
me ? It reminded me so tenderly of my Christian 
wife, parents, brothers, sisters and children who have 
gone before me that it quite broke me down; and now 
Christ and the Word have become my best hope and 
stronghold." 

Welcome! Wanderer, Welcome! 

Words by Horatius Bonar Music by Ira D. Sankey 

"In the land of strangers, 
Whither thou art gone." 

" An editor of a paper in the South," says one 
who was connected with the Florence Mission at the 
time this incident occurred, " lost all through drink 
and dissipation, and one day left his wife and five 
children to look after themselves. Without bidding 
them good-bye he left home, determined not to re 
turn until he was a man and could live a sober life. 
In New York he sank still lower. One night he 
pawned some of his clothing; but soon he was again 
penniless and had no place to sleep. He then wrote 
a note to his wife, bidding her good-bye, saying they 
would never see each other again, as he had decided 
to die that night. He was walking toward East 
River when the sound of music attracted his attention. 
He looked up and saw the sign, The Florence/ That 
was the name of his oldest daughter. He listened ; a 
lady was singing a song his wife used to sing on Sun 
day afternoons at home, words that went to his heart, 

In the land of strangers, whither thou art gone, 
Hear a far voice calling, "My son, My son! 
Welcome! wanderer, welcome! Welcome back to home! 
Thou hast wandered far away: Come home, come home!" 1 



Of the Gospel Hymns 295 

The song, coupled with the name that was his daugh 
ter s, led him to think we were praying for him. He 
came in, drunk as he was, and asked us to do so. He 
became a convert and an earnest Christian worker, and 
has held a position of responsibility in business for 
many years, he and his family having been reunited." 

A* 

Written for me by Dr. Bonar, in 1883, this hymn 
became the favorite song of the choir of over fifteen 
hundred voices, led by Percy S. Foster, at our meet 
ings in the great Convention Hall in Washington dur 
ing the winter of 1894. 

What a Friend We have in Jesus 

Words by Joseph Scriven Music by Charles C. Converse 

"What a friend we have in Jesus, 
All our sins and griefs to bear." 

Thousands have been cheered in time of trouble, 
and so led nearer to Christ, by this sweet and simple 
hymn; for very few hymns have been more widely 
published or more frequently sung. The author was 
born in Dublin in 1820, and came to Canada when he 
was twenty-five. There he lived a useful life until 
his death in 1886. The young lady to whom he was 
to be married was accidentally drowned on the eve 
of their wedding day. This led him to consecrate his 
life and fortune to the service of Christ. Though a 
graduate of Trinity College and a man of refinement, 
he chose humble duties. One afternoon he was seen 
walking down the streets of Port Hope, where he 
lived, dressed as a plain workingman and carrying a 



296 Sankey s Story 

saw-horse and a saw on his mission of help. A citi 
zen, noticing that a friend recognized him, said : 

" Do you know that man ? What is his name and 
where does he live? I want some one to cut wood, 
and I find it difficult to get a sober man to do the work 
faithfully." 

" But you can t get that man," was the reply. 
" That is Mr. Scriven. He won t cut wood for you." 

" Why not? " queried the gentleman. 

" Because you are able to pay for it. He only 
saws wood for poor widows and sick people." 

Until a short time before his death it was not 
known that he had a poetic gift. A neighbor, sitting 
up with him in his illness, happened upon a manuscript 
copy of " What a friend we have in Jesus." Reading 
it with great delight and questioning Mr. Scriven 
about it, he said that he had composed it for his 
mother, to comfort her in a time of special sorrow, 
not intending that anyone else should see it. Some 
time later, when another Port Hope neighbor asked 
him if it was true that he composed the hymn, his 
reply was : " The Lord and I did it between us." 

M* 

Returning from England in 1875, I soon became 
associated with P. P. Bliss in the publication of what 
later became known as " Gospel Hymns No. i." 
After we had given the completed compilation to our 
publishers I chanced to pick up a small paper-covered 
pamphlet of Sunday-school hymns, published at Rich 
mond, Virginia. I discovered this and sang it 
through, and determined to have it appear in " Gospel 
Hymns." As the composer of the music was my 



Of the Gospel Hymns 297 

friend C. C. Converse, I withdrew from the collection 
one of his compositions and substituted for it, " What 
a friend we have in Jesus." Thus the last hymn that 
went into the book became one of the first in favor. 

As published in the small Richmond hymnal, the 
authorship of the words was erroneously attributed 
to the great Scotch preacher and hymn-writer, Dr. 
Horatius Bonar. We were in error, also, in assign 
ing the words to him. Some years afterward Dr. 
Bonar informed us that he was not the author, and 
that he did not know who wrote it. It was not until 
six or eight years after the hymn first appeared in 
our collection that we learned who the author really 
was. 

What must it be to be There? 

Words by Mrs. Elizabeth Mills Music by George C. Stebbins 

"We speak of the land of the blest, 
A country so bright and so fair." 

" You see that I am still in the land of the 
dying," wrote Philip Phillips, "The Singing Pilgrim," 
shortly before his death at Delaware, Ohio. " Why 
I linger so long is to me a problem. The precious 
Saviour is more to me than I ever expected when I 
was well. Often during the night seasons I have real 
visions; I am walking on the banks of the Beautiful 
River, and getting glimpses of the bright Beyond. The 
lines that come most often to me are these: 

We speak of the land of the blest, 
A country so bright and so fair, 
And oft are its glories confest, 
But what must it be to be there? 



298 Sankey*s Story 

Blessed be God ! I shall soon know. What a singing 
time we will have when we get there ! " 

What Shall the Harvest Be? 

Words by Emily S. Oakley Music by P. P. Bliss 

"Sowing the seed by the daylight fair, 
Sowing the seed by the noonday glare." 

In the winter of 1876 Mr. Moody and I were 
holding meetings in Chicago in a large building owned 
by John V. Farwell, one of Mr. Moody s first and 
most valued friends in that city. It was our custom 
to hold temperance meetings on Friday afternoons. 
At one of these meetings the following testimony was 
given : 

" At the breaking out of the war in 1861 I en 
listed in the army and was soon appointed a first lieu 
tenant. I was not yet eighteen and had never been 
away from home influences. I had never tasted liquor 
and did not know one card from another. The regi 
ment to which I was assigned was principally officered 
by young men, but many of them were old in dissi 
pation. This new life was attractive to me, and I 
entered upon it with avidity. I was soon a steady 
drinker and a constant card-player. I laughed at the 
caution of the older heads, and asserted with all the 
egotism of a boy that I could abandon my bad habits 
at any time I wanted to. But I soon found that my 
evil desires had complete control over my will. In 
1870, being a physical wreck, I resigned, and deter 
mined to begin a new life. Time and again I failed, 
and at last I gave up all hope and abandoned myself 
to the wildest debauchery, speculating with reckless 



Of the Gospel Hymns 299 

indifference on how much longer my body could en 
dure the strain. In anticipation of sudden death I 
destroyed all evidence of my identity, so that my 
friends might never know the dog s death I had died. 
It was while in this condition that I one day wandered 
into this Tabernacle and found a seat in the gallery. 
There I sat in my drunken and dazed condition, look 
ing down upon well-dressed and happy people. I 
concluded that it was no place for me, and was just 
about to go out, when out of a perfect stillness rose the 
voice of Mr. Sankey singing the song, What Shall 
the Harvest be? The words and music stirred me 
with a strange sensation. I listened till the third verse 
had been sung: 

Sowing the seed of a lingering pain, 
Sowing the seed of a maddened brain, 
Sowing the seed of a tarnished name, 
Sowing the seed of eternal shame; 
Oh, what shall the harvest be? 

These words pierced my heart. In desperation I 
rushed downstairs and out into the snowy streets. I 
soon found a saloon, where I asked for liquor to drown 
my sorrow. On every bottle in the bar-room, in 
words of burning fire, I could read What shall the 
harvest be ? When I took up my glass to drink I 
read, written on it, What shall the harvest be ? and 
I dashed it to the floor and rushed out again into the 
cold, dark night. The song still followed me wherever 
I went, and finally drew me back to the Tabernacle 
two weeks later. I found my way into the inquiry- 
room and was spoken to by a kind-hearted, loving 
brother. With his open Bible he pointed me to the 



300 Sankey*s Story 

Great Physician who had power to cure me and heal 
me of my appetite, if I would only receive him. 
Broken, weak, vile and helpless, I came to him, and 
by his grace I was able to accept him as my Re 
deemer; and I have come here to-day to bear my tes 
timony to the power of Jesus to save to the utter 
most/ 

We were all deeply touched by this testimony, 
and there was scarcely a dry eye in the audience. A 
week later this man came into our waiting-room and 
showed me a letter from his little daughter, which 
read about as follows: 

" Dear Papa : Mamma and I saw in the Chicago 
papers that a man had been saved in the meetings 
there, who was once a lieutenant in the army, and I 
told mamma that I thought it was my papa. Please 
write to us as soon as you can, as mamma cannot be 
lieve that it was you." 

This letter was received by the man at the gen 
eral post-office. The mother and their two children 
were sent for, and with the help of Mr. Moody a home 
was soon secured for them and employment for the 
man. He was asked to go to many places to give his 
experience, and he soon became so effective in his 
addresses that his friends prevailed upon him to study 
for the ministry. Eventually he became a pastor of a 
large church in the Northwest, where he labored for 
a number of years till his death, in Evanston, Illinois, 
in 1899. His name was W. O. Lattimore. He wrote 
a hymn for me, entitled, " Out of the darkness into 
light," which I set to music. 

The author of " What shall the harvest be? " who 



Of the Gospel Hymns 301 

was born at Albany, was a frail, delicate woman, al 
ways an invalid, never having known, as she once said, 
an hour of health in all her life. 



When Jesus Comes 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by P. P. Bliss 

"Down life s dark vale we wander, 
Till Jesus comes." 

One day in 1872 Mr. Bliss heard a conversation 
between two of his friends, who were speaking on 
the subject of the return of our Lord. One of the 
ladies quoted a line from a work of Anna Shipton, 
" This may be the day of His coming," and spoke of 
the joy and comfort the thought gave her. Mr. Bliss 
was much impressed, more deeply than ever before, 
as to the reality of this subject; and a few days after 
as he was coming downstairs from his room, still oc 
cupied with the thought of looking for Christ s ap 
pearing, he commenced singing, " Down life s dark 
vale we wander," the words and music coming to him 
as he took the successive steps down the stairs. He 
at once wrote it down just as we have it to-day in 
" Gospel Hymns." 

When the Mists have Rolled Away 

Words by Annie Herbert Music by Ira D. Sankey 

"When the mists have rolled in splendor 
From the beauty of the hills." 

I sang this hymn for the first time in The Free 
Trade Hall, in Manchester, in 1883, at one of Mr. 
Moody s meetings. The service was held at eight 



3 02 Sankey s Story 

o clock on a gloomy winter morning. The hall was 
densely crowded and filled with mist, so much so that 
the people could hardly be discerned at the farther end 
of the hall. I felt the need of something to brighten 
up the meeting, and then and there decided to launch 
this new song. It was received with much enthusi 
asm, and at once became a favorite of Mr. Moody s, 
and continued to be so until his death. 

When the Roll is Called up Yonder 

Words by J. M. Black Music by J. M. Black 

When the trumpet of the Lord shall sound, and time shall be 

no more, 
And the morning breaks, eternal, bright and fair." 

" While a teacher in a Sunday-school and presi 
dent of a young people s society," says the author of 
this hymn, " I one day met a girl, fourteen years old, 
poorly clad and the child of a drunkard. She accepted 
my invitation to attend the Sunday-school, and joined 
the young people s society. One evening at a conse 
cration-meeting, when members answered the roll- 
call by repeating Scripture texts, she failed to respond. 
I spoke of what a sad thing it would be, when our 
names are called from the Lamb s Book of Life, if 
one of us should be absent ; and I said, O God, when 
my own name is called up yonder, may I be there to 
respond ! I longed for something suitable to sing 
just then, but I could find nothing in the books. We 
closed the meeting, and on my way home I was still 
wishing that there might be a song that could be sung 
on such occasions. The thought came to me, Why 
don t you make it? I dismissed the idea, thinking 



Of the Gospel Hymns 303 

that I could never write such a hymn. When I 
reached my house my wife saw that I was deeply trou 
bled, and questioned me, but I made no reply. Then 
the words of the first stanza came to me in full. 
In fifteen minutes more I had composed the other 
two verses. Going to the piano, I played the music 
just as it is found to-day in the hymn-books, note for 
note, and I have never dared to change a single word 
or a note of the piece since." 

Where is My Boy To-Night? 

Words by Robert Lowry Music by Robert Lowry 

"Where is my wandering boy to-night 
The boy of my tenderest care?" 

A mother came to me in Boston and asked me if 
I would try to find her wandering boy in California 
when I should go there with Mr. Moody to hold meet 
ings. I promised to do what I could. For several 
weeks, as opportunity presented itself, I searched the 
cheap boarding-houses for the young man. At last 
I found him in the slums of the city and asked him 
to come to our meetings. He refused, saying that 
he was not fit to be seen there; but after much per 
suasion he came. One evening I sang : " Where is 
my wandering boy," and prefaced it with a few re 
marks, saying that I knew of one dear mother in the 
East who was praying for her wandering boy to-night. 
This, together with the song, touched the young man s 
heart, and he found his way into the inquiry-room, 
where, with my open Bible, I was enabled by God s 
grace to lead him into the light. I wrote to his mother 
and told her that her boy had been found, and that 



304 Sankey*s Story 

he was now a professed Christian. She sent me money 
to pay his railway fare back to Boston, and in a short 
time he had reached home and received a hearty wel 
come. He soon found employment, and became a use 
ful citizen, and has since been a follower of Christ. 

4* 

" I heard Chancellor Sims relate," states the Rev. 
H. B. Gibbud, " that he was once traveling with a man 
from the West who was on his way to visit his father, 
whom he had left years before when he was a boy. 
There had been trouble between them, and the father 
had told the son that he could go. In his anger the 
boy said that he would, and that he would never re 
turn. He had gone West, where he became a wealthy 
ranch owner; but he had never written to his father 
and had held the anger in his heart toward him all 
those years. Then he told the Chancellor how it was 
that he was now returning. A train on which he had 
been traveling had been snowed in, and people living 
near had made up a load of provisions and taken them 
to the imprisoned passengers. Then it was discov 
ered that Mr. Sankey was on board, and at the peo 
ple s request he came out on the steps and sang: 
Where is my wandering boy ? * That song touched 
this man s heart, led him to God, and he was now 
going East to seek reconciliation with his parents." 

iit 

A wayward boy was brought by a friend to the 
evening service of the Rev. J. H. Byers, of Stanberry, 
Missouri. Having learned something of his condition, 
Mr. Byers asked the leader of the choir to sing as a 
solo : " Where is my wandering boy to-night ? " which 



Of the Gospel Hymns 305 

he did with great feeling. The boy was converted, 
the next evening he united with the church, and he 
has continued to be an active, praying worker ever 
since. The young man s parents were devoted Chris 
tians. On the same night and until the next after 
noon, for what was an unknown reason to them, they 
were led to pray most earnestly for their lost boy. 
During the time when the prayer-meeting was being 
held, they were comforted, and believed that they 
would hear good news. In a few hours they received 
a telegram that their boy was saved. At the meeting 
where this hymn was sung there were present the 
parents of two other boys who had left their homes, 
and as the solo was sung they prayed that their boys 
might be saved and brought home. In a few days let 
ters were received from those boys, telling their par 
ents that they were saved on the night when the solo 
was sung and the prayers were sent up for them. 

The author of this hymn, which has done more 
to bring back wandering boys than any other, became 
a follower of Christ at the age of seventeen. After a 
score of years in different pastorates he accepted the 
professorship of letters in his alma mater, Bucknell 
University, together with the pastorate of another 
church. This double service he performed for six 
years, and then moved to Plainfield, New Jersey, 
where he lived until his death, in 1899, at the age of 
seventy-three. Dr. Lowry will continue to preach the 
Gospel in his hymns long after his sermons have been 
forgotten. Many of his hymns were written after 
the Sunday evening service, when his body was weary 
but his mind refused to rest. 



306 Sankey s Story 

Whiter Than Snow 

Words by James Nicholson Music by Wm. G. Fisher 

"Lord Jesus, I long to be perfectly whole; 
I want Thee forever to live in my soul." 

" In the spring of 1893," relates the Rev. Mr. 
Bradley, a Methodist minister in Utah, " a lady who 
had come from Ireland as a Mormon immigrant sev 
eral years before was brought under very pungent 
conviction of sin, which lasted for several days. She 
attended our services several times, but seemed to get 
no relief. On the following Monday morning, while 
she was about her work as usual, the burden had be 
come almost unbearable. As she worked she began to 
sing, Lord Jesus, I long to be perfectly whole ; and 
when she came to the closing words, To those who 
sought Thee, Thou never saidst No/ a feeling came 
over her like a flash, she says, that He would not say 
No to her. From that moment the burden was 
lifted and she was filled with joy." 

HHf 

Mr. Fischer, the composer, was a resident of Phil 
adelphia, and in 1876 was the leader of the Moody 
and Sankey choir in the great building at Thirteenth 
and Market streets, in that city. 

Whosoever Will 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by P. P. Bliss 

" Whosoever heareth, shout, shout the sound! 
Send the blessed tidings all the world around." 

Henry Moorehouse, the English evangelist, 
preached seven sermons on John 3: 16 in Chicago 
during the winter of 1869-70. Those sermons made 



Of the Gospel Hymns 307 

a very deep impression on Mr. Bliss, Mr. Moody and 
others, and from that time a new and clearer view 
of the love of God was experienced by many who 
went forth to preach perhaps not less about the law, 
but surely more about the boundless love of God in 
Jesus Christ. As an outcome of this experience the 
hymn was written at that time. In singing it, Bliss 
put special emphasis on the word " whosoever." So he 
helped many a man to believe in the magnificent offer 
of salvation, and like Richard Baxter, the famous 
London preacher to praise the Lord. " I thank 
God," he said, " for the word whosoever/ If God 
had said that there was mercy for Richard Baxter, I 
am so vile a sinner that I would have thought he 
meant some other Richard Baxter; but when he says 
whosoever/ I know that it includes me, the worst of 
all Richard Baxters." 

Why not To-Night? 

Words by Eliza Reed Music by Ira D. Sankey 

"Oh, do not let the Word depart, 
And close thine eyes against the light." 

A tram-car man was passing along the broadway 
at Deptford, England, where some Christians were 
singing at an open-air meeting. 

"Oh, do not let the Word depart, 

Nor close thine eyes against the light; 
Poor sinner, harden not thy heart, 
Thou would st be saved Why not to-night?" 

He felt the force of the appeal and hastened home to 
pray. Though he knelt down and plead earnestly, 
no light, or peace, or rest came. A fortnight passed 



U3-URY . 

KNOX COLLEGE 

TORONTO 



308 Sanketfs Story 

away in this state of uncertainty, and on the following 
Sunday he was so miserable that he could not go to 
his work on the tram-car. In the evening he went to 
a chapel and remained for the prayer-meeting. The 
leader of the open-air meeting, in which the hymn was 
sung a fortnight before, happened to be present, and 
he saw the young man weeping and covering his face 
with his handkerchief. Praying the Lord to give him 
a word for this troubled soul, the leader asked : " Are 
you trusting Christ ? " " No, but I am seeking Him/ 
the man replied. And there he found Him, to the joy 
of his soul. Thus, in the providence of God, the 
Christian worker who was the cause of producing the 
anxiety, without knowing at the time any of the cir 
cumstances, was also the means of removing it. This 
is but one of the numerous instances of the usefulness 
of " Why not To-night? " in evangelistic meetings. 

Windows open toward Jerusalem 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by P. P. Bliss 

"Do you see the Hebrew captive kneeling, 
At morning, noon and night, to pray?" 

While attending a Sunday service at the State 
Prison in Joliet, Illinois, where he had gone to sing, 
P. P. Bliss heard H. G. Spafford of Chicago, who 
wrote " It is well with my soul," address the prisoners, 
and use Daniel in Babylon as an illustration of Gospel 
truth, asking the question in closing, " Are your win 
dows open toward Jerusalem ? " This suggested the 
hymn to Mr. Bliss. 

About a month before his death Mr. Bliss came to 
Chicago to attend a convention called by Mr. Moody, 



Of the Gospel Hymns 309 

and there, at a morning meeting, where over a thou 
sand ministers were present, he sang, " Are your win 
dows open toward Jerusalem ? " with intense spiritual 
feeling. One minister cried out : " God bless Mr. 
Bliss for that song ! " His face fairly shone as he 
sang, and half of those present were in tears under 
the influence of the song. Mr. Moody, rilled with 
emotion, leaned his head forward upon the desk. It 
was the last time he heard his beloved friend and 
brother sing. 

I often used to sing this song as a solo in connec 
tion with Mr. Moody s lectures on the prophet Daniel. 

Wonderful Words of Life 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by P. P. Bliss 

"Sing them over again to me, 
Wonderful words of Life." 

" While visiting an old man, who suffered much 
from rheumatic gout," narrates a Methodist minister 
of Birmingham, England, " I was led to start up, 
* Sing them over again to me, wonderful words of 
Life. When I had finished and while the tears were 
coursing down his cheeks, he exclaimed, Oh, sing 
them over again to me, those wonderful words of life! 
for they take my pain away/ And so I repeated that 
God-sent message to the poor old sufferer, who soon 
afterward passed away to the land where there is no 
more pain. 

" On another occasion this hymn became very 
useful to me. I was preaching to a crowded audience 
at Dartmouth on a Sunday evening, when a young 
man fell from his seat near the pulpit, and the service 



310 Sankey*s Story 

was in danger because of the confusion. I started 
singing, Wonderful Words of Life/ in which the 
whole congregation joined heartily. By the time we 
had sung the hymn through the young man had re 
covered consciousness and found his seat again, lis 
tening earnestly to my sermon on the theme, In God s 
Word there are spirit and life/ Those present thought 
his case a living illustration of the song and sermon/ 

Ye Must be Born Again 

Words by W. T. Sleeper Music by George C. Stebbins 

"A ruler once came to Jesus by night, 
To ask Him the way of salvation and light;" 

" One evening in November, 1886," says the 
superintendent of a boys school, " I was walking 
along a street in St. Joseph, Missouri, when I saw be 
fore me a great crowd gathered around a door. On 
coming nearer I saw that it was at the entrance of 
the hall of the Young Men s Christian Association. 
In the doorway stood some young men, singing. Just 
as I came near enough to hear they began to sing: 

A ruler once came to Jesus by night, 

To ask Him the way of salvation and light; 

The Master made answer in words true and plain, 

Ye must be born again, again. 

When they came to the chorus the sword of the Spirit 
entered my soul. It seemed to me that I was brought 
face to face with the Lord Jesus. There on the street, 
while that song was being sung, I asked him to teach 
me how to be born again and he did it. I accepted 
an invitation to the service for the evening, and after 
that service, for the first time in my life, I publicly 



Of the Gospel Hymns 311 

acknowledged Christ as my Saviour. I have always 
considered that it was through the influence of that 
hymn that my soul was awakened. Many times have 
I thanked God for the song, as well as for the courage 
he gave to his disciples to sing it in that public way." 

MP 

Many years ago an English evangelist sent me 
this incident : " We were holding evangelistic meet 
ings," he said, " in a town in Perthshire, and there 
was one who helped us more effectually than we 
were at first aware of. I hardly know how we be 
came acquainted with Blind Aggie ; for, besides 
being old and blind, she was a great sufferer and could 
seldom creep beyond her doorstep. We were 
strangers in the place and no one told us of her; yet 
in the providence of God one of our party was led to 
visit her little room, discovering what a saint she was 
and how deeply interested in all she had heard about 
our intended meetings. She helped us mightily by 
prayer, and as far as she could by individual work. 
Lodging in the same flat with blind Aggie was a seam 
stress a poor, giddy, foolish girl in whom she took 
a deep interest. With great difficulty she persuaded 
this girl to attend one of our meetings. While the 
girl was at the meeting Aggie was praying for a bless 
ing upon her; and when she returned Aggie asked 
many questions, but to her sorrow could not find that 
any impression had been made on the young woman s 
heart. The good old woman induced the thoughtless 
girl to go again, and when she returned the second 
time it was late, and blind Aggie had already gone to 
bed. But the girl burst into the old woman s room 



312 Sankey s Story 

crying : Oh, Aggie, where are you ? I must tell you ! 
Well, dear, what is it? Come and tell me. Oh, 
but I want a light first, I canna tell ye in the dark. 
Though Aggie never had use for a candle, she told 
the girl where to find one. After it was lighted the 
girl burst forth from a full heart : Oh, Aggie, woman, 
I didna laugh this time! They sang a hymn, and it 
kept saying, Ye must be born again/ and it just laid 
hold on me, Aggie, and oh! I m born again! Jesus 
has taken me, Aggie ! " 

(IV&gt; 

" On a Sunday evening," relates a young lady of 
Dunfermline, Scotland, " I went with a companion to 
take a walk in the public park, when our attention was 
drawn to an open-air meeting. While we were stand 
ing there listening, the hymn Ye Must be Born Again 
was given out and sung. Two lines of the last verse, 

A dear one in heaven thy heart yearns to see 
At the beautiful gate may be watching for thee/ 

took a firm hold on me, and I felt that I must be born 
again, for I never could get there of myself. That 
night I went to the meeting and decided for Christ, 
and ever since that hymn has been very dear to me." 

Yet There is Room 

Words by Horatius Bonar Music by Ira D. Sankcy 

" Yet there is room ! The Lamb s bright hall of song, 
With its fair glory, beckons thee along." 

Dr. Bonar wrote this hymn at my request. I had 
been singing Tennyson s great poem, " Late, late, so 
late, and dark the night and chill," at our meetings in 



Of the Gospel Hymns 313 

Great Britain, in 1873-74, and, on asking permission 
of the owners of the copyright to use it in my collec 
tion of songs, was refused. I then requested Dr. 
Bonar to write a hymn that should cover much the 
same ground. " Yet there is room " was the result 
It was one of the first hymns for which I wrote music. 
It always had a very solemnizing effect on the meet 
ings, especially when the last lines were sung : " No 
room, no room oh, woful cry, No room/ " 

Yield Not to Temptation 

Words by H. R. Palmer Music by H. R. Palmer 

"Yield not to temptation, 
For yielding is sin ;" 

Mr. Palmer says : " This song was an inspiration. 
I was at work on the dry subject of Theory when 
the complete idea flashed upon me, and I laid aside 
the theoretical work and hurriedly penned both words 
and music as fast as I could write them. I submitted 
them to the criticism of a friend afterward, and some 
changes were made in the third stanza, but the first 
two are exactly as they came to me. The music was 
first written in A flat; but I soon saw that B flat was 
better, and for many years it has appeared in that key. 
I am reverently thankful it has been a power for good." 

4t? 

A friend contributes this incident : " Twenty 
years ago, when the State prison at Sing Sing, New 
York, had women as well as men within its walls, a 
lady used to visit the women s department. Every 
Sunday afternoon the inmates were permitted to come 
out and sit in the corridor to hear her talk, and to sing 



314 Sankey*s Story 

hymns with her. One day some of the women re 
belled against an order of the matron, and a terrible 
scene followed. Screams, threats, ribaldry and pro 
fanity filled the air. It was said, by those who knew, 
that an uprising among the women prisoners was 
worse and more difficult to quell than one among the 
men. The matron hastily sent to the men s depart 
ment for help. Suddenly a voice rose clear and strong 
above the tumult, singing a favorite song of the pris 
oners, 

Yield not to temptation, 

For yielding is sin; 
Each victory will help you 

Some other to win. 
Fight manfully onward, 
Dark passions subdue; 
Look ever to Jesus, 
He ll carry you through/ 

There was a lull ; then one after another joined in the 
sacred song ; and presently, with one accord, all formed 
into line and marched quietly to their cells." 

At 

A minister who at the time was laboring there, 
writes me that when Dr. Somerville, of Scotland, and 
Mr. Varley, of England, were in New Zealand, in the 
seventies, in connection with Young Men s Christian 
Association work, many young men found strength for 
life s temptations in the first lines of this hymn, which 
was sung at every meeting for months. 

&lt;4f 

" Some twenty- four years ago," writes James A. 
Watson, of Blackburn, England, "the Presbyterian 
church of England was preparing to issue a new book 



Of the Gospel Hymns 315 

of praise, The Church Praise/ now in use. I was 
asked to send in a suitable list of hymns for the young. 
Among the number I sent Yield not to temptation, 
but to my regret, when I got a draft copy of the pro 
posed hymn-book, that hymn was not in it. Three or 
four Sundays afterward I was requested by the 
teacher of the infant class in the St. George s School, 
where I have been superintendent for over forty years, 
to visit a dying boy. I found him unconscious. All 
that his widowed mother could tell me about him was 
that he had kept saying : He ll carry me through. 
When I asked her if she knew what he meant, she told 
me that she did not. She did not attend church or 
school. I told her that it was the chorus of a hymn, 
and pointed out how the good Shepherd was carrying 
her little boy through the valley; how he was gather 
ing her lamb in his loving arms. I also told her that 
the Saviour would carry her through her trouble, 
would comfort, strengthen and keep her, and at last 
bring her to the happy land where death-divided ones 
will meet to part no more. I was so much impressed 
by the incident that I wrote to the convener of the 
hymn-book committee, and pleaded for the insertion 
of the hymn in the new book. The committee put it 
in, and for twenty-three years the young people of 
our Presbyterian church have been able to sing it when 
wanted, all through the comfort it had been to a little 
dying boy, the only son of a widow, on a back street 
of Blackburn." 



JUST A WORD ABOUT 
OTHER WELL KNOWN HYMNS 



JUST A WORD ABOUT OTHER 
WELL KNOWN HYMNS 



A Song of Heaven and Homeland 

Words by Eben Rexford Music by Ira D. Sankey 

"Sometimes I hear strange music, 
Like none e er heard before." 

In the year 1901 Mr. Eben Rexford, editor of 
The Ladies Home Journal landscape and gardening 
department, wrote me, asking a donation of fifty 
copies of Gospel Hymns for a poor church, saying he 
would give me twenty new hymns in exchange. I 
sent the books and received the hymns, among which 
I found "A Song of Heaven and Homeland," which 
I soon set to music, and which I consider one of 
my best compositions. It was first published in 
The Ladies Home Journal. 

All Hail the Power of Jesus Name 

Words by E. Perronet Music by Oliver Holden, 1792 

"All hail the power of Jesus name! 
Let angels prostrate fall." 

A man in England, who had been a happy Chris 
tian, began gradually to lose his faith, and at last 
boldly avowed the infidelity that had for a long time 
been quietly slumbering within. To his wife, who 
still loved and clung to the Saviour, this was indeed 
a blow, and her heart was torn at the thought that 
one she tenderly loved, and with whom she had often 

319 



320 Sankey*s Story 

held sweet counsel, should now turn from the truth 
she held to be priceless, and overturn the faith he 
once sought to uphold. The husband was soon taken 
very sick, and it was evident to the anxious wife that 
the sickness was unto death. She pleaded with and 
for the dying one that he might again confess Christ, 
in whom he had once been so happy, but no relief 
came to her distressed soul. One day the dying man 
was heard to utter a faint cry, and his wife caught 
the words, " Bring, bring/ Thinking that he de 
sired a cooling drink, she brought him what she sup 
posed he wanted, but he waved his hand, and again 
uttered the words, " Bring, bring." The wife was 
at a loss to understand what could be the meaning, 
when he, with a final struggle, as if he had gathered 
all the remaining energy into one last effort, ex 
claimed : 

"Bring forth the royal diadem 
And crown him Lord of all." 

And he departed to join that company that wait 
that morning when the redeemed shall be gathered in. 



All the Way My Saviour Leads Me 

Words by Fanny J. Crosby Music by the Rer. Robert Lowry 

"All the way my Saviour leads me; 
What have I to ask beside?" 

Fanny Crosby had been the recipient of a very 
unexpected temporal blessing, and while seated in 
her quiet room, meditating on the goodness of God 
to her and all his ways, this hymn flashed into her 
mind. It was written out and given to Robert 
Lowry, who wrote the fine tune which has given it 
wings, and carried it into millions of homes and 
hearts. 



Of the Gospel Hymns 321 

Awake, My Soul 

Words by Joel Barlow Music by A. R. Rcinagle 

"Awake, my soul! to sound His praise, 
Awake, my harp! to sing." 

This is Joel Barlow s version of the io8th Psalm. 
In 1785, by the request of the General Association 
of Connecticut, he corrected and revised Watts ver 
sion of the Psalms, supplying such as had been omit 
ted by Watts and adapting it to American thought 
and requirement. 

Awake, My Soul, to Joyful Lays 

Words by Samuel Medley 

"Awake, my soul, to joyful lays, 
And sing thy great Redeemer s praise." 

This hymn with its fervent, joyful tone, its 
touching refrain and the peculiar old melody united 
to it, has been greatly esteemed in this country in 
days gone by. It first appeared in 1782, in Meyer s 
collection of hymns for use of Lady Huntingdon s 
church. Samuel Medley, the author of the hymn, 
was visiting at the house of a Mr. Phillips in London, 
and asked the daughter of his host to bring him 
some paper and ink. With these he retired to his 
room and presently came back with this hymn writ 
ten. Mr. Medley was pastor of a Baptist Church in 
Liverpool for many years. He was born in 1738 
and died 1799. 

Close to Thee 

Words by Fanny J. Crosby Music by S. J. Vail 

"Thou my everlasting portion, 
More than friend or life to me." 
This is another popular hymn, written by Fanny 
J. Crosby, and set to music by Silas Jones Vail, who 



322 Sankey s Story 

was born at Southold, Long Island, N. Y., October 6, 
1818. He was a hatter by trade, but wrote a large 
number of songs for Philip Phillips, who was the 
first to publish any of Vail s compositions, among 
which may be mentioned, " Gates Ajar," " Nothing 
But Leaves," and " Scatter Seeds of Kindness." He 
died in Brooklyn, N. Y., May 20, 1883. 

The late Silas J. Vail, having composed this 
tune, brought it to Fanny Crosby, and requested her 
to write words for it. As he was playing it for her 
on the piano, she said : " That refrain says : Close to 
Thee; Close to Thee. " Mr. Vail agreed that that 
was true, and it was agreed that it should be a hymn 
entitled " Close to Thee." 

Come, Ye Disconsolate 

Words by Thomas Moore Music by Samuel Webbe 

"Come ye disconsolate! where er ye languish, 
Come to the mercy-seat, fervently kneel." 

Thomas Moore, of Dublin, the friend of Lord 
Byron, wrote some thirty-two songs, published in 
1848, which have been united to popular airs of var 
ious nations. " Come, Ye Disconsolate " has minis 
tered to the soothing of many a troubled heart, and 
often guided the weary soul to the mercy seat, where 
alone the accusing conscience may lay its guilty bur 
den down and realize, "Earth has no sorrow that 
heaven cannot heal." 

Free from the Law 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by P. P. Bliss 

"Free from the law, oh, happy condition, 
Jesus hath bled, and there is remission." 
What shall I give my husband for a Christmas 
present?" asked Mrs. Bliss of a friend, just before 






Of the Gospel Hymns 323 

Christmas, 1871, and at the suggestion of this friend, 
she purchased and presented Mr. Bliss with a bound 
volume of a monthly English periodical called 
" Things New and Old." From reading in this book 
something in connection with Romans 8, and He 
brews 10, this glorious gospel song was suggested 
to him. 



Guide Me, O Thou Great Jehovah 

Words by W. Williams Music by Wm. L. Viner 

"Guide me, O Thou great Jehovah, 
Pilgrim through this barren land." 

Written by William Williams, the sweet singer, 
who was known as the " Watts of Wales." It was 
first published in Welsh in 1745. Later it appeared 
in English under the title, " A favorite hymn of Lady 
Huntingdon s young collegians." 

This hymn was one of the most popular in our 
collection, when Mr. Moody and I were holding 
meetings in Wales. 

Hear the Call 

Words by W. F. Sherwin Music by W. F. Sherwin 

"Lo ! the day of God is breaking; 
See the gleaming from afar!" 

Mr. Sherwin was of great assistance in our meet 
ings in Boston in 1876. Early in his life Mr. Sher 
win manifested decided musical abilities, but being 
a poor boy, he had to struggle hard to obtain the 
instruction he so much desired. However, at the 
age of fifteen he was the leader of a large chorus 
choir. At twenty-five he was well-known at New 
England musical conventions. He was brought up a 
Congregationalist, but while having charge of the 



324 Sankey*s Story 

music in a Baptist church in Albany, he adopted that 
denomination. He was an ardent Sunday-school 
worker, and had part in the preparation of many 
hymn and song books for use in Sunday-schools and 
in the temperance work. He was born in Buckland, 
Mass., March 14, 1826, and died at his home in Dor 
chester, Mass., April 14, 1888. 

Hold Thou My Hand 

Words by Grace J. Frances Music by Hubert P. Main 

"Hold Thou my hand: so weak I am and helpless, 
I dare not take one step without Thy aid." 

Written by Grace J. Frances, which is a nom de 
plume of Fanny Crosby. Hubert P. Main wrote the 
music. It became a great favorite of Mrs. C. H. 
Spurgeon, who asked permission to republish it in 
her collection of hymns. 

Holy, Holy, Holy, Lord God Almighty 

Words by Reginald Heber, D.D. Music by the Rev. John B. Dykes 

"Holy, holy, holy! Lord God Almighty! 
Early in the morning our song shall rise to Thee;" 

This majestic hymn was written by Bishop Heber, 
who was born in Cheshire, England, 1783, and edu 
cated at Oxford. He served in the church at Hodnet 
for about twenty years, when he was appointed Bishop 
of Calcutta, East India. He wrote fifty-seven hymns, 
which were published by his widow in 1842. Heber 
died 1826 in the prime of his life. 

The tune " Nicsea " was composed by Dr. John 
Bacchus Dykes for this hymn, and is one of the best 
of his compositions. Nicsea was the place in Asia 
Minor where the first Ecumenical Council was held 
in the year 325, and it was there that the doctrine of 



Of the Gospel Hymns 325 

the Holy Trinity was promulgated, declaring the eter 
nal sonship of Christ, and his equality with the father. 
Dr. Dykes was born at Kingston-upon-Hull, in 
1823; and was a graduate of Cambridge. He wrote 
many excellent tunes, and did much to elevate the 
congregational psalmody of England. He died 1876. 

I am Thine, O Lord 

Words by Fanny J. Crosby Music by W. H. Doane 

"I am Thine, O Lord, 
I have heard Thy voice." 

This popular and useful consecration hymn was 
written by Fanny Crosby and set to music by W. H. 
Doane, and has been largely adopted by Christian 
Endeavor societies throughout this country and 
Great Britain. 

Fanny Crosby was visiting Mr. W. H. Doane, 
in his home in Cincinnati, Ohio. They were talking 
together about the nearness of God, as the sun was 
setting and the evening shadows were gathering 
around them. The subject so impressed the well- 
known hymn-writer, that before retiring she had 
written the words to this hymn, which has become 
one of the most useful she has ever written. The 
music by Mr. Doane so well fitted the words that the 
hymn has become a special favorite wherever the 
Gospel Hymns are known. 

I Will Sing of My Redeemer 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by James McGranahan 

"I will sing of my Redeemer, 
And His wondrous love to me." 

This beautiful hymn was written by P. P. Bliss 
and set to music by James McGranahan, and is one 



LIBRARY 

KNOX COLLEGE 
TORONTO 



326 Sankey*s Story 

of his most famous compositions. When Mr. Bliss 
so sadly met his death in the railroad disaster at Ash- 
tabula, Ohio, December 29, 1876, Mr. McGranahan 
was selected to take his place as evangelistic singer 
in connection with Major Whittle, and much good 
was accomplished through their united efforts. He 
wrote much of the music in the Gospel Hymns, of 
which he was one of the joint compilers. 



I Will Sing the Wondrous Story 

Words by F. W. Rawley Music by Peter P. Bilhorn 

"I will sing the wondrous story, 
Of the Christ who died for me." 

The words of this hymn were written by F. H. 
Rawley, and the music by Peter Bilhorn, from whom 
I secured it in 1887 for use in Gospel Hymns and 
Sacred Songs and Solos. The hymn commenced in 
its original form, " Can t you sing the wondrous 
story," from which I changed it to "I will sing." 

It was greatly blessed in our meetings in Aber 
deen, Glasgow, and other places in Great Britain, 
many persons testifying to having been benefited by 
its use. 

"&gt; j &gt;7 * 

In the Cross of Christ I Glory 

Words by Sir John Bowring Music by Ithamar Conkey 

"In the cross of Christ I glory, 
Towering o er the wrecks of time." 

Sir John Bowring, a native of Exeter, England, 
is the author of this strengthening hymn. He was 
nominally a Unitarian, but in fact he was a man who 
lived and died possessed of a clear, strong evan- 



Of the Gospel Hymns 327 

gelical faith in the virtue of the blood of the atone 
ment. Before he was sixteen he had mastered five 
languages without the aid of a teacher. He was en 
gaged in the woolen trade with his father, but early 
took to literary pursuits, and distinguished himself 
therein. He was twice elected to Parliament. In 
1828 the University of Groningen conferred upon 
him the degree of IX. D. In 1845 he was appointed 
English consul at Canton, China, and he finally be 
came Commander-in-Chief and Vice Admiral of 
Hong Kong. He was knighted by the Queen in 1854. 
He died in 1872, with peace in his heart and in the 
hope of the resurrection of the just. On his tomb 
stone is inscribed, " In the Cross of Christ I Glory." 
Sir John Bowring was one of the most remark 
able men of his day. He was born 1792, his father 
being a manufacturer of woolen goods for China 
and other distant countries. When only six years 
of age Sir John had mastered six languages, and be 
fore long he knew no less than thirteen. At the age 
of forty-three he was elected to the Parliament, and 
after filling many positions of honor, both home and 
abroad, he was knighted in 1854. He wrote many 
excellent hymns, besides volumes of political, eco 
nomic and religious essays, which caused him to be 
come a member of nearly every learned society in 
Europe. He lived to be over eighty years of age, 
and died in peace and joyful hope of the resurrection. 
On his tombstone may be found the first line of this, 
his immortal hymn, 

"In the cross of Christ I glory." 

The tune " Rathbun," by Ithamar Conkey, of 
New York City, fits the words splendidly. Mr. Con- 
key was born 1815. He was a noted bass singer, and 
for a long time connected with the Calvary Church, 
New York. He died 1867. 



328 Sanketfs Story 

Jesus Saves 

Words by Priscilla J. Owens Music by Wm. J. Kirkpatrick 

"We have heard the joyful sound; 
Jesus saves! Jesus saves!" 

Mr. Kirkpatrick is a resident of Philadelphia, and 
was associated with John R. Sweeney in the publica 
tion of several hymn-books. He is the author of 
many popular hymns, " Jesus saves," and " Meekly 
wait and murmur not," perhaps being the best known 
of his compositions. Both of these hymns were ex 
tensively used in our meetings, and greatly blessed 
to many souls. 

Jewels 

Words by the Rev. W. O. Gushing Music by G. F. Root 

"When he cometh, when he cometh, 
To make up his jewels." 

This hymn was written by the Rev. W. O. Gush 
ing and set to music by G. F. Root, and is one of the 
most popular children s hymns in the world. He 
wrote many hymns for me, among the most popular 
of which may be mentioned, " Hiding in Thee " and 
" There ll be no Dark Valley." 

The Rev. William Orcott Gushing was born in 
Hingham, Mass., 1823, and was converted while yet a 
child. He entered the ministry, and continued therein 
for many years, until he partly lost the power of 
speech. This caused him to give up preaching, but 
the prayer which he made, " Lord still give me some 
thing to do for thee ! " was wonderfully answered, 
and he was permitted to write hymns for children, 
many of which have been blessed to tens of thou 
sands throughout the world, whom his voice as a 
preacher could never have reached. 

"Jewels" takes rank with "Come to the 



Of the Gospel Hymns 329 

Saviour " and " I am so glad that Jesus loves me," 
two of the most popular children s hymns in the 
world. The Rev. Mr. Gushing died 1902. 

A minister returning from Europe on an English 
steamer visited the steerage, and after some friendly 
talk, proposed a singing service if something could 
be started that "everybody " knew for there were 
hundreds of emigrants there from nearly every part 
of Europe. 

" It ll have to be an American tune, then," said 
the steerage-master ; " try His Jewels. " 

The minister struck out at once with the melody 
and words 

"When he cometh, when he cometh," 

and scores of the poor, half-fed multitude joined 
voices with him. Many probably recognized the 
music of the old glee, and some had heard the sweet 
air played in the church steeples at home. Other 
voices chimed in, male and female, catching the air 
and sometimes the words they were so easy and so 
many times repeated and the volume of song in 
creased, till the singing minister stood in the midst 
of an international concert, the most novel that he 
ever led. (Theron Brown s Story of the Hymns and 
Tunes.) 

George Frederick Root, Doctor of Music, the 
author of the tune, was born in Sheffield, Mass., 1820, 
and died 1895. 

Knocking, Knocking 

Words by Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe Music by George F. Root 

"Knocking, knocking, who is there? 
Waiting, waiting, oh, how fair!" 

This hymn was written by Mrs. H. B. Stowe, the 
well-known author of " Uncle Tom s Cabin." Mrs. 
Stowe wrote several hymns, but this is perhaps the 



33 Sankey*s Story 

most popular. The tune was written by George F. 
Root. 

More Love to Thee, O Christ 

Words by Mrs. Elizabeth Prentiss Music by W. H. Doane 

"More love to Thee, O Christ! 
More love to Thee." 

This favorite hymn was written by Mrs. Eliza 
beth Payson Prentiss, who was born in Portland, Me., 
1818, and in 1845 became the wife of Rev. George 
L. Prentiss, D. D., who afterward became Professor 
of Theology at the Union Seminary, New York City. 
The hymn was written in 1869, and first printed on 
a fly-sheet. It became a useful revival hymn in the 
years that followed. Mrs. Prentiss, who wrote many 
well-known poems, was an invalid the greater part 
of her life, and died in 1878. 

The music was composed by W. H. Doane. 



My Mother s Prayer 

Words by T. C. O Kane Music by T. C. O Kane 

"As I wandered round the homestead, 
Many a dear familiar spot." 

" My Mother s Prayer " was sung at nearly all 
our temperance meetings, both in England and 
America, and many souls were led to Christ by the 
tender memories awakened by this hymn. It was 
first published by Philip Phillips, in his book, " Dew 
Drops." A minister writes the following: 

" What our mothers sang to us when they put 
us to sleep is singing yet. We may have forgotten 
the words; but they went into the fiber of our soul, 
and will forever be a part of it. It is not so much 
what you formally teach your children as what you 



Of the Gospel Hymns 331 

sing to them. A hymn has wings and can fly every 
whither. One hundred and fifty years after you are 
dead, and Old Mortality has worn out his chisel in 
re-cutting your name on the tombstone, your great 
grandchildren will be singing the song which this 
afternoon you sing to your little ones gathered about 
your knee. There is a place in Switzerland where, 
if you distinctly utter your voice, there come back 
ten or fifteen echoes, and every Christian song sung 
by a mother in the ear of her child shall have ten 
thousand echoes coming back from all the gates of 
heaven. Oh, if mothers only knew the power of this 
sacred spell, how much oftener the little ones would 
be gathered, and all our homes would chime with the 
songs of Jesus ! " 

My Prayer 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by P. P. Bliss 

"More holiness give me. 
More strivings within." 

This hymn, perhaps one of the most beautiful of 
all his compositions, was written by Mr. Bliss, 1873, 
after he had given up his musical convention work 
entirely and entered fully upon his lifework for the 
Master. It seems that it was only after he had given 
up everything and committed himself and all his gifts 
to the Lord s service, that he was enabled to write 
such a hymn as this. 

Bliss called the hymn " My Prayer," but thou 
sands in every Christian land have made it their 
prayer as well, and it will continue to voice a heart- 
felt want of millions in years to come. 

The hymn was a special favorite with Mr. 
Moody, and was often quoted by him as a hymn that 
would live in the church of God, while the children 
of God continue to call upon his name in prayer. 

Mr. Bliss was at the time of his death a member 



33 2 Sankey s Story 

of the First Congregational Church of Chicago. The 
pastor, the Rev. Dr. E. P. Goodwin, in an address on 
the death of Mr. and Mrs. Bliss, referred to the sing 
ing of this hymn as follows : " On one of the last occa 
sions when he was with us, on a flying visit to our 
city, made during his work as an evangelist, he came 
in late one evening and sat at the rear of the church. 
Espying him, I called him forward to sing the hymn, 
My Prayer. He struck the keys on the piano, 
stooped forward, and, reading the words in the latter 
part of the first verse, More joy in his service/ said 
1 1 do not think I can sing that as a prayer any more ; 
it seems to me that I have as much joy in serving the 
blessed Master as it is possible for me to bear. " 

Near the Cross 

Words by Fanny J. Crosby Music by W. H. Doane 

"Jesus, keep me near the Cross, 
There a precious fountain." 

Like many other hymns by this author, the words 
were written to a tune already composed by Mr. 
Doane, and at his request. The words and tune are 
remarkably well adapted to each other, and the hymn 
will continue to be used long after many more pre 
tentious ones have been forgotten. 

None of Self and All of Thee 

Words by the Rev. Theo. Monod Music by James McGranahan 

"Oh, the bitter pain and sorrow 
That a time could ever be." 

The words of this excellent hymn were written 
by the Rev. Theodore Monod, of Paris, in whose 
church we held meetings. Mr. Monod acted as inter 
preter for Mr. Moody. These meetings were well 



Of the Gospel Hymns 333 

attended, and many professed conversion. As we left 
Paris Mr. Moody remarked that if he was a young 
man again he would give his life to France. 

Nothing but the Blood of Jesus 

Words by the Rev. Robert Lowry Music by the Rev. Robert Lowry 

"What can wash away my stain? 

Nothing but the blood of Jesus." 

This very simple hymn was first introduced at a 
camp meeting in Ocean Grove, N. J., where it imme 
diately took possession of the people. It has been 
found very useful in inquiry and prayer-meetings. 

O Child of God 

Words by Fanny J. Crosby Music by Ira D. Sankey 

"O child of God, wait patiently 

When dark thy path may be." 

During the summer of 1886, Fanny Crosby was 
my guest at Northfield. One day I composed this 
tune, and said to her : 

" Why not write a poem for this tune to-night ? " 
The spirit of poetry did not seem to be upon her, and 
she answered : 

" No, I cannot do it at present." The following 
day we went for a drive, and expected her to go with 
us, but to our astonishment, she asked to be excused, 
saying that she had something she wished to do. 
After we had gone, a number of students came in 
and had a pleasant chat with Fanny Crosby, and after 
they had gone she sat down at the piano and played 
my tune over, and the words of the hymn came to 
her as they now stand. Upon our return she hastened 
to meet us, and recited the verses to me. Fanny 
Crosby spent eight summers with us at Northfield, 
and on a recent visit here she told me that some of 
her happiest days were those at Northfield, and, re- 



334 Sankey*s Story 

ferring to this hymn, she said she knew that she had 
been permitted to do a little good there. She also 
told me that she knew that many a poor soul had 
been comforted by this simple hymn. 

O God, Our Help 

Words by Isaac Watts Music by H. W. Greatorex 

"O God, our help in ages past, 
Our hope for years to come." 

This is Watts version of the Qoth Psalm. Its 
use has been universal, and is one of his best com 
positions. It has been translated into many lan 
guages. As written by Watts it began, " Our God." 
This was changed by John Wesley to " O God, our 
help," etc. 

Only a Beam of Sunshine 

Words by Fanny J. Crosby Music by John R. Sweney 

"Only a beam of sunshine, but oh, it was warm and bright; 
The heart of a weary trav ler was cheered by its welcome 
sight" 

Fanny Crosby says : " It was a cold, rainy day, 
and everything had gone wrong with me during the 
morning. I realized that the fault was mine; but 
that did not help the matter. About noon the sky 
began to clear; and a friend, standing near me said, 
" There is only a beam of sunshine, but oh, it is warm 
and bright;" and on the impulse of the moment I 
wrote the hymn." 

Only Remembered by What We Have Done 

Words by Horatius Bonar Music by Ira D. Sankey 

"Fading away like the stars of the morning, 
Losing their light in the glorious sun." 

Dr. Horatius Bonar, of Edinburgh, wrote the 
words of this hymn, which I set to music in 1891, I 



Of the Gospel Hymns 335 

sang it as a solo in the Tabernacle in London at the 
funeral of my friend, C. H. Spurgeon, the great Lon 
don preacher. 

Precious Promise God Hath Given 

Words by Nathaniel Niles Music by P. P. Bliss 

"Precious promise God hath given 
To the weary passer by." 

This well-known hymn was written by Mr. 
Nathaniel Niles, a resident of Morristown, N. J., and, 
at that time a lawyer in New York City. He was 
born at South Kingston, R. L, 1835. The verses 
were composed on the margin of a newspaper in the 
railway car one morning while on his way to business. 
The tune was written by P. P. Bliss, and published 
in his Gospel Songs in 1874, and later furnished by 
him for Gospel Hymns. I soon afterward published 
it in Sacred Songs and Solos, in England, where it 
became one of the most useful hymns in connection 
with our meetings. Mr. Moody often requested it to 
be sung in connection with his lectures on "The Pre 
cious Promises." 

Saviour, Like a Shepherd Lead Us 

Words by Dorothy A. Thrupp Music by Wm. B. Bradbury 

"Saviour, like a shepherd lead us, 
Much we need Thy tend rest care." 

This beautiful little hymn is supposed to have 
been written by Miss Dorothy A. Thrupp, and first 
published in Miss Thrupp s Hymns for the Young, 
in 1836. The music by which it is now so well known, 
both in America and Great Britain, was written by 
William Bradbury. It was much used in our meetings 
as a congregational hymn in connection with the sub 
ject of the Good Shepherd. 



336 Sankey s Story 

Saviour ! Visit Thy Plantation 

Words by the Rev. John Newton Music (Rathbun) by Ithamar Conkey 
"Saviour! visit Thy plantation; 
Grant us, Lord, a gracious rain." 

In his youth Mr. Newton was employed in plant 
ing lime and lemon trees on a plantation in Africa, 
One day his master sneeringly said to him : " Who 
knows but by the time these trees grow up and bear, 
you may go home to England, obtain the command 
of a ship, and return to reap the fruit of your 
labors ? " John Newton really did return, in com 
mand of a ship, and with some hope of heaven in his 
heart, and saw the trees he had planted grown up 
and bearing fruit. 

At the age of eleven he went to sea with his 
father. He drifted away from his pious mother s 
teachings and grew into an abandoned and Godless 
sailor. He was flogged as a deserter from the navy, 
and for fifteen months he lived, half -starved and ill- 
treated, on the above mentioned plantation, under a 
slave-dealer. His Christian belief matured while in 
command of a slave-ship. He soon became an ardent 
worker for Christ. In 1805, when no longer able to 
read his text, his reply when pressed to discontinue 
preaching, was : " What, shall the old African blas 
phemer stop while he can speak?" He was a life 
long friend of the great hymn-writer, William Cow- 
per, and himself wrote a large number of hymns. 

" Saviour, Visit Thy Plantation " is usually sung 
to the tune " Rathbun," written by Ithamar Conkey. 

Sun of My Soul 

Words by John Keble Music by Peter Ritter, 1798 

"Sun of my soul, Thou Saviour dear, 
It is not night if Thou be near." 

This is taken from Mr. John Keble s evening 



Of the Gospel Hymns 337 

hymn, which originally consisted of fourteen verses 
and was published in " The Christian Year " in 1827. 
It was based upon the words found in Luke 24: 29, 
" Abide with us ; for it is toward evening and the day 
is far spent." Keble was born in Gloucestershire, 
1792, and died in 1866. 

The old English tune to which the hymn is sung 
was written in 1798. 

Sweet Hour of Prayer 

Words by the Rev. W. W. Walford Music by Wm. B. Bradbury 

"Sweet hour of prayer, sweet hour of prayer! 
That calls me from a world of care." 

This most useful hymn was set to music by Wil 
liam Batchelder Bradbury. He was born in October 
6, 1816, and died in New Jersey, January 7, 1868. He 
published a large number of Sunday-school hymn- 
books, which had a very large circulation in the 
United States. 

When quite a young man, I attended a musical 
convention conducted by Mr. Bradbury in the State 
of Ohio, and there received my first impressions as 
to the power of sacred song. 

Take Time to be Holy 

Words by W. D. Longstaff Music by Geo. C. Stebbins 

"Take time to be holy, 
Speak oft with thy Lord." 

Mr. Longstaff, of Sunderland, England, wrote 
this hymn after hearing a sermon at New Brighton 
on " Be ye holy as I am holy." "Take Time to be 
Holy " was first published in Gospel Hymns and 
Sacred Songs and Solos, in 1891. It has been much 
used in holiness-meetings, both in this country and 
Great Britain. Mr. Longstaff was the treasurer of 



Sankey s Story 

Bethesda Chapel, in Sunderland, when we held our 
first meetings in that town, and was the first one to 
write anything in relation to our meetings in Great 
Britain. 

Ten Thousand Times Ten Thousand 

Words by Henry Alford, D.D. Music by Ira D. Sankey 

"Ten thousand times ten thousand, in sparkling raiment 

bright, 

The armies of the ransomed saints, throng up the steeps of 
light." 

This is considered the best of Dean Alford s 
hymns. It was written in 1866 and published in the 
" Year of Praise " in 1867. Beside the open grave 
of the author, January 17, 1871, the hymn was sung 
with intense emotion by his sorrowing friends. 

The Anchored Soul 

Words by the Rev. W. O. Gushing Music by the Rev. Robert Lowry 

The words of this hymn were written by the Rev. 
W. O. Gushing, and the music by the Rev. Robert 
Lowry. It has become very popular among sailors 
and seafaring men. 

The Eye of Faith 

Words by the Rev. J. J. Maxfield Music by W. A. Ogden 

"I do not ask for earthly store 
Beyond a day s supply." 

This was a favorite hymn of Mr. Moody during 
our last campaign in Scotland. As we went from 
place to place the choirs which had sung at our meet 
ings would often gather at the stations and sing this 
and other hymns at our parting. 

The words were written by Dr. J. J. Maxfield, 
and the music of W. A. Ogden. 



Of the Gospel Hymns 339 

The Half Was Never Told 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by P. P. Bliss 

"Repeat the story o er and o er, 
Of grace, so full and free." 

This was suggested to Mr. Bliss by his reading 
notes, written by his friend and sometime fellow- 
laborer in gospel work, James M. Brookes, of St. 
Louis, upon the Queen of Sheba s visit to King Solo 
mon. This was one of my most popular solos. 

The Handwriting on the Wall 

Words and Music by Knowles Shaw Arr. by Ira D. Sankey 

"At the feast of Belshazzar and a thousand of his lords, 
While they drank from golden vessels, as the Book of Truth 
records." 

This hymn was written by Knowles Shaw on the 
experience of King Belshazzar of Babylon. I ar 
ranged it to music from a tune written by the author 
of the words, and frequently sang it as a solo. 

The Light of the World is Jesus 

Words by P. P. Bliss Music by P. P. Bliss 

"The whole world was lost in the darkness of sin, 
The light of the world is Jesus." 

Both the words and music of this hymn were 
written by P. P. Bliss in the summer of 1875, at his 
home in Chicago. It came to him altogether, words 
and music, one morning while passing through the 
hall to his room, and was at once written down. 

The Lily of the Valley 

Words by C. W. Fry Arr. by Ira D. Sankey 

"I ve found a friend in Jesus, 
He s everything to me." 

A young Jewess had been converted in London 



34O Sankey s Story 

through her German governess. She had been for 
bidden to read the New Testament by her parents, 
who were ardent Jews; but while reading Isaiah 53 
she found the Messiah, and was soon expelled from 
her home. She then went to Germany, and herself 
acted as governess for several years. When she 
heard of Mr. Moody s work at Northfield, she de 
cided to go there. Having been entertained in Lon 
don for a few weeks by Mr. Denny, a prominent lay 
man, this gentleman asked me one day in London, as 
I was about to sail for America, if I would see her 
safely across the ocean, which I promised to do. In 
Louisville she first saw Mr. Moody. On leaving 
Louisville she went to New York and applied to the 
Presbyterian Board of Foreign Missions for appoint 
ment as a foreign missionary. There being some 
delay in accepting her application, she decided to go 
with the Rev. Hudson Taylor, whom she had met at 
Northfield. On arriving in China she adopted the 
garb of the Chinese women, and became a faithful 
and useful worker. After two years she was mar 
ried to a missionary from Scotland. They are still 
engaged in missionary work in Northern China. 



" Auntie, please sing Lily of the Valley/ said 
a little girl of six, as she stood by the piano in com 
pany with a number of other children on a Sunday 
evening. In a few minutes all present were singing: 

"I ve found a friend in Jesus, He s everything to me; 
He s the fairest of ten thousand to my soul;" 

and the little one, who knew only the chorus, joined 
in heartily with the rest, her clear voice ringing out 
sweetly amid those of the older children. When her 
auntie would play on the piano she would always 
run to her and beg for one or another of her favorite 



Of the Gospel Hymns 341 

hymns, but her favorite was, "Lily of the Valley," 
and she never tired of hearing it. The following 
winter was a very severe one, and this little girl was 
stricken with diphtheria. Nothing would soothe her 
but to have her mother sing to her. Over and over 
again the mother would sing all the songs she knew, 
but specially " The Lily of the Valley." One morn 
ing, soon after dawn, the child seemed to be a little 
brighter, and tried to raise her hand, as though she 
wished to speak. Tenderly the mother asked what 
she wanted and the girl whispered, " Sing The Lily 
of the Valley once more." With tears streaming 
down her cheeks the mother attempted to sing the 
first verse and the chorus. A smile broke over the 
little one s face, and as her head dropped back on 
the pillow her spirit went out into the bosom of Him, 
who is indeed the " Lily of the Valley and the fairest 
of ten thousand." Bitter indeed were their tears 
when they realized that their darling was no more ; 
but their sorrow was lightened by the knowledge that 
she was free from pain, and they will always treasure 
with her memory the hymn she loved so well. 



Mr. Fry is one of the leaders of the Salvation 
Army in London. In addition to writing the words, 
he also set the hymn to music, and later arranged it 
to slower time and published it in Gospel Hymns. 

The Morning Land 

Words by Ellen K. Bradford Music by E. H. Phelps(Arr. by Ira D. Sankey) 
" Some day, we say, and turn our eyes 
Toward the fair hills of Paradise." 

This hymn was written by the author of the 
music of "Over the Line," and first published in 
sheet form in England, where I found it, and by per- 



342 Sanketfs Story 

mission of the publishers arranged it for use in the 
" Sacred Songs and Solos " and " Gospel Hymns." 
It has been sung as a duet at funerals all over the 
world. 

The Wondrous Cross 

Words by Isaac Watts, Arr. Music by ira D. Sankey 

"When I survey the wondrous cross 
On which the Prince of Glory died." 

This beautiful hymn was founded on Paul s word 
in Gal. 6 : 14, " God forbid that I should glory, save 
in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ." 

The author occupies one of the highest positions 
among all the hymn writers who ever lived. Wesley 
and Watts stand on the highest pedestal of fame to 
gether. Watts was the son of a schoolmaster, and 
was born at Southampton, 1674. He belonged to a 
family of nonconformists, who were very pious and 
godly people. He was educated by a clergyman in 
his home city, and later by an Independent minister 
in London. He became minister to an Independent 
congregation in London, where he continued to 
preach for fourteen years. In the year 1712 he paid 
a visit to some friends in Hertfordshire, for the pur 
pose of regaining his health, which, on account of 
excessive study, had suffered. While here Sir 
Thomas and Lady Abney became so interested in him 
and took such a liking to him that they insisted upon 
his staying with them in their beautiful home. He 
accepted their kind offer, and for thirty-six years he 
lived in their house, being a constant source of joy 
and blessing to his benefactors. It was here he wrote 
many of the most useful and popular hymns now 
used by the Christian churches throughout the world. 
He died 1748. Just before passing away he said: 
" If God has no more service for me to do through 



Of the Gospel Hymns 343 

grace, I am ready; it is a great mercy to me that I 
have no manner of fear or dread of death. I could, 
if God please, lay my head back and die without alarm 
this afternoon or night. My chief supports are from 
my view of eternal things, and my sins are pardoned 
through the blood of Jesus Christ." In this happy 
frame of mind the great hymnist entered into his last 
rest. 

At least a score of different melodies have been 
written to the words, but Lowell Mason s " Ham 
burg " is no doubt the most popular. 

Till He Come 

Words by the Rev. E. H. Bickersteth Music by Dr. Lowell Mason 

" Till He come ! oh, let the word 
Linger on the trembling chords." 

The author, the Rev. E. H. Bickersteth, says this 
hymn was written to present one aspect of the Lord s 
Supper which is passed over in many hymnals, " Ye 
do show forth the Lord s death till He come." 

Tis Midnight 

Words by Wm. B. Tappan Music by Virgil C. Taylor 

" Tis midnight; and on Olive s brow 
The star is dimm d that lately shone." 

The author of the words of this hymn, William 
Bingham Tappan, was born at Beverly, Mass., Octo 
ber 29, 1794. He was a Congregational minister 
and was engaged for many years in the service of 
the American Sunday-school Union. The hymn was 
first published in the author s " Gems of Sacred 
Poetry," in 1822, under the title, " Gethsemane." 
Mr. Tappan died in his native state in 1849. 

The music to which the hymn is usually sung 
was written by Virgil C. Taylor. 



344 Sankey^s Story 

We Shall Meet By and By 

Words by the Rev. J. Atkinson Music by Hubert P. Main 

"We shall meet beyond the river, by and by, by and by; 
And the darkness shall be over, by and by, by and by/ 

John Atkinson, D. D., a Methodist minister, 
wrote this hymn on the death of his mother, in 1867. 
This is another instance of a hymn being written out 
of a deep and special heart-felt experience, and like 
gold, the best comes from the greatest depth. 

We Shall Sleep, but Not Forever 

Words by Mrs. M. A. Kidder Music by S. J. Vail 

"We shall sleep, but not forever, 
There will be a glorious dawn." 

Mrs. Kidder is believed to be the author of 
about one thousand hymns, some of which have be 
come very popular. I set a number of her pieces to 
music. This hymn and, " Is my name written there ? " 
are perhaps her most widely known compositions. 
She died in Chelsea, Mass., November 25, 1905, in 
her eighty-sixth year. 

While the Days are Going By 

Words by George Cooper Music by Ira D. Sankey 

"There are lonely hearts to cherish, 
While the days are going by." 

This, one of the most popular hymns to which I 
have set music, was written by George Cooper. I 
found it as a poem in a periodical in 1881, and imme 
diately wrote the chorus and composed the tune. It 
has been much used and greatly blessed in Gospel 
meetings. 



Of the Gospel Hymns 345 

Work, for the Night is Coming 

Words by A. L. Walker Music by Dr. Lowell Mason 

Work, for the night is coming, 
Work through the morning hours." 

This splendid work-hymn was written by Anna 
L. Walker, a resident of Canada, and first published 
in her " Poems/ in 1868. It was suggested to her 
by the words of Jesus : " The night cometh, when no 
man can work." The music was written by Dr. 
Lowell Mason. It was often used in our meetings 
both in Great Britain and America. 



INDEX OF AUTHORS 



INDEX OF AUTHORS 



Adams, Sarah F 200 

Akerman, L. E 206 

Alexander, Cecil F 283 

Alford, Henry 338 

Atchinson, J. B 189, 203 

Atkinson, J 344 

B. 

Bachelor, Mary A 142 

Bailey, Mrs. Urania Locke 266 

Baker, Henry W 115 

Baker, Miss M. A. 220 

Baring-Gould, S 214 

Barlow, Joel 321 

Baxter, Mrs. Lydia 262 

Bennett, S. Fillmore 249 

Bickersteth, E. H 343 

Bilhorn, Peter P 251, 326 

Black, J. M 302 

Bliss, P. P., 112, 124, 134, 142, 145, 146, 147, 150, 160, 168, 

176, 188, 192, 222, 257, 285, 293, 298, 301, 306, 308, 309, 

322, 325, 331, 335, 339. 

Bonar, Horatius 294, 312, 334 

Bowring, Sir John 326 

Bradbury, William B 116, 141, 147, 179, 186, 280, 335 

Bradford, Ellen K. 216, 341 

Brainard, Mary G 147 

Brown, Mary 163 

Buell, Hattie E 258 

C. 

Callahan, Jeremiah J 107 

Campbell, Emma 180 

Carey, Henry 195 

Carey, Phoebe 211 

C. C 114 

349 



350 Index of "Authors 

Charlesworth, V. J 106 

Clephane, Elizabeth C 260, 268 

Cluff, S. O Maley 158 

Codner, Mrs. Elizabeth 141 

Conkey, Ithamar 326, 336 

Converse, Charles C 295 

Cooper, George 344 

Cornelius, Maxwell N 244 

Cousin, Mrs. A. R 247 

Cowper, William 282 

Crosby, Fanny J., 122, 134, 208, 212, 218, 223, 229, 235, 238, 

289, 320, 325, 332, 333- 
Gushing, W. 121, 142, 149, 202, 226, 284, 292, 328, 338 

D. 

Demarest, Mary Lee 193 

Doane, W. H., 126, 212, 218, 223, 229, 238, 256, 289, 325, 
330, 332. 

Doudney, Sarah 259 

Duffield, George 247 

Dykes, John B 187, 324 



E. 

Edmeston, J 139 

Edson, Lewis 115 

Elliott, Charlotte 186 

Englebrecht, J. C 281 

Excell, E. 189 



F. 

Fawcett, John 123 

Frances, Grace J 324 

Frank, Wilhelm 136 

Fischer, W. G 164, 306 

Fry, C. W 339 

G. 

Gates, Ellen M. H 138, 156 

Gilmore, Joseph H 147 

Gordon, A. J 198 

Goreh, Ellen Lakshmi 166 



Index of Authors 351 

Gould, J. E. 185 

Grannis, S. M 148 

Grape, John T 109 

Greatorex, H. W 334 

H. 

Hall, Mrs. Elvina M 109 

Halls, R. G 208 

Hamilton, Eliza H 252 

Hammond, E. P 241 

Hankey, Miss Kate 164, 256 

Hanna, Mrs. lone T 193 

Harmer, S. Y 225 

Hartsough, Lewis 161 

Hastings, Horace L 240 

Hastings, Dr. Thomas 227 

Havergal, Frances R 255 

Hawks, Annie S 165 

Hearn, Marianne 293 

Heber, R 190 

Herbert, Annie 301 

Holden, Oliver . 207, 319 

Hopper, Edward 185 

Hudson, R. E 117 

J. 
Johnson, Mrs. James G 125 

K. 

Keble, John 336 

Keith, G 157 

Ken, Thomas 136 

Kidder, Mrs. M. A 344 

Kirkpatrick, William J 328 

Knapp, Mrs. Joseph F 122 

L. 

Lowry, Robert, 118, 142, 165, 202, 210, 243, 266, 303, 320, 333, 
338. 

Luke, Mrs. Jemima 281 

Luther, C. C 192 



LIBRARY 
KNOX COLLEGE 

TORONTO 



35 2 Index of Authors 

Luther, Martin ioq 

Lyte, H. F I0 



M. 

McDonald, William 225 

McGranahan, James.. 114, 125, 131, 240, 244, 257, 292, 325, 332 

Mackay, Mrs. Margaret 116 

Main, Hubert P 132, 3/1/1 

March, Daniel 148 

Marsh, Simeon B 172 

Mason, Lowell 190, 196, 200, 282, 288, 345 

Maxfield, J. J 338 

Medley, Samuel 321 

Mills, Mrs. Elizabeth . 297 

Monk, William H 108 

Monod, Theo 332 

Moody, May Whittle 190 

Moore, Thomas 322 

Mote, Edward , 280 



N. 

Nageli, H. G 123 

Neale, J. M 115 

Needham, George C 279 

Nelson, David 277 

Newman, John H 187 

Newton, John 336 

Nicholson, James 306 

Niles, Nathaniel 335 

Norton, Nathaniel 130 



O. 

Oakley, Emily S 298 

Ogden, W. A 338 

O Kane, T. C - 209, 330 

Owens, Priscilla J 328 



P. 

Palmer, H. R 127, 220, 313 

Palmer, Ray 196 



Index of Authors 353 

Pennefather, Mrs 204 

Perkins, T. E 134, 180 

Perronet, E 319 

Phelps, E. H 216, 341 

Phelps, S. D 243 

Phillips, Philip 156, 208, 211 

Portogallo, M 157 

Prentiss, Mrs. Elizabeth 330 

Presbrey, O. F 203 

Proctor, James 167 

R. 

Rankin, J. E 144 

Rawley, F. W 326 

Reed, Eliza 307 

Reinagle, A. R 321 

Rexford, Eben 319 

Rice, Elihu S 240 

Ritter, Peter 336 

Robinson, R 128 

Root, George F 129, 226, 277, 328, 329 

Rounsef ell, Carrie E 163 

S. 

Sammis, J. H 290 

Sankey, Ira D., 106, 149, 158, 167, 171, 204, 215, 247, 252, 

255, 259, 260, 265, 267, 268, 279, 284, 291, 292, 294, 301, 

312, 319, 333, 334, 338, 339, 342, 344- 

Scriven, Joseph 295 

Shaw, Knowles 339 

Sherwin, William F. 121, 323 

Sleeper, W. T 310 

Small, J. G 170 

Smith, Mrs. Albert 239 

Smith, S. F 195, 288 

Spafford, H. G 168 

Stebbins, George C, 130, 139, 166, 170, 192, 235, 241, 283, 

297, 3io, 337. 

Stennett, Samuel 209 

Stevenson, J 134 

Stites, E. P 121, 291 

Stockton, J. H 212 

Stowe, Mrs. Harriet Beecher 329 

Sullivan, A. S 214 



354 Index of Authors 

Sumner, John B 258 

Sweney, John R 121, 334 



T. 



Taylor, Georgiana M 208 

Taylor, Virgil C 343 

Thrupp, Dorothy A , . 335 

Tomer, W. G 144 

Toplady, A. M 227 

Towner, D. D 290 

U. 
Ufford, E. S 286 

V. 
Vail, Silas J 206, 239, 262, 321, 344 

W. 

Walford, W. W 337 

Walker, A. L 345 

Walker, Mary J. 171 

Warner, Anna B , 179, 210 

Watts, Isaac 117, 342 

Webb, G. J 247 

Webbe, Samuel 322 

Webster, Joseph P 249 

Wesley, Charles 115, 134, 172, 207 

Whittle, D. W 125, 131, 190 

Williams, W 323 

Witter, W. E 127 

Woodbury, I. B 107, 149 

Wyeth, John 128 

Y. 
Yates, John H. 265, 267 



INDEX OF HYMNS 



INDEX OF HYMNS 

Titles in SMALL CAPITALS. First lines in Roman. 



A MIGHTY FORTRESS 105 

A ruler once came to Jesus by night 310 

A SHELTER IN THE TIME OF STORM 106 

A SINNER FORGIVEN 107 

A SONG OF HEAVEN AND HOMELAND 319 

ABIDE WITH ME 108 

Alas ! and did my Saviour bleed ? 117 

All Hail the Power of Jesus Name 319 

ALL TO CHRIST I OWE i9 

ALL THE WAY MY SAVIOUR LEADS ME 320 

ALMOST PERSUADED 112 

ARE You COMING HOME TO-NIGHT? 114 

ARISE, MY SOUL, ARISE IJ 5 

ART THOU WEARY ? "5 

ASLEEP IN JESUS ] 

AT THE CROSS H7 

AWAKE, MY SOUL 321 

Awake, My Soul, to Joyful Lays 321 

B. 

BEAUTIFUL RIVER 118 

BEAUTIFUL VALLEY OF EDEN 121 

Beneath the Cross of Jesus I fain would take my stand.. 260 

BEULAH LAND 121 

BLEST BE THE TIE THAT BINDS 123 

BLESSED ASSURANCE 122 

Brightly beams our Father s mercy 188 

Brother, art thou worn and weary , , t , , , , 131 

C. 

CALLING Now 124 

CLOSE TO THEE 321 

COME , 125 

357 



358 Index of Hymns 

COME BELIEVING 125 

Come, every soul by sin oppressed 212 

COME, GREAT DELIVERER, COME 126 

COME, SINNER, COME 127 

COME, THOU FOUNT 128 

COME TO THE SAVIOUR 129 

COME UNTO ME 130 

COME UNTO ME, AND REST 131 

COME, YE DISCONSOLATE 322 

CONSECRATION , , 132 

D. 

DARE TO BE A DANIEL 134 

DARK is THE NIGHT 134 

DEPTH OF MERCY 134 

Do you see the Hebrew captive kneeling 308 

Down in the valley with my Saviour I would go . 142 

Down life s dark vale we wander 301 

DOXOLOGY 136 

Dying with Jesus, by death reckoned mine *. 190 

E. 

ETERNITY 138 

EVEN ME 141 

EVENING PRAYER 139 

F. 

FOLLOW ON 142 

FREE FROM THE LAW 322 

From Greenland s icy mountains 196 

From the riven Rock there floweth 279 



G. 

Go BURY THY SORROW 142 

GOD BE WITH You \ . . . 144 

Guide Me, O Thou Great Jehovah [323 



H. 
HALLELUJAH, TIS DONE . 145 



Index of Hymns 359 

HALLELUJAH, WHAT A SAVIOUR 146 

Hark ! the voice of Jesus crying 148 

Have you on the Lord believed ? 192 

HEAR THE CALL 323 

HE KNOWS A , . A 147 

HE LEADETH ME 147 

HERE AM I, SEND ME 148 

HIDING IN THEE 149 

Ho ! my comrades, see the signal 150 

Ho ! REAPERS OF LIFE S HARVEST 149 

HOLD THE FORT 150 

HOLD THOU MY HAND 324 

Holy, Holy, Holy, Lord God Almighty 324 

HOME OF THE SOUL 156 

How FIRM A FOUNDATION 157 



I. 

I am far frae my hame, an I m weary aften-whiles .... 193 

I AM PRAYING FOR You 158 

I am so glad that our Father in heaven 176 

I am Thine, O Lord _. 325 

feel like singing all the time 241 

GAVE MY LIFE FOR THEE 160 

have a Saviour, He s pleading in glory 158 

have read of a beautiful city 203 

hear the Saviour say 109 

HEAR THY WELCOME VOICE 161 

know not the hour when my Lord will come 257 

I know not what awaits me 147 

I LOVE TO TELL THE STORY 164 

I NEED THEE EVERY HOUR 165 

I think when I read that sweet story of old 281 

I will sing the wondrous story 326 

I will sing of my Redeemer 325 

I will sing you a song of that beautiful land 156 

I LL Go WHERE THOU WOULDST I SHOULD Go 163 

In the Christian s home in glory 225 

IN THE CROSS OF CHRIST I GLORY 326 

In the land of strangers 294 

IN THE SECRET OF His PRESENCE 166 

IT Is FINISHED \ 167 

IT Is WELL WITH MY SOUL 168 

It may not be on the mountain s height 163 

I VE FOUND A FRIEND 170 

I ve reached the land of corn and wine . . 121 



360 Index of Hymns 



JESUS, I WILL TRUST THEE 171 

JESUS, LOVER OF MY SOUL 172 

JESUS LOVES EVEN ME 176 

JESUS LOVES ME 179 

Jesus, my Lord, to Thee I cry 252 

JESUS OF NAZARETH PASSETH BY 180 

JESUS SAVES 328 

JESUS, SAVIOUR, PILOT ME ! 185 

JEWELS 328 

JUST AS I AM 186 

K 

Knocking, Knocking 329 



LEAD, KINDLY LIGHT 187 

LET THE LOWER LIGHTS BE BURNING 188 

LET THE SAVIOUR IN 189 

Let us gather up the sunbeams 239 

Light in the darkness, sailor, day is at hand 222 

Lord, I hear of showers of blessing 141 

Lord Jesus, I long to be perfectly whole 306 

If. 

"Man of Sorrows," what a name ! 146 

Master, the tempest is raging 220 

MISSIONARY HYMN 190 

MOMENT BY MOMENT 190 

MORE LOVE TO THEE, O CHRIST 330 

MORE TO FOLLOW 192 

MUST I Go, AND EMPTY-HANDED 192 

MY AIN COUNTRIE 193 

MY COUNTRY, Tis OF THEE 195 

My days are gliding swiftly by 277 

MY FAITH LOOKS UP TO THEE 106 

My Father is rich in houses and lands 258 

My hope is built on nothing less 280 

MY JESUS. I LOVE THEE 198 

MY MOTHER S PRAYER 33O 

MY PRAYER 331 



Index of Hymns 361 

N. 

NEAR THE CROSS 332 

NEARER, MY GOD, TO THEE V 200 

No HOPE IN JESUS 202 

NOT HALF HAS EVER BEEN TOLD 203 

Not now, but in the coming years 244 

Nor Now, MY CHILD 204 

NOTHING BUT LEAVES 206 

Nothing but the blood of Jesus 333 

Nothing, either great or small 167 

None of self and all of Thee 332 

O. 

O Christ, what burdens bowed Thy head 247 

O CHILD OF GOD 333 

O GOD, OUR HELP 334 

O FOR A THOUSAND TONGUES TO SING 207 

O hear my cry, be gracious now to me 126 

O safe to the Rock that is higher than I 149 

O what a Saviour that He died for me 292 

O word of words the sweetest 125 

Oh ! do not let the Word depart 307 

Oh ! tender and sweet was the Master s voice 216 

Oh, the clanging bells of Time ! 138 

OH, TO BE NOTHING 208 

Oh, to have no Christ, no Saviour 202 

OH, WHAT ARE You GOING TO Do ? 208 

ON JORDAN S STORMY BANKS 209 

Once again the Gospel message 125 

ONE MORE DAY S WORK FOR JESUS 210 

ONE SWEETLY SOLEMN THOUGHT 211 

ONLY A BEAM OF SUNSHINE 334 

ONLY A STEP TO JESUS 212 

ONLY REMEMBERED BY WHAT WE HAVE DONE 334 

ONLY TRUST HIM 212 

ONWARD, CHRISTIAN SOLDIERS 214 

Our life is like a stormy sea 265 

OUT OF THE SHADOW-LAND 215 

OVER THE LINE 216 



P. 

PASS ME Nor 218 

PEACE! BE STILL! 220 



362 Index of Hymns 

Praise God, from whom all blessings flow 136 

PRECIOUS PROMISE GOD HAS GIVEN 335 

PULL FOR THE SHORE , 222 

R. 

Rejoice ! Rejoice ! Our King is coming 265 

RESCUE THE PERISHING 223 

REST FOR THE WEARY 225 

RING THE BELLS OF HEAVEN 226 

ROCK OF AGES 227 

S. 

SAFE IN THE ARMS OF JESUS 229 

SAVED BY GRACE 235 

Saviour, breathe an evening blessing 139 

Saviour, like a shepherd lead us 335 

SAVIOUR, MORE THAN LIFE 238 

Saviour, Thy dying love 243 

SAVIOUR, VISIT THY PLANTATION 336 

SCATTER SEEDS OF KINDNESS 239 

Shall we gather at the river? 118 

SHALL WE MEET ? 240 

SHALL You? SHALL I ? 240 

Simply trusting every day 291 

Sing them over again to me 39 

SINGING ALL THE TIME 241 

Sleep on, beloved, sleep, and take thy rest 259 

Some day the silver cord will break 235 

Some one will enter the pearly gate 240 

SOMETHING FOR JESUS 243 

SOMETIME WE LL UNDERSTAND 244 

Sowing the seed by the daylight fair 298 

STAND UP FOR JESUS 247 

Standing by a purpose true 134 

SUBSTITUTION 247 

SUN OF MY SOUL 336 

SWEET BY-AND-BY 249 

SWEET HOUR OF PRAYER 337 

SWEET PEACE, THE GIFT OF GOD S LOVE 251 

T. 

TAKE ME AS I AM 252 

Take my life, and let it be 132 

TAKE TIME TO BE HOLY . 337 



Index of Hymns 363 

TELL IT OUT 

TELL ME THE OLD, OLD STORY 

Ten Thousand Times Ten Thousand 338 

THAT WILL BE HEAVEN FOR ME 257 

THE ANCHORED SOUL 338 

THE CHILD OF A KING ! 258 

THE CHRISTIAN S GOOD NIGHT 259 

THE CROSS OE JESUS 260 

THE EYE OE FAITH 338 

THE GATE AJAR FOR ME 262 

THE HALF WAS NEVER TOLD 339 

THE HANDWRITING ON THE WALL 339 

THE HARBOR BELL 265 

THE KING is COMING ! 265 

THE LIGHT OF THE WORLD is JESUS 339 

THE LILY OF THE VALLEY 339 

The Lord s Our Rock, in Him we hide 106 

THE MISTAKES OF MY LIFE 266 

THE MODEL CHURCH 267 

THE MORNING LAND 341 

THE NINETY AND NINE 268 

THE SHINING SHORE 277 

THE SMITTEN ROCK 279 

THE SOLID ROCK 280 

THE SWEET STORY OF OLD 281 

THE WONDROUS CROSS 342 

There conies to my heart one sweet strain 251 

THERE is A FOUNTAIN 282 

There is a gate that stands ajar 262 

THERE is A GREEN HILL FAR AWAY 283 

There were ninety and nine that safely lay 268 

THERE LL BE NO DARK VALLEY 284 

There s a land that is fairer than day 249 

THERE S A LIGHT IN THE VALLEY 285 

There s a Stranger at the door 189 

This loving Saviour stands patiently 124 

Through the valley of the shadow I must go 285 

THROW OUT THE LIFE-LINE 286 

Tis MIDNIGHT 343 

TILL HE COME 343 

Tis the promise of God full salvation to give 145 

To the hall of the feast came the sinful and fair 107 

To THE WORK 289 

TO-DAY THE SAVIOUR CALLS 288 

TRUST AND OBEY 200 

TRUSTING Jesus, THAT is ALL 291 



364 Index of Hymns 

U. 
UNDER His WINGS 292 

V. 
VERILY, VERILY 292 

W. 

WAITING AND WATCHING FOR ME 293 

WE SHALL MEET BY AND BY 344 

We speak of the land of the blest 297 

WE SHALL SLEEP, BUT NOT FOREVER 344 

WELCOME ! WANDERER, WELCOME ! 294 

Well, wife I ve found the model church 267 

WHAT A FRIEND WE HAVE IN JESUS 295 

What means this eager, anxious throng ? 180 

WHAT MUST IT BE TO BE THERE ? 297 

WHAT SHALL THE HARVEST BE ? 298 

WHEN JESUS COMES 301 

When my final farewell to the world I have said 293 

When peace, like a river, attendeth my way 168 

WHEN THE MISTS HAVE ROLLED AWAY 301 

WHEN THE ROLL is CALLED UP YONDER 302 

When the trumpet of the Lord shall sound 302 

When we walk with the Lord 290 

WHERE is MY BOY TO-NIGHT ? 303 

WHILE THE DAYS ARE GOING BY 344 

While Jesus whispers to you 127 

WHITER THAN SNOW 306 

Whosoever heareth, shout, shout the sound 306 

"WHOSOEVER WILL" 306 

WHY NOT TO-NIGHT ? 307 

WINDOWS OPEN TOWARD JERUSALEM 308 

WONDERFUL WORDS OF LIFE 309 

WORK, FOR THE NIGHT is COMING 345 

Y. 

YE MUST BE BORN AGAIN 310 

YET THERE is ROOM 312 

YIELD NOT TO TEMPTATION 313 



"Improving our Hymns" 

We commend for general reading, and particularly for those 
who serve on committees preparing new Church or Church 
School Hymnals, a timely article in the Summer Number of Q 
that most excellent Christian Quarterly, Religion in LifefTtti\l x ^ 
is written by Rev. Dr. J. V. Moldenhawer, brilliant pastor of^ 
the First Presbyterian Church of New York City, and it strikes 
us as an extraordinarily sensible summons to first principles 
in hymnody. The author pays his respects to the third and 
fourth rate writers who have attempted to re-write Shake 
speare s plays, and then deplores the repeated and blundering | 
efforts of hymn book revisers who "chop and change" with each ^ 
new edition, handling with impertinence and ruthlessness "the &lt;}. 
accumulated tradition of the Church s popular hymnody," ap- ^ 
parently never so happy as when they take possession of the^x 
work of a better man and make it over to suit themselves, "as 
if they were forming a private and personal anthology of 
poetry and song." 

This is not "discreet and sober revision," says Dr. Molden 
hawer, but "unscrupulous and unsanctified meddling." In turn 
he discusses the omission of some of the noblest old hymns of 
the Church from the more recent Hymnals, by those who count 
themselves "musically intellectual," and who turn up their 
noses haughtily at certain so-called "impossible" hymns and 
tunes. Then he considers the omission of some of the best stan 
zas and the verbal changes which often misinterpret the hymn- 
writer and in many cases distinctly do not improve the hymn. 



LIBRARY 
INOX COLLEGE 

TORONTO 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 



KNOX COLLEGE LIBRARY 



