

PRETERIT A 


OUTLINES OF 

SCENES AND THOUGHTS 

PERHAPS 

WORTHY OF MEMORY 
IN MY PAST LIFE. 


BY 

JOHN RUSKIN, LL.D., 

HONORARY STUDENT OF CHRIST CHURCH, 

AND HONORARY FELLOW OF CORPUS CHRISTI COLLEGE, OXFORD. 


Volume III. 




NEW YORK: 

JOHN WILEY & SONS, 
53 East Tenth Street. 

1890. 


PR^TERITA. 


CHAPTER I. 

THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE. 

Mont Blanc Revisited. 

(Written at Nyon in 1845.) 

O Mount beloved, mine eyes again 
Behold the twilight’s sanguine stain 
Along thy peaks expire. 

O Mount beloved, thy frontier waste 
I seek with a religious haste 
And reverent desire. 

They meet me, ’midst thy shadows cold,— 
Such thoughts as holy men of old 
Amid the desert found;— 

Such gladness, as in Him they felt 
Who with them through the darkness dwelt, 
And compassed all around. 

Ah, happy, if His will were so. 

To give me manna here for snow, 

And by the torrent side 
To lead me as He leads His flocks 
Of wild deer through the lonely rocks 
In peace, unterrified; 





2 


L THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE . 


Since, from the things that trustful rest, 

The partridge on her purple nest, 

The marmot in his den, 

God wins a worship more resigned, 

A purer praise than He can find 
Upon the lips of men. 

Alas for man ! who hath no sense 
Of gratefulness nor confidence, 

But still regrets and raves, 

Till all God’s love can scarcely win 
One soul from taking pride in sin, 

And pleasure over graves. 

Yet teach me, God, a milder thought, 

Lest I, of all Thy blood has bought, 

Least honourable be; 

And this, that leads me to condemn, 

Be rather want of love for them 
Than jealousy for Thee. 

These verses, above noticed (ii., 134), with 
one following sonnet, as the last rhymes I at¬ 
tempted in any seriousness, were nevertheless 
themselves extremely earnest, and express, with 
more boldness and simplicity than I feel able to 
use now with my readers, the real temper in 
which I began the best work of my life. My 
mother at once found fault with the words 
“ sanguine stain,” as painful, and untrue of the 
rose-colour on snow at sunset; but they had 
their meaning to myself,—the too common 
Evangelical phrase, “washed in the blood of 







I. THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE . 3 

Christ,” being, it seemed to me, if true at all, 
true of the earth and her purest snow, as well as 
of her purest creatures; and the claim of being 
able to find among the rock-shadows thoughts 
such as hermits of old found in the desert, 
whether it seem immodest or not, was wholly 
true. Whatever might be my common faults or 
weaknesses, they were rebuked among the hills; 
and the only days I can look back to as, accord¬ 
ing to the powers given me, rightly or wisely in 
entireness spent, have been in sight of Mont 
Blanc, Monte Rosa, or the Jungfrau. 

When I was most strongly under this influ¬ 
ence, I tried to trace,—and I think have traced 
rightly, so far as I was then able,—in the last 
chapter of “ Modern Painters,” the power of 
mountains in solemnizing the thoughts and 
purifying the hearts of the greatest nations of 
antiquity, and the greatest teachers of Christian 
faith. But I did not then dwell on what I had 
only felt, but not ascertained,—the destruction 
of all sensibility of this high order in the popu¬ 
lations of modern Europe, first by the fine lux¬ 
ury of the fifteenth century, and then by the 
coarse lusts of the eighteenth and early nine¬ 
teenth: destruction so total that religious men 
themselves became incapable of education by 
any natural beauty or nobleness; and though 
still useful to others by their ministrations and 



4 /. THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE. 

charities, in the corruption of cities, were them¬ 
selves lost,—or even degraded, if they ever went 
up into the mountain to preach, or into the wil¬ 
derness to pray. 

There is no word, in the fragment of diary 
recording, in last “ Prseterita,” our brief visit to 
the Grande Chartreuse, of anything we saw or 
heard there that made impression upon any of 
us. Yet a word was said, of significance enough 
to alter the course of religious thought in me, 
afterwards for ever. 

I had been totally disappointed with the 
Monastery itself, with the pass of approach to it, 
with the mountains round it, and with the monk 
who showed us through it. The building was 
meanly designed and confusedly grouped; the 
road up to it nothing like so terrific as most 
roads in the Alps up to anywhere; the moun¬ 
tains round were simplest commonplace of 
Savoy cliff, with no peaks, no glaciers, no cas¬ 
cades, nor even any slopes of pine in extent of 
majesty. And the monk who showed us through 
the corridors had no cowl worth the wearing, no 
beard worth the wagging, no expression but of 
superciliousness without sagacity, and an ungra¬ 
ciously dull manner, showing that he was much 
tired of the place, more of himself, and alto¬ 
gether of my father and me. 

Having followed him for a time about the 





I. THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE. $ 


passages of the scattered building, in which 
there was nothing to shew,—not a picture, not 
a statue, not a bit of old glass, or well-wrought 
vestment or jewellery; nor any architectural 
feature in the least ingenious or lovely, we came 
to a pause at last in what I suppose was a type 
of a modern Carthusian's cell, wherein, leaning 
on the window sill, I said something in the style 
of “ Modern Painters,” about the effect of the 
scene outside upon religious minds. Whereupon, 
with a curl of his lip, “ We do not come here,” 
said the monk, “ to look at the mountains.” 
Under which rebuke I bent my head silently, 
thinking however all the same, “What then, by 
all that's stupid, do you come here for at all?” 

Which, from that hour to this, I have not 
conceived; nor, after giving my best attention to 
the last elaborate account of Carthusian faith, 
“ La Crando Chartreuse, par un Chartreux, 
Grenoble, 5, Rue Broeherie, 1884,” am I the 
least wiser. I am informed by that author that 
his fraternity are Eremite beyond all other man¬ 
ner of men,—that they delight in solitude, and 
in that amiable disposition pass lives of an 
angelic tenor, meditating on the charms of the 
next world, and the vanities of this one. 

I sympathize with them in their love of quiet 
—to the uttermost; but do not hold that liking 
to be the least pious or amiable in myself, nor 


6 y . the grande chartreuse . 


understand why it seems so to them; or why 
their founder, St. Bruno,—a man of the bright¬ 
est faculties in teaching, and exhorting, and di¬ 
recting; also, by favour of fortune, made a 
teacher and governor in the exact centre of 
European thought and order, the royal city of 
Rheims,—should think it right to leave all that 
charge, throw down his rod of rule, his crozier 
of protection, and come away to enjoy medita¬ 
tion on the next world by himself. 

And why meditation among the Alps? He 
and his disciples might as easily have avoided 
the rest of mankind by shutting themselves into 
a penitentiary on a plain, or in whatever kind 
country they chanced to be born in, without 
danger to themselves of being buried by ava¬ 
lanches, or trouble to their venerating visitors in 
coming so far up hill. 

Least of all I understand how they could pass 
their days of meditation without getting inter¬ 
ested in plants and stones, whether they would 
or no; nor how they could go on writing books 
in scarlet and gold,—(for they were great scribes, 
and had a beautiful library,)—persisting for cen¬ 
turies in the same patterns, and never trying to 
draw a bird or a leaf rightly—until the days 
when books were illuminated no more for relig¬ 
ion, but for luxury, and the amusement of sickly 
fancy. 


/. THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE. 7 


Without endeavouring to explain any of these 
matters, I will try to set down in this chapter, 
merely what I have found monks or nuns like, 
when by chance I was thrown into their com¬ 
pany, and of what use they have been to me. 

And first let me thank my dear Miss Edge- 
worth for the ideal character of Sister Frances, 
in her story of Madame de Fleury, which, read 
over and over again through all my childhood, 
fixed in me the knowledge of what a good sister 
of charity can be, and for the most part is, in 
France; and, of late, I suppose in Germany and 
England. 

But the first impression from life of the se¬ 
cluded Sisterhoods* was given me at the Con¬ 
vent of St. Michael, on the summit of the iso¬ 
lated peak of lava at Le Puy, in Auvergne, in 
1840. The hostess-sister who showed my father 
and me what it was permitted to see of chapel 
or interior buildings, was a cheerful, simple crea¬ 
ture, pleased with us at once for our courtesy to 
her, and admiration of her mountain home, and 
belief in her sacred life. Protestant visitors be- 


* Of the Brotherhoods, of course the first I knew were 
those of St. Bernard; but these were not secluded for 
their own spiritual welfare, any more than our coast- 
guardsmen by the Goodwin sands; and are to be spoken 
of elsewhere, and in quite other relations to the modern 
world. 



8 I. THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE . 


ing then rare in Auvergne, and still more, rever¬ 
ent and gentle ones, she gave her pretty curios¬ 
ity free sway; and enquired earnestly of us, 
what sort of creatures we were,—how far we be¬ 
lieved in God, or tried to be good, or hoped to 
go to heaven? And our responses under this 
catechism being in their sum more pleasing to 
her than she had expected, and manifesting, to 
her extreme joy and wonder, a Christian spirit, 
so far as she could judge, in harmony with all 
she had been herself taught, she proceeded to 
cross-examine us on closer points of Divinity, 
to find out, if she could, why we were, or unnec¬ 
essarily called ourselves, anything else than 
Catholic? The one flaw in our faith which at 
last her charity fastened on, was that we were 
not sure of our salvation in Christ, but only 
hoped to get into heaven,—and were not at all, 
by that dim hope, relieved from terror of death,, 
when at any time it should come. Whereupon 
she launched involuntarily into an eager and 
beautiful little sermon, to every word of which 
her own perfectly happy and innocent face gave 
vivid power, and assurance of sincerity,—how 
“ we needed to be sure of our safety in Christ, 
and that every one might be so who came to- 
Him and prayed to Him; and that all good 
Catholics were as sure of heaven as if they were 
already there;” and so dismissed us at the gate 



/. THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE . 


9 


with true pity, and beseeching that we would 
prove the goodness of God, and be in peace. 
Which exhortation of hers I have never forgot¬ 
ten; only it has always seemed to me that there 
was no entering into that rest of hers but by 
living on the top of some St. Michael’s rock too, 
which it did not seem to me I was meant to do, 
by any means. 

But in here recording the impression made on 
my father and me, I must refer to what I said 
above of our common feeling of being, both of 
us, as compared with my mother, reprobate and 
worldly characters, despising our birthright like 
Esau, or cast out, for our mocking ways, like Ish- 
mael. For my father never ventured to give me 
a religious lesson; and though he went to church 
with a resigned countenance, I knew very well 
that he liked going just as little as I did. 

The second and fourth summers after that, 
1842 and 1844, were spent happily and quietly 
in the Prieure* of Chamouni, and there of course 
we all of us became acquainted with the erne, 
and saw the entire manner of life in a purely 
Catholic village and valley,—recognising it, I 
hope, all of us, in our hearts, to be quite as 
Christian as anything we knew of, and much 


* Not in the Priory itself, but the Hotel de l’Union. 
The whole village is called “ The Priory. ” 



IO /. THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE. 


pleasanter and prettier than the Sunday services, 
in England, which exhaust the little faith we 
have left. 

Wordsworth in his continental notices of peas¬ 
ant Catholicism, recognises, also at Chamouni, 
very gracefully this external prettiness— 

“ They too, who send so far a holy gleam. 

As they the Church engird with motion slow, 

A product of that awful mountain seem 

Poured from its vaults of everlasting snow. 

Not virgin lilies marshalled in bright row, 

Not swans descending with the stealthy tide, 

A livelier sisterly resemblance show 

Than the fair forms that in long order glide 
Bear to the glacier band, those shapes aloft descried.” 

But on me, the deeper impression was of a con¬ 
tinuous and serene hold of their happy faith on 
the life alike of Sunday and Monday, and through 
every hour and circumstance of youth and age; 
which yet abides in all the mountain Catholic 
districts of Savoy, the Waldstetten, and the Ty¬ 
rol, to their perpetual honour and peace; and 
this without controversy, or malice towards the 
holders of other beliefs. 

Next, in 1845, I saw i n Florence, as above 
told, the interior economy of the monasteries at 
Santa Maria Novella,—in the Franciscan clois¬ 
ters of Fesole, and in Fra Angelico’s, both at 
San Domenico and San Marco. Which, in what¬ 
ever they retained of their old thoughts and 



I. THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE. 


ir 


ways, were wholly beautiful; and the monks 
with whom I had any casual intercourse, always 
kind, innocently eager in sympathy with my own 
work, and totally above men of the “ world” in 
general understanding, courtesy, and moral sense. 

Men of the outer world, I mean, of course, 
—official and commercial. Afterwards at Ven¬ 
ice I had a very dear, and not at all monastic, 
friend, Rawdon Brown; but his society were the 
Venetians of the fifteenth century. The Counts 
Minischalchi at Verona, and Borromeo at Milan, 
would have been endlessly kind and helpful to 
me; but I never could learn Italian enough to 
speak to them. Whereas, with my monkish 
friends, at the Armenian isle of Venice, and in 
any churches or cloisters through North Italy, 
where I wanted a niche to be quiet in, and 
chiefly at last in Assisi, I got on with any broken 
French or Italian I could stutter, without mind¬ 
ing; and was always happy. 

But the more I loved or envied the monks, 
and the more I depised the modern commercial 
and fashionable barbaric tribes, the more acutely 
also I felt that the Catholic political hierarchies, 
and isolated remnants of celestial enthusiasm, 
were hopelessly at fault in their dealing with 
these adversaries; having also elements of cor¬ 
ruption in themselves, which justly brought on 
them the fierce hostility of men like Garibaldi 



12 L THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE . 


in Italy, and of the honest and open-hearted 
liberal leaders in other countries. Thus, irre¬ 
spectively of all immediate contest or progress, 
I saw in the steady course of the historical read¬ 
ing by which I prepared myself to write the 
Stones of Venice, that, alike in the world and 
the Church, the hearts of men were led astray 
by the same dreams and desires; and whether 
in seeking for Divine perfection, or earthly pleas¬ 
ure, were alike disobeying the laws of God when 
they withdrew from their direct and familiar du¬ 
ties, and ceased, whether in ascetic or self-in¬ 
dulgent lives, to honour and love their neighbour 
as themselves. 

While these convictions prevented me from 
being ever led into acceptance of Catholic teach¬ 
ing by my reverence for the Catholic art of the 
great ages,—and the less, because the Catholic 
art of these small ages can say but little for it¬ 
self,—I grew also daily more sure that the peace 
of God rested on all the dutiful and kindly 
hearts of the laborious poor; and that the only 
constant form of pure religion was in useful 
work, faithful love, and stintless charity. 

In which pure religion neither St. Bruno him¬ 
self nor any of his true disciples failed: and I 
perceive it finally notable of them, that, poor by 
a resolute choice of a life of hardship, without 
any sentimental or fallacious glorifying of “ Holy 









/. THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE. 13 


poverty ” as if God had never promised full gar¬ 
ners for a blessing; and always choosing men of 
high intellectual power for the heads of their 
community, they have had more directly whole¬ 
some influence on the outer world than any 
other order of monks so narrow in number, and 
restricted in habitation. For while the Francis¬ 
can and Cistercian monks became-everywhere a 
constant element in European society, the Car¬ 
thusians, in their active sincerity, remained, in 
groups of not more than from twelve to twenty 
monks in any single monastery, the tenants of a 
few wild valleys of the north-western Alps; the 
subsequent over-flowing of their brotherhood 
into the Certosas of the Lombard plains being 
mere waste and wreck of them; and the great 
Certosa of Pavia one of the worst shames of 
Italy, associated with the accursed reign of 
Galeazzo Visconti. But in their strength, from 
the foundation of the order, at the close of the 
eleventh century, to the beginning of the four¬ 
teenth, they reared in their mountain fastnesses,, 
and sent out to minister to the world, a succes¬ 
sion of men of immense mental grasp, and se¬ 
renely authoritative innocence; among whom our 
own Hugo of Lincoln, in his relations with 
Henry I. and Coeur de Lion, is to my mind the 
most beautiful sacerdotal figure known to me in 
history. The great Pontiffs have a power which 




14 7 . THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE. 


in its strength can scarcely be used without 
■cruelty, nor in its scope without error; the great 
Saints are always in some degree incredible or 
unintelligible; but Hugo’s power is in his own 
personal courage and justice only; and his sanc¬ 
tity as clear, frank, and playful as the waves of 
his own Chartreuse well.* 

I must not let myself be led aside from my 
own memories into any attempt to trace the ef¬ 
fect on Turner’s mind of his visit to the Char¬ 
treuse, rendered as it is in the three subjects of 
the Liber Studiorum,—from the Chartreuse it¬ 
self, from Holy Island, and Dumblane Abbey. 
The strength of it was checked by his love and 
awe of the sea, and sailor heroism, and confused 
by his classical thought and passion; but in my 
own life, the fading away of the nobler feelings 
in which I had worked in the Campo Santo of 
Pisa, however much my own fault, was yet com¬ 
plicated with the inevitable discovery of the 
falseness of the religious doctrines in which I 
had been educated. 

The events of the ten years 1850-1860, for 
the most part wasted in useless work, must be 
arranged first in their main order, before I can 
give clear account of anything that happened in 

* The original building was grouped round a spring in 
the rock, from which a runlet was directed through every 
cell. 





I. THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE. 15 


them. But this breaking down of my Puritan 
faith, being the matter probably most important 
to many readers of my later books, shall be 
traced in this chapter to the sorrowful end. 
Note first the main facts of the successive years 
of the decade. 

1851. Turner dies, while I am at first main 
work in Venice, for “ The Stones of Venice.” 

1852. Final work in Venice for “ Stones of 
Venice.” Book finished that winter. Six hun¬ 
dred quarto pages of notes for it, fairly and 
closely written, now useless. Drawings as many 
—of a sort; useless too. 

1853. Henry Acland in Glenfinlas with me. 
Drawing of gneiss rock made; nowin the school 
at Oxford. Two months’ work in what fair 
weather could be gleaned out of that time. 

1854. With my father and mother at Vevay 
and Thun. I take up the history of Switzerland, 
and propose to engrave a series of drawings of 
the following Swiss towns: Geneva, Fribourg, 
Basle, Thun, Baden, and Schaffhausen. I pro¬ 
ceed to make drawings for this work, of which 
the first attempted (of Thun) takes up the whole 
of the summer, and is only half done then. 
Definition of Poetry, for “ Modern Painters,” 
written at Vevay, looking across lake to Chillon. 
It leaves out rhythm, which I now consider a 
defect in said definition; otherwise good,—“ The 



16 /. the grande chartreuse . 

.arrangement, by imagination, of noble motive 
for noble emotion.” I forget the exact words, 
but these others will do as well, perhaps better. 

1855. Notes on Royal Academy begun. The 
spring is so cold that the hawthorns are only in 
bud on the 5th of June. I get cough, which 
lasts for two months, till I go down to Tun¬ 
bridge Wells to my doctor cousin, William 
Richardson, who puts me to bed, gives me some 
syrup, cures me in three days, and calls me a 
fool for not coming to him before, with some 
rather angry warnings that I had better not keep 
a cough for two months again. Third volume 
<of “ Modern Painters ” got done with, somehow, 
Tut didn’t know what to call it, so called it 
u Of Many Things.” But none of these were 
u done with,” as I found afterwards, to my cost. 

1856. With my father and mother to Geneva 
and Fribourg. Two drawings at Fribourg took 
up the working summer. My father begins to 
tire of the proposed work on Swiss towns, and 
to enquire whether the rest of “ Modern Painters” 
will ever be done. 

1857. My mother wants me to see the Bay of 
■Cromarty and the Falls of Kilmorock. I con¬ 
sent sulkily to be taken to Scotland with that 
object. Papa and mamma, wistfully watching the 
effect on my mind, show their Scotland to me. I 
•see, on my own quest, Craig-Ellachie, and the 




2 . THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE. 17 

Lachin-y-Gair forests, and finally reach the Bay 
of Cromarty and Falls of Kilmorock, doubtless 
now the extreme point of my northern discoveries 
on the round earth. I admit, generously, the 
Bay of Cromarty and the Falls to be worth com¬ 
ing all that way to see; but beg papa and mam¬ 
ma to observe that it is twenty miles’ walk, in 
bogs, to the top of Ben Wevis, that the town of 
Dingwall is not like Milan or Venice,—and 
that I think we have seen enough of Scotland. 

1858. Accordingly, after arranging, mounting, 
framing, and cabinetting, with good help from 
Richard Williams of Messrs. Foord’s, the Tur¬ 
ner drawings now in the catacombs of the Na¬ 
tional Gallery, I determine to add two more Swiss 
towns to my list, namely, Rheinfelden and Bel- 
linzona, in illustration of Turner’s sketches at 
those places; and get reluctant leave from my 
father to take Couttet again, and have all my 
own way. I spent the spring at Rheinfelden, 
and the summer at Bellinzona. But Couttet 
being of opinion that these town views will come 
to no good, and that the time I spend on the 
roof of “ cette baraque” at Bellinzona is wholly 
•wasted, I give the town views all up, and take to 
Vandyke and Paul Veronese again in the gallery 
of Turin. But, on returning home, my father is 
not satisfied with my studies from those masters, 
and piteously asks for the end of “ Modern 





18 /. THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE. 

Painters/’ saying “ he will be dead before it is 
done.” Much ashamed of myself, I promise 
him to do my best on it without farther subter¬ 
fuge. 

1859. Hard writing and drawing to that end. 
Fourth volume got done. My father thinks, 
himself, I ought to see Berlin, Dresden, Munich, 
and Nuremberg, before the book is finished. He 
and my mother take their last continental journey 
with me to those places. I have my last happy 
walk with my father at Konigstein. 

1860. I work hard all the winter and early 
spring—finish the book, in a sort; my father well 
pleased with the last chapter, and the engraved 
drawings from Nuremberg and Rheinfelden. On 
the strength of this piece of filial duty, I am 
cruel enough to go away to St. Martin’s again, by 
myself, to meditate on what is to be done next. 
Thence I go up to Chamouni,—where a new 
epoch of life and death begins. 

And here I must trace, as simply and rapidly 
as may be, the story of my relations with the 
Working Men’s College. 

I knew of its masters only the Principal, F. D. 
Maurice, and my own friend Rossetti. It is to 
be remembered of Rossetti with loving honour, 
that he was the only one of our modern painters 
who taught disciples for love of them. He was 
really not an Englishman, but a great Italian 



/. THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE, 1 9 

tormented in the Inferno of London; doing the 
best he could, and teaching the best he could; 
but the “ could ” shortened by the strength of his 
animal passions, without any trained control, or 
guiding faith. Of him, more hereafter. 

I loved Frederick Maurice, as every one did 
who came near him; and have no doubt he did 
all that was in him to do of good in his day. 
Which could by no means be said either of 
Rossetti or of me: but Maurice was by nature 
puzzle-headed,'and, though in a beautiful manner, 
ww^-headed; while his clear conscience and 
keen affections made him egotistic, and in his 
Bible-reading, as insolent as any infidel of them 
all. I only went once to a Bible-lesson of his; 
and the meeting was significant, and conclusive. 

The subject of lesson, JaeFs slaying of Sisera. 
Concerning which, Maurice, taking an enlight¬ 
ened modern view of what was fit and not, dis¬ 
coursed in passionate indignation; and warned 
his class, in the most positive and solemn man¬ 
ner, that such dreadful deeds could only have 
been done in cold blood in the Dark Biblical 
ages; and that no religious and patriotic English¬ 
woman ought ever to think of imitating Jael by 
nailing a Russian’s or Prussian’s skull to the 
ground,—especially after giving him butter in a 
lordly dish. At the close of the instruction, 
through which I sate silent, I ventured to en- 



20 /. THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE. 

quire, why then had Deborah the prophetess de¬ 
clared of Jael, “Blessed above women shall the 
wife of Heber the Kenite be”? On which Mau¬ 
rice, with startled and flashing eyes, burst into 
partly scornful, partly alarmed, denunciation of 
Deborah the prophetess, as a mere blazing 
Amazon; and of her Song as a merely rhythmic 
storm of battle-rage, no more to be listened to 
with edification or faith than the Norman’s 
sword-song at the battle of Hastings. 

Whereupon there remained nothing for me ,— 
to whom the Song of Deborah was as sacred as 
the Magnificat,—but total collapse in sorrow 
and astonishment; the eyes of all the class being 
also bent on me in amazed reprobation of my 
benighted views, and unchristian sentiments. 
And I got away how I could, and never went 
back. 

That being the first time in my life that I had 
fairly met the lifted head of Earnest and Relig¬ 
ious Infidelity—in a man neither vain nor am¬ 
bitious, but instinctively and innocently trusting 
his own amiable feelings as the final interpreters 
of all the possible feelings of men and angels, 
all the songs of the prophets, and all the ways of 
God. 

It followed, of course, logically and necessa¬ 
rily, that every one of Maurice’s disciples also 
took what views he chose of the songs of the 





z : the grande chartreuse . 


Cl 


prophets,—or wrote songs of his own, me:e 
adapted to the principles of the College, and the 
ctlxics of London. Maurice, in all his addresses 
to xis, dwelt mainly on the simple function of a 
college as a collection or collation of friendly 
Persons,—not in the least as a place in which 
such and such things were to be taught, and oth¬ 
ers denied; such and such conduct vowed, and 
o timer such and such abjured. So the College 
Vent on,—collecting, carpentering, sketching, 
criticising, etc., virtually with no head; 
bext only a clasp to the strap of its waist, and as 
ni any heads as it had students. The leaven of 
its affectionate temper has gone far; but how 
far also the leaven of its pride, and defiance of 
everything above it, nobody quite knows. I 
toolc two special pupils out of its ranks, to carry 
them forward all I could. One I chose; the 
other chose me—or rather, chose my mother’s 
maid Hannah; for love of whom he came to the 
College, learned drawing there under Rossetti 
and me,—and became eventually, Mr. George 
All on of Sunnyside; who, I hope, still looks 
back to his having been an entirely honest and 
perfect working joiner as the foundation of his 
prosperity in life. The other student I chose 
myself, a carpenter of equal skill and great fine¬ 
ness of faculty; but his pride, wilfulness, and 
certain angular narrownesses of nature, kept him 



22 I. THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE . 


down,—together with the deadly influence of 
London itself, and of working men’s clubs, as 
well as colleges. And finally, in this case, and 
many more, I have very clearly ascertained that 
the only proper school for workmen is of the 
work their fathers bred them to, under masters 
able to do better than any of their men, and 
with common principles of honesty and the fear 
of God, to guide the firm. 

Somewhat before the date of my farewell to 
Maurician free-thinking, I had come into still 
more definite collision with the Puritan dogmata 
which forbid thinking at all, in a seance to which 
I was invited, shyly, by my friend Macdonald,— 
fashionable seance of Evangelical doctrine, at 
the Earl of Ducie’s; presided over by Mr. Moly- 
neux, then a divine of celebrity in that sect; who 
sate with one leg over his other knee in the at¬ 
titude always given to Herod at the massacre of 
the Innocents in mediaeval sculpture; and dis¬ 
coursed in tones of consummate assurance and 
satisfaction, and to the entire comfort and con¬ 
sent of his Belgravian audience, on the beautiful 
parable of the Prodigal Son. Which, or how 
many, of his hearers he meant to describe as 
having personally lived on husks, and devoured 
their fathers’ property, did not of course appear; 
but that something of the sort was necessary to 
the completeness of the joy in heaven over them. 





7 THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE. 


now in Belgrave Square, at the feet—or one foot 
—of Mr. Molyneux, could not be questioned. 

Waiting my time, till the raptures of the con¬ 
verted company had begun to flag a little, I ven¬ 
tured, from a back seat, to enquire of Mr. Moly¬ 
neux what we were to learn from the example of 
the other son, not prodigal, who was, his father 
said of him,“ ever with me, and all that I have, 
thine”? A sudden horror, and unanimous feeling 
of the serpent having, somehow, got over the wall 
into their Garden of Eden, fell on the whole 
company; and some of them, I thought, looked 
at the candles, as if they expected them to burn 
blue. After a pause of a minute, gathering him¬ 
self into an expression of pity and indulgence, 
withholding latent thunder, Mr. Molyneux ex¬ 
plained to me that the home-staying son was. 
merely a picturesque figure introduced to fill the 
background of the parable agreeably, and con¬ 
tained no instruction or example for the well- 
disposed scriptural student, but, on the contrary,, 
rather a snare for the unwary, and a temptation 
to self-righteousness,—which was, of all sins, the 
most offensive to God. 

Under the fulmination of which answer I re¬ 
tired, as from Maurice’s, from the seance in si¬ 
lence; nor ever attended another of the kind 
from that day to this. 

But neither the Puritanism of Belgravia, nor 






24 /. THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE. 

Liberalism of Red Lion Square, interested, or 
offended, me, otherwise than as the grotesque 
conditions of variously typhoid or smoke-dried 
London life. To my old Scotch shepherd Pu¬ 
ritanism, and the correspondent forms of noble 
French Protestantism, I never for an instant 
failed in dutiful affection and honour. From 
John Bunyan and Isaac Ambrose, I had received 
the religion by which I still myself lived, as far 
as I had spiritual life at all; and I had again and 
again proof enough of its truth, within limits, to 
have served me for all my own need, either in 
this world or the next. But my ordained busi¬ 
ness, and mental gifts, were outside of those lim¬ 
its. I saw, as clearly as I saw the sky and its 
stars, that music in Scotland was not to be stud¬ 
ied under a Free Church precentor, nor indeed 
under any disciples of John Knox, but of Sig- 
nior David; that, similarly, painting in England 
was not to be admired in the illuminations of 
Watts’ hymns; nor architecture in the design 
of Mr. Iron’s chapel in the Grove. And here I 
must take up a thread of my mental history, as 
yet unfastened. 

I have spoken several times of the effect given 
cheaply to my drawings of architecture by dex¬ 
terous dots and flourishes, doing duty for orna¬ 
ment. Already, in 1845, I had begun to distin¬ 
guish Corinthian from Norman capitals, and in 



/. THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE. 2 $ 


1848, drew the niches and sculpture of French 
Gothic with precision and patience. But I had 
never cared for ornamental design until in 1850 
or ’51 I chanced, at a bookseller’s in a back alley, 
on a little fourteenth century Hours of the 
Virgin, not of refined work, but extremely rich, 
grotesque, and full of pure colour. 

The new worlds which every leaf of this book 
opened to me, and the joy I had, counting their 
letters and unravelling their arabesques as if 
they had all been of beaten gold,—as many of 
them indeed were,—cannot be told, any more 
than—everything else, of good, that I wanted to 
tell. Not that the worlds thus opening were 
themselves new, but only the possession of any 
part in them; for long and long ago I had gazed 
at the illuminated missals in noblemen’s houses 
(see above, p. 5, vol. i.), with a wonder and sym¬ 
pathy deeper than I can give now; my love of 
toil, and of treasure, alike getting their thirst 
gratified in them. For again and again I must 
repeat it, my nature is a worker’s and a miser’s; 
and I rejoiced, and rejoice still, in the mere 
quantity of chiselling in marble, and stitches in 
embroidery; and was never tired of numbering 
sacks of gold and caskets of jewels in the Arabian 
•Nights: and though I am generous too, and love 
giving, yet my notion of charity is not at all di¬ 
viding my last crust with a beggar, but riding 







26 /. THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE . 

through a town like a Commander of the Faith¬ 
ful, having any quantity of sequins and ducats 
in saddle-bags (where cavalry officers have hol¬ 
sters for their pistols), and throwing them round 
in radiant showers and hailing handfuls; with 
more bags to brace on when those were empty. 

But now that I had a missal of my own, and 
could touch its leaves and turn, and even here 
and there understand the Latin of it, no girl of 
seven years old with a new doll is prouder or hap¬ 
pier: but the feeling was something between the 
girl’s with her doll, and Aladdin’s in a new Spirit- 
slave to build palaces for him with jewel windows. 
For truly a well-illuminated missal is a fairy 
cathedral full of painted windows, bound to¬ 
gether to carry in one’s pocket, with the music 
and the blessing of all its prayers besides. 

And then followed, of course, the discovery 
that all beautiful prayers were Catholic,—all wise 
interpretations of the Bible Catholic;—and every 
manner of Protestant written services whatsoever 
either insolently altered corruptions, or washed- 
out and ground-down rags and debris of the 
great Catholic collects, litanies, and songs of 
praise. 

“ But why did not you become a Catholic at 
once, then?” 

It might as well be asked, Why did not I be¬ 
come a fire-worshipper? I could become nothing 





L THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE . 27 

but what I was, or was growing into. I no more 
believed in the living Pope than I did in the 
living Khan of Tartary. I saw indeed that 
twelfth century psalters were lovely and right, 
and that presbyterian prayers against time, by 
people who never expected to be any the better, 
for them, were unlovely and wrong. But I had 
never read the Koran, nor Confucius, nor Plato, 
nor Hesiod, and was only just beginning to un¬ 
derstand my Virgil and Horace. Plow I ever 
came to understand them is a new story, which 
must be for next chapter: meantime let me finish 
the confessions of this one in the tale of my final 
apostacy from Puritan doctrine. 

The most stern practical precept of that doc¬ 
trine still holding me,—it is curiously inbound 
with all the rest,—was the Sabbath keeping; the 
idea that one was not to seek one’s own pleasure 
on Sunday, nor to do anything useful. Grad¬ 
ually, in honest Bible reading, I saw that Christ’s 
first article of teaching was to unbind the yoke 
of the Sabbath, while, as a Jew, He yet obeyed 
the Mosaic law concerning it; but that St. Paul 
had carefully abolished it altogether, and that 
the rejoicing, in memory of the Resurrection, on 
the Day of the Sun, the first of the week, was 
only by misunderstanding, and much wilful ob¬ 
stinacy, confused with the Sabbath of the Jew. 

Nevertheless, the great passages in the Old 



28 /. THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE . 


Testament regarding its observance held their 
power over me, nor have ceased to do so; but ' 
the inveterate habit of being unhappy all Sunday; 
did not in any way fulfil the order to call the? 
Sabbath a delight. 

I have registered the year 1858 as the next, 
after 1845, in which I had complete guidance of 
myself. Couttet met me at Basle, and I went 
on to Rheinfelden with great joy, and stayed to 
draw town and bridges completely (two of the 
studies are engraved in “ Modern Painters ”). 

I think it was the second Sunday there, and 
no English church. I had read the service with 
George, and gone out afterwards alone for a 
walk up a lovely dingle on the Black Forest side 
of the Rhine, where every pretty cottage was in¬ 
scribed, in fair old German characters, with the 
date of its building, the names of the married 
pair who had built it, and a prayer that, with 
God’s blessing, their habitation of it, and its 
possession by their children, might be in right¬ 
eousness and peace. Not in these set terms, of 
course, on every house, but in variously quaint 
verses or mottoes, meaning always as much as this. 

Very happy in my Sunday walk, I gathered 
what wild flowers were in their first springing, 
and came home with a many-coloured cluster, in 
which the dark purple orchis was chief. I had 
never examined its structure before, and by this 



7 THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE. 2g 


afternoon sunlight did so with care; also it 
seemed to me wholly right to describe it as I ex¬ 
amined; and to draw the outlines as I described, 
though with a dimly alarmed consciousness of 
its being a new fact in existence [for me, that I 
should draw on Sunday. 

"Which thenceforward I continued to do, if it 
seemed to me there was due occasion. Never¬ 
theless, come to pass how it might, the real new 
fact in existence for me was that my drawings 
cLicL not prosper that year, and, in deepest sense, 
never prospered again. They might not have 
prospered in the course of things,—and indeed, 
could not without better guidance than my 
own; nevertheless, the crisis of change is marked 
ixt Rheinfelden by my having made there 
two really pretty colour-vignettes, which, had I 
only gone on doing the like of, the journey would 
have been visibly successful in every body’s sight. 
"Whereas, what actually followed those vignettes 
a.t Rheinfelden was a too ambitious attempt at 
the cliffs of the Bay of Uri, which crushed the 
strength down in me; and next, a persistently furi- 
ous one to draw the entire town, three fortresses, 
and surrounding mountains of Bellinzona, grad¬ 
ually taming and contracting itself into a meekly 
obstinate resolve that at least I would draw 
every stone of the roof right in one tower of the 
vineyards,—cette baraque, as Couttet called it. 





30 7 . THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE. 


I did draw every stone, nearly right, at last in 
that single roof; and meantime read the Plutus 
of Aristophanes, three or four times over in two 
months, with long walks every afternoon, besides. 
Total result on ist of August—general desolation, 
and disgust with Bellinzona,—cette baraque,— 
and most of all with myself, for not yet knowing 
Greek enough to translate the Plutus. In this 
state of mind, a fit took me of hunger for city 
life again, military bands, nicely-dressed people, 
and shops with something inside. And I em¬ 
phasized Couttet’s disapproval of the whole tour, 
by announcing to him suddenly that I was going, 
of all places in the world, to Turin! 

I had still some purpose, even in this libertin- 
age, namely, to outline the Alpine chain from 
Monte Yiso to Monte Rosa. Its base was with¬ 
in a drive; and there were Veroneses in the 
Royal gallery, for wet days. The luxury of the 
Hotel de PEurope was extremely pleasant after 
brick floors and bad dinners at Bellinzona;— 
there was a quiet little opera house, where it was 
always a kindness to the singers to attend to the 
stage business; finally, any quantity of marching 
and manoeuvring by the best troops in Italy, with 
perfect military bands, beautifully tossing plumes, 
and pretty ladies looking on. So I settled at 
Turin for the autumn. 

There, one Sunday morning, I made my way 



Z THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE. 31 


in the south suburb to a little chapel which, by 
a dusty roadside, gathered to its unobserved door 
the few sheep of the old Waldensian faith who 
had wandered from their own pastures under 
Monte Viso into the worldly capital of Piedmont. 

The assembled congregation numbered in all 
some three or four and twenty, of whom fifteen 
or sixteen were grey-haired women. Their soli¬ 
tary and clerkless preacher, a somewhat stunted 
figure in a plain black coat, with a cracked voice, 
after leading them through the languid forms of 
prayer which are all that in truth are possible to 
people whose present life is dull and its terres¬ 
trial future unchangeable, put his utmost zeal 
into a consolatory discourse on the wickedness 
of the wide world, more especially of the plain 
of Piedmont and city of Turin, and on the ex¬ 
clusive favour with God, enjoyed by the between 
nineteen and twenty-four elect members of his 
congregation, in the streets of Admah and 
Zeboim. 

Myself neither cheered nor greatly alarmed by 
this doctrine, I walked back into the condemned 
city, and up into the gallery where Paul Vero¬ 
nese’s Solomon and the Queen of Sheba glowed 
in full afternoon light. The gallery windows 
being open, there came in with the warm air, 
floating swells and falls of military music, from 
the courtyard before the palace, which seemed 


32 /. THE GRANDE CHARTREUSE . 


to me more devotional, in their perfect art, tune, 
and discipline, than anything I remembered of 
evangelical hymns. And as the perfect colour 
and sound gradually asserted their power on me, 
they seemed finally to fasten me in the old article 
of Jewish faith, that things done delightfully and 
rightly, were always done by the help and in the 
Spirit of God. 

Of course that hour's meditation in the gallery 
of Turin only concluded the courses of thought 
which had been leading me to such end through 
many years. There was no sudden conversion 
possible to me, either by preacher, picture, or 
dulcimer. But that day, my evangelical beliefs 
were put away, to be debated of no more. 




CHAPTER II. 


MONT VELAN. 

I was crowded for room at the end of last 
chapter, and could not give account of one or 
two bits of investigation of the Vaudois char¬ 
acter, which preceded the Queen of Sheba crash. 
It wasn’t the Queen herself,—by the way,—but 
only one of her maids of honour, on whose gold 
brocaded dress, (relieved by a black’s head, who 
carried two red and green parrots on a salver,) 
I worked till I could do no more;—to my father’s 
extreme amazement and disgust, when I brought 
the petticoat, parrots, and blackamoor, home, as 
the best fruit of my summer at the Court of 
Sardinia; together with one lurid thunder-storm 
on the Rosa Alps, another on the Cenis, and a 
dream or two of mist on the Viso. But I never 
could make out the set of the rocks on the peak 
of Viso; and after I had spent about a hundred 
pounds at Turin in grapes, partridges, and the 
opera, my mother sent me five, to make my 
peace with Heaven in a gift to the Vaudois 

33 









34 


II. MONT VELAN. 


churches. So I went and passed a Sunday be¬ 
neath Viso; found he had neither rocks nor 
glaciers worth mentioning, and that I couldn’t 
get into any pleasant confidences with the shep¬ 
herds, because their dogs barked and snarled 
irreconcileably, and seemed to have nothing 
taught them by their masters but to regard all 
the rest of mankind as thieves. 

I had some pious talk of a mild kind with the 
person I gave my mother’s five pounds to: but 
an infinitely pleasanter feeling from the gratitude 
of the overworn ballerina at Turin, for the gift 
of as many of my own. She was not the least 
pretty; and depended precariously on keeping 
able for her work on small pittance; but did 
that work well always; and looked nice,—near 
the footlights. 

I noticed also curiously at this time, that 
while the drawings I did to please myself seemed 
to please nobody else, the little pen-and-ink 
sketches made for my father, merely to explain 
where I was, came always well;—one, of the sun¬ 
set shining down a long street through a grove 
of bayonets, which he was to imagine moving to 
military music, is pleasant to me yet. But, on 
the whole, Turin began at last to bore me as 
much as Bellinzona; so I thought it might be as 
well to get home. I drove to Susa on the last 
day of August, walked quietly with Couttet over 



IT. MONT NTZLAN. 


35 


theCenis to Lans-le-bourg next day; and on 2nd 
September sent my mother my love, by telegram* 
for breakfast-time, on her birthday, getting an¬ 
swer of thanks back before twelve o’clock; and 
began to think there might be something in tele¬ 
graphs, after all. 

A number of unpleasant convictions were 
thus driven into my head, in that 1858 journey, 
like Jael’s nail through Sisera’s temples; or Tin- 
toret’s arrow between St. Sebastian’s eyes:—I 
must return a moment to Mr. Maurice and 
Deborah before going on to pleasanter matters. 
Maurice was not, I suppose, in the habit of keep¬ 
ing a skull on his chimney-piece, and looking at 
it before he went to sleep, as I had been, for a 
long while before that talk; or he would have 
felt that whether it was by nail, bullet, or little 
pin, mattered little when it was ordained that 
the crowned forehead should sink in slumber. 
And he would have known that [Jael was only 
one of the forms of “ Dira Necessitas ”—she, 
Delilah, and Judith, all the three of them;* only 
we haven’t any record of Delilah’s hymn when 
she first fastened Samson’s hair to the beam: 
and of Judith, nobody says any harm;—I sup¬ 
pose because she gave Holofernes wine, instead 
of milk and butter. It was Byron, however, not 
Deborah, who made ?ne understand the thing;, 
the passage he paraphrased from her, in the 





II. MONT VELAN. 


3<5 

Giaour, having rung in my ears ever since I 
wrote the Scythian banquet-song— 

‘ c The drowsy camel-bells are tinkling. 

His mother looked from her lattice high/' etc. 

And. I felt now that I had myself driven nails 
enough into my mother’s heart, if not into my 
father’s coffin; and would thankfully have taken 
her home a shawl of divers colours on both sides, 
and a pretty damsel or two, in imitation of 
Sisera: but she always liked to choose her dam¬ 
sels for herself. 

It was lucky, in her last choosing, she chanced 
on Joan Agnew; but we are a far way yet from 
Joanie’s time, I don’t quite know how far. 
Turner died, as I said, in 1851: Prout had left 
us still earlier; there could be no more sharing 
of festivities on my birthday with him. He went 
home to De-Crespigny Terrace from Denmark 
Hill one evening, seeming perfectly well and 
happy;—and we saw him no more. 

And my dog Wisie, was he dead too? It 
seems wholly wonderful to me at this moment 
that he should ever have died. He was a white 
spitz, exactly like Carpaccio’s dog in the picture 
of St. Jerome; and he came to me from a young 
Austrian officer, who had got tired of him,—the 
Count Thun, who fell afterwards at Solferino. 
Before the dog was used enough to us, George 
and I took him to Lido to give him a little sea 




II. MONT VELAN. 


37 


bath. George was holding him by his fore-paws 
upright among the little crisp breakers. Wisie 
snatched them out of his hands, and ran at full 
speed—into If airy land, like Frederick the Great 
at Mollwitz. He was lost on Lido for three 
days and nights, living by petty larceny, the 
fishermen and cottagers doing all they could to 
catch him; but they told me he “ ran like a hare 
and leaped like a horse/’ 

At last, either overcome by hunger, or having 
made up his mind that even, my service was 
preferable to liberty on Lido, he took the deep 
water in broad daylight, and swam straight for 
Venice. A fisherman saw him from a distance, 
rowed after him, took him, tired among the 
weeds, and brought him to me-—the Madonna 
della Salute having been propitious to his re¬ 
pentant striving with the sea. 

From that time he became an obedient and 
affectionate dog, though of extremely self-willed 
and self-possessed character. I was then living 
on the north side of St. Mark's Place, and he 
used to sit outside the window on the ledge at 
the base of its pillars greater part of the day, ob¬ 
servant of the manners and customs of Venice. 
Returning to England, I took him over the St. 
Gothard, but found him entirely unappalled by 
any of the work of Devils on it—big or little. 
He saw nothing to trouble himself about in 


38 


II. MONT VELAN. 


precipices, if they were wide enough to put his 
paws on; and the dog who had fled madly from 
a crisp sea wave, trotted beside the fall of the 
Reuss just as if it had been another White Dog, 
•a little bigger, created out of foam. 

Reaching Paris, he considered it incumbent 
upon him to appear unconscious of the existence 
of that city, or of the Tuileries gardens and Rue 
Rivoli, since they were not St. Mark’s Place;— 
but, half asleep one evening, on a sofa in the en¬ 
tresol at Meurice’s, and hearing a bark in the 
street which sounded Venetian,—sprang through 
the window in expectation of finding himself 
on the usual ledge—and fell fifteen feet* to the 
pavement. As I ran down, I met him rushing 
up the hotel stairs (he had gathered himself 
from the stones in an instant), bleeding and 
giddy; he staggered round and round two or 
three times, and fell helpless on the floor. I 
don’t know if young ladies’ dogs faint, really, 
when they are hurt. He, Wisie, did not faint, 
nor even moan, but he could not stir, except in 
cramped starts and shivers. I sent for what 
veterinary help was within reach, and heard that 
the dog might recover, if he could be kept quiet 
for a day or two in a dog-hospital. But my 

* Thirteen feet nine, I find, on exact measurement— 
coming back to Meurice’s to make sure. It is the height 
of the capitals of the piers in the Rue Rivoli. 




II. MONT VELAN. 


39 


omnibus was at the door—for the London train. 
In the very turn and niche of time I heard that 
Macdonald of St. Martin’s was in the hotel, and 
would take charge of Wisie for the time neces¬ 
sary. The poor little speechless, luckless, wist¬ 
fully gazing doggie was tenderly put in a pretty 
basket (going to be taken where ? thinks the 
beating heart), looks at his master to read what 
he can in the sad face—can make out nothing; 
is hurried out of the inexorable door, downstairs; 
finds himself more nearly dead next day, and 
among strangers. (Two miles away from Meu- 
rice’s, along the Boulevard, it was.) 

He takes and keeps council with himself on 
that matter. Drinks and eats what he is given, 
gratefully; swallows his medicine obediently; 
stretches his limbs from time to time. There 
was only a wicket gate, he saw, between the 
Boulevard and him. Silently, in the early dawn 
of the fourth or fifth day—I think—he leaped 
it, and along two miles of Parisian Boulevard 
came back to Meurice’s. 

I do not believe there was ever a more won¬ 
derful piece of instinct certified. For Macdon¬ 
ald received him, in astonishment,—and Wisie 
trusted Macdonald to bring him to his lost mas¬ 
ter again. The Schehallien chief brought him 
to Denmark Hill; where of course Wisie did 
not know whether something still worse might 





40 


II. MONT VELAN. 


not befall him, or whether he would be allowed 
to stay. But he was allowed, and became a 
bright part of my mother’s day, as well as of 
mine, from 1852 to 1858, or perhaps longer. But 
I must go back now to 1854-6. 

1854. The success of the first volume of 
“ Modern Painters” of course gave me entrance 
to the polite circles of London; but at that 
time, even more than now, it was a mere tor¬ 
ment and horror to me to have to talk to big 
people whom I didn’t care about. Sometimes, 
indeed, an incident happened that was amusing 
or useful to me;—I heard Macaulay spout the 
first chapter of Isaiah, without understanding a 
syllable of it;—saw the Bishop of Oxford taught 
by Sir Robert Inglis to drink sherry-cobbler 
through a straw;—and formed one of the wor¬ 
shipful concourse invited by the Bunsen family, 
to hear them “ talk Bunsenese” (Lady Trevelyan), 
and see them making presents to—each other— 
from their .family Christmas tree, and private 
manger of German Magi. But, as a rule, the 
hours given to the polite circles were an angering 
penance to me,—until, after I don’t know how 
many, a good chance came, worth all the peni¬ 
tentiary time endured before. 

I had been introduced one evening, with a 
little more circumstance than usual, to a seated 
lady, beside whom it was evidently supposed I 






II. MONT VELAN 


41 


should hold it a privilege to stand for a minute 
or two, with leave to speak to her. I entirely 
concurred in that view of the matter; but, hav¬ 
ing ascertained in a moment that she was too 
pretty to be looked at, and yet keep one’s wits 
about one, I followed, in what talk she led me 
to, with my eyes on the ground. Presently, in 
some reference to Raphael or Michael Angelo, 
or the musical glasses, the word “ Rome” oc¬ 
curred; and a minute afterwards, something 
about “Christmas in 1840.” I looked up with 
a start; and saw that the face was oval,—-fair,-— 
the hair, light brown. After a pause, I was rude 
enough to repeat her words, “ Christmas in 1840! 
—were you in Rome then?” “Yes,” she said, 
a little surprised, and now meeting my eyes with 
hers, inquiringly. 

Another tenth of a minute passed before I 
spoke again. 

“ Why, I lost all that winter in Rome in hunt¬ 
ing you ! ” 

It was Egeria herself! then Mrs. Cowper- 
Temple. She was not angry; and became from 
that time forward a tutelary power,—of the 
brightest and happiest; differing from Lady 
Trevelyan’s, in that Lady Trevelyan hadn’t all 
her own way at home; and taught me, therefore, 
to look upon life as a “ Spiritual combat;” but 
Egeria always had her own way everywhere — 




42 


II. MONT VELAN. 


thought that I also should have mine,—and gen¬ 
erally got it for me. 

She was able to get a good deal of it for me, 
almost immediately, at Broadlands, because Mr. 
Cowper-Temple was at that time Lord Palmer¬ 
ston’s private secretary: and it had chanced 
that in 1845 I had some correspondence with 
the government about Tintoret’s Crucifixion;— 
not the great Crucifixion in the Scuola di San 
Rocco, but the bright one with the grove of lances 
in the Church of St. Cassan, which I wanted to 
get for the National Gallery. I wrote to Lord 
Palmerston about it, and believe we should have 
got it, but for Mr. Edward Cheney's putting a 
spoke in the wheel for pure spite. However, Lord 
Palmerston was, I believe, satisfied with what 
I had done; and, now perhaps thinking there 
might be some trustworthy official qualities in me, 
allowed Mr. Cowper-Temple to bring me, one 
Saturday evening, to go down with him to Broad¬ 
lands. It was dark when we reached the South- 
Western station. Lord Palmerston received me 
much as Lord Oldborough receives Mr. Temple 
in “Patronage;”—gave me the seat opposite 
his own, he with his back to the engine. Mr. 
Cowper-Temple beside me;—Lord Palmerston’s 
box of business papers on the seat beside him. 
He unlocked it, and looked over a few,—said 
some hospitable words, enough to put me at ease, 



II. MONT VELAN. 


43 


and went to sleep, or at least remained quiet, 
till we got to Romsey. I forget the dinner, that 
Saturday; but I certainly had to take in Lady 
Palmerston; and must have pleased her more.or 
less, for on the Sunday morning, LorPalmer¬ 
ston took me himself to the service in Romsey 
Abbey : drawing me out a little in the drive 
through the village; and that day at dinner he 
put me on his right hand, and led the conversa¬ 
tion distinctly to the wildest political theories I 
was credited with,* cross-examining me playfully, 
but attending quite seriously to my points; and 
kindly and clearly showing me where I should 
fail, in practice. He disputed no principle with 
me (being, I fancied, partly of the same mind 
with me about principles), but only feasibilities; 
whereas in every talk permitted me more recent¬ 
ly by Mr. Gladstone, he disputes all the princi¬ 
ples before their application; and the applica¬ 
tion of all that get past the dispute. D’Israeli 
•differed from both in making a jest alike of prin- 

* The reader will please remember that the “ Life of 
the Workman ” in the “ Stones of Venice/' the long note 
on Education at the end of first volume of “ Modern 
Painters," and the fierce vituperation of the Renaissance 
schools in all my historical teaching, were at this time 
attracting far more attention, because part of my archi¬ 
tectural and pictorial work, than ever afterwards the com¬ 
mercial and social analyses of “ Unto This Last." 







44 


II. MONT VELAN. 


ciple and practice; but I never came into full 
collision with him but once. It is a long story, 
about little matters; but they had more influence- 
in the end than many greater ones,—so I will 
write them. 

I never went to official dinners in Oxford if I 
could help it; not that I was ever really wanted 
at them, but sometimes it became my duty to go, 
as an Art Professor; and when the Princess of 
Wales came, one winter, to look over the Art 
Galleries, I had of course to attend, and be of 
what use I could: and then came commands to 
the dinner at the Deanery,—where I knew no' 
more how to behave than a marmot pup ! How¬ 
ever, my place was next but one to D’Israeli’s, 
whose head, seen close, interested me; the Prin¬ 
cess, in the centre of the opposite side of the 
table, might be glanced at now and then,—to 
the forgetfulness of the evils of life. Nobody 
wanted me to talk about anything; and I re¬ 
covered peace of mind enough, in a little while, 
to hear D’Israeli talk, which was nice; I think 
we even said something to each other, once,, 
about the salmon. Well,—then, presently I was 
aware of a little ripple of brighter converse going 
Around the table, and saw it had got at the Prin¬ 
cess, and a glance of D’Israeli’s made me think 
it must have something to do with me. And so- 
it had, thus:—It had chanced either the day 




II. MONT VELAN . 


45 


"before, or the day before that, that the Planet 
Saturn had treated me with his usual adversity in 
the carrying out of a plot with Alice in Wonder¬ 
land. For, that evening, the dean and Mrs. 
Liddell dined by command at Blenheim: but the 
girls were not commanded; and as I had been 
complaining of never getting a sight of them 
lately, after knowing them from the nursery, 
Alice said that she thought, perhaps, if I 
would come round after papa and mamma were 
safe off to Blenheim, Edith and she might give 
me a cup of tea and a little singing, and Rhoda 
show me how she was getting on with her drawing 
and geometry, or the like. And so it was 
arranged. The night was wild with snow, and 
no one likely to come round to the Deanery 
after dark. I think Alice must have sent me a 
little note, when the eastern coast of Tom Quad 
was clear. I slipped round from Corpus through 
Peckwater, shook the snow off my gown, and 
found an armchair ready for me, and a bright 
fireside, and a laugh or two, and some pretty 
music looked out, and tea coming up. 

Well, I think Edith had got the tea made, and 
Alice was just bringing the muffins to perfection 
—I don’t recollect that Rhoda was there; (I 
never did, that anybody else was there, if Edith 
was; but it is all so like a dream now, I’m not 
sure)—when there was a sudden sense of some 


46 


II. MONT VELAN. 


stars having been blown out by the wind, round 
the corner; and then a crushing of the snow out¬ 
side the house, and a drifting of it inside; and 
the children all scampered out to see what was 
wrong, and I followed slowly;—and there were 
the Dean and Mrs. Liddell standing just in the 
middle of the hall, and the footmen in conster¬ 
nation, and a silence,—and— 

“ How sorry you must be to see us, Mr. Rus- 
kin!” began at last Mrs. Liddell. 

“I never was more so,” I replied. “ But 
what’s the matter?” 

“Well,” said the Dean, “we couldn’t even get 
past the parks; the snow’s a fathom deep in the 
Woodstock Road. But never mind; we’ll be 
very good and quiet, and keep out of the way. 
Go back to your tea, and we’ll have our dinner 
downstairs.” 

And so we did; but we couldn’t keep papa 
and mamma out of the drawing-room when they 
had done dinner, and I went back to Corpus, 
disconsolate. 

Now, whether the Dean told the Princess him¬ 
self, or whether Mrs. Liddell told, or the girls 
themselves, somehow this story got all round the 
dinner table, and D'Israeii was perfect in every 
detail, in ten minutes, nobody knew how. 'When 
the Princess rose, there was clearly a feeling on 
her part of some kindness to me; and she came 


II. MONT VELAN. 


4 7 


very soon, in the drawing-room, to receive the 
report of the Slade Professor. 

Now, in the Deanery drawing-room, everybody 
in Oxford who hadn’t been at the dinner was 
waiting to have their slice of Princess—due offi¬ 
cially—and to be certified in the papers next day. 
The Princess,—knowing whom she had to speak 
to ,—might speak to, or mightn’t, without setting 
the whole of Oxford by the ears next day, sim¬ 
ply walked to the people she chose to honour 
with audience, and stopped, to hear if they had 
anything to say. I saw my turn had come, and 
the revolving zodiac brought its fairest sign to 
me: she paused, and the attendant stars and ter¬ 
restrial beings round, listened, to hear what the 
marmot-pup had to say for itself. 

In the space of, say, a minute and a half, I 
told the Princess that Landscape-painting had 
been little cultivated by the Heads of Colleges,. 
—that it had been still less cultivated by the 
Undergraduates, and that my young-lady pupils 
always expected me to teach them how to paint 
like Turner, in six lessons. Finding myself get¬ 
ting into difficulties, I stopped: the Princess, I 
suppose, felt I was getting her into difficulties 
too; so she bowed courteously, and went on—to 
the next Professor, in silence. 

The crowd, which had expected a compliment 
to Her Royal Highness of-best Modern Painter 





48 


II. MONT VELAN. 


quality, was extremely disappointed: and a blank 
space seemed at once to form itself round me, 
when the door from the nurseries opened; and 
—enter Rhoda—in full dress! 

Very beautiful! But just a snip too short in 
the petticoats,—a trip too dainty in the ankles, 
a dip too deep of sweetbriar-red in the ribands. 
Not the damsel who came to hearken, named 
Rhoda,—by any means;—but as exquisite a little 
spray of rhododendron ferrugineum as ever spark¬ 
led in Alpine dew. 

DTsraeli saw his opening in an instant. Draw¬ 
ing himself to his full height, he advanced to 
meet Rhoda. The whole room became all eyes 
and ears. Bowing with kindly reverence, he 
waved his hand, and introduced her to—the 
world. “ 'This is, I understand, the young lady 
in whose art-education Professor Ruskin is so 
d.eeply interested!” 

And there was nothing for me but simple ex¬ 
tinction; for I had never given Rhoda a lesson 
in my life (no such luck!); yet I could not dis¬ 
claim the interest,—nor disown Mr. Macdon¬ 
ald’s geometry! I could only bow as well as a 
marmot might, in imitation of the Minister; and 
get at once away to Corpus, out of human ken. 

This gossip has beguiled me till I have no 
time left to tell what in proper sequence should 
have been chiefly dwelt on in this number,—the 




II. MONT VELAN. 


49 


effect on my mind of the Hospice of St. Bernard* 
as opposed to the Hermitage of St. Bruno. I 
must pass at once to the outline of some scenes 
in early Swiss history, of which the reader must 
be reminded before he can understand why I 
had set my heart so earnestly upon drawing the 
ruined towers of Fribourg, Thun, and Rheinfel- 
den. 

In the mountain kingdom of which I claimed 
possession by the law of love, in first seeing it 
from the Col de la Faucille, the ranges of en¬ 
tirely celestial mountain, the “ everlasting clouds’" 
whose glory does not fade, are arranged in clus¬ 
ters of summits definitely distinct in form, and 
always recognizable, each in its own beauty, by 
any careful observer who has once seen them oil 
the south and north. Of these, the most beau¬ 
tiful in Switzerland, and as far as I can read, or 
learn, the most beautiful mountain in the world, 
is the Jungfrau of Lauterbrunnen. Next to- 
her, the double peaks of the Wetterhorn and 
Wellhorn, with their glacier of Rosenlaui; next 
to these, the Aiguille de Bionnassay, the but¬ 
tress of Mont Blanc on the south-west; and 
after these loveliest, the various summits of the 
Bernese, Chamouni, and Zermatt Alps, accord¬ 
ing to their relative power, and the advantage of 
their place for the general observer. Thus the 
Blumlis Alp, though only ten thousand feet high* 





//. MONT VELAN. 


50 

has far greater general influence than the Mont 
Combin, which is nearly as high as Mont Blanc, 
but can only be seen with difficulty, and in no 
association with the lowlands. 

Among subordinate peaks, five,—the Tour- 
nette of Annecy, the Dent du Midi of Bex, the 
Stockhorn, south of Thun, Mont Pilate at Lu¬ 
cerne, and the High Sentis of Appenzell,—are 
notable as out-lying masses, of extreme impor¬ 
tance in their effect on the approaches to the 
greater chain. But in that chain itself, no moun¬ 
tain of subordinate magnitude can assert any 
xivalship with Mont Velan, the ruling alp of the 
Great St. Bernard. 

For Mont Velan signals down the valley of 
the Rhone, past St. Maurice, to Vevay, the line 
of the true natural pass of the Great St. Bernard, 
from France into Italy by the valley of Martigny 
and Val d’Aosta; a perfectly easy and accessible 
pass for horse and foot, through all the summer; 
not dangerous even in winter, except in storm; 
and from the earliest ages, down to Napoleon’s, 
the pass chosen by the greatest kings, and wisest 
missionaries. The defiles of the Simplon were 
still impassable in the twelfth century, and the 
Episcopate of the Valais was therefore an iso¬ 
lated territory branching up from Martigny; un¬ 
assailable from above, but in connection with the 
Monastery of St. Bernard and Abbey of St. 




II. MONT VELAN. SI 

Maurice, holding alike Burgundian, Swiss, and 
Saracen powers at bay, beyond the Castle of 
Chillon. 

And I must remind the reader that at the time 
when Swiss history opens, there was no such 
country as France, in her existing strength. 
There was a sacred “Isle of France,” and a 
group of cities,—Amiens, Paris, Soissons, Rheims, 
Chartres, Sens, and Troyes,—essentially French, 
in arts, and faith. But round this Frank central 
province lay Picardy, Normandy, Brittany, Anjou, 
Aquitaine, Languedoc, and Provence, all of them 
independent national powers: and on the east of 
the Cote d’Or,* the strong and true hiiig&om of 
Burgundy, which for centuries contended with 
Germany for the dominion of Switzerland, and, 
from her Alpine throne, of Europe. 

This was, I have said, at the time “ when 
Swiss history opens ”—as sack. It opens a cen¬ 
tury earlier, in 773, as a part of all Christian 
history, when Charlemagne convoked his Franks 
at Geneva to invade Italy, and dividing them 
there into two bodies, placed Swiss mountaineers 
at the head of each, and sending one division by 
the Great St. Bernard, under his own uncle, Ber- 


* The eastern boundary of France proper is formed by 
the masses of the Vosges, Cote d’Or, and Monts de la 
Madeleine. 





II. MONT VELAN. 


52 

nard,* the son of Charles Martel, led the other 
himself over the Cenis. It was for this march 
over the Great St. Bernard that Charlemagne is 
said to have given the foresters of the central 
Alps their three trumpets—the Bull of Uri, the 
Cow of Unterwald, and the horn of Lucerne; 
and, without question, after his Italian victories, 
Switzerland became the organic centre of civili¬ 
sation to his whole empire. “ It is thus,” says 
M. Gaullieur, “ that the heroic history of old 
Zurich, and the annals of Thurgovie and Rhetie, 
are full of the memorable acts of the Emperor 
of the West, and among other traditions the foun¬ 
dation of the Water-church (Wasser-kirche), at 
Zurich, attaches itself to the sight of a marvel¬ 
lous serpent, who came to ask justice of the 
Emperor, in a place where he gave it to all his 
subjects, by the Limmat shore.” 

I pause here a moment to note that there used 
to be indeed harmless water serpents in the Swiss 
waters, when perfectly pure. I myself saw those 
of the Lac de Chede, in the year 1833, and had 
one of them drawn out of the water by the char- 
a-banc driver with his whip, that I might see the 
yellow ring round its neck. The colour of the 


* Don’t confuse hbn with St. Bernard of Annecy, from 
whom the pass is named; nor St. Bernard of Annecy with 
St. Bernard of Dijon, the Madonna’s chosen servant. 





II. MONT VELAN. 


53 


body was dark green. If the reader will com¬ 
pare the account given in “ Eagle’s Nest” of one 
of the serpents of the Giesbach, he will under¬ 
stand at once how easily the myths of antiquity 
would attach themselves among the Alps, as 
much to the living serpent as to the living eagle. 

Also, let the reader note that the beryl -coloured 
water of the Lake of Zurich and the Limmat 
gave, in old days, the perfectest type of purity, 
of all the Alpine streams. The deeper blue of the 
Reuss and Rhone grew dark at less depth, and 
always gave some idea of the presence of a min¬ 
eral element, causing the colour; while the Aar 
had soiled itself with clay even before reaching 
Berne. But the pale aquamarine crystal of the 
Lake of Zurich, with the fish set in it, some score 
of them—small and great—to a cube fathom, and 
the rapid fall and stainless ripple of the Lim¬ 
mat, through the whole of its course under the 
rocks of Baden to the Reuss, remained, summer 
and winter, of a constant, sacred, inviolable, 
supernatural loveliness. 

By the shore of the Limmat then, sate Charle¬ 
magne to do justice, as Canute by the sea:—the 
first “ Water church” of the beginning river is 
his building; and never was St. Jerome’s render¬ 
ing of the twenty-third Psalm sung in any church 
more truly: “ In loco pascue, ibi collocavit me, 
super aquam refectionis cducavit .” But the Ca- 



54 


II, MONT VELAN. 


thedral Minster of Zurich dates from days no 
longer questionable or fabulous. 

During the first years of the tenth century, 
Switzerland was disputed between Rodolph II., 
King of Burgundy, and Bourcard, Duke of 
Swabia. The German duke at last defeated 
Rodolph, near Winterthur; but with so much 
difficulty, that he chose rather thenceforward to 
have him for ally rather than enemy; and gave 
him, for pledge of peace, his daughter Bertha, 
to be Burgundian queen. 

•Bertha, the daughter of the Duke of Bourcard 
and Regilinda, was at this time only thirteen or 
fourteen. The marriage was not celebrated till 
921,—and let the reader remember that marriage, 
—though there was no Wedding March played 
at it, but many a wedding prayer said,—for the 
beginning of all happiness to Burgundy , Switzer - 
land) and Germany. Her husband, in the first 
ten years after their marriage, in alliance with 
Henry the Fowler of Germany, drove the Sara¬ 
cen and Hungarian nomad armies out of the 
Alps: and then Bertha set herself to efface the 
traces of their ravages; building, everywhere 
through her territories, castles, monasteries, 
walled towns, and towers of refuge; restoring the 
town and church of Soleure in 930, of Moutiers 
in the Jura, in 932; in the same year endowing 
the canons of Amsoldingen at Thun, and then 



II. MONT VELAN. 


55 


the church of Neuchatel; finally, towards 935, 
the church and convent of Zurich, of which her 
mother Regilinda became abbess in 949, and re¬ 
mained abbess till her death;—the Queen Bertha 
herself residing chiefly near her, in a tower on 
Mont Albis. 

In 950 Bertha had to mourn the death of her 
son-in-law Lothaire, and the imprisonment of 
her daughter Adelaide on the Lake of (larda. 
But Otho the Great, of Germany, avenged 
Lothaire, drove Berenger out of Italy, and him¬ 
self married Adelaide, reinstating Conrad of 
Burgundy on the throne of Burgundy and Switz¬ 
erland: and then Bertha, strong at once under 
the protection of the king her son, and the em¬ 
peror her son-in-law, and with her mother be¬ 
side her, Abbess of the Convent des Dames 
Nobles of Zurich, began her work of perfect 
beneficence to the whole of Switzerland. 

In the summer times, spinning from her distaff 
as she rode, she traversed—the legends say, with 
only a country guide to lead her horse, (when 
such a queen’s horse would need leading!)—all 
the now peaceful fields of her wide dominion, 
from Jura to the Alps. My own notion is that 
an Anne-of-Geierstein-like maid of honour or 
two must have gleamed here and there up and 
down the hills beside her; and a couple of old 
knights, perhaps, followed at their own pace. 




56 


II. MONT VELAN. 


Howsoever, the queen verily did know her peas¬ 
ants, and their cottages and fields, from Zurich 
to Geneva, and ministered to them for full twelve 
years. 

In 962, her son Conrad gave authority almost 
monarchic, to her Abbey of Payerne, which 
could strike a coinage of its own. Not much 
after that time, her cousin Ulrich, Bishop of 
Strasbourg, came to visit her; and with him 
and the king her son, she revisited all the re¬ 
ligious institutions she had founded, and finally, 
with them both, consecrated the Church of 
Neuchatel to the Virgin. The Monastery of the 
Great St. Bernard was founded at the same time. 

I cannot find the year of her death, but her 
son Conrad died in 993, and was buried beside 
his mother at Payerne. 

And during the whole of the nth century, 
and more than half of the 12th, the power of 
Bertha’s institutions, and of the Church gener¬ 
ally, increased in Switzerland; but gradually 
corrupted by its wealth of territory into a feudal 
hierarchy, against which, together with that of 
the nobles who were always at war with each 
other, Duke Berthold IV., of Zsehringen, under¬ 
took, in 1178, the founding of Fribourg in 
Uchtland. 

The culminating point of the new city above' 
the scarped rocks which border the Sarine (on 




II. MONT VELAN . 


57 


the eastern bank?) was occupied by the Chateau 
de Tyr (Tyrensis), ancient home of the Counts 
of that country, and cradle, it is believed, of the 
house of Thierstein. Berthold called his new 
town Freyburg, as well as that which existed al¬ 
ready in his states of Breisgau, because he 
granted it in effect the same liberties, the same 
franchises, and the same communal charter 
(Handfeste) which had been given to the other 
Fribourg. A territory of nine leagues in circum¬ 
ference was given to Fribourg in Uchtland, a 
piece which they still call “ the old lands.” 
Part of the new colonists came from Breisgau, 
Black Forest people; part from the Roman Pays 
de Vaud. The Germans lived in the valley, the 
others on the heights. Built on the confines of 
France and Germany, Fribourg served for the 
point of contact to two nations until then hos¬ 
tile ; and the Handfeste of Fribourg served for 
a model to all the municipal constitutions of 
Switzerland. Still, at this day, the town is di¬ 
vided into two parts, and into two languages. 

This was in 1178. Twelve years later, Ber¬ 
thold V., the greatest and the best of the Dukes 
of Zcehringen, made, of the village of Burgdorf 
in the Emmenthal, the town of Berthoud, the 
name given probably from his own; and then, 
in the year 1191, laid the foundations of the 
town of Berne. 


53 


II. MONT VELAN. 


He chose for its site a spot in the royal do¬ 
main, for he intended the new city to be called 
the Imperial city; and the place he chose was 
near a manor which had served in the preced¬ 
ing century for occasional residence to the 
Rodolphian kings. It was a long high promon¬ 
tory, nearly an island, whose cliff sides were 
washed by the Aar. The Duke of Zsehringen’s 
Marshal, Cuno of Babenberg, received orders to 
surround with walls the little island on which 
stood the simple hamlet of Berne, now become 
the powerful city of Berne, praiseworthy at first 
in the democratic spirit of its bourgeois, and 
afterwards in its aristocracy, whose policy, at 
once elevated, firm, consistent, and ambitious, 
mingled itself in all the great affairs of the 
neighbouring countries, and became a true 
power, upon which the sovereigns of the first 
order had sometimes to count. 

Lastly, Berthold built the Castle of Thun, 
where the Aar issues out of its lake; castle 
which, as may be seen at the present day, com¬ 
manded the whole level plain, opening to Berne, 
and the pass into the Oberland. 

Thus the three towns Fribourg, Berne, and 
Thun, form, at the close of the twelfth century, 
the triple fortress of the Dukes of Zsehringen, 
strengthened by a body of burghers to whom the 
Dukes have granted privileges till then unknown; 





//. MONT VELAN. 


59 


this Ducal and Civic allied power asserting 
itself in entire command of Switzerland proper, 
against the Counts of Savoy in the south, the 
Burgundian princes in the east, and the ecclesi¬ 
astical power of Italy, vested in the Bishops of 
Sion, in the Valais,—thence extending from the 
mouth of the Rhone into the Pays de Vaud, and 
enthroned there at Payerne by the bequests of 
Queen Bertha. The monks of her royal abbey 
at Payerne, seeing that all the rights they pos¬ 
sessed over the Pays de Vaud were endangered 
by the existence of Fribourg, opposed the build¬ 
ing of the Church of St. Nicholas there, assert¬ 
ing that the ground assigned to it and its mon¬ 
astery belonged to the Abbey of Payerne. 
Berthold IV. was on the point of attacking the 
monks on their own rock when the nobles of 
the Vaud interfered, as mediators. 

Four of them—Ame, Count of Geneva, 
Vauthier of Blonay, Conrad of Estaveyer, and 
Rodolph of Montagny—compelled Berthold to 
ratify the privileges, and resign the lands, of the 
monks of Payerne, by a deed signed in 1178; the 
church and monastery of St. Nicholas being 
founded at Fribourg under their rule. And this 
constitution of Fribourg, whether the Dukes of 
Zadiringen foresaw it or not, became the fecund 
germ of a new social order. The “ Commune ” 
was the origin of the “ Canton,” “ and the be- 


6o 


77 . MONT VELAN 


neficent aera of communal liberty served for- 
achemmement to the constitutional liberties and 
legislative codes of modern society.” 

Thus far M. Gaullieur, from whose widow I 
leased my own chalet at Mornex, and whose son 
I instructed, to the best of my power, in clear¬ 
ing land of useless stones on the slope of the 
Saleve,—under the ruins of the old Chateau de 
Savoie, the central castle, once, of all Savoy; on 
the site of which, and summit of its conical hill- 
throne, seated himself, in his pleasure villa, all 
the summer long, my very dear friend and 
physician, old Dr. Gosse of Geneva; whose 
mountain garden, about three hundred feet 
above mine, was indeed enclosed by the remain¬ 
ing walls and angle towers of the Castle of Sa¬ 
voy, of which the Doctor had repaired the low¬ 
est tower 50 as to serve for a reservoir to the 
rain rushing down the steep garden slopes in 
storm,—and to let none of it be wasted after¬ 
wards in the golden Saleve sunshine. 

“ C’etait une tour de guerre,” said the Doctor 
to me triumphantly, as he first led me round the 
confines of his estate. “Voyez. C’etait une 
tour de guerre. J’en ai fait une bouteille!” 

But that walk by the castle wall was long after 
the Mont Velan times of which I am now tell¬ 
ing;—in returning to which, will the reader 
please note the homes of the four Vaudois 




II : MONT VELAN. 


6r 


knights who stood for Queen Bertha’s monas¬ 
tery: Ame of Geneva, Vauthier of Blonay, Con¬ 
rad of Estaveyer, and Rodolph of Montagny? 

Arne’s castle of Geneva stood on the island,, 
where the clock tower is now; and has long 
been destroyed: of Estaveyer and Montagny I 
know nothing; but the Castle of Blonay still 
stands above Vevay, as Chillon still at the head 
of her lake; but the chateau of Blonay has 
been modified gradually into comfort of sweet 
habitation, the war towers of it sustaining tim¬ 
ber-latticed walls, and crowned by pretty turrets 
and pinnacles in cheerful nobleness—trellised 
all with fruitage or climbing flowers; its moats 
now all garden; its surrounding fields all lily and 
meadowsweet, with blue gleamings, it may be of 
violet, it may be of gentian; its heritage of 
human life guarded still in the peacefully scat¬ 
tered village, cr farmhouse, here and there half 
hidden in apple-blossom, or white with fallen 
cherry-blossom, as if with snow. 

I have already told how fond my father was 
of staying at the Trois Rois of Vevay, when I 
was up among the aiguilles of Chamouni. In 
later years, I acknowledged his better taste, and 
would contentedly stay with him at Vevay, as 
long as he liked,—myself always perfectly happy 
in the fields and on the hillsides round the 
Chateau Blonay. Also, my father and mother 




//. MONT VELAN 


'02 


were quite able at any time to get up as far as 
Blonay themselves; and usually walked so far 
with me when I was intent on the higher hills, 
—waiting, they, and our old servant, Lucy 
Tovey (whom we took abroad with us some¬ 
times that she might see the places we were 
.always talking of), until I had done my bit of 
drawing or hammering, and we all went down 
together, through the vineyards, to four o’clock 
dinner; then the evening was left free for me to 
study the Dent d’Oche and chains of crag de¬ 
clining southwards to Geneva, by sunset. 

Thus Vevay, year after year, became the 
most domestic of all our foreign homes. At 
Venice, my mother always thought the gondola 
would upset; at Chamouni, my father, that I 
should fall into the Mer de Glace; at Pisa, he 
would ask me, “ What shall I give the coach¬ 
man ?” and at Florence, dispute the delightful¬ 
ness of Cimabue. But at Vevay, we were all of 
a mind. My father was professionally at home 
in the vineyards,—sentimentally in the Bosquet 
de Julie; my mother liked apple orchards and 
narcissus meads as much as I did; and for me, 
there was the Dent du Midi, for eternal snow, in 
the distance; the Rochers de Naye, for climbing, 
accessibly near; Chillon for history and poetry; 
and the lake, in the whole breadth of it from 
Lausanne to Meillerie, for Turnerian mist effects 



II. J/OA r T VELAN. 


63 

of morning and Turnerian sunsets at evening; 
and moonlights,—as if the moon were one radi¬ 
ant glacier of frozen gold. Then if one wanted 
to go to Geneva for anything, there were little 
steamers,—no mortal would believe, now, how 
little; one used to be afraid an extra basket of 
apples would be too much for them, when the 
pier was full of market people. They called at 
all the places along the north shore, mostly for 
country folks; and often their little cabins were 
quite empty. English people thought the lake 
of Geneva too dull, if they had ever more than 
an hour of it. 

It chanced so, one day, when we were going 
from Vevay to Geneva. It was hot on the deck, 
and we all went down into the little cabin, 
which the waves from the paddle wheels rushed 
past the windows of, in lovely wild masses of 
green and silver. There was no one in the cabin 
but ourselves (that is to say, papa, mamma, old 
Anne, and me), and a family whom we supposed, 
rightly, to be American, of the best sort. A 
mother with three daughters, and her son,™ he 
in charge of them all, perhaps of five or six and 
twenty; his sisters younger; the mother just old 
enough to be their mother; all of them quietly 
and gracefully cheerful. There was the cabin 
table between us, covered with the usual Swiss 
news about nothing, and an old caricature book 



64 


II. MONT VELAN. 


or two. The waves went on rushing by; neither 
of the groups talked, but I noticed that from 
time to time the young American cast somewhat 
keen, though entirely courteous, looks of scrutiny 
at my father and mother. 

In a few minutes after I had begun to notice 
these looks, he rose, with the sweetest quiet 
smile I ever saw on any face (unless, perhaps, a 
nun’s, when she has some grave kindness to do), 
crossed to our side of the cabin, and addressing 
himself to my father, said, with a true expression 
of great gladness, and of frank trust that his joy 
would be understood, that he knew who we 
were, was most thankful to have met us, and 
that he prayed permission to introduce his 
mother and sisters to us. 

The bright eyes, the melodious voice, the per¬ 
fect manner, the simple, but acutely flattering, 
words, won my father in an instant. The New 
Englander sat down beside us, his mother and 
sisters seeming at once also to change the 
steamer’s cabin into a reception room in their 
own home. The rest of the time till we reached 
Geneva passed too quickly; we arranged to 
meet in a day or two again, at St. Martin’s. 

And thus I became possessed of my second 
friend, after Dr. John Brown; and of my first 
real tutor, Charles Eliot Norton. 





CHAPTER III. 
l’esterelle. 

Sallenches, Savoy, gth September , 1888. 

The meeting at St. Martin’s with Norton and 
his family was a very happy one. Entirely sen¬ 
sible and amiable, all of them; with the farther 
elasticity and acuteness of the American intel¬ 
lect, and no taint of American ways. Charles 
himself, a man of the highest natural gifts, in 
their kind; observant and critical rather than 
imaginative, but with an all-pervading sympathy 
and sensibility, absolutely free from envy, ambi¬ 
tion, or covetousness: * a scholar from his cradle, 
not only now a ?nan of the world, but a gentle¬ 
man of the world, whom the highest bom and 
best bred of every nation, from the Red Indian 

* 1 mean, covetousness of beautiful things, the only 
sort that is possible to people like Charles Norton or me. 
He gave me his best Greek “ Fortune,” a precious little 
piece of flying marble, with her feet on the world, en¬ 
graved with hexagonal tracery like a honeycomb. We 
both love its honey—but best, given by each other. 

65 





66 


III. L'ESTERELLE. 


to the White Austrian, would recognize in a mo¬ 
ment, as of their caste. 

In every branch of classical literature he was 
my superior; knew old English writers better 
than I,—much more, old French; and had act¬ 
ive fellowship and close friendship with the then 
really progressive leaders of thought in his own 
country, Longfellow, Lowell, and Emerson. 

All the sympathy, and all the critical subtlety, 
of his mind had been given, not only to the 
reading, but to the trial and following out of the 
whole theory of “ Modem Painters;” so that, as 
I said, it was a real joy for him to meet me, and 
a very bright and singular one for both of us, 
when I knocked at his door in the Hotel du 
Mont Blanc at five in the morning; and led him, 
as the roselight flushed the highest snow, up the 
winding path among the mountain meadows of 
Sallenches. 

I can see them at this moment, those moun¬ 
tain meadows, if I rise from my writing-table, 
and open the old barred valves of the corner 
window of the Hotel Bellevue;—yes, and there 
is the very path we climbed that day together, 
apparently unchanged. But on what seemed 
then the everlasting hills, beyond which the 
dawn rose cloudless, and on the heaven in which 
it rose, and on all that we that day knew, of 
human mind and virtue,—how great the change, 





III. VESTERELLE. 67 

and sorrowful, I cannot measure, and, in this 
place, I will not speak. 

That morning gave to me, I said, my first 
tutor;* for Dr. John Brown, however far above 
me in general power, and in the knowledge prop¬ 
er to his own profession, yet in the simplicity of 
his affection liked everything I wrote, for what 
was true in it, however imperfectly or faultfully 
expressed: but Norton saw all my weaknesses, 
measured all my narrownesses, and, from the 
first, took serenely, and as it seemed of necessity, 
a kind of paternal authority over me, and a right 
of guidance;—though the younger of the two,— 
and always admitting my full power in its own 
kind; nor only admitting, but in the prettiest 
way praising and stimulating. It was almost 
impossible for him to speak to any one he cared 
for, without some side-flash of witty compliment; 
and to me, his infinitely varied and loving praise 
became a constant motive to exertion, and aid 
in effort: yet he never allowed me in the slight¬ 
est violation of the laws, either of good writing, 
or social prudence, without instant blame, or 
warning. 

I was entirely conscious of his rectorial power, 
and affectionately submissive to it; so that he 

* Gordon was only my master in Greek, and in com¬ 
mon sense; he never criticized my books, and, I suppose, 
rarely read them. 


68 


III . L'ESTERELLE. 


might have done anything with me, but for the 
unhappy difference in our innate, and unchange¬ 
able, political faiths. 

Since that day at Sallenches it has become a 
matter of the most curious speculation to me, 
what sort of soul Charles Norton would have be¬ 
come, if he had had the blessing to be born an 
English Tory, or a Scotch Jacobite, or a French 
Gentilhomme, or a Savoyard Count. I think I 
should have liked him best to have been a Savoy¬ 
ard Count; say, Lord of the very Tower of 
Sallenches, a quarter of a mile above me at the 
opening of the glen,—habitable yet, and inhab¬ 
ited; it is half hidden by its climbing grapes. 
Then, to have read the “ Fioretti di San Fran¬ 
cesco” (which he found out, New Englander 
though he was,before I did) in earliest boyhood; 
then to have been brought into instructively 
grievous collision with Commerce, Liberty, and 
Evangelicalism at Geneva; then to have learned 
Political Economy from Carlyle and me; and 
finally devoted himself to write the History of 
the Bishops of Sion! What a grand, happy, con¬ 
sistent creature he would have been,—while now 
he is as hopelessly out of gear and place, over in 
the States there, as a runaway star dropped into 
Purgatory; and twenty times more a slave than 
the blackest nigger he ever set his white scholars 
to fight the South for; because all the faculties 





III. L'ESTERELLE. 


69 


a black has may be fully developed by a good 
master (see Miss Edgeworth’s story of the grate¬ 
ful Negro),*—while only about the thirtieth or 
fortieth part of Charles Norton’s effective con¬ 
tents and capacity are beneficially spent in the 
dilution of the hot lava, and fructification of the 
hot ashes, of American character;—which are 
overwhelming, borne now on volcanic air,—the 
life of Scotland, England, France, and Italy. I 
name Scotland first, for reasons which will be 
told in next “ Pneterita,”—“ Joanna’s Care.” 
Meantime, here is the last letter I have from 
Norton, showing how we have held hands since 
that first day on Geneva lake. 

“ Shady Hill. 

“ April gtk t 1887. 

“ It is very good of you, my dearest Ruskin, to 
send me such a long, pleasant letter, not punish¬ 
ing me for my silence, but trusting to— 

‘ My thought, whose love for you, 

Though words came hindmost, holds his rank before/ 

* I showed the valley of Chamouni, and the “ Pierre-a- 
Bot” above Neuchatel, to Mrs. Beecher Stowe and her 
pretty little daughter Georgie,—when Georgie was about 
sixteen, and wouldn’t let me say a word against Uncle 
Tom: howbeit, that story of the Grateful Negro, Robin¬ 
son Crusoe, and Othello, contain, any of the three, more, 
alike worldly and heavenly, wisdom than would furnish 
three “Uncle Tom’s Cabins.” 



70 


III, IIESTERELLE. 


You are doing too much, and your letter gives 
me a fear lest, out of care for me, you added a 
half-hour of effort to the work of a too busy day. 
How long it is since I first began to preach pru¬ 
dence to you! and my preaching has availed 
about as much as the sermons in stones avail to 
convert the hard-hearted. Well, we are glad to 
take each other as we are, you ever imprudent, I 
ev er-(I leave the word to your mercy). 

“ The last number of ‘ Prseterita’ pleased me 
greatly. There was a sweet tone in it, such as 
becomes the retrospect of a wise man as he 
summons the scenes of past life before his eyes; 
the clearness, the sharp-cut outline of your 
memories is a wonder, and their fulness of light 
and colour. My own are very different. I find 
the outlines of many of them blurred, and their 
colours faint. The loss that came to me fifteen 
years ago included the loss of vividness of mem¬ 
ory of much of my youth. 

“ The winter has been long and hard with us. 
Even yet there are snowbanks in shady places, 
and not yet is there a sign of a leaf. Even the 
snowdrops are hardly venturing out of the earth. 
But the birds have come back, and to-day I hear 
the woodpeckers knocking at the doors of the 
old trees to find a shelter and home for the 
summer. We have had the usual winter pleas¬ 
ures, and all my children have been well, though 
Lily is always too delicate, and ten days hence 


III. EE S TERELLE. 


71 


I part with her that she may go to England and 
try there to escape her summer cold. She goes 
out under Lowell’s charge, and will be with her 
mother’s sister and cousins in England. My 
three girls have just come to beg me to go out 
with them for a walk. So, good-bye. I will 
write soon again. Don’t you write to me when 
you are tired. I let my eyes rest for an instant 
on Turner’s sunset, and your sunrise from Herne 
Hill, which hang before me; and with a heart 
full of loving thanks to you, 

“ I am ever 

“Your affectionate 

“C. E. N. 

“ My best love to Joan,—to whom I mean to 
write.” 

Somewhat more of Joan (and Charles also) I 
have to tell, as I said, in next “ Prseterita.” 

I cannot go on, here, to tell the further tale 
of our peace and war; for the Fates wove for 
me, but a little while after they brought me that 
friend to Sallenches glen, another net of Love; 
in which alike the warp and woof were of deeper 
colours. 

Soon after I returned home, in the eventful 
year 1858, a lady wrote to me from—somewhere 
near Green Street, W.,—saying, as people some¬ 
times didy in thosrdays, that she saw I was the 



72 


III. VESTERELLE. 


only sound teacher in Art; but this farther, very 
seriously, that she wanted her children—two 
girls and a boy—taught the beginnings of Art 
rightly; especially the younger girl, in whom she 
thought I might find some power worth devel¬ 
oping:—would I come and see her ? I thought I 
would rather like to; so I went, to near Green 
Street; and found the mother—the sort of per¬ 
son I expected, but a good deal more than I ex¬ 
pected, and in all sorts of ways. Extremely 
pretty still, herself, nor at all too old to learn 
many things; but mainly anxious for her chil¬ 
dren. Emily, the elder daughter, wasn’t in; but 
Rosie was,—should she be sent for to the nur¬ 
sery? Yes, I said, if it wouldn’t tease the child, 
she might be sent for. So presently the draw¬ 
ing-room door opened, and Rosie came in, quiet¬ 
ly taking stock of me with her blue eyes as she 
walked across the room; gave me her hand, as a 
good dog gives its paw, and then stood a little 
back. Nine years old, on 3rd January, 1858, 
thus now rising towards ten; neither tall nor 
short for her age; a little stiff in her way of 
standing. The eyes rather deep blue at that time, 
and fuller and softer than afterwards. Lips per¬ 
fectly lovely in profile;—a little too wide, and 
hard in edge, seen in front, the rest of the fea¬ 
tures what a fair, well-bred Irish girl’s usually 
are; the hair, perhaps, more graceful in short 




III. L'ESTERELLE . 


73- 


curl round the forehead, and softer than one sees 
often; in the close-bound tresses above the 
neck, 

I thought it likely she might be taught to draw 
a little, if she would take time; I did not expect 
her to take^uzins, and told her mother so, at once. 
Rosie says never a word, but we continue to take 
stock of each other. “ I thought you so ugly/’ 
she told me, afterwards. She didn’t quite mean 
that; but only, her mother having talked much 
of my “ greatness ” to her, she had expected me 
to be something like Garibaldi, or the Elgin 
Theseus; and was extremely disappointed. 

I expressed myseif as ready to try what I 
could make of Rosie; only I couldn’t come every 
other day all the way in to Green Street. 
Mamma asked what sort of a road there was to 
Denmark Hill. I explained the simplicity and 
beauty of its ramifications round the Elephant 
and Castle, and how one was quite in the coun¬ 
try as soon as one got past the triangular field at 
Champion Hill. And the wildernesses of the 
Obelisk having been mapped out, and determined 
to be passable, the day was really appointed for 
first lesson at Denmark Hill—and Emily came 
with her sister. 

Emily was a perfectly sweet, serene, delicately- 
chiselled marble nymph of fourteen, softly dark¬ 
eyed, rightly tender and graceful in all she did 




74 


III. L'ESTERELLE. 


and said. I never saw such a faculty for the ar¬ 
rangement of things beautifully, in any other 
human being. If she took up a handful of flow¬ 
ers, they fell out of her hand in wreathed jewel¬ 
lery of colour and form, as if they had been sown, 
and had blossomed, to live together so, and no 
otherwise. Her mother had the same gift, but 
in its more witty, thoughtful, and scientific 
range; in Emily it was pure wild instinct. For 
an Irish girl, she was not witty, for she could 
not make a mistake; one never laughed at what 
she said, but the room was brighter for it. To 
Rose and me she soon became no more Emily, 
but “ Wisie,” named after my dead Wisie. All 
the children, and their father, loved animals;— 
my first sight of papa was as he caressed a green 
popinjay which was almost hiding itself in his 
waistcoat. Emily’s pony, Swallow, and Rosie’s 
dog, Bruno, will have their day in these memoirs; 
but Emily’s “ Bully ” was the perfectest pet of 
all;—he used to pass half his day in the air, 
above her head, or behind her shoulders, holding 
a little tress of her long hair as far out as he 
could, on the wing. 

That first day, when they came to Denmark 
Hill, there was much for them to see;—my 
mother, to begin with, and she also had to see 
them; on both sides the sight was thought good. 
Then there were thirty Turners, including the 



III. L'ESTERELLE. 


75 


great Rialto; half-a-dozen Hunts; a beautiful 
Tintoret; my minerals in the study; the loaded 
apple trees in the orchard; the glowing peaches 
on the old red garden wall. The lesson lost it¬ 
self that day in pomiferous talk, with rustic in¬ 
terludes in the stables and pigsty. The pigs es¬ 
pecially, it was observed, were highly educated, 
and spoke excellent Irish. 

When next they came, lessons began duly, 
with perspective, and the analysis of the essen¬ 
tial qualities of triangles! I must state here, 
generally, that ever since the year I lost in ef¬ 
forts to trisect an angle myself, education, both 
in drawing and ethics, has been founded by me 
on the pleasant and pretty mysteries of trigo¬ 
nometry! the more resolutely, because I always 
found ignorance of magnitudes at the root of 
modern bad taste and frivolity; and farther, be¬ 
cause all the grace, and much of the sentiment, 
both of plant and mountain form, depends on 
the angle of the cone they fill with their branches, 
or rise into with their cliffs. 

These geometrical lessons are always accom¬ 
panied, when I have girls to teach, by the most 
careful pencil study of the forms of leaves as 
they grow, whether on ground or branch. 

In botanical knowledge, and perception of 
plant-character, my eldest Irish pupil, mamma, 
was miles and miles my superior; and in powers 





76 


III. VESTERELLE. 


of design, both the children were so: but the 
fine methods of measurement and delineation 
were new to all of them; nor less the charm of 
faithfully represented colour, in full daylight, 
and in the open air. Having Turner's moun¬ 
tain drawings of his best time- beside us, and 
any quantity of convolvuluses, hollyhocks, plums, 
peaches, and apples, to bring in from the gar¬ 
den, the afternoon hours went fast; but so much 
more in talk than work, that I soon found, if 
either triangles or bindweeds were to come to 
anything, it must be under the governess’s su¬ 
perintendence, not mamma’s: and that I should 
have to make my way to Green Street, and up 
to the schoolroom, after all, on at least two out 
of three of the lesson days. Both the children, 
to my extreme satisfaction, approved of this ar¬ 
rangement, and the final order was that when¬ 
ever I happened to go through Green Street, I 
should pay them a visit in the nursery. Some¬ 
how, from that time, most of my London avoca¬ 
tions led me through Green Street. 

It chanced above all things well for me that 
their governess was a woman of great sense and 
power, whom the children entirely loved, and 
under whom mamma put herself, in the school¬ 
room, no less meekly than they; partly in play, 
but really also a little subdued by the clear in¬ 
sight o’f the fearlessly frank preceptress into her 


Ill , L'ESTERELLE. 


77 


own faults. I cannot call them “ foibles,” for 
her native wit and strength of character admitted 
none. 

Rosie had shortly expressed her sense of her 
governess’s niceness by calling her “Bun”; and 
I had not been long free of the schoolroom be¬ 
fore she wanted a name for me also, significant 
of like approval. After some deliberation, she 
christened me “Crumpet;” then, impressed by 
seeing my gentleness to beggars, canonized me 
as “Saint Crumpet,” or, shortly and practically, 
“ St. C.,”—which I remained ever afterwards; 
only Emily said one day to her sister that the 
C. did in truth stand for “ Chrysostom.” 

The drawing, and very soon painting, lessons 
went on meantime quite effectively, both the 
girls working with quick intelligence and per¬ 
fect feeling; so that I was soon able, with their 
mother’s strong help, to make them understand 
the essential qualities both of good painting and 
sculpture. Rose went on into geology; but only 
far enough to find another play-name for me,— 
“ Archegosaurus.” This was meant partly to 
indicate my scientific knowledge of Depths and 
Ages; partly to admit me more into family rela¬ 
tions, her mother having been named, by her 
cleverest and fondest friend, “ Lacerta,”—to 
signify that she had the grace and wisdom of 
the serpent, without its poison. 


73 


III . L'ESTERELLE . 


And things went on,—as good girls will know 
how, through all that winter;—in the spring, the 
Fates brought the first whirlpool into the current 
of them, in that (I forget exactly why) it was 
resolved that they should live by the Cascine of 
Florence in the spring, and on the Lung’ Arno,, 
instead of in the Park by the Serpentine. But 
there was the comfort for me that Rosie was 
really a little sorry to go away; and that she un¬ 
derstood in the most curious way how sorry I 
was. 

Some wise, and prettily mannered, people have 
told me I shouldn’t say anything about Rosie at 
all. But I am too old now to take advice, and 
I won’t have this following letter—the first she 
ever wrote me—moulder away, when I can read 
it no more, lost to all loving hearts. 

Nice, Monday , March 18 th. 

Dearest S t . Crumpet, —I am so sorry—I 
couldn’t write before, there wasn’t one bit of 

time—I am so sorry you were di sap^ointed 

S A 

—I only got yr letter yesterday (Sunday), & we 
only got to Nice late on Saturday afternoon— 
So I have got up so early this morning to try 
& get a clear hour before breakfast to write to 
you, which you see I’m doing—So you thought 
of us, dear S*. Crumpet, & we too thought so 



III. JOES TERELLE. 


79 


much of you—Thank you very much for the 
Diary letter; it was so nice of you to write so 
long a one—I have so much to tell you too 
Archigosaurus so I will begin from Dover, & 
tell what befel us up to Nice—Emily asks me 
to say that she did a picture at Dover of 
Dover Castle in a fog—I think it was to please 
you—Well we had a roughish passage, but we* 

sat on deck & didn’t mind—We thought & 
talked about you—Every great wave that came 
we called a ninth wave and we thought how 
pleasant it w d be to sit in a storm and draw 
them, but I think if you had wanted it done I’d 
have tryed to do it S*. Crumpet—There was 
what do you think at the prow of our steamer— 
yr brother Archigosaurus, an alligator, and we 
said it was you—Well so we got to Calais, break¬ 
fasted at the Table d’Hbte there, and then be¬ 
gan that weary railroad journey from Calais to 
Paris—The scenery was just the same all the 
way—I suppose you know it—Those long 
straight rows of poplars cut even at the tops & 

hat uninteresting country. I drew the poplars 

A 

m perspective for you S . Crumpet—We got to 

Paris on Friday evening & stayed till Wednes¬ 
day—No, I couldn’t I tell you, there wasn’t one 


* I leave pauses where the old pages end.—J. R. 



8o 


III. L'ESTERELLE. 


bit of time or do you think I would not have 
seized it directly for I know yr thinking why 
didn’t she write—Its too long to say all we 
did & didn’t do in Paris, so I’ll only tell about 
the Louvre and Notre Dame. We went to the 
Louvre. Oh Sh Crumpet how we thought of 
you there—How we looked and talked about 
the Titians you told us to look at particularly 
the glass ball one & the white Rabbit—Yes we 
looked so much at them and wc did, all of us, 
think them so very beautiful—I liked two por¬ 
traits of Titian’s of two dark gentlemen with 
earnest eyes better than any I think. We 
thought his skins (I mean the skins he made 
his picture-people have) so very beautifully 
done & we looked at the pinks at the corners of 
the eyes & thought of the Portrait of Lord 
Bute’s & you again S*. Crumpet. We liked 

the picture of Paul Veronese of the children 
playing with the dog very much I think one of 
them the most prominent with dark eyes & not 
looking at the dog is very beautiful. Why does 
Paul Veronese put his own family in the pic¬ 
tures of sacred subjects, I wonder? I liked the 
little puppy in the boys arms trying to get away 
—The statues in the Louvre I think most beau¬ 
tiful. Is it wrong S fc . Crumpet to like that noble 
Venus Victrix as well as Titian If it is, am I a 



III. IJES TERELLE. 


8l 



hardened little sinner? Oh, but they are so 
beautiful those statues there’s one of a Venus 
leaning against a tree with a Lacerta running 
up it—Notre Dame they are spoiling as quick as 
they can by colouring those grand old pillars 
with ugly daubs of green and yellow etc. Is 
not that “light” in the French?* It’s a bore 
saying all we thought of Paris, I must get on to 
the mountains not to say Alps—Don’t be Kin- 
fishery f dear St. Crumpet; how good it was of 
you to give yr Turners that you love so much to 
the Oxford Museum From Paris we started early 
on Wednesday morning & travelled all day & all 
the night in the train—Yes you would have said 
“Poor Posie” I was bored But we got over it 

very well—It was so pleasant to be running 
after the sun to the south (Don’t be Kingfishery ) 
& awaking at about 5 in the morning to see 
long plains of greyheaded silvery olives and here 
and there pink perky peach trees dancing 
among them—And there were groups of dark 
cool cypress trees pointing upwards, & hills & 
grey rocks sloping to the sea—the Mediterra¬ 
nean So we shook off our sleepiness, at least 
Papa Mama and I did for Emily & Adele still 

* Referring to a debate over Mrs. Browning’s poem in 
defence of them; the one in which she says, rightly, that 
they are no more “ light ” than a rifle-ball is. 

f ^fzw^-fishery. Sitting sulkily on a branch. 



III. L'ESTERELLE . 


slept; & saw behind those peaks of craggy hills 
a pink smile coming in the sky telling us that 
the morning had come really at last So we 
watched & suddenly there rose (popped w d be a 
better word for it really rose in one instant) 

such a sun—“nor dim, nor red” (you know the 
verse) & then dipped back again below the hills 
It was so beautiful—But I shocked Mama by say¬ 
ing “Jack in the box” which awoke Emily who 
declared of course she had been wide awake 
and had seen it all. Why do people always do' 
that, S fc . Crumpet? This was just before we 
came to Marseilles. It had been snowing the 
day before & it was nice to go to sleep & wake 
up in the summer—We got to Toulon and there 
we spent the day & oh Archigosaurus we saw 
so many Lacertas there; again we thought of 
you—How can you wish to be a parrot*— 
are you not our saint—You wouldn’t look 
a bit nice in a gold laced cap; don’t you 
know blue is the colour you should wear. At 
Toulon it was like July—I don’t like such heat 
—Transplantation & scorching is too much for 
an Irish rose—But I sat with Mama and Emily 

on a rock & sketched Toulon Harbour, (or rather 


* I suppose I had not expressed this farther condition, 
of being her father’s parrot. 




Ill . IJESTERELLE . 


83 


tried to) for you S*. Crumpet. Then the next 
we posted, the country was so beautiful some of 
it & towards evening we saw snowy peaks, they 
were the mountains of Savoy. I was pretty 
tired that night & we had to sleep at Frejus such 
a disagreeable place. The next day we had six 
horses to our carriage for it was a hilly road. 
We walked about two hours of the way over the 
hills * You know what sort of a view there was 
at the top, S\ Crumpet & how one stands & 
stares & says nothing because the words of Grand 
Glorious, Beautiful etc cannot in one quarter 
express what one thinks. You the author of 
M-Ps c d describe it Irish roses can't. But I can 
tell you how my cousins the moorland roses 
nodded at me as I passed and how they couldn't 
understand why Irish hedge roses bloomed in 
July instead of March I can tell you how the 

fields were white with Narcissi, how the roads 
were edged with mauve-colored anemones & how 
the scarlet anemones stood up in the meadows 
tantalizing me in the carriage so much because I 
wanted to feel them And there were myrtles 
(wild) growing close to the blue Mediterranean 
& Mama lay down on them by the seaside at 

* The pass of the Esterelle, between Frejus and Nice; 
more beautiful, always, to me, than all the groves and 
cliffs of the Riviera.—J. R., iSSq. 






84 


III. L'ESTERELLE. 


Cannes while Papa and I were talking to a per¬ 
fectly deaf old French fisherman who gave his* 
to me as he caught them putting them half alive 
into my hands, oh, you w d have been alive there 
Archigosaurus. How I wish you had been there. 
Well we got here (Nice) on Saturday evening 
& we climbed up an old Roman Ampitheatre 
and saw of all sunsets the most glorious. We 
said it was like Light in the West, Eeauvais, and 
again we thought of you Oh S\ Crumpet I 

think of you so much & of all your dearnesses 
to me I wish so very much that you were 
happy—God can make you so—We will try 
not to forget all you taught us—It was so nice 
of you. Thank you so much from both of us.— 
Mama is very glad you went to Dr. Ferguson 
She says you must not give him up. How very 
kind of you to see & talk to our old man Cer¬ 
tainly the name is not beautiful We have all read 
your letter & we all care for it. That was in¬ 
deed a “ dear Irish labourer.” I like him so 
much; such a nice letter. I hope M r & M rs 
Ruskin are well now. Will you give them our 
love please & take for yourself as much as ever 
you please. It will be a great deal if you deign 

* “ Fish” to be understood; also that the fisherman was 
not “ perfectly” deaf, for papa could not have talked with 
his eyes only, as Rose could. 




III. L'ESTERELLE . 


85 


to take all we send you. I like Nice but I don’t 
much like being transplanted except going home. 
I am ever your rose. 


j Postscript. 

Yes, write packets—trunks, & we shall like 
them so much. Indeed I couldn’t write before, 
I’ll try to write again. You must see how we 
think of you & talk of you—rose posie. 




CHAPTER IV. 

Joanna’s care. 

The mischances which have delayed the se¬ 
quence of “ Praeterita ” must modify somewhat 
.also its intended order. I leave Rosie’s letter 
to tell what it can of the beginning of happiest 
days; but omit, for a little while, the further rec¬ 
ord of them,—of the shadows which gathered 
around them, and increased, in my father’s ill¬ 
ness; and of the lightning which struck him 
down in death—so sudden, that I find it ex¬ 
tremely difficult, in looking back, to realize the 
state of mind in which it left either my mother 
or me. My own principal feeling was certainly 
anxiety for her, who had been for so many years 
in every thought dependent on my father’s 
wishes, and withdrawn from all other social 
pleasure as long as she could be his companion. 
I scarcely felt the power I had over her, myself; 
and was at first amazed to find my own life sud¬ 
denly becoming to her another ideal; and that 
new hope and pride were possible to her, in see- 

86 





IV. JOANNA'S CARE. 


8/ 


ing me take command of my father’s fortune, 
and permitted by him, from his grave, to carry 
out the theories I had formed for my political 
work, with unrestricted and deliberate energy. 

My mother’s perfect health of mind, and vital 
religious faith, enabled her to take all the good 
that was left to her, in the world, while she 
looked in secure patience for the heavenly fu¬ 
ture: but there was immediate need for some 
companionship which might lighten the burden 
of the days to her. 

I have never yet spoken of the members of my 
grandmother’s family, who either remained in 
Galloway,* or were associated with my early days 
in London. Quite one of the dearest of them 
at this time, was Mrs. Agnew, born Catherine 
T weddale, and named Catherine after her aunt, 
my father’s mother. She had now for some 
years been living in widowhood; her little 
daughter, Joan, only five years old when her 
father died, having grown up in their pretty old 
house at Wigtown,f in the simplicity of entirely 

*See “ Praeterita/’ vol. i., pp. 7S, 79. 

JNow pulled down and the site taken for the new 
county buildings. The house as it once stood is seen in 
the centre of the woodcut at page 6 of Gordon Fraser’s 
Guide, with the Stewartry hills in the distance. I have 
seldom seen a truer rendering of the look of an old Scot¬ 
tish town. 




88 


IV. JOANNA’S CARE. 


natural and contented life: and, though again and 
again under the stress of domestic sorrow, unten¬ 
able in the depth of the cup which the death- 
angels filled for the child, yet in such daily happi¬ 
ness as her own bright and loving nature secured 
in her relations with all those around her; and in 
the habits of childish play, or education, then 
common in the rural towns of South Scotland: 
of which, let me say at once that there was 
greater refinement in them, and more honourable 
pride, than probably, at that time, in any other 
district of Europe;* a certain pathetic melody 

*The following couple of pages, from “ Redgauntlet,” 
put in very few words the points of difference between 
them and the fatally progressive follies and vanities of 
Edinburgh:— 

‘“Come away, Mr. Fairford; the Edinburgh time is 
later than ours,’ said the Provost. 

“ ‘ And come away, young gentleman/ said the Laird ; 
' I remember your father well, at the Cross, thirty years 
ago. I reckon you are as late in Edinburgh as at Lon¬ 
don; four o’clock hours, eh?’ 

,c ‘ Not quite so degenerate/ replied Fairford; * but cer¬ 
tainly many Edinburgh people are so ill-advised as to 
postpone their dinner till three, that they may have full 
time to answer their London correspondents. * 

“‘London correspondents!’ said Mr. Maxwell; ‘and 
pray, what the devil have the people of Auld Reekie to 
do with London correspondents?’ 

The tradesmen must have their goods/ said Fair¬ 
ford. 


IV. JOANNA'S CAKE. 89 

and power of tradition consecrating nearly every 
scene with some past light, either of heroism or 
religion. 

And so it chanced, providentially, that at 
this moment, when my mother’s thought dwelt 
constantly on the past, there should be this 
child near us,—still truly n child, in her powers 
of innocent pleasure, but already so accustomed 
to sorrow, that there was nothing that could 
farther depress her in my mother’s solitude. I 
have not time to tell of the pretty little ways in 
which it came about, but they all ended in my 
driving to No. 1, Cambridge Street, on the 19th 

“‘Can they not buy our own Scottish manufacture's, 
and pick their customers’ pockets in a more patriotic 
manner? ’ 

*‘ ‘ Then the ladies must have fashions,’ said Fairford. 

“‘Can they not busk the plaid over their heads, as 
their mothers did? A tartan screen, and once a year a 
new cockernony from Paris, should serve a countess; but 
ye have not many of them left, I think. Maresehal, Air- 
ley, Winton, Wemyss, Halmerino—-ay, ay, the countesses 
and ladies of quality will scarce take up too much of 
your ball-room floor with their quality hoops nowadays.’ 

“‘There is no want of crowding, however, sir,’ said 
Fairford; * they begin to talk of a new Assembly Room.’ 

“‘A new Assembly Room!’ said the old Jacobite 
Laird. ‘ Umph—I mind quartering three hundred men 
in the Assembly Room you have. Hut, come, conic: I’ll 
ask no more questions—the answers all smell of new 
lords, new lands.’ ’ 





90 


IV. JOANNA'S CARE. 


April, 1864: where her uncle (my cousin, John 
Tweddale) brought her up to the drawing-room 
to me, saying, “ This is Joan/' 

I had seen her three years before, but not long 
enough to remember her distinctly: only I had 
a notion that she would be “ nice,”* and saw at 
once that she was entirely nice, both in my 
mother’s way, and mine ; being now seventeen 
years and some—well, for example of accuracy 
and conscience—forty-five days, old. And I 
very thankfully took her handout of her uncle’s, 
and received her in trust, saying—I do not re¬ 
member just what,—but certainly feeling much 
more strongly than either her uncle or she did, 
that the gift, both to my mother and me, was 
one which we should not easily bear to be again 
withdrawn. I put her into my father’s carriage 
at the door, and drove her out to Denmark Hill. 
Here is her own account of what followed be¬ 
tween my mother and her :— 

“ I was received with great kindness by the 
dear old lady, who did not inspire me , as she did 
so many other people, with a feeling of awe! 
We were the best of friends, from the first. She, 
ever most considerate of what would please me y 
and make me happy; and I (ever a lover of old 

* And the word means more, with me, than with 
Sydney Smith (see his Memoirs); but it means all that 
he does, to begin with. 


IV. JOANNA'S CARE. 91 

ladies!) delighted to find it so easily possible to 
please her. 

“ Next morning she said, ‘Now tell me frankly, 
child, what you like best to eat, and you shall 
have it. Don’t hesitate; say what you’d really 
like,—for luncheon to-day, for instance.’ I said, 
truthfully, ‘ Cold mutton, and oysters’; and this 
became a sort of standing order (in months with 
the letter rf )—greatly to the cook’s amusement. 

“ Of course I respectfully called the old lady 
‘Mrs. Ruskin ’; but in a day or two, she told me 
she didn’t like it, and would I call her ‘Aunt ’ or 
‘Auntie’? I readily did so. 

“ The days flew in that lovely garden, and as I 
had only been invited to stay a week, until Mr. 
Ruskin should return home,* I felt miserable 
when he did come, thinking I must go back to 
London streets, and noise (though I was always 
very happy with my good uncle and aunts). 

“ So, when the last evening came, of my week, 
I said, with some hesitation, ‘ Auntie, I had 
better go back to my uncle’s to-morrow! ’ 

“ She flung down her netting, and turned 
sharply round, saying, ‘Are you unhappy, child? ’ 
‘ Oh no! ’ said I, ‘ only my week is up, and I 
thought it was time-* 


* I must have been going away somewhere the day 
after I brought her to Denmark Hill. 




92 


IV. JOANNA'S CARE. 


“I was not allowed to finish my sentence. She 
said, ‘ Never let me hear you say anything again 
about going; as long as you are happy here, stay, 
and we’ll send for your clothes, and make arrange¬ 
ments about lessons, and everything else here.’ 

“ And thus it came about that I stayed seven 
years !—till I married; going home now and then 
to Scotland, but always getting pathetic little 
letters there, telling me to ‘ come back as soon as 
my mother could spare me, that I was much 
missed, and nobody could ever fill my place.’ 
And auntie was very old then (not that she ever 
could bear being called old at ninety!), and I 
could not ever bear the thought of leaving her! ” 

Thus far Joanie; nor virtually have she and 
I ever parted since. I do not care to count how 
long it is since her marriage to Arthur Severn; 
only I think her a great deal prettier now than 
I did then: but other people thought her ex¬ 
tremely pretty then, and I am certain that every¬ 
body felt the guileless and melodious sweetness 
of the face. Her first conquest was almost on 
our threshold; for half an hour or so after we 
had reached Denmark Hill, Carlyle rode up the 
front garden, joyfully and reverently received as 
always; and stayed the whole afternoon; even, 
(Joan says) sitting with us during our early din¬ 
ner at five. Many a day after that, he used to 
come; and one evening, “in describing with 


IV. JOANNA'S CARE . 


93 


some rapture how he had once as a young man 
had a delightful trip into Galloway, ‘ where he 
was most hospitably entertained in the town of 
Wigtown by a Mr. Tweddale,’ I (Joan) said 
quietly, ‘1 am so glad! That was my grand¬ 
father, and Wigtown is my native place !’ He 
turned in a startled, sudden way, saying, ‘ Bless 
the child, is that so ? ’ adding some very pretty 
compliments to my place and its people, which 
filled my heart with great pride. And, on 
another occasion, after he had been to meet the 
Queen at Dean Stanley’s, in describing to us some 
of the conversation, he made us laugh by telling 
how, in describing to Her Majesty the beauty of 
Galloway, that 4 he believed there was no finer 
or more beautiful drive in her kingdom than the 
one round the shore of the Stewartry, by Gate¬ 
house of Fleet,’ he got so absorbed in his sub¬ 
ject that, in drawing his chair closer to the Queen, 
he at last became aware he had fixed it on her 
dress, and that she could not move till he with¬ 
drew it! Do you think I may say farther ” (Of 
course, Joanie), “that Carlyle as a young man 
often went to my great aunt’s (Mrs. Church) in 
Dumfriesshire,* and he has several times told me 
that he considered her one of the most remark¬ 
able and kindest women he had ever known. On 
one occasion while there, he went to the little 
Cummertrees Church, where the then minister 



94 


IV. JOANNA'S CARE. 


(as a joke sometimes called ‘ Daft Davie Gilles¬ 
pie’) used to speak his mind very plainly from 
the pulpit, and while preaching a sermon on 
1 Youth and Beauty being laid in the grave,’ some¬ 
thing tickled Carlyle, and he was seen to smile; 
upon which Mr. Gillespie stopped suddenly, 
looked with a frown at Carlyle (who was sitting 
in my aunt’s pew), and said, ‘ Mistake me not, 
young man; it is youth alone that you possess.’ 
This was told to me (Joan) by an old cousin of 
mine who heard it, and was sitting next Carlyle 
at the time.” 

I am so glad to be led back by Joanie to the 
thoughts of Carlyle, as he showed himself to her, 
and to me, in those spring days, when he used to 
take pleasure in the quiet of the Denmark Hill 
garden, and to use all his influence with me to 
make me contented in my duty to my mother; 
which he, as, with even greater insistence, Turner, 
always told me as my first;—both of them seeing, 
with equal clearness, the happiness of the life 
that was possible to me in merely meeting my 
father’s affection and hers, with the tranquil ex¬ 
ertion of my own natural powers, in the place 
where God had set me. 

Both at the time, and ever since, I have felt 
bitter remorse that I did not make Carlyle free 
of the garden, and his horse of the stables, 
whether we were at home or not; for the fresh 



IV. JOANNA'S CARE. 


95 


air, and bright view of the Norwood Hills, were 
entirely grateful and healing to him, when the 
little back garden at Cheyne Row was too hot, 
or the neighbourhood of it too noisy, for his 
comfort. 

And at this time, nearly every opportunity of 
good, and peace, was granted in Joan’s coming 
to help me to take care of my mother. She was 
perfectly happy, herself, in the seclusion of Den¬ 
mark Hill; while yet the occasional evenings 
spent at George Richmond’s, or with others 
of her London friends, (whose circle rapidly 
widened), enabled her to bring back to my 
mother little bits of gossip which were entirely 
refreshing to both of us; for I used to leave my 
study whenever Joanie came back from these 
expeditions, to watch my mother’s face in its 
glittering sympathy. I think I have said of her 
before, that although not witty herself, her strong 
sense gave her the keenest enjoyment of kindly 
humour, whether in saying or incident; and I 
have seen her laughing, partly at Joanie and 
partly with her, till the tears ran down her still 
brightly flushing cheeks. Joan was never tired 
of telling her whatever gave her pleasure, nor 
of reading to her, in quieter time, the books she 
delighted in, against which, girls less serenely— 
nay, less religiously, bred, would assuredly have 




9 6 


IV. JOANNA'S CARE. 


rebelled,—any quantity, for instance, of Miss 
Edgeworth and Richardson. 

(I interrupt myself for a moment to express, 
at this latter time of life, the deep admiration I 
still feel for Richardson. The follies of modern 
novel writing render it impossible for young 
people to understand the perfection of the 
human nature in his conception, and delicacy 
of finish in his dialogue, rendering all his greater 
scenes unsurpassable in their own manner of art. 
They belong to a time of the English language 
in which it could express with precision the 
most delicate phases of sentiment, necessarily 
now lost under American, Cocknejq or scholastic 
slang.) 

Joanie herself had real faculty and genius in 
all rightly girlish directions. She had an ex¬ 
tremely sweet voice, whether in reading or sing¬ 
ing ; inventive wit, which was softly satirical, 
but never malicious ; and quite a peculiar, and 
perfect, sense of clownish humour, which never 
for an instant diminished her refinement, but 
enabled her to sing either humorous Scotch, or 
the brightest Christy Minstrel carols, with a 
grace and animation which, within their gentle 
limits, could not be surpassed. She had a good 
natural faculty for drawing also, not inventive, 
but realistic ; so that she answered my first les¬ 
sons with serviceable care and patience ; and 



IV. JOANNA'S CARE. 


97 


was soon able to draw and paint flowers which 
were a great deal liker the flowers themselves 
than my own elaborate studies ;—no one said 
of them, “ What wonderful drawing! ” but every¬ 
body said, “ How like a violet, or a buttercup! ” 
At that point, however, she stayed, and yet stays, 
to my sorrow, never having advanced into land¬ 
scape drawing. 

But very soon, also, she was able to help me 
in arranging my crystals; and the day divided 
itself between my mother’s room, the mineral 
room, the garden, and the drawing-room, with 
busy pleasures for every hour. 

Then, in my favourite readings, the deep in¬ 
terest which, in his period of entirely central 
power, Scott had taken in the scenery of the 
Solway, rendered everything that Joanie could 
tell me of her native bay and its hills, of the 
most living interest to me; and although, from 
my father’s unerring tutorship, I had learned 
Scott’s own Edinburgh accent with a precision 
which made the turn of every sentence precious 
to me, (and, I believe, my own rendering of it 
thoroughly interesting, even to a Scottish listen¬ 
er,)—yet every now and then Joanie could tell 
me something of old, classic, Galloway Scotch,, 
which was no less valuable to me than a sudden 
light thrown on a chorus in Hischylus would be 
to a Greek scholar ;—nay, only the other day I 



98 


IV. JOANNA'S CARE. 


was entirely crushed by her interpreting to me, 
for the first time, the meaning of the name of 
the village of Captain Clutterbuck’s residence,— 
Kennaquhair.* 

And it has chiefly been owing to Joan’s help, 
—and even so, only within the last five or six 
years,—that I have fully understood the power, 
not on Sir Walter’s mind merely, but on the 
character of all good Scotchmen (much more, 
good Scotchwomen), of the two lines of coast 


* “ Ken xia’ where”! Note the cunning with which 
Scott himself throws his reader off the scent, in the first 
sentence of “The Monastery,” by quoting the learned 
Chalmers •' for the derivation of the word ‘ Quhair * 
from the winding course of the stream ; a definition which 
•coincides in a remarkable degree with the serpentine turns 
of the Tweed”! (“It’s a serpentine turn of his own, I 
think!” says Joanie, as I show her the sentence,) while 
in the next paragraph he gives an apparently historical 
•existence to “ the village of which we speak,” by associ¬ 
ating it with Melrose, Jedburgh, and Kelso, in the 
“splendour of foundation by David I.,” and concludes, 
respecting the lands with which the king endowed these 
wealthy fraternities, with a grave sentence, perhaps the 
most candid ever written by a Scotsman, of the centuries 
preceding the Reformation: “In fact, for several ages 
the possessions of these Abbies were each a sort of 
Coshen, enjoying the calm light of peace and immunity, 
while the rest of the country, occupied by wild clans and 
marauding barons, was one dark scene of confusion, 
blood, and unremitted outrage.” 





IV. JOANNA'S CARE . 


99 


from Holy Island to Edinburgh, and from 
Annan to the Mull of Galloway. Between 
them, if the reader will glance at any old map 
which gives rivers and mountains, instead of 
railroads and factories, he will find that all the 
highest intellectual and moral powers of Scot¬ 
land were developed, from the days of the 
Douglases of Lochmaben, to those of Scott in 
Edinburgh,—Burns in Ayr,—and Carlyle at 
Ecclefechan, by the pastoral country, every¬ 
where habitable, but only by hardihood under 
suffering, and patience in poverty; defending 
themselves always against the northern Pictish 
war of the Highlands, and the southern, of the 
English Edwards and Percys, in the days when 
whatever was loveliest and best of the Catholic 
religion haunted still the—then ?iot ruins,—of 
Melrose, Jedburgh, Dryburgh, Kelso, Dumblane, 
Dundrennan, New Abbey of Dumfries, and, 
above all, the most ancient Cave of Whithorn,— 
the Candida Casa of St. Ninian; while perfectly 
sincere and passionate forms of Evangelicalism 
purified and brightened the later characters of 
shepherd Cameronian life, being won, like all 
the great victories of Christianity, by martyr¬ 
doms, of which the memory remains most vivid 
by those very shores where Christianity was 
first planted in Scotland,—Whithorn is, I think, 
only ten miles south of Wigtown Bay; and in 






IOO 


IV. JOANNA'S CARE . 


the churchyard of Wigtown, close to the old 
Agnew burying-ground (where most of Joanie’s 
family are laid), are the graves of Margaret Mac- 
Lachlan, and Margaret Wilson, over which in 
rhythm is recorded on little square tombstones 
the story of their martyrdom. 

It was only, I repeat, since what became prac¬ 
tically my farewell journey in Italy in 1882, that 
I recovered the train of old associations by re¬ 
visiting Tweedside, from Coldstream up to 
Ashestiel; and the Solway shores from Dumfries 
to Whithorn; and while what knowledge I had 
of southern and foreign history then arranged 
itself for final review, it seemed to me that this 
space of low mountain ground, with the eternal 
sublimity of its rocky seashores, of its stormy 
seas and dangerous sands; its strange and 
mighty crags, Ailsa and the Bass, and its path¬ 
less moorlands, haunted by the driving cloud, 
had been of more import in the true world's his¬ 
tory than all the lovely countries of the South, 
except only Palestine. In my quite last journey 
to Venice I was, I think, justly and finally im¬ 
pressed with the sadness and even weak?iess of 
the Mediterranean coasts; and the temptation 
to human nature, there, to solace itself with 
debasing pleasures; while the very impossi¬ 
bility of either accumulating the treasures, or 
multiplying the dreams, of art, among those 


IV. JOANNA'S CARE . 


lOI 


northern waves and rocks, left the spirit of man 
strong to bear the hardships of the world, and 
faithful to obey the precepts of Heaven. 

It is farther strange to me, even now, on re¬ 
flection—to find how great the influence of this 
double ocean coast and Cheviot mountain bor¬ 
der was upon Scott’s imagination; and how 
salutary they were in withdrawing him from the 
morbid German fancies which proved so fatal 
to Carlyle: but there was this grand original 
difference between the two, that, with Scott, his 
story-telling and singing were all in the joyful 
admiration of that past with which he could re¬ 
people the scenery he gave the working part of 
his day to traverse, and all the sensibility of his 
soul to love;* while Carlyle’s mind, fixed anx- 


* Yet, remember, so just and intense is his perception, 
and so stem his condemnation, of whatever is corrupt in 
the Scottish character, that while of distinctly evil natures 
—Varney, Rashleigh, or Lord Dalgarno—he takes world¬ 
wide examples,—the unpardonable baseness of so-called 
respectable or religious persons, and the cruelties of en¬ 
tirely selfish soldiers, are always Scotch. Take for the 
highest type the Lord Lindsay of “ The Abbot,” and for 
the worst, Morton in ** The Monastery,” then the terri¬ 
ble, because at first sincere, Balfour of Burleigh in “ Old 
Mortality”; and in lower kind, the Andrew Fairservice 
and MacVittie of “ Rob Roy,” the Peter Peebles of 

** Redgauntlet,” the Glossin of “ Guy Mannering,” and 
the Saddletree of the “ Heart of Midlothian.” 



102 


IV. JOANNA’S CAVE. 


iously on the future, and besides embarrassed 
by the practical pinching, as well as the uncon¬ 
fessed shame, of poverty, saw and felt from his 
earliest childhood nothing but the faultfulness 
and gloom of the Present. 

It has been impossible, hitherto, to make the 
modern reader understand the vastness of Scott’s 
true historical knowledge, underneath its roman¬ 
tic colouring, nor the concentration of it in the 
production of his eternally great poems and ro¬ 
mances. English ignorance of the Scottish dia¬ 
lect is at present nearly total; nor can it be 
without very earnest effort, that the melody of 
Scott’s verse, or the meaning of his dialogue, 
can ever again be estimated. He must now be 
read with the care which we give to Chaucer; 
but with the greater reward, that what is only a 
dream in Chaucer, becomes to us, understood 
from Scott, a consummate historical morality 
and truth. 

The first two of his great poems, “ The Lay 
of the Last Minstrel ” and “ Marmion,” are the 
re-animation of Border legends, closing with the 
truest and grandest battle-piece that, so far as I 
know, exists in the whole compass of literature*; 

* I include the literature of all foreign languages, so 
far as known to me: there is nothing to approach the fin¬ 
ished delineation and flawless majesty of conduct in Scott’s 
Flodden. 


IV. JOANNA'S CARE. 


103 


—the absolutely fairest in justice to both con¬ 
tending nations, the absolutely most beautiful in 
its conceptions of both. And that the palm in 
that conception remains with the Scotch, 
through the sorrow of their defeat, is no more 
than accurate justice to the national character, 
which rose from the fraternal branches of the 
Douglas of Tantallon and the Douglas of Dun- 
keld. But,—between Tantallon and Dunkeld, 
—what moor or mountain is there over which 
the purple cloud of Scott’s imagination has not 
wrapt its light, in those two great poems?—fol¬ 
lowed by the entirely heroic enchantment of 
“ The Lady of the Lake,” dwelling on the High¬ 
land virtue which gives the strength of clanship, 
and the Lowland honour of knighthood, founded 
on the Catholic religion. Then came the series 
of novels, in which, as I have stated elsewhere, 
those which dealt with the history of other na¬ 
tions, such as “Ivanhoe,”“ Kenilworth,” “Wood- 
stock,” “ Quentin Durward,” “ Peveril of the 
Peak,” “ The Betrothed,” and “ The Crusaders,” 
however attractive to the general world, were 
continually weak in fancy, and false in prejudice; 
but the literally Scotch novels, “Waverley,” 
“ Guy Mannering,” “ The Antiquary,” “ Old 
Mortality,” “The Heart of Midlothian,” “The 
Abbot,” “ Redgauntlet,” and “The Fortunes of 
Nigel,” are , whatever the modern world may 



104 


IV. JOANNA'S CARE. 


think of them, as faultless, throughout, as human 
work can be: and eternal examples of the inef¬ 
fable art which is taught by the loveliest nature 
to her truest children. 

Now of these, observe, “ Guy Mannering,” 
“ Redgauntlet,” a great part of “ Waverley,” and 
the beautiful close of “ The Abbot,” pass on the 
two coasts of Solway. The entire power of 
“ Old Mortality” rises out of them, and their 
influence on Scott is curiously shown by his 
adoption of the name u Ochiltree ” for his 
bedesman of Montrose, coming, not from the 
near hills, as one at first fancies, but from the 
Ochiltree Castle, which in Mercator’s old map 
of 1637 I find in the centre of the archbishopric, 
then extending from Glasgow to Wigtown, and 
correspondent to that of St*. Andrew’s on the east, 
—the subordinate bishopric of Candida Casa, 
answering to that of Dunkeld, with the bishop¬ 
rics of the isles Sura, Mura, and Isla. It is also, 
Mercator adds in his note, called the “ bishopric 
of Galloway.” 

“ Even I,” says Joanie, again, “ remember old 
people who knew the real ‘ Old Mortality.’ 
He used to come through all the Galloway dis¬ 
trict to clean and re-cut the old worn grave¬ 
stones of the martyrs; sometimes, I have been 
told, to the long since disused kirkyard of Kirk- 
Christ, the place where my great aunt, Mrs. 








IV. JOANNA'S CARE. IOJ 

Church (Carlyle’s friend, of whom I have 
spoken.) began her married life. Kirkchrist is 
just on the opposite side from Kirkcudbright, 
overlooking the River Dee.” 

I must go back to a middle-aged map of 1773, 
to find the noble river rightly traced from its 
source above Kenmure Castle to the winding 
bay which opens into Solway, by St. Mary’s Isle; 
where Kirkchrist is marked as Christ K, with a 
cross, indicating the church then existing. 

I was staying with Arthur and Joan, at Ken- 
mure Castle itself in the year 1876, and remem¬ 
ber much of its dear people: and, among the 
prettiest scenes of Scottish gardens, the beautiful 
trees on the north of that lawn on which the last 
muster m'et for King Charles; “ and you know,” 
says Joanie, “the famous song that used to in¬ 
spire them all, of 1 Kenmure’s on and awa, 
Willie!’ ”* The thoughts come too fast upon 
me, for before Joanie said this, I was trying to 
recollect on what height above Solway, Darsie 
Latimer pauses with Wandering Willie, in whom 
Scott records for ever the glory,—not of Scot- 

* “ Lady Huntley plays Scotch tunes like a Highland 
angel. She ran a set of variations on ‘ Kenmure’s on 
and awa,’ which I told her were enough to raise a whole 
country-side. I never in my life heard such fire thrown 
into that sort of music .”—Sir Walter writing to his 
daughter Sophia. Lockhart's “ Life vol. iv., page 371* 



106 IV. JOANNA’S CARE. 

tish music only, but of all Music , rightly so called,. 
-—which is a part of God’s own creation, becom¬ 
ing an expression of the purest hearts. 

I cannot pause now to find the spot,* and still 
less the churchyard in which, at the end of 
Wandering Willie’s tale, his grandsire wakes: 
but, to the living reader, I have this to say very 
earnestly, that the whole glory and blessing of 
these sacred coasts depended on the rise and 
fall of their eternal sea, over sands which the 
sunset gilded with its withdrawing glow, from 
the measureless distances of the west, on the 
ocean horizon, or veiled in silvery mists, or 
shadowed with fast-flying storm, of which never¬ 
theless every cloud was pure, and the winter 
snows blanched in the starlight. For myself, 
the impressions of the Solway sands are a part 
of the greatest teaching that ever I received dur¬ 
ing the joy of youth:—for Turner, they became 
the most pathetic that formed his character in 
the prime of life, and the five Liber Studiorum 
subjects, “ Solway Moss,” “ Peat Bog, Scotland,” 
“ The Falls of Clyde,” “Ben Arthur,” and 
“ Dumblane Abbey,” remain more complete ex¬ 
pressions of his intellect, and more noble monu- 

* It is on the highest bit of moor between Dumfries 
and Annan. Wandering Willie’s “ parishine ” is only 
thus defined in “ Redgauntlet ”—“ They ca’ the place 
Primrose Knowe.” 




IV. JOANNA'S CARE. 10/ 

ments of his art, than all his mightiest after 
work, until the days of sunset in the west came 
for it also. 

As “ Redgauntlet” is, in its easily readable 
form, inaccessible, nowadays, I quote at once 
the two passages which prove Scott's knowledge 
of music, and the strong impression made on him 
by the scenery between Dumfries and Annan. 
Hear, first, of Darsie Latimer’s escape from the 
simplicity of his Quaker friends to the open 
downs of the coast which had formerly seemed 
so waste and dreary. “ The air I breathed felt 
purer and more bracing; the clouds, riding high 
upon a summer breeze, drove in gay succession 
over my head, now obscuring the sun, now let¬ 
ting its rays stream in transient flashes upon 
various parts of the landscape, and especially 
upon the broad mirror of the distant Frith of 
Solway.” 

A moment afterwards he catches the tune of 
“ Old Sir Thom a Lyne,” sung by three musicians, 
cosily niched into what you might call a bunkeri* 
a little sand-pit, dry and snug, surrounded by its 
banks, and a screen of furze in full bloom. Of 
whom the youngest, Benjie, “ at first somewhat 
dismayed at my appearance, but calculating on 


* This is a modern word, meaning, first, a large chest; 
then, a recess scooped in soft rock. 




io8 


IV. JOANNA'S CARE . 


my placability, almost in one breath assured the 
itinerants that I was a grand gentleman, and had 
plenty of money, and was very kind to poor folk, 
and informed me that this was Willie Steenson, 
1 Wandering Willie, the best fiddler that ever 
kittled thairm (catgut) with horsehair.’ I asked 
him if he was of this country. ‘ This country! ’ 
replied the blind man, i and of every country in 
broad Scotland, and a wee bit of England to the 
boot. But yet I am in some sense of this country, 
for I was born within hearing of the roar of Sol - 
way' ” 

I must pause again to tell the modern reader 
that no word is ever used by Scott in a hackneyed 
sense. For three hundred years of English 
commonplace, roar has rhymed to shore, as 
breeze to trees; yet in this sentence the word is 
as powerful as if it had never been written till 
now! for no other sound of the sea is for an in¬ 
stant comparable to the breaking of deep ocean, 
as it rises over great spaces of sand. In its rise 
and fall on a rocky coast, it is either perfectly 
silent, or, if it strike, it is with a crash, or a blow 
like that of a heavy gun. Therefore, under or¬ 
dinary conditions, there may be either splash , or 
crash , or sigh, or boom; but not roar. But the 
hollow sound of the countless ranks of surfy 
breakers, rolling mile after mile in ceaseless fol- 
owing, every one of them with the apparent 



IF. JOANNA’S CARE. I0<^ 

anger and threatening of a fate which is assured 
death unless fled from,—the sound of this ap¬ 
proach, over quicksands, and into inextricable- 
gulfs of mountain bay, this, heard far out at sea, 
or heard far inland, through the peace of secure 
night—or stormless day, is still an eternal voice, 
with the harmony in it of a mighty law, and the 
gloom of a mortal warning. 

“ The old man preluded as he spoke, and then 
taking the old tune of ‘ Galashiels ’ for his theme, 
he graced it with a wildness of complicated and 
beautiful variations; during which it was won¬ 
derful to observe how his sightless, face was 
lighted up under the conscious pride and heart¬ 
felt delight in the exercise of his own very con¬ 
siderable powers. 

“ 4 What think you of that now, for threescore 
and twa? ’ ” 

I pause again to distinguish this noble pride 
of a man of unerring genius, in the power which 
all his life has been too short to attain, up to the 
point he conceives of,—from the base compla¬ 
cency of the narrow brain and dull heart, in 
their own chosen ways of indolence or error. 

The feeling comes out more distinctly still, 
three pages forward, when his wife tells him, 
“ The gentleman is a gentleman, Willie; ye maun- 
na speak that gate to him, hinnie.” “ The deevil 




no 


IV. JOANNA'S CARE. 


I maunna!” said Willie,* “ and what formaunna 
I? If he was ten gentles, he canna draw a bow 
like me , can he?” 

I need to insist upon this distinction, at this 
time in England especially, when the names of 
artists, whose birth was an epoch in the world’s 
.history, are dragged through the gutters of Paris, 
Manchester, and New York, to decorate the last 
puffs written for a morning concert, or a monthly 
exhibition. I have just turned out of the house 
a book in which I am told by the modern picture 
dealer that Mr. A., B., C., D., or F. is “ the Mo¬ 
zart of the nineteenth century”; the fact being 
that Mozart’s birth wrote the laws of melody for 

* Joanie tells me she has often heard the fame of the 
real Wandering Willie spoken of: he was well known in 
travel from the Border right into Galloway, stopping to 
play in villages and at all sorts of out-of-the-way houses, 
and, strangely, succeeded by a blind woman fiddler, who 
used to come led by a sister; and the chief singing lessons 
in Joanie’s young days were given through Galloway by 
a blind man , who played the fiddle to perfection; and his 
ear was so correct that if in a class of fifty voices one note 
was discordant, he would stop instantly, tap loudly cn the 
fiddle with the back of his bow, fly to the spot where the 
wrong note came from, pounce on the person, and say, 
“Itwas you, and it’s no use denying it; if I can’t see, I 
can hear!” and he’d make the culprit go over and over 
the phrase till it was conquered. He always opened the 
class with a sweeping scale, dividing off so many voices 
to each note, to follow in succession.” 


IV. JOANNA'S CARE. 


Ill 


all the world as irrevocably as if they had been 
set down by the waves of Solway; and as widely 
as the birth of St. Gregory in the sixth century 
fixed to its date for ever the establishment of the 
laws of musical expression. Men of perfect gen¬ 
ius are known in all centuries by their perfect re¬ 
spect to all law, and love of past tradition; their 
work in the world is never innovation, but new 
creation; without disturbing for an instant the 
foundations which were laid of old time. One 
would have imagined—at least, any one but 
Scott would have imagined—that a Scottish blind 
fiddler would have been only the exponent of 
Scottish feeling and Scottish art; it was even 
with astonishment that I myself read the con¬ 
clusion of his dialogue with Darsie Latimer: 
“ i Are ye in the wont of drawing up wi’ all the 
gangrel bodies that ye meet on the high road, 
or find cowering in a sand-bunker upon the 
links?’ demanded Willie. 

“ ‘ Oh, no! only with honest folks like yourself, 
Willie,’ was my reply. 

“‘Honest folks like me! How do ye ken 
whether I am honest, or what I am? I may be 
the deevil himsell for what ye ken; for he has 
power to come disguised like an angel of light; 
and besides, he is a prime fiddler. He played a 
sonata to Corelli , ye ken.’ ” 

This reference to the simplest and purest 



1 12 /v. JOANNA'S'CARE. 

writer of Italian melody being not for the sake 
of the story, but because Willie’s own art had 
been truly founded upon him, so that he had 
been really an angel of music, as well as light to 
him. See the beginning of the dialogue in the 
previous page. “ ‘ Do you ken the Laird?’ said 
Willie, interrupting an overture of Corelli, of 
which he had whistled several bars with great 
precision.” 

I must pause again, to crowd -together one or 
two explanations of the references to music in 
my own writings hitherto, which I can here sum 
by asking the reader to compare the use of the 
voice in war, beginning with the cry of Achilles 
on the Greek wall, down to what may be named 
as the two great instances of modern choral war- 
song: the singing of the known Church-hymn* 
at the Battle of Leuthen (“ Friedrich,” vol. ii., 
p. 259), in which “ five-and twenty thousand vic¬ 
tor voices joined”: 

“Now thank God one and all, 

With heart, with voice, with hands, 

Who wonders great hath done 
To us and to all lands;”— 

.and, on the counter side, the song of the Mar¬ 
seillaise on the march to Paris, which began the 


* Rsatm, I believe, rather; but see my separate notes 
on St. Louis' Psalter (now in preparation). 




IV. JOANJVA'S CARE. 113 

conquests of the French Revolution, in turning 
the tide of its enemies. Compare these, I say, 
with the debased use of modem military bands 
at dinners and dances, which inaugurate such 
victory as we had at the Battle of Balaclava, and 
the modern no-Battle of the Baltic, when our 
entire war fleet, a vast job of ironmongers, re¬ 
treated, under Sir C. Napier, from before the 
Russian fortress of Cronstadt. 

I preface with this question the repetition of 
what I have always taught, that the Voice is the 
eternal musical instrument of heaven and earth, 
from angels down to birds. Half way between 
them, my little Joanie sang me yesterday, 13th 
May, 1889, “ Farewell, Manchester,’' and “ Gold¬ 
en Slumbers,” two pieces of consummate melody, 
which can only be expressed by the voice, and 
belonging to the group of like melodies which 
have been, not invented, but inspired, to all na¬ 
tions in the days of their loyalty to God, to their 
prince, and to themselves. That Manchester 
has since become the funnel of a volcano, which, 
not content with vomiting pestilence, gorges the 
whole rain of heaven, that falls over a district as 
distant as the ancient Scottish border,—is not 
indeed wholly Manchester’s fault, nor altogether 
Charles Stuart’s fault; the beginning of both 
faults is in the substitution of mercenary armies 
for the troops of nations led by their kings. Had 


IV. JOAXXA'S CARE . 


I 14 

Queen Mary led, like Zenobia, at Langside; had 
Charles I. charged instead of Prince Rupert at 
Naseby; and Prince Edward bade Lochiel fol¬ 
low him at Culloden, we should not to-day have 
been debating who was to be our king at Bir¬ 
mingham or Glasgow. For the rest I take the 
bye-help that Fors gives me in this record of the 
power of a bird’s voice only.* 

But the distinction of the music of Scotland 
from every other is in its association with sweet¬ 
er natural sounds, and filling a deeper silence. 
As Fors also ordered it, yesterday afternoon, be¬ 
fore J oanie sang these songs to me, I had been, 
for the first time since my return from Venice, 

* “ An extraordinary scene is to be witnessed every 
evening at Leicester in the freemen’s allotment gardens, 
where a nightingale has established itself. The midnight 
songster was first heard a week ago, and every evening 
hundreds of people line the roads near the trees where the 
bird has his haunt. The crowds patiently wait till the 
music begins, and the bulk of the listeners remain till mid¬ 
night, while a number of enthusiasts linger till one and 
two o’clock in the morning. Strange to say, the bird 
usually sings in a large thorn bush just over the mouth of 
the tunnel of the Midland main line, but the songster is 
heedless of noise, and smoke, and steam, his stream of 
song being uninterrupted for four or five hours every 
night. So large has been the throng of listeners that the 
chief constable has drafted a number of policemen to 
maintain order and prevent damage .”—Pall Mall Gazette, 
May nth, 1889 . 



IV. JOANNA'S CARE . 115 

down to the shore of my own lake, with her and 
.her two youngest children, at the little promon¬ 
tory of shingle thrown out into it by the only 
mountain brook on this eastern side (Beck 
Deven), which commands the windings of its 
wooded shore under Furness Fells, and the 
calm of its fairest expanse of mirror wave,—a 
scene which is in general almost melancholy in 
its perfect solitude; but, when the woods are in 
their gladness, and the green—how much purer, 
how much softer than ever emerald!—of their 
unsullied spring, and the light of dawning sum¬ 
mer, possessing alike the clouds and mountains 
.of the west,—it is, literally, one of the most 
beautiful and strange remnants of all that was 
once most sacred in this British land,—all to 
which we owe, whether the heart, or the voice, 
of the Douglas “ tender and true,” or the min¬ 
strel of the Eildons, or the bard of Plynlimmon, 
or the Ellen of the lonely Isle,— to whose lips 
Scott has entrusted the most beautiful Ave Maria 
that was ever sung, and which can never be sung 
rightly again until it is remembered that the 
harp is the true ancient instrument of Scotland, 
as well as of Ireland.* 

* Although the violin was known as early as 1270, and 
occurs again and again in French and Italian sculpture and 
illumination, its introduction, in superseding both the 
•voice, the golden bell, and the silver trumpet, was entirely 




IK JOANNA'S CARE . 


116 

I am afraid of being diverted too far from Sol¬ 
way Moss, and must ask the reader to look back 
to my description of the Spirit of music in the 
Spanish chapel at Florence (“ The Strait Gate/” 
pages 134 and 135), remembering only this pas¬ 
sage at the beginning of it, “ After learning to 
reason, you will learn to sing: for you will want 
to. There is much reason for singing in the 

owing to the demoralization of the Spanish kingdom in 
Naples, of which Evelyn writes in 1644, " The building 
of the city is, for the size, the most magnificent in Europe. 
To it belongeth three thousand churches and monasteries, 
and those best built and adorned of any in Italy. They 
greatly affect the Spanish gravity in their habit, delight 
in good horses, the streets are full of gallants on horse¬ 
back, and in coaches and sedans, from hence first brought 
into England by Sir Sanders Duncomb; the country people 
so jovial, and addicted to music, that the very husbandmen 
almost universally play on the guitar, singingand compos¬ 
ing songs in praise of their sweethearts, and will common¬ 
ly go to the field with their fiddle,—they are merry, witty, 
and genial, all which I attribute to the excellent quality of 
the air." 

What Evelyn means by the fiddle is not quite certain, 
since he himself, going to study ‘'in Padua, far beyond 
the sea," there learned to play on "ye theorba, taught by 
Signior Dominico Bassano, who had a daughter married 
to a doctor of laws, that played and sung to nine several 
instruments, with that skill and addresse as few masters 
in Italy exceeded her; she likewise composed divers ex¬ 
cellent pieces. I had never seen any play on the Naples 
viol before." 







IV. JOANNA'S CARE. 


II 7 


sweet world, when one thinks rightly of it. None 
for grumbling, provided always you have entered 
in at the strait gate. You will sing all along the 
road then, in a little while, in a manner pleasant 
for other people to hear.” 

I will only return to Scott for one half page 
more, in which he has contrasted with his ut¬ 
most masterhood the impressions of English and 
Scottish landscape. Few scenes of the world 
have been oftener described, with the utmost 
skill and sincerity of authors, than the view from 
Richmond Hill sixty years since; but none can 
be compared with the ten lines in “ The Heart 
of Midlothian,” edition of 1830, page 374. “ A 

huge sea of verdure, with crossing and intersect¬ 
ing promontories of massive and tufted groves, 
was tenanted by numberless flocks and herds, 
which seemed to wander unrestrained, and un¬ 
bounded, through the rich pastures. The 
Thames, here turreted with villas, and there gar¬ 
landed with forests, moved on slowly and plac¬ 
idly, like the mighty monarch of the scene, to 
whom all its other beauties were but accessories, 
and bore on his bosom a hundred barks and 
skiffs, whose white sails and gaily fluttering pen¬ 
nons gave life to the whole. 

“ As the Duke of Argyle looked on this inimi¬ 
table landscape, his thoughts naturally reverted 
to his own more grand and scarce less beautiful 



Il8 IV. JOANNA'S CARE . 

domains of Inverary. ‘ This is a fine scene/ he 
said to his companion, curious perhaps to draw 
out her sentiments; ‘we have nothing like it in 
Scotland.’ £ It’s braw rich feeding for the 
cows, and they have a fine breed o’ cattle here,’" 
replied Jeanie; ‘but I like just as weel to look 
at the craigs of Arthur’s Seat, and the sea com¬ 
ing in ayont them, as at a’ thae muckle trees.' ” 

I do not know how often I have already vainly 
dwelt on the vulgarity and vainness of the pride 
in mere magnitude of timber which began in 
Evelyn’s “ Sylva,” and now is endlessly measur¬ 
ing, whether Californian pines or Parisian tow¬ 
ers,—of which, though they could darken conti¬ 
nents, and hide the stars, the entire substance,, 
cost, and pleasure are not worth one gleam of 
leafage in Kelvin Grove, or glow of rowan tree 
by the banks of Earn, or branch of wild rose of 
Hazeldean;—but I may forget, unless I speak of 
it here, a walk in Scott’s own haunt of Rhymer’s 
Glen,* where the brook is narrowest in its sand- 

' * “ Captain Adam Ferguson, who had written, from 
the lines of Torres Vedras, his hopes of finding, when the 
war should be over, some sheltering cottage upoq the 
Tweed, within a walk of Abbotsford, was delighted to 
see his dreams realized; and the family took up their res¬ 
idence next spring at the new house of Toftfield, on which 
Scott then bestowed, at the ladies’ request, the name of 
Httntley Bttrnj —this more harmonious designation being 
taken from the mountain brook which passes through its 



IV. JOANNA'S CAIN 


119 

stone bed, and Mary Ker stopped to gather a wild 
rose for me. Her brother, then the youngest 
captain in the English navy, afterwards gave his 
pure soul up to his Captain, Christ,—not like 
banished Norfolk, but becoming a monk in the 
Jesuits' College, Hampton. 

And still I have not room enough to say what 
I should like of Joanie’s rarest, if not chiefest 
merit, her beautiful dancing. Real dancing, not 
jumping, or whirling, or trotting, or jigging, but 
dancing,—like Green Mantle’s in “ Redgaunt- 
let,” winning applause from men and gods, 
whether the fishermen and ocean Gods of Sol¬ 
way, or the marchmen and mountain Gods of 
Cheviot.* Rarest, nowadays, of all the gifts of 

grounds and garden,—the same famous in tradition as 
the scene of Thomas the Rhymer’s interviews with the 
Queen of Fairy. 

‘ ‘ On completing this purchase, Scott writes to John 
Ballantyne:—‘ Dear John,—I have closed with Usher for 
his beautiful patrimony, which makes me a great laird. I 
am afraid the people will take me up for coining. Indeed 
these novels, while their attractions last, are something 
like it. I am very glad of yotir good prospects. Still I 
cry, Prudence! Prudence! Yours truly, W. S.’”— Lock¬ 
hart's “Life," vol. iv., page 82. 

* I must here once for all explain distinctly to the most 
matter-of-fact reader, the sense in which throughout all 
my earnest writing of the last twenty years I use the plu¬ 
ral word “ gods.” I mean by it, the totalit}^ of spiritual 
powers, delegated by the Lord of the universe to do, in 




120 


IV. JOAKMA'S CARE. 


cultivated womankind. It used to be said of a 
Swiss girl, in terms of commendation, she “ prays 

their several heights, or offices, parts of His will respect¬ 
ing men, or the world that man is imprisoned in;—not as 
myself knowing, or in security believing, that there are 
such, but in meekness accepting the testimony and belief 
of all ages, to the presence, in heaven and earth, of an¬ 
gels, principalities, powers, thrones, and the like,—with 
genii, fairies, or spirits ministering and guardian, or de¬ 
stroying or tempting; or aiding good work and inspiring 
the mightiest. For all these, I take the general word 
“ gods,” as the best understood in all languages, and the 
truest and widest in meaning, including the minor ones of 
seraph, cherub, ghost, wraith, and the like; and myself 
knowing for an indisputable fact, that no true happiness 
exists, nor is any good work ever done by human crea¬ 
tures, but in the sense or imagination of such presences. 
The following passage from the first volume of “ Fors 
'Clavigera” gives example of the sense in which I most 
literally and earnestly refer to them:— 

“You think it a great triumph to make the sun draw 
brown landscapes for you! That was also a discovery, 
and some day may be useful. But the sun had drawn 
landscapes before for you, not in brown, but in green, 
and blue, and all imaginable colours, here in England. 
Not one of you ever looked at them, then; not one of 
you cares for the loss of them, now, when you have shut 
the sun out with smoke, so that he can draw nothing more, 
except brown blots through a hole in a box. There was 
a rocky valley between Buxton and Bakewell, once upon 
a time, divine as the vale of Tempe; you might have seen 
the gods there morning and evening,—Apollo and all the 
sweet Muses of the Light, walking in fair procession on 



IV. JOANNA'S CARE . 


121 


well and dances well;” but now, no human crea¬ 
ture can pray at the pace of our common pray¬ 
ers, or dance at the pace of popular gavottes,— 
more especially the last; for however fast the 
clergyman may gabble, or the choir-boys yowl, 
their psalms, an earnest reader can always think 
his prayer, to the end of the verse; but no mor¬ 
tal footing can give either the right accent, or 
the due pause, in any beautiful step, at the pace 
of modern waltz or polka music. Nay, even the 
last quadrille I ever saw well danced (and 
would have given half my wits to have joined 
hands in), by Jessie and Vicky Vokes, with 
Fred and Rosina, was in truth not a quadrille, or 
four-square dance, but a beautifully flying romp. 
But Joanie could always dance everthing right¬ 
ly* having not only the brightest light and 

the lawns of it, and to and fro among the pinnacles of its 
crags. You cared neither for gods nor grass, but for 
cash (which you did not know the way to get). You 
thought you could get it by what the Times calls “ Rail¬ 
road Enterprise.” You enterprised a railroad through 
the valley, you blasted its rocks away, heaped thousands 
of tons of shale into its lovely stream. The valley is 
gone, and the gods with it; and now, every fool in Bux¬ 
ton can be at Bakewell in half-an-hour, and every fool ia 
Bakewell at Buxton; which you think a lucrative process 
of exchange, you Fools everywhere!” 

* Of right dancing, in its use on the stage, see the re¬ 
peated notices in “ Time and Tide.” Here is the most 



122 


IV. JOANNA'S CARE. 


warmth of heart, but a faultless foot; faultless 
in freedom—never narrowed, or lifted into point 
or arch by its boot or heel, but level, and at ease, 
small, almost to a fault, and in its swiftest steps 
rising and falling with the gentleness which only 
Eyron has found words for— 

“ Naked foot, 

That shines like snow—and falls on earth as mute.” 

The modern artificial ideal being,-on the con- 

careful one:—“ She did it beautifully and simply, as a 
child ought to dance. She was not an infant prodigy; 
there was no evidence, in the finish or strength of her 
motion, that she had been put to continual torture through 
half her eight or nine years. She did nothing more than 
any child, well taught, but painlessly, might do. She 
caricatured no older person,—attempted no curious or 
fantastic skill. She was dressed decently,—she moved 
decently,—she looked and behaved innocently,—and she 
danced her joyful dance with perfect grace, spirit, sweet¬ 
ness, and self-forgetfulness. And through all the vast 
theatre, full of English fathers and mothers and children, 
there was not one hand lifted to give her sign of praise but 
mine. 

“ Presently after this came on the forty thieves, who, 
as I told you, were girls; and there being no thieving to 
be presently done, and time hanging heavy on their 
hands, arms, and legs, the forty thief-girls proceeded to 
light forty cigars. Whereupon the British public gave 
them a round of applause. 

“Whereupon I fell a-thinking; and saw little more of 
the piece, except as an ugly and disturbing dream.” 



IV, JOANNA'S CARE. 123 

trary, expressed by the manner of stamp or tap, 
as in the Laureate’s line— 

“ She tapped her tiny silken-sandalled foot.” 

From which type the way is short, and had 
since been traversed quickly, to the conditions 
of patten, clog, golosh, and high-heeled bottines, 
with the real back of the foot thrown behind 
the ankle like a negress^s, which have distressed 
alike, and disgraced, all feminine motion for the 
last quarter of a century,—the slight harebell 
having little chance enough of raising its head, 
once well under the hoofs of our proud maiden¬ 
hood, decorate with dead robins, transfixed 
humming birds, and hothouse flowers,—for its 
“ Wedding March by Mendelssohn.” To think 
that there is not enough love or praise in all 
Europe and America to invent one other tune 
for the poor things to strut to! 

I draw back to my own home, twenty years 
ago, permitted to thank Heaven once more for 
the peace, and hope, and loveliness of it, and 
the Elysian walks with Joanie, and Paradisiacal 
with Rosie, under the peach-blossom branches 
by the little glittering stream which I had 
paved with crystal for them. I had built be¬ 
hind the highest cluster of laurels a reservoir, 
from which, on sunny afternoons, I could let a 
quite rippling film of water run for a couple of 
hours down behind the hayfield, where the grass 



124 


IV. JOANNA'S CARE. 


in spring still grew fresh and deep. There used 
to be always a corncrake or two in it. Twilight 
after twilight I have hunted that bird, and never 
once got glimpse of it: the voice was always at 
the other side of the field, or in the inscrutable 
air or earth. And the little stream had its 
falls, and pools, and imaginary lakes. Here and 
there it laid for itself lines of graceful sand ; 
there and here it lost itself under beads of 
chalcedony. It wasn’t the Liffey, nor the Nith, 
nor the Wandel; but the two girls were surely 
a little cruel to call it “ The Gutter ”! Happiest 
times, for all of us, that ever were to be; not 
but that Joanie and her Arthur are giddy 
enough, both of them yet, with their five little 
ones, but they have been sorely anxious about 
me, and I have been sorrowful enough for my¬ 
self, since ever I lost sight of that peach-blos¬ 
som avenue. “ Eden-land ” Rosie calls it some¬ 
times in her letters. Whether its tiny river 
were of the waters of Abana, or Euphrates, or 
Thamesis, I know not, but they were sweeter to 
my thirst than the fountains of Trevi or Branda. 

How things bind and blend themselves to¬ 
gether! The last time I saw the Fountain of 
Trevi, it was from Arthur’s father’s room— 
Joseph Severn’s, where we both took Joanie to 
see him in 1872, and the old man made a sweet 
drawing of his pretty daughter-in-law, now in 





IV. JOANNA'S CARE 


12$ 


h.er schoolroom; he himself then eager in finish¬ 
ing his last picture of the Marriage in Cana, 
which he had caused to take place under a 
vine trellis, and delighted himself by painting 
the crystal and ruby glittering of the changing 
rivulet of water out of the Greek vase, glowing 
into wine. FonteBranda I last saw with Charles 
Norton,* under the same arches where Dante 


* I must here say of Joanna and Charles Norton this 
much farther, that they were mostly of a mind in the ad¬ 
vice they gave me about my books; and though Joan 
was, as it must have been already enough seen, a true- 
bred Jacobite, she curiously objected to my early Catholic 
opinions as roundly as either Norton or John P. Robin¬ 
son. The three of them—not counting Lady Trevelyan 
or little Connie, (all together Jive opponent powers)— 
may be held practically answerable for my having never 
followed up the historic study began in Val d’Arno, for 
it chanced that, alike in Florence, Siena, and Rome, all 
these friends, tutors, or enchantresses were at different 
times amusing themselves when I was at my hardest 
work; and many happy days were spent by all of us in 
somewhat luxurious hotel life, when by rights I should 
have been still under Padre Tino in the sacristy of Assisi 
or Cardinal Agostini at Venice, or the Pope himself at 
Rome, with my much older friend than any of these, Mr. 
Rawdon Brown’s perfectly faithful and loving servant 
Antonio. Of Joanna’s and Connie’s care of me some 
further history will certainly, if I live, be given in No. 
VII., “ The Rainbows of Giesbach;” of Charles Nor¬ 
ton’s visit to me there also. 



126 


IV, JOANNA'S CARE, 


saw it. We drank of it together, and walked 
together that evening on the hills above, where 
the fireflies among the scented thickets shone fit¬ 
fully in the still undarkened air. How they 
shone! moving like fine-broken starlight through 
the purple leaves. How they shone! through 
the sunset that faded into thunderous night as I 
entered Siena three days before, the white edges 
of the mountainous clouds still lighted from the 
west, and the openly golden sky calm behind the 
Gate of Siena’s heart, with its still golden words, 
“ Cor magis tibi Sena pandit,” and the fireflies 
everywhere in sky and cloud rising and falling, 
mixed with the lightning, and more intense than 
the stars. 

Brantwood, 

June igt/ij 1889. 





