-v 


TRAVELS 


IN      THE 


TWO    SICILIES, 


B  Y 

f 


HENRY     SWINBURNE,    Efq. 


I  N 


The  Years  1777,  1778,  *779>  and  1780. 


VOL.     I. 


QUID    VERUM    ATQUE    DECENS    CURO —  HOR. 


LONDON 


PRINTED    FOR     P.  ELMSLY,     IN    THE    STRAND. 

M.DCC.LXXXIII. 


DQr 

U 

PREFACE. 


I  CANNOT  prefume  to  print  a  Tour  through  the 
Two  Sicilies,  without  offering  an  apology  for  its  appear- 
ance,  They  have  been  fo  often  defcribed,  that  nothing 
but  novelty  of  matter  can  excufe  a  frefh  attempt.  Our 
earliefl:  education  has  made  us  acquainted  with  thofe 
claflic  regions ;  Poetry  and  Hiftory  have  rendered  their 
topography  familiar  to  us,  and  every  fchool-boy  can  point 
out  the  ruins  of  Magna  Graecia  and  Sicily.  No  country, 
Latium  alone  excepted,  has  fo  frequently  employed  the 
pen  of  the  antiquary;  and  the  obfervations  made  by  tra- 
vellers of  a  political  turn  may  be  fuppofed  to  have  can- 
vailed  fufficiently  the  advantages  as  well  as  inconveniences 
of  its  prefent  fituation. 

Under  the  difcouragement  arifing  from  this  anticipation, 
and  the  unpromifing  circumftance  of  pafiing  over  ground 
often  and  nicely  examined,  I  yet  do  not  defpair  of  convey- 
ing fuch  information  on  many  heads,  as  may  juflify  my 
boldnefs  to  the  Reader,  if,  from  a  laudable  defire  of 
improvement,  any  will  venture  with  me  along  fo  beaten  a 
track.  Part  of  my  route  is  frefh  land;  and  where  I  fhali 
be  under  the  irkfome  neceility  of  treading  in  the  footfleps 

A   2  of 


r\ 


IV 


PREFACE. 

of  preceding  authors,  1  hope  fomething  will  be  {truck  out 
that  has  efcaped  their  penetration.  Far  be  it  from  me, 
wantonly,  to  impugn  their  authority,  or  detract  from  their 
merits ;  I  only  wifli  to  infinuate,  that,  as  two  perfons 
feldom  consider  an  object  in  the  fame  point  of  view,  and 
are  ftill  more  rarely  led  by  their  perceptions  to  a  combina- 
tion of  ideas  exactly  fimilar,  it  is  but  reafonable  to  hope 
that  many  openings  may  be  left  for  the  remarks  of  fub- 
fequent  obfervers*.  When  allowances  are  made  for  dif- 
ference of  feafons,  diverfity  of  ftudies,  occafional  informa- 
tion, and  many  other  accidental  helps,  we  fhall  find  an 
ample  field  (till  remain  for  our  curiofity  to  range  in :  to 
fay  nothing  of  the  revolutions,  moral,  phylical  and  politi- 
cal, effectuated  by  the  hand  of  Time,  which,  however  iiowly 
and  imperceptibly  it  may  perform  its  operations,  acts 
with  ifrefiltible  force  upon  the  ftate  both  of  nature  and 
of  man.  In  the  fouthern  parts  of  Italy,  where  the  elements 
ferment  with  more  than  ordinary  violence,  where  changes 
in  o-overnment  have  fucceeded  each  other  with  uncommon 
rapidity,  the  variations  are  more  precipitate, .  the  effects 
more  ftriking. 

In  the  courfe  of  feventeen  centuries,  the  face  of  things 
has  been  fo  much  altered,  that  the  defcriptions  given  by 
the  ancient  dailies  can  feldom  interfere  with  thofe  of  a 
modern  writer.      The  later  Latin  and  Italian  authors,  who 

*  Jamais  deux  hommes  ne  jugerent  pareillement  de  mefme  chofe.  Et  eft 
impoffible  de  voir  deux  opinions  femblables  exaclement,  non  feulement  de 
divers  hommes,  mais  en  mefme  homme  a  diverfes  heures. 

ESSAIS  DE  MoNTAGNE. 

have 


PREFACE. 

have  treated  thefe  fubje&s,  are  but  little  known  or  read  in 
England,  and  moft  of  them  are  rather  difcufTers  of  de- 
tached points  of  hiftory  and  geography,  than  general 
circumambulatory  obfervers.  They  were  too  little  acquaint- 
ed with  the  laws  and  cuPcoms  of  foreign  nations,  to  be  able 
to  form  juft  criticifms  upon  thofe  of  their  own  country ; 
and  without  fome  folid  grounds  for  comparifon,  a  writer 
will  bewilder  himfelf  in  his  reafonings,  and  betray  in  each 
page  that  he  is  blinded  and  milled  by  ignorance  and 
vanity. 

How  far  my  endeavours  to  inftruct  may  be  rendered 
fuperfluous  by  any  recent  accounts  is  a  point  which  the 
voice  of  the  Public  has  alone  a  right  to  determine.  I  wait 
the  deciilon  with  refpect,  but  without  fear,  confcious  of 
having  done  my  utmoft  to  deferve  its  indulgence  ;  for  to 
my  own  obfervations,  and  the  information  derived  from 
bocks,  I  have  added  many  interefting  details  communicated 
to  me  by  learned  and  curious  perfons  of  the  kingdom  of 
Naples  *. 

Wherever  my  opinions  deviate  from  thofe  of  my  pre- 
deceffors,  I  have  fludied  to  convey  my  difTent  in  fuch 
diffident  terms,  as  may  avoid  all  appearance  of  an  attack  on 
the  literary  reputation  of  thofe  from  whom  I  prcfume  to 
differ   in  fentiment:   but   this  delicacy  does  not  prevail  fo 

*■  I  am  particularly  indebted  to  Monfignor  Capectlatro,  Archbifhopof  Ta- 
rantoj  Counfellor  Monfignor  Galiani ;  D.  Filippo  Brigante  Patrizio  di  Gal- 
lipoli  •,  D.  Pafquale  Bum;  D.  Domenico  Cirillo;  George  Hart,  Efquire* 
Pat.rc  Antonio  Minafi,  ol  the  order  of  St.  Dominick;  D.  Domenico  Miaafij, 
Acci^reic  ci'  Molocchio ;  ana  D.  Giovanni  Prefta  of  Gallipoli, 


m  PREFACE, 

far  as  to  obftruct  the  liberty  of  judging  for  myfelf;  the 
maxim  of  nutlius  jurare  in  verba,  constitutes  the  very  fpirit 
of  my  undertaking.  In  this  freedom,  and  a  fcrupulous 
attention  to  truth,  coniifted  the  chief,  perhaps  the  only 
merit  of  my  Spanifh  Tour.  The  fame  principle  (hall  direct 
my  pen  throughout  the  prefent  work.  By  thus  purfuing 
the  dull  plain  track  of  truth,  I  fhall,  no  doubt,  run  the 
rifle  of  diipleafing  fome  of  my  Readers ;  but,  I  confefs, 
1  cannot  condefcend  to  keep  their  attention  alive  with 
fiction,  be  it  ever  fo  agreeable.  According  to  my  plan, 
the  effufions  of  imagination  are  debarred  all  mare  in  the 
compofition:  I  deny  myfelf  the  ufual  privilege  of  working 
up  a  trivial  event  into  a  fentimental  or  laughable  adventure; 
the  lively  dialogue  with  perfons  who  never  honoured  me 
with  their  confidence,  is  excluded ;  nor  do  I  allow  myfelf 
to  drefs  up  the  trite  ftory  of  an  old  book  of  jefts,  and  pafs  it 
off  for  the  fcandalous  chronicle  of  the  day. 

By  refuiing  the  afliftance  of  fuch  ready  auxiliaries,  I  am 
aware  that  I  weaken  my  force,  and  contract  the  circle  of 
entertainment  to  a  degree  many  people  will  difapprove  of; 
but  I  intreat  them  to  confider,  that  I  am  writing  the 
account  of  a  real  Tour,  and  not  an  imitation  of  Sterne's 
Sentimental  Journey. 

Some  Critics,  I  am  told,  have  imputed  as  a  blemifh  to 
my  Letters  on  Spain,   that  I  was  rather  an  exact   defcriber 
of   ftill   life,    than  an   acute  delineator  of    characters    and  ' 
manners.     To  this  charge  I  can  only  anlvver,    that  having 
detected   former  writers   in   many  errors,   which   they  had 

2  fallen 


PREFACE. 

fallen  into  through  haftinefs,  mifconception,  or  credulity, 
it  was  natural  i  mould  give  into  the  oppofite  extreme,  and, 
by  advancing  nothing  but  what  I  had  vouchers  for,  lay 
myfelf  open  to  an  accufation  of  exceflive  caution,  and 
confequently  dulnefs. 

I  am  apprehenfive  the  fame  cenfure  will  be  pafied  upon 
my  prefent  publication;  but  I  choofe  to  imitate  the  fatif- 
factory  drynefs  of  an  authentic  Gazette,  rather  than,  like  a 
fprightly  Morning-Paper,  amufe  and  miilead,  by  inter- 
weaving a  thoufand  pleating  impoftures  with  half  a  dozen 
real  facts. 

The  longer  any  man  of  candour  refides  in  a  foreign 
country,  the  greater  difficulty  he  finds  in  giving  a  character 
of  its  inhabitants.  He  perceives  fo  many  nice  varieties, 
fo  many  exceptions  to  general  rules,  as  almoH:  deftroy 
his  hopes  of  drawing  up  one  comprehenlive  defcription 
of  them:  he  every  day  becomes  more  confcious  of  the 
prefumption  of  thofe  who  run  and  read;  and,  what  is  worfe, 
write.  Unfortunately,  it  is  from  fuch  rapid  obfervations 
that  raoft  people  are  to  derive  their  knowledge  of  foreign 
nations ;  and  I  leave  it  to  the  impartial  to  decide  upon  the 
probability  of  any  refemblance  exifting  in  fuch  portraits.  I 
have  read  the  travels  of  one  of  thefe  darning  writers  *,  who 
allots  a  whole  chapter,  with  a  title  in  capitals,  to  the 
character  and  manners  of  the  Neapolitans,  which  points  he 

*  Voyage  de  France,  d'Eipagne,  de  Portugal,  et  d'ltalie,  par  Mr.  S - 

(Silhouette)  in  17300 

Handles 


VII 


wiu  PREFACE. 

liandles  with  as  much  decifivenefs,  as  if  he  -had  refided 
forty  years  at  Naples  in  quality  of  fpy.  Upon  comparing 
the  dates  of  his  Journal,  it  appears,  that  his  whole  ftay  in 
that  city  was  exactly  five  days  and  a  half,  part  of  which 
was  fpent  upon  Mount  Vefuvius,  and  among  the  curiofities 
of  Puzzuoli. 

My  ftyle  has  been  by  fome  thought  deficient  in  elegance 
and  'refinement ;  but  until  the  pofitive  ideas  we  are  to 
attach  to  thefe  words  be  afcertained  and  generally  agreed 
upon,  I  {hall  not  attempt  to  emerge  out  of  my  humble 
fphere.  They  have  of  late  been  much  ufed,  perhaps  mis- 
applied ;  and  many  peifons  of  tafte  and  knowledge  in  our 
language  are  of  opinion,  that  the  terms  elegant  and  refined 
have  been  frequently  employed  in  fpeaking  of  writings, 
where  the  epithets,  fuftian  and  affected,  would  have  been 
more  applicable.  They  pretend,  that  many  of  our  modern 
compositions  verge  to  that  fimpering  ftyle  known  in  France 
by  the  name  of  precieux,  which  breaks  out  in  an  unne- 
cessary adoption  of  foreign  and  learned  phrafes,  a  fondnefs 
for  founding  words  to  exprefs  common  ideas,  and  a  con- 
tinual round  of  metaphorical  and  bombaflical  imagery.  I 
do  not  know  how  far  thefe  critics  may  have  reafon  on  their 
fide,  but  as  I  feel  no  ambition  to  try  any  daring  flights,  I 
{hall  reft  contented,  if  1  am  allowed  in  this  work  the  fame 
merits  that  were  granted  me  in  my  Spaniih  Tour,  viz. 
truth,  perfpicuity,  and  common  fenfe. 


TABLE     of     CONTENTS 

O  F    T  H  E 

FIRST      VOLUME. 


yl  CHRONOLOGICAL  Table  of  the  Sovereigns  of  the  Two 

^  ■*■           Sicilies,  placed  before                 -                     -  Page  xvii 

Tables  of  Coins,  Weights,  and  Meafures.              -                -  xvii 

A  Geographical  Vieiv  of  the  Kingdom  of  Naples.                 -  xxi 

A   Short    SKETCH  of  the    HISTORY   of    the 
KINGDOM    of    NAPLES, 

I.  Fabulous  Times — Greeks.— —2.  Romans. 3.  Goths.-       4.  Lower 

Greek  Empire. 5.  Lombards. 6.  Normans. 7.  Robert  Guif- 

card — Roger — William. 8.    Roger,    King   William    the   Firfl — 

William  the  Second — Tancred — William  the  Third. 9.  Szvabians 

— Henry  and   Conftantia — Frederick    the   Firfl — Conrad — Manfred. 

• 10.  Angevines — Charles  the  Fuji — Charles  the  Second — Robert — 

Joan. 11.  Durazzians — Charles  the  Third — Ladi/laus—Joan  the 

Second. 12.  Aragonefe-~Alphonfus  the  Firfl — Ferdinand  the  Firjl 

—Alpbonfus    the    Second — Ferdinand    the    Second — Frederick    the 

Second. 13.    Ferdinand   the   Third. 14.   Aufrians — Charles 

the    Fourth — Philip    the    Second — Philip     the    Third — Philip    the 

Fourth— Charles  the  Fifth. 15.   Philip  the  Fifth— Charles  the 

Sixth— Charles  the  Seventh— Ferdinand  the  Fourth.  -  1 

a  A  VOYAGE 


CONTENTS. 

A  VOYAGE  from  MARSEILLES  to  NAPLES,   1776. 

SECTION  I.  Departure  from  Marfeilles— Arrival  at  Povto-Ferraio  in 
Elba — Defcription  of  the  JJland — Its  Size — Proprietors — Climate — 
Compofuion — Produclions. Defcription  of  Porto -Ferraio.    Page  29 

SECT.  II.     Iron  Mines  of  Rio.  35 

SECT.  III.     Departure  from  Porto   Ferraio. Irregularity  of  the 

Needle. —  Channel  of  Piombino.'— Arrival  at  Porto  Longone.  40 

SECT.  IV.  Voyage  from  Porto- Longone.— Ifle  of  Pianofa. — Fate  of 
Aggrippa  P  of  humus. — Violent  Storm.— Cape  Circilli. — View  of  Vefi- 
I'ius. — Ponza  1/les. — Vcntotiene. — Illu/lrious  Perfons  bani/ljed  thither. 
— Procida. — Arrival  at  Naples.  43 

NAPLES  and  its  ENVIRONS. 

SECT.  V.     Vefuvius.                 -                     -                         -  $0 

SECT.  VI.  Mufic  of  Naples. — Dances. — Drefs  and  Characler  of  the 
Women— of  the  Men. — Police. — Jurifprudence. — Population Mode  of 

Life.  -  59 

SECT.  VII.  Extent  of  the  Kingdom — Productions — Exports— Duties — 
Banks— Imports.  -  70 

SECT.  VIII.  Tour  of  the  Coafl  of  Sorrento— Stabia. — Ancient  Cham- 
bers opened. — Torre  del/a  Nunziat a— Manufactures.  — Caftelamare — 
Vico. — Bay  of  Sorrento.— City  of  Sorrento, — Villa  of  Pollius  Felix.     82 

JOURNEY    from   NAPLES    to   TARANTO. 

SECT.  IX.     Departure  from    the    Capital. — Aqueducls. — Campo    di 
Lautrec. — Siege  of  Naples  by  the  French  in  1528. — Plague. — Death 
of  Lautrec. — Firfl  Appearance  of  the  Lues  Venerea. — Santa  Maria  del 
Pianto. — Cemetery. — Ruins  of  P oggio  Reale. — River  Sebeto. — Plain  of 
JSola. — Culture. — Quarry  of  Lava.  -  -  91 

SECT.  X.     Nola Death   of  Augufus  and  Agrippa.— Invention   of 

Bells. — Life  of 'Brum.  -  -  "97 

2  SECT. 


CONTENTS. 

SECT.  XI.     Cimitile. — Road  into  Puglia.— Entrance  of  the  Appenine 
|^    Mountains. — Avella. — Ruins  of  Abdla.— Adventurous  Expedition  of 
Manfred— of  Rene— Character  of  Rene.— Montforte.— River  Sabato. 

Page  103 

SECT.  XII.  Avellino—its  Poffeffors.—Htfory  of  the  Family  of  Carac- 
cioli—Bank  of  Monte  Ciarletta.—Defcription  of AveW.no— Population- 
Produce — Fruits.  -  -  _  IC8 

SECT.  XIII.  Affinity  between  ancient  and  modern  Cuftoms. — Hair 
coloured— Funeral  Ceremonies. — Story  of  a  difconfolate  Widow.— Vine- 
drejje rs. —Dancing  Girls.— Attitudes Difloes—  Sailing.      -  113 

SECT.  XIV.  Atripalda. — Convent  of  Monte  Vergine—its  Hifory— 
William  of  Vercelh.— Miraculous  Piclure— Rules  of  the  Houfe.— Monu- 
ments. -  -  _  -  1 1 8 

SECT.  XV.     Volcanical    Soil.— Montefufcolo.— Ruins    of   Eculanum 

Frigcnto.— Hifory    of  a  Prief.—Moffetta ;     the   Amfancli  Valles.— 
Trevico.  -  -  -  _  J2r 

SECT.  XVI.  Ariano — Soil— Opinions  concerning  the  original  State  of 
this  Country— Frequency  of  Earthquakes  accounted  for.—Bovino. 
—Fro]  a.  -  -  _  !3r 

SECT.  XVII.    Foggia—its  Hifory- Tribunal— Of the  Foil  on  Sheep.— 

Account  of  its  EJlablijhment—Its  Produce Death  and  Char  abler  of 

Charles  the  Firf,   of  Anjou.  -  -  _  x  n  3 

SECT.  XVIII.     Ruins  of  Arpi.—Aprocina.— Ruins  of  Sipontum.—Man- 

frcdonia. — Saint  Angelo  of  Garganus. — Cavern. — Apparition  of  St. 

Michael.  -  -  -  -         147 

SECT.  XIX.  Lucera,  its  Hi/lory. — EfablifJjmcnt  of  the  Saracens 
there— their  Expufion. — Death  and  Characler  of  the  Emperor  Fre- 
derick the  Second. — Plains  and  Heats  of  Pug lia — Hunting  Matches 

La  Cerignola. — French  defeated.  -  -  jcj 

SECT.  XX.     River  Ofanto.—Canufne  Bread.— Mode  of  Fhrefhing 

Ruins  of  Cannte. — Battle  of  Canine.  -  -  165 

a  2  SECT, 


:;i 


xn 


CONTENTS. 

SECT.  XXI.  Ruins  of  Salapia— Magic  Cave—Barldta—Architeclure 
—Colofal  Statue.— -Hi/lory  of '  Barletta.  -  -       Page  173 

SECT.  XXII.  Watch- Houfes.—Trani.—Difpofition  of  the  People — 
Produclions— Buildings— Duels.  -  -  179 

SECT.  XXIII.  Bifceglia. — Death  and  Char acler  of  Lewis  of  An}  on.— 
Blood  of  St.  Pantaleon.— Molfett  a.— Giovenazzo.— Decollation  of  its 
'Territory  by  the  Pope  s  Troops. — Produclions.  -  -185 

SECT.  XXIV.  Bari— Cathedral— Priory  of  St.  Nicholas— Tomb  cf 
Queen  Bona— Miraculous  Manna— Coflle— Paintings— Etrufcan  Vafes— 
Trade.  -  -  -  191 

SECT.  XXV.  Hiftory  of  Bari—Befieged  by  the  Normans— Poffeffors — 
Hiflory  of  John  Pipino—Mola  di  Bari—Polignano-Monopo.i.  197 

SECT.  XXVI.     Ruins  of  Gnatia— Quality  of  Stone— exceffive  Heat- 
bad  Water — Way  of  taking  Turtle  Doves — Ofluni. — Errors  in  Gea- 
iphy.  -  205 


?ra 


SECT.  XXVII.  Reception  at  Francavilla — Harangues— Defcription 
of  the  Town— Foundation — Tenures — Dinner— Tragedy.  -        21-2 

SEC  r.  XXVIII.  Oria.—Bonifazi  Family.— Culture  of  Cotton.— Cafal- 
nuovo. — Dag  eaters. — Ruins  of  Manduria — Extraordinary  Well.    218 

TARANTO  and  its  ENVIRONS. 

SECT.  XXIX.     Lc  GrottaglieT—Galefur. — Account  of  the    Tarantihe 

Sheep.  -  -  -  -  2155 

SEC  T.  XXX.     Wall  offapygia.—Vale  of  Citrezze.—Visw  of  Toronto. 

Aqueducl. — Defcription  of  the  City. — Shell-Fijh.  -  232 

SECT.  XXXI.     Ruins  of  Tarentum.— Fiji)  from  which  the  Purple  Dye 

•was  extra  \ed—^  let  hod  of  ext railing.  -  -  237- 

SECT.  XXXII.     Mare  Piccolo. — Beds  of  Mufcles — Treatment  of  them. — 

Oyjlers— Nautilus — Coral — Pinna  Marina.  -  -  242 

SECT.  XXXIir.     Kinds    of  Fiflj — Duties — Wine-Grottos— G'trt  Ho  — 

Bridge. IJlanJs — Outer  Harbour — Fruits— Cultivation— Honey.    249 

t  SECT, 


CONTENTS. 

SECT.  XXXIV.     Origin  ofTarentum. — Firjl  Adventurers — Cretans. — 

Phalantus  and  the  Lacedemonians. — Introduction  of  Democracy — Pro- 

fpcrity— Traffic—Power— Arch)  tas.— -Degeneracy— Learning— Arts. 

Page  255 

SECT.  XXXV.  Foreign  Generals  employed — Pyrrhus. — War  with 
Rome. — Subjection  of  Tarentum. — Taken  by  Hannibal,  vuho  draws  his 
Fleet  over  the  JJlhmus .—Tarentum  again  fubdned  by  the  Romans — 
Decline. — Its  Lords. — Character  of  the  Inhabitants.  -  262 

JOURNEY  from  TARANTO  to  REGGIO. 

SECT.  XXXVI.  Departure  from  Taranto. — River  Taras. — Interview 
of  the  Triumvirs  on  the  Bafiento. — Remains  of  Met apontum— lis 
Hi/lory. — Pythagoras. — Deflate  State  of  the  Country.         -  271 

SECT.  XXXVII.  River  Agri-Farm  of  the  Jefuits.-Ruins  ofHera- 
clea. — Victory  gained  by  Pyrrhus  near  the  Sinno. — Entrance  of  Cala- 
bria.— Rofeto. — Cujloms    of  the    Calabriam — Marriages — Letting    of 

Farms — Difrefs  from    Oppreffion — Fecundity  of   the  Women Odd 

Notions.  -  -  -  278 

SECT.  XXXVIII.  Game-Latvs— Dogs— Gathering  of  Manna— Agri- 
culture— Buffaloes. — River  Cofcile. — Scite  of  Sybaris — Its  Hi/lory— 
Profperoits  State.  —  Defruclion .  —  Thurium,  —  Herodotus. — Augitfus, 
called  Thurinus.  -  —  -  2^- 

SECT.  XXXIX.     P^fcige    of  the  River  Crati. — Corigl'uno—Qran-e- 
Groves — Hujbandry — Compofition  of  the  Hills. — Roffano,   Account  of 
the  Baftlian  Monks  and  St.  Nilus..  -  -  2q8 

SECT.  XL.     Account  of  the  Gypfes.—Cariati. — Cattle  of  Calabria. 

Ciro-— Story  of  the   Warden  of  a    maritime  Tozuer. — Mode  of  dis- 
charging Cannon.  -  -  »c. 

SECT.  XLI.     Strongoli— Breed  of  Horfes.— Cot  rone— Nciv  Harbour 

Trade. — Hifiory  of  Croton—Greatue/s  and  DoivnfaL  -  o\z 

SECT.  XLII.     Voyage  round  the  Capes.  -Ruins  of  the  Temple  of  Juno.— . 

Charms  againf  Fire- Arms. — Iflaml  of  Calypfo.  —  ~     nzi- 

SECT.. 


•  •  * 


XIV 


CON. TENTS. 

SECT.  XLIII.  Cutro.—Uhieciali  BaJJa.—Baliafro.—St.  Thomas  Aqui- 
nas.— Cropani. — Hiflory  of  Don  Sebajlian.  —  Catanzaro.  Page  326 

SECT.  XLIV.  Squillace. — Cajfiodorus — Mode  offummoning  Debtors. — 
Pajfages  of  Horace  explained. — Stilo. — Scite  of  C anion. — La  Roccella. 

SECT.  XLV.  Gerace. — Ruins  of  Locri. — Hiflory  of  Locri. — Zalcucus 
the  Lawgiver — Poflfeffion  by  Evil  Spirits. — Story  of  a  Demoniac  Bite 
of  a  Viper.  -  -  -  340 

SECT.  XLVI.     Rich  Paflures Cape  Spartivento — Bova. — Account  of 

the  Albanefc — their  Arrival  in  the  Kingdom — Numbers — Language — 
Rites — Character.  -  -  -  34.7 

SECT.  XLVII.  View  of  Etna— Capo  deWAr mi.— Plain  of  Reggio.— 
Treatment  of  Silkworms— Regulations — Taxes.  -  354 

SECT.  XLVIII.  Fruits — Oranges — Olives — Palmtrees — Dates — Figs 
— Chefnuts. — Silver  Mine. — Defer  iption  of  Reggio. — La  Fata  Morgana. 

359 
JOURNEY  from  REGGIO  to  NAPLES. 

SECT.  XLIX.  Voyage  to  Gallipoli.—Defcription  of  that  City— Traffic 
— Oil  Trade — Agriculture — Cultivation  of  the  Olive  Tree — Experi- 
ments on  the  making  of  Oil — Species  of  Olive  Trees. — Hunting.       3G8 

Si.CT.  L.     Nardo. — Otranto—facked  by  the    Turks. — Itinerant  Mufi- 
cians — Specimen  of  their  Mufic. — Lecce — ArchiteQure — Char  abler  of 
the  People— Leccian  Mufic.  -  -  -  375 

SCCT.  LI.  Brindiji — Antiquities — Port — Bay — Columns  of  the  Light- 
Houfc  -Ruin  of  the  Harbour — Bad  Air — Depopulation — Attempts  to 
remedy  thefe  Evils — New  Channel  cut.  -  -         383 

SECT.  Lll.  Hiflory  of  Brindiji. — Dance  of  a  Tarantata — Probable  Ori- 
gin of  thefe  Dances. — Defcription  of  the  Tarantula.  -  390 

SECT.   LIII.       Trajan    Way.—Orobanche Bitonto.—Obelijk— Battle. 

— Ruvo. — Combat  at  Quarata. —  Cajlel  del  Monte. — Anuria Canofa — 

Its  Hifory — Antiquities — Monument  of  Bohemund. — Character  of  the 
Norman  Adventurers  -  396 

SECT. 


CONTENTS. 

SECT.  LIV.  Lavello — Death  of  Conrad— Venofa.— Church  of  the 
Trinity. — Suppofed  Bufl  of  Horace — His  Bandufian  Fountain. — Barile 
— Mount  Volt  ore. — Ruins  of Herdonia.  -  -  Page  405 

SECT.  LV.  Benevvito—Arch  of  Trajan— Antiquities — Cathedral— 
Hijlory  of  Benevenfo — Lombards — Dukes — Princes — Divifion  into 
Tivo  Principalities — Ruin.  -  -  -  410 

SECT.  LVI.  Walnut  Tree  of  the  Witches.— Battle.— Character  of 
Manfred. — AppianWay. — Montefarchio. — Furca  Caudina.—Arienzo. — 
Acerra. — Arrival  at  Naples,  -  -  4.1J 


XV 


ERRATA. 

Page  S9,  line  21,  for  ponti.     J  Ingtrit  ccl/a  read  ponti  ingtrit.     \Celfa. 
ioi,  7,  for  befla  read  bejlia. 

106,  — —  20,  for  fpirit,  had  read  _^>/Wf  ^W. 

107,  13,  for  rife,  at  read  rife  at. 

136,  6,   for  arbor  fuda  read  arior  Juda. 

iqo,  17,  for  fupplies  of  corn  from  other  countriei  read  other  countries  for  a  fupply 

of  corn. 
198,  — —    3,  for  bout  read  About. 

215,  5,  for  inchtfi'vely,  to  about  read  inclu/iiiely,  about, 

2  2Z,  7,  for  /A/'i  _/M?  read  this  fue. 

zz6,  5,   for  at  the  high  read  at  the  end  of  the  high. 

245,  —  10,  for  Lucrene  read  Lucrine. 

258,  17,  for  wjfels  fly  read  vejils  could  fly. 

260,  23,  for  Tarentorum  read  Tarentinorum. 

261, 16,  for  rf^ao  read  equo. 

274,  5,  for  properly  read  prof ufely. 

274,  21,  for  Metapontorum  read  Metapontinoruix. 

277,  19,  for  a  few  off"  miles  read  a  _/>w  aw7«  oy. 

309,  ___  23,  for  Carigliano  read  Corigliano. 

300, 25,  for  tracks  read  trafis. 

312,  9,  for  Philocktes  read  Philocleles. 

321,  1 1,  for  £/f£,  «fj$/  coarfe.  read  /-"£<&,  /&  r«f£r  coarfe, 

321,  '  1 6,  for  fallen  read  deftroyed. 

325,  6,  for  Ithican  read  Ithacan. 

325,  »  l6,  for  Itkica  read  Ithaca. 

330, 24,  for  Palermo.     After  read  Palermo,  after. 

346,         ■  25,  for  tufted  read  /«/ftf. 

360, 9,  for  rhindrezd  rind. 

395,  8,  for  /."£  read  /<£*. 

409,  — —    6,  for  7/v«^  ff«  «//  read  ^««^  Mtf  «»  «//. 


A  Genealogical  Table  of  the  Sovereigns  of  the  Two  Sicilies. 


S,rl,  ./  ru.ii. 


TancreJ  of  Hauteville. 
J    |      Putt,  ,f  PuSlie. 


E,rl,  ./  Suily 


WILLIAM 

r.rapras,  ob.  1046. 


DREUX,  HUMPHREY,  JEFFREY, 

1050.  10:7.  1039. 


WILLIAM, 
1127. 


K„t,  •/  «'/'"■ 
CHARLES 

of  Anjou,  fon  of 
Lei  it  VIII.  King 
of  France,   1283. 

CHARLES  II. 

1309. 
I 


I 
Walter  de  Brienne=Albiria 


Charles.  King  of 
Hungary. 

Charles. 


Lewis, 
I 


I 

ROBERT, 

"JtJ. 

Charles. 

r__ 

Andrew=JOAN 
I3+S-    j    '382. 

Charibert. 


Philip 
of  Taranto. 


John 
of  Achaia. 


,  / — '    1        1       i 

=Lewts.       MarytrCharles     Lewis. 
■J««.  I     114S. 

Margaret=CHARLES  III. 
I  1386. 


LADISLAUS,  JOAN  II 


Lewis  II. 
I 


lewis  III. 


I 
Volande. 

1 

Rene. 
Duke  of  Lorraine. 


John. 


Charles  VIII.  King  of  France 
H98. 

Lewis   XII.  King  of  France, 
'S'S- 


ROBERT 
Guifcard,   108 


ROGER. 

1 11 1. 
I 


I 

ROGER 

BolTus   1 101. 


JCugt  ,f  Ibt  T-w,  S,cilit. 


ROGER, 


I  [he  Bad,   1166. 
I  I 

TANCRF.D,  WILLIAM  II. 
1193.  1189. 


WILLIAM  CONST ANTIA  =  Henry  of  Swabia, 

1198.  I  Em 


Emperor. 


FREDERICK, 
Emperor,   i;;o. 


Roger. 


WILLIAM  III. 


Hen,,. 


I 

CONRAD. 

1254. 

I 

Conradine, 
1269. 


»{  1 

Henry.  MANFRE 

,.  11M. 

A'",?'  «f  S>nh.    I 

Conltaocc=PETER.  Kit 

[ Aragon 

I  I 

JAMES.         FREDERICI 
■337 


I 
LEWIS. 


PETER  n 
I 


Lesvii    of    Anjou. 

fon  of  John,  King 

of  France. 


Charles 


Charles, 
Earl  of  Maine. 


John,  KingnEleanor,  Siller  to 
of  Catlile.    I        Martin  ad. 

Ferdinand. 
Pit  '/  Bnk  Si,ili„.  I  Ki,p  rf  Sicily. 

I 
JOHN  of  Nat., rre, 


FREDERICS 

I 

I 

»].iRY  =  mab: 


MARTIN  n. 

Father  to 

Martin   ill.      1410, 


ALPHONSUS. 
1458. 

Kits'  tf\  ffap/n 

FERDINAND, 
1494. 


iTiKf  If  I  Bel/,  Siti/ia. 
FERDINAND 
|hc  Catholic,    1516. 


ALPHONSUS  II.  FREDERICK,       JOAN=Philip  of  Aoltril 

FERDINAND  II.  | .  . 

'*96-  CHARLES,                           Ferdinand     1 
'  ","•".   IJ58.                     Emperor,  jjoVT 


PHILIP  II. 


PHIIIP  III. 
1621. 

PHILIP  IV. 
■  669. 


I 

Mj     niihnn    2. 

1576. 

.        I 


Charles. 


Rodolpb  2. 

1612. 


CHARLES  II.  Mary  Thcrera=2Lew;>  XIV.  King 

'_">■  I         of  France. 

PHILIP  V. 


Matthias.         Ferdinand  ... 
1619.  l6j. 

Ferdinand  j. 
1657. 

LeopTld, 
1 70c. 


I 


CHARLES. 


J»6P".  CHARLES, 

'7"-  Emperor,   1740. 

F.antjs  efarMaria'Tcefis. 
'■""""■  I 


FERDINAND  IV.=CaroI 


[    xvii    ] 


TABLES    OF     COINS, 


GOLD    COINS. 

i.  Piece  of  fix  ducats. 

2.  Piece  of  four  ducats. 

3.  Piece  of  three  ducats,  or,  Oncia, 

a  Sicilian  coin. 

4.  Piece  of  two  ducats. 

BRASS    COINS. 

The  piece  of  1  grano  and  6  calli  *, 
called  the  Publica  f . 

■  1 o 

o 9 

o 6  The 


Tornefe  %. 


O 
o 


4 
3 


SILVER    COINS. 

Piece  of  1 3  carlini  &  2  grana. 
12 o 

1  O  1  1  O  The  ducat,  very  fcarce; 


6 

5 
4 

3 

2 

2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
o 


O  Very  common. 
O  The  patacca,  fiarce. 
O  Common. 
O  Common. 

6 

4 

■  O  The  Neapolitan  tari. 

r> 
O 

•  2 

J  The  carlino  of  Naples, 
'  O  J      and  tari  of  Sicily, 


i  Oncia 

1  Ducat 

I  Carlino 

I  Grano 


contains 


3  ducats.^  Accounts  are   kept  at  Naples   in    ducats, 

1  IO  carlini.  1 1  ,      carlini,    and   grana;    but   regular   mer- 

IO  grana.  f  .      chants  keep  theirs  in  two  columns  only, 

12  calli.  !  I      v'z'  d"ucats  an^  grana. 

The  Neapolitan  ducat,  upon  the  fuppofed  par  with  England,  is  worth 
forty-five  pence,  or  3*.  gd.  fterling,  and  the  carlino  4'-</.  but  this  is 
no  fixed  rule,  as  exchange  is  continually  varying,  and  occafionally 
makes  a  difference  of  ten  or  fifteen  per  cent,  higher  or  lower,  and 
fometimes  even  more. 


*  Calli  ought  to  be  written  Cavalli,  from  the  horles  (lamped  on  the  coin  of  Ferdinand  the  Firft, 
>who,  by  a  wretched  quibble,  put  on  it  the  legend,  ^quitas  regni. 
f  Publica  is  fo  named  from  its  motto,  Publica  conmoditas. 
X  A  word  taken  from  the  French  Tovrmis. 

b  WEIGHTS 


[     xviii 


WEIGHTS    and    MEASURES. 


2  CantaroT 

I  Rotolo    >  contains 

i  Pound    3 


c  ioc 

^  334 

£l2 


oo  rotoli 
J.  ounces 


>< 


N.  B.  The  Neapolitan  cantaro  is  equal  to 
1 96  Englifli  ft  of  Averdupois  weight;  and 
the  rotolo  to  2  Englifli  ft.     The  pound 


lilt*      imviv     fcv      *.      JJi'C"iii      1U  •  *J  j^i_»«»»« 

ounces.         j      is  a  trifling  fraction  above  noz.  Englifli. 


LONG-MEASURE. 

1  Cana  contains  8  palmi. It  is  computed   that  24  yards  Englifh 

make  a  Neapolitan   canna,    and  that  a  palmo  is   equal  to  io~  inches 
Englilh. 


LAND-MEASURE. 

Land  is  meafured  by  the  moggla, 
a  fuperficial  quantity  containing 
goo  paffi,  each  paffo  containing  74 
palmi. 


LAND-MEASURE    in    Puglia. 


1  Caro      "1 

I    Vcrfura  I 

I   Catena  ( 
I  Paflb     J 


contains 


!20  v 
6  ca 
10  r 


verfure 
catene 
■  iO  paffi 
I  7  palmi. 


DRY-MEASURE. 

Wheat  is  meafured  by  the  tomolo,  of  which  54  are  equal  to  an 
Engliih  quarter. 

WINE-MEASURE. 

Wine  is  meafured  by  the  barrel,  containing  66  caraffi,  equal  to  9^ 
Englifh  gallons. — — In  the  city  of  Naples,  the  barrel  contains  only  60 
caraffi. 


OIL-MEASURE. 


1  Salma'  "7 
1  Star       >con 
1  Rotolo  j 


C161 

ins<  10.'- 

LS3y 


ftars 
X  rotoli 
ounces,  equal  to  2  lb  Englifh. 


A  falma  contains  about  40  Englifli  gallons. 


ROADS 


[     xix     ] 
ROADS  of  the    Kingdom    of  NAPLES. 


Poft-Road  from   Rome  to  Naples. 

From  Rome  to  Tcrracina 

Fondi  i '- 

Itri  i 

Mola  t 

Garigliano  i 

S.  Agata  i 

Francolifi  i 

Capua  i 

Averfa  I 
Naples.     Port  royal. 

Poft-Road  from  Naples  to  Caferta. 

From  Naples  to  Caivano,  poft  royal. 
Caferta  i 

From  Caferta  to  S.  Lucl  .1 


From  Caferta  to  the  Aqueduct      i 


From  Caferta  to  Capua 


Oil 


From  Naples  toPuzzuoli,  poll  royal. 

Poft-Road   from   Naples   to  Man- 
fredonia. 

From  Naples  toMarigliano,  p.r.  &| 
Cardinale 
Avellino 
Dentecane 
Grottaminarda 
Ariano 
Savignano 
PontediBovino 
Lucera  2 

Foggia  2 

Manfredonia         q 


Poft-Road  from  Naples,  to  Lccce. 


10'- 


From  Naples  to  Ponte  Bovino 
Ordona 
Cerignuola 
S.  CafTano 
Barletta 
Bifceglia 
Giovenazzo 
Bari 
Mola 
Monopoli 
Fafano 
Oftuni 
S.  Vito 
Mefagna 
Cellino 
Lecce 


Poft-Road  from  Naples  to  Perfano. 

From  Naples  to  La  Nunziata,  p.r.  ■£ 
Nocera  i 

Salerno  1 

Vicenza  1 

Evoli  1 

Perfano  1 


From  Naples  to  Pefto. 

To  Evoli  5  i. 

Pefto  1 « 


Price.  1 1  Carlini  each  pair  of 
horfes,  and  5'-  more  at  the  poft 
royal.  3  Carlini  are  the  due  of 
the  poftillioa  for  each  pair  of 
horfes. 

b   2  Poft- 


sac 


To  EvoH 

La  DucheiTa. 

Auletta 

Sala 

Cafalnuovo 

Lagonegro 

Lauria 

Caftclluccio 

La  Rotonda 

Caftrovillari. 

Efero 

Celfo 


POST 

-ROADS. 

to  Reggio. 

To  Pantoni 

I 

Cofenza 

I 

5i 

Rogliano 

I 

Seigliano 

I 

S.  Biafe 

I 

Fondaco  del  Fico 

i 

Monteleone              ^     i 

S.  Petro  de  Melito 

i 

Drofi 

I 

Seminare 

I 

Paflb  di  Solatvi 

I 

Fiumara  di  Muro 

I 

Catona 

I 

Reggio 

I 

t 


ROUTES    of    CALES 

From  Naples  to  Reggio,  by  Puglia. 

i.  Day,  dinner  at  Cardinale,  fup- 
at  Avellino. 

2.  Mirabella Ariano. 

3.  Ponte  di  Bovino Ordona. 

Canofa San  Cofimo. 

Fontana  d'Ogna Gravina. 


4 
5 

6, 

7 
8, 


Matera, 
Vallecupa' 
Policoro — 


-Torredi  Mare. 


-Rocca  Imperiale. 

9.  Cartel  Rofeto Trebifaccia. 

10.  Madonna  dell' Arma Bufa- 


lara  di  Cailano. 
1 1.  Torre  de  Paolini— 
32.  Cariati Capo  d'Alice. 


Mini. 


S  I,     Muleteers   and    Vetturini. 

17.  Monteleone Seminara. 

18.  Scilla. 

19.  Reggio. 

FronvNaples  to  Reggio,  by  Salerno* 

1.  Noeera—— Salerno. 

2.  Vicenza Evoli. 

3.  La  DucheiTa Polla. 

4.  Sala S.  Lorenzo. 

5.  Cafalnuovo Lagonero. 

6.  Lauria Caftelluccio. 

7.  La. Rotonda Murano. 

8.  Oria Corigliano. 

9.  Roffano Mirti. 


13 
15 


i5. 


Fa  fan  o- 
Cutri — 


^otrone. 


Taverna 
Catanzaro 


Megliacane. 
Nova Cafine 


di 


Carriages  can  go 
no  farther  ;  and  Litters  are  ufed 
from  hence. 
Borgia- — —Fondaco  del  Fico. 


10. 
1.1. 
12. 

13- 
14. 

15- 


Cariati Capo  d'Alice. 

Foflaro Cotrone. 

Cutri Megliacane. 


Catanzaro. 

Borgia Aqua  che  Favella. 

Pizzo Monteleone. 


16.  Seminara.. 

17.  Reggio. 


From  Naples  to  Aquila  in  Abruzzo. 
To  Clavi         23  miles         Cartel  del  Sangro    21 
Triverno  23  Sulmona  20 


Novelli 
Aquila 


•   Here  is  a  road  of  communication  to  Catanzaro.— Two  polls, 
t  He;e  one  embarks  for  Medina. 


GEOGRAPHICAL       VIEW 


OF    THE 


KINGDOM     of     NAPLES. 


HIS  Kingdom  occupies  the  moil  fouthern  extremity  of  Italy,  situation 
and  extends  from  latitude ■  420  ^o'  to  latitude  37*' 50';  and  andExtent>l 
from  longitude  140  to  longitude  190  Eaft  from  London.  Its  greateft 
length  450  Italian  miles;  breadth  140;  circumference  1,468.  Its 
furface  contains  3,500  fcjuare  leagues  -,  or,  as  fome  geographers  com- 
pute, 14,508,973  Moggie,  each  of  which  is  a  fquare  of  30  paces  on 
each  fide ;  every  pace  of  feven  palms  and  one- fifth  : — but  thefe  are 
rough  calculations. . 

The  Apennine  runs  through  it  from  North  to  South  ;  a  branch  of  Mountains. 
the   Apennine    runs    Weft,    to   form    the    promontory   of  Sorrento. 
Monte  Gargano  is  a  promontory  on  the  Adriatic  Sea ;  Monte  Bar- 
baro,  Mifeno,  and  Vefuvius,  are  infulated  mountains. 

Garigliano   and   Voltornoi    navigable ;     Tronto,    Aterno,    Sangro,  R,ver3, 
Fortore,    Ofanto,    Bafiento,    Agri,    Crari,    Metramo,    Amato,    Silari, 
and  Sarao. 

Celano- 


xxn 


GEOGRAPHICAL    VIEW 


tNumber  of 
Inhabitants. 


Provinces. 


Tribunals. 


Lakes.  Celano,  Agnano,  Averno,  Licola,  Fufaro,  Patria,  Lefina,  Fondi. 

Wands.  ln  the'  Mediterranean,  Ponza,  Ventotiene,  Ifehia,  Procida,  Nifida, 

Capri,  Galli,  Licofa,  Dino. 

In -the  Ionian,  the  illand  of  Calypfo,  Monte  Sardo,  S.  Andrea,  and 
S.  Pelagia. 

In  the  Adriatic,  Tremiti  and  Pelagofa. 

In  1669,  it  amounted  to  2,500,000;  in  1765,  to  3,953,098  ;  in 
1773,  to  4,249,430;  and  in  1779,  to  4,641, 363,  exclufive  of  the 
army  and  naval  eftablifhment. 

Twelve ;  viz.  Terra  di  Lavoro,  Principato  citra,  Principato  ultra, 
Bafilicata,  Capitanata,  County  of  Molife,  Terra  di  Bari,  Terra  di 
Otranto,  Calabria  citra,  Calabria  ultra,  Abruzzo  citra,  and  Abruzzo 
ultra.  Thefe  contain  2,067  univerfita,  under  the  denomination  of 
cities,  towns,  and  villages. 

At  Naples, — Camera  di  Santa  Chiara,  S.  R.  C.  di  Santa  Chiara, 
Sommaria,  Vicaria,  Del  Almirante,  Confolato,  Delia  Lana,  Delia 
Seta,  Giunta  de'  Poveri,  Degli  Allodiali,  Del  Lotto,  Di  Sicilia,  Di 
Stato,  Del  Montiero,  Proto  Medicato,  Azienda,  De  Prefidij,  Udienca 
dell  Efercito,  De  Caftelli,  Di  Marina,  Zecca  de'  Pefi,  &c. 

Terra  di  Lavoro  is  governed  by  Sopra  Intendenti,  royal  governors 
of  towns,  and  judges. 

The  other   provinces  have  prefidents,  viz.  Principato  citra,  Princi- 
pato ultra,    Bafilicata,    Bari,   Otranto,   Abruzzo  citra,  Calabria  citra, 
and   Calabria  ultra,  have  .one  each;    Abruzzo  ultra  has   two;    and 
Capitanata  and  Molife  one  between  them. 
At  Foggia  is  the  tribunal  Delia  Dogana. 
•Ecclefuftical         Twenty-one  archbiihoprics,  and  one  hundred  and  ten  bifhoprics  : 
government.     ^  ^^j,,    ejg|u  archbifhoprics,  and   twenty   bifhoprics,    are   in   the 
King's  gift  ;   the  reft  in  the  Pope's. 

Azure,  feme'e  of  fleur  de  luces,  or ;  with  a  label  of  five  points, 
gules. 

Order  of  St.  Januarius,  bilhop  and  martyr, — inftituted  by  Charles, 
now  King  of  Spain,  in  1738.     The  number  of  Knights  not  pofitively 

2  fixed. 


Arms. 


Orders  of 
Jvi.i^hthood 


OF     NAPLES. 


xxm 


fixed.  They  wear  a  red  ribbon,  and  a  ftar  on  the  left  breaft,  with  the 
image  of  the  Saint  in  the  centre ;  and  the  motto,  In  Sanguine  Fccdus. 
The  King  confers  the  Crofs  of  the  Conftantinian  Order,  as  Duke  of 
Parma. 

Ferdinand  the  Fourth,  by  the  Grace  of  God,  King  of  Both  Sicilies,  Titles  of 
Jerufalem,  and  Infant  of  Spain  ;  Duke  of  Parma,  Placentia,  Caftro,   tie 
&c. ;  and  hereditary  Great  Prince  of  Tufcany,  &c,  &c. 


i.    TERRA    DI    LAVORO; 

anciently,  Campania  Felix. 

Derived  from  its  fertility,  or  from  the  ancient  Camp  Leborint. 

Azure,  over  2  cornucopias ;  a  crown,  or;, 

i>53°>964  Moggie. 

In  1779,   1,210,989. 

Garigliano,  Voltorno,  Saone,  Clani,  Sebeto. 

Agnano,  Averno,  Fufaro,  Licola,  Patria,  Fondi. 

Ifchia,  Procida,  Ponza,  Ventotiene,  S.  Maria,  Botte,  Nifida. 

Naples,  Baia,  Gaeta. 

Vefuvius,  Epomeo,  Camaldoli,  Barbara,  Nuovo,  Tifata,  Mattefe, 
3t.  Leo,  St.  Salvatore,  Cecubo,  Auroneo,  Ofellio,  Maffico,  Caflino, 
Attico,  Nivofo,  Cairo,  Cefino,  Seli,  Ortafio,  and  Azo. 

1.  Naples  capital,  archbilhopric. 

2.  Capua  fortrefs,  archbilhopric. 

3.  BifhopricSi  Sora ;  Aquino,  reduced  to  a  hamlet,  the  bifhop 
refides  at  the  united  fee  of  Pontecorvo  ;  Fondi ;  Alife,  the  bifhop 
lives  at  Piedimonte ;  Venafro ;  Sena ;  Calvi ;  Telefe,  the  bifhop 
refides  at  Cerreto  ;  Teano ;  Caiazzo ;  Gaeta,  a  fortrefs  ;  Caferta,  the 
bifhop  lives  at  Caferta  Nova,  where  the  King  has  a  palace  -,  Averfa;, 
Acerra;  Nola;  Pozzuoli  j  Ifchia ;  Carinola. 


Name. 

Arms. 

Extent. 

Inhabitant? 

Rivers. 

Lakes. 

Iflands. 

Seaports. 

Mountains, 


Principal 
Places.  • 


4,  Monte- 


XXIV 


GEOGRAPHICAL    VIEW 


4.  Monte  Cafino,  the  head  convent  of  the  Order  of  St.  Benedict. 

5.  Portici,  St.  Leuci,  Cacciabella ;  royal  refidences. 

6.  Pompeii,    Herculaneum,    Cuma,   Baiac,   Capua,   Formise,  Min- 
turnae,  SinuefTa  ;  ruined  cities. 

7.  Vefuvius,  Solfatara;  mountains  emitting  fmoke  or  flame. 


2.     PRINCIPATO    CITRA;     or, 

Principality  of  Sakmo,  anciently  inhabited  by  the  Picentini  and 

Lucani. 


Name. 


Arms. 

Extent. 

Inhabitants. 

Rivers. 

Iflands. 
Seaports. 
Mountains. 


Principal 
.Places. 


In  the  year  851,  the  pofleflions  of  the  Lombards  were  divided  into 
two  parts ;  one  of  which  obeyed  the  Prince  of  Salerno  j  the  other  was 
fubject  to  that  of  Benevento. 

Party  per  fefs,  argent  and  fable  j  a  failor'6  compafs  with  8  wings, 
argent ;  in  chief,  a  mullet,  or. 

i.i75»994  Moggie. 

447,465. 

Sarno,  Sele,  Battipaglia,  Alento,  Bufento,  Calore,  Bianeo,  Negro, 
St.  Gregorio. 

Capri,  li  Galli,  Piana  di  Lacofa. 

Caftelamare,  Salerno. 

Toro,  Canutario,  Majano,  Collo,  Aquarro,  Lattario,  Sarno,  St. 
Donato,  Calpazzo,  Lucano,  Nero,  Alburno,  Civita,  Calimarco, 
Cantena,  Stella,  Novi,  Cavallara,  Antillia,  Bulgaria,  Maddalena, 
Balzater,  St.  Onofrio,  Aquila,  Motulo,  Cervati,  Navarra,  Petraro, 
Centaurino,  LagoroflTo. 

1.  Salerno  prefidency,  archbilhopric. 

2.  Amalfi,  archbilhopric. 

3.  Sorrento,  archbilhopric. 


4.  Bifliop- 


.S  r 


OF     NAPLES.  xxv 

4.  Bifhoprics  t — Nocera,  Sarno,  Vico,  Mafia,  Capri,  Cava,  Let- 
tere,  Caftelamare,  Acerno,  Campagna  cum  Satriano,  Capaccio,  Poli- 
caftro,  Scala  cum  Ravello,  Minori,  Marfico  Novo. 

5.  Paeftum,  Stabia,  Velia ;  ruined  cities. 

6.  Perfano,  Caftelamare  ;  royal  feats. 


3.     PRINCIPATO    ULTRA;     or, 

Principality  of  Benevento. — Samnites,  HirpinL 


Party  per  fefs,  gules  and  argent ;  on  the  ]ft,  a  crown.  Arms, 

664,280  Moggie.  Extent. 

250,136.  Inhabitants, 

Calore,  Sabato,  Tamoro.  Rivers. 

Virgine,  Taburno,  Sabletta,  Agnone,  Termolo,  Guleto,  Paflagone,   Mountains, 
Irpino,  Rumulo,  Jarminio,  Divoto,  Voltore. 

Anfanto.  Lake. 

1.  Benevento,  archbifhopric ;  belongs  to  the  Pope.  Principal 

2.  Conza,  archbifhopric. 

3.  Bishopries: — St.  Agata  de'  Goti;  St.  Angelo  de'  Lombardi,  cum 
Bifaccia;  Ariano ;  Trevico,  cum  Vico  della  Baronia  ;  Avellino,  cum 
Frigento  j  Nufeo ;  Montemarano  j  Lacedogna  ;  Monteverde,  united 
to  Canne  and  Nazareth. 

4.  Montevergine,  chief  convent  of  the  Verginian  order. 

5.  Montefufcolo,  prefidency. 

6.  liculanum,  a  ruined  city. 


BASILICATA. 
Lttcania. 


From  the  Greek  Emperor  Bafil  II.  Nimt 

Barry  wavy,  of  fix,  argent  and  azure ;  in  chief,   an   eagle's  head    . 

crowned,  gules, 

c  j,Coj,o47 


JSKV1 


GEOGRAPHICAL    VIEW 


Extent. 
Inhabitants, 

Rivers. 

Lakes. 

.Mountains. 


Principal 

Places. 


i,Goj,047  Moggie. 
.  3-5.682. 

Bradano,  Bafiento,  Salandrella,  Acri,  Sinno. 

I  ngonegro,  Olmo. 

Cafale,  Croce,  Funicchio,  Pomazzo,  Muro,  Acuto,  Rivezzone, 
Fondone,  Maruggio,  St.  Martino,  Carrafo,  Vefpe,  Alpi,  Raparo, 
Melaggioto,  Sirino,  St.  Brancato,  Noce  Trecchina. 

1.  Acerenza,  archbifhopric,  united  to  Matera,  where  the  prefidency 
is  held. 

q.  Bifhoprics  : — Melfi  cum  Rapolla,  Montepelofo,  Tricarico,  Po- 
tenza,  Anglona  cum  Turfi,  Venofa,  Muro. 

3.  Metapontum,  Heraclea  ;  ruined  cities. 


Name. 

Arms. 
Extent. 
Inhabitants. 
Rivers. 
La' 

Iflands. 
Seaports. 

Mountains. 


Principal 
Places. 


5.     C  A  PIT  AN  AT  A. 
Apulia,  Daunia,  FrentanL 

A  corruption  of  Catapanata  (the  diftricl  under  the  Catapan,  or 
Greek  viceroy). 

Azure,  on  a  mount,  St.  Michael,  or. 

1,14.1,622  Moggie. 

401,255. 

Biferno,  Fortore,  Candelaro,  CarapeTle,  Ofanto,  Cervaro. 

Lefina,  Varano,  Bataglia,  St.  Giovanni,  Salpi. 

St.  Domino,  St.  Nicola,  Caprara,  Cretaccio,  Mergoli. 

Manfredonia,  Viefli. 

Granato,  Secco,  Corvino,  Pagano,  Auro,  Chilone,  Bucculo,  Li- 
hurno,  Origine,  Calvo,  Sagro,  Saracino,  Barone,  Condizzo. 

1.  Manfredonia,  archbifhopric. 

2.  Bishopries: — Lucera,  prefidency;    '  San  Severo,    Larino, 

Troja,  Termoli,  Bovino,  Volturara  ci        vlonte  Corvino,  Afcoli. 

tribunal  t  r  duties  on  cattle. 

4.  Bofco 


OF     NAPLES. 

4.  Bofco  di  Bovino,  royal  feat. 

5.  Monte  St.  Angelo  di  Gargano,  a  pilgrimage. 

6.  Sipontum,  Arpi,  Salapia,  Herdonia  ;  ruined  cities. 


XXVH 


6.    COUNTY    OF    MOLISE. 

Sii7itnium  and  Pentri. 


From  a  caftle.  Name, 

Gules  within  a  garland  of  ears   of  corn,   or;    a  bearded  comet,  Arms. 
argent. 

484,898  Mogg'lC.  Extent. 

Included  in  the  enumeration  of  Capitanata..  Inhabitants. 

Biferno,   Fortore,  Trigno.  Rivers. 

Sangra,     Janipro,    Vallone,     Rotaro,     Biferno,    Caprara,    Bifano,  Mountains^ 
Albano. 

1.  Bifhoprics: — Bojano,  the  prelate  refides  at  CampobafTo ;  Guar-  Principal 
dia,  Alfiera,  Ifernia,  Trivento.  Places- 

2.  Campobaflb,  chief  place  of  the  county;  Molife,  a  burgh,  from 
whence  the  county  takes  its  name. 


iamc. 


7.     TERRA    DI    BARL 
Apulia  t  Peiicetia,  and  Picdiculi. 

From  the  principal  city.  Na 

Party  per  fahire,  azure  and  argent ;  overall,  a  crozier,  or.  Arms. 

869,097  Moggie.  .  Extent. 

2.81,048.  Inhabitants, 

(J  fan  to,  Cane.  $.lvt 

c  2  Barletta, 


vets. 


XXV  111 


GEOGRAPHICAL    VIEW 


Seaports. 

Mountains. 

Principal 
1'laces. 


Barletta,  Trani,  Bari,  Molfetta. 

Sanazzo,  Femina  Morta,  Lupulo,  Franco,  St.  Agoftino. 

1.  Bari,  archbifhopric. 

2.  Trani,  archbifhopric  and  prefidency. 

3.  Barletta,  refidence  of  the  archbilhop  of  Nazareth. 

4.  Biihoprics: — Andria,  Bifceglia,  Ruvo,  Bitonto,  Monopoii,  Gra- 
vina,  Giovenazzo  cum  Terlizzi,  Bitetto,  Converfano,  Molfetta,  Polig- 
nano  (the  bifhop's  refidence  is  at  Mola),  Minervino. 

5.  Egnatia  and  Canne,  ruined  cities. 


Arms. 

Extent. 

Inhabitants. 

Rivets. 

Lake. 

Seaports. 

Mountains. 
Hands. 

Principal 
Places. 


8.     TERRA    DI    OTRANTO. 

Mcjfapia  or  Japigia>  Calabria,  Sakntini. 

Paly  of  8,  gules  and  or  ;  over  all  a  dolphin,  with  a  crefcent  in  his 
mouth,  proper. 

1,377,102  Moggie. 

290,915. 

Bradano,  Patimifco,  Lieto,  Chiatano,  Tara,  Galefo,  Hidro. 

Limina. 

Brindifi,  Otranto,  Taranto. 

Hidro,  Scotano. 

St.  Andrea,  St.  Pelagia,  Ifola  de  Brindifi. 

1.  Taranto,  archbifhopric. 

2.  Brindifi,  archbifhopric. 

3.  Otranto,  archbifhopric. 

4.  Biihoprics  : — Lecce,    prefidency ;    Caftellaneta,    Gallipoli,    Mo- 
tula,  Ugento,  Caftro,  Nardo,  Oria,  Oftuni,  AlefTano. 

5.  Man'durisB,  Dupix,  Rudii,  Salentum  ;  ruined  cities. 


C  A  L  A- 


OF     NAPLES.  xx;x 

o.     CALABRIA    CITRA, 

Lucania  and  Brutium. 

Given  by  the  Greek   Emperors,    to  perpetuate   the   memory  of  Name, 
ancient  Calabria,  which  they  had  loft. 

Argent,  a  crofs  potent,  fable.  Arms. 

1,605,463  Moggie.  Extent. 

o1S'33°'  Inhabitants.' 

Calandro,    Cerfhiara,   Raccanello,   Cofcile,   Crati,  Efaro,  Moccono,  Rivers. 
Lucino,  Celano,    Celenito,  Trionto,  Fimarello,  Aquanile,   Fiomenica, 
Lipuda,  Nieto,  Savuto,  Cleta,  Solio,  Bato,  Lao. 

Mauro,    Provizia,    Pollino,   Cilifterno,    Malafpina,    Saflb,    Caritore,   Mountains. 
Muta,   Ifauro,   Coruzzo,   Calaferna,   Gigante,  Macalla,  Bovi,  Scaccia 
Diavolo,  Fumiero,  Negro,  del  Calabrefe,  Patiati,  Caperofa,  Januario, 
Goliero,  Porcina,  Ilia. 

1.  Cofenza,  archbifhopric  and  prefidency.  Principal 

2.  Roflano,  archbifliopric. 

3.  Bifhoprics  : Cariati   cum    Gerenza,    Martorano,    St.    Marco, 

Bifignano,   Umbriatico,  Strongoli,  Caflano. 

4.  Sibaris,  Pandofia,  Petilia  ;  ruined  cities. 


10.     CALABRIA    ULTRA. 

Brutium. 


Gironnee  of  4 ;  1  and  4  Aragon  ;  2  and  3  argent ;  a  crofs  potent,   Arms, 
fable. 

1,901,878  Moggie.  Extent, 

460,302.  Inhabitants. 

Nieto,   Efaro,  Pilaca,  Dragone,  Tacina,  Nafcaro,  Acone,  Litrello,  Rivers, 
Alii,    Corace,    Allefi,    Beltrana,    Ancinale,    Alaca,    Calipari,    Bruda, 

Pacanito, 


XXX 


GEOGRAPHICAL    VIEW 


Seaports. 
Mountains. 


Principal 
Places. 


Pacanito,  Affa,  Stilaro,  Alaro,  Calamizzi,  Locano,  Novito,  Merico, 
Ciamuti,  Bova,  Alice,  Gallico,  Allecio,  Sfalaffa,  Metauro,  Metramo, 
Mefima,  Angitola,  Amato. 

Cotrone,  Reggio. 

Afpro,  Zefirio,  Pittaro,  Sagittario,  Sacro,  Efope,  Caulone,  Sagra, 
Jeio,  Clibano,  la  Sibilla,  Corvaro,  Nerbo,  Ordica,  Pettinella. 

1.  Reggio,  archbifhopric. 

2.  Santa  Severina,  arcbbifhopric. 

3.  Bishopries  : — Catanzara  cum  Taverna,  prefidency  ;  Belcaftro, 
Ifola,  Bova,  Oppido,  Nicctera,  Tropea,  Gerace,  Squillacce  cum 
Stilo,  Mileto,  Cotrone,  Nicaftro.' 

4.  Locri,  Plippona,  Terina,  Caulon,  Croton ;  ruined  cities. 


Name. 

Arms. 
Extent. 
Inhabitants. 
Seaport. 
Rivers. 

Mountains. 


Principal 
Places. 


11.     ABRUZZO    CITRA. 
Samnium,  Peligni,  Mdrrucini,  Frentanl,  Caraceni. 

From  the  city  of  Aprutium,  the  PrcnXutii,  or  the  afperity  of  the 
country. 

Or,  a  boar's  head  with  a  yoke,  gules. 

917,052  Moggie. 

232,256. 

Ortona. 

Pefcara,  Lenta,  Foro,  Moro,  Feltrino,  Sangro,  Sente,  Afinella* 
Trigno,  Merola. 

St.  Nicola,  Majella,  Cavallo,  Errnihio,  Prata,  Morone,  Argatone, 
Longo,  Schienaforte,  Marfo,  Caraccio,  Capraro,  Sorbo,  Scoflcib, 
Pallana,  Policorno. 

1.  Chieti,  arcbbifhopric  and  prefidency. 

2.  Lanciano,  arcbbifhopric. 

3.  Bifhoprics  : — Sulmona  cum  Valve,  Ortona  cum  Campli. 

4.  Corfmium,  ruined  city. 


12.     ABRUZ- 


OF     NAPLES.  xxxi 

12.     ABRUZZO    ULTRA. 
Matfi,  Vejliniy  PrceUitii. 

Azure,  an  eagle  difplayed,  or,  on  3  hills,  vert.  Arms- 

1,311,476  Moggie.  Extent. 

345,825.  Inhabitants. 

Tronto,   Librata,    Salinello,   Trontino,  Vomana,    Piomba,    Salino,  Rivers. 
Pefcara,  Salto,  Velino. 

Celano.  Lakes. 

Velino,  Elvino,  Fiore,  Corno,  Pietra  Fiorita,  Pietra  Solida,   Can-  Mountains, 
dido,    Nitella,    Pietra  Gentile,    Calvo,     Carofa,    Pefchiolo,    SafTuolo, 
Gurguri,  Rofetta,  Mofcie,  Seno,  Luco,  Corbaro,  Duchefla,  Accerella, 
Carbonara,  Grottolo,  Turchio,  Lampallo. 

1.  Bifhoprics  : — Aquila,    prefidency ;    Teramo,    prefidency;    Pef-  Principal 

i luces* 

cina,  refidence  of  the  bifhop  of  the  Marfi ;  Civita  Ducale  ;  Atri  cum 
Penne. 

2.  Amiterno,  Aveia  j  ruined  cities. 


SHORT         SKETCH 


OF       THE 


HISTORY 


OF       THE 


KINGDOM     of     NAPLES, 


i. 

TH  I S  Country  has  been  celebrated  from  the  earlieft 
dawn  of  Grecian  literature,  and  illuftrated  by  many 
achievements  of  gods  and  heroes ;  fome  authors  even  lay 
the  fcene  of  the  Giants'  War  in  Campania,  and  prove  their 
affertion  by  the  fable  of  the  Titans,  who  were  buried  under 
the  neighbouring  inlands.  As  it  is  not  likely  that  thefe 
ftories  mould  have  originated  entirely  in  the  imagination  of 
the  poets,  we  may  reafonably  fuppofe  fome  hiftorical  event 
afforded  a  canvas  for  them  to  work  upon  j  and  the  moft 
natural  conjecture  is,  that  the  fir  ft  adventurers,  on   their 

B  landing 


HISTORY     OF    NAPLES. 

landing  in  Italy,  met  with  a  vigorous  oppofition  from  men 
of  an  extraordinary  ftature.  From  their  taking  refuge  in 
fulphureous  vallies  and  gloomy  caverns,  among  burning 
mountains,  the  difcoverers  called  them  fons  of  the  earth, 
and  their  abodes  the  mouths  of  hell. 

All  accounts  of  thefe  primordial  inhabitants  are  extremely 
imperfect ;   moft  probably  the  invaders  drove  them  into  the 
inland  mountainous  regions,  where  they  became  the  parents 
of  the  Lucanians  and  other  warlike  nations. 
Greeks.  Divers  tribes  of  Greeks  planted  colonies  along  the  mores 

of  the  Adriatic  and  Mediterranean  feas.  Diomed  is  faid  to 
have  founded  Arpi,  and  Idomeneus  Salentum,  immediately 
after  the  Trojan  war ;  and  fo  many  Greek  fettlements  were 
made  in  the  fouthern  part  of  Italy,  that  it  acquired  the 
name  of  Magna  Grarcia. 

Thefe  commonwealths  experienced  a  variety  of  fortunes; 
fometimes  they  gave  law  to  the  people  of  the  midland 
countries,  at  others  were  obliged  to  receive  it  from  them. 
Alexander,  king  of  the  MoloiTians,  paffed  over  into  Italy 
to  fupport  the  caufe  of  his  countrymen  ;  but,  after  a  k\v 
brilliant  campaigns,  loft  his  life  in  a  battle  againft  the  Lu- 
canians. Not  long  after,  the  Bruttians,  a  people  fprung 
from  a  fet  of  outlaws,  carried  all  before  them,  and  gave 
their  name  to  the  province  which  is  now  called  Farther 
Calabria,  At  length  Rome  turned  her  ambitious  eye  to- 
wards this  extremity  of  the  peninfula  ;  in  vain  did  the 
Bruttians  refift  her  arms  with  obftinate  valour ;  in  vain  did 

Pyrrhus 


HISTORY    OF    NAPLES.  3 

Pyrrhus  from  Epirus,  and  Hannibal  from  Carthage^  check 
her  progrefs  at  different  periods ;  in  the  courfe  of  a  few 
years,   the  fortunes  of  Rome  prevailed  over  all  oppofition,   Romans, 
and  thefe  countries  fubmitted  to  the  yoke  of  bondage  with 
the  reft  of  Italy, 

u. 

As  the  Romans  divided  this  diftricl:  according  to  the 
various  nations  that  compofed  it_,  the  forms  of  government 
were  as  different  as  its  inhabitants ;  fome  cities  were  made 
colonies,  others  ruled  by  magiftrates  fent  from  Rome,  and 
a  few  indulged  with  their  old  republican  conflitution,  fub- 
ject  to  a  tributary  acknowledgment ;  but,  fooner  or  later, 
the  mode  of  deputing  governors  from  the  Capital  was  uni- 
verfally  adopted. 

Hadrian  made  a  great  change  in  the  distribution  ;  and, 
having  divided  Italy  into  provinces,  formed  four  of  them 
out  of  the  prefent  kingdom  of  Naples. 

Some  alterations  took  place  under  Conftantine,  but  none 
very  material. 

After  enjoying  longer  and  greater  tranquillity  than  any  After  Chrif 
other  department  of  the  Roman  empire,  this  country  was 
over-run  by  the  Vifigoths,  in  the  reign  of  Honorius.  Upon 
the  retreat  of  the  invaders,  who  made  no  fettlement  here, 
thefe  provinces  were  found  to  have  fuffered  fo  exceffively 
from  the  devaluation,  that  it  became  neceffary  to  remit  their 
ufual  tribute.     They  had  fcarce  recovered  their  loffes,  when 

B   2  Genferic 


400. 


* 


HISTORY    OF    NAPLES. 

Genferic  the  Vandal  laid  them  wafte,  and  deftroyed  many 
of  their  mod  flourifhing  cities. 


III. 

The  final  diffolution  of  the  Roman  empire  now  drew 
near,  and  the  convulfions  that  fhook  it,  in  the  lad  moments 
of  its  existence  in  the  Weft,  were  too  violent  not  to  be 
feverely  felt  in  parts  fo  near  the  centre.  They  accordingly 
fhared  largely  in  the  common  calamity. 

Coths.  The  long  profperous  reign  of  Theodoric,  the  Oftrogoth, 

allowed  fome  refpite  to  their  mifery,  and  was  a  period  of' 
happinefs  in  the  annals  of  Italy.  After  many  viciffitudes 
of  fortune,  the  Gothic  fceptre  was  broken  at  the  battle 
553.  of  Nocera  ;  and  Naples,  with  the  adjacent  provinces,, 
returned  to  the  obedience  of  the  emperors  of  Conftan- 
tinople. 


Lower 
Gveek  Era- 
pile, 


IV. 

In  the  courfe  of  the  century  that  followed  the  deftru6Hon 
of  the  Goths,  a  very  material  change  took  place  in  political 
nomenclature,  the  fource  of  many  modern  names  and  fub- 
divifions  of  countries.  In  fome  degree,  the  foundation  of 
the  feudal  fyftem  was  laid  by  Longinus  the  Exarc^i,  who, 
after  abolishing  the  dignity  of  Confulars  and  Presidents, 
appointed  in  each  city  a  Duke,  and  in  every  caftle  a 
Warden. 


V.  In 


HISTORY    OF    NAPLES.  < 

V. 

In  5  58,  the  eunuch  Narfes,  a  difco*ntented  general  of  the  Lombard*/ 
Emperor  Juftin,  invited  the  Lombards  into  Italy,  where  they 
made  thcmfelvcs  mafters  of  thofe  rich  plains,  to  which  they 
gave  their  own  name  They  did  not  penetrate  into  the 
Neapolitan  ftate  till  the  year  589,  when  their  king  Autharis 
marched  down  the  heart  of  the  country,  as  far  as  Rhegium, 
and  founded  the  duchy  of  Beneventum.  The  reafon  of  his 
making  his  invafion  along  the  range  of  mountains  that 
divides  Italy  into  two  parts,  was,  the  invincible  averfion  his 
nation  at  all  times  betrayed  for  maritime  enterprizei1. 

The  Dukes  of  Beneventum  became  formidable  potentate?, 
and  extended  their  dominion  over  all  the  fouthern  provinces, 
except  a  few  fea-ports,  that  remained  faithful  to  the  Greek 
Emperor,  and  governed  themfelves  like  commonwealths, 
under  his  protection.  Beneventum  furvived  the  downfal  of 
the  Lombards  in  774,  when  their  monarchy  was  annihi- 
lated by  Charlemagne  ;  and  two  hundred  and  twenty-eight 
years  after  that  event,  princes  of  Lombard  blood  were  ftill. 
feated  on  the  thrones  of  Capua,  Salerno,  and  Benevento ; 
But  Puglia  and  Calabria' obeyed  the  mandates  of  the  Empe- 
ror of  Greece. 

VI. 

About    the    beginning   of   the   eleventh    century,    forty       I002. 
Norman   gentlemen,    returning   from   the    Holy  Land,   a 

pilgrimage 


HISTORY     OF    NAPLES. 

pilgrimage  then  coming  into  fafhion,  flopped  at  Salerno, 
where  they  were  received  with  great  hofpitality  by  Guaimar, 
a  prince  of  the  Lombard  line.  During  their  flay  at  his 
court,  a  fleet  of  Saracens  appeared  off  the  harbour,  and  fent 
in  a  threatening  melTage,  to  intimate  that,  unlefs  they  were 
immediately  fupplied  with  a  large  fum  of  money,  they 
would  land,  fack  the  city,  and  lay  the  territory  wafte,  as 
they  had  often  done  before.  Thefe  Mahometan  rovers  were 
at  that  time  the  fcourge  of  Italy  :  from  ft rong  fettlements, 
formed  by  them  on  the  river  Garigliano,  and  in  Sicily,  they 
were  wont  to  iflue  forth,  in  powerful  fleets,  to  pillage  and 
lay  under  contribution  all  the  maritime  places  of  a  country 
too  little  united,  and  confequently  too  weak,  to  make  a 
proper  refiftance.  Guaimar,  confcious  of  his  inability 
to  repel  them,  fet  about  collecting  the  ranfom  ;  and 
the  pirates  landed  on  the  beach,  where  they  abandoned 
themfelves  to  every  fpecies  of  riotous  intemperance.  The 
Normans,  unaccuftomed  to  behold  fuch  infults  tamely  fub- 
mitted  to,  and  efteeming  it  an  eternal  ftain  upon  their 
honour,  daftardly  to  ftand  by,  and  fee  their  benefactors 
plundered  by  a  fet  of  ruffians,  fnatched  up  their  arms, 
rufhed  out  of  the  gates,  and  fell  upon  the  Infidels  with 
fuch  impetuoilty,  that  they  put  the  greateft  part  of  them  to 
the  fword  ;  the  remainder  fled  to  their  /hips,  cut  their 
cables,  and  immediately  ran  out  to  fea. 

The  grateful  Salernitans  would  gladly  have  detained  their 
gallant  deliverers  in  Italy,  but  perceiving  them  bent  upon 

returning 


HISTORY    OF    NAPLES. 

returning  to    their   native  country,    difmifTed   them  loaded 
with  valuable  prefents. 

The  fight  of  thefe  treafures,  and  the  rapturous  descrip- 
tion given  by  the  travellers  of  the  Italian  climate,  excited 
the  cupidity  of  other  Normans,  and  templed  many  to  fixer 
their  courfe  that  way,  in  fearch  of  fortune.  Ranulph 
headed  the  hrft  emigration  ;  and,  having  rendered  many 
fignal  fervices  to  the  Greek  and  Lombard  princes,  was 
allowed,  for  his  recompence,  to  build  and  fortify  Averfa, 
a  fmall  town  in  Campagna.  This  was  the  flriT:  fettlement 
his  nation  made  in  thefe  provinces,  and  ferved  for  many 
years  as  a  rendezvous  and  refuge  for  the  Normans  on  every 
emergency. 

After  him  came  the  fons  of  Tancred  of  Hauteville,  who 
in  military  renown  left  all  their  countrymen  far  behind 
them.  Invincible  wherever  they  lent  their  aid,  and  terrible 
to  the  effeminate  Greeks  and  Italians,  they  were  carefled 
and  fought  after  by  the  petty  fovereigns,  whofe  diffentions 
then  diffracted  this  country.  Maniaces,  generalifTimo  of 
the  Grecian  forces^  courted  their  friendship,  and  engaged 
them  to  affift  him  in  the  invafion  of  Sicily,  at  that  time  m 
the  hands  of  the  Saracens.  With  their  help  he  obtained  a 
complete  vi&ory  over  the  MufTulmen,  and  might  have 
atchieved  the  conqueft  of  the  iiland,  had  he  checked  his 
national  avarice  and  perfidy ;  but,  while  the  Normans  were 
intent  upon  the  purfuit  of  the  routed  enemy,  the  Greek 
fuzed  on  all  the  fpoil,  and  divided  it  among  his  own  idle 
5  foldiers. 


8  HISTORY    OF    NAPLES. 

foldiers,  without  referving  any  fhare  for  thofe  who  "had 
earned  it  at  the  hazard  of  their  lives.  The  Normans  fent 
Ardvvin  to  expoftulate  with  him  on  the  injuftice  of  his 
mode  of  proceeding ;  but  the  meflenger  met  with  moft 
ignominious  treatment  from  him,  was  whipped  round  the 
camp,  and  fent  back  bleeding  to  his  friends.  At  the  fight 
of  his  wounds,  the  adventurers  were  worked  up  to  a  pitch 
of  madnefs,  and  with  loud  cries  were  about  to  rum  upon 
the  Greeks,  when  Ardwin,  whofe  deep-rooted  refentment 
difdained  a  tranfient  revenge,  curbed  this  violence,  and 
having  explained  his  projects  to  their  chiefs,  perfuaded  them 
to  withdraw  fecretly  acrofs  the  Faro  of  Medina.  They 
were  no  fooner  landed  in  Calabria,  than  they  attacked  the 
principal  cities  and  catties  of  the  Imperial  province.  In 
order  to  purfue  their  plan  with  regularity,  they  elected  a 
chief,  and  united  into  one  compact  confederation.  Their 
firft  leaders  were  of  Lombard  extraction,  but  they  after- 
wards placed  themfelves  under  the  direction  of  William 
Fierabras,  the  eldeft  of  Tancred's  fons. 

After  his  death,  they  were  governed  fucceflively  by  his 
brothers  Dreux  and  Humphrey,  who  extended  the  Norman 
dominions  very  confiderably  ;  but  the  great  founder  of  this 
dy natty  was  Robert,  the  fourth  brother,  furnamed  Guifcard, 
or  Wifcarcl,  from  his  great  fkill  and  cunning.  His  con- 
quefts  were  rapid,  and  conducted  with  judgment ;  nor  was 
his  policy  in  the  cabinet  inferior  to  his  valour  in  the  field. 

7  VII.   To 


HISTORY    OF     NAPLES.  9 

VII. 

To  Robert,   Pope  Nicholas  II.  granted  what  it  is  hard  to   Robert,  firft 

Duke 

prove  he  had  any  right  to  difpofe  of,  viz.  the  title  of  Duke  1059. 
of  Puglia,  with  the  perpetual  fovereignty  of  that  country  ; 
and  alfo  of  Sicily,  if  he  could  conquer  it.  The  truth  is, 
thefe  piinces  flood  fo  much  in  need  of  each  other's  ailift- 
ance,  to  enable  them  to  refift  the  power  of  the  Emperors, 
that  it  is  no  wonder  they  endeavoured  to  fecure  their  mutual 
attachment  by  fo  many  reciprocal  conceflions.  Robert, 
who  could  not  divine  the  fatal  confequences  his  treaty  was 
to  have  in  future  times,  promifed  to  the  See  of  Rome  an 
obedience  and  homage,  which  he  had  no  intention  of  pay- 
ing any  longer  than  it  might  fuit  the  fituation  of  his  affairs : 
and  Nicholas  found  no  difficulty  in  granting  inveftitures  of 
countries  he  had  never  been  in  pofTeilion  of,  and  which  he 
knew  mud:  fall  into  the  hands  of  the  Normans,  whether  he 
oppofed  or  authorifed  their  ufurpation.  Emboldened  by 
the  papal  fanction,  Robert  and  his  younger  brother  Roger 
invaded  Sicily,  expelled  the  Saracens,  and  foon  after  com- 
pleted the  conqueft  of  what  is  now  called  the  kingdom  of 
Naples.  A  family  quarrel*  with  the  Emperor  of  Conftan- 
tinople  opened  a  new  fcene  of  action  for  Guifcard's  reftlefs 
fpirit.     After  repeated  victories,   he  penetrated  into  the  very 

*  His  daughter  Helen,  married  to  Conftantine,  fon  of  the  emperor 
Michael  Ducas  VII.,  had  been  fent  back,  and  her  hufband  lhut  up  in  a 
convent,  by  Nicephorus  III. 

C  heart 


io  HISTORY    OF  'NAPLES. 

heart  of  Greece,  and  threatened  the  throne  of  the  eaflern 
Caefars  with  immediate  deflruction,  when  he  was  fuddenly 
recalled  to  Italy  by  the  danger  of  his  friend  the  Pope. 
Robert  flew  to  Rome,  defeated  and  drove  away  the  Em- 
peror Henry  IV.,  by  whom  the  Pontiff  had  been  reduced 
to  the  utmoft  diftrefs,  and  having  fecured  his  ally  from 
future  infults,  refumed  his  favourite  fcheme  of  fubduing 
Greece ;   but  there,  in  the  height   of  his  moft   promising 

I0g5.        fuccefs,  his  glorious  career  was   cut  fhort  by  a  malignant 
fever. 

Roger.  Roger,  his  fon  by  a  fecond  wife,  fucceeded  to  his  domi- 

nions, notwithstanding  the  claims  of  Bohemund,  the  off- 
fpring  of  a  former  marriage,  who,  finding  himfelf  unequal 
to  a  conteft  with  his  brother,  fupported  by  his  uncle 
Roger  earl  of  Sicily,  accepted  of  the  terms  they  offered. 
It  was  not  long  before  an  accident  furnifhed  him  with  an 
opportunity  of  being  revenged  of  them  both. 

The  city  of  Amalfi  having  taken  advantage  of  the 
diflentions  among  the  Normans,  and  attempted  to  recover 
its  ancient  independence,  was  inverted  by  the  joint  forces  of 
the  three  princes.  To  this  fiege  came  Peter  the  Hermit, 
to  preach  the  firft  crufado,  armed  with  papal  benedictions, 
fired  with  zeal,  and  endowed  with  that  ecckfuftical 
unction,  and  all-perfuafive  eloquence,  which  men,  even  in 
the  moft  enlightened  ages,  are  feldom  able  to  withftand. 
At  that  barbarous  sera,  fuch  a  preacher  was  irrefifdbie  ;  his 
call   was  liftened   to,    his   predictions   believed,    his  crofies 

4  feized 


HISTORY    OF    NAPLES.  u 

feized  with  eagernefs.  Bohemund,  whether  hurried  away 
by  the  phrenzy  of  devotion  and  enterprize,  or  feduced  by 
the  defire  of  revenge,  feconded  the  endeavours  of  the  en- 
thufiaft,  and,  at  the  head  of  the  flower  of  the  army, 
marched  off  for  Paleftine,  leaving  his  two  relations  before 
the  walls,  with  fcarce  a  fufficient  force  to  fecure  their 
retreat. 

Roger  was    fucceeded   by   his   fon  William,    on   whofe    William, 
demife  without  iffue,  all  the  Norman  poffeflions  in  the  two 
Sicilies  devolved  upon  his  coufin  Roger,  fon  of  the  firfl  earl      il2j. 
of  Sicily  aforementioned. 

VIII. 

This  prince,  difdaining  the  ftyle  of  Duke,  which  he  Roger,  firft 
thought  inadequate  to  the  prefent  fortunes  of  his  houfe,  "§' 
aiTumed  the  title  of  King.  The  Pope,  ahrmed  at  the 
rapid  progrefs  of  the  Normans,  and  apprehtnfive  of  their 
proving  an  obftacle  to  his  own  private  views  of  aggrandife- 
ment,  called  in  the  affiftance  of  the  emperor  Lotharius,  in 
order  to  check  a  power,  which,  if  timely  opposition  were 
not  made,  might  endanger  the  liberties  of  Italy.  Lotharius 
marched  a  formidable  army  into  the  new-erected  kingdom, 
and  carried  all  before  him ;  while  Roger  wifely  retired  from 
the  ftorm,  to  collect  his  ftrength.  The  fury  of  the  invaders 
was  foon  fpent,  and  they  wafted  away  with  inaction  and 
malady.  The  King  harafTed  them  in  their  retreat,  reco- 
vered every  pofr,  drove  the  Germans  out  of  the  kingdom, 

C   2  and 


12  HISTORY    OF    NAPLES. 

and  having  taken  Pope  Innocent  II.  prifoner,  forced  him  to 
recognize  his  title,  and  grant  him  inveftiture. 

Roger  then  deftroyed  the  fhadow  of  independence  which 
ft  ill  exifted  in  fome  maritime  cities,  invaded   Africa,  con- 
quered  Tunis,    and  afterwards   made   a   fuccefsful  invafion 
into  Greece.      He  did  not,  however,  confine  his  ambition 
to  military  renown,  but  was  alfo  attentive  to  the  internal 
ii54.        adminiftration  of  affairs;  and  at  his  death  left  every  depart- 
ment of  government  in  fo  flourifhing  a  ftate,  that,  as  far  as 
the  feeble  wifdom  of  man  could  forefee,  he  had  jure  caufe 
to  hope  that  his  throne  was  fixed  upon  a  moft  immoveable 
balls.    The  confequence  of  fupine  negligence  in  his  fucceflbr 
fhewed  how  fallacious  are   all  human   projects,   and   how 
eafy  it  is  for  mifmanagement  to  overfet  the  beft  concerted 
plans. 
William  I       '  ^he  fecond  King  was  Roger's  fon  William,  an  unhappy 
prince,  though  little  molefted  by  foreign  enemies.     Indo- 
lence gave  him  up  a  willing  prey  to  wicked  minifters ;    but 
whenever  he  was  roufed  to  action  by  attacks  from  abroad, 
the  fpirit  of  his  anceftors  rofe  "within  him,  and  he  repelled 
every  hoftile  affault  with  the  courage  of  a  Guifcard.      The 
Pope  and  the  Emperor  prefled  at  one  time  very  hard  upon 
him,  but  he  baffled  all  their  attempts ;   had  he  been  as  fuc- 
cefsful  at  home,   his   reign   would   make   a   very  different 
figure   in  the  Sicilian   chronicles  from  what  it  now  does. 
Majone,   his   favourite,   governed  the  nation  in  fo  oppreilive 
a  manner,  that  he  provoked  the  barons  to  confpire  againff 

him. 


HISTORY    OF    NAPLES.  13. 

him.  They  murdered  the  minifter,  imprifoned  the  mo- 
narch, and  placed  the  crown  on  the  head  of  his  infant  fen. 
This  unfortunate  child  being  killed  by  a  random  arrow, 
the  courage  of  the  rebels  funk,  William  regained  the  fceptre, 
glutted  his  revenge  with  the  blood  of  the  confpirators,  and 
pafTed  the  remainder  of  his  days  in  melancholy  peace. 
Depreft  with  misfortunes,  fick  of  ambition,  deftitute  of 
friends,  and  incapable  of  any  laudable  occupation,  he  arrived 
at  length  at  fuch  a  pitch  of  apathy,  as  to  forbid  his  attend- 
ants to  inform  him  of  any  circumftance  that  might  difturb 
his  quiet.  The  confequences  were,  that,  under  the  fan&ion 
of  his  authority,  his  officers  exercifed  the  moft  brutal 
tyranny  with  impunity  ;  and  William  defcended  to  the  j,67, 
grave,  detefted  by  all  good  men,  and  branded  for  ever  with 
the  odious  appellation  of  the  Bad. 

The  factions  among  the  great  vafTals  difturbed  the  firft  William  IE 
years  of  his  fon  William's  reign  ;  but  when  he  grew  up  to 
manhood,  all  thefe  turbulencies  fubfided.  A  mild,  prudent, 
and  equitable  administration,  added  to  the  merit  of  bound- 
lefs  munificence  to  the  church,  and  unfhaken  attachment 
to  the  See  of  Rome,  procured  for  him  the  ineftimable  fur- 
name  of  the  Good.  The  greateft  proof  that  can  be  given 
how  well  he  deferved  this  honourable  epithet,  is  the  defire 
which  the  Sicilians  expreffed,  in  all  fubfequent  quarrels  with 
their  fovereigns,  of  having  things  put  upon  the  fame  foot- 
ing, and  the  laws  exercifed  with  the  fame  impartiality,  as 
they  were  in  the  days  of  Good  King  William.     Not  having 

any 


i4  HISTORY    OF    NAPLES. 

any  heirs  of  his  body,  and  being  defirous  of  preventing  a 
civil  war,  he  gave  his  aunt  Conftance,  a  poflhumous  i  hi!d 
of  King  Roger,  in  marriage  to  Henry  of  Swabia,  king  of 
the  Romans ;  and  loon  after  died,  having  reigned  twenty- 
three  years  in  fuch  profound  peace  and  tranquillity,  that 
hiftorians,  who  delight  more  in  tumultuous  and  bloody 
fcenes,  have  neglecled  to  tranfmit  to  us  any  particulars  of 
1189.        the  laft  ten  years  of  his  reign*. 

Tanaed.  When  this  good  king  died,  his  appointed  fuccefibrs  were 

abfent,  and  the  Sicilians,  in  defiance  of  the  allegiance  they 
had  fworn  to  them,  called  to  the  throne  Tancred  earl  of 
Lecce,  natural  fon  of  Roger,  elder  brother  of  William  I. 
This  reign  was  fhort  and  turbulent :  but  the  Germans 
would  in  all  probability  have  been  completely  excluded,  had 
Tancred,  who  was  an  excellent  and  valiant  prince,  lived 
long  enough  to  fettle  himlelf  on  the  flippery  feat  Exceflive 
grief  for  the  lofs  of  an  accomplimtd  and  favourite  fon,  on 
whom  he  had  refted  every  fond  hope  of  future  joy  and 
1192.  greatnefs,  brought  this  affectionate  parent  to  an  un- 
timely grave,  and  blafted  at  once  all  the  budding  fortunes 
of  his  family. 

William  ill.  William,  his  furviving  fon,  was  too  young  and  weak 
to  refift.  the  power  of  Henry,  now  become  emperor,  and 
afiifted   by   the   fickle  barons.     The   unhappy   youth    was 

*  Montagne  fays,  c  Les  bons  hiftoriens  fuyent  comme  une  eau  dormap.ve 
c  et  mer  morte  des  narrations  calmes  pour  regaigner  les  (editions,  les 
e  guerres,  ou  ils  fcavent  que  nous  les  appellons.' 

obliged 


HISTORY    OF    NAPLES.  i5 

obliged  to  furrender  himfelf  to  his  rival,  who,   contrary  to 

his    plighted   faith,    deprived,  him   of  liberty,    fight,    and       "94* 

manhood. 

IX. 

Henry,  who  was  a  monfter  of  cruelty,  put  to  death  every   Swabians. 
adherent  of  Tancred's,  not  even  fparing  the  traitors,  who   Henry  and 
had  deferted  William  to  join  the  Imperial  ftandard.     His 
mean  brutality  led  him  to  dig  up  the  body  of  Tancred,  and 
expofe  it  to  the  birds  of  prey.     Sicily  was  laid  wafte,   her 
churches   plundered,    her   wealth   tranfported   into    foreign 
countries,  and  her  ftreets  flamed  with  the  blood  of  her  moffc 
diftinguifhed  citizens.    But  now  the  Sicilians  perceiving  that 
the  Emperor  was  bent  upon  exterminating  the  whole  Nor- 
man race,  rumed  to  arms.      An  univerfal  rebellion  broke 
out,    at    the   head   of   which   appeared  Conftantia  herfelf, 
unable  any   longer    to   bear  with    the  inhumanity   of  her 
hufband.      Henry  was  driven  out  of  the  ifland,  and  forced 
to  fubfcribe  to  the  moffc  humiliating  terms  of  pacification. 
He  did  not  long  furvive  his  difgrace  ;  and  the  Emprefs  died       ,,9g. 
foon  after,  leaving  the  crown  to  Frederick,    their  only  fon, 
an  infant. 

A  moft   diforderly  minority  enfued ;    but   by   the  good    Frederick 
management  of  Pope  Innocent  III.,   who  ruled  as  regent   peror. 
and  guardian  to  the  young  king,   his  dominions  were  pre- 
ferved  entire  :  and,   as  foon  as  he  came  of  age,   Frederick 
obtained  the  Imperial  diadem  by  the  influence  of  his  kind 

tutor. 


rS  HISTORY    OF    NAPLES. 

tutor.  This  cordiality  between  the  two  powers  was  but  of 
fhort  duration  ;  and  their  fubfequent  animofity  was  violent 
in  proportion  to  the  warmth  of  their  former  attachment. 
During  a  long  courfe  of  years,  they  perfecuted  each  other 
with  unremitting  malevolence  ;  thefe  difTentions  embittered 
the  beft  part  of  the  Emperor's  life,  and  laid  a  foundation  for 
troubles  and  inteftine  commotions,  which  at  length  brought 
the  houfe  of  Swabia  to  utter  destruction.  In  hopes  of  paci- 
fying the  pontiff,  Frederick  embarked  for  the  Holy  Wars ; 
but  fcarce  had  he  fet  foot  in  Paleftine,  when  news  was 
brought  him  that  Gregory  IX.  had  debauched  many,  of  the 
barons  from  their  allegiance,  and  invaded  the  kingdom  of 
Naples.  The  Emperor  immediately  patched  up  a  peace 
with  the  Infidels,  and  returned  to  Italy.  Surrounded  by 
domeftic  enemies,  peftered  with  papal  anathemas,  and  v/orn 

s250#  out  in  counteracting  their  machinations,  Frederick  expired, 
not  without  fome  fufpicion  of  poifon,  faid  to  have  been 
administered  by  his  natural  fon  Manfred ;  but  no  fatisfac- 
tory  reafons  have  been  given  for  fufpecting  him  of  this 
parricide. 
Comad.  As  foon  as  the  Emperor's  death  was  known,  the  Pope 

renewed  his  attack,  expecting  to  find  the  kingdom  a  de- 
fencelefs  prey  ;  but  the  fudden  appearance  of  Conrad,  fon 
and  heir  of  Frederick,  overturned  his  projects.  This 
young  Emperor  crufhed  the  infurgents,  ftormed  Naples, 
and    exerciled    great    cruelty    upon    his    opponents.       He 

1154.       reigned  only  four   years ;    and  his   death    is   alfo   afcribed, 

by 


HISTORY    OF    NAPLES.  17 

by  the   ecclefiaftical  writers,   to  their  capital  enemy  Man- 
fred. 

Conradine,  the  only  Ton  of  Conrad,  being  abfent  in  Ger- 
many  at  the    time  of   his  father's   death,   the  pope  feized 
upon  the  kingdom ;    but  Manfred,   as   regent,  difpoffeffed   Manfred. 
him,   and,  a  report  being  fpread  of  Conradine's  death,   af- 
fumed  the   reins    of  government  in  his   own  name.      The 
Roman  pontiffs,    finding  themfelves  foiled  in  their  military 
attacks    by   the  fuperiof  fkill  of  their  adverfary,  and   their 
fpiritual  thunderbolts  of  little  avail  againft  an  enemy  that 
fcreened  himfelf  behind  the  fhield  of  incredulity,    took  an* 
other  method,  and  offered  the  crown  of  Sicily  to  any  prince 
that  would  drive  out  the  prefent  excommunicated  pofleflbr. 
The  firft  that  was  found  able  to  put  this  plan  in  execution 
was  Charles  of  Anjou,  brother  to  Lewis  the  Ninth  king  of    * 
France.      He   accepted  the  offer,    whether  folely  urged  by 
his  own  ambition,  or  pufhed  on  by  the  vanity  of  his  wife, 
who  longed  to  be  a  queen  as  well  as  her  lifters  *.     He  pene- 
trated into  the  kingdom,  and  gained  a  decifive  victory,   at 
Benevento,  over  Manfred,   who    fell  in   the   field  of  battle. 
Conftance,  daughter    of   this    unfortunate   prince,  married      1266. 
Peter  king  of  Aragon  f. 

*  The  daughters  of  Raymond,  Earl  of  Provence,  were  Margaret,  married 
to  Lewis  IX'.  King  of  France;  Eleanor,  to  Henry  III.  King  of  England; 
Sancha,  to  Richard  Earl  of  Cornwall,  and  King  of  the  Romans  ;  and  Beatrix, 
to  Charles  Earl  of  Anjou. 

■f  It  is  remarkable,  that  their  prefent  Sicilian  Majefties  are  both  defcended 
by  Conftantia  from  the  heroic  houfe  of  Swabia. 

D  X. 


i8  HISTORY     OF    NAPLES. 

X. 

Angevines.  Charles   no   fooner  thought   himfelf  firmly  feated  on  his 

Firtf.  new  throne,  than  he  gave   a  loofe  to   his   natural  temper, 

and  ruled  his  fubjedts  with  a  rod  of  iron.  This  ufage  pro- 
voked them  to  invite  Conradine  to  the  inheritance  of  his 
ancestors,  but  their  good  intentions  ferved  only  to  complete 
the  ruin  of  the  Swabian  family.  The  unfortunate  youth 
was  defeated,  betrayed,  taken  prifoner,  and  beheaded.  His 
death  did  not,  however,  remain  long  unrevenged  :  Charles 
and  his  Frenchmen  rendered  their  yoke  fo  galling  to  the 
Sicilians,  whofe  honour,  property,  and  lives  were  become 
the  fport  of  the  licentious  conquerors,  that  on  Eafter 
Tuefday,  in  the  year  1282,  the  people  of  Palermo  raifed 
the  ftandard  of  revolt.  The  whole  ifland  followed  the 
example  of  the  capital,  and  a  general  maffacre  enfued,  in 
which  every  Frenchman  but  one  *  was  put  to  the  fword 
without  mercy  ;  an  event  known  in  hi  (lory  by  the  name 
of  the  Sicilian  Vefpers.  The  infurgents  offered  the  crown 
to  Peter  of  Aragon  ;  a  long  war  enfued,  in  the  Courfe  of 
which  Charles  met  with  nothing  but  misfortunes,  and  died 
1185.  of  a  broken  heart. 
Charles  II.  Charles,  his  eldeft   fon,   was   actually   a  prifoner   at  the 

time  of  his  father's  death:  having  recovered  his  liberty, 
and  made  many  ineffectual  attempts  to  drive  the  Aragonefe 
out  of  Sicily,  he  concluded  a  peace  with  them,  and,   being 

*  William   Porcclet,  whole  life  was  fpared  in  confideration  of  his  virtue 
and  juftice. 

a  good 


HISTORY    OF    NAPLES. 

a  good  and  moderate  man,  turned  his  whole  attention  to- 
wards the  welfare  and  improvement  of  his  kingdom  of 
Naples.  I3°9' 

He  was  fucceeded  by  his  fecond  fon  Robert,  though  Robert. 
Charles  Martel,  king  of  Hungary,  who  was  the  eldeft,  and 
died  before  his  father,  had  left  children.  Charibert,  king  of 
Hungary,  put  in  his  claim,  upon  which  it  was  agreed  by 
both  parties,  to  fubmit  to  the  umpirage  of  the  Pope.  The 
papal  decree  confirmed  Robert  in  the  pofTeilion.  Fie  has 
been  accufed  of  having  poifoned  his  brother,  in  order  to 
pave  his  way  to  the  throne. 

Being  little  molcfted  by  external  enemies,  his  long  reign 
was  glorious  and  fortunate,  as  far  as  foreign  affairs  were 
concerned  ;  but,  in  the  circle  of  his  own  family,  he  was 
completely  wretched.  He  had  outlived  his  only  fon,  and, 
with  a  view  of  preventing  difputes  about  the  fucceflion,  had 
given  his  grand -daughter  and  heirefs  Joan  in  marriage  to 
Andrew  of  Hungary,  a  worthlefs  prince,  with  whom  fhe 
was  likely  to  be  very  miferable.  Theforeiight  of  approach- 
ing difallers  oppreiTed  his  aged  fpirit,  and  haflened  his  dif- 
folution.  i343, 

Andrew  foon    became  fo   hateful  to  his  queen  and  her   joan  the 
fubjects,  that   a   confpiracy   was  formed   to  take  away  his     :f  ' 
life  :   the  murder  was  committed  at  Averfa.      Modern  au- 
thors pretend,  that  his  wife  was   not  privy  to  it;   but  1  do 
not  think  their  proofs  furhcient  to  refute  the  aiguments  of 
thofe  cotemporaries  that  lay  it  to  her  charge.     Her  widow- 

D  2  hood 


l9 


20  HISTORY    OF    NAPLES. 

hood  was  fhort :  Lewis  of  Taranto,  of  the  blood  royal,  a 
prince  endowed  with  many  good  qualities,  was  her  fecond 
hufband.  He  and  Joan  were  obliged  foon  after  to  fly 
before  the  king  of  Hungary,  who  invaded  Naples,  to  re- 
venge his  brother's  murder,  and  put  feveral  nobles  to  death 
on  that  account.  The  Hungarian  being  recalled  by  do- 
mestic tumults  to  his  own  dominions,  Joan  returned  to 
Italy.  Her  third  hufband  was  James  of  Aragon  ;  and  her 
fourth,  Otho  of  Brunfwick.  Being  now  far  advanced  in 
years,  and  pan1  all  hopes  of  having  children,  fhe  inftituted 
her  relation,  Charles  of  Durazzo,  her  heir.  This  prince, 
jealous  of  the  defigns  of  Otho,  doubtful  of  the  queen's 
fteadinefs,  and  impatient  to  be  in  pofleflion  of  the  crown, 
aflembled  an  army,  attacked  Naples,  took  the  queen  pri- 
foner,  and  is  fuppofed  to  have  put  an  end  to  her  ex- 
1382.     iflence. 

XL, 
Durazzians.  When  Charles  invaded  her  dominions,  Joan  had  no 
commander  of  eminence  to  oppofe  to  him  :  me  therefore 
called  to  her  aid,  and  adopted,  Lewis  of  Anjou,  fon  to  John, 
king  of  France ;  but  he  came  too  late  to  prove  of  any 
fervice  to  his  ill-fated  benefaclrefs.  However,  he  fecured 
to  himfelf  the  quiet  pofleflion  of  her  French  territories,  and 
was  in  a  fair  way  of  conquering  the  Neapolitan  ones,  when 
he  fell  rick  and  died. 

Charles,  though   peaceable   pofleflbr   of  Naples,    could 
not  reft  fatisfied  with  his  good  fortune,  but  liftened  to  the 

4  invitation 


HISTORYOFNAPLES.  zt 

invitation  of  the  Hungarian  malcontents,  who  wifhed  to 
depofe  Mary,  the  only  child  of  his  old  friend  and  protector, 
King  Lewis.  He  agreed  to  their  propofals,  went  to  Hun- 
gary, and  was  proclaimed  king;  but,  not  long  after,  the 
young  queen's  party  recovered  from  their  confternation,  and 
afTailinated  him  in  the  palace.  i386. 

The  kingdom  of  Naples  alone  defcended  to  his  infant  Ladiflaus. 
fon  Ladiflaus,  during  whofe  non-age  every  thing  was  in 
perpetual  ferment.  On  coming  of  age,  he  found  the  An- 
gevines  matters  or  three- fourths  of  the  realm  ;  and  to  re- 
cover them  out  of  their  hands,  required  all  his  courage  and 
good  fortune*.  He  afterwards  took  a  leading  part  in  the 
troubles  of  Italy,  tyrannized  over  Rome,  dictated  to  moft 
of  the  petty  potentates,  and  attempted  to  conquer  Hun- 
gary. The  pope,  alarmed  at  his  profperity,  called  in 
Lewis  the  Second,  of  Anjou,  who  defeated  the  Durazzians 
at  Ceparano,  and,  had  he  known  how  to  make  ufe  of  his 
victory,  would  have  ruined  their  party  beyond  redemption  ; 
but,  having  loitered  away  his  time,  inftead  of  purfuing 
his  advantage,  he  gave  his  adverfary  an  opportunity  of  col- 
lecting frem  forces,  and  gaining  fuch  a  fuperiority  as  was 
no  longer  to  be  refifted.  Ladiflaus,  delivered  from  ene- 
mies at  home,  and  an  over-match  for  thofe  abroad,  gave 
himfelf  up  to  pleafure,  and  fhortened  his  days  by  excefs  of 
debauchery.  I4*4* 

His  only  filter,    Joan,  fucceeded   him  :    a  woman  more    joan  the- 
noted  for   her  lafcivioufnefs  than   any  princefs  fince  MeiTa- 

lina,. 


az  HISTORY    OF    NAPLES. 

lina,  without  one  virtue  "to  balance  her  vices;  a  flave  to 
luft  and  vile  favourites,  her  life  was  a  continual  round  of 
riot,  diftrefs,  and  civil  turmoils.  At  the  age  of  forty- 
fcven,  and  much  againff,  her  will,  the  clamours  of  the 
people  forced  her  to  contract  a  fecond  marriage,  and  take 
to  her  bed  the  Count  of  La  Marche,  who  aimed  at  abfo- 
lute  dominion,  and  ufed  her  with  great  feverity.  She 
plotted  with  Sforza,  an  adventurer,  recovered  the  reins  of 
government,  and  fent  her  hufband  back  to  France.  Joan 
was  fcarce  rid  of  this  incumbrance,  when  another  oppo- 
nent ftarted  up.  This  was  a  third  Lewis  of  Anjou,  who 
carried  on  his  attack  with  fuch  vigour,  that  the  queen  was 
under  the  neceflity  of  applying  for  fuccour  to  Alphonfus, 
king  of  Aragon  and  Sicily,  whom  fhe  adopted.  No  fooner 
had  the  Spaniard  deprived  the  Angevines  of  the  power  of 
giving  her  uneahnefs,  than  the  fickle  old  woman  grew  tired 
of  her  adopted  ion,  revoked  the  deed  of  gilt,  and  bellowed 
the  reverfion  upon  Lewis,  her  former  antagonist.  Al- 
phonfus was  driven  out  of  the  kingdom,  and  feemed  to 
have  laid  afide  ail  thoughts  of  adding  Naples  to  his  here- 
143;.  ditary  dominions,  when  the  death  of  Joan  and  Lewis  left 
the  kingdom  once  more  open  to  his  attack ;  but  it  was 
not  without  a  long  druggie,  and  much  bloodfhed,  that 
he  achieved  the  conqueft. 

XII. 

Aragontfe.         The  crowns  of  the  two  Sicilies  being  thus  re-united  upon 
one  brow,   thefe   defolated  provinces  were   by   degrees    re- 

flored 


HISTORY     OF     NAPLES.  23 

ftored  to  peace  and  opulence  :  blefTings  to  which  they  had 
been  long  Grangers.  This  great  prince  died  without  legi- 
timate iflue,  having  furvived  Joan  twenty  three  years.  Si- 
cily and  Aragon  devolved  to  his  brother  John,  king  of 
Navarre  ;  and  Naples,  by  virtue  of  a  previous  agreement, 
fell  to  his  natural  fon  Ferdinand.  ,458, 

The  reign  of  Ferdinand  the  Firft  was  long,  but  not  Ferdinand  I. 
happy,  being  difturbed  by  two  dangerous  rebellions,  which 
(hook  his  throne  to  the  centre,  though  he  triumphed  over 
them  both.  By  every  method,  which  victory  and  breach 
of  faith  could  enable  him  to  purfue,  he  exterminated  the 
principal  families  engaged  in  thofe  revolts  ;  but  their  fpirit 
furvived,  prepared,  and  enforced  the  blow  that  fo  fud- 
denly  and  irrefiftibly  overwhelmed  his  fuco  (Tor.  Ferdi- 
nand, however,  died  in  peace,  and  was  fucceeded  by  his  I494, 
fon, 

Alphonfus    the    Second,   a    man    of  great  military  fame,    Aiphonfus 

1  r  r\    r  •  1         •     n  1         ^  tne  Second, 

but  or  a  moft  ianguinary  temper,  the  lnltigator  and  actor 
of  all  the  treacheries  and  cruelties  that  iullied  'his  father's 
annals.  Chaftifement  was  not  tardy  in  overtaking  him  ; 
for  he  had  fcarce  held  the  fceptre  a  lew  months,  before 
Charles  the  Eighth,  king  of  France^  as  heir  to  the  houfe 
of  Anjou,  marched  to  Naples  at  the  head  of  a  formidable 
army.  On  his  approach,  Alphonfus  was  ftruck  with  fuch 
a  panic,  that,  forgetful  of  honour  and  intereft,  he  abdi- 
cated his  crown,  left  his  fon  to  make  the  beft  defence  he 
1  could, 


24 


HISTORY    OF    NAPLES. 


■1495. 


Ferdinand 
the  Second. 


1496. 

Frederick 
the  Second. 


1504. 


could,  and  fled  to  Sicily,  where  he  foon  died   of  fhame 
and  defpair. 

Ferdinand  the  Second  retired  before  the  enemy,  while 
Charles  made  his  triumphal  entry  into  the  capital.  This 
blaze  of  French  glory  was,  like  a  wintry  fun,  glaring  and 
tranfitory.  Charles  returned  to  France,  and  Gonfalvo,  the 
great  Spanim  captain,  reinftated  Ferdinand  in  all  his  pof- 
feflions.  Unfortunately  he  did  not  live  long  enough  to 
reftore  any  degree  of  firmnefs  to  the  tottering  fortunes  of 
his  family. 

Upon  his   deceafe,  his   uncle   Frederick    fiicceeded :     a 

learned  good  prince,  and  worthy  of  a  better  fate.     He  was 

overpowered   by  a   confederacy  entered  into  by  Ferdinand 

the  Catholic,  king  of  Spain,  and  Lewis  the  Twelfth,  king 

of  France,  to  feize  upon  and  divide  the  kingdom  of  Naples 

between    them.      1  he  execution    of   the   project   was  eafy 

for  two  fuch  powerful  monarchs ;   and  Frederick,   bereft   of 

friends   and   hopes,    furrendered    up   his   perfon   to   Lewis, 

expeding  better  treatment  at   his  hands,  than   at  thofe   of 

his  perfidious  coufin   of  Aragon.      But  he  had  little  reafon 

to  rejoice  at  the  truft  he  had  repofed  in  French  generofity  ; 

for   he  was  confined  the  few  remaining  years  of  his  life  at 

Tours,  while  his  wretched  family  was  left  to  wander  about 

the  world  hopelefs  and  unbefriended. 


XIII.  The 


HISTORY    OF    NAPLES.  25 

XIII. 

The  unnatural  com  pad  between   thefe  kings  could  not   Ferdinand 

i  °  the  1  hird. 

long  hold  together,  as  fraud  and  violence  were  its  founda- 
tion. Matters  were  foon  embroiled,  and  war  enfued  ;  the 
French  were  expelled,  and  both  {hares  irrecoverably  fecurcd 
to  Ferdinand.  At  his  death,  Naples,  with  all  his  other 
dominions,  paffed  to  his  grandfon 


1516. 


XIV. 

Charles  of  Auftria,  afterwards  emperor  of  the  Romans,   £"ft'!ans; 

'  t  Charles  the 

the  fifth  of  the  name.  |°?'th< ,, 

ririh  astm- 

During  this,  and  every  fucceeding  reign  of  the  Auftrian    per°r-  6 
family,  thefe   kingdoms  were  governed    by   viceroys,    and   Philip  king 

'  of  Spain  the 

feldom    honoured    with    the   prefence    of  their    fovereign.    Second. 
The  oppreflions  of  the   governors,   the  complaints  of  the  phi!ip  the 
people,  and  outrages  of  the  barons ;   the  depredations  of  the       "(,'2i. 
Turks,  French,    or  banditti,   were   the    only   interruptions   Philip  the 
to    the  public   peace,  till  the  year   1647,  when  a  famous   Fwm\. 
infurrection  broke  out.      Mafaniello,   the  leader   of  the   fe- 
dition,  ftirred  up  the  mob  of  Naples,  on  account  of  fome 
duties  laid  upon  fruit,  drove   the   viceroy  into   the   caftle, 
and,  for  a  few  days,   ftrutted  the  dictator  of  the  Neapolitan 
republic.      On  his  being  murdered,   things   returned  quietly 
to   their  wonted   channel.     About   this  time,   the  duke  of 
Guife  came  to  Naples,  and  endeavoured   to   make    himfelf 

E  king ; 


i6  HISTORY    OF    NAPLES. 

king  ;  but  his  enterprize  failed  for  want  of  fupport  from 
France. 
Charles  the  Thus  fatigued  with  every  difquiet  and  inconvenience 
1700.  incident  to  a  delegated  adminiftration,  Naples  continued  to 
obey  the  Spaniards  with  a  heavy  heart,  until  the  extinction 
of  the  Auftrian  line  in  1700  opened  a  new  field  for  liti- 
gation. 

XV. 

Bourbon.  The  great    conteft    for    the  inheritance  of  Charles   the 

Fifth.  Second  changed  the  whole  political  fyfeem  of  Italy.    Naples, 

at  firft,  was  occupied  by  Philip  of  Bourbon  ;  but,  in  1706, 
was  conquered  by  the  Auftrians,  and  at  the  peace  of 
Utrecht,  in  17 13,  confirmed  to  the  emperor  Charles  the 
Sixth. 


Auftrians. 
les  the 

Sixth. 


XVI. 

Bourbon.  jn  1734,  Elizabeth,   fecond    wife   of   Philip  the  Fifth, 

Charles  the  .  .  .  -       . 

Seventh.  kino-  of  Spain,  being  ambitious  or  procuring  a  lettlement 
for  her  fon  Don  Carlos,  caufed  Spain  to  engage  in  a  war 
with  the  emperor ;  the  event  of  which  was,  that  the  Infant 
conquered  Naples,  and,  by  the  treaty  of  peace,  was  left 
in  full  poiTeflion,  with  the  title  of  King  of  the  Two  Sicilies. 

Ferdinand  In  1759,  on  the  death  of  Ferdinand  the  Sixth  of  Spain, 

Charles  fucceeded  to  the  Spaniih  crown,  and  refigned  his 
Sicilian  dominions  to  his  third  fon,  Ferdinand  the  Fourth, 
now  reigning.     Philip,   the  eldeft,   was   fet  afide  for   idiot- 

ifm ; 


the  Fouith. 


HISTORY    OF    NAPLES.  27 

ifm  ;  and  Charles,  the  fecond,  taken  by  his  father  to 
Madrid  as  prince  of  Afturias,  and  heir  apparent  to  the 
Spanifh  monarchy. 


N.  B.  As  any  difcufGon  of  chronological  doubts  would  have  been  abfurd 
in  an  abridgment  of  hiflory,  I  have  fixed  all  epochas  at  the  molt 
probable  dates. 


E    2 


A 

VOYAGE 


FROM 


MARSEILLES 


T    O 


NAPLES, 

1776. 


SECTION      J. 

H  E  feafon  of  the  year  being  far  advanced,  and  the 
Alps  covered  with  fnow,  I  thought  it  imadvifeable 
with  a  family  to  undertake,  a  journey  into  Italy  by  land  ; 
and  therefore,  in  company  with  S.  T.  G.,  hired  a  French 
polacre  at  Marfeilles,  and  embarked  for  Naples  on  the 
1 7th  of  December   1776. 

The  getting  under  fail  was  tedious,  as  the  currents  ob- 
liged us  to  tow  out  from  buoy  to  buoy  ;  but  when  once 
clear  of  the  land,  we  went  at  a  prodigious  rate,  before  a 

5  brifk 


3o  VOYAGETONAPLES. 

brifk  north-weft  wind,  which   in  the  evening  increafed  to 
a  ftorm. 

All  that  night,  and  the  enfuing  day,  the  gale  continued, 
and  drove  us  on  very  faft.  As  the  Tea  was  rough,  and  the 
waves  fhort,  the  irregular  jerks  and  toffings  of  our  fhip 
kept  us  in  perpetual  alarms;  but  fortunately  it  was  tight 
and  well  built.  The  Alps,  immerfed  in  fnow,  appeared 
on  the  left  hand,  about  four  leagues  off,  riling  out  of  the 
waters  to  a  wonderful  height :  the  fea  ran  fo  high,  that  we 
could  difcern  nothing  near  their  bafe.  About  fun-fet,  we 
got  under  the  fhelter  of  Cape  Corfo,  the  N.  E.  point  of 
Corfica,  and  lay-to  all  night  in  ftill  water.  By  this  delay, 
we  loft  the  opportunity  of  palling  through  the  ftraits  of 
Piombino  ;  for,  before  morning,  the  boifterous  Maestral 
fank  into  a  very  dull  zephyr,  which  faintly  brought  us  to  the 
ifland  of  Elba,  and  there  left  us  in  a  dead  calm.  We  were 
towed  into  the  harbour  of  Porto-Ferraio,  where  Monf.  de 
Lanores,  the  governor,  a  native  of  Lorraine,  received  us 
with  great  politenefs,  and  contributed  every  thing  in  his 
power   to   make  our  involuntary  viiit  to  his   port  lefs  irk- 

fome. 

The  ifland  of  Elba,  known  to  the  Greeks  by  the  name 
of  Aithalia,  and  to  the  Romans  by  that  of  Uva,  has  been 
renowned  for  its  mines  from  a  period  beyond  the  reach  of 
hiftory.  Ariftotle  fpeaks  of  them  as  opened  from  time 
immemorial,  and  Virgil  brings  a  fuccour  to  ./Eneas  of  three 
hundred  men  from 

Uva, 


^ 

^ 

te 
N 
^ 

N 


§ 


VOYAGE     TO     NAPLES.  41 


-II 


va. 


Infula  inexhauftis  chalybum  generofa  metallis*. 

It  lies  about  ten  miles  S.  W.  from  Tufcany,  in  latitude 
42°  50'.  Its  figure  is  that  of  an  equilateral  triangle.  Pliny 
gives  it  a  circuit  of  an  hundred  miles.  Late  geographers 
allow  only  fixty  to  its  circumference  ;  but,  as  no  map  has 
yet  been  made  upon  exact,  obfervations,  and  as  the  circuit 
would  be  much  more  confiderable,  if  every  creek  and  inlet 
were  meafured,  perhaps  the  Roman  menfuration  may  come 
nearer  the  truth  than  the  modern  one.  The  difference 
might  even  be  accounted  for  by  the  encroachments  of  the 
fea,  and  by  the  tumbling  in  of  the  rocks,  which  are,  in 
many  places,  of  a  mouldering  contexture. 

Being  extremely  mountainous,  Elba  affords  but  fcanty 
room  for  cultivation,  and  produces  little  more  than  fix 
months  provifion  of  corn  for  its  feven  thoufand  inhabitants. 
It  is  faid  to  have  been  peopled  from  Volterra,  in  very  an- 
cient  times,   the  capital  of   Tufcany,    and    perhaps  of   all 

Italy. 

The  property  is  at  prefent  divided  between  the  Prince  of 
Piombino,  who  poflefTes  the  largeft  mare ;  the  King  of 
Naples,  to  whom  Porto-Longone  belongs ;  and  the  Great 
Duke  of  Tufcany,  who  is  matter  of  Porto-Ferraio. 

The  climate  is  much  milder  than  that  of  the  adjacent 
continent;  for  Elba  produces  many  plants  and  fruits  that 
cannot  ftand  the  Tufcan  winters. 

*  "  Elba,  an  ifland  rich  in  inexhauftible  mines  of  fteel." 

6  The 


VOYAGE     TO    NAPLES. 

The  fouth-weff.  part  of  the  ifland  is  the  moft  elevated, 
and  confifls  of  lofty  unfruitful  mountains,  compofed  of 
black  and  white  granite  fufceptible  of  a  fine  polifh.  In  an 
old  quarry,  on  the  fouth  fhore,  may  be  fcen  feveral  pillars 
and  bafons  roughly  hewn,  and  left  unfinifhed.  The  co- 
lumns of  the  cathedral  of  Pifa  are  faid  to  have  been  cut  out 
of  thefe  rocks.     Under  this  granite  is  a  ftratum  of  flate. 

The  N.  E.  and  S.  E.  parts  are  chiefly  argillaceous  flate 
and  iron-Hone,  with  a  quarry  of  grey  marble,  and  fome 
veins  of  ferpentine.  Amianthus  is  frequent  among  the 
fhivery  rocks.  Near  the  N.  E.  point  is  the  hill,  or  mine 
of  iron  ore,  belonging  to  Rio,  which  fupplies  mofr.  of  the 
forges  of  Italy.  At  the  S.  E.  cape  is  the  Monte  della  Ca- 
lamita,  fo  called  from  the  loadftone  with  which  it  abounds. 
This  is  the  magnss  colore  fufco  rubente  of  the  mineralo- 
gifts,  and  appears  to  be  a  ferruginous  fubfbnce  that  has 
paffed  through  a  very  violent  fire  without  vitrification.  The 
efficient  of  magnetifm  ftill  remains  in  the  unfathomed 
depths  of  nature's  firfl:  caufes.  Monf.  de  Buffon  defines  it, 
a  conftant  effecT:  of  electricity  produced  by  the  interior  heat, 
and  the  rotation  of  the  globe  ;  but  if  it  depended  on  no 
other  caufe,  we  fliould  not  experience  fuch  variation  in 
the  compafs.  The  beft  magnets  in  Elba  are  found  near 
the  fea  ;  but  to  come  at  ftrong  ones,  the  ground  muft  be 
dug  into:  becaufe  the  air,  or  the  rays  of  the  fun,  eat  out? 
the  force  of  thofe  that  lie  long  expofed  to  them  on  the 
furface.     The  earth,  mixed    with   thefe   (tones,  is   full  of 

martial 


VOYAGE     TO    NAPLES.  33 

martial  particles,  which  ftick  to  the  pick-axe  in  the  fhapc 
of  little  tufts  of  briftles.  The  layer  that  fupports  the 
magnetic  heaps  is  a  blue  whetftone  Hate,  with  a  fmall 
mixture  of  calcareous  (tones.  At  the  bottom  of  the 
mountain  is  found  a  bole,  vulgarly  named  white  loadftone> 
not  from  any  real  attractive  virtue,  but  from  a  roughnefs 
that  caufes  the  tongue  to  adhere  to  it.  It  was  formerly 
much  worn  as  a  charm  by  lovers,  and  fuppofed  to  draw, 
with  great  force,  the  affections  of  the  beloved  object:  to- 
wards  the   wearer. 

The  foil  of  Elba  is  very  mallow,  with  few  places  level 
enough  for  corn.  The  wine  is  good,  if  made  with  care, 
and  properly  kept ;  the  fruit  of  its  ftandard  trees  is  faid 
to  be  exquifite  ;  orange  and  lemon  trees  feem  to  thrive 
very  well  in  the  (heltered  vallies  and  narrow  plains  near 
the  fea. 

About  four  thoufand  tons  of  fait  are  made  near  Porto- 
Ferraio,  which  has  likewife  a  tunny  fimery,  worth  annu- 
ally to  the  Grand  Duke  one  thoufand  three  hundred  pounds 
Sterling.  The  Prince  of  Piombino  has  another  at  Mar- 
ciana,   that  clears  one  thoufand  pounds  per  annum. 

Porto-Ferraio  *  is  a  very  pretty  town,  built  on  a  (helv- 
ing rock   that  clofes  in  a   large   circular  bay  ;   the  land  all 

*  It  was  called  Portns  Argous  from  Argo,  the  fhip  of  Jafon,  which  the 
confuted  traditionary  legend  of  the  ancients  brought  out  ir.to  the  Mediter- 
ranean, that  Medea  might  have  an  opportunity  of  communing  with  her 
fitter  forcerefs  Circe.  Homer,  in  his  OdyfTey,  informs  us,  that,  by  the 
•particular  favour  of  Jove,  this  celebrated  fhip  palled  unhurt  through  the 
Straits  of  Scylla  and  Charybdis. 

F  around 


34 


VOYAGE    TO    NAPLES. 

around  is  high  and  woody ;  the  entrance  of  the  bay  wide, 
and  eafy  to  hit;  but  fo  open  to  the  N.  E.  winds,  that, 
when  they  blow  with  violence,  there  are  few  anchcring- 
places  where  a  fhip  can  ride  in  fecurity.  The  ftrects  and 
fortifications  rife  one  above  another,  like  rows  of  feats  in 
an  ancient  amphitheatre,  and  prefent  a  moil  beautiful 
fpeclacle  to  thofe  that  approach  by  water.  To  the  fea, 
nothing  appears  but  the  two  citadels,  Stella  and  Falcone. 
All  the  upper  range  of  works  is  cut  out  of  the  rock  into 
vaults  and  intricate  communications.  In  the  centre  of  the 
femicircle,  is  a  fmaller  port  or  darfena  for  boats  and  gallies, 
defended  by  a  couple  of  baftions,  and  {hut  up  every 
evening  with  a  boom.  A  commodious  quay  communicates 
with  all  the  ftreets,  by  means  of  large  flights  of  fteps, 

Elba  was  held  with  Piombino  by  the  Appiani  as  a  fief 
of  the  empire,  till  Charles  the  Fifth  thought  proper  to 
transfer  it  to  Cofmo  the  firft  duke  of  Florence,  that  he 
might  fecure  it  and  the  adjacent  coaft  from  the  infuks 
of  the  Turks  and  French,  which  the  preceding  feudatory, 
was  not  in  a  condition  to  repel.  The  duke  built  Ferraio 
in  1548  ;  but  it  was  not  brought  to  the  prefent  ftate  of 
perfection  before  the  reign  of  Cofmo  the  Second,  who 
completed  thefe  fortifications  in  1628,  with  a  magnificence 
equal  to  that  difplayed  by  the  old  Romans  in  their  public 
undertakings.  The  gates  are  decorated  with  :ulpture, 
and  the  rings  for  fattening  cables  to  are  of  car  cd  bronze. 
The  garrifon  is  fmall,    and  the    artillery    trilling,    for  fo 

large 


VOYAGE    TO    NAPLES. 

large    a  fortrefs ;     but  the    neutrality   of  its   mafler   is    its 
prefent  fecurity,  and  renders  a  ftronger  force  unneceflary. 


3S 


SECTION     II. 

np  HE  RE  being  no  appearance  of  a  favourable  change 
in  the  wind,  we  made  an  excurfion  to  the  iron  mines. 
We  croffed  the  bay,  and  afcended  the  mountain  by  a 
very  rugged  path.  The  gullies  that  feam  its  fides  are  full 
of  orchards,  with  fome  few  orange- trees,  cut  to  pieces  and 
ftunted  by  the  N.  W.  wind.  The  wafte  is  covered  with 
myrtle,  lauruftinus,  lentifcus,  arbutus,  and  many  other 
flowering  fhrubs.  The  fummit  of  thefe  mountains  is  bare 
of  wood,   but  not  of  verdure. 

On  a  maggy  rock  ftands  the  Tower  of  Voltoraio,  where 
fix  foldiers  defend  the  frontiers  of  the  Tufcan  ftate,  marked 
out  by  (tones  placed  in  angular  directions  along  the  top 
of  the  ridge  that  encompafles  the  bay  of  Porto- Ferraio. 
The  view  from  this  Tower  is  wonderfully  fine  every  way, 
as  the  eye  overlooks  the  whole  ifland,  that  of  Coriica, 
many  fcattered  iilets,  the  channel  of  Piombino,  and  a  great 
range  of  continent. 

We  defcended  on  the  eaft  fide  of  the  mountain  to  Rio, 
a  poor  village  inhabited  by  miners.  Under  it  breaks  out 
the  only  rivulet  in  Elba,  which  does  not  run  above  a  mile 

F  2  before 


36  VOYAGETONAPLES. 

before  it  falls  into  the  fea ;  but  the  water  gumes  out  of  the 
reck  in  fuch  abundance,  that  it  turns  feventeen  mills  in 
that  fhort  courfe.  We  followed  this  pretty  ft  ream  down  a 
narrow  vale,  cultivated  with  great  nicety,  and  planted  with 
orange  and  other  fruit-trees,  till  it  brought  us  to  the  cele» 
brated  iron  mine. 

This  mine  is  not,  like  moft  others,  coinpofed  of  ferru- 
ginous ftrata,  or  of  pieces  of  ore  difperfed  among  hetero- 
geneous fubftances,  in  horizontal  ftreaks  or  accidental 
lumps,  which  are  come  at  with  difficulty,  by  means  of 
galleries,  engines,  and  deep  pits ;  on  the  contrary,  it  forms 
one  large  hill  of  folid  ore,  worked  in  three  terraces,  after 
the  manner  of  a  fine  quarry  of  ftone,  by  clearing  away  the 
top,  and  hewing  or  blafting  the  rock,  till  it  drops  in 
fbivers  into  the  area,  from  whence  it  is  wheeled  to  the 
place  of  fale.  The  circumference  of  this  iron  hill  is  near 
three  miles,  and  the  depth  of  the  ore  to  the  ftaty  founda- 
tion about  three  hundred  feet.  Where  it  has  not  yet  been 
touched,  or  has  lain  undifturbed  many  years,  vines  and 
other  plants  grow  tolerably  well  on  the  furface,  and  are 
faid  by  Koeftlin  *  to  contain  particles  of  iron  in  their 
leaves  and  ftems,  as  may  be  difcovered  by  calcination.  If 
this  were  really  the  cafe,  which  I  very  much  doubt,  it 
would  give  a  greater  degree  of  credibility  to  the  ftories  told 
in  Hungary,  where  bits  of  gold  are  fhewn  adhering  to  the 

*  A  German  phyfician,  who  publilhed  an  account  of  Elba  in  17S0. 

.ftalfcs 


VOYAGE    TO    NAPLES. 

flalks  and  grapes  of  the  Tokay  vines,  fuppofed  to  have 
been  drawn  out  of  the  ground  by  the  plant  in  the  cogrfc 
of  vegetation. 

The  place  where  the  prefent  works  are  carried  on  re- 
fembles  a  funnel  with  one  fide  broken  down.  About  feven 
hundred  pounds  weight  of  gunpowder  are  confumed  annu- 
ally in  blafting,  and  one  hundred  and  fix  men  conftantly 
employed  with  the  pickaxe  or  barrow,  From  a  fcarcity 
of  wood,  none  of  the  ore  is  fmelted  on  the  ifland,  but  is 
fold  to  the  agents  of  the  Tufcan,  Roman,  Corfican,  and 
Neapolitan  furnaces,  at  the  rate  of  fifty-one  crowns  per 
cento;  a  weight  confifting  of  thirty-three  thoufand  three 
hundred  and  thirty-three  pounds  and  an  half  each.  The 
Corficans  and  Tufcans  have  a  right  to  pick  the  ore,  for 
which  they  pay  an  additional  price.  All  others  take  it 
unforted,  and,  with  every  parcel  of  large  ore,  are  obliged 
to  take  a  tenth  part  of  the  refufe  :  the  two  privileged  traders 
have  a  fifth. 

This  ore  is  beautiful,  abounding  in  rainbow  fhoots  and 
chriftallifations ;  but  although  it  appears  to  the  eye  and 
the  feel  to  be  almoft  one  folid  mafs  of  iron,  it  is  by  no 
means  fo  rich  as  many  iron  ores  in  the  north  of  Europe, 
and  hardly  yields  half  its  weight  in  pure  metal. 

It  is  a  doubt,  whether  this  mine  of  Rio  be  the  lame 
mentioned  by  Ariftatle,  and  other  ancient  authors,  to  haie 
been  open  in  their  time,  but  it  is  generally  believed  to  be 
fo.     Pini,   who  in  1777  gavea  difiertation  on  Liba,  makes 

a  catr 


37 


~ 


8  VOYAGE    TO    NAPLES. 

a  calculation  to  prove,  that  it  is  poftible  thefe  mines  may 
have  been  continually  wrought  fince  that  very  diftant  period, 
without  being  more  exhausted  than  we  fee  them.  He  fup- 
pofes  the  prefent  area,  where  the  ore  is  dug,  to  be  a 
c]  Under  of  live  thoufand  feet  in  circumference,  upon  a  depth 
of  two  hundred  feet,  canable  of  containing  three  hundred 

9  i  O 

and  ninety-feven  millions  feven  hundred  and  twenty-feven 
thoufand  cubic  feet  of  earth  or  ore,  of  which  only  one 
third  part,  or  one  hundred  and  thirty-two  millions  five 
.id  red  and  feventy-five  thoufand  fix  hundred  and  fixty- 
fjx  two  thirds  is  to  be  afiigned  to  the  folid  mineral;  that 
each  cubic  foot  of  ore  weighs  four  hundred  and  eight 
pounds ;  and  therefore,  that  the  whole  weight  of  the  ore 
hitherto  dug  out  amounts  to  fifty-four  thoufand  and  ninety 
millions  eight  hundred  and  feventy-two  thoufand  pounds 
Now,  for  many  years  back,  the  annual  exportation  has  not 
exceeded  forty-one  millions  fix  hundred  and  fixty  fix  thou- 
fand two  hundred  and  fifty  pounds  weight ;  by  which  com- 
putation it  appears,  that  it  would  require  one  thoufand  two 
hundred  and  ninety-eight  years  to  work  out  a  quantity 
equal  to  what  may  be  contained  in  the  above-mentioned 
area.  But  as  the  Steward  affured  me,  he  did  not  fell,  upon 
an  average,  more  than  thirty-five  millions  of  pounds  weight 
a  year,  the  allowance  made  by  Pini  is  too  great  by  near  a 
feventh.  Befides,  much  more  copper  was  ufed  anciently 
in  arms  and  utenfils  than  at  prefent ;  gunpowder  was  un- 

4  known, 


voyage   to   Naples: 

known,  and  confequently  greater  difficulties  attended  the 
miner's  art.  The  ore  of  Flba  was  probably  fmelted  at  no 
other  place  than  that  from  which  it  derived  its  name, 
Popnknium;  and  therefore  we  may  believe,  that  a  much 
fmaller  quantity  than  thirty-five  millions  was  annually  ex- 
tracted ;  confequently  the  mine  could  not  be  worked  down 
to  its  actual  ftate  in  fo  fhort  a  term  as  one  thoufand  two 
hundred  and  ninety-eight  years.  The  extent  of  the  part 
yet  untouched  will  afford  employment  for  many  ages  to 
come,  notwithftanding  the  greater  expedition  ufed  in  mo- 
dern metallurgy.  The  Prince  of  Piombino,  to  whom  thefe 
treafures  belong,  receives  from  the  fale,  commumbus  anmsy 
about  forty  thoufand  Roman  crowns  (nine  thoufand  five 
hundred  and  twenty- three  pounds  Sterling),  clear  of  all 
expences. 

The  ancients  were  of  opinion,  that  the  ore  was  re- 
produced in  a  courfe  of  years  by  a  fpecies  of  vegetation  ; 
and  fuch  has  been  the  fentiment  of  Come  moderns,  who 
allege,  that  many  pickaxes,  and  other  implements,  have 
been  found  in  old  workings,  covered  with  an  incruftation 
of  iron.  As  none  of  thefe  tools  have  been  met  with  in 
the  heart  of  the  viigin  rock,  but  always  in  the  trenches, 
where  the  fhiver  of  old  grooves  has  been  thrown,  the  cruft 
gathered  round  them  is  no  proof  of  the  regeneration  of  iron, 
It  is  plain,  that  this  coat  is  not  produced  by  the  fame  caufes 
that  create  an  incrcafe  of  bulk  in  plants,  viz.  the  aeceffion 
of  proper   food  and  juices  affimilating  themfelves  to   the 

plant, 


39- 


40 


VOYAGE    TO    NAPLES. 

plant,  and  becoming  part  of  it.  This  incruftation  is  no 
more  than  the  junction  of  innumerable  minute  particles 
of  iron  difperfed  in  the  rubbifli  of  the  works,  which  run 
together,  and  by  length  of  time  confolidate  into  a  mineral 
mafs. 


SECTION     III, 

/^\  N  the  twenty- fecond,  a  faint  breeze  carried  us  out 
of  the  harbour  of  Porto- Ferraio,  into  the  channel  that 
divides  Elba  from  the  Tulcan  coaft. 

The  captain  affined  me,  that  the  compafs  was  of  no  ufe 
in  fleering  a  iliip  within  four  leagues  of  Elba,  as  the 
needle  veered  about  continually  with  great  irregularity. 
Some  authors  deny  the  exigence  of  any  fuch  attraction  in 
the  ifland,  or  even  its  pollibi'ity ;  others  are  of  opinion, 
that  if  this  attractive  power  exift,  it  can  be  perceptible  only 
on  the  fide  where  the  mines  lie,  and  that  a  veflel  raufl  be 
very  near  the  ifland  to  be  within  the  reach  of  its  magnetic 
action.  Without  attempting  to  argue  the  point,  I  mall 
content  myfelf  with  mentioning,  that  I  perceived  the  ut- 
mofl  confufion  and  variation  in  the  needle  molt  part  of 
the  day,  though  we  conitantly  kept  at  the  diflance  of  a 
leao;ue  from  Elba. 

The  wind  was  low  and  unfettled,  and  twenty- four  Lours 
paiTed  in  tacks.  This  delay,  and  the  rinenefs  of  the  wea- 
ther, 


VOYAGE    TO     NAPLES.  4* 

ther,  afforded  leifure  to  examine  the  coaft  of  Tufcany, 
which  is  flat  and  woody,  backed  at  a  great  diftance  by  the 
mountains  of  Sienna ;  thofe  of  Montenero,  near  Leghorn, 
bound  the  horizon  to  the  north ;  and  on  the  fouth  quarter, 
the  ridge  behind  Orbitello,  with  the  infulated  promontory 
of  Monte  Argentato,  clofes  the  profpecl:.  The  channel  is 
about  ten  miles  wide ;  but,  from  the  clearnefs  of  the 
atmofphere,  does  not  appear  to  be  more  than  five.  Some 
fmall  iflands  difperfed  in  the  palTage,  the  high  lands  of 
Elba,  the  city  of  Piombino,  and  a  great  variety  of  vefTels 
failing  in  all  directions,  compofed  a  moft  delightful  marine 
piece,  worthy  of  the  pencil  of  a  Claude  or  a  Vernet. 

Piombino,  built  on  the  point  of  a  little  bay,  is  the  ca- 
pital of  a  principality  formerly  belonging  to  the  republic 
of  Pifa,  and  on  the  deftruclion  of  that  commonwealth, 
occupied  by  private  ufurpers.  From  the  fifteenth  century, 
it  was  poffefTed  by  the  Appiani  family,  which  became  ex- 
tincl:  in  the  reign  of  the  Emperor  Ferdinand  the  Second. 
He  feized  upon  it  as  an  imperial  efcheat ;  and  in  1634, 
fold  it  to  Nicholas  Ludovifi,  nephew  to  Pope  Gregory  the 
Fifteenth.  A  grand- daughter  of  Nicholas  carried  the  eftate 
and  honours   into    the  houfe  of  Buoncompagno,  Duke  of 


Sora. 


Not  far  from  hence  flood  the  ancient  city  of  Populonia, 
a  colony  of  the  Volterrans,  and  one  of  the  firfl;  cities  built 
in  Italy  near  the  fea-coaft.  After  the  fall  of  the  Roman 
empire,   this  place  became  a   prey  to   the  Goths  and  Lom- 

G  rds ; 


4* 


VOYAGE     TO    NAPLES. 

bards ;  and  at  laft,  Charlemagne  made  the  Pope  a  prefent 
of  it,  who  did  not  long  enjoy  the  advantages  of  the  do- 
nation ;  for  in  809,  fome  lawlefs  tribes  of  mountaineers 
levelled  Populonia  with  the  ground. 

In  the  morning  of  the  twenty- third,  fo  ftrong  a  gale 
fprang  up  in  the  S.  E.  that  we  were  glad  to  run  into 
Porto  Longone,  to  avoid  being  blown  through  the  channel 
back  to  the  coaft  of  France. 

Porto  Longone  is  a  confiderable  fortrefs,  begun  in  1606, 
and  completed  in  thirty  years.  Cardinal  Mazarin,  with  a 
view  of  difturbing  the  Spaniards  in  their  communication 
with  Italy,  and  of  mortifying  the  Pope,  whom  he  knew 
to  be  a  zealous  partifan  of  Spain,  fent  the  Marechal  de  la 
Meilleraie,  in  1646,  with  a  fleet  and  army,  to  attack 
Piombino  and  Porto  Longone.  The  former  was  carried 
in  a  few  days,  and  the  latter  obliged  to  capitulate  after  a 
fortnight's  fiege.  Both  places  were  retaken,  in  1650,  by 
Don  John  of  Auftria. 

It  is  now  garrifoned  by  Neapolitan  troops,  as  being  an- 
nexed to  the  crown  of  the  Two  Sicilies,  with  the  reft  of 
the  Tufcan  Prefidii,  fince  Philip  the  Fifth  ceded  to  his  fon 
Don  Carlos  all  his  claims  upon  that  kingdom.  It  ftands 
upon  the  north-eafi  promontory  of  a  large  bay.  At  the 
bottom  of  this  bay,  a  projecting  rock,  with  a  fmall  caftle 
upon  it,  defends  and  hides  the  entrance  of  the  harbour,  a 
pleafant  and  well-iheltered  cove.  At  the  foot  of  the  hills 
are  fmall  vallies  full  of  cottages  and  vineyards,  interfered 


c 


VOYAGE    TO    NAPLES. 

by  gravel  paths,  and  inclofed  with  hedges  of  arbutus, 
which,  at  this  feafon  of  the  year,  are  rendered  particularly 
beautiful  by  the  fcarlet  berries  that  almofi:  cover  the  bufhes. 
On  the  fouth  fide  is  a  fine  well  under  the  rock,  where  mips 
fend  their  boats  to  take  in  water. 


43 


SECTION     IV. 

/~\  N  the  twenty-fourth,  the  wind  coming  about  to  the 
northward,  and  the  weather  fetting-in  fine,  we  hoifted 
anchor  and  failed,  much  againft  the  will  of  our  crew, 
who  had  promifed  themfelves  a  pleafant  trip  on  more,  to 
hear  midnight  mafs,  and  make  a  Chriftmas  fupper.  There 
does  not  exift  a  more  dilatory  race  of  mariners  than  the 
Provencals.  If  they  were  not  prevented  by  fupercargoes 
and  pafTengers  from  indulging  their  loitering  difpofition, 
they  would  call  at  every  port  in  their  track,  and  wafte 
time  in  each  of  them.  The  captains  of  thefe  vefTels  eat 
out  all  their  profits  in  harbour,  and  not  one  in  a  hundred 
dies  worth  a  groat. 

In  the  afternoon,  we  defcried  to  the  weft  the  little 
ifland  of  Pianofa,  the  ancient  Planafia,  remarkable  for  the 
exile  and  death  of  Agrippa  Csefar,  the  poft humous  fon  of 
Marcus  Agrippa  and  Julia.  His  indifcretion  and  rough 
behaviour  furnifhed  Livia  with  the  means  of  ruining  him 

G  2  in 


44  VOYAGETONAPLES. 

in  the  opinion  of  his  grandfather  Auguftus.  who  annulled 
his  adoption,  conhTcated  his  eftates,  and  fent  him  into  this 
place  of  banifhment.  At  the  end  of  eight  years,  Auguftus 
paid  him  a  fecret  vifit,  which  being  made  known  to  Livia, 
roufed  her  fears  left  Agrippa  mould  be  recalled,  and  ap- 
pointed fucceflbr  to  the  Imperial  throne.  To  avert  fo 
fatal  a  blow  to  her  hopes,  fhe  haftened  the  end  of  the 
fuperannuated  Emperor,  and  fent  a  centurion  to  murder 
the  exiled  Prince.  Agrippa,  naturally  intrepid  and  robuft, 
made  an  obftinate  refiftance,  though  attacked  unawares, 
and  fell  covered  with  wounds,  the  firft  viitim  of  the 
bloody  reign  of  Tiberius. 

We  foon  after  failed  between  the  mainland  and  the  iflands 
of  Giglio  and  Giannuti  *,  fmall  granite  rocks,  covered 
with  bullies  and  uninhabited. 

The  wind  was  now  very  fair,  and  we  might  have  made 
much  way,  had  not  our  captain  been  fo  terrified  with  an 
appearance  of  bad  weather  to  windward,  that  he  inftantly 
put  the  helm  about,  and  ran  in  towards  the  road  of  Tela- 
mon  ;  but  as  foon  as  we  perceived  his  intention,  we  ob- 
liged him  to  refume  his  original  courfe,  having  learnt  from 
one  of  the  failors,  who  was  perfedly  acquainted  with  the 
navigation  of  thefe  feas,  that  if  we  reached  that  bay,  and 
a  ftorm  came  on,  we  mould  have  the  vexation  of  toiling 
about  at  anchor,    in  imminent  danger,    for  feveral  days, 

?  Igillium  &  Dianium. 

without 


VOYAGE    TO    NAPLES.  45 

without  a  poffibility  of  landing.  All  thefe  manoeuvres 
took  up  a  great  deal  of  time,  and  made  us  lofe  the  benefit 
of  the  breeze.  During  the  next  thirty  hours,  we  were 
under  the  neceflity  of  flanding  out  to  fea  in  a  heavy  fwell, 
in  order  to  keep  clear  of  the  Spiaggie  Romane,  a  lee-fhore, 
extending  thirty-fix  leagues  to  the  fouth,  and  extremely 
dangerous  with  a  wefterly  or  S.  W.  wind,  as  it  is  not  dis- 
cernible at  a  diftance,  and  the  fands  are  faid  to  reach  out 
near  feven  leagues  from  the  land. 

We  fleered  a  S.  W.  coaft  from  Giglio,  with  a  very  hard 
gale  and  a  terrible  fea,  for  at  leaf!  twenty-four  leagues,  a 
very  unnecelTary  elbow.  The  night  was  fqually,  the 
waves  fhort  and  furious ;  our  polacre  rolled  like  a  barrel, 
with  fuch  violent,  uneven,  and  fudden  fhocks,  that  it  was 
impofiible  to  be  prepared  againft  them.  The  confidence 
we  had  in  the  foundnefs  of  her  timbers  fupported  our  fpirits 
in  fuch  a  tremendous  fituation  ;  but  two  alarming  cir- 
cumftances  happened  in  the  night,  that  would  have  ftartled 
older  and  bolder  feamen  than  we  were.  Our  horfes,  that 
flood  in  flails  upon  deck,  broke  loofe,  and  were  with  diffi- 
culty fecured ;  our  kitchen  took  fire,  but  we  luckily  ex- 
tinguished the  flames  before  they  got  a-head.  The  return 
of  day-light  aflorded  but  a  dreary  profpecl :  a  raging 
tumbling  fea,  a  rolling  fhip,  fcarce  able  to  carry  any  fail,  and 
no  land  in  fight.  We  parTed  twelve  hours  very  unplea- 
fantly,  beating  back  in  a  S.  E.  direction  for  the  coaft  of 
Italy  j  and  I  think  I   never  heard  a  found  more  grateful    . 

to 


46  VOYAGE    TO    NAPLES. 

to  my  ears,  and  relieving  to  my  fpirits,  than  the  voice  of 
the  boy,  who  about  funfet  called  out  from  the  maft-head, 
that  he  faw  Cape  Circelli*.  We  were  now  paft  all  danger 
from  the  Roman  coaft ;  the  wind  was  fallen,  and  though 
it  was  extremely  cold,  and  fnowed  all  night,  the  fight  of 
land  made  us  quite  happy  and  reconciled  to  every  incon- 
venience. 

Before  day-break,    we  were    called   up   to   behold  the 
flames  ifluing  out  of  Mount  Vefuvius,  a  new  and  ftriking 
fcene  to   us  all.      This    welcome   to    Naples  was    doubly 
agreeable,  as  being  unexpected  ;  for  at  this  time  of  the  year, 
we  did  not  imagine  there  would   be   an  eruption.     Snow 
and  hazinefs  foon  deprived  us  of  the  view.     Jt  fell  a  dead 
calm   off  a    clufter    of  iflands,    called,    from   the    largefl: 
among  them,   the  Ponza  Ifles.     There  is  tolerable  anchor- 
age and  a  town  at  Ponza,   which  was  a  Roman  colony, 
where   Tiberius   caufed  Nero,    fon   of  Germanicus,   to   be 
ftarved    to   death.      The    afhes  of  this  unfortunate  Prince 
were  removed  to  Rome  by  his  brother  Caligula,  who,   not 
long  after,  banimed  his  fifters  Julia  and  Agrippina  to  the 
fame  fpot.      Among  the  writers  of  martyrology,   Ponza  is 
famous  for   the  exile  and  death  of  Flavia  Domitilla,  a  re- 


*  This  is  a  high   infulated   mountain,  at  the  fouthern  extremity  of  the 

Pomptine  Marflies,  in  the  Ecclefiaftical  State,  renowned  in  table  for  having 

been    the    refidence  of  the   Enchantrels  Circe,    who  transformed  men   into 

brutes,  and  whofe  connections  with  Ulyfies  are  defcribed  by  Homer  in  the 

tenth  and  twelfth  books  of  his  OdyfTey. 

*  lation 


VOYAGE    TO    NAPLES.  47 

lation  of  Domitian,  and  one  of  the  raoft  diftinguifhed 
profelites  of  the  infant  church  of  Chrift. 

Moft  part  of  the  day  was  fpent  in  weathering  Vento- 
tiene,  a  fmall  ifland  at  fome  diftance  E.  of  Ponza.  It  is  a 
rock  formed  of  vulcanical  matter  thrown  up  by  fire,  as  the 
obfervations  of  Sir  William  Hamilton  fufficiently  demonstrate. 
The  layers  of  its  cliffs  are  tinged  with  very  remarkable 
red  and  yellow  ftreaks.  The  ancients  called  it  Pandataria, 
and  made  ufe  of  it  as  a  receptable  for  criminals  of  an  exalted 
rank.  Julia,  the  daughter  of  Auguftus,  was  confined 
here  with  her  repudiated  mother  Scribonia,  who,  from  mere 
maternal  tendernefs,  followed  her  daughter  to  this  defert, 
a  voluntary  exile.  After  ten  years  miferable  exiftence  on 
this  rock  of  defolation,  the  unhappy  Julia  was  removed  to 
the  coafr.  of  Rhegium,  where  fhe  died  of  hunger. 

Pandataria,  which  had  been  the  prifon  of  the  wanton 
Julia,  became,  not  many  years  after,  the  place  of  con- 
finement allotted  to  her  virtuous  daughter  Agrippina.  The 
fpotlefs  reputation  of  this  matron,  joined  to  the  memory  of 
her  injured  hufband  Germanicus,  had  rendered  her  and  her 
children  objects  of  love  and  hope  to  the  Roman  people, 
and  confequently  of  jealoufy  and  hatred  to  Tiberius.  To 
quiet  his  apprehenfions,  and  crufh  at  once  all  the  expecta- 
tions Rome  might  cherifh  of  feeing  better  days,  the  tyrant 
caufed  the  young  Princes  to  be  murdered,  and  their  mother 
to  periili  in  Pandataria,  through  ill  ufage,  and  the  want  of 
every  necefTary  or  life.     Caligula,  her  only  furviving  fon, 

brought 


43  VOYAGE    TO    NAPLES. 

brought  her  allies  from  the  ifland,  and  depofited  them  with 
great  folemnity  in  the  Auguftan  Maufoleum. 

At  the  inftigation  of  Poppxa,  Nero  fent  hither  his  wife 
Oclavia,  daughter  of  Claudius,  and  ordered  her  to  be  put 
to  death,   by  opening  her  veins  in  a  bath. 

The  deflination  of  Ventotiene  is  at  prefent  fomewhat 
fimilar  to  what  it  was  in  the  time  of  the  Caefars ;  for  it  is 
now  inhabited  by  a  coniiderable  number  of  felons  con- 
demned to  banifhment  on  this  rock,  where  they  are  forced 
to  work  and  improve  the  fcanty  foil,  in  order  to  form  a 
fettlement  that  may  prevent  the  corfairs  of  Barbary  from 
rendezvousing  here. 

There  was  fo  little  wind,  that  our  pilot  was  afraid  we 
fhould  not  get  under  the  fhelter  of  Procida  before  niojit, 
which  would  have  been  an  unpleafant  circumflance,  as  the 
wind  might  have  rifen  again  while  we  were  at  its  mercy 
in  the  open  fea,  and  driven  us  down  to  the  coafls  of  Sicily 
or  Sardinia  :  fortunately  the  breeze  fufficed  to  carry  us  into 
the  channel  of  Procida,  where  we  came  to  an  anchor. 
The  night  was  Hill  and  mild,  and  we  pafled  great  part  of 
it  in  contemplating  Vefuvius,  which  we  now  diilinguimed 
very  plainly.  An  immenfe  river  of  blazing  lava  ran  down 
the  fide,  fupplied  by  ftreatus  of  red  hot  matter  vomited  at 
intervals  out  of  the  fummit  of  the  mountain.  The  whole 
atmofphere  was  illumined,  and  a  long  train  of  light  re- 
flected from  it  acrofs  the  gulph  upon  the  tremulous  furface 

of 


VOYAGE    TO    NAPLES.  4? 

of  the  waves,  was  as   beautiful,  if  not  more  fo,  than  the 
real  fiery  torrent. 

The  twenty-eighth  was  a  heavy  damp  day,  and  our 
failors  were  fo  difpirited  with  the  rain,  which  feems  to  be 
as  contrary  to  their  conftitution  as  it  is  to  that  of  the  ne- 
groes, that  it  required  the  promife  of  an  extraordinary 
recompence  to  prevail  upon  them  to  hoift  their  anchor. 
We  were  the  whole  day  in  failing  ten  miles ;  the  celebrated 
views  of  the  gulf  were  hidden  from  our  eyes  by  impenetrable 
fog  and  drizzling  rain ;  Vefuvius  alone  fometimes  reared 
his  burning  head  above  the  clouds,  and,  to  our  great  afto- 
nifhment,  was  covered  with  fnow  to  the  very  verge  of  the 
flaming  tip  of  the  cone.  At  ten  at  night  we  entered  the 
port  of  Naples. 


H  NAPLES, 


[    50    ] 


NAPLES,   and  its  ENVIRONS, 


section    m 

TH  E  unavoidable  hurry  upon  our  arrival  prevented 
me  from  vifiting  Vefuvius  while  the  eruption  con- 
tinued. As  foon  as  I  was  at  liberty,  I  hired  a  hackney 
two- wheeled  chaife,  called  a  Caleflb;  which  is  no  more 
than  a  very  uneafy  triangular  feat,  gilt  and  bedaubed  with 
gaudy  colours,  fixed  upon  an  axle-tree,  and  drawn  by  a 
fingle  horfe.  Some  of  thefe  horfes  fell  very  dear,  and  go 
at  a  prodigious  rate,  always  in  a  high  trot.  The  driver 
ftands  behind,  and  with  the  whip  and  voice  directs  the 
horfe's  motion.  The  hirer  holds  the  reins ;  but  is  not 
refponfible  for  any  mifchief  the  carriage  may  do,  unlefs 
he  alfo  take  poiTeflion  of  the  lafh.  The  reins  are  fattened 
to  a  cavefTon,  without  a  bit,  and  the  more  the  animal  is 
pulled,  the  fafter  he  goes :  a  hifs  flops  him. 

One 


VESUVIUS. 

One  of  thefe  chairs  conveyed  me  about  eight  miles  from 
Naples,  to  the  place  where  the  lava  ceafed  to  run,  after 
filling  up  a  road,  overturning  fomc  cottages,  and  con- 
fuming  a  wide  tract  of  vineyards.  The  poplars,  to  which 
the  vines  were  tied,  were  burnt  or  crufhed  beneath  the 
weight  of  the  cooler  lumps  that  tumbled  off  on  each  fide 
from  the  fiery  mafs.  The  furface  of  this  black  and  now 
fhgnant  river  is  very  uneven,  full  of  points  and  protube- 
rances, and  broken  into  chafms.  It  anfvvers  the  idea  I 
have  of  a  rocky  mountain  overturned  into  a  valley,  and 
fhattered  to  pieces  by  an  earthquake.  In  colour,  the  lava 
refembles  flag,  or  the  firfl  clearings  of  an  iron  mine.  The 
intenfe  heat  that  frill  iffued  from  it,  though  the  flames 
were  not  vifible  by  day- light,  kept  me  at  a  diftance.  By- 
night,  fire  may  be  feen  through  the  crevices  of  the  dufky 
cruft.  It  had  run  clofe  to  a  lava  of  feventeen  years  date, 
which  is  not  yet  fufficiently  triturated  by  the  action  of 
air,  to  afford  hold  to  the  feeds  of  any  plant,  except  a  long 
hoary  mofs,  commonly  the  firft  fettler  on  thefe  cinders, 
which  are  infinitely  fofter,  and  fooner  crumbled  to  duft3 
than  the  Sciarras  of  iEtna. 

After  Satisfying  my  curioflty  with  an  attentive  examina- 
tion of  thefe  objects,  I  returned  to  Portici,  hired  a  guide 
and  mule,  and  rode  up  through  the  vineyards  to  the  foot 
of  the  mountain,  where  vegetation  terminates  in  a  lonnr 
coarfe  grafs,  the  only  plant  that  can  bear  the  vicinity  of 
the   hot   allies  and  fulphureous   exhalations,     I  afeended 

H  2  the 


S* 


S2  VESUVIUS. 

the  fteep  cone  of  cinders  in  a  dire£t  line,  up  to  the  ancles 
at  every  ftep  in  purple  lukewarm  afhes.  The  heat  was  not 
very  powerful  till  we  came  within  a  few  yards  of  the  fum- 
mit,  and  there  fmoke  breaks  out  through  many  crannies. 
On  the  Portici  fide  there  is  very  little  lava,  except  a  {ew 
fcattered  ftones  that  ferve  to  reft  upon.  It  is  impoflible  to 
give  a  juft  idea  of  the  fatigue  of  this  climbing.  Before  that 
day  I  had  mounted  fome  very  exalted  points  of  the  Alps, 
and  clambered  up  the  higheft  peak  of  the  Pyrenees,  with- 
out feeling  fuch  oppreffive  wearinefs  and  exhauftion  of 
fpirits  and  ftrength  as  I  experienced  on  Vefuvius.  Perhaps, 
the  mephitic  effluvium,  which  attacked  my  refpiration, 
may  alio  have  had  a  debilitating  effect  upon  my  nerves  and 
mufcles.  I  mould  hardly  have  been  able  to  proceed,  had  I 
not  held  by  my  guide,  who  went  before  with  a  handker- 
chief tied  round  his  waift. 

I  confefs  I  was  a  good  deal  difappointed  on  reaching  the 
fummit ;  for  the  defcriptions  I  had  read  had  raifed  in  my 
imagination  an  expectation  of  every  thing  that  could  be 
glaring  and  ftriking  in  colours,  pompous  and  tremendous 
in  a  fcene  of  igneous  phenomena  ;  but  the  late  eruption 
had,  for  a  time,  laid  all  the  mountain's  fury  aOeep,  and 
every  thing  was  dull  and  dark.  The  vent,  by  which  the 
lava  ran  out,  is  much  below  the  top  of  the  mountain,  and 
on  that  ride  the  fulphureous  fteams  are  very  pungent.  I 
was  on  the  point  of  returning  rather  fruftrated  of  my 
hopes,  when  a  curling  column  of  fmoke   and    flame   rofe 

flowly 


VESUVIUS. 

flowly  out  of  the  gloomy  abyfs,  and  brought  up  with  it 
a  thick  white  cloud,  that  had  hitherto  rendered  the  crater 
impervious  to  my  fight.  The  wind  quickly  caught  hold 
of  this  column,  and  whirled  it  round  the  immenfe  caldron 
feveral  times  with  inconceivable  noife  and  velocity,  till 
it  forced  part  of  the  fmoke  to  fly  off  horizontally  from  the 
mountain,  and  darned  the  remainder  back  into  its  original 
cavern.  During  this  conflict,  on  the  oppofite  fide  to  that 
where  we  ftood,  I  had  a  peep  very  far  into  the  crater.  The 
fides  feemed  all  lava  and  fcoria,  with  very  little  variety  in 
the  tints,  clofed  at  bottom  by  an  impenetrable  fcreen  of 
fmoke.  I  have  feen  old  ruined  coalpits,  that  afford  a 
tolerable  idea  of  this  volcanic  kettle.  As  foon  as  the 
fmoke  was  driven  away,  the  roaring  below  grew  loud, 
and  frequent  explonons  were  heard  with  a  hollow  found  ; 
and  at  every  throe,  which  caufed  a  very  confiderable 
commotion  in  the  thin  arch  on  which  we  flood,  a  mower 
of  red-hot  ftones  was  mot  up  ;  but  not  riling  many  feet 
above  the  mountain,  they  did  not  come  within  the  fweep 
of  the  wind,  and  fo  fell  back  perpendicularly  into  the 
rumbling  gulf. 

I  fhall  not  prefume  to  inveitigate  minutely  the  origin, 
compofition,  or  operations  of  the  mountain,  as  we  have 
ample  information  on  this  fubje£t  in  the  works  of  Sir 
William  Hamilton.  His  knowledge  of  the  volcano  is  fo 
complete,  and  reputation  on  that  head  fo  firmly  eftablifhed 
at  Naples, .  that  more   than  once   the  court  has  waited  to. 

regulate 


53 


54 


VESUVIUS. 

regulate  its  ftay  at  Portici,  or  removal  from  thence,  till  he 
had  declared,  when  he  thought  the  eruption  would  begin, 
and  what  direction  the  lava  was  likely  to  follow.  Many 
writers  of  difiertations  on  ignivomous  mountains  have  been 
led  into  a  labyrinth  of  miftakes,  falfe  pofitions,  and  falfe 
confequences,  by  fruiting  folely  to  the  relations  of  others, 
and  not  being  at  the  pains  of  examining  the  phenomena 
with  their  own  eyes.  Whoever  has  not  had  the  advantage 
of  infpecling  an  active  volcano,  fhould  not  prefume  to 
write  upon  that  fubjedt,  as  he  muft  unavoidably  fall  into 
error,  in  fpite  of  all  the  learning,  combinations,  and  faga- 
city  the  wit  of  man  is  fufceptible  of.  Indeed,  fome  au- 
thors, who  have  had  Vefuvius  before  their  eyes  for  forty 
years,  have  likewife  fallen  into  ffrange  indefensible  opinions 
concerning  its  component  parts,  original  formation,  and 
modes  of  operating.  Attachment  to  fyftem  mifleads  us 
all,  and  frequently  caufes  us  to  fee  things,  not  as  they  are, 
but  as  we  wifh  to  find  them.  Nothing  but  the  defire  of 
proving  Vefuvius  to  be  a  primordial  mountain,  and  not 
the  produce  of  eruptions,  could  have  brought  Padre  della 
Tone  to  believe,  that  he  faw  regular,  original,  calcareous, 
and  granite  ftxata,  far  down  in  the  bowels  of  the  mountain; 
where,  if  he  faw  any  thing,  it  was  probably  ftreaks  of  ful- 
phureous  and  mineral  efliorefcences  adhering  to  the  coats 
of  the  funnel.  Nothing  but  fyftem  could  have  fo  blinded 
Richard,  as  to  prevent  his  finding  a  fingle  pumice  (tone, 
or  other  mark  of  fire,  in  the  rocks  of  Pofilipo,  where   any 

trivial 


VESUVIUS. 

trivial  obferver  may  meet  with  innumerable  black  calcined 
ftones,  though  he  may  not  be  fufficiently  converfant  in  the 
fubject  to  difcover,  that  the  whole  rock  owes  its  birth  to 
workings  of  volcanic  fires.  Without  prejudices  of  this 
kind,  could  other  authors  have  feen  nothing  in  Monte 
Somma,  and  the  hills  of  Naples,  but  primitive  fubftances, 
unaltered  fince  the  deluge  ;  when,  in  reality,  every  flone 
befpeaks  a  fiery  origin  ? 

To  be  convinced  that  Vefuvius  has  been  raifed  from  the 
level  of  the  plains,  or,  more  properly  fpeaking,  of  the  fea, 
by  the  fole  action  of  fire  contained  in  its  bowels,  requires, 
methinks,  nothing  but  an  eye  accuftomed  to  obferve,  and 
a  found  judgment  unbiafled  by  party.  I  own  I  cannot 
entertain  a  doubt  of  it,  after  having  confidered  the  infulated 
pofition,  and  apparent  compofition  of  the  mountain,  to- 
gether with  the  foil  of  all  the  adjacent  country  ;  after  hav- 
ing reflected  upon  the  birth  of  Monte  Nuovo  thrown  up 
to  the  perpendicular  height  of  two  hundred  feet,  in  the 
fhort  fpace  of  forty  eight  hours ;  and  upon  the  apparition 
of  many  iflands  raifed  out  of  the  bofom  of  the  waters  by 
fubmarine  fires,  of  which  both  ancient  and  modern  hiftory 
afford  examples.  The  ifland  of  Afcenfion,  and  many  in 
the  Archipelago,  one  of  which  rofe  out  of  the  fea  in  1707, 
completely  prove  this  affertion.  The  origin  of  the  ifle  of 
Rhodes,  as  related  in  Pindar's  feventh  Olympic,  feems  to 
be  of  the  fame  clafs.  This  poet  calls  Rhodes  a  native  of 
the  floods,  and  tells  us,   "  that  ancient  tales  of  men  relate, 

I  "  that 


55 


56  VESUVIUS. 

if  that  when  Jupiter  and  the  gods  divided  the  earth, 
"  Rhodes  was  not  vifible  amidft  the  marine  waves,  but 
"  lay  hid  in  the  briny  deep  *."  Apollo,  being  abfent,  was 
left  out  of  this  partition- treaty,  and,  on  his  appearance, 
Jupiter  would  have  proceeded  to  a  frefh  divifion ;  but  the 
God  of  Day  declined  the  offer,  contenting  himfelf  with 
dominions  that  did  not  interfere  with  any  god's  (hare  :  "  for 
"  (fays  he)  I  behold  in  the  frothy  fea  a  fruitful  land  riling 
"  from  the  bottom."  And  accordingly,  as  he  fpoke, 
"  Lo!  the  iiland  fhot  up  out  of  the  waters."  It  is  eafy 
to  trace  this  fable  to  its  fource,  the  heaving  up  of  the  foil 
at  the  bottom  of  the  fea  by  the  vehemence  of  fire. 

Whatever  may  have  been  the  origin  of  Vefuvius,  whether 
as  a  mountain  it  be  coeval  with  the  firft-  created  protube- 
rances of  this  globe,  or  whether  it  be  an  irregular  produc- 
tion of  ages  fubfequent  to  the  creation,  this  we  may  fafely 
affirm,    that  it  has  been  a  volcano  beyond  the  reach  of 

'Pyitrteg  knta  ojs 

XQovoc,   SajiovT7  Zsug  ti  Kctt,  uBctvtxjoi 

$>ccvspciv  sv  -zrsXccyei 

»n  '5*         "  ' 


-S7T£»  -mo'hiu.q 


EtVe  t\v  ccvlas  opai/  tvSov  BuXccrtrag 
'Aujrouevotv  ■mtaoBiv 
T\c'hu£,o<rKOV,  youuv  avS'pw 

B>i«Vt£  [JLtv  £,?  «Ao;  vy^%; 
Nucroj • 


hift 


ory 


VESUVIUS. 

hiflory  or  tradition.  Long  before  it  laid  Herculaneum 
wafte,  it  was  defcribed  by  authors  as  bearing  the  marks 
of  fire  on  its  fummit.  Some  even  fay,  the  report  of  its 
having  vomited  flames  went  fo  far  back  into  antiquity  as 
to  border  upon  fable.  A  mod  animated  defcription  of  its 
ravages  in  79  is  left  us  by  the  younger  Pliny,  who  was  a 
woeful  witnefs  to  all  he  relates.  From  that  time,  it  now 
and  then  burft  out,  and  alarmed  the  neighbouring  country; 
but  feemed  by  degrees  to  lofc  its  vigour,  till,  in  the  lower 
ages,  it  fcarce  gave  fufficient  alarm  to  merit  a  place  in 
the  chronicles  of  the  times.  In  1631,  it  broke  out  again 
with  accumulated  fury,  and  fpread  fuch  devaluation  around, 
as  almoft  equalled  the  horrors  of  the  firft  year  of  Titus. 
Since  that  epocha,  it  has  had  its  periods  of  turbulence  and 
repofe  ;  and  of  late  years  it  has  fo  redoubled  its  violence, 
as  to  emit  fmoke  continually,  and  every  year,  at  leaft,  a 
torrent  of  lava.  Whence  it  draws  its  immenfe  fupplies  of 
combuftibles,  and  how  long  its  prefent  cone  will  be  able 
to  bear  thefe  unremitting  efforts,  exceeds  the  power  of  all 
human  calculation.  I  believe,  however,  that  with  all  its 
terrors,  Vefuvius,  open  and  active,  is  lefs  hoftile  to  Naples, 
than  it  would  be,  if  its  eruptions  were  to  ceafe,  and  its 
ftruggles  were  to  be  confined  to  its  bowels :  then  undoubt- 
edly would  enfue  moft  fatal  fhocks  to  the  unliable  founda- 
tion of  the  Terra  di  Lavoro. 

The  day  being  clear,   I  made  fome  ftay  on   the  top,  to 
obtain  a  juft  idea  of  the  topography  of  this  curious  coun- 

I   2  try. 


57 


5S  VESUVIUS. 

try.     There   cannot    be  a   more  advantageous  ftation    for 

examining    Naples    and    its    environs,    as    Vefuvius    ftands 

finale,  at  a   diftance  from  all  other  mountains,  and   corn- 
to    ' 

mands  the  plains  of  Nola,  Capua,  and  Sarno,  the  chain 
of  the  Apennines,  the  promontory  of  Sorrento,  the  hills 
and  gulf  of  Naples,  with  all  its  iflands.  I  obferved,  that 
the  ridge  extending  weftward  from  Poggk>  Reale  to  Monte 
Gauro,  is  entirely  feparated  by  the  plains  from  every  other 
eminence,  and  conftitutes  a  vaft  detached  promontory,  full 
of  lakes  and  hollows,  the  craters  of  extinct  vulcanos.  On 
furveying  thofe  regions  from  this  elevated  pinacle,  it  ap- 
peared to  me,  that,  in  times  of  the  remoteft  antiquity, 
there  may  have  exifted  an  enormous  flaming  mountain, 
with  its  centrical  point  between  Ifchia  and  the  Camaldoli, 
and  that  Solfatara,  Aftruni,  Barbaro,  &c.  may  be  but  the 
excrefcences  and  montagnnole  of  one  gigantic  mafs,  which, 
after  exhaufting  its  force,  and  wearing  out  the  furface,  till 
it  grew  unable  to  fupport  its  own  weight,  may  have  funk, 
and  been  overwhelmed  by  the  waves.  The  gulf  of  Baia, 
and  the  channels  of  Ifchia  and  Procida,  may  have  been 
formed  by  this  cataclyfm.  The  fize  of  JEtna.  renders  fuch 
an  extent  no  objection  to  my  hypothecs,  and  fhews  to 
what  a  monftrous  bulk  a  mountain  can  fwell  itfelf.  Monte 
Epomeo  in  Ifchia,  and  the  Camaldoli,  are  both  abruptly 
broken  down  facing  each  other,  and  both  flope  off  very 
gradually  different  ways,  till  one  is  loft  in  the  Campi  Lebo- 
rinij  and  the  other  finks  into  the  fea. 

SEC- 


NAPLES.  59 


SECTION      VI. 

T  N  Chriftmas  time,  all  quarters  of  Naples  refound  with 
Pajlorali  or  Sicilianey  a  kind  of  fimple  rural  mufic, 
executed  by  Abruzzefe  or  Calabrian  fhepherds,  upon  a 
fpecies  of  bag  pipes,  called  in  Abruzzo,  Zampogna,  and 
Ciaramelli  in  Calabria.  The  tunes  vary  according  to  the 
provinces :  in  the  fouth,  they  have  three  different  airs ; 
the  northern  fhepherds  know  only  two,  to  which  they 
add  what  variations  the  boldnefs  of  their  own  genius  in- 
fpires.  The  boys  learn  of  their  fathers  to  play  upon  this 
inftrument  as  the  means  of  fubiiftence*.  At  other  fea- 
fons,  it  is  rare  to  hear  any  agreeable  founds  in  the  ftreets 
of  Naples,  though  it  is  the  nurfery  of  muiical  profeflbrs : 
a  fchool,  where  the  greateft  matters  have  imbibed  their 
principles,  and  acquired  that  knowledge  of  compofition, 
which  has  enchanted  the  ears  of  all  Europe.  There  is 
no  fuch  thing  as  a  national  mufic,  unlefs  we  pive  that 
name  to  a  monotonous  drawling  feguidilla,  that  ferves  the 
nurfes  f  as   a    lullaby    to    put  their  children    to   reft,  and 

*  The  waits  ft  ill  kept  in  the  pay  of  fome  corporations  in  England,  are 
counterparts  of  thefe  (hepherds. 

■f-  To  fecond  its  narcotic  influence,  they  adminifter  to  them  copious  doles 
of  Venice  treacle,  of  which  fuch  quantities  are  uled,  as  render  it  a  material 
article  of  importation.  The  Neapolitans  have  tears  at  command,  and  are 
Tery  eafily  moved  to  fhed  them.  Neither  blows  nor  carefles  can  flop  their 
children  when  once  they  begin  to  cry  :  they  mud  roar  till  they    re  tired. 

3  ft  cms 


60  NAPLES. 

fccms  borrowed  from  the  Spaniards,  who,  I  believe,  learnt 
it  of  the  Moors.  I  never  refided  in  any  Italian  town 
where  there  was  a  lefs  mufical  turn  in  the  populace :  few 
fongs,  guittars,  vielles,  or  organs,  enliven  the  evenings,  as  in 
the  northern  ftates  of  Italy,  unlefs  they  be  fent  for  to  entertain 
the  parties  that  in  fummer  fup  on  the  more  of  Pofilipo*. 

They  do  not  even  dance  to  mulic,  but  perform  the 
Tarantella  to  the  beating  of  a  kind  of  tambourine,  which 
was  in  ufe  among  their  anceftors,  as  appears  by  the  pic- 
tures of  Herculaneum.  The  Tarantella  is  a  low  dance, 
confiding  of  turns  on  the  heel,  much  footing  and  mapping 
of  the  fingers -f.  It  feems  the  delight  of  their  foul,  and 
a  conftant  holiday  diversion  of  the  young  women,  who  are, 
in  general,  far  from  handfome,  although  they  have  fine 
eyes  and  ftriking  features.  Their  hands  and  feet  are  clumfy, 
their  mapes  neglected,  their  necks  flabby,  and  their  fkins 
difcoloured  by  living  fo  much  in  the  fun  without  bonnets. 
Amongft  them  we  may  find  almoft  every  mode  of  hair- 
drefling  feen  on  the  Greek  and  Roman  coins  j. 

*  I  have  been  told,  that  before  the  famine  and  calamities  of  1764,  the 
populace  of  Naples  was  more  cheerful  and  mufically  inclined  than  at  prefent. 

-f-  Perfons  of  all  ranks  here  dance  very  low,  but  mark  the  time  as  per- 
fectly with  their  fteps,  as  other  nations  do  by  fpringing  from  the  ground. 

£  The  coiffure  of  the  yonnger  Faullina,  with  the  coil  of  plaited  hair  upon 
the  crown  of  the  head,  occurs  frequently  in  the  old  town-:  that  with  the  coil 
lower  down,  which  may  more  properly  be  filled  Lucilla's  head-drefs,  is 
common  among  the  younger  part  of  the  lex  in  the  fuburbs  of  Chiaia,  and 
Plotina's  among  the  women  more  advanced  in  years.  I  do  not  recollect  to 
have  feen  any  with  the  roll  of  trefles  fo  high  up  as  it  appears  on  the  head  of 
Fauftina  the  elder. 

The 


NAPLES.  6l 

The  women  are  always  fighting  and  fcolding,  but 
never  refill:  their  huibind's  authority,  when  he  comes  to 
feparate  the  combatants,  and  carry  home  his  difhevelled 
fpoufe,  who  feems  to  ftand  as  much  in  awe  of  her  confort, 
as  the  Ruffian  wives  do  of  theirs,  and  fuffers  herfelf  to  be 
beaten  by  him  with  as  little  murmuring.  I  was  fhevvn  a 
woman  here,  who,  during  the  life  of  her  firft  huiband,  was 
a  pattern  of  modefty  and  evennefs  of  temper  to  the  whole 
parifh;  but  upon  contracting  a  fecond  marriage,  furprized 
and  fcandalized  the  neighbourhood  with  her  perpetual  riots 
and  obftreperoufnefs.  On  being  reprimanded  for  her  beha- 
viour by  the  curate,  fhe  very  frankly  acknowledged  that  her 
former  huiband  underftood  the  management  of  a  wife,  and 
ufed  to  check  her  intemperate  burfts  of  paflion  by  timely 
correction  ;  but  that  her  prefent  helpmate  was  too  mild,  to 
apply  the  proper  chaftifement  which  every  wife  requires 
more  or  lefs.  Men  feldom  interfere  in  feminine  brawls ; 
and  if  they  do,  generally  content  themfelves  with  abufing, 
threatening,  or  making  a  cudgel  or  pitchfork  at  their  anta- 
gonist, till  the  crowd  comes  in  to  part  them.  Sometimes 
a  man  is  (tabbed,  but  this  is  a  rare  event  among  the 
fimermen,  the  clafs  of  inhabitants  I  have  had  mod  constantly 
under  my  eye.  Manners  vary  with  the  diftricls ,  in  fome 
they  engage  with  bludgeons,  and  thofe  are  the  true  lazaroni 
of  MafTaniello  ;  in  others  the  attack  is  made  with  knives 
and  other  deadly  weapons ;  but  the  Neapolitans  are  by  no 
means  fo  bloody  and  revengeful  a  people  as  they  are  repre- 
i  fen  ted 


q2  NAPLES. 

fented  by  many  travellers.  It  requires  more  than  a  flight 
provocation  to  lead  them  to  extremities.  During  the  pro- 
digious hurry  and  confufion  of  the  races  in  carnival,  not 
the  leaft  tumult  or  quarrel  was  heard  of;  and  even  in  the 
cruel  famine  of  1764,  the  only  act  of  violence  committed 
by  a  hungry  populace,  increafed  to  double  its  number  by 
the  concourfe  of  peafants  from  the  provinces,  where  all 
crops  had  failed,  was  to  break  open  and  pillage  a  fingle 
baker's  (hop.  Can  as  much  be  faid  for  the  temper  of  the 
mobs  at  London  and  Edinburgh  ?  Drunkennefs  is  not  a 
common  vice  at  Naples,  and  therefore  quarrels,  its  ufual 
confluences,  are  rare  ;  befides,  the  Neapolitan  rabble  allow 
each  ether  a  great  latitude  of  abufe  and  fcolding  before  they 
are  wound  up  to  a  fighting  pitch.  It  is  alfo  uncommon  to  fee 
anv  thing  in  public  like  gallantry  among  the  people ;  no 
fbidiers  are  met  leading  their  doxies,  or  girls  going  about  in 
qut  f  lovers ;  all  which  are,  in  other  countries,  fources  of 
riot  and  blood fhed.  At  Naples  there  is  nothing  but  a  mere 
nominal  police  ;  yet  burglaries  are  unknown,  riots  ftill  more 
fo,  and  the  number  of  aiTaflinations  inconfiderable  :  it  bears 
no  proportion  to  that  of  the  murders  committed  in  the  dis- 
tant provinces,  where,  I  am  credibly  informed,  no  lefs  than 
four  thoufand  perfons  are  killed  annually.  Mori  of  thefe 
crimes  are  perpetrated  with  guns  in  the  mountainous  coun- 
tries, where  a  great  ferocity  of  character,  and  wildnefs  of 
manners  prevail,  and  where  the  inhabitants  are  more  wan- 
dering, and  lefs  expofed  to  the  purfuits  of  the  law,  which  is 

indeed 


NAPLES.  63 

indeed  far  from  formidable  in  any  part  of  the  realm.  It 
would  require  a  prudent,  inflexible,  and  long  exertion  of 
impartial  criminal  juftice,  to  reduce  to  order  the  fierce  un- 
traceable aflaflln  of  the  mountainous  regions  of  Calabria, 
who  being  driven  by  the  oppreflion  of  the  barons  and  offi- 
cers of  the  revenue  to  penury  and  defpair,  lets  little  value 
upon  his  life,  and  braves  danger  to  the  laft  drop  of  his 
blood.  The  execution,  however  cruel,  of  a  few  bandittij 
would  ftrike  but  little  terror  into  their  affociates,  and  pro- 
duce no  effedr.  but  that  of  ridding  fociety  of  one  or  two  bad 
members ;  nor  will  any  meafures  of  police  ever  prove  effec- 
tual, unlefs  government  adopt  and  purfue,  with  fteadinefs,  a 
fyftem  that  may  leffen  the  grievances  of  the  poor,  reftrain 
the  defpotifm  of  the  petty  tyrants,  and,  by  providing  the  pea- 
fant  with  more  means  of  fupporting  himfelf  and  family  by 
honefl:  labour,  guard  him  againft  the  temptation  of  taking 
up  a  lavvlefs  line  of  life.  The  cafe  is  different  in  the  foft 
and  fertile  plains  of  the  happy  Campagna  ;  there  the  well- 
timed  prompt  execution  of  a  criminal^  without  allowing 
him  any  unneceffary  refpite  to  prepare  for  death,  and  with- 
out fuflering  priefta  to  affemble  round  him,  to  excite  the 
devotion,  compailion,  and  almoft  admiration  of  the  crowd, 
would  operate  with  great  energy  on  the  daftardly  minds  of 
the  docile  race  that  inhabits  this  charming  climate  ;  the  ter- 
ror of  active  juftice  would  prove  a  powerful  check  to  mur- 
der, and  violent  outrages. 

K  At 


<*4  NAPLES. 

At  prefent,  the  forms  of  criminal  jurifprudence  are  here 
fo  ill  ordained,  fo  multiplied  and  fo  complex,  that  if  the 
king  were  to  infift  upon  a  villain,  who  was  taken  in  the 
fadt,  being  tried,  and  if  found  guilty,  hanged  before  the 
end  of  three  days,  the  difpatch  would  almoft  kill  the  judges 
with  fatigue ;  for  the  trial  and  procedures  would  employ 
them  eighteen  hours  out  of  each  twenty-four :  Firft,  the  ac- 
cufation  muft  be  laid  according  to  rule,  and  witneffes  exa- 
mined ;  next  the  council  for  the  prifoner  pleads  a  couple  of 
hours ;  then  the  advocate  for  the  ffco  replies  during  one 
hour,  and  after  him  the  advocate  of  the  poor  makes  a  re- 
joinder, which  he  has  a  right  to  fpin  out  for  two  hours : 
this  done,  every  one  of  the  four  judges  harangues ;  then  all 
the  notifications  are  made,  examinations  canvafled,  proofs 
debated,  and  a  thoufand  trifling  formalities  obferved,  which 
occafion  fuch  fhameful,  infunnountable  delays,  as  eternize  a 
criminal  procefs.  It  happened  lately,  that  upon  the  final  de- 
termination of  the  trial,  and  condemnation  of  a  malefactor, 
a  mefTage  was  fent  to  the  jailor  to  bring  the  culprit  into 
court  in  order  to  receive  fentence  ;  when,  behold  !  the  turn- 
key appeared,  and  made  affidavit  that  the  prifoner  had  died 
of  a  lone*  fit  of  ficknefs  the  Chriftmas  twelvemonth  before. 
As  the  falary  of  a  judge  in  Naples  is  only  fifty  ducats  a 
month  (^9:7:6),  he  cannot  afford  to  be  honeft  or  ex- 
peditious :  but  the  cafe  is  ftill  worfc  in  the  provinces,  where 
the  judges  have  but  twenty-five  ducats,  and  with  that  mirft 
keep  a  coach  and  proper  houfehold  eftablifhment.  The  fcri- 
8  vani. 


NAPLES.  6$ 

vani,  or  commiflaries,  who  have  the  department  of  warrants, 
arrefts,  and  police,  are  allowed  no  pay,  though  they  muft 
keep  thirty  bailiffs  a-piece  under  them  ;  fo  that  they  are  na- 
turally very  active  in  taking  up  an  offender,  where  there  is  a 
probability  of  extorting  any  money  out  of  him ;  when  once 
in  durance,  the  prifoner  ceafes  to  be  an  object  of  confidera- 
tion  to  them,  and  therefore  they  take  no  pains  to  forward 
his  trial,  or  bring  him  to  juftice :  there  are  at  this  day 
above  twelve  thoufand  criminals  rotting  in  the  different  pri- 
sons of  the  kingdom,  whofe  maintenance  cofts  the  ftate 
above  two  hundred  thoufand  ducats  a  year  (thirty-feven 
thoufand  five  hundred  pounds). 

The  fifhermen  of  Santa  Lucia  are  the  handfomeft  men  in 
Naples ;  they  have  the  true  old  Grecian  features,  and  fuch 
well-proportioned  limbs,  that  they  might  ferve  for  models  in 
any  academy  of  defign  ;  they  are  the  moft  fubftantial  and 
beft  lodged  portion  of  the  Neapolitan  populace.  It  is  true, 
as  moft  writers  affert,  that  the  houferoom  of  this  metropolis 
is  very  inadequate  to  the  population,  which,  according  to  au- 
thentic accounts,  amounted,  at  the  clofe  of  the  year  1776,  to 
three  hundred  and  fifty  thoufand  fixty-one  fouls ;  and  that 
numbers  of-thefe  are  deftitute  of  houfe  and  property.  But  it 
is  not  equally  a  fact,  as  they  affert,  that  winter  and  fummer 
thefe  houfelefs  inhabitants  pafs  their  lives  in  the  open  air,  and 
fleep  in  all  weathers  in  the  ftreets.  In  fummer  it  is  very 
pleafant  fo  to  do,  but  in  winter  not  even  a  dog  could  bear 
the  inclemency  of  the  weather,  not  fo  much  on  account  of  ' 

K  2  cold 


66  N      A     P     L     E     5. 

cold,  as  of  wet.     When  the  rainy  feafon  fets  in,  it  com- 
monly  lafts  feveral  fucceflive  weeks,  falling,  not  in  fuch 
mowers  as  we  are  acquainted  with  in  England,  where  we 
have  rain  more  or  lefs  every  month  in  the  year,  but  by  pail- 
fuls,  an  abfolute  water-fpout,  that  carries  all  before  it,  and 
almoft  drowns  the  unfortunate  paffenger  who  is  caught  out 
of  doors  by  the  ftorm.     The  quantity  of  rain  at  Naples  is 
much  more  confiderable  than  that  which  falls  on  the  fame 
fpace  of  ground  in  England.    Whole  months  of  drought  are 
compenfated  by  the  deluge  of  a  day  :   and  befides,  the  fouth 
winds  are  frequently  fo  boifterous  in  winter,  as  to  burft  open 
the  bolts  of  both  doors  and  windows.     At  that  rainy  time 
of  the  year,  few  are  fo  wretched  and  helplefs  as  to  lie  in  the 
ftreet,  but  moft  of  the  vagrants  refort  to  the  caves  under 
Capodi  Monte,  where  they  fleep  in  crowds  like  flieep  in  a 
pinfold.     As  they  are  thus  provided  with  a  dwelling,    for 
which  no  rent  is  exacted,  they  alfo  procure  food  without 
the  trouble  of  cooking  or  keeping  houfe  :   the  markets  and 
principal  ftreets  are  lined  with  fellers  of  macaroni,  fried  and 
boiled   fifti,   puddings,   cakes>    and  vegetables  of  all  forts; 
where,  for  a  very  fmall  fum,  which  he  may  earn  by  a  little 
labour,  running  of  errands,  or  picking  of  pockets,  the  la- 
zaro  finds  a  ready  meal  at  all  hours :  the  flaggon  hanging 
out  at  every  corner  invites  him  to  quench  his  third  with 
wine  ;  or  if  he  prefers  water,  as  moft  of  them  do,  there  are 
flails  in  all  the  thoroughfares,  where  lemonade  and  iced  wa- 
ter are  fold.     The  paflion  for  iced  water  is  fo  great  and  fo 

general 


NAPLES.  67 

general  at  Naples,  that  none  but  mere  beggars  will  drink  it 
in  its  natural  ftate  ;  and,  I  believe,  a  fcarcity  of  bread  would 
not  be  more  feverely  felt  than  a  failure  of  fnow.  It  is  brought 
in  boats  every  morning  from  the  mountains  behind  Caftela- 
mare,  and  is  farmed  out  at  a  great  rent ;  the  Jefuits,  who 
pofleffed  a  large  capital,  as  well  as  the  true  fpirit  of  enter- 
prize,  had  purchafed  the  exclusive  privilege  of  fupplying  the 
city  with  it. 

Very  little  fuffices  to  clothe  the  lazaro,  except  on  holi- 
days;  and  then  he  is  indeed  tawdrily  decked  out,  with 
laced  jacket  and  flame -coloured  ftockings :  his  buckles  are 
of  enormous  magnitude,  and  feem  to  be  the  prototype  of 
thofe  with  which  our  prefent  men  of  mode  load  their  in- 
fteps.  The  women  are  alfo  very  fplendid  on  thofe  days  of 
(hew ;  but  their  hair  is  then  bound  up  in  tiffue  caps  and 
fcarlet  nets,  a  fafhion  much  lefs  becoming  than  their  every 
day  (imple  method.  Citizens  and  lawyers  are  plain  enough 
in  their  apparel,  but  the  female  part  of  their  family  vies 
with  the  firft  court  ladies  in  expenfive  drefs,  and  all  the  va- 
nities of  modim  fopperies.  Luxury  has  of  late  advanced 
with  gigantic  ftrides  in  Naples.  Forty  years  ago,  the  Nea- 
politan ladies  wore  nets  and  ribbons  on  their  heads,  as  the: 
Spanifh  women  do  to  this  day,  and  not  twenty  of  them; 
were  porTciTed  of  a  cap  ;  but  hair  plainly  dreft  is  a  mode 
now  confined  to  the  lovveft  order  of  inhabitants,  and  all  dif- 
tinch'on  of  drefs  between  the  wife  of  a  nobleman  and  that  of 
a  citizen  is  entirely  laid  alide,     Expence  and  extravagance 

are 


cS  NAPLES. 

are  here  in  the  extreme.  The  great  families  are  oppreft  with 
a  load  of  debt ;  the  working  part  of  the  community  always 
fpend  the  price  of  their  labour  before  they  receive  it  ;  and 
the  citizen  is  reduced  to  great  parfimony,  and  almoft  pe- 
nury, in  his  houfekeeping,  in  order  to  anfwer  thefe  demands 
of  external  fhew  :  fhort  commons  at  home  whet  his  appe- 
tite when  invited  out  to  dinner  ;  and  it  is  fcarce  credible 
what  quantities  of  victuals  he  will  devour.  The  nobility  in 
general  are  well  ferv.ed,  and  live  comfortably,  but  it  is  not 
their  cuftom  to  admit  Grangers  to  their  table ;  the  num- 
ber of  poor  dependants  who  dine  with  them,  and  cannot 
properly  be  introduced  into  company,  prevents  the  great  fa- 
milies from  inviting  foreigners :  another  reafon  may  be,  their 
fleeping  after  dinner  in  fo  regular  a  manner  as  to  undrels 
and  go  to  bed  :  no  ladies  or  gentlemen  finifli  their  toilet 
till  the  afternoon,  on  which  account  they  dine  at  twelve  or 
one  o'clock.  The  great  officers  of  ffate,  and  minifters,  live 
in  a  different  manner,  and  keep  fumptuous  tables,  to  which 
Grangers  and  others  have  frequent  invitations. 

The  eftablifhment  of  a  Neapolitan  grandee's  houfehold  is 
upon  a  very  expensive  plan  ;  the  number  of  fervants,  car- 
riages, and  horfes,  would  fuffice  for  a  fovereign  prince  ;  and 
the  wardrobe  of  their  wives  is  formed  upon  the  fame  mag- 
nificent fcale  ;  yet  it  is  a  fixed  rule,  that  all  ladies  whatever, 
be  the  circumftance  of  their  hufbands  affluent  or  circum- 
fcribed,  have  an  hundred  ducats  a  month,  and  no  more, 
allowed  them  for  pin-money.     At  the  birth  of  every  child, 

the 


NAPLES.  €9 

the  hufband  makes  his  wife  a  prefent  of  an  hundred  ounces, 
and  fome  valuable  trinkets,  according  to  his  fortune.  Mar- 
riage portions  are  not  very  great  in  general  ;  it  does  not 
coft  a  nobleman  more  to  marry  a  daughter  than  it  does  to 
make  her  a  nun  •  for  a  thoufand  pounds  will  not  defray  the 
expence  of  the  ceremonies  at  her  reception  and  profefTion  : 
me  mutt  have  a  penfion  fettled  upon  her,  and  referves,  be- 
sides, a  power  over  her  inheritance,  in  cafe  fhe  fhall  arrive 
at  any  dignity  in  the  convent,  and  wifh  to  enrich  it  with 
buildings,  plate,  or  veftments. 

Servants  and  artificers  of  the  city  give  from  fifty  to  an 
hundred  ducats  with  their-  daughters ;  peafants  and  country 
workmen  go  as  far  as  three  hundred.  Females  at  and 
near  Naples  are  etteemed  helplefs  and  indolent,  and  there- 
fore have  always  twice  or  thrice  as  much  fortune  as  their 
brothers,  who  have  greater  refources  in,  their  ttrength  and 
activity.  A  girl  would  fcarce  get  a  hufband,  if  her  lover 
did  not  expect  to  be  reimburfed  by  her  portion  the  fum  he 
had  paid  away  with  his  own  fitters.  In  the  plains,  it  is 
cuftomary  for  a  peafant,  on  the  birth  of  a  daughter,  to 
plant  a  row  of  poplar  trees,  which  are  cut  down  and  fold  at 
the  end  of  feventeen  years,  to  make  up  a  fortune  for  her. 
The  proverbial  benediction  of  Figlij  tnafchi^  Male  children, 
which  a  Neapolitan  gives  a  woman  when  me  fneezes,  is 
founded  on  the  great  facility  with  which  the  common 
people  provide  for  their  fons :  as  foon  as  they  can  run  about 
they  are  able  to  earn  their  bread,  while  their  fitters  remain 

idle 


7° 


NAPLES. 

idle  at  home,  or  beg  till  they  are  old  enough  to  attrad  the 
notice  of  the  men. 


SECTION     VII. 

*TpHIS  kingdom  confifts  of  twelve  provinces,  of  which 
the  fuperficies  meafures  fourteen  millions  five  hundred 
and  eight  thoufand  nine  hundred  and  feventy-three  mog- 
gie. In  two  thoufand  and  fixty-feven  cities,  towns,  vil- 
lages, or  hamlets,  it  contains  about  four  millions  five  hun- 
dred  thoufand  inhabitants,  which  is  not  more  than  half  the 
population  that  fo  fertile  a  country  might  fupport.  A  duty 
is  levied  upon  landed  property,  partly  by  a  land  tax,  and 
partly  by  impofitions  on  confumption,  taxes  for  roads,  bridges, 
repairs,  and  other  public  exigencies,  in  the  perception  of 
which  infinite  abufes  are  committed  *. 

Upon  a  calculation  of  ten  years,  the  average  quantity  of 
wheat  fown  in  the  kingdom  amounts  to  little  more  than 
two  million  five  hundred  thoufand  tomoli  ;  a  tomolo  is  a 
fufficient  quantity  for  a  moggia.     Six  hundred  and  twenty- 

*  In  fome  parts  of  the  kingdom  an  afTefiment  is  made  by  the  king's  offi- 
cers, and  thofe  parts  are  governed  by  gabella.  Others  are  upon  a  freer  foot- 
in»,  and  regulated  by  acatafto;  this  is  a  regifter  kept  in  each  diftricl,  or 
univerfitii,  wherein  are  marked  the  incomes  of  all  the  inhabitants,  who  are 
taxed  in  proportion  to  the  number  of  ounces  they  pofiefs,  towards  completing 
the  fum  demanded  of  the  diftrift  by  the  king.  This  ounce  contains  three  car- 
lini.  A  fuoco  implies  a  family,  or  five  perfons. 

/l  five 


NAPLES. 

five  thoufand  moggie  are  fovvn  with  barley  and  lent  grain, 
and  two  hundred  and  fifty  thoufand  with  Indian  corn  and 
pulfe;  but  it  is  fuppofed  by  good  judges,  that  one  million 
feven  hundred  and  fixty  four  thoufand,  five  hundred  and 
eighteen  moggie  more  might  be  fovvn  with  wheat,  five 
hundred  and  eighty-four  thoufand  and  eighty-one  moggie 
with  barley,  oats,  and  other  lenten  corn,  and  with  pulfe 
and  Indian  corn,  one  hundred  and  twelve  thoufand,  feven 
hundred  and  twenty-four  moggie,  or  thereabouts. 

The  ufual  produce  of  wheat,  on  an  average,  of  the  lafl 
ten  years,  comes  to  about  twenty-two  millions  tomoli,  rec- 
koning it  about  eight  tomoli  per  moggia  per  annum  between 
the  more  and  lefs  fertile  lands* 

Tomoli. 

For  feed  there  go  -  -  2,500,000 

For  the  consumption  of  the  inhabitants,  in  num.- 

T  * 

ber  4,4.87,^28,  at  five  tomoli  a  head,     -      22,438,140 

243938>I40 

But  four  tomoli  a  head  being  a  jufter  calculation,  be- 
caufe  in  feveral  provinces  the  common  people  live  upon 
bread  made  of  Turkey  wheat,  barley,  cheitnuts,  &c. 
the  necefiary  confumption  in  wheat  ought  to  be  Mated 
only  at  -  -  17>950,5I2 

Add  for  ked  -  -  2,500,000 


76 


20,450,512 


ft  NAPLES. 

Confequently  there  remain  for  exportation,  one  year  with 
another,  about  one  million  and  a  half  of  tomoli. 

In  fome  grounds,  where  beans  and  Indian  corn  have  been 
gathered,  it  is  ufual  to  fow  wheat  the  fame  year,  and  thofe 
lands  are  called  Maggifi.  It  is  thought  that  four  millions  of 
Moggi  are  fit  for  the  reception  of  wheat,  but  two  thirds  of 
them  are  not  fown,  through  the  bad  ceconomy  of  govern- 
ment, impofitions,  vexations,  &c.  In  the  territory  of 
Foggia,  part  of  Puglia,  there  is  reckoned  to  be  an  extent  of 
one  hundred  and  fifty  thoufand  verfure  proper  for  corn ; 
each  verfura  will  take  three  and  a  half  tomoli  of  wheat  to 
fow,  or  four  and  a  half  tomoli  of  barley.  However,  till  the 
year  1767,  no  more  was  ever  fown  than  fifty-three  thou- 
fand verfure,  not  even  in  1764,  at  the  time  of  the  famine, 
though,  in  order  to  fecure  an  ample  fupply  for  the  next 
year,  the  tenants  threw  upon  the  lands  more  feed-corn  than 
ufual,  and  exerted  themfelves  to  the  utmoft  of  their  abili- 
ties. Abufes  in  adminiftration,  and  rapacity  in  the  tax- 
oatherers,  defeat  all  fchemes  of  improvement  in  hufbandry. 
In  1767,  one  hundred  and  eleven  thoufand  verfure  were 
fown  in  the  territory  of  Foggia.  If  the  three  million  moggie 
of  land  fit  for  the  plough,  more  than  the  quantity  actually 
in  tillage,  were  fown  with  corn,  the  kingdom  might  pro- 
bably produce  thirty-two  millions  tomoli  of  wheat,  inftead 
of  twenty-two  millions ;  and  the  exportation  of  grain  might 
then  be  always  kept  open  without  danger,  and  to  the  great 
advantage  of  the  cultivators. 

It 


NAPLES.  ;j 

It  is  calculated  that  the  culture  of  corn  employs  ten  per- 
sons, that  of  the  vine  at  lealt  twenty. 

The  chief  exportation  of  corn  is  made  from  the  provinces 
of  Capitanata,  Bari,  Otranto,  Abruzzo,  Molife,  Calabria, 
and  Bafilicata  :  they  fupply  the  internal  confumption  of  the 
kingdom  and  foreign  markets.  The  product  of  the  Terra 
di  Lavoro,  and  Salerno,  is  referved  for  the  ufe  of  the 
capital. 

The  exports  of  the  kingdom  of  Naples  are,  wheat,  bar- 
ley, legumes,  Indian  corn ;  hemp,  line,  cummin,  fennel, 
and  annifeeds ;  wool,  oil,  wine,  cheefe,  fifh,  fait  flefh,  ho- 
ney, wax,  frtfh.  and  dry  fruit,  manna,  faffron,  liquorice, 
feccia  brucciata,  gums,  locuft  beans,  capers,  lupins,  pajle^ 
macaroni  of  various  forts,  falt3  potafh,  brimftone,  nitre,  ar- 
gal,  pitch,  tar,  fumach,  fkins,  cattle,  oranges,  lemons,  brandy, 
vinegar,  metals,  minerals,  marble,  filk,  hemp,  flax,  cot- 
tons, and  divers  forts  of  manufactures.  All  thcfe  products 
might  be  fent  out  in  very  great  quantities,  if  proper  encou- 
ragement were  given  ;  and  both  horfes  and  cattle  might  be- 
come valuable  articles  of  exportation,  if  the  breed  were  at- 
tended to. 

The  provinces  moll  abundant  in  oil  are,  Bari,  Otranto, 
Calabria,  and  Abruzzo.  The  product,  upon  ten  years  aver- 
age, has  been  efteemed  at  fix  hundred  thoufand  falme.  The 
confumption  of  the  whole  kingdom,  including  the  capital, 
rarely  exceeds  three  hundred  thoufand  falme,  yet  the  ex- 
portation of  late  years  has  feldom  amounted  to  forty  thou- 

L  2  fand 


74 


NAPLES. 

fond  falme,  except  in  the  year  1767,  when  it  was  greater,, 
on  account  of  the  general   failure    of   olives   throughout 

Spain. 

The  city  of  Naples  confumes  annually  thirty-feven  thou- 
fand  five  hundred  falme  of  clear  oils,  and  about  three  thou- 
fand  of  dirty  oils. 

The  duties  upon  a  falm  of  oil  exported  from  Gallipoli  or 

Taranto  are, 

Due.  Gr. 

For  the  treafury,  -  -  10 

Farm  of  oil  and  foap,  called  Arrendamento,       -        3      30- 

Cuftomhoufes  of  Puglia,  for  extraction,  -  o     75 

The  cuftomhoufe's  valuation  of  faid  oil  in  the  ports 

fhould  be  D.  1  2  per  falm,  on  which  fhould  be 

paid  at  the  rate  of  67  G.  per  ounce  of  D.  6, 

which  comes  to  -  -  2     34, 

D.   6     39 

But  this  varies,  and  is  now  got  up  to  near  D.  8  per  falm.. 
Oil  imported  into  Naples  bears  a  Duty  of  D.  1    32^  per 

falm. 

The  high  excife  and  farm  upon  brandies  prevents  the 
diftillation  of  that  commodity  from  the  immenfe  quantity 
of  wines  that  are  produced.  Moft  of  thefe  wines  would  bear 
long  fea  voyages,  if  the  proprietors  could  afford  the  expence 
of  good  brandy  to  mix  with  them.  From  the  high  duties  a, 
fmall  exportation  only  takes  place  of  coarfe  wines  for  Hol- 
land, and  of  the  Greek  wine  of  Vefuvius  for  other  places. 
6  The 


NAPLES.  75 

The  produce  of  filk  in  the  kingdom  is  computed  at  about 
eight  hundred  thoufand  pounds  weight  annually,  of  which 
half  is  fuppofed  to  be  worked  at  home,  and  the  other  half 
exported  raw.  Double  the  quantity  might  be  fold  un- 
wrought,  and  double  might  be  manufactured,  were  it  not 
prevented  by  the  high  duties  on  exportation,  and  on  im- 
portation into  the  capital,  together  with  the  tyranny  and 
exactions  of  the  excife  officers  of  the  provinces. 

The  exportation  of  thrown  filk,  upon  an  average  of  many 
years,  amounts  to  one  hundred  and  forty-eight  thoufand  two 
hundred  and  feventeen  pounds. 

The  exportation  of  raw  filk  from  the  Calabrias,  through* 
the  cuftom-houfe,  is  about  fifty-three  thoufand  pounds ; 
but  perhaps  double  that  quantity  is  fmuggled  to  Leghorn* 
and  other  parts. 

Among  the  many  vexations  and  impofitions  on  raw  filk: 
produced  in  the  kingdom,  may  be  reckoned  the  unjufr.  pro- 
ceedings of  the  deputies  of  the  royal  farms,  and  adminifcra- 
tors  of  the  excife,  who,  as  foon  as  the  filk  is  drawn  off  by 
the  poor  people  from  the  pods,  out  of  the  caldron,  weigh 
it,  and  note  down  the  weight  in  a  book.  When  the  filk  is- 
fold,  they  oblige  the  vender  to  pay  the  duty  upon  the  faid 
weight,  though  the  filk  was  heavy  with  water,  on  a  cruel- 
fuppofition  that  they  have  fmuggled  the  difference;  fo  that 
the  poor  creatures  actually  pay  duty-  for  a  portion  of  water. 

A  gabel  of  a  grain  a  pound  is  even  laid  upon  the  refufe* 
pods,    which  formerly  were    untaxed.      The  duties   upon: 

filk 


76  NAPLES. 

{ilk  in  Calabria  come  to  forty-two  and  a  half  grains  per 
pound,  including  feven  grains  per  pound  for  a  duty  called 
di  Bifignano.  That  of  the  Terra  di  Lavoro,  Baii'icata,  Sa- 
lemo,  and  Abruzzo,  is  forty  one  grains  per  pound  :  but 
then  there  is  another  duty  of  twelve  grains  and  feven  tenths 
per  pound  on  the  exportation  of  raw  liik  lefs  ten  percent, 
for  package,  and  about  ten  grairs  for  thrown  {ilk  lefs 
twenty  per  cent,  for  package,  and  five  per  cent,  for  wet. 

No  fmall  quantity  of  cotton  is  gathered  in  the  Terra  di 
Bari,  and  the  diftricts  of  the  cities  of  Turfi  and  Gravina  ; 
but  the  beft  is  in  the  province  of  Lecce.  Venice  takes  off  a 
wood  deal  annually,  as  alfo  of  the  wool. 

Almonds  abound  in  the  territories  of  Bari,  Lecce,  and 
the  Abruzzi ;  but  the  beft  come  from  Bari,  where  they  are 
exported  to  Venice  and  Triefte.  A  duty  of  three  ducats 
ninety  four  grains  per  canto  ruins  this  trade. 

In  Calabria  there  are  natural  mountains  of  fait,  ftrong-er 
and  more  active  than  fea  fait ;  but  the  mines  are  fruit  up, 
not  to  hurt  the  revenue,  which  reaps  great  benefit  by  the 
high  duties  upon  that  article.  At  Naples  the  gabel  is  almoft 
five  times  more  than  the  firft  coff.  of  the  commodity  in  Sicily. 

All  manufactures  fent  from  the  capital  into  the  provinces, 
and  all  that  are  exported  out  of  the  kingdom  (though  the 
firfl:  fpecies  with  which  they  were  fabricated  had  already 
paid  the  cuftomhoufe  duties)  are  neverthelefs  lia'le  to  a 
charge  of  fixteen  to  twenty  per  cent,  called  Miglioria.  No- 
thing is  excepted  but  fweetmeats  and  chocolate. 

The 


NAPLES. 

The  duties  levied  upon  the  Miglioria  or  Minutillo,  amount 
annually  to  feventy-iour  thoufand  nine  hundred  and  nine 
ducats,  of  which  fourteen  thoufand  belong  to  the  city  of 
Naples,  upon  the  impolition  of  twenty-three  grains  per 
ounce,  and  the  reft  goes  into  the  cuftomhoufe,  paid  upon 
manufactures. 

Confumption  of  corn  in  the  city  of  Naples. 

Tomoli. 

In  bread  for  the  public,  -                  -          400,000 

Maccaroni,                         -  -                 160,000 

Taralli,  or  little  bifcuits,  -                 -               50,000 

Meal  at  the  great  market,  -                   -             300,000 

Meal  at  twelve  other  (tails  in  the  city,  -            300,000 

Fine  fkur,   95,000  cantara,  -                 -           300,000 

For  i"he  land  and  fea  troops,  -              -          120,000 

Charity- fchools  and  convents,  -                1,200,000 

Per  annum,     2,830,000 

Horned  cattle,  -  -  25,000 

Sorrento  calves,  -  -  3,000 

Hogi,  between  the  market  and  other  places,,  45,000 

Eggs   from   the  neighbourhood,   befidcs  what  are 

produced  in  the  city,  60,000  per  diem. 
Oil,  ftars  of  ten  and  one  third  rotoli  each,        -        600,000 

There  is  in  the  kingdom  of  Naples  a  fund  of  more  than 
fifty  millions  of  ducats  belonging  to  the  exchequer,  duties, 
and  other  public  effects.     It  ought   be  converted  into  a 

public 


77 


7S  NAPLES. 

public  bank,  bearing  proper  intereft  ;  but,  inftead  thereof, 
the  produce  is  in  a  great  meafure  abforbed  by  the  falaries 
and  peculation  of  the  fubaltern  financiers,  to  the  great  dis- 
advantage of  the  public. 

According  to  the  befi:  authenticated  accounts,  the  current 
coin  of  the  kingdom  of  Naples,  in  gold,  filver,  and  brafs,  is 
between  eight  and  nine  millions  of  ducats,  which  is  not  Suf- 
ficient for  the  circulation  of  a  very  extenfive  commerce : 
for  although  the  notes  of  feven  public  banks,  eftablifhed  in 
the  city  of  Naples,  circulate  even  down  to  the  value  of  the 
fmallefr,  fums,  yet  the  equivalent  is  paid  into  thefe  banks  by 
the  proprietors,  or  by  creditors,  in  money,  as  into  bankers 
hands  in  London,  without  any  allowance  of  intereft :  and 
therefore  this  mode  of  payment  only  ferves  for  the  readier 
difpatch  of  bufinefs,  and  faving  of  fome  trouble,  but  does 
not  increafe  the  circulation ;  nor  is  there  any  paper  iflued 
out  that  bears  a  premium. 

All  bills  of  exchange,  court  tranfactions,  civil,  military, 
ecclefiaftical  and  mercantile  payments,  are  made  either  by 
bank-bills,  called  fedi  di  credito,  or  by  drafts  on  the  faid 
banks,  explaining  the  caufes  at  length  of  faid  payments,  for 
which  reafon  no  receipts  are  taken.  The  perfon  who  is  in 
pofTeiTion  of  a  bank-bill  or  draft,  is  in  rigour  obliged  to  pafs 
it  as  his  own  in  the  fpace  of  twenty-four  hours ;  otherwife 
fhould  the  bank  fail,  the  holder  of  the  bank-bill  has  no  re- 
drefs  againft  the  perfon  who  paid  it  him.  In  this  century 
there  has  been  an  inftance  of  the  failure  of  a  bank.  viz. 

that 


NAPLES. 

that  of  L'Annunziata.  There  is  a  law  ftill  exifting,  though 
not  enforced,  which  declares,  that  no  payment  above  fix 
ducats  mall  be  valid,  unlefs  made  by  one  of  the  banks. 
Thefe  banks  are  at  prefent  feven  in  number,  viz.  S.  Gia-- 
como,  S.  Eligio,  S.  Salvatore,  Poveri,  Pieta,  Spirito  Santo, 
and  Popolo.  They  ferve  as  public  depofitories  of  money  ; 
more  or  lefs  they  all  take  in  pawns  to  an  immenfe  value, 
at  ftated  interefts,  and  lend  money  alfo  upon  proper  fecurity 
of  lands,  houfes,  &c. 

There  is  a  company  of  aflurance,  with  a  jus  privativum, 
which  is  contrary  to  the  intereft  of  commerce.  The  profits 
of  this  affociation,  in  the  flrft  ten  years  after  its  inftitution, 
were  upwards  of  ten  per  cent,  and  at  the  end  of  the  next 
five  years,  in  1766,  rofe  to  twenty  per  cent.  It  would 
therefore  be  an  advantage  for  the  ftate,  if  the  number  of  in- 
furance- offices  were  increafed,  as  the  gains  on  the  whole, 
though  divided,  would  increafe  alfo.  The  rifc  begins  from 
the  moment  the  goods  are  put  on  board,  and  continues  till 
the  arrival  of  the  fhip,  and  her  total  difcharge  of  the  goods, 
which  is  a  good  cuftom  for  the  infured. 

Merchandise    imported  into  Naples. 

From  England — Woollen  goods  of  all  forts,  filk  and  wor- 
ked ftockings,  hats,  tanned  hides,  lead,  tin,  pepper,  hard- 
ware, linens,  handkerchiefs,  fans,  canes,  gums,  dying- 
woods,  drugs,  watches,   clocks,   mathematical  inftruments, 

M  houfehold 


79 


8o 


NAPLES. 

houfehold  furniture,   fait  cod,   pilchards,    herrings,   coffee,. 
tea,   cocoa,  fugar,  and  occafionally  calicoes  and  Eafi  India 

goods. 

Holland — Cinnamon,  cloves,  nutmeg,  pepper,  medicinal 
clrucrs  from  the  Eaft  and  Weft  Indies,  fine  cloths,  particu- 
larly the  black,  called  Segovia,  linen  for  Hurts  and  other 
ufes,  muflins,  chintz,  callicoes,  feveral  forts  of  cocoa,  whale- 
bone, tobacco,  filk  (luffs  and  velvet. 

France — An  immenfe  quantity  of  fugar,  indigo,  coffee, 
dying-woods,  verdigreafe,  Levant  drugs,  cocoa,  hardware, 
filk  fluffs,  geld  and  filver,  fays  of  Le  Mans,  du  roy,  cloths 
cf  Elbeuf,  and  all  forts  of  women's  apparel. 

Spain — Sugar,  cochineal,  dying-woods,  cocoa,  hides 
faked  and  in  the  hair,  medicinal  American  drugs,  Jefuits 
bark,  falfapariglia,  jalap,  balfam  of  Peru,  hippecacuana,. 
cloths  of  divers  forts,  wine,  tobacco,  fnuff  of  Seville  and  Ha- 
vanna,  lead,  gun-barrels,  honey,   &c. 

Portugal — Brazil  fugars,  tobacco,  cocoa  of  Maringan, 
drugs,  hides,   &c. 

Venice — Books,  cordavans,  looking  glafies,  chryitals  and 
crlaffes  of  all  forts,  luftres,  coach  and  window  glaffes,  Padua 
cloths,  called  Venetian  fays,  for  the  confumption  of  the 
provinces,  fine  Verona  cloths,  equal  to  Englifh  fcarlet, 
ftockings,  caps  made  of  wool,  fine  hats  ufed  in  the  pro- 
vinces, wax  candles,  white  loaf  (ugar,  fine  linen,  medicinal 
and  Levant  drugs,  all  forts  oi  paints,  fublimate,  cinnabar, 
auickfflver,    turpentine,    dragon's  blood,   copper,    iron    of 

divers 


NAPLES.  Si 

divers    forts  of  the  manufactures  of  Germany  and  Brefcia, 
excellent  paper,  much  ufed  in  the  provinces. 

Genoa — American  goods  from  the  Spanifh  main  and 
the  Portuguefe  Ealt  Indies,  velvets,  iron  in  great  quantity, 
nails,  ordinary  hats,  wax  from  Tunis  and  the  African  coaft. 

Leghorn — All  forts  of  goods,  at  fecond  hand,  from  the 
Levant,  Barbary  wools,  linens  of  Egypt,  wax,  and  many  filk 
manufactures. 

Petersburg — Hides,  wax,  iron,  furs,  8cc. 

Sardinia — An  immenfe  quantity  of  tunny  fim,  and  white 
cheefe. 

Germany — Silefia  linens  of  all  forts,  white  and  painted, 
iron  of  divers  manufactures,  vitriol  of  Hungary,  chryllals  of 
Bohemia,  large  glaiTes  for  coaches  and  windows,  hats  and 
goods  of  the  new  Vienna  fabrick,  turpentine,  quickfilver, 
hardware,  manufactures  of  Ofnaburg  and  Nuremberg,  cop- 
per, tin  plates,  boards,  cloth,  &c. 

The  duties  in  general  upon  goods  imported  into  the  city 
of  Naples  amount  to  about  twenty-five  per  cent,  upon  the 
cu.ftomhoufe  eftimation,  paying  fo  much  per  ounce  ad  valo- 
rem :  which  ounce  is  regulated  at  fix  ducats  value.  Sdgars 
and  wax,  by  the  new  impofitions,  pay  forty  or  fifty  per 
cent,  upon  the  market  price.  The  duty  upon  fugar  pro- 
duces about  eighty  thoufand  ducats  annually. 


Ma  SECTION 


[     82     ] 


SECTION     VIII. 

March  1  TTAVING  received  an  invitation  to  be  prcfent  at 
*  the  opening  of  fome  lately  difcovered  rooms 

at  Stabia,  I  went  thither  with  a  party.  On  our  way  we 
vifited  Herculaneum  and  Pompeii  *.  We  then  traverfed  the 
rich  plain  that  lies  between  Vefuvius  and  the  Sorrentine 
branch  of  the  Apennines,  and  came  by  a  gentle  afcent  ta 
the  excavations.  Stabia  was  a  long  firing  of  country  houfes,  * 
rather  than  a  town  ;  for  it  had  been  deftroyed  by  Sylla, 
and  before  the  reign  of  Titus,  all  its  rebuilt  edifices  were 
overturned  by  an  earthquake.  In  the  cataftrophe  of  feventy- 
nine,  the  wind  blowing  furiouily  from  the  north,  brought 
the  afhes  of  Vefuvius  upon  it;  all  the  country  was  covered 
with  cinders  and  rapilli,  or  fmall  pumice-ftones,  many 
yards  deep.  Towns,  houfes,  and  trees,  were  buried,  and 
their  fituations  remained  marked  in  the  plain  by  hillocks. 
like  barrows.  Stabia,  though  fix  miles  from  the  mountain, 
was  overwhelmed  and  loft,  till  it  was  carnally  difcovered 
about  twenty-eight  years  ago.  The  earthquake  had  fo  da- 
maged the  buildings,  that  none  of  them  can  be  preferved, 
and  therefore  as  foon  as  every  thing  curious  is  taken  out, 

*  I  fhall  referve  for  the  fecond  volume  what  I  have  to  fay  concern- 
ing them. 

the 


COAST    OF    SORRENTO.  83 

the  pits  are  filled  up  again.     The  afhes   penetrated    into  all 
parts,  and  confumed  every  thing  that  was  combuftible. 

On  our  arrival,  the  workmen  began  to  break  into  the 
fubterraneous  rooms,  and,  as  the  foil  is  all  a  crumbling, 
cinder,  very  little  labour  was  requisite  to  clear  them.  When 
opened,  the  apartments  prefented  us  with  the  mattered 
walls,  daubed  rather  than  painted  with  gaudy  colours  in 
compartments,  and  fome  birds  and  animals  in  the  cornices, 
but  in  a  coarfe  ftyle,  as  indeed  are  all  the  paintings  of 
Stabia.  In  a  corner,  we  found  the  brafs  hinges  and  lock, 
of  a  trunk  ;  near  them,  part  of  the  contents,  viz.  ivory 
flutes  in  pieces,  fome  coins,  brafs  rings,  fcales,  fteel-yards, 
and  a  very  elegant  filver  ftatue  of  Bacchus,  about  two 
inches  high,  reprefented  with  a  crown  of  vine  leaves,, 
bufkins,  and  the  horn  of  plenty. 

The  brow  of  this  hill  affords  a  rich  and  varied  profpect 
towards  Vefuvius  and  the  gulf- 

The  company  returned  to  Naples;  but  I  remained  all 
night  at  Torre  della  Nunziata,  a  large  village  belonging  to 
the  princes  of  Valle  and  Dentici,  and  a  hofpital.  It  was  of 
little  note  while  the  high  road  from  Naples  pafled  between 
Vefuvius  and  Nola,  the  communication  by  land  along  the 
more  being  impeded  by  repeated  eruptions.  All  that  tract 
was  for  many  ages  one  dark  foreft,  fuccefii  vely  confumed 
by  fiery  torrents,  and  fpringing  up  again  upon  the  old 
cooled  lavas.  As  foon  as  a  road  was  opened  over  Hercu- 
laneum,  the  Torre  became  populous.     A  manufacture   of 

fire-arms 


84  COAST    OF    SORRENTO. 

fire-arms  was  eftablifhed  here  by  the  prefent  King  of 
Spain,  who  attempted  to  introduce  feveral  others  into  the 
kingdom  ;  but  every  branch  that  required  nicety,  patience, 
and  fine  touches,  failed :  that  of  arms  fucceeded  wonder- 
fully ;  and,  in  three  years,  the  German  artificers,  he  had 
fent  for  to  inftrucl:  his  fubjects,  returned  to  their  own 
country  :  for  their  pupils  were  become  as  fkilful  as  them- 
felves. 

Early  next  morning,  I  hired  a  fix- oared  barge,  and 
rowed  along  the  coaft.  We  pafTed  before  the  ifland  of 
Revigliano,  a  fine  object,  that  has  been  introduced  into 
many  pictures.  My  firft  flation  was  Caftelamare  di  Stabia, 
a  long  town  lying  at  the  bottom  of  the  bay,  flickered  to 
the  fouth  by  high  mountains,  that  come  fo  near  the  water 
edge  as  to  leave  only  a  very  narrow  flip  for  the  buildings, 
many  of  which  are  boldly  and  beautifully  placed  on  the 
lower  points  of  the  hills.  The  King  has  a  charming  villa 
above  the  city,  formerly  a  farm  of  the  Jefuits.  The  port 
is  fm all  and  entirely  artificial,  more  frequented  by  Latin 
fail-barks  than  fhips.  This  place  rofe  by  the  ruin  of  the 
inland  towns.  In  1654,  the  French,  under  the  Duke  of 
Guife,  took  it  by  florin,  and  meant  to  pufh  their  con- 
quells  from  hence  into  the  heart  of  the  kingdom.  Their 
hopes  were  foon  blafled  by  a  defeat  on  the  banks  of  the 
Sarno,  which  obliged  them  to  reimbark,  and  abandon  even 
Caftelamare,  but  not  before  they  had  flripped  it  of  every 
thing  valuable.     I  continued  my  cotirfe  wefhvard  under   a 

bold 


COAST    OF    SORRENTO.  I; 

bold  more  :  new  beauties  of  landfcape  opened  upon  me  at 
the  doubling  of  every  promontory.  The  iirft  change  of 
£cene  was  to  an  uninhabited  foreft,  where  white  cliffs  rife 
perpendicular  out  of  the  deep  blue  waters  :  behind  them, 
lofty  mountains  overgrown  with  wood.  Thefe  rocks  are 
calcarious,  and  fuinifh  Naples  with  lime.  The  ftones  are 
burnt  in  the  creeks,  and  the  fire  fupplied  with  faggots  cut 
in  the  hills,  and  flung  down  on  ropes.  Along  the  fhore 
are  many  ftrong  fulphureous  fprings. 

Vico  was  my  next  flage  :  a  little  city,  in  a  delightful 
pofition,  on  the  brow  of  a  hill,  backed  by  an  amphitheatre 
of  mountains.  The  ftrata  of  thefe  eminences  incline  con- 
trary ways  to  one  centrical  point,  as  if  there  had  origi- 
nally exifled  a  fimilar  mafs  in  the  centre,  torn  afunder  and 
(wallowed  up  by  one  of  thofe  mocks,  which  muft  have 
often  overturned  this  unliable  country.  Charles  the  Se- 
cond and  Joan  the  Firfl:  raifed  Vico  out  of  obicurity,  on. 
account  of  the  charms  they  found  in  its  fituation. 

On  doubling  the  next  projecting  rocks,  we  entered  the 
fpacious  bay  of  Sorrento,  three  miles  wide.  A  femicir- 
cular  chain  of  woody  mountains  inclofes  a  rich  and  beauti- 
ful plain,  rather  Hoping  towards  the  fea,  full  of  white 
buildings  peeping  out  of  the  groves.  This  hair- moon  ter- 
minates in  a  ftraight  line  to  the  fea,  by  a  bold  coaft  of 
black  perpendicular  rocks.  It  probably  formed  a  portion 
of  a  circle,  half  of  which  broke  off  and  funk  into  the 
waves.      This  I  believe  to  have  been  the  cafe,  and  that  the 

3  whole 


g$  COAST    OF    SORRENTO. 

whole  was  once  the  crater  of  a  volcano.     All  the  foil  of 
the  plain  is  cineritious,  and  its   rocks  a   ftrong   blue  lava, 
except  near  the  eaft  end,  where  they  are  of  a  fofter  piperino 
kind.     The  encircling  mountains  are  compofed  of  regular 
calcareous  layers,  that  do  not  join  or  intermix  in  the  lead 
with   the  others,   but   are   broken  off  abruptly   all   round, 
as  if  a  place  had  been  fcooped  out  for  the  reception  of  the 
heterogeneous  mafs,  riling  fuddenly  out  of  the  bofom  of 
the  earth  or  waters.     Many   of  thefe  limeftone  rocks  are 
twifted,  as  it  were,   into  ropes,   exactly   in  the  fame  man- 
ner   as   fome  Vetuvian   lavas  :   they   have   befides   fo  many 
peculiarities,   that  correfpond  with  thofe  of  the   productions 
of  burning  mountains,   that   were  it  not   directly  repugnant 
to  the   common    fyftems  of    philofophy,   which   decide  all 
calcareous  fubftances    to    be    a   fediment    of   the   ocean,    I 
fhould  be   tempted  to  believe,  that  fire  had  a  greater  fhare 
in  the  formation  of  thefe  rocks  than   is  generally  allowed. 
The    materials    of    the  lower    grounds   are   beyond    doubt 
volcanical ;  however,   I  am  confident  that,  as  yet,  we  are 
but  imperfectly   acquainted    with  the   powers  of  fire,  and 
the    metamorphofes  it  is    capable    of  producing.      As  we 
have  difcovered,   that   the  fumes  of  fulphur  and  vitriol  can 
change  hard   black  lava  into  foft  white  clay,  perhaps   we 
may  find   onr,   that  fome   other  operation  of  natural  chy- 
miftry  can  convert  fubftances  into  limeftone. 

I   landed  at  Sorrento,  a  city  placed  on  the  veiy  brink  of 
the  fteep  rocks  that  overhang  the  bay,  in  a  moll  enchant- 
ing 


COAST    OF    SORRENTO.  87 

ing  fituation.  It  contains  fifteen  thoufand  inhabitants, 
half  the  population  of  the  whole  plain.  The  ftreets  are 
narrow ;  but  this  is  no  inconvenience  in  a  warm  climate, 
where  carriages  are  not  ufed,  nor  any  communication  with 
the  metropolis  practicable  by  land.  Of  all  the  places  in 
the  kingdom,  this  is  bleft  with  the  moft  delightful  climate. 
It  was  renowned  for  it  in  ancient  times :  Silius  Italicus 
extols  its  foft  and  wholefome  zephyrs*.  At  prefent,  it 
enjoys  fhady  groves,  excellent  water,  fruit,  fidi,  milk, 
butter,  the  fined  veal  in  the  world,  good  wine,  and  al- 
mofr,  every  neceflary  of  life  at  an  eafy  rate.  Mountains 
fcreen  it  from  the  hot  autumnal  blafts.  The  temper  of 
the  inhabitants  is  faid  to  refemble  the  climate  in  mildnefs. 
A  [qw  infcriptions  and  refervoirs  of  water  are  all  the  rem- 
nants of  antiquity  it  can  mew.  It  derives  its  name  from 
the  residence  or  worfhip  of  the  Syrens  +.  Jn  this  bay,  the 
Prince  of  Salerno,  foil  to  Charles  the  Firft,  was,  in  1283, 
taken  prilbner  by  Lauria,  the  admiral  of  Peter  of  Aragon : 
a  naval  viclory  that  infured  the  pofleffion  of  Sicily  to  the 
conquerors.  Kcre  Torquatus  Taffo  drew  his  firft  breath 
in  1544:  a  bard  undoubtedly  intitled  to  rank  id  the 
foremoft  line  of  modern  poets,  notwithflanding  the  farcafm 
of  Boileaui',    who,     from     his    ignorance    of    the    Italian 

*  Zephyro  Surrentum  molle  falubri. 
■f  Surenetum. 

j  Le  clinquant  du  Tafle  a  tout  Tor  de  Virgile. 
Prefers  Taflb's  tinfel  to  Virgil's  gold. 

N  language, 


8S  COAST    OF    SORRENTO. 

language,  and  the  coldnefs  of  his  heart,  was  a  very  im- 
proper judge  of  the  flights  of  genius.  In  3558,  the 
Turks  facked  this  city,  and  carried  off  twelve  thoufand 
captives ;  but,  preferring  money  to  fuch  a  quantity  of 
•  flaves,  they  fent  to  Naples  to  afk  a  ranfom.  Diftruft,  con- 
firmation, or  infenfibility,  caufed  their  offer  to  be  re- 
jected, and  the  infidels  failed  away  with  their  prifoners.. 
Soon  after,  by  an  acT:  of  generofity  fcarce  to  be  paralleled 
in  any  hiftory,  the  remaining  Sorrentines  fold  their  lands 
and  goods,  and  redeemed  their  fellow-citizens.  Had  fuch 
an  effort  been  made  by  Greeks  or  Romans,  it  would  have 
been  a  common-place  example  for  fchool-boys,  and  every 
differtator,  ancient  and  modern,  would  have  enlarged  with 
enthufiafm  on  this  trait  of  heroifm ;  but  at  Sorrento  it  is 
fcarce  remembered,  and,  I  believe,  it  is  entirely  forgotten 
in  the  reft  of  the  kingdom. 

On  the  twenty-eighth,  I  continued  my  coafting  voyage 
to  Capo  di  Terra,  or  Puolo,  the  point  that  divides  the  bay 
of  Sorrento  from  that  of  Maffa*.  Here  are  the  ruins  of  a 
villa  mentioned  in  Statius's  Sylvae :  it  belonged  to  Pollius 
Frelix,  whofe  name  is  ftill  preferved  in  the  modern  ap- 
pellation. I  admired  the  exa&nefs  with  which  the  poet 
has  defcribed  the  fpot ;  for  however  altered  and  disfigured 
the  minuter   features   may    be,  the  great  outlines  of   the 

*  Eft  inter  notos  Syrenum  nomine  muros, 
Saxaque  Tyrrhene  templis  ornata  Minervse. 

place 


COAST    OF    SORRENTO.  8$ 

place  are  ftill  difcernible.  On  the  very  extremity  of  the 
Cape,  impending  over  the  fea,  (lands  a  row  of  vaulted 
chambers,  before  which  appear  the  veftiges  of  a  portico  *, 
or  hall.  Its  form  is  that  of  an  obtufe  angle.  Thefe  rooms 
commanded  a  double  view  :  one  of  Sorrento  and  Vefuvius ; 
the  f  other,  of  Naples  J,  Puzzoli,  and  Ifchia§,  Part  of 
the  painting  remains  upon  the  walls.  Behind  thefe  build- 
ings, the  promontory  narrows  into  an  ifthmus,  pierced  in 
the  middle  with  a  deep  round  bafon,  into  which  the  fea 
has  accefs  by  a  paflage  under  the  rocks.  As  the  waves 
have  no  force  left  when  they  enter  it,  and  its  opening  is 
furrounded  by  ruins,  this  was  no  doubt  the  fituation  of 
the  baths  || .  Three  arched  conduits  brought  frefh  water 
to  them  **  from  a  large  rcfervoir  at  the  foot  of  the  moun- 
tain ;  high  rocks,  covered  with  olive-trees,  defend  f  f  this 
place  from  the  boifterous  fcirocco,  and  boats  find  a  fafe 

*  Per  obliquas  erepit  porticus  arces 

Urbis  opus,  longoque  domat  faxa  afpera  dorfo, 
■f  Una  Diastis 

Parthenopen  directo  limite  ponti. 
J  Ingeric 

Celfa  Dicarchasi  fpeculatrix  villa  profundi. 
§  Hasc  videt  Inarimen,  ill i  Prochyta  afpera  paret. 
||  Gemina  teftudine  fnmant 

Balnea. 
**  E  terris  occurrit  dulcis  amaro 

Nympha  mari. 
f|  Monti  intervene  imum 

Littus  et  in  terras  fcopulis  pendentibus  exit. 

N  2  retreat 


00  COAST    OF    SORRENTO. 

retreat  in  a  circular  creek,  which  divides  the  Cape  into 
two  peninfulas*.  From  hence  I  failed  along  the  woody 
coaft  of  Mafia,  a  diocefe  without  a  town ;  for  all  the 
dwelling-houfes  are  difperfed  in  fmall  clufters  along  the 
verdant  declivity.  We  lay  upon  our  oars  a  few  hours  to 
take  fbme  refrefhment,  and  then  failed  to  Naples,  where  we 
arrived  by  moonlight.  The  evening  was  warm  and  mild, 
and  the  fea  fmooth  as  glafs  ;  the  lights  of  the  fim-markets 
reflected  on  its  furface,  formed  a  raoft  fplendid  illumination*  ■ 

*  Placido  lunata  receflu, 

Hinc  atque  hinc  curvas  prorumpunt  asquora  rupes— ■- 

Ponunt  hie  lafla  furorem 

iEquora. 

Nulloque  tumultu 

Stagna  modefta  jacent. 


JOURNEY 


(    9'     ) 


J     O   .  U     R      N      E      Y 


FRO  M 


NAPLES    to    TARANTO, 


SECTION      IX. 

ON  the  twelfth  of  April  1777,  I  fet  out  with 
S.  T.  G.  from  Naples  by  the  Porta  Capuana.  We 
rode  our  own  horfes,  but  had  a  chaife  to  carry  our  bag- 
gage and  ourfelves  occasionally.  A  broad  avenue  of 
poplars  renders  this  outlet  more  regular  than  any  other. 
On  the  left  hand  are  the  aqueducts  that  convey  water  to 
the  city,  and  fupply  feveral  fountains  erected  by  the 
Viceroys,  in  the  laft  century,  for  ornament  and  the  relief 
of  travellers.  Above  is  a  beautiful  ridge  of  woody  hills, 
called  11  Campo  di  Lautrec,  from  Odet  de  Foix,  Martcha! 
7  de 


92  JOURNEY    TO    TAR  ANT  O. 

de  Lautrec,  who,  in    1528,  at   the    head  of  the  French 
army,  invaded  the  kingdom  of  Naples,   fubdued  the  north- 
ern provinces,   and  drove   the  Imperialifts   into  the  capital. 
On  the  twenty-ninth  of  April,  he  pitched  his  camp  on  this 
eminence,  and  by  his   approach  threw  the  Neapolitans  into 
the  utmoft  confternation.      Their  terrors  redoubled  on  the 
failure  of  their  ufual  miracle,   the  liquefaction  of  the  blood 
of  St.   Januarius :   a  difappoiiitment,   in  their  opinion,  the 
certain  forerunner  of  fome  weighty  calamity.      The  horrors 
of  famine   foon    began  to  be  feverely   felt  in  fo  populous  a 
town,  and  the  difixefs  was  enhanced  by  the  enemy's  break- 
ing  down   the  aqueducts ;   but  what  was   intended  for  its 
ruin   proved     its     falvation,      and    the    contrivance    turned 
againtt,   the  befiegers  :    for  the   waters,   thus  diverted  from 
their   channel,  and   obftaucled  in   their   paflage,  ran   wafte 
over    the  low   grounds,    ftagnated  in  pools,   and,   through 
the  exceflive  heat   of  the  feafon,   corrupted.      The  putre- 
faction   was    accelerated    by    the   fermentation   of  a   great 
-quantity    of  corn,     which    Virticillo,     a    famous    outlaw, 
purpofely   threw  into  the  ditches   as  he  paiTed  along  with 
a   fupply  of  provifions  for  the  city.     From  the  malignant 
vapours    exhaled    by   thefe   putrid    fwamps,    a   peftilential 
difeafe  arofe,   which,   in  a  fhort  time,  deftroyed  the  greater!: 
part  of  the  French  army,  and,  on  the  fifteenth  of  Auguft, 
died  their  brave   commander.     His  remains  were  interred 
under    his    own   tent,   the   ficge  was  raifed,    moft    of  the 
French   that  furvived  the   contagion   were  taken  or  put  to 

5  the 


JOURNE7     TO     TARANTO,  93 

the   fword,  and    few   efcaped  to   carry  an  account  of  the 
cataftiophe  to  their  ovvrr  country. 

Y\  ere  it  becoming  a  rcafonablc  man  to  adopt  the  Neapo- 
litan idea  of  St.  Januarius's  blood  being  endowed  with   the 
gitt   of   prophecy,  one   might    fuppofe,    that   its    obftinate 
induration  had  not  in  view   the  mere   event  of  the  fiege, 
but  rather  pointed  to    a  cruel  difeafe,   which    made   its  firft 
appearance  in  our  hemifphere  at  that   period,   and  in  that 
camp.     It   is   faid,    that   this   tremendous    fcourge  of   de- 
bauchery was  flrft  imported  by  the  companions  of  Chrifto- 
pher  Columbus  from   the  Charibbee  iflands,  where  it  was 
an  aboriginal   malady  ;  and   that   women  infected  by  them 
were    designedly   fent   out  of  Naples    to   fpread  contagion 
among    the    French,     by   whom   the    infernal   poifon    was 
communicated  to   the  reft  of  Europe.      But  authors  differ 
in  their   opinions  concerning   the  introduction  of  this  dis- 
order :    fome  incline  to  give    it  an  eaftern    or  Egyptian, 
not  an  American  origin,   and  ground  their  notion  upon  the 
infeription  of  a  tomb  in  the  church  of  S.  Maria  del  Popolo 
at  Rome*.     This  monument   is  erected  to  the  memory   cf 
a    noble    Roman,    who    died    pejie    inguinarid   in    14.85, 
which   is    fix    years   before   Columbus's  return    from    the 
New    World.     The    difficulty   lies    in   proving  this    pel 
inguinaria  to   be  really  the  difeafe  in  queflion,  and  not  a 

*  Marco  Antonii  equitis  Romani  filio  ex  nobili  Albertonum  familia  cor- 
pore  animoque  infigni,  qui  annum  agens  xxx  pefte  inguinaria  interiit  an. 
falutis  Chriitiance  MCCCCLXXXV.  die  xxii  Julii  hsredes  B.  M,  P. 

plague 


94 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

plague  that  had  its  ulcer  in  the  groin,  as  others  have  theirs 
under  the  arm,  in  the  fide,  or  el fe where ;  for  it  is  an  ob- 
fervation  made  by  many  medical  praditioners  in  the  Levant, 
that  each  plague  throws  out  its  mortal  tumour  in  one  par- 
ticular part  of  the  body  upon  all  patients.  Jf  this  fcnti- 
ment  of  the  lues  coming  from  the  Baft,  were  incontroverti- 
ble, it  would  follow,  that  to  all  the  accumulated  horrors 
of  tyranny,  rapine,  and  murder,  exercifed  by  the  Europe- 
ans upon  the  innocent  Americans,  we  might  add  the  in- 
troduction of  a  fital  and  loathfome  difeafe,  which  com- 
pleted the  defolation  of  that  continent,  by  deftroying  the 
few  wretches  their  fword  had  fpared. 

On  the  declivity  ftands  the  church  of  Santa  Maria  del 
Pianto,  or  of  Tears,  erected  over  the  mouth  of  fome  deep 
excavations,  where  the  bodies  of  many  thoufand  perfons, 
carried  off  by  a  plague  in  1656,  were  brought  in.  carts 
from  Naples,  and  walled  up.  This  peftilence  far  ex- 
ceeded in  devaluation  that  of  1528  ;  for,  in  the  fpace  of 
fix  months,  it  difpatched  400,000  people  in  the  king- 
dom of  Naples,  although  the  provinces  of  farther  Cala- 
bria and  Otranto  efcaped  the  infection. 

An  avenue  of  cyprefles,  Sloping  up  the  hill,  gloomily 
points  out  the  Campo  Santo,  or  Cemetery  of  the  Hofpital 
for  Incurables.  It  ftands  loftily5  and  remote  from  all  ha- 
bitations of  the  living,  and  is  moft  admirably  contrived 
for  its  melancholy  purposes.  Divine  fervice  is  performed 
under  a  fpacious  portico  at  the  entrance,  and  a  high  wall 

inclofes 


JOURNEY     TOT  A  RANT  O.  9>- 

inclofes  a  flagged  court,  about  two  hundred  and  flxty  feet 
fquare.  Under  it  are  three  hundred  and  flxty-flve  very 
deep  vaults  hewn  in  the  rock,  one  of  which  is  in  its  tura 
opened  each  day  of  the  year,  to  receive  the  bodies  of  fuch 
as  died  the  preceding  evening  in  the  hofpital.  The  firft 
tenants  of  this  repofitory  were  the  wretches  who  periflied 
in  the  great  famine  in  1764.  The  tufa,  of  which  the 
rocks  of  all  thefe  hills  are  compofed,  has  a  mofl  powerful 
drying  quality,  and  foon  parches  up  the  corpfes  that  are 
consigned  to  its  bofom. 

At  the  diftance  of  one  mile  from  Naples,  we  pafled  by 
the  ruins  of  Poggio  Reale,  a  villa  built  by  Alphonfus  the 
Second,  while  Duke  of  Calabria.  He  caufed  to  be  painted 
in  the  apartments  the  principal  occurrences  of  his  father's 
reign,  and  took  great  delight  in  embellidiing  this  palace, 
which,  neverthelefs,  does  not  appear  to  have  been  pof- 
feffed  of  any  natural  beauties  worth  cherifhing.  It  was 
vilely  fituated  at  the  foot  of  the  hills,  on  the  very  edge 
of  the  marfhes  that  lie  between  Naples  and  Vefuvius.  The 
waters  of  the  Sebeto,  an  infigniflcant  brook,  dignified 
with  the  title  of  river,  make  thefe  lands  extremely  fruitful, 
and  proper  for  kitchen  -fluff;  but,  in  fummer,  aguifh  and 
dangerous  to  inhabit.  In  ancient  times  it  may  have  been 
more  considerable,  and  received  many  fupplies,  which  the 
eruptions  of  Vefuvius   have  dried  up  or  turned  off;   but  its 

O  flze 


96  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

fize  has  Ion?  been  very  trifling.      Boccaccio,   who  favv  it  in 
the  days   of  King  Robert,   pleafantly  ftiles  it  a  river, 

Quanta  r'icco  donor,  tanto  povero  cfacque. 
As  rich  as  it  is  in  fame,  fo  poor  is  it  in  water. 

We  foon  after  left  the  hilly  grounds  to  defcend  into  the 
immenfe  plains  of  Nola,  one  entire  grove  of  tall  elms  and 
poplars,  planted  in  rows  to  fupport  the  vines  growing  at 
their  feet,  and  ftretchinp-  their  branches  from  tree  to  tree 
in  beautiful  garlands.  Between  the  lines,  the  hufb.indman 
fows  corn  and  pulfe  without  any  fallow  ;  and,  to  prevent 
the  land  from  being  exhaufted,  raifes  early  crops  of  lupins 
and  beans,  which  he  hoes  up  before  they  fru&ify,  and 
buries  for  manure.  The  harrowing  and  rolling  is  per- 
formed by  oxen.  This  fcene  for  a  while  aftoniilies  and 
fills  the  eye  ;  but,  from  the  extent  of  the  plantation,  the 
famenefs  of  objects,  and  the  total  exclufion  of  all  profpecT, 
it  loon  becomes  unpleafant  and  fatiguing.  The  ioil  is  a 
iandy  volcanic  loam,  in  a  high  degree  rich  and  vegetative. 
The  clofe  fhade  of  fo  much  wood  preferves  it  in  a  due 
ftate  of  moifcure,  without  which  its  fertility  would  be 
greatly  diminifhed  by  the  heat  of  the  climate;  but  this 
{hade  gives  the  whole  country  a  difagreeable  damp  fmelL 

Near    a    village    called    Cinema,    we  found    mafons   at 
work    in   a  quarry   of  dark- blue  lava,   fimilar  to  the  pave- 

tent  of  Naples.     This  place  is  exactly  fituated  fo  as    to 

have 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  97 

have  Monte  Somraa  in  a  line  between  it  and  the  cone  of 
Vefuvius,  of  which  nothing  appears  but  the  column  of 
fmoke :  a  clear  proof,  that  thefe  layers  of  lava  cannot 
have  run  out  of  the  prefent  crater,  as  the  height  of  the 
ridge  of  Somma  would  prevent  any  matter  from  being 
poured  over  it,  unlefs  the  actual  volcano  firft  filled  up  and 
levelled  to  the  brim  the  intermediate  valley,  called  Atrio 
del  Cavallo.  Every  naturalift,  that  is  not  blinded  by  the 
prejudices  of  fome  fyftem  formed  in  his  clofet,  and  im- 
plicitly adhered  to  in  all  his  refearches,  muft  allow,  that 
it  is  impoflible  to  account  for  thefe  quarries,  without  fup- 
pofing  Somma  to  have  been,  in  former  ages,  one  of  the 
lides  of  a  much  larger  volcano  than  the  prefent  ignivomous 
mountain ;  and  that,  upon  the  falling  in  of  that  enormous 
mafsj  fubfequent  eruptions  mud:,  out  of  one  of  the  fides, 
have  heaved  up  Vefuvius  as  we  now  behold  it. 


SECTION     X. 

TTir  E  turned  off  to  the  left  to  fee  Nola,  a  city  that 
affords  little  fcope  for  obfervation,  as  the  ruins  of 
its  ancient  edifices  are  almoft  obliterated.  Nothing  re- 
mains  of  the  two  amphitheatres  but  fome  brick  walls,  the 
marble  cafing  having  been  taken  away  by  an  Earl  of  Nola 
to  build  his  palace. 

Some  anecdotes  render  its  hiftory  interefting.     Aucmftus 
died   here  at  the  age  of  feventy-five  years,  faid    to   have 

O   2  been 


98.  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO, 

been  poifoned  in  a  difh  of  figs  by  Livia,  upon  his  betray- 
ing a  return  of  tendernefs  towards  his  own  family ;  but,- 
methinks,  old  age  and  infirmities  were  fufficient  caufes 
for  the  death  of  a  man  worn  out  with  the  fatigue  of  a  long 
reign  over  a  nation  of  conquerors,  whom  his  cruelty  and 
policy  had  reduced,  from  the  haughtieft  of  republicans, 
to  the  mofr.  abject  ilaves  that  ever  crouched  beneath  the 
iron  rod  of  defpotifm.  His  faithful  friend  and  fortunate 
general,  Marcus  Agrippa,  was  furprifed  by  death  a  few 
years  before  him  in  the  fame  place. 

Saint  Paulinus,  a  native  of  Bourdeaux,  died  Bilhop  of 
Nola  in  431.  He  was  an  ingenious  poet,  and  had  been 
Conful.  He  is  faid  to  have  been  the  inventor  of  bells  by 
the  Nolans,  who  arrogate  to  themfelves  the  merit  of 
having  furnimed  fociety  with  this  ufeful  inflrument  ;  but  I 
rather  fuppofe  him  to  have  been  the  firft  who  introduced 
them  into  churches,  and  hung  them  up  in  fteeples,  for 
the  purpofe  of  fummoning  the  faithful  to  prayers.  Before 
his  time,  Chriftians  made  ufe  of  wooden  rattles,  facra 
ligna,  to  call  the  congregation  together,  no  bells  being 
allowed  by  government  to  a  profcribed  feci.  The  ancients 
had  bells  both  for  prophane  and  facred  fervice.  Poiybius 
mentions  them,  and  we  learn  by  a  tale  in  Strabo,  that 
market-time  was  announced  by  them  *. 

Pliny 

*  He  relates,  that  at  Jafficum,  amufician,  who  had  drawn  a  great  crowd 
of  auditors  about  him,  was  iudaenly  delated  by  them  all,  except  one  man, 

who 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  99 

Pliny  allures  us,  that  the  tomb  of  Porfena,  Kino;  of 
Tufcany,  was  hung  round  with  bells,  and  the  Lebetes  of 
the  temple  of  Dodona  were  certainly  a  fpecies  of  them. 
The  hour  of  bathing  was  made  known  at  Rome  by  the 
found  of  a  bell  -3  the  night  watchman  carried  one,  and  it 
ferved  to  call  up  the  fervants  in  great  houfes.  Sheep  had 
them  tied  about  their  necks  to  frighten  away  wolves,  or 
rather  by  way  of  amulet.  In  our  days,  this  cuftom,  like 
many  other  ethnic  ones,  ferves  as  a  wild  ftock  to  graft  a 
devout  ceremony  upon.  Bells  are  now  placed  under  the 
protection  of  St.  Anthony  and  others,  blefTed  and  flung 
round  the  necks  of  cattle  and  fheep,  to  preferve  them  from 
epidemical  diforders.  Shepherds  alfo  think  the  found 
pleafes'the  bead,  and  makes  it  eat  its  meat  with  more 
cheerfulnefs  and  benefit ;  at  leaf!:,  this  facilitates  the  find- 
ing of  thofe  who  have  ftrayed  from  their  pafture. 

We  are  told  by  Lucian,  that  the  priefts  of  the  Syrian 
goddefs  had  beds,  which  they  tinkled  by  way  of  awaking 
the  charity  of  bigots.  I  have  feen  many  counterparts  of 
thefe  beggars  in  Italy,  hermits  and  mendicant  friars,  who 
warn  you  with  a  bell,  that  they  are  about  to  make  a  de- 
mand upon  your  purfe. 

who  was  nther  hard  of  hearing.  The  performer  paid  him  a  compliment 
xipon  his  cafre  for  harmony,  which  detained  him  after  the  foiind  of  the  bells 
had  caufed  all  the  reft  of  the  audit  ry  to  41m  the  place.  "  What  (fays  the 
"  deat  man)  has  the  bell  rung  ?  then  the  nth-market  is  open,  and  I  mull 
"  run  away  too." 

Zonaras 


T^  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

Zonaras  writes,  that  criminals  going  to  execution  had  a 
bell  tied  to  them,  to  give  notice  to  all  paiTengers,  that  no 
one  might  unawares  crofs  their  v/ay,  and  by  the  accidental 
touching  of  them  become  unclean.  This  fuperftition  may 
be  the  real  origin  of  the  cuftom  in  England  of  parifh  bells 
ringing  while  a  malefactor  is  on  his  way  to  the  gallows ; 
though  it  is  generally  fuppofed  to  be  meant  as  a  fignal  to 
all  hearers,  admonifhing  them  to  pray  for  the  pafling 
foul.  Moft  of  our  religious  practices  date  higher  than  we 
are  willing  to  allow  ;  and,  at  all  events,  I  cannot  be  blamed 
for  hazarding  an  opinion,  which,  by  mewing  the  cuftom 
to  be  of  heathenifh  extraction,  tends  in  fome  degree  to 
relieve  many  tender  confciences,  who  daily  lament,  that 
fo  many  relicks  of  popery  are  fuffered  to  fubfift  in  this  pro- 
teftant  country. 

According  to  Suetonius,  Auguftus  having  built,  on  the 
edge  of  the  Capitoline  hill,  a  temple  to  Jupiter  the 
Ihunderer^  where  he  was  remarkably  conflant  in  his  de- 
votions, dreamt  that  the  Capitoline  Jupiter  appeared  to  him, 
and  chid  him  for  debauching  all  his  votaries  from  him  ;  and 
that  he  had  anfwered  the  god  by  declaring,  He  had  placed 
the  Thunderer  fo  near  only  by  way  of  porter.  In  order  to 
make  good  the  afiertion,  the  fuperftitious  Emperor  fixed 
bells  under  the  roof  of  the  new  temple,  within  reach  of 
the  door.     We  may  infer  from  hence,  that  Grangers  rang 

for 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  ioj 

for  admittance  at  the  gates  of  grandees  in  thofe  days,  juft 
as  they  do  in  ours*. 

Giordano  Bruni,  born  at  Nola  in  the  Sixteenth  century, 
made  a  great  noiie  in  the  theological  world,  by  means  of 
a  fmall  book,  mentioned  with  contempt  by  the  Spectator}, 
who,  in  his  389th  number,  gives  an  account  or  ic.  This 
pamphlet,  under  the  title  of  Spauio  uella  befta  trionjante, 
treats  all  religions  tqually  as  human  inventions;  1;  ughs  at 
miracles  and  revelations  as  fo  many  impoflures  re  acred. 
milchitvous  by  the  arts  of  an  inttrefled  prieithood  :  it  de- 
clares the  plain  law  of  nature  to  be  the  only  rule  of  life 
worthy  to  be  followed  by  a  being  endued  with  reaion  ;  be- 
fides  many  other  opinions,  which  the  whole  church  of 
Chrifl;  holds  in  utter  abhorrence,  and  unanimoufly  anathema? 
tizes.  Bruni  refided  long  at. the  court  of  Queen  Elizabeth,, 
under  the  protection  of  feveral  great  men  ;  but  venturing 
back  to  Italy  in  1600,  was  fuzed  by  the  inquifition,  and 
burnt  at  Venice. 

It  is  impoflible  to  afcertain  who  were  the  firn1  people 
that  fettled  at  Nola ;  but  its  coins  prove  it  to  have  been  at 

*  Bells  appear  to  have  derived  their  Latin  appellations  of  Nola  and 
Campana  from  this  city  and  its  province,  either  on  account  of  its- mines  of 
copper  (if  any  fuch  there  were),  the  celebrity  of  its  founderies,  or  the  e.:- 
pertnefs  of  its  bell -carters.  Qnintilian  is  the  firil  author  that  makes  ule  of 
the  term  Nola  ;  before  him,  Tint*  as   the  e-mmon  name;  and   in 

St.  Jerome's  time  was  the  firft  appearance  of  the  word  I  ampana. 

The  modern  Nolans  can  boaft  of  little  fkill  in  the  founding  art;  and,  in- 
deed, a  good  ring  of  bells  is  a  thing  unthcught  of  in  the  kingdom  :  it  does 
not  enter  the  head  of  a  Neapolitan,  that  any  (kill  can  be  -  J  in  a  bell- 

ringer. 

one 


to3  JOURNEY    TO    TAR  ANT  O. 

one  time  inhabited  by  Greeks.      They  differ  in  nothing  but 
the  legend  from  thofe  of  ancient  Naples*. 

No!a  feems  to  have  been  a  city  of  confequence  under 
the  firft.  Emperors,  and  to  have  had  a  navigable  cut  that 
communicated  with  the  Sarno,  or  the  fea.  What  makes 
this  idea  lefs  paradoxical  is,  that  anchors,  rings,  and  other 
appurtenances  of  navigation  have  been  dug  up  near  the 
town.  Vefuvius  has  overwhelmed  fo  many  more  con- 
siderable objects,  that  it  ought  not  to  excite  much 
wonder,  if,  at  this  day,  all  traces  are  loft  of  any  fuch 
canal ;  but,  perhap-,  thefe  fragments  of  fhipping  ought 
to  be  afcribed  to  thofe  very  remote  ages,  in- which  the  fea 
flowed  up  to  the  foot  of  the  Apennine,  and  fpread  itfelf 
over  the  whole  intermediate  plain. 

This  lordfhip  was  included  in  the  grants  made  by 
Charles  or  Anjou  to  Guy  +  de  Montfort,  the  companion  of 
his  vi&ories,  and  one  of  the  fons  of  our  famous  Earl  of 
Leicefter.  His  only  daughter  married  Raymond  Orfino, 
the   firft    of  that   illuftrious  Roman  family  that   fettled   in 

*  Numm.  Nol. — i.  Caput  Dianas. — Minotaurus  gradiens  victoria  fuper- 
volitante  NHAArxiN.     Arg.     Ex  Cimel.  meo. 

2.  Caput  Palladis  galeatum  cum  lauro  et  noctua. — Minotaurus  fub.  i£.— 
NUAAIiiN— Mr. 

•f-  This  Guy  was  the  man,  who,  in  revenge  of  his  father's  death,  mur- 
dered Henry,  ion  of  the  King  of  the  Romans,  in  the  church  of  Viterbo. 
Alter  a  fliort  retreat  from  court,  and  a  mock  penance,  he  was  reftored  to 
favour  by  Charles,  whole  character  luffered  much  in  the  opinion  of  all  o-0od 
men  for  this  partiality  to  an  aflafiin.  Guy  was  at  laft  taken  prifoner  in  a 
fea- fight  by  the  Aragoncfe,  and  call  into  a  dungeon,  where  he  died. 

2  the 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  103 

the  kingdom  of  Naples,  where  his  pofterity  afterwards 
became  Princes  of  Taranto  and  Salerno,  and  ftill  remain 
Dukes  of  Gravina.  Orfo  Orfini,  Earl  of  Nola,  made  a 
great  figure  in  the  wars  between  the  Kings  of  the  Arago- 
nian  line  and  their  Barons.  His  branch  failed  in  1533; 
and  fince  that  time  this  honour  has  remained  veiled  in  the 
crown. 


SECTION     XI. 

XKT  E  joined  the  road  again  at  a  village  belonging  to  the 
Albertini.  It  is  called  Cimitile,  by  corruption  from 
Ccemeterium,  the  real  name,  which  it  received  from  a 
great  number  of  martyrs  buried  here  in  the  funx-ring 
ages  of  Chriftianity.  Here  begins  the  road  through  the 
mountains  into  Puglia,  opened  in  1593,  and  repaired  by 
the  prefent  King  of  Spain.  The  late  learned  Canon  Maz- 
zocchi  compofed  elaborate  Latin  epigraphes  in  honour  of 
the  undertaking,  which  are  placed  upon  fcreens  or  pieces 
of  wall  ornamented  in  a  very  bad  tafte. 

We  now  entered  a  pleafant  valley  that  winds  up  between 
hills  into  the  very  bofom  of  the  Apennines.  Thefe  hills 
advance  into  the  plain  like  bold  promontories,  and  feem 
to  indicate  that,  in  fome  remote  centurys  they  were  warned 
by  the  waves  of  the  fea,  till  the  foil  at  their  foot  was  Co 
raifed  by   the  increafe  oC  marine  fubfidences,  the  workings 

P  of 


io|.  JOURNEY    TO    T  A  RANT  0. 

of  underground  fires,  or  the  accumulation  of  cinders  vo- 
mited out  of  Vefuvius,  as  at  length  to  confine  the  waters 
to  the  bounds  of  the  prefent  gult.  Cinerated  fubftances 
compofe  the  interior  ftrata  of  thefe  eminences  ;  but  it  is  a 
debateable  point,  whether  they  were  call:  hither  in  mowers 
by  the  neighbouring  volcano,  or  thrown  up  by  particular 
eruptions  of  their  own.  The  furface  is  covered  with  thick 
woods  of  cheftnut- trees,  a  plant  I  have  obferved  to  delight 
in  this  fort  of  foil :  it  grows  luxuriantly  on  Monte  Somma, 
the  heights  of  the  Camaldoli  near  Naples,  the  Pyrenees 
near  medicinal  fprings,  and,  in  general,  in  the  neighbour- 
hood of  fubterraneous  fires ;  not  to  mention  the  gigantic 
trees  that  for  ages  have  darkened  the  fides  of  Etna. 

On  the  fkirts  of  the  plain  appear  the  caftle  and  town  of 
Avella,  in  a  delightful  fituation,  commanding  a  view  as 
far  as  Naples.  They  gave  name  to  a  family  defcended 
from  the  ancient  Dukes  of  Auflria.  Rinaldo  Avella  com- 
manded the  army  of  Charles  the  Second  in  Sicily,  and 
gained  great  honour  by  his  gallant  defence  of  Augufta. 
In  the  reign  of  Joan  the  Firft,  the  heirefs  of  the  Avelli 
married  into  the  houfe  of  Baux,  or  Del  Balzo  *.  By  a 
grant   of  Ferdinand  the  Firfr,  Avella  went  to  Orfo  Orfini, 

then 

*  It  paffed  for  being  a  branch  of  the  Vifigothic  Balti,  a  family  that  boafted 
of  having  given  a  long  line  of  monarchs  to  the  Weltern  Goths,  with  the 
formidable  name  of  Alaric  at  the  head  of  the  lift.  The  Ue  Baux  accompanied 
Charles  the  Firft  from  Provence,  where  they  had  once  poficflcd  an  inde- 
pendent fovereignty.     From  his  liberal  hand  they  received  ample  infeudations 

of 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  105 

then  pafled  through  the  Spinelli  and  Cataneo  lines,  and 
now  gives  the   title  of  Prince  to  Doria  of  Genoa. 

Not  far  from  hence  are  the  ruins  of  Abella,  a  place, 
as  Virgil  informs  us,  celebrated  for  the  quality  of  its 
apples :   - 

Et  quos  maliferce  defpedant  msenia  Abellse  *. 

Some  editions  read  mellifercc.  Either  reading  is  character- 
iftical ;  for  the  environs  are  ftill  as  remarkable  for  the 
abundance  and  perfedion  of  their  fruit,  as  for  the  flavour 
of  their  honey.  The  ancient  walls  remain  in  many  places, 
and  inclofe  a  circuit  of  near  three  miles.  In  the  middle 
are  the  fragments  of  an  amphitheatre,  with  fome  dens  and 
fubftrudtions. 

At  a  large  village,  called  Cardinale,  we  came  to  the 
head  of  the  valley,  and  began  to  climb  up  a  very  lofty 
ridge  ;  the  afcent  eafy,  and  the  road  good,  overhuno-  with 
fine  woods  that  ftretch  from  the  top  of  the  mountain  to 
the  bottom,  now  and  then  leaving  openings  for  bold  rugged 
cliffs  to  rife  up  in  fhaggy  horror  along  the  fummit  1  hefe 
mountains  are  rendered  famous  in  Neapolitan  hiftory  by 
the  adventurous  journey  of  Manfred,  who,  after  making 
his    efcape    from    the    Pope,     wandered   over   thefe    rocky 

of  the  conquered  country ;  but  marriage  proved  a  fource  of  much  greater 
riches,  and  enabled  them  to  vie  in  wealth,  rank,  and  power,  with  the  San- 
feverini,  Marfans,  and  Orfini.  Their  race  ended  with  the  Earl  of  Caftro 
in  Charles  the  Fifth's  reign. 

*  "  And  thofe  whom  the  walls  of  apple-bearing  Abella  look  down  upon." 

P  2  wilderneiTes, 


106  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

wilderneffes,  in  order  to  penetrate  into  Puglia,  where   he 
expected   to  meet  with   partifans;  and  by   the  ftill   more 
hazardous  paffage   of  Rene  of  Anjou,  who,  in   the  middle 
of  winter,    in    the   darkeft  night,  travelled    through   deep 
fnows  and  pathlefs  forefts,  to  avoid  being  flopped    in   his 
way   to  Abruzzo,    where    he  was    obliged    to   make   his 
appearance  in  perfon,  to  roufe  Anthony  Caldora,  his  mod 
powerful  adherent,  from  a  fatal  political  lethargy.      Rene 
was  the  father  of   Margaret,   wife  of  our  Henry  the  Sixth. 
He   was   one  of  the    mod    amiable   of  men  ;   he  not  only 
patronized    learning  in  others,  but  cultivated  letters  him- 
felf,  with  no  contemptible  fuccefs   for  the  times  he  lived  in, 
when    ignorance    and    barbarifm    ftill   reigned    in    France, 
though  Petrarch  and  Boccaccio   had  already  carried  Italian 
literature  to  a  wonderful  degree  of  perfection.      Rene  ftrug- 
gled  long  with  Alphonfus  of  Aragon   before  he  gave   up 
the  conteft  ;  and,  when  deprived    of  every  means  of  fup- 
porting    the  war,  ftill  kept   a    large  party  together   by  no 
other    tye   than    the    veneration  and   love  with  which   his 
affability,  courage,  and  noble  fpirit,  had    infpired    all   that 
approached  his  perfon. 

Montforte,  a  village  with  a  ruinous  tower,  wildly  fitu- 
ated  on  the  point  of  a  rock,  commands  the  pafs,  and  an 
extenftve  view  into  the  heart  of  the  Principato  Ultra. 
This  infignificant  place,  from  the  lingular  advantages  of 
its  pofition,  has  more  than  once  flopped  whole  armies. 
Charles   the    Firft   beftowed  it   on  the    Montforts,     more 

on 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  107 

on   account  of  a  fimilarity  of  name,    than    the  value  of 
the  fief. 

The  defcent  on  the  eaftern  fide  is  fhorter  than  that  into 
Terra  di  Lavoro,  as  the  plains  of  the  latter  lie  much  below 
the  level  of  the  valley  we  were  entering.  The  landfcape- 
before  us  was  extremely  beautiful,  being  embellifhed  with 
great  variety  of  culture,  enlivened  by  the  whitenefs  of  the 
houfes,  and  the  waters  of  the  Sabato,  a  clear  ftream,  that 
winds  its  way  through  woods  and  orchards ;  dark  folemn 
mountains  overfhadow  it  on  every  fide,  except  where  a 
large  opening  lets  in  a  view  of  the  diftant  hills,  and  of  the 
pafTage  to  the  Adriatic. 

The  Sabato  takes  its  rife,  at  no  great  diftance  up  the 
vale,  from  numberlefs  fprings  bubbling  up  through  a  bed 
of  pebbles,  and  running  together  into  a  pool  full  of  trout. 
The  fcenery  round  the  pond,  and  down  the  courfe  of  this 
pleafant  rivulet,  is  exceedingly  romantic,  as  the  wild  beau- 
ties of  nature  melt  gradually  into  the  more  regular  features 
of  art  and  cultivation. 

An  avenue,  near  a  mile  in  length,  conducted  us  to  the 
gates  of  Avellino.  The  trees  are  poplars,  remarkable  for 
their  height,  bulk,  and  clofenefs  of  foliage. 


SECTION. 


kol  JOURNEY    TO    TAR  ANT  O. 


SECTION     XII. 

^"p  H  E  prefent  city  of  Avellino  mod  probably  owes  its 
foundation  to  the  Lombards.  The  firft  of  its  lords 
that  I  find  mentioned  in  hiftory  is  Ranulph,  who  floti- 
ridied  in  the  twelfth  century,  was  a  baron  of  mighty 
power,  and  brother-in-law  to  King  Roger.  This  alliance 
did  not  prevent  his  heading  a  party  againft  that  monarch, 
whofe  forces  he  defeated  in  feveral  encounters :  had  not 
death  put  a  Hop  to  his  progrefs,  he  would  undoubtedly 
have  ftripped  the  King  of  many  rich  provinces,  and  formed 
to  himfelf  an  independent  ftate,  as  the  Pope  and  the  Em- 
peror had  already  granted  him  inveftiture  of  the  Dutchy 
of  Puglia.  Roger  dell'  Aquila  was  Earl  of  Avellino  in 
1 1 60.  It  was  granted  by  Charles  the  Firfr.  to  Simon  de 
Montfort ;  but  he  being  killed  in  a  duel  by  Fulk  RufTo, 
the  honour  returned  to  the  crown. 

The  family  of  Baux  was  afterwards  poflefied  of  it. 
The  Filangeri  had  it  next  by  a  donation  from  Charles  the 
Third  ;  and  their  heirefs  having  married  Sergianni  Carac- 
ciolo,  the  famous  favourite  of  Joan  the  Second,  the  eflate 
came  into  the  family  of  Caracciolo,  in  which  it  remains  to 
this  day  with  the  title  of  Prince.  However,  it  appears  to 
have   been  forfeited,    as  Marino   Caracciolo   purchafed    it 

long 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  ic9 

long  after.     It  is   not   clear  whence  the   Caraccioli  came, 
nor    can    much  confidence    be  placed  in   the  ftories   pro- 
mulgated by   fome  authors,   who  make   them   out    to    be 
descendants  of  the  ancient  Greeks,   Romans,  or  Goths.      A 
learned  friend  of  mine  is    of  opinion,   that  they  came   firft 
out  of  Germany  with  Frederick  or   Henry,  and   thefe   are 
his  reafons;   They  are  never  mentioned  in  any  public  tranf- 
a&jon  before  the  time  of  the  Swabian  princes.      An  ancient 
chronicle  fays   exprefsly,    that  the   Emperor  Frederick   the 
Second  never  entrufted  the  command  of  his  armies   or  fort- 
relies  to  any   but  Germans  or  Saracens ;   and   in  the   next 
page  fpeaks  of   a  Caracfoh  as  leader  of  a    divifion   of  the 
Imperial  forces.      Matthew  Spinelli   of  Giovenazzo,  a  co« 
temporary   writer,   furnifhes   a    ftill  ftronger   proof,   by   af- 
furing    us,    that     Peter    Pignatelli    rendered    himfelf    very  ■ 
odious   to  many  families,  particularly  to  the  Caraccioli,   by 
advifmg  Charles  of  Anjou,   on   the  approach  of  Conradine, 
to  banifh  all  the  nobles  of  German   extraction,,    as   being 
men  of  doubtful  loyalty.     The  foundation  of  their  grandeur 
was  laid  by  the  unfhaken  fidelity  of  John  Caracciolo,  who, 
being  btdeged  by  rebels   in  the  caflle   of  Ifchia,   of  which 
he  had  been  appointed  governor  by  the  Emperor  Frederick, 
chofe    rather    to    periili    in   the   flames   that  confumed  the 
fortrefs,   than  furrender  his  truft.     His  mafter  was   not  in— 
fenfible   to  fuch  a  proof  of  attachment,   but  exprefled  the 
warmed  fentiments  of  gratitude  for  his  memory  ;  and  con- 
ferred luch  honours  and  riches  on  his  fons,  as   raifed   them 

2  tO 


110 


JOURNEY    TO    TAR  ANT  O. 

to  great  confequence  in  the  ftate.  The  family  has  ever 
fince  been  much  confidered  by  its  fovereigns ;  and  the 
branches  fent  off  from  the  main  ftock  have  become  as 
wealthy  and  powerful  as  itfelf,  and  are  at  this  day  upon  a 
par  with  the  nobleft  and  richeft  houfes  in  the  kingdom. 
Five  of  thefe  branches  are  proprietors  of  a  very  fingular 
Bank,  called  //  Monte  Ciarletto,  which  fecures  a  noble 
portion  to  their  daughters,  and  of  late  to  their  younger 
fons.  The  ftory  of  its  foundation  is  as  follows  : — Charles 
Caracciolo  had  an  only  daughter,  whom  he  was  determined 
to  marry  to  one  of  his  kinfmen,  that  his  rich  inheritance 
might  remain  in  the  family.  This  match  was  contrary 
to  the  inclinations  of  the  young  lady,  who  pofitively  re- 
fufed  to  acquiefce  in  it.  Her  enraged  father  {hut  her  up 
in  a  convent,  where  me  took  the  veil  by  compulfion  ;  but 
foon  after,  in  a  fit  of  defpair,  put  an  end  to  her  exiftence. 
Charles,  diftracled  with  remorfe  and  grief,  did  not  long 
iurvive  the  child  he  had  ufed  fo  cruelly  ;  and  by  way  of 
atonement  determined,  if  poffible,  to  prevent  any  Carac- 
ciola  from  becoming  a  nun,  at  leaft  from  a  want  of  for- 
tune :  he  therefore  eftablifhed  a  fund  to  accumulate  for 
them.  When  any  daughter  of  the  family  marries,  me  re- 
ceives the  inter-efts  and  favings  accruing  from  the  bank 
fince  the  lafl:  perfon  was  endowed.  It  never  fns  been 
more  than  an  hundred  thoufand  ducats  (^18,^50).  A 
change  has  lately  taken  place,  through  the  addrefs  and 
management  of  a  lady  married  to  one  of  thefe  Caraccioli. 
4  The 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  in 

The  marriage  portion  of  the  women  is  limited  to  70^000 
ducats,  and  the  remainder  of  the  produce  is  to  be  appropri- 
ated to  the  education  and  maintenance  of  the  younger  fons. 
The  director  of  this  Bank  has  a  houfe,  table,  and  equi- 
page, provided  for  him.  Several  fimilar  funds  have  been 
eftabiifhed  by  aflbciated  families,  in  imitation  of  the  bank 
of  the  Ciarktto. 

Avellino  is  a  confiderable  city,  extending  a  mile  in 
length  down  the  declivity  of  a  hill,  with  ugly  ftreets,  but 
tolerable  houfes.  The  churches  have  nothing  to  recom- 
mend them,  being  crowded  with  monftrous  ornaments  in 
a  barbarous  flyle,  which  the  Neapolitans  feem  to  have 
borrowed  from  the  Spaniards.  The  cathedral  is  a  poor 
building,  in  a  wretched  fituation,  with  little  to  attract  the 
eye,  except  fome  uncouth  Latin  didichs,  and  fhapelefs 
Gothic  fculpture.  The  good  people  of  this  town  need  not 
run  to  Naples  to  fee  the  blood  of  St.  Januarius ;  for  they 
have  a  ftatue  of  St.  Laurence,  with  a  phial  of  his  blood, 
which  for  eight  days,  in  Auguft,  entertains  them  with  a 
fimilar  miraculous  liquefaction.  Their  only  edifice  of 
note  is  a  public  granary,  of  the  Composite  order,  adorned 
with  antique  flatues,  and  a  very  elegant  bronze  one  of 
Charles  the  Second,  King  of  Spain,  while  a  boy,  can:  by 
Cavalier  Cofimo. 

The  number  of  inhabitants  amounts  to  eight  thoufand, 
fome  fay  ten  thoufand.  The  Bifhop's  revenue  is  about 
fix   thoufand   ducats   (£1,125)    a    vear«     The   rnagiftracy 

Q  confifls 


1J2  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO, 

confifts  of  a  Syndic  and  four  Eletti,  all  annual ;  which 
offices  are  engrofled  by  .a  certain  number  of  families  of  fome 
diftinclion,  that  neither  intermarry  nor  aflbciate  with  the 
reft  of  the  burghers. 

The  Prince  has  eftates  here  to  the  yearly  value  of  twenty 
thoufand  ducats  (£35750),  of  which  two  thoufand  arife 
from  duties  on  the  dye  of  cloth,  which  is  made  of  various 
qualities  and  colours,  but  chiefly  blue.  The  flnefl:  fells 
for  thirty  carlini  a  canna,  and  pays  twenty-fix  grana  duty 
of  entrance  into  Naples.  This  tax  is  a  piece  of  blundering 
management,  but  too  common  in  the  kingdom  ;  the  ofF- 
fpring  of  fhort-fighted  rapacity,  foftered  by  government  at. 
the  expence  of  all  home-trade,  and  to  the  difcouragement 
of  every  fpecies  of  induftry.  Many  wealthy  merchants 
have  a  concern  in  this  cloth  bufmefs,  fome  with  a  capital 
of  eighty  thoufand  ducats  (£15,000).      The  poor  women, 

who  fpin  the  wool,  muft  work  very   hard   to   earn  above 

four  grana  a  day. 

The   fecond  article    of  trade  is   maccaroni  and  paftc  of 

many   kinds,  which,   being  of  an  excellent  quality,  are  in 

high  repute  all  over  the  country.      Wooden  chairs  are  alfo 

made  and  fold  here  in  great  quantities. 

Avellino    abounds    with    provifions  of  every   fort ;   cr.ch 

ftreet  is    fupplied   with  wholefome  water ;   the  wine  is  but 
.  indifferent.      The  foil  of  this  diftricl,   which  confifts  chiefly 

of  volcanic   fubftances,    produces   little   corn,  but  fruit  in 

abundance,  of  which  the  apple  is  dekivedly  held  in  great 

efteerrio 


JOURNEY    TO     TARANTO.  *i5 

cPteem.  The  moil  profitable,  however,  of  all  its  fruit- 
trees  is  the  hazel.  Nut  bufhes  cover  the  face  of  the  valley, 
and  in  good  years  bring  in  a  profit  of  fixty  thoufand  ducats 
(£11,250).  I  enquired  into  many  particulars  concerning 
the  nuts,  and  believe  they  are  moftly  of  the  large  round 
fpecies  of  filbert,  which  we  call  Spanifh.  Thefe  bufhes 
were  originally  imported  into  Italy  from  Pontus,  and  known 
among  the  Romans  by  the  appellation  of  Nux  Po?iticay 
which,  in  procefs  of  time,  was  changed  into  that  of  Nux 
Avellanci)  from  the  place  where  they  had  been  propagated 
with  the  greateft  fuccefs.  The  proprietors  plant  them  in 
rows,  and  by  drefiing,  form  them  into  large  bufhes  of  many 
items.  Every  year  they  refrefh  the  roots  with  new  earth, 
and  prune  off  the  draggling  moots  with  great  attention. 


SECTION     XIII. 

*"T^  H  E  women  of  this  neighbourhood  are  handfome,  and 
take  great  pains  to  deck  out  their  perfons  to  ad- 
vantage. Once  a  week  they  wafli  their  hair  with  a  lye  of 
wood-ames,  that  changes  it  from  a  dark  brown  colour  to  a 
flaxen  yellow  of  many  different  tints  in  the  fame  head  of 
hair.  This  I  take  to  be  the  true  JIava  cccfaries  of  the  Latin 
poets.  Experience  has  taught  me  to  difcover  many  traces 
of  ancient  cufloms  in   the  modes  and  habits  of  the  modern 

Q_  2  Italians, 


U4  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

Italians*     Attentive  obfervation  will    make    a   perfbn,     to 
whom   the  claflic  writings  are  familiar,  fcnfible  of  this  re- 
femblance    every  day    he    pafles   in    the   fouthern   parts  of 
Italy,   efpecially   if  he   has  opportunities  of   ftudying    the 
manners  of  the  lower  clafs  of  inhabitants,   vvhofe  character 
has  as   yet  received   but  a  flight  tinge  from  a  mixture  with 
foreigners.     He  will  recognize  the  Prceficce  of  the  ancients, 
in  the  appearance  and  actions  of  old  women  that  are  hired 
in   Calabria  to  howl    at    burials.      The    funeral   behaviour 
and  meafure  of  grief  in  the  Calabrefe  are  regulated  by   the 
ftricteft  etiquette.    The  virtues  as  well  as  vices  of  a  deceafed 
father  of  a  family   are  recapitulated  by  the  oldefr.  perfon   in 
company.      The  widow  repeats  his   words,  adds  comments 
of  her  own,  then   roars   out  loudly,  and   plucks  off  hand- 
fuls  of  her  hair,  which  (he  ftrevvs  over  the  bier.      Daughters 
tear  their  locks,  and  beat  their  breafts,    but  remain  lilent... 
More   diftant  relations  repeat  the  oration  coolly,  and  com- 
mit no  outrage  upon  their  perfons.     When  the  kinfman  of 
a  baron  or  rich  citizen  dies,    a   number  of  old   women  are 
hired  to  perforin  all  thefe  ceremonies  for  the  family. 

At  Naples,  the  forms  are  rather  different.  I  was  one 
day  witnefs  of  the  funeral  of  an  old  fifherman.  The  actions 
of  his  widow  were  fo  ovei  (trained  as  to  be  truly  ridiculous : 
{he  tore  off  her  hair  and  clothes,  and  yelled  in  the  moil: 
hideous  manner,  till  her  Hep-foes  appeared  to  take  pop- 
fcfTion  of  the  goods :  lhe  then  turned  her  fury  upon  them, 
and  beat  them  out  of  the  houfe.      The  priefts  now  came  for 

the 


JOURNEY    TO     TARANTO.  115 

the  body,  and  fhe  oppofed  their  entry  for  a  decent  length 
of  time  ;  but  at  laft,  fuffering  herfelf  to  be  overpowered 
by  numbers,  flew  to  the  window  with  her  daughters  and 
her  mother  (who,  from  having  outlived  many  relations,  had 
fcarce  a  hair  left  on  her  head  ,  and  there  beat  her  bread, 
fcratched  her  cheeks,  and  threw  whole  handfuls  of  hair 
towards  the  bier  with  the  frantic  geftures  of  a  demoniac. 
The  proceflion  was  no  fooner  out  of  fight,  than  all  was 
quiet ;  and  in  five  minutes  I  heard  them  laughing  and 
dancing  about  the  room,  as  if  rejoicing  to  be  rid  of  the 
old  churl. 

In  fome  parts  of  the  country,  it  is  a  rule  to  fa  ft  the 
whole  day  of  the  interment.  Two  women,  in  a  village 
near  Salerno,  mother  and  daughter  of  a  farmer,  at  whofe 
removal  from  the  houfe  they  had  acted  their  parts  with 
great  applaufe,  locked  themfelves  up,  and,  in  order  to  re- 
cover ftrength  after  the  fatigue  they  had  undergone,  began, 
in  defiance  of  cuftom,  to  fry  fome  pieces  of  tripe  for  their 
dinner.  As  ill  luck  would  have  it,  a  couple  of  relations, 
who,  living  at  a  great  difrance,  had  come  too  late  for  the 
ceremony,  knocked  at  the  door  to  pay  their  refpecls  to  the 
difconfolate  widow.  Great  was  the  difficulty  they  found 
m  gaining  admittance  :  all  the  parade  of  grief  was  again 
difplayed,  the  dinner  flipped  into  a- napkin,  and  hid  under 
the  bed,  and  nothing  heard  in  the  room  but  groans  and 
lamentations.     The  ftrangers  entered  with  .compofed  mien, 

and 


n6  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

and  were  endeavouring,  with  little  fuccefs,  to  adminifter 
comfort  to  their  unhappy  kinfwomen,  when,  behold!  a 
dog  they  had  brought  with  them  winded  the  fry,  and 
dragged  it  out  into  the  middle  of  the  floor,  to  the  great 
fcandal  of  the  vifitors,  and  the  utter  confufion  of  the 
mourners,  whofe  reputation  was  irretrievably  ruined  in  the 
efteem  of  the  whole  parifli. 
The  verfe  in  Virgil, 

*  Hinc  alta  lub  rupe  caiiet  frondator  ad  auras,  Ecl.  i. 

naturally  occurs,  when,  in  our  walks  under  the  rocky 
cliffs  of  Pofilipo,  we  fee  the  peafant  fvvinging  from  the  top 
of  a  tree  on  a  rope  oftwifled  willows,  trimming  the  poplar, 
and  the  luxuriant  tendrils  of  the  vine,  and  hear  him  make 
the  whole  vale  ring  with  his  ruflic  ditty. 

A  clafllc   fcholar  cannot  {troll  under  the  groves  of  the 
plain,   without  calling  to  mind  Horace's 

*h  Durus 
Vindemiator  et  invi&us,  cui  fepe  viator 
Cefliflet,  magna  compellans  voce  cucullum.  Sat.  7. 

if  he  attend  to  the  vine-drefTer  fitting  among  the  boughs, 
laming  raw  lads  and  bafhful  maidens,  as  they  return  from 
market,  with  the  fame  grofs  wit  and  rough  jokes  that 
gave  fuch  zed  of  old  to  the  farces  of  Atella. 

*  '«  The  lopper  fhall  fing  to  the  winds  under  the  lofty  rock." 
t  A  rough  and  invincible  vine  drefler,  before  whom   the  traveller  often 
xetired,  calling  him  with  a  loud  voice  Cuckovv." 

3  The 


JOURNEY    TO     TARANTO.  i(i? 

The  Neapolitan  girls  dance  to  the  mapping  of  their 
lingers  and  the  beat  of  a  tambourine,  and  whirl  their  petti- 
coats about  them.  With  greater  elegance  in  the  pofition, 
and  more  airinefs  in  the  flow  of  the  drapery,  flriking  like- 
nefles  of  them  may  be  found  among  the  paintings  of 
Herculaneum. 

A  young  fifherman  of  Naples  naturally  throws  his 
limbs  into  moft  graceful  attitudes ;  and  it  was,  no  doubt, 
from  the  ftudy  of  fimilar  figures,  that  the  Grecian  Actua- 
ries drew  their  nice  ideas  of  beauty  and  perfection  of  forms. 

If  an  antiquary  longs  for  a  Roman  difh,  Sorrento  will 
fupply  him  with  the  paps  of  a  fow,  drefl  in  the  antique 
tafle,  by  the  name  of  Verrina  ;  and  I  believe  Peregrine 
Pickle's  learned  friend  might,  with  a  little  attention,  dis- 
cover Sufficient  remnants  of  ancient  cookery  in  the  environs 
of  Naples,  to  make  out  a  tolerable  bill  of  fare. 

To  this  day,  the  rigging  of  fmall  velTels  on  the  Neapo- 
litan coaft  anfvvers  the  defcriptions  left  us  of  ancient  fail- 
ing. I  doubt  whether  it  be  an  eafy  matter  to  compre- 
hend the  manoeuvres  of  Ulyfies  or  iEneas  in  their  various 
navigations,  without  having  examined  the  trim  of  one  of 
t?hefe  boats ;  nay,  I  believe  it  fcarce  poffible  to  enter  into 
the  fpirit  of  the  claffic  authors,  without  a  previous  vifit 
to  Italy  or  Greece.  I  am  certain  at  leaft,  that  my  travels 
on  claffic  ground  have  rendered  me  infinitely  more  kn- 
fible  of  their  beauties,  than  I  ever  mould  have  been  had  I. 
remained  at  home. 


lit  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO, 


SECTION     XIV. 

~\\T  E  made  an  excurfion,  two  miles  to  the  right,  to 
Atripalda,  a  fmall  town  built  upon  the  ruins  of 
Abellinum  Marficum,  as  a  great  number  of  mutilated  bafTo- 
relievos,  altars,  and  inferiptions  attefb.  The  inhabitants 
are  fuppofed  to  have  retired  from  it  in  the  middle  ages,  and 
to  have  founded  the  prefent  city  of  Avellino,  a  fituation 
more  convenient  for  traffic.  Atripalda,  which  drives  on 
fome  trade  in  paper,  cloth,  and  hardware,  Hands  upon  an 
eminence  compofed  of  ftrata  of  a  foft-  coloured  tufo.  This 
kind  of  petrifaction  has  been  produced  by  the  cementation 
of  allies,  earthy  particles,  and  water,  thrown  out  of  burn- 
ing mountains  ;  is  generally  of  a  yellow  cart,  with  fiiTures, 
xind  marked  with  horizontal  wavy  ftreaks.  I  faw  here  a 
very  delicate  fpecies  of  knot-grafs,  called  Finello,  which 
grows  in  the  woods,  is  (ilky,  and  ufed  in  fluffing  pack- 
faddles  and  chair-bottoms. 

In  1501,  when  the  French  and  Spaniards  divided  the 
kingdom  between  them,  the  former  held  their  courts  of 
juftice  for  the  principality  of  Benevento  at  Avellino  ;  and, 
upon  a  difpute  ariling  between  the  two  nations  concerning 
their  claims  to  the  pofTeffion  of  the  province,  the  Spaniards 
fent  their  law-officers  to  hold  an  affize  at  Atripalda.  The 
French  immediately  attacked    them  there,  and   by   this  act 

of 


JOURNEY    TO     TARANTO.  n9 

of  hoftility  provoked  a  war  that  ended  in  their  own  ex- 
pulsion out  of  the  realm. 

This  town  was  firft  held  in  fee  by  the  Montforts ;  it  was 
afterwards  granted  by  Ferdinand  the  Firfb  to  George  Caf- 
triot,  known  by  the  name  of  Scanderbeg,  Prince  of  Epirus, 
as  a  reward  for  his  timely  afliftance  in  1460,  when  he 
came  from  Greece  with  a  flrong  force,  raifed  the  liege  of 
Barletta,  and  difcomrited  the  army  of  John  of  Anjou  :  it 
now  gives  title  of  Duke  to  the  Prince  of  Avellino's  eldefr. 
fon. 

The  road  was  thronged  with  mules,  pigs,  fheep,  and 
cattle  of  a  large  grey  breed,  going  to  the  fair  of  Atripaida. 
The  current  price  of  a  good  mule  is  lixty  ducats 
(11/.  5*.);  of  a  pair  of  bullocks,  a  hundred  ducats 
(18/.   5 *.). 

As  we  returned  very  early,  it  was  agreed  to  fpend  the 
afternoon  in  a  vifit  to  the  Convent  of  Monte  Vergine, 
which  our  guide  pointed  out  to  us  on  a  wild  mountain, 
hanoino;  over  Avellino,  every  now  and  then  hidden  from 
our  fight  by  white  clouds  that  drove  along  its  fide.  The 
journey  to  it  was  rather  fatiguing ;  but  the  incompa- 
rable view  it  afforded  made  us  pay  little  regard  to  the 
trouble  of  climbing.  We  unluckily  arrived  at  an  undue 
hour,  which  deprived  us  of  the  pleafure  of  converting 
with  any  of  the  monks,  except  an  ignorant  lay- brother, 
who  mewed  us  the  church,  Not  having  had  an  opportu- 
nity of  procuring  information  on  the  fpot,  J  fhall  give  a 

R  fummary 


j20  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

fummary  of  what  I  have  fince  learnt  concerning  this  mo- 
nastery. 

In  Pagan  times,  this  mountain  was  facred  to  the  Mother 
of  the  Gods,  who  had  here  a  fumptuous  temple,  of  which 
four  columns  of  Portafanta  marble  *  are  employed  in  the 
prefent  fabric.  In  the  mufaeum  of  the  convent  is  preferved 
a  baiTo-relievo,  reprefenting  a  boy  with  a  cornucopias,  a 
ferpent  twined  round  a  fig-tree,  and  a  tripod,  emblems  of 
the  worfhip  of  Cybele  ;  fhe  was  fuppofed  to  wander  through 
the  woods,  in  fearch  of  medicinal  herbs  for  the  cure  of  dif- 
orders  incident  to  little  children,  and  was  therefore  looked 
upon  as  the  univerfal  mother  ;  Atys,  her  high-pried,  pro- 
nounced oracles,  or  gave  out  prcfcriptions,  from  a  three- 
legged  ftool.  Tradition  fays,  the  mountain  took  its  name 
from  one  Virginius,  or  Virgilius,  a  great  necromancer, 
who  had  a  garden  full  of  medicinal  herbs,  with  which  he 
compofed  his  magical  drugs  ;  there  is  ftill  a  level  fpot  of 
ground  called  l'Orto  di  Virgilio,  and  the  mountain  abounds- 
with  vulnerary  plants. 

Lonpr  after  Chriftianity  had  feated  itfelf  on  the  throne  of 
the  Cssfars,  long  after  the  inhabitants  of  mo  ft  cities  had 
conformed  to  the  fovereign's  mode  of  worfhip,  the  wild 
mountainous  parts  of  Italy  remained  obfcured  by  the  clouds 
of  idolatry.  The  Apennine  was  full  of  heathens,  and  from 
their  refiding  in  pagi,  or  villages,   the  name  of  Pagani  came 

*  A  fpecies  of  marble,  fo  named  from  the  Jubilee-door  of  Sc.  Peter's  atr 
Rome,  which  is  compofed  of  it. 

2  tO 


JOURNEY     TO     TARANTO.  12* 

to  be  fynonimous  to  that  of  Believer  in  the  ancient  deities  of 
the  empire*.  The  miiTionaries  fent  among  them  to  preach 
the  faith  of  Chrift,  found  no  means  of  converiion  fo  eafy 
and  efficacious  as  thofe  of  admitting  fome  of  the  names  and 
ceremonies  of  the  old  church  into  the  ritual  of  the  new  one. 
By  thus  adopting  many  tenets  and  forms  of  Paganifm,  they 
reconciled  their  profelytes  to  the  idea  of  exchanging  Jupiter 
for  Jehovah,  and  their  lares  and  penates  for  faints  and 
guardian  angels.  To  this  expedient  of  prieftcraft  muft  be 
afcribed  many  firange  devotions  and  local  fuperftitions,  fti!l 
prevalent  in  Roman  Catholic  countries,  which  ought  not  to 
be  confounded  by  the  adverfaries  of  that  church  with  its 
real  doctrines.  All  the  truly  learned  and  fenfible  perfons  of 
that  communion  reject,  abhor,  and  lament  fuch  deprava- 
tion ;  and,  were  it  poflible  to  reafon  rude  minds  out  of 
hereditary  prejudices,  would  long  fince  have  abolifhed 
them. 

It  was  no  doubt  in  compliance  with  the  above  concilia- 
tory method,  that  in  1119  the  mountain  was  refcued  from 
the  patronage  of  the  mother  of  the  falfe  gods,  and  dedi- 
cated to  the  Mother  of  Chrift,  by  William  of  Vercelli. 
He  retired  into  thefe  folitudes  to  exercife  upon  his  youthful 
fleiht  all   manner  of  holy  barbarities ;  and  when  zeal  and 

*  From  an  infeription  found  at  Atripalda,  in  1712,  we  learn  that  the 
pagan  religion  flouriihed  in  the  Neapolitan  provinces  after  the  death  of  Con- 
ftantine  the  Great.  It  relates  that  the  fenate  and  people  of  Abellinum  erected 
a  Itatue  to  C.  J.  Tatianus,  Conlular  of  Campania,  Prieft  of  Vefta  and  Her- 
cules.    He  was  in  office  during  the  reigns  of  Conllancine's  children. 

R   2  farting 


122  JOURNEYTOTARANTO. 

fafting  had  well  heated  his  imagination,  was  favoured  with 
an  apparition,  that  enjoined  him  to  erect  a  convent  on  the 
fpot.  In  obedience  to  the  command,  he  founded  this 
abbey,  the  mother  church  of  a  reform  of  the  Bcnenicline 
order.  The  monks  are  dreft  in  white,  and  had  once  fprcad 
themfelves  over  feveral  countries ;  but  are  at  prefent  con- 
fined to  one  houfe  in  the  Roman  ftate,  and  twenty-feven  in 
the  kingdom  of  Naples.  Frederic  of  Swabia  was  very 
partial  to  the  Verginians,  and  inftituted  a  confraternity  of 
knights  aggregated  to  their  fociety.  Charles  of  Valois  intro- 
duced the  order  into  France ;  but  all  traces  of  it  have  long 
been  loft  there  ;  and  we  fhall  probably  foon  hear  of  its  abo- 
lition in  Naples,  fuch  a  project  having  been  in  contempla- 
tion. 

In  1124,  William  finifhed  his  monaftery,  which  was 
foon  enriched  with  relics  fit  to  attract  the  notice  of  pious- 
believers  ;  but  it  loft  a  moft  capital  jewel  of  its  treafure  in 
1467,  when  Ferdinand  the  Firft,  under  pretence  of  oppo- 
fing  it  to  the  fury  of  the  plague,  obtained  leave  to  tranfport 
the  body  of  St.  Januarius  to  Naples.  The  roguifh  Neapo- 
litans, having  once  got  pofTeflion,  refufed  to  return  it  to- 
the  right  owners,  who  are  obliged  to  comfort  themfelves 
under  this  misfortune  with  the  coIofTal  portrait  of  the  Virgin 
Mary.  It  was  formerly  venerated  in  Antioch,  and  prefented 
to  this  fanctuary  by  Catherine,  wife  of  Philip  of  Anjou,. 
titular  emperor  of  Conftantinople.  The  head  of  this  picture 
is  very  old,   but  the  buft  was  added  by  Montano  d'Arezzo,. 

a  cele- 


JOURNEY    TO     TA-RANTO.  123 

a  celebrated  artift,  to  whom  Philip  gave  land  near  Nola,  as 
a  recompence.  This  image  is  of  gigantic  or  heroic  propor- 
tion, and  paffes  for  the  work  of  St  Luke  the  Evangelifr, 
though  the  very  fize  is  an  argument  again  ft  its  being  a  por- 
trait from  the  life,  had  we  even  the  ilip-hteft  reafon  to 
believe  that  he  had  ever  handled  the  pencil.  There  are  in 
Italy  and  elfcwhere  fome  dozens  of  black,  ugly  Madonnas, 
which  all  pafs  for  the  work  of  his  hands,  and  as  fuch  are 
revered  *. 

The  concourfe  of  votaries  is  prodigious  on  the  eighth  of 
September,  the  feaft  of  the  nativity  of  the  Patronefs.  The 
rule  of  the  Order  allows  neither  frefh  nor  fait  meat,  eggs, 
milk,  butter,  nor  cheefe  ;  and  furely  nobody  will  venture 
to  bring  up  any  of  thefe  prohibited  viands,  if  he  be  ac- 
quainted with  an  infeription  in  the  court,  relating  the  cata- 
ftrophe  of  four  hundred  pilgrims,  burnt  in  their  beds  in  161  r,. 
becaufe  one  of  them  had  brought  up  a  luncheon  of  cheefe  in 

*  The  origin  of  this  fable,  or  rather  miftake,  appears  to  be,  that,  about 
the  time  that  paintings  of  holy  fubjecls  came  into  fafhion,  there  lived  at 
Conftantinople  a  painter  called  Luke,  who,  by  many  reprefentations  of  the 
Virgin,  acquiied  a  very  tranfeendent  reputation.  He  was  a  man  of  exemplary 
life,  and  on  account  of  his  piety,  and  the  edifying  ufe  he  made  of  his  talents, 
was  generally  known  by  the  name  of  Holy  Luke.  In  procefs  of  time,  when 
the  epocha  and  circumftances  of  his  life  were  forgotten  by  the  vulgar,  and 
his  performances  hid  acquired  by  age  a  fmoky,  dufky  caft,  fufficient  to  per- 
plex the  fliort-fightcd  c  nnoifleurs  of  thole  days,  devotees  afcrioed  his  pictures 
to  the  Evangelift,  who  was  pronounced  a  painter,  becaufe  ihey  knew  of  no 
other  faint  of  the  name,  and  becaufe,  if  he  had  been  a  painter,  no  one  could 
have  had  fuch  opportunities  of  examining  and  delineating  the  features  of  the- 
Holy  mod«l. 

his 


I24  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

his  pocket.  Our  guide  hinted  to  us,  that  if  any  one  were 
to  eat  meat  here,  or  even  have  a  little  greafe  about  his  per- 
fon,  it  would  caufe  a  mod  tremendous  hurricane,  and 
overwhelm  the  whole  mountain  with  a  deluge  of  rain. 
Charles,  King  of  Hungary,  Prince  of  Salerno,  fon  of 
Charles  the  Second,  granted  to  thefe  fathers  a  patent,  by 
which  he  forbade  all  fait  filh  to  be  expofed  to  fale  in  the 
fair  of  Salerno,  till  the  agents  of  Monte  Vergine  had  made 
their  provifion  ;   a  privilege  they  enjoy  to  this  day. 

The  moft  ancient  monument  in  the  church  is  a  large 
farcophagus,  which  was  made  to  contain  the  a(hes  of 
Minius  Proculus  :  King  Manfred  intended  it  ftiould  be  the 
repofitory  of  his  own,  and  placed  it  in  a  chapel  he  had 
founded  in  this  religious  houfe  ;  but  his  bones  are  left  to 
blanch  in  the  fields  unknown,  while  the  urn  remains  with- 
out a  tenant.  John  di  LionefTa,  marfhal  of  the  Angevine 
army,  obtained  a  grant  of  the  chapel,  which  became  the 
fepulture  of  his  family.  Here  alfo  lie  the  bodies  of  the 
Emprefs  Catherine,  Mary  her  daughter,  and  Lewis  her  fon, 
married  to  Queen  Joan  the  Firft. 

On  the  fccond  of  Auguft,  1629,  the  nave  of  the  church 
was  thrown  in  by  an  earthquake,  and  moft  of  the  monu- 
ments beaten  to  dufl:.  The  Verginians  rebuilt  it  in  nine 
vears,  and  over  an  arch  of  the  court  placed  a  pompous 
mfcription,  which  contains  an  epitome  of  their  hiflory,  and 
may  ferve  as  an  epitaph  to  their  expiring  Order. 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  \2$ 


SECTION     XV. 

'T^  H  E  traces  of  fire  are  ftill  very  ftrong  for  feveral  miles 
beyond  Avellino,  though  here  and  there  the  burnt 
matter  is  intermingled  with  blocks  of  breccia,  or  coarfe 
pudding- ftone,  which  is  a  conglutination  of  pebbles.  Per- 
haps, even  thefe  have  undergone  the  trial  of  fire,  as  it  is 
not  uncommon  for  volcanos  to  caft  up  fmali  ftones  in  their 
natural  ilate,  with  a  quantity  of  water  full  of  grofs  vifcous 
particles ;  all  which  together  may  confolidate  into  mafles 
of  breccia.  This  fort  of  foil  extends  as  far  as  La  Serra,  a 
(haggling  hamlet  pleafantly  fituated  near  Monte  Fufcolo. 

Benevento  being  in  the  poffeiTion  of  the  Roman  fee,  the 
refidence  of  the  prefident  and  civil  officers  belonging  to  the 
Principato  Ultra  is  fixed  at  Monte  Fufcolo,  as  being  the 
moft  centrical  place  among  the  demenial  towns.  Its  pri- 
fons  are  noted  for  being  conftantly  full  of  malefactors,, 
which  gives  but  a  poor  idea  of  the  moral  character  of  the 
neighbouring  inhabitants.  They  are  indeed  in  very  bad. 
repute  for  robbery  and  afTaflination  ;  but  a  confiderable 
portion  of  the  delinquents  are  confined  for  fmuggling,  to* 
which  the  vicinity  of  the  papal  territories  is  a  great  encou- 
ragement. The  fituation  of  Monte  Fufcolo  is  exceedingly 
bleak,  and.  the  profpect    grand  over  an    immenfe  tract  o£ 

mountainous 


12G  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

mountainous  country.  Charles  of  Anjou  gave  it  to  Henry 
de  Vaudemont,  of  the  houfe  of  Lorraine.  It  has  long  been 
reunited  to  the  crown. 

The  hills  are  jfteep,  but  the  road  broad  and  well  made. 
Upon  a  riling  ground,  near  the  inn  of  Mirabella,  it  pafTes 
through  the  ruins  of  Eclanum,  an  ancient  city,  now 
called  by  the  peafants  La  Colonia  *.  In  the  early  ages  of 
Chriftianity,  here  was  a  bifhop's  fee,  fince  removed  to 
Frigento,  and  from  thence  to  Avellino.  Julian,  chief  of 
the  Semipelagian  heretics,  was  one  of  its  prelates.  It  is 
not  known  by  whom,  and  at  what  period,  this  city  was 
deftroyed  ;  at  prefent,  the  only  remains  are  fome  mounds, 
brick  walls,  fragments  of  marble  columns  and  entablements 
of  the  Doric  and  Corinthian  orders.  A  little  folitary  farm- 
houfe  has  been  added  to  an  antique  brick  front,  orna- 
mented with  brick  pilafters,  that  have  capitals  with  one 
row  of  leaves.  As  it  ftands  at  a  diftance  from  the  other 
ruins,  and  much  refembles  fome  monuments  near  Rome,  I 
take  it  to  be  a  maufoleum.  We  purchafed  here  a  few 
cornelians  and  medals  of  the  lower  empire,  dug  up  by  the 
hufbandmen. 

In   the  afternoon,  we  rode  fix  miles  fouth  to  Fiigento, 
by  a  deep  valley,  where  our   horfes  were  almoft:  up  to   the 


*  From  Benevento  the  Appian  way  pafled  through  Eclanum  (where  the 
Via  Trajana  branched  off  to  the  left),  and  from  thence  through  Frigento, 
Venufia,  and  Tarentum,  to  Brundufium. 

girths 


JOURNEY     TO     TARANTO,  127 

girths  in  clay,  though  the  weather  had  been  long  dry. 
The  country  for  the  moft  part  arable,  and  poorly  cul- 
tivated. Frigento  is  a  ruinous  place  on  a  hill,  moft 
wretchedly  built,  and  fcantily  provided  with  the  necef- 
faries  of  life.  Its  inhabitants,  in  number  two  thoufand, 
fubfift  by  the  fale  of  (heep,  hogs,  and  corn.  In  the  whole 
town  there  was  not  a  tolerable  inn,  where  we  could  ven- 
ture to  pafs  the  night;  and  fhould  have  fared  very  ill,  if 
we  had  not  accidentally  met  with  an  old  pried,  who  car- 
ried us  to  his  houfe  in  the  neighbourhood,  where  he  gave 
us  board  and  lodging,  and  entertained  us  after  fupper  with 
a  relation  of  his  own  adventures. 

He  was  born  in  this  province,  and  educated  at  Rome. 
He  there  attached  himfelf  to  a  prelate  likely  to  rife  in  the 
church,  and  accompanied  this  clergyman  to  feveral  courts 
in  quality  of  fecretary  to  the  nunciature  ;  but,  on  his  re- 
turn to  Italy,  was  fupplanted  by  the  artifices  of  a  col- 
league, turned  out  of  doors,  and  reduced  for  a  maintenance 
to  copy  writings  in  a  public  office.  His  enemies,  not  fa- 
tisfied  with  having  ruined  his  fortunes,  caufed  him  to  be 
fufpected  of  being  the  author  of  a  libel  againft  a  cardinal  ; 
for  which  offence  he  was  fhut  up  in  the  caftle  of  St, 
Angclo,  and,  after  fix  months  confinement,  banimed  the 
Roman  ftate.  At  Naples  he  entered  into  a  nobleman's 
family  as  fecretary,  and  unfortunately  becoming  the  con- 
fidant of  the  eldefl  fon,  a  mean  profligate  youth,  was  en- 
gaged in  a  nocturnal  riot,  where  he  faved  his  patron's 
life  at   the  expence   of  two  dangerous  wounds.      The  un- 

S  grateful 


I23  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

grateful  nobleman  took  no  further  notice  of  him,  but  left 
him  to  languifh  for  many  months  in  a  hofpital.  As  foon 
as  he  was  cured,  he  fet  out  on  foot,  pennilefs  and  in  rags, 
for  the  place  of  his  nativity ;  where,  after  many  years 
humble  attendance  on  an  old  relation,  he  inherited  an 
eftate,  and  obtained  a  benefice,  fufficient  to  fupply  him 
with  all  the  necefTaries  and  comforts  of  life  that  fo  retired 
a  part  of  the  world  admits  of.  This  good  old  philufopher, 
who  faw  but  little  of  the  people  of  the  neighbourhood,  was 
delighted  to  fpend  an  evening  with  company  that  could 
converfe  of  Paris,  Rome,  and  other  places  which  he  had 
feen  in  his  juvenile  days,  a  pleafure  he  feldom  tafted  ;  but 
he  could  not  help  exprefllng,  with  a  figh,  his  appre- 
henfions  that  our  vifit  would  cofl:  him  a  few  bitter  reflec- 
tions, as  it  revived  fenfations  that  had  been  long  lulled  to 
reft  in  the  bottom  of  his  foul. 

Next  morning  he  accompanied  us  four  miles  to  the 
Moffetta,  fuppofed  to  be  the  fame  as  the  Amfancti  Valles, 
through  which  Virgil  makes  the  fury  Alecto  defcend  to 
hell.  His  dark  hanging  wood,  rumbling  noife,  and  curling 
vortex,  agree  perfectly  well  with  the  prefent  appearances  *. 

We  were  led  into  a  narrow  valley,  extending  a  con- 
fiderable  way  to  the  fouth-weft,  and  preft  in  on  both  fides 
by   hi°"h  ridges  thickly  covered  with  copfes   of  oak.      The 

bottom 

*  Eft  locus  Italia  medio  fub  montibus  altis 
Amfan&i  valles  :  denfis  hunc  i'rondibus  atrura 
Urget  utrimque  latus  nemoris,  medioque  fragofus 
Dat  fonitum  faxis  ettorto  vortice  torrens.  JEneid.  lib.  7. 

"  There 


JOURNEY    TO     TARANTO.  129 

bottom  of  the  dell  is  bare  and  arid  :  in  the  loweft  part, 
and  clofe  under  one  of  the  hills,  is  an  oval  pond  of  muddy 
afh-coloured  water,  not  above  fifty  feet  in  diameter  :  it 
boils  up  in  feveral  places  with  great  force  in  irregular  fits, 
which  are  always  preceded  by  a  hilling  found.  The  water 
was  feveral  times  fpouted  up  as  high  as  our  heads  in  a  dia- 
gonal direction,  a  whirlpool  being  formed  round  the  tube, 
like  a  bafon,  to  receive  it  as  it  fell.  A  large  body  of 
vapour  is  continually  thrown  out  with  a  loud  rumbling 
noife.  The  ftones  on  the  riling  ground  that  hangs  over 
the   pool   are  quite    yellow,   being  ftained  with  the  fumes 

w  There  is  a  place  in  the  centre  of  Italy  under  lofty  mountains,  called  the 
««  Valley  of  Amlanftus.  On  each  fide  a  bank,  of  wood,  black  with  thick 
"  foliage,  prefles  upon  it ;  and  in  the  middle  a  thundering  torrent  whirls 
"  about  the  ftones,  and  curls  up  its  waves  " 

The  Abbe  Chaupy,  author  of  an  ingenious  eccentrical  diflertation  on 
Horace's  country-houle,  is  of  opinion,  that  Virgil  meant  the  fulphureous 
ponds  of  Cutilia^  near  Rieti,  becaufe  they  are  more  truly  in  the  center  of 
Italy,  and  furrounrkd  by  higher  mountains  ;  and  becaufe,  when  Alecto 
blows  her  horn  to  call  the  fhepherds  to  arms,  he  fays,  it  (book  the  river 
Nar,  and  the  fjurces  of  the  Velihus,  both  which  are  in-the  neighbourhood 
of  Cutilias  ;  nev.rthelefs,  as  Chaupy  exhibits  no  proof  that  Cutiliae  ever 
bore  the  name  of  Ami'anclus,  and  as  the  mountains  of  the  Principato  are 
certainly  lofty  enough  to  juftif;.  the  expreflion  of  "  fub  montibus  aids,"  I 
rather  incline  to  leave  the  Hirpini  in  quiet  pofleffion  of  this  pafiage  into  the 
infernal  regions. 

Venuti,  in  Monaldini's  folio  edition  of  Virgil,  gives  a  diflertation  and 
print  to  prove,  that  the  fury  went  down  in  a  hole  at  Monte  Catino,  though 
he  acknowledges  there  is  no  ptrilii mtial  vapour,  nor  much  wooJ,  in  that 
place.  The  boundaries  of  Italy  have  fo  often  varied,  that  the  middle  of  it 
cannot  be  fixed  in  any  precile  fpot  •,  and  I  fee  no  reafon  why  a  place,  equi- 
diftant  from  both  feas,  may  not  be  laid  to  be  in  the  middle  of  the  country. 

S    2  Of 


j3q  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

of  fulphur  and  fal  ammoniac.  A  moft  naufeous  fmell 
rifmg  with  the  fleam  obliged  us  to  watch  the  wind,  and 
keep  clear  of  it,  to  avoid  fuffocation.  The  water  is  quite 
infipid  both  as  to  tafte  and  fmell  ;  the  clay  at  the  edges  is 
white,  and  carried  into  Puglia  to  rub  upon  fcabby  fheep, 
on  which  account  the  lake  is  farmed  out  at  one  hundred 
ducats  a  year. 

On  a  hill  above  this  lake  ftood  formerly  a  temple  de- 
dicated to  the  Goddefs  Mephitis;  but  I  perceived  no  re- 
mains of  it. 

Having  taken  leave  of  our  kind  conductor,  we  re- 
turned to  the  great  road,  and  travelled  eight  miles  farther 
to  Ariano,  over  very  high  naked  hills,  not  unlike  thofe  of 
Upper  Andalufia.  Near  Grotta  Minarda,  the  Roman, 
road,  which  Horace  followed,  ftaikes  off  to  the  right 
hand  to  Trevico  *,  a  baronial  town  on  an  eminence,, 
which  recommended  itfelf  to  our  notice,  by  holding  a, 
place  in  that  poet's  journal ;  for,  fince  that  of  the  journey 
from  Rome  to  Reggio,  faid  to  have  been  written  by  the 
fatirift  Lucilius,  has  not  reached  us,  we  may  confider 
Horace's  fifth  fatire  as  the  prototype  of  all  tours  and. 
travels ;  and  therefore  every  ftage  of  it  is  an  objecl  of 
curiofity  and  veneration. 

*  Trevico  is  a  marquifate  of  the  Loffredi,  a  family  of  Lombard  or  Nor- 
man origin.     Of  this  houfe   was  Francis,  who  harangued  Charles  of  A njou 
on   his  triumphal  entry  into  Naples,  and  was  employed  by  that  prince  id. 
many  embaffies  and  negociations. 


JOURNEY     TO    TARANTO.  lji 


SECTION      XVI. 

A  R  I A  N  O  is  an  ugly  city,  built  upon  the  uneven  Turn- 
mit  of  a  mountain,  with  an  extenfive  look-out  on  all 
fides,  but  expofed  to  every  blafh  that  blows.  We  found  the 
feafon  very  backward  here,  when  compared  with  the  fpring 
we  had  left  in  the  Terra  di  Lavoro.  It  does  not  appear  to 
be  fo  old  as  the  time  of  the  Romans,  therefore  may  be  fup- 
pofed  to  owe  its  rife  to  the  demolition  of  fome  neighbouring 
town,  and  to  the  advantages  its  fituation  afforded  for  difco- 
very  and  defence*. 

The  firft  Earl  of  Ariano  I  find  recorded  in  hiftory,  was 
Roger,  a  perfon,  no  doubt,  of  Norman  extraction  :  he  re- 
belled againft  King  Roger,  was  taken,  ftripped  of  his  pofTef- 
fions,  and  fent  prifoner  to  Sicily.  Charles  the  Firft  gave  it. 
to  Henry  de  Vaudemont  ;  the  Sabrans  were  afterwards  its. 
lords ;  and  then  the  Caraffas,  the  Gonzagas,  and,  under 
Alphonfus  the  Firft,  the  Guevaras.  In  1466  it  became  part 
of  the  demefne  of  the  Crown. 

It  is  but  a  poor  place,  without  trade  or  manufactures  ;; 
having  declined  ever  fince  the  defolation  caufed  by  an 
earthquake  in  1456.  It  reckons  about  fourteen  thoufand- 
inhabitants,  and  no  lefs  than  twenty  parishes  and  convents,, 
befides  an  ill-endowed  cathedral. 

*  Cluver  places  iEquotuticus  here,  without  proof  or  probability. 

The. 


i32  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

The  wine  of  Ariano  is  pale,  like  red  champagne,  which 
it  alfo  refembles  in  a  certain  tartnefs,  exceedingly  refrefhing 
in  hot  weather. 

The  foil  here  lies  upon  a  foft  argillaceous  ftone.  At  a 
fmall  diftance  to  the  eaft,  is  a  bank  confifting  of  layers  of 
volcanical  earths,  interfperfed  with  thick  ftrata  of  oyfter- 
fhells.  The  partizans  of  a  watry  fyftem  will  account  for 
thefe  oftracites  by  the  fubfiding  and  gradual  depofitions  of 
the  fea.  Theologifts  will  feize  upon  them  as  proofs  and 
memorials  of  a  general  deluge.  Others  again,  inclining  to 
attribute  more  to  the  agency  of  fire,  will  infift  upon  thefe 
fhells  having  been  pumped  out  of  the  fea  by  the  force  of 
an  eruption,  in  fome  very  diftant  age,  when  the  fait  waters 
came  much  nearer  the  heart  of  Italy  than  they  do  at 
prefent.  It  is  the  opinion  of  many  learned  obfervers  of  the 
operations  and  progrefs  of  Nature,  that  moft  parts  of  Italy 
owe  their  origin  to  fire,  and  that  at  firft,  only  the  chain  of 
calcareous  mountains  called  the  Apennine,  towered  above 
the  level  of  the  waters,  which  then  covered  all  the  lowlands. 
Others  carry  it  dill  farther,  and  afiert,  that  nothing  fouth  of 
the  Alps  exifted  ab  origine  above  the  furface  of  the  waves, 
but  that  the  firft  eruptions  began  between  the  gulphs  of  S. 
Eufemia  and  Squillace,  from  whence  they  fpread  gradually, 
till  they  had  completed  the  production  of  all  Italy.  Ac- 
cording to  them,  after  the  firft  dry  point  was  fixed,  hills 
rofe  upon  hills,  volcanoes  fhot  up  in  clufters,  and  formed 
an  invincible  barrier,  which  for  ever  ftiut  out  all  return  of 
2  the 


JOURNEYTOTARANTO.  133 

the  Tea.  Man  defcended  from  the  Alps  to  cultivate  the  new 
exuberant  foil ;  and  the  mountains  being  now  far  removed 
from  the  warm  fleams  of  the  waters,  to  which  they  were 
indebted  for  their  fertility,  were  abandoned  to  the  wild 
beafts  of  the  foreft.  The  very  name  of  Italy  is  by  fome 
faid  to  imply  a  fiery  origin,  or  an  elevation  above  the 
ocean. 

One  paradoxical  writer  affirms,  that  the  coins  of  Magna 
Grsecia  allude  to  thefe  revolutions.  In  the  bull  of  Sybaris 
he  fees  a  fmoking  mountain,  or  a  river  choaked  up  by  an 
eruption.  The  Hercules  of  Heraclea  fignifies  a  volcano  ; 
his  arrows  lightning  :  the  aquatic  plant,  the  ftagnated  watry 
(tare  of  the  country  before  the  efforts  of  fire  divided  and 
dried  it;  the  fhell  reprefents  the  crater;  the  upright  vale, 
a  lake;  the  falling  jug,  an  overturned  country;  and  a  vefTel 
with  the  bottom  upwards,  the  draining  of  it. 

We  procured  a  lodging  at  the  Dominican  convent  below 
the  town.  Within  thefe  lafl:  hundred  years,  their  houfe  has 
been  thrice  rebuilt,  having  been  as  often  thrown  to  the 
ground  by  earthquakes.  The  lafl  and  moft  deftructive 
happened  in  1732,  fatal  to  all  the  country  that  lies  along 
the  eaftern  verge  of  the  Apennine.  In  order  to  fecure  a 
retreat,  in  cafe  of  future  accidents,  which  from  their  fitua- 
tion  they  have  every  reafon  to  expect,  thefe  fathers  have 
conftrucled  a  fmall  building  of  wood,  the  parts  of  which 
being  joined  together  with  ftrong  iron  chains,  are  contrived 
fo  as  to  have  a  proper  play,   and  by  yielding  to  the  ofcilla- 

tory 


134  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

tory  motion   of  the   earth,    return    eafily  to   their  equili- 
brium. 

It  is  remarkable  that  Abruzzo,  Puglia,  and  Calabria  are 
repeatedly  laid  wafte  by  earthquakes,  while  the  mores  of 
Terra  di  Lavoro,  though  expofed  to  the  fury  of  Vefuvius, 
are  feldom  damaged  by  fimilar  concufTions.  The  iffue  that 
is  given  by  that  mountain  to  the  fubterraneous  fires  and 
vapours,  no  doubt  preferves  the  neighbourhood  from  all 
violent  mocks,  and  the  want  of  fuch  a  vent-hole  on  the 
eaftern  coaft,  is  the  probable  caufe  of  the  convulfions  that 
fo  often  overturn  its  cities.  A  paflage  in  Strabo  corrobo- 
rates this  opinion,  by  informing  us  that  in  his  time  Cam- 
pania was  fubjecl  to  frequent  and  deftructive  earthquakes ; 
and  we  know  that,  fixteen  years  before  the  firft  recorded 
exploiion  of  Vefuvius,  Pompeii,  Stabia,  and  many  neigh- 
bouring towns,  were  thrown  down,  and  only  in  part  rebuilt, 
when  the  great  cataflrophe  of  79  buried  them  in  lava  and 
allies.  From  the  fcanty  chronicles  of  the  lower  ages, 
during  which  k\v  eruptions  are  mentioned,  we  may  gather 
that  Naples  and  its  diftndt  were  continually  torn  to  pieces 
by  earthquakes ;  except  in  the  firft.  efforts  of  an  eruption, 
they  are  now  feldom  felt  there,  fince  the  mountain  has 
enjoyed  free  and  conftant  exhalation.  Buffon  thinks  the 
vicinity  of  the  fea  fo  effential  to  the  operations  of  a  volcano, 
that  without  the  convenience  of  water,  a  fufficient  effervef- 
cence  cannot  be  obtained  in  its  bowels,  and  all  its  efforts  to 
burfl  the  earth,  in  order  to  give  paffage  to  the  fiery  con- 

4  tents, 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  iS5 

tents,  become  of  courfe  feeble  and  ineffectual.  According 
to  this  hypothecs,  the  retreat  of  the  fea  from  the  Apennine 
diminished  by  degrees  the  force  of  the  volcanoes  which  once 
abounded  in  that  chain  of  mountains ;  but,  by  their  impo- 
tent ftruggles,  they  (till  are  able  to  fhake  the  foundations 
of  the  whole  country,  and  extend  their  ravages  to  a  much 
greater  diftance  than  Vefuvius  ever  does  in  the  molt  terrible 
paroxyfms  of  its  rage. 

From  Ariano  we  defcended  very  rapidly  towards  the 
Adriatic,  having  hitherto  been  continually  mounting  from 
the  level  of  the  Mediterranean  fea  j  and  being  affured  that 
many  robbers  were  lurking  in  the  forefts,  we  took  an  efcort 
of  cavalry,  not  to  appear  obftinate  and  foolhardy,  though, 
we  gave  very  little  credit  to  the  report.  Thefe  detachments 
of  troopers  are  ftationed  by  order  of  government  at  proper 
difiances,  to  take  travellers  and  merchants  under  their  fafe- 
guard. 

After  palling  over  a  very  high  champaign  country,  the 
roud  falls  into  a  deep  valley  of  confiderable  length  ;  at  the 
end  oi  which  the  Puglian  plains  and  the  Adriatic  fea  appear 
like  horizontal  (tripes  of  different  (hades. 

Two  fmall  towns,  Savignano  and  Greci,  itand  loftily  on 
each  fide  of  the  defile.  The  latter  is  a  colony  of  about 
one  thoufand  four  hundred  Albanefe,  who  ftill  fpeak  a 
mixed  jargon  between  Italian  and  the  Epirote  language. 
Till  i -31  they  followed  the  Greek  rite;  but  then,  by 
royal  mandate,  exchanged  it  for  the  Latin  liturgy. 

T  Our 


,„6  TOURNEY    TO    TARAN  TO. 

Our  ride  now  became  more  agreeable,   as  we  travelled 
down  the  pleafant  banks  of  the  Cervaro.     Handfome  woods 
clothe  the  mountains  on  each  fide  from  the  fummit  to  the 
water  edge.     Our    fmell    was    refrefhed    by   the  fragrance 
rifing  from  thickets  of  flowering  flirubs ;  and  our  fight  de- 
lighted with  the  gay  bloom  of  the  arbor  fuda,  which  grows 
abundantly  in  this  wildernefs.     There  is  but  little  timber  of 
any  value,  mofr.  of  the  oaks  having  been  lopped  for  fuel. 
The  inn  at  the  bridge  of  Bovino  is  placed  in  a  cheerful 
Situation ;  but  from  the  lownefs  of  its  pofition,    and  the 
proximity  of  the  woods  and  water,  in  the  fummer  feafon  is 
fubjecl:  to  malignant  fevers. 

The  city  of  Bovino  ftands  very  high  on  the  fouth  fide  of 
the  river.  This  is  a  dutchy  belonging  to  the  Guevaras, 
one  of  the  Spanifh  families  that  followed  the  fortunes  of 
Alphonfus  the  Magnanimous  *. 

We  continued  our  journey  on  the  north  fide  of  the  river, 
through  an  immenfe  woody  plain  covered  with  low  Hunted 
oaks  and  very  coarfe  benty  grafs.  On  the  edge  of  this 
foreft  the  King  has  a  hunting  feat,  to  which  the  public  is 
indebted  for  the  noble  road  his  father  made  from  Naples 
hither.  It  is  a  pity  the  prefent  fovereign  does  not  honour 
Bovino  now  and  then  with  a  vifit,  as  repairs  begin  to  be 
very  neceffary  for  the  roads.     Their  covering  is  quite  worn 

*  There  are  (till  three  other  Aragonian  houfes  in  Naples,  viz.  Cavaniglia, 
Cardines,  and  Avalos,  which,  with  Guevara,  walk  in  folemn  procefiion 
through  Naples,  on  the  o&ave  day  of  Corpus  Domini,  and  vifit  four  altars 
magnificently  decked  out  at  their  joint  expence. 

out, 


JOURNEY    TO    TARAN  TO.  137 

out,  and  cut  through  to  the  very  foundations.  Their  dc- 
flruction  is  haftened  by  the  wade  waters  of  the  fountains 
erected  by  King  Charles.  The  conduits  are  broken  or 
choaked  up,  and  the  water  runs  down  the  highway,  where 
it  forms  quickfands  and  dangerous  Houghs. 

We  croffed  an  ancient  Roman  road,  Hill  difcemible  among 
the  bu flies*. 

A  few  miles  to  the  left,  is  Troja,  built  on  an  eminence  out 
of  the  ruins  of  JEcas,  a  city  deftroyed  by  Con  flans  the  Se- 
cond. Eagianus,  Catapan  or  Viceroy  of  the  province,  is  faid 
to  have  founded  Troja  in  the  eleventh  century,  by  order  of 
the  emperors  Bafll  and  Conftantine,  to  ferve  as  a  bulwark 
againft  the  inroads  of  the  Norman  adventurers,  and  to  have 
given  it  that  name  in  commemoration  of  the  famous  city 
which  by  its  fall  has  immortalized  the  heroes  of  Greece.  It 
was  long  accounted  a  key  to  the  Apennines,  and  as  fuch  was 
expofed  to  many  affaults  and  fleges.  The  very  year  of  jts 
foundation  it  was  ftormed  by  the  Germans,  and  King 
Roger  alfo  took  it  very  foon  after.  Scarce  a  rebellion  hap- 
pened under  the  Normans,  but  this  place  was  a  principal 
fufferer.  It  is  memorable  for  the  overthrow  of  John  of 
Anjou  by  Ferdinand  the  Firft.    Under  Robert  and  Joan 'the 

*  It  was  the  .ZEquotutican,  which  came  through  Trajan's  arch  at  Benevento, 
where  it  branched  off  from  the  Via  Appia,  palled  by  the  Ponte  Valentino, 
under  Forum  Novum  now  La  Padula,  by  iEquuftuticus  now  Buon  Albergo, 
iEcas  now  Troja,  and  crofiing  the  prefent  road  from  Foggia,  ran  to  Herdonia 
now  Ordona,  and  at  Canofa  joined  the  way  that  came  from  Grotta  Minarda 
and  Afcoli. 

T  2  Firft, 


133  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

Firfl,  I  find  Trqja  was  a  fief  of  the  Capuas ;  in  the  reign 
of  Charles  the  Third,  Perotto  of  lvrea  had  it ;  Cavanilla 
poffeffed  it  after  the  acceflion  of  the  line  of  Aragon  ;  and 
now  it  is  in  the  houfe  of  Avalos. 


SECTION     XVII. 

\\T  E  foon  after  left  the  woods,  climbed  up  the  laft  ridge, 
and  then,  through  a  wafte  covered  with  wild  pear- 
trees,  defcended  into  the  extenfive  plains  of  Puglia,  which 
afford  a  profpedt  curious  from  its  novelty,  but  difagreeable 
after  the  furvey  of  a  few  minutes. 

In  the  centre  (lands  Foggia,  without  walls,  citadel,  or 
gates,  though  a  principal  town  of  the  province  of  Capita- 
nata.  It  is  neatly  built  of  white  (tone,  and  has  two  or 
three  good  ftreets.  The  cuftom-houfe  is  a  handfome 
edifice. 

This  town,  with  many  others  on  the  coaft,  was  ruined 
in  1732  by  an  earthquake,  which  has  occafioned  its  being 
rebuilt  with  greater  neatnefs  and  regularity.  In  fummer 
the  air  is  unwholefome,  and  all  perfons,  that  can  afford  to 
remove,  defert  it  during  the  hot  months.  In  winter  it  is 
computed  to  contain  about  twenty  thoufand  inhabitants, 
including  ftrangers.  All  the  large  ftreets  and  open  fquares 
are  undermined  with  vaults,  where  corn  is  buried,  and  pre- 
ferved  found  from  year  to  year.     The  orifices  are  clofed 

up 


JOURNEY     TO     TARANTQ.  139 

up  with  boards  and   earth  ;   the  fides   within   faced  with 
ftone  *. 

I  find  little  mention  made  of  this  place  before  the  coming 
in  of  the  Svvabians.  Frederick  built  a  fortrefs  here,  to 
overawe  the  Puglians,  and  took  great  delight  in  this  refr- 
dence.  His  fixth  wife,  Ifabella,  daughter  of  John,  King  of 
England,  died  here  in  124.1.  Here,  according  to  moft 
hiftorians,  was  murdered,  by  order  of  his  brother  Conrad, 
Henry,  fon  of  Frederick  and  Ifabella,  to  whom  that  empe- 
ror had  bequeathed  the  kingdom  of  Jerufulem,  with  large 
pofleflions  in  Europe,  reannexed  in  1253,  by  this  abomina- 
ble fratricide,  to  the  crown  of  Sicily.  In  1254.,  Foggia  was 
fackcd  by  the  foldiers  of  the  regent  Manfred,  and  hither  fled 
the  Pope's  legate  and  army  before  the  victorious  troops  of 
that  prince.  The  papal  general  demolished  the  imperial 
palace,  and  em  ployed  the  materials  to  Strengthen  his  en- 
trenchments ;  but  was  neverthelefs  foon  obliged  to  capitu- 
late. In  1268,  the  Angevines  pillaged  this  town,  with 
every  circumitance  of  cruelty  and  licentioufnefs.  Here 
Philip,  the  fecond  fon  of  Charles  the  Firfr,  was  married 
v\  ith  great  folemnity  to  the  Princefs  of  Morea,  and  here 
a!fo  he  foon  after  died.  A  general  of  the  King  of  Hungary 
abandoned  it  in  1350  to  his  foldiers,  who  found  in  it 
immenfe  booty,  as  Foggia  was  at  that  time  the  moft  opu- 
lent place  in  Puglia.  Its  confequence,  both  in  ancient  and 
modern  times,   has  been,   and  ftill  is,  owing  to  its  being  a 

*  From  thefe  holes,  orfojfe,  comes  the  word  Foggia. 

ftaple 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

flaple  for  corn  and  wool,  and  to  a  tax  or  regifter  office, 
known  by  the  name  of  the  Tribunate  della  dcgana  della 
men  a  delle  pecore  di  Puglia  \  i.  e.  "  The  cuftom-houfe  for 
the  toll  of  the  fheep  that  pafs  to  and  from  Puglia."  It  is 
managed  by  a  governor,  auditor,  and  two  advocates,  and 
has  the  diflribution  of  a  fixed  afllflment  upon  all  fheep  that 
defcend  in  autumn  from  the  mountains  of  Abruzzo,  into 
the  warm  plains  of  Puglia,  where  they  yean,  and  in  May 
return  to  the  high  country. 

We  have  the  authority  of  Varro  and  others  for  afcribing 
the  invention  of  this  duty  to  the  ancient  Romans ;   who,  on 
fubduing  the  Italian  ftates,  were  wont  to  allot  the  improved 
lands  to  colonies  of  their  own  citizens,   while  they  left  the 
original  pofleflbrs  the  ufe  of  the  waftes  and  lefs  cultivated 
tracts,  under  the  obligation  of  paying  a  tenth  of  the  produce 
of  the  corn-lands,  and  a  fifth  of  all  other  fruits.      Breeders 
of  cattle  and  fheep  were  to  compound  with   the  cenfors, 
who  every  year  hung  out  a  table  of  the  conditions  on  which 
they  propofed  to  leafe  out   the  public  paflures,      A  lift  of 
the  fheep  intended  to  be  fent  to  graze  thereon  was  given  in, 
and  a  proper  allotment  of  land  afligned,  according  to  their 
number  and  the  goodnefs  of  the  pafturage :   this  was  called 
•  Scriptuarius  Ager.      In  later  times,  the  Emperors  appropri- 
ated :all  filch  common  lands  to  themfelves,  and  caufed  them 
to   be   confidered   as   their  peculiar   royalties.      Varro   fays, 
iheep  were  driven  out  of  Apulia  into  Samnium  before  fum- 
nycr,    and   on    their   pafTage   were  obliged  to   be   declared 

(profiteri) 


JOURNEY    TO    TAR  AN  TO.  ,4j 

(profiteri)  to  the  publican.  We  gather  from  Odofredus  of 
Beneventum,  a  writer  of  the  thirteenth  century,  that  this 
duty  was  not  loft  in  that  age ;  but  in  the  two  following 
ones  the  pafTage  feems  to  have  become  quite  free,  and  the 
paftures  of  Puglia  open  without  fee  to  all  fliepherds  that 
chofe  to  bring  down  their  flocks. 

Alphonfus  the  Firft,  forefeeing  an  immenfe  accetfion  to 
the  royal  revenue  from  the  proper  management  of  fuch 
cuftoms,  but  at  the  fame  time  being  defirous  cf  avoiding 
every  fhadow  of  coercive  legiflation  and  tyranny  in  the  re- 
eftablifhment  of  them,  deputed  Francis  de  Montubler  to 
treat  with  the  graziers  and  fheep-mafters  of  Abruzzo,  and 
the  land-owners  of  Puglia.  This  intelligent  minifter  dif- 
pofed  the  minds  of  thofe  he  had  to  deal  with  fo  favourably, 
that  he  brought  them  to  terms  of  great  advantage  to  the 
crown,  and  prefent  profit  to  themfelves.  The  King  en- 
gaged to  fupply  the  breeders  with  a  new  fine  race  of  fheep 
imported  from  Spain  * ;  to  provide  winter  pafturao-e  for 
feven  months,  and  a  convenient  road,  called  the  Tratturo, 
fixty  paces  wide,  for  the  palling  and  repaying  of  the 
flocks;    freedom  from  all    royal    tolls,    and    other    dues  5 

*  It  is  affirmed  by  the  annctator  on  Delicis  Tarentirue,  that  they  were 
propagated  from  fome  fheep  fent  as  a  prefent  by  Edward  of  England 
to  a  John  of  Aragon.  Rapin  fays,  Edward  the  Fourth  was  blamed  by  the 
nation  for  giving  away  fheep,  and  thereby  improving  the  Spanifh  wool,  to 
the  detriment  of  the  Englifh  fale  •,  bur  Edward  the  Fourth  reigned  after  the 
death  of  Alphonfus,  and  thcrefoie  it  is  likely  Edward  the  Third  was  the 
donor,  as  he  was  acotemrorary  and  in  league  with  John  the  Firft  of  Arag'on. 

I  guards 


i42  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

guards  and  protection  from  all  afTaults  and  difturbances, 
and  materials  for  their  huts  and  folds  at  reafonable  prices, 
and  on  credit.  He  bound  himfelf  to  compel  all  barons 
and  bodies  corporate,  on  the  route,  to  furnifh  herbage  for 
the  fheep  during  twenty-four  hours,  and  to  compound 
moderately  for  all  demands  at  bars  and  bridges. 

The  Crown  not  being  poffefled  of  a  fufficient  range  of 
pafture  for  the  great  flocks  expected  down  from  Abruzzo, 
Montubler  purchafed  of  the  Puglian  proprietors  as  much 
more  as  was  deemed  adequate  to  the  purpofe.  The  pur- 
chafe,  or  rather  perpetual  leafe,  was  only  made  for  feven 
months  in  the  year,  during  which  time  no  other  fheep  or 
cattle  are  allowed  to  feed  in  the  plains ;  and  in  cafe  of 
failure  of  herbage,  the  Crown  referved  a  power  of  com- 
pelling all  fubjecls  to  let  a  leafe  of  fuch  grafs  lands  as 
might  be  wanted  to  make  up  the  deficiency,  and  to  abide 
by  the  evaluation  of  its  officers.  The  ancient  owners  Mill 
continue  abfolute  matters  of  the  foil,  and  may  difpofe  of 
the  fummer  herbage  as  they  think  proper,  and  at  all  times 
turn  fwine  into  the  woodlands.  For  all  thefe  leafed 
grounds,  the  King  agreed  to  pay  for  ever  thirteen  thoufand 
nine  hundred  and  tvvelve  ducats  a  year,  to  ftand  all  rifks 
and  lofTes,  and  to  defray  all  expenccs  attending  the  col- 
lection, which  are  computed  at  about  fourteen  thoufand 
four  hundred  and  thirty-four  ducats  more.  Thefe  royal 
paftures  are  bounded  by  (tones,  and  known  by  the  name 
of  Tavoliere.      They  extend  fixty  miles  in  length,  and  thirty 

2  in 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

in  breadth,  divided  into  twenty- three  old  lots,  and  twenty- 
new  ones,  capable  in  all  of  feeding  one  million  two 
hundred  thoufand  fheep. 

In  return  for  all  thefe  attentions  on  the  part  of  the  King, 
the  fhepherds  of  Abruzzo  bound  themfelves   for  ever,   to 
defcend   from  the  mountains  every  year,  to   fubmit  to  the 
jurifdiction,    parcelling    powers,    and   penalties  pronounced 
by  the  Dogana,  and  to  pay,  for  every  five  fcore  of  fheep, 
the  fum  of  eight  Venetian  crowns,  equal  to  eight  Neapo- 
litan ducats  and  four  taris.     The  Crown  has   fince,  by  a 
ftretch    of  prerogative,  raifed  the  duty    twice;    once,    in 
1556,   to   twelve  crowns;  and  a  fecond  time,  in  1709,  to 
thirteen  ducats  and  twenty  grana.     The  allotment  for  each 
flock  was  to   be  declared  in  November,  and   no  agreement 
to  be  for  a  longer  term  than  one   feafon.     The   fhepherds 
were  to  provide  themfelves  with  every  necelTary,  and  not 
to   have  a    power  of  felling    any  wool,  lambs,  cheefe,  or 
other  commodity   produced   during  their  winter  refidence, 
in   any   fair  but  that    ot   Foggia,  where   they   were   to   be 
depohted    in   the  royal   magazines,  and  not  touched  with- 
out a  permit.      By  way  or  compenfation,  no  wools  in   the 
kingdom   were  to    be    fuffered  to  be  brought   to  market, 
till  thofe  at  Foggia  were  vended,   the   duties  paid,  and   the 
tribunal  fatisfied  for  all  its  demands. 

This  Dcgana  is  one  of  the  richer!  mines  of  wealth  be- 
longing to  the  crown  of  Naples,  and  with  proper  economy 
is  capable  of  a  great  annual  increafe,  provided  no  epidemi- 

U  cal 


'43 


I44  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

cal  diftemper  attack  the  flocks.  Its  advantages  were  (o 
well  known  in  1500,  when  Lewis  and  Ferdinand  made  a 
partition  of  the  kingdom,  that  it  was  agreed  to  halve  the 
profits  between  them ;  and  when  the  French  attempted  to 
evade  this  contract,  by  flopping  the  fheep  and  cattle  at 
San  Severo,  before  they  reached  the  ufual  place  of  en- 
regiflering,  the  Spaniards  thought  themfelves  juflifiable  in 
attacking  the  French  tax-gatherers,  and  difperfing  both 
colle&ors  and  flocks.  Soon  after  its  inftitution,  the  Do- 
gana  cleared  feventy-two  thoufand  ducats.  In  1536,  one 
million  forty  eight  thoufand  three  hundred  and  ninety-fix 
fheep,  and  fourteen  thoufand  four  hundred  cattle,  pro- 
duced feventy-two  thoufand  two  hundred  and  fourteen 
ducats.  In  1080,  the  profits  were  one  hundred  fifty- 
five  thoufand  eight  hundred  and  fixty-three.  In  1700, 
they  amounted  to  two  hundred  feventy-two  thoufand 
and  feventy-feven.  In  1730,  the  tax  produced  two  hun- 
dred thirty-five  thoufand  and  feventy-two.  At  prefent, 
the  net  profit  arifing  to  the  King  from  the  letting  of  the 
pa-lures  is  about  forty  thoufand  ducats  ;  but,  with  the 
duties  upon  wool,  tallow,  6cc.  amounts  to  four  hundred 
thoufand.  The  produce  did  not  exceed  two  hundred  and 
eighty-one  thoufand  before  the  late  Governor,  the  Marquis 
Granito,  was  fent  thither  ;  and  all  the  increafe  is  owing  to 
his  talents  in  financiering.  Competent  judges  have  allured 
me,  it  would  be  no  difficult  matter  to  raife  it  to  half  a 
million  of  ducats. 

The 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  i4J 

The  commodities  of  Foggia  are  corn,  cheefe,  and  wool. 
The  wool  is  bought  up  by  the  French  and  other  foreigners ; 
and  therefore  but  a  fmall  advantage  accrues  to  the  pro- 
vince in  comparifon  with  what  it  might  reap,  were  the 
materials  employed  at  home.  With  judicious  management, 
this  country  might  carry  on  a  very  extenfive  trade,  and  at- 
tain the  profperity  intended  for  it  by  the  aU-bounteous 
views  of  Providence,  whofe  partiality  has  been  counteracted, 
as  much  as  poflible,   by  the  blunders  and  tyranny  of  man. 

In  the  famine  of  1764,  inftead  of  encouraging  the 
farmers  of  Puglia  to  throw  a  feafonable  fupply  of  corn  into 
Naples,  by  the  offer  of  a  good  price  and  fpeedy  payment, 
the  miniftry  fent  foldiers  into  the  province  to  take  it  by 
force,  and  drive  the  owners  before  them,  like  beafts  of 
burden,  laden  with  their  own  property.  Such  as  were  un- 
willing to  part  with  it  by  compulfion,  and  upon  fuch  hard 
terms,  carried  their  corn  up  into  the  hills  and  buried  it.  If 
any  were  detected  in  thefe  practices,  they  were  hanged. 

On  account  of  the  great  variety  of  field  fports  to  which 
the  adjacent  hills  and  plains  are  peculiarly  adapted,  this 
town  was  a  favourite  habitation  of  the  German  princes;  but 
(till  more  fo  of  their  enemy  Charles  the  Firft,  who  erected 
here  a  fumptuous  palace,  with  gardens  and  orchards,  in 
which  he  was  fo  curious,  as  to  keep  a  lift  of  all  the  fruit- 
trees  planted  in  them.  Here  he  died  on  the  feventh  of 
January,  1285,  as  he  was  on  his  way  to  Brindili,  to  haften 
an  armament  againft  Sicily.     Charles  was  long  accounted, 

U  2  with 


146  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

with  reafon,  the  mofl  fortunate  of  men ;  but  the  lafl:  years 
of  his  life  were  darkened  with  fuch  a  cloud  of  difafters,  as 
rank  him  among  the  molt  miferable.  They  broke  his 
proud  heart,  and  caufed  him  to  exclaim,  in  the  bitternefs  of 
his  foul,  "  O  God  !  thou  who  haft  carried  me  up  to  the 
<{  pinnacle  of  glory  and  profperity,  withdraw  not  thy.  hand  ! 
"  or  if  I  am  to  be  precipitated,  let  not  my  fall  be  fo  rapid 
"  and  headlong,  but  humble  me  by  degrees !" — A  fever 
put  an  end  to  his  anguifh,  but  not  without  fome  fufpicions 
of  his  having  haftened  his  death  by  laying  violent  hands 
upon  himfelf.  This  fovereign  was  endowed  with  great 
qualities,  overbalanced  by  moft  crying  vices.  In  his  perfon 
he  was  tall  and  robuft  ;  a  dark  complexion,  and  prominent 
nofe,  gave  his  countenance  an  air  of  ferocious  majefty. 
Undaunted  courage,  profound  knowledge  of  the  military 
art,  inviolable  attachment  to  his  word,  unbounded  genero- 
iity,  watchful nefs  and  patience  under  fatigue,  form  the 
outlines  of  his  portrait  on  the  fair  fide,  and  juftify  the  title 
given  him  by  his  rival  Don  Pedro,  King  of  Aragon,  of  the 
Mejor  caballero  del  mundo.  But  if  we  turn  the  canvas,  we 
(ball  behold  a  man  four  and  gloomy  in  his  difpofition,  un- 
bridled in  his  paflions,  unjuft  in  his  purfuits,  devoured  by 
ambition,  rapacious  in  the  acquifition  of  wealth,  vindictive, 
bloody,  and  fteeled  againft  every  fentiment  of  humanity  : 
in  one  word,  a  great  bad  prince,  mean  enough  to  treat 
with  indignity  the  mangled  remains  of  the  gallant  Manfred, 
and  juridically  to  murder  the  innocent  Conradine,  whofe 

tender 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  i47 

tender  years  and  amiable  faculties  would  have  excited  pity 
in  almoft  any  other  breaft. 

We  were  for  fome  time  at  a  lofs  for  lodgings,  as  all  the 
inns,  which  are  but  forry  places  of  accommodation,  were 
occupied  by  people  drawn  hither  by  the  approaching  Fair. 
On  this  occafion  Foggia  becomes  a  place  of  great  refort  and 
gaiety,  even  for  the  Neapolitan  nobility.  They  come  hither 
to  exercife  their  dexterity  at  play  upon  the  purfes  of  the  lefs 
expert,  country  gentlemen,  whom  they  'commonly  fend 
home  dripped  of  the  favings  of  a  whole  year.  This  paflion 
for  gaming  rages  with  wonderful  violence  over  all  the  king- 
dom, and  is  a  plague  that  never  dies,  though  it  may  inter- 
mit, nor  is  there  any  lazaretto  to  check  its  progrefs. 


SECTION     XVIII. 

f~\  U  R  next  fiage  was  to  Manfredonia,  twenty  miles 
through  a  flat  pafture  covered  with  afphodels,  thiftles, 
wild  artichokes,  and  fennel-giant;  of  the  laft  are  made 
bee-hives  and  chair-bottoms :  the  leaves  are  given  to  afles, 
by  way  of  a  ftrengthener,  and  the  tender  buds  are  boiled 
and  eaten  as  a  delicacy  by  the  peafants.  This  plant  covers 
half  the  plain,  and  rifes  to  fuch  a  height,  that  there  is  an 
inftance,  in  one  of  the  wars  between  France  and  Spain,  of 
the  Spaniards  having  marched  through  it  undifcovered  clofe 

7  .       UP 


S48  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

up  to  the  French  entrenchments.  The  artichokes  are  given 
to  buffaloes. 

A  few  miles  from  Foggia  are  fome  faint  traces  of  walls 
faid  to  be  thofe  of  Arpi  or  Argyripae,  once  the  capital 
of  a  kingdom  founded  by  Diomed  after  the  fiege  of  Troy. 
The  ftory  of  this  hero  was  univerfally  admitted  by  the 
ancients,  and  adopted  by  Virgil : 

Ille  urbem  Argyripam,  patriae  cognomine  gentis, 

Vidtor  Gargani  condebat  Japygis  arvis*.  iENEiD.  lib.  IX. 

The  coins  f  of  this  city,  which  are  of  Greek  type,  are  not 
very  rare  :  they  ufually  bear  the  imprefTion  of  a  wild  boar, 
perhaps  an  allufion  to  that  of  Calydon,  the  place  their 
founder  came  from. 

On  the  left  lies  AprocinaJ,  a  poor  ruinous  hamlet,  that 
owes  its  origin  to  a  frolic  of  the  Emperor  Frederick. 
He  was  paflionately  fond  of  the  chace,  and  happened  one 
day  to  kill  a  wild  boar  of  extraordinary  magnitude  upon  this 
very  fpot.     He  had  it  immediately  cut  up  and  drefled,  and 

*  "  Being  victorious,  he  built,  in  the  fields  of  the  Japygian  Garganus,  a 
"  city,  and  called  it  Argyripa,  from  the  name  of  his  native  country." 

j-  Nummi  Arpanorum. 
AUR.   i.  Caput  Cereris.  fpica.  APnANnN.=Equus.  ftella  et  luna,  AAEOY. 
ARC   i.  Cap.  galeat.=:Tres  fpica:.  APnA. 

2.  Cap.  Cereris  diota.:=Equus.  galea,  ftella  AAEOT. 
iER.   i.  Cap.  Jovis.  fulmen.  AAEOT  =Aper  currens.  hafta  APnANjQN. 

2.  Equus  APnANOT.=Taurus  nOTAAI. 

3.  Fquus.  APnANXiN.=Taurus  AAEOT. 

4.  Spica.=:Aper. 

J  Zannoni  marks  this  place  among  the  mountains  of  Garganus ;  but  the 
Chronicle  fays  exprefsly  it  was  in  the  plain. 

fat 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  149 

fat  down  with  his  company  to  fup  upon  the  noble  game. 
The  flow  of  fpirits,  infpired  by  the  fuccefs  of  the  day,  and 
heightened  by  wine  and  good  fellowship,  made  him  wifh  to 
perpetuate  the  remembrance  of  his  convivial  pleafures  by 
erecting  a  palace  here,  which  he  called  Apricena,  from  the 
two  Latin  words  that  fignify  a  wild  boar,  and  fupper.  In- 
habitants gathered  round  the  imperial  refidence,  and  formed 
a  fmall  town,  which  flouriftied  and  fell  with  the  fortunes  of 
the  houfe  of  Swabia. 

On  our  approach  to  the  fea,  we  came  to  a  more  barren 
foil,  a  mere  heap  of  pebbles,  except  fome  fmall  patches, 
where  labour  and  perfeverance  have  forced  vines  and  corn 
to  grow.  A  mile  from  the  more  flood  the  city  of  Sipon- 
tum,  of  which,  except  a  part  of  its  Gothic  cathedral,  fcarce 
one  ftone  remains  upon  another. 

Diomed  is  fuppofed  by  Strabo  to  have  been  the  founder 
of  this  piace,  called  by  the  Greeks  EHniOTNTOE,  from  the 
great  quantity  of  cuttle  fifri  that  are  caft  up  on  the  coaft. 
In  the  early  ages  of  Chriftian  hierarchy,  a  bifhop  was  fixed 
in  this  church  ;  but,  under  the  Lombards,  his  fee  was 
united  to  that  of  Beneventum.  Being  again  feparated, 
Sipontum  became  an  archi^pifcopal  diocefe  in  1094,  about 
which  time  it  was  fo  ill  treated  by  the  Barbarians,  that  it 
never  recovered  its  fplendcur,  but  funk  into  fuch  mifery, 
that  in  1260,  it  was  a  n.ere  defert,  from  ilie  want  of  inha- 
bitants, the  decay  of  commerce,  and  the  infalubrity  of  the 
air.  Manfred  having  taken  thefe  cii  cum  (lances  into  confi- 
3  deration. 


i5<3  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

deration,  began  in  1261  to  build  a  new  city  on  the  fea- 
fhore,  to  which  he  removed  the  kw  remaining  Sipontines. 
His  colony  was  named  Manfredonia,  and  people  were  encou- 
raged to  fettle  in  it  by  many  effential  privileges  and  exemptions. 
In  order  to  found  it  under  the  mod  favourable  aufpices,  he 
called  together  all  the  famous  profefTors  of  aftrology  (a 
fcience  in  which  both  he  and  his  father  placed  great  confi- 
dence), and  caufed  them  to  calculate  the  happieft  hour  and 
minute  for  laying  the  firft  ftone.  He  himfelf  drew  the 
plans,  traced  the  walls  and  ftreets,  fuperintended  the  works, 
and  by  his  prefence  and  largeffes  animated  the  workmen  to 
finifli  them  in  a  very  fhort  fpace  of  time.  The  port  was 
fecured  from  ftorms  by  a  pier,  the  ramparts  were  built  of 
the  mod  folid  materials,  and  in  the  great  tower  was  placed 
a  bell  of  fo  confiderable  a  volume  as  to  be  heard  over  all  the 
plain  of  Capitanata,  in  order  to  alarm  the  country  in  cafe 
of  an  invafion.  Charles  of  Anjou  afterwards  removed 
the  bell  to  Ban,  and  offered  it  at  the  fhrine  of  Saint 
Nicholas,  as  a  thankfgiving  for  the  recovery  of  one  of  his 
children. 

In  fpite  of  all  the  precautions  taken  by  Manfred  to  fecure 
a  brilliant  deftiny  to  his  new  city,  neither  his  pains,  nor  the 
horofcopes  of  his  wizard?,  have  been  able  to  render  it  opulent 
or  powerful.  At  prefent,  it  fcarce  mutters  fix  thoufand 
inhabitants,  though  nioffc  of  the  corn  exported  from  the 
province  is  fhipped  off  here,  and  a  direct  trade  carried  on 
with  Venice  and  Greece,  for  which  reafon  there  is  a  laza- 
retto 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  151 

retto  eftablimed  ;  but  from  fome  late  inftances  we  may 
gather,  that  if  the  kingdom  of  Naples  has  for  many  years 
part:  remained  free  from  the  plague,  it  is  more  owing  to 
good  luck,  and  the  very  trifling  communication  with  Turkey, 
than  to  the  vigilance  or  incorruptibility  of  the  officers  of 
this  port. 

In  1620,  the  Turks  landed  and  pillaged  Manfredonia. 

All  forts  of  vegetables  abound  here,  for  flavour  and  fuo- 
culency  infinitely  fuperior  to  thofe  raifed  by  continual 
waterings  in  the  cineritious  foil  of  Naples ;  lettuce  in  par- 
ticular is  delicious ;  fidi  plentiful  and  cheap ;  the  rocky 
fhore  covered  with  ffiell-fim,  alga,  and  balls  called  pila 
marina^  which  are  nothing  more  than  a  conglomeration  of 
the  finer  fibres  of  fubmarine  roots  detached  from  their 
plants,  and  rolled  up  by  the  undulating  motion  of  the 
water ;  of  thefe  fibres  a  delicate  paper  has  been  obtained  by 
an  experimental  phiioiopher,  whofc  ftudies  in  natural  hiftory 
are  always  dire&ed  by  patriotic  views,  and  the  hope  of  ftrike- 
ing  out  difcoveries  of  public  utility. 

April  the  nineteenth,  we  rode  along  the  more  to  the 
north-eafr,  for  three  miles,  through  a  well  cultivated  tract 
of  good  land,  till  we  arrived  at  the  foot  of  Mount  Garganus. 
This  ridge  of  mountains,  almofr.  entirely  compofed  of  breccia, 
forms  a  very  large  promontory  advancing  into  the  Adriatic 
fea,  and  feparated  from  the  Apennines  on  the  weft  by  the 
plains  of  Lucera  and  San  Sevcro.  Moft  geographers  make 
it  a  continuation  of  the  great  chain  of  mountains  that  runs 

X  down 


,p  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

down  the  middle  of  Italy,  but  in  this  point,  as  well  as  in 
many  others  concerning  thefe  provinces,  I  have  had  oppor- 
tunities of  difcovering  errors  in  the   beft  maps ;   nor  am  I 
acquainted  with  one  that  can  be  implicitly  relied  upon  with 
regard  to  the  Neapolitan  dominions.     Few  perfons  travel  to 
make  obfervations  on  the  fpot,  and  therefore  moft  of  them 
are  under  the   neceflity  of  adopting  the  miftakes  of  their 
predeceffors,    as  they  have  no  means  of  coming  at  better 
information.    The  four-meet  map  of  the  kingdom  of  Naples, 
drawn   at  Paris  by  Zannoni,    under    the   direction  of   the 
counfellor   Abbate  Galiani,  is  certainly  the  beft  and  moft 
ample  of  any  yet  publifhed  ;  but  as  it  was  put  together  from 
memory,   combination    of  different   obfervations,    and  old 
maps,   it  is  not  furprifing  that  it  fhould  not  be  exempt  from 
errors*.      It  is  to  be  lamented,   that  with  fuch  a  numerous 
body  of  engineers  in  times  of  profound  peace,  the  Neapolitan 
miniftry  mould  not  employ   a  few  of  them  in  the  ufeful 
tafk  of  making  topographical   and   marine  charts  of  their 
own  country  and  coafts.     The  public  fpirit  of  a  Dominican 
friar  -f,  who,    at  his  own  rifk  and  expence,  has  caufed  the 
whole  extent  of  coaft  from  Reggio  to  Naples  to  be  drawn 
and  engraved,  fhould  methinks  excite  the   emulation,  and 
pique  the  pride,  of  thofe  that  prefide  over  the  affairs  of  this 
realm. 

*  Zannoni  has  lately  been  prevailed  upon  to  come  to  Naples,  and  is 
actually  employed  in  furveying  the  kingdom.  We  may,  therefore,  expect  a 
better  map  of  the  Two  Sicilies, 

f  F,  Antonio  Minafi. 

4  For 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  ^  j 

For  more  than  an  hour  we  climbed  up  a  very  rugged 
rocky  path,  through  thickets  of  pine,  juniper,  cyftus,  len- 
tifcus,  and  other  ftrong  fcented  plants;  at  length  we 
reached  the  top  of  the  mountain  that  overhangs  the  bay  of 
Manfredonia,  and  arrived  at  the  dirty  ill  built  city  of  Sant* 
Angiolo,  which  contains  about  fix  thoufand  favage- looking 
inhabitants.  We  were  accommodated  with  lodgings  at  the 
Carmelite  friars,  who  very  politely  procured  us  refrefhments 
in  great  abundance ;  we  found  the  flavour  of  their  mutton 
exquifite,  and  were  told  that  meat  of  all  kinds  was  equally 
delicate  in  this  diftricl:. 

After  dinner  one  of  the  friars  conducted  us  to  the  fane- 
tuary,  which  is  a  cavern  in  the  face  of  the  rock  ;  a  grove  of 
aged  trees  overfhades  the  approach,  and  on  their  boughs  are 
flung  flat  ftones  drilled  through,  and  hung  up  by  the 
pilgrims,  either  as  proofs  of  their  having  fulfilled  their  vow, 
^or  in  confequence  of  fome  whimfy  of  devotion,  as  the  Pagans 
ufed  to  fufpend  little  mafks  or  images  on  the  branches  of 
trees  in  honour  of  Bacchus. 

Ofcilla  ex  alta  fufpendunt  mollia  pinu  *.  Virg.  Geor.  2. 

Through  a  gothic  porch  we  were  led  down  a  flight  of  fifty- 
five  fteps  of  coarfe-grained  marble,  on  which  votaries  have 
traced  the  outlines  of  their  hands  and  feet.  At  the  bottom, 
we  pafTed  into  a  damp  gloomy  grotto,  the  chapel  of  the 
Archangel  Michael ;  his  ftatue  is  of  the  common  foft  ftone 

•  **  They  hang  waxen  mafks  upon  the  lofty  pine." 

X    2  Of 


1^4  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

of  the  country,  and,   with  all  the  reft  of  the  decorations, 
below  criticifm. 

The  hiftory  of  this  church  is  as  follows :  In  the  days  of 
Pope  Gelafius  the  Firft,  about  the  year  491,  St.  Michael  is 
faid  to  have  appeared  to  one  Laurence  in  the  caverns  of 
Mount  Garganus,  and  to  have  fuggefted  to  him  meafures 
for  obtaining  a  complete  victory  over  the  enemies  of  his 
country,  and  delivering  Sipontum,  then  beleaguered  by  the 
barbarians.  The  viiion  made  a  great  noife  in  the  Chriftian 
world,  and  foon  gained  fuch  credit  with  the  pious  part  of 
it,  that  altars  and  churches  were  erected  in  numberlefs  places 
in  honour  of  this  Generalifiimo  of  the  celeftial  hoft;  but 
none  was  reforted  to  with  fo  much  fervour,  none  fo  enriched 
with  the  prefents  of  the  faithful,  as  the  chapel  confecrated 
upon  the  identical  fpot  where  the  fpirit  was  faid  to  have 
flood.  The  riches  lavifhed  upon  it  by  the  Greeks  allured 
the  Lombards,  who  took  the  town  and  ftripped  it  of  all  its 
treafures.  In  1460,  Ferdinand  the  Firft  flormed  this  place 
(the  inhabitants  of  which  had  joined  his  adverfaries),  and 
plundered  the  church  of  an  incredible  ftore  of  wealth  be- 
longing to  the  fanctuary,  or  to  the  rebels  of  the  neighbour- 
hood, who  had  depofited  their  valuable  property  here,  as  in 
a  place  of  inviolable  fecurity.  The  King  carried  it  off,  and 
coined  the  {ilver  into  crown  pieces  of  St.  Angelo,  which,  on 
one  fide,  bore  his  image,  and  on  the  reverfe,  that  of  Su 
Michael,  with  the  legend  Justa  tuenda.  Pontanus,  his 
fecretary,    who  muft    be    allowed    to  be  good  authority,. 

though,, 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  15; 

though,  from  the  known  character  of  the  Prince,  the  fact 
is  rather  improbable,  afTures  us,  that  at  the  peace  every- 
thing was  reftored  to  the  chapel  exa&ly  in  the  fame  form 
and  to  the  fame  amount.  Since  that  epocha,  this  fancluary 
has  been  little  talked  of  beyond  the  circuit  of  a  few  miles, 
and  only  pilgrims  of  a  mean  rank  now  frequent  Monte  St. 
Angelo;  for  great  and  munificent  votaries  have  for  thefe  two 
laft  centuries  flocked  to  Loretto. 

In  the  firft  partition  of  the  Norman  conquefts,  Garganus 
and  Sipontum  were  afligned  to  Ranulph  of  Averfa.  Joan 
of  England,  wife  to  William  the  Good,  had  this  manor 
fettled  on  her  as  a  jointure,  and  afterwards  it  formed  part  of 
Manfred's  appanage. 

It  was  beftowed  upon  the  famous  Scanderbeg  by  Fer- 
dinand the  Firft,  and  at  prefent  belongs  to  Grimaldi  Prince 
of  Gerace. 

Next  morning  we  took  a  pleafant  ride  into  the  heart  of 
the  mountains,  through  fhady  dells  and  noble  woods,  which 
brought  to  our  minds  the  venerable  groves  that  in  ancient 
times  bent  with  the  loud  winds  fweeping  along  the  rugged 
fides  of  Garganus,  There  is  flill  a  refpe&able  foreft  of 
evergreen  and  common  oak,  pitch  pine,  horn  beam,  chef- 
nut  and  manna-afh ;  flill 

* Aquilonibus 


Querceta  Gargani  laborantr 

Et  foliis  viduantur  orni. Hor. 

*  The  oak  woods  of  Garganus  groan  beneath  the  northern  blafls,  and  the 
aOies  are  (tripped  of  their  leaves  by  the  tempeft. 

The 


j36  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

The  meltered  vallies  are  induftrioufly  cultivated,  and  feem 
to  be  bleft  with  an  excellent  foil,  and  luxuriant  vegetation; 
the  grafs  is  fhort  and  fine. 

After  a  delightful  wandering  excurfion,  we  fat  down  to 
dinner  on  the  mofs  by  the  fide  of  a  clear  brook  that  tumbles 
down  the  rocks,  and  lofes  itfelf  among  the  bu flies  f.  Our 
repair,  finifhed,  we  returned  to  St.  Angelo,  and  next  morn- 
ing crofTed  the  plain  to  Lucera,  which  (lands  on  a  knoll 
detached  from  the  Apennine,  commanding  an  almoif. 
boundlefs  view  of  fea  and  land. 

f  Not  many  miles  north  of  this  place  is  Ifchitella,  a  town,  that  in  1676, 
gave  birth  to  Peter  Giannone,  the  moil  celebrated  writer  of  Neapolitan 
hiftory.  He  was  an  advocate  at  Naples,  and  intended  his  work  rather  as  a 
diflertation  on  the  laws  and  civil  tranfactions  of  his  country,  than  as  a  chronicle 
of  its  wars  and  revolutions  •,  but  even,  according  to  this  plan,  it  is  imperfect 
in  the  execution,  for  he  pafTes  over  many  capital  points  in  filence,  or  at  bed, 
touches  upon  them  in  a  very  fuperfkial  manner  :  he  too  frequently  tranfcribes 
the  words  of  other  authors,  and,  from  a  want  of  recourfe  to  original  documents, 
decides  without  warrantable  authority.  His  reputation  arofe  from  the  vigor- 
ous attack  he  made  upon  ecclefiaftical  power ;  and  he  is  fuppofed  to  have 
been  the  firfl:  that  freed  the  Neapolitans  from  the  flavifh  terrors,  with  which 
the  menaces  of  Rome  had  for  fo  many  ages  imprefTed  their  minds.  The  fuccefs 
of  his  book  roufed  the  Pope's  partifans,  who  foon  contrived  to  render  him 
an  object  of  execration,  and  an  exile.  He  dragged  on  a  life  of  poverty  and 
mifery  for  many  years,  and  was  at  laft  fliamefully  decoyed  into  Savoy,  and 
thrown  into  prifon  by  the  King  of  Sardinia,  who  having  then  in  view  a 
treaty  with  the  court  of  Rome,  hoped  to  carry  his  point  by  this  unjuft  treat- 
ment of  a  man,  over  whom  he  could  not  poflibly  pretend  any  dominion. 
Giannone  died  in  1748,  after  thirteen  years  captivity. 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  i57 


SECTION     XIX. 

npHE  origin  and  etymology  of  Lucera  are  equally  matter 
of  conjecture  ;  its  antiquity  and  former  importance  are 
proved  by  the  teftimony  of  many  hiftorians.  It  was  a  city 
of  the  Daunians,  and  an  ally  of  the  Romans,  who  efteemed 
it  a  place  of  the  utmoft  confequence  to  their  views  of 
aggrandifement.  In  the  year  of  Rome  433,  the  confuls  T. 
Veturius  Calvinus  and  Spurius  Pofthumius,  were  marching 
from  Campania  to  its  relief,  when  they  were  circumvented 
and  made  prifoners  by  the  Samnites  in  the  defile  of  Cau- 
dium.  The  epithet  noble  *,  beftowed  upon  it  by  Horace, 
can  allude  only  to  its  antiquity,  for  Strabo  fays  it  was  much 
decayed  in  the  Auguftan  age ;  the  only  remnant  of  Roman 
building  is  a  tower  in  the  centre  of  the  caftle.  The  coins 
of  Luceria  are  in  moft  cabinets  f. 

In  663,  Lucera  was  facked  by  Conftans  the  Second,  and 
lay  in  ruins  till  Frederick  the  Second  conceived  an  affection 

*  Telanse  prope  nobilem 
Tonfas  Luceriam. 

f  Nummi  Lucerinorum. 
MR.  I.  Cap.    Herculis    imb.   pelle  leonina    teftumrrClava,  pharecra   ec 
arcus  Lovceri. 

2.  Cap.  Pallad.  gal.=:Rota  ofto  radiorum  Lovceri. 

3.  Cap.  imb.  laur.  2  glob.  zzCap.  bov.  Lovceri. 

4.  Cap.  barb.  laur.  3  glob.^Delphin  Lovceri. 

5.  Cap.  mul.  velat.  laur.  2  glob.  =;Concha  Lovceri, 

for 


158  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

for  it,  and  ere&ed  on  one  of  its  hills  a  fpacious  Gothic 
fortrefs  ftill  exifting.  He  foon  after  tranfported  hither  the 
Saracens  of  Sicily  to  remove  them  from  the  dangerous  neigh- 
bourhood of  Africa,  and  break  their  pernicious  connexions 
with  that  continent.  Under  the  protection  of  the  Swabian 
kings,  their  numbers  increafed  to  fixty  thoufand  ;  their  info- 
lence  role  in  proportion  to  their  numbers,  and  from  Lucera, 
as  from  a  den,  they  rufhed  forth  into  the  plains,  where  they 
exeicifed  all  forts  of  violence  upon  the  inhabitants ;  the 
hiftories  of  thofe  times  abound  with  traits  of  their  cruelty, 
perhaps  a  little  exaggerated  on  account  of  the  inviolable 
attachment  which  thefe  MufTulmen  profefTed  and  maintained 
towards  the  houfe  of  Swabia,  a  mod  odious  and  unpardon- 
able crime  in  the  eyes  of  the  fucceeding  princes  and  their 
partifuns.  Spinelli*  tells  us  of  one  Phocax,  a  Saracen  cap- 
tain, who  being  in  love  with  the  wife  of  Simon  Rocca  of 
Trani,  broke  into  his  houfe  by  night,   turned  him  out  of 

*  Matthew  Spinelli,  a  gentleman  of  Giovenazzo,  wrote  a  journal  of 
events  that  happened,  in  his  time,  under  the  three  laft  Swabian  and  the 
firft  An°evine  princes.  We  have  his  work  both  in  Latin  and  Italiin: 
Muratori  and  others  try  to  perfuade  us,  that  the  latter  is  the  original ;  but 
the  language  is  fo  widely  different  from  the  modern  Puglian  dialect,  and 
from  any  idiom  we  can  iuppofe  in  ufe  there  five  hundred  years  ago,  that  it  is 
quite  abfurd  to  think  Spinelli  wrote  it  as  the  language  now  ftands  :  either  the 
Latin  is  the  original,  or  the  prefent  Italian  is  a  tranflation  of  the  ancient 
Puglian  copy.  There  are  fome  anachroniims  and  interpolations  in  this  very 
curious  diary  ;  but  the  former  arife  from  the  old  Puglian  method  of  begin- 
ning the  year  in  September,  and  the  blame  of  the  latter  may  be  laid  upon 
the'eopifts,  who  had  a  political  intereft  in  falfifying  the  text.  This  is  a  fhort 
and  valuable  work,  relating  with  (implicity  the  tranlaftions  of  the  times,  and 
throwing  great  light  upon  the  characters  of  many  principal  perfonages  of  that 
»uiy  period, 

2  his 


JOURNEV    TO    TARANTO.  15* 

his  bed,  and  took  pofTeffion  of  his  place  :  a  complaint  of  this 
outrage  was  lodged  before  the  Emperor;  but  he  treated  it 
lightly,  and  anfwered,  that  where  there  was  compulsion, 
there  could  be  no  difhonour.  If  the  Infidels  were  licentious, 
we  learn  from  the  fame  chronicles,  that  the  Chriftians  were 
not  behind  hand  in  revenge. 

After  the  battle  of  Benevento,  where  the  Saracens 
fignalized  their  fidelity,  and  acquitted  themfelves  with 
honour  of  the  laft  duty  to  their  benefactor  Manfred,  they 
were  obliged  to  fubmit  to  the  conqueror.  In  1300,  Charles 
the  Second,  aware  of  the  danger  of  fuffering  them  to  remain 
any  longer  in  the  heart  of  his  kingdom,  and  zealous  to  re- 
eftablifh  the  worfhip  of  Chrift  in  a  place,  where  it  had  been 
for  fo  many  years  treated  with  indignity,  iffued  an  edict,  by 
which  all  Mahometan?,  refident  in  his  dominions,  were  to 
embrace  the  Chriftian  relipion,  or  be  liable  to  be  killed  with 
impunity  wherever  they  fhould  be  found.  Mod  of  them 
fled  beyond  fea,  and  Charles  reftored  Lucera  to  the  Chriftians, 
built  a  magnificent  cathedral,  caufed  a  bifhop  and  chapter, 
with  ample  revenues,  to  be  appointed,  and  endeavoured  to 
obliterate  even  the  memory  of  all  pafl:  abominations  by 
abolifhing  the  ancient  name,  in  lieu  of  which  he  fubftituted 
that  of  Santa  Maria ;  but  it  happened  here,  as  at  Man- 
fredonia,  which  his  father  had  new  named,  the  old  deno- 
mination prevailed. 

Jn  1590,  Mark  Sciarra,  a  captain  of  banditti,  furprized 
and  plundered  this  city.     The  bifhop,  who  had  taken  re- 

Y  fuge 


«6o  JOURNEY     TO     TARANTO. 

fuge  in  the  fteeple  of  his  cathedral,  was  fhot  at  the  window, 
as  he  was  peeping  out  to  watch  the  motions  of  the  robbers. 
The  tribunal  of  the  Prefident  of  Capitanata  and  Molife, 
and  an  annual  fair  in  November,  are  at  prefent  the  chief 
fupport  of  the  town. 

From  the  walls,  Ferentino  or  Cartel florentino  was  pointed 
out  to  us  about  fix  miles  to  the  north.      It  is  now  a  ruinous 
hamlet,  but  was  once  an  epifcopal  city,  and  remarkable  for 
being  the  place  where  the   Emperor  Frederick  the  Second 
breathed  his  laft.     To  form  a  juft  character  of  this  monarch, 
it  is  neceffary  to  fteer  a  middle  courfe  between  the  invectives 
of  ecclefiaftical  writers,  and  the  eulogies  of  the  Ghibellines. 
It  is  from  a  comparative  review  of  the  great  events  of  his 
reign  that  I  fhall  fketch  the  outlines  of  his  portrait.      He  was 
a  warrior  of  confummate  prudence  and  undoubted  courage, 
by  the  help  of  which  he  weathered   the  florms  of  half  a 
century.      In  profperity  he  was  not  elated  ;   adverfity  did  not 
deprefs  his   fpirit ;   born   at  an  unhappy  period,    when  the 
popes  were  (Training  every  finew  to  attain  temporal  as  well 
as  fpiritual  defpotilm,   when  the  empire  was  exerting  its  laft 
efforts  to  check  the  growing  power  of   Rome,  and  preferve 
a  footing  in  Italy,   Frederick  was   early  involved  in  difpules 
with  the  Guelph  faction,   which  continued  with  very  little 
intermiiTion  during  his  whole  life.      In  the  courfe  of  thefe 
diilurbances,   all  fentiments  of  relpect  for  the  triple  crown, 
which  he  always  found  on  the  head  of  his  inoft  inveterate 
enemy,  vanifhed  from  his  bread,  and,  when  once  they  dif- 

appeared, 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  161 

appeared,  it  was  natural  he  mould  confound  the  principles 
of  the  religion  with  thofe  of  its  chief;  from  hating  the 
pontiff  he  came  to  defpife  the  faith;  fentiments  enforced  by- 
Frederick's  ftyle  of  life  and  ftudy  :  he  was  the  moil  learned 
fovereign  of  the  age,  a  poet,  and  author  of  fome  treatifes  on 
veterinarian  fubjecls,  the  raoft  fashionable  a  prince  could 
employ  his  talents  upon  ;  he  founded  academies,  protected 
men  of  letters,  inftituted  good  laws,  and  proved  himfelf  a 
ftrict  obferver  of  juftice  ;  but  cruel  and  vindictive  in  the  in- 
fliction of  its  penalties.  He  was  a  dupe  to  judiciary  afcro- 
logy,  abandoned  to  fenfual  pleafures,  and,  notwithstanding 
all  Giannone  fays  in  his  defence,  a  latitudinarian  in  his 
religious  opinions.  He  is  faid  to  have  obferved  with  a  fneer, 
as  he  marched  through  the  Holy  Land,  that  if  the  God  of 
the  Hebrews  had  ever  feen  the  Terra  di  Lavoro,  he  would 
not  have  fet  fuch  a  value  upon  his  land  of  promife. 

From  Lucera,  we  continued  our  journey  fouthward  to  La 
Cerignuola,  through  an  immenfe  flat  watered  by  the  Cara- 
pelle  and  the  Cervaro ;  the  firfr.  of  thefe  torrents  is  the 
Daunus,  from  which  the  whole  country  derived  its  ancient 
name.  On  the  north-eaft  our  horizon  was  bounded  by  the 
fea,  on  the  north  by  Monte  St.  Angelo ;  the  Apennine  runs 
along  the  weftern  fide  as  far  as  the  eye  can  difcover ;  between 
it  and  the  fea,  the  infulated  ridge  of  Canofa  erodes  the  plain, 
and  clofes  the  view  to  the  fouth.  As  the  weather  was  dry, 
we  found  the  road  tolerably  good ;  but  in  winter  it  muft  be 
impaffable.     From  the  warmth  I  felt,   I  conceived  an  idea 

Y  2  of 


i6z  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

of  the  excefTive  power  of  the  fummer  fun  in  thefe  low  lands, 
where  neither  fhade  nor  fhelter  is  to  be  found  for  many 
miles ;  there  is  then  no  breathing  in  them  through  intenfe- 
nefs  of  heat  and  want  of  ventilation.  Horace,  who  was 
well  acquainted  with  all  the  qualities  of  his  native  country, 
has  more  than  once  made  mention  of  parched-up  Puglia*, 
and  in  modern  language,  the  following  adage  is  not  lefs  ex- 
preffive  of  the  idea  the  Pugliefe  themfelves  have  of  its  infuf- 
ferable  fummer  weather: 

Le  pene  fi  fofTrifcon  dell'  inferno 
L'eftate  in  Puglia,  all'  Aquila  finverno  f . 

We  met  crowds  of  people  returning  from  the  feafr.  or 
wake  of  1'Incoronatar  this  is  an  image  of  the  Madonna  iound 
in  a  tree,  and  held  in  great  veneration.  They  were  all  gay 
and  frolickfome,  efpeeially  the  women,  who  feemed 
mightily  pleafed  with  the  day's  diversion.  At  the  place 
where  this  feftival  is  kept,  was  formerly  a  hunting  feat  of 
Manfred.  In  1265,  being  defirous  of  ftrengthening  his 
doubtful  title  by  popularity,  he  fummoned  a  general  court 
of  his  barons,  at  Foggia,  and  made  a  grand  hunting  match 
in  the  forefl:  of  Incoronata,   to  which  above  one  thoufand 


*  iEduofe  grata  Calabria  armenta- 
Pauper  aquas  Daunus 


Perufta  folibus  uxor  Appuli— — — • 

Siticulofas  Apulia? • 

f  "  The  pains  of  hell  are  felt  in  Puglia  during  the  fummer,  and  at  Aquila, 
0  during  the  winter." 


o 


fi 


ve 


JOURNEYTOTARANTO.  163 

five  hundred  perfons  of  consideration  were  invited.  After 
the  chace,  the  fpoil  was  divided  among  the  company,  and 
the  hunting  of  that  day  remained  long  memorable  in  Puglia 
for  the  concourfe  of  nobility,  the  great  quantity  of  game 
taken,  and  the  magnihcen.ee  of  the  King,  who  fuffered 
none  to  depart  without  fome  token  of  his  generofity.  Al- 
phonfus  the  Firft  inclofed  eighteen  miles  of  this  country 
with  toils,  and  took  fo  many  flags,  that,  befides  what  was 
carried  away  by  the  hunters,  he  fent  four  hundred  head  to 
be  faked  for  the  ufe  of  the  garrifons  of  Trani  and  Barletta. 
In  later  times,  Puglia  continued  to  be  remarkable  for 
abundance  of  deer.  We  have  the  authority  of  Pontanus,  an 
eye-witnefs,  for  a  very  extraordinary  proof  of  their  num- 
bers ;  he  informs  us,  that  his  mafter  King  Ferdinand  hav- 
ing marched  out  of  Barletta  before  daybreak  with  a  view  of 
furprizing  his  enemies,  was  flopped  by  the  appearance  of  a 
cloud  of  dull:  rifing  in  the  plain  from  a  great  crowd  in 
motion  ;  on  the  report  of  the  advanced  parties,  he  thought 
it  prudent  to  return  to  his  camp,  left  his  retreat  fhould  be 
cut  off  by  that  body  of  troops  which  feemed  to  move  with 
prodigious  rapidity.  As  foon  as  the  fun  rofe,  this  formidable 
hoft  was  difcovered  to  be  a  herd  of  flags.  The  fame  author 
tells  us,  that  fome  years  before,  Sforza,  the  mod  experi- 
enced general  of  the  age,  had  been  deceived  in  like  manner, 
fo  as  to  draw  up  his  forces  to  receive  the  charge.  At  prcfent,. 
game  is  not  wanting,  though  kings  now  feldom  drive  it. 
acrofs  thefe  plains i  or  by  their  refidence  on  the  royal  chace^ 

contribute 


1 64  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

contribute  to  its  prefervation  and  increafe.  It  appears  rather 
paradoxical,  that  however  eager,  expert,  and  indefatigable,  a 
prince  may  be  in  the  chace,  yet  wild  beafts,  and  game  of  all 
forts,  mall  flock  round  him  and  multiply  near  his  palace  ; 
they  feem  fafcinated  and  hurried  by  an  irrefiftible  itiftinci: 
towards  this  royal  butchery.  But  the  concourfe  is  eafily 
accounted  for,  when  we  confider  the  impunity  with  which 
they  ravage  the  hopes  of  the  hufbandman,  and  the  undif- 
turbed  fecurity  they  enjoy  under  the  protection  of  the  foreft 
laws  during  their  feafons  of  pairing,  producing,  and  nurfmg 
their  progeny. 

The  Puglian  fportfmen  run  down  hares  with  greyhounds, 
and  purfue  the  wild  boar  with  one  large  lurcher,  and  two 
or  three  maftifFs  ;  the  hunters  ride  with  a  lance  and  a  pair  of 
piftols. 

La  Cerignola  is  a  town  of  twelve  thoufand  inhabitants, 
fituated  on  a  rifing  ground  without  tree  or  bufh  near  it. 
About  forty  years  ago  an  earthquake  almoft  deftroyed  it, 
and  it  is  not  yet  thoroughly  rebuilt ;  the  ftreets  are  crooked 
and  dirty,  the  houfes  all  low,  as  the  owners  dare  not  raife 
them  high  for  fear  of  another  fhock.  The  eighty -nrft 
Golumna  Milliaria,  infcribed  with  the  name  of  Trajan,  was 
the  only  fragment  of  antiquity  I  found  here.  The  com- 
modities of  the  place  are  fheep,  horfes,  and  corn  y  the  bread 
is  black  and  gritty,  but  well  tafted.  In  1363,  James  fyr- 
cucci,  great  Chamberlain  of  Naples,  was  lord  or  this  manor: 
it  afterwards  belonged  to  the  Palagoni,  from  whom  Ladif- 
$  laus 


JOURNEY     TO     TARANTO.  tfs 

laus  took  it  to  give  to  the  Caraccioli;  Pignatclli,  Count  of 
Egmont  f,  refident  in  France,  is  the  actual  pofTeflor,  and 
farms  it  out  at  fifteen  thoufan.i  ducats  a- year  (£.  2,3  oj. 
In  1503,  the  great  captain  defeated  the  French  near  this 
town,  in  an  attack  they  made  upon  his  camp.  Their 
general,  Lewis  of  Armagnac,  Duke  of  Nemours,  was  killed. 
in  the  engagement. 


SECTION      XX. 

•Aprlli  XirE    fet   out    early    to    examine    the     fields    of 
Cannas,   famous  for  the  vidlory  obtained  over 
the  Romans  by  Hannibal  in  the  536th  year  of  Rome      J  he 
refult  of  our  obfervations  fhall  be  given  in  as  few  words  as 
the  defire  of  being  intelligible  will  admit  of. 

From  Cerignola  to  the  bridge  of  Canofa  are  reckoned  fix 
miles  of  open  country,  arable  and  pafture.  The  Oianto 
(anciently  the  Aufidus)  flows  under  this  bridge  ;  its  courfe 
is  ferpentine,  and  various  in  its  direction,  fometimes  run- 
ning due  eaft,  at  others,  rather  to  the  fouth,  but  in  general 
inclining  to  the  north-eaft.  There  was  but  little  water  in  it, 
an\d  that  whitifli  and  muddy ;   but  from  the  widenefs  of  its 

■\  The  Pignatellis  give  three  pots  01*  pignatte  for  their  arms,  and  pretend 
they  bear  this  coat  in  memory  of  one  of  their  anceftors  having  entered  Con- 
ftantinople  fvvord  in  hand,  penetrated  into  the  market-place,  and  brought  off 
the  three  pots  as  a  trophy.  They  are  rich  and  puifiant  Barons,  Princes  of 
Belmonte,  Strongoli,  and  Dukes  of  Monteleone,  &c.  Of  this  family  was  Pope 
Innocent  the  Twelfth,  elected  in  1691. 

bed, 


1 66  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

bed,  the  fand  banks,  and  the  buttrefTes  eredled  to  break  the 
force  of  the  ftream,  it  is  plain  that  it  frill  anfvvers  Horace's 
epithets  of  fierce,  roaring,  and  violent  *.  It  flows  from 
two  fources  that  embrace  the  conical  Mount  Voltore,  and 
join  at  the  foot,  being  the  only  river  ft  as  Polybius  obferves, 
that  rifing  on  the  weftern  fide  of  the  Apennines,  empties 
itfelr  into  the  Adriatic.  This  double  origin  is  exprefTed  by 
the  appellation  Tauriformis  J,  having  two  branches  or  horns 
at  the  head  ||. 

Except  a  few  fcattered  poplars,  I  faw  no  wood  near  its 
banks;  the  Roman  road  from  Benevento,  through  Afcoli, 
appears  here  raifed  above  the  level  of  the  fields,  and  paries 
fouth  in  a  line  to  Canofa.  We  breakfafted  at  an  inn  near 
the  bridge,  and  regretted  our  not  having  followed  Horace's 
example,  in  bringing  a  fupply  of  bread  from  fome  other 
place  §,  for  what  we  got  here  was  as  brown  as  mahogany, 

*  Aufidus  acer — longe  fonantem — violens  obftrepit.  Hor. 

■f  This  exprefiion  of  Polybius  is  not  eafy  to  be  underftood  ;  for  there  are 
certainly  many  high  mountains  farther  weft  than  the  head  of  the  Ofanto  ;  it 
is  probable,  he  meant  that  it  rofe  weft:  of  the  middle  ridge  :  the  Sele  (Silarus) 
rifes  verv  near  it,  and  discharges  itfelf  into  the  Tirrhene  lea. 

j  Sic  Tauriformis  volvitur  Aufidus.  Hor. 

||  Perhaps  Horace  intended  no  more  by  this  title,  than  an  allufion  to  the 
bulls,  genii  with  horns,  minotaurs,  or  animals  with  human  face  and  horns, 
by  which  it  was  ufual  to  reprelent  rivers  on  coins  ;  for,  in  reality,  the  Ofanto 
may  be  faid  to  flow  from  fifty  fprings  as  well  as  two,  if  we  take  in  all  the 
brooks  that  fall  into  it. 

§   P.! his  longe  pulcherrimus,  ultra 

Callidus  ut  ioleat  humeris  portare  viator, 
m  Canufi  lapidofus.-— — 

2  and 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  ,67 

and  (6  gritty  that  it  fet  our  teeth  on  edge  to  craunch  it. 
The  friable  incompact  contexture  of  the  ftone  with  which 
the  millers  grind  their  corn,  rather  than  the  fand  of  the  area 
where  it  is  trodden  out,  can  alone  have  perpetuated  this  defect 
in  the  Canufian  bread  for  nineteen  centuries.  I  believe  their 
millftones  are  of  the  foft  concreted  rock,  which  conftitutes 
the  greateft  part  of  the  coaft.  The  corn  is  feparated  from 
the  ear  by  the  trampling  of  a  great  number  of  mares  tied  in 
a  firing  by  their  tails,  and  whipped  round  and  round. 
This  operation  is  performed,  in  the  Terra  di  Otranto,  by  a 
pair  of  oxen,  who  drag  between  them  a  very  heavy 
rough  ftone,  that  breaks  the  fheaves,  and  makes  out  the 
grain. 

We  were  too  much  occupied  with  the  evolutions  of  Han- 
nibal, to  think  of  any  deviation  from  the  direct  route  to 
Cannae,  fo  referving  Canofa,  and  its  antiquities,  for  another 
opportunity,  (truck  into  the  Earletta  road  at  the  corner  of 
the  inn,  down  the  fouth  fide  of  the  Ofanto.  A  ridge  of 
low  hills,  bare  of  wood,  and  laid  out  in  grafs  or  corn  land, 
confines  the  river  on  that  fide  for  four  miles,  at  the  end  of 
which  we  came  to  a  plain  bounded  by  the  Knolls,  whereon 
flood  the  city  of  Cannae  *.  For  the  next  mile  the  Ofanto 
flows  again  clofe  under  the  hills,  till,  upon  their  finking 
with  a  gentle  Hope  into  the  plains  of  Barletta,  it  winds  on 

*  The  Latins  made  the  name  of  this  city  of  the  plural  number,  probably 
from  its  confifting  of  <  iftinct  parts,  built  on  different  eminences.  The  Greeks 
named  it  in  the  fingular. 

Z  fome 


iGS  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

fome  miles  farther  through  a  dead  flat,  and  empties  it- 
felf  into  the  gulph  of  Venice.  On  the  north  fide,  the 
riling  grounds  are  much  more  remote  from  the  fea,  and  all 
between  is  an  uninterrupted  level. 

The  traces  of  the  town  of  Cannas  are  very  faint,  con- 
fitting  of  fragments  of  altars,  cornices,  gates,  walls, 
vaults,  and  underground  granaries.  It  was  destroyed  the 
year  before  the  battle ;  but  being  rebuilt,  became  an 
epifcopal  fee  in  the  infancy  of  Chriftianity.  It  was  again 
ruined  in  the  fixth  century,  but  feems  to  have  fubfifted  in 
an  humble  ftate  many  ages  later  j  for  we  read  of  its  con- 
tending with  Barletta  for  the  territory,  which  till  then 
had  been  enjoyed  in  common  by  them;  and  in  1284, 
Charles  the  Firfr.  iffued  an  edict  for  dividing  the  lands,  to 
prevent  all  future  litigation.  The  profperity  of  the  towns 
along  the  coaft,  which  increafed  in  wealth  and  popula- 
tion by  embarkations  for  the  Crufadoes,  and  by  traffic, 
proved  the  annihilation  of  the  great  inland  cities ;  and 
Cannae  was  probably  abandoned  entirely  before  the  end  of 
the  thirteenth  century. 

At  the  foot  of  the  hill  is  a  large  arch  over  a  marble 
trough,  which  receives  the  waters  of  a  copious  fpring. 
Here  we  found  a  camp  of  Abruzzefe  fhepherds  on  the  point 
of  departing  for  the  mountains.  Rough  in  afpecl,  dialect, 
and  drefs,  but  civil  and  hofpitable,  they  offered  us  milk, 
cheefe,  and  cold  meat.      The  chief  of  them  gave  us  fome 

T  brafs 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  ^ 

brafs  coins  of  Zeno  and  Leo,  found  among  the  ruins ;  and 
feemed  aftonifhed  at  our  offering  to  pay  him  for  fuch 
baubles. 

The  hill  above  the  well  being  rather  higher  than  the  reft, 
ferved  as  a  reconnoitring  poft,  where  I  inlpe&ed  my  notes, 
and  took  drawings  of  the  country,  before  I  entered  the  field 
of  battle.  My  eyes  now  ranged  at  large  over  the  vafl 
expanfe  of  unvariegated  plains.  All  was  filent ;  not  a  man, 
not  an  animal,  appeared  to  enliven  the  fcene.  We  flood  on 
ruins,  and  over  vaults ;  the  banks  of  the  river  were  defert 
and  wild.  My  thoughts  naturally  alTumed  the  tint  of  the 
dreary  profpedt,  as  I  reflected  on  the  fate  of  Rome  and 
Carthage.  Rome  recovered  from  the  blow  fhe  received  in 
thefe  fields ;  but  her  liberty,  fame,  and  trophies  have  long 
been  levelled  in  the  duft.  Carthage  lies  in  ruins  lefs  dis- 
cernible than  thefe  of  the  paltry  walls  of  Cannas  :  the  very 
traces  of  them  have  almofl:  vanifhed  from  the  face  of  the 
earth.  The  daring  projects,  marches,  and  exploits  of  her 
hero,  even  the  victory  obtained  on  this  fpot,  would,  like 
thoufands  of  other  human  atchievements,  have  been  long 
ago  buried  in  oblivion,  had  not  his  very  enemies  configned 
him  to  immortality ;  for  the  annals  of  Carthr.ge  exift  no 
more  :    one  common  ruin  lias  fwallowed  all. 

The  Roman  Confuls,  JEmilius  Paulus  and  Terentius 
Varro,  being  authorized  by  the  fenate  to  quit  the  defenfive 
plan,  and  flake  the  fortunes  of  the  republic  on  the  chance 

Z    2  Of 


176  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO, 

of  a  battle,  marched  from  Canufium,  and  encamped  a  kw 
miles  eaft,  in  two  unequal  divifions,  with  the  Aufidus 
between  them.  In  this  pofition  they  meant  to  wait  for  an 
opportunity  of  engaging  to  advantage ;  but  Hannibal, 
whofe  critical  fituation  in  a  defolated  country,  without 
refuge  or  allies,  could  admit  of  no  delay,  found  means  to 
inflame  the  vanity  of  Varro  by  fome  trivial  advantages  in 
fkirmifhes  between  the  light  horfe.  The  Roman,  elated 
with  this  fuccefs,  determined  to  bring  matters  to  a  fpeedy 
conclufion  ;  but,  finding  the  ground  on  the  fouth  fide  too 
confined  for  the  operations  of  fo  large  an  army,  crofTed  the 
river,  and  refting  his  right  wing  upon  the  Aufidus,  drew 
out  his  forces  in  the  plain.  Hannibal,  whofe  head  quarters 
were  at  Cannas,  no  fooner  perceived  the  enemy  in  motion, 
than  he  forded  the  water  below,  and  marfhalled  his  troops 
in  a  line  oppofite  to  that  of  his  adverfaries. 

Polybius,  who  had  examined  the  place,  was  a  mili- 
tary man,  and  may  have  been  acquainted  with  perfons  that 
were  prefent  at  the  battle,  was  the  guide  I  followed,  as  he 
is  the  original  from  whom  fubfequent  hiflorians  took  their 
accounts,  and  whofe  authority  feems  incontrovertible.  He 
obferves,  that  one  of  the  armies  faced  the  north,  and  the 
other  the  fouth  ;  by  which  pofitions  the  rifing  fun  incom- 
moded neither.  The  difficulty  lies  in  deciding  which  way 
each  of  them  was  turned ;  as  the  expreflions  of  Polybius 
are  faid  by  fome  to  admit  of  a  double  meaning,  though  I 

confefs 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  171 

confefs  I  think  nothing  can  be  more  explicit  *.  Chaupy 
taxes  Livy  with  having  mifinterpreted  the  pafTage  of  the 
Greek  hiftorian,  who,  according  to  his  opinion,  did  not 
mean  that  the  Romans  ftood  with  their  faces  to  the  noon- 
tide fun,  but  only  that  they  were  drawn  up  to  the  fouth  of 
the  enemy  f.  He  affirms  that  the  topography  of  the  plain, 
and  the  courfe  of  the  river,  agree  with  this  explanation,  and 
that  if  the  legions  had  faced  the  fouth,  the  runaways  could 
not,  after  the  defeat,  have  reached  Canufium  and  Venufia, 
without  palling  through  the  whole  victorious  army.  Sa- 
lapia,  Arpi,  Luceria,  would  have  been  their  places  of 
refuge. 

However,  as  I  cannot  but  think  Livy  well  enough  verfed 
in  the  Greek  tongue,  not  to  miftake  the  meaning  of  an 
author  he  ftudred  and  followed  fo  clofely,  I  am  inclined  to 
trufi  to  his  explanation ;  efpecially  as,  according  to  my 
ideas,  the  fituation  of  the  ground  is  in  his  favour  ;  for, 
exactly  in  that  part  of  the  plain  where  we  know  with  moral 

*  Kat  rag  y.lv  sx  tS  peifyvog  ya.^a.xog  ottx,£i£-x'£uv  tov  ■srojau.ov  svBsug 
ttou^tv'tfLotXhi.  rag  0  ex  Bctjepov  o-uvci,7f}uv  Ttsjoig  I'm  tyjv  ctvjvjv  evBeTotv  e^s]cerlet 
XapCdvuv  Txa.fTot.v  Trtv  tTriQxvtiuv  T'qv  -wpog  p,etnj[x.&pla.v'  Et  hos  quidem  majo- 
rum  caftrorum  ducens  trans  flumen,  confeitim  in  acie  locabat.  Illos  vero 
minorum  jungens  cum  prioribus  recta  linca  appofuir,  faciens  totam  apparitio- 
nem  verfus  meridiem. — B\e7ns<rr,g  SI  Tijg  ftev  tuv  Pwpotiuv  TccPtyg  srpog  pevrift- 
Cptccv  Trig  dt  tuv  Kapffldonuv  argoj  t«;  a,px\vg°  sxajepoig  d^KccCri  trui/iScavs 
yivetrBott  Tijv  xtxjoc,  tov  'i\\wv  dvoijoXrlv'  Speftante  meridiem  Romanorum  acie, 
Carthaginienfium  vero  feptentrionem,  ambobus  inoffenfis  contigit  efie  ab  folis 
ortu. 

t  Livy's  words  are,  **  Romanis  in  meridiem,  Pasnis  in  feptentrionem 
^  verfis."    Lib,  xxii.  46". 

certainty 


i7z  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

certainty  that  the  main  effort  of  the  battle  lay,  the  Aufidus, 
after  running  due  eaft  for  fome  time,  makes  a  fudden  turn 
to  the  fouth,  and  defcribes  a  very  large  femicircle.  I  he 
Romans,  we  are  to  fuppofe,  forded  it  at  the  angle  or 
elbow,  and  placed  their  right  wing  on  the  banks ;  while 
the  legions  extended  themfelves  due  eaft,  till  the  whole  line 
came  to  face  the  fouth.  The  Carthaginians  crofled  in  two 
places  within  the  femicircle,  and  were  drawn  out  in  a  line, 
that  formed  the  chord  of  which  the  river  was  the  arch : 
the   way   to   Canufium   was   therefore  open   for    the  fugi- 


tives *. 


The  fcene  of  action  is  marked  out  to  pofterity,  by  the 
name  of  Pezzo  di  Sangue,  M  Field  of  Blood."  The  pea- 
fants  fhewed  us  fome  fpurs  and  heads  of  lances,  lately 
turned  up  by  the  plough  ;  and  told  us,  horfe-loads  of 
armour  and  weapons  had  been  at  different  times  carried  off 
from  thence. 

Thefe  plains  have  more  than  once,  fince  the  Punic  war, 
afforded  room  for  men  to  accomplish  their  mutual  destruc- 
tion. Melo  of  Bari,  after  railing  the  Standard  of  revolt 
againft  the  Greek  Emperors,  and  defeating  their  generals  in 
feveral  engagements,  was  at  laft  routed  here,  in  1019,  by 
the  Catapan  Bolanus.  Out  of  two  hundred  and  fifty  Nor- 
man   adventurers,    the   flower  of   Melo's    army,    only   ten 

*  All  the  maps  are  inaccurate  in  this  province.  D'Anville  places  Canu- 
fium on  the  northern  bank  of  the  river,  and  the  battle  feveral  miles  fouth  of 
the  Aufidus. 

efcaped 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  j73 

efcaped  the  /laughter  of  the  day.  In  1201,  the  archbifhop 
of  Palermo  and  his  rebellious  aflbciates,  who  had  taken 
advantage  of  the  nonage  of  Frederick  of  Swabia,  were  cut 
to  pieces  at  Cannae  by  Walter  de  Brienne,  fent  by  the  Pope 
to  defend  the  young  King's  dominions. 

We  returned  to  Cerignuola  acrofs  the  fields. 


SECTION     XXI. 

T^T  EXT  day  we  hired  a  guide ;  or,  to  fpeak  more 
corredUy,  a  very  talkative  buftling  fellow  offered  to 
conduct  us  acrofs  the  plains  to  the  ruins  of  Salapia.  Our 
ride  was  pleafant  for  nine  miles,  over  a  fine  down,  with 
little  corn  or  wood,  but  a  great  deal  of  lentifcus.  We 
were  brought  at  laft.  to  the  edge  of  a  long  lake,  feparated 
from  the  fea  by  a  narrow  neck  of  land,  cut  into  feveral 
ponds  for  making  fait,  which  is  piled  up  in  heaps,  and; 
carried  off  by  boats  to  the  mips  that  ride  at  anchor  in  the 
road.  We  faw  fome  lying  a  mile  or  two  off,  not  being 
able  to  come  nearer  to  take  in  their  cargoes.  The  fvvamps 
are  overgrown  with  fea  purflain  and  dwarf  withy,  with 
which  the  fhepherds  and  fifhermen  make  their  huts  and 
bafkets.  Near  the  lake  are  the  ruins  we  had  come  fo  far 
out  of  our  way  to  fee.  They  coniift  of  a  fquare  fortification- 
of  earthen  ramparts,  with  many  divifions  and  forT;?*  I 
mould  have  taken  it  for  a  camp  rather  than  a  town,  S3 

tllL      , 


i;^  JOURNEY    TO    TAR  ANTO. 

there  is  not  a  (tone  left  near  it,  had  not  the  tradition  of  the 
country,  and  the  coins  that  have  been  found  here,  marked 
with  the  name  of  Salapia*,  determined  the  fituation  of  that 
place.  In  the  Punic  war,  Salapia  was  a  poft  of  conftquence, 
which  the  Romans  and  Carthaginians  were  equally  defirous 
of  poflefling.  After  the  death  of  Marcellus,  Hannibal 
affixed  that  Conful's  feal  to  fome  forged  letters,  in  hopes 
of  gaining  admittance  into  Salapia ;  but  intelligence,  acci- 
dentally conveyed    to  the  garrifon,   defeated  his  pnrpofe. 

Salpi  was  a  city  and  biihoprick  till  1547,  when  the  fee 
was  united  to  that  of  Trani.  1  believe  it  flood  at  La  Trinita, 
fome  miles  from  the  old  town. 

Our  conductor,  who  during  the  whole  journey  had 
entertained  us  with  wonderful  ftories  of  apparitions  and 
miracles,  at  laft  difclofed  the  fecret  caufe  of  his  eagernefs  to 
accompany  us  thus  far.  This  was  no  lefs  than  the  hopes  of 
difcovering,  among  the  many  cavities  in  thefe  ancient 
mounds,  the  entrance  of  an  enchanted  grotto,  which  con- 
tains a  column  of  maffive  filver,  and  other  precious  things. 
It  was,  he  allured  us,  the  belief  of  the  whole  country, 
that  whoever  was  pure  enough  from  fin,   and  fo  favoured 

*  Nummi  Salapinorum. 
iER.   1.  Cap.  Apollinis  laur.  SAAAniNHN.  — Equus.  tridens.  nYAA. 

2.  Cap.  Jovis  ZAAAntNnN  =  Aper  nAI2TIOT. 

3.  Cap.  Jov.  2AAAniNJTlN=Aper.  tridens  nTAAOT. 

4.  Cap.  Apoll.=Equus.  ftella  SAAniNXIN. 

5.  Equus  A.  AAK>r=Pifcis  ONinA. 

6.  Equus  SAAniNrzN=:Pifcis  EAAMAIPEAAEEN. 

7.  Cap.  imb.  diad.=Equus.  ftella.  ZAAniN^N, 

7  hY 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  171 

by  Heaven,    as  to  penetrate  into  this    myfterious  cavern, 

would  undoubtedly  become  pofleffed  of  treafure  fufficient  to 

buy  up  all  the  flocks   of  Puglia  Piana.      Our  honed:  guide 

was  fure  of  obtaining  the  preference,  becaufe  he  had  been 

a  few  days  before  to  pay  his  devoirs  to  the  Madonna  dell' 

Incoronata,  and  had  taken  every  ftep  enjoined  by  the  church 

for  purifying  his  foul  from  all  ftain  ;  however,  he  could  not 

avoid  being  daggered,  when,   upon  examining  the  whole 

place,  not  one  of  us  could  find  a  hollow  above  a  foot  deep ; 

and,   with  a  look  expreftive  of  diftre/s  and  confufion,  he 

told   us,   he   now   recollected   that  many  good  men  of  his 

acquaintance  (among   the    reft  a  capuchin   friar  of  moft 

exemplary  life)  had  proved  unfuccefsful  in  their  attempts  to 

come  at  this  bewitched  cave.     As  he  feemed  to  think  our 
1 

prefence  adverfe  to  the  influence  of  his  ftars,  we  took  our 
leave,  gave  him  for  his  trouble  the  only  money  he  was 
likely  to  earn  that  day,  and  purfued  our  journey  by  the  fea- 
fhore.  As  long  as  our  eyes  were  capable  of  difcerning 
objects  of  that  fize,  we  could  perceive  him  running  up  and 
down  very  bufily,  hunting  after  his  imaginary  grotto. 

We  rode  through  a  rich  arable  country  to  the  mouth  of 
the  Ofanto,  and  crofted  the  bridge  into  the  Terra  di  Bari. 
There  is  a  tide  very  perceptible  about  half  a  mile  up  the 
river.  Three  miles  farther,  we  arrived  at  Barletta,  through 
a  narrow  flip  of  an  inclofed  vine  country,  taken  off"  the 
extenfive  corn  lands  of  Cannae ;  the  foil  (hallow,  planted 
with  almond  trees. 

A  a  Barletta 


176  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO, 

Barletta  has,  from  without,  a  ruinous  afpect ;  its  walls 
tumbling  down,  and  its  ditches  filled  with  rubbim.  But 
the  infide  of  the  city  is  magnificently  built,  though  thinly 
peopled.  It  conveys  the  idea  of  a  capital  of  fome  mighty 
ftate  reduced  to  the  condition  of  a  conquered  province,  or 
depopulated  by  a  raging  peftilence.  Frequent  changes  of 
matters,  bad  adminiftration,  and  decay  of  commerce, 
blafted  the  profperity  of  Barletta.  Its  ftreets  are  wide  and 
well  paved  ;  the  houfes  large  and  lofty,  built  with  hewn 
ftone,  which,  from  age,  has  acquired  a  polifli  little  inferior 
to  that  of  marble.  Some  of  thefe  venerable  manfions  have 
the  flones  cut  after  the  Tufcan  manner,  in  angular  fhapes. 
The  ftyle  of  building  fixes  their  date  at  the  firft  emergence 
of  the  arts  out  of  the  chaos  of  barbarifm,  many  of  the 
houfes  ftill  retaining  pointed  arches,  fhort  twifted  columns, 
and  other  remnants,  of  Saracenic  tafte ;  while  others  are 
decorated  with  pillars,  entablatures,  and  members  character- 
iftic  of  the  ancient  Grecian  architecture.  This  cky  owes, 
its  embellifhments  to  the  policy  of  the  Aragonian  kings,, 
who  refided  here  to  fecure  the  allegiance  of  the  Pugliefe, 

In  the  cathedral,  which  is  remarkable  for  its  antique 
granite  columns,  Ferdinand  the  Firft  caufed  himfelf  to  be 
crowned,  in  hopes  that  the  folemnity  of  the  ceremony 
would  infpire  the  people  with  awe  and  refpect  for  his  perfora 
and  family. 

In  the  market-place  ftands  a  coloflal  bronze  ftatue, 
feventeen  feet  three  inches  high,   reprefenting,   as  is  fup- 

pofed3 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  i77 

pofed,    the  Emperor  Heraclius,    who    began   his  reign  in 
6ro.     He  is  ftanding  dreft  in  a  military  habit,   crowned 
with  a  diadem,  a  fhort  cloak  hanging  from  his  left  fhoulder 
acrois  his  breaft,   and  thrown  over  his  left  arm,  which  holds 
a  globe ;   his  right  is  raifed  above  his  head  and  grafps  a  fmall 
crofs ;  the  drawing  is  rude  and  incorrect,  the  attitude  awk- 
ward *.      According  to  fome  hiitorians,   Heraclius  was  par- 
ticularly attached  to  the  worfhip  of  St.  Michael,  for  whofe 
church,   on  Mount  Garganus,  he  intended  this  mafly  repre- 
fentation  of  himfelf,  with  many  other  valuable  prefents;  the 
Hup  that  brought  them  from  Constantinople  was  cait  away 
on  the  Puglian  coaft,   and  the  ftatue  thrown  on  the  fands, 
where  it  lay  many  ages  much  damaged,  and  half  buried. 
In    1 49 1,  it  was  dug  up,  and  the  hands  and  feet  being 
reftored,  was  placed  in  the  great  fquare  of  Barletta.     Pon- 
tanus  thinks  this  coloflus  flood  originally  at  the  head  of  the 
mole,    which  Heraclius  had  carried  out  into  the  fea  for  the 
convenience  of  navigators,  and  that  the  extended  pofition 
of  the  hand  denotes   the  protection   he  afforded  to  com- 
merce.     It  long  paffed  for  the  figure  of  Rachis,  King  of 

*  The  i'moothnefs  of  the  chin  makes  me  hefuate  whether  to  afcribe  this 
ftatue  to  Heraclius,  who  is  the  fecond  eaftern  Emperor  that  appears  on  the 
coins  with  a  beard,  or  to  fome  prior  monarch.  Till  the  time  of  his  prede- 
ceflbr  Phocas,  fovereigns  ftiaved  their  chins,  though  their  oriental  fubjefts 
cherifhed  a  length  of  beard.  Cedrenus,  indeed,  allures  us,  that  Heraclius 
conformed  to  that  Imperial  cuftom  •,  but  on  his  medals,  he  is  drawn  with  a 
l'quare  beard,  not  unlike  that  of  our  Henry  the  Eighth.  If  this  image  be  his, 
1  fufpeft  it  was  not  imported  from  Greece,  but  caft  in  Italy,  and  conle- 
quently  dreft  after  the  Roman  faihion. 

A  a  2  Lombardy, 


178  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

Lombardy,  who,  in  749,  refigned  his  crown,  and  took  the 
habit  of  a  Benedictine  monk  at  Monte  Cafino. 

The  citadel  is  fpacious,  and  commands  the  port,  which 
is  at  prefent  a  mere  labyrinth,  confifting  of  feveral  irregular 
piers,  where  fhips  are  moored ;  but  without  any  fhelter 
from  the  north  wind,  which  fweeps  the  whole  bafon.  The 
exports  here  are  fait,  corn,  almonds,  and  liquorice,  a  root 
that  grows  fpontaneoufly  in  the  fwamps.  This  air  is  ac- 
counted unwholefome  during  the  hot  months. 

Barletta  is  faid  by  Baccius,  to  have  been  at  flrfl:  no  more 
than  a  tower,  or  drinking-houfe,  on  the  road  to  Cannae, 
which  had  for  its  fign  a  barrel,  barilletta  ;  when  the  cities 
of  Cannae  and  Canofa  fell  to  decay,  and  the  advantages  of 
trade  drew  people  to  the  coaft,  a  numerous  colony  in- 
fenfibly  gathered  round  this  tower,  and  in  484  Pope 
Gelalius  came  down  from  Garganus  to  confecrate  a  church, 
for  the  fettlers,  which,  in  time,  became  the  cathedral  of 
the  united  fees  of  Nazareth,  Cannae,  and  Monteverde.  The. 
Emperor  Frederick  added  greatly  to  Barletta,  and  is  by 
fome  called  its  founder.  Other  authors  affign  higher  anti- 
quity to  the  place,  and  fuppofe  it  to  be  the  Barduli  of  the 
Itineraries.  In  1291,  the  Barlettans  rebelled  againft  the 
houfe  of  Swabia,  and  fet  up  the  papal  ftandard,  for  which 
they  were  feverely  punimed.  Manfred,  who  had  a  great 
partiality  for  this  part  of  his  dominions,  held  a  general  par- 
liament here,  in  which  he  put  in  practice  every  endearing 
art,  likely  to  win  the  hearts,  and  fix  the  wavering  affections  of 
1  his 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  179 

his  vallals.  In  the  fifteenth  century,  Barletta  was  efteemed 
one  of  the  four  ftrongefr.  fortrefTes  in  Italy  *.  It  was  mort- 
gaged to  the  Venetians  by  Ferdinand  the  Second,  and  re- 
taken from  them  by  Gonfalvo  de  Cordova,  who  here  col- 
lected his  forces,  and  made  his  firft  ftand  againft  the  French, 
in  1503. 


SECTION     XX  I. 

/"\N  leaving  Barletta,  we  faw  before  us,  on  a  peninfula, 
the  city  of  Trani,  at  the  diftance  of  fix  miles  j  the 
road  to  it  is  one  of  the  rougheft  ever  trodden  by  man  or 
beaft  y  it  runs  partly  along  the  rocks  impending  over  the 
beach,  and  partly  in  narrow  lanes,  through  vineyards, 
between  dry  fione  walls.  In  every  inclofure  is  one,  and 
often  two  hovels,  built  in  a  fpiral  form,  with  the  ftones 
picked  off  the  land  after  digging.  Thefe  conical  towers  ferve 
as  watch-houfes  for  the  perfons  that  attend  before  vintage, 
to  prevent  the  depredations  of  quadruped  and  biped  pil- 
ferers;  when  old  and  overgrown  with  climbing  weeds  and 
fig-trees,  they  become  very  romantic  obje&s,  and  appear 
like  fo  many  ancient  maufolea.  The  fhape  of  thefe  piles 
of  rude  ftone,  covered  with  mofs  and  brambles,  has 
deceived  a  writer  of  travels  into  a  belief  of  their  being 
Roman  tombs ;    but  I  am  furprifed  the  prodigious  multi- 

*  The  other  three  were,  Fabriano  in  the  Marca,  Prato  in  Tufcany,  and 
Crema  in  Lombardy. 

tude 


t$o  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

tilde  of  them  did  not  raife  fufpicion  ;  for  if  they  were  really 
depofitories  of  the  dead,  the  afhes  of  the  whole  Roman 
people  would  fcarcely  have  fufficed  to  fill  the  columbaria  of 
the  fingle  province  of  Bari. 

As  foon  as  we  arrived  at  Tram,  we  waited  upon  the  Pre- 
fident,  with  a  letter  from  the  Secretary  of  State,  and  obtained 
from  him,  an  order  for  all  convents,  in  his  diftridr,  to  receive 
us  civilly,  and  afford  us  lodging :  we  were  provided  with 
fimilar  recommendations  for  every  province,  and  except 
letters  for  private  families,  there  is  no  better  method  to  be 
purfued  in  a  tour  through  a  country  [o  ill  provided  with 
inns.  Our  evening  was  fpent  with  the  Archbimop,  a 
worthy  converfable  prelate.  He  told  us,  he  had  taken  great 
pains  to  introduce  a  tafte  for  ftudy  and  literature  into  his 
diocefe,  but  hitherto  without  fuccefs,  as  the  Tranians  were 
a  very  merry  race,  gente  molto  allegra,  but  unfortunately  born 
with  an  unconquerable  antipathy  to  application.  The  col- 
legians, though  under  his  immediate  infpection,  were  above 
his  hand,  and  often,  when  he  thought  the  whole  feminary 
buried  in  filence,  wrapped  up  in  ftudious  contemplation,  or 
deep  in  theological  lucubrations,  he  has  been  furprifed,  on 
entering  the  quadrangle,  to  find  all  ring  again  with  gigs 
and  tarantellas.  We  were  well  fatisfied  that  he  fpoke 
without  exaggeration,  for  never  did  I  hear  fuch  incefTant 
chattering,  and  fo  dunning  a  din,  as  was  kept  up  the  whole 
day  under  our  windows.  It  is  a  rule  eftablifhed  by  the 
cuftom  of  time  immemorial,  that  no  work  (hall  be  done  in 
2  Tram 


•  • 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  181 

Trani  after  dinner;  the  whole  afternoon  is  to  be  fpent 
in  dozing,  chatting,  or  fauntering :  we  could  not  prevail 
upon  the  blackfmith  to  fhoe  one  of  our  horfes  in  the 
evening. 

The  exportation  of  corn  is  confiderable,  but  little  other 
bufinefs  is  ftirring  ;  and  I  am  afraid  induftry  has  taken  a  long 
farewell  of  moft  of  the  cities  on  this  coaft.  The  great 
number  of  towns  along  the  Adriatic,  jealous  of  each  other, 
fhackled  with  honourable  but  baneful  privileges,  and  averfe 
to  all  friendly  intercourfe  and  coalition  of  interefts,  is  an 
almoft  infurmountable  bar  to  improvement ;  a  province  fo 
blefled  with  articles  of  prime  neceility  might  fpeedily 
rife  to  opulence,  were  trade  properly  underftood  and  en- 
couraged. 

The  bread  of  this  place  is  white,  light,  and  fpungy, 
baked  after  the  French  manner,  which  is  contrary  to  that 
of  the  Capitanata,  where  the  bakers  are  ignorant  of  the  very 
rudiments  of  their  trade,  and  knead  and  bake  their  dough 
in  fuch  an  imperfect  manner,  that  a  ftaanger  is  almoft 
choked  in  attempting  to  fwaltow  it. 

Vegetables  are  here  fo  exquifitely  flavoured,  that,  for  the 
firft  time  of  my  life,  I  ate  raw  unfeafoned  lettuces  with 
relifh  :  pulfe  of  all  kinds  are  large  and  pulpy  ;  the  market 
people  fell  peafe  and  beans  by  weight,  and  make  ufe  of 
pebbles  in  lieu  of  weights  •>  a  rude  mode  of  dealing,  which 
muft  expofe  the  vender  to  great  temptation  of  impofing. 
upon  his  chapmen,   efpecially  as  the  {tones,  being  of  a  foffc 

kind; 


i8s  JOURNEY    TO    T  A  R  A  N  T  O. 

kind,  mufr.  in  time  lofe  part  of  their  hcavinefs  by  frequent 
rubbing. 

The  wine  of  the  diftricl  fouth  of  the  Ofanto  is  fweef, 
ftrong,  and  tawny.  It  is  mixed  with  raofto  cotto;  that  is, 
a  certain  proportion  of  rich  wine  boiled  down  to  a  jelly. 
This  is,  ho  doubt,  a  trick  of  the  vintner's  art,  handed  down 
from  the  ancients,  who  treated  their  moft  precious  wines  in 
a  fimilar  manner,  as  we  learn  from. many  pafiages  in  the 
daffies.  The  grapes  have  a  fine  flavour,  and  might  pro- 
duce excellent  liquor,  bat  from  inveterate  and  rooted  ig- 
norance the  proprietor  brews  with  them  a  muddy  unpo- 
table  mixture,  that  will  fcarce  keep  a  twelvemonth  without 
turning  to  vinegar. 

Tram  is  tolerably  well  built  of  flone,  upon  uneven  ground. 
The  harbour  is  incircled  by  the  town,  and  has  fcarcely  depth 
of  water  enough  to  fet  a  boat  afloat ;  the  corn  fhips  are 
obliged  to  come  to  an  anchor  a  couple  of  miles  off,  and 
take  in  their  lading  from  lig  »ters.  1  he  city  has  been  at 
great  expence..  in  building  aquav,  on  a  peninfula  that  ad- 
vances (o  far  as  to  embrace  the  haven  j  but  this  flip  of  land, 
mftead  of  being  occupied  by  the  warehoufes  and  flores  of 
merchants,  is  entirely  taken  up  by  two  or  three  overgrown 
monafterics.  We  need  look  for  no  other  criterion  of  the 
fr,atc  of  commerce  at  Trani. 

The  cathedral  flands  on  the  oppofite  fide  of  the  harbour, 
and  was  erected  fix  centuries  ago,  in  a  very  mean  tafte;  the 
ornaments    prepofterou?,     and,     except   a     few    pieces    of 

foliage, 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  1&3 

foliage,  clumiily  defigned  and  executed  ;  the  pillars  fhort 
and  thick,  refembling  thofe  of  our  oldeft  Englifti  churches, 
which  were  built  after  the  Saxon  manner,  and  before  the 
introduction  of  that  lighter  fort  of  architecture,  which  we 
diftinguifh  by  the  name  of  Gothic,  and  admire  in  the  ca- 
thedrals of  York,  Lincoln,  Weftminfter,  &c.  The  columns 
of  the  nave  are  folid  blocks  of  granite,  the  diflocated  fpoils 
of  fome  ancient  edifice.  Philip,  Prince  of  Morea,  fecond 
fon  ©f  Charles  the  Firft,  repofes  in  a  marble  coffin,  without 
infcription  or  ornament,  except  the  crofs  of  Jerufalem.  In- 
nocent the  Third  made  Frani  an  archbifhopric. 

Weft  of  the  cathedral  is  the  caftle,  confining  of  fome 
gloomy  towers,  built  by  Frederick  of  Swabia,  who,  in  re- 
venge for  the  depredations  committed  on  his  coafts  by  the 
Venetians,  hanged  Peter  Tiepolo,  the  Doge's  fon,  on  the 
Keep,  in  fight  of  the  Venetian  gallies  that  were  then  cruiz- 
ing ofT  the  port. 

The  monaftery  of  St.  Clare  is  a  fumptuous  inclofure ;  its 
great  gate  is  built  in  that  ftile  of  architecture  which  the 
Puglians  learnt  from  the  Saracens  during  their  long  refi- 
dence  in  the  country.  Thofe  Africans,  however  ferocious 
they  might  be  in  war,  were  certainly  well  fkilled  in  the  arts 
of  peace,  and  excelled  in  many  branches  of  fcience,  which 
Chriftians  of  thofe  dark  ages  defpifed,  or  defpaired  of  at- 
taining. 

In  the  iirft  diviilon  of  the  conquefts  made  by  the  Norman 
adventurers,  and  before  any  chieftain  had  acquired  fuch  a 

B  b  fuperiority 


184  JOURNEY    TO    TARAN  TO. 

fuperiority  over  the  reft,  as  to  deftroy  the  original  equality  of 
their  ariftocratical  confederacy,  Trani  was  afligned  to  one 
Peter,  from  whom  the  family  of  Capece  deduces  its  pedi- 
gree,  but,    I  think,  on  questionable  grounds  *. 

Under  Jthe  walls  of  Trani  was  fought,  in  1502,  a  trial  of 
fkill  between  eleven  Spaniards  and  as  many  Frenchmen,  in 

*  Francis  Capectlatro,  in  his  Origin  of  Nobility,  in  fids  upon  ic,  that  Peter 

bore  the  name  of  Capece  by  inheritance,  and  was  of  the  blood  of  the  Gothic 

princes.     More  moderate  genealogifts  believe  the  Capeci  to  be  Normans  by 

extraction,  and  to  have  fettled  at  Sorrento,  where  they  recommended  them- 

felves  to  notice   by  their  fkill  as  naval  officers;   they  frequently  are  called 

Cacapece  in  old  chronicles,    a  name  that  an  ingenious  friend  of  mine  thinks 

the  original  one,   and   allufive  of  their  profeffion.     They  were  raifed  early  to 

an  exalted  rank  in  the  ftate,  and  honoured  with  the  confidence  of  many  fove- 

reigns.    Marino  Capece  fuperintended  the  building  of  Manfredonia.     Conrad 

fignalifed   himfelf  in  the  Swabian  caufe,  which   his  family  had  always  fup- 

ported,  and  probably  owed  its  fortunes  to:   after  the  battle  of  Benevento,  he 

cut  his  way  through  the  thickeft  fquadrons  of  the  enemy,    headed  a  party  in 

Sicily  in  favour  of  Conradine,    and  maintained  to  the  laft  an  unfliaken  fidelity 

to  his  old  mafters.     This  conduct  rendered  the  Capeci  extremely  odious  to 

the  conqueror,  who  deprived   many  individuals  of  their  lives,  and  many  of 

their  eftates ;  he  obliged  the  furvivors  to  tack  ignominious  additions  to  their 

furname,  fuch  as  Latro,  Galeota,   Pifcicelli,   Zurolo,   Minutolo,  Tomacelli, 

&c.  which,   in  time,    became  honourable  diftin&ions  of  the  feveral  branches 

of  this  numerous  fcpt.     In  Naples,  a  family  that  fpreads  itielfout  into  many 

branches,  acquires   thereby  an  increafe  of  dignity  and  influence  :    in  fome 

countries,  fuch  a  divifion  contributes  more  to  the  deftrudion  than  the  pro- 

fperity  of   a  houle.     That  of  Capece  was  at  one  period  divided  into  fixteen 

branches,  but  half  of  them  are  now  extinct.   It  gave  to  the  chair  of  St.  Peter, 

one  pope,  viz,  Boniface  the  Ninth,  elected  in  13S9,  extolled  for  his  chaftity, 

and  blamed  for  his  avarice  and  nepotifm.     Of  this  race  was  James  Galeota, 

who,  in   148S,  commanded  the  French  army,   and  defeated  the  Dukes  of 

Britanny  and  Orleans  at  the  battle  of  St.  Aubin  du  Cormier.    One  of  its  molt 

refpectable   prefent   members,  is    the   learned    and   amiable   archbilhop   of 

Taranto. 

fupport 


JOURNEY    TO    TAR  ANT  O.  185 

fupport  of  the  honour  of  their  refpeclive  nations ;  the  Vene- 
tians fat  as  umpires.  The  combatants  fought  till  there  re- 
mained only  fix  Spanifh  and  four  French  knights  ;  the  latter 
then  alighted,  and  defended  themfelves  behind  their  horfes 
as  behind  a  rampart,  till  night  put  an  end  to  the  conteft. 


SECTION     XXIII. 

T>  ISCEGLIA  is  four  miles  diftant  from  Trani.  The 
road  is  very  rugged,  and  being  worn  with  wheels,  and 
the  courfe  of  rain  water,  is  cracked  into  figures  not  unlike 
an  ancient  pavement ;  and  fuch  it  has  been  deemed  by  fome 
writers,  but  1  could  not  difcover  any  traces  of  a  Roman 
way  ;  the  great  Brundufian  road  never  came  near  the  coaft 
till  it  reached  Bari. 

The  face  of  this  country  is  delightful,  and  much  more 
diversified  than  the  neighbourhood  of  the  Ofanto.  We  rode 
under  the  made  of  fruit  trees,  of  a  fize  and  vigour  of 
growth  unknown  in  more  northern  latitudes.  The  olives  of 
this  province  are  not  inferior  in  bulk  to  the  largeft  Seville 
ones. 

Bifceglia  is  a  pretty  town,  fituated  in  the  midfl:  of 
orchards  and  villas.  Its  walls  are  of  (lone,  and  very  lofty. 
I  was  unfuccefsful  in  my  refearches  after  the  antique  build- 
ings mentioned  in  an  account  of  this  place.     I  met  with  no 

B  b  2  remains 


1 86  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

remains  of  baths  or  cellars,  but  hundreds  of  fubterraneous 
refervoirs  and  ciflerns,  of  all  fizes  and  fhapes,  cut  into  fteps 
in  the  folid  rock,  and  arched  over  with  ftones  and  ftucco, 
in  order  to  collect  and  preferve  the  rain-water,  which  is  the 
only  fort  they  have  to  drink,  in  a  diifxict  fo  totally  deftitute- 
of  fprings. 

This  little  city  was  granted  by  Charles  the  Firit  to  the 
Bruneforts ;  but  its  inhabitants  feem  to  have  had  a  great 
diflike  to  baronial  government,  by  the  tender  they  made  to 
the  Emperor  Charles  the  Fifth,  of  fourteen  thoufand  golden 
ducats,  a  large  fum  in  thofe  days,  provided  he  would 
render  them  for  ever  a  royal  corporation,  fubjcct  only  to 
the  jurifdiction  of  the  King's  officers.  In  the  wars  between 
Durazzo  and  Anjou,  the  Bifceglians,  being  diiTatiified  with 
the  behaviour  of  King  Charles's  garrifon,  fent  to  offer  the 
keys  of  their  town  to  his  rival..  The  Angevines  marched 
from  Bari ;  but,  having  met  with  an  unexpected  refiftance 
at  Bifceglia,  were  obliged  to  make  their  entry  by  main 
force.  This  appearance  of  double  dealing  in  the  citizens 
exafperated  the  foldiers,  and  gave  them  a  plea  for  plunder- 
ing it  as  a  place  taken  by  affault.  They  would  have  laid 
it  wafte,  had  not  Lewis  of  Anjou,  their  chief,  curbed  their 
fury  by  extraordinary  activity  and  dint  of  authority.  Thefe 
generous  exertions  colt  him  his  life,  for  they  threw  him-  into 
a  fever,  of  which  he  died.  He  was  a  younger  fon  of  John, 
King  of  France,  and,  during  the  minority  of  Charles  the 
Sixth j    Regent   of  that  kingdom  ;    a  trufl:  which   he  did 

2  not 


JOURNEY    TO     TARANTO.  187 

not  difcharge  to  the  fatisfaction  of  the  nation  :  his  proceed- 
ings were  arbitrary,  and  the  extortions  he  committed,  or 
fuffered  to  pafs  unpunished,  brought  great  odium  upon 
him.  It  was  the  defire  of  accumulating  funds  for  his 
Neapolitan  expedition,  and  not  innate  avarice,  that  put  him 
upon  rapacious  mcafures ;  for  he  pofTerTed  a  liberal  and 
munificent  fpirit,  which  attached  to  his  caufe  the  partizans 
he  had  gained  by  his  eloquence  and  winning  behaviour. 
His  wit  was  lively,  and  his  head  clear  for  bufinefs ;  but 
he  was  not  endowed  with  military  talents,  and  by  no 
means  a  match  for  his  antagonist  Charles  the  Third,  one  of 
the  beft  generals  of  the  age.  Joan  the  Firft  adopted  Lewis, 
in  oppoiition  to  Durazzo ;  but  he  came  too  late  to  fave 
her.  « 

The  clergy  offer  to  the  devotion  of  the  Bifceglians  the 
liquefied  blood  of  St.  Pantaleon,  and  two  other  martyrs ;  a 
miracle  performed  annually  at  Naples,  and  in  feveral  other 
places  of  the  kingdom.  This  fpecies  of  prodigy  was  known 
to  the  Greeks  of  the  Lower  Empire,  who  introduced  many 
opinions  and  religious  practices  into  this  part  of  their  domi- 
nions. But  miraculous  liquefactions  are  of  older  (landing 
in  Puglia  *. 

* Dein  Gnatia 


■  • dedit  rilufque  jocofque, 

Dum  rlammis  fine  thura  liquefcere  limine  facro 

Perfuadere  cupit. Hor.  Sat.  5.  Lib.  r, 

"  Next,  Gnatia  afforded  fubjett  for  laughter,  while  fhe  endeavoured  to 
"  perfuade  us,  that  incenfe  would  melt  on  the  threfhold  of  her  temple,  with- 
M  out  the  help  of  fire.'' 

Three 


s88  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

Three  miles  more  of  the  fame  wretched  road,  through 
olive  woods  and  patches  of  vineyards,  brought  us  to  Mol- 
fetta.  I  did  not  enter  the  walls,  but  paffed  on  through  a 
well-built  fuburb.  The  outward  appearance  of  the  town  is 
handfome  ;  but  the  peep  I  had  through  the  gate,  mewed 
me  nothing  but  lofty  old-fafliioned  houfes,  and  narrow  dirty 
ftreets.  It  is  faid  to  contain  twelve  thoufand  inhabitants, 
and  to  carry  on  fome  trade  in  almonds  and  oil.  The  lord- 
fhip  belongs  to  the  Spinolas. 

In  or  near  all  thefe  towns  are  convents  of  a  ffcupendous 
bulk.  At  Giovenazzo  is  a  moll:  enormous  fabric,  belong- 
ing to  the  Dominicans ;  an  order  of  friars  that  enjoys  very 
large  pofle (lions  in  this  realm,  and  in  almoft  every  city  has 
a  monaftery,  generally  the  beft  in  the  place.  St.  Thomas 
of  Aquino,  one  of  the  great  luminaries  of  the  Latin  Church, 
and  a  capital  Saint  of  the  Dominican  Order,  was  a  native 
of  this  kingdom ;  confequently  a  very  natural  impulfe  of 
national  pride  and  affection  led  his  countrymen  to  revere 
his  memory,  carefs  his  brethren,  and  help  them  to  increale 
in  wealth  and  importance. 

Giovenazzo  is  an  ugly  defolate  city,  on  a  rock  hanging 
over  the  fea,  containing  about  two  thoufand  fouls.  It  is 
now  vefted  in  the  Crown,  after  having  been  a  barony  of 
the  Giudici. 

The  only  lingular   anecdote  I  meet  with  in  hiftory  con- 
cerning Giovenazzo,  is   the  devaluation   of  its  territory  in 
1437  by  the  Pope's  general,  Vitellefchi,  Patriarch  of  Alex- 
andria, 


JOURNEY    TO     TARANTO.  139 

andria,  who  invaded  Puglia  in  fupport  of  the  Angevine 
caufe.  His  hatred  to  the  Aragonefe  was  moft  virulent ; 
and  he  feemed  afraid  left  his  troops  mould  be  deterred  from 
doing  mifchief,  by  motives  of  compaflion  or  Chriftian 
charity.  To  quiet  their  fcruples,  and  roufe  their  de- 
ftructive  zeal,  he  published  an  indulgence  of  an  hundred 
days  for  every  olive  tree  any  of  his  foldiers  mould  cut  down. 
Strange  perverfion  of  the  mild  religion  of  Chrift,  who  for- 
bade his  difciples  to  avenge  his  wrongs,  and  prayed  for  his 
enemies,  while  tormented  by  their  malice !  Our  aftonifh- 
ment  ought  to  be  great,  not  that  fo  many  nations  have 
feceded  from  the  communion  of  the  Pope,  but  rather  that 
fo  many  have  remained  faithful  to  him,  amidft  fuch  horrid 
abufes  committed  by  his  minifters,  in  direct  contradiction  to 
the  doctrine  they  were  appointed  to  teach  *. 

Our  afternoon's  ride  of  twelve  miles  was  cold  and  damp, 
the  wind  blowing  fredi  from  the  fea,  and  the  way  lying 
upon  a  bare  rugged  rock,  high  above  the  water,  expofed  to 

*  To  efface  the  bad  impreffions  of  this  contradictory  conduct,  the  Romans 
are  fond  of  citing  a  tale  from  Boccaccio. — A  Jew  goes  from  Paris  to  Rome, 
in  order  to  acquire  a  juft  idea  of  the  Chriftian  religion,  as  at  the  fountain 
head.  There  he  beholds  fimony,  intrigue,  and  abominations  of  all  forts; 
and,  after  gratifying  his  curiofity  in  every  particular,  returns  to  France,, 
where  he  gives  a  detail  of  his  oblervations  to  a  friend,  by  whom  he  had  been 
long  folicited  to  abjure  Judaifm.  From  fuch  a  recital,  the  Chriftian  ex- 
pected nothing  but  an  obftinate  perieverance  in  the  old  worfhip ;  and  was 
ftruck  with  amazement,  when  the  Jew  acquainted  him  with  his  refolution  of 
requefting  baptifm  upon  the  following  grounds  of  conviclion :  That  he  had 
feen  at  Rome  every  body,  from  the  Pope  down  to  the  beggar,  ufing  all  their 
endeavours  to  fubvert  the  Chriftian  faith,  which  neverthelefs  daily  took 
deeper  and  firmer  root,  and  muft  therefore  be  of  divine  inftitution. 

t  ever  j 


ipo  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

every  blaft.      The  country  flat,  and  divided  by  (lone  walls. 
The  foil  is  naturally  poor,  and  would  fcarcely  afford  nourifri- 
ment  for  a  blade  of  grafs,   had  not  the  hufbandmen  found 
means  to  improve  and  fertilize  it  by  copious  manurings  of 
rotted  fea-weed,  of  which  there  is  an  ample  proviflon  in 
every  cove.      The  active  difpofition  of  the  cultivators  has 
converted   their  flubborn    unfavourable  land   into  the  bed: 
tilled  diRridl  in  the  province,  and  rendered  its  appearance 
luxuriantly  rich  and  cheerful,     It  yields  in  abundance  cot- 
ton, wine,  oil,  almonds,  cummin,  and  fruits  of  numberlefs 
kinds  and  delicious  flavour.      The  mod  efteemed  are  the 
grape,   fig,  pear,  and  pomegranate  :    want  of  fkill  in  the 
gardeners  prevents  the  other  forts  from  attaining  that  per- 
fection they  might  be  brought  to.    It  has  very  little  {Ilk,  and 
boafls  of  no  mines ;  but  there  are  falt-ponds,  of  great  profit 
to  the  crown,  the  fole  proprietor  of  all  fait,  foflile  or  factitious. 
A  valuable  breed  of  horfes  may  be  reckoned  among  its  ftaple 
commodities,  but  how  inferior  in  numbers  and  renown  to 
the  fluds  of  ancient  Japygia  !     I  do  not  believe  the  whole 
kingdom  now  breeds  as  many  horfes  as  were  to  be  found  in 
this  fingle  province  at  the  time  it  offered  to  fupply  Rome 
with  an  auxiliary  force  of  fifty  thoufand  foot  and  iixteen 
thoufand  horfe. — What  fvvarms  of  men,    what   droves   of 
animals,  then  fubfifted  in  a  tract  of  land,   where  at  this  day 
a  mere  handful  of  human  creatures,  and  a  few  beafts,  find 
it  difficult  to  fubfift,  and  almoft  every  year  are  indebted  to 
fupplies  of  corn  from  other  countries  I 

Bari 


& 


1 

vS 

g 

^ 

'; 

o 

h 

t 

< 

H 

\: 

m 

f. 

g 

/' 

j 

>§ 

V4 

"« 

o 

V 

^ 

> 

r* 

• 

% 

f> 

f 

H 

'• 

h 

\ 

rt 

$. 

4 

V 

Q 

V 

i 

£ 

<3 

JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  ivi 

Bari  makes  a  great  figure  at  a  diftance.  We  lodged  at 
the  Dominican  convent,  where  the  good  hofpitable  Prior 
gave  us  his  own  cell,  as  the  repairs  then  in  hand  rendered 
the  apartment  for  flrangers  abfolutely  uninhabitable.  A 
plentiful  fifh  fupper  was  provided  for  us  by  our  kind  hofr, 
anxious  to  fupport  the  reputation  of  Bari  in  that  article. 
The  abundance  and  delicacy  of  the  fifh  vouch  for  Horace's 
knowledge  of  the  peculiar  excellencies  of  his  own  coun- 
try *. 


SECTION     XXIV. 

"D  A  R  I  is  defended  by  double  walls  and  an  eld  caftle  ;  it 
occupies  a  rocky  peninfula  of  a  triangular  form,  about 
a  mile  in  circumference,  The  houfes,  which  are  in  general 
mean,  and  without  any  pretentions  to  ornamental  archi- 
tecture, are  built  upon  a  foil  raifed  by  the  ruins  of  former 
edifices  near  thirty  feet  above  the  level  of  the  fea.  Pieces 
of  old  pavement  have  been  frequently  difcovered  by  digging 
feveral  feet  below  the  prefent  flreets,  which  are  uneven, 
narrow,  crooked,  and  dirty.  The  new  rampart  above  the 
harbour,  is  the  only  clean  walk,  and  few  are  more  pleafant ; 
at  every  turn  you  catch  a  different  view  of  the  fea  and  coafr, 
ftretching  from  the  mountains  of  Garganus  to  the  hills  of 
Ofluni.     The  towns   that  rife  along  this  line,  in  various 

*  Pifcofi  masnia  Bar'. 

C  c  degrees 


i92  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

degrees  of  made,  have  a  beautiful  effect ;  and  nothing 
can  be  more  pi&urefque  than  the  fleets  of  fifhing-boats 
fleering  for  their  refpeclive  harbours  on  the  approach 
of  night.  On  fhore,  the  full  bloom  of  Spring  and  lively 
foliage,  contrafted  with  innumerable  white  cottages,  form 
an  enchanting  rural  fcene. 

There  is  fome  reafon  to  fuppofe  that  ancient  Barium 
extended  farther  into  the  country  than  the  prefent  city. 
Ifabella  of  Aragon,  Dutchefs  dowager  of  Milan,  began  to 
cut  a  canal  through  the  Ifthmus,  about  half  a  mile  from 
the  gates :  bridges  were  to  correfpond  with  the  principal 
ftreets,  and  the  intermediate  fpace  to  be  built  upon.  But 
this  grand  work,  which  would  have  redounded  to  her 
immortal  honour,  and  the  commercial  profperity  of  Ban, 
was  deftroyed  by  a  fudden  inundation  in  a  rainy  feafon,  and 
never  afterwards  attempted  to  be  refumed. 

The  Cathedral  has  no  external  beauties ;  its  infide  has 
lately  been  modernized,  ftuccoed,  and  painted,  at  the 
cxpence  of  the  Archbifhop,  whofe  revenues  do  not  exceed 
fix  thoufand  ducats  (£1,125).  Under  the  choir  is  a  chapel, 
fupported  upon  fhort  columns,  which  give  it  a  great  refem- 
blance  to  the  infide  of  the  Mofque  at  Cordova.  It  is 
incruftated  with  party-coloured  marbles-,  after  a  barbarous, 
fantaftic  deflgn ;  and  contains  the  bones  of  St.  Sabinus,  a 
patron  of  the  town.  The  fteeple  is  remarkable  for  being 
one  of  the  higheft  in  the  kingdom  *  :  a  fecond  was  begun 

*  It  is  about  two  hundred  and  fixty-three  feet  high. 

*  in 


JOURNEY    TO    TAR  ANT  O.  193 

in  1 61 7,  but  the  apprcheniion  of  earthquakes  flopped  the 
work.  The  Barian  writers  pretend  that  the  Norman  kings, 
and  fome  of  their  fuccefTors,  were  crowned  in  this  church 
with  an  iron  diadem,  which  is  kept  among  its  treafures ; 
but  Giannone  and  others  treat  the  matter  as  a  mere  fable. 

The    royal   Priory  of  St.    Nicholas   is   an   ugly   Gothic 
edifice,  erected  by  Archbifhop  Elias  and  King  Roger.      It 
is  a   celebrated   fanctuary,    whither   thoufands  of  pilgrims 
refort  to  offer  up  their  vows  at  the  fhrine  of  this  Bifhop  of 
Myra,  the  patron  of  orphans.     His  relics  are  faid  to  have 
been   brought   from  Lycia  in    1087   by   fome   merchants; 
though  the  legend   allures   us  they  floated  hither  of  their 
own  accord.      The  lands  and  immunities  with  which  it  was 
endowed  by  the  Norman  princes,  were  very  considerable ; 
and   one  of  its  earlieft  privileges   was  an  exemption  from 
every  jurifdiction  except  the  papal.      Charles  the  Firft  held 
the  Saint  in  great  veneration,  and  gave  many  folid  proofs  of 
his  munificent  devotion.      But  Charles  the  Second  put  the 
finifhing  hand  to  its  eflablifliment ;   for,   imagining  that  he 
owed  his  deliverance  from  imprifonment  and  death  to  the 
interceflion  of  his  fpecial  protector,  St.  Nicholas,  he  thought 
himfelf  bound  in   gratitude  to  confer  upon  his  church  an 
increafe  of  wealth  and  fplendour.     Accordingly  he  obtained 
from   the  Pope   many  honourable  diftinctions ;   augmented 
and  fettled  its  pofleflions ;    and  inftituted  for  himfelf,  and 
the  fucceeding  Kings  of  Naples,  the  office  of  Treafurer,  in 
which  he  was  inftalled  with  great  folemnity.     The  church 

C  c  2  is 


194  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

is  rich  in  marble  columns,  and  ornaments  aukwardly 
arranged.  Behind  the  high  altar  is  a  very  fumptuous 
monument,  erected  by  Anne  Jagellon,  wife  of  Stephen 
Battori,  King  of  Poland,  to  the  memory  of  her  mother 
Bona,  who  was  daughter  and  heirefs  of  John  Galeas,  Duke 
of  Milan,  by  Ifabella  of  Aragon,  widow  of  Sigifmund  the 
Firft,  King  of  Poland,  and  Dutchefs  of  Bari  by  inveftiture. 
In  15563  Queen  Bona  came  with  a  fplendid  retinue  to 
refide  at  Bari,  where  me  died  the  following  year.  Her 
effigy  is  placed  on  its  knees,  and  at  the  corners  ftand  four 
ftatues,  reprefenting  Poland,  Lithuania,  St.  Staniflaus,  and 
St.  Nicholas.  Here  alfo  is  a  dirty,  dark,  fubterraneous 
chapel,  the  original  place  of  worfhip,  over  which  King 
Roger  raifed  the  prefent  fabric.  Underneath  its  altar  is  a 
hole,  through  which  devout  and  curious  perfons  thruft  their 
heads,  to  behold  a  bone  or  two  fwimming  below  in  water : 
This  liquid  is  drawn  up  by  the  priefts  in  a  filver  bucket, 
and  diftributed,  under  the  name  of  Manna,  as  an  infallible 
cure  for  fore  eyes  and  difordered  ftomachs.  The  chaplains 
were  fo  bufied  in  their  refpeclive  functions,  that  I  could 
not  obtain  a  fight  of  this  tomb,  and  mufr.  therefore  content 
myfelf  with  the  accounts  I  received  from  others.  In  this 
lower  chapel  Urban  the  Second  alTembled  a  general  council 
of  the  Latin  Church,  which  in  1097  decided  in  favour  of 
the  proceflion  of  the  Holy  Ghoft,  and  anathematized  the 
"Greek  doctrine. 

The 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  i95 

The  cattle  is  fpacious  and  gloomy,  inhabited  by  the 
Governor  of  the  town,  and  a  fmall  garrifon.  Bona  repaired 
it  in  1554  for  the  reception  of  her  court. 

Religious  Orders  abound  in  Bari ;  and  fome  of  them  have 
rich  gaudy  churches,  with  good  paintings.  The  beft  are, 
a  Noli  me  tangere,  by  Pietro  da  Cortona,  at  Santa  Chiara  ; 
a  Defcent  of  the  Crofs,  by  Carlo  Cignani ;  and  an  Invention 
of  it,  by  Paul  Veronefe,  at  the  Capuchins  :  in  the  Cathe- 
dral, fome  large  pieces  by  Luca  Giordano  and  his  fcholars. 
The  convent  of  the  Jefuits  is  converted  into  a  college  for 
young  gentlemen  *. 

I  faw  no  monuments  of  antiquity,  except  a  milliary 
column,  fome  infcriptions,  and  a  lion,  of  barbarous  fculp- 
ture,  placed  in  the  great  fquare,  by  the  citizens  of  Bari,  in 
1002,  as  an  offering  of  thanks  to  the  republic  of  Venice, 
and  its  Doge,  Peter  Vefcolo,  who  came  with  a  powerful 
fleet,  and  obliged  the  Saracens  to  raife  the  fiege  of  this 
city. 

Not  far  from  the  town,  at  a  place  faid  to  have  been  the 
general  cemetery  of  ancient  Barium,  chance  has  brought  to 
light  great  quantities  of  funeral  pots,  known  among  the 
virtuofi  by  the  name  of  Etrufcan  vafes  ;  though  for  one 
that  was  moulded  in  Tufcany,  thoufands  were  baked  in 
Campania,  where  the  fame  fort  of  ware  was  in  conftant 
ufe.     They  are  greatly  admired  for  the  lightnefs  of  the  clay, 

*  There    are   twelve    convents  for  men,    five  for  women,    and  three 
hofpiuls. 

the 


ioG  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

the  elegance  of  their  forms,  and  the  profound  learning  fup- 
pofed  to  lie  hidden  beneath  the  ambiguous  characters  and 
various  groups,  painted  upon  them  in  tawny  yellow  colours, 
on  a  dark  ground.  Thefe  figures,  and  the  ffiape  of  the 
urns,  have  been  of  great  fervice  in  improving  the  tafte,  and 
multiplying  the  ideas,  of  our  artifta  and  porcelain  manu- 
facturers ;  but  have  contributed  little  to  the  advancement  of 
hiftorical  or  antiquarian  knowledge,  as  fcarce  a  fingle  group 
has  been  explained  to  the  univerfal  fatisfa&ion  of  the 
learned.  The  great  vogue  thefe  vefTcls  have  had  among  the 
rich  and  curious  collectors  of  the  age,  has  fet  the  ingenious 
Italians  to  work  in  counterfeiting  them  ;  and  it  is  now  no 
unufual  thing  for  a  young  dilettante  to  have  a  modern  jar, 
with  proper  cracks  and  dirt,  palmed  upon  him  for  a  real 
antique.  A  Barian  citizen,  lately  poffefled  of  a  noted 
ailbrtment  of  thefe  curiofities,  told  me  that  the  moft  beau- 
tiful of  them  had  been  found  in  a  large  fepulchre,  about  a 
yard  below  the  furface  of  the  earth  ;  it  contained  a  fkeleton 
inclofed  within  a  (tone  coffin,  round  which  thefe  vafes  were 
placed  empty.  Encouraged  by  this  difcovery,  he  dug  in 
feveral  other  vineyards,  and  met  with  fimilar  vaults,  but  no 
urns  of  a  fine  grain  or  finimed  workmanfhip. 

At  the  fouthern  corner  of  the  peninfula,  is  a  kind  of 
harbour,  affording  tolerable  fhelter  to  veffels  of  fmall  bur- 
den. As  Bari  had  formerly  gallies  of  its  own,  I  prefume  it 
had  a  fafer  place  for  them  to  ride  in.  Its  traffic  was  once 
very  flourifhing,  being  a  mart  for  the  Dalmatians  and  Le- 
vantines ; 


JOURNEY    TO    TARAN  TO.  197 

vantines ;  but  the  exorbitant  duties,  and  ill-judged  reftaic- 
tions  with  which  the  commerce  of  this  kingdom  is  ham- 
pered, have  long  ago  driven  merchants  to  other  markets : 
however,  the  Barians,  whofe  number  amounts  to  fixteen 
thoufand  feven  hundred,  are  an  active  pains-taking  race,  and 
carry  on  no  defpicable  trade  in  oil  and  almonds ;  befides 
thefe  two  capital  obje&s,  they  fend  a  coniiderable  quantity 
of  potafh,  foap,  anifeed,  and  even  garlick,  to  the  Ve- 
netian iilands. 


I 


SECTION      XXV. 

FIND  little  mention  made  in  ancient  authors  of  Barium, 
its  foundation  or  hiftory  ;  coins  ftruck  by  its  municipal 
magiftratesftillexiftf.  The  Lombards,  Greeks,  and  Sara- 
cens, difputed  the  poffeffion  of  this  city  in  the  ninth  cen- 
tury. In  the  tenth,  it  rofe  to  diftinction,  on  becoming  the 
refidence  of  the  Greek  Catapan  or  Viceroy,  and  of  a  metro- 
politan Bifhop.  In  1 08 g,  the  archiepifcopal  dignity  was 
confirmed  by  the  court  of  Rome.  The  book  of  conftitu- 
tions,  compiled   for   the  juridical   government  of  the  pro- 

•j-  Nummi  Barinorum. 

ARG.   1.  Cap.  MercuriimGryps  BA 

JER.    1.  Cap.  Jovis  laur.=Prora  navis  in  qua  Cupido  fcans  arcum 
tend,  fubtus  delphin  BAPINX2N. 

2.  Cap.    Palladis    gal.=Navis    &    Cupido   coronam  impon. 

trophseo. 

3.  Cap.  Jovis=:Prora  BAPI.  JE, 

vince,, 


tgt  JOURNEY    TO    TAR  AN  TO. 

rince,   and  ftill  in  ufe,  is  a  refpe&able  voucher  for  the  im- 
portance and  policy  of  Bari,  during  the  middle  ages. 

bout  the  year  1000,  Bari  became  the  fcene  of  con- 
spiracies and  revolutions :  here  Melo  formed  the  project  of 
the  rirfl:  confederacy  again  (l  the  Grecian  Emperors,  and 
though  he  did  not  live  to  fee  any  great  fuccefs  attend  his 
fchemes,  yet  it  was  owing  to  his  fagacity  in  pointing  out 
the  way,  that  the  Normans  were  enabled  to  expell  the 
Greeks  from  Italy ;  out  of  refpeel:  for  his  memory, 
thofe  conquerors  raifed  his  fon  Argirius  to  the  fupreme 
command  over  their  league.  Bari  did  not  fteadily  adhere 
to  Melo's  plans,  but  foon  returned  to  the  obedience  of  the 
eaftern  Emperor,  and  was  one  of  the  laft  and  iirmeft  fup- 
ports  of  his  dominion. 

In  1067,  Robert  Guifcard  inverted  it  by  fea  and  land, 
and  to  prevent  fuccours  being  thrown  in,  inclofed  it  with  a 
femicircle  of  mips  joined  together  by  chains  and  booms, 
each  extremity  having  a  bridge  of  communication  with  the 
camp,  which  completed  the  line  of  circumvallation.  This 
blockade  lafted  four  years,  during  which,  both  parties  ex- 
haufted  every  art  of  attack  and  defence  practifed  in  thofe 
ages,  when  the  machines  for  demolifhing  fortifications  were 
clumfy  and  feeble,  and  when  famine,  more  frequently  than 
force,  compelled  towns  to  furrender.  The  Barians,  rinding 
themfelves  worn  out  with  hard  fare  and  inceffant  alarms, 
and  forefeeing  that  the  obftinacy  of  their  adverfary  would  at 
length  overcome  their  powers  of  defence,  endeavoured  to 
avert  their  ruin  by  cutting  off  the  chief  of  the  befiegers; 

5  with 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  199 

with  this  intent,  one  Amerinus  ftole  out  of  the  city  by 
night,  and  drawing  up  to  the  quarters  of  Guifcard,  at- 
tempted to  kill  him,  by  thrufting  a  poifoned  lance  through 
the  wattles  of  his  hut ;  but  the  weapon  proved  too  fhort, 
and  Robert,  as  we  are  told  by  his  honefl  biographer  Mala- 
terra,  took  care  to  have  the  wickered  walls  of  his  cabbin 
well  plaftered  over,  to  prevent  fuch  attacks  for  the  future. 

Earl  Roger  foon  after  joined  his  brother  with  a  ftrong 
fleet,  and  helped  him  to  carry  on   his  afTaults  with  fuch 
vigour,  that  the  befieged  were  on  the  point  of  capitulating, 
when  their  hopes  were  revived  by  the  appearance  of  an  Im- 
perial fquadron   coming   to    their  relief,    under  Jofceline 
d'Avranches,   a  Norman   gentleman,  who  had   fought  his 
fortune  in  Greece,  and  ingratiated  himfelf  with  the  Emperor. 
The  Greek  mips  were  no  fooner  defcried,   than  Roger  flip- 
ped his  cables,  and  ran  out  to  fea  to  give  them  battle.     Jof- 
celine was  true  to  his  truft,  and  bore  down  gallantly  upon 
the  Earl :   the  engagement  was  fharp,    but  very  fhort;  for 
the  Greeks  were  no  match  for  the  Norman  veterans.     The 
Imperial  vefTels  were  taken,  funk,  or  difperfcd,   and  their 
admiral  made  a  prifoner.     Roger  returned  triumphant,  and 
Bari  opened  its  gates  to  the  conquerors. 

To  fecure  the  allegiance  of  fo  capital  a  town,  a  citadel 
was  afterwards  erected  by  King  Roger  ;  but  it  was  fcarcely 
finimed,  when  the  Emperor  Lotharius  razed  it  to  the 
ground.  Upon  the  retreat  of  the  Imperialifta,  Jacinthus 
ailumed  the  title  of  Prince,  and  refufed  to  fubmit  to  the 
King,  who  laid  (lege  to  the  city.    Bari  was  then  a  populous 

D  d  place, 


20o  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

place,  and  made  an  obftinate  refiftance.  The  capitulation 
was  honourable,  but  rendered  invalid  by  a  claufe,  ftipulating, 
that  all  the  Royalifh,  taken  during  the  fiege,  were  to  be 
delivered  up  fare  and  unhurt.  When  the  King  made  his 
entry  into  Bari,  a  Norman  captive,  who  had  been  deprived 
cf  hh  fight,  and  otherwife  cruelly  treated  by  the  orders  of 
Jacinthus,  was  led  through  the  crowd  to  the  feet  of  his  fo- 
vereign,  to  claim  juftice  and  vengeance.  Roger,  willing  to 
ieize  any  pretext  for  annulling  the  capitulation,  alTembled 
his  council,  declared  the  treaty  void,  and  caufed  Jacinthus, 
with  his  principal  adherents,  to  be  hanged. 

Majone,  prime  minifter  to  William  the  Bad,  was  born  at 
Bari,  the  fon  of  a  notary;  but  the  affection,  we  may 
prefume,  this  favourite  retained  for  the  place  of  his  nativity, 
did  not  prevent  William  from  treating  it  with  the  utmoffc 
feverity.  The  Barians  had  joined  in  the  grand  rebellion 
againft:  him,  had  demoliflied  his  caftle  and  palace,  and 
given  the  furniture  as  plunder  to  their  foldiers ;  therefore, 
when  the  chief  citizens  fell  on  their  knees  before  him,  fuincr- 
for  mercy,  he  anfwered  all  their  Amplications  with  thefe 
words :  "  You  did  not  fpare  my  houie,  how  can  you  ex- 
41  pect  I  mould  fpare  yours?"  They  were  ordered  to  dis- 
lodge within  the  fpace  of  two  days,  and  their  dwellings  to 
be  levelled  to  the  ground.  The  city  mult  have  rifen  very 
fpeedily  out  of  its  ruins,  as  the  Emperor  Frederick  eftablifh- 
ed  an  annual  fair  here  in  1233,  and  in  1248,  ordered  the 
town  to  be  deflroyed3  to  punifh  the  inhabitants  for  treafon- 
^able  practices* 

2  The 


JOURNEY    TO     TARANTO.  201 

The  firft  perfon  enfeoffed  with  the  honours  of  Bari  was 
Bohemund  of  Antioch,  who  accepted  of  thefe  and  other 
demefhes  in  lieu  of  his  birthright.  The  fecond  was  Tancred 
fon  of  King  Roger  ;  Jacinthus  had  them  next.  The  Princes 
of  Taranto,  defcended  from  Charles  the  Second,  held  them 
afterwards.  Their  heirefs  carried  this  barony  into  the  houfe 
of  Baux,  which  was  difpoiTefTed  by  Joan  the  Firft.  During 
her  reign,  John  Pipino  Earl  of  Minervino,  ufurped  this  fief 
for  a  fhort  time.  He  was  the  fon  of  an  officer  of  the  re- 
venue, who,  having  amafTed  great  riches  by  the  manage- 
ment of  the  public  money,  or  by  treafures  found  at  Lucera, 
where  he  fuperintended  the  expulfion  of  the  Saracens,  pur- 
chafed  large  eftates  for  his  children.  John  was  an  empty 
vain-glorious  man,  deceived  into  a  high  opinion  of  his  own 
confequence  by  the  flattery  of  mifcreants  and  parafitcs,  who 
flocked  from  all  parts  to  (hare  the  prodigal  bounty  of  this 
new-made  nobleman.  The  fuccefs  that  attended  an  expe- 
dition againft  Nicholas  Rienzi,  the  famous  tribune  of 
Rome,  completed  his  intoxication.  The  Orfini  and  Co- 
lonna  factions,  being  overpowered  by  that  demagogue, 
craved  affiftance  from  Minervino,  who  always  entertained 
a  formidable  band  of  foldiers  ready  for  mifchief.  Pipino 
embraced  the  opportunity  of  employing  his  troops,  defeated 
Nicholas,  and  returned  to  Puglia  mad  with  joy  and  pride. 
His  infolence,.  rapacity,  and  excefles  now  difdained  all 
bounds;  and  half  the  neighbouring  provinces  were  defolated 
by  his  lawlefs  freebooters.  The  royal  anger  was  at  laft 
roufed,  and  a  complete  overthrow,  near  Afcoli,  crufhed  all 

D  d  2  his 


ao2  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

his  glories;  his  adherents  fled,  and  Pipino  himfelf,  aban- 
doned and  betrayed,  was  taken  and  hanged  at  a  window  of 
the  caflle  of  Altamura;  his  brothers  fhared  his  unhappy 
fate:  and  thus  one  generation  faw  the  rife  and  fall  of  this 
powerful  family. 

Ladiflaus  granted  Bari  to  the  Orfini  Princes  of  Taranto, 
who  afterwards  enjoyed  it  almoft  as  a  free  fovereignty, 
having  extorted  from  Alphonfus  the  Firft  the  privilege  of 
exporting  all  manner  of  commodities  without  paying  any 
duties  to  the  crown.  This  exemption  brought  in  great  riches, 
and  rendered  them  very  formidable,  as  Ferdinand  the  Firft 
found  to  his  forrow,  in  his  wars  with  the  Barons.  While 
Aragon  and  Anjou  were  contending,  James  Caldora,  a 
famous  Abruzzefe  chieftain  feized  upon  Bari,  and  his  fon 
Anthony  affumed  the  title  of  Duke. 

Upon  the  extinction  of  the  houfe  of  Taranto,  Bari  re- 
verted to  the  King,  and  was  fettled  by  Alphonfus  the 
Second,  upon  the  family  of  Sforza,  in  confederation  of  the 
marriage  of  his  daughter  Ifabella  with  the  Duke  of  Milan. 
According  to  treaty,  thefe  eftates  became  the  property  of 
Bona  Queen  of  Poland,  at  whofe  death  this  duchy  re- 
turned to  the  crown ;  to  which  it  has  ever  fince  remained 
annexed. 

Our  flay  at  Bari  was  prolonged  by  my  fellow-traveller's 
being  feized  with  a  feverifh  complaint,  which  at  firft  wore 
an  alarming  appearance,  but  foon  took  a  favourable  turn : 
however,  he  did  not  think  it  fafe  to  continue  his  journey 

farther 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  203: 

ferther  fouth,  as  the  weather  was  growing  very  warm;  and 
therefore  determined  to  return  to  Naples  as  foon  as  poflible. 
I  continued  our  original  route  on  the  29th  of  April. 

The  firft  place  I  came  to  was  Mola  di  Bari,  a  town  con- 
taining fix  thoufand  fouls,  prettily  fituated  on  rocks,  and  very 
fhewy  from  afar  :  what  it  may  be  on  a  nearer  view  I  know 
not,  as  I  rode  paft  without  flopping,  my  memorandums 
making  no  mention  of  any  thing  remarkable  in  it.  I  next 
pafTed  by  the  Francifcan  convent  of  Cape  San  Vito,  delight- 
fully feated  among  the  olive  groves,  on  a  neck  of  land  jut- 
ting out  into  the  fea.  Here  travellers  ufually  dine  or  fleep ; 
but  as  it  had  been  reprefented  to  me  as  a  very  bad  place  of 
baiting,  I  rode  a  mile  farther  for  dinner  to  Polignano,  a 
fmall  city,  perched,  like  a  bird's  neft,  on  a  crag  riling  per- 
pendicularly out  of  the  water.  The  bimop  refides  at  Mola; 
The  Caraccioli,  Rodolvich,  Toraldi,  Stendardi,  Boffa,  and 
Lietoj  have  been  fucceflively  lords  of  this  place. 

The  foil  of  the  whole  tratl  I  travelled  through  this 
morning  is  fhallow  and  rocky,  covered  with  olive  trees,  which 
are  the  principal  object  of  the  cultivator's- care,  as  oil  is  the 
main  fupport  of  commerce  in  this  province.  The  rocks 
abound  with  pedlinites  of  a  large  fize. 

While  my  dinner  was  preparing,   I  amufed  myfelf  with 

looking   at  fome  peafants  cafting  wooden  balls   with  their 

feet;   they  are  extremely  dextrous  at  the  fport,    lifting  the 

ball  up  with  their  toe,    and  toiling  it  a  confiderable  length, 

along  a  high  road  as  rugged  and  full  of  protuberances  as. 

the  Glaciers  of  Switzerland. 

4  lap 


204;  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

In  the  afternoon,  I  had  a  pleafant  ride  of  five  miles, 
through  noble  olive  woods,  to  Monopoli.  This  city,  like 
mod  others  on  the  coaft,  deceives  one  by  its  outward 
appearance  into  an  opinion  of  extent  and  magnificence, 
which  vanifh.es  on  clofer  inflection.  The  environs  are 
neatly  planted  with  fig,  almond,  and  fome  few  lemon  and 
orange  trees.  I  faw  but  one  garden  that  had  any  fhew  of 
thofe  evergreen  fruit-trees  to  boaft  of,  Olives  are  the 
grand  concern.  The  extent  of  the  plantations  of  this 
valuable  tree  is  really  aftonifhing.  I  was  aflured  that  the 
olive  woods  reach  from  Monopoli  twelve  miles,  on  three 
fides,  without  interruption.  There  are  no  great  Barons 
in  its  immediate  neighbourhood ;  and  every  burgher  has  his 
maflaria  or  farm,  which  he  cultivates  on  his  own  account. 
This  territory  is  faid  to  yield  annually  twenty  thoufand  falme 
of  oil. 

Monopoli  is  a  dark  difagreeable  town,  with  narrow, 
crooked  ftreets,  and  very  lofty  flat-roofed  houfes.  It  is 
fuppofed  to  have  been  originally  a  ftation  called  Egnatiolum, 
and  to  have  grown  to  the  fize  and  dignity  of  a  city,  by  the 
ruin  of  Gnatia.  In  the  firft  Norman  partition,  it  fell  to 
the  (hare  of  Hugh.  The  Capeci  were  for  fome  time  its 
poffeffors. 


JOURNEVTOTARANTO.  505 


N 


SECTION     XXVI. 

EXT  morning  I  was  on  horfeback  before  fun-rife,  in- 
tending to  make  a  very  long  day's  journey  ;  and  being 
appreheniive,  from  the  heavy  feel  of  the  air,  that  I  fhould 
fuffer  from  intenfe  heat  in  the  noon- tide  hours.  My  pro- 
gnoses were  but  too  juft  ;  for  a  hotter  fun,  and  a  more 
ftifling  fultrinefs,  could  not  be  felt  in  the  dog-days. 

The  foil  of  the  country  is  a  reddifh  petrifaction,  evidently 
the  fame  as  the  rocks  upon  the  fhore.  As  I  rode  along,  the 
huge  piles  of  fea-weed,  which  almoft  form  a  rampart  on  the 
coaft,  appeared  to  be  equally  unaffected  either  by  wind  or 
waves.  I  alighted  feveral  times  to  examine  thefe  heaps,  and 
found  different  degrees  of  hardnefs  in  them.  Some  were 
quite  moift  and  mucilaginous ;  others  already  petrified  on 
the  furface,  but  foft  and  pliable  within  ;  others  again  tho- 
roughly pervaded  by  the  ftony  humour. 

The  fwarth  on  the  fands  is  very  poor,  and  produces  few 
uncommon  plants.  One  is  a  beautiful  poppy,  of  a  bright 
yellow  colour. 

At  a  mile's  diftance  from  Monopoli,  the  landfcape  ex- 
pands itfelf,  and  on  the  right  hand  difcovers  a  long  range  of 
woody  hills.  The  olive  grounds  in  the  plain  are  remarkable 
for  their  great  extent,  thicknefs  of  foliage,  and  fize  of  trees.. 

They 


»o<5  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

They  are  pruned  into  the  form  of  a  cup,  by  cutting  out  the 
centric  upright  branches,  in  the  fame  manner  as  gardeners 
trim  goofeberry  bullies.  This  treatment  lets  in  an  equal 
fhare  of  fun  and  ventilation  to  every  part,  and  brings  on  an 
univerfal  maturity. 

Six  miles  farther  are  the  ruins  of  Gnatia,  the  laft  ftage 
but  one  of  Horace's  journey  to  Brundufium,  and  now  called 
Torre  d'Agnazzo.  Little  remains  except  part  of  the  ram- 
parts, which,  near  the  fea,  are  entire  as  high  up  as  the 
bottom  of  the  battlements.  Sixteen  courfes  of  large  ftones 
are  ftill  complete ;  and  the  thicknefs  of  this  bulwark  is 
exactly  eight  yards ;  an  extaordinary  breadth,  which  I 
afcertained  by  repeated  meafurements.  The  town  feems  to 
have  been  fquare,  and  its  principal  ftreets  drawn  in  ftraight 
lines.  On  the  moft  elevated  part  is  a  watch-tower;  and 
probably  this  was  the  fituation  of  the  ancient  citadel.  Near 
it  are  fome  arches  and  vaults.  The  view  towards  Monopoli 
is  extremely  beautiful. 

Want  of  water  caufed  the  deftru&ion  of  Gnatia ;  a 
fcarcity  I  had  an  opportunity  of  being  made  fenfible  of,  and 
which  naturally  explains  Horace's  phrafe  of 

Gnatia  lymphis 


Iratis  exftrudta." 


The  few  paftoral  inhabitants  of  thefe  ruins  have  no  temples 
left  to  melt  incenfe  in  without  fire,  for  the  diverfion  or 
aftonifhment  of  pafTengers.     But  the  art  is  not  loft  in  the 

kingdom ; 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  so? 

kingdom ;  and,  whether  preferved  by  tradition  or  revived 
by  ingenuity,  is  flill  pra&ifed  with  fuccefs. 

The  flone  employed  in  building  along  this  coaft,  is  cut 
with  great  eafe  in  every  part  of  the  country.  It  is  a  foft 
whitifh  concretion,  that  hardens  by  being  expofed  to  the 
air.  The  method  ufed  by  the  quarrymen  is  extremely 
fimple :  they  clear  away  the  foil  from  the  level  parts,  and 
then  hew  out  regular  cubes,  which  leave  vacancies  in  the 
rock  exadtly  refembling  ponds,  baths,  or  refervoirs,  with 
flights  of  fleps  all  round  leading  down  to  the  bottom. 
Thefe  holes  are  frequently  filled  up  with  earth,  and  olive 
fets  planted  in  them. 

The  cyftus,  which  grows  in  great  abundance  on  thefe 
wafte  lands,  exhaled  (b  powerful  an  effluvium,  when  the 
fun  had  been  rifen  fome  time,  that  I  was  overcome  with  it. 
One  of  the  fervants,  already  half  dead  with  heat  and 
fatigue,  had  the  additional  ill-fortune  of  being  frightened 
almofl  out  of  his  wits.  As  we  were  trotting  along  the 
burning  fands,  he  on  a  fudden  gave  a  loud  fliriek,  and 
threw  himfelf  from  his  horfe,  crying  out  that  he  was  a 
dead  man,  for  either  a  fcorpion,  a  tarantula,  or  a  ferpent 
had  flung  him  on  the  inftep.  On  pulling  off  his  boot,  I 
found  that  his  terrors  and  pains  were  caufed  by  the  rays  of 
the  fun,  which  had  penetrated  through  a  hole  in  the  upper 
leather,  and  raifed  a  blifler  on  the  fkin.  The  prepoflcrous 
ge  flu  res  and  expreflions  of  this  lazzarone  fupported  my 
fpirits  till   we  arrived  at  a  fmall  fingle  houfe,    confifling 

E  e  of 


ao8  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

of  a  kitchen,  loft,  and  ft  able,  lately  erected  for  the  conve- 
nience of  travellers,  by  the  agents  of  the  Order  of  Malta, 
to  which  the  land  belongs.  The  kitchen  was  too  hot  for 
me  to  breathe  in,  and  the  other  two  apartments  as  full  of 
fleas  as  Shakefpeare's  inn  at  Rochefter ;  fo  that  my  only 
refuge  was  the  narrow  made  of  the  houfe,  which  was  con- 
traded  every  minute  more  and  more,  as  the  fun  advanced 
towards  the  meridian.  Behind  the  houfe  then  I  fat  down, 
to  dine  upon  the  fare  we  had  brought  in  our  wallet.  Un- 
luckily I  had  not  thought  of  wine  or  water,  neither  of 
which  were  now  to  be  had  tolerably  drinkable ;  fo  that  I 
was  obliged  to  content  myfelf  with  the  water  of  a  ciftern 
full  of  tadpoles,  and  qualify  it  with  a  large  quantity  of  wine, 
that  refembled  treacle  much  more  than  the  juice  of  the 
grape.  While  I  held  the  pitcher  to  my  lips,  I  formed  a 
dam  with  a  knife,  to  prevent  the  little  frogs  from  flipping 
down  my  throat.  Till  that  day  I  had  had  but  an  imperfect 
idea  of  thirft. 

As  foon  as  we  had  recruited  our  ftrength  and  fpirits,  we 
left  the  inn,  and  retired  gradually  from  the  fea,  drawing  up 
towards  the  hills,  through  olive  groves  that  afforded  us  a 
very  welcome  (hade.  Flocks  of  turtle  doves  fkimmed  acrofs 
the  road  ;  but,  though  they  frequently  fluttered  near  me,  I 
refpected  the  virtues  afcribed  to  them  by  the  poets  too  much 
to  think  of  mooting  at  them  : — young  ones  are  efteemed  a 
great  dainty.  The  mode  of  killing  them  is  very  fmgular : 
When  the  fun  is  vertical,  and  the  fky  clear,  a  couple  of 

8  fportfmen 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  «o* 

fportfmen  drive  into  the  olive  grounds  in  an  open  chaife, 
and  move  flowly,  but  continually,  round  the  trees,  till  they 
Ipy  a  dove  fitting  upon  the  boughs.  The  poor  bird,  ftruck 
with  the  unufual  fight,  or  giddy  with  the  rotation  of  the 
wheels,  fixes  its  eyes  upon  them,  and  whirls  its  head 
round  in  imitation  of  their  motion.  When  the  eye  of 
the  turtle  is  thus  fafcinated,  one  of  the  fowlers  flips  out  of 
the  carriage,  and  fires  his  piece.  Little  ftone  bafons  full  of 
water  are  alfo  frequently  placed  for  the  doves  to  drink  at, 
while  the  mooter  lies  in  ambufcade  behind  a  bum. 

At  the  end  of  fix  miles  we  rode  up  to  Oftuni,  a  poor 
epifcopal  city,  on  a  fteep  rocky  brow,  overlooking  a  whole 
foreft  of  olive  trees,  and  a  long  range  of  coaft.  In  the 
fourteenth  century  it  belonged  to  the  Sanfeverini,  and  after- 
wards to  the  Zevallas  *. 

*  On  a  green  before  the  church  of  the  Capuchin  friars,  the  Duke  delle 
Noci  was  killed  in  fingle  combat  by  the  Duke  of  Martina  in  1664  •,  at  which 
time  the  fury  of  fafhionable  murder  raged  with  great  violence  among  the 
proud  ungovernable  nobles. 

A  molt  famous  duel  was  fought  the  fame  year  between  Don  Francis 
CarafFa  and  Don  Julius  Aquaviva,  who,  after  many  bootlefs  arbitrations, 
finding  themfelves  under  an  indifpenfable  neceffity  of  deciding  a  family  quar- 
rel by  the  fword,  fought  for  a  proper  place  to  engage  in.  No  Roman 
Catholic  ftate  would  allow  of  a  public  duel,  becaufe  fuch  combats  are 
anathematized  by  the  ecclefiaftical  canons-,  they  therefore  applied  to  the 
imperial  city  of  Nuremberg,  and  obtained  leave  to  draw  regular  lifts,  and  to 
come  to  action,  under  the  fafeguard  of  that  magiftracy,  in  prefence  of  the 
nobility  of  the  country.  Don  Francis  was  difabled  by  a  wound  in  the  arm, 
and  the  victory  adjudged  to  his  antagonift. — The  doughty  knights  embraced 
on  the  field  of  battle,  and  returned  together  very  good  friends  to  Naples. 
Such  an  adventure  as  this  caft  a  ridicule  upon  the  practice,  and  co-operated 
with  the  growing  effeminacy  of  manners  in  (lifting  the  fpirit  of  duelling. 

E  e   2  We 


2I0  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

We  now  entered  a  more  agreeable  atmofphere,  where  the 
heat  was  tempered  by  a  gentle  breeze.  The  appearance  of 
Oftuni  was  fo  far  from  inviting,  that  I  determined  to  travel 
to  Francavilla  that  night.  The  road  was  ftony,  and  conti- 
nually up  and  down  hill,  through  a  poor  defert  country, 
much  covered  with  thin  woods  of  unhealthy  flunted  oaks. 
Thefe  hills  are  the  fouth-ealt  extremity  of  a  ridge  that  runs 
out  from  the  Apennines,  at  a  point  many  miles  to  the 
north-eafr.  of  our  road :  we  never  came  in  fight  of  any 
mountains.  From  hence  to  the  cape  of  Santa  Maria  di 
Leuca  *,  there  is  not  a  fingie  eminence  of  any  confequence ; 
the  whole  tract  is  rather  an  uneven  plain  than  a  hilly 
country.  Without  rivers,  and  almoit  without  rivulets,  yet 
from  fome  extraordinary  quality  in  the  foil,  and  the  vapours, 
of  fubterraneous  lakes,  this  province  is  furprifingly  fertile 
and  vegetative.  The  exiftence  of  underground  refervoirs  is 
proved  by  the  fhallownefs  of  the  wells,  and  by  the  pools 
that  appear  wherever  the  level  is  low.  All  the  rain  that 
falls  is  fwallowed  up,  before  it  can  reach  the  fea,  by  large 
cracks  in  the  rocks,  called  Voraggini,  or  AbyiTes,  marked 
down  in  the  maps  as  lakes.  In  this  corner  of  Italy  every 
geographer,  except  Zannoni,  draws,  from  the  Apennines 
near  Venofa  to  the  Capo  di  Leuca,  an  uninterrupted  diagonal 
chain  of  lofty  mountains,  upon  which  is  written,  Branch  of 
the  Apennines.   This  line  is  engraved  of  a  fize  that  would,  if 

*  The  ancient  Promontorium  Salentinum,  which  terminates  the  peninfula 
of  Japygia,  at  the  tip  of  the  heel  of  the  boot,  to  which  geographers  have 
likened  the  fhape  of  Italy. 

it 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  ail 

it  exifled,    render   the    communication   between    Bari   and 
Taranto,    as   difficult   as   the  pafTage   of   Mount   Cenis   or 
Sempion  in   the  Alps.      Had  thefe  geographers  vifited  the 
country  they  were  about  to  delineate,  or  even  enquired  of 
the  common  carriers  how  they  pafs  this  imaginary  Cordil- 
lera, they  would   foon   have   been   made   fenfible  of  their 
error  ;   for  fo  little  is  the  whole  trad:  aforefaid  raifed  above 
the  level  of  the  fea,   that,  from  the  round  Knolls  of  Oria, 
a  centrical  point  between  Taranto  and  Brindiii,   there  are 
few  rifings  high  enough  to  prevent  the  eye  from  command- 
ing a  view  as  far  as  the  fea,   in  each  direction.     Had  they 
attended  to  the  idea  conveyed  by  Virgil,  in  his  defcription 
of  the  diftant  appearance  of  this  peninfula,  they  might  have 
fufpecled  fomething  of  the  truth.    That  fenfible  poet  plainly 
indicates  the  lownefs  of  the  Salentine  fhores,   in  the  third 
book  of  the   iEneid,   where  his   Hero   relates   the   voyage 
fouthward,  from  that  point  of  Epirus  called  the  Acroce- 
raunian  mountains,  now  Monti  della  Chimera,  which  are 
not  fixty  miles  from  Otranto : 

Provehimur  pelago  vicina  Ceraunia  juxta  ; 
Unde  iter  Italiam,  curfufque  breviffimus  undis— 
******         *         * 

Jamque  rubefcebat  ftellis  Aurora  fugatis, 
Cum  femel  objcuros  colks,  fjumikrnque  videmus 
Italiam  *'. 


*  "  We  are  carried  on  the  waves  near  the  Ceraunian  cape,  from  which 

"  point  is  the  fhorteft  paffage  to  Italy. And  now  Aurora  rofe  blufhing, 

"  after- putting  the  ftars  to  flight;  when  fuddenly  we  behold  the  dufiy  bills 
**  and  hwfoeres  of  Italy." 

Could 


2iz  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

Could  they  fuppofe  fo  exa&  a  defcriber  would  have  called 
Italy  low,  and  fpoken  only  of  hills,  lighted  up  by  the  rifing 
fun,  if  there  had  been  any  mountains  in  the  Salentine  terri- 
tory, where,  from  the  narrownefs  of  the  land,  they  muft 
have  reached  to  the  very  edge  of  the  water  ?  Every  one 
that  knows  any  thing  of  the  Italian  atmofphere,  muft 
recollect  that  fixty  miles  is  not  a  fufficient  diftance  to  hide 
fuch  mountains  as  the  Apennines  from  the  fight,  if  they 
really  did  extend  their  branches  fo  near  to  Greece ;  and 
that  to  navigators  their  tops  would  be  vifible  in  the  morn- 
ing, long  before  the  low  country  at  their  feet. 

Towards  dufk,  we  left  the  high  lands,  and  traverfing  a 
well-cultivated  champaign  country,  arrived  at  Francavilla, 
where,  by  the  Prince's  orders,  I  was  received  and  treated 
with  extraordinary  refpect. 


SECTION     XXVII. 

OUGHT  to  efleem  the  next  day  as  one  of  the  moft 
brilliant  of  my  life ;  for  I  received  honours  fufficient  to 
turn  the  head  of  a  plain  Englifh  gentleman.  As  foon  as  I 
was  dreft,  an  audience  was  demanded  by  Don  Domenico, 
the  Steward,  who  having  formerly  officiated  in  the  capacity 
of  Clerk  of  the  Chamber  to  the  Princefs,  was  perfectly 
qualified  for  the  poft  of  Mafter  of  the  Ceremonies.  Being 
admitted   in   his  gala   fuit  of  many  colours  and  antique 

cut, 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  213 

cut,  he  expreffed  his  difappointment  on  finding  he  had  the 
honour  of  receiving  but  one  Nobik  Signore  inftead  of  two, 
as  his  mafter  had  notified.  After  I  had  explained  the 
reafon  of  my  friend's  abfence,  he  launched  out  into  pathetic 
compliments  of  condolance,  and  promifed  me,  that  the 
chaplain  mould  offer  up  prayers  for  his  fpeedy  recovery. 
And  now  the  Rector  of  the  College,  the  Father  Guardian 
of  the  Capuchins,  and  the  Magiftrates,  entered  in  great 
form.  The  firft  addrefTed  me  in  a  fhort,  polite  fpeech, 
which  he  uttered  with  fome  embarraflment.  My  introducer 
of  Ambafladors  whifpered  in  my  ear,  that  the  Rector  had 
compofed  a  very  eloquent  harangue  for  two  illuftrious 
travellers ;  but  on  finding  only  one,  had  been  obliged  to 
lay  it  afide,  as  he  could  not  at  a  minute's  warning  adapt  to 
the  fingular  all  the  figures  of  rhetoric  which  were  ad- 
drefTed to  the  dual  number.  What  I  loft  in  his  difcourfe, 
was  made  up  to  me  by  the  friar,  who,  with  a  nafal  tone 
and  many  bows,  beftowed  upon  me  every  poflible  virtue, 
and  ftruck  out  fuch  wild  metaphors,  as  quite  enchanted  his 
auditors,  and  almoft  threw  me  ofT  my  guard.  He  ac- 
quainted the  company,  that  I  travelled  into  foreign  parts  to 
collect  oil  for  the  lamps  of  fcience  in  my  own  country ; 
that  my  mother  wit  was  the  wick,  and  my  eloquence  the 
flame. — I  was  happy  to  difmifs  the  orators,  and  was  ac- 
companying them  to  the  door,  when  my  Mentor  flopped 
me  fhort,  left  I  mould  make  too  great  a  conceflion. 

I  was 


si^  JOURNEY    TO    T  ARAN  TO. 

I  was  afterwards  conducted  to  the  chapel,  where  the 
town-muficians  played,  and  a  cloud  of  incenfe  darkened  the 
place  during  the  whole  fervice ;  after  which  Don  Domenico 
led  me  out  to  fee  the  town,  or  rather  to  be  feen,  for  we 
had  a  mob  at  our  heels  all  the  way,  I  was  heartily  lick  of 
my  glory,  and  mould  have  fled  from  it,  had  I  not  been 
fenfible  how  great  a  mortification  it  would  have  been  to  my 
holts. 

Francavilla  is  large  and  regularly  built ;  the  ftreets  wide 
and  ftraight ;  the  houfes  fhewy,  though  in  a  heavy  ftyle  of 
architecture.  Since  the  year  1734,  when  a  considerable 
part  of  the  town  was  thrown  down  by  an  earthquake,  the 
inhabitants  are  fo  afraid  of  another  vifitation,  that  they  dare 
not  raife  their  dwellings  more  than  one  ftory  above  the 
ground-floor.  The  main  ftreet  would  be  thought  hand- 
fome  even  in  a  capital  city.  The  avenues  to  the  gates  are 
well  planted,  and  afford  a  pleafant  made.  The  inhabitants, 
in  number  twelve  thoufand,  fubfift  by  the  fale  of  oil  and 
cotton,  of  which  laft  they  make  very  fine  ftockings.  A 
great  quantity  of  tobacco  is  raifed  in  the  lordfhip,  which, 
by  a  compofition  entered  into  with  the  farmers  of  the  reve- 
nue, is  allowed  to  be  cured  and  manufactured  here  into  a 
fpecies  of  InufT,  in  colour,  flavour,  and  foftnefs,  not  a  bad 
imitation  of  the  Spanim. 

The  Capuchins  have  a  fpacious  convent,  and  a  new 
church,  airily  and   fantaflically  fitted   up :  the  pulpit  and 

5  confeffionals 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  5I5 

confefllonals  are  of  inlaid  wood,  worked  by  the  hands  of  a 
friar. 

The  college,  directed  by  priefts  of  the  Scuolepie,  is  a 
large  edifice,  with  many  handfome  halls  and  galleries. 
They  teach,  as  far  as  philofophy  inclufivcly,  to  about  half 
a  dozen  boarders,  and  a  considerable  number  01  day- 
fcholars. 

The  principal  pariQi- church  is  new,  gay,  and  well 
lighted  ;  but  fo  fcuccoed,  feftooned,  and  flowery,  that  the 
whole  decoration  is  a  mere  chaos.  The  plan  was  drawn  at 
Rome,  but  executed  by  a  Puglian  architect,  who  from 
caprice  or  blunder  reverfed  the  difpofition  of  the  parts,  and 
opened  the  chief  door  at  the  head  of  the  Latin  crof^  a 
place  ufually  allotted  to  the  altar  and  choir.  This  altera- 
tion is  no  improvement  in  the  art,  but,  on  the  contrary, 
an  experiment  productive  of  very  aukward  effects.  In  a 
fide  chapel  is  a  dark  portrait  of  the  Madonna,  which  was 
the  caufe  of  the  foundation  of  the  town. 

In  13 10,  as  Philip  of  Anjou,  Prince  of  Taranto,  was 
hunting  in  the  forefts,  which  then  covered  the  face  of  the 
country,  a  flag  was  driven  into  a  grotto,  where  the  huntf- 
men  difcovered  this  wonder-working  image.  It  was  re- 
moved with  great  folemnity  to  a  chapel,  and,  in  order  to 
encourage  people  to  fettle  round  it  for  its  defence,  Philip 
granted  lands  to  all  comers,  with  ten  years  exemption  from 
taxes  ;  and,  as  a  pledge  of  the  fincerity  of  his  intentions, 
named  the   colony  Frojtcavilla^  or  Freetown  ;  and  gave  it 

F  f  an 


216  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

an  olive  tree,  the  emblem   of  peace  and  fertility,   for  its 
armorial  feal. 

The  number  of  thefe  devout  paintings  extant  in  the 
Neapolitan  dominions,  and  faid  by  their  legends  to  have 
been  accidentally  difcovered  in  caverns,  woods,  or  wells, 
need  not  furprife  us,  if  we  recollect  that  the  Saracens 
frequently  over-ran  thefe  provinces.  On  the  approach  of 
the  Barbarians,  it  is  natural  to  fuppofe  that  the  Greeks, 
who  were  undoubtedly  the  painters  of  fuch  portraits,  would 
hide  what  was  moft  precious  to  them,  and  moft  obnoxious 
to  the  infults  of  the  infidels.  The  hiding-places  were  for- 
gotten, either  from  the  long  refidence  of  the  invaders  in 
the  kingdom,  or  the  deftruction  of  thofe  who  fecreted  the 
holy  treafures. 

The  Prince's  manfion  is  a  quadrangular  caftle,  furrounded 
by  a  dry  ditch.  The  apartments  are  fpacious ;  but,  as  the 
owner  has  been  abfent  above  fourteen  years,  every  thing 
wears  the  face  of  neglect  and  decadency. 

This  and  the  adjoining  manors  were  purchafed,  about  the 
middle  of  the  fixteenth  century,  by  the  Imperiali  of  Genoa, 
from  St.  Charles  Borromeo,  archbifhop  of  Milan ;  who,  if  we 
may  believe  his  biographers,  diftributed  in  one  day  the  whole 
purchafe-mcney  to  the  poor  of  his  diocefe,  at  that  time 
afflicted  with  the  joint  fcourges  of  peftilence  and  famine. 

The  Marquis  of  Oria,  grandfather  to  the  prefent  proprie- 
tor, redded  conftantly  on  his  eftate  ;  and  being  an  adept  in 
rural  economy,  managed  all  his  concerns  himfelf,  received 

his 


JOURNEY    TO    TAR  ANT  O.  *t7 

his  rents  in  kind,  and,  by  his  great  (kill  in  difpofing  of  his 
commodities  to  advantage,  made  every  article  turn  to 
account.  At  prelent,  very  little  remains  unlet;  the  rents 
are  paid  as  the  crops  are  got  in  and  fold,  not  at  ftated  days 
of  payment.  All  tythes  belong  to  the  Lord  of  the  Manor, 
who  is  the  lay  impropriator ;  for  the  Church  has  only  its 
glebe.  Many  gentlemen  of  a  fecondary  rank  hold  their 
lands  of  the  Prince,  as  under-tenants,  by  the  payment  of  a 
fixed  fine  for  their  inveftiture,  nearly  in  the  fame  manner  as 
our  copyholders  make  furrenders,  and  hold  eftates  by  copy 
of  court-roll.  There  are  befides  many  owners  of  land,  not 
of  noble  degree,  who  pay  the  tenth  of  all  their  crops  to  the 
Prince. 

After  my  walk,  I  fat  down  to  a  pompous  repaft ;  but  as 
the  cook,  who  was  never  very  fkilful  in  his  profeiTion,  and 
had  been  twenty  years  retired  upon  half-pay,  chofe  to  exert 
all  his  abilities  on  fo  grand  an  occafion,  it  was  fcarcely  poffi- 
ble  to  get  down  any  of  his  ragouts,  and  out  of  the  reach  of 
all  guefling  to  name  a  fingle  difh.  1  could  not  prevail  on 
Don  Domenico,  or  any  of  my  company,  to  partake  ol  the 
feaft  ;  fo  that  I  fat,  like  Governor  Sancho,  furrounded  by 
all  my  officers,  doctor,  fteward,  chaplain,  and  mufi- 
cians.  In  one  point  my  cafe  differed  from  that  of 
the  Yquire  errant ;  for  the  phyfician,  inftead  of  con- 
juring away  the  plates,  was  very  attentive  in  recom- 
mending and  preffing  me  to  eat  of  every  dim,   though  I 

F  f  2  obferved 


2i8  JOURNEY    TO    TAl^ANTO, 

obferved  he  durft  not  venture  to  fix  a  name  upon  any  one 
of  them. 

After  this  long  and  tirefome  meal,  I  was  left  to  take  my 
afternoon  nap,  and  in  the  evening  entertained  with  the 
tragedy  of  Judith  and  Holofernes,  acted  by  the  young 
people  of  the  town,  in  a  theatre  belonging  to  the  caftle. 
Their  rude  accent,  lorced  geftures,  and  ftrange  blunders  in 
language,  rendered  their  difmal  drama  a  complete  farce. 
When  the  heroine  murdered  the  general,  the  whole  houfe 
(hook  with  thundering  burfts  of  applaufe ;  the  upper  part 
of  his  body  was  hidden  by  the  fide  fcenes ;  the  lower  parts 
lay  on  a  couch  upon  the  flage,  and  in  the  agonies  of  death 
were  thrown  into  fuch  convuliions,  kickings,  and  writh- 
ings,  as  melted  the  hearts  and  ravifhed  the  fouls  of  the 
attentive  audience.  Judith  then  came  forward,  and  re- 
peated a  long  monologue,  with  her  fword  in  one  hand, 
and  a  barber's  block,  dripping  with  blood,  in  the  other. 
Never  was  tragedy-queen  fent  off  the  flage  with  louder  or 
more  fincere  acclamations. 


section    xxvnr. 

Mayl  T  TOOK  a  ride  to  Oria,  a  city  romantically  fituatcd 

J        upon  three  hills,  in  the  centre  of  the  plains.    The 

caftle  and   cathedral   ftand   boldly   on   the   higheft   points. 

This  is  a  place  of  great  antiquity,  a  colony  of  Cretans ;  on 

its 


JOURNEY     TO    TARANTO.  2i9 

its  coins  a  minotaur  *.  Servilius,  an  officer  of  Octavius 
Caviar,  was  here  furprifed  by  Mark  Antony.  In  the 
lower  ages  it  became  part  of  the  rich  patrimony  of  the 
Baux.  The  Bonifazii  were  afterwards  poiTcfTed  of  Oria; 
but  about  the  year  1540  the  laft  male  heir  of  the  family 
renounced  his  country  and  fortune  with  his  religion,  and 
retired  to  Geneva.  The  caufe  of  this  renunciation  was  the 
iiiamelefs  conduct  of  his  fillers,  who,  by  living  in  public 
concubinage  with  the  Viceroy  and  the  Nuncio,  brought 
difgrace  upon  their  brother.  The  Marquifate  now  belongs 
to  the  Prince  of  Francavilla. 

I  continued  my  ride  a  few  miles  fouth,  to  another  eftate 
of  the  Imperiali,  called  Cafalnuovo,  through  an  open 
country,  abounding  with  corn  and  cotton,  prettily  divided 
by  rows  of  olive  and  almond  trees.  The  cotton  was  juft 
coming  up,  with  two  yawning  lobes,  exactly  like  the  coty- 
ledones  oi  the  common  bean.  It  is  of  the  fhrubby  kind, 
and,  when  full  grown,  refembles  the  rafpberry  plant.  The 
pods  of  cotton  are  at  top,  and,  when  ripe,  burft,  and 
difclofe  a  tuft  of  down,  the  wings  deftined  to  convey  the 
feed  through  the  air.  The  land  intended  for  this  crop  is 
very  neatly  dreft,  and  laid  down  in  flat  narrow  ridges  :  the 
feafon  for  ploughing,  between  January  and  April.  The 
cotton  is  then  fovvn  ;  and,  as  foon  as  the  moots  appear,  the 

*  Nummi  Hyrinseorum. 

ARG.   1.  Cap.  Palladia  gal.  no£lua.=Minotaurus  gradiens  TPINAI. 

2.  Cap.  Pallad.^rMinouurus  IANIAT. 

3.  Fades  plena  imb.  =  Minotaurus  ANIAT. 

3  field 


220  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

field  is  hoed,  and  weeded  with  a  fmall  mattock.  After  a 
crop  of  cotton,  it  is  ufual  to  take  one  of  wheat,  then  one 
of  barley  or  oats ;  afterwards  the  land  is  Suffered  to  lie 
fallow,  or  is  ufed  as  a  pafture  for  fheep  during  twelve 
months,  and  the  enfuing  year  it  is  again  fit  for  cotton. 
Thefe  grounds  are  tilled  in  partnerfhip  :  the  proprietor 
ploughs  it  the  firfr.  time ;  the  tenant  gives  it  four  fubfe- 
quent  ploughings,  and  furnifhes  feed  ;  the  expence  of  the 
harveft  is  born  equally  by  both,  and  the  profits  halved 
between  them.  Hoers  earn  a  carlino  a  day,  and  a  good 
ploughman  four  carlini,  or  five  grana  and  his  victuals. 

Cafalnuovo  is  a  confiderable  town,  without  any  buildings 
of  note,  except  a  large  baronial  manfion  in  the  centre, 
begun  by  the  late  Marquis,  and  left  unfinished  at  his  death. 
The  fuite  of  apartments  is  grand,  but  the  Situation  uncom- 
fortable, without  garden  or  profpecl:.  He  chofe  to  remove 
to  this  place,  becaufe  the  rocky  foil  affords  a  folid  founda- 
tion for  a  houfe,  and  the  air  is  remarkably  wholefome  ; 
whereas  Francavilla  is  the  very  reverfe,  being  built  on  a 
marfhy,  unfound  foil,  where  it  is  even  difficult  to  find  a 
bottom,  and  all  the  water  has  a  brackifh  tafte. 

This  town  contains  about  four  thoufand  inhabitants, 
noted  for  nothing  but  their  tafte  for  dogs  flefh,  in  which 
they  have  no  competitors  that  I  know  of,  except  their 
neighbours  at  Lecce,  and  the  newly  difcovered  voluptuaries' 
of  Otaheite.  We  did  not  fee  one  animal  of  the  canine 
fpecies  in  the  Streets  j  and  woe  be  to  the  poor  cur  that  fol- 
lows 


JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO.  211 

lows  its  matter  into  this  cannibal  fettlement !  I  could  not 
prevail  upon  my  conductor  to  own  whether  they  had  any 
flocks  of  puppies,  as  of  fheep ;  or  took  any  pains,  by 
caftration  or  particular  food,  to  fatten  and  fweeten  the 
dainty  before  they  brought  it  to  the  fhambles.  I  have  fince 
procured  fome  information  on  the  fubjecT:  from  impartial 
perfons,  and  find  that  the  people  of  this  neighbourhood  are 
looked  upon  by  the  reft  of  the  kingdom  as  dog-eaters ;  and 
that  it  is  certain  that,  both  at  Lecce  and  Cafalnuovo,  many 
of  the  lower  fort  relifh  a  flice  of  a  well-fed  cur.  At  both 
places  tanners  kidnap  dogs,  and  tan  their  hides  into  an 
imitation  of  Turkey  leather,  with  which  they  fupply  the 
gentlemen  of  the  neighbouring  cities,  who  are  nice  in  their 
flippers  This  demand  lor  falfe  Morocco  occafions  the 
flaughter  of  many  dogs,  and  no  doubt  the  cuftom  of  eating 
their  flefli  began  among  the  needy  tanners  :  hunger  and 
experience  have  taught  their  countrymen  to  confider  the 
d.fcovery  as  a  very  beneficial  one.  At  Bari  and  Francavilla, 
horfe-flefh  is  faid  to  be  publicly  fold  in  the  market ;  and 
the  tail  lett  on,  to  (hew  the  wretched  purchafers  what  beaft 
the  meat  belonged  to.  The  wits  among  the  populace  nick- 
name thefe  fhamble  horfes  Caprio  ferrato^  i.  e.  a  fhod 
Deer. 

The  Bailiff  of  the  Manor  informed  me,  that  it  contained 
fix  convents  of  men  and  two  of  women  ;  and  that  the 
Belles  Lettres  flouriihed  extraordinarily  ;  for,  befides  himfelf, 
he  could  reckon  up   twelve  men  of  great  learning  in  the 

place, 


222  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

place,  who  formed  an  academy;  viz.  two  doctors  of  phyfic, 
two  apothecaries,  and  eight  men  of  the  law.  A  tremendous 
junto  for  the  poor  Dcg-eaters !  There  is  neither  trade  nor 
manufactures  here;  the  fruits  of  the  earth  are  confumed  on 
the  fpot ;  if  any  remain  above  the  confumption,  they  are 
fent  to  Taranto  for  fale. 

On  this  fide  flood  Manduria,  a  city  of  the  Tarentines, 
deftroyed  by  Fabius  Maximus  in  the  fecond  Punic  war. 
Its  coins  are  faja  to  have  been  dug  up  lately,  but  I  never 
faw  any;  traces  of  the  old  name  exifi:  in  fome  fields  called 
II  Campo  Mandurino,  and  in  a  chapel  dedicated  to  St.  Pietro 
Mandurino.  The  Cafalnuovians  being  defirous  of  reluming 
the  original  appellation,  have  lately  petitioned  the  King  for 
leave  to  quit  the  name  of  Cafalnuovo,  and  to  take  that  of 
Manduria  in  all  public  deeds. 

At  a  fmall  diftance  from  the  town,  the  old  walls  are  very 
difcernible,  raifed  feveral  feet  above  the  ground ;  they  are 
double,  except  on  the  fouth  fide,  where  the  fortifications 
appear  to  have  been  left  incomplete,  The  outer  wall  and 
its  ditch  meafure  eight  yards  in  breadth ;  behind  this  bul- 
wark is  a  broad  ftreet,  and  then  an  inner  wall,  which  to- 
gether meafure  fourteen  yards.  The  ftones  are  oblong, 
laid  in  courfes  without  mortar,  and  cut  out  of  the  ditch  ; 
the  rocky  itratum,  which  comes  to  the  furface  with  very 
little  covering  of  mould,  is  a  concretion  of  fea  fand  and 
fhells :  thefe  exuviae  of  marine  bodies,  when  decompofed  by 
the  action  of  the  atmofphere,  are  converted  into  a  moil:  fer- 
tile 


JOURNEY    TO     TARANTO.  C23 

tile  foil.  It  is  truly  wonderful  that  fuch  fruitfulnefs  mould 
exift  in  a  country  to  all  outward  appearance  as  deftitute  of 
water  as  Arabia  Petrasa. 

The  greatefr,  curiofity  here  is  a  well,  mentioned  by  Pliny 
in   his   fecond  Book*.     In   a  field  within   the   ancient  in- 
clofure,   we   defcended    feveral   fteps   into  a   large   circular 
cavern,   lighted   from   above   by  a  fpacious   aperture ;    the 
water  comes  from  the  north- weft,   and   may  be  heard  very 
diftinclly  under  the  rock;   it  ifiues  out  with  force,  and  after 
running  along  a  fhort  channel,   lofes  itfelf  in  a  round  bafon 
by  fome  fubterraneous  conduits.     What  excites  the  admira- 
tion of  the  neighbours,  as  it  did  that  of  their  forefathers,  is, 
that  at  no  time  the  water  ever  rifes  or  fails  above  a  certain 
mark  ;  if  you   throw  in    as  much    rubbifli    as  will  fill  it 
half-way  up,   this  accefiion  will  neverthelefs  have  no  effect 
upon  the  level ;   even  fhould  you  heap  up  the  dirt  above  the 
mark, -the  water  will  not   rife,    but  remain  totally  hidden; 
clear  away  the  mud  to  the  bottom,  you  will  come  to  a  hard 
fmooth  floor,  without  any  figns  of  a  chafm  for  the  water  to 
run  off  by.      As  too  much  curiofity,  if  indulged  in  examin- 
ing the  construction  of  this  well,  might  endanger  the  lofs  of 
the  only  fupply  of  good  drinking  water  in  the  townfhip,  all 
experiments  and  removals  are  itrictly  forbidden.      The  rock 
is  of  a  very  porous  nature,  and  the  water  carried  off  by  a 

*  Juxta  oppidum  Manduriam  lacus  ad  margines  plenus,  neque  exhauitis 
aquis  minuitur,  neque  infufis  augetur. 

G  g  quick 


224  JOURNEY    TO    TARANTO. 

quick  filtration :  as  the  ftream  is  no  doubt  formed  by  the 
overflowings  of  fome  underground  lake  or  river  coming 
from -the  vaft  refervoirs  in  the  bofom  of  the  Apennines,  and 
has  other  paffages  for  its  difcharge,  the  well  is  probably  filled 
with  the  backwater  only,  and  therefore  the  dirt  thrown  in 
muft,  of  courfe  prevent  the  water  from  entering  the  bafon*. 

*  Thefe  eftates  have  fince  efcheated  to  the  Crown,  by  the  death  of  Michael 
Imperiali,  Prince  of  Francavilla,  without  heirs.  No  collateral  heir  beyond 
the  third  degree  of  confanguinity  is  capable  of  inheriting  a  fief  in  the  king- 
dom of  Naples. 


(     =25      ) 


TAR  AN  TO,   and  its  ENVIRONS. 


SECTION     XXIX. 

May  7  Y  LEFT  Francavilla,  efcorted  by  four  well-mounted 
3  '  J  JL  and  well-armed  guards  in  the  Prince's  pay. 
Every  great  Baron*  keeps  a  certain  number  of  trufty  deter- 
mined fellows  to  protect  his  vaffals,  convoy  his  rents,  and 
prevent  depredations  on  his  game  and  forefts ;  they  travel 
by  the  iide  of  his  coach  to  defend  his  perfon  and  baggage ; 
but  as  I  was  under  no  apprehenfion  of  an  attack,  I  difmifled 
thefe  attendants  as  foon  as  poflible,  and  fending  the  fervants 
on  to  Taranto  to  prepare  my  reception,  fauntered  flowly 
after  them,  that  I  might  enjoy  the  pure  morning  breeze,  and 
examine  the  country.      Near  Francavilla  the  foil  is  deep,  and 

*  Our  old  Englifh  Barons  had  their  Rod-knights  or  Radmen,  who  held 
lands  of' them  on  the  condition  of  attending  their  perfons  in  their  travels,  and 
going  wherefoever  they  pleafed  to  fend  them. 

G  g   2  cultivated 


22<S  T      A      R      A      N      T      O. 

cultivated  with  fome  degree  of  neatnefs ;  but  I  faw  neither 
fpring  nor  rivukt.  Thefe  farms  are  bounded  by  extenfive 
waftes,  where  the  rocks  are  fcantily  covered  with  a  mofly 
fwarth.  At  Le  Grottaglie,  a  large  village  belonging  to 
Cicinelli  Prince  of  Curli,  I  arrived  at  the  high  plain  of 
Oria,  and  by  a  fteep  defcent  entered  the  low  one  of  Ta- 
ranto;  the  fcparation  is  not  gradual,  but  fuddenly  made  by 
a  barrier  of  perpendicular  rocks,  that  run  from  the  mountains 
quite  acrofs  to  the  gulf.  Le  Grottaglie  owes  its  origin  to  a 
concourfe  of  inhabitants  from  many  towns  and  villages  laid 
in  allies  by  the  Saracens ;  finding  no  other  place  of  fafety* 
the  fugitives  took  refuge  in  thefe  grottos  and  caverns,  and 
by  degrees  recovering  from  their  difmay,  ventured  out  and 
built  dwellings  above  ground.  By  one  of  thofe  monftrous 
contradictions,  of  which  the  feudal  fyflem  of  Naples  affords 
many  examples,  the  criminal  jurifdiction  of  this  lordfhip  ap- 
pertains to  the  Archbifhop  of  Taranto,  while  the  civil  13 
veiled  in  its  Prince.  The  people  of  this  town  are  faid  to 
underftand  the  bufmefs  of  a  fhepherd  better  than  any  of 
their  neighbours,  among  whom  their  ci  eam-cheefes  are  in 
great  repute.  The  country  abounds  in  corn  and  wine,  but 
of  late  years  they  have  treated  their  vines  with  fo  little  care, 
that  the  wine  is  quite  fallen  in  the  public  efleem  ;  they 
make  pottery-ware  of  a  red  colour,  like  that  of  the  antique 
cups,  but  they  fail  in  the  art  of  tempering  the  clay,  nor  can 
they  attain  the  fame  degree  of  lightnefs  and  tranfparency. 
After  riding  through  a  fine  tract  of  orchards3  I  came  in  fight 


o 


■ 


H 


u 

u 

N 

Pi 

> 

3 

X 

<< 

^ 

V 

N" 

c 

j 

w 


© 


C^! 


ft 


^ 


m 


ifi 


h 

© 
to 


5 
o 


e3 


/ 
/ 


1 


<£      xK 


i 


© 


r1 

V 


I 


1 


T      A      R      A      N      T      O.  22? 

of  the  Mare  Piccolo,  or  Little  Sea,  beyond  which  rifes  the 
city  of  Taranto  :  the  banks  that  inclofe  the  bay  are  fo  gently 
floped  off  as  to  create  no  very  ftriking  effect ;  there  is  a 
Umenefs  in  the  profpecl:  not  unlike  the  infipidity  of  the  arti- 
ficial lakes  and  elegant  fwells  in  our  fafhionable  gardens  in 
England,  totally  different  from  the  bold  beauties  of  Italian 
landfcape.  The  country  leading  down  to  its  verge  is  wild 
but  agreeable  ;  a  fhallow  foil  and  mofly  turf,  covered  in 
many  places  with  tufts  of  aromatic  fhrubs,  and  clumps  of 
Carob  trees  that  appear  to  be  indigenous.  Through  this 
heath  runs  the  Cervaro,  a  fmall  brook  of  whitifh  water,  that 
falls  into  the  bay  at  the  north-eafi:  corner,  believed  by  fome 
authors  to  be  the  Galefus,  becaufe  it  correfponds  with  the 
diftance  of  five  miles  from  Taranto  affigned  by  Polybius : 
an  additional  proof  might  be  alleged  in  the  epithet  white, 
given  to  the  Galefus  by  Martial,  as  agreeing  with  the  pre- 
fent  ftate  of  the  rivulet,  the  waters  of  which  are  ftrongly 
tinged  with  the  chalky  or  marly  particles  of  the  foil  it  runs 
over ;  this  foapy  quality  may  be  fuppofed  to  have  rendered 
them  peculiarly  efficacious  in  purifying-  and  bleaching  the 
fleeces  that  were  warned  in  them.  When  Virgil  applied 
the  diftinctive  term  Niger*  to  this  ftream,  he  is  thought  to 
have  alluded  to  the  thick  pine  groves  that  then  fhaded  its 
banks.  Propertius,  by  the  following  lines  addrefkd  to  the 
Mantuan  bard, 

*  Some  commentators  read  Piger^ 


j28  T      A      R      A      N      T      O. 

Tu  craii?  umbfofi  fubter  pineta  Galefi 
Thyrfin  et  attritis  Daphnin  arundinibus  *. 

feems  to  infinuate,  that  Virgil  compofed  his  Eclogues  at  Ta- 
rentum,  or  in  fome  neighbouring  villa;  perhaps  the  fame, 
where  he  fays,  he  took  leffons  of  agriculture  from  Cprycius 
the  Illyrian  pirate,   tranfported  by  Pompey  to  thefe  vallies. 

Namque  fub  Oebalia:  memini  me  turribus  altis, 
Qua.  niger  hume&at  flaventia  culta  Galefus 
Corycium  vidifle  fenem  *j". 

Whilft  I  was  combining  the  foregoing  circumftances  in  my 
mind,  and  endeavouring  to  fatisfy  myfelf  that  I  was  then 
actually  {landing  on  the  banks  of  fo  celebrated  a  river,  an 
aged  fhepherd  came  up  with  his  flock,  and  freely  entered 
into  converfation  ;  I  was  glad  of  an  opportunity  of  learning 
fome  particulars  concerning  the  Tarentine  fheep,  and  the 
commonly  received  opinion  that  no  white  ones  would  now 
live  in  thefe  paflures,  becaufe  they  foon  would  poifon  them- 
felves  with  the  leaves  of  the  fumolo  (a  fpecies  of  hypericum 
crifpum,  or  St.  John's  wort  of  Linnzeus's  polyadelphia  polyan- 
dria),  though  black  fheep  may  brovvze  upon  it  with  fafety; 
for  this  reafon,  it  is  faid,  no  white  fheep  are  to  be  feen  in  the 
flecks,  and  no  wool  but  of  a  black  or  dark  brown  colour. 

*  Thou  fingeft,  under  the  pine-groves  of  fhady  Galefus,  the  loves  of  Thyrfis 
an.i  Daphnis  en  thy  fmooth  reeds. 

■f  For  I  remember  to  have  feen  the  aged  Corycius  near  the  lofty  towers  of 
balia,  where  dark  Galefus  waters  the  yellow  fields. 

2  The 


T       A       R       A       N       T       O.  22? 

The  old  man  fmiled  at  my  queMions,  and  pointing  to  many 
white  ewes  in  his  flock,  anfwered,  that  it  was  not  in  confe- 
quence  of  its  colour,  but  of  its  fpecies,  that  the  animal  fuf- 
fered  from  thole  noxious  herbs ;  the  pecore  gcntili,  or  delicate 
race  of  fheep,  are  fo  much  more  liable  to  periih  by  thefe 
and  other  accidents,  than  the  pecore  mofcie>  or  carfi.gnc->  a 
wilder  and  coarfer  breed,  that  the  former  kind  is  alrrroft 
deftroyed. 

To  explain  this  matter  fatisfactorily,  it  is  neceflary  I 
fhould  enlarge  upon  the  fubjecl,  and  recapitulate  what  we 
read  of  the  flocks  of  the  ancient  Tarentines ;  the  attempts 
made  in  latter  times  to  revive  the  credit  of  the  Puglian  wool, 
with  the  caufes  which  have  defeated  the  intention,  and  ren- 
dered the  fcheme  abortive.  Columella  informs  us,  that  the 
Tarentines  crofTed  their  delicate  breed  with  fierce  foreign 
rams  of  a  beautiful  tawny  colour,  and  that  the  fleece  of 
their  lambs  had  the  ftrong  glofiy  hue  of  the  fire,  with  the 
downy  filknefs  of  the  dam.  To  increafe  this  luftre  and 
foftnefs,  they  ufed  to  buckle  round  the  fheep  a  fort  of 
leathern  coat,  which  they  took  off  occafionally,  left  the  bead 
mould  fuffer  from  exceflive  heat;  then  bathed  and  foaked 
the  wool  in  wine  and  oil,  till  it  was  quite  faturated  with 
the  rich  fomentation.  Before  (hearing  time,  the  fheep  were 
wafhed  in  the  Galefus,  and  at  all  feafons  penned  up  in  clean 
folds,  and  kept  free  from  filth ;  they  were  never  led  out  to 
feed  till  the  fun  had  dried  up  the  dew,  as  the  fpirting  of  the 
drops  from  the  grafs  was  apt  to  give  them  fore  eyes,     This* 

procefs* 


230  T      A      R      A      N      T      O. 

procefs,  and  the  filence  of  the  ancients  concerning  any  par- 
ticular whitenefs  in  the  wool  of  Tarentum,  prove  how  much 
Sannazar,  and  other  moderns,  have  confounded  times  and 
ideas,  in  praifing  it  merely  for  its  milky  hue.  The  darknefs 
of  colour  was  by  no  means  a  hindrance  to  the  imbibition  of  a 
deep  purple  dye,  which  was  the  tint  moft  efteemed  by  the 
Tarentines. 

After  the  fall  of  Rome,  a  long  train  of  wars  and  devalua- 
tion deprived  this  country  of  all  its  acquired  advantages,  and 
even  operated  fo  direfully  upon  its  climate  and  productions, 
as  to  vitiate  thofe  it  held  of  the  bounty  of  nature.  When 
the  manufacturers  as  well  as  manufactures  were  destroyed, 
the  prime  commodities  of  courfe  loft  their  value,  and  it 
ceafed  to  be  worth  the  fhepherd's  while,  even  had  the  nicer 
arts  of  his  calling  been  handed  down  to  him,  to  take  any 
pains  in  preferving  a  purity  of  blood,  or  delicacy  of  covering 
in  his  breed  of  fheep ;  thofe  perfections  had  no  longer  any 
admirers  or  chapmen,  and  confequently  the  race  very  foon 
degenerated. 

Frederick  of  Suabia  took  fome  fteps  towards  retrieving 
this  branch  of  traffic;  but  the  misfortunes  of  his  family  ren- 
dered all  thofe  projects  vifionary.  The  introduction  of 
filkworms  from  the  Eaft  by  King  Roger,  proved  a  fatal 
check  to  the  demand  for  fine  wool,  and  the  heavy  load  of 
taxes  impofed  upon  this  commodity  by  the  Angevine  Pni;_s, 
after  they  had  loft  Sicily,  completed  the  deftruction  of  the 
finer  breed.     On  account  of  their  tender  conftitution,  they 

required 


T      A      R      A      N      T      O.  231 

required  expenfive  houfing  and  conftant  attendance  to  make 
them  turn  to  profit,  and  therefore  the  Puglian  {hepherds, 
being  from  indigence  unable  to  procure  fuch  conveniences, 
abandoned  the  delicate  race,  and  attached  themfelves  to  a 
rougher  variety,  which  are  generally  black  or  brown,  hardy, 
and  able  to  feed  with  impunity  on  many  plants  and  fpecies  of 
grafs  that  blind  and  weaken,  if  not  poifon,  the  Pecore  gentili. 

The  breed  was  fo  debafed  in  the  fifteenth  century,  and 
the  farmers  reduced  to  fuch  mifery,  that  Joan  the  Second 
chofe  rather  to  remit  the  taxes  laid  upon  wool  by  her  bro- 
ther, than  attempt  any  method  of  amelioration,  for  which 
fhe  wanted  both  fkill  and  fteadinefs. 

Alphonfus  the  Firft,  who  had  greater  views,  and  was  bleit, 
with  more  peace  and  leifure  than  his  predeceflbr,  refolved  to 
procure  for  his  Neapolitan  dominions  fome  of  the  fubftantial 
advantages  which  his  kingdom  of  Aragon  had  experienced 
from  an  improved  breed  of  (beep,  fent  as  a  prefent  to  one  of  his 
anceftors  from  a  King  of  England.  To  obtain  this  end,  he 
caufed  a  proper  number  of  ewes  and  rams,  the  progeny  of 
thofe  Englim  fheep,  to  be  tranfported  into  Puglia.  Ferdi- 
nand the  Firft,  ambitious  of  fupporting  his  father's  {yftem, 
encouraged  the  woollen  manufacture,  by  inviting  workmen 
from  all  foreign  parts  where  that  trade  flourifhed:  but  the 
duties  impofed  by  thefe  two  Kings  produced  ultimately  very 
pernicious  effects,  for  they  lay  heavy  upon  the  poorer  clafs 
of  farmers,  and  the  fale  of  wool  was  not  fufficient  to  indem- 
nify them  for  loffes  fuftained  by  bad  years  and  accidents. 

H  h  The 


232 


T      A      R      A      N      T      O. 

The  oppreflions  of  needy  and  ignorant  Viceroys^  who  were 
obliged  to  anticipate  and  mortgage  every  revenue  to  fupply 
the  continual  demands  of  the  Spanifh  miniflry,  increafcd 
the  evil  to  fuch  a  height,  that  at  laft  the  white  breed  was 
entirely  forfaken,  and  at  this  day  the  number  of  Pecore 
gentili  is  extremely  inconfiderable  within  the  diftrict  of  Ta- 
ranto.  Very  little  nicety  is  now  obferved  in  the  choice  of 
rams,  or  in  proper  crofTes,  by  which  means  the  wool  is  not 
io  fine  as  it  might  be,  though  it  be  ftill  of  a  good  quality. 
Better  management  and  employment  of  the  raw  materials  at 
home,  might  create  an  inexhauftible  fund  of  wealth  for  the 
flate.  The  flefh  of  the  Pecore  gentili  is  more  flabby, 
ftringy,  taftelefs,  and  therefore  cheaper  than  that  of  the 
Mofcia ;  and  there  is  a  penalty  upon  any  butcher  that  mail 
pafs  off  the  mutton  of  the  former  for  that  of  the  latter. 


SECTION     XXX. 

QOON  after  I  left  the  fhepherd,  I  palled  near  fome  rub- 
bifh  which  antiquaries  call  a  remnant  of  the  wall  of  the 
Tapygians.  Jt  was  forty  miles  long,  and  erecled  by  that 
ancient  people  from  fea  to  fea,  in  order  to  divide  their  terri- 
tories from  thofe  of  the  Meflapians.     I  next  reached  a  delicious 

vale,  called   Le  Citrezze  *,  where  a  ftream   rifes  in  a  bafon 

about 

*  The  Tarentines  call  this  the  Galefus;  D'Anville  and  Zannoni  give  that 
name  to  a  river  that  dilcharges  itfelf  into  the  Mare  Grand.     The  fpring  of" 

the 


T      A      R      A      N      T      O.  23.3 

■about  three  hundred  yards  from  the  fea.    The  waters  orca- 
flon  a  perpetual  verdure  in  the  meadows,  and  groves  of  aged 
olive  trees  defend  them  from  the  fcorching  ray,  and  from  all 
winds  but  the  foft  zephyrs  that  play  upon  the  furface  of  the 
Mare  Piccolo.      I  alighted  to  enjoy  the  charms  of  this  fvveet 
fequeftered  fpot,  and  while  my  eyes  ranged  over  the  beautiful 
landfcape,   fufTered  my  imagination  to  wander  into  a  chain 
of  melancholy  reflections  on  the  general  viciflitudes  in  the 
fate  of  empires,  and  on  the  deftiny  of  Taranto  in  particular. 
All  was  then  ft  ill  in  that  port,  where  the  trading  veflels  of 
half  the  world   rendezvoufed.      One    fingle    fifhinp-    boat 
difturbed  the  bofom  of  thofe  waters,  where  the  mighty  navy 
of  Carthage   once  difplayed  its  flag.     Of  all  the  temples, 
gymnafia,    theatres,    and  other   monuments  of  glory  and 
opulence,  not  fo  much  as  a  fingle  column  rifes  upon  the  hill 
where  Tarentum  once  flood  :  the  paultry  building  of  fome 
mean  convents,  inhabited  by  the  moft  infignificant  of  friars, 
mark  its  ancient  fituation ;  while  the  modern  city,  crowded 
into  a  narrow  ifland,  holds  the  place  of  the  old  citadel,  and 
flill  refembles  a  fortrefs  more  than  an  emporium  of  trade. 
But  in  defpite  of  this  change  in  its  fortunes,  the  appearance 
of  Taranto  is  replete  with  wonderful  beauties.     At  my  feet, 

the  Citrezze  is  deep,  and  therefore  anfwers  Virgil's  epithet  of  black.  The 
very  little  extent  of  its  courfe  correfponds  with  the  ancient  opinion  of  it's  beino 
the  fborteft  of  all  rivers ;  but  flill  I  cannot  underftand  how  fo  trifling  a  rill 
could  be  deemed  a  river,  and  be  called  Eurotas  by  the  Parthen;i  from  its  re 
femblance  to  the  river  of  Lacedemon  j  or  how  numerous  flocks  could  wander 
en  its  banks,  and  be  wafhed  in  its  waters. 

H  h    2  the 


234  T      A      R      A      N      T      O. 

the  Mare  Piccolo  rolled  its  gentle  waves,  ftretching  from  eaft 
to  weft,  in  the  fhape  of  an  oval  lake,  divided  into  two  unequal 
bays  by  a  narrow  promontory;  olive  woods  clothe  the  fore- 
ground on  both  fides,  and  the  oppofite  hills  appear  rich  in 
orchards  and  corn  fields.  Over  the  city,  the  Mare  Grande, 
or  outer  port,  fome  fhips  at  anchor,  iflands,  capes;  and  be- 
hind, all  the  blue  mountains  of  Bafilicata  complete  the 
proipecl.  A  long  bridge  of  feven  arches  joins  the  city  to 
the  continent  on  the  north  fide;  through  them  the  tide 
flows  with  great  impetuofity,  and  nothing  now  but  fmall 
boats  can  be  admitted  by  this  paflage,  which  was  formerly 
the  entrance  of  the  harbour.  But  even  in  the  time  of  the 
Romans,  I  think  it  evident  from  what  Appian  fays,  that 
there  were  drawbridges,  by  which  the  garrifon  of^the  citadel 
preferved  a  command  over  the  vefTels  in  port.  Had  the 
mouth  been  quite  free,  the  Tarentine  fleet  in  the  fecond 
Punic  war  could  not  have  been  fo  completely  blocked  up, 
as  to  render  all  attempts  to  break  through  utterly  fruitlefs. 
At  each  arch  is  fixed  a  frame  for  hanging  nets  to  intercept 
fifti  as  they  run  up  into  the  little  fea  with  the  flow,  or  fall 
back  with  the  ebb;  and  upon  this  bridge  is  carried  the 
aqueduct  that  fupplies  the  town  with  water. 

Tolita  King  of  the  Goths  is  faid  to  have  been  the  firft 
that  erected  an  aquedud  on  this  north  fide;  others  attribute 
it  to  the  Emperor  Nicephorus.  It  was  built  in  the  prefent 
form  and  direction  in  1543.  The  fources  lie  twelve  miles 
diftant  from  Taranto  in  the  mountains  of  Martina,  where 

many 


T      A      R      A      N      T      O.  335 

many  grooves  and  cuts  in  the  heart  of  the  rock  collecl:  the 
ftraggling  rills  and  filiations,  and  bring  them  together  at  a 
fpot  called  Valdenza ;  from  thence  the  waters  run  to  Triglio, 
where  they  fall  into  immenfe  refervoirs,  and  then  pafs  under 
ground  to  the  deep  citterns  at  Tremiti.  At  La  Follia  they 
rife  to-day,  and  keep  an  open  courfe  for  feven  miles,  till 
they  enter  an  arcade  of  two  hundred  and  three  arches  in 
very  bad  repair,  overgrown  with  ivy,  and  oozing  at  every 
joint ;  the  water  is  conveyed  through  hollow  (tones,  each  of 
which  has  a  fpout  that  fits  into  the  next. 

The  fhape  of  Taranto  has  been  likened  to  that  of  a  fhip , 
of  which  the  caftle  at  the  eaft  end  reprefents  the  ftern,  the 
great  church  the  mall,  the  tower  of  Raymund  Orfini  the 
bowfprit,  and  the  bridge  the  cable.  It  ftands  upon  the  fite 
of  the  ancient  fortrefs,  but  I  believe  occupies  rather  more 
room : — it  was  formerly  joined  to  the  continent  by  a  nar- 
row neck  of  fand,  which  occasioned  William  of  Puglia  to 
fay,  That  Tarentum  would  be  an  iiland,  but  for  a  fmall 
riling  ground. 

Infula  mox  fieret  modicus  ni  collis  adeflet.. 

Ferdinand  the  Firft  being  apprehenfive  of  an  attack  from 
the  Turks,  ordered  the  iflhmus  to  be  cut  through,  and  the 
fea  to  be  let  in.  Fhilip  the  Second  caufed  the  pafiage  to  be 
widened  and  deepened  fo  as  to  admit  vefTels ;  but  it  was  after- 
wards choked  up  with  fand  and  filth,  and,  by  the  fiagnation. 
of  its  waters,  became  a  great  nuifance.  The  air  of  Ta- 
ranto 


236  T      A      R      A      N      T      O. 

ranto  was  grievoufly  affected  by  it  till  1755,  when  it  was 
again  cleared  out  by  the  King's  directions.  The  ftreets  are 
remarkably  dirty  and  narrow,  efpecially  the  Marina,  which 
runs  along  the  Mare  Piccolo,  and  is,  without  difpute,  the 
moft  difguftful  habitation  of  human  beings  in  Europe,  ex- 
cept, perhaps,  the  Jewifh  Ghetto  at  Rome.  The  only 
tolerable  ftreet  is  a  terrace  above  the  fteep  rocks  that  hang 
over  the  Mare  Grande,  and  prevent  all  accefs  on  that 
quarter.  The  cathedral,  dedicated  to  Saint  Cataldus,  whom 
the  Legend  calls  a  native  of  Raphoe  in  ireland,  has  little 
merit:  it  is  a  melancholy  confederation,  that  the  chapel  of 
the  patron  has  been  decorated  at  the  ex  pence  of  almoft 
every  monument  of  the  ancient  city.  The  granite  columns, 
taken  from  its  ruinated  fanes,  are  aukwardly  crowded  under 
the  ill-proportioned  roof  of  this  church.  The  fquare  near 
the  bridge  is  the  only  opening  of  any  extent,  and  the  general 
refort  of  the  citizens  in  fummer,  when  they  lit  round  the 
fountain  to  enjoy  the  foft  evening  breeze,  and  refrefh  them- 
felves  with  the  fanning  of  the  balmy  air.  But  modern  Ta- 
ranto  cannot  boaft  of  that  degree  of  falubrity  at  all  feafons, 
which  rendered  the  ancient  city  the  delight  of  voluptuaries 
and  valetudinarians.  A  failure  of  cultivation,  and  of  atten- 
tion towards  keeping  the  parTages  for  water  free,  caufes  fome 
degree  of  malignity  in  its  climate  during  the  hot  months; 
but  there  is  great  reafon  to  hope  theie  inconveniencies  will 
be  removed  by  the  patriotic  and  judicious  endeavours  of 
the  prefent  Archbifhop  Monfignor  Jofeph  Capecelatro,   who 

has 


T      A      R      A      N      T.     O.  S37 

has  abandoned  the  road  that  leads  to  the  purple,  and  other 
objects  of  ecclefiaftical  ambition,  in  order  to  devote  his  life 
and  talents  to  the  welfare  of  his  flock,  and  the  improvement 
of  his  native  country. 

I  was  lodged  at  the  Celeftine  convent,  a  neat  houfe,  built 
upon  the  ruins  of  a  temple.  The  Prior  received  me  with 
great  politenefs,  and  at  fupper  treated  me  with  the  moft 
varied  fervice  of  fhell-fifti  1  ever  fat  down  to.  There  were 
no  lefs  than  fifteen  forts,  all  extremely  fat  and  favoury  ; 
efpecially  a  fmall  fpecies  of  mufcle,  the  fhell  of  which  is 
covered  with  a  velvet  fliag,  and  both  infide  and  outfide  is 
tinged  with  the  richeft  violet  colour.  I  tafted  of  all,  and 
ate  plentifully  of  feveral  forts,  without  experiencing  the  leaft 
difficulty  in  the  digeftion. 


SECTION    xxxr. 

*HpHE  day  no  fooner  appeared  than  my  impatience  hur- 
ried me  out  of  the  Porta  di  Lecce  to  examine  the 
ruins  of  Tarentum,  a  city  fo  often  the  fubjecT:  of  my  mofc 
favourite  reading,  and  fo  truly  interefting  by  its  glory  and 
misfortunes.  Not  to  leave  any  part  unobferved  for  want 
of  method,  I  directed  my  fttps  along  the  fhore  of  the  Mare 
Grande,  which  gradually  draws  off  to  the  fouth,  towards 
Cape  San  Vito.  The  flight  remains  of  an  amphitheatre  did 
not  detain  me  long,  as  the  opus  retkulatum  proved  it  to  be 

Roman 


2*8  T      A      R      A      N      T      O. 


-.-> 


Roman  work ;  and  at  that  moment  my  enthufiafm  was  all 
directed  towards  monuments  raifed  by  the  Tarentines,  while 
they  were  a  free  Grecian  ftate,  not  thofe  they  erected  in 
fervile  compliance  with  the  fanguinary  tafte  of  their  con- 
querors.    In  vain  did  I  run  over  fields  and  gardens,  and 
examine  with  nice  attention  every  ftone  that  had  any  thing 
of  the  venerable  appearance  of  antique  workmanfhip  ;   to 
my  utter  aftonimment  not  a  (ingle  ruin  occurred,  fcarce  a 
mark  was  left  that  fuch  a  city  ever  exifted  on  the  fpot ! 
Never  was  a  place  more  completely  fwept  off  the  face  of 
the  earth  than  Tarentum.     Its  fplendid  annals  need  be  as 
well  authenticated  as  they  are  by  hiftorians,  who  had  ocular 
or  at  leaft  circumftantial  evidence  of  its  exiftence,  for  us  to 
believe  that  a  rival  of  Rome  once  raifed  her  proud  towers, 
and  arrayed  her  numerous  armies,  along  thefe  now  lone- 
fome  hills.      About  two  miles  and  a  half  from  the  gate,  I 
difcovered   veftiges  of  aquedufts,  and   had  fome  reafon  to 
think  I  had  found  the  point  where  the  city- wall  made  a 
returning  angle,  and  crofled  the  ifthmus  in  a  north-weft 
direction,  in  order   to  join  the  Mare  Piccolo,    leaving  an 
inclofure  within,    of  the  form   of  an  equilateral   triangle. 
But,   as  even  ruins  were  wanting  to  aflift  me  in  my  fearch, 
it  was  impoffible  for  me  to  determine  the  extent  with  any 
degree  of  certainty.     The  hints  given  in  the  writings  of 
ancient  hiftorians  are  too  vague  to  lead  us  with  any  preci- 
fion  to  the  true  topography  of  the  place. 

4 

Ire- 


T      A      R      A      N      T      O.  239 

I  returned  to  town  by  the  banks  of  the  Mare  Piccolo,  a 
pleafant  walk,  and  mod  delightful  view. 

Near  the  Alcanterine  convent  is  a  fmall  hillock,  wholly 
formed  of  the  fhells  of  fifh  employed  by  the  ancients  in  the 
compofition  of  their  celebrated  purple  dye;  and  not  far 
from  it  are  the  remains  of  fome  refervoirs  and  conduits 
appertaining  to  the  works.  My  readers  may  not  be  forry 
to  meet  with  a  defcription  of  the  teftaceous  fifties  that 
furnifhed  the  precious  ingredient,  and  of  the  methods  ufed 
in  extracting  and  preparing  it,  taken  from  the  accounts 
extant  in  the  claffic  authors,  and  the  differtation  of  modern 
naturalifts. 

Purple  was  procured  from  two  forts  of  mell-fifh,  the 
Murex  and  the  Purpura,  both  belonging  to  the  Teftacea,  or 
third  genus  of  Linnseus's  fixth  clafs. 

From  the  former  a  dark  blue  colour  was  obtained  ;  the 
latter  gave  a  brighter  tint,  approaching  to  fcarlet.  The 
body  of  the  animals  that  inhabit  thefe  fhells,  confifts  of 
three  parts.  The  loweft,  containing  the  bowels,  remains 
fixed  in  the  twirled  fcrew  at  the  bottom,  for  the  purpofe  of 
performing  the  digeftive  functions  :  it  is  flefhy,  and  tinged 
with  the  colour  of  its  food.  The  middle  divifion  is  of  a 
callous  fubftance,  and  full  of  liqi  or,  which,  if  let  out  of  its 
bag,  will  ftain  the  whole  animal  and  its  habitation.  The 
third  and  upper  part  is  made  up  of  the  members  neceflary 
for  procuring  food,  and  perpetuating  the  race.  The  Murex 
generally  remains  fattened  to  rocks  and  ftones.     The  Pur- 

I  i  pura, 


240  T      A      R      A      N      T      0. 

pura,  being  a  fifh  of  prey,  is  by  nature  a  rover,  and  one  of 
the  moil  voracious  inhabitants  of  the  deep.  The  proper 
feafon  for  dragging  for  this  fhell-rifh,  was  in  autumn  and 
winter.  To  come  at  the  liquor,  the  fhell  was  broken  with 
one  fmart  blow,  and  the  pouch  extracted,  with  the  greateft 
nicety,  by  means  of  a  hook.  If  the  fhells  were  of  a  fmall 
iize,  they  were  thrown  by  heaps  into  a  mill,  and  pounded. 
The  veins  being  laid  in  a  ciftern,  fait  was  ftrewed  over 
them,  to  caufe  them  to  purge  and  keep  fweet,  in  the  pro- 
portion of  twenty  ounces  of  fait  to  a  hundred  pounds  of 
fifh.  They  were  thus  macerated  for  three  days ;  after 
which  the  mucilage  was  drawn  off  into  a  leaden  cauldron,  in 
order  that  the  colours,  by  being  heated  therein,  might  acquire 
additional  luftre  and  vivacity,  as  all  marine  acids  do  by  a 
mixture  with  that  metal.  To  keep  the  veffel  from  melting, 
eighteen  pounds  of  water  were  added  to  a  hundred  and  fifty 
pounds  of  purple,  and  the  heat  given  horizontally  to  the 
kettle,  by  means  of  a  flue  brought  from  a  furnace.  By  this 
procefs,  the  flefhy  particles  were  carried  off,  and  the  liquor 
left  pure,  after  about  ten  days  fettling. 

The  dye  was  tried  by  dipping  locks  of  wTool  in  it,  till 
they  had  imbibed  a  dark  blue  colour.  As  the  colour  of  the 
Murex  would  not  ftand  alone,  the  dyers  always  mixed  a 
proportion  of  Purpura  juice  with  it.  They  fteeped  the  wool 
for  five  hours ;  then  (hook,  dried,  and  carded  it ;  dipped  it 
again  and  again,  till  it  was  faturated  with  the  dye.  The 
proportion  requifite  for  ftaining  fifty  pounds  of  wool  with 

the 


T      A      R      A      N      T      O,  24t 

the  fineft  deep  amethyft  colour,  were  twenty  pounds  of 
Murex  to  a  hundred  and  ten  of  Purpura.  To  produce  the 
Tyrian  purple,  which  refembled  the  colour  of  congealed 
blood,  it  was  neceiYary  firft  to  fteep  the  wool  in  pure  un- 
boiled Purpura  juice,  and  then  let  it  lie  and  fimmer  with 
that  of  the  Murex.  By  different  mixtures  of  thofe  two 
dyes,  varieties  were  obtained,  according  to  the  changes  of 
fafhion,  which  ran  into  violet  till  the  reign  of  Auguftus, 
when  it  inclined  to  the  Tarentine  fcarlet;  and  this  foon 
after  made  way  for  the  Diabafa  Tyria,  the  mod  extrava- 
gantly dear  of  all  the  tints.  We  read  of  fleeces  being  dyed 
upon  the  backs  of  the  fheep ;  but  remain  in  the  dark  as  to 
the  method  and  advantages  of  that  procefs. 

The  Greeks,  who  were  never  at  a  lofs  for  an  ingenious 
fable  to  cover  their  ignorance  of  origins  and  caufes,  attri- 
buted the  difcovery  of  purple  to  the  dog  of  Hercules, 
which,  in  a  range  along  the  more,  met  with  a  fhell-fim, 
and  greedily  crufhed  it  between  its  teeth.  Inftantly  an 
indelible  purple  ftained  its  muzzle,  and  by  this  accident 
fuggefted  the  hrft  idea  of  dying  cloth.  The  art  was  moft 
undoubtedly  practifed  in  times  of  very  remote  antiquity. 
Mofes  and  Homer  mention  compound  colours ;  the  wife  of 
Alcinous  is  defcribed  as  fpinning  wool  tinged  with  marine 
purple. 

Below  the  ruins  of  thefe  refervoirs,  the  more  is  thickly 
ftrewed  with  fragments  of  Etrufcan  vafes,  fimilar  in  colour 
and  defign  to  thofe  depofited  in  the  cabinets  of  the"  curious. 

I  i   2  Clofe 


242 


T      A      R      A      N      T      O. 

Clofe  by  this  place,  the  beach  is  covered  with  bits  of  plain 
red  ones.  A  little  nearer  the  city  is  the  Argentaria,  a  bank 
fo  called  from  a  tradition  of  the  gold  and  filver  fmiths 
having  had  their  (hops  there.  It  flili  deferves  the  name, 
from  a  number  of  medals,  rings,  chains,  and  other  trinkets, 
that  are  constantly  dug  out  of  it. 


SECTION      XXXII. 

T  DEVOTED  the  afternoon  to  a  water  party,  taking 
with  me  one  of  the  oldeft  and  moft  intelligent  of  the 
Tarentine  fimermen,  to  fhew  me  the  fiming  and  fpawning 
places,  and  explain  the  different  feafons  and  methods  of 
catching  fifh.  We  took  boat,  and  rowed  up  the  fouthern 
fhore  of  the  Mare  Piccolo,  with  an  intention  of  meafuring 
the  whole  circumference,  which  Strabo  fixes  at  one  hundred 
ftadia,  or  twelve  Engliiri  miles  and  a  half.  According  to 
my  calculation,  the  circuit  of  the  weftern  part  is  not  more 
than  half  as  great  as  that  of  the  eaftern  one  ;  and  both  to- 
gether, by  a  rough  eitimate,  are  about  fixteen  miles.  This 
increafe  may  be  accounted  for  by  the  destruction  of  all  the 
parapets  and  walls  of  the  old  city,  the  wearing  away  of  the 
banks,  and  overflowing  of  the  low  grounds.  A  tide  is  very 
perceptible,  efpecially  when  the  moon  changes,  and  ftill 
more  fo  at  the  folftices  and  equinoxes ;  but  very  feeble  in 
comparifon  of  the  tides  in  the  ocean;  however,  it  ferves  to 
2  Jkeep 


T      A      R      A      N      T      (X  245 

keep  the  waters  of  this  land-locked  bay  Tweet,  and  to  bring 
in  caravans  of  fim,  that  fatten  and  breed  in  its  quiet  pools. 
When  the  Scirocco  blows  hard,  the  waves  are  driven  up 
with  great  violence,  and  navigation  becomes  perilous  for 
lmall  veffels. 

The  firft  objects  of  my  curiofity  were  the  beds  of  Cozze- 
nere,  or  mufcles,  the  greater!  and  moft  conftant  fupply  of 
the  market.  Their  fpawn  is  dropt  in  the  mud.  About 
the  twenty-firft  of  March,  little  mufcles  begin  to  rife  up,  and 
cling  to  long  flakes  driven  by  the  fifliermen  into  the  water 
under  the  city  wall,  and  in  the  caftle  ditch.  There  they 
thrive  and  grow  in  frill  water,  while  the  warnings  of  the 
ftreets  fupply  them  with  rich  and  copious  nutriment.  In 
Auguft  they  are  as  big  as  almonds,  and  are  then  drawn  up 
with  the  poles,  and  fown  on  the  oppoilte  fide  of  the  Mare 
Piccolo,    among  the  frefh-water  fprings. 

About  the  middle  of  October  they  are  again  dragged  up,, 
feparated,  and  fcattered  over  a  larger  fpace.  In  fpring,  they 
are  brought  to  market,  long  before  they  arrive  at  their  full 
growth.  This  hafte  proceeds  from  the  avidity  of  the  officers 
of  the  revenue,  who  receive  a  duty  of  four  carlini  a  cantaro 
for  them,  whether  old  or  young. 

When  a  long  continuance  of  heavy  rains  fwells  the  little 
ftreams  that  difcha-rge  themfelves  into  this  gulf,  the  waters 
become  muddy,  and  thefe  iifh  are  then  obferved  to  grow 
diflempered,  rotten,  and  unwholefome.  The  caufe  of  this- 
xnalady  lies  in  the  noxious  fragments  of  animals,   putrid 

vegetables,. 


2-14 


T      A      R      A      N      T      O. 

vegetables,    oily,    bituminous,    'and    fulphureous    particles, 
warned   from  the    earth   by   the  mowers.     They  cut  the 
tender  fibres  or  fingers  which  the  fifh  ftretches  out,  miftak- 
in<r  them  for  wholefome  food.      The  wounded  parts  fetter, 
and  poifon  the  whole  body.    It  is  an  obfervation  made  here, 
and  confirmed  by  long  experience,   that  all  the  teftaceous 
tribe  is  fuller,  fatter,  and  more  delicate,  during  the  new  and 
full  moon,  than  in  the  firft  and  laft  quarters.     The  differ- 
ence is  accounted  for  by  the  tides  and  currents,   which  fet 
in  ftronger  in  the  new  and  full  moon,  and  bring  with  them 
laro-e  quantities  of  bruifed  fifhes,  infects,  fruits, .  and  other 
fattening  nurture.      I  was  allured  that  nothing  caufes  fifh  to 
fpoil  fooner  than  leaving  them  expofed  to  the  beams  of  the 
moon ;   and  that  all  prudent  fifhermen,  when  out  by  night, 
cover  what  they  catch  with  an  awning.     If  they  meet  with 
any  dead  fifh  on   the   ftrand,   or   in  the  market,    they  can 
always  difcern,  by  its  colour  and  flabbinefs,  if  it  be  alhmato^ 
moon-ftruck  ;  and,  except  in  cafes  of  great  neceflity,  abftain 
from  it  as  unwholefome.     Not  having  an  opportunity  of 
verifying  this  affertion,   I  give  it  as  doubtful ;  for  I  know 
the  Italians  are  apt  to  attribute  to  the  baneful  influence  of 
the  moon  many  ftrange  effects,  which  philofophers  of  other 
nations  do  not  afcribe  to  it.     No  Italian  will  lie  down  to 
fleep,  where  moonfhine  can  reach  him. 

The  Cozze  Pelofe,  or  velvet  mufcle,  is  firft  dragged  for  in 

the  Great  Sea,  and  then  fcattered  to  breed  on  Sciaie,  or  heaps 

4  of 


T      A      R      A      N      T      O. 

of -Hones  funk  by  the  fifliermen  at  every  head-land  of  the 
Mare  Piccolo. 

Under  the  Piano,  or  eaftern  fhore,  are  the  oyfter-beds : 
no  coaft  affords  a  more  exquiflte  fort.  In  winter,  large 
hampers  of  them  are  fent  over  land  to  Naples.  The  feafon 
is  confined  by  law  to  a  term  between  the  25th  of  November 
and  Eafter  Sunday. 

Brundufium  was  the  great  fupplier  of  oyfters  for  the 
Roman  tables.  From  that  port,  the  fpawn  was  carried  to 
flock  their  public  refer voirs  at  the  Lucrene  Lake,  near  Baije^ 
and  no  mention  is  made  by  the  ancients  of  the  excellence  of 
any  Tarentine  mell-fim  except  the  fcallop*.  It  is  therefore 
not  unlikely  that  oyfter  fpawn  has  been  brought  to  Taranto 
from  Brindifi,  and  better  preferved  than  at  the  original  bed, 
where  the  obftruclions  in  the  mouth  of  the  harbour  have 
ruined  all  the  fimeries  f .. 

The 

*  Pectinibus  patulis  ja&at  fe  molle  Tarentum.  Hor.  Sat. 

f  I  received  from  my  friend,  F.  Ant.  Minafi,  the  following  Lift  of 
Shell-fifh  found  in  the  Tarentine  waters.  He  drew  it  up  according  to  the 
Linnasan  fyftem  from  a  large  aflbrtment  of  fpecimens,  which  he  was  commif- 
fioned  to  clafs,  before  they  were  prefented  by  the  Archbifhop  of  Taranto  to  the 
Infant  Don  Gabriel.  Had  my  learned  correfpondent  had  an  opportunity  of 
vifuing  thole  leas,  it  is  more  than  probable  that  his  piercing  and  experienced- 
eye  would  have  dilcovered  other  fpecies,  if  not  genera,  of  fifties. 

1.  Chiton  fquamofus  et  cinereus  7.  Solen  enfis 

2.  Lepas  balanus  8.  Solen  legumen 

3.  Lepas  anatifera  9.  Solen  ftrigilatus 

4.  Lepas    teftudinaria — altera  radiis       10.  Tellina  anomala 

6,  et  altera  5.  11.  Tellina  carnaria 

5.  Pholas  dactylus  cum  cardine  re-       12.  Tellina  roftrau 

curvato  connexoque  cartilagine      13.  Tellina  Punicea 

6.  Mya  pictorum  14.  Tellina  fragilis 

j  5.  Tellina 


245 


24$ 


R 


N 


O. 


The  papyraceous  Nautilus  is  fometimes,  but  very  rarely, 
feen  fpreading  the  wonderful  mechanifm  of  its  fail  and  oars 


15- 

Tellina  planata 

ss- 

Bulla  aperta 

16. 

Cardium  aculeatum 

56. 

Bulla  Naucus 

i7- 

Cardium  edule 

57- 

Bulla  hydatis 

18. 

Cardium  rufticum 

58. 

Voluta  cancellata 

19. 

Maftra  ftriatula 

59- 

Voluta  glabella 

20. 

Donax  trunculus 

60. 

Buccinum  echinophorum 

21. 

Venus  \stn 

61. 

Strombus  pes  pellicani 

22. 

Venus  Paphia 

62. 

Strombus  lentiginofus 

23- 

Venus  callypige 

63. 

Murex  faxatilis 

24. 

Venus  deflorata 

64. 

Murex  reticularis 

25. 

Spondylus  Gsederopus 

«5- 

Murex  coftatus 

26. 

Chama  antiquata 

66. 

Murex  cutaceus 

27. 

Area  Nose 

67. 

Murex  pufio 

28. 

Area  barbata 

68. 

Murex  cornutus 

29. 

Anomia  ephiffium 

69. 

Murex  erinaceus 

SO- 

Mytilus  edulis 

70. 

Murex  pileare 

31- 

Pinna  nobilis 

7'- 

Murex  triqueter 

3*- 

Argonauta  Argo 

72. 

Murex  fulcatus 

33- 

Buccinum  galea 

73- 

Trochus  teffulatus 

34- 

Buccinum  maculatum 

74- 

Trochus  umbilicaris 

35- 

Buccinum  Tritonis 

75- 

Turbo  cochlus 

36. 

Echinus  Cidaris 

76. 

Turbo  pullus 

37- 

Echinus  efculentus 

77- 

Turbo  nod->lofus 

38- 

Echinus  faxatilis 

78. 

Helix  picta 

39- 

Echinus  mamillaris 

79- 

Neiita  littoralis 

40. 

Echinus  placenta 

80. 

Ncr  ta  c*nr£ena 

41. 

Serpula  anguina 

81. 

INerita  rufa 

42. 

Oftrea  edulis 

82. 

Hali'uis  Midas 

43- 

Oftrea  Jacobea 

H* 

Patella  finuata 

44- 

Oftrea  bullata 

84. 

Pateila  lutea 

45- 

Oftrea  pufio 

85. 

Patella  ruftica 

46. 

Oftrea  fanguinea 

86. 

Patella  fufca 

47- 

Oftrea  varia 

87. 

Patella  puftula 

48. 

Oftrea  lima 

88. 

Patella  Gra?ca 

49. 

Oftrea  radula 

89. 

Dentalium  dentalis 

50. 

Cyprea  talpa 

9c 

Dentalium  corneum 

5>- 

Cyprea  lurida 

91. 

Serpula  arenaria 

52. 

Cyprea  caput  ferpentis 

92. 

Serpula  vermicularis 

53- 

Cyprea  pediculus 

93* 

Serpula  contortuplicata. 

54' 

Conus  monachus 

in 


T      A       R       A      N       T       O.  217 

m  the  fmooth  bays  of  the  Mare  Grande;  and  fometimes 
fifhermen  furprife  trumpet-fhells  of  a  prodigious  bulk 
afleep,  floating  on  the  furface  of  the  water  in  a  fultry  day. 

Very  fine  branchy  coral  is  found  along  the  coaft  eaft  of 
the  city.  The  places  are  kept  a  profound  fecret.  Marks 
are  fet  up  on  land,  by  which  the  Tarentines  fleer  their 
courfe,  and  fink  their  hooks  and  crofs-beams  exactly  in  the 
middle  of  a  coral  bed,  while  ftrangers  muft  row  about  the 
whole  day  dragging,  without  a  guide,  or  certainty  of  bring- 
ing up  a  fingle  twig.  There  was,  a  few  years  ago,  fuch 
abundance  of  coral  near  thefe  fhores,  that  a  boat's  crew 
was  once  known  to  draw  up  in  one  day  as  much  as  fold  for 
five  hundred  ducats  (93/.  15  s.).  Large  pieces  may  be  had 
for  about  five  ducats  per  rotolo,  which  at  Taranto  contains 
only  thirteen  ounces. 

Under  Cape  St.  Vito,  once  famous  for  an  abbey  of  Bafi- 
lian  monks,  and  in  moft  parts  of  the  Mare  Grande,  the 
rocks  are  ftudded  with  the  Pinna  Marina.  This  bivalved 
fhell  of  the  mufcle  tribe  frequently  exceeds  two  feet  in 
length.  It  fattens  itfelf  to  the  (tones  by  its  hinge,  and 
throws  out  a  large  tuft  of  filky  threads,  which  float  and 
play  about  to  allure  fmall  fifli :  amidff.  thefe  filaments  is  ge- 
nerally found,  befides  other  infects,  a  fmall  fhrimp,  called 
by  the  ancients,  Cancer  Pinnotheres,  by  the  modern  Ta- 
rentines, Caurella.  This  little  cruftaceous  animal  was  ima- 
gined to  be  generated  with  the  Pinna,  and  appointed  by- 
nature  to  act  as  a  watchman,  in  apprizing  it  of  the  approach 

K  k  cf 


248  T       A       R       A      N       T      O. 

of  prey  or  enemies ;  and  that,  upon  the  leaft  alarm,  this 
guard  flipt  down  into  the  fhell,  which  was  inftantly  clofed: 
but  more  accurate  obfervers  have  difcovered,  that  the  poor 
fhrimp  is  no  more  than  a  prey  itfelf,  and  by  no  means  a 
centinel  for  the  mufcle,  which  in  its  turn  frequently  falls  a 
victim  to  the  wiles  of  the  Polypus  Octopedia.  In  very  calm 
weather,  this  rapacious  pirate  may  be  feen  ftealing  towards 
the  yawning  fhells  with  a  pebble  in  his  claws,  which  he 
darts  fo  dexteroufly  into  the  aperture,  that  the  Pinna  cannot 
fhut  itfelf  up  clofe  enough  to  pinch  off  the  feelers  of  its 
antagonifr,  or  faveits  flefh  from  his  ravenous  tooth.  The  Pinna 
is  torn  off  the  rocks  with  hooks,  and  broken  for  the  fake  of  its 
bunch  of  filk  called  Lanapenna,  which  is  fold,  in  its  rude  flate, 
for  about  fifteen  carlini  a  pound,  to  women  that  warn  it  well 
with  foap  and  frefh  water,  When  it  is  perfectly  cleanfed  of 
all  its  impurities,  they  dry  it  in  the  made,  ftraiten  it  with 
a  lar?e  comb,  cut  off  the  ufelefs  root,  and  card  the  re- 
mainder;  by  which  means  they  reduce  a  pound  of  coarfe 
filaments  to  about  three  ounces  of  fine  thread.  This  they 
knit  into  ftockings,  gloves,  caps,  and  waiftcoats ;  but 
they  commonly  mix  a  little  filk  as  a  ftrengthener.  This 
web  is  of  a  beautiful  yellow  brown,  refembling  the  bur- 
nifhed  sold  on  the  back  of  fome  flies  and  beetles.  I  was 
told  that  the  Lanapenna  receives  its  glofs  from  being  fteeped 
in  lemon  juice,  and  being  afterwards  preflcd  down  with  a 
taylor's  goofe. 


R 


N 


O. 


249 


SECTION     XXXIII. 


HpHE  Teas  of  Taranto  are  as  copiouily  flocked  with  the 
fcaly  and  finny  tribe,  as  with  the  cruftaceous  and  tefta- 
ceou-1.  The  quantity  and  varieties  are  very  confiderable ; 
but  fifh  caught  in  the  lefTer  Tea  bears  the  liighcft  price,  as 
furpa fling  in  delicacy  and  firmnefs  that  taken  in  the  larger. 
This  is  contrary  to  what  we  experience  in  other  countries, 
and  rauft  be  owing  to  fome  peculiar  quality  in  the  water 
and  fituation;  for,  in  general,  fifh  found  in  ftill  bays,  and 
near  the  fhore,  is  inferior  in  tafte  to  that  which  is  captured 
farther  out,  and  in  places  where  the  currents  beat  it  about,  ' 
and    feem  to    keep   it    firm   and    wholefome    by  conftant 


motion 


;;-• 


The 


*  I  do  not  pretend  to  be  acquainted  with  every  fort  of  fi(h  brought  to  this 
market,  as  at  leaft  a  year's  flay  on  the  fpot  would  be  requifite  to  acquire  that 
knowledge;  but  it  may  be  a  fatisfaction  to  many  Readers  to  have  a  Lift  of 
trivial  names,  fucii  as  it  was  roughly  made  out  to  me  by  the  fifhermen,  and 
fince  compared  widi  fome  imperfect  catalogues  I  have  had  a  fight  of. 


Tarentine  Name. 

Aguglia 
tilla 
Arciola 
Alice 
Abraiz 
Cefalo 
Caftaudielli 
Calamais 
Cheppia 
Culinudi 
Dentice 


Latin  Name. 

Sudis 
Anguilla 

Halex 

Rhombus 

Mugil 

Acus 

Loligo 

Thryfla 

Engraules 

Dentatus 


Tarentine  Name. 

Fraio 

Faloppje 

Gugione 

Goiciclo 

Linguaco'.e 

Lutrino 

Lucerna 

Murena 

Minchiarelb 

Mofa 


K  k  2 


Latin  Name. 

Gob'o 

Mormyris 

Solea 

Rubellio 

Lucerna 

Murena 

Mullus 

Tarentini 


25° 


11 


N 


O. 


The  people  of  Taranto   depend  upon  their  fifhery  for 
fubfiftence,  and  pay  very  heavy  duties  to  the  Crown,  and 
rents  to  private   perfons,    for    the   right    of  fifhing.     The 
king  receives  from  them  annually  three  thoufand  feven  hun- 
dred and  thirty-five  ducats  (700/.   6s.    3d.)  for   rent,  and 
five  thoufand  four  hundred  and  thirty  ducats  (10 18/.  2  s.  6d.), 
for   the   exclufive   privilege.     They  purchafe   the   beds  for 
fhell-fifii  of  monafteries  and  individuals,  at  the  yearly  ex- 
pence  of  fix  thoufand   one  hundred  and  fixty-eight  ducats 
(1160/.  1 3*.);   and  befides,  all  fifh  fold  to  be  carried  out 
of  the  city  is  fubjecr.  to  a  toll,  farmed  out  at  five  thoufand 
fix  hundred   and  fifteen  ducats   (1052/.  16s.  $d.)   a  year. 
An  old  regifter  book  called  11  Libro  Roflb,  kept  with  great 
care  and  veneration  in  the  cuftom-houfe,  points  out  the 


Tarentine  Name. 

Latin  Name. 

1'arentine  Name. 

Latin  Name. 

Mazzoni 

Afellus 

Scorfano 

Scorpio 

Orato 

Aurata 

Samagliaflro 

Sargus 

Occhiata 

Melanurus 

Seccia 

Ssepia 

Orva 

Sarde 

Chalcis 

Polpo 

Polypus 

Spigola 

Lupus 

Palamiti 

Pelamydes 

Sario 

Saurus 

Pefce  zaffiro 

Scarus 

Sparitielli 

Sparulus 

Pefce  ipada 

Xiphias  * 

Traulo 

Lacerta 

Ruonghi 

Conger 

Tonno 

Thynnus  f 

Ricciola 

Glaucus 

Tremola 

Torpedo 

Storione 

Acipenfer 

Triglia 

Spina 

Vopa 

Boops 

Soliole 

Urigoli 

Chelones. 

Sarpa 

Pifcis  virgatus 

•  This  fifh  feldom  makes  its  appearance  fo 

far  north. 

f  No  Tunny  filhery 

is  allowed  here,  left  th 

at  boifterous  fifh  fhould 

be  driven  up  into  the 

little  fea,  and  there  diftuib  and  deftroy  the  f 

mall  fry. 

proper 

T       A       R       A       N       T       O. 

proper  feafon  for  each  fpecies  of  fifti,  the  method  of  propa- 
gating them,  the  nets  allowed,  and  the  duty  to  be  exacted. 
The  directors  of  the  cuftoms  are  very  alert  and  rigorous  in 
inforcing  thefe  regulations.  They  take  care  to  clean  the 
{pawning  places,  and  weed  the  mouths  of  the  rivers  that 
empty  their  waters  into  the  Mare  Grande.  They  rent 
thole  ftreams  of  the  Barons  in  order  to  complete  the  mono- 
poly, and  prevent  any  disturbance  being  given  to  the  fim.  at 
improper  times. 

To  return  to  my  tour,  which  the  fifh  had  caufed  me  to 
lore  f'ght  of,  we  palled  under  the  banks  of  the  Piano, 
where  the  ancients  kept  their  wines  in  grottos  called  Diulcs. 
The  mouths  of  thefe  excavations  are  now  almoft  clofed  up 
with  rubbifh.  Some  perfons  crept  in  lately,  and  found  the 
floor  ftrewed  with  fragments  of  Amphore.  During  the  ca- 
nicular feafon,  there  ifTues  in  the  night-time  from  thefe 
caverns  a  moft  impetuous  piercing  wind. 

From  the  Piano  we  rowed  to  the  mouth  of  the  Cervaro, 
and  from  thence  to  the  promontory  of  Penna,  which  divides 
the  little  fea  into  two  unequal  bays,  As  fomething  like 
the  foundations  of  piers  may  be  obfcrved  under  water,  it 
has  been  fuppofed  by  fome  authors  that  a  bridge  formerly 
exifted,  reaching  from  this  cape  to  the  Pizzone  in  the  old 
city.  It  is  pofTible  there  may  have  been  a  boom  laid  acrofs 
for  greater  fecurity,  or  a  palTage  made  for  the  convenience 
of  the  citizens  ;  but  it  is  clear  from  Strabo,  that  anciently 
the  port  was  fhut  up  with  a  bridge  in  the  very  place  where 

4  Lwe 


251 


T       A      R       A       N       T       O. 

we  now  fee  one.  He  fays  that  the  harbour  is  *  clofed  up 
with  a  large  bridge ;  a  line  drawn  from  the  Penna  would 
only  fecure  half  of  it,  and  no  efforts  of  the  Romans  could 
have  confined  the  Tarentine  gallies,  had  not  the  garrifon 
of  the  citadel  been  in  poffefiion  of  ftrong  works  and  draw- 
bridges at  the  mouth  of  the  harbour,  which  effectually 
commanded  the  paffage. 

Not  far  from  the  Penna  istheCitrello,  a  fpace  of  thirty-five 
yards  by  eight,  where  four  ftrong  fprings  and  feveral  fmall 
ones  of  frefh  water  force  their  way  up,  and  preferve  their 
fweetnefs  amidfl:  the  brine  of  the  waves.  Shoals  of  fifh  may 
be  feen  fwimming  over  thefe  Occhi  or  fountains,  as  it  were  to 
cool  and  cleanfe  themfelves.  Thefe  boilers  are  onlv  a  con- 
tinuation  of  the  fpring  that  produces  the  brook  of  the 
Citrezze. 

From  hence  we  pafkd  under  the  bridge,  where  the  cur- 
rent fets  in  very  ftrong,  and  in  boifterous  weather  the  navi- 
gation is  hazardous.  On  the  left  hand,  near  the  city  wall, 
lies  the  (hipping  in  tolerable  fafety,  notwithstanding  the 
great  expanfe  of  the  Mare  Grande.  The  force  of  the  waves 
is  broken  by  the  iflands  of  Santa  Pelagia  and  St.  Andrew,  the 
(helves  called  Pietre  Sizzoie,  and  the  two  capes  which  complete 
the  circle.  Thofe  iflands  were  known  to  the  ancients  by 
the  name  of  Elect  rides  or  Charades;  and  if  we  may  judge 
by  fome  ruins  dill  difcernible  near  the  water,  were  cer- 
tainly inhabited.     At  prefent  their  only  inhabitants  are  rab- 


*   KAtio/z^ej. 


bits 


T      A       R       A      N       T       O.  253 

bits  that  burrow  in  the  fand,  and  under  the  bufhes,  with 
which  their  whole  furface  is  overgrown.  In  1594  Cicala  Bafla, 
anchored  at  St.  Pelagia  for  feveral  days,  to  the  great  terror  of 
all  the  people  along  the  coaft.  The  intelligence  he  received 
of  the  country  being  alarmed,  and  troops  marching  to  give 
him  a  warm  reception,  determined  him  to  weigh  anchor, 
and  fail  for  Turkey,  without  attempting  to  land, 

I  rode  next  morning  into  the  country  to  fee  how  far  its 
actual  fertility  came  up  to  the  idea  ancient  authors  have  left 
us  of  it,  and  returned  fatisfied,  that  nature  is  ftill  ready  to 
fhew  the  fame  partiality,  when  called  upon  by  the  fame  in- 
duftry  and  arts  that  tend  to  facilitate  and  improve  her 
efforts.  The  early  feafon  of  the  year  prevented  my  formino- 
any  judgment  of  the  fruits  of  the  earth.  Columella,  PJiny, 
and  Macrobius  fpeak  highly  of  the  pears  of  Tarentum,  and 
praife  its  figs,  cheftnuts,  walnuts,  and  ambrofial  almonds, 
At  prefent  the  moft  delicate  of  its  figs  is  the  Neapolitan,  a 
fmall  black  fort  that  hangs  on  the  tree  till  January. 

The  farmers  take  great  care  of  their  olive-trees;  they 
manure  and  water  the  roots,  plough  the  ground  about 
them,  and  fovv  it  with  corn,  but  never  with  oats ;  the- 
ftubble  is  cut  off  clofe,  and  fvvept  away,  to  make  room  for 
the  fruit  to  fall,  but  is  never  fet  on  fire  for  fear  of  darnaainor 
the  trees ;  the  boughs  are  not  beaten,  but  the  olives  gathered. 

The  vines,   which   are  kept  lew  and  upon  pales,   are  the 
moft  healthy  and  vigorous  I  ever  beheld ;   the  wine  is  car- 
ried in  {kins  as  in  the  days  of  paganifm,    when  it  was  a  re- 
ligious   ceremony,    as  well   as   a   gambol,  to   tumble  over 
2  the 


254  T      A       R      A      N      T      O. 

the  oiled  leathern  budget.  I  tailed  no  wine  at  Taranto  that 
pleafed  my  palate,  or  deferved  any  commendation.  Ho- 
race's Amicus  Aulon,  which  critics  have  tranfported  to 
every  hill  within  ten  miles  of  Taranto,  nay  even  fo  far  as 
Caftelvetere  in  Calabria,  feems  to  have  been  about  fix  miles 
from  the  prefent  town  to  the  eaft,  at  a  part  of  the  coall 
where  a  well -watered  valley,  fuli  of  orange  and  other  fruit- 
trees,  is  fheltered  from  every  rude  blaft  by  an  amphitheatre 
of  low  eminences,  mod  happily  adapted  to  the  growth  of 
the  vine. 

The  arable  lands  are  well  cultivated,  and  produce  wheat, 
oats,  barley,  and  cotton  in  great  abundance,  and  of  an 
excellent  found  quality.  The  cotton  manufacture  employs 
thofe  poor  Tarentines  who  are  not  able  to  follow  the  pro- 
fefllon  of  fifhermen.  The  wages  of  a  labourer  in  the  fields 
is  a  carlino  a-day.  The  ufual  method  is  to  divide  the  crop 
equally  between  the  owner  of  the  land  and  the  farmer  that 
tills  it ;  but  the  extent  of  wafte  grounds  is  immenfe,  and 
whatever  pains  may  be  bellowed  upon  corn  land,  nobody 
here  has  an  idea  of  doing  any  thing  to  improve  paflures  or 
meadows ;— - not  a  feed  is  fovvn,  weed  destroyed,  or  barren 
bum  grubbed  up. 

The  honey  I  tailed  was  fo  good,  that  I  may  affirm  no 
degeneracy  is  perceptible  among  the  modern  bees  of  Ta- 
ranto j  and,  that  the  poet  might  flill  compare  their  produce 
to  that  of  the  bees  of  Hymettus  *. 

*  «» — Ubi  non  Kynnetto 
Mella  decedunt.-  » 


R      A      N      T      Ot  25; 


SECTION     XXXIV. 

A  SITUATION,  bleft  with  fo  delicious  a  climate, 
and  fo  fine  a  haven,  mud  have  attracted  the  early 
notice  of  the  Eadern  navigators,  who,  like  Columbus, 
Drake,  and  Cook,  of  modern  times,  failed  from  home  in 
queft  of  new  worlds  and  unexplored  coafts.  Some  of  them, 
no  doubt,  ventured  up  the  Adriatic,  in  hopes  of  difcovering 
unopened  fources  of  wealth,  and  commodious  fettlements 
for  the  colonies,  which  excefs  of  population  obliged  the 
mother  country  to  fend  forth.  Let  us  confider  Taras  in 
the  light  of  another  Cortez;  but,  inftead  of  making  him  the 
captain  of  a  troop  of  bigoted  aflaflins,  let  us  fuppofe  him 
to  have  headed  a  fet  of  civilized,  humane  men,  deilrous  of 
procuring  a  good  eftablifhment  in  a  ftrange  country,  but 
unwilling  to  cement  the  foundations  of  their  new  ftate  with 
the  blood  of  the  natives.  The  wifdom  and  moderation  of 
the  adventurers  gain  the  affedions  of  the  native  favages,  and 
a  fenfe  of  mutual  intereft  unites  them  both  into  one  body. 
The  chief  of  the  new-comers  panes  in  time  for  a  being  of 
godlike  race,  and  his  companions  are  too  fenfible  of  the 
utility  of  the  deception,  not  to  encourage  the  belief.  All 
leaders  of  maritime  expeditions,  and  indeed  all  rulers  of 
nations  dwelling  near  the  fea,  were,  in  the  oriental  figura- 

L  1  tive 


;2i6  T      A      R      A      N      T      0. 

tive  language  of  thofe  ages  (vvhofe  mod  Ample  expreflions 
are  complete  riddles  for  us),  denominated  Sons  of  the 
Ocean,  of  Neptune,  or  of  fome  other  marine  Deity.  Vef- 
fels  of  a  lar^e  fize  bore  the  name  of  fome  monfter  of  the 
deep,  or  formidable  quadruped  of  the  earth.  Europa's  Bull 
was  a  (hip  of  the  firfl  magnitude ;  Phryxus's.  Ram  was  one 
of  the  fecond  rate  ',  and  we  may  prefume  that  the  Dove, 
fent  by  Jafon  to  furvey  the  paflage  of  the  Dardanelles,  was 
a  light  fluff,  proper  for  difcovery ;  the  Dolphin  on  the 
coins  of  Tarentum,  with  the  naked  man  fitting  upon  its 
back,  was  perhaps  ftruck  in  remembrance  of  Taras  and  his 
fhip.  There  feems  to  be  very  little  reafon  for  imagining 
that  Arion  is  reprefented  by  the  figure  with  a  lyre  in  its 
hand.  It  was  indeed  on  his  paflage  from  hence  to  Lefbos 
that  he  was  thrown  overboard,  and  taken  up  by  a  dolphin, 
or  a  fhip  of  that  name  ;  but  we  cannot  fuppofe  that  the 
Tarentines  were  very  eager  to  perpetuate  the  memory  of  an 
event  that  redounded  fo  little  to  their  honour. 

About  a  century  before  the  fiege  of  Troy,  a  colony  of 
Cretans  founded  Uria,  and  obtruded  themfelves  upon  the 
Tarentines,  who,  after  a  long  conteft,  were  obliged  to 
admit  them  into  their  fociety. 

In  the  twenty-firfl  Olympiad,  {o  powerful  a  body  of 
emigrants  arrived  under  Phalanthus  from  Laconia,  that  it 
may  almoft  be  called  a  fecond  foundation.  This  general 
was  marked,  from  the  firft  moment  of  his  exiftence,  for  an 
outcaft  and  an  adventurer.  He  and  all  his  followers  were 
7  the 


T      A      R      A      N      T      O.  257 

the  fpurious  iflue  of  the  Spartan  women,  whofe  hufbands, 
on  marching  againft   MefTenas,    had   made   a  vow   not   to 
return  to  their  families  till  they  had  fubdued  their  enemies. 
The  war  drawing  out  to  a  much  greater  length  than  they 
had  imagined,  thefe  warriors  began  to  be  apprehenfive  left 
the  race  of  fighting  citizens  fhould  become  extinct,  on  the 
failure  of  that  generation.      In  order  to  preferve  their  oath 
inviolate,  and  yet  fave  the  commonwealth  from  difTolution, 
they  fent  back  all  fuch  as  had  joined  the  army  after  the 
firft  campaign,   to  keep  the  women  company.      The  off- 
Ipring  of  thefe   temporary   unions   were   called  Parthenii ; 
and,  when  grown  up,  were  driven  out  to  feek  their  fortunes 
in    diftant   climes.      Being   received    into   Tarentum,    they 
acquired   a  fuperiority  over  the  natives,   new-modelled  the 
government  upon  an  ariftocratical  plan,  enlarged  the  fortifi- 
cations,   and   transformed   the   city   into   a    mere    copy   of 
Sparta.     The   very  places  were  new-named ;  and   among 
others,  the  Galefus  took  the  name  of  Eurotas. 

Moft  of  the  nobles  having  perifhed  in  a  war  with  the 
Japyges,  democracy  was  introduced.  About  the  feventieth 
Olympiad,  the  Pythagorean  philofophy  gained  a  footing  at 
Tarentum,  and  worked  wonders  in  polifhing  the  manners, 
opening  the  understanding,  and  enlarging  the  ideas  of  this 
people,  who  were  naturally  difpofed  to  traffic,  arts,  and 
fciences.  The  improvements  of  its  trade  was  the  grand 
object  that  engaged  the  attention  of  its  legiflators.  They 
knew  full  well,  that  to  the  fofrering  influence  of  commerce, 

L  1   2  as 


•58  T      A      R      A      N      T      O. 

as  much  as  to  fuccefs  in  military  exploits,  Egypt",  Phoenicia,, 
and  Greece  owed  the  very  tranfeendent  degree  of  glory  and 
power  which  they  had  attained.  Every  nerve  was  therefore 
firained  to  excite  emulation  in  the  citizens,  to  create  a  ma- 
ritime force,  to  allure  traders  to  the  mart,  and  to  render 
the  city  a  centrical  point  of  traffic  for  all  parts  of  the  mer- 
cantile world.  The  nature  of  its  fituation  feconded  their 
endeavours  ;  for  no  place  lay  more  conveniently  for  the 
trade  of  Italy,  Ulyricum,  Greece,  Afia,  and  Africa,  than 
Tarentum.  We  mud  cennder  that,  to  moff.  of  the  ancient 
mariners,  the  Mediterranean  was  an  ocean;  Spain,  a  Peru; 
Tyre,  and  fome  other  ftates  on  the  fea-coaft,  what  Britain 
and  Holland  have  been  fince,  the  great  maritime  powers ;. 
while  Egypt  and  Perfia  were  the  type  of  the  prefent  formid- 
able inland  monarchies.  In  all  the  long  range  of  fhore 
from  Rhegium  to  Sipontum,  Tarentum  was  the  only  port 
where  vefTels  fly  for  refuge  in  tempeftuous  weather.  Brim- 
dufium  is  not  fuppofed  to  have  exifted  at  fo  early  a 
period  ;  and  Croton  was  no  better  than  a  road  where  fhips 
could  not  venture  to  lie  in  winter.  Every  department  of 
the  Tarentine  government  had  an  eye  to  commerce  ;  and 
even  its  religious  games  and  feafts  were  inftituted  to  encou- 
rage barter,  and  attradl  Grangers.  In  procefs  of  time,  when 
abufes  crept  into  the  adminiftration  of  affairs,  and  giddy 
pleafure  with  unmeaning  riot  took  the  place  of  politic 
amufement,  it  was  remarked  that  the  Tarentine  calendar 
contained  more  feflivals  than  there  were  days  in  the  year* 

The 


T      A       R       A       N       T      O. 

The  fame  thing  may  be  faid  of  modern  Rome,  where  no 
day  pafles  without  bringing  with  it  the  feaft  of  a  patron, 
anniverfary  of  the  confecration  of  a  church,  or  removal  of 
fome  relic,  if  not  feveral  the  fame  day,  excluiive  of  gene- 
ral proceflions  and  folemnities.  The  different  complexion 
of  the  two  religions  prevents  the  modern  feafts  from  de- 
generating into  as  much  gaiety  and  intemperance  as  thofe 
of  Pagan  ifm. 

With  their  wealth,    the   power    of  the   Tarentines   rofc 
above  that  of  all  the  colonies  of  Magna  Grsecia  ;   their  land- 
forces  were  eftimated  at  thirty-two  thoufand  foot  and  three 
thoufand  horfe*,  in  conftant  pay;   the  number  of  citizens 
amounted  to  three  hundred  thoufand  f,  and  thirteen  con™ 
fiderable  cities  acknowledged  their  dominion;    at  fea  their 
fleets  rode  triumphant  and  unrivalled.      The  moft  brilliant 
epocha   of   their    hiftory  was    during    the    government    of 
Archytas,    whofe   profound   learning  as  a  philosopher,   and 
fkill  as  a  mechanician,   were  no  clog  upon  his  political  abi- 
lities.    His  virtues  were  of  the  nobleft  kind,  exalted  to  as 
great  fublimiry  of  excellence  as  the  plain  morality  of  the 
the  law  of  nature  is  capable  of  attaining.      He  is  faid  to  have 
invented   many  ufeful  inftruments,   and  to  have  improved 
upon  thofe  already  known.      He  frequently  led  the  Taren- 

*  The  horfe  and  rider  fo  frequent  on  the  coins  of  this  republic  allude,  per- 
haps, to  the  great  dexterity  of  the  1  arentines  in  horfemanfhip.  They  went  to 
battle  with  two  horfes  to  each  cavalier,  who,  when  one  fell  or  grew  fatigued, 
-vaulted  upon  the  other. 

■f  The  prefent  city  does  not  contain  above  eighteen  thoufand  fouls. 

tines 


259 


26o  T      A      R      A      N      T      O. 

tines  to  battle,  and  always  returned  crowned  with  frefh 
laurels.  To  ftrengthen  the  finews  of  the  Grecian  confede- 
racy, he  appointed  general  alTemblies  to  be  held  at  Heraclea, 
a  dependence  of  Tarentum,  where  every  thing  relative  to 
the  common  intereft  might  be  difculTed  and  determined. 
He  appears  to  have  been  murdered  in  fome  civil  commotion, 
and  his  body  thrown  into  the  fea. 

With  Archytas  ended  the  true  profperity  of  his  country. 
In  the  one  hundredth  Olympiad,  luxury  and  corruption  had 
gained  fuch  power  as  to  pervert  all  original  good  prin- 
ciples, both  of  morals  and  government;  to  enervate  the 
minds  and  bodies  of  the  citizens,  and  thereby  to  expofe  the 
republic,  feeble  and  defencelefs,  to  the  infults  of  the  hardy 
Barbarians  that  furrounded  it.  The  liberal  arts  did  not 
flourifh  the  worfe  for  this  degeneracy  ;  luxury  and  foftnefs 
of  manners  are  as  favourable  to  their  advancement,  as  a 
rich  mellow  foil  is  to  the  vegetation  of  a  beautiful  flower- 
ing plant.  Though  the  rude  conquerors  of  the  Tarentines 
have  deprived  us  of  the  fight  of  their  admirable  per- 
formances in  painting,  fculpture,  and  architecture,  we  may 
ftill  form  an  idea  of  the  exquifitenefs  of  their  tafte  by  their 

coins*.     The  number  of  learned  men  born  at  Tarentum, 

or 

*  Nummi  Tarentorum. 
AUR.  i.  Caput  muliebre  comptis  capillis,  delphines  duo,  TAPA2.=Puer 
nudus  equo  infidens  fupra  volitante  victoria,  delphin,  fydus 

SA. 

2.  Cap.  puellae  cum  monili  E   TAPANTlNflN.=Puer  nudus  delphi- 

num  inequitans  excensa  dextera  delphinum,  laeva  tridentem 
tenens  TAPAE. 

3.  Cap. 


T      A      R      A      N      T      O.  *6i- 

or  educated  in  its  fchools,  is  a  fufficient  proof  of  the  efteem 
in  which  fcience  and  polite  literature  were  held.     Ariftoxe- 

nus 

3.  Cap.  imb.  laureatum.=Aquila  TAPANTIN". 

4.  Cap.  imb.  laur.  delphin   ZA  TAPAZ,=Hercules  cum  leone  decer- 

tans,  arcus  KN. 

5.  Cap.  gal.  NL=Noc~t.ua  apertis  alis  infiftens  fulmini. 

6.  Cap.  imb.  pelle  leonina  tectum,  rrjuvenis  nudus  delph.  ineq.  dex:, 

extensa  diotam,  lasva  haftam  tenens  TAPAZ. 

7.  Cap.  imb.  tectum  pelle  leonina.mBigse  aurigante  Neptuno  dext. 

habenas  la?,  tridentem.  TAPANTINI2N. 

8.  Cap.  Jovis  barbae  laur.  fulmen.=Aquila  alis  expanfis  fulm.  inf,- 

ante  avem  Pallas  hafta  minax  TAPANTINX2N. 

9.  Cap.  imb.  laur.  ff.=Aquila  fulm.  inf.  TAPANTINX2N  AE. 

10.  Cap.  Minerva  gal.  TAPANTINIlN.=Vicloria  in  curru  a  duob. 
delphinibus.  trac.  NIK. 

ARC    I.  Mulier  <equo  inf.  <M-*IAHMENOZ.=Homo  delp.  inf.  d.  tripodem.- 
f.  trid.  cap.  bovinum  TAPAZ. 

2.  Eques  sr-ATKINOS.=Homo  delp.  inf.  d.  trid.  1.  pallium  noctua 

TAP  AS. 

3.  Cap.  mul.  cliad.  =  Mulier  equo  inf.  TA  cornucopias,  delphin. 

4.  Cap.  mul.  diad.  — mul.  equo  inf.  delphin.  dimidium  caprse  TA. 

5.  Eques.  — Homo  nud.  delp.  inf.  TAPAZ. 

6.  Eques.=Homo  nud.  del,  inf.  facem  tenens  Z. 

7.  Eques.=Homo  delp.  inf.  tridentem  ten.  fubt.  undas  K.  TAP. 

8.  Eques  tripus  ZAAA  sn.zr  Mulier  colum.  ten.  delp.  inf.  TAPAZ. 

9.  Eques  galeatus  cum  clypeo  et  hafta.  =  Mulier  delp.  inf.  velata  d. 
botrum  1.  colum.  TAPAZ  AMO. 

10.  Eques   hominem   calcans.=Homo  fupra  delp.  genu  flexonixuc- 
clyp.  ten.  TAPAZ.  NOS. 

11.  Duo  equites,   alter  cum  clava,  alter  cum  lancea  £ENO$IAA.= 
Homo  delp.  inf.  cum  clypeo  d.  victoriolam,  1.  duogacula  LQ. 

12.  Concha.zr  Homo  delp.  inf.  d.  facculum  I.  tridentem  TAEAZ. 

13.  Cap.  Palladis.  -Hercules  infans  duos  ferpentes  fuftbeans.  TA. 

14.  Cap.  mul.—  Hercules  leonem  trucidans. 

15.  Cap  Jovis.  — Delphin. 

16.  Eques,  victoria  equum  ducente.=Homo  delp.  inf, 

17.  Homo  delp.  inf.=Equus  marinus. 

iS.  Cap*. 


2$$  T      A      R      A      N      T      O. 

nus  is,  I  believe,  the  only  author  of  whofe  works  even  a 
fragment  has  been  preferved.  He  was  a  philofophical 
writer  upon  mufic,  for  which  he  feems  to  have  felt  extra- 
ordinary enthufiafm,  as  he  afferts  that  the  efTence  of  the 
human  foul  is  harmony. 


A 


SECTION      XXXV. 

BOUT  three  hundred  years  before  Cbrift,  the  Taren- 
tine  republic,  confcious  of  the  effeminacy  and  incapa- 
city of  its  own  citizens,  began  to  employ  foreign  general 
and  mercenary  troops  to  fight  its  battles.  Being  hard 
preiTed  by  the  Lucanians,  the  Tarentines  called  to  their  aid 
Alexander  King  of  Epirus,  who  fecured  them  againfi:  the 
enterprizes  of  thofe  barbarians  at  the  expence  of  his  own  life. 
Fifty-feven  years  after  his  death,  Pyrrhus,  alfo  King  of  Epi- 
rus, came  over  to  defend  them  againft  the  Romans.  That 
ambitious   people   had  levelled   almoft  all  the  barriers  that 

18.  Cap.  Minerva;.  —  Nodtua  TAP. 

19.  Cap.  Cereris  TAPA£.:r  Eques  haftam  vibrans. 

20.  Vir  nudus  equo  inf.  cap.  rad.  haft.  vib.  API.=Vir  delp.   inf.  d. 
vaf.  f.  temonem.  TAPAi.  KA.  En. 

21.  Eques  haft.  vib. —Vir  delp.  inf.  cum  vicloriola  hafta  et  clypeo. 

22.  Eques  victoriam  calcans.:^  Vir  delp.  inf,  HOP. 
JER.    1.  Cap.  Herculis.zz  bques  A.  r. 

2.  Cap.  mulieb.=-Concha.  delphin. 

3.  Cap.  imb.  —  Delphin. 

4.  Figura  delph.  inf.  d.  cor.  1.  cornuc.  — Concha. 

5.  Caput,  barb.  diad.  '&.  —  Pifcis. 

2  protected 


T      A      R      A      N      T      O.  263 

protected  the  foft  Tarentine  nation,  and  nothing  was  want- 
ing but  a  tolerable  pretext  for  commencing  hoftilities,  which 
could  not  fail  to  add  thefe  rich  coafts  to  their  other  ufurpa- 
tions.  Rome  had  never  fhewn  herfelf  very  fcrupulous  or 
nice  in  the  choice  of  her  reafons  for  affaulting  a  neighbour ; 
but,  on  the  preient  occafion,  Tarentum  furnifhed  her  with 
a  caufe  of  war,  which,  if  we  may  truft  the  very  fufpicious 
teftimony  of  the  Latin  hiftorians,  would  be  deemed  fuffi- 
ciently  weighty  by  the  mofc  rigid  cafuift.  A  Roman  fleet 
bringing  corn  from  Apulia,  and  pafTing  within  light  of 
Tarentum,  was  attacked  by  the  inhabitants  of  that  city, 
the  fhips  deftroyed,  and  the  crews  maffacred.  The  am- 
baffadors,  fent  to  demand  fatisfaclion,  were  treated  with 
the  utmoft  indignity,  and  the  refentment  of  the  Romans 
fet  at  defiance.  But  if  we  pay  proper  attention  to  what  we 
read  in  Livy  and  Dionyfius  Halycarnaffieus,  we  mail  dis- 
cover fomething  that  may  clear  the  Tarentines;  I  will  not 
fay  of  the  guilt  of  mifbehaving  to  perfons  ufually  accounted 
facred,  but  at  lead  of  having  been  wantonly  the  aggreffors. 
By  a  treaty  entered  into  fome  years  before,  the  Romans 
had  engaged  not  to  navigate  to  the  north  of  the  Lacinian 
Cape,  or  interfere  with  the  commerce  of  the  Adriatic.  A 
Roman  conful  had  rejected  with  fcorn  the  mediation  of 
the  Tarantines  in  behalf  of  the  Samnites ;  and  the  emiflaries 
of  Rome  had  fomented  infurreclions  among  the  fubjects 
of  Tarentum.  Whichfoever  of  the  parties  might  have 
juftice  on  its  fide,   it  is  but  too  obvious,  that  the  weight  of 

M  m  power 


2&4  T      A      R      A      N      T      O. 

power  preponderated  in  favour  of  Rome ;  therefore  the 
only  refource  of  her  foe  was  to  feek  defenders  wherever 
money  could  purchafe  them,  fince  the  degeneracy  of  the 
citizens  of  Tarentnm  had  deprived  them  even  of  the  idea 
of  becoming  foldiers  themfelves.  Pyrrhus,  the  firft  Gre- 
cian general  of  the  age,  was  the  perfon  applied  to.  Al- 
lured by  avaricious  and  ambitious  motives,  he  landed  in 
Italy,  and  defeated  the  Romans  in  two  engagements ;  but 
finding  the  war  likely  to  prove  too  heavy  a  burden  for  his 
moulders,  and  his  government  irkfome  to  the  people  he  came  to 
fight  for,  he  feized  a  frivolous  pretence,  and  failed  to  Sicily, 
which  he  alfo  abandoned  for  fimilar  reafons.  He  returned 
to  Tarentum  ;  but  being  defeated  by  Curius  Dentatus 
near  Beneventum,  ftole  away  to  Greece,  and  left  his  allies 
to  make  the  bell:  terms  they  could  with  the  victor. 
The  Tarentines,  roufed  from  their  lethargy  by  defpair  and 
the  approach  of  danger,  continued  for  fome  time  to  make 
an  obftinate  defence.  They  even  perfuaded  the  Carthagi- 
nians to  fend  a  fleet  to  their  fuccour;  but  being  at  length 
obliged  to  yield  to  the  fuperior  force  of  Rome,  they  experienced 
the  mildeft  treatment  at  her  hands,  were  ranked  in  the  num- 
ber of  her  allies,  and  fufFered  to  govern  themfelves  by  their 
own  laws,  under  the  control  of  a  Roman  garrifon. 

We  hear  no  more  of  the  Tarentines  till  Hannibal  pene- 
trated into  their  country,  and  by  the  affifhnce  of  Phileme- 
nes   furprifed   their   city.     Livius,    the  Roman    Governor, 
remained  in  pofTeflion  of  the  citadel  and  entrance  of  the  port, 
•  by 


T       A       R       A      N       T       O.  265 

by  which  means  the  Tarentine  fleet  was  blocked  up  and  ren- 
dered ufelefs.  But  the  active  genius  of  the  African  general  was 
not  to  be  cramped  by  apparent  difficulties.  He  caufed  the 
galleys  to  be  brought  afhore,  placed  upon  carriages  and 
rollers,  and  thus  drawn  over  the  ifthmus,  through  the  city, 
into  the  outer  bay,  where  he  aftonifhed  the  enemy  with  the 
appearance  of  a  formidable  fleet.  This  naval  arma- 
ment, under  Democrates,  defeated  the  Roman  convoy  off 
Croton. 

It  is  a  doubt  among  antiquaries  which  is  the  place  where 
the  fhips  were  hauled  over.  The  expreflions  of  Polybius 
appear  to  indicate  the  hollow  of  the  prefent  ditch  or  cut 
made  by  Ferdinand  the  Firft,  as  it  anfwers  to  the  fpace 
between  the  wall  and  rampart  erected  by  Hannibal,  to 
prevent  the  Romans  from  {allying  out  of  the  citadel  upon 
the  town.  Gonfalvo  de  Cordova  did  the  very  fame  thing 
in  the  fame  place.  A  fimilar  expedient  was  practifed  by 
Dragut,  a  Turkifh  admiral,  in  efcaping  from  the  Genoefe 
gallies  of  D'Oria,  who  had  blocked  him  up  in  one  of  the 
bays  of  Greece. 

The  weaknefs  and  difunited  councils  of  Carthage  having 
obliged  Hannibal  to  evacuate  Italy,  his  allies  were  left  at 
the  mercy  ot  a  republic  not  always  prone  to  clemency. 
But,  before  the  departure  of  the  African  chief,  Fabius 
Maximus  had  retaken  Tarentum  by  the  treachery  of  the 
garrifon,  and  plundered  it  of  an  immenfe  treafure. 

M  m   2  From 


266  T      A      R      A      N      T      O. 

From  this  period  Tarentum  ceafed  to  be  known  in  the 
world  as  a  ftate  of  any  political  importance.  The  tide  of 
commerce  was  infenfibly  averted  into  other  channels,  and 
its  hiftory,  as  well  as  its  citizens,  funk  into  an  inglorious 
obfcurity  ;  perhaps  a  happier  fltuation  than  it  had  ever 
enjoyed  during  the  moft  mining  periods  of  its  annals.  It 
retained  a  great  amenity  of  manners,  the  effect  of  Greek 
inftitutions,  mild  climate,  and  fertile  foil,  where  no  very 
rough  exertions  were  required  to  earn  a  fubfiftence,  and 
where  the  very  air  feemed  to  breathe  the  foftnefs  of  its  own 
character  into  the  fouls  of  all  the  inhabitants.  From  the 
defcriptions  and  encomiums  of  Horace,  we  may  judge  how 
high  an  opinion  the  ancients  had  of  its  temperature. 

A  Roman  colony  was  fent  hither ;  but  this  city  appears 
to  have  returned  very  fpeedily  to  the  ftate  of  a  municipium, 
aoverned  by  its  own  laws  and  ufages,  under  the  obligation 
of  furnifhing  to  the  Roman  navy  a  certain  quota  of  fhips. 
The  liberty  it  enjoyed  muft  have  been  very  ample  ;  for  it 
was  looked  upon  in  the  light  of  a  Greek  city,  where  Roman, 
exiles  might  reftde,  as  in  a  foreign  country  ;  a  privilege  it 
enjoyed  in  common  with  Naples. 

In  the  Auguftan  age,  it  ftill  retained  the  Grecian  man- 
ners and  language;  though,  except  Rhegium  and  Naples, 
all  the  reft  of  Magna  Grascia  had  loft  every  trace  of  the 
features  of  its  mother- country,  utterly  obliterated  by  an 
intercourfe  with  barbarians.  In  the  fourth  century  after 
Chrift,  Tarentum  yielded   to   the  fame  baneful  influence, 

and 


T      A      R      A      N      T      O.  i6T 

and  the  language  of  Homer  ceafed  to  be  the  vulgar  tongue ; 
but  Greek  no  doubt  gained  a  fuperiority  over  Latin,  during 
the  tenth  and  eleventh  ages,  while  Puglia  obeyed  the  Em- 
perors of  the  Eaft.  Its  final  banifhment  was  the  confequence 
of  the  Norman  conqueft. 

The  deftruction  of  Tarentum's  independence  appears  to 
have  caufed  an  early  emigration  of  its  citizens.  Their 
numbers  were  fo  reduced  about  the  time  of  Auguftus,  that 
the  greater!  part  of  the  old  inclofure  was  deferted,  and  mod: 
of  the  inhabitants  fettled  near  the  caftle.  Here  they  laid 
out  their  forum,  in  which  they  placed  a  coloflal  ftatue  of 
Jupiter,  of  a  fize  inferior  only  to  that  of  the  Rhodian 
Apollo,  and  the  only  memorial  left  them  of  the  fplendour 
of  their  ancient  commonwealth. 

This  fituation  near  the  citadel,  was  of  particular  advan- 
tage to  the  Tarentines,  in  fecuring  them  from  the  inroads 
of  the  Goths,  who,  being  deftitute  of  a  maritime  force, 
could  make  no  attack  but  on  the  land  quarter. 

After  the  death  of  Conftans  the  Second,  in  668,  Rq~ 
muald,  Duke  of  Benevento,  conquered  this  province ;  and 
the  Greek  Patrician,  who  had  hitherto  refuted  at  Taren- 
tum,  removed  his  tribunal  to  Reggio.  On  the  decline  of 
the  Lombard  power,  the  Grecian  emperors  recovered  pof- 
feffion  of  this  country,  and'  kept  it  till  Robert  Guifcard 
drove  them  for  ever  out  of  Italy. 

In  the  year  927,  or  in  the  preceding  century  (for  the 
chronology  of  thofe  times  is  miferably  confufed),  the  Sara- 

4  ecus 


;6S  T      A      R      A       N       T       O. 

cens  or  Hungarians  deftroyed  the  city  of  Tarentum ;  but  its 
fituation  rendered  it  of  too  much  confequence  not  to  be 
fpeedily  rebuilt.  It  was  probably  on  this  re-eftablimment 
that  the  defertion  of  the  old  lite  was  completed.  Nice- 
phorus  built  the  bridge,  and  made  the  Marina,  for  the 
purpofe  of  fecuring  the  entrance  of  the  haven,  and  affording 
more  fpace  for  building  within  the  walls. 

Duke  Robert,  the  Norman,  after  the  total  expulfion  of 
the  Greeks,  created  his  fon  Bohemund  Prince  of  Taranto ; 
on  the  failure  of  whofe  iffue,  it  was  beftowed  on  Henry, 
fon  of  King  Roger  :  and  afterwards  on  William,  a  baftard 
of  that  King.  From  him  William  the  Firft  refumed  it,  as 
being  too  great  an  appanage  lor  an  illegitimate  branch  of 
the  royal  family.  It  was  part  of  the  fortune  of  Manfred  of 
Swabia,  who  long  bore  the  title  of  Piince  of  Taranto.  The 
principality  was  next  conferred  by  Charles  the  Second  upon 
his  fon  Philip,  titular  Emperor  of  Conftantinople,  whofe 
daughter,  and  at  length  fole  heirefs,  carried  it  into  the 
houfe  of  Baux.  This  family  foon  failed,  and  Raymund 
Orfini,  a  younger  fon  of  the  Earl  of  Nola,  obtained  it. 
He  had  raifed  his  fortune  by  his  own  adventurous  valour ; 
and,  taking  advantage  of  the  circumflances  of  the  times, 
affumed  an  almoftabfoluteand  independent  fwayover  thecoaft 
of  Puglia.  Upon  his  death,  his  fon  was  dripped  of  all  his 
pofTeilions  by  King  Ladiflaus,  who,  by  marrying  Raymund's 
widow,  made  himfelf  at  length  matter  of  Taranto,  the  only 
place  that   flood  out   in  defence  of   the  infant  proprietor. 

Queen 


TARANTO.  zCj 

Queen  Joan  the  Second  gave  it  to  her  hufband,  the  Earl  of 
La  Marche ;  but  he,  being  in  diftrefs  for  money  to  carry 
him  out  of  the  kingdom,  when  he  fled  from  his  wife,  fold 
the  principality  to  John  Anthony  Orfino  Balzo,  the  right 
owner.  This  Prince,  who  was  a  very  powerful  Baron, 
made  a  great  figure  in  the  troubles  that  attended  the  firft 
eftablifhment  of  the  Aragonian  Kings,  and  became  almoft 
an  independent  fovereign.  On  his  demife  without  ifflie, 
Taranto  efcheated  to  the  Crown.  Ferdinand  the  Firfr.  made 
it  a  provifion  for  his  fccond  fon  Frederick ;  after  vvhofe 
expulfion  Taranto  ceafed  to  be  feudal.  It  is  now  no  longer 
even  the  fhadow  of  that  proud  democratical  republic,  which 
dared  to  cope  with  Rome  ;  nor  is  it  the  princely  feat  of  a 
tyrannical  feudatory.  Poor  and  languishing,  both  as  to  trade 
and  manufactures,  it  foothes  its  vanity  with  the  confciouf- 
nefs  of  regal  immunities,  and  immediate  vaiTalage  under  the 
King. 

The  inhabitants  neglect  the  culture  of  their  fields,  and 
turn  all  their  attention  to  fllliing  ;  a  profefllon  hampered 
with  fewer  incumbrances,  lefs  continual  labour,  and  afford- 
ing greater  certainty  of  fuccefs.  Their  lands  are  cultivated,, 
their  corn  reaped;  by  Calabrians ;  their  paftures  covered 
with  Abruzzefe  fheep  and  fhepherds ;  while  the  modern 
Tarentines,  as  much  at  leafr.  as  their  poverty  will  allow 
them,  feem  to  copy  the  gentle,  indolent  manners  of  their 
forefathers,  citizens  of  Mclle  'Tarentujn.  They  are  ftill 
paffionately  fond  of  amufements,   and  eager  only   in  the 

purfuit 


IJO 


T      A      R      A      N      T      O. 

purfuit  of  pleafure.  Their  addrefs  is  affable,  and  pleafing 
to  Grangers  ;  their  pronunciation  lifping,  and  fofter  than 
that  of  the  -natives  of  the  neighbouring  provinces.  Here 
women  bring  forth  children  with  little  difficulty  ;  and  treat 
as  a  flight  inconvenience  thofe  dangers  and  pains,  which 
are  fo  dreadful  to  their  fex  in  moft  other  countries.  Here 
it  is  impoflible  to  cite  an  inftance  of  a  perfon's  dying  in 
childbed. 


(    *7>     ) 


JOURNEY 


FROM 


TARANTO    to    REGGIO. 


SECTION     XXXVI. 

/^N  the  fixth  of  May,  I  hired  a  guide,  and  proceeded  on 
my  journey  towards  Calabria.  About  four  miles  from 
Taranto  we  eroded  a  river,  fuppofed  by  fome  geographers 
to  be  the  Taras.  It  runs  through  marfhes  and  thickets 
of  tall  reeds,  is  deep,  and  much  reforted  to  by  wild  boars, 
who  in  fummer  defcend  in  droves  to  cool  themfelves  and 
wallow  in  the  mud.  If  diftuibed,  they  fvvim  acrofs ;  but 
foon  return,  unlefs  it  prove  a  very  wet  autumn,  and  then 
they  retire  up  to  the  drier  woods  on  the  banks  of  the 
Bradano. 

N  n  We 


272  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

We  rode  all  day  along  the  fea  friore,  between  the  beach 
and  an  immenfe  foreft  of  low  pitch-pines ;  the  underwood, 
juniper.  At  the  mouth  of  the  Lieto,  the  fea  runs  a  great 
way  up  into  the  land,  and  forms  falt-ponds,  which  in  fum- 
mer  exhale  infectious  vapours  ;  in  May,  they  were  only 
beautiful  objects  in  this  wild  and  grand  view  of  wood  and 
water.  The  whole  foil  is  fandy,  and  bears  evident  marks 
of  its  having  been  lately  recovered  from  the  fea,  either  by 
the  voluntary  receflion  of  the  watery  element,  or  by  the 
accumulation  of  earth  hurried  down  in  floods  from  the  high 
lands.  At  the  river  Bradano  *  we  left  the  province  of 
Otranto,  and  entered  that  of  Bafilicata.  It  was  alfo  the 
boundary  of  ancient  Lucania,  and  indeed  of  Italy ;  for  in 
very  early  times  that  name  was  confined  to  the  country 
fouth  of  this  limit. 

After  a  long  but  agreeable  ride  of  twenty-four  miles,  we 
flopped  at  Torre  di  Mare,  a  poor  place  near  a  ruinous 
tower,  built  by  the  Angevine  kings,  as  a  fafe-guard  to  the 
coaft ;  but,  by  the  retreat  of  the  fea,  now  at  fuch  a  diftance 
from  it,  as  no  longer  to  ferve  that  end.  The  wafte  round 
it  is  fenny,  damp,  and  unwholefome.  After  dinner  we 
ferried  over  the  Bafientof,  whereon  O&avius  Czefar  and 
Mark  Antony  had  an  interview,  brought  about  by  the  gene- 
rous mediation  of  Octavia.  Thefe  triumvirs  came  with 
their  troops  to  oppofite  banks  of  the  river.    Antony  jumped 

*  Anriencly  Eradanus. 

f  Anciently  the  Metapontus,.  or  Cafuentum. 

into 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  273 

into  a  boat,  and  pudied  off  unattended  towards  the  other 
fide ;  but  Caefar  met  him,  in  another  fluff,  half-way,  and, 
after  mutual  endeavours  to  mew  excefTive  confidence  in 
each  other,  Antony  was  perfuaded  to  give  up  the  point, 
and  fuffer  Csfar  to  accompany  him  to  Tarentum,  where 
they  were  to  agree  upon  a  plan  for  fettling  the  Roman 
empire  *. 

Near  the  mouth  of  this  river,  fome  columns,  riling  out 
of  the  fandy  hillocks,  mark  the  fituation  of  Metapontum. 
Thefe  pillars  of  coarfe  marble  ftand  in  two  rows,  which  are 
about  eighty  feet  afunder,  ten  in  one  row,  and  five  in  the 
other ;  their  diameter  five  feet,  their  height  fifteen,  the 
interfaces  ten.  Part  of  the  architrave  is  all  that  remains  of 
the  entablature.  They  are  of  the  ancient  Doric  order, 
tapering  regularly  with  a  large  cyathiform  capital  f,  and  no 
bafe  but  a  kind  of  plinth  that  belongs  to  the  whole  row. 
They  are  channelled  into  twenty  {harp  deep  flutes,  now 
much  corroded  by  the  fait  fpray,  and  the  action  of  the 
air. 

This  ftyle  of  architecture  has  fomething  in  it  folemn  and 
majeftic,  adapted  to  the  dignity  of  divine  worfhip,  or  the 
gravity  of  an  affembly  of  fenators.      Were  I  to  build  a  city, 

*  Alberti  places  this  meeting  on  the  Bradano ;  Joan.  Juvenis,  on  the 
Tara.  But,  as  Appian  exprelsly  fays  it  was  on  the  river  of  Metapontum,  it 
can  be  no  other  than  the  Bafiento. 

f  I  cannot  convey  to  die  reader  a  clearer  idea  of  the  fhape  of  this  cup- 
form  capital  (which  is  to  be  feen  at  Paeftum,  Segefta,  Selinunte,  Syracufe, 
Girgenti,  and  St.  Peter  ad  vincula  in  Rome),  than  by  comparing  it  to  a 
fiiallovv  bowl,  covered  with  a  thin  fquare  (tone. 

N  n  2  I  fhould 


274  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

I  mould  appropriate  this  noble  order  to  the  great  churches, 
town-hall,  and  exchange,  whilft  I  embdliihed  the  palaces  and 
theatres  with  the  gay  Corinthian.  I  do  not  allow  the  fame 
auguft  appearance  to  the  modern  Doric,  which  is  much 
lighter,  and  more  properly  enriched  with  ornaments. 

Thefe  are  all  the  veftiges  of  Metapontum,  a  city  once 
admirably  calculated  by  fituation  for  attaining  the  fpecies  of 
profperity  that  leems  to  have  been  the  end  conftantly  pro- 
pofed  by  its  citizens,  viz.  opulence  arifing  from  agriculture 
and  exportation  of  corn.  It  flood  on  the  flcirts  of  a  plain 
twenty-five  miles  in  length,  which,  two  thoufand  years- 
ago  (when  Metapontum  was  in  the  zenith  of  its  refpectable, 
becaufe  mod  innocent,  glory),  was  well  peopled,  full  of 
towns  and  villages,  attentively  cultivated  and  fertilized,  not 
defolated  by  the  waters,  as  they  were  then  confined  to 
proper  channels.  1  he  rich  crops  that  waved  upon  its. 
furface,  were  the  bafis  on  which  this  colony  of  Py Hans- 
grounded  their  power  and  importance.  The  honour  they 
attached  to  the  profeiTion  of  hufbandman,  and  the  fruitful-* 

nefs  of  their  territory,  are  attefted  by  their  coins*,  marked 

with. 

*  Numrr.i  Metapontorum. 
AUR.   I.   Cap    mulieb.  fpicis  redim.=  Spica  figura  virilis  META.. 

2.  Cap.  Martis  T©.z:Dus  fpicae,  apis  META. 

3.  Nodtua  ramo  inf.  =  Spica  &  caduc.-META. 
ARC   1.   Hercules  nud.  flans  clav.  ger.^ Spica  META. 

2.  Cap.  Martis,  canis  AETKinnor.  =  Spica  avis— META. 

3.  Homo  nud.  bovino  capice  d.  paceram — s.  Arundinem.=:Spica— • 

cicada  META. 

4.  Cap.  mul.  f|ic.  redim.r:  Spica  forceps  AOA— META. 

5.  Spica 


JOURNEY     TO     REGGIO.  275 

with  the  head  of  Ceres  and  an  ear  of  corn,  and  by  the 
magnificent  offering  which  thev  made  at  the  fhrine  of  the 
Delphic  Apollo.  This  prefent  confiHed  of  an  emblematical 
r,eprefentation  of  Summer  in  maflive  gold,  and  was  efteemed 
one  of  the  richeft  offerings  in  the  temple. 

Pythagoras  fpent  the  laft  years  of  his  life  at  Metapon- 
tum.  After  his  deceafe,  the  houfe  he  had  dwelt  in  was 
converted  into  a  temple  of  Ceres,  and  reforted  to  with  the 
greatefr,  veneration  by  the  Metapontines,  who  were  truly 
fenfible  of  the  advantages  they  had  derived  from  his  in- 
fix udl  ions** 

This  philosopher  was  one  of  the  molt  exalted  charade:; 
of  antiquity  ;  one  of  the  ftw  fages  who  did  not  confine  their 

5.  Spica — META.—  Incufius. 

6.  Cap.  Palladis.=Spica,  clava 

7.  Cap.  Jovis  Ammonis.=Spica  tiipus  ME. 

8.  Cap.  mulieb.  diadem.  =.Spica  META. 
y.  Cap.  bovinum.—  Spica  .META. 

10.  Cap.  Mariis  HPAKAEIAQN.  =  Duas  fpicas,  apis  META. 

11.  Cap.  Cereris. =  Spica— Ciconia  METAno. 

12.  Galea  — Circiilus  int.  duse  tsdse  META — radii  ex  granis  kordeat,. 

13.  Noc~r.ua  ramo  inf.  £  .—  Spica,  caduc.  MET. 
JER.   1.  Cap.  Pailad.  =  Spica.  METAnONT. 

2.  Tripus  luna.  gran.  hord.rzSpica  META. 

3.  Cap.  imb.  cornut.  =: Spica  MET. 

4.  Cap.  Jovis  —Spica  META. 

5.  Cap.  Apoll.  --  Spica  m:  .     . 
0.  Cap  Cereris  zzSpica  META. 

7.  Aquila  fulrrr.  inf.  rzSpica  META. 

8.  Cap.  Cereris. --Dus  fpica;  META. 

9.  Cap.  Minervas.=  Due  Ipicas  META. 

ic.  Cap.  Mercur.  alar.-  3  gr.  hord.  caduc.  META. 

*  Some  authors  write  that  he  cied,  and  that  the  temple  was  dedicated  at 
Croton. 

2  views 


276  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

views  to  private  and  partial  objects,  but  made  their  learning 
of  ufe  to  nations  at  large,  whom  they  inftructed,  enlighten- 
ed and  directed  in  the  paths  of  moral  virtue  and  real  glory. 
Many  ridiculous  ftories  are  related  of  his  opinions  and 
doctrines,  which  give  us  the  idea  of  a  viGonary  or  impoftor; 
but  we  mould  be  cautious  how  we  admit  implicity  anec- 
dotes refpecling  the  great  men  of  diftant  ages,  when  we 
find  them  clam  with  what  is  allowed  to  have  been  their 
general  line  of  conduct.  Perhaps  Pythagoras  found  it 
necefifary,  in  order  to  captivate  the  veneration  and  con- 
fidence of  a  credulous  fuperftitious  people,  that  he  mould 
propagate  ftrange  and  marvellous  figments,  and  thereby 
allure  them  to  liften  attentively  to  the  leflbns,  and  obey 
the  injunctions  of  a  lawgiver.  He  was  the  legislator,  the 
reformer  of  Magna  Grascia.  To  him  and  his  difciples  the 
little  ftates  that  compofed  it  owe  a  celebrity  which  they 
were  not  entitled  to  from  extent  of  dominion  or  conquefts. 
Their  ruin  may  be  attributed  to  the  neglect  of  his  precepts; 
or,  indeed,  in  fome  fhape  to  the  very  great  fuccefs  attend- 
ing his  inftitutions,  which  raifed  thofe  republics  to  fuch  an 
uncommon  pitch  of  profperity,  as  intoxicated  and  finally 
corrupted  their  citizens. 

The  Metapontines  were  warm  partifms  of  Hannibal, 
who,  during  many  winters,  made  this  city  his  head- quarters. 
On  the  retreat  of  the  Carthaginians,  it  was  puniihed  by  the 
Romans  for  that  attachment  with  the  lofs  of  its  liberty. 
We  are  informed  by  Strabo,  that  this  little  commonwealth 
i  of 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  277 

of  farmers  was  deftroyed  by  the  Samnites.  It  remained 
in  ruins,  becaufe  it  could  no  longer  hold  out  the  fvveets 
of  freedom,  or  die  advantages  of  trade  to  entice  inhabitants 
back  to  its  defolated  walls ;  and  the  want  of  cultivators 
fpeedily  converted  its  once  happy  plains  into  a  dreary  de- 
fert.  At  this  day  there  cannot  be  a  more  melancholy 
fight,  or  one  more  mortifying  to  the  pride  of  man,  than  this 
wide-ftretched  tract  of  land,  almoft  without  an  inhabitant ; 
fcarce  difturbed  in  any  part  by  the  plough,  full  of  brown 
marfhes  and  ftagnated  pools :  noifome  fogs  and  poifonous 
vapours  hang  over  them,  and  when  fet  in  motion  bv  the 
power  of  the  fun,  carry  difeafe  and  death  into  the  blood  of 
the  wretches  doomed  to  breathe  their  venomous  atmofphere. 
Inftead  of  a  navigable  river,  in  whofe  deep  and  capacious 
bofom  whole  fleets  might  moor  with  fafety,  the  Bafiento 
now  has  the  appearance  of  a  draggling  torrent,  impeded  by 
fand-banks  that  fhift  at  every  fhower,  and  drive  the  waters 
back  over  half  the  plain,  where  they  putrify*. 

I  flept  a  few  off  miles  to  the  weft  at  a  farm-houfe,  where 
my  friends  of  Taranto  had  previously  fecured  a  comfortable 
lodging  for  me. 

*  When  the  fhepherds  are  obliged  to  pafs  the  night  in  the  open  air  durino- 
the  bad  feafon,  their  method  of  guarding  againft  the  infection  is  as  follows  : 
A  fire  is  lighted,  on  which  they  put  a  large  pot  of  milk.  As  foon  as  it  boils, 
they  fup  up  the  hot  liquor;  cuftom  having  fufficiently  hardened  their  throats 
and  llomachs.  This  throws  them  into  a  profufe  fweat;  they  then  cover  their 
heads  with  warm  woollen  caps,  and  lie.  down  to  fleep  with  their  fctt  clofe  to 
the  fire. 

SEC- 


a78  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 


SECTION     XXXVII. 

'TpHE  next  day  we  travelled  eleven  miles  in  the  plain, 
all  one  wild  pafture ;   ferried   over  the  Agri*,  once  a 
navigable  river,  now  a  rapid  irregular  torrent,  and  baited  at 
Policoro,   a  very  considerable  farm  lately  belonging  to  the 
Jefuits,  at  prefent  in  the  hands  of  the  Crown.     I  believe 
thefe   pofleflions  do   not   yield   to    his    Sicilian   Majefty  fo 
great   a   revenue  as   they   did    to  that    intelligent   fociety. 
Thofe  fathers  had  a  noble  eftate  here,    bounded  by  the  fea, 
the  rivers  Agri  and  Sinno-f;   and  the  mountains,  containing 
all   kinds   of  land,    pafture,   wood,   arable  and  falt-marfh. 
The  buildings  that  were  raifed  to  contain  the  produce  of  fo 
large   a   firm,    to  houfe   the   numerous    herds    and   flocks, 
and    to   lodge   the    ftewards   and    fervants   requifite  for  the 
conducing  of  fuch  an  eftablifhment,  are  all  laid  out  upon 
tie  great  fcale  that  marked  every  undertaking  of  that  politic 
congregation.      Not   many  years   before   the   diflolution    of 
their  order,    they  had  a  (lock  of  five  thoufand  fheep,    three 
hundred  cows  and  oxen,  four  hundred  buffaloes,  four  hundred 
goats,  and  two  hundred  horfes,  under  the  care  of  three  hun- 
dred fervants.      At  prefent   things   wear  a  different  afpeel, 
.     I   feem  verging  to  ruin   rather   than    advancing   towards 
greater  perfection.      During  the  hot  feafon,  when  the  air  is 

*  Anciently,  Achis.  f  Anciently,  Siris. 

all 


JOURNEY     TO     REGGIO.  27?. 

all  on  fire  and  very  feverifh,  the  Jefuits  were  wont  to 
retire  into  the  mountains  to  Latronico,  another  of  their 
eftates. 

At  the  wood  near  the  banks  of  the  Agri,  and  about  three 
miles  from  the  fea,  are  fome  heaps  of  rubbifh,  that  fix  the 
fituation  of  Heraclea  *.  And  according  to  the  moft  probable 
conjectures,  near  the  mouth  of  the  Sinno  was  Siris,  the  port 
of  that  city.  At  prefent  there  is  nothing  but  an  open  road, 
where  mips  may  lie  to  take  in  a  cargo  of  corn  and  other 
commodities,  of  which  liquorice  is  one,  a  root  that  grows 
wild  in  great  quantities  along  thefe  fwamps  -f  >  allowing  for 

*  Nummi  Heracleas. 
AUR.   1.  Cap.  Palladis.=Hercules  Icon,  ftrangul.  1$.  HPA. 

2.  Cap.  Palladis.  =Hercules  clava  leon.  feriens  HPAKAHKIN. 

3.  Cap.  Muli.  delph.  2A.=Fig.  vir.  nud.  delph.  inf.  d.  avem.  f,  trident. 

r-H.  fubrus  undae. 

ARG.   1.  Cap.  Palladis  cum   monft.  mar.  in  galea.=Hercules  nud.  ftans  d. 
clavam  f.  arcum  &  fpol.  leon.  HPAKAHLQN. 

2.  Cap.    Palladis.  c=  Hercules  leon.    ftrang.  clava.  noclua  flip.  hum. 

leonis  hHPAKAH. 

3.  Cap.  Palladis.=Noclua  ramo  inf.  HPAKAHI. 

4.  Cap.  Pallad.=Hercules  nud.  ftans  clav.  nixus  fpol.  leon.  tectus 

mi  <I>IAIi  J-HPAK. 

5.  Homo  nudus  delp.  inequ.  d.  diotam.  f.  trident,  fub.  undse  hHP.= 

Eques  nudus  fupervolitante  viftor.  IT. 

6.  Cap.  Herculis.=:Leo  gradiens  HE. 

7.  Cap.  leonis.  =Pharetra  hHPA. 

7ER.   1.  Cap.  imb.  laur.  ftella.=Clava  pharetra.  Arcus  l-H. 

2.  Cap.  Pall.  laur.    &   gal.=Hercules  ftans  d.  pat.  f.  clav.   hHPA- 

KAEIilN. 

3.  Cap.  Herculis  =  Clava  pliaretra  r-HPAKAEiriN. 

4.  Cap.  gal.nTrophasum  t-HPAKAEinN. 

t  The  fale  of  this  root  is  laid  to  produce  700/.  a-year  to  the  Duke  of  Co- 
rigliano. 

O  o  all 


"D 


280  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

all  the  alterations  that  fo  many  revolving  ages  may  have 
made  in  this  abandoned  more,  it  is  a  great  matter  of  doubt 
with  me,  whether  there  ever  was  any  good  harbour  here ;  or, 
even  in  the  Agri,  a  much  larger  river,  becaufe  the  fhape 
and  expofure  of  the  coaft  reprobates  that  idea;  efpecially  as 
all  ancjent  authors  agree,  that  no  bay  between  Rhegium  and 
Tarentum  was  tenable  after  the  autumnal  equinox.  It  is 
therefore  more  than  probable  that  mips  of  burden  feldom 
anchored  in  this  place. 

Siris  *  was  a  very  ancient  city,  founded  by  Trojans,  and 
renowned  for  its  college  of  priefts  fkilled  in  cabaliftic  lore. 
It  became  a  dependance  of  Heraclea,  to  which  the  principal 
inhabitants  of  Siris  were  obliged  to  remove.  Heraclea  was  the 
point  of  rendezvous  agreed  upon  by  the  whole  Greek  con- 
federacy, where  their  general  interefts  and  difputes  were  to 
be  fettled.  Upon  its  medals,  many  of  which  I  purchafed  of  the 
peafants,  is  the  figure  of  Hercules  tearing  open  the  jaws  of  the 
Nemaean  lion.  It  is  probable  that  Zeuxis,  one  of  the  moft: 
celebrated  painters  of  antiquity,  was  a  native  of  this  place 
rather  than  of  any  other  Heraclea,  as  his  moft  capital  per- 
formances were  placed  in  the  cities  of  Magna  Graacia.  The 
banks  of  the  Sinno  are  famous  in  Roman  hiftory  for  the 
vi&ory  gained  by  Pyrrhus  over  the  Conful  Levinus,   in  the 

*  Nummi  Sirinorum. 
MR.   I.  Prora  navis  CElRlZ.=Vas  folium  pamp.  KOTN. 

2.  Cap.  Mercurii  petafatum.  AA.=Aquila.  corona  EEIRL 

3.  Cap.  Mercurii  pet.  CEI.=Vas. 

1  year 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO,  28i 

year  of  Rome  473.  This  was  the  firfl:  encounter  the 
Epirote  had  with  the  Romans.  He  purchafed  the  honour 
of  the  day  at  the  expence  of  the  flower  of  his  army,  and 
thereby  became  fenflble  of  the  difficulties  that  awaited  the 
profecution  of  his  enterprize.  He  was  indebted  for  his 
fuccefs  to  his  own  perfonal  intrepidity,  and  to  the  panic 
which  the  firft,  fight  of  elephants  ftruck  into  the  legions. 

The  neighbouring  hills  are  compofed  of  calcareous  to- 
phus, replete  with  (hells  incrufted  over,  or  petrified.  Whole 
fkeletons  of  the  larger  tribe  of  quadrupeds  have  been  dug 
out  of  thefe  ftony  ftrata.  At  Rocca  Imperiale,  or  near  it, 
was  the  town  of  Lagaria,  a  colony  of  the  Phoceans,  noted 
in  antiquity  for  a  fweet  and  foft  wine  much  efteemed  by 
phyiicians  as  a  cordial. 

At  Monte  Giordano  we  entered  the  Upper  or  Hither 
Calabria.  The  inn  wearing  the  face  of  dirt  and  poverty,  I 
rode  four  miles  farther  to  Rofeto,  where  my  guide  afTured 
me  he  had  an  acquaintance  that  would  be  happy  to  accom- 
modate me  with  a  room.  The  high  lands  approach  very 
near  to  the  fea,  and  are  tolerably  cultivated  :  much  of  the 
land  fown  with  cotton. 

At  Rofeto,  which  is  but  a  poor  place,  I  was  very  hofpi- 
tably  received  by  a  prieft.  The  old  man  plied  me  with 
many  queftions  concerning  Naples,  England,  and  America; 
and,  in  return  for  my  readinefs  in  gratifying  his  curiofity, 
entered  with  great  good  fenfe  into  a  detail  of  the  manners 
and  cuftoms  of  his  own  country,  and  informed  me  of  many 

O  o  2  particulars 


282  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

particulars  I  was  an  entire  Granger  to.  I  learned  from  him, 
that  population  is  daily  decreafing  within  the  circle  of  his 
knowledge,  from  many  caufes  arifing  out  of  the  general 
government  of  the  kingdom,  of  which  he  acknowledged 
himfelf  an  incompetent  judge;  and  alfo,  from  many  others 
that  were  within  his  fphere,  and  were  daily  felt  by  him. 
He  attributed,  but  methinks  without  fufficient  ground;-', 
this  progrefs  of  depopulation  to  the  cuftom  followed  by  the 
Calabrians,  of  never  marrying  beyond  the  limits  of  their  own 
townmip,  which  he  thought  perpetuated  defe&s  and  dif- 
orders  among  them,  and  from  a  want  of  proper  crofTes  in 
the  breed,  ended  in  barrennefs  and  the  extinction  of  fami- 
lies. By  thefe  means  all  the  peafants  of  a  village  are  nearly 
related.  The  marriage-portion  of  a  girl  depends  upon  the 
wealth  and  numbers  of  the  family,  and  generally  confifts  of 
a  piece  of  vineyard,  or  a  fingle  fruit-tree,  among  which  the 
mulberry  holds  the  firft  rank  for  honour  and  profit. 

The  common  mode  of  letting  farms  of  baronial  or  eccle- 
fiaftical  eftates  throughout  Calabria,  is  by  a  leafe  of  two 
years,  with  many  claufes  and  reftrictions.  Proprietors  of  land 
of  plebeian  rank  extend  the  term  to  fix  years,  and  allow  the 
tenant  the  liberty  of  cutting  a  fiipulated  quantity  of  wood, 
on  condition  of  his  fencing  off  an  equal  portion  to  fpring 
up  again. 

The  Barons  are  in  general  very  far  from  considering 
themfelvcs  as  the  protectors,  the  political  fathers  of  their 
vaffuls,   but   encroach   fo   much  on   the  commons  and  the 

cultivated 


JOURNEY    TO     REGGIO.  283 

cultivated  grounds,  for  the  fake  of  extending  their  chace, 
that  the  peafants  have  neither  room  nor  opportunity  to  raife 
fufficient  food  for  their  fupport ;  they  therefore  fly  to  the 
mendicant  and  other  orders  of  friars,  and  take  the  religious 
habit  to  procure  a  fubfiftence.  The  father  of  a  family, 
when  preffed  for  the  payment  of  taxes,  and  finking  beneath 
the  load  of  hunger  and  diftrefs,  va  alia  montagna^  that  is, 
retires  to  the  woods,  where  he  meets  with  fcllow-fufferers, 
turns  fmuggler,  and  becomes  by  degrees  an  outlaw,  a  rob- 
ber, and  an  aflaiTin. 

However,  matters  are  not  yet  in  fo  defperate  a  Situation, 
as  to  preclude  all  pofiibility  of  reftoring  thefe  provinces  to  a 
ftate  of  opulence  and  populoufnefs.  If  government  were 
more  attentive  to  the  general  good  than  particular  interefts ; 
if  juftice  were  administered  with  more  honefty  and  impar- 
tiality by  the  fuperior  magiftrates,  and  lefs  rapacioufnefs 
by  the  fubalterns;  if  taxes  were  more  equally  and  judici- 
ouily  impofed,  and  more  tenderly  exacted;  if  the  aggrieved 
peafant  had  a  refuge  to  fly  to  in  the  day  of  oppreflion, 
thefe  fertile  countries  might  emerge  from  their  prefent  ftate 
of  defolation,  and  rich  flourifhing  towns  might  again  rife 
along  the  now  deferted  mores.  The  women  are  endowed 
by  nature  with  fufficient  fecundity,  and  bring  forth  their 
offspring  almofi:  without  a  groan.  It  is  a  common  thing 
for  a  woman,  far  gone  with  child,  to  go  up  to  the  foreft  for 
fuel,  and  to  be  there  furprifed  with  the  pains  of  childbirth, 
perhaps  battened  by  her  toil :  She  is  novvife  difmayed  at  the 

folitude 


2S4  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

folitude  all  around  her,  or  the  diftance  from  home,  but 
delivers  herfelf  of  the  infant,  which  fhe  folds  up  in  her 
apron,  and,  after  a  little  reft,  carries  to  her  cottage.  It  is  a 
proverb  much  in  ufe  in  the  neighbouring  provinces,  Che  una 
ferva  Calabrefe  piu  ama  far  un  figlio  ehe  un  bucato^  i.  e. 
"  A  Calabrian  maid-fervant  prefers  the  labour  of  childbirth 
"  to  that  of  a  wafh." 

The  Calabrians  have  fbme  very  capricious  notions  deeply 
rooted  in  their  minds.  One  is,  that  every  child,  whofe 
mother  has  been  true  to  her  marriage  vow,  muft  neceflarily 
refemble  the  father.  It  is  no  doubt  an  eafy  matter  to  per- 
fuade  a  peafant,  who  feldom  confiders  the  lineaments  of  his 
face  in  a  glafs,  that  the  features  of  the  infant  are  miniature 
copies  of  his ;  but  if  he  were  to  become  thoroughly  con- 
vinced that  no  fuch  refemblance  exifted,  he  would  never  be 
perfuaded  to  pardon  his  wife,  or  look  upon  the  child  in  any 
other  light  than  that  of  a  baftard. 

It  is  thought  a  reproach  to  have  been  fuckled  by  any  but 
one's  own  mother.  This  cafe  feldom  happens,  for  the  wo- 
men recover  with  fo  much  eafe  after  lying-in,  that  kw 
children  are  expofed  to  the  neceflity  of  fucking  a  ftrange 
bread. 

They  repofe  great  confidence  in  judgments,  and  expect 
to  fee  eveiy  perfon  that  jeers  at  another's  defects,  afflicted 
with  the  fame ;  but  have  a  milder  idea  of  the  penalty 
•attending  paflionate  oaths  and  hafty  curfes;  if  the  party 
offending  repent,  they  fuppofe  all  danger  is  blown  over. 

Inocu- 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  285 

Inoculation  has  been  attempted  in  one  place  only,  near 
Reggio ;  but  from  ill  fuccefs  in  fome  inftances,  and  the 
fuperftitious  averfion  of  the  vulgar,  thofe  who  have  under- 
gone the  operation  are  held  in  utter  contempt,  and  marked 
by  fbme  opprobrious  nickname. 

If  a  perfon  dies  in  the  fields  by  a  violent  or  accidental 
death,  it  is  believed  that  his  fpirit  will  appear  in  the  fame 
place  in  white  robes,  and  that  the  only  way  of  laying  it,  is  to 
fend  out  young  boys  to  approach  filently,  and  cover  it  with 
a  volley  of  ftones.  Not  long  ago  a  Dominican  prieft,  fittino- 
in  his  white  garment  on  a  hill  near  Tropea,  employed  in 
taking  a  fketch  of  the  country,  was  miftaken  for  the  ghoffc 
of  an  old  mad  woman  who  had  dropt  down  dead  fome  time 
before  on  that  identical  fpot.  The  apparition  brought  out 
the  youths  of  the  neighbouring  village,  and  the  friar  had  his 
brains  almoft  knocked  out  before  he  could  convince  the 
little  exorcifts  of  their  error  *. . 


SECTION     XXXVIII. 

^TpHE  territory  of  Rofeto  produces  olives,  capers,  corn3 
fafTron,   and  cotton.      Good  wine  is  faid  to  be  made 
on  the  hills  to  the  weft,  but  my  hoft  was  not  able  to  pro- 
cure me  any  that  was  palatable.      He  told  me    that  the 

*  All  thefe  particulars  have  been  fince  confirms'  to  me  by  perfons  whom  1 
know  to  be  well  acquainted  with  the  ftate  and  manners  of  the  country. 

mountains 


*S6  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

mountains  abounded  with  very  fine  oak  timber  fit  for  fhip- 
building,  and  that  the  woods  were  well  flocked  with  game, 
which  is  a  great  annoyance  to  the  farmers,  whatever  diver- 
lion  it  may  afford  the  landlord. 

By  the  Roman  law,  every  perfon  was  at  liberty  to 
fifh  and  hunt  on  the  lands  of  another,  unlefs  formally  pro- 
hibited by  the  owner ;  and,  according  to  the  Lombard  infti- 
tutions,  no  penalty  was  incurred  by  trefpafs  without  proof  of 
damage.  In  the  kingdom  of  Naples,  the  Emperor  Frede- 
rick feems  to  be  the  firft  that  forbade  nets  and  fnares,  ex- 
cept when  employed  againft:  bears,  wolves,  and  other  noxi- 
ous animals.  His  paffion  for  the  chafe  di&ated  this  law, 
which  has  been  revived  by  many  of  his  fucceffors.  It  is 
a  doubt  among  the  Neapolitan  lawyers,  what  right 
the  Barons  have  to  an  exclufive  chafe  in  their  manors, 
where  they  cannot  fhew  a  precife  grant  in  their  invefliture, 
or  plead  immemorial  poffeflion ;  and  it  has  been  the  prac- 
tice of  the  courts  to  difcountenance  their  pretentions :  much 
depends  upon  local  cuftom.  The  ufe  of  guns  is  contrary 
to  law,  which  the  crown  difpenfes  with  at  a  regular  price. 
A  licence  for  fowling  in  the  plains  of  Naples  with  bird- 
calls coils  ten  carlines  a  year-  in  the  plains  and  woods, 
twenty-four;  and  fixty,  with  nets,  in  thefe  and  in  the  high 
lands.  At  a  diflance  from  the  capital,  it  is  only  five ;  but 
the  fportfman  is  not  allowed  either  calls  or  nets,  nor  to 
enter  inclofures  and  referved  baronial  chafes,  if  walled  in. 
Overtures    have   been    made    to  adrniniftration    by  feveral 

under- 


JOURNEY    TO     REGGIO.  237 

undertenants  for  the  purchafe  of  a  general  leave  of  (hoot- 
ing ;  but  a  difference  in  the  price  has  prevented  an  agree- 
ment. The  Cacciator  Maggiore  of  the  realm  being  a  great 
Baron,  we  cannot  be  furprifed  if  he  coincide  in  fenti- 
ment  with  his  fellow-nobles,  and,  in  an  ariftocratical 
monarchy,  be  deflrous  of  extending  all  reftrictive  laws ;  fince. 
we  behold,  in  our  land  of  liberal  ideas  and  boated  freedom, 
the  country  gentlemen  eagerly  bent  upon  curtailing  the 
privileges,  and  thwarting  the  inclinations,  of  the  inferior 
clafs  of  citizens. 

Calabria  is  too  hilly  to  admit  of  hunting ;  all  game  is 
brought  down  by  the  gun,  or  taken  in  the  net.  The  beft 
kind  of  fpaniel  is  the  Bracca  focatay  a  ftrong  dog  of  a  black 
or  deep  brown  colour,  with  a  tawny  belly,  and  fpots  over 
the  eyes.  It  is  fo  excellent,  that  the  king  has  taken  parti- 
cular pains  to  increafe  the  breed. 

The  lower  parts  of  the  mountains  abound  with  the  Ornus, 
or  fmall-leaved  flowering  manna  am,  which  grows  fponta- 
neoufly  and  without  any  culture,  except  that  the  woodmen 
cut  down  all  the  ftrong  ftems  that  grow  above  the  thick- 
nefs  of  a  man's  leg.  Towards  the  end  of  July,  the  gather- 
ers of  manna  make  an  horizontal  gam,  inclining  upwards, 
in  the  bole  of  the  tree.  As  the  liquor  never  oozes  out  the 
firfl:  day,  another  cut  is  given  on  the  fecond,  and  then  the 
woodman  fixes  the  ftalk  of  a  maple  leaf  in  the  upper 
wound,  and  the  end  of  the  leaf  in  the  lower  one,  fo  as  to 
form  a  cup  to  receive  the  gum  as  it  ex  tils  from  each  flam, 

P  p  The 


288  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

The  old  man  told  me,  that  vipers  and  martens  were  re- 
markably fond  of  manna.  He  had  himfelf  frequently  fecn 
the  little  quadruped  at  the  tree ;  but  never  the  reptile, 
though  many  of  his  acquaintance  had. —  I  he  tyranny  exer- 
cifed  over  the  peafants,  on  account  of  this  native  production 
of  their  wilderneffes,  ftands  in  the  foremoft  line  of  their 
numberlefs  and  abominable  grievances.  All  manna  bi  longs 
to  the  King,  who  gives  it  in  farm  to  a  fet  of  contractors. 
To  gather  it,  a  certain  number  of  countrymen  are  furnifhed 
by  the  feudatory,  who  receives  five  carlini  for  every  man. 
During  the  feafon,  which  continues  about  a  month,  thefe 
fellows  are  not  allowed  to  abfent  themtelves  a  fingle  day,  or 
undertake  the  leaft  work,  of  any  other  kind,  however  indif- 
penfable  for  the  prefervation  of  their  own  little  private  har- 
veft.  Their  fcanty  wages  are  a  poor  compenlation  for  this 
involuntary  fervice.  Their  greedy  employers  give  them 
only  three  carlines  *  for  every  rotolo  of  manna ;  which 
quantity,  containing  thirty- three  ounces  and  a  third,  is  fold 
for  twenty-four  carlini  and  three  quarters :  if  it  be  in  tubular 
pieces,  the  price  rifes  one-third.  The  peafants  are  punifhed 
with  the  utmofr.  feverity,  if  detected  in  burning,  destroying, 
or  damaging  any  of  thefe  trees,  that  caufe  to  them  fo  much 
vexation  ;  and  are  fent  to  prifon,  if  the  fmalleft  quantity  of 
the  juice  be  found  in  their  houfes.  They  may  eat  as  much 
as  they  pleafe  n  the  woods;  and  moft  of  them  take  this 
phyfic  once  a  year. 

•  In  the  Salernitan  diftrift,  chey  pay  the  gatherers  five  carlini  a  rotolo. 

Some 


JOURNEY     TO     REGGIO.  289 

Some  time  ago  eight  hundred  poor  labourers  of  the  pro- 
vince of  Salerno,   no  longer  able  to  fupport  this  oppreflive 
tafk,  clubbed  two  carlini  a-piece,  and  bribed  a  perfon  of  the 
court  to  prefent  a   memorial  from   them   to  the  King,  at 
Perfano  ;   hut,  whether  their  agent  deceived  them,  or  the 
petition  fhared  the   fate  of  fo  many  other  petitions  in  all 
kingdoms,   no  manner  of  notice  was  taken  of  it ;  and  their 
flavifh  work   returns   every  year,  without  any  profpect  of 
abolition   or  remittance.      Indeed,    throughout   the  realm, 
the  fituation  of  the  huibandmen  is  truly  deplorable ;  every 
thing  is   excifed,    and   the  modes   of  collecting,    wantonly 
cruel    and   pernicious.      All    live   animals    in   Calabria   are 
taxed.     Six  carlini  are  paid   for  an   ox,   four  grains  for  a 
fheep ;  it  is  therefore  no  wonder  if  the  graziers  be  in  indi- 
gence, if  the  cottagers  keep  no  beafr.  of  any  kind,  and  live 
upon  cafual  and  unfubftantial  nutriment,  inftead  of  milk, 
cheefe,  and  other  wholefome  diet,  which  the  rich  pafturage 
of  the  country  ought  to  afford  them  in  as  great  abundance 
as  that  which  the  Flemings  enjoy  in  their  fat  foil. 

Arable  land  here  is  ploughed  four  times :  the  firft  in 
May.  But  the  labour  is  in  general  remifsly  and  languidly 
performed  ;  and,  inftead  of  laying  down  their  fallows  with 
hay-feeds,  clover,  or  any  of  thofe  rich  artificial  gralles 
which  are  fov/n  in  England  to  create  fine  meadows  and 
paftures,  the  Calabrian  farmer  thinks  he  does  his  farm  am- 
ple juftice,  if  he  ceafes  to  plough  it  for  two  or  three  years, 
and   leaves  the  good  grafs,  accidentally  produced  there,   to 

P  p   2  make 


290  JOURNEY     TO    REGGIO. 

make  its  way,  as  well  as  it  can,  through  the  matted  fibres  of 
all  manner  of  rank  weeds.  There  is  nothing  to  encourage 
the  countryman  to  make  any  vigorous  exertions,  or  try 
improvements  in  agriculture  ;  which  require  both  greater 
capital  and  courage  than  he  is  pofTefTed  of.  He  can  forefee 
no  amelioration  in  his  (ituation  of  life,  from  any  efforts  he 
can  make :  and  woful  experience  has  perhaps  taught  him 
to  apprehend,  that  an  increafe  of  adivity  and  produce 
would  only  draw  on  his  moulders  an  additional  weight  of 
taxes  and  oppreilion. 

I  rofe  before  day,  that  I  might  have  leifure  to  examine 
the  fite  of  Sibaris,  and  reach  Corigliano  before  fupper ;  as 
there  was  no  tolerable  lodging  to  be  expected  fliort  of  that 
place. 

We  rode  part  Trebifaccio,  a  very  ill- built  town,  on  a 
hill,  and  within  fight  of  fome  others  of  no  confequence, 
fituated  on  the  right  hand,  upon  little  eminences  prettily 
planted  with  olive  and  almond  trees.  One  of  them  is  called 
Amendolara,  from  the  abundance  of  almonds ;  and  is 
remarkable  for  being  the  birth-place  of  Pomponius  La?tus, 
a  celebrated  critic  and  hiftorian  of  the  fifteenth  century* 
The  component  parts  of  thefe  hills  are  a  calcareous  tophus, 
with  fea-fhells,  and  other  foflile  fubftances.  The  plains 
along  the  fhore  are  very  boggy,  and  interfered  by  a  great 
number  of  fmall  rivulets,  one  of  which  is  ftrongly  impreg- 
nated with  fulphur,  and,  as  I  was  told,  flows  from  fome 
baths  among  the  hills.     The  drier  fpots  produce  very  rich 

crops 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  291 

crops  of  corn.  Near  the  banks  of  the  Racanello,  we  met 
great  droves  of  buffaloes,  belonging  to  the  Duchcfs  of  Caf- 
fano :  I  think  the  number  of  beafts  exceeded  a  thoufand 
Thefc  rank,  wet  paftures  are  very  proper  for  the  breeding 
of  this  fpecies  of  horned  cattle,  which  are  of  a  heavy  yet 
laborious  difpofition,  and  delight  in  marfhes.  During 
the  broiling  heats  of  fummer,  they  lay  themfelves  down  in 
the  water,  and  leaving  only  the  end  of  their  nofes  above  the 
furface,  defy  the  affaults  of  the  myriads  of  infects  that  fvvarm 
in  thefe  low  grounds.  We  repofed,  during  the  middle  of 
the  day,  on  the  ftraw  of  the  great  barn.  Caffano,  a  fief  of 
the  Serra  Aragona  family,  is  an  epifcopal  city,  about  twelve 
miles  from  the  fea :  it  has  mineral  waters,  fulphureous 
baths,  and  a  very  fruitful  territory. 

After  dinner  we  croffed  the  river  Sybaris,  now  the  Cof. 
cile,  and  entered  the  peninfula  formed  by  that  river  and  the 
Crathis,  where  a  few  degraded  fragments  of  aqueducts  and 
tombs  indicate  the  fpot  on  which  flood  the  city  of  Sybaris, 
noted  to  a  proverb  in  ancient  hiftory  for  the  luxury  and 
effeminacy  of  its  inhabitants. 

No  pofition  could  have  been  more  judicioufly  chofen  for 
commerce  or  agriculture,  as  long  as  an  extenfive  population 
and  induflry  kept  the  rive  ^  under  controul.  Irrigation  is, 
in  fo  dry  a  climate,  the  life  of  hufbandry  ;  but  unleis  flrong 
quays  and  embankments  confine  the  waters  to  their  due 
courfe,  and  prevent  their  coming  down  upon  the  country  at 
improper  feafons  and  in  fuperabundant  quantities,  ruin  and 
1  peftiience, 


29a  JOURNEY    TO     REGGIO, 

pefiilence,  inftead  of  riches  and  health,  are  the  neceflary 
confequences.  Attention  to  the  management  of  thefe  two 
large  dreams  enfured  fertility  to  the  lands,  and  deep,  fafe 
channels  for  trading  fleets.  Many  ages,  alas !  have  now 
revolved,  fince  Man  inhabited  thefe  plains  in  fufficient 
numbers  to  fecufe  falubrity.  The  rivers  have  long  rolled 
lawlefs  and  unreftrained  over  thefe  low  defolate  fields,  leav- 
ing as  they  fhrink  back  to  their  beds,  black  pools  and 
(linking  fvvamps  to  poifon  the  whole  region,  and  drive 
mankind  Mill  farther  from  its  ancient  pofTeilions.  Nothing 
in  reality  remains  of  Sybaris,  which  once  gave  law  to  four 
nations,  reckoned  twenty- five  cities  among  its  fubjects,  and 
could  mufter  three  hundred  thoufand  fighting  men.  I  do 
not  think  any  remnants,  now  to  be  feen,  date  fo  far  back  as 
the  old  Sybaritan  republic*. 

Sybaris  was  one  of  the  moft  ancient  of  the  fettlements 
formed  by  the  Greeks  on  the  Italian  fhore.  The  natural 
richnefs  of  its  foil  encouraged  agriculture,  which  produced 
abundance  of  articles  of  commerce  ;  and  the  convenience  of 
the  fituation,  between  two  confiderable  rivers,  naturally  led 
to  a  oreat  exportation. — From  thefe  fources  wealth  flowed 
copioufly  into  the  flate,  and  with  it  brought  fuch  luxury 
and  degeneracy  of  manners,  as  have  excited  the  aflonimment 
and  indignation  of  all  ancient  writers.     Many  anecdotes  are 

*  The  materials  of  the  ruins  being  brick,  argue  Roman  rather  than  Gre- 
cian workmanfhip.  I  never  met  with  bricks,  in  any  undoubted  Greek  ruin, 
throughout  Magna  Gratia  or  Sicily. 

told 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  295 

told  us  of  the  foft  Sybarites ;  fome  fcarcely  credible,  and  all 
tending  to  (hew  how  much  that  people  facrificed  every 
conlideration  to  the  enjoyment  of  the  prefent  moment,  and 
how  eafy  a  conqueft  they  afforded  their  more  needy  and 
warlike  neighbours.  But  Sybaris,  before  its  hour  of  misfor- 
tune, had  numbered  many  of  glory  and  dominion.  It  had 
founded  the  ciry  of  Pseftum  on  the  Tyrrhene  fea  ;  its  armies 
had  been  numerous  and  formidable ;  its  authority  refpe&ed 
over  a  large  range  of  country  ;  and  the  wifdom  of  its  coun- 
cils admired  by  the  furrounding  nations.  The  walls  of  the 
capital  inclofed  a  fpace  of  fix  miles  and  a  half,  and  its  fub- 
urbs  extended  near  feven  miles  along  the  Crathis.  What  a 
noble  light !  what  beauties  this  country  muft  have  difplayed, 
when  the  impetuous  torrents  were  kept  under  command, 
and  only  let  off  cautioufly  and  regularly,  to  convey  frefhnefs 
and  fertility  to  the  well-tilled  thirfty  fields! — -when  the  banks 
of  the  river  were  adorned  with  warehoufes,  wherein  the  mer- 
chant depofited  his  riches ;  and  with  elegant  villas,  and 
perfumed  gardens,  whither  he  retired  to  enjoy  the  fruits  of 
his  industry  ! — when  its  fpacious  plains  teemed  with  har- 
vefh,  that,  according  to  the  teftimony  of  Varro,  repaid  the 
hulbandman  an  hundred  fold,  and  annually  loaded  large 
fleets  of  vefiels  that  crowded  the  mouths  of  its  rivers ! 

After  retracing  all  thefe  circumftances  in  my  mind,  I 
looked  round  me,  and  could  not  help  thinking  myfelf  in  a 
dream,   or  that  the  hiftojrians   muft   have   been  dream; 


* 


whi  • 


294  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

when  they  wrote  of  Sybaris.     Seventy  days,  as  Strabo  fays, 
fufficed  to  deftroy  all  this  grandeur  and  profperity.     Five 
hundred  and  feventy-two  years  before  the  Chriftian  aera,  the 
Crotoniates,  under  their  famous  Athleta  Milo,   defeated  the 
Sybarites  in   a  pitched  battle,    broke  down   the   dams  that 
kept  out  the  Crathis,   and  let  the  furious  ftream  into  the 
town,    where    it   foon   overturned   and  fwept   away  every 
building  of  ufe  or  ornament.     The  inhabitants  were  mafla- 
cred  without  mercy ;   and  the  few  that  efcaped  the  {laugh- 
ter,  and  attempted  to  reftore  their  city,   were  cut  to  pieces 
by  a  colony  of  Athenians,  who  afterwards  removed  to  fome 
diftance,  and  founded  Thurium  *.    The  coins  of  Sybaris  are 
among  the  moft  ancient  known  ;    being  of  the  fort  called 
Incuji,  i.  e.  convex  on  one  fide,  and  concave  on  the  reverfe. 
They  bear  a  Bull,   which  I  take  to  be  an  emblem  of  their 
fubdued  river,  fo  long  their  friend  and  purveyor,   but  in  the 
end  an  instrument  of  their  deftrudion.     The  great  works 
undertaken  to  drive  back  its  waters,  are  probably  exprefTed 
by  the    head    of   the    animal    being    turned    back   on  its 
flioulder  f. 

*  Modern  authors  place  it  at  Terra  Nova,  four  miles  up  the  river ;  but 
Livy  fays  exprefsly  it  was  on  the  fea-fhore. 

-j-  Nummi  Sybaritarum. 
ARG.  I.  Taurus  flans  retroflexo  capite  TM  =  Altera  pars  incufTa. 

2.  Cap.  Palladis=:Taurus  2TBA. 

3.  Taurus  =  Vas  incuffum. 

4.  Taurus--  Quatuor  Glob.  ML 
JER.  1.  Taurus  cap.  refiexo  TM=Incuffus. 

I  have 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  2?5 

I  have  often  wondered  why  the  moft  outrageous  barba- 
rians,  the  moft  blood-thirfty  conquerors,   have  found  more 
favour  at  the  hands   both   of  their  cotemporaries  and  of 
pofterity,    than   the  foft   indolent  Sybarites,   who   feem  to 
have   done  harm   to   nobody,   and  whofe  faults  originated 
in  the  affluent  ftate  of  their  affairs,  and  the  mild  tempera- 
ture of  their  climate,  rather  than  in  any  mifchievous  bent 
of  character.     I  fufpect  this  virulence  of  abufe  fprang,  from 
the  defire  their  enemies,   and  the  partifans  of  thofe  enemies, 
had,  of  giving  a  plaufible  excufe  for  the  cruelty  with  which 
the  Sybarites  were  treated  ;    perhaps   alfo  from  a   fpirit  of 
envy  at  their  enjoyments ;   or  from   the  common  character, 
of  philofophical  declamations.      Thefe  being  the  production 
of  a  fet  of  men   of  great  poverty,    four   tempers,   auftere 
morals,    and    much   polemical   irafcibility,    were  more  fre- 
quently employed   to  lafh  the  indulging  voluptuary,    than 
the  bloody  tyrant  or   ferocious  ravifher ;   efpecially  as  there 
was  more  danger  in  an  attack  upon  the  latter.     Were  the 
cafe   otherwife,    bow   fhould    we   account   for  their   fpleen 
againft   thefe   Epicures  ?  for  what  comparifon  is  there  be- 
tween the  culpability  of  a  wealthy  citizen,  revelling  in  love 
and    wine,    pampered   up   with    high  feafoned    viands    and 
delicious   liquors,    repofing   in   eafy   carriages   and    beds   of 
down ;   and  the  guilt  of  an  exterminating  conqueror,   who 
cmbrues   his  hands   in  the  blood  of  thofe   half- {lumbering 
debauchees,    that   he  may   poffefs    himfclt    of   their   fpoils, 

Q^q  and 


2p(5  [OURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

and  perhaps,  in  time,  add  their  vices  to  his  own  native 
cruelty  ?  Hiftorians,  and  orators  of  all  ages,  have  been 
guilty  of  this  partiality.  For  my  part,  I  cannot  help  feeling 
a  degree  of  pity  for  the  hard  fate  of  the  Sybarites,  to  whom 
we  are  indebted  for  the  difcovery  of  many  mod  ufeful 
pieces  of  chamber  and  kitchen  furniture.  They  appear 
to  have  been  a  people  of  great  tafte,  and  to  have  fet 
the  fafhion,  in  point  of  drefs,  throughout  Greece.  Their 
cooks,  embroiderers,  and  confectioners  were  famous  over 
all  the  polite  world  ;  and  we  may  fuppofe  their  riding- 
mafters  did  not  enjoy  a  lefs  brilliant  reputation,  fince  we 
are  told  of  their  having  taught  their  horfes  to  dance  to  a 
particular  tune.  Alexis  of  Sybaris  paffes  for  being  the 
inventor  of  fables  or  dialogues,  in  which  the  fpeakers 
are  all  rational  beings  ; — the  prototype  of  the  Drama  : 
whereas  iEfop  and  others  had  put  their  morality  into  the 
mouths  of  animals  only. 

After  the  deftrudtion  of  Sybaris,  Thurium  became  a  con- 
siderable ftate  under  the  difcipline  of  Charondas,  who  died 
a  martyr  to  the  fpirit  of  his  own  laws.  Having  fixed  the 
pain  of  death  upon  any  citizen  that  mould  enter  the  fenate- 
houfe  armed,  and  being  reminded  that  in  his  hurry  he  had 
brought  a  fword  with  him  into  the  aflembly,  he  immedi- 
ately plunged  it  into  his  breaft,  and  fealed  his  decree  with 
his  own  blood.  Thurium  flourished  long  even  under  the 
dominion  of  Rome,   till   falling  to   decay,    it  was  judged 

expedient 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  297 

expedient  to  fend  a  colony  thither;    after  which  event  it 
aflumed  the  name  of  Copia*. 

Herodotus,  the  father  of  hiftory,  died  at  Thurium. 
Auguftus  Caefar  was  nicknamed  Thurinus  in  his  youth, 
either  from  his  father's  having  governed  this  province,  or 
from  his  family's  deriving  its  origin  from  hence. 

Suetonius  made  Adrian  a  prefent  of  a  ftatue  of  Auguftus, 
with  this  name  infcribed  on  the  bafe.  Cicero  and  Antony 
both  reproached  him  with  the  lownefs  of  his  origin,  and 
aflerted  that  his  father,  the  firft  of  the  race  who  had 
attained  any  honours  in  the  republic,  was,  in  the  beginning, 
no  better  than  a  money-fcrivener ;  yet  it  is  the  common 
opinion,  that  this  fortunate  heir  of  Julius  Csefar  fprang  from 
a  rich  equeftrian  family  of  Veletri. 

*  Nummi  Thurinorum. 
AUR.    1.  Cap.  Palladis  cum  monftro  marino.  =  Taurus  ©OYPinN. 
ARG.   1.  Cap.  Pall.=Taurus  cornupeta.  pifcis  ©OYPIIIN. 

2.  Cap.  Pallad.  datum,  zr  Taurus  cornup.  vict.  fupervol.  cor.  impon. 

oorpmN. 

3.  Cap.  Pall.  laur.=Taurus  gradiens,  pifcis — QOTPinN. 

4.  Cap.  Pall.  ^  Semi  bos  0. 

iER.  1.  Cap.  Pall.  gal.=Taurus  corn,  pifcis  ©OYPinN. 

2.  Cap.  Apoll.=:Tripus  ©OYPinN. 

3.  Cap.  Apoll.=Lyra  ©OYPmN. 

4.  Cap.  imb.  diad.  =  Homo  nud.  ftans  KAEHN  ©OYPIUN. 

Nummi  Copienfium. 
MR.   1.  Cap.  Pallad.  4  globuli.=Cornucopia2  4  glob.  COniA. 

2.  Cap.  Herculis3  glob.=Cornuc.  3  glob.  L.  CAIO  COPIA. 

3.  Cap.  Mercurii  petafat.=:Cornuc.  3  glob.  Q^  P.  C.     COPIA. 


29g  JOURNEY    TO    REGG  10. 

SECTION      XXXIX. 

TirE  ferried  over  the  Crati,  a  fine  broad  river,  clear  and 
rapid.  The  ancients  were  of  opinion,  that  its  waters 
were  medicinal,  and  had  the  faculty  of  tinging,  of  a  fair  or 
yellow  colour,  the  hair  of  all  who  drank  them  conftantly ; 
and  that  thofe  of  the  Sybaris  turned  it  black.  They  deemed 
it  imprudent  to  drive  cattle  to  drink  at  the  Sybaris,  as  the 
water  was  apt  to  excite  dangerous  fneezings  and  convul- 
sions, being  ftrongly  impregnated  with  mephitic  gas. 

For  the  next  three  miles,  our  evening  ride  was  up  a  mofl 
beautiful  Hoping  hill,   thickly  planted  with  orange,  lemon, 
citron,  olive,  almond,  and  other  fruit-trees,  which,  by  their 
contrafted  (hades  of  green,  and  the  variety  of  their  fize  and 
fhape,  compofed  one  of  the  richeft  profpects  I  ever  beheld, 
even  in  Italy,  that  country  of  enchanting  landfcape.     I  was 
enraptured  with  the  beautiful  fcene,  and  almoft  intoxicated 
with  perfumes.     The  river  Crati  iflues  out  of  a  chafm  in 
the  chain  of  mountains,  forcing  its  boifterous  way  to  the 
Ionian  fea,  which,  though  four  miles  from  the  place  where 
1  flood,   appeared,  in  that  bright  atmofphere,  to  lie  clofe  to 
the  foot  of   the   hill,   juft   edged  with   a   flip  of  verdant 
paflure.      The  little  town  of  Corigliano  rifes  boldly  on  the 
jeak  of  the  richly  clothed  knoll,   like  the  watch-tower  and 
fafeguard  of  all  thefe  natural  treafures.     It  is  a  dutchy  be- 
longing 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  29? 

longing  to  the  Saluzzi,  a  Genoefe  family,  which  has  been 
for  fome  years  paft  annexed  to  the  Seggio  or  ward  of 
Porto  at  Naples.  The  buildings  are  rather  better  than 
thofe  of  the  other  Calabrian  towns  I  had  pafTed  near,  and 
contain  about  eight  thoufand  inhabitants,  who  have  an 
appearance  of  extreme  poverty,  and,  like  Tantalus,  frarve 
in  the  midft  of  plenty,  though  their  lord  has  the  reputation 
of  being  one  of  the  moft  humane,  as  well  as  opulent,  feuda- 
tories in  the  province.  He  has  taken  fome  pains  to  pro- 
mote agriculture,  and  the  breeding  of  horfes  and  cattle;  but 
his  fuccefs  has  hitherto  been  inconiiderable. 

It  was  a  pleafing  and  refrefhing  circumftance  to  meet 
whole  droves  of  mules  and  affes  laden  with  oranges  juft 
plucked.  They  were  carrying  them  to  the  fea-fhore,  to  be 
embarked  in  fmall  boats  for  Taranto  and  Gallipoli.  The 
evening  fea-breeze,  ftrongly  fcented  with  the  grateful  effluvia, 
fanned  me  fo  delightfully,  that  with  reluctance  I  entered  the 
town,  where  I  found  the  inn  a  very  pitiful  one,  and  infected 
with  fuch  difagreeable  odours,  as  formed  a  woeful  contrail: 
with  the  perfumed  air  I  had  lately  breathed.  I  never 
entered  a  Venta  in  Spain  that  was  not  preferable  to  this, 
for  fmell,  cleanlinefs,  and  provifions.  The  route  given  me 
at  Naples  having  made  no  mention  of  Carigliano  as  a  fleep- 
ing-ftage,  I  came,  without  any  letter,  to  the  Duke's  agent, 
and  therefore  was  refufed  a  bed  in  his  manfion.  Upon 
this  denial,  I  took  up  my  lodging  at  the  houfe  of  a  dealer 
in  oil.     The  mailer  was  abfent,  and  we  fcw  nobody  but 

aii 


3oo  JOURNEY    TO    REG  G  I  O. 

an  old  woman  fervant :  the  reft  of  the  family  kept  them- 
felves  locked  up.  I  was  fo  ill  accommodated,  that,  as  foon 
as  it  was  pofllble  next  morning  to  get  ready,  I  rode  down 
to  the  plains  through  a  mod  delightful  country,  which  I 
cannot  pretend  to  defcribe  in  a  manner  to  do  it  juftice. 
On  every  fide,  fruits  and  flowers  rofe  in  clufters,  freshened  by 
the  morning  air ;  the  round  heads  of  the  orange-trees 
glowed  with  the  rays  of  the  fun  that  was  juft  rifing,  and 
darting  his  beams  along  the  furface  of  the  fea :  the  whole 
neighbourhood  was  enlivened  by  crowds  of  men  and  women 
finging  as  they  defcended  the  hill  to  their  daily  labour. 
Every  production  here  is  in  the  higheft  perfection  it  can 
pofTibly  attain  when  unafTifted  by  art.  The  hufbandry  of 
this  province  is  flovenly,  and  the  fkill  in  gardening  very 
fuperficial.  Both  betray  a  want  of  emulation  and  intelli- 
gence. Climate  and  foil  do  more  than  half  the  work,  and 
the  hand  of  difpirited  man  is  fluggifhly  applied  to  the  talk; 
partial  Nature  empties  the  horn  of  plenty  on  his  head,  but 
from  many  fatal  caufes,  her  bounty  contributes  little  to  his 
welfare;  whilft  we  fee,  in  more  northern  and  lefs  happy 
regions,  the  active  enterprifing  labourer  able  to  extort  fa- 
vours from  her,  and,  with  the  leafr.  gawdy  of  her  riches,  raife 
himfelf  to  comfort  and  independence. 

The  road  in  the  plain  is  very  pleafant,  under  the  made 
of  olive-trees  or  evergreen  oaks,  and  through  many  tracks 
of  very  fine  corn-fields ;  but  at  the  end  of  fix  miles,  it  grows 
ftony,  fteep,  and  rough,  up  to  the  very  gates  of  RofTano, 

which 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  301 

which  (lands  in  a  hollow,  furrounded  by  fertile  hills.  There 
is  nothing  in  this  archiepifcopal  city  that  claims  much 
notice;  the  buildings  are  mean,  the  ftreets  vilely  paved 
and  contrived.  The  number  of  inhabitants  does  not  exceed 
fix  thoufand,  who  fubfift  by  the  fale  of  their  oil,  the  prin- 
cipal object  of  their  attention,  though  the  territory  produces 
a  great  deal  of  good  wine  and  corn. 

The  lower  parts  of  the  hills  that  encircle  this  town  are  com- 
pofed  of  Breccia,  or  pebbles,  particles  of  marcafites,  mica,  and 
lead,  united  together  by  means  of  a  red  bolar  earth.  There  is 
no  regularity  in  the  ftrata,  nor  appearance  of  any  gradual  fub- 
fidence;  the  upper  parts  are  a  tophus  full  of  petrified  pectinites, 
and  other  exuvize,  of  which  the  analogous  fhell-fifh  dill  exifts 
in  thefe  feas.  From  the  numerous  fragments  of  lead,  and 
fome  bits  of  filver  ore  picked  up  in  the  torrents,  I  conjecture 
that  the  mountains  to  the  we  ft  ward  contain  mines  of  thofe 
metals ;  though  I  have  been  aiTured  by  a  judicious  mine- 
ralogift  of  this  country,  that  the  accounts  given  by  many 
writers  of  the  Calabrian  mines  are  vague  exaggerations, 
and  that  nothing  has  yet  been  difcovered  but  {lender  veins 
of  ore,  not  likely  to  turn  to  any  account  in  the  working. 

RoiTano  probably  owes  its  origin  to  the  Roman  Emperors, 
who  confidered  it  as  a  poft  equally  valuable  for  drench 
and  convenience  of  traffic.  The  Marfans,  a  family  of 
French  extraction,  polTeiled  this  territory,  with  the  title  of 
Prince,  from  the  time  of  Charles  the  Second  to  that  of 
Alphonfus  the  Second,  when  the  lad  male  heir  was,  by  that 
3  Prince's 


3i>2  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO, 

Prince's  order,  put  to  death  in  Ifchia,  where  he  was  con- 
fined for  treafon*. 

Rofiano  afterwards  belonged  to  Bona,  Queen  of  Poland, 
in  right  of  her  mother  Ifabella,  daughter  to  Alphonfus  the 
Second,  and  at  her  deceafe  returned  to  the  Crown.  It  was 
next  in  the  poffefTion  of  the  Aldobrandini,  from  whom  the 
Borghefi  inherited  it. 

So  late  as  the  fixteenth  century,  the  inhabitants  of  this  city 
{poke  the  Greek  language,  and  followed  the  rite  of  the 
Eaftern  church.  Here  was  formerly  the  moil:  celebrated 
rendezvous  of  the  Bafilian  monks  in  Magna  Grzecia.  Of  that 
body,  the  moft  confpicuous  member  was  Nilus,  a  faint  of  a 
very  extraordinary  character ;  for,  during  his  whole  life, 
he  perfifted  in  refufing  donations  of  lands,  rents,  and  tene- 
ments, though  he  was  the  founder  of  many  monafteries. 
Dominichino,    by    his    admirable    frefco    paintings   in    the 

*  This  illuftrious  Houfe  poffeffed  extenfive  domains  in  almoft  every 
province,  and  made  that  ufe  of  their  power  and  wealth,  which  is  but  too 
common  in  kingdoms  diftra&ed  by  civil  diflentions  and  litigated  titles.  The 
Marians  were  principals  in  all  disturbances,  and  took  an  aclive  part  in  every 
commotion.  Of  thefe  Princes,  the  moft  potent  was  Marino,  long  the  in- 
veterate foe,  but  finally  the  dupe  of  Ferdinand  the  Fird  ;  a  King  who  was 
far  from  being  fcrupulous  in  the  means  he  employed  to  over- reach  his 
enemies,  or  to  rid  himfelf  of  them  when  once  in  his  power.  In  his  treatment 
of  Marino,  the  law  of  retaliation  feems  to  plead  his  excufe,  as  that  giddy 
nobleman  had,  fometime  before  his  ruin,  enticed  the  King  to  a  conference  near 
Teano,  and  there  attempted  to  murder  him.  The  plan  failed  in  the  execu- 
tion, from  the  confirmation  and  cowardice  of  the  confpirators.  Marfan  was 
kept  twenty-five  years  in  prifon-,  and  then,  to  complete  the  extermination  of 
the  whole  rebellious  baronage,  was,  with  many  other  noblemen,  fecretly  exe- 
cuted, his  fortunes  for  ever  loft,  and  his  family  annihilated. 

8  church 


JOURNEY    TO     REGGIO. 

church  of  Grotta  Ferrata,  near  Rome,  has  made  his  legend 
more  familiar  to  the  dilettanti,    than  it  is  to  the  common 
run   of  devotees ;   for  this   faint,   being  a  Greek,   is   in  no 
very    high    repute    in    the    Latin    rubric :    the    numerous 
founders  and  reformers  of  orders  in  fubfequent  times,   have 
engrofTed  to  themfelves  almofi:  the  whole  (lock  of  homage; 
and  I  believe  very  fevs  Romans  ever  heard  his  name,  though 
he  died  in  their  neighbourhood.      The  Greek  monks  were 
the  prefervers  of  books  and  literature  in  the  fouth  of  Italy; 
for    the   Lombards    defpifed    and    negle&ed    the    fciences, 
Charles  the  Bald  invited  learned   men   from  Greece  to  in* 
ftruct   his   fubjecls,    and  revive  a  tafte  for  learning  among 
them.     Thefe  priefts  opened,  in  the  convent  of  St.  Nicholas, 
near  Otranto,  a  famous  fchool,  to  which  great  numbers  of 
fhidents  flocked,  and  received  inftruclion  gratis.     The  mo- 
naftery  even  fupported  thofe  fcholars  that  wanted  the  means 
of  providing  for  their  own  maintenance.      The  aufterity  of 
life  and  profound  learning  of  the  Bafilian  Cenobites,   gained 
them  the  efteem  of  princes  and  people,   and  procured  them 
eftablifhments  in   the  kingdom  to  the  number  cf  five  hun- 
dred.     They  maintained  their  ground  to  the  flxteenth  cen- 
tury, ufing  the  Greek  idiom,  but  the  Latin  rite. 

Pope  John  the  Seventh,  who  was  chofen  in  705,  was  a 
native  of  RolTano.  Theologians  blame  him  for  his  weak- 
nefs,  in  yielding  too  much  to  the  requeils  of  the  Emperor 
and  the  Eaftern  prelates. 

R  r 


S°3 


3©4  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO, 


SECTION     XL. 

T\ /T  Y  ftay  at  RofTano  was  very  fhort ;  as  the  guide  was 
eager  to  fet  out,  left  we  fhould  be  benighted  before 
we  reached  Cariati,  between  which  place  and  RofTano  he 
affured  me  we  fhould  find  very  indifferent  accommodations. 
We  rode  all  the  afternoon  in  a  moft  beautiful  vale,  cultivated 
with  great  neatnefs,  and  abounding  with  pulfe  and  vege- 
tables of  various  forts.  We  pafTed  feveral  rivulets  that  water 
and  fertilize  thefe  fields.  The  Trionto  alone  *  deferves  the 
name  of  river,  though  not  a  navigable  one,  as  fome  geogra- 
phers ftyle  it.  One  of  our  horfes  falling  lame,  we  were  obliged 
to  take  up  our  abode  for  the  night  at  Mirti,  a  fingle  houfe, 
or  Fondaco.  This  inn  was  better  than  I  expected,  and  the 
hofi:  very  civil.  He  earneftly  recommended  to  the  fervants 
to  leave  nothing  out  of  doors,  as  there  was  an  encampment 
of  Zingari,  or  gypfies,  in  the  neighbouring  fields,  who 
would  lay  their  hands  upon  any  part  of  the  baggage  that 
was  not  watched  with  ftricl  attention.  His  caution  led  me 
to  an  enquiry  into  the  ftate  of  this  ftrange  tribe  of  vaga- 
bonds, of  whom  I  had  feen  great  numbers  in  Spain.  The 
refult  of  his  accounts,  combined  with  thofe  I  have  received 
from  other  hands,  is  as  follows : 

*  Anciently  the  Traeis. 

The 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  3oT 

The  gypfies  of  Calabria  do  not  contract  alliances  with 
any  other  clafs  of  inhabitants,  but  marry  among  themfelves. 
It  is  not  pofTlble  to  fay  where  they  refide,  as  they  have  no 
fixed  habitation,  confequently  poflefs  neither  houfe  nor  land; 
but  wherever  they  think  proper  to  make  any  ftay,  pitch 
their  tents.  They  fupport  life  by  the  profits  of  little  handi- 
crafts, but  more  by  thofe  of  fwopping  aftes  and  horfes, 
which  they  will  do  for  the  fmalleft  trifle  to  boot ;  nay,  one 
has  been  known  to  truck  his  afs  with  another  for  a  glafs  of 
wine.  They  generally  work  in  iron,  and  make  trivets, 
knitting-needles,  bodkins,  and  fuch  baubles.  Their  drefs 
is  extremely  fhabby;  they  (have  their  chins,  but  indulge  a 
great  length  of  hair,  which  they  feldom  diflurb  with  either 
comb  or  fciflars.  As  to  their  religion,  it  is  a  fecret  they 
keep  locked  up  in  their  own  breafts.  They  feem  to  have 
no  great  veneration  for  the  Virgin  Mary ;  but  are  fuppofed 
to  believe  in  Chrift.  All  the  proof  we  have  of  their  belief 
depends  upon  appearance,  and  an  occafional  conformity  to  the 
ceremonies  of  the  Roman  Catholic  church  in  marriage,  burials, 
&c.;  but  ifthe  priefts  ffart  any  difficulties,  they  manage  the 
matter  without  their  interference,  and  perform  the  functions 
according  to  their  own  cuftoms ;  which  in  many  points 
refemble  thofe  of  the  heathens.  At  their  weddings  they 
carry  torches,  and  have  paranymphs  to  give  the  bride  away, 
with  many  other  unufual  rites.  It  is  in  reality  almoft  an 
abfurdity  to  talk  of  the  religion  of  a  fet  of  people  vvhofe 
moral  character  is  fo  depraved,   as  to  make  it  evident  they 

R  r   2  believe 


306  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

believe  in  nothing  capable  or  being  a  check,  upon  their 
paflions.  They  are  univerfally  accounted  to  be  pilferers, 
cheats,  faithlefs,  fhamelefs,  and  abandoned  to  all  manner  of 
diflolutenefs.  The  following  anecdote  will  fhew  how  little 
they  are  under  the  control  of  modefty,  or  fear  of  fhame. 
A  gang  of  gvpfies  affembled  at  the  fair  of  MarGco  Nuovo , 
with  an  intention  of  robbing  the  (hops,  for  which  purpofe 
a  proper  number  of  them  were  difperfed  in  the  throng. 
To  draw  off  the  merchants  by  fome  very  extraordinary 
incitement  to  curiofity,  was  the  next  point  to  be  considered ; 
and  with  this  view  they  adopted  an  expedient  that  would 
have  mocked  the  moft  hardened  libertine.  Some  of  their 
men  and  women  went  into  the  adjacent  fields,  and  there 
proceeded  to  fuch  indecent  liberties,  as  foon  brought  moft 
of  the  people  of  the  fair  about  them,  and  left  their  mops  a 
prey  to  the  confederate  thieves. 

Contra&s  and  plighting  of  faith  are  by  them  efteemed 
mere  empty  forms ;  and  whenever  the  breach  promifes  more 
advantage  than  the  obfervance,  they  never  hefitate  a  mo- 
ment. No  cheats  can  be  more  artful  or  impudent.  When 
they  bring  their  affes  to  fa'e,  they  prick  their  moulders  with 
very  fmall  needles  fet  in  a  piece  of  cork,  which  makes  the 
poor  animals  bound  like  deer.  The  unfufpecling  chapman 
thinks  he  buys  the  fleeter!  of  beads,  and  perhaps  finds, 
upon  trial,  that  he  has  purchafed  a  dull,  reftive,  foundered 
grizel.  The  gypfles  have  a  way  of  throwing  down  the 
mules  and  affes  they  wifh  to  buy,  and  thereby  depreciating 
2  their 


JOURNEY    TO     REGGIO.  307 

their  merit*.  They  tell  fortunes,  and  play  juggling  tricks, 
as  they  do  in  all  other  countries  where  they  are  tolerated. 
In  1560,  they  were  banimed  the  kingdom  as  thieves,  cheats, 
and  fpies  for  the  Turks.  In  1569,  and  1585,  the  order 
was  renewed,  but  not  being  enforced,  had  little  effect. 

A  gypfy  being  brought  to  trial  for  larceny,  declared, 
That  his  law  allowed  him  to  take  from  others  as  much  every 
day  as  fufliced  for  his  maintenance.  Thefe  people  make 
ufe  of  two  languages,  one  Calabrian,  with  a  foreign  accent 
and  pronunciation;  the  other,  a  peculiar  one  of  their  own; 
which,  in  found,  feems  to  bear  a  great  affinity  to  the  Oriental 
tongues,  and  is  fpoken  when  they  have  fecrets  to  impart  to 
each  other. 

One  of  the  mofi:  intelligent  of  the  crew  being  afked, 
Why  his  nation  was  a  wandering  one?  replied,  That  they 
cannot  remain  in  a  place  above  a  few  days  without  being 
over-run  with  lice.  This  propenfity  to  breed  vermin  pro- 
ceeds from  their  exceflive  filthinefs.  They  fleep  like  dogs 
in  a  kennel,  huddled  altogether,  men.  women,  and  children, 
taking  up  no  more  room  afleep  than  if  they  were  dead  and 
buried,  which  crowding  muO;  caufe  a  heat  and  fermentation 
extremely  favourable  to  the  multiplication  of  naufeous 
infects. 

On  the  ioth  of  May  we  travelled  along  the  more, 
having  high  land  on  our  right.     The  numberlefs   beds  of 

*  When  they  travel  through  a  country  where  herds  of  horfes  and  afFes  art 
fuffered  to  wander  without  a  keeper,  they  Ileal  them,  by  calling  over  their 
aecks  a  ball  of  lead  fattened  to  a  thong. 

torrents,. 


3o8  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

torrents,  which  we  were  obliged  to  crofs,  made  the  road 
very  unpleafant.  The  firft  place  we  came  to  was  Cariati, 
a  principality  belonging  to  the  Spinelli,  one  of  the  mod 
opulent  feudatory  families,  divided  into  feveral  branches, 
and  poffeffed  of  very  capital  fiefs  in  Calabria  *.  This  city 
is  fmall,  and  thinly  inhabited,,  on  account  of  the  weaknefs 
of  its  fituation,  and  dread  of  the  Turks,  who,  before  a 
treaty  was  concluded  with  the  Porte,  were  continually 
ravaging  this  coaft.  Its  cathedral  is  a  very  heavy  Gothic 
ftruciure,  dedicated  to  St.  Peter,  and  the  only  parim.  The 
furrounding  hills  are  gay,  and  pleafingly  covered  with  fruit- 
trees ;  the  woods  behind  them  produce  manna  of  excellent 
quality  ;  much  Turkey  wheat  is  cultivated  in  the  lands  be- 
low, and  extenfive  paftures  afford  luxuriant  and  wholefome 
fuilenance  to  a  great  dock  of  oxen,  buffaloes,  fheep,  goats, 
and  fwine.  In  Calabria,  all  the  oxen  are  white,  large,  and 
long-horned,  except  thofe  of  the  red  breed,  which  have 
been  introduced  from  Sicily  by  the  Princes  of  Cariati  and 
Geraci.  I  never  law  buffaloes  of  any  colour  but  black; 
and  moft  of  the  goats,  fheep,  and  hogs  are  of  that  hue. 
The  laft  fpecies  have  no  hair,   but  are  as  fleek  in  the  hide 

*  This  family  came  from  Somma,  and  is  not  mentioned  in  the  chronicles 
before  the  year  1224.  The  man  who  laid  the  foundation  of  this  wealth  was 
John  Baptift  Spinelli,  confervator  of  the  royal  patrimony  under  Ferdinand 
the  Catholic,  to  whom  he  recommended  himfelf  by  the  vigilance  with  which 
he  watched  the  motions  of  the  Viceroy  Gonialvo  de  Cordova.  Ferdinand,  on 
his  arrival  at  Naples,  diftinguillied  John  very  much,  and  gave,  or  enabled  him 
to  purchafe,  Cariati  and  other  confiderable  eftates,  fince  augmented  by  the 
prudence  of  his  defcendants. 

8  as 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  309 

as  an  elephant.  This  country  abounds  with  game  of  the 
leffer  feathered  tribes,  fuch  as  doves,  quails,  nd  other 
birds  of  paflage.  Dormice  are  here  accounted  delicate 
game,  as  they  were  in  ancient  Rome,  where  they  were 
kept  in  warrens,  and  fatted  for  the  tables  of  the  mod  refined 
epicures.  The  hair  of  thefe  animals  is  here  more  generally 
grey  than  ruflet.  They  are  fmoked  out  of  their  nefts  in 
hollow  trees,  and  caught  with  fharp  hooks.  Their  fkins 
make  very  fine  leather. — The  fea  of  Cariati  abounds  with 
fifh.  At  a  place  called  Terra  Vecchia,  eaft  of  the  city,  arc 
the  flight  remains  of  Paternum. 

After  dinner,  we  travelled  four  miles  through  arable  lands 
of  a  ftrong  clayey  foil,  where  the  courfe  of  hufbandry  is,  to 
take  a  crop  of  wheat,  and  then  to  leave  the  field  fallow 
two  years  for  pafturage.  We  afterwards  croffed  hilly  olive 
grounds,  covered  with  loofe  ftones,  under  which  I  found  fome 
ftrata  of  compact  grindftone,  and  lumps  of  whetftone,  of  a 
good  quality.  At  the  foot  of  thefe  hills  runs  the  Aquanile, 
which,  both  from  name  and  pofition,  I  take  to  be  the 
Hylias,  anciently  the  limit  between  Sybaris  and  Croton. 
On  its  banks  the  Crotoniates  gained  the  victory  which  made 
them  matters  o£  the  Sybaritan  territory.  They  were  led  to 
battle  by  Milo  the  wreftler,  equipped  like  Hercules,  with 
club  and  lion's  fkin,  and  crowned  with  the  prize-wreaths 
he  had  won  at  the  Olympic  games. 

My   intention   was    to  have   flept  at  the   town  of  Ciro? 
which  feems  to  ftand  on  the  fite  of  Crimifla,  a  city  founded 

by 


3io  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

by  Philoctetes,  the  friend,  and,  to  his  coft,  the  heir  of 
Hercules.  But  being  allured  that  I  fhould  meet  with 
neither  accommodations  nor  provifions  at  that  place,  I  pre- 
ferred remaining  below  in  the  plain,  at  a  (ingle  houfe, 
where  my  apartment  was  none  of  the  beft  ;  but  I  had  feen 
worfe  ;  and  the  civility  of  the  people  made  amends  for 
inconveniences.  Ciro  is  a  very  poor  place,  containing 
about  fix  thoufand  inhabitants;  it  belongs  to  Spinelli, 
Prince  of  Tarfia,  who  monopolizes  all  the  fiik  made  by  his 
vaflals.  The  territory  produces  alfo  very  fine  oil  and  corn, 
execrable  wine,  but  good  water.  This  town,  though  by  no 
means  in  an  unhealthy  fituation,  affords  a  livelihood  to  fix 
doctors  in  phyfic.  The  evening  was  mild  and  ftill ;  I  fpent 
it  in  a  folitary  walk  along  the  beach  of  Cape  Alice,  the  molt 
eaftem  point  of  the  Calabrian  coaft,  except  the  Lacinian 
or  Crotonian  promontory.  It  was  famous  for  a  temple  of 
Apollo  Halyus,  of  which  I  could  not  difcover  the  fmalleft 
veftige  ;  the  waves  of  the  fea  having  covered,  or  the  hand 
of  man  removed,  every  flone  of  it.  During  fupper,  the 
keeper  of  the  neighbouring  watch-tower  came  to  pay  me  a 
vifit.  A  glafs  or  two  of  wine  reftored  that  liberty  to  his 
tongue  which  refpect  had  retrained  ;  and,  after  endeavour- 
ing to  imprefs  me  with  a  high  idea  or  his  courage,  and  the 
havoc  he  would  make  with  his  fingle  gun  in  an  army  of 
Algerines,  he  entertained  me  with  feveral  anecdotes  or 
his  brother-warders ;  one  of  which  I  noted  for  its  Angula- 
rity.    Part  of  the  crew  of  a  Barbary  veffel  had  landed  near 

a  mari- 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  3„ 

a  maritime  tower,  with  an  intent  of  plundering  a  village  on 
the  coaft ;    when   their  progrefs  was   impeded,   and   their 
fury    diverted,     by    the    watchman's    {hooting   their    Reys 
through  the  head  from  the  battlements.     The  Infidels  flew 
to  the  foot  of  the  tower,  and  attacked  it  with  great  fury. 
In  fpite  of  the  fire  and  other  efforts  of  the  defender,   they 
had  almoft  reached  the  top ;   when  the  poor  Calabrian, 
finding  his  ammunition  gone,  and  his  cafe  defperate,   be- 
thought  himfelf  of  a    fingular    engine  of  defence.       He 
fnatched  up  fome  bee-hives  that  ftood  on  the  platform,  and 
running  round  the  parapet,    fhook  out   the   angry   infects 
upon  the  afTailants ;   who,   flung  to  the  quick,   and  terrified 
with  this  incomprehenfible,   miraculous  attack,   were  glad 
to  relinquifh  the  fcalado,   and  plunge   into  the   water,   to 
deliver  themfelves  from   their  cruel  antagonifts.      It  is  not 
every  warder  that  can  ftrike  out  fuch  refources  in  general- 
fhip ;    and  without  them   his  poft  is  fcarce  tenable ;    for 
the  towers  are  but  indifferently  conftrucled,  or  provided  for 
refinance :   they  are  fquare  and  bulky,   and  not  very  lofty. 
The  door  is  about  half-way  up,  with  a  ladder,    which  is 
taken  in  at  night  j  over  this  is  a  terrace,  on  which  is  placed 
a  cannon,  more  for  the  purpofe  of  alarming  the  coaft,  than 
finking  the  boats  of  an  enemy.     I  was  told  at  Rome,  by  an 
infpe&or  of  thefe  forts,  that,  in  the  courfe  of  his  vilitation, 
he  came  once  to  a  tower,   where  the  guard,    in  anfwer  to 
the  ufual  queries  concerning  his  fkill  and  care  of  the  artil- 
lery, led  him  into  the  room  under  the  battery,  and  pointing 

S  £  to 


312  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

to  a  packthread  fteeped  in  brimftone,  that  hung  through  a 
crevice  in  the  cieling  from  the  touch-hole  of  the  cannon, 
informed  him,  that  he  had  found  out  that  to  be  the  fafeft 
and  raoft  expeditious  method  of  difcharging  the  piece. 


SECTION     XLI. 

flp  H  E  next  day  we  arrived  at  Cotrone  for  dinner ; 
having  baited  in  the  plain  below  Strongoli,  a  city  on 
a  rugged  mountain,  fuppofed  to  be  the  ancient  Petelia*. 
Philocletes  firft  fettled  a  colony  at  Petelia,  which  afterwards 
became  the  capital  of  the  Lucanians,  and  made  a  confpi- 
cuous  figure,  in  the  fecond  Punic  war,  by  its  obftinate 
refiftance  to  Hannibal.  Marcellus,  the  illuftrious  rival  of 
that  hero,  perimed  in  a  fkirmifh  near  its  walls.  Strongoli 
belongs  to  a  Pignatelli,  who  keeps  a  large  ftud  of  horfes  in 
the  wafle  lands  near  the  fea.  The  Calabrian  horfes  are 
pretty,  fpirited  and  brilliant  in  their  motions,  but  in  general 

*  Nummi  Petelinorum. 
iER.  i.  Cap.  barb.  galeat.=Vi6toria  gradiens  d.  coron.  nETHAINIiN". 

2.  Cap.  imb.  rad.=Tripus.  T.  nETHAINI2N. 

3.  Cap.  mul.  velat.=Jupiter  fulminans  nETHAINXlN. 

4.  Cap.  Jovis=Jup.  fulm.  tripus.  nETHAINHN. 

5.  Cap.  Jovis.  =  Fulmen.  'F.  nETHAINHN. 

6.  Cap.  Apoll.=Figura  mulieb.   grad.   d.   ftyl.   nETHAINflN.  duo 

glob. 

7.  Cap.  Herculis=Clava  nETHAINHN. 

8.  Cap.  mul.=Canis.  nETHAINXiN. 

low, 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  313 

low,  and  feldom  free  from  vice.    I  know  by  experience  that 
they  can  go  through   fevere  fatigue,   having  rode  a  fmall 
one,  in  hot  weather,  five  fucceflive  days,  at  the  rate  of  fifty 
miles  a  day.     This  breed  is  not  attended  to  with  all  the 
care  it  deferves  j  for  the  prohibition  of  exportation  renders 
the  owners   much  more  indifferent  about  the  perfection  of 
their  horfes   than  they  would   be,   if  there  were  a  demand 
from  other  countries,    and  a   brifk  fale  allowed,   to  excite 
their  emulation.     Another  caufe  of  neglect  lies  in  the  ex- 
cefllve  badnefs   of  the  roads  in  this  mountainous  country, 
where  mules,    being  much  more  hardy  and  enduring,    are 
fitter  for  fervice,  and  confequently  more  marketable.    They 
carry  upwards  of  three  cantara,    through  the  moft  difficult, 
dangerous     ways     imaginable,     without    ftumbling. — The 
Barons   have   no   exclufive    feudal    right    to    breed    horfes, 
though  fome  of  them  arrogate  to  themfelves  a  monopoly  by 
violence.      We  palled  the  Nieto*  in  a  boat.      The  air  is 
unwholefome  on  the  banks  of  this  river,   which  divides  the 
two  Calabrias ;   but  the  herbage  muft  be  incomparable,   if  I 
may  judge  from  the  delicacy  and  fweetnefs  of  the  milk  and 
cream  cheefes,  for  which  this  canton  is  renowned. 

Cotrone  has  fucceeded  to  the  Greek  city  of  Croton,  but 
does  not  cover  the  fame  extent  of  ground.  I  was  allured 
that  in  fummer  this  climate  is  unhealthy  ;  a  misfortune  that 
cannot  proceed    from    local   caufes ;    for   the  falubrity   of 

*  Anciently  Necethus. 

S  f  2  Croton 


Sr4  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

Croton  was  famous  to  a  proverb  among  the  ancients.  The 
Efaro,  which  flowed  through  the  very  centre  of  the  old 
town,  now  runs  in  a  fhallow  ftony  bed,  at  a  considerable 
diftance  north  of  the  gates. 

Great  works  have  been  conftructed,  in  the  prefent  reign, 
to  form  a  harbour  for  this  town.  Time  will  fhew  whether 
the  exertions  of  miniftry  have  been  directed  by  fkill  and 
judgment ;  and  whether  the  obftacles,  that  heretofore  pre- 
vented vefTels  from  riding  in  fafety  before  Cotrone,  have 
been  fufficiently  removed  and  guarded  againft  for  the  future. 
The  entrance  of  the  new  haven  is  open  to  the  north  and 
north-eaft  winds ;  points  of  the  compafs  from  which  very 
boifterous  blafts  rufh  down  the  Adriatic,  acrofs  the  Taren- 
tine  gulph,  though  perhaps  lefs  tremendous  than  the  Sci- 
locco  and  foutherly  winds.  As  the  hills  and  projection  of 
the  capes  protect  Cotrone  from  florins  on  the  fouth  quarter, 
I  am  furprifed  the  engineers  did  not  direct  the  mouth  of 
the  haven  more  eafterly  :  the  entrance  would  have  been 
eafier,  and  the  veflels  lefs  difturbed  while  in  port.  How- 
ever, as  I  pretend  to  no  technical  knowledge  in  the 
engineering  line,  but  fpeak  from  rude  guefs  and  curfbry 
obfervation,  I  am  willing  to  believe  there  were  fufficient 
reafons  for  proceeding  on  the  plan  that  has  been  adopted. 
Perhaps  the  weight  of  water  rolled  up  the  gulph  might 
create  a  dangerous  fwell,  or  fands  might  in  time  accumulate 
at  the  pafTage,  if  the  harbour  lay  open  to  the  eaft.  But  it 
is  the    opinion    of  many   fenfible   obfervers,    that   greater 

6  advan- 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  jj5 

advantages  might  have  been  procured  for  the  money,   and 
that  very  great  additional  expence  is  requifite  to  complete 
the   undertaking.     I  mould   no  doubt  have  judged  more 
favourably  of  an  enterprize,  which,  like  the  hand  of  a  Cre- 
ator, forms  a  port,   where  the  ancient  mariners  defpaired  of 
procuring  fecure  anchorage, — had  I  not  been  informed  that 
the  venerable  fragments   of  the  old  city,   its   fuburbs  and 
temples,   had   been  dilapidated,   to  furnifh  materials  for  the 
piers  and  buttrefTes.     This  was  a  very  trifling  faving,   in  fo 
expenfive  a  concern  ;  and  appears  a  piece  of  extraordinary 
barbarifm  in  minifters,   that  plumed  themfelves  upon  their 
excavations  at  Herculaneum,  and  the  care  with  which  they 
preferved  the  precious  monuments  of  antiquity  *.      Cotrone 
is  fortified  with  fingle  walls,  and  a  cattle  erected  by  Charles 
the  Fifth.     Its  private  buildings  are  poor  and  fordid  ;   the 
ftreets   difmal  and  narrow :    ill-humour,   mifery,   and   de- 
fpondency    were   ftrongly  depicted   in   the   countenance  of 
every  inhabitant  I  met.      There  is  very  little   buifle ;   little 
commercial  hurry  ;   cheefe  and  corn  are  the  principal  com- 
modities.    For  the  ftowage   of  corn,   there  are  ranges   of 
granaries  in  the  fuburbs ;  and  the  annual  export  is  about 
two   hundred   thoufand   tomoti.      The   cheefe  is    tolerably 
good ;  but  has  a  great   deal  cf  that  hot,   acrid   tafte,   fo 
common  to  all  cheefe  made  with  p-oats  milk.      The  wine 

CD 

*  The  harbour  is  capable  of  containing  a  confiderable  number  of  merchant 
fhips,  but  none  above  the  tonnage  of  a  Polacca.  The  mouth  of  the  port  is 
marked  by  two  light-houfes. 

is 


3i6  JOURNEY     TO    REGGIO. 

is  not  unpleafant,  and  appears  fufceptible  of  improvement, 
by  better  management  in  the  making  and  keeping. 

This  being  the   actual   ftate  of  the   town,   let  us  caft  a 
view   back    upon   its   fituation   in   thofe   ages,    when   four 
republics,   founded   by  Grecian  refugees,   gave  the  law  to 
the  fhores  of  the  Tarentine,  Ionian,  and  part  of  the  Tyrrhe- 
nian feas ;   when  neither  the  Lucanians  nor  Bruttians  had 
affembled    together    in    fufficient    numbers,     amidft    their 
mountainous  recedes,   to  difturb  or  oppofe  the  dominion  of 
thefe  colonies.      I    fhall    form    no    conjectures   concerning 
Hercules  or  Myfcellus,   the  fuppofed  founders  of  Croton ; 
but   take   for   granted   that  it  was  occupied  by  navigators 
from  Achaia  •   and   that   their  pofterity  rofe  by  virtue  and 
valour  to  the  higheft  eminence  of  fame  among  the  fons  of 
Greece,      But  this  valour,  this  virtue,  appear  to  have  been 
called  forth  by  the  wholefome  precepts  and  fevere  inftitutes 
of   the    Pythagorean   fchool.  ■     Pythagoras,    after    his    Jong 
peregrinations  in  fearch  of  knowledge,  fixed  his  refidence 
in  this  place,   which  fome  authors   think   his   native  one, 
at  leaft  that  of  his  parents,  fuppoflng  him  to  have  been 
born  in  the  ifle  of  Samos,   and  not  at  fome  town  of  that 
name  in  Italy.     This  incomparable   fage  fpent  the  latter 
part  of  his  life  in  training  up  difciples  to  the  rigid  exercife 
of  fublime  and  moral  virtue,   and   inftructing  the  Crotoni- 
ates  in  the   true  arts  of  government,    fuch  as  alone   can 
infure  happinefs,  glory,  and  independence. 

Under 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  317 

Under  the  influence  of  this  philofophy,  the  Crotoniates 
inured  their  bodies  to  frugality  and  bardmips,  and  their 
minds  to  felf-denial  and  patriotic  difintereftednefs.  Their 
virtues  were  the  admiration  of  Greece,  where  it  was  a 
current  proverb,  that  the  laft  of  the  Crotoniates  was  the 
firft,  of  the  Greeks.  In  one  Olympiad,  feven  of  the  victors 
in  the  games  were  citizens  of  Croton  ;  and  the  name  of 
Milo  is  almofi:  as  famous  as  that  of  Hercules.  The  vigour 
of  the  men,  and  beauty  of  the  women,  were  afcribcd  to  the 
climate,  which  was  believed  to  be  endowed  with  qualities 
peculiarly  favourable  to  the  human  fyftem.  Their  phyficians 
were  in  high  repute;  and  among  thefe,  Alcmeon  and  De- 
mocides  rendered  themfelves  raoft  confpicuous.  Alcmeon 
was  the  firft  who  dared  to  amputate  a  limb,  in  order  to 
fave  the  life  of  a  patient ;  and  alfo  the  firft  writer  who 
thought  of  inculcating  moral  precepts  under  the  amufing 
cloak  of  apologues.  This  invention  is  more  commonly 
attributed  to  iEfop,  as  he  was  remarkably  ingenious  in  this 
fpecies  of  compofition.  Democides  was  famous  for  his 
attachment  to  his  native  foil.  Though  careffed  and  en- 
riched by  the  King  of  Perfia,  whofe  queen  he  had  fnatched 
from  the  jaws  of  death,  he  abandoned  wealth  and  honours, 
and  by  ftratagem  efcaped  to  the  humble  comforts  of  a 
private  life  at  Croton. — The  Pythagoreans  are  faid  to  have 
difcovered  that  difpofition  of  the  folar  fyftem,  which,  with 
fome  modifications,  has  been  revived  by  Copernicus,  and  is 
now  univerfally  received,  as  being  moft  agreeable  to  nature 

and 


3i8  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

and  experiment.  Theano,  the  wife  of  Pythagoras,  an  d 
many  other  women,  emulated  the  virtues  of  their  huf- 
bands  *. 

In  thofe  fortunate  days  the  (late  of  Croton  was  moft 
flourifhing.  Its  walls  inclofed  a  circumference  of  twelve 
miles.  Of  all  the  colonies  fent  out  from  Greece,  this  alone 
furnifhed  fuccour  to  the  mother-country  when  invaded  by 
the  Perfians.  By  its  avenging  arms  the  Sybarites  were 
punifhed  for  their  fhameful  degeneracy;  but  viclory  proved 
fatal  to  the  conquerors,  for  riches,  and  all  their  pernicious 
attendants,  insinuated  themfelves  into  Croton,  and  foon  con- 

*  Nummi  Crotonorum. 
AUR.  i.  Cap.  Mul.= Hercules  fedens  aquam  verf.  KPOTX2NIATAN. 
ARG.   i.  Tripus  9E>o.     IncufTus. 

2.  Idem  cum  ave. 

3.  Tripus  <?I>o.  avis.=Aquila  capite  reverfo. 

4.  Facies  plena  diad.  cum  monili.=Hercules  fed.  fup.  exuvias  leon. 

d.  vas.  fupra  arcus  clava  &  pharetra  KPOTONIATAN. 

5.  Fac.  pi.    diad.  cum   mon.  —  Hercules  te&us  pelle   leon.   aquam 

fundens  ex  vafe  in  tripodem — clava  KPOTON.     OS. 

6.  Cap.  Apollinis  diad.— Hercules  ftrang.  leon. 

7.  Cap.  Apoll.  laur.  KPOTnNlATAN.zzCivicas  murata.  fupra  fulmen 

in  muris  victoria  et  eques. 

8.  Aquila  fulm.  inf.=Tripus,  cornucop.  KPO. 

9.  Tripus.  II.  KPOTONIATAN. — Aquila  volans  ung.  palma;  ramum 

tern. 

10.  Saspia.=Tripus  cum  ave  <?E>o. 

11.  Cap.  Apoll. nLyra. 

12.  Avis=Taurus  <? — v.  ftella  cochlea. 
MR.   1.  Herculis  cap.  KPO.=Tripus  qy. 

2.  Cap.  Jovis.=3  lunae  et  ftellas. 

3.  Cap.  Cereris.=Tres  lunse  KPO. 

4.  Cap.  imb.=3  lurue  KPO. 

taminated 


JOURNEY    TO    REG  G  10.  319 

taminated  the  purity  of  its  principles.  Indeed,  the  very 
conftitution  of  human  nature  militates  againfl:  any  long 
continuance  in  fuch  rigid  practices  of  virtue;  and  therefore  it 
is  no  wonder  if  the  Crotoniates  fell  by  degrees  into  the  irre- 
gularities they  once  abhorred.  Not  long  after,  the  Locrians, 
who  were  lefs  corrupted,  defeated  them  on  the  banks  of  the 
Sagra,  and  reduced  the  republic  to  diftrefs  and  penury. 
This  reftored  the  remaining  Crotoniates  to  their  priftine 
vigour  of  mind,  and  enabled  them  to  make  a  brave,  though 
unfuccefsful  refiftance,  when  attacked  by  Dionyiius  of  Syra- 
cufe.  They  fuffered  much  in  the  war  with  Pyrrhus,  and, 
by  repeated  misfortunes,  decreafed  in  ftrength  and  numbers, 
from  age  to  age,  down  to  that  of  Hannibal*  when  they 
could  not  mufter  twenty  thoufand  inhabitants.  This  fmall 
population  being  incapable  of  manning  the  extenfive  works 
erected  in  the  days  of  profperity,  Croton  was  taken  by  the 
Carthaginians,  and  its  citizens  tranfported  to  Locri;  The 
Romans  fent  a  colony  hither  two  hundred  years  before 
Chrift.  In  the  Gothic  war,  this  city  rendered  itfelf  conspicuous 
by  its  fidelity  to  Juftinian,  and  Totila  befieged  it  long  in 
vain.  In  one  of  the  campaigns,  during  the  war  between 
Charles  of  Anjou  and  Frederick  of  Aragon,  the  latter  not 
only  drove  his  rival  out  of  Sicily,  but  purfued  his  advantages 
into  Calabria,  where  his  fortunate  admiral,  Roger  Lauria, 
obtained  a  complete  victory  over  the  Provencal  party.  The 
next  ftep  taken  by  the  conqueror  was  to  inveft  Cotrone, 
which  made  no  long  defence,  but  fent  out  commifli oners 

T  t  to 


32o  JOURNEY    TO    REG  GIO. 

to  propofe  a  capitulation.  During  the  negociation,  the 
Sicilians,  taking  advantage  of  the  fecurity  and  negligence  of 
the  befieged,  entered  the  city  by  furprife,  and  plundered  it 
without  mercy. 4  The  admiral  iniifted  upon  reftitution  being 
made ;  but  Frederick  could  not  prevail  upon  himfelf  to  re- 
linquish a  prize  already  won,  and  by  this  refufal  to  da 
juftice  to  Lauria's  warranty,  provoked  him  to  join  the  An- 
gevines,  and  become  a  moft  formidable  opponent. 

A  branch  of  the  Houfe  of  Rufo  was  long  in  pofleflion  of 
the  fief  of  Cotrone.  Henrietta,  their  heirefs,  was  deflined, 
by  Alphonfus  the  Firft,  to  be  the  wife  of  his  favourite,  Inigo 
de  Avalos;  but  fhe  fell  in  love  with,  and  married  Antony 
Centeglia,  who  had  been  fent  by  Alphonfus  to  fettle  the 
preliminaries  of  the  match.  Centeglia  foon  felt  the  weight 
of  royal  vengeance ;  was  befieged  in  Catanzaro,  and 
obliged  to  furrender  at  difcretion.  The  King  confined  both 
him  and  his  wife  in  Naples,  where  they  fpent  many  years 
in  poverty  and  obfcurity.  On  the  demife  of  Alphonfus,. 
Antony  efcaped  to  Calabria,  and  excited  that  province  to 
revolt.  The  beginning  of  his  enterprize  was  fuccefsful;  but 
upon  his  being  worfted  and  taken  prifoner,  all  the  hopes  of 
his  party  vanished,  and  his  family  fank  again  into  mifery. 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  32I 


SECTION     XLII. 

TN  order  to  vary  the   fcene,  I  hired  a  boat  to  carry  mc 
round  the  capes,  while  my  horfes*  proceeded  the  morteft 
way  to  Catanzaro.     By  this  plan  I  had  an  opportunity  of 
feeing  fome  places  that  lie  out  of  the  direct  route  by  land. 

We  foon  doubled  Cape  Nau,    and  darting   through  a 
(hallow  bay  full  of  {helves  and  iilets,  landed  at  Cape  delle 
Colonne,   known  in  ancient  geography  by  the  name  of  the 
Lacinian  Promontory,   which,   with  the  promontory  of  Sa~ 
lentum,  or  St.  Maria  di  Leuca,   forms  the  mouth   of  the 
Tarentine  Gulf,  feventy  miles  wide.     The  land  is  very  high, 
rocks,  coarfe  granite,  and  breccia.     On  a  point  impending 
over  the  waves,  are  fome  feattered  {tones,  and  a  few  regular 
courfes  ol  building,  faid  to  be  the  ruins  of  the  fchool  of  Pytha- 
goras, and  of  the  temple  of  Juno  Lacinia.     About  forty  years 
ago,  two  columns  of  this  edifice  were  {till  ftanding.      One  has 
long  been  fallen,  the  other  ftill  remains  ftanding  upon  a 
foundation  of  large  {tones  cut  into  facets,  and  ferves  as  a 
landmark  for  navigators.      Its  order  differs  little  from  that 
of  the  columns  at  Metapontum ;   but  fome   bricks,  ]which 
appear  intermixed  with  the  {tone-work,   create  a  doubt  in 
my  mind,  whether  thefe  fragments  appertain  to  any  build- 
ing fo  ancient  as  theCrotonian  republic.     It  may  have  been 
rebuilt  by  the  Romans,  and  the  old  columns  made  to  ferve 

T  t  2  again. 


322  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

again.     This  conjecture  acquires  weight  by  what  hiftory  tells 
us  of  the  Cenfor  Fulvius  Flaccus  having  ftripped  the  roof  of 
its   marble  flags,   to  cover  a   temple  he   had  dedicated  in 
Rome.     The  covering  was  fent  back  by  order  of  the  fenate; 
but  from  a  want  of  flaters  able  to  replace  it  properly,  the 
edifice  remained  unroofed,   and  was  probably  deftroyed  by 
the  weather.     Reidefel  fuppofes  thefe  ruins  to  have  been 
part  of  Croton ;   but  that  is  not  pofiible,  as  they  are  feven 
miles  from-  the   Efaro,   which  we  know  divided  the  town 
into  two  parts.      In  my  opinion,   they  are  more  likely  to  be 
remains  of  the  college  of  Juno's  priefts,  or  of  the  ftalls  for 
her   numerous   herds  and  flocks,  that  ranged  undifturbed 
over  the  lawns  and  under  the  groves.     Few  places  of  wor- 
fhip  drew  fo  many  pilgrims  as  this  temple.     At  ftated  fea- 
fons,  the  roads  of  Italy  and  Greece  were  thronged  with 
parties  of  devotees  marching,  with  expiatory  prefents  and 
votive  offerings,   towards  the  fhrine  of  the  goddefs.     Such 
a  conflux  of  facrifices  fwelled  the  holy  treafure  to  an  in- 
credible value.     Among  heaps  of  ornaments  of  the  mod 
precious  materials,  was  diftinguifhed  a  column  of  folid  gold. 
In  a  word,   this  wealth  was  the  prototype  of  the  golden 
wainfcot,  mafllve  lamps,  and  diamond  crowns  of  Loreto. 
But  Loreto  has  been  hitherto  more  fortunate,  or  better  pro- 
tected than  Lacinium,   which  frequently  excited  the  cupi- 
dity, and  became  the  prey,  of  facrilegious  conquerors.    This 
temple  was  the  fcene  of  a  barbarous  adion  committed  by 
Hannibal,  if  we  are  to  believe  the  Romans,   who,   by  de- 

ftroying 


Of 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  323 

ftroying  all  records  of  Punic  hiftory,  have  taken  care  to 
prevent  our  bringing  any  proof  againft  their  afiertions. 
They  write,  that  Hannibal,  finding  himfelf  under  the  necef- 
fity  of  obeying  the  fummons  of  the  Carthaginian  fenate,  affem- 
bled  all  his  Italian  allies  in  this  temple,  and  there  caufed  fuch 
as  refufed  to  embark  with  him  for  Carthage,  to  be  maffacred 
by  his  African  foldiers. 

The  view  from  this  headland  is  very  extenfive.  I  re- 
turned to  my  boat,  and  kept  under  the  more  till  we  had 
paffed  three  other  capes,  when  night  coming  on,  we  were 
obliged  to  run  into  a  cove  on  the  fouth-eaft  fide  of  Capo 
Rizzuto,  the  northern  head  of  the  Squillacean  gulf,  as  Capo 
di  Stilo  is  the  fouthern  one.  My  boatmen  were  very 
anxious  to  draw  the  felucca  on  fhore,  and  fhelter  themfelvcs 
from  danger  under  the  gun  of  a  watch-tower.  They  were 
much  afraid  left  any  Barbary  rovers  mould  be  lurking 
among  the  iflands  and  creeks;  though,  from  all  their 
accounts,  I  could  not  find  that  they  were  often  troubled 
with  their  vifits.  The  crew  fet  up  an  awning,  and  pre- 
pared fupper,  perfectly  fatisfied  with  the  fafeguard  of  the 
tower,  though  ten  Algerines  would  have  been  an  overmatch 
for  us  and  our  protectors.  I  took  a  moon-light  walk  by 
the  fea-fide,  and  fpent  an  hour  very  agreeably.  When 
I  returned  to  my  company,  they  expoftulated  with  me 
on  the  rafhnefs  of  my  venturing  out  alone ;  and  feein^  me 
laugh  at  their  apprehenfions,  nodded  at  each  other,  and 
agreed  together,  that  I  could  not  be  fo  bold,  unlefs  I  had  a 

4-  charm 


524  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

charm  about  me.  This  remark  excited  my  curiofity,  and 
upon  enquiry  I  learned  that  in  Calabria  there  are  certain 
old  women  who  fabricate  talifmans  on  bits  of  parchment, 
which  they  fell  for  eighteen  ducats  to  the  bravos  that  can 
afford  to  lay  out  fo  much  money.  This  charm  is  fuppofed 
to  render  the  wearer  invulnerable;  and  as  a  preliminary 
fecurity,  a  piflol  is  fired  at  it :  but  care  is  taken  to  qualify 
the  charge  fo  as  to  drive  the  ball  but  feebly  againft,  the  mark. 
The  purchafer,  confident  of  fafety,  lays  the  amulet  upon  his 
breaft,  attacks  his  adverfaries  without  fear,  and  generally,  by 
his  daring  appearance,  ftrikes  them  with  a  panic*. 

Before  day-break  we  pumed  off  our  boat,  and  rowed  over 
to  an  iiland  marked  in  every  map  as  the  habitation  of 
Calypfo.     Things  muft  have  changed  wonderfully  fince  the 

*  I  have  fince  procured  one  of  thefe  pieces  of  witchcraft  from  a  prieft,  who 
had  obliged  a  penitent  of  his  to  give  it  up,  as  belonging  to  wicked  practices 
ftriftly  forbidden  by  the  church. 

It  was  couched  exattly  in  thefe  terms: 

+ 
+  Anna  Pariote 

Incanto  la  tua  perfona  ardente  da  parte  di  Chrifto 

innipotente  da  parte  del  ciorno  di  natale  per 

le  tre  mefie  chefi  difino  in  cielo  fi  fcriffino 

4-lunedi  fanto+marte  difanto+mercodifanto-}- 
Ciovedifanto+Vennardifanto+Sabatofanto  da  tutte 
Magarie  fia  yuardata  cirieleifon  Chriftoeleifon 
corpo  di  Chrifto  falvate+Aglio+taglio  et  faglio 

-f  lega  mane  piede  e  core  a  chi  ofFennare  mi  uoli 
Sangue  di  Chrifto  commoglia  metu-f-. 

time 


JOURNEY    TO     REGGI  a  225 

time  of  UlyfTes,  or  the  goddefs  have  daily  worked  a  miracle 
in  providing  food,  without  which  fupematural  aflillance  the 
fhipwrecked  hero  had  died  of  hunger :   at  prefent  this  rock 
would  fcarcely  maintain  a  fheep.    Some  thickets  of  lentifcus, 
and  other  brufliwood,   are  the  only  reprefentatives  of  the 
tall  trees  which  the  Ithican  chief  felled  for  the  conflruclion 
of  his  veflel.     Scholiafls   have  fixed  Calypfo's  ifle  at  Cape 
Rizzuto,    becaufe    it    is   directly   eafl   of   Corfu,    whither 
Ulyfles  fleered  with  a  weft  wind  'y  but  unlefs  Homer  talked 
of  imaginary  land,  hidden  from  mankind,  as  the  etymology 
of  the  words  Ortygia  and  Calypfo  imply,  or,  from  the  fcarcity 
of  geographical  helps  in  that  age,    was  ignorant  of  the  true 
diftances  of  places,  it  is  difficult  to  reconcile  matters  to  proba- 
bility, I  wont  fay  truth,  becaufe  a  poet  is  not  fuppofed  to 
be  flrictly  bound  to  it.     Corcyra  or  Corfu,  the  land  of  the 
Phsacians,  which  is  not  a  night's  fail  from  Ithica,   is  fcarce 
one  hundred  miles  diftant  from  Italy,  and  therefore  could 
not   require  feventeen  days  failing  with  a  profperous  gale. 
Homer,  in  the  opinion  of  Strabo  and  the  mod  enlightened 
critics,  had  travelled  much,  and  did  not  raife  his  epic  build- 
ing merely  upon  the  fhadowy  bafts  of  fiction ; — the  voyages  of 
UlyfTes    had  been  handed  down  by  tradition,  and  to  fome 
well-known  (lories  he  added  poetical  embellifhments.      Per- 
haps  the  fea  has  covered  large  tracts  of  land  near  this  cape, 
and  the  rocky  iflets  we  ftill  perceive  above  the  waters,  may 
be  no  more  than  the  tops  of  the  hills  that  rofe  upon  the 
beautiful  plains  where  Calypfo  and  her  nymphs  were  faid  to 

8  wander. 


3-6  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

wander.  When,  on  confidering  Homer's  narrative  with 
attention,  I  find  Ulyfles  is  driven  back  into  Charybdis  by  a 
fouth  wind,  gets  again  upon  the  wreck,  and  congratulates 
himfelf  upon  his  palling  unnoticed  under  the  jaws  of  Scylla, 
which  was  north  of  the  whirlpool,  I  think  it  evident  he  was 
not  carried  into  the  Ionian,  but  the  Mediterranean  fea,  or, 
perhaps  the  ocean,  where  he  was  hurried  away  before  the 
wind  during  nine  days  and  nine  nights,  till  he  reached  the 
ifland  of  Ortygia.  The  Ealeares  in  one,  or  the  Fortunate 
liles  in  the  other,  afforded  room  enough  for  the  goddefs's 
eftablifhment ;  and  from  thence  he  might  very  well  be 
feventeen  days  before  he  faw  Corfu  rife  like  a  buckler  on 
the  fea. 

I  found  no  charms  on  the  ifland  powerful  enough  to 
detain  me ;  and  therefore,  after  a  breakfaft  on  prawns  and 
limpets,  caught  and  dreffed  by  my  fleerfman,  I  put  off, 
and  doubling  the  cape,  entered  the  Gulph  of  Squilacce. 
The  rocks  are  compofed  of  pebbles,  fand,  and  fhells,  united 
together. 


SECTION     XLIII. 

np HE  fky  was  overcaft,  and  threatened  rain,  which  made 
us  keep  clofe  to  the  more.     We  rowed  rcund  the  little 
harbour  of  Caftelle,  probably  the  place  formerly  called  Caftra 
Hannibalis,from  which  that  able,  but  ill-feconded  general,  em- 
barked 


JOURNEY    TO    R  EG  GIO.  327 

barked  for  Carthage*.  As  we  failed  along,  the  man  at  the 
helm  pointed  out  to  me  federal  inland  towns  of  little  note, 
but  beautiful  objects  from  the  fea.  Cutro  was  one,  re- 
markable for  having  given  birth  to  Galeni,  a  renegado, 
who,  in  the  fixteenth  century,  rofe  to  great  honour  at  the 
Ottoman  Porte,  and,  by  the  name  of  Ulucciali  BalTa.,  com- 
manded the  Turkifh  fleet,  was  Viceroy  of  Algiers  and 
Tunis,  and  became  one  of  the  greateft  fcourges  of  Chriften- 
dom.  In  the  height  of  his  profperity,  he  was  defirous  of 
beftowing  a  part  of  his  wealth  upon  his  aged  mother,  who 
lived  in  poverty  at  Cutro;  but  that  fpirited  old  woman  re- 
fufed  to  accept  of  the  fmalleft  token  from  a  fon,  who  had 
forfaken  the  religion  of  his  fathers,  and  profefTed  himfelf  the 
fworn  enemy  of  ChrifHanity. 

Belcaftro  was  another  town  in  view,  diftinguimed  by  the 
birth  of  Saint  Thomas  di  Aquino,  whofe  father  was  Lord  of 
this  city.  The  good  Calabrefe  think  the  ftain  of  having 
produced  ten  thoufand  Uluccialis,  perfectly  wiped  away  by 
the  glory  of  having  one  fuch  Doctor  of  the  Church  for  their 
countryman  f. 

Cropani 

*  D'Anville  places  ic  near  Squillace,  from  a  perfuafion  that  Pliny  and  Soli- 
mis  fix  Hannibal's  camp  in  the  narrowed  fpot  of  the  whole  iftmus ;  but  it 
appears  to  me  they  only  meant,  that  the  port  from  which  he  took  his  depar- 
ture was  fituated  in  the  Gulph  of  Squillace,  between  which  and  that  of  St. 
Eufemia,  Italy  is  not  quite  twenty  miles  broad.  The  name  of  a  tower  called 
Torre  d'Annibale,  a  little  to  the  welt  of  this  bay,  is  fome  proof  that  d'Anville 
miltook.  the  fenleof  the  above-mentioned  authors. 

f  This  Dominican  faint  was  full  as  good  a  gentleman  as  the  founder,  St. 
Dominick  de  Gufman.     The  Houfe  of  Aquino  derived  its  pedigree  from  the 

U  u  Lombard 


;2$  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

Cropani  was  alfo  in  fight,  once  a  flou  riming  town,  but 
reduced  by  earthquakes  to  a  ruinous  village.  The  country 
about  it,  is  a  gay  mixture  of  bean  and  corn  fields,  vineyards, 
and  tufts  of  walnut  and  mulberry  trees,  a  rich  variety  very 
unufual  in  a  marine  profpect.  Several  rivers,  emptying  their 
waters  into  the  fea,  make  bold  breaks  in  the  hills,  and 
produce  charming  accidents  of  light  and  fhadow. 

On  the  banks  of  the  Litrello,  one  of  the  many  ftreams 
we  faw,  is  a  little  village  called  Malifano,  fixed  upon  by 
the  Spaniards  for  the  birth-place  of  a  man  who,  in  1600, 
gave  the  Court  of  Madrid  a  great  deal  of  uneafinefs.  Par- 
rino,  one  of  the  molt  fervile  flatterers  among  the  court- 
writers,  gives  us,  in  his  Theatre  of  Viceroys,  the  following 
curious  account  of  this  extraordinary  perfonage :  "  This 
"  year  there  came  to  Naples  a  famous  impoftor,  who  pre- 
lt  tended  to  be  the  King  of  Portugal.  This  man  was  a 
"  Calabrefe  of  Malifano,  a  village  near  Taverna,  by  name 
4<  Marco  Tullio  Cotifone,  who  went  to  Padua  in  a  pil- 
<c  grim's  drefs,  and  faid  he  was  Don  Sebaftian.  He  was  feized 
•*  by  order  of  the  ftate,  fent  to  Venice,  and  formally  inter- 
"  rogated.  To  the  queftions  put  to  him  he  made  anfwer, 
"  That  the  ftory  of  his  death  had  been  vamped  up  by  the 
"  Spaniards;  that  he  had  efcaped  from  the  battle,  and  tra- 

Lombard  Princes  of  Capua,  one  of  whom,  in  the  tenth  century,  granted  the 
county  of  Aquino  in  Terra  di  Lavoro,  to  his  ion  Adinolf.  When  it  became 
again  cuftomary  to  diftinguifh  families  by  furnames,  the  descendants  of 
Adinolf  afiumed  that  of  their  earldom. 

"  veiled 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  323 

"  veiled  to  Jerufalenij  to  fulfil  a  vow  he  had  made  in  the 
"  moment  of  danger.  As  a  proof  of  the  identity  of  his 
"  perfon,  befides  the  likenefs  of  features,  fimilarity  of  fta- 
"  ture,  and  Portuguefe  language,  which  he  fpoke  in  perfec- 
"  tion,  he  (hewed  one  arm  longer  than  the  other,  a 
"  remarkable  and  uncommon  defect  that  had  been  ob- 
"  ferved  in  the  King.  What  moft  aftonifhed  the  fenate, 
tc  was  his  quicknefs  of  repartee,  judgment  in  political 
"  matters,  dignity  of  behaviour,  princely  carriage,  and 
"  the  minute  account  he  gave  of  the  private  propofals, 
"  anfwers,  and  negociations  between  that  Prince  and  the 
"  Venetian  Ambafladors  at  Lifbon.  However,  as  it  was 
<c  well  known  Don  Sebaftian  could  not  be  alive,  fince  King 
"  Philip  had  redeemed  his  body  of  the  Moors  for  an  hun- 
"  dred  thoufand  ducats,  the  Senate  fufpected  this  man  to 
"  be,  what  in  reality  he  was,  an  infamous  forcerer;  and 
**  therefore,  after  two  years  imprifonment,  baniflied  him 
il  out  of  their  territories.  The  Portuguefe  refiding  in 
*'  Venice  clothed  him,  and  forwarded  him  to  Florence  in 
"  the  difguife  of  a  friar;  but  there  the  Duke,  who  was 
<{  attached  to  the  Spanifh  intereft,  caufed  him  to  be  feizcd, 
"  and  fent  in  chains  to  Naples.  When  he  was  brought 
"  into  the  prefence  of  the  Viceroy  Count  de  Lcmos,  who, 
"  on  account  of  the  heat,  was  ftanding  without  his  hat,  he 
"  haughtily  bid  him  be  covered.  Being  afked  by  the 
"  Viceroy,  What  authority  he  had  for  giving  him  fuch  an 
'*  order  ?  he  replied,   That  although  the  Count  could  not 

U  u  2  "  have 


33o  JOUR  NT  Y    TO    REGGIO. 

"  have  forgotten  the  bufinefs  which  had  carried  him  twice 
"  to  Lifbon  in  the  time  of  the  late  King  Philip,  he  would 
"  refrefh  his  memory  with  fome  particulars  of  the   affair. 
"  The  minute  detail  he  gave  came  fo  near  to  truth,   that 
"  the  Viceroy  was  f truck  with  amazement;    but,  upon  re- 
u  collecting  himfelf,    declined  all   farther  conference,   and 
"  ordered  him  to  prifon.      He  remained  there  clofely  con- 
"  fined  till  the  arrival  of  the  next  Viceroy,   when  he  was 
t(  brought  to  trial.      His  low  birth  was  proved  upon  him, 
"  the  fraud  difcovered,  and  the  impoftor  condemned  to  the' 
"  gallics.     While  on  board,  he  gained  the  love  and  refpect 
c<  of  all  his  fellow- Haves,    and   was    conftantly  treated   by 
<c  them  as  if  he  had  really  been  the  perfon  he  wimed  to 
"  pafs  for.      He  was  afterwards  fent  to  the  fleet  of  Sicily, 
*c  and   there  examined   by  the   Duke  of  Medina  Sidonia, 
"  who  had  vifited  Lifbon  during  the  reign  of  Don  Sebaftian. 
il   The   prifoner   addreffed   the   Duke   as  an  inferior,    and' 
"  aiked  him  what  became  of  an  African  boy  he  had  given 
"  him  twenty-two  years  ago?     Medina  was  confounded; 
"  and   burfting   into   tears,    retired    from   the  galley,    very 
"  much  undecided  what   to  think  of  the  bufinefs.     The 
'c  court,    at   laft,    thought    it    fafeft  to  rid   themfelves  of 
"  him;   and  he  was  accordingly  put  to  death  on  the  ifland 
"   Delle  Femine,  near  Palermo.     After  he  had  been  ftretch- 
"  ed  on  the  rack,  where  he  confeffed  that  he  had  carried 
<{  on  the  cheat  by  the  afliftance  of  the  Devil ;  and,  in  fact, 
«  all  thofe  marks  which  had  rendered  his  lies  {o  plaufible^ 
2  "  difappeareel 


JOURNEY     TO.  REG  G  10.  331 

u  disappeared  from  his  body  the  moment  he  was  dead/' 
Giannone,  who  wrote  under  the  patronage  of  an  Auft.ian 
prince,  affects  to  treat  this  affair  as  a  foolifh  trick ;  but 
many  authors  give  more  credit  to  the  Slave's  (lory.  Par- 
•rino's  abfurd  recourfe  to  magic  and  diabolical  illufion,  is 
rather  an  argument  in  favour  of  this  unhappy  man's  pre- 
tenfions ;  for  ii  the  court  of  Spain  could  have  devifed  better 
means  cf  refuting  his  claim,  it  would  certainly  have  em- 
ployed them. 

It  was  fo  late  before  we  reached  the  place  fixed  upon  (ot 
our  landing,  that  I  preferred  Sleeping  in  the  boat,  to  walk- 
ing Six  miles  up  to  Catanzaro,  in  the  dark,  without  3 
certainty  of  finding  lodgings.  A  (e\v  hours,  next  morning, 
"fu Sliced  to  examine  every  remarkable  object  in  this  capital. 
of  Nether  Calabria. 

Catanzaro  was  built  in  963,  by  order  of  the  Emperor 
Nicephorus  Phocas,  as  a  pofl:  of  ftrength  againft  the  Sara- 
cens. Its  Situation  on  an  eminence,  in  the  pafs  between 
the  mountains  and  fea,  fcems  judicioufly  chofen  for  the 
purpofe  of  repelling  thofc  Infidels,  who,  from  Africa  or 
Sicily,  were  wont  to  make  good  their  landing  at  Reggio. 
Increafe  of  inhabitants  and  of  Size  caufed  it  to  be  deemed  a 
proper  reSidence  for  the  officers  who  compofe  the  provin- 
cial tribunal;  and,,  in  »593,  it  arrived  at  the  dignity  of 
capital,  formerly  the  right  of  Reggio.  At  prefent,  Catan- 
zaro contains  twelve  thoufand  inhabitants,  who  live  by  the 
law,  and  the  fale  of  corn,  filk,  and  oil  ;   of  the  laft  they 

export. 


OO' 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

export  annually  about  ten  thoufand  falme.     The  water  of 
this  place  has  an   unpleafant  tafte,    and  a  great  deal  of 
earthy  fediment :  the  wine  is   very  rough.     The  college  of 
the  late  Jefuits  is  a   handfome  building,   and  porTeffes  a 
good  ftatue  of  St.   Ignatius,   by  Fonfeca ;  and  a  very  fine 
picture,    reprefenting  St.    Bruno   diftributing   bread   to  the 
poor.     The  firfl  feudal  inveftiture  of  Catanzaro,  was  from 
King  Roger,  to  his  fon-in-law  Hugh  de  Molines,  Earl  of 
Molife.     The  next,  from  the  firft  Charles  to  Peter  RufTo, 
whofe    family   was  in   pofTeffion  down   to   the  Aragonian 
reigns,  when  their  eftates  went  to  Centeglia,  and  by  him 
.were  forfeited. — Chaifes  can  go  no  farther  fouth  than  this 
ftage  ;   and  indeed  I    do   not  comprehend   how   they   can 
penetrate  fo  far.     From  hence  to  Reggio,  the  generality  of 
travellers  are  conveyed  in  litters,   by  a  route  which  crofles 
the  country,    and   runs   along   the   fhore  o(  the   Mediter- 
ranean. 

In  the  afternoon,  I  rode  ten  miles  to  Squillacce,  through 
a  level,  well- cultivated  country,  abounding  in  corn,  pulfe, 
maize,  mulberries,  and  olives.  The  wages  of  a  labourer 
are  fifteen  grana  per  diem ;  the  foil,  a  fertile  loam,  full  of 
broken  {hells.  My  guide  led  me,  with  an  air  of  triumph, 
to  admire  what  he  called  a  Temple  of  the  old  Saints  of 
Calabria.  Upon  infpe&ion,  it  proved  to  be  an  edifice 
of  Norman  or  Angevine  times,  with  fquare  towers  at  the 
corners. 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  333 


SECTION     XLIV. 

Q  QJU ILLACCE  is  built  on  the  verge  of  a  rocky 
mountain,  Hoping  to  the  eaft,  about  three  miles  from 
the  fea.  I  do  not  know  why  Virgil  gives  this  city  the 
epithet  of  Navtfragum^  "  Breaker  of  Ships  ;"  as  there  are 
no  hidden  or  apparent  dangers  attending  the  approach  of 
vefiels.  It  is  impoffible  this  exact  poet  could  be  fo  carelefs, 
as  to  confound  the  attributes  of  the  capacious  bay  of 
Scyllacaeum,  with  the  narrow  pafs  of  Scylla  in  the  Faro  of 
Medina.  Perhaps  thofe  who  explain  the  epithet  by  a  tra- 
dition, that  the  firft  habitations  of  the  place  were  built  with 
fragments  of  the  (hip  of  Ulyffes,  may  have  ftumbled  upon 
a  method  of  clearing  up  the  difficulty. 

In  forming  the  body  of  Grecian  commonwealths  on  the 
Italian  mores,  Athens  furnifhed  emigrants  for  Scyllacaeum  5 
but  this  fettlement  never  made  any  rlgure  in  the  confede- 
racy *.  Rome  fent  a  colony  hither.  In  the  year  982,  the 
Emperor  Otho  the  Second  was  defeated  under  its  walls,  by 
the  forces  of  the  Greeks ;  who,  from  this  victory,  conceived 
delufive  hopes  of  compelling  Italy  once  more  to  refume 
their  yoke.  Montfort  obtained  this  lordfhip  in  fee  from 
Charles  of  Anjou  ;  but  in  the  next  reign  it  was  given  to 
the  Marfans.     This  powerful  houfe  being  overturned  by  the 

*  Num.  Scyll. — JER.  1.  Cap.  Merc.  *=Prora  navis  SKTAAATinN. 

Aragonefe, 
3 


.3S4  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

Aragonefe,  the  fief  was  beftowed  upon  that  of  Borgia,  and 
is  now  veiled  in  the  Marquis  Gregori,  who,  from  being  a 
commiffioner  of  the  victualing-office  at  Meflina,  rofe  to  be 
Prime  Minifter  of  Naples,  and  afterwards  of  Spain.  Though 
he  knew  how' to  fecure  the  partiality  of  his  fovereign,  he 
■was  not  able  to  conciliate  the  affections  of  the  nation.  A 
revolt  in  Madrid  drove  him  out  of  the  Spanifh  territories ; 
and  he  has  ever  fince  reiided  at  Venice,  as  Ambaffador  from 
•the  Court  of  Spain.  The  Neapolitans  attribute  many  per- 
nicious meafures  to  his  counfel,  and  deteft  him  as  the  caufe 
of  their  heavieft  griefs  and  oppreflions.  We  muff  wait  for 
his  death,  and  the  fubfiding  of  party-anger  (the  recentia 
odia  of  Tacitus),  before  we  decide  upon  his  criminality. 

Squillacce  prides  itfelf  on  having  given  birth  to  Caflio- 
-dorus,  a  ftatefman  of  great  abilities;  and,  considering  the 
times  he  lived  in,  a  very  refpeclable  author;  beloved  and 
honoured  by  Theodoric,  and  other  Gothic  monarchs.  After 
•palling  through  many  high  cflices  in  the  ftate,  he  fixed 
upon  his  native  city  for  the  retreat  of  his  old  age  ;  and,  in 
compliance  with  the  then  reigning  fafhion,  took  the  habit 
of  a  monk,  and  fpent  the  lad  years  of  his  liie  in  a  cloifter. 
In  his  letters  to  Maximus,  he  has  left  us  many  tokens  of 
his  attachment  to  Squillacce ;  and  enlarges,  with  feeling  and 
triumph,  on  its  beauties  and  advantages.  I  walked  to  the 
mouth  of  the  river  Alleii,  where  this  patrienn  had  made  a 
refervoir,  or  riihery,  into  which,  by  means  of  a  canal,  he 
introduced  the   lea-water.     But   I   could    find   no  diftindl 

traces 


c       ft;       « 

^3  ^  *V 
t  1  *1  si 

C  ^  ^  -C  "«5  "*■' 

■v      N      j-     ">    ^'* 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

traces  of  any  fuch  work,  which  probably  has  been  filled  up 
by  floods,  or  eaten  away  by  the  darning  of  the  waves, 
during  fo  long  a  period  as  one  thoufand  two  hundred 
years. 

In  the   evening,    I   was   difturbed    by   a  violent  noife  ; 
which,    upon    enquiry,    1   found   was    cccafioned    by   the 
Marquis's  bailiff  kicking  furioufly  at  the  door  of  the  neigh- 
bouring houfe.     This  is  the  ufual  method  of  giving  the  lafr. 
fummons,  without  any  farther  hope  of  mercy,  to  a  debtor 
or  tenant  that  refufes   to  pay,  and  fhuts  himfelf  up  in  his 
houfe  for  fafety.     If  the  defaulter  be  a  friend,  and  indul- 
gence intended  in   the  profecution,   the  officer  ftrikes  the 
door  with  his  hand  only.      In  any  fray,  if  one  of  the  com- 
batants run   away  and  lock  himfelf  up,  and  his  adverfary 
beat  for  entrance  with  his  feet,   it  is  underftood  that  he  is 
incenfed  beyond  meafure,   and   means  to  give  no  quarter : 
even  children,   in   their  little  broils,  obferve  the  fame  dif- 
tinc"tion.     This  explains  Horace's  meaning*,  when  he  fiys, 
that  Death  beats  with  impartial   foot  the  doors  of  palaces 
and  of  cottages  :    he  thereby  implies,  that  he  is  inexorably 
bent   on   exacting  the   debt  of  nature,  and  not,  as   fome 
commentators   fuppofe,    that   he   makes    ufe   of   the   foot, 
merely  becaufe  his  hands  are  employed  in  holding  the  fcythe 
and  hour-glafs. 

Other    allufions    in    that    Poet    may    be    elucidated    by 
reference   to   cuftorns    flill   in    force   throughout   Calabria, 

o 

*  Pallida  mors  asquo  pulfat  pede  paupcrum  tabernas 
Regumque  turres. 

X  x  His 


335 


^6  TOURNEY    TO    REGG  10. 


CO 


His  account  of  the  hardy  education  and  filial  obedience  of 
the  Roman  youth*,  in  former  times,  is  ftill  exa£t  with 
refpecl:  to  the  young  Calabrian  peafant.  After  hoeing  the 
ground  all  day,  with  no  better  fare  than  bread  and  water, 
feafoned  with  a  clove  of  garlic,  an  onion,  or  a  few  dried 
olives,  he  does  not  prefume  to  prefent  himfelf  before  his 
mother,  without  a  faggot  of  lentifcus,  or  other  wood, 
which  he  throws  down  at  the  door,  ere  he  offers  to  pafs  the 
threfhold.  A  wife  adminiftration,  under  an  ambitious 
monarch,  might  train  up  this  race  to  be  once  more  the 
conquerors  of  nations.  Patience  under  penury,  hardfhip, 
and  hunger, — fymmetry  and  ftrength  of  limb,  and  an 
ardent,  fierce  fpirit,  ftill  exift  in  the  mountains  of  the 
kingdom  ;  but  it  would  require  a  very  fortunate  combina- 
tion of  circumftances,  with  great  judgment  and  refolution, 
to  bring  thefe  qualities  properly  into  adtion. 

Horace's  animated  defcription  of  a  mother  longing  for 
the  return  of  her  fon  f,  may  ftill  be  applied  to  the  Cala- 
brian matrons.     If  the  feluccas  do  not  appear  at  the  ufual 

*  Rufticorum  mafcula  militum 

Proles,  Sabellis  do&a  ligonibus 
Verfare  glebas,  et  fevers 
Matris  ad  arbitrium  recifos 
Portare  fuftes. 

■f  Ut  mater  juvenem,  quern  Notus  invido 
Flatu  Carpathii  trans  maris  jequora 
Cun&antem  fpatio  longius  annuo 

Dulci  ditlinet  a  domo, 
Votis  omnibus  hunc  et  precibus  vocat, 
Curvo  nee  faciem  littore  demovct.— — — • 


term 


JOURNEY    TO    REG  G  10.  337 

'term  of  their  annual  voyage,  the  mothers  and  wives  of  the 
failors  offer  up  incefiant  vows  and  prayers,  call  upon  the 
beloved  perfon  by  name,  and  remain  at  their  windows, 
with  eyes  fixed  on  the  Cape  which  the  bark  is  to  double. 
The  inftant  a  boat  is  feen  coming  round  the  Point,  the 
whole  town  refounds  with  joyful  cries  of  a  Barca,  Barca  !'* 
The  boys  ring  the  bells,  and,  as  foon  as  they  can  diftin- 
guifh  what  felucca  it  is,  run  to  the  relations,  to  claim 
beverage  for  the  good  news. 

Dionylius  of  Syracufe,  in  hopes  of  difuniting  the  confe- 
derates of  Magna  Grsecia,  attempted  to  build  a  wall  or 
rampire  acrofs  the  ifthmus ;  but  troubles  in  Sicily  called 
him  away  before  he  could  complete  the  work. 

We  paffed  below  Stellati,  a  town  of  one  thoufand  two 
hundred  fouls,  on  a  hill  compofed  of  pebbles  and  mineral 
particles,  glued  together  by  a  vifcous  earth  : — it  contains 
fome  fine  fpecimens  of  marcafites.  As  we  advanced  fouth- 
ward,  the  country  fell  off  in  beauty,  and  the  foil  in  rich- 
nefs,  from  a  mellow  loam  to  a  poor  blue  clay.  The  cotton 
fields  have  not  the  wholefome  appearance  of  thofe  farther 
north.  The  landfcape,  however,  revives  near  the  banks  of 
the  Calipari  or  Eloris,  where  Dionyfius  defeated  the  allied 
Greeks.  We  flept  at  Monaflerace,  a  poor  village  on  an 
eminence.  The  road  to  it  was  good,  except  near  the 
torrents,  which,  in  great  numbers,  roll  down  from  the 
mountains,  and  tear  the  plain  to  pieces.  The  defolate 
cafpect    of    the    country     may    be    afcribed    at    leaft    as 

X  x  2  much 


338  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

much  to  the  fcarcity  of  cultivators,  as  to  the  badnefs  of  the 

foil. 

On  the  feventeenth,  we  came  to  Gerace,  through  a  very 
unpleafant  tract  of  land  along  the  coaft.  A  bare,  ugly- 
ridge  of  hills  clofes  in  the  plain  on  the  weft,  and  frequently 
comes  quite  down  to  the  beach.  We  croffed  innumerable 
ftreams,  the  banks  of  which  were  no  doubt  marked,  in 
ancient  times,  by  many  a  bloody  encounter  between  Greeks 
and  barbarians,  or  between  the  different  Grecian  ftates, 
who  were  continually  undermining  their  common  fabric  by 
intefline  diffentions.  It  is  now  very  difficult  to  afcertain 
the  precife  pofition  of  ancient  rivers  and  towns ;  but  it 
misfit  certainly  be  accomplished  with  more  accuracy  than 
has  yet  been  done  by  any  geographer  whatever. 

We  left  Stilo  on  our  right,  remarkable  for  a  rich  convent 
of  Carthufians ;  an  Order  which,  in  its  very  infancy,  ftruck 
a  good  root  in  this  kingdom,  by  the  favour  of  Roger,  the 
great  Earl  of  Sicily,  a  very  particular  friend  of  their  founder 
St.  Bruno.  Thefe  roots  fpread  vigoroufly,  and  grew  to  an 
enormous  fize,  as  to  riches  and  extent  of  pofleffions ;  but 
the  fpirit  of  the  times  threatens  them  with  a  fpeedy  lopping, 
if  not  a  total  eradication.  Not  far  from  this  place  is  a 
mine  of  iron,   now  quite  abandoned. 

On  our  left  was  Cape  di  Stilo,  a  promontory  which, 
with  Cape  Spartivento,  forms  the  bay  of  Locri.  Caftel- 
vetere,  in  a  lofty  fituation,  three  miles  from  the  fea,  occu- 
pies the  fite  of  Caulon,  of  which  fome  veftiges  are  faid  to 

exift. 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

exift.  I  favv  none  that  have  any  claim  to  fuch  remote 
antiquity. — Caulon  was  one  of  the  earliefl:  Greek  fettle- 
ments,  as  its  coins  evince,  being  incufi ;  which  was  un- 
doubtedly a  mode  of  coining  of  very  ancient  date  *.  This 
city  was  demolished,  and  its  inhabitants  removed  to  Sicily, 
by  Dionyfius,  four  hundred  years  before  the  Chriftian  asra. 
Nearer  the  fea  is  La  Roccella,  a  fief  of  the  Caraffa  family  f, 

*  Nummi  Caulonorum. 
ARG.   I.  Figura  virilis    nuda  diadem,   ftans  d.   fupra   caput   elata    telum 
vibratura  1.  extensa,  cui  fuperftat  icuncula  genuflexa  ;  fubtus 
cervus  KATAO.=rIncufTus. 

2.  Eadem  figura,  &c.  fine  epig.  =  Cervus.  laurus.  fup.  dorfum  ATA3. 

3.  Vir  nud.  fulmin.  1.  monilia  ten.  <$>  =  Cervus  KATAONIATAN. 

4.  Vir  fulm.  cervulus  KAT.=.Cervus.  vas.  $.  KATAONIAT. 

5.  Cervus.  ramus  P£  KAT.=Vir  fulm.  cervulus  KATAO. 

6.  Vir  fulm.  cervulus.  KATA.^Cervus.  arbor  ATA3. 

f  This  family  came  originally  from  the  Caraccioli,  and  is  equal  to  any  in 
the  realm  in  riches  and  confideration.     It  is  divided  into  two  branches ;  one 
of  which  gives  a  fteelyard  for  its  badge  ;  the  other,  a  bufh  of  thorns.     The 
laft  emblem  was  adopted  in   confequence  of  a  tournament  held  by  Charles 
the  Second,  in  the  fuburbs  of  Naples.     The  fon  of  that   Prince,  who  was 
King  of  Hungary,  took  great  offence  at  the  Caraffas,  for  giving  a  fliield 
barry,  argent  and  gules,  which  are  the  Hungarian  coat  of  arms ;  and  infilled 
upon  their  being  excluded  the  lifts,  unlefs  they  altered  their  bearing.     To 
obviate  all  difficulties,  the  knights  of  this  family  cut  fome  branches  out  of  a 
hedge,  and  tied  them  acrofs  their  bucklers;  a  diftinction  which  has  been 
kept  up  by  their  defcendants.     Antonio  Caraffa,  furnamed  Malizia,  made 
himfelf  very  confpicuous  as  a  politician,  in  the  reign  of  Joan  the  Second. 
In   1680,  Gregory  was  elected  Grand  Mailer  of  Malta.     But  the  Caraffa 
that  made  the  greateft  noife  in  the  world,  was  Pope  Paul  the  Fourth  ;  one 
of  the  moll  turbulent,  haughty  priefts,  that  ever  afcended  the  chair  of  St. 
Peter  fince  the  days  of  Gregory  the  Seventh,  that  famous  trampler  on  all 
pretenfions  of  kings,   and  liberties  of  people.     Paul  and  his  nephews  were, 
during  the  courfe  of  a  few  years,  the  difiurbers  of  Europe,  and  continually 
employed  in  exciting  fovereigns  and  fubje&s  to  fome  bloody  and  fanatical 
aft  of  violence.     At  his  death,  he  was  declared  an  enemy  to  Rome  ;  and  all 
his  ftatues  and  coats  of  arms  were  broken  and  thrown  into  the  Tyber. 

3  built 


339 


S4o  JOURNEY    TO    REG  GIG. 

built  on  a  rugged  eminence  overgrown  with  the  Opuntia, 
or  African  fig.  The  natives  eat  the  fruit,  and  plant  out  the 
flips  as  a  fence  to  their  gardens. 

No  author  has  clearly  determined  the  fituation  of  the 
river  Sagra  fo  renowned  for  the  defeat  of  the  Crotoniates  by 
a  handful  of  Locrians.  Thofe  who  take  it  to  be  the  Alara, 
feem  to  come  neareft  the  truth. 


SECTION      XLV. 

/^ERACE  is  poorly  built,  on  a  hill  of  coarfe  granite 
rocks  and  ftifF  clay ;  the  road  to  it  fteep  and  difficult ; 
the  vale  below  is  well  cultivated,  and  yet  does  not  produce 
corn  enough  to  anfwer  the  demands  of  the  Geracians, 
though  their  number  amounts  but  to  three  thoufand.  They 
make  good  wine,  which  has  the  valuable  quality  of  recover- 
ing its  flavour  and  fpirit  by  proper  keeping,  long  after  it 
feems  to  have  loft  both.  This  city  is  fuppofed,  by  moil 
writers,  to  Hand  upon  the  identical  fite  of  Locri,  the  capital 
of  the  Epizephyrian  Locrians.  Some  antiquaries  place  the 
old  town  nearer  the  fea  at  Pagliapoli,  where  many  fcatter- 
ed  ruins  ftill  remain.  The  brick  materials  with  which  they 
were  built,  pronounce  them  of  a  later  period  than  the  happy 
days  of  Magna  Grascia.  One  large  well-preferved  room 
difringuifhes  itfelf  above  the  reft,  but  no  part  has  any  in- 
fcription,  column,  or  ornament.  I  was  at  firft  inclined  to  thinkj 

that 


JOURNEY    TO     REGGIO.  34i 

that  Locri  had  been  fituated  in  the  plain,  which  afforded 
greater  convcniencies  for  bufinefs,  and  that  the  citadel  had 
been  built  on  the  hill  of  Gerace ;  but  as  Strabo  fays  ex- 
prefsly,  that  the  city  {food  on  the  brow  of  a  hill  called 
Efopis,  the  buildings  along  the  fhore  can  only  have  been 
fuburbs,  magazines,  and  habitations  for  fifhermen.  In  thofe 
early  days  of  navigation,  every  angle  of  a  coaft,  projecting 
rock,  ifland,  or  river's  mouth,  conftituted  a  port;  and  there- 
fore we  muft  not  be  furprifed,  if  we  are  often  at  a  lofs  to 
difcover  any  traces  of  the  ancient  harbours  we  read  of. 
Locri  had,  no  doubt,  fome  fafe  retreat  for  gallies  and  row- 
boats,  though  nothing  now  appears  but  an  open  road. 
Without  a  kw  remarkable  monuments  to  guide  us,  it  is  not 
eafy  to  difcover  the  true  pofition  of  any  ancient  town  on 
this  coaft.  The  difficulty  arifes  from  a  progreflive  change 
of  dwelling.  Adventurers,  on  their  firft  landing,  provided 
for  their  fecurity  by  feizing  upon  fome  elevated  inacceffible 
rock,  where  they  could  bid  defiance  to  the  natives,  as  well  as 
to  any  ftrangers  that  might  venture  to  land  on  the  coaft. 
As  foon  as  increafe  of  numbers  gave  them  fufficient  powers 
for  an  attempt  to  enrich  themfelves  by  conqueft  or  com- 
merce, they  defcended  from  their  mountainous  faftnefTes,. 
and  erected  commodious  cities  in  the  fertile  plains  along  the 
fhore.  The  full  tide  of  human  profperity  lafts  but  a 'moment; 
and  every  ftate,  when  once  it  has  reached  the  higheft  point 
of  glory  and  power,  muft,  by  the  natural  courfe  of  things, 
be  hurried  back  with  the  ebb  to  its  original  obfeurity.    This 

2  .ilitud  . 


342  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

viciflitude  was  experienced  by  the  Grecian  cities  of  Italy. 
Deprived  of  liberty  by  the  Romans,  they  foon  faw  the 
number  of  their  citizens  dwindle  away ;  and  then  they 
found,  that  a  too  extenfive  circuit  of  walls  in  an  open  coun- 
try expofed  them  to  continual  infults  by  fea  and  land. 
Unwholefome  vapours,  the  effects  of  depopulation  and  ne- 
glected hufbandry,  completed  their  ruin  ;  and  the  feeble 
remnants  of  their  inhabitants  retired  for  health  and  fafety  to 
the  tops  of  the  neighbouring  mountains,  where  they  built 
towns  that  refembled  aeries  of  birds  of  prey,  rather  than 
manfions  of  the  human  race.  As  peace  and  fecurity  return, 
as  agriculture  and  trade  meet  with  encouragement,  we  be- 
hold the  inhabitants  forfake  their  ufelefs  caftles,  and  venture 
once  more  into  the  plains. 

A  colony  from  Locris  in  Greece  founded  the  common- 
wealth of  Locri  in  Italy,  to  which  Zaleucus  gave  a  code  of 
laws,  efteemed  by  all  the  Greeks  a  mafter-piece  of  lcgiila- 
tion.  He  was  the  fir  ft  that  committed  his  inftitutions  to 
writing,  and  fixed  certain  bounds  to  penalties  and  punish- 
ments, which,  in  all  laws  promulgated  before  his  time, 
were  left  to  the  difcretion  of  the  judges.  Like  all  the  fol- 
lowers of  Pythagoras,  he  fupported  the  fimplicity  of  his 
decrees  by  unalterable  inflexibility,  of  which  he  is  faid  to 
have  made  his  own  family  feel  the  effects,  rather  than  de- 
rogate from  the  letter  of  the  law.  Jealous  of  innovation, 
he  enacted,  that  whoever  had  a  new  law  to  propofe,  ftiould 
appear  in  the  afTembly  of  the  people  with  a  rope  round  his 

neck, 


JOURNEY    TO    REG  G  ID.  343 

:neck,  :to  be  ftrangled  immediately,  if  the  propofals  were 
rejedled.  The  Lccrians  entered  into  an  alliance  with  the 
Sicilian  tyrants,  and  received  the  younger  Dionyfius  into 
(their  city  when  he  fled  from  Syracufe.  The  villain  repaid 
their  hofpitality  with  the  blackeft  ingratitude.  By  artifice 
and  force,  he  acquired  an  abfolute  dominion  over  them, 
and  exercifed  it  in  a  brutal  manner,  by  infulting  their  wives 
and  daughters,  and  plundering  their  property.  Upon  his 
departure  for  Sicily  the  Locrians  vindicated  their  rights,  and 
wreaked  their  vengeance  on  his  wife  and  children.  This 
commonwealth  pofTeffed  an  ample  territory,  and  refpectable 
force,  in  proportion  to  the  reft  of  the  Greek  ftates ;  but 
after  it  was  fubdued  by  Rome,  faded  away  like  a  plant 
wounded  at  the  root,  opprefled  and  ruined  by  the  cruelty 
-and  avarice  of  its  governors  *. 

I  cannot 

*  Nummi  Locrenfium. 
ATJR.  1.  Caput  Jovis  laur.  AOKPHN.=Aquila  leporem  difc.  AOKPHN. 
LA.RG.  1.  Cap.  Jov.  laur  =  Aquila  lep.  difc.  AOKPH\r. 

2.  Fulmen-caduceus  AOKPX2N.=Aquila  lep.  difc. 

3.  Cap.  imb.  diad.  ta2da.=  Aquila  fulm.  inf.  ramus.  IT.  AOKPHN. 

4.  Cap.  barb.  laur.  M.zzFigura  dans  ftolata  coron.  impon.  cap.  figure 

urbis  fedent.  AOKPHN — FflUA  niZTIS. 

5.  Cap.  Palladis  gal.  arc-us  AOKPHN.  =  Pegafus  A. 
JER.  1.  Cap.  Palladis  gal.  =  Raccmus  AOKFHN. 

2.  Caput  mul.  fpica.^- Pallas  ftans  d.  haft.  f.  clypeum.  cornuc.  ftclJa 

AGKPHN. 

3.  Cap.  V'iril.  laureat.ir  Pallas  ftans  d.  haf.  f.  cly.  A.  AOKPHN. 

4.  Cap.  Pall.  gal.  AET.=Fig.j  mul.  fedens  d.  pat.  f.  fceptium  tripus 

AOKPfiN. 

5.  Cap.  Pall.  gal.=Pegafus  AOKPHN. 

6.  Cap.  Mul.  diad.  =  Aquila  fulm.  inf.  corona  AOKPHN. 

Y  y  7.  Cap, 


344  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

I  cannot  learn  at  what  precife  time  the  prefent  name 
was  given  to  the  city,  but  as  its  Bifhop  is  called  Hieracenfis 
in  the  eighth  century,  I  fuppofe  it  became  common  about 
that  period.  Gerace  was  always  a  place  of  ftrength.  In 
the  courfe  of  a  family  quarrel  among  the  Norman  Princes, 
Guifcard  was  betrayed  and  taken  as  he  attempted  to  furprife 
it ;  and  had  the  Geracians  been  fuffered  to  follow  their  in- 
clinations, would  have  loft  his  life ;  but  Roger,  though  his 
enemy,  refcued  him  out  of  their  hands,  and  by  this  fignal 
fervice  regained  his  brother's  friendmip. 

This  was  one  of  the  numerous  baronies  lavifhed  by 
Charles  of  Anjou  on  the  Montforts.  Under  the  Durazzian 
line,  it  was  acquired  by  the  Carraccioli,  and  is  now  held  by 
the  Grimaldi  of  Genoa,  with  the  title  of  Prince. 

In  the  evening  I  joined  a  crowd  that  was  dragging  a  wo- 
man to  church,  in  order  to  have  the  devil  driven  out  of  her 
by  exorcifms.  She  was  a  middle-aged  perfon,  and  feemed 
to  be  in  very  ftrong  convulsions,  which  every  body  prefent 
firmly  believed  to  proceed  from  a  demoniacal  pofTeilion. 
The  prieft  refufing  to  come,  fome  of  the  affiftants  grew  im- 
patient, and  pulled  the  woman  about  fo  very  roughly,  that 

7.  Cap.  Jovis  laur.  AIOI.  =  Fulmen  A0KPX1N. 

8.  Cap.  Pall,  duo  glob.=in  coron.  cornu.  AO. 

9.  Cap.  Cereris  fpic.  coron.  fpica.=Pallas  ftans  d.  haftam  f.  clyp. 

cornuc.  ftella.  AOKPX2N. 

10.  Capita  Diofcur.  jugat.= Jupiter  fed.  d.  avem  f.  baculum.  cornuc. 

A0KPf2N. 

11.  Cap.  Pall.=Fulmen  A0KPX1N. 

12.  Cap.  vir.  laur.=Mars  ftans  d.  haft.  f.  clyp.  A0KPX2N. 

Belzebub 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  345 

Belzebub  thought  proper  to  decamp.  The  patient  rofe  up, 
and  though  confufed  and  panting  for  breath,  very  fooa 
recovered  her  fenfes,  and  ran  away  full  fpeed  to  her  own 
houfe.  From  which  circumftances  I  inferred,  there  was 
more  roguery  in  her  cafe  than  real  diforder. 

All  convulsions  of  the  kind  are  attributed  to  aflaults  of 
malignant  fpirits.     Near  fifteen  hundred  women,  pretending 
to  be  tormented  by  thefe  imps,   go  up  annually  to  Soriano, 
to  be  cured  of  the  pofTeflion  by  looking  at  a  portrait  of  St. 
Dominick,  fent  down  as  a  prefent  from  the  celeftial  gallery. 
By  thefe  pretexts,   they  obtain  from  their  tyrannical  fpoufes 
leave  to  make  this  pleafant  pilgrimage,   and  a  pair  of  holi- 
day fhoes,  without  which  it  would  be  highly  difrefpectful  to 
prefent  themfelves    before  the  holy  picture.     A   prieft  of 
that  convent  told  me  a  ftory  of  a  female  demoniac,  who, 
after  going  through  the  ufual  courfe  of  cure,  was  fent  tocon- 
fefs  her  fins  to  him.     As  he  was  perfectly  well  acquainted 
with  the  common  tricks,   he  ordered  her  to  give  him  the 
true  reafon  of  her  acting  that  farce,  and  threatened  her,   in 
cafe  of  obftinacy,  with  a  viiit  from  a  real  devil,  who  would 
torment  her  in  good  earneft.      The  poor  woman,   terrified 
to  death  at  the  menace,  frankly  acknowledged,  that  having 
been  married   by  her  parents  againfr.  her  inclinations   to  a 
goatherd,  who  flank  intolerably  of  his  goats  and  cheefes,  me 
abhorred  his  approach,  and  feigned  pofTeflion  to  avoid  coha- 
biting with  him.     Having  thus  wormed  the  fecret  out  of 
her,  the  prieft,  in  hopes  of  alleviating  her  misfortune,  fent 

Y  y   2  for 


34-6  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

for  her  hufband,  and  as  he  knew  it  would  be  in  vain  to 
attempt  to  argue  him  out  of  a  belief  of  the  devil's  being  in 
his  wife,  he  planned  a  different  mode  of  attack,  and  in- 
formed the  fimple  fellow,  that  he  had  difcovered  what 
particular  kind  of  fpirit  it  was;  that  this  daemon  was  re- 
markable for  an  outrageous  antipathy  to  goatherds,  and  that 
no  exorcifms  could  prevent  him  from  plaguing  them.  The 
poor  man,  whofe  fir fb  profeflion  had  been  gardening,  and 
whofe  fuccefs  in  the  other  line  of  bufinefs  had  not  been 
very  great,  readily  confented  to  return  to  his  old  way  of 
labour,  if  that  would  keep  Satan  out  of  his  houfe.  The 
friar  procured  a  garden  for  him,  and  a  chapman  for  his 
flock,  and  foon  had  the  happinefs  of  feeing  the  married 
couple  well  fettled,  and  perfectly  fatisfied  with  each  other. 

We  rode  next  day  twelve  miles,  through  a  difagreeable 
low  country,  which,  from  the  poomefs  of  its  clayey  foil, 
and  the  bad  look  of  its  corn,  may  be  pronounced  unfavour- 
able to  the  purpofes  of  agriculture.  The  next  fix  miles 
were  over  hills  of  wretched  afpecl,  compofed  of  hungry  clay 
laid  upon  beds  of  round  pebbles,  minerals,  fand,  and  fhells 
cemented  together.  After  a  weary  ride  through  execrable 
roads,  we  flopped  at  one  of  the  worft-looking  villages  I  ever 
beheld.  It  is  called  Bianco,  from  the  chalky  hill  it  ftands 
upon,  and  confifts  of  houfes  built  of  ftone  and  mud,  cover- 
ed with  tufted  boughs.  The  appearance  of  every  thing 
about  it  was  fo  dreary,  the  looks  of  the  villagers  fo  fquallid, 
and  the  evening  fo  ftormy,  that  I  was  glad  to  remain  in  my 

2  fmoky 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  347 

fmoky  cribj  and  comfort  myfelf  with  fome  white-wine  of  a 
ftrong  body  and  flavour,  though  rather  too  great  a  decree 
of  roughnefs.  My  quiet  was  difturbed  by  the  danger  of  my 
guide,  whofe  hand  was  bitten  by  a  viper,  as  he  was  climb- 
ing over  an  old  wall.  The  fymptoms  were  very  quick  and 
violent ;  but  the  landlord  removed  them  by  applying  a  red- 
hot  iron  to  the  wound,  and  thoroughly  fcarirying  round  it. 
He  faid  the  coldnefs  of  the  weather  had  benumbed  the 
ferpent,  and  rendered  the  venom  lefs  virulent  than  it  would 
have  been  in  a  hot  day.  He  mentioned  a  relation  of  his, 
whofe  head  had  fwelled  to  a  prodigious  fize  from  his  having 
fucked  the  place  where  a  viper  had  bit  one  of  his  children  °y 
but  the  fwelling  went  off  with  fomentations. 


S  E  C  T  I   ON     XLVL 

May\\\T^>  defcended  the  mountain  at  the  hazard  of 
our  lives,  by  a  miry  narrow  road,  buttrefTed 
up  with  pofts,  over  which  are  laid  wooden  bridges  that 
quiver  with  the  preffure  even  of  a  foot  traveller.  As  it  had 
rained  very  hard  all  night,  our  4eader  prudently  preferred  a 
longer  way  by  the  fands,  to  a  fhort  cut  through  the  moun- 
tains. We  crofTed  the  ifthmus  of  Cape  Bruzzano,  where 
the  Locrians  firft  landed,  and  remained  four  years  before 
they  moved  northward.  The  low  grounds  are  extremely 
iich  in  herbage,  and  produce  fpontaneoufly  thick  crops  of 

fainfoio., 


34S  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

fainfoin,  which  are  not  turned  to  proper  account;  half  the 
grafs  is  fuffered  to  rot  on  the  ground  for  want  of  cattle  to 
confume  it.  Oleander,  and  many  other  beautiful  fhrubs, 
line  the  banks  of  the  torrents,  near  fome  of  which  I  found 
roots  of  the  Calamus  Aromaticus,  Acorus,  or  fweet  Flag, 
befides  many  other  rare  plants;  but  in  the  hurry  of  a 
journey,  which  had  not  botany  for  its  fole  object,  their 
names  have  efcaped  my  memory.  I  am  confident  a  regular 
fearch  in  thefe  waftes,  would  afford  botanical  obfervers  a 
treafure  of  curious  and  medicinal  vegetables.  I  dined  at 
Brancaleone,  a  fmall  village;  and  afterwards  rode  to  examine 
Cape  Spartivento,  the  mod  foutherly  point  of  Italy.  It  is 
furrounded  by  fmall  iflands,  and  numerous  rocky  fhelves, 
on  which  the  waves  break  with  great  fury  as  they  are  driven 
down  the  ftreights.  From  this  angle  we  ftruck  into  the 
mountains;  and  after  much  fatigue  reached  the  city  of 
Bova,  where  a  letter  procured  me  a  very  polite  reception 
from  one  of  the  Canons. 

Bova  is  placed  on  the  brow  of  a  hill,  and  being  out  of 
the  way  of  trade  and  thoroughfare,  can  boafi:  of  neither 
wealth  nor  agriculture.  Moft  of  the  inhabitants  are  of 
Greek  origin  and  rite.  I  do  not  mean  that  they  can  trace 
their  pedigree  up  to  the  old  republicans  of  Magna  Grascia, 
for  all  fuch  filiations  have  been  cut  off,  and  confounded  in 
the  darknefs  of  many  revolving  ages.  Thefe  people  are  of 
a  much  later  importation,  having  emigrated  from  Albania 
only  a  few  centuries  ago.     I  was  defirous  of  obtaining  every 

5  pofHble 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  349 

pofiible  information  about  them,  and  fhall  bring  into  one 
point  of  view  all  I  have  learned  at  different  times  concerning 
their  hiftory. 

When  we  recollecl,  that  a  very  large  portion  of  the  king- 
dom was  once  inhabited  or  governed  by  Greeks,  and  under- 
ftand  that  the  Grecian  rite  has  been  in  force  in  many  parts 
of  it,  and  ftill  is  fo  in  fome,  we  naturally  incline  to  fuppofe 
a  continued  poiTeflion,  and  the  Greek  church  eftablifhed 
here  by  prefcription  ;  but  the  fallacy  of  our  conclufions  will 
appear  upon  reflecting,  that,  when  Chriftianity  began  in  Italy, 
fcarce  the  fmalleft  trace  could  be  difcovered  of  Grecian  laws, 
cuftoms,  or  language.  Polybius,  two  hundred  years  before, 
fpeaks  of  them  as  old  or  former  eftablifhments.  Cicero 
mentions  them  as  being  already  obfolete  ;  and  we  learn 
from  Strabo,  that  except  three  cities  which  retained  fome 
faint  idea  of  them,  all  the  reft  of  Magna  Grsecia  was  become 
completely  Roman  in  tongue,  habits,  and  jurifprudence. 
The  infcriptions  found  in  the  Neapolitan  ftate  clearly  prove  it. 
If  any  veftiges  might  be  difcerned  during  the  reign  of  Au- 
guftus,  they  were  certainly  very  foon  after  obliterated  by  the 
introduction  of  colonies,  and  a  feries  of  domeftic  wars. 
From  thefe  premifes  it  follows,  that  when  a  patriarch  was 
eftablifhed  at  Conftantinople,  there  exifted  no  particular 
connexion  between  this  country  and  Greece;  but  the  Nea- 
politan provinces  formed,  with  the  reft  of  Italy,  part  of  the 
immediate  jurifdiction  of  the  Bifhop  of  Rome.  They  fol- 
lowed the  Latin  rite  till  the  eighth  century,  when  Leo  Ifau- 

ricus 


35o  J  0  U  R  N  E  Y    TO    R  E  G  G  I  O. 

ricus  compelled  the  fubjects  of  his  Italian  dominions  to 
renounce  all  obedience  to  the  fee  of  Rome,  and  join  in 
communion  with  the  Conftantinopolitan  patriarch.  The 
Norman  conquerors,  through  zeai  and  policy,  reftored  this 
province  to  the  Pope's  authority,  thereby  the  better  to  anni- 
hilate all  union  with  the  Greek,  intereft.  In  the  fifteenth 
centurv,  almoft  every  trace  of  the  Greeks  was  loft,  except 
fome  faint  traditions  and  refemblances  of  cuftoms,  when 
the  following  feries  of  events  brought  a  new  colony  into 
Italy.. 

George  Caftriot,  Prince  of  Epire  or  Albany,  better 
known  among  us  by  the  name  of  Scanderbeg,  the  bulwark 
of  Chriftendom.  againft  the  Turks,  received  a  confiderable 
and  timely  fuccour  from  Alphonfus  the  Firft.  In  return, 
he  ten  years  afterwards,  in  1460,  eroded  the  Adriatic,  de- 
feated John  of  Anj  )u,  and  eftablifhed  Ferdinand  the  Firft 
on  the  Neapolitan  throne.  That  grateful  King  prefented 
him  with  many  large  fiefs,  and  invited  the  Epirotes  to  fettle 
in  his  dominions.  The  death  of  Scanderbeg  removed  every 
obftacle  to  the  Turkifh  conquefts,  and  John  his  fon  fled  to 
Naples  for  refuge.  He  was  received  with  open  arms,  lands 
were  affigned  to  his  followers,  and  exemption   from  taxes 

inted  them,  with  many  other  privileges,  of  which  fome 
fhadow  ftill  remains.  Thefe  ftrangers  fixed  their  abode  in 
various  provinces,  but  chiefly  in  Calabria,  from  a  profpect 
cf  fuperior  advantages,  by  being  under  the  protection  of 
Irene  Caftriota,   married  to  San  Severino,  Prince  of  Bifig- 

nancu 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  35, 

nano.     The  Albanefe  continued  to  come  over  fo  late  as  the 
reign  of  Charles  the  Fifth,  and  their  numbers  increafed  very 
fenfibly.      At  prefent,   they  amount  to  a  hundred  thoufand 
at  leaf!:,  difperfed  in  a  hundred  villages  or  towns ;   but  many 
of  thefe  fettlements  are  wretchedly  poor,  and  much  decayed: 
thofe  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Bova  remarkably  fo.      The 
villagers  carry  corn,  cheefe,  and  cattle  to  Reggio ;    but  that 
being  a  poor  mart,  has  but  fmall  demands,  and  little  circu- 
lation of  money.     Their    common    language  is   Albanefe. 
The    men    can    fpeak  Calabrefe ;    but   the    women,    who 
neither  buy  nor  fell,  underftand  no  tongue  but  their  own, 
which  they  pronounce  with  great  fweetnefs  of  accent.    This 
Albanian  dialedl:  is  quite  different  from   the  modern  Greek 
and  Sclavonian  languages,  though  they  are  fpoken  by  all  the 
nations  round  Albania.     It  is  worthy  of  remark,   that  this 
jargon,  which   has   been   known  in  Europe  upwards  of  a 
thoufand  years,  mould  be  fo  little  attended  to,  that  it  ftill 
remains  without  an  alphabet,   and  many  of  its  founds  are 
not    to  be  accurately  expreffed  either   by  Latin  or   Greek 
letters.     From   this   fingularity  we   may  infer,  that  it  is  a 
mixture  of  the  dialects  of  thofe  Tartarian  hordes  that  over- 
ran Macedonia  and  Greece  in  the  eighth  century;   to  which 
medley  the  intercourfe  with  Germans,   Italians,   and  Cru- 
faders,  has  added  a  variety  of  foreign  terms.      The  roots  of 
this  language  are  unconnected  with  thofe  of  all  other  Euro- 
pean ones,    but  it  abounds  with  words  borrowed   from  old 
and    modern    Greek,    Latin,    Sclavonian,    Italian,    French, 

Z  z  Gjrman, 


352  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

German,  and,  what  is  very  extraordinary  and  pad:  account- 
ing for,  many  English  terms  employed  in  their  native  iigni- 
fication,  with  fome  variation  in  the  declenfion  and  pronun- 
ciation *. 

The  Greek  rite  is  now  obferved  in  the  province  of  Co- 
fenza  alone,  the  Miniftry  and  Bifhops  having,  by  degrees, 
perfuaded  or  compelled  the  other  Albanefe  to  conform  to 
the  Roman  liturgy  and  difcipline.  The  Latin  Diocefans 
found  it,  no  doubt,  inconvenient  to  be  charged  with  the 
direction  of  a  foreign  nation,  of  whofe  cuftoms,  language, 
and  ceremonies  they  did  not  choofe  to  confefs  their  ig- 
norance. Moreover,  a  total  want  of  inftruction  had  plunged 
the  Epirotic  colonifts  into  fuch  a  flate  of  barbarifm,  that  at 
laft  there  was  not  a  prieft  to  be  found  among  them,  who 
knew  Greek  enough  to  perform  divine  fervice  in  that 
language.  To  remedy  thefe  diforders,  and  preferve  his 
native  wormip,  Monfignor  Rodata,  Librarian  of  the  Vatican, 
prevailed  upon  Clement  the  Twelfth  to  found  a  college  at 


•  Thefe  words 

among  others : 

Aunt 

Crab 

Let 

Rip 

Boor 

Door 

Leg 

Sea 

Breeches 

Dream 

Lofty 

Sheep 

Bread 

Feather 

Lofe 

Stir 

Cow 

Grumble 

Milk 

Sight 

Cool 

Gape 

Mu  fh  room 

Shame 

Chimney 

Hunt 

Meal 

Tickle 

Chide 

Hunger 

Mud 

Uncle 

Cough 

Knee 

Open 

Wood 

Can 

Leave 

Run 

You. 

This  Catalogue  was  given  me  by  D.  Pafquale  Baffi,  an  Albanefe. 

St.  Bene- 


JOURNEY    TO    R  EG  GIO.  353 

St. Benedetto  Ullano,  in  Upper  Calabria,  for  the  education 
of  the  young  Greeks  who  wifhed  to  dedicate  themfelves  to 
the  fervice  of  the  church.  He  was  himfelf  confecrated  an 
Archbifhop  in  fartibus^  and  fent  to  lay  the  firft  ftone  of 
this  Italo-Greco-Corfinian  feminary.  Diplomas,  immuni- 
ties, and  privileges  were  heaped  upon  the  eftablimment, 
the  property  and  jurifdiction  of  many  villages  purchafed  for 
it,  iixteen  thoufand  crowns  expended  upon  the  buildings, 
and  a  thoufand  ducats  a  year  fet  apart  for  the  provifion  of 
the  Bifhop.  He  acts  as  prefident  of  the  college ;  but  in  his 
epifcopal  powers  is  fubordinate  to  the  Latin  Prelate  of 
Biiignano,  without  whofe  licence  he  cannot  confer  orders 
on  his  ftudents.  There  is,  befides,  a  parim-prieft  and  a 
fchoolmafter.  The  reft  are  boarders  at  twenty  crowns  a 
year.  Two  Dominican  friars  read  lectures  of  moral  philo- 
sophy and  fcholaftic  divinity  ;  but  whenever  they  touch 
upon  the  five  famous  propofitions  in  difpute  between  the 
two  churches,  the  zeal  of  their  anceftors  breaks  out  in  the 
fcholars,  who  feldom  hear  them  inforced  without  betraying 
fome  tokens  of  difguft.  Rodata  died  too  foon  for  the  good 
of  his  fettlement  -3 — abufes  crept  in,  and  the  temporal  con- 
cerns of  the  houfe  have,  of  late  years,  been  egregioufly  mis- 
managed. . 

Thefe  Albanefe  are  a  quiet  induftrious  people,  and  their 
women  remarkable  for  regularity  of  conduct.  In  their 
drefs  they  preferve  the  coftume  of  Illyricum,  from  whence 
their   forefathers   came.      The   raoft   beautiful    women   are 

Z  z   2  generally 


354 


JOURNEY    TO     REGGIO. 

generally  given  in  marriage  to  clergymen,  and  are  exceed- 
ingly proud  of  their  hufbands ;  for  among  them  priefthood 
is  the  higheft  nobility.  When  an  ecclefiaftic  dies,  his 
widow  never  enters  into  a  fecond  engagement,  becaufe  none 
but  a  virgin  can  afpire  to  the  hand  of  a  prieft;  and  any  other 
is  beneath  her  acceptance. 


F 


SECTION     XLVII. 

ROM  Bova  I  travelled  thirty  miles  along  the  more  to 

Reggio.     As  foon  as  the  morning  mifts  were  difpelled 

by  the  rifing  fun,    I  had  a  view  of  Sicily,    where  JEtna 

towered  above  all  other  mountains,   with  a  flender  line  of 

fmoke  flying  from  its  top  in  a  horizontal  direction,  as  far  as 

the  eye  could  reach.     We  breakfafled  at  a  farmer's  houfe 

in    a  poor,    but    well-fituated   village,    called    Amendolia. 

Here  we  defcended  into  the  plain,    and  croffed  the  river 

Alice,  the  ancient  boundary  of  the  Locrian  flate.     Immenfe 

quantities  of  anchovies  frequent  the  mouth  of  this  ftream 

and  the  adjacent  coaft;   it  is  therefore  very  likely,  that  either 

the  fim  derived  its  Latin  name  Halec*  from  the  river,   or 

the   river  was  called   after   the   fifh.      At   Pentedattolo,    a 

pretty  village,   I  found  the  ftate  of  agriculture  much  better 

than   what  I  had    hitherto   feen    in    this   province.     The 

*  The  Italian  name  of  both  is  Alice. 
4.  ground 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  35J 

ground  is  managed  with  more  fkill  and  neatnefs,  and  con- 
fequently  productive  of  greater  crops.  Its  hemp  is  the  bed 
in  Calabria.  The  hills  that  border  upon  thefe  flats,  con  aft 
of  chalk  and  clay,  mixed  with  rocks,  formed  of  ferruginous 
particles,  talk,  and  fmal!  pebbles.  The  farmers  were  bufy 
with  their  harveft,but  feemed  to  lofe  much  time  from  a  fcarcity 
of  hands.  Near  Montebello,  we  pafTed  over  the  lair.  Point  of  the 
Apennines,  at  the  Capo  dell'  Armi,  where  the  mountainous 
ridge  finks  into  the  fea,  to  rife  again  on  the  Sicilian  (hore 
at  Taormina,  in  an  oblique  line.  The  opinion  which  was 
generally  held  by  the  ancients,  that  Sicily  was  formerly  part 
of  Italy,  torn  from  it  by  fome  violent  concuflion  of  the 
globe,  has  been  rejected  by  Cluver  and  others,  upon  their  not 
being  able  to  trace  any  correfponding  angles  and  congenerous 
ftrata  on  the  different  fides  of  the  ftreights.  Their  ill  fuccefs 
in  this  fearch  arofe  from  their  miftaking;  the  direction  of 
of  the  mountains.  They  denied  the  original  juncture,  be- 
caufe  they  found  no  traces  of  it  between  Capo  dell'  Armi  and 
the  heights  behind  Cape  Peloro;  but,  upon  a  more  accurate 
furvey,  they  would  have  difcovered  that  the  mountains  of 
Taormina  correfpond,  in  composition  and  fhape,  with  the 
extremity  of  the  Apennine,  and  that  the  high  lands  of  Cape 
Vaticano  point  towards  the  eminences  north  of  Meflina. 

The  foil  of  this  promontory  is  light,  and  the  (lone  white, 
which  is,  no  doubt,  the  origin  of  its  Greek  name,  Leueopetra, 
white  rock  — The  afpedt  of  the  country  is  wild,  and  bare  of 
trees,  but  covered  with  lentifcus,   the  common  fuel  of  the 

neighbourhood. 


3iG  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

neighbourhood.     The  face  of  the  rocks  is  divided  by  narrow 
ftreaks  of  pebbles  inclining   to  the  horizon.     The  road  is 
excellent  for  horfes ;   the  profpects  enchanting.      The  tra- 
veller has  under  his  eye  the  beautiful  Faro  of  Medina,  and 
the  fertile  plains  of  Reggio,   contrafted  with  a  bold  chain 
of  mountains  that  ftretches  away  to   the   north-eaft.     On 
defcending  to  the  weft,   we   entered  upon  a  fcene  utterly 
different  from  what  I  had  been   long  accuftomed  to.     In- 
ftead  of  hills  and  marfhy  mores,   with  little  population,   or 
appearance   of  induftry,   I  now  came   to  a  rich   delicious 
oarden,  fhaded  by  groves  and  avenues  of  poplars  and  mul- 
berry-trees,   divided  by  hedges  of  pomegranates,  inclofing 
vineyards  and  orchards  of  orange,   citron,  and  various  other 
kinds  of  aromatic  fruit.    Vegetables  of  all  forts  abound  under 
the  made  of  thefe  perfumed  plantations;   but  hemp  is  chiefly 
cultivated,  as  being  the  mod  lucrative,   though  its  emana- 
tions   are   fuppofed    to    be    pernicious.       Copious    ftreams 
meander  through  thefe  agreeable  plains,  and  diftribute  life 
and  vigour  to  every  plant.      On  each  fide  of  the  road  are 
houfes  erected  for  the  accommodation  of  filk- worms,   upon 
a  particular  plan  of  confiruction.    The  windows  are  long,  and 
not  above  fix  inches  wide.      This  narrownefs  prevents  too 
great  a  quantity  of  air  being  admitted  at  a  time,  which  would 
overpower  the  tender  infects.      When  the  eggs  are  on  the 
point  of  being  hatched,  thefe  holes  are  (hut,  and  a  moderate 
fire  kept  up  in  the  rooms.     The  worms,   as  foon  as  they 
come  out,  are  placed  upon  beds  of  reeds,   and  there  fed 

with 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  357 

with  leaves  of  the  mulberry- tree,  which,  in  this  diftricT,  is- 
invariably  of  the  red  fort.  It  is  preferred  to  the  white- 
fruited  kind,  as  being  a  later  mooter,  and  better  adapted  to 
the  periods  of  the  worm's  life,  which  would  be  endangered 
from  late  changes  of  weather,  if  forced  out  of  its  mell  at  the 
time  the  white  mulberry  produces  its  leaves;  beildcs,  it  is 
the  opinion  of  the  filk- workers,  that  worms  fed  with  the 
red  mulberry,  produce  a  more  compact  heavy  filk,  than 
thofe  that  live  upon  the  leaves  of  the  white  one.  I  am 
apt  to  think  this  a  vulgar  prejudice,  unwarranted  by  expe- 
rience, as  the  Chinefe,  Piedmontefe,  and  Languedocians  pre- 
fer the  white  fort.  I  was  furprifed  to  fee  the  Calabrefe 
bring  up  their  filk-worms  fo  tenderly;  for  1  mould  have 
thought  their  climate  warm  and  conflant  enough  to  allow 
them  to  leave  the  worms  upon  the  trees,  as  they  are  treated 
in  the  fouthern  parts  of  China ;  but  I  was  told,  that  many 
experiments  had  been  made,  without  fuccefs,  to  difcover  a 
method  of  preferving  them  in  the  open  air.  In  order  to  pro- 
vide food  for  them  in  cafe  of  a  blight  among  the  mulberry- 
trees,  other  leaves  have  been  tried,  and  bramble  tops  have 
been  found  the  beft  fuccedaneum.  In  the  management  of 
this  produce,  the  Calabrefe  are  much  inferior  to  the  Tuf- 
cans,  who,  though  many  degrees  farther  north,  contrive  to 
have  two  hatchings,  or  feafons,  in  a  year.  Thefe  lilk-worm- 
houfes  are  the  property  of  reputable  families  in  Reggio, 
who  furnifh  rooms,  leaves,  eggs,  and  every  necefiary  imple- 
ment; take  two-thirds  of  the  profit,  and  leave  the  other  for 

the 


358  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

the  attendants.  A  fucceffion  of  eggs  is  imported  from 
Leghorn,  and  other  places,  to  renew  the  breed,  and  by 
frequent  changes  keep  up  the  quality  of  the  filk.  Great 
care  is  requifite  to  prevent  lizards  from  entering  thefe 
apartments.  If  they  get  in  while  the  worms  are  employed 
in  their  functions  or  transformations,  they  will  deftroy  great 
numbers,  by  running  to  and  fro  along  the  fhelves. — The 
natural  and  powerful  enemy  of  the  lizard,  is  the  large  black 
fnake  fo  common  in  Italy.  The  fight  of  one  of  them  will 
fcare  away  all  lizards,  and  therefore  is  very  agreeable  and 
ferviceable  to  the  (ilk-dealers,  who  accept  it  as  a  happy  omen, 
and  fcream  out,  Good  luck!  good  luck!  whenever  they  fee 
one  of  thefe  reptiles  creep  into  their  houfe.  To  fecure  a 
good  filk  year,  they  ofler  a  part  of  the  produce  to  the  faint 
of  the  parifh,  who  fometimes  gets  a  fifth  (hare  from  thefe 
zealots.  Mariners,  employed  in  exporting  this  commodity 
in  barks,  lay  afide  a  bale  of  filk  for  their  particular  patron; 
but  if  there  fall  any  rain  to  fpoil  the  cargo,  the  faint  is 
fuppofed  not  to  have  fulfilled  the  reciprocal  agreement,  and 
accordingly  lofes  all  claim  to  his  portion. 

All  the  pods  mud  be  carried  to  public  caldrons  at 
Reggio,  and  there  pay  a  duty  for  boiling  and  winding  off". 
As  the  winders  work  by  the  pound,  they  perform  their  ta(k 
in  a  more  (lovenly,  carelefs  manner,  than  they  would  do 
were  they  paid  by  the  day.  After  the  filk  is  drawn  off, 
foity-two  grana  and  a  half  per  pound  are  exacted,  even 
though    the    owner    (liould    keep    it    for   his  private  ufe. 

Nothing 


JOURNEY     TO    REGGIO.  359 

Nothing  can  be  more  unfair  than  this  tax,  as  the  weight  is 
fet  down  while  the  merchandife  is  wet  and  heavy.      The 
tyranny  of  excife  is  ftill  carried  greater  lengths,    for  the 
poor  wretches  are  forced  to  pay  one  grana  a  pound  for  the 
refufe  and  unprofitable  pods,   and   two  carlini  a  year  for 
every    mulberry-tree    growing     in    their    grounds.       This 
odious,  abfurd  impofition  was   planned,    by  the  Marquis  of 
Squillace,  contrary  to  every  wife  principle  of  adminiflration, 
and  with  many  other  vexations  has  checked  this  advantage- 
ous  branch  of  commerce,    difcouraged   the    farmers,    and 
caufed   hundreds  of  valuable  trees  to  be  cut  down  to  fave 
the  duty.      In  general,   the  profits  of  the  lilk  trade  in  this 
country  centre  in  the  Barons  and  Revenue-officers.     The 
former  by  monopoly,  and  the  latter  by  exactions,  oblige  the 
poor  merchants  to  fmuggle  for  a  livelihood,   and,   to  the 
great  detriment  of  the  royal  receipt,   the  excifemen  find  it 
their  interefl  to  connive  at  the  pra&ice. 


SECTION     XLVIII. 

'HpHE  approach  to  Reggio  is  charming;  for  every  cottage 
of  the  fuburb  is  fhaded  with  a  beautilul  arbour  of  vines, 
loaded  with  cluflers  of  grapes,   that   produce  a  very  good 
fort  of  wine. 

Oranges,  and  their  kindred  fruits,  arrive  at  great  per- 
fection in  thefe  plains,  which  are  faid  to  be  the  firft  fpot  in 

3  A  ,  Italy 


■6o  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

Italy  where  their  culture  was  attempted,  and  from  which  it 
was  extended    over  the   country.     They  are  found   to  be 
much  hardier  than  was  at  firft  fufpecled,    many  large  plant- 
ations thriving  at  the  foot  of  the  Apennines,   twenty  miles 
from  the  lea,   where  in  winter  there  is  often  froft  enough 
to   congeal   water.      The   Rheggians   carry   on   a  lucrative 
traffic  with  the  French  and  Genoefe  in  effence  of  citron, 
orange,  and  bergamot.      This  fpirit  is  extracted  by  paring 
off  the  rhind  of  the  fruit  with  a  broad  knife,    prefling  the 
peel   between  wooden  pincers   againft  a   fpunge;    and,    as 
foon  as  the  fpunge  is  faturated,  the  volatile  liquor  is  fqueezed 
into  a  phial,   and   fold  at  fifteen  carlines  an  ounce.      The 
caput   mortuum  is   eaten  by  oxen,  and  the  pulp  ferves  to 
make  fyrup.      There  is  a  fmall  fort  of  citrons  fet  apart  for 
the  Jews  of  Leghorn,  who  come  every  year  to  buy  them  for 
three  tornefi  a  piece.      As  they  are  deftined  for   fome  reli- 
aious  ceremonies,  the  buyers  take  great  care  not  to  pollute 
them  by  a  touch  of  the  naked  hand. 

The  olives  of  Reggio  are  large  and  pulpy.  They  are 
much  admired  by  thofe  who  relifh  a  high  flavour;  but  to 
thofe  who  have  been  accuftomed  only  to  eat  the  Provence 
fort,  they  appear  too  ftrong.  The  exportation  of  oil  brings 
into  Calabria-ukra  half  a  million  of  ducats  annually. 

Before  the  Saracens  were  driven  back  to  their  original 
habitations  on  the  Arabian  and  African  fands,  the  environs 
of  this  city  were  adorned  with  ftately  groves  of  palm-trees. 
Many  of  thefe  trees  were  felled  by  the  Chriftians  out  of  a 

whimfical 


JOURNEY     TO     REGG10.  361 

whimfical  hatred  to  the  plant,  as  if  it  had  been  an  appur- 
tenance of  Mahometifm.  The  Infidels  themfelves,  on  their 
retreat,  deftroyed  all  the  male- palms,  except  fuch  as  grew 
within  the  walls.  There  are  fome  tiees  ftanding  in  the 
city  which  annually  produce  feveral  pounds  of  dates ;  but 
mod  of  them  fall  off  before  they  ripen,  and  are  eaten  by 
the  hogs.  It  has  been  remarked,  that  in  feafons  wherein 
the  Scirocco,  or  other  foutherly  winds  blow  for  a  long  con- 
tinuance, the  dates  ripen  better  and  fooner  than  ufual. 
Perhaps  the  great  quantity  of  warm  moiflure  and  durt 
fcattered  over  them  by  thofe  winds,  refolves  the  natural  re- 
fraclorinefs  of  the  fruit,  by  caufing  an  uncommon  heat  and 
fermentation.  A  fimilar  precocity  is  obferved  in  figs  grow- 
ing near  a  dufty  road.  It  is  fuppofed  that  the  fprinkling  of 
lees  of  oil  would  haften  the  maturation  both  of  figs  and 
dates. 

Figs  here  have  a  fine  flavour ;  thofe  of  Felugafo  and 
Mammola  are  the  beft.  The  gardeners  of  this  province  do 
not  follow  the  Levantine  method  of  caprification,  which  is 
performed  by  carrying  an  infedt  from  the  wild  tree  to  the 
cultivated  one,  in  order  to  procure  impregnation  by  the 
duft  or  pollen  that  flicks  to  the  feet  and  body  of  the  fly, 
as  the  wild  fig  alone  bears  male  flowers :  nor  do  the^ 
ripen  this  fruit  as  the  Neapolitan  cultivators  do,  by  touch- 
ing the  eye  of  it  vVith  a  feather  dipt  in  oil.  The  Calabrian 
figs  come  on  very  well  without  thefe  helps,  though  the 
wild  plant,  abounding  every  where3  affords  opportunity  for 

3  A  2  caprification, 


36a  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

caprification,  if  required.  When  the  Calabrefe  are  defirous 
of  raifing  fig-trees  from  feed,  a  method  lefs  in  ufe  than  flip- 
ping, they  gather  a  quantity  of  wild  figs,  firing  them  upon 
pack-thread,  and  hang  them  over  the  cultivated  ones  on  the 
tree,  till  both  are  half-dried  by  the  fun.  In  October  they 
fplit  the  garden  fruit,  and  rub  it  very  hard  upon  a  rope. 
When  the  rope  is  covered  with  feeds,  they  bury  it  a  kw 
inches  under  ground  ;  and  in  a  fhort  time  a  plentiful  crop 
of  feedlings  appears,  which  mufl:  be  grafted,  as  they  are  all 
wild,  or  at  leaft  of  a  mongrel  breed. 

The  firft  Platanus  ever  feen  in  Italy  was  brought  from 
Sicily  by  Dionyfius  the  tyrant,  and  planted  in  his  garden  at 
Reggio.  The  Mufa  and  Ananas  grow  very  well  out  of 
doors  here.  The  Prince  of  Scilla  was,  I  believe,  the  firft 
in  this  part  of  the  world  that  cultivated  the  pine-apple.  He 
treated  it  in  the  beginning  with  great  charinefs  and  pre- 
caution; but,  upon  trial,  found  a  bolder  management  fuit 
it  better. 

The  hills,  that  fkirt  the  great  chain  of  mountains,  abound 
with  chefnut- trees,  producing  very  large  and  fweet  fruit, 
which  the  inhabitants  dry,  grind,  knead  into  a  parte,  and 
ufe  in  lieu  of  bread. 

Between  Reggio  and  Scilla  a  filver  mine  was  opened  by 
the  prefent  King  of  Spain;  but  the  vein  lying  in  a  granite 
rock  that  dips  confiderably  towards  the  fea,  as  if  dragged 
down  by  the  finking  of  the  ftreights,  was  not  fufficient  to 
cover  the  expences,  and  therefore  abandoned.     I  believe 

this 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  363 

this  bad  fuccefs  may  alfo  be  attributed  to  the  unfkilful- 
nefs  and  lazinefs  of  the  miners.  Large  quantities  of  ore 
were  ftolem  and  at  laft  all  the  works  deftroyed,  by  the 
negligence  of  the  overfeers,  who  left  the  furnaces  lighted 
when  they  went  away.  The  buildings  took  fire,  and  were 
entirely  confumed  ;  and  the  whole  ftock  reduced,  by  the 
violence  and  continuance  of  the  flames,  to  a  ftate  of  vitrifi- 
cation or  calcination. 

Reggio    can    boaft    of   neither    beautiful    buildings    nor 
ftrong  fortifications.      Of  its  edifices  the  Gothic  cathedral  is 
the  only  finking  one ;    but  it   affords   nothing  curious   in 
architecture.     The  citadel  is  far  from  formidable,  according 
to  the  prefent  fyftem  of  tactics  ;   nor   could   the  city  walls 
make   a    lon'g    refinance    againft    any   enemy   but   Barbary 
corfairs : — and  even  thefe  they  have   not  always  been   able 
to  repel  ;  for,   in  1543,   it  was  laid  in  afhes  by  BarbarofTa  \ 
Muftapha  facked  it  fifteen   years  after ;   and  the  defolation 
was    renewed    in     1593,    by   another    fet   of   Turks.      Its 
expofed  fituation,  on  the  very  threfiiold  of  Italy,  and  front- 
ing Sicily,  has,  from  the  earlieff.  period,  rendered  it  liable  to 
attacks  and  devaluation.      The  Chalcidians  feized  upon  it ; 
or,  according  to  the  ufual  Greek  phrafe,  founded  it,  and 
called  the   colonv   Rhe<non,    from   a   word    that    means   a 
break  or  crack  ;  allufive  of  its  pofition  on  the  point  where 
Sicily  broke  off  from  the  continent.      Anaxilas  opprefTed  its 
liberties.      Dionyfius  the  Elder  took  it,  and   put  many  of 
the  principal  citizens  to  death,   in  revenge  for  their  having 

reiufed 


364  JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO. 

refufed  his  alliance.  The  Campanian  legion,  Tent  to  protect 
the  Rhegians,  turned  its  fword  againft  them,  maffacred 
many  inhabitants,  and  tyrannized  over  the  remainder  ;  till 
the  Roman  fenate  thought  proper  to  punifh  thefe  traitors 
with  exemplary  feverity,  though  at  the  fame  time  it  entered 
into  league  with  the  revolted  garrifon  of  Meflina.  This 
union  with  a  fet  of  villains,  guilty  of  the  fame  crime, 
proved  that  no  love  of  juflice,  but  political  reafons  alone, 
drew  down  its  vengeance  on  the  Campanians  *. 

I  en- 

*  Nummi  Rheginorum. 

ARC   i.  Facies  leonis=Fig.  vir.  fed.  in  cor.  ONI33.S. 

2.  Fac.  leo.=Cap.  mul.  bur.  PHriNHN. 

3.  Fac.  leo.=Cap.  vitulinum.  RECINON. 

4.  Fac.  leo.  =  Flos  PH. 

iER.   1.  Cap.    mul.    averfa    niodio    coron.— Jupiter    fed.    d.    haft,    tfipus 
PHriNXlN. 

2.  Cap.  Jovis  lanr.  =  Mulier  ftans  d.  patera  ferpentem  pafcit.  Iir. 

PHriN. 

3.  Cap.  Dianas  =  Fig.  vir.  ftan.  in  brach.  avem.  d.  ramum.  f.  bacu- 

lum.  cornucop.  PHTINfiN. 

4.  Cap.  Dia.=  Leo  graciiens  PHriNIiN. 

5.  Cap.  Apoll.  laur.  — Tripus  PHriNXlN. 

6.  Cap.  Apoll.  &  Dian  Jug.  =  Tripus  PHriNnN. 

7.  Cap.  Dian.  p..  nTripus  PHriNftN. 

8.  Cap.  Dian.  —  Lyra  PHriNXlN. 

9.  Fac.  leonis=:Lyra.  luna  PHTINIiN. 
ic.  Fac.  leon.  —  Tripus  PHriNXlN. 

11.  Cap.  Pall.  gal.  gryps  in  gal.  =  Minerva  ftans  d.  Vicloriam.  f.  haft. 

&  clyp.  fulmen  n.  PHHNXlN. 

12.  Cap.  imb.  =  Fig.    vir.   nuda  fed.   d.   fagittam  f.   arcum.   n.   FH- 

riNHN. 

13.  Cap.  Apoll.  K.  PHriNnN=Leon.  facies. 

14.  Cap.  Apoll. =Vir  nud.  ftans  d.  ramum  flip,  tripod,  f.  haftam. 

15.  Cap.  viri.l.  Jugata  =  Vir  ftans  avem  d.  arborem  f.  PHriNflN. 

16.  Cap. 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  3Gj 

I  enjoyed  feveral  delightful  walks  along  the  beach. 
Wherever  a  hole  is  made  in  the  fands,  though  within  a  foot 
of  the  fea,  frefh  water  bubbles  up.  The  views  on  every 
fide  are  enchanting,  equal  to  the  charming  ones  of  the 
Neapolitan  gulf,  and  fuperior  to  all  others  that  I  have  ever 
feen.  Meflina  rifes  out  of  the  waves  like  a  grand  amphi- 
theatre ;  and  the  Faro,  lined  with  villages  and  towns, 
feems  a  noble  river,  winding  between  two  bold  mores. 

Sometimes,  but  rarely,  it  exhibits  a  very  curious  phseno- 
menon,  vulgarly  called  La  Fata  Morgana  *.  The  philoso- 
phical reader  will  find  its  caufes  and  operations  learnedly 
accounted  for  in  Kircher,  Minaii,  and  other  authors.  I 
mail  only  give  a  defcription  of  its  appearance,  from  one 
that  was  an  eye-witnefs.  Father  Angelucci  is  the  firft  that 
mentions  it  with  any  degree  of  accuracy,  in  the  following 
terms : 

"  On 


i6.  Cap.  Jug.  Dicfcura:r  Mercurius  ftans  d.  ramum.  f.  caduc.  ill. 
PHriNHN. 

17.  Cap.  Jug.  Diofcur.==Vir  nud.  ftans  d.  avem  &  ramum.  f.  arbo- 

rem.  IIII.  PHriNfiN. 

18.  Cap.   vir.  laur.   idolum  PliriNXlN.=Cap.  vir.   bur.   clava.   PH- 

riNXiN. 

19.  Cap.   Jug.  Apoll.  &  Dianje=Mul.   ftol.   ftans  d.  duas  fp>icas  f. 

bacul.  luna.  IIII.  PHTINI2N. 

20.  Fac.  leon.  —  Corona  RECI. 

21.  Fac.  lcon.  =  RECINON. 

*  The  name  is  probably  derived  from  an  opinion,  that  the  whole  fpeclade 
is  produced  by  a  Fairy  or  a  Magician.  The  populace  are  delighted  when- 
ever the  vifion  appears,  and  run  about  the  ftreets,  fhouting  for  joy, — calling 
every  body  out  to  partake  of  the  glorious  fight. 


•■>;, 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO, 

"  On  the  fifteenth  of  Auguft,  1643,  as  I  flood  at  my 
window,  I  was  furprifed  with  a  moft  wonderful,  deleg- 
able vifion.  The  fea  that  wafhes  the  Sicilian  fhore 
fwelled  up,  and  became,  for  ten  miles  in  length,  like  a 
chain  of  dark  mountains ;  while  the  waters  near  our 
Calabrian  coaft  grew  quite  fmooth,  and  in  an  inftant 
appeared  as  one  clear  polifhed  mirror,  reclining  againft 
the  aforefaid  ridge.  On  this  glafs  was  depicted,  in 
chiaro /euro,  a  firing  of  feveral  thoufands  of  pilafters,  all 
equal  in  altitude,  diftance,  and  degree  of  light  and  fhade. 
In  a  moment  they  loft  half  their  height,  and  bent  into 
arcades,  like  Roman  aqueducts.  A  long  cornice  was 
next  formed  on  the  top,  and  above  it  rofe  caftles  innu- 
merable, all  perfectly  alike.  Thefe  foon  fplit  into 
towers,  which  were  fhortly  after  loft  in  colonnades,  then 
windows,  and  at  laft  ended  in  pines,  cyprefTes,  and 
other  trees,  even  and  fimilar.  This  is  the  Fata  Mor- 
gana, which,  for  twenty-fix  years,  I  had  thought  a  mere 
fable." 

To  produce  this  pleafing  deception,  many  circumftances 
rauft  concur,  which  are  not  known  to  exift  in  any  other 
fituation.  The  fpectator  mult  fiand  with  his  back  to  the 
eaft,  in  fome  elevated  place  behind  the  city,  that  he  may- 
command  a  view  of  the  whole  bay  ;  beyond  which  the 
mountains  of  Meflina  rife  like  a  wall,  and  darken  the  back- 
ground of  the  picture.  The  winds  muft  be  hufhed  ;  the 
furface  quite  fmoothed  ;    the  tide   at  its  height ;   and  the 

waters 


JOURNEY    TO    REGGIO.  367 

waters  prefled  up  by  currents  to  a  great  elevation  in  the 
middle  of  the  channel.  All  thefe  events  coinciding,  as  foon 
as  the  fun  furmounts  the  eaftern  hills  behind  Rcggio,  and 
rifes  high  enough  to  form  an  angle  of  forty-five  degrees  on 
the  water  before  the  city, — every  object  exifting  or  moving 
at  Reggio  will  be  repeated  a  thoufand  fold  upon  this 
marine  looking-glafs ;  which,  by  its  tremulous  motion,  is, 
as  it  were,  cut  into  facets.  Each  image  will  pafs  rapidly 
off  in  fuccelTion,  as  the  day  advances,  and  the  ftream  carries 
down  the  wave  on  which  it  appeared. 

Thus  the  parts  of  this  moving  picture  will  vanim  in  the 
twinkling  of  an  eye.  Sometimes  the  air  is  at  that  moment 
fo  impregnated  with  vapours,  and  undifturbed  by  winds, 
as  to  reflect  objects  in  a  kind  of  aerial  fcreen,  rifing  about 
thirty  feet  above  the  level  of  the  fea.  In  cloudy,  heavy 
weather,  they  are  drawn  on  the  furface  of  the  water,  bor- 
dered with  fine  prifmatical  colours. 


3B 


(    363    ) 


JOURNEY 


FROM 


IEGGIO    to   NAPLES. 


SECTION     XLIX. 

TH  E  heat  I  had  experienced  in  Calabria  determined 
me  to  defer  my  voyage  to  Sicily  till  the  enfuing  win- 
ter. I  therefore  took  my  paffage  for  Gallipoli  in  a  French 
fhip  ready  to  fail  from  the  Straits ;  and  on  the  tvventy-fecond, 
about  funfet,  we  got  under  way.  A  heavy  Scirocco,  that 
rofe  in  the  night  off  Cape  Spartivento,  rendered  the  paffage 
unpleafant ;  but  carried  us  brifkly  and  fafely  to  our  deftined 
port,  where  we  arrived  on  the  twenty-fifth. 

Gallipoli  ftands  on  a  rocky  ifland,  joined  to  the  Con- 
tinent by  a  bridge,   near  which  flows  a  fountain  of  very 

pure 


JOURNEYTONAPLES.  369 

pure  water.  From  the  remoteft  antiquity  this  was  a  Station 
fo  favourable  to  commerce,  that  every  maritime  power 
wifried  to  fecure  it ;  and  it  is  certainly  a  reproach  to 
Government,  that  nothing  has  been  done  to  improve  its 
natural  advantages ; — at  prefent  it  has  neither  harbour  nor 
Shelter  for  (hipping.  Charles  the  Second  demolished  Galli- 
poli,  for  its  adherence  to  Frederick  of  Aragon.  The 
Venetians  treated  it  with  great  cruelty  in  the  fifteenth 
century;  and,  in  1481,  it  was  pillaged  by  the  Turks.  To 
preferve  it  from  future  calamities,  Charles  the  Fifth  repaired 
and  Strengthened  its  fortifications ;  and,  fince  that  period, 
it  has  enjoyed  the  benefits  of  peace  and  trade,  which  have 
rendered  it  the  moft  opulent  and  gayeSt  town  upon  the 
coaft.  Its  inhabitants  do  not  exceed  fix  thoufand  in  num- 
ber ;  but  they  are  eafy  in  their  circumStances,  lively,  and 
merry,  and  in  general  well-informed.  Confumptions  and 
/pitting  of  blood  are  rather  frequent  here,  occasioned  by  the 
great  fubtilty  of  the  air,  which  is  ventilated  from  every 
quarter.  The  buildings  are  tolerable,  and  fome  of  the 
churches  have  good  paintings. 

The  cotton  trade  brings  in  about  thirty  thoufand  ducats 
a-year.  Good  muilins,  cotton  Stockings,  and  other  parts 
of  apparel,  are  manufactured  here,  and  purchafed  by  the 
Provencals ;  for  Gallipoli  has  no  diredt,  trade  with  the 
metropolis.  Silk  and  Saffron  were  formerly  objects  of  traf- 
fic ;  but  heavy  duties  and  oppreflion  have  caufed  them  to 
be  abandoned.      The  wine  of  this  territory  is  good  ;  but 

3  B  2  from 


370  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

from  drynefs  of  climate,  and  fhallownefs  of  foil,  the  vintage 
frequently  fails  in  quantity  ;  and  then  the  Gallip  litans  have 
recourfe  to  Sicily  for  a  fupply.  Oil  is  the  great  i  ippOrt  of 
this  place : — two-thirds  of  the  produce  of  its  olive  planta- 
tions are  exported  to  France,  and  the  north  of  Italy  ;  the 
remainder  is  fent  to  Naples,  and  other  ports  of  the  king- 
dom. It  appears  by  the  books  of  the  Cuftom-houfe,  that 
in  1766*,  eleven  thoufand  four  hundred  and  fifty-nine 
falme  were  fhipped  off  for  national  markets,  and  thirty-five 
thoufand  four  hundred  and  ninety-three  falme  for  foreign 
ones.  This  quantity  cannot  be  valued  at  lefs  than  a  mil- 
lion of  ducats ;  but  the  profits  to  the  venders  are  much 
curtailed  by  a  duty  on  exportation. 

Neapolitan  merchants,  by  means  of  agents  fettled  at 
Gallipoli,  buy  up  the  oils,  from  year  to  year,  long  before 
an  olive  appears  upon  the  tree.  The  price  is  afterwards 
fettled  by  public  authority ;  a  mode  of  evaluation  extremely 
favourable  to  the  traders,  and  prejudicial  to  the  land-owner, 
who  is  attached  to  the  foil,  and  indeed  feldom  confidered 
by  Government.  The  Neapolitans  fell  their  oil  to  the 
merchants  of  Leghorn  ;  and,  if  faithfully  ferved  by  their 
factors  in  Terra  di  Otranto,   ought  to  double  their  capital 

*  I  fix  upon  1766,  as  being  the  year  mentioned  in  Reidefel's  evaluation, 
which  I  have  good  authority  for  corre&ing.  His  accounts  are,  one  thoufand 
three  hundred  and  ninety-five  lafts,  or  thirteen  thoufand  nine  hundred  and 
fifty  falme,  for  home  trade;  and  feventeen  thoufand  three  hundred  and 
twenty-three  lafts,  or  one  hundred  feventy-three  thoufand  two  hundred  and 
thirty  falme,  for  foreign  countries > 

m 


JOURNEY     TO     NAPLES.  371 

in  two  years.  But,  to  balance  this  advantage,  they  run 
great  rifles,  pay  exorbitant  intereft,  and  have  frequent 
bankruptcies  to  guard  againft. 

About  three  miles  clue  weft,  is  a  fmall  ifland,  level  with 
the  water,  almoft  barren.  Wherever  the  foil  is  deep 
enough,  it  produces  fhort  grafs,  renowned  for  giving  a  moft 
exquifite  flavour  to  mutton.  This  rock  is  a  very  conve- 
nient ftation  for  fifhing,  and  is  reforted  to  by  flocks  of  fea- 
fovvl. 

On  the  twenty-feventh,  I  fet  out  for  Naples ;  making  a 
little  deviation  from  the  direct  road,  to  fee  Nardo  and 
Otranto.  Near  Gallipoli,  cultivation  is  in  a  flourifliing 
ftate ;  though  the  rocks  are  very  fhallowly  covered  with 
earth.  In  this  province,  the  rent  of  arable  ground  varies 
prodigiously  ;  rather  according  to  the  degrees  of  population 
than  thofe  of  fertility.  For  example,— Brindifi  pofTefTes  a 
fpacious  territory,  rich  in  foil  and  natural  advantages,  free 
from  baronial  tenures  and  burthens :  yet  the  bed  of  its  land 
does  not  let  at  ten  millings  an  acre  ;  while  the  rocky  but 
well-peopled  Salentine  peninfula,  hampered  as  it  is  with  • 
feudal  claims  and  drawbacks,  gives  at  leafl:  double  the 
rent. 

The  olive-tree  is  here  attended  to  with  the  niceft  care,, 
and  no  trouble  fpared  to  increafe  its  fruitfulnefs,  or  revive 
prolific  vigour  in  plants  that  begin  to  feel  the  decay  of 
age.  In  winter,  the  peafants  bare  the  roots  of  the  old  trees, 
lay  upon  them  a  thin  coat  of  litter,  and  leave  them  thus, 

during 


372  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

during  four  months,  to  imbibe  the  reftorative  falts  of  the 
atmofphere.  Few  of  them  have  any  principal  bole  ;  for  all 
predominant  moots  are  early  cut  out,  that  every  part  may 
derive  equal  benefit  from  the  influence  of  the  fun.  Some 
huibandmen  only  Rir  the  earth  near  the  tree ;  others  plough 
all  the  interfaces,  and  raife  profitable  crops,  though  perhaps 
to  the  detriment  of  the  olive  plants.  In  this  province,  the 
fruit  is  neither  beaten  off  the  tree,  nor  gathered ;  but 
remains  till  it  falls  through  ripenefs. 

Don  Giovanni  Preita  has  proved  himfelf  a  zealous  and 
valuable  citizen  of  Gallipoli,  by  a  long  and  attentive 
courfe  of  experiments  upon  the  olive-tree,  its  fruit,  and  the 
method  of  making  oil,  with  a  view  of  increaiing  its  quan- 
tity, and  improving  its  quality.  The  common  mode  of 
making  oil,  is  to  crum  the  olives  to  a  parte,  with  a  per- 
pendicular mill-ftone  running  round  a  trough.  This  pafte 
is  put  into  flat  round  bafkets,  made  of  rufhes,  piled  one 
upon  another  under  the  prefs.  After  a  firft  preflure, 
fcalding  water  is  poured  into  each  bafket,  its  contents 
flirred  up,  and  the  operation  repeated  till  no  more  oil  can 
be  fkimmed  off  the  furface  of  the  tubs  beneath.  This 
method  is  liable  to  inconveniences;  for  the  oil  is  feldom 
pure — keeps  ill — and  foon  grows  rancid.  Don  Giovanni 
employs  other  ways  of  extracting  the  liquor,  which,  though 
feemingly  lefs  effectual  and  more  laborious,  he  thinks 
practice  will  prove  to  be  full  as  expeditious  as  the  mill,  and 
much  more  advantageous  to  the  vender,  by  the  goodnefs  of 

3  tne 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  373 

the  oil.    He  recommends  a  procefs,  performed  by  pounding 
the  fruit  in  a  mortar.     He  throws  a  handful  of  the  crufhed 
fubftance  into  a  long  woollen  bag,  which  he  rubs  very  hard 
upon  a  Hoping  board  ;   he  then  wrings  it  j  afterwards  adds 
hot  water,  and  continues   to  prefs,    as  long  as  a  drop  of  oil 
can  be  drawn  from  it.      This  he  fuppofes  to  have  been  the 
original  mode  of  extraction,   adopted  by  the  difcoverers  of 
oil ;   and,   if  performed  by  a  fkilful,   (tout  workman,    to  be 
much  more  effectual  than  the  common  one.     He  has  exa- 
mined the   different    fpecies   of  olive-trees   planted   in  his 
country,  and  appreciated  their  refpeclive  merits.     The  kind 
molt  commonly  cultivated,   and  of  oldeft  [landing  in  the 
province,  is   by  him   called  the   Salentine   Olive, — by   the 
peafant,  Ogliarola, — from  the  quantity  of  juice  yielded  by 
its  fruit.     A  fecorid  fort,   vulgarly  named  Faule,   of  which 
only  a  few  are  planted,   bears  a  fmall  olive  kept  for  eating. 
The  third  is  known  by  the  names. of  Cellina,  Scuranefe, 
and  Cafcia : — its  olives  give  lefs  oil  than  the  Salentine  kind, 
in  a  proportion  of  two  to  three ;   but  the  tree  grows  to  a 
greater  fize,  refills  weather  better,  and  is  alfo  more  fruitful, 
— for  which   reafon   it   obtains   the   preference  amonc  the 
planters.    He  tried  alfo  a  fourth  fpecies;  but  of  which  only- 
one  tree  exifts  in   his  neighbourhood,  and  that  a  wild  one. 
Contrary  to  the  nature  of  all  other  olives,  its  fruit  grows 
white  as  it  ripens  : — the  ancients   fpeak  of  fuch  a  kind. 
He  has  alfo  procured  fcions  of  the  beft  flocks  from  Tufcany. 
I  am  forry  to  add,  that  as  yet  his  efforts  have  been  merely 

fpeculativc, 


374:  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

fpeculative,  for  want  of  encouragement  from  thofe  who  alone 
can  promote  the  public  good  to  any  extent.   In  Puglia,  which 
abounds  with  cities  and   villages   belonging   to  the  Crown, 
and  therefore  more  wealthy  and  independent  than  Baronial 
manors, — thefe  trials   may  excite   emulation,  augment  the 
cultivation  ot  this  valuable  tree,  and  improve  the  manner  of 
making  oil,   to  the  great  emolument  of  King,  planter,   and 
merchant.     I  have  little  doubt  but,   with  (kill,  the  olives  of 
this  province  may  be  made  to  give  as  line  oil  as  thofe  of 
either  Provence  or   Lucca.      In   Calabria  the  cafe  is  more 
defperate  j — there   feudal    tyranny   reigns   paramount,    and 
effectually  clips  the  wings  of  induftry  : — there  the  cuftom 
of  the  manor  obliges  all  vaffals  to  grind  their  olives  at  the 
lord's   mills*,    though   their   number  is  not   equal   to   the 
bufinefs.      The  unfortunate  wretches  behold  their  fruit  rot, 
and  their  oil  evaporate  from   the  fermenting  heaps,  while 
they  muft  wait  the  preiling  of  the  olives  belonging  to  the 
Baron  and  his  leflees,  or  to  fuch  proprietors  as  can  afford 
to  bribe  the  millers. 

At  the  diftance  of  a  few  miles  from  the  town,  there 
is  a  good  deal  of  woodland,  where  fportfmen  find  very 
good  diverfion.  Gentlemen  hunt  hare,  fox,  and  fometimes 
wild  boar,  with  hounds  or  lurchers,  and  fometimes  with 
both.  In  autumn,  fowlers  ufe  nets,  fpringes,  or  birdlime; 
in  winter,   guns.      All  the  country  is  free  to  whoever  buys 

*  They  pay  for  every  grinding,  or  Macina,  two  carlini.     A  Macina  con-" 
fills  of  eight  bafkets,  of  thirty  Neapolitan  rotoli  each. 

2  the 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  375 

the  King's  licence,  except  fome  few  inclofures,  where  the 
Barons  endeavour  to  preferve  the  game.  Hawking  has  of 
late  years  been  quite  laid  afide. 


N 


SECTION      L. 

A  R  D  O  lies  nine  miles  north  of  Gallipoli ;  the  road 
to  it  good  and  pleafant,  with  a  fine  view  of  the  fea. 
In  this  little  city  are  eight  thoufand  inhabitants.  The 
fteeple  of  its  cathedral  is  built  in  a  very  uncommon,  but 
{hewy  ftile  of  Gothic  architecture.  Luca  Giordano  and 
Solimeni  have  adorned  the  church  with  fome  agreeable 
paintings.  This  place  was  part  of  the  Balzo  eftate.  The 
Aquavivas  were  the  next  poffeflbrs : — they  are  thought  to 
have  come  from  the  Marca  di  Ancona.  In  1401,  in  con- 
sideration of  their  relationiliip  to  Pope  Boniface  the  Ninth, 
Ladiflaus  erected  their  manor  of  Atri  into  a  dukedom  ;  an 
honour  till  then  feldom  granted  to  any  but  princes  of  the 
blood  royal  *.  Claudius  Aquavira,  a  famous  general  of 
the  Jefuits,   who  died  in  161 5,   was  of  this  family. 

*  Since  that  period,  honours  have  been  fo  lavifhly  beftowed,  that,  about 
the  beginning  of  the  laft  century,  the  Tingle  kingdom  of  Naples  reckoned 
fifty  Princes,  fixty-three  Dukes,  one  hundred  and  fix  Marquiffes,  and  fixty 
Earls ;  befides  Barons,  who  all  held  of  the  Crown  in  aipile,  and  took  their 
titles  from  their  fiefs. — In  1703,  the  numbers  were,  one  hundred  and 
twenty-four  Princes,  two  hundred  Dukes,  two  hundred  Marquifles,  and 
forty-three  Earls. 

3  C  The 


376  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

The  breadth  of  the  peninfula,  from  Nardo,  is  about 
thirty-five  miles :  the  road  through  an  open  country,  inter- 
fperfed  with  fome  coppices  of  a  fmall  jagged-leaved  oak. 
We  paiTed  near  many  villages ;  but  I  faw  nothing  in  any  of 
them  worth  my  attention.  As  we  approached  the  Adriatic, 
the  landfcape  grew  dreary,  from  the  great  quantity  of  loofe 
ftone  walls,  by  which  the  fields  are  divided.  Near  Otranto, 
the  gardens,  being  full  of  orange-trees,  have  a  more 
pleafing  appearance.  A  rivulet,  running  into  the  fea,  clofe 
to  the  walls,  ftill  retains  its  ancient  name  of  Hydro. 

Otranto  is  fmall,  (lands  on  a  hill,  and  contains  only  three 
thoufand  inhabitants.  Its  little  harbour  is  not  fo  bad,  but 
it  might  induce  more  people  to  fettle  here ;  as  no  port  on 
the  coafl:  lies  fo  convenient  for  traffic  with  Greece.  The 
Adriatic  Gulph  is  here  but  fixty  miles  wide.  I  climbed  to 
the  top  of  a  tower,  to  get  a  fight  of  the  Acroceraunian 
Mountains ;  but  a  vapour  hanging  over  the  fea,  along  the 
horizon,  hid  them  from  my  view :  in  a  clear  morning., 
their  fnowy  tops  are  faid  to  be  very  vifible.  7  he  cathedral 
of  Otranto  is  Gothic,  and,  according  to  the  Puglian  fafhion, 
has  its  fubterraneous  fanctuary.  The  columns  are  of  beau- 
tiful marbles  and  granite  ;  the  pavement,  a  rude  fpecies  of 
Mofaic,  commonly  called  Saracenic.  As  it  is  to  be  met 
with  in  all  churches  founded  by  the  Norman  Kings  of 
Sicily,  the  artifts  who  laid  it  were  probably  Saracens,  or  at 
leaft  Greeks,  their  fcholars. — Thefe  mofaics  are  compofed 
of  pieces  of  porphyry,  ferpentine,  and  cubes  of  gilt  glafs, — 
8  difpofed 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES,  ~  os 

dlfpofed  in  ftars,  circles,  or  checquers.     The  compartments 
of  the  flails  are  bordered  with  them ;  and  the  fmall  twifted 
columns,    which    fupport    the    pulpits   and    canopies,    are 
ornamented    with  a   fpiral  ftripe  of  the    fame    work.      It 
is  a  pity  fo  much  durability,   compaclnefs,   and  beauty  of 
materials,    mould   have   been   laviflied  on   fuch   barbarous 
defigns. — Otranto  was  a   Roman  colony,   as  is  certified  by 
an  infcription,   almoft  the  only  monument  of  antiquity  left 
there  *.    In  the  tenth  century,  it  was  made  an  archbimop's 
fee.     In    1480,    Laurence   de  Medici,   to  deliver  himfelf 
from  the  attacks  of  the  King  of  Naples,   perfuaded  Maho- 
met the  Second  to  invade  the  realm  ;  and  Otranto  was  the 
unfortunate   place   where   the  Turks  landed.      It  was   in- 
verted,  ftormed  and  pillaged.     Its  Prelate  was  flain  at  the 
door    of    his    church  ;     eight    hundred    principal    citizens 
dragged  out  of  the  gates,   and  butchered  ;   their  bodies  left 
twelve  months  unburied,   till  the  Duke  of  Calabria  retook 
the  city,  and  committed  them  to  hallowed  earth.     About 
a  hundred  years  after,  a  devout  perfon  affirmed,   that  thefe 
bones  had  appeared  to  him  in  a  dream ;  and,  upon  the 
flrength  "of  his  viiion,  they  became,  for  the  vulgar,  objects  of  al- 
moft  equal  veneration  with  the  relics  of  the  primitive  martyrs. 
I  was  entertained  in  the  evening  with  the  mufic  of  fome 
of  thofe  itinerant  performers,   that  play  at  Chriftmas  in  the 
ftreets    of   Rome  and    Naples.     Their    native   country   is 
Baftlicata,    where  the   inhabitants  of  the   Apennines  learn 

*  Num.  Hydr.— 7ER.  Caput  barb.  &  laureat.  rAPONTlNflN.-=  Trjdensj 
cum  duobus  ddphinibus. 

3  C  2  from 


pff  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES, 

from  their  infancy  to  wield  the  mattock  with  one  hand, 
and  the  flageolet  or  bagpipe  with  the  other.  In  thefe 
favages  of  Italy,  mufic  is  not  merely  an  art  of  paftime  or 
luxury,  but  a  talent  awakened  by  neceflity.  Their  ufual 
employment  is  hoeing  out  drains,  to  draw  the  water  off  the 
land ;  but  as  there  is  not  every  year,  nor  in  all  feafons,  a 
fuperabundance  of  rain,  they  take  up  their  mufical  inftru- 
ments  for  a  maintenance,  and,  in  fmall  parties,  travel  over 
Italy,  France,  and  Spain.  Some  have  penetrated  even  into 
America,  and  returned  from  thence  with  great  comparative 
riches,  earned  by  their  paftoral  melody.  Their  concerts  are 
generally  compofed  of  two  muficians,  who  play  on  very  long, 
large  bagpipes,  in  unifon  : — I  mean  as  to  the  tone,  becauie 
one  is  always  an  oclave  higher  than  the  other ;  while  a  third 
muncian  founds  a  kind  of  hautboy,  and,  at  the  end  of  each 
ritomel,  chants  a  rural  ditty,  to  which  the  bagpipes  play  an 
accompaniment.  The  airs  are  all  nearly  alike,  upon  the 
model  of  the  following  Paftorale  or  Siciliana. 

Largo. 

Ml  Ml 


-K-M-F-M-iF-lf 


E£EfcB 


mmmtsmm 


I 


mMmmmm 


■A 


jy 


j*  i 


im&Mibm^sm 


iHiiiiil 


The 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  379 

The  trifling  differences  depend  upon  a  greater  or  lefler 
vivacity  in  the  performers,  who  are  wont  to  embellifh  the 
common  tune  with  variations,  out  of  their  own  fancy. 
Every  air,  however,  is  compofed  of  two  characters ;  the 
ritornel  is  cheerful ;  the  vocal  part,  flow  and  mournful. 
The  inftruments  are  all  made  by  the  fhepherds  them- 
felves,  in  thofe  forms  and  iizes  which  tradition  has 
handed  down  to  them,  and  experience  has  taught  them  to 
imitate. 

My  route  to  Lecce  lay  by  the  fide  of  a  large  pond,  that 
communicates  with  the  fea.  All  around,  for  many  miles, 
reigns  one  entire  wafte,  productive  of  nothing  but  the 
holme  oak,  or  ilex  cocci/era.  Thefe  bufhes  were  in  full 
beauty,  covered  with  the  fcarlet  kermes,  or  falfe  cochineal, 
which  abounds  in  the  fame  fort  of  country,  in  Andalufia 
and  Languedoc.  The  Puglians  feem  ignorant  that  any  ufe 
can  be  made  of  this  fhrub,  except  feeding  their  cattle  with 
the  leaves  in  winter,  when  other  fodder  fails.  The  villages 
on  the  road  make  a  handfome  fhew,  being  built  of  white 
ftone ;  but  their  churches  are  ornamented  in  a  very  bar- 
barous ftile.  The  face  of  the  country  is  too  rocky,  and  too 
bare  of  trees,  corn,  and  grafs,  to  be  agreeable ;  and  the 
prodigious  number  of  (tone  walls  would  disfigure  a  much 
more  fruitful  one.  Near  the  end  of  our  ride,  which  was 
about  twenty-four  miles,  the  landfcape  became  more  lively^ 
from  a  great  quantity  of  gardens. 


Lecce, 


So  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

Lecce,  the  capital  of  Terra  di  Otranto,   the  feat  of  its 
tribunal,   and  the  fecond  city  in  the  kingdom, — is  better 
paved   and   built   than  any  town   in   the  province.      If  its 
architects  had  been  pofTefTed  of  the  fmalleft  gleam  of  tafte, 
the   buildings   would   have  made   a   noble  figure;    for  the 
ftone  of  the  country  is  of  a  fine  white,  fo  foft,  when  taken 
out  of  the  quarry,  that  it  may  be  moulded  like  wax,   and 
will  receive   any   form   the  flighted:  Itrckes  of  the  chiflH 
imprefs  it  with  ;  yet,  by  remaining  expofed  to  the  air,  very 
foon   acquires  a  proper  degree  of  confiftency.     No  mate- 
rials,   therefore,    can    be    more    deferable    for   ornamental 
mafonry,   or  more   fufceptible  of  regularity  and    nicety  of 
juncture.     But    the    fronts    of    the    principal    edifices   are 
crimped    into   fuch   crowded   uncouth   decorations,    that    I 
lamented    that   the  Grecian   arts  ever   returned    into    this 
country  :  for  the  architecture  of  the  Goths  and  Saracens, 
with  all  its  oddities,  is  the  very  perfection  of  beauty  and 
crood  fenfe,    when   compared    with    thefe    Corinthian    and 
Compofite   extravagances    at   Lecce.     The   cathedral    was 
erected  by  Tancred,  before  he  afcended   the  throne;   it  is 
dedicated  to  Saints  Cataldo  and  Nicholas,   one  of  which  is 
placed  on  a  mutilated  antique  column  in  the  great  fquare. 
This  fragment  was  brought  from  Brindifi,  where  its  com- 
panion  is   ftill   ftanding.      Many   of  the   paintings   in   the 
churches,   and   houfes  of  the  nobility,    are   by   Verrio,    a 
native  of  Lecce,    long  employed   in  England, — where  his 
ftaircafes    and   cielings    are   admired   for   their   perfpedtive 

deception, 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  3S1 

deception,  and  variety  of  figures,   though  deficient  in  cor- 
rectnefs,  choice,  and  other  requifites  of  the  art.      He  died 
in    1707. — The   number    of   inhabitants    does    not    reach 
thirteen    thoufand,    very   inadequate   to  the  extent   of  the 
city.      It  has  the  reputation  of  being,   to   the  reft  of  the 
kingdom,   what  Thebes  was  to   Greece  ;  and  a   native  of 
Lecce  is  faid  to  be  diftinguimable  from  his  fellow-fubjecls, 
by  the   heavinefs   of  his   manner,   and   the  dulnefs   of  his 
apprehenfton.      I  dare  not  be  fo  rafh  as  to  pronounce  upon 
this  point ;  having  had,  during  my  fliort  ftay  among  them, 
very  little  opportunity  of  converting  with  the  Leccians,   or 
appreciating  their  parts  and  learning.      But  I  cannot  ftifpect 
a  city  to  be   the  feat  of  ftupidity,  that  has  an  academy  of 
Belles  Lettres,  and  where  fome  of  the  Mufes  at  lead  meet 
with   very   fincere  and    fuccefsful   admirers.     Though    the 
academy,    from   a  want   of  royal   protection,    and   proper 
directors,   has  of  late  confined  its  exertions  to  fonnets,  and 
other  abfurd  ebullitions  of  fancy  ;  yet  mufic  is  here  culti- 
vated with  a  degree  of  enthufiafm.      Many  of  the  nobility 
are  good  performers,  and  proud  of  exhibiting  their  fkill  on 
fblemn  festivals.     The  Leccian  mufic  has  a  very  plaintive 
character,   peculiar  to  itfelf.      The  Dilettanti  fing  ftanzas  to 
the  following  tune,  which  is  a  fpecimen  of  their  ftyle ;  and 
I  have  frequently  heard  Improvifatori  chant  their  extempore 
vcrfes  to  it   . 

*  Don  Luigi  Serb  of  Naples  is  a  very  great  genius  in  that  line^  and 
much  fuperior  to  the  celebrated  Corilla,  fo  well  known  to  all  the  Englifa 
that  have  been  at  Florence. 


5H 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

1  _     * 


okjvi  w  t  *  R 

iiiiiiiSiiiipfc^ 


^ 


5    +    +    3  6      S 

3     i    2    8  4-3 


aEE 


:fi: 


lEZZjE 


czzrezzz] 


gisssggi 


KB 


i  6      +      3  i  5 

iSiiiiiiiiiiiiii 


At  or  near  Lecce,  was  the  Roman  colony  of  Lupise. 
Some  geopraphers  confound  it  with  Rudise,  the  birth-place 
of  Ennius,  who  flourifhed  about  two  hundred  years  before 
Chrift,  and  compofed  feveral  poems,  of  which  only  frag- 
ments have  efcaped  the  ravages  of  time. 

Very  foon  after  the  eftablifhment  of  the  Normans,  Earls 
were  enfeoffed  with  the  manor  of  Lecce.  The  daughter  of 
one  of  them  bore  to  the  eldeft  fon  of  King  Roger  a  natural 
fon,  called  Tancred,  who  came  at  length  to  be  King  of 
the  Two  Sicilies.  Before  his  election  to  the  crown,  he 
enjoyed  the  eftate  of  his  maternal  anceftors,  and  was  a  great 
benefactor  to  this  city.  His  daughter  Albiria  transferred 
the  earldom  to  her  hufband  Walter  de  Brienne,  and  the 
heirefs  of  the  Briennes  married  C.  de  Engenio.  Mary,  the 
laft  of  that  family  was  given  in  marriage  by  Lewis  of  Anjou, 
to  Raymond  Orfino  the  fortunate  adventurer,  who  after- 
wards became  Prince  of  Taranto.  On  the  failure  of  his 
7  pofterity, 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  383 

pofterity,  Lecce  fell,  with  the  reft  of  their  property,  into 
the  hands  of  the  Crown. 

From  Lecce  it  is  twenty-four  miles  to  Brindifi,  through 
an  ugly  traft  of  land,  thinly  peopled  and  poorly  cultivated. 
The  unfilled  part  is  over-run  with  beautiful  fhrubs.  As 
we  advanced,  the  country  rather  improved  upon  us,  but 
ftill  bore  the  marks  of  mifery  and  depopulation. 


SECTION     LI. 

"OR1ND1SI  is  a  great  city,  if  the  extent  of  its  walls  be 
confidered ;  but  the  inhabited  houfes  do  not  fill 
above  half  the  inclofure.  The  ftreets  are  crooked  and 
rough,  the  buildings  poor  and  ruinous ;  no  very  remarkable 
church  or  edifice.  The  cathedral,  dedicated  to  St.  Theodore, 
is  a  work  of  King  Roger,  but  not  equal  in  point  of  archi- 
tecture to  many  churches  founded  by  that  monarch,  who 
had  a  ftrong  paffion  for  building.  The  canons  of  this 
church  retain  the  ancient  cuftom  of  having  handmaids ; 
but  as  they  take  care  to  choofe  them  of  canonical  age  and 
face,  we  may  fuppofe  thefe  Focaria?  to  be  only  chafte  repre- 
fentatives  of  the  helpmates  allowed  to  the  clergy  before 
Popes  and  Councils  had  reprobated  them.  Thefe  women  are 
exempted  from  taxes,  and  enjoy  many  privileges.  When 
they  die,  they  are  buried  gratis,  and  the  funeral  is  attended 

3D  by 


384  JOURNEYTONAPLES. 

by  the  Chapter  with   great   folemnity ;   which  is  a  mark  of 
refpect  it  does  not  pay  to  any  relations  of  the  canons. 

Near  the  port  ftand  the  walls  of  a  palace  erected  by 
Walter  de  Brienne,  in  a  very  bad  tafte.  Its  materials  are 
grey  ftone,  divided  at  regular  diftances  with  broad  courfes  of 
black  marble*.  Little  remains  of  ancient  Brundufium, 
except  innumerable  broken  pillars,  fixed  at  the  corners  of 
ftreets  to  defend  the  houfes  from  carts;  fragments  of  coarfe 
Mofaic,  the  floors  of  former  habitations;  'the  column  of  the 
light-houfe;  a  large  marble  bafon3  into  which  the  water  runs 
from  brazen  heads  of  deer;  fome  infcriptions,  ruins  of  aque- 
ducts, coins,  and  other  fmall  furniture  of  an  antiquary's 
cabinet.  Its  caftle,  built  by  the  Emperor  Frederick  the 
Second  to  protect  the  northern  branch  of  the  harbour,  is 
large  and  ftately.     Charles  the  Fifth  repaired  it. 

The  port  is  double,  and  the  fineft  in  the  Adriatic.  The 
outer  part  is  formed  by  two  promontories,  that  flretch  off 
gradually  from  each  other  as  they  advance  into  the  fea, 
leaving  a  very  narrow  channel  at  the  bafe  of  the  angle.  The 
ifland  of  St.  Andrew,  on  which  Alphonfus  the  Firfr.  built  a 
fortrefs,  lies  between  the  capes,  and  fecures  the  whole  road 
from  the  fury  of  the  waves.  In  this  triangular  fpace,  large 
mips  may  ride  at  anchor.  At  the  bottom  of  the  bay  the 
hills  recede  in  a  femicircular  fhape,  to  leave  room  for  the 
inner-haven,   which,  as  it  were,  clafps  the  city  in  its  arms, 

*  Thefe  walls  have  been  fince  pulled  down,  and  employed  in  the  facing  of 
the  new  canal. 

or 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  385 

or  rather  encircles  it,  in  the  figure  of  a  flag's  head  and 
horns.  This  form  is  faid  to  have  given  rife  to  the  name  of 
Brundufium,  which,  in  the  old  Mefiapian  language,  fignified 
the  head  of  a  deer.  I  think  it  probable  that  this  harbour 
was  produced  by  an  earthquake,  which  caufed  the  ground 
to  fink,  and  the  waters  to  run  into  the  chafm ;  for  all  the 
hills  round  it  are  on  an  exacl  level,  and  have  parallel  cor- 
refpondent  ftrata.  Nothing  can  be  more  beautiful  than  this 
interior  port,  or  better  adapted  to  every  purpofe  of  trade 
and  navigation.  It  is  very  deep,  and  extends  in  length  two 
miles  and  a  half,  in  breadth  twelve  hundred  feet  in  the 
wideft  part.  The  hills  and  the  town  fhelter  it  on  every  fide. 
The  north  ridge  is  prettily  cultivated  and  planted,  but  that 
to  the  fouth  is  bare  of  wood,  and  all  fown  with  corn.  In 
ancient  days,  the  communication  between  the  two  havens 
was  marked  by  lights  placed  upon  columns  of  the  Corin- 
thian order,  ftanding  on  a  riling  ground,  in  a  direcl:  line 
with  the  channel.  Of  thefe  one  remains  entire  upon  its 
pedeftal*.  Its  capital  is  adorned  with  figures  of  Syrens  and 
Tritons,  intermingled  with  the  Acanthus  leaf,  and  upon  it 
is  a  circular  vafe,  which  formerly  held  the  fire.  A  mo- 
dern infcription  has  been  cut  upon  the  plinth.  Near  it  is 
another  pedeftal  of  fimilar  dimenfions,  with  one  piece 
of  the  fhaft  lying  on  it.  The  reft  of  the  column  was  fold 
to  the  people  of  Lecce  after  the  earthquake  of  1456,  which 

*  It  is  of  the  fort  of  green  and  white  marble  called  Cipollino. 

3  D  2  threw 


335  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

threw  it  down,   and  deftroyed  great  part  of  the  city.      The 
fpace  between  thefe  pillars  anfwered  to  the  entrance  of  the 
harbour.     The  whole  kingdom  of  Naples  cannot  {hew  a 
more   complete   iituation   for    trade    than    Brindifi.      Here 
goodnefs  of  foil,  depth  of  water,  fafety  of  anchorage,  and  a 
centrical   pofition,  are   all  united;  yet  it  has  neither  com- 
merce,  hufbandry,   nor   populoufnefr.      From  the  obftruc- 
tions  in  the  channel,  which  communicates  with  the  two 
havens,   arifes  the  tribe  of  evils  that  afflict  and  defolate  this 
unhappy  town.     Julius  Casfar  may  be  faid  to  have  begun  its 
ruin,  by  attempting  to  block  up  Pompey's  fleet.     He  drove 
piles  into  the  neck  of  land  between  the  two  ridges  of  hills; 
threw  in  earth,  trees,   and  ruins  of  houfes;   and  had  nearly 
accomplifhed   the   blockade,  when  Pompey  failed  out  and 
efcaped   to  Greece.     In  the  fifteenth  century,   the  Prince 
of  Taranto  funk  fome  mips  in  the  middle  of  the  paflage,  to 
prevent  the   royalifts  from  entering  the  port,  and  thereby 
provided   a   refting- place   for    fea- weeds    and    fand,  which 
ibcn  accumulated,   choked  up  the  mouth,   and  rendered  it 
impracticable  for  any  veflels  whatfoever.     In  1752,  the  evil 
was  increafed,  fo  as  to  hinder  even  the  waves  from  beating 
through;  and  all  communication  was  cut  off,  except  in  vior 
lent  eafterly  winds,   or  rainy  feafons,   when  an  extraordinary 
quantity  of  frefh  water  raifes  the  level.      From  that  period 
the   port  became  a  fetid  green  lake,   full  of  infe&ion  and 
noxious  infects ;  no   flfh  but  eels  could  live  in  it,  nor  any 
boat  ply  except  canoes  made  of  a  Angle  tree.     They  can 

hold 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  387 

hold  but  one  perfon,   and  overfet  with  the  leaft  irregularity 
of  motion.      The    low  grounds   at   each   end   were  over- 
sowed  and   converted  into   marfhes,   the  vapours  of  which 
created  every  fummer  a  real  peftilenee,  and,  in   the  courfe 
of  very  few  years,  fwept  ofF,  or  drove  away,  the  large!}  por- 
tion  of  the  inhabitants.      From    the    number  of   eighteen 
thoufand,  they  were  reduced  in  1766  to  that  of  five  thoufand 
livid  wretches,   tormented  with  agues  and  malignant  fevers. 
in   1775  above  fifteen   hundred   perfons   died   durin?    the 
autumn; — A  woful  change  of  climate!     Thirty  years  ago, 
the  air  of  Brindifi  was  efteemed  fo  wholefome  and  balfamic, 
that  the  convents  of  Naples  were  wont  to  fend  their  coa- 
fumptive  friars  to  this  city  for  the  recovery  of  their  health. 
This  ftate  of  mifery  and  deftrudlion  induced  the  remaining 
citizens  to  apply  for  relief  to  Don  Carlo  Demarco,  one  of 
the  King's  minifters,    and  a  native  of  Brindifi.      In  confe.- 
quence  of  this  application,    Don  Vito  Caravelli  was  ordered 
to  draw  up  plans,  and  fix  upon  the  means  of  opening  the 
port  afrefh.      Don  Andrea  Pigonati  was   laft   year  fent  to 
execute  Ms  projects ;   and  by  the  help  of  machines,  and  the 
labour  of  the  galley- flaves,  has  fucceeded  in  fome  meafure. 
The   channel   has   been  partly  cleared,   and    has  now  two 
fathom  of   water.     It  can  admit  large  boats,   a  great  ftep 
towards  the  revival  of  trade;   but  what  is  of  more  imme- 
diate importance,  it  gives  a  free  pafiage  to  the  fea,   which 
now  ru flies  in  with  impetuofity,  and  runs  out  again  at  each 
tide;  fo  that  the  water  of  the  inner  port  is  fet  in  motion*, 

and- 


■  S8  TOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

and  once  more  rendered  wholefome.  The  canal,  or  gut, 
is  to  be  feven  hundred  yards  long,  and  drawn  in  a  (trait 
line  from  the  column.  At  prefent,  its  parapets  are  defend- 
ed by  piles  and  fafcines ;  but  if  the  original  plan  be  purfued, 
ftone  piers  will  be  erected  on  both  fides.  Don  Andrea, 
who  received  me  with  great  politenefs  and  hofpitality,  has 
the  fuccefs  of  this  undertaking  extremely  at  heart ;  and  as 
he  fpares  no  pains,  has  money  enough  for  his  calls,  and 
feems  to  be  very  well  verfed  in  his  profeflion,  it  is  to  be 
hoped  the  patriotic  wifries  of  his  employers  will  not  prove 
vain  and  delufory.  If  the  defence  againft  the  fea  be  fuffi- 
cient,  and  a  proper  method  be  followed  for  turning  off  the 
load  of  fand  which  every  tide  brings  in,  and  naturally  tends  to 
depofit  where  the  current  draws  it,  this  work  will  remain 
an  honour  to  the  Minifter  by  whofe  direction  it  was  under- 
taken, and  to  the  engineers  who  have  fuperintended  it  j  but 
it  appeared  to  me,  upon  examining  every  thing  very  atten- 
tively, rather  doubtful  whether  the  work  be  properly  fecured 
againft  accidents,  and  whether  a  very  confiderable  annual 
expence  will  not  be  neceffary  to  keep  it  in  order  *, 

When  the  canal  fhall  be  fcooped  out  to  a  proper  depth, 
and  its  -piers  folidly  eftabliflied,  veffels  of  any  burden  may 
once  more  enter  this  land-locked  port,   which  affords  room 

*  I  am  forry  to  find,  by  the  laft  accounts  I  have  received  from  that  country, 
that  the  parapets  have  proved  too  weak  to  refift  the  violence  of  the  fea;  that 
much  damage  has  already  been  done,  and  great  part  of  the  channel  once 
more  choked  with  fand. 

for 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  389 

for  a  whole  navy.  Docks  wet  and  dry  may  be  dug,  goods 
may  be  fhipped  at  the  quay,  and  convenient  watering- 
places  be  made  with  great  eafe.  If  merchants  fhould  think 
it  a  place  of  rifing  trade,  and  worthy  of  their  notice,  there 
is  no  want  of  fpace  in  the  town  for  any  factory  whatever. 
Circulation  of  cadi  would  give  vigour  to  hufbandry,  and 
provifions  would  foon  abound  in  this  market.  The  fands 
at  the  foot  of  the  hills,  which  form  the  channel,  are  to  be 
laid  out  in  beds  for  mufcles  and  oyfters.  Some  eccleiiaftics 
are  railing  nurferies  of  orange  and  lemon  trees ;  and  other 
citizens  intend  introducing  the  cultivation  of  mulberry-trees, 
and  breeding  of  filk-worms. 

The  Engineer  would  have  done  very  little  for  the  health 
of  Brindiii,  had  he  only  opened  a  paffage,  and  given  a  free 
courfe  to  the  waters ;  the  marfhes  at  each  extremity  of  the 
harbour  would  ftill  have  infected  the  air ;  he  therefore,  at 
the  expence  of  about  a  thoufand  ducats,  had  the  fens  filled 
up  with  earth,  and  a  dam  raifed  to  confine  the  waters,  and 
prevent  their  flowing  back  upon  the  meadows.  The  people 
of  Brindifi,  who  are  feniible  of  the  bleflings  already  derived 
from  thefe  operations,  who  feel  a  return  of  health,  and  fee 
an  opening  for  commerce  and  opulence,  feem  ready  to 
acknowledge  the  obligation.  They  intend  to  erect  a  ftatue 
to  the  King,  with  infcriptions  on  the  pedeftal  in  honour  of. 
the  Minifter  and  Agents. 

The  workmen,  in  cleaning  the  channel,  have  found  fome 
medals  and  feals,  and  have  drawn  up  many  of  the  piles  that 

2  were 


39o  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

were  driven  in  by  Caefar.  They  are  fmall  oaks  dripped  of 
their  bark,  and  ftill  as  frefh  as  if  they  had  been  cut  only  a 
month,  though  buried  above  eighteen  centuries  feven  feet 
under  the  fand. 

The  foil  about  the  town  is  light  and  good.  It  produces 
excellent  cotton  with  which  the  Brindifians  manufacture 
gloves  and  flockings. 

S  E  C  T  I   ON     LIL 

TT  is  impoflible  to  determine  who  were  the  founders  of 
Brundufium,  or  when  it  was  firft  inhabited*.  The  Ro- 
mans took  early  pofieflion  of  a  harbour  fo  convenient  for 
their  enterprizes  againft  the  nations  dwelling  beyond  the 
Adriatic.  In  the  five  hundred  and  ninth  year  of  Rome 
they  fent  a  colony  hither.  Pompey  took  refuge  here ;  but 
finding  his  poft  untenable,  made  a  precipitate  retreat  to 
Greece.  In  this  city  Oclavianus  firft  aflumed  the  name  of 
C?efar,  and  here  he  concluded  one  of  his  fhort-lived  peaces 
with  Antony.  Brundufium  had  been  already  celebrated 
for  giving  birth  to  the  tragic  poet  Pacuvius,  and  about  this 
time  became  remarkable  for  the  death  of  Virgil.      The  Bar- 

*  Nummi  Brnndufmorum. 
JER.   i.  Cap.  Herculis  imb.  pel.  leon.  tecl.—  Homo  nudus  delp.  inequ.  d. 
delp.  f.  lyr.  ten.  BPENdHSINftN. 

2.  Cap.  barb.  laur.  i  glob.  =  Homo  nud.  dclp.  ineq.  b.  lyram.  i  glob. 

BRTN. 

3.  Cap.  barb.  laur.  pone  vi£t.  cor.   imp.  tridens  1  glob.=Homo  nud. 

delp.  ine.  d.  Victor,  f.  cornuc.  chva.  1  glob.  BRTN. 

barians, 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  39, 

barians,  who  ravaged  every  corner  of  Italy,  did  not  fpare  (6 
rich  a  town ;  and  in  eight  hundred  and  thirty-fix,  the 
Saracens  gave  a  finifhing  blow  to  its  fortunes.  The  Greek 
Emperors,  fenfible  of  the  necefiity  of  having  fuch  a  port  as 
this  in  Italy,  would  have  reftored  it  to  its  ancient  ftrength 
and  fplendour,  had  the  Normans  allowed  them  time  and 
leifure.  The  Greeks  itruggled  manfully  to  keep  their  ground  ; 
but,  after  many  varieties  of  fuccefs,  were  finally  driven  out 
of  Brindifi  by  William  the  Firft. 

The  phrenzy  for  expeditions  to  Paleftine,  though  it 
drained  other  kingdoms  of  their  wealth  and  fubjects,  con- 
tributed powerfully  to  the  re-eftablimment  of  this  city,  one 
of  the  ports  where  pilgrims  and  warriors  took  fhipping.  It 
alio  benefited  by  the  refidence  of  the  Emperor  Frederick, 
whofe  frequent  armaments  for  the  Holy  Land  required  his 
prefence  at  this  place  of  rendezvous.  The  lofs  of  Jerufa- 
lem,  the  fall  of  the  Grecian  empire,  and  the  ruin  of  all  the 
Levant  trade  after  the  Turks  had  conquered  the  Eaft, 
reduced  Brindifi  to  a  ftate  of  inactivity  and  defolation,  from 
which  it  has  never  been  able  to  emerge. 

As  I  was  now  in  the  country  of  the  Tarantula,  I  was 
defirous  of  inveftigating  minutely  every  particular  relative 
to  that  infect ;  but  the  feafon  was  not  far  enough  advanced, 
and  no  Tarantati  *  had  begun  to  ftir.  I  prevailed  upon  a 
woman,  who  had  formerly  been  bitten,  to  act  the  part,  and 

*  Perfons  bitten,  or  pretending  to  be  bitten,  by  the  Tarantula. 

3  E  dance 


392  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

dance  the  Tarantata  before  me.  A  great  many  muiicians 
were  fummoned,  and  me  performed  the  dance,  as  all  pre- 
fent  aflured  me,  to  perfection.  At  firft:,  me  lolled  ftupidly 
on  a  chair,  while  the  inftruments  were  playing  fome  dull 
mufic.  They  touched,  at  length,  the  chord  fuppofed  to 
vibrate  to  her  heart,  and  up  fhe  fprang  with  a  mod  hideous 
yell,  ftaggered  about  the  room  like  a  drunken  perfon, 
holding  a  handkerchief  in  both  hands,  railing  them  alter- 
nately, and  moving  in  very  true  time.  As  the  mufic  grew 
brifker,  her  motions  quickened,  and  fhe  fkipped  about  with 
great  vigour  and  variety  of  fteps,  every  now  and  then 
fhrieking  very  loud.  The  fcene  was  far  from  pleafant; 
and,  at  my  defire,  an  end  was  put  to  it  before  the  woman 
was  tired.  Wherever  the  Tarantati  are  to  dance,  a  place  is 
prepared  for  them,  hung  round  with  bunches  of  grapes  and 
ribbons.  The  patients  are  drefled  in  white,  with  red, 
green,  or  yellow  ribbons,  for  thofe  are  their  favourite  colours; 
on  their  moulders  they  cafl:  a  white  fcarf,  let  their  hair  fall 
loofe  about  their  ears,  and  throw  their  heads  as  far  back 
as  they  can  bear  it.  They  are  exact  copies  of  the  ancient 
prieftefTes  of  Bacchus.  The  orgies  of  that  God,  whofe 
worfhip  *,  under  various  fymbols,  was  more  widely 
fpread  over  the  globe  than  that  of  any  other  divinity,  were, 
no    doubt,    performed    with    energy    and   enthufiafm     by 

*  I  {hall  fay  nothing  more  on  the  fubjefl  of  this  univerfal  worfhip,  as  it 
is  treated  in  a  mod  ingenious  and  fatisfadory  manner  by  Mr.  D'Ancarville, 
•who  will  foon  favour  the  Public  with  his  Work. 

the 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

the  lively  inhabitants  of  this  warm  climate.     The  intro- 
duction of  Chriftianity  abolimed  all  public  exhibitions  of 
thefe  heathenifli  rites,  and  the  women  durft  no  longer  act  a 
frantic  part  in  the  character  of  Bacchantes.     Unwilling  to 
give   up   fo   darling    an    amufement,    they   devifed    other 
pretences;  and  pofTeflion  by  evil  fpirits  may  have  furnimed 
them  with  one.     Accident  may  alfo   have   led  them   to  a 
difcovery  of  the  Tarantula;   and,  upon  the  ftrength  of  its 
poifon,  the  Puglian  dames  ftill  enjoy  their  old  dance,  though 
time  has  effaced  the  memory  of  its  ancient  name  and  insti- 
tution ;   and   this  I  take  to  be  the  origin  of  fo   ftrange  a 
practice.     If  at  any  time  thefe  dancers  are  really  and  in- 
voluntarily affected,  I  can  fuppofe  it  to  be  nothing  more 
than  an  attack  upon   their  nerves,  a  fpecies  of  St.  Vitus's 
dance.     I  incline  the  more  to  the  idea,   as  there  are  num- 
berlefs  churches  and  places  throughout  thefe  provinces  dedi- 
cated  to   that   faint.      Many  fenfible   people   of  this  town 
differ   in  opinion   from    Doctor   Serao   and   other   authors, 
who  have  ridiculed  the   pretended  diforder,  and  affirmed, 
that  the  venom  of  this  fpecies   of  fpider  can  produce  no 
effects    but    fuch    as    are    common    to    all    others.       The 
Brindifians  fay,  that  the  Tarantulas  fent  to  Naples  for  the 
experiment  were  not  of  the  true  fort,    but  a  much  larger 
and  more  innocent  one;   and  that  the  length  of  the  journey, 
and  want  of  food,  had  weakened  their  power  fo  much,  as  to 
fuffer  the  Doctor,  or  others,   to  put  their  arm  into  the  bag 
where  they  were  kept,  with  impunity.     They  quote  many 

3  E   2  examples 


593 


394  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

examples  of  perfons  bitten  as  they  flept  out  in  the  fields 
during  the  hot  months,  who  grew  languid,  ftupid,  deprived 
of  all  courage  and  elafticity,  till  the  found  of  fome  favourite 
tune   roufed   them    to   dance,   and  throw  off  the   poifon. 
Thefe    arguments  of    theirs   had    little    weight   with    me, 
for  they  acknowledged  that  elderly  perfons  were  more  fre- 
quently infected  than  young  ones,  and   that   moft  of  them 
were  women,  and  thofe  unmarried.     No  perfon  above  the 
loweft  rank  in  life  was  ever  feized  with  this  malady,  nor  is 
there  an  inftance  of  its  caufing  death.     The  length  of  the 
dance,  and  the  patient's  powers  of  bearing  fuch  exceffive 
fatigue  in  the  canicular  feafon,  prove  nothing;  becaufe  every 
day,  at  that  time  of  the  year,  peafants  may  be  feen  dancing 
with   equal   fpirit  and   perfeverance,  though  they  do  not 
pretend  to  be  feized  with  the  Tarantifm.     The  illnefs  may 
therefore  be  attributed  to  hyfterics,  exceflive  heat,  ftoppage 
of  perfpiration,  and  other  effects  of  fleeping  out  of  doors  in 
a  hot  fummer  air,   which  is  always  extremely  dangerous,  if 
not  mortal,   in  moft  parts  of  Italy.     Violent  exercife  may 
have  been  found  to  be  a  certain  cure  for  this  diforder,  and 
continued  by  tradition,  though  the  date  and  circumftances 
of  this  difcovery  have   been  long  buried  in   oblivion ; — a 
natural    paflion    for    dancing,    imitation,    cuftom   of    the 
country,  and  a  defire  of  railing  contributions  upon  the  fpec- 
tators,  are  probably  the  real  motives  that  infpire  the  Tarantati. 
Before  Serao's  experiments,  the  Tarantula  had  been  proved 

to 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  395 

to  be  harmlefs,  from  trials  made  in  1693  by  Clarizio,  and 
in  1740  at  Lucera  by  other  naturalifts. 

The  Tarantula  is  a  fpider  of  the  third  fpecies  of  Lin- 
nasus's  fourth  family,  with  eight  eyes  placed  four,  two  and 
two ;  its  colour  commonly  a  very  dark  grey,  but  varies 
according  to  age  and  food.  The  bulk  of  its  fore- part  is 
almofl:  double  that  of  the  hind  part;  the  back  of  its  neck 
raifed  high,  and  its  leg  fhort  and  thick.  It  lives  in  bare 
fields,  where  the  lands  are  fallow,  but  not  very  hard;  and, 
from  its  antipathy  to  damp  and  made,  choofes  for  its  re- 
fidence  the  riling  part  of  the  ground  facing  the  eaft.  Its 
dwelling  is  about  four  inches  deep,  and  half  an  inch  wide; 
at  the  bottom  it  is  curved,  and  there  the  infect  fits  in  wet 
weather,  and  cuts  its  way  out,  if  water  gains  upon  it.  It 
weaves  a  net  at  the  mouth  of  the  hole.  Thefe  fpiders  do 
not  live,  quite  a  year.  In  July  they  fhed  their  ikin,  and 
proceed  to  propagation,  which,  from  a  mutual  diftrufr,  as 
they  frequently  devour  one  another,  is  a  work  undertaken 
with  great  circumfpeclion.  They  lay  about  feven  hundred 
and  thirty  eggs,  which  are  hatched  in  the  fpring ;  but  the 
parent  does  not  live  to  fee  her  progeny,  having  expired  early 
in  the  winter.  The  Ichneumon  fly  is  their  moft  formidable 
enemy.  3 


396  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 


SECTION     LIU. 

(~\  N  leaving  Brindifi,  I  paffed  by  the  well  at  the  head  of 
the  haven,  which  fupplies  the  town  with  water.  The 
view  from  this  point  takes  in  the  port,  column,  a  large 
palm-tree,  churches,  and  caftles,  all  objects  of  great  pic- 
turefque  beauty. 

At  a  few  miles  diftance,  the  Trajan  way  is  eafily 
traced  as  it  croffes  a  hollow.  It  is  raifed  to  a  level 
upon  arches,  built  in  the  reticular  or  lofengy  manner. 
Moft  of  this  day's  journey  to  Monopoli,  although  forty- 
three  miles  long,  was  near  the  coaft,  through  a  wild 
country  covered  with  varieties  of  ever-green  fhrubs.  The 
fmall  portion  of  ground  in  cultivation  is  fown  with 
beans;  but  there  is  a  cruel  enemy  that  every  year  deftroys 
the  beft  part  of  the  crop:  this  is  the  Orobanche  or 
Broom  Rape,  a  parafite  weed  that  moots  up  with  beans, 
and  other  leguminous  plants,  mixes  its  roots  with  theirs, 
and,  by  drawing  out  all  the  nutriment,  caufes  them  to 
droop,  pine,  and  die.  The  Pugliefe  call  it  La  Sporchia. 
All  their  efforts  to  eradicate  it  have  hitherto  proved  in- 
effectual ;  but  I  fufpect  they  have  gone  very  fuperficially  to 
work. 

At 


> 


If  % 


9 


IP 
in 


■  |b 


a, 


* 


5fc 


M 


3  ^  g 


r 


> 


§ 


1 1 


I    8, 

!    £ 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  397 

At  Bari  I  took  the  inland  road  by  the  ancient  Via  Egna- 
tiana,  which  Horace  travelled  upon.      We  flept  at  Bitonto*, 
a  fine  town  of  fixteen  thoufand  inhabitants,  much  eafier  in 
their   fortunes,  and  more   polifhed  and  improved  in  their 
manners,  than  thofe  that  dwell  in  the  cities  along  the  coaft; 
its  markets  are  well  fupplied,  and  an  air  of  affluence  reigns 
in   the  place.     The  country  between  it  and  Bari,   which  is 
nine  miles  diftant,  is  very  much  inclofed;  and,  though  ftony, 
fertile  in  corn,  almonds,  olives,  wine,  and  fruit  of  all  kinds. 
I  found  there  was  a  general  cry  of  famine  throughout  the 
country  ;   but  it  was  a  want  of  fnow,  not  of  bread,  that  was 
complained  of.      Near  this  city  an  obelifk  was  erecled  by  the 
prefent   King  of  Spain,   with  four   fulfome  infcriptions  in 
praife    of  himielf,   his  father  Philip,   his  foldiers,    and  the 
Count  of  Mortemar,   who  was  honoured  with  the  title  of 
Duke  of  Bitonto  for  having  defeated  the  Auftrians  on  this 
fpot  in  1734-.     The  engagement  was  a  very  trifling  one; 
but  as  it  cleared  the  kingdom  of  Germans,  proved  of  effen- 
tial  fervice  to  the  Spaniards.     If  the  King  wifhes  to  tranfmit 
this  event  to  pofterity  by  a  monument,  he  muft  build  fome- 
thing  more  durable,  for  the  prefent  one  is  already  disjointed, 
and   crumbling  to  ruin.     A  moft  difagreeable   flony  road 
brought  us  to  Ruvo,  through  a  vine  country.     The  pome- 
granate hedges  in  flower,  and  the  holme  oak  loaded  with 

*  Nummi  Butont. 
JER.  1.  Cap.  Palladis  =  Arifta  BTTONTINX1N. 

a.  No&ua  ram.  inf.=Fulmen  BTTONTINHN. 

2  kerrr" 


59§  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

kermes,  enlivened  the  profpect,  which  otherwife  would  have 

been  very  dull.     Near  Quarata,  another  monument  is  to 

be  feen,  commemorating  a  victory  gained  there  in  1503  by 

thirteen  Italians  over  an  equal  number  of  French.     They 

fought  in  lifts  upon  a  formal  challenge,  in  confequence  of 

fome  contemptuous  expreftions  made  ufe  of  by  the  latter. 

Each  of  the  vanquished  party  was  to  forfeit  one  hundred 

ducats,   his  horfe,  and  armour.      The  conteft  was  not  very 

obftinate ;  one  Frenchman  was  killed ;  the  reft  made  pri- 

foners,  and   led   away   to   Barletta,    becaufe   they   had   not 

brought  their  ranfom  with  them.    The  Italian  authors  extol 

this  action  as  a  moft  glorious  atchievement :  the  French 

accufe  their  adverfaries  of  having  difplayed  more  trick  and 

cunning,   than   valour,  in  the  combat. — I  here  quitted  the 

Roman  way,  and  rode  fifteen  miles  weftvvard  to  Caftel  del 

Monte.    The  country  I  traverfed  is  open,   uneven,  and  dry. 

The  caftle  is  a  landmark,  and  ftands  on  the  brow  of  a  very 

high  hill,  the  extremity  of  a  ridge  that  branches  out  from 

the   Apennine.     The  afcent  to  it  is  near  half  a  mile  long, 

and  very  fteep  ;  the  view  from  its  terrace  moft  extenlive. 

A  vaft  reach  of  fea  and   plain  on  one  fide,  and  mountains 

on  the  other ;  not   a  city   in    the   province   but  is    diftin- 

guifhable ;   yet  the  barennefs  of  the  fore-ground  takes  oft  a 

great  deal  of  the  beauty  of  the   picture.      The  building  is 

octangular,  in  a  plain  folid  ftyle;  the  walls  are  raifed  with 

reddifh  and  white  ftones,  ten  feet  fix  inches  thick ;  the  great 

aate  is  of  marble,  cut  into  very  intricate  ornaments,  after 

the 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  399 

the  manner  of  the  Arabians;  on  the  baluftrade  of  the  fteps 
Jie  two  enormous  lions  of  marble,  their  bufhy  manes  nicely, 
though  barbaroufly,  expreffed ;   the  court,  which  is  in   the 
centre  of  the  edifice,  contains  an  octangular  marble  bafon  of 
a  furprifing  diameter.      To  carry  it  to  the  fummit  of  fuch  a 
hill  rauft  have  coft  an  infinite  deal  of  labour.     Two  hun- 
dred fteps  lead  up  to  the  top  of  the  caftle,  which  confifts  of 
two  ftories.     In  each  of  them  are  fifteen  faloons  of  great 
dimensions,   cafed    throughout  with    various  and   valuable 
marbles ;     the    cielings    are   fupported    by  triple   cluftered 
columns  of  a^fingle   block  of  white   marble,    the  capitals 
extremely  fimple.      Various  have   been  the  opinions   con- 
cerning the  founder  of  this  caftle;   but  the  bell:  grounded 
afcribe  it  to  Frederick  of  Swabia  *.      I  dined  and  fpent  the 
hot  hours  with  great  comfort  under  the  porch,  which  com- 
mands a  noble  view  of  the  Adriatic. 

In  the  evening  I  defcended  the  mountain,  and  rode  nine 
miles  to  Andria.  a  large  feudal  city,  eaft  of  the  Roman 
road.  •  Andria  ftands  on  the  edge  of  the  inclofed  country, 
and  its  environs  being  rather  hilly,  are  far  from  unpleafant, 
though  without  any  running  water.      This  town  was  built 

*  A  Neapolitan  gentleman  found,  in  one  of  thefe  rooms,  a  baflb  relievo  re- 
prefenting  this  Emperor  and  his  Chancellor  Peter  de  Vineis,  of  which  he  had 
a  copy  taken  in  plafter.  This  fettles  the  matter  beyond  a  doubt.  I  did  not 
ilifcover  this  i'culpture,  nor  hear  of  it  till  long  after  my  return  to  Naples j  but 
I  faw  another  baffo  relievo  of  fome  warriors  in  Norman  habits  meeting  a  wo> 
man  dreffed  after  the  Greek  fafhion. — As  this  ftone  appears  to  have  been 
inferted  into  the  walls  fince  their  firft  building,  and  bears  the  date  of  152C, 
it  cafts  no  light  on  the  hiftory  of  the  place. 

3  F  by 


4co  JOURNEY    TO    N  A I        .3. 

by  Peter  the  Norman,  and  acquired  its  name  from  the 
antra  or  caverns  in  which  the  firft  fettlers  abided.  Con- 
rad the  Fourth  was  born  at  Andria,  where  his  mother,  the 
Emprefs  Iole  Queen  of  Jerufalem  died  in  childbed  of  him  ; 
and  here  alfo  lies  buried  Ifabella  of  England,  another  wife 
of  the  Emperor  Frederick.  Beatrix,  daughter  to  Charles 
the  Second,  had  Andria  for  her  portion  on  marrying  Azzo 
D'Efte  Marquis  of  Ferrara.  This  Prince  dying,  flie  took 
for  her  fecond  hufband  Bertrand  Del  Balzo,  progenitor  of 
the  Dukes  of  Andria,  who  were  long  at  the  head  of  the 
Neapolitan  Nobility.  In  1370,  Francis  Del  Balzo,  by  a 
quarrel  with  the  powerful  Houfe  of  Sanfeverino,  and  his 
obftinate  refiftance  to  the  royal  mandate,  drew  upon  him- 
felf  the  vengeance  of  Queen  Joan  the  Firft,  who  confifcated 
his  eftate.  On  the  acceilion  of  Charles  the  Third,  he  was 
reinftated.  This  family  failing,  Fabricio  CarafTa  purchafed 
the  Dutchy  of  Andria  in  1525  for  one  hundred  thoufand 
ducats. 

From  hence  I  travelled  twelve  miles  to  Canofa,  over  a. 
pleafant  down,  where  the  Roman  road  remains  entire  in 
many  places,  paved  with  common  rough  pebbles.  Canu~ 
fium,  founded  by  Diomed,  and  afterwards  a  Roman  colony, 
became  one  of  the  molt  confiderable  cities  of  this  part  of 
Italy  for  extent,  population,  and  magnificence  in  building. 
The  sera  of  Trajan  feems  to  have  been  that  of  its  greateft 
fplendour ;  but  this  pomp  only  ferved  to  mark  it  as  a  capi- 
tal objed  for  the  avarice  and  fury  of  the  Barbarians.     Gen- 

feric, 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  4or 

ieric,  Totila,  and  Autharis,  treated  it  with  extreme  cruelty. 
The  deplorable  (late  to  which  this  province  was  reduced  in 
590  is  concifely,  but  ftrongly,  painted  by  Gregory  the  Great 
in  thefe  terms;  "  On  every  iide  we  hear  groans!  on  every 
"  fide  we  behold  crowds  of  mourners,  cities  burnt,  caftles 
tc  rafed  to  the  ground,  countries  laid  wafte,  provinces  be- 
"  come  deferts,  fome  citizens  led  away  captives,  and  others 
"  inhumanly  mafTacred."  No  town  in  Puglia  fuffered 
more  than  Canofa  from  the  outrages  of  the  Saracens ;  the 
contefts  between  the  Greeks  and  Normans  increafed  the 
meafure  of  its  woes,  which  was  filled  by  a  conflagration 
that  happened  when  it  was  ftormed  by  Duke  Robert,  In 
1090,  it  was  alligned,  by  agreement,  to  Bohemund  Prince 
of  Antioch,  who  died  here  in  11 11.  Under  the  reign  of 
Ferdinand  the  Third  this  eftate  belonged  to  the  Grimaldis, 
On  their  forfeiture,  the  AfTaititi  acquired  it,  and  ftill  retain 
the  title  of  Marquis,  though  the  Capeci  are  the  proprie- 
tors of  the  fief. 

The  ancient  city*  flood  in  a  plain  between  the  hills 
and  the  river  Ofanto,  and  covered  a  large  trad:  of  ground. 
Many  brick  monument,  though  degraded  and  ftripped  of 
their  marble  cafing,  ftil]  atteft  its  ancient  grandeur. 
Among  them  may  be  traced  the  fragments  of  aqueducts, 
tombs,    amphitheatre    baths,    military    columns,    and    two 

*  Nummi  Canuf. 
iER.  1.  Cap.  Juv.  imb.=fc;ques  gal.  haftat.  KANTZINn. 

3  F  2  triumphal 


402  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

triumphal  arches,  which,  by  their  pofition,  Teem  to  have 
been  two  dry  gates.  The  prefent  town  ftands  above,  on 
the  foundations  of  the  old  citadel,  and  is  a  raoft  pitiful  rem- 
nant of  fo  great  a  city,  not  containing  above  three  hundred 
houfes.  The  church  of  St.  Sabinus,  built,  as  is  faid,  in  the 
fixth  century,  is  now  without  the  inclofure.  It  is  artonifh- 
ing,  that  any  part  of  this  ancient  cathedral  fhould  have 
withftood  fo  many  calamities.  Its  altars  and  pavements  are 
rich  in  marbles;  and  the  fix  Verde  Antico  columns  that 
fupport  its  roof,  are  the  largeft  and  fined  I  ever  faw  of  that 
fpecies  of  marble.  In  a  fmall  court  adjoining,  under  an 
octagonal  cupola,  is  the  maufoleum  of  Bohemund,  adorned 
in  a  minute  Gothic  ftyle.  Round  the  cornice  runs  a  firing 
of  barbarous  rhymes ;  and  upon  the  door  are  other  infcrip- 
tions,  with  an  embofled  reprefentation  of  warriors  kneeling 
before  the  Madonna.  In  1461,  the  Prince  of  Taranto, 
among  the  many  ads  of  barbarity  pra&ifed  by  him  in 
Canofa,  broke  open  this  fepulchre,  and  difturbed  the  afhes 
of  a  hero  whofe  memory  fhould  have  been  held  facred,  at 
leaft  by  a  foldier :  for  Bohemund  was  a  warrior  of  moft 
exalted  fame,  the  fharer  and  the  rival  of  his  father  Guif- 
card's  glory  ;  who,  by  his  victories,  was  enabled  to  fhake  the 
throne  of  the  Eaftern  Emperors  :  when,  by  the  intrigues 
of  his  mother-in-law  Sigelgaita,  and  the  partiality  ol  his 
uncle  Earl  Roger,  Bohemund  found  himfelf  deprived  of  his 
Italian  inheritance,  he  turned  his  arms  againft  the  Saracens, 
and  formed  a  new  fovereignty  for  himfelf  in  Paleftine.  As 
1  Prince 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  403 

Prince  of  Antioch,   he  became  one  of  the  firmer!  ramparts 
of  the  Crufado  againfl:  the  Infidels. 

The  provvefs  of  thefe  Norman  conquerors  was  fo  much 
greater    than    that    of    their    cotemporaries,     their    bodily 
fcrength  and   feats  of  arms  were  fo  wonderful,    that  it  is 
probable   they   were   the   originals  from  whom  the  writers 
of  romance  drew  their  heroes.     Giants  cloven  to  the  faddle; 
armies  routed   by  a  fingle  warrior  ;  caftles  and  bridges  de- 
fended  by  one  perfon  alone;    knights  travelling  over  the 
world  in  fearch  of  kingdoms,    princefles,   and   adventures, 
are  no  more  than  the  real  events  of  the  lives   of  William 
Fierabras,   Robert  Guifcard,    Earl  Roger,   and  their  compa-  . 
nions.     Malaterra,   their  cotemporary,  friend,  and  hiftorian, 
furnifhes    ample    materials  for   a  complete   romance,   with 
the  addition  of  a  few  enchanters  and  dragons.      Jn  the  firft 
Sicilian  campaign,    William  flays  a   gigantic  champion    in 
fingle  combat.      At  Melfi,   to  fhew  the  Greek  herald  what 
he  could  do,    Hugh  Tudextifem  feizes  his  horfe,   and  kills 
it  with  a  blow  of  his   fift.      In    another  affair,    Fierabras 
fprings  from  his  bed,  where  he  lay  fick  of  a  fever,  rallies  his 
troops,  kills  the  general  of  the  enemies,  obtains  the  vi6tory, 
and  returns  to  his  couch.      WTe  read  frequently  of  Robert's 
being  obliged  for  food  to  fally  out  of  his  cattle  by  night  to 
furprife  and  carry  off  the  cattle  in  the  neighbourhood  ;   and 
once   he  called    out   the  commander  of  a  fort   to   parley, 
caught  him  by  the  middle,   and  rode  off  with  him  in  fight 
of  his  whole  garrifon.      I   do  not   know  which  to  admire 

mod, 


4o4  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

molt,  the  franknefs  of  the  prince  who  dictated  his  own 
ftory  ;  or  the  honefl:  piainnefs  of  the  hiftorian  who  wrote, 
that  Earl  Roger  was  once  fo  poor  as  to  be  obliged  to  fteal 
horfes,  and  plunder  travellers  for  a  fupport.  At  the  fiege 
of  Reggio,  Roger  hews  a  mighty  giant  down  with  his  two- 
handed  fword.  In  a  fally  he  makes  from  a  caftle  in  Sicily, 
where  he  and  his  wife  were  befieged  by  the  Saracens,  his 
horfe  is  killed  under  him ;  but  the  hero  cuts  his  way  through 
their  battalions ;  and,  left  he  fhould  be  thought  to  have  left 
the  field  out  of  fear,  marches  off  with  the  faddle  upon  his 
/boulders.  In  1063,  Serlo  defeats  an  army  of  thirty  thou- 
fand  men  with  only  thirty-fix  knights  armed  cap-a-pee. 
What  a  fund  of  marvellous  fldions  would  not  fuch  fads 
give  birth  to!  Kow  many  fupernatural  circumftances 
might  not  a  bard  create  out  of  the  fingle  one  of  Roger's 
defeating  the  Mahometans  at  Mifilmeri,  taking  all  their 
carrier-pigeons,  fmearing  them  with  the  blood  of  the  fiain, 
and  letting  them  fly  to  announce  the  difafter  at  Palermo, 
which  he  was  marching  to  inveft.  The  idea  of  thefe 
extraordinary  men  certainly  remained  long  imprefled  on  the 
minds  of  the  Italians,  whole  lively  imagination  muft  have 
embellifhed  tradition  with  fo  many  additional  wonders, 
that  the  old  romances  had  little  more  to  do  than  to  commit 
to  writing,  and  drefs  up  in  rhyme,  the  common  tales  of 
every  evening  aflembly.  In  thefe  the  eafy  brilliant  genius 
of  Ariofto  revelled,  and  flruck  out  the  moft  delightful,  but 
moil  eccentrical  defcripiions  ever  ferioufly  attempted  by  a 
poet. 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  405 


SECTION     LIV. 

LEFT  the  bridge  of  Canofa  early  on  the  7th,  and 
travelled  up  the  fouth-fide  of  the  river  for  twelve 
miles,  without  meeting  with  any  object  worthy  of  re- 
mark. The  city  of  Minervino,  feated  on  an  eminence, 
was  the  only  place  I  faw  during  the  ride; — the  country 
bare  and  difagreeable,  till  I  entered  the  heart  of  the  moun- 
tains, where  I  found  a  more  wocdy  and  pleafant  landfcape. 
I  dined  at  Lavello,  a  fmall  city  belonging  to  Caracciolo 
Prince  of  Torella.  Some  Roman  infcriptions,  and  many 
Jewifh  epitaphs  of  the  ninth  century,  are  the  amount  of  its 
antiquities.  The  aera  of  its  foundation  is  unknown. 
Mention  is  made  of  it  in  the  Lombard  Chronicles,  Sicard 
the  eighteenth  Duke  of  Beneventum  having  been  aflalTinated 
at  Lavello.  Conrad  the  Fourth  was  encamped  under  its 
walls,  when  he  was  feized  with  the  diforder  that  carried 
him  off,  poifoned,  as  is  faid,  by  his  brother  Manfred.  His- 
torians fpeak  of  a  ftrange  kind  of  poifon  adminiftered  on. 
the  occafion,  viz.  powder  o^  diamonds  mixed  with  fcam- 
mony,  which  being  given  in  a  clyfter,  brought  away 
the  Fmperor's  bowels  by  piece-meal.  This  Prince  was  then 
in  the  zenith  of  his  glory,  having  routed  his  enemies, 
punifhed  the  rebels  with  feverity,  and  effectually  crufhed 
their  power.     Had   he  been   allowed   to  live  longer,    the 

Houfe 


40G  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

Houfe  of  Swabia  would  not  have  been  fo  eafily  overturned ; 
for  though  bloody  and  cruel  to  excefs,  Conrad  was  poffeffed 
of  the  bold  manly  qualities  requifite  for  fixing  his  dominion 
on  a  permanent  bafis. 

From  Lavello  I  pafTed  over  rugged  mountains  to  Venofa, 
which  ftands  on  a  high  level  of  nine  miles  in  circumference, 
furrounded  by  precipices,  that  form  on  every  fide  a  natural 
ditch  and  fortification.  The  whole  mafs  has  been  raifed 
by  the  force  of  fubterranean  fires,  as  the  nature  of  the  foil, 
and  a  forum  vulcani,  or  folfatara,  diftant  a  mile  from  the 
city,  clearly  evince.  This  folfatara  is  not  encircled  by  hills 
like  that  of  Puzzuoli,  which  it  refembles  in  every  other 
particular,  of  colour,  fulphureous  productions,  and  internal 
rumblings.  Numberlefs  ftreams  flow  out  of  its  fides ;  and, 
what  is  extraordinary,  vary  much  in  their  colour  and  mine- 
ral qualities. 

Venofa  was  a  very  confiderable  place  in  ancient  times, 
and  a  fteady  ufeful  friend  to  Rome  in  her  ftruggles  with 
Hannibal.  The  remnant  of  Terentius  Varro's  army  fled 
hither  from  Cannae,  and  obtained  of  the  generous  Venufians 
both  protection  and  fupplies  of  all  forts.  When  the  Nor- 
mans fudued  Puglia,  Dreux  had  Venofa  for  his  £hare  of  the 
fpoil.  The  San  Severinos  enjoyed  it  afterwards ;  then 
palling  through  the  family  of  Balzo,  the  honour  devolved 
upon  a  fon  of  Raymund  Prince  of  Taranto.  A  brother  of 
Pope  Martin  the  Fifth,  was  for  a  few  years  inverted  with 
this  fief  j   but  on  the  Pontiff's  demife,   was  deprived  of  his 

Neapolitan 


JOURNEYTONAPLES.  407 

Neapolitan  grants.     Caracciolo,  Prince  of  Torella,   is  the 
prefent  proprietor. 

Nothing  is  now  to  be  feen  at  Venofa  that  can  recal  an 
idea  of  its  ancient  magnificence,   except  pieces  of  marble 
containing  parts  of  inferiptions,  fixed  in  the  walls  of  houfes 
and  churches.      The  Gothic  edifice  belonging  to  the  Mai- 
thefe  order,   and  dedicated  to  the  Holy  Trinity,  affords  the 
greateft  quantity  of  fragments,  and  even  entire  monuments, 
torn  by  the  hands  of  its  barbarous  founders  from  ruinated 
theatres,    baths,    and  temples.      This   church  was    eredted 
upon  the  foundations  of  a  temple   confecrated   to  Venus, 
from  which  goddefs  the   city  is  fuppofed  to  have  taken  its 
name.     The  Benedictine  monks  were  in  poffeflion  of  this 
abbey  till  the  reign  of  Boniface  the  Eighth,  who  endowed 
the  Knights  of  Saint  John  with  it.     Its  architecture  offers 
nothing  lingular  or  beautiful  in  the  Gothic  line.     Solidity 
appears  to  have  been  more  ftudied  by  the  Norman  archi- 
tects who  rebuilt  or  repaired  it,    than  elegance  or  lightneis, 
which  became  the  principal  objects  of  thofe   builders  that 
fucceeded  them.     The  remains  of  Dreux,  Robert  Guifcard, 
and  Albarade  his  wife,  whom  he  divorced  to  marry  a  Lom- 
bard Princefs,  repofe  under  its  roof.      From  the  number  of 
Hebraic  monuments,   which  bear  the  fame  date  with  thofe 
of  Lavello,    I    infer   that   the  Jews   flocked   to   this  coun- 
try about    the  time   that    the   Saracen   power  was   predo- 
minant in  Puglia.     The  piece  of  antiquity  of  highefr,  re- 
putation,  and  upon  which  the  inhabitants  of  Venofa  plume 

3  G  themfelves 


4o8  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

themfelves  mofr,  is  a  marble  buft  placed  in  the  great  fquare 
on  a  column.  This  they  mew  as  the  effigy  of  their  fellow- 
citizen  Horace ;  but  the  badnefs  of  the  defign,  and  the 
mode  of  drefs,  render  this  opinion  very  problematical.  I 
take  it  to  be  the  head  of  a  faint.  The  reflect  paid  to  fo 
diftinguifhed  a  genius  does  honour  to  the  tafte  of  the  Veno- 
fians ;  but  I  am  aftonifhed  they  have  not  canonized  their 
poet,  for  the  vulgar  at  Naples  have  made  a  faint  of  Virgil. 

I  made  an  excurGon  fix  miles  along  the  Tarentine  road 
to  vifit  the  Bandufian  fountain,  celebrated  by  Horace  in  the 
thirteenth  Ode  of  his  Third  Book,  and  fo  long  a  point  in 
litigation  among  critics  and  commentators.  The  common 
opinion  placed  it  at  his  Sabine  farm ;  but  Abbe  Chaupy  has 
inconteftibly  proved,  that  it  can  be  no  other  than  a  fpring 
near  Palazzo,  in  the  principality  of  St.  Gervafio.  I  dis- 
covered it  by  the  defcription  given  by  Chaupy ;  and  was 
forry  to  find  him  fo  faithful  a  painter  of  the  prefent  de- 
plorable ftate  of  this  once  charming  fountain.  No  fhady 
oroves  now  hang  over  its  banks  to  fhut  out  the  burning 
mid-day  fun  ;  its  gelid  waters  no  longer  tumble  down  the 
rocks  in  beautiful  cafcades,  but,  choked  with  dirt,  and  loft 
in  bogs,  are  forced  to  feek  their  way  under  ground  to  a 
vent  at  the  foot  of  the  hill. 

I  returned  to  Venofa,  and  paflfed  the  night  at  Barile,  at 
the  bottom  of  Mount  Vol  tore,  which  I  propofed  to  afcend 
the  next  day.  Barile  is  a  large  burgh,  fituated  on  a  hill, 
that  appears  to  owe  its  exiftence  to  an  eruption,  as  the  foil 

is 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  409 

is  entirely  volcanical,  and  the  ftone,  employed  in  buildings, 
a  dark- coloured  compact  lava.  A  line  of  circumvallation 
of  thirty  miles,  marks  the  extent  of  this  caft-up  foil.  The 
inclofed  fpace  is  covered  with  every  fpecies  of  ftone,  earth, 
and  mineral,  ufually  found  on  or  near  ignivomous  mountains. 
Medicinal  waters  break  on  all  fides,  and  are  prefcribed  by 
phyficians  in  many  cafes.  The  fummit  of  Mount  Vol  tore 
is  like  that  of  all  volcanoes,  broken  on  one  fide,  and  hollow 
in  the  middle.  In  the  crater  are  two  lakes  of  great  depth ; 
one  near  a  mile,  the  other  almoft  two  in  circumference. 
The  water  is  clear,  fweet,  and  cool,  at  leaft  near  the 
furface;  but  I  was  aflured  that  it  is  infupportably  ftrong, 
both  in  tafte  and  fmell,  if  drawn  up  from  a  confiderable 
depth. 

A  change  of  weather  obliged  me  to  leave  the  mountain 
in  a  hurry,  and  make  the  beft  of  my  way  to  Lavello*. 

On  the  icth,  I  pafTed  the  whole  day  in  crofling  the 
plains  of  Puglia  to  the  bridge  of  Bovino,  almoft  fuffocated 
with   duft,    and    parched    up    with    heat.      We   dined    at 

*  Had  the  weather  been  more  favourable,  I  mould  have  flopped  at  Melfi, 
remarkable  for  being  the  firft  place  that  was  feized  by  the  Normans,  and 
appointed  a  common  rendezvous  for  all  the  chiefs  of  the  league.  Hirher  they 
brought  their  booty,  and  threw  it  into  a  joint  flock.  Hither  they  retired  on 
any  reverfe  of  fortune.  In  1059,  Nicholas  the  Second  called  a  Council  of 
one  hundred  prelates  at  Melfi,  and  confirmed  the  Normans  in  the  poflefllon 
of  their  ufurped  dominions.  Upon  this  confirmation  Canonists  reft  all  the 
rights  to  the  Crown  of  the  two  Sicilies.  Frederick  of  Swabia  held  a  Parlia- 
ment here  for  the  purpole  of  promulgating  the  conftitutions  compiled  by  his 
Chancellor  Peter  de  Vineis. 

3  G   2  Ordona, 


4io  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

Ordona,  near  the  ruins  of  Herdonia,  a  place  of  importance 
in  the  Punic  war ;  at  prefent  fome  brick  walls,  veftiges  of 
baths,  aquedu&s,  and  gates3  are  all  that  remain.  About  a 
mile  off  is  a  farm  of  the  late  Jefuits,  called  L'Orta,  a  Itu- 
pendous  pile  of  buildings.  From  Ariano,  we  turned  off  to 
Benevento,  where  we  arrived  through  an  unremitting  deluge 
of  rain,  with  inceffant  claps  of  thunder  and  flafhes  of 
lightning.  Every  gutter  became  a  brook,  and  every  brook 
a  river  j  fo  that  we  were  obliged  to  make  great  hafte  to  get 
there,  before  they  fhould  fwell  to  fuch  a  height  as  to  flop 
our  paflage. 


SECTION     LV. 

T5ENEVENTO   is   fltuated  on  the  flope,  and  at  the 
point  of  a  hill  between   two  narrow  vallies,  in  one  of 
which  runs  the  river  Sabato,  in  the  other  the  Calore ;  be- 
low the  city  they  unite  into  one  flream. 

We  entered  through  the  arch  of  Trajan,  now  called  the 
Porta  Aurea,  which  appears  to  great  difadvantage  from  the 
walls  and  houfes  that  hem  it  in  on  both  fides;  however,  it 
is  in  tolerable  prefervation,  and  one  of  the  moil:  magnificent 
remains  of  Roman  grandeur  to  be  met  with  out  of  Rome. 
The  architecture  and  fculpture  are  both  fingularly  beautiful. 
This  elegant  monument  was  erected  in  the  year  of  Chrifi: 
114,  about  the  commencement  of  the  Parthian  war,  and 

after 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  411 

after  the  fubmiftlon  of  Decebalus  had  entitled  Trajan  to  the 
furname  of  Dacicus.  The  order  is  compofite ;  the  mate- 
rials, white  marble;  the  height,  fixty  palms;  length,  thirty- 
feven  and  a  half;  and  depth  twenty-four.  It  confifts  of  a 
{ingle  arch,  the  fpan  of  which  is  twenty  palms,  the  height 
thirty-five.  On  each  fide  of  it,  two  fluted  columns,  upon 
a  joint  pedeftal,  fupport  an  entablement  and  an  Attic.  The 
intercolumniations  and  frize  are  covered  with  baffo -relievos, 
reprefenting  the  battles  and  triumph  of  the  Dacian  war.  In  the 
Attic  is  the  infcription. — As  the  fixth  year  of  Trajan's  confu- 
late,  marked  on  this  arch,  is  alfo  to  be  feen  on  all  the  milliary 
columns  he  erected  along  his  new  road  to  Brundufium,  it  is 
probable  that  the  arch  was  built  to  commemorate  fo  bene- 
ficial an  undertaking. 

Except  the  old  Metropolis  of  the  World,  no  city  in  Italy 
can  boaft  of  fo  many  remains  of  ancient  fculpture,  as  are  to 
be  found  in  Benevento.  Scarce  a  wall  is  built  of  any  thing 
but  altars,  tombs,  columns,  and  remains  of  entablatures. 
The  moft  confiderable  are  in  the  upper  town,  which  I  take 
to  be  the  fite  of  the  old  one.  The  cupola  of  St.  Sophia 
refts  upon  a  circular  colonnade  of  antique  marble,,  in  the 
fame  manner  as  thofe  of  Santa  Maria  near  Nocera,  Saint 
Sebaftian,  and  St.  Agnes  at  Rome, — and.  other  buildings 
ereded  under  Conftantine  and  his  family,  when  the  arts 
were  declining.  In  the  court  is  a  fine  relievo  of  the  Rape 
of  the  Sabines :  the  other  remarkable  fragments  are,  the 
Death  of  Meleager,— a  Meafurer  of  Corn, — 'fome  fepulchral 

buf^ 


4i2  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

bufts, — a  large  boar,  covered  with  the  ftole  and  vitta  for 
facrifice,  which  antiquaries  call  the  Caledonian  Boar,  left 
by  Diomed  as  a  badge  to  his  colony  of  Benevento, — and, 
Hercules  ftealing  the  Hefperian  Apples.  This  laft  piece 
{truck  me  very  much,  from  the  refemblance  it  bears  to  our 
common  mode  of  depicting  the  Fall  of  Man.  A  woman 
lies  at  the  foot  of  a  tree,  and  a  huge  ferpent  is  twined 
round  the  trunk,  ftretching  out  its  head  towards  the  fruit, 
which  a  man  leans  forward  to  pluck.  The  club  he  holds 
in  his  hand,  and  a  Greek  infcription  *,  mark  him  out  for 
Hercules  -f-.  A  volume  might  be  filled  with  infcriptions 
collected  here,  relative  to  every  fubjecl,  on  which  the 
ancients,  who  recorded  every  trifle,  were  wont  to  fet  up  a 
lapidary  memorial.  The  chriftians  have  alfo  contributed  a 
confiderable  variety  of  monuments.  I  remarked  one,  in 
particular,  reprefenting  a  man  rifing  out  of  the  waters,  and 
purfued  by  a  fim :  this  alludes  to  the  ftory  of  Jonas,  and 
was  fometimes  carved  upon  the  tombs  of  the  primitive 
chriftians,  to  exprefs  myfterioufly  their  belief  in  the  refur- 
redtion. 

The  cathedral  is  a  clumfy  edifice,  in  a  ftile  of  Gothic,  or 
rather  Lombard,  architecture.  This  church,  dedicated  to 
the  Virgin  Mary,  was  built  in  the  fixth  century,  enlarged 

*  HPAKAH  CflTHPI  n  IOYNIOC  IANOTAPIOC  AlfTOTC  ANE0HKEN. 

•f  Some  ingenious  writers  have  endeavoured  to  prove,  that  the  fable  of  the 
Hefperides  is  built  upon  the  fcriptural  account  of  our  Firft  Parents ;  and 
this  Ex  Veto  to  Hercules,  mews  that  there  are  good  grounds  for  the  com- 
panion. 

in 


JOURNEY     TO    NAPLES.  413 

in  the  eleventh,  and  altered  confiderably  in  the  thirteenth, 
when  Archbifhop  Roger  adorned  it  with  a  new  front.  To 
obtain  a  fufficient  quantity  of  marble  for  this  purpofe,  he 
fpared  neither  farcophagus,  altar,  nor  infcription ;  but  fixed 
them  promifcuoufly  and  irregularly  in  the  walls  of  his  bar- 
barous ftructure.  Three  doors  (a  type  of  the  Trinity, 
according  to  the  rules  eftablimed  by  the  myftical  Vitruvii 
of  thofe  ages)  open  into  this  facade.  That  in  the  centre  is 
of  bronze,  emboffed  with  the  life  of  Chrift,  and  the  effigies 
of  the  Beneventine  Metropolitan,  with  all  his  fufTragan 
Bifhops.  The  infide  offers  nothing  to  the  curious  obferver 
but  columns,  altars,  and  other  decorations,  executed  in  the 
moft  inelegant  ftile  that  any  of  the  church-building  barba- 
rians ever  adopted.  In  the  court  ftands  a  fmall  Egyptian 
obeliflc,  of  red  granite,  crowded  with  hieroglyphics.  In 
the  adjoining  fquare,  are  a  fountain,  and  a  very  indifferent 
flatue  of  Benedict  the  Thirteenth,  long  archbifhop  of 
Benevento. 

The  writers  of  the  Beneventine  hiftory  unanimoufly  claim 
Diomed,  the  Etolian  chief,  for  the  founder  of  their  city  ; 
and  confequently  fix  its  origin  in  the  years  that  immediately 
fucceeded  the  Trojan  war.  Other  authors  affign  it  to  the 
Samnites,  who  made  it  one  of  their  principal  towns,  where 
they  frequently  took  refuge,  when  worried  by  the  Romany 
In  their  time,  its  name  was  Maleventum,  a  word  of  uncer- 
tain etymology  :  however,  it  founded  fo  ill  in  the  Latin 
tongue,  that  the  fuperftitious  Romans,  after  atchieving  the 

8  conquefL 


4i4  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES, 

conqueft  of  Samnium,    changed   it  into   Beneventum,    in 
order  to  introduce   their   colony  under   fortunate    aufpices. 
Near  this  place,  in  the  four  hundred  and  feventy-ninth  year 
of  Rome,  Pyrrhus  was  defeated  by  Curius  Dentatus.      In 
the  war  againft  Hannibal,   Beneventum  fignalized  its  attach- 
ment   to   Rome,  by    liberal  tenders  of   fuccour,    and  real 
fervices.      Its   reception   of  Gracchus,    after   his  defeat   of 
Hanno,  is  extolled  by   Livy ;    and,  from   the  gratitude  of 
the  Senate,    many   folid  advantages   accrued  to  the  Bene- 
ventines.      As  they  long  partook,  in  a  diftinguiihed  man- 
ner, of  the  glories  and  profperity  of  the  Roman  empire, — 
thev  alfo  fcverely  felt  the  efTecls  of  its  decline,  and  fhared, 
in  a  large  proportion,  the  horrors  of  devaluation  that  attended 
the  irruption  of  the  northern  nations. 

The  modern  hiftory  of  this  city  will  appear  intereHing  to 
thofe  readers,  who  do  not  defpife  the  events  of  ages,  which 
•we  ufually  and  juftly  call  dark  and  barbarous.     They  cer- 
tainly are  of  importance  to  all  the  prefent  dates  of  Europe ; 
for  at  that  period  originated  the  political  exiftence  of  moffc 
of  them.      Had  no  northern  favages  defcended  from  their 
fnovvy   mountains,    to  overturn   the  Roman   colofTus,    and 
break  afunder  the  fetters  of  mankind,  few  of  thofe  powers, 
which   now  make  fo  formidable  a  figure,  would  ever  have 
been  fo  much  as  heard  of.      The  avengers  of  the  general 
wrongs  were,   no  doubt,  the  deftroyers  of  arts  and  litera- 
ture, and  brought  on  the  thick  clouds  of  ignorance,  which, 
for  many  centuries,  no  gleam  of  light  could  penetrate  j  but 

it 


JOURNEY     TO    NAPLES.  4r/ 

it  is  to  be  remembered,  alfo,  that  the  Romans  themfelves 
had  already  made  great  progrefs  in  baniming  true  tafte  and 
knowledge,  and  would  very  foon  have  been  a  barbarous 
nation,  though  neither  Goths  nor  Vandals  had  ever  ap- 
proached the  frontier. 

The  Lombards  came  the  lafl:  of  the  Scythian  or  Scandi- 
navian hordes,   to   invade  Italy.      After  fixing  the   feat  of 
their  empire  at  Pavia,  they   fent   a   detachment  to  pofTefs 
itfelf  of  the  fouthern   provinces.     In  571,   Zotto  was  ap- 
pointed Duke  of  Benevento,  as  a  feudatory  of  the  King  of 
Lombardy  ;   and  feems  to  have  confined  his  rule  to  the  city 
alone,   from  which  he  fallied  forth  to  ieek  for  booty.      The 
fecond  Duke,   whofe  name  was  Arechis,  conquered  almoff. 
the   whole   country  that  now   conititutes   the   kingdom  of 
Naples.      His  fuccefTors  appear  long  to  have  remained  fatif- 
fied  with  the  extent  of  dominion    he  had  tranfmitted   to 
them.      Grimwald,    one   of  them,    ufurped   the   crown    of 
Lombardy  ;   but  his  fon  Romwald,  though  a  very  fuccefsful 
warrior,   contented  himfelf  with   the  ducal  title.      The  fall 
of  Defiderius,  la  ft  King  of  the  Lombards,  did  not  affect  the 
(rate   ot    Benevento.      By  an   effort  of  policy  or  refolution, 
Arechis  the  Second  kept  poiTeilion  ;   and  availing  himfelf  of 
the    favourable   conjuncture,    aflerted    Ins    independence, — 
threw    oil     all    feudal    fubmiflion, — afTumcd    the    Mile    of 
Prince, — and  coined  money  with  his  own  image  upon  it;   a 
prerogative  cxercifed  by  none  of  his  predecefibrs,   as  Dukes 
of  Bjnevcnto.      During  four   reigns,  this   flatc   maintained 

3   H  itfelf 


4i6  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

itielf  on  a  refpeclable  footing ;  and  might  long  have  con- 
tinued   fo,    had    not    civil  war,    added   to   very   powerful 

aflaults    from   abroad,    haftened   its    ruin.     Radelchis    and 
* 

Siconulph  afpired  to  the  principality  ;  and  each  of  them 
invited  the  Saracens  to  his  aid.  The  defolation  caufed  by 
this  conflict  is  fcarcely  to  be  defcribed.  No  better  method 
for  terminating  thefe  fatal  diffentions  could  be  devifed,  than 
dividing  the  dominions  into  two  diftinc~t  fovereignties.  In 
851,  Radelchis  reigned  as  Prince  at  Benevento;  and  his 
adverfary  fixed  his  court,  with  the  fame  title,  at  Salerno. 
From  this  treaty  of  partition,  the  ruin  of  the  Lombards 
became  inevitable :  a  want  of  union  undermined  their 
ftrength, — foreigners  gained  an  afcendant  over  them, — 
irrefolution  and  weaknefs  pervaded  their  whole  (yftem  of 
government.  The  erection  of  Capua  into  a  third  princi- 
pality, was  another  deftructive  operation  ;  and  now  the 
inroads  of  the  Saracens, — the  attacks  of  the  eaftern  and 
weftern  emperors, — anarchy  and  animofity  at  home — 
reduced  the  Lombard  ftates  to  fuch  wretehednefs,  that  they 
were  able  to  make  a  very  feeble  refinance  to  the  Norman 
arms.  The  city  of  Benevento  alone  efcaped  their  fvvay,  by 
a  grant  which  the  Emperor  Henry  the  Second  had  made  of 
it  to  the  Bifhop  of  Rome,  in  exchange  for  the  territory  of 
Bamberg  in  Germany,  where  the  Popes  enjoyed  a  kind  of 
fovereignty.  From  the  year  1054  to  this  day,  the  Roman. 
See,  with  fome  fhort  interruptions  of  poffeffion,  has  exer- 
cifed    temporal   dominion  over   this   city.      Benevento  has 

"t  given 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  417 

given  three  Popes  to  the  chair  of  St.  Peter;  viz.  Felix  the 
Third,  Victor  the  Third,  and  Gregory  the  Eighth  ;  and, 
what  it  is  much  prouder  of,  reckons  St.  Januarius  in  the 
lift  of  its  Bimops. 


SECTION     LVI. 

T  TOOK  a  walk  in  the  evening  to  the  field  of  battle, 
where  Charles  of  Anjou  defeated  Manfred  ;  and  in  the 
way  would  gladly  have  perfuaded  my  condu&or  to  fhew 
me  the  fpot  where  the  famous  walnut-tree  grew,  round 
which  the  witches  were  fuppofed  to  aflemble  and  keep  their 
Sabbath.  He  denied  having  any  knowledge  of  the  place, 
though  he  confeffed  he  believed  that  many  old  women  of 
the  neighbourhood  were  very  well  acquainted  with  it,  and 
that  feveral  of  his  friends  had  heard  the  noifes  the  forcerefies 
make  in  the  air,  as  they  ride  along  en  their  broomlticks. 
This  refort  of  witches,  which  was  believed  by  all  writers 
upon  doemonology,  and  is  (till  fo  among  the  peafants  here- 
abouts, is  founded  upon  a  very  old  tradition.  The  Lom- 
bards, vvhofe  creed  differed  little  from  that  of  other  nations 
of  Celtic  origin,  had  a  great  veneration  for  trees,  and  were 
wont  to  perform,  under  particular  hallowed  ones,  fuch  rites 
as  were  enjoined  them  by  their  ancient  institutions.  At 
Benevento,  the  place  of  meeting  was  under  a  large  walnut- 
tree  ;   and   it  was  cuftomary  to  hang  on   the  branches  the 

3  H   2  figure 


4l3  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

figure  of  a  viper,  with  two  heads,  coiled  up.  A  ring  of 
this  kind  was  found  fonie  years  r.go.  This  fymbol,  which 
is  expreiiive  o£  the  vital  principle,  is  among  the  oldeft 
emblems  invented  by  man,  and  may  be  traced  through  the 
religion  of  all  nations,  from  Japan  to  Iceland.  When  St. 
Barbatus  converted  the  Beneventine  Lombards  to  Chriflianity, 
he  caufed  the  tree  to  be  cut  down  ;  but  the  Legend  gravely 
informs  us,  that  the  Devil  found  means  to  raife  fuckers  out 
of  the  root,  round  which  he  and  his  fultanas  from  LaplancL, 
and  other  feminaries  of  magicians,  flock  by  night  to  cele- 
brate their  infernal  orgies. 

The  plain,  where  the  battle  was  fought,  lies  about  two. 
miles  down  the  river.  Neither  commander  feems  to  have 
difplayed  any  great  military  flail*  but  to  have  refted  the 
event  upon  the  valour  of  his  troops.  Charles,  indeed,  had 
an  advantage  in  the  known  treachery  of  the  Neapolitan 
Barons  in  the  Swabian  army  ;  as  mofr.  of  them  had  been 
gained  over  by  his  promifes,  or  the  Pope's  fpiritual  threats. 
Manfred  feeing  the  traitors  refufc  to  charge,  rufhed  with  his 
faithful  adherents  into  the  thickeft  of  the  fray,  where  he. 
was  llain.  His  body  remained  above  a  day  undilcovered,, 
till  a  peafant,  who  was  well  acquainted  with  Ins  perfon, 
found  it,  and  laying  it  acrofs  his  afs,  called  out  in  deridon^ 
Who  will  attack  Manfred  ?  The  French  officers  fued  in  vain 
to  their  chief  for  leave  to  depofit  the.  corpfe  in  holy  ground.. 
Pignatelli,  the  Pope's  Legate,  infixed  upon  its  being  thrown 
into  a  ditch :   every  foldier  in  the  army  caft  a  flone  upon 

the 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  4r9 

the  grave,  and  thus  raifed  a  barrow  over  it.      But  this  fana- 
tical Prelate,   vvhofe  revenge  nothing  could   fatisfy,   caufed 
the  bones  to  be  taken  up,  and  fcattered  on  the  banks  of  the 
river  Verde  in  Abruzzo,  where  no  friend  or  humane  perfon 
might  find  them,  and  again  commit  them  to  earth.      Thus 
ended  Manfred. — No  Prince  has  been  more  virulently  tra- 
duced   by  the   Guelph   writers,    vvhofe  intereft  and   hatred 
combined   to   fet   his  character  in  as  bad  a  light  as  poflible, 
in  order   to   ftrengthen  the  claim   of  his  opponent,  and  to 
fupport  the  high  pretentions  of  the  church.     Some  Ghibel- 
lines  have  attempted  to   do   him  juftice.      It  would  be  no 
difficult  tafic,   with   the  documents  that   may  be  obtained 
from  the  chronicles  of  the  thirteenth  century,  to  draw  ud  a 
fair  ftate  of  the  queftion,  and  vindicate  Manfred  from  many 
ol   the  heavy  charges   brought  againfl:  him.      An  ingenious 
Author,  in  his  hiftoric  doubts  concerning  our  King  Richard 
the  Third,  has  pointed  out  the  way  of  proceeding  in  fuch  a 
redintegration   of  character.      Thoie  unfortunate  monarchs* 
refembled  each  other  in  many  particulars;  but  undoubtedly 
the   Neapolitan  greatly   deferves    the  preference.     Manfred, 
was  beautiful  in   his  perfon,   accomplifhed  in  all  arts  then, 
becoming  a  gentleman  ;   affable,    magnificent,  liberal,  great:. 
m  his  views,    and   anxious  for  the  welfare  of  his  people  ; 
inflexible    and    impartial    in    the    diitribudon    cf    juftice ;: 
learned,  for  the  times  he  lived  in ;   and  a  protector  of  thofe 
who  cultivated  fcience.      On   the   other  hand,   I  mult   not 
diflemble  his  contempt  for  religion, — but  I  impute  the  £auk 


42o  JOURNEY    TO    -NAPLES. 

to  the  complexion  of  the  times  in  which  he  lived, — when 
the  temporal  dictates  of  the  Pope  were  fo  artfully  inter- 
woven with  the  fpiritual  dogmas  of  the  church,  that  who- 
ever dared  to  difpute  the  former,  was  apt  to  reject  the 
latter, — at  leaft  was  fuppofed  fo  to  do.  1  believe  him  to 
have  indulged  a  paflion  for  the  fair  fex ;  but,  had  he  been 
permitted  to  live  longer,  age  would  no  doubt  have  brought 
on  repentance,  and  he  might  have  died  in  as  good  repute  as 
Charlemagne,  Lewis  the  Fourteenth,  or  any  other  great 
and  amorous  monarch.  Manfred  was  ambitious, — and,  to 
obtain  a  crown,  infringed  the  laws  of  inheritance  ;  but  a 
defence  of  his  conduct,  on  that  point,  would  look  like  a 
fatire  on  his  numberlefs  fellow- culprits,  from  Ca?far  down 
to  Kouli  Khan ; — and  I  mud  have  better  proofs  than  any 
yet  alleged,  to  convince  me  of  his  having  been  a  murderer 
and  a  parricide,  if  we  had  not  examples,  in  all  ages,  of 
the  like  weaknefTes  in  other  great  men,  I  mould  be  afto- 
nifhed  to  find  Manfred  fuch  a  believer  in  aflrology  and 
omens.  He  gave  an  inflance  of  this  credulity,  as  he  was 
marching  to  battle,  by  being  fo  fhccked  at  the  falling  of  a 
filver  eagle  from  his  helmet,  that  he  turned  pale,  and  cried 
out,    "  This  is  a  fign  from  God  !" 

On  leaving  Benevento,  I  eroded  the  Calore,  and  travelled 
to  Montefarchio,  up  hiil  mod  of  the  way,  by  a  very  fine 
road.  Three  bridges,  built  of  immenfe  blocks  of  ftone,  are 
the  only  remains  of  the  Via  Appia.  The  foil  varies,  but  is 
in  many  places  volcanical  :  one  fmall  hill  is  an  entire  lump 

of 


JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES.  43* 

of  lava.  Montefarchio,  a  large  town  belonging  to  the 
Prince  of  Troja,  (lands  at  the  head  of  a  plain  furrounded 
with  lofty  mountains  on  every  fide,  except  the  north-weft 
corner,  where  the  chain  is  broken.  This  plain  is  of  an 
oblong  fnape,  and  has,  in  my  opinion,  been  originally  the 
crater  of  a  very  large  volcano,  and  afterwards  a  lake.  The 
fediment  of  the  waters  may  have  levelled  and  filled  up  the 
bottom  ;  and  at  laft  a  fhock  may  have  broken  down  fome 
part  of  the  environing  hills,  and  let  out  the  water.  Tor- 
rents warning  down  the  foil  of  the  mountains,  may  have 
continued  to  raife  the  level,  and  cultivation  completed  the 
drainage.  This  feems  to  me,  from  its  fize  and  pofition,  to 
be  the  place  where  the  Roman  Confuls,  and  their  army  of 
thirty  tlicufand  men,  were  enveloped  and  captured  by  the 
Samnites,  who  pofTeffed  themfelves  of  the  high  grounds, — 
blocked  up  the  pafs  that  leads  eaftward  to  Benevcnto, — 
and,  as  foon  as  the  Romans  had  entered  the  valley,  clofed 
up  the  way  from  Arpaia,  by  which  the  legions  had  entered. 
I  know  it  is  ufual  to  call  the  narrow  dell  below  Arpaia,  or 
that  which  leads  to  Durazzano,.  by  the  name  of  the  Cau- 
dine  Forks ;  and  differtations  have  been  written  to  prove 
and  explain  this  idea.  But  thofe  vallies  are  fo  mort  and 
narrow,  that  I  cannot  conceive  how  fo  many  thoufand 
armed  men,  in  marching  array,  could  be  fqueezed  into  the 
fpace.  It  is  clear  that  the  vanguard  rauft  have  marched  out 
at  the  head  of  the  defile,  before  the  rear  could  arrive  at  the- 
bottom  'x    which*    would   effectually    have    fruflrated    the- 

fcheme. 


4;z  JOURNEY    TO    NAPLES. 

fcheme  of  the  Samnites.  The  flatnefs  of  the  plain  of 
Montefarchio  is  not  a  fufficient  reafon  for  rejecting  my  fup- 
pofition,  becaufe  earth  warned  from  mountains,  ruins  of 
houfes,  and  fall  of  wood — muft,  in  the  procefs  of  ages, 
have  raifed  the  foil  confiderably,  and  changed  the  whole 
face  of  the  country.  At  the  Forchia  d'Arpaia,  the  ancient 
Caudium — the  pafs  is  ftill  fo  narrow,  the  hills  on  each  fide 
fo  bold  and  fteep,  that  even  now  it  would  be  eafy  to  throw 
in  fuch  an  abattis  as  could  not  be  forced,  though  defended 
only  by  a  handful  of  men. 

From  hence  the  defcent  is  rapid  to  Arienzo,  by  a  beau- 
tiful winding  valley,  well  (haded  with  hanging  woods  of 
chefnut-trees  ; — the  road  excellent.  Arienzo  is  a  large 
burgh,  in  a  low  but  delightful  fituation,  furrounded  with 
vineyards  and  gardens.  It  belonged  to  Etendart,  one  of 
Charles  the  Firft's  generals, — then  to  Boffa, — and  now  to 
Caraffa,   Duke  of  Madaloni. 

Here  I  left  the  hills,  and  travelled  to  Acerra,  a  neat  city, 
walled  round  after  the  old  manner,  in  a  very  flat,  wet 
fituation.  Large  drains  prevent  the  river  Lagno  from  being 
fo  deftru&ive  to  its  territory  as  it  was  in  the  time  of  the 
Romans,  when  its  pofition  was  bad  to  a  proverb.  This 
fief  was  firfl.  held  by  a  branch  of  the  Aquino  family,  which 
failed  in  1292.  Ctho  of  Brunfwick  received  it  from  his  wire 
Joan  the  Firh1,  and  fold  it  to  Orhno.  In  Charles  the 
Third's  reign,  Protogiudice  had  it ;  and,  under  Joan  the 
Second,  it  pafTed  to  Origlia  :   Alphonfus  the  Firft  inveftcd 

Cardines 


J  O  U  R  N  E  Y    T  O    N  A  P  L  E  S.  423 

Cardines  with  it. — Acerra  is  called  the  country  of  Punchi- 
nellos, becaufe  that  comic  character,  which  is  to  the  Nea- 
politan ftage  what  Harlequin  the  Bergamafque  is  to  the 
other  Italian  ones,  is  always  underftood  to  be  a  native  of 
this  little  city.  Punchinello  is  the  wit,  the  droll  of  Neapo- 
litan comedy,' — fpeaks  the  provincial  jargon,  and  has  the 
exclufive  privilege  of  faying  good  things  and  double  en- 
tendres.  He  is  fuch  a  favourite,  that,  in  carnival  time, 
the  ftreets  of  Naples  are  crowded  with  'mafks  in  his 
drefs,  all  acting  inimitably  a  part,  for  which  they  are 
fo  exactly  formed  by  nature.  From  Acerra  to  Naples, 
the  road  is  fandy,  through  one  continued  wood  of  vines 
and  poplars. 


END    OF    THE    FIRST    VOLUME, 


3  1 


I 


N 


D 


E 


X 


O  F 


Remarkable   PLACES,    PERSONS,    and    THINGS. 


A  BELLA  Ru 
•^■*-     Acerra 

ins 

m 

Page  105 

- 

■ 

42  a 

Agri  River 

- 

- 

278 

Agriculture 

- 

167 

289 

Albanefe 

- 

248 

Alphonfusl.  King< 

)f  Sic 

Hy 

141 

•  2J1 

Amfanctus 

* 

128 

Andria 

399 

Aprocina 

- 

148 

Aquino  Family 

V 

- 

327 

Ariano 

k» 

^31 

Arpi  Ruins 

- 

- 

148 

Archicas  of  Tarentum 

- 

*59 

Avcllino 

- 

108 

Auguftus 

4J- 

97- 

171 

297 

3. 

Bandufia  Fountain 

- 

408 

Banks 

- 

79 

Bari 

* 

- 

191 

Barletta 

m 

175 

Bafiento  River 

- 

- 

272 
3l 

Battle  of  Benevento       - 

of  Bitonto 

■    ■    -  of  Canna; 
1  of  Sinno 

Baux  Family- 
Bells 

Benevento 
Bifceglia 
Bitonto 
Blood  of  St.  Januarius 

■ St.  Pantaleon 

Bohemund  of  Antioch 

Bona  Queen  of  Poland    104, 

Bova  -  - 

Bovino 

Brindifi 


C. 

Calabrian  Cuftoms 

1 Horfes 

Opinions 

Cattle 

Calypfo's  Ifle 


Page  418 

397 

169 
280 
104 

98 
410 

-      185 

397 

93 
187 

201.  401 

202.  302 
348 

3*3 


2S3 

"      3*3 

284 

289 

-     325 

Canna: 


I      N 

D 

E       X. 

Cannae  Ruins             -             Page 

163  1 

Duties  on  Merchandize     - 

Page  73 

Canofa 

400 

Duels 

184.  209 

Cape  Colonne 

321 

E. 

Capece  Family 

184 

Caraffa  Fairs ily 

108 

Earthquakes 

133 

Caraccioli  Family 

339 

Eculanum  Ruins 

-     126 

Cariati 

3°7 

Elba  Ifland 

30 

Caflelamare  di  Stabia 

84 

Etrufcan  Vafes 

192 

Cafalnuovo 

220 

Explanations  of  Horace 

-     335 

Cafiiodorus,    Minifter    to    Theodoric 

Exports 

79 

King  of  the  Goths 

3?4 

F. 

Cartel  del  Monte 

393 

Cafiano 

291 

Fata  Morgana 

-      365 

Catanzaro 

331 

Ferdinand  I.  King  of  Naples 

»37-  1S4- 

Caulon  Ruins 

339 

163. 

i?6-  235 

Caudine  Forks 

421 

Fitli  of  Taranto 

242 

Charles  I.  King  of  Naples       148. 

150. 

Foggia     - 

-     138 

168. 

193 

Frederick  II.  Emperor 

132.  148. 

. .11.  King  of  Naples       159 

■  193 

369 

157.  160.  178.  200. 
Frederick  II.  King  of  Sicily 

230.  399 
3*9 

Fruits  of  Calabria 

'        358 

-     253 

Charms  ngainft  Fire-Arms 

324 

ofPuglia 

Characler  of  Neapolitans             6 

3j  62 

Funeral  Ceremonies 

■J  %J 

114 

Cotton  Trade 

369 

. Culture 

219 

G. 

Cotrone 

3*3 

Gallipoli 

368. 

Conrade  IV.  Emperor     139,  400 

•  405 

Game 

163.   174 

Corigliano 

298 

Game  Laws 

Grati  River 

ibid. 

Gerace 

-      34^ 

Cuftoms  of  the  Neapolitans 

113 

Giannone,  Peter 

-          156 
■    188 

Criminal  Jurifprudence 

63 

Giovenazzo 

• 

Gnatia  Ruins 

-     206 

D. 

Gonfalvo  de  Cordova 

179.  265 

Dogana  delle  Pecore 

140 

Gypfies 

305 

Dogs  of  Calabria 

2S7 

H. 

Dog-Eaters 

220 

Duties  on  Fifh 

251 

Hannibal         165.  170.  174 

•  264.  323 

■^     ..--  on  Silk 

355:: 

Heraclea. 

279 
He  radius, 

I      N      D 


X. 


Heraclius,  Statue  of, 


Hunting 


I. 


Jacinthus  of  Bari 
Imports 

Iron  Mine 

Ifabella  Duchefs  of  Milan 


Lavello 

Lawria,  Roger  de 

Lautrec,  Marechal  de 

Lewis  of  Anjou 

Lecce 

Locri  Ruins 

Lucera  -j 

M. 


Page  177 
162 


199 
79 

3* 
192 


87 


405 

3*9 

9i 
186 

380 

34i 
156 


Manfred  King  of  Sicily         105.  139. 

149. 

162.  178.  268.  415 

Manfrcdonia 

147 

Manna 

194.  287 

Manduria  Ruins 

222 

Manufactures 

84 

Marfano  Family 

301 

Mafia 

50 

Meloof  Bari 

172. 198 

Melfi 

409 

Milo  of  Croiona 

294 

Montfort  Family 

IC2 

Monopoli 

2O4. 

Montevergine 

119 

Montefufcolo 

I25 

Mufic 

378.382 

N. 


Nardo 
Nola 


Ofanto  River 
Oil 

Olives 
Oria 


O. 


Pag«375 
"      97 


175-401 
204.  370.  372 

371.373 

218 


p. 

Pipino  of  Minervino 

Pignatelli  Family 

Piombino 

Poggio'Reale 

Ponza  Iflands 

Porto  Ferraio 

Porto  Longone 

Pofiefiions  by  Evil  Spirits 

Purple 

Puolo  Ruins 

Pyrrhus  of  Epire 

Pythagoras 

R. 

Raymond  Orfino 

Ranulph  of  Avellino 

Reggio 

Rene  of  Anjou 

Roger  King  of  Sicily 

Robert  Duke  of  Pu^Sia 

O 

Roger  Earl  of  Sicily 

Roffano 

Rofeto 


201 

1 6.5 

41 

"      95 

46 

30 

4* 

344 

"      239 

83 
262.  280 
217.  316 


102.  260 

icS 


?56 
iq6 


'37 


193 
198 
199 

301 

281. 

Sa:acens. 


INDEX. 


S. 

Saracens        -  - 

Salapia  Ruins 

St.  Thomas  of  Aquino 

St.  Charles  Bjrromeo 

St.  Paulinus 

St.  Nilus 

St.  William  ofVercelli 

St.  Angelo  di  Gargano 

Scanderbeg 

Sebeto  River 

Sebaltian  Kir,g*'of  Portugal 

Sheep 

Sipontum  Ruins 

Silk 

Sorrento 

Spinclli  Family 

Squillacce 

fitilo 

Stabia  Ruins 

Strongoli 

Summons,  Mode  of, 

Svbaris 


Page  158 

188.  327 

-  216 
-         98 

302 
121 

119. 155 

-  95 

328 

228 
149 

357 
86 

3° 1 
333 
338 
82 
312 

335 
291 


141 


T. 


Taranto 

- 

Pag, 

3  180 

Tarantula 

«■ 

- 

395 

Tavoliere 

- 

- 

142 

Tancrcd  King 

of  Sicily 

- 

•3  Hi 

Temple  of  Juno  Lacynii 

- 

321 

Thurium 

- 

- 

294 

Trani 

- 

- 

180 

Troja 

•at 

- 

'37 

V. 

Venereal  Difeafe,  Introduction  of      gj 
Venofa  -  -  406 

Ventotiene  Ifland         -  -        47 

Vcfuvius,  Mount,  -  46.  50 

Voltore  Monte         -  -  408 


W. 

Walnut  Tree  of  the  Witches 
William  I.  King  of  Sicily 


Z. 


Zaleucus  of  Locri 


*  K 


4'7 

200 


343 


DIRECTIONS  for  pacing  the  PLATES. 

Map  of  the  Two  Sicilies,  fronting  the  Title  Page. 

A  Chronological  Table  of  the  Sovereigns  of  the  Two  Sicilies,  to 
be  placed  before  —  —  Page  xvii. 

View  of  Porto  Ferraio,  to  front  —  "—30 

View  of  Porto  Longon  —  —  42 

Villa  of  Pollius  —  —  —  88 

View  of  Bari  —  —  —  1 9  r 

View  of  Taranto  —  —  —      227 

Plan  of  Taranto  ~  —  2>S5 

Plan  of  Brindifi  "-  —  ;-*  384 

View  of  Brindifi  —  —  396 


yuji  Publified) 
Handiomely  printed  in  Quarto, 

TRAVELS  through   SPAIN, 

In  the  Years  1775,   and    1776. 

In  which  feveral  Monuments  of  Roman  and  "Moorish 
Architecture  are  illuftrated  by  accurate  Drawings 
taken  on  the  Spot. 

By  HENRY  SWINBURNE, Efq. 
Printed  for   P.  Elm  sly,    in  the   Strand. 


UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA   LIBRARY 

Los  Angeles 

This  hook  is  DUE  on  the  last  date  stamped  below. 


pr  -  2  1    1Q7° 


Form  L9-Series4939 


CG    821.       S978T 


I 


3  1158  01047  9789 


jg™™  REGIONAL  LIBRARY  FACILITY 


D     000  001  508 


