Nothing could be more noble than [Signora Gabrielli’s] entrance. She took a sweep from the full length of the stage, amidst peals of applause, which seemed as if they would shake the foundation of the theatre.… Expectation was kept on the rack long after her appearance, because she did not sing till after every other performer had had an air and then came Son Regina, and Sono Amante. 

And now I know not what to write. Opinions vary so much that I would to heaven you would come and hear and judge for yourself….
This first song was the only one of any consequence that she sang, all the rest being mere bits. The trio and the duets were really charming. The difficulties in the Son Regina were all in the Davis style, in so much that one would think Miss Davis had been Gabrielli's pupil….

Mr. Burney said that he was prodigiously let down; that she was not within ten degrees of Agujari. Hetty, because she was not an Agujari, would allow her nothing; declared that she would not quit her room to hear her; that she did not care whether she went to another opera the whole season.… Susy was rather more pleased with her. For my part I was overborne by the torrent; but though I by no means could compare her with Agujari, I thought the tone of her voice was extremely sweet, that she sung in a masterly manner, acted judiciously and gracefully, and was only second to Agujari. My father, who has at once more indulgence and more judgement than any of us, came home in much better humour with her than his saucy children. He pronounces her, upon the whole, taking perfections and imperfections together, a very capital singer….

She has very little voice though sweetly toned and polished. She never gave us one shake, nor an idea of one, though I have heard that she has a very fine one. What could possibly put her out of humour, if in reality she did not want the power but the will to do greater things?...

She is the universal subject of conversation, and no two people think alike of her. In the gallery every one seemed to think that she gave herself airs, and would not sing. In the pit, near my father, every lady was delighted with her. 
