<p>A matter which came very near to my heart was to learn of the projected rebuilding of my old organ at Manchester, and in following the reconstruction I noted its many points of improvement with much satisfaction. It was like stepping back across the decades into the years of my young manhood when, in December, 1910, responding to the invitation of Bishop Welldon and Mr. Nicholson, I journeyed to Manchester to collaborate with Dr. Kendrick Pyne in the opening ceremony of what was in fact a new instrument. Dr. Pyne had resigned the organistship of the Cathedral in 1908. It was a graceful act on the part of the Dean and Chapter thus to remember their former chief musicians, and bring them back to the scene of many happy memories to assist in so momentous an event. We greatly appreciated the honour thus conferred. I venture to append some excerpts from an account of the proceedings, written by Mr. Filson Young, an accomplished litterateur and cultured musician, which appeared at the time in the Manchester Guardian. Speaking of Dr. Pyne and myself, he said: "They both looked astonishingly young which is also remarkable; one does not expect anyone to look young who has continued to do any one thing for five-and-thirty years . . . But the playing of both of them was a reminder that experience does not necessarily spell incapacity . . ." And he continued: "It says not a little for Sir Frederick that amid the many duties of his public musical life in London he has retained the executive skill necessary for a performance like this; for technique is nowadays a much more formidable thing than it was in his young days, and it would have been no discredit to him had he chosen to rest on his laurels and not to compete with the younger school. But his playing yesterday was a reminder to younger organists that they are not likely to have things their own way for a long time. He came to Manchester, indeed, not to exhibit his playing, but, one likes to think, out of love for the old place and the old building and no one would have felt the occasion to be complete without him. It is all the more gratifying then to be able to praise his performance, which was particularly good in the Larghetto of Wesley and the Choral Fugue of Merkel; it was delightful to see him and hear him in his old place, where his many friends in Manchester will hope to see and hear him again, and to wish him many more happy years of service in Westminster Abbey." The writer went on to speak in most gratifying terms of the performances of Dr. Pyne, referring to his "direct inheritance of the Wesley tradition."</p>