<p>The third occasion was at Windsor Castle in 1894, when I accompanied Madame Adelina Patti in all her songs. She had come specially from her castle in Wales to sing to the Queen, and had asked me to come to Windsor to play for her. Naturally I looked forward to a very interesting evening, as it indeed proved to be. The Queen sat about twenty feet from the piano and used an opera-glass in looking at Madame Patti, who sang a number of songs. During "Home, Sweet Home" I noticed the Queen wiped the tears from her eyes. When Madame Patti had finished her first song Princess Christian, who sat by the side of the Queen, called to me in German, "Herr Ganz, the Queen wishes to speak to you." I rose immediately and advanced towards the chair where the Queen sat. Her Majesty spoke to me in German, in a lovely melodious voice, asking me what other songs Madame Patti would like to sing. She had a list in her hand, so I named some of them which I thought Her Majesty would like. Among other songs Madame Patti sang one by Princess Henry of Battenberg, who was present with Prince Christian of Schleswig-Holstein and a number of court officials, both ladies and gentlemen. At the end of the concert the Queen spoke for some time with Madame Patti, then rose, and bowed very graciously to Madame Patti and myself and the rest of the company. We then adjourned to a room where supper was served, and Sir William Carington, Comptroller of the Household, handed me, in the name of the Queen, a crocodile leather cigar-case, mounted in gold, with the royal crown and the Queen's initials. I spoke to Lady Ponsonby, one of the ladies-in-waiting, wife of Colonel Sir Henry Ponsonby, Private Secretary to the Queen, whom I had known as Miss Bulteel at Lady Waldegrave's at Nuneham Park, and she said she was very much pleased to renew my acquaint- ance. Next morning I was shown over the State Apartments at Windsor Castle, and saw the various collections of art-treasures. When Madame Patti left the Castle that morn- ing the Great Western express was specially stopped for her at Slough by Royal Command, so that she could get back to Craig-y-nos that day. On her arrival home she received a gracious telegram from Queen Victoria hoping she had had a comfortable journey, and later a signed photograph. My daughter Adelina, who was staying at Craig-y-nos, and travelled with her, told me that, although tired from her early start, she insisted on keeping awake the whole journey in case sleeping should affect her voice, as she considers sleep before singing injurious to the voice.</p>