<p style="text-align: justify;">I went one day to dine with my witty countryman, Curran, the Master of the Rolls, at his pretty place at Rathfarnham. Among his guests was Counsellor Mac Nally, the author of the opera of "Robin Hood." I passed a delightful day there. Many pleasant stories were told after dinner ; among others, one of Mac Nally's, to prove the predilection which some of our countrymen formerly had for getting into scrapes, when they first arrived in London. The night his opera of " Robin Hood" was brought out at Covent Garden Theatre, a young Irish friend of his, on his first visit to London, was seated on the second seat in the front boxes ; on the front row were two gentlemen, who, at the close of the first act, were saying how much they liked the opera, and that it did great credit to Mrs. Cowley, who wrote it. On hearing this, my Irish friend got up, and tapping one of them on the shoulder, said to him, "Sir, you say that this opera was written by Mrs. Cowley ; now, I say it was not: this opera was written by Leonard Mac Nally, Esq. Barrister at Law, of No. 5, Pump Court, in the Temple. Do you take my word for it. Sir?" "Most certainly, Sir," replied the astonished gentleman; "and I feel very much obliged for the in- formation you have so politely given me. "Umph! very well, Sir," said he, and sat down. At the end of the second act, he got up, and again accosted the same gentleman, saying, "Sir, upon your honour, as a gentleman, are you in your own mind perfectly satisfied that Leonard Mac Nally, Esq. Barrister at Law, of No. 5, Pump Court, in the Temple, has actually written this opera, and not Mrs. Cowley?" "Most perfectly persuaded of it, Sir," said the gentleman, bowing. "Then, Sir," said the young Irishman, "I wish you a good night;"&nbsp; but just as he was leaving the box, he turned to the gentleman whom he had been addressing, and said, "Pray, Sir, permit me to ask, is your friend there convinced, that this opera was written by Mr. Mac Nally, Barrister at Law, of No. 5, Pump Court, in the Temple ?" " Decidedly, Sir," was the reply; "we are both fully convinced of the correctness of your statement." "Oh, then, if that is the case, I have nothing more to say," said the Hibernian, "except that if you had not both assured me you were so, neither of you should be sitting quite so easy on your seats as you do now." After this parting observation, he withdrew, and did not return to the box.</p>