<p><span lang="EN-GB" style="mso-ansi-language: EN-GB;">The way things have worked out, I have recently been separated from my favourite orchestra. It is working in Novosibirsk, and I am living in Kuibyshev. I need hardly describe my joy when I learned that it was interested in my Seventh Symphony. I excitedly set off for Novosibirsk to see my dear friends again. / The first rehearsal I attended took place on 29 June. The concerts were to be given on 9, 11, 12 and 15 July. The orchestra had the symphony ready for performance in ten days &ndash; a very short time, considering the length and complexity of the work. Yevgeny Mravinsky was conducting. / I spent almost a month in Novosibirsk, where I once again felt myself steeped in the familiar Leningrad atmosphere. Far away in the middle of Siberia I suddenly remembered Leningrad, to which I had become unaccustomed and for which I longed so desperately. During the rehearsals and concerts I again became aware of the city&rsquo;s high level of culture and of its interest in art, which is so important in the creative process. / I should like to say that it was not only Mravinsky and his orchestra&rsquo;s talent and diligence which contributed to the great success of my symphony. No less important was the wealth of artistic experience accumulated by them over long years of work. Both Mravinsky and the Leningrad Philharmonic have learned and performed many excellent works of different styles. Together they have attained that level of universality which is the hallmark of truly great artists. I should say in passing that is at this kind of universality that all Soviet composers and performers ought to be aiming. We should be able to play everything, and compose in all genres. / I eagerly awaited the premi&egrave;re of the work in Novosibirsk. And I must say that I was truly amazed by the artistry of the performance and the precision with which the score was interpreted. / It was nice to note that despite long months of separation from these beloved home town, the Leningrad Philharmonic Orchestra has carefully preserved all its finest qualities, and even added to them in many ways. The orchestra won the wholehearted admiration of their audiences in Novosibirsk. / I, too, shall never forget my joy at hearing their performance of my symphony.&nbsp;</span></p>