TWO SHILLINGS 



Captain cSro.noto's 

Celebrities 



/m 



<^I 



\\BB& 



ba< 



*YB 



S^SSS 



&eon«ianj»niEk. 



of UorvtujTi'anti Mam 



«N. SMITH,. ELBER, i G0. 



ANECDOTES 



OF 



CELEBRITIES OF LONDON AND PARIS, 



TO WHICH ARE ADDED 



THE LAST RECOLLECTIONS 



OF CAPTAIN GRONOW, 



FORMERLY OF THE FIRST FOOT GUARDS. 



A NEW EDITION. 



LONDON: 
SMITH, ELDER & CO., 15, WATERLOO PLACE. 

1870. 



CONTENTS. 



Almack'a in 1815, .... 

The Duke of Wellington and the Cavalry, 

The Duke at Carlton House, 

The Duke and the Author, 

Wellington's First Campaign, . 

The Guards and the Umbrellas, 

Colonel Freemantle and the Duke's Quarters, 

A Word for Brown Bess, 

A Strange Rencontre, .... 

English and French Soldiers on the Boulevards, 

" Date obolum Belisario," 

"Hats off," 

Hatred of the Prussians by the French Peasantry, 

Severe Discipline in the Russian Army, 

The Emperor Alexander in Paris, 

A Fire-Eater Cowed, .... 

An Insult Rightly Redressed, . 

A Duel between Two Old Friends, 

A Duel between Two Officers in the Life Guards, 

Fayot, the Champion of the Legitimists, 

The Gardes du Corps, .... 

The late Marshal Castellane, 

The late General Gabriel, 

Admiral de la Susse, .... 



PAGE 

1 
2 

4 
4 
8 
1(J 
11 
12 
13 
15 
16 
16 
18 
19 
2(1 
21 
22 
23 
23 
24 
24 
28 
31 



VI 



Contents. 



Marshal Lobau, . 

Montrond, 

Chateaubriand, . 

Parson Ambrose, 

Captain Wilding, 

The Church Militant, . 

Louis XVIII., . 

The Bridge of Jena Saved, 

Louis XVIII. and Sosth&nes de la Rochefoucauld, 

The Due de Grammont, 

The Montmorencies, 

Ouvrard the Financier, 

Madame de Stael, 

A Feminine Foible, 

Mademoiselle le Xormand, 

An Ominous Fall, 

Louis Philippe and Marshal Soult, 

Decamps and the Duke of Orleans, 

Fashion in Paris, 

Literary Salons in France, 

Sir John Elley, . 

An English Dandy in Paris, 

Sheridan and the Electors of Stafford, 

Sheridan at Drury-Lane Theatre, 

Shelley's Fight at Eton, 

Epigram by Canning, 

Mr Canning and Lord Lyndhuryt, 

Crockford's Club, 

" King " Allen, . 

Ball Hughes, 

Scrope Davies, . 

Thomas Moore, . 

Francis Hare, 

Theodore Hook, . 

Cosway the Painter, 



I'AOK 

34 
35 
36 
36 
37 
38 
38 
39 
40 
40 
42 
45 
48 
52 
52 
55 
55 
56 
57 
64 
69 
70 
71 
76 
79 
80 
81 
81 
86 
89 
93 
96 
98 
101 
101 



Contents. 



vn 





PACK 


Martin Hawke, ....... 


102 


Lord Normanby, ...... 


103 


A Mother in Israel, ....... 


108 


Equipages in London and Paris — The Four-in-hand Club, 


108 


Kate North, ...... 


114 


Sally Brooke, ...... 


118 


Madame Grassini, ..... 


120 


Piety of Madame Catalani, .... 


122 


Miss T and the Perverts, .... 


123 


Rachel's Debut, ...... 


124 


Rachel and Judith, ..... 


125 


Rossini, ....... 


125 


Pio Nono's Flight to Gaeta, .... 


128 


Sudden turns of Fortune in France, 


. 132 


Parisian Cockneydom, ..... 


135 


Improvements in Paris, .... 


140 


French Criminal Jurisprudence, 


143 


The Paris Insurrection of 1848, 


147 


French Statesmen and Journalists in 1851 — 




M. Guizot, ...... 


. 151 


M. Thiers, ...... 


. 152 


Lamartine, ...... 


. 153 


Prince Louis Napoleon. .... 


154 


The Coup d'Etat— 




State of Public Feeling in Paris, . 


156 


The Prince-President, .... 


157 


M. de Morny, ..... 


159 


The Night of December 1, 


160 


The Arrests, ..... 


163 


Paris on December 2, 


165 


Louis Napoleon at the Elysee, 


. 168 


Reception of the Prince-President, 


. 171 


Alarm of the Parisians, .... 


. 172 


The Legislative Assembly, 


. 174 


The 3d and 4th of December, 


. 177 



Vlll 



Contents. 



The Coup d'fitat — continv.td. 

What the Author Saw, 

Groundless Fabrications, . 
Camp Life during the Peninsular Wa; 
A Foraging Party on the Adour, 
General Sir Warren Peacocke, Governor of Lisbon, 
Frank Russell at the Battle of the Pyrenees. 
Hunting in the Pyrenees, 1S13, 1814, . 
Dysentery in the Peninsula, 
A Daring Exploit, 
My Soldier-Servant, 
Sir Thomas Styles, 
Sir John Elley of the " Blues," 
Jack Talbot of the Guards, 
"Teapot" Crawfurd, . 
The Guards' Club, 

General Thornton and Theodore Hook, 
The Heroic Lady Waldegrave, . 
Colonel, alias " Jemmy," Cochrane of the Guards, 
Mr Cornewall and the Provost-Sergeant, 
Arma Virumque Cano, . 
Sir Jerry Coghlan, 

Lord Jersey and an Officer of the Guards, 
Lord Castlereagh and Sir E. Pakenham, 
Louis Philippe at Twickenham, 
Eton College in 1810, . 
Flogging at Eton, under Dr Keate, 
George IV. when Prince of Wales, 
Beau Brummel's Aunt, Mrs Searle, 
One Way out of a Dilemma, 
Anecdote of a Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland, 
Mr Lawrence, the Celebrated Surgeon, 
Escapade of an Officer of the 3d Foot Guards, 
The Good Fortune of a Pretty Woman, 
Colonel, or " Bull," Townshend, 



181 
183 
180 
190 
193 
197 
200 
201 
202 
204 
205 
206 
208 
210 
211 
212 
213 
214 
215 
217 
21.9 
221 
222 
2 ;> 3 
224 
226 
226 
227 
229 
229 
230 
231 
233 
236 



Contents. 



IX 



PAGK 

The Marquis d'Aligre and the Dentist, . . . 237 

The French Emigres, ...... 239 

The Emperor Alexander, ..... 241 

An Incident at the Battle of Borodino, . . . 241 

General Jacqueminot, ...... 242 

The Emperor's Fur Cloak, ..... 243 

A Marriage Quickly Arranged, ..... 244 

Napoleon the First's Love of Music, .... 246 

Parting of Napoleon and Madame Mere, . . . 248 

Prince Euge"ne Beauharnais, ..... 248 

The Present Emperor of the French when a Buy, . . 249 
Jerome Bonaparte and Cardinal Fesch, . . .251 
The Czar and the Apple Girl, . . . . .251 

De Souza, the Portuguese Ambassador, . . . 252 

Lord Hay and the Prince Kegent, .... 254 

The Prince Eegent and Carlton House, . . . 255 

Lord Barrymore, ...... 257 

Lord Byron and Dan Mackinnon, .... 259 

Caricature on the Allied Sovereigns, .... 260 

Breguet, the French Watchmaker, . . . .261 

Labedoyere and the Number Thirteen, . . . 262 

Fouche and Carnot, ...... 262 

L'Enf ant de Troupe, ...... 263 

Incident at a Ball at the British Embassy in Paris, 1816, . 264 

Unknown Persons at a Ball at the British Embassy, Paris, . 265 

A Musician's Reproof, ...... 267 

Lord Alvanley, ....... 268 

Sir Astley Cooper and the Troop Horses, . . . 269 

Italian Brigandage in 1815, ..... 270 

Madame de Stael and Mr Canning, .... 273 

The Duchess of Duras, ...... 273 

Mr and Mrs Graham — their Soirees, .... 274 

Mr Williams Hope and his Mistress, .... 276 

How to get Invited to a Ball, ..... 277 

Melancholy Result of a Ball, ..... 278 



X 



Contents. 



PAGE 

A Eoland for an Oliver, ..... 279 

Sir Charles Shakerley, ...... 279 

" Taking the Bull hy the Horns," . . . .280 

Eagget, of White's Club, 2S2 

The Cafe Tortoni, ...... 283 

An Inveterate Gambler, ..... 287 

Colonel Sebright of the Guards, . . . .288 

The Princess Charlotte of Wales, . . . .290 

The Duke of Clarence, ...... 291 

The Origin of " Shocking Bad Hat," .... 294 

Englishmen in Paris in 1S17, . . . . .294 

The Bold Wife of a Rash Husband, . . . .297 

A Mishap at Almack's, ...... 297 

Sir Astley Cooper, ...... 299 

Lady Holland and " the Bridge," . . . .300 

The Bishop of Exeter and his Son, .... 300 

Lord Deerhurst, (afterwards Lord Coventry,) . . .301 

MrNeeld, 302 

Mrs Beaumont, ....... 303 

Windsor Castle in 1819, . . . . . 305 

A Shoulder of Mutton a la Soubise, .... 307 

Attempt to Assassinate trie Prince Regent, . . . 308 

Coronation of George IV., ..... 309 

George IV. and Bishop Porteous, . . . .310 

Latter Days of George IV., ..... 311 

Death and Funeral of the Duke of York, . . . 312 

Colonel the Honourable II. Stanhope, . . . .312 

Sir Robert Peel's Hat, ...... 313 

An Irish Welcome, . , . . . .314 

The Prince do Poix, . . . . . .314 

Lady Normanby's Ball at the British Embassy, Paris, . 314 

Louis Philippe's Sons at a Masked Ball, . . .315 

Count Talleyrand Perigord's Private Theatricals, . . 31G 

Prince Talleyrand's Opinion of the Duke of Wellington, . 317 
Mots of Talleyrand, . . . . .319 



Contents. 



XI 



The Emperor Nicholas at the Hague, . 

Tne Prince de Ligne, 

Pride of a Spanish Grandee, 

The Emperor's Extra Equerry, 

The Duke of Wellington and Lord Strangford. 

Marshal Magnan's Opinion of British Soldiers, 

Marshal Canrobert Reviewing the British Army, 

A Beady Eetort, 

An Act of Charity, 

Madame Alboni, 

The Derby of 1865 and French Racing, 





PAr,E 




. 320 




. 320 




. 322 




322 


, 


323 


) • 


324 


my, 


324 


. 


325 


i • 


325 


« 


326 


• « • 


327 



CELEBRITIES OF LONDON AND PARIS, 



Almack's in 1815. — The personages delineated on 
the cover are well worthy of notice, both from the 
position they held in the fashionable world, and 
from their being represented with great truth 
and accuracy- The great George Brummell, the 
admirable Crichton of the age, stands in a degage 
attitude, with his fingers in his waistcoat pocket. 
His neckcloth is inimitable, and must have cost him 
much time and trouble to arrive at such perfection ; 
as the following anecdote shows. A friend calling 
on the beau saw the valet with an armful of flowing 
white cravats, and asked him if his master wanted 
so many at once. " These, sir, are our failures," 
was the reply. " Clean linen, and plenty of it," 
was Brummell's maxim. He is talking earnestly to 
the charming Duchess of Kutland, who was a 
Howard, and mother to the present Duke. The 
tall man, in a black coat, who is preparing to waltz 
with Princess Esterhazy, so long ambassadress of 
Austria in London, is the Comte de St Antonio, 
afterwards Duke of Canizzaro. He resided many 
years in England, was a very handsome man, and 

A. 



2 The Duke of Wellington and the Cavalry. 

a great lady-killer ; he married an English heiress, 
Miss Johnson. 

The original sketch from which these figures are 
taken, included also portraits of Charles, Marquis 
of Queensberry, Baron Neumann, at that time secre- 
tary of the Austrian Embassy ; the late Sir George 
Warrender (who was styled by his friends Sir George 
Provender, being famed for his good dinners) ; and 
the handsome Comte St Aldegonde, afterwards a 
general, and at this period aide-de-camp to Louis 
Philippe, then Duke of Orleans. 

The sketch was made in water-colours, from a 
group of these celebrities at a ball at Almack's, and' 
was given to Brummell by the artist who executed 
it ; it was highly prized by the king of the dandies, 
and was purchased at the sale of his effects in 
Chapel Street by the person who gave it to me. 

The Duke of Wellington and the Cavalry. 
— About three weeks after the battle of Waterloo I 
received orders from the Horse Guards to join my 
battalion in London. Two of my brother- officers 
who had gone over to Paris, Tom Brooke and Hun- 
ter, the adjutant, who were to accompany me, re- 
quested me to return by way of Brussels, as they 
were very anxious to see the field of Waterloo. I 
complied with their request, and acted as their 
cicerone. On the following day we arrived in 
Brussels, and dined, a few days afterwards, with 
General Sir George Cooke, who had commanded our 
division, and lost an arm. He was still suffering 
from his wound, and was living at the hotel where 
supper had been ordered for the Emperor Napoleon 
in anticipation of his certain triumph on the 18th. 



The Duke of Wellington and the Cavalry. 3 

Sir George observed to us that it was lucky for 
Lord Uxbridge that the field had been won by us ; 
for had this not been the case, he would have got 
into an awkward scrape for having engaged tho 
cavalry without orders from the Duke. From what 
Sir George seemed to think, it was evidently the 
Duke's intention to keep the cavalry in hand, and 
perfectly fresh, so that they might have charged the 
French squadrons when the latter had exhausted 
themselves in their attacks on our squares. To 
corroborate this opinion, he told us an anecdote of 
the war in Spain, which may be interesting, as shew- 
ing how opposed the Duke was to the harum-scarum 
custom of our cavalry officers, who hurled their men 
at full gallop on the enemy, without supports, and 
without any actual plan or intimation beyond the 
ardour of a sportsman going at a five-barred gate. 

He stated, when Sir Stapleton Cotton went out 
to take the command of the cavalry, at his first in- 
terview with Lord Wellington, his chief addressed 
him as follows : — " General Cotton, I am glad 
to see you in command of the cavalry ; and I wish 
you to bear in mind that cavalry should be always 
held well in hand ; that your men and horses should 
not be used up in wild and useless charges, but put 
forward when you are sure that their onset will 
have a decisive effect. Above all, remember that you 
had better not engage, as a general rule, unless you 
see an opportunity of attacking the French with a 
superior force. In Spain, the Germans, the 14th 
Light Dragoons, and perhaps the 12th, under Fred. 
Fonsonby, were the only regiments that knew their 
duty and did not get into scrapes of every descrip- 
tion." 



The Duke and the Author, 



The Duke at Carlton House. — The Duke of 
Wellington dined frequently with the Prince Re- 
gent, who, when he had finished his iced punch 
and a bottle of sherry, began to be garrulous. The 
Regent would invariably talk about the battle of 
Waterloo, and speak of the way in which he had 
charged the French with the Household Brigade : 
upon one occasion he was so far gone that he 
had the temerity to tell the Duke he had com- 
pletely bowled over the French cavalry commanded 
by Marshal Ney. This was too much for the Duke 
to swallow, and he said, " I have heard you, sir, say 
so before ; but I did not witness this marvellous 
charge. Your Royal Highness must know that the 
French cavalry are the best in Europe." 

At this same dinner Sir Watkyns William Wynn 
asked the illustrious Duke whether he had a good 
view of the battle of Waterloo, whereupon the 
Baronet got the following laconic reply, " I generally 
like to see what I am about." 

The Duke and the Author. — As everything 
connected with the Duke of Wellington is re- 
ceived with pleasure by the public, and as what 
I am going to relate is well known to many of my 
contemporaries, who have often urged me to put it 
into print, I am encouraged to relate an anecdote in 
which I played a prominent part, and which, though 
it happened forty-five years ago, made so deep 
an impression on my mind that I can narrate the 
circumstances as correctly as if they had occurred 
yesterday. 

After leaving the Guards in 1821, I spent some 
time in Paris, where several of my friends had 



The Duke and the Author. 



established themselves, and we all pronounced it to 
be the most delightful city in the world. I remem- 
ber Luttrell, at a dinner where several alliterative 
toasts were given, such as London and Liberty, 
Edinburgh and Education, giving as his toast, Paris 
and Pocket-money. That most agreeable of men was 
seldom wrong in anything that he said ; and in those 
days, as we all possessed plenty of the second ingre- 
dient of his " sentiment," we passed a most agreeable 
time, and perhaps lived "not wisely but too well ;" 
at all events we enjoyed ourselves immensely 

In the midst of this very pleasant existence, I 
happened to call, one morning, upon the Princess 

M , who lived in the Rue Basse du Eempart. 

No sooner had we shaken hands than she began 
speaking of the Duke of Wellington, who had 
arrived for a few days to see the King, and who 
was then about to leave Paris. She asked me if I 
was aware that I was no favourite with his Grace, 
and that he had even spoken of me in no measured 
terms. I replied that I had not the honour of 
knowing the Duke personally, and that my position 
was too humble a one to attract his notice. " You 

are mistaken," said Madame de M ; " he has 

doubtless heard very unfavourable reports of your 
character, for he has warned young Paul Lieven to 
beware of forming any intimacy with a man addicted 
to gambling and the society of opera-dancers and 
actresses, as such an acquaintance might not only 
lead him astray now, but be very detrimental to 
his prospects in after-life." 

After hearing this agreeable communication, I 
lost no time in calling on my intimate friend, 
Captain Hesse, a natural son of the Duke of York's, 



The Duke and the Author, 



and who was at that time an officer in the 18th 
Hussars. I related to mjjidus Achates what had 
been told me by the Princess, and asked his advice 
as to the line of conduct I ought to pursue. 

Hesse, who was personally well known to the 
Duke, offered to call at the English Embassy, where 
his Grace was staying, and ask for some explana- 
tion of so unwarrantable an attack. Unluckily, the 
great man had left for London, with Lord Fitzroy 
Somerset, that very morning. Hesse and I, there- 
fore, concocted a letter to the Duke, in which I 
entreated his Grace to tell me if the lady's report 
was correct, as it appeared to me incomprehensible 
that a person of his exalted station should have 
thus attacked the private character of a man totally 
unknown to him. 

This letter was duly forwarded to London, but did 
not reach the Duke there ; for on his arrival in town 
he had found an invitation from the Prince Eegent 
to pass some days with him at the Pavilion at 
Brighton, where my letter was placed in his hands. 
His Grace, with that promptitude for which he was 
always so remarkable, replied to me in a letter of 
four pages. I regret that this document, upon 
which I always placed a high value, is no longer in 
my hands. I lent it to Count d'Orsay, who was 
anxious to have a copy of it ; and notwithstanding 
that a strict search has been made, since his death, 
amongst the papers that he left behind him, in the 
possession of his sister, the Duchesse de Grammont, 
I have not been able to recover a document of so 
much value to me and to society : for it expresses 
the opinions of a man whose every thought was 
certain to be respected and well received. 



The Duke and the Author. 



The Duke's letter was complimentary to me in- 
dividually, and gave a most decided denial of his 
having uttered any expression that could be con- 
sidered derogatory to me. He had, he admitted, 
given some advice to young Count Lieven, but these 
counsels had no reference to any of his associates. He 
added that he could not have spoken in such terms of 
me, as he was totally unacquainted with either my 
habits or my tastes. To the lady he never could 
have mentioned my name, as he had not once been 
in her society during his short visit to Paris. He had 
never made any observations about the imprudence 
or follies of gamblers, for in fact some of the best 
friends he had in the world belonged to that cate- 
gory. He concluded a most dignified letter in his 
characteristic style, by saying that if I was not fully 
convinced of his not deserving the imputation that 
had been cast upon him of abusing me, he was per- 
fectly ready to give me any satisfaction that I might 
think proper to demand. 

I cannot call to mind, even at this distance of 
time, the noble conduct of the great Duke on this 
occasion without feeling deeply affected. 

Throughout the whole of his eventful career, the 
Duke of Wellington always placed first and fore- 
most, far above his military and social honours, his 
position as an English gentleman. How few in his 
Grace's exalted station would have condescended 
even to notice such a letter as mine, worded though 
it was in a most respectful manner, or have deigned 
to give so full and ample an explanation ; and how 
few would, like the truly great man, have waved their 
high military rank in a discussion with an obscure 
subaltern, and declared themselves ready to give him 



Wellington's First Campaign. 



redress sur le champ, if he still considered himself 
injured and aggrieved. 

I am proud to think that the great Duke did not 
bear malice, or think any the worse of me for the 
explanation I had demanded. In the year 1824, I 
happened to be walking one morning in the Park, 
near Apsley House, with my friend Charles, com- 
monly called Cornet Wortley. We had not been 
there long when we met the Duke, who called 
Wortley to him, and, after a short conversation, as 
I stood on one side, I heard him ask Wortley who 
I was, and on his answering, as I took off my hat 
the Duke smiled, touched his, and nodded to me 
most good-naturedly several times. 

Wellington's First Campaign. — The Duke of 
Wellington had in his early career lost a consider- 
able sum of money at play, and had been on the 
point of selling his commission in Dublin, with the 
view of relieving himself from some debts of 
honour which he had incurred. 

At a dinner party at Mr Greenwood's, of that 
excellent firm, Cox & Greenwood, I met Sir 
Harry Calvert, then Adjutant-Genera], who accom- 
panied the Duke of York as one of his staff in his 
disastrous campaign in Holland ; and he told us 
the following anecdote . — Lord Camden, the viceroy, 
had been applied to by Lord Mornington, the 
brother of Captain Wesley, (so his name was then 
spelt,) for a Commissionership of Customs, or any- 
thing else in the gift of the Lord-Lieutenant of 
Ireland, as it was the intention of the Captain to 
sell his commission to pay his debts. Lord Camden, 
in an interview with Captain Wesley, inquired 



Wellington's First Campaign. 



whether he left the army in disgust, or what 
motive induced him to relinquish a service in 
which he was well qualified to distinguish himself. 
Captain Wesley explained everything that had 
occurred, upon which the Lord- Lieu tenant expressed 
a wish to be of service to him. " What can I do 
for you ■? Point out any plan by which you can be 
extricated from your present difficulties." The 
answer was, "I have no alternative but to sell my 
commission ; for I am poor, and unable to pay off my 
debts of honour." " Eemain in the army,"' said Lord 
Camden, "and I will assist you in paying off your 
liabilities." " I should like to study my profession at 
Angers," replied the young soldier ; " for the French 
are the great masters of the art of war." Lord Cam- 
den assented to the proposition, supplied him with 
the means of living in France, and paid his debts. 

Captain Wellesley, availing himself of the generous 
assistance thus offered, spent a considerable time at 
the Military School at Angers, where he laboured 
with intense application, and laid the foundation of 
that military reputation which placed him above 
all competitors. It was this education that enabled 
him to gain his first laurels. On his return to 
England, he was ordered to join the Duke of York 
in Flanders, as Major of the 33d Eegiment of Foot ; 
and the Colonel and first Major being absent, the 
command of the regiment devolved upon him. The 
expedition landed near Furnes in the Netherlands, 
the crack regiments first ; and these, directly they 
set foot on shore, advanced helter-skelter, fancying 
themselves on the high-road to Paris. 

When the 33d disembarked, Major Wellesley, 
knowing French tactics, addressed himself to Cap- 



10 The Guards and the Umbrellas. 

tain Calvert, the Duke of York's aide-de-camp, point- 
ing out the certainty of a speedy attack of the 
enemy's cavalry and artillery, and the great prob- 
ability that every man who had advanced would 
be cut to pieces. He said, "Pray, allow me to form 
squares of divisions upon the beach before it is too 
late." This was done, and almost immediately 
afterwards, Vandamme, with the whole of his cavalry, 
supported by artillery, came down, threatening to 
sweep everything before them. Our troops rapidly 
dispersing, luckily found the 33d in square, and 
were thus saved from annihilation. The Duke of 
York observing this adroit and ready manoeuvre on 
the part of the young Major, called him to his 
council, and gave him the command of the rear- 
guard. After continually fighting and retreating 
for several weeks, the army embarked for Eng- 
land. 

The reputation thus gained led to Major AVel- 
lesley's appointment in India, where he displayed 
those abilities which marked him out as the only 
man to oppose, and finally to conquer, the greatest 
of modern generals. 

The lesson the Duke of Wellington had learnt at 
the gambling-table, as a young man, was deeply im- 
pressed upon him : he never afterwards touched a 
card ; and so firmly did he set his face against 
gambling, that, in Paris, none of his staff, from 
Lord Fitzroy Somerset down to Freemantle, was 
ever to be seen either at Frascati's or the Salon des 
Etrangers. 

The Guards and the Umbrellas. — During the 
action of the 10th of December 1813, commonly 



Colonel Freemantle and the Duke's Quarters. 1 1 

known as that of the Mayor's House, in the neigh- 
bourhood of Bayonne, the Grenadier Guards, under 
the command of Colonel Tynling, occupied an un- 
finished redoubt on the right of the high-road. The 
Duke of Wellington happened to pass with Free- 
mantle and Lord A. Hill, on his return to head- 
quarters, having satisfied himself that the fighting 
was merely a feint on the part of Soult. His Grace 
on looking around saw, to his surprise, a great many 
umbrellas, with which the officers protected them- 
selves from the rain that was then falling. Arthur 
Hill came galloping up to us saying, " Lord Welling- 
ton does not approve of the use of umbrellas during 
the enemy's firing, and will not allow ' the gentle- 
men's sons ' * to make themselves ridiculous in the 
eyes of the army." Colonel Tynling, a few days 
afterwards, received a wigging from Lord Welling- 
ton for suffering his officers to carry umbrellas in 
the face of the enemy ; his Lordship observing, 
" The Guards may in uniform, when on duty at St 
James's, carry them if they please ; but in the field 
it is not only ridiculous but unmilitary." 

Colonel Freemantle and the Duke's Quar- 
ters. — When the British army was in full retreat 
from Burgos, Colonel Freemantle was sent by Lord 
Wellington to look out for comfortable quarters for 
himself and his staff. Freemantle, after galloping 
over many miles of desolate country, could only dis- 
cover a hut. Accordingly a good fire was prepared 
for the Commander of the Forces, and every prepara- 
tion made for his reception. After Freemantle had 

* " They are worthy the name given them by the army, that ?f 
gentlemen's sons." 



12 A Word for Brown Bess. 

communicated with his Lordship, he lost bo time in 
returning, when, to his surprise, he found the hut 
occupied by an officer of the line, who, standing 
with his back turned to the blazing fire, was whistling 
" for want of thought." The aide-de-camp politely 
told the officer that the hut had been secured for 
Lord Wellington, and therefore begged he would 
retire. The officer flatly refused, saying he would 
not give it up to Lord Wellington, or to Old Nick 
himself. " Well, then, I must use force : the pro- 
vost-marshal shall be sent for, whose prisoner you 
will be until a court-martial shall sit for disobedi- 
ence of orders/' The officer surrendered at discre- 
tion, and was never more seen at head-quarters. 

This anecdote was told to Brummell at White's 
Club by Freemantle on his return to England, when 
the beau exclaimed, " If I had been in your place, 
Freemantle, I should have rung the bell, and desired 
the servants to kick the fellow down-stairs." 

A Word for Brown Bess. — When the British 
army invested Bayonne, it fell to my lot to be on 
outpost duty, and I then and there saw a long 
shot fired from one of our old muskets which shewed 
that Brown Bess, though not equalling our modern 
weapons, had yet some good solid merits of her own, 
and when held straight was not to be despised even 
at a long range. Several shots had been fired from 
the French pickets, when Captain Grant of the 1st 
Foot Guards, being the senior officer on duty, came 
to me to inquire the cause of the firing, and desired 
me to make my way to the front and endeavour to 
ascertain what had occurred. Having arrived near 
the ravine which separated us from the French, I 



A Strange Rencontre. 13 

stumbled upon an advanced sentry, a German, who 
was coolly smoking his pipe. I asked him whether 
the shots that had been heard came from his neigh- 
bourhood, upon which he replied in broken English, 
" Yes, zir, that feelow you see yonder has fired nine 
times at mine target," (meaning his body,) " but has 
missed. I hopes you, Capitaine, will let me have 
one shot at him." The distance between the French 
picket and ours could not have been less than 400 
yards ; so, without giving myself time to think, I 
said, "Yes, you can have one shot at him." He 
levelled his musket, fired, and killed his man ; where- 
upon, a sergeant and two or three French soldiers 
who had seen him fall, ran down to the front and 
removed the body. 

A Strange Eencontre. — On the 10th of Novem- 
ber 1813, while the light companies of the Cold- 
stream and 3d Guards were skirmishing in front 
of Irun, the present Sir Wyndham Anstruther, then 
an officer in the Coldstream Guards, was severely 
wounded by a musket-ball just below the knee ; and 
had he not received the most unceasing attention 
from the surgeon, Mr Eose, he would in all prob- 
ability have lost his leg. When the army commanded 
by the Duke of Wellington advanced, in the early 
part of the spring of 1814, Mr Eose recommended 
Mr Anstruther to return to England on sick leave ; 
and he was placed, on his arrival, under the care of 
the celebrated surgeon, Sir Everard Home, by whose 
skill he completely recovered, but was not able to 
join the British army before it had reached Paris 
after the battle of Waterloo. Mr Anstruther re- 
mained several months in Paris, and in the early 



14 A Strange Rencontre. 

part of 1816, after dining one clay with Mr Boul- 
ton, an old friend, who had hired a country-house 
at St Maur, two leagues beyond Vincennes, was re- 
turning to towi. in a small carriage upon two wheels, 
called a coucou, commonly used in those days, and 
which travelled at the rate of about five miles an 
hour. Having placed himself on the front seat out- 
side with the driver, after a time they got into con- 
versation, and thinking, from his appearance, that he 
looked like an old soldier, Mr Anstruther inquired 
whether he had served ; to which the coachman an- 
swered in the affirmative, mentioning the number of 
his regiment aDd the battles in which he had taken 
part , and he added that he was afraid he had killed 
an English officer in front of Iran, on the banks of 
the Bidassoa. Mr Anstruther naturally felt surprised 
at what he had heard, knowing that he was the only 
officer hit at the time and place specified, so he ques- 
tioned the driver as to the nature of the ground, and 
his reasons for being so sure of having killed the 
officer. The man at once said that about three 
o'clock on the 1 Oth of November, he and a few com- 
rades ran down from Iran into a small clump of 
brushwood about half way between the town and 
the hedges lined by the English ; that they had not 
been there long before they wounded one of the 
Englishmen, and that an officer sprang forward to 
the assistance of the wounded soldier, when he, the 
coachman, fired and hit the officer, who fell, to all 
appearance, mortally wounded. The driver was per- 
fectly astonished when informed that the English 
officer he thought he had killed was still alive and 
sitting by his side. The old soldier even shed (or 
pretended to shed) tears of joy ; and after a minute 



English and French Soldiers on the Boulevards. 15 



examination of dates and details, Mr Anstruther 
presented his quondam enemy with a couple oi 
napoleons to drink his health. This he did, after 
placing his carriage in the yard of the village inn, 
and to some purpose, for he got very drunk, to the 
amusement of the villagers, to whom he recounted 
his story, and who carried him in triumph upon 
their shoulders, crying, " Vive l'officier Anglais ! " 

English and Fkench Soldiers on the Boule- 
vards. — In 1815, during the period when the English 
Guards were doing garrison-duty in Paris, the usual 
rendezvous of the soldiers was on the Boulevard du 
Temple, where Punch and Judy performed to the 
great amusement of our brave comrades. It was 
also the custom at the same period for the dis- 
charged officers of the Army of the Loire to con- 
gregate there ; and I remember witnessing the fol- 
lowing incident : — During the performance of Punch, 
a diminutive, humpbacked man made himself very 
noisy and troublesome to those in front of him. 
Two officers, wearing the Cross of the Legion of 
Honour, were much annoyed at this, and requested 
the dwarf to keep quiet, and to leave off annoying 
them. The diminutive gentleman replied by abus- 
ing them, and calling them sacres Bonapartistes, 
an epithet of a disagreeable kind at that period, for 
it was not safe to be known by that denomination. 
The taller of the two officers, not relishing the im- 
pertinence of the dwarf, took him off the ground, 
placed him upon his shoulders, and walked up to 
M. Guignol, saying, " Take back your Punchinello ; 
he has lost himself, (il s'est egare entre nos 
jambes.) v Our soldiers, who witnessed this practi- 



1G "Hats Off." 



cal joke and well-deserved lesson, gave the French 
officer three cheers. This mark of sympathy from 
an enemy had its desired effect, for it produced 
a good feeling ever after, and we became on excel- 
lent terms with our former brave antagonists, 
whom the fortune of war had deprived of their 
rank and pay, and who were much to be pitied 
under the species of ostracism to which they were 
condemned. 

" Date obolum Belisaeio. " — The Marquis 
d'Aligre, the richest and most avaricious man in 
France, and supposed to be worth three or four 
millions of money, was once seen entering a church 
during a charity sermon. He was accosted by a 
great lady of the Faubourg St Germain, who, hold- 
ing a bag for charitable contributions, begged him 
to give her something for the poor. The Marquis 
did not appear to understand the request, but the 
lady returned to the charge ; upon which the Mar- 
quis declined giving anything, stating that he had 
no money. The lady then placed the bag full of 
money under the nose of the Marquis, saying, 
" Help yourself, Monsieur d'Aligre, for this bag- 
contains money for the poor ; and as you say you 
are penniless, pray help yourself." Upon which the 
old miser, for once heartily ashamed of himself, 
pulled out of his pocket a purse full of gold, and 
threw it into the bag. 



O" 



" Hats off." — At a party at the Vicomtesse de 
Noailles's soon after the Allied Armies had entered 
Paris, and at which I was present, some of the ladies 
expressed their surprise that Englishmen of high 



"Hats Off." 17 



birth did not take off their hats when bowed to, as 
was the custom in France and other countries. Du- 
puytren, the celebrated surgeon, happened to join 
the party, when some one observed that perhaps the 
Doctor could solve the riddle, and explain the real 
cause of such apparent rudeness on the part of the 
English. Dupuytren, in his coarse and blunt man- 
ner, said, " The teigne, or scald-head, is a very com- 
mon disease in Europe ; it is therefore more than 
probable that those foreigners who keep their hats 
on in the presence of ladies are afflicted with that 
loathsome complaint." Lady Stafford, afterwards 
Duchess of Sutherland, who had been quietly sitting 
on one of the sofas, and whose presence had escaped 
the notice of Dupuytren, rose, and, in a dignified 
manner, said, " Doctor, that horrible disease is un- 
known in my country. My countrymen take off 
their hats to royalty, to ladies, and to none besides." 
Whereupon Dupuytren rejoined, " Surely, my lady, 
there is no law in England which precludes a well- 
bred gentleman from taking off his hat to his equals, 
and more especially to females." Lady Stafford re- 
torted with spirit, " You can ridicule my country- 
men if you think fit, Doctor ; but with all their 
faults and apparent rudeness, they have never been 
guilty of cutting off the heads of beautiful and 
innocent women, as you have done in France." 
This severe retort on the part of her Ladyship was 
considered by all present as quite uncalled for ; but 
the Vicomtesse apologised to her friends by saying 
that Lady Stafford should be pardoned, for she lived 
in Paris during the Eevolution as ambassadress from 
England, and was a great favourite and friend of 
Queen Marie-Antoinette. She conveyed to the poor 

B 



18 Hatred of the Prussians by the French. 



Queen when in prison many little comforts and 
necessaries ; and when the embassy had left Paris, 
and Marie-Antoinette, after unheard-of barbarities, 
was guillotined, Lady Stafford regarded her execu- 
tion as the most atrocious murder, and vowed the 
utmost detestation and abhorrence, not only of the 
ruffians who by their bloody deeds dishonoured 
France, but of the whole French nation. 

Hatred of the Prussians by the French 
Peasantry. — During the memorable retreat of Na- 
poleon from the Ehine to Fontainebleau, the Allies 
amounted to five times the number of the French. 
Though greatly outnumbered, yet there was unity 
of will and of purpose in the councils of Napoleon 
and his generals, which Schwartzenberg and Blucher 
failed to infuse into their troops. Wanting neither 
in alacrity nor in vigour when the glory of his 
country was concerned, Napoleon, with his handful 
of men, made supernatural efforts ; taking advan- 
tage of every good position that presented itself, 
and attacking the enemy upon several points upon 
the same day. 

Upon one occasion he had completely divided the 
Allies by his comprehensive and well-arranged oper- 
ations. Napoleon, to effect this gigantic manoeuvre, 
took the bull by its horns, and accordingly fought 
the battle of Chateau-Thierry. In this sanguinary 
battle the French army succeeded in taking from 
the Prussians all their cannon and ammunition, and 
several thousand prisoners. After the battle, Gen- 
eral Belliard, who commanded the advanced posts 
naturally took possession of the town of Chateau- 
Thierry ; and on entering the principal street with 



Severe Discipline in the Russian Army. 19 

his staff, beheld a most shocking and horrible 
spectacle. The Prussians had committed every 
sort of cruelty during the period they occupied 
Chateau-Thierry prior to the battle, and the in- 
habitants of that place were driven to such a 
pitch of exasperation, that when the battle turned 
in favour of the French, the people acted in a 
most barbarous and cruel manner towards every 
Prussian, whether wounded or not, who fell into 
their hands. 

The first thing which General Belliard saw in 
entering the town was a group of infuriated women, 
their hands bathed in blood, brandishing the 
knives with which they were busily employed in 
killing the wounded soldiers. The General and his 
staff had great difficulty in putting a stop to this 
horrid scene. The women, more like furies than hu- 
man beings, addressed the General, saying they had 
undergone horrible treatment from the Germans, 
who had not only pillaged them of everything they 
possessed, but had violated all the women, both 
young and old, and had killed their husbands in 
cold blood. "Yes, General," cried one of those 
furies, "I have begun this butchery, and I will 
end it !" and in his presence she plunged her knife 
into the heart of a poor prisoner. 

Severe Discipline in the Eussian Aemy. — 
When we were quartered in Paris in 1815, a strange 
circumstance occurred. It became our duty to 
provide the guard for the Emperor of Russia, and 
a dinner was provided for us similar to that which 
is given at St James's. Prior to dinner being 
Served, our Adjutant informed the Colonel that there 



20 The Emperor Alexander in Paris. 



were four Russian general officers in our custody. 
It naturally struck us that something very horrible 
had occurred to have caused the disgrace of men 
of such high rank. It fell to the lot of Captain 
Vernon, son of the late Archbishop of York, to call 
upon those unfortunate officers to invite them to 
dinner — an invitation which they cheerfully _ ac- 
cepted. During the first course, curiosity seized 
the gallant Captain; for, in proposing the health of 
one of our prisoners, he begged the Eussian would 
inform us of the cause of their disgrace. The reply 
was, the Emperor was not satisfied with the manner 
in which their men had marched past at the review; 
whereupon Vernon filled his glass up to the brim, 
and drank, " Confusion to all tyrants, and — Vive 
Napoleon ! " The Eussian generals appeared thun- 
derstruck, and observed, that if they drank the 
toast proposed it would cost them their heads. 

Nothing more was heard of the Eussian generals 
until two days after, when we, (the officers of the 
guard,) were summoned before the Duke of Wel- 
lington, to explain what it all meant. The Duke 
having heard us, said he hoped that for the future 
we would abstain from alluding to Bonaparte, for 
as Louis XVIII. had been proclaimed the King of 
France, any allusion to the fallen hero would be 
both impolitic and mischievous; adding that he 
would make a point of presenting himself at the 
Emperor of Russia's hotel, and explaining the occur- 
rence. 

The Emperor Alexander in Paris. — The Em- 
peror Alexander of Russia was fond of telling an 
anecdote of a circumstance which occurred to him- 



A Fire-Eater Cowed. 21 

self and the King of Prussia whilst in Paris, in 
1815. They had lounged together to the Palais 
Royal, which in those days was surrounded by a 
number of narrow streets and alleys, and in return- 
ing to the Tuileries, they found that they were in a 
labyrinth, from which it was difficult to extricate 
themselves. The Emperor, after a time, accosted a 
well-dressed man who wore the cross of St Louis, 
and asked the nearest route to the Tuileries. The 
answer was, " I am going there myself, and will 
readily accompany you. Will you do me the hon- 
our of informing me whom I am conducting ] " 
The Czar replied, " I am the Emperor of Russia." 
The gentleman received the information with an 
incredulous smile. " And who is your companion % " 
said he. " This is the King of Prussia. But 
whom am I to thank for this politeness % " The 
Parisian, thinking that he would be a match for 
this waggish stranger, replied, " Oh, I am the 
Emperor of China." Little further conversation 
passed between them, the Frenchman apparently 
declining to be further hoaxed. On their arrival 
at the gate of the Tuileries, however, the generate 
was beat, the soldiers saluted, and hats were taken 
off, to the amazement of the soi-disant monarch of 
the Celestial Empire, who was now convinced that 
his companions had higher claims to a throne than 
he possessed. When the two great personages 
turned round to thank their " guide, philosopher, 
and friend," they found that he also had assumed 
an incognito, and had disappeared. 

A Fike-Eater Cowed. — A singular incident oc- 
curred at the Cafe Frangais in 1816, at the corner 



oo 



An Insult Rightly Redressed. 



of the Hue Laffitte. A celebrated duellist entered 
and began insulting all the persons who were seated 
at dinner ; he boasted of his courage, and declared 

his determination to kill a certain M. de F . 

A gentleman present, disgusted at such braggart 
insolence, quietly walked up to this fire-eater, and 
addressed him thus : " As you are such a dangerous 
customer, perhaps you will accommodate me, by 
being punctual at the entrance of the Bois de Bou- 
logne, near the Porte Maillot, at mid-day to-morrow : 
earlier I cannot get there, but depend upon my 
arriving in due time with swords and pistols." The 
duellist began to demur, saying he did not know 
what right a stranger had to take up the cudgels of 

M. de F ; to which the gentleman replied, " I 

have done so because I am anxious to rid society of 
a dangerous fellow like yourself, and would recom- 
mend you before you go to bed to make your will. 
I will undertake to order your coffin and pay your 
funeral expenses." He then gave the waiter a note 
of 1000 francs, with the injunction that his orders 
should be executed before eleven the following day. 
This had the desired effect of intimidating the 
bully, who left Paris the following day, and never 
more was heard of or seen in public. 

An Insult Rightly Redressed.— Soon after the 
restoration of the Bourbons, several duels took place 
for the most frivolous causes. Duels were fought in 
the daytime, and even by night. The officers of the 
Swiss Guards were constantly measuring swords 
with the officers of the old Garde Imperiale. Upon 
one occasion a Frenchman, determined to insult a 
Swiss officer, who, in the uniform of his regiment 



A Duel between Two Officers of the Guards. 23 

was quietly taking his ice at Tortoni's, addressed 
him thus : " I would not serve my country for the 
sake of money, as you do. We Frenchmen think 
only of honour." To which the other promptly 
retorted, " You are right ; for we both of us serve 
for what we do not possess." A duel was the con- 
sequence ; they fought with swords under a lamp 
in the Eue Taitbout, and the Frenchman was run 
through the body ; but luckily the wound, though 
dangerous, did not prove fatal. 

A Duel between Two Old Friends. — General 
A. de Girardin, some forty years back, had a serious 
quarrel with one of his old friends, the Marquis de 
Briancourt, about a lady. A duel was the conse- 
quence. Pistols were chosen ; but, prior to exchang- 
ing shots, De Girardin's second went (as was the 
custom) and felt the right side of his friend's an- 
tagonist, but found nothing there to indicate the 
existence of padding, &c. Accordingly, after mea- 
surement of the ground, pistols were handed to 
the combatants. The Marquis changed his pistol 
from his right into his left hand ; both parties fired, 
and the Marquis fell. The seconds flew to the aid 
of the wounded man, but, to their astonishment, 
on opening his waistcoat several sheets of thick 
paper were found folded over the region of the 
heart. Notwithstanding this device, the blow from 
the bullet created a sore on the left side, which was 
never effectually cured. The Marquis died shortly 
afterwards. 

A Duel between Two Officees in the Life 
Guards about the year 1821. — A lamentable duel 



24 Fayot, the Champion of the Legitimists. 



took place in Paris during the Kestoration between 
two officers of the Life Guards, Captain Walsh 
and Lieutenant Pellew, about a lady. The latter 
gentleman was shot through the head. It is quite 
enough to state that Captain Walsh was justified in 
the steps he had taken, for he had received the 
o-reatest injury that one man could inflict on another. 
Though this unfortunate duel took place above forty 
years back, I well remember it, for I refused to be 
the Lieutenant's second, because he had behaved so 
ill. The impression it made was very great, and 
the general feeling was in favour of the injured 
husband. 

Fayot, the Champion of the Legitimists. — 
Fayot fought more duels than any man in France. 
His aim with a pistol was certain ; but he was not 
cruel, and he usually wounded his adversary either in 
the leg or arm. He was likewise a good swordsman. 
General Fournier was afraid of Fayot, and only 
once measured swords with him; while the latter 
had a horror of Fournier for having killed so many 
young men belonging to good families. In his ren- 
contre with Fayot, the General was severely wounded 
in the hand, and ever after Fayot hunted his anta- 
gonist from one end of France to the other, deter- 
mined to put an end to the "assassin," as he was 
called; but the Eevolution of 1830 came, and all 
was chaos. 

Fayot's father was guillotined in the south of 
France in 1793. His mother, after the severe loss 
she had sustained in the death of her husband, 
whom she adored, brought up her son at Avignon, 
telling him, as he grew up to be a man, to take 



Fayot, the Champion of the Legitimists. 25 

every opportunity of avenging the death of his 
father. Upon the restoration of the Bourbons, 
Fayot came to Paris, where, by his singular man- 
ners and dress, he laid himself open to remark and 
ridicule. In the daytime he was usually dressed 
in a green coat, white waistcoat and neckcloth, 
leather pantaloons, and Hessian boots, with his hat 
on one side. He visited London in 1814, where he 
bought a tilbury and horse, which he brought to 
Paris, and in this gig he paraded every day up and 
down the Boulevards, from the Rue Laffitte to the 
Place de la Madeleine. His evenings were generally 
passed either at Tortoni's or Silve's, the respective 
rendezvous of the Bonapartists and Bourbons. In 
one or other of these cafes Fayot was sure to be 
found. He publicly gave out that he was ready to 
measure swords with any one who dared to insinu- 
ate anything against the royal family, — a threat 
sure to bring upon him serious rencontres ; but 
nothing intimidated him. It was reported at the 
time, and generally believed, that he had, in the 
short period of two years, fought thirty duels with- 
out having been seriously wounded. 

Upon one occasion Fayot repaired to the Theatre 
Francais to see "Germanicus;" party spirit then ran 
high, and any allusion complimentary to the fallen 
Emperor was received by the Bonapartists with ap- 
plause. Fayot loudly hissed, and a great uproar 
arose, when Fayot entered the breach by proclaim- 
ing himself the champion of Legitimacy. The con- 
sequence was that cards flew about the pit ; Fayot 
carefully picked them up, and placed them in his 
hat. After the play had terminated he repaired to 
Tortoni's, where he wrote his address upon several 



26 The Gardes du Corps. 

pieces of paper, which he distributed all over the 
Boulevards, stating that he was to be found every 
morning between the hours of eleven and twelve 
at the well in the Bois de Boulogne, near Auteuil. 
Strange to say, after all this row at the theatre, 
only one antagonist was forthcoming. On the 
second day, at the hour appointed, a gentleman 
arrived with his seconds, who found Fayot in his 
tilbury, ready for the fight. The name of his anta- 
gonist was a Monsieur Harispe, the son of the dis- 
tinguished Basque General. Pistols were chosen, 
and at the first discharge Fayot shot his adversary 
in the knee; then, taking off his hat, he left the 
ground and proceeded to Paris in his tilbury to 
breakfast at Tortoni's, where a great many persons 
had congregated to know the result of this terrible 
duel. 

The Ee volution of 1830 drove Fayot away from 
Paris, and he retired to his native Avignon, where 
he lived much respected by the principal inhabitants 
of that quaint town. In passing through Avignon 
some twelve years back I called upon him, and found 
him much altered, but still dressed in his original 
costume, — the green coat, white neckcloth, &c. 

The Gardes du Corps. — I knew several of those 
gentlemen who had succeeded in getting into the 
companies of the Gardes du Corps — St Arnaud, 
Fouquainville, Odoard, Warrelles, St Roman, Fro- 
masson, and, though last, not least, Warren, an 
Irishman by birth, but whose father had married a 
French lady. Warren stood six feet four inches in 
height, and was an extremely powerful man. He 
was always in hot water with his comrades, and had 



•The Gardes du Corps. 27 

fought duels with several of them, aud his face and 
body shewed marks of sabre cuts ; indeed, fighting 
and drinking were his delights. I never saw a man so 
violent when he had finished his bottle of champagne 
and a few glasses of brandy : he became quite out- 
rageous. He usually breakfasted, when off duty, at 
Tortoni's, upon beefsteaks and broiled kidneys ; and 
any one to whom he bore a grudge who entered 
the room at that moment was sure to be roughly 
handled. 

It happened that Monsieur , a distinguished 

painter, had returned to Paris from England, where 
he had played a shameful and disgusting part. The 
painter had been employed by the celebrated Mr 
Hope of Duchess Street to paint the portrait of his 
wife, Mrs Hope, afterwards Lady Beresford. When 
the painting was finished, Mr Hope objected to pay 
for it, stating that it was a daub. The enraged 
painter, determined to be revenged, took the portrait 
home with him, and in a few days returned it with 
the addition of a beast representing Mr Hope in the 
presence of his beautiful wife. A trial was the con- 
sequence, and the painter was cast in damages. After 
this untoward event, London proved too hot for the 
Frenchman, and he returned to Paris, where his im- 
prudence in speaking in no measured terms of the 
English got him into a scrape which cost him his life. 

The painter (unluckily for him) arrived at Tortoni's 
to breakfast at the moment when Warren was in 
one of his dangerous fits, and attempted to appease 
Warren by going up to him and begging him to be 
more tranquil. This sort of impertinence Warren 
could not brook, and exclaiming, "You are the 
blackguard who laughs at the English," he seized 



28 The late Marshal Castellane. 



hold of the artist, carried him as if he had been a 
bundle of straw, and held him out of the window. 
By the interference of those gentlemen present and 
the crowd below in the street, Warren was persuaded 
to carry back the terrified painter into the room. A 
duel was the consequence, in which the combatants 
were to fight with pistols until one of them was 
killed : Warren won the first toss, he levelled and 
fired, and his adversary fell mortally wounded. This 
duel was much talked of, but no one lamented the 
result of the duel ; for the painter was overbearing, 
and generally disliked by his countrymen as well as 
by foreigners. 

I can scarcely look back to those days of duelling 
without shuddering. If you looked at a man it was 
enough ; for without having given the slightest 
offence, cards were exchanged, and the odds were 
that you stood a good chance of being shot, or run 
through the body, or maimed for life. 

The late Marshal Castellane. — Marshal Cas- 
tellane, a member of a distinguished family, entered 
the army under Napoleon when First Consul, and 
was employed during the Eussiau war. His politi- 
cal feelings were always in favour of legitimacy, and 
therefore, on the return of the Bourbons, he gladly 
retained his rank. The following circumstance, 
which occurred when he was colonel of a crack regi- 
ment of hussars, explains the cause of his so rapidly 
obtaining the rank of general in the royal service — 

A ball was about to be given at the Tuileries, to 
which the Duchesse de Berri graciously invited the 
officers of Colonel Castellane's regiment. He, how- 
ever, resolved that they should not be present, and 



The late Marshal Castellane. 29 

meeting some opposition to his will, he determined 
to carry his point by placing them under arrest. 
The Duchesse de Berri finding that her assembly 
would thus lose some of its most brilliant guests, 
went to the King, and requested the royal interfer- 
ence. His Majesty observed to her Eoyal Highness 
that Castellane was a great martinet, but that it 
would be dangerous to interfere with his command ; 
" however, when he comes to the Tuileries send him to 
me." The Colonel, on making his appearance at the 
palace, was ushered into the royal presence ; and the 
King thus addressed him, " General Castellane, I am 
happy to see you." " I beg your Majesty's pardon/' 
replied the gallant officer, " I have no claim to the 
title by which you have done me the honour to 
notice me : I am Colonel Castellane." " Sir," said 
the Monarch, " it gives me great pleasure to be the 
first to announce your promotion : your commission 
is already made out. I am certain you will serve 
me as faithfully and honourably in a higher grade 
as you have don© when your military rank was not 
so great." 

The General was of course, highly gratified ; so 
also was the Lieutenant-colonel of his regiment, 
upon whom, by this advancement, the command 
necessarily devolved. The first step of the new 
Colonel was of course to remove the officers from 
the disagreeable position in which Colonel Castellane 
had placed them ; and they had the gratification of 
attending the ball at the Tuileries, where, of course, 
the Duchesse de Berri gave them a welcome reception. 

General Castellane shewed himself a gallant soldier, 
and a determined opponent of mob-rule. Although 
he did not abandon the service of his country when 



30 The late Marshal Castellane. 



it was under a republican government, he always 
boldly proclaimed his preference for legitimacy. 
When some tumultuous assemblages took place at 
Eouen, he dispersed them by military force ; and 
upon some of the functionaries of the clay observing 
that he ought to have waited for orders from the 
government, he unhesitatingly replied, " Had any of 
the ministers themselves disturbed the public quiet 
whilst the district is under my command, I should 
shew them that I know my duty better than they 
know theirs." He had afterwards the command at 
Lyons, where he evinced on every occasion firmness 
and decision. A telegraphic despatch from a private 
hand announced the death of the Emperor ; and he 
was advised to proclaim Henri the Fifth. A subse- 
quent telegram summoned him to Paris, where he 
attended the Emperor, who said to him, "Why, Gene- 
ral, I learnt that you were a stanch Bourbouist, 
and that I could place no dependence upon your 
support." The General answered, '' Sire, it is true I 
have always advocated the cause of legitimacy ; but 
I have seen that the country submits to your rule 
and is pleased with it. I have therefore taken the 
oath of allegiance to you as my sovereign ; and I 
can give my assurance that as long as your majesty 
lives you will have no soldier more devoted to your 
service than I am, and shall remain." The General 
Avas shortly after elevated to the rank of Marshal in 
the imperial service, and faithfully and steadily car- 
ried out his principles of adhesion to the imperial 
government. 

He died not long since, greatly esteemed by his 
brethren in arms, and much deplored at Lyons, 
where he had for some time held the command. 



The late General Gabriel. 31 

There he spent a large sum in constructing a mag- 
nificent mausoleum, in which his body now lies. 
His funeral was gorgeous, as is usual with Marshals 
of the Empire. 

The Comte de Castellane, a near relation, was a 
very eccentric character, but a great favourite in 
Paris, where he gave large parties. He fitted up a 
private theatre, where amateur performances by some 
of the most fashionable persons collected together 
the beau monde. His loss was severely felt last 
year by a large number of persons, to whom he was 
in the constant habit of extending a splendid hos- 
pitality. 

The late General Gabriel. — Whatever might 
have been General Gabriel's abilities as a field- 
officer, as a soldier his bravery was unquestionable. 
He was the son of a clergyman, and was so hand- 
some that he received the cognomen of " The Angel 
Gabriel." On entering the army he had to make 
his way in the service by the force of merit and 
good fortune alone. Instances of his dashing and 
headlong courage in the Peninsula caught the eye 
of one of our celebrated general officers, the Hon- 
ourable Sir William Stewart, who commanded the 
division commonly known by the name of " The 
Fighting Division," and he placed Gabriel upon his 
staff. Upon one occasion, in the Pyrenees, Sir 
William was not a little surprised to find that his 
aide-de-camp was non est inventus ; and upon asking 
his nephew, Lord Charles Churchill, what had be- 
come of him, he was answered thus : — " Oh, Gabriel 
having heard the roaring of cannon to our right, has 
galloped off to enjoy the fun." Sir William Stewart, 



32 Admiral la Susse. 



addressing his staff, said, " Well, then, we cannot do 
better than follow him ;" and off they went. On 
reaching the pass of Eoncesvalles, to their aston- 
ishment they saw Gabriel, at the head of a few 
stragglers whom he had picked up on the way, 
charge a bridge which the enemy were crossing, 
and completely rout them. Sir William Stewart 
was so delighted with this act of daring bravery, 
that he recommended his young aide-de-camp for 
promotion, which the Duke of Wellington ratified 
in one of his earliest despatches to the Duke of 
York. 

Admikal la Susse. — Admiral Baron de la Susse, 
well known in the best society of London and Paris, 
was a great favourite of Louis Philippe's. He car- 
ried his Majesty to Portsmouth in a French steam- 
frigate on the occasion of his last visit to our gra- 
cious Queen. During the Admiral's stay at Ports- 
mouth, Lord Adolphus Fitzclarence was instructed 
by the Admiralty to attend upon the French Ad- 
miral, and to shew him the dockyard and forti- 
fications. After visiting everything worth seeing, 
Admiral de la Susse said he was much surprised 
that our principal port was so badly fortified ; add- 
ing that an enemy, with a few ships and ten thou- 
sand infantry, could easily destroy the fortifications 
and burn the arsenal. Soon after, the Duke of 
Wellington happened to meet Lord Adolphus, who 
mentioned the particulars of the conversation he 
had had with the French Admiral , upon which the 
Duke observed, that if a war were to break out 
between us and France, and the French fleet were 
permitted to cross the Channel, Portsmouth would 



A dm iral la Susse. 3 3 

stand but a bad chance. " But the Channel," added 
his Grace, "is a nasty ditch to cross, and to bring 
over ten thousand men at one given point ; and if 
the enemy brought fewer, they would fail, and in 
all probability be taken prisoners." 

Admiral de la Susse, in his younger days, was 
celebrated as a man of fashion. He was rather good- 
looking, with a neat figure, and was very popular 
in society. He was in his youth a very good 
waltzer, and prided himself upon that accomplish- 
ment ; but being unfortunately extremely short- 
sighted, he consequently got himself frequently 
into scrapes. At a ball given by a lady in the 
Faubourg St Honore, La Susse, in a turn of the 
waltz, accidentally, and without the slightest inten- 
tion of insulting any one, came into violent contact 
with a looker-on, who, in a German accent, ex- 
claimed aloud, " Quand on est si maladroit, on ne 
doit pas valzer." Cards were exchanged, and on 
the following morning the parties met in the Bois 
de Boulogne. La Susse's adversary won the toss, 
and took his aim with great coolness, but luckily 
without effect. La Susse then fired, when the Ger- 
man fell. The seconds hastened to render every 
assistance in their power ; but judge of their aston- 
ishment when, instead of finding the German mor- 
tally wounded, as they expected, they only found a 
bullet indented against a well-padded cuirass. La 
Susse, after looking attentively with his glass in his 
eye at what was passing, desired his antagonist to 
rise, as he would have another shot at him ; upon 
which the cuirassed hero rose, and received a well- 
merited and well-applied kick, without making the 
slightest resistance, and then walked off the ground 

P 



34 Marshal Lobau. 



as if he had accomplished some wonderful achieve- 
ment. This extraordinary duel took place in 1816, 
and was the subject of much conversation for a 
leno-th of time in the fashionable circles in Paris. 

At the commencement of the Crimean war, the 
Admiral was named commander-in-chief of the 
French fleet ; and when off the Piraeus, had gone on 
shore to pass a few days up the country with some 
friends, when unexpected orders came for the differ- 
ent vessels under his command to weigh anchor, and 
to proceed to a new destination immediately. The 
Admiral, bent on his amusements, was not to be 
found for three days ; and on this becoming known 
to the Emperor, he was immediately superseded, and 
Admiral Parseval Deschenes named in his place. 
Poor La Susse never recovered from this dreadful 
blow, and considered himself ever after as a dis- 
graced and dishonoured man. He lingered on for 
a few months, and may be said to have died of a 
broken heart. 

Marshal Lobau. — The famous General Mouton, 
the bravest of the brave, was created Count of 
Lobau for his heroic conduct in the desperate 
attack upon the island of that name at the battle 
of Wag-ram. His commanding figure and sten- 
torian voice many persons now living may remem- 
ber when as a marshal of France under Louis 
Philippe, he commanded the National Guard He 
was a most excellent man in all the relations of 
lile, but of very parsimonious habits. One of his 

of him m — deS rekted t0 me the followin S anecdote 
General Mouton, who was a great favourite with 



Montrond. 35 



the Emperor Napoleon, was visiting his illustrious 
chief one morning at the Tuileries, when his Ma- 
jesty, happening to look out of the window* beheld 
in the court-yard a very shabby-looking vehicle. 
" Is that your carriage, Mouton % " asked the Em- 
peror. " Yes, sire." " It is not fitting that one of 
my bravest generals should go about in a hack- 
ney coach." " Sire, I am not a Croesus, and can't 
afford a better." The next day Mouton received 
a cheque on the Bank of France for 300,000 francs, 
(£12,000.) About a fortnight afterwards, General 
Mouton again paid a visit to the Tuileries in the 
same hackney coach. On looking out, the Em- 
peror's countenance clouded over, and he looked 
greatly displeased as he recognised the obnoxious 
vehicle. " Did you not receive an order for 
300,000 francs % " he inquired of the general. 
" Yes, sire," replied Mouton, " and I am truly 
grateful for the gift ; but if your Majesty insists 
upon my spending it, I would rather return the 
money." 

Montrond. — At an evening party at Lady Gran- 
ville's, at the Embassy in Paris, the whist table was 
placed in the throne-room. The card party con- 
sisted of the ambassador, J. Rothschild, Lamarc, 
and Montrond. They were playing high points, or 
stakes, when two ladies approached the table, and 
in a suppliant manner begged the gentlemen would 
aid them by giving a small pittance for some poor 
persons who deserved their charity. Montrond, 
annoyed at this demand, said, " Que voulez-vous, 
mesdames 1 " " Monsieur, nous faisons la quete 
pour les filles repenties." " Tres bien, tres bien, 



36 Chateaubriand — Parson Ambrose. 

madame, si elle sont repenties, je ne donne rien, ab- 
solument rien ; mais pour les femtnes qui ne sont pas 
repenties, j'irai moi-meme leur porter de l'argent." 

Chateaubriand. — This great man passed many 
years of his life in absolute poverty and distress in 
London. He was even obliged to wash his own 
linen. After the restoration of the Bourbons, Louis 
XVIII. named Chateaubriand his ambassador in 
England, and during this period his great delight 
was to enumerate the many shifts he had employed 
to keep body and soul together ; but what delighted 
him more than all was to revisit the banks of the 
Thames, near Chelsea, where he formerly washed his 
shirts and stockings. 

Parson Ambrose. — During the winter of 1816, 
I had the honour to receive a general invitation to 
the Sunday Soirees of the Duchess of Orleans, the 
mother of Louis Philippe. Upon one occasion I re- 
member seeing two celebrated ladies there, Madame 
de Stael and Madame Eecamier. There were many 
English present also. Among the most remarkable 
was a gentleman known by the appellation of " Par- 
son Ambrose," a natural son of Lord de Blaquiere's. 
He was good-looking, and dressed like a gentleman 
of the old regime. He wore black silk breeches, with 
buckles both to his knees and shoes, and the frills 
to his shirt were of the finest Malines lace. Sir 
Charles Stewart, upon entering the saloon, beckoned 
to the parson, who said, " Well, Sir Charles, I am in 
a bad state." "What is the matter with you?" 
" I have a complaint in the chest, your Excellency." 
"What Doctor have you consulted'?" "Lafitte," 



Captain Wilding. 37 

replied the parson. " I never heard of him except 
as a banker. Well, what has he done for you % " 
" Nothing." Sir Charles, now discovering the 
meaning of the " chest complaint," said, in his good- 
natured way, "Come to the Embassy to-morrow 
morning, and I will see what can be done to cure 
your complaint." The parson accordingly went, 
and found the ambassador at breakfast with the 
Duke of Wellington. After talking over olden 
times, when the Duke was merely Captain Welles- 
ley, and lived on intimate terms with the parson 
in Dublin, his Grace kindly presented Ambrose with 
a hundred guineas, to take him back to England for 
change of air ; which, he trusted, would contribute 
to the restoration of his health. 

Captain Wilding. — After our corps d'armee, 
under the command of Sir John Hope, had crossed 
the Adour, we were ordered to advance as close as 
possible under the walls of the town. Accordingly, 
after suffering considerable loss, we succeeded in 
investing the town and fortress. The enemy, not 
contented with firing from the batteries, actually 
brought a nine-pounder on to the high-road, half- 
way from their stronghold. This gun did us great 
injury, and I was witness to a very gallant act of 
some of the infantry of the German Legion, which 
effectually stopped any further loss. Captain Wild- 
ing, who commanded a company of Hanoverians, 
suddenly dashed out of a burial-ground to the left 
of the road, rushed upon the gunners, bayoneted 
them, and brought the gun in triumph into our 
lines, amidst the loud cheers of our soldiers. In 
this gallant exploit Captain Wilding was badly 



38 The Church Militant— Louis XVIII. 

wounded in the leg, and. was obliged to return to 
England for his recovery ; but prior to his removal 
he had. the satisfaction to see, in general orders, the 
approval, by the Commander-in-chief, of his gallant 
bearing in the capture of the gun. Captain Wilding 
was a Hanoverian, and brother of Prince Butera, to 
part of whose vast estates in Sicily he succeeded, and 
is now known by the title of Prince Eadali, which 
was bestowed upon him by the old King of Naples. 

The Church Militant. — I was acquainted, 
during the Peninsular war, with one of the army 
chaplains, the Rev. Mr Frith, who was attached to 
the Fifth Division. He considered it part of his duty 
to attend the troops into action, and would fre- 
quently expose himself, with them, to the hottest 
fire. He shewed the greatest courage and devotion, 
and rescued many wounded soldiers on several 
occasions, performing these, and many other gallant 
actions, as a matter of course and without any idea 
of display ; for although a man of such remarkable 
bravery, he was of a quiet and gentle demeanour. 

I remember on one occasion being present when 
a party of staff officers were trying to find a ford 
for the passage of a deep and rapid stream by a 
part of the army ; most of the horses refused the 
water, when the reverend gentleman pushed forward, 
saying, " I daresay my nag will take it," and he was 
in a few minutes over on the other side and back 
again. Mr Frith went by the name of " the fight- 
ing parson " in his division, and was an admirable 
and excellent specimen of the Church militant. 

Louis XVIII. — Louis XVIII. was famous for his 



The Bridge of Jena Saved. 3D 

repartees. His Majesty being very infirm, could only 
shew himself to his people in a carriage ; he could 
not mount a horse, and had great difficulty in walk- 
ing a few steps. He was very fond of having all the 
news of Paris, and had numerous visitors during 
the day, who related to him everything that hap- 
pened. An ambassador of long-standing, the 
Bailli de Ferrette, used to be a frequent attendant 
at the Tuileries, and upon one occasion the King 
said to the Bailli, " What news have you for me 
to-day 1" "None worth communicating to your 
Majesty/' said M. de Ferrette, "unless it is that the 
people in Paris are beginning to. murmur because 
their King is not able to ride and review his soldiers 
as other sovereigns have done from time imme- 
morial." His Majesty replied, "Oh, I suppose they 
want a monarch who can ride well. Perhaps I had 
better abdicate in favour of Franconi." 

The Bridge of Jena Saved.— When Blucher 
was meditating the destruction of the bridge of 
Jena by blowing it up with powder, one of the old 
generals of the Empire proceeded to the Tuileries, 
saw the King, and mentioned what the Prussians 
intended doing. Louis, enraged, cried out, " What 
Vandalism ! 1 will place myself on the bridge and 
be blown up with it, rather than so fine a monu- 
ment should be destroyed." The King then sent 
the Due de Guiche to mention to the Duke of 
Wellington what had been communicated to him, 
upon which our illustrious chief ordered his horse 
and galloping off to the Guards' bivouacs in the 
Bois de Boulogne, gave directions to Sir P Mait- 
land to drive the Prussians off the bridge at 



40 The Due de Grammont, 

the point of the bayonet, coute que coute. The 
Guards, on approaching the bridge, found the Prus- 
sian engineers hard at work undermining ; but on 
discovering we were bent on mischief, and that our 
firelocks were loaded with ball cartridge, — only five 
minutes being given them to remove all their pick- 
axes and other implements, — they quietly marched 
off, to the great mortification of the officer in com- 
mand, and to the disgust of Marshal Blucher, who 
never forgave Wellington for thwarting his purpose. 

Louis XVIII. and Sosthenes de la Rochefou- 
cauld. — A few days after the King's arrival in 
Paris in 1814, Sosthenes de la Rochefoucauld col- 
lected together a mob in the Place Vend6me, with 
the intention of hurling from its pedestal the statue 
of the Emperor, endeavouring at the same time to 
pull down the pillar, which all the world has seen 
and admired. Hundreds of ropes were held by the 
mob, who pulled away with all their might for 
several hours ; but, night coming on, they were 
obliged to desist from their fruitless attempts. The 
King, having been told of this outrageous conduct, 
sent for Rochefoucauld and asked him whether he 
had acted in the manner reported of him. The 
Duke pleaded guilty, upon which the King said, 
" You are playing the enemy's game ; it is by such 
means I shall be made unpopular. For the future, 
bear in mind that Louis XVIII. is King of France, 
and not King of the Vandals." 

The Due de Grammont. — The Due de Gram- 
mont, better known as the Due de Guiche, was 
the type and model of the real French gentleman 



The Due de Gramrtiont. 41 

and grand seigneur of the olden time. He was 
the handsomest man at the court of the elder 
branch of the Bourbons ; and during the Empire, 
when in exile, had served in the English army 
I knew him well in Spain, in 1813, when a Captain 
in the 10th Hussars, and subsequently at Bordeaux, 
in 1814, when he accompanied the Due d'Angou- 
leme, and having then left our service, was arrayed 
in a French uniform as aide-de-camp to the Dau- 
phin. He spoke English perfectly, was quiet in 
manner, and a most chivalrous, high-minded, and 
honourable man. His complexion was very dark, 
with crisp black hair curling close to his small, 
well-shaped head. His features were regular and 
somewhat aquiline, his eyes large, dark, and beau- 
tiful ; and his manner, voice, and smile were con- 
sidered by the fair sex to be perfectly irresistible. 

He served with distinction as a general officer in 
the Spanish campaign of 1823, and was specially 
attached to the person of the Dauphin, whom he 
was obliged to keep in great order. As is often the 
case with princes, the Dauphin, or Due dAngou- 
leme, as he was sometimes called, would frequently 
emancipate himself, and take liberties with those 
around him, if permitted to do so. Once, when 
driving with the Due de G-uiche, the Prince, in his 
somewhat ape-like manner, pinched his companion. 
A few moments afterwards, the Duke returned the 
caress with interest, to the great surprise of the 
Dauphin, who started and turned angrily round, to 
meet the winning, placid smile of his friend and 
mentor. 

The Duke was universally beloved and regretted; 
and I should instance him as being, perhaps, the 



42 The Montmorencies. 



most perfect gentleman I ever met with in any 
country. 

The Montmorencies. — At this time, when a law- 
suit is about to take place in France respecting the 
rio-ht of a grandson, in the female line, of the late 
Duke to assume the title of Duke of Montmorency, 
it may not be uninteresting to call to mind how 
illustrious a family is about to become extinct in 
the male line. 

The Montmorencies bore the title of first Chris- 
tian Barons and Premier Barons of France, and have 
been rendered illustrious by no less than ten con- 
stables, and innumerable marshals, generals, car- 
dinals, archbishops, and governors of princes. Their 
alliances by marriage with the royal family have been 
frequent ; and for ten consecutive centuries, the heads 
of this great house have shone forth as the most 
eminent personages in French history, and have held 
the highest and most important offices in the state. 

I remember the late Gaston de Montmorency, 
Prince de Robecq, a most gallant, amiable, and 
accomplished man, in whom all the hopes of the 
family were centred, but who died in the prime of 
life, a few years after the Revolution of 1830. He 
used to say that he would never marry, for that tho 
present age was not worthy to possess Mont- 
morencies, now that the age of chivalry was gone, 
and his country had fallen into the hands of Louis 
Philippe and the Spiders of the Rue St Denis. 
He kept his promise ; and at the present moment, 
the only male representatives of this illustrious race 
are the two Princes of Montmorency Luxembourg, 
both aged men, who have no male descendants. 



The Montmorencies. 43 



The name was always a popular one with the 
French people. The Montmorencies, though proud 
and haughty to their equals, were kind, generous, 
and charitable to their inferiors, arid were cele- 
brated for the magnificence of their establishments. 
Even in the days of "liberty, equality, and fra- 
ternity," and at periods of revolutionary excesses, 
the name of Montmorency has always inspired a 
certain respect ; even the fiercest Bepublicans have 
felt a sort of pride when the name of this ancient 
and illustrious race has been pronounced before 
them. 

In England and, strange to say, in Africa there 
are still supposed to be iiving descendants of the 
earlier chiefs of this family. The ancient Irish 
sept of Macmorris, or Morris, who have taken the 
name of Montmorency within the last fifty years, 
and possess the Irish titles of Mountm orris and 
Frankfort, claim descent— and, I believe, on Well- 
grounded evidence — from Herve de Montmorency, 
in the eleventh century. They have, however, in 
taking the name, committed a great error in assum- 
ing the motto of Dieu ayde, which was not the 
devise of their supposed ancestor, but adopted for 
the first time by one of the Constables of France, 
a Montmorency who lived several hundred years 
afterwards. 

With regard to Africa, it is well known to all 
French officers who have been quartered at Oran, 
that there is in the neighbourhood of that town an 
Arab tribe which bears the name of " Momoransi," 
and which is very proud of the family ; and the 
tradition is, that they are the descendants of an 
illustrious French leader in the First Crusade. 



The Montmorencies. 



Curiously enough, the Irish and Arab offshoots 
of the family must have separated from the parent 
stem at about the same time, and have been fourth 
or fifth in descent from " Bouchard ; " for by that 
not very harmonious name the patriarch of the 
Montmorencies was first known. But I much fear 
that the female ancestress of these Arab chiefs 
must have gone astray with the pious crusader, and 
that they are only illegitimate descendants of the 
Montmorencies ; for in all the old chronicles of the 
time there is not a single instance of a Christian 
knight havino- intermarried with an infidel. 

This calls to my recollection a story I have 
heard of a Duke of Montmorency in the reign of 
Louis XV., who was married to a lady of ancient 
family and great beauty ; but, like many nobles of 
that time, he was not quite a model of what 
husbands ought to be, and lived a very riotous and 
improper life. He even went so far as to appear 
in public with the celebrated dancer, Mademoiselle 
Guimard, about whom all the young men of the 
day were raving. One night, on the Duchess enter- 
ing her box at the opera with several friends, she 
beheld, to her horror and amazement, the Duke, her 
husband, seated at the back of the pit box in which 
the charming dancer displayed her charms. What- 
ever might be done in private, in those days a 
certain decorum was preserved in public, and the 
appearance of the Duke in Guimard's box was 
an outrage which the Duchess could not endure. 
She sent one of the gentlemen who were with her 
to request her husband's immediate presence, and 
thus addressed the astonished culprit : '• I have 
always been a devoted and faithful wife ; but let 



Ouvrard, the Financier. 45 

roe warn you in time. If you ever again commit 
such an outrage, remember this, that you cannot 
make Montmorencies without me, and I can make 
them without your assistance." The Duke's pride 
and fear were roused by this very broad hint , 
and it is said that he, from that time, reformed, 
and became ever after le modele des peres et des 
epoux. 

Ouveard, the Financier. — Before the French 
Eevolution, the largest fortunes in France were pos- 
sessed by the farmers of the revenue, or fermiers- 
generaux. Their profits were enormous, and their 
probity was very doubtful. It is related that one 
evening at Ferney, when the company were telling 
stories of robbers, they asked their host, Voltaire, 
for one on the same subject. The great man, tak- 
ing up his flat candlestick, when about to retire, 
began, " There was once upon a time a fermier- 
general — I have forgotten the rest." 

The prodigality, magnificence, and ostentation of 
these Croesuses were the subject of every play and 
every satire ; and when the bloody tribunals of 
1793 ruled over France, their fortunes were confis- 
cated, and very few of the fermiers - generaux 
escaped the fate which many of them had well 
deserved. 

At that unhappy period, just before the fall of 
Eobespierre, the funds fell to 7, and shortly after 
his execution and the establishment of the Directory, 
they rose to 40. By such fluctuations many large 
fortunes were made by speculators and army con- 
tractors ; they were protected by the very corrupt 
chief of the Directory, Barras, and realised enormous 



46 Ouvrard, the Financier. 

sums. The most prominent among the latter was 
Ouvrard, a man sprung from a very humble origin, 
but of very great financial capacity. During his 
long career of success, which lasted from the latter 
part of the last century till 1830, he made and 
spent millions of money He was ruined by 
making lame sales on the funds, under the ex- 
pectation that the government of Louis Philippe 
could not stand. He was born in 1770, and his 
first operation, which consisted in buying up all the 
paper made in Poitou and Angoumois and retailing 
it at immense profit to the Paris booksellers, laid 
the foundation of his fortune. He soon afterwards 
made a contract for provisioning the Spanish fleet, 
which had joined the French squadron in 1797, and 
made a net profit of £600,000. In 1800, he was 
supposed to possess a fortune of a million and a half 
of English money. Soon after, he had the contract 
for supplying the French army in the campaign 
which closed with the battle of Marengo. His 
prosperity continued for many years; and, in 1812, 
the Government owed him, for enormous advances 
made by him, nearly three millions of English 
money. He was munitionnaire-gSneral for the 
AVaterloo campaign; and, in 1823, contracted to 
supply the Due d'Angouleme with everything neces- 
sary for the entry of the French army into Spain 
in IS 23, but the non-fulfilment of his contract en- 
tailed heavy losses upon him, and in 1830 he was 
completely ruined. 

No man was more reckless in his expenditure, or 
more magnificent in his manner of living, than 
Ouvrard. At the time of the Directory, theses 
given by him at Le Eaincy were the theme of the 



Ouvrard, the Financier. 47 

whole of Parisian society of that time. At his 
splendid villa near Eueil, during the Empire, he 
was in the habit of giving suppers to all the corps 
de ballet of the opera twice a week ; and he used to 
send several carriages, splendidly equipped, to bear 
away the principal female performers when the per- 
formance was over. There an enormous white 
marble bath, as large as an ordinary-sized saloon, 
was prepared for such of the ladies as, in the sum- 
mer, chose to bathe on their arrival. Then a splen- 
did supper was laid out, of which the fair bathers, 
and many of the pleasure-seekers of the day, par- 
took ; and, besides every luxury of the culinary art, 
prepared by the best cooks in Paris, each lady 
received a donation of fifty louis, and the one fortu- 
nate enough to attract the especial notice of the 
wealthy host, a large sum of money. 

Mademoiselle Georges, the celebrated tragedian 
of that day, cost him (as he was fond of relating) 
two millions one hundred thousand francs for a 
single visit. He had invited her to sup with him 
at his villa, but the very day she was to come, a 
note informed him that she was compelled to give 
up the pleasure of supping with him, as the Emperor 
Napoleon had given her a rendezvous for the same 
hour, which she dared not refuse. Ouvrard was 
furious at this contretemps, and (as he said when I 
heard him tell the story) he could not bear to yield 
the pas to "le petit Bonaparte,'' whom he had 
known as a young Captain of artiller}^, too happy to 
be invited to his house in the days of the Directory. 
This feeling, and his pride of wealth, got the better 
of his prudence, and he sent to Mademoiselle Georges 
to insist upon her coming to Eueil, adding, as a 



4S Madame de Stael. 



postscript, that she would find a hundred thousand 
francs sous le plis de sa serviette at supper. This 
last argument was irresistible, the lady sent an 
excuse to the Emperor, pleading a sudden indispo- 
sition, and was borne rapidly in one of Ouvrard's 
carriages to his country residence. 

The following day the great financier received a 
summons forthwith to appear at the Tuileries, and 
was ushered into the Emperor's presence. After 
walking once or twice up and down the room, the 
great man turned sharply round on his unwilling 
guest, and, with his eagle glance riveted on Ouv- 
rard's face, sternly demanded, " Monsieur, how much 
did you make by your contract for the army at the 
beginning of the year?" The capitalist knew it 
was in vain to equivocate, and replied, " Four mil- 
lions of francs, sire." " Then, sir, you made too 
much ; so pay immediately two millions into the 
Ireasurv 

a/ 

Ouvrard passed several years in prison for a con- 
siderable debt owed by him to Seguin, another army 
contractor; but lie lived magnificently even when 
in prison, and his creditor, strange to say, used 
frequently to go and dine with him there. I saw 
Ouvrard shortly before his death, which took place 
in 1846. 

Madame de Stael. — I frequently met the famous 
Madame de Stael in Paris during the years 1815 
and 1816. She was constantly at Madame Crau- 
ford's, in the Eue d'Anjou St Honored and at Lady 
Oxford's, in the Rue de Clichy. She was very kind 
and affable to all the English, and delighted to find 
herself once more in sight and smell of the ruisseau 



Madame de Stael. 49 



de la Rue du Bal, which she once said she preferred 
to all the romantic scenery of Switzerland and Italy 
She was a large, masculine-looking woman, rather 
coarse, and with a thoracic development worthy of 
a wet nurse. She had very fine arms, which she 
took every opportunity of displaying, and dark, 
Hashing eyes, beaming with wit and genius. 

Her career was a chequered one, and her history 
is a romance. The only child of the Minister 
Necker, in troublous times she married the Swedish 
ambassador at Paris, the Baron de Stael, in 1786. 
Full of great and noble sentiments, she took up 
the cause of the unfortunate Louis XVI. and his 
Queen with generous ardour. She arranged a plan 
of escape for the King in 1792, and did not fear to 
present to the revolutionary tribunal, in 1793, a 
petition in favour of Marie-Antoinette. She re- 
mained in Paris during the Directory ; and it was 
under her influence and protection that Talleyrand 
obtained office in 1796. She was always opposed 
to Napoleon, and was exiled by him from Paris in 
1802. She returned, however, and her presence was 
tolerated till the appearance of her book " De l'Alle- 
magne," the sentiments and allusions of which were 
decidedly hostile to the imperial despotism which 
then oppressed nearly the whole of Europe. The 
book was seized by the Emperor's police, and Madame 
de Stael was again exiled, and did not return till 
1815 to Paris, where she died in 1817, aged fifty-one. 

Admirable as her writings were, her conversation 
surpassed them. She was " well up " on every sub- 
ject — "nihil quod tetigit non omavit." Her salons 
were filled with all the most celebrated persons of 
her time. The statesmen, men of science, poets, 

D 



50 Madame de Stael 



lawyers, soldiers, and divines, who crowded to hear 
her, were astounded at her eloquence and erudition. 
Disdain and contempt for her personal charms or 
mental -powers -was one of the causes of the hatred 
she had vowed to the first Napoleon ; and, unequal 
as a contest between the greatest sovereign of the 
age and a woman would at first sight appear, there 
is no doubt that, by her writings and her sarcastic 
sayings, which were echoed from one end of Europe 
to the other, she did him much injury. 

Talleyrand, when he married Madame Grand, a 
beautiful but illiterate idiot, said he did so to repose 
himself after the eternally learned and eloquent dis- 
courses of Madame de Stael, with whom he had been 
very intimate. On one occasion, alluding to her 
masculine intellect and appearance, while she was 
holding forth at great length, he said, "Elle est 
homme a parler jusqu'a. demain matin." At an- 
other time, when he was with her in a boat, and 
she was talking of courage and devotion, qualities 
in which the ci-devant bishop was notoriously defi- 
cient, she put the question, " What would you do if 
I were to fall into the water 1 " Looking at her 
from head to foot, he answered, " Ab, madam, you 
must be such a good swimmer," ("voits savez si 
bien nager") 

A pretty saying of Madame de Stael's is cited, 
which shewed her good taste and good feeling. A 
person in a large company, in beholding her and 
Madame Recamier, — the most beautiful woman in 
France, and who prided herself not so much on her 
personal appearance as on her intellectual gifts, — 
said, " Here is wit " (pointing to Madame de Stael) 
"and' beauty," (pointing to Madame Eecamier.) 



Madame de Steel 51 

Madame de Stael answered, " This is the first time 
I was ever praised for my beauty " 

The person in England who was the great object 
of Madame de StaeTs admiration, and in the praise 
of whom she was never wearr, was Sir James 
Mackintosh, one of the greatest men of the age, and 
certainly the best read man of the day She also 
lived on most intimate terms with the celebrated 
orator and publicist, Benjamin Constant : but her 
liaison was supposed to be a Platonic one : indeed, 
she was secretly married, in IS 10, to M. de Eocca, a 
young officer of hussars, who was wounded in Spain, 
and who wrote a very interesting account of the 
Peninsular war. 

Madame de Stael was perhaps at times a little 
overpowering, and totally deficient in those "bril- 
liant flashes of silence " which Sydney Smith once 
jokingly recommended to Macaulay In fact, as a 
Scotchman once said of Johnson, she was " a robust 
genius, born to grapple with whole libraries, and a 
tremendous conversationist.' - ' 

A story is told of the Duke of Marlborough, 
great-grandfather of the present Duke, which always 
amused me. The Duke had been for some time a 
confirmed hypochondriac, and dreaded anything 
that could in any way ruffle the tranquil monotony 
of his existence. It is said that he remained for 
three years without pronouncing a single word, and 
was enterino; the fourth vear of his silence, when he 
was told one morning that Madame la Baronne de 
Stael, the authoress of "Corinne," was on the point of 
arriving to pay him a visit. The Duke immediately 
recovered his speech, and roared out, " Take me away 
— take me away !" to the utter astonishment of the 



t) -J 



Mademoiselle le Normand. 



circle around him, who all declared that nothing 
but the terror of this literary visitation could have 
put an end to this long and obstinate monomania. 

A Feminine Foible. — During the first Empire, 
the great ladies of the Faubourg St Germain (like 
ladies of all times) were very shy of divulging their 

ao-es. The Duchess of S , once beautiful and 

replete with wit, was congratulating herself on her 
youthful looks, and pretending that she was born at 
least twenty years later than she really was, when her 
daughter, more beautiful than her mother, endeav- 
oured to put a stop to her exaggerations by crying 
aloud, " mamma, do leave at least nine months 
between our ages ! " 



o 



Mademoiselle le Normand. — One of the most 
extraordinary persons of my younger days was the 
celebrated fortune-teller, Mademoiselle le Normand. 
Her original residence was in the Eue de Tournon, 
but at the time of which I write she lived in the 
Eue des St Peres. During the Kestoration, the 
practice of the " black art " was strictly forbidden 
by the police, and it was almost like entering a 
besieged citadel to make one's way into her sanctum 
sanctorum. 

I was first admitted into a good-sized drawing- 
room, plainly but comfortably furnished, with books 
and newspapers lying about, as one sees them at a 
dentist's. Two or three ladies were already there, 
who, from their quiet dress and the haste with 
which they drew down their veils, or got up and 
looked out of the window, evidently belonged to 
the upper ten thousand. Each person was sum- 



Mademoiselle le Normand. 53 

moned by an attendant to the sibyl's boudoir, and 
remained a considerable time, disappearing by some 
other exit without returning to the waiting-room. 
At last I was summoned by the elderly servant to 
the mysterious chamber, which opened by secret 
panels in the walls, to prevent any unpleasant 
surprises by the police. I confess that it was 
not without a slight feeling of trepidation that 
I entered the small square room, lighted from 
above, where sat Mademoiselle le Normand in all 
her glory. 

It was impossible for imagination to conceive a 
more hideous being. She looked like a monstrous 
toad, bloated and venomous. She had one wall- 
eye, but the other was a piercer. She wore a fur 
cap upon her head, from beneath which she glared 
out upon her horrified visitors. The walls of the 
room were covered with huge bats, nailed by their 
wings to the ceiling, stuffed owls, cabalistic signs, 
skeletons — in short, everything that was likely to 
impress a weak or superstitious mind. This malig- 
nant-looking Hecate had spread out before her 
several packs of cards, with all kinds of strange 
figures and ciphers depicted on them. Her first 
question, uttered in a deep voice, was whether you 
would have the grand or 'petit jeu, which was 
merely a matter of form. She then inquired your 
age, and what was the colour and the animal you 
preferred. Then came, in an authoritative voice, 
the word "Coupez," repeated at intervals, till the 
requisite number of cards from the various packs 
were selected and placed in rows side by side. No 
further questions were asked, and no attempt was 
made to discover who or what you were, or to watch 



54 Mademoiselle le Normand. 



upon your countenance the effect of the revelations. 
She neither prophesied smooth things to you nor 
tried to excite your fears, but seemed really to be- 
lieve in her own power. She informed me that I 
was un militaire, that I should be twice married 
and have several children, and foretold many other 
events which have also come to pass, though I did not 
at the time believe one word of the sibyl's prediction. 

Mademoiselle le Normand was born in 1768, and 
was already celebrated as a fortune-teller so early 
as 1790. She is said to have predicted to the un- 
fortunate Princesse de Lamballe her miserable death 
at the hands of the infuriated populace. She is also 
reported to have been frequently visited and con- 
sulted by Eobespierre aud St Just ; to have reported 
his downfall to Danton, at that time the idol of the 
people ; to have warned the famous General Hoche 
of his approaching death by poison ; to have foretold 
to Bernadotte a northern throne, and to Moreau 
exile and an untimely grave. 

The Empress Josephine, who, like most Creoles, 
was very superstitious, used frequently to send for 
Mademoiselle le Normand to the Tuileries, and put 
great faith in her predictions; which she always 
asserted in after years had constantly been verified. 
But, unfortunately for the sibyl, she did not content 
herself with telling Josephine's fortune, but actually 
ventured to predict a future replete with malignant 
influences to the Emperor himself. This rash con- 
duct entailed upon her great misfortunes and a lono- 
imprisonment ; but she survived all her troubles, 
and died as late as 1S43, having long before given 
up fortune-telling, by which she had amassed a 
large sum of money. 



Louis Philippe and Marshal Soult. 55 

An Ominous Fall. — I remember Count d'Orsay 
telling me that on the day previous to the appear- 
ance of the celebrated ordonnances, or decrees of 
July 27, 1830, which caused the Ee volution 
and drove Charles X. from the throne, his sister, 

the Duchesse de G , niece by marriage tG 

Prince- Polignac, and a violent Eoyalist, was seated 
at the piano, playing and singing with triumphant 
vigour, " La victoire est a nous," when suddenly the 
music-stool gave way, and the beautiful Duchess 
lay sprawling on the floor. D'Orsay, who was a 
Liberal, assured her, laughingly, that this fall in the 
midst of her Legitimist song was de tres mauvais 
augur e, and a bad prognostic for the success of the 
party to which she belonged. He did not at the 
time believe his own prophecy, so firmly did the 
Bourbons appear to be established ; but before the 
end of the month Charles X. had left France, and 
was followed by the fair Duchess and her husband, 
the most faithful friends and adherents of the fallen 
monarch, and as true to him in adversity as when 
he shone forth as one of the most powerful sove- 
reigns of Europe. 

Louis Philippe and Marshal Soult. — Louis 
Philippe's cunning was proverbial, and he shewed 
great talent and ingenuity in managing his minis- 
ters ; but he had great difficulties to encounter. The 
most exigeant of all his officials was the celebrated 
Marshal Soult, who was perpetually asking the 
King for some place or appointment for one or 
other of his friends or relations, to the disgust of 
Louis Philippe. Upon one occasion, when all the 
ministers had assembled in the royal closet, the 



56 Decamps and the Duke of Orleans. 



King, observing that the Marshal appeared dis- 
pleased, inquired, "What is the matter, Marshal?" 
"Oh, nothing, sire; except that I intend ^ giving 
into your Majesty's hands my resignation." This 
untoward and unexpected announcement alarmed 
the rest of the ministers, who, one and all, inti- 
mated that in such case they also must tender their 
resignations. The King, not alarmed in the slightest 
decree, requested the Marshal would follow him 
into his private room, and begged the rest of the 
ministers to remain until his return. The inter- 
view lasted a considerable time, and the King, fear- 
ing that he had kept the ministers too long waiting, 
and that their patience was exhausted, popped his 
head into the council-room, crying out, " A little 
more patience, gentlemen. All will be well ; for 
the Marshal and myself have already shed tears." 
The truth became known the following day ; at all 
events it was generally whispered that Soult bad 
frightened the King out of a promise that all places 
of emolument and advancement in the army should 
centre in him, which promise was religiously ad- 
hered to until Soult left the ministry of war. 

Decamps and the Duke of Orleans. — Some 
twenty years back, or thereabout, I was break- 
fasting with my late lamented friend, Lord H. 
Seymour, when Decamps, the celebrated painter, 
was announced. During breakfast Decamps told 
us the following anecdote, which, he said, had oc- 
curred the day before : — A gentleman called at his 
lodging, on the third story, and asked the porter 
if M. Decamps was at home, and being answered in 
the affirmative, the visitor was about to ascend the 



Fashion in Paris. 57 

staircase wnen the porter called after him, and said, 
" As you are about to visit the artist, perhaps you 
will have no objection to carry with you his trousers, 
which I have just mended." " By all means," re- 
plied the stranger ; " I shall be happy to render you 
this little service." Arriving at the door, the visitor 
rang the bell, and Decamps, on opening the door, to 
his utter amazement, recognised the Duke of Orleans, 
who laughingly presented to him the trousers he had 
received from the porter. This little anecdote is one 
dut of many I could relate to illustrate the truly 
amiable character and unaffected simplicity of the 
lamented heir of Louis Philippe's throne. 

Fashion in Paris. — It has been said of the 
French that they are constant only in their fickle- 
ness, worshipping one day what they execrate the 
next, and throwing down with their own hands from 
its pedestal the idol they themselves had set up a 
few weeks before. But there is one deitv to whom 
they have never proved faithless ; at whose shrine 
they bow with the same devotion to-day as they did 
centuries ago, whose fiat is law, and whose dictates 
none dare resist. This capricious, exacting, ever- 
changing goddess is Fashion. 

I remember once expressing my admiration for a 
very handsome, charming lady, in the presence of a 
Parisian "man-milliner of modern days." During 
all my encomiums the Gaul preserved a stern silence. 

" Do you not admire Lady X V I asked, rather 

provoked by his disdainful looks. " She has purple 
gloves — c'est une femme jugee," he replied, with a 
look of supreme contempt, which was truly amus- 
ing to behold. Though it is now the fashion in 



58 Fashion in Paris. 



Paris to imitate the fast generation of perfidious 
Albion in many articles of dress, such as looped-up 
petticoats, wideawake hats, nets for the hair, and 
Balmoral boots, in former days no English lady 
who had not been brought up at the feet of some 
female Parisian Gamaliel, could be supposed by any 
possibility to know anything about la toilette. 

Many years ago I was asked one day to dine 

with the late Lord Pembroke, to meet Lord C , 

and a goodly array of French Elegants. Eveu 
after this lapse of years I can still smile at the re- 
collection of the anxiety with which these gentlemen 
— among whom, by the by, was the handsome Henri 
de Noailles, afterwards Due de Mouchy — awaited 
the arrival of the celebrated London dandy. At 
length the great man was announced ; for, true to 
London rule, he came last, and long after the hour 
fixed for dinner. There was no one more agreeable 

or cleverer than Lord C , and no one, at the 

time of which I write, was more the fashion in 
London ; but to appreciate him one required to be 
accustomed to his peculiar appearance and rather 
eccentric manner. Short of stature, and rather in- 
clined to be obese, even at five-and-twentv, he wore 
a coat very much thrown open, a variety of splendid 
jewels adorning a transparent cambric shirt elabo- 
rately embroidered, and (oh, tell it not in Gath !) 
an exceedingly short, rose-coloured waistcoat, just 
covering his ample chest, and cutting his somewhat 
square-built torso exactly in two. Add to this, 
very long, straight, straw-coloured hair, which he 
had the habit of throwing continually back, or, by a 
rapid gesture, bringing forward to fall over his wild 
but very expressive eyes, and his tout ensemble ap- 



Fashion in Paris. 59 



peared, to French notions, very strange indeed : 
the Parisian exquisites could hardly believe that 
they saw before them the Lovelace, the Jieur des 
pois of English society, of whom they had heard 
so much. 

Those who, like myself, are old enough to recol- 
lect the beautiful Lady Blessington in her brightest 
days, can remember that she always wore a peculiar 
costume, chosen with artistic taste to suit exactly 
her style of beauty. The cap she was in the habit 
of wearing has been drawn in Chalon's portrait of 
her, well known from the print in the " Keepsake," 
and in all the shop windows of the day. It was 
" a mob-cap " behind, drawn in a straight line over 
the forehead, where, after a slight fulness on each 
temple, giving it a little the appearance of wings, it 
was drawn down close over the cheeks, and fastened 
under the chin. Nothing could have been more cun- 
ningly devised to shew off the fine brow and beauti- 
fully-shaped oval face of the deviser, or to conceal 
the too great width of the cheeks, and a premature 
development of double chin. Lady Blessington had 
also a style of dress suitable to her figure, which 
was full, but then not " of o'er-grown bulk." She 
always wore white in the morning, a thick muslin 
dress, embroidered in front and lined with some 
bright colour, and a large silk bonnet and cloak 
to match. This was her costume in London, but, 
on her arrival in Paris, two or three French ladies 
got hold of her, declared she was horriblement 
fagotee, aud insisted on having her dressed in 
quite a different style by a fashionable modiste; 
they managed so completely to transform her that 
in the opinion of myself and all who had seen her in 



GO Fashion in Paris. 



England, her defects were brought out, and all her 
beauty disappeared. But, nevertheless, in her new 
and unbecoming attire, she was pronounced char- 
mante by a jury of fashionable dames, and forced, 
nolens volens, to take an eternal farewell to the 
lovely and becoming costumes of her youth. 

Fashion has such a wonderful power over the 
French mind, that it can actually transform the 
body so as to suit the exigency of the moment. 
In former days, we old fellows may remember that 
the French type of womankind was une petite 
femme mignonne et brune. In the whole of society, 
thirty or forty years ago, one could scarcely have 
numbered more than half-a-dozen tall women. 
They were looked upon as anomalies, and saluted 
not unfrequently with such very uncomplimentary 
appellations as " chameaux gensdarmes," " asperges," 
&c, &c. Now that it is the fashion to be tall and 
commanding, one sees dozens of gigantic women 
every day that one goes out, with heels inside as 
well as outside their boots ; perhaps even stilts 
under those long sweeping petticoats. I know 
not how the change has been effected, but there 
it is. 

Frenchwomen used to have dark hair ; blondes 
were not generally admired, and tried by every 
possible means to darken their hair ; but now, since 
the Empress has made fair hair d la mode, all 
the women must be blondes, and what with gold 
powder and light wigs they do succeed. As to 
complexions, a dark one is now unknown ; roses 
and lilies abound on every cheek : even some 
young men of fashion have not disdained the use 
of cosmetics, but have come out from the hands 



Fashion in Paris. 6 1 

of the coiffeur romantically pale or delicately 
tinted. 

Fashion is very capricious, and it does not suf- 
fice to sit in high places in order to govern la 
mode. With the exception of the Duke of Orleans, 
so prematurely cut off in the flower of his youth, 
not one of Louis Philippe's family, male or female, 
ever exercised the smallest influence over this capri- 
cious goddess. There were young and handsome 
princesses, always well and tastefully dressed, but 
they were pronounced rococo; and no one ever 
dreamt of wearing any particular bonnet or cloak, 
because the beautiful Duchesse de Nemours, or the 
graceful Princesse de Joinville had appeared in a 
similar one. 

It is not because the Empress Eugenie is the 
wife of Napoleon III. that she sets the fashion, even 
to those who don't go to court, and who turn up 
their noses at her entourage. She is consider- 
ably older and certainly not handsomer than was 
the Duchesse de Nemours, when she left France to 
die in exile ; but she has the chic, if I may use 
such a word, that the Orleans princesses did not 
possess ; and the quietest dowager, before she ven- 
tures to adopt a coiffure, as well as the gayest 
lady of the demi-monde, will cast a look to see 
what the Empress wears. Strange to say, the 
supreme good taste and elegance which reign in 
her Majesty's toilettes were by no means con- 
spicuous in her younger days ; for, as Mademoiselle 
Montijo, she was voted beautiful and charming, but 
very ill-dressed. 

The style of French cookery has also changed as 
completely as the style of dress, at the dictates of 



62 Fashion in Paris. 

Fashion. Modern attire and modern cookery are alike 
over ornamented. Thirty years ago, simplicity in 
dress, especially in the morning, was the right thing : 
if by any extraordinary chance a Parisian lady of 
rank condescended to take a walk, (a rare occur- 
rence,) she could only be remarked by the extreme 
plainness and neatness of her attire ; and any article 
of dress that could in anywise resemble what might 
be worn by the lorette of that day was studiously 
shunned. To be taken for anything of a lower 
grade than what she was, and spoken to by an un- 
known person, would have been looked on as an 
insult so great that the humiliating incident would 
never have been breathed to mortal ear ; but now-a- 
days it is considered only a good joke. How 
astonished and horror-struck would be the great 
ladies of the Eestoration, if they could rise from their 
graves and behold their granddaughters emulating 
the demi-monde in their dress, language, and man- 
ners ; qffichant their liaisons in the sight of the sun ; 
walking into their lovers' houses unveiled, undis- 
guised, or riding with them publicly, and having 
their carriages called under their own names at the 
restaurants, or small theatres, where they have been 
tete-d-tcte ! 

The dignified, artful, proud, but perhaps not more 
virtuous, grandmother would have been unutter- 
ably disgusted, not so much at the immorality as 
at the bad taste displayed in such arrangements ; 
which then existed just as much as now, but were 
supposed to be unknown. Great was the amuse- 
ment of the clever and charming Lady G , at 

one of her small receptions thirty years ago, at see- 
ing the celebrated statesman, Comte M , salut- 



Fashion in Paris. 63 

ing in the most respectful and distant manner, and 
with, all the formal politeness of la vieille cour, 

the Comtesse de C , with whom it was supposed 

that he had long been on terms of more than 
friendly intimacy, and whom he had probably left 
but a few hours before. The lady, without even 
extending the "shake hands" now so much in 
vogue, returned the salutation by an equally re- 
served and dignified courtesy ; and a minute after 

this formal greeting, Lady G overheard the 

elderly minister, in a voice full of enthusiastic 
admiration, address the middle-aged lady thus, 
"Pauline, tu as 15 ans !" 

I am sorry to say that esclandres, or scandals 
which made a noise in the world, were supposed to 
be perpetrated by my countrywomen alone. Comte 
Alfred de Maussion, a very dark, handsome man, 
who was a great Lovelace, especially amongst the 
English ladies some forty years ago, used to say, 
" Those charming Englishwomen are really tres corn- 
promettantes. They are not happy if they do not 
run away from their stupid, good-natured husbands, 
who only ask to be permitted to shut their eyes and 
see nothing." 

Certainly in these modern times the order of things 
is reversed. Frenchmen need not take the trouble 
of publishing their successes with their own country- 
women ; their victims are only too happy to relate 
them : indeed, modern French husbands would con- 
sider their wives very rococo and provinciales, 
if they had not at least one cicisbeo to follow in 
their train. Le mari trompe exists now only in the 
drama or novel. His eyes are wide open ; no one 
tries to deceive him ; and he is perfectly satisfied. 



Gi Literary Salons in France. 

Literary Salons in France. — One of the most 
agreeable salons in Paris was held by the late Madame 
Emile de Girardin, the Mrs Norton of France. Like 
our own gifted countrywoman, she was endowed not 
only with poetic genius, but likewise with great con- 
versational wit and much personal beauty. 

She was a tall, good-looking woman, with the as- 
pect of a Muse, or rather of what one fancies a Muse 
ought to be. She had an abundance of beautiful 
fair hair, large blue eyes, an aquiline nose, and very 
fine teeth, and bore a striking resemblance to the 
pictures of Marie-Antoinette. She was also some- 
what like the beautiful Duchesse de Guiche, (mother 
of the French ambassador at Vienna ;) but it was 
remarked that she looked like the case in which 
Madame de Guiche had been laid, being of coarser 
build, and with larger features ; though in in- 
tellectual gifts Madame de Girardin was consider- 
ably the other lady's superior. 

She had many great and estimable qualities. Her 
mind and heart, like her outward frame, were on a 
large and grand scale. She was above all the little- 
nesses that too often disfigure women's characters. 
She was (a rare thing in a woman) an enthusiastic 
admirer of beauty even in her own sex, and took 
pleasure in drawing round her the women most dis- 
tinguished for their personal or mental qualities. 
She possessed a peculiar knack of making her guests 
appear to the best advantage, drawing them out, 
and placing them in the little circle where they 
would be sure to shine and be appreciated ; for she 
felt that she could afford to subdue the lio-ht of her 
brilliant wit, and allow the little glowworms around 
her to twinkle to their own satisfaction. 



Literary Salons in France. 65 

You were sure to meet in the salon of Madame 
E. de Girardin all the celebrities of the day, whether 
fashionable, literary, or political — Lamartine, Balzac, 
Dumas, Frederic Soulie, Emile Souvestre, Theophile 
Gautier, with the Dukes and Counts of the Faubourg 
St Germain, Orleanist deputies, and the handsome 
Englishwomen who nsed to gladden Parisian eyes 
and win Parisian hearts. 

Every one felt at ease, — the women looked their 
best, the men made themselves agreeable, and the 
charming hostess seemed happy in the enjoyment of 
those around her. 

Any one who wishes in some degree to appre- 
ciate the brilliant and vivacious wit of Madame 
E. de Girardin may obtain some idea of it by read- 
ing the charming " Lettres Parisiennes," published 
under the pseudonyme of Vicomtesse de Launay ; 
though (admirable as they are) they give only a 
dim reflection of that true esprit Franpais, which 
Madame de Girardin possessed in its highest per- 
fection, and the great charm of which lies in quick 
repartees and the d propos of the moment. 

In addition to her great gifts as a prose writer, 
she was also a poetess of the highest order ; and her 
pieces de theatre enjoyed the greatest popularity, and 
met with well-deserved success. 

Though in reality far superior to her husband, 
both in cleverness and judgment, she had a high 
and even exaggerated opinion of his merits as a poli- 
tician. In the darkest days of that melancholy ex- 
periment yclept the Republique Franpaise of 1848, 
an intimate friend was sitting one morning in Madame 
de Girardin's boudoir. They were lamenting over 
the miserable state of things which had succeeded 

E 



66 Literary Salons in France. 

the era of constitutional liberty. After discussing 
the dangers and difficulties of the moment, Madame 
de Girardin added, with a grave expression of coun- 
tenance, and a deeper intonation of voice, " Happily, 
there is one above who can restore order and tran- 
quillity to the country ; and he alone can save us." 
The visitor, somewhat astonished at what he 
thought a pious observation coming from a lady of 
rather Voltairian principles, muttered out some- 
thing about Providence, and good coming out of 
evil. " That 's not the question," said Madame de 
Girardin ; <: I am not talking about Providence, 
but of my husband, who is at this moment over- 
head, and engaged in writing an article for the 
Presse, which will appear to-morrow, and set every- 
thing to rights/' 

Madame de Girardin and her sister, Madame 
O'Donnell, a very clever and agreeable, but less 
good-natured woman, both inherited their great 
gifts from their mother, Madame Sophie Gay, the 
celebrated authoress of " Les Malheurs d'un Amant 
Heureux," and other novels, much appreciated some 
thirty or forty years ago. 

Salons like that of the gifted Madame Emile de 
Girardin are extremely rare now-a-days, owing 
greatly to the unlimited extension of what is called 
society ; and also, perhaps, in some measure, to the 
strong line of demarcation drawn by political 
animosity. The thirst for noisy active pleasure has 
well-nigh destroyed the charming little coteries of 
the olden time, where men did not think it be- 
neath them to be well-bred and amiable, where they 
consented to speak of other things besides their 
horses and mistresses, and where women were not 



Literary Salons in France. 67 

satisfied with being pretty and well-dressed, but 
aimed also at being thought clever and agreeable. 

One of the pleasantest of these salons was that 
of the Comtesse Merlin. In a different way, that 
lady was almost as remarkable a person as Madame 
Emile de Girardin. She was a Spanish Creole by 
birth ; and though even when I made her acquaint- 
ance, some thirty years ago, she was what our 
English novelists call " somewhat embonpoint" her 
beauty was still of the very highest order. Her face 
was one which, once beheld, could never be forgotten ; 
the perfect oval of the contour, the small regular 
features, fine brow, and dark flashing eyes were in 
perfect harmony. Though she had the Spanish 
defect of a too long corsage, and a somewhat 
thick waist, yet her bust and arms were faultless. 

And she was not only surpassingly beautiful, but 
possessed a voice equal to those of any of the first- 
rate singers who have appeared upon the stage. 
She could sing with Malibran, Grisi, Rubini, and 
Tamburini, without appearing out of place. In her 
latter years what once had been so great a charm 
became the terror of her friends ; for she did not 
feel her declining powers, and her voice, which had 
become uncertain, and even hoarse, sounded in her 
own ears as mellow and enchanting; as ever. She 
was one of those who will not grow old. As she 
approached sixty, her gowns became more decolletees- 
and her bravuras more frequent. She used to have 
all her gray hairs plucked out ; so that at last, as was 
wittily observed, instead of being coiffee en cheveux, 
she was coiffee en tete. 

But perhaps these illusions as to her appearance 
and perpetual youth enabled Madame Merlin up to 



68 Literary Salons in France. 

the end of her life to remain the same kind, 
generous-hearted, agreeable woman she had been in 
her young days, when all the world was at her feet. 
She still thought herself far superior to the young 
beauties who had succeeded her ; and no doubt even 
the sear and yellow leaf of her autumnal time was 
more attractive than the spring of many younger 
ones around her. 

She had less wit and more genuine good-nature 
than Madame de Girardin. She might have a mo- 
ment of violent anger, but bore no malice ; and she 
had too much reliance on the variety of her attrac- 
tions to fear any rivalry As the etudiant says in 
the well-known print of Gavarri, " C'etait la une 
ricJie nature defemme, et si bon enfant." 

Madame Merlin gave charming concerts, followed 
by very agreeable suppers. Her house was a sort of 
neutral ground, where the ministers of the Orleans 
dynasty met the leaders of the Legitimist party, and 
the most celebrated writers of the day ; where 
Duchesses sat down with singers, and all aristocratic 
pretensions were laid asdie. Madame Merlin, 
among her many good qualities, had one which is 
rare and admirable, and is the stamp of a truly 
noble nature. She was thoroughly independent. 
The poor way-worn musician who formed one of a 
chorus met with as civil and kind a reception as the 
Duke or Count just arrived from the Faubourg St 
Germain. There was the kind, beaming, southern 
smile of recognition for the second-rate artiste, when 
met in some great house where he or she was kept 
at arm's length. There was in her no respect of 
persons for their rank or position, no cringing to 
the debasing laws of socail etiquette. She pos- 



Sir John Elley. 69 



sessed what is much rarer than we all imagine, — a 
truly kind heart; and she reaped her reward, for 
though Madame Merlin had not always a great 
regard for appearances, no one had the courage to 
fling a stone at the generous-minded, warm-hearted 
woman. 

Sib, John Elley. — I have alluded in my former 
volume to the extraordinary personal bravery of 
General Sir John Elley on the field of Waterloo, 
and his series of hand-to-hand encounters with the 
French cavalry on that great day. It is perhaps 
not generally known that this most distinguished 
officer commenced his career as a private in the 
Blues. He afterwards commanded that celebrated 
regiment, for which he always had a great liking ; 
and on a lengthened tour he once made through 
Europe, after the war, although a Major-general, 
he always wore the uniform of the Koyal Horse 
Guards. 

When he arrived at Vienna, he was invited to 
dine at a full-dress dinner at the British Ambassa-. 
dor's, on the occasion of King George IV 's birth- 
day. He was covered with orders, bestowed by the 
different sovereigns of Europe in 1815 ; and amongst 
these gorgeous ribands and crosses the modest 
Waterloo medal appeared. Sir John happened to 
sit next to a French Secretary of Embassy, who 
criticised the English decoration, and said, " Surely, 
General, that is a very poor sort of order the 
Government have given you and the other brave 
officers of the English army. It cannot have cost 
them five francs." " True," replied Sir John, 
making a low bow, "it has not cost our country 



70 An English Dandy in Paris. 



more than five francs ; but it cost yours a Napo- 
leon." 

An English Dandy in Pakis. — During the days 
of Georges III. and IV., a number of gentlemen, re- 
markable for their eccentricities of dress and man- 
ners, were the lions of the clay both in London and 
Paris. For example, we had. such men as Brum- 
mel, Pierpoint, John Mills, Meyler, Bradshaw, and 
others, who seemed to think that the principal ob- 
ject of their existence ought to be that of obtaining 
notoriety by their dress. In addition to this class, 
we had a series of fops about town, who were yet 
more extravagant in their dress and manners. 

I well remember Captain T , in Paris, imme- 
diately after the war. He lived in a magnificent 
style, having taken no less than two different hotels, 
which naturally created a good deal of gossip in the 
fashionable world. His carriages and horses were 
English, and considered the most perfect things of 
the day But the most remarkable feature of his 
eccentricities was the captain's dress he wore 
trousers capacious enough for a Turk; his coat, 
which he always designed himself, was remarkable 
for its wide, bagged sleeves, and an ingenious mode 
of making the collar a sort of receptacle for a 
voluminous quantity of shirt frill ; indeed, the 
shirt collar appeared to descend from his ears all 
the way down his back, so that you might suppose 
he was looking out of a black chimney-pot. 

Nature had bestowed upon him handsome fea- 
tures, and a profusion of hair, which he had curled 
and arranged in such an eccentric style that the 
snaky locks appeared to be always desirino- £ 



Sheridan and the Electors of Stafford. 71 

escape from his head, and were only detained on 
his cranium by a tight-fitting little hat, suitable for 
a boy about fourteen. He wore a pair of golden 
spurs, with rowels of the circumference of a small 
dessert-plate. Thus he strutted about the streets of 
Paris, inviting the smiles of those who knew him, 
and the positive laughter of strangers to whom he 
was unknown. When Mike Fitzgerald met him for 
the first time, after the end of the war, he said, 

" Well, T , I am happy to find you have won 

your spurs : made of doubloons, I suppose." 

Peace to his ashes ! He died in the flower of his 
age, much regretted by a large circle of friends ; and 
his death was mourned by nearly all the best 
families of the Faubourg St Germain, with whom he 
had lived on the most intimate and friendly terms 
for a quarter of a century 

Sheridan and the Electoes of Stafford. — 
In my last volume I have spoken of my return as 
member of Parliament for Stafford. Many circum- 
stances have been brought to my mind lately with 
regard to Sheridan, who had been one of my pre- 
decessors, by my witnessing a wild drama that has 
been brought on the French stage, under the title 
of " L'Homme de Eien/' which purports to be a bio- 
graphy of that distinguished man. Those who have 
seen how Mrs Siddons, Edmund Kean, and Dean 
Swift have been rendered ridiculous by the incredi- 
ble ignorance of dramatic authors in France about 
everything English, and of every circumstance of 
the lives of those they purport to represent, would 
not be surprised at the liberties they have taken 
with the great orator, wit, and dramatist. 



VIS 



2 Sheridan and the Electors of Stafford. 



I heard from some very old men amongst my 
constituents the singular history of the canvass of 
Sheridan for this immaculate borough. His repu- 
tation had already reached the town, but the defects 
which unfortunately also rendered him conspicuous 
were then unknown. He was reported to possess, 
besides, unbounded influence with the Government, 
and to have the entire management of Drury Lane 
Theatre. His voters, being fully convinced that 
they ought to receive a quid pro quo for their 
" most sweet voices," every one had a favour to ask. 
One had a son who had great dramatic talent, 
another was an admirable scene-painter, others had 
cousins and nephews who w T ould make excellent 
door-keepers, lamp-lighters, check-takers, or box- 
openers ; there were tailors, coiffeurs, and decora- 
tors, who could dress with inimitable effect the 
dramatis personce. Sheridan listened with his 
usual bland smile to every request, and complied 
with them all ; each individual being furnished 
with a letter to the stage-manager of Drury Lane, 
they all started off for the metropolis, full of eager 
expectation. On their arrival they were favourably 
received, and each person obtained the situation 
that he had desired. When letters from London 
announcing the fulfilment of Sheridan's promises 
reached the hungry constituents of Stafford, a fresh 
batch of aspirants for office posted off, and all were 
equally successful ; the consequence was that, on 
the day of election, the favourite was returned with 
every demonstration of admiration and confidence. 

Scarcely, however, had the member of Parliament 
left the town than innumerable reproaches were 
heaped upon his head ; it was found that upon 



Sheridan and the Electors of Stafford. 73 

application for the payment of the salaries clue to 
the different persons employed there was no money 
in the treasury. On Saturday night the receipts 
were carefully handed over to Sheridan, .who care- 
lessly spent the money ; so that the whole of the 
humbler employes received nothing, whilst the 
higher order of actors contrived to dun and worry 
the thoughtless and extravagant entrepreneur out 
of a portion of their salaries. 

Great was the indignation excited amongst Sheri- 
dan's constituents on finding that they had placed 
their political interests in the hands of such a man, 
and a deputation of three persons was despatched 
to London to remonstrate with him. They went at 
a fixed hour to the residence of the great man, 
where they found a large crowd of his creditors 
assembled, many of them apparently bent on saying 
some very disagreeable truths. After waiting for 
some time, the folding-doors were thrown open, and 
out stepped the delinquent, in the first style of 
fashion. Looking around him with a fascinating 
smile, he addressed a few words to each of his 
would-be tormentors in succession ; each one in his 
turn was delighted, and quite incapable of making 
unpleasant observations. They saw before them 
the man whose speech they had just read in the 
Times and Courier, which had proclaimed him in 
their leading articles the first orator of the age ; 
and they had seen in the Morning Post a paragraph 
describing the irresistible wit which had convulsed 
Brookes's with laughter, and which concluded by 
pronouncing the honourable member an ornament 
to British society. 

On this occasion, Sheridan soon observed that 



74 Sheridan and the Electors of Stafford. 

the deputation from Stafford was an angry one ; so 
lie walked quietly up to each individual, and put 
some questions to him relating to his domestic con- 
cerns. He had not forgotten anybody or any cir- 
cumstance. He asked one of his constituents if Mrs 
Grundy's preserves and jams, which she was making 
when last he saw her, had proved of first-rate quality ; 
whether Miss Grundy the elder continued to charm 
the world with playing Stiebett's " Storm " on the 
piano; if Miss Grundy the younger still took lessons 
from Mr Town in velvet-painting ; and whether Dr 
Squill had successfully vaccinated Master Tommy. 
To each the great man had something to say which 
seemed calculated to soothe the irritation of the 
hearer, and to prevent him from uttering a word of 
blame. Each man saw before him the most fasci- 
nating individual in the kingdom fixing upon him 
his dark flashing eye, and addressing him in per- 
suasive accents, with the blandest smile. Sheridan 
moved through the admiring circle with graceful 
step, no one venturing to stop him ; and as he 
reached the door he turned round, made an enchant- 
ing bow, and having entered his carriage, kissed 
his hand gracefully to his surrounding friends, and 
loudly told the coachman to drive to Carlton House. 
Away he went in a carriage for which the coach- 
maker had received no money, driven by a coach- 
man and footman whose wages had not been paid 
for months, but who were still so pleased with their 
master that they were willing to wait, and in fact 
rather starve in his service, than live in the family 
of the richest nobleman upon the fat of the land. 

Upon the dissolution of Parliament, Sheridan 
went down to Stafford ; but he found circumstances 



Sheridan and the Electors of Stafford. 75 



completely changed ; he could not obtain the pro- 
mise of a single vote from his old friends. In con- 
sequence of his continued excesses, he had lost much 
of the charm of outward appearance that had won 
him friends at an earlier period, and nothing re- 
mained of his once expressive face but the remark- 
able brilliancy of his eyes ; his cheeks were bloated, 
his nose was of a fiery red, and his general aspect 
bespoke the self-indulgence of the reckless man. 
His appearance on the hustings was the signal for a 
volley of opprobrious terms. One man in the crowd 
bawled out, " We won't send you to Parliament, for 
your nose will set the House of Commons on fire ;" 
another had some doggerel rhymes to recite about 

" The Whigs' banners are blue ; 
Your nose and your cheeks are red, 
From port-wine and brandy too, 
And there's sherry in your head." 

In vain did the once-admired orator attempt to 
gain a hearing ; he was driven away amid the deri- 
sion of the crowd, and never again was enabled to 
shew his face in Stafford. 

It has been said that his first election cost him 
£2500 ; but this has been strenuously denied. An 
anecdote, however, was in circulation, and had 
reached his biographer, Thomas Moore, to the effect 
that a deputation from Stafford had waited upon 
Sheridan, requiring that he should give a vote con- 
trary to his own views, and that his answer was a 
decided negative, expressed in these words, " Gentle- 
men, I bought you, and I assure you that I shall sell 
you whenever it suits my convenience." 

Many of the follies and extravagances that 
marked the life of this gifted but reckless person- 



76 Sheridan at Drury-Lane Theatre. 



age must be attributed to the times in which he 
existed. Drinking was the fashion of the day. 
The Prince, Mr Pitt, Dundas, the Lord Chancellor 
Eldon, and many others, who gave the tone to 
society, would, if they now appeared at an evening- 
party, "as was their custom of an afternoon," be 
pronounced fit for nothing but bed. A three-bottle 
man was not an unusual guest at a fashionable 
table ; and the night was invariably spent in drink- 
ing bad port-wine to an enormous extent. 

Sheridan at Drury-Lane Theatre. — However, 
many of the tricks played by Sheridan were quite 
unjustifiable. A very old man, and who had 
suffered severely by his confidence in the great 
orator, was pointed out to me. On a Friday even- 
ing, after the second price had been received, the 
treasurer of Drury-Lane Theatre came to Sheridan 
with a wofully long face, and told him that there 
was not money enough to pay even the subordinates 
on the following day ; and that unless a certain sum 
could be found he was persuaded that the house could 
not open on Monday. Sheridan suggested several 
plans for raising the wind, but all were declared by 
Mr Dunn to be useless. Sheridan gazed round at the 
thinly-peopled boxes, and at length called to one of 
the porters in waiting, " Do you see that stout, good- 
tempered-looking man seated next a comely lady 
in the third box from the stage, in a front row 1 
Immediately the play is over, go to him ; have a 
couple of wax candles carried by a boy who can 
make graceful bows ; open the box door, and in a 
voice loud enough to be heard by every one, say, 
( Sir, Mr Sheridan requests the honour of a 'private 



Sheridan at Drury-Lane Theatre. 77 

interview with you in his own room.' Let every one 
on the way treat him with the greatest civility ; 
and, Mr Dunn, will you have the kindness to see 
that a bottle of the best port and a couple of wine 
glasses are placed on the table in my study." 

The orders were duly obeyed. The gentleman was 
ushered into the presence of Sheridan with honours 
almost approaching those shewn to royalty, and was 
received by him with the most cordial marks of 
friendship and regard. " I am always so happy to 
see any one from Stafford. I was glad you called 
at my house for an order to this theatre, where I 
hope you will come when you please , you will find, 
your name on the free list. I think I remember 
you told me you always came twice a year to 
London." "Yes," was the reply; "January and 
July, to receive my dividends." " You have come 
for that purpose now," continued Sheridan. " Oh, 
yes ; and I went to the Bank of England and got 
my six hundred pounds." " Ah," said the manager, 
" you are in Consols, whilst I, alas, am Reduced, and. 
can get nothing till April, when, you know, the 
interest is paid; and till then I shall be in great 
distress." " Oh," said his constituent, " let that not 
make you uneasy ; if you give me the power of 
attorney to receive the money for you when it is 
due, I can let you have three hundred pounds, 
which I shall not want till then." "Only a real 
friend," said Sheridan, shaking his dupe by the 
hand with warmth, " could have made such a pro- 
position. I accept it thankfully." And the three 
hundred pounds were immediately transferred from 
the pocket-book of the unwary man of Stafford into 
that of the penniless manager of the theatre. 



78 Sheridan at Drury-Lane Theatre. 

April arrived, a power of attorney was one 
morning handed over for signature to Sheridan, 
whose only reply was, " I never spoke of Consols in 
Seduced, I only spoke of my consols being reduced ; 
unhappy is the man avIio does not comprehend the 
weight of prepositions." The Stafford man, burning 
with indignation, rushed up to London, and found 
his cajoler calmly seated in his room at Drury 
Lane. Sheridan, apparently not at all disconcerted, 
with outstretched hand and benignant smile wel- 
corned his victim, whose rage was at first uncon- 
trollable ; but his attack was met by the manager 
with an acknowledgment that, in a moment of 
urgent necessity he had been compelled to throw him- 
self on the generosity of a man whom he had heard 
from every one was a model of worth, and whose 
acquaintance would be acceptable in the highest 
quarters. " But excuse me, my dear sir," he added ; 
" I am now commanded to go to the Prince of 
Wales, to whom I shall narrate your noble conduct. 
My carriage is waiting, and I can take you to 
Carlton House." The eye of the provincial sparkled 
with delight. Was it possible that he meant to 
take him to the Prince of AVales \ It sounded 
something like it. He shook Sheridan by the hand, 
saying, " I forgive you, my dear friend ; never men- 
tion the debt again." "I will take care never to do 
so," said the manager. The carriage came round to 
the door, the two friends entered it, and when they 
arrived at Carlton House, Sheridan got out, and 
closing the door, told the coachman to drive the 
gentleman to his hotel. The Stafford man, with a 
last hope, naively said, " I thought I also was goino- 
into Carlton House." " Another mistake of yours," 



Shelley's Fight at Eton. 79 

replied Sheridan. The worthy constituent returned 
that nio;ht to Stafford : and in future his vote was 
given against Sheridan. 

Shelley's Fight at Eton". — In the year 1809 an 
incident occurred at Eton which caused no small 
sensation and merriment throughout the school. It 
was announced one morning that Shelley, the future 
poet, had actually accepted wager of battle from Sir 
Thomas Styles. Whether he had received an insult, 
and that vast disparity in size gave him confidence, 
or that, over-full of the warlike descriptions of 
Homer's heroes, he was fired to imitate their exploits 
against some one or other, remains a secret. Meet, 
however, they did, after twelve, in the playing-fields. 
The usual preliminaries were arranged — a ring was 
formed, seconds and bottle-holders were all in readi- 
ness, and the combatants stood face to face. The 
tall, lank figure of the poet towered above the 
diminutive, thick-set little Baronet, by nearly a head 
and shoulders. In the first round no mischief was 
done ; Sir Thomas seemed to be feeling his way, 
being naturally desirous of ascertaining what his 
gigantic adversary was made of; and Shelley, 
though brandishing his long arms, had evidently no 
idea of their use in a pugilistic point of view. After 
a certain amount of sparring without effect, the 
combatants were invited by their seconds to take 
breath. The Baronet did not hesitate to accept the 
offer to sit upon the knee of his second ; but Shelley 
disdainfully declined to rest, and, calculating upon 
finishing the fight by a single blow, stalked round 
the ring, looking defiance at his little adversary- 
Time was called, and the battle was renewed in 



80 Epigram by Canning* 

earnest. The Baronet, somewhat cautious, planted 
his first blow upon the chest of Shelley, who did not 
appear to relish it. However, though not a pro- 
ficient in the art of self-defence, he nevertheless 
went in, and knocked the little Baronet off his legs, 
who lay sprawling upon the grass more dead than 
alive. Shelley's confidence increased ; he stalked 
round the ring as before, and spouted one of the 
defiant addresses usual with Homer's heroes when 
about to commence a single combat : the young 
poet, being a first-rate classical scholar, actually de- 
livered the speech in the original Greek, to the no 
small amusement of the boys. In the second and 
last round, Styles went to work like a first-rate 
artist, and, after several slighter blows, delivered 
what is called in the prize-ring " a heavy slogger " 
on Shelley's bread-basket ; this seemed positively 
to electrify the bard, for, I blush to say, he broke 
through the ring, and took to his heels with a spe°d 
that defied pursuit. His seconds, backers, and all 
who had witnessed the fight, joined in full cry after 
him, but he outran them all, and got safe to the 
house of his tutor, Mr Bethel. 

This incident naturally excited much merriment 
at Eton at the time, and Shelley never more, during 
his stay at college, ventured to enter the pugilistic 
arena, but passed his leisure hours in making vari- 
ous experiments in chemistry and natural science. 
He even went so far as to employ a travelling tinker 
to assist him in making a miniature steam-en cine, 
which burst, and very nearly blew the bard and the 
Bethel family into the air. 

Epigeam by Canning. — When Tumlyn, the 



Crockford's Club. 81 

Bishop of Winchester, died, every effort was made 
by Pelham to succeed to the bishopric. The follow- 
ing epigram was written by Canning : — 

" Says priggish Pelham, ' May I beg a hint on 
The shortest road from Exeter to Winton 1 ' * 
Says Bloomfield,t ' Sure you cannot fail to light on 
The shortest road through Hertford X and through Brighton.' " 

Mr Canning- and Lord Lyndhurst. — When 
George Canning succeeded Lord Liverpool as Pre- 
mier, he was at a loss to find a Chancellor. He had 
quarrelled with Copley (Lord Lyndhurst) a few 
nights before, for having, in a violent speech, in- 
veighed against the Catholics in no measured terms : 
Canning had even accused him of having learnt 
by heart a pamphlet, published the day before, by 
the Bishop of Exeter against the Catholics. Never- 
theless, Canning, when forming his ministry, wrote 
the following laconic note to Copley : — " Non 
obstante Phtipotto, will you be my Chancellor'?" 
The bait took, and Copley the same day became 
Chancellor, and forty-eight hours after was gazetted 
Lord Lyndhurst. 

Crockford's Club. — I have alluded, in my first 
volume, to the high play which took plac3 at White's 
and Brookes's in the olden time, and at Wattier's 
in the days of Brummel and the dandies. Charles 
Fox, George Selwyn, Lord Carlisle, Fitzpatrick, 
Horace Walpole, the Duke of Queensberry, and 
others, lost whole fortunes at faro, macao, and 

* Winton, the old name of Winchester. 

+ Sir B. Bloomfield, afterwards Lord Bloomfield, a great favourite 
of the Prince Begent's. 
X The Marchioness. 

F 



S2 Croclcford's Club. 

hazard ; almost the only winners, indeed, of that 
generation were General Scott, father-in-law of 
Canning, the Duke of Portland, and Lord Eobert 
Spencer Lord Eobert, indeed, bought the beautiful 
estate of AYoolbiclding, in Sussex, with the proceeds 
of his gains by keeping the bank at Brookes's. 

But, in the reign of George IV., a neAv star rose 
upon the horizon in the person of Mr "William 
Crockford ; arid the old-fashioned games of faro, 
macao, and lansquenet gave place to the all-devour- 
ing thirst for the game of hazard. Crockey, when 
still a young man, had relinquished the peaceful 
trade of a fishmonger for a share in a " hell," where, 
with his partner Gye, he managed to win, after a 
sitting of twenty-four hours, the enormous sum of 
one hundred thousand pounds from Lords Thanet 
and Granville, Mr Ball Hughes, and two other 
gentlemen whose names I do not now remember. 
With this capital added to his former gains, he 
built the well-known palace in St James's Street, 
where a club was established and play organised 
on a scale of magnificence and liberality hitherto 
unknown in Europe. 

Due may safely say, without exaggeration, that 
Crockford won the whole of the ready money of the 
then existing generation. As is often the case at 
Lords' Cricket - ground, the great match of the 
gentlemen of England against the professional 
players was won by the latter. It was a very 
hollow thing, and in a few years twelve hundred 
thousand pounds were swept away by the fortunate 
fishmonger. He did not, however, die worth more 
than a sixth part of this vast sum ; the difference 
being swallowed up in various unlucky speculations. 



Crockford's Club. 83 

No one can describe the splendour and excite- 
ment of the early days of Crockey. A supper of the 
most exquisite kind, prepared by the famous Ude, 
and accompanied by the best wines in the world, 
together with every luxury of the season, was fur- 
nished gratis. The members of the club included 
all the celebrities of England, from the Duke of 
Wellington to the youngest Ensign of the Guards ; 
and at the gay and festive board, which was con- 
stantly replenished from midnight to early dawn, 
the most brilliant sallies of wit, the most agreeable 
conversation, the most interesting anecdotes, inter- 
spersed with grave political discussions and acute 
logical reasoning on every conceivable subject, pro- 
ceeded from the soldiers, scholars, statesmen, poets, 
and men of pleasure, who, when the " house was up " 
and balls and parties at an end, delighted to finish 
their evening with a little supper and a good deal 
of hazard at old Crockey's. The tone of the club 
was excellent. A most gentlemanlike feeling pre- 
vailed, and none of the rudeness, familiarity, and 
ill- breeding which disgrace some of the minor clubs 
of the present day, would have been tolerated for a 
moment. 

Though not many years have elapsed since the 
time of which I write, the supper-table had a very 
different appearance from what it would present 
did the club now exist. Beards were completely 
unknown, and the rare mustachios were only worn 
by officers of the Household Brigade or hussar 
regiments. Stiff white neckcloths, blue coats and 
brass buttons, rather short-waisted white waist- 
coats, and tremendously embroidered shirt-fronts 
with gorgeous studs of great value, were considered 



84 Crochford's Club. 



the right thing. A late deservedly popular Colonel 
in the Guards used to give Storr and Mortimer 
£25 a year to furnish him with a new set of studs 
every Saturday night during the London season. 

The great foreign diplomatists, Prince Talleyrand, 
Count Pozzo di Borgo, General Alava, the Duke of 
Palmella, Prince Esterhazy, the French, Prussian, 
Spanish, Portuguese, and Austrian ambassadors, and 
all persons of distinction and eminence who arrived 
in England, belonged to Crockford's as a matter of 
course ; but many rued the day when they became 
members of that fascinating but dangerous coterie. 
The gi-eat Duke himself, always rather a friend of 
the dandies, did not disdain to appear now and 
then at this charming club ; whilst the late Lord 
Eaglan, Lord Anglesey, Sir Hussey Vivian, and many 
more of our Peninsula and Waterloo heroes, were con- 
stant visitors. The two great novelists of the day, 
who have since become great statesmen, Disraeli 
and Bulwer Lytton, displayed at that brilliant sup- 
per-table the one his sable, the other his auburn 
curls ; there Horace Twiss made proof of an appe- 
tite, and Edward Montague of a thirst, which 
astonished all beholders; whilst the bitter jests of 
Sir Joseph Copley, Colonel Armstrong, and John 
Wilson Croker, and the brilliant wit of Alvanley, 
were the delight of all present, and their bons mots 
were the next day retailed all over England. 

In the play-room might be heard the clear 
ringing voice of that agreeable reprobate, Tom 
Duncombe, as he cheerfully called, "Seven," and 
the powerful hand of the vigorous Sefton in 
throwing for a ten. There might be noted the 
scientific dribbling of a four by "Kino-" Allen, 



Crockford's Club. 85 

the tremendous backing of nines and fives by Ball 
Hughes and Auriol, the enormous stakes played 
for by Lords Lichfield and Chesterfield, George 
Payne, Sir St Vincent Cotton, D'Orsay, and George 
Anson, and, above all, the gentlemanly bearing and 
calm and unmoved demeanour, under losses or 
gains, of all the men of that generation. 

The old fishmonger himself, seated snug and sly 
at his desk in the corner of the room, watchful as 
the dragon that guarded the golden apples of the 
Hesperides, would only give credit to sure and 
approved signatures. Who that ever entered that 
dangerous little room can ever forget the large 
green table with the croupiers, Page, Darking, and 
Bacon, with their suave manners, sleek appearance, 
stiff white neckcloths, and the almost miraculous 
quickness and dexterity with which they swept 
away the money of the unfortunate punters when 
the fatal cry of " Deuce ace," " Aces," or " Sixes 
out," was heard in answer to the caster's bold cry 
of " Seven," or " Nine," or " Five 's the main." 

nodes ccenceque detim ! but the brightest 
medal has its reverse, and after all the wit and 
gaiety and excitement of the night, how disagree- 
able the waking up, and how very unpleasant the 
sight of the little card, with its numerous figures 
marked down on the debtor side in the fine bold 
hand of Mr Page. Alas, poor Crockey's ! shorn of 
its former glory, has become a sort of refuge for 
the destitute, a cheap dining-house. How are the 
mighty fallen ! Irish buckeens, spring captains, 
"welcners" from Newmarket, and suspicious-look- 
ing foreigners, may be seen swaggering, after dinner, 
through the marble halls and up that gorgeous stair- 



86 " King" Alien. 



case where once the chivalry of England loved to 
congregate ; and those who remember Crockford's 
in all its glory, cast, as they pass, a look of unavail- 
ing regret at its clingy walls, with many a sigh to 
the memory of the pleasant days they passed there, 
and the gay companions and noble gentlemen who 
have long since gone to their last home. 



tr 



"King" Allen. — The late Viscount Allen, com- 
monly called " King '"' Allen, was a well-known char- 
acter in London for many years. He was a tall, 
stout, and pompous-looking personage, remarkably 
well got up, with an invariably new-looking hat 
and well-polished boots. His only exercise and 
usual walk was from White's to Crockford's, and 
from Crockford's to White's. 

AYho in this ponderous old man would have re- 
cognised the gallant youth who, as Ensign in the 
Guards, led on his men with incredible energy and 
activity across the ravine at Talavera ; where, if the 
great Duke had not sent the 48th Begiment to their 
assistance, very little more would have been heard 
of " King " Allen and his merry men 1 But one of 
the most famous dandies of his day was not fated 
thus to perish ; and he was preserved for thirty years 
after the great battle, to swagger down Bond Street 
or lounge on the sunny side of Pall Mall, to become 
an arbiter elegant iarum amongst the tailors, and a 
Maecenas at the opera and play- 
To render the '■ King" perfectly happy, one little 
item was wanting — money. His estates, if he ever 
had any, had long passed from him, and he had 
much difficulty in making the two ends meet. 
When, for economy's sake, he was obliged to retire 



King" Allen. 87 



for a short time to Dublin, he had a very large door 
in Merrion Square, with an almost equally large 
brass plate, on which his name was engraved in 
letters of vast size ; but it was very much doubted 
whether there was any house behind it. He was 
a great diner out ; and one spiteful old lady, 
whom he had irritated by some uncivil remarks, 
told him that his title was as good as board wages 
to him. 

Strange to say, this mauvais sujet was a great 
friend of the late Sir Eobert Peel, when Chief Secre- 
tary for Ireland ; and on one occasion, when they 
were proceeding in an open carriage to dine with 
a friend a few miles from Dublin, in passing 
through a village, they had the misfortune to 
drive over the oldest inhabitant, an ancient bel- 
dam, who was generally stationed on the bridge. 
A large mob gathered round the carriage ; and as 
Peel and the Tory Government were very unpopu- 
lar at the period to which I refer, the mob began 
to grow abusive, and cast very threatening and 
ominous looks at the occupants of the barouche ; 
when* the "King," with a coolness and self-possession 
worthy of Brummel, rose up, displaying an acre of 
white waistcoat, and called out, "Now, postboy, go 
on, and don't drive over any more old women." 
The mob, awe-struck by "King" Allen's majestic 
deportment, retired, and "the industrious and idle 
apprentices " went on their way rejoicing. 

The " King " was not a very good-natured person ; 
and as he had a strong, inclination to, and some 
talent for, sarcasm, he made himself many enemies. 
To give an idea of his " style." When the statue of 
George III. was erected in front of Eansom's bank- 



88 " King" Allen. 



ing-house, Mr Williams, one of the partners, com- 
monly known by the name of " Swell Bill," peti- 
tioned the Woods and Forests to remove that work 
of art, as it collected a crowd of little boys, who 
were peculiarly facetious on the subject of the pig- 
tail of that obstinate but domestic monarch, and 
otherwise obstructed business. Lord Allen, meet- 
in o- Williams at White's, said, "I should have 
thought the erection of the statue rather an advan- 
tage to you, because, while you are standing idle at 
your own shop door, it would prevent you seeing 
the crowds hurrying to the respectable establishment 
of Messrs Coutts & Co., close by in the Strand." 

The " King " did not possess much wit, but no 
one could say more disagreeable things at the most 
disagreeable moment. I remember his setting down 
the late Lady N , daughter-in-law of a cele- 
brated legal functionary of that name, in rather an 
amusing manner. She was a vulgar Irish grazier's 
daughter, extremely plain, and clipped the King's 
English in a vain attempt to conceal a mellifluous 
King's County brogue. After passing many years in 
Rutland Square, Dublin, she suddenly found herself a 
Countess, with a large income. Her first step after 
this accession of dignity and fortune was to start for 
London, where she affected to have passed her life. 
On meeting Lord Allen soon after her arrival, she 
extended one finger of her little fat hand, and in 
a drawling, affected tone of voice said, " My Lard 
Alleen, how long have you been in London \ " 
" Forty years, ma'am," growled out the " Kino-." 

Lord Allen greatly resembled in later life an an- 
cient grey parrot, both in the aquiline outline of his 
features, and his peculiar mode of walking, with one 



Ball Hughes. 89 



foot crossed over the other in a slow and wary man- 
ner. He was a regular Cockney, and very seldom 
left London ; but on one occasion, when he had gone 
clown with Alvanley to Dover for the sake of his 
health, and complained to his facetious friend that 
he could get no sleep, Alvanley ordered a coach to 
drive up and down in front of the inn windows all 
night, and made the boots call out, in imitation of 
the London watchmen of that day, " Half-past two, 
and a stormy night." The well-known rumble of 
the wheels, and the dulcet tones of the boots, had 
the desired effect ; the " King " passed excellent 
nights, and was soon able to return to his little 
house in South Street with renewed health and 
spirits. 

Lord Allen was at last obliged to leave London, 
after coming to an understanding with his credi- 
tors ; and after passing some time at Cadiz, died at 
Gibraltar in 1843, when his title became extinct. 

Ball Hughes. — I was at Eton with my late 
friend Ball Hughes, whose recent death was so much 
lamented in Paris. He was known at Eton by the 
name of Ball only ; but the year before he came of 
age, he took the additional name of Hughes, his 
uncle, Admiral Hughes, having left him the fortune 
he had amassed during his command of the fleet on 
the Indian seas, and which was supposed to be not 
less than forty thousand a year. But Hughes 
entered the army early in life, his uncle having 
bought him a commission in the 7th Hussars, and 
made him a handsome allowance. He was a great 
imitator of the Colonel of his regiment, the Earl of 
Uxbridge, afterwards Marquis of Anglesea, whom he 



90 Ball Iiuahes. 

took as a model for his coats, hats, and boots ; in- 
deed everything that his noble commander said or 
did was law to him. Hughes was a remarkably- 
handsome man, and made a considerable figure in 
the best society ; his manners were excellent ; he 
was a thoroughly amiable, agreeable fellow, and 
universally popular. 

When he came into his fortune, he was considered 
a great match bv all the women in London. He fell 
desperately in love with Lady Jane Paget, the 
daughter of his Colonel, and the marriage-settle- 
ments were all arranged ; but, unluckily for the 
disappointed lover, Lady Jane, at the last moment, 
gave a most decided negative, and the match was 
broken off. Ball was not long disconsolate, but 
looking around him, fixed his attention upon the 
lovely Miss Floyd, who afterwards married Sir 
Robert Peel ; finding his attentions unacceptable in 
that quarter, he proposed to Lady Caroline Church- 
ill, afterwards Lady Caroline Pennant, but here 
he was refused. This, however, did not prevent 
him from being considered an eligible match by a 
great many mothers, who diligently sought his 
society He was courted, followed, and admired by 
every one who had daughters to dispose of; but, 
unfortunately for him, the young ladies, having 
heard of his numerous disappointments, were not 
ready to unite their fate with a man whose rejected 
addresses were so well known. " The Golden Ball," 
as he was called, continued, nevertheless, to make his 
appearance everywhere. He was devoted to female 
society ; no dinner, ball, pic-nic, or party, was com- 
plete unless the popular millionaire formed one of 
the social circle. 



Ball Hughes. 9 1 



Ball Hughes's first step, on entering into possession 
of his fortune, was to employ Mr Wyatt the archi- 
tect to furnish a mansion for him in Brook Street. 
No expense was spared to make it as near per- 
fection as possible. Wyatt had a carte-blanche, 
and bought for him buhl furniture, rich hangings, 
statues, bronzes, and works of art to an extent that 
made an inroad even upon his wealth. 

A beautiful Spanish danseuse, named Mercan- 
rlotti, arrived about this time in London, in the midst 
of the gay season of 1822, under the immediate 
patronage of Lord Fife. She was then only fifteen 
years of age, and by some she was believed to be his 
daughter, by others only his 'protegee. At Barce- 
lona she was considered inimitable ; at Madrid she 
gained great applause ; in Seville she acquired im- 
mense reputation ; and by the time the lovely girl 
reached London, great curiosity was excited to see 
the new candidate for public favour at the King's 
Theatre, where she was enfma;ed for the season at 
£800. The new debutante met with complete suc- 
cess, and was pronounced divine. All the dandies 
who had the entree behind the scenes surrounded 
her and paid her homage, and more than one scion 
of the fashionable world offered to surrender his 
liberty for life to the fascinating dancer. Ebers, 
then manager of the theatre, was pestered from 
morning to night by young men of fashion anxious 
to obtain an introduction to Mademoiselle Mercan- 
dotti, but they were invariably referred by the im- 
presario to Lord Fife. 

One night, March 8, 1823, the house was enor- 
mously crowded by an audience eager to see the 
favourite in the then popular ballet by Auber, 



92 Ball Hughes. 



"Alfred;" when just before the curtain drew up, the 
manager came forward and expressed his regret that 
Mademoiselle Mercandotti had disappeared, and that 
he had been unable to discover where she had gone. 
Knowing ones, however, guessed that she had been 
carried off by the "Golden Ball," whose advances had 
been very favourably received, and who had evi- 
dently made a strong impression upon the damsel ; 
and a few days after, the Morning Post announced 
that a marriage had taken place between a young 
man of large fortune and one of the most remark- 
able dancers of the age. The persons present at the 
marriage were the mother of the bride, Mr Ebers, 
and Lord Fife. The honeymoon was passed at 
Oatlands, which the happy bridegroom had shortly 
before purchased from the Duke of York. 

Ainsworth wrote the following epigram on this 
event — 

" The fair damsel is gone ; and no wonder at all 
That, bred to the dance, she is gone to a Ball." 

Ball Hughes died at St Germains two years ago. 
His fortune had dwindled down to a fourth of its 
original amount, for lie was perhaps the greatest 
gambler of his day. His love of play was such, that 
at one period of his life he would rather play at 
pitch and toss than be without his favourite excite- 
ment. He told me that at one time he had lost 
considerable sums at battledoor and shuttlecock. 
On one occasion, immediately afcer dinner, he and 
the eccentric Lord Petersham commenced playino- 
with these toys, and continued hard at work durino- 
the whole of the night ; next morning he was found 
by his valet lying on the ground, fast asleep, but 
ready for any other species of speculation. His pur- 



Scrope Davies. 93 



chase of Oatlands, which at the time was considered 
a foolish one, proved a very good speculation ; for it 
was sold, for building villas, for so large a sum, that 
Hughes, whose fortune had dwindled to a mere 
pittance, became in his latter days very well off 
again ; and though he lived in retirement, kept a 
large establishment, and was in the enjoyment of 
every luxury. 

Scrope Davies. — The name of Scrope Davies is 
now but little known, except in connexion with 
Brummell's exit from the fashionable world of Lon- 
don, and from his being occasionally mentioned by 
Lord Byron and by Moore ; yet few men were 
better received in society, or more the fashion than 
he once was. He was educated at Eton, and from 
thence he migrated in due time to King's College, 
Cambridge, of which he became a fellow ; there he 
formed those acquaintance that at a later period 
served as an introduction into that world of which 
he soon became a distinguished ornament. His 
manners and appearance were of the true Brummell 
type : there was nothing showy in his exterior. He 
was quiet and reserved in ordinary company, but 
he was the life and soul of those who relished learn- 
ing and wit ; being a ripe scholar, and well read, he 
was always ready with an apt quotation. 

As was the case with many of the foremost men 
of that day, the greater number of his hours were 
passed at the gambling-table, where for a length 
of time he was eminently successful ; for he was a 
first-rate calculator. He seldom played against indi- 
viduals ; he preferred going to the regular estab- 
lishments, But on one occasion he had, by a 



94 Scrope Davies. 

remarkable run of good luck, completely ruined a 
young man who had just reached his majority and 
come into the possession of a considerable fortune. 
The poor youth sank down upon a sofa in abject 
misery, when he reflected that he was a beggar ; for 
he was on the point of marriage. Scrope Davies, 
touched by his despair, entered into conversation 
with him, and ended by giving him back the whole 
of his losses, upon a solemn promise that lie never 
would play again. The only thing that Scrope re- 
tained of his winnings was one of the little carriages 
of that dav, called a dormeuse, from its being fitted 
up with a bed, for he said, " When I travel in it I 
shall sleep the better for having acted rightly." The 
youth kept his promise ; but when his benefactor 
wanted money, he forgot that he owed all he possessed 
to Scrope's generosity, and refused to assist him. 

For a long time Scrope Davies was a lucky player ; 
but the time arrived when Fortune deserted her old 
favourite ; and, shortly after the Dandy dynasty was 
overthrown, he found himself unable to mingle with 
the rich, the giddy, and the gay- With the wreck 
of his fortune, and indeed but little to live upon 
beyond the amount of his own Cambridge fellow- 
ship, he sought repose in Paris, and there, indulging 
in literary leisure, bade the world farewell. He had 
but few intimates, and those only whom he had for- 
merly known in his days of affluence. 

He was a great admirer of Moore, and when 
some one said the poet had incurred reproach for 
writing "Little's" Poems, Scrope said the Eoman 
poet has best expressed himself on that subject : 
Ubi plura niteiit, 11011 ego paucis qffendar macu- 
lis ; which he thus translated, " Moore shines 



Scrope JDavies. 95 



so brightly that I cannot find fault with Little's 
vagaries." He also said, Ne plus ultra — nothing 
is better than Moore. Somebody observing that 
Moore was a true Irish name, but it was nothing 
without the addition of 0, " Oh/' replied Scrope, 
" I always thought that O'thello, Moor of Venice, 
was an Irishman, from the blunders that he made." 
He remarked, on one occasion, "You can find in 
Shakespeare an apt expression for everything that 
this earth affords." Somebody asked, " Where does 
Shakespeare ever allude to the tread-mill % " " Oh," 
answered Scrope, '"'you will find in 'King Lear' the 
words, ' Down, down, thou climbing sorrow !'" " Not 
an exact quotation," retorted one who was present. 
" Yes," said Scrope , " but the old king was in a 
rage when he expressed himself." 

Scrope Davies bore with perfect resignation the 
loss of the wealth he had once possessed ; and 
though his annual income was very limited, he made 
no complaint of poverty. He daily sat himself down 
on a bench in the garden of the Tuileries, where 
he received those whose acquaintance he desired, 
and then returned to his study, where he wrote 
notes upon the men of his day, which have unfor- 
tunately disappeared : that they existed there can 
be no doubt, as he occasionally read extracts from 
his diary to those* in whom he placed confidence. 
Ball Hughes was about the last of his visitors. 
Scrope found the former gay young man very much 
improved in mind by adversity, and was wont to 
say, " He is no longer ' Golden Ball ;' but since the 
gilt is off, he rolls on much more smoothly than he 
did." Having heard that Brummell had obtained a 
consulship when Lord Melbourne came into office, 



96 Thomas Moore 



Scrope went over to London and had an interview 
with the noble Lord ; but he told his friends, " Lamb 
looked so sheepish when I was ushered into his 
presence, that I asked him for nothing; indeed 
there were so many nibbling at his grass, that I felt 
I ouoht not to jump over the fence into the meadow 
upon which siuh animals were feeding." 

Thomas Moore. — During my residence in Paris, 
several distinguished men took up their abode for 
a time, and were universally well received. Thomas 
Moore stayed for a considerable length of time, and 
his diary, admirably edited by Lord John Eussell, 
shews most minutely how his hours were spent, 
and the people with, whom he mingled. He was a 
favourite guest everywhere, but he was attracted 
only where a good cuisine would satisfy the taste 
of the gourmet. He realised (at least in Paris) Sir 
Edward Lytton Bulwer's admirable conception of 
LordGuloseton, in his ever favourite novel, "Pelham." 
When Moore had received an invitation to dinner 
from an untried Amphitryon, previous to returning 
an answer he cross-examined all who visited him. 
Had his friend an established kitchen, with a chef of 
his own 1 or did he depend upon a neighbouring 
restaurateur ? Did the cltef deserve the name of an 
artiste? Were the wines of a choice quality'? Did 
they come direct from wine-growing countries'? or 
were they likely to be the product of some Parisian 
wine-doctor % All these questions were asked with a 
serious earnestness that exhibited the great poet's ex- 
quisite taste in the pleasures of the table. It must, 
however, be added, that he was equally anxious that 
the invited 'should be intellectual or distinguished 



Thomas Moore. 97 



persons ; and one stipulation in accepting the invita- 
tion was that English should be the language of the 
table : nothing seemed to annoy him more thoroughly 
than to find that, for the sake of a single individual, 
French should be the order of the day. 

Whatever might be his peculiarities and his de- 
mands, however, they were amply repaid by the 
brilliancy of his conversation and the charm of his 
manners. He would now and then, when entirely at 
his ease with well-known friends, give an imitation 
of the great Irish orator Curran, which those who 
had known the original pronounced to be perfect, 
while those who had never seen him were delighted 
with the wit and humour that were introduced ; but 
it was when the dinner was ended, the drawing- 
room reached, and a few of his much loved country- 
women were present, that the charm of Moore's 
society was felt. Almost without an invitation he 
would unaffectedly sit down to the pianoforte and 
warble forth some of those enchanting melodies 
which he has given to a grateful nation, accompany- 
ing himself with exquisite taste ; his voice was rich 
in tone, and the expression he threw into his owu 
words, combined with his beaming face and genial 
manner, elicited the admiration of all. Those who 
have heard him sing " Those Evening Bells/' and 
" Oft in the Stilly Night," will carry a recollection 
of one of the most agreeable moments of their lives, 
He fully deserved the cognomen of " Anacreon," by 
which he was much known in Parisian society. The 
French are accustomed to Christian names of Greek 
origin ; they have Achilles, Hector, and I have known 
several Nestors and one Epaminondas : indeed it is 
their not unfrequent custom to drop the surname. 

G 



98 Francis Hare. 



Many men are distinguished entirely by the pre- 
nomen ; and as "Anacreon" Moore had been the 
sobriquet of the illustrious Irish lyric poet, from the 
time of his translation of the classic bard, he was soon 
christened "Anacreon," and as such generally known. 
I remember once visiting M. Sommarivas's 
collection, and on mounting the staircase, the 
domestic whispered into my ear that " Monsieur 
Anacreon " was in one of the saloons , as that name 
had not then reached my ears, I asked him who was 
" Monsieur Anacreon ;" the man looked at me with 
something like astonishment at the question, and 
after a short pause said, " It is your great English 
Benin o;er that is looking at our collection." On 
entering the saloon my mind was enlightened by re- 
cognising the bard of Erin, who, with animated looks 
and lively gestures, was pointing out the beauties 
of an antique statue ; he wore the earnest and in- 
tellectual expression which distinguished him when 
delighting his friends with a barcarolle, or one of 
his sweetest melodies. Moore always heard with 
infinite pleasure any compliment paid to his wife; 
indeed one of his most remarkable characteristics 
was his intense fondness for her ; he was in fact 
the most uxorious of mortals, and thouo-h he could 
smile on an)' pretty woman, all his affections were 
centred in his charming " Bessy." 

Fjgaxcis Hare. — Francis Hare, sarcastically 
nicknamed " The Silent Hare," from his extreme 
loquacity, was remarkable for his leanness, his appe- 
tite, and his conversational powers. He could not 
only speak every European language, but all the 
various patois of each tongue, with a rapid and 



Francis Hare. 99 



effervescent utterance that reminded one of the 
rushing of some alpine torrent, or Pyreneean Gave 
battling with the impediments that obstruct its 
course. His memory was as surprising as his 
loquacity ; he could repeat whole pages from almost 
any book that was mentioned in his presence, and 
" come down " with effect on any unlucky wight 
who had made an incorrect quotation from some 
rare or obsolete volume, which might have been 
supposed to be unknown to all present. 

One day, in a country house, his friends had made 
a bet that they would catch him napping, and start 
a subject on which he could have nothing to say 
With this view they read up an article in an ency- 
clopaedia of that time, on Chinese music. At dinner 
one of the conspirators introduced the subject, a 
second took it up, and a third exhausted the know- 
ledge they had gained by reading the learned essay. 
To their intense astonishment, Hare, in his excited, 
spluttering manner, took up the topic, contradicted 
all the statements that had been made, proved that 
they were all in the wrong, and concluded by say- 
ing, " I see, my good fellows, where you have taken 
your impressions about the harmony of the Celestial 
Empire. You have found them in an article in such 
an encyclopaedia, which I myself wrote ten years 
ago ; but since then I have studied the subject and 
conversed with well-informed travellers, and I have 
arrived at conclusions diametrically opposed to those 
I held when I wrote the article."* 

Hare was very fond of practical jokes and mysti- 
fications of all sorts. While passing a winter at 

* This anecdote is also told of Professor Whewell, the Master of 
Trinity. 



100 Francis Hare. 



Pisa, he amused himself, (rather sacrilegiously, I must 
admit,) one day that he was visiting the baptistry, 
by entering a confessional. In this quiet old town 
the priests have a good deal of rustic simplicity 
about them, and doubtless Hare would never have 
attempted the same joke either at Florence or Borne, 
where tales of deadly crimes are too common to 
astonish the confessor. 

Hare, having selected a round-faced, innocent- 
looking priest as his victim, went up to the con- 
fessional, knelt down with a look of penitential 
sorrow, and poured forth in the purest Tuscan the 
most hideous tale of guilt that ever reached a good 
father's car : robbery, blasphemy, sacrilege, rape, and 
murder were owned to in quick and horrifying 
succession ; till at last the fat priest's placid coun- 
tenance wore an expression of frantic terror, and 
opening the other door of the confessional, without 
cap or breviary, he rushed from the place, and tore 
down the street, never stopping till he had reached 
his own dwelling. 

In mentioning the name of Hare, I am reminded 
of a circumstance which occurred to him during the 
Hundred Days. The English, including our embassy, 
were so frightened at the unexpected return of the 
Emperor, that they fled from France as if Old Nick 
had made his appearance. Hare, on the contrary, 
remained, and at the first levee held by Napoleon, he 
made his appearance at the Tuileries, where he was 
presented to his Majesty- 
Napoleon addressed him in the following words : 
— " Weil, sir, what has kept you in Paris, when your 
countrymen have all left V "To see the greatest 
man in Europe, sir." " Ah, it is, then, your opinion, 



Theodore Hook — Cosway. 101 

having seen and conversed with me, that I am not 
that wild beast I am represented to be by your 
ministers and the members of your Houses of Par- 
liament." " Oh no, sir, it cannot be the opinion of 
the English ministers ; but I blush when I call to 
mind the manner in which your name has been 
traduced by our garrulous members of both Houses." 
This little episode, and the remarks said to have 
been made by Hare, reached London in an in- 
credibly short time, when our newspapers attacked 
him in no measured terms, stating that he was a 
traitor to his country, and ought to be prosecuted 
forthwith. But Hare could afford to laugh at their 
abuse and threats ; and on his return to England 
after the fall of Napoleon, used often to relate witli 
pleasure, and not without some emotion, the con- 
versation he had held with the great French 
Emperor. 

Theodore Hook. — I remember being present at 
a dinner in London, when a very severe and saturnine 
Scotch Presbyterian was abusing Sunday news- 
papers, and concluded a violent tirade by saying, 
"I am determined to set my face against them." 
"So am I" said Theodore Hook, "every Sunday 
morning;." He was well known at that time to be 
the editor of the John Bull weekly journal. 

Cosway the Painter. — The miniature painter 
Cosway enjoyed the reputation of drawing the long- 
bow to a remarkable extent. He was once relating, 
in my presence, to a large party of incredulous 
listeners, the story of a boy who had fallen from the 
top of a church steeple without sustaining any ma- 



102 Martin Hawhc. 



terial injury. When he had come to a conclusion, 
there were a few murmurs, expressive of doubt as to 
the possibility of such a miraculous preservation, 
when Cosway, looking round on the company with 
a glance of solemn defiance, exclaimed, " I was that 
boy ! " 

Martin Hawke. — The Hon. Martin Hawke was 
a remarkable character, of a somewhat original 
and eccentric turn of mind. He lived many years 
abroad, and was the principal person who introduced, 
and rendered popular on the Continent, horse- 
racing, cricket, and other manly sports. He was well 
known in Paris, Tours, and Boulogne. He was an 
excellent horseman, a first-rate pugilist, a capital 
shot, was passionately fond of field sports, and had a 
great aversion to anything in the shape of poaching. 
He had several very serious encounters in France 
with some very rough customers, whom he found 
shooting on the manors he had hired ; and nothing 
but his great strength and courage prevented him 
from falling a sacrifice to their vengeance. Upon 
one occasion he discovered, to his great joy, a net, 
which had been set near a wood the night before, 
and was full of woodcocks. He placed them in his 
greatcoat pocket, and, arriving at the market-place 
at Boulogne, where several of his friends had congre- 
gated, he addressed them thus : — " Gentlemen, I will 
shew you a strange sight — some live woodcocks." 
His friends laughed, and rallied him for endeavour- 
ing to impose upon their credulity. In an instant 
out flew, from his greatcoat pocket, several wood- 
cocks. Brooke Eichmond, who squinted a little, 
asked Martin for one of the cocks, upon which 



Lord Normanby. 103 

Martin replied, "My good fellow, they have all 
flown away — except the one in your eye." 

When in Paris some forty years back, Hawke 
received, through Sir C. Stewart, our ambassador, 
an invitation to accompany the Due de Berri on a 
shootino- excursion in the forest of St Germain. 
Prior to the chase, Alexandre de Girardin, the 
grand veneur, or huntsman, informed the gentlemen 
who were invited that it was not etiquette for them 
to fire before his Eoyal Highness had discharged his 
gun. As bad luck would have it, Hawke, in the 
ardour of the moment, had completely forgotten 
the hint given him ; for on the first cock-pheasant 
getting up, Hawke, who was rather quicker than 
the royal sportsman, knocked it over close to the 
feet of the Duke, who in a great rage cried out, in 
English, "Who the devil are you, sir, who have 
disobeyed my orders'?" Martin, rather ashamed, 
mentioned his name. The Duke replied, " A droll 
name yours is, Mr ' Hock ; ' " upon which Martin, 
nothing abashed, said, " Oh, sir, your Eoyal High- 
ness must be acquainted with it already, for my 
grandfather Admiral Hawke's name was well known 
in the French navy." The Due de Berri took this 
retort very good-humouredly, and said, " Well, 
well, Mr Hawke, you are a plain-spoken sort of 
fellow : I like your frankness and spirit, and there- 
fore hope, the next time I have a shooting party at 
St Germain, you will accompany me again." Alas! 
the following night the good-natured Prince, on 
entering the opera, was assassinated by Louvel. 

Lord Normanby. — The first time I ever saw 
Lord Normanby was in 1816, during a morning 



104 Lord Normanby. 



visit at the Eight Hon. George Tierney's, in Strat- 
ton Street. He was then a remarkably pleasing 
and good-looking young man; and I remember a 
circumstance which may account for his enter- 
ing political life as a Liberal. 

His father, Lord Mulgrave, was a high Tory, 
had long been a member of the administration of 
Pitt and his successors, and at the time of which 
I speak he was Master- General of the Ordnance. 
On the occasion to which I refer, Lord Normanby, 
in the course of conversation, informed those pres- 
ent that his father had in a most unceremonious 
manner been dismissed from his high post to make 
way for the Duke of "Wellington. He denounced, 
in the bitterest terms, the conduct of the Govern- 
ment towards so old a public servant as his father, 
and swore he never would forgive them. 

He shortly afterwards entered Parliament as an 
advanced Liberal, always voted with the Whigs ; 
and when they came into office in 1830, he was ap- 
pointed Governor of Jamaica. On his return thence 
to England, he filled the post of Lord-Lieutenant 
of Ireland, under very difficult circumstances, and 
at a period of great importance, with general ap- 
plause. His pleasing and conciliating manners 
made him a general favourite ; and the Vice-Eegal 
Court during his stay was a very brilliant one. He 
afterwards became Secretary of State ; and in 1847, 
ambassador at Paris. He conducted himself with 
considerable tact, and shewed a certain amount of 
ability during the latter part of the reign of Louis 
Philippe. On the establishment of the Republic, he 
had the good sense to keep quiet, and to remain on 
good terms with the poets, wood-merchants, and 



Lord Normanby. 105 

journalists who successively held office. But I do 
not think he conducted his relations with the 
present Emperor in a very adroit manner. He 
misjudged the Prince's capacity and character, and 
assumed rather a protecting tone with him ; and 
when the coup d'etat took place, he did not believe 
that Lord Palmerston would, with his usual de- 
cision and foresight, recognise Louis Napoleon as 
Emperor, immediately the choice of the French 
nation became known. Lord Normanby afterwards 
engaged in intrigues against his chief at the Foreign 
Office, and the latter period of his embassy was not 
a very satisfactory one, either to himself or to his 
admirers. 

On his resignation, and after an attack of paraly- 
sis, he was appointed minister to Florence. This 
post was given him in lieu of a retiring pension, 
and because the climate suited him ; and Lord 
Normanby, with his palazzo in town and the Villa 
Normanby near Fiesole, recalled to his old friends 
the pleasant clays they had spent with him thirty 
years before, when he resided there as a private 
gentleman before his accession to office, and when 
his theatricals were the delight of all who visited 
Italy 

On the accession of the Tories to power, Lord 
Normanby and Lord Howden, our envoy to Madrid, 
were, with an unparalleled want of courtesy, im- 
mediately informed by a telegraphic despatch that 
Her Majesty had no longer any occasion for their ser- 
vices. The insulting nature of this dismissal at the 
hands of Lord Malmesbury had no effect upon the 
fixed determination of Lord Normanby to leave his 
old friends the Whigs. It is supposed that the im- 



106 Lord Normanhy . 



mense success of the paternal governments of Naples, 
.Florence, Parma, Lucca, and Modena, in making 
their people happy and contented, must have pro- 
duced this change in Lord Normanby's opinions ; 
for, immediately on his return to England, he 
became a most violent Tory ; and in his frequent 
speeches in the House of Lords arraigned and 
attacked on all occasions the foreign policy of the 
"Whigs, and that with a blind and almost rabid 
violence, and a degree of bitterness and ill nature, 
which astonished and disgusted his old friends. 

Let us hope that this extraordinary change 
both in the opinions and feelings of so generally 
popular and amiable a man was the effect of disease, 
and attributable to the severe attack of illness 
from which he had suffered for several years before 
his death. He was the man of all others who 
should not have left the Liberal party. He was the 
spoiled child of the Whigs, and had received from 
them every great appointment and every distinc- 
tion it was in their power to give. Besides the 
high offices I have before enumerated, he was made 
a Marquis, a Grand Cross of the Bath, and a Knight 
of the Garter. 

I remember, apropos of this, that when Lord 
Melbourne was minister, Edward Ellice and the 
Premier were looking one mornino; from the win- 
dows of the first Lord's residence in Downing Street 
into St James's Park, and saw Lord Normanby 
approaching. On Mr Ellice inquiring what he 
could be coining for, Lord Melbourne said, in his 
off-hand manner, " I don't know what the devil the 
fellow can want, unless he comes to ask for a 
second garter for his other leg." In fact, the com 



Lord Normanby. 107 

nionest gratitude should have made Lord Normanby 
pause before he took the fatal step which sullied 
the close of his political career. 

Let me turn from this last lamentable error, and 
remember only his many good and amiable quali- 
ties. He was certainly one of the most courteous 
and agreeable of our ministers and diplomatists. 
There was no hauteur or reserve in his manner, and 
yet a natural dignity which prevented all undue 
familiarity. He was a fluent and ready speaker, 
and wrote with ease and elegance. When in Dub- 
lin he was much beloved by all around him, for he 
was a thoroughly good-natured man; and because 
this expression has been often misunderstood and 
supposed to mean weak or silly, let us not despise 
this rare and precious gift, much oftener bestowed 
on men of intellect than on fools. Till his illness, 
Lord Normanby was never heard to say an unkind 
thing of any one ; and though in the latter years 
of his life he carried this amiable quality too far, 
when he took the part of the ex-King of Naples, 
the Duke of Modena, the Pope, and the brigands 
and assassins of Antonelli and Merode, yet this 
kindness in the days of his prosperity had a win- 
ning charm, because it was genuine, and sprang 
from a really good heart. 

Had Lord Normanby not taken to politics and 
become a Viceroy and Secretary of State, he would 
have achieved great success as a literary man. His 
two novels, "Matilda," and "Yes and No," were 
worthy to be placed on a par with the best of their 
day; and had he been obliged to earn his bread, 
he might have been a Bulwer or a Kemble. For 
besides his literary acquirements, he had a remark- 



108 Equipages in London and Paris. 

able talent for acting ; and his theatre at Florence, 
some forty years ago, might have vied with many 
of the best establishments in London or Paris. 
Lord Normanby had a thousand good and amiable 
qualities ; and those who knew him will long remem- 
ber with regret his pleasant conversation, his genial 
smile, and kind, open-hearted manner. 

A Mother in Israel. — Old Madame Rothschild, 
mother of the mighty capitalists, attained the ao-e 
of ninety-eight ; her wit, which was remarkable, 
and her intellectual faculties, which were of no 
common order, were preserved to the end. In her 
last illness, when surrounded by her family, her 
physician being present, she said in a suppliant tone 
to the latter, " Dear doctor, try to do something for 
me." " Madame, what can I do % I can't make 
you young again." " No, doctor, I don't want to 
be young again, but I want to continue to grow 
old." 

Equipages in London and Paris — The Four-in- 
hand Club. — When lately in London, on dri vino- 
through the parks, I was struck with the inferiority 
of the equipages, to those which I remember fifty 
years ago. Paris now quite equals London in ex- 
ternal display; indeed, the horses are, generally 
speaking, even superior. The Emperor, whose long 
residence in England gave him an opportunity of 
forming an idea of the care and attention necessary 
to produce a fine breed of horses, has been indefati- 
gable in selecting a stud ; and being ably seconded 
by General Fleury, introduced into France a love 
of sport which seemed almost peculiar to England, 



Equipages in London and Paris. 109 

I look back upon the time when the most magnifi- 
cent parade of horses and carriages attracted atten- 
tion in London, and when the famous Four-in- 
hand Club was the theme of general admiration. 
The spectacle of a grand turn-out of the members 
of that distinguished body was one of the glories 
of the days of the Eegent. There was a perfection 
in the minutest detail that made a well-appointed 
four-in-hand appear like a choice work of art. The 
symmetry of the horses, the arrangement of the 
harness, the plain but well-appointed carriage, the 
good taste of the liveries, the healthy, sturdy appear- 
ance of the coachmen and grooms, formed altogether 
one of those remarkable spectacles that make a last- 
ing impression upon the memory. 

The list of the members will shew that some of 
the most distinguished scions of the aristocracy were 
the persons who vied with each other in producing 
this effect. The original club embraced, I believe, 
the following leading members : — Lord Sefton, Lord 
Barrymore, Colonel Berkeley, afterwards Earl Fitz- 
hardinge, Mr Akers, Sir Bellingham Graham, Sir 
Henry Peyton, Mr Clutterbuck, Mr Cholmondely of 
Vale Boyal, Sir John Lade, Mr Lewis, Sir H. 
Mainwaring, Tom Bichards, Mr Fenwick, Lord Wor- 
cester, Mr Bowles, and the Hon. Major Forrester. 
They assembled in George Street, Hanover Square, 
and drove in regular order to Salt Hill, to the well- 
known house, named the Windmill, kept by Botham, 
where a sumptuous dinner awaited them ; after 
which they returned to London, in high spirits, and 
notunfrequently somewhat overcome by the quantity 
of sound port wine, for which that inn was celebrated. 

The driving was never of such a character as to 



110 Equipages in London and Paris. 



cause any accident ; it was steady, and well regu- 
lated , one of the rules of the club being that no 
coach should pass another, and that the pace should 
never exceed a trot. 

This club lasted in full vigour for upwards of 
twenty years, when it was broken up, in conse- 
quence of the death of many of the members, and 
the advanced ao-e of several others. The love of 
coaching still existed amongst many distinguished 
leaders of fashion, and at a meeting held at the 
house of Lord Chesterfield, in Stanhope Street, it 
was determined to revive, in its former splendour, 
this national institution, which has served as an 
encouragement to the breeding of the finest cattle 
in the universe. Amongst my papers I found a list 
of the original members of this club, which met at 
Richmond on Saturday, June 2, 1838, and passed 
a series of resolutions, that formed the basis of the 
regulations which were observed during; its existence. 

The Earl of Sefton was one of the leaders of the 
former club ; he drove splendid bay horses, and was 
acknowledged to be a man of considerable taste. 
This noble Lord, with a frame somewhat deformed, 
was a capital horseman, and was seen daily in the 
parks, accompanied by his two daughters ; one of 
whom had some pretensions to beauty, and married 
a son of the "Whig member for Mario w, Pascoe 
Grenfell, a proprietor of copper works at Swansea. 
Lord Sefton was amongst the most conspicuous 
lovers of the gastronomic art, and had secured Ude, 
the well-known chef de cuisine of Louis XVI. The 
noble Lord prided himself upon the invention of a fa- 
mous plat, composed of the soft roe of the mackerel, 
which was served up in the form of petits pates. 



Equipages in London and Paris. Ill 

Towards the end of his life, Lord Sefton became 
an habitue of Crockford's, and it was supposed that he 
left behind him there no less a sum than two hundred 
thousand pounds. After the death of the noble 
Lord, the fishmonger presented to his eldest son, 
who succeeded to the title, an acceptance of the 
late Lord's, to the tune of forty thousand pounds ; 
and Lord Sefton, notwithstanding the uncertainty 
that attended a claim so abruptly made, felt it his 
duty to discharge the debt which he was led. to 
believe had been incurred by his father. 

The Marquis of Worcester, a spirited, dashing, 
handsome young man, was much admired by the 
fair sex, and led a life of great gaiety His father, 
the Duke of Beaufort, receiving some hints that 
this promising youth was in danger of becoming 
the victim of a siren who had almost extorted from 
him a promise of marriage, the Marquis was sent 
to join the Duke of Wellington, became his aide- 
de-camp, and upon every occasion shewed that he 
was worthy the race of John of Gaunt, from which 
he sprang. 

The lady in question (Harriet Wilson) was one of 
the most notorious traviatas of the clay, had written 
her memoirs, and become the scandal of the metro- 
polis ; one of her sisters had married a peer of the 
realm, and another a famous harpist of very doubt- 
ful character, who had been one of the most licen- 
tious men of the day, and afterwards carried off the 
wife of a distinguished English composer. 

Upon the return of the Marquis from the army, 
he devoted his time to the sports of the field, his 
father's hunting establishments, both in Gloucester- 
shire and Oxfordshire, being the admiration of every 



112 Equipages in London and Paris. 



lover of the chase. He married Miss Fitzroy 
daughter of General and Lady Anne Fitzroy. 
Lady Anne, a sister of the Duke of Wellington, on 
the death of the General, became the wife of 
Sir Culling Smith. After the death of his beauti- 
ful wife, the Marquis of Worcester married her 
half-sister, from whom sprang the present Duke of 
Beaufort, who retains his ancestors' love of sport, 
and has lately made such a sensation in France by 
the splendid retinue he brought with him on the 
occasion of his visiting that country for the purpose 
of wolf-hunting. His late father was a universal 
favourite ; a dandy of the first water, and very 
much beloved by all classes with whom he came 
in contact. 

In the days of which I speak there were amateur 
coachmen, who drove with unflinching regularity, 
and in all weathers, the public stage-coaches, and 
delighted in the opportunity of assimilating them- 
selves with professional Jehus. Some young men, 
heirs of large landed proprietors, mounted the box, 
handled the ribbons, and bowled along; the liisrli- 
road , they touched their hats to their passengers, 
and some among them did not disdain even the 
tip of a shilling or half-crown, with which it was 
the custom to remunerate the coachman. Many 
persons liked travelling to Brighton in " The 
Age, " which was tooled along by Sir Vincent 
Cotton, whilst others preferred Charley Tyrrwhit. 
On the Holyhead, Oxford, and the Bath and 
Bristol roads, Lord Harborough, Lord Clonmel, 
Sir Thomas Mostyn, Sir Charles Bamfylde, Sir 
Felix Agar, Sir Henry Parnell, Sir Bellingham 
Graham, Mr Clutterbuck, Sir John Lade, and 



Equipages in London and Paris. 113 

other members of the Four-in-hand Club, were 
seen, either driving the coach or sitting cheek by 
jowl with the coachman, talking about horses and 
matters relating to " life upon the road." One of 
the members of the Four-in-hand Club, Mr Akers, 
was so determined to be looked upon as a regular 
coachman, that he had his front teeth so filed that 
a division between them might enable him to expel 
his spittle in the true fashion of some of the most 
knowing stage-coach drivers. 

Lord Onslow devoted his time to his stud, and 
being the master of four of the finest black horses 
in England, was always conspicuous in the parks ; 
but he was too eccentric to obtain the suffrages of 
any of the Four-in-hand Club, for his carriage was 
painted black, and the whole turn-out had more the 
appearance of belonging to an undertaker. Mrs 
Humphrey, at whose shop in St James's Street were 
exhibited all the best caricatures of the day, had 
a capital one in her window, in which the noble 
Lord was depicted driving his mournful equipage ; 
and the following lines at the bottom were read 
with great glee by those who had seen the original : — 

" What can Tommy Onslow do 1 
He can drive a curricle and two. 
Can Tommy Onslow do no more ? 
Yes, he can drive a phaeton and four." 

There was an individual once familiar in the 
dandy circle, whose turn-out made always a sensa- 
tion from its excessive elegance, his name was 
Pdchards, but he acquired the cognomen of " Tom 
Pipes" from the following circumstance. Having 
run through an enormous fortune, he was compelled 
to borrow money at an exorbitant interest, and a 

H 



1 1 4 Kate North. 



well-known tobacconist in Oxford Street lent him 
large sums on the condition that Pdchards should 
take one-half of the amount in tobacco pipes, 
and other such commodities, and the needy man 
was always inviting his friends to take off his hands 
a portion of this stock in trade. He of coarse, like 
all other borrowers upon post-obit bonds, became 
completely ruined, and one kind friend obtained 
for him what in those clays was a refuge of the 
destitute — a consulship. It was to Nantes he 
went ; but his pecuniary difficulties hung about 
him, and he got into scrapes, and lost his appoint- 
ment. 

Richards had one redeeming point ; he was a 
learned naturalist, and spent his little all in the 
purchase of animals. He got into trouble about a 
rare snake which he petted. Travelling in the Bath 
mail, he had placed the reptile in a basket under 
his feet ; it crawled out and glided up the petticoat 
of a lady, who, suddenly waked up with an unusual 
sensation, pressed her hand upon the visitor, and 
irritated the snake, which gave her a severe bite. 

Kate North. — In the davs when " Skittles," 
" Anonyma," and other notorious descendants of 
the Laises and Phrynes of old, are topics of con- 
versation and newspaper comment, I may be per- 
mitted to " point a moral and adorn a tale," by 
relating a remarkable episode in the life and 
adventures of the beautiful and once celebrated 
Kate North. 

Kate was the daughter of a discharged sero-eant 
of the Guards, who had the appointment of sutler 
at Chatham. Her mother dying after a long illness, 



Kate North. 115 



Kate, though young, worked hard early and late, 
and managed her father's house for a length of 
time ; and the entire garrison, from the command- 
ing officer to the private soldier, were loud in their 
praise of this incomparable young girl, whose mar- 
vellous beauty was the theme of conversation. 

Among the officers at Chatham there happened 
to be a young ensign, extremely good-looking, upon 
whom Kate's beauty made a strong impression ; he 
succeeded in captivating the affections of the 
charming and innocent girl, and at last seduced 
her. The regiment to which the ensign belonged 
having received marching orders, Kate determined 
to follow her seducer, and she marched with the 
soldiers to London. The secret of her seduction 
was not long before it got known and reached the 
ears of the Commander-in-Chief, the Duke of York ; 
who, being informed that the poor girl was in a 
state of destitution, sent an aide-de-camp to discover 
her retreat, which proved to be an unfurnished 
room in the worst part of Spitalfields. The aide- 
de-camp told her his errand, but at the same time 
bound her to secrecy. 

Early robbed of her virtue, abandoned by her 
betrayer, and an utter stranger in London, she re- 
proached herself with her sin, and in a paroxysm of 
remorse and despair, the wretched girl determined 
to poison herself. She had purchased some lauda- 
num, and was on the point of swallowing it, when a 
gentle rap at the door was heard outside. She opened 
the door, and in walked the Duke of York. His 
Koyal Highness was struck with her beauty, modest 
deportment, and the frankness with which she an- 
swered all his questions, and, on his taking leave, 



116 Kate North. 



said that he would send her a few necessaries to 
make her comfortable ; upon which the poor girl fell 
upon her knees, and, in a voice almost inarticulate 
with emotion, thanked her benefactor. 

When the Duke again called, she expressed her 
o-ratitude for all she had received, but hinted to her 
royal visitor that her earnest desire was to live an 
honourable life. The Duke was astounded, but 
said nothing in reply- He was simply dressed in 
a plain riding costume, and was, without exception, 
one of the finest men England could boast of. He 
stood above six feet ; was rather stout, but well 
proportioned ; his chest broad, and his frame mus- 
cular ; his face bore the stamp of authority, and 
every feature was handsome ; his brow was full 
and prominent, the eye grayish, beaming with 
benevolence ; and a noble forehead, with premature 
gray hairs, though the Prince was hardly in the vale 
of vears, completed the picture which presented itself 
tii the unhappy Kate. The poor girl, overawed by 
the royal presence, attempted to leave the room, but 
was prevented. Her thoughts were how to avoid 
the danger which she felt was awaiting her, if the 
Eoval Duke should persist in his assiduities. 

ilis Royal Highness, not knowing the girl's feel- 
ings, paid her frequent visits, and each succeeding day 
became more and more enamoured of her; though 
upon all occasions she evinced a desire to avoid his 
presence. The thoughts of her seducer, and the 
degrading situation in which she stood, contrasting 
with the benevolence, and apparent affection of the 
Eoyal Duke, overwhelmed her. She wept bitterly, 
and flung herself upon her bed in an agony of dis- 
tress. Her first resolution was to tell the Duke 



Kate North 1,17 



that she could not bring herself to consent to his 
proposals ; but scarcely was the resolution formed, 
when the royal visitor again made his appearance. 
He promised never to desert her ; and at length, 
overcome by his kindness and his importunities, she 
exclaimed, " If you really love me, Duke, I consent 
to be yours." The Duke was made happy ; a house, 
carriages, &c, were supplied to the fair Kate, who 
lived with him many years. As she had a love for 
reading, and a desire for knowledge, masters were 
engaged for her ; and by dint of perseverance, and 
applying herself to study, she was enabled to dis- 
sipate that weight of sorrow which would have 
otherwise hastened her death. 

One summer morning a friend of the Duke of 
York's called and told her that His Eoyal High- 
ness would be under the necessity of giving up his 
connexion with her, for he had promised the King, 
his father, that if his debts were paid, he would 
never more see the object of his affection. Poor 
Kate's heart was full ; she could not reply to the 
messenger, but bursting into tears, hid her face, and 
flew out of the room. The sting which had been 
inflicted was more than she could bear, and she was 
seized with brain fever ; but with much care and 
quiet, in course of time, the poor creature recovered 
her health and composure of mind. 

There was no woman so much admired in London 
at the time as Kate North ; her bewitching man- 
ners, the charm and grace of her conversation, 
brought to her pretty house in Green Street innu- 
merable admirers. Among those anxious to woo 
her, a noble Scotch Lord was most assiduous in his 
attentions, and he at length succeeded in prevailing 



118 Sally Brooke. 



upon her to accept the offer of his protection; she 
lived with him several years, and bore him a daugh- 
ter, who is now the wife of a baronet and the mother 
of a numerous family. But the canker in Kate's mind 
was all this while corroding her life. She visited 
Paris for change of air and scene ; but there her senses 
left her : she became raving mad, and died in a 
foreign land, without a friend to close her eyes. 

Sally Beooke. — There was a celebrated beauty 
who in my day made a conspicuous figure both in 
London and on the Continent. Miss Brooke, or as 
she was more generally called, Sally Brooke, was 
the daughter of a beneficed clergyman ; she had 
agreeable manners, her education had been highly 
finished, and she always mingled in the best men's 
circles. For some reason which never was known, 
she quitted her parents' roof and came to London, 
where she created a considerable impression ; she 
was most particularly noticed by the Prince of 
"Wales, and consequently well received by those 
who basked in princely favour. Not a word, how- 
ever, was ever breathed against her honour ; and she 
was always looked upon as a model of unimpeach- 
able veracity Her beauty was such that she be- 
came the object of general admiration, and her 
portrait was taken by the first painters of the day. 
The Hebe by Strceling, engraved by Heath, remains 
to enable the world to form some idea of the match- 
less charms of the original. Her figure was perfec- 
tion, and the sculptor would have been delighted to 
have obtained such a model. From whence she 
derived her income was always a mystery : a silly 
story was for a moment circulated that a person of 



Sally Brooke. 119 



the name of Bouverie, commonly called " The Com- 
missioner," had succeeded in captivating her ; this, 
however, soon died away. Whatever may have 
been her resources, she kept up a good establish- 
ment in Green Street, and lived always like a lady, 
but without much show. Her house was the ren- 
dezvous of the first men in London ; but to her own 
sex she was distant and reserved, never admitting 
any female to her familiarity. 

On one occasion, Miss Brooke dined at the house of 
a noble Marquis, where some of the fashionable young 
men of the day were invited to meet her ; Mr Chris- 
topher Nugent, a nephew of the celebrated Burke, was 
most assiduous in his attentions, and begged per- 
mission to pay her a visit ; the request was granted, 
and a day and an hour named. Some of the party 
present incidentally mentioned this engagement in 
the presence of the widow of a Mr Harrison, a lady 
who had access to the best circles in consequence 
of her remarkable beauty, and who had some right 
to place Mr Nugent on the list of her admirers. 
Jealous of her rival, the widow dressed herself as a 
boy, knocked at the door in Green Street, and was 
admitted into the presence of Miss Brooke, who was 
reclining on a sofa, whilst Nugent was on his knees 
before her ; the distinguished lady, finding her lover 
in such a position, rushed upon him, seized a knife, 
and plunged it into his breast, fortunately without 
inflicting a mortal wound. Whatever might have 
been expected when this fact was generally known, 
it was soon believed that love had healed the 
wounds which jealousy inflicted ; for Nugent and 
the lovely widow were soon seen walking together 
in familiar conversation in Hyde Park. 



120 Madame Grassini. 

After being the admiration of the world of fashion 
for several seasons, Sally Brooke, seeing wrinkles 
coming into her once Hebe-like face, determined 
to leave scenes where she no longer reigned as the 
queen of beauty, but found other and fresher forms 
admired, and went to Baden. There some scoun- 
drels having robbed her of all she possessed, she 
left the place, and arrived at the Hotel du Palais 
Royal at Strasburg, where she remained some years, 
" the world forgetting, by the world forgot." A 
dropsical disease ravaged her once symmetrical 
form, and she died in a land of strangers. Her 
landlord nobly defrayed the expenses of her funeral, 
although she was already much indebted to him. 
Her family, however, liquidated her debts. Her 
remains repose in the city of Strasburg, and her 
tomb is one of the memorials of human vanity. 

Madame Ghassini. — One of the curious types of 
fiftv vears ago was the celebrated singer, Madame 
Grassini. When I first met her in 1825, she still 
possessed some remains of the remarkable beauty 
which had Won for her the attention and admiration 
of so many of the great men of the age. Napoleon 
and Wellington, the Marshals of France, the Generals 
of the allied armies, English, Russians, Prussians, 
Austrians, as well as the Dukes and Marquises of 
the Restoration, had all bowed before Grassini's 
shrine, and had all been received with the same 
Italian honhomie and liberal kindness. She 
would often say, "Napoleon gave me this snuff- 
box ; he placed it in my hands one mornino- when 
I had been to see him at the Tuileries, and added, 
' Voila pour toi ; tu es mie brave fille ! ' He was 



Madame Grassini. 121 

indeed a great man, but he would not follow my 
advice. 11 aurait du s'entendre avec ce clier Vil- 
ainton. By the by, c'est ce brave Due qui m'a 
donne cette broche. II me la apporte un matin 
que j'etais encore au lit. II parlait un singulier 
baragouin, et je ne savais guere 1' Anglais ; mais 
nous nous entendions tout de meme." And so she 
would run on, with anecdotes and remarks on a 
Ions list of admirers. 

All Madame Grassini's recollections came out 
quite naturally, with true southern frankness, or 
rather cynicism ; and she narrated her liaisons 
in as unconcerned a manner before every one she 
met, as if she were speaking of her drive in the Bois 
de Boulogne. Her face must have been in her 
youth still handsomer than that of her niece, Giulia 
Grisi. The eyes were larger and more expressive, 
and she had more regular features and finer teeth. 
There was a tragic dignity in the contour and 
lineaments of her countenance, which formed a 
strange contrast with her unrefined language and 
gipsy style of dress ; every colour of the rainbow 
was represented in her garments, which were tied 
on without the smallest regard to taste, and gave 
her very much the appearance of a strolling actress 
equipped at Bagfair. 

Grassini's once fine voice had, when I saw her, 
degenerated into a sharp, loud, unmelodious soprano, 
which grated harshly on the ear. She had no 
cleverness or wit, and the bons mots that are cited 
as hers are amusing only from the cynic bon- 
homie which inspired them, as well as the strong 
Italian accent with which they were spoken. One 
of her mots in the days of the Empire is often cited. 



122 Piety of Madame Catalani. 

Napoleon had given the order of the Iron Crown to 
the famous castrato singer, Veluti, who was at that 
time all the fashion. This honour, at a period when 
decorations were given more sparingly than they 
are at present, created great discontent, especially 
amongst military men ; several of whom were com- 
plaining in no measured terms that the Lombard 
order should have been bestowed upon a mere singer, 
when Grassini interposed, with great vehemence, and 
said, " I am surprised that you soldiers should be so 
ungenerous, and not take into account sa blessure." 

I never shall forget the astonishment of Lord 

L , some thirty-five years ago, when Grassini 

laid hold of him at a party at which I was present, 
and began relating to him her adventures with his 

father, " ce cher Charles S ." " II vous res- 

semblait, Milord. II n'etait pas beau, — bien s'en 
faut ; mais il etait plus aimable que vous — il 
avait plus de grace." 

When Pasta first made her appearance, and the 
whole musical world was in an ecstasy of admira- 
tion, Grassini shrugged her shoulders, and exclaimed, 
" Ah, bah ! si vous m'aviez entendu, c'etait bien 
autre chose." 

Madame Grassini was the possessor of a large 
fortune, and died in Paris at an advanced ao-e. 

Piety of Madame Catalani. — I knew the cele- 
brated singer, Madame Catalani, when she lived in 
England. Her house was the rendezvous of many 
of the French emigres ; and as she was very rich 
and very generous, she frequently assisted those who 
were in the greatest distress. At the head of her 
profession, with the finest voice in the world, and 



Miss T- and the Perverts. 123 

the admired of all admirers, no whisper had ever 
been heard against her fair fame, and she lived in 
the utmost harmony with her husband, M. de 
Valabreque. She was a most admirable woman in 
every relation of life, and as truly pious as she was 
kind and charitable. 

An excellent friend of mine, Mr Fitzwilliam, so 
well known in Paris, informed me that as he was 
seated in the stage-box at the opera one night, when 
Madame Catalani was about to appear in one of her 
greatest parts, he observed her in the coulisse, before 
she had to come on, in an attitude of devotion, and 
evidently in earnest prayer, for the space of two or 
three minutes. When she had finished, she made 
the sign of the cross, and went on the stage, where, 
it is needless to say, she was received with un- 
bounded applause. My friend, on calling upon the 
great singer next day, told her what he had ob- 
served ; when she informed him, with a charming 
simplicity, that she never went upon the stage 
without first praying to God that He would grant 
her the favour to be enabled to sing well, and to 
meet with success ; nor did she ever fail, on retiring 
to rest, to return thanks to Him for that and all 
the other mercies vouchsafed to her. 

Miss T and the Perverts. — Dean Lockyer, 

a great favourite of George I., after a visit which 
he paid to Pome, was asked by His Majesty, in a 
jocular manner, as they sat over their bowl of 
punch, whether he had succeeded in converting the 
Pope. " No, your Majesty," replied the Dean ; " His 
Holiness has most excellent Church preferment, and 
a most desirable bishopric, and I had nothing better 



124 Rachel's Debut. 



to offer him." The same difficulties probably pre- 
vented the success of Miss T , an excellent 

young Scotch lady, who went to Rome some years 
ago with the express purpose of converting to Pres- 
byterianism the great head of the Roman Catholic 

Church. Miss T , instead of succeeding in her 

object, was herself converted, or perverted, to Ca- 
tholicism, and is at this moment superior of a con- 
vent at Edinburgh. 

"When I was last at Rome I was much disgusted 
at the absurd over-zeal of the English perverts, who 
were first and foremost in every procession, pros- 
trating themselves on the saliva-covered floor of the 
churches before the most grotesque idols or absurd 
relics, and kissing, with a display of the most ardent 
devotion, St Peter's well-worn toe, just after the 
same ceremony had been performed by some filthy 
Trasteverine reeking of garlic and covered with 
vermin. It used to be said, at the time of the 
Restoration in 1815, that many of the followers of 
Louis XVIII. were more royalistes que le vol ; and 
the same saying may be applied to our vulgar 
English perverts, who are more Popish than the 
Pope, and make themselves the laughing-stock of 
Antonelli, and the great majority of cardinals and 
abbes, who believe in nothing at all. 

Rachel's DltjUT. — When the inimitable Rachel 
first appeared at the Theatre Francais, M. Prevost, 
secretary of the theatre, and well known for his 
good taste and judgment in all theatrical matters, 
was accosted by the young debutante, begging him 
to give her a few lessons in declamation. Prevost, 
surprised at this request, replied, " Ma pauvre fille, 



Rossini. 125 



allez v'endre des bouquets." Soon after this Rachel 
appeared for the first time in " Hermione." Her 
acting electrified the audience, and on the fall of 
the curtain bouquets were thrown to her from 
nearly every box in the theatre. She modestly 
courtesied, and picked them up ; then, taking them 
to Prevost, she said, " I have followed your advice, 
and bring you the bouquets for sale." Upon which 
the secretary fell upon his knees before the great 
tragedienne, acknowledging his haste and rudeness, 
and expressing regret for having wounded the feel- 
ings of the debutante. 



o 



Rachel and Judith. — Mademoiselle Judith, 
the clever and accomplished actress of the Theatre 
Francais, was one day abusing, in no measured 
terms, her fellow-tragedienne, Mademoiselle Rachel, 

to a mutual friend, the celebrated Doctor D . 

After expatiating upon her many faults, and, above 
all, her grasping rapacity, she wound up by saying, 
" C'est une vraie Juive." The doctor, somewhat 
surprised, said, " Surely, my dear Judith, that ought 
not to be a fault in your eyes ; as you likewise 
belong to the same religious persuasion." "True," 
replied the witty actress ; " but the difference is, 
that I am a Jewess, and she is a Jew." 

This reminds me of a late saying of James Roths- 
child's, who, furious at the increasing prosperity of 
his rival, Pereire, exclaimed, with the same forget- 
fulness of their mutual nationality, " How can any- 
body transact business with such a wretched little 
Jew % " 

Rossini. — Rossini has been for some time a resi- 



126 Rossini. 



dent in Paris ; and whenever he receives, every one 
is anxious to be admitted to his soirees, where good 
music is sure to be heard, or to his dinner-table, 
where excellent macaroni is as certain to be served 
up. The master looks in perfect health, and has 
more of the Englishman than the Italian in his 
personal appearance. The photographs that are 
sold of him are perfect of their kind, and express 
the good-nature and sly humour for which he is 
remarkable. He lives a large portion of the year 
at Passy, where the Parisian municipality made him 
a present of the ground upon which he has built his 
villa in the Italian style. 

Eossini narrates, at his dinner parties, with great 
glee, some of the circumstances that occurred to him 
in London. He was made a great deal of by the 
Prince Eegent ; and on one occasion he could not 
help shewing how little pleasure he derived from 
the attempts made by His Eoyal Highness to exe- 
cute some passages, in which he totally failed owing 
to his inability to keep time : for the Eegent, though 
a great lover of music, and not a bad player on the 
violin, constantly put out the maestro, to whom he 
at last offered an apology. Eossini accepted it with 
civility, and good-naturedly said, " There are few in 
your Eoyal Highness's position who could play so 
well." 

Eossini was not aware of a law which then ex- 
isted, by which a foreigner might be imprisoned for 
debt without any warning, and merely upon the 
affidavit of a creditor affirming that the stranger was 
about to leave England. He was once arrested in 
London by a bailiff, and carried to a sponging- 
house, and though his incarceration was of short 



Rossini. 127 



duration, it gave him a disgust for a city where he 
had otherwise been well received. 

Eossim does not go as often to the opera as might 
be expected, preferring the agreeable society of a few 
friends. He has also a strong objection to go out to 
parties ; even the Emperor's invitations have no 
weight with him, and he has frequently begged to be 
excused. Eossini is an enemy to modern innovations, 
and has never yet trusted himself to the railroad. 
No inducement could be found sufficiently strong 
for him to travel otherwise than in a coach drawn 
by horses, and that at so moderate a speed, that a 
week was occupied by him in his journey from Paris 
to Baden. 

Madame Colbrand, the 'prima donna at Naples 
when Eossini commenced his career as a composer, 
exercised considerable influence on the success of 
his earliest operas. They were written expressly 
for her, at a period when the heyday of her youth 
was gone by, she having long been an acknowledged 
favourite both with the manager and King Ferdi- 
nand. "When "Elisabetta" was produced in 1 8 1 5 by 
the young maestro, Madame Colbrand retained all 
the beauty of her voice, which, added to her physical 
advantages and a commanding figure, fine features, 
and dignified bearing, called forth a shout of ap- 
plause as she appeared on the stage of San Carlo, in 
the character of the English queen. The duet with 
Leicester secured the success of this the first opera 
that Eossini had produced at Naples, and others which 
followed in quick succession were received with the 
enthusiastic admiration they so fully merited. 

But it was reserved for that unrivalled artiste, 
Madame Pasta, to come up to the full exigencies of 



128 Pio Nemo's Flight to Gaeta. 



Eossini's musical genius. Her appearance at Her 
Majesty's Theatre electrified the house ; and none 
who are old enough to remember the great Diva, 
can forget the wonderful pathos and power of that 
rich-toned thrilling voice, whose somewhat husky- 
notes seemed to deepen the effect of her singing 
upon the hearts of her auditors. 

To descend from grave to gay, I remember hear- 
ing; one of her ardent admirers at that time, when 
Pasta, having just come off the stage, was refresh- 
ing herself, asking her, in his most romantic tones, 
"Signora, prendete limonata o sorbetto V "No," 
answered the great singer in her deep voice ; 
" prendo 'af-an'-af [half-and-half] adesso." 

Pio Nono's Flight to Gaeta. — All who are per- 
sonally acquainted with Pope Pius IX. are aware 
that he is a man of extremely benevolent disposi- 
tion, naturally liberal in his political views, and 
desirous of promoting the welfare and happiness of 
mankind. Political events in 1847-48, were singu- 
larly calculated to bring out the peculiar character- 
istics of a sovereign Pontiff who was called upon to 
exercise his temporal power in an exceptional period 
of modern Italian history. Pius IX. believed that 
it was not incompatible with the attributes of the 
Papacy, to participate in that great liberal move- 
ment which shook so many thrones in the year 
1848. The College of Cardinals, and especially the 
conspicuous members of the order of the Jesuits, 
became alarmed at the Pontiff's liberal ideas. 
Knowing well his character, and observing the 
progress of that overwhelming tide of popular 
opinion which was sweeping sovereigns from their 



Pio Non&s Flight to Gaeta. 129 



thrones, and shaking the very foundations of govern- 
ment, they did not at first openly oppose the 
Pontiff's views, but gradually and insidiously set 
about creating alarm in his mind, and above all, 
sought to awaken doubts in the conscience of " the 
Vicar of Christ." They calculated, and correctly, 
that if they could not deter him from bestowing 
mundane and political benefits on the Eoman 
people, they could at least make him believe that 
in doing so he was betraying the interests and 
influences of the Catholic Church, and they suc- 
ceeded in arousing a tempest of indignation and 
alarm in the mind of Pio Nono, until he felt it 
his duty to take to flight, more in the cause of the 
Eoman Catholic Church than from fears concern- 
ing personal safety. 

The golden tints of an Italian sunset had faded 
into that brief twilight which heralds darkness, 
when a female, dressed in humble attire, was ad- 
mitted to the garden of the Vatican by a gentle- 
man in the confidence of the Pope. Neither of the 
persons spoke as they made their way to a portion 
of the palace not generally inhabited. On arriving 
at the foot of a dark and narrow staircase, the 
gentleman took from his pocket one of those little 
knots of twisted wax-taper which the Italians carry 
about with them, and lighted it ; then, without 
uttering a word, he beckoned the lady to follow 
him, and proceeded up the narrow stone staircase, 
which, after many windings, led to a door, on which 
three raps were given by the mysterious guide. 
Almost immediately the door was opened by Pio 
Nono himself, and the guide, making way for the 
lady, retired. This was Madame Dodwell, to whom 

i 



130 Pio Nono's Flight to Gaeta. 



I alluded in my second volume as one of the most 
beautiful women of her time ; she was the widow 
of an Englishman, though a Koman by _ birth, and 
married en secondes noces to the Bavarian minis- 
ter, and she had come to the Vatican in order to 
arrange the clandestine flight of the Pontiff from 
Koine. 

His Holiness appeared to have lost all presence 
of mind, and trembled as he took the lady by the 
hand, and gazing earnestly on her still beautiful 
face, said, " I look to you, madam, for arranging all 
details. I have the utmost confidence in your dis- 
cretion, and I know the firmness of your character." 
The lady replied, " Has any plan of escape sug- 
gested itself to your Holiness'?" "Yes," said the 
Pontiff in a low voice ; " I think the best thing I 
can do is to put on the gown of an ordinary priest, 
and at daybreak to-morrow morning walk out of 
the gates which conduct to the Fondi road. You, 
madam, in your carriage, will have preceded me, 
and, waiting at a convenient distance, you will 
take me up. I have made arrangements with my 
good and faithful friend, Ferdinand, King of Naples, 
for a safe retreat at Gaeta ; and I have no doubt 
that you, with your passport as Ambassadress of 
Bavaria, can pass the customs authorities with little 
or no difficulty" " Holy father," replied the lady, 
pressing the Pontiff's hand, "the scheme seems to 
me in every way satisfactory. I shall brino- with 
me a confidential servant, a clever coachman, will- 
ing to brave any danger." The Pope rose, and 
bestowing his blessing on the lady, ushered her to 
the door, adding, " I retire to pass the nio-ht in 
prayer." " I shall be one mile from the gate on 



Pio Nono's Flight to Gaeta. 131 

the Fondi road," said the lady in a whisper, "by 
four o'clock to-morrow morning." 

At that hour a carriage might have been seen in 
a bend of the road which leads to Naples. On the 
box-seat beside the coachman sat a female, dressed 
as a domestic servant, who "anxiously gazed around 
while waiting the arrival of the Pope. She did not 
wait long before she beheld approaching a thick-set 
and somewhat corpulent priest, who advanced to- 
wards the carriage with a rapid step, and covered 
with dust. In a few minutes Pio Nono was seated 
in the carriage with the ambassadress, and the 
horses were whipped into a gallop, and did not 
halt until they reached the small customhouse of 
Fondi. 

It was now ten o'clock, and they were immedi- 
ately surrounded by the customhouse officers, who 
demanded their passports. The chief official, look- 
ing into the carriage, observed, " I do not find on 
your passport the name of the priest who accom- 
panies your excellency." " Oh," replied the lady, 
"he is only my confessor." Unfortunately, the 
priest shewed signs of uneasiness and alarm, which 
excited the suspicion of the officer, w T ho said, 
" In these times our orders are very strict, and 
I cannot permit the padre, confessore to pass. T 
must beg him to descend, and shall be obliged to 
detain him until I get permission from Kome for 
his release." The Pope, hearing this, was in a great 
state of excitement ; he caught hold of the man's 
hand, and whispered in his ear, " Caro amico, you 
don't know who I am,— I am your sovereign and 
father, Pius IX." Whereupon the officer turned 
round to a little group of persons who had collected. 



132 Sudden Turns of Fortune in France. 

and exclaimed, " Per Baccho, here is a fellow who 
calls himself our Pope!" The crowd peered into 
the carriage, and indulged in a volley of ribaldry, 
evidently not believing in the identity of the sove- 
reign Pontiff. Matters were becoming serious, when 
the Pope placed a bag of gold coin in the hands 
of the officials, whilst the ambassadress threw hand- 
fuls of scudi to the mob. A loud cheer was raised 
by all present, and in a few minutes the carriage 
was going at full speed, without fear of pursuit, on 
the road to Gaeta. 

Sudden Turns of Fortune in France. — I have 
seen some of those marvellous changes in France 
which have made all Europe wonder. Kings, states- 
men, financiers, marshals, ambassadors, and ministers 
of state, have risen up and faded away before my 
eyes. An empire, an army, a city, have risen from 
the old foundations, through the debris of a revolu- 
tionary government. How long the present state of 
things is to last, no human foresight can tell. A coup 
d'etat has once succeeded ; why may not another % 
One army has left its much-loved sovereign ; why 
not another ? Every one believed that Charles X. 
was popular with the army; the Gardes du Corps and 
the Garde Eoyale seemed ready to lay down their 
lives in his defence; and only a few days before the 
revolution of July, no one had the slightest doubt 
that every soldier was prepared to do his duty 
whenever called upon. Yet how few accompanied 
the fallen monarch on his way to embarkation for 
a foreign land. 

Men who are now playing an active part in life, 
and occupying a great position, I have known in 



Sudden Turns of Fortune in France. 133 

very different circumstances, apparently not possess- 
ing the means of elevating themselves to a higher 
grade in society. For instance, one of the great men 
near the Emperor was, prior to the revolution, ob- 
liged to have recourse to the editorship of a journal, 
Le Messager du Soir, in conjunction with his friend 
Monsieur Brindeau, a person employed at the 
Bourse. A late French ambassador, whose name has 
so lately been before the public in connexion with 
the march of affairs in Italy, filled a very humble 
position when I was first made known to him ; he 
was then only a clerk at a small bank in the Eue 
Lafitte, kept by Messrs Orr & Goldsmith, which, 
with many others in Paris, has vanished. My 
friend married a daughter of a rich London distiller. 

The last revolution, no doubt, brought down 
some substantial houses, as it cleared away some 

of doubtful character. Messrs & 

retired upon that occasion ; but they have, how- 
ever, again commenced separately. The railroad 
to Boulogne was under the auspices of that firm; 
but it has now become a part of the Great North- 
ern line. The Rouen Eailway also aided Messrs 

& in regaining their lost money, though 

many of the original subscribers were unfortunately 
ruined ; and the separation of the two partners of 
the firm appears to have been attended with good 
results to both, judging from the external appear- 
ance of wealth exhibited in their magnificent hotels, 
their splendid equipages, their powdered lackeys, 
and their luxurious style of living. 

True, the most solid and established houses do 
not follow the example set by some of the moneyed 
gentry. Few establishments maintain such a high 



134 Sudden Turns of Fortune in France. 



reputation as the old and respected firm of Mallet, 
whose name is associated with worth, economy, and 
good sense, and where everything is straightforward 
and honourable. They have no box at the Grand 
Opera, or at the Italiens, for their families, who do 
not seek, by gorgeous promenades in the Bois de 
Boulogne, to dazzle the eyes of the poor, and outvie 
the demi mondc in insolence and extravagance ; 
creating envy and dissatisfaction in those who may 
have suffered from the failure of other establish- 
ments. Indeed some of the financiers of the day 
have been of great public service, and their honoured 
names are not to be associated with those who have 
played a game disreputable to themselves, and 
injurious to their fellow-citizens. 

Messrs Bothschild and Pereire — who may not 
like to see their names in the same paragraph, as it 
is generally believed that they are by no means on 
gnod terms with each other — are amongst the lead- 
ing moneyed men of the day, and both of them have 
been of service to the state. The Rothschilds have 
the credit of being very liberal to those who require 
their aid, although by no- means allowing themselves 
to be imposed upon by the solicitations of the idle 
and dissolute. Many acts of kindness are related 
<if them; and they are known to be generous in 
their hospitality, and charitable to the stranger. 
M. Pereire, who was once a clerk in the house of 
Rothschild, has made a rapid fortune, and has ac- 
quired a high reputation as a financier, by founding 
that successful institution, "The Credit Mobilier ;" 
and he has many warm friends, who speak hio-hly of 
his liberality and disinterestedness. He has built a 
splendid hotel near the British Embassy, and fur- 



Parisian Cochieydom. 135 

nished it with artistic taste, and there he receives 
his friends with splendid hospitality . 

Pamsian Cockneydom. — Although I entertain a 
high opinion of the Parisians and Frenchmen gener- 
ally, I believe that there is no human being more 
thoroughly ignorant and conceited than the un- 
educated Parisian Cockney or badaud. Of other 
countries he has scarcely any knowledge ; and he is 
firmly convinced that the French are the masters of 
the world, and that no people on the face of the 
earth can enter into competition with them in war, 
literature, arts, or science : perfection is only to be 
found in his native land. He turns up his nose 
contemptuously at everything English ; all his no- 
tions of England being derived from the low theatres 
on the Boulevards, where British, Kussian, Austrian, 
and Prussian soldiers are invariably put hors de 
combat by the French. He is very fond of talking 
of an invasion of the " Little Island," and fully be- 
lieves that sooner or later a Zouave will be " Duke 
of London," and some employe, of the French Go- 
vernment, " Prefect of the Thames." He is firmly 
convinced that the English visitors come to Paris 
only to be astonished at the magnificent edifices of 
the city, to gaze at the Louvre and the beautiful 
monuments; though the great attraction to them is, 
in his opinion, the good dinners that are to be eaten 
in Paris, for he thinks that there is nothing in Lon- 
don to tempt the appetite but half-raw beef. As for 
fresh vegetables, sauce for fish, and good pastry, 
nothing of the sort is to be obtained there, and a 
French beggar would disdain to partake of the 
meals which the ravenous Londoner, devours. But 



136 Parisian Cochneydom. 



when John Bull comes to Paris, the beautiful metro- 
polis of France,— of Europe,— he finds apartments 
to lodge in superior even to those which the Queen 
occupies at Buckingham Palace or Windsor Castle, 
at a moderate price, while his table is served with 
a luxury nowhere else to be found. 

Louis Philippe committed a great mistake, and 
caused much mischief, by his patronage of the 
bourgeoisie, who not only introduced vulgar man- 
ners, but conducted themselves with great inso- 
lence ; aping, as far as they could, the style of 
persons of good blood and high rank and station. 
Unfortunately, the revolution of 1830 had over- 
thrown the fortunes of one half of the aristocratic 
families, who were consequently compelled to shut 
up their hotels, discharge their servants, and retire 
from the world. Since that period the domestics 
have imitated their masters in their follies, and 
flaunt themselves in silk dresses and expensive bon- 
nets, instead of the pretty muslin caps and modest 
dimity gowns which formerly became the bonnes 
and cook-maids. Wages necessarily became doubled; 
nay, even tripled ; the tradesmen connived with the 
servants to plunder the family, and extravagance 
became the order of the day. Paris has rapidly in- 
creased in size, and the idle and dissolute have con- 
sequently congregated in this overgrown city. But, 
alas ! it also became the rendezvous of all the mis- 
creants that other great cities have expelled : here 
are to be found the liberated convict and the de- 
praved harlot, rioting in luxury, and offending the 
eyes of modesty and rectitude. It is calculated 
that the j)opulation now exceeds 1,500,000 souls 
and to preserve order, and give security to the 



Parisian Cockneydorn. 137 

honest portion of the inhabitants, it is necessary 
that 40,000 police should be kept in constant em- 
ployment. 

I cannot refrain from alluding also to the extor- 
tionate prices which, I regret to say, my fellow- 
countrymen are compelled to pay for every article 
they require. There is a league amongst the shop- 
keepers, the proprietors of hotels, the restaurateurs, 
and even the humble porter whose occupation it 
is to stand at the corner of the street; they have 
one common interest, which is to extract from the 
pockets of John Bull whatever money they can 
extort from him on any pretext. 

The large and magnificent shops in the Eue de 
la Paix, in the Rue Castigleone, in the Faubourg St 
Honore, and the Eue de Eivoli, are sources of im- 
mense wealth ; and it is a well-known fact that, in 
the course of six years, tradesmen who occupy them 
accumulate large fortunes, and are enabled to retire 
from business. Should a war occur between France 
and England, all those splendid establishments 
would be closed ; for it is chiefly on the money 
spent by foreigners, and more especially by the 
English, that Paris tradesmen subsist. If the 
Duchesse d'Abrantes, whose Memoirs were so uni- 
versally read during the Restoration, had been alive 
at the present time, she would have been horrified 
at the marvellous change for the worse that has 
taken place. The Duchess, who was evidently a per- 
son of enlarged mind, and fully alive to the iniquities 
of this wicked world, says in one of her volumes 
that there is not a more industrious class of per- 
sons than the artisans of Paris, who toil eighteen 
hours out of the twenty-four, and carry to the 



138 Parisian Cockneydom. 

shopkeeper the produce of their labour ; and, by 
dint of coaxing and entreaty, induce him to give 
enough to keep their body and soul together ; im- 
mediately after, the extortionate shopkeeper ob- 
tains from some of his customers a price equal 
to a profit of five hundred per cent. This sys- 
tem prevails in every department ; the industri- 
ous peasant who brings to the market the produce 
of his garden, is compelled by the municipal au- 
thorities to sell at the Halle, (the great market,) 
before seven in the morning, whatever he has 
brought. If he does not find customers, he is 
quickly surrounded by innumerable harpies, who 
induce the hard-working labourer to sell to them 
his vegetables and fruit at less than half their 
value. These harpies are themselves small vendors 
of these articles, and I do not hesitate to affirm that 
they realise a profit of four hundred per cent, on 
their bargains. Then the wine-merchant, who pur- 
chases his wines at Bordeaux or Macon, or the bor- 
ders of the Ehone, generally receives a genuine 
and pure produce of the grape ; but when this wine 
is brought to market in Paris, it has marvellously 
increased in bulk, for every cask of real wine is, by 
the aid of water and logwood, converted into three, 
and sold as genuine wine. 

A celebrated surgeon, a resident of the Faubourg 
St Germain, related to me the following fact. He 
accepted an invitation to dine at the house of a 
well-known nobleman, distinguished in the fashion- 
able world. The dinner was all that the most deli- 
cate taste could offer ; the cuisine was inimitable, 
the wines of the choicest cru, the dessert rich and 
tempting. Several of the plats left the table un- 



Parisian Cockneydom. 139 



touched ; the doctor observed that pine apples and 
grapes were abundant, and that so plentiful was 
the supply, that many plates were taken from the 
table exactly as they were placed upon it. The 
dinner being over, the gentlemen and ladies retired 
to the salon, and they had scarcely entered it, 
when a relation of the Amphitryon's unexpectedly 
arrived, after a long journey, from the provinces. 
He was received with the utmost cordiality by the 
family, and was naturally asked if he had dined ; 
on his reply in the negative, that in fact he had 
tasted nothing since he left Lyons, the bell was 
rung, and the servant ordered to prepare something 
for the hungry traveller. The servant shortly re- 
turned to the salon, and, to the inexpressible aston- 
ishment of every one present, said that the inaitre 
d'hdtel had desired him to say that there was no- 
thing left ; on the maitre d'hdtel being questioned, 
he confirmed the statement of the domestic, where- 
upon he immediately received from his indignant 
master orders to quit his service in twelve hours. 
On receiving his ill-gained wages, the man acknow- 
ledged that he had disposed of the dinner amongst 
his fellow-servants, as he considered that every 
article became his property, with the exception of 
the dessert, which belonged to Chevet of the Palais 
Eoyal, who farmed out the fruit and sweets that 
composed it at a certain sum per dinner. 

The porters, or, as they now denominate them- 
selves, the concierges, are perhaps the worst species 
of servants that ever infested a domestic establish- 
ment. They are inadequately paid by the pro- 
prietor, and consequently prey upon those who have 
the misfortune of living under their surveillance. 



140 Improvements in Paris. 

In fact they are rogues and thieves in disguise : 
they compel the tradesmen who serve those who 
live in the house to pay five per cent, for every 
article that enters ; wine, wood, coal, and indeed 
almost every article, is subject to this abominable 
mode of levying contributions from the residents. 

Improvements in Paris. — Paris has within four 
or five years undergone marvellous changes, which 
reflect the highest honour on those who have 
contributed to its splendour at the present time. 
The melancholy, gloomy, miserable portion of the 
city might be very charming to the artist and 
archaeologist, who admired mediaeval pointed roofs, 
fantastic domes, labyrinths of galleries, and windows 
that seemed as if not intended to admit the air or 
the sunlight ; whilst liquid mud and filthy streams 
sluggishly meandered through the dark and narrow 
streets and passages, from which the frightened 
foreigner could scarcely extricate himself. A beau- 
tiful, fairy -like city has replaced the crowded heaps 
of dingy, dark dwellings ; the blind alleys and the 
fetid courts have been exchanged for lofty and ele- 
gant mansions, wide and well-paved thoroughfares, 
and spacious open places. A writer of antiquity deno- 
minated Paris Leukotokia, the white city. Well now 
does it merit that name. All that was may have 
been picturesque; but all that is must be pronounced 
delightful. We may have lost the identical spot 
where the body of Admiral Coligny fell on St Bar- 
tholomew's day ; we may inquire after the street 
through which passed the carriage where sat the 
good and glorious Henri of Navarre, when he was 
assassinated by Eavaillac ; the narrow street has 



Improvements in Paris. 141 



also disappeared where the assassins lurked with an 
infernal machine to blow up the First Consul. But 
upon sites once covered with cemeteries, with sewers, 
with pits, and with abominations indescribable, have 
arisen verdant lawns, squares, and gardens, where, 
at the vernal season, flowers charm the eye and 
gratify the sense, while sparkling fountains pour 
forth their cool streams ; spaces where the sun and 
air give life and animation to all around ; man- 
sions where domestic or polished society can enjoy 
all the luxuries and comforts which art and taste 
have introduced. 

This transformation has been effected at an enor- 
mous expense, by skilful architects and sculptors, 
under the control of one great sovereign ; it has 
been the result of unremitting energy on the part 
of those who planned the improvements, and the 
indomitable toil of those who carried them out. 
It was indeed a sight worthy this engineering age, 
to see the thousand workmen congregated upon 
various spots, the tram-roads, and trains of horses 
and waggons bearing enormous weights of stone 
from the neighbouring quarries, the crumbling 
houses marked for destruction, and the deep founda- 
tions dug for new Boulevards on both banks of the 
Seine, the delight of Paris. Palaces have sprung 
up, which may give historic recollections to future 
generations quite as interesting as those we have 
received from the Tour de Nesle, where a queen 
carried on her licentious intrigues ; or as the Hotel 
de Sens, and the Hotel des Tournelles, the resi- 
dence of princes, where bravoes issued forth to 
murder, and in whose dungeons languished the good 
and the brave, as well as the criminal ; or the 



142 Improvements in Paris. 

convents of the Cordeliers, the Benedictines, and 
the thousand lazy monks of the olden time. One 
of the most glorious achievements of the present 
reign has been the completion of that magnificent 
edifice, the Louvre. Its saloons, lined with trea- 
sures of fine art, were the glory of France ; but a 
large portion of this vast structure, only a very 
'i-short time ago, wore a most ignoble aspect : columns, 
with rich capitals, were at their base disfigured by 
all that was filthy and disgusting. The square that 
had displayed the talents of Jean Goujon, and of 
Perrault, — where Catherine de Medicis and her sons, 
where Henry IV and Margot, gazed from the 
windows, — adjoined stalls where squalid people 
offered for sale dogs, birds, the sweepings of bric-a- 
brac shops ; spots infested by the lazzaroni of Paris, 
thieves, and courtesans. A more painful contrast of 
luxury and misery never disfigured the most attrac- 
tive part of a luxurious city. Napoleon I., in the 
plenitude of his power, and Louis Philippe, with all 
the bourgeoisie of Paris to back him, could not drive 
away the human vermin that infested the place ; 
nor did they add a single stone to improve this chef 
d'ceuvre of architecture. At length, to the immortal 
honour of the Emperor Napoleon III., the work has 
been accomplished, and the Louvre is now a palace 
worthy of the chefs d'oeuvres of art, which enrich 
its interior. Indeed, the inauguration of the Louvre 
is an era in the annals of Paris. 

The cleansing, draining, and lighting of the streets 
have also been admirably carried out ; and the fa- 
mous city of Paris now appears with renovated grace 
and beauty, and decorated with a thousand orna- 
ments, which attract the eyes of the Avhole world. 



French Criminal Jurisprudence. 143 

There has been another immense improvement : the 
groves of the Bois de Boulogne, formerly the rendez- 
vous of duellists, footpads, and gipsies, have been 
transformed as if by the hand of an enchanter, and 
flowers and foliage, velvet turf, cascades, and wind- 
ing streams combine to delight the senses and in- 
vigorate the health of the promenaders. Here lovers, 
idlers, poets, the humble and the wealthy, lounge 
their hours away amid joyous scenes, where art and 
skill have successfully combined the varied charms 
of nature. 

French Criminal Jurisprudence. — A trial for 
a criminal offence is one of the most remarkable 
scenes that France affords. In every respect it 
essentially differs from what occurs in England, and 
produces a sensation of disgust amongst those who 
have witnessed an offender arraigned in the British 
Isles. A feeling of sympathy is there entertained 
for the prisoner at the bar, whom the law assumes 
to be innocent until he is proved guilty. Seldom is 
any emotion exhibited, or if there be any, it is 
mostly in favour of the prisoner. Far different is 
the case in a French court of justice. An unfortu- 
nate being seems to be set up to be mentally tor- 
tured ; every effort is made by the judge and by the 
'procureur-general to convict him out of his own 
mouth ; he is cross-questioned, brow-beaten, and 
every device is employed to entrap him into a con- 
fession. He has most probably been confined for 
months previously on suspicion, and during that 
time has been cross-examined, entreated, and per- 
suaded by a juge d 'instruction to acknowledge 
himself guilty. Enfeebled in body by long confine- 



144 French Criminal Jurisprudence. 

ment, and harassed in mind, he is called upon, before 
an excitable auditory, to combat with highly-edu- 
cated legal opponents, who watch with unwearied 
vigilance every change of countenance, every expres- 
sion of emotion, listen with eager anxiety to any 
faltering of the voice or hesitation of speech, and 
seem to rejoice if, by accumulation of evidence, 
they can fix upon him the stigma of crime. He 
has no protection from either judge, jury, or prose- 
cutors ; he is interrogated, not with a view of 
ascertaining the truth, much less of proving inno- 
cence, but in order to prove him guilty. The 
spectators, in a state of excitement, watching with 
eager curiosity every phase of the scene acting 
before them, do not disguise their emotions ; com- 
passion, horror, disgust, vengeance, and other passions 
are awakened and expressed openly, often with the 
purpose of producing an effect upon the judge and 
jury- 

The criminal process in France will probably be 
somewhat improved, and imprisonment before trial 
will then be no longer enforced ; for the highest 
legal authorities are occupied with the endeavour 
to alleviate some of the worst features of French 
criminal trials : indeed it is generally understood 
that the Emperor will soon sign a decree prepared 
by the Minister of Justice, which will modify the 
existing practice, and that the system of finding 
bail, which has so long existed in England, will be 
substituted for preliminary imprisonment. 

The banker Mires was long confined in prison 
before trial, and afterwards his innocence was estab- 
lished by a jury. In a recent notorious trial, where 
a rich landed proprietor at Marseilles was accused 



French Criminal Jurisprudence. 145 



of attempting to murder his servant, the accused 
suffered eight months' imprisonment before lie was 
brought to trial, and then was pronounced not 
guilty ; but he had no redress for this long and 
painful incarceration. The eminent men now at 
the French bar are for the most part anxious for 
an amelioration of this and other defects in the 
Code Napoleon. 

Some of the leading advocates take an active part 
in politics, and for the most part belong to the 
Liberal party. M. de Berryer, however, one of the 
most eloquent men of the day, and who defended 
Prince Louis Napoleon after the memorable affair 
at Boulogne, is an acknowledged and stanch 
Eoyalist; he supports the claims of the Comte de- 
Chambord, who very wisely says, " I will come to 
you, if you want me, and send for me ; but other- 
wise, I intend remaining quietly at Frohsdorff. A 
crown has no great charms for me ; and if I put yours 
upon my head, Frenchmen may some time or other 
wish to take it off, and very possibly my head at 
the same time." What the politics of M. Dupin 
may be, now or hereafter, nobody can well guess. 
He was once a stanch Orleanist, then a confirmed 
Eepublican, and is now a lukewarm Napoleon ist. 
M. Marie, an accomplished orator, remains a Re- 
publican : he became a member of the Provisional 
Government, but was somewhat timid , always fear- 
ing some excess upon the part of the people. M. 
Cremieux, one of the ugliest little men that France 
can boast of, seems to have retired from political 
life : energetic, even violent in action when speak- 
ing, he is a sound lawyer and an able advocate. 

M. Jules Favre is a great favourite ; an acute 

K 



146 French Criminal Jurisprudence. 

and intellectual pleader, he is employed by all 
parties ; but liis ultra-liberal views are not always 
relished. He is a fluent speaker, and has the tact 
of making juries attentive to him; for he has a 
plain, straightforward manner of speaking, and his 
language is pure and correct. None of the first men 
at the bar at the present day have been remark- 
able for literary success ; in fact it would appear 
that literary pursuits are considered almost incom- 
patible with legal distinction. There is an English- 
man, a Mr Jones, practising with some success at 
the French bar. But there is a striking difference in 
many points from the practice of the law of Eng- 
land, which renders any approximation of the courts 
of the two countries quite out of the question. 

There is an idea in France that French literature 
is predominant throughout the whole of Europe ; 
and it is the firm belief of the mass of the French 
people that their authors of the present day take pre- 
cedence over all others. Undoubtedly French dramas 
and novels have lately found favour in England : Vic- 
tor Hugo, Alexandre Dumas, Madame George Sand, 
have found translators of their more striking ro- 
mances ; but their historians, philosophers, and 
moralists are much less known and esteemed abroad 
than those of Germany ; indeed, the German lan- 
guage is beginning to be studied by thinking men 
and women with much more assiduity than the 
French. French plays, adapted to the English 
stage, have of late years been more popular in 
England than the Shakspearean drama ; but literary 
revolutions are of such frequent and rapid occur- 
rence, that the caprice of to-day may be forgotten 
to-morrow. Dramas of political intrigues are now 



The Paris Insurrection q/'1848. Ii7 

the order of the day in Paris ; will they be trans- 
ferred to the London boards % 

Every one in France is looking to the effect that 
will be produced by free trade in dramatic literature ; 
importations from England will probably be more- 
frequent, as the censorship has generally exerted its 
influence to prevent the stage offering a representa- 
tion of the manners and customs of the British, and 
has weighed heavily upon authors and managers. 
Freed from the tyranny that has confined the human 
mind to a certain class of ideas, new dramatists will 
arise, and we shall have fresh subjects brought on the 
French stage ; genuine comedy may then assert her 
powers of depicting "the living manners as they rise." 

The Paris Insurrection of 1848. — No one, who 
now for the first time visits Paris, can comprehend 
how such a magnificent city could be converted into 
a strong fortress, with impediments to the action of 
the military on every side. The magnificent, broad, 
and well-macadamised streets, through which suc- 
cessive regiments and parks of artillery can move 
without dread of molestation, seem little adapted 
for emeutes and barricades. But far different was 
the aspect a few years since. Narrow, close, con- 
fined streets, paved with Irage stones, were alone 
to be seen; and there were quarters of the town 
inhabited by a desperate and poor population, 
in a state of squalid misery, and ever ready to fly 
to arms and raise barricades at the summons of a 
few political fanatics. "When an opposition to the 
existing government was decided upon by a few 
active demagogues, there poured forth, from dens of 
darkness and abodes of filth, a mass of people who 



148 The Paris Insurrection q/*1848. 

at other periods scarcely ever saw daylight, and who 
wildly expected to lessen their sufferings and im- 
prove their condition by acts of violence. No one 
had attempted to ameliorate their condition ; it was 
not dreamt that, by the judicious expenditure 0/ 
money, these people might be made good citizens, 
and enabled to throw off the yoke of crime and 
misery Yet, in a few short years, a marvellous 
change has come over the spirit of the " dangerous 
classes." The spots where they congregated are 
covered with lofty mansions, and the former inhabi- 
tants have migrated to less densely-populated dis- 
tricts, and are able to obtain honest employment. 
The Faubourg St Antoine, the Barriere du Tr6ne, 
and the environs are no longer under the control of 
two or three fiery demagogues, but have become 
the quiet habitations of a class that has learnt to 
respect itself. 

When, in former days, an emeute was decided 
upon, it was the result of much previous delibera- 
tion by the leading members of secret clubs, who 
planned a strategic movement, which they induced 
a number of ill-fed, ill-conditioned, discontented, 
and reckless men to carry out. Their object was to 
impede the march of troops, by the erection of bar- 
ricades ; to take possession of the neighbouring 
houses, and from the windows hurl missiles of 
every description upon their opponents. From the 
Batignolles in the north, from St Antoine in the 
east, and from the Quartier Latin in the south, there 
simultaneously poured forth hosts of the humbler 
class ; their great object being to meet near the Hotel 
de Ville, and, gaining possession of it, to form a pro- 
visional government, and issue thence proclamations. 



The Paris Insurrection of 1848. 149 

In 1848, Louis Philippe's government succumbed 
to the manoeuvres of the insurgents ; but when, 
at a later period, General Cavaignac made up his 
mind to support the Legislative Assembly, the 
tables were turned. The battle, however, was most 
sanguinary — the resistance desperate. In a few 
hours rose up, as if by the labour of Cyclopean s, 
masses of stone gathered from the paved streets, 
which seemed to defy all attempts to overthrow 
them ; and behind these barricades stood resolute 
and excited men, armed with every species of offen- 
sive weapon, vociferating defiance and contempt of 
those who attempted to dislodge them; while every 
house in the neighbourhood became an arsenal of 
deadly missiles. The insurgents would have gained 
the victory had their opponents not sprung from 
their own ranks ; for the soldiery were little inclined 
to act. But the National Guard, upon whom rested 
almost the whole of the encounter, had fortunately 
been recruited by many of the very men who had 
joined the insurrection in the previous February 
Lamartine and his colleagues had, with great pru- 
dence, and more judgment than they usually ex- 
hibited, enlisted, in some regiments to which they 
gave the name of ' : La Garde Mobile," all the idle 
youno' men and gamins of Paris who had taken up 
arms on the former occasion. Animated by a love 
of the service they had so lately joined, and con- 
trolled by military discipline, they forgot that they 
were firing upon their friends and relations ; and, 
being boldly led on, they executed their task with 
devotion and courage. Dreadful was the carnage 
and devastation : the next day the Faubourg St 
Antoine and the neighbourhood of the Bastille 



150 French Statesmen and Journalists. 

presented the appearance of a city taken by 
storm. 

General Cavaignac had not been sparing in his 
chastisement of the people, and a vivid recollec- 
tion of the punishment he had inflicted was long 
preserved. But no beneficial results followed this 
terrible battle ; for the Legislative Assembly were 
satisfied with having thus made an example of the 
misguided, and strengthened their own power. 
With the usual heedlessness of the Parisians, the 
whole affair was nearly forgotten in a few weeks, and 
the lives that had been lost were scarcely thought of. 
Eleven generals had been either killed or wounded, 
and the slaughter had been tremendous ; but it pro- 
duced no permanent effect : no effort was made to 
prevent future risings. Bed-republicanism, it is true, 
had received a severe blow ; but nothing was done to 
alleviate the sufferings, or enlighten the understand- 
ings of the people ; nor was the good feeling of 
the nation appealed to. Indeed, excepting in two or 
three of the soi-disant Liberal journals, no narrative 
of the fatal events was published ; for a great strug- 
gle for power was then going on amongst the differ- 
ent parties. Legitimists, Orleanists, and Liberals 
were only occupied in calculating their strength in 
the Chamber ; and aspiring individuals indulged in 
hopes that the party to which they looked for their 
own advancement would triumph. 

French Statesmen and Jouenalists in 1851. — 
Ever since my first visit to Paris in 1815, there has 
been political agitation in France ; unfortunately not 
that of statesmen, but that of ambitious men, each 
one anxious to fill the highest office in the state, for 



M. Guizot. 151 



which every one here thinks he has sufficient capa- 
city- The doctrine that the humblest may rise to 
the highest rank is well adapted for the army, 
where personal courage is of the first importance ; 
but in the state, where success depends upon in- 
tellect, such a notion is not only fallacious, but 
fatal. Under the reign of Louis Philippe, any one 
who could write a decent leading article in a news- 
paper immediately fancied himself versed in state 
policy, and felt persuaded that he had nothing to 
do but fly at high game in order to gratify his 
ambition. The success of M. Guizot and M. Thiers 
seemed a sufficient guarantee for the access to 
power of innumerable petty scribblers, who had 
neither the wisdom of the doctrinaire nor the 
eloquence of the historian. 

M. Guizot. — M. Guizot, when he commenced his 
lectures on public history at the Sorbonne, appeared 
like a luminous meteor on the political horizon. The 
expression of his views of ancient literature, the 
energy and the dignity with which he explained to 
his admiring audience the philosophy and the re- 
ligion of Rome and Greece, his ironical comparison 
of the present claimants to renown, were listened to 
with an enthusiasm which proved how thoroughly 
they -were understood, how fully they were appre- 
ciated. It was a sight which can never be effaced 
from memory, when the crowded hall was filled 
with impatient students awaiting the presence of 
their much loved professor, who with difficulty 
threaded his way, amid immense applause, with a 
slow and solemn step, to the chair of the professor. 
He poured forth, at first slowly, in a continued 



152 M. Thiers. 



flow of elegant language, eulogiums upon the great 
writers in his own language, and then, with an im- 
petuosity that seemed to convey an electric impetus 
around, his face, at first sombre and inexpressive, 
lighted up with supernatural animation ; and as 
he gazed around, he inspired each of his auditors 
with the conviction that he was listening to a be- 
ing of a superior order. 

In the Assembly, M. Guizot spoke in a different 
style from what he did at the Sorbomie ; and it 
was somewhat difficult to define the emotion that 
predominated in him : no sense either of triumph 
or of defeat was apparent. Cold, sombre, and medi- 
tative, he spoke with authority ; and it was only at 
rare intervals that anv great animation was visible 
in his countenance. It is no discredit to those 
statesmen that they earned their livelihood by writ- 
ing for the newspapers ; indeed, M. Guizot, aided 
by Madame Guizot, derived his subsistence for a 
long time from his literary labour. But they were 
the innocent cause of much mischief , for many a 
scribe who contributed a few lines to some journal 
anticipated the time when he might become Prime 
Minister of France. 

M. Thiers. — It was in the Legislative Assembly 
that M. Thiers appeared to most advantage; but 
neither his matter nor his manner awoke the same 
feeling as those of his great competitor for power. 
An acute reasoner and an eloquent declaimer, though 
his voice is naturally harsh, and shrill, his gestures 
are striking and animated, and he fixed the attention 
even of his political opponents. He marshalled his 
arguments with incredible skill, and brought out 



Lamartine. 153 



the caprices of his thought with energy and with 
decision. His countenance became animated as he 
spoke ; and though his brilliant intelligence is tinged 
by a sarcastic expression not always befitting, his 
physiognomy is pleasing and occasionally winning. 
Upon the British Ambassador, Lord Normanby, he 
seemed to produce a great effect ; for the noble Lord, 
who generally slumbered gently through the de- 
bate in the diplomatic loge, always woke up when 
M. Thiers commenced one of those brilliant attacks 
upon the administration, which at length unseated 
his powerful rival. 

Lamartine. — There was a period when much 
was expected from Lamartine. Certainly no one did 
more for the safety of Paris than he did during the 
first days of the revolution of 1848; but there was 
too much poetry in his head for a statesman. He 
was too much absorbed in himself to think of his 
friends ; the consequence was, that he never made 
up a party to support him indeed he always stood 
aloof from any associations. His soirees on Saturday 
evenings in the Eue de 1'Universite were most agree- 
able, but were only social : every one sought access 
to them. They were presided over by Madame 
Lamartine, a highly-accomplished Englishwoman, 
daughter of Colonel Birch of Norfolk. She was an 
amateur artist, and took great delight in sculpture ; 
a bust of her husband from her chisel is one of the 
best likenesses we have of Lamartine. At his re- 
unions were to be seen the principal literary and 
political persons of the day, and all the distinguished 
artists ; but amongst them were no attached friends. 
Many persons expected that he would be elected 



154 Prince Louis Napoleon. 

the first President of the Eepublic . and this most 
probably would have been the case, had not Louis 
Napoleon presented himself, for Lamartine was pre- 
ferred to Cavaignac. The poet foresaw that the 
name of Bonaparte would cany everything before 
it, and was one of those who opposed the admis- 
sion into France of all who belonged to that 
family. 

Prince Louis Napoleon. — Great was the eager- 
ness of every one to know the opinion that had been 
formed in England of the Prince Louis Napoleon. 
It was only known that he was looked on there as 
a perfect gentleman ; but nobody could understand 
why he should have had himself sworn in as a 
special constable on the occasion of the Chartist 
demonstration of the 10th of April, and various 
were the reasons assigned. 

His first speech in the Legislative Assembly was 
expected to be an explanation of his policy ; it was, 
however, brief and modest. The election of the 
Prince as President of the Eepublic may be con- 
sidered as a national triumph, as it certainly proved 
a national benefit ; for he immediately took steps 
to organise a competent ministry, and commenced 
carrying into effect the improvements that his mind 
had long been engaged in studying. His speeches, 
his addresses, gave evidence of a vigorous intelli- 
gence, and he now and then astonished his ministers 
by the boldness of his language. This was the case 
at the inauguration of the railroad at Dijon, on 
which occasion he delivered an address, which M. 
Leon Faucher, his then Prime Minister, took care to 
alter before he gave it publicity- The Prince had 



The Coup dlEtat. 155 

occasion sometimes to change his ministry, according 
as circumstances permitted, but his selections uni- 
formly gave satisfaction to the country. The sta- 
tion of Minister of Finance was filled for the most 
part by M. Achille Fould, who, amid all the varied 
changes in the political world, has maintained a 
well-deserved popularity, whilst his attachment to 
the Emperor has been both political and personal. 

The Coup d'Etat. — The simple narrative of an un- 
prejudiced individual who has witnessed some of the 
scenes of that extraordinary event, the coup d'etat 
of 2d December 1851, and who has had oppor- 
tunities of forming a judgment for himself of many 
of the circumstances attendant upon it, will, I am 
persuaded, be received with indulgence as a contri- 
bution of facts, for the accuracy of which I am able 
to vouch from my personal knowledge. 

As a boy I read with infinite delight the volumes 
that described one of the most remarkable revolu- 
tions that history has recorded, and which was 
effected almost entirely by two daring women. The 
Empress Catherine of Eussia and the Princess Dash- 
koff in a single night hurled from his throne the 
despotic autocrat of all the Eussias ; when his bold 
and ambitious wife seized his crown, and ruled the 
empire with uninterrupted power. 

I have perused with attention most of the works 
that have contained a narrative of the events dur- 
ing the memorable days of December 1851, and I 
am persuaded that the public mind in England has 
been influenced by accounts written by persons who, 
not having witnessed them, or been acquainted with 
the state of society in Paris, have drawn inferences 



156 The Coup d'Mat. 

not j ustified by the actual position of affairs at that 
eventful period. One work, written by a man of 
high literary talent, appears to have been brought out 
for the express purpose of calumniating the Em- 
peror and his ministers. How fallacious are some 
of the contributions to the history of that time may 
be inferred from the fact that they affect to narrate 
what was passing within the walls of the palace of 
the Elysee whilst the conflict was going on in the 
streets of Paris ; even so minutely, as to describe 
the attitude and sayings of the individual who, at 
the same time, is spoken of as solitary, and brood- 
ing by himself over the probable issue of the 
struggles. 

State of Public Feeling in Paris. — Every think- 
ing person in Paris, towards the close of the year 
1851, anticipated, with considerable apprehension, 
that early in the ensuing spring a great change must 
take place in the government of the country. The 
constitution, which had been proclaimed with ap- 
parent enthusiasm in the year 1848, appeared likely 
to produce anarchy and confusion ; for a new 
President and an Assembly had to be elected, and 
whatever claims the individual who had once acted 
as head of the state might have upon the country, 
he was, according to the constitution, ineligible 
again to fill that high position. There was every 
reason to fear that the Eed Eepubhcans would 
make a desperate effort to gain power, even should 
the streets of Paris again be deluged with blood ; 
indeed, the language of some of their adherents 
boldly proclaimed that liberty could only be secured 
by means of the guillotine. In effect, a struggle for 



The Prince-President. 157 

power had commenced between the Prince-Presi- 
dent and the representatives of the people. The 
Assembly had refused to grant to the chief of the 
state the funds necessary to defray the expenses 
attendant upon his position ; it manifested distrust 
of his ministers, and jealousy of his popularity with 
the army, of which Changarnier had the command ; 
and so mean were the devices resorted to to annoy 
Louis Napoleon, that he was compelled to wear at 
reviews the uniform of a general of the National 
Guard. A decided opposition was being organised 
against his re-election ; and there is no doubt that 
his personal liberty was menaced by his opponents, 
and that, had not the coup d'etat taken place, his 
career would have terminated in the fortress of 
Vincennes. The candidature of the Prince de 
Joinville for the Presidency of 1852, which was very 
popular in France, even among the Liberal party, 
and seemed likely to be successful, disquieted the 
Bonapartists ; and the violent and insolent language 
of General Changarnier aroused Louis Napoleon to 
the conviction that the time for action had arrived. 
It was the general opinion that a crisis was rapidly 
approaching, and only the President had the skill 
and courage to place himself at the head of the 
movement, and act decisively. 

The Prince-President. — The Prince-President 
naturally looked to that great source of power in 
all governments, the army, as his strongest support ; 
as military discipline secures prompt and efficient 
action at the bidding of one directing mind. The 
army, having already been disgusted by the inter- 
ference of the Legislative body, felt humiliated by 



158 The Coup d'fitat. 

the Eepublicans, and hailed with delight the expected 
advent of a bold leader. At the end of November 
the principal military authorities met at the house 
of General Magnan, and unanimously resolved to 
co-operate in any measures necessary to secure the 
tranquillity of Paris, and establish a firm and reso- 
lute government. The whole army being stationed 
in the vicinity of the metropolis, was prepared for 
some decisive movement ; and although its precise 
nature was not understood, yet there was a de- 
termination to obey any orders emanating from 
the military authorities, whatever might be the 
consequence. 

Relying on the support that he was thus to re- 
ceive, the Prince-President announced to some of 
his faithful followers that the time had at length 
arrived when it was necessary for the welfare of 
the country, as well as for his own preservation, 
that measures should be adopted to dismiss the 
Assembly, and to give into his own hands the reins 
of government. Upon every occasion Louis Napoleon 
lias secured to himself many attached adherents 
and friends, who have devotedly followed his for- 
tunes on desperate occasions, and have not failed 
him in adversity. Such fidelity and devotion, while 
it reflects honour on them, also indicates rare quali- 
ties in the Prince, who exercises so powerful an in- 
fluence over his adherents. His winning, unaffected 
manners, his calm self-possession, the deliberation 
and coolness of his judgment, and his firm convic- 
tion of his ultimate success, which have borne 
Louis Napoleon through difficulties apparently in- 
surmountable, have never failed to impress all who 
have been admitted to his intimacy. He has also 



M. de Morny. 159 



obtained the well-merited reputation of never hav- 
ing alienated or forgotten a friend. 

M. de Morny. — The friend who stood forward 
on this occasion, and in whom the President felt 
that he could place the utmost reliance, was M. de 
Morny, a man of firm determination and keen in- 
tellect, who was well acquainted with the state of 
political feeling in France, and was friendly with 
some of the most distinguished men of the day. 
He entered into the plan proposed with a full con- 
viction that he was acting the part of a good citizen, 
and an attached friend, and zealously devoted him- 
self to the cause of the Prince ; indeed, much of its 
success must be attributed to his admirable arrange- 
ments. Throughout he exhibited that calm but 
energetic and indomitable spirit essential on great 
occasions. He was at the Opera Comique on the 
very night when the storm was to burst forth ; but 
nothing in his manner or appearance betrayed that 
his mind was absent from the dramatic scene. 

The following anecdote is related of him, of the 
truth of which there can be no doubt. Being; seated 
beside a lady of high rank, she asked him if the 
rumour in circulation was true, that it was intended 
to sweep out the Legislative Assembly ; the prompt 
reply of the future Minister of the Interior was, " I 
trust that I shall be near the handle of the broom 
that is to produce this effect." His tact, his temper, 
and his moderation may be judged of by the tele- 
graphic despatches which passed, during the tumult 
of the day, between himself and the Minister of 
Police. The celebrated Dr Veron occupied him- 
self for some time in copying these messages as they 



160 The Coup oVEiat. 

were transmitted ; and the experienced editor of the 
Constitutionnel has enabled the public to judge how 
rapidly M. de Morny entered into the ideas of the 
Minister of Police, and how cautiously yet vigor- 
ously he answered the somewhat hurried and impru- 
dent communications that he received. 

Major (now General) Fleury, a most gallant officer 
who had greatly distinguished himself in Africa, was 
another individual upon whose remarkable abilities 
the Prince had the strongest reliance ; to these per- 
sonal friends were added M. de Maupas, who had, 
in the exercise of his high authority as Prefet at 
Bordeaux, shewn qualifications which entitled 
him to be intrusted with the important office of 
Minister of Police. Two distinguished men of high 
rank in the army represented the military element ; 
General (afterwards Marshal) St Arnaud accepted 
the onerous position of Minister of War, and 
General (now Marshal) Magnan was appointed to 
the command of the army at Paris. 

The Night of December 1. — On the evening of 
the 1st of December, a gay and fashionable assembly 
congregated at the palace of the Elysee ; all was 
gaiety and animation as usual; it was a fete of social 
life, into which care never seemed to enter : to-mor- 
row seemed never dreamt of. The Prince joined the 
lively throng ; no trace of care was upon his brow : 
he was apparently bent only on making happy the 
friends by whom he was surrounded ; and, with his 
usual affability and kindness, he spoke to several of 
those who were for the first time present, giving to 
all a hearty welcome. At eleven o'clock the party 
broke up, and the visitors departed. 



The Night of December 1. 161 



Then the Prince, with his faithful friend and 
secretary M. Mocquard, the Comte de Morny, M. de 
Maupas, and General St Arnaud, entered the private 
cabinet of the President, to arrange definitively the 
course of proceeding on the morrow. It was at 
this meeting that the final orders were issued to 
the various functionaries by whom the plan of opera- 
tions were to be carried into effect. Everything 
had been well and maturely considered ; even the 
minor details had been decided upon. To obtain 
possession of the Government press — to arrest some 
of those whose violent opposition was most to be 
dreaded — to prevent the meeting of the Legislative 
body — to distribute the different regiments in com- 
manding position — to name a new ministry, — these 
were objects of vital importance, the failure of any 
one of which might endanger the success of the 
whole movement ; and each of the members of this 
cabinet council had important duties to perform, 
which if neglected would produce irremediable con- 
fusion. Not one of these determined men failed in 
his purpose, and all acted in concert ; each one felt 
that upon his own efficiency rested the lives and 
fortunes of his associates, and the complete success 
of the coup. 

The first step taken by Louis Napoleon was to 
sign the dismissal of the existing ministry, the ap- 
pointment of the new ministers to their respective 
offices, and to prepare those energetic proclamations 
which on the following morning were read with 
eager eyes by the astonished Parisians. An active 
and intelligent officer, Colonel Beville, had been 
selected to carry to the printing office the decrees 
that w T ere to be disseminated ; these consisted of 

L 



162 The Coup d'Mat. 



appeals to the people, orders to the army, and the 
proclamation of the Prefet of Police. He took 
them to the national printing office, where he found 
that a hundred of the Garde Municipale had, 
with prudent foresight, been installed, with orders 
to obey his commands. The director, of course, 
complied with the injunctions of the Prefet of 
Police, and the printers were kept at work during 
the night under strict surveillance ; and in the 
morning Paris was placarded with the President's 
decrees. 

As soon as M. de Beville had left the room, M. 
de Morny, M. Maupas, and General St Arnaud re- 
paired to their several posts, prepared to act simul- 
taneously, and with the energy and boldness essen- 
tial to secure success. The account given by Mr 
Kinglake of what occurred on the eve of the coup 
d'etat is so far from being correct, that instead of 
manifesting the perturbation, nervousness, and ap- 
parent anxiety of mind so graphically described, the 
Prince quietly retired to rest, and simply gave 
orders that he should be awakened at five in the 
morning. He betrayed not the slightest emotion, 
and nothing transpired that could give the house- 
hold the most remote intimation of what was about 
to occur : indeed, it is a well-known fact, that the 
domestics were as much surprised the following 
morning at learning that a revolution had taken 
place in Paris, as any other inhabitants of the city, 
for some of them actually sallied out to inquire of 
the servants of the English Embassy whether there 
was any truth in the reports that had reached them 
from without. 



The Arrests, 163 



The Arrests. — The Minister of Police, M. de 
Maupas, instantly summoned all the commissioners 
of the different arrondissements into his cabinet, 
and signed orders for the arrest of the leading 
members of the Legislative Assembly, which were 
to be carried into effect before the break of day. 
Strange to say, there was not a word of inquiry, 
not a sign of hesitation. These functionaries recog- 
nised at once the authority under which they were 
called upon to act, and performed their duties with 
marvellous promptitude and with unfailing effi- 
ciency. The prisons of Paris received the men who 
the day before were the legislators and governors of 
France. Nor did the jailers hesitate (as was the 
case when Robespierre was overthrown) to' open their 
gates for the reception of their late masters. 

An anecdote is related, that General Changarnier 
was very nearly being made acquainted with the im- 
pending events. A young officer whose regiment 
was stationed at Courbevoie, had come up to Paris 
to pass the night; he was awoke by his servant, who 
told him that his presence was required immediately, 
as his regiment had been suddenly called out. The 
officer, surprised at this intelligence, and thinking 
that he ought to acquaint General Changarnier with 
this unusual order, went to the General's hotel ; but 
finding that the porter was slow in opening the 
doors, he abandoned his intention and went to his 
quarters ; whence he was obliged to accompany his 
regiment on the following day to overthrow the 
authority of General Changarnier and hjs friends. 
No delicacy was shewn in the manner of arresting 
the most distinguished men of the 'day ; and the 



164 The Coup d'JEtat, 

volume of M. Granier de Cassagnac, narrating what 
occurred in each case, has not met with general 
approbation : a little more consideration for men 
woke up in the dead of the night to be thrown 
into prison, would have better become that injudi- 
cious writer. 

M. de Moray, after playing at whist at the Jockey 
Club with Colonel Feray and Count Daru, went to> 
the hotel of the Minister of the Interior at five in 
the morning, and found the actual possessor of the 
office enjoying a peaceful slumber, from which he 
was speedily awakened to find himself superseded. 
The Chamber of Deputies was dissolved ; some of 
the members in A r ain attempted to assemble and 
form a house, but they were removed and im- 
prisoned for the day in the barracks on the Quai 
d'Orsay, whilst others were distributed amongst 
the neighbouring forts. Cromwell, when he drove 
the members out of the House of Commons, and 
the first Napoleon, when he boldly turned the re- 
presentatives of the people out of their chamber at 
St Cloud, could not have acted with more energy 
and decision than was shewn on this occasion ; and 
apparently under the sanction of the law, for the 
ministers had their instructions direct from the 
President of the Eepublic, who, as the executive 
power, was invested with the authority of arrest 
and imprisonment. All the different employes of 
Government, therefore, whether civil or military, 
carried out the commands they received without a 
moment's hesitation, coming as they did from the 
quarter which they were accustomed to regard as 
being responsible for what they did. In short, 
everything worked well, and the Government was 



Paris on December 2. 165 

soon in the hands of those who had so adroitly- 
planned and so boldly carried out the coup d'etat. 

It now remained to keep the people tranquil, and 
to preserve the public peace from those daring Ke- 
publicans, who would be certain to take advantage 
of any movement that might afford them an oppor- 
tunity of seizing power, and to whom any amount 
,of bloodshed would be considered of little conse- 
quence, so that their ends could be obtained. 

Paris on December 2. — Upon the 2d of 
December, totally unsuspicious of what was going 
forward, I left my house, and was somewhat sur- 
prised to witness great agitation amongst the people 
in the streets, who, for the most part, seemed 
anxious to return to their homes. I saw various 
groups reading placards of a large size upon the 
walls of every street, that had evidently been posted 
up by order of Government, as they were printed 
on white paper; for since the revolution of 1848, 
all private announcements have, by order of the 
police, been printed upon coloured paper. Knowing 
that at the mayoralty of my arrondissement every 
authentic document would appear on the facade, I 
hastened thither ; besides, I was anxious to know 
what was said by the street politicians, who are in 
the habit of daily visiting the public office, outside 
which the Moniteur is daily affixed. 

I found two proclamations attracting the eager 
attention of the readers : one was a plebiscite, coun- 
tersigned De Morny, decreeing that votes should 
be taken at the different mayoralties for or against 
the maintenance of the power of Louis Napoleon ; 
the other emanated from the Prefet du Police, de- 



166 Paris on December 2. 

manding the maintenance of order, and recommend- 
ing people to remain at home. Little was said by 
the readers ; but in the group I espied a well-known 
Figaro of the neighbourhood, who whilst shaving his 
customers usually launched out into politics. He 
was a stanch Bonapartist, for his father, a soldier, had 
been raised to the rank of sergeant in consequence 
of a brave but ineffectual attempt to rescue Prince 
Poniatowski from a watery grave at the battle of 
Leipsic. I determined to submit my chin to the 
operation of this worthy during the afternoon, feel- 
ing sure that I should hear information from him as 
to what was the general opinion of his customers. 
In the meantime I strolled into the Faubourg St 
Honore, where a squadron of the 12th Eegiment of 
Dragoons was stationed before the British Embassy, 
another being drawn up in front of the palace of 
the Elysee, whilst there was a third doing duty at 
the garden gate. A few individuals stood gazing on 
the unusual military display ; but not a word was 
uttered, and they soon passed on. Now and then a 
carriage drove up to the gate, and after a scrutiny 
from the porter, was admitted or rolled away- So 
far as I could learn, no demonstration of any kind 
was made that day at the fashionable end of the town ; 
but it was said that the Eepublicans were to have, at 
ten o'clock at night, meetings to take into considera- 
tion the incidents of the day; and that in the Fau- 
bourg St Antoine, the Barriere du Trone, and the Fau- 
bourg du Temple, cries had been heard of "Vive la 
Republique sociale ! " and " A bas le Pretendant ! " 

After reconnoitring the principal streets, and seeing 
nothing remarkable, beyond the anxiety and curiosity 
written upon the faces of most persons, and witness- 



Paris on December 2. 167 



ing, what is not unusual in the streets of Paris, the 
marching by of several regiments evidently in high 
glee, I adjourned to the barber's, and seated myself 
in his chair. He was in a state of great excitement, 
and expatiating on the many virtues of Prince 
Louis Napoleon, with which he had become ac- 
quainted from having on two occasions dressed the 
hair of the chambermaid whose duty it was to lay 
the fire over-night in the cabinet of the President, 
which he himself generally lighted at an early hour 
in the morning. The excellent soubrette could 
never speak in sufficiently high terms of the gentle- 
ness and amiable temper of her master, and the 
worthy barber had caught the infection. Deriving 
his information from her as to the Prince's domes- 
tic virtues, and inheriting his father's admiration of 
the great Napoleon, he launched out in no measured 
terms against all those who opposed the re-election 
of the President, though his animosity to the Eepub- 
licans was somewhat restrained by the presence of 
two doubtful-looking statesmen in blouses, who 
now and then interrupted him, by expressing their 
faith in General Changarnier. My eloquent friend, 
however, soon resumed his discourse, anathematising 
M. Thiers as having obliged King Louis Philippe to 
resign, that he himself might become Prime Minister 
to the Duchess of Orleans, and hurling strong lan- 
guage against M. Emile Girardin, for abetting 
Prince Napoleon, the cousin of Prince Louis, in his 
views of succeeding to the Presidentship : he had 
heard some cries in the street of " Vive l'Empereur ! " 
from the military, and they had delighted him. 
Some of the surrounding persons, waiting to have 
their beards trimmed, differed from the knight of 



168 Louis Napoleon at the Elysee. 

the brush ; doubts were expressed of the taleut of the 
Prince-President, and there was evidently a Kepub- 
lican tendency springing up ; but the announcement 
that the Prince, attended by a numerous staff, was 
passing by, put a stop to the conversation ; away 
every one rushed out to see the passing show, and 
upon their return there was a universal opinion ex- 
pressed, that the Prince-President looked like a noble 
soldier, and " every inch a king : " his gallant bear- 
ing had evidently produced a strong impression upon 
the spectators, the majority of whom from that 
moment were evidently in favour of the changes 
that had taken place. 

Louis Napoleon at the Elysee. — It has been 
asserted that the Prince-President remained in his 
cabinet, during these eventful days, solitary and 
gloomy, and, like the Eoman emperor at Capreae, 
solely occupied in issuing his edicts for the destruc- 
tion of his opponents. This story originally ema- 
nated from an author more distinguished for the 
brilliancy of his imagination than for the soberness 
of his judgment, or the accuracy of his knowledge ; 
and who was conspicuous for his political malevo- 
lence, and the virulence of his speeches in the Legis- 
lative Assembly. He has been followed by some 
who, whilst they claim to write history, have no 
hesitation in copying the errors and exaggerations 
of others ; but it can safely be asserted that, so far 
from Prince Louis Napoleon being left to himself, 
the Princesse Mathilde remained with him the greater 
part of the day ; King Jerome and most of the new 
ministers were admitted, and the Elysee was not 
closed to any visitors who had a right to present 



Louis Napoleon at the Ely see. 169 



themselves to the President. Those who were re- 
ceived, found him calm, collected, and urbane as 
usual ; and as notes and messages were placed in 
his hands, he received them with coolness, and 
quietly read their contents ; but never, by his coun- 
tenance, his gestures, or his words, could the effect 
or import of these communications be inferred. 
He addressed all with his customary affability and 
kindness, and conversed freely upon various topics. 
The Emperor, it is true, does not possess that volu- 
bility for which Frenchmen are remarkable ; he thinks 
and weighs his words before he speaks, and what he 
says is concise and to the point : his manner is quiet 
and reticent, like that of a grave and thoughtful 
man ; but this quietude is amply made up for by 
the flattering attention which he gives to the words 
of all with whom he speaks : nothing escapes him ; 
he listens intelligently to all that is said, and his 
replies and observations evince a wish not to express 
his own opinion, but to learn that of others ; and 
he never fails to appreciate at their due the value 
of the views and opinions brought before him. 
Upon these eventful days the Prince maintained 
his usual equanimity, and was not more grave and 
silent than usual ; he never for an instant flinched 
from possible danger ; he was always prepared to 
meet it ; indeed, the man who had so boldly ad- 
vanced into his enemy's country at Strasbourg and 
at Boulogne, was not "likely to be daunted or quailed 
when so much was already accomplished ; and his 
followers had seen enough of his conduct in such 
emergencies, to be satisfied of his presence of mind 
and personal courage. 

M. de Persigny, whose attachment to the Em- 



1 70 Louis Napoleon at the Elysee. 

peror is such that he would at any moment lay down 
his life for him and for his dynasty, was constantly 
at the Elysee ; for to him had been intrusted the 
task of effecting an honourable retreat, in case of an 
adverse turn of circumstances. His duty it would 
have been, had the day gone against the President, 
to have collected the household, and to have con- 
ducted the Prince, with all the troops that were 
faithful, to the palace of the Tuileries, where the 
active leaders were determined to make a last stand, 
and succeed, or perish with arms in their hands. 
This was the only alternative proposed ; no prepa- 
rations had been made for flight ; no horses and 
carriages kept ready, no money had been sent to 
foreign countries, and nothing had been packed up 
to be carried off at a moment's notice. There was 
a firm resolve that death or victory was to be the 
result of this great enterprise. 

In the course of the first day, I paid a visit 
to an old comrade, that distinguished officer Sir 
de Lacy Evans, who had just come to Paris, 
and was residing in the Place de la Madeleine ; 
the conversation naturally turned on the events 
passing before our eyes, and the General ex- 
pressed much satisfaction at the apparent promp- 
titude with which the affair had been carried out ; 
for we believed that public tranquillity had not 
been disturbed. He observed that the enemies of 
the Prince-President had brought the whole thing 
upon themselves, by their shameful treatment of 
the chief of the state ; adding, that he felt per- 
suaded that if Louis Napoleon would give the 
people a liberal constitution, which should include 



Reception of the Prince-President. 171 

the freedom of the press, he would prove himself a 
greater man than his uncle. 

I had been told that a column of the National 
Guard had marched with the infantry, but I found 
that this was not the case ; in fact the utmost care 
had been taken not to call out the National Guard, 
for it was well known that in some of the regiments 
there were Eepublicans, who might be induced to 
leave their brethren and join the insurgents, if they 
were disposed to raise barricades. The consequence 
was that everything depended upon the regulartroops. 

Eeception of the Prince-President. — When 
the Prince, attended by a numerous staff, accom- 
panied by the ex-King Jerome and by Count Flahault, 
rode through the streets, he exhibited that bravery 
which has never deserted him in the hour of danger ; 
notwithstanding the calumnies of his traducers, who 
choose to assert that he is deficient in personal 
courage and nerve. He was remarkably well re- 
ceived by the army, and shouts of " Vive le Prince!" 
were heard from every regiment, as he cantered 
along the Champs Elysees. The people of Paris 
are never demonstrative in their reception of their 
monarchs ; even the ordinary token of respect to 
royalty, the lifting of the hat, is rare, and on this 
occasion there was no observable departure from 
the usual habit. The Prince-President returned at 
an early hour to the Elysee, where M. de Persigny 
received him with the intelligence that all the steps 
hitherto taken were successful, and that the military 
were fully prepared to fulfil the orders of _ their 
superiors ; indeed, so obedient were the sentries to 



172 Alarm of the Parisians. 

the commands which had been given, that when the 
President, preparing to leave the garden of the palace, 
presented himself at the gate, the advanced guard 
of the 12th Regiment, then on duty, would not 
allow him to pass without giving the countersign. 
The orderly officers and the aides-de-camp gave 
proofs of their courage, zeal, and devotion. At 
one moment false reports were rife, that some of 
the regiments exhibited an unwillingness to act ; 
General Eollin was summoned to express his 
opinion, and explain the state of affairs ; he found 
the Prince firm and resolved, and prepared to take 
upon himself any personal responsibility for any 
steps that might be necessary. In short, every one 
who approached the Prince — and these were many 
— were struck with admiration at his dignified 
equanimity and self-possession. 

Alarm of the Parisians. — The news of the im- 
prisonment of so many persons of great political im- 
portance, spread like wildfire throughout the whole 
of Paris, whilst the suddenness and the boldness of 
their arrest astonished and struck terror into the 
minds of many. Much sympathy was felt for them 
individually; and the horrors of the great French 
Revolution, the massacres in the prisons, the slaughter 
of priests, the banishment to Cayenne, rose up before 
the affrighted imaginations of the friends and rela- 
tions of those who had been imprisoned. In the 
cafes a profound silence was observed ; all commu- 
nication from man to man seemed suddenly to have 
ceased ; and anxiety was deducted on every coun- 
tenance. The salons of the gay world were neces- 
sarily closed, as few dared to venture forth in the 



Alarm of the Parisians. 173 



evening, no one knowing the extent of the danger 
that mio;ht be incurred. Were there to be Roman 
proscriptions % Was the guillotine to be erected once 
again on the Place de la Concorde % Lists of the 
prisoners (which of course abounded with errors) 
were eagerly circulated, and surmises were made as 
to their probable fate. It must be acknowledged 
that these alarms were natural, for the real dispo- 
sition of the Prince was not known, otherwise there 
would have been less uneasiness, as was evinced by 
the fact that the gentlest treatment had been re- 
commended, and that not a single individual arrested 
received the slightest insult or injury. Indeed, as 
soon as quietness was re-established, and the influence 
of the members of the Assembly could no longer be 
of consequence, every one was liberated; and not a 
person was in any way interfered with who was 
willing to submit to the new state of things. Some 
who menaced the newly-established government, 
were necessarily exiled for a short period, to prevent 
their entering upon schemes which could be only 
injurious to society and themselves. But as soon 
as possible a complete amnesty was offered ; and 
those who announced their intention to remain quiet 
were at once allowed to return to their homes. Those 
who were taken with arms in their hands, and had 
proclaimed the Republic, were handed over for trial 
to the established tribunals, and only those were 
removed from the country whose character as dis- 
turbers of society had been previously acknowledged. 
In the conduct of the new government throughout, 
there was nothing that could justify the attacks that 
had been made, and the assertion that cruelties were 
inflicted upon innocent and harmless persons. In 



1 74 The Legislative Assembly. 

all great emergencies there are circumstances which, 
in the more peaceful states of society, would be 
highly reprehensible ; the moment called for the 
establishment of a Dictator : " Nequid respublica 
detrimenti caperet." Democracy, Socialism, Eed- 
Kepublicanism were to be combated, and success 
attended the grand attempt. Property and intelli- 
gence have been rendered secure; the boldness and 
energy of one man have crushed dangers to society 
which were seen to be fast approaching, and which, 
if not arrested, would have produced anarchy and 
confusion, and destroyed the peace and prosperity 
of the nation. The measures that the Prince-Presi- 
dent was compelled to take, naturally excited the 
wrath of the very men who would have overthrown 
him ; and every means were resorted to, by a small 
knot of aggrieved persons, to excite the indignation 
of the people at the recital of the misfortunes that 
fell upon those who exposed themselves to peril on 
an eventful day. Much was necessarily done in 
the defence of order which those who live where 
tranquillity has been for centuries established can- 
not fully comprehend; and the sympathy that is 
felt for the weak and suffering, has been called into 
activity by some who are incapable of judging 
fairly of the circumstances. 

The Legislative Assembly. — But whatever sym- 
pathy may have been felt for individuals, none 
whatever was expressed or shewn for the body to 
which they belonged. The abrupt dismissal of the 
Legislative Assembly was not regretted by any one ; 
on the contrary, it was considered as a benefit to the 
country. The Assembly had never gained or deserved 



The Legislative Assembly. 1 75 



the confidence of the people, and not one of its acts 
could be cited that was worthy of a great nation. 
Even the Provisional Government, during its short 
and feverish existence, had shewn some proofs of its 
desire to benefit society; it had abrogated the laws 
that punished political offences with death; ithad ame- 
liorated the hardships of the debtor; carried out some 
excellent improvements in the direction of railways, 
and had boldly met the financial exigencies by addi- 
tional taxation, whilst it had removed the vexatious 
octroi. But the Legislative Assembly seemed to 
take a delight in repealing every statute that had 
given satisfaction to the nation ; its aim appeared 
to be to return to the legislation of MM. Mole, 
Guizot, and Thiers; and it was remarkable for its in- 
gratitude to any man who had done the state service. 
M. Lamartine, to whom Paris was so much indebted, 
whose eloquence had controlled the fierce democracy 
when the mob would have supplanted the tricolor 
by the red flag at the Hotel de Ville, could scarcely 
command attention; nothing that he said was lis- 
tened to. Cabals against General Cavaignac, the man 
to whom they were indebted for their existence, 
prevented his influence having due weight, and he 
was forsaken as soon as he ceased to be useful. 
Their presidents were utterly disregarded ; the high- 
minded and finished gentleman, Armand Marrast, 
could not control the debates ; M. Dupin was only 
regarded by them as a clever jester, whose caustic 
wit and epigrammatic reproofs served to amuse; 
his judicious admonitions and calls to order were 
unheeded, and the Assembly was too often the scene 
of virulent dispute and indecent violence. The 
tumult and clamour attending the appearance of 



176 The Legislative Assembly. 



any unpopular member in the tribune were dis- 
graceful. When Victor Hugo attempted to speak, 
bursts of laughter followed some striking remarks 
which were not in accordance with the sentiments 
of the Assembly ; the taunts and marks of ridicule 
lashed the speaker into a fury, and the more vehe- 
ment his speech and gestures, the more his auditors 
derided him. There were many men of great 
ability in the Assembly who were esteemed by the 
country at large, but general opinion was not in fa- 
vour of the body, and its disorganisation was regarded 
with much the same indifference as was the break- 
ing up of the Eump Parliament by Oliver Crom- 
well; the announcement of its dissolution, therefore, 
was favourably received. There had been so many 
changes in the ministry, that people hardly knew 
who filled the respective offices ; Leon Faucher was 
almost the only one who enjoyed public confidence, 
and even he was regarded by a large party with 
suspicion, for they beheld in him only a warming- 
pan for the advent to office of M. Thiers, who was 
supposed to be ready to take advantage of any 
change, and offer himself as candidate for the Presi- 
dency of the Kepublic. Eumours widely circulated 
that a coup d'etat was preparing on the part of the 
Assembly, and many of its acts seemed to support 
this idea such as the attempt to place under the au- 
thority of the Assembly a large military guard, and 
the defiant and menacing language of General Chan- 
garnier, then in command of the army The appre- 
hensions of the people w T ere constantly aroused, and 
conflicts were daily expected ; foreign statesmen 
looked with anxiety at what was passing, and the 
alarm upon the Continent was increased by the ex- 



The 3d and Ath of December. 177 

pedition to Eome ; for, however much such a check 
upon the policy of Austria might be necessary, 
French interference with the Republican party in 
Italy was looked upon with suspicion. In fact, the 
National Assembly had lost the respect and con- 
fidence of the nation, and no one was anxious to see 
it reassemble. The protests and appeals to the 
people, made by some few members on the morning 
of the 2d of December, were received with apathy, 
and elicited no exhibition of feeling in their behalf ; 
for, when at the Mairie arrests took place, no rescue 
was dreamt of ; the spectators gazed on quietly, and 
were perfectly indifferent to the consequences. 

The 3d and 4th oe December. — Slight bar- 
ricades were formed in some of the streets, but the 
people took little interest in these manifestations on 
the first day ; on the 3d of December, however, greater 
resistance was offered. But evidently M. de Maupas 
received exaggerated reports from his employes, 
which he somewhat hastily communicated to the 
Minister of the Interior; and these, unfortunately, 
led to the decisive and energetic course taken on 
the melancholy 4th of December. M. de Maupas, 
unaccustomed to the amplifications of police agents, 
was alarmed by false reports; he actually commu- 
nicated a telegram announcing that the Prince de 
Joinville had disembarked at Cherbourg, and that 
other Princes of the house of Orleans had arrived 
at different parts of France. He also believed that 
the same opponents were in the field as those who 
had fought against Cavaignac, and that they were 
fighting at the barricades with determination; that 
Ledru Eollin, and a whole army of Red Republicans, 

M 



178 The 3d and tth of December . 



had reached Paris from Eouen ; in short, upon read- 
ing carefully the telegraphic despatches, the only- 
conclusion that can be arrived at is, that the fears 
of M. de Maupas, and not the orders issued from 
the Elysee, were the principal cause of the fatal 4th 
ef December. 

On Thursday, at a quarter past one, M. de Maupas, 
as Prefet of Police, transmitted a telegram to the 
Minister of the Interior, in which appears these words : 
— "Voila le moment de frapper un coup decisif. II 
faut le bruit et l'effet du canon, et il les faut tout de 
suite." The Minister of the Interior at this very time, 
when it has been asserted that the most sanguinary 
orders were issued, was exerting himself to see that 
the execution of all commands should be performed 
as inoffensively as possible : — "N'arretons pas legere- 
ment." " Get ordre sera execute avec beaucoup de 
politesse." " Faites fermer avec douceur la reunion." 
" Je ne veux pas que vos agents arretent l£*gerement." 
Such words, combined with other proofs, shew that 
there was no intention on the part of the adherents 
of the Prince to act with brutal force. The poor 
Prefet of Police seems, indeed, to have lost his head. 
Among other of his despatches I find the following : — 
"It is said that the 2d Dragoons (the very regiment 
that was guarding the Elysee) has arrived from St 
Germain, and that the Comte de Chambord is in its 
ranks as a private. I scarcely believe it." The only 
answer by M. de Morny was, " And I do not believe 
it." Even at the end of the fatal day, when every- 
body was regretting what had occurred, the frightened 
Minister of Police begs that the troops should guard 
him, that they should not be allowed to enter their 
barracks ; and at half-past five on that 4th of 



The 3d and Ath of December. 179 

December he announces new barricades, and states 
that fresh insurgents are coming up by the railroad. 
It is impossible to read the bulletins which passed 
on this occasion without arriving at the conclusion 
that M. de Morny, in obedience to the wishes of 
the Prince-President, acted with forbearance and 
lenity ; that, had he listened to the fears of the 
Minister of Police, the occurrences would have been 
of a much more fearful character. Even when this 
zealous chief of an active department pointed out to 
M. de Morny where Victor Hugo was concealed, 
and wished to make an examination of the house, 
the answer was, " Nefaites rien." 

That the 4th of December was a melancholy day 
for France, and will long remain remembered by 
Europe, is not to be denied; but it is neither just 
nor honest to attribute the lamentable events which 
then occurred to cold-heartedness on the part of Louis 
Napoleon. No man ever more deeply deplored them ; 
and where the opportunity offered, he gave what 
indemnity he could to the families of those who had 
suffered. There are young persons who lost their 
parents on that day who have been educated at his 
expense, the cost being defrayed out of his private 
purse ; and I know myself one instance in which the 
children have had a regular quarterly stipend paid 
to them, from their infancy, and which is continued, 
without interruption or diminution, to this day. 

The first impression made upon the minds of 
people in England as to what occurred on the 4th 
of December, was the result of a letter which ap- 
peared in the Times, from an officer of the British 
army, who, from a window on the Boulevard 
Montmartre, was a personal witness of the scene 



180 The Coup d'Etat. 

that took place in the street beneath him, where 
many persons fell victims to the fire of the soldiery. 
The infantry, quartered in sub-divisions, suddenly 
fired, not only upon the men, women, and children 
in the footpath, but at the windows above them, and 
with sad results : volley succeeded to volley, and 
it was evident that a panic had taken possession of 
the soldiery Their officers had given no commands ; 
for, as Captain Jesse observes, they were quietly 
smoking their cigars when the firing began. 

From the reports of the agents of the Minister of 
Police in the quarter of St Denis, firing from the win- 
dows took place at the commencement of the mili- 
tary impulse. "Des maisons sont dejd occupees par 
I'emeute; on a tire desfenetres," were the words trans- 
mitted from the office of the Minister of Police. It 
was this alarm that produced the fatal conc-equences. 
The windows of the houses had on former occasions 
been filled by insurgents who fired upon the troops, 
when the soldiers suffered so severely as to be under 
the necessity of watching for concealed foes, and 
had been obliged to rush into a house with the 
hope of dragging forth their enemies. In ]848, in 
the Rue Castiglione, two soldiers were killed by 
shots from the third story of a house, whilst a lady 
was quietly standing on the balcony above. The 
soldiery, too, remember that, in the days of Louis 
Philippe, from a window of a house upon one of the 
Boulevards, not very far from the spot where Cap- 
tain Jesse was standing, a deadly volley was dis- 
charged, by which many military were killed ; 
amongst them Marshal Mortier, as brave a soldier as 
ever drew a sword for his country. It is not to be 
denied that considerable irritation existed amongst 



What the Author Saw. 131 



the military, from the recollection of what had oc- 
curred during the Ee volution in 1848, when they 
were most shamefully treated ; — they recollected 
the carnage and the burning alive of the brave men 
in the guard-house before the Palais-Eoyal ; they 
bore in mind the treachery which some of their 
comrades experienced in the Champs Elyse*es ; and 
there existed amongst them a strong feeling against 
the Parisians generally. The firing of the soldiers 
at the house of M. Sallandrouze, near which was 
Captain Jesse's apartment, was occasioned by some 
persons standing on the steps cheering at what thej- 
supposed was the employment of blank cartridge by 
the troops. 

What the Author Saw. — I happened on that 
day to pay a visit, in company with my friend Mr 
Paget of the British Embassy, to my banker in the 
Eue Basse du Eampart : Mr Charles Lafitte then 
gave us to understand that orders had been given to 
the military to act with great moderation ; but if 
there existed the slightest disposition to riot, they 
were to " take the bull by the horns," and to destroy 
all barricades with cannon. During our short inter- 
view the bugles were heard close at hand, the win- 
dows were opened, and we took up a position on 
the balcony, whence we saw marching, in good mili- 
tary order and at double quick time, the Chasseurs 
of Vincennes. M. Lafitte, without anticipating 
what was about to occur, good-naturedly said, " If 
you wish to see the fun, you had better follow the 
troops ; for I am confident, from the information I 
have this moment received, that they are bent on 
mischief" 



1 82 The Coup d'JEtat. 

Mr Paget and I then bent our steps towards 
the Eue Richelieu, where the rattling of musketry- 
was distinctly" heard. My friend left for the 
British Embassy, saying, that as a diplomatist, 
his place was in the Faubourg St Honore and 
not upon the Boulevards. Immediately afterwards 
a brigade of Lancers, commanded by Colonels 
Feray and Bochefort, arrived opposite the spot 
where I had placed myself, at the angle of the Rue 
Grange Bateliere and the Boulevards. A con- 
siderable crowd had there collected ; and such was 
their hostile attitude, and so loud their vociferations, 
that I was convinced the Lancers would not long 
remain inactive, especially if the slightest insult 
was offered them. From amongst these persons 
thus coHected came a pistol ball with a loud detona- 
tion, and a soldier was wounded. Col. Rochefort im- 
mediately charged at the head of his regiment ; the 
consequence was that several of the crowd were 
severely wounded, and a bad feeling sprang up 
amongst the soldiery. I thought it prudent to quit 
this scene and return to my home, which I reached 
with considerable difficulty. 

Certainly, all that occurred was of a nature to 
excite uneasiness and alarm ; but " that it was seen 
with frenzied horror by thousands of French men 
and women " is an absurd exaggeration. The upper 
classes of Paris were no doubt exceedingly angry and 
irritated, because during every emeute in the metro- 
polis, the Boulevards on the Madeleine side of the 
Rue Richelieu always continued to be the resort of 
the flaneur, and had escaped the slaughter conse- 
quent on the erection of barricades ; and they went 
there attracted by " the pomp and circumstance 



Groundless Fabrications. 183 

of war," and thought themselves safe ; for they 
looked upon the soldiers as their national defenders 
against insurgents, and they were maddened at the 
idea of the slaughter of unarmed saunterers, who had 
gone out as it were under the shield of the military, 
to see what was going forward. 

Groundless Fabrications. — The occurrences of 
that day undoubtedly struck a terror into the hearts 
of the people of Paris which will never be obliter- 
ated, and they certainly have tended to affect the 
popularity of the Emperor Napoleon in the capital ; 
more especially as his political adversaries have 
never failed to throw upon him the responsibility 
of events over which he had no control. So dis- 
honest have been some of the writers who have 
furnished the public with their tales, that it has 
been stated that in the gardens of the Tuileries 
and the Luxembourg, military executions of 
prisoners took place in the dead of night ! The 
overthrow of a pile of the chairs, which in win- 
ter are generally to be seen in the garden of the 
Tuileries, and the consequent alarm given by the 
sentry, was even magnified into an attack upon the 
palace and the consequent carnage of the assail- 
ants. As for the statement that platoons of soldiers 
performed the office of executioners in the night, it is 
a pure invention ; and the rumour alleged to have 
been credited in Paris, that during the night of the 
4th and 5th of December prisoners were shot in 
batches and thrown into pits, is an equally groundless 
fabrication. I never heard that such a falsehood 
was propagated, until I read this shameful insinua- 
tion in a volume which claims to be a contribution 



184 The Coup d'JEtat. 

to history. As for the " nine kinds of slaughter " 
which the eccentric writer discovers that military 
men may unhesitatingly indulge in, I do not think 
that any of these have relation to the melancholy 
events of the 4th of December. 

Those events are deeply to be deplored ; but 
they arose out of accidental circumstances. No one 
has ever attempted to defend them ; and they ought 
not to be exaggerated, either for the purpose of ex- 
citing the sympathy of nations, or for the sake of 
blackening political enemies. There was no wanton 
massacre of the people, as has been asserted ; there 
were sad mistakes, and people ran into danger not- 
Avithstanding the warnings that were distributed 
everywhere — for placards were upon the walls in 
every direction, entreating every one to stay at home. 
There were insurgents, there were barricades, there 
was firing upon the soldiers ; there was therefore a 
necessity for martial law to be enforced ; but the 
Emperor is not chargeable either with the wild 
excesses of the soldiery, or the credulity of the 
Minister of Police. 

The Parisians, even at the height of their excite- 
ment, did not hold the Prince-President responsible 
for these deplorable consequences ; neither had he 
the least apprehension of being the object of vindic- 
tive feelings. So far from entertaining any personal 
fear, his calm self-possession was never more con- 
spicuous than during these eventful clays. I will 
only mention one corroborative circumstance in 
proof of this. 

On the fourth night after the coup d'etat, my 
daughter and myself were present at a ball, given 
by the Duchess of Hamilton in honour of the Prince 



Groundless Fabrications. 185 

President, at the Hotel Bristol, Place Vendome. At 
ten o'clock precisely, the President entered the ball- 
room, accompanied only by Count Bacciochi, when a 
quadrille was formed ; the Prince dancing with the 
Duchess of Hamilton, Lady Poltimore and the Duke 
of Hamilton being the vis-a-vis. The second quad- 
rille soon followed ; when the Prince chose the Prin- 
cess Mathilde as his partner, Lord Poltimore and 
Lady Cowley making the vis-a-vis. 

The Prince appeared perfectly cool and collected ; 
he conversed with a great many persons, but more 
particularly with Lord Cowley, who had only 
arrived in Paris that morning, to fill his post of 
British Ambassador. Lords Francis Gordon, Strang- 
ford, Halliburton, Ernest Bruce, with their wives, 
were present ; together with many foreigners of 
distinction. The instant the clock struck twelve, 
Count Bacciochi, in a low whisper, said that the 
Prince's carriage was ready ; whereupon the Duke 
of Hamilton, taking two wax-candles, conducted his 
imperial guest down-stairs, and handed him into 
his plain brougham. On the return of the Duke 
to the ball-room, he observed to several friends 
who had collected round him, "How extraordinary! 
There were neither military nor police in the court- 
yard of the hotel, to protect the President in case of 
danger." In fact, the Prince returned at midnight, 
without an escort, to the Elysee, in a one-horse 
brougham. 

And this is the man whom Mr Kinglake, in his 
account of the coup d'etat, has insinuated to be 
constantly occupied in guarding himself against 
attacks from assassination, and living in fear and 
trembling, 



186 Camp Life during the Peninsular War, 

Let those who have been influenced by these 
calumnies, consider what have been the results of 
the coup d'etat upon the position and prospects of 
France. The nation enjoys greater prosperity and 
happiness, and its power and influence are stronger 
and more undisputed than ever in Europe ; while 
the Emperor of the French holds a firm and lofty 
place amongst the monarchs of the world, in right 
of the wisdom with which he governs the people 
and develops the resources of the country. 

Camp Life during the Peninsular War. — 
There was a wide difference in the camp life of the 
English and French armies. 

An English soldier in camp appeared to be the 
most uncomfortable of mortals ; there was no plan 
laid down for his recreation, or the employment of 
his leisure hours, and you might see him either 
brushing his clothes or cleaning his accoutrements, 
or else sitting on his knapsack, smoking his pipe to 
pass the time. We had no large tent wherein the 
men could congregate to converse, read, or other- 
wise amuse themselves, and when the weather was 
wet, they huddled together in small tents, where the 
atmosphere was worse than that of the Black Hole 
of Calcutta. The pipeclay system of tormenting 
our men, by requiring them to keep their kits clean, 
and punishing them by extra drills if the firelock or 
belts were not as spotless as on parade at the Horse 
Guards, was (to say the least of it) extremely 
injudicious. 

The French soldiers, on the other hand, had 
small tents, amply large enough for five or six men, 
or. in default of these, they constructed tents with 



Canvjj Life during the Peninsular War. 187 

earth, trees, and rushes. Streets were formed, with 
squares ; places of amusement were planned, and 
large trenches were dug in every direction, to drain 
the ground thoroughly. The officers, if near a town, 
took possession of the best lodgings, for the con- 
venience of coffee-houses and kitchens : but, al though 
they had every luxury they could afford or procure, 
their motto was, "A la guerre commie la guerre." On 
entering a French camp you saw as much order as 
in the best regulated towns. Gendarmes kept strict 
watch over the soldiers, a fire-brigade was always 
in readiness, and everything was arranged methodi- 
cally. The dress of the French soldier was not 
only loose and comfortable, but easily cleaned, and 
his knapsack was remarkable for its convenience. 
A cantiniere was attached to the camp, and supplied 
the officers and men with wine and spirits according 
to regulations. 

The French soldier marched quicker than the 
English, both in advance and retreat ; and after a 
victory by our troops few prisoners were taken. 
The Duke of Wellington, with all his wonderful fore- 
sight and genius, could never get at the secret why 
so few stragglers were met with in following the 
enemy ; whereas at Burgos, after our raising the 
siege of that town, indescribable confusion arose, and 
nearly half the English army were either left behind 
or taken prisoners by Soult and Clauzel. 

The system of outposts in the French army was 
on a different footing from ours. Before the enemy, 
the French sentinel was relieved every hour ; where- 
as our soldiers remained on duty two hours ! — 
the extra hour caused great fatigue, and in cold 
weather induced sleep. A troop of the 11th Light 



188 Camp Life during the Peninsular War. 

Dragoons on duty in front — that is, at the extreme 
vedette, in the immediate presence of the enemy — 
was once caught napping. The French officer in 
command, observing the bad guard kept, ordered 
forward a sergeant and five men, who entered our 
lines and found Captain Wood and his men fast 
asleep ; when the dragoons awoke, they were com- 
pelled to surrender themselves prisoners of war. 
Now, if the vedette had been changed every hour, this 
disgraceful catastrophe would not have occurred. 
Doubtless all these matters are better arranged 
now : the Crimean war ought to have taught us 
many valuable lessons, and our experience, so dearly 
bought, should be made profitable for the future. 
Were we to take a leaf out of the French book of 
tactics, instead of following the German school in 
all its pedantries, our armies would be better pre- 
pared for active service than they now are. 

I may here mention an incident which befell 
Captain George Mansel, E.N., who related it to me. 
He was deputed by the Duke of Wellington to ac- 
company the French army, under Marshal Clauzel, 
to the siege of Constantine. The expedition proved 
a failure, owing to causes which it is superfluous to 
mention ; the French army raised the siege, and 
commenced a most disastrous retreat. It happened 
that Mansel on one occasion slept in the tent occu- 
pied by the commanding-officer of the Engineers, 
who showed our countryman every possible atten- 
tion. This French officer was rather loquacious, 
and amons; other things he said that the defence of 
Burgos had been intrusted to him by General 
Clauzel when it was attacked by the army of Wel- 
lington, and that the British army had been foiled 



Camp Life during the Peninsular War. 189 

on that occasion. Mansel, like a brave and gallant 
Englishman, defended the honour of the British 
arms, and at the same time begged to know the 
causes that led to the disaster. The French officer 
replied, " I have seen a great deal of English 
soldiers, and better and finer troops do not exist ; 
with the exception of your Engineers, whom 1 consi- 
der the worst of any troops I have ever met with. It 
was to them your defeat before Burgos was owing." 

When Captain Mansel returned home, he was 
invited by Lord Bute to pass some clays with 
him, and to meet the Duke of Wellington. The 
Duke naturally asked the gallant Captain several 
questions respecting the retreat, and said, " Clanzel 
is the best general, perhaps, that the French have ; 
I never, during the period he commanded the 
French army, caught him napping.''' Captain 
Mansel then requested permission to relate what 
had occurred in the tent of the commanding-officer 
of Engineers. " By all means let us hear it," re- 
plied the Duke. Captain M. then stated what the 
French officer had said ; when his Grace observed, 
"There is some truth in what the Frenchman 
asserted ; but it was not entirely the fault of our 
Engineers. We were almost .destitute of siege- 
cannon at Burgos ; Ave had few tools, and many 
things requisite for a siege were wanting. It is true 
that the officer who commanded the artillery in the 
rear was removed from his post, but Captain Dixon, 
who succeeded him, proved a good officer : a stop- 
page of communications necessitated our retreat." 

The great Duke was in this, as in most cases, 
correct. Had he acted on his own responsibility, 
the siege of Burgos would never have been at- 



190 A Foraging Party on the Adour. 

tempted ; or would have been attempted with 
proper tools, at a later period, and under more 
favourable circumstances. 

A Foeaging- Party on the Adoue. — Early in 
the spring of 1814 I was ordered to proceed with 
Lord James Hay on a foraging expedition. Our 
party consisted of fifty men, armed with firelocks, 
and mounted upon mules. It would be impossible 
to give any adequate idea of our zigzag march and 
our wanderings in the dark ; at last, after proceed- 
ing in tolerably good order for about nine hours, we 
came in sight of a village called Dax, consisting of 
a few pretty houses, about a mile distant. At break 
of day, wanting our accustomed breakfast, we deter- 
mined to seek quarters there ; but gave directions 
to the non-commissioned officers to prevent the 
slightest disorder or pillage. My batman, Proycl, 
who spoke nearly every European language, ad- 
vanced into the market-place with a saucepan, which 
he had brought with him from camp, and began 
striking it with a thick stick with all his might. 
The noise awoke the inhabitants, some of whom 
approached our party, and, after much persuasion, 
one of them was prevailed upon by Lord James to 
show us the Mayor's house ; and presently this per- 
sonage, " dressed in a little brief authority," made 
his appearance. We told him that one object of our 
coming was to procure provisions for ourselves, and 
forage for our horses and mules, but that everything 
supplied should be paid for. The Mayor regarded 
us with suspicion, until Proyd entered with our 
teacups and boiling water, and asked in good French 
for some plates for " my lord." The title of " my 



A Foraging Party on the Aclour. 1.01 



lord " electrified the Mayor, and in less than a quar- 
ter of an hour the whole of his family appeared, aiid 
offered us and our men everything that we required. 

With a heart full of thankfulness I sat down to 
an excellent breakfast of cold meat, eggs, coffee, and 
bread and butter ; and, to crown all, one of the 
daughters of the Mayor, an extremely elegant young 
lady, entered the room with some delicious comfi- 
tures, of which she said her mother begged our 
acceptance. The wife of the Mayor soon after joined 
us, and, to our astonishment and delight, began con- 
versing with us in English. She said that she had 
been brought up in England, and that her mother 
was English, but had left her native land for France 
when she was about sixteen. 

Having refreshed ourselves, and seen that the 
horses and mules had been properly groomed and 
baited, we gave orders to return, and our troop put 
itself again in motion : the animals being laden with 
straw, Indian corn, and forage of every description, 
for which we paid the Mayor in Spanish dollars. 
After we had marched some hours, finding that, 
hampered as we were, we could not march well in 
the dark, we determined to halt at the first village we 
fell in with, and continue our march the next morn- 
ing to Bayonne ; whence we were then about eight 
leagues distant. We soon struck a little bourg 
about two leagues from Dax, but could see no one 
stirring in the place : in fact, it seemed deserted. 
However, Proyd, ever alert, heard a dog bark in one 
of the houses, a sign that the inhabitants were hid- 
ing. We knocked first at one house and then at 
another, until our patience began to be exhausted ; 
when a sleepy-looking fellow popped his head out of 



192 A Foraging Party on the Adour. 



r» window and asked us in a most insolent manner 
what we wanted. While we were parleying with 
him, one of the sergeants, an active young fellow, 
scrambled up to the window from whence this 
Caliban was jeering at us, bolted down the stairs, 
opened the front door, and admitted us into the 
house. It turned out to ba the cabaret of the vil- 
lage, and it was the landlord who had just greeted us 
in this abusive manner. He w T as evidently an in- 
veterate enemy of the British, for he would neither 
give us any information as to how our men were 
to be billeted, nor show us even common civility. 
However, finding our host so contumacious, we 
ordered him to be placed in durance vile, determin- 
ing to carry him off to head-quarters as a prisoner. 
The next morning a council of war was held to 
devise a plan for transporting our prisoner. Proyd, 
the Figaro of the party, suggested placing him upon 
a mule ; but the question was, how to get him 
mounted on the back of one at so early an hour in 
the morning' without creating a disturbance in the 
village. Ikiy, however, had no scruples on that 
score, and gave instructions to have the prisoner 
tied upon one of the animals. Proyd, approaching 
the follow from behind, threw one of the regimental 
bags over his head, and with the aid of his comrades 
fastened him securely on a mule. When all was 
arranged to our satisfaction, the man began to bel- 
low, and his neighbour, finding we were in earnest, 
came out and begged for mercy ; but to no purpose, 
for we were determined to make an example of the 
disobliging brute : so off we started with our prisoner. 
We arrived in camp just in time to rerjort the 
result of our expedition to the commanding-officer 



General Sir Warren Peacocke. 193 

who was much amused at our bringing, in addition 
to an ample supply of forage, &c, an impertinent 
fellow, with his head tied up in a bag. The next 
morning, after a severe lecture, our prisoner received 
his conge, and was desired to return home and tell 
his friends that we differed entirely from other sol- 
diers who had occupied the country, for we paid 
ready money for everything we required and ex- 
pected to be treated with civility by the inhabitants. 
A few days afterwards, another foraging party was 
organised, and on their arrival at the same village 
every door was opened, and provisions, corn, hay, &c, 
offered in abundance, while the greatest civility 
was paid to our men. The proprietor of the inn was 
foremost in proffering his services, and expressed his 
regret for what had occurred before, stating that the 
cause of it was that, in the dark, the inhabitants 
mistaking us for a body of men belonging to the 
Spanish army, had fled ; as a party of soldiers be- 
longing to that nation had a short time before 
robbed them of their pigs, poultry, and linen, and 
ill-treated their wives and daughters. After this, our 
soldiers, when on foraging expeditions, were ordered 
to dress in uniform, to show the country-people that 
they belonged to the British army. 

General Sir Warren Peacocke, Governor of 
Lisbon. — During the British occupation, the Go- 
vernor of Lisbon was Sir Warren Peacocke, a soldier 
who enjoyed the utmost confidence of the Duke of 
Wellington. This officer was born in 1776, and 
when at school was given a company in a regiment 
his uncle had raised. He subsequently entered the 
Coldstream Guards, and was at the time of his 

N 



194 General Sir warren Jr'eacoc fee. 

death one of the oldest general officers in the Bri- 
tish army. While at Lisbon, his duties were arduous 
in the extreme. He had to reconcile the Portu- 
guese Government and authorities to a military 
occupation, which they always looked upon with 
suspicion ; and he had to control and direct all 
the transport service of the navy : but his most 
onerous labours were in connexion with the many 
questions arising with regard to the army. Lisbon, 
at the period to which I refer, was a sort of hospital 
for the army of the Peninsula, whilst it was at the 
same time the basis of those glorious operations 
the effect of which was to drive the French out of 
Spain, and General Peacocke was referred to on all 
occasions by the Portuguese and English. 

No small part of his duties consisted in dealing 
with the friends and relations of officers in our army, 
a crowd of whom came over from England, each 
with a special object in view. Some wanted a 
prolongation of leave for a son or brother ; others 
that their friends or relations might be permitted 
to return to England on account of urgent domestic 
affairs ; while with the rest the excuse was, that ill 
health, owing to change of climate, ought to influ- 
ence the Governor to permit some stalwart soldier 
to visit his native land. To all these importuni- 
ties Sir Warren was wont to reply, that " he could 
not, on any account, permit domestic affairs to 
interfere with the duties of the service." Whilst 
tormented with these petty annoyances, he was 
constantly engaged in the most important corre- 
spondence with the British Government, the Duke 
of Wellington, and the Portuguese officials. Many 
of the services he rendered his country at that time 



General Sir Warren Peacoche. 195 



were such as cannot be transferred to the pages 
of history, being of the most delicate and confi- 
dential character. Throughout all, Sir Warren was 
remarkable for his urbanity of manner, his untiring 
business habits, and a keen judgment, which made 
him alike an accomplished statesman and an in- 
telligent soldier. 

Some of the complaints made to the gallant 
officer were frivolous in the extreme. On one 
occasion an assistant-surgeon complained, in no 
measured terms, of the quarters allotted to him, 
stating that he was obliged to sleep in a pigsty ; 
upon which Sir Warren inquired of oue of his 
subalterns if he knew anything of the said pigsty 
The answer was, that the quarters which the sur- 
geon complained of were very good, in fact, better 
than the majority of the officers occupied. " Oh, 
then, sir," said Peacocke, turning to the injured 
medico, " if you are a prince in disguise, declare 
yourself ; but if you are only what your diploma 
states you to be, I consider the quarters you have 
quite good enough." 

Lisbon, owing to the continental war then raging, 
was the only port open to the English, and thither 
our countrymen and women flocked , in fact, Lis- 
bon was then what Paris and Eome are now, and 
some of our most celebrated men show there to 
advantage. It was there that the immortal poet 
Byron first touched foreign soil, and where some of 
his daring, powerful poetry was written ; he became 
the idol of the women, and the lionising he un- 
derwent there might have made him exceedingly 
vain, for he was admired wherever he went. His 
favourite resort was the opera, where most of the 



196 General Sir Warren Peacockc. 

young men of fashion in Lisbon congregated in the 
evening. He was generally accompanied by his 
friends, Dan Mackinnon, Hervey Aston, Colin 
Campbell, and William Burrell. The opera at 
Lisbon was its chief attraction, and it was there 
that the celebrated singers, Catalini, Collini, Naldi, 
and Ambrogetti, with Presle, Angiolini, Deshayes, 
and the rest of the corps de ballet riveted the at- 
tention of hearers and beholders ; and thence those 
artistes were engaged for the London Operahouse. 
Byron well describes these " amusing vagabonds," as 
he calls them, and their English admirers : — 

" Well may the nobles of our present race 
Watch each distortion of a Naldi's face ! 
Well may they smile on Italy's buffoons, 
And worship Catalini's pantaloons. 

While Gayton bounds before the enraptured looks 
Of hoary marquises and stripling dukes, 
Let high-born ladies eye the lively Presle 
Twirl her light limbs and spurn the heedless veil ; 
Let Angiolini bare her breast of snow, 
Wave the white arm, and point the pliant toe ; 
Collini trill her love-inspiring song, 
Strain her fair neck, and charm the listening throng." 

During the Avar, Colonel Gould, the factotum of 
the English ladies patronesses, and manager of 
her Majesty's Theatre in London, went once a 
year to Lisbon to hire his troupe ; as Waters, 
Ebers, Laporte, and others, subsequently went to 
Paris and ena;ao;ed sino-ers and dancers. 

I have been informed that the Duke of Wellino-- 
ton, during the Peninsular War, visited Lisbon only 
once, remaining three days at that town, at the 
Palace of Necessidades ; and on this occasion he 
was received in the most enthusiastic manner by 
the Portuguese and English. Unfortunately, Marshal 



Frank Russell at the Battle of the Pyrenees. 197 

Beresford and our Minister, Sir Charles Stuart, 
afterwards Lord Stuart de Kothsay, were at this 
time at variance, and hated each other most cor- 
dially. The Marshal wanted to lodge our great 
commander at his owai house, and thereby mono- 
polise his society ; but to no purpose, as the Duke 
went to the palace. The Duke did not disguise his 
displeasure at the inefficiency exhibited by many of 
the superior officers in the British army then at 
Lisbon, and sent several of them back to England, 
saying, " It is not my fault that they are sent 
home, but the fault of those who sent them out." 

Whilst the Duke was insisting on Sir War- 
ren Peacocke's acting with severity against the 
skulkers from the army, these gentlemen were 
complaining bitterly of the Governor for not al- 
lowing them to shirk their duties, alleging that, 
on account of " ill health," (unfortunately a com- 
mon excuse in the service,) they ought to be 
allowed to remain at Lisbon to recruit it : this 
" recruiting of health," be it understood, generally 
consisting of a minimum of work, combined with a 
maximum of dissipation. Sir Warren was so dis- 
gusted with the amount of extra work and anxiety 
entailed upon him by these useless officers, that he 
several times requested the Duke to find some one 
to supply his place as Governor ; but the answer 
he generally received was, "You are too valuable 
here to be replaced by any one. I cannot possibly 
spare you." 

Frank Eussell at the Battle of the Pyre- 
nees. — After the battle of Vittoria our army marched 
to the Pyrenees, where took place those operations 



198 Frank Russell at the Battle of the Pyrenees. 

in the passes, and that brilliant succession of vic- 
tories, which have given historical character to the 
names of Picton, Lowry Cole, Adam, Colville, and a 
hundred others. At that time nothing was thought 
impossible for British soldiers ; after those victories 
the French soldiers were not to be compared with 
the English, although our adversaries were com- 
manded by Soult. From Torres Vedras to the Bid- 
assoa we carried everything before us, and we were 
only momentarily checked at the battle of the Pyre- 
nees, where Lord Wellington found that the French 
were not disposed to allow us to invade their 
country without a severe struggle. At that memor- 
able battle, Soult made a desperate effort to drive 
us back again into Spain ; but he found to his cost 
that the fiercer he fought the more desperate was 
the resistance he had to encounter, till at length he 
saw it was impossible to withstand our invincible 
phalanx. 

One of the heroes of that bloody day was Frank 
Russell, " the Pride of Woburn Abbey," whose char- 
acter it would be as difficult to overestimate as it 
would be to give an idea of his chivalrous bearing 
in presence of the enemy. He possessed all the 
requisites for a good soldier. Of noble birth, good 
looking, and with a splendid figure, he was valiant 
in the extreme. He was gazetted in the 7th 
Fusiliers at the age of sixteen, and forthwith sent 
with them to Spain, where he followed the fortunes 
of his corps up to the time of the battle of the 
Pyrenees. One of the most furious attacks made 
by Soult on our position at this celebrated conflict 
was directed on the left wing of the British army. 
The Fusiliers were posted on the right, and 



Frank Russell at the Battle of the Pyrenees. 199 

ordered to maintain themselves against all odds, 
and not to budge a foot. The French General being 
determined to turn our right, sent an overwhelming 
force against Frank's regiment, which was posted 
against a mountain wall. The Fusiliers defended 
themselves with obstinate courage, but their Colonel, 
for some reason which was never explained, declared 
it prudent to order a retreat, though his line was 
unbroken. Frank Russell, however, shouted out, 
" Not yet, Colonel," and with the colours of his regi- 
ment mounted the wall and cheered our men on , 
the French meanwhile renewing their attack with 
redoubled vigour. During this fierce struggle, how- 
ever, our hero kept his position, till the fierce energy 
with which the French had been fighting began to 
cool : for "Wellington had meanwhile broken Soult's 
centre, and the retreat of the French forces was 
ordered. Before Eussell quitted his post of honour, 
Lord Wellington with his staff happened to pass by 
the wall, and saw Eussell standing on the wall, hold- 
ing the colours of his regiment, which were riddled 
with bullet holes. On the following clay, when the 
gallant young officer's conduct was reported to our 
great commander, he exclaimed, " Ah ! there 's no- 
thing like blood." 

The chivalrous bearing of Frank Russell affords 
a memorable example of the feeling which actuated 
young officers at the time of which I am now speak- 
ing. As a man of the world, Frank was a great 
favourite with the fair sex, and enjoyed in a remark- 
able degree the confidence of his friends ; for his 
temper and disposition were eminently sociable, and 
he was noted for his kindness of heart. He died at 
ifcn early age, holding a company of the Guards, and 



200 Hunting in the Pyrenees, 1813, 1814. 

was tmiversally regretted. A pretty compliment 
was paid to him by the Duchess of York, who pre- 
sented him with a ring, made by La wrier, the jeweller 
in St James's Street, having for a motto, " None but 
the brave deserve the fair." 

Hunting in the Pyrenees, 1813, 1814. — The 
Commissary-General, Marsden, who belonged to 
head-quarters, succeeded in collecting from England 
a kennel of splendid hounds. On the Marquis of 
Worcester's (the late Duke of Beaufort) leaving the 
army, he promised to send some of his father's dogs 
to Marsden ; other gentlemen followed this noble- 
man's example, and before we crossed the Bidassoa 
the pack was complete, and in fine condition. The 
hunting in the Pyrenees reminded me of my native 
Wales ; it was all up hill and down dale, and for that 
reason, when a fox was found he was seldom if ever 
killed. The best riders belonging to the hunt were 
the officers of the 14th and 16th Dragoons, who were, 
as a rule, well mounted. I have seen at a meet in 
the Pyrenees about two hundred officers assembled, 
some (as I have said) well mounted, but the majority 
on "screws," ponies, or even mules — a strange con- 
trast to the Quorn and Pytchley gatherings. The 
greatest character of all was Lascelles, on his immense 
horse, on which he used to delight to race up hill 
for a lark ; and many were the scrapes he got into 
with the whipper-in for riding over the bounds. 

One fine morning in October 1313, Eeynard 
took it into his head to cross the Bidassoa, and 
the dogs and huntsman, heedless of danger, fol- 
lowed. The notes of the hounds and the cheering 
of the huntsman alarmed a French drum-major and 



Dysentery in the Peninsula. 201 

some twenty boys whom he was instructing in a 
secluded spot on the banks of the river. Instead of 
showing fight, the drum-major with his young pupils 
scampered off; the dogs meanwhile, accompanied 
by the huntsman, were in full cry, and shortly after- 
wards killed a fine dog fox. The field had remained 
on our side of the river, enjoying the sport without 
incurring any danger ; when all of a sudden the 
enemy, wondering what the deuce we were about, 
came down in force, with a battery of field-pieces, 
and opened fire, which made us all scamper off as if 
old Nick had been at our heels. Marsden, however, 
advanced to the water's edge, and with his white 
pocket handkerchief as a flag of truce, asked per- 
mission of the French officer in command to cross 
and explain what we were doing. This request was 
acceded to, and when our gallant foe had heard the 
reasons why we had advanced out of bounds, he 
very graciously permitted the huntsman and dogs 
to recross the river and join us. 

Dysentery in the Peninsula. — Early in the 
year 1812 the Duke of York despatched to the seat 
of war the 3d Battalion of my old regiment. It was 
considered by military men to have been the finest 
in his Majesty's service. All the men, with the 
exception of the grenadier company, were strong, 
active young fellows, but had not seen active service. 
They were conveyed to Cadiz, in men-of-war, and 
arrived there without any accident ; but owing to 
change of diet, and the substituting the horrid wine 
of the country for the porter they had been accus- 
tomed to at home, before the expiration of a few 
weeks, five hundred of these fine fellows died in the 



202 A Daring Exploit. 

hospital at Yizu, and were buried in the church-yard 
there. I mention this to show how careful com- 
manding-officers ought to be to prevent similar con- 
sequences from decimating bodies of fresh troops : 
although warnings of this sort have occurred all 
over the globe. 

On j oining my regiment in the Peninsula, one of 
the grenadiers, a tall and well-built man, was recom- 
mended to me as the best person to employ for 
pitching my tent. This man had been brought up as a 
carpenter, but through some misunderstanding with 
his relations had enlisted. While cutting the trench 
he entered into conversation with me, and said he 
hoped, as I appeared very young and unaccustomed 
to bivouacking, that I would forgive him for being so 
bold as to offer a little salutary advice : which was, 
to drink every morning on rising a small glass of 
brandy or rum, as by so doing rheumatism, dysentery, 
and many other camp disorders, would be prevented. 
He added, with tears in his eyes, that he had lost 
his brother at Yizu, owing to his not following the 
advice he was now giving me. I was so struck with 
the earnest manner of the man that I adopted his 
panacea, and during the whole time that I was in 
camp I never had a day's illness. 

A Daring Exploit. — Among the incidents that 
occurred in the war in Spain, the following will no 
doubt surprise the reader : — In Picton's division in 
the Pyrenees, there was an Irishman of extraordinary 
courage, by name O'Keefe, who was addicted to all sorts 
of irregularities, which brought him more than once 
to the halberds, but who performed a feat worthy of 
the heroes of antiquity. Near the pass of Ronces- 



A Daring Exploit. 203 

valles the French occupied a peak or impregnable 
mountain called the Boar's Head, at the top of which 
a company of the enemy was posted. To drive them 
away appeared impossible ; Picton thought so, and 
determined to invest this natural fort, to prevent 
useless bloodshed. During a reconnaissance, the Gene- 
ral said, in a loud voice, which was overheard by the 
men below, that the French could, if they pleased, 
pelt us away with stones from the top of the moun- 
tain. O'Keefe stepped up, touched his cap, and 
addressed Sir T. Picton thus : " If your honour 
chooses, I will take the hill alone." This speech asto- 
nished all who heard it ; but not the General, who 
had frequently witnessed the daring and intrepidity 
of O'Keefe. " If you do so," replied Sir Thomas, 
" I will report it to Lord Wellington, and I promise 
you your discharge, with a shilling a day for life." 
O'Keefe stole away, having whispered to the com- 
manding-officer of his company to follow him, and 
climbed up the goat path, the English sentinels fir- 
ing at him, thinking he was deserting to the enemy 
O'Keefe having entered the stronghold of the French, 
was received with open arms, as a deserter. He 
then began to play his part, by showing signs of 
imbecility, laughing, dancing, singing, &c. ; so that 
the enemy thought that they had actually received 
a madman instead of a deserter, and told him to 
decamp, as there was not food enough there to feed 
him. During this farce, our men quickly got up 
to the summit, where they found O'Keefe occupying 
the attention of the enemy. They rushed in and 
took possession of this stronghold without losing 
a man. O'Keefe (I believe that was his name) 
received for this act of daring the nomination of 



204 My Soldier-Servant. 

one of the warders of the Tower from the Duke of 
Wellington. 

My Soldier-Servant. — When in Spain with my 
regiment, it fell to my lot to receive from the ranks 
a soldier born in Sicily, of Sicilian parentage, by 
name Proyd. When the Guards occupied Catania, 
this individual, having lost his father and mother, 
was adopted by the regiment, and through the in- 
strumentality of Lord Proby, became a soldier, and 
was inscribed on the muster-roll of the 1st Foot 
Guards. He was an excellent servant, and perhaps 
the best caterer in the army ; for when we were in- 
vading the Pyrenees, he supplied me with every deli- 
cacy, while the army generally was living on salt beef 
and biscuits : in fact, poultry, mutton, and fresh 
bread at my table were the rule, rather than the 
exception. With all these accomplishments, he pos- 
sessed one fault — a too great admiration, unqualified 
with respect, for the charms of the fair sex, and he 
seldom lost an opportunity of stealing a kiss from 
any pretty girl that came in his way. 

On our return from the Peninsula, I took this 
Figaro with me to White Knights, the seat of the 
Duke of Marlborough, where I was invited to spend 
some days. At this charming house I found a great 
number of visitors, among whom were Lord and 
Lady Grenville, Lord and Lady Macclesfield, Mr 
Mathias, the author of the "Pursuits of Literature," 
Lord William Fitzroy, Mr Garlick, and others. It 
happened on the day of my arrival that my servant 
met the maid of Lady Macclesfield on the staircase, 
and without the slightest ceremony he attempted to 
kiss her. The maid, unaccustomed to such behaviour, 



Sir Thomas Styles. 205 

screamed, ran down stairs, and then up again, with 
Proyd close at her heels ; he even followed her into 
her lady's room, where she flew to take refuge. Her 
ladyship, alarmed at seeing a strange man in her room, 
shrieked loudly ; many persons ran to her assistance ; 
and her noble husband, more dead than alive, thinking 
some sad disaster had befallen the Countess, inquired 
with caution, " What is the matter V Her ladyship 
replied in a faint voice, " The man is under the bed." 
Pokers and tongs were seized, and the noble Lord 
made use of his weapons to such purpose that the 
delinquent quietly surrendered. This incident, which 
created great confusion, rendered it necessary that 
the Sicilian should be sent to rejoin his regiment. 
Poor Proyd soon after applied for his discharge, and 
returned to his native land to make love to his own 
countrywomen. 

Sir Thomas Styles. — Poor Sir Thomas Styles, 
who fought with the poet Shelley at Eton, received 
a commission in the 1st Foot Guards. Had it been 
in the time of peace, poor Styles would have shone 
to advantage on parade and at the mess -table ; but 
the active life of a soldier proved too fatiguing for 
him, as will be seen by the following anecdote. 
In course of time he was sent with a detach- 
ment of his regiment to Portugal ; but on his 
arrival at Lisbon, the Guards had left to join the 
army in the neighbourhood of the Pyrenees ; ac- 
cordingly, our young Guardsman received orders to 
march through Portugal and Spain until he came 
up with his regiment. The heat was excessive ; 
and on his falling in with the brigade, poor Styles 
was more dead than alive. All his brother officers 



206 Sir John Elley of the " Blues" 

hastened to congratulate him on his safe arrival 
after so long a march ; but he spoke little, saying, 
that, ever since he had left Lisbon, he had not 
closed his eyes for half-an-hour, and that his health 
was in such a state that he feared he could not lono* 
survive. Observing that something extraordinary 
had happened, he was pressed to be more explicit, 
and to tell what had occurred to make him so 
miserable. He replied, with a very grave counte- 
nance, that the fleas and vermin on the march had 
nearly driven him mad ; and that when the peasant 
girls observed him scratching himself, they would 
laugh, and shaking their petticoats over pails full 
of water, tell hiin how much more they were to be 
pitied than he. Our doctor, Mr Bacot, a very kind 
fellow, anticipating brain fever, placed Styles in his 
camp bed, covered his head with wet towels, and 
desired his batman to watch over his master, and 
not to leave him for an instant. However, the 
servant fell asleep, and during the night poor Styles 
got out of bed, unlocked his trunk where his razors 
were kept, and with one of them deliberately cut 
his throat from ear to ear. 

Sir John Elley of the " Blues." — In my 
former volumes I have had the pleasure of relating 
several anecdotes of this gallant officer ; and in the 
third volume, I mentioned his having commenced 
his military career as a private in the Blues. I 
have received a letter from a gentleman, who knew 
him personally, giving me the following information 
respecting this dashing hero : — " I spent some time 
at Harrowgate with this gallant soldier, whom I 
admired not only for his bravery, but for his 



Sir John Elley of the " Blues." 207 

talents ; he was replete with wit and fun, and full of 
the most interesting anecdotes. On my leaving him, 
he said that he had an old acquaintance residing 
not far from my father's place, whither I was going, 
and he would feel obliged if I would ride over some 
day to a certain toll-bar in the west of Cumberland, 
and deliver a message to his old friend, the sergeant 
who had enlisted him in the Blues. I did not for- 
get a promise which might lead to some anecdotes 
respecting Sir John s early life ; and shortly after 
arriving at home, I mounted mv nag, rode to the 
toll-bar, and saw the old sergeant, who kept the 
turnpike and appeared to be seventy-five years of 
age. When he came to take the toll, he appeared 
much astonished at receiving the message from Sir 
John, and asking after his health said, that it was 
true that he had enlisted him into the Blues, and 
he related the circumstance : — ' The sergeant having 
charge of a recruiting party at Barnet, one fine day 
a tall and respectable-looking young fellow ad- 
dressed him, stating he wanted to enlist ; the 
shilling was therefore given, and on the following 
day the recruit was sent to head-quarters, where he 
was passed and duly enlisted in the Eoyal Guards.' 
The old man being asked what he knew of Sir 
John's antecedents said, that the appearance and man- 
ner of the recruit proved him to have been a gentle- 
man. He declined affirming as to the truth of what 
he had heard ; but added that the report current in 
the regiment after his entering it, was that the 
new recruit had held a cornet's commission in the 
Scots Greys, then quartered at Doncaster ; but 
owing to a misunderstanding with an officer about 
a lady, he had thrown up his commission in dis- 



208 Jack Talbot of the Guards. 

gust, and having spent all his money, enlisted as a 
private in the manner described. In the barrack- 
room he was hail fellow well met with all his com- 
rades, who nevertheless treated him as their superior. 
As a swordsman and rider, he was considered the 
best in the regiment ; and in consequence of his 
gentlemanly deportment, and being a good pen- 
man, he was taken into the adjutant's office, whence 
he was promoted to a commission in the regiment. 
Perhaps the most distinguished service ever per- 
formed by Sir John Elley was in the cavalry en- 
gagement at the battle of Vittoria, when he was 
assistant adjutant-general to the cavalry under the 
immediate command of Sir W Cotton. Sir William 
had given directions to the 3d Light Dragoons to 
charge a superior force of the enemy, which proved 
disastrous ; for the regiment was almost entirely 
cut to pieces. Sir John Elley observing this disas- 
ter, got together as many of the 14th and 16th 
Dragoons as he could, and charged at the head of 
them through the enemy ; thereby saving many of 
the fine fellows who were dispersed and unable to 
act. In the charge he was knocked down, together 
with his horse, the fall breaking his leg ; and al- 
though continually ridden over by friend and foe 
in the -mclce, Elley, nothing daunted, cheered on 
his men to fight for the honour of old England, and 
at last, catching hold of Sergeant Cooper's stirrup, 
was dragged to the rear. 

Jack Talbot of the Guards. — Poor Jack 
Talbot, after leaving Eton, entered the Coldstream 
Guards, and accompanied his regiment to Spain, 
where he evinced great courage, and was foremost in 



Jack Talbot of the Guards. 209 



every fight. Though he possessed many imperfections, 
he was the manliest and kindest of human beings, 
and was the idol of the women ; and their champion, 
also, for he was one of the few men who would 
never hear improper epithets applied to them un- 
der any circumstances, or allow their failings to be 
criticised by those who were in all probability the 
cause of them. There was a charm in Talbot's con- 
versation that I never found in that of any other 
man ; his brave good heart, and love of punch, 
made him an agreeable companion, and many 
friends. When in his cups, or rather bowls, he 
would talk facetiously about his rich father in 
Ireland, Lord Malahide, spending that nobleman's 
money all the time. He was foolishly generous. I 
have often seen him, at a club or in a coffee-house, 
pay for the whole of his friends present ; and his 
liberality to women of all classes was profuse. He 
used to say, " I would rather disoblige my father 
or my best friend than a pretty woman." 

Whether in the Guards' club or at private 
assemblies, you were always sure to find Jack sur- 
rounded by a circle of friends, amused with his 
witty conversation and charmed with his good 
humour. He had always a smile on his face ; in 
fact, everybody acknowledged him as their friend, 
from Beau Brummel to Theodore Hook. 

During his last illness, Alvanley asked the doctor 
of the regiment what he thought of it. The doctor 
replied, " My Lord, he is in a bad way, for I was 
obliged to make use of the lancet this morning." 
" You should have tapped him, doctor," said Lord 
Alvanley ; " for I am sure he has more claret than 
blood in his veins." The late Duke of Beaufort 

o 



210 "Teapot" Cmufurd. 



one day called upon him at his lodgings in Mount 
Street, and found him drinking sherry at breakfast : 
the duke remonstrated with him, saying, " It will be 
the death of you." Talbot replied, '• I get drunk 
every night, and find myself the better for it next 
mornins;." Talbot was a great favourite of the late 
Duke of Cambridge, who frequently called to in- 
quire after his health. Upon one occasion, the cap- 
tain's servant, in answer to the Duke's interroga- 
tions, told His Royal Highness that his master did 
not want to see either doctor or parson, but only 
wished to be left to die in peace. The Duke, with 
sad forebodings, sent Dr Keate to see him ; the 
doctor, on his arrival, found Talbot seated in his 
arm-chair dead, with a bottle of sherry half-empty 
on the table beside him. He was only twenty-seven. 

"Teapot'*' Ckawfurd. — Crawfurd was brought 
up at Eton, and subsequently entered the 10th 
Hussars. He possessed immense strength, was a 
handsome fellow, and his bravery was proverbial. 
His riding to hounds particularly, when a boy at 
Melton Mowbray and Belvoir Castle, was plucky 
in the extreme. He was called " Teapot," because 
of his predilection when at Eton for brewing tea 
in a black pot, which he kept and cherished when 
a soldier ; though some would have it that his 
handsome head looked like those on old-fashioned 
teapots. He was noble-looking to the last day of 
his life, though worn down by disease. As a com- 
panion, he was charming ; his bewitching manner 
found him friends everywhere, and he was courted 
by the dandies and men of fashion. He married 
Lady Barbara Coventry, a very beautiful woman, 



The Guards Club. 211 



with whom he lived happily many years. The 
Prince Eegent was very partial to him ; and on the 
occasion of the 10th Hussars being paraded before 
their departure for Spain, the Prince said to him, 
" Go, my boy, and show the world what stuff you 
are made of. You possess strength, youth, and 
courage ; go, and conquer/' Crawfurd arrived in 
Spain, and his first rencontre with the enemy was 
at Orthes, where he was foremost in the charge, 
and behaved splendidly. A brother of his, equally 
brave, was killed at Waterloo, whilst defending the 
chateau of Hougomont. 

The Guaeds' Club. — In order that my readers 
may understand what I am about to relate, it is 
desirable for me to advert to the causes which 
induced the officers of the Foot Guards to form 
their Club. Circumstances which it is unnecessary 
to enter into had for a long time prevented those 
gallant sons of Mars from carrying out the object 
they had in view. Unseemly broils and quarrels 
often took place in the room at the St James's 
Coffee-house, at the bottom of St James's Street, 
where the officers of the Guards used to congregate, 
and these were caused mainly by the admission of 
(or rather the impossibility of excluding) Irish 
bullies and persons of fashionable exterior but not 
of good birth or breeding. Consequently the officers 
were obliged, on the return of their regiments from 
the Peninsula after the disaster at Corunna, to estab- 
lish a club of their own. Arrangements were made, 
and the Guards' Club was formed, the subscription 
to which was at first only £5 per annum for each 
member. 



212 General Thornton and Theodore Hook 



Among those who first patronised this new 
institution were the Dukes of York, Cambridge, 
and Gloucester, and nearly all the general and 
field officers then in London. The room where the 
meetings of the officers of the Guards used to be 
held at the St James's Coffee-house was a miserable 
little den, the floor sanded over like a tap-room 
now-a-days : a strange contrast to the luxurious 
apartments now occupied by the officers in Pall 
Mall ; but notwithstanding this, among the people 
who used to assemble might be found all the wits 
of the day — Brinsley Sheridan, Jekyll, Wyndham, 
and others, whose choice sayings over their punch 
and pipes would fill a volume. The rules of the 
new Club excluded gambling; and from 1812 till 
1821, when I left it, I cannot recollect any serious 
quarrel occurring among the members, who were 
composed of the best men England could boast of. 
So great was the loyalty that pervaded them, that 
when the trial of Queen Caroline took place, and 
the Times made use of disrespectful language 
towards her, that paper was, at a meeting of the 
Club convened by Sir Henry Hardinge, late Lord 
Hardinge, expelled. Tempora rnutantur et nos 
mutamur in illis. 

General Thornton and Theodore Hook. — On 
the return of the British army from Spain in 1814, 
the Prince Regent, desirous of rewarding the per- 
sonal associates of the Duke of "Wellington, decided 
on removing the Generals of the Guards, and giving 
their places to officers of the Duke's staff who 
ranked as Colonels. The Generals were mostly 
either useless and decrepit veterans, or officers whoso 



The Heroic Lady Waldegrave. 213 

ideas of service consisted in attending as little as 
possible to their regiments, and giving the balance 
of their time to pleasure. One of them, General 
Thornton, was afflicted with the idea that of all 
persons in the world he was the only one who 
understood the art of waltzing. In fact, it was quite 
a mania with him, and he might be seen at nearly 
every party of note, making himself exceedingly 
ridiculous by teaching young ladies to waltz : this 
dance having only shortly before come into fashion. 
Theodore Hook gave him the sobriquet of the 
" waltzing General ; " this occasioned a violent 
altercation between them at a ball in Portman 
Square, where, it is said, the General received a 
more personal affront from Hook : which, however, 
the soldier did not resent according to the then 
received notions of honour, by calling him out. 
The inquiry into this affair by a committee of the 
other officers of the Guards, no doubt caused the 
sweeping change proposed by the Prince Eegent ; 
it was found that General Thornton had been 
guilty of cowardice in not demanding immediate 
satisfaction of Hook, and he was therefore desired 
to quit the regiment forthwith. His resignation, 
and the comments on it at the time, paved the way 
to the proposed changes in command ; and when 
Hook heard that the companies had been given to 
the Duke's Colonels, he said, " I rejoice to hear that 
they have adopted the Wellington over-alls, and dis- 
carded their inexpressibles." These Colonels were 
ever after called the " Wellington over-alls." 

The Hekoic Lady Waldegrave. — When the 
British army was about to enter France, I was 



214 Colonel, alias "Jemmy," Cochrane. 

struck with the beauty and attainments of the 
chivalrous Lady Waldegrave, who accompanied her 
lord throughout the war. Her conduct was the 
theme of the army, and she won universal praise 
and admiration. She was a perfect heroine. 

Since the peace, I have had the honour to receive 
invitations to her house in the Champs-Elysees. 
She used to speak of her campaigns with the same 
energy that an old soldier would talk of battles 
wherein he had distinguished himself, and would 
tell you of the innumerable risks she had been 
exposed to in the several charges of cavalry which 
her husband had led. She felt much, she used to 
say, for those poor fellows who were left wounded 
on the ground, and her description of their suffer- 
ings was so natural and touching that it frequently 
brought tears into the eyes of those who heard her. 
The heroine was nearly taken prisoner upon one occa- 
sion; but, upon presenting her pocket-pistol at the 
breast of the French cavalry soldier who menaced 
her, he dropped his sword, and suffered her to escape. 

The Countess of Waldegrave was not only young 
but beautiful ; she had a splendid figure, and was 
one of the best riders I ever saw. She was not at 
all masculine in her style ; her voice and manner 
of speaking were remarkable for sweetness and 
grace. I cannot hope to see her like again. 

Colonel, alias "Jemmy," Cochrane of the 
Guards. — This gentleman was, in the fullest sense 
of the word, fearless — in fact, he dared danger ; yet, 
although so brave, he was an amiable and quiet 
man, and an enemy to every species of disorder. 
Looking at him, one would have thought that he 



Mr Corneivall and the Provost-Sergeant. 215 

was fit only for a drawing-room, as he had most 
delicate hands and feet ; but his figure was perfect 
symmetry, and his strength was prodigious. He 
had neither vanity nor ambition, and was a firm 
friend to all his comrades. 

Fifty years since, my lamented friend was sent to 
Bristol with a recruiting party of the 3d Guards. Fre- 
quent quarrels arose between the soldiers and sailors 
at that place ; and upon one occasion he observed a 
mob of brutal fellows ill-treating his recruiting-ser- 
geant. Eegardless of the immense odds against him, 
he ran to the rescue of the sergeant, who lay bleeding 
on the ground, and, alone, attacked the furious mob 
that surrounded them. Every blow he dealt brought 
one of his adversaries to the ground, till at length 
they ran away right and left, leaving him master of 
the field. I was told by a gentleman who arrived 
on the ground a few minutes after this unequal 
fight, that he saw three men unable to move, owing 
to the punishment they had received : — one had his 
jaw broken, another his shoulder dislocated, and 
the third was so frightfully disfigured that his own 
mother would not have known him. 

"Jemmy" Cochrane married a lady near Bath, 
where he resided many years, and died a lieutenant- 
general. 

Me Cornewall and the Provost-Sergeant. — 
A large army is accompanied, not only by the sut- 
lers and others who make their living by so doing, 
but by curious or scientific men, who seek to ac- 
quire either materials for small talk or solid in- 
formation useful to the world at large. Our army 
in the Peninsula was not an exception to the prac- 



216 21 r Cornewall and the Provost-Sergeant. 

tice, and many wealthy and educated men set out 
from England to follow its fortunes ; but Lord 
Wellington set his face against all these intruders, 
with the exception of Mr Cornewall, who was fa- 
voured with his especial patronage. 

This gentleman, the eldest son of the Bishop of 
Hereford, having letters of introduction to his Lord- 
ship, on arriving at Lisbon, provided himself with 
horses, &c, and, thus equipped, reached the head- 
quarters of the army in the Pyrenees. He was 
present at all the battles, down to that of Toulouse, 
and upon all occasions he exhibited before the 
enemy the greatest sang froicl. At Toulouse Lord 
Wellington requested Cornewall to be more careful 
of his person, saying, " If you are killed or wounded, 
the army will not pity you ; for you are unneces- 
sarily courting danger.'" " Well, my Lord," replied 
Cornewall, '" 1 think the odds are in my favour now; 
having up to this moment escaped being hit, I care 
not for what may happen.' - ' 

Cornewall happened to dine at head-quarters that 
dav, and when returning home at a late hour, he 
saw a soldier suspended by the neck from a pair 
of halberds. He naturally hastened to the spot, 
where he found the provost-sergeant and a few 
soldiers and peasants ; and, on inquiring what it all 
meant, the sergeant replied, " Sir, the man you see 
hanging there has been found guilty of robbing 
and ill-treating some of these poor peasants, and 
was sentenced to be hanged by a drum-head court- 
martial, and there he is expiating his crime." Corne- 
wall went the next morning to bead-quarters, 
and related to Lord Wellington what he had seen • 
upon which our illustrious hero said, "Discipline 



Arma Virumque Cano. 217 

must he maintained at any cost, or my soldiers 
may become a rabble of thieves." " True, my 
Lord," replied Cornewall, " but the provost-marshal's 
power appears to me to be too great ; for he acts as 
judge and executioner, without the culprit having 
time to appeal for mercy." Lord Wellington re- 
plied, " My orders are peremptory on that score ; 
and I would recommend you to be careful not to 
get into the provost-sergeant's clutches, or you will 
inevitably be strung up." " Thank you, my Lord, 
for the hint. I will never more trust myself within 
a hundred miles of such danger ; for I would rather 
be riddled with the enemy's bullets than be placed 
between a pair of halberds." 

Arma Virumque Cano. — Towards the close of 
the continental war, viz., in 1814, the militia of 
that epoch were full of military ardour. The Mar- 
quis of Buckingham, who was enormously fat, and 
not unlike the pictures which are represented of 
Falstaff, volunteered, in conjunction with his friend 
Sir Watkin Williams Wynne, to take their regi- 
ments, the Buckinghamshire and Flintshire Militia, 
to the seat of war. Permission was granted them 
to join the Duke of Wellington's army, and off 
they started for Bordeaux. But they arrived " a 
day after the fair," for the treaty of peace had 
been signed by the allied sovereigns ; so, as the 
King of France with forty thousand men 

" Marched up a hill, and then marched down again," 

our patriotic warriors were obliged to retrace their 
steps without having fired a shot at the enemy. 
Before they re-embarked for their native land, 



Anna Virumque Cano. 



nowever, they took good care to impress upon the 
inhabitants of Bordeaux their value as soldiers, by 
parading their battalions with all the pomp and 
circumstance of war, both in the morning and at 
noon. Those for whose benefit this spectacle was 
intended never failed attending these military 
parades ; not with the idea of gaining any hints as 
to evolutions, &c, but to gaze on the commanding 
officers, whom they denominated, " Les boeufs-gras 
anglais." The militia regiments appeared but a 
sorry sight in comparison with British veterans 
who had marched through Portugal and Spain, 
fighting a hundred battles, and afterwards re- 
mained some time at Bordeaux, where they gained 
the respect of the inhabitants by their orderly con- 
duct and manly bearing. Unfortunately, too, our 
militiamen did not conduct themselves in a be- 
coming manner , for, delighted at the cheapness of 
the wine and brandy, and happening to be officered 
by men incapable of looking after them properly, 
when off duty they were constantly tipsy, and 
getting into all sorts of scrapes and broils with the 
inhabitants ; so much so, that their conduct was 
reported to the Commander-in-Chief, who ordered 
them home without delay. 

The wine-merchants, who had not done badly 
during the stay of our warlike friends in Bordeaux, 
persuaded the Marquis and the Welsh baronet, on 
the eve of their departure, into buying a quantity 
of stuff they designated claret. Proud of their 
purchase, they had it carefully shipped ; and when 
it arrived in due course at London, it was stowed 
away in the cellars of Stowe and Wynstay. Orders 
were eventually given to have the precious liquid 



Sir Jerry Coghlan. 219 

bottled ; but when the casks were tapped it was 
found that an acetous fermentation had taken 
place, converting the " delicate Bordeaux wine " 
into very bad vinegar. The two heroes, doubly 
disappointed of the wine they had bought and the 
honours they hoped to win, commenced legal pro- 
ceedings against the vendors of the liquor ; but 
they were non-suited, and had to pay costs, 
amounting to a considerable sum. 

Sir Jerry Coghlan. — Sir Jeremiah Coghlan's 
name, and the daring acts performed by him, are 
familiar to every naval man. Beginning life as a 
cabin-boy on board a trading sloop, running be- 
tween Cork and Neath, Coghlan was treated by the 
Captain in a most inhuman manner. The brutality 
of this man becoming unbearable, Jerry determined 
on quitting the vessel at Neath, but was caught by 
the police, and brought before one of the magistrates 
of the county, a relation of the author. The boy 
said that, owing to the cruel conduct of his mother, 
he had been obliged to leave home, and went to 
Cork, where he was bound as cabin-boy to the 
master who had treated him so ill. Under these 
circumstances, he was allowed to leave the sloop, 
and obtained employment in Neath as a bricklayer's 
lad in the building of a few houses which were in 
course of erection on the Parade. Not contented 
with this mode of gaining a living, he offered his 
services as ordinary seaman to a captain about to 
sail for Plymouth ; he was engaged, and arrived at 
that port, where a terrible storm was raging. Cogh- 
lan went on shore, and found his way to the beach, 
where a number of persons were assembled to look 



220 Sir Jerry Coghlan. 

at a large East Indiana an, which was in danger of 
being wrecked. Among the crowd was Sir Edward 
Pellew, afterwards Lord Exmouth, who, perceiving 
that the vessel was already aground, offered a prize 
to any one who should carry a rope through the 
breakers to those on board. No one venturing, 
Jerry thrust himself forward, stripped, tied the rope 
round his waist, dashed through the waves, and 
succeeded in establishing a communication between 
the shore and the ship. This heroic deed won the 
admiration of all who witnessed it, and among them 
that of Sir Edward Pellew, who took Coghlan on 
board the man-of-war that he commanded, and 
made him one of his midshipmen. 

In a few years Jerry was sent into the Mediter- 
ranean, where he displayed such coolness and daring 
in cutting out prizes from the enemy's ports, engag- 
ing with success French vessels larger than his own, 
and running into the best guarded harbours, that 
the Admiralty were induced to give him his lieu- 
tenancy, and the command of a sloop of war. The 
exploits Coghlan performed with this small vessel 
are matters of history ; and his achievements fur- 
nish instances of the wonders that can be wrought 
by the union of skill, presence of mind, and ener- 
getic daring : qualities which have distinguished the 
British navy for the last century. Coghlan's bravery 
elicited many commendations in the despatches of 
Lord St Vincent, the Admiral of the Fleet. In one 
place the noble Lord says : — " I did not think the 
gallantry of Sir Edward Hamilton and Captain 
Patrick Campbell could have been rivalled, until I 
read the enclosed letter from Sir Edward Pellew, 
relating the great services performed by Lieutenant 



Lord Jersey and an Officer of the Guards. 221 

Coghlan of the Viper cutter, which has filled me 
with pride and admiration." Lord St Vincent 
also addressed the following letter to Lord Spencer, 
the First Lord of the Admiralty : — 

" My dear Lord, — I shall not trouble your Lord- 
ships with a word more than is contained in the 
enclosed private letter from Sir Edward Pellew, 
on the subject of the intrepid Coghlan, except to 
say (not out of ostentation, but to prevent the 
city or any body of merchants making him a pre- 
sent of the same sort) that I gave him a sword 
of one hundred guineas' value. — Yours faithfully, 

"St Vincent/' 

Poor Coghlan died young, owing to the wounds 
he had received in the service ; but some years pre- 
vious to his death the quondam cabin-boy became 
a Knight of the Bath. I had the honour of being 
well acquainted with him, and can speak with 
pleasure of his varied attainments, extraordinary 
in a self-educated man, and the manly bearing he 
always exhibited. 

Loed Jersey and an Officer of the Guards. 
— When duelling was at its height in England, the 
most absurd pretexts were made for calling a man 
out. I recollect that at one of the dinners at the 
Thatched House in St James's Street, Mr Willis, the 
proprietor, in passing behind the chairs occupied 
by the company, was accosted by a Captain in the 
3d Guards in a rather satirical manner. Mr 
Willis, smarting under the caustic remarks of the 
gallant Captain, said aloud, — " Sir, I wrote to you at 
the request of Lady Jersey, saying that as her 
Ladyship was unacquainted with you, I had been 



222 Lord Cctstlereagh and Sir E. Pakenham. 

instructed to reply to your letter, by stating that 
the Lady Patronesses declined sending you a ticket 
for the ball." This statement, made in a public 
room, greatly irritated the Captain ; his friends in 
vain endeavoured to calm his wrath, and he sent a 
cartel the following day to Lord Jersey, requesting 
he would name his second, &c Lord Jersey replied 
in a very dignified manner, saying that if all per- 
sons who did not receive tickets from his wife were 
to call him to account for want of courtesy on her 
part, he should have to make up his mind to be- 
come a target for young officers, and he therefore 
declined the honour of the proposed meeting. 

Lord Castlereagh and Sir E. Pakenham. — 
The following incident occurred in London in 1814. 
When the war had terminated in the Peninsula, 
Sir Edward Pakenham, with his physician, Dr 
John Howell, arrived in England, en route to North 
America, where Sir Edward had been named by the 
Duke of York, Commander-in-Chief of the British 
forces. Before the departure of the gallant General, 
he had promised Lord Castlereagh to breakfast 
with him, and at the same time to introduce his 
physician to the minister. After breakfast, Lord 
C. inquired of the Doctor the precise place 
where the jugular vein was situated. Dr Howell 
explained it to the satisfaction of his Lordship, 
stating that it would be a dangerous experiment 
for any man to take the slightest liberty with that 
artery, for death would inevitably follow if it were 
pierced. When the General and his friend were 
returning to their hotel, the former said, "I am 
afraid, Doctor, you were too explicit about the 



Louis Philippe at Twickenham. 223 

jugular artery", for I observed Castlereagh to be in 
a strange mood when you finished your anatomical 
lecture." It is needless to state that many years 
did not elapse before Lord C. committed suicide 
by cutting his throat with a penknife. 

Dr Howell related this incident to me at Brighton 
in 1849. 

Louis Philippe at Twickenham. — Early in this 
century Louis Philippe lived with his brothers in a 
small cottage at Twickenham, where, though fond of 
conviviality, he practised the most rigid economy. 
They had only one man-servant and a maid-of-all- 
work. Towards the end of his chequered life he 
was heard to say in passing the cottage, " There I 
passed some of the happiest days of my life ; but 
during that period I J*id to struggle against poverty, 
without receiving aid from any one." The three 
royal brothers had a tilbury, which they drove by 
turns ; but they gave both man and horse a holiday 
on Sundays. 

I received this little anecdote from a friend who 
when young resided at Kichmond, and was inti- 
mately acquainted with the fallen monarch. Louis 
Philippe resided in England till 1808, when he em- 
barked for Malta, carrying thither, for change of 
climate, his surviving brother, the Count Beaujolais, 
then in a rapid consumption. The Count's health 
was such that it was found necessary to stop at 
Gibraltar, where H. E. H. died. Louis Philippe 
afterwards proceeded to Sicily to return thanks for 
various favours he had received from the King of 
Naples, and there he met his future wife in the 
king's second daughter, the Princess Amelie. There 



224 Eton College in 1810. 

can be little question but that it was a love match, 
as at that period there did not appear to be the 
remotest chance of Louis Philippe succeeding to his 
patrimonial estates, much less to the crown of France ; 
and it was by many considered a foolish marriage. 
There were many difficulties in the way of their 
being married ; but these were, however, surmounted, 
and the royal pair were united on the 25th Novem- 
ber 1809, at Naples. 

After the downfall of Napoleon the First, Louis 
Philippe returned to Paris, contrary to the wishes of 
Louis XVIIL, whose jealousy was sharpened by the 
wily Talleyrand. There he occupied himself with 
the culture of his vast estates, the education of his 
children, and the formation of a political party, 
which a few years later placed him on the throne 
of France. 

Eton College in 1810. — AA 7 hen Dr Keate, the 
head master of the Lower School, was elevated to 
the Upper, he did not bring with him a popular 
name ; his abrupt, blunt, and somewhat rude man- 
ner, which contrasted strongly with the mild and 
polished bearing of his predecessor, Dr Goodall, did 
not tend to remove the unfavourable impression his 
antecedents had produced. The consequence was a 
good deal of disaffection, which showed itself in 
various ways. The most remarkable and successful 
trick which was played off on him, by some bold 
and skilful boy whose name to this day remains 
undisclosed, I will endeavour to desmbe. The 
head master, when he came from his private cham- 
bers to the upper schoolroom, had to pass through 
the old library by a private door, the key of which 



Eton College in 1810. 225 

Keate always carried in his pocket. One morning 
coming to his accustomed duties, on reaching the 
door he tried in vain to insert the key into the 
lock ; the key could not be forced into it : and no 
wonder, for it was afterwards discovered that a 
small bullet had been dexterously inserted into the 
wards of the lock. The little autocrat, (for Keate 
was diminutive in stature,) thus compelled to sound 
a retreat, descended the private stairs, and after 
making a long detour under the colonnade, entered 
the upper schoolroom : he strode along full of ire 
and breathing vengeance ; which, however, was never 
gratified. But the game was not yet played out ; 
for when the Doctor got to the upper end of the 
school, and ascended the steps which led to the pul- 
pit, he found the door which led into it was screwed 
up. Keate was considered to be a sort of pocket 
Hercules, but nevertheless all his efforts to force 
open the door proved ineffectual. Foiled here, he 
rushed to the other side ; but the same result 
awaited him. The well-known Eton cry, " Boo, 
boo," was now reiterated from one end of the school- 
room to the other, which naturally added fuel to the 
flame of the Doctor's wrath. Plucky to the last, 
with one bound he vaulted over the doorway into 
his sanctum, his face glowing with rage like a fiery 
meteor. Off Hew his three-corner cocked-hat, and 
down he sat ; but his seat being smeared all over 
with cobbler's wax, the little man found that he 
could not rise without an awkward rent in his silk 
breeches. I leave it to the reader's imagination to 
picture the result of this species of practical joking : 
it certainly did not improve the Doctor's temper, 
for he grew more unpopular with the school, and 



226 George IV when Prince of Wales. 

he avenged himself upon the persons of delinquent 
boys. 

Flogging at Eton, under Dr. Keate. — Eton 
under Dr Keate was conducted on a system of brutal 
severity, which never ought to have been permitted. 
I recollect that a row — or, as it was foolishly de- 
nominated, a rebellion — took place there in 1809, 
owing to the vexatious and tyrannical conduct of 
the head master, who had ordered an extra muster 
roll during the summer months, by which the 
boys were precluded from amusing themselves as 
before at cricket, boating, &c. On this occasion, 
no fewer than ninety grown-up boys were flogged 
for the crime of declining to comply with the irk- 
some regulation. Though this affair occurred nearly 
sixty years ago, I really cannot think of it with- 
out indignation ; for I remember that the fear of 
the birch was so strong at the time that no boy went 
up with his lesson without trembling with appre- 
hension of being put in the bill for a flogging. 

Keate, however, paid the penalty for his excessive 
severity, for he never got on in the Church ; while 
the late excellent Archbishop Sumner, who was a 
tutor under Keate, and never got a boy flogged, 
owed his position to his kindness towards those who 
afterwards became public men. 

George IV when Prince of Wales. — "When 
everybody took snuff, the Prince of Wales followed 
the fashion ; or rather led it, for he was known to 
possess the finest collection of snuff-boxes that were 
to be had for love or money. His Eoyal Highness 
never permitted his friends or acquaintances the 



Beau BrummeTs Aunt, Mrs Searle. 227 

liberty to take a pinch out of his box, so that every 
one had his own particular tabatiere. How cliffei ent 
this was to times gone by, when a great man de- 
lighted in nothing so much as to offer any one he 
was acquainted with a pinch of snuff : for instance, 
the greatest dandy of the time to which I am refer- 
ring, thought it an honour to take a prise from the 
poet Dryden's box ; but there was unfortunately a 
wide difference between the Prince and the poet. 

Mrs Fitzberbert, who was considered by many to 
be the wife of the Prince Regent, lived in a mag- 
nificent house in Tilney Street, Hyde Park, in great 
state, her carriages and servants being the same as 
those H. R. H. made use of. Brummel, who was then 
on good terms with the Prince, called on this lady 
one day accompanied by his friend Pierrepoint, and 
found the Prince seated on a sofa. The Prince, 
according to the Beau's statement, appeared sullen 
and evidently annoyed at the visit of the two gen- 
tlemen, and on Brummers taking a pinch of snuff 
and carelessly placing his box on a small table nearly 
opposite H. R. H., the Prince observed, " Mr Brummel, 
the place for your box is in your pocket, _and not on 
the table." Another specimen of H. R H.'s rudeness 
may be cited. Lord Barrymore called at Carlton 
House one day, and was ushered into the Prince's 
private room ; on entering he placed his hat on a 
chair, when H. R. H. observed, in a sarcastic man- 
ner, " My Lord, a well-bred man places his hat under 
his arm on entering a room, and on his head when 
out of doors." 

Beau Beummel's Aunt, Mks Searle. — At the 
small entrance of the Green Park, opposite Clarges 



228 Beau BrummeVs Aunt, Mrs Searle. 



Street, and close to the reservoir, there stood some 
years back a neat cottage surrounded by a court- 
yard, with stables for cows. The exterior of the 
cottage betokened no small degree of comfort and 
modest affluence ; nor did the interior disappoint 
those who formed that opinion. Its inmates were 
two old ladies, dressed in the style of Louis XV., 
with high, lace caps and dresses of brocaded silk. 

In the autumn of 1814 I happened to stroll into 
the Park to see these cows, which were famed for 
their colour and symmetry. It was the hour for 
milking them, and one of the old ladies, observing 
my curiosity to see that operation performed, came 
up to the palings and begged me to walk in. I 
readily complied, and remained some time, then, 
thanking her for the honour she had done me, I took 
my leave, having accepted her invitation to pay her 
a visit the next evening ; which I did. After sa- 
luting Mrs Searle and inquiring after her health, I led 
her on to talk on divers matters. She had an ex- 
cellent memory, was replete with esprit, and appeared 
to possess a knowledge of everything and everybody. 
I soon discovered that the old lady was proud of her 
blood, and she told me that she was aunt to George 
Brummel, the Beau; that George III. had placed her 
as gate-keeper of the Green Park, and that the Prin- 
cess Mary had kindly furnished her little cottage. 
Her description of the Eoyal Family was somewhat 
interesting. She said, that one day the Prince of 
Wales, accompanied by the beautiful Marchioness 
of Salisbury, called upon her, and as it was a beauti- 
ful summer's evening, stopped to see her cows milked. 
Her nephew George Brummel, who had only a day 
or two before left Eton, happened to be present. 



Anecdote of a Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland. 229 

The Prince, attracted by his nice manners, entered 
into conversation with him, and before he left said, 
" As I find you intend to be a soldier, I will give 
you a commission in my own regiment." Tears of 
gratitude filled the youth's eyes, and he fell on his 
knees and kissed the royal hand. Shortly after, 
George Brummel's commission in the 10th Hussars 
was made out, and he was soon quartered with his 
regiment at Brighton. Mrs Searle added, "But what is 
most singular, a striking change took place in my 
nephew's behaviour ; for so soon as he began to mix 
in society with the Prince, his visits to me became 
less and less frequent, and now he hardly ever calls 
to see his old aunt." 

One Way Out of a Dilemma. — I recollect when 
a boy seeing a strange couple, a Mr and Mrs Turbe- 
ville, who were famed for their eccentricities. Mr 
Turbeville was related to Sir Thomas Picton, but did 
not possess the talent or discretion of the gallant 
General. Upon one occasion, at a dinner at Dun- 
raven Castle, after the ladies had retired, Mr Turbe- 
ville observed to a gentleman present, that the woman 
who had sat at his right was the ugliest he had ever 
seen ; upon which the gentleman said, " I am sorry to 
hear that you think my wife so ill-looking." " Oh, no, 
sir, I have made a mistake ; I meant the lady who 
sat on my left." " Well, sir, she is my sister." " It 
can't be helped, sir, then ; for if what you have 
said is true, I must confess I never saw such an 
ugly family during the course of my life/' 

Anecdote of a Lord-Lieutenant of Ieeland. — 
In times gone by, when Lords-Lieutenants thought 



230 Mr Lawrence, the Celebrated Surgeon. 



more of love and beauty than the land they were sent 
to govern, and considered they had a right to mono- 
polise every pretty girl who appeared at the Castle 
balls, two sisters, the beautiful Misses Gurm, were 
the objects of the Viceroy's assiduous attention. Of 
course, they were much envied both by mothers and 
daughters for the attention shown them by the Vice- 
roy and his family. All went on swimmingly until one 
day a young lady, only about sixteen years of age, 
and of surpassing beauty, a Miss Woodcock, made her 
appearance at one of the drawing-rooms. She came 
as if from the waves of the Channel, for nobody knew 
her name or family, and she was known by the cog- 
nomen of the beautiful Venus. The Lord-Lieutenant 
at once discarded the Misses Gunn, and lavished 
jewellery and presents upon the youthful Venus in 
so barefaced a manner, that society began to be 
alarmed, and gave the new beauty the cold shoulder. 
Bunbury, the celebrated caricaturist, happening to be 
at Dublin, turned the scandal to good account, by 
drawing a capital likeness of the Viceroy, dressed as 
Eobinson Crusoe, carrying a Gun upon each shoulder, 
and a Woodcock at his left side ; denoting that his 
affections lay in that quarter. 

Mr Lawrence, the Celebrated Surgeon. — It 
was my good fortune to have known Mr Lawrence, 
who was allowed to have been the most scientific, 
as well as one of the most skilful surgeons England 
or Europe could boast of at that time. The opinion 
entertained of him by the faculty was evinced by 
the many high encomiums passed upon his talents by 
his contemporaries. He was the most accomplished 
and gentlest of mankind, and ever ready to render the 



Escapade of an Officer of the 3d Foot Guards. 231 

slightest service to a friend in distress. Upon one 
occasion I called upon him at his house in White- 
hall, opposite the Admiralty, and told him that 
half an hour before I had seen a pretty girl, an 
opera dancer, unable to move from her sofa owing 
to " soft corns," which precluded her from appear- 
ing on the stage. " Bring her here, my friend 
Gronow, and I will endeavour to cure her ; but do 
not mention to any one that I have turned chiro- 
podist.'" I lost no time in calling upon the 
danseuse, and prevailed upon her to place herself 
under the care of my skilful friend. Some few 
days elapsed, when I met Lawrence in his carriage 
and was invited by him to take a drive, during 
which he asked me if I had seen the young lady, 
whom he had operated upon and completely cured. 
Upon my replying in the negative, he said, " It is 
always so when you render a service to persons 
possessing neither principle nor feeling ; you are 
sure to be treated with ingratitude." This lady 
became immensely rich, and I regret to add that 
the surgeon's fee was never paid, which I had good 
reason to know amounted to twenty guineas. 

Escapade of an Officer of the 3d Foot 
Guakds. — It is nearly fifty years since a young 
officer in the 3d Guards, smitten with the charms 
of Lady Betty Charteris, who was remarkable 
for her beauty and attainments, determined at 
all hazards to carry her off and marry her. Her 
father put a stop to any legitimate, straightfor- 
ward wooing, by forbidding her to encourage the 
attentions of the young officer, who was too poor to 
maintain her in the position in which she had been 



232 Escapade of an Officer of the 3d Foot Guards. 

brought up. When the London season was over, 
the family left for Scotland, and my friend, An- 
drew C , decided on following his lady-love. 

Andrew was young, handsome, romantic, and 
sentimental ; but a brave fellow, and had fought 
gallantly at Waterloo. After consulting several of 
his intimate friends, who recommended persever- 
ance, he determined to further his scheme by dis- 
guising himself. So, with the aid of a black wig 
and a suit of seedy clothes, he engaged the services 
of an Italian organ-grinder, and took his place be- 
side him on one of the Edinburgh coaches. 

In the course of a few days the pair arrived at a 
village close to the mansion of the lady's father, 
and a correspondence was carried on between the 
lovers. They met, and after a great many urgent 
entreaties on the part of the enamoured swain, a 
day was arranged for the elopement. Andrew next 
gained over the head gardener, by stating that he 
had just arrived from Holland, and was up to the 
latest dodges in tulip-growing ; then a mania in 
England. By this means he contrived to be con- 
stantly on the premises, and to obtain frequent in- 
terviews with the charming Lady Betty. The day 
fixed at length arrived, and the organ-grinder (then 
a rarity in Scotland) was introduced on the scene ; 
his sprightly airs fascinated the servants, who 
thronged to listen to him, and meanwhile a post- 
chaise and four was driven up, out of sight of the 
house, according to a previous understanding be- 
tween the lovers, who were ready for instant flight. 
Unluckily there was an excessively vigilant gover- 
ness in attendance on Lady Betty, and at the 
moment when affairs seemed most prosperous, this 



The Good Fortune of a Pretty Woman. 233 

duenna was at her post at the young lady's side in 
the garden. Andrew, feeling that everything de- 
pended on some decisive action, suddenly appeared, 
and- ejaculating, " Now or never ! " caught hold of 
his dulcinea's arm, and attempted to hurry in the 
direction of the chaise. The dragon interposed, 
and clung to the young lady, screaming for assist- 
ance ; her cries brought out the servants, the en- 
raged father, and the inmates of the house to her 
assistance, and poor Andrew and the organ-man 
with his monkey were ejected from the premises. 
The young Guardsman, however, soon got over 
the sorrow caused by the failure of his scheme ; 
but the nickname of "Merry Andrew/' bestowed 
on him by his brother officers, stuck to him after- 
wards. 

The Good Fortune of a Pretty Woman. — 
More than half a century ago a lady, conspicuous 
in the aristocratic world, on returning from a 
courtly fete and arriving at her mansion about four 
o'clock in the morning, was informed by her ser- 
vants that a female child had been left at the door, 
wrapped up in a blanket. She desired that the 
infant might be taken care of ; and, in the course of 
time, the child became a servant in the establish- 
ment. The girl grew to be a remarkable speci- 
men of female beauty ; her form Avas exquisitely 
modelled ; her complexion was delicate and bloom- 
ing ; her features were regular, and she was re- 
markable for her large blue, thoughtful eyes. But 
her greatest charm consisted in a most engaging 
and lovable smile. It was difficult to gaze upon 
that face without feeling an interest in Clo tilde far 



234 The Good Fortune of a Pretty Woman. 

beyond that which generally accompanies the con- 
templation of ordinary beauty. Although educated 
in the servants' hall, yet, by that singular instinct 
which some women possess, she had learned to make 
her conversation and manner acceptable and engag- 
ing to educated persons, whether male or female. 
The titled lady whom she knew as her protector 
made her her confidential maid, and Clotilde soon 
became the companion of her mistress. 

She was not more than eighteen years of age 
when an Admiral of the British navy, who visited 
the house, fell desperately in love with her. It was 
during the period of the great wars of Napoleon the 
First, and the Admiral, being employed in cruising 
about the Mediterranean, was absent from London 
for long periods ; but he never failed to correspond 
with Clotilde, and his letters were regularly placed 
before her mistress. The girl used to turn into 
ridicule the passionate language of the old sailor ; 
but time passed on, and the Admiral returned, 
having distinguished himself, and become known as 
the intimate friend of the immortal Xelson ; and, 
within six months afterwards, Clotilde became the 
wife of one of the most distinguished officers of the 
British navy- 

As frequently occurs when a young and beautiful 
woman of humble extraction is allied to a man in 
advanced years, and finds herself surrounded by 
men occupying the highest position in society, 
Clotilde became susceptible to attentions which 
were paid with a view to undermine her virtue. 
Amongst her admirers was a royal Duke, who 
afterwards ascended the throne of Great Britain , 
and there is every reason to believe that many 



The Good Fortune of a Pretty Woman. 235 

public acts of the navy and army originated in her 
influence. In short, the marriage was anything 
but a happy one, although the lady had daughters 
who were married to rich and noble foreigners. In 
the course of time the Admiral ignored her amours ; 
and it was well known in London society that my 
lady had her friends, and the Admiral his. 

As Clotilde advanced in life, she fascinated and 
formed an intimacy with one of the most wealthy 
of British peers. By pandering to the eccentri- 
cities of the noble Lord, her authority over him 
became absolute. It was through this nobleman 
that she bestowed magnificent doweries on her 
daughters, and became possessed of a colossal 
fortune. Although her conduct was notoriously 
immoral, she was countenanced and visited by 
persons who, as is too frequently the case, permit 
their morality to become exceedingly elastic in the 
presence of wealth. Later in life, she thought it 
advisable to remove to Naples, where accident 
threw her in the way of a French lady's-maid, who 
in course of time obtained an alarming influence 
over his Lordship. Ever adroit, and possessing 
intuitive perception and forethought, the lady 
made friends with the Frenchwoman; and when 
his Lordship's will was opened, it revealed an 
engagement which the rival ladies had previously 

concocted : Lady S became the legatee to an 

immense fortune, whilst her maid was moderately 
provided for. 

Her great aim, after the death of the nobleman 
in question, was to become a respectable member of 
society. She invited people to magnificent dinners, 
became very devout, gave away a great deal of 



236 Colonel, or "Bull" Townshend. 

money in charity, and indeed did everything that 
such women do under similar circumstances. Her 
career is another illustration of what a pretty and 
clever woman, without heart or conscience, can 
accomplish, if smiled upon by fortune. 

Colonel, or "Bull/' Townshend. — When the 
Grenadier Guards returned to London from Cam- 
brai, where they had been quartered some consider- 
able time, the first thing that was proposed by the 
officers, was to invite their colonel, the Duke of 
York, to a banquet at the Thatched House, St James's 
Street. His Eoyal Highness, in a letter full of feel- 
ing and good taste, in which he alluded to the gal- 
lantry of the regiment he commanded, accepted the 
invitation, and, as was the custom upon such occa- 
sions, the army agents of the regiment were also 
invited. After dinner, Colonel Townshend com- 
monly called the Bull, addressed the Duke, stat- 
ing that, as he was then in command of the old 
battalion, he hoped H. B. H. would permit him to 
propose a toast. The Duke bowed assent, when 
the Bull bellowed out, "I propose the health of Mr 
Greenwood, to whom we are all of us so much 
indebted." This toast was ill chosen, for the Duke 
of York owed his army agents at that moment 
nearly fifty thousand pounds ; but Townshend con- 
sidered it a good joke, for he used frequently to 
boast of having astonished the Duke with his witty 
toast. Townshend was the brother of Lord Sidney. 
He was considered by the officers and men of the 
regiment to be intrepid and brave. He was un- 
fortunately a slave to good cookery, which was the 
principal cause of his death. Townshend, despite 



The Marquis d'AUgre and the Dentist. 237 

his imperfections, was generous and full of com- 
passion to the soldiers he commanded ; he stooped 
to no flattery, disdained all disloyal arts, and, in a 
word, was replete with sterling and splendid qualities. 

Many of my old comrades can remember the 
excellent dinners Townshend used to give his 
friends at Cambrai. I can call to mind that at one 
of those banquets, a young officer wilfully placed 
some ipecacuanha in one of Townshend's favourite 
entrees, of which he ate rather voraciously. The con- 
sequence was, the Colonel was obliged to quit the 
dinner-table sooner than the rest of the convives. 
In the hurry of the moment he sat down upon a 
brittle vase, which broke, and caused a wound so 
severe that he was confined to his room for many 
weeks, and the doctor of the regiment was appre- 
hensive of mortification, for it baffled for a con- 
siderable time his skill in effecting a cure ; but, 
fortunately, the gallant colonel recovered. 

This unlucky accident became the subject of 
general conversation all over London, and the Duke 
of York happened at one of his dinners to allude to 
the awkward wound inflicted upon " the Bull," when 
Alvanley, who was dining at the royal table, observed 
in his off-hand manner, it was a "filet de boeuf saute." 

The Maequis d'Aligre and the Dentist. — In 
my third volume I alluded to the Marquis d'Aligre, 
who, though enormously rich, was known as the 
miser. When in England, during the war with 
France, he lived in great penury ; and his costume 
and appearance, half military and half Moravian, 
aided his assumption of the character of an im- 
poverished Emigre. Having lost nearly all his 



238 The Marquis cVAligre and the Dentist 



teeth, he determined to have a set of false ones, 
and accordingly called on Mr Spence, a celebrated 
dentist, who lived in Arlington Street, Piccadilly, to 
whom he represented himself as an emigrd in 
urgent need of a set of teeth, but without means to 
pay for them. Mr Spence, commiserating the poor 
Frenchman, said he would make him a present of 
them : a day was fixed for their completion, and 
D'Aligre joyfully promised to keep the appoint- 
ment. 

It happened that a countryman of D'Aligre's 
overheard the interview, and seeing Mr Spence in a 
thinking attitude, after the cunning old miser had 
left, said, " I suppose you are wondering why that 
old gentleman should be so ill-dressed, instead of 
being clothed like the generality of his country- 
men." Mr Spence, not understanding the drift of 
the remark, begged he would be more explicit ; 
upon which the gentleman repeated his remark, 
adding, " his penurious habits make us blush for 
our country." "What do you mean, sir'?" reiter- 
ated the dentist. " I have promised to supply him 
with a new set of teeth gratis, for he represents 
himself as a poor nobleman without means ; and 
unless you can prove that all he has said is false, 
I shall keep my word ; on the other Land if I find 
that I have been imposed upon, I will make him 
repent it." The Frenchman said no more, but 
bowed and left. It happened, however, that among 
the many foreigners who participated in Mr Spence s 
hospitality, was the Due de Bourbon, who, although 
very proud, was glad enough to dine with the den- 
tist when invited ; and at table one day, about this 
time, D'Aligre's name was mentioned. Mr Spence, 



The French Emigres. 239 

anxious to learn more about the man, asked His Royal 
Highness if he could enlighten him on that point. 
The Duke said, " D'Aligre's wealth is unbounded ; he 
possesses more than all the emigres from France." 

Mr Spence's wrath and indignation on disco- 
vering the imposition were great ; and he deter- 
mined to revenge himself. On the day appointed 
for the teeth to be ready, the Marquis made his 
appearance, and wished the dentist good morn- 
ing in a most obsequious manner. Mr Spence took 
out of his pocket a piece of paper upon which was 
written, " The Marquis d'Aligre to Mr Spence for 
a set of false teeth, £200," at the same time holding 
in his other hand the coveted articles. D'Aligre 
again attempted to enact the " poor man ; " but the 
dentist gave him till the following day to pay for 
them. The money not being forthcoming, Mr 
Spence, in the presence of several persons, broke in 
pieces the false teeth he had made, saying, " Eather 
than be cheated and robbed in such a manner, I 
would discontinue my profession. But this affair 
will only hurt the Marquis ; for he will have to 
live upon slops until he finds some dentist whom he 
can defraud." 

The French Emigres. — 'We must all acknow- 
ledge that the self-denial and patience exhibited by 
the refugees from France at the time of the Revo- 
lution was worthy of the highest praise : nearly 
all the nobles and proprietors of that country 
quitted it during that fatal period, and the greater 
part came to England. Among them I recollect the 
Counts Forbin d'Offede, Choiseul, la Rochejacquelin, 
de Marin, and d'Aubenton, who gave lessons in 



240 The French Emigres. 

French or music ; while the nobles De la Kochefou- 
cauld, De Sainte-Aldegonde, and others, became linen 
merchants ; others, with equally great names, kept 
furnished lodgings, or cafes; while youths extremely 
well born and educated were obliged to seek situa- 
tions as clerks in mercantile houses. One of the 
most remarkable men alive was obliged to emigrate 
to London — I mean Auber, the great composer. He 
became clerk in a bank, where he remained some 
years . it was the same establishment where the rich 
Greffulhe laid the foundation of a fortune which, it 
is said, exceeds at the present moment six millions 
sterling. 

I have already mentioned the Marquis d'Aligre's 
conduct with regard to tradespeople ; and towards his 
own countrymen he was equally mean in refusing 
them any assistance, although then in the enjoyment 
of a princely income. After the affair with the den- 
tist, London becoming too warm for him, he took his 
departure for Germany with his wife, whose death 
occurred there. It is the custom in that country on 
such occasions, for an official to call at every house 
proclaiming in a loud voice the age and titles of the 
deceased, and the day fixed for the funeral ; the 
Marquis, desirous of avoiding expense, and being in 
a measure compelled to respect the rule, employed 
his servant to announce these particulars. Accord- 
ingly, the flunkey, dressed in a sorry threadbare suii 
of black, carried out his master's orders by knocking 
at every door, and exclaiming in a loud voice, " Hier, 
a six heures du soir, Madame la Marquise d'Aligrc 
caput." As " caput " in the German language means 
destroyed and broken to pieces, this announcement 
rather astonished the natives. 



An Incident at the Battle of Borodino. 241 



'liie avarice of the Marquis so disgusted the inha- 
bitants of Carlsbad that they determined by hook or 
by crook to get rid of him. Every sort of practical 
joke was played on him, and he at last quitted the 
town just as a concert of rough music, or, in other 
words, a charivari, which had been preparing for 
some time, was about to be given in his honour. 

The Emperor Alexander. — The Emperor Alex- 
ander was considered one of the politest men of his 
age. When attending the Congress at Aix la Cha- 
pelle, he would, out of compliment, put on the Prus- 
sian uniform when he visited the King of Prussia, 
the Austrian when he visited the Emperor of Austria, 
and the English uniform, in honour of our country, 
which was represented by the Duke of Wellington. 

It is known that, prior to the disastrous Eussian 
campaign, his majesty was an enthusiastic admirer 
of Napoleon, and it is said that when, according to 
custom, orders were exchanged between the sove- 
reigns of Bussia and France, the Emperor Alexander 
was so proud of the grand cross of the Legion of 
Honour, that, not content with wearing it in his 
button-hole, he had another cross made which, on 
grand occasions, was hung round the neck of his 
favourite horse. When Napoleon heard of this eccen- 
tricity he said, "My brother the Emperor can do what 
he likes at St Petersburg ; but if he adopted that plan 
in Paris,, my Minister of Police would feel it his duty 
to consign him to Bicetre (the madhouse) to prevent 
his being mobbed and laughed at by the public." 

An Incident at the Battle op Borodino. — 
At the bloody battle of Borodino, the news of the 

Q 



242 General Jacqueminot. 

great redoubt having been taken was carried to the 
Emperor Napoleon by a staff officer. The Emperor 
inquired whether the bearer of the message had been 
sent by General Caulaincourt, and the officer had 
begun his reply thus, "No, your majesty; I saw 
the General receive his death wound on entering 
the battery" — when he himself received a terrible 
wound, and fell from his horse insensible through 
loss of blood. The Emperor took off the cross of 
honour which he wore, and directed his aide-de- 
camp to place it on the poor fellow's breast. The 
wound was so severe that all the surgeons could do 
to resuscitate him proved for some time of no avail ; 
but happily, on one of the grenadiers slapping his 
hands, he opened his eyes and beheld the cross of 
the Legion of Honour with which he had been deco- 
rated by order of his sovereign, and was told that 
if he survived he would be promoted. Fortunately, 
youth and health carried him through, and the pro- 
mise made to him was kept. 

General Jacqueminot. — In 1814, soon after the 
return of the Bourbons, General Jacqueminot and 
three other officers of the Bonaparte school dressed 
themselves like emigres, went to the cafe Hardy, 
asked for the carte, and looking it over observed an 
entree called "Poulet a la Marengo,'" upon which Jac- 
queminot observed, " No, that won't do ; it smells too 
much of the Revolution." A gentleman, sitting at 
the next table, who had served under the Emperor 
at the battle of Marengo, jumped up and exclaimed, 
"What the devil do those emigres know of our 
battles 1 They ran away from France when there 
was diiagt!!', but come back when it is over." Jac- 



The Emperor's Fur Cloak 243 



queminot pretended to be very irate ; but going up 
to the gentleman in question said, in a low voice, 
" You are one of tlie right sort. I admire both your 
courage and frankness ; and if all men of our party 
would follow your example, there would not be a 
Bourbon left in Paris twenty-four hours longer." 

Unfortunately for the young men who had acted 
the part of emigres, it happened that one of the 
waiters was a policeman in disguise. He denounced 
them to the Government, who ordered the whole 
of them to appear before a court-martial ; they 
were tried, and condemned to lose their rank and 
pay in the army. Jacqueminot was so enraged 
with the police spy, that he caught hold of the man 
in the presence of the court, and would have mur- 
dered him, had not the President, who had formerly 
known Jacqueminot in Eussia, cried aloud, " You 
are too brave to hurt that villain. All hail, Jacque- 
minot, as a hero ! " Suddenly Jacqueminot recollected 
that the President had been saved by him at the 
battle of Borodino. 

The Emperor's Fur Cloak. — When Napoleon 
I. assumed the title of Emperor, he received from 
the Emperor of Eussia a magnificent fur cloak, 
which, it was reported, cost a fabulous sum. The 
Princess Pauline, being desirous of possessing this 
costly mantle, by exercising her bewitching fascina- 
tions, prevailed upon her imperial brother to give it 
her. It was generally believed that she had given 
her affections to a young officer, who was considered 
very handsome ; but he, not content with being 
thus favoured, was very jealous of her, and objected 
to her wearing the mantle, as she thereby attracted 



244 A Marriage Quickly Arranged. 



great attention : the Princess, therefore, made him 
a present of it. 

This gentleman, a M. de Canouville, vain of his 
good looks, which the superb cloak set off to advan- 
tage, determined on wearing it at a grand review 
of the Guards, prior to their departure for Eussia. 
He was riding a very young horse, which had not 
been sufficiently broken, and when the Emperor ar- 
rived on the ground with his escort, the sudden 
burst of music and the firing of cannon so fright- 
ened the animal that he bolted at railroad speed 
across the review ground. Unluckily for the cox- 
comb, this contretemps did not escape the keen eye of 
the Emperor, who recognised the imperial gift ; and, 
on his return to the Tuileries, he gave orders to 
send the culprit to join the army, saying that the 
fur cloak would keep him warm amid the snows 
and ice of Russia, from whence it came. 

A Marriage Quickly Arranged. — When the 
expedition was about to sail from France for St 
Domingo, the First Consul named his brother-in- 
law, General Leclerc, commander-in-chief of the 
invading army. The General went, as is usual in 
such cases, to make his bow to his superior, prior to 
his departure. Bonaparte addressed him in rather 
a laconic tone, saying, " You must quit Paris 
to-morrow evening." " But, sire, it is impossible," 
replied General Leclerc. " Nothing is impossible : 
my orders must be obeyed. I have no objection to 
your taking my sister Pauline, your wife, with you ; 
but go you must." "But, sire, my sister will be left 
behind in France, without money or friends." " Oh! 
is that all % " replied the First Consul. " I will send 



A Marriage Quickly Arranged. 245 

her a husband to-morrow, with rank and money. 
Begone, sir, and come back in the course of to- 
morrow, and all will be arranged to your satisfac- 
tion." General Leclerc left, muttering, "Nous ne 
devons "plus qu'obeir. Nous avons trouve un maitre 
Id oil nous ne voulions qyCun protecteur." 

Meanwhile General Davoust entered the First 
Consul's cabinet, when Bonaparte said to him, " I 
am glad you are come, for I have found you a wife, 
young and accomplished." " But, sire, I am engaged 
to a young lady, and have promised to marry her 
as soon as I have procured your consent." " Not a 
word more, Davoust, about your promise ; but come 
here to-morrow morning, and you shall know more 
about your future wife." It was no use to kick 
against the pricks, so Davoust arrived at the palace 
the next morning, where he met Leclerc ; neither 
being aware of the relation in which they were 
about to stand to each other. They sent in their 
names ; and Bonaparte calling them in, told Leclerc 
to accompany Davoust to St Germain, where he was 
to introduce the latter to his sister. Madame 
de Campan, in her position of directress of the con- 
vent, was to accompany them back to Paris with 
the young lady in question, and all were to present 
themselves at the Tuileries at a given hour. There 
the marriage-contract was signed. Napoleon settled 
a large dowery on the bride, and agreed to provide 
her with everything necessary for her corbeille de 
mariage. Thus, in twenty-four hours, one General 
found a brother-in-law in a rival, the other a brother- 
in-law in an engaged lover, and the young lady a 
husband in the man who was justly called "the 
bloody Davoust," 



2-46 Napoleon the First's Love of Music. 

Napoleon the First's Love of Music. — The 
Emperor Napoleon I. was passionately fond of 
Italian music, and wherever the Court stayed, 
several of the best artistes of the day might be 
found, who were treated with the greatest con- 
sideration. Paesiello was the Emperor's favourite 
amongst them ; indeed, he took an unbounded 
interest in his success, and was so enchanted one 
day by a song Paesiello had just written, that he 
caught him by the hand, saying, " Without doubt 
you are the greatest composer that ever lived." 
" No, sire, I am not," replied he ; " while Cimarosa 
lives, to him must be given the palm." 

Paesiello wrote the opera of " Proserpine," which 
was brought out at Paris under the auspices of the 
Emperor ; but somehow or other it did not suit the 
French taste, and proved a failure. Napoleon was 
furious at the non-success of his proteges opera, and 
observed, " It is not to be wondered at, for the French 
understand nothing of music." Paesiello thought so 
too ; for though so highly patronised by the Emperor 
and court, he quitted France in disgust. It was 
with difficulty that a man of musical genius could 
be found to replace the Italian in the Emperor's 
favour; but Mehul was at last thought of, and 
summoned to the Tuileries. When he was in- 
formed of Napoleon's wishes, the composer solicited 
an interview with the great man, and after the usual 
salutation, informed the Emperor that he could not 
accept the proffered honour unless allowed to 
divide the perquisites with his friend Cherubini. 
This was refused ; Napoleon saying, "I can never 
permit that, for I hate the man." " It is a pity 
sire, that you do not like him, for he is my superior 



Napoleon the First's Love of Music. 247 

in every way." " I care not for that. I still per- 
sist in refusing to have that man near me, and 
nothing can change my determination." " Then," 
replied Mehul, " I am compelled to decline the 
nattering offer your majesty has made me." 

The reason why the Emperor was so inimical to 
Cherubini was that, when Napoleon returned from 
the Italian campaign with only the rank of General, 
he on one occasion offered a remark not very flat- 
tering to the composer ; and Cherubini retorted, 
" Melez vous, General, de gagner des batailles ; c'est 
votre metier. Laissez-moi faire le mien, auquel 
vous n'entendez rien." For this Cherubini was 
never pardoned. Mehul, though he had refused the 
Emperor's offer, still, remained in favour at Court, 
and his pieces were criticised by the Emperor ; who 
often told Mehul that his compositions were too 
German, and not to be compared with those of the 
Italian school. " The Germans, in composing, think 
too much of science, but are unmindful of that 
which touches the heart. This fault is also shaved 
by the French composers : all their operas want 
grace and gaiety." On the appearance of the opera 
"L'Irato" which is written in the Italian style, Na- 
poleon, ignorant as to who the composer was, begged 
Mehul to be present. After some demur he con- 
sented. The overture was much applauded, and 
the Emperor observed to Mehul, " Now, you see, 
there is nothing like Italian music." The opera 
then proceeded, and was throughout much admired 
by the audience ; and when at the end the authors 
of the piece were called before the curtain, Mehul, 
the composer, and Marsollier, the writer of the 
piece, appeared, and were received with boisterous 



248 Prince Eugene Beauharnais. 



applause. The Emperor, delighted, sent for Mehul, 
and cried out, in a tone loud enough to be heard by 
many present, "Attrapez moi toujours de meme, 
mon cher Mehul, et je m'en rejouirai pour votre 
gloire et mes plaisirs." 

Parting op Napoleon and Madame Mere. — 
Talma was present at the last parting at the Malmai- 
son between the Emperor and his mother, and he 
said that it was one of the most tragic scenes he 
had ever witnessed. When the last moment arrived, 
the Empress-mother, prostrated with grief, and 
with tears streaming from her eyes, could only 
utter, in a tremulous voice, "Adieu, mon Jils! 
adieu !" And Napoleon was so affected, that he 
caught hold of both her hands, cried, "Adieu, ma 
mere ! " and burst into tears as he left her. The 
mother was destined never again to meet the 
son 

" Whose filial piety excels 
Whatever Grecian story tells." 

Prince Eugene Beauharnais. — Soon after the 
fall of Napoleon, the Emperor of Russia, together 
with the other allied sovereigns, desirous of show- 
ing their respect and admiration for the conduct of 
Prince Eugene, offered him the Duchy of Genoa. 
The following was the reply sent by the Viceroy to 
the one he had received making the offer : — 

" Sire, — I have received your Majesty's proposi- 
tions. They certainly are very flattering, but they 
will in no way change my determination. Neither 
the duchy nor the kingdom of Italy will induce 
me to become a traitor ; and rather than follow the 



The Emperor of the French when a Boy. 249 

example of Murat, I would prefer entering the 
ranks again as a private soldier. 

" You state that the Emperor Napoleon was not 
kind to me. I have forgotten all this. I know, 
however, that I owe everything to him — my for- 
tune, my rank and titles. If he should require my 
services again, I would serve him with all my 
ability ; for my body belongs to him, as does my 
heart. 

" I flatter myself that in refusing to agree to the 
offer you have done me the honour to make, your 
Majesty will appreciate my conduct, and assure me 
the continuance of your esteem. 

" Eugene Beauharnais." 

The Present Emperor of the French when a 
Boy. — Prince Louis Napoleon, when at the age of six, 
lived with his mother, Queen Hortense, at the Mal- 
maison, with whom resided the Empress Josephine ; 
who, it will be remembered, received the allied sove- 
reigns there in 1814, after Napoleon I. was exiled to 
Elba. The Emperor of Kussia when in Paris scarcely 
passed a day without visiting those exalted ladies, 
and on each occasion he breakfasted or dined with 
them. The Queen told her children, that when the 
Emperor Alexander called, every mark of attention 
and respect was to be paid to his Imperial Majesty ; 
for to him, and him alone, they owed everything 
they possessed in the world. Prince Louis listened 
to his mother's precepts with great attention, but 
said nothing. The next time the Czar came, how- 
ever, the little fellow sidled up to him and quietly 
placed on one of the Czar's fingers a ring, which his 
uncle Prince Eugene, the Viceroy of Italy, had 



250 The Emperor of the French when a Boy. 

given him. The boy, on being asked by his mother 
what he meant, said, " I have only this ring, which 
my uncle gave me ; but I have given it to the 
Emperor Alexander, because he has been so kind to 
you, dear mamma." The autocrat smiled, and placing 
the gift on his watch-chain, said he would never part 
with it, but would keep it in remembrance of the 
noble trait of generosity shown by one so young. 
The Queen replied, " Sire, my son Louis keeps nothing 
for himself : the other day I gave him some pretty 
buttons, but he gave them away to some of his play- 
mates ; and when I reproached him for so doing, his 
answer was, " Vous voulez, maman, me procurer un 
plaisir en me les qffrant, et vous m'en procurez deux ; 
celui de recevoir de vous, maman, un jolie chose, 
et ensuite le plaisir de la donner a un autre." 

Another anecdote, showing the good nature of 
Louis Napoleon, was related to me by the late M. 
Mocquard, with whom I was well acquainted. 
After leaving the Malmaison, Queen Hortense 
settled by the Lake of Constance, where the young- 
Prince was constantly in the habit of relieving 
poor people by giving away his pocket-money. One 
day he observed a family in the greatest distress, 
but having no money to give them ; he took off his 
coat and boots and gave them to these poor people, 
saying that he was sorry that he had not any 
money for them, as he had given away the allow- 
ance his mother made him to some other poor 
persons who had just passed by the house ; but he 
hoped they would dispose of his clothes to relieve 
their wants. The weather at this time was very 
cold, and the ground covered with snow ; the Prince 
nevertheless, trudged through it towards home 



The Czar and the Apple Girl, 251 

and when near the house was met by Mocquard, 
who- expressed his surprise at seeing him in that 
state. The little fellow, then ten years old, replied, 
" I have given away my clothes to some poor 
people to prevent them from starving/' Mocquard 
added, that " the Emperor is never so happy as 
when he can relieve the distressed." 

Jerome Bonaparte and Cardinal Fesch.— 
Jerome, the youngest brother of the great Em- 
peror, was when young extremely wild and extra- 
vagant. He was always in debt, and would borrow 
money of any one who would trust him. Upon 
one occasion he called upon his uncle, the Car- 
dinal Fesch, who invited him to dinner. The Car- 
dinal was a great amateur of paintings, and his 
gallery contained some of the finest specimens of 
the old masters. After dinner, the Cardinal was 
on the point of quitting the dining-room, when 
Jerome followed him, and asked for the loan of 500 
francs. The old Cardinal refused to lend him the 
money, whereupon Jerome became furious, drew his 
sword, swore vengeance against his uncle, and 
began cutting at everything about him. Unfortu- 
nately his sword fell upon a chef-d'oeuvre by Van- 
dyke, which the Cardinal, upon his return to the 
dining-room, observing, called out in a loud voice, 
" Stop, young man ! sheathe your sword, and here 
are your 500 francs ! " 

The Czar and the Apple Girl. — In the neigh- 
bourhood of the Tuileries there used to be a small 
fair, where apples, toys, cakes, &c, were sold. When 
the Emperor Alexander was in Paris, he one day 



252 De Souza, the Portuguese Ambassador. 

strolled through it, and remarking a very pretty- 
fascinating girl staring intently at him from one of 
the stalls, he asked her the reason. " I am looking 
at you, sir," she replied, " because you are the very 
counterpart of the Emperor of Eussia ; but you can- 
not be that great personage, or you would not lower 
yourself by talking to a poor apple girl." The auto- 
crat replied, "Whether I am the Emperor or not, 
rest assured, my dear, that were I to stay much 
longer in your company I should lose my heart ; but, 
however," continued he, presenting her with a louis 
d'or, " can you tell me the address of the Emperor 
of Eussia, for I am anxious to find it out?" She 
gave up her stall to one of her friends, and volun- 
teered to accompany the great man to find himself. 
On their arrival at the hotel, he begged she would 
walk in. " No, sir : I have shown you where the 
Emperor lives, which I think is all that you re- 
quire ; so good morning, sir." " No, no, that is not 
all, my little angel ; you must now tell me where 
you live." " Well, sir, I am to be found at my stall." 
The result of this was, that the girl found her way 
to St Petersburg, where she lived for some time un- 
der the Emperor's protection : she afterwards mar- 
ried a great nobleman, and became the mother of 
the man who played the most prominent part in 
the Crimean war. 

De Souza, the Portuguese Ambassador. The 

fame of De Souza for the piquancy of his wit and 
his readiness in retort was general at every court in 
Europe. When in England, he had the entree of 
Carlton House, and was on terms of intimacy with 
the Prince Eegent. At that time his Eoyal BMi-, 



De Souza, the Portuguese Ambassador. 253 



ness's life was spent in great dissipation, and those 
at court followed his example. A hundredth part 
of what actually occurred at Carlton House would 
afford rare materials for anecdote ; though it is only 
right to add that much of the scandal propagated 
respecting this period was pure invention. 

De Souza, though perhaps the ugliest little man I 
ever saw, was nevertheless remarkable for the charm 
and grace of his conversation ; and there was no one 
then in the diplomatic world, Tallyrand excepted, 
who attained greater perfection in what is called the 
art de vivre than the Portuguese ambassador. Our 
hero revelled in the gossip and scandal of society, 
and he used to amuse the Prince Eegent with fre- 
quent anecdotes and witty sayings from both Lisbon 
and the Brazils. His sayings made everybody laugh, 
and his droll manner was inimitable. He had a 
mania for relating stories about women, which some- 
times made even the Eegent blush. At dinner at 
Carlton House one day he observed that some men 
were addicted to extraordinary tastes, and com- 
menced a story in illustration, when the Prince ex- 
claimed, " Halt ! no more at present, De Souza. 
You shall tell us the rest when the cloth is removed." 
After the servants had retired, the Prince said, " Now, 
De Souza, continue the story which you began 
during dinner." "Well, your Eoyal Highness, my 
story will not occupy much time ; it is merely that 
a friend of mine in Lisbon was exceedingly fond of 
peacock's tails." " Well, what then V " Ah ! your 
Eoyal Highness, he preferred those ornaments to the 
most beautiful women : indeed, he was so infatuated 
with them, that he sometimes fancied himself a pea- 
cock/' " Come, come, De Souza, this is too much : 



254 Lord Hay and the Prince Regent 

we cannot swallow such nonsense." "Well, sire, I can 
only vouch for what I saw, and that was, a nun 
rubbing down the tails upon my friend's back, and 
saying, What a beautiful bird you are!" 

Lord Hay and the Prince Regent. — At the 
Prince Regent's first levee, in 1815, Lord Hay, eldest 
son of the Earl of Errol, was presented with other 
officers of the Guards to have the honour of kissing 
hands ; when the Prince gave bis hand to be kissed, 
the young nobleman, unversed in court etiquette, 
caught hold of it and shook it with all his might. The 
Prince, though a very proud and formal personage, 
seeing the youth of the young soldier, took the salute 
in good part, and inquired how the Earl of Errol 
was. Lord James Murray, observing that something 
had occurred which was creating a laugh at the ex- 
pense of his young countryman, good-naturedly took 
him by the arm and removed him from the royal 
presence. " What have you been doing, Lord Hay," 
inquired Lord James Murray, " to be the cause of so 
much mirth V "I don't know, unless it was that I 
shook the Prince's hand with all my might." " Only 
that, my Lord ! " replied Lord James ; " why, you 
have committed a flagrant breach of etiquette." 
" How so 1 " inquired Lord Hay. " Why, you 
ought only to have placed the royal hand to your 
mouth, instead of shaking it." " Oh, my Lord, I 
will make amends. I will return and apologise to 
his Royal Highness." " No, no, Lord Hay; that will 
make matters worse." The same evenino- Lord James 
Murray dined with the Prince, and mentioned to his 
Royal Highness what Lord Hay proposed doino-, by 
way of making amends for his gaucherie. The Prince 



The Prince Regent and Carlton House. 255 

was extremely amused, and observed, lie never had 
seen so handsome a young soldier in the uniform of 
the Guards. 

Lord Hay, a few days subsequently, left England, 
for Brussels, to join his regiment, the 1st Foot Guards ; 
and at the battle of Quatre Bras, whilst gallantly lead- 
ing his company in a charge against the French sharp- 
shooters, this young nobleman received a musket ball 
in the heart, which, of course, caused instant death. 

In those days the 1st Foot Guards were officered, 
by some of the handsomest young men that Eng- 
land could boast of. I recollect with pride the 
names of several of them, viz. : — The two Foxes, 
"William and Sackville ; the two Bridgemans ; Johnny 
Lyster, Augustus Dashwood, Cradock, Daniel Tighe, 
Douglas, Erskine of Mar, Alix, Thoroton, Lord Hay, 
Barrington, Langrishe, and many others whose names, 
alas ! I now forget. But as nothing is perfect in 
this world, I must in justice state, that notwithstand- 
ing the noble list I have particularised, there were in 
the regiment one or two of the ugliest men, perhaps, 
that the world ever beheld. 

The Prince Regent and Carlton House. — 
One of the meanest and most ugly edifices that 
ever disfigured London, notwithstanding it was 
screened by a row of columns, was Carlton House, 
the residence of the Prince Regent. It was con- 
demned by everybody who possessed taste ; and 
Canova the sculptor, on being asked his opinion 
of it, said, "There are at Rome a thousand build- 
ings more beautiful, and whose architecture is in 
comparison faultless, any one of which would be 
more suitable for a princely residence than that ugly 



256 The Prince Regent and Carlton House. 

barn." This building was constantly under repair, 
but never improved, for no material alterations were 
made in its appearance. The first step towards 
improvement should have been to give it a coat 
of " lime-wash/' for it was blackened with dust and 
soot. Apropos of the alterations : the workmen en- 
gaged therein were a great source of annoyance to 
the Prince, who, pretending that he did not like to 
be stared at, objected to their entering by the gate- 
way. It is certain that the Prince Eegent kept him- 
self as much aloof as possible from the lower class 
of his subjects, and was annoyed by the natural 
curiosity of those who hold that as " a cat may look 
at a king," permission for that luxury should not 
be denied to bipeds. 

I recollect that, having called, when on guard, 
upon Sir Benjamin Bloomfield about the sale of a 
cob, which he gave me to understand he wanted for 
the Prince Eegent, while conversing we were inter- 
rupted by the entrance of the Prince, attended by 
M'Mahon and the eccentric "Tommy Tit." His 
Eoyal Highness was in an angry humour, and 
blurted out in his rage, " I will not allow those 
maid-servants to look at me when I go in and out; 
and if I find they do so again, I will have them 
discharged." I could hardly believe my ears, that 
a man born to the highest rank could take um- 
brage at such pardonable curiosity. But while 
riding in Hyde Park the next day, I was joined by 
General Baylie, who it seemed had been a spectator 
of this outburst of wrath: he told me that the 
Prince constantly complained of the servants star- 
ing at him, and that strict orders had been given 
to discharge any one caught repeating the offence, 



Lord Bavrymore. 257 

Lord Barrymore. — This nobleman came of a 
very old family, and when of age succeeded to a fine 
estate. He acquired no small degree of notoriety 
from his love of pugilism and cock-fighting ; but 
his forte lay in driving, and few coachmen on the 
northern road could " tool " a four-in-hand like 
him. His Lordship was one of the founders of the 
" Whip Club." The first time I ever saw Lord 
Barrymore was one fine evening while taking a 
stroll in Hyde Park. The weather was charming, 
and a great number of the oon-ton had assembled 
to witness the departure of the Four-in-Hand Club. 
Conspicuous among all the " turns-out " was that 
of his Lordship, who drove four splendid grays, un- 
matched in symmetry, action, and power. Lord 
Barrymore was, like Byron and Sir Walter Scott, 
club-footed. I discovered this defect the moment 
he got off his box to arrange something wrong in the 
harness. If there had been a competitive examina- 
tion, the prize of which would be given to the most 
proficient in slang and vulgar phraseology, it would 
nave been safe to back his Lordship as the winner 
against the most foul-mouthed of costermongers ; for 
the way he blackguarded his servants for the mis- 
adjustment of a strap was horrifying. On return- 
ing home, I dressed and went to the Club to dine, 
where I alluded to the choice morsels of English 
vernacular that had fallen from the noble whip's 
mouth in addressing his servants, and was assured 
that such was his usual language when out of 
temper. 

In addition to his " drag " in the " Four-in-hand 
Club," Lord Barrymore sported a very pretty " Stan- 
hope," in which he used to drive about town, ac- 

R 



258 Lord Barrymore. 



companied by a little boy, whom the world denomi- 
nated his tiger. It was reported that Lord Barry- 
more had, in his younger days, been taken much 
notice of by the Prince Kegent ; in fact, he had 
been the boon companion of His Eoyal Highness, 
and had assisted at the orgies that used to take 
place at Carlton House, where he was a constant 
visitor. Notwithstanding this, Lord Barrymore 
was considered by those intimately acquainted with 
him to be a man of literary talents. He certainly 
was an accomplished musician, a patron of the 
drama, and a great friend of Cooke, Kean, and the 
two Kembles ; yet I have heard a host of crimes 
attributed to his Lordship. This, if not a libel, 
showed that the connexion existing between the 
Prince Eegent and this nobleman could not have 
been productive of good results, and tends to con- 
firm the impression that the profligate life led by 
His Eoyal Highness and those admitted to his in- 
timacy was such, as to make it a matter of wonder 
that such scandalous scenes of debauchery could be 
permitted in a country like ours. Indeed, his ac- 
quaintance with the Prince ruined Lord Barrymore 
both in mind, body, and estate. While participating 
in the Eegent's excesses, he had bound himself to 
do his bidding, however palpably iniquitous it 
might be ; and when he was discarded, in accord- 
ance with that Prince's habit of treating his favour- 
ites, he left Carlton House ruined in health and 
reputation. 

Lord Barrymore during his last years was a mar- 
tyr to the gout and other diseases ; and on his 
deathbed he was haunted by the recollection of 
what he had been, and the thought of what he might 



Lord Byron and Dan Machinnon. 259 

have become : indeed, the last scene of his profli- 
gate life, when tortured by the inward reproaches 
of his accusing conscience, was harrowing in the 
extreme. 

Lord Byron and Dan Mackinnon. — During 
Lord Byron's sojourn at Lisbon, he was much 
amused with Dan Mackinnon's various funny 
stories. Upon one occasion Dan's time was en- 
tirely taken up by presenting women with tooth- 
brushes, a supply of which he had received by the 
packet from London. Opposite his quarters there 
lived two very pretty Portuguese ladies, who, un- 
mindful of Dan's proximity, and of the fact that 
his windows commanded a view of their chamber, 
dressed, undressed, and went through their morning 
ablutions and toilet. Dan's astonishment was great 
when he perceived that the fair ones never brushed 
their teeth ; and he lost no time in sending his ser- 
vant with two tooth-brushes in paper, well perfumed 
and sealed up. The ladies opened the packet, and 
appeared delighted with the present; but judge of 
Mackinnon's horror in beholding those dainty crea- 
tures perseveringly brushing their raven locks with 
the tiny brushes ! 

Lord Byron was a great admirer of well-formed 
hands : he preferred a pretty hand to a pretty 
face. He was asked whether he admired pretty 
feet : his answer was, " that he never went so 
low ; " " and as for teeth," said he, " a blackamoor 
has as white a set of teeth as the fairest lady in the 
land." His Lordship added, " A Frenchman thinks 
very little of the teeth, face, or colour of the hair ; 
provided a woman put on her cashmere veil in a 



260 Caricature on the Allied Sovereigns. 

graceful manner and is well shod, then he is in 
raptures with her." 

Dan Mackinnon was ever in good spirits and 
good humour, and he was a great swell both in 
Lisbon and London. His calm smile, black eyes, 
and splendid figure, when he strutted in uniform 
down St James's Street, struck every one with 
admiration. He was the most active man I ever 
saw : he would run, jump, and climb against the 
most expert professional gymnasts. 

Caricature on the Allied Sovereigns.— I re- 
collect a droll caricature in Paris, which created 
much amusement among the crowds that thronged 
the Boulevards. It represented the Emperor of 
Austria seated in a magnificent carriage, with the 
Emperor of Eussia on the box as coachman, the 
Prince Regent of England as postilion, and the King 
of Prussia as footman. The Emperor Napoleon was 
portrayed as a running footman, holding the handle 
of the carriage door, and saying to the Emperor of 
Austria, then his father-in-law, "Beau pe?-e,ils m'ont 
mis dehors — et moi ils m'ont mis dedans." 

It was stated in well-informed circles, that, up to 
the very moment the Bourbons entered Paris, the 
Emperor of Austria had not the slightest idea that 
the dethronement of the King of Pome, and the ban- 
ishment of his father, were contemplated by the 
allied Sovereigns. But the English declared that 
the Bourbons were the legitimate Royal Family of 
France ; and by the aid of a bribe to Metternich, 
and the exercise of their continental influence, which 
was then unlimited, the claim of the son of the Em- 
peror Napoleon was set aside, 



Breguet, the French Watchmaker. 261 

Breguet, the French Watchmaker. — This cele- 
brated man was greatly encouraged by the Allies in 
1815. The Emperor Alexander purchased several 
of his unequalled watches, and the Duke of Welling- 
ton also had one which, on touching a spring at any 
time, struck the hour and minute. The Duke car- 
ried it for many years, and it proved of great ser- 
vice to him on many occasions : it cost, I was told, 
three hundred guineas. The Duke and Duchess of 
Berri, the Marquis of Londonderry, Lords Beau- 
champ, Chesterfield, Bruce, and many others, were 
also customers of Breguet ; who was, without doubt, 
the best and most scientific watchmaker known. I 
frequently visited his shop, and had many conver- 
sations with him ; and, although at that time get- 
ting old, he was full of energy and vivacity. He 
was not an advocate for flat watches, as he said they 
impeded the proper action of the wheels and could 
not be depended upon as time-keepers : he defied 
any one to make a watch so good as those made on 
his own principle. The prices he paid to his best 
workmen were enormous ; there being few to whom 
he could confide his watches, as so many were drunk- 
ards, and could only work a day or two in the 
week. He told me that he paid some of them thirty 
francs a day, and none less than a napoleon ; and 
that throughout Paris there were only fifteen or 
twenty able to execute the delicate work necessary 
for such watches as he made. 

Breguet was a great encourager of merit : he 
used to say to his young workmen, " Don't be dis- 
couraged, or allow a failure to dishearten you ; acci- 
dents will happen, miscalculations cannot altogether 
be avoided : be persevering, industrious, sober, and 



262 Fouche and Carnot. 



honest." Such was the advice he gave, and he fre- 
quently enabled those in his employ who were skil- 
ful, steady, and. industrious, to arrive at opulence. 
Breguet, besides his scientific knowledge and me- 
chanical skill, possessed great general information. 
Napoleon himself, knowing his abilities, frequently 
went incognito to the workshop and conversed upon 
the improvements which he was anxious to effect in 
cannon and fire-arms. The Russian campaign and 
its disasters put an end to all projects on that score. 

Labedoyere and the Number Thirteen. — In 
1815 Labedoyere, one of Napoleon's aide-de-camps, 
paid a visit to the Malmaison prior to the fallen mon- 
arch's departure for Cherbourg. The dinner hour 
arrived, and when the company were seated, Queen 
Hortense observed that the ominous number of 
thirteen had assembled, and that, according to the 
prevalent superstition, one of them would inevitably 
die before the expiration of a year. Labedoyere 
remarked, " In all probability your Majesty's pre- 
diction will be verified in me ; for the Bourbons 
will never forgive the part I played in joining the 
Emperor on his return from Elba." The dinner 
proceeded, and nothing more was thought of the 
speech ; but before a year was over, poor Labe- 
doyere's anticipations were realised : he was seized 
by the police, brought before a court-martial com- 
posed of legitimists, and condemned to die, for hav- 
ing all his life espoused one cause, and fought for 
it bravely. 

Fouche and Carnot. — During the latter part 
of the reign of Louis XVIII. his majesty nominated 



L 'Enfant de Troupe. 263 

Fouche as his Minister of Police. To propitiate 
the Bourbonists, this man desired many of his former 
friends and associates to quit France, without assign- 
ing a cause. Among those who received this unex- 
pected congS was the celebrated General Carnot, 
who wrote the following laconic epistle to Fouche : 
" Ou veux tu que faille, traitre f" to which the fol- 
lowing answer was given : " Oil tu voudras, imbe- 
cile!' Both Foucb^ and Carnot had voted for the 
death of the unpopular Louis XVL, but had subse- 
quently served as ministers to the Emperor. 

L'Enpant de Troupe. — A sergeant in the 16th 
Dragoons, dying suddenly, and leaving his child, a 
fine boy, entirely unprovided for, without any one 
to take care of him, the officers of the regiment 
interested themselves in the little fellow's welfare, 
and adopted him. He was brought up with great 
care, and received a very good education ; and as he 
was a remarkably clever youth, and his conduct 
was unimpeachable, he made great progress in his 
studies. He became a thorough musician, and could 
play upon several instruments, and his aptitude 
for learning languages was astonishing : he could 
speak fluently Spanish, Portuguese, French, and 
German, and had a fair knowledge of almost every 
continental language. Having attained to the rank 
of sergeant in the Peninsula, on the return of the 
regiment to England he was sent, under the charge 
of an officer, to continue his military studies at 
Clifton House ; and he afterwards attended Colonel 
Peter's drill in Pimlico to learn the German method 
of riding (thanks to the Prince Eegent's love of 
change in every department of the army.) 



264 Incident at a Ball at the British Embassy. 

Having obtained an entree into the houses of 
several city families, and being a remarkably clever 
horseman, and possessing a fine figure and good 
looks, he became somewhat neglectful of his military 
duties, passing most of his time among the citizen's 
wives and daughters. A young lady, the daughter 
of a rich merchant, fell desperately in love with 
him, and the end of it was that our dashing young 
sergeant married her privately ; absenting himself 
for the purpose several days from Colonel Peter's 
drill without leave, and when he returned it was to 
give himself up as a deserter. His wife, who was 
very beautiful, and who had returned with him, 
flung herself on her knees before the commanding- 
officer to implore pardon for her husband, who was, 
notwithstanding, placed under arrest; but at the 
court-martial held on the matter he was, on the 
certificates of the officers of his regiment, acquitted. 
His discharge was obtained with his wife's money, 
and he was afterwards appointed second in com- 
mand of one of our Indian Irregular corps ; in which 
country he ended his somewhat eventful life. 

Incident at a Ball at the British Embassy 
in Paris, 1816. — During the reign of the Bour- 
bons, society was, as now, divided into two or more 
classes ; the nobility on the one hand, and the rich 
mercantile men on the other. The latter studiously 
copied their betters in dress, manner, and style of 
living ; but as a system of exclusiveness was ob- 
served, which militated against their being admitted 
into the best salons, great interest was necessary 
to overcome the obstacle to their admission. A 
beautiful woman, the wife of a rich banker, being 



Unknown Persons at a Ball. 265 

desirous of getting an invitation to a bal costume 
given at the British Embassy in Paris, induced Mr 
James Rothschild, the great financier, to ask Lady 
Elizabeth Stuart, the Ambassadress, for an invita- 
tion. The entree being obtained by means of a 
ticket obtained by stealth from Sir Charles Stuart, 
the lady set about choosing a costume, and decided 
on appearing as Diana ; but, not having been 
classically educated, she did not bear in mind 
that chastity was a distinguishing characteristic of 
the goddess she intended to represent. The con- 
sequence was, that her appearance was such as 
to lead any one, not versed in Greek mythology, 
to suppose that the country in which Diana 
hunted must have lain in some happy region near 
the equator, where the scantiest drapery was the 
most agreeable costume. The lady, with a tri- 
umphant air, that was regarded as effrontery, 
entered the ballroom dressed, or rather undressed, 
as described, and approached the British Ambas- 
sadress, who, astonished at the exhibition, turned 
her back, and studiously avoided compromising 
herself by even looking at the lady during the 
rest of the evening ; informing the visitors present, 
her friends, that the " Jew " was alone responsible 
for the immodest appearance of this representative 
of the chaste goddess. 

Unknown Persons at a Ball at the British 
Embassy, Paris. — When the late Lord Cowley was 
Ambassador in Paris, Lady Cowley, during a ball 
that was being given at the Embassy, observed a 
face in the crowd of visitors that she was unac- 
quainted with ; she accordingly interrogated his 



266 Unknown Persons at a Ball. 

Lordship's private secretary and the master of the 
ceremonies, but neither could find the slightest clue 
as to who the gentleman was. Mr Bulwer, perceiv- 
ing her Ladyship in trouble, offered his services to 
find out the name of the unknown guest, and boldly 
advancing towards him, accosted him in French, 
saying, " I am sent by Lady Cowley to kuow your 
name." Whereupon the stranger replied, " Before I 
gratify you with mine, perhaps you will let me know 
yours ; for your manner is excessively impertinent, 
and you require to be made an example of." Bul- 
wer replied, that his rank as Secretary of the Embassy 
authorised him to make the inquiry, as the Ambassa- 
dress did not know him. This elicited the stranger's 
name and address : he was the Marquis D . 

The following morning this nobleman called upon 
me, and mentioned what had occurred the previous 
evening ; he swore that he would run Bulwer through 
the body for the insult offered him, and requested 
me to be the bearer of a challenge to the offender. 
I however took upon myself the responsibility of 
arranging the matter without consulting any one, 
and succeeded in calming the fury of the irate Mar- 
quis ; I assured him that Bulwer was the last man 
in the world intentionally to insult any one, espe- 
cially a French nobleman with whom he was totally 
unacquainted, and used other arguments to convince 
him that no affront was intended ; thus preventing 
a meeting. 

During the same evening, Lady Cowley disco- 
vered another stranger, and applied to Windsor 
Heneage to enlighten her respecting hi m . Heneage 
replied, " I know one thing of him ; but that he lives 
in the Rue Basse du Eampart, and sold me a si] 



A Musician's Reproof. 26 7 

teapot not later than yesterday." The master of the 
ceremonies was sent for, and desired to request the 
silversmith to inform him how he dared appear at 
the ball without an invitation. The man replied, 
" But I had one : I received a ticket." " Then be 
pleased to produce it," was the request of the master 
of the ceremonies. " I left it on my mantelpiece," 
said the intruder. " Then go and fetch it." The 
intruder departed on the errand and it is hardly 
necessary to say that he did not return. 

A Musician's Eeproof. — Among those of the 
fashionable world in London who patronised music, 
early after the peace, no one was more conspicuous 
than Lady Flint ; whose charming concerts, given 
generally on Sunday at her house in Birdcage 
Walk, delighted all who had musical tastes and en- 
joyed the honour of an invitation. Among the 
musicians present there were Dusseck and Cramer, 
who played on the piano, and were accompanied by 
Viotti and Jarnowickz, the celebrated violin play- 
ers. Lady Flint's desire to gratify her friends, how- 
ever, was often frustrated by the annoying conduct 
of those who had no taste for music, who disturbed 
the enjoyment of some of the most beautiful pieces 
by the rattling of their cups and saucers, and the 
tone in which their conversation was carried on. 
Jarnowickz, the violin player, having upon one occa- 
sion commenced a concerto by Beethoven, accom- 
panied by his little orchestra, consisting of Cramer, 
Spagnoletti,Lindley, and Dragonetti, suddenly ceased 
playing, and apologised for so doing by stating, that 
the discord caused by the tea-drinkers was such as 
to mar the effect of the immortal composer's music. 



263 Lord Alvanley. 



He added, that those who thus showed that they 
did not understand music, would perhaps appreciate 
better the piece which he was about to play, — viz., 
" God save the King," to which they would listen at 
least with respect. The reproof had a good effect, 
for always afterwards a complete silence reigned 
during the performance. 

Lokd Alvanley. — When Alvanley was at col- 
lege, he was smitten with a sudden thirst for mi- 
litary glory, and a pair of colours in the Coldstream 
Guards, then commanded by the late Duke of York, 
was given him. He became the Duke of York's bosom 
friend, and this unfortunately led him to become 
reckless in money matters. Upon one occasion 
George Anson, afterwards General Anson, asked 
Alvanley at White's if he felt disposed to join a 
water party on the Thames, at which his cousin, Lord 
Ellenborough, and several pretty women of fashion 
would assemble. He assented, inquiring where they 
were to dine. Anson replied, he never thought of 
dining. " Well, never mind, Anson ; I will give in- 
structions on that head." Accordingly, he told 
Gunter to supply the party with a good dinner, to 
hire the largest boat on the Thames, to have it car- 
peted and covered with an awning, and make it as 
comfortable as possible, and to hire twelve boat- 
men : in short, nothing was to be wanting. The 
fete succeeded to the satisfaction of all parties; 
but Alvanley paid Gunter two hundred guineas for 
his folly. 

Apart from his extravagance, Alvanley, the mag- 
nificent, the witty, the famous, and chivalrous, 
was the idol of the clubs, and of society, from 



Sir Astley Cooper and the Troop Horses. 269 

the king to the ensign of the Guards. All sorts 
of stories used to be told of his recklessness 
about money When Lord Alvanley succeeded 
to his father's fortune, he inherited an income of 
eioht thousand pounds a year ; when he died, he 
did not leave to his brother, who succeeded to the 
title, above two thousand. Armstrong, full of biting 
sarcasm, well knowing that the noble Lord never 
paid ready money for anything, asked him the price 
of a splendid hunter he had just purchased. " I owe 
Mathe Milton three hundred guineas for it," was 
the characteristic reply. 

There is another amusing story of Alvanley' s ex- 
travagance. His dinners were considered perfect, 
and -the best in London. He had given directions 
to have a cold apricot tart every clay throughout 
the year, and his rnaitre d'hotel remonstrating with 
him upon the expense, Alvanley replied, "Go to 
Gunter's, the confectioner, and purchase all the pre- 
served apricots, and don't plague me any more about 
the expense." 

The great charm of Alvanley's manner was its 
naturalness, or naivete. He was an excellent classi- 
cal scholar, a good speaker, and whatever he under- 
took he succeeded in. He had lived in nearly every 
court of Europe, had a vast acquaintance with the 
world, and his knowledge of languages was great. 
When he was recommended to pay his debts, he 
gave a list of them to his friend " Punch " Greville, 
but forgot to insert one of fifty thousand pounds 
which he owed. 

Sir Astley Cooper and the Troop Horses. 
— Sir Astley Cooper, independently of his great 



270 Italian Brigandage in 1815. 

skill in surgery, was a very clever and humane 
man. He was exceedingly fond of horses, and 
whenever an opportunity occurred, would operate 
on these animals with the same judgment and skill 
that he bestowed on his human patients. After the 
battle of Waterloo, all the wounded horses of the 
Household Brigade of cavalry were sold by auction. 
Sir Astley attended the sale, and bought twelve, 
which he considered so severely hurt as to require 
the greatest care and attention in order to effect a 
cure. Having had them conveyed, under the care 
of six grooms, to his park in the country, the great 
surgeon followed, and with the assistance of his 
servants, commenced extracting bullets and grape- 
shot from the bodies and limbs of the suffering 
animals. In a very short time after the operations 
had been performed, Sir Astley let them loose in 
the park ; and one morning, to his great delight, he 
saw the noble animals form in line, charge, and then 
retreat, and afterwards gallop about, appearing 
greatly contented with the lot that had befallen 
them. These manoeuvres were repeated generally 
every morning, to his great satisfaction and amuse- 
ment. 

Italian Brigandage in 1815. — In the sober age 
we now live in, when Englishmen can travel from Dan 
to Beersheba almost without molestation, John Bull 
hears with surprise that his friends on an excursion 
in Italy, not half a mile from a populous town, were 
seized by a party of brigands, and only liberated on 
paying a ransom of some thousands of pounds. In 
1815, however, these occurrences were very com- 
mon. In fact, at that time both Italy and Spain 



Italian Brigandage in 18.15, 271 

swarmed with banditti, and travellers in those 
countries were generally accompanied by an escort 
of cavalry when in dangerous districts. 

Two English gentlemen — Lord Valletort, son of 
Lord Mount-Edgecumbe, and- the Hon. Mr Colly er, 
only son of Lord Milsington, and heir to an immense 
fortune — decided on visiting Italy. In those days 
Englishmen exhibited more ostentation when tra- 
velling than they do now ; and these two young 
scions of nobility proved no exception to the rule, 
for they started from London carrying baggage 
enough to stock a clothes-shop, and money in their 
pockets sufficient to form the capital of a provincial 
bank : nothing was forgotten, in short, that might 
mitigate the hardships of travel. They carried all 
the luxuries of Pall Mall and St James's Street with 
them. Of course, they had engaged a courier ; and 
as character was not so much an object as cleverness 
and insolence, some of the greatest blackguards and 
thieves in the world were often candidates for such 
a situation ; although, from the accounts of Italian 
brigandage appearing daily in the papers, the cause 
of the misadventures that befell travellers was in- 
variably traced to the couriers who accompanied 
them, and who gave notice to the bandits if they 
were worth robbing. Our young friends had picked 
up from the purlieus of Leicester Square one of 
these fellows, to accompany them on their travels, — 
an Italian, without a character as usual, but of 
engaging manners. But how men could be so 
deluded as to walk into a trap in the manner these 
two tourists did is incomprehensible. However, 
they embarked for the Continent provided with 
baggage and money enough to tempt the brigands, 



_J / -J 



Italian Brigandage in 1815. 



even without a courier to victimise them, and after 
visiting several continental cities en route, at length 
found themselves at Kome, where they engaged an 
old palace and lived in splendour for some time, 
spending their money like princes, and making 
themselves the talk of the city. 

At length they determined on making an excur- 
sion to the south of Italy, and ordering their bag- 
gage to be packed up, they started on their journey, 
accompanied by their courier. Immediately before 
reaching Fondi, the carriage was stopped, a party of 
brigands made their appearance, and our travellers, 
with pistols held at their heads, were commanded 
to give up all that they had. Lord Valletort, who 
was very hot-headed, made some show of resistance, 
and had his brains blown out instantly ; while poor 
Collyer, exasperated at the foul deed, snatched a 
pistol from the hands of one of the gang and shot 
him dead ; he was then dragged out of the carriage 
and brutally murdered on the way-side. It is 
hardly necessary to state that every article of value 
was taken from the persons and baggage of our 
murdered countrymen, and that the courier dis- 
appeared with the assassins, and was never more 
heard of. 

This foul deed, among hosts of others, was never 
avenged ; for we could not then, any more than now, 
afford to quarrel with a nation like Italy on a per- 
sonal matter. Very different would have been the 
conduct of France in such an emergency. A frigate 
would have been despatched to the scene of the 
outrage, and a dozen of the peasantry (who are 
generally either brigands or in league with banditti) 
would have been hanged or shot in reprisal. When 



Madame de Stael — The Duchess of Bur as. 273 

Napoleon I. was in Italy, lie issued orders that for 
every Frenchman or French soldier ill-treated or 
killed by brigands, a dozen villagers should be shot ; 
and after finishing off about 700 of those pests in 
Italy, he established a respect for French lynch law 
that lasted the whole time of his occupation of that 
peninsula ; as soon, however, as the French left 
Italy, this state of things was instantly changed, 
and brigandage has existed from that time up to 
the present : for England is held, as a power by 
itself, in sovereign contempt by the whole of the 
hordes that infest Terracina and the spots so graphi- 
cally described by Washington Irving. 

Madame de Stael and Mr Canning. — Ma- 
dame de Stael, with all her talents and attractions, 
was somewhat of a toady. At one of the Duchesse 
de Castris' soirtes I witnessed a quarrel between 
her and Mr Canning. Madame de Stael thought 
that by abusing Lord Castlereagh she would obtain 
favour from our great statesman ; he, however, 
coolly informed her that the manner in which she 
had spoken of his political adversary prevented him 
from continuing to converse with her, and then 
made his bow, to the surprise of those present. 
Madame de Stael was so angry that she actually 
foamed at the mouth. 

The Duchess oe Dukas. — The Duchess of Duras 
was considered a clever and witty woman. She 
disliked Wellington very much, for having allowed 
the pictures and statues in the Louvre to be re- 
moved and sent as presents to the sovereigns 
among the allies. The Apollo Belvidere, which had 

s 



274 Mr and Mrs Graham — their Soire'es. 

been given to the Duke by the Pope, was once 
the cause of a dispute between Wellington and this 
high-spirited lady. On meeting him one day she 
inquired what he intended doing with the statue. 
He replied that he was going to have it packed up 
aud sent to London. " Then," replied she, " Eng- 
land will possess one god the more, but one man 
the less." " How 1 " inquired our hero. " Why," 
replied the lady, "she will gain in possessing the 
statue, but her honour and yours will be sacrificed 
by this piece of Vandalism." The far-famed statue 
however, was not sent to England. 

Mr and Mrs Graham — their Soirees. — In the 
year 1816, a Mr Graham and his wife, a pretty 
Sicilian lady, lived in Paris in their charming hotel 
in the Eue Taitbout. This gentleman, who be- 
longed to an ancient Scotch family, went to Sicily 
during the continental war, where he met with his 
wife , and, by the good offices of Lord and Lady 
William Bentinck, the young couple were intro- 
duced into the best society Mrs Graham's re- 
unions were considered charming. The celebrated 
Prince Metternich, with his beautiful wife, Lady 
Oxford and her daughters, Mr and Mrs Cavendish 
Bradshaw, Mr and Mrs Hervey Aston, were her 
constant visitors ; Pozzo di Borgo, the Eussian 
ambassador, Baron Vincent, and Alava, the Aus- 
trian and Spanish representatives, also visited the 
Grahams frequently. 

It is remarkable that all these diplomatists had 
accompanied the Duke of Wellington at Waterloo, 
and received wounds in that terrible battle. Met- 
ternich was considered by all who knew him to be 



Mr and Mrs Graham. — their Soirees. 275 

one of the most astute and witty members of the 
corps diplomatique ; but few are aware of the acute- 
ness and sagacity evinced by Pozzo, who was the 
inveterate enemy of the first Napoleon. He was a 
Corsican by birth, and in his youth a constant play- 
mate of the younger members of the Bonaparte 
family ; but when the Eevolution had caused 
nearly all the respectable families of Corsica to 
quit that island, Pozzo determined to try his for- 
tune in Eussia ; where he succeeded in thwarting 
Napoleon's schemes in almost every instance. Dur- 
ing the continental war he came to England, 
where, by his wise counsel, he prevailed upon our 
Cabinet to send subsidies to Eussia and Germany 
Napoleon ever afterwards entertained a most vio- 
lent hatred against Pozzo ; and on hearing his name 
mentioned, he would fly into a terrible rage, and 
exclaim, " The fellow is a traitor ;. he is ever in my 
way : he is like the erysipelas on the body. What- 
ever harm he can do me he does ; and by him my 
brain is constantly disturbed, and my nervous system 
kept constantly on the rack." Pozzo was born in the 
same year in which Bonaparte, Wellington, and Met- 
ternich first saw the light. He died very rich, and his 
nephew, who married into one of the oldest families 
in France, succeeded to his property. 

To return to the Grahams : The charming Mrs 
Graham was courted by all who approached her; 
and such was the glow of health and cheerfulness in 
her countenance, that no one could, be in her com- 
pany long without being inspired with feelings 
stronger than those of friendship : yet not a word 
was heard against her honour. She had lived 
happily with her husband for forty years without 



276 Mr Williams Hope and his Mistress. 



being blessed with a child ; but before her hus- 
band's death, to the amazement and astonishment 
of all her friends and of the family doctor, she bore 
a son, like Sarah of old. The heir-presumptive 
disputed the legitimacy of the little stranger, but 
evidence was forthcoming to prove that all was 
perfectly en regie; and the young Scottish chief- 
tain, who will shortly attain his majority and in- 
herit a splendid fortune, was acknowledged as the 
bond fide son of the aged couple. 

Mr Williams Hope and his Mistress. — This 
gentleman inherited on coming of age a fortune of 
£40,000 sterling a year from his reputed father, a 
Dutchman. He exhibited alternately extreme reck- 
lessness in expenditure and the stinginess of a miser. 
He would one day spend thousands of pounds on 
a ball or supper, and then keep his servants for 
days on cold meat and stale bread. His mistress, 
Mile. Jenny Coulon, a charming actress, told me 
that Mr Hope, suspecting her of infidelity, break- 
fasted with her at her lodgings as if nothing had 
occurred, and on leaving said, "Oh, my dear, I 
wish you would give me your diamonds, that I 
may have them newly set." Jenny, never imagin- 
ing that her lover had the remotest idea of playing 
her false, readily gave them to him ; and a fort- 
night afterwards he returned the ornaments, ex- 
pressing a hope that she would be pleased with the 
setting. On the following day, what was Jenny's 
horror at receiving a visit from the jeweller, who 
called upon her with a bill "for taking out the 
diamonds and replacing them with paste." The 
enraged fair one applied to the police for redress, 



II ow to get Invited to a Ball. 277 

but found she had no remedy, having voluntarily re- 
linquished all claim on the diamonds by giving them 
up to the donor. Yet this man has been known to 
portion the daughter of a lady of rank with £20,000. 

How to get Invited to a Ball. — Mr Williams 
Hope's large fortune enabled him to give the most 
splendid entertainments to the beau monde of Paris. 
At his balls and parties all the notables of the city 
were to be seen, and no expense was spared to 
make them the most sumptuous entertainments 
then given. It was his custom, when the invita- 
tions were issued, not to open any letters till the 
party was over; to save him the mortification of 
refusing those who had not been invited. 

It happened that a certain Marquis, well known 
in Paris, who had married the sister of a prince, was 
desirous of being present at one of these assemblies, 
and accordingly wrote, requesting the favour of an 
invitation for himself, his wife, and his wife's sister, 

the Princess de C . Receiving no answer, the 

Marquis called upon Mr Hope, who received him 
with his usual courtesy. The Marquis began by 
expressing his surprise that his letter had remained 
unanswered, when Mr Hope assured him that he 
had not received the letter in question ; explaining 
the custom before alluded to. This explanation, 
however, did not satisfy the Marquis, who observed 
that such a proceeding was, to say the least of it, 
extraordinary, as letters were generally written in 
expectation of their receiving an answer with the 
least possible delay ; and he added, " Mr Hope, by 
your conduct you have not only insulted me, my 
wife, and sister-in-law, but several of my friends, 



278 Melancholy Result of a Ball. 



I must therefore tell you, that the first time I meet 
you in the Champs Elysees or the Bois de Boulogne, 
I will give orders to my coachman to drive against 
your carriage ; which insult you will naturally 
resent." Mr Hope replied, " I am not of your 
opinion as to the necessity of having my carriage 
injured through the awkwardness or stupidity of 
your coachman ; and to avoid all further altercation, 
I will have the honour to send you as many cards 
of invitation to my noxt ball as you may wish for 
yourself and friends." 

The Marquis swallowed the bait, returned to his 
wife, overcame the objections as to the manner in 
which the entree was obtained, and appeared with 
her and his sister-in-law on the appointed evening. 
They were received with due honours, and when 
supper was announced, Mr Hope advanced towards 
the Princess, and offering her his arm, conducted her 
to the place of honour at his right hand at the 
supper-table. The rank of the Marquis and his 
sister-in-law had probably more influence than his 
threat in procuring for him the invitation, as 
the vanity and ostentation of Mr Hope were 
no less remarkable than his meanness and eccen- 
tricity. 

Melancholy Eesult of a Ball. — At one of 
Mr Williams Hope's balls, the crowd of visitors was 
so great that many persons were obliged, on leaving 
the saloons, to take shelter under an archway until 
the arrival of their carriages. The wind, a keen 
north-easter, was the cause of sore throat and fever 
to many of the fair visitors; and of those present, 
a General Didier and his wife, a remarkably hand- 



Sir Charles Shakerley. 279 



some couple, were seized with quinsy, and in eight- 
and-forty hours afterwards they both died, and 
were carried to their last resting-place at Pere la 
Chaise, Nantes. This lamentable event created an 
unusual sensation in Paris at the time, and was the 
theme of conversation in every quarter. When it 
was mentioned to a friend of mine, he coolly ob- 
served that he pitied the lady, but not the General, 
for it was a glorious end for a soldier to be killed 
by a ball. 

A Poland for an Oliver. — I recollect dining 
at the British Embassy at Paris when Lord Stuart 
was Ambassador. Among those invited were Long 
Wellesley and the elder Cornewall. The former of 
these gentlemen arrived very late, and was sarcasti- 
cally asked by Cornewall if he would take some 
cheese. Mr Wellesley replied in a good-natured 
manner, declining the offer, and commenced his 
dinner as if nothing had happened. When the 
finger-glasses were handed round, Mr Cornewall 
made use of the water in his, as one does when 
dressing, with a tumbler and wash-hand basin ; 
making, of course, an extraordinary noise with his 
mouth. Wellesley noticing this, leant over towards 
Cornewall, and quietly asked him if he should send 
one of the servants for a piece of soap, in order that 
he might complete his toilet. 

Sir Charles Shakerley. — This gentleman had 
a great horror of a dead body. On one occasion 
Henry Williams and some others were stopping at 
his house, when, some slight difference having 
arisen between him and Sir Charles, the latter spoke 



280 " Taking the Bull by the Horns:' 



in rather an abrupt manner. The visitors, knowing 
their host's antipathy, determined to pay him off 
by a practical joke, and accordingly came down the 
next morning looking very grave, and informed 
him that Williams was seriously ill. Shakerley 
hastened up stairs, and found Williams lying in 
bed, foaming at the mouth and rolling his eyes 
wildly. Sir Charles, struck with the thought that 
his guest might die, became alarmed, and was about 
to send for a conveyance to remove him ; but the 
"dying man" found it convenient to get better. 
When Sir Charles left the room, Williams took from 
his mouth a piece of soap, with which he had imi- 
tated the froth on the mouth of a man in a fit. Sir 
Charles was, however, so frightened, that he never 
said an unkind thing to the practical joker during 
the remainder of his visit. 

" Taking the Bull by the Horns." — The late 
Lord John Churchill, prior to his appointment as 
equerry to the lamented Duke of Sussex, com- 
manded a frigate of H. M. Navy in the Mediterra- 
nean. The doctor of the ship, a man of great 
medical experience and decision, was one day ex- 
patiating to his lordship on the efficacy of blisters, 
which, he stated, had cured all the sailors who had 
been attacked with fevers. Lord John replied, 
" All this may be quite true ; but if ever you apply 
a blister to any part of my body, by God, doctor, I 
will order my ship's company to throw you over- 
board." " Be it so, my Lord ; but you know I in- 
variably take the bull by the horns," replied the 
medico : and the matter then dropped. 

A short time afterwards, the noble captain was 



" Talcing the Bull by the Horns." 281 

seized with violent headache and fever, and his pulse 
was very high ; the doctor, therefore, determined 
" coute que coute " to apply his favourite remedy. 
Having prepared the blister, he contrived while 
Lord J. slept, to place it on his chest without 
awakening him ; he then retired to rest, but gave 
orders to be called if his presence was necessary. 
At an early hour the following morning, he was 
awoke by the captain's servant, who, looking more 
dead than alive said, that his Lordship was very vio- 
lent, foaming with rage, and calling out with all his 
might, " Where 's that damned doctor." The terri- 
fied medico found his patient in a state of exaspera- 
tion and excitement ; but upon feeling his pulse, 
ascertained that the fever had greatly abated. 
Lord J., though furious at the pain he was en- 
during, asked what the doctor had done to him, 
and quoting the " Corsair," added, — 

"Prepare thee to reply 
Clearly and full ; I love not mystery." 

" In a word, sir, what does it all mean % I am 
suffering from blisters all over my body." The 
doctor, unconscious of what had occurred during 
the night, opened the captain's shirt collar to look 
at the effects of the blister ; but the sufferer pushed 
him aside, saying, " No, doctor, it is not there ; you 
will find it lower down." Lower down it certainly 
was, for it was discovered, like the one mentioned 
in " Tom Cringle's Log," in a very awkward place. 
It had, no doubt, during the night, got rubbed off 
the chest and had slipped down to a very opposite 
part of the body, which was blistered severely. The 
doctor, to appease the captain's anger, explained : 
" I found your lordship last night in a violent fever, 



282 Raggett, of White's Club. 



and had no alternative left, but to take the bull by 
the horns : the blister was placed contrary to my 
orders, I confess ; but ' all 's well that ends well,' 
and I am happy to see your lordship so much 
better." 

Kagget, op White's Club. — Eaggett, the well- 
known club proprietor of White's, and the Eoxburgh 
Club in St James's Square, was a notable character 
in his way He began life as a poor man, and 
died extremely rich. It was his custom to wait 
upon the members of these clubs whenever play 
was going on. Upon one occasion at the Eoxburgh, 
the following gentlemen, Hervey Combe, Tippoo 
Smith, Ward (the Member for London,) and Sir 
John Malcolm, played at high stakes at whist ; 
they sat during that night, viz., Monday, the fol- 
lowing day and night, and only separated on Wed- 
nesday morning at eleven o'clock ; indeed, the party 
only broke up then owing to Hervey Combe being 
obliged to attend the funeral of one of his partners 
who was buried on that day. Hervey Combe, on 
looking over his card, found that he was a winner 
of thirty thousand pounds from Sir John Malcolm, 
and he jocularly said, "Well, Sir John, you shall 
have your revenge whenever you like." Sir John 
replied, "Thank you, another sitting of the kind 
will oblige me to return again to India." Hervey 
Combe, on settling with Eaggett, pulled out of his 
pocket a handful of counters, which amounted to 
several hundred pounds, over and above the thirty 
thousand he had won of the baronet, and he gave 
them to Eaggett, saying, " I give them to you for 
sitting so long with us, and providing us with all 



The Cafe Tortoni. 283 



required." Raggett was overjoyed, and in mention- 
ing what had occurred to one of his friends a few 
days afterwards, he added, " I make it a rule never 
to allow any of my servants to be present when 
gentlemen play at my clubs, for it is my invariable 
custom to sweep the carpet after the gambling is 
over, and I generally find on the floor a few 
counters, which pays me for the trouble of sitting 
up. By this means I have made a decent fortune." 

The Cafe Tortoni. — About the commencement 
of the present century, Tortoni, the centre of plea- 
sure, gallantry, and entertainment, was opened by a 
Neapolitan, who came to Paris to supply the Pari- 
sians with good ice. The founder of this celebrated 
cafe was by name Veloni, an Italian, whose father 
lived with Napoleon from the period he invaded 
Italy, when First Consul, down to his fall. Young 
Veloni brought with him his friend Tortoni, an in- 
dustrious and intelligent man. Veloni died of an 
affection of the lungs, shortly after the cafe was 
opened, and left the business to Tortoni ; who, by 
dint of care, economy, and perseverance, made his 
cafe renowned all over Europe. Towards the end 
of the first Empire, and during the return of the 
Bourbons, and Louis Philippe's reign, this establish- 
ment was so much in vogue that it was difficult to 
get an ice there ; after the opera and theatres were 
over, the Boulevards were literally choked up by 
the carriages of the great people of the court and the 
Faubourg St Germain bringing guests to Tortoni' s. 

In those days clubs did not exist in Paris, con- 
sequently the gay world met there. The Duchess of 
Berri, with her suite, came nearly every night incog- 



2S4 The Cafe Tortoni. 

nito ; the most beautiful women Paris could boast 
of, old maids, dowagers, and old and young men, 
pouring out their sentimental twaddle, and holding 
up to scorn their betters, congregated here. In 
fact, Tortoni's became a sort of club for fashionable 
people ; the saloons were completely monopolised 
by them, and became the rendezvous of all that was 
gay, and I regret to add, immoral. 

Gunter, the eldest son of the founder of the house 
in Berkeley Square, arrived in Paris about this period, 
to learn the art of making ice ; for prior to the 
peace, our London ices and creams were acknow- 
ledged, by the English as well as foreigners, to be 
detestable. In the early part of the day, Tortoni's 
became the rendezvous of duellists and retired offi- 
cers, who cono-reo-ated in great numbers to breakfast : 
which consisted of cold pates, game, fowl, fish, eggs, 
broiled kidneys, iced champagne, and liqueurs from 
every part of the globe. 

Though Tortoni succeeded in amassing a large 
fortune, he suddenly became morose, and showed 
evident signs of insanity : in fact, he was the most 
unhappy man on earth. On going to bed one night, 
he said to the lady who superintended the manage- 
ment of his cafe, " It is time for me to have done 
with the world." The lady thought lightly of what 
he said, but upon quitting her apartment on the fol- 
lowing morning, she was told by one of the waiters 
that Tortoni had hanged himself. 

Among the prominent and singular personages 
who used daily to visit this cafe was the Eussian 
Prince Tuffiakin, who was immensely rich, and 
perhaps the greatest epicure in Paris. When he 
attained the respectable age of seventy, he fell des- 



The Cafe Tortoni 285 

perately in love with a beautiful girl, named Anna 
Sinclair, who was born of Scotch parents. Upon 
one occasion, whilst sipping his ice, the old man 
observed his adored Anna ogling a young dandy, 
and a serious quarrel was the consequence ; how- 
ever, in course of time, a sort of truce was patched 
up between the lovers. The fair Scotch girl pro- 
mised never more to ogle, and the old man proposed 
the following plan of reconciliation ; they were both 
to meet at the church of Notre Dame de Lorette, 
and exchange rings at the altar, and afterwards to 
leave the church arm in arm. Though Tuffiakin 
was of a jealous disposition, he was nevertheless a 
great libertine, for he pretended to be in love with 
every pretty girl he met. He suddenly became 
enamoured of a well-known danseuse, who was 
living under the protection of an English nobleman. 
The Prince, well knowing the power of his money 
boldly presented himself at the lady's house, and by 
the application of an immense bribe of money and 
jewels, he succeeded in obtaining the good graces of 
the inconstant daughter of Terpsichore. This old 
Eussian debauche hastened his death by his excesses, 
and became an idiot. 

Among the English persons of note who usually 
met at Tortoni's, I recollect Lords Brudenell Bruce, 
Bingham, and Chesterfield ; also Lord Herbert, after- 
wards Earl of Pembroke, whom the French deno- 
minated Lair bete: not that the noble Lord was 
by any means deficient in intellect, but the envy 
and jealousy of the French were piqued ; for he was 
extremely handsome, and his equipages were the 
finest in Paris. Sir Henry Milmay, with his beau- 
tiful and accomplished wife, created an immense 



286 The Ca/6 Tortoni. 

sensation. Hall Standish, who spent fabulous sums 
upon pictures, dinners, and balls, was a habitue 
there ; and you were sure to stumble upon the kind 
and excellent Tommy Garth, full of spirits and youth. 
Lord Stair, who was club-footed, and the most un- 
popular Englishman in Paris, might be seen sitting 
in his carriage, accompanied by two dogs, within 
hail of the waiters. I must not forget to mention 
Mr Green, an epicure of the first water, who gave 
excellent dinners ; and also poor Cuthbert, who died 
in Spain, much regretted by his old friends. 

It was the custom for the great ladies who came 
to Tortoni's, to form their parties there ; and I recol- 
lect as if it had occurred yesterday, that upon one 
occasion, the Princess de Beauvau invited those 
who were assembled in the centre room, to meet at 
her hotel at midnight to dance. On our arrival, we 
were agreeably surprised to find Musard, Colinet, 
and other musicians assembled, and ready to strike 
up a quadrille or a waltz. The charming daughters 
of the Princess, the Ladies Harley, with others whom 
I now forget, danced with all the grace of profes- 
sional performers. In those days, the Minuet, Ga- 
votte, and Monaco were the favourite dances, and 
if a gentleman could muster sufficient grace and 
agility for any of those fashionable dances, he was 
sure of receiving invitations from the best houses in 
the Faubourg St Germain. 

About the period I allude to, a young captain in 
one of the French regiments of hussars suddenly 
made his appearance at Tortoni's, the Count "Walew- 
ski, a natural son of the great Napoleon's. He was 
remarkable for his good looks ; the ladies adored 
him ; and it must be acknowledged he was one of the 



An Inveterate Gambler. 287 

finest-looking men I ever saw. Not liking a mili- 
tary life, Walewski retired from the hussars and 
adopted politics ; in which sphere he soon evinced 
considerable talent. His friends the Dues de Mornv, 
and Mouchy, the Counts Antonin and Louis de No- 
ailles, the Count Montguyon, and Lavallette, met here 
nearly every night. Upon one occasion, a strange 
scene took place between Lavallette and Montguyon, 
owing to a pretty girl, Mademoiselle D., with whom 
it was said that they were both in love. Be this as 
it may, " the green-eyed monster " was aroused, and 
from high words, a duel was the consequence ; they 
fought with swords, and Montguyon received a 
wound in the arm, when the seconds interfered and 
put an end to the affair. 

The Revolution of 1830 was a death-blow to Tor- 
toni's. Persons in the best society, who had during 
many years been considered proud and exclusive, 
now began to keep entirely aloof, and studiously 
avoided going there, because of the new set which 
had been formed. This cafe, nevertheless, for some 
time continued to be in fashion, and the rendezvous 
of persons of celebrity. Victor Hugo, Lamartine, 
Sophie Gay, Alexandre Dumas, the bankers Roths- 
child, and the moneyed aristocracy, frequently met 
there. Clubs have, however, sprung up in Paris in 
every direction within a few years, and the conse- 
quence has been that Tortoni's has lost its renommee ; 
but, nevertheless, the ices here are still considered 
the best in Paris. 

An Inveterate Gambler. — Mr Lumsden, whose 
inveterate love of gambling eventually caused his 
ruin, was to be seen every day at Frascati's, the 



288 Colonel Sebright of the Guards. 

celebrated gambling-house kept by Mme. Dunan, 
where some of the most celebrated women of the 
demi-monde usually congregated. He was a mar- 
tyr to the gout, and his hands and knuckles were 
a mass of chalk stones. He stuck to the rouge et 
noir table until everybody had left ; and while 
playing would take from his pocket a small slate, 
upon which he would rub his chalk stones until 
blood flowed. Having on one occasion been placed 
near him at the rouge et noir table, I ventured to 
expostulate with him for rubbing his knuckles 
against his slate. He coolly answered, " I feel re- 
lieved when I see the blood ooze out." 

Mr Lumsden was remarkable for his courtlv 
manners ; but his absence of mind was astonishing, 
for he would frequently ask his neighbour where 
he was. Crowds of men and women would con- 
gregate behind his chair, to look at " the mad Eng- 
lishman," as he was called ; and his eccentricities 
used to amuse even the croupiers. After losing a 
large fortune at this den of iniquity, Mr Lumsden 
encountered every evil of poverty, and died in a 
wretched lodging in the Eue St Marc. 

Colonel Sebright of the Guards. — This gen- 
tleman was well known in London, from the com- 
mencement of the present century down to 1820, 
as one of the most eccentric men of the age. He 
stuck to the old style of corduroy knee-breeches 
and top-boots to the day of his death. He never — 
that is to say, for many years before his death — left 
town ; and his daily occupation was to walk from 
his house in Chapel Street, South Audley Street, 
to Hyde Park, accompanied by his wiry-haired ter- 



Colonel Sebright of the Guards. 289 

rier. Then he would stroll to the Guards' Club, 
finding fault with everything and everybody con- 
nected with the changes taking place in the 
dress, &c, of the army, and that of the English 
gentleman. From the windows of the Club he 
used to gaze at White's, which was opposite, and 
abuse the dandies, especially Brummel and Alvan- 
ley, who were his especial aversions, ejaculating, 
" Damn those fellows ; they are upstarts, and fit 
only for the society of tailors ! " 

I recollect on one occasion his dining, when on 
guard, with Colonel Archibald Macdonald, (who 
was killed afterwards at Bergen- op-Zoom,) when 
Brummel, Alvanley, and Pierrepoint were also of the 
party. These dandies were aware of the dislike he 
entertained for them, but nevertheless made a point 
of asking him to take wine. But to each invitation 
he replied gruffly, " Thank you ; I have already had 
enough of this horrid stuff, and cannot drink more/' 
His speeches were usually of this curt description. 

When Sebright went to Spain with his battalion, 
he left directions to have the newspapers regularly 
forwarded to him, and on their arrival he desired 
his servant to damp them ; then holding them to 
the fire, he would exclaim, " Why, my papers smell 
as if they were only printed last night." This 
operation was performed every day the mails ar- 
rived from England. 

My gallant friend was a thorough John Bull, 
and an enemy to everything that was French, even 
to the dress of that nation. It was with difficulty 
that he bore the innovation of the black neckcloth, 
that had then just come into fashion. Upon one 
occasion, on entering the Guards' Club, he per- 

T 



290 The Princess Charlotte of Wales. 

ceivecl Willoughby Cotton with a black cravat on, 
when he said, in a loud voice, "It is evident that 
the officers of the Guards are in debt to their 
washerwomen, or they would not wear dirty black 
cravats." Willoughby Cotton, feeling indignant, 
replied that he did not understand such imperti- 
nence. Sebright then jumped up from his chair, 
exclaiming, " I will not brook this language ! " and 
left the room. Colonel Keate followed the irritable 
gentleman, and told him that he had brought it all 
on himself by his sarcastic observations ; and, in 
short, so convinced him of his error as to cause 
him to shake hands with Cotton. 

The Princess Charlotte of Wales. — A few 
months after the death of the lamented Princess 
Charlotte of Wales, Prince Leopold, now the King of 
the Belgians, went to Paris, where he lived at the 
Hotel des Princes, Eue Eichelieu ; but for a length 
of time he remained incognito. I was on one oc- 
casion dining in the company of his Eoyal High- 
ness, who interrogated me about a shooting party 
at St Germain, which had taken place a day or two 
before. When I mentioned the number of hares 
we had shot, the Prince observed, " I never intend 
again to shoot a hare, because at Claremont, one 
day, when walking with my beloved wife, we 
heard the cries of one that had been wounded by 
one of the shooting party ; and so affected was she 
by its pitiful screams, that she begged I would 
not be the cause of pain to one of these animals in 
future." 

The Duchess of Leeds used to tell an anecdote of 
her Eoyal Highness and her love of fishing. When 



The Duke of Clarence. 291 

engaged in this sport, on catching a fish the Princess 
used to tie a piece of ribbon round its tail and throw 
it back again into the water, noticing with delight 
that those which had not been caught attacked those 
decorated by her. Once, having been very success- 
ful in catching a great many, and having exhausted 
all her ribbon, she unpicked her bonnet and made 
use of its trimmings to decorate the fish she caught. 

The Duke of Clarence. — At the commence- 
ment of 1817, the Duke of Clarence, bent upon 
improving his pecuniary means, decided on marry- 
ing a rich heiress. The report was circulated all 
over England, (where it produced the most intense 
sensation,) that the Duke had, with the consent of 
his brother, the Prince Regent, actually proposed to 
Miss Wykeham, whose estates in Oxfordshire were 
large and of immense value. When the event was 
communicated to Queen Charlotte, his royal mother 
was outrageous ; she flew into a violent rage, and 
with vehement asseverations, (either in English 
or German,) declared that her consent should 
never be given to the match. The law officers of 
the Crown were consulted, cabinet councils met 
daily, and after much discussion, ministers deter- 
mined oil opposing the Duke's project ; notwith- 
standing the opinion of one of the best lawyers that 
" a prince of the blood-royal, being of age, and 
notifying his intended marriage previous to its 
taking place, was at liberty to marry without the 
consent of the king, unless the two Houses of Par- 
liament should address the Crown against it." 

The excitement among all classes was at its height, 
when the Morning Post informed the world one 



292 The Duke of Clarence. 

morning that the Duke's intended marriage was 
entirely "off;" H. E. H. having been prevailed upon 
by the Queen to forego his intentions. In this 
course Queen Charlotte was evidently supported by 
the rest of the royal family ; and it was whispered 
that, as an inducement to the Prince to behave like 
a good boy, the Queen, Prince Eegent, and his 
royal sisters had subscribed a sufficient sum among 
themselves to pay off all H. E. IPs. debts, and to 
provide him with an increase of income for the 
future. Much amusement was caused at the clubs 
by a caricature of an old sailor, called " the love- 
sick youth." 

The Duke of Clarence, together with his brothers, 
were in the habit of frequently dining at the table 
prepared for the officers who mount guard at St 
James's, and it was the custom for their Eoyal High- 
nesses to send in their names when they intended 
to honour the Colonel with their presence. Al- 
though I was at the time very young, I recollect 
being present on several occasions when the Duke 
of Clarence honoured our mess with his presence, 
and the amusing anecdotes he used to relate. He 
astonished Colonel Archibald Macdonakl one day at 
table by putting the following question to him 
" Colonel, are you ever under the necessity of giving 
' chocolate' to your young officers V The Colonel 
(who was afterwards killed at Bergen-op-Zoom) 
replied, that he did not understand what H. E. H. 
meant by " giving chocolate." The Duke replied, 
" Oh, I can see, Colonel, that you have not break- 
fasted with Sir David Dundas, for it was his invari- 
able custom to ask such officers as had fallen 
under his displeasure for breaches of military dis- 



The Duke of Clarence. 2f)3 

cipline to breakfast with him, in order that during 
the repast, where some excellent chocolate invariably 
formed one of the comestibles, the culprit should be 
severely lectured, and sometimes recommended to 
leave the service." Ensign "Bacchus" Lascelles, 
who was present, a plain-spoken fellow, sang out 
from the end of the table, " Your Koyal Highness, 
if the Colonel does not understand the meaning of 
' chocolate ' I do ; for only this morning I received 
' goose ' from the adjutant for not having suffi- 
cient powder on my hair : it is quite immaterial 
whether a rowing be denominated 'chocolate' or 
'goose/ for it is one and the same thing." The 
royal Duke laughed heartily at the sang froid of 
the young ensign, and ever after evinced great par- 
tiality for him. 

Talking of military despotism, my old friend 
Upton, though an excellent man, was extremely 
rigorous in enforcing attention to military regula- 
tions. Having; discovered that I shirked morning 
parade, he sent for me, intending to adminis- 
ter a due amount of " goose." On my arriving 
at the Queen's Lodge, where he lived as one of the 
equerries, and entering his apartments, I was horri- 
fied at finding this excellent fellow lying on the 
floor bleeding. It appeared that he had, in a tem- 
porary absence of mind, made use of a pair of 
razors to pull on his boots with ! Fortunately, Dr 
Heberden, who was on duty in attendance upon the 
King, was immediately sent for, and succeeded in 
stopping the haemorrhage ; but he at the same time 
expressed his fears that lock-jaw would ensue. 
Luckily, Upton's strong constitution carried him 
through the disaster, and in a few weeks he was 



294 Englishmen in Paris in 1817 



able to resume command of the battalion : and ready 
to administer a plentiful allowance of "goose" to 
the first unlucky wight who fell under his displea- 
sure. 

The Oeigin of " Shocking Bad Hat." — At 
Newmarket, when the Duke of York, surrounded by 
the Dukes of Queensberry, Grafton, Eutland, Port- 
land, and other noblemen and gentlemen, was 
busily engaged talking about and betting on a race 
which was about to be run, a little insignificant- 
looking man pushed his head into the ring, offering 
to bet a considerable sum against a horse in the 
race in question. The Duke of York's curiosity 
was aroused, and he asked his neighbour who it 
was that offered to lay the odds. Some one cried 
out, "Oh, it is Walpole." "Then the little man 
wears a shocking had hat — a shocking bad hat," 
rejoined His Eoyal Highness. The late Lord Wal- 
pole and his father were both addicted to wear- 
ing hats with large brims and low crowns, which 
made the wearers appear anything but " comme il 
fauty 

Englishmen in Paris in 1817 — In the year 

1817, Lord A , his brother, and another friend, 

were staying in Paris. They had dined one day at 
Very's, then the famous restaurant in the Palais 
Eoyal, and the conversation had turned upon the 
insults offered by the Parisians, particularly the 
military, to the English visitors. His Lordship 
was silent during this conversation, but took note 
of what had been said, while imbibing some potent 
Burgundy ; and his indignation was none the weaker 



Englishmen in Paris in 1817 295 



for having thus " bottled it up." On leaving the 
restaurant the first thing he did was to kick over a 
basket of toothpicks, which were presented to him 
for purchase ; the next was to shove off the pave- 
ment a Frenchman, who proved to be an officer. Of 
course, there was a violent altercation ; cards were 
exchanged, and each party went his way to make 
arrangements for the " pistols and coffee for 
four." 

Our countrymen, when near home, picked up 
their friend Manners, who had been shut out of 
his lodgings, and promised to accommodate him 
with a sofa at their rooms. On their arrival, he 
partially uncased and wrapped himself up in a large 
Witney blanket and greatcoat, and then " turned 
in." At an early hour the next morning, two gen- 
tlemen called on our countrymen, and were ushered 
into the saloon. The first who presented himself to 
receive them was his Lordship, who had nothing 
on but a large pair of trousers, and a cotton night- 
cap full of holes : he being so particular about 
having it aired that it was constantly singed in 
the process. Not speaking French, he requested 
his servant to act as interpreter, and asked the 
strangers the object of their visit ; the incidents 
of the preceding night having passed off from his 
memory with the fumes of the Chambertin. The 
discussion that ensued woke up Manners, who, 
wrapped in his blanket, rose from his couch, looking 
more like a white bear than anything else. It also 
drew from his dormitory Captain Meade, who made 
his appearance from a side door, clothed only in his 
night-shirt and a pair of expansive Russia diick 
trousers, whistling, as was his wont, and spitting 



296 Englishmen in Paris in 1817. 

occasionally through a hole that had been bored in 
one of his front teeth, in imitation of the stage- 
coachmen of the day- Lord A 's brother next 

appeared on the scene, in a costume little more 
complete than those of the others. 

The visitors, although astonished at the appear- 
ance of the group, proceeded to business. Manners 
conducted it on the part of his friends, who could 
not speak French ; and, with a view of discharging 
his office more comfortably, drew aside the folds of 
his Witney blanket and placed his back against the 
mantelpiece, to enjoy the warmth of the glow- 
ing wood-ashes in the grate below. The French- 
men were refused an apology by our friends, 
coupled with the observation, that with English- 
men the case would be different ; but that it was 
impossible on the present occasion to arrange mat- 
ters in that way. They therefore requested the 
other party to name their weapons. Manners coolly 
informed them that they had decided on using 
fusils, at twelve paces ! This seemed rather to 
astonish the Frenchmen : they exchanged glances, 
and then cast their eyes round the room, and on 
the strange figures before them. Meade was 

whistling through his teeth ; Lord A , whose 

coppers were rather hot, had thrust his head out 
into the street through a pane of glass that had 
been smashed the night before ; while the others 
were stalking about the room in their rather airy 
costumes. The gravity of the Frenchmen was over- 
come by the ludicrous aspect and sang froid of 
their opponents, and they burst out laughing. 

Lord A , who was as full of fun as he was of 

pluck, stretching out his hand to the injured party, 



A Mishap at Almack's. 297 

said, " Come, I see you are good fellows, so shake 
hands. I had taken rather too much wine last 
night." I need not say that the proffered hand 
was accepted, and the French officers retired. After 
their departure, Manners asked the servant what 
fusil really meant, as, when naming the weapon to 
be used, he supposed it to be a kind of pistol. 

The Bold Wife of a Kash Husband. — About 
thirty years back a bet was made in Paris by the 
Comte de Chatauvillard, that he would ride a 
horse which no groom would venture to mount be- 
cause of its vicious propensities. The animal in 
question had been allowed to remain idle for several 
months, without having ever been touched by any 
one during all that time ; for it was fed through a 
hole in a neighbouring stall, and watered and lit- 
tered in a similar manner. As the time approached 
for the conditions of the bet to be carried out, great 
excitement prevailed in the clubs with regard to it, 
especially among those skilled in horsemanship, and 
a wager of 20,000 francs was jointly laid by several 
gentlemen against the Count. Information was, 
however, conveyed to the Count's wife, an Irish 
lady by birth, and foreseeing the danger her husband 
would inevitably incur, she armed herself with a 
brace of pistols, entered the stable, and placing one 
of them to the horse's head, fired. The animal 
reared and fell dead, the lady exclaiming, " Thank 
God, I have done my duty ! " 

A Mishap at Almack's. — Among the many 
droll incidents which occurred at those elegant balls 
at Almack's, I recollect one which created much 



298 A Mishap at Almacks. 

amusement among those who witnessed it, at the 
expense of the person whose name I am about to 
mention. The late Lord Graves, who was extremely 
fat, but who danced well for his size, engaged the 
beautiful Lady Harriet Butler one evening as his 
partner in a quadrille. Her Ladyship had just 
arrived from Paris, where she had been brought up 
under the auspices of Josephine, and having received 
lessons in dancing from the celebrated Vestris 
she electrified the English with the graceful ease 
with which she made her entrechats ; so much so, 
that a circle was generally formed to admire her 
dancing. Lord Graves, desirous of doing his 
utmost to please his fair partner, ventured on imi- 
tating the lady's entrechat; but in making the 
attempt, he unluckily fell heavily on the floor. 
Nothing daunted, however, he got on his legs again 
and finished the quadrille as well as he could ; when 
his friends hastened to sympathise with him. But 
Sir John Burke, in a sarcastic manner said, " What 
could have induced you, at your age and in your 
state, to make so great a fool of yourself as to 
attempt an entrechat f" Lord Graves not relish- 
ing the manner in which the Baronet had addressed 
him, replied, " If you think I am too old to dance, 
I consider myself not too old to blow your brains 
out for your impertinence ; so the sooner you find 
a second the better." Lord Sefton, who overheard 
the conversation, said, " Tut tut tut, man, the sooner 
you shake hands the better ; for the fact is, the 
world will condemn you both if you fight on such 
slight grounds : and you, Graves, wont have a leg 
to stand on." This sensible remark led to the 
parties shaking hands, and thus the matter dropped. 



Sir Astley Cooper. 299 

Sir Astley Cooper. — I recollect meeting this 
celebrated surgeon in South Wales about thirty 
years back, when on a visit to some of his friends. 
I had only returned the day before from Paris, and 
Sir Astley was very inquisitive about everything I 
had seen there. He eulogised the French surgeons, 
but objected to the means employed after amputa- 
tion ; for instead of giving beafsteaks, port wine, 
and other stimulants, the French surgeons recom- 
mended lemonade and tisanes, whereby eight 
patients out of ten died, whereas by the English 
system only two succumbed out of ten. Neverthe- 
less, he spoke of Dupuytren in the most enthusias- 
tic terms, and acknowledged him to be the most 
skilful surgeon in Europe. I asked him his opinion 
of French cookery ; he replied, " It suits the French ; 
but it would never do in England ; for our men 
require animal food twice a-day, and porter ; but 
the French, from their birth, live upon fruit and 
vegetables, and their meat is boiled down to rags ; 
this is, however, congenial to their stomachs, and 
proves that digestion begins in the kitchen." 

Our great surgeon perceiving that I was fond of 
smoking, cautioned me against that habit, telling 
me it would sooner or later be the cause of my death. 
If Sir Astley were now alive he would find every- 
body with a cigar in his mouth : men smoke now-a- 
days whilst they are occupied in working or hunting, 
riding in carriages, or otherwise employed. During 
the experience of a long life, however, I never knew 
but one person to whom it was said that smoking 
was the cause of his death : he was the son of an 
Irish earl, and an attache at our Embassy in Paris. 
But, alas, I have known thousands who have been 



300 The Bishop of Exeter and his Son. 

carried off owing to their love of the bottle ; ay, 
some of the noblest and famous men in our land, 
splendid in youth, strength, and agility. I regret 
to add, I have met with refined ladies, too, who 
never went to bed without a little brandy "to drive 
away the colic." 

Lady Holland and " the Bridge." — When 
Holland House was the rendezvous of all that was 
great and illustrious, a gentleman, well-known on 
account of his literary attainments, requested per- 
mission from its noble hostess to introduce a friend 
of his, who had just written a novel, which had 
been well received by the public. Lady Holland, 
ever happy to do a good-natured act, said, " You 
may bring him here to-night." The gentleman 
and his friend accordingly made their appearance 
that very evening, and were graciously received. 
On the following day, the introducer called on her 
ladyship to thank her for the honour she had con- 
ferred upon his friend, when she observed, " I can't 
say much for his good looks, for it was impossible 
for me to get over the bridge." " What bridge, my 
Lady 1 " " Why, the broken bridge of his nose, 
which has made him the ugliest man I ever saw." 
" Oh, madam, allow me to state that he was born 
with that unfortunate defect." " More 's the pity, 
sir ; and I conjure you never bring any more of 
your friends to Holland House who are not blessed 
with bridges to their noses." 



tr 



The Bishop of Exeter and his Son. — The 
Bishop of Exeter, in the course of conversation at a 
dinner party, mentioned that many years since, 



Lord Deerhurst {afterwards Lord Coventry.) 301 

while trout-fishing, he lost his watch and chain, 
which he supposed had been pulled from his pocket 
by the bough of a tree. Sometime afterwards, when 
staying in the same neighbourhood, he took a stroll 
by the side of the river, and came to the secluded 
spot where he supposed he had lost his valuables, 
and there, to his surprise and delight, he found 
them under a bush. The anecdote vouched for by 
the word of a bishop astonished the company ; but 
this was changed to amusement by his son's in- 
quiring, whether the watch, when found, was going. 
" No," replied the bishop ; " the wonder was that 
it was not gone." 

Lord Deerhurst, (afterwards Lord Coven- 
try.) — Persons are still living wdio remember this 
nobleman hastening down Piccadilly after some 
pretty girl or other. Lord Deerhurst was distin- 
guished for his good looks and manly bearing ; 
but he always seemed in a hurry : his habits 
and appearance were in other respects singular, 
though they did not lessen the respect his rank and 
abilities deservedly commanded. His wit was pro- 
verbial : in short, such were his talents in society, 
that he was considered a match for Alvanley. 
Another good trait in his character was the atten- 
tion he paid to Lord Coventry, who was blind. 

His marriage proved a very unhappy one. After 
living some time with his wife on very bad terms, 
a separation ensued, which caused him great misery. 
I recollect, after this occurrence, seeing a letter 
dated from his father's place in Worcestershire, in 
which he said, " Here I am at leisure, free to in- 
dulge in my grief, and to correct those errors that 



302 Mr Neeld. 



have brought upon me so much mental suffering." 
He never completely recovered, and contrived to 
kill time by travelling from London to his seat in 
Worcestershire and back, once a week. Before his 
death poor Deerhurst became excessively irritable, 
and subsequently insane. He recovered his reason 
slightly, but died shortly after, attended only by a 
few trusty servants. 

I recollect dining at Madame Vestris's pretty house 
in St John's Wood, in company with him, Lords Al- 
vanley and Foley, and Tom Duncombe. Deerhurst 
was the life and soul of the party ; and although 
there was, of course, a little sparring between him and 
Alvanley, he was " cock of the walk." He was then 
in good health and spirits, and conversed easily, and 
without appearing conscious that he was delighting 
us all with his witty sayings. Of all the dinners 
I have been present at, I recollect this as being the 
most pleasant ; it might be called a dinner of 
dandies, as most of those present belonged to 
White's, and led the beau monde at that period. 
Of Madame Vestris I can only say, that I never 
knew any lady more perfectly natural and agree- 
able in manner and conversation, and she did the 
honours of her house in admirable style. 

Mr Neeld. — Lord Alvanley having been invited 
to dine in Grosvenor Square, at the house of Mr 
Neeld, the heir to Mr Kundell the wealthy gold- 
smith, was, previous to sitting down to table, shown 
some fine pictures which hung on the walls of the 
drawing-room, together with many articles of virtu 
that crowded the apartment ; the host praising 
and describing each, and stating the cost, in by 



Mrs Beaumont. 303 



no means a well-bred manner. One would have 
thought that the inflicti&n would have been dis- 
continued on entering the dining-room ; but, on 
the guests being seated, Mr Neeld began excusing 
himself for not having a haunch of venison for 
dinner, and assured his guests that a very fine 
haunch of Welsh mutton had been prepared for 
them. He then returned to his favourite topic, 
and began praising the room in which they were 
dining, and the furniture ; he had got to the gild- 
ing, which he assured his guests had been done by 
French artists at an enormous expense, when the 
mutton made its appearance. Lord Alvanley, who 
had been intensely bored, exclaimed, " I care not 
what your gilding cost ; but, what is more to the 
purpose, I am most anxious to make a trial of your 
carving, Mr Neeld, for I am excessively hungry > 
and should like to attack the representative of the 
haunch of venison." 

The nouveau riche, though rather astonished by 
this remark, was obliged to let it pass without 
notice ; his anxiety to form a circle of aristocratic 
acquaintances preventing his taking offence at any- 
thing said by such a person as his Lordship. 

Mrs Beaumont. — There are probably many per- 
sons who remember this lady. She was reported 
to have been of low origin, but inheriting vast 
estates in the north, and having married a colonel 
of militia, who became member for the county 
where her large estates lay, she became one of the 
leaders of the fashionable world in 1812. From 
that time to 1820, it was impossible, during the 
London season, to walk from St James's Street to 



304 Mrs Beaumont. 



Hyde Park at a certain hour in the afternoon, 
without seeing her and her daughters in her large 
yellow landau. Her style of living was most luxu- 
rious and full of ostentation. Her preference of a 
nobleman before a gentleman of no title was shown 
in a manner that was perfectly ridiculous, and 
evinced a great want of good sense and tact. Her 
fetes were thronged with, the grand monde, and 
her system of excluding all but persons of rank 
amused the fashionable world even men of talent 
and good family rarely got the entree of her saloons. 

This recalls to my mind a rather ludicrous inci- 
dent. Through the kindness of the Duchess of 
Marlborough, I was present at one of Mrs Beau- 
mont's balls, and this led to my being invited to 
the rest of them during the season. In fine, I be- 
came a constant visitor at her house in Portman 
Square, till one day I ventured to • ask for an invi- 
tation for a friend of mine, a distinguished officer 
in the Guards, good-looking, and in every respect 
fit company for the best saloons. I was of course 
asked what was his rank ; and on my replying 
that he was a captain in the regiment in which I 
had the honour to serve, Mrs Beaumont exclaimed, 
" I want no more captains at my balls : you should 
consider yourself lucky in getting an invitation." I 
bowed and took my leave , and, reflecting on the 
injustice I had done Mrs Beaumont in presuming 
to appear at her assemblies, I never again perpe- 
trated the offence. 

Mrs Beaumont had three sons, two of whom died 
insane ; the other sorely wounded her pride by 
marrying Miss Atkinson, the daughter of a hatter. 
When his mother died he succeeded to her large 



Windsor Castle in 1819. 305 



property, and this somewhat turned his head. Like 
all parvenus, he was ambitious of being raised to 
the peerage ; but he threw away the only chance 
he had, by quarrelling with the only great man 
likely to forward his views — the celebrated Lord 
Grey. Mr Wentworth Beaumont fought a duel 
with the late Lord Durham, and had to pay his 
second an annuity for life, — why or wherefore no 
one could tell. The issue of his marriage was a 
son, of whom he was very proud. Soon after the 
birth of his heir, poor Beaumont became in a mea- 
sure insane ; but there was method (or satire) in 
his madness, for in his last moments he ejaculated, 
" I cannot say that I have lived for nothing, for my 
son, besides inheriting my vast fortune, will become 
the ' Due de Feltre.' " 

In spite of all the anxiety and trouble Mrs Beau- 
mont had taken in bringing up her daughters, in the 
hope of their marrying men of exalted rank, she had 
the mortification of knowing that they had married 
men of low origin in Italy 

Windsor Castle in 1819.- — While on duty with 
my regiment at Windsor in the summer of 1819, I 
received an invitation to dine at the Equerries' table 
at the Castle, or the " Queen's House," as it was then 
called, on which occasion I met Lord Liverpool, the 
Prime Minister, the Archbishop of York, Dr Baillie, 
SirH. Halford, Dr Heberden, and the "mad Doctor" 
Willis. These personages had come from London, 
in virtue of their office, to inquire after the health 
of the King. I must confess to a feeling of aversion, 
and even horror, at being placed next the "mad 
Doctor" at table. He was sallow, ill-looking, and 

u 



306 Windsor Castle in 1819. 



indeed had a most forbidding countenance. He 
was dressed in black, with silk breeches, white neck- 
cloth, and frill. However, my feelings were soon 
calmed ; for, although he never spoke, he seemed to 
enjoy his dinner, eating and drinking as much as 
any two persons at table. Dr Baillie was evidently 
a great favourite with the Prime Minister and 
Archbishop. The equerries present were Generals 
Garth and Gwynne, both fine gentlemen of the old 
school, in powder and pigtails. 

I once saw George III. walking with his favourite 
son, the Duke of York, with whom he talked inces- 
santly, repeating his, " Yes, yes, yes, Frederick," in his 
usual loud voice. His beard was of unusual length, 
and he stooped very much. He wore the Windsor 
uniform, with a large cocked hat, something like that 
with which Frederick the Great is usually represented. 
The doctors walked behind the King, which seemed 
greatly to annoy him, as he was constantly looking 
round. It was said, and I believe with truth, that 
the poor King could not hear Dr Willis's name 
spoken without shuddering. H. E. H. the Duke of 
Cumberland frequently visited his Eoyal parents, 
with his beautiful wife, whose figure at that time 
was such as few women could boast of. 

I cannot pass by an event which caused some 
scandal at the time. The Duke of Cumberland, on 
his visits to Windsor, was generally accompanied 
by his aide-de-camp, Colonel Disney. One day, 
on the occasion of the Duke's recovery from the 
wounds received in resisting the murderous attack 
of his valet, H. K. H. arrived at the castle to pay 
his respects to his Eoyal parents ; when, finding 
that the Queen was walking on the terrace, he has- 



A Shoulder of Mutton a la Soubise. 3 0? 

tened to join her Majesty, desiring Colonel Disney 
to remain in waiting. The Colonel, who was a hare- 
brained, half-cracked sort of a fellow, finding wait- 
ing rather irksome, commenced making a tour 
through the apartments, and in his peregrinations 
entered her Majesty's bed-chamber, which was 
rightly held to be sacred ground. Curiosity led 
him to inspect the various toilet articles of the 
queen, and still further to examine a golden vase, 
which he put to a use that cannot be named to ears 
polite. This breach of good manners was detected 
by the royal housekeeper, the Hon. Miss Town- 
shend, who, with tears in her eyes, reported to the 
Duke of Cumberland the gross impropriety His 
Eoyal Highness, a proud overbearing man, sought out 
Disney, and attempted to inflict summary chastise- 
ment for the insult he had perpetrated ; however, 
the Colonel evaded the punishment so richly de- 
served, but he was almost immediately placed on 
the shelf, and died at his lodgings, in Bury Street, 
St James's, heart-broken, on the second anniversary 
of his thoughtless freak. 

A Shoulder of Mutton a la Soubise. — When 
George IV passed through Carmarthenshire on his 
return from Ireland, he remained a day and night 
at Dynevor Castle, the seat of the nobleman of that 
name. His Lordship, desirous of entertaining his 
Majesty in a befitting manner, asked Sir Benjamin 
Bloomfield what particular dish the King preferred. 
Sir Benjamin replied, that his Majesty was very 
fond of a shoulder of mutton boiled with "sauce 
soubise." Lord D. sent word to that effect to the 
cook, who full of vanity and self-conceit, like the 



308 Attempt to Assassinate the Prince- Regent. 

majority of Welshmen, did not deign to make the 
inquiry as to what a " sauce soubise " meant. The 
consequence was that Taffy got into a scrape, for 
when the shoulder appeared on the dinner-table, the 
King observing it, said that he had never seen a 
shoulder of mutton covered with currant-jelly, in- 
stead of onion sauce. The Welch cook was called, 
and Lord Dynevor asked him what could have in- 
duced him to make such an egregious mistake. He 
replied, that he thought the gentleman (meaning the 
king) would prefer sweet sauce to that ordered by 
his Lordship. 

Attempt to Assassinate the Peince Regent. — 
An attempt was made to assassinate the Prince 
Regent Avhen on his way home from the Houses of 
Parliament in 1819 ; but it happily failed. In the 
park, opposite Marlborough House, a bullet was 
fired from an air-gun by a man concealed in one 
of the trees, who escaped. This occurred when I 
was on duty at the Horse Guard's, marching across 
the park with what was commonly called the 
" Tilt Guard," and I remember it was anything but 
pleasant to get through the mob of blackguards 
who were ripe for mischief. The Life Guards, who 
escorted the Prince Regent, evinced great want of 
energy on the occasion. The officer commanding 
the troop, when he saw the danger, should have com- 
manded his men to charge and clear the way. Such 
was my opinion then ; and I am persuaded, from all 
that I have witnessed abroad since, that the wisest 
plan upon such occasions, is to take the initiative and 
act promptly- The fact of this attempt having been 
made, was doubted at the time by the public at 



Coronation of George IV 30.9 

large, but I can speak from my personal knowledge 
that a shot was fired, and i* was aimed at the royal 
carriage. 

Coronation of George IV. — At this gorgeous 
solemnity it fell to my lot to be on guard on the 
platform along which the royal procession had to 
pass, in order to reach the Abbey. The crowd that 
had congregated in this locality exceeded anything 
I had ever before seen : struggling, fighting, shriek- 
ing, and laughing, were the order of the day among 
this motley assemblage. Little Townsend, the chief 
police officer of Bow Street, with his flaxen wig and 
broad-brimmed hat, was to be seen hurrying from one 
end of the platform to the other, assuming immense 
importance. On the approach of the cortege you 
heard this officious person, "dressed with a little 
brief authority," hallooing with all his. might, 
" Gentlemen and ladies, take care of your pockets, 
for you are surrounded by thieves ; " and hearty 
laughter responded to Mr Townsend's salutary 
advice. 

When the procession was seen to approach, and 
the royal canopy came in sight, those below the plat- 
form were straining with all their might to get a 
peep at the Sovereign, and the confusion at this 
moment can be better imagined than described. 
The pick-pockets, of course, had availed themselves 
of the confusion, and in the twinkling of an eye 
there were more watches and purses snatched from 
the pockets of his majesty's loyal subjects than per- 
haps on any previous occasion. 

Amidst the crowd a respectable gentleman from 
the Principality hallooed out in his provincial tongue, 



310 George IV. and Bishop Porteous. 

" Mr Townsend, Mr Townsend, I have been robbed of 
my gold watch and purse, containing all my money. 
What am I to do % what am I to do to get home \ I 
have come two hundred miles to see this sight, and 
instead of receiving satisfaction or hospitality, I am 
robbed by those cut-throats called ' the swell mob/ " 
This eloquent speech had a very different effect 
upon the mob than the poor Welshman had reason 
to expect ; for all of a sudden the refrain of the 
song of " Sweet Home " was shouted by a thousand 
voices ; and the mob bawled out, " Go back to your 
goats, my good fellow." The indignities that were 
heaped upon this unfortunate gentleman during 
the royal procession, and his appearance after the 
King had passed, created pity in the minds of all 
honest persons who witnessed this disgusting scene : 
his hat was beaten over his eyes, and his coat, 
neckcloth, &c, were torn off" his body. For there 
were no police in those days ; and with the excep- 
tion of a few constables and some soldiers, there 
was no force to prevent the metropolis from being 
burnt to the ground, if it had pleased the mob to 
have set it on fire. 

George IV and Bishop Porteous. — Lord 
Brougham, the late lamented Thackeray, and others, 
have been very severe in their censures on the 
character of George IV My readers will perhaps 
be interested in hearing the following : — Some few 
years before the death of the King, Dr Porteous, then 
Bishop of London, having heard that his Majesty 
had appointed a review of the Household Troops to 
take place on a Sunday, ordered his carriage, though 
he was in a precarious state of health, and waited 



Latter Days of George IV. 311 

upon his Majesty at Carlton House. The Bishop 
was most graciously received, and proceeded to say, 
"I am come to warn your Majesty of the awful 
consequences of your breaking the Sabbath, by 
holding a review on that day which the Almighty 
has hallowed and set apart for Himself." The King 
upon this burst into tears, and fell on his knees 
before the Bishop, who bestowed upon his Majesty 
his blessing. The King then assured Dr Porteous 
that no review should take place on the Sabbath 
during his life. Bishop Porteous then left the royal 
presence never more to return ; for on arriving at 
his residence he took to his bed, and died shortly 
afterwards. The King was so deeply afflicted at 
the news that, on hearing it, he retired into his 
own apartments and was heard to sob as one in 
deep affliction. 

Latter Days of George IV — For some months 
prior to his death, the King abstained from eating 
animal food, and lived on vegetables and pastry, for 
which he had a great liking. His conduct, from 
being that of a sensual, greedy old man, became that 
of a spoilt child ; and the way he spent his time 
was frivolous in the extreme. He was very fond of 
punch, made from a recipe by his matt re d'hdtel, 
Mr Maddison, and which he drank after dinner ; this 
was the only time he was agreeable, and on these 
occasions he would sing songs, relate anecdotes of 
his youth, and play on the violoncello : afterwards 
going to bed in a " comfortable " state. But a 
nervous disorder which affected him prevented his 
sleeping well, and he invariably rose in the morn- 
ing in the most unamiable of tempers. Poor man, 



312 Colonel the Honourable ti IStankope. 

he was greatly to be pitied; for he was surrounded 
by a set of harpies, only intent on what they could 
get out of him, among the most prominent of whom 

was Lady C , the " English Pompadour." Sir 

Benjamin Bloomfield was not a favourite with this 
lady, and, at the first opportunity she found, she 
caused the King to give him his dismissal ; replacing 
him by a tool of her own, Sir William Knighton. 

Death axd Funeral of the Duke of York. — 
I perfectly recollect the sorrow felt in London at 
the death of the Duke of York, and the splendid 
funereal honours paid to him. The royal Duke died 
after three or four weeks suffering from dropsy, in 
his sixty-fourth year. His administration at the 
Horse Guards will long be held in remembrance, as 
beneficial in the highest degree to the British 
soldier ; and such was his popularity, that ministers, 
statesmen, and general officers followed his remains 
to the grave. I recollect my late lamented friend, 
John Scott, telling me that his father, Lord Eldon, 
spoilt a new hat by placing it on the ground and 
putting his feet into it to keep them warm , for it 
was intensely cold weather at the time, and the 
funeral took place at night. It is certain that a 
great many persons who took part in the procession 
caught severe colds from their not having suffi- 
ciently wrapped themselves up ; and among them 
was Mr Canning, who never entirely recovered : he 
died the same year, in the room at Chiswick where 
Charles James Fox breathed his last. 

Colonel the Honourable H. Stanhope. — ISText 
to the death of the Duke of York, there was no 



Sir Robert Peel's Hat. 313 

event which pained the Grenadier Guards so much 
as the untimely death of the Honourable Colonel 
Stanhope. He had seen much service ; served as 
aide-de-camp to Sir John Moore and to Lord Lyne- 
doch, and distinguished himself greatly at Waterloo. 
He was the only one of the staff accompanying the 
Duke of Wellington when the Duke took refuge in 
our square from the enemy's cavalry, as related in 
my first volume. 

The sensation the death of Colonel Stanhope 
created in the public mind was partly due to the 
melancholy circumstance of his suicide. He had never 
recovered from the effects of a gun-shot wound he had 
received at the siege of St Sebastian, and under the 
combined influences of pain and nervous depression, 
he hanged himself in Caen Wood, the property of 
his father-in-law, the Earl of Mansfield. Besides his 
merits as a soldier, Colonel Stanhope was a most 
accomplished scholar and gentleman. In his youth 
he lived with his uncle, Mr Pitt, the great minister, 
and he entered the army at the age of sixteen. 

Sir Kobert Peel's Hat. — A Welsh Baronet and 
M.P. entered the shop of Lock & Lincoln, in St 
James's Street to purchase a hat. The foreman 
could not find one sufficiently large for the Baronet's 
head, and stated that he only knew one person 
whose head was so large. " Who is that person 1 " 
asked the indignant Welshman. The foreman re- 
plied, " It is no other than the great minister, Sir 
Eobert Peel." "Oh ! oh ! " exclaimed Taffy, " you 
make hats for that Eadical, do you % Well, then, it 
shall never be said that you have sold me a hat. I 
have a horror of such men as your great ministers." 



314 Lady Normanby's Ball. 

And the Baronet left the shop in dudgeon, much to 
the wonder and astonishment of the hatter. 

An Irish Welcome. — During Sir Eobert Peel's 
administration, Lord St Germains, who had been 
absent from his post on a visit to London, on re- 
turning to Dublin as Viceroy, was greeted at the 
railway station by some one in the crowd shouting, 
" Tis glad we are to see your Honour back again 
amongst us ! " This compliment having been grace- 
fully acknowledged by a bow from his Lordship, the 
same voice was heard making the delicate inquiry, 
" But has your Honour taken a return ticket V — a 
witty allusion to the instability of the ministry at 
the time, and a significant qualification of the ori- 
ginal greeting. 

The Prince de Poix. — During the reign of 
Charles X., the soldiers on duty at the garden 
gates of the Tuileries received strict orders to 
allow no one to enter. One clay, however, a person 
of distinguished mien endeavoured to pass by one 
of the sentinels, who told him to go back, at the 
same time stating the orders that had been issued. 
" But," replied the intruder, " do you know who I 
am 1 I am the Prince de Poix, aide-de-camp to 
the King." " Eh, sacre ! " was the answer of the 
soldier, " quand vous seriez le roi des haricots, vous 
ne passeriez pas." 

Lady Normanby's Ball at the British Em- 
bassy, Paris. — Lady Normanby once gave a bril- 
liant fete in honour of the Duke and Duchess 
d'Aumale, In the entrance hall of the Embassy 



Louis Philippe's Sons at a Masked Ball 31 5 

were ranged twelve footmen in splendid liveries ; 
the landing was a bosquet of rose trees, flowers 
filled the drawing-rooms, and enormous jardinieres 
were placed in every direction ; the garden walks 
were covered with carpets, and furnished with sofas, 
and a gorgeous marquee for dancing was erected in 
the garden. The company was composed of the 
elite of society, and the most beautiful women Eng- 
land could boast of were present ; much to the 
chagrin of the Parisians, whose admiration of the 
Englishwomen was intense, but mixed with envy. 
The supper was exquisite ; and as there were not 
seats enough for all the company at once, it was 
arranged that none but ladies should sit, and con- 
sequently the men stood behind their partners 
during the repast. Notwithstanding this arrange- 
ment, our Ambassadress observed a noble marquis 
seated in conversation with a person with whom 
she was unacquainted. She asked somebody to 
inquire the stranger's name, &c, and the noble 
Lord replied, " I don't know him ; but no doubt 
he is acquainted with Lady Normanby, or he 
would not be here/' Her Ladyship having re- 
ceived this answer, stated that she had never seen 
him before, and requested the master of the cere- 
monies to demand his name. He accordingly ac- 
costed the intruder, who gave his card, on which was 
incribed "The Baron Deldique." It was, however, 
subsequently discovered that this man was an impos- 
tor, and in the habit of attending balls without being 
known to either the host or any of the company- 
Louis Philippe's Sons at a Masked Ball. — I 
witnessed a strange sight at one of the masked 



316 Count Talleyrand Perigord's Theatricals. 

balls at the opera in Paris. A young man of her- 
culean strength had intruded himself among a 
party of dancers in a quadrille, and laid violent 
hands on a young lady already engaged. The 
gentlemen of the party new to the rescue, and for 
a few minutes all was confusion. ; but four or five of 
the secret police presently appeared on the scene, 
and arrested the cause of the disturbance. I was 
surprised to observe that none of the other persons 
engaged in the disturbance were molested, but al- 
lowed to dance as if nothing had occurred, and on 
quitting the ball I determined to unravel the secret. 
After some trouble, I found that the party was com- 
posed of the sons of Louis Philippe and some of 
their friends, who were completely metamorphosed 
by the aid of false wigs, &c. 

On my mentioning the circumstance to a friend 
of rniue, Count D , he said that they often dis- 
guised themselves, and appeared thus in public; and 
that one day during the preceding summer, after 
dining with them at Chantilly, the Duke de Nemours 
proposed a stroll, and taking out of his pocket his 
false wig and whiskers, said, " You, sir, have no occa- 
sion to disguise yourself ; but as it fell to my lot 
to be the son of a king, I am obliged to have re- 
course to disguise and strategy from momma; till 
night." 

Count Talleyrand Purigoex/s Private Thea- 
tricals. — Among the many ludicrous incidents 
that occurred during the reign of Louis XVIII. , I 
recollect the following : — The Count Talleyrand Peri- 
gord having been appointed Ambassador — or, more 
properly speaking, minister — at Berne, determined 



Talleyrand's Opinion of Wellington. 317 



to amuse his friends with theatrical representations ; 
accordingly his dining-room was arranged with 
side-scenes, drop-scenes, and all the stage requisites, 
and he invited the dignitaries of Berne to witness 
the opening of his little theatre. The Count in- 
tended to have represented the part of a miller, and 
therefore ordered his valet de chambre to take off 
his coat, and to bring him some flour from the kit- 
chen, with which to cover himself in a manner that 
would make the disguise appear natural. The 
valet obeyed his master's instructions to the letter, 
and, begging the Count to shut his eyes and remain 
motionless during the operation, the servant emptied 
the contents of a box of flour over his master's 
head. At that moment a courier arrived with the 
news that the Emperor Napoleon had disembarked 
at Fregus. This intelligence excited the diplomate 
to that degree that he flew out of the house, with 
the intention of calling upon the English minister 
to know whether he had received any tidings of the 
kind. The strange appearance in the streets of the 
Count covered with flour, occasioned a commotion 
in the quiet town of Berne. Men, women, and 
children followed the French minister, crying out, 
" Take care of him, for he is mad." In a word, it 
was with difficulty he got back to his hotel, where 
he found the company assembled and waiting for 
the performance which had been promised; but, alas! 
the nerves of the Count were so terribly disturbed 
that he relinquished the idea of enacting the part 
of the miller. 

Prince Talleykand's Opinion op the Duke of 
Wellington. — There are some personages who seem 



318 Talleyrand's Opinion of Wellington. 

to gain, and others who lose, dignity and import- 
ance, when the achievements by which they acquired 
honours and fame are recorded in biography. The 
name of Wellington, by universal consent, heads 
the list of military commanders : he is not more 
distinguished for his military genius than for his 
sagacity and judgment. The late Prince Talleyrand, 
being at a dinner in London, soon after the French 
Eevolution in 1830, was asked his opinion of the 
Duke of Wellington. The Prince replied : — " First, 
I must tell you that when the Duke of Wellington 
came to Paris in 1814 as English Ambassador, I 
was then Minister of Foreign Affairs. The skill the 
Duke displayed as a diplomatist was astonishing. 
He never indulged in that parade of mystification 
which is generally employed by ambassadors : 
watchfulness, prudence, and experience of human 
nature, were the only means he employed ; and it 
is not surprising that, by the use of these simple 
agencies, he acquired great influence over those with 
whom he was brought into contact. 

" When the Emperor Napoleon returned from 
Elba, the Duke went to Vienna, where we (that is, 
the ambassadors and ministers of nearly every 
court of Eiirope) had been congregated for the last 
six months. On the Duke's arrival, his first ques- 
tion was, ' What have you done, gentlemen 1 ' 
Prince Metternich replied, ' Nothing ; absolutely 
nothing/ The Duke listened to what every one 
had to say, with his usual unassuming and non- 
chalant air ; but it was evident that, while he 
seemed astounded at times at what he heard, he 
was exercising his great powers of observation and 
reflection. Determined not to lose a moment, he 



Mots of Talleyrand. 319 



put his shoulders to the wheel, and the machinery, 
which had before moved so slowly, was at once put 
in rapid motion : in the incredibly short period of 
three days everything was arranged and finished, to 
the wonder and satisfaction of all his colleagues. 

"After the battle of Waterloo, the illustrious 
Duke returned to Paris, where he had frequent 
opportunities of communicating with me, and, on 
the return of the King, I occupied my old post, 
that of Minister for Foreign Affairs. I was then 
more than ever convinced that the man who had 
fathomed the designs of all the cabinets of Europe 
was an extraordinary statesman. I discovered that, 
while others found everything impracticable which 
was proposed to them, Wellington appeared never 
to discover a difficulty In a Avord, gentlemen, if 
we consider him in all his relations, public and 
private, it can safely be said that the Duke of Wel- 
lington is the greatest man that England, or any 
other country, ever produced." 

Mots of Talleyhand. — General Count de Gir- 
ardin had a most ugly squint, and was extremely 
inquisitive. Upon one occasion, he asked Talley- 
rand, " Comment vont les affairs, Prince ?" " Comme 
vous voyez, General , tout de travers. 1 ' 

Fontaine, the architect, who built the triumphal 
arch in the Carrousel, placed upon it an empty car, 
drawn by the famous bronze Venetian horses. 
Talleyrand asked him, " Qui avez vous Vintention de 
rnettre dans le char?" The answer was, " L'JSm- 
pereur Napoleon, comme de raison," upon which 
Talleyrand said, " Le char Vattend." 

General Flahault, who when young was bald, 



320 The Prince de Ligne. 



had received an invitation to dine with the Prince 
de Talleyrand. In the course of conversation, he 
expressed to the Prince a desire to present some- 
thing rare to a great lady as a mark of his 
esteem. Talleyrand replied, " Then present her 
with a lock of your hair." 

The Emperor Nicholas at the Hague. — On 
the occasion of the late Emperor of Russia's last visit 
to England, he returned home via the Hague, for 
the purpose of paying a visit to his relative the 
King of Holland. During the few clays the_ Czar 
remained there, a levee was held by the King, in 
order that his Imperial Majesty might have an 
opportunity of seeing the flower of the Dutch aris- 
tocracy Among those present, the Emperor singled 
out a remarkably tall but well-built man, who was 
considered the handsomest fellow in Holland, the 
Baron Capelli, whose right arm had been amputated, 
owing: to a wound received in a duel. The Em- 
peror, little imagining how the limb had been lost, 
approached the Baron, and inquired in what battle 
he had had the misfortune of losing his arm. " I 
lost it in a duel, your Majesty," was the cool 
reply The Emperor, without a word, turned upon 
his heel, and said afterwards to one of his friends. 
" It is a pity so fine a fellow should have been sacri- 
ficed : he had better have been killed in battle." 

The Prince de Ligne. — I had the honour of 
being invited by the Prince de Ligne to his country 
seat, Bel' (Eil, one of the most magnificent mansions 
I ever saw. In looking over the old portraits of 
this princely family, the Prince jocularly observed, 



The Prince de Ligne. 321 

<: You have few old families in England : in other 
words, your nobility are mostly of modern date ; 
but no one will contest that you have no Lords, for 
they are created by every minister who holds the 
helm." 

Speaking of the manners we English indulge in 
towards foreigners, the Prince told me the folio win a- 
anecdote — " I was sent by the King of the Belgians 
to London, as Ambassador Extraordinary, to con- 
gratulate your Queen on her accession to the throne. 
During the period of my sojourn at your Court, 
diplomatic dinners were given daily It happened, 
that upon one occasion I was asked a question as to 
the state of the Belgian army, when a noble Lord, 
a ci-devant ambassador, without the slightest pro- 
vocation, made a very offensive remark to me. I 
instantly left the dinner-table to consult a friend 
as to what steps ought to be taken to resent the 
insult offered ; but, after thinking the matter over, 
it was considered the act of a madman, and there- 
fore, to prevent scandal, and the creation of a bad 
feeling between the English and the Belgians, the 
affair was allowed to drop." 

It is much to be regretted that we English are 
even now in the habit of regarding all foreigners in 
an unfavourable light. The vulgar brag that any 
John Bull is a match for three Frenchmen, and 
other extravagances of a similar description, are 
becoming obsolete ; but English tourists are still 
apt to disparage foreigners, and entertain the notion 
that when we set foot on the Continent, a system of 
cheating and extortion commences. These and simi- 
lar prejudices, arising from ignorance of the language 
and usages of foreign nations, naturally create a 

x 



322 The Emperor's Extra Equerry. 

bad feeling towards England and Englishmen. 
Foreigners say, and not without justice, that we 
are pre-eminently self-conceited, boastful, and proud. 

Pride of a Spanish Grandee. — The Marquis of 
St Jago, a young Grandee of Spain, was at one time 
the theme of conversation in Paris, owing to his 
eccentric habits and the dissolute manner in which 
he lived. Although well born, and sufficiently edu- 
cated to be selected to accompany the Spanish 
Ambassador to England on the occasion of our 
gracious Queen's Coronation, he possessed an un- 
paralleled fondness for dissipation, and an extensive 
acquaintance with the class of flatterers. Moreover, 
an absurd idea as to his pretensions to rank induced 
him to wear the ribbon of the French Cross of the 
Legion of Honour, and although " chaffed " about it, 
he continued to do so ; until one day, at the Jockey 
Club, some one present flatly told him that he had no 
right whatever to the decoration then in his button- 
hole : which was true. This public rebuke proved 
such a stunning blow to the pride of St Jago, that 
he returned to Madrid broken-hearted, and died 
there at the early age of thirty - 

The Emperor's Extra Equerry. — Some persons 
will have perceived with surprise that an English- 
man, moving in good society, should have consented 
to receive the appointment of extra Equerry to the 
Emperor of the French. The occasion of his being 
installed into that office was as follows. — The 
gentleman in question had, when at Eome, shown 
some civility to Prince Louis Napoleon. The 
gossip of the day ran, that on the Prince's elevation 



The Duke of Wellington and Lord Strangford. 323 

to the purple, some one meeting our countryman 
coming out of the imperial stables, recommended 
him to ask for General Fleury's post, as he was 
better qualified for an equerry than that gallant 
General. Our countryman, taking the hint, 
promptly solicited an audience of the Emperor, 
which being granted, he coolly made the surprising 
application that had been suggested to him. The 
Emperor endeavoured blandly to silence the aspi- 
rant to stable honours, by reminding him that he 
was an Englishman ; but added, " If, sir, you are 
really in earnest, I will name you one of my extra 
equerries." And this offer was gratefully accepted 
by the gentleman in question. Tempora mutanter! 

The Duke op Wellington and Lord Strang- 
ford. — Not long before the death of the Duke of 
Wellington, the late Lord Strangford, on his return 
from Paris, was invited by the Duke to pass a few 
days at Walmer Castle. His Grace inquired whether, 
during his sojourn in the French capital, he had 
seen Lord Hertford ; upon which Lord Strangford 
replied he belonged to the same club, where they 
frequently met. "Ah!" added the Duke, "Lord 
Hertford is a man of extraordinary talents. He de- 
serves to be classed among those men who possess 
transcendent abilities. What a pity it is that he 
does not live more in England, and occupy his place 
in the House of Lords. It was only the other day," 
added the Duke, "that Sir Eobert Peel observed, 
when speaking of Hertford, that he was a man 
of great comprehension ; not only versed in the 
sciences, but able to animate his mass of knowledge 
by a bright and active imagination. In a word, if 



324 Canrobert Reviewing the British Army. 

he had lived in London, instead of frittering away 
his time in Paris, he would have no doubt become 
Prime Minister of England." 

Marshal Magnan's Opinion of British Sol- 

s 

diers. — Soon after the Coiq? dEtat, it fell to my 
lot to hear Marshal Magnan state, in the presence 
of several persons who expressed a doubt of the 
efficiency of the British army, that he had been in 
the Peninsula in 1813 and 1814, and in eleven 
battles, but never saw the back of the British 
soldier. This announcement, on the part of a 
Frenchman high in command, who had seen real 
service, completely silenced his garrulous country- 
men. 

Marshal Canrobert Keviewing the British 
Army. — At Compiegne, some two or three years 
back, Marshal Canrobert related a fact which re- 
dounded to his credit. At a review of the British 
army in the Crimea, the Duke of Cambridge, who 
was to have inspected the troops, observing the 
French Marshal approaching with his staff, re- 
quested him to assist, and to take the right ; where- 
upon the Marshal acquiesced. When they came to 
the drooping of the colours, Canrobert's blood 
thrilled in his veins at seeing; the names of several 
of our victories over the French ; however, having 
undertaken the task of reviewing our troops, he 
accomplished the arduous and painful duty im- 
posed upon him, and went clown the line without 
evincing the slightest emotion. When he related 
this incident there were several general officers 
present, some of whom ventured to expostulate. 



An Act of Charity. 325 

The Marshal said, " There is no use in expostulating 
and endeavouring to conceal the fact ; but those 
victories inscribed upon the colours were won by 
the British troops against us." 

A Heady Retort. — C. de M -, one of the most 

fashionable, at the same time one of the cleverest, 
young men of the Restoration, had the singular 
taste of beino- in love with two ladies each old enough 
to be his mother. The one a duchess, the other a 
celebrated actress. When the Duchesse de Berri 
asked him whether it was really true that his taste 
was for old women, he replied, " Old, Madame, je 
suis I'homme du siecle." 

An Act of Charity. — Not many years back, on 
a cold winter's day, an eccentric Baronet was in the 
shop of Mr Mitchell in Bond Street, where a few 
friends of his used to congregate to pick up the news 
of the day On this occasion, the Baronet was boasting 

of his munificence, when in came Colonel de B 

of the Guards, and addressing him said, " My dear 

S -, I have just left our poor friend, Jack S , in 

a spunging-house without a shilling in his pocket to 
pay for a mutton chop." " Is it possible 1 ? '"' exclaimed 
our eccentric friend. " I will go and order something 
for the poor fellow which shall make his heart glad." 
And saying this he jumped into his cab, which was 

waiting at the door. Colonel de B lost no time 

in calling on the poor debtor, and told him he was in 

luck, as S had promised to do something for him. 

In a short time our charitable Baronet arrived at 
the spunging-house, bringing — not the good things 
that a man needs in such a predicament — but a 



326 Madame Alboni. 



pottle of strawberries, which he boasted he had 
given two sovereigns for ! 

Madame Alboni. — About twelve years ao-o the 
inimitable Alboni, having finished her engagement at 
the Theatre des Italiens, Paris, entered into one with 
the manager of the Opera at Nantes, to sing there and 
at the watering-places adjacent. She left Paris dressed, 
as usual, in male attire, accompanied by a lady who 
passed as the wife. During the first week after their 
arrival at Nantes, they lived in furnished lodgings 
on the Place Royale, and thought of nothing but 
the piano and their scales ; the incomparable singer 
attracting the other occupants of the house to the 
landing place, ever and anon, by the power of her 
splendid voice. One day, something occurred which 
created a misunderstanding between Alboni and her 
friend : from high and violent words they came to 
blows, and a neat " back hander " of Alboni's on the 
other's nose caused blood to flow. The injured lady 
ran down stairs, and implored the porter to go for 
a surgeon ; but the man, alarmed for the respecta- 
bility of the house, instead of obeying, went to the 
police and informed them what had occurred. On 
his returning with two policemen, Alboni and her 
friend were found in hysterics ; nevertheless, they 
were hurried off, more dead than alive, to the police 
office. 

When the Commissary began to interrogate the 
lady with the bloody nose as to the origin of their 
quarrel and other particulars, Alboni stepped for- 
ward, and addressing the man in authority, ex- 
plained that they began to quarrel about a note in 
a song in " La Gazza Ladra," which opera was to be 



The Derby of 1 865 and French Racing. 327 

given that evening. The Commissary, wondering 
what it all meant, asked their names, which were 
given by the ladies, and Alboni implored him to 
release them with as little delay as possible, as she 
had scarcely time left to dress for the theatre. The 
Commissary took the ladies by the hand, and con- 
ducted them to the door, saying that he was ex- 
tremely sorry that his agents had acted in so pre- 
cipitate a manner as to bring through the public 
streets two ladies of such standing, without first 
ascertaining that there were good reasons for their 
being arrested. Alboni bowed, and said she hoped 
to see the officer that night on the stage. The 
invitation was readily accepted ; and. when the 
vocalist perceived him at the conclusion of the 
opera, she flung her arms round his neck, to the 
astonishment of all present. 

The Derby of 1865 and French Racing — 
The victory gained on the 31st May 1865, on 
Epsom Downs, by what is technically known as 
the " French stable," is a proof what good blood, 
careful training, and good living, under the super- 
intendence of English trainers and stable-boys and 
-\ " captain " like Grimshaw, can do for such a spe- 
cimen of horseflesh as " Gladiateur ;" whose preten- 
sions to being French consist in just this, that his 
sire was born in France, together with his dam : 
but their pedigrees run through the very purest 
blood of English racehorses. His owner, the Comte 
de Lagrange, well deserves the success which has 
crowned his perseverance in turf matters. 

Unfortunately, the French will not understand 
what sport really is, in the generally received ac- 



328 The Derby of 1865 and French Racing. 

ceptation of the term in England. At a French 
race, nine-tenths of the men go there merely be- 
cause it is fashionable, and because it is a more ex- 
citing way of killing time than sitting in a club 
reading the newspapers ; and as for the women, it is 
an opportunity for showing off a " fast," but, be it 
confessed, a becoming toilet, and thus becomes an 
attraction irresistible to a Frenchwoman. Of the 
true spirit of the affair the French comprehend not 
one iota. 

Since the introduction of racing into France by 
Sir Charles Smith, — when the races run in the 
Champs de Mars were more often won by the 
mounted police, who accompanied the horses from 
the start to the finish, than by the beautiful speci- 
mens of " thorough- bred s" that were then imported, 
— the breeding of " blood stock" has occupied the 
attention of many Frenchmen, and has been at- 
tended with no small success ; for not only have 
our neighbours procured from us our purest bred 
stallions and mares, but they have secured the ser- 
vices of English trainers and jockeys : upon whom 
they will have to depend for many, many years to 
come. 



London : Printed by Smith, Eldir and Co., Old Bailey, E.O. 



CHEAP EDITIONS OF POPULAR WORKS. 

Fca/p. 8vo, uniformly bo\md in limp doth, price 2s. Qcl. each' 

JANE EYRE. By Charj jtte "Jrohte. 
SHIRLEY. By Charlotte Beoste. 
VILLETTE. By Chaelotte Beonte. 

! WUTHERING HEIGHTS. By E?t.y Bronte. AGNES GREY. By 
* ssb Bboste. With Preface and ?' noir of tht iisters, by Chablotte BBoirrt. 
! TH£' TENANT OP WILDFELL HA T;L. By Anne' Bronte. 

| Tb '< PROFESSOR. By Chat.lotte Bronte. To which are added, The 
Poems of Ohablottb, Ewily, a»d Anwb I^okt 
THE LIFE OF CHARLOTTE BRtxVTE. By Mrs. Gaskell. 
SYLTlA'b LOVEB?.. By Mrs. Gaskell. 
.WIVES A :) DAUGHTERS: an Every -day Story. By Mrs. Gaskell. 
NORTH AN » SOUTH. By Mrs. Gaskell. 

THE AUTGj-i. JRAPHY OP LUTFULLAH, a Mahomedan Gentleman. 

Edited by uOWasd B. Eastwick, F.R.S., F.S.A. 
AFTER DiJfis. By Wilkie Collins. 
BELOW THE SURFACE. By Sir A. H. Elton, Bart. 
TRANSFORMATION; or, The Romance of Monte Beni. By Nathaniel 

Hawthobhb. 
AUTOBIOGRAPHY C P LEIGH HUNT. Edited by his Eldest Son. 

THE TOWN : Its Memorable Characters and Events. By Leigh Hunt. 

Witii Forty ■•" i Wood Engravi;. 3, 
IMAGINATION AND FANCY; or, Selections from the English Poets. 

By Leigh Hunt. 
DEEP «ROOK • a Tale of Country Life, By Harriet Martineau. 
HOUSEHOLD EDUCATION. By Harriet Martineau. 

LECTURES ON THE ENGLISH HUMOURISTS OP THE 

EIGHT ?,I?,NTn CTJITSTTBY. By W. M. Thackebat. 
PAUL THR POPE AND PAUL THE PRIAR. A S ory of au Interdict. 



By T. Adolveus Tbollopb. 



LONDON: SMITH, ELDER, & CO. 



The following in Pictorial Covers, price 2s. each:— 

RECOLLECTIONS AND ANECDOTES OP THE COURT, THE CAMP, 

AND THE CLUBS. By Cuptain Gbosow. 
THE HOTEL DU PETIT ST. JEAN. A Gascon Story. 
HESTTiR KIRTON. By Katharine S. Macquoid. 
WAiiP AND WOOF. By Holme Lee. 
AGNES OP SORRENTO. By Mrs H. B. Stowe. 
ACAT--T WIND AND TIDE. By Holmj; Lee. 
!■' 7L _i HCLT'8 DAUGHTER. Dy Holme Lee. 
K .VTfilE LRAx.DE : a History of a Quiet Life. By Holme Lee. 
,*;ALFS OP TlH COLONIES; or, Adventures of an Emigrant. 
I AV 1*7' v. by ».he Author of " Dr. Antonio" and Lorenzo Be oni." 
ROMANS J TA TiES. By the .' uthor of " „ >,hn Haluax, GentManan." 
I OMEIsi >C STORIES. Bv the Author of " John Halifax, Gentleman." 
NO NAME. By Wilkie Collins. 






