SATURDAY, MAT 31, 1947. / 

SIR S.H. NICHOLSON,' 
..BRITISH ORGANIST 

. ,-V^ Jj? 



Founder of School of Church 

Music Dies Had Served 

at Westminster Abbey 

___m; 

Special to THE Nw Yowc Tiiii. 

LONDON, May 30 Sir Sydney 
Hugo Nicholson, church musician 
and former organist at Westmin- 
ster Abbey, died today at Ashford, 
JKerit. His age was 72, 

Sir Sydney founded the Royal 
! School of Church Music at Chisle- 
hurst, Kent, after publication of 
the report of a committee set up 
by the Archbishops of Canterbury 
and York to consider the pface of 
music in the worship of the church 

There were many sides to his 
efforts to rescue church music and 
{especially singing from -what he 
I once said had become "a mere con 
glomeration of words with wrong 
accents." He was, however, par-i 
'ticularly active in stimulating in- 
iterest in and heightening the ef-i 
;ficiency of choirs. 
1 His services to church music 
I were recognized in knighthood be- 
j stowed upon him in 1938 and 
earlier by a musical doctorate at 
I Canterbury. 

When Sir Sydney resigned In 

1927 as organist of Westminster 

! Abbey, a post he had held for ten 

, years, he gave the reason for his 

, action as a desire to devote his 

! career to the founding of a college 

of church music for the training 

of organists and choirmasters to 

beautify church . services. 

"The usual colleges of music 
| cannot adequately train leaders of 
! church music because they have 
not a choir," he said. "I hope to 
have a chapel wherein a full choir 
is maintained to help set the stand- 
ards of church music, from which 
all parishes may benefit." 

Sir Sidney was educated at Rug- 
by, New College, Oxford. He be- 
came organist of Lower Chapel, 
Eton College, in 1903; acting or- 
ganist, Carlisle Cathedral, in 1904 
and was organist of Manchester 
Cathedral from 1908 to 1917. He 
was a Warden of St. Nicolas Col- 
lege, Chislehurst, and the com- 
poser of a number of cantatas 
light operas and much church 
music. He was a member of the 
\then aeum Club, 




[OLA. Save thee, friend, and thy music : Dost thou live 
by thy tabor ? 

Clown. No, Sir, I live by the Church. 
Viola. Art thou a Churchman ? 

Clown. No such matter, Sir ; I do live by the Church : 
for I do live at my house, and my house doth 
stand by the Church. 

Twelfth Night, ///., 7. 




WESTMINSTER BRIDGH 



WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

BEING A 

RECORD OF SERVICE 

IN 

CHURCH, CATHEDRAL, AND ABBEY 
COLLEGE, UNIVERSITY, AND CONCERT-ROOM 

WITH A 

FEW NOTES ON SPORT 



BY 

SIR FREDERICK BRIDGE 

Commander of the Royal Victorian Order 
King Edward Professor of Music in the University of London 

Graham Professor of Music 
Emeritus-Organist of Westminster Abbey 




LONDON 

NOVELLO & CO., Ltd. | HUTCHINSON & CO. 

New York: THE H. W. GRAY CO. 






Hi 

I ; M 



bebicatefc 
Co my lOtfc 

mfyose assistance anb 

encouragement in compiling 

tfyis u?ork ^ar>e been 

invaluable 



PREFACE 



THE Canterbury Pilgrims, many years ago, probably 
passed through the streets or in the immediate neigh- 
bourhood of the old City of Rochester as they wended 
their way to and from the Shrine of Thomas a Becket. 
Their journeys lay through a diversified and beautiful 
country, and though toilsome could not have been 
without many happy days. Through the streets of the 
same old City of Rochester, nearly seventy years ago, 
I used to pass to and fro to attend to my duties 
at the Cathedral, starting on the Pilgrimage recorded 
in the following pages. My journey has been a long 
one, my experiences very diversified. I have had as 
companions, like the Canterbury Pilgrims, a varied 
Company of all Professions and Ranks of Men. My 
life's work has been attended with many joys and 
some sorrows, yet my days have not been really 
toilsome, and I have indeed been happy in my 
opportunities. The notes of my life which I have 
been tempted to put on record contain nothing very 
remarkable, of that I am quite conscious. But the 
duties which have fallen to me in connection with 
many important functions at the Abbey will be of 
some little interest to my friends at least. And 
possibly the story of my career may be an encourage- 
ment to some boy or boys in Cathedral Choirs upon 
whom in due time the care of our Cathedral Music 
may devolve. In the past the Cathedral Choirs have 
furnished men who have nobly held to the best 
traditions, and so I hope it may be in the future. The 
difference between the present time, with its oppor- 
tunities for young musicians, and the distant time of 



viii A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

my own youth is immense. Then, there was only one 
Musical College, the Royal Academy of Music ; there 
was only one scholarship (outside the R.A.M.) available 
for young musicians the Mendelssohn ; there were 
no Local Examinations in Music ; only one really 
important orchestra (the Philharmonic) existed in the 
whole country, excepting, of course, after a time the 
Halle Orchestra in Manchester. Organs were incom- 
plete and old-fashioned, Bach's Fugues could not be 
properly executed upon them. And yet, with all 
these drawbacks, I made progress, and my Cathedral 
training laid a foundation upon which I have, at 
various times, relied to see me successfully through 
musical responsibilities of no light order. 

Most of my life has been devoted (though not 
exclusively) to the service of the Church. As boy 
and man I have served under seven Deans, I have 
worked with eleven Precentors, while Canons, Vicars- 
Choral, and Choristers are too numerous to mention. 
Outside the Church I have laboured at my Profession 
as Conductor, Teacher in Colleges, Lecturer, and 
University Professor. In all these various ways I have 
tried to serve the cause of Music. Whether I have 
done all that in me lay, readers of the following pages 
must decide. But, at any rate, I can conscientiously 
say I have done my best to fulfil worthily the duties 
of any position to which I have been called. 

LlTTLINGTON TOWER, 

December, 1918. 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER I. ... i 

Duke of Wellington's Funeral Rochester Cathedral Mr. J. L. 
Hopkins Private Theatricals A Barrel of Apples A Caning Incident 
Mr. Miles An Ingenious Use of a Mirror Joseph Maas Launch 
of the " Cressy " Landing of Princess Alexandra at Gravesend An 
Ideal Precentor. 

CHAPTER II. 18 

Opening of the Crystal Palace by Queen Victoria Miss Hackett 
and Sydney Smith The Crimean War Musical Evenings with Officers 
of the Garrison Removal of the Old Stone Bridge Deans and Canons 
of Rochester Mr. Whiston v. The Dean and Chapter Competition 
for the Organistship of Rochester Quaint old Customs Two Terrible 
Melodramas Rochester Subscription Concerts in the 'fifties Sims 
Reeves at a War Concert An Historical Extravaganza. 

CHAPTER III 32 

First Organ Lessons Blind Fred as Critic An Obstinate Alto 
Organ Interlude and the Man with the Glass-Eye Recollections of 
Charles Dickens Early Appointments The Volunteer Band 
Marching Past Her Majesty at the Hyde Park Review Humiliation 
at a Review Jenny Lind in "Elijah" Hearing Wesley open an 
Organ Pupil of Goss, at St. Paul's. 

CHAPTER IV. 42 

Canvassing the Parish Appointment at Windsor The Hawtreys 
Private Theatricals Mrs. Oliphant Early Choral Works Life- 
Guardsmen at a "Churching" "Reform" Election at Windsor A 
Political Parrot Musical Degree Ouseley and the " Stretto maestrale " 
Arthur Sullivan at Windsor Cathedral Appointment. 

CHAPTER V. 51 

A Stroke of Fortune Life in Manchester Professorial Work 
Music in the Cathedral Inadequate Choir Mass Weddings New- 
Organ A tremendous choral bass " The little ' beggars ' in front "- 
Prescient Remark concerning " Gerontius " Mus. Doc. Degree 
Hall at Manchester An Involuntary Immersion Refused Admission 
to Westminster Abbey Retirement of Turle The Vacancy and Dean 
Stanley " Choosing an Organist more difficult than choosing a wife " 
Organist of Westminster Abbey. 



x A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

PAGE 

CHAPTER VI. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 70 

Westminster Abbey Death of Turle Dean Stanley's r61e of 
Musical Critic Dean Stanley and Bach's "Passion" Early 
Difficulties with the Choir The Press and the Vicars-Choral " An 
Error of Judgment " A Dental Interlude" Bellows v. Diaphragms " 
Professorial Appointments: National .Training School and Royal 
College of Music Sir George Grove and Sir Hubert Parry Three 
Registrars of the Royal College Attwood and Mozart : Exchange of 
Compliments Educational and Literary Publications The Caxton 
Celebration. 

CHAPTER VII. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 90 

First visit to Scotland First Salmon A Great Success in the 
"Lower Beat "" Catch " to commemorate a Catastrophe "Sit 
down on him " A Fishing Record on the Deveron Caught by the 
Tail A Distressing Accident with a Fly The Valley of Glass 
Anecdotes of the Minister "I gae'd oot at the window" A 
Peninsular Warrior The Dominie and the "Examiners." 

CHAPTER VIII. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 107 

A Grouse Drive Deer Stalking Sir George Martin and the Deer 
Edward Silas and the "Amorous Goat" Railway Incidents Slatin 
Pasha Debates in the House of Commons A Nocturne. 

CHAPTER IX 117 

Lord Tennyson's "The Goose" Presentation of the Musicians' 
Company's Medal to H.R.H. The Prince of Wales (Edward VII.) 
Bach ' s " Christmas Oratorio ' ' Music-makings at Worcester Festival 
Festival Competitions Grieg and Dvorak at the Birmingham 
Festival Visit to Gounod at Paris Processional effect in Notre Dame. 

CHAPTER X. 128 

Queen Victoria's Jubilee An Awesome Serpent Fenian Alarm : a 
"Black Bag " in the Organ-Loft Queen Victoria at the Jubilee Festival 
The National Anthem in the Abbey Lockhart's Jubilee Picture 
A " Devoted Friend " at the Auction A Distinguished " Man Servant." 

CHAPTER XI. 138 

The Browning Memorial Service and Mrs. Oliphant The Madrigal 
Society The Gresham Professorship Funeral of Lord Tennyson The 
Marquess of Lome's Hymn Princess Beatrice's Bazaar Book The 
Jenny Lind Memorial Death of Canon Prothero Musicians' 
Company's Exhibition Dr. Pearce and the " Common C(h)ord." 

CHAPTER XII 153 

Purcell Celebration Purcell's Te Deum : A Dramatic Incident 
Purcell Memorial in the Abbey Purcell's Residences Relics A 
Purcell Myth Purcell Stops in the Abbey Organ Conductorship of 
the Royal Choral Society A "Cabman Critic" A Contrapuntal 
Waiter. 



CONTENTS xi 

PAGE 

CHAPTER XIII. ... 168 

Diamond Jubilee Celebration Knighthood Sir William Cowers 
Sir William Crookes : "Timing" a Knighthood Dean Hole and 
his " West Front "The "Flag of England "Mr. Rudyard Kipling 
and his Poem Funeral Service for Mr. Gladstone The Duke of 
Westminster and ' ' Westminster Bridge. ' ' 

CHAPTER XIV i 77 

Coronation of their Majesties King Edward VII. and Queen 
Alexandra Earl Marshal's Letter The Bishop of Winchester and 
the Music Canon Armitage Robinson and his Valuable Work A 
learned Gillie Musicians who contributed to the Service The Problem 
of the " Vivats " A Veteran Singer from Wells. 

CHAPTER XV 187 

Coronation (continued) Composers and their Contributions Sir 
Francis Bertie and Dr. Saint-Saens Rehearsals in the Abbey for the 
Processions Postponement of the Coronation King Edward and 
the Music at the Postponed Ceremony The ' ' Vivats ' ' at the 
Coronation The Procession of the Regalia Trinity College of Music 
and Foundation of King Edward Chair. 

CHAPTER XVI 196 

Interesting Details of the Musical Arrangements at Previous 
Coronations Meagre Choral Force at Coronation of William IV. 
Letters of Sir George Smart Braham and Balfe Old Members of the 
Coronation Choir at Windsor Goss as a Lay-Vicar i8th Century 
Coronation Music. 

CHAPTER XVII 202 

The Bi-Centenary of the Death of Pepys Foundation of the Pepys 
Club Funeral Service for the Duke of Cambridge Memorial Service 
for the Marquess of Salisbury Editorship of the Methodist Hymn- 
BookHandel and Water Speech at the Sheffield Conference 
Some Native Humour. 

CHAPTER XVIII 212 

Memorial Service to Christian IX. of Denmark Thanksgiving 
Service for Safe Return of Prince and Princess of Wales from India 
Orlando Gibbons Commemoration Lecture Tour in Canada Dr. Vogt 
and the Mendelssohn Choir Meeting with Sir Robert Borden and Sir 
Wilfrid Laurier. 

CHAPTER XIX 221 

Memorial Window to Sir Benjamin Baker Death of King Edward- 
National Memorial Service Lying in State in Westminster Hall 
S. S. Wesley Centenary Dean Armitage Robinson leaves the Abbey : 
His help in Editing some Motets of Dering Only Survivor of Abbey 
Community of 1875. 



xii A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

PAGE 

CHAPTER XX 231 

Coronation of King George and Queen Mary Another Homage 
Anthem A Shrewd Suggestion from Sir Walter Parratt Sir Henry 
Irving as a Musical Critic Edward Lloyd's Solo Awarded the 
C.V.O. Dinner given by the Coronation Choir Presentation 
Coronation Baton : Two Inscriptions. 

CHAPTER XXI 238 

Funeral Service of Lord Lister Memorial Window to Lord Kelvin 
First Service for the Knights of the Bath for a Hundred Years : Letter 
from Bishop Ryle Memorial Service for the Duke of Argyll Speech 
by Mr. Rudyard Kipling Welsh National Service Letter from 
Mr. Lloyd George. 

CHAPTER XXII 251 

Royal College of Organists Dr. Turpin National Training School- 
Sullivan as a Teacher of Counterpoint Dr. Prout as Orchestral Critic 
Royal College of Music Professorial Appointment suggested by the 
Prince of Wales Death of Sullivan Joachim and the Examination 
Paper Trinity College Tour with Dr. McNaught. 

CHAPTER XXIII 264 

Gresham Professor Fraternal Visit of London University to the 
University of Paris Imperial College of Science : Laying of Foundation 
Stone by H.M. King Edward Royal Choral Society Conductorship, 
and a Letter from Sir George Grove Prout as a " Toucher-up "- 
Joseph Bennett and Mozart Royal Philharmonic Concerts. 

CHAPTER XXIV 281 

Renewed Acquaintance with Maas An Operatic Effect that 
Miscarried A Light Opera that was Lost to the World Co-Director 
in an Opera Company Ganz as Entrepreneur Fortuitous Intervention 
of a Sidesman A Ludicrous Faust. 

CHAPTER XXV 288 

The Musical Association Re opening of Manchester Cathedral 
Organ Career and Death of Malibran Manuel Garcia : Centenary 
Banquet and Honours. 

CHAPTER XXVI 296 

Resum^ of Canadian Journey The Scotch Element in Canada 
Canadian Musicians : the Cathedral Tradition Dr. Charles Harriss 
Ottawa and its Historic Associations Colours of Canadian Regiments 
at the Abbey Anniversary of Confederation of Canada. 

CHAPTER XXVII 302 

An Early Canadian Friend Madame Albani and Queen Victoria 
Oratorio " The Repentance of Nineveh " Norwich Festival and Morte 
d'Arthur An Incident in the Highlands Randegger and the Coronation 
Choir Jubilee of Cambridge University Musical Society Tchaikovsky 
and Saint-Saens Grieg at a Philharmonic Concert. 



CONTENTS xiii 

PAGE 

CHAPTER XXVIII 308 

The Muniment Room Early Records concerning the Organ A 
Quaint Epitaph Thomas Dallam's Journey to Constantinople 
Presentation Organ by Queen Elizabeth to the Sultan of Turkey 
Portrait Gallery of Abbey Organists Purcell Score : Autograph 
Corrections The Abbey Bells : An Historic " Ringer's Bill." 

CHAPTER XXIX. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 332 

R6sum6 of the Work of a Cathedral Organist Duties and 
Emoluments of Lay-Vicars Choirboy Education The Archbishops' 
Report Status and Privileges of the Organist Organists' Benevolent 
League The Question of Musical Education : Provision for Students. 

CHAPTER XXX. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 343 

Some Devoted Assistants in the Organ-Loft Service Music for 
the Abbey: " Palestrina and His School" End of Pilgrimage: 
The Philosophy of Humour Apothegm of Lord Houghton's 
A Lancashire Adage Letter from Bishop Ryle Valediction. 

APPENDIX ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 350 

List of Works performed by the Royal Choral Society under the 
Author's direction during the years 1896-1918. 

INDEX 353 



THE Author desires to express his obligation for the 
use of photographs, &c., to the following : Messrs. 
Ive & Lowe, Ltd., Chatham, for " Six Poor Travellers " ; 
Messrs. Guttenberg, Manchester, for "Three Ex- 
Organists of Manchester Cathedral " ; Messrs. 
Lafayette, Ltd., Manchester, for the portrait of Mr. 
S. H. Nicholson at page 320; Messrs. J. Russell & Sons, 
Baker Street, W., for the portrait of the Author at page 
320; and the Proprietors of the Church Monthly for 
permission to use autobiographical notes appearing in 
their columns. 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



" WESTMINSTER BRIDGE " ... ... ... ... Frontispiece 

(From the original of the " Vanity Fair " Cartoon by SIR LESLIE WARD, 
now in the possession of the Author.} 

Face page 

"OLD CATHEDRAL . . . EARTHY SMELL" ... ... i 

ORGANISTS OF ROCHESTER CATHEDRAL ... ... ... \ 

CHAPTER HOUSE DOORWAY, ROCHESTER ' X 6 

Six POOR TRAVELLERS, HIGH STREET, ROCHESTER ... j 

FIGUREHEAD OF H.M.S. "CRESSY"... ... ... ... 32 

Miss MARIA HACKETT (1783-1874) ... ... ... 48 

MANCHESTER CATHEDRAL: THE CHOIR ... ... ... 64 

THE AUTHOR'S HOUSE IN THE LITTLE CLOISTERS... ... 80 

ROD AND GUN ... ... ... ... ... ... ... 96 

THREE EX-ORGANISTS OF MANCHESTER CATHEDRAL ... -j 

THE AUTHOR'S HOME AT GLASS, ABERDEENSHIRE ... [ 

THE CHOIR AND ORGAN OF WESTMINSTER ABBEY ... 128 

A CURIOUS BASS TROMBONE ... ... ... ... ... \ 

LlTTLINGTON TOWER IN 1840 ... ... ... ... L 144 

CAPTAIN COOKE'S SIGNATURE ... ... ... ... ... j 

THE MEDAL OF THE MUSICIANS' COMPANY ... ... ... ) 

ROOM IN PURCELL'S HOUSE IN BOWLING ALLEY j" 

HENRY PURCELL (1658-95) 176 

SIR FREDERICK BRIDGE IN His DOCTOR'S ROBES... ... 192 

THREE VETERANS ... ... ... ... ... ... 208 

SAMUEL SEBASTIAN WESLEY (1810-76) ... ... ... 224 

ROSE-WATER DISH IN SILVER GILT, PRESENTED TO THE 

AUTHOR BY THE SAMUEL PEPYS CLUB 
FELIX MENDELSSOHN-BARTHOLDY (aged 12) 
PORTRAIT OF THE AUTHOR (aged 9) 

CONTEMPORARY BUST OF HANDEL ... ... ... ... 288 

GARCIA AND HALLE PLAYING CHESS ... ... ... ... 304 

ORGANISTS OF WESTMINSTER ABBEY ... 320 

PORTRAIT OF THE AUTHOR ... ... ... ... ... 336 

(Specially draum for this book by 
SIR WILLIAM RICHMOND, K.C.B., R.A.) 




" Old Cathedral earthy smell." 

THE GKEAT WEST DOOR OF ROCHESTER CATHECKAL. 
(From a uattr-colour sketch by S. Aveling.) 



A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 



CHAPTER I. 

Duke of Wellington's Funeral Rochester Cathedral Mr. J. L. 
Hopkins Private Theatricals A Barrel of Apples A Caning 
Incident Mr. Miles An Ingenious Use of a Mirror Joseph 
Maas Launch of the "Cressy" Landing of Princess Alexandra 
at Gravesend. An Ideal Precentor. 

IT was the day of the funeral of the Duke of Wellington 
in St. Paul's, November i8th, 1852. In a corner of 
the Norman Nave of one of our oldest Cathedrals, the 
Passing Bell was being solemnly tolled as a tribute 
to the departed hero. The ringer was a blind man 
(who also acted as organ-blower), known to all as 
" blind Fred." A little chorister stood by watching 
the monotonous pulls of the rope and listening to the 
mournful response of the bell. After a while the boy 
somewhat surprised the blind man by exclaiming, " Let 
me have a pull or two, Fred, I should like to say I had 
tolled the bell for the great Duke of Wellington." The 
request was acceded to, and the little deputy bell-ringer 
gave a few tolls for the Iron Duke. The place was 
Rochester Cathedral (that "old Cathedral too earthy 
smell pilgrims' feet worn away the old steps " so 
ingeniously summarised by Mr. Jingle), and the little 
chorister was myself. 



2 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

When he wrote "The Pickwick Papers" Dickens was 
quite a young man, but he evidently knew the Cathedral 
of Rochester very well, as is evidenced by his allusion 
to the steps worn by pilgrims' feet, and later in the 
same sentence to "Jerkins too matchlocks." These 
worn steps led up to the Chapel of St. William of 
Perth, the patron saint of the city, who it is said was 
murdered near Rochester in the I3th century, while on 
a pilgrimage from Scotland to the Holy Land. During 
the centuries his shrine became a resort for pilgrims, 
and in this same Chapel I was often allowed to look at 
a soldier's equipment comprising a buff jerkin and a 
matchlock, which were preserved in a case. 

Thus early in my pilgrimage, as already described, 
did I take part in a ceremony of National mourning. 
I have attended a good many such functions since 
then as director of the music, and not as bell- 
ringer and although my musical studies began as 
a probationary chorister in 1850, I always feel that 
this occasion was the real beginning of my career. 

The funeral of the Duke of Wellington is vividly 
impressed on my mind, on account of two of the choir- 
boys of Rochester having been selected to assist in the 
Choir at St. Paul's Cathedral. I recollect wishing 
I had been a senior boy to have gone to that great 
ceremony, and well remember the boys rehearsing the 
music composed by Goss for the service.* 

My father was a Vicar-Choral of Rochester Cathedral, 
having gone to that old Cathedral city in 1850, from 
Oldbury in Worcestershire, where I was born on 

* It is an interesting fact that when the funeral service was 
held in Westminster Abbey on the death of the Earl of Beaconsfield, I 
suggested to Dean Stanley the performance of part of this same music, 
commencing with the words, " Know ye not that a Prince and a great man 
is fallen this day in Israel." I told Dean Stanley for what occasion it was 
composed, and in agreeing to my suggestion he made the observation that 
" The death of Lord Beaconsfield had made a greater impression on the 
public mind than the death of any great man since Wellington." 



IN THE HOP-GARDENS 3 

December 5th, 1844. He was a devoted musical 
amateur, played the flute a little, and sang in the Church 
choir. Possessing an excellent tenor voice, he was 
desirous of leaving the Black Country and getting if 
possible a Cathedral appointment. The opportunity 
came, and he accepted a vacant post at Rochester. I 
well remember the journey from Birmingham to 
Rochester, including the open third-class carriages on 
the North Kent railway, absolutely like cattle trucks, 
and my first view of the old Cathedral where, my 
mother informed me, " Your father sings." 

I cling tenaciously to every remembrance of my 
childhood days at Rochester. For me the change 
from the Midlands to the ancient city on the Medway 
was a delightful experience. The neighbourhood of 
Rochester was then quite rural and very picturesque 
with its numerous hop-gardens and cherry orchards. 
It was a custom at my home for the children to be 
taken to the hop-gardens during the hop-picking season, 
to spend a happy day. The hop-pickers in those days 
were mostly poor people from Rochester, many of whom 
my parents knew. The migrant crowds from London 
were not then a feature. We would take up our station 
with, I suppose, the capriciousness of children, beside 
the bin at which some poor woman would be picking, 
and devote ourselves to what was for us the delightful 
game of picking hops. By this means we amused our- 
selves, and added to her earnings. The days spent in 
those gardens have a treasured corner in my memory. 

But possibly we enjoyed ourselves even more in 
the cherry orchards than in the hop-gardens. Our 
excursions were generally made to an orchard owned 
by a friend at Gillingham (then a village, now a 
large town), one or more fellow choristers making 
up our party. It was all a fruit-growing country, 
stretching from here to Faversham. The delight of us 



4 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

boys at being allowed to climb ladders into the very 
heart of the trees, and eat as many cherries as we could 
(and sometimes, I fear, more than were good for us), 
may be imagined. Those black-hearts and bigaroons 
are a luscious memory. I recollect we resolved artful 
boys that we were to throw the stones, if possible, 
into the next field so that our host would not know how 
many we consumed. The subtlety of this little trick 
has been in my mind more than once in later years, 
when I have been shooting grouse and probably 
expending a great many more cartridges than was 
justified by the few birds there were to show for so 
much ammunition. On several occasions I have been 
tempted to resort to a furtive strategy, and hide my 
failure by distributing the empty cartridge-cases as 
remotely as possible in the heather! 

I suppose I showed musical tendencies, having been 
admitted as a " practising boy " or " probationer " at the 
tender age of six years. There were six probationers, 
who attended the school and service preparing for the 
position of regular chorister. We had to undergo an 
examination for voice and ear, and this preliminary 
trial was made very pleasant for me by the kindness of 
Mrs. Hopkins, the wife of the organist, J. L. Hopkins. 
She evidently took a fancy to the candidate, whom, 
after the trial, while my father was talking to Mr. 
Hopkins, she provided with an orange and various 
other delicacies. Many years after, when I was organist 
of Manchester Cathedral, Dr. Hopkins (who was then 
organist of Trinity College, Cambridge) came to stay 
near Manchester where I also was a guest. As we 
walked about our host's grounds I recalled this little 
episode to him : " Ah ! " said he, " if I had rejected you 
then, how different might have been your career." 
Dr. Hopkins was himself a chorister in Westminster 
Abbey, and I often think how he would have been 



CHOIR SCHOOL EDUCATION 5 

interested in seeing the post of organist there filled by 
the little boy whom he started on his musical career ; 
unfortunately he died before I was appointed. 

And thus began my chorister days and musical life. 
Twice daily we attended the Cathedral Service, the 
practising boys or probationers sitting near the choir, 
but not wearing surplices. We were taught the rudi- 
ments of music by one of the Vicars-Choral, who was 
wont to correct our bad production by pulling our ears 
and pretty hard he pulled, too ! I gave much trouble 
by holding my head a little to one side, a fault which 
caused my poor ears many a pang ! This was doubtless 
owing to defective vision of one eye, which was in later 
years discovered and thenceforth corrected by the use 
of spectacles. A chorister in spectacles would have 
been looked upon as an impossibility in my young days ; 
now we attend to such matters, and correct imper- 
fections in other ways than by pulling ears ! Besides 
music, we received of course a general education, our 
school-master being also a Vicar-Choral. This educa- 
tion was not very wide in its scope, but our master 
taught well enough all that was expected of him. 
" You'll learn enough here to carry you through the 
world," he often said, and it must be admitted that a 
goodly number of the boys he taught have done well 
in the world. 

With all its defects and limitations and they were 
many the Choir School at Rochester in those days 
compared very favourably with other institutions of a 
similar kind. A writer in the Choristers' Magazine (a 
quarterly periodical issued by the Abbey choristers), 
recalling his days in the Choir School at Westminster, 
says : "... it seems hard to realise that the authorities, 
who had the best years of a boy's life in their hands, 
treated us with such indifference . . . The only thing 
that most of us excelled in was sacred geography very 



6 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

good in its way, but hardly sufficient to fit one for a 
future career." He speaks of the grievous disappoint- 
ment of his parents, who had taken him away from a 
good school at Chelsea to enter him at the Choir 
School, naturally thinking " that it would be an excellent 
thing " for him. Another writer in the same Magazine, 
referring to a period a few years earlier, says : " No 
one received any education. Walter Macfarren came 
to school with me [in Charles Street, Westminster] for 
a short time, but not one of the others attended any 
school, and yet many turned out clever and important 
men and organists of our Cathedrals." 

The old Vicar-Choral who was our master at 
Rochester did not err greatly in his estimate of the 
amount of knowledge that it was necessary to acquire 
in order to get " through the world." But it is question- 
able whether the world of to-day would, in the main, be 
" got through " with the same casual and haphazard 
preparation. 

It is a somewhat remarkable fact that up to the present 
time seven of those old Rochester boys have filled the 
organistships of the Cathedrals of Carlisle, Durham, 
Ripon, Exeter, Chester, and Manchester, and of West- 
minster Abbey, and three of them became University 
Professors of Music.* 

That more could have been done as regards 
education for the boys of the choir is, however, only 
too true. It is but recently that Cathedral authorities 
all over England have recognized the fact that the 
boys should be well taught as at other schools, and 
boarded in a special school-house. Our school room 
was for a time in an otherwise empty house in the High 
Street of Rochester. This gave us opportunities for 
pranks of all sorts. I remember a fine display of 

* Dr. Armes and Dr. J. C. Bridge at Durham, and myself at London 
University. 



SCHOOLBOY PRANKS 7 

fire-works in the cellar (to the great danger of the 
unsuspecting neighbours), also some private theatricals, 
when the big boys took the part of Red Indians, wearing 
not a vestige of clothing except blue and red paint- 
What a scrubbing there was to get this stuff off their 
faces before Service, I need hardly suggest ! The 
school was afterwards transferred to an ancient room 
over one of the old gateways in the Precincts. This 
again was the scene of some amusing incidents. We 
used occasionally to go there in the evening to rehearse 
for concerts given by the Vicars-Choral. The boys 
afterwards were dismissed, the Vicars-Choral and their 
friends remaining for further practice or a pipe. It was a 
favourite custom for us to extinguish the candle which 
was placed in a window of the winding turret-stair. The 
Vicars- Choral thought it was an accident caused by the 
wind, but one night the boy who ascended to blow out 
the light was considerably astonished by a smart blow on 
the ear, which apparently came out of the darkness ; 
he rolled down the stairs, and we took to our heels ! 
Next day during school hours we tremblingly awaited 
the dreaded observations of the master. These were 
delayed almost past endurance, but at last he seemed 
to be coming to the point ! By way of reproof to a boy 
who had noisily crossed the room he told us of an 
adventure which showed, he said, how noiselessly he 
himself could walk ! " After you had left last night," he 
began, and then went on to describe exactly the incident 
of the boy attempting to blow out the candle, and how 
smartly he had been caught as he did it ! We all 
trembled as he concluded, fully expecting that there 
would be a few scathing words, and a general caning at 
the end. But no ; the master was quite unconcerned, 
and unconscious that we were the culprits. It was 
not until many years after, at his Jubilee presentation, 
that he was told of this and of other pranks by the writer. 



8 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

While speaking of the school, I may as well tell a 
final story of those old days. At a later period of my 
school life we were removed to yet another room, in 
a house inhabited by the school-master in the Precincts. 
It was a rambling old place, with an enormous roomy 
cellar. The master was about to punish a boy his own 
son for some misdemeanour, when the young gentle- 
man suddenly slipped out of the door, across the hall, 
and out into the yard at the back. His father, after a 
moment's surprise, followed him cane in hand, and 
arrived in the yard just in time to see the culprit dis- 
appear into the capacious cellar. He felt perfectly 
certain that his bird was trapped, and followed without 
undue haste. After a time he reappeared in the school, 
and to our surprise said, " Have you seen Willie ? " 
" He went out into the yard, Sir," we replied. " Oh, 
yes," said the master, " and into the cellar, but I have 
thoroughly searched and he has most unaccountably 
disappeared." I do not remember when the boy re- 
appeared, but his method of escape, somewhat original, 
was as follows : The master, not long before, had 
purchased a barrel of apples, which was placed in the 
cellar. The barrel and its contents had been discovered 
by his children, and the apples consumed. The 
empty barrel, well-known to the runaway, he quickly 
turned over, and as his father, cane in hand, prowled 
around, the boy within it watched him, with some 
anxiety, through the bung-hole. 

Our schoolmaster used the cane pretty freely, and he 
had one refinement of punishment which was very 
original, which he would resort to if a boy's fault was 
very heinous. In his eyes the most serious faults were 
prevarication and falsehood. One boy was particularly 
prone to these (I will not give his name, but he became 
a very good member of society all the same). This 
boy seemed always to be undergoing verbal reproof for 



REFINEMENT OF PUNISHMENT g 

his infirmity, and if in the service there occurred one 
of the Psalms referring to lies such as the 58th, " The 
ungodly are froward . . . they go astray, and speak 
lies;" or the loist, "There shall no deceitful person 
dwell in My house " the master would say to the boy r 

" Master , did not your conscience prick you ? " 

and the boy always answered " Yes, Sir." The method I 
have referred to, and to which such admonitions were 
the prelude, was to send the delinquent down the 
High Street to purchase a good, stout cane with which 
he was to receive chastisement when he returned ! 
This occurred more than once in the experience of the 
same boy who never failed to bring back the cane, 
so that if he lacked the grace of truth, he certainly 
did not fail in fidelity. 

I was really fond of singing in the choir, and 
never found the work irksome. I can quite well 
recall some of the effects produced on the organ, 
not only by John Hopkins but also by Dr. J. L. Hopkins, 
who left for Trinity College, Cambridge, in 1855. 
Never very strong, I on one occasion fainted during the 
Psalms, and as I was at the end of the choir stalls and 
there was no door, I fell with my head on the marble 
pavement, cutting a deep gash (the mark of which I still 
bear), and was carried out by my father and the verger. 
On another occasion I had to go out feeling very unwell. 
It was Christmas time, and I suppose I had been a little 
greedy ; a great humiliation was laid upon me at the 
hands of the head verger, a Mr. Miles (who is said to 
have been the original of one of the characters in" Edwin 
Drood"). As I emerged from the Choir into the Nave, 
Mr. Miles took off my surplice, and then, addressing a 
considerable number of people who (as the custom was 
then) had assembled in the Nave to hear the anthem 
and escape the sermon, he pointed to the poor little 
white chorister, and said " Too much pudd'n ! " He was 



io A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

a cheerful and humorous man, but I never quite forgave 
him for holding me up to ridicule. I believe he retired 
from the choir in 1848 on the ground of ill-health, yet 
he lived to be over ninety all the same, and was a great 
personage in the Cathedral. 

So far I have spoken of school life ; let me now 
add a few words on the musical side of our education. 
This was on the whole an interesting and thoroughly 
good training. The organist, Dr. J. L. Hopkins who, 
as I have said, had been trained as a chorister in 
Westminster Abbey was one of a family which has 
become distinguished in music. Two of his cousins 
were Dr. Hopkins, of the Temple, and John Hopkins, 
lately at Rochester. Mr. Edward Lloyd, also, is a 
nephew. John Hopkins was a pleasant, energetic man, 
understanding thoroughly the training of the voice. 

An aid to our vocal studies which he devised was 
exceedingly ingenious, and I do not seem to have heard 
of it elsewhere. He had made and presented to each 
boy a little oval mirror, which we held in the palm of 
the left hand while beating time with the right. We 
had to look into the mirror and see that the form of 
our mouth was what he wanted. It amused us a little, 
but made us think also. 

Hopkins had a great horror of "bawling," and I 
well remember his anger when the wife of one of the 
Canons ventured to say we " bawled." This same lady 
was a terror to me when I began to play part of the 
service, for she always complained of the noise I made, 
yet I found out she once took the precaution of sending 
the verger to make sure it was I, and not my master, 
who was playing. Besides our practices for the 
Cathedral, we sang much secular music, an excellent 
and improving thing for boys whose work was so much 
on sacred lines. There was a Choral Society 
conducted by Hopkins, at which we often assisted, 



ARMES AND JENNY LIND n 

and here I made the acquaintance of madrigals and 
oratorios. The solos were usually taken by the 
Vicars-Choral and the boys. One boy (later the 
organist of an English Cathedral), an admirable 
singer, got into a terrible scrape at one of these 
concerts. He had to sing the solo in some small 
cantata I think it was Romberg's " Lay of the Bell " 
and when the time came for the solo his voice 
absolutely refused to respond ! Hopkins glared, 
the boy turned green, while all were aghast at the 
contretemps. It was impossible to help it, and the 
solo was omitted. The explanation was that Master 

had been tempted to try his hand at smoking, 

the brand being a bit of cane ! I fear he got a different 
brand of cane next day. 

We always had a good solo boy. Armes was in the 
choir when I was a probationer, but his voice was gone, 
and I cannot say that I ever remember hearing him 
sing a solo. He was originally a chorister in Norwich 
Cathedral, and, I believe, had sung in a duet at 
Norwich with Jenny Lind. Armes was a very efficient 
boy vocalist. In recognition of his work in the choir a 
subscription was raised at Rochester, and he was 
presented with a fine Broadwood pianoforte when he 
became the articled pupil of the organist. 

He was succeeded by E. J. Crow, who later in life 
became organist of Ripon Cathedral. Crow was a 
beautiful singer ; I have never heard the Finale in 
Wesley's " Wilderness " " And sorrow and sighing " 
sung better by any soloist in any choir. He had a 
peculiarly delicate and effective way of singing the 
word "sighing," with its appoggiatura, which I shall 
never forget. 

In his turn a boy named Williams became the leading 
soloist. He too possessed a beautiful voice, and I can 
recall the great effect he once produced in Purcell's 



12 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

" O sing unto the Lord." This was on the occasion of 
a selection performed in the Cathedral at a service on 
behalf of the Choir Benevolent Fund in 1858. Here a 
word may be said concerning this admirable Society. 
It was established in the year 1851, under the auspices 
of Lord John Thynne, Sub-Dean of Westminster, for 
the benefit of necessitous members of Cathedral choirs. 
The funds are maintained by individual subscriptions 
of a nominal amount, and by festivals given at various 
Cathedrals. It was at one of these festivals when 
the choir of Rochester was augmented by that of 
Canterbury, and a good many of the choristers of 
St. Paul's and the Chapel Royal that the fine duet in 
Purcell's anthem, to which I have alluded, was sung by 
Williams and Mr. Fielding, who was a well-known alto. 
At the dinner which was given in the evening, we of 
Rochester were all very proud to hear the way in which 
so many members of distinguished choirs spoke of our 
solo boy. I do not know what became of him, except 
that he did not go in for music. He may have gone 
into the Army, for he was very high-spirited, and would 
have made a fine soldier. The younger members of 
the choir held him in high esteem as the hero of a 
tremendous fight which he had with the head-boy of 
a school kept by one of the Minor Canons. This school 
was situated at the back of Minor Canon Row, where 
we all assembled, unknown of course to the Master, 
Precentor, or Minor Canon. It was a furious pugilistic 
encounter, and went on for a considerable time. I 
cannot say how it would have ended, for it was suddenly 
interrupted by the terrible apparition of the enraged 
cook, who rushed into the room ; nor do I remember 
if she carried a weapon, but she effectually separated 
the combatants ! 

There is nothing particularly exciting to chronicle in 
my chorister days ; they were happy times, and were 



FISHING EXPEDITIONS WITH MAAS 13 

spent in a truly happy home. I began to learn to 
play the piano, but was rather lazy at it in fact 
for a short time my lessons were discontinued " because 
I would not practise." I soon, however, got over 
this lazy fit, and I believe made steady progress, 
so that I was able to accompany my father in some of 
his much-loved oratorio airs. My great friend in the 
choir was Joseph Maas, who became so celebrated as a 
tenor singer, and whose early death robbed us of a 
lovely voice and a charming man. I well remember him 
when he came, a small boy, to have his voice tested. 
He possessed an exceedingly beautiful soprano, and 
speedily was able to sing the solos in the Cathedral. 
Very often he and I went to one of the Canon's houses 
when there was a dinner party, Maas singing to my 
accompaniment. One song we were particularly fond 
of was " The Brook," a setting of Tennyson's beautiful 
words, the rippling accompaniment of which I was very 
proud of being able to perform. We were generally 
rewarded by a money " tip " and a good feast downstairs 
afterwards. The servants generally got a song out 
of Maas, which brought us an extra supply of sweets. 
Maas was devoted to fishing, and helped to stir within 
me that love for the angler's art which I still indulge. 
Our most pleasant fishing excursion was to Cooling 
Castle, with its beautiful I2th century gatehouse, 
still in an almost perfect state of preservation. The 
tale of its defence in 1554 by the then Lord of Cobham, 
against Wyatt's rebellion, was an interesting one to us 
boys. It was about seven miles from Rochester, and the 
moat contained roach and carp. We generally made 
up a party of five or six boys, rewarding the kind 
residents of the Castle by singing a part-song or two. 

Maas and I often went to the village of Snodland, 
where there was a good trout stream. It was in this 
stream I landed my first trout. I confess it was not 



14 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

with a fly, but the more humble worm ! Other fishing 
excursions were made to Farleigh, a delightful place 
above Maidstone, where we would sit all day beside 
the Medway throwing in huge lumps of ground-bait, 
and gentles, pulling out as a rule a very good basket 
of perch and roach. I believe I brought more zest to 
this sport than is now the case in my sometimes 
toilsome efforts to land the lordly salmon. 

Poor Maas loved fishing till the last, and it was a 
cold caught on a fishing excursion that brought on the 
illness that terminated fatally in 1886. I composed 
a tune for, and played the organ at, the funeral service 
of this dear friend of my youth.* 

Now and then the Cathedral choristers would go over 
to Maidstone to sing at concerts. These were great 
events. There was no railway at that time, and we 
had to return to Rochester by coach shortly after 
midnight, coming over the well-known high ground of 
Bluebell Hill with its ancient cromlech called Kits 
Cotty House. If possible we boys rode outside the 
coach, with the particular intention of playing a trick 
upon the poor old turnpike-keeper below Bluebell Hill. 
The old man had to turn out about 2.0 a.m., with his 
lantern, to open the gate. As soon as it was fairly 
open we would give him a rousing salute from the 
pea-shooters with which we always went armed. The 
language he used was very " warm " ; even to this 
day I remember it, but forbear to put it down ! 

My own voice was weak. I never sang any solos at 
these music-makings and rarely in the Cathedral ; but 
I was a good, reliable reader, and continued in the 
choir until over fourteen years of age. 

* In a later chapter, turning aside from the broad path of my 
Pilgrimage, and surveying again the diversified scenes that I have 
traversed, I recur to Maas along with others whom I have known as 
friends and playmates. In the same chapter, also, I describe some activities 
and incidents that occupied me by the way. 



LAUNCH OF THE " CRESSY " 15 

At this time my love for the organ began to 
make itself felt ; I used also sometimes to blow 
for one of the pupils to practise. I well remember 
pumping (with another boy's help) while the late 
distinguished organist of Durham Cathedral, Dr. 
Philip Armes, then a pupil, was practising Bach's 
" St. Ann " Fugue. He varied the practice by playing 
the chorus " Baal, we cry to thee," from " Elijah," 
while we, pumping away behind the organ, sang 
a travesty of the words, concluding with an invitation 
to Baal to " come and pump for us.' 

Shortly after Armes left Rochester he became 
organist of St. Andrew's, Wells Street ; also he took his 
degree at Oxford, and I remember him coming to a 
service wearing his Bachelor's gown and beautiful 
Oxford hood. I believe the sight of this distinction 
was the first stirring within me of a desire to go and 
do likewise. A few years afterwards I heard he had 
become organist of Chichester Cathedral. In after years, 
when he had proceeded to Durham, I found in him, 
as will be seen later on, a cordial friend and colleague. 

We were kept pretty close to our daily duties, 
holidays being few and far between. We had always 
to ask the Canon in Residence, and sometimes he was 
opposed to the choral service being dropped even 
for one afternoon. The launching of a big warship 
at Chatham was an occasion when we got leave. I 
remember seeing the "Cressy,"* perhaps one of the last 
of the old wooden walls, come out of the slips on 
to the Medway. Quite lately I saw the figure-head of 
my old friend outside Castles' ship-breaking yard, near 
Vauxhall Bridge ! It gave me quite a pang ! 

* The Secretary of the Admiralty very kindly furnishes the following 
particulars of the old ship : " The ' Cressy ' was a two-decker, laid down 
at Chatham as an 8o-gun third-rate in 1846. By an Admiralty order issued 
in November, 1852, she was converted while building into a screw-ship, 
and was launched in July, 1853. She served in the Baltic in 1854-55." 



16 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Another occasion for a holiday was when Princess 
Alexandra landed at Gravesend, before her marriage 
with the Prince of Wales. I had then left the choir, and 
was in the organ-loft as an articled pupil of John 
Hopkins, the organist. I accompanied the boys to 
Gravesend, where we all assembled outside the railway 
station and joined in the cheering. 

Our repertoire of music sung in the Cathedral was 
really very extensive, and it is to the credit of the 
musical authorities that they were among the first to 
appreciate the value of Wesley's splendid volume of 
Cathedral anthems which appeared in 1853. The 
Dean and Chapter of Rochester subscribed for copies 
of this great work, but I regret to say that the list of 
subscribers did not include the Dean and Chapter of 
Westminster. The Precentor (the Rev. W. Shepherd) 
and organist were fully alive to the value of these 
anthems, " The Wilderness " and " Blessed be the 
God and Father," now so well known, appearing 
in the lists almost every other week for a year or two, 
and very well were they done. 

I also remember well the appearance of the fine 
Service music by Edward John Hopkins, the organist of 
the Temple, and the impression made upon me by his 
playing when he paid occasional visits to Rochester. 

Having referred as above to the Rev. W. Shepherd, 
I must not omit a reference to another Precentor of 
Rochester with whom I came in contact. Among all 
such dignitaries whom I have met, his charming face 
and sweet disposition linger in my memory: he was the 
Rev. T. T. Griffith (not the Vice-Dean, Dr. Griffiths), 
and held office during part of the term of my articles. 
Well endowed with that fine skill and adroitness 
which we call tact, he was enabled in his dealings 
with people to get them to do exactly as he wished. 
Canons gave way to him, while the organist was quite 



ORGANISTS OK ROCHESTER CATHKDKA 





JOHN I.. \KKIN HOPKINS (1841-13,6). 




CHAPTER HOUSK DOORWAY, 
ROCHESTER. 



Six POUR TKAVKI.J.KKS, Iln;n STKI:I:I', 
ROCHESTER. 



17 

docile. As to the choir, they all loved him. He 
introduced much new music, his choice revealing, 
perhaps, some bias towards the modern school. A 
very good alto singer, he organized social meetings 
for the practice of part-songs, &c., in various houses in 
the neighbourhood. I profited in my accompaniments 
by many hints that he gave me, information that 
he always imparted without any objectionable words 
or manner. He even got Mr. Hopkins to come out 
of his shell a good deal, and altogether the Rev. T. T. 
Griffith was an ideal Precentor. Late in life he 
accepted a living in a delightful part of Surrey, where I 
often visited him. He displayed great interest in the 
rehearsals of the Coronation choir; I rejoiced to see 
his familiar face in the gallery at Church House. 
This very dear friend lived to the great age of eighty- 
four years, and when he died I felt that in him was 
severed an arresting link with the past. 



CHAPTER II. 

Opening of the Crystal Palace by Queen Victoria Miss Hackett 
and Sydney Smith The Crimean War Musical Evenings with 
Officers of the Garrison Removal of the Old Stone Bridge 
Deans and Canons of Rochester Mr. Whiston v. The Dean and 
Chapter Competition for the Organistship of Rochester Quaint 
old Customs Two Terrible Melodramas Rochester Subscrip- 
tion Concerts in the 'fifties Sims Reeves at a War Concert 
An Historical Extravaganza. 

THE first great musical gathering in which I took 
part was the opening of the Crystal Palace at 
Sydenham, by Queen Victoria, in 1854. A large choir 
was formed, which included that of Rochester 
Cathedral, and I sang in this choir under the 
direction of Costa. Clara Novello sang the solos 
in the National Anthem ; her clear, beautiful voice 
still seems to ring in my ears. She put in an 
ornament on the word " us " 




and as she lingered on the high B flat, an old gentleman 
behind me, a member of the choir, exclaimed enthusias- 
tically, " That 's a beauty ! " This was the first time I 
had seen the Queen, and I need not say how interested 
I was. The Prince of Wales (afterwards King 
Edward) and Prince Alfred were there as boys, 
besides many other notable and distinguished people. 
The conductor rather astonished us by swinging both 
his arms, to right and left, but of course it was a 
very large choral and instrumental body. We boys 



THE CHORISTERS' FRIEND 19 

were greatly interested to see the various gentlemen 
presented to Her Majesty, and delighted when one 
made an awkward slip on retiring backwards down 
the steps and nearly came a cropper ! It was a great 
scene, but a very hot and tiring day. I suffered 
agonies from thirst while on the platform. One sight 
was peculiarly attractive to us choristers. Among the 
singers were the Children of the Chapel Royal in their 
splendid dress of scarlet and gold ; we ordinary 
choristers were filled with admiration and envy. It 
may be noted that among those Chapel Royal boys 
was the youthful Arthur Sullivan. 

In connection with a chorister's life, I must not 
omit to mention the visits of Miss Maria Hackett. She 
was a lady who made it her mission to improve 
the education and general position of the boys in 
Cathedral choirs. Her advent was always welcome 
to us, because we knew that after service we should be 
paraded, our names entered in her little book, and we 
should receive a small tip. Her work is well known. 
I need not dwell upon it here, except to say that 
she lived to see the education of Cathedral choristers 
put upon a higher level than it was in my youthful 
days. Her labours for choristers have been recorded 
on a tablet erected in St. Paul's Cathedral. Miss 
Hackett was a regular attendant at St. Paul's, and 
a little witticism of Sydney Smith's respecting her may 
be chronicled. Miss Hackett much loved to hear 
Mr. Goss introduce " thunder " at appropriate verses in 
the Psalms. On one occasion when the atmospheric 
disturbance took place, Sydney Smith said to a fellow 
Canon, " Have you ever noticed when Mr. Goss 
* thunders,' how Miss Hackett's face * lightens ' ? " 

Another little witticism of Sydney Smith's in connec- 
tion with Goss was told to me by the latter. Sydney 
Smith was a Canon of St. Paul's at the time Goss was 



20 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

a candidate for the organistship. Goss had been a 
pupil and assistant of Attwood, and so was hoping to 
get the appointment. A dinner was given to some of the 
Cathedral body in the Chapter House of St. Paul's, 
Goss, as assistant-organist, being among the guests. He 
was somewhat anxious concerning the view Sydney 
Smith took as to his fitness for the post, but his mind 
was set at ease by a remark of the witty Canon, who 
with nice acumen was serving a salmon. Turning 
to Goss, he politely asked him did he prefer " thick 
or thin." Goss named his choice, and the Canon 
promptly made rejoinder, "Always happy to serve you., 
Mr. Goss, through thick and thin.' 1 

The War with Russia (1854-56) provided many 
days of excitement in Rochester. Troops continually 
marched through the streets to embark for the Crimea, 
causing much enthusiasm. I remember the departure 
of the i8th Royal Irish, a brave but somewhat 
noisy body of men, singing, as they wended their way, 
Henry Russell's fine marching song " Cheer, boys, 
cheer ! no more of idle sorrow," though the night before 
they had broken out of barracks and nearly killed one 
or two policemen. Poor fellows, many of them died 
gloriously, at the attack on the Redan. The Charge of 
the Light Brigade is an incident impressed on my mind 
by hearing my father speaking of it, and showing me a 
picture of Lord Cardigan on his charger, surrounded 
by Russians and apparently jumping over enormous 
cannon and other impediments ! 

The officers of the garrison, it need hardly be said, 
were beings whom we greatly venerated. Some of them 
we got to know very well. They would come frequently 
to the Cathedral services many of them, indeed, were 
very musical. By permission of the organist a senior 
boy, E. J. Crow (who, as I have said, afterwards became 
organist of Ripon Cathedral), and I went several times 



A WATERLOO VETERAN 21 

to the Royal Engineer Barracks to sing part-songs 
with some of these musical officers. They treated us 
extremely well, giving us a good feed, which, boy-like, 
we greatly enjoyed, while they on their part seemed 
greatly to appreciate the musical evenings. We were 
amused at their astonishment at the way Crow and I 
could read whatever music they put before us, they 
having so much difficulty in singing their own parts even 
after practice. Frequently they would let us play with 
their swords and pistols, which I fear were of greater 
interest to us than the music. I can catch, even now, 
the joy that such informal music-makings were to us. 
Moreover it was an invaluable experience for young 
boys, as we were, thus early to come under the influence 
of those Engineer officers, who, keen and active soldiers 
as later we knew them to be, were also highly-educated 
and refined gentlemen. 

The visit of Queen Victoria to the wounded soldiers 
at Chatham was a notable event ; while another was the 
arrival of wounded officers. The son of one of the 
Canons was among these; we were allowed to see 
him at his father's house, and to hear from his lips 
some of the war incidents which filled us with 
admiration. Stories of war will always have interest 
for boys. I have already alluded to the Funeral of the 
Duke of Wellington, and my interest in that event was 
a good deal owing to the fact that among the 
Bedesmen of the Cathedral was an old soldier who 
had fought under the Duke at the Battle of Waterloo. 
He had a big scar on one cheek, which he told us was 
given him by a Frenchman in the battle. He declared 
that he ran his bayonet through the Frenchman's body, 
and would delight us by illustrating his feat with his 
walking stick. 

An interesting series of events attended the removal 
in 1856 of the old stone bridge over the Medway 



22 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

that " very Payer Bridge of Stone," dating from 
the 1 4th century, connecting Rochester with Strood. 
It was probably commenced in the year 1387 by 
Sir Robert Knolles, and was extremely picturesque. 
Its numerous narrow arches made it, I suppose, an 
obstruction to navigation, and it became necessary to 
demolish it, a very fine iron bridge being constructed 
lower down the river, on the site of the ancient wooden 
structure built in the reign of Richard II. The removal 
of the massive piers of the old bridge was entrusted 
to the Royal Engineers stationed at Chatham. This 
was an operation extending over some time, for of 
course the undertaking could not be accomplished in 
one gigantic explosion. But still it provided impressive 
scenes of considerable magnitude. Enormous crowds 
would assemble to witness the firing of the mines. 
Stationed a long way from the bridge, we listened with 
strained expectancy for the bugles whose concerted 
signal announced the critical moment. I can recall the 
tense feeling of excitement, the breathless hush, while the 
imagination traced the burning of the fuzes, the leaping 
spark eating its way inevitably nearer to the explosive 
placed in the masonry, then the dull thud of the 
explosion, like a great door shutting with a mighty slam ! 
The demolition charges were carefully designed by the 
Engineers in order to rend the piers without throwing the 
debris to any great distance. The billowing, eddying 
mass of the explosion seemed, however, to rise to a great 
height. Once or twice the sightseers had need of the 
warning to "take cover," as stones volleyed overhead, 
but so far as I know there was no accident. The 
faggots and hurdles used as mantelets to screen the 
masonry, although destroyed in the explosion along 
with the stonework, did their work well. Some of the 
old stone balustrading was preserved, and erected along 
the Esplanade, where it still remains. 



THE VICE-DEAN'S CRITICAL WIFE 23 

The Dean and Canons of the Cathedral while I was 
a chorister are still fresh in my memory, and probably 
few people have seen a Bishop in a wig, on 
his throne ? But I can remember quite well old 
Bishop Murray of Rochester wearing his wig when 
he made his Visitations. It puzzled me as a boy to 
make out what it really was ! It was a close-fitting 
wig, the front of it seeming to grow out of his 
forehead. He was, I think, the last Bishop to don this 
part of the Episcopal habit. 

The Dean, Dr. Stevens, was a very old man, and 
I believe at one time had been Chaplain to the 
House of Commons. He preached occasionally, when 
I was much struck with his deep and expressive 
voice. The Vice-Dean, Canon Griffiths, was a man 
of fine presence and physique, while also somewhat 
of an autocrat. He had ample means, but lost a 
considerable sum of money in the failure of the 
banking firm of Sir John Dean Paul & Co., against 
whom he brought an action at law. He was educated 
at Westminster School, and I have often thought 
it would have interested him to find me at 
Westminster. Several school prizes still bear my 
name inscribed by him. It was Mrs. Griffiths who 
criticised my playing of the service and accused me of 
making such dreadful noises ! Another famous Canon 
was Dr. Hawkins, the celebrated Provost of Oriel. 
The choristers were not very fond of him, as he was 
particularly averse to interfering with the daily choral 
service by giving a special holiday. I remember his 
alert little figure perfectly well ; he had a pair of sharp 
bright eyes, and a good head of short, white, rather curly 
hair. I do not recall that he ever spoke to us, 
except on the rare occasions when we ventured to beg 
for a holiday. But he was particularly courteous, and 
as he passed us on his way to the Chapter House to be 



24 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

robed, he always returned our bows with much 
graciousness. He moved very briskly, and had a 
curious habit of making a very careful and prolonged use 
of the mat before ascending the steps to the Chapter 
House, rubbing his little feet backwards and forwards 
many times. It may be a trifling thing to record, but I 
know that it struck us boys as something uncommon. 

In the pulpit he was somewhat of a terror ! He 
prefaced his sermon with a very long " Bidding Prayer," 
for which all the congregation stood. One thing he 
introduced, which other Canons omitted. He always 
bade us pray " For John, Lord Archbishop of Canter- 
bury, and George, Lord Archbishop of York, that they 
may shine like lights in the world, and adorn the doctrine 
of God our Father." I have never heard this since, but 
have never forgotten it. And then came the sermon 
very long, and very learned no doubt. Of that I 
cannot speak. 

The Archdeacon, Dr. King, was the father of the 
celebrated Bishop of Lincoln. Another of his sons was 
badly wounded in the Crimea, and was the officer 
mentioned previously who used to tell us stories about 
the war. 

The fourth Canon was Dr. Irvine, but as he was 
absolutely incapable of doing any part of the service- 
suffering from paralysis and being carried into his 
stall by his butler and the head verger I cannot say 
anything about him. 

The Dean and Chapter were at that time engaged in 
a tremendous fight waged against them by Mr. Whiston, 
the master of the King's School at Rochester. The 
quarrel is well remembered, so that I need not go into 
particulars, except to mention that it was the outcome 
of a pamphlet which Whiston wrote on " Cathedral 
Trusts and their fulfilment." He complained that the 
Dean and Chapter did much too little for the School ; 



A MEMORABLE COMPETITION 25 

they replied by attempting to dismiss him from his 
post in fact they did appoint another headmaster. 
Whiston, however, attended the Cathedral Services as 
usual, and it was very interesting to see two headmasters 
of the same school sitting side by side at the services. 
In the long run Whiston gained the day, the Dean and 
Chapter having to reinstate him in his headmastership ; 
the King's School has since flourished exceedingly. 

I well remember the competition which took place 
for the organistship of the Cathedral in 1855. J- L. 
Hopkins went to Trinity College, Cambridge, when the 
vacant post was competed for by some dozen prominent 
organists, the judges being John Goss, of St. Paul's, 
and the retiring organist. Among the competitors was 
James Coward, a fine performer, afterwards organist 
of the Crystal Palace, W. B. Gilbert (best known as 
the composer of the tune " Maidstone," now sung to 
the beautiful hymn "Pleasant are Thy Courts above"), 
and Armes, a pupil of Hopkins and a chorister of 
Rochester, who became organist of Durham Cathedral 
and Professor of Music in the University. Although only 
a boy of eleven, I took great interest in the affair, and 
can quite well recall how some of the performers differed 
in style from others. It was a very searching trial, 
for not only did the candidates play the organ, but they 
actually had to work a paper containing a chorale to 
harmonize, and a short subject on which to write a fugue ! 

In the end the choice fell upon John Hopkins, a 
brother of the well-known Temple organist and a cousin 
of the retiring organist. I heard he was far ahead of the 
other candidates in extemporizing, and can well believe 
it, for I had many opportunities, as his pupil and 
assistant, of listening to the beautiful modulations and 
dignified progressions which he could use at will. I 
never saw him with a baton in his hand. He was of a 
shy and retiring disposition, essentially a man for a quiet 



26 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Cathedral life and not one to shine in the concert 
world. He had a gift for composition, but not until late 
in life did he do much. Then he wrote a fine Service 
or two, and some beautiful organ music. He performed 
his daily duties until well over eighty years of age. 

Many quaint old customs still lingered in Rochester. 
The 5th of November, with its Guy Fawkes and fire- 
works ; the Christmas Waits, for whom I used to lie 
awake in bed to listen ; the Hot Cross Buns, early on 
Good Friday, called by various bakers' boys to a 
real bit of old folk-song : 




:zNr-fs X=ps=Tj|z: rzfizd^ ISr-ft- . -j ' II 

i-Ti<=J *=g^: \ * ^z3=j= _o 



One a pen-ny buns, Two a pen-ny hot cross buns. 



and the admission of the six poor travellers to Watts' 
Charity every night. This ceremony is immortalized 
by Dickens in his Christmas Story, " Seven poor 
Travellers." The old gabled house rebuilt in 1771, 
and restored in 1865 is in the High Street, near 
where I lived. Punctually at 6 p.m. the door opened, 
and the custodian silently pointed to six fortunate ones 
out of a crowd of poor travellers who had gathered 
during the day, and stood in a semicircle in front of the 
house. The six were admitted, given supper, a bed, 
and breakfast, and a " groat " to start them on their 
journey next day. This Charity was founded in 1579 
by Sir Richard Watts, a famous old citizen, for the 
relief of six poor travellers every night. Oddly 
enough, he specially mentions poor travellers " not being 
Rogues or Proctors." * The Charity continues to the 

* Vide " New English Dictionary," sub Proctor, " One who collected 
alms on behalf of lepers or others who were debarred from begging for 
themselves. Esp. one having a patent or licence to collect alms for the 
occupants of a ' spital-house.' (Held in evil repute from the abuse of the 
system.) " And again, Ibid., " ' Among roges and idle persons, we find to 
be comprised all proctors that go up and downe with counterfeit licences.'- 
Harrison, ' England,' 1877." 



SOME TERRIBLE MELODRAMAS 27 

present day, but the funds have so increased that 
the trustees have been enabled to erect some fine 
Almshouses for poor and decayed citizens. 

The inscription on the house in the High Street is 

as follows : 

Richard Watts Esq re 
By his Will dated 22nd August 1579 
founded this Charity 
for six poor travellers, 
who not being Rogues or Proctors 
may receive gratis for one night 
Lodging, Entertainment, 
and Four Pence each. 

Rochester possessed a theatre, and at one period 
there were performances given every night by a small 
resident company. My parents were not very keen 
about letting me go to the theatre, but occasionally 
I got permission. Two terrible melodramas that 
I saw made an impression on me that was not good, 
and which lasted for a long time. One of these 
plays was entitled " The Bleeding Nun," in which 
there was a fearful moonlight scene in a churchyard, 
an officer with a drawn sword and a nun with a 
dagger chasing each other round the tombstones. The 
nun looked ghastly, with a big, bleeding wound. I do 
not know who was the victor, but I got so frightened 
that I had to go home. 

The title of the other piece I have forgotten. The 
villain was the wicked Captain of a ship, who fell in 
love with the wife of the mate. There was a fierce 
encounter, the mate being thrown overboard. A fine 
scene of a ship at sea showed the mate clinging to the 
side with an arm over the bulwark. The Captain, to get 
rid of him, seized an axe and hacked off his hand. In 
the next scene everybody was several years older. The 
Captain had apparently married the lady, and amassed 
a good deal of money, for he lived in great state. 



28 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

A ball was given in a baronial hall, and the Captain 
and the lady were there. In the centre, at the back of 
the hall, stood a very large, old-fashioned grandfather 
clock, and at a given moment the dance ceased to let 
it occur the whole front of the clock opened, revealing 
the figure of the drowned sailor with his bleeding 
stump pointing accusingly at the infamous Captain. 
The wretch, I think, fell dead, everyone else bolted, 
and that was the end of the play! 

These scenes, as I have said, had an effect upon me 
which was not good particularly that of the nun in 
the churchyard. Like many children I was nervous 
in the dark (I never had any fear in the day-time), 
and the remembrance of the Bleeding Nun dashing 
frantically round the tombstones had such an effect 
upon me that I was afraid to proceed to my music- 
lesson at night. The way led me past the Cathedral, 
and I had to go through two churchyards. To get 
over the difficulty a younger brother was sent with 
me ; when the lesson was over he would come and 
fetch me. He had no fear but he had never seen 
" The Bleeding Nun " ! 

I will recount still one more episode of the theatre, 
when I have done with my Rochester theatrical 
reminiscences. One of the boys a terrible trouble to 
the schoolmaster; always getting into mischief, but 
really a very witty and not a bad boy managed 
somehow to procure a box order to see the play. He 
took three or four of his chums with him, of whom I 
was one, and we greatly enjoyed ourselves. I am afraid 
that a portion of the enjoyment lay in making a good 
deal of noise ! The manager put up with it for a time, 
but the climax was reached when, in a scene representing 
a sequestered wood, a very tall, lean actor came forward 
leaning on a long staff rather like a hop-pole. He 
was in terrible fear of some felonious attack, and 



" STAND TO YOUR GUNS" 29 

appeared in very great distress, calling out, " Whither 
shall I go, where shall I hide ? " to which our companion 
promptly called out, " Hide behind your walking stick, 
gov'nor ! " This knocked the actor completely out of 
time, while there was a roar of laughter from the 
audience. The indignant manager, however, promptly 
kicked us out ! 

During his term at Rochester,]. L. Hopkins directed 
some very successful subscription concerts there from 
year to year. Many of the most celebrated vocalists 
sang on these occasions, and always some representative 
names appeared in the programme. The last concert 
of the season was generally made specially attractive 
by the engagement of Sims Reeves, Madame Dolby, 
and other well-known artists. I remember that in the 
Crimean War period, Sims Reeves sang a popular song, 
" Stand to your guns." We choristers were admitted 
to the artists' room, and after his song in the concert- 
hall, in playful mood the great tenor sang it to us again, 
but this time to a little travesty of the words, " Stand 
to your pop-guns." We thought this delightful. Maas 
was present with us, and it is interesting to record that 
not many years afterwards his first great hit as a 
tenor was in singing a song of Henry Leslie's, " Annabel 
Lee," which Sims Reeves was to have sung. Maas and 
Reeves became very friendly, and at Maas's death 
Reeves sent me a wreath of flowers, with a touching 
request that I would place them on the coffin of the sweet, 
singer and charming companion, called to his rest at 
the summit of his powers. 

A curious side-light on the musical culture of 
concert audiences at that time, even at fairly high- 
class music-makings as these were, is afforded in 
the fact that the programmes were always enlivened 
by what was called a "buffo song." At Rochester 
these were generally contributed by two vocalists 



3 o A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

who were, I believe, Cathedral choristers, Messrs. 
George Buckland and James Howe. The former, 
I think, came from St. Paul's. 

At a concert given on January 24, 1855, Howe was 
down for an " Historical Extravaganza " as it was 
called. The words have not survived, but I append 
the author's synopsis, reproducing also its archaic type 
and quaint language, as printed in the programme of 
sixty-four years ago. Here it is : 

HISTORICAL EXTRAVAGANZA. 
MR. JAMES HOWE. 

"ge affecting jristorie of (Suibo Jfafohes," foitjj 
ge fulle, true, anb particular account ai jje 
(iunpofober plot: orntagngnge bitters matters 
tjjereanent neuer before mabe publgrhe. 

J. HOWE. 

Buckland's tour de force was a song entitled, if my 
memory serves me, "Miss Roseleaf's Evening Party." 
He was a clever executant on the pianoforte, and I used 
greatly to admire his admirable musical representation 
of the party going down to supper, two by two, a 
progression which he illustrated with irresistible 
comicality by playing a series of notes in thirds from the 
top of the keyboard to the bottom. A song by "Miss 
Martha Mumbles," which always broughtdown the house, 
had for its title "Thou art gone from my gaze Like a 
beautiful dream." It was a well-known ballad of the 
time. He would sing it in a high falsetto. Between 
the word "gaze" and the word "like" there is an interval 
of an octave, and Buckland found huge delight in 



A TREMENDOUS PORTAMENTO 31 

piling up a tremendous portamento from the low note to 
its octave on the word "Like." I give the music as he 
performed it : 

Slow and with feeling. 




Thou art gone from my gaze, Like 



a beau - ti - ful dream. 



I am afraid the audience really liked these songs 
better than they did the more refined numbers in the 
programme. And certainly I did ! 



CHAPTER III. 

First Organ Lessons Blind Fred as Critic An Obstinate Alto 
Organ Interlude and the Man with the Glass-Eye Recollections 
of Charles Dickens Early Appointments The Volunteer Band 
Marching Past Her Majesty at the Hyde Park Review 
Humiliation at a Review Jenny Lind in " Elijah " Hearing 
Wesley open an Organ Pupil of Goss, at St. Paul's. 

I DO not remember my first organ lesson, but 
I had a little knowledge of the pedals beforehand. 
This I acquired by surreptitiously playing upon them 
when I was in the organ-loft performing my duties 
of putting out the organist's books. I had noticed how 
they were footed when up once or twice during service 
to help Armes. He was then only a beginner, and 
found it needful to have a boy to help manipulate 
the stops. When he nodded his head I had to push in 
a pedal coupler, and when he nodded again I had to 
pull it out. This was, I believe, my real introduction 
to the organ. Soon after my fourteenth year I left the 
choir, and was articled by my father to John Hopkins, 
the organist. Soon I began to play occasional 
services at various churches, and must not omit to 
mention that for a few Sundays I played at a chapel. 
I was not paid for these chapel services, but gave 
them in return for being allowed to practise on the 
organ there, which was a very good one. The reason 
was that the Dean and Chapter were so unkind as to 
refuse me access to the Cathedral organ. This was 
rather hard, as I had been a boy in the choir for eight 
years, and my father had paid Hopkins a fairly 
good fee to take me as an articled pupil. However, 
they very soon gave the required permission. My 



A CRITICAL ORGAN-BLOWER 33 

father was remonstrated with by a clergyman, for, as 
he said, " letting your son play in a chapel for the sake 
of filthy lucre " ! Of course my father had a good 
answer to this, and the clergyman transferred his protest, 
in another form, to the Dean and Chapter, with the 
result that the required permission was granted. Yet 
the attempt to exclude me was an unworthy act on the 
part of the Cathedral authorities, as everyone will 
admit. 

My organ lessons were not very regular, but I 
practised almost daily, and curiously enough my 
greatest critic was the old blind blower, Fred, whom I 
have mentioned as having allowed me to toll the bell 
for the funeral of the great Duke of Wellington. 
Intensely musical, he played the violin uncommonly 
well, and along with a friend the blind organist of 
a neighbouring church was employed at all the 
dances in the vicinity. It was a local saying that 
" people liked to have blind men to play at the dances, 
because they would not know too much of what was 
going on " ! 

Blind Fred had a great love for Church music, and 
would constantly come round from the bellows-side 
to the keyboard side of the organ to correct me for a 
wrong note or something that I had not noticed myself. 
He could do this, because I was only allowed to play 
softly, and the organ not being pneumatic it did not 
require a great amount of wind. 

I remember his delight when for the first time we 
had some of the more modern chants introduced, 
notably one by Turle, which is well known and usually 
sung to the iO4th Psalm. There is a very striking 
chord in the second part. Old blind Fred would 
whistle this chant to me, accenting this chord with all 
his power ! He was always rather hard upon my 
extempore playing (which I admit was not very good), 

D 



34 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

but once I tripped him up by taking a phrase from 
one of Mendelssohn's Lieder, using it as a subject. 
This brought him round to me, with the exclamation, 
" Ah, Master Fred, that is something like " ! I thanked 
him, but was artful enough not to tell him whose it was. 
Very early in my articles I took the whole of the 
Cathedral services on week-days, but encountered one 
rather awkward experience while playing my first 
Sunday service. I need hardly say that at this date my 
anthem-repertory was not very large ; I had, however, 
practised Elvey's " Unto Thee have I cried," which 
contained a well-known alto solo. Now the alto soloist 
seemed to turn rather restive at being " accompanied 
by a boy," as he somewhat disparagingly said, and at 
the last moment declared he could not sing the solo. 
However, the Precentor told him that he would 
have to sing it, so the service commenced. We got 
through the first chorus, and then came the solo. I 
played the introductory symphony, and put down the 
chord for the entry of the soloist, but there was no 
response ! The alto absolutely refused to sing, on the 
plea that he could not. I suppose I ought to have 
brought the movement to a close and gone on to the 
next chorus, but I was on my mettle and impulsively 
decided to play the part as an instrumental interlude, 
being very much encouraged by a gentleman who was 
a constant attendant in the organ-loft, and who happened 
to be present. Instinctively divining my intention, 
he was delighted with the episode, saying, over and 
over again, " Go it, youngster ! " emphasising his 
remarks by vigorously polishing his glass-eye on a silk 
handkerchief. It was a diversion of his when excited 
to extract his artificial eye and give it a high degree of 
polish in this manner. I proceeded with the solo, and 
added to it what later years have convinced me was a 
piece of impudence. The soloist was wont to close 



RECOLLECTIONS OF DICKENS 35 

this number with a " shake," which is very unusual in 
Cathedral music, so I thought I would reproduce it, 
and accordingly finished up with a long shake that 
nearly vibrated my friend's glass-eye out of his hand ! 
There were some heated moments after the service, in 
which my father, the Precentor, the alto, and the Dean 
and Canon took part, but nothing was said to me, and 
the thing passed over. 

Afterwards I became very friendly with the alto, and 
quite forgave him. I do not think he would mind my 
telling the story even if he were alive. He was the 
brother of the well-known tenor, Wilbye Cooper. At 
one time he thought his voice was changing into a tenor, 
and took to singing tenor songs. It was a witty 
remark of Armes pere (father of Dr. Armes), when one 
day referring to the brothers, that one was Wilbye 
Cooper, and the other "Would be" Cooper. 

The five happy years of my articles fled all too 
quickly. All the time was not spent at the Cathedral, 
my duties as assistant being varied by some small 
appointments that I held at local churches, the first 
of these being the country church of Shorne. 
Situate about five miles from Rochester, there was no 
railway or any method of getting there except by 
walking, and this I did, wet or fine. My walk out to 
the little isolated village was quite an interesting one. 
I was a lover of Dickens' books, and Dickens lived at 
Gad's Hill House, which I passed on my journey. As 
I left Rochester I passed the " Bull Inn " the scene 
of the Ball and Mr. Jingle's exploits in " Pickwick " 
its sign bearing as an advertisement the recom- 
mendation of Mr. Jingle, " Good house nice beds." 
A mile or two along the high road one came to Gad's 
Hill, the scene of Sir John Falstaff's proceedings, 
and referred to in Shakespeare as a place where " there 
are pilgrims going to Canterbury." 



36 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

At the top of the hill was the wayside Inn, the 
" Sir John Falstaff" ; on the opposite side of the road 
Gad's Hill Place, the residence of Charles Dickens, 
an interesting-looking red-brick building,* with a 
neat lawn, from which a tunnel was made under the 
high road to give access to a well-wooded garden on 
the other side. Fine cedars made a good show, and I 
believe the novelist did a good deal of writing in this 
secluded spot. I very often saw Dickens on my way 
in the morning, but more often as I walked home. He 
used to walk in the middle of the road, generally 
attended by a big dog. How little he thought, as we 
passed on the quiet country road, that in after years he 
would repose in the Abbey,! while the sound of the 
pealing organ 

" To the full-voiced choir below " 

was to be actuated by the fingers of the boy who, 
I am afraid, was wont unduly to stare at him with 
feelings of admiration and curiosity. 

A little speech made by the great novelist, that I 
have not seen quoted, has lingered in my mind. He 
gave a reading at Chatham in aid of the Mechanics' 
Institute, which included the Trial from " Pickwick," 
and "A Christmas Carol. 1 ' In response to thanks 
conveyed to him after the reading, he said : " Ladies 
and Gentlemen, I wish you all the Compliments of the 
Season, if Compliments are ever out of Season." 

A little beyond Gad's Hill my journey took me off 
the high road through some fields into a pretty country 
lane a rare spot for white violets in the spring 

* Dickens bought Gad's Hill Place in 1856, and resided there till his 
death, which took place in 1870. In writing to a friend, he described it as 
his " little Kentish freehold. ... a grave, red-brick house, which," he 
went on, " I have added to and stuck bits upon in all manner of ways." 

It is said that Charles Dickens was to have been buried in Rochester 
Cathedral, but that, in deference to a wish expressed by Queen Victoria, 
the great novelist was laid in Westminster Abbey. 



EARLY APPOINTMENT 37 

and so I reached the little valley. The church was a 
good specimen of various periods of architecture Saxon, 
Norman, and of the Transition period and contained 
a fine stone recumbent figure of a knight in armour. 
My days spent there are often in my mind the 
Sunday School, which was held in one of the aisles 
partitioned off from the church ; the little organ in the 
gallery ; the tuneful peal of bells rung by the villagers ; 
and my return journey, often laden with flowers given 
to me by the country-folk. 

Sometimes my old fellow chorister, Joseph Maas, 
would walk out to meet me, when we would linger 
by a pool and watch the shoals of roach and wish 
we had a rod and line. Those were happy Sundays ; 
I have not since spent many so free from the cares 
of office ! 

The little organ (originally a barrel organ, presented 
by a resident over a hundred years ago) was in the 
West gallery, and there the choir sat with me. The 
old Clerk was evidently an advanced Prayer Book 
reformer, for he always insisted upon saying " Amen " 
at the end of the Te Deum, which was generally 
read. I took my luncheon with me, eating it in 
the vestry between the morning and evening services. 
A somewhat serious accident occurred on one of these 
occasions, which might have changed my career. In 
cutting an apple the knife slipped, dividing the flesh 
between the thumb and first finger of my left hand ! 
It bled profusely, and I had to be driven into Rochester 
and have it attended to. Fortunately no ill effects 
ensued, but I bear the mark to this day ; in fact it 
has a little interfered with the stretch of my left hand. 

Shorne was the home of many of the best cricketers 
of Kent, and I saw a good many matches between 
prominent clubs played in the charming grounds 
of Cobham Hall, the residence of Lord Darnley. 



38 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

I believe a number of the Shorne people were 
employed on the property, which was quite near. 
The fine old Hall is very picturesque, and I have lately 
learned a fact of some interest about it, which is, I 
think, little known. In connection with the " Gibbons 
Festival" in Westminster Abbey (see page 212), I 
looked into the facts of Gibbons' attendance at Canter- 
bury Cathedral for the wedding of Charles I., and 
came across a contemporary account which showed that 
Charles and his Queen went to Cobham Hall through 
Rochester for their honeymoon, afterwards going via 
Gravesend to London. I do not think this was known 
to the present occupants of the Hall until I mentioned 
it to Lady Darnley. The Brook family were the 
Lords of Cobham in the time of Charles I., the 
magnificent series of brasses on their graves in 
Cobham Church being well known to antiquaries. 

After about a year at Shorne I was appointed to the 
organistship of Strood Church, near Rochester. The 
Vicar, the Rev. J. W. Sheringham, was very musical, 
while the Church had what was of some consequence 
to me, a modern organ. Mr. Sheringham later in life 
became Canon and Archdeacon of Gloucester, and was 
a constant visitor to me in the Cloisters. 

When the Volunteer movement arose, I joined the 
band of the gth Kent Volunteers being then about 
fifteen or sixteen years old playing the second cornet. 
As I was a pretty good musician, it was no trouble to 
me to play the parts on my instrument, and I rather 
astonished the bandmaster by the way I read my part. 
He did not know that I knew more about music than 
anybody else in the band. The man who played 
second cornet with me was a young house-painter, who 
was very keen, but as he knew nothing about music, 
was often dropped upon by the bandmaster ; in fact, if 
there was a mistake in the cornet part he was generally, 



" TA TA INSTEAD OF UM TA ' 39 

and often rightly, credited with it. One day, however, 
he was treated rather badly for a mistake of mine. The 
part for the cornets was pretty often a dull succession 
of single notes, marking the step of the corps on the 
march, but varied now and then by a bar or two of 
syncopation, i.e., notes which came after the beat. 1 
came in badly with a note on the beat instead of after 
it, the effect of which was to release a torrent of abuse 
from our irascible bandmaster upon the poor house- 
painter. " Now, Corporal," said the unlucky one, " it 
wasn't me this time, it was Bridge. He played Ta ta 
instead of Urn ta." This was his ingenious method of 
explaining the syncopation, " Um " being a sort of grunt 
that he gave to keep himself right. We all roared, 
even the surly bandmaster, at this new and certainly 
convenient technical expression and I admitted for 
once that I was wrong ! 

Our corps had the honour of attending the great 
Volunteer Review in Hyde Park, held by Queen 
Victoria in June, 1860, and marching past Her Majesty 
in brigade. Our band, however, was not allowed to play, 
which annoyed us very much ; but we experienced a 
greater annoyance, as the following will show. 

The band of the gth Kent was not very large, 
and comprised a varied set of players all, with one 
or two exceptions, being mere beginners. We were 
taught by a corporal of the Royal Marine Band, 
and soon managed to get through three marches, 
" Rory O'More," " Ninety-five," and " The Young 
Recruit." Our corporal-bandmaster carried a large 
brass instrument which played the melody an octave 
below the cornets. With this " chromatic bullock " 
as I have heard some one call such an instrument 
and the assistance of our drummer, who laid it on 
pretty thick, it did not much matter what the other 
instruments played ! We were very anxious to march 



40 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

at the head of the corps, and did so with fair success. 
But we suffered a serious catastrophe at the 
rehearsal for a certain review and march past. The 
corps was paraded on the Esplanade, near the old 
castle, to practise a march past. The band took its 
station, in readiness to play one of the marches. 
But the bandmaster did not turn up ! We got 
very nervous as the corps advanced from the end of 
the parade-ground and came on in dead silence, for 
none of us dared start to play. As the leading 
companies passed us the Captain (Savage, by name 
and it suited him well on that occasion !) shouted out, 

" Can't that band play a tune ? " All eyes 

instantly centred on us, instead of on the march-past. 
The assembled citizens chaffed us unmercifully, and 
we felt indescribably foolish. The corps had to go 
some distance before wheeling about, but ere they 
could do this, " with one consent " we had bolted, 
and hidden ourselves in the crowd. It was a very 
humiliating day for us. Later on, when we found the 
bandmaster, we let him know what we thought of him. 

Although our band was not very good, I nevertheless 
got some useful experience in playing the cornet, 
always looking back with pleasure to my days as 
a Volunteer. 

One of the most notable things I remember at this 
time in my musical experience was being allowed to 
sit with the organist, Dr. Hopkins, at Exeter Hall, 
during a performance of "Elijah" in which 
Madame Goldschmidt (Jenny Lind) sang, and Mr. 
Otto Goldschmidt, her husband (in after years one 
of my dearest friends), conducted. I can still recall 
the fire and expression which the great singer put 
into the music. 

Another musical experience is one for which I am 
always thankful. Learning that Wesley was opening 



UNDER GOSS, OF ST. PAUL'S 41 

an organ in London at the great Agricultural Hall, and 
never having heard him play, I determined not to miss 
the opportunity of doing so. I attended the recital, when 
he played his Andante in G and an extempore Fugue 
on a very fine subject. I remember how much annoyed 
I was by the way the people would talk as in these 
days through the quieter parts of the Andante. This 
was the only time I had the opportunity of hearing 
Wesley. 

Except for the concerts I have already referred to, 
which were mostly of vocal music, we at Rochester in 
the 'fifties had little opportunity of becoming acquainted 
with music outside the Church, and there were then 
no Local Examinations in music such as are now 
held all over the Empire. I had a great leaning to 
composition, writing some songs and part-songs, and a 
little Church music ; but there were no scholarships to 
be had (except at the Royal Academy, which necessitated 
residence in London), so I moved pretty much in 
one groove up to the time when my articles with 
John Hopkins expired. Then, fortunately, I knew my 
ignorance, and determined to place myself for com- 
position under Goss, of St. Paul's. Most of my 
work was sent by post, but I also went to him in 
London for some lessons, for three or four years having 
the benefit of his valuable help. He was a most pains- 
taking teacher, and the exercises I did with him are now 
among my most cherished possessions. 



CHAPTER IV. 

Canvassing the Parish -- Appointment at Windsor The 
Hawtreys Private Theatricals Mrs. Oliphant Early Choral 
Works Life-Guardsmen at a " Churching " " Reform " 
Election at Windsor A Political Parrot Musical Degree 
Ouseley and The " Stretto Maestrale " Arthur Sullivan at 
Windsor Cathedral Appointment. 

AT the age of twenty I determined to leave home, 
and applied for several organistships, having a peculiar 
experience as a candidate for a London church. After 
a searching trial, I was one of four selected applicants, 
and was then informed that the appointment was 
in the hands of the Vestry, and it would be advisable 
for me to canvass the parish in order to get votes. One 
of the churchwardens was very much in my favour, and 
furnished me with the names of people on whom to call. 
I spent a whole day in waiting on people of all sorts and 
conditions public-house keepers, ironmongers, bakers, 
and other tradesmen. My reception was not altogether 
cordial in many quarters in fact, the public-house 
keepers looked upon me as a bit of a nuisance, and 
thought I was a musician for once in the wrong " bar." 
I did not obtain the appointment, because my opponent, 
I was informed, was a Freemason, and secured the 
Freemasons' votes. It was a curious ordeal, and one 
which I do not think many living organists have 
sustained. 

Another post I tried for was the Parish Church of 
Faversham, near Canterbury. Curiously enough, James 
Turle, the organist of Westminster Abbey, was one of 
the judges to select the best man, the other umpire 
being Mr. Jones, the organist of Canterbury Cathedral. 



THE HAWTREYS 43 

I was not placed first, to the great regret of the Rector, 
who rather wanted me. But it brought me a post at 
Windsor, as the Rector wrote off to the Rev. Henry 
Hawtrey, whom he knew, to recommend me for the 
vacancy there. This was the first time I had met 
Turle, and after succeeding him at the Abbey I often 
referred to his having rejected me at Faversham. He 
declared " It was Jones who preferred the other man,' 1 
and as Jones was in his own country he let him have 
his way ! Before the Windsor people wrote to me I 
was sent for to London to see the celebrated Rev. 
Frederick D. Maurice, who offered me the post of 
organist at his church St. Peter's, Vere Street. But I 
explained I must wait to hear from Windsor, and did 
so, with the result that Mr. Hawtrey's offer was 
accepted. I did not know what a distinguished man 
Maurice was, but was struck with his charm of manner. 
The Rev. Henry Hawtrey was the Vicar of Holy 
Trinity, Windsor, but the moving spirit of the 
choir was his brother, the Rev. Stephen Hawtrey, 
mathematical master at Eton College. My appoint- 
ment was not a very remunerative one, but it afforded me 
opportunities in many directions which were welcome. 
Thus I was able to attend the services at 
St. George's, Windsor, where Dr. Elvey had brought 
the music to a high state of efficiency far better at that 
time, I am sure, than could be found at St. Paul's 
or Westminster, or, I believe, in any other 
Cathedral. Dr. Elvey was kind to me, letting me 
go up into the organ-loft frequently. Thus was I able 
to maintain my knowledge of the Cathedral Service, 
which indeed I should have missed greatly, having been 
accustomed to attend at daily service since I was six 
years of age. The Rev. Stephen Hawtrey was a 
musical enthusiast, and in his school at St. Mark's, 
which he founded for boys at Windsor, he had music 



44 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

very generally taught. It was from this school that the 
choir of my church was formed. I worked hard with 
the boys, having very large classes, and made them 
read music well. We had at the church a full 
Cathedral service, and sang a large number of the 
best Cathedral anthems. At the school we gave some 
important concerts, where for the first time in my life I 
had the opportunity of conducting an orchestra. We 
did " Elijah " and the " Hymn of Praise " more than 
once ; in connection with " Elijah " it may be 
interesting to note that the part of the Prophet at one 
of the performances which I conducted was sung by no 
less a person than Hubert Parry, then at Eton. Our 
bass failed us at the last moment, and Hubert Parry 
kindly undertook to sing the part. The thing I 
remember most about the performance was the extra- 
ordinary speed at which he sang " Is not His word like 
a fire." Fortunately we had a good band, and although 
the conductor was, naturally, inexperienced, the players 
pulled him through very well. Curiously enough, two 
of the leaders of this orchestra (then members of the 
Queen's Private Band) I found many years afterwards 
playing the leading parts in the orchestra of the 
Royal Choral Society, to which I had succeeded as 
conductor. During my term at Windsor I also had the 
pleasure of preparing my choir for the performance in 
the Lower School of Parry's Exercise for his Mus. Bac. 
degree at Oxford, which he took while a boy at Eton. 
Through the Rev. Stephen Hawtrey's influence 
I was able to teach music a great deal at Eton 
College, giving private lessons to the boys and 
teaching class-singing in the Lower School. I also 
had large classes at the house of the Rev. John 
Hawtrey, and assisted in the production of many of the 
musical and other plays in which he and some of his 
sons and friends so frequently acted. In connection 



PRIVATE THEATRICALS 45 

with this I may claim to have helped to introduce 
Mr. Charles Hawtrey to the stage, for I taught him a 
song which he sang as Distaffina in " Bombastes 
Furioso." In the same play, when essaying the title- 
role, I once brought down the house with an unrehearsed 
effect in the scene where Bombastes takes off his boots 
and hangs them on a tree, the while he declaims : 
" Who dares this pair of boots displace 
Must meet Bombastes face to face." 

In my ardour to launch my challenge at " all the 
human race," I hauled off a stocking with one of my 
long boots ; the audience were quick to notice my 
dilemma, and embarrassingly prompt in letting me see 
that they had done so. (This was at Manchester.) 

Perhaps the most valuable friendship that I formed 
at Windsor was that of the distinguished authoress, 
Mrs. Oliphant. I was admitted to her family circle, 
and taught her boys music ; and here, again, I helped 
in private theatricals, on one occasion appearing as 
Stingo, the Landlord in " She stoops to Conquer." 

Theatricals had a great vogue at about this period, 
Mrs. Oliphant being particularly fond of them. I 
assisted in a good many of such entertainments, e.g., 
in " Twelfth Night," when Frank Tarver, of Eton 
College, took the part of Malvolio, giving a perfect and 
very diverting representation of this character. We 
also did an opera of Offenbach's, " Barbe Bleue," some 
of the songs in which were charmingly interpreted by 
an officer of the Guards, whose name I do not 
remember ; while at Eton, in the Mathematical School, 
a delightful performance of Moliere's " Le Bourgeois 
Gentilhomme " was given by members of the College, 
to whom I lent assistance in preparing the music. 

During my Windsor days the friendship of 
Mrs. Oliphant was of great benefit to me. Through 
her kindness I spent many happy evenings which 



46 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

otherwise would have been somewhat dreary. She 
encouraged me to compose, giving me such poems 
as Tennyson's " In Memoriam," with passages marked, 
which I have since set. She also gave me the life of 
" St. Francis of Assisi," calling my attention to " The 
Song of St. Francis," a translation of which appears in 
the book. Some twelve years later I set it to music, 
this being the first work I ever had performed at one 
of the great Festivals. There were others in her circle 
to whom I owe a deep debt for much kindness and 
help. Alas ! most of these have passed beyond the 
veil. This literary house was a blessing indeed, 
fostering in me the love of good literature and 
imbuing me with a desire to achieve some measure of 
success in my profession. My kind friend lived to hear 
of my knighthood, sending me a word of congratulation 
from her sick room. 

Trinity Church was attended by the Life Guards 
and other regiments stationed at Windsor, and a fine 
show they made, filling the galleries round which were 
inscribed the names of all the Guards killed in action 
in the Crimean War, from the drummer-boy to the 
Colonel. 

In connection with this church I cannot refrain from 
recording a surprising incident of which I was a 
witness. On Sunday afternoons there were generally 
a number of babies from the barracks to be christened. 
Before the ceremony of christening the mothers were 
usually " Churched." On one occasion, when the 
women went up the chancel steps to the altar rails, to 
my astonishment a huge Life-Guardsman also went 
up, and, I suppose, was " Churched " ! His companions, 
who were to be godfathers, were in a state of sup- 
pressed hilarity hardly consistent with the occasion. 

My first experience of politics took place at Windsor. 
I was one of the crowd at the railway station awaiting 



"VOTE FOR ROGER" 47 

the arrival of Lord John Russell and Mr. Gladstone 
on their way to the Castle to resign after the defeat of 
the Government on the question of the Reform Bill in 
1866, and remember thinking what a little man was 
Lord John, and what a striking face was Mr. Gladstone's. 
Soon after there was a general election, the town of 
Windsor being in a rare ferment. The old Members, 
Messrs. Vansittart and Vyse, were opposed by Mr. Henry 
Labouchere and Sir Henry Hoare. To the consterna- 
tion of the Conservatives the two old Members were 
defeated and the new candidates elected. There was 
a petition against the election, and amongst others I 
was subpoenaed ! I never knew on what grounds, but 
it was not for bribery or corruption. I think it was a 
question of the validity of my vote, which was a lodger's 
qualification, my rooms being given to me as part of 
my salary as organist. However, I was not called 
upon to appear, as the petition was successful and the 
Members were unseated. I was much gratified to 
receive ^3 as compensation for my time spent at the 
Court of Inquiry. 

The old Members did not regain their seats, and the 
new election was fought by Mr. Roger Eykyn and 
another. Mr. Eykyn was a very prominent member 
of the Radical party at Windsor, where his name was 
well known. A funny incident came under my notice 
with regard to this election. My friend Keeton (now 
organist of Peterborough Cathedral), then a pupil of Dr. 
Elvey, lodged with an old gentleman who was a violent 
Tory, and who possessed a clever and amusing parrot 
which was a great talker. The bird's cage stood 
in the window, and I suppose he had heard "Vote 
for Roger" shouted at all times by no end of 
voices. To the consternation and annoyance of the 
old gentleman one morning the bird yelled, " Vote for 
Roger," " Vote for Roger." It is impossible to describe 



48 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

the fury of the owner, who had always looked upon the 
bird as a good Tory. He would, I believe, have wrung 
its neck had it not seen the error of its ways. It was 
a clever bird. 

It was at Windsor that I made the acquaint- 
ance of Dr. (afterwards Sir John) Stainer. He and 
Mrs. Stainer (they were then living at Oxford) 
knew the Hawtreys well, and once came into the 
church to hear me play. This was the beginning of 
a lifelong friendship between us, a friendship which 
brought about the happy union of one of his sons with 
my daughter. 

Professor Donkin and his sons were also constantly 
at the Hawtreys, and I had the great privilege of their 
friendship and musical knowledge. 

My life was a very busy one, as I had to do private 
teaching as well as all my church and college work, 
but I found time to study. Passing the examination 
as a Fellow of the College of Organists in 1867, I 
am now the senior member of that institution. I 
was most anxious to get to Oxford, and if possible 
become organist of one of the colleges. There were 
not many such opportunities, but I very nearly succeeded 
in getting Queen's College, being returned, after com- 
petition, as one of two candidates whose names were 
submitted to the Fellows. Unfortunately, and to my 
intense disappointment, they gave it to the other man, so 
my hopes of a residential Oxford life were shattered. I 
determined, therefore, to take my degree in music, 
which could then be done by passing two examinations 
and writing an Exercise residence not being required. 

My Exercise was accepted, and in due time I presented 
myself at the final examination, the examiners being 
Sir Frederick Ouseley, Dr. Stainer (then organist of 
Magdalen), and Dr. Corfe, of Christ Church. An 
incident in the viva voce examination is possibly worthy 




Miss MARIA HACKETT (1783-1874), (THE " CHORISTERS' FRIEND "). 



THE "STRETTO MAESTRALE " 49 

of record. I have already mentioned my friend Keeton, 
a pupil of Dr. Elvey. We were both desirous of 
taking our degree, and used to meet in the evening, 
either at his rooms or at mine, to work up the different 
branches counterpoint, fugue, &c. In the course of 
our studies, in an old Oxford examination paper we 
came across the term " Stretto maestrale," which we 
had never heard of before. Keeton undertook to ask 
Dr. Elvey the meaning of it, but the old Doctor confessed 
that it was new to him, so we got no further, except that 
it made an impression on us. In the viva voce examina- 
tion Sir Frederick asked me to explain the constituent 
parts of a fugue. I did this, mentioning of course the 
" Stretto." Then he said to me, " Can you name a 
term that is sometimes applied to a ' Stretto ' when it 
is in strict canon ? " In a moment my mind went back 
to the " Stretto maestrale," and I wondered if I should 
risk it or not. Before I replied, Ouseley added, " It is an 
Italian term." " Oh," I replied, " the ' Stretto maestrale,' 
of course," as if it were a very old friend. But I was 
nearly floored by the next question, " Can you give me 
any example of the use of this ' Stretto ' ? " As I had not 
known what the particular " Stretto " was till that 
moment, I was naturally rather puzzled, till Sir Frederick 
kindly helped me by saying, " Handel uses it." I thought 
of the "Amen Chorus" in "Messiah," and knowing 
that it abounded in all kinds of masterly imitations, I 
ventured to give it as an example. "Quite right; 
very good," said Sir Frederick. Seeing my friend 
Keeton, I of course told him all about it. He was going 
up to Oxford at the next examination, and got a good 
series of examples of " Stretto maestrale " ready for 
the Professor. But alas ! to his great disappointment 
the question was not asked. I heard afterwards that 
Sir Frederick told a friend with whom he was staying at 
Oxford that he was somewhat surprised that I was able 
E 



50 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

to answer that question, as he did not remember having 
had it answered before, the term appearing only in a 
very rare book. I told Sir Frederick years afterwards 
what a little I knew about it at the time ! I passed 
the examination, my Exercise being performed in the 
Sheldonian Theatre, the Rev. Stephen Hawtrey sending 
up a good part of our choir to sing in it. Some weeks 
afterwards we performed it at St. Mark's School, the 
tenor solo being taken by Arthur D. Coleridge, in after 
years my very dear friend, and the bass by the Rev. 
W. H. Bliss, then Minor Canon at Windsor. This was 
in 1868, and I made the acquaintance of Arthur Sullivan 
about this time. He was staying near Windsor, and 
attended one of the concerts given at St. Mark's, 
at which a setting of mine of some words from 
Tennyson's "In Memoriam" ("The time draws near 
the Birth of Christ ") was sung. Sullivan was very 
kind and complimentary, at the same time pointing 
out an awkward passage of modulation, which, he said, 
" will always give you trouble," and so it has to 
this day. 

My mind was set upon obtaining a Cathedral appoint- 
ment. This had always been my great ambition, and I 
made application for two or three such posts, generally 
coming within the last few for selection. I first met 
Sir Frederick Ouseley at one of these competitions. He 
was the judge at Llandaff Cathedral trial, and although 
I did not get the appointment, he wrote me a very 
nice letter, which later was useful as a testimonial. 
This was rather early in my Windsor life, and before 
taking my degree. At last I was fortunate enough to 
be appointed organist of Manchester Cathedral, being 
then just twenty- four years of age. My friends at 
Windsor gave me many valuable presents, and I left 
them with real sorrow, spending the last evening at 
Mrs. Oliphant's hospitable house. 



CHAPTER V. 

A Stroke of Fortune Life at Manchester Professorial Work 
Music in the Cathedral Inadequate Choir Mass Weddings 
New Organ A tremendous choral bass " The little ' beggars ' in 
front " Prescient Remark concerning " Gerontius " Mus. Doc. 
Degree Halle at Manchester Halle and Dreams An 
Involuntary Immersion Refused admission to Westminster 
Abbey Retirement of Turle The Vacancy and Dean Stanley 
" Choosing an Organist more difficult than choosing a wife " 
Organist of Westminster Abbey. 

A BIT of good fortune attended my candidature for 
Manchester. I had heard that there would probably 
be a vacancy at Leeds Parish Church, and believed 
that circumstances favoured my being appointed. It 
would have been an honour to secure a post that 
S. S. Wesley had filled with so much distinction for 
some years before he proceeded to Winchester. I for- 
warded my testimonials, and received an invitation 
from the Vicar to come and stay at Leeds. At the last 
moment, however, the organist did not resign ; but the 
Vicar pressed me not to forego my visit. Meanwhile I 
had got news concerning Manchester, and hastened to 
apply there, explaining that all my testimonials were at 
Leeds, where I was proceeding the following day. To 
my surprise the next morning brought a letter from 
Manchester, intimating that I must forward my testi- 
monials without delay, as the Chapter was holding 
a meeting forthwith in order to select candidates. 
Twenty-four hours later, with as many documents as 
it was possible to secure, I was en route for Manchester. 
Arrived there, and tendering my ticket, I found my way 
barred by the collector, who, to my astonishment and 
no little indignation, told me I must pay again, as I had 



52 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

come by the wrong line ! It seemed that there was no 
interchange of traffic over the competing lines running 
from Leeds, and that I had bought my ticket for one 
and travelled by another. There was no alternative 
but to pay, whereat I grumbled eloquently, while the 
collector administered consolation by pointing out that 
I had arrived an hour sooner than I should have 
done travelling by the right train. And here comes 
my bit of good fortune. I went straight to the 
Cathedral, where a service was going on. A verger 
conducted me to a vestry. Here I deposited my papers 
with an official, and explained who I was. Glancing 
through them, he casually remarked, " Well, it 's lucky 
you have come just now ; the Chapter is holding a 
meeting after the service to select candidates." I emerged 
from my encounter with this gentleman conscious of 
rather mixed feelings, and with an injunction laid 
upon me to attend again in the afternoon, when I 
learned with great satisfaction that my candidature was 
approved, and was asked if I would be prepared to 
play the next day or would prefer to wait for my 
turn. Of course I elected to play the next day. Thus 
my success at Manchester turned largely upon the 
accidental circumstance of my having travelled upon 
the wrong line, thereby arriving an hour sooner than 
otherwise I should have done, which undoubtedly 
placed in my hands an opportunity that developed 
favourably for me. It is curious to think that a 
momentuous step in my career was taken when I 
boarded the wrong train. 

Residence at Manchester was certainly not quite 
the kind of Cathedral life I had anticipated, but it was 
a fortunate move for me. The difference between the 
quiet of a Cathedral city like Rochester, or even 
Windsor, and busy Manchester, was immense. I was 
welcomed by the musical people, and received much 



"EH! BUT HE'S ONLY A LAD" 53 

kindness and hospitality generally. The Cathedral 
services were at a very low ebb, the choir being 
extremely small in numbers and the organ not first- 
class. An incident of my early days in Manchester 
I must not forget to mention in connection with the 
organ. The instrument stood on the North side of the 
Choir, and after the services many of the congregation 
would walk up from the Nave to the Choir while 
I was playing the voluntary, and peer through the 
screen to see the "new mon." I was a little gratified 
at first, till one day an old lady popped her head 
round the screen to look at me. Then she turned 
to her friend and said in an audible voice, which 
even reached me through the Bach Fugue with 
which I was endeavouring to impress her : " Eh ! but 
he 's only a lad." 

A year after my appointment, Goss allowed me to 
see a letter which he had received from a well-known 
musical amateur in Manchester, who was a great 
friend of his, and to whom I had written when I was 
a candidate. I think I may be pardoned for quoting 
the following extract : 

" Our recommendation of young Bridge has been 
a distinguished success, and / have been thanked 
by the authorities over and over again for sending 
your recommendation to them. He has done us 
more than credit." 

Although, as I have said, the Cathedral services had 
reached a rather low ebb, there was a wholesome zeal 
for Cathedral music among Churchmen at Manchester. 
The conservation of this fine tradition rested mainly, I 
think, with a few enthusiastic amateurs, prominent 
among whom was Benjamin St. John Baptist Joule. 
This gentleman (a brother of James Prescott Joule, the 



54 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

distinguished physicist)* was a devoted lover of 
Cathedral music, and moreover a very competent 
organist. 

Goss knew him well. He once wrote to me in his 
humorous way hoping that I had made the acquaintance 
of his friend " Benjamin St. Matthew St. Mark St. Luke 
St. Joule." I could not resist telling Joule of this, 
and it amused him greatly. Joule and a few friends 
maintained a full Cathedral service at one of the 
important churches (St. Peter's) at Manchester. The 
choir, however, had only women's voices for soprani 
instead of boys. The church became justly famed for 
its organ recitals, and I heard Sir R. Stewart, Best, 
E. J. Hopkins, Henry Smart, Walter Parratt, and 
others, perform there. Joule did good work in his day 
for the cause of Cathedral music, and deserves to be 
remembered with gratitude at Manchester. 

It was not long before I obtained a great deal of 
work, not only in teaching, but by conducting local 
choral societies. I worked very hard at this time, for 
most of these societies were outside Manchester, and 
necessitated railway journeys home late at night. 
But what was much more valuable to me was the 
chance really for the first time in my life of hearing 
the best orchestral music. Halle's Concerts were then 
in full swing, and I attended them regularly. They 
were a wonderful institution in those days, and 
made Manchester superior to London in affording 
opportunities for frequently hearing great orchestral 
works well rendered. 

After a year or two I became a member of the 
teaching body of Owens College, having been 

* His discovery of the mechanical equivalent of heat established 
" Joule's Law." A tablet commemorating the eminent physicist and his 
scientific labours was subscribed for and placed in Westminster Abbey, 
near the organ, in company with the memorials of Darwin, Lister, and 
other scientific men. 



DIFFICULTIES WITH THE CHOIR 55 

requested to take evening classes in Harmony. This 
was the beginning of the present Faculty of Music 
in Manchester University. It was an admirable 
experience, and a great preparation for the work I 
have since done at the Royal College of Music and 
elsewhere. 

With regard to the Cathedral at Manchester, it was 
very difficult at first to obtain a satisfactory service. 
The week-day choir comprised only four Lay- Vicars and 
about sixteen boys. On Sundays the number of the 
Lay- Vicars was slightly augmented. I tried to get a 
fuller choir, and succeeded for a time in adding a few 
voices, but these were again dispersed. It appeared 
that by an Act of Parliament, when the Manchester 
Diocese was founded and the old Collegiate Church 
became a Cathedral, some arrangement was made for 
the benefit of various incumbents of the old parish, 
so that they might get a share of the superfluous 
revenues of the Dean and Chapter. This made them 
very jealous of their rights, and very much opposed 
to much expenditure on the choir and Cathedral. I 
am glad to know that all this was altered under the 
energetic rule of Bishop Welldon, the late Dean ; but 
during the six years I was organist, it was a great 
trouble to me. Then, again, the training of the boys 
was in the hands of the Precentor (instead of the 
organist, as of course it should have been), and the 
Precentor did not do it himself, but engaged a very 
able double-bass player to do the work ! All these 
difficulties were very trying, yet I made the best 
of them, as always of similar troubles in my career, 
and think I may claim that upon leaving the Cathedral 
of Manchester its services were at a good level, 
considering the materials at my command. One of 
my best friends was Mr. (afterwards Sir William) 
Houldsworth. He was one of the Churchwardens 



56 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

(the Cathedral on its parochial side having three such 
officials), and was keenly interested in the music, being 
himself a very fair amateur organist. 

The Choir of the " old Church " as Manchester 
folk still delight to call the Cathedral is a 
charming specimen of Pointed Architecture. The 
stall-work, with its richly-carved canopies a beautiful 
feature is the level cornice surmounting these is 
some of the most elaborate extant, as will be seen 
from the illustration which I am able to reproduce 
from an engraving in Edward Baines' " History of the 
County Palatine and Duchy of Lancaster." In the 
delicate decorative panelling of the roof are still to be 
seen some remains of a lost art in enamel-work, known 
as "wax paint." 

Years before I went to Manchester, restorers had 
been at their nefarious work. They pulled down the 
old 15th-century rood screen which divided the Choir 
from the Nave, and with it removed the little one- 
manual Father Smith organ a gem in artistic 
conception which had stood upon the screen. They 
would no doubt have ruthlessly sacrificed also the return 
stalls, and so made a clean vista from the East to the 
West end of the Church. But the Dean and Canons 
cherished these stalls, and would not relinquish them. 
For many years there was an ugly gap where the screen 
and little Choir organ should have stood, the 
beautiful old screen being hidden away in various side 
chapels. A new organ was erected in the North 
Aisle of the Choir, at the East end of the stalls. 
The Sunday services were held in the Nave.* 
The singers being so far from the organist, it was 
manifestly difficult for any sort of direction to be 
established, and the general effect was of course 

* The Nave, built in 1465-68 by Warden Langley, is wider than that of 
any other Cathedral in England, measuring i04-ft. across its five aisles. 



MASS WEDDINGS 57 

bad. No wonder the organist at times had cause for 
complaint, for it would frequently happen that while 
morning service was being conducted in the Nave, a 
number of people were actually being married in the 
Choir. The Cathedral seemed to be a popular resort 
for this form of contract. I suppose that people who 
were domiciled in the old parish, and desired to be 
married in the " old Church," could do so. At any 
rate, on certain Sundays in the year the number of 
weddings was so great that although dozens of couples 
were married simultaneously, i.e., with one reading of 
the service, it was now and then impossible for the 
officiating clergyman to dispose of the throng of clients 
and be able to take his place at the morning service. 
The organist's task in essaying to accompany the 
Psalms with some thirty or forty people standing round 
the altar rails and shuffling about was no light under- 
taking. 

Soon after I was appointed to Manchester, Sir 
William Houldsworth offered to build a new organ 
and to restore the old rood screen. This was done, 
and its achievement realised a splendid and generous 
project. The upper part of the rood screen, however, 
is from designs by Sir Gilbert Scott, to harmonize 
with the case of the Hill organ, also from his designs. 
The old Father Smith organ is, I am glad to say, 
still carefully preserved. In my time we occasionally 
used it for services in a side chapel of which there 
are several branching off from the Choir. 

There was one remarkable old bass in the choir, by 
name Stocks. He had a tremendous voice, and one 
day nearly frightened me to death. It was soon after 
entering on my duties, and an anthem of Kent's was 
being sung. There is a quartet to the words, "Thine, 
O Lord, is the greatness," and this went on nicely 
enough until the ascending passage to the words 



58 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

'" And the power, and the victory, and the majesty " 
was reached. At the words " and the majesty," Stocks 
and the choir on his side broke in fortissimo, Stocks 
.giving out a top E flat on a broad Lancashire a on the 
word " majesty " which nearly blew my head off. 
It was a bit of dramatic effect which was understood at 
Manchester, but for which I was not prepared. I told 
Stocks of the effect it produced on me, and he was 
delighted. One of the men told me Stocks used to 
drive a coal-cart when young, and that before I came 
he often sang an anthem by Spohr, beginning, " Come 
up hither," pronouncing the opening words, " Coom 
oop," just as he did in his old coal-cart days. Some 
of the Lancashire singers in Cathedral and Church are, 
or were, at any rate fifty years ago, somewhat original in 
their notions. I remember an experience which occurred 
to a pupil of mine. He was appointed organist 
to a new church in the suburbs of Manchester. 
I forget his name, but we will call him Jones. He 
had a friend whom we may call Smith, who possessed 
a stentorian bass voice but little musical knowledge. 
Smith however begged hard to be allowed to join the 
choir, and Jones, against his better judgment, at last 
consented. On the following Sunday Smith appeared 
in the choir, and when the Venite started he immediately 
began singing the soprano part, but two octaves below 
the proper pitch! A tenor singer next him seized a 
chant-book, and pushing it before Smith, said : " This 
is the bass part, man, this is the bass part." " Oh ! 
never mind the bass part," said Smith, " I'll sing like 
the little ' beggars ' * in front." 

Candidates for admission into Cathedral choirs have 
sometimes very hazy notions of the music which is 
usually sung, and also of the standard of efficiency 

* Smith, indeed, with unconscious irreverence, used a warmer 
description, which I am compelled to omit. 



VISIT TO TENBURY 59 

required. At a certain Cathedral not far from 
Manchester a candidate for a vacant bass lay- 
clerkship having been summoned to attend for trial, 
was told he would have to sing a solo of his own choice 
at the afternoon service. He seemed ready to do so, 
and after some cogitation announced that he would 
sing " The Wolf " ! 

Another candidate, of very bucolic aspect, attended 
a trial of voices and was apparently much surprised 
when a lay-clerk placed a volume of Greene's Anthems 
before him, one of which he was to read at sight. He 
looked with contempt at the volume, and said : " Why, 
mon, dost thou sing fr' bukes here? I canna' sing 
fr' bukes." And taking up his hat, he left in high 
dudgeon. 

In the early 'seventies, at the time when I began to 
think about proceeding to the degree of Mus. Doc., I 
visited Ouseley at Tenbury. Here Sir Frederick main- 
tained a daily Cathedral service in the Chapel, which, 
along with the quaint mediaeval atmosphere that somehow 
seemed everywhere to attach to the College, I enjoyed 
very much. Sir Frederick loved Cathedral music, and 
undoubtedly his devotion to what became his life- 
work, and his labours at Oxford, did much to establish 
higher standards and ideals in the profession. I had 
come to know him well, and valued his friendship very 
much. I have often acted with him as examiner at 
Oxford; there was a quiet charm attaching to his 
personality that made intercourse with him exceedingly 
enjoyable. 

A curious interest attaches to my visit to Ouseley on 
the above occasion. But before speaking of this I must 
go back a few years. In my boyhood at Rochester I 
had formed an aquaintance with a Roman Catholic 
priest, who, intensely fond of music, would come 
frequently to the Cathedral services. He was, I think, 



60 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

a chaplain to the Forces. The last time I had seen 
him was on an occasion when travelling to London 
with my mother. He joined us in the train, his destina- 
tion being somewhere abroad. Just before my visit to 
Tenbury I was surprised at receiving a letter from him, 
in which he explained that he was occupying the priest's 
house in the establishment of a well-known Roman 
Catholic family near by, and that he would like me to 
call upon him. 

This I hastened to do, and after leaving Tenbury 
spent some very pleasant days with my early friend. His 
musical enthusiasm had not waned. We found much 
to talk about on musical subjects, and once or twice my 
exercise for the Mus. Doc. degree, which I was then 
embarked upon, came up for discussion. One evening, 
in his library, he took down a book and read to me some 
portions of that wonderful text, Newman's " Gerontius." 
" Now," said he, " if you want something to set to 
music, why not undertake this ? " And he added, 
" The man who sets this worthily will make an 
undying reputation." He presented me with the book, 
which I brought away, and studied carefully, but I 
confess the subject seemed beyond my powers. More- 
over, it dealt with matters with which I, not being a 
Roman Catholic, was really unfamiliar, and to which it 
would have been impossible for me to do any justice. 
But I went so far as to submit the idea to Mr. Joseph 
Bennett, who had provided me with a libretto (" The 
Repentance, of Nineveh") for a work that I had in 
hand for the Worcester Festival. He agreed with me 
that the imagery of the poem demanded for its musical 
setting a temperament as distinct as that which had 
produced the moving verse, so I relinquished the idea 
of undertaking it. Yet not far away from the house 
wherein my Roman Catholic friend made his prophetic 
pronouncement, there was then living the man who 



DOCTOR'S DEGREE 61 

before many years would have achieved the distinction 
foretold Edward Elgar, whose unsurpassable setting 
of " Gerontius " is known and reverenced wherever 
choral singing is practised. 

In connection with my desire to procure my Doctor's 
degree I may mention a curious little incident. I had 
been to the public School of Rossall to examine in music. 
Other examinations were held at the time, and I 
travelled back with one of the examiners Mr. (now 
Lord) Moulton. He was so kind as to ask me about 
my work, and I told him that I was just contem- 
plating trying for my Doctor's degree if I could 
find the time. " Oh, yes," he said, " don't neglect 
that." " Get all the degrees you can, and as soon as 
you can." This made an impression upon me, so 
I set to work to compose my Exercise, which was 
accepted, and then presented myself again at Oxford 
in 1874, passing the examination. My Exercise was 
performed in the Sheldonian Theatre, many friends 
coming from Manchester to assist, besides others at 
Oxford, Walter Parratt, then organist of Magdalen, 
playing in the orchestra. It was fortunate that I 
took Mr. Moulton's advice, for in a few months the 
appointment of Westminster Abbey became vacant, and 
it might have made a difference. My Manchester friends 
were much interested in my degree, and I was handed 
a substantial cheque, subscribed by various gentlemen, 
to pay the expenses of the performance at Oxford. 

The most important event at the Cathedral of 
Manchester in my time was the Consecration of Bishop 
Fraser. I composed a special anthem for the occasion 
(" The Lord hath chosen Zion "), and as the Archbishop 
of York was musical and desired to take his part in the 
"Veni Creator," I got Dr. Monk, of York Minster, to 
make a special setting for this service. Bishop Fraser 
was always a kind friend to me. 



62 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Halle was a great musical power at Manchester, and 
deservedly so. He had established a fine orchestral 
and choral force, and gave concerts of first-class 
importance every week at Manchester and in many 
of the great Northern towns. He was an excellent 
conductor, without any tricks or oddities. As a con- 
ductor of choral music he was just as successful 
as with the orchestra, which is not always the case. 
He did not train the choir, that being done for him 
by a chorus-master of splendid energy and resource, 
Charles Hecht. The choir worshipped Halle, the 
Lancashire lads and lasses coming entirely under his 
sway. 

I think he was never nonplussed but once. This was 
during one of the many performances of Berlioz's 
" Faust " (a work that Halle had really restored to 
life, at least in England). In the well known Serenade 
for Mephistopheles there is a dramatic and dangerous 
part for the choir, who have to come in with a 
sudden satirical " Ha ! " in the course of the song. An 
enthusiastic tenor in the choir was always very alert 
and on the spot to those who watched him, as I often 
did. But on this occasion he was a little too alert, and 
just a moment before the whole choir should enter, he 
came in alone with a loud nasal " Ha ! " The effect 
was fearful, the choir could hardly go on, the audience 
were convulsed, and Halle well he would have 
killed the man, I am sure, if he could, and he tried to 
do so with his eye. I never saw that tenor again, some 
say he emigrated ! 

Halle had many good stories, which he told 
wonderfully well. There was one about dreams, 
and how they might come true. The example he gave 
of this curious fact is not, I think, entirely unknown, 
although I have not myself seen it in print. (I 
think I recollect it pretty well even after forty-four 



THE LOTTERY TICKET 63 

years ! ) : A girl bought a ticket in a lottery* in 
which were large money-prizes. She had applied to 
the local authority, and asked particularly that she 
might have No. 23. They told her they had not got 
the number, and she must have another. This she 
absolutely refused to accept, and she was so pertinacious 
that at last they said they would see if they could get 
No. 23 for her. This they did, with the result that she 
won a good prize. When she went to claim the money 
the authorities asked her why she had insisted upon 
that number, as it seemed so odd that she should have 
done so, and so very remarkable that it should have 
won a prize. They were sure there was no cheating in 
the matter, but why did she demand No. 23 ? " Oh ! " 
she said, " because of my dream. I was thinking about 
the lottery, and I dreamt one night that I bought 
No. 7. The next night I dreamt the same thing 
again, and on the third night, too. So I said to myself, 
' Three times seven is twenty-three ; that 's the number 
I'll have.' " 

Whilst at Manchester, I was surprised at the amount 
of music to be found among amateurs. Many well-to-do 
professional and business men had organs in their 
houses, and I was not long in making many kind and 
hospitable friends. Among the professional musicians 
were several men of mark. Charles Hecht, Halle's 
chorus-master, was a first-class musician and a delightful 
man, and I learned much from his wide knowledge of 
music. With Dr. Henry Hiles, also, I formed a cordial 
friendship. He was not easy to get on with, so it was 
reported ; but I found in him a real friend, and we saw 
a good deal of each other. Altogether my Manchester 
life was a pleasant one, and although I would not 
have cared to live in that city all my days, yet I 
cannot be too thankful that my early years as a 

* The scene is laid, I suppose, in Halle's native Germany. 



64 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Cathedral Organist were spent in a place so musical 
and so alive, where it was not possible to rust or 
get lazy. 

It was indeed an arduous life that I led in the cotton 
city, so that I was glad now and then to run away from 
the mists and rain, and the roaring tide of traffic, to 
seek a quieter scene. Thus it came about that I paid 
my first visit to the English Lakes, staying with 
Dr. Troutbeck at the Vicarage of Patterdale, near 
Ullswater. I recall an absurd experience that 
befell me there, which I think I must describe. 
We were out for a long walk, and I was interested 
in watching some trout, always an attraction to 
me, darting about in a little stream. I leaned 
over I forget now whether it was a bridge, or 
a rail at the side of the stream to observe more 
closely, but my centre of gravity must have been 
disturbed, for suddenly I found myself taking a header 
into the water. For a moment I laid upon the bottom, 
and then floundered out ! I am bound to say I did 
not get much sympathy from Dr. Troutbeck or his 
family ! It was six miles from home, and I had to 
walk like an athlete to keep my blood in circulation. 
Afterwards, at the Abbey, we would often laugh over 
the recollection of this episode. 

Although Manchester at that time was a long journey 
from London, I neglected no opportunities for 
keeping myself familiar with what was going on in the 
Metropolis in the way of music. For instance, I made 
a great effort to hear Bach's " Passion " music 
produced under Dean Stanley's auspices conducted 
by Barnby in Westminster Abbey; a very notable 
event which really set an example that has been 
widely followed. I had been promised a ticket, but it 
did not arrive. However, I went up to London and to 
the Abbey, but was sternly refused admission, as I had 




MANCMKSTKR CATHKDKAL : THK CHOIR (LooKixr, \\'EST). 
(Showing the Original Position ol the Father Smith Organ.) 



CANDIDATURE FOR THE ABBEY 65 

no ticket. I might have said, " You won't let me in 
now, but you will some day," but I didn't, and 
solaced myself by going to the opera and hearing 
"William Tell." Also, later on, I attended the dinner 
given to Sir John Goss on his knighthood. The 
chair was taken by old Cipriani Potter, and I had the 
honour of an introduction to Sterndale Bennett that 
night, Sir John presenting me to him as one of his 
pupils and organist of Manchester Cathedral. Bennett 
congratulated me, and said to Sir John, " These young 
men begin where we leave off! " 

I was so fortunate as to see Verdi direct the perform- 
ance of his splendid " Requiem " in the Albert Hall, in 
1875, little thinking that I should come to conduct the 
same work in the same place. He was a distinguished 
conductor, and revealed no eccentricities. On a later 
occasion (in 1877), in the same hall, I saw Wagner 
conduct or try to conduct some of his own works. 
But he was really hopeless as a conductor. Had it not 
been for Richter, the affair would have been a pitiful 
failure. 

In 1875 it was announced that James Turle, the 
organist of Westminster Abbey, was about to retire, 
and that a successor to him would be appointed. 
Needless to say, in common I suppose with many of 
my contemporaries, I was somewhat excited over the 
possibility of such a prize as the organistship of the 
Abbey falling to me, but must candidly confess that 
I did not at all count upon it. However, in the course 
of a short time I received a letter from Canon 
Duckworth on behalf of the Chapter, saying that 
my name, with others, had been brought before 
them as a possible successor to Turle. This I no 
doubt owed principally to Dr. Troutbeck, who was 
Precentor at Manchester when I went there. He left 
soon after to become Minor Canon at Westminster. 



66 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Canon Duckworth was his brother-in-law. I had spent 
six years at Manchester, was still young, and had 
taken the degrees of Mus. Bac. and Mus. Doc. by 
examination, so that I had some fairly good credentials. 
There was no competition, but Canon Duckworth 
asked me to send the names of a few people for 
reference, a request that was easily fulfilled. 

Dr. Stainer kindly helped me, Dr. Herbert Oakeley, 
Henry Smart, Barnby, and Dr. Edward Hopkins 
being also among my supporters. I was able to get 
Smart's help from the fact that he had attended the 
Cathedral of Manchester when I opened the new 
organ, and so had heard me play. I did not know 
him very well, but went to Stockport to interview a 
musical amateur who was an intimate friend of Smart's, 
and with whom he constantly stayed. I told him what 
was in the wind, and he said he would write to Smart 
for me, telling me afterwards he had done so, adding 
that he had written a letter that would " fetch a duck 
off the water" ! 

One incident that must not be forgotten was connected 
with Bishop Fraser, whom I went to call upon, knowing 
he was a great friend of Dean Stanley's. When 
I came in, he received me in his most kind and 
genial way, gave me tea, and then told me he had been 
preaching at Westminster the previous Sunday, when 
Dean Stanley had asked him about me. He had 
told the Dean that I was so well thought of, and so 
happy at Manchester, that he did not think I would 
come. I thought this was a very good testimonial. 
The appointment was not made for some considerable 
time, the task of selection, I believe, causing Dean 
Stanley a great deal of anxiety ; his wife, Lady 
Augusta, wrote in a letter to one of my friends, which 
was afterwards shown to me, that she thought choosing 
an organist was more difficult than choosing a wife ! 



APPOINTMENT TO WESTMINSTER 67 

As I have said, there was no musical competition 
for the appointment, but I had to come up and 
interview Dean Stanley. I did not glean much from 
him, and am bound to say I went back rather discour- 
aged at my prospects, not from anything that he had 
said but because so little was said. However, after a 
time a letter came from the Dean telling me I was 
selected, and asking me not to mention it for a few 
days as he was anxious to put a correct statement in 
the Press, but could not do so until his return from 
Bedford, where he was inaugurating the John Bunyan 
Memorial. So I had to possess my soul in silence- 
rather a difficult thing. I did make a confidant of one 
man, with whom I had held many anxious consulta- 
tions during the period when the appointment was 
pending, and he kept the secret, till in a few days the 
announcement was made in The Times, when the 
Manchester people congratulated me very warmly. 

I had to run up to the Abbey to receive the formal 
appointment, meeting there for the first time one of 
the dearest and best friends I ever had in Canon 
Prothero. He was kind enough to receive me with 
great cordiality, and it was through his influence that 
I was enabled to have a residence in the Cloisters at 
once, although that had not been promised to me. 
Turle, on his retirement, continued to live in his 
house until his death ; and when that event occurred, 
the house, together with two of the Canons' residences, 
passed by Act of Parliament to Westminster School. 
An allowance in money was suggested to me instead of 
a residence, but I was glad to accept Littlington 
Tower, for though there were very few rooms it was 
large enough for the time being. In 1888 it was greatly 
improved and enlarged under the superintendence of 
J. L. Pearson, whose work of restoration of the North 
Transept of the Abbey is so well known. 



68 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

No quieter or more delightful spot can be found in 
town. A fine plane-tree grows in the centre of the 
quadrangle, where a fountain gives a pleasant sound. 
The fountain occupies the site of the old cistern which 
supplied the residents of the Cloister garth with water, 
the water being conveyed from the West Bourne (now 
the Serpentine, in Hyde Park) in wooden pipes con- 
structed from hollowed trunks of trees. Thrushes and 
blackbirds are often heard here, and of course the 
London pigeon has made this quiet corner his own. 
A tomb on the east side is that of Dr. Wilson, who 
is almost certainly Shakespeare's Tenor. "Sigh no 
more, ladies " is mentioned in the First Folio to be 
sung by "Jack Wilson," and everything points to this 
being the grave of " Jack." The stone bears a quaint 

inscription : 

JOHN WILSON 

Dr. in Musick here interred 

Dyed February ye 22. 1673. 

Aged 78 yeares 10 months and 

17 dayes. 

An amusing story in connection with this stone was 
told to me by the late Dr. Cummings. The inscription 
was nearly illegible, and the Dean and Chapter, I 
suppose at Dr. Cummings' suggestion, ordered it to be 
re-cut. While the mason was executing his task Dr. 
Cummings stood by and told the man a few particulars 
of Dr. Wilson, how that he was Shakespeare's Tenor, 
and Professor of Music in the University of Oxford, 
and altogether a great musician. After a while the 
man paused in his work, and said, " Ah ! I wish I 
had known that when we took that there drain-pipe 
through him . . . ! " 

* " To what base uses we may return, Horatio ! Why may not 
imagination trace the noble dust of Alexander, till he find it stopping 
a bunghole?" Hamlet, Act 5, Sc. i. 



A STORY OF LADY HAMILTON 69 

According to Augustus Hare,* " In the Littlington 
Tower [now a portion of my house] the beautiful Emma 
Hart, afterwards Lady Hamilton, lived as servant to 
Mr. Dare." I believe this gentleman was a member of 
the choir. His . son became organist of Hereford 
Cathedral. The Tower, excepting the lower window 
and entrance door, is still very much as it was in Lady 
Hamilton's day. I give on another page an interesting 
illustration reproduced from The Mirror of 1840. 

Upon leaving Manchester for the Abbey, I was 
presented with some handsome silver ; also a purse of 
money, which proved very useful at the time, while the 
Dean and Chapter gave me a present of books for 
my library. I was genuinely sorry when the time 
came to bid farewell to the scene of so much kindness 
and musical interest. 

Alas ! very few of my intimate friends in Manchester 
are now living, but I still have visits from some who 
knew me when I was, as the old lady said of me, 
"only a lad." 



* "Walks in London," vol. ii. 



CHAPTER VI. 

Westminster Abbey Death of Turle Dean Stanley's role of 
Musical Critic Dean Stanley and Bach's " Passion " Early 
Difficulties with the Choir The Press and the Lay-Vicars 
An " Error of Judgment " A Dental Interlude " Bellows v. 
Diaphragms " Professorial Appointments : National Training 
School and Royal College of Music Sir George Grove and 
Sir Hubert Parry Three Registrars of the Royal College 
Attwood and Mozart : Exchange of Compliments Educational 
and Literary Publications The Caxton Celebration. 

I COMMENCED my duties at the Abbey in 1875, after 
the Summer holidays, being well received by my 
predecessor, James Turle, who still retained his title of 
Organist, and, as I have said, continued to live in his 
house in the Cloisters. This welcome was all the more 
acceptable to me, inasmuch as he had been assisted for 
some years by a clever pupil (who afterwards became 
organist of the Chapel Royal Charles Jekyll) who 
possibly he had hoped might have succeeded him. He 
never interfered with my work in any way, or proffered 
any but the kindest criticism and counsel. During 
the few years he spent in his retirement from active 
work, I can truly say I did all in my power to 
add to the comfort of his days, and when occasion 
arose I would seek the benefit of his advice. 

He was a devoted whist-player, and I frequently ran 
into his house and joined in the game. Another partner 
in the rubber was a brother of Turle, who had 
been organist of Armagh Cathedral. When the Irish 
Church was disestablished I believe he commuted his 



A SUPPLY OF DRUMS 71 

emoluments and retired with a considerable sum as 
compensation for the loss of his office. It was said 
that the old gentleman drank the health of Mr. 
Gladstone to whom he owed this bit of good fortune 
every night in a glass of port. 

Turle played the service now and then, the last 
time being on June 28th, 1880, the anniversary of 
the Coronation of Queen Victoria. When he played 
out with the National Anthem, I remember saying to a 
friend, " I feel this is the last time the dear old man 
will play in the Abbey " ; and so it was. He died on 
June 28th, 1882. 

In connection with seeking Turle's advice, I will 
venture to tell a story that reveals Dean Stanley in 
a new light, that of musical critic. Before being 
very long at the Abbey it fell to my lot to play the 
Dead March in " Saul." I played it as I had heard 
Hopkins and other musicians play it, but to my surprise 
found that the Dean was much disappointed by my 
performance. I took the opportunity of seeing him and 
asking him what was wrong. He said it did not sound 
like the Dead March in " Saul " which he had been 
accustomed to from Turle, nor at all like the Dead 
March as played by Dr. Buck, of Norwich, which 
he had heard some thirty years before. I could not 
help replying that I did not suppose it did sound 
like Dr. Buck's performance, as I had never heard 
that Dr. Buck was a capable organist, although an 
admirable teacher of boys, but promised to take the 
opportunity of asking Turle what his particular 
version was. This I did, and soon found that it 
included the introduction of some remarkable drum 
effects, which I had somewhat modified. I then told 
the Dean that if he would come and hear me, I would 
play it again. He came into the Nave one evening, 
when I gave him a supply of drums far exceeding what 



72 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Turle had done (I must admit for that occasion 
only), and he wrote me a note saying he was quite 
satisfied. Since then I have played the Dead March 
many times, and fancy I am somewhat celebrated for 
my drum effects, although these, I am afraid, are not 
approved by some of my brother organists. 

I am obliged to put on record that the musical 
services of the Abbey were not in a very flourishing 
condition under Dean Stanley. He did not, I believe, 
either love or understand music, and the artistic poverty 
of the daily service did not touch him. Of course I am 
speaking of the days when he was suffering under a 
great domestic sorrow. At such a time of affliction 
one hesitated to worry the Dean on such matters as 
the attendances of the choir. Although I feel it my 
duty to make this statement concerning his scanty 
interest in the daily services, yet all musicians and for 
the matter of that, all churchmen owe Dean Stanley 
a deep debt of gratitude for having authorised the first 
performance of Bach's " Passion " music in an English 
Cathedral or Abbey Church. This event took place 
at the Abbey before I came, the musical direction 
being in the hands of Joseph Barnby, whose brother 
was a member of the choir. Barnby, along with 
his brother, lived for a time in a part of the house which 
I now occupy. Not only did Dean Stanley authorise 
the performance of Bach's " Passion," but he paid the 
expenses of the band out of his own pocket. He did 
this also for some other oratorio performances which I 
directed in the early years of my appointment. 

The Dean was sometimes singularly absent-minded, 
and now and then seemed a little at sea when the 
boys were taken into the Jerusalem Chamber to 
be admitted into the choir. There is always a little 
ceremony, a few prayers and a short address by the 
Dean, the parents being present. Dean Stanley once 



ERRATIC LAY-VICARS 73 

caused some consternation among them by saying that 
he hoped they " would see that their boys attended the 
services punctually." As the boys were then living in 
a Choir-House, under a master, and the parents only 
saw their sons at rare intervals, it was not easy to see 
how they could comply with this request. 

So far as the choir was concerned, the chief difficulties 
which operated against a good choral service were lack of 
discipline and the erratic attendances of the Lay- Vicars.* 
There were some excellent singers among them, but 
also some old and very inferior ones. In one case the 
Lay- Vicar, on account of illness, never attended, 
but was represented by a deputy, and a very poor 
representative he was. Others attended apparently 
when they liked, having made special arrangements 
when they were appointed many years before to enable 
them to be absent very frequently. Then again, 
although there were twelve Lay- Vicars on the 
Foundation, only six were required to come on 
a week-day, certainly a very meagre choir for such a 
building as Westminster Abbey. Another curious and 
astonishing custom also prevailed. Some of the choir 
were also members of the Chapel Royal, St. James's, 
and in order to fulfil their duties at the Chapel Royal 
morning service they were allowed to walk out of their 
seats in the Abbey when the sermon began ! A little 

* It is astonishing that this abuse should have continued as long as it 
did. And yet forty years before I was appointed to the Abbey attention 
was drawn to the matter in an influential paper of that period. The 
following letter appeared in its issue for March 8th, 1835 : 

" DEAR , . . I pray you to tell me how it comes to pass that 
the Cathedral service is performed in a more slovenly manner in the 
Diocese of London than in any other with which I arn acquainted. I 
allude to that portion of the Service which is chanted by the choir. 
The choristers and singing men at St. Paul's and at Westminster 
Abbey do their part at a regular gallop, and to wind up the whole with 
becoming decency, they annoy the congregation by shuffling out as 
soon as they finish that portion of the service which is allotted to them. 
Their avocation cannot, one would think, be so momentous that they 
are unable to spare time to remain in their seats till the conclusion of 
the sermon. These remarks I have heard from others a score of times." 



74 

door was provided by which they could creep out 
unobserved, or slip in, if they came late. I have on 
more than one occasion found that the whole six men 
of one side had melted away during the sermon. They 
did not all belong to the Chapel Royal, but the 
"general impression" was that they did. 

Another thing which seems incredible was the 
entire absence of full-choir rehearsals. The boys 
were practised daily, but there was no regular practice 
for men and boys combined. Occasionally and par- 
ticularly if I asked them to do so, which in my early 
days I often did the soloists would come to my house to 
rehearse, yet this was purely an act of grace on their 
part. I soon made a move to get regular rehearsals 
established, but this was stoutly opposed by some 
members of the choir, one of whom, a man approaching 
seventy, told me that when he was appointed he 
undertook to obey the laudable customs of the Abbey, 
and he did not find that the laudable customs of the 
Abbey included any rehearsals ! I am bound to say 
that some of the youngest and best musicians felt the 
necessity for these rehearsals, although claiming that as 
it was extra- work and not included at their appointment 
they ought to be paid a fee for attending. As the salaries 
at the Abbey were none too large, either in the case of 
Lay- Vicars or Organist, I was only too glad to get 
the rehearsals established even if the Chapter paid 
for them. 

It seems that small salaries for the choir were 
almost a tradition. I ascertained in some investigations 
which I embarked upon later, that almost a century 
ago the Lay- Vicars were paid from a fund raised by 
charging visitors for admission to certain parts of 
the Abbey. The Dean at that time, in response 
to public agitation, reduced the charge for admission, 
an act which may have been gratifying to the visitors, 



LAY-VICARS' SALARIES 75 

but which roused the ire of the choir, whose stipends 
suffered in like proportion. The money collected 
for showing the wax effigies exhibited at the 
Abbey also formed a portion of the emoluments 
of the Lay- Vicars. Thus it was to their interest to 
make the waxworks an attractive feature, and it 
is said that the addition of the excellent effigy of 
Nelson to the collection was made because the public 
rather expected to find the national hero at the Abbey, 
and the Lay-Vicars were afraid that the attraction of 
St. Paul's would prove a serious loss to them. These 
abuses have long since been abolished, and the fees 
paid by visitors for being conducted round the royal 
tombs, &c., are devoted to the Ornaments Fund, 
which is worthily administered. I believe the cost of 
the organ-case on the south side of the Choir was 
defrayed out of this Fund. At any rate, the salaries 
of the Lay- Vicars do not now depend upon curious 
sightseers. 

It took some time to get the choir into shape at 
the rehearsals. There were, for instance, no stands 
to hold the books, &c., but by keeping a good temper 
I avoided any serious friction, although we had one 
or two differences of opinion. One of these arose 
from some action I took in the matter of one 
of the Lay- Vicars singing Handel's "Comfort ye." 
He was an old man approaching seventy, and an 
excellent musician, but, as was to be expected, his voice 
was of the weakest, in fact that of an old man. Yet he 
had sung this anthem for many years, and was reluctant 
to give up the " privilege." I represented the case to 
the Precentor, saying the singer would not dare to 
stand on the concert-platform and sing it, and he ought 
not to do so in Westminster Abbey. The Precentor 
took the line that so long as the Lay- Vicar was in 
the choir he had the right to sing what came to his 



76 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

turn, and in due course the anthem came round again. 
I thought I would try a little diplomacy, and being on 
very friendly terms with the old gentleman I ventured 
to tell him what I thought. But I had mistaken my 
man. He fell into a furious passion, finishing up 
by saying that he had " sung it before I was born " ; to 
which I replied, " All the more reason you shouldn't 
sing it now." The incident was followed by a complaint 
by certain members of the choir that I had interfered 
in a matter which was entirely in the Precentor's 
hands. No doubt this was technically the case, but 
such a position should not have been possible. It 
will, I think, be conceded that I was not very 
well treated over this incident by Dean Stanley, but 
it served to bring matters to a head to a certain 
extent. Amongst the Chapter were two very good 
friends of mine, Canon Prothero and Canon Duckworth, 
who did their best to get things put on a better 
footing. A note was drafted and sent to me also, I 
believe, to the Precentor intimating that I could object 
to anything he had put down " if unsuitable to the 
members of the Choir on duty, or impossible of 
preparation in the time allowed." But Dean Stanley 
accompanied this note to me by another of his own, 
saying that it was "an error of judgment on my 
part, which he was confident would not be repeated " ! 
This made me very angry, and, I think, justly so, but 
my friends of the Chapter soothed my feelings and we 
never again had similar trouble. Many members of the 
choir held high positions as teachers of singing and 
conductors of glee-parties, and indeed were men with 
whom it was a pleasure to work. They were, perhaps, 
sometimes a little bit inclined to self-complacency, 
and one with whom I was very friendly gave me an 
opportunity of scoring off him, an incident which 
often afforded us laughter in after years. I asked 



AN AMPLE CHOIR 77 

him about a particular anthem, saying, " Do you sing 
so-and-so here " ? " We sing anything," he replied. 
" Yes," I said, " and anyhow ! " 

The boys of the choir had been well trained, and 
were very keen, but they had nothing like the advantages 
which the present boys enjoy. There was no Choir- 
House until after I became organist. They lived at 
their homes in various parts of London, and had to 
come to the Abbey before nine o'clock for rehearsal, 
ready for the morning service at ten o'clock. They 
were given a luncheon, and after the afternoon service 
departed again to their homes. Their schooling was 
only fair, the school having but one master. They 
numbered sixteen, at a later time raised to the present 
number of twenty-four, when also an addition of six 
assistants was made to the Lay- Vicars, thus bringing 
up the choir to twelve men and twenty-four boys for 
afternoon and Sunday services. This was a real 
advantage, and provided an ample force. The greatest 
difficulty in making the music go well was the bad 
position of the choir. The Lay- Vicars occupied 
stalls not special choir-stalls, but the regular stalls 
usually allotted to the congregation. These were very 
roomy, and did not conduce to reverence. The boys 
were placed in pews immediately below the stalls. But 
between the Decani and Cantoris sides there were four, 
and sometimes six, rows of ordinary worshippers, many 
of them ladies, wearing large hats, and this was the sort 
of wall which the boys had to sing against. I need not 
say it was a matter of extreme difficulty to make 
elaborate music go well under such conditions. With 
the organ placed as it was, at a considerable distance 
from the choir, the strain upon the organist was very 
great. Again, at the period of my appointment the 
organ was a very old-fashioned affair, the Great organ 
going down an octave lower on the manuals than is the 



78 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

case with modern organs. This was no doubt done to 
facilitate the " drums " in the Dead March ! The 
organ had been removed from the central part of the 
screen in 1847, but it was not raised as it is now up to 
the Triforium. The consequence was that the pipes 
spoke straight at the organist, thus making it very 
difficult for him to hear the choir. However, 1 made 
the best of it. In 1884 the organ was re-built and 
brought fully up to date, and my work rendered 
much more agreeable. But the choir seats were still 
retained in their old and uncomfortable position ; it 
was not until after the Coronation of King George V. 
in 1911 that, under the auspices of the present Dean, 
the choir-stalls were arranged as they now are. It was 
an immense gain, for which I had every reason to 
thank Bishop Ryle ! In justice to Bishop Gore I 
ought to say that when he was Canon of Westminster 
he made great efforts to get the choir-stalls re-arranged, 
but the opposition of the ordinary seat-holders was too 
strong for him. I must also add that I had not the 
courage to press the matter so much perhaps as should 
have been done. 

Another improvement has been made of late which 
is a real gain and comfort to the musical staff. For 
many years the anthem on Sunday afternoon, instead 
of being taken as the Rubric directs " after the third 
collect" and before the Sermon, was arranged to be 
sung after the sermon ! The consequence was that 
very often the boys, and also the men, were inclined to 
be sleepy having frequently to sit out a discourse of 
great length and naturally their voices suffered. Of 
course the reason for the extraordinary arrangement 
was because some of the congregation showed a disposi- 
tion to go out after the anthem and to forego the sermon. 
I do not know when the plan for defeating this bad 
habit was adopted, but Turle told me that one of 



AGED LAY-VICARS 79 

the Lay- Vicars at the time said to the Canon in Residence 
that it was "a bit of professional jealousy." The 
anthem is now allotted its proper place in the service. 

The great evil not only in the Abbey but in Cathedrals 
generally has been the absence of any provision for the 
retirement of old members of the musical staff. It is 
absurd to expect men approaching seventy to retain 
their voices in perfect condition, particularly such voices 
as the altos and tenors. Basses, perhaps, may do so, 
but even in their case the upper notes become feeble. 
In the Abbey a man continued to occupy his place in 
the choir when hopelessly incapable of singing in tune. 
If he retired he did not resign, but was allowed to send 
a deputy, who only too frequently was very little better 
than the person he was supposed to represent. The age 
that some of the Lay-Vicars had attained, and the 
positions they occupied in musical circles, made it rather 
difficult for me as a young man to correct their render- 
ings. In some cases they wished to give their own 
readings of solos and recitatives, readings which did not 
accord with my judgment. And the sort of independence 
which they had enjoyed for many years, along with 
the total absence of full rehearsals, was a condition which 
they would have liked to continue. Be it said that they 
ought not so long to have been allowed to spoil the 
services of the Church, as they certainly did. 1 cannot 
help recording one very ludicrous occurrence, the 
accuracy of which I can vouch for. An old gentleman 
was singing in an anthem containing a solo to the words 
" He is a Father of the fatherless, and defendeth the 
cause of the widows," and trying, I suppose, to put 
extra pathos into the words, he caused his upper false- 
teeth to descend into his lower jaw ! It took him a 
little time to put his mouth right and to proceed. 
Another story, told to me by the organist of the Chapel 
Royal, which I believe is perfectly true, also bearing on 



8o A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

the ludicrous efforts of these old singers, may be 
permitted. The singer was an alto performing a 
recitative in one of Purcell's anthems in the Chapel 
Royal. The words were, " The ungodly have laid a 
snare for me," and I suppose, with his cracked and 
comical voice, he somewhat annoyed an old Peer who 
sat immediately behind the choir and was rather given 
to thinking aloud. When the singer had finished his 
sentence, " The ungodly have laid a snare for me," the 
old Peer ejaculated, loudly enough to be heard by the 
choir, "I wish to heaven they'd caught you ! " 

I am glad to be able to say at this point that affairs 
at the Abbey have been much better for a long time 
past, and arrangements have now been made which 
I hope will save my successors some of the troubles 
and anxieties which beset my path for many years. It 
must not be supposed that I was on bad terms with the 
choir or the Precentor such was not the case. 
Except for an occasional difference of opinion we 
worked well together, and I believe I have always had 
the respect and affection of my colleagues. An incident 
occurs to me which shows the pleasant relations 
established between us. I organized an excursion 
to Wendover, in Bucks, for the purpose of playing 
a cricket-match between the gentlemen of the choir 
and my articled pupils, who by that time were very 
numerous. The challenge issued to the choir, and 
put up in the music-room, ran as follows : 

CRICKET MATCH. 
BELLOWS versus DIAPHRAGMS. 

The Great and Swell occupants of the Organ Loft invite the 
Choir, if they can descend Solo(w), to a friendly Manual and 
Pedal Exercise, entitled Cricket. Every Player is requested 
to provide a Full Score, and it is hoped many runs will be 
executed, though no " great shakes " are expected. All 
particulars to be settled at the rehearsal on Tuesday next at a 
quarter to Eleven. 

P.S. A Ball-proof Cuirass will be provided and a doctor 
zv ill attend. 




u 



8i 

It was a delightful afternoon, but as the cricket-pitch 
was extremely rough several accidents occurred to the 
various players, one of the " Bellows " team getting his 
finger badly hurt and a " Diaphragm " sustaining 
a severe blow on the nose, which organ bled profusely. 
I was very unlucky on this occasion in the way of 
scoring. I borrowed a bat called the " demon driver," 
which I had presented to the Choir Cricket Club to 
help them in their matches against St. Paul's and the 
Chapel Royal,* and which was reputed to be a splendid 
run-getter. Being very anxious to make a few runs, 
I am obliged to confess that I privately arranged with 
the " Diaphragm" bowler (Mr. John Foster), in exchange 
for a good cigar (!), to give me a fairly easy ball 
to start with, which he undertook to do. I gave a 
tremendous swipe with the " demon driver," and the 
ball flew high up into the air to the boundary, to 
be caught by one of the tenors, who assured me he 
"wouldn't have done it, had it been possible to miss 
it," so I was out with a duck's egg ! I was very 
disappointed, and so was my little daughter, who took 
much interest in my batting and shed copious tears at 
the tragedy. But it was a pleasant day, and such a 
gathering helped us over the stones at future rehearsals. 
Having mentioned my articled pupils I may explain 
that no regular official assistant at the Abbey was 
given to me for some twenty years. I was allowed 
of course to have occasional assistance at my own 
expense, as in fact the work could not possibly be 
carried on by one man. Daily services, daily rehearsals, 
and the many extra services which are constantly held 
in the Abbey, make a great demand upon the organist's 

* I think I ought to mention here the name of a devoted musical amateur, 
Mr. Alfred Jackson, who was a real friend of the choristers. It was 
at his instigation, and his expense, that these matches were established 
and maintained, whereby the boys were provided with some delightful 
excursions at a time when such treats were few and far between, 

G 



82 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

time. My articled pupils were very useful. Some 
of them have now risen to high rank in the musical 
world, and it has been a pleasure to pay them a visit 
in their own important posts. Sometimes I was able 
to impart a bit of useful advice. I was reminded of 
this quite lately by one old pupil. He had a very nice 
organistship in a seaside town, and I went down to give 
a recital at his church. Walking on the front, I asked 
him how he was getting on in his appointment. 
He had a curious habit, which I had often noticed, 
of grumbling a little even if he admitted he was doing 
well, and somewhat to my annoyance he lapsed into 
his weakness as we walked and talked; so I resolved 
to try and cure him. I had noticed in his study some 
nicely illuminated texts which, he told me with much 
pride, were done by the lady he hoped shortly to make 
his wife. " Do you think," I said, " that the young lady 
you spoke of will illuminate a text which I would 
like to suggest for your room?" "Oh, yes," said he, 
" of course she will, and she will be much honoured." 
Well, I said, if she will do this, and if you will read 
it every morning, it will do you more good than all the 
others. It consists of only two words, "Don't grumble." 

He has often said what good it did him, and I have 
his permission to tell the story. 

In March, 1876, the death of Lady Augusta Stanley 
cast a great shadow over the Abbey and its Precincts. 
I had never had the pleasure of meeting her, as she was 
an invalid at the time of my appointment, but she sent me 
a message from her couch one day to say she had heard 
me practising the organ in the Abbey, and hoped I would 
" help her husband to make the Services glorious." I 
know that her influence over the inhabitants of the 
Cloisters was a very sweet one, and the loss to the 
whole community of the Abbey was in the nature of a 
bereavement. There was a very impressive funeral on 



PROFESSORIAL APPOINTMENTS 83 

March gth, which Queen Victoria attended, when 
Lady Augusta was laid to rest in Henry the Seventh's 
Chapel. 

It was in this year also that I played at two important 
weddings that of Prof. Tyndall and also that of 
Sir William Harcourt. 

My work in the Abbey did not fill in all my time 
every day ; nor, must I admit, was the salary of the 
Organist at all commensurate with the position and 
its duties ! But I was allowed sufficient liberty from 
Abbey services to enable me to earn my living, and so 
did not complain. 

In 1876 I was one of the Professors appointed to the 
National Training School of Music. This School was 
founded principally by the efforts of H.R.H. Prince 
Alfred, afterwards Duke of Edinburgh, and directed 
by Sir Arthur Sullivan. Also, at the suggestion of 
Sir John Stainer, I was appointed to the Crystal 
Palace School of Music, and this proved a great 
advantage, as I could go to the Saturday concerts 
there very frequently concerts which had an immense 
effect upon the rising School of English musicians. 

Of the original staff of the National Training School 
I think there are only two survivors at the Royal 
College Mr. Visetti and myself. Under Sullivan, and 
for a short time under Stainer, the National Training 
School did good work, and many prominent musicians 
of the present day owe much to having obtained 
the Scholarships of that institution. It was through 
this school also that Mr. Eugene D'Albert was 
discovered. I remember his coming perfectly well a 
little boy, with powers on the pianoforte that were truly 
astonishing. I am sorry to say that of late years he 
has done his best to make people believe he owes 
nothing of his music to England ; but some of us are 
old enough to know better. The National Training 



84 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

School of course was the forerunner of the Royal 
College of Music, which was inaugurated as a Royal 
and National institution in the same building in the 
year 1883. 

The Royal College of Music has been the scene of 
my chief teaching. In a later chapter I have more to 
say about this institution. It has been my good fortune 
to direct the earlier studies of many of our most promising 
and clever young musicians, preparing them for the 
splendid training in composition which later they had 
from Sir Hubert Parry, Sir Charles Stanford, and others. 
The enthusiasm of Sir George Grove, the first Director, 
is well known, and his delightful personality made it a 
pleasure to work for him. As to the second Director 
now, alas, as I pen these words, lying in the sleep 
of death Sir Hubert Parry, truly none can measure 
the scope and utility of the work that he achieved 
in the cause of music. With splendid devotion he 
dedicated himself to the task that he made his life- 
work, the daily drudgery of administering the affairs 
of a large school, charging himself with all its minutia.'. 
A reward, a guerdon, for the strenuous years was the 
deep feeling towards him of loyalty and affection that 
he was ever wont to inspire in teachers and students 
alike. He died, literally in harness, at the age of 
seventy. In his last address to the students, only a 
few months before his voice was stilled for ever, he 
used these words, that assuredly will live : 

^ What all the best of men live for is the service 
of the young, and of those that are to come after 
that their lives may be better and more profitable 
than their own. If a man has lived generously, and 
frankly, and kindly, it helps his old age to be genial, 
and kindly, and happy. Even if adverse fates have 
dealt cruelly with him, he has such compensations as 



SIR HUBERT PARRY'S LAST ADDRESS 85 

will help him to smile still with the sense that he 
cannot be defeated and it does not matter much if 
the time is short before him when the good long time 
behind him is a constant pleasure and content to look 
back to. So when you begin to think about it, it will 
be helpful to remember that youth must soon be 
gone, and to try to provide for the possibility of old 
age, however keen and eager you be ; and that it will 
be most worth getting to if your memories are 
plentifully worth cherishing, and never bring you 
anything but a finest sense of contentment in having 
done your best to live a life that was worth recalling 
that the fight has been won by the better against 
the worser self and that you have contrived to help 
the world to be a better place to live in before it is 
time to take leave of it." 

If any one ever did his best to make English music 
and English musicians in every way better than he 
found them, that man was Hubert Parry, who never 
omitted anything which his kindness and courtesy 
prompted him to say to young or old. In the midst of 
a mass of correspondence he found time to write to me 
from the Royal College of Music a charming letter on 
my last birthday the last letter I was ever to receive 
from him. (I give this letter in facsimile slightly 
reduced on page 87.) 

Besides my work as a teacher I may claim to 
have done a special service to the Royal College 
in having introduced Mr. Watson, the first Registrar, 
to Sir George Grove. Mr. Watson, like myself, 
hailed from Rochester, and there he first showed his 
remarkable powers of organization by bringing the local 
Choral Society up to a rare pitch of excellence. He 
also did much to establish the Kent Scholarship at the 
Royal College. He called upon me in the Cloisters, 



86 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

saying he thought he could be of use to the College, 
so I ventured to recommend him to the notice of 
Sir George. Every one knows what splendid work 
he did, not only at the College but in connection with 
the Associated Board and its important examinations. 
Alas! like many in the van of progress he set no limit 
to his zeal for work, and died in the flower of his age. 

His successor, Mr. Pownall, was once able to render 
me a signal service at the Abbey very like that which 
dear Hubert Parry had once hastened to fulfil, years 
before, at Windsor. Pownall was an excellent baritone, 
and came at a minute's notice to the Abbey to sing 
the fine solo, " Mighty Lord," in Bach's " Christmas 
Oratorio," when our own Abbey bass was attacked by 
illness. 

The third Registrar, Mr. Claude Aveling,* is the son 
of an old Rochester friend who remembered me 
as a boy in the choir. I have thus worked with 
three Registrars and including Dr. H. P. Allen, 
who now administers this great institution three 
Directors of the Royal College of Music. May it 
always have such devoted men as these to fill such 
important offices. 

In addition to the time spent upon teaching in 
these Colleges, and privately, I found myself able to 
contribute to a series of theoretical and educational 
works, issued by Messrs. Novello under the joint 
editorship of Sir John Stainer and Sir Hubert Parry, 
writing on " Counterpoint," and on " Double 
Counterpoint and Canon." These subjects appealed 
to me, as I had worked at them under Sir John Goss, 
and knew how much such text-books were needed. 
I also had the advantage of having had access 
to the exercises in Counterpoint which Attwood, 

* I am indebted to his father for the beautiful picture of the West Front 
of Rochester Cathedral that I am able to reproduce in this book. 



A BIRTHDAY GREETING 87 



, / 








4 



fitrj. 



k **Y~\ 




88 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

formerly organist of St. Paul's Cathedral, had worked 
under Mozart's tuition at Vienna in 1775. These 
volumes were in Goss's possession (they are now in 
my own library), and he constantly turned to them 
when I was with him, in order to show how Mozart 
treated certain points. I may say in passing that it is 
amazing to see the minute care which the great master 
took with one who, in my opinion, was a somewhat dull 
pupil. On one occasion Attwood wrote in a boyish 
hand against his exercise (which he probably left for 
Mozart's correction), " Thomas Attwood presents his 
compliments to Mr. Mozart, and hopes he will find the 
exercise satisfactory, as he has left no possible room for 
correction " ! On another example Mozart wrote, 
probably as a rejoinder to the above, "You are an ass." 

The preparation of the theoretical works above-named 
entailed for me considerable research and study; thus 
for a time I found no opportunity to do much in the 
way of composition. 

But in one direction I produced a work which was 
fairly original. I devised a system which I called 
" Musical Gestures." This was a method of teaching 
the rudiments of music by a system of drill. The 
pupils stand in a row, and say and do what the teacher 
does. I invented signs by hands and arms for the 
various notes, sharps, flats, &c. the outcome being 
a very amusing and easy way of imparting to children 
their first steps in music. The boys at the Abbey 
found huge enjoyment in these lessons, and were very 
pleased to be photographed for inclusion in the book. 

I have also in later years written a small volume on 
" Samuel Pepys Lover of Music," being a study of the 
diarist from his musical side ; and among other literary 
productions have compiled a " Birthday Book " with 
a musical quotation from Shakespeare for every day of 
the year. 



INTERESTING CAXTON RECORD 89 

To return to my Abbey work: On June 2nd, 
1877, a special service was held in connection 
with the Caxton Celebration. This Celebration was 
to commemorate the work of Caxton, whose printing 
press was set up in the Abbey Precincts. I suggested 
Mendelssohn's " Hymn of Praise " as a suitable work 
to be performed on the occasion, as it was expressly 
written for the Gutenberg Festival held at Leipsic 
in 1846, in commemoration of the invention of 
typography. 

We gave the work with full orchestra, and I contri- 
buted a setting of the Canticles for full orchestra and 
choir. The sermon was preached by Dean Stanley. 
A magnificent exhibition of books bearing upon the 
work of Caxton was held at the Albert Hall, but I 
believe that inquiries made at Westminster to ascertain 
if there were any Caxton records preserved there, 
yielded a negative result. The Abbey Muniment Room 
was little used or regarded until at a later time 
Dr. Scott, of the British Museum, was appointed to 
catalogue its wonderful treasures. He one day showed 
me an entry in the Prior's Rent Book, which proved 
that William Caxton had rented of the Prior three 
houses within the Abbey precincts. 

It was very unfortunate that the existence of these 
records was unknown at the time of the Celebration, 
as they would certainly have interested Dean Stanley. 



CHAPTER VII. 

First visit to Scotland First Salmon A Great Success in the 
" Lower L.eat ? ' " Catch " to commemorate a Catastrophe" Sit 
down on him " A Pushing Record on the Deveron Caught by 
the Tail A Distressing Accident with a Fly The Valley of 
Glass Anecdotes of the Minister "I gaed oot at the window" 
A Peninsular Warrior The Dominie and the " Examiners." 

MY first visit to Scotland was in 1879. I had made 
the acquaintance at the Abbey of a very ardent 
old Scotsman, who lived on the shores of Holy Loch, 
not far from Greenock. An ardent collector of 
violins and old line-engravings, his enthusiasm 
for violins and for music brought him up to 
London every year to attend the Monday Popular 
Concerts, when Joachim led the quartet. Besides 
attending the Pops, he came to the Abbey regularly, 
and pressed me to visit him at his house on the 
beautiful shores of the Loch, to which I suppose he had 
retired after successful years in business. A few very 
happy days were spent with him, doing a bit of 
fishing in the Loch, and some sight-seeing, also 
playing the harmonium in the Kirk on Sunday. 
Leaving him, I went to my friend Mr. (afterwards 
Sir William) Houldsworth, of Manchester, who had 
acquired a beautiful estate and built a fine house 
at Coodham, near Kilmarnock. Here he had a 
handsome, well-appointed private chapel, with a good 
organ, and retained a permanent organist. A choir 
came out every Sunday from Kilmarnock to give two 
complete choral services, Mr. Houldsworth himself often 
taking the organ. This was the first of a long series 
of annual visits that I made almost uninterruptedly up 



SOME UNEXPECTED SALMON 91 

to the year 1916, when my dear friend passed 
away. It was here that my first appearance on a. 
grouse moor took place. I had always been fond 
of fishing, but had never before had the opportunity 
of shooting, and Mr. Houldsworth was kind enough 
to let me go on to the moor with a gun. I did not 
shoot much, but at any rate inflicted no damage 
on sportsmen or beaters, for which I was thankful, 
and which I think must be considered rather a 
miracle. It was a delightful experience, that created 
in me the love for sport which I have followed up 
more or less ever since, with, no doubt, much benefit 
to my health. 

The first salmon I ever saw landed was when 
staying at Glen Urquhart, in Inverness-shire. My 
wife was a very expert fisherwoman ; she had lived in 
this part of Scotland, and had fished in a loch near by 
very often. Trout were abundant, but she had never 
caught a salmon in this water and did not expect 
one. We were out in a boat, and she fished 
away and got a few trout. Suddenly she exclaimed, 
"That was a fish !" and then explained to me that she- 
was certain a salmon had risen to her fly. Sure 
enough, after a few more casts she had one on, and in 
a short time there was a nice 8-lb. fish in the boat ! We 
had no gaff, not expecting a salmon, and had therefore 
to use a small landing net, which made the operation 
somewhat risky. She continued to cast, and in a short 
time hooked another, of about the same size. Later on 
she was fortunate enough to hook a third ! This was a 
bigger fish, and after one or two efforts to get him into 
the net we were so unlucky as to lose him ! The fish 
was partly in the net, but the line got fast on some part 
of it, and, giving a violent struggle, the fly came away 
and he was gone. However, we made a great sensation 
when we took our two fish up to the house. The next 



92 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

day a rare number of boats were out on the loch trying 
for salmon, but we heard of no luck, nor did we succeed 
in getting another fish. 

Having for thirty years spent my summer holidays 
in Scotland, fishing (and for twenty years shooting 
also), I may perhaps be forgiven for recording a few 
incidents which have attended the sport. On the 
Spean, a fine river flowing into the Lochy near 
Fort William, we had the top beat, and as the 
season wore on the big fish pushed up into the top 
water. Unfortunately we had to agree to change 
beats after a certain date if the tenants of the 
beat below desired us to do so. We had 
agreed to this when we took the water, as we 
paid only about half the amount charged to 
the people on the second beat. But it was rather 
annoying when the time came to have to " take the 
lower beat." In some seasons the tenants did not 
exercise their right ; but they did on one particular 
occasion that comes to my mind. (The head gillie 
was always very keen to get them to do so, as he 
attended them and not us ! ) So down we went, and a 
very exciting time we had, for it happened that the big 
fish had not gone up as the gillie anticipated, and my 
wife had wonderful sport, landing no less than five, the 
weights of which were as follows : 3O-lb., 26-lb., 24-lb., 
22-lb., and 12-lb. 

The sport kept us so late that the head gillie, who 
lived near our Lodge, got anxious, \vhether for our 
safety or about our luck I do not venture to say, and 
just as we had packed up and begun to walk home, he 
met us with a lantern. His face, when he saw our fish, 
was a real picture : his party had not landed one ! 

It was on this river that my wife landed a splendid 
43-lb. salmon. It was in October, and naturally the 
fish was not so good as it would have been some 



"WE'VE ONLY GINGER ALE" 93 

months earlier, but it was over four feet in length and 
twenty-six inches in girth. It was got from the bank, 
not from a boat, and took two and a-half hours to land. 
We had some delightful days on this fine river, and 
many friends came and stayed with us. I used to do a 
good deal of composing while my wife fished. She was 
never tired ; but I was, I am afraid, not always so keen 
as I ought to have been. It requires, however, a deal 
of patience to go on, as one sometimes does, for days, if 
not weeks, without any luck ! Yet I could always 
amuse myself by writing. One of my most successful 
part-songs, " Bold Turpin " (Sam Weller's song), was 
written by the shores of this river, and I also wrote words 
and music of a "Catch" to celebrate a catastrophe that 
happened to us. Jack Stainer (a son of Sir John) was 
staying with us, and at luncheon I asked him to pass 
the whisky flask. Awful to relate, it had been forgotten, 
and we had to put up with ginger-ale ! The " Catch " 
was the result, the play upon the word " Mill-dam " being 
the " Catch." I sent Sir John Stainer a copy, which 
amused him very much, his son writing to me : " My 
father is singing 'At the Mill-dam ' all day in the garden." 
I ought perhaps to explain that the pool called the 
Mill-dam Pool was where we used to lunch. The 
" Catch " is so contrived that the second syllable of 
" Mill-dam " comes after all the others have finished. 
"A FISHING IDYLL." 

(CATCH.) 

(Written at the Mill-dam pool, River Spean, August, 1889.) 
Come, let us go a-fishing, with rod and line and fly, 
Below us rolls the Spean, above 's Ben Nevis high. 
Take sandwiches for luncheon, likewise a prime cigar, 
Take whisky, too, and ginger-ale, and naught our mirth shall mar. 
We'll happy be, and jolly, without one care or wish, 
We'll luncheon at the Mill-dam, when we have caught our fish. 

Now, Stainer, hand the luncheon, why look so deuced pale ? 
By jove ! the whisky 's left behind we've only ginger-ale ! 



94 



A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 
A i ibrilAG IDYLL. 



CATCH FOR FOUR EQUAL VOICES. 



Andante. 

Fi^l~ 



J. F. BRIDGE. 



.Jjt f 



V^ 



^-p_*- 



1 P-?-E: 



_^Z^E 

33 



Come, let us go a - fish - ing with rod and line and fly, 



Be - 



Take sandwiches for luncheon, like -wise a prime ci -gar, 



Take 



5^E 



IS 







*=t 



ij~tt=3= jT^Tl* 

^jv-d* J HzESiE 

-*-* -*-*-. ^ jf 1 



We'll hap-py be and joi - ly with - out one care or wish, We'll 



Now, Stain - er, hand the lunch-eon, why look sodenced pale, so deuced 



=F 



- low us rolls the Spe - an, a-bove 's Ben Ne - vis high, 



whisky, too, and gin-ger ale, and nought our mirth shall mar, 







Be - 




luncheon at the Mill - dam. when we have caught our fish, at the 



pale? 



By Jove! the whis - ky 's left be-hind we've on - ly gin-ger 



* * 



v-y- 



- low us rolls the Spe- an, a - bove'sBenNe - vis high 




nought our mirth, nought our mirth . . . shall mar. 



P . r ^=H- 
*- r ' -^ 



f- 



:*-r*. 



Jh 



4 



Mill -dam, 



the Mill - dam, at the Mill - dam, 



ale, 



=?*=^] 
:p*:zzj 



gin - ger ale. 



n*is.i* -j-o- 

gin - ger ale. 



the Mill-dam. 

-ll 



35-^1 -q 
'-jT^- 



gin-ger ale. 



"SIT DOWN ON HIM" 95 

The most exciting adventure which I ever had in 
connection with fishing was on the Blackwater, a 
small river in Ross-shire. We were there for only two 
years, as the salmon fishing was very poor. But one 
day I went up to the top water, which was very rocky 
and had some nice pools. My little daughter (aged ten) 
was with me, and I was fishing for trout with a small 
trout-rod. I thought I would try a strange fly which 
had been given to me. It was a grasshopper, a very 
good imitation of the real thing. I made my cast 
standing between two very large boulders, being able to 
see only a few yards in front of me, but not down 
stream. After a cast or two there was a rush and a 
whirr of my reel, and I knew it was a salmon ! I played 
him very carefully, at last reeling him up quite close 
to the spot where I was standing. I had no gafT, and 
the net was much too small. There was nothing for it 
but to try and pull him up the steep shingle. Stepping 
back very slowly, I at last got him on to the shore, but 
was afraid to let the line slacken or he would certainly 
have slipped in. Suddenly it struck me I might use 
my little girl to secure the prize. She was attired in a 
long waterproof, which was dripping wet. " Sit down 
on him," I sang out to her, and promptly she did so. 
I dropped my rod, and secured the fish ! 

A most successful and exhilarating day's sport which 
I remember was one day on the Deveron. It was a 
blustery day in October, with rain at intervals. I went 
out with a friend, my wife saying she would follow 
us down to fish the pools after us, which she did with 
amazing success. My friend and I left the first pool 
without having had a rise, but as soon as we got to 
work in the pool below we heard my wife's well-known 
" Coo-ee," and hurried back to find her playing a fish. 
This happened eight times. I got only one small fish 
of 7$-lb M while the eight my wife caught weighed 



96 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 



24-lb., 20-lb., i8-lb., i;-Ub., ly-lb., i6^-lb., 7^-lb., and 
6^-lb., while if the river had not begun to rise I believe 
she would have got a dozen. No similar record has 
ever been made on the Deveron, so far as I can learn, 
and what added to our triumph was to hear afterwards 
that the people who fished the water next to us had 
gone home because the day was too bad ! But then 
salmon are not fair-weather fish. 

On the same river I had a narrow escape of a 
ducking, if not a worse fate, while gaffing a fish. A 
friend and I were fishing a somewhat deep pool with 
fairly high banks. I had fished it out without a rise, 
and my friend, who followed me down, had nearly done 
so with the same result. He said, " I don't believe 
there 's a fish in the river Pvegot him ! " A big fish had 
taken his fly as he spoke. 

My friend had been with us for three weeks, but had 
not caught a fish. As he was leaving the next day, we 
were naturally anxious for his success. I took the gaff 
which was only a small thing, such as one carries about 
with him and waited until the fish came near. This 
he did very soon, and of course was not at all " done " 
or ready for the gaff. However, I knelt down to 
make a shot at him as he passed, getting the gaff into 
him; but he was so strong I could do nothing with him. 
My left arm was round the stump of a tree, my 
right arm and leg being in the water. "I'm going 
in," I sang out, " but I won't leave go." My friend 
dropped his rod, grabbed me round the waist, and pulled 
me out, fish and all, on to the bank. It was a big fish 
just under 3o-lbs. 

The Spean is a somewhat dangerous river, as one has 
to wade out to many of the pools, particularly when the 
water is low. At such times the fly is not so much 
used as the worm, for fish can often be got in the deep 
runs with a worm when they will not rise to the fly. 



A CURIOUS CAPTURE 97 

Lord Abinger, who owned the fishing on the river, said 
he always enjoyed worm fishing as he regarded it as a 
prolonged strike ! This worm fishing had to be done 
with a considerable amount of lead attached to the line 
to sink it, and amongst the rocks the sinkers were 
continually being lost in fact a friend of mine said 
that one day the river would cease to flow and then 
the place could be let for a lead mine ! 

A favourite pool of ours was a very awkward place 
called the "crooked pool," where one was compelled 
always to be accompanied by the gillie, as the force of 
the water was very great. 

A sad accident occurred to a visitor one day on this 
river. A party, including some ladies, were fishing for 
trout over a salmon ladder. One of their number 
was standing on a rock, and leaning over to release the 
tackle of one of the ladies which had got hung up, 
he fell into the salmon ladder and was drowned before 
their eyes. I often wonder that more accidents do not 
happen in such a rocky and swift river. 

It is a wonderful sight to see fish jump up the falls. 
In a small stream leading out of our river there was a 
really fine fall, and frequently fish would fail in the 
jump and tumble back on to the rocks. Sometimes we 
could pick up a number of grilse about 5-lbs. to 6-lbs. in 
weight lying dead below the falls. But on such 
occasions there had been something unusual in the 
height of the river. 

One of my captures was rather original. Hooking 
a fish in a very long pool, he did not show 
himself, but kept on swimming up and down, and 
I followed, keeping a tight line. My wife kindly 
suggested that I had probably got a big eel on ! 
However, at last the fish appeared to be done, so I 
put the strain on him, while the gillie walked into the 
water with the gaff, but just as he was about to gaff him 

H 



98 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

he drew back with a curious gesture of astonishment 
I yelled at him, thinking I might lose my fish, and 
after a bit he gaffed him and pulled him out. The 
cause of the man's astonishment was then apparent 
The fish was hooked by the tail, so that when [ 
presented to the gillie what of course should have been 
the head, the topsy-turvy capture gave him rather a. 
shock ! Salmon often try to jump on the fly in order 
to drown it, and this was probably what the fish had. 
done, and in the process had fouled the hook 
with his tail. 

The midges in this valley of the Spean are awful, 
and sometimes the only way in which relief can be 
obtained is to light a fire on the bank of the river and. 
sit in the smoke, until perhaps a friendly puff of wind 
blows the pests away. But the wind can be a danger, 
and my wife once had what might have been a very 
serious accident when fishing in a boisterous gale. A 
gust caught the fly when it should have been returning 
to the river, and whirled it with great force straight 
into her face, where the sharp hook became fixed in 
her nostril. I tried to get it out, but found that this was 
impossible, as it was well over the barb. There was 
nothing for it but to send to Fort William for a 
doctor. The accident did not occasion much pain, but 
obviously it was very inconvenient. After a time a 
very stalwart old Highland doctor appeared. This 
was evidently not the first fly he had extracted, 
although perhaps he may not have seen another 
accident precisely of the same kind. He was very 
cheerful, my wife was very brave, and after a little 
skilful manipulation the hook was released without very 
much distress, and in the result without leaving a scar. 
People in the neighbourhood quickly heard of the 
accident, and anxious inquiries began to flow in, but 
I was glad to be able to say that there was really 



A LOST WAGER 99 

nothing the matter and my wife had been out 
again and landed another fish but not with the 
same fly. 

A story about my fishing must not be omitted ; it is in 
the nature of a confession. I had landed a fish at our 
first pool, and my wife and I differed in opinion as to its 
weight. Of course I thought it was a remarkably fine 
fish, and was prepared to maintain that it scaled a 
good deal more than she said it did. We sent it back 
to the lodge, but during the day resumed the discussion 
as to its weight, and I suggested a wager, which we 
agreed upon. It was dark when we reached home. 
During the day, with my mind on the wager, I had 
furtively concealed about me a few nice round pebbles 
and some lead sinkers. As soon as we got home I went 
into the larder to bring out the fish to be weighed, but 
before doing so carefully filled his mouth with the 
contents of my pocket ! In stuffing them in 1 caused my 
thumb to bleed on his remarkably big teeth, which 
served me right ! He was weighed on the hook of a 
common spring - balance, which being thrust into his 
mouth caused it to gape rather widely, whereupon my 
little son who was very interested in the wager and 
hoped I should not win espied the stones and lead, and 
called out, " Oh, mother, father 's put some stones and 
lead in his mouth." He there and then earned a tap on 
the head and I lost my bet ! 

Some thirteen years ago we moved to a place 
higher up the Deveron, and the charming Valley of 
Glass has been the scene of my holidays. 

It may interest some of my readers if I give a 
reproduction of a photograph of my Scotch home. As 
will be well understood by those familiar with the ways 
of cameras, the picture fails to suggest the fine upland 
sweep of the hill behind the house, which rolls away in 
great uncultivated tracts of moorland, rising in places 



ioo A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

to a thousand feet above sea level. Here and there are 
woods, while sheep and cattle roam at will. The river 
is about two hundred yards away. 

The fishing is not quite so good as in the lower 
reaches of the river, but the scenery is beautiful and we 
are in the midst of grouse moors. The Kirk is of 
unusual size. I have always enjoyed the simple Presby- 
terian service there, with its Psalms and paraphrases and 
hymns, and have been able to help to make the singing 
more effective by presenting a small Memorial Organ. 
I have not, however, undertaken to play except on 
special occasions, thinking it best to desert the organ- 
stool for a time, and take my seat in a pew. The 
place holds many happy recollections for me, in the 
earlier years more particularly by the friendship of the 
Minister, the Rev. Duncan Ross, now, alas, passed 
away. His was a particularly charming personality 
broadminded, and in every way the type of a real, good 
man. Full of humour and good stories, he delighted 
to score off his friends if he possibly could : and he 
did score off me most admirably on one occasion. We 
heard that the lady organist was ill, so before the service 
on Sunday I went to the Manse and asked to see the 
Minister. Staying with us was my friend Dr. Keeton, 
organist of Peterborough Cathedral, who accompanied 
me on my errand. When the Minister appeared, I said, 
" We hear your organist is ill, but if you like, Dr. Keeton 
and I will play." " It will be all right," I added. He 
looked at us with a merry twinkle in his eye, and said, 
" Oh ! yes, it will sure to be all right. We're no' very 
particular in Glass " ! 

The hymn-singing in the Kirk is very hearty, and 
I have enjoyed playing to this congregation. The 
selection is well-varied, generally an item from the old 
metrical Psalter, then one of the fine Paraphrases, and 
two or three numbers from the modern Hymn and 



HYMN-SINGING IN SCOTLAND 101 

Tune Book edited some years ago by Sir John 
Stainer. The Paraphrases in particular appeal to me, 
especially the beautiful one from Job iii., 17-20 : 

How still and peaceful is the grave, 

Where, life's vain tumults past, 
Th' appointed house by Heaven's decree 

Receives us all at last. 

There servants, masters, small and great 

Partake the same repose, 
And there in peace the ashes mix 

Of those who once were foes. 

This is always sung at the Old Madrigal Society's 
meetings when a member has died. It is adapted to 
music written by Dr. Tye in the i6th century. (This 
was originally written to a versified edition of the Acts 
of the Apostles.) Another Paraphrase, " O God of 
Bethel," was a great favourite of Dean Stanley's. 
But I cannot help saying that the congregation really 
seem to put greater life into some of the more modern 
hymns and tunes, and I am not much in sympathy 
with those who would have these removed from our 
own or any other Church hymn-book. Scotsmen 
of to-day have learned to like these hymns and 
tunes, and if you go into a farmer's house you will 
frequently see an American organ or a pianoforte with 
a hymn-book on it. In the old days, when there 
was no instrument in the Kirk and the Precentor 
set the tunes, only the most simple melodies were 
sung, and always to the old Psalms. As in our own 
Communion, the custom of hymn-singing in Church 
is greatly valued in Scotland. Yet it is not so very 
long ago that the Church of England really neglected 
this great help to devotion. Prayers and sermons 
are all very well, but uplifting Praise is as good as 
either in my opinion. 



102 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

In connection with this subject I may record that 
when I came to the Abbey no hymn found a place in 
either morning or afternoon services, even on Sundays ! 
It was only at the special evening service in the Nave 
that they were, to a small extent, admitted. People 
seemed to think a hymn-tune was beneath the dignity 
of an Abbey service, and I remember Turle saying 
to me, when they were introduced, " I thought I was in 
a Parish Church ! " 

I advocated their introduction, and after a time (with 
the sanction of Dean Bradley) edited a Book of 
Hymns and Tunes for the Abbey (in conjunction with 
Dr. Troutbeck, who was also an ardent advocate of this 
innovation in the services). Hymn-singing is now a real 
feature in the Abbey services, and for myself I candidly 
confess I enjoy playing a good tune to a fine hymn 
more than accompanying an anthem. 

To return to Glass : the Rev. Duncan Ross once told 
me a good story of his early days there. At that time 
there was some little illicit whisky-making in the remote, 
outlying parts of the parish. One old gamekeeper 
was noted for it. His croft was very isolated. The 
Minister made it a rule to go round his parish at certain 
times, and look up the people. In accordance with this 
practice he one day called at the dwelling of the keeper. 
It was snowing, and he rode on a pony, closely muffled 
up and not easily recognised. He knocked at the door 
for a considerable time, and at last a shaggy head 
appeared at one of the windows, looking with some 
surprise at the visitor. The Minister called out, and, 
speedily making himself known, was admitted at 
once. While talking together, Mr. Ross noticed a 
particular smell, but said nothing. After a while he 
was, as usual, invited to take a dram, and some very 
strong and newly-distilled mountain dew was tendered 
him ! After leaving, he continued his round to call upon 



THE ELDER AND THE WHISKY 103 

another man, who was not a member of the Parish 
Church but was an Elder of the Free Church. He 
found the Elder in, and they had a serious talk. The 
Elder did not think very well of the religious tone of 
the congregation of the Parish Church, and hoped the 
young Minister would see to this. As the Minister got 
up to go, the Elder pressed him to take something to 
keep out the cold, producing some liquor of the same 
type as that proffered by the keeper. The Minister 
looked at it and then, with a smile, said " I think I know 
where you got this." The Elder was a little taken 
-aback, and said, looking hard at the parson, " Did he 
tell ye ? " Mr. Ross shook his head. " Ah ! " said the 
Elder, " an' he didna' tell ye that I gaed oot at the 
back window as ye rappit at the door ! Mon, we 
thought it was the Gauger." 

Not only did Mr. Ross tell good stories himself, but 
he had some excellent Scotsmen constantly staying at 
the Manse, whom I was really pleased to meet. The 
Valley of Glass was the birthplace of the well-known 
Greek scholar, Sir William Geddes, late Principal of 
the University of Aberdeen. The Geddes family have 
been in the valley for many years, and Sir William 
began his education in the Parish School. There is, 
therefore, a close bond between Glass and the Univer- 
sity, and at the Manse I met many of the Professors 
and heard many good stories. One bearing upon the 
subject of " music " and its use in disease I think I 
must relate. I am aware that I cannot tell it as the 
Professor told it, but I will do my best. 

A poor Highland soldier was ill in hospital at Malta, 
and was expected to die. The surgeon asked the sister 
on duty how the man was, and was told he could not 
possibly recover, but, continued she, " One thing he 
asks before he dies, he would like to hear the pipes 
again." " Oh," said the surgeon, " I'm going away 



104 

for the day, but send to the barracks and ask the 
Colonel if he will detail a piper to come and give him a 
tune." At night, when he returned, he sent for the 
sister and asked if the piper had been. " Oh, yes," she 
replied, " he has, and he played up and down the 
corridor fine." " And how is the poor chap ? " said the 
officer. " He 's getting better," was the unexpected 
answer. -" What ? " exclaimed the medico, " why, it 's a 
miracle ! " " Yes," said the sister, " it is, indeed, but 
I'm sorry to tell you all the rest of the patients 
are dead ! " 

The parish of Glass is in the centre of the Gordon 
Country, and has contributed many brave men to the 
Gordon Highlanders and other regiments. In the old 
burial ground called Wallakirk, a most picturesque and 
peaceful spot, among the hills and close to the river, 
there is a stone : 

In Memory of 

JAMES GAULD 

Nether Demeath 

who died on 
the 2yth December 1867 

aged 77 years. 

On the i gth May 1812 while 

serving as a private in the 

92nd Gordon Highlanders 

He was specially mentioned 

for gallant conduct at 

the capture of the 

fortified post and 

pontoon bridge on the 

River Tagus at Almaraz 

The bridge was cut away 

by the enemy and Gauld 

swam to the opposite side 

brought back the boats and 

thus secured the bridge. 



Erected by relatives. 



THE VISITING EXAMINERS 105 

It recalls a brave deed in the Peninsular War by a 
soldier named Gauld, one of a family which has lived 
long in the Glen. It is a story which I believe is 
well-known in military history. 

In these days such a deed would doubtless have been 
awarded the Victoria Cross, but I believe it was only 
when the hero was old that a pension was granted him 
through the efforts of a distinguished officer who, 
coming as a guest to one of the neighbouring lodges, 
happened to hear the local story. During the recent 
great war many from Glass have been gathered with the 
honoured dead, while the Military Cross and other 
decorations are to be seen on the breasts of numerous 
sons of the Valley. 

The Deveron rises in the hills known as the Cabrach 
District, and many a salmon is taken out of the upper 
reaches of the river sometimes, it is whispered, not 
altogether fairly. In fact, there is a saying that if a 
salmon once gets up to the Cabrach it never returns! 

The love of sport is of course very widespread, and 
to those whose occupation lies in such remote districts 
it is a real diversion. A number of stories of devoted 
anglers are current, and I may give one as a good 
example of the fascination exercised by the river. The 
schoolmaster of a very secluded parish in these upper 
waters was accustomed to fish with two gentlemen from 
a neighbouring town whenever they could spare a day. 
He was very expert, knowing all the pools and the best 
flies, so that they always made a point of getting his 
company and assistance, generally choosing a time 
when the school was closed. But on one occasion they 
made a mistake, and were much disappointed to hear 
from the Dominie that he was tied to the school for 
that day. He was sorry, so were they, but after a while 
he said : " I think it can be managed if ye'll do as 
I tell ye." They hastened to say they would do 



io6 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

anything in reason, if he could suggest a way. " Weel," 
said he, "Ye maun com' to th' school i' the morn and do 
a wee bit examination wark," going on to explain that 
Mr. S - was to take the upper classes in Scripture, 
and his friend the lower classes in general knowledge. 
He added that he would prepare a few questions for 
them to put to the children. The two anglers (and 
counterfeit Inspectors) agreed, and in due course held 
the examination. At the end of it there was a short 
and private consultation with the schoolmaster, who 
then announced to the boys that the examination 
had given great satisfaction to the Inspectors, who, 
as was usual in such cases, asked for a holiday for the 
school for the rest of the day. The boys took leave of 
the genial Inspectors with an ovation of cheering, and 
departed to recount to their parents the success of 
the examination, while the "Inspectors" and their 
companion made the best of their way to the river and 
spent a happy day with a different rod from the 
pedagogic ferule. 



CHAPTER VIII. 

A Grouse Drive Deer Stalking Sir George Martin and the 
Deer Edward Silas and the " Amorous Goat " - Railway 
Incidents Slatin Pasha Debates in the House of Commons 
A Nocturne. 

OF late years I have enjoyed a good deal of grouse 
driving, as there are no less than six moors within easy 
reach of my house, and the residents in the various 
lodges are very hospitable. Some of them own the 
lodges and moors, but other shootings are taken by 
sportsmen by the year. In my first year in the Valley 

I was invited to a drive by Colonel , who rented 

a large moor that year. In the course of the morning 
my "butt" turned out to be the top one, involving a 
long and steep climb. My gun and cartridges were 
carried by the keeper, and in due time we arrived at the 
spot rather blown by the steep ascent. The "butt" was 
not of the ordinary type, built up with turf, but was 
excavated, and really below ground level. I sat down, 
so did my man, and carelessly enough I began to talk 
to him, forgetting that the birds would probably come 
over the hill just above me without warning which sure 
enough they did ! All in a moment the air seemed full 
of a cloud of birds, densely packed together and moving 
with tremendous velocity just over our heads. Of 
course they were gone in a moment, and of course 
without a shot from me. I looked at Alec (the keeper) 
and thought of the Colonel, and what he would say. 
" Mind, Alec," I said, "the birds went round the hill." 
" Oh, yes, Sir," he said, " they went round the hill, sure 
enough." It turned out as I expected. The Colonel 



io8 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

asked if we did not see a big pack come over the hill- 
top, and we said, " Certainly, and they went round the 
hill." I was really afraid to tell the whole truth ! Just 
recently I have made a clean breast of it to the Colonel, 
and think he forgave me. 

Another incident will, I fear, give the impression of my 
not being a keen sportsman, but accidents will happen. 
I was staying with a friend who rented a large moor, 
and was accompanied in my " butt " by a young and 
charming lady. I am afraid we chatted a good deal, 
and my bag was not what it ought to have been. 
There was another lady in the next " butt," who chaffed 
me unmercifully concerning my bag, and made the 
most of the fact that she had both " seen and heard " us 
talking. I was asked to write " something " in my 
companion's book that evening, as she was leaving the 
next day, so I scribbled the following : 

Out shooting one day, the astute Mrs. Palmer 
Espied in my grouse butt a sweet little charmer ; 
I shot very badly she thus did deride, 
" One Miss in a butt causes many outside ! " 

The last grouse story I shall venture upon was not 
my own experience but that of a friend. He was at a 
drive when the host at starting gave the usual direction, 
" No grey hens, please." The birds came very thick at 
one drive, and my friend unfortunately dropped a grey 
hen ! In the next " butt " the sportsman was accom- 
panied by his wife, who was a very alert and expeditious 
retriever, sallying out directly the drive was over and 
picking up all the birds she could (whether shot by her 
husband or anyone else !) to add to his bag. My friend 
was very artful, and took some time to unload his gun, 
and look for his birds. This gave the lady-retriever a 
good start, when she did what my friend wanted her to 
do took the grey hen and added the prize to her 
husband's birds. At lunch time, when the birds were 



DEER-STALKING 109 

put out on the heather and counted, the host exclaimed, 
" Hullo ! who the deuce shot the grey hen ? " After a 
moment the unfortunate owner of the retriever shyly 
said, " I am afraid I was the culprit " ! The host said 
nothing, nor did my friend ! 

I have never done any deer-stalking, but had one 
little experience of the royal sport when staying near 
Killarney. My host was a great sportsman, and got 
many fine deer on the Muckross estate. He was kind 
enough to let me accompany him one day, and we (my 
host, the stalker, and myself) had a big climb up one 
of the mountains, at last arriving at a point where 
we lay down while the stalker took a look through his 
glass. He spotted a stag a little below us and within 
shot. Needless to say we had to keep very quiet and 
motionless, but much whispering took place between 
the stalker and my host as to the number of points the 
beast showed. It was a time of considerable anxiety 
to me, for I had a cold and felt an irresistible desire to 
sneeze ! I knew what that would probably mean the 
alarm of the quarry and some bad words from my 
host. I controlled myself as long as possible, till at 
last, as the sneeze would come, I seized my nose, buried 
my head in the heather, and gave a sort of bark. The 
effect on my host and the stalker was electrical. They 
both jumped up in horror, looking behind them, and 
fell down again as quickly, the stalker saying, " Dashed 
if I didn't think it was a hind." I whispered my most 
humble apologies, and am bound to say they were 
most tolerant of my accident. After a few minutes the 
stalker peeped over the knoll on which we were lying 
and found the stag still there ! I was much relieved, 
and am very glad to say the sportsman got him soon 
after. I think my bark was a really good imitation of 
a hind. At any rate it took in both my friends and 
the stag ! 



no A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Another little episode in connection with deer took 
place when I was out shooting with a friend near Spean 
Bridge. Among the guests was the late Sir George 
Martin, of St. Paul's, who was a keen sportsman and a 
good shot. We were walking in line over the heather, 
shooting grouse, hares, &c., and of course not thinking 
of deer. I was at one end of the line and Sir George 
at the other, when suddenly there was a commotion 
and I saw a fine stag going up the hillside for all he 
was worth. He stopped for a moment to look at us, 
and then disappeared. The beast had evidently been 
asleep in the heather and we had disturbed him. 
It was not a deer forest, and no doubt he was 
travelling from LochiePs forest of Achnacarry to 
Lord Abinger's. I remember saying to Sir George 
that it was not likely that the organists of St. Paul's 
and Westminster had ever walked in line after game 
until that day. 

Martin's host was a devoted amateur musician, 
and played the English concertina admirably. He 
constantly had old Edward Silas to stay with him, 
Silas composing many charming duets for pianoforte 
and concertina. Very pleasant were the evenings we 
spent at this lodge after our sport, and besides the 
really serious music old Silas was usually prevailed 
upon to give us an illustration of a farmyard. His 
imitations of the various animals, including what he 
called an " Amorous goat," were side-splitting. Poo r 
Silas hardly dared to come out on the heather, as the 
midges always took a great fancy to him. He used an 
anti-midge powder that perhaps was not efficient ; but 
certainly it was effective, in its way, for it made his 
forehead look rather like the crust of a well-sugared tart ! 

Railway travelling has played its part as an accessory 
in my pilgrimage. Many and frequent have been some 
of my journeys, yet often have they been enlivened by 



"HE'S NOT AT ST. PAUL'S" in 

incidents that arose by the way. One such, bearing 
upon my reputation as a fisherman, which befell me 
during a short journey, may perhaps be recounted. 
Another man was in the carriage, and, as we smoked 
our cigars, we got into conversation. I had noticed the 
large increase of nursery gardens in the district through 
which we were passing, and said how the development 
evidenced the great impetus that had taken place in 
the love for gardening. My fellow-traveller agreed, 
remarking that he had taken it up a good deal 
himself, so as rather to give up his pursuit of fishing. 
I owned to liking it very much, and added that I had a 
garden in Scotland, where also near by I did some 
fishing. 

"What river are you on?" "The Deveron, 1 ' I 
replied. " Oh ! " said he, "I know the Deveron well. 
Whereabouts are you?" "Well," I said, "We are 
now above Huntly, but used to be near Rothiemay." 
" Near Rothiemay ? You mean Cornie Haugh ? I 
know it well." Then, after a pause, he continued, 
" I'll tell you who used to have that." (I listened 
with interest.) " That old music chap at St. Paul's. 
He 's dead now" " No, he isn't," I retorted, " he 's here, 
and he 's not at St. Paul's, he 's at Westminster." The 
effect on my companion cannot be described. He 
started up with the exclamation, " What a fool I am 
of course I meant you, but only think what a fool 
I was to talk like that," and so on, and so on. 

I told this story to Sir Charles Swinfen Eady (now 
Master of the Rolls) when travelling the same route 
with him a short time afterwards, and he seldom meets 
me at the Senate of the University of London without 
a reference to " that old music chap at St. Paul's." 

Another railway story not this time to do with 
fishing may be given as a warning. Soon after my 
marriage in 1914, my wife and I were invited to a 



ii2 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

delightful day on a splendid liner which took a large 
party from Southampton down the Solent. There was 
a special train from Waterloo, and we had as fellow- 
occupants of our carriage an old gentleman and his 
wife. We were all presented with a book containing 
the names of the numerous guests, and were studying 
the lists with some interest. Suddenly the lady said to 
her husband, " Oh, I see Sir Frederick Bridge and 
his young wife are here. I should so like to meet them." 
Now, what was to be done ? There we were with our 
unknown fellow-guests, shut up for upwards of an hour. 
What else might be said about us ? Was I to run the 
risk of hearing things which might make it rather 
trying for us and our companions ? So I turned at 
once to the lady, and said, " That is not very difficult, 
for / am Sir Frederick Bridge." The astonishment of 
the lady was great. " But you are not Sir Frederick," 
she said. " Oh, yes, I am," I replied, " and this is my 
' young wife '." It turned out that the lady knew many 
of my wife's people, and we spent much time on board 
together, with many a pleasant joke about the scene in 
the railway carriage. We have been close and intimate 
friends ever since. 

As I write, the news of the Armistice (November nth, 
1918) prompts a story of deeper interest. The incident 
occurred while travelling with a friend from Aberdeen 
to Edinburgh. There was no dining-car on the train, 
and when the luncheon hour arrived, the attendant 
adjusted in our compartment one of the temporary 
tables carried for such occasions, and designed for four. 
Presently two gentlemen joined us. It was not very 
long before we discovered that one was none other 
than Slatin Pasha, who, it will be remembered, was 
captured and kept in slavery by the Mahdists. 
He was rescued from this miserable condition 
in 1884, and later was appointed British Inspector 




THE AUTHOR'S SCOTCH HOME. 
CAIRNBORRCHV LODGE, GLASS, ABERDEEN-SHIRK. 



FHREE EX-ORGANISTS OF MANCHESTER CATHEDRAL. 




SLATIN PASHA 113 

of the Soudan. The other traveller, his companion, 
was a very distinguished English officer. We soon got 
upon very friendly terms (I had given Slatin Pasha a 
tonic from my whisky flask, as he complained of a fearful 
cold), and on passing the Forth Bridge we discussed 
the recent Naval manoeuvres. If I remember, these 
had included a supposed attack of an enemy fleet from 
the North. All apparently went well for the defence, 
and the enemy was driven off. But report said that 
one of his submarines managed to get into the Firth of 
Forth, and in mimic warfare torpedoed some of our 
battleships. Such was the story current ; and it was 
added that the Admiralty had kept the matter quiet 
but were rather disturbed about it. 

The incident made a great impression on me. I do 
not remember that Slatin Pasha said much ; but having 
in mind that when war broke out the name of this 
Austrian-born officer along with those of other enemy 
aliens was removed from the lists of British Orders 
of Knighthood, one wonders whether he may not have 
been consoled by remembering that he had a bit of 
useful and very significant information which even the 
gods could not take from him. 

Among my greatest pleasures that frequently 
afforded real relief from the anxieties of Abbey work, 
have been my opportunities for attending the debates 
in the House of Commons. From boyhood I 
have taken a great interest in politics and in 
current events. Indeed I remember now with some 
sorrow the many hours spent during the American 
Civil War in particular in reading the daily papers. 
There was a certain quiet little reading-room up a 
little alley in the streets of Rochester, in which the 
chief daily papers could be seen. This old room was a 
delightfully quaint place, close under the wall of the 
Deanery garden. The hours I spent there, instead of 



ii4 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

practising the piano . . . ! Yet it was not all wasted 
time. I read, and learned, and if I had practised the 
piano more diligently instead of reading the daily papers, 
possibly I should not have done quite as well in the 
world as ultimately I succeeded in doing. But it must 
not be supposed that this is a general advocacy of such 
a curriculum. A cultivated interest in passing events, 
however, made me value the occasions when later I 
came to hear the great men in the counsels of the 
Nation. 

Fortunately for me, the senior chorister at the Abbey 
when I took office was the son of one of the officials in 
the House of Commons, whose post it was to sit in the 
big chair in the Lobby, at the actual entrance to the 
Chamber, to see, I suppose, that only Members were 
admitted. I used to send in my card from the outer 
Lobby, and was generally passed in to my friend 
the door-keeper. Almost without exception he was 
able to get me admitted into the Strangers' Gallery, 
from whence one looked down upon many interesting 
scenes, and heard those masters of debate, Parnell, 
Gladstone, Disraeli, Goschen, Sir William Harcourt, 
and others. I was in the House on the last night that 
Disraeli was present. 

Altogether these were interesting experiences for 
which I am very grateful to the friend whose kindness 
made them possible. By-the-by, admission to the 
House of Commons debates is also a traditional privilege 
of the boys of Westminster School, a privilege which, I 
believe, they have at all times valued and turned to 
good account. 

I have enjoyed the friendship of many generations of 
the boys of the famous Westminster School. Among 
those who were in the School when I went to the 
Abbey was the present Dean of Christ Church, Dr. 
T. B. Strong. He was very musical, and I gave him 



A NOCTURNE 115 

organ lessons. Another was Mr. H. Bertram Cox, 
C.B., now solicitor to the Board of Inland Revenue. 
He also was musical, and these two were constantly 
in the organ-loft. When they went up to Oxford 
they corresponded with me very frequently, and were 
particularly kind and sympathetic at a time of great 
domestic sorrow. Curiously enough, both were able to 
suggest to me subjects for musical treatment, which I 
adopted for Festival works. Dr. Strong's prompting 
was the dramatic episode of " Callirhoe," told by 
Pausanius, and Mr. Cox directed my attention to 
Gladstone's Latin version of Toplady's " Rock of 
Ages." Both works were produced at Birmingham. 

I have gladly welcomed the boys to the organ-loft, 
and always found in them good specimens of 
the English public school boy. As such they 
sometimes played pranks in their own domain, and 
one habit, which I fancy is still carried on, though 
not very frequently, was to climb out of their 
dormitory window and over my house for a midnight 
prowl on the School roof, and even on to the Abbey. 
There was no particular harm in it, but on one occasion 
it alarmed my servants, so, along with a friend who 
was sitting and smoking a late pipe with me, we 
mounted on to the roof of the School just in time to 
see some distant figures descending a ladder on to the 
roof of a lower building. It was after midnight, and 
dark. We could not see the boys below, but could 
hear them whispering. My friend went and fetched a 
bucket of water, and after a bit we managed to empty 
it over the runaways ! This made a great commotion, 
and at that moment the window of the Precentor 
opened, and he demanded to know what the boys were 
about. " Talking to Dr. Bridge," was the ready reply 
from below. This astonished him, and he called to me 
to ask what / was about ! I explained as well as I 



n6 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

could, and he shut the window. The truants then 
came up the ladder, when the older boys (there were 
five or six) in response to a request for their names at 
once complied, but asked me to let the younger ones off. 
" Of course," I said, " I shall have to report this." 
They went back over the roofs to their dormitory, and 
we went to bed. The next day two of them called to 
say the Master wished them to apologise for the 
trouble they had given me. " But," I said, "how does 
he know ? I have lodged no complaint, and did not in 
fact intend to report you ! " " Oh ! no, Sir," said one, 
" it was Flood Jones who boxed us " (Flood Jones was 
the Precentor). It seemed that he had gone and called 
up the Master while the boys were talking to me, and 
when the poor miscreants climbed through their dormi- 
tory window, the Master welcomed them below ! I 
was told that not long afterwards the episode was set 
as a subject for Latin epigrams. 



CHAPTER IX. 

Lord Tennyson's " The Goose " Presentation of the Musicians' 
Company's Medal to H.R.H. The Prince of Wales (Edward 
VII.) Bach's "Christmas Oratorio" Music-makings at the 
Worcester Festival Festival Compositions Grieg and Dvorak 
at the Birmingham Festival Visit to Gounod, at Paris 
Processional effect in Notre Dame. 

A VERY interesting experience which came to me in 
my early years at the Abbey was the opportunity of 
meeting Lord Tennyson. As already mentioned, 
when living at Windsor I had made a musical 
setting of " Christmas Bells," a poem from " In 
Memoriam," and this being sung in the Abbey at 
Christmas-time had attracted the attention of a friend 
of Lord Tennyson, Mr. Baillie-Hamilton. He had also 
heard privately a performance of a setting of mine of 
Tennyson's humorous poem, "The Goose." Through 
Mr. Baillie-Hamilton's introduction, I got to know the 
Hon. Hallam Tennyson, and it was decided that the two 
settings should be performed at an evening party at the 
house of Lord Tennyson in Eaton Square. I took a 
portion of the Abbey choir with me, and we sang these 
two compositions before a large company. "The Goose," 
with its humorous words, and, I think, fairly humorous 
music, seemed to please the audience very much. 
Indeed, I know it gave satisfaction to the Poet in one 
point. There is a verse in the poem describing the old 
owner of the goose getting prosperous with the results 
of her poultry-keeping, and the lines run : 

And feeding high and living soft 
Grew plump and able-bodied, 

Until the grave churchwarden doffed, 
The parson smirked and nodded. 



n8 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

This is set in a mock sentimental way, and it produced 
considerable merriment, the Poet saying in my hearing, 
evidently with some satisfaction, " That 's the poem the 
critics said showed I had no sense of humour." It 
seemed to me that he had for the first time been quite 
easy in his mind on this subject. Another observation 
which I must record also came from the Poet in 
connection with this song. Mr. Frederick Locker, who 
was one of the guests, and himself a poet of no mean 
order, congratulated me before Tennyson on the way 
in which I had set the words, saying : " I hope that 
your name will go down to posterity associated with 
the poem and its author." " In fact," added Tennyson, 
" the current of my poetry will be Bridged. 11 

I was proud to have my name thus whimsically 
punned upon by the Poet- Laureate. 

In 1878 I became a member of the ancient City 
Guild, the Worshipful Company of Musicians, 
at the same time as Sir John Stainer and 
John Hullah. There was not much life in the old 
Company in those days, and it really did not do 
anything for music. But I was able to proffer a few 
suggestions which perhaps helped to start it on its 
present great and beneficent career of service to 
Music and musicians. I became Master of the 
Company in 1892, and had the honour of 
presenting the Gold Medal of the Company to 
H.R.H. The Prince of Wales (afterwards King 
Edward VII.), as a humble recognition of his services 
in the cause of Music, notably in the establishment 
of the Royal College. 

The interesting ceremony of presentation took place 
at Marlborough House, when His Royal Highness 
received the Worshipful Master of the Company 
(myself), the Junior Warden (Sir John Stainer), Mr. 
Alfred H. Littleton, Mr. Otto Goldschmidt, and other 



MUSICIANS' COMPANY'S MEDAL ug 

Members of the Court. The Clerk read the following 
Resolution, which had been unanimously adopted at a 
meeting of the Court: 

" That the Worshipful Company of Musicians, in 
order to express its deep appreciation of the untiring 
interest shown by His Royal Highness the Prince 
of Wales in the progress of the art of music in 
this country, which has resulted in the successful 
foundation of the Royal College of Music with its 
liberal endowments in aid of promising talent, 
respectfully begs His Royal Highness to accept the 
Gold Medal struck by the Company for the purpose 
of encouraging music and musicians. The Company 
cannot but feel that should His Royal Highness 
graciously become the first recipient of their offering 
he would not only confer an honour on them, but 
would give a prestige and value to their Medal which 
will greatly enhance its value to future holders." 

His Royal Highness in reply said that he wished to 
return his " thanks for the kind words of the Resolution, 
and for the gift of the very handsome Medal." He 
went on to express his best wishes for the spread and 
development of musical education and the art of music 
in this country, and added that he was very much 
gratified by the recognition which his efforts had 
received at the hands of the ancient and interesting 
Company of Musicians-. 

The Medal, designed by Mr. C. B. Birch, A.R.A., 
bears on its face a representation of St. Cecilia, the 
patron saint of music, and on the reverse the motto 
"Harmony," with the arms of the Company. 

I was also one of a deputation of the Court in 1905 
to present the Honorary Freedom of the Company to 
H.R.H. Prince Christian, in recognition of his services to 
Music as Chairman of the Council of the Royal College. 



120 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

The Company is to-day most active in its furtherance 
of everything for the good of the Art, founding many 
scholarships and awarding medals to the principal 
London Musical Colleges and to the Naval and Military 
schools of music. It also offered a valuable prize for 
the composition of a March in honour of the Coronation 
of King Edward, which was won by Mr. Percy Godfrey, 
and has instituted many other prizes too numerous 
to mention. The March was performed at the 
Coronation under my direction, and a sum of ^866 
derived from the sale of copies was subsequently 
contributed to King Edward's Hospital Fund. 

Perhaps the most notable step in encouraging native 
composers was taken by Mr. W. W. Cobbett, a member 
of the Company, in 1905, when he organized what 
proved to be the first of a series of competitions that 
have been the means of adding to English chamber 
music many works of undoubted charm and merit. As 
the outcome of a letter that he addressed to the Master 
of the Company, a committee was formed, and a 
circular issued inviting short works in that most difficult 
of all forms, the string quartet. It is interesting to 
recall that this circular marked the first appearance in 
the world of music of the word " Phantasy " the 
modern analogue of the old English " Fancy." The 
response to these competitions has been highly 
encouraging. 

An energetic member of the Company who lent 
valuable assistance in the allocation of its awards and 
scholarships was the late T. Lea Southgate. For 
much devoted work in the cause of music his name 
deserves to be remembered by the members with honour. 

Canon Duckworth was the honorary chaplain to the 
Company, and has been succeeded in this office by the 
Ven. Archdeacon Pearce, Litt. D., Canon of West- 
minster, now Bishop of Worcester. 



A FINE ANTHEM OF WESLEY'S 121 

In January, 1879, we gave a performance at 
the Abbey of Bach's " Christmas Oratorio." The 
Consecration of Dr. Lightfoot as Bishop of Durham, 
and the funerals of Lord Lawrence and of Sir 
Rowland Hill took place this year. 

In 1880 we again performed Bach's " Christmas 
Oratorio," and " Elijah." For the latter occasion I 
ought to say the expenses of the band were paid by 
the Dean out of his own pocket. In 1881 occurred 
the death of Dean Stanley. From previous pages it 
will have been seen that I was not always happy in my 
dealings with the Dean concerning choir matters, 
yet would not wish it to be inferred that anything 
was lacking in my appreciation of his great personality. 
He had a burning desire to make the Abbey loved and 
used by the people. But his abounding zeal seemed to 
lose its vitality when death removed the sweet influence 
of his wife, Lady Augusta I have already said 
what her departure was to the whole body of those 
living in the Cloisters. We had a great funeral service 
for the Dean, who was laid to rest by the side of his 
wife in Henry VII. 's Chapel, the Prince of Wales and 
Prince Christian being present. 

The picture that I refer to in my remarks upon the 
Purcell Celebration (see page 159) was given to me as a 
memento of the Dean. 

Dean Bradley was Dean Stanley's successor, being 
installed on November ist of the same year. 

Another notable event in 1881 was the funeral of 
George Edmund Street, the architect, for which 
ceremony I was able to suggest a very appropriate 
anthem, which at that time was but little known. 
This anthem was written by Dr. Wesley on the death 
of the Prince Consort, an event of which I retained 
a perfect recollection. It commenced, " All go to 
one place," and the penultimate verse is particularly 



122 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

appropriate to an architect : " For we know that if our 
earthly house were dissolved, we have a building of God; 
a house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens." 

In 1 88 1 I began to attend some of the great Musical 
Festivals, going to Worcester as the guest of the 
Dean, Lord Alwyne Compton ; also undertaking the 
onerous task of writing an account of the proceedings 
for the Press, a tiresome and fatiguing duty which I 
never tried to do again. But it was a very pleasant 
time. One of my fellow guests was Dr. Stone, a well- 
known amateur who played the contra-fagotto* at the 
Festival, and we made a good deal of music at the 
Deanery. Dr. Stone's instrument was an enormous 
affair (Santley once told him that it resembled the 
stand-pipe at Chelsea Waterworks!). We arranged a 
duet for contra-fagotto and piano, the theme being that of 
the well-known round, " Three blind mice." Stone played 
the tune at an incredible depth, and my part was to 
demonstrate the scamperings of the mice. The com- 
position had a great success. It was never printed, 
nor do I think there is any record of its performance in 
the annals of the Festival. 

I was asked to contribute a work to the succeeding 
Worcester Festival (in 1884), and set " The Song of 
St. Francis of Assisi," the English translation by 
my old friend Mrs. Oliphant. I have already spoken 
of this poem in reference to my life at Windsor. 
The following year (1885) I was gratified at 
finding a place in the Birmingham Festival. For 
this meeting I set Mr. Gladstone's Latin translation 
of Toplady's hymn, " Rock of Ages." Afterwards 
we performed it at the Abbey, Mr. Gladstone himself 
being present. He wrote me a very kind and 
appreciative letter, and was good enough to allow 

* This instrument is used by Haydn in his oratorio " The Creation " to 
imitate the " cheerful roaring of the tawny lion." 



V f 



DVORAK'S "ST. LUDMILLA" 123 

me to dedicate my work to him, saying he " cordially 
wished it success." 

It was at the Birmingham Festival that I met both 
Grieg and Dvorak. Grieg was rather a terror to the 
orchestra at the London rehearsals. Extremely 
fastidious, and demanding the most minute attention to 
the nuances in his music, he kept the band hard at it for 
a very long time, when he had finished appearing a 
complete wreck from his exertions. He was a very 
fragile-looking man, and died rather prematurely. 

Dvorak was a man of different build ; also he had 
much natural simplicity. I remember a remark he made 
which serves to sustain this impression. During the 
Festival week a large party was entertained at 
luncheon at the house of Mr. G. Hope Johnstone, 
who was a member of the Festival Committee. 
It came on to rain rather heavily, at which most 
of us were inclined to be sorry. But Dvorak turned 
animatedly to Mr. Alfred Littleton who sat between 
Dvorak and myself and made a remark in German, 
which I did not understand, but which seemed to 
amuse Mr. Littleton very much. I asked him later 
what it was, when it appeared the composer expressed 
his delight at seeing the rain, saying it would be 
good for the potatoes in his garden at home. Next 
day I travelled up to London with Dvorak. He 
was somewhat disappointed with the reception of his 
work, and I did my best to cheer him up. But it 
was a difficult task, for, to tell the truth, the work was 
a failure. It was his oratorio " St. Ludmilla," in which 
the composer made the mistake of writing music that 
he thought would appeal to English folk, rather than 
giving rein to his own genius as he had done in his 
noble " Stabat Mater." "St. Ludmilla" was a copy, 
to a great extent, of Handel's style, and did not 
reflect the real genius of Dvorak. 



i2 4 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

On April 27th, 1882, the funeral of Charles Darwin 
took place in the Abbey. It seemed to me the ordinary 
funeral anthems were hardly appropriate to Darwin, 
so I ventured to suggest the words which I afterwards 
set to music (Proverbs iii., 13, 15, 16, 17), " Happy is 
the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth 
understanding. She is more precious than rubies, and 
all the things thou canst desire are not to be compared 
unto her. Length of days is in her right hand, and in 
her left hand riches and honour. Her ways are ways 
of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace." This 
anthem was beautifully sung by the choir, and 
Canon Prothero called to congratulate me on its 
success immediately after the service. 

In this year my predecessor died, in the eighty-first 
year of his age. He had been appointed to the joint 
offices of Organist and Master of the Choristers as 
successor to Mr. Greatorex, F.R.S., on September ist, 
1831, by Dean Ireland, thus having held his 
appointment for over fifty years. Turle was a most 
amiable man, and although his contributions to Church 
music were not extensive, in one domain he may be 
said to be supreme, that of the number and beauty 
of his chants. 

In 1883 we gave a performance in the Abbey 
of Gounod's " Redemption," in aid of Westminster 
Hospital. In connection with this event I called on 
the composer in Paris a month or two before it was 
announced to take place, who proved very gracious, but 
seemed somewhat anxious as to whether it was possible 
to give an adequate performance of his work at 
Westminster. I answered that I thought it was, and 
told him of the effects which we hoped to get with 
the trumpets and harps placed in the Triforium. He 
was very pleased, and sent me a box for the Opera, 
which my wife and I found great pleasure in accepting. 



GUILMANT AT THE ABBEY 125 

During my stay in Paris I was a witness of the 
impressive funeral cortege of Gambetta. The playing 
of Chopin's Funeral March by one of the bands in the 
procession (I think it was the band of the Republican 
Guard) was truly superb. At some of the Colonne 
concerts, also, I was particularly struck by the brass 
of the orchestra ; it seemed to me superior to anything 
I had heard in England. But probably one would 
not be able to say the same to-day. 

At Notre Dame I was fortunate in being present at 
a very effective service. It was doubtless an echo of 
the Christmas services, and the hymn " Adeste fideles " 
was sung in procession round the Cathedral, the last 
verse being sung in the Sacrarium. The effect of the 
procession wending its way in the columned distances, 
with the organ at the West end coming in between 
the verses, was indeed beautiful. We have been able 
to turn this experience to account in the Abbey, when 
on great Festivals we sing some well-known hymns 
in procession, the choir and clergy traversing the 
Ambulatory and returning through the Choir into the 
Sacrarium. As a rule our singing in procession is 
unaccompanied, but between the verses we bring in 
the organ with, I hope, some of the effects heard 
long ago in Notre Dame. (Reference is made to an 
important use of such processional music when 
describing the events of the Coronations.) 

I did not on this visit make the acquaintance of any 
notable organists, but it has given me very great satis- 
faction from time to time to welcome prominent 
exponents of French organistic art in the Cloisters. 
One of the best of these, and a charming man, was 
Felix Alexandre Guilmant (1837-1911). He enjoyed 
playing on the Abbey organ one evening when 
I took him in for a private performance and showed 
his admirable powers of extemporisation. 



126 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

The Consecration of Canon Barry as Primate of 
Australia, of Bishop Boyd Carpenter as Bishop of 
Ripon, and the installation of the Rev. F. B. Westcott, 
as Canon, all took place in 1883. Also this year there 
was solemnised the wedding of the Hon. Hallam 
Tennyson and Miss A. Boyle, and memorial services for 
H.R.H. The Duke of Albany and for Henry Fawcett 
were held. 

In 1884 the organ was rebuilt and enlarged. I have 
already explained that the instrument was very old- 
fashioned and inadequate when I came to the Abbey. 
During my time it has been improved and rebuilt 
at various intervals, being now a very complete 
instrument. Without much trouble I got a good many 
friends to contribute stops, &c., and in 1895 we were 
able to add a very beautiful electric organ. This is 
placed in the Triforium, just above Handel's monument, 
and has a charming effect. It was the gift of a friend, 
Mr. A. D. Clarke, in memory of his wife. I have always 
been careful to preserve any of the old pipes which were 
in good order, and we actually possess two beautiful 
(wooden) stops that were added to the organ by 
Father Smith in the year 1694. The bill for inserting 
these, and two other stops (now unfortunately not to be 
found), is still in existence in the Muniment Room. 
These additions were made under the direction of 
the Precentor and Henry Purcell, the organist. 

Unfortunately the old Choir organ-case was removed 
in 1847. It is now in Shoreham Church, Kent, of 
which one of the Canons was rector, and so was 
able to obtain and utilise this beautiful example of 
ecclesiastical carpentry. It is in my opinion the very 
case which stood on the North side of the Abbey in 
Purcell's day, and upon it can still be seen the 
names of various organists of the Abbey. I had hoped 
at one time it might be restored to its place ; but this 



"MORS ET VITA" 127 

has not been possible. Its retention at Shoreham, 
however, robs the Abbey of a really interesting relic. 

The Abbey organ is now blown by an electric motor, 
but when I entered on my duties there were three old 
men who blew. They were much disturbed because I 
played voluntaries on week-days ! I do not think my 
predecessor played " in " very often on week-days, and 
he only played a few chords "out." I, however, 
played voluntaries of decent length, at which the 
three blowers grumbled much, actually getting a 
complaint to the ears of Dean Stanley. They were 
artful, representing that I kept sightseers waiting 
who wanted to see the Royal tombs. These 
three men were guides, and professed they were very 
anxious to get to their other duties as soon as possible. 
Dean Stanley spoke to me about it, when I ventured to 
remark: " Some people like to hear the organ as well 
as to see the tombs." He did not lay down any rule, 
but asked me not to make the voluntaries " too long." 
Fortunately the lazy blowers no longer harass the 
organist. 

In 1885 we had a commemoration service in aid of 
the Royal Society of Musicians, other events of 
importance this year being memorial services for General 
Gordon and for General Grant. My old friend Maas 
sang in the choir in the service for General Gordon, 
his solo being " Be thou faithful unto death." 

Among funeral services in 1886 may be mentioned 
that for Archbishop Trench, formerly Dean of West- 
minster, and the service for W. E. Forster, a statesman 
who imparted so much impetus to elementary education 
andwhose later opposition to Gladstone I well remember. 
On Ascension Day in the same year we performed 
" Mors et Vita " and my own " Rock of Ages " with 
full orchestra. 



CHAPTER X. 

Queen Victoria's Jubilee An Expensive Fanfare An Awesome 
Serpent Fenian Alarm: a "Black Bag" in the Organ-Loft 
Queen Victoria at the Jubilee Festival The National Anthem 
in the Abbey Lockhart's Jubilee Picture A "Devoted Friend" 
at the Auction A Distinguished " Man-Servant." 

IN 1887 we began the year with a service for the 
unveiling of a Memorial Tablet to Henry Fawcett. 
The music was supplied by the students at the 
Royal Normal School for the Blind. I was, however, 
absent on an errand which was the beginning of 
a very anxious time. This was the year of H.M. 
Queen Victoria's Jubilee, and preparations were 
already being made for the due celebration of this 
event, to be held in the Abbey on June 2ist. I had 
taken time by the forelock, and set some appropriate 
words as an anthem which possibly might be used on 
this occasion. H.M. The Queen had of course the 
selection of the music, and Canon Prothero suggested to 
Her Majesty that I should attend with some of the 
choir at Osborne, to let her hear my anthem. The 
date selected for our visit was unfortunately the day of 
the unveiling of Professor Fawcett's Memorial. I took 
a few boys down to Osborne, and three of the Lay- 
Vicars. It was rather curious that one of them, 
Mr. Montem Smith, had as a boy sung at the funeral 
of William IV. Besides the choral performance of my 
anthem before the Queen, one of the boys sang a solo 
from Gounod's " Redemption," and Mr. Hilton sang 
" Nazareth." I was presented to Her Majesty after 
the performance. She was very gracious, and signified 
her pleasure in the interpretations. 



COSTLY REHEARSALS 129 

A few days afterwards a letter came from 
Canon Duckworth, in which he said : " Sir Henry 
Ponsonby told me last night that you may certainly 
consider that you have the Queen's permission to 
inscribe your Jubilee anthem to her. The Queen spoke 
to me of you and your party, and seems to have enjoyed 
your visit. She praised your anthem, and expressed 
her approval of Crook's singing." Crook was one 
of the boys, and a beautiful singer. It is sad to have 
to record that only a few years later he developed 
consumption, and died. 

The preparations for the momentous event of the 
Jubilee, that has now passed into history, demanded a 
great deal of thought and care. A large choir had 
to be organized, and arrangements made for a band 
of brass and timpani to supplement the organ. There 
was also the editing of the music, which included by 
Her Majesty's Command a setting of the Te Deum by 
the late Prince Consort. The fabric and precincts of the 
Abbey were given over to the Office of Works for some 
weeks, the preparations being almost as elaborate as 
those for the Coronations of a later date. A feature 
of the ceremony was the reception of Her Majesty by 
a fanfare of trumpets played from the organ-loft. I 
found a fine collection of military trumpets, belonging, 
I suppose, to the Lord Chamberlain's department, 
which were lent to me to be played by the trumpeters 
from some of the military bands. An amusing episode 
took place when we were having a preliminary rehearsal 
of this fanfare in the Abbey. The carpenters engaged 
in putting up the stagings were much interested, 
and apparently inclined to take it a bit easy while the 
music was going on. The Clerk of the Works came 
to me, good-humouredly remonstrating against the 
continual practising : " My men simply can't work while 
that is going on, and it means five pounds a minute " ! 

K 



130 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Now trumpeting at such a costly figure, even at Jubilee 
time, becomes a luxury indeed, so we curtailed our 
rehearsals. 

The complete book of the music was published by 
Metzler & Co. The Te Deum by the Prince Consort 
was their copyright, and although my anthem was 
published by Messrs. Novello, it was also included in 
the complete book issued by Metzlers. I was greatly 
indebted to their manager, Mr. J. Coward, a son of the 
celebrated Crystal Palace organist, for much valuable 
help and advice in bringing out the book and arranging 
for the band. One day he came to me and said 
that he wished that I would do him a favour. 
"Certainly," I said, "if it is possible." "Well," he 
replied, " Mr. Arthur Chappell [the well known 
originator and director of the Monday " Pops "] is one 
of our directors, and he wants to know if I can arrange 
with you to get him admitted to the Jubilee Service." 
" Oh," I said, " that's impossible; yet if he could sing 
or play in the band, I might manage it." Coward 
thought a moment, and then said, " Leave it to me, I 
think I can arrange it," and he proceeded to play a sad 
trick upon Mr. Arthur Chappell to which I may at 
once say I was not a party. 

In a show-case at Metzlers', among examples of 
military instruments was a remarkable-looking specimen 
of the bass trombone (see Illus.), but instead of the 
tube expanding into a bell end, it was fashioned into 
the grinning head of a python. The large convoluted 
instrument known as the serpent was at one time in 
regular use in the orchestra, even in Handel's day, and 
it is said that when he first heard it in this country 
he remarked, slyly, "Dat vos nod der serpent dat did 
Eve beguile." The serpent had a wooden tube of oval 
section, some eight feet long. The Metzler relic was 
serpentine only as regards the head, which was an 



A SERPENTINE HORROR 131 

enormous affair with red jaws and white fangs 
altogether an awesome reptile and it was this thing 
Coward got down into the office, ready for Mr. Chappell.* 
That gentleman duly appeared, and of course inquired 
of Coward, "Have you seen Bridge? What did he say?" 
"Oh," said Coward, "he's very sorry, but it can't 
be done." Chappell was much disappointed. " But," 
added Coward, " there 's one way, and it 's quite easy " 
proceeding to explain that I would be glad of a 
few low notes from the bass trombone in my anthem, 
and that he, Coward, could make quite an easy part 
for Mr. Chappell, who would then be admitted as a 
member of the band, and see the show ! Chappell 
looked with undisguised dismay at the serpentine 
horror, and ejaculated, "That be hanged!" "Well," 
said Coward, " It 's your only way, and although it 's an 
awkward-looking thing to carry through the Abbey, yet 
once in the orchestra you will be all right." Chappell 
hesitated a moment, then, bracing himself, and to 
Coward's almost hysterical delight, he said, " Give me 
the mouthpiece, I'll have a try." He blew a fearful 
note, the effect of which on Coward, and on all the clerks, 
who were in the secret, cannot be described. I was 
obliged to put Chappell in the choir after this, where 
he did no harm, which he certainly might have done had 
he taken the instrument with him into the orchestra. 

There were very many details to be considered, 
nothing being left to chance. For instance, I was 
anxious to find out what was the pitch of Archbishop 
Benson's voice. The Archbishop was to read the 
prayers at the service. Although, so far as I knew, 
he did not intend to intone, yet he had a musical voice, 
and I was anxious if possible to fit in with his note the 

* I believe that grotesque instruments of this class were sometimes 
useu at country fairs, the performer playing a fantasia outside a booth by 
way of attraction for sightseers to step inside and see and perhaps hear 
worse horrors, 



132 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Responses and Amens. He was kind enough to invite 
me over to Lambeth, where he read certain prayers, 
which enabled me to arrange the matter satisfactorily. 

An incident in connection with the preparations 
for the great service must not be omitted. In this 
year (1887), just before the Jubilee, a good deal of 
alarm was prevalent in consequence of the Fenian 
outrages, and the rather frequent discovery here and 
there of clockwork bombs in black bags, &c. Long 
previous to the ceremony the Abbey was closed to the 
public, anxious precaution being taken by the officials 
to ensure the Royal safety. By special order 
the choir platform was frequently examined, and 
the organ-loft with every remote corner of the Abbey 
subjected to minute inspection. The day before the 
service a rehearsal of the band was called, after 
which I remained in the organ-loft looking over 
some music for the next day. A young pupil standing 
near startled me by calling attention to a strange noise : 

Listen, Doctor," he said, " don't you hear a ticking ? " 
"Ticking! Where?" Leaping from my seat, I 
listened intently, and sure enough I heard a faint, 
rhythmic "tic- toe," proceeding apparently from a corner 
of the loft. Peering into the shadow I saw, fateful 
sight I ... a little black bag ! 

Instead of waiting to be blown to pieces for my 
country, I left the loft well, somewhat quickly and 
hastened into the Cloisters, where I met an old man 
who had charge of the blowing-engine of the organ. 
" Groves," I said, " go up into the organ-loft, and 
bring down a little black bag that you will find in 
the corner." " Yes, Sir," he replied, and ambled off 
unsuspectingly. Then I waited. I do not know 
what I expected, or what I intended to do when 
it had been brought to me, but I breathed again 
when Groves reappeared safe and sound with the 



THE LITTLE BLACK BAG 133 

bag. On examination it was found to contain 
an alarm-clock, ticking away very merrily. I 
discovered upon inquiry that one of the band had 
bought the clock on the way to the rehearsal, but 
how his bag had escaped detection and had run the 
gauntlet of the fifty policemen who were guarding 
the Abbey and looking out for ticking clocks in black 
bags, I never quite knew, except that the bandsmen 
mostly carried their instruments in bags, and so were 
not closely examined. Groves' destiny after all was 
to die safely in bed, and when, a short time ago, 
I sent a wreath to his funeral, I thought of the 
episode of the bag, for to the day of his death he 
used to say, " You very nearly got me blowed to pieces 
that time, Sir." 

In arranging the musical portion of the Jubilee 
service I had to communicate very frequently with 
the Lord Chamberlain's Department, of which Sir 
Spencer Ponsonby Fane was then Controller. Sir 
Spencer was extremely amiable, and it was a delight 
to work with him. He presented me with a list of 
the various entries of great people for whom Marches 
had to be played, and arranged an elaborate series 
of flag signals from the west-end of the Abbey to the 
organ-loft, to let me know who was arriving. It was 
a complicated affair, but we managed to fit it all in 
pretty accurately. The final March was to be played 
as the Queen walked up the Choir to her appointed 
seat. I shall never forget how dignified and 
stately was Her Majesty's bearing at that particular 
moment. The usual choir seats had been removed, 
but the carved stalls remained, these being 
occupied by dignitaries who attended from all parts 
of the Empire, notably by many of the Indian Princes. 
Her Majesty, looking right and left as she advanced, 
seemed to me to honour each one by a special bow. 



134 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

It was a curious thing that the National Anthem 
was not down to be performed on that great occasion 
except for the inclusion of the first part of it in the 
anthem I had composed. The whole programme 
had come to us from a Royal source, and I had 
no prerogative to modify the scheme. It may be 
said in passing that there seemed for many years to 
be a shyness, if I may use the term, in singing the 
National Anthem in Church, and particularly did 
this seem to apply to the Abbey. Of late years, 
especially since the recent terrible war, this diffidence 
has happily disappeared, and at the time of writing 
I am playing the National Anthem daily at the close 
of the afternoon service. 

June 2 ist, 1887, was a gloriously beautiful day, and 
as such is surely still enshrined in the memories of 
thousands glorious from its associations, beautiful 
because a perfect day of an English summer. For us 
at the Abbey all went well, the glorious interior 
looking magnificent as the distinguished gathering 
thronged the tiers of improvised galleries, and, 
assembled from every corner of the earth, our race 
proclaimed its great day of festival and exultation.* 

A day or two after the event I was invited to the garden 
party at Buckingham Palace, when, as Her Majesty 
passed with her suite through the crowd, I was accosted 
unexpectedly by the Lord Chamberlain and presented 
to the Queen, who was very kind, saying : " The 
music was most successful, every one was extremely 
pleased." A few days later I received the Jubilee Medal, 
and also the following letter from Sir Ponsonby Fane : 

" DEAR DR. BRIDGE, I must write you a line to say 
how splendidly your music went yesterday. I shall 

* It may be of interest to state that three generations of my family took 
part in the music: My father sang tenor in the choir, my son joined the 
trebles, and I played the organ and conducted. 



A DEVOTED FRIEND 135 

always have a most pleasant recollection of our 
communications and collaborations on this interesting 
ceremony, which thank Heaven, has been so successful. 

" Yours very truly, 

" S. PONSONBY FANE." 

Dean Bradley also wrote to me in the following kind 
terms : 

" DEAR DR. BRIDGE, Please to allow me to express 
to you on paper my grateful sense of all you have done 
to secure the success of both our Jubilee Services.* 
The task of bringing together such a choir was in 
itself no light one, and I and all others are, I am sure, 
deeply grateful to you both for the successful completion 
of that task and for all else that you have done. 

" My words are few, but they come, I assure you, 
from my heart. 

" Most truly yours, 

"G. BRADLEY." 

I was honoured by being included in the Jubilee 
picture painted by Lockhart. My portrait was a 
somewhat tiny affair, and he put me standing at the 
organ-desk. After Lockhart's death many of the sketches 
he made for the picture were sold at Christie's, my 
portrait being among them. Hearing it was to be sold, 
I decided to try and buy it, and gave a commission to a 
dealer, " if it was not too expensive." The dealer 
bought it for me, but it cost rather more than I thought 
it was worth. A few days afterwards, a member of the 
Abbey voluntary choir (by profession he was a lawyer) 
said to me, " Oh ! do you know your picture was sold 
at Christie's the other day ? " " Yes," I replied. 

* The Jubilee programme was repeated in the Abbey on June stzud. 
admission to the performance being by ticket. The proceeds were 
devoted to the London hospitals. Madame Nordica sang on this occasion 
the year of her London debut at Covent Garden, which took place on 
March 12. 



136 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

" Well," he said, " I nearly bought it." " Why did you 
not ? " I inquired. " Oh ! well," said my friend, " it 
went for more than I was inclined to give, but I made 
the other chap pay for it, and ran it up well " ! He had 
been bidding against the man who was bidding for me ! 
His devotion cost me some pounds. 

Besides the Abbey Jubilee Service, a very important 
celebration of the event took place in St. Margaret's 
Church, and was attended by the House of Commons. 
Archdeacon Farrar was the Rector, and at his request I 
undertook to see to the music ; also I set a special hymn, 
written by Bishop Boyd Carpenter for the occasion. A 
very amusing incident took place in connection with this 
service, which may be worth recording. Tickets were 
difficult to get, and a very distinguished medical man who 
had attended my wife in a critical illness, came to me to 
beg that I would procure one for him. I told him it was 
quite out of my power to do so. But he was not to be 
denied : " I have done you a service," he said, " and 
you must do me a good turn ! Can't you take me in 
with you ? " Then a thought struck me I might get 
him to carry a bag containing the robes which I 
had to wear ! He was quite willing, so we went 
together. The janitor let me pass, of course, when, 
turning, I called sharply to " my man," " Hurry up 
with that bag" which he did ! When he got well inside 
he promptly dropped the bag, and afterwards I saw 
nothing of him until dining with him that evening. 
Frequently did we recall the ruse, and always did we 
find its humour irresistible. 

This was not the only service at which I officiated at 
St. Margaret's. Archdeacon Farrar was also a Canon of 
the Abbey, while as Rector of the Commons' Church 
he was always willing to give facilities for musical 
celebrations at St. Margaret's, in which I was glad 
to help him in any way, for he was a kind and cordial 



JOHN FARMER AT ST. MARGARET'S 137 

friend. On one occasion he got me to help with the 
boys in a performance of John Farmer's Cantata, 
" Christ and His Soldiers." He had known Farmer 
at Harrow, and had a great admiration for him. 
Farmer came and conducted his work, which, although 
it cannot be called a great masterpiece, seemed to 
give him intense pleasure. He got very excited, and 
perspired immensely with his exertions. I had the 
pleasant sensation of having assisted in a very strenuous 
undertaking. 

The Archdeacon was a great preacher, whom we 
missed very much when he left to become Dean of 
Canterbury. Whilst he was at Canterbury I used 
frequently to go down at his invitation to help in 
special services that he organized in the Cathedral. 



CHAPTER XI. 

The Browning Memorial Service and Mrs. Oliphant The 
Madrigal Society The Gresham Professorship Funeral of 
Lord Tennyson The Marquess of Lome's Hymn Princess 
Beatrice's Bazaar Book The Jenny Lind Memorial Death of 
Canon Prothero Musicians' Company's Exhibition Dr. Pearce 

. and the Common C(h)ord. 

IN March, 1888, we had a commemoration service for 
the Emperor William I., of Germany, and in June of 
the same year a commemoration service for his son, the 
Emperor Frederick III. Also this year there was 
celebrated the Jubilee of the Coronation of Queen 
Victoria, which was observed at the Abbey by the 
performance of Berlioz's Te Deum, sung by the Bach 
Choir and conducted by Sir Charles Stanford, with 
myself at the organ. 

The following year, 1889, brought the memorial 
service to John Bright ; also the inauguration of the 
Church House, for which I composed "The God of 
Heaven, He will prosper us ; therefore we His servants 
will arise and build, &c." 

On Ascension Day in this year there was a per- 
formance of Mendelssohn's " Elijah," in aid of the 
funds of Westminster Hospital. The announcement 
had been made, and we were in the midst of rehearsals, 
when I was gratified at receiving an entirely unexpected 
letter from the daughter of Mendelssohn, asking me to 
send her some particulars of the forthcoming event. 
It was with extreme pleasure that I responded to 
this request, and the incident was the beginning of a 



MADAME BENECKE AT THE ABBEY 139 

long friendship. Madame Benecke frequently visited 
the Abbey, on one occasion giving me a copy of 
the drawing of her distinguished father (hitherto 
unpublished), made by the painter Begas in 1821, 
which is reproduced in these pages. It is a gift which 
I greatly value. Appended is the letter above referred 
to, that formed the beginning of so much pleasant 
intercourse : 

" Norfolk Lodge, Barnet, 

" May 2nd. 

" DEAR SIR, I see a notice in the Musical Times 
that you are thinking of having ' Elijah ' in Westminster 
Abbey on the 3Oth inst. May I trouble you to tell me 
at what time it would be sung, and how we could get 
to hear it well ? Forgive my troubling you, but I do 
not like to lose a chance of hearing ' Elijah,' and I 
have never yet heard it at Westminster. 
" Believe me, 

" Yours sincerely, 

" MARIE BENECKE 
(" nee MENDKLSSOHN-BARTHOLDY "). 

In December, 1889, came the funeral of Robert 
Browning, a great and impressive service, attended 
by many distinguished people. I was asked to set 
some words of Mrs. Browning's, to be sung at the 
graveside, the verse suggested being, "What would 
we give to our beloved." Referring to the choice of 
these words, Mrs. Oliphant wrote from Windsor: "I 
think it a most beautiful thought, and one which 
Browning would have entirely appreciated, to lay him 
in his grave to the sound of his wife's beautiful words." 

Afterwards some very kind letters were written to 
me by members of the Browning family. 

I was introduced to Robert Browning in my early 
days at the Abbey, by Dean Stanley, who, in presenting 



140 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

me to Browning, delivered the characteristic remark, 
" Poetry arid Music should know each other." Many 
years later I met the poet at Arthur Coleridge's 
hospitable table, and ventured to refer to his comments 
on Fugue in his stanzas on " Master Hugues of Saxe- 
Gotha." He seemed pleased that I found interest in 
the subject, saying that he did know something 
about Fugue. I was not sure whether in his poem 
" A Toccata of Galuppi's," in the verse- 
While you sat and played Toccatas stately 
at the clavichord ? 

Browning intended to convey the idea that it was one 
of his own Toccatas Galuppi played. So far as I can 
learn there is no Toccata by this composer, for when 
we celebrated the centenary of Browning's birth I tried 
to find a Toccata of Galuppi's to play on that occasion, 
and failed. I spoke to Sir Hubert Parry about it, who 
said there was no work of that kind that he knew of. 
He however recommended a beautiful Adagio and 
Allegro Spiritoso from a Clavier Sonata for Viola da 
Gamba, which I procured and played at the service in 
the Abbey, on May 7, 1912, in honour of him whose 
life-work it had been to add to our English poetry so 
much of noble utterance and unfading beauty. 

In 1890 we had a Festival for the Royal Society 
of Musicians, which service included my short 
Oratorio, " Mount Moriah." In this year was also 
celebrated the first Latin Commemoration Service of 
Westminster School, an interesting function which is 
now held every year. 

Before continuing my Abbey record I may now 
glance at a few doings outside the Precincts. 

Some of the most interesting and pleasant music- 
makings which I can recall are those of the old 
Madrigal Society. This is the oldest musical society 
in the world. It was founded in 1741, its first meetings 



THE OLD MADRIGAL SOCIETY 141 

being held at the " Twelve Bells " in Bride Lane, and 
later at the " Anchor and Crown " in Whitefriars. 
According to Sir John Hawkins, who was himself a 
member, most of the members were mechanics and 
Spitalfields weavers, while others followed various trades 
and occupations. He records, too, that many of the 
members were very expert in music, and able to sing at 
sight almost anything in the English and Italian 
Madrigal School. When I joined the Society in 1877 
the meetings were held at the " Freemasons' Tavern " 
in Great Queen Street, from October to July. I met 
many delightful musicians at these gatherings, amongst 
them old G. A. Osborne. He and I used to sit 
together when we could, until, in 1878, they made me 
assistant-conductor. He was very congenial, and a 
real, witty Irishman. I am afraid that sometimes 
we behaved rather badly in one respect at the 
Society's meetings. There was a great objection 
on the part of the authorities to any speech- 
making. Osborne delighted in delivering a little speech, 
and more than once I encouraged him to ask 
questions perhaps more or less relevant to the 
particular madrigal being sung. The secretary, 
Edward Street, a delightful amateur musician and 
true lover of madrigals, always looked rather shocked, 
but amused ; the treasurer, Kellow J. Pye, one of 
the real old-fashioned type of serious musicians, 
looked really shocked. After this had occurred once 
or twice they refused to allow us to sit together, 
which was very disappointing to me and also to 
Osborne. However, I made up for my bad behaviour 
later on by undertaking the conductorship, a post which 
is still in my hands. It is somewhat chastening to find 
myself the oldest member of the Society. 

I had a real affection for Osborne, as I believe 
he had for me and sweet indeed is the savour of his 



142 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

memory. He often attended the meetings of the 
Musical Association, frequently rising to break a 
lance with the lecturer of the evening. But he was 
ever a genial adversary. Occasionally he would con- 
tribute a paper to the Society's " Proceedings," notably 
in vols. v. and vi., in 1879 and 1880 respectively, when 
he wrote upon Berlioz and Chopin, subjects that he 
was well qualified to speak upon, as he had been very 
intimate with these composers. 

Osborne had met many distinguished musicians. 
Himself a capital host, he found keen delight in 
social amenities. A relaxation in which he frequently 
indulged was in playing duets with Dr. T. Lea 
Southgate, who was an intimate friend. Osborne had 
been a very popular pianoforte teacher, and he com- 
posed a good deal of light pianoforte music. His 
" La Pluie des Perles" had a wonderful success. He 
once told me that this little piece had brought him 
in over six thousand pounds. It gave him great pleasure 
when we performed an anthem of his at the Abbey, which 
he produced rather late in life. It was very melodious, 
though lacking some of the characteristics that are 
wont to be looked for in devotional music. Osborne was 
a great friend of old John Ella. There is a story the 
truth of which I can vouch for that when Ella, stricken in 
years and blind, and able to say with Job " I am a 
burden to myself," stood sorely in need of comfort, 
Osborne would frequently devote a Sunday to visiting his 
friend, whom he would solace by reading from the Bible. 

The most notable event in connection with the 
Madrigal Society was the hundred and fiftieth 
Anniversary Festival, held in 1890, when amongst 
other things we performed Tallis's celebrated Motet, 
composed for eight choirs of five voices, i.e., forty 
parts. This same Motet had been sung over fifty 
years before at a Festival held in 1836. 



AN AWKWARD LEAD 143 

In 1904 I was elected president, and in 1914 the 
members presented me with the gold medal of the 
Society in recognition of my long years of service. 
This old Society has always helped to keep alive 
the love of madrigal singing. The Children of the 
Chapel Royal have for many years taken part in 
its meetings, sometimes assisted by boys from 
well-known church choirs to sing the soprano part. 
Arthur Sullivan when a boy in the Chapel Royal 
attended these meetings, Thomas Helmore, master of 
the Children, being a very prominent member. There 
are in the old soprano copies some amusing pencil notes 
Sullivan made at that time. In 1899 he was elected 
president, and laughed very much when his attention 
was called to these youthful essays. The performances 
are of course occasionally rough, but the members 
assemble essentially for singing and not for rehearsing. 
The Society is assisted by several professional singers, 
so things go fairly well, though occasionally a little 
slip will be made by one of the aged members. I 
remember a case that was really rather trying at the 
moment. We had an old member who had contributed 
very handsomely to the Prize Fund, which the Society 
administers at stated intervals. I must explain that 
many of the books used at the meetings have madrigals 
at one end and anthems at the other, and it is possible 
to get hold of the wrong end of the book, and try to 
sing an anthem when a madrigal is on. This indeed 
seems to have happened on the occasion that I have in 
mind. We were singing one of the "Oriana" set, 
which generally conclude with the words : 

Then sang the shepherds and nymphs of Diana, 
Long live fair Oriana, 

in this particular madrigal there being a silent bar 
before the chorus came in. At the critical moment the 



144 

old gentleman to whom I have referred led off in 
stentorian tones a part of an anthem beginning 




O Lord ! 

This nearly upset the nymphs and shepherds, but we 
were afraid to make much of the incident in case there 
should be no more money for the Prizes. 

The Society's meetings are quaint old functions, 
the key-note for each madrigal being blown by the 
conductor on a somewhat wheezy pitch-pipe. It is 
recorded of one of the conductors who preceded me 
that he blew the note so badly, beginning softly and 
crescendoing into a different note and back again, that 
when he stated " That's A," one of the members called 
out, " Which end of it ? " 

The programmes always contain a selection of the 
celebrated "Oriana" Madrigals, which were composed 
by the leading musicians of England in honour of 
Queen Elizabeth and published in 1601. It may be 
unknown to many people that a similar compliment was 
paid to Queen Victoria when, in 1899, Sir Walter 
Parratt originated the idea that took shape in a book 
of " Choral Songs and Madrigals." Sir Walter did me 
the honour of asking me to set the following charming 
words written by the Marquess of Crewe : 

For all the wonder of thy regal day, 

Golden content, and Freedom that can dare 
To covet not nor shun a grander sway, 

And knowledge soaring to a loftier air, 
We bend to Thee that Thou hast been 
Of sea and land illustrious Queen. 
But rather for the mind that can rejoice 

With all our joy, and strive as we have striven, 
Ripe human counsel, and the nearer voice 

Of comfort to the lowly mourner given 
We cling to this, that thou hast been 
In heart and home our Mother Queen. 




A CURIOUS BASS TROMBONE. 




LlTTLIXGTOX To\VKR 

ix 1840 



CAPTAIN COOKE'S SIGNATURE, 
SCRATCHED ox AX ABBEY WINDOW. 



MADRIGALIAN RECITALS 145 

I also took a very active interest in another body, 
known as the Western Madrigal Society. Founded 
in 1840, at No. 27, Soho Square, its first meeting 
was held shortly afterwards, under the presidency 
of Joseph Calkin, while I had the honour of 
conducting these madrigalists from 1878 to 1896, the 
meetings then being held in Lisle Street, Leicester 
Square, at the rooms of the Royal Society of 
Musicians. A delightfully quaint atmosphere seemed 
to linger in this quiet retreat, the old-world charm of 
the madrigals performed finding harmonious setting 
in the surroundings. We gathered there literally under 
the eyes of bygone worthies in the realm of music 
Purcell and Handel, among others and the drama, 
whose portraits gazed solemnly from heavy frames, 
and, I fear, through much varnish and faded paint, 
at the group of moderns seeking to capture the spirit 
of the melodies of long ago. A distinguished portrait 
among the many hanging there is a very fine one 
by Gainsborough, of King George III., who presented 
it to the Royal Society of Musicians. 

The Court of Assistants administering the splendid 
charity of the Royal Society of Musicians have for 
many years held their meetings in these rooms. The 
story of their unostentatious beneficence has never 
been told, yet doubtless it has brought light and cheer 
into many a straitened home. 

The procedure of the Western Madrigal Society 
assimilated closely to that of the " old " Society upon 
which it was modelled. But the younger Society 
dispensed with the dinner that is so much a feature of 
the meetings of the old Madrigal Society probably 
with advantage, because it is questionable whether a 
generous menu is the best preparation for artistic 
voice-production. The Western Society preserved, 
however, a tradition of its own, which was observed at 

L 



146 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

the interval in the programme. The chief upholder of 
this tradition was Mr. Stephen Olding (a popular 
member and a charming man), who combined with his 
knowledge of madrigals an expert gift for compounding 
punch. He never failed to attend without bringing 
with him a couple of bottles of his special brew, 
which the members and visitors consumed with great 
satisfaction. The beverage was really very good, and 
sometimes the effect on the voices of the singers 
especially the altos was remarkable. In the second 
part of the programme, should an amorous number 
occur, they would skip through it with delightful 
nimbleness. I can still see two of these old gentle- 
men their combined ages numbered a hundred and 
sixty years ! with hardly a quaverous note to mark 
their years, valiantly voicing " I saw lovely Phyllis." 
The incident is not without a certain pathetic humour. 
Perhaps the compounder of the punch had studied the 
"Anatomy of Melancholy," and added philters to 
his recipe. 

To speak of punch recalls another medium of the same 
name, but a different order of volatility I refer to the 
London Charivari. The distinguished artist, Charles 
Keene, so long associated with Punch, was a very 
interested member of this Society and a regular attendant 
at its meetings. He was a silent man ; in fact I do 
not remember ever hearing his voice in the madrigals, 
but he seemed thoroughly to enjoy the functions. 

Alas ! very few of my old friends of those days 
of long ago now survive. Very reluctantly I had to 
relinquish the direction of this Society, as I found that 
my accumulation of conductorships was making undue 
demands upon my energies. There are limits even to 
the ecstasy of swaying a baton. 

In 1890 the Gresham Professorship of Music fell 
vacant. It is one of seven Professorships founded by 



GRESHAM LECTURER 147 

Sir Thomas Gresham in 1575, Dr. Bull having been 
the first musical professor. I had never done a great 
deal in the way of lecturing, but was not wholly 
without experience, having at various times contributed 
lectures both in Manchester and in London. I deter- 
mined to send in my name to the Grand Gresham 
Committee, a body formed jointly of the Corporation of 
London and the Mercers' Company. One of the regu- 
lations laid down by the Committee was that a select 
number of the applicants should lecture at the College 
before the Committee and general public. In the 
result, I was one of six selected. I took a great deal 
of trouble with my paper, both in preparation of 
matter and in delivery, but must confess that I felt 
really nervous when my turn came to lecture. Later 
I was summoned to Mercers' Hall, to interview the 
Committee, being elected, I believe, almost unani- 
mously. The most dangerous of my opponents was a 
German ! In the course of my duties I have delivered 
something like three hundred and fifty lectures, up 
to the time of writing. They are free to the public, 
and are illustrated by vocal and instrumental music. 
Gresham College has recently been rebuilt, and a 
very excellent hall to hold five hundred people 
provided for lectures. The audiences are large and 
interested, and certainly my Professorship has been 
to me a source of great interest and information. 
My hearers sometimes appreciate a little humour. I 
remember an occasion on which I was able to score 
off a member of the public. I had gone past my 
allotted time (one hour), and apologised for so 
doing. " Go on, Sir," said a voice from the gallery, 
"it's raining outside." This raised a laugh, so 
I paused a moment, before saying, " The remark 
reminds me that at one of the lectures given here, 
a long time ago, only two persons attended, and 



i 4 8 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

they, it is said, only entered because it was ' wet 
outside.' Doubtless they stayed to find it rather dry 
inside." 

The funeral of Lord Tennyson, in 1892, was of 
course a very important event, the ceremony being 
attended by many great personages. The Hon. Hallam 
Tennyson asked me to set " Crossing the Bar," to be 
sung at this service, and I was naturally very anxious 
to set the words to worthy music. The poem was 
one of the last things Tennyson wrote. As everyone 
knows, its nobility of utterance had made a profound 
impression. To set it for such an occasion and 
perhaps find that lovers of the words did not think 
much of the music, would have been very mortifying. 
There was no time to lose, as the work had to be 
composed, printed, and rehearsed in the space of a 
few days. However, I got to work one morning and 
completed the first sketch. Just as this was done I 
received a call from a friend of the deceased Laureate, 
who was anxious to know how it was getting on. He 
seemed surprised that I had done so much, and 
begged me to let him hear it. Now this was hardly 
fair. We know that artists do not like to let a sitter 
see their first sketch for a portrait, and I felt it 
might not be wise to let the music be heard till I 
had given it due revision. However, my visitor was 
very persuasive, so sitting down I played and sang 
it to him as well as I could. As soon as it was 
finished he jumped up, and striking his hands together 
said, " You've made a great success of it." This 
encouraged me a great deal. Resuming my work with 
renewed zeal, the setting was completed without delay. 
I have the original sketch by me, and may be permitted 
to state, with some little pride, that there were but very 
minute changes necessary in what had come to me in 
my first attempt. 



AN UNEXPECTED REQUEST 149 

In April, 1894, I received an unexpected request from 
Scotland, to make a hymn-setting of some verses by the 
Marquess of Lome, to be included in a special book 
that was being compiled on behalf of H.R.H. Princess 
Beatrice in connection with a bazaar she was organizing 
at Balmoral. The subjoined letter, from the editor 
of the book, explains the object and purposes of her 
Royal Highness very fully: 

" Craig Gowan, 

"Balmoral, N.B., 

11 April nth, 1894. 

"SiR, H.R.H. Princess Beatrice has authorised me 
to edit a Bazaar Book for the Bazaar which her Royal 
Highness is to hold here this Autumn. To this book 
the Marquess of Lome has sent some verses which, 
if set to music, would make a very appropriate hymn 
for the dedication of the new Church. I therefore 
venture to ask you whether you would kindly undertake 
to compose the music the same for publication in 
the Bazaar Book ? Should you entertain this proposal, 
I shall send you a copy of the verses. 

" Believe me to be, 

" Yours very faithfully, 

"R. A. PROFEIT." 

It was with pleasure that I undertook this task. 
The hymn and tune are now printed as No. 401 in the 
" Westminster Abbey Hymn Book." 

Early in the same year also an influential committee 
was assembled, under the presidency of H.R.H. Princess 
Christian, for the purpose of setting up in the Abbey a 
memorial to the great name of Jenny Lind (Madame 
Lind-Goldschmidt). The memorial took the form of 
a medallion, and was unveiled on April 25th by 



150 

Princess Christian, in the presence of a distinguished 
company. A few days afterwards Her Royal Highness 
caused the following letter to be sent to me : 

"8, Onslow Gardens, 

"April 24th, 1894. 

" DEAR Dr. BRIDGE, Princess Christian has desired 
me to write and tell you how much obliged she is to 
you for the very kind way in which you made and 
carried out the musical arrangements, with which all 
present were delighted, on the occasion of Her Royal 
Highness unveiling the Jenny Lind Memorial on 
Friday last in Westminster Abbey. 

" Her Royal Highness wishes me to mention how 
much also she appreciated the singing of the boys. 

" Believe me to be, 

" Yours very truly, 

" CHARLES ELIOT." 

Later in 1894 the death of my old and good friend 
Canon Prothero brought a great loss to the Abbey and 
to myself. Always ready to listen to any suggestions 
for the improvement of the music of the Abbey services, 
or that would tend to the greater welfare of the boys, 
he never spared himself any effort constantly to progress 
in these directions. He was kind and appreciative, and 
respected by all the choral staff. 

For the Hereford Festival of this year (1894) I 
contributed a sacred choral work entitled "The Cradle 
of Christ." 

An interesting musical event with which I had 
much to do was the Exhibition of music and musical 
instruments held in Fishmongers' Hall, under the 
auspices of the Musicians' Company, in 1904. We 
assembled a splendid collection of old instruments, 
among which was a reputed reproduction of the 



RECITAL ON THE WATER-ORGAN 151 

Graeco-Roman hydraulus * or " water-organ," in which 
there is no bellows, the wind being maintained and 
equalised by the weight of a column of water raised 
by a pump worked by a lever. The Prince and 
Princess of Wales (now King George and Queen 
Mary) visited the Exhibition, and I was asked to 
contribute a selection on the "water organ." It proved 
a very wheezy affair, and I found it difficult to play 
even the National Anthem upon it. However, after 
a little practice I thought it could be managed, 
my friend Sir Homewood Crawford, a prominent 
member of the Company, undertaking to blow. His 
Royal Highness and the Princess of Wales were 
very much interested in the instrument, so I set 
to work to play, and Sir Homewood Crawford to 
blow, but the effect was certainly rather ludicrous. 
It amused the listeners very much. At the end 
of my "recital" I apologised for my poor effort, and 
added, " Sir Homewood is not a very expert blower." 
He was fairly taken aback at my audacity, but said 
nothing. However, later on he had a chance of getting 
me to make amends. When the Coronation of King- 
George was being arranged, it became necessary to 
provide two blowers for an auxiliary bellows for the 
organ. Of course we had a band, but at some parts of 
the service the organ was used alone, and although 
it was blown by electricity, yet I had to insure 
against an accident cutting off the wind. So a 
small bellows was installed to supply a part of the 
organ, if an accident should happen. Thus was 
established a bit of valuable patronage, as its conferment 

* It was constructed from the descriptions given by Hero (B.C. 250) 
and Vitruvius (c. A.D. 50), and from details supplied by a pottery 
model discovered at Carthage and made in the early part of the second 
century A.D. A full description, with illustrations and diagrams, appeared 
in " The Reliquary," July, 1904, and in the printed collection of Lectures 
delivered at the Exhibition. 



152 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

assured the recipients seeing the Coronation ! Sir 
Homewood put in a claim to be one of my emergency 
blowers, on the strength of previous experience ! His 
fellow-blower was my old friend the Rev. Duncan Ross, 
Presbyterian Minister from Aberdeenshire, whose Kirk 
I had attended when in Scotland. They were both 
rehearsed the day before, and became quite efficient in 
their work. But they did not have to blow, and so were 
able to see a great deal of the Coronation ceremony. 

Adverting to the Musicians' Company's Exhibition, 
I recall an amusing little "professional" encounter 
with Dr. C. W. Pearce. I was delivering one of the 
lectures that formed part of the scheme of the Exhibition, 
and the afternoon was inordinately hot. Pausing in 
my address, I drew attention to the need for ventilation, 
whereupon Dr. Pearce got up, and, as the event proved, 
wrestled unsuccessfully with some cords that should 
have opened the windows. His discomfiture was 
complete when I remarked in a loud whisper to the 
audience that he, a Doctor of Music, seemed "unable 
to manage the common c(h)ord." 

The lectures above referred to drew large audiences, 
my friend Dr. T. Lea Southgate being indefatigable in 
his attention to numerous details of organization that 
contributed to the general success of the undertaking.* 
A name that may justly be coupled with Dr. Southgate's 
is that of the late Mr. Alfred H. Littleton, who, as well 
as himself contributing to the lectures, loaned the 
unique collection of historical books from his valuable 
musical library which formed one of the features of the 
Exhibition. 



* Dr. Southgate was always willing to place his valuable manuscripts 
at my disposal, thus enabling me on several occasions at my lectures at 
numerous other venues to revive many old " Fancies " for strings by 
Jenkins, Dering, and others. 



CHAPTER XII. 

Purcell Celebration Purcell's Te Deum : A Dramatic Incident 
Purcell Memorial in the Abbey Purcell's Residences Relics 
A Purcell Myth Purcell Stops in the Abbey Organ 
Conductorship of the Royal Choral Society A "Cabman Critic" 
A Contrapuntal Waiter. 

EXCEPT for various weddings and funerals, there is 
nothing to record concerning my work at the Abbey 
until 1895. This year brought the bi-centenary of 
Henry Purcell, our greatest musician and a former 
organist at Westminster Abbey. I had made up my 
mind to have a memorable celebration if possible, and 
the suggestion was approved by the authorities, a large 
choir being organized and rehearsed with a complete 
orchestra. We took a great deal of trouble to obtain 
the best anthems of Purcell, such as would be suitable 
for a large choir, for of course the " verse anthems," 
as they are called, would be ill-adapted for interpre- 
tation by the resources assembled. I also desired 
to include the celebrated Te Deum written by 
Purcell for St. Cecilia's Day, 1694, and sung at the 
Festival at St. Paul's until Handel produced his 
" Dettingen " setting. After that it shared the Festivals 
with Handel's music. I may confess to being rather 
troubled about the Purcell Te Deum. I had tried it 
once and found it very tedious and wearisomely long. 
Also there existed an account of Mendelssohn's having 
heard it at St. Paul's, and his severe remarks upon the 
composition. On looking over the score I formed the 



154 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

conclusion that it could not be done. It would take 
up too much time, and frankly the work did not 
seem worth it. Of course one hardly dared breathe 
these sentiments to Purcell-lovers, but I did speak to 
Sir Hubert Parry on the subject, and found he agreed 
with me, saying he thought it " dull and long-winded." 
So with much regret I determined to omit it. Then 
occurred a most dramatic and fortunate incident. 
When walking one night to my house in the Cloisters, 
after evening service, a man appeared out of the gloom 
and stopped me, saying " Have you a few minutes, 
Sir?" "No," said I, for I was very busy, and perhaps 
not very polite. " Oh ! " said he, " I am sorry, I 
wanted to show you a manuscript; I think it is by 
Purcell " ! " Come home with me," I replied, with 
great cordiality. As we neared my house I recognised 
him as Mr. S , a Lay-Clerk of Windsor. When we 
got in I took him to the drawing room to have a cup 
of tea, and he handed me a roll of manuscript 
music. Placing it on the pianoforte, I could hardly 
believe my eyes ! Before me was the veritable 
autograph score of PurcelPs Te Deum. I told him at 
once what it was, and he said, " I thought you would 
be interested." Inquiry elicited that it had come into 
his wife's possession from a daughter of John Mitchell, 
the old organist of Eton College. I had known 
Mitchell well when at Windsor, as he was also a 
Lay- Vicar of St. George's. It seemed that he had 
lately died, and amongst other pieces of music his 
daughter had presented this manuscript to the wife of 

Mr. S . It did not take me long to make up my 

mind to endeavour to secure the Te Deum. But 
Mr. S - demurred, saying, " I can't say Yes, or No, 
as it belongs to my wife." Then a bright thought struck 
me. I remembered that in a drawer in my study was 
a bank-note for a considerable amount. I am not in 



AN INTERESTING FIND 155 

the habit of keeping bank-notes there ; but it was a 
fact that I did happen to have one at that moment. I 
hastened to get it, and coming back, said, " My dear 
S , this manuscript is of no use to you or to your 
wife, but it does interest me, being at the Abbey, and 
I'll exchange this note with you for it " ! This 
made an impression, and after a hesitating look at 
the manuscript he hastened off with the note, 
leaving the music with me. Now comes the surprising 
sequel to the story. I was much interested in my 
purchase, particularly as it contained the names of the 
original solo-singers inserted in the score. They were 
mostly members of the Chapel Royal choir, of which 
place Purcell was organist as well as of Westminster. 
But looking through the Te Deum once or twice, I 
began to rub my eyes, and wonder what was wrong 
with it. It seemed so much better than the Te Deum 
with which I was familiar, and so much more condensed. 
Taking down the printed score, published by Vincent 
Novello, in a moment I realised intuitively, but with 
the most absolute certainty, what had been done. 
Dr. Boyce, anxious to keep Purcell's Te Deum alive as 
a rival to the " Dettingen " Te Deum of Handel, had 
taken Purcell's score and broken it up into various move- 
ments, adding in the process about a hundred and fifty 
bars to the original, many of these additions being exceed- 
ingly " dull and long-winded" symphonies. This was 
the cause that had excited Mendelssohn's disgust, had 
prompted Sir Hubert Parry's dictum that it was " dull 
and long-winded," and established my conviction that 
it was too tiresome to find a place in the Purcell 
Celebration. It was a great and joyful surprise to me. 
But to place the matter beyond dispute I at once looked 
out one of the original printed scores issued by Purcell's 
widow, which corresponded exactly with the manuscript. 
This was delightful, for now it was possible for me to 



156 



A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 



include this great work in the programme of the 
Celebration. The following day I went up to Novello's, 
and told Mr. Littleton the whole story and what I 
had discovered, saying, " Now you must issue an octavo 



left M 

gon&fo fad De 

hit tftctrmony 
can be exceeded* 




TABLET TO THE MEMORY OF PDRCELL 
IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 



edition for us." " But," he said, " I think we have an 
octavo edition already." He sent for a copy, and on 
looking at it gave a very impressive little whistle, 
remarking, " This is awkward ! " It was indeed an 



PURCELL COMMEMORATION 157 

octavo edition, but unfortunately it contained all 
Dr. Boyce's additions. Mr. Littleton was good enough 
to let me prepare another edition this time of the real 
Purcell, which was duly sung at the Celebration. Had 
my friend from Windsor turned up a few days later, 
this would not have been possible, and I should always 
have felt that our programme was incomplete. Oddly 
enough some people rather questioned my discovery, 
one excellent but conservative Cathedral organist 
writing that " he did not like to give up the Purcell he 
had known so long " ! 

Musicians were generally much interested in the 
Celebration, and a wreath was placed upon the 
Master's grave by a deputation from the various 




PDRCELL'S ADTOGRAPH, FROM " BONDUCA " (1695). 
(The MS. was formerly in the possession of Sir John Hawkins.) 

musical institutions, Sir Hubert Parry, Sir Alexander 
Mackenzie, Sir Charles Stanford, and Sir Walter 
Parratt being among those who conveyed it to the 
spot where Purcell lies. The collection was for a 
Purcell Memorial in the Abbey, which suitably 
took the form of one of the fine cases for the 
organ, designed by J. L. Pearson. Enough was raised 
to erect the case for the North side of the organ, 
and later on the Dean and Chapter contributed the cost 
of the case on the South side, which is embellished 
with the arms of Purcell. So the Master has one of 
the biggest, and, I think, one of the best memorials 
preserved in the Abbey. I must not omit to add here 



158 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

that the Dean and Chapter, on the suggestion of Canon 
Wilberforce, kindly presented me with my Doctor's 
robes to be worn at this Commemoration of the greatest 
of Abbey organists. Already I had my Doctor's hood, 
but only the black Bachelor's gown. I have worn these 
robes at the Coronations, and at all the great Abbey 
services since 1895. 

I was also so fortunate during my preparation of 
the Commemoration as to be able to glean a little 
of what may be called "domestic" information 
concerning Purcell, that may be viewed as an 
interesting corollary to the event. By the kindness 
of Mr. Aston, the secretary of Queen Anne's Bounty, 
I had the benefit of the services of one of his 
assistants, who exhaustively searched the rate-books 
of Westminster. These are carefully preserved, and are 
in excellent order. From these records we discovered 
the positions of three houses in which Purcell had 
lived : one in St. Ann's Lane, another in Bowling 
Alley, and the third in Marsham Street. Of these, 
only the one in Bowling Alley remained. Bowling Alley 
is the old name for the upper part of what is now called 
Tufton Street.* 

I took Mr. Wright, Clerk of the Works, with me, 
when we found that although the front of the house 
had sustained many alterations, being subsequently 
turned into a shop, the rooms at the back were 
probably in the same condition as in Purcell's day, 
presenting two little panelled chambers having high 
wooden mantelpieces of a style which to-day would 
be far to seek. (See Illus.) 

Unfortunately this house, with others, was pulled 
down when the new buildings of the S.P.G. were 

* It led right up to the South Gate of Dean's Yard, and it seems a 
pity that the old name, reminiscent of a recreation of the Monks, should 
have been changed. 



A DESIGNER OF FURNITURE 159 

erected a few years ago, but I had a sketch made of 
the interior of the principal room, and also purchased 
the mantelpieces and balusters of the staircase, along 
with other curious woodwork. These relics I have had 
made into very useful cupboards for my music. My 
friend, the late Sir Horace Regnart, sometime Chairman 
of Messrs. Maples, admired these very much, com- 
plimenting me on my skill as a designer of furniture ! 

There is no doubt that Purcell never had a house from 
the Dean and Chapter, but was the recipient instead 
of a yearly sum in lieu of such accommodation. His 
receipts, up to the time of his death, are all preserved 
in the Abbey Muniment Room. 

An old house in Westminster used to be pointed out 
as the one in which Purcell lived, and Dr. Cummings 
gave a sketch of it in his " Life of Purcell." Dean 
Stanley also had a painting of this house, which at 
his death came into my possession, but it is certain the 
whole story was a legend, probably invented by that 
very enthusiastic Purcell-lover, Mr. Richard Clarke. 

Another interesting fact which I discovered in the 
course of researches prompted by the occasion of 
the Purcell Celebration, was that the original pipes 
of two beautiful stops in the Abbey organ, added 
in 1694 under Purcell's own direction Father Smith 
being the builder still formed an integral part of the 
instrument. 

In 1905 I had conferred upon me the Honorary 
Degree of M.A. of the University of Durham by Vote 
of Convocation. I had for many years acted as an 
Examiner in the University along with my old school- 
fellow, Dr. Armes, Professor of Music there, and Sir John 
Stainer, and had laboured (not unsuccessfully, I hope) 
with these musicians to place the Musical Examination 
upon the high level to which it has now attained. 
Dr. Armes was the pupil of Hopkins, at Rochester, for 



i6o A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

whom, it will be remembered, I pulled out the organ- 
stops as a boy, and blew the organ when he practised 
"Baal, we cry to thee." 

The Examination periods at Durham were delightful 
times. The University extended a right cordial welcome 
to the Examiners, lodging us in the Castle and feeding 
us sumptuously. As Armes and I hailed from the 
same Cathedral School, we had many a story of past 
days to enliven the evenings. When he died he was 
succeeded in the Professorship by my brother, 
Dr. J. C. Bridge, of Chester. 

The death of Sir Joseph Barnby in 1896 left vacant 
the conductorship of the Royal Choral Society, and 
the Council were good enough to offer me the post. 
Having had some experience both in Manchester 
and in London in conducting choral forces, I 
gladly accepted the position. Curiously enough, 
I had ten years before conducted a rehearsal of the 
Society. It was the first rehearsal of Sullivan's 
" Golden Legend." Barnby was ill, and at the last 
moment I was asked to take the baton. There was only 
a very short time in which to look over the score of the 
new work, but we had a very successful rehearsal, and 
Barnby wrote me the following very kind and appre- 
ciative letter. It is interesting, viewed in the light that 
I became his successor as conductor of his famous 
choir, a position that I continue to administer after 
upwards of twenty-two years : 

" The Cloisters, 
"Eton College, Windsor, 
"September 2Qth, 1886. 

"My DEAR BRIDGE, I owe you many thanks for so 
kindly taking my rehearsal for me on Monday night. 
I have heard such a report too of its success, that I am 
quite free from all anxiety. 






THK MEDAL OF THK WORSHIPFUL COMI'ANY OF MUSICIANS. 



ORCHESTRAL VOCALISTS 161 

" I think you would be inclined to smile if you could 
see the enthusiastic way in which Hedley* speaks of 
your admirable management. Once more thanking 
you heartily and sincerely, 

"Believe me, 

"Sincerely yours, 

"J. BARNEY. 
"You will be pleased to know I am much better." 

I hope the choral singing has not deteriorated in the 
years that I have held the pleasant position of conductor 
of the Royal Choral Society. It is unfortunately not 
possible to be very enterprising, for expenses have to be 
met, and the public will not come in paying numbers to 
hear any but well-known works. However, I claim 
during my many years of office that we have kept the 
performances at a good level, and brought forward 
many new works. In the Appendix will be found a list 
of the works performed under my direction by the 
Royal Choral Society. My relations with both choir 
and orchestra have always been very happy ; now and 
then I have been betrayed into a satirical word, but 
seldom into an angry one. Yet the orchestra has 
given me one or two chances. One occasion was 
when they joined in the " Demon Chorus " in 
" Gerontius," singing " Ha ! Ha ! " with a nasal tone 
(this had been allowed by some conductors, but 
I strongly disliked it). I pulled them up, with the 
remark, " Don't join in ; but if you must sing, let us 
hear what will come more naturally to you, 'He-Haw' ! " 
Mr. Gervase Elwes was present, and never forgets to 
tell me of this incident, which delighted him. 

Another time, when remonstrating with them for 
playing too loudly, I asked, " Why don't you play 
as softly as you did on Sunday last ? I am told that 

* The Secretary of the Royal Choral Society at that time. 
M 



1 62 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

it was delightful. But I suppose you had a long- 
haired German conducting, and took more notice of 
him than you do of me!" "No, Sir," said one, 
" It wasn't a German it was Percy Pitt." "Ah," said 
I, " under a man with such initials you could not help 
but play pp ! " 

On yet another occasion we were rehearsing 
Berlioz's " Faust." This time, however, it was the 
choir, and I remember rebuking the tenors for 
singing the Satanic choruses so listlessly. I must 
explain that in this fearful scene Berlioz has set music 
to some very odd gibberish, invented by himself, and 
supposed to represent the language of Hades. I called 
the singers' attention to one line, pronouncing the 
words as I wished them to be sung. But I mis-read 
a word, and was instantly detected, for a mellifluous 
voice from the tenors piped up, " But there 's an o at 
the end of it, Sir " ! However, I was at once able to 
subdue him : " Yes," I retorted, "and you'll say 'Oh ! ' 
if you get there and don't know the language ! " 

And here perhaps I may appropriately tell the story 
of my "cabman critic." I picked him up one night on 
leaving the Albert Hall, after conducting a concert. 
He drove me home. I had alighted in Dean's Yard, 
and was searching in my pocket for the fare, when 
suddenly he exclaimed, " Well, Sir Frederick, how did 
the concert go off? " I was rather taken aback by this 
unexpected query, and for a moment hardly knew 
what to reply. In point of fact, the particular concert 
was one of a special character. We had given a 
selection of Wagner, including " The Last Supper," a 
very difficult work which had not been done in London 
for, I think, some twenty-five years indeed, very few 
choral societies had been able to tackle it. Pulling 
myself together, I said to the expectant cabby, " Oh, I 
think pretty fair." My friend at once replied, " Well, 



A CABMAN CRITIC 163 

for myself I don't understand Wagner [pronouncing 
it in familiar English], he is too abstruse and mathe- 
matical for me." This amused me very much, and 
after a little more conversation I said, " Well, you 
know who I am. If you like to look out for me I shall 
be glad to employ you to take me to and from the 
rehearsals." He thanked me, and said he would not 
forget. True to his word he turned up on the next 
occasion of a rehearsal. Afterwards I employed him 
often. He constantly came to the rehearsals, and also to 
the concerts, and on not a few occasions honoured me 
by adversely criticising my conducting. For example, 
he said, after a performance of " Messiah," " It 
was very good, Sir Frederick, very good : but what 
makes you take the * Hallelujah Chorus' so fast?" 
"Fast," said I, "I didn't take it fast." "Oh, yes, 
you did," he observed, shaking his head, adding, as 
he drove off, " It may gain in brilliancy by your method, 
but it loses in majesty. Good-night ! " 

On another occasion my cabman critic rather non- 
plussed me by asking what I thought of Perosi, the 
Italian composer whose music was then being talked 
about in London. Not knowing much about him, 
however, but not wishing to exhibit my ignorance, 
I fenced with the question. He soon discovered I 
was somewhat at sea on the subject, and proceeded : 
" If you have not seen his ' Transfiguration ' I 
will lend you the score." I thanked him, and we 
parted. The very next time I required his services 
he reminded me of the conversation, and handed 
me the score, producing it from under the box-seat. 
I could give numerous instances of his extraordinary 
powers of criticism and of his love for music. I found 
on inquiry that he did not drive his cab on Sundays, 
but spent most of his time practising on an organ 
which he had at home. At different times I presented 



1 64 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

him with a good many pieces of music, my own 
compositions being amongst the number. These 
he considered to be somewhat "knotty" (I suppose 
his familiarity with the whip suggested this critical 
term). It was easy to perceive his great delight in the 
short discussions that I was able to give him, in 
the quiet of Dean's Yard, after my return in his cab 
from a concert or rehearsal. He was one of the most 
musical men in a humble walk of life that I have 
ever met, and I am sure his verdicts on performances 
would bear favourable comparison with those of many 
professional music critics. After he lent me the score 
of Perosi's oratorio I dubbed him.Perosi, and that was 
the name by which the linkmen at the Albert Hall 
got to know him (some of them playfully, after their 
manner, contracting it to " Rosie "). I think it is no 
small credit to him that from the uncongenial altitude 
of the box of a London cab he had been able to 
cultivate music so successfully. 

That my cabman took a real pleasure in serving me, 
and that he heartily appreciated the interest that I 
unfeignedly found in him, is evidenced by the following 
letter written by his daughter, which explains itself: 

"May 8th, 1900. 

" l DEAR SIR, Father requested me to write to you 
apologising for disappointing you last evening. He 
got a fare through the City, and was blocked by the 
traffic as a result of the procession of the Naval 
Squadron. It would appear that he was careless or 
indifferent about keeping his appointment, but such is 
not the case. He has been a victim to circumstances, 
and had no alternative but to accept the situation. 
. Trusting you will accept this explanation, he 
remains your 

" Most humble and faithful servant, 



AN ANTIPODEAN CORRESPONDENT 165 

But this is not the only example of a musical 
enthusiast I have met in unexpected places. Among 
many curious experiences that have come to me as 
organist of Westminster, I may mention the eager 
desire shown by unknown music-lovers in far away 
corners of the world to make me their correspondent. 
Numerous compositions reach me in this way, the hope 
and pride of whose creators is that each their child of 
many prayers may be heard in one of the Abbey services. 
Many works, again, are submitted to me with a request 
for an opinion upon their merit. One of my most 
industrious correspondents writes to me from a poultry 
farm in Australia. He says that his is a remote part 
of the country, and that he amuses himself by playing 
on the American organ and on the mandoline. He 
composes a good deal, setting many tunes to popular 
hymns. Also he has turned his attention to organ 
voluntaries, producing among these latter a "Dirge" 
for a favourite dog that had been killed by a motor. 
He does not say if he developed this theme as 
programme music ; but concerning its inspiration, I 
was led to reflect that even in the back country where 
he lives, motor traffic could be a source of danger. I 
asked in one of my letters if he found that cocks and 
hens took any interest in music. He assured me that 
some of them were really musical, and that music was 
very effective in stimulating the production of eggs ! 
I have maintained an interesting correspondence with 
my friend, whose attraction, although I have never 
seen him, lies in his obviously sincere love for music 
and his simple enthusiasms. On one occasion he sent 
me a setting of some words (a carol) which I myself 
had set to music. Apparently he thought I had not 
been very successful in the attempt. 

It has always been interesting to me to observe how 
unreliable are occupation and environment in affording 



1 66 

clues to the mind and disposition of people to whom 
one may perhaps casually assign a certain mentality 
because of their surrounding circumstances. Of course 
I am not alone in forming this conclusion. It has 
become a foible of mine, from which I have now and 
then got much pleasure, and some amusement, to be 
on the alert to note and study natural talent flourishing 
in uncongenial or unexpected places. My cabman 
friend and my poultry-keeping correspondent afford 
instances. Another comes to my mind in the person 
of a waiter. He has now disappeared, but when I 
knew him he flourished at a well-known restaurant 
where some social functions were wont to be held in 
connection with a certain musical society. My waiter 
revealed himself as a scientific musician. One evening, 
whilst handing me the wine-list, he took the opportunity, 
after the confidential manner of his craft, of opening a 
small conversation. Then, to my great surprise, he 
went on to say how much he liked my primer on 
" Counterpoint," in his zeal there and then pro- 
ducing the book from his coat-tail pocket. Later I 
learned that he was very fond of organ-playing. I 
wondered, however, if sometimes, to their intense 
amazement, he inadvertently handed the guests my 
" Counterpoint " instead of the wine-list. 

I once contributed a short poem to Punch. It was a 
parody on the well-known song " Sally in our Alley," 
and it owed its origin to the fact that Mr. Labouchere, 
familiarly known as " Labby," bought a house abutting 
on the Cloisters of Westminster Abbey, which could be 
plainly seen from my own windows. This induced me 
to write " Labby in our Abbey." It was at the time 
when Mr. Balfour was often called " Bomba " by the 
Irish Members, and when the Ministers were supposed 
to be taking advantage of the Septennial Act. My 
poem fits the tune of " Sally in our Alley " excellently 



"LABBY IN OUR ABBEY' 167 

well, and I have sung it myself more than once at 
musical dinners. Sir George Grove brought it to the 
notice of the Editor of Putuh, who inserted it, but with 
a few little emendations of his own. These, I may 
say, did not have my full approval ! Its authorship 
was not stated, but it was said to be by a 
" Westminster Chorister," which was coming pretty 
near home. I append the words : 

Of all the boys that are so smart 

There 's none like crafty Labby : 
He learns the secret of each heart, 

And lives near our Abbey. 
There is no lawyer in the land 

That 's half so sharp as Labby ; 
He is a demon in the art, 

And guileless as a Babby. 

For " Bomba Balfour " in the week 

There seems to be no worse day 
Than is the one that comes betwixt 

A Tuesday and a Thursday. 
For then we read each foul misdeed, 

" Unmanly, mean, and shabby," 
Exposed to view in type so true 

By penetrating Labby. 

The Ministers and Members all 

Make game of truthful Labby, 
Though but for him 'tis said they'd be 

A sleepy set and flabby. 
And when their seven long years are out 

They hope to bury Labby ; 
Ah ? then how peacefully he'll lie, 

But, not in our Abbey ! ! 



CHAPTER XIII. 

Diamond jubilee Celebration Knighthood Sir William Gowers 
Sir William Crookes : " Timing " a Knighthood Dean Hole and 
his " West Front " The " Flag of England " Mr. Rudyard 
Kipling and his Poem Funeral Service for Mr. Gladstone 
The Duke of Westminster and " Westminster Bridge." 

THE year 1896 was fairly uneventful so far as my 
work at the Abbey was concerned, but in 1897 came 
the Diamond Jubilee of Her Majesty Queen Victoria. 
This was not celebrated in the Abbey, as was the 1887 
Jubilee. Mainly it was spectacular, and wholly for 
the people, and as part of this scheme Her Majesty 
attended a short service held on the steps of St. Paul's 
Cathedral. The Abbey choir was included in the 
fine choral body organized by Sir George Martin, 
an inspiring and notable performance of a Te Deum 
composed by him for the occasion being given. 
About a fortnight before the Jubilee I had the pleasure 
of receiving a letter from the Marquess of Salisbury 
saying that he had recommended me for the honour ot 
Knighthood, and adding: "It affords me satisfaction 
to be authorised to inform you that Her Majesty has 
approved the honour in recognition of your long 
services, and of the high position which you occupy in 
the profession with which your name is so honourably 
connected." 

I need hardly say I was much gratified, and 
returned a suitable reply. But it was for the time 
being a secret, and was not made known until the list 
appeared on the morning of the Jubilee. On meeting 



TIMING A KNIGHTHOOD 169 

the choir at St. Paul's I was congratulated by many, 
while all seemed pleased that Martin and I should 
have been selected for this great honour. 

I went to Osborne to receive the accolade, travelling 
from Victoria by a special train in the company of 
eleven others who also were to be knighted. It 
proved a pleasant journey. After luncheon we were 
marshalled in a corridor, to be in turn ushered into the 
Royal Presence. As I came out of the room I observed 
Prof. William Crookes with his watch in his hand. 
He too was about to be knighted, and as he put up his 
watch he casually remarked that he had been seeing 
" how long it took to knight a man." The passion for 
acquiring scientific knowledge did not desert him even 
at that moment. 

My companion in the carriage in which we drove to 
Osborne was Dr. Gowers, a celebrated nerve-specialist, 
after that day to be known as Sir William Gowers. 
His conversation was very interesting, and a remark of 
his clings to my memory, viz. : " For fifty years I have 
worked in the mines of medicine, now this comes just 
in time to lubricate the machinery." We there and 
then struck up a great friendship. Later he came 
frequently to the Abbey organ-loft, and being well 
acquainted with Mr. Rudyard Kipling, was kind 
enough to speak to him concerning my wish to set 
some of his poems. Some years afterwards I found in 
Sir William a very kind and candid adviser. My nerves 
were rather bad, and feeling myself generally over- 
strained after the Coronation (in 1902), I consulted him 
professionally. He was very downright in his summing 
up, so much so that his manner would have frightened 
some people. After examining me, he said : " Your 
heart is all right and your brain is all right, and you 
are not going to have paralysis, which I suppose 
you have feared. But you must go to H arrogate for 



170 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

three weeks!" This took my breath away. Never 
before had I been compelled to absent myself from my 
Abbey duties on account of illness for more than a day 
or two. "That's impossible," I at once ejaculated. 

"I might manage a fortnight, but ." "Three 

weeks," he retorted, " if not, you'll possibly have to 
carry your arm in a sling for months ! " So 1 went. 

For a few years after the ceremony of the Jubilee 
knighthood at Osborne, those of us who had met there 
on the same day dined together once a year. Alas ! 
as time sped, the knights at that table grew fewer, and, 
their parts played in the great symphony of life, one by 
one that little company extinguished each his candle 
and stole away into the unknown region. To-day 
but one or two remain to think upon days that are 
accomplished and faces that have vanished. 

Dean Hole wrote me a most kind letter upon my 
knighthood, wishing that my dear " father had lived to 
see it." I gave a lecture in aid of the restoration of 
the West Front of Rochester Cathedral, and the Dean 
very humorously moved a vote of thanks to me for, as he 
said, "contributing to the restoration of My West Front " 
striking himself on the chest as he said the words ! 

Among other gratifying incidents of my knighthood 
were the many letters of congratulation that flowed in 
upon me from numerous friends, a few of which 
I venture to append. One, from the Bishop of 
Winchester,* is dated at Farnham Castle, Surrey : 

11 June 2.2nd, 1897. 

" MY DEAR SIR FREDERICK, Warmest congratula- 
tions on an honour which will give genuine pleasure 
to your many friends old and young, and not least to 

" Yours very truly, 

RANDALL WINTON." 

:; Now Archbishop of Canterbury. 



CONGRATULATORY LETTERS 171 

My dear friend Sir George Grove wrote to me as 
follows : 

" Lower Sydenham, S.E., 

" June zyth, 1897. 

" DEAR SIR FREDERICK, and my very good old friend 
and helper, I can only give you three lines, but they 
must be of hearty congratulation to Lady Bridge and 
yourself on the honour which has been conferred on you 
and which I hope you may enjoy for many years to come. 
" Always, My Dear Sir Frederick, 

" Your affectionate friend, 

" G. GROVE." 

Sir John Stainer sent the following characteristic 
note : 

11 South Parks Road, 

" Oxford, 
"July 22nd, 1897. 

" DEAR BRIDGE, I beg your acceptance of a 
Magdalen Coll. 'tun'* as a token of my pleasure on 
your knighthood, and my gratitude for your kindness to 

" Yours truly, 

"J. STAINER." 

The publishing house of Novello, through the head 
of the firm, the late Mr. Alfred H. Littleton, marked 
the Diamond Jubilee year in engaging fashion- 
at the same time conferring an additional honour on 
Sir George Martin and myself in giving practical 
shape to the scheme referred to in the following circular 
letter : 

June 30th, 1897. 

" MY DEAR SIR, A suggestion has been made by 
one of the most prominent of our Cathedral organists 
that this year of Her Majesty's Diamond Jubilee would 

* A silver flagon to contain Magdalen ale. 



172 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

offer an opportunity for the organists of our various 
Cathedrals to meet together in a friendly way for the 
purpose of mutual intercourse and of becoming per- 
sonally acquainted with each other. 

" The distinguished honour which Her Majesty the 
Queen has recently conferred upon Cathedral organists 
in the Knighthood of Sir Frederick Bridge and Sir 
George Martin is an additional reason for such a 
meeting as has been suggested. 

" I therefore venture to hope that your engagements 
will permit you to accept the enclosed invitation to 
meet Sir Frederick Bridge and Sir George Martin, 
and your other fellow Cathedral organists, who I hope 
will honour me with their company on the occasion. 
" Yours very sincerely, 

" ALFRED H. LITTLETON." 

The outcome was a delightful reunion that proved 
interesting and was probably unique. The function took 
place on July i6th, when Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Littleton 
entertained to dinner at their house in Devonshire Place 
all the chief musicians of the principal Cathedrals in 
the United Kingdom. Some very diverting speeches 
were made, among the speakers being Dr. E. J. 
Hopkins, then in his eightieth year. 

For performance by the Royal Choral Society at 
the Albert Hall, in the Diamond Jubilee year, 1897, 
I wrote "The Flag of England" Choral Ballad, 
words by Rudyard Kipling, Her Majesty the Queen 
graciously accepting the dedication. This composition 
has a curious history. I first heard the poem quoted, 
or a portion of it, in a sermon in the Abbey by Canon 
Farrar. Going to him to ask whose it was, I learned 
that the author was Rudyard Kipling. Canon Farrar 
gave me a copy of the poem, remarking at the same 
time how finely it would go to music. 



"THE FLAG OF ENGLAND" 173 

I thereupon wrote to Mr. Rudyard Kipling with 
a view to securing his permission to set the poem 
to music. He replied very cordially to my letter, 
placing his poem entirely at my disposal, saying : 
" You are at entire liberty to use as much or as little of 
it as you may think necessary or musically practicable : 
and if I can make any of the words more open I 
shall be happy to do so." I had ventured upon some 
suggestions to him with regard to an Epilogue, which 

I had thought might appropriately end the work from 
the musician's point of view. But to this he demurred, 
for the reason that " any addition would be a somewhat 
violent wrench to the verses." Needless to say, I did 
not press the point any further. 

Upon getting to work on the poem I was mortified to 
find that after completing about two-thirds of it my 
inspiration failed, so that I really could not just then 
invent a satisfactory conclusion ; whereupon it was 
put away for a while in my study drawer. When the 
time for the Jubilee drew near, Mr. Alfred H. Littleton 
called on me one day, and said, '* We want you to set 
a poem to music which will come in handy 
for the Jubilee " ; whereat he produced the words of 

II The Banner of St. George." Instantly my mind 
went to my unfinished work. I answered, " Wait 
a moment, let me read you a poem which is also 
suitable to the event, and that I have already started 
upon." His interest was at once kindled in " The 
Flag of England," and putting the other poem in his 
pocket he asked me if at once I could go on with 
mine. I did so, and, as already stated, we performed 
it at the Albert Hall. It proved to be the most 
successful of any of my Choral Ballads. 

In this year we had the funeral service of 
Princess Mary Duchess of Teck. The following 
year, 1898, Mr. Gladstone died, and was buried in 



174 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

the Abbey, a great and distinguished congregation 
attending. It is recorded of the veteran statesman that 
in his eighty-fifth year, in the course of an address to 
twenty thousand people gathered under the walls of 
Hawarden Castle, he uttered these words : " Music is 
of enormous advantage both to those who hear and 
those who perform it. It is a great blessing to the 
people, and I think that there are few satisfactions in 
my mind greater than to witness the progress it has 
made in the course of the last fifty years." Of Mr. 
Gladstone's personal attainments in music, it is said 
that he used to play the violoncello and possessed a 
charming tenor voice. Judging only from his speaking 
voice, one can easily believe this to be true. It is 
interesting to recall that in the midst of the long and 
patiently borne sufferings of his last illness, he found a 
solace in consoling music. His special interest in 
Church music is well known. For the funeral service 
the choir of the Abbey was augmented by those of the 
Chapel Royal, St. Paul's Cathedral, the Temple 
Church, and St. Margaret's, Westminster. The music 
performed on this occasion comprised among other 
numbers a Funeral-Equale for four trombones, by 
Beethoven, Schubert's March in B minor, the Dead 
March in " Saul," Beethoven's March in A fiat minor, 
Service music by Croft and by Purcell, and hymns. 

The Right Hon. Herbert Gladstone (now Lord 
Gladstone) sent me the following letter shortly after 
the funeral, which I am gratified in being able to 
append : 

<; Hawarden, 

May 30//J, 1898. 

" DEAR SIR FREDERICK BRIDGE, Accept our grati- 
tude for the most beautiful music you gave us last 
Saturday at the Abbey. Nothing could have been 
more solemn and sustaining, and we shall carry the 



FUNERAL OF MR. GLADSTONE 175 

recollection of it all our lives. We could wish to thank 
all who contributed to it, but that is beyond our power, 
though perhaps in some quarters you may be able and 
kind enough to make it known what we feel. 
" Very sincerely yours, 

" HERBERT J. GLADSTONE." 

In 1899 there was celebrated in the Abbey a thanks- 
giving service for Queen Victoria's eightieth birthday. 
Later in the same year came the funeral service for the 
Duke of Westminster. His Grace used to delight to 
call me " Westminster Bridge." This well-known 
sobriquet was bestowed upon me by old Sir John Goss, 
who, when I was appointed to the Abbey, wrote to 
me at Manchester to congratulate me, adding that he 
was going to a dinner that night, and should propose 
the toast of " Westminster Bridge." 

Following quickly upon the memorable service 
for Mr. Gladstone, came the death of Sir Edward 
Burne-Jones. It was indeed appropriate that this great 
artist and craftsman should receive a fitting tribute in 
the glorious West Minster that conserves in its fabric 
so much of the soul of art, wrought by master crafts- 
men through the centuries. 

I venture to give some extracts from a letter 
that I received shortly afterwards from Lady Burne- 
Jones : 

July 22nd, 1918. 

"DEAR SIR FREDERICK BRIDGE, I cannot rest with- 
out writing to you to thank you with all my heart for 
the beauty of the music you made at the Memorial 
service in Westminster Abbey. . . . 

" We never forget the most kind offer you made on 
the one visit you paid to us to give us the benefit of 
your judgment about our organ that you would some 
evening let us come and sit quietly in the Abbey and 
hear you playing there ; and it was always a pleasant 



176 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

contemplation that it would take place someday. But 
we never claimed the fulfilment of the promise, and 
now you have kept your share of it, and I thank you 
for myself and for my children. 

" Nothing else in the world could have done for us 
just what that service did and we shall never, never 

forget li " " GEORGIANA BURNE-]ONES." 

In 1900 we had a memorial service to John Ruskin ; 
also the funeral of Mrs. Gladstone, who was interred 
in the Abbey by the side of her husband. 

In January, 1901, the Rev. H. E. Ryle, D.D., was 
consecrated Bishop of Exeter, and in February we had 
a special memorial service on the occasion of the 
funeral of Queen Victoria. For this service the anthem 
I wrote for Browning's funeral (" He giveth his beloved 
sleep," a setting of words by Mrs. Browning) was 
again performed, and I also arranged an elegy from the 
celebrated " Manzoni Requiem " for brass and organ. 

At Christmas, 1901, I received the following gracious 
letter from H.R.H. The Duchess of Albany, along with 
the gift therein referred to, to speak of which recalls 
many incidents that filled those " pleasant evenings " 
that, viewed by recent events, now seem so far away : 

" Villa Ingenheim, 

" Wildpark, 
" (Potsdam) Germany. 

"December i^th, 1901. 

" DEAR SIR FREDERICK, The Duchess of Albany is 
sending you by this post a little pin, which she hopes 
you will wear sometimes in remembrance of the very 
pleasant evenings you have been the means of giving 
her in the Abbey. 

"With all good wishes of the Season, 
" Very truly yours, 

"R. H. COLLINS." 




HENRY PURCELL, 1658-1695. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

Coronation of Their Majesties King Edward VII. and Queen 
Alexandra Earl Marshal's Letter The Bishop of Winchester 
and the Music Canon Armitage Robinson and his Valuable 
Work A learned Gillie Musicians who contributed to the 
Service The Problem of the " Vivats " A Veteran Singer from 
Wells. 

THE year 1902 presents a varied chronicle. We saw 
some changes in the Abbey Chapter, Bishop Welldon 
being installed as Canon, while later in the year 
Canon Armitage Robinson became Dean in place of 
Dr. Bradley, who for the long period of twenty-one 
years had held sway, and now retired. But the event 
of outstanding interest was the Coronation of Their 
Majesties King Edward VII. and Queen Alexandra. 

This was a matter of absorbing interest to me. I 
very naturally desired that the direction of the music 
at this great ceremony should be placed in my hands, 
hoping that the experience I had had in arranging 
the Royal Jubilee Service in 1887, and the success 
which attended those efforts, would be remembered 
in my favour. It was not at all a foregone conclusion 
that I should be selected as " chief musician." 
For the purposes of a Coronation the Abbey is 
for the time being taken over and administered by a 
Coronation committee, of which the Earl-Marshal is 
hereditary head ; and this committee can recommend 
whom they please to direct the music. So far as I can 
learn, no organist of the Abbey since Purcell's time 
had directed the music of a Coronation until it fell to 
my lot to do so. The Coronation music of William IV. 
and Queen Victoria was all in the hands of 
Sir George Smart, the organist of the Chapel Royal, 

N 



178 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

St. James's. He of course was the great man of that 
time, conducting many of the festivals, &c. ; yet, as 
will be seen later, he was not director by virtue of 
his office as organist of the Chapel Royal, but was 
nominated by the King. 

My anxiety was set at rest by a kind letter from the 
Bishop of Winchester, Dr. Randall Davidson, telling 
me that, as would shortly be communicated to me 
officially by the Coronation committee, it had been 
decided that I should be asked to accept the respon- 
sibility for the musical arrangements in connection with 
the Coronation ; also that, arising therefrom, I should 
further be requested to take counsel with Sir Walter 
Parratt, the Master of the King's Musick, in order, 
said the Bishop, " to let him share the responsibility 
which must ultimately and formally be yours." His 
Lordship added, " I am very glad the responsibility is 
placed in your hands. I found no difficulty in carrying 
my resolution to that effect, and the King wholly 
approves, and your friendship with Parratt ensures all 
going smoothly and well in your co-operation." 

I need not say I was only too glad to have Sir Walter's 
help, and no one ever had a kinder, more considerate, 
and wiser colleague than I found in him. 

In a few days I received the Resolution of the 
Coronation committee, together with the following 
letter from the Earl-Marshal, His Grace The Duke of 
Norfolk : 

" Earl-Marshal's Office, 

" Norfolk House, 
" St. James's Square, S.W., 

"December iSth t 1901. 

" SIR, I forward herewith a Copy of a Resolution 
recently passed by the Executive Committee for the 
purposes of the ensuing Coronation of their Majesties, 



A FORTUNATE FAILURE 179 

and desire to request that in accordance therewith you 
will be good enough to undertake the management of 
the Music in Westminster Abbey on that occasion. 
" I have the honour to be, Sir, 

" Your obedient servant, 
" NORFOLK, 

" Earl-Marshal." 

The Bishop of Winchester was good enough to 
inform me upon certain points which I should bear 
in mind when selecting the music. One was brevity. 
Further, no anthem was to be sung except " when 
something was going on," so as to avoid prolonging 
the service. And the Te Deum, Creed, &c., were to be 
simple, short, and dignified. 

These suggestions were very useful to me, and 
particularly the direction that no long anthems were 
wanted. I need not say that later on I got an immense 
number of irresponsible suggestions from all manner 
of sources concerning what ought to be done, also a 
good many poems and anthems which their respective 
authors would have wished me to include. But the 
Bishop's direction saved me much trouble. 

Yet I may add that I was myself guilty of trying to 
obtain a fanfare for trumpets, which had been 
recommended to me as having been played in 
Germany, at, I think, one of Joachim's concerts. 

Application was made through our Ambassador at 
Berlin, Sir Frank Lascelles, to procure for me 
permission to use this fanfare at the Coronation ; but 
the reply was that the Emperor's permission was 
necessary for the transmission of the music. The 
Emperor was away in Alsace ; meanwhile the 
Ambassador wrote that he imagined that " His 
Imperial Majesty would be pleased to do anything 
that would add to the grandeur of the Coronation 



180 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

solemnity." I failed, however, to obtain this fanfare, 
and I need hardly say now that my want of success 
was very fortunate. 

It was no small embarrassment that there had been 
no Coronation for upwards of sixty years, and it was 
impossible to find anyone who had attended the 
Coronation of Queen Victoria who was competent to 
give useful information concerning the music employed 
on that occasion. Curiously enough there were two 
members of the choir who had actually sung at the 
Coronation of Queen Victoria, and one of them also 
had sung at the Coronation of William IV., but they 
were very young choristers then, and could really tell 
me nothing of value. 

Among many important discussions were those 
which I had with Canon Armitage Robinson, who was 
very learned in Coronation service lore, and took an 
immense deal of trouble about the matter. I had to 
suggest where the band and choir could be placed 
to the greatest advantage, having regard to all the 
restrictions imposed, and this proved a very difficult 
problem, every inch of room being wanted by the 
authorities for the congregation. The experience 
that I had gained at the Jubilee in 1887, however, stood 
me in good stead, while the Office of Works showed 
every desire to help to their utmost. In choosing 
the music I had to follow exactly the form of service 
prepared by the Archbishop of Canterbury ; but 
the words of the " Homage " anthem were not 
in the official programme, and these ! myself 
selected. In connection with this anthem I may 
perhaps put on record a little anecdote touching 
Archbishop Temple. I forwarded to the Archbishop's 
chaplain the words which I thought appropriate for the 
anthem, asking if His Grace would approve them so 
that I could set to work on the composition. Some 



A REMARKABLE GILLIE 181 

delay took place, and I began to get rather anxious, so 
I wrote again, asking if possible for an early reply 
from His Grace. A day or two afterwards Canon 
Armitage Robinson told me he had been at Lambeth 
Palace the night before, and the Archbishop had 
referred to my anxiety in the following terms : 
"Bridge is anxious about his music; tell him that's 
his job, not mine." I took this for assent, and began 
at once to set the words to music. 

I had the opportunity of getting away for about a 
fortnight for a little fishing on the River Awe in 
Scotland, and it was by the side of this fine river that 
I did most of the work upon my anthem while my wife 
fished. Here I may digress for a moment to mention an 
interesting incident that came under my notice at this 
time, showing the industry and pluck of a Scotsman. 
We were staying at an hotel, and the landlord found for 
us a gillie to carry our rods, bags, luncheon, &c., down 
to the river and generally to attend to our wants after 
the manner of gillies. Our acquisition proved to be 
a quiet young man with something in his manner 
and address that quickly arrested my attention. 
Thus it fell out that while my wife was fishing and 
I was busy composing, I looked up occasionally, 
and noticed our gillie engrossed in a book, which after- 
wards I discovered was a treatise in Greek. My wife 
and I were a bit surprised, and wondered who it was 
we had taken into our employ. Later in the day 
the gillie called my wife's attention to a certain 
flower as belonging to a species that was very rare. 
We made up our minds that here indeed was " a chieF 
takin' notes," and on getting back to the hotel we 
privately asked the landlord who the gillie was. It 
appeared he was not a regular gillie, but the son of 
the schoolmaster in the village, and was in fact at the 
time an undergraduate in one of the Scotch Universities. 



i82 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Being home for a short vacation, he had gladly taken 
this opportunity of earning a little money to pay his 
expenses at college. I felt rather shy at his pulling off 
my waders and brogues the next day, but he made no 
trouble of it, and continued to wait on us during the 
whole of our stay. 

This is by no means a solitary case of the kind ; 
and it brings to my mind that a friend, an under- 
graduate of Oxford, while shooting in Scotland, had 
an even more striking experience than mine, for 
he discovered among the beaters a scholar of his own 
college. 

To return to the Coronation. In selecting the music 
for the service I finally determined upon a scheme 
which would embrace a period of five centuries of 
English Church music, from i6th century Marbeck and 
Tallis to composers of the present day ; the lyth 
century being represented by the honoured names of 
Orlando Gibbons and Henry Purcell; the i8th by 
Handel, with his masterly Coronation anthem, " Zadok 
the Priest ; " and the igth century by Samuel Sebastian 
Wesley, Arthur Sullivan, John Stainer, and Charles 
Villiers Stanford. In addition to these names special 
anthems were composed by Sir Hubert Parry, Sir 
Walter Parratt, and by myself. 

Among the difficult problems that faced me was how 
to include the time-honoured privilege and duty of the 
Westminster boys to acclaim the King and Queen 
with their " Vivats." The entrance of their Majesties 
was to be made to the singing in procession of the 
Psalm, " I was glad when they said unto me, we will 
go into the house of the Lord," yet it seemed that 
traditionally also they were simultaneously to be 
greeted with stentorian shouts from the Westminster 
scholars of " Vivat Regina Alexandra!" and " Vivat 
Rex Edwardus ! " 



A STROKE OF GENIUS 183 

I could see no better way than to arrange that 
these shouts should come in at the moment that 
their Majesties passed under the Screen into the 
Choir. Sir Hubert Parry most cleverly fitted in the 
" Vivats " to a sort of folk-song with an orchestral 
symphony between the first and second parts of the 
anthem, before the verse beginning " O pray for the 
peace of Jerusalem." It was a real stroke of genius, 
though I may perhaps claim a little credit for having 
suggested this arrangement. But I had a bad quarter 
of an hour as the time drew near to begin the choir 
rehearsals. The Captain of Westminster School called 
on me, and very politely but very seriously said that 
he was deputed by the School to represent that they 
did not approve of the arrangement, and thought it did 
not give due prominence to the ancient right of the 
School ! I asked what he proposed. He had nothing 
to suggest, but apparently thought that the West- 
minster boys might shout their fealty during the 
service as and when they thought fit. 

I said that such a procedure would produce, to say 
the least, a harsh dissonance, as well as cause a terrible 
interruption in the music, while being also somewhat 
irreverent ; and I pointed out that with the large choir 
of nearly five-hundred voices and a full orchestra the 
cries of some forty boys from the Triforium would 
not be very effective or at all impressive. Further I 
called his attention to the fact that by my arrangement 
the scholars were allotted a special effect in the 
anthem, for which they ought to be grateful, and 
indeed ought loyally to strive to make as striking as 
possible. Finally I persuaded him to agree to prevail 
upon the boys to wait until they had tried their 
" Vivats" in rehearsal in the manner suggested. 
The rehearsal took place in the Church House, the 
Westminster scholars being stationed in the gallery 



184 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

above the choir. I am glad to say the effect was so 
good that their objection vanished, but the incident 
gave me some anxious moments for a few days. It is 
not pleasant to fight the captain of a public school if 
the school is persuaded that you are interfering with 
one of its ancient rights. 

It is curious that in the official book of the Coronation 
sent to me by the Bishop of Winchester there was no 
mention of the "Vivats," or of the place where these 
shouts should occur. The headmaster of Westminster 
kindly sent me the following interesting note on the 
matter, showing what was done at the Coronation 
of George IV. : 

" 19, Dean's Yard, 

" April 8th, 1902. 

U DEAR SIR FREDERICK BRIDGE, I have some extracts 
from letters written by R. N. Gresley, a King's Scholar, 
written just before and just after the Coronation of 
George IV. 

"Writing on June i8th, 1821, just before the 
Coronation, he says, ' This time, as the anthem will 
not be over when he [the King] comes in, immediately 
that it is, we are to sing out as loud as we can " Vivat 
Georgius Rex," raising our voices at the end in a 
curious way.' Writing on June 2Oth, just after the 
Coronation, he says, * When the anthem was over, 
Goodenough cleared his voice with a hem, and sang out 
melodiously. We then shouted, " Vivat Georgius Rex " 
six times, and we shouted and clapped gloriously at the 
Recognition and at other times during the ceremony.' 

" At that time the organ was at the West end of 
the Nave, and the boys were in the front row of the 
organ-loft. 

" With kind regards, 

" Very truly yours, 

"J. Gow." 



A PLEASANT REVENGE 185 

On that occasion, however, as Dr. Gow remarks, a 
special organ was erected at the West end, while the 
Westminster boys were in the same gallery, and it 
would seem that the " Vivats " came after the King and 
Queen had taken their seats. I venture to think that 
my plan was by far the more reverent and effective. 

It is interesting to record that I took my revenge in 
pleasant fashion for the momentary opposition of the 
School. When the time came for the distribution of 
the Coronation medals to the choir and band, the 
Westminster boys were also put down as recipients. 
I was sent for and interrogated by Sir Frederick 
Ponsonby as to their claim to this distinction. " These 
medals," said Sir Frederick, " are for the choir and 
band ; what have the Westminster scholars to do 
with that ? " I produced for him a copy of the 
anthem in which the " Vivats " occurred, wherein 
the music contained the direction, " King's Scholars 
of Westminster School." That settled the question. 
Sir Frederick at once acquiesced, the boys got their 
medals, while the Captain graciously admitted to 
me that I had done the School a service. 

In organizing the large choir, I was anxious to 
make it very representative, not only of professional 
but also of amateur musicians. The complete choirs 
of the Chapel Royal, St. Paul's, St. George's, Windsor, 
and the Abbey choir formed the backbone of the 
choral side, the members constituting this body being 
paid a moderate fee. I was also able to extend 
this privilege to the complete choir of Rochester 
Cathedral, where I was educated. Along with the fore- 
going, the Organists and Precentors of the various 
Cathedral and Collegiate Churches throughout the 
country were invited, a few representatives from each 
choir also taking part. To these were added members 
of important Church and Chapel choirs, of choral 



i86 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

societies, and of the old Madrigal Society, also many 
well-known amateurs from all over the kingdom, 
Ireland not being excluded. 

One veteran from Wells had sung at the Coronation 
of William IV., being then a choir-boy at Windsor. 
Canon Armitage Robinson specially asked me to include 
him, and I was glad to admit this vocalist without 
trying his voice ! The band included the King's Private 
Band (of which Sir Walter Parratt is conductor), also 
a good many of the best instrumentalists from the 
chief orchestras. All the details of the choir were 
most admirably administered by the choir secretary, 
Mr. Henry King, the affairs of the band being in 
the very capable hands of Dr. John E. Borland. This 
gentleman was invaluable, and in the midst of a host 
of important duties found time to improvise special 
signals to the band and choir in order to insure 
complete harmony between the musical programme 
and the progress of the ceremony. This proved to 
be a piece of foresight most fortunately conceived, 
as will be seen later. 

It was very necessary carefully to consider the means 
available for controlling the very large choir, because 
the members were placed in specially erected galleries 
North and South of the choir screen, many choristers 
being in fact seated behind the organ. At former 
Coronations, when, it will be remembered, the choir 
was assembled in a gallery at the West end of the 
Nave, the voices would have a better chance. The 
best arrangement that I could make for the instru- 
mentalists was to assemble them on a platform erected 
on the choir screen. As thus arranged, the effect of the 
combined choral and instrumental forces was really 
quite satisfactory. 



CHAPTER XV. 

Coronation (contd.) Composers and their Contributions Sir Francis 
Bertie and Dr. Saint-Satins Rehearsals in the Abbey for the 
Processions Postponement of the Coronation King Edward 
and the Music at the Postponed Ceremony The " Vivats " at 
the Coronation The Procession of the Regalia Trinity College 
of Music and Foundation of King Edward Chair. 

RECURRING to the Homage anthem which I had 
undertaken to set, I found when fairly embarked 
upon it that it presented still another difficulty. Of 
former Coronations it was recorded that the " Homage " 
ceremony had taken a long time, so on this occasion 
it was arranged that only representatives of the 
various Orders should do Homage, and I was 
particularly enjoined not to make the anthem too long. 
Accordingly I arranged for a "cut" in the anthem 
should it be necessary, and this was carefully arranged 
for in the system of signals already referred to. 
(In the event, however, as will be seen, no cut was 
necessary.) 

Applications to take part in the choir or to have 
compositions performed were very numerous. As 
already stated, the ideal that I set before me was to 
hold an even balance between the just claims of 
representative musicians, professional and amateur, 
throughout the country to take part in the historic 
occasion. But some people were not above going 
behind my back, and endeavouring to bring pressure 
to bear. One great lady wrote to ask that a singer she 
was interested in should be included, and because I 
did not immediately say " Yes," actually applied to the 
highest circles ! This indeed brought forth a letter 
commending the applicant to my notice, but it 



188 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

concluded, " You are in no sense to take this as a 
Command, but to do as you like in the matter." I need 
not say how much I appreciated this consideration. 

A number of composers sent in Marches and all kinds 
of music, every item of which was handed to me, one 
or two foreign musicians also sending works. Among 
the most notable of these was Dr. Saint-Saens, of 
whose well-known " Coronation March," and his desire 
to have it performed at King Edward's Coronation, I 
first heard from Sir Francis Bertie. The Ambassador 
wrote to me as follows from the British Embassy at 
Paris : 

" May 1 6th, 1902. 

" DEAR SIR FREDERICK BRIDGE, Lord Lansdowne 
desires me to inform you that the French Ambassador 
told him on the I4th instant that Monsieur Saint-Saens, 
the French composer, who has had the honour of 
playing on several occasions before the Queen, has 
composed a March in honour of the King's Coronation, 
and that he is very anxious that it should be played 
during the Coronation festivities. 

" Lord Lansdowne told Monsieur Cambon that he felt 
sure that the King would appreciate the compliment, and 
that he would endeavour to ascertain whether anything 
could be done to meet Monsieur Saint-Saens's wishes. 

" It has been suggested to Lord Lansdowne that 
Monsieur Saint-Saens should be placed in communica- 
tion with you, and his Lordship has suggested to the 
Ambassador that Monsieur Saint-Saens should apply 
to you, and wishes me to ask you to receive him. 

" If Lord Lansdowne is mistaken in thinking that 
Monsieur Saint-Saens should be referred to you, 
perhaps you will be kind enough to let me know to 
whom he should apply. Yours truly, 

" FRANCIS BERTIE." 



A FORTUITOUS COMPOSITION 189 

I at once replied that I should be honoured by being 
made the recipient of a work by Dr. Saint-Saens, that 
he had specially composed for such an occasion. It 
was indeed a happy collocation of events that it should 
have been possible to include in the musical scheme 
a representative work by the doyen of French musicians. 
In finding a place in my programme for this March, 
I could not of course have foreseen the significance 
that its inclusion might have in the larger 
question of the rapprochement which so happily and 
benefically developed with the great French nation 
after King Edward's memorable visit to France in 1903. 

Sir Francis Bertie evidently lost no time in handing 
my reply to Dr. Saint-Saens, for on the 27th of May I 
received the following autograph letter from the French 
composer himself: 

" 2,jth May, 1902. 

" MY DEAR SIR, Very much obliged to you for your 
kindness towards my ' Coronation March.' 
" Yours very truly, 

" And gratefully, 

" C. SAINT-SAENS." 

Dr. Saint-Saens came over and himself rehearsed 
the performance of his March. Unfortunately, how- 
ever, he could not come on the postponed date 
(August gth, 1902) of the Coronation, and it fell to me 
to conduct his work. 

Of people who wanted to be present and thought I 
could " put them into a corner of the organ-loft," their 
name was legion. One lady outdid all by writing that 
"her dear mother had never seen a Coronation, and 
she would like to give her that treat before she died ! " 

It was not only at the Coronation service that such 
applications for admission to the Abbey were made. 
On all occasions of important special services 



igo A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

notwithstanding notices in the Press that no applica- 
tions for tickets should be made to the Abbey officials 
every post would bring me many letters. For the 
Coronation many begged for tickets for their families ; 
the greater number sought that " quiet corner in the 
organ-loft," the existence ol which they were appa- 
rently persuaded only they had thought of ! My door-bell 
became a veritable nuisance, and I remember that once 
I had become so desperate that I wrote a large placard 
and displayed it on my door, to the effect that " Sir 
Frederick Bridge has no Tickets, no Time, and no 
Temper! " It was soon surrounded by an amused 
crowd, but they ceased to ring my bell ! 

I have mentioned the rehearsals in Church House. 
These afforded occasions for many to hear the 
Coronation music who could not attend the Abbey, and 
by charging for admission we raised a large sum, 
which was distributed among various charities. 

Before the choir met to go through the music there 
were many rehearsals in the Abbey of various 
processions, particularly the great procession from the 
West door, which included the King and Queen. I was 
very anxious to know exactly how long it would take for 
their Majesties to reach the Choir, as the music would 
have to be in absolute accord with the progress of the 
retinue in order that the " Vivats " should come in at 
the proper moment. It proved a difficult detail to 
decide. The various officials were not always keenly 
alert in their obedience to the Earl-Marshal and his 
assistants sometimes they went too fast, sometimes 
too slow, and there were some amusing episodes. One 
of these, I remember, was when I could not quite make 
out the order of the Procession, and called to the Earl- 
Marshal from my perch up above, "Which is the King, 
your Grace?" "The man with the black cap," said 
he. This was dear old Sir Spencer Ponsonby Fane, 



THE VACUUM CLEANER igi 

with whom I had so much to do in the organiza- 
tion of the Jubilee Service in 1887. He quite enjoyed 
taking part, and represented the King on several 
occasions in the procession, his long train being 
carried by the pages in regal state. Occasionally he 
would wear a little skull cap, as stated above. 

A really funny incident which occurred during the 
Coronation rehearsals must not be omitted. Two 
ladies were standing in the Cloisters talking, when 
a sound from the Abbey arrested their attention. 
"Listen," said one, "that's Sir Walter Parratt at 
the organ." "Oh, no," said her friend, "that's not 
Sir Walter he can't play like that ! It's Sir Frederick 
Bridge." Unfortunately it was not the sound of the 
organ, but the noise made by a vacuum cleaner ! 

The great national sorrow and apprehension at the 
postponement of the Coronation, caused by King 
Edward's illness, is well known. None of the 
company assembled in the Abbey when the announce- 
ment was made will ever forget the shock ! Choir and 
band were all in their places on the day before that 
fixed for the ceremony. I was rehearsing some of the 
orchestral pieces, when a message reached me from 
Lord Esher, asking me to come and speak to him. 
I relinquished the conductorship to Sir Walter 
Parratt, and went down I must confess rather 
reluctantly for I had no premonition of what was 
coming. To my intense dismay Lord Esher said, " I 
am very sorry, you must send your forces away ; there 
will be no Coronation to-morrow." And he proceeded 
to tell me why. For the moment I was stunned 
and overcome, but returning to my place I stopped 
the proceedings, and made the sad announcement. 
It was received with an impressive silence, and 
then, in obedience to someone's well-timed suggestion, 
which found a response in all present, we sang the Litany 



ig2 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

and a hymn. Then, after some intercessory prayers for 
the King's recovery, we all separated. I remember 
saying to the choir and band, as they dispersed, " I 
hope we shall soon meet here again " an optimistic 
sentiment that, much as it was borne out by the event, 
I fear at the moment found small response in my 
own breast, for truly it seemed to me just then that all 
the labour, all the care, all the anxiety, all the devotion 
had been in vain. It speaks well for the patriotic zeal 
of the musical forces that although many members came 
from distant parts of the country, yet, when the 
Coronation did take place, only about a dozen were 
found to be absent. 

As soon as it was happily found possible to fix the 
new date for the ceremony the Bishop of Winchester 
again impressed upon me the necessity for as much 
brevity as I could consistently introduce into the music. 
And here I may perhaps relate a gracious act on the 
part of King Edward, and refer to a very kind action of 
Lord Esher. I told the latter that I was going still 
further to curtail my anthem, and he said, " The King 
does not want the music cut if it can be avoided." 
"Well," I answered, "I dare not do otherwise now, 
unless I am directed to have it all sung." In a day or 
two Lord Esher sent me the following note : 

" Delahay Street, 

" Westminster, 
" August 8th, 1902. 

" MY DEAR SIR FREDERICK, The King was most 
explicit in declaring his Command that there should 
be no curtailment of the musical part of the service. 
So please do not cut out anything from the anthem. 

" Yours sincerely, 

" ESHER." 

It was arranged that the Litany should be sung 
before the actual service (see page 194), and I provided 




SIR FREDERICK BRIDGE IN HIS DOCTOR'S ROBES. 
(From a photographlby Sir Benjamin' Stone.) 



A CRITICAL MOMENT 193 

a "cut" in the "Homage" anthem should it be 
required, also promising the Bishop of Winchester to let 
him know exactly how long the various musical items 
would take to perform. I am glad to be able to record 
that he told me after the event that I had proved 
absolutely correct in these details. 

At the postponed Coronation all went well, the 
Litany being sung early in the proceedings on the steps 
of Henry VII. 's Chapel by the Bishop of Oxford and 
the Bishop of Bath and Wells. I had the honour of 
rehearsing these two distinguished pupils, and they 
each accepted a Book of the Music from me as a 
reward for their keen attention to their studies ! 

The Processional anthem "I was glad" made a 
splendid effect, the Westminster boys' " Vivats " 
coming in with superb effect. And they had an extra 
chance also, for in consequence of His Majesty the 
King not entering the Choir until some time after Her 
Majesty the Queen, the " Vivats " had to be repeated. 
It was here that the value of Dr. Borland's system of 
signals, already referred to, was fully revealed, and my 
precaution in adopting them amply vindicated. The 
signals to the choir and band worked admirably, and 
I must add that Dr. Alcock (now organist of Salisbury 
Cathedral) at the organ extemporised so effectively 
that the whole affair, which might have proved an 
awkward moment if not a catastrophe, passed off as if 
it had been rehearsed as a part of the programme. 
Sir Walter Pariatt sat on the conductor's platform 
with me, taking his share in conducting the orchestral 
music and directing the performance of his own anthem. 

Concerning my Homage anthem no cut was 
necessary. The aged Archbishop Temple was a little 
slower over the ' 4 Homage " than we had anticipated, 
the music in its entirety being required to accompany 
this picturesque function. 



194 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

A striking feature of the ceremony was the Procession 
of the Regalia, which formed an early and interesting 
item in the day's proceedings. The Abbey clergy 
charged to bear the regal symbols from the Jerusalem 
Chamber into the Church were accompanied in pro- 
cession by the choir. Traversing the Cloisters, singing 
the hymn " Rejoice to day with one accord," to the 
grand old tune " Ein' feste Burg," a pause was made 
for a short service in Edward the Confessor's Chapel, 
and another pause near the Chapel of Henry VII., 
while Tallis's Litany was sung as above described ; 
then, supported by two trumpets and three trombones, 
the procession was resumed, to the strains of " O God, 
our help in ages past." At the last verse, as the singers 
comprising the choirs of the Abbey and the Chapel 
Royal neand the great West door, the hymn was taken 
up by the Coronation choir and the vast congregation, 
producing an unrehearsed climax of overwhelming 
majesty that will never be forgotten by those present. 

I left for m/ usual holiday in Scotland as soon as 
the Coronation was over, and a few days later received 
the gratifying intelligence that King Edward had been 
pleased to confer upon me the Fourth Class of the 
Royal Victorian Order. 

The prolonged anxiety I had almost uninterruptedly 
sustained in connection with directing the Coronation 
proceedings from early in the year till the consummation 
in August, had some effect on my usual good health. 
I developed a bad attack of neuritis in my left arm 
which caused me much pain, making it necessary for 
me to seek medical advice. I did not quite get over 
it for some months, when it yielded to treatment, and 
I am thankful to say it has never returned. 

And so ends the account of my participation in this 
great event. I am proud that it should have fallen to 
me to fill the office of chief musician, and am indeed 



KING EDWARD PROFESSOR 195 

grateful to all who assisted in making the event so 
impressive a musical ceremony and so worthy the 
occasion. Specially must I mention the late Sir 
George Martin, of St. Paul's, and my brother, Professor 
J. C. Bridge, Mus. Doc., of Chester Cathedral. They 
were most efficient sub-conductors, conveying my beat 
to members of the choir, many of whom, as I have said, 
being placed behind the organ, were unable to see and 
to follow the conductor-in-chief. 

The whole Book of the Service was published by 
Messrs. Novello, with a beautiful cover designed by 
Mr. John Clayton, the celebrated stained-glass expert. 
It was a great help to have all the music and the 
service assembled in one book, which thus preserves a 
valuable record for all future chief-musicians on similar 
occasions. 

In the Coronation year(igo2) Trinity College of Music 
devoted 5,000 to the endowment of a Chair of Music 
in the University of London. It was given " in honour 
of the Coronation of His Majesty King Edward VII.," 
and the King graciously allowed the Chair to be called 
the " King Edward VII. Professorship of Music," 
the University doing me the honour of electing me 
the first King Edward Professor. I have been 
re-elected at various times, the last occasion having 
been during the present year (1918). 



CHAPTER XVI. 

Interesting Details of the Musical Arrangements at Previous 
Coronations Meagre Choral Force at Coronation of William IV. 

- Letters of Sir George Smart Braham and Balfe Old 
Members of the Coronation Choir at Windsor Goss as a Lay- 
Vicar i8th Century Coronation Music. 

IT may afford interest to give some particulars of 
the musical arrangements at the two Coronations 
preceding that of King Edward. I am enabled to do 
so from the fact that, by the kindness of Miss Smart, 
I became possessed of some valuable papers of her 
father's, Sir George Smart, Director of the Music on 
those occasions. 

The choral force at the Coronation of William IV. 
was very meagre, consisting only of the choirs of the 
Chapel Royal, St. Paul's, Windsor,* and Westminster, 
with the addition of twenty-one choral singers. There 
were only eight boys and six Lay- Vicars from St. 
Paul's, and eight boys, three Lay- Vicars, and the 
organist from Windsor. The Priests and Minor Canons 
of the Chapel Royal and of Westminster Abbey were 
also in the choir gallery, I suppose helping in the 
choruses. Among those present in the choir gallery 
(as one of the Priests of the Chapel Royal and 
Minor Canon of St. Paul's) was the Rev. R. H. Barham, 
the author of the " Ingoldsby Legends," whom later 
we find attending at the Coronation of Queen Victoria. 
His amusing poem entitled " Mr. Barney Maguire's 

* It is curious that in suggesting the choirs of St. Paul's and Windsor, 
Sir George Smart adds, " not employed at the last Coronation." 



BRAHAM IN THE CHORUS 197 

Account of the Coronation '' is well known. One 
verse particularly alludes to Sir George Smart and 
his band : 

Then the Queen, Heaven bless her ! och, they did dress her 
In her purple garments and goulden crown : 
Like Venus or Hebe, or the Queen of Sheby 
With eight young ladies houlding up her gown. 
Sure 'twas grand to see her, also for to he-ar 
The big drum bating, and the trumpets blow, 
And Sir George Smart ! oh ! he played a consairto 
With four-and-twenty fiddlers all on a row ! 

The effect of the small body of singers referred to 
must have been very poor, and indeed this is admitted 
by Sir George in a letter that he addressed to the 
Lord Chamberlain's Office, dated April 26th, 1838, 
which contained an estimate for the Coronation of 
Queen Victoria. In it he states that the Bishop of 
London had written to the effect that " At the last 
Coronation the choir was by no means sufficiently 
powerful, it ought certainly to be increased at the 
approaching solemnity." The Bishop also said that 
he could " see no other mode of doing this effectively 
than by engaging the services of some of our best 
English singers and of a certain number of chorus 
singers in addition to the members of the four choirs." 
In this opinion Sir George concurred, and asked to be 
allowed to engage at least fifty more singers. In the 
end the vocal and instrumental body was increased to 
about four hundred performers, but at a considerable 
expense. Thus we find Braham was paid a fee of 
twenty guineas (only to sing in the chorus!), and Henry 
Phillips, a popular bass, fifteen guineas. An engage- 
ment was offered to Balfe (the celebrated operatic 
composer), the fee to be ten guineas, but, says 
Sir George, "he returned no answer to the 
application." 



ig8 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

In another letter to the Lord Chamberlain's office in 
July, 1838, enclosing his account for the expenses of the 
Coronation of Queen Victoria, Sir George explains that 
at the Coronation of William IV., in 1831, " he had the 
honour to hold both the offices of Director of the Music, 
by command of his late Majesty, and Organist (as filling 
that situation in the Chapel Royal) by the appointment 
of the Bishop of London." Sir George goes on to say 
that " the two offices are distinct, though capable of 
being filled by one individual." In old days the con- 
ductor generally sat at the organ or harpsichord, and 
so conducted and played at the same time, but this 
method of conducting has long since fallen into disuse. 

These statements seem to dispose of the legend 
that the organist of the Chapel Royal is by virtue 
of his office Director of the Music at Coronations. 
It appears, however, that Sir George Smart thought 
he was entitled to be Organist (not Director), and was 
appointed to this post by the Bishop of London. A 
curious claim he made was allowed by the authorities at 
both Coronations, viz., a fee of ^300 "in lieu of the 
Organ," the Coronation instrument having apparently 
been recognised as the organist's perquisite. At any 
rate this claim was also allowed at the Coronation of 
George IV. The organ referred to in Smart's claim 
was not the Abbey organ, but one that was specially 
erected for the occasion at the West end of the 
Nave. It was an expensive item, involving the cost 
of taking down the Abbey organ and erecting the new 
one. This extravagance was avoided at the Coronation 
of Queen Victoria, and part of the Abbey organ was 
utilised, at a cost of ^50. I need say that no great 
expenditure on the organ was incurred at the 
Coronation of King Edward VII., and Dr. Alcock, the 
organist, certainly did not get 300 in lieu of the 
instrument upon which he performed. 



EVIL OF PLURALITIES 199 

Among the ladies who were engaged and paid to 
assist (thirty-three in number) we find the names of 
Miss Birch, Miss Dolby, Madame Anne Bishop 
(wife of Sir Henry Bishop), Mrs. M. Hawes, and 
Miss Rainforth,* all distinguished singers. Among the 
choral singers (who were not paid) are the names of 
W. Horsley, G. Hogarth, Moscheles, J. Parry, sen., 
J. Parry, jun., and T. Oliphant. Dr. Camidge, of York 
Minster, Mr. Arnott, organist of Gloucester Cathedral, 
and Mr. Jones, of Canterbury Cathedral v the Mr. Jones 
who was umpire when I competed for Faversham 
Church in 1865) were also present. Altogether the 
choir was much more representative than in 1831, and 
no doubt the effect of the music was greatly improved 
by the very large addition to the number of singers, f 

An extraordinary point in connection with the choir 
at the Coronation of William IV. must be mentioned. 
It was a time when pluralities existed in all ranks of 
the Church, this evil being rampant in the three 
important choirs of the Chapel Royal, St. Paul's, and 
Westminster Abbey. Instead of these being separate 
bodies of highly-trained singers, as a matter of fact 
there was only one complete choir, viz., that of the 
Chapel Royal. Many of the Gentlemen of the Chapel 
were also Lay- Vicars of St. Paul's or Westminster, 
and in some cases belonged to all three choirs ! 

* It is interesting to see among the members of the choir at the 
Coronation of Queen Victoria the names of Miss Rainforth and 
Mr. J. Bennett. Both were well-known vocalists, and curiously enough 
I met them whilst holding my appointment at Windsor. Mr. Bennett 
came to some of the concerts I conducted, and entertained me to luncheon 
more than once. Miss Rainforth lived in the neighbourhood; I think 
I came to know her at the Oliphants'. The prominent and interesting 
positions they had held were unknown to me, nor did they ever discuss 
the Coronation with me. Had I known their history, and could I have 
foreseen that I should come to direct the music of the Coronation 
ceremony, I should certainly have made some inquiries. 

t I may add that at the Coronations at which I have been Director 
of the Music, the band and chorus on both occasions numbered over 
five hundred. Taking into account the enormous number of people who 
attended, this was by no means too great a musical force. 



200 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

In the list of those who attended for the Chapel 
Royal .fifteen names are given, but two of these were 
represented by deputies, one of whom was the well- 
known German organist and composer, the Chevalier 
Neukomm. The whole of the Lay- Vicars of West- 
minster Abbey were represented by deputies, and the 
same is to be said of St. Paul's. Windsor set a good 
example, as no deputy appears in their list, but it was 
only a small body of four boys and four Lay-Vicars, 
the latter including the organist. 

Matters were no better at the Coronation of Queen 
Victoria. Of the Abbey staff only one Lay- Vicar 
attended " personally," the others being all represented 
by deputies. James Turle, the organist, appears among 
the Lay-Vicars, and he is mentioned as attending 
personally, while his son, Robert Turle, is in the list 
as representing his father in his other office of Master 
of the Choristers. All the St. Paul's men sent 
deputies, John Goss, the organist, alone attending (as a 
Lay-Vicar) personally. 

From this it will easily be seen that the " four 
choirs" which were supposed to form the real backbone 
of the choral force on the two great occasions of the 
Coronations of William IV. and Queen Victoria, were 
somewhat phantom-like in character, and the deputies 
were probably in many cases not very valuable 
substitutes. 

The venal system that permitted men to hold 
simultaneously three similar places in three different 
choirs was no doubt the main cause of the very 
unsatisfactory state of the choral services in St. Paul's 
and Westminster Abbey up till late in the igth century. 
All this is now happily changed for the better. 

No particulars are preserved in Sir George Smart's 
papers of the music performed at the Coronations 
which he directed. We know that Attwood wrote an 



i8TH CENTURY CORONATION MUSIC 201 

anthem, " I was glad," for the Coronation of George IV., 
and also one for the Coronation of William IV. But 
he did not live to contribute anything to the music 
for the Coronation of Queen Victoria. The length 
of the music at some of the former Coronations was 
extraordinary. Among the papers from which I have 
been quoting is a complete list of the anthems sung 
at the Coronation of King George II. and Queen 
Caroline. There were no less than six long com- 
positions besides various Psalms to be chanted and 
the Veni Creator. The Litany and the Creed were 
read, but the Sanctus and Gloria in Excelsis were 
sung. It must have been a ceremony of prodigious 
length. 



CHAPTER XVII. 

The Bi -Centenary of the Death of Samuel Pepys Foundation of 
the Pepys Club Funeral Service for the Duke of Cambridge 
Memorial Service for the Marquess of Salisbury Editorship 
of the Methodist Hymn-Book Handel and Water Speech 
at the Sheffield Conference Some Native Humour. 

IN 1903, being asked to give a course of lectures 
at the Royal Institution, I thought it would be 
advantageous to direct attention to the musical 
references in Pepys' " Diary," this subject being 
particularly appropriate as the year was the bi-centenary 
of the death of Samuel Pepys. These lectures attracted 
some attention, and were the means of enabling me to 
form a friendship with Dr. Wheatley, the editor of the 
large edition of the " Diary." 

It is interesting to trace the connection of Pepys 
with Westminster Abbey. He was acquainted with 
Purcell's father, but as Henry Purcell was only eleven 
years of age when the Diary closed, his name does not 
appear. The fact that a copy of Purcell's Sonatas, 
published by subscription in 1683, is in the Pepys 
Library at Cambridge, shows that Pepys appreciated 
the genius who was then the organist of the Abbey. 
He mentions meeting Dr. Gibbons, who was organist 
in 1660, and going with him to " see an organ at 
the Dean of Westminster's lodgings at the Abby, 
the Bishop of Rochester's." He also visited the 
Cathedral of Rochester. In April, 1661, he says: 
" Then to Rochester, and there saw the Cathedrall, 
which is now fitting for use [i.e., after the interregnum] 
and the organ then a-tuning." 



PEPYS' SONG, "BEAUTY RETIRE" 203 

Pepys actually once "went in among the quire of the 
Abby and there sang with them their service." He 
was not very complimentary concerning the Abbey on 
another occasion, for he says he heard the service .read 
"very ridiculously"; but this may refer to the clergy and 
not to the choir. He was more explicit about St. Paul's : 
"Both before and after sermon I was most impatiently 
troubled at the Quire, the worst that ever I heard." 

He was one of the " Bannerolles " at the funeral of 
his patron, the Earl of Sandwich, who was interred in 
the North Aisle of Henry VII. 's Chapel in 1632, 
after having been blown up with his ship at the 
great battle against the Dutch Fleet in Solebay (off 
Southwold). 

I was able to correct a little error of Dr. Wheatley's 
in connection with Pepys' song, " Beauty retire." 
Of this song there are two settings in the Pepys 
Library. (I quote from my book, " Samuel Pepys, 
Lover of Musique ") : " They are not altogether 
unlike each other, the key being the same, and the 
rhythm very similar. But one (printed in Dr. Wheatley's 
edition, and assigned by him to Pepys) occurs in a 
collection by an Italian, Signor Morelli. This is 
described by Pepys as being a collection of 'Songs and 
other Compositions, Light, Grave, and Sacred, for a 
single voice, adjusted to the particular compass of mine, 
with a Th. Bass on ye Guitar by Cesare Morelli.' It 
is possible that this was an amplification of the 
original setting, made by Morelli, who lived with 
Pepys and assisted him in his music some years after 
the period of the Diary, as he states later. 

" But whether this version be Morelli's or not, it is 
certain that to the other we must look for Pepys' 
composition. The proof of this lies in the fact that 
the portrait of Pepys by Hayles in the National Portrait 
Gallery shows the first few bars of * Beauty retire.' 



204 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

He is holding the composition in his hand, and the 
music can be plainly read. Now this setting is not 
the one we have ascribed to Morelli, but the other. 
It is true that in the picture the key is different. This 
may, however, be the original key, and would be 
suitable to a woman's voice, for instance Knipp's, 
while the setting in the MS. would be as Mr. Pepys 
himself sang it. There can be little doubt that 
Pepys' version came first, and that the other is much 
later, for Cesare Morelli belongs altogether to the 
later part of the diarist's musical life, and is never 
even mentioned in the Diary itself." 

I take a little credit for finding out which was the 
authentic version of the song. Observing that in the 
Diary, on April nth, 1666, Pepys says : " To Hales's, 
where there was nothing to be done more to my picture, 
but the musique, which now pleases me mightily, it being 
painted true" (the italics are mine), it struck me that 
the last few words pointed to the fact somewhat 
unusual in pictorial art that the music was a repro- 
duction of "true" music, and not a few dots and 
dashes. I went to the National Portrait Gallery, 
taking with me a large magnifying glass, with which 
I closely inspected the scroll that Pepys holds in his 
hand, and was gratified to find that represented thereon, 
and "painted true," were the first four bars of " Beauty 
retire." This is the song given in my little book, and 
not the version of Dr. Wheatley. 

An attendant at the Gallery regarded my movements 
with very great suspicion, but I quickly dispelled his 
fears by explaining my object. 

With Dr. Wheatley I went down to Cambridge to 
spend a few hours in the Pepys Library at Magdalene, 
while there being fortunate enough to find among 
the MSS. a very interesting setting of the celebrated 
soliloquy in " Hamlet." Who composed the music is, 



THE PEPYS CLUB 205 

unfortunately, not known, but it is a fine and very 
remarkable work, and as it was certainly written within 
fifty or sixty years of Shakespeare's time is of supreme 
interest. The music may be by Matthew Locke (who 
was a friend of Pepys), or it may be by Purcell, who 
lived and died during Pepys' time. I have often had 
it performed at my lectures, and many lovers of 
Shakespeare agree that it brings out the splendid words 
in a manner that is extremely striking and impressive. 

At Dr. Wheatley's suggestion and with the help of a 
few other Pepys lovers and myself the " Samuel Pepys 
Club " was formed. It has had a singular success, the 
papers read at its meetings having contributed much 
to establish the fame of Pepys upon a right basis. It 
has fallen to me, as a rule, to contribute the musical 
items, while I have been fortunate in unearthing 
some real musical treasures from the Pepys Library 
and elsewhere. 

In 1914 the Club presented me with a beautiful 
copy of the rosewater dish* given by Pepys to the 
Clothworkers' Company. On the death of Dr. Wheatley 
the members further honoured me by electing me their 
President. 

The rosewater dish bears the following inscription : 

Presented to 

SIR FREDERICK BRIDGE, C.V.O., Mus. D., 
by Members of the 
SAMUEL PEPYS CLUB 

as a mark of their high esteem and appreciation 

of his unwearied labours for the success 

of the Club and his brilliant presentment 

of ever fresh and varied music redolent 

of the 
PEPYS PERIOD. 



* " Let one attend him with a silver ba=in, 

Full of rose-wa.er, and bestrew'd with flowers." 

44 Taming of the Shrew," Induct., Sc. i. 



206 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Recurring to my chronicle of events at the Abbey, 
in March this year (1903) we had the funeral of Dean 
Bradley (see page 177), who succeeded Dean Stanley, 
and had ruled over the Abbey for some twenty-one 
years. My relations with Dean Bradley were invariably 
most cordial, and on the rare occasions when a special 
difficulty arose, he was always kind and ready to devise 
means to make matters go smoothly. 

In 1904 the funeral service for H.R.H. the Duke of 
Cambridge was held, attended by King Edward 
and Queen Alexandra. We had Sullivan's setting of 
" Onward, Christian Soldiers," and I remember seeing 
the King singing in the manly, hearty fashion 
that was so characteristic of him, as he stood forth 
prominently in his place near the bier. My mind 
went back to my boyhood days ; again I heard the 
stirring tale of that grim fight on Guy Fawkes' day, 
sixty-five years ago, when 

. . . all day long the noise of battle roll'd 
Among the mountains by the winter sea, 

and every man in the thin British ranks bore himself 
as a paladin, not least him who now brought 
into the Abbey on his way to his last resting 
place had so gallantly maintained himself amid 
the carnage near the two-gun battery. The Dean 
afterwards told me that His Majesty had expressed his 
great satisfaction with the conduct of the service, and 
the manner in which it was rendered. 

In August there was a Memorial Service for the 
Marquess of Salisbury,* the great statesman whose 
sometimes caustic speech and bitter sarcasm veiled 
a fine chivalry as who does not know who saw him 
as a pall-bearer at the burial of his formidable political 

* This service happening to fall during my absence in Scotland, it was 
directed by Dr. W. G. Alcock, organist and composer to the Chapel Royal 
and official assistant-organist at the Abbey. 



WESLEYAN HYMN-BOOK 207 

adversary, Gladstone ? It was on Lord Salisbury's 
recommendation that Queen Victoria conferred upon 
me the honour of knighthood. Although not buried at 
Westminster, a fittingly imposing memorial to him 
is preserved there in the splendid monument by 
Sir Goscombe John. This is also one of the few 
monuments erected in the Abbey of late years that is 
not an eyesore. 

In 1904 I was asked to undertake the editorship of 
the "Methodist Hymn-Book, " the "lineal descendant," 
to quote from the Preface, " of the volume so long 
known as ' Wesley's Hymns,' . . . after a lapse of a 
hundred and twenty-five years." It was rather surprising 
that, strict Churchman as I might well have been deemed 
to be, I should be approached by the Wesleyan body 
with a view to enlisting my services as musical editor 
of their tune-book, seeing that there were so many 
good musicians within the Wesleyan Communion. 
But I felt a lively interest in the work, arduous though 
it promised to be, and entertain some pardonable 
gratification that the Committee of Revision should 
have sought me to collaborate with them. Several 
reasons also operated in prompting me to accept this 
office, e.g., because I have a sound respect for John 
Wesley for his inspiring work that rattled the dry bones 
of the moribund Church of his day, and also for 
Charles Wesley, his brother, whose magnificent 
hymns are a priceless heritage throughout Christendom. 
Perhaps also I was a little "extra pleased " on account 
of having been left out of the Musical Committee which 
had been nominated to revise our own book of " Hymns 
Ancient and Modern." I confess to having felt this 
exclusion, as I had contributed a very popular tune to 
the original edition (" The Sower went forth sowing "). 
So I embarked upon the task, and a very pleasant one it 
proved to be. There was a large Committee of 



208 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

ministers and musical laymen. I had no voice in 
selecting the hymns, but the tunes although as a rule 
selected by the Committee were submitted for my 
approval. Of course there were many old Methodist 
tunes that were dear to the Wesleyans, and which, 
although not of a very high class, had of necessity to 
be included. This on one occasion led to an amusing 
episode. A tune adapted from Handel was submitted 
to me. It was a bad adaptation, and really, as I said, 
" Handel and water." I wrote on the MS., " I can't 
admit this. If it is ever sung in the Wesleyan Church 
House [then being erected near the Abbey] it will make 
Handel turn in his grave " ! The Committee returned 
the MS., and said they " hoped Sir Frederick would 
reconsider his verdict," as the tune was "very dear" 
to some of their " friends in the North." (This was 
said more than once, and later I began to feel a strong 
aversion for those "friends in the North"!) The 
Committee added to their communication : " If it 
is ever sung in the Wesleyan Church House it 
shall be sung pianissimo, so as not to disturb Handel 
in the Abbey." There was nothing for it but to give 
way, which I did, after stipulating that I should bale 
out some of the water. Curiously enough, after the book 
appeared a little note reached me at my Scotch home 
from a fisherman who lived on the Aberdeenshire coast. 
He complained that this tune and a few others were 
quite spoiled ! I replied that he was perhaps a better 
fisherman than musician, and added, u I will make 
a bargain with you. If you will let some of those 
salmon pass your nets and come into my river I will, 
when a new edition appears, see what can be done to 
set things right! " 

The book when at length it appeared was well 
received. I was invited to go to Sheffield and speak 
about it, and of my part in it, at the great Wesleyan 




U u 



f ( '~ 



A STORY OF JOHN WESLEY 209 

Conference there. About three thousand ministers 
were present, and I was very anxious to recommend 
the book and to justify my editorship. I began by 
saying that no doubt many of them wondered why I 
was selected for the task, and not a prominent Wesleyan, 
but ventured to plead that perhaps I had an accumulated 
experience that after all was not a bad qualification. 
And then I told them of a fact about John Wesley 
which probably few knew. This I learned from a 
remarkable book which I had lately read with extreme 
delight, "The Psalms in Human Life," by R. E.Prothero 
(now Lord Ernie, and a prominent member of the 
Government as Minister for Agriculture). In this 
book he tells us that John Wesley was greatly influenced 
by hearing the anthem " Out of the deep," sung at 
St. Paul's Cathedral on the day of his " conversion.*' 
I asked my hearers, " Who composed this anthem 
which had such an influence upon Wesley ? ' and 
answered, " It could have been no other than 
the setting which we all know, by Henry Purcell, 
who was the greatest organist of Westminster Abbey. 
As one Abbey organist had helped Wesley, so 
I hoped another Abbey organist might help the 
Wesleyans." I went on to point out that one of the 
monuments best seen from the Abbey organ-loft 
was that erected to John and Charles Wesley, 
adding that I often thought to myself, when engaged 
on this book, " You must mind what you are about 
John and Charles have their eyes upon you ! " But 
I think that probably my best point was the declara- 
tion that as my own people would not accept my 
help in the revision of " Hymns Ancient and Modern," 
I felt free to do what I could for the Wesleyans, 
following the example of St. Paul, who, when the Jews 
would not hear him, turned to the Gentiles. I con- 
cluded by speaking of the help afforded by my 



210 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

cook, who was a Wesleyan, and to whom I often 
appealed to ascertain from her special knowledge 
if a particular tune was popular. " Oh, yes," she 
once said, in reply to one of my queries, in the hearing 
of a member of the Committee, " we sing that in our 
chapel very often," and she piped a few bars of it up 
the lift, at the bottom of which she was standing. This 
brought down the house, and my cook was presented 
by the Committee with a special copy in recognition of 
her valuable services to the book and to me. 

I have very often been invited to lecture on this 
Hymn-Book and its tunes in various chapels all over 
the country, on these occasions always trying to 
imbue my audience with a love for its best tunes, and 
being gratified at finding that as a rule they regarded 
the collection as a valuable possession. It has been 
interesting to go to some of these places and to find, 
perhaps, that the conductor was just a working man 
often a collier and how much trouble and care he 
had taken in the preparation of the music to illustrate 
the lecture. The Wesleyans use their chapels as 
lecture-halls, and humour not being forbidden, I have 
generally been asked to tell the story of the assistance I 
derived from my cook ! Sometimes there would a 
good story from the collier-conductor. One, I remember, 
on a special occasion not a lecture was told after I 
had played an organ solo. It was delivered heartily, in 
native Doric, which I do not entirely reproduce, and 
ran : " We all hope when Sir Frederick retires that 
he'll come and live down here. This is a nice place, 
no one ever dies here ! Why, our local doctor at the 
council the other day said the death-rate was only 
9 pint 9. One of our councillors got up and said, 
'I dunno' what "9 pint 9" means.' 'Sit thee doon,' 
said another, ' and I'll tell thee. " 9 pint 9 " means nine 
of 'em are dead and nine on the pint o' dying.' " ! 



SOME NATIVE HUMOUR 211 

Another story coming from a similar quarter may 
also be told. An addition to the churchyard was to be 
made, and in the Parish Council a speaker proposed 
that they should get the Bishop of Lichneld to come 
and consecrate it. This did not please all the 
members, one of whom remarked, "I dunna' agree to 
that. We've got plenty of good workmen as 'ud 
concrete that there churchyard just as well as the 
Bishop of Lichneld." 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

Memorial Service to Christian IX. of Denmark Thanksgiving 
Service for Safe Return of Prince and Princess of Wales from 
India Orlando Gibbons Commemoration Lecture Tour in 
Canada Dr. Vogt and the Mendelssohn Choir Meeting with 
Sir Robert Borden and Sir Wilfrid Laurier. 

IN 1906 a memorial service for Christian IX., King of 
Denmark, was held in the Abbey. In connection with 
this event my mind went back to the joyous day in my 
youth, when we had a holiday, and journeyed over to 
Gravesend from Rochester to greet the Princess 
Alexandra (the Queen Mother) when she landed in 
England before her marriage with the Prince of Wales 
(see page 16). In the unfolding of the years it had 
fallen to the boy who cheered the beautiful princess 
so long ago, to direct the solemn service in memory 
of her father. Christian IX., it may be remarked, 
descended from George II. of England. 

Later in the same year a service of thanksgiving 
was held for the safe return of the Prince and Princess oi 
Wales after their long absence in India. This service 
was attended in State by the King and Royal Family. 

On June 5, 1907, the anniversary of his death, we com- 
memorated one of the greatest of English musicians, 
Orlando Gibbons. After Purcell, Gibbons holds undis- 
puted pride of place as the next most distinguished 
of Abbey organists, yet, curiously enough, he had no 
monument in the Abbey. The chief reason for this 
neglect was that he died at Canterbury, whither he had 
gone, in 1625, to attend the wedding of Charles I. 
(see page 38). Gibbons was buried in Canterbury 
Cathedral, where a fine memorial was erected to 
him. But I thought he really belonged to us at the 



GIBBONS COMMEMORATION 213 

Abbey, and that we ought to have our own memorial 
to him there. This commemoration provided the 
opportunity. Organized by Mr. Henry King,* a choir 
of three hundred voices was assembled, comprising the 
members of the Abbey choir and representatives from 
St. Paul's Cathedral, Canterbury Cathedral, Christ 
Church, Oxford, the Chapel Royal, St. George's 
Chapel, Windsor, and several well-known churches. 

In addition to the organ, a stringed orchestra of 
twenty-nine performers provided the accompaniments, 
among the violinists being a cathedral organist 
Mr. Hubert Hunt, of Bristol. 

The service, in the form of Evensong, was held 
in the Nave, and we performed some of Gibbons' 
best anthems. For one of the special Psalms (the 
84th) I adapted a double-chant from Gibbons' well- 
known madrigal, " The Silver Swan." The Worshipful 
Company of Musicians attended in large numbers 
in their furred gowns, the graduates among them 
wearing the hoods of their several degrees. Thus a 
touch of colour was imparted to the mass of the 
large congregation assembled. 

Gibbons was born at Cambridge in 1583, and entered 
the choir of King's College in 1596, where his elder 
brother was organist and master of the choristers. He 
was appointed organist of the Chapel Royal in London 
in 1604, and became organist of the Abbey in 1623. 

By the generosity of a past-Master of the Musicians' 
Company, the late C. T. D. Crews, a splendid replica 
of the Canterbury bust, in black marble, was erected 
close to the grave of Henry Purcell. Mr. Crews 
also defrayed the expenses incurred in holding the 
commemoration. 

* Mr, Henry King also organized the choirs and discharged the duties 
of choir secretary on the occasion of the Jubilee celebration and the 
Coronations of King Edward and King George V. 



214 



A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 



An interesting discovery in the Muniment Room 
brought to light a letter (the only one in existence, it is 
believed) from Orlando Gibbons to the Treasurer of 
the Abbey, of which the following is a (reduced) 
facsimile* : 



*-&_ * - 




The above fragment was discovered by Miss Joan 
Thynne (now Countess Cawdor) when helping me to 
search the records for Purcell lore. 

An interesting account of Gibbons playing the organ 
and directing the choir in Westminster Abbey is given 
in the " Life of Archbishop Williams," sometime Lord 
Keeper of the Great Seal. 

* The items set out in the first part of the facsimile are presumably in 
the handwriting of John Burrard, whose signature is subscribed against 
Gibbons' endorsement. The latter runs : 

" Mr. Ireland : I know this bill to be very resonable for I haue 
alredy cut him off ten shillings therfore I pray despathe him, for he 
hath delt honestly wth ye church soe shall I rest yr servant, 

ORLANDO GIBBONS." 

The bill (dated 1625) is for repairs to the Dallam organ described by 
Dart as "a stately organ gilt" that was probably played upon by 
Gibbons, Purcell, and Croft. 



RECITAL BY ORLANDO GIBBONS 215 

By command of the King, a supper was given in 
the Jerusalem Chamber, to the French Ambassadors 
who came over to arrange the marriage of the 
Prince of Wales (afterwards Charles I.) to the French 
Princess Henrietta Maria. But before the supper (as 
Bishop Racket, of Lichfield) describes : 

" The Embassadors, with the Nobles and 
Gentlemen in their Company, were brought in at 
the North-gate of the Abby, which was stuck 
with Flambeaux everywhere, both within and 
without the Quire, that strangers might cast their 
Eyes upon the stateliness of the Church. At the 
Door of the Quire the Lord Keeper besought their 
Lordships to go in, and to take their seats there 
for a while, promising in the Word of a Bishop 
that nothing of ill Rellish should be offered before 
them ; which they accepted ; and at their Entrance 
the Organ was touch'd by the best Finger of that 
Age, Mr. Orlando Gibbons. While a verse was 
plaid, the Lord Keeper presented the Embassadors 
and the rest of the Noblest Quality of their Nation 
with our Liturgy, as it spake to them in their own 
Language ; and in the Delivery of it used those 
few Words, but pithy, That their Lordships at 
Leisure might Read in that Book in what Form 
of Holiness our Prince worshipp'd God ; wherein 
he durst say nothing savour'd of any Corruption 
of Doctrine, much less of Heresie ; which he hoped 
would be so reported to the Lady Princess 
Henrietta. The Lord Embassadors and their 
Great Train took up all the Stalls, where they 
continued about half an hour, while the Quiremen, 
vested in their Rich Copes, with their Choristers, 
sang three several Anthems with most exquisite 
Voices before them." 



216 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

In April, 1908, there was held the funeral service for 
Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman. Truly a chivalrous 
soul was mourned in the passing of "C. B.," as he was 
affectionately known to political friends and opponents. 

Shortly after directing this event I left England 
(on the 28th of the same month) en route for Canada, 
having been invited to go to the Dominion to give a 
series of lectures on English Cathedral Music. The 
tour and all the arrangements connected therewith had 
been organized by my friend Dr. Charles Harriss, of 
Ottawa, a musician of ample means and high ideals. 
It was a delightful experience, and I enjoyed every 
moment of my time. 

The outward journey was made very pleasant by the 
companionship of Mr. Dalton Baker, an excellent 
baritone who has often sung for me at the Albert Hall. 
We were a cheerful party on board, and certainly free 
from any worry about submarines, although there was 
a danger awaiting us that proved to be somewhat 
disquieting when it came : I refer to the fogs off the 
Banks of Newfoundland. It was very interesting to 
me to observe the watchful care of the navigating staff 
as we drew near to this area. An officer told me late 
one night that he did not like the look of things, and 
sure enough the next morning we came on deck to find 
the ship wrapped in an impenetrable fog that seemed 
almost to have the consistency of blotting-paper. No 
motion of the ship was perceptible, and no vision 
possible for many yards in any direction. Only a faint 
tremor from the engines and the position of the bridge 
telegraphs showed that we were moving slowly ahead. 
The siren was sounding continually, sending out its 
strident note of warning as a part, it seemed to me, in 
an orchestra of sirens performing far away. I suppose 
the intervals were translated into signals by the 
anxious men on the high navigating bridge, but to me 



CROSSING THE ATLANTIC 217 

they were meaningless. The crackling of the wireless 
meanwhile went on continuously, and could be heard 
between the blasts of the siren. The moments seemed 
charged with uncertainty. We drew into expectant 
groups, and smoked disconsolately. Sudden interest 
was aroused when a large ship stole past us noiselessly 
and very closely, an apparition that was viewed with 
some alarm. The elusive picture of her upper-works, as 
though delicately pencilled on the opal background of 
the fog, escaped us then to be remembered afterwards. 
Someone said that the people on the bridge had been 
aware of her proximity for a long time, through the 
wireless. 

We continued to move ahead in this manner till 
evening, when we anchored, somewhere off New York 
harbour. In the morning^the lifting fog disclosed seven 
or eight huge ships or liners quite near to us. All of 
this company of ships had groped their way in as we 
had done. To me it was indeed wonderful that there 
had been no catastrophe. 

I made my way from New York to Montreal by rail. 
Earl Grey, Governor-General of Canada, was on the 
train, and kindly invited me to his saloon, evincing 
much interest in my mission. 

A little difficulty awaited me at the beginning of my 
work at Montreal. I understood I was to deliver my 
opening address in the Cathedral ; but it appeared there 
had been some opposition, the Bishop, who I think 
was also the Dean, not agreeing to the Cathedral being 
used for that purpose. It was a trifling bit of 
obstruction that unfortunately is sometimes met with in 
Church matters. However, I was invited to the Presby- 
terian Church of St. Paul, and must say that it 
was in many of the Presbyterian Churches throughout 
Canada that I had the best success. I felt much 
at home in the Scotch atmosphere, meeting many 



218 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Scotsmen who had friends and relatives in that part of 
Scotland where I spend my holidays. A bright 
example in the case of the English Church was at 
Toronto. There the Rector of St. James's Cathedral, a 
man of liberal views, welcomed me, placing his Church 
at my service, while the choir, under the direction 
of Dr. Ham an admirable choirmaster and good 
all-round musician rendered a selection of Cathedral 
music, from Dering to Wesley, in first-rate style. The 
" atmosphere " imparted to the music was somewhat 
different from that which I had come to associate with 
my Presbyterian lectures, inasmuch as the choir, as in 
an English Cathedral, was composed of men and 
boys, whereas in the Presbyterian churches the trebles 
were women. But except in large places like Toronto, 
it appears almost impossible in Canada to get together 
a choir of boys. Dr. Ham, however, showed that it 
could be done, and I think the organists of many of 
the Churches of the Established Church in Canada 
could be laudably ambitious in this direction. 

1 had the pleasure of meeting Dr. Vogt, the 
conductor of the famous Mendelssohn Choir, and 
principal of the Toronto Conservatory of Music. 
The germ of the Mendelssohn Choir was found in 
some public recitals organized by Dr. Vogt in 1894, 
when, as organist and choirmaster of James Street 
Baptist Church, Toronto, he launched a scheme that 
quickly found a place in the forefront of choral singing. 
The name by which his singers elected to be known 
did not indicate a special devotion to the w r orks of 
Mendelssohn, sweet singer though he was. Their 
repertoire has always been eclectic. The Choir has 
given many distinguished interpretations of the 
works of Elgar and Hubert Parry, while it has 
been well said that a striking feature of their singing 
is its mighty volume. 



THE MENDELSSOHN CHOIR 219 

Dr. Vogt was an enthusiastic advocate of a cappella 
music and congregational singing. And he may be 
said to have anticipated by some years a movement 
that, since the issue of the Archbishops' Report 
(referred to in extenso in a later chapter), has found 
many adherents in this country, viz., the instructing and 
rehearsing of the congregation by holding week-night 
practices of Church music, and by lectures on hymn- 
singing and kindred subjects. His degree of Mus. Doc. 
was conferred upon him in 1907 by the University of 
Toronto, in recognition of his services to music in 
Canada. 

Early in 1917 it was announced that Dr. Vogt had 
resigned the conductorship of the choir whose 
technique he had wrought to such fine perfection. 
The post was offered to, and accepted by, Mr. H. A. 
Fricker, so long associated with music at Leeds and 
with Yorkshire choralists. Mr. Fricker may well have 
said of submarines which were at that time a fearful 
menace what Admiral Farragut, on an historic 
occasion, said of torpedoes ; at all events, full of 
enthusiasm, he took up his duties at Toronto in 1917, 
and, as results have shown, with conspicuous success. 
I am proud to say that in Mr. Pricker's early days, 
when he resided at Canterbury, he came to me for 
some organ lessons at the Abbey. 

The University of Toronto were good enough to 
confer upon me the degree of Mus. Doc. honoris causa, 
a distinction which I value very highly. 

It would be tedious now to review the whole of my 
journey, abounding though it did in interest at the 
time. I went as far as Vancouver, the solemn vastness 
of the prairies and the stupendous majesty of the 
Rocky Mountains affording a superb pageant of scenery 
from day to day. I recur in a later chapter to my 
doings in Canada, and consider at greater leisure as 



220 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

one who in the press of the day reserves a question for 
his hour of armchair ease some of the impressions that 
I brought back with me, adding also a few references 
to friends whom I met in that land of manly men and 
nature's wealth. Yet it may be said here that I could 
not help feeling then what a glorious possession this 
Dominion was, and what a bulwark the Old Country 
had in it surely a prescient thought in the light of 
events whose memory still is green. 

On my return journey I found time to stop at Niagara, 
and finished up at Ottawa, spending a very pleasant 
time with my friend Dr. Harriss. I had the honour of 
lunching at Government House with Earl Grey (who 
came to one of my lectures), and with Sir Robert (then 
Mr.) Borden, also of meeting Sir Wilfrid Laurier. The 
Canadian-Pacific steamer from Quebec afforded a 
delightful trip down the St. Lawrence before ever the 
Atlantic was encountered. As on the outward passage, 
it was with almost boyish glee that I found the ocean 
voyage to possess few sorrows for me, there being 
no alimentary rebellion. The unsteady platform of 
the deck of a liner proved far less disturbing than 
that awesome thing with which we have been made 
familiar under its suggestive name of " escalator." 
But for the war, I really think I should have been tempted 
to go again to Canada. And now ? Who knows ! 

During my absence an absurd story got into the 
Press about an imaginary adventure with a bear, while 
crossing the Rockies. This exciting incident was 
invented by an old friend of mine, the late Dr. T. Lea 
Southgate, and really it took in a great number ol 
people. The story was widely copied in the country 
papers, and I was often congratulated in Scotland by 
keepers and others on my great presence of mind and 
narrow escape " from that there bear" ! 



CHAPTER XIX. 

Memorial Window to Sir Benjamin Baker Death of King Edward 
National Memorial Service Lying in State in Westminster 
Hall S. S. Wesley Centenary Dean Armitage Robinson leaves 
the Abbey : his Help in Editing some Motets of Dering Only 
Survivor of Abbey Community of 1875. 



IN 1909 a window in the Nave was dedicated to the 
memory of the great engineer, Sir Benjamin Baker. 
Associated with Sir John Fowler, he had much to do 
with the construction of the Forth Bridge, whose 
mighty spans will ever serve to prompt me concerning 
the Slatin incident. As consulting engineer to the 
Egyptian Government, Sir Benjamin projected the vast 
irrigation scheme the realisation of which demanded 
the stupendous works known as the Assouan Dam. The 
fruits of the great engineer's prescience are now being 
seen. A reference to Assouan is worked into the 
design of the memorial window. 

I suggested that an appropriate anthem for the 
dedication would be Wesley's " The Wilderness and 
the solitary place shall be glad for them, and the desert 
shall rejoice and blossom as the rose. For in the 
wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the 
desert." The Dean admitted that it was appropriate, but 
for a time hesitated to authorise it, thinking, I suppose, 
that it was rather too appropriate. At any rate that 
was the impression the Precentor gave me. I pressed 
for it, however, as it seemed the very thing, and at 
last the Dean agreed. I was rather pleased when 
attending the meeting in the Jerusalem Chamber, after 



222 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

the ceremony, at hearing Lord Cromer congratulate the 
Dean on "the admirable choice of the anthem." The 
exact words that he used I cannot remember, but I 
gathered that he thought nothing more appropriate 
could have been selected and sung in honour of the 
man who had helped to make the " desert blossom as 
the rose." 

When, eight years later (in February, 1917) we had 
the memorial service for the Earl of Cromer, we again 
sang the same anthem, for he too had borne his part in 
the great work of the reclamation of the desert. 

In IQIO came the sad calamity of the death of King 
Edward VII., a National memorial service being held 
in the Abbey on May 2Oth. It was attended by an 
enormous congregation, and was indeed a very solemn 
and impressive occasion. I selected the music to be 
performed, and think it will be conceded that it furnished 
a programme of deep significance. We played five 
funeral marches, viz., Schubert's " Marche Solennelle," 
Purcell's March composed for the funeral of Queen 
Mary in 1694, an d Marches by Beethoven, Tchaikovsky, 
and Mendelssohn, the last named the E minor, from 
" Songs without Words." The Tchaikovsky number, 
in C minor, was accompanied by organ only; but in 
the other items the organ was supplemented by 
brass and drums. The service commenced with the 
penitential verses of Psalm 51, as set by Sir John 
Stainer. These were sung in procession, by priest and 
choir alternately. An instrumental interlude followed, 
viz., Beethoven's " Trois equales " for four trombones, 
which, played in the Triforium, had a magnificent effect. 
Handel's fine anthem, "The ways of Zion do mourn," 
and Goss's "The souls of the righteous," which I had 
specially arranged for this service, were sung. The 
hymn, " O God, our help in ages past," sung very 
slowly by choir and congregation (except verses five and 



DEATH OF KING EDWARD 223 

six, which were sung very softly by choir alone), provided 
an inspiring moment. Gibbons' Amen the same 
that had been rendered at King Edward's Coronation 
completed the service, and I played the Dead March in 
" Saul," accompanied by brass and drums. Chopin's 
" Marche Funebre," played by Dr. Alcock, also 
accompanied by brass and drums, formed an exalted 
close. 

I had the honour of directing the music at the lying 
in state of King Edward in Westminster Hall, taking 
the Abbey Choir and having a military band to supply 
the accompaniments. The deep solemnity, the simple 
majesty of the scene form an arresting picture that I 
can readily summon again ; and standing there, as I 
stood eight years ago, comes anew the refrain of the 
lamentation of the Preacher, in mournful cadence, 
"because man goeth to his long home." Sir Arthur 
Bigge, by command of King George, sent me the 
following letter in appreciation of the music performed 
on that memorable occasion : 

" Marlborough House, 

" Pall Mall, S.W., 

" June 2nd, 1910. 

" DEAR SIR FREDERICK, The King commands me 
to express to you his entire satisfaction with the 
arrangements made by you for the musical portion of 
the service in Westminster Hall on May lyth. His 
Majesty thought that the choir sang beautifully, and 
that the combination with the band in the last hymn 
was most striking and impressive. 

" His Majesty sincerely thanks you and all who 
worked with you in achieving what was in every way 
worthy of the great and solemn occasion. 

" Yours very truly, 

" ARTHUR BIGGE." 



224 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Later in the year we celebrated the centenary of 
Samuel Sebastian Wesley, one of our most distinguished 
English Cathedral musicians, who has raised the 
anthem to the highest art-form it has yet attained. 
The suggestion that we should commemorate this great 
man who had done so much to enrich the Church with 
beautiful music was received with much satisfaction by 
all classes of people clerics and laymen, professional 
musicians and amateurs. We assembled a very fine 
choir of some three or four hundred voices, in which 
were included many representatives from Cathedrals 
and Churches all over the country. The selection of 
music comprised some of Wesley's finest works, and 
in one instance a splendid anthem which was probably 
unknown to many of those present, viz., that which he 
wrote on the death of the Prince Consort, " All go 
to one place." I remember this anthem coming down 
to Rochester at the time when I was assistant-organist, 
but I do not think it was ever performed there. I had 
introduced it to the Abbey for the funeral of George 
Edmund Street (see page 121), and it was, I know, a great 
surprise to not a few who took part in the centenary. 
Two of Dr. Wesley's sons attended, one of whom, the 
Rev. Charles Wesley, presented me with a beautiful 
pair of silver decanter-stands which Dr. Wesley always 
had on his table on great occasions. 

The Rev. C. Wesley wrote to me from his Rectory 
of Grosmont, Hereford, in connection with this 
commemoration. I give some extracts from his 

letter :- 

" July itfh, 1910. 

" MY DEAR SIR FREDERICK, When I was in town 
I kept thinking that as you think so favourably of 
my father, you might like to have something of his as 
a memento ... I have a pair of silver decanter- 
stands. Father bought them at a sale, and they were 



MEMENTOES OF S. S. WESLEY 225 

always used on state occasions. Then I have a silver- 
mounted flask father used to take out fishing till it took 
to leaking at the mouth ... I have thought that 
the two decanter-stands would be most useful to you. 
If you think so, I will send them at once . . . 

" Faithfully yours, 

"C. WESLEY." 

As a fisherman and musician I could almost have 
coveted that silver-mounted flask of so great a fisherman 
and musician as S. S. Wesley, for all that it leaked at 
the mouth. The Rev. Mr. Wesley's letter catalogued a 
number of things of his father's that he treasured, but 
which would not have been withheld from me had I 
elected to choose any one of them as a memento so- 
convinced was he that I would cherish their possession 
even as he did. Thus there were " a music wagon 
that stood on his piano in his study," " some fishing 
rods," "a Worcester tobacco jar, representing a coil of 
rope and a tar sitting upon it with a pipe in one hand 
and a big mug from which he is taking a pull in the 
other." Then comes an interesting fragment of history ; 
he goes on : " This was given to my father by Mrs, 
Edward Stewart. You may have known her, as she 
and her sister, Lady Bantry, were well-known in town. 
Herself the grandest looking woman I ever saw, she 
was the mother of the beautiful Mrs. Berens, one 
of whose daughters became Countess Cairns, and her 
son was the General Herbert Stewart killed in the 
Soudan. She was a Herbert of Muckross Abbey, and 
her husband's sister was Duchess of Maryborough." 

It was interesting to me to have this little bit of 
genealogical tree, as the Duke and Duchess of 
Marlborough were frequent visitors to me in the 
organ-loft when the Duke was erecting a new organ 
at Blenheim. I had the honour of being a guest at 
Blenheim when this organ was opened (see page 257). 

Q 



226 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Referring to the old Worcester tobacco jar, with 
its note of breezy conviviality, one wonders what 
consolations the wayward genius whose it was it has 
been said of him, "he would ever dash his head 
against a wall where others would walk out by the 
door" extracted now and then from its fragrant 
contents. 

A week later I received another letter from Wesley's 
son, from which I quote. It is also dated at Grosmont 
Rectory : 

"July 2oth, 1910. 

" MY DEAR BRIDGE, I am sending by this post, 
registered, the two decanter stands. ... If the 
receipt of these things gives you half as much pleasure 
as it gives me to be able to send them, you will 
be greatly pleased ... I should very much like 
Canon Duckworth to know how pleased I was at the 
way in which he spoke of father's personality. . . . 
I have often thought how kind you used to be to me 
twenty-six years ago when I was three months in town, 
and used to come to the Westminster organ-loft on 
Sunday afternoons. 

" Faithfully yours, 

"C. WESLEY." 

The late Dr. Charles Maclean, writing in the July- 
August, 1910, issue of the monthly journal of the 
International Musical Society, upon the Wesley 
Commemoration, let fall some characteristically 
pungent and succinct remarks. He said: 

"As composer, and in the domain of Church 
music, S. S. Wesley eclipsed his father and towered 
above all his contemporaries. He did this because 
alone of all of them he could write a tune . . . 
His fame rests chiefly on his two dozen anthems. 
Each of the large anthems is a symphony of 



THE WESLEY COMMEMORATION 227 

several vocal numbers, and each number will be 
found to be based on a single melodious theme. 
He inherited his father's aptitude for 
counterpoint, which in turn was founded largely 
on the Bach model." 

And he went on : 

"If in forty years of anthem writing he never 
surpassed his early ' Wilderness ' in romantic 
beauty, and subtle polish, his eight-part ' O Lord, 
Thou art my God,' for his doctor's degree seven 
years later, is one of the noblest monuments of 
solid and powerful English music." 

Dr. Maclean made some graceful references to our 
service at the Abbey, and to me. I venture to give an 
extract : 

"Sir Frederick Bridge, whose energy is inex- 
haustible in illustrating the great features of his 
country's music, and to whom every anniversary 
is a festal day, marked St. Peter's Day . 
with functions at the Abbey commemorative of 
S. S. Wesley's birth-centenary. Along with the 
religious service for the day, eight of the great 
anthems were sung in the Nave by a choir of two 
hundred and fifty, with organ accompaniment 
(Alcock), but conducted from a rostrum (Bridge), 
and so rendered with vigour and expression. 

The effect was supremely impressive 

Later an organ-recital of eight of the S. S. Wesley 
organ-works by eight different organists, the 
most effective being Choral Song and Fugue 
(Kendrick Pyne) and National Anthem with 
Fugue (Bridge) . . ." 

I feel very proud at having been able to pay 
this tribute to Wesley. His career was not a happy 
one. I fear his temperament was hardly suited to the 



228 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

post of Cathedral organist. He lived at a time when 
the authorities of our Cathedrals took little real interest 
in the music performed there, and in a great measure 
somewhat starved the choirs. Wesley, by his writings, 
shows how deeply grieved he was at the poor level 
of Cathedral services in his day, and how he chafed at 
the many obstacles in the way of improvement. But 
he was not the man to get things put right. He had a 
quick temper and a sharp tongue. Some of the stories 
told about him are very amusing, among them one 
in connection with his fine anthem, "Ascribe unto 
the Lord." There is a movement for men's voices in 
unison to the words, "their idols are silver and gold," 
including also the words, " eyes have they and see 
not, noses have they and smell not." When his choir 
was singing this phrase Wesley said to a pupil, " No, 
they use theirs to sing through "/ 

It is sad to think that he probably never heard his 

finest anthems adequately rendered, as to-day they are 

I rejoice to say in many Cathedrals and churches. I 

had hoped that besides the service we should have 

been able to place a memorial to Wesley in the Abbey. 

Dean Robinson was quite in favour of the idea, and 

actually agreed to a spot which I had indicated, just 

below the monument to John and Charles Wesley in 

the south aisle of the Choir. But I am sorry to say 

that the cost which would include not merely the 

monument but also the large fee payable, I believe, to the 

fabric fund of the Abbey, and therefore most probably 

a necessary charge made it impossible to carry out 

this part of the scheme. Perhaps one day the absence 

of any memorial to one of the greatest benefactors to 

Cathedral music may be remedied. I have seen a 

good many memorials erected in the Abbey to men who 

deserve the distinction far less than Samuel Sebastian 

Wesley. He certainly ought to find a place among 



MOTETS OF R. BERING 229 

the musicians who are held in honour by the visible 
sign of a memorial in Westminster Abbey. In my own 
time a monument has been erected to Balfe a clever 
composer but of operas, and not of anthems ! 

In i Qi i, to our great regret, Dean Armitage 
Robinson elected to go to Wells instead of remaining 
at the Abbey. He was a great loss, and to me 
his departure was indeed a personal loss. His 
interest in the music was always so warm and 
sympathetic, and always would he bring a ready 
enthusiasm to aid me in some arduous researches 
which I made in the Library. Particularly was he 
useful and encouraging in the discovery and subsequent 
publication of the splendid Motets of Richard Dering. 
These were first issued in 1617 and 1618, and copies 
of the original editions are in the Library. So far 
as I could learn none had ever been reprinted 
(they number forty in all) until my edition appeared. 
They are set to Latin words, and Dean Armitage 
Robinson afforded much help in the translations, in some 
cases, where the words were unsuitable for the English 
Church, ingeniously finding appropriate alternatives. 
With his assistance I have restored to life and use 
some ten or twelve of these splendid Motets, works 
which I make bold to say cannot be equalled by any 
selection from the compositions of any contemporary of 
Dering's. This composer, it may be added, was 
organist to Henrietta Maria, Queen of Charles I. He 
died in 1630. 

Dean Armitage Robinson was succeeded by our 
present Dean, at whose Consecration as Bishop of 
Exeter in 1901 I had presided at the organ. 

The death of the Sub-Dean, the Rev. Canon 
Duckworth, in September, 1911, removed the last of 
the administrative body who served the Abbey when I 
was appointed in 1875. Canon Duckworth lived in the 



230 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Cloisters in the house adjoining mine, and for many 
years I enjoyed his friendship. He was musical, 
and in early days did much to encourage me 
when sometimes I badly needed a sympathetic and 
helping hand. 

It will be remembered that he took the principal part 
in the negotiations for my election as organist ; and 
during his lifetime, I always felt that in him I had a 
real friend and strong helper. His death left me the 
only survivor of the Abbey community as constituted 
in 1875. 



CHAPTER XX. 

Coronation of King George and Queen Mary Another Homage 
Anthem A Shrewd Suggestion from Sir Walter Parratt 
Sir Henry Irving as a Musical Critic Edward Lloyd's Solo 
Awarded the C.V.O. Dinner given by the Coronation Choir 
Presentation Coronation Baton : Two Inscriptions. 

THE year 1911 saw the Coronation of their Majesties 
King George V. and Queen Mary. For the second 
time I was appointed Director of the Music, being also 
again requested to take counsel with my friend Sir 
Walter Parratt. It will be understood that the organi- 
zation of this great ceremony was made much 
easier by the experience gained at the previous Corona- 
tion, as I had carefully preserved all the records, 
including the plans for seating the choir and band. I 
remember when desired to attend at the Office of 
Works to discuss these matters with Sir Schomberg 
Macdonnell, the then Chief Commissioner of Works, 
how pleased he was, and what a sigh of relief he gave, 
when, as a concrete answer to his question, " What 
can you tell me about the seats for choir and band?" 
I was able at once to produce exact plans for accom- 
modating the whole force. " Thank God," he said, 
" somebody has got something that is ready, and will 
help me." 

We proceeded on the same lines as at the previous 
Coronation. There was no difficulty about the 
Westminster boys and their " Vivats," Parry's 
splendid anthem was again included, and I contributed 
a new anthem for the " Homage." I was fortunate 



232 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

in my selection of the words, and may be forgiven 
for explaining how it came about. My mind had been 
dwelling upon this subject during my previous holiday, 
and while at our Scotch home I one day went to lunch 
at the Manse, and in the Minister's study found his 
Bible lying open. Glancing over it, my eyes lighted 
upon Psalm 33, verse 12, at the words, " Blessed is the 
nation whose God is the Lord." Now the Prayer 
Book version of the Psalm has the word " people," but 
" nation " seemed to me so much stronger that I 
immediately decided, if possible, to adopt this version. 
The Archbishop of Canterbury offered no opposition, 
while Dean Armitage Robinson approved very much 
of my suggestion, and I was authorised to proceed, 
which I did by selecting for my purpose verses 12-16, 
and 18-22. 

This lengthy text seemed rather to alarm the 
committee, and Sir Almeric Fitzroy asked me to wait 
upon him at the Privy Council Office. I noticed that he 
had before him the Coronation book of King Edward, 
and with it the book for the forthcoming ceremony. 
Both were open, showing my anthems side by side. 
Sir Almeric began by saying that their Lordships 
felt some anxiety concerning the length of my new 
anthem, as in print it looked so much longer than that 
which I had selected for King Edward's Coronation. 
I explained that the time required in performance was 
a quantity having no reference to the length of the text, 
the determining factors being the treatment of the 
words, the number of repetitions, the tempi, &c. In the 
end I was able fully to assure him that, having kept the 
matter of length constantly before me, I was confident 
my anthem would exactly fill the interval allotted 
to it. Sir Almeric, in thanking me, said that he 
thought this assurance would entirely satisfy their 
Lordships. 



SIR HENRY IRVING AS CRITIC 233 

In recounting the incident to Sir Walter Parratt, he 
shrewdly remarked that I should have reminded Sir 
Almeric that the text of a good many long choruses had 
consisted of a single word " Amen," or " Hallelujah" ! 
I wish I had thought of that. 

Sir Hubert Parry, besides his anthem " I was glad," 
contributed a fine Te Deum ; Sir Edward Elgar an 
Offertorium and grand Orchestral March ; Sir Charles 
Stanford a Gloria in Excelsis ; and Dr. Alcock a 
Sanctus. Besides these compositions I was glad to be 
able to include orchestral music by Sir Alexander 
Mackenzie, Sir Frederic Cowen, Dr. Walford Davies, 
Mr. Edward German, and Mr. Frederic Cliffe. 

In connection with his anthem, Sir Hubert Parry 
afterwards told me a good story of its effect upon Sir 
Henry Irving. Sir Hubert and Sir Henry sat together 
in the Nave at the Coronation. They watched the 
great Procession for which I had provided suitable 
Marches and Sir Henry was very full of conversation, 
till the time for the Procession of the King and Queen, 
whose progress from the West Door took place to the 
accompanying anthem, " I was glad w r hen they said 
unto me, we will go into the House of the Lord," 
which happened to be Parry's own composition. At 
the conclusion of this anthem Sir Henry said, " Well, 
I don't think much of the music so far " ! Having only 
the service paper before him, and not the score, he 
certainly did not know that the anthem was Parry's 
and, said Sir Hubert, " I did not enlighten him." 

One point about the choir and my anthem I must 
not overlook. I had written a short tenor solo in it, and 
remembering that Edward Lloyd had been a boy 
in the Abbey choir, I determined to try and get him 
to sing it. Mr. Lloyd had retired from all professional 
engagements, but I knew he still retained his powers, so 
I went down to Worthing and was successful in getting 



234 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

him to undertake it. In one way it will help to preserve 
the memory of his beautiful voice, for the anthem has 
been reproduced on the gramophone with extraordinary 
success, Mr. Lloyd's fine interpretation being a remark- 
able feature of the record. 

To conclude the account of the second Coronation 
Service in which I have had the great honour to direct 
the music I hope I may be forgiven for adding the 
following letters and incidents. 

The first letter is from Bishop Ryle, our respected 
Dean, who has never failed to say a kind word to 
me on any occasion when I have done my best for 
the Abbey. It was written and sent to me on the 
very evening of Coronation Day, and was a parti- 
cularly kind act as the Dean was very much fatigued, 
having been in ill-health for some time previous to the 
eventful day : 

" The Deanery, 

" Westminster, S.W., 
" 9.30 p.m., June 22nd, IQII. 

" MY DEAR SIR FREDERICK, Excuse a pencil note. 
But I could not sleep to-night without sending a 
line to thank and congratulate you for the splendid 
service you and your great choir rendered with such 
wonderful success. I hope you will be feeling happy 
about it. You deserve to do so. Personally let me 
thank you for all that you have done for to-day's great 
function. 

" Yours very gratefully, 

" HERBERT E. RYLE. 

" The King has sent a beautiful telegram about the 
satisfaction he and the Queen derived from your 
reverent and devotional treatment of the Coronation 
solemnity." 



LETTER FROM SIR HUBERT PARRY 235 

From Sir Hubert Parry I received the following 
very flattering and highly characteristic letter : 

" Royal College of Music, 

11 June 26th, 1911. 

" MY DEAR BRIDGE, How are you feeling about 
now ? I'm very sorry I didn't see you this morning 
to pile congratulations on you for getting through that 
fearfully tangled and complicated and responsible 
business with such complete success. As far as I 
could hear in my remote corner you seemed ready for 
every emergency and kept it all going all the long 
while without a sign of faltering or a gap, and you 
kept them all in such good humour and got ever so 
much more work out of them in consequence. I am 
infinitely obliged to you for taking so much trouble 
over the Anthem and the Te Deum, and I'm sorry I 
made the latter so hard. I couldn't hear much of it 
at the ceremony, but it seemed to be going all right. 
I should have written sooner but I dragged my anchor 
in Stokes Bay on Saturday and the sloop went ashore 
and remained broadside to the waves for seven 
hours and we had an awful job getting her back to 
Littlehampton next day, after pumping all night ! 

" Yours ever, 

" C. HUBERT H. PARRY." 

His Majesty the King marked his recognition of 
the occasion by conferring upon me the Commandership 
of the Royal Victorian Order, which I received at 
Buckingham Palace a few days after the Coronation. 
I thus had the honour of receiving a decoration from 
a third sovereign, Her Majesty Queen Victoria having 
bestowed upon me the Jubilee Medal in 1887, and 
conferred the honour of Knighthood in 1897, while 
King Edward had added the M.V.O. in 1902. 



236 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

A very gratifying compliment was shortly afterwards 
paid to me by the Coronation Choir, who organized 
a dinner, the Chair at which was taken by His Grace 
The Duke of Devonshire. During the evening the 
Chairman read the following letter from Lord Knollys: 

" His Majesty wishes it to be made known to 
the Westminster Abbey Choir, as well as to 
Sir Frederick Bridge, that he was very much 
pleased with the musical arrangements in the 
Abbey on the occasion of his Coronation, and that 
he thought the music was beautiful and extremely 
well rendered." 

I was also presented with a beautiful silver salver 
subscribed by the members of the great Choir as a 
memento of the historic occasion of the Coronation in 
which they had taken part with me. 

In connection with these events I received the 
next day the following delightful letters from the 
Duke of Devonshire and Sir Hubert Parry. His Grace 
wrote : 

" Devonshire House, 

" Piccadilly, W. 

"July 241/1, 191 1. 

" DEAR SIR FREDERICK, Please accept my very 
best thanks for the copy of the music for the Corona- 
tion. Subject to having a speech on my mind I 
enjoyed the dinner very much. I had the most 
pleasant companions at dinner, and in the high level of 
the speeches I trust my own deficiencies were not as 
obvious to my audience as they were to myself. 

" With many thanks, 

" Yours truly, 

" DEVONSHIRE." 



TWO INSCRIPTIONS 237 

The " companions " to whom pleasant reference is 
thus made were Sir Hubert Parry and myself. Sir 
Hubert's letter of congratulation upon my decoration, 
and felicitating me upon the dinner, recalls all its 
writer's great kindness and characteristic bonhomie. 
Writing from the Ro} r al College of Music, he said : 

" July 24/A, 191 1. 

" MY DEAR BRIDGE, I am delighted to hear this 
good news. I did so hope it would corne off ! And 
it 's right well deserved. I congratulate you heartily, 
and every one concerned. 

" I hope you liked your dinner. It seemed to go off 
very genially, and the general goodwill was hearty. 
Good luck to you ! Yours ever, 

" C. HUBERT PARRY." 

Sir Homewood Crawford was kind enough to have 
the baton with which I conducted the Coronation 
service mounted in gold, and further embellished with 
the following inscription : 

Baton used at the Coronation of Their Majesties 
KING GEORGE and QUEEN MARY, in Westminster 
Abbey, by SIR FREDERICK BRIDGE, Mus. Doc., M.V.O., 
when conducting the Orchestra and Choir on Thursday, 
the 22nd June, 1911. The gift of his grateful friend, 
SIR HOMEWOOD CRAWFORD, E.O.B.* 

I used the same baton at the re-inauguration of the 
Chapel of the Bath, in 1913, when Sir Homewood 
added the further inscription : 

Also used by SIR FREDERICK BRIDGE, C.V.O., Mus. 
Doc., at the Service attended by His Majesty KING 
GEORGE V., in Westminster Abbey, on the re-inauguration 
of King Henry VII. 's Chapel, as the Chapel of the 
Most Honourable Order of the Bath, on Tuesday, July 
22nd, 1913. 

* E.O.B. = '' Emergency Organ-Blower" (sec page 151). 



CHAPTER XXI. 

Funeral Service of Lord Lister Memorial Window to Lord 
Kelvin First Service for the Knights of the Bath for a 
Hundred Years : Letter from Bishop Ryle Memorial 
Service for the Duke of Argyll Speech by Mr. Rudyard 
Kipling Welsh National Service Letter from Mr. Lloyd 
George. 

IN 1912 the most memorable events in the Abbey 
were the funeral service of Lord Lister and a memorial 
service for the Hon. Whitelaw Reid. In 1913 a 
memorial window to Lord Kelvin was unveiled. It is 
perhaps a small point to record that this window 
contains, besides the principal figures, Henry V. and 
Abbot William of Colchester, a representation of the 
celebrated Lord Mayor Dick Whittington and his cat. 
The object of the inclusion of Whittington and his cat 
is to emphasise the fact that while Henry V. was fighting 
in France and winning the battle of Agincourt, the 
Lord Mayor was collecting money for the Abbey. 

In this year also a special service for the Knights of 
the Bath was held in the Abbey. For many years 
after my appointment Henry the VII. 's Chapel the 
Chapel of the great and dignified Order of the Bath 
was a somewhat desolate-looking place. True, it was 
used for occasional services and for weddings, but the 
only connection it seemed to have with the Order of 
the Bath was the presence of many very old and 
ragged banners over the stalls of knights long since 
departed. But at last the Chapel was renovated, the 
old banners removed, and those of knights of modern 
times were placed above the stalls, and then, for the 



REVIVAL OF BATH SERVICE 239 

first time for a hundred years, a service for the 
Order of the Bath was held. His Majesty the King 
attended, and a great number of the Members of the 
Order. From the old records it appeared that there 
was an anthem, " Behold how good and joyful a thing 
it is," that was always sung at the Bath services. 
The only setting worth doing (by Battishill) was 
almost certainly the one previously used, but it 
contained a long and tiresome trio for men. It 
would have been absurd to include this movement, and 
yet we were anxious to retain the anthem if possible. 
Under these circumstances I resolved to adapt the 
trio, taking its chief phrases (which were extremely 
melodious) and working them into an unaccompanied 
chorus. This anthem was sung while the knights 
proceeded to the Chapel for a short ceremony and 
returned to the stalls in the Choir. The result was 
good, and I feel the composer would forgive me, 
particularly as the emendations have preserved the 
anthem for use on future occasions. I may quote from 
a letter the Dean afterwards wrote to me, which serves 
to show that the music was acceptable : 

11 The Deanery, 

" Westminster, S.W. 

"July 22,nd, 1913. 

"DEAR SIR FREDERICK, It all went splendidly! 
the King sent for me in the robing-room and expressed 
his great gratification. He said, ' Will you specially 
tell Bridge that I liked the music very much, it could 
not have been better.' The Queen also joined in, 
and said how very much she had enjoyed the music. 
These expressions are some small recompense for 
all the time and trouble you have bestowed in 
making the Bath service one of the great successes 
of your career. 



240 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

" Moreover it was all well timed. May I hope you 
were as much pleased as I have been at the happy 
termination of our efforts to produce a service worthy 
of the Abbey. 

" Take a good and cheerful holiday ! 

" Yours very sincerely, 

" HERBERT E. RYLE." 

I suppose there must be in me a strain of 
medisevalism, for, as already confessed in an earlier 
page, the spirit of the art and customs of the spacious 
days of knight-errantry hold for me a singular charm. 
A quaint survival at the Abbey, in which, as officiating 
organist, I have assisted with much interest, has been 
the Royal Maundy distribution, that formerly took 
place in the Royal Chapel at Whitehall. When that 
Chapel was given up the service was transferred to the 
Abbey, where in Passion Week this ancient custom- 
reminiscent of a ceremony long since obsolete, when 
the Sovereign would wash the feet of as many poor 
indigents as he was years old is an impressive event. 
The Maundy-money is well known, and is distributed 
to specially chosen recipients from London parishes. 
As musician on these occasions I have received the 
sum of four shillings, in the curious id., zd., 3^., and 
^d. silver pieces. In recent years the musician's 
recompense has been reduced to two shillings and 
sixpence ! Begun as a pious act by Edward III., in 
1363, Maundy has survived until to-day. The last 
monarch to wash the beggars' feet was James II. 

In 1914 came the death of the Duke of Argyll, 
and one more solemn service was added to the 
long tale so full of lingering memories. A great 
and notable gathering assembled to pay a last 
tribute to the dead Duke, the service being rendered 




SILVER ROSE-WATER DISH, PRESENTED TO THE AUTHOR BY THE SAMUEL PEPYS CLUB. 






AN KARLV PORTRAIT OK THK 
AUTHOR (AGED 9). 



A HITHERTO UNPUBLISHED PORTRAIT 
OF MENDELSSOHN. 



RECRUITING BANDS 241 

with fine feeling and devotion. Shortly afterwards 
Dr. Boyd Carpenter very thoughtfully sent me the 
following letter and enclosure : 

" 6, Little Cloisters, 

" Westminster, S.W., 

" May 8th, 1914. 

" MY DEAR SIR FREDERICK, I send you copy of a 
letter I have just received. It will please you, I know. 
Will you let the Choir know ? 

" Sincerely yours, 

" W. BOYD CARPENTER." 
[Enclosure.] 

" Buckingham Palace, 

" May 8th, 1914. 

" MY DEAR BISHOP, The King desires me to thank 
you and all concerned for the manner in which to-day's 
solemn ceremony was carried out. The service was 
full of dignity and reverence : the music beautiful, and 
His Majesty feels certain that in every way effect was 
given to Princess Louise's wishes.* 

" Yours very sincerely, 

" STAMFORDHAM." 

Before going on to speak of some Abbey Services in 
connection with the War, I must say a word about the 
movement to establish what came to be known as 
" Recruiting Bands." 

I felt the old martial ardour stirring within me 
when, early in 1915, I had the honour of being 
associated with a committee who were working to 
establish these patriotically tuneful organizations. A 
meeting was called at the Mansion House, presided 
over by the Lord Mayor, Sir Charles Johnston, 

* Princess Louise was too unwell to be able to attend this service. She 
came, however, to hear a private performance of the music, a short time 
afterwards. 

R 



242 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

supported by Sheriff H. de Lafontaine,* Mr. Douglas 
Sladen, Sir Homewood Crawford, and others. A 
distinguished company attended. Mr. Rudyard 
Kipling was the lion of the occasion, and made a 
rousing speech, in which he amply vindicated his right 
to speak and appeal for the men in the ranks, and his 
supreme power of focussing in a phrase inarticulate 
popular thought. A portion of his pleading struck right 
home into a larger question than was outlined at the 
moment : "The soldier does not live by bread alone. 
From time immemorial he has been accompanied by 
elaborate ceremonial and observance, in which music 
plays no small part. It is not seemly, and it is not 
expedient, that any portion of that ritual should be 
slurred or omitted now." And he told some inspiring 
stories of the part that music had played in "restoring 
shaken men to their pride, and humour, and self- 
control." Musicians may well be proud to be charged 
with so great a national asset as lies even within the 
repertory of the fife and drum. 

Lord Denman, wearing the uniform of the Territorial 
Cavalry, spoke ; also Miss Lena Ashwell, whose work at 
the Front during the War period is so well known. In 
making some remarks, I pleaded for good rousing, noisy 
marches, and no classical stuff. As an old volunteer 
bandsman, I knew my text, unblushingly proclaiming 
my affection for " Ninety-five " and " Rory O'More." 

My old friend Dr. T. Lea Southgate was to have 
been present and taken part. But he wrote asking me 
to make his apologies to the Lord Mayor for his 

* This is not the only service done to music by ex- Sheriff de Lafontaine. 
By his munificence in printing a valuable " transcript of records relating 
to music and musicians," under the general title of " The King's Musick, 1 ' 
covering a period from 1460 to 1700, he has made a splendid contribution 
to musical history. The text of the volume comprises a collection of 
documents preserved in the Record Office, from which may be 
gleaned many interesting details concerning the lives of musicians 
attached to the English Court. 



AN IMPRESSIVE SERVICE 243 

non-attendance. He said that he had seen Lieut. Albert 
Williams, and discussed with him the subject of 
recruiting bands. Lieut. Williams's advice was, "Don't 
attempt to have a large and expensive band, it means 
so much work and many troubles " ; adding that for 
" popular tunes such as the people know and appreciate 
much better than what is termed ' good music,' " a 
combination like that of the " fifers and drummers of the 
Grenadier Guards band would answer every purpose." 
and further that " if any bugles are included, they 
present a change of tone and give a little more colour 
to the simple music." 

The influential list of subscribers for the proposed 
bands was headed by the Lord Chancellor, the Poet 
Laureate, and Sir Edward Poynter, late president of 
the Royal Academy. 

Since the outbreak of war in 1914, the special 
services at the Abbey have been generally in connection 
with one of the many war funds. We had an Anzac 
Commemoration on April 23rd, 1916, at which the 
King and Queen were present. In 1917 there was 
a memorial service to H.R.H. The Duchess of 
Connaught ; and a special Canadian service, also 
attended by the King and Queen. I shall recur to this 
service, when reviewing some further aspects of my 
Canadian journey of 1908. Just now I pass on to a 
most impressive service that was held on June 22nd 
(Coronation Day), 1918, nearly a year after the voice 
of Canada was heard in the Abbey. It grew out of a 
proposal made to me by Mr. A. Davies* the secretary 
of an organization established for the amelioration of 
Welsh Prisoners of War that I should give an organ 
recital, the proceeds of which would imburse the fund. 
When Mr. Davies's committee found that I was ready 
to assist them in every possible way, they thought of a 

* Mr. Davies is now M.P. for Lincoln. 



244 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Special Welsh service, and the outcome was another 
great expression of nationhood within the Empire 
vicing with the Colonial celebrations uplifted in the 
historic Church of the British race. On this occasion, 
however, it proceeded from a people whose history 
was old ere the Abbey site was hallowed by 
consecration, and who, as is so well known, have 
always shown a great national love for music. 
But if their story is old, their traditions are inspiring and 
their vigour unsapped as witness many a deed in the 
great War achieved by these tenacious warriors. 

I readily consented to ask the Dean to receive the 
committee. He at once agreed to the service being 
held, and suggested the afternoon of Coronation Day. 
This happy idea was readily accepted, and we began 
to prepare for the event. But the Westminster Abbey 
afternoon service, with the Psalms, Canticles, and 
Coronation anthem, " Zadok the Priest," had to be 
performed, and this allowed only a short interval for 
hymns, of which the committee greatly desired us to 
sing a selection in Welsh. I was invited to attend 
with the committee at 10, Downing Street, to meet the 
Prime Minister and discuss the matter. Mr. Lloyd 
George was most enthusiastic, and I could but admire 
the way in which he joined in the favourite Welsh 
hymns with certain Welsh singers who were at the 
meeting. I thought, and said, what a rest it must 
have been from the black care of war work. But the 
problem of how to include those hymns faced us, until 
I heard that the band of the Welsh Guards was to 
play in the Nave before service. " Why not let the 
people sing hymns with the band to accompany?" I 
asked ; and added, " You can then have hymn-singing 
for an hour before the regular service begins." The 
Prime Minister said, "Sir Frederick, that is a stroke of 
genius ! " and so it was arranged. 



"A GOOD WELSH ACCENT' 245 

The occasion was made truly representative, the 
great heart of the Welsh nation responding to the cry 
of its sons in distress. A vast congregation attended, 
while there was a fine choir of mixed voices drawn 
from the various Welsh churches and chapels in the 
Metropolis and district, augmented by a contingent ot 
singers from the Welsh Guards that magnificent body 
of men that, young in war, is already old in fame. The 
service was mainly in Welsh, and proved a revelation 
in congregational singing. The varied selection of 
hymns sung in the Nave included " Aberystwyth," 
" Llanfair," " Dwyfor," " Ebenezer " tunes dear to 
Welsh choralists and the great " Hen Wlad fy 
Nhadau" ("Land of my Fathers"), the solo part in 
which was magnificently sung by Mr. Ben Davies, from 
a station in the organ-loft. All the hymns were 
accompanied by the band of the Welsh Guards and by 
the organ. Written and composed specially for the 
service was " The Psean of Wales," a hymn-setting 
that I made of some stirring and uplifting verses by 
Bishop Boyd Carpenter. This number was sung in 
English. The hymn during the collection was sung in 
Welsh, and to enable my boys to take part, it was 
written out phonetically, and so taught to them. 
Mr. Lloyd George said I should have " a good Welsh 
accent before the service was over." 

The hymns were a very inspiring and moving part 
of the programme, and worthy of the occasion. 
The rest of the service adhered to the usual afternoon 
form, the anthem (selected by the committee) being 
a short composition of mine to words by Shakespeare 
(Richard III., Act 5, Sc. 3) :- 

Remember this 

God, and our good cause, fight upon our side ; 
The prayers of Holy Saints, and wronged souls, 
Like high rear'd bulwarks, stand before our faces. 



246 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

As these words are put into the mouth of a Welshman 
(Richmond, afterwards Henry VII.) they proved very 
appropriate. 

Her Majesty Queen Alexandra and H.R.H. Princess 
Victoria, who were present, graciously congratulated 
me on the music, as well as my little Motet, as they 
left the Abbey. 

A unique feature of the event was the attendance ot 
two Premiers of the British Empire Mr. Lloyd George 
and Mr. H. M. Hughes who collected alms during 
the proceedings. 

The Prime Minister also was kind enough to write 
me the following letter : 

" 10, Downing Street, 
" Whitehall, 

"June 2jth, 1918. 

"DEAR SIR FREDERICK, While the memory of the 
historic Welsh service in Westminster Abbey in aid of 
the Welsh Prisoners of War Fund is still fresh in my 
mind, I wish to thank you for your great and valued 
help in making this unique occasion such a complete 
success. It was a triumph of organization and 
co-operation, and I should like to say how greatly 
interested I was in the musical side of the programme, 
which under your skilled direction made such a 
memorable feature. Your setting of Bishop Boyd 
Carpenter's hymn was beautiful. The choir under 
your leadership did extremely well. As Patron of the 
Fund, I feel it my duty to send you this word of 
formal and grateful acknowledgment. 

" Yours very faithfully, 

" D. LLOYD GEORGE." 

This certainly was one of the most successful of the 
War services held in the Abbey, and I shall always 



AWKWARD MOMENTS 247 

remember it with pride. The Dean wrote to me 
saying I might consider it one of the great successes 
of my career. 

It is curious to reflect that I began my efforts to 
obtain a Cathedral appointment as a candidate for a 
Welsh Cathedral Llandaff, in 1867 and at the close 
of my labours as a Cathedral and Abbey organist I 
should be directing a great national Welsh gathering 
among my last special services in the Abbey. 

The service lists at the Abbey in the Church's year 
would make a large book, and in addition there are the 
great number of special services for all sorts of 
occasions (see page 333). It is not to be wondered, 
in arranging such a mass of detail, that now and then 
an embarrassing contretemps should occur ; but it is 
surprising how few really serious mistakes have been 
made so far as the administration and direction of the 
choir are concerned. I can remember only two incidents 
of this nature, and these had nothing to do with choir 
discipline. One arose through the default of a strange 
clergyman, who, having been announced to preach a 
sermon in the Nave, failed to put in an appearance. 
There was a great deal of commotion, as no member 
of the clerical body at the Abbey seemed willing to 
undertake the duty at a minute's notice. The Precentor, 
however, came to the rescue by giving out the Old 
Hundredth, which we sang in place of the sermon, and 
so the service ended. Another awkward moment was 
when the Precentor inadvertently selected an anthem 
for the morning service which included a verse of the 
Evening Hymn ! He did not notice this until the 
anthem had started, and then made great efforts to 
attract the attention of the organist, who on that 
occasion was one of my assistants. Absorbed in 
the accompaniment, he failed to notice the Precentor, 
and the unsuitability of the anthem entirely escaped 



248 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

him. So inevitably, as it turned out, the choir were 
singing, at 10.30 a.m., the verse " Glory to Thee, my 
God, this night " ! 

An irreverent interruption was caused on one 
occasion when a demonstration of working men 
marched from Trafalgar Square into the South 
Transept. But after all they were not very unruly, 
and listened with interest and some appreciation to 
Wesley's " Wilderness." The Suffragettes were a 
little more unreasonable at times, and frequently I had 
powerfully to intervene with the organ to cover up 
their remarks. 

One of the earlier air raids of the W T ar occurred 
during service ; the proceedings, however, were not 
interrupted and there was no excitement. As soon as 
the anthem was over I went out into the Cloisters to see 
some of the terrible machines disappearing over the 
river to the South-East. Most of the raids occurred at 
night, when those who lived in the Cloisters took 
refuge in the old Norman Undercroft. 

It is pleasant to turn from such recollections to 
recall a few distinguished and interesting visitors 
who at times have called upon me at Westminster. 

The organ-loft, in which is centred the control oi 
that marvellous mechanism whose voice can raise a 
multitude to ecstasy, is a lodestone attracting all 
sorts of curious and thoughtful people. And not 
these alone ; many distinguished visitors also have 
sat with me there. Queen Alexandra and Princess 
Victoria have honoured me by their presence ; 
also His Royal Highness The Prince of Wales, 
and his brother, Prince Albert. The Princes were both 
young boys, accompanied by their tutor, and 
seemed most interested in all that was taking place. 
After the service, when I took them to see the 
monuments, the Prince of Wales revealed some 



BACH'S G MINOR FUGUE 249 

judgment of the sculptor's art. The tomb of Sir 
Cloudesley Shovell bears a fine representation of the 
scene of the Shipwreck at the Scilly Isles, where 
the Admiral lost his life. They looked at this with 
interest. But above is a terrible figure of the 
Admiral, in a recumbent position, with a full-bottomed 
wig of the time of Charles II. and very little 
clothing. Nothing more unlike a great sailor could 
be imagined. The Prince of Wales looked at it for 
a moment, and then turned away, saying, "What 
an ugly monument." The ill-conceived figure of the 
half-naked Admiral quite outweighed the carved picture 
of the wreck. 

An interesting visitor to the organ-loft put in an 
appearance during the War, while I was playing 
the voluntary after service. An officer came up the 
stairs, and stood by me. As I finished, he asked me 
to play Bach's G minor Fugue, saying he was devoted 
to music, and to this great specimen of organ music in 
particular. I excused myself on the plea that I was 
tired, and should have to practise it a little before- 
hand. He could not conceal his disappointment, and 
answered that he was off to the Front the following 
day, and would have liked to hear his favourite work 
for the instrument. At this, I said, "Well, if you 
come back, and are able to tell me that you've killed 
ten Germans, I'll play you the Fugue any day." 
Some months later, while I was away in Scotland, the 
same officer re-appeared in the organ-loft, considerably 
to the surprise of my assistant, and inquired for me, 
explaining that he had come to ask me to redeem my 
promise. " But," said my assistant, " have you, on 
your part, killed those Germans?" The reply was 
quiet, but forceful: " I don't know about that, but I'm 
going to Buckingham Palace to-morrow to receive the 
V.C." ! He heard that Fugue. 



250 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

The Abbey and its music had for some years an 
enthusiastic visitor and admirer in a Lancashire collier, 
whose exemplar surely was lyth-century Thomas 
Britton, the musical small-coal man of Clerkenwell, of 
whom John Hughes wrote : 

Tho' mean thy rank, yet in thy humble cell, 
Did gentle Peace and Arts unpurchas'd dwell, 

verses that might not inaptly fit my collier. I made 
his acquaintance through the Purcell Festival, when 
he wrote saying how glad he was to hear that 
we were going to erect a monument to Purcell, and 
enclosing a subscription of los. 6d. I showed the letter 
to the Dean, who sent the miner two tickets. He 
attended the Festival, and afterwards became a 
frequent visitor to the Abbey. He always made it a 
point to attend the great football matches at the 
Crystal Palace when a northern team was taking part ; 
going to see the football, but also never failing to 
come to the Abbey. And not only at the Abbey did I 
see him, but frequently at my lectures at Manchester 
and in the neighbourhood. He would occupy a front 
seat, and was a most attentive listener. On a more 
notable occasion, viz., a rehearsal in Church House of 
the music for King Edward's Coronation, sure enough 
there was my collier sitting in the gallery, for which 
he had paid half-a-guinea. I would often take him 
with me into the music room at the Abbey to the 
choristers' rehearsals, and he seldom left them without 
a really generous " tip." Having been a chorister 
myself, I had known the lure of this form of Coda, and 
the blissful orgies latent in half-a-crown. So I was 
not disposed always to be repressive. On one 
occasion, in taking leave, he said to them, " I 
shall think of you to-morrow when I am hundreds 
of yards underground." I was really sorry to hear 
of his death, two or three years ago. 



CHAPTER XXII. 

Royal College of Organists Dr. Turpin National Training School 
Sullivan as a Teacher of Counterpoint Dr. Prout as Orchestral 
Critic Royal College of Music Professorial Appointment 
suggested by the Prince of Wales Death of Sullivan 
Joachim and the Examination Paper Trinity College Tour 
with Dr. Me Naught. 

MY readers have now accompanied me along the broad 
path of my pilgrimage, in which a loose chronology has 
permitted me to move freely between salient points. 
I now propose, as a pilgrim may, to return to some ol 
these, devoting to them some chapters under their 
aspects of Activities and Incidents. The latter are 
of passing moment, and largely retrospective. The 
former become prospective, carrying my pilgrim way 
beyond these pages, for in their midst I still bear staff 
and scrip while the journey and its toil are pleasant. 

Prominent among my activities has been my 
participation in the work of those institutions 
charged with the conservation of the art of music. 
One of the first of the corporate examining bodies 
with which I became associated before coming to 
Westminster was the College of Organists. Queen's 
Square, Bloomsbury, saw the modest beginnings, 
upwards of half-a-century ago, of the institution 
that has conferred untold benefits upon numbers of 
executive musicians. When R. D. Limpus, in 1864, 
projected the scheme that was destined so soon to 
take its place in the forefront of musico-examining 
bodies, he could not have foreseen the rapid appreciation 
of its diplomas in the ranks of the profession. The 



252 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

College has occupied various sites since its foundation, 
and is now housed in the commodious premises at 
Kensington, vacated in 1894 by tne Royal College 
of Music. 

The examinations of the College are held half-yearly, 
candidates for the Fellowship being required first to 
have secured the diploma of Associate, or to be 
musical graduates of a University. 

In the early days of the College a Conversazione 
in connection with its examinations was held in 
Freemasons' Hall. Some excellent music was given, 
and among other items I heard for the first time 
Bach's Fugue in D minor for violin solo, admirably 
played by Louis F. Ries. The Organ prize composi- 
tions were afterwards played by James Higgs at 
St. Michael's, Cornhill. By attending the meetings of 
the College I made the acquaintance of many of the 
leading organists of the day, many of whom combined 
to give me a cordial welcome when I was appointed to 
the Abbey. I am glad still to be able to take part in the 
activities of an institution of which I am, I believe, at 
this moment its oldest member if not in age, in date of 
election, having passed the examination for Fellowship 
in 1867, being elected President in 1901. The College 
was incorporated in 1893, with a Royal Charter. 

The Archbishops of Canterbury and York are 
Patrons, a fact which should have some interest in 
connection with the Report of the Archbishops' 
Committee, considered in a later chapter. The Bishop 
of London is also a patron. 

One of my friends connected with the College of 
Organists was Dr. Turpin. He accepted the secretary- 
ship on the death of Limpus who, as I have said, 
had practically founded the College and carried on the 
work with success. He was a modest, simple-minded 
man, without any side or pretentiousness, and had 



EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES 253 

the gift of being an entertaining and lucid speaker. 
Both at the College, and at Trinity College of Music, 
of which he was for a long time Warden, he did great 
work. It gave him a good deal of amusement when I 
set to music Sam Weller's " wild and beautiful legend " 
in " Pickwick," " Bold Turpin vunce on Hounslow 
Heath " with its episcopal refrain : 

" And the Bishop says, ' Sure as eggs is eggs,' 
This here 's the bold Turpin ! " 

for a College of Organists' dinner, dedicating it " to 
my friend Dr. Turpin." I have already referred to 
this song as having been written on the banks of 
the Spean. 

Dr. Turpin had much to do with getting the buildings 
formerly the home of the National Training School of 
Music, and later of the Royal College of Music, trans- 
ferred to the Royal College of Organists. In this he 
was greatly aided by the efforts of an old pupil of mine, 
Dr. Sawyer, who succeeded Turpin as secretary of the 
College. Alas ! he held office only for a few months. 
He died whilst I was absent in Canada. 

My connection with Owens College, Manchester, 
was necessarily severed when I came to Westminster. 
After a short time, however, I was able to resume my 
educational activities by being appointed to the 
teaching staff of the Crystal Palace School of Music, 
and the National Training School of Music at South 
Kensington. 

The latter institution was founded in 1873. 
Originally projected in 1854, it was not until twenty 
years afterwards that the idea put forth by the 
Prince Consort took definite shape, when, at a 
meeting at Clarence House, presided over by Prince 
Alfred, a Resolution was passed that it was desirable 
to erect a School of Music at a cost of ^25,000. 
It was recommended that the building be erected 



254 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

at Kensington, in connection with the Society of Arts. 
Built by Sir Charles J. Freake, at his own cost, the 
School was opened at Easter, 1876, and continued 
to flourish until Easter, 1882, when its activities 
ceased under the above name. In May, 1883, as 
the outcome of a meeting held at St. James's Palace 
in February of the previous year, it was reconstituted, 
thenceforward to be known as the Royal College of 
Music, being granted a Charter of Incorporation 
in 1893. 

My work at the National Training School was 
teaching the organ, one of the students being Mr. W. G. 
Alcock (now Mus. Doc., M.V.O.), for many years my 
very clever assistant and loyal colleague at the Abbey, 
now (since 1916) organist of Salisbury Cathedral. 
Sir John Stainer took the harmony classes, and 
Sir Arthur Sullivan taught counterpoint. Sullivan 
was director of the School for several years, being 
followed in this office by his friend Stainer. For 
a time I undertook the orchestral rehearsals, which 
proved very enjoyable. I have already spoken of 
Mr. Visetti as being the only surviving professor, 
along with me, of the staff of the old school still 
among the professorial staff of the Royal College. 
Mr. Visetti has brought his study of all that pertains 
to voice to a high pitch of perfection. His discernment 
of the potential singer is very keen, and more than 
once an unfavourable opinion of mine, expressed to an 
inquiring student, has been reversed by him with the 
best possible results. 

Sullivan, as I have said, took part in the teaching. 
He had a delightful method of imparting instruction, 
and it was impressive to observe his painstaking use of 
the blackboard while giving a lesson in counterpoint. 

One of the staff at the National Training School 
was Ebenezer Prout. I first came to know him at 



PROFESSIONAL RIVALRY 255 

Windsor, when he brought down a choir of which 
he was conductor. They were a very efficient 
choral body, and sang a fine selection in St. Mark's 
School. Then I lost sight of him for some time. 
My exercise for the Mus. Doc. degree at Oxford 
was a short Oratorio (afterwards published), and Prout 
happened to review this work in one of the musical 
papers, his critical remarks being extremely kind and 
candid. We corresponded after this, and when I 
came to London were not long in renewing our 
acquaintance. 

He was a man possessing an extraordinarily wide 
knowledge of music, and always ready to hold out 
a helping hand to students. I was indebted to him for 
valuable advice in the scoring of my first work for 
Westminster Abbey, a setting of the Canticles for the 
Caxton Celebration. As fellow-teachers at the National 
Training School we saw a great deal of each other. 
He was a very amusing, cheerful man, with a dry 
strain of humour, which recalls a delightful passage 
of arms that we had in connection with a Musical 
Society of which I was conductor, the Highbury 
Philharmonic. Prout was conductor of the Hackney 
Choral Association, and there was a little rivalry 
between us that gave a fillip to our rehearsals. But 
Prout's was a professional band, while mine, unfor- 
tunately, was an amateur organization. Now there is 
nothing more terrible than a real amateur band. It 
demands from the conductor all his patience, good 
temper, and skill to make things go, and then he will 
not achieve results other than the " restless panting of 
their being." How different when he has at his 
disposal a complete orchestra of professional men ! 
Accidents were always happening at our concerts, and 
generally with the band. On one occasion our leading 
'cellist broke his A string whilst tuning up, and had not 



256 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

got another with him : the timpanist dropped his drum- 
stick at the reverberant moment when an important 
roll on the side-drum was the only thing supposed to 
be going on always there was something like this 
to be encountered. 

Prout came to our concert one night, and a few 
such incidents occurred, quite casually, like items in 
the programme. They amused him very much ; more 
so than the performance, and he went home and wrote 
me a poetical effusion about them. I retaliated by 
sending him some stanzas portraying the feelings 
of my orchestra at seeing Prout sitting below, and 
their sentiments towards himself. One of the verses 
I recollect well : 

Poor Oboe and Clarinet 

Shake like ten thousand reeds, 
Whilst 'Cello breaks his string the A, 

And misses all the leads. 

To return to the National Training School : The 
engagements of the professorial staff terminated 
with the transition period of the School, in April, 
1882, but in March, 1883, I was very pleased at 
receiving a letter from Sir George Grove, the new 
director, in which he said : " I have now the 
pleasure to convey to you the hope of the Prince of 
Wales [King Edward VII.] that you will take the post 
of Professor of Counterpoint in the Royal College ot 
Music, with a seat at the Board." In expressing my 
thanks to His Royal Highness and to Sir George, along 
with my willingness to undertake the duties and 
obligations attaching to the proffered position, I 
ventured to add that it was a post that I should be 
proud to hold. 

The sphere of usefulness of the College is enhanced 
by the administration of a Patron's Fund (King 
George is patron of the institution) of ^27,000, 



SULLIVAN AS ORGANIST 257 

generously placed at the disposal of the Board by 
Sir Ernest Palmer, for the encouragement of com- 
position by the younger British composers. 

Sullivan relinquished the direction of the National 
Training School in 1881, but I by no means 
lost sight of him. He lived in Victoria Street, 
close by me, at Westminster, and would frequently 
come down to the Abbey when we did one of 
his anthems. Having been educated as a chorister, 
with much the same training as myself, he had an 
intimate knowledge of the requirements of Church 
music, and although he had chosen a path outside 
the ecclesiastical world, he retained his skill in organ- 
playing. On one occasion, when hearing him play 
at a wedding, I was delighted with his powers ol 
extemporisation, which were called forth by the late 
arrival of the bride. 

Elsewhere I have referred to the Duke and Duchess 
of Marlborough visiting me in the organ-loft at the 
Abbey. This they did very frequently at the time 
when the Duke was erecting his new organ at Blenheim 
Palace, and I found His Grace to be exceedingly acute 
in some of the questions that he put concerning stops 
and mechanism. An outcome of these visits was 
that Sullivan and myself were guests of the Duke at 
Blenheim for the opening of the organ there, when 
Sullivan supplied accompaniments for some of the 
vocalists, and also extemporised very ingeniously. 
We were a very merry party in the historic palace. 
Sullivan was a delightful companion especially wrnn 
I could get him out for a walk ; but I think that as a 
rule he preferred whist to Bridge. 

Sullivan, it is well known, had a pretty turn of wit. 
At the Old Madrigal Society one night he scored off 
rne in his droll manner when he was President with 
of course the privilege of speaking. I blew the note 

s 



258 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

as usual on the pitch-pipe for the madrigal to begin, 
and then said, as a cue to the members "A minor." 
Sullivan promptly asked me how I blew a pitch-pipe in 
the minor key ! 

Living as he did close by me at Westminster, the 
news of his lamented death reached me very quickly. 
Thus it was that, within an hour of his passing, I stood 
contemplating in deepest sorrow the poor fragile frame 
that so lately had been the repository of so brilliant 
a genius. I was honoured in being asked to be a 
pall-bearer at his impressive funeral at St. Paul's, 
accompanying Sir John Stainer. On our way Sir John 
said to me, "This is really a great tribute to music, 
his being buried at St. Paul's." Alas ! Stainer was 
destined all too soon to follow his life-long friend to 
the silent land. Interred in Holywell Cemetery, 
Oxford, his memorial is set up in St. Paul's, close to 
that of Arthur Sullivan. 

The examinations at the Royal College afforded 
me many opportunities for meeting Joachim, whom 
also I met at a University examination at Cambridge. 
He always struck me as a pleasant and amiable 
man, of assured dignity, and possessing absolutely 
no " side." Once he afforded me considerable 
amusement at a certain examination when there 
was a question on the paper that neither of us 
could readily have answered. Said Joachim to me, 
"I don't know much about this, I must look it 
up when I get home " ! I thought this a delightful 
admission from a musician of his distinction. 

Trinity College is another important centre of musical 
instruction with which I early became connected. It 
was founded shortly after the Royal College of 
Organists, and affords an example of what may be 
accomplished by wisely conceived administration. For 
many years I held the office of Honorary Organist, 



A WORLD-WIDE USEFULNESS 259 

but did not take any active part amongst the professorial 
staff. Later I accepted the position of Chairman of 
the Board, and rejoice to see the expanding usefulness 
and continued advance of the College. Its extensive 
buildings in Mandeville Place are admirably arranged 
for the purposes of a teaching institution, while its 
very complete syllabus and excellent staff of professors, 
along with a liberal time-table designed to meet the 
needs of day and evening students, make it a desirable 
centre for the acquisition of a complete musical 
training. The number of students now attending the 
College is well over four hundred. 

The most remarkable success of Trinity College 
was gained by its being the first to see the necessity 
for establishing local examinations in music. This 
was in 1877. Since that time many other examining 
bodies have followed this splendid lead, the most 
important being the Associated Board. The zeal 
and enterprise that so quickly covered the ground 
in the United Kingdom enabled Trinity College 
to organize and establish a wonderful network of 
examinations whose standard has been consistently 
maintained throughout India, Australia, New Zealand, 
South Africa, Canada, South America, &c. By thus 
testing the educational work in music that is being 
carried on in the cultured communities throughout such 
a vast area, and referring it continually to the high 
standard demanded by its diplomas, Trinity College 
applies an impetus to artistic progress whose poten- 
tialities cannot be measured. That its examinations 
have a sterling currency in the educational world is 
evidenced by the fact that last year upwards of thirty- 
five thousand candidates presented themselves for the 
College diplomas and certificates. 

During the war period the examiners of the College, 
undeterred by the nefarious submarine peril, traversed 



260 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

thousands of miles of ocean, and succeeded always in 
carrying out their important duties. It is an honour 
and privilege which I greatly esteem to be associated 
with the direction of this admirable institution. 

I have never done much work as a travelling 
examiner, such employment being for me very 
fatiguing. On one occasion when Sir John Stainer 
was incapacitated through illness, I accompanied the late 
Dr. McNaught for a week on one of those whirlwind 
examination tours in which his soul delighted. The 
genial Doctor was Sir John Stainer's assistant, but 
I believe Sir John's physical make-up could not 
support the fierce bouts of "inspecting" that 
seemed to be the breath of life to McNaught. My 
week with him is a nightmare, in which processions of 
candidates come and go endlessly; in which we seem 
always to be boarding trains by the smallest margin of 
safety; in which night brings no rest, for we have to sit 
far into the small hours making up returns and preparing 
for the morrow ; and generally the whole thing proceeds 
at breathless speed, and the problem emerges in all 
its stupendous proportions. I remember telling my 
companion that it really had been the hardest week's 
work I had ever done, and I would not undertake his 
job for .5,000 a year. 

McNaught was entirely unruffled, and always seemed 
to have absolute mastery of the situation, working with 
extraordinary devotion and celerity, yet never revealing 
the slightest impatience. He even found time to fit in 
some journalistic work, and to conduct a publication of 
which he was editor. This he achieved from the end 
of a wire, and by ways and means of speeding letters 
through the post in the shortest possible time unknown 
to ordinary mortals. 

I sometimes wonder if any of the youthful aspirants 
who then passed before me ever attained to a musical 



A TREMENDOUS FIGHT 261 

degree. If so, the tremendous fight in which at 
about this time I found myself involved against some 
proposed alterations in the Statutes relating to musical 
degrees in the University of Oxford may have been 
for their benefit. In 1898 it had been proposed that 
the Hebdomadal Council should rule that no candidate 
might proceed to a degree in music unless he had first 
taken the degree of Bachelor of Arts. This would 
have entailed compulsory residence at the University 
for a period of three years, and would have meant that 
the musical profession was practically barred from 
taking the Oxford degree. It was urged by those in 
favour of the proposed change and I confess the 
reason seemed valid that the status of the musician 
would thereby be raised, so that he would rank with 
graduates in other faculties. But under the scheme, 
as I pointed out, there would be no graduates to enjoy 
the advantages of this enhanced and assured status, 
for its effect would be to drive away from the University 
the talented young musician without means. Further, 
as I proceeded to show, the University having made 
no provision for the technical training of its students, 
it was not apparent that any practical benefit could 
ensue from compulsory residence. 

My fundamental objection, conceived in the interests 
of the musical profession as a whole, lay in the fact 
that the proposal was inconsiderate and constituted a 
real hardship. Prosecuting my opposition with all the 
ardour I could muster my old friend Dr. Southgate 
who dearly loved a fight, lending me strenuous and 
valuable assistance I proceeded to Oxford, and 
waited upon many heads of Colleges and members 
of the Hebdomadal Council with whom the decision 
ultimately rested. I even ventured to point to my 
own experience as an argument in favour of retaining 
the old and proved system that had survived the test of 



262 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

four hundred years, for it seemed to me that my 
career had brought no discredit on the University or 
its degree. 

Sir John Stainer and Prof. Prout were also opposed 
to any change in the Statutes. At a meeting of the 
Union of Graduates in Music, held at the College of 
Organists in October, 1898, when I brought the matter 
forward as one affecting the ancient privileges of 
musicians, my old friend Prout spoke strongly in 
favour of my motion. He said : 

" I may say that I am personally very cordially 
in favour of Sir Frederick Bridge's protest. . . . 
I have listened with a great deal of interest to 
Mr. [now Sir Henry] Hadow, but neither he nor 
anyone else has touched upon what I consider one 
of the most important points in this matter. . . . 
He says this change will raise the value of the 
degree. Granted that it will, he has overlooked 
or, at any rate, he has not met the objection, that 
it will exclude the very class by whom the degree 
is most wanted, I mean the great body of pro- 
fessional musicians." 

Prout did not take the view that lack of means would 
be the sole deterrent. The gravamen of his opposition 
lay in the fact that whereas in the case of law, or 
medicine, &c., a man did not begin seriously to work at 
his profession until he was through his college course, in 
music the great majority began their professional career 
actually during boyhood. He went on to say : 

" If this proposal is carried, it will practically 
shut out the musical profession as a whole . . . 
for they had not got the time to give two or three 
years to college when they ought to be earning 
their living and beginning to work at their 
profession." 



DEGREES WITHOUT RESIDENCE 263 

And he added : " For these reasons I think the change 
is decidedly harmful" 

The outcome of the efforts that I initiated was very 
satisfactory, for the Hebdomadal Council rejected the 
proposal. 

Some years later the matter was again brought 
forward, but with many important differences, one of 
which was that candidates could observe the Statute 
concerning "residence" by attending for a prescribed 
period certain recognised colleges in London and 
elsewhere. I did not feel inclined to oppose this, 
especially as, following the first Oxford proposal in 
1898, the University of Durham had instituted musical 
examinations without residence, thus affording an 
opportunity for young musicians to take a degree. The 
original scheme would, however, have constituted a 
drastic change without any compensating advantages, 
and I am glad at having had so much to do with keeping 
it off the Statute book of Oxford. 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

Gresham Professor Fraternal Visit of London University to the 
University of Paris Imperial College of Science : Laying 
Foundation Stone by H.M. The King Royal Choral Society 
Conductorship, and a Letter from Sir George Grove Prout 
as a " Toucher-up " - Joseph Bennett and Mozart Royal 
Philharmonic Concerts. 

A SHORT time after the episode related in the last 
chapter, I was elected to fill the vacancy in the 
Gresham Professorship of Music. The circumstances 
are already described at page 147. A resume of the 
origin of this Professorship, and a brief glance at my 
predecessors in the office, may here be opportune. 

Sprung from the Greshams, of Gresham a town in 
the hundred of North Erpingham, in Norfolk Thomas 
Gresham, English merchant and ambassador, was first 
among the merchant princes of the i6th century. Also 
he was a scholar, trained under the auspices of the 
learned Dr. Caius, founder and sometime master of 
Caius College, Cambridge. We read of him that at 
the age of thirty "the polish of his manners had 
attained its perfection, and so noted was he for that 
trait invaluable if we seek to get on in this world 
that when the Court wished to make an impression on 
foreigners Thomas Gresham was ordered to receive 
and entertain them." 

His first public honour was to be made " King's 
merchant" to the young King Edward VI. ; and " My 
merchant" Queen Elizabeth called him, when sh?, the 
illustrious guest who should declare the grand edifice 
open, inaugurated Gresham's munificent gift to the 
City, the Royal Exchange. 



SIR THOMAS GRESHAM 265 

Knighted by Elizabeth in 1559, he built a fine 
mansion in Bishopsgate, and probably settled down to 
the maturing of those plans by which, making the 
nation his heir, he created and bequeathed a trust 
vested in the Corporation of London and the Mercers' 
Company for the purpose of founding a College for the 
cultivation of the arts and sciences. Provision was 
made for the accommodation of seven professors, 
suitably endowed with stipends, one of these being the 
Chair of Music. 

The first of my predecessors in the Gresham 
professorship, and probably the most eminent, was 
Dr. John Bull. He was appointed in 1596 on the 
recommendation of Queen Elizabeth, and resigned 
on the occasion of his marriage. The explanation is 
found in the fact that under the foundation the 
Gresham professors enjoyed apartments in the College, 
an arrangement that continued till the reign of 
George III., when by special Act of Parliament it 
was set aside, and an augmented stipend took the 
place of this provision. 

Surveying the list of occupants of the chair, it is 
curious to note their varying qualifications for the office. 
Thus we find that Thomas Clayton, who succeeded 
Bull in 1607, was a doctor of medicine. The Church 
supplied the next professor, in the person of the 
Rev. John Taverner, who entered upon his duties in 
1610, to be followed, in 1638, by Richard Knight, who 
is described as a physician, whose successor, Sir 
William Petty (the progenitor of the noble family of 
Lansdowne), appointed in 1650, was also a doctor of 
medicine. 

Petty was a remarkable man. Exhibiting extra- 
ordinary precocity from childhood it was said of him 
that at twelve years old he could have worked at the 
trade of watchmaker, joiner, or smith at an early age 



266 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

he went to sea. We read that such was his proficiency 
in navigation that he excited the envy of his fellow 
seamen, and they put him ashore on the French coast, 
inhumanly deserting him with a broken leg. But his 
extremity proved a blessing in disguise, for he was 
able to establish himself in France, and, while earning 
a livelihood by teaching English and navigation, 
he rapidly acquired a brilliant knowledge of French 
and was able to enter as a student at the University 
of Caen. Later we hear of him being back at sea, 
this time in the Navy ; then learning attracted him 
again, and he went to Utrecht and Amsterdam, 
thence to the University of Leyden, whence he 
migrated to Paris, where he formed an intimacy with 
Mersenne. Returning to England in 1646, he devoted 
himself to business and invention, striving to effect 
improvements in textile machinery. Also he found time 
to write a Treatise on Education, and to obtain the 
degree of Ph.D. at Oxford. He was one of the original 
members of the club which, under the patronage of 
Charles II., blossomed forth as the Royal Society. 
Pepys was a great admirer of Petty, as witness his 
remark, "But above all I do value Sir William Petty." 
In twice declining the honour of a peerage, Petty gave 
as his reason that he would "sooner be a farthing 
of intrinsic value than a brass half-crown, how gaudily 
soever it might be stamped and gilded." He was 
once challenged to fight a duel, but his opponent, 
Sir A. Brodrick, was made to see the absurdity of this 
mode of settling a difference when Petty, on account 
of his defective vision, stipulated for " axes, and a 
dark cellar." 

Medicine may have been deemed a qualification for 
the office, for ten years later still another doctor and 
knight of the pestle followed in Sir Thomas Baynes, but 
we learn that he was removed from his professorship 



GRESHAM PROFESSORS 267 

by vote of the committee. The Church supplied the 
next two occupants in the persons of the Rev. John 
Newey and the Rev. Dr. R. Shippen, in 1696 and 1705 
respectively, the latter being also Principal of 
Brasenose, Oxford. Then there was a reversion to 
medicine when, in 1710, Dr. Edward Shippen was 
appointed. Next the law was drawn upon, John 
Gordon, barrister, being elected in 1723 ; and in 1739 
two names appear, Thomas Browne, Fellow ot 
Trinity, and Charles Gardner, Browne apparently 
being disqualified by an equality of votes. Thomas 
Griffin, in 1762, an organ-builder, was followed by 
Theodore Aylward in 1791. Aylward was organist of 
St. George's Chapel, Windsor. An important name is 
that of R. J. S. Stevens, the prolific writer of glees 
and part-songs, who was elected in 1801. It was 
Stevens who, in 1832, when S. S. Wesley submitted his 
anthem, ''The Wilderness," for the ^5 Gresham Prize, 
in rejecting it said it was " all very well, but not 
Church music." 

Stevens' choice of Shakespearean words for his 
glees was largely the outcome of his friendship with 
Mr. Birch, a pastrycook and confectioner of Cornhill. 
Birch was, I suppose, a good confectioner. He was 
also a great admirer of Shakespeare, and seems to 
have imbued Stevens with a like enthusiasm. Some 
interesting circumstances centre around Birch. The 
house that he lived in still stands, being the 
well-known and well-patronised establishment of 
Messrs. Ring & Brymer, who supply many of the City 
banquets. Birch entered municipal life, ultimately 
becoming Lord Mayor of London. There is a 
probability that a connection could be traced between 
his having held this dignity and Stevens' obtaining the 
Professorship, for, as Chairman of Gresham College, 
Birch would probably be able to wield some influence. 



268 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Edward Taylor, the first of the Victorian 
professors, was appointed in 1837, an( ^ m this choice 
it may be said that his electors compensated in 
a great measure for the errors of their predecessors. 
By profession he was a civil engineer, but this 
he abandoned in order to devote himself to music, 
the success he obtained as lecturer, adapter, translator, 
and musical critic justifying the step thus taken. 
From the outset he took a serious view of his 
responsibilities as Gresham Lecturer, and aimed 
at a general diffusion of knowledge which would 
interest and instruct the public. Prof. Taylor 
composed an Ode for the opening of the new College 
buildings in 1843. He was the first president of 
the Purcell Club, and the founder of the Musical 
Antiquarian Society. 

Spohr visited Taylor, who had translated the 
" Crucifixion." He wished to hear an English glee, 
so Taylor invited to his house several of the 
Lay- Vicars and choristers of the Abbey, who sang a 
selection of glees for Spohr's entertainment, he in turn 
delighting the company with a performance on the violin. 

My immediate predecessor, Henry Wylde, Mus. Doc., 
succeeded Prof. Taylor in 1863, and held the professor- 
ship for twenty-seven years. Two years before his 
appointment Wylde had been associated with the 
foundation of one of the principal teaching institutions 
in the Metropolis, the London Academy of Music, and 
for many years he conducted the annual concerts of the 
New Philharmonic Society. An enterprise launched 
at his own expense was the erection of St. George's 
Hall, which was opened in 1867. He was one of the 
jurors in the musical section at the Exhibition of 1851. 

In the year 1905 I was elected a member of the 
Athenaeum under Rule 2, which waives the necessity 
for a candidate's name being submitted to the ballot. 



THE UNIVERSITY OF PARIS 269 

Mr. Otto Goldschmidt came down to me at the 
Cloisters, conveying the agreeable intelligence ; he 
said that when he was elected under the same Rule, 
his wife remarked that she thought it was the greatest 
honour that could possibly have been done to him. 

At page 195 reference is made to my appointment to 
the King Edw r ard Chair of Music in the University of 
London. In May, 1907, the University paid a fraternal 
visit to the University of Paris, when, as a member of 
the Senate, I had the honour and pleasure of 
being one of the delegates. The occasion was made 
most delightful by our friends of the Universite, who 
lavished upon us all their country's exquisite genius 
for gracious hospitality. We were a large party, 
including many ladies. The official proceedings began 
with a reception in the great hall of the Sorbonne, 
that ancient College dating from the days of Louis IX. 
(St. Louis), which later in the iyth century came to 
flourish so as even to challenge the supremacy of the 
Universite itself. We were met by a body of repre- 
sentative professors, wearing the robes of their degrees, 
and welcomed on behalf of the French Government 
by M. Briand, and by M. Liard, who, as Vice-Rector, 
spoke in the name of the Universite. Sir Edward Busk, 
Vice-Chancellor of the University of London, Sir 
William Collins, and others, made suitable replies. 
Other speakers followed, and the company adjourned to 
the Hotel de Ville, to be entertained at dejeuner by the 
Municipalite of Paris. Numerous toasts and speeches 

notably by M. Pichon and Sir Francis Bertie 
attended this function, which was further enlivened by 
selections played by the band of the Municipal Guard. 
We next visited Versailles, our hosts providing a 
special train from the Gare des Invalides. In the 
Trianon we heard a concert of ancient music, agreeably 

rendered in appropriate surroundings on a choice set 



270 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

of old stringed and keyboard instruments. Returning 
to Paris we attended, along with a number of repre- 
sentatives of the University of Paris, a reception given 
by Sir Francis Bertie at the British Embassy. The 
following day there was a special train to Chantilly, 
and other functions agreeably arranged by our hosts, 
prominent among which were visits to the Universite 
and other representative educational centres of Paris. 
The next day opened with a visit to the tomb of Louis 
Pasteur, and to the Institute founded by the great 
chemist and physicist, from the laboratories of which 
have flowed so many beneficent gifts to mankind. 
Prof. J. R. Bradford, in depositing a wreath on the 
tomb of Pasteur on behalf of the University of London, 
felicitously referred to the great honour of being the 
bearer of the homage and admiration felt by his 
University for Pasteur, and also to the cordial relations 
of Pasteur and our own Lister. In the afternoon of 
the same day, along with our French colleagues we 
were received by the President of the Republic and 
Madame Fallieres at the Elysee. M. Fallieres, in 
addressing those assembled, spoke happily of the 
great satisfaction that he had in being associated with 
such a gathering of representatives of two distinguished 
Universities such as those of Paris and London, and 
made graceful reference to the " courteous reception 
that His Majesty King Edward had extended to the 
Universities of France." We were entertained at a 
grand banquet at the Sorbonne in the evening, which 
was attended also by the British Ambassador and 
M. Briand. I had the pleasure of sitting beside Dr. 
Saint-Saens, who, in spite of his years, bore himself 
with sparkling vivacity, and was one of the lions of 
the occasion. There were numerous toasts and 
speeches. The banquet fittingly concluded with a 
concert given in the Great Hall of the College, when, 



INTERNATIONAL AMENITIES 271 

under the direction of M. Gabriel Pierne, the fine 
Colonne Orchestra was heard in a well-chosen 
selection, and artists from the Opera-Comique sang. A 
feature of the programme was some dances, charmingly 
presented by a troupe under the direction of M. Paul 
Vidal, comprising among other items a Gavotte of 
Lulli, a Rigaudon of Dardanus, and a Menuet of 
Handel. Dr. Saint-Saens won much applause by his 
performance of his Fantasia for Pianoforte, " Africa," 
accompanied by the orchestra, and concluded the 
programme by conducting a brilliant interpretation ot 
Berlioz's " Marche Hongroise." The medal of the 
University of Paris was conferred upon Dr. Saint-Saens 
amid the prolonged applause of the audience. 

We of the University of London dispersed with the 
feeling that our visit had indeed proved a great success. 
Ever in my mind are the pregnant words of M. Fallieres, 
spoken at the Elysee, when he said that he was 
persuaded that such rapprochements between the 
representatives of learning of the two nations would 
further the happiness and peace of the world and 
enhance the prosperity and glory of the peoples. The 
world has seen vast and momentous changes the 
passing of great empires, the spectacle of a stupendous 
drama whose end is not yet since that speech was 
uttered at Paris twelve years ago. But its essential 
truth is unchanged, and is susceptible of a wider 
application. 

A ceremonial attended with much eclat was that of 
the laying of the first stone of the new buildings of the 
Imperial College of Science and Technology, at 
South Kensington, by King Edward, who was 
accompanied by Queen Alexandra. This brilliant 
function took place in July, 1909. The proposed 
institution was close to my own University of London, 
and when my friend Dr. Henry T. Bovey, the Rector 



272 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

of the new College, came and asked me to provide 
appropriate music to grace and assist the ceremony, I 
greatly appreciated being selected for this honour. 
Dr. Bovey was one of the many friends whom I had 
met in Canada, where at his charming residence he 
had entertained me with engaging kindness. His attain- 
ments had procured his nomination to the important 
post of Rector of this institution devoted to the most 
advanced training and research in science, especially in 
its relation to industry. 

By permission of the Dean, the full choir of the 
Abbey was able to attend. I arranged a representative 
programme of glees, madrigals, and other part-music, 
which found much acceptance in performance. At the 
moment when His Majesty tapped and levelled the 
stone, and declared it to be " well and truly laid," 
I conducted the choir in a setting of Joseph Addison's 
magnificent hymn, " The spacious firmament on high," 
which I had specially composed for the occasion. 

The College has well established its usefulness, and 
in the early days of the War period I believe rendered 
valuable aid to the country in assisting in research 
work that was inseparable from the establishment of 
those key-industries so essential to our national 
prosperity. 

I preserve with considerable pleasure my recollec- 
tion of the part allotted to me in the proceedings. 
Functions of this kind, and civic ceremonies, hold an 
attraction for me, hence, when Sir George Truscott 
who was also Master of the Musicians' Company 
became Lord Mayor of London, I welcomed the 
unusual experience of riding with other members 
of the Ancient Company in the historic pageant. 
Our raiment was meet for the occasion, comprising 
gowns and cocked hats, and we thought we looked 
very imposing. But at intervals, and during the 



FROM EAST TO WEST 273 

inevitable stoppages, we had to sustain the customary 
Cockaigners' chaff as best we might. A picture that 
I readily recall is of a portly dame somewhere in the 
East City, bearing scaly evidences of her occupation, 
smirking close to our carriage and saying with the 
most engaging familiarity, " I'm sorry me an' me 
'usbun' can't dine with yer to-night 'cos we've got 
another hingagement." The bystanders were hugely 
delighted, while we pretended to take no notice which 
no human being has ever yet succeeded in doing. 
Perhaps we only contrived to look annoyed. 

It is a far cry from the Lord Mayor's procession 
to the Albert Hall ; but so also is it from the 
Gresham Lectures to the University of London. 
From East to West the course of the sun is a 
transit with which I am familiar, and do not find at 
all difficult. 

The Royal Choral Society had its inception in 1872, 
by the amalgamation of a choral body founded and 
conducted in 1871 by Charles Gounod, with Barnby's 
Choir. From this emerged the famous organization 
conducted for twenty-four years by Joseph Barnby. 
First under the name of the Royal Albert Hall Choral 
Society, and later, in 1888 (by command of Queen 
Victoria), of the Royal Choral Society, it maintained a 
high degree of choral technique and enjoyed a wide 
distinction for its consistently distinguished perform- 
ances of classic choral works. The fine traditions that 
Barnby inspired have persisted after his death. 
Subtle nuances of interpretation and ethereal delicacy 
of vocal effects that are features of much modern 
choral writing are, however, impracticable in the vast 
auditorium of the Albert Hall, and with the huge 
forces employed. Hence in a measure the general 
adherence of the Society to those works in which the 
choral picture may be painted in bold, rich, moving 

T 



274 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

outline and mass. Since accepting the office of 
conductor in 1896 I venture to say that the pro- 
grammes have been as varied as is possible having in 
view all the factors that have to be considered, and 
I think the progress of the Society would show 
that its patrons have been well satisfied with the 
standard of achievement maintained. 

It is well known that for many years, as conductor 
of the Royal Choral Society, I have discarded 
altogether Mozart's additional accompaniments to 
" Messiah." I had always looked askance at these 
embellishments, and my objection to them was 
crystallized by the following letter from Sir George 
(then Mr.) Grove : 

" Lower Sydenham, S.E., 

" September igth, 1896. 

" DEAR BRIDGE, I don't know if you have yet 
made out your Albert Hall programme, but wouldn't 
it be a very interesting thing to do the ' Messiah ' with 
the original accompaniments ? Mozart's additions, 
though lovely enough, are additions ; and not always 
in keeping with the original score. Suppose that 
Wagner had been able to force on us his proposed 
additions to the score of the Scherzo of No. 9 : 




wouldn't it be a very nice thing to hear it as B. 
wrote it ? 

" The proportion of wind to string in the orchestra 
was different in Handel's time from what it is now ; 
but I believe that is no secret. Do think about it. 

" I hope you are both quite well and have had plenty 
of fishing and ' other delights.' 

" Yours always, 

" G. GROVE." 



ADDITIONAL ACCOMPANIMENTS 275 

To my mind, the gain in dispensing with these 
accompaniments is immense. The beautiful effects 
of the high trumpet parts in " Glory to God," 
omitted by Mozart ; the charming scoring of the 
" Pastoral Symphony," with the divided strings, 
and without the wretched alteration of the first 
bar which is found in Mozart ; the glorious high 
trumpet parts in the "Hallelujah Chorus," "Worthy 
is the Lamb," and " Amen Chorus," always compensate 
me for the loss of several really beautiful orchestral 
touches by Mozart. 

That this reversion to Handelian purity has not 
detracted from the work as one to attract the public is 
proved by the fact that the receipts have regularly gone 
up during the last six or seven years. Some years ago 
it was considered very satisfactory to get a house ol 
500 or 600. This year (1918) " Messiah " attracted 
to one performance little short of .1,000. 

My old friend Prout had no misgivings concerning 
"improvements," his energies and attainments finding 
an outlet in providing embellishments for several of 
Handel's oratorios notably " Samson," for the Leeds 
festival of 1880 even Bach has not escaped, as witness 
the Professor's words adapted to the "48." 

Prout's zeal for musico-editorial touching-up brought 
forth an amusing cartoon by Charles Lyall, in which 
Prout, with a huge brush,* is depicted " a-touching- 
up the old un','' the "old un' " being a suggestion of 
the Handel monument in the Abbey. Another old 
friend of mine, Joseph Bennett, is shown, clothed in 
the majesty of the law, and adjuring the "toucher-up" 
to move on. 

Bennett, writing in the Musical Herald of February, 
1899, in referring to one of my Gresham lectures in 

'' Dipped in " Franz's patent " (Franz's " touchings-up " of Bach and 
Handel are well known). 



276 



A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 



which it was proposed to deal with the subject of 
additional accompaniments, said that probably I would 
" show that Mozart was guilty of other things than 
so treating the unisons of ' The people that walked in 
darkness' as entirely to counteract the composer's 
purpose. Handel set forth the idea of groping 




POLICEMAN ]. B. " Hullo ! What are yer up to ? " 

E. P. " A-touching-up the old un.' " 

POLICEMAN J. B. " Yer mus'n't touch the moniments. Move on!" 

about in the dark ; Mozart lit up the scene with 
a radiance of harmony which, though exceedingly 
beautiful, is entirely out of place and subversive." 

Whatever may be said for the heresy which finds 
.adherents, that Handel diverted or dammed-up the 



HANDEL MONUMENTS 277 

springs of purely English music, it must I think be 
recognised that the mighty Saxon had the mental 
acuity to perceive, and the genius to stimulate, the 
latent potentialities of our countrymen for choral 
performance. His oratorios must have been inbreathed 
with the very breath of life to have gained their over- 
shadowing ascendency which even now is hardly 
challenged, while the majesty of some of his 
conceptions, and the sure instinct of the nation in 
turning to them for solace or jubilation in the great 
hours of its history, presage a life for the master's 
works that shall survive the lure of "additional 
accompaniments " or the meretricious glamour of 
" readings." 

Arising out of these Handelian references, it is 
interesting to recall that Handel was at one time 
closely identified with Vauxhall Gardens, the famous 
and fashionable resort though not in its later days 
that existed till 1859. A rare print in my possession 
gives a view of the Gardens which is interesting as 
showing Roubiliac's fine monument to Handel erected 
there. This valuable artistic and historical relic was 
acquired by the Sacred Harmonic Society, and after- 
wards was purchased by the late Mr. Henry Littleton. 
It is now in the entrance hall of Messrs. Novello's 
premises in Wardour Street. The sculptor has 
represented the Master playing upon a lyre. Dignified 
in conception and admirable in execution, this statue 
has always seemed to me to be superior to the Abbey 
monument. Roubiliac's other statues, in the Abbey and 
elsewhere the Duke of Argyll, Sir Isaac Newton, &c. 
are well known. 

Probably the most striking portrait of Handel is, I 
venture to suggest, a small bust by the celebrated 
Staffordshire potter, Ralph Wood. A contemporary 
of Handel, he may have modelled the bust from life. 



278 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

I am the fortunate possessor of one of Wood's busts, 
presented to me by my father-in-law, Mr. Reginald N. 
Wood, of Bignall End, Staffs, who is a direct 
descendant of Ralph Wood. 

In my early years in London I was a regular 
attendant at the concerts of the (now Royal) 
Philharmonic Society. Cusins was then the conductor, 
and I always thought that he did his work well. 
Among my very clear recollections are some hot 
disputes over the merits of the " Meistersinger " 
Overture when it was first played. I became a 
Director of the Society in 1882 (in the same year 
that I was elected a member). At that time it was 
not very flourishing financially, being really rather 
difficult to carry on. I worked hard in helping to 
maintain the status and influence of the old Society. 
Particularly active co-workers in those years were 
Charles Gardner, C. E. Stephens, Francesco Berger, 
and W. H. Cummings. It is good to see how 
this historic institution and link with the past has 
survived, especially the precarious War period so 
recently passed. I hope that it will flourish with 
increased vigour for many decades to come. 

Sir Julius Benedict was a fellow-director with me 
when I was elected. He was extremely pleasant and 
amiable, being particularly good to me when, quite 
inadvertently, I permitted myself to be responsible 
for a breach of a nice point of procedure that was 
protected by rule. My friend Maas was singing at 
one of the Society's concerts, and elected to perform a 
scena from my cantata " Boadicea." No objection 
was raised, nor was anything said to me till after the 
concert, when, at a Directors' meeting, the matter was 
brought up somewhat needlessly, I thought by one 
present, as a breach of order. It then appeared that 
there was a rule I suppose a very good one that 



A STORM IN A TEACUP 279 

the Directors should not have their own works 
performed. I had neither known nor suspected the 
existence of this rule. Sir Julius came to the rescue, 
and, suave, reasonable and conciliatory, brushed the 
matter aside. 




Maas in borrowed clothes. By Charles Lyall. 

Maas's concert experiences were rich in adventures. 
The outcome of my friend's generously conceived 
inadvertence was a storm in a teacup which beat 
around me. He could describe with great humour and 



280 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

delightful mimetic embroideries my consternation in 
the matter, with which really I had nothing to do ; but 
also he could describe an incident that took place on 
one of his many provincial engagements that told 
against himself. Upon arriving at the scene of a 
concert he found that he had lost the bag containing 
his evening clothes, and there was nothing for it but to 
borrow a dress suit and etceteras from the landlord 
and waiters. Thus, from divers sources, he assembled 
a coat of generous length in the tails, and a pair of 
trousers that, when he donned them, proved to be what 
is commonly called "baggy." Now Maas was rather 
particular concerning his clothes, and, nature having 
decreed for him a sturdy habit, he had decreed for 
himself always to be well tailored. How ruefully 
he surveyed those trousers, creased like concertina 
bellows ! The great difficulty, however, was the waist- 
coat. None could be found to fit him at all events, 
no waistcoat for evening wear till at last the landlord 
remembered a wonderful garment (he was a stout man, 
the landlord) garnished with an aggressive array of 
huge red-coral buttons, and in this thing Maas had to 
appear. Charles Lyall, who was a friend of Maas' r 
made a sketch that delightfully seized the points of 
this remarkable rig out. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 

Renewed Acquaintance with Maas An Operatic Effect that 
Miscarried A Light Opera that was Lost to the World 
Co- Director in an Opera Company Ganz as Entrepreneur 
Fortuitous Intervention of a Sidesman A Ludicrous Faust. 

MY renewed acquaintance with Maas began some little 
time before the incident at the Philharmonic concert 
previously referred to. For several years our paths 
had taken different directions, and I had not heard from 
him, till one day he suddenly accosted me at the organ- 
loft door at Westminster. It need not be said that our 
meeting was very cordial and then we fell to mutual 
admiration : I at his having become first tenor in the 
Carl Rosa Opera Company, he at my being chief- 
musician of the Abbey. Momentarily the years had 
slipped away, and we were boys again. 

It is recorded of Whistler that magician in tonal 
harmonies whose appeal is through the eye that he 
would at times pause before his own imaginative works, 
and ejaculate " amazing." With less justification 
for such whimsical self-criticism, I could at times 
find it in me similarly to appraise some of my own 
undertakings and achievements. For my meeting with 
Maas was indirectly to react upon my life in a rather 
remarkable fashion. 

For a few months I saw much of him. He came 
to the Abbey at his own suggestion, and with the 
complete approval of the Dean (he was persona grata 
with the choir) took part in the memorial service to 
General Gordon, when (as already recorded) he sang with 
movingly beautiful effect, " Be thou faithful unto Death." 



282 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

I often went to see him at the Opera. He was not a 
great actor, his forte laying in his vocalisation and 
interpretative powers. These, when employed with 
Maas resourcefulness, gave me more artistic pleasure 
than many of the foreign operatic stars, who, I am 
persuaded, were (perhaps still are) often better actors 
than singers. 

Maas was particularly effective in Wagner's 
" Rienzi," which was produced at Her Majesty's 
Theatre in 1879. He had an amusing story to tell, 
and he told it well, of his failure to make just the 
effect that he had desired as the hero in this opera. 
There is a scene in which Rienzi, clad in full armour 
and mounted on his charger, sings exultantly : 

Romans, arise, ye bold and dauntless nation . . . 
Brandish your swords, their impious blood be shed ! 

while the assembled warriors beat a martial rhythm 
in ringing clangour with sword on shield. Such is the 
scene, and it was Maas' ambition to make it as 
effective as possible by procuring a " fine tall animal " 
to bestride in the panoply described, and so ensure a 
noble spectacle. 

He betook himself to Astley's Circus, and inter- 
viewed the manager, who was sympathetic, saying he 
thought something could be arranged. Maas was 
careful to explain that it was very important that the 
horse should be quiet, and would not bolt either into 
the orchestra or into the wings at the sound of the 
clashing swords. He left, with the understanding that 
he was to return in a few days. 

Making his way back, after the desired interval, 
Maas was surprised as he entered the Circus to 
hear an extraordinary series of noises shouting, as 
though some one was trying to sing, and a harsh 
clatter of blows proceeding from the stable. There 



AN EQUINE REHEARSAL 283 

he found a horse tied up, and on either side of the 
animal an ostler each singing at the top of his 
voice not exactly operatic songs ! and belabouring 
at the same time, with a stout stick, a suspended iron 
bucket. Maas with some difficulty stopped the din, 
and then inquired, " What on earth are you doing ? " 
To which they replied, " That 's all right, Sir, we're 
giving him a rehearsal " ; and one of the men continued, 
" He don't mind it a bit ! And what 's more, he 's 
that clever ; if you just give the rein a twitch, like so 
[illustrating the twitch], he will lie down and get up 
again quiet as a lamb ! " And sure enough, before 
Maas's wondering eyes, the beast salaamed with 
equine solemnity. 

This was too much for Maas. The idea of giving 
the rein even an involuntary twitch, while reaching a 
high note, and introducing into the midst of his song 
the undulating motion that he had just seen, caused 
him there and then to abandon the idea of the 
circus steed. He had to content himself with the 
staid old hack which had long sustained such roles in 
the Company. 

Maas was a man of many enthusiasms, and these 
were of an infectious kind. He was able to impart 
some of his zeal to me, being very anxious that I 
should try my hand at writing a light opera. Mr. Carl 
Rosa was quite willing to give me a chance. I too was 
willing, but just then had no libretto, and at the moment 
had in hand work for various Festivals. For the time 
being I put the idea aside ; yet it was always latent, 
for some years afterwards Maas and Carl Rosa had 
then passed away I became for a short period a 
Director of the Carl Rosa Company. This undertaking 
was assumed at the special request of a friend (one of 
my great friends in Manchester), Mr. Freemantle, the 
well-known critic of the Manchester Guardian, who was 



284 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

himself a Director of the Company. But I think his 
persuasion was successful only because it fanned the 
embers kindled long before. 

However that may be, there I was, a co-Director in a 
well-known and popular Opera Company. " Amazing ! " 
On the Board, at the same time, was Wilhelm Ganz, 
with whom I became very intimate. In matters con- 
nected with opera-singers and opera generally, Ganz's 
special knowledge and experience were unassailable. 
I formed a high opinion of his judgment, and always 
thought it to be good and honest. It is true that 
he tried to persuade me to embark on an operatic 
career, and actually furnished a libretto. I even wrote 
several numbers ; but after a time found it impossible 
to combine this pursuit with my many other avocations. 
It became necessary to relinquish the work, and shortly 
afterwards also my Directorship. So my operatic 
masterpiece was lost to the world. 

If Ganz's special knowledge would have seemed to 
err in my own case, I am not disposed on that account 
to vary the opinion of his judgment which I have 
expressed. Whatever his sagacity, however, in his own 
special line, his enthusiasm occasionally carried him 
out of his depth, when he found himself directing 
operatic forces in a terrain which he had not surveyed. 
He was much employed in furnishing operatic artists 
for society functions, and on one occasion undertook 
the direction of a company of opera-singers (Italian 
tenors and the like) for an important wedding in 
St. Margaret's, Westminster. Ganz's troupe were 
much impressed, after their manner, with the renown 
that would attach to the ceremony from their presence, 
and proposed to give a sort of sacred concert in 
the church before the service. Archdeacon Farrar 
(the rector) had apparently not been notified concerning 
these extraordinary proceedings. A young sidesman, 



"ME WILL SING HEAH" 285 

however, got wind of them, and went to see what 
was afoot. He was a friend of mine, and told 
me all about it. When he arrived the arrangements 
were well advanced for conducting the rehearsal. 
The singers were there, and the instrumentalists, 
very prominent among whom was a harpist ; and 
of course they proposed to employ the organ. Deter- 
mined upon making a gorgeous effect, they were 
taking up commanding positions in the chancel, and my 
friend the sidesman was horrified to find the principal 
tenor standing at the North side of the altar, where 
he pompously announced, " Me will sing heah " / 
Striding up to him the sidesman quietly but forcibly 
said, "That you certainly won't," and at once a 
bombshell was dropped into the preparations. Had 
the incident occurred elsewhere than in a church, the 
excitement might have run high. Even as it was, 
my friend's difficulty was exceedingly great in dealing 
with these warring stars and the fashionable company 
present. He had to threaten to send for the Archdeacon, 
and in fact did so, but not before a very great lady (the 
mother of the bride, he supposed) had said certain 
things to him in a way that only great ladies can. 
However, Archdeacon Farrar arrived, and with quiet 
authority settled the matter properly. The troupe, and 
the harp, and the company with all kinds of music, 
were hidden away near the organ, much to the relief of 
poor Ganz, who, himself quite reasonable directly the 
nature of the sidesman's objections was explained to 
him, dreaded the effect upon the very touchy team he 
was driving. He told me afterwards that he would 
rather direct fifty operas than one wedding. I pointed 
out that evidently he knew more about operas and 
theatres than he did about weddings and churches, and 
suggested that in future he should leave these with me. 
Ganz genially conceded that I was right. 



286 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

To return to Maas. A story concerning a well- 
known actor of his day, George P , was told to 

me by my friend. As I have said, Maas could enjoy 
turning the laugh against himself, but also he was 
swift to see the ludicrous where others were con- 
cerned. Yet he was a lovable soul, and set nothing 
down in malice. 

p was taking the title-role in Gounod's " Faust." 

The contretemps to be related occurred at the moment 
when the actor's beard and stage-wig are whisked away 
down a trap-door, and, relieved of the trappings of 
senility, the young and joyous Faust steps forward 
into the limelight in the bloom and beauty of youth. 
The opera had pursued its wonted course up to this 

point, P had placed himself in position near 

the trap-door, and the super who worked the change 
awaited his cue. It came. His hand shot out, but he 
grabbed more than was prescribed, for lo ! there stood 
revealed a perfectly bald Faust, lacking even a tonsure. 
The zealous super had dragged away the actor's own 
private wig along with the hirsute property guise. 

P realised the situation in a flash, and swiftly 

reclaimed his wig from the disappearing hand of the 
super. But the audience had seen, and, as audiences 
always relish unrehearsed effects, it roared, and rocked 

itself with delight even after P had replaced 

his locks and resumed his impressive part. He got 
through it, but he was disconcerted, and furious. The 
cause for such sustained merriment seemed to him 
insufficient ; but he learned the reason when, leaving the 
stage, he sought a mirror. In his agitation he had 
replaced his wig the wrong way round. If the actor was 
furious before, he was now mad with rage, and his 

wrath demanded the chastisement of the " super," 

the cause of his mortification. Like Saul of Tarsus he 
was yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter, when 



AN OVER-ZEALOUS SUPER 287 

the super appeared a huge man of brawn and muscle, 
in his shirt-sleeves and apron, just come from his work. 

11 Hullo, Mr. P ," cried he, "do you want me ?" 

P was a small man. His bellicose intentions 

vanished with the rapidity of his wig not many minutes 
before. Looking his opponent up and down for a 

second, he gasped out, "Yes, sir; d n you, sir!" 

and ran. 



CHAPTER XXV. 

The Musical Association Re-opening of Manchester Cathedral 
Organ Career and Death of Malibran Manuel Garcia : 
Centenary Banquet and Honours. 

IT is interesting to reflect, as I look back, that 
nearly the whole of the educational and examining 
bodies in music now existing in the Metropolis have 
been established in my lifetime. The same may be 
said of the one learned Society entirely devoted to 
music, which was founded in 1874. 

The Musical Association was the outcome of 
suggestions put forward by Sir John Stainer and 
Sir Frederick Ouseley for the formation of a Society 
whose object should be "the investigation and 
discussion of subjects connected with the art and 
science of music." These objects have been kept 
constantly in view during the forty-four years of the 
existence of the Association. 

I was one of the original members, and after coming 
to reside in London attended its meetings regularly. 
Those meetings in the early days of the Association 
I recall with lively interest. The papers read were 
really excellent a standard that has been well 
maintained and the discussions that followed were 
sometimes even better than the papers. It is trite 
to say, as we all do at times, as we grow older, " there 
were giants in those days," yet now and then it occurs 
to me that many of those old disputants have not 
been replaced. Famous among them was Sir George 
Macfarren, to hear whose comments on a paper that 




CONTEMPORARY BUST OF HANDEL, 
MODELLED BY RALPH WOOD, BURSLEM, STAFFS. 



RETURN TO MANCHESTER 289 

had been read was an intellectual treat. He displayed 
extraordinary facility in choice of language, and 
revealed remarkable powers of analytical reasoning. 
Stainer, too, was very prominent and popular, 
contributing an excellent series of valuable papers 
extending over seven volumes of the " Proceedings," 
while Prof. Adams, F.R S., D. J. Blaikley, William 
Chappell, Cummings, Curwen, Grove, Higgs, Hullah, 
Osborne, Ouseley, Prout, Salaman, Southgate, Turpin, 
among others, are names that leap to the mind. 

Charles Salaman was the first secretary, having 
also collaborated with Ouseley and Stainer in the 
inauguration of the Society. He was a delightful 
personality, without a spark of ill-nature and brimful 
of enthusiasm. My old friend G. A. Osborne was one 
of the first members of the Council. Some of the 
earlier volumes of the Association's "Proceedings" 
will shortly be numbered among rare prints. The 
members have done me the honour to elect me, for 
a time, to the office of President, left vacant by the 
regretted death of Sir Hubert Parry. The meetings 
have found many venues : at the old Beethoven 
Rooms, in Harley Street, at the Royal Academy 
of Music, at the Royal College of Organists, at 
Messrs. Broadwoods', and now at the Novello Hall, 
Wardour Street. The Association was incorporated 
in 19 >4. 

In the midst of many preoccupations I found 
time now and then for what I may call professional 
relaxation. A matter which came very near to my 
heart was to learn of the projected rebuilding of my 
old organ at Manchester, and in following the recon- 
struction I noted its many points of improvement 
with much satisfaction. It was like stepping back 
across the decades into the years of my young 
manhood when, in December, 1910, responding to the 

u 



2QO A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

invitation of Bishop Welldon and Mr. Nicholson, 
I journeyed to Manchester to collaborate with 
Dr. Kendrick Pyne in the opening ceremony of what 
was in fact a new instrument. Dr. Pyne had 
resigned the organistship of the Cathedral in 1908. 
It was a graceful act on the part of the Dean 
and Chapter thus to remember their former chief- 
musicians, and bring them back to the scene of many 
happy memories to assist in so momentous an event. 
We greatly appreciated the honour thus conferred. 

I venture to append some excerpts from an account 
of the proceedings, written by Mr. Filson Young, an 
accomplished litterateur and cultured musician, which 
appeared at the time in the Manchester Guardian. 
Speaking of Dr. Pyne and myself, he said : 

" They both looked astonishingly young which is also 
remarkable ; one does not expect anyone to look young who has 
continued to do any one thing for five-and-thirty years . . . 
But the playing of both of them was a reminder that experience 
does not necessarily spell incapacity . . ." 

And he continued : 

"It says not a little for Sir Frederick that amid the many 
duties of his public musical life in London he has retained 
the executive skill necessary for a performance like this ; 
for technique is nowadays a much more formidable thing 
than it was in his young days, and it would have been no 
discredit to him had he chosen to rest on his laurels and not to 
compete with the younger school. But his playing yesterday 
was a reminder to younger organists that they are not likely to 
have things their own way for a long time. He came to 
Manchester, indeed, not to exhibit his playing, but, one likes 
to think, out of love for the old place and the old building 
and no one would have felt the occasion to be complete without 
him. It is all the more gratifying then to be able to praise his 
performance, which was particularly good in the Larghetto of 
Wesley and the Choral Fugue of Merkel ; it was delightful to 
see him and hear him in his old place, where his many friends 
in Manchester will hope to see and hear him again, and to wish 
him many more happy years of service in Westminster Abbey." 



EX-ORGANISTS OF MANCHESTER 291 

The writer went on to speak in most gratifying terms 
of the performances of Dr. Pyne, referring to his 
" direct inheritance of the Wesley tradition." 

Mr. Sydney H. Nicholson also took part in this 
re-opening ceremony. The work of renovation and 
addition was carried out by Messrs. Hill, the builders 
of the organ erected in 1872 by the generosity of 
Sir William Houldsworth, to which I have already 
referred. 

For the illustration on another leaf I am indebted to 
the kind thought of Mr. Nicholson. If the members of 
this group of ex-organists of Manchester cannot be 
said to represent a sonata in being, at all events 
they combine three " movements." The first was 
executed by myself, when I left Manchester for the 
Abbey ; the second by Dr. Kendrick Pyne, who retired 
in 1908, and the third in his turn by Mr. Nicholson, 
the successor of Dr. Pyne, when he followed me 
to Westminster. In 1911 Dr. Pyne was made an 
" Officier d'Academie de France." Articled to S. S. 
Wesley, at Winchester, he retains many pleasant 
recollections of his distinguished master. 

In the midst of this ceremonial visit to the scene of 
so many treasured associations, in pensive mood I 
permitted myself to indulge for a brief hour the 
luxury of retrospection, tasting those twin ecstasies, 
pleasure and pain. In my perambulations, pausing 
now here, now there, it was borne in upon me, 
as indeed so often before, that nowhere in this 
sanctuary was there a memorial to record that within 
its walls rested for a while the remains of Maria 
Felicita Malibran. As will presently be shown, I have 
a more intimate prompting in this connection than the 
natural regret of a musician at this neglect. Malibran 
made her debut in opera in London on June 7, 1825, 
playing Rosina in Rossini's " II Barbiere." Thereafter 



292 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

she was to be one of the queens of song, and 
literally carried the musical world by storm. She 
died, in her twenty-eighth year, while fulfilling an 
engagement at the Manchester Festival of 1836, 
when, for the last time in sacred music, and with 
undiminished artistry, her glorious voice was heard in 
the Cathedral in " Sing ye to the Lord," from Handel's 
" Israel in Egypt." 

She was buried in the Cathedral, and thrre months 
afterwards was disinterred and conveyed to Laeken 
in Belgium. 

Upwards of thirty years after Malibran's death, 
upon starting my work at Manchester I was so 
fortunate as to have the advice and assistance of 
Manuel Garcia, her brother. I had been told that 
it would be well to get some authoritative hints on 
voice-production, as such knowledge might be useful 
to me with a view to pupils in my new surroundings. 
Through the introduction of an old pupil of his 
whom I knew at Windsor, I called upon Garcia 
in London, and explained my wants. He was very 
kind, and placed himself entirely at my disposal, 
imparting his own special knowledge and practical 
insight into the technique of singin^, acquired in a 
life's study, without reservation. And he refused to 
take a fee. After many years I renewed his acquaint- 
ance at the Abbey, and hold his memory in great 
reverence. I had the pleasure of directing the 
theoretical studies of his young daughter, Miss Paula 
Garcia, at the Royal College of Music. Afterwards she 
proceeded to the degree of Mus. Bac. of the Univeisity 
of London. It is pleasant to recall Miss Garcia's 
wedding, at a delightful spot in Kent, which I attended 
as one of a large company of guests, having also 
the gratification of contributing some musical items to 
the happy occasion. 



CENTENARY OF MANUEL GARCIA 293 

Garcia delighted in the music at the Abbey, and 
would come frequently to hear me play. On one 
occasion, when he was little short of a hundred years 
of age, he came to one of our Carol Services, afterwards 
writing me the following letter : 

" Mon Abri, 

" Cricklewood. 

" DEAR SIR FREDERICK, We have to thank you for 
a most delightful afternoon. The Carol Service was 
perfect. What beautiful voices the boys have who 
sang the solos round, clear, steady, and true ! Heard 
in the semi-darkness of the Abbey, those voices had 
an exquisite effect, and they are all as well trained as 
they are beautiful. 

"Please give my kind regards to Lady Bridge and 
thank her for her hospitality. With best wishes to you 
both, " Believe me, 

"Yours very sincerely, 

" MANUEL GARCIA." 

I value very highly this testimony to my method of 
training the boys in the Abbey choir. 

Garcia celebrated his hundredth birthday on March 
lyth, 1905, the event acquiring significance by a 
reception held in his honour at the Royal Medical 
and Chirurgical Society in Hanover Square, the 
proceedings being directed by Sir Felix Semon, who 
stated that it gave him very great pleasure to be able 
to announce that the King had that morning, at 
Buckingham Palace, made Manuel Garcia the 
recipient of the Commandership of the Royal 
Victorian Order. Many representatives of the arts 
and sciences were present, Sir Hubert Parry, 
Sir Alexander Mackenzie, Sir Charles Santley, 
Mr. Otto Goldschmidt, Walter Macfarren, Alberto 
Randegger, along with others, including myself, 



2Q4 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

attended on behalf of music. A banquet followed the 
reception, at which the King was represented by Lord 
Suffield. At this function the hero of the evening, 
besides hearing many speeches made in his honour, 
was handed the following telegram from the Right Hon. 
A. J. Balfour: " I send heartiest congratulations." 

Garcia was born at Madrid in 1805. He died at 
his residence in London in 1906. 

It is curious to reflect that one has been intimate 
with a man whose lifetime had seen the birth, develop- 
ment, and death of Mendelssohn, Chopin, Schumann, 
Verdi, Wagner, and Brahms ; whose father was that 
celebrated tenor for whom Rossini wrote the part of 
Almaviva in " Le Barbiere di Siviglia"; who might 
have known Beethoven, and who certainly had heard 
his sister (Malibran) in opera in some of her most 
magnificent interpretations.* His fame rests not so 
much on his success as a voice-trainer (Jenny Lind was 
a pupil of his in 1841) as upon his scientific attainments 
and his invention of the laryngoscope. Huxley is 
convincing in his estimate of the value of this instrument ; 
Sir Felix Semon said of it that " about three per cent, 
of all human beings have reason to bless the name of 
Manuel Garcia." 

Like many other musicians, e.g,, Sir Walter Parratt, 
Garcia was an enthusiastic chess-player. Doyle made 
a spirited sketch of Charles Halle and Garcia absorbed 
in a game (see Illus.). 

In spite of his great age, he preserved a striking 
elasticity and nimbleness of movement. On one 
occasion when he came to see me at the Abbey he 
stumbled and nearly fell in descending the steps from 
the Nave into the Cloisters, but recovered himself with 

*Yet I have drawn near to a remoter horizon, peopled with some 
national musical worthies, as I shall presently show when speaking 
of one of my predecessors at Westminster. 



AN EPISCOPAL CATASTROPHE 295 

rare agility. The mishap might have proved dangerous 
to a younger man ! In congratulating him upon his 
alertness, I recounted a story told to me by Turle, who 
had once seen a bishop in full episcopal habit and wig 
complete, fall headlong down a similar flight of steps at 
the other end of the Cloisters. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 



Resume of Canadian Journey The Scotch Element in Canada 
Canadian Musicians : the Cathedral Tradition Dr. Charles 
Harriss Ottawa and its Historic Associations Colours of 
Canadian Regiments at the Abbey Anniversary of Confedera- 
tion of Canada. 



GLANCING back at my Canadian journey, to which I have 
already made reference (see page 216), an embarrassment 
emerges, if indeed such it can be called, for I was in 
the position of one who came nigh to being crushed 
under an avalanche of hospitality. What I have 
in mind are the invitations to luncheon lavished 
upon me by the Canadian Clubs. These social bodies 
appear to exist in every place claiming to be called a 
town, and are a curious institution. It seemed to 
me that the members rushed out of their offices and 
places of business to meet at one o'clock for a simple 
lunch. Then, if a traveller came along, they secured 
him and made him welcome ; and if he were a traveller 
of note, well, then they welcomed him again, and 
endeavoured also to get him to speak. As they 
were always practising this endeavour upon me, I 
suppose I was bracketed in the latter category. These 
functions as I saw them invariably concluded with the 
National Anthem, a matter which always pleased and 
surprised me, as in pre-War days we English seemed 
afraid to sing our national hymn at any large 
gathering. All was over in an hour a crowded hour 
and off the members rushed again to their various 
offices. 



A RIDE IN A "RIG" 297 

When one had been travelling long distances, 
with the obligation of lecturing and playing an organ 
solo or two, it became real hard work to take part 
in such events, and very often I put up some sort of 
strategy and tried to escape. But it was very difficult 
to rebuff the abounding cordiality that so evidently 
prompted their desire to secure me as a guest. At one 
place I think it was Moose Jaw I had been persuaded 
to accept one of these Club luncheons, and as there 
seemed to be time had gone for a run of some miles 
over the prairie in a motor to see an Indian encamp- 
ment. I was due back at one o'clock. On the return 
journey the motor got bogged, and we had to leave 
it and walk some distance. Then my guide went into 
a house and telephoned to the Club. Returning, he 
told me they were sending a "rig" for us. When it 
arrived it proved to be a curious "machine" as they 
say in Scotland very light, and uncomfortable to 
travel in. But getting up, off we went at a 
fearful pace. I made sure we should be killed. The 
wheels banged and leaped on the hard ground, for 
there was no road. Once the horse went down in 
crossing a railway track. Scrambling up instantly, 
however, off he went again at the same furious speed. 

We reached the Club rather late, to find a large 
gathering assembled. My reception was indeed warm. 
In making a speech, I detailed a few of my experiences 
not only on that day in the " rig," but on other days. 
One point, I remember, particularly amused them. 
I said I found so many things very different from the 
old country. For instance, that morning I was lying 
comfortably in bed when a telephone bell in my 
room rang violently. Jumping up, I went to the 
instrument, thinking perhaps there was a fire. " Eight 
o'clock, Sir," said a voice. " I know it is, you ass," 
I replied, and went back to bed again. "Now," said I, 



298 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

" in England I am called by a servant who enters 
quietly, and if I don't want to get up I needn't." And 
so I went on with various matters, making a fairly long 
speech. It seemed to please them in fact, I heard 
of its effect during the afternoon. A friend of mine 
went into a bank, and the manager was at the 
telephone, evidently describing my speech. Said he, 
" You should have been there, he was great : and 
talked longer and better about nothing than anyone 
I ever heard ! " I felt rather complimented at hearing 
this, and certainly that speech made an impression, 
for my next lecture was attended by a tremendous 
crowd and the receipts were greater than on any other 
occasion. 

The Scotch element is very strong in many parts 
of Canada, and particularly along the route of the 
Canadian-Pacific Railway. In these flourishing 
communities it is not surprising that the best 
churches and the best organs are found as a rule 
to belong to Presbyterian bodies, and not to the 
Church of England. To me it was a matter for 
regret to learn that such was the case. I met many 
excellent clergy of the English Communion, but could 
not help feeling that their condition was not what it 
might have been, and that the Church of England 
did not flourish here as by its great traditions it 
should have done. That was the impression that I 
received, although it is possible it may have been 
wrong, and indeed I hope it was. 

There are some very excellent and enthusiastic 
musicians among the organists of Canada. I made 
it a point always if I could to meet them, and was 
anxious that our own Royal College of Organists 
should extend its ambit and make its great influence 
felt in the Dominion. There was, I found, a great 
desire among the best Canadians that this should be 



PROPAGANDA WORK IN CANADA 299 

so. But my report to the Royal College was not 
favourably received, no action being taken. Yet 
some good came out of my efforts, for a flourishing 
Guild of Organists is now established in Canada, and 
its propaganda cannot fail to improve matters very 
much. The selection of our Cathedral music which 
was performed at my various lectures created great 
interest among organists and choirmasters. Some 
of the pieces (e.g., by Dering and Wesley) were quite 
unknown to them. I have reason to believe that my 
visit opened a door to many of my listeners by which 
they entered into the rich and wonderful storehouse of 
the Cathedral music of the Church of England, and 
perceived its manifold beauties. By so much may 
I claim to have benefited the cause that lay so near my 
heart when embarking on my arduous tour. 

If thus I may have sown some seed which in due 
time should come to fruition, the soil had already been 
tilled in certain areas by at least one ardent enthusiast. 
I refer to my friend Dr. Charles Harriss. 

Dr. Harriss imbibed the Cathedral tradition at an 
early age as a chorister at St. Michael's College, 
Tenbury, under Sir Frederick Ouseley. Proceeding to 
Canada as a young man, he has consistently upheld this 
essentially English aspect of noble and inspiring music. 
He has lived strenuous days, his propaganda work 
so aptly named by him " musical reciprocity " having 
taken him on some world tours with bodies of highly- 
trained choralists, who have achieved great success. 
It is with very great pleasure that I record the 
cordiality and goodwill that he and Mrs. Harriss 
extended to me, entertaining me right royally at their 
beautiful home, " Earnscliffe," at Ottawa. This house, 
once the residence of Sir John Macdonald, Premier 
of Canada, is, strangely enough, the place where 
Dr. Harriss stayed as a guest of Sir John on the first 



300 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

visit that he paid to Ottawa. I recall that in 1891 
we held a Memorial Service in the Abbey for this 
distinguished Colonial statesman. I treasure the 
memory of my stay at " Earnscliffe," and of the 
number of delightful people whom I met there. 

While at Ottawa I embraced the opportunity of 
visiting the spot where Wolfe fell, and the scene of the 
capture of the Heights of Abraham. Thus was I able 
to appreciate how faithfully the picture has been 
chiselled by the artist who carved the Wolfe monument 
erected in Westminster Abbey. 

As I stood on the historic spot, and mentally 
recalled the proud monument at home, I had no 
prevision of the solemnities centreing around the 
classic victory and its memorial in which I should 
ere many years be an actor. I refer to the regimental 
colours of those grand Dominion soldiers that were 
fittingly deposited in the keeping of Westminster 
Abbey, draping the " symbol of Canadian Liberty " as 
Wolfe's monument has not inaptly been called while 
the regiments were at the Front. Frequently I played 
at these ceremonies, and when the colours were 
reclaimed. Alas ! in many cases the officers who 
deposited them returned not to claim them again. 
Their young, ardent lives had been laid down and 
gloriously laid down for the liberty of the world. 

Here it is meet to refer to the great Canadian 
festival held in the Abbey in 1917, in the midst of 
the War. On July 22nd of that year there was 
celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the Confederation 
of Canada, and occasion was taken to include in the 
commemoration a solemn memorial in honour of 
the sons of the Dominion fallen in the War. Their 
Majesties The King and Queen attended, the high 
officers of State and numerous dignitaries at home 
and from our Colonial Empire were present, while the 



301 

great building was thronged with a huge congregation, 
conspicuous being many of the stalwart men whom 
Canada had splendidly lavished to stand with the 
liberal peoples in safeguarding civilization. 

The proceedings were throughout infused with a 
noble dignity and simplicity. " O Canada," the opening 
hymn, was sung with great fervour, the organ being 
supplemented by a fine band belonging to one of 
the Canadian regiments. Parry's Coronation anthem, 
" I was glad when they said unto me " preceded the 
Commemoration and the ascription of Honour to the 
fallen, recited by the Dean. The latter concluded with 
some moving sentences that surely merit quotation : 

" Not in vain, not forgotten, not unhonoured, 
have they laid down their lives. Ypres, Vimy 
Ridge, and a hundred other fights have crowned 
with imperishable splendour the glory of Canadian 
nationhood." 

So in splendour and majesty the service moved to its 
appointed end. An innovation which might have been 
startling in the old decorous days that now seem so 
long ago, was the singing of "The Maple Leaf" before 
the National Anthem. But its inclusion gave great 
pleasure to the Canadians present, and sung as 
also was the opening hymn by the great congregation, 
accompanied by band and organ, the effect was superb. 
Those who were privileged to be present brought away 
an imperishable memory. 

The service book was embellished with the armorial 
bearings of the Dominion of Canada. Only those 
conversant with the science of heraldry and its quaint 
verbiage could adequately describe the original. 
But I recognised one of the " animate charges," as I 
believe they are called, from his lively resemblance to 
the salmon that we take out of the Deveron. 



CHAPTER XXVII. 

An Early Canadian Friend Madame Albani and Queen Victoria 
Oratorio "The Repentance of Nineveh" Norwich Festival 
and "Morte d' Arthur" An Incident in the Highlands "A 
Pretty Trio " Randegger and the Coronation Choir Jubilee 
of Cambridge University Musical Society Tchaikovsky and 
Saint-Sae'ns Grieg at a Philharmonic Concert. 

I HAVE spoken of the many Canadian friends whose 
acquaintance I made in the summer of 1908; yet my 
earliest Canadian friend was that supreme artist, 
Madame Albani. To her I have been indebted on 
many occasions for beautiful interpretations of my 
music performed at the different Festivals in those 
spacious days when such music-makings were thought 
worth while. She always took the most extreme 
pains to realise the intentions that had animated my 
compositions, and invariably succeeded in conveying 
to me that she made no difference between her attitude 
towards my humble efforts and those of much greater 
men. 

In 1890 my dramatic oratorio " The Repentance of 
Nineveh" was produced at the Worcester Triennial 
Festival, my gracious friend singing the principal solos. 
She was much struck by an Aria, " Hear ye and give 
ear," and later very kindly and entirely spontaneously 
brought my composition to the notice of Queen 
Victoria. I append some extracts from a letter that 
she wrote to me from Braemar, where she was staying, 
in September of the same year: 

" DEAR DR. BRIDGE, Soon after my return from 
Worcester, Her Majesty The Queen honoured me 
with a visit, and over tea I took the opportunity of 



RECOLLECTIONS OF RANDEGGER 303 

speaking of our grand Festival, and of your work. She 
seemed much interested in it all, and I asked her 
permission to sing the air, ' Hear ye and give ear/ the 
next time I went to Balmoral ... I could not go until 
yesterday. I sang it, and it seemed to make as good 
an impression in the drawing-room as it did in the 
Cathedral ; and the Queen was much pleased, and said 
it was 'very clear and very fine.' Princess Beatrice 
also thought it ' very fine ' . . . I think it had a great 
success, and you can be well pleased. 

" It struck me yesterday that I might sing the air at 
some of the orchestral concerts in which I take part 
this Autumn at Bradford, and Manchester with the 
Halle Orchestra. If you have no objection, you could 
have the Scena begin with the orchestra alone, at the 
Allegro con ira. In that case would you have the 
parts copied so that I might have them early in 
November . . . ? " 

This is only one of many kindnesses which this 
great songstress has conferred upon me. 

Alberto Randegger was another musician with whom 
I established very friendly relations, and whose name 
comes back to me in connection with the lively practical 
interest he evinced in some of my compositions. He met 
me very frequently at the Scholarship Examinations 
of the Royal College of Music, where I was always 
struck by his engaging manner, his unfailing fairness, 
his patient desire always to do the right thing. He 
was very kind to me whilst I was engaged upon 
my choral work " Callirhoe," which was performed 
at the Birmingham Festival in 1888. It is a secular 
cantata of some length, and deals with a very 
dramatic subject. I was naturally anxious to make 
it a success, and Randegger took much interest in 
its progress. One night I carried my manuscript 
up to his house, when we went all through it. 



30 4 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

His experience in works of this kind was very wide, 
and he seemed at once able to say what would be 
effective and what would not, while also he had a happy 
way of laying bare the weak points in a moment. 
Unlike some critics, however, he was not at a loss 
to suggest a remedy. Yet I must confess that in 
looking through " Callirhoe " he rather depressed me 
by condemning out and out a very important Scena 
for soprano, saying, " No, it won't do ; it is dull, 
and altogether lacking in inspiration." As a matter 
of fact, I had rather suspected this myself. I had 
worked hard at it, but the nuances that I sought 
to impart were elusive ; my imagination would not 
soar, and momentarily the thing had got completely 
out of hand. However, I took his advice, and 
later on the new version that I was able to 
construct entirely pleased him, except one important 
note in the opening phrase. He there and then 
suggested another, which at once I adopted. After- 
wards he would frequently chaff me in his inimitable 
way about " his note." 

It was largely owing to his disinterested advocacy 
that my orchestral overture " Morte d'Arthur" found a 
place in the programme of the Norwich Festival of 
1905. This was the last Festival at Norwich that 
Randegger conducted. 

He often made laughing reference to seeing me 
at Oban, when our converging paths met at that 
clearing-house of the Highlands: he was bound for 
StrathpefTer ; I, with my family, servants, and a mass 
of impedimenta, was on my way to our fishing on 
the Spean. The amount of luggage that we had got, 
and which had to be transferred from the rail to the 
steamer, simply appalled Randegger, but he tound 
room for amusement in noticing that the household 
pets had not been overlooked. There they were, a 



AN ECHO OF THE FESTIVALS 305 

cat, a goldfinch, and a Belgian hare a pretty trio, but 
not quite so embarrassing as the group that once 
nearly nonplussed a ferryman whose difficulty with his 
charges is a classic memory of school-boy days. 

I was able to include Randegger in the Abbey Choir 
for King Edward's Coronation, but the postponement 
of the ceremony made it impossible for him to attend 
at the later date. He was in Italy; yet his thoughts 
were in London, with the historic scene to be enacted 
there, for on the night before the event he sent me a 
telegram conveying his best wishes for a successful 
conclusion. He had elected to sing alto, and would 
indeed have been an acquisition to the choir.* At the 
rehearsals he had rather astonished his neighbours by 
the quantity, if not the quality, of his voice. When he 
died, I felt that in him I had lost a winning companion 
and congenial friend. 

Randegger conducted the Norwich Festivals from 
1881, and directed nine of these famous music-makings. 
As stated above, he conducted his last Festival at 
Norwich in 1905, when occasion was suitably taken 
for presenting him with tangible evidences of 
esteem by those who had been associated with him 
in the artistic success that had unfailingly attended 
his direction of these triennial meetings. These gifts 
took the shape of some very handsome pieces of plate, 
Mr. Ben Davies being a felicitous spokesman on behalf 
of the principal artists in handing to the popular 
conductor a solid silver loving-cup that, suitably 
engraved, and bearing the names of the donors, 
formed their testimonial. 

Randegger's was a name to conjure with in musico- 
artistic circles. He seemed to know all the celebrities 
in the musical profession at home and abroad he had, 

* It must be added that he attended and was indeed an acquisition 
to the choir for the Coronation of King George and Qu,een Mary. 

X 



306 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

been intimate with Costa, and enjoyed the friendship 
of Liszt. Had he been with me at Cambridge in 
the summer of 1893, I might perchance have dated 
my acquaintance with Saint-Saens some years earlier 
than the Coronation of King Edward, for the great 
Frenchman addressed Randegger as "amico e collega." 
I rejoice at having been present for the jubilee of the 
University Musical Society, an occasion that gained 
international distinction by the conferment upon 
Saint-Saens, Tchaikovsky, Boito, and others, of 
the honorary Degree of Doctor of Music. I had 
the pleasure of meeting Tchaikovsky at a function in 
connection with the event, and was charmed with his 
modest, quiet, little manner (" little " seems just to 
describe my meaning, and does not convey small in 
dignity or significance). It was difficult to associate 
this quiet personality, this lined face and thin hair, 
with the man who produced such a work as the 
" 1812." 

Tchaikovsky had journeyed to Cambridge with a 
party, the members of which were attending by 
invitation to be made recipients of honorary degrees. 
Grieg was to have been present, but was prevented 
by illness. In Saint-Saens's book, " Portraits and 
Souvenirs," there is a sparkling description of the 
proceedings, and reference is made to the " King of 
Bohonager," * arrayed like the cohorts of the Assyrians, 
in purple and gold. He draws a delightful picture 
of the students in the circular gallery ; of the 
attiring of the aspirants, before the ceremony, in their 
ample silken robes, and the donning of the mortar- 
boards, tasseled and fringed with gold ; of the 
procession through the town in a tropical heat 

* I must confess to being unable to trace this potentate, nor do I 
remember having seen him at the ceremony. He is probably a figment 
of the versatile Doctor's imagination. 



TCHAIKOVSKY AT CAMBRIDGE 307 

indeed it is plain that the whole adventure charmed 
and delighted him. So the volatile French artist. 
Of Tchaikovsky we learn that only a short time 
before his investiture he was writing to his nephew, 
DavidofT : "Is it not strange that of my own 
free will I have elected to undergo this torture ? " 
Yet if torture it was, he disclosed none of his feelings 
to those who met him at Cambridge on that lovely 
day in June, and certainly he revealed to me only 
an engaging courtesy. It is sad to reflect that but a 
short time afterwards this great artist, whose master- 
works explore so many phases of emotional expression, 
was fated to die, at the comparatively early age of 
fifty-three. 

Grieg was made a Mus. Doc. of Cambridge, 
honoris causa, in May, 1894. In an earlier chapter I 
have made reference to his zeal as a conductor. Some 
of his Scots ancestry was perhaps responsible for 
the snap and go so frequently revealed in himself 
and in his compositions ; yet he had another side, 
as will be remembered by those who were at the 
Philharmonic Concert in St. James's Hall in May, 1888. 
He conducted the orchestra in his two " Elegiac 
Melodies," and played his Pianoforte Concerto, but 
surely the rare charm of that evening was the singing 
by Madame Grieg of some of her husband's songs 
to his accompaniment songs which led several of the 
critics to proclaim a new range of emotion found in 
subtlety of rhythm and curiously arresting turns of 
expression. 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 



The Muniment Room Early Records concerning the Organ 
A Quaint Epitaph Thomas Dallam's Journey to Constantinople 
Presentation Organ by Queen Elizabeth to the Sultan of 
Turkey Portrait Gallery of Abbey Organists Purcell Score : 
Autograph Corrections The Abbey Bells : an Historic " Ringer's 
Bill." 



As organist of the Abbey for so many years, I may 
be forgiven for devoting some pages to a consideration 
of the organ and a review of its history, along with 
an account of my predecessors in the organ-loft. 

Let me ask my reader to accompany me in thought 
into the ancient building at Westminster. It is a 
November afternoon, dark and gloomy. Evensong is 
over. The white-robed choristers have passed in 
procession down the Nave to their vestry ; the splendid 
organ has rolled its grand echoes through the vaulted 
roof; and the congregation has departed. The lights 
are extinguished, and the Abbey is closed. By some 
chance we are left in the impressive Church with, for 
company, only the solitary watchman, who, regularly 
perambulating the Aisles, passes us on his way to the 
distant Chapel of Henry VII., where he has to register 
his visit on a recording clock as evidence that he is 
.alert and on duty. We pause in front of the altar, 
between the Transepts, under what is termed the 
Lantern, and in the shadow can dimly trace the 
soaring arches, but away in Poets' Corner all is 
darkness and silence. Suddenly a glimmering light 
.appears high up in the distance, over Handel's 



THE MUNIMENT ROOM 309 

monument, and we hear footsteps, with a jingling of 
keys and the opening and shutting of invisible doors. 
Holding: our breath, we listen. After a minute or 

o 

two the light is stationary, and all is quiet, save 
for an occasional gentle rustling, as of parchments. 
Perturbed, we seek the watchman, who quickly dispels 
our fears of a ghostly visitant. " It's only Mr. Scott, 
in the Muniment Room," is the reassuring explanation. 
Perhaps my readers may like to hear something about 
this repository and its archives. 

Dr. Scott, the late accomplished head of the 
Manuscript Department of the British Museum, 
catalogued and arranged for the Dean and Chapter 
the contents of the Abbey Muniment Room. During 
some months, by permission of the Dean, I was 
allowed to spend many happy hours in that quiet 
retreat, searching primarily for Purcell lore, but with 
my eyes keenly open in other directions, for a great 
many small but interesting bits of information had 
been hidden away among the documentary material 
assembled there. 

The Muniment Room was built by Henry III. in 
about 1250, and occupies the entire western side of 
the South Transept between the Cloisters and the 
Triforium. In about 1380 the first bay was separated 
by a partition from the two remaining bays. It 
is approached by a turret stair from the Cloisters, 
which leads to a beautiful ante-room only lately 
restored. For probably three hundred years this ante- 
room had been walled up and altogether hidden from 
view to visitors in the Transept. It was also divided 
into two stories by a floor of wood, and at some 
time in its history had been used as a dwelling. Who 
knows perhaps the Jacobite Dean Atterbury had 
used it as a secret chamber. Fortunately all this has 
been removed, and the beautiful proportions of the 



310 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

arches, the lancet windows, and Purbeck marble 
columns thrown open to view. Divided from the 
ante-room by a curious old wooden screen over 
which in plaster is still to be seen the White Hart, 
the badge of Richard II. is the Muniment Room, 
where, stored in the oaken presses dating at 
least from the time of Richard II., are preserved the 
precious records of the Abbey. My interest in these 
was principally musical. But even had it been other- 
wise, I was not qualified to express an opinion upon 
the value of the documents with which Dr. Scott 
was concerned. Yet I cannot refrain from saying 
that here are to be found the Prior's Rent Book 
(containing entries of payments made by Caxton 
when he set up his printing press in the Abbey 
Precincts), John of Gaunt's letters to the Abbot of 
Westminster, many autographs of Bradshaw the 
Regicide, the autographs of Cecil and Burleigh, the 
founders of the noble House of Salisbury, and 
thousands of other objects of supreme national and 
antiquarian interest. Side by side with these are 
many musical items which might fairly claim attention, 
although in many cases they are useful only as 
showing the condition of music at the Abbey over a long 
period of years. There is, however, enough musical 
material of general interest to warrant some extracts. 

Should I be asked "Where would you begin?" I 
should at once make answer, as an organist, " With 
the organ " ; although it is not my present purpose 
to attempt more than a summary of the information 
available, leaving a complete account for treatment 
elsewhere. 

At the outset be it said that I have not been able to 
examine the material quite so far back as undoubtedly 
is possible, yet probably I have fallen short by only a 
few years. Also, while exercising due care, I cannot 



EARLY ORGAN RECORDS 311 

hope to have cleared the ground so thoroughly that 
further research will not reveal valuable information as 
the reward of later inquirers. 

My investigation was made in 1905, when my friend 
Dr. Scott was compiling his invaluable catalogue, a work 
that he conducted with great regularity and precision. 
Unfortunately it has now for a time been suspended by 
the lamented death of him whose qualities of patience 
and discernment, along with a profound scholarship, 
so admirably fitted him for the task that he had 
undertaken. 

Appended is an abstract of the details that I was 
able to discover, arranged chronologically : 

ORGANS. 

Accompt of the Sacrist of Westminster Abbey for repair of 

the Organs in the Choir, 1374-75. 
Payment by the Sacrist of Westminster Abbey for Organs 

belonging to the Duke of Exeter, 1422-23. 
Payment by the Sacrist of Westminster to Frater Y. Gedney 

for mending the smaller pair, 1422-23. 
Payment for mending the bellows of the great Organs in 

Westminster Abbey, 1424-25. 
Payment for mending the smaller Organs in the Choir, 

Westminster Abbey, 1432-33. 
Payment by the Sacrist of Westminster Abbey for mending 

Organs in the Choir, 1434-35. 
Payment by the Sacrist of Westminster Abbey for one pair 

of organs newly made for the Choir, 1440-44. 
Payment by the Sacrist of Westminster Abbey for mending 

the Organs, 1459-60. 
Payment by the Sacrist of Westminster Abbey for mending 

the Organs, 1465-78. 
Organmaker (William). Payment to, for mending the Organs 

in Westminster Abbey, 1465-66. 



3 i2 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Then we come to the year of the accession of Queen 
Elizabeth in 1558, when the following payments were 
made to one "John Howe, Organ Maker": 

Item. Payed for 2 skins of leather for to leather the belows 

of the grate woden Organs and leathering the Sondboard. 
Item. Payed for latten* wyre for to make strings for the 

grate bass and ten principalls. 

Item. For sowder to sowder small pipes which were broken. 
Item. For ye fee for the Tuninge of the Organs that stands in 

Henry the Vllth Chappell. 
Item. For ye fee for Tuninge the Organs that standes over 

the Quyre for a quarter ended now at Mychelmas 

by me John Howe 

Organ Maker. 

The above are interesting as showing that at one 
time there was an organ in Henry VII. 's Chapel as 
well as one in the Choir. The former had no doubt 
been used for the celebration of the Mass during the 
reign of Queen Mary. Under Elizabeth it was not 
permitted to remain there very long, for I came across 
another bill to the same John Howe, in which 
occurs : 

Item. To the said John Howe for takying down the Organes 
in Kyne Henry the Vllth Chappell, mendyng the same 
and settyng up the same in the Quyre and mendyng the 
other Organes. 

In 1603 there were payments to Edward Hooper for 
" mendyng of bellows and organs with tunings of 
them," and for " 4 pairs of hingells " (hinges) for the 
bellows to " Mr. Wyat " ; also for a "shooting plate 
for the organ-loft doore." Hooper was the organist 
at that time, and, like many old practitioners in 
those days (e.g., Father Smith) he was both a player 
of organs and a builder of them. 

* " Latten " was a metal closely resembling brass. 



A SHARP MAN OF BUSINESS 313 

In 1605 another organ-builder, George Pendleton, 
comes upon the scene. His bill includes items : 

For 4 pounds of tynne to foote the greate bass pipe. 
To a porter to help carry the pipe to my house and back 
again after it was new footed. 

In this same year occurs another organ bill of great 
interest. It runs thus : 

20 die Martii 1605. 

Item. To Pendleton for removing and tuning the instrument 
against the funerall of the King's daughter, 105. 

This was no doubt the child of James I., who lies 
buried in the North Aisle of Henry VII. 's Chapel. 
The organ was probably not very large, and was 
removed to be near the scene of interment. The 
whole bill is very interesting, containing as it does 
such items as payments for " hanging the Chappell 
with blacke." 

In 1606 there seems to be evidence of the building 
of a new organ, as there is a payment to John Wright 
for taking down the " ould Orgayne loft." 

Among the most interesting of my finds was an 
organ-maker's account for mending the organ. It is 
dated 1625, an d the organ-maker referred to is John 
Burrard. The bill is endorsed by Orlando Gibbons r 
the celebrated Abbey organist. It is reproduced in 
facsimile at page 214. This, so far as I know, is the 
only autograph letter of Orlando Gibbons in existence. 
It reveals him as a sharp man of business. He had 
" already cut him off ten shillings " and the bill only 
amounted to twenty shillings and eightpence ! It is 
a point of some interest to note that this letter was 
written at Midsummer, 1625, an< ^ within a few months 
the writer was dead. As already stated (see page 213), 
he went to Canterbury to direct the music at the 
marriage of Charles I., and died there of apoplexy. 



314 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Round about this period the name of Dallam figures 
prominently in the Abbey records, covering altogether 
a term of about a hundred years. There is little 
doubt that the organ referred to in the above account 
was a Dallam instrument, and the one played upon by 
Gibbons, Blow, Purcell, and Croft. Dart describes it 
as a " stately organ, gilt." It stood under the second 
arch west of the Transept, on the north side of the 
Church. (In order not to break the narrative of the 
organ, some further details concerning Dallam are just 
now postponed.) 

During the organistship of Christopher Gibbons, son 
of his more famous father, the accounts are concerned 
with the following payments in respect of organs, &c. : 

To Christopher Gibbon (sic) in discharge of his 
Bill for Tuneing the Organs xxs. and to George 
Dalham for the same service 55. in all this year Hi. vs. 

To James ffuller, Blower of the Organs ... ... \ili. 

To John Hill, for playing on the cornet in the 

Church ... ... ... ... ... ... ii/t. vs. 

To Henry Purcell for Bookes of services for the 

choristers ... ... ... ... ... ... Hi. 

From this it is apparent that the organist also tuned 
the instrument, and that there was a cornet-player. 
The Henry Purcell above-mentioned was the copyist 
of the Abbey and father of the great composer. 

In 1694 an Agreement was entered into between the 
Dean and Chapter of Westminster and Bernard Smith 
(Father Smith) by which, for the " sume of 200," 
to be made in four payments of s> the latter 
covenanted to : 

". . . make the present organ belonginge to 
the Deane and Chapter of Westm r exceptinge the 
pipes & case & add thereto a double sett of keys 
& 4 new stops, vizt. one principall of mettle, one 



FATHER SMITH 315 

stop diapason of wood, one nason of wood,* and 
one fifteenth of mettle w ch are to be added to the 
present organ by enlarginge the case backwards." 

This document was signed " BER: SMITH," the 
witnesses to the Agreement being Steph. Crespion, 
Henry Purcell, and John Needham. Needham was 
the Receiver-General. 

A bill presented in " Octo b y e : 15," 1700, shows that 
^ John Hisenbuttell had performed various joiner's work 
*in connection with the organ, to the amount of 39 igs. 
It bears the endorsement : 

" For Mr. Needham the Joyners bill for ye 
Organ Shashes settled by Sr Christoph r Wren 
ye 9 th of January 170 39. 19. o." 

The document is described as " The Bill for ye 
Sashes Frames Waites Lines and pulleys an ye best 
Crown Glass to ye Organe In ye Collegiat Church of 
St. Peters, Westminster. Done by Mr. Hisenbuttell." 

In 1718 there is a ''Proposal of Chr pher Shrider, 
Organmaker," in which, after reciting certain defects 
in the organ, and making reference to the sum (405. 
per annum) allotted for keeping it in tune, he says : 

11 Therefore I ... do hereby propose: 
That if ye Dean and Chapter will please to allow 
ten pound for mending and cleaning, and for 
putting ye said Organ into good order ; that being 
but a small sum for ye Repairs there wanting, 
and then to fix a salary of five pound p. annum, 
I will oblige my self to keep ye Organ in order 
without any further charge to ye Dean and Chapter 
for ten years, and for as many years afterwards as 
it is possible for any workmen to keep it in order ; 
the greatest part of ye Organ being very old." 

* This stopped diapason and nason are still contained in the Abbey 
organ (see page 159). 



316 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Dr. Croft endorses this: " I believe this to be true 
and the proposalls very reasonable." 

In 1727, in the British Journal of February loth, there 
is a reference to the Coronation of George II. : 

" The fine organ made. by Mr. Schrieder, which 
was set up in Westminster Abbey, and used on the 
day of the Coronation, has been presented to the 
said Abbey by his Majesty. It is accounted one 
of the best performances of that maker." 

This instrument was placed on the screen. It may 
here be mentioned that Handel's Coronation anthems 
were composed for George II. 

Abraham Jordan, the inventor of the swell, probably 
adapted this invaluable accessory to Schrider's instru- 
ment. A memorandum formerly in the possession ot 
the Precentor records that : 

"The new organ built by Mr. Shrider and 
Mr. Jordan was opened on the ist of August, 
1730, by Mr. Robinson." 

Mr. Robinson was the organist of the Abbey, and the 
composer of the well-known double-chant in E flat. 

This Schrider organ contained only four stops on 
the Swell (to fiddle G). There was no Pedal organ. 

In T. Webb's " A new select collection of Epitaphs" 
(vol. ii., 1775) there is to be found the following 
amusing inscription to Christopher Schrider : 

Here rests the musical Kit Shrider, 
Who Organs built when he did bide here : 
With nicest ear he tun'd 'em up ; 
But Death has put the cruel Stop : 
Tho' Breath to others he convey 'd, 
Breathless, alas ! himself is lay'd. 
May he, who us such Keys has giv'n, 
Meet with St. Peter's Keys of Heav'n ! 
His Cornet, Twelfth, and Diapason, 
Could not with Air supply his Weasand : 
Bass, Tenor, Treble, Unison, 
The Loss of Tuneful Kit bemoan. 



EARLY PEDAL ORGAN 317 

Thirteen unison Pedal pipes (GG to Gamut G) 
were added to the Schrider organ by the celebrated 
John Avery, of whose work as an organ-builder we first 
hear in 1775. Avery's Pedal pipes were of such large 
dimensions that although only unisons with the diapason, 
they produced the effect of a double diapason. Open, 
and of wood, they were not coupled with the manuals. 
Probably the Abbey organ was one of the earliest 
^instruments in England to have an independent Pedal 
organ. Later on we learn that Messrs. Elliott & Hill 
added "pipes of double size, speaking down to GGG 
(2ii-ft- in length)." 

The 1730 organ-case was replaced a century later by 
a Gothic case, but the case of the Choir organ was 
permitted to remain.* 

Scnrider supplied another organ for the Abbey in 
addition to that already referred to. From a news 
sheet called the Old Whig we learn, under date 
December I5th, 1737, that : 

" They are putting up a gallery for King Henry 
the Seventh's Chapel, where an organ is to be 
built by Mr. Schrider, his Majesty's Organ-Builder, 
as fast as possible, for a performance of a solemn 
Anthem the night her Majesty is interred." 

The occasion was the burial of Queen Caroline, and 
the anthem Handel's. 

Extensive structural alterations were made to the 
Choir of the Abbey in 1847-48, and the erection of 
a new organ, to contain some of the old stops, was 
entrusted to Messrs. Hill. It stood on the screen, and 
was contained in three cases, so disposed that no 
obstruction was offered to an uninterrupted view of 

* As already noted (see page 126) it was unfortunately lost to the 
Abbey when, in 1847, it w ^s removed to Shoreham Church, Kent, where 
it can still be seen. 



318 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

the Church from one end to the other. While the 
Great and Swell organs occupied the north and south 
sides respectively, the Choir organ was placed over the 
arch of the screen. The Pedal organ contained but 
two stops a great open diapason 32-ft., and an 
open diapason i6-ft., the pipes of which were laid 
transversely along the organ-loft a position they 
occupy to-day. 

The organ received an entire reconstruction at the 
hands of Messrs. Hill in 1884, an d on May 24th of 
that year (Queen Victoria's birthday) we re-opened the 
instrument. I have referred elsewhere (page 126) to 
the electric or "Celestial" organ, the gift of Mr. A. D. 
Clarke, and to the two handsome cases designed by 
the late J. L. Pearson (page 157). 

Before proceeding to a review of the organists, I 
give here the account of Thomas Dallam foreshadowed 
on page 314. As well as building the Abbey organ, 
he erected the organ in King's College, Cambridge, 
and was the builder of an extraordinary instrument 
the gift of which by Queen Elizabeth to the Sultan of 
Turkey forms the subject of a remarkable narrative 
left by Dallam of his journey to Constantinople in 
charge of the organ and his adventures which were 
many by the way. The record is published by the 
Hakluyt Society, and from some notes in the book we 
learn that although the gift was accredited to the 
Queen (there were strong political reasons at that date 
for placating Turkey), the cost was probably borne by 
the Levant Company of merchants. 

Dallam's journey was made in 1559. We read in 
State papers of January 3ist of that year that " a great 
and curious present is going to the Grand Turk, which 
will scandalise other nations, especially the Germans." 

The organ was automatic, operating by clockwork 
as well as being playable by a keyboard. Thus we 



A PORTRAIT GALLERY 319 

read of the first recital before the Sultan : " Firste the 
clocke strouke 22, then the chime of 16 bells went 
of, and played a songe of 4 partes." Then follows a 
description of " personages . . . houldinge two silver 
trumpets in their handes," who sounded a " tantarra." 
" Then the muzike went of, and the orgon played 
a song of 5 partes twyse over. In the tope of the 
on . . . did stande a holly bushe full of blacke 
birdis and thrushis, which at the end of the musick 
did singe and shake theire wynges." 

The Sultan was evidently a man who " wanted to 
know." Observing the keyboard, during the automatic 
recital, he asked " Whye those keaes did move when 
the orgon wente and nothing did tuche them ? " 

Dallam reveals himself a courtier. When he was 
desired to play upon the organ, he at first demurred, 
" because the Grand Sinyor [Sultan] satt so neare the 
place wheare I should playe that I could not com at it, 
but I muste needes turn my backe towardes him and 
touche his kne with my britchis." 

It is gratifying to learn that this difficulty was 
surmounted by the magnanimity of the Sultan, so 
that Dallam was able to demonstrate the musical 
possibilities of the instrument that he had constructed. 

Turning now to an account of the Abbey organists : 
In the Abbey Deanery are to be seen the portraits of 
many of the Dean's predecessors ; in the headmaster's 
house in Westminster School there is preserved an 
historic array of portraits of headmasters of that 
famous seat of learning. It had been my ambition to 
collect authentic portraits of the Abbey organists, with 
a view to bequeathing them, or reproductions of them, 
as an heirloom in the official house of the organist. 
I set out to realise my idea in 1904, at the time when 
the Worshipful Company of Musicians projected their 
Exhibition at Fishmongers' Hall. 



320 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

But I was confronted with a few difficult gaps, one 
being that of Thomas Greatorex, Turle's immediate 
predecessor. By a fortunate chance his son, the 
Rev. Edward Greatorex (sometime Precentor of 
Durham and for many years rector of Croxdale), called 
upon me, and accepted an invitation to dinner. I told 
him of my idea, when at once he said that he could fill 
the vacant place, remarking incidentally that few could 
claim, as he, that their father was born in the reign 
of George II. a monarch reminiscent of the Dettingen 
Te Deum and the Seven Years' War. It was also very 
interesting to learn that Thomas Greatorex had known 
the Young Pretender, whose acquaintance he had 
formed in Italy. The Prince, who was very musical, 
bequeathed to him some of his music-books. 

It was a remarkable coincidence that my wife (her 
name was Flora, which momentarily added tothe interest), 
seated at the table with us, was a great-great-gnnd- 
daughter of the Flora Macdonald* whose adventures 
with the Prince in the '45 have been woven into many 
a romance. Surely here was an incident worthy of 
being chronicled, the meeting together in the Cloisters 
of Westminster of a man whose father was intimate 
with Prince Charlie, and a lady who was the descendant 
of the girl to whom probably the Stuart owed his life. 

Another gap was the portrait of Ebenezer Williams, 
(1814-1819). In his case I was so fortunate as to 
discover that a daughter was still living, and willing 
to help me in my purpose. Although unable to give 
me an authentic portrait of her father, she undertook 
herself to produce a picture of him from materials 
in her possession, and from her recollection. 

* Boswell and Dr. Johnson, in " The Tour to the Hebrides " (1773) stayed 
with the Macdonalds, in Skye. Boswell describes Flora Macdonald 
as "a little woman, of a genteel appearance and uncommonly mild 
and well-bred," and adds : " to see Dr. Samuel Johnson . . . salute 
Miss Flora Macdonald . . . was a striking sight." 



(Organists of iDestminster 



HOWE, JOHN 
\VHITT, MASTER 
TAYLOR, JOHN 
WHYTT, ROBERT 
LEEVE, HENRY 
HOOPER, EDMI 
PARSONS, JOHN 
*i GIBBONS, ORI 
DAY, THOMAS 
PORTMAN, R 
! WARWICK, 1 

3 GlBBONS, Cl 

1-5 RYAN, ALB 
?. BLOW, JOHN 

4 PURCKLL, HENRY 
BLOW, JOHN 

6 CROFT, WILLIAM 

5 ROBINSON, JOHN 
g COOKE, BENJAMIN 

7 ARNOLD, SAMUEL 

8 COOKE, ROBERT 

12 WILLIAMS, Gi 
10 GREATOREX, 1 

13 TURLE, JAMES 



;: The numbers refer to the; Portraits on the next page. 

I Recent investigations make it doubtful if Thomas Warwick 
(who is known to have been organist of the Chapel Royal, 1625-41) 
was ever officially appointed organist of the Abbey. 





1549 


;TEK ... 


1560 


N 


1562 


iERT ... 


157 1 574 


'ML'ND 


1606 1621 


H N 


1621 1623 


U.ANDO 


1623 1625 


S 


1625 1632 


ICHARD 


1633 1648 


'HOMAS 


... 


IRISTOPIIER ... 


1660 1665 


iRTUS 


1666 1669 




1669 1680 


I-:NRY ... 


1680 - 1695 




16951708 


LIAM ... 


1708 1727 


OHN 


1727 1762 


IAMIN ... 


17621793 


VIUEL ... 


1793 1802 


:RT 


1802 1814 


IEORGE EBENE/EK ... 


1814 1819 


THOMAS 


1819 1831 


s 


1831 1882 


N FREDERICK 


1882 1918 


SYDNEY HUGO 


1919 



CHIEF MUSICIANS OF THE ABBEY 321 

A third gap was occasioned by the perfect blank that 
I drew in all my inquiries concerning a portrait of 
Robert Cooke. The difficulty seemed insurmountable, 
till my friend Mr. E. W. Hennell who possessed a 
rare collection and a unique knowledge of musical 
curios and interesting things removed my difficulty 
by presenting me with a portrait of the musician that 
is, I believe, the only one extant. He also gave 
me a photograph of an object in his possession whose 
existence is probably almost unknown. It represents a 
cast of Chopin's hand, taken after death, and formerly 
the property of the Countess Castelvecchio, at Florence. 
But this is to digress. 

My collection of portraits is dated as early as 
Orlando Gibbons (1625). His portrait is preserved 
in the Music School at Oxford, but this is not a 
good picture. I have therefore availed myself of the 
splendid black marble replica of the memorial bust 
in Canterbury Cathedral, which, as already stated 
(page 213), was furnished to the Abbey by the 
munificence of Mr. C. T. D. Crews on the occasion 
of the Gibbons celebration. The names of a few 
predecessors of Gibbons can be traced, but no portraits 
are known to exist, which also is the case with the 
organists during the Commonwealth. 

I am glad to have been able to render my series 
so complete as to represent pictorially twelve of my 
predecessors, thus, with the portrait of Mr. Nicholson, 
and that of myself, furnishing a series of fourteen 
organists of Westminster. 

To consider the chief musicians chronologically : 
Those who preceded Gibbons (recorded by Anthony 
a Wood) seem to have been John Howe, Master 
Whitt, and John Taylor, who held office in the order 
given between the years 1549-70. To John Taylor 
succeeded Robert Whytt (1570-74), of whom, says 



322 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Thomas Morley, he was equal in rank to Orlando di 
Lassus. So far as can be learned from the records, 
Edmund Hooper who was master of the choristers 
in 1588 and organist in 1606 was the first chief 
musician whose appointment was officially regularised. 
There is however in the Muniment Room a Patent, 
dated December ijth, 1616, which recites that in 
" consideracion of the good and ffaittefull service of our 
welbeloved Edmunde Hooper heretofore of longe tyme 
in the said Churche " he be appointed to the " rometh 
and place of the Organist within the said Collegiate 
Churche." The phrase "of longe tyme" would seem 
to show that Hooper had already officiated as organist 
for a period probably extending over some years. The 
accommodation that he was to enjoy comprised a 
lodging in the " Litle Almery . . . contayninge fower 
romeths, viz 1 , a hall, and a kytchen belowe upon the 
grounde and two romeths or chambers directly over 
the same, together with a litle yearde." There is also 
a record that Hooper was buried in the Cloisters. 

Following Hooper came John Parsons, whose 
Patent is also in the Muniment Room, and is dated 
1621. It differs from that of Hooper by adding to his 
title of organist the words, " and Maister of the 
Choristers." Further on, in referring to emoluments, 
the document, with an eye to the boys, says : " Also 
one bushell and a half of good and seasonable wheate 
everie weake weekelie towardes the fynding of the said 
Choristers bread and beere." Parsons died in 1623, 
and also was interred in the Cloisters. 

An outstanding figure in the history of English 
music succeeded Parsons, viz., Orlando Gibbons. I 
have already in these pages made copious reference to 
this master-musician, whose short life added so many 
gems to the treasury of our Art. He reigned at the 
Abbey for only two years, 1623-25. 



DR. JOHN BLOW 323 

We have very little information concerning the 
organists during the troublous times of the Rebellion 
and under the Protector. The names of Thomas Day, 
Richard Portman, and (?) Thomas Warwick are given 
as having succeeded in the order named. 

Then comes Dr. Christopher Gibbons the son 
of Orlando Gibbons, who was appointed in 1660. 
Previously we hear of him as one of the Children 
of the Chapel Royal, and as organist of Winchester 
Cathedral; and he seems to have joined the Royalist 
Army in 1644. Like his father before him he com- 
bined the organistships of the Chapel Royal and 
Westminster. Created Mus. Doc. Oxon. per Literas 
Regias in 1664, the Dean and Chapter made him 
a present of five pounds. Anthony a Wood dismisses 
him somewhat cavalierly, saying that he " would 
often sleep at Morning Prayer, when he was to 
play the organ." He died in 1676, and was buried 
in the Cloisters. 

In 1666 Albertus Bryan became organist of the 
Abbey. Appointed organist of St. Paul's Cathedral at 
the early age of seventeen, he was deprived of his post 
during the Interregnum, to resume it at the Restoration. 
After the Great Fire (in 1666), when St. Paul's was 
destroyed, he went to Westminster. He too was buried 
in the Cloisters. 

Dr. John Blow one of the greatest of the Abbey 
organists was appointed in 1669. A pupil of Kingston 
organist to (Cromwell) and Dr. Christopher Gibbons, 
he established a great reputation as organist, executant, 
and composer. In 1680 he resigned his Abbey appoint- 
ment in favour of his pupil, Henry Purcell, resuming 
the position at Purcell's death in 1695. He died in 
1708, and was buried in the North Aisle of the Choir. 
His memorial bears an open book, with the " Gloria 
Patri " from one of his Services. 



324 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Henry Purcell (appointed 1680, died 1695) has been 
treated at considerable length in a previous chapter, so 
that here I need make only brief reference to his 
distinguished career. The portrait given on another 
page is reproduced from the splendid engraving which 
he caused to be issued in 1683 with his noble set of 
Sonatas for strings and harpsichord. I always regard 
these Sonatas as among the most remarkable evidences 
of Purcell's genius. They have hitherto suffered 
unmerited neglect from being practically inaccessible, 
the Purcell Society whose invaluable labours I am far 
from depreciating having issued a reprint only in 
large imperial folio size. A smaller and cheaper 
edition is urgently wanted, and separate parts for each 
instrument should be published. 

I am fortunate in having in my charge a copy of 
these Sonatas which I think must certainly have 
belonged to the composer himself. There are hundreds 
of additions to the score in the way of figures and 
accidentals ; also, in one or two instances, most valuable 
directions regarding tempi are inserted. The late 
Sir Hubert Parry agreed with me that there was 
strong probability of this copy having remained in 
Purcell's possession, and being corrected by him. 

The examples opposite are from Sonatas Nos. VI. 
and VII. in this collection. They are in reduced 
facsimile, but are interesting as showing some of 
the numerous emendations referred to.* 

As already stated, Dr. Blow resumed the organist- 
ship in 1695, and was followed by his pupil, Dr. Croft, 
in 1708. Croft was one of the great men of the old 
Cathedral school, yet I suppose he is better known for 

~- ;; The word Adagio in bar 2 of the first example, and in bar i of the 
Canzona (second example) is not to be found in any other copy that I 
have come across, and presumably is in each case Purcell's own addition. 
The numerous accidentals which have been added will also not escape 
notice. 



PURCELL FACSIMILE 



325 



the extraordinary popularity of his fine tune " St. Anne," 
sung to the hymn " O God, our help in ages past." 
This hymn has been more frequently used during 
the past few years more especially on days of prayer 
and thanksgiving than any other sacred song in the 
English language. 

M* . fa) 




<C?f 



.^Clteltf'jtf't* i ^i u-f ? . 7 V^. . ,^ >& iW 

i&ieirtasS^igiiigs^ 



V 

i 



% 



m 



j- 



jTrr 



t|TtltTtTytltfrJ 

r_ :_TrT 



/ 



0--IH 



^Z^a 




Croft died in 1727, and was succeeded in the same 
year by John Robinson, of whom Dr. Boyce tells us 
he was " a most excellent performer on the organ." 
His double-chant in E flat still enjoys a wide esteem. 
He died in 1762, and was interred in the North Aisle, 
resting near Henry Purcell, and in the same grave with 
Croft. An important change was made in the position 
of the organ during Robinson's organistship, when it 
was removed from the North side of the Choir and 
erected on the Screen (see page 316). 



326 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Dr. Benjamin Cooke was appointed in 1762. He 
must have been something of a prodigy, for we read 
that he became deputy-organist to John Robinson 
at the early age of twelve years. Best known for his 
Service in G, he was also a prolific composer of glees, 
canons, &c. He died in 1793, and was buried in the 
West Cloister. 

Dr. Samuel Arnold succeeded Benjamin Cooke in 
1793. He was a musician of many parts, who, before 
choosing a Church career, had been composer to 
Covent Garden Theatre and proprietor of Marylebone 
Gardens, in which popular resort of that period he 
was also director of the music. Musico-editorial work 
largely occupied his attention, and he produced an 
"Arnold Edition" of Handel's works. Before being 
appointed to the Abbey he was organist of the Chapel 
Royal in 1753. At his death, in 1802, he was interred 
in the North Aisle, the musicians' campo santo. 

Robert Cooke, son of Benjamin Cooke, received the 
appointment after Arnold, in 1802. He left a very 
melodious and charmingly-written Evening Service. 
The original manuscript is still in the organ-loft, and 
bears the statement that it was written at Eastbourne 
(surely then a tiny fishing village). Cooke was tragically 
drowned in the Thames in the year 1814. 

George Ebenezer Williams followed Cooke in 1814, 
and was organist for the space of five years. Among 
his remains is a very innocent tutor for the pianoforte. 
He died in 1819, and was buried in the South Cloister. 

Thomas Greatorex, of whom I have already given 
some account (see page 320), was appointed in 1819. 
In speaking of him I seem to reach across the years, 
and to draw nigh to the period that held some of the 
giants in English music for in the room where I now 
write I had conversed with the son of him who was 
contemporary with Dr. Arne, and who might have 



TURLE'S ENORMOUS HAND 327 

spoken with those who had heard Blow and Purcell play 
in the great Church near by. Greatorex was a good 
mathematician and a member of the Royal Society, 
and in many other ways a remarkable man. He died in 
1831, and was buried in the West Cloister. 

James Turle, the last of my predecessors, succeeded 
to the appointment on the death of Greatorex (whose 
deputy he had been for twelve years), in 1831. At an 
early age he had come under the influence -as an organ 
student of John Jeremiah Goss,* and G. E. Williams, 
organist of the Abbey. Turle is known for his very 
melodious chant settings, while there is also a very fine 
hymn-tune of his, " Westminster," that is sung in 
all the Churches. He was the first editor of the 
" Westminster Chant Book," published by Messrs. 
Novello upwards of sixty years ago. The original 
preface of this collection states that "the object of it 
is to combine sufficient choice with order, and, by 
publication of the arrangement, to enable the congre- 
gation to join in the Psalms." 

Turle was an exemplar of the dignified and reverent 
traditions of the School in which he had grown up. 
He had cultivated a remarkable aptitude for playing from 
the figured bass, in which Goss his early companion 
and life-long friend also excelled. It is recorded 
of Turle that he had an enormous hand, and that 
one day at the German Embassy when he met the 
Chevalier Neukomm, who boasted that he could 
cover an octave and three notes Turle quietly 
laid his hand on the keyboard, saying, " One more, 
for luck." He easily took into his hand an octave 
and a-half. It is well known that he was an inveterate 
whist-player, so that his remark would fall naturally 
from him. 

* John Jeremiah Goss (1770-1817) was an uncle of Sir John Goss (1800- 

1880). 



328 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

Turle held the office of organist at the Abbey for 
fifty-one years, although, as I had been appointed 
" permanent deputy-organist" in 1875, he was relieved 
of all active responsibility during the last seven years 
of his life, which were in fact a period of retirement. He 
died in 1882, and was interred in Norwood Cemetery. 
A fine stained-glass window, erected in the North 
Aisle by one of his sons, forms an effective memorial 
of him near the scene of his ministry, a memorial into 
the design of which, along with his own portrait, 
is worked the portrait of his wife, who is thus 
remembered with him.* 

Necessarily the last portraits that I can present in 
this gallery of organists of Westminster are those of 
Mr. Sydney H. Nicholson and myself. A few pages 
later on I include a portrait which, it will be noted, 
bears the signature of Sir William Richmond, K.C.B., 
R.A., the distinguished artist, whose name is so well 
known in connection with the mural decoration of 
St. Paul's Cathedral. 

This portrait doubtless owes its existence to a little 
incident early in 1918. I had already had the pleasure of 
meeting Sir William at the Athenaeum, and at various 
public functions ; but our friendship arose out of a letter 
he wrote to me with reference to a speech of mine, made 
at a meeting of the Society of Arts, at which I was 
asked to take the chair, when a paper was read on 
"The British Pianoforte Industry." f 

In an animated discussion that followed, many 
prominent pianoforte makers took part, and were able 
to throw a very striking and disturbing light upon the 
methods employed by the Germans to capture the 

* For some of the information concerning the organs and organists given 
in these pages, I am indebted to an article by the late F. G. Edwards in 
the June, 1907, issue of the Musical Times. The material for that article 
was, however, largely furnished by myself. 

f By Dr, Reginald S. Clay, Principal of the Northern Polytechnic 
Institute. 



AN HISTORIC BELL 329 

trade and industry in the Colonies and elsewhere. I 
am afraid that I was rather outspoken in my remarks, 
as my sympathies were entirely with the English 
manufacturers. I was afterwards sorry for my heat, 
and apologised ; but the Press seized upon my speech, 
serving it up as an amusing paragraph. Sir William 
saw the report, and wrote to congratulate me. It was 
indeed gratifying to receive such a letter from him. 
This incident was the means of cementing our friend- 
ship ; and Sir William has lately done me the great 
honour of drawing the portrait referred to above. 

The sittings have been indeed pleasant interludes, 
gaining much in interest because the artist is himself 
devoted to music, spending much time in composing. 
We therefore met on common ground, at intervals 
finding relaxation in discussing questions on harmony 
with great zeal. 

It is an easy transition in tracing the evolution of 
the musical installation at the Abbey and its exponents 
to turn also to a consideration of the bells. All the 
bells six in number except the treble, or smallest, 
were cast at the old Whitechapel Foundry of Messrs. 
Mears & Stainbank.* The treble bell dates from the 
early I4th century; another bell from 1583. These 
two bells, therefore, must have rung to celebrate the 
destruction of the Spanish Armada. When recently it 
was determined to ring the bells at the signing of the 
Armistice, it was discovered that they were not in a 
condition to be used. In fact, they had not been rung 
in a peal since the Coronation of George V. In 
determining upon the necessary overhaul, it was 
decided to take the opportunity of adding two more 
bells, so completing the octave. This addition was 

* This firm commenced trading in 1570, and is believed to be the oldest 
in London. The records show that Messrs. Mears & Stainbank have been 
connected with the Abbey from the same date. 



330 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

rendered possible by the munificence of two benefactors 
who wish to remain anonymous. It is hoped that the 
work will be completed in time to ring in the Peace. 

My researches in the Muniment Room yielded some 
interesting material concerning the occasions when the 
bells were pealed, and I reproduce a " Ringer's Bill " 
for 1704, which makes quaint reference to some notable 
events and anniversaries : 

s. * 
The Ringers Bill begun in Feberary y d 6 

for ringing for queen Anns birthday 

ordered by my lord ... ... ... oo 06 08 

March 8 for ringing for queen Anns proclamation 

day ordered by my lord ... ... oo 06 08 

April 23 for ringing for queen Anns coronation 

day ordered by my lord ... ... oo 06 08 

May 29 For Ringing for King Charles restoring 

two the Crowan ... ... ... oo 06 08 

July 2 For Ringing for the great newes for the 

taking of Dounnaworth ordered by my 

lord ... ... ... ... ... oo 13 04 

Aug. 15 For Ringing for the great newes for the 

taking of Count tallord :!: ordered by my 

lord ... ... ... ... ... oo 06 08 

Aug. 14 For Ringing for the taking of gibraltow 

ordered by Dr. Onley ... ... ... oo 06 08 

Sept. 7 For Ringing for the thankes giving Day 

ordered by Dr. branollf ... ... oo 06 08 

Sept. 14 For Ringing for S r georg rouckj: taking 

the french fleett ordered by Dr. branoll oo 06 08 
Oct. 10 For Ringing for the taking of ulme 

ordered by Dr. branoll... ... ... oo 06 08 

For Ringing one the 5 of November 

ordered by my lord ... ... ... oo 06 08 

Nov. 14 For Ringing for queen Cathtorines 

birth day ordered by my lord ... ... oo 06 08 

Nov. 7 For Ringing on quean Elisibirth birth 

day ordered by my lord ... ... oo 06 08 

Nov. 28 For Ringing two dayes together 

Nov. 29 For the taking of Landow by my Lordes 

order ... ... ... ... ... oo 13 04 

05 06 08 

* Marshal Tallard, who was taken prisoner at Blenheim, 
f Dr. Brevall, a member of the Chapter. 

I This probably refers to Sir George Rooke's engagement with the 
French fleet off Malaga, in August, 1704. 



A RINGER'S BILL 331 

Dec. 14 For Ringing for my Lord Molburow* 

cuming home from flanders ... ... oo 06 08 

05 13 4 

Jan. y d 2, Received then the full contents of this bill for Ring 
1704 by me 

GILES JONES. 

Many of these names and events recall momentous 
historical occasions. They will readily be recognised, 
howsoever camouflaged in the quaint orthography of 
Master Giles Jones. 



* Duke of Marlborough. 



CHAPTER XXIX. 

Resume of the Work of a Cathedral Organist Duties and 
Emoluments of Lay-Vicars Choirboy Education The Arch- 
bishops' Report Status and Privileges of the Organist 
Organists' Benevolent League The Question of Musical 
Education : Provision for Students. 

So many years of my life having been spent in the 
ecclesiastical world, whose atmosphere has been of the 
very breath of my life, I may be forgiven for devoting a 
few pages to some consideration of the past and future 
state of English Cathedral and Church music. 

I have already shown that the work of a Cathedral 
organist is very strenuous. The daily training of the 
boys, the general rehearsals of the whole choir, the 
ever-present necessity for presenting an unruffled front 
to, and working smoothly with, the various authorities, 
combine to impose a great strain upon the organist's 
tact and temper. Few there are who, without personal 
experience, can realise the amount of energy, tenacity, 
and restraint called upon and the anxiety entailed, if 
success is to be achieved. Even if the organist has an 
official assistant (and I have already said that I myself 
worked for some twenty years after my appointment at 
the Abbey without such recognised assistance) to whom 
he can reasonably on occasion delegate his duties, he 
yet retains the responsibility for the services and 
practices, and for maintaining the music on every 
week-day and the numerous services on Sundays not 
to mention the Festival davs of the Church at the 

J 

highest possible standard. 



AN IMPOSING LIST 333 

This will be better appreciated if I give, by way 
of illustration, a few facts concerning the amount of 
music that has to be provided for the ordinary services 
in Westminster Abbey. In one year (1907, and I select 
this year merely as a representative twelve months) we 
sang upwards of four hundred different anthems, and a 
hundred and twenty-eight different services. I lay 
special stress on the word " different," the sense of 
which will be readily perceived. Some of this music 
was of course performed more than once in the course 
of the year, as over seven hundred choral services were 
given. In 1913 we sang four hundred and thirty-seven 
different anthems, and a hundred and forty different 
services. In addition to these items, there were 
innumerable hymns and chants which had to be 
rehearsed. 

To ensure an adequate performance of some of the 
anthems is no light task. The selection I have 
chronicled includes not only much that is worthy of the 
great English Cathedral School for the past four 
hundred years, but many beautiful and elaborate 
specimens of the best composers of all countries. 
Palestrina, Arcadelt, Dowland, Bering, Eccard, Jacob 
Handl, Marenzio, Orlando di Lasso, Vecchi, Vittoria, 
and, of course, Bach, Handel, Mendelssohn, &c. 
(I have not attempted to give a complete list), present 
an imposing array. 

Thus it will be seen that the work is very heavy, 
and must make great demands upon the time of the 
organist and upon his physical resources. 

I have referred to the necessity for working har- 
moniously with the various authorities in and out of 
the Chapter. In this connection it is essential that 
the organist should find a cordial collaborator in the 
Precentor. It is a very serious and important fact 
that no success can ensue in the administration 



334 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

of the service music unless there is perfect accord 
between the organist and the Precentor. In my 
long career, I have, as already stated, worked with 
eleven Precentors, so that I am able to speak authori- 
tatively on this matter. If the Precentor considers 
himself the superior musical authority, the position is 
impossible. As constituting a link or means of 
communication between the organist and choir, and 
the Dean, the Precentor can perform much valuable 
work, and can carry out many duties relating to the 
discipline of the choir, thus relieving the organist of 
much worry. The custom now prevalent at the Abbey, 
and at many Cathedrals, of the music-lists being 
compiled by the Precentor, need be no obstacle to a 
good and wise selection, if the organist continues to be 
allowed to see the lists and to make suggestions before 
they are issued. My experience teaches me that if, in 
their respective spheres of work, the organist and 
Precentor studiously avoid those paths that must 
inevitably clash, and if they are equally supported by 
the Dean, all will be well. 

Yet a cause of failure may be found to occur else- 
where than in the official relationship of organist and 
Precentor. I refer to the impossibility of considering 
the individual tastes of the various Canons. I am 
reluctant to suggest that a Canon should not express 
an opinion upon the music of the Church, and 
already have cordially acknowledged the help received 
in the early days of my career, from the loyal 
support of Canons when I was not impartially upheld 
by the Dean. But no man can serve seven masters 
six Canons and a Dean and the radiating centre of 
authority is undoubtedly the Dean. 

Some amusing stones might be told of quaint 
suggestions made by clerics who possessed but little 
knowledge of musical affairs. An incident occurred 



DUTIES OF LAY-VICARS 335 

not long ago at a country Cathedral, when a member 
of the Chapter proposed that to " shorten the service, 
in future only single chants should be used for the 
Psalms " ! I remember in my early days being called 
to account for a slight change that timerously I had 
introduced in the method of starting the Psalms. 
My censor was a Canon who only came into 
residence for one month out of the twelve. For- 
tunately I had the Precentor with me, so nothing 
serious happened. 

A matter vital to the success of the choral service 
demands the careful consideration of the authorities, 
viz., the duties and emoluments of Lay- Vicars. 
Their duties are onerous in most Cathedrals and 
Collegiate Churches they have to be present at all 
week-day and Sunday services ; but their salaries are 
absurdly low, on an average not more than 100 a 
year. I do not think any real advance has been 
made in the stipends of these necessary members 
of Cathedral choirs during the last fifty years, while 
the salaries of almost every other body of men 
especially during recent months have been greatly 
augmented. Again, considering the nature of their 
employment, Lay- Vicars ought to be retired at a 
certain age and with a pension. This desirable 
reform has been in force at the Abbey for several 
years past, with the best results. The absence of any 
such arrangement in my early years at Westminster 
sometimes had a distressing reaction on the services, 
while the impossibility of securing adequate presentation 
of the music because of the physical incapacity of an 
aged singer, frequently made my life very unhappy. 

With much diffidence, but with a real feeling of 
responsibility, I now venture to make a few remarks 
upon the daily services and the status and privileges 
of the organist. 



336 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

I have seen in the recently-published Report of the 
Archbishops' Committee upon the administrative 
reform of the Church, that some suggestions are put 
forward with regard to important alterations in the 
character of the daily choral services in Cathedrals. 
In order that the choristers may be free to attend a 
Secondary school, the morning service is to be sung 
in plainsong by men only, while the evening service is 
to be held at a later hour. 

If in future the character of the music and the time 
of the daily services in Cathedrals are to depend chiefly 
upon what is convenient to the choirboys, and not upon 
what would be convenient to or in consonance with the 
wishes of those who attend to worship at those services, 
it is well that we should have the courage openly to 
admit the fact, and recognise that it is the choirboy, 
and not the Dean and Chapter, to whom in the future 
we shall look as the final seat of authority in such 
matters. It seems to have been overlooked that the 
Cathedral chorister is selected and engaged for 
the special purpose of rendering the music at the 
choral services, and not for the purpose of supplying 
him with a good education free of cost. This only 
comes in as a side issue. In view of the fact that so 
many of those educated at Choir Schools have risen 
to eminence in their chosen professions, and that 
it has not been possible to point to any special 
deficiencies in their classical equipment, it is not 
unfair to assume that when a Cathedral Choir School 
has a competent master and is organized in a 
satisfactory manner, the choirboys do not suffer in 
their general education. 

Quite apart however from this question of choirboy 
education, I consider any attempt to alter the character 
of the daily services in the manner suggested would be 
a mistake. There is no doubt that to a certain kind of 






.; 










if 

.Y 






y% 



PILGRIM 



Wc';\-:hop> .'.."ir'.iUte cp^u the administrative 

'-:>:;-< . :-, 4 c^ar:i to important alterations : n TO, 
; har ,.).;."' -r. :ht dauv' ..-.hora! services in Caihedrols 

S ..:." '-i-.'; .>eh''ol, tiu morning service is to be sung 
; ' ; :i>;;'-Ji, ! by men onK , while t;v j evening a-crvice is 

:,.!.:' at a" later hour. 

M future the eb-uuoUr 01 the music and *:)::. tirf.e 

i.ne i::es h> Cathedrals are io tieDend chiefly 

; v -i.)i - - . ' lo the choirboys; rind i".ot upon 

-'; :':.. s . 'c-n to or :n consonance v/uh the 

nd to v/Gi\-hip at those >ervices. 

ho ! .i3d have tbe courage openly to 

admil tht i p-sc that it is the ehoirbov, 

io vvhosv; in ih':: future 

shal! l(H">i' .'i ! ;ti of aut.h''''''ty in sarh 

matti :n ov-Tloolre-J chat the 

Cathedra.3 honst;i' . :::d and engaged to: 

the sr : e'.'.i;'..i pvi'po; -.-. . r ' ; og tuc music, at 1 the 

oho: a! services, ^;vJ n^a ; -. v-urriose. ol Siipplying; 

A i. J. .' tT? 

him svith .:' good, edu ".v.e ot cc-s!:. Th-> (.>n)y 

coine^ i.o :is a sich; is^-iv. > . vic.v of the l^ct ihin so 
irriny of tli(; - se educate--! at '-'"hois Schools have rK : e^ 
to eminence in thrir h.--: : a professions, anu thai 
it has not been possibi-. i.o ;>oiiit to any special 
deficiencies in tl:eir i. las.- u;;U quipnient. it is not: 
unfa? r to a^:-,urYic that -'Tie?- :. f ^tliedra; Choir S;:hoo 
ruis a v:oi;petcnt rnnsier aji*:! o ; . organised in a 
^attsiactory mariner, the choii hoyr, do not suffer in 
their general education. 

Q-'iire apart however fior; t.h^..s question *? choirboy 
education, 1 consider any auenvpi to a'tei the character" 
of the clady .services in the maimc r ' suggested would be 
- rnistakt;. There is jio doubt that to a certain kind of 




FROM A PASTHL DRAWING 15 V SIR WILLIAM RICHMOND. K.C.B.. R.A. 




STATUS OF THE ORGANIST 337 

mind plainsong makes a very strong appeal, but I am 
quite sure, from my personal knowledge of the general 
character and musical instinct of the average worshipper 
at Cathedrals and elsewhere, that while plainsong 
might appeal to a few, to the vast majority daily plain- 
song services would be most distasteful. Moreover, 
the introduction of them would destroy at a blow 
the great and inspiring traditions which have been 
associated with the daily services at our Cathedrals for 
hundreds of years. I readily admit that continual 
plainsong services would not have a strong attraction 
for me, therefore I have tried to view the matter from a 
detached and impartial point of view, and believe I 
have expressed the feelings of the vast majority of 
those who worship at our Cathedrals, to whom the 
present form of service when rendered in a careful 
and reverent manner appeals as no other form of 
service can do. 

Concerning the time of daily evening service, this 
varies at different Cathedrals, and I imagine that 
hitherto the time chosen has been selected because 
local conditions made it the most convenient for the 
worshippers. If a service is intended to be an act 
of worship, surely it should take place at a time when 
worshippers can attend, and not merely at a time 
specially selected to meet the convenience of some of 
the officials. 

The exact position of the organist in connection 
with the other officers of the Cathedral is, as 
has been shown, not always easy to define, and 
has at times led to dispute and difficulty. It is 
therefore with great surprise that I notice in the 
Report that while it is suggested that a new 
set of statutes should be framed defining the powers 
and positions of many of the ecclesiastical and 
other officers of Cathedrals, no mention whatever 

z 



338 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

is made of the organist. In view of the fact that 
during the past fifty years the whole musical and 
general education and social position of the organist 
have advanced in a very marked manner, and that 
musicians, both Church and otherwise, mix upon equal 
terms with all classes of professional men, it is of the 
highest importance that any uncertainty or ambiguity 
as to the organist's position in the Cathedral body 
and his security of tenure should be definitely removed. 
No new statutes would be satisfactory that did not 
take such matters into consideration. 

Although it is many years since I held the post 
of organist at a Parish Church, yet the number of 
my pupils who hold such appointments and my long 
and intimate connection with the Royal College of 
Organists make the welfare of organists of parish 
churches a matter very near to my heart. It is 
therefore with great satisfaction that I have watched the 
development of efforts recently made to give organists 
and choirmasters a more satisfactory legal status. I 
consider their present position unsatisfactory in many- 
ways, and frequently this has led to their being 
treated in a manner both harsh and arbitrary. Of the 
various remedial propositions that have been put 
forward on the one hand by the organists them- 
selves, and on the other by the Church authorities 
which are likely to prove the more satisfactory I am not 
prepared to say. I am persuaded that any reform 
in the administration of the Church in its parochial 
matters would be incomplete unless the legal status 
of the organist be clearly defined and it be 
stated by whom he should be appointed and the 
conditions under which he might be required to 
relinquish his office. It surely is the barest justice 
to the large number of educated men and able 
musicians who are in charge of the music in parish 



ORGANISTS' BENEVOLENT LEAGUE 339 

churches that they should have a reasonable security 
of tenure while they perform their duties in a 
satisfactory manner. 

For a long time past also I have been concerned at 
the sad lot of the great body of organists whose pay is 
never at all commensurate with their responsibilities. 
Their Church duties are onerous, but in order to live 
they have to devote themselves to teaching, which 
frequently becomes an unremitting drudgery. If they 
have the inclination and genius to compose they 
have not the time, or their compositions reflect the 
dull and cramping influences of monotonous work 
and unresponsive pupils. They cannot in many cases 
provide for their dependants ; when they grow old and 
their powers are failing, and pupils are hard to retain, 
then are they frequently faced with grinding poverty. 

Pondering these things, I at length suggested the 
formation of an Organists' Benevolent League, the 
conditions of membership to be : (i) No regular 
subscription ; but (2) an undertaking to give yearly,, 
if possible, an organ recital or some other musical 
performance, the proceeds, after paying expenses, 
to go towards a fund for the relief of destitute 
organists and their dependants. The Royal College 
of Organists took up my suggestion, lending their 
offices and the necessary clerical assistance ; the Hon. 
Secretary and the Registrar undertaking the duties of 
Secretary and Treasurer. The League has been a 
real success having relieved a great number of cases, 
very often poor ladies whose fathers could not make 
provision for them and it is already able to provide 
a few small pensions. It has now over ^1,000 invested, 
while the organization is on a sound basis. 

Much of the foregoing brings me to the subject 
of musical education in general. This is indeed on, 
a much higher level than when I was young. The 



340 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

many Colleges and Schools of Music are all admirably 
managed, and admittedly are highly efficient in their 
organization for inculcating musical knowledge. Yet 
in one direction I must confess that constantly, in the 
midst of so much perfection, am I conscious of 
disappointment, and that is in the matter of their 
ability to turn out singers who are really efficiently 
equipped as musicians. The instrumental students 
are as a rule excellent readers and executants ; the 
composition students understand their business (even 
if they have not all got genius) ; but the vocalists, 
in far too many cases, are poor readers and therefore 
bad musicians. I am constantly appealed to by young 
singers to "give them a chance" at the Royal Choral 
Society. But I have very often regretted doing so, 
the aspirant having frequently given me a bad time. 
A couple of singing-lessons a week will not make 
a singer read well. It is only daily practice that 
will evolve this facility; so it is that the little choir- 
boys, aged from nine to sixteen, who have to prepare 
over four hundred anthems a year, learn to read 
perfectly. Such is the only way to acquire this most 
necessary art. 

The authorities of our Colleges and Schools of 
Music should labour to establish upon a sound basis 
this great and indeed invaluable part of a vocalist's 
equipment. 

The recognised musical training in vogue in my young 
days was largely and had been up till then almost 
exclusively in the Cathedrals. After a boy had sung 
for years in the choir he had become saturated with 
vocal counterpoint. Goss said to me once that such 
a training was invaluable because the music the boys 
sang '* ate into their marrow." The great advantage, 
however, of hearing also good instrumental music was 
often denied them. 



TIMELY ASSISTANCE 341 

In the training that is advocated in the Colleges 
and Schools of Music to-day, the student becomes 
saturated with instrumental idiom. Very little vocal 
counterpoint comes his way, and frequently his 
vocal writing suffers. It is probable that the best 
results are produced in the case of a Cathedral 
choirboy, and then by entering him at a recognised 
School of Music after he has spent a year or 
two in the organ-loft. By this procedure his intro- 
duction to instrumental freedom will not interfere 
with his solid foundation of vocal counterpoint. 
The results of such a training are to be seen in 
the careers of Sterndale Bennett, Stainer, Sullivan, 
Charles Macpherson, and Walford Davies, to name 
only a few. 

Still another point arises in connection with the 
training of students in our Colleges and Schools oi 
Music. I refer to the case of the young composers. 
Surely some arrangement might be made whereby they 
were assured a reasonable subsistence after they have 
graduated. Having in mind the manner of working of 
the Oxford and Cambridge Fellowships, which so 
opportunely come to the aid of literary and scientific 
scholars upon their entry into the world, I have 
already suggested, in an article in the Press on 
" Music after the War," that the Carnegie Trust should 
employ some of its ample funds in this way to aid 
young musicians on the threshold of their career. A 
man may compose a symphonic poem, and get the 
Carnegie Trust to publish it, but he will not be able to 
make a living, let alone keep a wife and children, on 
this barren success. 

If he could be sure of a certain income for two or 
three years, he would be encouraged to write not pot- 
boiling ballads, but something really artistic and 
enduring. 



342 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

I am glad to be able to say that Trinity College of 
Music, recognising this urgent need, has resolved to 
found a scholarship to be held by a student of 
composition who has completed his College course. 
It is proposed to devote 100 a year for the purpose of 
assisting the promising young composer who may be 
selected, and with this aid to subsistence it is hoped 
that he will be able to devote his efforts to the 
production of worthy music that shall aim only at 
the highest ideals. 



CHAPTER XXX. 

Some Devoted Assistants in the Organ- Loft Service Music for 
the Abbey : " Palestrina and His School " End of Pilgrimage : 
the Philosophy of Humour Apothegm of Lord Houghton's 
A Lancashire Adage Letter from Bishop Ryle Valediction. 

BEFORE I close this record I must not omit a word 
of thanks to some of the younger organists who have 
been associated with me. At Manchester I had a 
most valuable assistant in Mr. Wilson, who has since 
attained high rank as a trainer of the Halle Choir and 
the Birmingham Festival Choir. At the Abbey I had 
for many years the most devoted and conscientious 
help of Mr. W. J. Winter, and later of Dr. Alcock* and 
Mr. E. S. Roper. 

As will be seen from the foregoing pages, there are 
many extra occasions besides the regular Abbey services 
that have to be provided for ; and yet the list does 
not by any means include all the calls made upon 
the organist. But I am not aware of any time on 
which it could be said that the service music was 
not reverently and adequately rendered, and I desire 
here to place on record my gratitude to those already 
mentioned, and to many others, who have devotedly 
helped me during a long course of years. 

My relations with the various Precentors at West- 
minster have been invariably cordial. Mr. Flood Jones 
had been in office some years before I was appointed. 
He was rather inclined to conservatism in music. 
It was, however, a bad time to be original, for just 

* Late organist and composer to the Chapel Royal ; now organist of 
Salisbury Cathedral. 



344 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

then as I have shown in my earlier pages there were 
so many Lay- Vicars past their prime who still 
occupied the choir stalls. Always a very amiable 
man, it was not difficult to find in Mr. Flood Jones 
an agreeable and loyal colleague. In one direction he 
did splendid work for the Abbey when he succeeded in 
organizing and maintaining a most efficient voluntary 
choir for the special Sunday evening services. He 
was able to exact from the regular choristers an 
unfailingly cheerful obedience. 

As successor to Mr. Flood Jones came the Rev. Dr. 
Troutbeck, whose activities in the way of musical 
editorship are well known. He was mainly responsible 
for the establishment of a school-house for the boys, 
and was zealous in striving always to maintain the 
musical services at a high level. He held office only 
for about four years. 

I think, however, the happiest period of my 
Westminster life was during the Precentorship of 
the Rev. H. G. Daniell-Bainbridge, who succeeded 
Dr. Troutbeck. He did not pretend to be a learned 
musician, but his judgment was always good. A 
really studious Churchman on points of ritual, he 
had accumulated a wide knowledge of what was 
appropriate for the Church's seasons, and we worked 
together in perfect sympathy, always meeting regularly 
at his house to settle the music and rehearsals 
for a fortnight in advance. We never had a difference ; 
as he once said, " we had no time to quarrel," while the 
choir yielded respect and obedience as never Precentor 
had had before. We collaborated in editing music for 
the Abbey services, notably a new Psalter, and -most 
valuable contribution of all a fine volume of music 
entitled " Palestrina and his School." It includes the 
names of Jacob Ha'ndl, John IV. of Portugal, Marenzio, 
Palestrina, Vecchi, and Vittoria, and furnishes suitable 



THE GRACE OF HUMOUR 345 

unaccompanied Motets for most of the great festivals. 
I have a greater pride in this volume than in any of my 
compositions. The Rev. Daniell-Bainbridge's removal 
to an important living was a real blow to me, and a 
great loss to the Abbey. 

In the Rev. T. R. Hine-Haycock, and in the present 
Precentor, the Rev. L. H. Nixon, the Abbey has had 
the benefit of the labours of really earnest men of whom 
I have none but the happiest recollections of my work 
with them. During the years of the War it became a 
very difficult matter to sustain the high standard of the 
services. Many of the Lay-Vicars had been called to 
the Colours, and their places could not be filled. The 
boys, however, worked splendidly. It was an arduous 
and anxious period, but we made the best of it, and 
doubtless it will be conceded we emerged creditably. 

I have now attained the end of my Pilgrimage so far 
as work at the Abbey is concerned, but still pursue 
many paths of musical enterprise. I do not know if 
this record will after all be thought to possess much 
interest, yet so many have asked me to undertake the 
task, entailing as it does a description of many eventful 
years crowded with responsible musical doings, that 
possibly the story may be worth telling. Some there 
may be who will see in my chronicle a too frequent 
propensity to extract humour from all manner of 
situations. The experience of a long life has however { 
taught me that sweet reasonableness ever waits on 
humour, whose warm radiance searches and dispels 
many shadows. There is a well-known hymn by Joseph 
Addison which we have often sung in the Abbey, 
containing a verse that I always loved to accompany : 

Ten thousand thousand precious gifts 

My daily thanks employ, 
Nor is the least a cheerful heart 

That takes those gifts with joy 



346 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

and in this connection I would venture to quote 
what Monckton Milnes (first Lord Houghton) said of 
Henry Lushington* : " Perhaps he paid what 
appears to be the inevitable penalty of humorous 
men in their relations to public life that of seeming 
unsteadfast to the narrow-minded and insincere to 
the stupid." 

I have had much to be thankful for good health 
and abundant encouragement. The one desire of my 
youth, as I have said in my earlier pages, was to 
be a Cathedral organist I did not aspire to be more 
than that. The attainment of my ambition came to 
me in early life, and the appointment to Westminster 
Abbey when still young. Now I am " old and grey- 
headed" I am relinquishing to a younger man the 
responsibility of teaching choirboys and directing the 
Abbey music all that great and arduous labour that 
the position of chief-musician of Westminster entails. 
Older men do not as a rule like to stand aside for 
younger men. But there is a saying in Lancashire 
that " There is nothing to beat a good old 'un except 
a good young 'un," and I hope and believe that in 
Mr. Sydney H. Nicholson the " good young 'un" has 
been found. Although I surrender my seat at the organ 
in such a place as Westminster Abbey with natural 
feelings of sorrow, yet, as I have said, I have still the 
happiness of continuing in many other spheres of 
important musical work which will I hope occupy 
me as long as I have health and strength to fulfil 
them properly. 

Innumerable letters have reached me from a wide 
circle of friends in connection with the, to me, 
momentous step that I have taken. I venture to 
select one, written by him who for many years has 
been the principal chronicler of the comings and 

* " The Cambridge ' Apostles,' " by Francis M. Brookfield (1906). 



LETTER FROM 'TOBY, M.P." 347 

goings of public men Sir Henry Lucy, so long known 
to readers of Punch as " Toby, M.P." : 

" Whitehaven, Hythe, 

"Kent, 
"August 4th, 1918. 

" MY DEAR BRIDGE, I trust that your proximate 
retirement, which I see announced, is not consequent 
upon failing health and strength ? Anyhow, after 
forty-three years' work in a responsible position, you 
have earned the right to a period of leisure, which I 
trust may be long and happy. 

" My wife and I preserve recollections of the nights 
long ago when, in the darkened Abbey, you discoursed 
divinest music. It will be hard to replace you in the 
organ-loft. 

" Yours faithfully, 

" HENRY LUCY." 

Sir Henry refers to some recitals that I gave at 
various periods in the Abbey. These took place at 
about nine o'clock in the evening, and as a rule there 
were no lights except in the organ-loft. Many of my 
friends frequently recall these evenings, which unfor- 
tunately had to be suspended during the War, the 
air-raids making such functions impossible. 

The "period of leisure" visualised by Sir Henry 
promises to be far removed from placid browsings : 
rather does it beckon to strenuous devotion to the work 
that remains. And when at times I yield to the lure 
of the Valley of Glass it will be for no " philosophising 
and world-despising in the solitudes" (as Evelyn, 
self-interned at Wotton,* wrote to his friend and 
brother-Diarist Pepys) although from thence (again 

* August, 1692. 



348 A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 

to quote Evelyn to Pepys) I may amusedly "look 
down upon the world with wondrous contempt when I 
consider for what we keep such a mighty bustle." 

During the later years of my activities at the 
Abbey I have indeed been more than fortunate 
in the constant encouragement and recognition 
which I have found from Bishop Ryle, the present 
Dean of Westminster. The letters that he has kindly 
written to me after many of our great services speak 
for themselves, but I cannot withhold my special 
thanks to him for his letter written on the day when 
I laid down my charge of the Abbey music. At such 
a moment and crisis in my life it had a moving effect, 
and for this kindly act of affectionate consideration 
I am exceedingly thankful. The following is Bishop 
Ryle's letter: 

"The Deanery, 

"Westminster, S.W. I. 

"December 3 is/, 1918. 

" MY DEAR SIR FREDERICK, Let me send you a 
line, though I feel the words are difficult to frame. 
How can I sufficiently thank you for all you have done 
for the Abbey and the Abbey music! 

" I cannot express what Stanley, and Bradley, and 
Armitage-Robinson could each of them have expressed 
more adequately, and yet not all of them would have 
expressed entirely. With your last Dean you have 
been all that was kind, and thoughtful, and friendly; 
and now that 1918 is drawing to a close I can feel 
how keen must be the wrench of the severance from 
your life's best work. But I have no doubt that the 
step is a wise one. You will still be with us. May 
God give you and Lady Bridge many years yet of 
good health and unclouded happiness. 

"Yours affectionately, 

"HERBERT E. RYLE." 



A LASTING SOLACE 349 

For the long period of sixty-eight years I have sung 
or played accompaniments to the Psalms of David. 
Like many before me I have constantly found solace 
and inspiration in these Songs of Praise. This beautiful 
verse has always specially appealed to me : " One 
thing have I desired of the Lord which I will require, 
even that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the 
days of my life, to behold the fair beauty of the Lord 
and to visit His Temple." This privilege is, happily, 
still to be mine; and as I pass my remaining days 
in the Cloisters, and attend the services of the 
Abbey, I shall, I hope, often join with sincere 
thankfulness in another verse of the Psalms the old 
Pilgrims' Psalm it has been called a verse specially 
dear to me as having been inscribed on the grave- 
stone of my Father, from whom I inherit my love 
for Cathedrals and their music : 

"THY STATUTES HAVE BEEN MY SONGS IN THE 
HOUSE OF MY PILGRIMAGE." 



APPENDIX 



BACH 
BEETHOVEN 

BERLIOZ ... 
BRAHMS ... 
BRIDGE 



THE following is a list of works performed by the Royal 
Choral Society under the Author's direction during the years 

1896-1918. The figures refer to the number of times of 
performance : 

Mass in B minor ... ... ... 3 

Ninth (Choral) Symphony ... 2 

" Ruins of Athens " ... ... i 

"Faust" ... ... ... ... 4 

" The Childhood of Christ " ... i 

"Requiem" i 

" Triumphlied " ... ... ... i 

"A Song of the English " ... 2 

" Ballad of the Clampherdown "... i 

"Callirhoe" ... ... ... i 

" Flag of England " ... ... 3 

" Forging of the Anchor" ... i 

" Rock of Ages" i 

" The Inchcape Rock " ... ... i, 

" A Tale of Old Japan " 2 

"Hiawatha" ... ... ... 15 

"Kubla-Khan" i 

"The Atonement"... ... ... i 

" The Blind Girl of Castel-Cuille " i 

" Coronation Ode " ... ... i 

"The Veil" i 

" Stabat Mater " i 

" The Spectre's Bride " i 

"Caractacus" ... ... ... 2 

" Dream of Gerontius " ... ... 13 

" For the Fallen " i 

"KingOlaf" i 

" The Apostles " 2 

"The Kingdom" ... ... ... i 

" The Music Makers " i 

"The Spirit of England" ... i 
GOUNOD ... ... "Redemption" 



COLERIDGE-TAYLOR 



COWEN 



DVORAK 



ELGAR 



APPENDIX 



351 



HANDEL ... 



HAYDN ... 
LEONI 
MACKENZIE 
MENDELSSOHN 



PARKER, HORATIO 
PARRY 



SAINT-SAENS 
SCHUBERT 
SPOHR 
STANFORD 



SULLIVAN 

VAUGHAN -WILLIAMS 

VERDI 

WAGNER.. 



WOOD, CHARLES 



" Acis and Galatea " 
" Alexander's Feast " 
"Israel in Egypt" 
" Judas Maccabaeus " 

"L' Allegro" 

"Messiah" 

"Creation" 

"Gate of Life" 

" The Witch's Daughter " 
" A Hymn of Praise " 

"Elijah" 

" First Walpurgis Night " 

" Hora Novissima " 

" Blest Pair of Sirens " ... 

"Job" 

" St. Cecilia's Day " 

" The Chivalry of the Sea " 

" The Pied Piper of Hamelin " . 

" War and Peace " 

" The Promised Land " ... 

" Song of Miriam " 

" Last Judgment " 

"Songs of the Fleet " 
" Songs of the Sea " 

" Stabat Mater " 

" Golden Legend " 

"Light of the World" ... 

" A Sea Symphony " 

"Requiem" 

" Flying Dutchman " (Selection). 

" Holy Supper of the Apostles " 

"Lohengrin" (Selection)... 

"Parsifal" (Selections) ... 

" A Dirge for Two Veterans " . 



2 
i 

5 

i 
i 

45 

3 

i 

i 

4 

23 

2 
I 
2 
I 
I 
I 
I 
2 
I 
2 
I 
I 

3 

i 

10 

i 
i 

2 
I 
I 
I 
2 
I 



There have in addition been six performances of Christmas 
Carols during consecutive years up till 1918. 



INDEX 



PAGE 

" A Christmas Carol " ... 36 

Abbey Services, The 72, 333 

Abinger, Lord 97 

Adams, Prof. ... 289 

Additional accompaniments 274 

" Adeste fideles " 125 

Agricultural Hall, The ... 41 

Airraids 248,347 

Albani, Madame 302 

Albany, Duchess of 176 

Albany, Duke of 126 

Alcock, Dr. Walter G. 

193, 206, 233, 254, 343 

Alexandra, Princess 16 

Allen, Dr. H.P 86 

" Amorous Goat," An ... no 

" Annabel Lee " ... ... 29 

Apple barrel, The ... ... 8 

Archbishops' Report, The 219, 336 

Argyll, Duke of 240 

Armagh Cathedral ... ... 70 

Armes, Dr. P. 6, n, 15, 25, 159 
Armistice, The ... ... 112 

Arne, Dr 326 

Arnold, Dr. Samuel ... ... 326 

Articled Pupils 81 

Ashwell, Lena 242 

Associated Board ... ... 86 

Aston, Mr 158 

"At the Mill-dam " 93 

Athenaeum Club, The ... 268 

Atterbury, Dean ... ... 309 

Attwood, Thomas ... 20, 86, 200 
Australian correspondent ... 165 
Aveling, Claude ... ... 86 

Aylward, Theodore ... ... 267 

B.A. degree 261 

" Baal, we cry to thee " ... 15 

Bach Choir, The 138 

Bach's "Christmas Oratorio" 

86, 121 

Bach's " 48," Prout's words to 275 
AA 



Bach's G minor Fugue ... 249 
Bach's " Passion " ... 64,72 
Bach's " St. Ann" Fugue ... 15 
Baillie-Hamilton, Mr. ... 117 
Bainbridge,Rev. H. G.Daniell- 344 

Baker, Dalton 216 

Baker, Sir Benjamin ... 221 

Balfe, Michael W. ... 197, 229 

Balfour, A. J. ... 166, 294 

" Banner of St. George, The" 173 
" Bannerolles " (Pepys) ... 203 
Bantry, Lady ... ... 225 

"BarbeBleue" ... ... 45 

Barham, Rev. R. H. ... 196 

Barnby, Sir Joseph 64, 66, 72, 160 
Barnby's Choir ... ... 273 

Barry, Bishop ... ... 126 

Bawling ... ... ... 10 

Baynes, Sir Thomas... ... 266 

Beaconsfield's Funeral Service 2 
Beatrice, Princess ... ... 149 

" Beauty retire " ... ... 203 

Bellows v. Diaphragms ... 80 
Bells, Westminster ... ... 329 

Benecke, Madame Marie ... 139 
Benedict, Sir Julius ... ... 278 

Bennett, Joseph ... 60, 276 
Bennett, Sir W. Sterndale 65, 341 
Benson, Archbishop... ... 131 

Berens, Mrs. ... ... ... 225 

Berger, Francesco ... ... 278 

Berlioz's "Faust" ... 62, 162 
Berlioz's Te Deum ... ... 138 

Bertie, Sir Francis ... 188, 269 

Best, W. T 54 

" Bidding Prayer," The ... 24 
Bigge, Sir Arthur ... ... 223 

Birch, C. B., A.R.A. ... 119 

Birch (pastrycook) ... ... 267 

Birmingham Festival Choir 343 

Birth, Date of 3 

Birthday Book, A 88 

Black Bag, A. 132 



354 



A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 



Blaikley, D. J 289 

Blind Fred ... ... i, 33 

Bliss, Rev. W. H 50 

Blow, Dr. John ... ... 323 

Bluebell Hill 14 

Boi'to ... ... ... ... 306 

" Bold Turpin " ... 93, 253 

"Bomba" (A. J. Balfour) ... 166 

" Bombastes Furioso " ... 45 

Borden, Sir Robert ... ... 220 

Borland, Dr. John E. 186, 193 

Bovey, Dr. H. T. ... ... 271 

Bowling Alley ... ... 158 

Boyce, Dr. W. 155, 201, 325 

Bradford, Prof. J. R. ... 270 

Bradley, Dean 102, 121, 135, 206 

Braham ... ... ... 197 

Briand, M. ... ... ... 269 

Bridge, Prof. J. C. ... 6, 1 60, 195 

Bright, John ... ... ... 138 

British Pianoforte Industry 328 

Brodrick, Sir A. ... ... 266 

" Brook" family, The ... 38 

Browne, Thomas ... ... 267 

Browning, Robert ... ... 139 

Bryan, Albertus ... ... 323 

Buck, Dr. Zechariah ... 71 

Buckland, George ... ... 30 

Buffo-Song ... ... ... 29 

Bull, Dr. John ... 147, 265 

Bull Inn, The ... ... 35 

Burne-Jones, Sir Edward ... 175 

Busk, Sir Edward ... ... 269 

Cabman Critic, A. ... ... 162 

Cabrach District, The ... 105 

Calkin, Joseph ... ... 145 

" Callirhoe " ... ... 115, 303 

Cambon, M 188 

Cambridge, Duke of... ... 206 

Campbell-Bannerman,SirH. 216 

Canadian Festival ... ... 300 

Canadian Visit ... 216, 296 

Candle on the stairs, The ... 7 
Canterbury, Archbishop of 

170, 1 80, 193 

Cardigan, Lord ... ... 20 

Carl Rosa Opera Company 281 

Carlisle Cathedral 6 



PAGE 

Carnegie Trust ... ... 341 

Carpenter, Bishop Boyd 

126, 136, 241, 245 
Castle's Ship-breaking Yard 15 

" Catch," A 93 

Cathedral Music ... ... 332 

"Cathedral Trusts and their 
fulfilment" ... ... 24 

Cawdor, The Countess ... 214 
Caxton Celebration ... ... 89 

Celestial (Electric) Organ 125, 318 
Chants ... ... ... 33 

Chapel Royal, St. James's ... 73 
Chapel Royal, Children of the 

Chappell, Arthur ... ... 130 

Chappell, William ... ... 289 

Charge of the Light Brigade 20 

Charles I. ... ... ... 38 

" Cheer, boys, cheer" ... 20 

Chester Cathedral ... ... 6 

Chichester Cathedral ... 15 

Choir Benevolent Fund, The 12 

Choir School, Rochester ... 5 
Choir School, Westminster 5, 77 

Choir Stalls, The 78 

Chopin's hand ... ... 321 

Chopin's Marche Funebre ... 124 

"Choral Songs and Madrigals" 144 

Chorister days ... ... 4 

Choristers' Magazine, The ... 5 

" Christ and His soldiers "... 137 
Christian IX., King of 
Denmark ... ... ...212 

Christian, Prince ... ... 119 

Christian, Princess ... ... 149 

" Christmas Bells " ... ... 117 

" Christmas Carol, A " ... 36 

" Christmas Oratorio, The "... 120 

" Chromatic Bullock " ... 39 

Church House, The 17, 138, 190 

Church Music ... ... 322 

Clark, Richard ... ... 159 

Clarke, A. D. ... ... 126,318 

Clay, Dr. Reginald S. ... 328 

Clayton, John R. ... ... 195 

Clayton, Thomas ... ... 265 

Cliffe, Frederic ... ... 233 

Cobbett, W. W 120 



INDEX 



355 



Cobham Hall ... ... 37 

Coleridge, Arthur Duke 50, 140 
Collaboration with Colleagues 332 
College of Music, see Royal. 
College of Organists, see Royal. 

Collins, Col. R. H 176 

Collins, Sir William... ... 269 

Colonne Orchestra ... ... 271 

"Comfort ye" ... ... 75 

Common C(h)ord, The ... 152 
Competitions for String 
Quartet ... ... ... 120 

Compton, Lord Alwyne ... 121 
Contra-fagotto, The ... ... 122 

Coodham ... ... ... 90 

Cooke, Dr. Benjamin ... 326 

Cooke, Robert ... 321, 326 

Cooling Castle ... ... 13 

" Coom oop" ... ... 58 

Cooper, Wilbye ... ... 35 

Corf e, Dr. W 48 

Coronation Choir ... 185 et seq. 
Coronation Choir Dinner ... 236 
Coronation Music ... 182, 195 
Coronation of Edward VII. 

177, 182, 193 
Coronation of George V. ... 231 

Coronation of Queen Victoria 198 
Coronation of William IV. ... 196 

Coronation Service Book, The 195 
Costa, Sir Michael ... ... 18 

Costly rehearsals ... ... 129 

Counterfeit Inspectors ... 106 
Counterpoint ... ... ... 86 

Coward, James ... ... 25 

Coward, J. Munro ... ... 130 

Cowen, Sir F. H. ... ... 233 

Cox, H. Bertram ... ... 115 

" Cradle of Christ, The " ... 150 
Crawford, Sir Home wood 

I 5 I > 237, 242 
" Cressy," The ... ... 15 

Crewe, Marquess of ... ... 144 

Crews, C. T. D. ... 213,321 

Cricket Match, A 80 

Cricket Matches ... ... 37 

Crimean War, The ... ... 20 

Croft, Dr. W. 324 

Cromer, Lord ... ... 222 



Crook, Master (Chorister) ... 129 

Crookes, Prof. William ... 169 

Crossing the Atlantic ... 216 

" Crossing the Bar "... ... 148 

Crow, Dr. E. J. ... 11,20 

Crystal Palace ... ... 18 

Crystal Palace School of Music 

83. 253 
Cummings, Dr. W. H. 

68, 159, 289, 278 

Curwen, J. S ... ... 289 

Cusins, W. G. ... ... 278 

Customs, Old... ... ... 26 

C.V.O. 235 

D'Albert, Eugene 83 

Dallam, Thomas ... 314, 318 
Daniell-Bainbridge, Rev. H. 

G., see Bainbridge. 
Dare, Mr. (Lay-vicar) ... 69 
Darnley, Lord ... ... 37 

Darwin, Charles ... ... 124 

Davies, Ben ... ... 245, 305 

Davies, H. Walford 233, 341 

Day, Thomas ... ... 323 

Dead March in " Saul " ... 71 
Deerstalking ... ... ... 109 

Degree of Mus. Doc. ... 61 

Degrees, University (Oxford) 261 
Denman, Lord ... ... 242 

Denmark, King of ... ... 212 

Dering, Richard ... ... 229 

Devonshire, Duke of ... 236 

Diamond Jubilee ... ... 1 68 

Dickens, Charles ... 35, 36 
Dinner to Cathedral Organists 172 
Disease and Music ... ... 103 

Disraeli, B. ... ... ... 114 

Distaffina ... ... ... 45 

Dolby, Madame Sainton ... 29 
Donkin, Prof. ... ... 48 

" Don't Grumble " 82 

Double Counterpoint ... 86 

Doyle, Dicky ... ... 294 

Dreadful noise ... ... 23 

Dreams ... ... ... 62 

Drum effects ... ... ... 71 

Duckworth, Canon 

65, 76, 120, 129, 229 



356 



A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 



Durham Cathedral 
Dvorak, Antonin 



PAGE 

6 

122 



Eady, Sir C. Swinfen ... in 

Edwards, F. G 328 

" Edwin Drood " ... ... 9 

" Eh ! but he's only a lad " 53, 69 

Ekyn, Roger 47 

Elder and the whisky, The ... 103 
Electric Organ ... 125, 318 

Elgar, Sir Edward ... 61, 233 

"Elijah" ... 40,44, 121, 138 

Eliot, Charles 150 

Ella, John ... ... ... 142 

Elvey, Sir G. J 43 

Elwes, Gervase ... ... 161 

Emergency Blowers ... ...152 

Ernie, Lord, set Prothero, 

R. E. 

Esher, Lord ... ... ... 191 

Eton College 43 

Exeter Cathedral ... ... 6 

Exeter Hall 40 

Extempore playing ... ... 33 

Faculty of Music, Manchester 55 

Fallieres, M. ... ... ... 270 

Falstaff, Sir John ... 35, 36 

Fane, Sir Ponsonby ... 133, 190 

Farleigh ... ... ... 14 

Farmer, John... ... ... 137 

Farrar, Canon... 136, 172 284 
Father Smith (Bernard Smith) 

56, 159, 314 

"Faust" (Berlioz) 62 

Faversham ... ... ... 42 

Fawcett, Henry ... 126, 128 

" Fayer bridge of stone " ... 21 
Fellowships, Oxford and 

Cambridge ... ... ... 341 

Fenian outrages ... ... 132 

Fielding, W. (alto) 12 

Filthy lucre ... ... ... 33 

Fireworks ... ... ... 7 

Fishing ... ... n, 93 

" Fishing Idyll, A " 93 

Fishmongers' Hall ... ... 150 

Fitzroy, Sir Almeric ... 232 

" Flag of England, The " ... 1 72 



PAGE 

Flood Jones, Rev. S. 116, 343 

Forster, W. E. ... ... 127 

Foster, John ... ... ... 81 

Fowler, Sir John ... ... 221 

Fraser, Bishop ... 61, 66 

Freake, Sir Charles J. ... 254 

Freemantle, Mr. ... ... 283 

Fricker, H. A. ... ... 219 

Funeral Services 2, 121, 123, 139, 
174, 175, 223, 238 

Gad's Hill House ... ... 35 

Galuppi ... ... ... 140 

Gambetta's Funeral ... ... 124 

Ganz, Wilhelm ... ... 284 

Garcia, Manuel ... ... 292 

Garcia, Miss Paula ... ... 292 

Gardner, Charles ... 267, 278 

Gauger, The ... ... ... 103 

Gauld, James... ... ... 104 

Geddes, Sir William... ... 103 

German, Edward ... ... 233 

"Gerontius" ... ... ... 60 

Gibbons, Christopher 314, 323 

Gibbons Festival ... 38, 213 
Gibbons, Orlando 

38, 212 et seq., 313, 321, 
Gilbert, W. B ....... 

Gillie, A remarkable... ... 

Gladstone, Lord ... ... 

Gladstone, W. E. 

47 7 1 . IJ 4> I22 > 
Good Welsh accent, A ... 
Glass, Valley of ... ... 

Glen Urquhart ... ... 

" Go it, youngster " ... ... 

Godfrey, Percy ... ... 

" Golden Legend, The " ... 
Goldschmidt, Madame, see 

Jenny Lind. 

Goldschmidt, Otto 40, 1 18 
" Good house, nice beds " 
Good Welsh accent, A 
"Goose, The" ... 

Gordon, General Charles 
Gordon, John... ... 

Gore, Bishop 
Goschen, Lord ... 
Goss, John Jeremiah 



, 269, 293 
35 
245 
117 
281 
267 
78 
114 
327 



127, 



INDEX 



357 



Goss, Sir John 2, 19, 25, 41, 

53 et seg., 65, 86, 175, 200, 327, 340 

Gounod, Charles ... ... 273 

Gow, Dr. J 184 

Gowers, Sir William ... 169 

Grant, General ... ... 127 

Greatorex, Rev. Edward ... 320 
Greatorex, Thomas 124, 320, 326 

Gresham Professors 267 

Gresham Professorship 146, 264 

Grey, Earl 217, 220 

Grieg, Edvard ... 123, 307 

Griffin, Thomas 267 

Griffith, Rev. T. T. ... 16, 17 

Griffiths, Dr 16, 23 

Griffiths, Mrs. ... ... 23 

Grouse driving ... 4, 107 

Grove, Sir George 

84, 167, 171, 256, 274, 289 
Groves, Organ-blower ... 132 
Grumbling ... ... ... 82 

Guild of Organists, Canada 299 
Guilmant, F. A 125 



Hackett, Miss Maria ... 19 
Hackney Choral Association 255 

Hadow, Sir Henry ... ... 262 

Halle Concerts ... ... 54 

Halle, Sir Charles ... 62, 294 

Halle's Choir... ... ... 343 

Ham, Dr. ... ... ... 218 

Hamilton, Lady ... ... 69 

Handel Monuments ... ... 277 

Harcourt, Sir William V. 83, 114 

Hare, Augustus ... ... 69 

Harriss, Dr. Charles 216, 299 

Hart, Emma... ... ... 69 

Hawkins, Dr... ... ... 23 

Hawkins, Sir John ... ... 141 

Hawtrey, Charles ... ... 45 

Hawtrey, Rev. Henry ... 43 

Hawtrey, Rev. John ... 44 

Hawtrey, Rev. Stephen 43, 50 

Hebdomadal Council ... 261 

Hecht, Charles ... 62, 63 

Hedley, John... ... ... 161 

Helmore, Rev. Thomas ... 143 

Hennell, E. W 321 

AA* 



PAGE 

Higgs, James 252,289 

Highbury Philharmonic 
Society ... ... ... 255 

Hiles, Dr. Henry 63 

Hill, Sir Rowland ... ... 121 

Hilton, Robert 128 

Hine-Haycock, Rev. T. R. 345 
Kingston (Organist) ... ... 323 

Historical Extravaganza ... 30 
Hoare, Sir Henry ... ... 47 

Hole, Dean ... ... ... 170 

Holidays ... ... ... 15 

Holy Loch ... ... ... 90 

Homage Anthem 180, 187, 193, 231 
Hooper, Edmund ... 312, 322 
Hopkins, Dr. E. J. 

10, 16, 40, 54, 66, 172 
Hopkins, John ... 9, 10, 25 

Hopkins, John Larkin 4, 9, 25, 29 
Hopkins, Mrs. ... ... 4 

Hop-pickers ... ... ... 3 

" Hot Cross Buns "... ... 26 

Houghton, Lord ... ... 346 

Houldsworth, Sir William 

55 57. 90. 291 
House of Commons ... ... 113 

" How still and peaceful " ... 101 
Howe, James ... ... 30 

Howe, John ... ... ... 321 

Hughes, H. M 246 

Hullah, John 118,289 

Hunt, H. (Organist and 
Violinist) ... ... ... 213 

Huxley, Prof. ... ... 294 

Hydraulus ... ... ... 151 

" Hymn of Praise, The " 44, 89 
Hymn singing ... ... 101 

Hymns A. & M 207 



" I canna' sing fr' bukes" ... 59 
"I'll sing like the little beggars 

in front" ... ... ... 58 

Imperial College of Science 

and Technology ... ... 271 

" In Memoriam" ... ... 46 

" Ingoldsby Legends, The " 196 

Ireland, Dean ... ... 124 

Irvine, Dr. ... ... ... 24 



358 



A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 



Irving, Sir Henry 
" It will be all right " 



PAGE 
233 
IOO 



Jack Wilson 68 

Jackson, Alfred ... ... 81 

jekyll, Charles 70 

" Jerkins too matchlocks " 2 

"Jingle, Mr." ... 1,35 

Joachim, Professor ... 90,258 
Johnson, Dr., and Flora 
Macdonald ... ... ... 320 

ohnston, Sir Charles ... 241 

ohnstone, G. Hope ... ... 123 

ones, Rev. S. Flood, see Flood 

Jones. 
Jones, T. E. ... ... ... 42 

Joule, B. St. J. Baptist ... 53 

joule, J. P 53 

"Joule's Law" ... ... 54 

Jubilee, Queen Victoria's ... 128 
Jubilee Services 128, 136, 168 



Keene, Charles 
Keeton, Dr. Haydn 
Kelvin, Lord ... 
Kent Scholarship 
King, Archdeacon 



... 146 
47, 49, loo 

... 238 

... 85 
24 



King Edward VII., Death of 222 
King Edward Professorship 195 
King, Henry ... 186, 213 

King George V. ... ... 231 

" King's Musick, The " ... 242 
King's School, Rochester, The 24 
Kipling, Rudyard 169, 173, 242 
Kits Cotty House ... ... 14 

Knight, Richard ... ... 265 

Knighthood ... ... ... 1 68 

Knolles, Sir Robert ... ... 22 

Knollys, Lord ... ... 236 

"La Pluie des Perles" ... 142 

" Labby in our Abbey " ... 1 66 

Labouchere, Henry ... 47, 166 

Lafontaine, H. dela ... 242 

Lancashire Collier, The ... 250 

Lansdowne, Lord ... ... 1 88 

Lascelles, Sir Frank ... 179 

Lassus, Orlando di ... ... 322 

Latin Commemoration Service 140 



PAGE 

Laurier, Sir William ... 220 

Lawrence, Lord ... ... 120 

Lay- Vicars ... 73 et seg., 335 
Lay- Vicars' Salaries ... 74 

" Le Bourgeois Gentilhomme " 45 
Leeds Parish Church ... 51 

Leslie, Henry ... ... 29 

Liard, M 269 

Lightfoot, Bishop ... ... 121 

Limpus, R. D. ... ... 251 

Lind, Jenny n, 40, 149, 294 

Lister, Lord ... ... ... 238 

Littleton, Alfred H. 

118, 123, 152, 156, 171, 173 
Littleton, Henry ... ... 277 

Littlington Tower ... ... 67 

Llandaff Cathedral ... 50,247 
Lloyd, Edward ... 10, 233 
Lloyd George ... 244, 246 

Local Examinations ... 41 

Locker, Fredk. ... ... 118 

Lockhart's Picture ... ... 135 

London Academy of Music... 268 
" Lord hath chosen Zion, 

The" 61 

Lord Mayor's Procession, The 272 
Lome, Marquess of ... ... 149 

Lottery Ticket, The ... ... 63 

Louise, Princess ... ... 241 

Lucy, Sir Henry ... ... 347 

Lushington, Henry ... ... 346 

Lyall, Charles ... 276, 280 

M.A. Degree ... ... ... 159 

M.V.0 194 

Maas, Joseph 

13, 14, 29, 37, 127, 278 et seq., 286 
Macdonald, Flora ... ... 320 

Macdonald, Sir John... ... 299 

Macdonnell, Sir Schomberg... 231 
Macfarren, Sir George A. ... 288 

Macfarren, Walter ... 6, 293 
Mackenzie, Sir Alexander C. 

157. 233, 293 

Maclean, Dr. Charles ... 226 

McNaught, Dr. W. G. ... 260 

Macpherson, Charles ... 341 

Madrigal Society, The 101, 140, 257 
Madrigal Society, The Western 145 



INDEX 



359 



Maidstone ... ... ... 14 

" Maidstone " (Hymn-tune) ... 25 
Malibran ... ... ... 291 

Malvolio ... ... ... 45 

Manchester 50 et seq., 290 et seq. 
" Manzoni Requiem " ... 176 

Maryborough, Duke of 225, 257 

Marsham Street 158 

Martin, Sir George C. no, 168, 195 
Mass-Weddings ... ... 57 

Maundy Service, The Royal... 240 
Maurice, Rev. F. D. ... ... 43 

" Me will sing heah" ... 285 

Mears & Stainbank, Messrs. 329 
Mechanics' Institute, Chatham 36 
Memorial Organ ... ... 100 

Memorial Services 138, 173, 175, 
176, 206, 212, 222, 238, 240, 

2 43> 3 
Mendelssohn Choir ... ... 218 

" Messiah " and Additional 
Accompaniments ... ... 274 

Methodist Hymn-Book ... 207 
Miles, head verger ... ... 9 

Milnes, Monckton ... ... 346 

Mirror, Ingenious use of a ... 10 
" Miss Roseleaf's Evening 
Party" ... ... ... 30 

Mitchell, John ... ... 154 

Moliere ... ... ... 45 

Monk, Dr. E. G 61 

Morelli, Cesare ... ... 203 

Morley, Thomas ... ... 322 

" Mors et Vita" 127 

" Morte d' Arthur " 304 

Moulton, Lord ... ... 61 

" Mount Moriah " 140 

Mozart 88 

Muniment Room 89, 214, 309, 330 
Murray, Bishop ... ... 23 

Music and Disease ... ... 103 

Musical Antiquarian Society 268 
Musical Association 142, 288 

Musical Education ... ... 339 

Musical Gestures ... ... 88 

Musical Times, The ... ... 328 

Musicians' Company... 118, 213 
Musicians' Company's Exhi- 
bition ... ... ... 150 



Musicians' Company's Medal 118 
My father ... ... 2, 134, 349 

National Anthem, The ... 134 
National Training School of 

Music ... 83, 253, 256 

Native humour 210, 211 

Neukomm ... ... 200, 327 

New Philharmonic Society, 

The 268 

Newey, Rev. John ... ... 267 

Nicholson, Sydney H. 

290, 291, 328, 346 
"Ninety-five" ... 39,242 

"Nineveh" ... ... 60, 302 

Nixon, Rev. L. H 345 

Nocturne, A. ... ... ... 115 

Nordica, Madame ... ... 135 

Norfolk, Duke of 178 

Norwich Festival ... ... 305 

Notre Dame ... ... ... 125 

Novello, Clara 18 

Novello's 86, 155, 195, 277, 327 

"O God of Bethel" ... 101 

"O sing unto the Lord" ... 12 
Oakeley, Sir Herbert S. ... 66 

Offenbach ... ... ... 45 

" Old Cathedral too earthy 
smell" ... ... ... i 

Olding, Stephen ... ... 146 

Oliphant, Mrs. 45, 50, 122, 139 
Order of the Bath, The ... 238 
Organ blowing ... ... 15 

Organ lessons... ... ... 32 

Organists' Benevolent League 339 
" Oriana, The " ... ... 144 

Osborne, G. A. ... 141, 289 

Ouseley, Sir F. A. Gore 

48 et seq., 59, 288, 299 
Owens College ... 54, 253 

" Paean of Wales, The " ... 245 

Palmer, Mrs 108 

Palmer, Sir Ernest ... ... 257 

Paris, Visits to 124, 125, zbgetseq. 
Parish Church Organists ... 338 
Parnell, C. S. ... ... 114 



360 



A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 



PAGE 

Parratt, Sir Walter 54, 61, 144, 

157, 178, 186, 191, 193, 231, 

233, 294 

Parry, Sir C. Hubert H. 44, 84, 

140, 154, 157, 183, 233, 235, 

289, 293, 324 

Parsons, John ... ... 322 

Passion, Bach's ... 64,72 

Pasteur, L 270 

Paul & Co., Sir John Dean ... 23 
Pearce, Archdeacon ... ... 120 

Pearce, Dr. C. W 152 

Pearson, J. L. ... 67, 157 

Pepys Club 205 

Pepys' Diary... ... ... 202 

Pepys, Samuel ... 88, 266 

Perosi... ... ... ... 163 

Petty, Sir William 265 

" Phantasy," first appearance 

of the word ... ... 120 

Philharmonic Society, New... 268 
Philharmonic Society, Royal 278 

Phillips, Henry 197 

Pichon, M 269 

" Pickwick Papers, The" 2, 36 
Pierne, Gabriel ... ... 271 

Pitt, Percy 162 

Ponsonby, Sir Frederick ... 185 
Portman, Richard ... ... 323 

" Portraits and Souvenirs "... 306 
Potatoes, Dvorak and his ... 123 
Potter, Cipriani ... ... 65 

Pownall, Frank 86 

" Practising Boy " ... ... 4 

Precentors ... 16, 333, 343 

Prince Consort ... ... 253 

Prince of Wales and the 

Abbey Monuments ... 249 

Princess Alexandra, Landing 

of 16 

Prior's Rent Book, The 89, 310 
Private Theatricals ... 7, 45 

Profeit, R. A. 149 

Prothero, Canon 

67, 76, 124, 128, 150 

Prothero, R. E 209 

Prout, Prof. Ebenezer 

254, 262, 275, 289 
" Psalms in HumanLife, The" 209 



Public-School Boys ... ... 115 

Punch, " The London 

Charivari"... ... 146,166 

Pupils, Articled 81 

PurcellClub 268 

" Purcell, Life of " ... ... 159 

Purcell, Henry 

158, 209, 212, 315, 323 et seq. 
Purcell Festival 121, 153, 250 
Purcell Memorial ... ... 157 

Purcell Society ... ... 324 

Purcell Sonatas ... ... 324 

Purcell's Te Deum ... ... 153 

Pye, Kellow J. ... ... 141 

Pyne, Dr. J. Kendrick 290, 291 

Queen Alexandra ... ... 246 

Queen Anne's Bounty ... 158 

Queen Victoria ... 18, 21, 36, 

39, 128, 168, 175, 176, 198 

Queen's College ... ... 48 

Railway Travelling ... ... no 

Randegger, A. 293, 303 et seq. 
Recruiting Bands ... ... 241 

"Redemption, The "... ... 124 

Reeves, Sims... ... ... 29 

Reform Bill, The ... ... 47 

Regalia, Procession of the ... 194 
Regnart, Sir Horace ... 159 

Rehearsals ... ... ... 74 

Reid, Hon. Whitelaw ... 238 

" Remember this " (Anthem) 245 
" Repentance of Nineveh " 60, 302 
Richmond, Sir William ... 328 

Richter 65 

Ries, Louis N. ... ... 252 

Ring & Brymer ... ... 267 

Ringer's Bill, The ... ... 330 

Ripon Cathedral ... ... 6 

Robinson, Dean Armitage 

177, 180, 186, 229 
Robinson, John ... 316, 325 
Rochester Boys as Organists 6 
Rochester Cathedral i, 170 

Rochester Choral Society 10, 85 
"Rock of Ages" 115, 122, 127 
" Rogues or Proctors " ... 26 
Romberg's " Lay of the Bell " 1 1 



INDEX 



361 



PAGE 

Roper, E. S 343 

" Rory O'More " ... 39,242 
Ross, Rev. Duncan ... 100, 102 

Rossall School 61 

Royal Choral Society, The 

44, 1 60 ft seq., 273 
Royal College of Music 83, 252 
Royal College of Organists 

48, 251, 298, 339 

Royal Institution 202 

Royal Society of Musicians 

127, 140, 145 

Ruskin, John 176 

Russell, Henry ... ... 20 

Russell, Lord John 47 

Ryle, Bishop 

78, 176, 229, 234, 240, 348 

Sacred Harmonic Society, The 277 
St. Andrew's, Wells Street ... 15 
St. Ann Fugue ... ... 15 

St. Anne (Hymn-Tune) ... 325 
St. Ann's Lane ... ... 158 

" St. Francis of Assisi " 46, 122 

St. George's Hall 268 

St. George's, Windsor ... 43 

"St. Ludmilla" 123 

St. Margaret's ... ... 136 

St. Mark's School ... ... 43 

St. Paul's Cathedral 19, 168, 203 
St. Peter's, Manchester ... 54 
St. Peter's, Vere Street ... 43 
St. William of Perth ... 2 

Saint-Saens, Dr. C. 

1 88, 270, 271, 306 
Salaman, Charles ... ... 289 

Salisbury, Marquess of ... 206 
"Sally in our Alley" ... 166 

Salmon-fishing ... ... 91 

" Samuel Pepys Lover of 

Music" 88 

Santley, Sir Charles ... 122, 293 

Savage, Captain 40 

Sawyer, Dr. F. J 253 

Scholarships ... ... ... 41 

Schrider, Christopher ... 316 

Scotland ... ... ... 90 

Scott, Dr. ... ... 89, 309 

Scott, Sir Gilbert 57 



293 
68 

247 
26 



Semon, Sir Felix 

Serpentine, The 

Service Lists ... 

" Seven Poor Travellers " 

Shakespeare ... ... ... 245 

Shakespeare's Tenor ... 68 

" She Stoops to Conquer "... 45 

Shepherd, Rev. W 16 

Sheringham, Rev. J. W. ... 38 

Shippen, Dr. E. ... ... 267 

Shippen, Rev. Dr. R. ... 267 

Shooting ... ... ... 92 

Shoreham Church ... ... 126 

Shorne 35> 37 

Silas, Edward ... ... no 

"Sir John Falstaff" Inn ... 36 
"Sit down on him" ... ... 95 

Sladen, Douglas ... ... 242 

Slatin Pasha 112 

Smart, Henry ... 54, 66 

Smart, Sir George ... 178, 196 
Smith, Father ...56,159,314 

Smith, Montem ... ... 128 

Smith, Sydney ... 19 

Snodland ... ... ... 13 

Southgate, Dr. T. Lea 

120, 142, 152, 220, 242, 289 
Spectacles ... ... ... 5 

Special Services ... ... 243 

S.P.G 158 

Spohr ... ... ... ... 268 

Stainer, Jack ... ... ... 93 

Stainer, Sir John 48, 66, 83, 86, 

118, 159, 171, 254, 258, 260, 262, 

288, 341 

Stamf ordham, Lord . . . ... 241 

" Stand to your guns " ... 29 
Stanford, Sir Charles V. 

84, 138, 157, 233 
Stanley, Dean 

2, 64, 66, 71, 72, 76, 121, 127, 139 
Stanley, Lady Augusta 66, 82, 121 
Stephens, Charles E. ... 278 

Stevens, Dean ... ... 23 

Stevens, R. J. S 267 

Stewart, General Herbert ... 225 
Stewart, Sir Robert P. ... 54 

Stingo 45 

Stocks, Bass singer ... ... 57 



36: 



A WESTMINSTER PILGRIM 



Stone, Dr. W. H 

Storm in a tea-cup ... 

Street, Edward 

Street, G. E. (architect) 

" Stretto maestrale "... 

Strong, Dr. T. B. 

Strood Church 

Subscription Concerts, 

Rochester ... 
Suffield, Lord 
Sullivan, Sir Arthur 

19. 5. 8 3> 143. 2 54. 257 
Ta ta, not Um ta 



2/9 

141 

121 

49 
114 

38 



34 1 

... 39 

... 142 

45 

... 265 

... 321 

... 268 

... 36 



Tallis's Motett 

Tarver, Frank 

Taverner, John 

Taylor, John ... 

Taylor, Prof. Edward 

Tchaikovsky ... 

Teck, Duchess of ... ... 173 

Temple, Archbishop... ... 193 

Tenbury ... ... ... 59 

Tennyson, Hallam 117, 126, 148 
Tennyson, Lord ... 117, 148 
" That old music chap at St. 

Paul's" ... ... ...in 

" That 's a beauty "... ... 18 

" The Bleeding Nun" ... 27 
"The Brook" ... ... 13 

"The Goose" ... ... 117 

The Mirror ... ... ... 69 

"The Wolf" 59 

" Thou art gone from my 

gaze" 31 

" Three blind mice " ... 122 

Thynne, Lord John... ... 12 

Thynne, Miss Joan ... ... 214 

" To what base uses" ... 68 

"Toby, M.P. " 347 

" Too much pudd'n " ... 9 

" Touching up the old 'un "... 276 
Trench, Archbishop ... ... 127 

Trinity Church, Windsor ... 46 
Trinity College, London 

195, 258, 342 

" Triumphs of Or iana, The"... 144 
Troutbeck, Rev. Dr. 

64, 65, 102, 344 



imvjrc, 

Trustcott, Sir George ... 272 

Tufton Street ... ... 158 

Turle, James 42, 65, 67, 70, 

71, 78, 102, 124, 200, 295, 327 

Turle, Robert (Armagh) ... 70 
Turnpike-keeper, The ... 14 
Turpin, Dr. E. H. ... 252, 289 
Tye, Dr. Christopher ... 101 
Tyndall, Prof 83 

University of London 195, 269 

University of Paris 269 

University of Toronto ... 219 
University Professors ... 6 
" Unto Thee have I cried "... 34 

Vacuum cleaner, The ... 191 

Vansittart and Vyse (M.P.'s) 47 
Vauxhall Gardens ... ... 277 

Verdi, Giuseppe ... ... 65 

Victoria, Queen ...18, 21, 36, 39, 
83, 128, 168, 175, 176, 198 

Vidal, Paul 271 

Visetti, Albert ... 83,254 

"Vivats,"The 182,190,193,231 

Vogt, Dr 218 

Volunteer Band, The ... 38 

Volunteer Review ... ... 39 

" Vote for Roger " ... ... 47 

Waiter correspondent ... 166 

Wager, A lost ... ... 99 

Wagner ... ... ... 65 

Wallakirk 104 

Warwick, Thomas ... ... 323 

Water Organ... ... ... 151 

Waterloo Veteran, A ... 21 

Watson, William 85 

Watts's Charity ... ... 26 

Wax effigies ... ... ... 75 

"Wax paint" ... ... 56 

Welldon, Bishop 55, 177, 289 
Wellington's Funeral, Duke of 

I, 2, 21 

Welsh Service ... ... 244 

Wesley Commemoration 224, 226 
Wesley, John ... ... 209 

Wesley Mementoes ... ... 224 

Wesley, Rev. Charles ... 225 



INDEX 



363 



PAGE 

Wesley, S. S 40, 51, 267 

Wesley's Cathedral Anthems 

16, 227 
Wesley's " The Wilderness " 

221, 267 
Westcott, Bishop ... ... 126 

Western Madrigal Society,The 145 
Westminster Abbey ... ... 64 

Westminster Abbey Chant 

Book ... ... ... 327 

Westminster Abbey Hymn- 

Book ... ... 102, 149 

Westminster Abbey Organ 

126, 308 

Westminster Abbey Organists 319 
" Westminster Bridge " ... 175 
Westminster, Duke of ... 175 
" Westminster " (Hymn-Tune) 327 
Westminster Scholars and 

the "Vivats" 182, 190, 193,231 
Wheatley, Dr. ... ... 202 

Whist... ... ... ... 70 

Whistler, J. A. McN. ...281 

Whiston, Mr 24 

Whitt, Master ... ... 321 

Whytt, Robert 321 



PAGE 

Wilberforce, Canon ... ... 158 

"William Tell" 65 

Williams (a Chorister) n, 12 

Williams, George Ebenezer 

320, 326, 327 
Williams, Lieut. Albert ... 243 

Wilson, Dr 68 

Wilson, Jack 68 

Wilson (Manchester) ... 343 

Winchester, Bishop of 170, 178 
Windsor ... ... ... 43 

Winter, W. J. ... ... 343 

Wolfe Monument ... ... 300 

Wood, Ralph ... ... 277 

Wood, Reginald N 278 

Worcester Festival 60, 121, 302 
" Would be " Cooper ... 35 

Wright, C. (Clerk of the 

Works) 158 

Wylde, Dr. Henry 268 



" You are an ass " . 
Young, Filson 
Young Recruit, The 
" Your father sings " 



82 

290 

39 

3 






PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



ML Bridge, (Sir) Frederick 

410 A Westminster pilgrim 

B847A3 
1919 



Music 



