


ififlME 

BRM91 






University of California Berkeley 

SIDNEY HOWARD COLLECTION 

Gift of 
The Family of Sidney Howard 





M^\\ 










3* ** 

t^E^; 

Tf- r . t -<^ * 



M 




I 















flui fljCpto f f 









f 

rlUA 






\ 



ru 
* 











0tt&k4t 

W^ 



,. 
.JU 






9* 






\J\ 



/l* 

l . 









- 

it. 






/ 



; - 






r* ^M_ 








7. H. 



.' 

iO 







^ JL 



<//afc^ 









r. 










: 



ELLY 



x 

/ / -v^" // 






REMINISCENCES 

OF 

MICHAEL KELLY, 

OF THE 

KING'S THEATRE, 

AND 

"HEATRE ROYAL DRURY LANE, 

INCLUDING 

A PERIOD OF NEARLY HALF A CENTURY; 

WITH 

ORIGINAL ANECDOTES 

OF 

MANY DISTINGUISHED PERSONS. 

POLITICAL, LITERARY, AND MUSICAL: 
SECOND EDITION. 

IN TWO VOLUMES, 
VOL. I. 



LONDON: 
HENRY COLBURN, NEW BURLINGTON STREET, 

1826. 



LONDON : 
PRINTED BY T. BRETTKLL, RUPERT STREET, HAYMARKET. 



TO THE KING. 



SIRE, 

I MOST RESPECTFULLY, AND DUTIFULLY, 

LAY AT THE FEET OF MY SOVEREIGN THE MEMOIRS OF 
A LIFE WHICH HAS DERIVED ITS HAPPIEST, AS WELL AS 
PROUDEST PASSAGES, FROM HIS ROYAL CONDESCENSION 
AND PATRONAGE. 

YOUR MAJESTY RULES OVER MILLIONS OF 
AFFECTIONATE SUBJECTS, ALL BOUND TO BLESS YOUR 
ILLUSTRIOUS NAME FOR BENEFITS, EITHER CONFERRED 
OR SECURED; BUT, OUT OF THAT MULTITUDE, NOT 
ONE HEART CAN BEAT WITH A MORE FERVENT SENSE 
OF OBLIGATION, THAN THAT OF THE VERY HUMBLE 
INDIVIDUAL WHO HAS BEEN GRACIOUSLY PERMITTED, 
THUS PUBLICLY TO SUBSCRIBE HIMSELF, 

YOUR MAJESTY'S 

EVER GRATEFUL, AND DUTIFUL 

SUBJECT AND SERVANT, 

MICHAEL KELLY. 



CONTENTS 



OF 



THE FIRST VOLUME. 



THE Author's birth and parentage. The commencement 
of his musical studies at the age of seven years. His 
first singing-masters, Passerini and Peretti. Kane 
O'Hara's puppet-show. State of Music in Dublin, 
about the year 1777. Independence of Fischer, the 
celebrated oboe player. Doctor Arne, the Cramers, 
Tenducci, Leoni, and Rauzzini. Doctor Arne ruined 
by his predilection for alchymy. Italian Opera in 
Dublin. Kelly's first appearance on the stage. Miss 
Brent, the original " Mandane," in " Artaxerxes." 

Page 119 

Departure of the Author for Naples. The vessel 
boarded by an American privateer. Arrival at Naples. 
Amusements during quarantine. Neapolitan hair- 
dresser. Mass at the church of San Giacomo. 
Father Dolphin. Sir William, and the first Lady 
Hamilton, and their musical parties. Neapolitan 
Dinner. Portici, Herculaneum, and Mount Vesuvius. 
Pergolesi. French hair-dresser turned hermit. 

Page 1934 

A3 



Yl CONTENTS. 

Visits to Baja, Posilipo, the Grotta del Cane, and ti. 
Capo del Monte. The Lazzaroni. Biting the thumb. 
Lord Tylney, Lord Bristol, Bishop of Derry, and 
other English of quality at Naples. Kelly placed 
under Finaroli, in his musical Conservatorio. Mar- 
chesi, Ansani, and Macherini, " La cantante con la 
parruca" Magnificence of the ballets at San Carlo, 
under Le Pique and Rossi. The celebrated Cassa- 
ciello, at the Teatro Nuovo. Description of the 
Theatres at Naples. Jean Cole, the famous Pulcinella. 
The Author patronised by the great Neapolitan 
families. Introduction to Cimarosa. Page 34 50 

Interview with the King and Queen of Naples. Anec- 
dotes of those distinguished personages. Terrific 
eruption of Vesuvius, in 1 779. The Lazzaroni suppli- 
cate their Saint, St. Gennaro. Father Rocco's facetious 
impiety. Superb annual procession of the King, 
Queen,, and Court, to La Madonna del Pie di Grotta. 
Arrival of the peasantry from Abruzzo, Calabria, 
and Apulia, to celebrate La Festa della Nouvena. 
Dedication of the young and beautiful daughter of 
the Duke de Monteleone. Cafarelli, the celebrated 
soprano Page 50 61 

Kelly's visit to Rome, with Mr. Stewart and family. 
Terracina. Arrival in Rome. Piazza di Spagna. 
Motley population and diversions in the Corso. The 
Roman Theatres. Unceremonious critics in the pit. 



CONTENTS. Vll 

i 

Ludicrous anecdotes of Cimarosa and Poggi, the 
buffo-singer. St. Peter's. The houses of Raphael, 
Salvator Rosa, and Gaspar Poussin. Pat O'Flanagan 
and Cardinal York. The village of Frascati, the 
scene of Paesiello's comic opera, " La Frascatana." 

Page 6170 

Return of the Author to Naples. Pachierotti and 
the beautiful Marchesa Santa Marca. Rencounter 
between the former and II Cavaliere Ruffo, a lover 
of the Marchesa. The Author's first acquaintance 
with Aprile, under whom he afterwards studied. 
Gaeta. Musical festival there. Luxury of the Monks 
of Abruzzo. Failure of the miracle of St. Gennaro. 
Kelly and his music-master set sail for Palermo. 
Their reception by the Duke and Duchess St. 
Michele, and the Prince Val Guarniera. Climate 
of Sicily. Sicilian ladies. Musical quarrel between 
Aprile and Signora Carara. Sicilian suppers. Mon- 
strous taste of the Prince B in the furniture of 

his house. Catania. Mount Etna. Annual festival 
of Santa Rosalia. Jealousy of the Sicilians. The 
Author in prison. Anecdotes of Signora Gabriella. 
Kelly leaves Sicily Page 70 94 

Arrival of the Author in the Bay of Leghorn. Anecdotes 
of Stephen and Nancy Storace. Lucca. Pisa. Intro- 
duction of Kelly to Viganoni. The festival of the 
Battle of the Bridge at Pisa. The felon, Giuseppe 



V1U CONTENTS. 

Afrissa. Contest of ugliness between Soderini and 
Favar. Arrival at Florence, and engagement to 
perform there at the Teatro Nuovo. Lord Cowper, 
Sir Horace Mann, Mr. Merry, the Delia Cruscan, 
and Nardini, the great violinist. The Devil's Sonata. 
Anecdotes of Morigi, the primo-buffo. Kelly's first 
appearance on the stage at Florence, before the 
Pretender. Anecdote of Morelli, the well-known 
bass-singer ......... Page 94 111 

Florence and its vicinity. Singular festival at Forligani, 
in honour of Santa Massinina. Beauty of the women 
at Sienna. The Author's departure from Florence, 
on his way to Venice. The Apennines. Bologna la 
Grassa. Kelly, and his Holiness the Pope, divide the 
public attention. Theatre at Bologna. The Author 

s leaves Bologna, in company with the beautiful Signora 
Palmini. Ferrara. Anecdote of Ariosto. 

Page 



Arrival at Venice, where the Author, disappointed of 
his engagement, was left friendless and pennyless. 
Venetian theatres. Bertoni, Rubinelli, and Banti. 
Concerts at the female Conservatories. Singular 
method adopted by the audiences at Venice of ex- 
pressing approbation. Anecdote of the Venetian 
police. Venetian women. Adventure with a sharper. 
Introduction to La Signora Benini. Change in the 
Author's affairs ....... Page 122 140 



CONTENTS. IX 

Departure of the Author, and Signor and Signora 
Benini, from Venice for Germany. Arrival at Gratz. 
Generals Dillon, Dalton, and Kavanagh. Frolics of 
the Germans at the carnival at Gratz. Gretry's 
opera of " Selima and Azor." The Author compelled 
to return to Italy. Phlegmatic German postillion. 
Abominable roads. Anecdote of Voltaire. Palma 
Nuova. Padua. Guadagni's company of puppets, 
performing "L'Orfeo e Euridice." Mass, composed 
by II Padre Valotti, at the Church II Santo. Kelly 
arrives again at Venice. The Gondoliers. 

Page 140151 

Procession of the Doge to St. Marc's in Passion- week. 
The fair of the Ascension. Magnificent ceremony 
of the marriage of the Doge to the sea. Conver- 
saziones at Venice. Anecdotes of Sacchi, the speaking 
harlequin. Dramatic pieces of Gozzi and Goldoni* 
Exorbitant demand of a singer ; the biter bit. Di- 
versions at Padua. Crescentini, and David, the well- 
known tenor-singer. The Author's arrival at Brescia. 
His escape from the assassins of II Cavaliere Manuel, 
who was jealous of his intimacy with La Bella 
Ortabella. Arrival at Verona, . . Page 151 170 

Introduction of the Author to the Marquess and Mar- 
chioness Bevi Acqua. Plays in the Amphitheatre of 
Verona. Concerts at the prison, by the gaoler and his 
family. Kelly's concert at Verona. Vicenza. Tre- 



X CONTENTS. 

viso. House of the late Mrs. Billington at Treviso. 
The celebrated dilettante singer, La Signora Teresa 
de Petris, and her Cavalier servente. An old 
acquaintance at Modena. Ancient custom of em- 
ploying carrier-pigeons. Ducal palace at Modena. 
Arrival at Parma. Introduction to the Archduchess. 
Concert at her palace. The Author and Her Royal 
Highness at billiards. Anecdotes o the Archduke. 

Page 170 185 

Grand Theatre at Parma. Jomelli's mass at the theatre. 
Madame Storace at the Theatre St. Samuel, at Venice. 
Martini, the composer. The Carnival at Venice. 
Anfossi's Oratorio. The Austrian Ambassador en- 
gages Kelly for the comic opera at the court of 
Vienna. The late Emperor of Germany, and the 
French Comedians. Author's arrival at Vienna. 
Introduction to Salieri. Vienna and its environs. 
Intrusion of a wild boar upon the musical consulta- 
tions of Salieri and the Author. Marshals Lacy and 
Laudon. Anecdote of Frederick the Great. 

Page 185201 

Carnival at Vienna. Procession of Sledges. The late 
Emperor's mode of living. Evening visits to his 
favourites, the Princesses Lichtenstein, Schwartzen- 
berg, Lokowitz, and the Countess Thoun. Prince 
Kaunitz. The present Emperor Francis. Anec- 
dotes of Schroeder and Brockman, the celebrated 







CONTENTS. XI 

German actors. Madame Sacqui and Mademoiselle 
Jacquet, in tragedy; and Madame Ademberger in 
comedy Page 201 217 

Visit to the great Haydn, at Eisenstadt. The English 
Song of " Tally ho !" before the Emperor, to the 
great alarm of the German ladies. Introduction to 
Kozeluch, Vanhall, the Baron Dittersdorf, and the 
illustrious Mozart. Anecdotes of the latter. Att- 
wood, Mozart's favourite scholar. Marchesi, the 
singer. Giornovick and Janewitz, the violinists. 
Baron Bach. Marriage of Nancy Storace. Separa- 
tion between her and her husband. Proprietors of 
Covent Garden Theatre Page 21 7 230 

His Royal Highness the Duke of York at Vienna. The 
Abbe da Ponte. The " Comedy of Errors" produced 
as an opera, under the title of " The Equivoci," at 
Vienna, with Stephen Storace's music. Arrival at 
Vienna of Paesiello, and L'Abbate Casti, the poet. 
Introduction of the former to Mozart. Interview of 
Casti and Paesiello with the Emperor. Casti's new 
opera, with Paesiello's music. Quartett performed by 
Haydn (first violin) ; Dittersdorf (second) ; Mozart 
(tenor) ; and Vanhall (bass) ; Casti and Paesiello 
being of the party. The Author's successful mimicry. 
Galas at Vienna and Schoenbrunn. The son of 

Prince P apprehended for forgery. 

Page 230242 



CONTENTS. 

Palace at Luxemburgh. Sumptuous treatment of the 
performers in the Italian opera at the palace. Si- 
gnora Storace and the Emperor. Condescension of 
His Majesty towards the Author. Prince Ponia- 
towski. Kelly's dress publicly criticised at Vienna 
by an Irishman and his English companion. The 
eccentric walking Stewart. A German blue-stocking. 
Mrs. Piozzi. Extravagant pay of Madame Bas- 
tardini at the Pantheon in London. Gluck's " Iphi- 
genia and Alceste." Gluck's adoration of Handel. 
Paesiello's " Barbiere di Siviglia." Contest between 
Regini, Salieri, and Mozart. Triumph of the latter. 

Page 242255 

First performance of the " Nozze di Figaro." The Author 
the only survivor of all the original performers in that 
exquisite opera. Enthusiastic applause of the au- 
dience in the presence of Mozart. Mr. Linley and 
Mr. Sheridan offer to treat with the Author for an 
engagement at Drury Lane. English at Vienna: 
Lord Belgrave, and his tutor, Mr. GifFord; Lords 
Bernard, Dungarvan, De Clifford, and Carberry ; 
Earl of Crawford ; Sir John Sebright ; Col. Lennox, 
Sic. &c. Anecdote of George the First. Horse- 
racing, under the direction of the English Gentlemen, 
who rode their own matches. . . Page 255 262 

The Author entreats leave of the Emperor to go 
to England. Condescension and kindness of His 



CONTENTS. Xlll 

Majesty. Kelly relieved from his losses at play by 
Nancy Storace. Waylaid by two German noblemen, 
who were jealous of the Author and the Countess of 

S . The art of lamp-smashing introduced by 

the English bucks at Vienna. Adventure of Stephen 
Storace at a ball. The Author takes leave of Mozart, 
and, with the Storaces, and Attwood, departs for 
England Page 262 274 

A German journey. Mozart's father, and Haydn's 
brother. Saltzbourg. Concert at the Archbishop's 
palace. Gallantry of his Holiness. Munich. The 
Author's and Mr. Attwood's foot-race in the gardens 
of the Niemptenburg palace. Raff, the celebrated 
tenor-singer. Concert at Munich. Frantzl, the 
eminent violinist. Augsburg. Dancing-ladies. Sun- 
day-evening balls. The Author's adventure in the 
Black Forest, in company with Attwood and Stephen 
Storace Page 274 281 

Italian opera at Stutgard. Cafarelli, Jomelli, Hasse, 
and Graun. Splendour of the ballets, under the cele- 
brated Noverre. The elder Vestris. Le Pique 
and Duberval. Concert at Strasbourg. Introduc- 
tion to Pleyel. Madame Dugazzon, the French 
actress and comic singer. Town of Nancy. Arrival 
at Paris Page 281 284 

Faubourg St. Germain. Versailles. Chaste salute of 

TOL. I. b 



XIV CONTENTS. 

the dames de la hallc. Theatres at Paris. Splendid 
performance of Gluck's " Iphigenia." Sacchini's 
(Edipe. Cheron, the bass-singer. Madame St. Auberti. 
French Comedy. Clairval in Gre try's " Richard 
Cceur de Lion." Boulogne. Dover. Arrival in 
. London, in 1787. Introduction to Mr. Linley and 
his accomplished daughters, Mrs. Sheridan and Mrs. 
Tickell. John Kemble's singing in " Richard Coeur 
de Lion!" Mrs. Jordan and Mrs. Crouch. Ora- 
torios at Drury Lane. Madame Mara. The Au- 
thor's unlucky opinion. His first appearance in 
Lionel and Clarissa Page 284 292 

Jack Johnstone and Mrs. Billington, in "Love in a Vil- 
lage." Jack Long, the eccentric Irishman. A guinea 
put up to auction. The Rev. Father O'Leary and 
whisky punch. John Philpot Curran. O'Leary and 
Dr. Johnson. First appearance of Storace at the 
Opera House, in Paesiello's " Schiavi per Amore." 
Commemoration of Handel. Madame Mara's sub- 
lime singing Page 292 290 

Fine taste of his late Majesty, in a suggestion as to the 
manner of performing the chorus, " Lift up your 
heads." The Author and Mrs. Crouch leave Lon- 
don for Dublin. Their warm reception at the theatre. 
Holman, the actor. The " Masque of Comus." Mrs. 
Crouch in Euphrosyne. Introduction of Martini's 
Italian duet, adapted to the words, " Oh, thou wert 



CONTENTS. XV 

born to please me." Great popularity of the air. 
Departure from Dublin for York. Page 299 303 

Introduction to Tate Wilkinson. Anecdotes of that 
eccentric individual. Winter campaign at old Drury. 
Revival of " Selima and Azor." The Author's adven- 
ture with two young ladies. The late Mr. Cobb and 
Pilon, the French poet. Anecdotes of Parsons, the 
comedian. The Author resigns his situation in the 
Italian Opera of the Emperor of Germany. Madame 
Mara, and Monsieur Ponte, the French-horn player. 
Reconciliation between the Author and Madame Mara. 
The Opera House destroyed by fire. Page 303 316 

Shakspeare's Jubilee. Miss Pope, and the awkward 
dramatic amateur. Revival of " The Tempest," with 
Purcell's music. First performance of" The Haunted 
Tower." The author engaged at the Ancient Concerts. 
Harrison, the well-known tenor singer. The laughing 
song in " L'Allegro." Irish wit. Anecdotes of John 
Palmer. Musical Festival at Norwich. Quarrel 
between Giornovick and Shaw, the leader at Drury 
Lane. " No Song, no Supper," performed for the 
first time for the Author's benefit. Page 316329 

First year of George Colmasi the Younger 's manage- 
ment at the Haymarket. Death of Edwin. Beard, 
the English tenor singer. Concert at Cannons, for 
the benefit of the poor at Stanmore. Col. O'Kclly, 



XVI CONTENTS. 

Superfluous vocal question by Madame Mara. Charles 
Bannister and Robin Hood. Margate. The Author, 
Mrs. Crouch, and Johnstone, exert themseves to serve 
an unfortunate and .destitute young woman. The 
sharper outwitted. Bannister's imitation of Captain 
Barnes, an eccentric Irishman. . . Page 329 337 

\ 

Mrs. Siddons at Calais. Irish brigade at Lisle. Mili- 
tary ardour of Sir Watkin Lewes. The Chevalier 
St. George. John Kemble. Cambray. Chantilly. 
Taris. Revolutionary orator, in the person of the 
Author's valet. Unlucky head-dress of Mrs. Crouch 
at the grand opera. La Rive, the celebrated French 
actor. Dick England and Viper Jackson at Paris. 
The National Assembly. Gretry's opera, " La 
Caravane." " Blue Beard," in Paris, and at Co vent 
Garden. Return to England. . . Page 337 349 



ERRATUM. 

Page 110, line 21; for natural daughter,'* read " wife." 



REMINISCENCES 



OF 



MICHAEL KELLY. 



THE following Memoirs of an active life have 
been thrown together, somewhat in the manner of 
a journal ; incidents are recorded as they occurred, 
scenes are retraced which have long since passed, 
and characters recalled to literary life which have 
long quitted this sublunary stage. I aim at nothing 
but setting down facts as I remember them ; and 
thus deprecating the severity of criticism by a 
candid avowal of my object, proceed, without fur- 
ther preface or apology, to my narrative. 

I was born in Dublin. My father, Thomas 
Kelly, at the period of my birth, was Master of the 
Ceremonies at the Castle, and a wine merchant of 
considerable reputation in Mary Street. He was 

VOL. i. B 



2 REMINISCENCES OF 

known for bis elegant and graceful deportment, 
and no lady would be presented at tbe Irish Court, 
who had not previously had the advantage of his 
tuition. My mother's name was M'Cabe ; she was 
of a very respectable family in the county of West- 
meath. At a very early age, she was placed for 
education in a Roman Catholic convent on Arran 
Quay. My father (who was of the same religious 
persuasion,) having a young relation placed also at 
this convent; when visiting her, had many opportu- 
nities of seeing Miss M'Cabe, and the results of 

o 

those meetings were, a mutual attachment, an 
elopement, and a marriage. Her father, who was 
extravagantly fond of her, soon pardoned the run- 
aways, and, as a proof of the sincerity of his for- 
giveness, added to it oJP.SjOOO, which was considered 
no mean fortune in those days ! 

My father and mother were both excessively fond 
of music, and considered to sing with taste: all 
their children (fourteen in number) evinced musical 
capabilities, and I, the eldest of the family, was, 
at three years old, daily placed with the wine on 
the table, to howl Hawthorn's song in Love in a 
Village, " There was a Jolly Miller, 1 ' for the enter- 
tainment of my father's company ; for company, 
unfortunately for his family, he had every day; 
and no man in the city, so justly renowned for 
hospitality, gave better dinners or better wine. 






MICHAEL KELLY. 3 

At the age of seven I began to learn music. 
My first master's name was Morland ; he was the 
very prototype of his namesake the painter ; a 
wonderful genius. But dissipation was his idol, 
and he who might have selected the very best 
society, preferred that of the lowest orders. He 
was continually in a state of whiskey-punch intoxi- 
cation. He would sleep all day in a cellar, and I 
have often heard him say, somewhat nationally, 
that his morning began at eleven oVlock at night / 

His first visit was generally to our house, for he 
was partial to my father, or rather to his currant 
whiskey, and so anxious was my father that I 
should receive instruction from him, that I have 
been kept up till one o'clock in the morning on the 
mere chance of getting a lesson. My improvement 
under him was rapid, and before I had attained my 
ninth year, I could execute with precision and neat- 
ness Schobert's Sonatas, which were then all the 
fashion. I also possessed a soprano voice, on which 
my father was determined to bestow every possible 
cultivation. My first singing masters were Signor 
Passerini, a native of Bologna, and Signor Peretti, 
who was a vero mu&ico. He was the original 
Artaxerxes when the opera of that name was 
first performed at Covent Garden ; he taught me 
the beautiful air, " In infancy our hopes and fears, 1 ' 
which was composed for him, and it made an 



4 REMINISCENCES OF 

impression on my mind never to be forgotten. He 
had a fine contre altro voice, and possessed the true 
portamento so little known in the present day. He 
also taught me the song of Arbaces, " Amid a 
thousand racking woes," which I executed with 
the greatest facility : but the songs which delighted 
me most were, " Oh too lovely, too unkind," and 
" Oh, why is death for ever late ?" I never sang 
those without tears. Another great favourite of 
mine was that in Lionel and Clarissa, composed by 
Galupi. By the way, all the Lionels of the present 
day think proper to omit that fine song ; perhaps 
they are right, and for the reason once given to 
me by an Irish post-boy, whom I was scolding 
fgr not driving faster ; he turned round, and ex- 
claimed, " By Jasus, master, it is not an easy thing 
to work hard."" 

I was sent, with my brother Patrick, to the best 
academy in Dublin, kept by Doctor Burke, a cler- 
gyman of the Church of England. He was a worthy 
man, and considered an excellent scholar. His 
daughter was one of the first piano-Jforte players 
of the day. The late Mr. Francis Goold, and Mr. 
Thomas Goold his brother, the Irish barrister, were 
on the same form with me. At a beautiful villa, 
which their accomplished father had near Dublin, I 
frequently spent the vacations with them. Mr. 
Goold was an excellent judge of music, of which 



MICHAEL KELLY. 5 

he was very fond, and all the men of genius then 
in Ireland used to meet at his house on Sundays. 
Kane CVHara, the ingenious author of Midas, had 
a puppet-show for the amusement of his friends ; 
it was worked by a young man of the name of Nick 
Marsh, who sang for Midas and Pan. He was 
a fellow of infinite humour ; his parody on " Shep- 
herds, I have lost my love," was equal to any 
thing written by the well-known Captain Morris ; 
and with many others of equal merit, will be long 
remembered for the rich vein of humour which 
characterises it. The love of company, joined to 
a weak constitution, condemned this truly original 
genius to an early grave, regretted by all who knew 
him. In the performance of this fantoccini I sang 
the part of Daphne, and was instructed by the 
author himself ; the others were by other amateurs. 
It was quite the rage with all the people of fashion, 
who crowded nigbtly to see the gratuitous per- 
formance. 

About this time I changed my singing-master, 
and was placed under Signor St. Giorgio, who was 
engaged at the Rotunda ; his voice was not power- 
ful, but he possessed exquisite taste. He was an 
honest man, and married a widow with large pro- 
perty, previously to which, he, Signor Carnevali, 
Signor Micheli, and Signor Sensi, got a ^.30,000 
prize in the lottery, a piece of good fortune of which 



6 REMINISCENCES OF 

lie was very deserving, and I believe is still living 
to enjoy. gninno'hoq lo 'iijonoff 

Trifling occurrences during childhood often in- 
fluence our future lives. I recollect once, when 
returning from a visit to a relation of my mother's, 
I saw Signor St. Giorgio enter a fruit-shop ; he pro- 
ceeded to eat peaches and nectarines, and at last 
took a pine apple, and deliberately sliced and ate 
that. This completed my longing, and while my 
mouth watered, I asked myself why, if I assiduously 
studied music, I should not be able to earn money 
enough to lounge about in fruit-shops, and eat 
peaches and pine apples, as well as Signor St. 
Giorgio. I answered myself by promising that I 
would study hard; and I really did so; and, 
trifling as this little anecdote may appear, I firmly 
believe it was the chief cause of my serious reso- 
lution to follow up music as a profession ; for my 
father had other views for me. His intention was to 
place me under Surgeon Neale, one of his oldest 
and most intimate friends, who, independently of 
his profession, ranked as one of the first violin 
players of his time ; he had a most powerful hand, 
and his tone, expression, and taste, nothing could 
surpass. 

His celebrity for playing Correlli's and Gemi- 
niani's music was so great that, singular to say, 
in the year 1787 he was commanded by King 



MICHAEL KELLY. 7 

George III. to go to London, where he had the 
honour of performing before His Majesty several 
times, and His Majesty expressed the greatest 
approbation of his extraordinary powers. He was 
a constant visitor at our house, and took great pains 
with me, particularly in the song of " Prudente mi 
chiedi," in Metastasio's opera of II Demofoonte, 
which was composed by Vento, and sung by the 
famous Mansoli, at the King's Theatre many years 
before*. 

Dublin, in those days, had to boast of much 
musical excellence. The greatest performers in 
Europe, who came to London, were engaged there 
in the summer season by the governors of the 
principal charities, who were also managers of the 
Rotunda Concerts. I can remember at different 
times that Mr. and Mrs. Barthelemon, (Barthele- 
mon was a fine performer of the old school, on 
the violin,) Le Vacher, Pepe, La Motte, Cramer, 

* When I was first at Florence, I had the gratification of 
hearing that great and celebrated performer sing it, which he 
did at the particular request of Signer Veroli and myself. I 
also sang it to him with the English words, " Oh, talk not to 
me of the wealth she possesses," and he seemed much pleased. 
Having returned to Italy with a princely fortune, Mansoli pur- 
chased an estate within a few miles of Florence, where I dined 
with him : he spoke of England with admiration, and expressed 
great gratitude for the attention and applause he received at the 
Opera House, and in concerts. 



8 REMINISCENCES OF 

Salomon, Pinto, and alt the most celebrated violinists 
of the day; not forgetting two Irishmen, honest 
Sam Lee (father to Mr. Lee, who now keeps a 
music-shop in Dublin,) and Mr. Mountain, who 
also kept a music-shop, and was an excellent violin 
player, and a very worthy man*. 

They also brought Ritter, the finest bassoon 
player I ever heard; Crosdil, on the violoncello, 
who was unrivalled on that instrument, and is still 
alive and merry; and though last, not least, 
Fischer, the great oboe player, whose minuet was 
then all the rage ; he was a man of singular 
disposition, and great professional pride. Being 
very much pressed by a nobleman to sup with 
him after the opera, he declined the invitation, 
saying, that he was usually very much fatigued, 
and made it a rule never to go out after the 
evening's performance. The noble lord would, 
however, take no denial, and assured Fischer 

* Mr. Mountain, who formerly led the Covent Garden Band, 
and at present leads that of the English Opera with so much 
ability, is a son of this gentleman. His wife, Mrs. Mountain, 
was for many years a principal singer at Covent Garden and 
Drury Lane, where she was deservedly a great favourite. Mrs. 
Billington was an ardent admirer of hers, and spoke of her 
talents with unfeigned praise. She has retired from the stage, I 
sincerely hope with competence and happiness. A son of Mr. 
and Mrs. Mountain is in the service of Government, in the 
Admiralty. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 9 

that he did not ask him professionally, but merely 
for the gratification of his society and conversa- 
tion. Thus urged and encouraged, he went; he 
had not, however, been many minutes in the 
house of this consistent nobleman, before his 
lordship approached him, and said, " I hope, 
Mr. Fischer, you have brought your oboe in 
your pocket." " No, my Lord," said Fischer, 
" my oboe never sups." He turned on his heel, 
and instantly left the house, and no persuasion 
could ever induce him to return to it. 

The singers, or, as they are now called, vocalists, 
at these concerts were numerous ; among them 
were a Miss Jameson, a pupil of Doctor Arne, who 
sung " The Soldier tired" with much applause; 
and Mrs. Cramer, (first wife of the celebrated 
leader, and mother of John Cramer and F. Cramer, 
the esteemed successor of his father, celebrated for 
his performance on the piano-forte, and compositions 
for that instrument ;) a beautiful woman, a charm- 
ing singer, and a distinguished professional favourite 
of Tenducci, Leoni, and Rauzzini. 

Speaking of Signor Rauzzini, whose name is 
familiar to all who have lived in the musical 
world, it may not perhaps be considered irrelevant 
to say a few words of his early career. He was a 
native of Rome, and made his first appearance on 
the stage there, at the Teatro della Valle. He 

B 5 



10 REMINISCENCES OF 

was a great musician, had a fine voice, was very 
young, and so proverbially handsome, that he 
always performed the part of the Prima Donna; 
at that period no woman was permitted to appear 
on the stage at Rome*. His reception was highly 
flattering, and he afterwards performed in all 
the principal theatres in Italy. The Elector of 
Bavaria, who expended immense sums on liis 
Italian opera, invited him to Munich. His success 
at that court was, as usual, unqualified. But, alas ! 
his beauty was his bane ! an exalted personage 
became deeply and hopelessly enamoured of him,, 
and, spite of his talents, it was suggested to him 
that a change of air would be for the benefit of 
his health. He took the hint, and left Munich : 
he then engaged himself at the Italian opera in 
London, where he attained the highest reputation 
both as a singer and composer ; and his acting 
in Pyramus, in the opera of Pyramus and Thisbe, 
was so fine, that Garrick has often complimented 
him on it. 

I was now taking lessons from Doctor Cogan*)- on 
the piano-forte. His execution on that instrument 

* The present Pope has, I perceive, issued a veto against the 
performance of women on the stage, to take eflect after the 1st 
of January, 1826. 

t Doctor Cogan is still living in Dublin ; he has good health 
and independence, and is an hospitable worthy fellow, highly 
esteemed by all his connexions. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 11 

was astonishing, and his compositions, although 
not generally known in this country, possess great 
merit. The whole phalanx of musical talent which 
I have mentioned, frequently visited at my father's 
house, and I was so fortunate as to be taken great 
notice of by Rauzzini, during his stay in Dublin' 
He gave me lessons, and taught me several songs, 
particularly that beautiful air of his own, which he 
sang divinely, " Fuggiam da questo loco, in piena 
liberta," 'which the late Mr. Linley introduced into 
the Duenna, with Mr. Sheridan's words, " By him 
we love offended."" 

Rauzzini was so kind to me, and so pleased with 
the ardent feeling I evinced for music, that, pre- 
viously to his leaving Ireland, he called upon my 
father, and said, " My dear Sir, depend upon it 
your son will never follow any profession but that 
of a musician; and as there is no person in this 
country who can give him the instruction he 
requires, you ought to send him to Italy. He is 
now at the time of life to imbibe true taste, and 
in Italy only is it to be found. If you send him 
to Rome, let him study under Latilla ; if to 
Naples (the better place of the two) send him to 
either of the Conservatorios ; the head master at 
St. Onofrio is Monopoli* ; at the other, La Madonna 

* Monopoli was a sound musician ; his church music was 
in great repute iii Italy. Stephen Storace was one of his 
favourite pupils. 



REMINISCENCES OF 

di Loreto, Finaroli is master. This celebrated 
Conservatorio produced Scarlatti, Duranti, Por- 
pora, (at that time the greatest of all singing 
masters,) Pergolesi, Jomelli, Cimarosa, Paesiello, 
and a long list of celebrated men: let him go 
there, and depend upon it he will one day repay 
you for it." 

This advice made a deep impression on my 
father, particularly as a similar opinion had been 
given by Sir William, then Mr. Parsons, the late 
musical composer and magistrate of Bow Street, 
who had studied music in Italy, and was, at the 
time I speak of, in Ireland on a visit to his friend 
and patron, Mr. Henery. 

My father consulted my mother, who would not 
hear of such a proposal. She had but a few months 
before parted with my brother Patrick, for whom 
my father had procured a cadetship in India and 
I cannot but think of my mother's kind feelings 
towards me, with affection and gratitude as for 
my brother, poor fellow, we never saw him more. 
He was esteemed a brave soldier ; and was much 
beloved for his goodness of heart and companion- 
able qualities, for he sang sweetly, and with great 
taste ; but poor Patrick was cut off in the flower 
of his youth, he was killed at the storming of 
Seringapatam, when a captain in the East India 
Company's service. 



MICHAEL KELLY. IS 

About the period at which Rauzzini gave my 
father the advice I have mentioned, Mr. Ryder, the 
comedian, brought over a singer, of the name of 
Webster, to Smock Alley Theatre ; with him came 
a lady whom he called his wife, but who was really 
the wife of Battershill, a musical composer, from 
whom she had eloped with Webster. She was a 
fine-looking woman, and played Lucy, in the 
Beggar's Opera, and Jenny, in Lionel and Clarissa ; 
but however, charming as she was, she soon left 
Webster, and Mrs. Baddely came to supply her place. 

My father had a private box at the theatre, 
and my mother, passionately fond of theatricals 
herself, often took me to the play. From the 
time I first saw him act, nothing ran in my head 
but Webster, unless, indeed, it was the desire of 
going on the stage. I used to look at him with 
wonder, when he was performing M acheath ; and 
those who recollect him in that character will agree 
with me that it certainly was a masterly performance. 
He had a fine figure, with a marked and rather 
handsome countenance; his voice was a fine baritone, 
with a sweet falsetto, of which, being a good 
musician, he made a judicious use, particularly in 
" The Charge is prepared;" indeed, I think it 
impossible that his performance of this character 
can be surpassed. Whatever little credit and indul- 
gence I received when I performed Macheath, at 



14 REMINISCENCES OF 

Drury Lane, I owe in a great measure to my 
recollection of him in the part; and I avow the 
same obligation to his Lionel, which was a chef- 
fceuvre. 

About the time of which I am now speaking, a 
third theatre sprang up in Fishamble Street, under 
the Lord Mayor's licence; the managers were 
Vandermere and Waddy, who had deserted from 
Smock Alley, and taken with them a large portion 
of the company. To oppose them, Ryder brought 
over Michael Arne to produce Cymon : his wife 
performed in it, and it brought great houses. Eut 
Arne, not content with being one of the greatest 
musical geniuses the world ever produced, wished 
also to possess the philosopher's stone ; and, fancying 
himself a great alchymist, actually took a house at 
Richmond, near Dublin, and, neglecting all his 
pupils, gave himself up to a scientific search after 
gold. The consequences were ruin and a spunging- 
house. He was under articles to compose an opera 
for Covent Garden ; and my father, knowing this, 
sent him in his confinement, a piano-forte, supplied 
him with wine, &c. and while in " durance vile," he 
composed some beautiful music. In return for this 
kindness, he gave me a lesson every day, and, after 
his release, continued particularly attentive to me. 

It was also about this period that a Portuguese, 
who called himself II Cavaliero Don Pedro Martini, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 15 

came to Dublin : he played the Spanish guitar 
delightfully, and succeeded in ingratiating himself 
with the Duke of Leinster, Earl of Westmeath, 
Lord Belmont, and most of the leading people. He 
persuaded them that Dublin and Edinburgh were 
the only capitals where there was not an Italian opera, 
and proposed to engage Smock Alley Theatre, and 
bring a comic Italian company, to give operas twice 
a week. He consulted my father on the subject, 
who, conceiving the scheme likely to succeed, gave 
him encouragement, and promised him all the assist- 
ance in his power. 

The Portuguese procured a large subscription, 
took the theatre, and brought over the company, 
amongst whom were La Sestini, the best buffo of the 
day, Signer Pinetti, a Venetian, a most excellent 
actor, Signor Fochetti, a powerful primo buffo, with 
a fine bass voice ; Signers Savoy, Peretti, &c. &c. 
and a second and third woman. Signor St. Giorgio 
conducted at the piano-forte, and Signor Georgi led 
the band, which was strengthened by many per- 
formers from London. The etiquette was, that the 
band in the orchestra, as well as the company in the 
boxes and pit, should be fully dressed. Bags and 
swords were then the order of the day : the prices 
were, boxes and pit, half-a-guinea ; first gallery, 
five shillings ; and the upper one, three shillings. 

The first opera was L* Isola d' Alcina, composed 

2 



16 REMINISCENCES OF 

by Gazzaniga; there was some beautiful music 
in it. Pinetti, who in Italy was celebrated for 
his performance of French characters, played the 
Frenchman in the opera admirably. 

The next opera was Paesiello's La Frascatana ; 
the houses were unusually crowded. La Buona 
Figliuola, PicewTs popular opera, was put into 
rehearsal at the express desire of some of the old 
conoscenti who had seen it performed in London. 
Lovatino was the cavalier, (and I am informed, 
never was equalled in singing " E pur bella e la 
Cecchina ;"") Morigi, the German soldier ; Micheli, 
the gardener ; Savoy, the Count ; La Samperini, 
Cecchina, Sec. Sec. 

Expectation was on tiptoe to hear this opera in 
Dublin, as it had been quite the rage in London ; 
when a circumstance occurred which threatened its 
being laid aside ; namely, the severe illness of 
Signor Savoy, who was to have performed the 
Count, a part of the greatest importance to the 
opera, and written for a high soprano voice. As 
there was no professional man to do it, the Por- 
tuguese turned his thoughts towards me, and offer- 
ed my father his own terms, for I was well versed 
in the Italian language. He was backed in his 
application by the Duke of Leinster, Mr. Conolly 
of Castle Town, and several others, who were ever 
kind and partial to me. They all seemed to feel 



MICHAEL KELLY. 17 

assured that if I undertook the part, I should gain 
both credit and emolument. This induced my poor 
father to listen to them ; particularly, as he had 
made up his mind to send me to Naples, and was 
actually in treaty with the captain of a Swedish 
vessel, bound thither, to take me as a passenger. 

I was delighted when I found that I was to per- 
form on the Italian stage, and counted every tedious 
moment while studying the part. At length, how- 
ever, the awful night arrived ! The house was 
crowded, and I received great applause. I had a 
powerful treble voice, pronounced Italian well, and 
was tall for my age, and acquitted myself beyond 
the most sanguine expectations of my friends. The 
opinion the foreign musical men gave of my abilities, 
of course, weighed greatly in my favour. 

A circumstance now took place, which had nearly 
terminated my theatrical career. II Cavaliero Por- 
tuguese, who had given the company to understand 
that he had all Peru and Mexico at his com- 
mand, turned out to be a needy Chevalier d'ln- 
dustrie, and would not pay them. They all struck ; 
" point "d'argent, point de Suisse," was their motto. 
Pinetti, when he found he could get no money, 
set off for England with Fochetti, and without those 
two principals, it was impossible to get up an opera ; 
so the rest of the Italians followed their leaders, 
dispersing, some to England, others to Scotland, 
&c. &c. 



18 REMINISCENCES OF 

Ryder, who then had Crow Street Theatre, had 
entered into a fresh engagement with Michael Arne 
for three nights, to revive Cymon. Mrs. Arhe 
(his second wife,) was a sweet singer, and being 
also a very pretty, petite figure, was very popular 
in Silvia*. They thought that I might be an ad- 
ditional attraction, and proposed to my father that 
I should play Cymon the three nights, and choose 
any character I pleased for the fourth, which should 
be given to me free of all expense, as a remuneration. 

My father considered very wisely that, as every 
thing was arranged for my voyage to Naples, it was 
as well for me, or rather for him, (for / thought .of 
nothing but the rapture of again shewing myself on 

the stage,) to accept the proposal. 

v r i r a 

I played Cymon three nights, and on the fourth, 

Lionel, (or, properly speaking, Master Lionel,) for 

I. 

* The first wife of Michael Arne was a scholar of Doctor 
Arne's, at the same time with Miss Brent, for whom the Doctor 
composed the character of Mandane, in Artaxerxes. It is said 
that Doctor Arne translated Artaxerxes from the Italian of 
Metastasio into English ; if he did, it was highly to his credit, for 
some of the thoughts are rendered beautifully ; one for instance, 
from Mandane ; in the Italian it is, 

" Si piange di placer come d' affanno." 
which is translated thus, 

" Pleasure maj start a tear as well as grief." 

. 

Dibdin composed his Leonora in the Padlock for the first Mr&. 
Arae, when Miss Wright. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 19 

my own benefit. The house was crowded in every 
part. I was successful in my songs, and acted the 
part decently, recollecting well all the points Web- 
ster had given in it*. 

is! On the first of May, 1779, with an aching heart, 
I parted with my father, mother, and family, and 
sailed on board a Swedish merchantman, accom- 
panied by a young Irishman, intended for the 
Roman Catholic church ; and with a fair wind, left 
the kind and hospitable shores of my native 
country, and I may safely say, quitted it with no 
little fame; for although not fifteen, I had earned 

* The opera was cast thus : 



Lionel, Master KELLY, 

(Being tbe last night of his appearing on the stage previous to 
his going to Italy.) 

Sir John Flowerdale, . . Mr. HEAPHY. 
Jessamy, Mr. O'KEEFE, 

(The celebrated dramatic writer.) 

Harman, Mr. GLENVILLE. 

Colonel Oldboy, . . . Mr. WILDER. 

Jenkins, Mr. BARRETT. 

Lady Oldboy, ; . . . Mrs. HEAPHY. 

Diana, Miss JAMESON. 

Jenny, Miss TISDAL. 

Clarissa, Mrs. ARXE. 

The Band : At the piano-forte, Michael A me ; Leader, the 
celebrated Pinto. First oboe, Mr. Bartlett Cooke, father to my 
friend, Mr. T. Cooke, of Drury Lane Theatre, whom I greatly 
esteem for his private worth, and high and diversified talents, 



20 REMINISCENCES OF 

sufficient money to pay for my voyage to Italy, 
and for my maintenance and musical education for 
some time after my arrival there. 

I was so fortunate as to have letters of recom- 
mendation to Sir William Hamilton, at that 
time English charge d'affaires at the Court of 
Naples, and to Father Dolphin, a Dominican 
friar, who was to be my " guardian, protector, 
and guide." 

As good piano-fortes were in those times scarce 
every where in Italy particularly, my father 
bought a grand one, made by one of the first Lon- 
don makers, which turned out in every respect 
excellent, and which, with a few books, English 
and Italian, he gave me. My mother furnished me 
with plenty of good sea store, ten guineas in my 
pocket, arid a gold watch. I had besides, a letter 
of credit, which I was to deliver to Father Dolphin, 
who had instructions to pay my allowance according 
to circumstances. 

The following occurrence which took place 
during my voyage, I would omit, if it could 
not be well authenticated both in Naples and 
Dublin. 

My father had a small country house near 
Drumcondra, with an extensive garden; his gar- 
dener, whose name was Cunningham, had a son, a 
very fine young man, who was a great favourite 



MICHAEL KELLY. 



with all the family, and received many marks of 
kindness from my father, which he repaid to me 
when a child, by continued acts of affection. Poor 
Jack, however, degenerated, became a drunkard, 
associated with depraved companions, and left my 
father's service ; shortly after, he was implicated 
in a burglary, tried, and transported to America. 
This made a grievous impression on me at the time, 
as I recollected, with gratitude, the apples and 
plums which had been gathered for me by poor 
Jack Cunningham. 

My voyage took place during the American war, 
but the ship I was on board of, being a Swede, was 
under a neutral flag ; yet, in the Bay of Biscay we 
were hailed by an American privateer. Our cap- 
tain lay to, while a set of the greatest ragamuffins 
my eyes ever beheld, boarded us. They swore the 
vessel was under false colours, and proceeded to 
overhaul the captain's papers, and seize every thing 
they could, lay hands on. A sturdy ruffian began 
to break open my piano-forte case with a hatchet, 
which, when I saw, I manfully began to weep, 
and cry out, " Oh ! my dear piano-forte," &c. &c. 
The cabin boy, who was about my own age, called 
out, " For God's sake, don't cry, MASTER KELLY." 
The chief mate of the privateer, who was quietly 
perusing some of our Captain's papers, on hearing 
these words, turned round, and looking stedfastly 



REMINISCENCES OF 

at me, said, "Is your name Kelly ?" I answered 
u Yes/' Do you know any thing of a Mr. Thomas 
Kelly, of Mary Street, Dublin?" said he." He is 
my father," was my reply. The young man imme- 
diately started up, ran to me, clasped me in his 
arms, and with tears in his eyes, said, " Don't you 
remember me? I am Jack Cunningham, who, 
when you were a little boy, nursed you and played 
with you." He seemed quite overcome by the un- 
expected meeting, and made the most affectionate 
inquiries about my family, when, after examination, 
the Captain finding that our vessel was really a 
neutral, left us. Jack again embracing and blessing 
me, took leave of me, and we soon lost sight of 
them. I never heard of him more. The next 
day we were boarded and examined by an English 
sloop of war, and our Captain gave information of 
the route of the American, which I honestly con- 
fess, if I had fancied it could have hurt poor 
Jack Cunningham, I should have been mightily 
sorry for. 

To those whose health would be benefited by 
sea-sickness, I can safely recommend the ungentle 
exercise of the Bay of Biscay ; there is little chance 
of failure. After we left it, however, we had very 
fine weather for some time, and the islands of Mi- 
norca, Majorca, and the coast of Africa, though at 
a great distance, were noble objects. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 23 

When we had passed the Island of Ischia, we 
encountered a tremendous storm : actually alarmed 
by , the violence of the tempest and appearance of 
the sea, which ran mountains high, I retired to my 
cot, and spite of terror and sea-sickness, fell fast 
asleep. I was awakened by the cabin-boy on the 
following morning, the 30th of May, 1779, who, to 
my great joy, told me that we were in the Bay of 
Naples. 

The astonishment and delight I experienced when 
I got on deck, can never be effaced from my recol- 
lection. The morning was beautiful ; I was restored 
to health, and safe in the wished-for port. 

The Bay, full of shipping, the Island of Caprea 
where Augustus and Tiberius once held their revels ; 
to the West the Isles of Procida, and Ischia, the 
picturesque and varied scenery of Pozzuoli, Posi- 
lipo, so celebrated for La Grotta del Cane and 
Virgil's Tomb, the King's Palace at Portici, the 
Campagna Felice, the Castle and Fort of St. Elmo *, 

1 QHll !\J * 1 



* The Castle of St. Elmo is the strongest fortification the 
Neapolitans have. It stands on an eminence, said to command 
the finest view in the world ; near it, lower down, stands the 
Carthusian convent of St. Martino. The fraternity are supposed 
to be very rich, and are celebrated for the excellence of their 
gastronomy. Their confectionary, wines, and dinners, are of the 
first order, but only to be got at by a card of admission from the 
Prime Minister ; this is delivered to a lay brother, who shew* 



REMINISCENCES OF 

the terrific Vesuvius, the delightful coast of Ta- 
rentum, the Castel a Mare, and the City of Naples, 
with its numerous palaces and convents, have 
beauties far, far beyond my feeble powers of de- 
scription. 

Before we entered the Mole, the officers of health 
came on board, and gave us the pleasant informa- 
tion, that as there was a report that the plague was 
raging on the African coast, we must perform qua- 
rantine before we were suffered to land. 

An old tatterdemallion was put on board our 
vessel, to prevent our escaping to the shore : he 

the bearer the chapel and all that is curious, after which, he is 
invited to an excellent repast, for which they are forbidden to 
receive any remuneration. 

In consequence of the great height of the Castle of St. Elmo, 
vessels can be distinguished at an immense distance. This is 
rendered of great utility to the mercantile part of the commu- 
nity, by means of signals made, according to the custom of all 
sea-ports, from the Castle on the approach of any vessel ; these 
signals consist of balls of great size, projected into the air, the 
number of which signifies the description of vessel ; whether 
frigate, sloop of war, merchantman, &c. c. at the same time 
the colour of the nation to which she belongs is hoisted. Thus, 
a merchant, while transacting business in any part of Naples, 
may know what ships, and of what nations, are entering the 
Bay, long before they reach the Mole. The first object of my 
attention every morning, was the signal station, and my first walk 
was on the Mole. The sight of an English vessel was a reward 
for days of watching. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 25 

was an inexhaustible source of amusement to me ; 
for although his clothes were all in tatters and 
patches, and spoke " variety of wretchedness," he 
wore his hair in an enormous bag, and carried a 
tremendously long sword by his side, of which I 
now almost wonder he did not give me a taste ; 
for, if the truth must be told, I was very mis- 
chievous, and he, a particularly good subject for my 
mirth. 

When Father Dolphin heard of my arrival, he 
came alongside, accompanied by another Friar, and 
a Mr. Fleming, a cadet in the Irish brigade, a 
worthy good Irishman. He was my daily visitor ; 
and, what with the wines which we purchased from 
the boatmen, the delicious fruits, and good society, 
our bondage was not altogether unpleasant. Added 
to all the other agremens, was the beautiful pros- 
pect around us ; alongside of us was a Venetian 
vessel also under quarantine, on board of which 
were several Italian singers, dancers, &c. on their 
way to the theatre at Palermo, and two brothers, 
very fine French horn players ; besides many other 
passengers. In the evening they danced or sang 
on deck, and played duets on the French horns, 
while the Mole was crowded with all ranks of 
people to enjoy the sea breeze ; so that the whole 
scene was delightful. 

At length the time of our release arrived ; and 

VOL. i. c 



J2 REMINISCENCES OF 

my friend, accompanied by another Irish gentle- 
man, called Plunket, also a cadet in the Irish 
brigade, (in one of the regiments of which his elder 
brother was Colonel,) took me on shore to an hotel 
near the Largo di Castello, kept by an Irish woman, 
married to a Neapolitan, an egregious rogue, but 
who possessed the pleasing art of speaking English 
very well. 

I ordered a hair-dresser, at that period an indis- 
pensable appendage to a man's establishment ; and 
shortly a very well-dressed person, with his hair 
in a bag, and a sword by his side, entered my 
room ; on inquiring his business, he informed me 
he was the barber, come according to orders, to 
adorn me alia moda di Napoli. I at first felt 
abashed at the idea of employing so fine a gentle- 
man in such a capacity, but I soon became recon- 
ciled to the national gaiety ; for the very beggars, 
with hardly any clothes to their backs, had ragged 
bags tied on their hair. 

Accompanied by Fleming and Plunket, I went 
to hear mass at the church of San Giacomo, and 
after this, made my first visit to the worthy Father 
Dolphin. He was prior of the Convent of St. 
Dominick, a fine pile of building, close to the gate 
through which runs the road to Capua, and also 
to the Conservatory of La Madonna di Loreto. 

I found him in his study, which opened into a 

2 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

spacious garden, and everything around him breathed 
piety, benevolence, and content ; he was about 
seventy years old, but full of health and ac- 
tivity. 

He received me with the greatest kindness, and 
after reading my letter of credit, introduced me 
to two Friars of his order; one of them, called 
Plunket, whom I often see in London even now ; 
the other, named M'Mahon, whom I saw the last 
time I was in Dublin, at the Friary in Denmark 
Street ; they were both Irishmen, as I need hardly 
mention, considering their names. 

The first advice the Father gave me, after taking 
some chocolate and snow water, was to present 
rny letter to Sir William Hamilton, and to make 
up my mind in which Conservatorio I should like 
to be placed. He gave me the choice of three, 
St. Onofrio, La Pieta, or La Madonna di Loreto. 
At St. Onofrio, Signor Monopoli was the head 
master; at La Pieta, Signor Sala, who had never 
produced a melody worth hearing, though the first 
counterpointist of the day ; and at La Madonna di 
Loreto, Finaroli, a first-rate composer of church 
music. He had also written several serious operas ; 
and several great composers were his scholars, 
amongst them was Cimarosa. 

Having heard Rauzzini speak of him as a 
great master, I gave the latter the preference ; but 



REMINISCENCES OF 



Father Dolphin desired me to ask the opinion of 
Sir William Hamilton, and be guided by it. 

I immediately waited on Sir William, and pre- 
sented my letters; when he had read them, he 
received me most kindly, and assured me that he 
should be happy to give me any advice as to the 
line I ought to pursue, and render me every service 
in his power. 

Sir William having invited me to dinner that 
day, I returned, and was introduced to the first 
Lady Hamilton. The taste and partiality for music 
of this highly-gifted person, are too well known 
to need a remark from me. At that period she 
frequently gave concerts, to which all the best per- 
formers were invited. She was herself considered 
the finest piano-forte player in Italy. 

After dinner, at which I had the honour of being 
introduced to the late Duke of Bedford, there was 
music. The celebrated Millico accompanied him- 
self on the harp in the charming canzonetta, " Ho 
sparse tante lagrime ;" his singing was enchanting. 
I was asked, and sang Rauzzini's song, " Fuggiam 
da questo loco," and " Water parted from the sea," 
accompanying myself on the piano-forte. I seemed 
to give general satisfaction, and Signer Millico, in 
particular, said many kind things. He told me he 
had often heard Tenducci sing " Water parted, 1 " 
in England. Signer Borghi, who was afterwards 



MICHAEL KELLY". 29 

stage-manager at the Pantheon, when the Opera 
House was burned down, had just arrived from 
England, and was also of the party*. 

At parting, Sir William desired me to call upon 
him at eight o'clock the following morning ; I did 
not, however, arrive till a quarter before nine. On 
entering the breakfast room, I found with him 
Mr. Drummond, his physician, and a couple of 
antiquaries; his table was covered with cameos, 
intaglios, and lava. As soon as I entered the apart- 
ment, he said, " My good boy, you were to have 
been here at eight : it is now three quarters of an 
hour past ;" and added, looking very seriously at 
me, " if you do not learn to keep time, you will 
never be a good musician." Through life, I have 
recollected that hint. 

When we were alone, he desired me to give 
him a candid detail of my views and intended 
pursuits, and which way my own inclinations lay. 
I told him all the circumstances which had preceded 
my leaving Ireland, and that my father's wish and 
intention were, that when I had finished the study 
of composition in Naples, I should return to 
England, and become a composer and teacher. 
I also told him that I feared the profession, 

* The operas at the Pantheon were conducted by the Dufcje of 
Bedford, Lord Salisbury, and Mr. William Sheldon, an eminent 
solicitor, and a worthy man. 



30 REMINISCENCES OF 

towards which my own inclinations strongly led, 
the stage, would be my father's aversion. With 
respect to money, I informed him that my annual 
allowance, while pursuing my studies, was to be 
two hundred Neapolitan ounces, (80Z. English) to 
be paid monthly by Father Dolphin. 

When we spoke of musio, I mentioned my wish, 
that Finaroli should be my master ; he said, " My 
good lad, it is impossible to choose a more able 
instructor, or a better man. I know him intimately, 
and will introduce you to him,, and recommend 
you to his care; but when you begin, you must 
bear in mind that nothing is to be done without 
steady application : your inclination for the stage 
you must smother for the present; your youth, 
and the unsettled state of your voice, should pre- 
clude all thoughts of that ; a year or two may do 
much for you." 

" However," he continued, " as it is natural for 
you to wish to see the sights of Naples, take a 
fortnight's pleasure. Your friend Fleming is a 
worthy man; he speaks the language, and knows 
where every thing remarkable is to be seen, and no 
doubt will take care of you. Give my compliments 
to the worthy prior, and ask his permission; and 
recollect, as Gay says, ' to-day for pleasure, to- 
morrow for business; 1 when once we begin, we 
must work hard." 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

He shook me by the hand, and saying, " be 
prudent," gave me a purse of twenty ounces, to 
pay, as he said, for my calashes. 

I repeated this conversation to Father Dolphin, 
who entirely approved of Sir William's advice ; 
and giving his consent for a fortnight's pleasure, 
with his blessing and best wishes, advanced me 
six ounces, which he thought an ample disburse- 
ment for my menus-plaisirs during that period. 
Mr, Fleming consented to accompany me in my 
rambles, and I was as happy as an emperor. 

To commence; we dined at the St. Carlino 
tavern, opposite the King's palace; we had an 
excellent dinner of maccaroni stufato, bouilli, 
stewed veal, fried calamara*, a roasted chicken, 
salad, cheese, fruit, biscuits, two bottles of wine, 
a cup of coffee each, and a glass of chasse caffe, 
with iced lemonade, &c. for eigh teen-pence each. 

M\J * 

* The Calaraara, or Ink Fish, is as great a favourite with the 
Neapolitans, as it was with the ancient Romans. An Italian 
told me that he had once eaten it many years before at Brighton ; 
I was for several seasons inquiring for it there in vain. At 
length an old fisherman brought me one ; even he had never 
heard of its being eaten, or eatable, for when caught there 
it is always thrown away. It is quite black, but when washed, 
near a pint of ink comes from it, and it appears like snow ; 
when fried, it eats like a veal cutlet, and is a great luxury. 
On the 25th of September, 1819, I had one, and my friends, 
who partook of it, said it was delicious. 



32 REMINISCENCES OF 

But as George Colman says in his Mountaineers, 
" Those days are past, JFloranthe." If they were 
not, what a delicious place of residence would 
Naples be for my old friend Pope, who joins to his 
talents as an artist and an actor, a share of judgment, 
experience, and taste in culinary matters almost 
unequalled. 

The next morning we went to Portici, and slept. 
We saw the theatre at Herculaneum, which had 
been buried sixteen centuries ; and passed under 
vaults to view it by torch-light ; while wandering 
about the galleries, I was of course obliged to 
express surprise and pleasure ; but in truth I washed 
myself away, for there were neither singers nor 
dancers, nor pretty women there, and I never had 
any taste for antiques. 

We returned to sleep at Portici; the next 
morning, we had an excellent breakfast of ham, 
fresh figs, and a bottle of lagrima Christi *. After 
discussing which, Fleming and myself mounted our 
donkies, and, accompanied by our guides, began 
the ascent of Mount Vesuvius. We passed through 
fields covered with fig and mulberry trees, and our 

* As I was brought up a rigid Roman Catholic, I was shocked 
at the name given to this delicious wine ; but in time my scruples 
were overcome, and now often take a bottle with my esteemed 
friend, Mr. Savory, of Bond Street, who has some of a superior 
flavour, imported by himself from Naples. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

guide pointed out the favorite retreat of Pergolesi, 
the great composer. Here he was said to indulge 
his fatal tendency to melancholy ; yet, perhaps, had 
he not been of that melancholy temperature, he 
would not have composed his celebrated " Stabat 
Mater dolorosa," or his intermezzo, " La Serva 
Padrona," both of which I heard with such delight 
at Naples. 

He died at the early age of twenty-seven ; it was 
supposed by poison, given by a brother composer, 
jealous of his transcendent talents *. - 

We had some conversation with the hermit who 
lived on the mountain ; he was a Frenchman, and 
said to have been formerly a hair-dresser in 
London ; whether this be fact or not, I cannot 
say ; the subject was much too delicate to touch 

* I never heard the following truly poetic lines, written by 
Mr. Rogers, author of the Pleasures of Memory, set to music 
and sung with exquisite pathos by my ever.lamented friend 
Mrs. Crouch, without thinking of poor Pergolesi's untimely 
death. 

" Go, you may call it madness, folly, 
You cannot chase my gloom away. 
There's such a charm in melancholy, 
I would not, if I could, be gay. 

" Ah ! did you know what pensive pleasure 
Rends my bosom when I sigh, 
You would not rob me of a treasure 
Monarchs are too poor to buy." 

c 5 



34 REMINISCENCES OF 

upon with a recluse in such a situation. The 
mountain seemed in a most villainous humour, 
emitting flames and large bodies of lava. I soon 
had enough of it, and was right glad to find myself 
once more at Portici, with a supper of red mullet, 
&c. before me : the next morning we returned to 
Naples. 

The two following days we dedicated to Baja, 
and its burning sands. The view of Naples, and 
indeed every thing except the people, was luxurious 
and beautiful ;-*-they were wretched. One miserable 
object pointed out the different situations of the 
villas of Caesar, Mark Antony, and Cicero. All 
this was, I knew, very fine, and very classical ; but 
to me, at that period, a complete bore : it was not 
my gusto to " shun the busy haunts of men," nor 
of women ; and a petticoat in a populous street in 
Naples, was to me the finest sight in the world; 
but I had no wish to accomplish the Neapolitan 
proverb, Vedi Napoli e poi mori * ; i. e. see 
Naples, and then die. 

This Neapolitan saying has two meanings attached to it : 
" Vedi Napoli e poi mori," 
" See Naples, and then die." 

Again, 

" Vedi Napoli e poi Mori," 
" See Naples, and then Mori." 

Mori is the name of a little island near Naples ; which island 
the Neapolitans think so beautiful that no place after it is worth 
viewing. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 35 

Our next visit was to Posilipo, and the Grotta 
del Cane. The Grotta di Posilipo, which leads 
to it, is so dark, that even by daylight, torches are 
necessary ; the peasantry, when driving their cattle 
through this subterraneous passage, which they are 
obliged to do when going to or leaving Naples, call 
out to each other, " Keep to the rock side," or 
" Keep to the sea side," to avoid coming in contact. 

We ascended the mountain of Posilipo, and 
entered Virgil's tomb ; saw the stoves, the sulphu- 
reous vapours of which rise from the earth, and are 
so hot that eggs may be boiled in them. 

At a little distance from the stoves is the Grotta 
del Cane ; the keeper of the dog, who is the great 
actor of the scene, orders the poor animal to lie 
down in the cave ; the vapour acts upon it almost 
instantaneously ; the body swells, the creature falls 
into strong convulsions, and after a violent struggle, 
appears dead. The keeper then draws him out 
into the open air, which speedily restores him, and 
he very wisely takes to his heels. This ]*altry and 
cruel experiment astonished me exceedingly at the 
time. 

We now went to the Capo del Monte, and 
dined there with a friend of Fleming's. We were 
told that the king's intaglios and cameos were kept 
there ; our host shewed us some fine pictures, by 
Schidoni (a pupil of Correggio). His passion and 



36 REMINISCENCES OF 

forte were to paint the Lazzaroni, who swarm 
about the Chiaja and Santa Lucia, and the Largo 
di Castello. They are a fine hardy race of men, and 
it is calculated, amount to fifty thousand. It can- 
not be ascertained how the greater number of them 
find subsistence, as those who work at all will 
only do so to earn as much as will keep them from 
starving. With scarcely any covering, they sleep 
on the steps of the church doors, or in the street. 
Their favourite spot, however, is the Largo di 
Castello ; there they literally swarm, and pass the 
whole day playing the game of mora ; or, by way 
of variety, listening to some ragged fellow near the 
Mole, who recites lively stories from Boccaccio, in 
the Neapolitan jargon, and perhaps sings the verses 
of Tasso, or Ariosto, or details the feats of Masa- 
niello, the rebel fisherman. 

All the time he exhibits, they sit round him with 
fixed and mute attention. I have myself often 
stopped to listen to the half-naked improvvisatore, 
and have been delighted by his dry humour and 
inimitable gesticulation. After entertaining them 
for hours, he thinks himself repaid amply, when 
they give him a coin called a callo (about half a 
farthing) each*. 

The game of mora is played by two persons ; they both hold 
their right hands, with their fingers extended, then each 



MICHAEL KELLY. 37 

The Lazzaroni are dreadful thieves; but theft 
they mildly denominate sleight of hand. I once 
saw one of them pick a gentleman^s pocket of a 
handkerchief at one end of the Largo di Castello, 
and offer it to him for sale at the other ; yet had the 
pillaged man, or any other person, spoken, or even 
made a motion expressive of displeasure at the bare- 
faced infamy of the action, it is a thousand to one 
but that he would have been stillettoed on the spot. 
They are indeed such a formidable and united body, 
that the King himself finds it politic to persuade 
them that he feels flattered by being called their 
captain. 

It is remarkable, that notwithstanding the vices 
of these people, and the extraordinary cheapness 
of wines in Naples, I never, during my sojourn 
there, witnessed a single instance of intoxica- 
tion*. 

contracts one, or as many of his lingers as he likes, calling out 
at the same time the number which he guesses will be the 
amount of his own and his adversary's contracted fingers, 
this they both do at the same moment, and very quick ; who- 
ever guesses rightly, scores one, which is done by holding out 
one finger of the left hand ; the game may be five or ten, or more 
as agreed upon. 

* The Neapolitans in general hold drunkenness in abhorrence. 
A story is told there of a nobleman, who, having murdered another 
in a fit of jealousy, was condemned to death. His life was of- 
fered to him on the sole condition of his saying, that when lie 



38 REMINISCENCES OF 

The Neapolitans are proverbial for their gesti- 
culation : if you ask a man in the street what 
o'clock it is, he looks at the sun, and by his fingers 
makes you understand the hour, but does not con- 
descend to speak. The natives of every part of 
Italy are perfect mimics ; and the strongest indi- 
cation of either menace or revenge you can receive 
from an Italian, is to see him bite his thumb at 
you. Our immortal Shakspeare was well aware 
of this, when he wrote the quarrelling scene be- 
tween the servants in the tragedy of Romeo and 
Juliet; there, Gregory, Capulet's servant, says, " I 
will bite my thumb at him ; which is a disgrace to 
them if they will bear it." 

Malone, the commentator, says, that this mode of 
quarrelling appears to have been common in England 
in our author's time ; as Decker, describing the 
various groupes that daily frequented the walks 
of St. Paul's Church, says, " What shouldering, 
what jostling, what jeering, what bitings of thumbs, 
to beget quarrelling ;" yet I think it but fair, to 

committed the deed, he was intoxicated. He received the 
offer with disdain, and exclaimed, "I would rather suffer a 
thousand deaths than bring eternal disgrace on my family, by 
confessing the disgraceful crime of intoxication !" He persisted, 
and was executed ! 

What a pity this poor fellow had not lived a few years hi 
England or Ireland we manage those matters better ! 



MICHAEL KELLY. 39 

suppose that Shakspeare knew it was also an action 
adopted to " beget quarrels,"" in Verona, where the 
scene of the play lies, otherwise the coincidence 
would be remarkable. 

Another trait of national character, which Shaks- 
peare has ably displayed, is in the Merchant of 
Venice. In former times, as in the present, a Nea- 
politan nobleman was extremely proud of his horses, 
and made them the principal topic of his discourse. 
In the scene where Nerissa recounts the names of 
her various suitors to Portia, she says, " First, 
there is the Neapolitan prince ;" Portia replies, 
" Ay, that's a colt indeed, he doth nothing but 
talk of his horses." 

The mode of living of the Neapolitans at first 
was disagreeable to me. They are very early 
risers; and at noon flock to the coffee houses, 
shops, promenades, Sec. ; the streets are crowded 
with monfcs, abbes, mountebanks, and lawyers *. 
Twelve o'clock is their usual hour for dinner, after 
which they take the siesta, rising usually an hour 
or two before sunset, and repairing again to the 
coffee houses to eat ice, which is in Italy beyond 

* It is calculated that in the kingdom of Naples only, there 
are twenty thousand lawyers, most of them younger branches 
of the nobility, whom poverty condemns to the bar. There U 
no nation, however large, in which so jmany lawsuits are car- 
ried on. 



40 REMINISCENCES OF 

conception fine. Their chocolate, melons, grapes, 
peaches, &c. are delicious ; my favourite was the 
harlequin, which is a mixture of all, served up in a 
silver cup, piled like a pagoda, which cost then only 
twopence English. 

Even the Lazzaroni have their cooling luxuries ; 
at the corner of every street, there are stalls, 
belonging to venders of water melons, iced and 
lemonade water, crying out, " Bella cosa e T acqua 
fresca! 1 ' (What a beautiful thing is fresh water). 
For a novo callo (half a farthing), a man, at the 
time I am speaking of, could get a large glass of 
iced water, with the juice of a lemon, and a slice 
of water melon in it. 

The favourite drives of the nobility are the Molo, 
and along the shore to Posilipo ; there they 
enjoy the sea breeze in their carriages. It is only 
the very commonest people who go on foot ; a Nea- 
politan gentleman would be branded with disgrace, 
if he were caught committing the heinous misde- 
meanour of using his own legs. 

Some of their equipages are very handsome ; all 
had two running footmen, who ran before the car^ 
riages with incredible speed ; many of the richer 
nobility had four. 

My Lord Tylney, who had resided in Italy for 
many years, and spent his princely fortune between 
Florence and Naples, appeared on the drives on gala 



MICHAEL KELLY. 41 

.days, in great splendour ; I have seen him drawn 
by six beautiful English cream-coloured horses ! he 
had four men before his carriage, and a great num- 
ber more behind. 

His Lordship gave splendid dinners, concerts, 
and balls, which were frequented by all the English 
of consequence resident at Naples. I have seen 
there Sir William Hamilton, Lord Bristol, who was 
also Bishop of Derry, Lord and Lady Maynard, and 
a number of fashionables of different nations. 

After having taken my full swing of sight-seeing, 
and having spent Sir William's money, in and out 
of calashes *, I thought it full time to wait upon 
him. I accordingly did so, and received his promise 
to introduce me the following day to Finaroli, which 
he did. 

Finaroli was a light, sprightly, animated little 

* Calashes are to be found at the corners of all the principal 
streets in Naples. A calash is a small narrow gilt chair, set 
between two wheels, and without springs, drawn by one horse, 
which is guided by a cord tied round its nose, without bridle or 
bit. The driver, who usually wears his hair in a net, sometimes 
sports his night-cap, with a gold-laced hat over it, gets up 
behind, and, to do you honour, endangers your neck, driving 
helter-skelter through the streets, even through the Toledo 
Street, the longest and most populous one in all Naples, I think 
as long as Oxford Street, and actually swarming with friars, 
lawyers, and Lazzaroni. All the time he bellows, with the lungs 
of a Stentor, " Make way there for my Lord Anglais !" 



REMINISCEKCES OF 

man, about fifty : he heard me sing, and was 
pleased to say, I evinced promising abilities; he 
took me to see his Conservatorio, in which there 
were between three and four hundred boys ; they 
studied composition, singing, and to play on all 
instruments. There were several rooms, but in the 
great school-room, into which I was introduced, 
there were some singing, others playing upon the 
violin, hautboy, clarionet, horn, trumpet, &c. &c. 
each different music, and in different keys. The 
noise was horrible; and in the midst of this terrific 
Babel, the boy who studied composition was ex- 
pected to perform his task, and harmonize a melody 
given him by his master. I left the place in dis- 
gust, and swore to myself never to become an inmate 
of it. 

I acquainted Father Dolphin with my feelings 
on the subject, and the dislike I had to walk in the 
processions after the host, and wear the dress, 
which all who enter the Conservatorio must do*. 

On his representing this to Finaroli, he answered, 

* On or after the 17th of October, the boys of the three 
Conservatories are obliged to attend morning and evening, for 
nine days, at the Franciscan Church in their dresses. It is by 
attending this festival, and performing without remuneration, 
that they are exempt, by the king's permission, from all taxes 
on provision and wine, which are paid by every other class ei 
inhabitants. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 4S 

" I have taken a liking to the boy, and will receive 
him as an inmate : he shall have a small apartment 
on the ground-floor of the house where I live, and 
eat at my table. In addition to this, he will have 
the benefit of visiting the Conservatorio daily, and 
receive all the advantages of a scholar, without 
being obliged to put on the dress or perform the 
duties." 

My English piano-forte was of little use to me, 
as Finaroli had made it a sine qua non, that I should 
give up all thoughts of being a performer on it ; 
indeed, all Italian masters think it highly prejudicial 
to die voice. 

My master introduced me to the directors of 
the different theatres, and I had the entree of 
them all. 

At San Carlo's are performed grand serious 
operas, (the other three theatres are for the opera 
buffa,) the first I saw there was Metastasis Olim- 
piade, the music by Metzlevisic, a German of great 
musical celebrity. I thought it very fine, and the 
performance exquisite. 

The celebrated Marchesi, the first soprano, per- 
formed the part of Megacle ; his expression, feeling, 

* 

and execution in the beautiful aria, " Se cerca se 
dice T amico dov 1 e," were beyond all praise. An- 
sani, then the finest tenor voice in Europe, was 
there; and Macherini his wife, was the principal 



44 REMINISCENCES OF 

female singer ; she had a very sweet voice, but small, 
and of limited compass ; the Neapolitans called her 
" La cantante con la parruca," from her wearing a 
wig, in consequence of her head being shaved during 
illness, previous to her engagement ; but they liked 
her in spite of her wig ! 

Nothing could surpass the splendour of the 
spectacles they produced, or the beauty of their 
ballets. Le Pique was their first ballet master, 
Rossi the second, both great artists. Madame 
Rossi was the principal female dancer amongst a 
crowd of talent. 

The first ballet I saw was Artaxerxes. Le Pique, 
the Arbaces ; Madame Rossi, Mandane ; and Ar- 
tabanes, Richard Blake, an Irishman, who went 
abroad very young, and had become a very fine pan- 
tomime actor, and was considered the best grotesque 
dancer of his day. 

The decorations of this ballet were magnificent ; 
one in particular struck me. In the opera of 
Artaxerxes, on our stage, in the scene where Arta- 
banes makes Arbaces exchange swords with him, 
and receives the bloody one, he comes on at the side 
scene, which is very poor. In the ballet, the scene 
is placed in the middle of the stage, the galleries 
over each other, with apartments opening into them, 
are before you ; you see Artabanes rush out of the 
^chamber of Xerxes, having murdered him, and fly 



MICHAEL KELLY. 45 

across the different galleries, pursued by the guards 
of Artaxerxes, with lighted torches ; he makes his 
escape by a private door into the royal [gardens, 
where he meets Arbaces. 

The manner in which this scene was managed, 
was powerfully effective. I cannot conceive why, 
on our theatres, it might not be equally so, except, 
indeed, that the stage at San Carlo is of an immense 
size, capable of bearing and working any machinery, 
and besides, opens at the back towards the sea, and 
because it seems that the English theatres would 
not risk the expense. 

The Rape of the Sabines," and " La Disfatta 
di Dario (the defeat of Darius), were also splen- 
didly got up, as ballets. In the latter, in the battle 
between the armies of Alexander and Darius, 
eighty horses were introduced, and the whole 
arranged with the greatest skill. There were four 
hundred persons employed in it. I recollect there 
was a comic ballet, called the " Achievements of 
Don Quixote," in which my friend Blake shone con- 
spicuously as Sancho Panza. 

Four times in the year this magnificent theatre 
is illuminated ; viz. on the evening of the birth-day 
of the King of Spain, and on those of the King, 
Queen, and Prince Royal of Naples. 

In this vast edifice there are seven tiers of boxes; 
in the front of each box is a mirror, and before each 



46 REMINISCENCES OF 

^ 

of those, two large wax tapers ; those, multiplied 
by reflection, and aided by the flood of light 
from the stage, form a blaze of splendour perfectly 

dazzling. 

i i ni* 1 f cfYim'tti 

Each box contains twelve persons, who have 

commodious chairs, &c. ; at the back of each of 
those, on the principal tiers, is a small room, where 
the confectioner and pages of the proprietor wait, 
and distribute sweetmeats and ices to the company 
in the boxes, and any of their friends in the pit, 
whom they choose to recognize. 

There are sixteen rows of seats in the pit, forty 
seats in each row ; they are fitted up with stuffed 
cushions and rests for the arms, like chairs. When 
any one takes a place for the night, he receives a 
key of it ; and when he leaves the theatre, he locks 
the seat up again, and returns the key. 

On all gala days, the King, Queen, and all the 
Court attend in full dress ; at which times the 
coup cPceil is magnificent *. 

The Teatro Fiorentino is the most fashionable 
for the comic opera ; it is about the size of the little 
theatre in the Haymarket. The first opera I saw 
there was the " Italian in London," (from Voltaire,) 
composed by Cimarosa. From this drama the 

* This fine theatre has been since destroyed by fire ; but 
I understand that one, if possible more splendid, is built on the 
same spot. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 47 

eider Colman took the plot of his comedy of the 
" English Merchant." 

They had at that time excellent performers. The 
celebrated Genaro Luzzio was the primo buffo, arid 
the principal female, La Coltellini, was delightful, 
both as a comic actress and singer. 

At the Teatro Nuovo, another comic opera house, 
but by no means as good as the former, acted the 
celebrated Cassaciello, the idol of Naples. When- 
ever he appeared on the stage, the house was in a 
tumult of applause ; and though he gave his recita- 
tion in the Neapolitan jargon, there never was a 
greater favourite, nor one more deserving of favour. 

There were also two principal female singers, 
the Benvenuti, sisters and beauties; one of them 
had to boast of having in her train, the young 
Marchese Sambuco, son of the then prime minister 

ef Naples. 
* 

Here I saw the first representation of Paesiello's 
comic opera, " II Socrate Imaginario," (The ima- 
ginary Socrates). Cassaciello performed Socrates 
to admiration. I was informed that Garrick, having 
seen him in Naples, on his return to England, 
said, that the best comic actors he had ever seen, 
were Cassaciello in Naples, Preville at the Comedie 
Francaise in Paris, and Sacchi, the harlequin, at 
Venice. 

Another theatre, called II Teatro del Fondo, 



48 REMINISCENCES OF 

had closed before my arrival in Naples. It is consi- 
derably larger than the two of which I have just 
spoken the principal buffo, named Buonaveri, was 
an excellent actor as well as singer. He had lately 
returned from Russia, where he had amassed a 
large fortune. The tenor singer was Signor Men- 
gozzi, a sweet voice, replete with science and great 
taste. But the delight of the Lazzaroni, and the 
common people in general, was Jean Cole, the 
famous Pulcinella. He performed twice a day in 
a little theatre called Saint Carlino, on the Largo di 
Castello. The house was always crowded ; and 
even the King and Court frequented it, to enjoy his 
comic powers. 

Whatever Jean Cole said, was received with 
rapture. Once, when the King was at the theatre, 
he was performing in the piece, called " Pulcinella 
in Disgrazio," " Pulcinella in Disgrace ;" in 
the midst of a dialogue with another actor, 
he exclaimed, " Oh, Naples ! Naples ! dear, 
dear Naples ! beautiful Naples ! I shall never 
see thee more ! How happy I was in thee ! My 
royal and gracious master, the King, used to order 
maccaroni, lagrima Christi, and other dainties to be 
sent to me ; but, alas ! that is over ! he has for- 
gotten the good custom, and poor Pulcinella ! 
oh ! poor Pulcinella !" 

The King laughed heartily, and taking the hint, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 49 

the next morning sent Jean Cole a massive silver 
tureen filled with maccaroni. 

Carliiio, of the Comedie Italienne, in Paris, was 
an actor in Jean Golems line, and equally celebrated 
and followed. He likewise performed twice a day. 
He had an extraordinary facility in seizing and 
introducing the flying gossip of the moment. The 
report of the day always found an evening circula- 
tion through Carlino. 

But I apprehend that I am wandering a little 
from my subject ; considering the subject to be 
myself, that, perhaps will be forgiven : however, to 
return to Naples I continued to go on attentively 
receiving instructions. By day I studied with 
avidity and ambition, but in the evening followed 
my own devices, or was kindly introduced by my 
master to families of distinction. I was honoured 
by the patronage of the Princess Belrnonte, Princess 
Ghigi, the Duchess of Castel Duoro, Marchese del 
Vasto, Marchese St. Marca, and a long list of 
nobility. In their houses every evening after a 
little music, a Faro, or Basetta bank, was held by 
the proprietor of the mansion. They also played at 
Berabis, or Lotteria. Indeed, the whole delight of 
the Neapolitans, high and low, seemed to be 
gambling of one sort or another. 

The house I frequented with the greatest pleasure, 
was that of La Signora Moretti. She was a very 

VOL. I. D 



50 BEMINISCENCES OF 

charming person, and (which was not her least 
recommendation to me) an excellent judge of music, 
and a good singer and performer on the piano-forte. 
I frequently had the pleasure of meeting there the 
celebrated composer, Cimarosa, who had been the 
favourite scholar of my master, Finaroli. It was a 
great treat to hear him sing some of his comic 
songs, replete with humour and taste, accompanying 
himself. Amongst other professors frequently 
assembled there, I saw, one evening, Signor Di 
Giovanni, who many, many years afterwards, was 
my deputy stage-manager at the King's Theatre, 
and who had just then returned from Poland. 

About the month of July the King and Queen 
usually went to Posilipo, and in fine weather 
had concerts in the open air. To one of those I 
was taken by Sir William Hamilton, who did me 
the honour to introduce me to their Majesties 
as a lad from Ireland, come to study music in 
Naples. The first question the King asked, was, 
"Ne; siete Cristiano?" "I say, are you a 
Christian ?" " I hope I am, Sire," was my 
reply. Shortly afterwards he commanded me to 
sing an English song, and I put forth my strength 
in " By him we love offended," from the Duenna. 
Her Majesty then ordered an Italian air, and I sung 
u Ho sparse tante lagrime ;" they seemed pleased, 
and her Majesty, after asking me with great affa- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 51 

bility, how I liked Naples, where I lived, who was 
my instructor, &c. invited me to take some ice and 
a glass of Maraschino. I need not say with what 
pleasure I obeyed the command, nor how much my 
young mind was elated at her Majesty's conde- 
scension. 

Her Majesty had a fair complexion, and beau- 
tiful hair. It was said at Naples, that she bore 
a strong resemblance to her mother, Maria Theresa, 
Empress of Germany. I confess I did not think 
her particularly handsome. She had the character 
of a busy meddling woman, and the reputation of 
governing the King and kingdom completely ; 
indeed, in all matters of business he was accustomed 
to refer to her, saying, " Go to the Lady, she 
understands affairs better than I do;* 1 ' and judging 
by all I ever heard on the subject, he was in the 
right .' 

The King was very tall, near-sighted, with very 
light eye-brows, and remarkably fair hair. He 
was very partial to theatricals, and when he went to 
Caserta (one of his palaces), in which there was a 
beautiful little theatre, he often condescended to act 
in burlettas with the Queen. They uniformly took 
the parts of the principal Buffo and Buffa; the 
graver and more important characters were filled 
by the Lords and Ladies of the Court. 

His Majesty was a man of excellent heart, of 



REMINISCENCES OF 

which the following well-known, well-authenticated 
fact gives proof: 

When making a tour of Italy, his brother-in-law, 
Joseph II. Emperor of Germany, met him at Milan. 
Joseph's acuteness led him to suggest many altera- 
tions in the internal government of the kingdom, 
most of which would have been improvements ; but 
some of them, although very advantageous to the 
revenue, threatened to press somewhat hardly upon 
the subject. " I flatter myself I live in the hearts 
of my people, 1 '* was the king's reply ; " and I never 
will disturb their happiness by any thing which 
looks like oppression. I find in my dominions 
numerous natives of other countries, many poor 
and wretched ; but in all the cities I have visited, I 
have neither seen nor heard of one Neapolitan in a 
similar situation, a proof, as I think, that they 
find more comfort and encouragement in their own 
country than elsewhere, which illustrates the old 
Neapolitan proverb : " Chi sta bene non si muova," 
(Those who are well should not change). 

Had tliis monarch possessed the advantages of a 
common education^ he might have done much for 
his country ; but it was with difficulty he could 
even write his name, and, consequently, he left 
every thing to the Queen, the Marquis Tanucci, his 
former and but too indulgent tutor, and the Che- 
valier Acton, an extremely clever man and minister, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 53 

and, above all, as it was said, a great favourite with 
Her Majesty. 

The King, uneducated as he was, was proportion- 
ably fond of field sports ; he was perpetually hunting, 
shooting, or fishing, in which exploits he was 
usually accompanied by Sir William Hamilton, to 
whom he was very partial. Upon these occasions 
His Majesty would go out into the Bay, with a 
large escort of fishermen, and not return until a 
quantity of fish was caught, which was sent to 
Santa Lucia (the fish-market), for sale. The con- 
vents had the first choice, the remaining part went 
to the best bidder, and the money arising from the 
sale was distributed amongst the poor. 

Another of his amusements was, the game of 
Pallone, which he often played in a court built for 
that purpose, in the Largo di Castello ; and any 
person decently dressed, was admitted to see him. 
One day, when I was amongst the spectators, he 
came to me, and asked whether I had ever seen the 
game played in England. But skilful as he was at 
this amusement, he performed one feat which sur- 
passed all competition ; I mean, the eating mac- 
carom, of whioh he was very fond. This exhibition, 
I honestly confess, surprised me most of any thing 
I had ever seen either of a king or a subject. He 
seized it in his fingers, twisting and pulling it about, 
and cramming it voraciously into his mouth, most 



REMINISCENCES OF 

magnanimously disdaining the use of either knife, 
fork, or spoon, or indeed any aid except such as 
nature had kindly afforded him. 

In the month of August, 1779, which will be 
remembered, for their lives, by all those who chanced 
to be in Naples at that period, happened one of the 
most terrific irruptions of Vesuvius that ever was 
recollected by man. At that time, a great fair was 
held in the Piazza St. Ferdinando, and the Largo 
di Castello ; I was at the fair when the mountain 
first began to throw forth its lava, and, during the 
whole duration of the irruption, I was permitted to 
be near Sir William Hamilton, and this was indeed 
a most fortunate circumstance for me, for, inde- 
pendent of his scientific knowledge, he was re- 
spected by all the better classes, and a favourite 
with the Lazzaroni into the bargain, who often 
lamented that " so good a man must be eternally 
punished, since he was a heretic. 

Vesuvius continued to throw up such abundance 
of lava, that had the wind been in a different direc- 
tion, Naples and Portici must have been swallowed 
up ; for, on the opposite side, whole villages, vine- 
yards, &c. were destroyed. During two days the 
scene was most appalling, horror and dismay were 
in every countenance, and despair in every heart. 

The Lazzaroni, as usual, appealed to their patron 
saint and protector, St. Gennaro, and went in a 



MICHAEL KELLY. 55 

body to the palace of the Archbishop of Naples, to 
demand the keys of the church where the figure of 
the saint is kept, that they might carry him off, and 
place him vis-a-vis to the villanous mountain; 
well convinced, that -at the bare sight of his wooden 
countenance, it would cease roaring ! The Arch- 
bishop, however, having intimation of their ap- 
proach, and thinking, with Falstaff, that <{ the 
better part of valour is discretion," retreated by a 
private way in his carriage, and set off for his 
palace at Capua, too far distant to be followed by 
the Lazzaroni on foot. Indeed, his Eminence had 
good reasons for supposing, that had those mirrors 
of integrity got possession of the saint, they might, 
when he had quelled the mountain, have carried 
their gratitude so far as to ease him of the weight 
of diamonds and other precious gems with which 
his head and body were covered : a species of toi- 
lette to which his Excellency was wisely unwilling 
to subject his Saintshiy?. 

The Lazzaroni finding themselves disappointed, 
held a council, and I saw them in an immense body 
march to Posilipo, whither the King and Queen 
had retired, determined to force the King to order 
the Saint to be given up to them. The King ap- 
peared on the balcony to address them, but in vain ; 
the Queen also (enceinte) came forward, but with- 
out avail. The royal guard and a Swiss regiment 



56 REMINISCENCES OF 

were ordered to disperse them ; but they were not 
to be intimidated; neither entreaties nor menaces 
could divert them from their purpose. " The 
Saint ! the Saint ! give us up our Saint !" was the 
universal cry. Just as popular fury was at its 
height, a man appeared, whom, the moment they 
saw, the wolves became lambs ; the mob fell on 
their knees before him bareheaded and in total 
silence. He addressed them in the following con- 
ciliatory manner: 

" What do you come here for, ye infamous 
scoundrels ? Do ye want to disturb your Saint, 
in his holy sanctuary, by moving him ? Think ye, 
ye impious rascals, that if St. Gennaro had chosen 
to have the mountain silent, ere this, he would not 
have commanded it to be so ? Hence ! to your 
homes, ye vagrants ! away ! be off ! lest the Saint, 
enraged at your infamous conduct, should order 
the earth to open, and swallow you up !" 

This soothing speech, aided by a kick to one, 
and a knock on the head to another, (fairly dealt 
to all within his reach,) dispersed them without a 
single murmur ! So that what the supplication of 
their Sovereign, backed by the soldiery, could not 
effect, was accomplished by one man, armed indeed 
with superstition, but with nothing else ! 

This man was Father Rocco, well known to have 
possessed the most unbounded power over the lower 



MICHAEL KELLY. 57 

orders in Naples ; of no Saint in the calendar (St. 
Gennaro excepted,) did they stand in such awe as 
of Father Rocco. Pie was a sensible shrewd man, 
and used the power he possessed with great dis- 
cretion. He was much in the confidence of the 
Chevalier Acton, and the other Ministers. 

Previous to his time, assassinations were frequent 
at night in the streets, which were in utter dark- 
ness ; and the Government dared not interfere to 
have them lighted, lest they should offend the 
Lazzaroni ; but Father Rocco undertook to do it. 
Before each house in Naples there is a figure of a 
Madonna, or some saint, and he had the address to 
persuade the inhabitants that it was a mortal sin 
to leave them in the dark ! 

I was myself a witness of the following ridiculous 
scene. One evening a groupe of- Lazzaroni were 
very attentively playing at their favourite game of 
mora ; beside them was a puppet-show, in which 
Punch was holding forth with ail his might. 
Father Rocco suddenly appeared amongst them. 
The first step the holy man took, was to sweep 
into his pouch all the money staked by the gam- 
blers ; then, turning to the spectators of Punch, he 
bawled out, " So, so, ye rapscallions ! instead of 
going out to fish for the Convents and support your 
families, ye must be loitering here, attending to 
this iniquitous Punch ! this lying varlet T Then 

D 5 



5>8 REMINISCENCES OF 

lifting up a large wooden cross, suspended by huge 
beads round his waist, he lustily belaboured all 
within his reach, lifting up the cross at intervals, 
and crying out, " Look here, you impious rogues !" 
" Questo e il vero Pulcinella !" " This is the true 
Punch, you impious villains ;" and strange as this 
mixture of religious zeal and positive blasphemy 
may appear, they took their thrashing with piety, 
and departed peaceably like good Catholics. I 
got out of his way with great alertness, feeling no 
desire to become a disciple of such a striking school 
of religious instruction. 

On the 8th of September, however, I saw a 
religious procession which was truly beautiful. 
The King and Queen, with the Court, attended 
by a large body of the military, crowds of monks, 
the boys of the Conservatori, &c. went, as they do 
annually, to pay their respects to La Madonna del 
Pie di Grotta. All the balconies of the houses in 
the streets through which they passed were hung 
with tapestry, rich silk, satins, &c. and the sight was 
really striking and magnificent. 

Another interesting ceremony, la Festa della 
Nouvena, took place nine days previous. The 
peasantry and shepherds from Abruzzo, Calabria, 
and Apulia, upon this anniversary, come from the 
mountains in their sheepskin dresses, playing on 
their various instruments, some on the Zampogna, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 59 

(a kind of bagpipe,) others on the Colascione. 
This instrument is the common one in the Neapo- 
litan dominions, and is something like a guitar, 
having however only two strings, tuned fifths to each 
other. These shepherds visit all the churches, and 
play their famous pastorale there, and at all the 
principal noblemen's houses. During Christmas 
the processions are to be seen, in which they per- 
form ; amongst their pageantry they have move- 
able stages, the machinery connected with which is 
admirable, representing the birth of our Saviour, 
the Virgin, &c. all as large as life. The expense 
of some of these processions is enormous ; and 
the " properties," as they would be theatrically 
called, are constantly left in families as heir- 
looms. 

As my master, whose church music was highly 
approved of, conducted the principal church fes- 
tivals, I was allowed to sing at many of them, 
being a Christian, or, as I have before explained 
it, a Roman Catholic. I was delighted at this, 
not for the lucre of gain, (although they pay their 
singers liberally,) but because the nuns of the con- 
vents where the performances take place, send round 
trays full of delicious sweetmeats, made by them- 
selves. Such traits of female attention were pecu- 
liarly gratifying to me at that period. 

The profession of a nun, as indeed many tra- 



60 REMINISCENCES OF 

vellers have described, is a most magnificent and 
impressive sight. I the lady be of a noble and 
rich family, the luxury displayed on the occasion 
is excessive ; she is covered with diamonds, all of 
which, if she does not possess them herself, are 
borrowed or hired for the occasion. 

Finaroli told me an anecdote so illustrative of the 
ridiculous punctilio and vanities which sometimes 
mix themselves with this solemn act, that I cannot 
forbear repeating it. 

The young and beautiful daughter of the Duke 
de Monteleone, the richest nobleman in Naples, 
was destined by her family to take the veil; she 
consented without a murmur to quit the world, 
provided the ceremony of her profession was per- 
formed with splendour ; and a sine qua non was, 
that Cafarelli, the great soprano singer, should 
perform at it. It was represented to her that 
he had retired with a fine fortune to his estate, 
in the interior of Calabria, and had declared his 
determination never to sing again. " Then" said the 
reasonable young lady, " / declare my determi- 
nation never to take the veil unless he does. He 
sang six years ago, when my cousin was professed ; 
and I had rather die, than it should be said, that 
she had the first singer in the world to sing for 
her, and that I had not !" The fair lady was firm ; 
and her glorious obstinacy was such, that her 



MICHAEL KELLY. 61 

father was obliged to take a journey into Calabria, 
when, with much entreaty, and many very weighty 
arguments, he prevailed on Cafarelli to return with 
him to Naples. He sang a salve regina at the 
ceremony ; and the Signora having gained her 
point, cheerfully submitted to be led, like a lamb to 
the sacrifice, to eternal seclusion from the gay and 
wicked world. 

In justice, however, to her taste it must be 
said, that Cafarelli was one of the greatest soprano 
singers Italy ever produced. He was a Neapo- 
litan, and the Neapolitans were very proud of him. 
He amassed a great fortune, and purchased the 
Dukedom of Dorato for his nephew, and built a 
magnificent palace for himself ; over the entrance to 
which, was inscribed 

AMPHYON, THEBAS, 

EGO, DOMUM. 

At the period of which I am now speaking, 
there were amongst the English at Naples, a Mr. 
Stewart and family. He had taken a house for 
three years ; but he and his family were going to 
spend the ensuing carnival at Rome. On my ac- 
cidentally saying that, had my means permitted, 
I should have rejoiced at the opportunity of seeing 
that city in their company, Mr. Stewart most ge- 
nerously offered me a seat in his carriage, and a 
cover at his table, and to bring me back, free of 



REMINISCENCES OF 

all expense. I confess, my heart beat with joy 
at the proposal ! I flew to my master and the 
good Father Dolphin, to obtain permission for this 
delightful journey, which was granted, and with a 
few zecchinos on account, from the latter, com- 
pleted my happiness. My friend Fleming went 
with me to the Molo * to get my Neapolitan ducats 
exchanged for Roman scudi ; and on the follow- 
ing morning, December 26th, with a heart as light 
as my pocket, I found myself seated in an excel- 
lent travelling carriage, with the worthy Mr. 
Stewart, his amiable wife and sister ; a courier 
before, and a Neapolitan carriage with the servants 
and luggage behind us; and truth to say I never 
felt more perfectly happy in the whole course of my 
existence. 

We passed the first night at Terracina, a dan- 
gerous place to sleep at during the summer months, 
as it is then rendered dreadfully unwholesome, 
by what the Romans call the " mal aria."" All 
the inhabitants who have the means of doing so, 
leave it during that period. We however escaped, 

* Near the Molo is the money market, where there were stalls, 
in which the owners sat with wooden bowls before them, tilled 
with the coin of every nation in the world ; there, for a small 
premium, the traveller might obtain the current cash of the na- 
tion he was about to visit ; and this in many instances was more 
convenient than a letter of credit. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 63 

and arrived in Rome the following evening, and 
drove to the Piazza di Spagna, where the English 
usually took up their abode. The Spanish Am- 
bassador always resided there, and it was so com- 
pletely his territory, that he could grant protec- 
tion, even in cases of murder ! Whether in com- 
pliment to the Spanish Embassy, or the English 
society, I know not, but unprejudiced ladies were, 
in those days, not suffered to live in any other 
quarter of the city ! 

The day after our arrival, we went to the Corso, 
where the sports of the carnival were going on. 
There was to be seen the whole population of 
Rome, high and low, rich and poor, en masque ; 
the nobility and ladies in their most slendid equi- 
pages, all masqued, throwing sugar-plums to the 
motley groupe below, which was composed of 
mountebanks, pulcinellas, cardinals, harlequins, &c. 
with music, dancing, singing. In short, I was in 
a delirium of pleasure ! Every evening, we visited 
the theatres : there are two for serious operas, 
the Aliberti and the Argentina, where the best 
performers are always found; indeed, should 
the manager attempt to introduce any thing 
inferior, woe be to him ! and, as these theatres 
are only allowed to be open during the carnival, 
he is obliged to pay enormous salaries to procure 
the first singers ; for the Romans will have the 



64s REMINISCENCES OF 

best or none. There are also two theatres for comic 
operas, La Capranica and La Valle. 

The Romans assume that they are the most 
sapient critics in the world ; they are, certainly, 
the most severe ones : they have no medium, all 
is delight or disgust. If asked whether a perform- 
ance or a piece has been successful, the answer, if 
favourable, is, " e andato al settimo cielo," " it 
has ascended to the seventh heaven."" If it has 
failed, they say, " e andato alP abbisso del inferno, 1 ' 
" it has sunk to the abyss of hell." The severest 
critics are the Abbes, who sit in the first row of the 
pit, each armed with a lighted wax taper in one hand, 
and a book of the opera in the other ; and should 
any poor devil of a singer miss a word, they call out 
" bravo, bestia," " bravo, you beast !" 

It is customary for the composer of an opera, to 
preside at the piano-forte the first three nights of 
its performance, and a precious time he has of it in 
Rome. Should any passage in the music strike 
the audience as similar to one of another composer, 
they cry, " Bravo, il ladro," " bravo, you thief; 
or, " bravo, Paesiello ! bravo, Sacchini !" if they 
suppose the passage stolen from them, " the curse 
of God light on him who first put a pen into 
your hand to write music !" This I heard said, 
in the Teatro Aliberti, to the celebrated com- 
poser Gazzaniga, who was obliged to sit patiently 



MICHAEL KELLY. 65 

at the piano-forte to hear the flattering commenda- 
tion. 

Cimarosa, who was their idol as a composer, was 
once so unfortunate as to make use of a movement 
in a comic opera, at the Teatro della Valle, which 
reminded them of one of his own, in an opera com- 
posed by him for the preceding carnival. An Abbe 
started up, and said, " Bravo, Cimarosa ! you are 
welcome from Naples ; by your music of to-night, 
it is clear you have neither left your trunk behind 
you, nor your old music ; you are an excellent 
cook in hashing up old dishes !" 

Poggi, the most celebrated buffo singer of his 
day, always dreaded appearing before those stony- 
hearted critics ; however, tempted by a large sum, 
he accepted an engagement at the Teatro della 
Valle. He arrived in Rome some weeks previous to 
his engagement, hoping to make friends, and form a 
party in his favour ; he procured introductions to 
the most severe and scurrilous, and thinking to find 
the way to their hearts through their mouths, 
gave them splendid dinners daily. One of them, 
an Abbe, he selected from the rest, as his bosom 
friend and confidante ; he fed, clothed, and supplied 
him with money ; he confided to him his terrors 
at appearing before an audience so fastidious as the 
Romans. The Abbe assured him, that he had 
nothing to fear, as his opinion was looked up to by 



66 REMINISCENCES OF 

the whole bench of critics ; and when he approved, 
none dare dissent. 

The awful night for poor Poggi at length arrived ; 
his ficlus Achates took his usual seat, in his little 
locked-up chair in the pit. It was agreed between 
them, that he was to convey to Poggi, by signs, the 
feeling of the audience towards him; if they 
approved, the Abbe was to nod his head; if the 
contrary, to shake it. When Poggi had sung his 
first song, the Abbe nodded, and cried, " Bravo ! 
bravissimo f but in the second act, Poggi became 
hoarse, and imperfect ; the audience gave a gentle 
hiss, which disconcerted the affrighted singer, 
and made him worse : on this, his friend became 
outrageous, and standing up on his chair, after 
putting out his wax-light, and closing his book, he 
looked Poggi in the face, and exclaimed, " Signer 
Poggi, I am the mouth of truth, and thus declare, 
that you are decidedly the worst singer that ever 
appeared in Rome ! I also declare, that you ought 
to be hooted off the stage for your impudence, in 
imposing on my simple and credulous good nature, 
as you have done." This produced roars of laugh- 
ter, and poor Poggi retired, never to appear again, 
without even exclaiming, " Et tu, Brute," which he 
might most appropriately have applied to his 
guardian crony. 

A circumstance something like this took place at 



MICHAEL KELLY. 67 

the Teatro Argentina. A tenor singer of the name 
of Gabrielli, brother of the great female singer of 
that name, was engaged there. Before he had got 
through five bars of his first song, the critics began 
to hiss and hoot, (and very deservedly so, for he 
was execrable), saying, " Get away, you cursed 
raven f " Get off, you Goat !" On which he 
came forward and addressed the audience very 
mildly, " You fancy you are mortifying me, by 
hooting me ; you are grossly deceived ; on the 
contrary, I applaud your judgment, for I solemnly 
declare to you, that I never appeared on any stage 
without receiving the same treatment, and sometimes 
much worse !" This appeal, though it produced a 
momentary laugh, could not procure a second 
appearance for the poor fellow. 

A description of the magnificent buildings of 
Rome is not what is expected, perhaps, in memoirs 
such as these; yet it is impossible to speak of 
that magnificent city without noticing the splendid 
structures which overy where strike the eye of a 
stranger. 

The church of St. Peter appeared to me so mag- 
nificent, that our St. Paul's seemed but an epitome 
of it, though built on the same plan. When the 
Pope chaunts the Te Deum, assisted by the choir, 
and in some parts by the whole congregation 
(generally possessing good voices and fine ears), the 



68 REMINISCENCES OF 

effect produced is certainly sublime ; but it is in 
the Pope's chapel only, one can hear in perfection 
the divine music of Palestrina. 

Like all strangers, I of course visited the Coli- 
seum, the Palazzi Corsini and Borghese, with their 
magnificent gardens, the Villa Albani, the Vatican, 
the Pantlieon, and all its superb antiquities. Before 
I left Naples, I was so fortunate as to procure a 
letter from a Dominican friar to Father M'Mahon, 
a Capuchin, and a very worthy countryman of 
mine ; who kindly became my guide, and explained 
every thing to me. He conducted me to see the 
house where Raphael had resided, in the Via Comari 
to the Via Gregorina, where Salvator Rosa and 
Gaspar Poussin both had lived, and also to the 
Trinita del Monte, where Taddeo Zucchero died. 
He had begged his way to Rome, but was rich 
enough before his death to build some of the most 

o 

superb palaces in that city. On the Trinita del 
Monte, Mengs had also dwelt, and painted the 
walls of his own bed-chamber. His apartments 
were afterwards inhabited by Angelica Kauffman, 
when she finally left England. 

We went to the church of the Saint Onofrio 
convent, where lie the remains of Tasso, whose in- 
comparable genius produced his Jerusalem Delivered 
before he was thirty years of age ; and who, it is 
said, composed verses at seven years old .' The 



MICHAEL KELLY. 69 

sight of the beautiful palace, Via Colonna, the 
dwellings of Propertius and Virgil, near Porto St. 
Lorenzo, and the gardens of Mecaenas, finished our 
researches. 

Amongst the living sights, I frequently saw in 
his carriage his Eminence Cardinal York, brother 
to the Pretender, but whom the Romans called 
brother of the King of England ! He bore an 
excellent character, and was charitable in the ex- 
treme, particularly to any English who claimed his 
protection*. 

Mr. Stewart, his family, and myself, in our way 
back from Rome, passed a day at Frascati. I was 

* Father M'Mahon told me a comical story of a countryman 
of ours, a Mr. Patrick O'Flanagan, who having been wrecked 
at Genoa, travelled on foot to Rome, to beg assistance of 
Cardinal York ; and got the Cardinal's porter, who was a 
Scotchman, to present his Eminence with the following 
conciliatory letter. 

May it please your Sanctity, 

I was cast on shore at Genoa trarelled on foot to Rome. Hearing of your 
Holiness's humanity to poor Irishmen for thirteen years I served his 
Britannic Majesty, King George the Third in the navy. God bless and 
prosper bim (o boot. I hate and detest the Pope and the Pretender, and I 
defy them and the devil and all his works, and am, 

Your Sanctity's obedient servant, 

PAT. O'FLANAGAN. 

Pat waited until the Cardinal was going out to take his 
morning's ride, when he threw himself on his knees before his 
Eminence, who laughed heartily at his elegant epistle, and 
ordered him twenty Roman crowus. 



70 REMINISCENCES OF 

delighted with this village, the scene of Paesiello's 
beautiful comic opera, called La Frascatana, par- 
ticularly as it was the first Italian opera I had ever 
seen in Dublin. 

We returned in safety to Naples, Mr. Stewart 
proceeding to his house in the Chiaja, and myself 
to my worthy master, Finaroli. He seemed pleased 
to see me, and expressed a hope that I would now 
attend steadily to my studies. My mornings were 
devoted to the Conservatories and festivals which 
were daily celebrated in the different churches. 
My passion for music amounted to adoration, and 
as at my time of life, good or bad taste was easily 
imbibed and fixed, I was fortunate in never hearing 
any but of the most superior kind, and performed 
by the first professors of the age. My evening I 
passed generally at one of the theatres, if not so 
fortunate as to be engaged to Sir William Hamilton, 
or at some of the great houses, where I had been 
introduced. I must say, that at the time I speak 
of, to be a native of Great Britain, was a passe 
partout all over Italy ! indeed the name of Eng- 
lishman was held in such reverence, that if two 
Italians were making a bargain, it was clenched by 
one saying, ' 6 I pledge myself to do so and so on 
the honour of an Englishman." This was con- 
sidered more binding than any oath they could 
swear. I am sorry to say that the feeling which 



MICHAEL KELLY. 71 

then existed towards my countrymen has become 
almost extinct ; and am still more sorry to be 
obliged to admit, that in the many disgraceful 
scenes I have witnessed, the Italians were not always 
in fault. 

Amongst the many great musical professors at 
this time at Naples, was the celebrated Schuster. 
He was the favourite scholar of the renomme Hasse, 
Maestro di Cappella to the then Elector of Saxony. 
Schuster, though a very young man, had been sent 
for from Dresden to compose for Pachierotti, at 
the theatre St. Carlo. The opera chosen was 
Metastasio's " La Didone abbandonata." I recollect 
his taking me to a rehearsal, which was a crown 
and sceptre to me in those days. The opera was 
received with enthusiasm, particularly the rondo, 
sung divinely by Pachierotti, " lo ti lascio, e questo 
addio," which was afterwards introduced in the 
musical entertainment of " The Flitch of Bacon," 
with the English words, " No, 'twas neither shape 
nor feature," adapted to it by my worthy friend 
Shield. La Didone drew crowded houses, but the 
rondo was the magnet ; indeed, Pachierotti's singing 
it, was supposed to have raised a violent flame in 
the bosom of La Marchesa Santa Marca, one of the 
most beautiful women of the Neapolitan court. She 
was said to be of a very susceptible nature, and to 

have fallen desperately in love with the pious Eneas, 

i 



72 REMINISCENCES OF 

which love he honestly returned ; this, though very 
pleasant to the parties themselves, was by no means 
relished by a certain Cavalier Ruffo, who had been 
cavalier servente to the Marchesa, but was fairly 
dismissed by the rondo. He did not choose to lose 
his mistress to that tune, and meeting Pachierotti 
one evening on the Molo, (the fashionable prome- 
nade of the Neapolitans to taste the sea-breeze,) he 
overwhelmed him with abuse, and struck him ! 
Pachierotti drew his sword, and being as good a 
swordsman as a singer, soon wounded and disarmed 
il Cavaliere. He immediately reported the affair to 
the minister il Marchese Sambuco, who submitted 
the matter to the King. His Majesty was pleased 
to approve of Paebierotti'fl conduct, and it was 
hinted to il Cavaliere, that if he attempted further 
outrage, himself and family might find cause for 
repentance in the loss of their places at Court. This 
was decisive, and the affair dropped. But Pachie- 
rotti, who lived in perpetual fear of assassination, 
though engaged for two seasons, gave in his resig- 
nation on the score of ill health at the end of the 
first ; and acting Eneas for the last time, left the 
fair Marchesa to play Didone at her leisure ! 

But to return to myself. It is really curious 
to observe upon what trifling circumstances the 
greatest and most important events of our lives 

depend. I was walking one evening, with my 

2 



MICHAEL KELLY. 73 

friend Blake, through the Strada di Toledo ; and 
when passing some billiard-rooms, he recollected 
that he was likely to find a person in them whom he 
wished to see. We went up stairs, and in the room 
found the famous soprano singer, Signer Giuseppe 
Aprile, who was allowed to be the greatest singer 
and musician of the day. He was called by the 
Italians, and indeed every where, " II padre di 
tutti i cantanti," the father of all singers. Blake 
introduced me to him, and he very kindly invited 
us to take chocolate with him the next morning. 
When we went, he received us with great cordiality, 
and after hearing me sing, said, " This boy has 
both taste and expression, and I think so well of his 
abilities, that if his friends approve of it, I will 
take him with me to Palermo, and instruct him 
without any remuneration ; indeed, I have no 
doubt but that in a short time I can make him 
capable of earning his bread any where. 1 ' 1 

Blake was delighted at my receiving through his 
means such an offer from so great a man. I was 
charmed at the prospect of seeing the capital of 
Sicily, and Sir William Hamilton and the good 
Father Dolphin were as pleased as either at the 
happy prospect opening before me, and cheerfully 
gave their consent to my going. Our departure was 
to take place in four months. In the interim, Aprile 
made me solfeggiare with Signer Lanza, (father to 

VOL. i. E 



74 REMINISCENCES OF 

the Lanza who was said to be the instructor of 
Miss Stephens.) He was an excellent singing master, 
and was afterwards brought into this country, with 
his family, by the Marquess of Abercorn, for the 
purpose of instructing his daughters, and lived with 
his Lordship's family at the Priory. 

Previous, to our going to Palermo, Aprile went 
to see his family at Abruzzo ; and at the same time 
to conduct a musical festival at Gaeta, and took 
me with him. The best professors in the kingdom 
were engaged, and I had the honour of singing a 
salve regina. The festival was most splendid, and 
had Aprile been the greatest potentate on earth, 
he could not have been more caressed by his towns- 
men than he was. 

Gaeta is four days'* journey from Naples ; and 
as we slept each night at a convent, I had a good 
opportunity of witnessing the luxurious mode in 
which the monks of Abruzzo lived. It beggars 
all description ; they and their convents are pro- 
verbially rich, and their country abounds in all 
good things, especially wines, which are indeed 
excellent. After the festival was over, and we 
had remained a week at Gaeta, we returned to 
Naples, not forgetting in our way back our noc- 
turnal visits to the holy fathers, who repeated their 
hospitalities. 

On our return, I continued my attention to 



f 

MICHAEL KELLY. 75 

Aprile, who gave me a lesson every day, and almost 
every day an invitation to dinner ; he seemed much 
entertained by my boyish mimicry a talent which I 
possessed at that time in no mean degree. I went 
with him to visit the miracle of St. Gennaro or 
Januario, in the Cathedral ; the King and Queen, 
in state, attended his Saintship. There were two 
immense orchestras erected in the church ; and 
all good professors, vocal and instrumental, were 
engaged to perform upon these occasions. The 
Archbishop prays, or appears to pray, while the 
Te Deum is sung. He then displays a phial, 
which contains the congealed blood of St. Gennaro ; 
towards this he holds up a large wax taper, that 
the people may perceive it is congealed. The 
miracle consists, as every body knows, in this blood 
dissolving before the congregation, and is supposed 
to be performed by the saint himself. As soon as it 
is liquified, the Archbishop roars lustily, " the mira- 
cle is accomplished J" The Te Deum is again sung, 
and the whole congregation prostrate themselves 
before the altar of the saint with gratitude and 
devotion, and every face beams with delight. 

On one of those miraculous days, I witnessed a 
ludicrous scene. It happened by some accident, 
that the Archbishop could not make the miracle 
work. The Lazzaroni and old women loudly called 
on the Virgin for assistance. " Dear Virgin Mary ! 



76 KEMIXISCENCES OF 

Blessed Madonna ! Pray, use your influence with 
St. Gennaro ! Pray, induce him to work the 
miracle ! Do we not love him ? Do we not wor- 
ship him ?" But when they found the Saint inex- 
orable, they changed their note, and seemed re- 
solved to abuse him into compliance. They all at 
once cried out, " Porco di St. Gennaro !" " You 
pig of a Saint !" " Barone maladetto !" " You 
cursed rascal !" " Cane faccia gial^utta !" " You 
yellow-faced dog !" In the midst of this, the blood 
(thanks to the heat of the Archbishop's hand,) dis- 
solved. They again threw themselves on their 
knees, and tearing their hair (the old ladies par- 
ticularly), with streaming eyes, cried, " Oh ! most 
holy Saint, forgive us this once, and never more will 
we doubt your goodness !" Had I not been an eye- 
witness of this scene of gross superstition and igno- 
rance, I really could not have given credit to it. 

Time, which flies the faster the longer we live, 
wore on rapidly even in my young days, and the 
period approached at which I was to leave enchanting 
Naples, where " Wit walks the street, and music 
fills the air." Sir William Hamilton continued his 
kindness towards nie^ and procured many letters of 
introduction for me, in addition to those which he 
himself gave me to the Prince Villa Franca Paterno 

o 

Budera^ and Petrapersia his sen., the Duke of Ver- 
dura, and the Duke St. Michele. I was greatly 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

grieved at quitting the friends I had acquired, par- 
ticularly ray faithful companion Fleming, and a Mr. ' 
Cobley, a young man who was in a mercantile house 
in Naples. Many years after, I had the pleasure of 

meeting; him at the house of his brother-in-law, Mr. 

o 

Hay don, of Plymouth, when we talked of our 
youthful pranks, and " fought all our battles o'er 
again,' 1 ' not forgetting the innumerable bowls of 
punch we had drunk on the Mole, at the house of 
the pretty widow Mac Mahon, who had one great 
attraction in my eyes, in addition to those of her 
person. She let me score, and I did " score, and 
spared not ;" and the consequence was, that being 
born with a natural genius for drinking punch, I 
got pretty deep into her books ; not into her bad 
books, however, for I paid her honourably before I 
left Naples. 

Aprile, his brother, Giuseppe, a valet de chambre, 
and myself, embarked on board a polacre, com- 
manded by a Trapani Capitano, and set sail for 
Palermo, at which place, after a tolerable passage, 
we arrived on the evening of the third day ; though 
we suffered much by sea sickness, it was two days 
before we were allowed to go on shore. While 
enduring this delay, a number of young men swam 
near our vessel, while bathing. The Sicilians arc 
reckoned the most expert swimmers and divers in 
Europe; consequently it is their favourite amuse- 



78 REMINISCENCES OF 

men! ; and they are so accustomed to it, that they 
are able to remain several hours in the water. The 
Captain of our polacre told me, that swimming 
actually formed part of the education of a Sicilian, 
and that with them it was an acquirement of equal 
importance to reading or writing. 

When we were released we went to the only 
tolerable hotel in Palermo, kept by a Madame 
Montano, a saucy old French woman. However, 
we were soon released from her den, and conducted 
to an excellent house taken for Aprile, in the Stracla 
del Cassaro, near La Porta Felice. 

La Strada del Cassaro is a beautiful street, and 
four others leading from it, called Le Strade dei 
Quattro Cantoni, are also very fine, and contain the 
palaces of the first nobility. At one end of the 
Cassaro is the Palace of the Viceroy, a ponderous 
piece of architecture ; and at the other are the 
Flora Gardens, and the Porta Felice itself, which 
opens to the Marino. 

Aprile had the goodness to appropriate a com- 
fortable apartment in his house to my use, and I 
determined to make the best of my time, and the 
favourable opportunities which presented them- 
selves. I studied between five and six hours every 
day, with the greatest assiduity ; my voice fell 
gradually into a tenor, and in a short time I could 
execute several songs which had been composed for 



MICHAEL KELLY. 79 

wo celebrated tenors of that day, Ansani and David. 
I delivered the letters of introduction which I 
brought from Naples, and was generally well re- 
ceived by those to whom I delivered them, par- 
ticularly by the Duke St. Michele, and the Prince 
Val Guarniera ; with these noble and kind friends, 
I was permitted to pass much of my time. The 
Duchess St. Michele was accomplished and beau- 
tiful, and sang delightfully. The Duke spoke 
English fluently, and was an enthusiastic admirer 
of Shakspeare, and our old dramatic authors. 
Indeed, I was surprised to find so many of the 
Sicilian nobility had studied English. They had 
a Casino, called the " English Casino," to which 
none were admitted who could not, at least, make 
themselves understood. 

The Palermitans are all fond of music, and 
every evening there was an Accademia di Musica 
held at some private house. I was usually invited 
to these : to be the scholar of Aprile, and an Irish- 
man, were sufficient ; but I was besides considered 
a Christian. 

Every good has more or less of evil to counter- 
balance it, and amongst all my comforts, I found 
the climate of Sicily warmer and more oppressive 
than that of Naples ; indeed, when the sirocco 
blows, it is almost insupportable. As a proof that 
this is actually the case, the indolence and torpitude 



80 REMINISCENCES OF 

of the people during its continuance may well be 
adduced ; they are perfectly dreadful, and are 
greatly increased by the seclusion in which every 
body necessarily live ; the doors, window shutters, 
and verhandas being almost hermetically sealed, and 
all business and visiting at an end. Such is the 
opinion which the natives have of its baleful influ- 
ence, that I once heard a Palermitan dilettante say, 
when obliged to allow that some music composed by 
his favourite Pigniotti, was bad " Well, I suppose 
I must admit it is bad ; but perhaps he composed it 
during the sirocco !" 

When the tramontane or north wind returns, 
every thing resumes its gay and beautiful appear- 
ance, not excepting the ladies, who in general have 
brilliant black eyes and eye-lashes, and a fine, ener- 
getic, vivacious expression of countenance. Their 
costume is very becoming, and in the street they 
wear the black veil, after the Spanish fashion ; in 
the evening, they dress much in the French and 
English style, that is, the higher orders, who on 
their gala days wear a profusion of diamonds. All 
ranks, however, are fond of ornament, the very 
poorest loading their throats with gold chains, &c. 
&c. In no country in the world are the women 
more fascinating. In their hospitality, and liveli- 
ness of conversation, they reminded me of the ladies 
of old Ireland ! but when they dance, their atti- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 81 

tudes and movements are what shall I say? 
inspiration itself. I soon began to find myself too 
susceptible to their winning ways, and my young 
heart resembled a target, in which almost every 
shot told. 

I was astonished at not finding any female ser- 
vants in Palermo ; and when I. expressed my won- 
der, an Irish friend of mine accounted for the fact 
by stating, that all the maid servants in that part 
of the world, were men. It is said, that if the girls 
were suffered to go out as servants, they could not 
procure husbands: all Italians, the Sicilians in 
particular, being very jealous before marriage. 
This is hardly to be wondered at in Palermo, for 
there are a number of beautiful women among 
the lower order, which, " I am ashamed and 
sorry, sorry and ashamed" to say, made me every 
Sunday very religiously pay a visit to the tomb 
of Santa Rosalia, on Mount Pellegrino, where 
those good Christians go dressed, " in all their 
best," to pay their respects to their sanctified 
protectress ! 

But while I am retracing the beauties of the 
ladies, I am forgetting my pursuits and my master. 
The opera chosen by Aprile for his debut, was 
Sard's " Alessandro neir India," (the jealous Poro 
being a favourite character of his.) The Prim a 
Donna, La Signora Agatina Carara, was much clis- 

E 5 



REMINISCENCES OF 

satisfied with his choice, and the result was, bella ! 
horrida betta ! Parties ran high! Aprile, justly 
considered as the greatest of all artists, had a strong 
faction ; La Carara, one of the most beautiful 
women of her day, and a fine singer, had abund- 
ance of partisans, besides being protected by the 
committee of noblemen, five in number, (for there 
was a committee there). With them she played 
her cards so cleverly, that each supposed himself 
the favoured lover ; but in all these little delicate 
arrangements she had an able and experienced, if 
not very respectable ally, in her husband ! He, 
worthy soul, had but one weakness ; an inordinate 
love of gold, and the bearer of such arguments had 
every thing to hope from the sweetness of his dis- 
position. I never knew any man who could bow 
so gracefully, or quit a room with a better air, 
when a nobleman called upon his cara sposa ; 
fortunately he was fond of taking long walks, and 
never was known to return home at an unseasonable 
hour. 

The theatre being closed every Friday evening, 
Aprile was usually invited to concerts at private 
houses, and, as a matter of course, I went with 
him. At these parties, playing \\as almost as popu- 
lar an amusement as singing, for a Faro bank was 
always held after the music was over. There was 
frequently very high play at many houses. Sup- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 83 

pers are also introduced, of which/ fish formed a 
very important feature. Their moreau, a species 
of eel, is delicious, and only to be procured in this 
part of the Mediterranean ; their tunny fish and 
pesce spada (sword fish) are very fine ; and their 
ices, which they serve up in all shapes, are exqui- 
site, as well as their Malavisa wine, the produce of 
the Liparian Isles. Since I am touching on the 
subject, I must say, the best suppers were given 
by the Princess Villa Franca, and the Prince her 
husband, an old man, who was good tempered and 
affable, while his consort was young and perfectly 
beautiful ; their palace at the Seven Hills, a short 
distance from Palermo, was magnificent, and always 
crowded with visitors during the vintage, when all is 
life and pleasure. 

Aprile had an invitation to pass a few days at 
the country residence of his patron, Prince Val 
Guarniera, in the neighbourhood of La Bageria ; 
near it, amongst many other noblemen's houses, 
was one, I sincerely hope, the only one of its kind 

in Europe, belonging to Prince B , a sort 

of maniac ; the impression it made upon me will 
never be effaced. On entering the hall, I saw the 
heads of beautiful women, and the bodies of the 
most frightful animals ; and the body of a man 
with the head of a mastiff. The family statues 
were all fancifully clad in suits of different co- 



REMINISCENCES OF 

loured marble, with red stockings and black shoes. 
The roofs of the apartments were lined with 
looking glass, so that if five or six persons were 
moving about a room, it appeared as if an hundred 
w.ere walking on their heads. Each pane of glass 
in the windows was of a different colour, and even 
the clock in the hall was stuck into a gianf s body ! 
yet the rooms themselves were beautiful, paved 
with fine marble, and containing a profusion of 
china, and objects of taste and virtu. The princess 
dressing-room was filled with figures of snakes, 
scorpions, and other disgusting animals ; in short, 
his whole life seemed devoted to the study of the 
horrible and disgusting. 

I was particularly taken notice of by Prince 
Paterno, a man of superior wit and talent ; as 
well as by the Duke of Verdura. The Prince 
Petrapersia also favoured me with his patronage 
and friendship ; he was a very handsome man, 
famous for his strength and activity, and spoke 
excellent English. When he was going to visit 
his estates in Catania, Aprile gave me permission 
to accompany him, on condition that I returned 
in a fortnight ; we set out with a great retinue of 
servants, and six of his Highnesses body-guards, 
who, I verily believe, were banditti ! However, 
they were faithful to us, and conducted us safely to 
the palace of the Prince Budero, his Highnesses 



MICHAEL KELLY. 85 

father. After remaining there three days, we con- 
tinued our journey to Catania, to see the Prince 
Biscaria, who resided in one of the most superb 
palaces in all Sicily. I was astonished to see such 
a structure built nearly at the foot of Mount Etna, 
liable, at all times, to be swallowed up by an erup- 
tion. The Prince wished me to ascend the moun- 
tain, which, however, no persuasion could induce 
me to do. I was content to view it at an humble 
distance. I had no ambition to be deified, like the 
heathen philosopher, for throwing myself into the 
great crater ; nor had I even curiosity enough to 
visit II Castagno di centi Cavalli; I was more 
anxious to see Syracuse, Dionysius 1 Ear, and r the 
scene of the Transformation of Acis ; but, however, 
we contented ourselves, after enjoying the Prince 
Biscaria's hospitalities for a few days, with return- 
ing to Palermo, where we found the whole popu- 
lation alive, making preparations for the grand fete 
of Santa Rosalia, which was to take place in a few 
days. 

On the 12th of July, the saint's natal day, the 
annual festival commenced. From Aprile's house, 
in the Strada del Cassaro, we had a fine view of the 
procession, which commenced at five in the evening, 
and passed from the Marino to the Porto Felice : 
all the military in and about Palermo were assem- 
bled to protect it. Among them, on the present 



86 REMINISCENCES OF 



occasion, were a Swiss regiment and the Irish Jbri- 
gade, a fine set of men. The car on which the 
saint was carried, was an enormous machine, drawn 
by forty mules, richly caparisoned, with twenty 
postilions in blue and silver : near the bottom of the 
car was a large orchestra ; the musicians placed in 
rows above each other, the whole interspersed with 
a precious assortment of angels, saints, artificial 
trees of coral, orange, lemon, &c. ; and surmount- 
ing all, on the dome of the car, and as high as the 
houses themselves, stood a large silver statue of 
the saint herself. The procession lasted till eight 
o'clock, when the illumination on the Marino com- 
menced, the whole chain of which continued a mile 
in length. Imagination can picture nothing so 
splendid as the fire-works which were then dis- 
played. On the sea stood an immense palace of 
fire, and all the shipping, gallies, &c. were bril- 
liantly lighted up. 

The second day commenced with horse-racing, 
of a nature to an Englishman extremely strange. 
The horses, eight or ten in number, have no riders, 
but stand in a row, held by their fine manes by 
grooms ; they are almost covered with ribands of 
different colours : the grooms find it difficult to 
restrain them till the signal is fired from the 

Corso. 

At the sound of the cannon, they start with the 



MICHAEL KELLY. 87 

fieetness of the wind, and the sight is really beauti- 
ful. The conqueror is led back in triumph, and 
hailed with trumpets, kettle drums, and the shouts 
of the populace, who vociferate, with all their 
might, " Viva il bel cavallo ! viva mille anni !"" 
(May the beautiful horse live a thousand years !) 
All this time, the noble animal stalks majestically 
through the Corso, as if conscious of his triumph, 
and the applause bestowed upon him. I have seen 
races in many countries, but none which gave me 
such true delight as tli3se in Palermo. On the 
third night, the Marino, the Flora Gardens, and 
the four gates of the city were illuminated. There 
was music in the Chiesa Grande, where four large 
orchestras were erected, which contained all the 
principal musicians in the island, and many from the 
kingdom of Naples, both vocal and instrumental ; 
the whole was under the direction of Aprile, and 
there was my first regular appearance. I sang a 
mottetto, composed by the celebrated Genario 
Mano. Aprile had taken great pains with me in 
it, and appeared fully satisfied with my execution 
of it*, 

* It may not be thought unworthy of remark, that the first and 
only native of Great Britain that ever sang at that festival, or, 
indeed, in any church in Sicily, was myself. The circumstance 
was considered so extraordinary, that Aprile had my name and 
country inserted in the archives of the church. 



88 REMINISCENCES OF 

I think when the church was completely illumi- 
nated, the walls, pillars, and roof ornamented with 
artificial flowers, gold and silver paper, interwoven 
with the lights, nothing earthly could surpass the 
coup-'Z 1 ceil ; the eye absolutely shrank from the 
splendour of the blaze. 

I continued my old routine with my master ; 
and going to the parterre of the theatre one evening, 
on seeing an empty seat, I sat down. A very 
pretty woman sat next to me, with whom I entered 
into conversation. At the end of the first act of 
the opera, a young gentleman, who, I afterwards 
found, was the Marchese St. Lucia, and the pro- 
fessed cicisbeo of the lady I was speaking to, came 
to me, and said, " How dare you, you insolent 
fellow, place yourself in a seat that belongs to me ?" 
I answered truly, that had I known the seat to be 
his, I would not have taken it. His reply to this 
pacific speech, was a thump on the head, which I 
repaid with interest. But in an instant, I was 
seized ; and, for the heinous crime of returning a 
blow, was hurried to prison, and left there amongst 
culprits of every description. My entree seemed 
to create a bustle amongst them, and I felt myself 
a personage of importance. 

About a dozen of them messed together, and 
invited me to sup with them ; and I can say, with 
justice, I never passed a more jolly night in my 



MICHAEL KELLY 89 

life I They had some good pesce spada for supper, 
arid plenty of wine. They sang, and told laughable 
stories. One of them had been a captain of Cala- 
brian banditti, previous to which, he had been the 
hero of the pickpockets on the Largo di Castello 
at Naples. He told us many of his exploits, and 
something of his education. When a boy, he had 
been placed at a school, where his trade was re- 
gularly taught. A large figure, made of straw, 
was placed in the middle of a room, about which 
were arranged watches, trinkets, pocket handker- 
chiefs, &c. &c. The master of the school (and a 
very great master of arts he was), stood by and 
gave instructions. No one was allowed to be an 
adept, or fit to take the field, till he could rob the 
figure without being observed, or deranging a 
single straw. 

They recounted many anecdotes ; the following 
one of the celebrated Gabrielli, though well known, 
I cannot refrain from repeating, as she had, in con- 
sequence, remained several days in the very room 
we then occupied. Gabrielli, though beautiful, gene- 
rous, and rich, had a most capricious temper. She 
was the idol of the Palermitans ; notwithstanding^ 
one evening, on which a new opera was to have 
been performed, as they were going to begin, the 
house being crowded, and the Viceroy and court 
present, she sent word she had a head-ache, and 



90 REMINISCENCES OF 

could not perform. Every endeavour of the manager 
and her friends to induce her to fulfil her duty, only 
rendered her the more obstinate ; and even the 
threat of a dungeon, from the Viceroy, had no effect ; 
at length, after exhausting every other method to 
restore her to reason, a guard seized and conducted 
her to prison. She told the captain of the guard, 
with the greatest sang froid, " Your Viceroy may 
make me cry, but he shall not make me sing. 1 ' 
After remaining two days in confinement, she was 
released. But while in prison, she feasted the 
prisoners sumptuously, and on her departure, dis- 
tributed a large sum amongst the poorer class of 
them. It was said that she never would have re- 
turned to the theatre had she not entertained a 
penchant for the manager. 

This affection of her's commenced in rather a 
strange manner. When she was performing at 
the theatre St. Carlo, at Naples, and living in great 
splendour with Count Kaunitz, the manager wrote 
to her, requesting to know what terms she would 
accept for singing one season at his theatre at 
Palermo. She answered, " If you will build a 
bridge that will reach from Naples to Palermo, I 
will sing for you, not else ;" to which he replied, 
" Madam, if you can recollect, and will give me a 
list of ALL those on whom you have bestowed 
favours, in the course of your life, I will build the 



MICHAEL KELLY. 91 

bridge you mention ; not else." She was puzzled, 
and the negociation dropped ; however, when they 
met, shortly after this free and easy beginning, they 
became excellent friends. 

I was detained in prison for three days, and 
was only liberated through great interest. I re- 
turned to my master, who received me with his 
usual kindness, and applauded my spirit for not 
receiving a blow without returning it. The termi- 
nation of his engagement approached, when he pro- 
posed returning to Naples. He called me to him 
one morning, and after hearing me sing half a 
dozen songs, in which he had taken great pains in 
my instruction, said, " w The time of our separa- 
tion is approaching ; your talent will now procure 
you an engagement in any theatre in Europe. I 
have written to Campigli, the manager of the 
Pergola theatre in Florence (he was also a sort of 
agent, and was, at that time, in correspondence with, 
and furnished every Italian opera in Europe with 
singers, dancers, composers, &c.) ; he will be glad 
to see you, and under his care and patronage you 
cannot fail of success, because you have the peculiar 
distinction of being the only public scholar I ever 
taught. A Syracusan polacre will sail in a few 
days for Leghorn, in which I will procure you a 
passage, and will give you several letters of re- 
commendation; and so 5 Godblessyou 3 my good boy !" 



REMINISCENCES OF 

I was overwhelmed with melancholy at the 
thought of leaving my kind, liberal, and great 
master. He was a man of the most honourable and 
independent mind I ever met, and considered an 
excellent scholar. He took great pains to explain 
Metastasio, and other great Italian poets to me, and 
particularly inculcated a love of truth, and a horror 
of committing a mean action. I may truly say, with 
Nicodeme, in the French play, " Le maitre qui prit 
soin de former majeunesse, ne wCajamais ctppris a 
faire une bassesse" 

I prevailed on him to accept, as a remembrance, 
the piano-forte I brought from Ireland ; it was my 
only possession, but I declare that had it been worth 
thousands, it would have been his; my love and 
gratitude to him were so strong*. 

The day arrived when I was to leave my beloved 
master. He amply provided me for the voyage, 

* Many years afterwards, when dining with my dear and 
lamented friend, the late Lady Hamilton, at Merton, I had the 
pleasure of hearing of this circumstance from the illustrious 
Lord Nelson, near whom 1 had the honour of being seated at 
table. He said, " Mr. Kelly, when in Naples, I have frequently 
heard your old master, Aprile, speak of you with great affection, 
though he said, that when with him, you were as wild as a colt. 
He mentioned, also, your having given him your piano-forte, 
which, he said, nothing should induce him to part with." I 
confess I was much gratified by the repetition of this trifling 
anecdote. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 93 

and paid my passage, giving me, at the same time, 
thirty Neapolitan ounces., which were sufficient to 
take me to Florence, where I might expect an 
engagement. After taking an affectionate leave of 
me, he sent his faithful valet Giuseppe, a Milanese, 
who had lived with him several years, in the boat 
with me, to see me safe on board. Giuseppe was a 
worthy creature, but as vain of his hair-dressing as 
the elder Vestris was of his dancing, and flourished 
his comb with as much grace and dignity as le Dieu 
de dance moved the minuet de la cour. Poor 
fellow, he shed tears at parting with me, and 
said, " Farewell, Signor ! remember your attached 
Giuseppe ; in whatever part of the world you may 
be, if embarrassed, write to me, and I will go to you. 
/ can live any where, for in classical hair-dressing I 
will yield to none, however illustrious ; and thank 
heaven ! in these days, the comb takes the lead of 
every thing." 

The wind was fair, and we set sail from beautiful 
Sicily, " where Ceres loves to dwell." I was dread- 
fully sick during the first day and night., and obliged 
to keep below. The second, I went on deck, and 
had a view of the Lipari Islands, famous for their 
delicious wines; Stromboli, their chief, was out 
of humour, for it poured forth volumes of flame. 
It is said that this mountain discharges a greater 
quantity of lava than either Etna or Vesuvius, and 
never ceases roaring ! On the third morning, I was 



REMINISCENCES OF 

roused by a dreadful noise on deck; when I went 

up, all was uproar ; at last the captain told me we 

, were pursued by a Turkish galera ; the crew, 

instead of working the vessel and endeavouring to 

o o 

escape, were on their knees, each praying to his 
patron saint ! some one of which, however, was 
propitious, for a stout breeze springing up, we got 
close in shore, and lost sight of the terrible galera. 
After being six days at sea, during the last of which 
it blew a complete hurricane, at eight o'clock in the 
morning we arrived in the bay of Leghorn, and lay 
close to the Lazzaretto ; it is a beautiful building, 
and was then used as an hospital for seamen. After 
we had been visited by the officers of health, I went 
on shore to shew my passport at the Custom-house; 
I had on a Sicilian capote, with my hair (of which 
I had a great quantity, and which, like my com- 
plexion, was very fair) floating over it : I was as thin 
as a walking stick. As I stepped from the boat, I 
perceived a young lady and gentleman standing on 
the Mole, making observations ; as the former looked 
at me she laughed, and as I approached, I heard 
her say to her companion in English, which, of 
course, she thought I did not understand, " Look 
at that girl dressed in boy's clothes !" To her 
astonishment, I answered in the same language, 
" You are mistaken, Miss, I am a very proper he 
animal, and quite at your service !" 

We all laughed till we were tired, and became 



MICHAEL KELLY. 95 

immediately intimate; and these persons, my ac- 
quaintance with whom commenced by this childish 
jest on the Mole at Leghorn, continued through life 
the warmest and most attached of my friends. All 
love and honour to your memories, Stephen and 
Nancy Storace ! He was well known afterwards, as 
one of the best of English composers ; and she was 
at that time, though only fifteen, the prima donna of 
the Comic Opera at Leghorn. They were Lon- 
doners, and their real name wanted the , which 
they introduced into it. Their father was a Neapo- 
litan, and a good performer on the double bass, 
which he played for many years at the Opera House, 
when the band was led by the celebrated Giardini. 
He married one of the Misses Trusler of Bath, 
celebrated for making a peculiar sort of cake, and 
sister to Doctor Trusler, well known in the literary 
world as a chronologist. 

The elder Storace, Doctor Arnold, and Lowe, the 
singer, opened Mary-le-bone Gardens for the per- 
formance of burlettas, Sec. &c. Owing; to the at- 

* o 

traction of the music, and Miss Trusler's plum- 
cakes, the Gardens were successful for a time ; but, 
disagreeing among themselves, the proprietors closed 
them, I believe, with loss. 

When Mr, Sheridan married Miss Linley, and 
brought her from Bath, their first lodging in Lon- 
don was at Mr. Storace^s house, in Mary-le-bone, 



96 REMINISCENCES OF 

and from that time a strong friendship existed 

between the families. Nancy, the only daughter, 

" . 

could play and sing at sight as early as eight 

years old; she evinced an extraordinary genius for 
music ; and Stephen the son, foreyemj thing / He 

was the most gifted creature I ever met with ! 

i j T 

an enthusiast and a genius. But in music and 



painting he was positively occult ! I have often 
heard Mr. Sheridan say, that if he had been bred 
to the law, he thought he would have been Lord 
Chancellor. 

* 

His father sent him, when very young, to the 

j * o' . 

Conservatorio St. Onofrio at Naples, to which he 

* 

became a great ornament. Nancy Storace had the 
singular good fortune to be instructed by Sachjni, 
and Rauzzini, in England ; and after making pro- 
digious progress under them, her father took her 
to Naples, where she sang at some of the Oratorios 
given at the theatre St. Carlo, during Lent. She 
was very well liked, and afterwards went to 
Florence, where the celebrated soprano singer, 
Marchesi, was engaged at the Pergola theatre. 
He was then in his prime, and attracted not only 
all Florence, but I may say all Tuscany: Storace 
was engaged to sing second woman in his operas ; 
and to the following circumstance, well known all 
over the Continent, did she owe her sudden ele- 
vation in her profession. 

i 



MICHAEL KELLY. 97 

Bianchi had composed the celebrated cavatina, 
" Sembianza amabile del mio bel sole, 11 which Mar- 
ches! sung with most ravishing taste; in one 
passage he ran up a voletta of semitone octaves, 
the last note of which he gave with such exquisite 
power and strength, that it was ever after called 
" La bomba di Marchesi !" Immediately after this 
song, Storace had to sing one, and was determined 
to shew the audience that she could bring a bomba 
into the field also. She attempted it, and executed 
it, to the admiration and astonishment of the 
audience, but to the dismay of poor Marchesi. 
Campigli, the manager, requested her to discontinue 
it, but she peremptorily refused, saying, that she 
had as good a right to shew the power of her 
bomba as any body else. The contention was 
brought to a close, by Marchesi"s declaring, that 
if she did not leave the theatre, lie would ; and 
unjust as it was, the manager was obliged to dis- 
miss her, and engage another lady, who was not so 
ambitious of exhibiting a bomba. 

From Florence she went to Lucca, and from 
thence to Leghorn, where I met her, and where 
she was a very great favourite. I dined with her 
and her brother the very memorable day of my 
landing ; and Stephen, who had a wonderfully 
quick conception, intuitively, as it were, inquired 
into the state of my finances. I honestly told him 
VOL. i. F 



98 REMINISCENCES OF 

that they were not in a very flourishing condition. 
" We must endeavour to recruit them," said he. 
I mentioned, that I had a letter from Aprile to 
a Signer Chiotti, an opulent jeweller, who was an 
amateur and director of the concerts. He told me 
that Chiotti could be of great use to me if ,1 
took a concert, and he had no doubt the opera 
people would sing for nothing for me. Ever warm 
and active, my dear Stephen introduced me the next 
day to the British Consul, and the Messrs. Darby, 
eminent mercantile men, residing -at Leghorn, 
brothers of Mrs. Robinson, the beautiful Perdita ; 
and two Scotch families, the Grants and Frazers, 
patronized me, and I had a crowded concert 
room, the nett produce, eighty zee-chinos ; and 
above all, to me, my singing was very much 
approved. 

My time passed delightfully while I remained 
in Leghorn. The Russian fleet were at anchor 
in the Bay, commanded by Admiral O'Dwyer, a 
distinguished seaman, and an Irishman by birth. 
The Storaces and myself often went on board his 
ship, and were delighted by hearing the Russians 
chaunt their evening hymn. The melody is beauti- 
fully simple, and was always sung completely in 
tune, by this immense body of men. There was 
at the same time, in the harbour, a privateer from 
Dublin, called the Fame, Captain Moore : he and 



MICHAEL KELLY. 99 

his first officer, Campbell, were Irishmen, and had a 
fine set of Irish lads under them. When Storace^s 
benefit took place, the officers and crew, who could 
be spared from their duty, to a man (and a famous 
sight it was), marched to the theatre, and almost 
filled the parterre. At the end of the opera, Storace 
sung the Irish ballad, "Molly Ahstore," on the 
conclusion of which, the boatswain of the Fame 
gave a loud whistle, and the crew, en masse, rose 
and gave*three cheers. The dismay of the Italian 
part of the audience was ludicrous in the extreme. 
The sailors then sang " God save the King" in full 
chorus, and when done, applauded themselves to 
the very skies : nothing could be more unanimous 
or louder than their self-approbation. 

At length, Stephen Storace took his departure 
for England, and I for Lucca. I was very much 
affected when I saw him sail, and set out on my 
journey with a very heavy heart. At Lucca I re- 
mained two days. The country of this little com- 
monwealth is delightful : the oil of Lucca is the 
best in Europe; the inhabitants are industrious, 
and call their country the Garden of Europe. They 
were then governed by a Doge, whom they, choose 
every two months. They always dressed in black, 
to save expense, though living is remarkably cheap. 
The baths are considered highly salutary, and are 
a few miles out of the town. They have a grand 



100 PxEMIXISCENCES OF 

musical festival for the feast of the Holy Cross. 
An old lady, a native of Lucca, left a large sum of 

* s O 

money to be disposed of in ,the following manner : 
every musician who came to the festival of the 
Holy Cross, (and at that time they pour in from all 
parts of Italy,) was to be paid a stated price, at so 
much a mile, be the distance what it would ! Her 
ladyship's executor had no sinecure. Pachierotti 
once sang at this festival, and was also engaged at 
the theatre. The common people of Lucca have 
the reputation of being great tricksters. They 
have a saying, " Sono un Luchese, ma vi sono dei 
buoni e cattivi al mio paese." " I am a Luchese, 
but there are good, as well as bad, in my country." 
Aretin the satirist, yclept " the Bitter Tuscan," 
and who hated Lucca for some slight shewn to 
him, said, that when their best actress was acting 
with energy, she always threw one, or both of her 
arms, out of the republic ; meaning it w r as so con- 
temptibly small. In my time there was a custom 
of sending presents of sweetmeats, for which they 
are famous, and oil, to all foreigners of distinction 
wlio visit their town. I wished much to remain 
there longer, but was obliged to hurry on to Pisa, 
where I arrived the following day. 

On my arrival I immediately sought out Viganoni, 
the charming tenor singer, so well known in this 
country. He was decidedly the best mezzo carattere 



MICHAEL KELLY. 101 

in Italy ; he was engaged at the theatre, and his 
prima donna was Signora Clementina Bagliona. 
When I delivered my letter of introduction to him, 
he took me to see her. They both behaved with 
great kindness to me, and invited me to stay n 
week at their house ; an invitation which I was the 
more inclined to accept, as, during that particular 
week, the festival of the Battle of the Bridge, so 
renowned and so extraordinary, was appointed to 
take place. 

It would hardly be believed, if it were not gene-, 
rally known, that upon this occasion, two armies of 
citizens, accoutred cap-a-pie, the one representing 
the army of St. J ohn the Baptist, the other, that of 
St. Antonio, meet to dispute the passage of a bridge 
across the Arno, and do not separate till one or 
other has conquered. The battle is real, and con- 
tested with the most inveterate obstinacy, many of 
the combatants being desperately wounded, and 
sometimes killed. 

Surely this barbarous custom is unworthy a civi- 
lized nation. 

Previous to the exhibition of this extraordinary 
spectacle, Viganoni took me to see the baths, which 
are considered extremely efficacious in pulmonary 
complaints. They are admirably constructed, and 
are visited by invalids from all parts of Europe, 



102 REMINISCENCES OF 

amongst whom are many English. While there, 
a man was pointed out to me, whose head was 
shaved, and who wore the dress of a galley- 
slave, sweeping the baths. He did the most 
laborious work by day, and at night was chained 
on board a Tuscan galley, which lay in the 
Arno. This man was the well-known Giuseppe 
Afrissa, who had visited and been received at all 
the courts of Europe; and at Vienna, had been in 
such favour with the Emperor Francis I. and 
his Empress, Maria Theresa, that he sat at their 
table, and was appointed Master of the Revels at 
Schoenbrunn and all the royal palaces ! He was 
banished from Vienna for some disgraceful act, 
but not before he had contrived to lose at the 
gaming-table every shilling of a large fortune, 
which he had originally acquired there. He re- 
turned to Turin, his native place, where he joined 
with four notorious swindlers, who travelled into 
various countries, committing forgeries. In Eng- 
land and Holland they were particularly successful. 
At length Afrissa was arrested in his career at 
Pisa, by a Dutch merchant, on whom he had com- 
mitted a forgery to an immense amount; he was 
tried, and condemned to hard labour as a galley- 
slave for life. When seized, he w r as in company 

with one of his associates, a Genoese, who instantly 

' 






MICHAEL KELLY. 103 

took a small phial from his pocket and swallowed 
the contents. He died in great agonies. Of the 
fate of the rest of the gang, I never heard any thing. 

I remember well, that the day on which I saw 
this man, I dined with Signora Bagliona, and Signor 
Soderini, who had just returned from England, 
where he had been for several years one of the 
violin players at the Opera House, while Giardini 
was leader. He was one of the ugliest men I ever 
saw. When M. Favar was first ballet-inaster, 
Soderini went on the stage, after the rehearsal, 
and said to him, " Allow me, my dear Sir, to 
introduce myself to you ; you are the dearest 
friend I have on earth, let me thank you a thou- 
sand times for the happiness you have conferred 
on me by coming amongst us; command me in 
any way, for whatever I do for you, I can never 
sufficiently repay you !" 

The ballet-master, who had never seen or heard 
of Soderini before, was astounded ; at last, he said, 
" Pray, Sir, to what peculiar piece of good fortune 
may I attribute the compliments and professions 
with which you favour me ?" 

" To your unparalleled ugliness, my dear Sir,"" 

replied Soderini; "for before your arrival, I was 

considered the ugliest man in Great Britain." 

The ballet-master, (strange to say, since he really 

was so ugly,) took the joke in good part, and they 



104 REMINISCENCES OF 

became extremely intimate ; but amiable as they 
were to each other, they were universally known as 
the ugly couple ! This anecdote Soderini told me 
himself. 

I was very much stricken at Pisa with the 
resemblance which the quays of that city bear to 
those of Dublin. The cathedral and leaning tower 
are beautiful and curious; yet, of all places in 
Italy, I left Pisa with the least regret ; its sombre 
appearance, and want of amusement, did not at 
all suit my mercurial spirits ; and, although 
extremely grateful to my friend Viganoni for his 
hospitality, I confess I felt almost pleased when I 
quitted it. 

The following evening I reached Florence; 
Florence too, that was to make my future fortunes, 
or un-make them quite. I went direct to an 
English hotel, kept by an Englishman of the name 
of Meggot, where I had a very good bed-room and 
board, at the rate of three shillings English per 
day. Immediately upon my arrival, I called upon 
Signor Campigli, a rich jeweller, who was also 
manager of the Pergola theatre : he was, besides, a 
sensale (a broker), and furnished theatres with 
performers, for which he received a per centage 
from both manager and singer. He was very rich, 
and his influence supposed to be so great, that 
no performer dared risk making him an enemy, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 105 

Pachierotti alone excepted, who has declared to 
me, that he never would have dealings with a man 
whom he considered, half jokingly, a trafficker in 
human flesh. But Pachierotti was at this time 
immensely wealthy, and could do what he chose. 
Independent of the fortune which his talents secured 
him, he was supposed to have received large sums 
from an English lady of high birth, who was said 
to be fervently attached to him. 

The shop of this Campigli was on the Ponte cli 
Trinita. I found him at home, and delivered 
my letter from Aprile : after reading it, he told me, 
that I had just ccme in the nick of time, as he 
could offer me an engagement as first comic tenor, 
at the Teatro Nuovo, which was to be opened, for 
the first time, the week after Easter. If I accepted 
it, I should have to perform from the middle of 
April till the end of June, for fifty zecchinos, about 
231. sterling, which 1 was glad enough to get, con- 
sidering that the engagement was on the spot. 

I next delivered my letter of recommendation to 
Lord Cowper, who received me with the greatest 
kindness. His Lordship had most pleasing and 
affable manners. He spent his princely fortune 
with the greatest liberality, patronising the arts and 
artists nobly; arid mdeed, had more influence isi 
Florence than the Grand Duke himself His Lord- 
ship invited me to dinner. Sir Horace Mann, our 



106 REMINISCENCES OF 

minister at the court of Tuscany, then very old, 
and Mr. Merry, the Delia Cruscan, who afterwards 
married the elder Miss Brunton, of Covent Garden 
Theatre, sister of the present Countess of Craven, 
were of the party. 

In the evening, Lady Cowper gave a concert to 
a large party. There I had the gratification of 
hearing a sonata on the violin played by the great 
Nardini ; though very far advanced in years, he 
played divinely. He spoke with great affection 
of his favourite scholar, Thomas Linley, who, he 
said, possessed powerful abilities. Lord Cowper 
requested him to play the popular sonata, composed 
by his master, Tartini, called the Devil's Sonata. 
Mr. Jackson, an English gentleman present, asked 
Nardini, whether the anecdote relative to this piece of 
music was true, for Mr. de la Lande had assured Dr. 
Burney that he had it from Tartini^s own mouth. 

Nardini answered, that he had frequently heard 
Tartini relate the circumstance, which was neither 
more nor less than this : He said that one night he 
dreamed that he had entered into a contract with 
the devil, in fulfilment of which his satanic majesty 
was bound to perform all his behests. He placed 
his violin in his hands, and asked him to play ; and 
the devil played a sonata so exquisite, that in the 
delirium of applause which he was bestowing, 
he awoke, and flew to the instrument to endeavour 



MICHAEL KELLY. 107 

to retain some of the passages, but in vain ! they 
had fled ! yet the sonata haunted his imagination 
day and night, and he endeavoured to compose one 
in imitation, which he called " The DeviPs Sonata :" 
but it w r as so inferior to the sonata of his dream, 
that he has been heard to say, that if he had had 
any other mode of gaining a living, he would have 
left the musical profession. I hope my being able 
to add the additional authority of Nardini himself, 
as to the truth of this anecdote, will be my excuse 
for repeating what has been so ably related by 
Dr. Burney. Nardini was the favourite scholar of 
Tartini, and was allowed to possess more of his 
master's excellence than any other. 

The opera in which I was to make my appearance 
at Florence, was " II Francese in Italia,"" the 
Frenchman in Italy. I was to play the Frenchman, 
and as it was a good part, Lord Cowper advised 
me to take some lessons in acting, for which pur- 
pose he introduced me to Laschi, who had been the 
greatest actor of the day, but was at that time 
living in retirement at a country-house near Flo- 
rence. He undertook to instruct me, and did it 
con amore ; nothing could exceed the pains he took 
with me, and I endeavoured by rigid attention to 
reap the full benefit of his instruction. 

Campigli advised me to leave my lodging at the 
hotel, and placed me in the house of one Signer 



108 REMINISCENCES OF 

Cechi, his stage-manager, a very good sort of man, 
who took in theatrical people. (If I might be 
allowed a pun, I should say, more managers than 
one do that.) At his house I had a good bed-room.,, 
the use of a large drawing-room, in common with 
other boarders, with breakfast, dinner, coffee, 
supper, and as much of the wine of the country as 
I chose every day, for 1Z. 1.5$. British money, per 
month ! ff ^\\ 

Amongst the boarders was Signor Andreozzi, 
who was then composing an opera for the Pergola 
theatre. He was an eccentric man and a great 
genius, and his language was always technical. 
He told me one morning that he had just called 
upon Morichelli, the prima donna in his opera, 
for whom he was composing a song. " I found 
her," said he, " in a motivo penseroso. I approached 
her in andante Siciliano, followed by a movement 
allegretto vivace , when she ran up a division of 
abuse con spirito, and came out with two false fifths 
and a change of key so discordant, that I was 

O J 

obliged to quit the house in a motto prestissimo, to 
volti subito and run down stairs, leaving her scream- 
ing in tempo furioso /" 

The rehearsals began ; we had a fine orchestra 
and a good company. My prima donna was Signoni 
Lortinella, a native of Rome : she was called Orta- 
belia, from her extraordinary beauty ; indeed, I 



MICHAEL KELLY. 109 

never saw any thing more lovely than she was ; she 
was also a very fine singer. Signer Morigi, the 
primo buffo, who had been so popular in London 
in the part of the German Soldier, in Piccini's 
" La Buona Figliuola." He was still a great actor, 
though infirm. He never sung his old song, 
" Paterno Giudizzio," without applause ; for if the 
audience failed, he never failed to applaud himself. 
He would make his exit, clapping his hands loudly, 
and saying, " Well ! if they want taste, I do not !" 
One thing I must say of him, poor fellow ! during 
the whole time T knew him I never once saw him 
guilty of ebriety ! yet, having been a great fa- 
vourite, the sober Tuscans laughed at him and 
with him, and found an excuse for his failing in his 
misfortunes ; they said he was driven to the last and 
worst resource of the unhappy by the death of his 
only child, a beautiful girl, full of talent and pro- 
mise, who lost her senses, and died in a mad-house 
in Bologna in her twenty-third year ! 

The eventful night fixed for my first appearance 
at length arrived. I made my d&but, and received 
a most flattering reception. I was encored in two 
of my songs and a duet. Though, at that time, 
I would not have exchanged situations with the 
Grand Duke himself, I was so elated by my success ; 
yet I could not avoid attributing it, in a great 
measure, to my extreme youth, and the strong 



110 REMINISCENCES OF 

party made for me by Lord and Lady Cowper, 
and all the English that were in Florence ; besides, 
I was the first British male singer who had ever 
sung in Italy, or indeed on the Continent. Several 
other persons of distinction also patronised my first 
appearance, which was honoured by the presence of 
the Pretender, who entered his box before the opera 
began. He was at that time very old and infirm, 
yet there appeared the remains of a very handsome 
man. He was very tall, but stooped considerably, 
and was usually supported by two of his suite, 
between whom he hobbled ; in this state he visited 
one of the theatres every night (he had a box in 
each) ; in a few minutes after he was seated, he 
fell asleep, and continued to slumber during the 
whole performance. The Italians always called him 
the King of England, and he had the arms of 
England over the gates of his palace, and all his 
servants wore the royal livery. The order of the 
Garter, which he wore when I saw him, he left to 
his natural daughter, Princess Stoiberg. 

The magnificent theatre, La Pergola, was opes 
at this time ; during the spring season, it was con- 
sidered the first in Italy. Here I first saw our old 
favourite, Rovedino, perform with the prima donna 
La Morichelli, and excellent they both were, in 
Anfossi's comic opera, u II Viaggiatore Felice." 
There w r as another theatre, a small one, La Via 



MICHAEL KELLY. Ill 

del Cocomera, in which Morelli had often delighted 
the Florentines with his magnificent bass voice, 
which, take it for all in all, was the finest I have 
ever heard. 

It is perhaps not generally known, that, in the 
early part of his life, Morelli was Lord Cowper's 
volante, or running footman. One night, when 
going to bed, his Lordship's attention was attracted 
by some one singing an air, from an opera then in 
vogue ; the person was seated on the steps of a 
church, opposite to his Lordship's palace: the 
prodigious quality of the voice, the fine ear and 
excellent taste displayed, astonished his Lordship. 
He ordered his valet to inquire who the extra- 
ordinary performer could be ; the valet replied, 
" that he knew very well ; it was young Giovanni, 
one of his Lordship's volantes. His ear for music 
is so perfect," said the valet, <; that whatever he 
hears, he catches instantly : he often sings to the 
servants, and is the delight of us ail."' The follow- 
ing morning, Giovanni was ushered into his Lord- 
ship's breakfast room, where he sang several songs, 
in a style and with execution to surprise him still 
more ! His Lordship ordered Signor Mansoli, 
Signor Verolli, and Camparini, Maestro di Cappella 
to the Grand Duke, to hear him : they all declared 
it the finest voice they had ever heard, and that he 
only wanted instruction to become the very first bass 



REMINISCENCES OF 

singer in the world ! " Then," said Lord Cowpeiv 
" that he shall not want long, from this moment 
I take him under my protection, and he shall have 
the best instruction Italy can afford." 

His Lordship kept his word ; and for two years, 
Morelli had the first masters that money could pro- 
cure. At the end of that time, he was engaged as 
primo buffo at Leghorn. He then went the round 
of all the principal theatres with great eclat. At 
the Teatro della Valle in Rome, he was perfectly 
idolized, often singing at the Carnival. He was 
engaged at the Pergola theatre ; and his success, 
on his return to Florence, was triumphant indeed ! 
I have often heard him say, that the proudest day 
of his life was that on which his former master, Lord 
Cowper, invited him to dine with him. This must, 
indeed, have been gratifying to him ; but what 
honour does it not reflect on the liberality of his noble 
and generous patron ! 

I had the good fortune to be noticed by Signor 
Giuarduci, the celebrated soprano, and he gave me 
a few lessons. He had been the first cantabile 
singer of his time, and his sostenuto singing was still 
admirable. I went to pass a few days with him, at 
a villa which he had built, on his retirement from 
public life, at Montefiascone, his native town. ' From 
the house, there were beautiful views of the Lake 
of Balseno, and the Hills of Viterbo; but the pros- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 113 

pect most interesting to me, was the vineyard ! 
The wines of Montefiascone are considered ex- 
quisite, and I must say, I proved my opinion of 
them by copious libations ! Fortunately, Signor 
Giuarduci was a liberal and hospitable landlord; 
and I shall ever retain a grateful sense of his 
kindness. 

While performing at Florence, I received a letter 
from Mr. Linley, the father-in-law of Mr. Sheridan, 
and joint patentee with him in Drury Lane Theatre, 
offering me an engagement for five years, as first 
singer; and I was on the point of replying to him, 
when I received another letter from him, stating, 
that he must reluctantly decline entering into any 
engagement with me for the present, as he had re- 
ceived a prohibition from my father, who even 
threatened to take legal means to prevent it ; which, 
my being under age, allowed him to do. I thought 
this both hard and unaccountable, but, as there was 
no remedy, I was obliged to submit. I afterwards 
learned that this gave great mortification to Stephen 
Storace, who was in England, and the originator of 
the offer to me. 

At the latter part of June, my engagement ended 
at Florence ; but my friend Campigli told me, he 
could offer me an engagement for the Teatro 
Saint Moise, at Venice, as first tenor singer in the 
comic opera. This pleasing intelligence I received 



114 REMINISCENCES OF 

most graciously, and gladly accepted the engage- 
ment. 

During July and August, I was on the pave, 
without an engagement ; but I had youth, health, 
and high spirits, with certain zecchinos remaining 
in my pocket to give them play : add to these, that 
I had very good friends in Florence ; Lord Cow- 
per's house was always open to me, as was that of 
our Ambassador; and the Polish Prince, Ponia- 
towski, a fine young man, who spoke English 
fluently, invited me to his concerts and dinners, and 
gave me frequent marks of his esteem. There was 
also a Mr. Faulkner, who was very kind to me, and 
who feasted the Florentines sumptuously. 

Florence is a delightful place to live in ; the climate 
is pure, the country charming, and the city mag- 
nificent. In my time, the Trinita Bridge (the most 
beautiful bridge in the world, built entirely of white 
marble, and adorned with four fine statues, repre- 
senting the Seasons,) was the constant place of resort 
for serenaders of all descriptions. Every square, 
street, indeed every corner of this superb city, is 
filled with statuary, architecture, and paintings, by 
Michael Angelo, Bandinelli, Benvenuto Cellini, &c. 
&c. In the fifteenth century, a rich merchant called 
Pitti, built the fine palace which still bears his name ; 
but overwhelmed by the expense, he became a 
bankrupt, and the palace was purchased by the 



MICHAEL KELLY. 115 

Medici family. It has continued ever since the resi- 
dence of the Grand Dukes of Tuscany. 

The Dominican church was richly hung with 
striped silk, red and yellow. The monks of the 
convent had in it an apothecary's shop, in which 
they made up medicines of the best quality, and sold 
them at a very cheap rate : they also sold all kinds 
of perfumery. The church of St. Marc is a very 
fine structure ; the remains of the celebrated Politian 
are buried there. 

The Casano Wood, something resembling our 
Hyde Park, is a delightful ride, where the nobility 
drove their own carriages ; on the holidays parti- 
cularly, the whole population of Florence assembled 
there ; and there II Commandatore Pazzi, a noble- 
man of immense fortune, used to exhibit his coach- 
manship, driving his phaeton with six cream-coloured 
horses, which he managed with great dexterity. 
The Baboli Gardens were much frequented in the 
evening, and were very beautiful. The peasantry 
of the environs of Florence are considered rich, 
and all, in a greater or less degree, gifted with 
a talent for poetry. No young man would dare 
to approach his mistress if he were not able to 
declare his passion in verse, or improvvisare on her 
beauties ! 

During my idle time, I went with a large party 
to Forligani, about twenty-five miles from Florence, 



116 REMINISCENCES OF 

in the Upper Val di Arno, to witness the grand fes- 
tival, in honour of Santa Massinina. It is a curious 
fact, that for months, sixteen or seventeen thousand 
of the peasantry are kept in training to represent the 
story of David and Goliath. They form two grand 
armies, the Philistines and the Israelites. Their 
kings, princes, &c. are all dressed magnificently in 
ancient costume, with ancient martial instruments, 
&c. on both sides. The programme was very clearly 
made out, and well executed. The whole of the 
challenge, David's acceptance of it, his breaking his 
adversary's head with a stone, and then cutting it 
off with his own sword, were all performed in very 
excellent pantomime. After the general battle and 
route of the Philistines, the Israelites return, and 
place David in a triumphal car ; his prisoners fol- 
lowing, amidst the clang of martial instruments, and 
the shouts of between twenty and thirty thousand 
people. 

From this extraordinary fete s I went for three 
days to Sienna, a very pretty city, remarkable for 
the beauty of its women. The natives of this town 
have none of the coarse guttural manner of speaking 
which prevails in Florence, and other parts of 
Tuscany ; indeed, they speak the purest Italian, 
and in the most common conversation fall into 
poetry. Ask a Siennese the way to the town, he 
answers, 






MICHAEL KELLY. 117 

" Varca il flume, 
Passa il monte, 
Avera Sienna 
Nella fronte.'\ 

The landlord of the inn- where I put up, took me 
to see a tomb in the cathedral, bearing the following 
epitaph, a hint to wine-bibbers : " Wine gives 
life ! it was death to me. I never beheld the morn- 
ing sun with sober eyes ; even my bones are thirsty. 
Stranger ! sprinkle my grave with wine ; empty 
the cup, and depart." 

While I staid at Florence I had the honour of 
being intimate with a rich Jew, of the name of 
Jacobs ; he had two beautiful daughters, fine musi- 
cians, and lived amongst his tribe with splendid 
hospitality. The Jews enjoy more privileges in 
Florence than in any other Catholic country I ever 
was in. 

When I quitted Florence, wishing to pass a 
short time at Bologna, on my way to Venice, 
I made an agreement with a vetturino, who had 
three excellent mules, to take me to Bologna ; and 

7 o ' 

set out, under his guidance, upon my journey. 
We travelled rather slowly ; but the roads over the 
Apennines were rugged and steep. The beauty 
and sublimity of the prospects, however, compen- 
sated amply for the difficulty, or even -clanger, of 
crossing their snow-covered summits. On the top 



118 REMINISCENCES OF 

of one \vas a con vent, where we slept the first night, 
and found a good supper and a hospitable welcome. 
My vetturino, I must confess, was somewhat of a 
convivialist, and, to beguile the time, sang Tasso 
and Ariosto's beautiful verses, with Stentorian lungs, 
even up to the very gates of Bologna. 

Bologna la Grassa, so called from the luxu- 
rious country in which it stands, its plenty and 
cheapness, is a very fine city. There are piazzas 
on each side of the street, which guard passengers 
equally from sun and rain ; those in the city of 
Chester resemble them in an inferior degree. The 
principal curiosities are the leaning tower, so often 
described. 

The morning after my arrival, I sought out the 
house of Signor Passerini, to whom I had a letter, 
the purport of which was, to request he would 
place me in a cheap and convenient boarding house, 
for the short time I had to remain in Bologna. 
To my surprise I found he was a hair-dresser, 
but it gave me great pleasure to find in him the 
father of my respected singing-master, Signor 
Passerini, who, as the reader will remember, was 

one of mv first instructors. The old man was de- 
j 

lighted to hear me repeat anecdotes of his son, whom 
he had not seen for many years; and I was so 
gratified to find something like an acquaintance 
in the old man, that I took lodgings in his house, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 119 



where I had a neat first floor, three meals a day, 
and wine at discretion, (as the French say of bread,) 
for I/. 86'. British per month. His shop was in a 
central situation, and the high temple of gossip. 
Numbers of theatrical and literary people frequented 
it. There I was introduced to Lovatini, whose 
fame was so great in England, and to Signer Trebi, 
also a very popular singer : they were natives of 
Bologna, and had retired from public life with very- 
ample means. 

One morning, sitting very quietly in my dressing 
gown in the shop, to have my hair dressed, I sud- 
denly heard " The Pope ! the Pope !" cried out 
from every quarter. His Holiness had arrived the 
day before from Rome, and was now on his way to 
visit Cardinal Buona Compagnia. Regardless of 
my appearance, my hair half dressed, my face co- 
vered with powder, my dressing gown the same 
and flying open, I rushed out of the shop, and 
ran after the carriage of his Holiness, even to the 
very gates of the Cardinal's palace. I was not a 
little flattered at seeing how completely I divided 
public attention with his Holiness. Fancying my- 
self to be " a marvellous proper man," I placed 
this to the score of n;y personal attractions ; but 
certain symptoms of laughter, which ended in roars, 
referred me to my dressing gown for an explanation, 
and I retired at full speed, laughing too, I confess, 

2 



120 REMINISCENCES OF 

although rather mortified to find that I had given 
more entertainment than I received. 

The theatre, which is one of the largest in 
Europe, was open, and I saw Cimarosa's beauti- 
ful opera, " II Falegname," ably performed by 
three great buffo singers Mandini, Blassi, and 
Leperini. At this period, Bologna was the mart 
(the carnival being over in all other places) to which 
actors from all parts of Italy resorted, to make 
their future engagements. The large Cafe dei 
Virtuosi was filled with them from morning till 
night, and it was really amusing to see them swarm 
round a manager the moment he entered. I passed 
much of my time there, and there first saw and 
heard the two extraordinary blind brothers, called 
" Le bravi Orbi." They were natives of Bologna, 
and during the spring and summer travelled to 
Rome, Naples, Venice, &c. ; their talents were 
every where held in the highest estimation ; the one 
played the violin with exquisite taste, the other the 
violoncello with such wonderful execution, as to 
have obtained from the Bolognese the additional 
cognomen of " Spacca note" u Split note. 1 '* I 
never missed an opportunity of hearing them. 

Signor Lovatini took me to see the Specola 
Museum, which the Bolognese consider the finest 
in the world. I was astonished to hear that the 
wax figures there, were the work of a female, a 

O ' 






MICHAEL KELLY. 121 

laative of the town. I also saw the church of La 
Madonna della Santa Lucia, where she is to be 
seen as large as life ; the church stands on a hill, 
and, to guard La Madonna from bad weather, 

'' 

when she is carried in procession, a covered way, 
nearly six miles in length, has been built as an 
approach to it. 

I had a letter to deliver to a Bolognese noble- 
man, Signer Ferussini, a singular character, though 

,1 1 f ' 1 ^C 11 1 ,1 

A very worthy man ; he was frightfully ugly and 
hump-backed, yet he was afflicted with the dis- 
ease of supposing every woman who saw him in 
love with him ; as he was rich he spared no ex- 
pense in adorning himself, in order to set off his 
charms to the best advantage. I was waiting for 
him one morning, when he came from his toilette v 
dressed in a new suit, of the richest and most 
expensive quality painted, patched, and made up 
in every possible way. He placed himself before 
a large mirror, and indulged himself thus : " I 
am handsome, young, and amiable ; the women 
follow me, and I am healthy and rich: what on 
earth do I want ?" " Common sense, you rascal," 
said his father (who had just entered the room) 
in a fury, and immediately knocked him down. 
Even the immortal Listen might take a lesson in 
the ludicrous, from my astonished Adonis ! 

I found here by accident Signora Palmini, the 

VOL. I. G 



REMINISCENCES OF 

prima donna, who was engaged to sing with me at 
Venice. We agreed to travel together. She was 
a very handsome woman, though on a large scale ; 
her husband, au contraire, was a diminutive shri- 
velled old man, and jealous in the extreme : he, 
with her mother (an ugly old body,) a little black 
boy, a servant, and a lap-dog, composed her suite. 
With these rational and pleasing companions did 
I embark in the canal passage-boat from Bologna 
to Ferrara ; it was drawn by horses, and nearly 
half the time employed in getting through the 
locks. When w r e arrived at Ferrara, we deter- 
mined on remaining there a day to look about us : 
and accordingly left our boat, and went to the 
Hotel de St. Marc ; we had a very good dinner, 
and a very merry landlord. He told us many 
stories in his talkative way : amongst others, 
one of the mad poet, Ariosto, as he chose to call 
him. 

It appears that Ariosto, one day passing a pot- 
ter's shop in Ferrara, heard the owner singing a 
stanza of the Orlando Furioso. Attracted by 
his own poetry, he listened, and found that the 
potter mangled it most miserably, rendering a most 
beautiful passage rank nonsense. This so enraged 
the poet, that, having a stick in his hand, he laid 
about him lustily, and broke every thing he could 
reach. When the poor devil of a potter expos- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

tulated with him for destroying the property of 
a man who had never done him any injury, he 
replied " 'Tis false, you have done me the deepest 
injury; you have murdered my verses; I have 
caught you in the very fact." When pressed 
to pay the poor man for some of his property, his 
only answer was " Let him learn to sing my poe- 
try, and I will leave alone his pottery." 

Ferrara, called Ferrara la Civile, had some noble 
buildings in it, and fine wide streets, but so thinly 
peopled that the grass actually grew in many of 
them. The greater part of the inhabitants wore 
long swords, which they still call Andrea Ferraras, 
and were in general expert swordsmen. The place 
was so miserably dull, that I was glad when the 
morning came, and we set off in a coach for La 
Ponte del Lago Scuro, where we arrived in the 
evening, and embarked again in an excellent barge 
on the river Po. We had a number of passen- 
gers on board friars, Jews, singers, dancers, &c. 
Sec. ah 1 mirth and jollity. A good dinner and 
supper were provided on board, and each found 
good spirits, dancing, and singing. From the Po 
we got into the Adigo, and from that river entered 
the Laguno leading to Venice. 

Venice! dear, beautiful Venice! never shall I 
forget the sensations of surprise and delight which 
I experienced when I first caught sight of thee ! 



REMINISCENCES OF 

thy noble palaces ! thy magnificent churches, with 
their cloud-capt spires ! appearing as if just arisen 
from the sea, and floating on the surface ! ' Years 
and years have passed away, yet I still call thee, 
dear, beautiful Venice ! 

On our arrival, we anchored near the bridge of 
the Rialto ; I and my travelling companions took 
up our abode at the Hotel called the Queen of 
England. After dinner, the caro sposo of my 
prima donna went to inform the manager of our 
arrival. He soon returned with the face of him 
who " drew Priam's curtains in the dead of night, 1 ' 
and told us that our manager, he by whom we 
" were to live, or have no life," was not to be found! 
that not being able to make his deposit, he was 
unable to make his appearance, and that we had 
" all the world before us where to choose." 

Here was a pretty coup for a man with five 
zecchinos in his pocket. To render the destruc- 
tion of our hopes intelligible, I must explain, that 
so many needy speculators had taken the thea- 
tre, and failed, leaving their performers destitute, 
that the Senate had felt it necessary to interfere, 
and had appointed a person, under whom the 
following regulations were to be strictly observed : 
The person proposing to take the theatre was 
compelled to give in a list of his performers, 
their salaries, &c. together with every estimated 



MICHAEL KELLY. 125 

expense attending his proposed arrangements ; and 
then was forced to give security, or actually deposit 
money to the amount so stated, before he could pro- 
cure a licence to open the doors ! 

My prima donna, her caro sposo, mamma, little 
black boy, lap-dog, &c. returned to Bologna, as the 
most likely place to procure another engagement. 
And here was I left in Venice with the cheering 
prospect of being six months, (the period for which 
I was engaged), without employment ! I was penny- 
less ! It is true I had a few good clothes, and a 
small stock of linen ; but then I had a large stock 
of spirits, and felt no poverty in the article of 
conceit; there, indeed, I was affluent, and stood 
mighty well with myself; for hope, the " nurse 
of young desire," never forsook me. And I had 
a presentiment that something fortunate would turn 
up for me ! 

In the boat from Ferrara there came with us a 
young man of the name of Lampieri, a fine, gene- 
rous-hearted fellow, the son of a silk-merchant at 
Florence, on his way to visit his uncle at Trieste. 
He was bound to Venice to take a passage for that 
place, and as we had formed a sort of friendship on 
board, and he wished to stay a few days to see what 
was to be seen, we agreed to live together. A 
friend of his, a good-natured fellow, who was to act 



126 REMINISCENCES OF 

as cicerone, procured me a lodging on a cheap scale, 
and we dined every day at a table d'hote. 

Morelli was then engaged at the Teatro St. 
Samuel. Lampieri, who had known him in Flo- 
rence, introduced me to him, and he procured us the 
freedom of his theatre. He again introduced me to 
Signor Michael delPAgato, manager of the theatre 
of St. Benetto, the first serious opera-house, (the 
Phenice theatre was not then built,) who politely 
o-ave the entree before and behind the curtain to 

o 

myself and companion. This was a source of 
oreat delight to me. The first opera I saw there 
was Orpheo and Euridice. Orpheus was performed 
by Rubinelli, a native of Brescia ; his fine contre- 
alto voice has never been surpassed, and he \vas an 
excellent actor as well as a sound musician. The 
prirna donna was Signora Banti, who had just then 
returned from London, where she had been engaged 
at the Opera House. As many of my readers 
doubtless remember, she had a finely marked coun- 
tenance, and a noble soprano voice, but was no 
musician. The difficulties arising from this de- 
ficiency she obviated by an extraordinary quickness 
and niceness of ear, perfect intonation, and strong 
feeling. She played Euridice finely. The music 
of this opera was by Bertoni ; one duet between 
Banti and Rubinelli was almost the most exquisite 



MICHAEL KELLY. 127 

treat I ever received. Two such voices I never 
heard before nor since. When a superior contre- 
alto voice and a fine soprano unite in a duet, nothing 
can surpass the effect ! 

The Venetians are in general adorers of music, 
and Venice, one of the first cities in Europe for the 
cultivation of that art. It is famous for its female 
conservatories, of which there are four, which are 
in fact foundling hospitals, supported by wealthy 
citizens, &c. where the girls are maintained and 
educated ; some are married from them, and those 
who display strong talent for music are instructed 
by the very best masters. They gave concerts 
every Sunday evening, and on festival days ; I heard 
two, one at La Pieta, the other at La Mendicant! 
the former celebrated for its fine orchestra, the 
latter for its singers. At La Pieta there were a 
thousand girls, one hundred and forty of whom 
were musicians : all the instruments were charm- 
ingly played by girls. The churches were crowded 
on those occasions ; and while the performance 
was actually going on, the most perfect silence 
was observed ; but at the conclusion of a piece 
of music, which excited their approbation, the 
audience expressed it in the most extraordinary 
manner, they coughed aloud, and scraped their 
feet on the ground, for some moments, but did 



128 REMINISCENCES OF 

not utter a word ! which seemed to me a practical 
mode of pointing out the beauty of concord in 
opposition to the horrors of discord. 

Michael delP Agato, who was, as I said before, 
the manager of St. Benetto, invited me to dine 
with him tete-a-tete. He expressed a friendly 
feeling for me, and gave me advice, which sub- 
sequently I found of the greatest utility to me. 
" In this city," said he, " you will find innumer- 
able pleasures ; your youth and good spirits will 
lay you open to many temptations ; but against 
one thing, and one thing only, I particularly cau- 
tion you : never utter one word against the laws 
or customs of Venice, do not suffer, yourself to be 
betrayed even into a jest on this subject. You never 
know to whom you speak ; in every corner spies 
are lurking, numbers of whom are employed at a 
high price to ensnare the unwary, and report the 
language of strangers; but with no other protec- 
tion than a silent tongue, you may do what you 
like, and enjoy every thing without molestation. 
I will relate an anecdote," added he, " which will 
give you some idea of our police.*" 

" A countryman of yours came to this city, ac- 
companied by a Swiss valet ; he took up his resi- 
dence at the Scuda di Francia. On his return home 
one evening, he found his writing-desk broken 



MICHAEL KELLY. 129 

open, and a large sum of money taken from it. 
After making peaceable inquiries, without effect, he 
flew into a violent rage, charged the landlord and 
waiters, &c. with being thieves; but, above all, he 
called them Venetian thieves, and cursed himself 
for having come into a country where the property 
of a traveller was not safe even in his own hotel. In 
the height of his wrath he dismissed his valet for 
going out and leaving the door of his apartment 
unlocked ; and having thus vented his displeasure, 
thought the matter ended; but not so. On the 
third morning after this event, he was roused out 
of his sleep by the officers of the Inquisition, who 
informed him, that he must go immediately before 
the three grand inquisitors. His feelings were not to 
be envied when, hoodwinked, he was led on board 
a gondola, and thence into a room hung with black, 
where sat his judges. After due preparation and 
solemnity, and a severe lecture on the enormity of 
the abuse which he had uttered against the Venetian 
State, its laws, and subjects, he received a peremp- 
tory order to quit its territories in twenty-four 
hours ; this he of course tremblingly promised to 
obey ; but just as he turned to leave the tribunal, 
a curtain was suddenly drawn aside, behind which 
lay the strangled corpse of his Swiss valet, and the 
stolen bag of money by his side." I confess this 
instance of the summary mode of administering 

G 5 



130 REMINISCENCES OF 

justice in Venice, made a deeper impression upon 
me than all the good Signer's advice. 

About this time I wrote to my father, acquaint- 
ing him with the situation in which I was left, and 
requesting a remittance, and gave my address to 
the care of Signor Zanotti, at the Hotel La Regina 
d"* Inghilterra. 

Venice 1 dear, beautiful Venice ! scene of harmony 
and love ! where all was gaiety and mirth, revelry 
and pleasure, with what warm feelings do I recal 
thee to my memory ; day and night were the 
gondoliers singing barcarolles, or the verses of Tasso 
and Ariosto to Venetian airs; barges full of 
musicians on the Grande Canale, serenading their 
enamoratas; the Piazza of St. Marc brilliantly 
lighted up ; ten thousand masks and ballad singers ; 
the coffee-houses filled with beautiful women, with 
their cicisbeos ; or if alone, unmolested, taking their 
refreshments and enjoying themselves without re- 
straint. Venice was the paradise of women, and 
the Venetian women worthy of a paradise at least 
of Mahomet's. They were perfect Houri ; and the 
Venetian dialect, spoken by a lovely woman, is the 
softest and most delicious music in the world to 
him whom she favours. In short, a Venetian 
woman, in her zindale dress, well answers young 
Mirable's description in the play of the Inconstant ; 
44 Give me the plump Venetian, who smiles upon 



MICHAEL KELLY". 131 

me like the glowing sun, and meets my lips like 
sparkling wine ; her person shining as the glass, her 
spirit like the foaming liquor."" 

My friend Lampieri received a letter from his 
uncle at Trieste, desiring him to proceed thither 
immediately ; this was bad news for me ; for besides 
the loss of my agreeable companion, I felt that I 
should lose his pecuniary assistance, which, " though 
somewhat of the smallest, Master Matthew," as 
Bobadil says, was generously and frankly given. 
A Ragusan polacca was to sail in about a week, 
on board of which he took his passage ; the inter- 
mediate time we resolved to pass in pleasure ; 
the mornings we usually spent on the Rialto, 
it was a favourite lounge, crowded with shops, 
where merchants of all countries meet. It is their 
exchange, and a scene of continual bustle, crowded 
with Christians, Turks, Armenians, and Jews. The 
latter enjoyed but little liberty in this city, they 
were obliged to wear a piece of red cloth in the 
hat, by way of distinction, (which, considering how 
much the hand of Nature has done for them in 
that way, seems superfluous,) and to live in a par- 
ticular quarter called La Giudica, and were obliged, 
under a heavy penalty, to be in their houses before 
sun-set. 

When Lampieri was forced to go, I was unhappy 
enough; my finances were becoming deplorable, 



REMINISCENCES OF 

and I was obliged to part with a kind and dear 
friend. I saw him on board the polacca, and took 
leave of him with an aching heart. He had ex- 
pended almost his last ducat, and I had but two 
zecchinos left wherewith to fight my way through 
this wicked world. My spirits, for the first time, 
deserted me : I never passed so miserable a night 
in my life, and in shame of my " doublet and hose, 1 ' 
I felt very much inclined to " cry like a child." 
While tossing on my pillow, however, I chanced to 
recollect a letter which my landlord of Bologna, 
Signor Passerini, had given me to a friend of his, a 
Signor Andrioli : for, as he told me, he thought 
the introduction might be of use to me. 

In , the morning, I went to the Rial to coffee- 
house, to which I was directed by the address of 
the letter. Here I found the gentleman who was 
the object of my search ; after reading my creden- 
tials very graciously, he smiled, and requested me 
to take a turn with him in the Piazza St. Marc. 
He was a fine looking man, of about sixty years 
old. I remarked there was an aristocratic manner 
about him, and he wore a very large tie-wig, well 
powdered, with an immensely long tail. He ad- 
dressed me with a benevolent and patronizing air, 
and told me that he should be delighted to be of 
service to me, and bade me from that moment con- 
sider myself under his protection. " A little 



MiCttAEL KELLY* 153 

business," said he, " calls me away at this moment, 
but if you will meet me here at two o'clock we will 
adjourn to my Casino, where, if you can dine on 
one dish, you will perhaps do me the favour to 
partake of a boiled capon and rice. I can only 
offer you that ; perhaps a rice soup, for which my 
cook is famous; and it may be, just one or two 
little things not worth mentioning." 

A boiled capon rice soup other little things, 
thought I, manna in the wilderness ! I strolled 
about, not to get an appetite, for that was ready, 
but to kill time. My excellent, hospitable, long- 
tailed friend, was punctual to the moment; I 
joined him, and proceeded towards his residence. 

As we were bending our steps thither, we hap- 
pened to pass a Luganigera's (a ham-shop), where 
there was some ham ready dressed in the window. 
My powdered patron paused, it was an awful 
pause ; he reconnoitred, examined, and at last said, 
" Do you know, Signer, I was thinking that some 
of that ham would eat deliciously with our capon : 
I am known in this neighbourhood, and it would 
not do for me to be seen buying ham but do you 
go in, my child, and get two or three pounds of it, 
and I will walk on, and wait for you." 

I went in of course, and purchased three pounds 
of the ham, to pay for which, I was obliged to 
change one of my two zecchinos. I carefully folded 



134 REMINISCENCES OF 

up the precious viand, and rejoined my excellent 
patron, who eyed the relishing slices with the air 
of a gourmand; indeed, he was somewhat diffuse 
in his own dispraise for not having recollected to 
order his servant to get some before he left home. 
During this peripatetic lecture on gastronomy, we 
happened to pass a cantina; in plain English a 
wine cellar. At the door he made another full 
stop. 

" In that house," said he, " they sell the best 
Cyprus wine in Venice, peculiar wine, a sort of 
wine not to be had any where else; I should like you 
to taste it ; but I do not like to be seen buying wine 
by retail to carry home; go in yourself, buy a 
couple of flasks, and bring them to my Casino ; 
nobody hereabouts knows you, and it won't signify 
in the least." 

This last request was quite appalling ; my pocket 
groaned to its very centre : however, recollecting 
that I was in the high road to preferment, and that 
a patron, cost what he might, was still a patron, I 
made the plunge, and, issuing from the cantina, set 
forward for my venerable friend's Casino, with 
three pounds of ham in my pocket, and a flask of 
wine under each arm, sans six sous et sans souci f 

I continued walking with my excellent and long- 
tailed patron, expecting every moment to see an 
elegant, agreeable residence, smiling in all the 



MICHAEL KELLY". 135 

beauties of nature and art ; when, at last, in a dirty 
miserable lane, at the door of a tall dingy-looking 
house, my Maecenas stopped, indicated that we 
had reached our journey's end, and, marshalling 
me the way that I should go, began to mount 
three flights of sickening stairs, at the top of which 
I found his Casino, it was a little Cas, and a 
deuce of a place to boot, in plain English^ it was a 
garret. The door was opened by a wretched old 
miscreant, who acted as cook, and whose drapery, to 
use a gastronomic simile, was " done to rags." 

Upon a ricketty apology for a table was placed a 
tattered cloth, which once had been white, and 
two plates ; and presently in came a large bowl of 
boiled rice. 

" Where's the capon ?" said my patron to his 
man. 

" Capon!" echoed the ghost of a servant 



*' Has not the rascal sent it?" cried the master. 

" Rascal !" repeated the man, apparently ter- 
rified. 

" I knew he would not," exclaimed my patron, 
with an air of exultation for which I saw no cause ; 
" well, well, never mind, put down the ham and the 
wine ; with those and the rice, I dare say, young 
gentleman, you will be able to make it out. I 
ought to apologise but in fact it is all your own 



136 REMINISCENCES OF 

fault that there is not more ; if I had fallen in 
with you earlier, we should have had a better 
dinner. 1 ' 

I confess I was surprised, disappointed, and 
amused ; but, as matters stood, there was no use 
in complaining, and accordingly we fell to, neither 
of us wanting the best of all sauces appetite. 

I soon perceived that my promised patron had 
baited his trap with a fowl to catch a fool ; but as 
we ate and drank, all care vanished, and, rogue 
as I suspected him to be, my long-tailed friend 
was a clever witty fellow, and, besides telling me 
a number of anecdotes, gave me some very good 
advice; amongst other things to be avoided, he 
cautioned me against numbers of people who, in 
Venice, lived only by duping the unwary. I 
thought this counsel came very ill from him, 
" Above all, 1 ' said he, " keep up your spirits, and 
recollect the Venetian proverb, Cento anni di 
malinconia non pagheranno un soldo dei debiti." 
" A hundred years of melancholy will not pay one 
farthing of debt." 

After we had regaled ourselves upon my ham 
and wine, we separated ; he desired me to meet him 
the following morning at the coffee-house, and told 
me he would give me a ticket for the private 
theatre of Count Pepoli, where I should see a 
comedy admirably acted by amateurs ; and in 



MICHAEL KELLY. 137 

justice to my long-tailed friend, I must say, he was 
punctual, and gave me the ticket, which, however, 
differed from a boiled capon in one respect he 
got it gratis. 

Having obtained this passport, I dressed myself, 
and went to the parterre, which was filled with 
elegant company. The play was " La Vedova 
Scaltra," in which the Count Pepoli displayed much 
talent. However, I had no heart, no spirit for 
amusement, and sat mournful and moneyless, in the 
midst of splendour and gaiety, without hope or re- 
source, and careless of what became of me ; I was con- 
trasting the past with the present, and the prospect 
before me, and repeating to myself Dante's ex- 
pressive lines, " Non v' e nessun maggiore dolore 
che di ricordarsi del tempo felice quando siamo nella 
miseria," when I perceived the eyes of a lady and 
gentleman, who were at the upper part of the 
parterre, fixed on me, as if they were speaking of 
me. At the end of the play, the gentleman 
approached me, and said, " Sir, the lady who is 
with me, and who is my wife, requests to speak to 
you." I went, and she said to me, " I rather think, 
Sir, you are the young Englishman (which I was 
called at Venice), who was engaged at St. Moise, as 
tenor singer." 

" I am that unfortunate personage, Madam," 
said I. 



138 REMINISCENCES OF 

She then introduced herself to me as La Signora 
Benini, a name well known all over Italy, as that 
of the first comic singer and actress of the day. 
She told me that she was going to set off for 
Germany in a few days, being engaged as prima 
buffa, for the autumn and carnival at Gratz, the 
capital of Styria. She had that morning received a 
letter from the manager, acquainting her that Signer 
Germoli, who was engaged as first tenor singer, 
had disappointed him, and eloped to Russia sans 
ceremonie ; at the same time authorising her to 
engage any person capable, in her opinion, of filling 
his place. " Now, Signor CTKelly," (for, at Naples, 
Father Dolphin tacked an O to my name,) said the 
lady, " I wish to offer you this engagement ; come 
and take chocolate with us to-morrow morning, and 
we will talk the matter over." 

Here was a change ! ten minutes before, a beggar, 
in a strange country, plunged in despair; now, 
first tenor of the Gratz theatre ; at least it was as 
completely settled in my mind, as if the articles had 
been actually signed ; and with a bounding heart, 
I returned home to my late miserable bed, and 
slept Oh, ye Gods, how I slept ! 

I was punctual the following morning ; exactly 
at ten I was set down by a gondola at the house of 
Signora Benini, on the Canale Maggiore. The 
Signora received me at her toilette ; where she was 



MICHAEL KELLY. 139 

braiding up a profusion of fine black hair. I 
thought her handsome at the play the night before, 
but the Italian women all contrive to look well by 
candlelight; nature gives them good features, 
and they take care to give themselves good com- 
plexions. But Signora Benini wanted not " the 
foreign aid of ornament ;" her person was petite, and 
beautifully formed ; her features were good, and 
she had a pair of brilliant expressive eyes. After 
breakfast, she requested me to sing. I sang my 
favourite rondo, " Teco resti, anima mia." She 
appeared pleased, and said she had no doubt of my 
success. The terms, she said, were to be two 
hundred zecchinos for the autumn and carnival, and 
to be lodged free of expense ; at the same time, she 
offered me a seat in her carriage, and to pay my 
expenses to Gratz. " Hear this, ye Gods, and 
wonder how ye made her !" For fear of accidents, I 
signed the engagement before I left the house. 

I passed a couple of hours with the Signora 
delightfully ; she possessed all the Venetian vivacity 
and badinage, together with great good sense and 
much good nature. I related my adventure with 
my knight of the long-tail, told her of the capon, the 
Cyprus wine, &c. ; which amused her greatly. It 
seemed she knew his character well : in His younger 
days he had been by turns, an actor and a poet, and 
was at that time supposed to be a spy in the pay of 



140 REMINISCENCES OF 

the police ; one of those whom I had been specially 
advised most carefully to avoid ; indeed she coun- 
selled me to be cautious, but not to slight him ; he 
might be a negative friend, but if offended, a posi- 
tively dangerous enemy. " Remember the proverb," 
said the Signora, " let sleeping dogs lie ; they may 
rise and bite you." While recounting the disburse- 
ments which I had made in the purchase of the 
repast, she observed that I was reduced to my last 
zecchino, and in the kindest manner advanced me 
some money on account. 

I was now at the very summit of prosperity in 
my own opinion ; but one cannot enjoy happiness 
alone ; so when I left the Signora, 1 flew to the 
coffee-house, where I found the^ knight of the tail. 
I desired him to meet me at the Stella d' Oro tavern 
at three o'clock, where / would treat him with a 
capon. The innkeeper's poulterer was rather more 
punctual than my patron's, and we had an excellent 
dinner. I related my good fortune, and, in short, 
told him every thing that had occurred, except the 
advance which I had received ; for, barring the im- 
portance of his tail, I thought the knight had a 
borrowing countenance. 

The Signora, with her husband, her lap-dog, 
servant, and myself, set off in a gondola for Mestra, 
where we found her travelling-carriage, in which we 
proceeded day and night, till we reached Gorizia, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 141 

"where we remained a day to repose ourselves. The 
part of the Venetian States through which we passed 
abounds in beauties ; as Goldsmith says, 

" Could Nature's beauties satisfy the breast, 
The sons of Italy were surely blest." 

I suffered greatly from the cold, as we proceeded 
into Germany; the roads were hilly and heavy, the 
cattle miserable, and the post-boys incorrigible. 
But what was all this to me ? I was in a comfortable 
carriage, in pleasant society, and seated opposite to 
a beautiful woman of six-and- twenty. At length, 
we arrived at Gratz ; Signora Benini's house was 
elegantly fitted up. The manager waited on her, 
and after dinner conducted me to the apartments 
which were taken for me. Before I quitted her, the 
Signora insisted on my accepting a cover at her 
table every day, and indeed evinced the greatest 
friendship and hospitality towards me. 

A great number of nobility resided in this plea- 
sant lively city, and many rich merchants; but 
which was far better for me, a great number of 
Irish officers, among whom were Generals Dillon, 
Dalton, and Kavanagh. General Dalton was 
commandant ; and when I was introduced to him, 
I was delighted to find that he remembered my 
father, for whom he expressed the highest respect, 
and indeed said every thing that could gratify the 
feelings of a son ; at the same time assuring me he 



REMINISCENCES OF 

would be happy to see and serve me at all times. 
He kept his word amply, for I found in him a father 
when I wanted advice, and his acquaintance was of 
course an introduction to the best society. 

He was an enthusiast about Ireland, and agreed 
with me that the Irish language was sweeter and 
better adapted for musical accompaniment than any 
other, the Italian excepted : and it is true that, 
when a child, I have heard my father sing many 
pathetic Irish airs, in which the words resembled 
Italian so closely, that if I did not know the impos- 
sibility, the impression on my memory would be 
that I had heard him sing in that language. 

To return to Gratz : the time at length arrived 
for opening of the operatic campaign. The com- 
pany was good, the first comic man, Gugliplmi, 
excellent ; La Signora Benini was a great favourite. 
The first opera was " La vera Costanza," the music 
by Anfossi. I had some good songs in it, and was 
in high spirits. 

As it was the custom for the ladies, the first 
night of the opera, to go in grand gala, the boxes 
and parterre were a perfect blaze of diamonds, and 
every part of the house was crowded. I was sup- 
ported by numbers of my countrymen, who were 
present ; and, independently of them, the applause 
I received was beyond my expectations, and far 
beyond my merits. 

The carnival at length arrived, with all its 



MICHAEL KELLY. 143 

wonted jollity ; and, to my astonishment, I found 
that the sober Germans understood masquerading 
and keeping up the frolic of the season as well 
as the inhabitants of any part of Italy, Venice 
excepted. On those occasions I was seldom " lost 
in the throng ;" indeed, I had nothing to do but to 
enjoy myself. 

Amongst the distinguished persons to whom 
General Dalton's friendship introduced me, was 
the Governor of Gratz, a most highly-gifted 
nobleman, whose wife laboured under the extra- 
ordinary misfortune of not having seen her own 
face for many years ! She was considered the most 
complete mistress of the art of enamelling in Ger- 
many ! 

" And all, save the" husband, " could plainly descry, 
From whence came her white and her red." 

Independently of this little failing, she was 
an amiable, accomplished woman, though proud; 
and, what was more to my purpose, a good 
musician. When General Dal ton introduced me 
to her, I had the pleasure of hearing her play 
very finely on the piano-forte. I recollect she 
found fault with the manner in which my hair was 
dressed, observing that it would become me better 
if combed off my forehead. I defended my mode, 
merely on the score of being used to it ; on which 

i 



144 11EMTNISCENCES OF 

she said, " My good young man, bear in mind 
what I now say; while you live, eat and drink to 
please yourself; but in dress always study to 
please others." 

About this time, G retry 's opera of " Selima 
and Azor" was sent from Vienna, and put into 
rehearsal. Signora Benini performed Selima ; and 
I the Prince. It was brought out under the im- 
mediate patronage of the Governor's lady, who 
attended all the rehearsals herself. No expense 
was spared on the scenery and decorations. The 
second dress I wore, that of the Prince, after 
being transformed from the monster, was very 
magnificent ; and, to render it more so, the Countess 
made my turban herself, and almost covered it 
with her own diamonds ! I often thought, while 
bearing those shining "honours thick upon me, 1 ' 
that I should be a lucky fellow, if, like Gil Bias, 
I could make a bolt, merely for the sake of a, jest ! 
but had I been so inclined, it " might not so 
easily be, 1 ' as the Countess, though she had the 
highest opinion of my honour, thought it not 
amiss to place her maitre d'hotel behind the scenes, 
to support it, should it be inclined to make a slip 
with her diamonds ! I was allowed this splendour 
only for three nights at the end of the third, I 
sighed, and returning the turban to the lynx-eyed 
maitre d'hotel, said, with Cardinal Wolsey, " Fare- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 145 

well, a long farewell to all my greatness ;" " Addio 
a tutta la mia grandeaza." 

The end of the Carnival was now approaching, 
and with it was to terminate my engagement. It 
was fortunate for the manager that his season was 
so near a close, for, returning one morning from a 
ball, where I had been heated by dancing, I caught 
a dreadful cold, which confined me to my bed, 
and an intermezzo opera was got up without me. 
In a short time I got rid of my fever, but my 
voice was deprived of all power, or rather of in- 
tonation. Although I was gifted by nature with a 
perfect ear, yet, when I attempted to sing, my 
voice was so sharp as to be near a note above the 
instruments, and though I could distinguish the 
monstrous difference, I could not by any effort ' 
correct it. I was obliged to give up singing at the 
theatre, and was completely wretched ! My com- 
plaint baffled the skill of all the faculty at that 
time in Gratz, though the surgeon of an Irish 
regiment quartered there, a Mr. O'Brein, who 
stood high in his profession, assured me that it 
arose from great relaxation ; but even in that case, 
it was impossible to account for the loss of ear and 
intonation, which nature had formed so perfect. 
He, however, expressed great hopes of my reco- 
very, resting them on my youth and excellent 
constitution, and bade me look for the return of 

VOL. I. H 



146 REMINISCENCES OF 

fine weather with good spirits. But, above all, he 
advised me, if possible, to return to the mild and 
genial air of Italy, that of Germany being too 
keen for me ; so much so, as to render the return 
of my voice doubtful, notwithstanding his hopes. 
On his expressing the same opinion to General 
Dalton, the General sent for me, and in the most 
soothing terms, desired me to prepare for an imme- 
diate return to Italy, as both my life and bread 
depended on it. 

What a reverse of fortune ! but a few weeks 
before I was the happiest of the happy ! caressed 
by my friends ! a favourite with the public ! with 
every prospect of a renewed engagement ; possessing 
health, spirits, and competence. 

My kind patron, the General, gave me letters 
of recommendation to the Countess of Rosenberg, 
(an English Lady, whose maiden name was Wynne,) 
to the Austrian Ambassador, Count Durazzo, 
Count Priuli, the Cornaro family, and to the senator 
Benzoni; besides these, I had a particular intro- 
duction to Mr. Strange, British charge d'affaires in 
Venice. 

The stage-manager of the theatre, an Italian of 
the name of Melaga, was going to Venice for the 
express purpose of engaging a tenor singer to fill 
my situation. We agreed to travel together, and I 
felt happy in havng such a compagnon de voyage, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 147 

for he was merry and witty, a native of Bologna, 
and the very man to drive away low spirits ! The 
second week in Lent, half heart-broken, I took a 
melancholy leave of my kind and dear friends, and 
set off for Venice. We had hired a German post 
waggon, which they call a chaiser, and a complete 
bone-setter it was ! While undergoing its opera- 
tions, nothing could have so ably aided its torments, 
as the unconquerable phlegm of the postilion ; 
whatever one suffers, whatever one says, there he 
sits, lord of your time ; you may complain, but it is 
useless ; his horses and his pipe are his objects, 
and his passengers are but lumber. 

Besides this, the extortions on the road were 
insufferable ; we were obliged to add an extra horse, 
or perhaps more, at the high and mighty will of the 
postmaster, to our bone-setter, and often to wait 
two or three hours for those. The ostlers are the 
greatest thieves in the world ! they make no scruple 
of stealing any part of the luggage they can lay hold 
of. Our expenses in horses and postilions, till we 
got out of Germany, came to about one and sixpence 
a mile, including extortion ! provisions were dear, 
scarce, and bad ; we sometimes got good beer, and 
now and then a bottle of excellent hoffner (Hungarian 
wine). For my part, I lived chiefly on bread and 
eggs, but my companion was not so easily satisfied. 
Nature had gifted him with a voracious appetite. 



118 REMINISCENCES OF 

and an insatiable taste for drinking. He was good 
security for three bottles of wine a day ! and for 
sleep he was unrivalled ! as Prior says, 

" He ate, and drank, and slept, what then ? 
He slept, and drank, and ate again !" 

but, when, thoroughly awake, and his appetites 
satisfied, he was full of intelligence and anecdote, 
good natured, and communicative ; and, heaven 
save the mark ! the ugliest fellow I ever beheld ! 
He had formerly been in the army, and after 
running through a small patrimony, resided with 
an aunt in Alsace, on the very spot where Voltaire, 
when travelling, was taken seriously ill. In this 
part of the world, Voltaire was equally unknown, as 
a poet or a deist ; and the good people of Alsace, 
in whose house he was, and who spoke hardly any 
French, thought the best thing they could do for a 
dying man, would be to procure for him the conso- 
lations of religion. Every one is acquainted with 
Voltaire's hatred for priests and monks, and may 
conceive how he was disposed to religion by the 
introduction of one of the clergy into his bed-room, 
without his knowledge. The unconscious offender, 
a simple, pious man, walked up to the bed with 
zeal and solemnity, and, drawing the curtains aside, 
said to Voltaire, in French, " Sir, can you speak 
French ?" What the emphatic reply of the philo- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 149 

pher was, I must be excused from mentioning-; 
suffice it to say, it was accompanied by an order to 
his valet to kick the priest down stairs ! 

After going through the purgatory of German 
roads and German postilions, we arrived in the 
Venetian States, and remained a day at Palma 
Nnova, to refresh ourselves, and view its celebrated 
fortifications, considered to be amongst the strongest 
in" Europe. My companion, as a military man, 
was delighted while the serjeant who accompanied 
us, gave a long and perhaps learned dissertation on 
the art of engineering ; to me it was dreadfully 
tiresome, for, like Mungo, in the Padlock, " What 
signify me hear, when me no understand !" 

My companion prevailed on me to accompany 
him to Padua, where he had business to transact. 
It was very little out of our way, and I had a 
strong desire to see that learned city. When we 
arrived, we went to an inn, called the Stella d 1 Oro. 
Padua was interesting to me, as the birth-place 
of Tartini ; and the two greatest singers of their 
time were living there retired, Pachierotti and 
Guadag-ni. The latter was a Cavaliere. He had 

o 

built a house, or rather a palace, in which he had a 
very neat theatre, and a company of puppets, which 
represented L' Orpheo e Euridice ; himself singing 
the part of Orpheo behind the scenes. It was 
in this character, and in singing Grluck's beautiful 



150 REMINISCENCES OF 

rondo in it, " Che faro senza Euridice," that he 
distinguished himself in every theatre in Europe, 
and drew such immense houses in London. 

His puppet-show was his hobby-horse, and as he 
received no money, he had always crowded houses. 
He had a good fortune, with which he was very 
liberal, and was the handsomest man of his kind I 
ever saw. 

I never was in any place so over-run with mendi- 
cants as at Padua ; they allow you no peace, but 
torture you in the name of their patron saint, Saint 
Anthony. We went to see his church, a very large, 
old building : the inhabitants call it, II Santo (the 
Saint), The interior is superb, crowded with fine 
paintings and sculpture. There are four fine 
organs, and a large choir, consisting of celebrated 
professors, vocal and instrumental. I heard a mass 
there, composed by II Padre Vallotti, and both the 
composition and performance were delightful. 
There seemed to be a great number of students, 
native and foreign, in the university ; but altogether 
I did not like the place, and at the end of three 
days, I left it, with great pleasure, in the common 
boat, filled with passengers of all sorts, for Venice. 

We landed at the Piazza. My companion took 
leave of me, and I returned to my worthy friend 
and host, Zanotti, of the Regina d' Inghilterra. 
Zanotti had formerly been in England, in the 



MICHAEL KELLY. 151 

service of II Cavaliere Pissani, Ambassador to 
St. James's, and spoke English very well, which made 
his house much frequented by the travelling Eng- 
lish nobility. He had a handsome gondola, which he 
allowed me to make use of; his gondolier was one 
of the most lively and intelligent of those expert and 
witty fellows : they are a privileged caste, and say 
what they like to their masters and others, no 
person taking offence at the jest or repartee of 
a gondolier. In their style, they greatly resemble 
the lower order of Irish, and are faithful in the 
extreme, if you put trust in them. Gondoliers 
were usually called " Momolo r it being the 
diminutive of St. Girolomo, or St. Jerome, their 
patron saint. By the way, it is strange, that those 
gentry, who are, to a man, adorers of the fair sex, 
should have chosen him, of all the saints in the 
calendar, for their patron, who had declared, that 
" a good woman was more rare than the phoenix." 
On this saint's day they have a fete, and not a gon- 
dolier will handle an oar if he can avoid it. 

The functions in Passion Week were carried on 
with great solemnity. The Doge went in proces- 
sion to St. Mare's, where there were six orchestras 
erected, and High Mass celebrated. There was 
also a function at St. Giovanni di Paulo. I visited 
both. The fair of the Ascension coming on, every 
one was in preparation for it. It lasted fifteen 



REMINISCENCES OF 

days : all the theatres were open, and, at night ^ 
St. Marc's was brilliantly illuminated. On the Day 
of the Ascension, the Doge went in grand procession 
to marry the sea. My host took me to see this 
truly singular arid magnificent sight. The Doge 
left Venice in his beautiful Bucantore, which con- 

* X 

tained near three hundred persons. It was superbly 
adorned, and carried twenty-one oars on each side. 
There were several bands of music on board. On 
reaching a certain point, the Doge threw a plain 
gold ring into the sea ; saying, " We marry thee, 
O Sea ! in sign of true and perpetual dominion.'" He 
then returned to Venice in the same order ; the sea 
covered with gondolas, barges, and boats, and the 
spectators rending the air with acclamations. 

" Mine host" related a ridiculous circumstance, 
which took place at this curious marriage ceremony 
some years before. The celebrated and witty Lord 
Lyttelton, and several other English gentlemen, 
went in a barge to see the ceremony. They had on 
board with them a lacquais-de-place^ a talkative 
fellow, making a plaguy noise, explaining every 
thing that was going on. This unfortunate Cicerone 
was standing up in the barge, and leaning over it, at 
the moment the Doge dropped the ring into the sea ; 
the loquacious lacquey bawled out with all his might 
and strength, " Now, my Lord, look, look, the 
Doge has married the sea !" 

o 



MICHAEL KELLY. 153 

" Has he," replied Lord Lyttelton ; " then go 
you, you noisy dog, and pay the bride a visit ;" and, 
giving him a push, into the sea went the poor prating 
valet ; he was taken up immediately, without having 
received any injury beyond a ducking, for which he 
was well repaid. 

Of all the foreign cities I had ever seen, Venice 
appeared to be the best lighted ; to a stranger it 
seems to be in a general illumination ; the shops are 
kept open until twelve o'clock at night, and most of 
them not shut at all ; the blaze of light which they 

cj */ 

give is great, particularly those in the Piazza St. Marc 
and the Freseria, where all the chief milliners and 
haberdashers live; the taverns are also open the 
greater part of the night, and supper is always ready* 
" on the shortest notice." 

It is quite common for ladies and gentlemen, after 
they have spent their evening at the different casinos, 
which many of the noble Venetians have in the 
Piazza St. Marc, and in which they have concerts, 
conversaziones, and plays, to form different parties, 
and adjourn to the taverns to supper. I have often 
been at these delightful parties : the ladies particu. 
larly are fond of these banquets, where good humour, 
mirth, and pleasantry abound : - but they make it a 
rule, which they never in any instance deviate from, 
to pay their share of the bill ; nor will they allow 
their cicisbeos or relations to pay for them ; nothing 



154 REMINISCENCES OF 

would offend a Venetian lady more than any man 
of the party offering to pay for her upon one of their 
sociable expeditions. 

Shortly after my arrival in Venice, I delivered the 
letter I had from my worthy friend, General Dalton, 
and was received by the Countess Rosenberg with 
great kindness ; she was a widow, and resided 
entirely at Venice with an only daughter. The 
Countess was a native of Wales ; her maiden name, 
as I said before, was Wynne, and she was considered 
by the Venetians a grand dilettante. I afterwards 
waited upon his Excellency Priuli, Cornaro, and 
the beautiful Benzoni, with my letters, and was 
received by them with equal affability. The Aus- 
trian Ambassador, Count Durazzo, who was an 
intimate friend of General Daltons, said he should 
be happy to see me at his conversazione, which he 
held three times a week ; at his house, foreigners 
of every nation then at Venice assembled, but no 
Venetian. There is a strict law or custom, that a 
Venetian senator or nobleman is not allowed to visit 
a foreign ambassador ; not even are their servants 
permitted to have intercourse with each other, under 
a severe penalty. However, as I had the happiness 
to be a British subject, I went en amusing myself 
very well with the conversazioni, concerts, and sup- 
pers, and going to one theatre or another every 
night, having the freedom of them all: but 'the 



MICHAEL KELLY. 155 

theatre with which I was most pleased was that 
of St. Angelo, where the inimitable actor, Sacchi, 
the speaking Harlequin, and his company per- 
formed. 

There were at that time in Venice, solely for 
comedies, four theatres St, Angelo, St. Cassan, 
St. Luke, and St. Giovan Chrisostomo; but at 
whichever Sacchi performed, that one was always 
the best attended. I saw him for the first 
time perform in Goldcni's comedy, called " The 
Thirty-two Misfortunes of Harlequin ; r he was 
then considerably turned of seventy years of age, 
but when he had his Harlequin's jacket and mask 
on, the vivacity of his manner and activity would 
have led one to suppose him not above fifty ; 
he was esteemed a great wit, full of bon-mot and 
repartee : he was allowed to have the power of 
applying the thoughts and sayings of the best 
ancient and modern writers extemporaneously, 
even while assuming in manner and tone the sim- 
plicity of an idiot : nothing seemed to come amiss 
to him, and he was justly the delight of the 
Venetians. 

Amongst the theatrical pieces of the Venetians, 
the comedies of Four Masques are the most en- 
tertaining. These Four Masques are Panta- 
loon, who is always supposed to be a rich old 
Venetian merchant; an old Dottore, supposed to 



156 REMINISCENCES OF 

be an old cunning Bologna lawyer ; Harlequin 
and Brigella are two natives of Bergamosco, ser- 
vants ; the Brigella ought to be clever, acute, and 
witty, a knavish intriguer; and the performer 
of this part, who is not able to retort with quick- 
ness and point upon every subject proposed, is not 
fit to represent the character. 

The Harlequin is to represent (in appearance) 
a stupid, clownish fellow ; but under the mask 
of stupidity, he should possess superlative sharp- 
ness of repartee, to answer others without hesi- 
tation, and put the most puzzling questions to 
the Doctor, to Pantaloon, and Brigella. It is de- 
lightful to hear good actors of those characters, 
particularly when they chance to be in the hu- 
mour to badger each other ; and as the dialogue 
in some of those plays (Goldoni's and some of 
Gozzi's excepted) is spoken mostly impromptu, 
it is truly astonishing. Goldoni was a charming 
writer ; Voltaire called him the Painter of Nature ; 
his muse was wonderfully prolific ; he has writ- 
ten, as I have been told, above one hundred plays, 
and finished his dramatic career in Paris by writing,' 
when he was upwards of seventy years of age, a 
comedy in the French language. 

Another popular and prolific author was the one 
I have just mentioned, Conte Carlos Gozzi, a 
Venetian nobleman. I saw one of his comedies. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 157 

which had been translated into German, performed 
at Vienna ; it was a favourite stock piece there 
indeed, at one period, Gozzi was the rival of 
Goldoni, and nearly beat him from the field ; he 
took the theatre of St. Giovan Chrisostomo, and 
brought forward pieces full of show and pagean- 
try. I saw his Mostro Turchino (the Blue Mon- 
ster,) Le Tre Corve, (the Three Crows), L' Uccello 
Belvedere (the Beautiful Bird), &c. all pieces of 
enchantment, performed ; there was, I thought, a 
great deal of stage effect in them : but his chief 
dependence at that period was upon gorgeous spec- 
tacle. He appeared to go upon the old Spanish 
proverb, that 

The eye never grows wise ; 

All have eyes, 

And only few have understanding. 

Be that as it may, the public flocked wherever his 
.pieces were represented ; and, for a length of time, 
Goldoni's regular dramas were neglected. 

I had the satisfaction, many times and oft (not 
on the Rialto, but in the very next street to it), 
to dine in company with the veteran Sacchi, at 
the house of his Excellency II Conte Pissani. 
Nothing could be to me more delightful than the 
innumerable stories and anecdotes with which this 
old man's conversation abounded ; he was as 



158 REMINISCENCES OF 

sprightly as a boy, full of good humour and good 
nature. I remember one day he told us a story, 
that a short time previous, he was passing near 
the church of St. Giovanni, with a nobleman of 
very singular character, who was of very obscure 
origin ; but his father having made an immense 
fortune in the Levant trade, purchased an estate 
and barony in Friuli for his son. The inordi- 
nate pride of this novus homo, rendered him uni- 
versally ridiculous ; but he was much flattered 
with having the witty Sacchi in his train, who 
laughed at him even while loading him with 
adulation. 

As they were walking along one day, some 
priests, carrying the host to a dying person, 
passed them ; every one in the street, as it is the 
custom in all Roman Catholic countries, fell on their 
knees, with their heads bare, bowing to the ground ; 
amongst the rest, the proud baron knelt with 
great devotion ; Sacchi, who was close to him, 
only took his hat off, and slightly inclined his 
head as the host went by, and did not go on his 
knees. The baron, quite shocked at this apparent 
want of religion and respect, exclaimed with 
affected humility, " Signer Sacchi, I am petrified ; 
to a poor miserable mortal like myself you pay 
every obsequious homage ; yet when the holy host 
passed you, instead of prostrating yourself before 



MICHAEL KELLY. 159 

it, you only made a slight inclination with your 

head." 

" Very true, my Lord," replied Sacclii ; " I 
admit the fact, but the host must not be made 
game of, and that makes all the difference." 

O ' 

Sacchi was an enthusiast in favour of his art, 
and its professors who had been celebrated be- 
fore his time ; and was always particularly pleased 
to recount any anecdotes which might redound 
to the credit of the profession. He said that 
the celebrated wit and harlequin, Dominic, was 
sometimes admitted to the high honour of dining 
at the table of Louis XIV. ; and that Tiberio 
Fiorelli, who invented the character of Sca- 
ramouch, had been the amusing companion 
of the boyhood of the same great monarch, 
and that from him Moliere himself had learnt 
much. 

One morning, while I was enjoying myself in 
all the delights of a circle so gay and accomplished 
as that in which I was luckily placed, I received a 
visit from my friend and patron with the long tail. 
He came to tell me that the manager of the theatre 
at Brescia was in Venice, forming a company to 
open his theatre with a comic opera for the 
ensuing fair. The fair at Brescia is greatly fre- 
quented from all parts of Italy, by all descriptions 
of mercantile people ; that fair, and the fair of 



160 REMINISCENCES OF 

Senegaglia, in the Pope's dominions (where Ca~ 
talani was born,) are the greatest in Italy. My 
patron proposed to introduce me to the mana- 
ger, which I acceded to, and had an interview 
with him, which terminated by his engaging me 
as his tenor singer. He agreed to pay me eighty 
Venetian golden ducats ; not much, to be sure ; 
the time, however, to be employed was not quite 
two months, and those too in the summer sea- 
son. But the engagement had advantages besides 
pecuniary ones ; I was delighted to find that 
my prima donna was to be the beautiful Ortabella, 
my first and great favourite. My patron, 
Signer Bertini (the manager), and I, dined to- 
gether, and settled the engagement over our 
wine. My patron and the manager seemed to be 
old cronies, and I had heard much of Bertini 
myself, for he had gained a good deal of credit 
by a trick which he played off upon a celebrated 
singer whom he had engaged to perform at the 
last fair, in a, grand serious opera; the Signor 
demanded an enormous salary, which the nobility 
of Brescia insisted upon it should be given to 
him, and Bertini was obliged to submit. The 
expensive Signor never performed any where with- 
out receiving, beyond his great salary, all his tra- 
velling expenses (let him come from whatever dis- 
tance he would), and having, during his stay. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 161 

apartments for himself, and a table provided for 
six persons ; and these conditions were always in- 
cluded in the Signer's articles. 

In pursuance of such an engagement, he arrived 
at Brescia, and invited three friends to dine with 
him ; they came : he ordered his servants to let 
the manager know that he was ready for dinner, 
and desired it might be put down. The Signer's 
servant returned, and said that there was no dinner 
prepared ; the infuriated performer went down 
stairs to the manager, and inquired why his dinner 
had not been prepared in proper time ? " Sir," 
replied the manager, " you gave no orders about 
providing dinner." 

" How, Sir," said the singer, "is it not set down 
in my articles, that you are to provide a table for 
six persons?" 

" Undoubtedly, Sir, such is my agreement, and 
I do not deny it ; if you will walk into the dinner- 
room," (in the middle of which stood a new table,) 
" you will see that I have fulfilled it to the letter ; 
there, Sir, is your table, and a handsomer piece of 
furniture for its purpose, I flatter myself you never 
saw ; and you will find that it accommodates six 
with the greatest convenience." 

*< The table is extremely good," quoth the singer, 
" but where is the dinner, Sir ?" 

" Oh !" replied the manager, " as for the dinner, 



162 REMINISCENCES OF 

that I know nothing about; the words of the 
engagement are, that I am to provide you a table 
for six, persons ; I not only have provided one, but 
I have gone beyond my bargain, for that will hold 
eight; but not one syllable will you find in the 
articles which binds me to find you either eatables 
or drinkables ; and to my engagement I will stick." 

" Then, Sir, I will not sing at your theatre," 
said the Signer. 

" With all my heart, Signer,"" answered Bertini ; 
" you are under a penalty of a thousand zecchinos 
if you do not fulfil your agreement ; I shall be 
ready to try in a court of law, whether I am bound 
to provide food for you, when the words in the 
articles distinctly are, a table for six persons, and 
nothing more." The manager stuck to his point, 
and the enraged musician was obliged to submit ; 

o o 

but was much more chagrined, it was said, at the 
trick so successfully played upon him, than at the 
loss of the dinner to which he thought himself 
entitled. 

As I was not to be at Brescia before the third 
week in June, I determined to return to Padua to 
spend a few days during the fair of St. Anthony ; 
for at that period every one who can afford it, 
resorts thither from Venice; so that during the 
fair time, Padua, which I found so dull, is crowded 
with noble Venetians, who vie with each other in 



MICHAEL KELLY. 163 

the splendour of their equipages. A Venetian 
nobleman's establishment is very expensive, as he 
must have his gondolas and gondoliers in Venice, 
and when he goes to his country-house, of course a 
land equipage. 

I was exceedingly amused with what I saw in 
Padua; and amongst the sights which possessed 
the never-failing charm of novelty, were races on 
the Corso by running footmen, whose speed, I 
think, would astonish the English patrons of pedes- 
trianism. I found, besides, the attraction of a 
charming opera : and above all, I there first heard 
the afterwards celebrated singer, Crescentini. I 
was delighted. David, the popular tenor of his 
day, I remember, performed the character of larba, 
the Moorish king, in the opera of " La Didone 
abbandonata ;" and the prima donna, although she 
sang and acted extremely well, was, since the 
truth must be told, extremely ugly. At the 
general rehearsal of the opera, where there were 
numbers of people assembled, David said, what 
shewed his want of good nature and gallantry. 
When larba is introduced to Dido, seated on 
her throne to receive him, his confidant asks him, 
" Qual ti sembra, O Signor ?" " What do you 
think of her?" larba answers, " Superba e bella." 
" Proud and beautiful." Instead of saying this, 
David substituted the following agreeable excla- 



164 REMINISCENCES OF 

mation, " Superba e brutta !" " Proud and ugly f 
As Ma thews sa} 7 s, " it made a great laugh at the 
time ;" but David was much blamed for his attempt 
at wit, which was reckoned extremely gross, parti- 
cularly as the lady's homeliness was not to be made 
a joke of. 

The theatre at Padua is handsome and com- 
modious; it has two superb stone staircases, and 
five rows of boxes. During the fair, there was a 

o 

grand room open for gambling, called La Sala 
di Ridotto, where immense sums were won and 
lost. I went two or three times to see the play, 
but never attempted to play myself ; the bank is 
generally held by the proprietors of the theatre, 
who gain more profit by that, than they do by 
either their operas or ballets. 

After staying in these scenes of gaiety and dis- 
sipation until their termination, I returned to my 
old quarters at the hotel in Venice, where I found 
a letter from my father, enclosing a letter of credit 
on a Venetian banker, together with a letter from 
Lord Granard to Mr. Strange, the English resi_ 
dent at Venice, which, however, was of no use to 
me, since Mr. Strange had returned to London 
about two months before its arrival. 

I started in due time to Brescia, and put up at 
the sign of " The Lobster," where Bertini came to 
meet me, and. conducted me to a lodging which he 



MICHAEL KELLY. 165 

"had taken for me; it was a second floor of the 
house, the first floor of which was occupied by La 
Bella Ortabella herself. I was charmed to be under 
the same roof with her, and it was, besides, very 
convenient for me to practise the duets and con- 
certed pieces. The day after she arrived we began 
our rehearsals ; the first opera was " II Fittore 
Parigino ;*" the music, by Cimarosa, was beautiful ; 
the Painter was the character allotted to me ; 
the opera pleased very much. The town of Brescia 
was all alive, being fair-time, and the theatre was 
crowded ; it was a very splendid building ; the 
boxes, of which there were five tiers, were orna- 
mented with glasses, like those of San Carlo, at 
Naples, and the seats in the pit turned up in the 
same way as in Padua. Independently of a very 
good company of singers, there was an excellent, 
and very expensive corps de ballet. 

The proprietor, who was, in fact, our osten- 
sible manager, was a most celebrated personage, 
II Cavaliere Manuel, surnamed, " II Cavaliere 
Prepotente ;" a man of inordinately bad character, 
and implacable in his revenge, wherever he took 
offence. He was enormously rich, but never would 
pay any evitable debt, which, in some degree, 
accounted for his wealth ; indeed, it was at the 
risk of life that any body pressed him for money ; 
he had in his pay a set of Sicari (assassins), who 
wore his livery, and when commanded by him? 



166 REMINISCENCES OF 

would shoot any person in the streets at noon-day ; 
woe to the man marked for his vengeance. The 
dress of these assassins, who were mostly moun- 
taineers from his own estates, consisted of scarlet 
breeches and waistcoats, and green jackets, their 
long hair was tied up in nets ; they wore enormous 
whiskers, and large cocked hats with gold buttons 
and loops ; in their belts were pistols, carbines at 
their backs, and large rapiers by their sides ; and 
yet those ruffians walked the streets at liberty, and 
though known by all classes, none dare molest or 
take notice of them. The Venetian Senate, whose 
subjects they were, never could subdue them, 
though they used every means in their power to 
do so ; and such was the state of society at the 
period of which I speak, that there was scarcely a 
noble Brescian who had not a set of them in his 
service, and rarely a week passed without an assas- 
sination. 

While I was there, one of these fellows walked 
up to a coffee-house, tapped a gentleman on the 
shoulder, and begged of him to stand aside; he 
then levelled his carbine at a person who was 
sitting on a bench at the coffee-house door, and 
shot him dead on the spot ; yet no one had suffi- 
cient courage to secure the murderer, who with 
the greatest sang froid walked unmolested to the 
church of the Jesuits, della Grazzie, where he was 
in perfect security. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 167 

Unfortunately for me, this Cavalier Manuel made 
proposals to the prima donna, La Ortabella, which 
she had the courage to reject. He attributed her 
coolness to a partiality which he suspected she 
had for me ; and told her, that her refusal of the 
honour he offered of his protection, was owing 
to her preference of a vulgar singer, and swore 
that my interference should be the worst act of my 
life. She told me this, and felt alarmed for my 
safety. A foolish frolic increased his hatred to- 
wards me. 

One day, looking at the frolic and fun going 
forward in the Eiera, with three or four of the 
opera singers, I saw a Neapolitan mountebank, 
moun.ed on a stage, holding forth to the crowd, 
telling their fortunes ; " Egad !" said I to my 
companions, " I have a mind to ask the mountebank 
a question which concerns us all :" they entreated 
me to do so. I accordingly made my way to the 
rostrum, slipped half a silver ducat into the mounte- 
bank"^ hand, and said to him, " Most potent astro- 
loger, my companions and myself, convinced of your 
great science, are anxious that you should resolve 
the question I shall put to you."" 

The mountebank pocketed the half ducat, and 
with becoming gravity desired me to state the case. 

" The question is," said I, " one which we, per- 
formers of the theatre in Brescia, are most anxious 



188 REMINISCENCES OF 

to get answered : it is, whether the proprietor will 
pay us our salaries when they become due ?" 

The mountebank replied, " Not one sou, if he 
can help it." 

I left him, and told my companions the prognos- 
tication, which they thought it extremely probable 
would be verified : this trifling circumstance was, of 
course, repeated by some of my good friends, to his 
Excellency, who was weak enough to take it as an 
offence, and told Bertini, that were it not to stop 
the performance of the theatre, he would annihilate 
me forthwith ; but that, at all events, a day of 
retribution should come ere long. 

My friend Bertini came and told me this, and 
advised me to be upon my guard whenever I went 
out. I went to wait upon Signer Conte Momelo 
Lana, the gentleman to whom Signora Benetti 
had given me a letter of recommendation, and told 
him what had passed, and the danger I thought I 
had to dread. He said he believed, from the well- 
known implacable temper of my enemy, that I had 
every thing to fear ; " but," said he, " Manuel 
must know that you are under my protection ; and 
I assure you, that if he assassinates you, I will 
revenge you? I thanked the Count for his kind 
intentions, but told him I would rather not trouble 
him, and that I thought the best thing I could do, 
was to beat a retreat. 

3 



MICHAEL KELLY. 169 

The Count said, I must be cautious how I did 
that, for if he got a scent of my intention, he would 
order his Sicari to despatch me. " There is but one 
thing you can do, 11 said he, " to get out of his reach : 
and I will give you every aid to accomplish it : 
the grand ballet of the siege of Troy, which is now 
performing, lasts an hour and a half at least, and 
is played after the first act of the opera ; immedi- 
ately before the ballet commences, go to your room, 
-change the coat and waistcoat in which you perform, 
and put on your own; then Jock your door, put 
your pelisse over you, watch your opportunity 
while they are in the bustle of preparing the ballet, 
slip out at the door at the back of the stage, and at 
the bottom of the street you will find my travelling 
carriage ready ; my servant Stephano shall accom- 
pany you till he places you safe in Verona ; once 
there, you are out of the reach of Manuel and his 
assassins ; there he has no power to harm you. I 
will give you a letter of recommendation to my 
intimate friend and relation, the Count Bevi Acqua, 
who has interest sufficient to render you every 
service ; he is a worthy man, and a great patron of 
the arts." He then offered to accommodate me 
with the loan of money, which I refused, as I had 
my father's remittance untouched, which was most 
ample for all my present wants. 

It was agreed that I should put his excellent 

VOL. i. I 



170 REMINISCENCES OF 

project into execution the next night; he wrote 
me the letter for the Marquis Bevi Acqua, and the 
next evening I followed his directions implicitly, got 
to the end of the street, found the faithful Stephano, 
.and, as fast as the horses could carry us on an 
excellent road, at full speed, escaped from Brescia 
and its threatened perils. I was full of terror till we 
got a few miles distant ; we found horses ready at 
the first stage, and did not stop till we arrived at 
Desenzano, on the Lago di Garda, where we were 
beyond all dread of pursuit. I managed to send a 
small bundle of clothes the evening before I quitted 
Brescia to Stephano, which he put into his masters 
carriage; my trunks I left behind me, and requested 
my kind friend, Count Momolo Lana, to send them 
immediately after me to Verona, gave him the 
amount of what I had to pay for my lodgings, and 
begged him to write me an account of the sensation 
my escape made, and to give every publicity to the 
reasons why I quitted the place : I also left with 
him a letter to deliver to my kind and friendly 
Signora Ortabella, expressing the great regret I felt 
in quitting her, and hoping that we should soon 
meet on safer ground than Brescia, where a man ran 
the risk, if only commonly attentive to a woman, of 
having half a dozen bullets put into his body. 

I arrived safe at Verona, which I thought rather 
fortunate, as the greatest part of the road from 



MICHAEL KELLY. 171 

Desenzano was infested by numerous banditti. I 
scarcely travelled a quarter of a mile without seeing 

a little wooden cross stuck by the road side, as a 

./ 

mark that some one had been murdered on the spot. 
I put up at the sign of the Due Tori, and the day 
after my arrival hired a pair of horses, to take the 
Count Lana's carriage and his faithful Stephano 
back to Brescia. On the third day of my residence 
in Verona, I received a letter from the Count, 
together with my trunks : he mentioned in his 
letter, that on the night of my departure, when the 
ballet was over, and the second act of the opera 
just about to begin, the greatest confusion prevailed 
amongst the performers ; they searched every where 
for me, sent to my lodgings, where of course they 
could obtain no information, but they had not the 
slightest suspicion of my flight : an apology was 
necessarily made from the stage to the public, stating 
that I was not to be found; and, perforce, the 
opera was acted, omitting the scenes in which I was 
concerned. 

Immediately afterwards, my friend the Count, 
caused the letter I had written, (explaining the rea- 
sons for my departure, and stating all that Count 
Manuel had told Bertini, of his intention to anni- 
hilate me), to be printe'd and widely circulated. In 
his letter to me, he mentioned, that he had a double 
motive for thus effectually giving publicity to my 



REMINISCENCES OF 

case ; in the first place, he was anxious to exculpate 
me with the public, for breaking my engagement ; 
and in the second, his object was, to deter my 
enemy from following up his revengeful threats, 
for that if any serious mischance should befal me, 
the world would, after such an exposition, naturally 
conclude him to be the author of it, and that he 
would consequently become responsible. He added, 
that the public considered me perfectly justified jn 
my conduct. 

Count Manuel, when the affair became known, 
publicly denied ever having had any intention to 
injure me ; but those who knew him, weighing his 
general character in the scale opposite to that in 
which they placed the circumstances of the case, 
fully and clearly detailed as they had been, believed 
neither his assertions nor asseverations upon this 
point. I was, however, thank God, out of his 
reach before his virtue was put to the proof; the 
circumstance was talked of all over Italy, but, 
in justice to myself, I ought to say, that I never 
heard of any blame attaching to me for my conduct. 
In due season, after my arrival at Verona, I 
waited upon the Marquis of Bevi Acqua to deliver 
my letter of introduction. I found him at home 
in his magnificent house ; he received me with 
marked kindness, and did me the honour to intro- 
duce me to his lady and three of her lovely daugh- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 173 

ters. The letter explained the particulars of my 
story, and the Marquis invited me the next evening 
to a concert at his house. Of course I accepted 
the invitation. I found an elegant assemblage of 
the first people of Verona. In the course of the 
evening, I sang two songs, and accompanied myself 
on the piano-forte, and the company seemed pleased 
with me. The story of my escape from Brescia, and 
its half-romantic cause, had created no small share 
of interest for me; and when I waited on the 
Marquis the next morning, I found that he and 
the Marchioness had planned a public concert for 
me under their patronage. I was introduced by 
them to Signer Barbella, the first piano-fortist 
and composer in Verona, who was directed by 
the Marquis to engage the concert-room and per- 
formers for me; all which he did with economy 
and punctuality. 

The Marquis told me he was an enthusiastic 
admirer of Shakspeare, particularly of Romeo and 
Juliet, and took me to see the tomb of Juliet. 
Indeed, the people of Verona are very proud of 
recounting the history of those ill-fated lovers, and 
taking foreigners to see their resting place. I felt 
great delight in visiting the spot. Juliet's tomb 
was in the church of St. Permo Magiani ; its sides 
were a good deal mutilated, as strangers who visit 
it are in the habit of breaking off pieces to keep 
as relics. 



174 REMINISCENCES OF 

Verona, though not very large, is a very hand- 
some city ; the streets are wide, and generally 
well built. Sacchi and his company of comedians 
were performing at the amphitheatre, said to have 
been erected by Vitruvius. The arena of Verona 
is a stupendous fabric; forty-five rows of marble 
steps surround it ; they will hold twenty thousand 
people, commodiously seated: in the centre of 
this place, in the summer, there are plays which 
are acted by day-light; a temporary theatre is 
erected, which is taken down every winter; there 
are no boxes ; the enclosed space forms an immense 
pit, with chairs, where the fashionable and better 
sort of the audience are seated ; the second best 
places are on the steps, twelve or fourteen deep, 
railed off from the rest of the steps ; the seats are 
all of naked marble, and the whole is in the open 
air. This immense building, and the Coliseum at 
Rome, are the two most stupendous fabrics I ever 
beheld. 

There was no city in Italy of its size, at the time 
I visited it, which could boast of so many good 
musical amateurs, vocal and instrumental, as Verona. 
Signor Barbella promised to take me to a concert, 
performed by one family only ; to my very great 
surprise he took me to gaol, and introduced me to the 
gaoler. We were shewn into an apartment elegantly 
furnished, and after we had taken our coffee and 
chasse, had really an excellent concert ; the per- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 175 

formers were, the gaoler, who played the double 
bass ; his two eldest sons, first and second violin ; 
a third the violoncello ; his youngest son, the viola; 
one of his daughters presided at the harpsichord, 
and his two youngest daughters executed some airs 
and duets extremely well. They had good voices, 
and sang like true artists : the whole of this gifted 
family were amateurs ; the young men were in 
different trades, but had they been obliged to live 
by music, they could in my opinion have success- 
fully adopted it as a profession in any part of Italy. 
They were all enthusiasts and excellent performers, 
and extremely courteous in their behaviour ; and I 
returned to my hotel, after having supped with 
them, much gratified by the pleasant evening I had 
passed, though it was in prison. 

The Sunday following this exhibition was ap- 
pointed for my concert, and the room, owing to the 
popularity and interest of the Marquis and Mar- 
chioness, was crowded ; Signer Barbella conducted 
the performance ; Signor Salinbeni was first violin ; 
and, luckily, Signora Chiavaci, a very good singer, 
was passing through Verona on her way to the 
theatre at Bergamo at the time, and being an inti- 
mate friend of Signor Barbella, at his request, she 
agreed to stop a day and sing at my concert, which 
she did gratuitously, and was much and deservedly 
applauded* 



176 REMINISCENCES OF 

The nett receipts of this concert were 71 zee- 
chinos (about 30/. British ) ; in addition to which, 
the Marquis made me a special present for his own- 
ticket. I was now high in spirits, and not low in 
cash ; and, as good fortune never comes alone, on 
the morning after my concert, I received a letter, 
forwarded from Brescia to me, from Signer Giani, 
the manager of Treviso, offering me an engagement 
for six weeks, at 50 zecchinos, which I accepted, 
and promised to be in Treviso in three days after 
the date of my answer. 

I waited upon my worthy friends, the Marquis 
and Marchioness of Bevi Acqua, to take my leave 
of them, and parted from them with grateful regret; 
they were all affability and condescension : indeed, 
I liked every thing about them, except their name, 
to which, Bevi Acqua, (in English, Drrnkwaler^} 
at no period of my life could I bring myself to be 
partial, although there are several very estimable 
persons so called in England at this present moment. 
The Marquis gave me a letter to Signora Marcello, 
a Venetian lady of consideration, who resided at 
Treviso, whose husband was a noble Venetian, and 
a descendant of the celebrated composer of sacred 
music, Benedetto Marcello. Before I set off, I 
went and took leave of the musical gaoler, and his 
harmonious family ; and having made all due 
preparation for my departure, hired a valet, and 



MICHAEL KELLY. 177 

\ 

started for Vicenza, where I supped and slept. In 
the morning, I walked about the city, which I 
found extremely neat and pretty, and the country 
about it very beautiful. After breakfast, I set off 
for Treviso, and was delighted by the appearance 
of the elegant villas which surround it, belonging 
to noble Venetians, who, during the theatrical season, 
pass their vendemmias there, and have what they 
call their cuganas (i. e. revelries). 

Treviso itself, during this period, is crowded 
with people of less exalted rank from Venice, 
which is within a few miles; and, as the canals 
at Venice are at certain periods very offensive, every 
one who can, quits it for Padua or Treviso. 

I found engaged, as prima donna at Treviso, 
the celebrated Clementina Bagliona (to whom I had 
been introduced at Pisa by Signor Viganoni) ; and 
for the first buffo, her sister's husband, Signor 
Pozzi, who, when at Rome, met with the kind 
treatment from his patron and friend, the Roman 
Abbe, which I have already endeavoured to de- 
scribe. 

The theatre was crowded every night, and the 
opera, as well as the ballets, gave great satisfaction. 
I waited upon her Excellency La Signora Marcello, 
and delivered my letter of introduction given me 
by the Marquis Bevi Acqua. She gave me an 
invitation to her morning concerts, where I met- 

i 5 



378 REMINISCENCES OF 

all the beau monde of Treviso, and passed many 
delightful hours. In that very house, many years 
afterwards, lived my lamented friend the late Mrs. 
Billington, who has described to me the period of 
her residence in it, as the most miserable of her 
existence. 

At one of Madame MarcehVs concerts, I had 
the pleasure of hearing the greatest reputed dilet- 
tante singer in Europe, La Signora Teresa de Petris. 
Nor was her reputation higher than her merits ; she 
had one of the finest voices I ever heard, combined 
with great science and expression : in addition to 
this, she was very beautiful, and had about her 
all the Venetian fascination. She married a noble 
Venetian, II Signor Veniera, but, for some reason, 
was separated from him. Her cavaliere servente 
was Count Vidiman, a handsome and rich young 
nobleman, who resided at Venice, and who was 
devoted to music and to her. He was also a great 
protector of the composer Anfossi, and so attached 
to his music, that he would scarcely listen to any 
other. He had fixed a performance to take place 
at Venice the beginning of Lent ; an oratorio com- 
posed expressly for her Excellency La Signora de 
Petris, by Anfossi, was to be performed at Count 
Pepoli's private theatre. The Count called upon 
me one morning, and said, " La Signora de Petris 
wishes that you should perform in the oratorio 



MICHAEL KELLY. 179 

with her. If you -think it worth your consideration, 
I offer you an engagement for four months." 

I was elated at the proposition, and accepted his 
offer. I was to be at his command for four months, 
to remain during that period at Venice, and to 
accept of no public engagement whatever. I could 
not have met with any thing so pleasing, as my 
delight was Venice, and its amusements were con- 
genial to my taste and time of life. 

We were now within a few nights of closing the 
theatre at Treviso, and Count Vidiman and Signora 
de Petris were going to Udina, the capital of Friuli, 
where he had large estates ; and afterwards to spend 
a month or six weeks with his mother, the old 
Countess, with whom La Signora de Petris was a 
great favourite. The Count having heard me ex- 
press a wish to visit Parma, said, he thought that 
the time he should be absent at Udina would be the 
most convenient whereat to satisfy my curiosity; 
and besides, I then might have a chance of uniting 
profit with pleasure, as the Arch-duchess, who was 
a lover of music, and a fine performer herself, gave 
great encouragement to musical artists who visited 
her court, and her private band was esteemed the 
choicest and best in Italy. The Count procured me 
a letter of recommendation to Her Royal Highness 
from II Signor Cavaliere Giustiniani, who had been 
at the court of Parma, Ambassador from the Vene- 



180 REMINISCENCES OF 

tian State, and while there, was in the highest 
favour. 

I set off post for the city of Modena, on my way 
to Parma ; and on my arrival there, at the door of 
the post-house, recognised Fochetti, the bass singer, 
who had performed with me when I was so much 
younger in Dublin. I made myself known to him, 
and it was an agreeable surprise to us both to meet 
where we so little expected it. I passed a pleasant 
evening with him at the inn, talking of old times, 
and Ireland ; he told me he had retired from the 
stage, with a sufficient fortune to enable him to re- 
main in his native city of Modena, where he held the 
situation of first bass singer at the reigning Duke's 
Royal Chapel. 

At an early hour the next morning, he called upon 
me to shew me what was worth seeing. Modena 
stands twenty miles west of Bologna, and twenty- 
eight east of Parma. It is curious enough, although 
perhaps generally known, that carrier pigeons are 
constantly used here for the conveyance of letters. 
It is said that this custom had its origin in Hirtius 
the consul, who adopted the use of them while Decius 
Brutus was besieged by Marc Antony. 

Fochetti took me to see the Ducal Palace. I 
thought it very superb. In it are a number of very 
fine paintings, particularly a nativity by Correggio. 
The inhabitants of Modena are not a little vain in 



MICHAEL KELLY. 181 

having to boast that the divine poet Tasso was a 
native of their city. Of the churches, those of St. 
Domingo and the Jesuits are the worthiest, of notice ; 
we went also to view the College of St. Carlo Bremeo, 
in which upwards of one hundred noblemen are 
educated. Most of the houses in the city have 
porticoes, and covered walks; their chief trade, I 
understood, consisted in masks, which they are fa- 
mous for making, and export in great numbers. 

But to proceed : After seeing the sights, I took 
an affectionate leave of my old friend ; I confess 
that the parting made me quite melancholy, and 
brought to my mind the happy days I had passed 
with him at my father's house, where he was a con- 
stant and welcome guest. However, I dissipated 
my care by travelling, and about six in the evening 
got sight of the city, so famous for its truffles and 
its cheese (of which, by the way, not one morsel is 
made in Parma, for what are called Parmesan 
cheeses are made at Piacenza and Lodi) ; and was 
set down at the Osteria di Gallo, where I took up 
my residence. 

In the morning, I was informed that Her Royal 
Highness the Arch-duchess was at her villa at 
Colorno, a few miles from town. I therefore hired 
a carriage, and proceeded thither ; I was struck with 
the magnificence of the palace, and the beauty of 
the grounds, as I approached the end of my journey ; 



182 REMINISCENCES OF 

which having achieved, I announced myself to Her 
Royal Highnesses Chamberlain, and informed him 
that I came to Colorno to present Her Royal High- 
ness with some letters from Treviso ; the Chamber- 
lain conducted me immediately to Her Royal High- 
ness^s presence. I found her in her billiard-room, 
playing with some of her suite, (amongst whom were 
the favourite musicians belonging to her band,) and 
without appearing to possess the smallest pride, 
putting every person completely at his ease by her 
fascinating condescension. She seemed in perfect 
good humour with her game, at which she appeared 
a great proficient. 

After it was concluded, she came up to me, in- 
quired most kindly after II Cavaliere Giustiniani, 
conversed with me for some time about Naples par- 
ticularly, and asked me if I had ever seen her sister, 
the Queen of Naples. I replied that I had had the 
honour of singing before Her Majesty at Posilipo. 
"Had you?" said Her Royal Highness; "then 
you shall also sing before her sister at Colorno. 
Remain here a few days, if you have time to spare, 
and we will have a little music." She then left 
the billiard-room, and desired Count Palavacini, 
her Chamberlain, to introduce me to the gentlemen 
of her private band ; they were all great favourites 
with her. I dined with them, and they were par- 
ticularly attentive to me, and had an excellent table 



MICHAEL KELLY. 183 

kept for them, covered with the best viands and 
choicest wines. I paid my respects to the Burgundy, 
which, to be sure, was delicious. 

In the evening there was a concert, which Her 
Royal Highness, attended by several Ladies of the 
Court, honoured with her presence. She was per- 
fectly affable to all the professors in the orchestra, 
and presided herself at the piano-forte ; the whole 
band was worthy of its reputation. If there were 
any superiority amongst them, in my opinion, it was 
in the French horns, played by two brothers (whose 
names I have forgotten) ; such tones I never heard 
from the instrument as those which they produced, 
in a duet they played. 

I sang Sard's rondo of " Teco resti, anima mia," 
and accompanied myself on the piano-forte. Her 
Royal Highness did me the honour to approve, and 
asked me who was my instructor ; when I mentioned 
Aprile, she said that I certainly had had the ad- 
vantage of the best of singing-masters. 

At ten o'clock the concert finished, and I retired 
to supper with the rest of the professors ; and in the 
morning, two gentlemen of the band took me in a 
court carriage to see some of the beauties of the 
neighbourhood. At twelve o'clock we attended Her 
Royal Highness at the billiard table, where she 
appeared in a morning dress, with a large apron 
before her, with pockets, in which she kept a quan- 



184 REMINISCENCES OF 

tity of silver coin; she always played for some 
trifling stake, and was very anxious to be the winner. 
She asked me if I was fond of billiards, and if I 
played; I said I had always been partial to it. 
" Come," said she, " you shall try a game with 
me :"" I had the honour of doing so, but Her Royal 
Highness beat me hollow. 

She possessed a very fine person, very tall, and 
rather large ; her features were masculine, but still 
there was a likeness between her and her sisters, the 
Queens of France and Naples. But 1 was told by 
Count Palavacini, that she was much more like her 
mother, the Empress Maria Theresa, than either of 
them. The Arch-duke of Parma, her husband, 
and herself, were upon good terms, but seldom 
together ; either of them had pursuits diametrically 
opposite to the other's taste : she, a clever acute 
woman, was fond of pleasure ; on the contrary, he 
was esteemed very weak, a great bigot, and half a 
madman ; his chief amusement and delight was, at 
different periods of the year, accompanied by some 
of the favourite noblemen of his court, to go every 
step of the way on foot, to the different cities and 
towns of his dukedom; to visit the different 
churches, and hang up tapestry ; and this too, let 
the distance be what it would from his capital. He 
was said never to be happy but in a church, mounted 
on a ladder, with a hammer in his hand. This 



MICHAEL KELLY. 185 

mania was spoken of in all parts of Italy, insomuch, 
that he was nick-named the Royal Upholsterer ; but, 
with the exception of this strange propensity, he was 
thought harmless and good-natured. 

I stopped a week at Colorno, where there was 
music every night, and had great pleasure in hear- 
ing the Arch-duchess's performance. On rny taking 
leave of Her Royal Highness, she gave me a rouleau 
of fifty zecchinos, and a beautiful little enamelled 
watch, set round with small diamonds, and a gold 
chain ; on my kissing her hand for her liberality 
and condescending kindness, she was pleased to 
compliment me, and wished me every success. I 
took my dutiful leave of her, and bade adieu to the 
gentlemen of the orchestra, whose kindness and 
attention were so marked during my delightful stay 
at Colorno. 

I returned to Parma, and the Grand Theatre 
not being open for representations, I got permission 
the next morning to see it. I was much pleased 
at having an opportunity of viewing so fine an 
edifice, it being much larger than the theatre of 
St. Carlo at Naples ; or, indeed, than any other in 
Europe. There was a small theatre open at the 
time, where plays were representing. I went one 
evening to see Goldoni's Comedy of " II Padre di 
Famiglia." The celebrated Petronio's acting of the 
Father, was a fine performance. The house was 



186 IIEMIXISCEKCES OF 

crowded, and some very beautiful women graced 
the boxes. The next day, at the cathedral (one 
of the finest in Europe), I heard a mass of Jomelli's 
chaunted; the singers and band were numerous 
and excellent. I remained two days longer there, 
seeing what was worth viewing, and then, without 
delay on the road, posted to Bologna, and took up 
my abode at my old friend Passerines, who was as 
kind as ever to me. 

While at Bologna, Signor Tambourini, the great 
theatrical broker, offered me two engagements for 
the autumn and carnival ; one for Barcelona in 
Spain, and the other for Warsaw ; both of which I 
was obliged to decline on account of my engage- 
ment at Venice, to which place I shortly proceeded; 
and, in a few days, the Count Vidiman, and La 
Signora de Petris, returned thither from Udina. It 
was then the month of October, all the theatres 
open, and the Piazza St. Marc in all its revelry, 
crowded with masks, &c. &c. I paid my respects 
to the Count and the Lady ; the Count desired I 
should quit my Hotel, and, for the term of my stay 
at Venice, reside at the house of La Signora de 
Petris, where he said it would be more comfortable 
and economical for me. I had an excellent apart- 
ment there ; she kept a table which would have 
gratified Apicius himself. Count Vidiman had an 
elegant Casino in the Piazza St. Marc, where, every 



MICHAEL KELLY. 187 

night, he saw a number of friends ; after they came 
from the theatres, there was always a little music, 
at which the Lady presided; and afterwards a 
supper. La Signora de Petris had boxes at all 
the theatres, whither I used to accompany her 
whenever she went to them. 

At the Theatre of St. Marc, I used to sit at the 
piano-forte as an amateur, and accompany the comic 
operas ; it was amusement, as well as improvement, 
to me. At the Theatre of St. Samuel there was a 
powerful comic opera ; at the head of it was my 
old friend Madame Storace ; her success was great 
indeed. Signor Vicenzo Martini, the celebrated 
Spanish composer, composed the opera ; his was a 
soul of melody, and melody is the rarest gift a com- 
poser can possess, and one which few attain to. I 
may with safety aver, from my own knowledge, that 
I have met with ninety-nine good theorists to one 
melodist ; nature makes the one, study the other. 
Two of the greatest theorists I ever met with were, 
Friar Padre Martini of Bologna, and Sala, the 
master of the Conservatorio della Pieta, Naples; 
yet neither of these ever produced a remarkable 
melody that I recollect ; I mean, not such a One as 
our justly celebrated composer, Dr. Arne, used to 
say, " would grind about the streets upon the 
organ." 

I cannot omit here quoting what the immortal 



188 REMINISCENCES OF 

Haydn has mentioned on the subject of melody ; 
he said, " It is the air which is the charm of 
music, arid it is that, which is most difficult to pro- 
duce; patience and study are sufficient for the 
composition of agreeable sounds, but the invention 
of a fine melody is the work of genius ; the truth is, 
a fine air needs neither ornament nor accessories, in 
order to please, would you know whether it really 
be fine, sing it without accompaniments.'' 1 

Storace drew overflowing houses, she was quite 
the rage ; she announced a benefit, the first ever 
given to any performer at Venice ; but, being an 
Englishwoman, it was granted to her. The house 
overflowed ; her mother stood at the door to receive 
the cash ; the kind-hearted and liberal Venetians 
not only paid the usual entrance money, but left 
all kinds of trinkets, watch chains, rings, &c., to 
be given to her ; it was a most profitable receipt 
for her, and highly complimentary to her talents ; 
but, notwithstanding those honours were heaped 
upon her, a circumstance occurred, which gave her 
the most poignant annoyance, as well as her mother 
and her friends. 

I have already stated that Stephen Storace was 
her brother, and that she had no other brother, or 
a sister ; yet, an unprincipled woman came to 
Venice, and gave out that she was the sister of 
Signora Storace, took up her abode in a street called 



MICHAEL KELLY. 189 

La Calla di Carbone, (a quarter of the town where 
ladies of her description were obliged to reside,) 
where she had her portrait hung out of her window, 
and under it written, Questo e il ritratto della 
sorella della Signora Storace ( i. e. this is the 
portrait of Signora Storace's sister). It is almost 
incredible that people should be so duped ; but it 
is an absolute fact, that the woman's apartments 
were daily crowded by all ranks, to see the supposed 
sister of their favourite songstress ; and the impostor 
gained a large sum of money by the price paid for 
admission to see her. The game was carried on 
for some time, but on some of Storace's friends 
making application to the police, the imposture was 
detected, and its contriver imprisoned, and sub- 
sequently banished the Venetian Republic. 

It had been an ancient custom in Venice for per- 
sonages of this lady's vocation to have their portraits 
painted, and hung out of the windows of their 
apartments, to attract notice and visitors. In Mrs. 
Behn's Comedy of " The Rovers," which was re- 
vived and altered by Mr. Kemble, and successfully 
produced at Drury Lane under the title of " Love 
in many Masks," is a character drawn of one of 
those women, whose portrait is seen hanging out of 
a balcony on the stage. 

I was one morning sitting in the Rialto coffee- 
house with my long-tailed patron, and stating that 



190 REMINISCENCES OF 

Storace never had a sister, and wondering that the 

o 

people of Venice could be so imposed upon, when 
an Abbe, who was sitting close to us, said, " Your 
observation may be very true, Sir, that the people 
of Venice, in the instance of which you speak, have 
proved themselves credulous, but, surely not more 
so than your own countrymen ; when I was in 
London, I was told that they had been taken in 
by a mountebank, who advertised that he would, 
at one of their theatres, creep into a quart bottle. 
The house was crowded to witness this incredible 
exhibition, but the cunning mountebank, after 
pocketing the money received at the doors, made 
off with it, and was on his way to Dover before 
the humbug was found out. Now, Sir, I beg to 
ask you, which of the two nations, English or 
Venetian, proved itself the greatest dupe?" The 
question was a puzzler, and I was glad not to pro- 
ceed further with the subject, remembering, a little 
too late, the saying, that those who live in glass 
houses should not throw stones. 

I continued, until the end of the Carnival, pass- 
ing my time with very little variation, living in the 
lap of luxury, and in a vortex of pleasure. We 
besan the rehearsal of Anfossi's oratorio, and the 

o 

first week in Lent the performance commenced. 
I had a song which had been composed purposely 
for me, and sent from London by Anfossi to Count 

2 



MICHAEL KELLY. 191 

Vidiman. Nothing could exceed the brilliancy 
of Signora de Petris' execution and feeling ; she 
sang divinely, and we repeated the oratorio eight 
nights to the fashionables invited by the Count 
and the Signora. There was a particular friend 
of hers, Sigiior Gioacino Bianchi, then an amateur, 
a man of very good family, and a sweet singer; 
but, owing to some circumstances of a tender 

7 O 

nature, he quitted Venice, and went to England, 
where he became a singing-master of eminence, 
esteemed by all his friends for urbanity and talent, 
and highly patronised by the Earl and Countess of 
Har court. 
-One morning I received a message from His 

O ) ~ 

Excellency the Austrian Ambassador, desiring 

me to go to him in the evening. I waited on 

His Excellency, who informed me that he had 

received a letter from Prince Rosenberg, Grand 

Chamberlain of His Majesty Joseph the Second, 

Emperor of Germany, directing him to engage a 

company of Italian 'singers for a comic opera, 

to be given at the Court of Vienna; that no 

expense was to be spared, so that the artists 

.were of the first order; that no secondary talent 

would be received amongst them, and that 

characters were to be filled by those engaged, 

.without distinction, according to their abilities; 

.and the will of the director, appointed by the 

Emperor. 



REMINISCENCES OF 

The Italian opera had for a length of time 
been discontinued at Vienna, and a first-rate 
French company of comedians substituted. The 
Emperor and his Court were at Schoenbrunn, 
and the French company were performing there; 
apartments in the palace had been appointed 
for them, and a plentiful table allotted to their 
exclusive use. One day, while they were drinking 
their wine, and abusing it, the Emperor passed 
by the salle a manger, which opened into the 
Royal Gardens. One of the gentlemen, with the 
innate modesty so peculiarly belonging to his 
nation and profession, jumped up from table 
with a glass of wine in his hand, followed His 
Majesty, and said, " Sire, I have brought your 
Majesty some of the trash which is given us by 
your purveyor, by way of wine ; we are all dis- 
gusted at his treatment, and beg to request your 
Majesty to order something better, for it is abso- 
lutely impossible for us to drink it ; he says it is 
Burgundy do taste it, Sire, I am sure you will 
not say it is." 

The King, with great composure, tasted the 
wine: "I think it excellent,' said His Majesty, 
* at least, quite good enough for me, though, per- 
haps, not sufficiently high- flavoured for you and 
your companions ; in France, I dare say, you will 
<*et much better/' 1 He then turned on his heel, 

D 

and sending immediately for the Grand Chamber- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 193 

Jain, ordered the whole corps dramatique to be. 
discharged, and expelled Vienna forthwith. They 
repented their folly, but His Majesty would never 
hear more of them, and their audacity caused the 
introduction of an Italian opera at Vienna. 

Count Durazzo read the letter containing this 
anecdote to a numerous party assembled at his 
house, who were much amused at it. His Excel- 
lency then asked me if I should like to go to 
Vienna ; if I did, he would enlist me into the ser- 
vice. I thanked his Excellency, and answered 

J * 

that I should not desire better. The Countess 
Rosenberg kindly promised, that if I went there, 
she would give me some letters which might be of 
great service to me; and his Excellency desired 

/ 

me to consider of it for u day or two, and then 
return and bring my proposals to him. The term 
of my engagement with Count Vidiman having just 
expired, I mentioned to him the offer which had 
been made me, which he considered highly advan- 
tageous. Decided by this disinterested advice, 
I waited upon his Excellency the Ambassador, 
and concluded an engagement for one year, my 
salary being at the rate of 4?OQ Venetian golden 
ducats (200/.) ; to be lodged free of expense, fuel 
bund me, and four large wax candles per cliem, 
-Inch was the customary allowance. I signed the 
greement with his Excellency, and was highly 

VOL. I. K 



194 REMINISCENCES OF 

contented with it, and thought myself most lucky 
in having made it. Madame Storace was also 
engaged, and the two best comic singers in Europe, 
Bennuci and Mandini. 

When the time for my departure arrived, the 
Countess of Rosenberg gave me, as she had 
promised, a letter to her noble relative, the Grand 
Chamberlain ; one to Prince Charles of Lichten- 
stein, Governor of Vienna, and one to Sir Robert 
Keith, His Britannic Majesty's Minister at Vienna. 
From Count Durazzo I had one for Grand Marshal 
Lacy, one for Marshal Laudon, and a third for 
the illustrious and witty Prince de Ligne ; more 
powerful recommendations no young man perhaps 
could boast ; and, as in my road to Vienna I had 
to pass through the city of Udina, my kind friend 
Count Vidiman gave me also a letter of intro- 
duction to the Countess his mother, as well as one 
to the Venetian Count Manini, both of whom 
resided at Udina. 

Thus prepared, I set off from Venice in a 
calessetto, accompanied by my servant, for Udina ; 
and it was with a heavy heart I quitted dear Italy, 
in which I had been so warmly patronised, and 
found such kindness and hospitality. I proceeded, 
however, on my journey, and alighted at a very 
comfortable inn, on the sign of which was written, 
in capital letters, " No trust to-day, but to-mor- 






MICHAEL KELLY. 

TOW."" I was a good deal amused at the flying 
promise, never to be fulfilled. 

Udina is twenty-two leagues from Venice ; the 
town is very neat and pretty, the suburbs particu- 
larly so ; the language of the inhabitants is a Patois, 
a mixture of Italian, French, and German ; the Ve- 
netians ridicule them for a singular mode they have 
of calling night, evening, and evening*, night. When 
the Venetians speak of them, they say, " Gente 
cui si fa notte inanzi sera."" (i. e. People to whom 
night appears before evening.) I lost no time in 
delivering my credentials to the Countess Vidiman, 
and afterwards went to present my letter to Count 
Manini, who was residing at a magnificent country 
seat of his, called Pascan ; he made me quit my 
inn, and stay with him for a couple of days. He 
entertained me splendidly and hospitably, and, on 
my departure, ordered some delicious wine, made 
on his own estate, called Picolet, (the taste of 
which resembled Tokay, but less sweet,) to be put 
into my calessetto. 

After a tedious journey, I arrived at Vienna, 
and put up at the sign of the White Ox ; and, on 
the following morning, waited upon Signer SalierL, 
to deliver my letter of recommendation from 
Signor Bertoni. Salieri was a Venetian, and a 
scholar of the celebrated composer Guzman ; 
Salieri, himself, indeed, was a composer of emi- 



196 



REMINISCENCES OF 



nence. He was Maestro di Cappelia at the 
Court of Vienna, and a great favourite with the 
Emperor. He presided at the harpsichord at the 
theatre, and was sub-director under Prince Rosen- 
berg, Grand Chamberlain of the Court. He was 
a little man, with an expressive countenance, and 
his eyes were full of genius. I have often heard 
Storace's mother say, he was extremely like Gar- 
rick. He received me politely, and informed me 
that his opera of " La Scuola dei Gelosi," was the 
first to be performed, in which I was to make my 
debut. He accompanied me to the apartments 
which had been taken for me, and which consisted 
of an excellent first and second floor, elegantly 
furnished, in the most delightful part of Vienna. 
I was found, as usual, in fuel and wax candles, 
and a carriage to take me to rehearsals, and to 
and from the theatre, whenever I performed. 

After having been duly installed in my new 
residence. I delivered all my recommendatory let- 
ters, and was delighted with the reception I met 
v ith, from those to whom they were addressed ; 
particularly from Marshals Laudon and Lacy, and 
Sir Robert Keith, the affability of the last was 
highly flattering to my feelings. I was altogether 
delighted, and thought Vienna a delightful city, 
rnd a charming place of residence. In a fortnight 
after my arrival the theatre opened. Storace and 



MICHAEL KELLY. 197 

Bennuci's receptions were perfectly enthusiastic, and 
I may perhaps be permitted to say, that I had no 
reason to complain of my own. 

The Emperor, Joseph II. accompanied by his 
brother Maximilian, the Archbishop of Cologne, 
were present at the performance, and evinced their 
approbation by the applause they bestowed. At 
the period I speak of, the Court of Vienna was, 
perhaps, the most brilliant in Europe. The thea- 
tre, which forms part of the Royal Palace, was 
crowded with a blaze of beauty and fashion. All 
ranks of society were doatingly fond of music, and 
most of them perfectly understood the science. 
Indeed, Vienna then was a place where pleasure 
was the order of the day and night. 

The women, generally speaking, are beautiful ; 
they have fine complexions, and symmetrical figures, 
the lower orders particularly. All the servant- 
maids are anxious to shew their feet, (which are 
universally handsome,) and are very ambitious 
of having neat shoes and stockings. Vienna, in 
itself, then contained between 80,000 and 90,000 
inhabitants, and is surrounded by fortifications, 
which served for pleasant walks ; the ramparts 
are picturesquely beautiful. There are two Fau- 
bourgs at Vienna, which contain 170,000 inhabi- 
tants of all descriptions. That superb river, the 
Danube, borders the central town, and separates on 



198 REMINISCENCES OF 

one side the Faubourg of Leopoldstadt, from the' 
Prater, reckoned the finest promenade in Europe, 
There are many splendid palaces in the Fau- 
bourgs. Among the most conspicuous, are those 
f Prince Schwartzenberg, and Prince Adam 
Ausberg, &c. I had the honour of being pa- 
tronised by Prince Ausberg. His Highness 
employed a great number of workmen at his 
own expense in a manufactory for steel, and all 
kinds of hardware, which he had established. I 
have seen some things from his fabrique, which 
would not lose by comparison with the excellent 
workmanship of Mr. Bolton's manufactories at 
Birmingham. His Highness also was a great 
patron of musical performances. He had a beau- 
tiful theatre in his palace, at which I saw the Coun- 
tess Hatzfield perform inimitably well, in Gluck's 
serious opera of " Alceste." She was a charming 
woman, and full of talent. 

The Prater, as I said before, I consider the 
finest public promenade in Europe, far surpassing 
in variety our own beautiful Hyde Park. It is 
about four miles in length ; on each side of the 
road are fine chesnut trees, and a number of ave- 
nues and retired drives. These roads, on spring 
and summer evenings, are thronged with carriages. 
On all sides, as in our Hyde Park and Bushy 
Park, deer are seen quietly grazing, and gazing at 



MICHAEL KELLY. 199 

the passing crowds. At the end of the principal 
avenue is an excellent tavern, besides which, in 
many other parts of this enchanting spot, there 
are innumerable cabarets, frequented by people of 
all ranks in the evening, who immediately after 
dinner proceed thither to regale themselves with 
their favourite dish, fried chickens, cold ham, 
and sausages ; white beer, and Hoffner wines, by 
way of dessert ; and stay there until a late hour : 
dancing, music, and every description of mer- 
riment prevail ; and every evening, when not pro- 
fessionally engaged, I was sure to be in the midst 
of it. 

The Danube runs through part of this charming 
retreat. One evening Salieri proposed to me to 
accompany him to the Prater. At this time he 
was composing his opera of Tarrare, for the grand 
Opera House at Paris. At the back of the 
cabaret where we had been taking refreshments, 
near the banks of the Danube, we seated ourselves 
by the river side ; he took from his pocket a sketch 
of that subsequently popular air which he had that 
morning composed, Ah ! povero Calpigi. While , 
he was singing it to me with great earnestness 
and gesticulation, I cast my eyes towards the river, 
and spied a large wild boar crossing it, near the 
place where we were seated. I took to my heels, 
and the composer followed me, leaving " Povero 



200 REMINISCENCES OF 

Calp'igi? and (what was worse) a flagon of excel- 
lent Rhenish wine behind us, which was to me a 
greater bore than the bristly animal whose visit 
seemed intended for us. The story was food for 
much laughter, when we were out of danger. 
Salieri, indeed, would make a joke of any thing, 
for he was a very pleasant man, and much 
esteemed at Vienna ; and I considered myself in 
high luck to be noticed by him. 

Shortly after I had presented my letter to him, 
Marshal Lacy did me the honour to invite me to 
dine with him ; and amongst other great men who 
were his guests, I had the honour to meet Marshal 
Laudon. I looked upon it as a great event in 
a young man's life, to be seated at the same table 
with these two heroes ; rivals in the art of war, 
though attached friends. Marshal Lacy was a 
fine looking man ; free, convivial, and communi- 
cative ; he was about seventy years of age, of Irish 
extraction, but himself a Russian born. He 
had amassed a splendid fortune, and lived in a 
princely style, and was in high favour with the 
Emperor. 

Marshal Laudon was a very different kind of 
personage ; he appeared to be the soldier only, and 
spoke very little ; he seemed about the same age 
as Marshal Lacy, but they were very different. 
Marshal Laudon was of Scotch extraction, but a 



MICHAEL KELLY. 201 

i 

Livonian by birth. Such were his military talents, 
that he rose from the ranks in the Imperial Guard 
to the highest military command in the service ; 
and was, as all the world knows, a rival of the 
great Frederick; yet although they had often 
contended with varied success, either admitted 
the splendid talents of the other. As a proof 
of this, an anecdote was told me, by die cele- 
brated and witty Prince de Ligne, who indeed 
said he could vouch for its truth from personal 
knowledge. 

In an interval of peace between Austria and 
Prussia, Frederick the Great was at Silesia, at 
the same time with the Prince de Ligne, Marshal 
Brown, Marshal Laudon, and many Austrian 
officers. The king gave them a grand dinner, 
to which several Prussian officers were invited. 
Marshal Laudon was placed at table vis-a-vis 
to Frederick. The king rose, and said, " Mar- 
shal Laudon, I request you will quit your seat ; 
come hither and sit by me, for believe me (and 
with sincerity I speak it) I always prefer having 
you at my side to having you opposed to me."" 
The Prince de Ligne said, that Laudon was highly 
gratified by this elegant compliment from so great 
a warrior. 

The people of Vienna were in my time dancing 
mad ; as the Carnival approached, gaiety began 



202 REMINISCENCES OF 

to display itself on all sides ; and when it really 
came, nothing could exceed its brilliancy. The 
ridotto rooms, where the masquerades took place, 
were in the palace ; and spacious and commo- 
dious as they were, they were actually crammed 
with masqueraders. I never saw, or indeed heard 
of any suite of rooms, where elegance and con- 
venience were more considered ; for the propen- 
sity of the Vienna ladies for dancing and going 
to carnival masquerades w T as so determined, that 
nothing was permitted to interfere with their 
enjoyment of their favourite amusement nay, 
so notorious was it, that for the sake of ladies 
in the family way, who could not be persuaded 
to stay at home, there were apartments pre- 
pared, with every convenience for their accouche- 
ment, should they be unfortunately required. 
And I have been gravely told, and almost believe, 
that there have actually been instances of the utility 
of the arrangement. The ladies of Vienna are 
particularly celebrated for their grace and move- 
ments in waltzing, of which they never tire. For 
my own part, I thought waltzing from ten at night 
until seven in the morning, a continual whirligig ; 
most tiresome to the eye, and ear, to say nothing 
of any worse consequences. 

One evening, at one of these masquerades, a well- 
turned compliment was paid to the Emperor, by a 



KELLY. 

gentleman who went in the character of Diogenes 
with his lantern, in search of a man. In going 
round the room he suddenly met the Emperor. He 
immediately made a low obeisance to His Majesty, 
and, opening his lantern, extinguished the candle, 
saying, in a loud tone, " Ho trovato T uomo" (I have 
found the man) ; he then took his departure, and left 
the ball room. He was said to have been a courtier, 
but none of the courtiers would admit that he was. 

Another favourite amusement, going forward at 
this period of the year, is a course des traineaux, or 
procession of sledges. These sledges are richly 
ornamented, and carved with figures of all kinds of 
monsters, and inlaid with burnished gold, &c. A 
vast number of carrettas and carts, on the day pre- 
vious to this singular spectacle, gather snow, and 
distribute it along the principal streets of Vienna, in 
order that the sledges may be drawn with perfect 
security. The effect at night, by torch-light, is like 
enchantment. I have seen forty or fifty sledges 
drawn up, one behind the other ; in every sledge 
was a lady seated, covered with diamonds, in furs 
and pelisses ; behind each was a gentleman, as mag- 
nificently dressed, driving ; before every sledge, were 
two running footmen, having long poles, with knobs of 
silver at their ends. The Hungarian Prince Dietres- 
steen, the Grand Master of the Horse, was always 
the first to lead the traineaux. The immense 



REMINISCENCES OF 

velocity with which these things are drawn is per- 
fectly astonishing : they go on for three or four 
hours, and the procession, at its close, draws up 
before the Emperor's palace. The running footmen 
have costly liveries, and the horses are caparisoned 
with rich trappings, and large plumes of milk-white 
feathers ; and the spectacle, upon the whole, is very 
magnificent. 

I was quite charmed with my situation at Vienna ; 
nothing could exceed the gaiety of that delightful 
place. I was fortunate enough to get introduced to 
the best society ; my salary amply supplied my 
wants and wishes, and the public were kind and 
indulgent to me when I appeared on the stage. The 
kind countenance of Sir Robert Keith was not a 
little conducive in advancing me in the good opinion 
of the directors of the theatre. 

As the theatre was in the palace, the Emperor 
often honoured the rehearsals with his presence, 
and discoursed familiarly with the performers. He 
spoke Italian like a Tuscan, and was affable and 
condescending. He came almost every night to the 

C2 / 

opera, accompanied by his nephew, Francis, then a 
youth. He usually entered his box at the beginning 
of the piece, but if not there at the precise moment 
the curtain was to be drawn up ; he had given orders 
that he was never to be waited for. He was pas- 
sionately fond of music, and a most excellent and 



MICHAEL KELLY. 205 

accurate judge of it. His mode of living was quite 
methodical. He got up every morning, winter and 
summer, at five o'clock, wrote in his canceleria 
(study) until nine, then took a cup of chocolate, and 
transacted business with his ministers till one. He 
was very partial to the jeu de paume, and a good 
player. He had a fine racket-court, and when not 
in it, he usually walked or rode from one till three : 
punctually at a quarter after three, his dinner was 
served ; he almost always dined on one dish boiled 
bacon, which the people, from his partiality to it, 
called kayser fleische, i. e. the Emperor's meat ; some- 
times he had a dish of Hungarian beef bouilli, 
with horse radish and vinegar, but rarely, if ever, 
any other : his beverage at dinner was water ; and 
after dinner one goblet of Tokay wine. During 
dinner, he allowed only one servant to be in the 
room ; and was never longer at the meal than half 
an hour. 

At five, he usually walked in the corridor, near his, 
dining room, and whilst there, was accessible to the 
complaints of the meanest of his subjects : he heard 
them with complaisance, and was ever ready to 
redress their grievances. He generally wore either 
a green or white uniform faced with red ; nor did 
I ever see him that he was not continually putting 
chocolate drops, which he took from his waistcoat 
pocket, into his mouth. When he walked out, he 



00 REMINISCENCES OF 

took a number of golden sovereigns with him, and 
distributed them personally among the indigent. He 
was an enemy to pomp and parade, and avoided 
them as much as possible ; indeed, hardly any 
private gentleman requires so little attendance as he 
did. He had a seat for his servant behind Jiis 
carriage, and when he went abroad in it (which was 
hardly ever the case in the day time) he made him 
sit there. I was one day passing through one of 
the corridors of the palace, and came directly in 
contact with him ; he had his great coat hanging 
on his arm : he stopped me, and asked me in Italian, 
if I did not think it was very hot ; he told me that 
he felt the heat so oppressive that he had taken off 
his great coat, preferring to carry it on his arm. 

To the Princesses Lichtenstein,'Schwartzenberg, 
Lokowitz, and the Countess Thoun, he was parti- 
cularly partial, and often paid them evening visits, 
but always retired unattended to his carriage, which 
stood in the street; for he never allowed it to be 
driven into the court yards, where other carriages 
were waiting. His desire was, never to have any 
fuss made about him, or to give any trouble, which 
was all mighty amiable ; but as there is, and ought 
to be, in all civilized countries, a marked and deci- 
sive distinction between the Sovereign and the sub- 
ject, this did not appear particularly wise, even if it 
were not particularly affected ; and of all prides, that 






MICHAEL KELLY. 207 

g 

is the most contemptible, which, as Southey says, 
" apes humility." 

The present Emperor Francis, at the period of 
which I am writing, was as thin as possible. I do 
not think I ever saw so thin a youth ; his uncle was 
very rigid with him, and made him enter the army, 
mount guard, clean his horse, and go through the 
duties of a common soldier, until he progressively 
rose to the rank of an officer. 

The Emperor Joseph had a strange aversion from 
sitting for his portrait, although the greatest artists 
were anxious to have the honour of taking it. Pele- 
grini, the celebrated painter, solicited to be allowed 
the honour, but in vain. The Emperor said to 
him, " There can be no occasion for taking up your 
time and mine by my sitting to you ; if you are 
anxious to have a likeness of me, draw the portrait 
of an ill-looking man, with a wide mouth and large 
nose, and then you will have a fac simile." The 
reverse, however, was the fact ; for His Majesty had 
an intelligent countenance, a fine set of teeth, and 
when he laughed and shewed them, was rather 
handsome than otherwise. 

There was a wide difference between the habits- 
of Joseph the Second, and those of his prime mini- 
ster Prince Kaunitz, who was a most eccentric per- 
sonage, but reckoned nevertheless a great statesman. 
He was said to be very proud of having made up- 



208 REMINISCENCES OF 

the match between Louis XVI. and the unfortunate 
Marie Antoinette. For several months in the year 
he kept open house for all strangers, provided they 
had .been presented to him by their respective am- 
bassadors ; he kept a splendid table, and those who 
were by their introduction entitled to dine with him, 
had only to send their names to his porter before 
ten o'clock in the morning. For my own part, I 
have wondered how he could get any persons to be 
his guests, so extraordinary was his mode of re- 
ceiving them. He rose very late in the day, and 
made a point before dinner of taking a ride in his 
riding-house, which he never commenced until the 
whole of his company were assembled for dinner : 
after having deliberately ridden as long as he thought 
fit, he proceeded, without making any excuse, to 
make his toilette. 

Though a very old man, he was very fond of 
adorning his person, and remarkably particular in 
having his hair well dressed, and bien poudre. In 
order to accomplish this object, he had four valets 
with powder puffs, puffing away at him until his 
hair was powdered to his satisfaction, while he 
walked about his dressing-room in a mask. An- 
other of his eccentricities was, that at all times,- 
when he had at his table ambassadors, foreigners* 
and ladies of the first distinction, he would, imme- 
diately after dinner, have all the apparatus for 






MICHAEL KELLY, 209 

cleaning his teeth put down upon the table ; 
literally tooth brushes, basons, &c. ; and:, with- 
out the least excuse to his company, would go 
through the whole process of cleaning his teeth ; a 
ceremony which lasted for many minutes. It was 
justly said of him, that he first made his guests sick 
by making them wait so long for their dinner, and 
that after they had dined, he made them sick again 
by this filthy custom. But in every thing else he 
was a strict observer of etiquette, and piqued himself 
on it; thinking, with Lord Chesterfield, that eti- 
quette was the characteristic excellence of good 
society. 

The Italian operas were performed at Vienna 
only three times a week, the other four nights 
(including Sundays), were appropriated to German 
plays, which I made a point of attending, as 
there were two large boxes always kept for the 
Italian company, on one side of the theatre ; and 
on the other, two for the German company. I have 
with delight seen there the great actor Schroeder, 
who was called the Garrick of Germany. His Sir 
Peter Teazle was an excellent performance, and 
his Lord Ogleby not inferior to King's ; and, in my 
opinion, those two were the best representatives of 
the old eccentric nobleman I ever saw. Schroeder 
was also very great in King Lear. The scene 
where he asks after his fool was one of the most 



REMINISCENCES OF 

exquisite pieces of acting I ever beheld ; and, indeed* 
he was very great in most of Shakspeare's plays 
which had been translated into German. 

His performance of Sir Benjamin Dove, in Cum- 
berland's play of " The Brothers,"fwas also an exqui- 
site piece of acting ; as was the Captain Ironsides 
of Brockman, who was an excellent comedian, 
as well as tragedian. When Brockman went, by 
permission of the Emperor, to act for a limited 
period at Berlin, his performance of Hamlet was 
reckoned by the Prussians such a masterpiece, that 
there was a medallion struck of him in that cha- 
racter. He gave me one of them, which,,! am 
sorry to say, I lost. All the cities in Germany 
wished to have this great performer, but he would 
not leave Vienna, though tempted by offers of 
great emolument, and would only occasionally go 
to Hamburgh ; for, although that theatre could not 
pay half so well as many others, he preferred 
it beyond all the rest; and the reason which he 
gave me for this predilection was, that in Ham- 
burgh he could get fresher herrings (in which he 
delighted) than in any other place. 

He was a very studious man, but absent and 
indolent ; indeed, proverbially so. To one trait of 
his indolence, I was myself a witness. 

Shakspeare's Othello was brought out for the 
first time on a Saturday night; he personated 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

the Moor, which part he did not wish to act 7 
though, he said, he was delighted with it, because 
the trouble of blacking his face was to him accu- 
mulated horror ; however, the Emperor issued his 
commands, and there was no appeal ; he, of course, 
acted it, and so finely, that His Majesty commanded 
it to be repeated on the Sunday, announcing that 
he would again honour die performance with his 
presence. I had been engaged previously to dine 
with Brockman, on that day, with some other 
friends. We went accordingly, and to our great 
surprise, Brockman presided at table, with his 
face as black as it had been the night before. 
He excused his strange appearance by telling us 
that he had gone through so much fatigue and 
rouble in blacking his face for the Saturday's 
performance, that he would not wash it off, as, 
if he had done so, he should have had to undergo 
the same painful process on the following evening,, 
rather than which, he had sat up all the preceding 
night in an arm-chair. This curious instance of 
innate laziness produced much laughter and sur- 
prise amongst us. 

When my old and valued friend Charles Kemble 

. 
went to Vienna, I gave him , letter of introduction 

Brockman, and I am sure he will corroborate my 
ncomia of his acting. Schroeder, who was an ex- 
cellent dramatic writer, translated " The Constant 



i 
t 



REMINISCENCES OF 

Couple" into German, and acted Alderman Smuggler 
himself, and Brockman played Sir Harry Wildair : 
this comedy had a great run. Schroeder told 
me, that he went to London for the purpose of 
seeing the School for Scandal, previously to 
translating it. He understood English perfectly, 
and spoke it with fluency. I was told by those 
whose judgment I could depend on, that his trans- 
lations into German were very good. I was not 
sufficiently acquainted with the language to be a 
judge of their literary merits, but still I understood 
German quite enough to be delighted with the 
representations. 

It was rather singular that Schroeder, while 
in England, never made himself known to any 
theatrical person. During the time he was in 
London, he went (as he told me) every night 
the School for Scandal was performed, and placed 
himself in the middle of the pit. He gave the 
most unqualified praise to the English actors, 
as being true to nature. He regretted not having 
had the good fortune to see Garrick ; but he had a 
very fine picture of him, which he shewed me : it 
was the first I had ever seen of him, and I had not 
the good fortune to see the original ; but the por- 
trait certainly bore a great resemblance to the 
composer Salieri. 

Schroeder produced a dramatic piece, of which I 



MICHAEL KELLY. 13 

witnessed the first representation, called " The Free- 
masons." Great curiosity was excited by the title : 
there were, at that time, a number of Lodges in 
Vienna, and parties were formed to condemn the 
piece, should any thing transpire in the repre- 
sentation to ridicule the masonic ceremonies ; but 
there was nothing in the piece which was not 
perfectly allowable and respectful to the craft 
The most rigid mason could not find any thing 
to censure, for every thing was complimentary to 
their useful and respected society. The conse- 
quence was, the piece was received with raptu- 
rous applause, and represented for a number of 
nights. 

Cumberland's West Indian was a favourite, and 
always received great applause ; Schroeder was the 
representative of Major (T^laherty. I was well 
acquainted with the play from my childhood. 
In Dublin, many times and oft I had seen Ryder 
in the Major, Mrs. Sparkes in Charlotte Rusport, 
and the Prince of all Belcours Lewis. I con- 
sidered Lewis, in his line, a perfect actor; but, 
candidly speaking, I thought his best days were 
past before my friend, Frederick Reynolds, made 
him a dramatist. The Vienna Belcour was Lange, 
esteemed the most perfect representative of the 
lover and gentleman on the German stage. He 
was a fine performer, and, like my friend and 






REMINISCENCES OF 

countryman, Pope, considered an excellent mi- 
niature painter, as well as an ornament to the 
stage. He spoke English very well, and had 
the reputation of being a good scholar. His 
society was much courted. 

How a Vienna audience could relish a national 
Irish character like OTlaherty, was to me a matter 
of great surprise, as I never heard, but once, that 
the Irish brogue was translatable ; to be sure, that 
was from pretty good authority. I happened one 
morning to meet the Right Honourable John 
Philpot Curran in Pall Mall, and, in the course of 
conversation, he told me that he had been the night 
before to Drury Lane, to see the West Indian. 
*' Well," said I, " did you not think that my friend 
Jack Johnstone was an inimitable Major CTFla- 
herty ?" " Why, indeed," said he, " I thought it 
an able representation of the Irish gentleman, but 
not of the Irish brogue our friend Jack Johnstone 
does not give us the brogue, Sir, he translates it." 

I told Mr. Curran that I was sorry to differ 
in opinion with such an excellent judge as his 
Honour, but that, through the earlier part of my 
life in Italy, Sicily, and Germany, I had associated 
with a number of Irish officers, and it appeared to 
me that nothing could be more like their manner 
than my friend's performance ; indeed, I thought 
him unique, and suspected, that had his brogue 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

been broader, it might have been unintelligible to an 
English audience. 

Schroeder's representation of this part appeared, 
by the applause he received, and the laughter he 
produced, to delight his auditors. The Emperor 
Joseph was partial to his performance of it. An- 
other favourite part of Schroeder's was Gradus, in 
Mrs. Cowley's " Who's the Dupe ?" That cele- 
brated, and most excellent low comedian, Widman, 
the great pet of the good people of Vienna, acted 
Old Doiley, and convulsed the house with laughter. 
I knew him well ; he was a singular character, and, 
like the celebrated Italian Harlequin at Paris, 
a prey to hypochondriacal affection, always fancying, 
from one hour to another, he should breathe his 
last) and continually taking medicine to avert the 
impending calamity. In the characters of " Cor- 
bachio," in the " Comedy of the Fox," and the 
" Tartuffe" of Moliere, he was super-excellent. 
He was one of the committee of five actors who 
were directors of the drama; the other four were 
Brockman, Lange, and the two brothers Stephani, 
both excellent comedians in their line. The elder 
Stephani was reckoned a man of considerable 
literary talent. It was his province to read all 
the new pieces that were presented, and send his 
opinion of their merits to Prince Rosenberg, the 
Grand Chamberlain. 



16 REMINISCENCES OF 

There was a law amongst the committee of five 
actors, that one of them, in full dress, hag, 
and sword, &c. should be in attendance during 
the performance every evening, to announce the 
entertainments of the following night, and make 
any appeal to the audience which might be neces- 
sary, always being one of the actors not otherwise 
concerned in the business of the evening. The 
leading female of the company was Madame Sacqui, 
considered as a rival in talent to the celebrated 
Clairon, so much praised by Garrick. Madame 
Sacqui was a fine woman, but I should think turned 
of- forty when I saw her ; she had a sweet coun- 
tenance, and the rays of beauty still lingered about 
her. I have seen her with great delight in the 
" Widow of Malabar." 

There was a species of drama at that time much 
in vogue at Vienna, and indeed all over Germany? 
called a Monologue, and which has since been 
occasionally introduced upon the English stage. 
The person who performs is accompanied between 
the different speeches by music, made to accord 
with the different passages of the recitation. Ma- 
dame Sacqui performed ." Medea, 1 ' in " Jason 
-and Medea. 1 '' Her representation of the part was 
trulv terrific, and the music, the composition of the 
celebrated Bendar, sublime. Another Monologue, 
entitled " Ariadne and Theseus," was divinely 



MICHAEL KELLY. 217 

acted by Mademoiselle Jacquet, the sister of the 
lovely Ademberger, of whom it was said, that she 
united the elegance of the Graces with the talents 
of the Muses; nothing could be more, affecting 
than her grief and despair when abandoned by 
Theseus. I never missed her representation 
of Ariadne, and each time I saw it, I fancied I 
discovered new beauties in it : the music of the 
piece, composed by Graum, the favourite composer 
of the King of Prussia, was very beautiful and 
appropriate. 

Melpomene might well be proud of her two great 
followers, as might Thalia of the incomparable and 
matchless Madame Ademberger, wife of a tenor 
singer who performed at the Opera House in 
London. She was called Nature's darling child. 
I never then had seen Mrs. Jordan ; but Stephen 
Storace, who had just come to Vienna from London, 
had repeatedly seen her, and told me that Madame 
Ademberger was her very prototype in figure, voice, 
action, and genius. Her performance of Peggy, in 
the " Country Girl," was a treat ; and when I came 
to England, and saw Mrs. Jordan at Drury Lane 
in the same character, had I not been convinced 
that they never could have seen each other, I 
should have sworn that one of them copied the 
other, so great was their resemblance. Brockman's 
acting, in " Moody," was a masterpiece, and 

VOL. I. L 



218 EEMIXISCEKCES OF 

strange to say, (for they neither could have seen 
each other), very much in the style of King's 
representation of that part. 

In the midst of my devotion to tragedy and 
comedy, I did not forget what I owed to music ; 
and what more favourable opportunity could offer 
for evincing my devotion to the science of harmony 
than that which presented itself, of visiting the 
immortal Haydn? He was living at Eisenstadt, 
the palace of Prince Esterhazy, in whose service he 
was, and thither I determined to go and pay my 
respects to him ; accordingly, accompanied by a 
friend of mine of the name of Brida, a young 
Tyrolese merchant, I set off post to fulfil my 
intentions. 

I had the pleasure of spending three days with 
him, and received from him great hospitality and 
kindness. The Prince Esterhazy lived in regal 
splendour ; his revenues are enormous, and Kis 
Highness spent his great fortune with munificence 
and noble liberality. He was particularly fond of 
music ; his band was formed of great professors; 
Haydn was his maitre de chapelle. There was 
at Eisenstadt, merely for the amusement of the 
Prince, his family, suite, and vassals, an Italian 
Opera, a German and a French theatre, and the 
finest Fantoccini in Europe. 

At this delightful place Haydn composed the 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

greatest part of his immortal works. I saw and 
admired the different artists employed by the 
Prince, who unanimously gave His Highness an 
enviable character for generosity and exalted good- 
ness. His vassals absolutely adored him. 

The country about Eisenstadt is delightfully 
picturesque, abounding in wood and water, and all 
kinds of game. The Prince had the goodness 
to desire Haydn to take one of his carriages, that 
we might drive about and see all the beauties of 
this terrestrial paradise, for such I thought it. His 
Highness was very partial to shooting, hunting, and 
fishing. 

We took our departure on the evening of the 
third day, delighted and flattered with the gracious 
kindness we had received, and with light hearts 
arrived at Vienna. 

Upon my return, my / servant informed me that 
a lady and gentleman had called upon me, who 
said they came from England, and requested to see 
me at their hotel. I called the next morning, 
and saw the gentleman, who said his name was 
Botterelli, that he was the Italian poet of the 
King's Theatre in the Haymarket, and that his 
wife was an English woman, and a principal singer 
at Vauxhall, Ranelagh, the Pantheon, &c. Her 
object in visiting Vienna was to give a concert, to 
be heard by the Emperor ; and if she gave that 



220 REMINISCENCES OF 

satisfaction, (which she had no doubt she would), 
to accept of an engagement at the Royal Theatre ; 
and he added, that she had letters for the first 
nobility in Vienna, 

The lady came into the room ; she was a very 
fine woman, and seemed sinking under the con- 
scious load of her own attractions. She really had 
powerful letters of recommendation. Prince Charles 
Lichtenstein granted her his protection ; and there 
was such interest made for her, that the Emperor 
himself signified his Royal intention of honouring 
her concert with his presence. Every thing was 
done for her ; the orchestra and singers were en- 
gaged ; the concert began to a crowded house, 
but, I must premise, we had no rehearsal. 

At the end of the first act, the beauteous Syren, 
led into the orchestra by her caro sposo, placed her- 
self just under the Emperor's box, the orchestra 
being on the stage. She requested me to accom- 
pany her song on the piano-forte. I of course con- 
sented. Her air and manner spoke " dignity and 
love." The audience sat in mute and breathless 
expectation. The doubt was, whether she would 
melt into their ears in a fine cantabile, or burst upon 
them with a brilliant bravura. I struck the chords 
of the symphony silence reigned when, to the 
dismay and astonishment of the brilliant audience, 
she bawled out, without feeling or remorse, voice 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

or time, or indeed one note in tune, the hunting 
song of " Tally ho !" in all its pure originality. 
She continued shrieking out Tally ho ! tally ho ! 
in a manner and tone so loud and dissonant, that 
they were enough to blow off the roof of the 
house. The audience jumped up terrified; some 
shrieked with alarm, some hissed, others hooted, 
and many joined in the unknown yell, in order to 
propitiate her. The Emperor called me to him, 
and asked me in Italian (what tally ho ! meant?) 
I replied, I did not know ; and literally, at that time, 
I did not. 

His Majesty, the Emperor, finding that even /, 
a native of Great Britain, either could not, or 
would not, explain the purport of the mysterious 
words, retired with great indignation from the 
theatre ; and the major part of the audience, con- 
vinced by His Majesty^ sudden retreat that they 
contained some horrible meaning, followed the 
Royal example. The ladies hid their faces with 
their fans, and mothers were heard in the lobbies 
cautioning their daughters on the way out, never 
to repeat the dreadful expression of " tally ho," 
nor venture to ask any of their friends for a trans- 
lation of it. 

The next day, when I saw the husband of 
" tally ho," he abused the taste of the people of 
Vienna, and said that the song, which they did not 



222 REMINISCENCES OF 

know how to appreciate, had been sung by the 
celebrated Mrs. Wrighton at Vauxhall, and was a 
great favourite all over England. Thus, however, 
ended the exhibition of Eno-lish taste : and Sig;nora 

o o 

Tally ho ! with her Italian poet, went hutning 
elsewhere, and never returned to Vienna, at least 
during my residence. 

I went one evening to a concert of the celebrated 
Kozeluch's, a great composer for the piano-forte, 
as well as a fine performer on that instrument. 
I saw there the composers Vanhall and Baron 
Dittersdorf ; and, what was to me one of the greatest 
gratifications of my musical life, was there intro- 
duced to that prodigy of genius Mozart. He 
favoured the company by performing fantasias and 
capriccios on the piano-forte. His feeling, the 
rapidity of his fingers, the great execution and 
strength of his left hand particularly, and the ap- 
parent inspiration of his modulations, astounded 
me. After this splendid performance we sat down 
to supper, and I had the pleasure to be placed at 
table between him and his wife, Madame Constance 
Weber, a German lady, of whom he was passionately 
fond, and by whom he had three children. He 
conversed with me a good deal about Thomas 
Linley, the first Mrs. Sheridan's brother, with whom 
he was intimate at Florence, and spoke of him with 
great affection. He said that Linley was a true 




MICHAEL KELLY. 



genius ; and he felt that, had he lived, he would 
have been one of the greatest ornaments of the 
musical world. After supper the young branches 
of our host had a dance, and Mozart joined them. 
Madame Mozart told me, that great as his genius 
was, he was an enthusiast in dancing, and often 
said that his taste lay in that art, rather than in 
music. 

He was a remarkably small man, very thin and 

pale, with a profusion of fine fair hair, of which 

he was rather vain. He gave me a cordial invi- 

tation to his house, of which I availed myself, and 

passed a great part of my time there. He always 

received me with kindness and hospitality. He 

was remarkably fond of punch, of which beverage 

I have seen him take copious draughts. He was 

also fond of billiards, and had an excellent billiard 

table in his house. Many and many a game have 

I played with him, but always came off second 

best. He gave Sunday concerts, at which I never 

was missing. He was kind-hearted, and always 

ready to oblige ; but so very particular, when he 

played, that if the slightest noise were made, he 

instantly left off. He one day made me sit down 

to the piano, and gave credit to my first master, 

who had taught me to place my hand well on the 

instrument. He conferred on me what I considered 

a high compliment. I had composed a little melody 



REMINISCENCES. OF 

to MetastaskTs canzonetta, " Grazie agl' inganni 
tuoi," which was a great favourite wherever I sang 
it. It was very simple, but had the good fortune 
to please Mozart. He took it and composed vari- 
ations upon it, which were truly beautiful ; and had 
the further kindness and condescension to play 
them wherever he had an opportunity. Thinking 
that the air thus rendered remarkable might be ac- 
ceptable to some of my musical readers, I have 
subjoined it. 

Encouraged by his flattering approbation, I 
attempted several little airs, which I shewed him, 
and which he kindly approved of; so much indeed, 
that I determined to devote myself to the study of 
counterpoint, and consulted with him, by whom I 
ought to be instructed. He said, " My good lad, 
you ask my advice, and I will give it you candidly ; 
had you studied composition when you were at 
Naples, and when your mind was not devoted to 
other pursuits, you would perhaps have done wisely; 
but now that your profession of the stage must, and 
ought, to occupy all your attention, it would be an 
unwise measure to enter into a dry study. You 
may take my word for it, Nature has made you a 
melodist, and you would only disturb and perplex 
yourself. Reflect, ' a little knowledge is a danger- 
ous thing; 1 should there be errors in what you 
write, you will find hundreds of musicians, in all 



',/////,.>,// \'/fi.\-.\:t /// 









<;IL MIL . K.7. /. \ '(,: /. i : i / ri '<>/. 





T* 



Grazie agl' Jngan-ni tuoi al fin-i-es-piro oh Ni-c al 



Grazie agl Ing^n-ni tuoi al fm-res-piro 

&Z 





NUT al 



IP* 








1 







fill km in - fe li - ce eb-ber-^i<la|ae - ta 

I - * l I * ( 



['tuv^amii Uioi al 







/ tin ill ii i ni ie H -ce eb-lxr glvdei pie - ta 



i tuoi al 



li -e rfo-br 



4ei pie ta gra-zie 





< noil t of Fen <lj) il vc !<> 



< iion-t' of feu dail vie - ro uel 



noii t' of v*\\ da il ve-ro 




ve -ro nel 



I 





Ei 






i_ F ' 




r 








to ' 



I pi r r n FT Er 



tuo le^-giadro as pet - to or St-o pi-<> alcun di-- fet - to 




.o leg- j;ia<hx) as - pet to or S<-<> pro ;d-cun di fet to die 







^- 
mi pa rea bel ta 








mi pa rea bel ta 




O nd 

~. 

(\K s> To Sou Sincere 
^Viicoj'ini s'iulri Bella 
Ma non mi sembri quella 
Che paragon 11011 ha' 
E noii ti offeiulinl veix> 
Nel tno Le^'iadro aspetto 
Or Seopro alc-un diletto 
Che mi Parea Bella 

Pa Capo 



( iraxk> 



lugauni tno 




lo Lascio un incost;uite 
"filpeixti im Cor Sineero 
Nt>n so (liNoi primiero 
Chi sabbia a Consolar. 
Un si fido aniante 
Non h-overa Tin Nice 
Clu- mi altra hit;-aiiiiatrice 
E tacile a Tixn-av 

Da C;ijKt 

tuoi 



.'.. ir..... 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

parts of the world, capable of correcting them ; 
therefore do not disturb your natural gift." 

" Melody is the essence of music," continued he ; 
" / compare a good melodist to a fine racer, and 
counterpointists to hack post-horses; therefore be 
advised, let well alone, and remember the old 
Italian proverb 4 Chi sa piu, meno sa Who 
knows most, knows least." The opinion of this 
great man made on me a lasting impression. 

My friend Attwood (a worthy man, and an orna- 
ment to the musical world) was Mozart's favourite 
scholar, and it gives me great pleasure to record 
what Mozart said to me about him ; his words 
were, " Attwood is a young man for whom I have 
a sincere affection and esteem ; he conducts himself 
with great propriety, and I feel much pleasure in 
telling you, that he partakes more of my style than 
any scholar I ever had ; and I predict, that he will 
prove a sound musician." Mozart was very liberal 
in giving praise to those who deserved it ; but felt 
a thorough contempt for insolent mediocrity. He 
was a member of the Philharmonic Society of 
Bologna and Verona ; and when at Rome, the Pope 
conferred on him the Cross and Brevet of Knight 
of Le Spiron d'Ora. 

At the time of which I am speaking, music was 
in the highest state of perfection at Vienna ; for, 
independent of the great talents that were stationary, 

L ? 



225 REMINISCENCES OF 

there was a number of the most celebrated artists 
passing from Italy to Poland, Prussia, and Russia, 
most of whom gave concerts at Vienna. The 
Emperor usually attended them, and amply re- 
warded the performers. The celebrated Marches^ 
came from Venice to Vienna, on his road to Peters- 
burg, where he was engaged for the Italian opera. 
He gave a concert, and was honoured by the Em- 
peror's presence, and a brilliant audience ; he was a 
great singer, and in the prime of his abilities. 
During his stay at Vienna, he was on a visit to the 
Venetian Ambassador, who, in compliment to him, 
gave a grand dinner to the Italian performers, 
amongst whom, I had the honour of being invited ; 
the banquet was splendid. His Excellency was a 
great gourmand, and was a good deal ridiculed for 
his attention to the gastronomic art ; he gave his 
cook five hundred zecchinos per annum, but he was 
rich, and had a right to please himself. For my 
own part, though not much of an epicure, I think 
a good cook an essential personage in an establish- 
ment, and in the end, an economical one ; and there 
is no place, generally speaking, where the art of 
cookery is better understood than at Vienna. 

During my stay, I had the pleasure of hearing 
two of the first performers on the violin, perhaps in 
the world ; both gave concerts, and their performance 
was truly exquisite, although in different styles. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 227 

The first was Giornovick, who was on his way from 
liussia to Paris, and had been many years first con- 
certo player at the court of Petersburg. He was a 
man of a certain age, but in the full vigour of 
talent ; his tone was very powerful, his execution 
most rapid, and his taste above all alluring. No 
performer, in ray remembrance, played such pleasing 
music. He generally closed his concertos with a 
rondo, the subject of which was some popular Rus- 
sian air, to which he composed variations with 
enchanting taste; his performance reminded me 
strongly of the celebrated La Motte, whom I had 
often heard at the Rotunda in Dublin. 

Janewitz, the other, was a very young man, in the 
service of the King of Poland ; he also touched the 
instrument with thrilling effect, and was an excellent 
leader of an orchestra. His concertos always finished 
with some pretty Polonaise air ; his variations also 
were truly beautiful. 

But the Apollo, the Orpheus of the age, was the 
redoubted and renowned Baron Bach, who came to 
Vienna to be heard by the Emperor. He (in his own 
conceit) surpassed Tartini, Nardini, &c. &c. This 
fanatico per la musica had just arrived from Peters- 
burg, where he went to make his extraordinary talents 
known to the Royal Family and Court. Now, I have 
often heard this man play, and I positively declare, 
that his performance was as bad as any blind fiddler's 



228 REMINISCENCES OF 

at a wake in a country town in Ireland ; but he was 
a man of immense fortune, and kept open house. In 
every city which he passed through, he gave grand 
dinners, to which all the musical professors were 
invited ; at Vienna, myself among the rest. One 
day, having a mind to put his vanity to the test, I 
told him that he reminded me of the elder Cramer. 
He seemed rather disappointed than pleased with 
my praise he acknowledged Cramer had some 
merit, that he had played with him out of the same 
book at Manheim, when Cramer was first voilin at 
that Court ; but that the Elector said that his tone 
was far beyond Cramer's, for Cramer was tame and 
slothful, and lie was all fire and spirit ; and that, to 
make a comparison between them, would be to com- 
pare a dove to a game cock. In my life, I never 
knew any man who snuffed up the air of praise like 
this discordant idiot. 

After he had been heard by the Emperor (who 
laughed heartily at him) he set off for London, in 
order that the King of England might have an 
opportunity of hearing his dulcet strains. When 
he had taken his departure, another violin player 
arrived from Russia, a Doctor Fisher, a most 
eccentric man, possessing some merit in his pro- 
fession, but a bit of a quack, and an inordinate 
prattler ; he related strange things of himself, and 
was particularly tenacious of his veracity. The 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

harmonious Doctor, however, (who, by the bye, was 
a very ugly Christian) kid siege to poor Nancy 
Storace ; and by dint of perseverance with her, and 
drinking tea with her mother, prevailed upon her 
to take him for better for worse, which she did in 
despite of the advice of' all her friends; she had 
cause, however, in a short time to repent of her 
bargain, for instead of harmony, there was nothing 
but discord between them ; and it was said he had a 
very striking way of enforcing his opinion, of which 
a friend of tier's informed the Emperor, who inti- 
mated to him, that it would be fit for him to try a 
change of air, and so the Doctor was banished from 
Vienna. 

Storace was the second wife of the discordant 
Doctor, His first wife was one of the daughters 
of Mr. Powell, the proprietor of Covent Garden 
Theatre. The Doctor had a sixteenth share of the 
Covent Garden Theatre property, in right of his 
wife ; but was such an inordinate coxcomb, that the 
other proprietors had a great contempt for him and 
his opinion. I have heard Moody say, that he came 
one evening into the green room when he was pre- 
sent, and abused an actress for having torn her 
petticoat ; and when questioned by her as to his 
right to do so, he replied, with great pomposity, 1 
44 All the right in the world, Madam, I have to 
look after my property ; for know, Madam, the 



230 UEMINISCENCES OF 

sixteenth part of the petticoat which you have de- 
stroyed belongs to me, and is mine, to all intents 
and purposes. 1 ' Ayhen his wife died, he parted with 
his share, to the great joy of the other partners in 
the concern *. 

The same year, (1781',) the city of Vienna was 
honoured with the presence of His Iloyal Highness 
the Duke of York, then Bishop of Osnaburgh. On 
his entry into the city, he was received by the 
populace with acclamations, and welcomed by bril- 
liant fetes and rejoicings. The condescension and 
kindness for which His Royal Highness ever has 
been distinguished, thus early gained him the 
hearts of all ranks of society : he was in his one 
and twentieth year, and allowed to be a model of 
manly beauty. I have seen him often walking in 

* The first Mrs. Fisher had two sisters ; the one married, first, 
Mr. Warren, and secondly, Mr. Martindale, who kept one of 
the club houses in St. James's Street, who aiso left her a widow ; 
upon her death she bequeathed her share of Covent Garden 
Theatre to Francis Const, Esq. the worthy and excellent chair- 
man of the Middlesex and Westminster Sessions. The other 
married Mr. White, one of the clerks of the House of Commons, 
in right of whose daughters, (to whom they are married,) Mr. 
\Villett, and Captain Forbes of the navy, now hold each similar 
shares of Covent Garden Theatre to that which the veracious 
Doctor Fisher possessed by a similar tenure at the time to which 
I have just aliuded ; and have, of course, if they chose to exercise 
it, a similar right to the sixteenth part of every actress's petticoat 
at the present moment. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 231 

the streets of Vienna, dressed in the Windsor uni- 
form, with his hair platted behind, attended by OHL 
or two of his aides-de-camp, visiting the different 
shops, and conversing with the most amiable fami- 
liarity with the concourse of people that flocked 
around him. The Emperor paid him great and 
marked attention. 

His Royal Highnesses first visit to the theatre 
attracted a crowded and brilliant assemblage. The 
Emperor, accompanied by his brother Maximilian, 
the Archbishop of Cologne, was present. A new 
opera, composed by Stephen Storace, was produced 
on the occasion : Signora StOrace and myself had 
the two principal parts in it. In the middle of the 
iirst act, Storace all at once lost her voice, and could 
not utter a sound during the whole of the per- 
formance ; this naturally threw a damp over the 
audience, as well as the performers. The loss of the 
iirst female singer, who was a great and deserved 
favourite, was to the composer, her brother, a severe 
blow. I never shall forget her despair and disap- 
pointment, but she was not then prepared for the 
extent of her misfortune, for she did not recover 
her voice sufficiently to appear on the stage for five 
months. 

As a proof of the retentive memory of His Royal 
Highness, the circumstances of which I speak are 
now one and forty years old ; and yet, His Royal 



REMINISCENCES OF 

Highness recollected, and repeated them to a friend 
of mine very recently. To have lived so long in 
his Royal remembrance, is to me high honour and 
gratification. 

During the continuance of Storace's illness, three 
operas were produced, in which Sign or a Cortellini, 
Madame Bernasconi, and Signora Laschi per- 
formed. The last of these operas was composed 
by Signpr Rigini, and written by the poet of the 
theatre, the Abbe da Ponte, by birth a Venetian- 
It was said, that originally he was a Jew, turned 
Christian, dubbed him self an Abbe, and became 
a great dramatic writer. In his opera, there was 
a character of an amorous eccentric poet, which 
was allotted to me ; at the time, I was esteemed a 
good mimic, and particularly happy in imitating 
the walk, countenance, and attitudes of those whom 
I wished to resemble. My friend, the poet, had a 
remarkably awkward gait, a habit of throwing 
himself (as he thought) into a graceful attitude, 
by putting his stick behind his back, and leaning 
on it ; he had also a very peculiar, rather dan- 
dyish, way of dressing; for, in sooth, the Abbe 
stood mighty well with himself, and had the cha- 
racter of a consummate coxcomb; he had also a 
strong lisp and broad Venetian dialect. 

The first night of the performance, he was seated in 
the boxes, more conspicuously than was absolutely 



MICHAEL KELLY. 233 

necessary, considering he was the author of the piece 
to be performed. As usual, on the first night of a 
new opera, the Emperor was present, and a numerous 
auditory. When I made my entree as the amorous 
poet, dressed exactly like the Abbe in the boxes, 
imitating his walk, leaning on my stick, and aping 
his gestures and his lisp, there was a universal roar 
of laughter and applause ; and after a buzz round the 
house, the eyes of the whole audience were turned 
to the place where he was seated. The Emperor 
enjoyed the joke, laughed heartily, and applauded 
frequently during the performance ; the Abbe was 
not at all affronted, but took my imitation of him 
in good part, and ever after we were on the best 
'terms. The opera was successful, had a run of 
many nights, and I established the reputation of a 
good mimic. 

Storace had an opera put into rehearsal, the 
subject his own choice, Shakspeare's Comedy of 
Errors*. It was made operatical, and adapted for 
the Italian, by Da Ponte, with great ingenuity. 
He retained all the main incidents and characters 
of our immortal bard ; it became the rage, and 
well it might, for the music of Storace was beyond 

* I often mentioned (after I came to England) to Mr. 
Sheridan, how much I thought introducing Storace's music 
into the Comedy of Errors would do for Drury Lane : he 
approved of it, and said he would give directions to have it 



REMINISCENCES OF 

description beautiful. I performed Antiphohis of 
Ephesus, and a Signor Calvasi, Antipholus of 
Syracuse, we were both of the same height, and 
strove to render our persons as like each other as 
we could. 

About the time of which I am now speaking, 
the celebrated poet, L'Abbate Casti, came from 
Italy to Vienna, on a visit to Prince Rosenberg. 
He was esteemed by the literati, the severest 
satirist since the days of Aretin. The Animcdi 
Parhinti, for its wit and satire, will always be 
remembered. Just at the same period, the cele- 
brated Paesiello arrived at Vienna, on his way 
to Naples, from Petersburg, where he had been 

done, but he never did. It is singular, that more than thirty- 
six years after I had suggested the idea, the proprietors of 
Covent Garden should bring the play forward as an opera ; 
yet, had it been produced at Drury Lane at the time I 
mentioned it, my friend, Prince Hoare, would not have had 
in his excellent afterpiece, called " No Song no Supper," 
the beautiful sestetto, " Hope a distant joy disclosing ;" for that 
piece of music, and the trio, " Knocking at this time of day," 
were both in the Equivoci ; or, Italian Comedy of Errors, The 
music used, where Antipholus seeks admittance into his house, 
and his wife calls the guard, was that fine chorus in the 
Pirates, " Hark the guard is coining," and was certainly one 
of the most effective pieces of music ever heard. Both the 
songs sung by me in the Pirates, at Drury Lane, I had sung at 
Vienna , in the same opera of the Equivoci : Storace certainly 
enriched his English pieces, but I lamented to see his beau- 
tit ul Italian opera dismantled. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 235 

some years, and amassed very great wealth. I 
had the pleasure of seeing him introduced to 
Mozart ; it was gratifying to witness the satisfaction 
which they appeared to feel by becoming acquainted ; 
the esteem which they had for each other was well 
known. The meeting took place at Mozart's house ; 
I dined with them, and often afterwards enjoyed 
their society together. 

The Emperor hearing that Cast! and Paesiello 
were in Vienna, wished to have them presented to 
him on the first levee day ; they were accordingly 
introduced to His Majesty by the Great Cham- 
berlain. The compositions of Paesiello were always 
in high favour with the Emperor. Kis Majesty 
said to them, with his usual affability, " I think I 
may say, I have now before me two of the greatest 
geniuses alive ; and it would be most gratifying to 
me, to have an opera, the joint production of both, 
performed at my theatre ;" they of course obeyed 
the flattering command, and the greatest expec- 
tations were excited by the union of such talents. 

One day, during the stay of Paesiello, I heard 
him relate an anecdote illustrative of the kindness 
of the Empress Catherine of Russia towards him. 
She was his scholar; and while he was accompa- 
nying her one bitter cold morning, he shuddered 
with the cold. Her Majesty perceiving it, took off* 
a beautiful cloak which she had on, ornamented 



236 REMINISCENCES OF 

with clasps of brilliants of great value, and threw 
it over his shoulders. Another mark of esteem for 
him, she evinced by her reply to Marshal Belo- 
selsky. The Marshal, agitated, it is believed, by 
the " green-eyed monster, 311 forgot himself so far 
as to give Paesiello a blow ; Paesiello, who was a 
powerful athletic man, gave him a sound drubbing. 
In return, the Marshal laid his complaint before 
the Empress, and demanded from her Majesty the 
immediate dismissal of Paesiello from the Court, 
for having had the audacity to return a blow upon 
a Marshal of the Russian Empire. Catherine's 
reply was, " I neither can nor will attend to your 
request; you forgot your dignity when you gave 
an unoffending man and a great artist a blow ; are 
you surprised that he should have forgotten it too ? 
and as to rank, it is in my power, Sir, to make 
fifty marshals, but not one Paesiello." 

I give the above anecdote as I heard it, although 
I confess it is rather a strange coincidence, that a 
similar circumstance should have occurred to Hol- 
bein, when a complaint was made against him to 
Henry VIII. by a Peer of Great Britain. 

Casti was a remarkably quick writer ; in a short 
time he finished his drama, entitled " II Re Teo- 
doro." It was said, Joseph II. gave him the sub- 
ject, and that it was intended as a satire upon the 
King of Sweden, but the fact I believe was never 



MICHAEL KELLY. 237 

ascertained. The characters of the drama were 
Teodoro, Signer Mandini; Taddeo, the Venetian 
innkeeper, Bennuci ; the sultan Achmet, Bussani ; 
his sultana, Signora Laschi ; Lisetta, daughter to 
the innkeeper, Signora Storace ; and Sandrino, her 
lover, Signor Viganoni ; all these performers were 
excellent in their way, and their characters 
strongly pourtrayed ; but the most marked part, 
and on which the able Casti had bestowed the 
most pains, was that of Gafferio, the king's secre- 
tary. This character was written avowedly, as a 
satire on General Faoli, and drawn with a masterly 
hand. Casti declared, there was not a person in 
our company (not otherwise employed in the 
opera) capable of undertaking this part. It was 
decided, therefore, by the directors of the theatre, 
to send immediately to Venice, to engage Signor 
Blasi, at any price, to come and play it. This 
delayed us a little, and in the interim, Storace 
gave a quartett party to his friends. The players 
were tolerable ; not one of them excelled on the 
instrument he played, but there was a little 
science among them, which I dare say will be 
acknowledged when I name them : 

The First Violin .... HAYDN. 

Second Violin . . . BARON DITTERSDORF. 

Violoncello .... VAN HALL. 

Tenor MOZART. 



238 REMINISCENCES OF 

The poet Casti and Paesiello formed part of the 
audience. I was there, and a greater treat, or a 
more remarkable one, cannot be im alined. 

o 

On the particular evening to which I am now 
specially referring, after the musical feast was over, 
we sat down to an excellent supper, and became 
joyous and lively in the extreme. After several 
songs had been sung, Storace, who was present, 
asked me to give them the Canzonetta. Now thereby 
hung a tale, new to the company ! The truth was 
this: There was an old miser of the name of 
Varesi, living at Vienna, who absolutely denied 
himself the common necessaries of life, and who 
made up his meals by pilfering fruits and sweet- 
meats from the parties to which he was invited ; 
the canzonetta for which Storace asked, he was 
particularly fond of singing with a tremulous 
voice, accompanied by extraordinary gestures, and 
a shake of the head ; it was, in fact, this imita- 
tion which I was called upon to exhibit, and I did 
so. During my performance, I perceived Casti 
particularly attentive, and when I had finished, he 
turned to Paesiello, and said, " This is the v<ery 
fellow to act the character of Gafferio, in our opera ; 
this boy shall be our old man ! and if he keep old 
Varesi in his eye when he acts it, I will answer for 
his success." The opera was brought out, the 
drama was excellent, and the music was acknow- 

2 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

ledged the chef-cTceuvre of Paesiello. Overflowing 
houses, for three successive seasons, bore testimony 
to its merits. I played the old man ; and although 
really little more than a boy, never lost sight of the 
character I was personating for a moment. 

After the first night's performance, His Majesty, 
the Emperor, was pleased to have it signified to 
me, through Prince Rosenberg, that he was so 
much surprised and pleased with my performance, 
that he had ordered an addition to my salary of 
one hundred zecchinos per annum, (about fifty 
pounds British,) which I ever after enjoyed, during 
my stay at Vienna : in short, wherever I went I 
was nicknamed Old Gafferio. 

Paesiello was particularly kind to me, during his 
stay at Vienna, and was much diverted with my 
monkey antics. When at Naples, he wrote to 
me, to say that the King of Naples had commanded 
him to put the opera of " II Teodoro" in rehearsal, 
and wished me to ask the Emperor for six months'* 
leave of absence to go to Naples and perform in it ; 
and I should have my journey paid, and a most 
ample remuneration given me. This offer, liberal 
as it was 5 for private reasons not worth recording, 
I refused. The song in Old GafFerio's part, which 
I may say was the lucky star of my professional 
career, strange as it may appear, I had the folly to 
refuse to sing, thinking it too trivial for me. I sent 



240 REMINISCENCES OF 

it back to Paesiello ; he desired to see me I went 
and he played me the beautiful accompaniment 
for it which he had written, but which was not sent 
me, I having received only the voice part. When 
I was going away, this great man gave me a gentle 
admonition, not to judge of things rashly : a piece 
of advice not thrown away upon me. 

The Emperor, this season, had a number of gala 
days, both at Vienna and at Schoenbrunn, the 
gardens of which very much resemble those of 
Hampton Court, but on a larger scale. There were 
several balls and fetes given there, and fireworks 
of the most brilliant description, all open to the 
public. I remember one evening, seeing there Lord 
and Lady Buckley, Sir Robert Williams, Lord 
and Lady Granard, Colonel and Mrs. Doyle, and 

* 

a great number of English nobility, who were 
then at Vienna, and whom I had the honour of 
meeting at Sir Robert Keith's, the English ambas- 
sador. 

There were a number of fetes also given at the 
Hantz Garden, which the people of Vienna fre- 
quented, particularly on Sundays : several of the 
alleys and walks are like those in Kensington 
Gardens. In the gardens there was an excellent 
restaurant, where dinner parties continually met ; 
and the accommodations were excellent. 

An event happened to me in returning to Vienna, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

from that place, which, at the time, made a terrific 
impression on me. There was a young nobleman 
at Vienna, whose name it would be improper to 
publish (though the transaction was perfectly 

notorious). The son of Prince P , who had 

been governor of Gratz ; five and twenty year^.of 
age, very affable and accomplished, although wild 
and dissipated. Remembering me at Gratz, he 
often called upon me at Vienna. He was a great 
musical amateur, and a constant attendant at the 
Italian Opera House. One morning, he called, and 
asked me to meet him at three o'clock at the Hantz 
Garden, and dine with him there afterwards. I 
kept my appointment ; we had an excellent tete-a- 
tete dinner, and passed an extremely pleasant day. 
It was in the summer season, and about nine o'clock 
we returned to Vienna in a hackney coach. As we 
were entering the Grauben Street, the coach was 
stopped and surrounded by a crowd of police 
officers ; both the doors were instantly opened, and 
the Count and myself dragged into the street. 
Mr. Wivse, lieutenant of police, came to me and 
desired me not to be alarmed. " Mr. O'Kelly," said 
he, " you have nothing to fear, but we have a 

warrant against your companion, Count P , for 

forgery, to a large amount : you are at liberty to 
go where you please, but he must be taken to 
prison." 

VOL. I. M 



REMINISCENCES OF 

They accordingly took him away, and I was not 
allowed to follow him. In a few days he was tried, 
and condemned to sweep the streets of Vienna. 
Often, as I have been walking, I have met this 
unfortunate man, with his head shaved, wearing a 
paper cap, and a jacket of coarse cloth, chained, 
with a large log tied to his leg, and a broom in his 
hand, actually sweeping the crossways with other 
felons. 

Those unfortunate wretches, after they have 
swept the streets for a limited period, as an example, 
are chained in couples, and compelled to drag 
barges on the Danube. Every interest was made 

to save him ; the Princess L n, to whom he 

was nearly related, then in a most critical state of 
health, threw herself upon her knees before the 
Emperor to procure his pardon ; but His Majesty 
was inflexible, and said that, " If he had a son who 
had been guilty of the same crime, he should 
undergo the same punishment." This event made 
an awful impression on me, and it was long before 
my spirits recovered the shock. 

Just after this startling event, the Italian com- 
pany were ordered to prepare to follow His Majesty 
to his palace at Luxemburgh, and to remain there 
for the summer months. The palace is only a few 
miles from Vienna, and nothing can be more mag- 
nificent ; it is surrounded by forests full of all kinds 



MICHAEL KELLY. 243 

'of game; the park, gardens, and grounds, truly 
beautiful, and in the centre of a rich and luxuriant 
country. The theatre was very pretty, and very 
well attended ; for all had their entree to it gratis, 
including the surrounding peasantry. 

Italian operas were performed three times, Ger- 
man plays twice, and German operas twice in each 
week. I passed the time here most delightfully, 
Every performer of the Italian opera had separate 
apartments allotted to him, and his breakfast was 
sent thither. There was a magnificent saloon, in 
which we all met at dinner. The table was plen- 
tifully and luxuriantly supplied with every delicacy 
of the season; with wines of all descriptions, as 
well as all kinds of fruits, ices, &c. ; and every 
night, after the spectacle, an excellent supper. In 
the mornings I had nothing to do (there were no 
rehearsals) but to amuse myself. The Emperor 
and his Court went often in chase of the Airone 
bird an amusement he was very partial to. Prince 
Dichtrestein, the Master of the Horse, was very 
friendly to Signora Storace, and did her the kind- 
ness to send her one of the court barouches to view 
the chase. I always accompanied her on these 
excursions. 

One day, the Emperor rode up to our carriage 
on horseback, and asked us, if we were amused, 
and if he could do any thing for us. Storace, with 



REMINISCENCES OF 

her peculiar characteristic bluntness, said, "Why, 

J. JV 

Sire, I am very thirsty, will your Majesty be so 
good as to order me a glass of water?" The 
Emperor with his usual affability smiled, called to 
one of his attendants to grant the request, and the 
glass of water was brought. 

I have another instance to record of the con- 
descension and urbanity of the Emperor. He 
one day reviewed twenty thousand of his finest 
troops: it was a glorious sight, and one that I 
shall never forget. Signora Storace, her mother, 
Bennuci, and myself, were on the ground at six 
o'clock in our barouche. The Emperor, who had 
a very military appearance, was surrounded by 
his staff, and accompanied by his nephew and 
heir, Grand Marshals Prince De Ligne, Prince 

o -> 

Charles Lichtenstein, Prince Schwartzenberg, 
Prince Lokowitz, &c. &c. Marshals Lacy's .and 
Laudon's regiments were on the ground, as well 
as some fine Hungarian regiments and the Em- 
peror's Hungarian and Polish Guards, who made 
a magnificent appearance. To me it was en- 
chantment. Our barouche was within view of the 
Emperor; and he sent one of his Aides-de-camp 
to us, to order the carnage to be drawn up nearer 
to himself. 

At the close of the review, he rode up to us, 
and said, " Has not this been a fine sight ? this 






MICHAEL KELLY. 

place is my stage ; here I am the first actor. 1 ' And 
when General O'Kavanagh's regiment passed be- 
fore him, with their colonel at their head, he 

j / 

condescended to say to me, " Look there, GTKelly ; 
look, there goes your countryman O'Kavanagh, 
and a fine old soldier he is !" I never spent a 
more delightful day than that, which never has 
been effaced from my recollection. 

Three delicious months did we pass at Luxem- 
burgh, living in luxury and pleasure: at the end 
of which the Emperor returned to Vienna, and we 
received orders to follow him. 

The theatre was opened immediately after our 
arrival. I was situated in every respect to ray 
heart's content, living a life of gaiety and pleasure ; 
and, thanks to the kindness and patronage of Sir 
Robert Keith, mixed with the best English so- 
ciety. A Mr. Stratton, a native of Scotland, 
who was Secretary to the British Embass}", ' was 
also kindly attentive to me. At Sir Robert's I 
often had the honour of meeting the young Polish 
Prince Poniatowski, then in the service of Joseph 
the Second ; he was remarkable for his elegance of 
manner and riding, and great partiality to almost 
unmanageable horses. I received many marks of 
friendship from him ; he entered subsequently 
into the service of Buonaparte, and was unfortu- 
nately drowned in fording a river. 



46 REMINISCENCES OF 

At this period of my life I was rather vain, and 
very fond of fine clothes ; indeed, my greatest ex- 
pense was the decoration of my precious person. 
I wore every evening, full dress embroidered coats, 
either gold, silver, or silk. I wore two watches 
(as was the custom of the country), and a diamond 
ring on each of my little fingers; thus decked 
out, I had not of course the least appearance of 
a Paddy. While sitting one evening in the Milan 
coffee-house, reading the Vienna Gazette, two gen- 
tlemen entered, and seated themselves opposite to 
me to take their coffee. One of them said to the 
other, with a most implacable Irish brogue, " Arrah, 
blood and thunder ! hike at that fellow sitting 
opposite to us (meaning me) ; did you ever see such 
a jackdaw ?" 

" Really," answered his companion (who I per- 
ceived was an Englishman), " the fellow does not 
seem to be on bad terms with himself."" 

" Look at his long lace ruffles, said my coun- 
tryman ; " I suppose he wears ruffles, to mark his 
gentility." 

I continued reading my gazette ; but when 
the critique upon my long lace ruffles was ended, 
I laid down the paper, and tucked them up 
under the cuffs of my coat, not looking at the 
gentlemen, or seeming to take any notice of 
them. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 247 

" But now do luke" continued the persevering 
brogueneer ; " what a display he is making of his 
rings ; I suppose he thinks he will dazzle our eyes 
a bit." 

Upon this, I deliberately took off my rings, and 
put them into my pocket ; at the same time fixing 
a steady look at my critics, I told them, in English, 
that " If there were any other part of my dress 
at all disagreeable to them, I should have the 
greatest pleasure in altering it in any way they 
might suggest."" 

The Irishman (improbable as it may appear) 
blushed ; and the Englishman said, " He hoped I 
would not feel an offence, where none was meant. 1 
I said, " Certainly not ;" and to prove my sincerity, 
requested them to take part of a bowl of punch, 
and drink our Sovereign King George^s health, 
and towards our better acquaintance ; and thus, in 
despite, of laced ruffles and diamond rings, we intro- 
duced ourselves to one another. 

My Irish friend, I found, was a Doctor CTRourke, 
from the county of Down, who had only the day 
before arrived from Prague, where he had been for 
many years a medical practitioner ; and, in my 
new English acquaintance, I had the pleasure to 
find the eccentric Walking Stewart, so named 
from having walked almost all over the world, 



248 REMINISCENCES OF 

and whose pedestrian exploits were universally 
spoken of. 

After taking our punch, we separated, and 
agreed to meet and dine together the next day 
at the French house, kept by the famous Monsieur 
Villar, celebrated, though a Frenchman, for 
giving excellent beef steaks, and dressing them to 
perfection a VAnglaise. Stewart, though a great 
oddity, was a well-informed, accomplished man ; 
a true lover of the arts and sciences, and of a 
most retentive memory. The last little walk he 
had taken was from Calais, through France, Italy, 
and the Tyrol, to Vienna, and in a few days 
he was going to extend it as far as Constanti- 
nople. He was partial to most things in Eng- 
land, except the climate ; he said, " Sir, I am 
perfectly of opinion with Addison, that, in na- 
ture, there is nothing more inconstant than the 
British climate, except the humour of its in- 
habitants." 

He was a great enthusiast about music, al- 
though not about beef steaks ; for, of the most 
tender, and dressed in Monsieur Villar"s best man- 
ner, he 'would not touch a morsel; he lived entirely 
upon vegetables : but my friend, the Irish Doctor, 
was in truth a beef-eater. 

In a few days Stewart left us to take his saun- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 24-9 

lering walk to Constantinople, and I very much 
regretted the loss of his society ; but, as the doctor 
had come to reside at Vienna, we passed :&? good 
deal of our time together. 

I had the pleasure, about this time, to be intro- 
duced to Monsieur Martini. He was a very old 
man. His sister, nearly his own age, kept his 
house for him. She was reckoned a deep blu.J, 
and very well versed in all the arts and scien: 
The great poet Metasiasio had lived sixty year* 
in her brother's house, upon the most friendly 
terms, and died in it. The colleges of Bologna 
and Pavia gave her the title of Dottoressa ; and 
deputations came from both those places, with her 
diploma. When I was admitted to her conversa- 
ziones and musical parties, she was in the vale of 

** flJ 

years, yet still possessed the gaiety and vivacivy of 
a girl, and was polite and affable to all. Mozart 
was an almost constant attendant at her parties, and 
I have heard him play duets on the piano-forte 
with her, of his own composition. She was a great 
favourite of his. 

At one of her parties I had the pleasure to Tie 
introduced to Mrs. Piozzi, who, with her husband, 
was travelling on the Continent ; there appeared to 
ine a great similarity in the manners of tlies;? t^u 
gifted women, who conversed with all a ound 
them without pedantry, or affectation. It was 

M5 



250 REMINISCENCES OF 

certainly an epoch, not to be forgotten, to have 
had the good fortune, on the same evening, to be 
in company with the favourites of Metastasio 
and Dr. Johnson ; and last, not least, with Mozart 
himself. 

There was a very excellent company of German 
singers at the Canatore Theatre; it was more 
spacious than the Imperial Court Theatre. The 
first female singer was Madame Lange, wife to the 
excellent comedian of that name, and sister to 
Madame Mozart. She was a wonderful favourite, 
and deservedly so ; she had a greater extent of 
high notes than any other singer I ever heard. 
The songs which Mozart composed for her in 
" L'Enlevement du Serail,"" shew what a compass of 
voice she had; her execution was most brilliant. 
Stephen Storace told me it was far beyond that of 
Bastardini, who was engaged to sing at the Pan- 
theon in London, and who, for each night of her 
performance of two songs, received one hundred 
guineas, an enormous sum at that time ; and (com- 
paratively speaking) more than two hundred at the 
present day*. 

* Storace was then a boy, studying music under his father, 
who gave him a bravura song of Bastardini's to copy. Storace 
was so astonished that fifty guineas should be paid for singing a 
song, that he counted the notes in it, and calculated the amount 
of each note at 4s. Wd. He valued one of the divisions running 



MICHAEL KELLY, 

A number of foreign Princes, among whom were 
the Due de Deux Fonts, the Elector of Bavaria, 
&c., with great retinues, came to visit the Emperor, 
who, upon this occasion, signified his wish to have 
two grand serious operas, both the composition of 
Chevalier Gluck, " L' Iphigenia in Tauride,'' 
and " L' Alceste," produced under the direction of 
the composer; and gave orders that no expense 
should be spared to give them every effect. 

Gluck was then living at Vienna, where he had 
retired, crowned with professional honours, and a 
splendid fortune, courted and caressed by all ranks, 
and in his seventy-fourth year. 

L' Iphigenia was the first opera to be produced, 
and Gluck was to make his choice of the performers 
in it. Madame Bernasconi was one of the first 
serious singers of the day, to her was appropriated 
the part of Iphigenia. The celebrated tenor, Adem- 
berger, performed the part of Orestes, finely. To 
me was allotted the character of Pylades, which 
created no small envy among those performers who 
thought themselves better entitled to the part than 
myself, and perhaps they were right ; however, I 
had it, and also the high gratification of being in- 
structed in the part by the composer himself. 

up and down at ..18 11s. It was a whimsical thing for a boy 
to do, but perfectly in character; his passion for calculation 
was beyond all belief, except to those who witnessed it. 



EEMINISCENCES OF 

One morning, after I had been singing with him, 
he said, " Follow me up stairs, Sir, arid I will in- 
troduce you to one, whom, all my life, I have made 
my study, and endeavoured to imitate."" I followed 
him into his bed-room, and, opposite to the head 
of the bed, saw a full-length picture of Handel, in 
a rich frame. " There, Sir," said he, " is the por- 
trait of the inspired master of our art ; when I open 
my eyes in the morning, I look upon him with 
reverential awe, and acknowledge him as such ; and 
the highest praise is due to your country for having 
distinguished and cherished his gigantic genius. 

L' Iphigem'a was soon put into rehearsal, and a 
corps de ballet engaged for the incidental dances 
belonging to the piece. The ballet-master was 
Monsieur De Camp, the uncle of that excellent 
actress, and accomplished and deserving woman, 
Mrs. Charles Kemble. Gluck superintended the 
rehearsals, with his powdered wig, and gold-headed 
cane ; the orchestra and choruses were augmented, 
and all the parts were well filled. 

The second opera was Alceste, which was got 
up with magnificence and splendour, worthy an 
Imperial Court. 

For describing the strongest passions in music, 
and proving grand dramatic effect, in my opinion, 
no man ever equalled Gluck lie was a great 
painter of music; perhaps the expression is far 



MICHAEL KELLY. 253 

fetched, and may not be allowable, but I speak 
from my own feelings, and the sensation his de- 
scriptive music always produced on me. For 
example, I never could hear, without tears, the 
dream of Orestes, in Iphigenia : when in sleep, he 
prays the gods to give a ray of peace to the parri- 
cide Orestes. What can be more expressive of 
-deep and dark despair? And the fine chorus of 
the demons who surround his couch, with the ghost 
of his mother, produced in me a feeling of horror, 
mixed with delight. 

Dr. Burney (no mean authority) said, Gluck 
was the Michael Angelo of living composers, and 
called him the simplifying musician. Salieri told 
me, that a comic opera of -Gluck's being performed 
at the Elector Palatine's theatre, at Schwetzingen, 
his Electoral Highness was struck with the music, 
and inquired who had composed it ; on being in- 
formed that he was an honest German who loved 
old wine, his Highness immediately ordered him a 
tun of Hock. 

Paesiellofs Barbiere di Siviglia, which he com- 
posed in Russia, and brought with him to Vienna, 
was got up ; Signer Mandini and I played the part 
of Count Alma viva alternately ; Storace was the 
ilosina. There were three operas now on the tapis, 
< le by Regini, another by Salieri (the Grotto of 
Trophonius), and one by Mozart, by special com- 



REMINISCENCES OF 

mand of the Emperor. Mozart chose to have 
Beaumarchais" French comedy, * ; Le Mariage de 
Figaro," made into an Italian opera, which was 
done with great ability, by Da Ponte. These three 
pieces were nearly ready for representation at the 
same time, and each composer claimed the right of 
producing his opera for the first. The contest 
raised much discord, and parties were formed. 
The characters of the three men were all very dif- 
ferent. Mozart was as touchy as gunpowder, and 
swore he would put the score of his opera into the 
fire, if it was not produced first ; his claim was 
backed by a strong party : on the contrary, Regini 
was working like a mole in the dark to get pre- 
cedence. 

The third candidate was Maestro di Cappella to 
the Court, a clever shrewd man, possessed of what 
Bacon called, crooked wisdom ; and his claims were 
backed by three of the principal performers, who 
formed a cabal not easily put down. Every one of 
the opera company took part in the contest. I 
alone was a stickler for Mozart, and naturally 
enough, for he had a claim on my warmest wishes, 
from my adoration of his powerful genius, and the 
debt of gratitude I owed him, for many personal 
favours. 

The mighty contest was put an end to by His 
Majesty issuing a mandate for Mozart's " Nozze 






MICHAEL KELLY 255 

di Figaro," to be instantly put into rehearsal ; and 
none more than Michael O'Kelly, enjoyed the little 
great man's triumph over his rivals. 

Of all the performers in this opera at that time, 
but one survives, myself. It was allowed that 
never was opera stronger cast. I have seen it per- 
formed at different periods in other countries, and 
well too, but no more to compare with its original 
performance than light is to darkness. All the 
original performers had the advantage of the in- 
struction of the composer, who transfused into 
their minds his inspired meaning. I never shall 
forget his little animated countenance, when lighted 
up with the glowing rays of genius ; it is as im- 
possible to describe it, as it would be to paint sun- 
beams. 

I called on him one evening ; he said to me ? " I 
have just finished a little duet for my opera, you 
shall hear it." He sat down to the piano, and we 
sang it. I was delighted with it, and the musical 
world will give me credit for being so, when I men- 
tion the duet, sung by Count Almaviva and Susan, 
" Crudel perche finora farmi languire cosi." A 
more delicious morceau never was penned by man ; 
and it has often been a source of pleasure to me, 
to have been the first who heard it, and to have 
sung it with its greatly-gifted composer. I re- 
member at the first rehearsal of the full band, 



256 REMINISCENCES OF 

Mozart was on the stage with his crimson pelisse 
and gold-laced cocked hat, giving the time of the 
music to the orchestra. Figaro's song, " Non piii 
andrai, farfallone amoroso," Bennuci gave, with the 
greatest animation and power of voice. \\fo Q7 

I was standing close to Mozart, who, sotto voce, 
was repeating, Bravo ! Bravo ! Bennuci ; and when 
Bennuci came to the fine passage, " Cherubino, alia 
vittoria, alia gloria militar," which he gave out with 
Stentorian lungs, the effect was electricity itself, 
for the whole of the performers on the stage, and 
those in the orchestra, as if actuated by one feeling 
of delight, vociferated Bravo ! Bravo ! Maestro- 
Viva, viva, grande Mozart. Those in the orchestra 
I thought would never have ceased applauding, 
by beating the bows of their violins against the 
music desks. The little man acknowledged, by 
repeated obeisances, his thanks for the distin- 
guished mark of enthusiastic applause bestowed 
upon him. j n 

The same meed of approbation was given to the 
finale at the end of the first act; that piece of music 
alone, in my humble opinion, if he h:id never com- 
posed any thing else good, would have stan: 
him as the greatest master of his art. In the 
tetto, in the second act, (which was Mozart'* 
favourite piece of the whole opera,) I had a V.TV 
conspicuous part, as the Stuttering Judge. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 257 

through the piece I was to stutter; but in the 

; 

sestetto, Mozart requested I would not, for if I did, 
I should spoil his music. I told him, that although 
it might appear very presumptuous in a lad like 
me to differ with him on this point, I did ; and was 
sure, the way in which I intended to introduce the 
stuttering, would not interfere with the other parts, 
but produce an effect ; besides, it certainly was not 
in nature, that I should stutter all through the 
part, and when I came to the sestetto, speak plain . 
and after that piece of music was over, return to 
stuttering ; and, I added, (apologising at the same 
time, for my apparent want of deference and respect 
in placing my opinion in opposition to that of the 
great Mozart,) that unless I was allowed to per- 
form the part as I wished, I would not perform it 
at all. 

Mozart at last consented that I should have my 
own way, but doubted t^e success of the experi- 
ment. Crowded houses proved that nothing ever on 
the stage produced a more powerful effect ; the 
audience were convulsed with laughter, in which 
Mozart himself joined. The Emperor repeatedly 
cried out Bravo ! and the piece was loudly applauded 
and encbred. When the opera was over, Mozart 
came on the stage to me, and shaking me by both 
.hands, said, "Bravo! young man, I feel obliged 
to you ; and acknowledge you to have been in the 



258 REMINISCENCES OF 

right, and myself in the wrong." There was cer- 
tainly a risk run, but I felt within myself I could 
give the effect I wished, and the event proved that 
I was not mistaken. 

I have seen the opera in London, and elsewhere, 
and never saw the Judge pourtrayed as a stutterer, 
and the scene was often totally omitted. I played 
it as a stupid old man, though at the time I was a 
beardless stripling. At the end of the opera, I 
thought the audience would never have done ap- 
plauding and calling for Mozart ; almost every 
piece was encored, which prolonged it nearly to the 
length of two operas, and induced the Emperor to 
issue an order, on the second representation, that no 
piece of music should be encored. Never was any 
thing more complete than the triumph of Mozart, 
and his " Nozze di Figaro," to which numerous 
overflowing audiences bore witness *. 

One morning, while we were rehearsing in the 
grand saloon of the palace, His Majesty, accom- 
panied by Prince Rosenberg, entered the saloon, 
and addressing himself to Storace, Mandini, and 
Bennuci, said, " I dare say, you are all pleased, 

* I was not aware, at that time, of what I have since found to 
be the fact, that those who labour under the defect of stuttering 
while speaking, articulate distinctly in singing. That excellent 
bass, Sedgwick, was an instance of it ; and the beautiful Mrs. 
Inchbald, the authoress, another. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 259 

thafe I have desired there shall be no more encores ; 
to have your songs so often repeated, must be a 
great fatigue, and very distressing to you." Storace 
replied, " It is indeed, Sire, very distressing, very 
much so ;" the other two bowed, as if they were of 
the same opinion. I was close to His Majesty, and 
said boldly to him, " Do not believe them, Sire, 
they all like to be encored, at least I am sure I 
always do." His Majesty laughed, and I believe 
he thought there was more truth in my assertion, 
than in theirs. I am sure there was. 

In the midst of all this gaiety and splendour, I 
received a letter from my father in Dublin, stating, 
that my mother was in a declining state of health, 
and that it was her earnest wish, that I should 
return to Dublin, if only for a few months ; at the 
same time I got a letter from Mr. Linley, to say, 
that he and Mr. Sheridan would be very happy to 
treat with me for Drury Lane Theatre ; that Stephen 
Storace would be soon at Vienna, and that he would 
have a carte blanche to close an engagement with 
me, on their parts. I confess, I had a great desire 
to see my mother ; but for the present it was out 
of the question, as it was the very height of the 
season. 

In the summer, the Emperor went to Luxem- 
burgh ; and I, with the other performers of the 
Italian opera, was of course obliged to follow : 



260 REMINISCENCES OF 

we remained there three months, in the usual 
enjoyment of every thing pleasant and luxurious; 
nothing of any particular interest occurred, and at 
the close of the summer, we again returned to our 
post at Vienna. 

In the Spring of 1787, there was a great number 
of English at Vienna; amongst whom, where Lord 
Belgrave, now the Earl of Grosvenor^ with his 
tutor, Mr. Gilford, one of the greatest ornaments 
of the literary world : Lord Bernard, now Earl of 
Darlington ; Lord Dungarvon, now Earl of Cork ; 
Lord de Clifford ; Lord Carberry ; Earl of Craw- 
ford ; Sir John Sebright ; Colonel Lennox ; Mr. 
Dawkins ; Mr. John Spencer ; and many other 
fashionables ; who were all young and full of viva- 
city perhaps rather too lively to suit the temper of 
the phlegmatic Germans, who never heard of such a 
thing among themselves as a row ; but at this 
period, they were initiated. The English noblemen 
and gentlemen formed themselves into a club, took 
a house in the Grauben Street, and generally dined 
together. I had often the honour of dining with 

<> o 

them, and will venture to say, there were more corks 
drawn at one of their dinners, than during the same 
day all over Germany. There was another place 
frequented by many of them after the opera was 
over, which was neither more nor less than a grocer's 
shop in the same street. This grocer was supposed 



MICHAEL KELLY. 261 

to have the finest champagne and hock in the coun- 
try ; I was his constant visitor. Behind the shop 
was a room, where he admitted a chosen few, but it 
was not open to the public. There we always found 
excellent Parmasan cheese, anchovies, olives, and 
oysters. No table cloth was allowed, but each per- 
son had a large piece of brown paper presented to 
him by way of napkin. ,!,$ 

I wish I had now in my cellar the excellent wines 
I have seen, during my sojourn at Vienna, drank in 
that room. Every thing was good except the oysters, 
which were somewhat of- the stalest ; none could be 
procured nearer than Trieste, which was so far from 
Vienna, that they never arrived sweet; but the 
Germans liked them just as well when stale. ^ 

I heard an anecdote, which I was assured was 
authentic, of King George the First, touching 
oysters. When His Majesty went from Hanover 
to England, the Royal Purveyor having heard 
that the King was very fond of oysters, had a 
dish put down every day ; of course, they were 
the finest that could be procured, but the King 
did not like them. This being mentioned to one 
of the pages who went over with him from Ha- 
nover, he told the Purveyor that the King did 
not find the same relishing' taste in the English 
oysters, which he admired so much in those which 
he had in Hanover. " Endeavour," said the 



REMINISCENCES OF 

courtier, " to get His Majesty some that are 
stale, and you will find he will like them. 1 ' The 
experiment was tried, and actually succeeded, for 
His Majesty constantly ate them, and said they 
were delicious. 

Several of the English gentlemen wished to 
introduce horse-racing. The Emperor kindly 
consented to their having any piece of ground 
near Vienna that they chose ; and they fixed upon 
a spot in the Prater. They were to ride their 
own matches. I perfectly recollect that the Earl 
of Darlington, Earl Grosvenor, Lord Carberry, 
Lord de Clifford, and Sir John Sebright, &c. 
were the riders. It w r as quite a novel spectacle 
to the good people of Vienna, and gentle and 
simple, high and low, crowded to the Prater to 
see my Lord Anglais turned jockey. The peo- 
ple seemed enchanted. The Emperor ordered 
his Polish Guards to keep the ground, that the 
riders might meet with no interruption ; every 
thing was order and regularity, and the day 
passed off, to the content and enjoyment of all 
parties. 

Stephen Storace at length arrived at Vienna 
from England, and brought with him an engage- 
ment for his sister, from Gallini, the manager of 
the Opera House in London, as prima donna for 
the comic opera. Her engagement at Vienna was to 



MICHAEL KELLY. 65 

iinish after the ensuing carnival, and she accepted 
it ; and I wished much to accompany her, and go 
to Dublin to see my family. I procured an 
audience of the Emperor at Sehoenbrunn. I found 
him with half-a-dozen General Officers, among 
whom were Generals CTDonnell and Kavanagh, my 
gallant countrymen ; the latter said something to 
me in Irish, which I did not understand, conse- 
quently, made him no answer. The Emperor 
turned quickly on me, and said, " What, O'Kelly, 
don't you speak the language of your own coun- 
try ?" I replied, " Please your Majesty, none 
but the low r er orders of the Irish people speak 
Irish." The Emperor laughed loudly. The im- 
propriety of the remark, made before two Milesian 
Generals, in an instant flashed into my mind, and 
I could have bit my tongue off. They luckily 
did not, or pretended not to hear my unintentionally 
rude observation, it was, it must be confessed, a 
most unlucky impromptu. 

I told His Majesty that I came to implore, after 
the approaching Carnival, His Royal leave of ab- 
sence, to go and see my .mother, in Dublin, for six 
months. He replied, " Six months will not be 
sufficient, take twelve, and your salary shall be 
continued for that period; I will give the ne- 
cessary orders to Prince Rosenberg." I asked per- 
mission to perform in London for a few 

3 



REMINISCENCES OF 

if I found it my interest to do so. " Certainly," 
he replied, " you are right to make the best use 
of your time and talents; accept of any engage- 
ment that may be conducive to your interest, and 
if you do not better yourself, come back to my 
theatre, and you shall be received." He further 
condescended to ask me how I intended travel- 
ling, and pointed out the best roads and accom- 
modations between Vienna and Paris. I had 
the honour of kissing his hand, and returnee! to 
Vienna. 

I remember that night a singular incident oc- 
cured to me. At the Ridotto Rooms, there was 
some play going forward. I never in the course 
of my life, had been addicted to that fashion- 
able amusement, but, on that unlucky evening, 
rebellion lay in my way, and I found it. I lost 
forty zecchinos to a gallant English Colonel ; I 
had only twenty about me, which I paid, and 
promised to pay the other twenty in the course 
of the week. I went home to bed, repenting of 
my folly. 

In the moraine, Nancy Storace called on me. 

o ' 

" So, Sir," said she, " I hear you were gam- 
bling last night, and not only lost all the money 
you had about you, but are still in debt such 
debts ought not to be left unsatisfied a moment ; 
you may one day or other go to England, and. 

2 



MICHAEL KELLY. 265 

should the transaction of your playing for more 
money than you possessed become known among 
Englishmen, it might give you a character which 
I know you do not deserve ; it must be settled 
directly." Sne instantly produced the money, 
and made me go and discharge the obligation. 
Such an act of well-timed, disinterested friend- 
ship was noble, and never has been forgotten 
by me. 

About two months after this, an unlucky cir- 
cumstance happened to me, which might have 
marred all my future prospects in life. A young 
Bohemian officer, of high rank, in the Imperial 
service, chose to take it into his head that I had 
supplanted him in the affections of the Countess 

of S- . Though I assured him to the contrary, 

he did every thing in his power to degrade and 
injure me. He condescended to have me watched, 
go where I would; and even bribed my own 
servant to betray my secrets. Heedless of me- 
naces and threats, however, I went my own way. 

One night, after having played the part of the 
Cavalier, in Paesiello's opera of " La Fraseatana," 
I slipped off my coat, keeping on the rest of my 
theatrical dress, threw my pelisse over me, and went 
to supper at the house of a friend. The opera 
finished at a later hour than usual, and the enter- 
tainment at my friend's house was prolonged till 

VOL. i. N 



266 REMINISCENCES OF 

between four and five in the morning. At the 
time I set out to return, it was rather dark, but 
I could perceive two men following me ; when I 
"was turning round the Italian Street, they came 
behind me, and pushed me against a wall. They 
were muffled up in cloaks ; in one of them I re- 
cognised Count U , and in the other, his com- 
panion, Baron S , an officer in the same re- 
giment. I asked them to let me pass, in the 
Emperor's name, in whose service I was, as well 
as themselves. The reply was, " No, scoundrel ! 
until you confess the justice of my suspicions, 
you shall not escape me ,with life." I firmly 
persisted in not having the slightest knowledge 
of the lady in question. The Baron said, " You 
lie, you rascal ;" and struck me in the face. On 
receiving the blow, I returned it with such force, 
as made my opponent reel backwards from me. 
Finding myself at liberty, I seized the opportunity, 
and took to my heels, thinking my life was only 
to be saved by flight. 

I had not ran far, before I was met by the police, 
who patrolled the streets every night; who, pre- 
senting their swords to my breast, commanded me 
to stop, while my pursuers were close at my heels, 
ready to cut me down with their sabres. These 
two gallant officers represented me to the police as a 
robber ; and the guardians of the night were in the 



MICHAEL KELLY. 



act of dragging me to the guard-house, but, in 
doing so, they pulled open my pelisse, and saw the 
richly embroidered dress in which I had been 
acting. I had my two watches in my pocket, and my 
diamond rings on my fingers. On perceiving these, 
one of the policemen said to the other, " This 
cannot be a thief." I informed them that I was a 
singer belonging to the Court, and requested them 
to conduct me to my lodgings, where they would 
find that I was telling them the truth. I wished, 
from principles of delicacy, to compromise the 
affair, in which the reputation of an individual 
was concerned ; but my heroic opponents (who still 
followed me), swore they would be the first to 
publish the whole transaction, and though I had 
escaped them now, revenge they would have some 
other time, and that then I should bite the dust. 
I told them that, " finding they were dead to all 
sense of honour, I should prevent all their attacks 
as assassins; but I was perfectly ready, notwith- 
standing their cowardly conduct, to meet them as 
men." Full of bluster and threats, they took their 
departure, and the police conducted me in safety to 
my apartments, for which I amply rewarded them. 
The first visit I had, on the following day, was 
from my friend Dr. O'Rourke, who informed me 
that he was told of the whole transaction of the night 



268 REMINISCENCES OF 

before at the Military Coffee-house, and that, 
before four and twenty hours elapsed, my life 
would atone for my conduct. The Doctor begged 
me, by all means, to wait upon my kind friend 
and patron, Marshal Lacy ; upon Prince Charles 
Lichtenstein, Governor of Vienna. Those exalted 
persons advised me, by all means, to lay the whole 
transaction before the Emperor ; and Prince Lich- 
tenstein promised he would prepare His Majesty 
for the recital. 

As the Emperor was free of access to all, I 
sought an audience, and was honoured with the 
following gracious reception: " So, CTKelly," 
said His Majesty, " I hear that a disagreeable 
circumstance bcfel you last night. Prince Lichten- 
stein has told me all about it. I do not wish to 
hear anv thing about the lady, keep that in your 
own breast ; and, upon that point, you have acted as 
a man of honour : I only want to know from your- 
self how the quarrel began with my officers." 

I related the whole of the circumstances as they 

/ 

occurred, except one. The Emperor assured me I 
should have full satisfaction, and gave directions for 
the two heroes to be sent for. They were brought 
before him, and he inquired of them how they had 
dared to violate the laws. The Count said that I 
was the aggressor, by standing in the way of his 



MICHAEL KELLY. 269 

pretensions to a lady for whom he had conceived an 
affection, which, but for such interference, would, in 
all probability, be returned. 

The Emperor, to the best of my recollection, 
made the following remarks verbatim : " So, Sir, 
because you love a lady, to whom you are indif- 
ferent, you think you are justified in behaving ill to 
those on whom she chooses to bestow her attention*: 
my laws, Sir, are not to be sacrificed to your 
malice, nor is the honour of my army to be sullied 
by any man who chooses to act in a manner unworthy 
of his rank. The duty of my officers is not only 
to keep peace themselves, but to preserve it invio- 
late against the attempts of others. What you both 
have done will justly stigmatize you in the eyes of 
the whole army. On my highway you attacked 
this young man, whose life you had meanly sought, 
at a moment when he was unarmed, and with odds, 
which baffled his making resistance." 

They attempted to justify their conduct by 
obser.uig, that they should degrade their birth 
and rank in society, by suffering themselves to be 
imposed on by a player, whom they considered so 
much beneath them. The Emperor said, " The 
player whom you affect to despise is a man of 
honour; but, as for you, you have acted like 
assassins, and, from this moment, I consider you 
unworthy to continue in my service ; I shall 



270 REMINISCENCES OF 

therefore give orders for removing you from 
the army." The next day they were publicly 
degraded. 

The whole of the above, nearly as I have 
written it, was inserted in all the public prints, and 
circulated throughout Germany. 

I had the pleasure to hear from all quarters that 
the Emperor's decision was hailed as an act of jus- 
tice; and the first night I afterwards appeared 
on the stage, I was received with repeated plaudits, 
which implied, I flattered myself, that the audience 
generally approved of my conduct. 

The Carnival was now fast approaching. I 
informed Stephen Storace of the leave of absence 
I had obtained from the Emperor, and that I would 
accompany him and his sister, and mother, to 
London, at the close of the festival, and that he 
might let the proprietors of Drury Lane know, that 
I should be ready to try my fortune at their theatre 
about the beginning of April, but that I would not 
stipulate for any fixed terms : those, I told him, I 
would arrange upon my arrival in London, and I 
had no doubt but we should agree. 

The Carnival was kept with more than common 
splendour. Vienna was crowded with foreigners 
of all nations, and a number of British, in addition 
to those I made mention of. The ridotto balls 
were fully attended, and all was revelry and plea,- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 271 

sure. The English were particularly respected 
and beloved but, alas ! there were some half-dozen 
amongst them (who 'shall be nameless) who occa- 
sionally sacrificed to the jolly god, and, when heated 
with wine, would sally out into the street and shew 
a great inclination to encourage the trade of lamp- 
mending^ which, one night, they did so effectually, 
that they did not leave a lamp unbroken in the 
Grauben-street, or the street adjoining. 

The art of lamp-smashing wa^ not understood 
by the unaccomplished young men of Vienna, and 
great was their wonder and dismay that they should 
have lived so long in a state of ignorance ; but 
the police, not wishing to have the science cultivated 
amongst their countrymen, intimated to the pro- 
fessors of the novel art that they must pay for what 
they had demolished, or, upon a repetition of their 
valorous exploits, they should be sent to prison. 

I was very sorry that the affair happened, 
although not more than half a dozen were concerned 
in it ; for, with this exception, no set of gentlemen 
could have conducted themselves with greater 
propriety. It was understood, however, that the 
Emperor was very much displeased, and had given 
orders, that the first person found committing 
any breach of the peace, should be put into con- 
finement. 

Four days before my departure for England, a 
little contre temps had nearly broken up our tra- 



REMINISCENCES OF 

veiling arrangements. We were supping at -the 
Ridotto Rooms, and my poor friend, Stephen 
Storace, who was proverbially a sober man, and 
who had a strong head for every thing but drink- 
ing, had swallowed potent libations of sparkling 
Champagne, which rendered him rather confused. 
He went into the ball-room, and saw his sister 
dancing with an officer in uniform, booted and 
spurred. In twirling round while waltzing, his 
spurs got entangled in Storace's dress, and both she 
and the officer came to the ground, to the great 
amusement of the by-standers. Stephen, thinking 
his sister had been intentionally insulted, com- 
menced personal hostilities against the officer : 
a great bustle ensued, which was ended by half 
a dozen policemen seizing Storace, and dragging 
him to the guard-house, to which several English 
gentlemen followed him. The officer of the guard 
was very good-natured, and allowed us to send 
for some eatables and Champagne ; we remained 
with him all night, and a jovial night we had. In 
the morning we departed, but Storace was obliged 
to tarry in durance vile till further orders. He was 
not, however, the least discomfited; he thought of 
the Italian proverb, as he told me, 

" Non andera sempre cosi ; come diceva 
II piccolo cane, qnando menava 
II rosto, alia fine la came sara cuccitta.'* 



MICHAEL KELLY. 



I was determined to make a bold push to get him 
released in the evening. I placed myself in the 
corridor through which the Emperor passed after 
his dinner to his study, He saw me, and said, 
" Why, CTIvelly, I thought you were off for 
England ?" " I can't go, Sire," was my answer ; 
" my friend, who was to travel with me, was last 
night put into prison." I then told His Majesty 
who it was, and how it happened. He laughed at 
the tipsy composer's wanting to fight, and said, " I 
am very sorry for Storace, for he is a man of great 
talent; but I regret to observe that some of your 
English gentry who travel, appear much altered 
from what they used to be. Formerly, they 
travelled after they had quitted College, it ap- 
pears to me that now they travel before they go 
to it." His Majesty then left me, saying, " Bon 
voyage, O'Kelly, I shall give directions that 
Storace may be set at liberty." 

The next morning he was liberated. I waited 
upon my kind patron, Sir Robert Keith, Marshals 
Lacy and Laudon, and all those friends who had 
honoured me with their hospitality and protection. 
I went to take leave of the immortal Mo/art, and 
his charming wife and family ; he gave me a letter 
to his father, Leopold Mozart, who was at die 
Court of Saltzbourg. I could hardly tear myself 
away from him; and, at parting, we both shed 



274 REMINISCENCES Of 

tears. Indeed, the memory of the many happy 
days which I passed at Vienna will never be 
effaced from my mind. 

In the first week of February 1787, I quitted 
it with a heart full of grief and gratitude. Storace, 
her mother, her brother, Attwood, and myself, not 
forgetting Signora Storace's lap-dog, filled the tra- 
velling carriage, and with four horses we started for 
England Ho ! 

Were I to recount the desagremens of a Ger- 
man journey, my task would be endless. I shall 
therefore content myself with mentioning the 
different places at which we stopped : the first, 
worthy of observation, was Saltzbourg, which would 
be celebrated, if for nothing else, as the birth-place 
of Mozart, who was born there in the year 1756. 
As I viewed its lofty spires from a distance, I felt 
a kind of reverential awe. The morning after our 
arrival, escorted by a lacquais de place, I waited 
upon Mozart's father, and delivered his son's 
letter. I found him a pleasing, intelligent little 
man ; he called upon Signora Storace, and offered 
to be our guide to every thing worth noticing ; 
he was, as I have before mentioned, in the 
service of the reigning Sovereign, the Arch- 
bishop, who was passionately fond of music, and a 
distinguished amateur ; he had also in his service 
Michael Haydn, brother of the celebrated Haydn, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 275 

who was by many competent judges reckoned even 
superior to his brother in the composition of church 
music. Saltzbourg is well built : the Archbishop's 
palace is positively magnificent ; in the area before 
it is a fountain, esteemed the largest in Germany. 

I was taken to see another palace, belonging to 
the Archbishop, called Mirabella, where there is 
a beautiful garden: we were told that twenty 
thousand oranges were annually gathered from the 
trees in His Holiness's orangery. The riding-school 
is a noble structure ; the Archbishop was said to 
be particularly fond of horses ; his stud, at the 
time I speak of, consisted of two hundred; his 
income was calculated at half a million sterling. 
The cathedral is a superb building : the inhabitants 
of the city have a most whimsical custom (I 
mean those who have the means of satisfying their 
caprice) ; when in good health and spirits they fix 
on their future burial-places, and having selected 
snug and suitable spots, have their portraits painted, 
and placed over their graves ; to me it seemed as if 
this absurdity could not be surpassed. 

The Archbishop sent one of his attendants to 
invite Signora Storace and her party to hear a 
concert at his palace; we felt ourselves highly 
honoured, and, of course, went. The Archbishop 
was a very fine looking man, particularly galant 
and attentive to the ladies, of whom there was a 



276 REMINISCENCES OF 

splendid show ; it was conceived that he was very 
partial to the English, and English manners. The 
music was chiefly instrumental, admirably per- 
formed ; the band numerous and excellent. 

After the concert we returned to supper at our 
inn, and after supper got into our carriage to 
continue our journey ; but of all the roads I ever 
travelled, the Archbishop's was the worst; I was 
jolted to a jelly, and so initated, that when we got 
to the barrier, and were stopped to have our pass- 
ports examined, I said to the centinel, " Comrade, 
it would be much better if your Archbishop, instead 
of spending so much money upon music, would 
appropriate part of it to mending his ways. 1 ' This 
ill-timed observation, which I confess was rather 
ungracious on my part, did not seem to please the 
centinel ; however, he let us pass, merely mutter- 
ing, that the English had more money than man- 
ners. Stephen Storace, in a well-timed moment, 
slipped a florin into his hand, which soothed the 
Cerberus, and made me think, with Macheath. that 
" money, well-timed, and properly applied, will do 
any thing." 

Nothing can exceed the beauty of the country 
between Saltzbourg and Munich; it is rich by 
nature, and highly cultivated. We arrived in due 
time at Munich, the capital of the Electorate of 
Bavaria, and put up at the best inn, where I had 



MICHAEL KELLY. 277 

the pleasure to find Lord Bernard stopping, on his 
way to England. I had been gratified by meeting 
his Lordship at Vienna, where his affability and 
elegance of manner had gained him the esteem and 
respect of those who had the honour of his ac- 
quaintance. As all our party were known to his 
Lordship, he invited us to dine with him ; he 

had an English landau, and travelled with one 
& 

servant only. As he, like ourselves, was going 
to Paris, he proposed that we should all travel 
together, and that he would give a seat in his 
carriage to one of us, " turn and turn about,"" as 

the phrase goes ; we were flattered by the proposal, 

i i . 

and accepted it. 

We agreed to remain at Munich three or four 

o 

days, to see the lions. We went over the Elector's 
palace, a magnificent building, consisting of several 
galleries, furnished superbly, and abounding with 
paintings, statues, &c. &c. ; the chamber of the 
Elector, we were told, cost above one hundred 
thousand pounds : it contained a profusion of velvets, 
gold tissue, and old-fashioned carved work ; the bed 
was immense, groaning with splendour ; the great 
staircase is of marble and gold ; from the garden of 
the palace we were shewn a secret passage, leading 
to the churches and convents of the town. The 
streets are regular and broad, and most of the 
houses painted on the outside ; the market place is 



278 REMINISCENCES OF 

extremely beautiful. We were taken to see the 
Niemptenburg palace. The gardens are laid out 
with great taste ; in one of the avenues, I remem- 
ber Attwood and myself ran a race, and I won it ; 
at that time I was as light as a feathered mer- 
cury ; but alas ! " non sum quails eram" 

The country around this spot is pretty, and the 
public baths excellent. The Storaces and myself, by 
appointment, went to pay our respects to Raff, the 
justly celebrated tenor, esteemed by far the finest 
singer of his day, and for many years the delight 
of Naples and Palermo. He was by birth a Bava- 
rian, and had retired to Munich with an ample 
fortune; he was past seventy, and did us the 
favour to sing to us his famous song, composed by 
Bach, " Non so donde vlene ," though his voice 
was impaired, he still retained his fine voce di 
petto and sostenuto notes, and pure style of 
singing. 

While staying at Munich, we were asked to 
assist at a grand concert, at which the Elector, the 
Electress, and their Court were present ; the band 
consisted of several eminent performers, among 
whom was the famous violin player, Frantzl, who 
performed a concerto in a masterly manner ; and a 
most excellent female singer of the name of Dussek ; 
and the next morning we set off for Augsbourg. 

Lord Bernard's avant-courier was taken so ill 



MICHAEL KELLY. 279 

that he was obliged to remain at Munich, and 
another could not at the moment be procured ; 
it was agreed that we should, bv turns, mount a 

O %/ 

post-horse, and ride on before the carriages to the 
post-house, and get horses ready, without which 
precaution we might have been frequently detained 
on the road. I thought it a pleasant arrange- 
ment, although we travelled always in the night. 

We arrived at Augsbcurg early in the morning, 
and intended to pass the day there. There seemed 
to be a swarm of Israelites in this old town, which 
is renowned for wig-makers, pits, water-works, and 
dancing ladies, who are by no means scrupulous on 
the point of exhibiting their legs. It being Sunday, 
we did not visit their sulphureous water-works, 
but looked in at one of the balls which are given 
every Sunday evening, where were some very 
prettily-dressed servant girls, labouring assiduously 
at the dance, accompanied by a dulcimer, a violin, 
pipe, and tabor. Having gratified our curiosity 
by this exhibition, we set off for Ulm, in which 
there is nothing very remarkable, except its cathe- 
dral. From Ulm, Storace and her mother, accom- 
panied by his Lordship, went straight on to Stras- 
bourg, where they agreed to wait for Stephen, 
Attwood, and myself. 

Previous to his going to Vienna, my friend Att- 
wood had been staying at a friend's house at Stut- 



280 REMINISCENCES OF 

gard, and wished to spend a couple of days with 
him on his return ; Stephen and I agreed to accom- 
pany him ; but, in the execution of the design, we 
lost our way in the Black Forest : we were driven byi rn 

/ 

a lad, the deputy assistant ostler at the inn where we 
had changed horses, all the regular post-boys being 
unluckily out of the way ; the poor fellow was unif: 
acquainted with the road, the night was dark, and, 
considering the place we were in (famous for banditti), 
our situation was not the most enviable in the world. 
We wandered on, we knew not where, for sonu 
hours ; at last we saw a distant light ; we dismounted, 
and walked across the forest towards it, the carriage 
slowly following; at length we got to a gate, at 
which we knocked ; a man within asked us what we 
wanted at that time of night. I was the spokesman, 
and, in bad German, said, " We were English tra- 
vellers, who had lost our way, and were benighted 
in the forest." The young man immediately opened 
the gate, and invited us in, and told us he was sure 
his mother would make us welcome. 

We were ushered into a large parlour, where was 
seated, in an arm-chair, an elderly lady, with eight 
of her grandchildren, placed round a supper table ; 
she gave us a most hospitable reception, told us we 
had strayed widely from the right road, made us sit 
down and partake of her supper, which consisted of 
some cold roasted veal, chickens, salad, and an excel- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 281 

lent omelet, and gave us some of the finest old hock 
I ever tasted. She said she was very happy in ad- 
ministering to our comforts, for she had a high re- 
spect for the English. She was a very agreeable old 
lady, and her charming family very attentive. She 
insisted upon sitting up with us until day-break, as 
she could not accommodate us with beds, and told 
us, that her eldest son should accompany us to the 
next post town, on the road to Stutgard. 

In the morning we took leave of her, and changed 
horses at the next stage the country around Stut- 
gard is very picturesque ; at the entrance to the city 
we were impeded by an immense crowd of people, 
chiefly military, attending the funeral of a field mar- 
shal. The ceremony was grand and impressive. 

Upon making inquiries in the place, we found that, 
as the reigning Duke of Wirtemberg was absent on 
a visit to the King of Prussia, the theatre was closed ; 
but in the morning I went to look at the stage, on 
which had been exhibited the most magnificent and 

o 

splendid spectacles ever produced : indeed, it has 
been said, that the expense of this very theatre was 
so great that it materially injured the finances of the 
Sovereign, and that he was obliged to relinquish it : 
at one period, the Italian opera flourished at Stut- 
gard more than at any court in Europe. The first 
soprano singer was the celebrated Cafarelli ; for its 
tenor singer, the Cavaliere Hectore ; and the prima 



REMINISCENCES OF 

donna, the great Gabrielli ; Jomelli, Hasse, and 
Graun, the composers ; with a corresponding orches- 
tra, culled from all parts of Germany and Italy. 
The ballets were magnificent ; the ballet-master, the 
celebrated Noverre ; it was on this stage he produced 
his Armida, and Jason and Medea ; the expense for 
the production of which, in scenery, machinery, and 
decorations, was said to be enormous : the elder 
Vestris, Le Picque, Duberval, and the first dancers 
from Paris were engaged ; and the whole together 
formed a theatrical exhibition perfectly unique ; but 
it was, I have before said, found necessary to put a 
stop to their gaiety. 

Having seen what was to be seen at Stutgard, we 
proceeded on our journey ; and barring bad roads, 
lazy post-boys, vile horses, wretched inns, and two 
or three overturns, our journey was pleasant enough ; 
at length we found ourselves at the gates of Stras- 
burg, renowned for its savory and goose-liver pies, 
and at the Hotel de TEmpereur we found Storace 
and her party waiting for us ; we sat down to an ex- 
cellent dejeuner a lajburchette, quite happy at being 
released from our bone-setter : we remained two 
days at Strasburg, and liked it much. 

One evening we went to a concert, which was 
crowded with military men and beautiful women, 
where I had the pleasure of being introduced to the 
justly popular composer, Pleyel ; he was engaged as 



MICHAEL KELLY. 283 

director of the concerts ; he came to the hotel and 
supped with us, and seemed delighted to hear that 
we had left his old master Haydn in good health 
and spirits. In the morning I went with him to the 
top of the spire of the cathedral, reckoned the highest 
in Europe ; a foolish fellow, a week before, disap- 
pointed and crossed in love, had thrown himself 
from the top of it, and been dashed to pieces. In 
the body of the church, lie the remains of the 
famous Marshal Saxe, to whose memory there is a 
fine monument ; and its clock -is a curious piece of 
machinery. 

In the evening I heard the celebrated French 
actress and comic singer, Madame Dugazzon, who 
sang the popular ballad of " Monbon Andre, mon 
cher Andre," charmingly. The house literally over- 
flowed with elegant company. Next day we set off 
for Nancy, the last stage of our journey ; Storace 
and myself having ridden forward to order break- 
fast, came to a place where four roads met : which 
was the right one we knew not ; I luckily thought 
of the expedient of throwing the reins over our 
horses' necks, and, as I foresaw, they mechanically 
brought us safe and sound into Nancy, which I 
thought a very pretty town. 

The country all through Champagne is delight- 
fully cultivated and picturesque ; nothing, however, 
happened worth noticing until we reached Paris, 



284 REMINISCENCES OF 

where we took up our quarters at an hotel in the 
Faubourg St. Germain, at that time the most fa- 
shionable part of the town, and generally frequented 
by the English. We remained there a few days, 
and I believe saw every thing worth seeing, visited 
Versailles, and saw the King and Queen, and the 
royal family, dine in public, apparently adored by 
the populace. 

At that time there existed a ceremony, to which 
all foreigners were obliged to submit ; I mean, that 
of being actually compelled to receive the chaste 
salutes of the dames de la lialle (fish women), who 
besieged, in those days, the residences of strangers, 
and presented them with nosegays, nor would they 
quit their post until they had obtained both money 
and kisses; but, I must say,that these amatory ad- 
vances were to me a horrid nuisance. 

My object, while in Paris, was to see all the thea- 
tres, and I therefore visited one or other of them 
every evening. I went, first, to the grand opera, 
and was delighted with the magnificence of the 
scenery, decorations, and dresses, and, above all, 
with their choruses ; in that department they de- 
cidedly bear away the palm from every other country 1 
the orchestra was most . minutely attended to, and 
more numerous than even that of San Carlo at 
Naples : but the principal singers (God save them) 
made a shriek louder than I thought any human 



MICHAEL KELLY. 285 

beings capable of producing. The opera was Gluck^s 
Iphigenia, which we had performed at Vienna ; but 
for decorations and effect, Paris beat us out of the 
field. The chorus and procession, where Pylades 
and Orestes in chains, were dragged on by Gardel, 
Vestris, and a host of first-rate dancers, were beyond 
any thing I could have conceived. I went the next 
night to the same theatre, and saw the first repre- 
sentation of the grand serious opera of " CEdipe a 
Colon ;" the music by Sacchini, was delightful and 
enchanting. I there heard, for the first time, the 
celebrated bass singer, Cheron, who played the part 
of CEdipe, and sang in a delightful style ; it was 
quite different from the performance of the night 
before, indeed I could scarcely imagine myself in the 
same theatre. I saw, too, the opera of Phedra, and 
had great pleasure in seeing Madame St. Auberti 
perform the part of Phedra ; she was a great actress, 
and when she sang in a deml voice, was quite charm- 
ing. This unfortunate lady and accomplished ac- 
tress subsequently married, and with her husband, 
the Count (TEntraigues, was robbed and murdered 
by their servant when in England. 

In this opera I felt much gratified by hearing 
Monsieur Lais, possessing a fine baritone voice, 
with much taste and expression ; but his greatest 
praise, in my opinion, was, that he was very unlike 
a French singer. The next theatre I visited, was 



286 REMINISCENCES OF 

the Francais. Their great tragedians, at the time, 
were on leave of absence in the provinces ; I had 
not, therefore, an opportunity of seeing a tragedy, 
but I was amply compensated by their excellent 
comedians ; their comic acting is always natural. I 
saw Mole act the part of Duretete, in Farquhar's 
Inconstant, admirably. Fleury was inimitable in 
Le Pupile (the guardian) ; and Madame Contare 
in Susan, Beaumarchais" Marriage of Figaro, exqui- 
site. Dugazzon was a fine low comedian ; indeed, 
I thought all the actors good ; but my favourite 
theatre of all was the Theatre Italien, in the Rue 
Favart, where French comic operas were performed ; 
the orchestra was very good, and the actors and 
singers equally so, a Mademoiselle Renard had a 
most delightful voice, and was a sweet singer. 

I saw there " Richard Coeur de Lion,"" and en- 
joyed its charming music. I thought it always 
Gretry^s masterpiece. Clairval, the original Blon- 
del, gave the air of " O Richard ! O mon Roi !" 
with great expression. His acting in the scene 
when he heard the voice of Richard from the prison, 
was electrifying : his joy, his surprise, at having 
found his king, the trembling of his voice, his scram- 
bling up the tree to let Richard hear his voice, and 
the expression altogether, made an impression on me 
that never can be effaced ; and while I remained at 
Paris, I never missed going to see him. Monsieur 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

Philippe played Richard remarkably well, and gave 
the bravura air, " LTunivers que j'ai perdu," with 
great skill and animation. 

Having, at length, satisfied our curiosity at Paris, 
we took our departure, and never halted until we 
got to Boulogne ; when we arrived there, we went 
to the hotel kept then by Mrs. Knowles (now Par- 
ker's), and a very good house iwas. The old lady 
herself went over with us in the packet to Dover : 
in it also was Pilon, who wrote " The Fair Ameri- 
can," and " He would be a Soldier;" a thoughtless, 
extravagant, hair-brained fellow, who had been a 
long time at Boulogne, where he had been much 

o o ' 

noticed by the principal people. When we got in 
sight of Shakspeare's Cliff, he expressed his surprise 
at Shakspeare's referring to it as particularly high, 
and found great fault with our immortal bard^s 
judgment of altitude, and with the spot itself, which 
he considered wholly unworthy of his notice. We 
landed at Dover, and went to the York Hotel, and 
agreed to dine together, and travel to London the 
next day. 

After dinner we went to the custom-house, in 
order to have our trunks examined ; but poor 
Pilon had, in the hurry of leaving Boulogne, left 
his trunk behind him : he seemed absolutely para- 
lyzed with horror ; and told us, on our return to 
the inn, that he must set off to Boulogne in the 

* 



288 REMINISCENCES OF 

packet which was to sail that night, and get his 
trunk at all hazards. We thought it particularly 
silly for him to do so, especially as he suffered 
greatly from sea-sickness, and there was a stiffish 
breeze blowing. We advised him to dispatch a 
messenger for it, but all would not do ; he persisted 
in going himself, and took such copious draughts of 
hot brandy and water, that the poet's head became 
considerably confused. 

At length, as the effects of his numerous pota- 
tions became more powerful, he opened his heart 
to us; "Gad, my friends," said he, "if I don't 
get my trunk, I shall be ruined, it will be opened, 
and in it will be found the bitterest satire I 
could write, upon all the people with whom, and 
upon whom I have been living, during the whole 
of my stay at Boulogne ; and if they should see it 
or hear of it, I shall never be able to shew my face 
amongst them again." 11 At midnight the packet 
sailed, and in it the grateful playwright, in order to 
save his reputation. 

We, having neither written lampoons, nor 
left our trunks behind us, set off in the morn- 
ing, breakfasted at Canterbury, and dined at 
Rochester, and an unlucky dinner it was for 
me ; I had purchased some prints and trinkets 
at Paris, which, by the aid of the steward of 
the packet, I got safe across the water ; and on 



MICHAEL KELLY. 289 

leaving Dover, I had them packed in the bottom 
of the chaise, and fancied them quite secure ; but 
no 9 a lynx-eyed custom-house officer, of the name 
of Tancred, while we were at dinner, stepped into 
the chaise, and spoiled me of my smuggled purchases. 
I strove to bribe, but the hard-hearted searcher 
was inexorable; and I was obliged to submit to 
the laws of my country, which, at the time, I 
thought very hard : however, cares were but trifles 
then, and I laughed away the loss ; and on the 
18th of March, 1787, arrived in London for the 
first time in my life. On the same evening, Ste- 
phen Storace and myself called upon Mr. Linley 
at his house in Norfolk Street in the Strand, where 
I found his accomplished daughters, Mrs. Sheridan 
and Mrs. Tickell. Mrs. Sheridan asked me if I had 
seen " Richard Coeur de Lion," in Paris ; and on 
my telling her that I had, only four evenings 
before, she requested me to go and see it at Drury 
Lane that evening, as she was most anxious to 
know my opinion of the relative merits of the 
French and English pieces. General Burgoyne had 
translated it,- and Mrs. Sheridan adapted it to the 
English stage. 

I and Storace, accompanied by a young gentle- 
man, set off for the theatre, but the piece was 
nearly half over. I must premise, that I was then 
totally uninformed as regarded the actors and 

VOL. i. o 



290 REMINISCENCES OF 

actresses at Drury Lane. Just as we entered the 
boxes, Richard was singing the romance from his 
prison, most loudly accompanied from behind the 
scenes by two French horns ; I was astonished to 
hear an accompaniment so completely at variance 
with the intention of the composer, and which 
entirely spoiled the effect of the melody, nor did I 
think much of the vocal powers of the royal cap- 
tive; and turning to Storace, said, "If His Ma- 
jesty is the first and best singer in your theatre, 
I shall not fear to appear as his competitor for 
public favour." Storace laughed, and told me that 
the gentleman who upon that special occasion was 
singing, was Mr. John Kemble, the celebrated 
tragedian, who, to serve the proprietors, had under- 
taken to perform the part of Richard, as there was 
no singer at the theatre capable of representing 
it. However, as I was not gifted with intuition, 
my mistaking him for the principal vocalist of the 
theatre was natural enough, having a few days back 
seen Philippe, the first singer at the French theatre, 
perform the same part. 

My friend Kemble laughed heartily when he was 
told that I had mistaken him for the Drury Lane 
Orpheus. By the way, I heard that when Kemble 
was rehearsing the romance, sung by Richard, Shaw, 
the leader of the band, called out from the orchestra, 
" Mr, Kemble, my dear Mr. Kemble, you are mur- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 291 

dering time."" Kemble, calmly and coolly taking 
a pinch of snuff, said, " My dear Sir, it is better for 
me to murder time at once, than be continually 
beating him as you do." 

Mrs. Jordan's acting in this drama was delightful, 
and the Laurette of Mrs. Crouch most interesting. 
I was struck with admiration of her wonderful 
beauty, and delighted to hear that she was to be 
my prima donna in the opera in which I was to 
perform. She seemed to me to aggregate in herself, 
like the Venus of Apelles, all that was exquisite 
and charming. I agreed with Mr. Linley for the 
remainder of the season at Drury Lane, and to 
make my debut in the part of Lionel, on Friday, 
the 20th of April, 1787. 

There were oratorios performing at Drury Lane, 
under the united management of Mr. Linley, 
Doctor Arnold, and Madame Mara, who were 
joint proprietors. One evening, after the first act 
of the oratorio, I went into the green-room, where, 
amongst other ladies, was Madame Mara, to whom 
I had never spoken. Doctor Arnold said, " Pray, 
Mr. Kelly, tell us what sort of a singer is Signora 
Storace ?" I replied that, in my opinion she was 
the best singer in Europe. I meant, of course, 
in her line ; but, as it proved afterwards, Madame 
Mara was highly offended at the praise which 
I had given to my friend, and said to a lady, 



EEMINISCENCES OF 

when I quitted the green-room, that I was an 
impertinent coxcomb. I then knew nothing of 
Madame Mara, nor at that time valued her 
good opinion ; however, she carried her resent- 
ment so far against me, that she afterwards 
declared she would not sing where I did, if she 
could avoid it. 

In selecting the opera of Lionel and Clarissa for 
my first appearance, I was guided in my choice 
by the circumstance of knowing all the songs, 
which, besides, were much in my style of singing. 
When the opera was produced, I sang all the 
original music, and introduced an Italian air of 
Sard's, with English words, written for me by 
Mr. Richard Tick ell, brother-in-law to Mr. She- 
ridan ; and a duet, written by the well-known Doctor 
Lawrence, the civilian. I composed the melody, 
and Stephen Storace put the instrumental parts to 
it. This duet was his first introduction to Drury 
Lane theatre. That eminent actor, King, who 
had been a friend of my father's in Dublin many 
years before, took a great deal of pains to instruct 
me in the dialogue of the part. To Mr. Linley I 
was also much indebted for his able tuition, and 
from all the performers I experienced the most kind 
and friendly attentions. 

At the time of my debut, my friend Jack John- 
stone was engaged at Covent Garden as fijrst singer. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 293 

I saw him play Young Meadows, in " Love in a 
Village;" he acted the part, well, and sang the 
songs with good taste, and a peculiarly fine falsetto 
voice. Mrs. Billington was the Rosetta. I thought 
her an angel in beauty, and the Saint Cecilia of 
song. 

I remember one day, shortly after my first 
appearance, dining with my friend Jack Johnstone, 
in Great Russell-street, I met an eccentric Irish- 
man, well known in Dublin, of the name of Long 
who was, by turns, an auctioneer and dramatist ; 
he wrote a play called " The Laplanders," which 
was, at first, very coolly received by the audience, 
and afterwards very warmly condemned. He came 
to England to propose to Government a plan for 
paying oft* the national debt, or some such thing. 
He was, however, full of anecdote, and had a happy 
knack of telling stories against himself; one, I 
recollect, was, that, in his auctioneering capacity, 
amongst other schemes, he offered for sale, woollen 
cloths at a farthing a yard ; yet, so completely was 
his character known, and so well appreciated, that 
he could not advance a bidding even upon that 
price. At one time, he told us his patience was 
actually worn out ; and, in anger towards his audi- 
tory, he said he thought they would treat him with 
the same inattention, if he were to offer a guinea 
for sale.* He then literally took a guinea out of 



294 REMINISCENCES OF 

his pocket, and put it up; there were certainly 
advances, shilling by shilling, until it reached 
seventeen shillings and sixpence, at which price he 
knocked it down, and, handing it to the buyer, 
wished him luck of the bargain ; the purchaser 
went immediately to try the value of his lot, when 
it appeared, being weighed, to be of eighteen pence 
less value than he had paid for it. 

He mentioned another anecdote of a Mr. Lennan, 
a saddler in Dublin, who was seriously stage- 
stricken, and volunteered to act Major O'Flaherty, 
in which he was execrable; after this was over, 
however, he exhibited himself at the Cockle Club, 
where the facetious Isaac Sparks presided, and 
Jack Long was vice-president: they made him 
extremely tipsy, and then gave him in charge to 
the watch for having murdered Major OTlaherty, 
and left the poor saddler all night in durance vile, 
who afterwards stuck to making saddles, aod never 
again was found guilty of murdering majors, even 
on the stage. 

1 had the pleasure also to be introduced to my 
worthy countryman, the Reverend Father O'Leary, 
the well-known Roman Catholic Priest ; he was a 
man of infinite wit, of instructive and amusing 
conversation. I felt highly honoured by the notice 
of this pillar of the Roman Church ; our tastes were 
congenial, for his Reverence was mighty fond of 



MICHAEL KELLY. 295 

whiskey punch, and so was / ; and many a jug of 
St. Patrick's eye- water, night after night, did his 
Reverence and myself enjoy, chatting over that 
exhilirating and national beverage. He sometimes 
favoured me with his company at dinner ; when 
he did, I always had a corned shoulder of mutton 
for him, for he, like some others of his countrymen, 
who shall be nameless, was ravenously fond of that 
dish. 

One day, the facetious John Philpot Curran, who 
was also very partial to the said corned mutton, 
did me the honour to meet him. To enjoy the 
society of such men was an intellectual treat. They 
were great friends, and seemed to have a mutual 
respect for each other's talents ; and, as it may easily 
be imagined, O'Leary versus Curran, was no bad 
match. 

One day, after dinner, Curran said to him, 

" Reverend Father, I wish you were Saint Peter. 11 
" And why, Counsellor, would you wish that I 

were Saint Peter ?" asked O'Leary. 

" Because, Reverend Father, in that case," said 

Curran, " you would have the keys of Heaven, and 

you could let me in." 

" By my honour and conscience, Counsellor," 

replied the Divine, " it would be better for yon that 

I had the keys of the other place, for then I could 

let you out." 



296 REMINISCENCES OF 

Curran enjoyed the joke, which he admitted had 
a good deal of justice in it. 

CTLeary told us of the whimsical triumph which 
he once enjoyed over Dr. Johnson. CVLeary was 
very anxious to be introduced to that learned man, 
and Mr. Murphy took him one morning to the 
Doctor's lodgings. On his entering the room, the 
Doctor viewed him from top to toe, without 
taking any notice of him ; at length, darting one of 
his sourest looks at him, he spoke to him in the 
Hebrew language, to which O'Leary made no 
reply. Upon which the Doctor said to him, " Why 
do you not answer me, Sir ?" 

" Faith, Sir," said O'Leary, " I cannot reply to 
you, because I do not understand the language in 
which you are addressing me." 

Upon this the Doctor, with a contemptuous 
sneer, said to Murphy, " Why, Sir, this is a pretty 
fellow you have brought hither; Sir, he does not 
comprehend the primitive language."" 

(TLeary immediately bowed very low, and com- 
plimented the Doctor with a long speech in Irish, 
of which the Doctor, not understanding a word, 
made no reply, but looked at Murphy. O'Leary, 
seeing that the Doctor was puzzled at hearing a 
language of which he was ignorant, said to Murphy, 
pointing to the Doctor, " This is a pretty fellow to 
whom you have brought me ; Sir, he does not 



MICHAEL KELLY. 297 

understand the language of the sister kingdom."" 
The Reverend Padre then made the Doctor a 
1.3W bow, and quitted the room. 

At the time when I met Jack Long, I was 
in the highest spirits ; I had played Lionel, and 
been received with all the kindness and indulgence 
with which a British audience invariably encourages 
a new performer, and I had been successful beyond 
my warmest hopes. 

On the folio wing Tuesday, (the 24th,) I remember 
I went to the Opera House to see my friend 
Signora Storace make her first appearance, and 
was much gratified at her enthusiastic reception. 
The opera was Paesiello's " Schiavi per Amore." 
The whole of the music of this charming opera buffa 
is delightful. The opening of it is a masterpiece 
of harmony, and was warmly applauded by His 
Royal Highness the Prince of Wales, who honoured 
the theatre with his presence, and was in the 
house before the commencement of the opera. 
Amongst the audience were the late Duke of Cum- 
berland (in the pit), and the Duchess (in her box,) 
with the present Marquis of Conyngham. The 
" Schiavi per Amore" was a great favourite for the 
remainder of the season. 

While my friend Storace was earning laurels 
in the Haymarket, I was most kindly treated at 
Drury Lane. My performance which succeeded 

o5 



298 REMINISCENCES OF 

Lionel, was that of Young Meadows, in " Love 
in a Village." In addition to the original songs, I 
introduced one of Gluck's, to which Mrs. Sheri- 
dan did me the honour to write English words, 
" Love, thcu maddening power ;" this was a great 
favourite, as also the duet, " Each joy in thee 
possessing," both of which were always encored. 

Daly, the patentee of the Theatre Royal, in 
Crow Street, sent over an offer of an engagement 
to perform at his theatre, with Mrs. Crouch, for 
twelve nights ; the terms I demanded, and which 
were acceded to, were to share the house with Mr. 
Daly, he first deducting fifty pounds per night for 
his expenses; and the thirteenth night I was to 
have a benefit clear of all expenses. 

It was during the summer of this year, that the 
commemoration of Handel took place. The last 
grand performances given at Westminster Abbey 
were on the 28th and 31st of May, the 1st and 4th 
of June : upon those four mornings, I sang there, 
but to give an idea of the effect of that magnificent 
festival is far beyond my power; indeed, it has 
already been described most elaborately by those 
more competent to the task. I can only endeavour 
to express the effect which it produced on me. When 
I first heard the chorus of the Hallelujah, in the 
" Messiah," and " For unto us a child is born," my 
blood thrilled with rapturous delight it was sublime ; 






MICHAEL KELLY. 299 

it was, in the inspired words of the chorus, " Won- 
derful." The orchestra was led by the Cramers ;' 
the conductors were Joah Bates, Esq. father of the 
present secretary of the Tax Office, Drs. Arnold 
and Dupuis. The band consisted of several hunj 
dreds of performers. The singers were Madame 
Mara, Storace, Miss Abrams, Miss Poole, Rubinelli, 
Harrison, Bartleman, Sale, Parry, Norris, myself, 
&c. and the choruses were collected from all parts 
of England, amounting to hundreds of voices. 

The King, Queen, and all the royal family sat 
opposite the orchestra ; the body of the church, the 
galleries, and every corner crowded with beauty, 
rank, and fashion : such was the rage to procure 
seats, that ladies had their hair dressed the night 
previous, to be ready to get to the Abbey in good 
time. The performers unanimously exerted their 
great talents to admiration; but what made an 
everlasting impression on me was, the powerful 
effect produced by Madame Mara, in the sublime 
recitative, " Sing ye to the Lord, for he hath 
triumphed gloriously ;" in that 

Her voice was heard around, 

Loud as a trumpet with a silver sound. 

I have often sung with her the recitative tenor part, 
"And Miriam the Prophetess took a timbrel in 



300 REMINISCENCES OP 

her hand;" and never heard her but with increased 
delight. 

No place could be more appropriate to give 
effect to the divine strains of Handel, than the 
spacious Abbey. His Majesty 's partiality for Han- 
deFs music was generally spoken of ; but I believe 
it was not universally known what an excellent 
and accurate judge he was of its merits. The fine 
chorus of " Lift up your heads, O ye gates," was 
always given in full chorus, and indeed intended 
to be so given by Handel. The King suggested 
that the first part of it should be made a semi- 
chorus, and sung only by the principal singers ; 
but when it came to the passage, " He is the King 
of Glory !" he commanded that the whole orchestra, 
with the full chorus, should, with a tremendous 
forte, burst out ; the effect produced by the altera- 
tion was awful and sublime. 

A strange coincidence happened at one of the 
performances: the morning, during part of the 
grand selection, was cloudy and lowering; but 
when the grand chorus struck up " Let there be 
light, and light was over all !" the sun burst forth, 
and with its rays illuminated every part of the 
splendid edifice. Every one was struck with the 
coincidence, and the effect produced by it. 

About this time I received the melancholy news 
of my poor mother's death ; she had died a few 



MICHAEL KELLY. 301 

weeks before, but the event had not been divulged 
to me : however, I was anxious to see my father 
and family, and set off for Dublin, the 8th of June, 
having previously entered into an engagement with 
the proprietors of Drury Lane for the ensuing 
season, stipulating not to perform more than three 
times a week. Mr. and Mrs. Crouch and myself 
hired a travelling carriage, had a most pleasant 
journey, and I arrived in Dublin on the 12th of 
June, at my father's house in Abbey Street. Mr. 
and Mrs. Crouch went to lodgings taken for them 
in College Green. 

My father was, of course, delighted to see me, 
and I equally so to see him ; for the lapse of so 
many years had made no alteration in my affection 
for him. I was most happy to see my sister, and my 
brothers, Joe and Mark ; and on the 22nd made my 
first appearance in Lionel, to a crowded house* 
my reception was highly gratifying, and the plau- 
dits I received from my warm-hearted countrymen, 
and in my native city, were ever most congenial 
to my feelings. 

During my twelve nights' performance, I never 
shared less, upon an average, than fifty pounds 
per night ; my benefit, a clear one, overflowed in 
every part, and the greater part of the pit was 
railed into boxes : two of our nights' performances 
were by the command of his Grace the Duke of 



302 REMINISCENCES OF 

Rutland, then the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, who 
was accompanied to the theatre by his Duchess, a 
most beautiful woman. Holman was then acting 
in Dublin ; the Masque of Comus was got up ; he 
played Comus, I, the principal Bacchanal, and sang, 
" Now Phoebus sinketh in the West," and all the 
principal songs. Mrs. Crouch was the Euphrosyne, 
and looked as loVely as if she had been bathed in 
the fountain of the Graces ; her acting in the song 
of " The Wanton God," and singing " Would ye 
taste the noontide air ?" and " Sweet echo," were 
indeed a treat. 

It struck me that there was a good oppor- 
tunity to introduce, in the first act of the 
Masque, between the principal Bacchanal and 
Bacchante, a duet ; and I fixed upon the celebrated 
Italian duet of Martini, " Pace, cara mia sposa," 
which created a great sensation at Vienna, but 
much greater in Dublin. The English words put to 
it, " Oh, thou wert born to please me," were very 
good, and chimed in well with the scene ; no piece 
of music ever produced a greater effect ; it was al- 
ways called for three times, and no performance was 
allowed to go on in which it was not introduced ; 
it was sung about the streets by the ballad-singers, 
and parodied by the news-boys, who used to sing 
to each other, " Oh thou wert born to tease me, 
my life, my only love ;" in short, it was completely 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

the rage all over Ireland, England, and Scotland, 
for many, many years. 

During my engagement in Dublin, I passed 
many happy days in the delightful and hos- 
pitable society of numerous and kind friends. 
We took frequent excursions to Clontarf, Black 
Rock, Dunleary, Hill of Howth, and the Dargle, 
an enchanting spot. At Bray there was an inn, 
where every accommodation could be had ; the 
red trout are delicious; and at Lord Powers- 
court's place, the Dargle, the views are beautiful 
and picturesque, bearing a strong resemblance 
to many parts of Sicily, particularly about the 
environs of Palermo. However, these joys, like 
all others, were but transitory ; and, in due time, 
I finished my profitable and pleasant engage- 
ment in Dublin, and sailed for Holyhead, on our 
way to the York theatre, where Mrs. Crouch and 
myself were engaged by the eccentric Tate Wil- 
kinson, its proprietor, to perform during the race 
week. Mrs. Crouch was perfectly acquainted 
with the eccentricities of Tate, and told us many 
anecdotes of him ; he was a great epicure, very 
fond of French cookery, and small dishes ; large 
joints he never allowed to come to his table, 
and above all, had the most sovereign contempt 
for a round of beef ; hearing this, it came into my 




304 REMINISCENCES OF 

head to play him a trick, and I got Mr. and Mrs. 
Crouch to aid me in my frolic. 

We got to the inn at York just at supper time. 
I saw in the larder a huge round of beef ; I ordered 
it up, and had it put on the table before me ; I 
pulled off my coat and waistcoat, and tucked up 
the sleeves of my shirt, unbuttoned my collar, took 
off my cravat, and put on a red woollen night-cap ; 
thus disrobed, and with a large carving-knife in my 
hand, I was gazing with seeming delight on the 
round of beef, at the moment Manager Wilkinson, 
to whom Mrs. Crouch had previously sent, entered 
the house. He had never seen me ; he went up to 
Mrs. Crouch, and congratulated her on her arrival 
in York: turning from her, he espied me, and 
starting back, exclaimed, " Ugh ! Ma'am, who is 
that, with the enormous round of beef before him ! 
How the devil came he here, Ma'am ?" Mrs. 
Crouch said, with a serious countenance, " That is 
Mr. Kelly, whom you have engaged to sing with me. 1 " 

" What, that figure !" said Tate, " What, that 
my Lord Aimworth, my Lionel, my Young 
Meadows ! Ugh ! send him away, Ma'am ! send 
him back to Drury Lane ! send him to Vienna ! I 
never can produce such a thing as that to a York 
audience, Ma'am." 

While he was abusing the bad taste of the Drury 




MICHAEL KELLY. 305 

Lane managers and those of Vienna, I slipped out 
of the room, dressed myself, and in proprid persona, 
was introduced to Tate, who participated in the 
j oke, and laughed heartily ; and ever after we were 
the greatest friends. 

On the 22nd of August we began our engage- 
ment, with Lionel and Clarissa. Tate was the 
Colonel Oldboy, and Mr. Betterton (Mrs. Glover's 
father), Jessamy: being the race week, York was 
crowded with company, and the theatre always full. 
This was the first place at which I saw Miss Farren, 
who was then on a visit to Sir William and Lady 
Milner. My worthy friend, that excellent actor, 
Fawcett, then belonged to the York theatre, and 
was the Douglas of the company. 

The week after the races Mrs. Crouch took her 
benefit, a great house ; Mrs. Crouch played Clara, 
and I Carlos, with Comus ; our duet, "Oh, thou 
wert born to please me," was wonderfully well re- 
ceived. On Wednesday, the 29th, we commenced 
a four nights' engagement at Leeds, in the " Maid 
of the Mill ;" Patty, Mrs. Crouch ; Lord Aim worth 
by myself. " Love in a Village," " The Duenna," 
and " Lionel and Clarissa, to excellent houses. 

Wilkinson proposed to u to perform four nights 
more at Wakefield, to which we consented ; we 
arrived there on Wednesday, the 5th of September, 
and appeared in " Love in a Village ;" the house 



806 REMINISCENCES OF 

was thinly attended, but in the stage-box sat a 
lady, who made such a terrible noise, throwing 
herself into all kinds of attitudes, indulging ever 
and anon in horrid laughing, that she disconcerted 
every person who came upon the stage ; but, above 
all, I in particular appeared to be the object of her 
ridicule, and I confess I felt extremely hurt at her 
pointed rudeness. 

In the third act, when Young Meadows resumes 
his real character, and comes into the garden to 
meet Rosetta, I took out my watch to look at the 
hour, and sang, <c I wonder this girl does not come;" 
the fat lady in the stage-box instantly set off in a 
horse laugh, and said to those around her, loud 
enough to be heard in the gallery, " Why, look 
there ; la ! the fellow has got a watch."" 

I could not bear this ; I admit I lost my temper ; 
but I walked up to the box, and said, " Yes, 
Madam, it is a gold watch, and reckoned one of 
the best in England," putting it close to her ; my 
friend Fawcett was standing at the side of the stage 
at the time, and often since has spoken of it : the 
lady was violently hissed, and ever after, when she 
came to the theatre, conducted herself with becom- 
ing decency. The same lady, I was told, behaved 
one night so rudely to Mr. John Kemble, that he 
was obliged to address her from the stage, and say 
that he could not proceed with his part unless she 



MICHAEL KELLY. SOT 

would cease interrupting him with her noise ; the 
audience insisted on her leaving the box ; a party of 
her friends took her part, and wanted Kemble to 
apologise to her, which he refused to do, and left 
the theatre. 

Our four nights ended; we consented to play, 
one night more, by the express desire of the Earl 
of Scarborough, who, during our stay in York- 
shire, shewed us many marks of polite attention. 
On the 12th of September we left Wakefield, to 
commence the winter campaign on the 15th at Old 
Drury ; and on the 23rd of September, 1787, Mr. 
Linley revived his musical piece of " Selima and 
Azor," with splendid scenery and decorations. 
Mrs. Crouch was inimitable in Selima she looked 
and acted the character to admiration, and sang 
the favourite rondo of u No flower that blows, is 
like the rose," in a manner to secure a nightly 
encore. 

The music, though in a different style from 
Gretry's, so renowned all over the Continent, was 
very appropriate and pleasing. One night, during 
its run, I went to the Italian Opera House ; it was 
a dreadful stormy night, and rained incessantly. I 
was lucky enough to get a hackney coach, and 
while waiting for its drawing up to the door, I 
heard two very handsome young women lamenting 
that they could procure no conveyance : after 



308 REMINISCENCES OF 

apologising for my presumption, I told them that I 
had one in waiting, and should be happy to have 
the pleasure of offering them seats in it, an offer 
which, with many thanks, they accepted. 

We got into the coach, and the coachman was 
directed to drive to John Street, Fitzroy Square ; 
the ladies, naturally enough, began to speak about 
the opera and public places ; amongst other things, 
one of them asked me if I had seen Mr. Kelly, the 
new singer at Drury Lane : I replied, very often. 

" My sister and I went to see him the other 
night," said the young lady, " and we have set 
him down as one of the most affected, conceited 
fellows we ever beheld ; he strutted about the stage 
like a peacock ; and, as to his singing, how an 
audience could applaud it I cannot imagine. Do 
you not think him execrable, Sir ?" 

" Most certainly," said I ; " I have a very mean 
opinion of him." 

" And then the puppy," continued my fair 
friend, " is so ugly, he is a perfect fright. Do 
you not think so, Sir ?" 

" Indeed," said I, " I do not think that, for I 
am rather partial to his personal appearance, and 
like his countenance as well as I do my own but 
pray," continued I, " in what character might you 
have -seen this frightful fellow ?" 

" In Selima and Azor, I think they called it," 



MICHAEL KELLY. 309 

said her sister ; " but we were so tired and dis- 
gusted with it, that we came away at the end of 
the first act." 

" Well, ladies," said I, " if you had stopped 
until the end of the piece, and seen Mr. Kelly with 
his mask off, you would have seen him assume the 
appearance of a < prince, and perhaps not have 
thought him so very frightful. 1 " 

By this time, the coach had reached their door ; 
and returning many thanks for my civility in seeing 
them home, they told me they should be very 
happy, if any morning I would favour them with 
a call, and asked me for my address. I gave it, 
upon which they both actually shrieked with horror, 
and asked a thousand pardons for the rudeness of 
which they had been innocently guilty. I laughed 
heartily at the little contrc temps, and took my leave ; 
but returned the next day, and formed an intimacy 
with them which lasted many years, during which, 
I received the greatest hospitality and kindness 
from them : one of them was the wife of a wealthy 
merchant, the other unmarried, but both were 
charming and agreeable women. 

During this season, Storace introduced me to 
Mr. Cobb, the late secretary to the East India 
Company, who had written two successful farces 
for Drury Lane, " The Humourist," and " The 
First Floor," in which Bannister played admirably. 



310 REMINISCENCES OF 

Cobb was adapting, with Storacc, Baron Ditters- 
dorfs " Doctor and Apothecary," for Drury Lane ; 
they wished to consult me upon the kind of songs 
I should wish to be written for me : we proposed 
to dine together next day, at the Orange Coffee 
House, opposite to the Opera House. I agreed 
to meet Cobb in St. James's Park before dinner ; 
and while we were seated on one of the benches 
(for it was then allowable to sit upon them) we 
were joined by Pilon, whom I had not seen since he 
set off to Boulogne to recover his trunk and his 
satire. He seemed very well acquainted with 
Cobb, and taking him aside, borrowed a couple 
of guineas of him ; he then wished us a good 
morning. In about half an hour afterwards, we 
went to the Orange Coffee House, where we 
saw the borrowing author sitting in a box ; he 
asked leave to join us. We had our dinner and 
wane; and after dinner, Pilon went to the bar, 
and insisted on paying the whole of the bill, with 
the money which, three hours before, he had bor- 
rowed of Cobb ; this of course we would not allow, 
but we had a hearty laugh at the expense of both 
borrower and lender. 

Most of my theatrical readers remember, and 
all have heard, of that exquisite actor, Parsons; 
to him I was particularly partial, and he, I may 
venture to say, was very partial to me. I have 



MICHAEL KELLY. 



311 




repeatedly dined with him, in a band-box of a 
house which he had near the Asylum, at Lambeth ; 

/ 

it was an odd place for an asthmatic comedian to 
live in, for it was opposite a stagnant ditch ; he 
called it Frog Hall. In his little drawing-room 
were several beautiful landscapes, painted by him- 
self; he was reckoned a very good artist. Amongst 
his little peculiarities, was a fondness for fried tripe, 
which almost nightly, after the play, he went to 
enjoy, at an eating-house in Little Russell Street, 
nearly opposite the stage-door of Drury Lane 

heatre, whither I used very often to accompany 
him ; and night after night have we been tete-a-tete 
there. I was anxious to acquire what theatrical 
information I could, and he was very communi- 
cative and full of anecdote. 

One evening I was expressing a wish to see him 
act the character of Corbachio, in " The Fox," as 
it was one of his great parts. 

" Ah," said he, " to see Corbachio acted to per- 
fection, you should have seen Shuter; the public 
are pleased to think that I act that part well, but 
his acting was as far superior to mine, as Mount 
Vesuvius is to a rushlight." 

Parsons, when on the stage with John Palmer 
and James Aickin, used to make it a point to set 
them off laughing, and scarcely ever failed in his 
object. One evening, over our fried tripe, I was 



3152 HEMJNISCENCES OF 

condemning them for indulging their laughing pro- 
pensities on the stage, and said I thought it was 
positively disrespectful to the audience. " For my 
own part," said I, "I enjoy your comicalities and 
humour as much as any one, when in the front of 
the house ; but were I on the stage with you, 
nothing that you could do, w r ould make me so far 
forget the character I was acting, as to indulge in 
misplaced mirth." 

" Do you think so ?" said he ; " well, perhaps 
you are right." 

Five or six nights after this conversation, we 
were acting in " The Doctor and Apothecary." 
I was to sing a song to him, beginning, " This 
marriage article, in every particle, is free from flaw, 
Sir." A full chord was given from the orchestra 
to pitch the key ; just as it was given, and I was 
going to begin the song, he called out to Shaw, 
the leader, " Stop, stop ;" and putting his head 
into my face, and kicking up his heels (a fa- 
vourite action of his) he drove me from one end of 
the stage to the other, crying out all the time, 
" I'll be hanged if you shall ever have any more 
fried tripe, no more fried tripe, no more fried tripe," 
and completely pushed me off the stage. I could 
not resist this unexpected attack, and naturally 
burst out laughing. The audience were in a roar 
of laughter too, for it was enough that he held 

l 







MICHAEL KELLY. 313 

y 

up his finger or his heel to make them laugh. 
When we got off, he said, " I think you must 
own, my serious lad, that I have conquered ;"" 
then taking me by the hand, he dragged me upon 
the stage to the spot whence he had before driven 
me, and looking down into the orchestra, said, 
" Now, Sirs, begin," which they did, and I sang 
my song, which was much applauded ; but the 
audience were, of course, ignorant of the joke of 
the fried tripe, or what he meant by it : however, 
he is gone, poor fellow, and many a pleasant hour 
have I enjoyed in his society. 

In the summer of this year I and Mrs. Crouch 
went to Liverpool, Chester, Manchester, and 
to Worcester races. The theatre there was most 
fashionably attended ; we received much kindness, 
particularly from Mr. Walsh Porter and his lady. 
We took Birmingham for a fortnight in our way 
back, and our trip was pleasant and profitable. 
My leave of absence from Vienna had expired; 
and I had received my "yearly salary punctually, 
from the Secretary to the Austrian Embassy in 
London. I wrote to Prince Rosenberg a respectful 
letter, requesting him to lay before His Majesty * 
the Emperor, my humble duty and grateful thanks 
for the many bounties bestowed upon me ; but that 
my father's state of health, and his wish for me to 
stay in England, induced me to remain there ; 

VOL. i. p 



814 REMINISCENCES OF 

this was rny excuse ; but there were other reasons 
more potent than filial duty for my not return- 
ing to dear Vienna : had I gone, and remained 
ten years, I should have had half my salary for 
the remainder of my life, and have been allowed 
to retire with ease and comfort; but, as his Grace 
of Bedford^ motto sayeth, " Che sara, sara ;"" and 
I cannot be expected now to account for my con- 
duct then. 

The oratorios were this year carried on under 
the direction of Doctor Arnold and Mr. Linlev, 

' ' 

and they wished to engage me ; but Madame Mara, 
who was their great prop, as I have before mentioned, 
had an aversion to my singing wherever she was, for 
reasons before stated ; of course, they were obliged 
to submit to the caprices of the Queen of Song, and 
I cared little about the matter at the time. I went 
one oratorio night into the green room to speak to 
Mrs. Crouch, but the only persons in the room were 
Madame Mara and Monsieur Ponte, first French 
horn player to the King of Prussia, and a very fine 
performer ; he was an intimate friend of Madame 
Mara, and engaged to play a concerto at the oratorio 
that night. He said to Madame Mara in German, 
" My dear friend, my lips are so parched with fear, 
that I am sure I shall not make a sound in the in- 
strument ; I would give the world for a little water 
or beer to moisten my lips. 11 



MICHAEL KELLY. 315 

Madame Mara replied in German, " There is 
nobody here to send ; and yet if I knew where to 
get something for you to drink, I would go myself.' 1 '' 

During their dialogue, I was standing at the fire- 
side ; and addressing Madame Mara, in German, I 
said, " Madame, I should be sorry for you to have 
that trouble, and I sit lazy by ; I will, with great 
pleasure, go and get Monsieur Ponte some porter." 
I instantly despatched a messenger for a foaming 
pot ; and as soon as it arrived, I presented it to 
the thirsty musician, in the nick of time, for he was 
called on to play his concerto just at this moment. 
Madame Mara desired me to accept her best acknow- 
ledgments for my attention, and gave me an invita- 
tion to call at her house in Pall Mall the next day, 
at two o'clock. I accordingly went; and she then 
told me honestly, that upon her first knowledge of 
me, she had taken a violent dislike to me, which my 
kindness to her timid friend on the preceding even- 
ing, convinced her was ill-ft unded ; she apologised, 
and concluded this amende (tres-honorable) by 
asking me if I took a benefit at the theatre that 
season. 

I answered in the affirmative : she then said, " It 
was my intention never to appear on the English 
stage ; yet if you think my playing for your benefit 
for the first and only time will be of service to you, 
I beg you will command me." 



REMINISCENCES OF 



I was thunderstruck at her kindness and liberality, 
and thankfully accepted it. She fixed on Maridane, 
in Artaxerxes, and brought the greatest receipt ever 
known at that house, as the whole pit, with the ex- 
ception of two benches, was railed into boxes. So 
much for a little German proficiency, a little com- 
mon civility, and a pot of porter. 

The cast of Artaxerxes, upon this occasion, stood 
thus : 

Aibaces ..... MRS. CROUCH. 

Artaxerxes .... MR. BIG NUM. 

Artabanes . . . . MR. KELLY. 

Semi i a ..... MRS. FOSTER. 

Mandane ..... MAUAME MARA. 

June llth, I played at the Opera House, Count 
Almaviva, in the Italian opera of " II Barbiere di 
Siviglia," for the benefit of Signora Storace ; and 
on the 17th of the same month that theatre was de- 
stroyed by fire. I was an eye-witness to the dread- 
ful conflagration ; it was said to have been caused 
purposely, and I knew the person suspected. He 
was an Italian, who had been in the employ of Gal- 
lini, but having disagreed with him, it was reported 
that he set fire to his theatre ; for. my own part, I 
never believed it ; but such was the report ; certain 
it is, at. all events, that the suspected incendiary was 
coolly supping at the Orange Coffee House, watch- 
ing the progress of the flames. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 317 

The Opera company went to Co vent Garden, and 
finished the remainder of the season, where I played 
six nights. 

" Shakspeare's Jubilee" was revived this year, and 
acted five nights to crowded houses; all the per- 
formers walked in the procession, as the different 
characters of his plays. Mrs. Siddons personated 
the Tragic, and Miss Farren the Comic Muse.. I 
had to sing the following lines, written by the pre- 
sent worthy Alderman Birch, author, amongst others, 
of three very popular musical pieces : " The Ma- 
riners ;" " The Adopted Child ;" and The Smug- 
glers :" they were received with unqualified appro- 
bation. 

AIR" The Mulbcrnj Tree." 

" The cypress and yew tree for sorrow renown'-J, 
And tear-dropping willow shall near thee be found ; 
All nature shall droop, and united complain, 
For Shakspeare in Garrick hath died o'er again." 

In the procession I walked, or rather danced 
down, as Benedick, and Miss Pope as Beatrice, in 
"MuchAdoabout Nothing;" both masqued. Moody 
came to me one evening, and requested I would lend 
my domino and masque to a friend of his, who 
wished to see the audience from the stage, and who 
would do exactly as I did, having frequently seen 
me and Miss Pope. On he went, but appeared in- 
stantly planet struck, and stood perfectly still ; nor 



318 REMINISCENCES OF 

did he move until pushed off; the rage and disap- 
pointment of Miss Pope, who was an excellent 
dancer (and I not a very bad one,) at not receiving 
the applause which she had always brought, was 
very great ; she stormed, and raged, and vowed 
vengeance against poor me. I wrote to her in the 
morning, asking her pardon, and signed myself 
" The Fair Penitent ,*" she took the letter in good 
part, and wrote me a friendly answer, admonishing 
me to be guarded against bad advisers : and to the 
day of her death was kindly attentive to me, but 
she never forgave Moody, by whose advice I had 
transgressed. 

In the summer of 1788, I went to Liverpool, 
Manchester, Chester, and Birmingham ; Mrs. 
Crouch was also engaged at those places ; our re- 
ception was most flattering, and we reaped a plenti- 
ful harvest. From Birmingham, we returned to 
Drury Lane. The first novelty was Dryden^s alte- 
ration of Shakspeare's " Tempest," which was re- 
ceived with marked applause for many nights. I 
composed a duet for myself and Mrs. Crouch, as 
Ferdinand and Miranda, which was a favourite : the 
whole of the delightful music by Purcell, was well 
got up by Mr. Linley; the accompaniments by 
himself. 

The next operatical novelty at Drury Lane was 
the u Haunted Tower," written by Cobb, the music 



MICHAEL KELLY. 319 

by Stephen Storace. On the first night of this 
opera, Signora Storace made her first appearance on 
the English stage ; and the piece was thus performed, 
Nov. 24th, 1789. 

Lord William .... MR. KELLY. 

De Conrcy MR. WHITFIELD. 

Edward MR. BANNISTER, Jun. 

Baron of Oakland . . MR. BADDELY. 

Hugo MK. MOODY. 

Robert MR. DIGNUM. 

Lewis . ..... Ma. SUETT. 

Martin MR. WILLIAMS. 

Hubert MR. WEEK. 

Charles MR. SEDGWICK. 

Lady Elinor .... MRS. CROUCH. 

Cicely Miss ROMANZINI. 

Maude MRS. BOOTH. 

Adela SIGNORA STORACE. 

The success of this opera was never surpassed ; it 
was a lasting favourite for many years : the first 
season it was played fifty nights. The under plot 
was taken from an Italian intermezzo opera ; the 
entire scene of the Baron of Oakland reading a let- 
ter, was taken from it. Storace was greatly received 
in Adela, both as a singer and an actress. Bannister 
and Baddely were excellent in the comic parts ; 
Mrs. Crouch, as Lady Elinor, was in the full bloom 
of beauty, and the richest voice. I had two fine 
allotted to me, " From Hope's fond dream/' 



320 REMINISCENCES OF 

and " Spirit of my sainted sire," one of the most 
difficult songs ever composed for a tenor voice ; in- 
deed, all the music was beautiful : the admiration of 
the audience at the sestetto, " By mutual love de- 
lighted,'" I can never forget ; certainly, nothing 
could exceed the composition or the execution of it 4 
both were perfect. 

This season I was engaged by the noble Directors 
of the Ancient Concerts, as principal tenor. The 
night of my debut, the Earl of Uxbridge was the 
Director ; the songs allotted to me by his Lordship, 
were " Jephtha^s rash vow," and the laughing song 
from L' Allegro, " Haste thee, nymph, and bring 
with thee." The late Mr. Linley heard me sing it 
over and over again, and to his masterly instruc- 
tion I owed the indulgence which I received. In 
singing sacred music I was aware of its value, and 
fagged at the tenor songs of Handel with unremit- 
ting assiduity. Mr. Joah Bates conducted those 
concerts, and was supposed to understand Handel 
perfectly ; he was an excellent performer on the or- 
gan ; Cramer was the leader, and Cervetto princi- 
pal violoncello. The concerts were then held in 
Tottenham Street, and their Majesties and the Royal 
Family were constant attendants ; but, although it 
was difficult to become a subscriber, the room w r as 
always crowded. 

I was lucky enough to meet with the approbation 



MICHAEL KELLY. 321 

of Mr. Bates, in the recitative of " Deeper and 
deeper still;" my next song was the laughing one. 
Mr. Harrison, my predecessor at those concerts, 
was a charming singer : his singing " Oft on a plat 
of rising ground ;" his " Lord remember David ;" 
and " O come let us worship and fall down," breathed 
pure religion. No Divine from the pulpit, though 
gifted with the greatest eloquence, could have in- 
spired his auditors with a more perfect sense of duty 
to their Maker than Harrison did by his melodious 
tones and chaste style ; indeed, it was faultless ; hut 
in the animate.! songs of Handel he was very defi- 
cient. I heard him sing the laughing song, without 
moving a muscle ; and determined, though it was 
a great risk, to sing it my own way, and the effect 
produced justified the experiment: instead of. 
singing it with the serious tameness of Harrison, I 
laughed all through it, as I conceived it ought to be 
sung, and as must have been the intention of the 
composer : the infection ran ; and their Majesties, 
and the whole audience, as well as the orchestra, 
were in a roar of laughter ; and a signal was given 
from the royal box to repeat it, and I sang it again 
with increased effect. 

Mr. Bates assured me, that if I had rehearsed it 
in the morning, as I sang it at night, he would 
have prohibited my experiment. I sang it five 
times in the course of that season by special 
desire. p 5 



REMINISCENCES OF 

There was at this time a subscription concert, 
held at Freemasons 1 Hall, called the Academy of 
Ancient Music, under the direction of Dr. Arnold ; 
I was engaged also at that concert for the season. 
The subscribers were chiefly bankers and merchants 
from the city ; I think I hardly ever saw a greater 
assemblage of beautiful women. In the summer of 
1789, Mrs. Crouch and I went to Dublin, Cork, 
Limerick, and Liverpool, and had a pleasant and 
profitable campaign. We performed " The Haunted 
Tower," in Dublin, with complete success. 

The morning after the first night's performance 
of that opera, I was at my father's, and heard a 
news-boy bawling about the street, " Here is the 
high-born Hibernian Journal ! the Freeman's Jour- 
nal ! and Saunders's Great News, and more to come !" 
Anxious to hear what the papers said of my per- 
formance of the night before, I opened the street 
door, and calling the news-boy to me, asked him for 
Freeman's Journal ; " Sir," said the ragged urchin, 
" I've sold the last I had." 

" Then," said I, " you stupid dog, if you have 
sold them, why are you crying them about the 
street ?" 

With an arch look, scratching his head, and 
looking me full in the face, he replied, " Practice 
makes perfect, Mr. Kelly; I do it just to keep 
myself in voice ;" and away he ran. 

From Cork we went to perform a few nights at 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

Waterford, and spent some very pleasant joyous 
days at Youghal, the seat of our worthy friend Mr. 
llobert Uniacke. His hospitable mansion was full 
of company; amongst whom were the Marquis of 
Waterford and family, and Mr. Newport the 
banker, now Sir John Newport. 

In the month of October, there was a grand 
musical festival at Norwich. Madame Mara was 
engaged there, and so was I, as principal tenor 
.singer. The first performance was " The Messiah, 11 
which I was to open on the Thursday morn- 
ing. I was to quit town on the Tuesday, but on 
Monday night I received an order not on any 
account to leave London, for Mr. Sheridan had 
sent a peremptory message to have Richard Cceur 
de Lion performed ; and against his decree there 
was no appeal. John Palmer, the excellent co- 
median, was with me when I received the message ; 
he said to me, " My valued friend, Richard will be 
over by eleven o'clock ; if you choose to have a 
carriage and four horses at the door, you will get 
with ease to Norwich by twelve, on Thursday, in 
time to open " the Messiah. 11 Norwich is the city 
that first cherished me, and where I married my 
beloved wife; how I should like to accompany 
you, if you would give me a seat in your chaise. 11 

I said it would make me very happy to have the 
pleasure of his company. He told me he was per- 



REMINISCENCES OF 

fectly acquainted with every inn on the road, and 
would write immediately to those where we were to 
change horses, to have relays prepared for us, that 
we mi"-ht not meet with any delay on the road. I 

C-J / 

was much pleased with the promised arrangement, 
and wrote to Madame Mara that I should be at 
Norwich on Thursday in time, requesting her to 
secure two beds at the Hotel where she was ; one 
for my friend Palmer, and one for myself. 

On Wednesday evening, as I was dressing for 
Richard, my friend Palmer came to me, with the 
countenance of Joseph Surface, and sighing, said, 
" My best of friends, this is the most awful period 
of my life; I cannot leave town; my beloved wife, the 
partner of my sorrows and my joys, is just confined." 

I said, under such circumstances, of course I 
could not expect him to leave Mrs. Palmer, but 
I hoped there would be no mistake about the 
horses, which were ordered to be ready at each 
post ; he sat down, and deliberately wrote down 
the names of all the places where he had ordered 
them to be in readiness. 

About eleven o'clock, having merely taken off my 
Richard's dress, I got into the carriage ; and ac- 
companied by a Scotchman, who was my valet and 
hair-dresser, rattled off full speed to Epping, where 
we were first to change, at the inn marked down by 
iny excellent friend ; we knocked and bellowed for 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

Mr. Palmer's horses ; at last out came the ostler ; 
Mr. Palmer had no horses there ; he had not sent 
any orders ; nor did they even know who Mr 
Palmer was. 

I never in the course of rny life experienced a 
greater disappointment ; in short, all the way 
down I had to wait for horses, as Palmer had not 
written to any one of the inns ; however, the 
road was excellent, and by paying the boys well, 
I got on at a capital pace without the smallest 
accident. It was market-day at Norwich, and as 
I drove in, the good folks stared and wondered to 
see me getting my hair dressed in the carriage; 
however, I reached the church-door just as the 
overture to " the Messiah," was on the point of 
commencing. I took my seat in the orchestra, 
opened the " Oratorio," and never was in better 
voice, although naturally much fatigued. 

We had two more morning performances in the 
church, and three evening performances in the 
grand assembly room. At the conclusion of the 
festival I returned to town, and when I charged 
Palmer with neglect and deception, he swore that 
he had ordered all the horses exactly as he had 
stated. I thought it of no use to be at variance with 
him, and pretended to believe him, which of course 
prevented a quarrel, though his neglect might have 
been of the most serious consequence to me ; and 



326 REMINISCENCES OF 



.although the fact was, that Mrs. Palmer had not 
been confined at all. 

About two months afterwards he was engaged 
to go to Reading, to act for a benefit, but he did 
not go ; and wrote to the poor actor, for whom he 
was to perform, that he could not leave town, 
because Mrs. Palmer was just brought to bed; his 
letter was read from the stage to the audience. 
When I heard of it, I congratulated him upon 
the possession of a partner, who increased his family 
every two months. But Plausible Jack, all his life, 
was blessed with inventive faculties. 

4 

I remember there was a new comedy to be per- 
formed at Drury Lane, the name of which I do not 
now remember, in which Palmer had the principal 
part; it was very long, and the day before, at 
rehearsal, he did not know a single line of it. 
On the day the play was to be acted, the boxes 
all engaged, and a crowded house expected, Palmer 
sent word that he was taken dangerously ill, and 
that it would be at the risk of his life if he were 

% 

to play that night. His letter was not sent to the 
theatre until three oVlock, when all was confusion, 
from the lateness of the hour at which the intel- 
ligence was received. Mr. Sheridan was at the 

^ 

box-office, and I was with him, when Powell, the 
prompter, brought him the letter. When he had 
read it, he said to me, " I'd lay my life this is a 



MICHAEL KELLY. 827 

trick of Plausible Jack's, and that there is nothing 
the matter with him, except indeed not knowing a 
line of the part he has to act to-night. Let you 
and I call upon him, and I am sure we shall find 
him as well as ever. 1 ' 

He lodged in Lisle Street, two doors from my 
house. As we were passing by, Mrs. Crouch hap- 
pened to be at one of the windows, and beckoned 
Mr. Sheridan to walk in ; he did so, and I went 
on to Palmer's ; and finding the street-door open, 
walked up stairs, where I found him seated at 
table, with his family, in the middle of dinner, in 
seeming excellent health and spirits. I told him 
to clear away the table, for Mr. Sheridan would 
be there, in two minutes, to see him ; " and," said 
I, " he swears there is nothing the matter with 
you, and that you have shammed sick, only because 
you are not perfect ; if he find himself right in his 
surmises, he will never forgive you, for putting off* 
the play." 

" Thanks, my best, my dearest, valued friend," 
replied Palmer ; " I'm sure you'll not betray me." 

I assured him I would not, and in a moment 
he was in his bed-room, enveloped in his dressing- 
gown, with a large woollen night-cap on his head, 
and a handkerchief tied under his jaw, stretched 
on a sofa. As Mr. Sheridan entered the room, he 
began groaning, as if in the most excruciating 



328 REMINISCENCES OF 

torture from the tooth-ache. Never did he act 
a part better, on or off the stage. Mr. Sheridan 
was really taken in ; advised him to have his tooth 
extracted, and then to study his part, and get 
perfect in the new play. We went away, and I 
kept his secret till the day of his death. 

It was about this time that the well-known Che- 
valier St. George was in London, and with him 
Giornovick, the celebrated violin player. Gior- 
novick, who was a desperate duellist, quarrelled 

with Shaw, the leader of the Drurv Lane orchestra, 

if . 

at an oratorio, and challenged him. I strove all in 

my power to make peace between them ; Giornovick 
could not speak a word of English, and Shaw 
could not speak a word of French. They both 
agreed that I should be the mediator between them ; 
I translated what they said to each other most faith- 
fully ; but unfortunately, Shaw, in reply to one 
of Giornovick's accusations, said, " Poh ! ,pohr 

" Sacre Dieu ! " said Giornovick, " what is the 
meaning of dat Poh ! poll ? I will not hear a word 
until you translate me, Poh ! poh P 

My good wishes to produce harmony between 
them for some time were frustrated, because I really 
did not know how to translate " Poh ! poh !"" into 
French or Italian ; I, however, at last succeeded in 
making them friends, but the whole scene was truly 
ludicrous. 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

In April 1789, I played Macheath, for the first 
time, for my benefit. Mrs. Crouch, Polly ; and 
Mrs. Charles Kemble (then Miss Decamp), Lucy ; 
both these ladies were inimitable. To play Mac- 
heath was the height of my ambition : I took all 
the pains I could, and no young man had greater 
pains taken with him. Mr. Linley remembered 
Beard and Vernon ; John Kemble, Digges ; they 
gave me imitations of these Macheaths : there was 
also then in London, the celebrated Irish Mac- 
heath, and worthy man, old Wildar, who had re- 
tired from the theatrical profession, and was living 
in London. Previous to his going on the stage, 
he had been a painter, and had a secret for cleaning 
pictures, which produced him a good income. His 
Colonel Oldboy will never be forgotten, and his 
Macheath was excellent. From his tuition I learnt 
much; but my great support was the perfect re- 
collection I had of Webster, who was certainly the 
best Macheath in the world. I acted the part 
a number of nights, with by far the best acting 
Polly, and the best Lucy, I ever saw, or ever hope 
to see again. 

I had the good fortune, on my benefit night, to 
produce, for the first time, the musical entertain- 
ment of " No Song, no Supper." It will hardly 
be credited that this charming and popular opera, 
which has been acted hundreds of nights, was actually 



330 REMINISCENCES OF 

rejected by the Drury Lane management. Its au- 
thor, my valued friend, Prince Hoare, and Storace, 
the composer of its enchanting music, gave it me for 
my benefit ; the applause it received on that night, 
induced the managers to solicit it from the author 
and composer. 

All the music is beautiful, but the finale to the 
first act is a most masterly composition ; the drama 
is full of comic situations, and the whole, in my 
opinion, excellent. In the summer I went to 
Liverpool, Birmingham, Manchester, and Chester. 
The Italian Opera was performed at the little 
theatre in the Haymarket this year, which was the 
first of George Colman the younger 1 s management. 

On the 31st of October, died that eccentric 
comedian, and great supporter of O'Keefe^s muse, 
Edwin. I knew him well ; he was the best Eng- 
lish burletta singer I ever heard : he had great 
rapidity of utterance, and was a competent musi- 
cian ; his Peeping Tom and Lingo were master- 
pieces. 

I this season received a most flattering mark of 
attention from Mr. John Beard, the celebrated 
English tenor singer. He did me the honour to 
come from his house at Hampton (as he told me) 
to hear me sing " Spirit of my Sainted Sire," in 
" The Haunted Tower ;" he sat in the Drury Lane 
orchestra box, with his trumpet to his ear, for he 



MICHAEL KELLY. 331 

was very deaf ; and after the opera was over, came 
upon the stage to me, and was pleased to express 
himself in high terms of approbation. I confess 
such a tribute from such a man was gratifying in 
the extreme. 

In the beginning of June 1789, Doctor Arnold, 
for whose distinguished talents I felt a great 
regard, called upon me, to request that I would 
assist him in engaging Madame Mara, Signora 
Storace, and Mrs. Crouch, with several other 
eminent singers, to go down to Cannons, where 
he had kindly undertaken to conduct an oratorio, 
or rather a selection from Handel's works, for the 
relief of the poor of Stanmore. Cannons was for- 
merly in the possession of the Duke of Chandos, 
and the house in which Handel composed some of 
his finest music. This beautiful place was pur- 
chased by Colonel O'Kelly, of turf celebrity, who, 
at his death, left it to his nephew, Colonel O'Kelly, 
a particular friend of mine. His father resided with 
him at Cannons, and was a good-natured, well- 
meaning Irishman, with a fine Connaught brogue, 
and a great crony of Father O'Leary's. 

When Mrs. Crouch and myself were at breakfast, 
he called upon us, and said to me, " Arrah, my 
jewel of a namesake, tell me what tunes are we 
going to hear at church this morning ?" 



332 REMINISCENCES OF 

I shewed him the printed bill of the performance, 
part of which he read, and made his comments on 
it. In act the first was to be sung, " Lord, what 
is man ?" by Madame Mara. " Upon my honour 
and conscience,' 1 '' said he, " I am mioiitilv mistaken 

o / 

if Madame Mara don't pretty well know without 
asking." 

The next song announced, was " Total Eclipse," 
l)y Mr. Kelly. " That is right, my jewel," said the 
Colonel, " I like that now ; the more you talk 
about Eclipse the better, for wasn't it Eclipse that 
bought Cannons ?" 

This season, a singer, of the name of Bowden, 
made his appearance at Covent Garden, in " Ilobin 
Hood." I remember going to see his debut with 
Madame Mara, who had known him when he was 
in a mercantile house at Manchester, and was very 
much interested in his success : he was received with 
great applause, his voice was good, and he sang 
with taste. Johnstone played the part of Edwin, 
and their voices blended well together in the duet 
of " How sweet in the Woodlands." Mrs. Billing- 
ton was the Angelica, looked beautifully, and sang 
the simple ballad, " I travelled India's barren 
sands," like a true Angelica. In the same box with 
Madame Mara and myself, sat Charles Bannister, 
who had originally acted the same part of Robin, 



MICHAEL KELLY. 333 

Hood ; a person next to him, who was vehemently 
applauding Bowden, had the bad taste to say to 
Bannister (purposely, I suppose, to mortify him), 
" Ay, ay, Sir, Bowden is the true Robin Hood, 
the only Robin Hood ;" on which Bannister replied, 
" Sir, he may be Robin Hood this year, but next 
season he will be robbing Harris." Tlusjeu cTesprlt 
produced some merriment. 

In August 1790, Mr. and Mrs. Crouch, myself, 
and a very old friend of Mrs. Crouch, a Mr. 
M'Donnell, proposed to spend some time at Mar- 
gate, and thence to go to Paris : Mrs. Billington 
was at Ramsgate at the same time. In the church- 
yard of St. Peter's, are interred the remains of that 
excellent scholar and actor, Mr. Thomas Sheridan, 
who died at Margate ; his son, Richard Brinsley 
Sheridan, followed him to the grave, and during his 
illness paid him the most affectionate and dutiful 
attention, as I can testify. 

The recollection of this place is indelibly stamped 
upon my mind by a circumstance which deeply 
interested us all at the time. A poor girl, an in- 
habitant of it, by an accident, was deprived of the 
use of her limbs, and reduced to the greatest dis- 
tress. Mr. Phillips, the father of Mrs. Crouch, 
then lived at St. Peters, and took great pains to 
forward a subscription for the poor sufferer, and 
drew up a petition to the inhabitants and visitors ; 



334) REMINISCENCES OF 

the Honourable Wellesley Pole (now Lord Mary- 
borough) and his lady ; the Honourable Mr. Vil- 
liers and his lady (Mrs. Pole's sister), were then 
at Margate, highly esteemed for their kindness and 
philanthropy ; and with their usual goodness, they 
undertook to promote the subscription ; and not 
only made a liberal donation themselves, but in the 
public library one evening, when the room was 
crowded with visitors, they went round to every 
individual to request their charity for the poor girl, 
and collected an unexpected sum of money. 

Mrs. Crouch and I were present; and when it 
came to our turn to bestow our mite, I said to Mrs. 
Crouch, that I thought our best donation would be 
to play a night at the theatre for the girrs benefit; 
and as neither of us had ever been seen on the stage 
at Margate, and the place was very full, I hoped 
we should bring her a good receipt. Mrs. Crouch 
most cheerfully acquiesced, and the night appointed 
by the manager was the Saturday week : in the 
course of the next day, the performance was an- 
nounced, " The Beggar's Opera f Mrs. Crouch, 
Polly ; myself, Macheath : every place in the house 
was taken, and the whole pit, one row excepted, 
railed into boxes. 

Two days afterwards, looking out of my window, 
who should I see, but my old friend and country- 
man, Jack Johnstone, who told me he had jut 



MICHAEL KELLY. 385 

returned from the Federation at Paris. I men- 
tioned to him that the day after the girl's benefit my 
party and myself were going there ; " Egad," said 
he, " I should like to make one of your party, and 
go with you." 

I said, " I should be delighted with your com- 
pany ; but you tell me, that you are only this day 
returned from Paris." 

" That," said he, u makes no difference ; I shall 
be ready to accompany you at an hour's warning ; 
and," added he, " if you think that my playing 
Mat-o'-the-Mint, for the poor girl, will be of any 
use or strength to the performance, you may com- 
mand my services." 

The offer was most liberal and kind; for the 
high rank he held in his profession, made it a con- 
descension in him to play such a trivial character. 
He introduced a song in the thieves' scene at the 
table, which he sang admirably, and was most loudly 
applauded, a just tribute to his talents and good 
nature ; indeed, the whole of the performance gave 
satisfaction to as crowded an audience as ever filled 
a theatre. The receipts of the house, and many 
liberal presents sent to the poor girl, were by her 
patronesses invested in an annuity, which produced 
her at least a comfortable subsistence for the remain- 
der of her life. 

While at Margate, Mr. and Mrs. Crouch, and 

2 



REMINISCENCES OF 

myself, were staying at the Hotel, kept by a man 
whose manners were as free and easy as any I ever 
met with. He was proverbial for his nonchalance, 
and a perfect master of the art of making out a bill. 
One day, Johnstone dined with us, and we drank 
our usual quantum of wine. In the course of the 
evening, our bashful host, who, amongst other good 
qualities, was a notorious gambler, forced upon us 
some Pink Champagne, which he wished us to give 
our opinions of. My friend, Jack Johnstone, who 
never was an enemy to the juice of the grape, took 
such copious draughts of the sparkling beverage, 
that his eyes began to twinkle, and his speech be- 
came somewhat of the thickest : mv honest host. 

j 

on perceiving this, thinking, I suppose, to amuse 
him, entered our room with a backgammon table 
and dice, and asked Johnstone if he would like to 
play a game. Johnstone, at that time, was consi- 
dered foncl of play, of which circumstance mine host 
was perfectly aware. Mrs. Crouch and I earnestly 
entreated Jack to go to bed, but we could not pre- 
vail upon him to do so ; he whispered me, saying, 
" You shall see how I will serve the fellow for his 
impudence ;" and to it they went. The end of the 
business was, that before they parted, Johnstone 
won nearly two hundred pounds, and I retired to 
bed delighted at seeing the biter bit. It was, what 
the Cockneys call, quite refreshing. 






MICHAEL KELLY. 337 

On Sunday morning, in a post coach and four, 
Mr. and Mrs. Crouch, Mr. M'Donnell, Johnstone, 
and I set off for Dover, and went to the York 
Hotel, where we were detained by contrary winds 
until the Tuesday morning following. We met a 
very pleasant fellow there, a friend of Johnstone's, 
a Captain Barnes, who had been second to the noted 
Dick England, in the duel which he fought at 
Cranford Bridge with Mr. Nolles, the brewer, of 
Kingston, and in which Mr. Nolles was unluckily 
shot. The Captain was an Irishman, with a strong 
vernacular twang, a powerful man, and remarkably 
tall ; he had a man-servant not quite nine years old, 
and very short for his age. He was dressed cap-a- 
pie^ like a horse-jockey : nothing could be more 
diverting than to see the huge master and diminutive 
servant together, going along the beach to the boat, 
to get aboard the packet; the master took long 
Bobadil-like strides, and Tom was ordered to walk 
behind him ; every two minutes master would stop, 
and cry out, " Tom, are you after me ?" Tom 
answered, " Yes, Captain." The Captain, turn- 
ing to me, vociferating, " By the pipe of Leinster, 
Sir, he is the first man-servant in Europe," went 
on a few steps further, then repeated, " Tom, are 
you after me?" "Yes, Sir." " He is the first 
rider and shaver on the face of the known universal 
world." In short, the Captain thought that his 
VOL. i. Q 



338 REMINISCENCES OF 

Goliah was the first of all valets. It was such a 
truly laughable scene, that when I returned from 
France, and told Jack Bannister of it, it tickled his 
fancy so much, that many and many an evening, to 
please Lord Derby, Miss Farren, &c. &c., in the 
green-room, did we enact it Bannister on his 
knees, representing Goliah ; and myself, his mas- 
ter ; Bannister, with a great vein of comic humour, 
made the dialogue truly amusing, as, indeed, he did 
every imitation that he gave. 

At Calais, we went to Dessein's, made an excel- 
lent dinner, and passed the night there. We took 
our route the next morning for Lisle, and got 
to dinner at St. Omer. At the hotel where we dined, 
the landlady told us that Madame la grande actrice 
Anglaise Siddons had just dined, and quitted the 
house not more than a quarter of an hour before 
our arrival. I asked the landlady what she thought 
of Mrs. Siddons ? She said, she " thought her a 
fine woman, and thought she made it her study to 
appear like a French woman; but," added the 
landlady, " she has yet much to learn before she ar- 
rives at the dignity and grace of one." After this 
speech I could find nothing palatable in her house. 

We slept at Mont Cassel, and took the route to 
Lisle, through Belleisle, a pretty country all the 
way. I was much pleased with Lisle. At this pe^ 
riod, part of the Irish brigade was quartered there; 



MICHAEL KELLY. 339 

among whom were two worthy Irishmen, and 
distinguished officers, a Colonel McCarthy, and 
Major Doran, who took us to view the whole of the 
fortifications, &c. There I saw Sir Watkin Lewes, 
of whom it was jocularly said, that he possessed so 
much military ardour, that he always slept in his 
boots. The Chevalier St. George occupied apart- 
ments in the same hotel with us, and favoured us 
with some solos on the violin, of his own composition ; 
he certainly possessed infinite skill on that instru- 
ment. The Chevalier St. George, of whom I have 
already spoken, was a Creole, and a man of great 
abilities ; he was reckoned the finest fencer in 
Europe, and an excellent equestrian : he had com- 
posed a great deal of music, and was esteemed a 
very fine violin player. When he came to London 
with Giornovick, they attempted to carry on concerts 
by subscription, but they failed. He was driven 
to many schemes to recruit his finances, and, amongst 
others, he had recourse to one which did not redound 
to his credit. A Mr. Goddard, a noted fencing- 
master, challenged him in the public newspapers to 
fence at the Pantheon, which was crowded, to witness 
the trial of skill; every one anticipated that St. 
George would be the victor, but the reverse was 
the case, Goddard won the day. 

I remember being present, and much mortified, 
a St. George and I were intimate friends. It, how- 



340 REMINISCENCES OF 

ever, was supposed . afterwards, that he permitted 
himself to be vanquished for the consideration of a 
large sum of money ; and, like the apothecary in 
Romeo and Juliet, " his poverty, and not his will, 
consented." Poor St. George proved the old adage, 
that, 

" He, whom the dread of want ensnares, 
With baseness acts, with meanness bears." 

There was an excellent company of French actors 
at the theatre at Lisle, to which we went both the 
nights we remained there. 

On Friday (an ominous day for travelling, as Mr. 
Sheridan used to say), in a post coach and four we 
set off for Douay. Had time permitted, I should 
have liked to stop at the latter place, and visit the 
College, having a feeling of affection for that seat of 
learning ; inasmuch as a half-brother of mine was sent 
there to be educated for the Roman Catholic priest- 
hood, as well as my friends Messrs. John and Charles 
Kemble, who studied there. My excellent friend, 
JohnKemble, as is generally known, was intended for 
a priest, but Melpomene claimed him as her darling- 
son, and snatched him from the holy church, where, 
perhaps, he might have become as good a Cardinal, 
in reality, (and mayhap a Pope) as on the stage. 
He was the best theatrical one I ever saw ; his 
Cardinal Wolsey, in Henry VIII., was a master- 



MICHAEL KELLY. 341 

piece. I have heard him often say, that he was 
much indebted for his personification of that charac- 
ter to his recollection of Digges. Of one thing I 
am persuaded, from having lived for a number of 
years in habits of the strictest intimacy with him, 
that, from his intellectual endowments, the extent of 
his mind, and the perseverance of his nature, to 
whatever profession he had turned his thoughts, he 
would have been a splendid ornament to it. By 
those who could appreciate his talents better than 
myself, he was held in the highest estimation. 

We, however, were unable to stay at Douay, and 
jogged merrily towards Cambray, armed, not with 
pistols, but with bottles of sparkling Champagne, in 
the pockets of our carriage, and we drank the health 
of the inhabitants of every chateau which we passed ; 
John stone and myself singing all the way, and 
repeating, while we quaffed, the translation of Dr. 
Aldridge's Latin epigram of Causae Bibendi. 

" If on my theme I rightly think, 

There are five reasons why men should drink ; 
Good wine a friend or being dry, 
Or, lest one should be by and by, 
Or, any other reason why." 

We got to Cambray, visited the cathedral ; a 
fine structure, and then pushed on to Chantilly 
a most enchanting spot ; the avenues are finely 
laid out. In going through one of them, Johnstone 



342 REMINISCENCES OF 

was delighted to see the partridges walking about^ 
as if conscious of their security. As we got to 
Chantilly early in the evening, we went to view the 
stables, the pride of the Prince de Conde ; our con- 
ductor told us he had been brought up in the 
Prince's stables from a child. " But," said he, 
"thanks to our good citizens, he is no more a 
greater personage than myself, parbleu, / am now 
his equal." The triumphant air of satisfaction 
which the scoundrel displayed in his republican 
countenance, when reciting the downfall of his 
great, good, and unhappy master, actually filled 
us with horror ; it seemed the ne phis ultra of 
baseness, villany, and ingratitude. 

In the morning, we set off for Paris, where we 
had superb apartments taken for us in the Rue 
Neuve St. Marc. We hired two French valets-de- 
place, one called Giuseppe, and the other, Louis ; 
both, though very communicative, were very re- 
spectful. Louis was a strong revolutionist, which 
I discovered in the following way : The third day 
after our arrival in Paris, we dined at the Palais 
Royal ; I told Louis to bring me my great coat at 
ten o'clock to the Theatre Montansier ; he said he 
would be there punctually. After dinner, previous 
to going to the theatre, the ladies, with John stone 
and myself, were sauntering about the Palais Royal, 
and saw, opposite to the Cafe de Fob, a great -crowd* 



MICHAEL KELLY. 343 

listening attentively to an orator who was haranguing 
them. We mingled with the rest, to listen, and 
heard the orator uttering the most revolutionary 
language, in extremely well-turned periods, and 
with great fluency. Johnstone asked me if I ever 
saw so strong a likeness as between the orator and 
our valet-de-place, Louis ? I confessed the resem- 
blance; however, we passed on, and went to the 
play. 

On leaving the theatre at ten oVlock, we found 
Louis at the door waiting for us, with our great 
coats. While he was waiting on us at supper, I 
turned to him, and said, " In the Palais Royal, 
this evening, we heard a man addressing the crowd 
with force and eloquence, so like you, Louis, in 
person, that, had not his coat been of a different 
colour to yours, I could have sworn it had been 
yourself." " Sir," said he, "you would have sworn 
rightly ; it was me, though in a different coat from 
that which I now wear ; I changed it before I 
came to you to the theatre." " Indeed," said I, 
with surprise, " why, I engaged you as my valet- 
de-place, not as a Palais Royal orator" " Sir," 
answered my valet, " you told me you did not want 
me until ten o'clock, and to be at the theatre with 
your great coats, and there I was to the minute ; in 
the interim, Sir, I considered my time was my own, 
and I made what use of it I thought proper." 



344 REMINISCENCES OF 

All things considered, 1 thought it prudent to 
say that he was in the right, and certainly, all the 
time he was in our service, he proved himself a most 
attentive servant ; and, strange to say, not spoiled 
by fancying himself (when off duty), as good a man 
as his masters. 

We remained in Paris three weeks, and saw every 
thing worth seeing, and went every night to one of 
the theatres. The first night we went to the Grand 
Opera, Mrs. Crouch, who was seated in a box in a 
conspicuous part of the house, had the eyes of the 
parterre turned on her, the audience seemingly 
staring at her with displeasure, and whispering to 
one another. A gentleman in the box with us ex- 
plained the cause ; poor Mrs. Crouch, quite uncon- 
scious of the impropriety, wore a white rose in her 
hair, which was the royalist colour. She was on 
thorns until she quitted the box, but met with no 
insult, which was singular, considering how com- 
pletely the dominion of anarchy and tumult had 
brutalized the people. 

There was an Italian Opera in the Faubourg 
St. Germain. Among the performers, were my 
friends, Mandini, his wife, Viganoni, Rovedino, 
&c. &c., who paid us every attention. We had 
most agreeable parties made for us, and amongst 
them, one given by the justly-celebrated actor, 
Monsieur La Rive, at his house (or rather palace) 



MICHAEL KELLY. 345 

in the Champ de Mars. His style of living was 
magnificent, and I never saw a finer dinner put 
on table than his. I sat next to him, and when I 
asked to be helped to any of the exquisite dishes, 
he would say, " Pray do not eat of it, there's 
something coming which I am sure will please 
you better than any dish now on the table." This 
something at last appeared, in the shape of a small 
piece of half-roasted beef, not warmed through. 
The good Monsieur and Madame La Rive were 
astonished to see that we did not touch it, as it was 
prepared purposely for us, by way of a bonne bouche. 
His wines were excellent, but the treat he gave us 
after dinner was delightful. This great tragedian 
played all kinds of tricks to amuse us. We ad- 
journed from his dinner-parlour to his spacious 
library, which opened into a beautiful garden, 
crowded with orange and lemon trees, &c. &c. : in 
different parts of the library, hung various crowns of 
laurel with which he had been presented in the 
different theatres of France, where he had per- 
formed, accompanied by copies of verses, eulogizing 
his wonderful talents. He acted a scene of Romeo 
and Juliet, by Ducis ; it was a scene where Mon- 
tague (which seems to be a great character in their 
play) vows vengeance and hatred to Capulet. 

Never shall I forget his recitation ; it was the 
very essence of the histrionic art. Johnstone, Mrs. 



346 REMINISCENCES OF 

Crouch, and myself, had not words to express oar 
admiration. In his library, he had a print of Mrs. 
Siddons, as the Tragic Muse, from the picture by 
Sir Joshua. He lamented that he had not the 
gratification to be known to her personally, but 
begged of me to say to her, that if she would ho- 
nour him by visiting him in Paris, he would, for 
the sole purpose of having her an inmate in his 
house, go to Calais and meet her ; and added, 
that it would be a proud day for him to embrace 
so great a genius. He made me a present of a 
fine print of Le Kain, the great tragedian, his pre- 
decessor at the Theatre Frangais, which, on my 
return to London, I gave John Kemble. I had the 
satisfaction of seeing La Rive in several of his 
best parts ; one, in particular, I admired of his, 
Guillaume Tell. His manner of shooting at the 
apple, and the strong contrast of passions which he 
exhibited, were masterly, and called down thunder- 
ing plaudits from his delighted auditory. 

One morning, Johnstone and I, walking in the 
Palais Royal, met with the well-known Richard 
England, whose name occurs before in these pages ; 
he was an old acquaintance of Johnstone's, and was 
living in Paris, keeping a Pharo Bank, in conjunc- 
tion with the celebrated Lady Worsley, which was 
frequented by the beau monde of Paris. He gave us 
a sumptuous dinner, and, at his table, for the first 



MICHAEL KELLY. 

time I met the notorious Dr. Jackson, better known 
by the name of Viper Jackson. It was said that 
he broke Footers heart by the letters he wrote 
against him in defence of the Duchess of Kingston. 
I found him a well-informed, pleasant man, full of 
anecdote, particularly about theatrical people. He 
was the great friend and adviser of John Palmer, 
when he had the Royalty Theatre. He was con- 
sidered a great republican, and a great rebel. I 
confess I thought him, from his conversation, a 
dangerous man, and was fully on my guard before 
him ; he put me very much in mind of the advice 
of my long-tailed patron at Venice, that a silent 
tongue maketh a wise head. 

I went more than once to the National Assem- 
bly ; Mrs. Crouch and Johnstone were present at 
a great debate there, when Mirabeau defended his 
brother, who was at Berlin, with great force and 
eloquence, from charges brought against him. 

The time however was fast approaching, at which 
we were to quit Paris ; for before I left London, 
Le Texier, the French reciter, had translated 
Gretry^s opera of La Caravane into English. Mr. 
Linley had adapted the original French music 
to English poetry, and it was to be produced at the 
opening of Drury Lane. As Mrs. Crouch and 
myself had principal parts in it, I was very anxious 



848 REMINISCENCES OF 

to see it performed at the Grand Opera at Paris, 
and to make observations hovtf they got it up. I 
mentioned my wish to Monsieur Gardel, and he 
was so polite (though another piece was announced 
to be performed) to have " The Caravan"" per- 
formed, for the purpose of gratifying our curiosity. 
We saw it finely acted, and the decorations and 
scenery were of the most splendid description ; 
we saw also the opera of " Blue Beard." " Racule 
Barbe Bleue," is the French title of it: the fine 
bass singer, Chenard, was famous in " Barbe 
Bleue ;" and Madame Dugazzon, in Fatima, and 
Mademoiselle Cretue, in Irene, were both excellent : 
the music, by Gretry, was very good ; but so dif- 
ferent are the tastes of a French and English 
audience, that when I produced my " Blue Beard"" 
at Drury Lane, I did not introduce a single bar 
from Gretry. Mrs. C. was struck with the subject, 
and wrote down the programme of the drama, with 
a view to get it dramatized for Drury Lane ; John- 
stone got the music copied to bring to Mr. Harris, 
at Covent Garden, and it was got up at that thea- 
tre as a pantomime, I believe by Delpini ; I never 
was it in that shape, but have heard that it was not 
successful. 

After bidding adieu to all our kind friends, 
after a sojourn of six weeks, we left Paris, which I 



MICHAEL KELLY. 349 

quitted with great regret, as I found it all gaiety 
and pleasure, and very different to Rousseau's de- 
scription of it : 

Oh, Paris ! ville pleine de brouillard, 
Et couverte de boue, 
Ou les hommes connoisent pas 1'honneur, 
Ni les femmes la vertu. 

We made the best of our way, via Amiens, Abbe- 
ville, Montreuil, and got safe to Boulogne, where 
we were detained four days by contrary winds; 
at length we got away, had a passage of four 
hours, and arrived at the York Hotel, at Dover ; 
not displeased to find ourselves once more in this 
free and happy country, with good old English fare 
before us. 



END OF VOL. I 



LONDON I 
PRINTED BY T. BRETTELL, RUPERT STREET, HAYMARKET. 






.*' 




BBBw 








* $// 
fe*' 







* ..*fc^S^IB 




m 




#&:. ^i* & 

,-ttS5& - -Rw 

FaBp: *^ -i'^^pa 
'' y " St ' M **" %n .. ; A 4&lB 

: ' .. :. V> * i 

, ft J 























+t '^ 








