







^VjV^I /d&*^r/ ' . ll'VT OTffi A.i*' ? 

: ' 





LIBRAE 



MUSICAL 
REMINISCENCES. 



MUSICAL 



REMINISCENCES, 

CONTAINING AN ACCOUNT OK 

THE ITALIAN OPERA IN ENGLAND, 
FROM 1773. 



Cfje jFourllj ISUitton, 
CONTINUED TO THE PRESENT TIME, 



AND INCLUDING 



THE FESTIVAL 

IN 

WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 



BY 

THE EARL OF MOUNT EDGCUMBE. 



LONDON : 
JOHN ANDREWS, OLD BOND STREET; 

AND 

F. H. WALL, RICHMOND, SURREY. 

183i. 



PRINTED BY F. H. WALL, RICHMOND, SURKEY. 



CONTENTS. 

Introduction Page ix 

SECTION I. 

17731778. 

Earliest recollections Millico Rauzzinr Gabrielli 
Pozzi Miss Davies Savoi Galli Roncaglia 
Danzi Aguijari Giorgi .... 1 

SECTION II. 

17781783. 

Pacchierotti Bernasconi Return of Roncaglia and 
Madame Danzi Lebrun Ansani Maccherini 
Return of Pacchierotti Prudom Comic Opera 
Sestini Todi Allegranti Viganoni . . 12 

SECTION III. 

17831785. 

Musical occurrences in a Tour through Germany, 
France, and Italy Return to England Short notice 
of the Opera Commemoration of Handel in West- 
minster Abbey 29 



VI CONTENTS. 

SECTION IV. 

17861792. 

Madame Mara Babbini Rubinelli Benini and 
Mengozzi Storace Morelli Marchesi Burning 
of the King's Theatre Opera at the Little Theatre in 
the Haymarket Concert at the Pantheon Pacchi- 
erotti returned Opera at the Pantheon Perform- 
ances at the King's Theatre in the Haymarket 
David Burning of the Pantheon Opera at the Little 
Theatre Page 51 

SECTION V. 

17931802. 

King's Theatre re-opened Mara, her departure and 
subsequent return Banti Tour in Germany 73 

SECTION VI. 

18031813. 

'TVIrs. Billington Grassini Braham Catalan! Tra- 
mezzani Bertinotti Pantheon Theatre re-opened 
with operas Retrospective view of the Comic Opera 
Morichelli Bolla, &c 89 

SECTION VII. 

18141823. 

Change of style in music and modern operas Rossini 
Mozart Short account of the opera during this 
period Camporese . . . . . 118 



CONTENTS. Vll 

SECTION VIII. 

Observations on English music Sacred music Glees 
Mrs. Sheridan Mrs. Bates the Misses Abrams 

Page 144 

SECTION IX. 

18241828. 

Colbrun Catalan! Pasta Caradori Velluti 
Sontag General Remarks and Retrospection 152 

SECTION X. 

18291834. 

Introduction Farewell to Catalani Italian Opera 
Malibran, Pasta, &c. German Opera French 
Opera Giulietta Grisi, &c. . 197 

SECTION XL 

1834. 

Musical Festival in Westminster Abbey Conclusion 

222 



INTRODUCTION. 



THE following pages owe their origin to a 
correspondence on the subject of music, 
and on the changes it has undergone of 
late years ; in which were necessarily 
introduced some details respecting the 
former state of our opera, and criticisms 
on the most celebrated performers who 
brought it to its highest perfection. 
These having raised some curiosity in 
the friend to whom they were addressed, 
I was induced to put them together in 
a more regular form, and to write as 
correct an account as my memory, na- 
turally very retentive, could enable me 
to do, of all the musical events that 
have occurred during the long period 
to which my remembrance extends, and 



X INTRODUCTION. 

particularly of the Italian Opera in this 
country. I accordingly began these Re- 
miniscences, thereby yielding a good deal 
to my own inclination, as the recollec- 
tions I have been obliged to call back 
have afforded me no small gratification, 
having been passionately fond of music 
while music was really good, and having 
lived in what I consider as one of its 
most flourishing periods. So great a 
change has taken place within a few 
years, that I can no longer receive from 
it any pleasure approaching to that which 
I used to experience. The remembrance 
of the past is therefore infinitely more 
agreeable than the enjoyment of the pre- 
sent, and I derive the highest gratification 
music can yet afford me from hearing 
again, or barely recalling to mind what 
formerly gave me such unqualified delight. 
But though the taste of Italian professors, 
as well singers as composers, is so much 
altered (and in my opinion altered for the 



INTRODUCTION'. XI 

worse), many English amateurs retain like 
myself the love for the good old style, and 
for the compositions of those excellent 
masters which modern caprice has thrown 
aside as obsolete, but which must ever be 
considered by real judges as far superior 
to the fantastical and trifling frippery of 
the modern school. My remarks will no 
doubt appear very old-fashioned, and it is 
natural they should be so ; but if it were 
possible to suppose they should be read 
fifty years hence, I think it very probable 
they would then be considered to be 
founded in truth and justice ; as the 
present fancifid style seems to be such as 
must speedily pass away, and be replaced 
by one more true to nature, more resem- 
bling at least, if not quite reverting to, 
that simpler kind, which must invariably 
please all who are susceptible of feeling 
the genuine, unsophisticated expression of 
really fine music. But I am anticipating 
what, if it is said at all, will find a more 
proper place hereafter. 



Xll INTRODUCTION. 

My principal object has been to give a 
regular account of the Opera from the 
earliest days in which I can remember it, 
which I am enabled to do for so long a 
space as fifty years : for I was carried 
thither even in my childhood; as I ad- 
vanced in years my taste for it increased, 
and for the best portion of my life I was 
one of its most constant frequenters. For 
the last twenty years I have ceased to take 
the same interest in it, and been but an 
occasional even a rare visitor of the thea- 
tre : for several seasons I have scarcely 
entered its doors. As the good singers 
disappeared, and remained unreplaced, as 
the style of the compositions changed, and 
as their execution deviated more and more 
from what I had been accustomed to in 
the golden age of the Opera, my curiosity 
diminished with my pleasure, and though 
both have latterly been occasionally re- 
vived, yet I never expect to hear again 
what I have done, or any new music, or 
new singers, that will make me amends for 



INTRODUCTION. Xlll 

those which are gone. Tastes are always 
various, generally fluctuating : mine, which 
was formed half a century ago, has not 
wavered in the slightest degree down to 
the present moment. According to that 
taste, whether it may be esteemed good or 
bad, I have ventured to give my opinion 
on music and performers, past and present, 
have detailed all I remember, and the 
first impressions I received. Those are 
always the most lasting, and not unfre- 
quently the most correct; at least, on 
mature consideration, I still think them so. 
The epistolary style, in which these Re- 
miniscences were begun, and which has 
been in a great degree preserved, will 
account for the diffuse, digressive, and 
irregular manner in which they are writ- 
ten, and for the introduction of some 
anecdotes not strictly belonging to the 
subject, which occurred to my recollection 
as I proceeded ; as well as for the egotism 
which may appear to prevail, and for the 



XIV INTHODUCTION. 

relation of some occurrences purely per- 
sonal. It is hoped however that the 
curious on musical subjects may find some 
information which may not be uninter- 
esting; and (as I have more confidence 
in my memory than my judgement) 
those who differ with me in my opinions 
and criticisms may at least place reliance 
on the accuracy of the facts. 

I trust that I have neither been unfair 
in my remarks on performers, nor totally 
wrong in my judgement on music in 
general. In the former it has been my 
object to give all praise where praise was 
due, and where it could not be conferred 
with justice to abstain as much as pos- 
sible from censure by passing rapidly 
over those who could not otherwise have 
escaped it. In the latter I am well 
aware that I shall seem prejudiced, and 
that my opinion will be widely different 
from that of all who admire the modern 
style, because they never heard a better. 



INTRODUCTION. XV 

But if any old professors, or old amateurs, 
should ever read this book, I cannot but 
flatter myself they would agree in most 
of what I have said, and join in opinion 
with me on the merits of those performers 
of whom my panegyric may appear ex- 
aggerated, but who so greatly excelled 
those of latter days (with a few brilliant 
exceptions) that I cannot but remember 
them with delight, and speak of them 
with warmth. 

I may perhaps be accused of presump- 
tion in entering into so much critical 
dissertation on the science, for which I 
am ill qualified, having no better 
ground on which to form a judgement 
than a tolerable ear, and long experience 
of hearing the best music while it was 
in its highest perfection. To this accu- 
sation I must plead guilty ; nor was it my 
original intention to go so largely into 
such discussions. I undertook only to 
write Reminiscences., but was insensibly led 



XVI INTRODUCTION. 

away as I proceeded, by the interest I felt 
in the subject. The writing of these 
pages when I first began them, was at 
least an agreeable occupation to myself, 
and beguiled many a hour of a long and 
tedious confinement, which not only tem- 
porarily prevented my going to the the- 
atre, but has disabled me from ever being 
again its constant attendant, and though 
curiosity has taken me thither a very few 
times, unless some new and extraordinary 
performance again excites it, I may never 
see another opera. 



MUSICAL 
REMINISCENCES. 

SECTION I. 

17731778. 

Earliest recollections Millico Rauzzini j-Gabrielli 
-V-Pozzi i-Miss Davies Savoi-V-Galli Roncaglia-J- 
Danzi-^- Aguij ar H-Giorgi. 

THE first opera which I have any the 
slightest recollection of having seen was that 
of Artaserse, in the year 1773, at which time 
Millico was the first man.* Being then quite 
a child, I could not in the least judge of his 

* It may be convenient to mention here, that the 
serious opera uniformly consisted of the following per- 
sons: The primo uomo, soprano, prima donna, and 
tenor ; the secondo uomo, soprano, seconda donna, and 
ultima parte, bass. It had rarely more characters, and 
chorusses were seldom introduced. 




MILLICO. 

performance ; but his face and figure were 
too remarkable not to make an impression 
never to be entirely effaced, being of a singu- 
larly dark complexion, ill made, and uncom- 
monly plain in features. Of his merits I can 
say nothing but that his reputation was still 
high in Italy when I was in that country 
many years afterwards. Fie published here 
a collection of canzonettas, which are of 
a most pleasing and graceful style. These 
I frequently heard executed by Lady Clarges, 
who had been his scholar, and was one 
of the best amateur performers I ever 
knew. She sung with all the science of a 
professor, and with a taste the most polished 
and refined. If she had adopted that of her 
master, there can be no doubt of his having 
been an excellent singer. The first woman 
was, I believe, Grassi, afterwards married to 
the composer Bach : she was succeeded by 
Girelli. 

I have a much more distinct recollection 
of Rauzzini, who succeeded Millico in the 



RAUZZINI. O 

season of 1774 and 1775, and remained at the 
opera for three years, having had frequent 
opportunities of hearing him after he had left 
the stage. When he first sung in this country, 
he was young and handsome, had an agree- 
able countenance, and was an animated actor. 
His voice was uncommonly sweet, and his 
taste good, but his powers were rather limited. 
He was a good musician, and composed several 
operas performed here subsequently. One 
only was brought out by himself, Piramo e 
Tisbe, in which he acted with a German 
woman named Schindlerin, a weak and mode- 
rate performer. I heard her mentioned with 
praise long afterwards in Germany as one 
of the best singers of their national stage, 
but did not see her. The other operas in 
which these two singers appeared together, 
were Armida and Montezuma, composed by 
Sacchini. In the last, I well remember Rauz- 
zini's acting to have been very fine and 
effective in the dying scene. 

In the second year of Rauzzini's engage- 



4 GABRIELLI. 

ment, Schindlerin was succeeded by the cele- 
brated Catterina Gabrielli, esteemed the best 
prima donna of her time, and famous alike 
for her talents and for her caprice. The latter 
was so great that she could not be depended 
upon ; and it was thought she never gave 
herself the trouble to exert her great powers 
to the utmost before an English audience. 
Certain it is, that, whether from that or some 
other cause, she was less enthusiastically 
admired here than she had been in various 
parts of the continent, and her success was so 
moderate that she staid only for one season. 
I can remember seeing her once in the opera 
of Didone, but can say nothing of her per- 
formance ; all I can recollect of it being the 
care with which she tucked up her great hoop 
as she sidled into the flames of Carthage. 
Another opera she acted here was La Vestale, 
which I likewise saw performed, but on that 
night Catterina chose to be indisposed, and 
to make her sister Francesca take her part ; 
the latter was a miserable performer, whom 



DAVIES. 5 

she carried every where to act as the seconda 
donna, and occasionally as her double. 

On her departure, a young singer named 
Pozzi came to supply her place ; but though 
handsome, and possessing a most brilliant 
clear voice (bel metallo di voce), she was at 
that time so unformed, both as a singer and 
an actress, that she totally failed in her first 
opera ; and Miss Cecilia Davies, who had 
sung here before with Millico, was sent for 
to resume her station for the remainder of the 
season. After this degradation, Pozzi con- 
tinued for some years in this country as the 
second woman, and in that line was superior 
to every other. On her return to Italy, she 
improved rapidly, and soon became one of the 
first singers in that country, as I shall have 
occasion to notice hereafter. Miss Davies, 
who, in Italy, was known by the name of 
L'Inglesina, was the first Englishwoman who 
had yet sustained the part of prima donna, 
and in that situation was second only to Gabri- 
elli, whom she even rivalled in neatness of 



6 RAUZZINI. 

execution. Her elder sister played on the 
harmonica, an improved kind of musical 
glasses ; and in the last edition of Metastasio's 
works is a cantata, written for the one sister 
to sing, the other to accompany on that instru- 
ment. When I was in Italy, I found Miss 
Davies at Florence, unengaged, and poor. 
The English there subscribed for a private 
concert, at which both sisters performed. 
She afterwards came again to England, but 
being passee, did not succeed in obtaining 
an engagement.* 

After Rauzzini quitted the opera, he still 
continued in, or returned shortly to, England, 
and ultimately settled at Bath, where for 
many years he conducted the concerts, singing 
himself as long as his voice permitted, and 
was in great reputation as a master, much 
respected and patronized to his death, which 
happened only a few years ago. 

* This unfortunate woman is now (in 183-1) living 
in London, in the extreme of old age, disease, and 
poverty. 



GALLI. 7 

During part of the time of which I have 
been speaking, the second man was Savoi, 
whose voice was of so singularly beautiful 
and peculiar a tone, that when I was in Italy, 
going by chance into a church at Sienna 
during high mass, I was struck with sounds 
so sweet, yet, as I thought, not new to my 
ear, that I could not help inquiring the name 
of the performer, and found they proceeded 
from Savoi. 

The part of second man was frequently 
filled also by Signora Galli, her figure being 
rather large and masculine, and her voice a 
contralto. She had been a principal singer in 
Handel's oratorios, when conducted by him- 
self. She is however only mentioned here on 
account of some subsequent circumstances of 
her life. She became the companion of the 
celebrated Miss Ray, and was with her when 
she was assassinated by Hackman. That un- 
happy young man, instigated by jealousy, 
though he knew his love to be perfectly hope- 
less, shot her with a pistol as she was entering 



8 GALLI. 

her carriage, at Covent Garden Theatre, and 
then fired a second at himself. Her wound 
was instantly mortal, but his own was slight, 
and he was tried and executed for the murder. 
Galli afterwards fell into extreme poverty, 
and at the age of about seventy, was induced 
to come forward to sing again at the oratorios. 
I had the curiosity to go, and heard her sing 
" He was despised and rejected of men" in 
the Messiah. Of course her voice was cracked 
and trembling, but it was easy to see her 
school was good ; and it was pleasing to observe 
the kindness with which she was received, and 
listened to ; and to mark the animation and 
delight with which she seemed to hear again 
the music in which she had formerly been a 
distinguished performer. The poor old wo- 
man had been in the habit of coming to me 
annually for a trifling present ; and she told 
me on that occasion that nothing but the 
severest distress should have compelled her 
so to expose herself, which after all did 
not answer its end, as she was not paid 



DANZL. 

according to her agreement. She died shortly 
after. 

To return from this digression. At the 
close of Rauzzini's engagement, his place was 
filled by Roncaglia, his inferior in every re- 
spect. His figure was good, and he was far 
from ill-looking ; his voice sweet, and his 
style easy and grazioso : but he was languid, 
feeble, and insipid, and withal extremely af- 
fected. Yet he gave so much pleasure on 
his first appearance, in Sacchini's opera of 
Creso, that as he was under engagement to 
return to Italy the next year, he was hastily 
re-engaged for the next season but one, be- 
fore it was known how his immediate suc- 
cessor would be liked. With him came Danzi 
as first woman. Though her name was Italian, 
she was a German, and had never been in 
Italy. She was young, well-looking, had a 
voice of uncommon clearness and compass, 
capable of the most astonishing execution, 
and was an excellent musician. Yet her 
performance was unsatisfactory, being too 
B 5 




10 AGUIJARI. 

much alia Tedescha, and more like that of an 
instrument than of a human voice. She soon 
after married Monsieur Lebrun, an eminent 
player on the hautbois, which confirmed her 
in the bravura style, as she was in the habit of 
singing songs with an obligato accompaniment 
for that instrument, in which the difficulties 
performed by both were quite astonishing, 
each seeming to vie with the other which 
could go highest, and execute the most rapid 
divisions. After performing in Erifile, also 
by Sacchirii, and other operas, she, as well as 
Roncaglia, left England after one season, but 
like him was re-engaged for the next but one. 
About this time another singer in the won- 
derful line was performing in the concerts at 
the Pantheon, by name Aguijari. I heard 
her in private, but can say only from report 
that her voice was one of the finest and 
most powerful ever heard, and her execution 
almost miraculous. She never performed at 
the opera in this country, where she staid but 
a short time, and was succeeded at the 



GIORGI. 11 

Pantheon by a young, and then very inferior 
singer, with no recommendation but a very 
beautiful voice, promising future excellence. 
This was Giorgi, by which name she was little 
known, but of whom I shall have much, very 
much, to say hereafter, under that of Banti. 

And here ends my dark age in operatical 
history : henceforth I shall speak with con- 
fidence, from the clearest and most distinct 
recollection. 



152 PACCH1EUOTTI. 

SECTION II. 

17781783. 

Pacchierotti Bernasconi Return of Roncaglia and 
Madame Danzi Lebrun Ansani -^- Maccherini 
Return of Pacchierotti Prudom-t-Comic Opera 
\ Sestini (-Todi-ii-Allegranti Viganoni. 

FROM the period on which I am now enter- 
ing I date the commencement of my decided 
taste for music, which (young as I was) I 
now began to love and to feel : for in the 
season of 1778 and 1779, arrived Pacchie- 
rotti, decidedly, in my opinion, the most 
perfect singer it ever fell to my lot to hear. 
I must enter into some detail respecting him. 

Pacchierotti's voice was an extensive so- 
prano, full and sweet in the highest degree ; 
his powers of execution were great, but he 
had far too good taste and too good sense to 
make a display of them where it would have 



PACCHIE11OTT[. 13 

been misapplied, confining it to one bravura 
song (aria di agilita) in each opera, conscious 
that the chief delight of singing, and his own 
supreme excellence, lay in touching expres- 
sion, and exquisite pathos. Yet he was so 
thorough a musician that nothing came amiss 
to him ; every style was to him equally easy, 
and he could sing, at first sight, all songs of 
the most opposite characters, not merely with 
the facility and correctness which a complete 
knowledge of music must give, but entering 
at once into the views of the composer, and 
giving them all the appropriate spirit and 
expression. Such was his genius in his em- 
bellishments and cadences, that their variety 
was inexhaustible. He could not sing a song 
twice in exactly the same way ; yet never did 
he introduce an ornament that was not judi- 
cious, and appropriate to the composition. 
His shake, then considered an indispensable 
requisite, without which no one could be es- 
teemed a perfect singer, was the very best 
that could be heard in every form in which 



14 PACCHIEROTTI. 

that grace can be executed: whether taken 
from above or below, between whole or 
semi- tones, fast or slow, it was always open, 
equal, and distinct, giving the greatest bril- 
liancy to his cadences, and often introduced 
into his passages with the happiest effect.* 
As an actor, with many disadvantages of per- 
son, for he was tall and awkward in his 
figure, and his features were plain, he was 
nevertheless forcible and impressive : for he 
felt warmly, had excellent judgment, and 
was an enthusiast in his profession. His 
recitative was inimitably fine, so that even 
those who did not understand the language 
could not fail to comprehend, from his coun- 
tenance, voice, and action, every sentiment 
he expressed. As a concert singer, and par- 
ticularly in private society, he shone almost 
more than on the stage ; for he sung with 

* This, perhaps the most beautiful of graces, is now 
entirely lost in Italy: not one singer of that country 
so much as attempts it. From the English it still is 
heard, and often in great perfection. 



PACCHIEROTTI. 15 

greater spirit in a small circle of friends, 
and was more gratified with their applause, 
than in a public concert room, or crowded 
theatre. I was in the habit of so hearing him 
most frequently, and having been intimately 
acquainted with him for many years, am en- 
abled to speak thus minutely of his perform- 
ance. On such occasions he would give way 
to his fancy, and seem almost inspired : and 
I have often seen his auditors, even those the 
least musical, moved to tears while he was 
singing. Possessing a very large collection 
of music, he could give an infinite variety of 
songs by every master of reputation. I have 
more than once heard him sing a cantata of 
Haydn's, called Arianna a Naxos, composed 
for a single voice, with only a piano-forte ac- 
companiment, and that was played by Haydn 
himself; it is needless to say the perform- 
ance was perfect. To this detail of his merits, 
and peculiar qualities as a singer, I must 
add, that he was a worthy, good man, modest 
and diffident even to a fault ; for it was to 



16 BEUNASCONI. 

an excess that at times checked his exertions, 
and made him dissatisfied with himself, when 
he had given the greatest delight to his 
hearers. He was unpresuming in his man- 
ners, grateful and attached to all his numerous 
friends and patrons. 

The first appearance of Pacchierotti in this 
country, was in Demofoonte (a pasticcio), in 
which he sung four songs in different styles, 
by as many different composers, which showed 
his versatile talents to the greatest advantage, 
and at once established his reputation. 

The first woman, who made also her first 
appearance in this opera, was Bernasconi, a 
good musician, and correct skilful singer ; 
but her voice was not powerful, and she was 
past her prime : she was a good actress, with 
but an indifferent figure. The tenor, a Ger- 
man, named Ademberger, had a disagreeable 
nasal voice, but sung with considerable science. 
In this opera, Pozzi was second woman, 
and a young man with a good bass voice, 
made his debut as ultima parte. This was 



BERNASCOXI. 17 

Rovedino, who passed the greatest part of 
his life in tin's country, and was employed 
at the opera till he quitted the stage, proving, 
if not a first rate, at least a useful performer, 
both in serious and comic operas. He died 
at an advanced age some years ago, leaving 
several children, all musical. One of his 
daughters, who is dead, was for a long time 
second woman ; she married Weichsell, the 
brother of Mrs. Billington, and celebrated 
violin player, who at a subsequent period led 
the orchestra for many years. 

In consequence of the re-engagement of 
the singers of the former season, Pacchierotti 
went away at the end of this, in the summer 
of 1779, but Bernasconi remained for one 
more, condescending (for then it was so 
esteemed) to take the part of first woman 
in the comic opera, which she performed ad- 
mirably : Danzi, now become Madame Le- 
brun, being again the prima donna for the 
serious, and Roncaglia resuming his place, 
but with far different success from the first 



18 ANSANI. 

time. Coming after Pacchierotti, his insi- 
pidity and poverty were more apparent, and 
not so well endured. To add to his disgrazia, 
Ansani, a new tenor, then made his first ap- 
pearance, and quite eclipsed the primo uomo. 
This performer had a finely toned, full, and 
commanding voice, was a spirited actor, and 
in the first opera, called Ricimero, sustained 
the most prominent and important part. But 
he was unfortunately of a most peevish, 
quarrelsome temper ; Roncaglia was saucy 
and conceited, and neither could brook the 
superiority claimed by the other. Their mu- 
tual jealousy, and the importance assumed by 
the tenor, soon produced an irreconcileable 
breach, Ansani threw up his engagement, and 
the season went on heavily to its close for 
want of him. When it was ended, Roncaglia 
went away. 

The next season was far more brilliant, 
indeed one of the best I ever remember. Pac- 
chierotti returned, Madame Lebrun retained, 
Ansani restored to his situation (willingly 



MACCHERINI. 19 

yielding the pas to Pacchierotti's undisputed 
pre-eminence), Pozzi second woman, and 
Manzoletto, a very tolerable singer for second 
man, formed altogether a capital company, 
and its success was proportionable to its 
merit. 

The three or four following seasons were 
not equally successful. Pacchierotti indeed 
remained, but Madame Lebrun went away, 
nor was her place ever well filled during the 
rest of his stay, which was prolonged to the 
end of the season of 1 784. Her first successor 
was Maccherini, whose reputation was high in 
Italy. She was the wife of Ansani, but never 
couple was less harmonious ; her temper was 
full as bad as his, and they never could agree, 
either on or off the stage. She not arriving 
in time for the beginning of the season, Pru- 
dom, a young singer engaged in lieu of Pozzi 
for second woman, was put temporarily into 
her place. At length the long expected and 
much praised Maccherini made her appear- 
ance, and never was expectation more com- 



20 PRUDOM. 

pletely disappointed. Her voice was a mere 
thread, scarcely audible yj the orchestra, and 
her performance in every respect (like her 
countenance) miserable in the extreme : so 
that she was laid aside for ever after a few 
nights, and a fine opera called Giunio Bruto, 
in which her husband and Pacchierotti played 
the parts of the father and son, necessarily 
abandoned. Her failure was, of course, attri- 
buted to the climate, which it was said had 
destroyed her voice ; but I heard her a few 
years after in Italy, when she had not in the 
least recovered it, so that it may be presumed 
it never had existed. Prudom again took the 
first place for the remainder of the season, and 
gave great pleasure by the sweetness of her 
voice, and her chaste good style of singing. 
She was too young to be a finished or scien- 
tific performer, but had she lived might have 
become one ; unfortunately she died here at 
a very early age. For a time she sung at 
Drury Lane Theatre, where she first appeared 
in the Lord of the Manor. I mention this 






PRCDOM. 21 

only to record the singular circumstance that 
in this opera the celebrated Miss Farren, who 
continues to be as^mch respected and be- 
loved in the high rank she now holds in 
society as she was admired when at the height 
of her professional excellence, performed a 
secondary part both as actress and singer. 
The latter character she soon abandoned, but 
many still remember with delight, and all 
must have heard of, her unrivalled talents as 
the first of comic actresses. When she left 
the stage, genteel comedy became extinct.* 

To return to the opera. The next attempt 
to procure a first woman proved almost as un- 
successful as the last, Morigi (daughter of a 
buffo of that name then in England), being 
nearly as feeble as her predecessor. Another 
was tried in her stead, but all to no purpose. 
A third, named Lusini, had little better suc- 
cess in the following season, but her I never 

* She has now left the stage of the world. The 
Countess of Derby died a few years ago, as much 
lamented as she was beloved. 



2% PACCHIEROTT1. 

heard, having gone abroad for two years in the 
summer of 1783. 

The operas most admired during the seasons 
I have been speaking of, were the Rinaldo of 
Sacchini, 1'Olimpiade, and Ezio, pasticcios, 
Quinto Fabio by Bertoni, master of the Con- 
servatorio dei Mendicanti at Venice, 1'Eroe 
Cinese by Rauzzini, and others which do not 
occur to me, or which I never heard. 

Most of these were sustained by Pacchie- 
rotti's talents alone, for, as has been shown, 
he was in general miserably supported. Yet 
the managers deserved not all the blame that 
was thrown upon them, and were less in fault 
than unfortunate in the failure of so many 
prima donnas. The fact was, that there was 
at that time no very great female singer in 
Italy, those of former celebrity being on the 
decline, and only two young promising per- 
formers rising to eminence in their stead. 
These were Pozzi, who returned no more to 
England, and Giorgi Banti, as she was called 
after her marriage, whose name began to be 



SESTINI. >i;> 

talked of, and who shortly after became so 
justly famous. 

I must now, before I proceed farther, re- 
turn back to my earliest recollections, in order 
to give some account of the comic opera, 
which hitherto I have not noticed, that the 
more important department might not be 
interrupted.* 

The earliest singer I remember in that line 
was Sestini, who at her first coming over was 
handsome, sprightly, and a good actress, if 
great exuberance of gesticulation, activity of 
motion, and affected Italian smorfie could make 
her one ; but her voice was gritty and sharp 
(something like singing through a comb), and 
she was nothing of a singer, except for lively 
comic airs. Yet she was much liked at first, 
and long a favourite with the mass of the 

* The company for the comic opera consisted of the 
primo buffo, tenor, prima buffa, buffo caricato, bass, 
seconda buffa, and ultima parte, bass. There were also 
the uomo serio, and donna seria, generally the second 
man and woman of the serious opera. 



524 SESTINI. 

public, though not with the connoisseurs. She 
was first woman for many years, then, in the 
decline of her voice, became second ; sung 
at intervals at Covent Garden and the little 
theatre in the Haymarket ; in short, conde- 
scended to every thing to keep herself from 
starving, and constantly remaining in England, 
died here at last in great poverty. 

The first buffo with Sestini was Trebbi, a 
moderately good performer, who occasionally 
was employed also as tenor in the serious 
opera, when others failed, as on the defection 
of Ansani, and the death of a young man 
of great promise who sung in the time of 
Rauzzini. 

One of the most favourite operas in which 
these singers performed was, La Buona Figli- 
uola of Piccini, the music of which was charm- 
ing, but it had been so much better sung 
before by Guadagni and Lovattini, that nothing 
was heard but lamentations for their loss, and 
comparisons to the disadvantage of the present 
performers. Lovattini was celebrated for the 



SESTINI. 25 

most beautiful of tenor voices, and for his ex- 
cellent acting. I never heard him, though he 
did not, I believe, leave England till the end 
of the season of 1 774 ; but I saw in the pave- 
ment of a church at Bologna, a small square 
stone, inscribed with the three words, " Qui 
giace Lovattini." Guadagni was sister of a 
singer, of whom I shall have occasion to speak 
hereafter. The buffo caricalo was Morigi, 
who then was excellent. He returned to 
England, and passed many years here, per- 
forming till he had lost his voice. 

The Buona Figliuola was revived very many 
years after by Catalani ; but the taste was so 
changed, that the old music, rather quaint 
and odd, it must be confessed, to modern ears, 
was no longer relished, and did not succeed. 
It was but indifferently sung, even by that 
great singer herself. 

Paesiello's Frascatana, another opera of 
that time, has always had better success : the 
music is de tout age, and has given great plea- 
sure in many subsequent revivals by Storace, 
c 



20 ALLEGRANTI. 

Catalan!, and other singers ; and it ever must 
do so to all (though small is now the number) 
who can yet admire simple and natural me- 
lody. Such was the estimation in which this 
opera was held in Italy, that I have been told 
it was always brought forward on the failure 
of any new one, as sure to appease a dissa- 
tisfied audience. 

When the public began to tire of Sestini, 
Todi was engaged in her stead, but failed to 
please here, though admired on the continent, 
and was kept only one season. A tenor named 
Jermoli was equally unsuccessful. Bernas- 
coni then became first buffa for one year, with 
Trebbi, and Pozzi was occasionally put into 
first parts, particularly in Gretry's Zemire et 
Azor (to Italian words), with Manzoletto as 
first man, and Rovedino for the bass. 

These moderate performers were at length 
succeeded by one who was enthusiastically 
admired in her first opera, the Viaggiatori 
Felici of Anfossi, by name Allegranti. She 
had a voice which, though thin, was extremely 



VIGANONI. 27 

sweet, of extraordinary compass upwards, and 
so flexible that she executed with ease very 
rapid divisions, and consequently indulged in 
a flowery style of singing, which had the merit 
of considerable novelty : she was also a good 
actress. But it was soon found that there 
was a great sameness in her manner and 
embellishments, and with more than our usual 
fickleness, she was less liked in every subse- 
quent opera, and so disregarded by the end of 
the second season that she went away. With 
her had come Viganoni, who at that time made 
little effect, and also left the country ; but 
after an absence of some years he returned, 
and for many more was first tenor both in the 
serious and comic opera. He will be men- 
tioned more particularly hereafter. 

These performers were replaced by others 
very much their inferiors, but I never heard 
them, as they remained only one season, during 
which I was abroad. The woman's name was 
Dorta ; the tenor of no reputation ; but Tasca, 



28 VIGANONI. 

a bass, was good enough to be retained for a 
year or two more. 

I must here break off my account of the 
opera at home, and before I resume it, will 
relate the principal musical occurrences of my 
tour on the continent. 



FOREIGN TOUR. 29 



SECTION III. 

17831785. 

Musical occurrences in a Tour through Germany, 
France, and Italy Return to England Short notice 
of the Opera Commemoration of Handel in West- 
minster Abbey. 

THE first place at which I made any stay 
was Spa, where the national and theatrical 
music could afford no pleasure ; but it so 
chanced that Pacchierotti came thither also 
at the same time to pass a few weeks during 
the opera recess, and I had the gratification 
of hearing him sing in private almost daily, 
which was always a delightful treat. He gave 
one public concert, but it was not so well 
attended, nor himself as much admired as he 
deserved to be, which was hardly to be won- 
dered at, considering that a great part of the 



30 GERMANY. 

audience was French, who then could like no 
music but their own. 

Proceeding into Germany, the first Italian 
opera I heard was at Brunswick, where there 
was a company of second-rate performers, of 
whom, however, the first man and woman 
were very tolerable. During my short stay 
they acted a serious and a comic opera : the 
former was the Giulio Sabino of Sarti, which 
I shall have to notice more particularly. 

At Berlin there was a company of a superior 
description, in the constant pay of the king, 
but no operas were ever acted except in the 
carnival. The first woman of it was Todi, 
whom we had so lightly esteemed ; but who 
was there spoken of with rapture. I had no 
opportunity of hearing her, but had that of 
seeing the first man, Concialini, next to whom 
I found myself seated at a table d'hote. He 
too was often spoken of with great praise. 

At Dresden there was a very good comic 
opera, headed by Allegranti, who remained 
a permanent favourite there as long as the 



GERMANY. 31 

court could afford to keep up that spectacle : 
and happy would it have been for her if she 
had never been obliged to leave that place ; 
for, many years after, she in an evil hour 
came again to England, and re-appeared in 
Cimarosa's Matrimonio Segreto. Never was 
there a more pitiable attempt : she had scarce- 
ly a thread of voice remaining, nor the power 
to sing a note in tune : her figure and acting 
were equally altered for the worse, and after 
a few nights she was obliged to retire, and 
quit the stage altogether. Of course again 
our climate, not her age, was blamed for the 
total loss of her voice ; but she was at least 
remembered to have had one, and was looked 
upon only with compassion. 

In passing through Prague, I heard an opera 
performed by singers almost below medio- 
crity, but the opera itself was so delightful 
that it could not but give pleasure. It was 
Le Nozze di Dorina; or, Frk due litigani il 
terzo gode, the chef-d'oeuvre of Sarti in the 
buffo, as Giulio Sabino is in the serious style. 



> GEItMANY. 

I often heard both afterwards executed in a 
very different manner. 

At Vienna, where I passed all the winter, 
there was no serious opera, but a most ex- 
cellent set of singers for the comic, consisting 
of Ademberger and Viganoni, who had been 
in England, Benucci and Kelly, who afterwards 
came thither, Mandini, an excellent buffo, and 
Storace, first woman, with several very good 
both male and female performers for the se- 
condary parts. Storace in a few years after 
returned to this her native country, which 
she never left again. She will be frequently 
named, and her merits detailed, at a future 
period. I also there heard once more Ber- 
nasconi, who had settled in that city, not 
engaged at the opera ; but she gave a few 
representations, at a theatre not usually open, 
of the Alceste and Ifigenia in Tauride of 
Gluck, both of which were subsequently per- 
formed at our opera, and of a comic opera 
called La Contadina in Corte, which she had 
acted here with success. 



ITALY. iiO 

After spending the winter at Vienna, I went 
in the spring of 1784 to Venice, for the fair of 
the Ascension, on which occasion there is 
always an opera, but this year it was very 
moderate. Porri, the first man, was a very 
indifferent singer, and a German named Fis- 
cher and his wife, who were the tenor and 
first woman, not much better. The opera 
performed was Ademira, by Tarchi. 

But if the theatrical performances disap- 
pointed me, I received very high gratification 
from attending those of the Conservatorio dei 
Mendicanti, where, on the evenings of Sun- 
days and holy-days, oratorios were performed 
in the chapel. Not only all the vocal, but the 
instrumental parts were executed by women, 
concealed from view in a grated gallery. Their 
performance was perfect, and some of the 
voices exquisitely beautiful, in every pitch of 
which the female organ is capable. The ora- 
torio I heard was that of Sampson, in Latin, 
the composition of Bertoni, by whose favour 
a party of English was admitted into the 
c 5 



34 ITALY. 

interior, to a morning concert, when we had 
not only the pleasure of hearing a delightful 
selection of music, but the almost incredible 
sight of an entire orchestra of female per- 
formers. There were at this time four of these 
musical academies at Venice, of which that 
of the Mendicanti was esteemed the best, on 
account of the excellence of its master. The 
young women educated in them rarely went 
upon the stage when they quitted the es- 
tablishment, but I have met with more than 
one female player on the violin who had 
received their instruction in them. 

I must here add that in other towns of 
Italy, particularly at Florence and Rome, I 
derived great pleasure from the performance 
of similar sacred dramas in the chapels of 
the Padri del Oratorio. 

In passing through Padua, I went to a grand 
mass in the church of St. Antonio, when, it 
being Whit Sunday, and of course a festival, 
I had the good fortune to hear a motetto, or 
anthem, sung by Guadagni, of whom I had 



ITALY. 35 

heard very much, as he had for a long time 
been a great favourite in England, which he 
left in the year 1771. When he sung as first 
man at our opera he was uncommonly hand- 
some, and a remarkably good actor ; Garrick 
himself having taken pains to instruct him. 
His voice was then a soprano of the finest 
description, and his performance, particularly 
of Orfeo, was described as having been 
delightful. He was now advanced in years, 
and sung as contralto : his voice was still full 
and well toned, and his style appeared to me 
excellent. He belonged to the choir of the 
church in which I heard him, where alone he 
ever sung, and that only on a few particular 
occasions. As he retained a great partiality 
for England, and had been much noticed by 
my family, he no sooner heard I was in the 
town than he came to call upon me, and in- 
sisted on my taking coffee at his house, where 
he entertained me, not with singing, which I 
should have liked much better, but with ex- 
hibiting fantoccini on a little stage, in which 



36 ITALY. 

he took great delight. I learnt lately that 
he died one year after I saw him. 

Quitting Italy for the summer, 1 went to 
Paris, where, as there was at that time no 
Italian Opera, music could give me little plea- 
sure. Though some of the lighter French 
pieces are pretty, the grand opera to all ears 
but French can only give pain. The principal 
singer, Madlle. Saint-Huberti, was absent, but 
I found her at Lyons, where I saw her per- 
form several times. She was a fine actress, 
and in her singing a little less violent and 
extravagant than the generality of French 
singers, but still had too much of the national 
style. I heard her once more in private many 
years after, in England, when she was become 
Comtesse d'Entragues, and an emigree. Her 
voice, then moderated to the room, and pro- 
bably weakened by age, was far from dis- 
agreeable, and she was a very good musician. 
Her end was shocking. She and the Count, 
her husband, were both assassinated at 
their villa at Barnes by an Italian servant, 



ITALY. 01 

who immediately destroyed himself, being 
prompted to the deed by malice, not by the 
desire of plunder. She left one son, now 
Comte d'Entragues. 

During my slay at Paris, one Concert spiri- 
tuel took place in the old theatre of the Tuil- 
leries, at which, for the first time, I heard 
Madame Mara, just then returned from Eng- 
land, where she had performed at the com- 
memoration of Handel, at Westminster Abbey. 
Amongst other things, she sung, " I know 
that my Redeemer liveth," which was an- 
nounced in the bills as being musique de 
Handel, paroles de Milton. The French had 
not the taste to like it. A full account will 
be given hereafter of that singer. 

I re-entered Italy in the following autumn, 
and landing at Leghorn from Genoa, found 
an opera in that town, but it was very indif- 
ferent, with Porri for first man, Scovelli, a 
bad tenor, whom I had left in England, and a 
woman not worth remembering. 

At Florence, the opera was no better, nor 



38 ITALY. 

can I recollect the name of any one of the 
singers except Bruni, the first man, who after- 
wards sung for one season in England. 

In the beginning of the carnival at Rome, 
four or five theatres were opened, of which 
two were for serious operas. There I found 
both Roncaglia and Ansani, but now they 
could not clash, being at different theatres ; 
the former at that of Argentina, with an ex- 
cellent tenor, Mombelli, the latter at the 
Aliberti, with Porri for first man. The opera 
performed at the last was Giunio Bruto, which 
came to so untimely an end here. At that 
time no female was permitted to appear on 
the stage at Rome in any character whatever, 
operatic, dramatic, or dancing. In the singing 
parts, therefore, sopranos were employed 
as their substitutes, generally the youngest, 
and, consequently, not the best, being chosen 
for their looks rather than their ability. At 
one of the smaller theatres, however, the 
part of first woman in an intermezzo, per- 
formed between the acts of a comedy, was 



ITALY. 39 

filled by a very promising young singer, 
named Martini, who became in time one of 
the best first men, and from his birth-place, 
Sienna, was known by the name of Senesino : 
he never came to this country. 

At length I had the good fortune to hear 
a thorough good opera at Naples, where the 
principal singers at the theatre of San Carlo 
were Pozzi, first woman, Rubinelli, first man, 
and David, tenor, all excellent in their re- 
spective lines ; but I shall not enter on their 
merits here, as I shall have a future oppor- 
tunity of doing so. The opera was Antigono, 
composed by Paesiello. At the Theatre dei 
Fiorentini, where comic operas were acted, 
the first woman was Coltellini, most justly 
the favourite of the Neapolitans ; for she was 
very pretty, a most excellent actress, and 
though no great singer, so adapted herself to 
their taste by singing popular airs in their 
barbarous jargon, that faceva furore. Her 
dancing the national dance, the tarantella, was 
beautiful. The buffo who acted with her, 



40 ITALY. 

by name Casacciello, a man of enormous cor- 
pulence, could speak, I believe, nothing but 
Neapolitan patois, at least he sung nothing 
else. Coltellini never quitted Naples but 
once, on an engagement to Vienna ; but 
neither there, nor at several places where she 
performed on her journey, did she meet with 
equal success. She was nevertheless an en- 
chanting performer. There were two other 
theatres for comic operas ; at the one, were 
Benini, as first woman, and her husband Men- 
gozzi, whom I shall have occasion to notice 
at our own opera ; at the other was nobody 
worth remembering, except Rovedino. 

During Lent, when none but sacred dramas 
were allowed, the oratorio of Jephthah was 
acted at the Theatre del Fondo, and the 
principal parts well sustained by Benini, 
Mengozzi, and Rovedino, the music very 
good, but I forget the composer. Benini 
sung sweetly a most beautiful pathetic air as 
she was going to be sacrificed. I also heard 
at Naples a singer retired from the stage, 



ITALY. 



41 



called Aprile, who had been famous in his 
youth. 

Returning through Rome, I attended all 
the ceremonies of the holy week, which I 
need not describe, but I cannot pass over 
wholly in silence, the music in the Pope's 
chapel, though so well known. The Mise- 
rere, in particular, sung on three evenings 
at the office of Le Tenebre, has long been 
esteemed one of the finest of performances ; 
but no one can imagine the effect produced 
by the perfect union of the finest voices, pro- 
ceeding from concealed performers, in such 
a place, nearly in darkness, with all the im- 
posing circumstances with which it is accom- 
panied, but those who have heard it. Nothing 
can be more affecting or sublime. At that 
time, the first singer was Cristoferi, no longer 
a young man, but still possessing a beautiful 
voice. All the choir are tonsures, and wear 
the ecclesiastical habit ; they are not per- 
mitted to sing at any theatre, but I heard 
Cristoferi often in private, and at the ora- 



42 ITALY. 

torios before alluded to. The grand mass in 
St. Peter's, on Easter Sunday, is performed by 
the same singers, and like the music in the 
Sistine chapel, without any instrument what- 
ever, not even the organ, none being ever 
used where the Pope is present. 

The spring being the season for fairs in Italy, 
at which there is always an opera, I heard 
several in my journey northward, of which 
two deserve to be particularly mentioned. 

The first of these was at Mantua, to which 
place I went for the express purpose of hear- 
ing the celebrated Marchesi, who will receive 
due notice and praise hereafter. The first 
woman was Pozzi, of whom, at parting I must 
observe, that although she had deservedly 
risen to the head of her profession, was a good 
singer, and had a voice of uncommon clear- 
ness and brilliancy, yet its tones were so bird- 
like, and there was such a want of feeling in 
her manner both of singing and acting, that 
she was on the whole a cold and uninteresting 
performer. The tenor was Scovelli, the second 



ITALY. 43 

man Manzoletto, who had been at Naples in 
the carnival. The opera was Arminio, by 
Tarchi, composed expressly for Marchesi, with 
whose performance I was very much pleased. 

At Reggio I heard for the first time that 
first of singers Band, of whom I shall speak 
at length when I have to give the account of 
her long residence in England. She was per- 
forming in Sarti's Opera of Medonte, with 
Porri (who so haunted me) and Ansani ; but 
unfortunately the latter was ill, and could not 
sing the night I was there, so that the opera 
was acted without the part of Medonte. 
Band's singing however was delightful. 

This was my bonne bouche, and the last mu- 
sic I heard in Italy, the great theatres of Milan 
and Turin not being open when I passed 
through those towns. Upon the whole I was 
surprised at hearing so little very good in that 
country, and still more so at the extreme bad- 
ness of much which I have passed over 
unnoticed. At the small towns, such as 
Nice, Trieste, and others, there were operas, 



44 ITALY. 

if indeed they deserved that name, for the 
singers were little better than those of the 
streets, and would not have been tolerated for 
a moment in England. But the passion for 
music cannot be so great in that land of song 
as we are apt to suppose : for on inquiring in 
any town if the opera was good, I was uni- 
formly answered, Oh! si; bellissimi balli.' 
and indeed in general the dances are more 
thought of, and attended to in greater silence, 
than the opera itself, in which, if there is one, 
or at most two good performers, and as many 
good songs, it is quite sufficient, and the rest 
may be as bad as possible without giving any 
offence.* Yet the ballets are both long and 
wearisome in the extreme, absolute tragedies 
in pantomime (I saw Romeo and Juliet danced); 
while nothing is so delightful as a really good 
opera. 

* I believe this is in some degree altered since the 
great revolution in operatic performances, for reasons 
which will be assigned when speaking of modern 
operas. 



RETURN TO ENGLAND. 45 

The accounts I received during this time of 
the opera in England, were extremely un- 
favourable ; yet the Italians assured me that it 
possessed some of their best singers in Cres- 
centini, Babbini, and la Ferrarese, who then 
composed the company. If so, they were very 
ill judged of and ill treated here, for Crescen- 
tini was thought so moderate a performer, and 
so little liked, that before the season was half 
over, he was superseded by Tenducci (who 
very many years before had sung, chiefly as 
second man) in Gluck's Orfeo. But the per- 
formance of an old man, who had never been 
very capital, and could now have scarcely any 
voice left, and that too in a part in which many 
still remembered Guadagni, was not likely to 
prove very attractive.* Rauzzini then re- 
appeared in an opera of his own composing, 
called La Regina di Golconda, a drama in the 
French style, intermixed with dances, there 

* I had heard Tenducci in concerts before I left 
England, but his voice was then cracked, and I did not 
like him. He sung this year in Westminster Abbey. 



46 COMMEMORATION OF HAXDEL 

being an unusually numerous and fine set of 
dancers that year. But nothing succeeded ; 
in spite of all efforts, the manager became a 
bankrupt, and the theatre was prematurely 
closed before the usual end of the season. 

It is but justice to Crescentini to add, that 
when he was here he was very young, and 
had not attained that excellence which has 
since gained him the reputation of a first-rate 
singer. He never returned to this country. 

I did not reach England till near the end 
of the summer of 1785, long after the opera- 
house had been shut up, and not in time to be 
present at the great musical festival which 
had taken place (for the second time) in 
Westminster Abbey. Though I did not there- 
fore hear any of those surprising performances 
till the following spring, yet it may be con- 
venient to give some account of them in this 
place, that I may not interrupt that of the 
opera when resumed. 

The first performance of these concerts was 
in commemoration of Handel, in the prece- 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 47 

ding year (1784); on which occasion they 
gave such universal satisfaction, particularly 
to their Majesties, under whose patronage 
they took place, that they were repeated for 
several years following, and always with equal 
success. The orchestra, in the first year, when 
it was the smallest, consisted of between five 
and six hundred performers, vocal and instru- 
mental. The number was annually increased, 
till it amounted to near a thousand. Yet 
such was the admirable manner in which this 
prodigious band was conducted by Mr. Bates 
at the organ, and Cramer as leader, that not 
even the smallest ever executed music with 
greater precision. It was as one instrument. 
To facilitate the execution in both depart- 
ments, the long movement (now in common 
use) was for the first time applied to the 
organ, which placing Mr. Bates much below 
and at a great distance from the instrument, 
while Cramer stood between it and the con- 
ductor, enabled both to see, and act in perfect 
concert with each other. It also put Mr. Bates 



48 COMMEMORATION OF HANDEL 

into such a position that he could see not onh 
every instrumental performer ranged in front 
but all the chorus singers occupying the aislei 
on each side, 10 give force and fullness tc 
the orchestra, larger instruments were alsc 
invented, and made expressly for this occa- 
sion ; double kettle drums, bass trumpets 
and trcmbones, and even double double-basses 
all of which added surprisingly to the har- 
mony, and were indeed necessary to make 
the bass sufficiently powerful to counter- 
balance so vast a band of violins. The cho- 
russes too were performed with equal ex- 
cellence, under the direction of the most able 
musical professors. The first singer on all 
these occasions, was Madame Mara, who had 
come to England to sing at the Pantheon 
concerts. All the best Italian as well as 
English singers were engaged. The music 
was confined to that of Handel, the burst of 
one of whose chorusses caused a general 
thrill, and was sublime beyond imagination. 
Yet from the vastness of that venerable pile, 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 49 

never was the fullest piece of music in the 
least degree too loud even to those who were 
near the orchestra, while its construction was 
so favourable to sound, that Mara's single 
voice, or Cramer's single fiddle, were heard 
most distinctly in every part. It was re- 
markable that even the tuning of this im- 
mense band, generally so discordant, accom- 
panied as it was by the full chords of a noble 
organ, produced a fine and harmonious effect. 
On the whole, it was acknowledged by all, 
even by foreigners, that no performance was 
ever heard so perfect, or so surprising. The 
sight too was striking and beautiful. The 
vast space and solemnity of the building, the 
king and queen, with all the royal family and 
their court, occupying one end, the enormous 
orchestra, with its magnificent organ, at the 
other, filling up the whole space, even to 
the top of the arches, and the thousands of 
full-dressed auditors ranged on the floor, and 
in galleries constructed over the side aisles, 
all listening in breathless silence (a silence 



50 COMMEMORATION OF HANDEL. 

almost devotional, and never broken by that 
applause which would have misbecome the 
sanctity of the place), formed altogether a 
spectacle at once interesting and imposing.* 

* Within the last few years, two performances on the 
same plan have taken place in York Minster, which 
rivalled, and it is said, almost equalled their model ; 
but there was no Mara to head the vocal department. 
On the first occasion, Catalani sung, whose voice must 
have filled the vast space, and been heard there to 
great advantage. On the second, there was no female 
singer of great note, or of sufficient power. 



MARA. 



51 



SECTION IV. 

17861792. 

Madame Mara Babbini Rubinelli -4- Benini and 
Mengozzi -+- Storace Morelli Marchesi Burning 
of the King's Theatre Opera at the Little Theatre in 
the Haymarket Concert at the Pantheon Pacchi- 
erotti returned Opera at the Pantheon Perform- 
ances at the King's Theatre in the Haymarket 
David Burning of the Pantheon Opera at the Little 
Theatre. 

I NOW proceed to the revival of the opera 
after its unfortunate interruption. 

With no small difficulty arrangements were 
at length made for re-opening the theatre in 
the beginning of the year 1786 ; but no new 
performers having arrived from Italy, the 
company was not completed till the middle 
of the season, which began with Madame 
Mara as first woman (and for a time the sole 



52 MARA. 

support of the opera) her first appearance on 
the stage. There being no first man, the tenor 
Babbini filled that part, and his own was 
consigned to Tasca, the "bass who had played 
in the comic opera of the preceding year. 
There was a very good second soprano, named 
Bartolini, who, as well as Tasca, had sung at 
the commemoration. The first opera was 
Didone, a pasticcio, for which Mara had made 
a very judicious selection of songs, introducing 
four of very different characters, by Sacchini, 
Piccini, and other composers, all of which were 
so much and so equally admired, that two were 
encored every night, each of them receiving 
that mark of approbation in its turn. Mara's 
talents as a singer (for she was no actress, 
and had a bad person for the stage) were of 
the very first order. Her voice clear, sweet, 
distinct, was sufficiently powerful, though 
rather thin, and its agility and flexibility ren- 
dered her a most excellent bravura singer, 
in which style she was unrivalled; but she 
succeeded equally well in some of Handel's 



MA It A. 53 

most solemn and pathetic songs, though there 
appeared to be a want of that feeling in her- 
self, which, nevertheless, she could communi- 
cate to her hearers. Her performance in this 
opera was perfect, and gave entire satisfaction. 
She next revived an opera of Sacchini, called 
Perseo, which had been produced in the time 
of Millico and Miss Davies, whose style of 
singing was much the same. In this too the 
first man's part was performed by Babbini, of 
whom, notwithstanding the favourable report 
I had heard of him, I cannot say much in 
praise. He might be a good singer, as far as 
knowledge of music could make him one, but 
he was unequal to producing much effect, from 
the weakness of his voice, which it seemed a 
painful effort to him to exert. 

The late first woman Ferrarese del Bene, 
who had been also much extolled to me, was 
but a very moderate performer. She was this 
year degraded to prima buffa, but even in that 
subordinate line was so ineffective, that Ses 
tini was recalled to strengthen the company. 



54 RUBINELLI. 

But all in vain : the comic opera was little 
liked, and no more thought of after the arrival 
of Rubinelli in the spring. 

That excellent singer (who has been named 
before) possessed a contralto voice of fine 
quality, but limited compass. It was full, 
round, firm, and steady in slow movements, 
but had little agility, nor did he attempt to 
do more than he could execute perfectly. 
His style was the true cantabile, in which 
few could excel him : his taste was admirable, 
and his science great ; his figure tall and 
commanding, his manner and action solemn 
and dignified. In short, he must be reckoned, 
if not the first, yet of the first class of fine 
singers. The opera he chose for his debut 
was Virginia by Tarchi, which was received 
with the highest applause. 

In the following year Mara, Rubinelli, and 
Babbini remained for the serious opera, and 
several new ones were produced ; Alceste by 
Gresnich (Metastasio's Demetrio), La Ves- 
tale by Rauzzini, Armida by Mortellari, and 



KUBINELLI. 55 

in order to induce the king to visit the 
theatre called his own, but which he seldom 
frequented, the Giulio Cesare of Handel was 
revived, or rather a medley from his Italian 
works, for little of the original music was 
retained, and many of his most favourite songs 
from other operas were introduced, Verdi 
prati, Dove sei, Rendi sereno il ciglio, and 
others. This ancient music was particularly 
suited to Rubinelli, and was familiar to Mara, 
both of whom sung it incomparably well. 
Nothing could be finer than the delivery of 
the famous recitative Alma del gran Pompeo 
by the former. But in the inferior parts it 
was miserably executed, and the effect was 
absolutely ludicrous. It, however, answered 
the end proposed ; The king came two or 
three times to hear it, and it was pretty gene- 
rally liked by the public : at least it filled 
the house by attracting the exclusive lovers 
of the old style, who held cheap all other 
operatical performances. 

While such was the flourishing state of the 



56 BEKINI. 

serious opera, the comic underwent a total 
change much for the better, and began to 
regain popularity, especially towards the close 
of the season. At the beginning of it, Benini 
and Mengozzi, whom I have mentioned be- 
fore, came to fill the first parts. The former 
had a voice of exquisite sweetness, and a 
finished taste and neatness in her manner of 
singing ; but she had so little power, that she 
could not be heard to advantage in so large a 
theatre : her performance in a small one was 
perfect. Though from this want of strength 
she was generally confined to comic operas, 
yet her appearance and style seemed much 
more adapted to the serious, for which she 
had sufficient feeling and expression, as I had 
witnessed in her excellent performance of 
Jephthah's daughter ; and during an indispo- 
sition of Mara she filled with great sweetness, 
and much more appropriate figure and manner, 
her part of Virginia. Indeed she had not that 
gaiety of countenance nor vivacity of manner 
requisite for a prima buffa. Her husband, 



MORELLI. 57 

Mengozzi, was a good tenor, but also wanted 
power. This climate really disagreed with 
him, and injured his voice, so that he was 
prevented by illness from appearing in the 
first opera with Benini, nor did he ever quite 
recover all the powers he possessed. This 
was a very great disadvantage to her, his 
substitute being execrable. 

Both these singers, of very considerable 
merit, if they had had a better opportunity of 
displaying it, were superseded in the spring 
of this year (1787) by the arrival of Storace 
and MorelJi, who came out in Gli Schiavi per 
amore, a very pretty opera of Paesiello's, in 
which Sestini performed the second woman's 
part, and Morigi, who had long been the first 
buffo caricato, became second to Morelli. 
This opera was universally admired, and ran 
without any change to the end of the season. 
Morelli had a bass voice of great power, and 
good quality, and he was a very good actor. 
Having been running footman to Lord Cowper 
at Florence, he could not be a great musician. 
D 5 



58 STORAGE. 

He continued for many years in great favour, 
and sung occasionally at the opera till he had 
scarcely a tone left : but he was always 
received kindly, as an old and deserving 
servant of the public. 

Storace was by birth, and parentage on her 
mother's side, English, but went early to 
Italy, and was never heard in this country 
till her reputation as the first buffa of her 
time was fully established. She had a harsh- 
ness in her countenance, a clumsiness of 
figure, a coarseness in her voice, and a vulga- 
rity of manner, that totally unfitted her for 
the serious opera, which she never attempted. 
But her knowledge of music was equal to 
any thing, and she could sing well in every 
style, as was proved by her performances in 
Westminster Abbey, where she sung with 
the best effect : in my opinion she rarely ap- 
peared to greater advantage, for in that space 
the harsh part of her voice was lost, while its 
power and clearness filled the whole of it. In 
her own particular line on the stage she was 



STOIIACK. 59 

unrivalled, being an excellent actress, as well 
as a masterly singer. She settled entirely in 
England, and after quitting the opera (to 
which she was frequently recalled in times 
of distress, when the performers engaged 
proved bad, as was too often the case), 
she engaged at Drury Lane, where the Eng- 
lish opera was raised to an excellence not 
known before, by her singing, with that of 
Mrs. Crouch, Mrs. Bland, Kelly, and Ban- 
nister, and under the direction of her brother 
Stephen Storace, who composed, or rather 
compiled, several very pretty operas, of which 
the Haunted Tower, and the Siege of Belgrade, 
still remain favourites, and are frequently per- 
formed. Her voice being of a nature soon to 
crack and grow husky, on finding her powers 
decline she left the stage some time before 
her death, which took place a few years ago. 
It was very little known that she had been 
married at Vienna, to one Fisher, a doctor of 
music, and player on the fiddle. The cere - 
mony was performed by a protestant German 



60 MARCHESI. 

clergyman in the chapel of the Dutch ambas- 
sador. Prince Adam Auersperg and myself 
led the bride to the altar, and our minister, 
Sir Robert Keith (whose proxy I had been) 
gave the wedding dinner ; but the union was 
productive of so little happiness, that a sepa- 
ration soon took place, she never bore his 
name, and Dr. Fisher was heard of no more. 

The engagements of Rubinelli and Mara 
having terminated, and the former left Eng- 
land, the season of 1788 began with romic 
operas only, in which Storace still took the 
lead. Benucci, who has been already men- 
tioned, was the first buffo, but, notwithstand- 
ing his fine bass voice and excellent acting, 
was not so much admired as his talents de- 
served. He remained here but one season. 
It was not till after the carnival that the se- 
rious singers that were engaged could leave 
Italy. At length, in the spring, arrived the 
celebrated Marches!, whose fame had long 
reached this country, and who had been 
extolled to such a degree that impatience and 



MARCHESI. 61 

expectation were raised to the highest pitch ; 
and on the first night of his appearance the 
theatre was not only crowded to the utmost 
in every part, but on the rising of the cur- 
tain, the stage was so full of spectators that 
it was some time before order and silence 
could be obtained, and with some difficulty 
that Marchesi, who was to open the opera, 
could make his way before the audience. 
Marchesi was at this time a very well-looking 
young man, of good figure, and graceful 
deportment. His acting was spirited and ex- 
pressive : his vocal powers were very great, 
his voice of extensive compass, but a little 
inclined to be thick. His execution was very 
considerable, and he was rather too fond of 
displaying it; nor was his cantabile singing 
equal to his bravura. In recitative, and 
scenes of energy and passion, he was incom- 
parable, and had he been less lavish of orna- 
ments, which were not always appropriate, 
and possessed a more pure and simple taste, 
his performance would have been faultless : 



UZ MARCHESI. 

it was always striking, animated, and effective. 
He chose for his debut Sarti's beautiful opera 
of Giulio Sabino, in which all the songs of the 
principal character, and they are many and 
various, are of the very finest description. 
But I was a little disappointed at Marchesi's 
execution of them, for they were all familiar 
to me, as I had repeatedly heard Pacchierotti 
sing them in private, and I missed his tender 
expression, particularly in the last pathetic 
scene, and lamented that their simplicity should 
be injured, as it was, by an over-flowery style. 
lint his flowery style was absolute simplicity 
to what we have] heard in latter days. The 
comparison made me like Marchesi less than 
I had done at Mantua, or than I did in other 
subsequent operas here. He was received 
with rapturous applause. 

The first woman, Giuliani, was a very in- 
ferior performer, and had an uncertain, thin 
voice, not always perfectly in tune ; yet she 
was not without merit, had a good figure for 
the stage, and acted well. The new tenor, 



OPERA HOUSE BURNT. 63 

Forlivesi, was very indifferent, not near so 
good as his predecessor. 

All these singers remained for the ensuing 
season, but the good comic performers were 
dismissed, and exchanged for a new set, all 
execrably bad. The dancers too this year 
were so insufferable, that dissatisfaction was 
loudly expressed every nighk and the manager 
was at last compelled to send to Paris for more 
and better performers, amongst whom came the 
famous Mademoiselle Guimard, then near sixty 
years old, but still full of grace and gentility, 
and she had never possessed more. 

The season ended disastrously ; for a short 
time before its close the performances were 
stopped by the destruction of the opera-house, 
which was entirely burnt down, not without 
strong suspicion of its having been maliciously 
set on fire. The suspected person soon after 
committed suicide. The few remaining repre- 
sentations were given at Covent Garden after 
the season for plays was concluded, early in 
June. Thus was a second more fatal, and 



64 OPERA AT THE LITTLE THEATRE. 

longer, interruption given to the unfortunate 
King's Theatre, and great dismay arose lest 
there could be no opera at all the next winter. 
Arrangements however were made for carrying 
it on, upon a less splendid scale, at the Little 
Theatre in the Haymarket, which being tem- 
porarily altered and fitted up with greater 
convenience for the purpose, was opened with 
serious and comic operas. The latter were 
again detestable (Sestini, though nominally 
second woman, being the best, and only tole- 
rable performer) till Storace was called in for 
their support. But in the former, Marchesi 
was still first man, and Mara resumed her 
station in the room of Giuliani, so that the 
season was as successful as the smallness of 
the house would permit. The best new 
opera performed here was Demofoonte (called 
L'Usurpator innocente), but it was inferior to 
the former one of that name. The other 
operas in which Marchesi had most distin- 
guished himself, were 1'Olimpiade, Alessandro 
nell' Indie (under the name of La Generosita 



PACCHIEROTTI AND MARCHESI. 65 

d'Alessandro),* by Tarchi, and II Disertore, a 
drama taken from the French play of Mercier. 
The lovers of music, who from the small 
size of the theatre could not frequent the 
opera, had this year another resource, in the 
Pantheon, where there were excellent con- 
certs, for which Pacchierotti had returned to 
England, so that London possessed at once 
the two finest singers of Italy. Once only 
they sung in the same room, at a private con- 
cert given by Lord Buckingham, when both 
exerted themselves to the utmost in friendly 
rivalship, and their combined efforts afforded 
the highest gratification. It was difficult to 
decide the point of precedence between two 
such great and equal performers ; but both 
were civil and obliging men, despising the 
petty distinctions of which inferior performers 
are so tenacious, and Marchesi of his own 



* These changes were made in compliment to Mar- 
chesi, who in neither opera acted the nominal hero : a 
usual etiquette. 



G6 OPERA AT THE PANTHEON. 

accord yielded to his senior, Pacchierotti.* 
At the closing of the opera, the former left 
England. 

, The King's Theatre being rebuilt before 
the usual time for opening it, it was expected 
that the performances would recommence 
with splendor. But fresh and unforeseen dif- 
ficulties arose, another theatre having been 
prepared for operas, under other managers, 
who had not only secured the Lord Cham- 
berlain's licence, but even got the sanction 
of the King to call it his theatre. This was 
the Pantheon, in its original state the largest 
and most beautiful room in London, and a 
very model of fine architecture. It was the 
chef-d'oeuvre of Wyatt, who himself con- 
trived and executed its transformation, taking 
care not to injure any part of the building, 
and so concealing the columns and closing its 
dome, that it might be easily restored after 



* That is, sung before him, and left the last song to 
Pacchierotti. 



OPERA AT THE PANTHEON. 67 

its temporary purpose was answered, it being 
then in contemplation to erect an entirely 
new and magnificent opera-house elsewhere, 
a project which could never be realised. Mr. 
Wyatt by this conversion produced one of 
the prettiest, and by far the most genteel 
and comfortable theatres I ever saw, of a 
moderate size and excellent shape, and admi- 
rably adapted both for seeing and hearing. 
Here the regular opera was successfully car- 
ried on, with two very good companies and 
ballets. Pacchierotti, Mara, and Lazzarini, 
a very pleasing singer with a sweet tenor 
voice, being at the head of the serious ; and 
Casentini, a pretty woman and genteel actress, 
with Lazzarini, for tenor, Morelli and Cipriani 
principal buffos, composing the comic. This 
was the first time that Pacchierotti had met with 
a good prima donna since Madame Lebrun : 
his duettos with Mara were the most perfect 
pieces of execution I ever heard. The operas 
in which they performed together were Sac- 
chini's Rinaldo and Bertoni's Quinto Fabio, 



DO HAYMARKET THEATRE. 

revived, and a charming new one by Sarti, 
called Idalide ; or, La Vergine del Sole. The 
best comic were La Molinara, and La Locanda, 
both by Paesiello, and La bella Pescatrice by 
Guglielmi. On the whole I never enjoyed the 
opera so well as at this theatre. 

In the meanwhile the proprietors of that 
in the Haymarket had engaged a number of 
performers without the precaution of first as- 
certaining whether they could have a licence 
for employing them., At the head of the 
vocal department, or rather, I should say, the 
only vocal performer, was David, whom I 
had heard at Naples. There were no other 
singers of even tolerable merit, but a nume- 
rous and good set of dancers. After these 
incautious preparations, it was with difficulty 
they at length succeeded in getting leave to 
open the theatre with music and dancing ; 
but the permission not extending to dramatic 
performances, no opera could be acted. That 
of Pirro had been prepared, but was heard 
only at one dressed rehearsal gratis. The 



HAYMARKET THKATRE. 69 

subsequent performances consisted only of a 
vocal concert with ballets; and as there was 
no better female singer than poor old Sestini, 
and few of any sort that could be brought 
forward at a concert, two or three detached 
single songs by David were not attractive 
enough to carry many to the theatre, had 
not party run high on the occasion, its pa- 
tronizers being rancorous against the Lord 
Chamberlain and the Pantheonites. David 
was unfortunate in having no better oppor- 
tunity for the display of his great talents 
during his short stay in this country, where 
he was less known than his merits deserved, 
or than any other singer of equal eminence. 
He was undoubtedly the first tenor of his 
time, possessing a powerful and well-toned 
voice, great execution as well as knowledge 
of music, and an excellent style of singing. 
One of his last performances was in West- 
minster Abbey, at the last of those festivals, 
when the orchestra had to boast an assemblage 
of talent rarely met with, in Pacchierotti, 
Mara, David, and Storace. 



70 HAYMAEKET THEATRE. 

A German singer, whose name I forget, 
had been engaged as first woman for the 
Haymarket, and sung in the rehearsal of 
Pirro : but finding no operas could be acted, 
she would not sing at the concerts, and went 
away without being heard elsewhere. She 
was said to be an excellent musician, and 
probably was a good singer of the old school, 
for she was the scholar of a very celebrated 
performer, Signora Mingotti, who had been a 
great favourite in this country above thirty 
years before, and was not only first singer, 
but manager of the opera for a considerable 
period. She came over to England again 
with her pupil, and I once or twice heard the 
old lady sing with a tremulous, but still 
strong voice, some of her most admired old 
songs. Her usual residence was Munich, 
where I had also heard her, she having invited 
me to her house for that purpose, out of 
regard to my family, who had been among the 
number of her friends and patrons here. 

Thus ended the season of the year 1791. 



PANTHEON BURNT. 71 

In the next, the Haymarket Theatre never 
opened at all, and that of the Pantheon with 
comic operas only, by the same singers as 
the preceding year. But scarcely had the 
performances begun before that theatre also 
was burnt to the ground, and by this disaster 
not merely was a pretty opera-house lost, but 
one of the greatest architectural ornaments 
of the metropolis entirely destroyed. The 
proprietors of the rival theatre were very un- 
justly accused of being accessary to this mis- 
fortune, which, in this instance, was really 
occasioned only by accident. The opera again 
took refuge in the Little Theatre in the Hay- 
market, and went on with tolerable success to 
the end of the season. 

No male singer of eminence now remaining 
in this country, and none having from this 
time appeared on our stage of equal excellence, 
I would here make a few general remarks on 
the three finest that have ever lived in my 
memory, and the last of their line, of any note 
or distinguished merit, that Italy ever pro- 
duced. In comparing them together, I should 



72 GENERAL REMARKS. 

say that Rubinelli was the most simple, Mar- 
ches! the most brilliant, Pacchierotti the most 
touching singer. The style of the first was 
chaste and dignified ; that of the second florid 
and spirited ; while the third, combining all 
styles, and joining to exuberance of fancy the 
purest taste and most correct judgment, united 
every excellence, could by his variety please 
all descriptions of hearers, and give unquali- 
fied delight to every true lover of really good 
music. 



HAYMARKET THEATRE. 73 



SECTION V. 

17931802. 

King's Theatre re-opened Mara, her departure and 
subsequent return Banti Tour in Germany. 

DURING the theatrical recess, negotiations 
were opened, and at last brought to a suc- 
cessful termination, for putting an end to the 
schism which had, with no little acrimony, 
divided the musical world, and for adjusting 
the claims of the rival managers. This was 
effected by an union of parties, and an arrange- 
ment was made for re-opening the Haymarket 
theatre in the winter. But there was not time 
to bring over any new company of performers, 
and the best then in England were collected, 
with Mara at their head. 

The only new singer was the first man, 
Bruni, whom I had heard at Florence. He 
E 



74 BRUNI. 

certainly was improved since that time, but 
still he was very weak and poor in com- 
parison with his predecessors. He would 
indeed at times recall some of the tones and 
manner of Rubinelli, but was greatly inferior 
to him in every respect. 

The tenor was Kelly, new to the opera, 
but not to the town, as he had sung for several 
years at Drury Lane. Though he was a 
good musician, and not a bad singer, having 
been long in Italy, yet he had retained, 
or regained, so much of the English vulgarity 
of manner, that he was never greatly liked 
at this theatre, where however he sung 
occasionally, for a good many seasons, and 
became very useful as stage manager. 

The comic opera had no novelty. Casen- 
tini (now married to Borghi, second violin 
player of the opera) sung for a short time, 
but she was not in good health, and her voice 
was too weak for this theatre. Storace 
therefore, as usual, was re-engaged, and, 
aided by Kelly, Morelli, and Rovedino, gave 



MARA. 75 

some very good opera buffas, particularly 
that of I Zingari in Fiera, by Paesiello, which 
was extremely well acted, and gave great 
satisfaction. Thus passed the season without 
any marked success or failure. 

Mara was now however beginning to de- 
cline in voice and favour, as she advanced in 
age. When not engaged at the opera, she 
had continued here, singing at the Ancient 
Music and other concerts. For a short time 
she sang also at Covent Garden, where she 
was rather out of her place. She could not 
sing ill, but was not exactly suited for the 
pretty Polly of the Beggars' Opera, one of 
the characters she there assumed. At another 
time she sang at Drury Lane, or rather with 
the Drury Lane company, while they per- 
formed at the Opera-house during the re- 
building of their own theatre, when the 
original one of Garrick was pulled down, and 
the very large house erected which was 
subsequently burnt. On this occasion she 
performed in an English serious opera of Dido, 



76 MARA. 

in which she retained only one song of her 
Didone, the brilliant bravura, Son Regina, 
of Sacchini. Mrs. Crouch performed the 
part of first man, and Kelly that of tenor. It 
did not greatly succeed, though the music 
was good, and well sung.* 

At length she suddenly quitted the country, 
in no very creditable manner : for in the 
maturity of charms, which had never been 
great, she eloped from her husband, an idle 
drunken man, and bad player on the violon- 
cello, and went off with the young flute-player 
Florio, With him she fled to the uttermost 
parts of Europe, and lived for several years 
in Russia, till, when she was almost for- 
gotten, she re-appeared as suddenly and in as 
singular a manner as she had vanished. A 
very few years ago, an advertisement from 

* This is not surprising, the serious opera being ill 
suited to our stage, and our language to recitative 
None ever succeeded but Dr. Arne's Artaxerxes, which 
at first was supported by some Italian singers, Ten- 
ducci being the original Arbaces. 



MARA. 77 

Messrs. Knyvett announced for their concerts 
a most celebrated singer whom they were 
not yet at liberty to name. This mysterious 
secret was soon after explained by another 
announcement, that Madame Mara's benefit 
concert would take place at the King's The- 
atre on an evening specified, no one being at 
all aware of her return to England, or even 
of her existence. She must then have been 
at least seventy ; but it was said that her 
voice had miraculously returned, and was 
again as fine as ever. But when she dis- 
played these wonderfully revived powers 
they proved, as might be expected, lamen- 
tably deficient, and the tones she produced 
were compared to those of a penny trumpet. 
Curiosity was so little excited that the con- 
cert was ill attended : but this single exhi- 
bition was sufficient to induce Messrs. Knyvett 
to relinquish her services, and Madame Mara 
was heard no more. I was not so lucky' (or 
unlucky) as to hear these her last notes, as 
it was early in the winter, and I was not in 



78 BANTI. 

town. She returned to Russia, and was a 
great sufferer by the burning of Moscow. 
After that she lived at Mitlau, or some other 
town near the Baltic, where she died at a 
great age, not many years ago. 

We are now come to an interesting period 
in operatical history, the arrival of Banti, 
whom I must ever consider as far the most 
delightful singer I ever heard. She had begun 
the world as a cantante di piazza, and as such, 
having attracted notice by her fine voice, 
she had been taken from her humble calling, 
taught, and brought out as a singer in con- 
certs, first at Paris, and then in England, as 
before mentioned, at the Pantheon, under 
the name of Giorgi. But though she had the 

best ..masters, she was an idle scholar, and 

, 

never would apply to the drudgery of her 
profession", but in her, genius supplied the 
place of science, and the most correct ear, 
with the most exquisite taste, enabled her to 
sing with more effect, more expression, and 
more apparent knowledge of her art, than 



BANTI. 79 

many much better professors. She never was 
a good musician, nor could sing at sight 
with ease ; but having once learnt a song, 
and made herself mistress of its character, 
she threw into all she sung more pathos and 
true feeling than any of her competitors. Her 
natural powers were of the finest description : 
her voice, sweet and beautiful throughout, 
had not a fault in any part of its unusually 
extensive compass. Its lower notes, which 
reached below ordinary sopranos, were rich 
and mellow ; the middle, full and powerful ; 
and the very high, totally devoid of shrillness: 
the whole was even and regular, one of 
those rich voci di petto, which can alone 
completely please and satisfy the ear. In 
her youth it extended to the highest pitch, 
and was capable of such agility, that she 
practised and excelled most in the bravura 
style, in which she had no superior ; but 
losing a few of her upper notes, and acquiring 
a taste for the cantabile, she gave herself up 



80 BANTI. 

almost entirely to the latter, in which she had 
no equal. 

Her first appearance in this country was 
in the opera of Semiramide, or La Vendetta 
di Nino, by Bianchi, and all her part in it was 
of the most beautiful description. In addition 
to the songs belonging to the opera, she in- 
troduced a remarkably fine air by Guglielmi, 
from the oratorio of Debora, with an accom- 
paniment for a violin obligate, originally 
played by Cramer, afterwards by Viotti, 
Salomon, and Weichsell. This song, though 
long and one of great exertion, was so great 
a favourite that it never failed of being encored, 
not only in its novelty, but in every subsequent 
revival. Her acting and recitative were 
excellent, and in the last scene, where Semi- 
ramide dies, was incomparably fine. No 
opera ever had greater success or a longer run 
than this ; indeed it was one of those of which 
it is impossible to tire. She was but poorly 
supported in it ; the first man, Roselli, who 



BANTI. 81 

was substituted for Bruni, having a feeble and 
very limited voice, but he was possessed of 
some taste, and with more power would have 
been a good singer. For want of a tenor, 
Rovedino was employed to fill that part. 

In her second season, another soprano, 
named Neri, was tried, but he was so much 
worse that he could not be tolerated for more 
than one opera, and was immediately dis- 
missed. After an interval, Roselli was re- 
called ; Kelly also was engaged as tenor, 
until the return of Viganoni to this country. 

In a subsequent season (1800), she flat- 
tered me highly by desiring to perform for 
her benefit an opera of my composition, 
which on private trial she had found to suit 
her voice. This was the Zenobia of Metas- 
tasio, an interesting and pathetic drama, and 
she gave to the music an effect which its own 
merits could never have produced in other 
hands. The first man's part, being written 
for a soprano, was allotted to Roselli, who 
rehearsed it in private ; but his voice and 
E 5 



82 BANTI. 

powers were so unequal to its execution, that 
it was found necessary to induce him to give 
it up, and it was taken by Viganoni, who did 
it far more justice. The part the latter was 
to have played, and had actually learnt, was 
given to Benelli, another tenor of considerable 
merit, with whose performance I had every 
reason to be satisfied. Rovedino was the 
bass ; his daughter the second woman. Ha- 
ving granted the use of this opera to Banti 
only, I withdrew it immediately, and would 
not permit it to be again represented for 
the manager, who requested to have it. 
After this, Roselli sung no more, nor had we 
ever another soprano at the opera, till the 
arrival of Velluti, twenty-five years later. 
From this time Viganoni took the part of 
first man, and continued to fill that station, 
for which he was well qualified, both as 
singer and actor, during the remainder of 
Banti's stay, and for some seasons after. 
His voice was not very strong, nor of a 
superior tone or quality, but he was an 



BANTI. 83 

excellent musician, had good taste, and con- 
siderable versatility of talent, singing both 
in the serious and comic opera, and ren- 
dering himself generally useful. He must 
be considered as a performer of great merit. 
Little other change was made of the male 
performers during the many years she resided 
here. 

Among the operas she performed, the most 
favourite were Gluck's Alceste, in which she 
very greatly excelled ; three of her songs in 
it were generally repeated every night ; the 
Ifigenia in Tauride of the same master ; 
Paesiello's beautiful master piece, Elfrida ; 
his Nina, or, La Pazza per Amore ; Mitridate, 
by Nasolini, a young composer of great pro- 
mise, but who died at an early age ; Alzira, 
Merope, Cinna, and others composed ex- 
pressly for her by Bianchi. Occasionally too 
she acted in little comic operas, and was par- 
ticularly successful in Paesiello's intermezzo, 
La Serva Padrona, which she performed for 
her benefit with Morelli, and repeated by 



84) BANTI. 

command of their Majesties. Her exertions 
never flagged, nor did her admirers ever 
grow weary of her performance. I never 
wished for another singer ; but the public 
in general began at length to call out for 
novelty, and Mrs. Billington having returned 
to England from her tour in Italy, and as- 
tonished with her wonderful execution all who 
heard her at both the play-houses, where she 
acted alternately, the manager of the opera 
engaged her for the next season, and suffered 
Banti to depart, which she was the more 
ready to do, because her health began to de- 
cline, and she was desirous of returning to her 
native country, where she did not long survive. 
But before the close of her last season 
(1802), a singular and interesting performance 
took place. Banti prevailed on Mrs. Bil- 
lington to perform with her on the night 
of her benefit, leaving to the latter the choice 
of the opera, and the principal character. 
Merope, by Portogallo, was fixed upon, in 
which Mrs. Billington acted the heroine of 



GEliMANY. 85 

the piece, and Banti took the part of Poli- 
fonte, though written for a tenor voice. The 
curiosity to hear these two celebrated singers 
together, was so great, that the theatre over- 
flowed, and even ladies were obliged to sit 
on the stage, for want of other places. The 
performance satisfied every expectation, and 
the applause bestowed equally on both, was 
as rapturous as it was well deserved. 

Having thus brought to a close my ac- 
count (perhaps too long a one) of my most 
favourite singer, I will, before I proceed, make 
cursory mention of the music which I heard 
abroad during a short tour I made on the 
continent, in the summer and autumn of the 
year 1802. 

Of course I could hear none that was good, 
or even bearable, till I reached Germany. 
But at Frankfort, during the fair, there was 
a German opera, which gave me considerable 
pleasure. I there saw the Achilles and the 
Camilla of Paer, the Axur Re d'Ormus of 
Salieri, the Cosa rara of Martini, and other 



86 GERMANY. 

lighter pieces, all well performed. The first 
female singer was Madame Lang, who had 
long enjoyed a high reputation in Ger- 
many.* She sung with science, and con- 
siderable execution, very much in Mara's 
style ; but her voice was evidently in decay, 
and it was easy to see she had been better. 
A Mademoiselle Miiller sung very agreeably 
in the comic operas. The first man, named 
Krebs, was come to Frankfort only for the 
fair, from Stutgard, the place of his engage- 
ment. He had a good tenor voice, and sung 
well. I saw him again at Stutgard, in a 
charming opera of Weigl, of which the 
Italian name is L'Amor Marinaro, and it was 
excellently sung and acted throughout. The 
first woman, Madame Gley, was a very 
pleasing performer in every respect ; in her 
person (and she appeared in male attire), as 
a singer, and as an actress. A duetto between 
her and Krebs being called for a second time, 

* Madame Lang was the sister-in-law of Mozart. 



PARIS. 87 

they repeated it to the Italian words. I en- 
deavoured a few years ago to get this opera 
performed here, but could not succeed, though 
it was acknowledged to be likely to please. 
The travestissement of the first woman was, 
I believe, the chief obstacle. The compo- 
sitions of Weigl, though an excellent master, 
are little known in England. 

In passing through Manheim, I heard the 
Danaides of Salieri, which was moderate, both 
as to the music and performance. 

On my way home, I made a short residence 
at Paris, where there was then an Italian comic 
opera, at which Lazzarini was first tenor, 
and the principal female singers Strinasacchi 
and Bolla. The former was the favourite, but 
she did not strike me as particularly good, and 
seemed a little passee. She has since passed 
some years in England, without singing, being 
now the wife of Ambrogetti, of whom I shall 
have to speak at a future period. Bolla had 
already been in this country, and will also be 
mentioned hereafter. 



PARIS. 



Of French music, the less that is said the 
better ; but there were at this time at the 
Theatre Feydeau two singers of great merit, 
Elleviou and Martin, who had very little of 
the national manner, and were most excellent 
actors. The grand opera was in no respect 
improved ; that human ears can bear it is 
marvellous. 



BILLINGTON. 89 



SECTION VI. 

18031813. 

Mrs. Billington-f-Grassini Braham-t-Catalani Tra- 
mezzani-*-Bertinotti Pantheon Theatre re-opened 
with operas Retrospective view of the Comic Opera 
MorichellH-Bolla, &c. 

I RETURN to the Opera, where Mrs. Billing- 
ton now became sole first woman, with the 
same moderately good set of male performers, 
and opened the season of 1803 with the opera 
of Merope, Viganoni filling the part which 
Banti had performed. This justly famous 
singer was born of a musical family ; her 
mother, an English woman, having been a 
vocal performer of some eminence in her line. 
When Miss Weichsell, she distinguished her- 
self early in life as a piano-forte player, as her 
brother did on the violin. She also soon 



90 BILLINGTON. 

gave promise of vocal excellence. When I 
first heard her, in 1783, she was very young 
and pretty, had a delightful fresh voice of very 
high compass, and sung with great neatness 
several songs composed for Allegranti, whom 
she closely imitated. She was still young 
when she first appeared at Covent Garden as 
Mrs. Billington. After performing at that 
theatre for several years, she went to Italy to 
improve her taste, and returned from thence 
a finished singer. Her voice, though sweet 
and flexible, was not of that full nature which 
formed the charm of Banti's, but was rather 
a voce di testa, and in its very high tones 
resembled a flute or flageolet. Its agility was 
very great, and every thing she sung was 
executed in the neatest manner, and with the 
utmost precision. Her knowledge of music 
enabled her to give great variety to her em- 
bellishments, which, as her taste was good, 
were always judicious. 

With all these great and undisputed ex- 
cellencies something yet was wanting ; for she 



GRASSIKI. 91 

possessed not the feeling to give touching 
expression, even when she sung with the 
utmost delicacy and consummate skill. Her 
face was handsome and her countenance full 
of good humour, but it was incapable of 
change, and she was no actress. I therefore 
missed Band extremely during her whole first 
season, and did not admire her as much as 
the public at large, nor as I afterwards did 
when I became more fully acquainted with 
her merits, which, strange to say, I began to 
appreciate more highly from the very cir- 
cumstance which rather lowered her favour, 
and she rose in my estimation from the com- 
parison which tended rather to sink her in 
that of the public. 

The event to which I allude was the arrival 
of Grassini, who was engaged for the next 
season to sing alternately with Mrs. Billington. 
This very handsome woman was in every 
thing the direct contrary of her rival. With 
a beautiful form, and a grace peculiarly her 



92 GRASSINI. 

own, she was an excellent actress, and her 
style of singing was exclusively the cantabile, 
which became heavy d la tongue, and bordered 
a little on the monotonous : for her voice, 
which it was said had been a high soprano, 
was by some accident reduced to a low and 
confined contralto. She had entirely lost all 
its upper tones, and possessed little more than 
one octave of good natural notes ; if she 
attempted to go higher, she produced only a 
shriek, quite unnatural, and almost painful to 
the ear. Her first appearance was in La 
Vergine del Sole, an opera of Mayer's, well 
suited to her peculiar talents ; but her success 
was not very decisive as a singer, though her 
acting and her beauty could not fail of ex- 
citing high admiration. So equivocal was her 
reception, that when her benefit was to take 
place she did not dare encounter it alone, 
but called in Mrs. Billington to her aid, 
and she, ever willing to oblige, readily con- 
sented to appear with her. The opera, com- 



GIIASSINI. 93 

posed for the occasion by Winter, was II 
Ratto di Proserpina, in which Mrs. Billington 
acted Ceres, and Grassini Proserpine. And 
now the tide of favour suddenly turned ; the 
performance of the latter carried all the 
applause, and her graceful figure, her fine 
expression of face, together with the sweet 
manner in which she sung several easy simple 
airs, stamped her at once the reigning fa- 
vourite. Her deep tones were undoubtedly 
fine, and had a particularly good effect, when 
joined with the brilliant voice of Mrs. Billing- 
ton ; but though, from its great success, this 
opera was frequently repeated, they never 
sang together in any other. Grassini, having 
attained the summit of the ladder, kicked 
down the steps by which she had risen, and 
henceforth stood alone. Not only was she 
rapturously applauded in public, but she was 
taken up by the first society, fetee, caressed, 
and introduced as a regular guest in most of 
the fashionable assemblies. Of her private 
claims to that distinction it is best to be silent, 



94 B 11 A II AM. 

but her manners and exterior behaviour were 
proper and genteel. 

As I before observed, it was the comparison 
of these two rival performers that discovered 
to me the great superiority of Mrs. Billington 
as a musician and as a singer. But as every 
one has eyes, and but few musical ears, the 
superior beauty was the most generally ad- 
mired, and no doubt the deaf would have 
been charmed with Grassini, while the blind 
must have been delighted with Mrs. Bil- 
lington. 

For two more years both these singers 
continued to perform alternately, and the 
only material change in the company was 
the introduction of Braham, at first con- 
jointly with Viganoni, and afterwards as sole 
first man when the latter quitted the coun- 
try. Though it seems needless to say much 
of so well-known a performer, yet it is im- 
possible to pass over a singer of Braham's 
reputation without some remark. All must 
acknowledge that his voice is of the finest 



BE AH AM. 95 

quality, of great power, and, occasionally, 
sweetness. It is equally certain that he 
has great knowledge of music, and can sing 
extremely well. It is therefore the more to 
be regretted that he should ever do other- 
wise ; that he should ever quit the natural 
register of his voice by raising it to an un- 
pleasant falsetto, or force it by too violent 
exertion ; that he should depart from a good 
style, and correct taste, which he knows and 
can follow as well as any man, to adopt, at 
times, the over-florid and frittered Italian 
manner ; at others, to fall into the coarseness 
and vulgarity of the English. The fact is, 
that he can be two distinct singers, according 
to the audience before whom he performs, 
and that to gain applause he condescends to 
sing as ill at the playhouse as he has done 
well at the opera. His compositions have 
the same variety, and he can equally write a 
popular noisy song for the one, or its very 
opposite for the other. A duetto of his, in- 
troduced into the opera of Gli Orazj, sung by 



96 B RAH AM. 

himself and Grassini, had great beauty, and 
was in excellent taste.* 

The operas in which Mrs. Billington ex- 
celled most, were La Clemenza di Scipione, 
composed by the celebrated Bach, and now 
revived for the first time since it was per- 
formed in its novelty by Miss Davies : Pae- 
siello's Elfrida; Armida; Castore e Polluce, 
and others by Winter; and Mozart's Cle- 
menza di Tito, which was the first of his 
operas ever acted in this country. She like- 
wise occasionally played in comic operas, as 
will be noticed hereafter. 

Grassini performed Gli Orazj e Curiazj, 
the chef-d'oeuvre of Cimarosa, and her own, 

* Brahamhas done material injury to English singing, 
by producing a host of imitators. What is in itself not 
good, but may be endured from a fine performer, 
becomes insufferable in bad imitation. Catalani has 
done less mischief, only because her powers are unique 
and her astonishing execution unattainable. Many 
men endeavour to rival Braham ; no woman can 
aspire to being a Catalani. 



CATALANI. 97 

(her acting in the last scene being most 
excellent), Zaira, by Winter ; La Morte di 
Cleopatra, by Nasolini ; and the Camilla of 
Paer. 

After three years of divided reign, both 
retired ; Mrs. Billington, though in full pos- 
session of all her powers, quitting the stage 
entirely, and Grassini, feeling her extreme 
high favour a little on the decline, wisely 
returning to Italy.* 

The great, the far-famed Catalani supplied 
the place of both, and for many years reigned 
alone, for she would bear no rival, nor any 
singer sufficiently good to divide the applause. 
Of this celebrated performer it is well known 
that her voice is of a most uncommon quality, 
and capable of exertions almost supernatural. 
Her throat seems endued (as has been re- 
marked by medical men) with a power of 



* After her retirement from her profession, Mrs. 
Billington lived for a few years in England, and then 
went again to Italy, where she very soon died. 
F 



98 CATALANI. 

expansion and muscular motion by no means 
usual, and when she throws out all her voice 
to the utmost, it has a volume and strength 
that are quite surprising, while its agility in 
divisions, running up and down the scale in 
semi-tones, and its compass in jumping over 
two octaves at once, are equally astonishing. 
It were to be wished she was less lavish in 
the display of these wonderful powers, and 
sought to please more than to surprise ; but 
her taste is vicious, her excessive love of 
ornament spoiling every simple air, and her 
greatest delight (indeed her chief merit) being 
in songs of a bold and spirited character, 
where much is left to her discretion (or in- 
discretion), without being confined by the 
accompaniment, but in which she can indulge 
in ad libitum passages with a luxuriance and 
redundancy no other singer ever possessed, 
or if possessing ever practised, and which she 
carries to a fantastical excess. She is fond of 
singing variations on some known simple 
air, and latterly has pushed this taste to the 



CATALANI. ijy 

very height of absurdity, by singing, even 
without words, variations composed for the 
fiddle. This is absolute nonsense, a lament- 
able misapplication of that finest of instru- 
ments, the human voice, and of the delightful 
faculty of song. Whenever I hear such 
an outrageous display of execution, either 
vocal or instrumental, I never fail to recol- 
lect, and cqrdially join in, the opinion of a 
late noble statesman, more famous for his 
wit than for love of music, who, hearing a 
remark on the extreme difficulty of some per- 
formance, observed, that he wished it was 
impossible * 

From what has been said, it may readily be 
conceived that Catalani has a bad choice in 

* This ban mot has generally been given to Dr. John- 
son, but I have reason to' know it was said by the noble 
Lord alluded to, of whom a similar one is recorded con- 
firming his distaste for music. Being asked why he 
did not subscribe to the Ancient Concerts, and it being 
urged as a reason for it that his brother the Bishop of 
W"****** did, " Oh," replied his Lordship, " If I 
was as deaf as my brother, I would subscribe too." 



100 CATALANT. 

music, and that she prefers the compositions 
of inferior masters, written expressly for her- 
self, to the more regular of better composers. 
She found one here precisely to her taste, in 
Pucitta, who had been successful in two very 
light, but pleasing comic operas. Him she 
employed to compose for her several serious, 
to which he was unequal ; all of them were 
very moderate, La Vestale the best. She 
performed however in many others ; Semi- 
ramide, by Portogallo, which she chose for 
her debut, but it was very inferior to Bianchi's ; 
Mitridate, Elfrida, and, much to her dissatis- 
faction, La Clemenza di Tito, for she detested 
Mozart's music, which keeps the singer too 
much under the controul of the orchestra, 
and too strictly confined to time, which she 
is apt to violate. Yet she first introduced to 
our stage his Nozze di Figaro, in which she 
acted the part of Susanna admirably. In the 
Orazj she performed the first soprano's part 
of Curiazio, that of the first woman being 
filled by Ferlendis, a pretty good actress, at 



CATALANI. 101 

that time first buffa. But she totally disre- 
garded the general effect of an opera, and the 
cast of all the other characters, whatever 
might be the disadvantage of it to the other 
performers, if she was indulged in her whim- 
sical choice of parts for herself. Thus in 
Didone, she caused the part of Enea to be 
done by Madame Dussek, who had neither 
voice, figure, nor action for the character ; 
and in another opera she made Madame 
Dussek act the first woman's part, choosing 
for herself that of the first man. 

Latterly she assumed also the place of first 
buffa, and succeeded equally well in that line. 
Indeed she gave me more pleasure in the 
comic than the serious operas, as she sung 
with greater simplicity and ease. In both, 
her acting was excellent ; in the one, majestic, 
forcible, and expressive ; in the other, natural, 
playful, and genteel. Her face and figure 
were suited to both ; for she is very hand- 
some, with a countenance peculiarly fine on 
the stage, and capable of great variety of 



TRAMEZZANI. 

expression. Though the outline of her fea- 
tures is decidedly tragic (almost Siddonian), 
yet she can relax them into the most charm- 
ing smile, and assume the character not merely 
of gaiety, but even of niaiserie, and of arch 
simplicity ; so that her versatile powers 
fit her for every style. With all her faults 
therefore (and no great singer ever had so 
many), she must be reckoned a very fine 
performer, and if the natural powers with 
which she is so highly gifted were guided by 
sound taste and judgment, she might have 
been a perfect one. 

The male performers with Catalani were 
for the most part of a very inferior descrip- 
tion, and fit only for second singers. The 
first exception was Siboni, who sung well, 
but with a thick and tremulous voice: he 
staid however only a short time. After an 
interval, he was succeeded by Tramezzani, 
one of the most agreeable tenors I ever 
remember to have heard. This very good 
performer was introduced accidentally to our 



TRAMEZZANI. 103 

stage, to which he proved so valuable an ac- 
quisition. Arriving here without any previous 
engagement during a season for which Cata- 
lani had on some dispute with the manager 
quitted the theatre, leaving no first rate 
singers of any sort, and when only comic 
operas could be acted, and even those with 
mediocrity, he was immediately brought for- 
ward in a serious one, called Sidagero, by 
Guglielmi, which was in fact an oratorio 
with a slight change of the words and names. 
Tramezzani's debut in it was most successful, 
the music very beautiful, and his perform- 
ance, especially as an actor, most admirable. 
He had a very handsome person, and was 
full of animation and feeling. His voice was 
of the sweetest quality, of that rich, touching, 
cremona tone peculiar to the Italians, and his 
singing, if not of the first order, or very 
scientific, was always pleasing, and full of 
expression. He continued to be a great favour- 
ite during all his stay (of several years) in 
this country. Two female singers came over 



104 BERTINOTTI. 

with him, both of whom performed in this 
opera, Calderini as first woman, in every 
way disagreeable, and soon parted with, and 
Bianchi, who remained as a respectable se- 
cond. 

Towards the close of Catalani's engage- 
ment, another first woman was brought over, 
to perform alternately with her. This was 
Bertinotti, who had a pleasing voice and a 
good manner of singing ; but after giving 
satisfaction in one serious opera of Zaira, in 
which her songs were composed by her hus- 
band Radicati, was less successful in a second, 
upon which she took to the comic opera, and 
performed extremely well in Mozart's Cos! 
fan Tutte, which was admirably acted in every 
part, the other female characters being filled 
by Collini and Cauvini, two very pretty wo- 
men, and pleasing actresses ; the male by Tra- 
mezzani, Cauvini, a very respectable tenor, 
and Naldi, an excellent buffo. She also sung 
in the Flauto magico of the same composer : 
and Sidagero was revived, in which she per- 



PANTHEON. 105 

formed the part of the first woman far better 
than her predecessor. 

So many performers of considerable talent 
could not be agreeable to Catalan!, whose 
love of supreme power and sole admiration 
made their situation so unpleasant, that half 
the company quitted the theatre, and esta- 
blished themselves at the Pantheon, which 
had been rebuilt, and undergone a second 
transformation. On its restoration it was first 
fitted up as a concert room, with as much 
ingenuity to make it ugly as bad taste could 
invent ; and it was as supremely so as it had 
been beautiful originally. No entertainments 
having succeeded in it, it was again meta- 
morphosed into a theatre, which the seceders 
obtained leave to open. These consisted of 
Bertinotti, Collini, the two Cauvinis, Morelli 
(now very old), and a few others to fill up 
the company, among whom Miss Stephens, 
now become so favourite a singer, was engaged 
as last woman, being her first appearance on 
any stage. But as their licence was only for 
F 5 



106 



PANTHEON. 



intermezzos, or operas of one act, and dancing 
without ballets d'action, the performances were 
not very attractive, and soon ceased. This 
happened the sooner, from a report indus- 
triously circulated, and published in the news- 
papers with the attestation of an architect, 
that the external walls, though not much 
injured by the fire, were yet unequal to 
bearing the weight of the new roof which 
had been erected upon them, and that the 
building was unsafe. It was therefore so 
little frequented, that it soon closed, and the 
singers dispersed, most of them, amongst 
whom was Bertinotti, leaving the country. 
The theatre still stands, but, its reputation 
being thus blasted, has never been re-opened, 
and a house of excellent shape, and great 
convenience, capable of being made one of 
the prettiest in London, is thus lost to the 
public.* 

Catalani was now the only performer of 

* This building has just undergone another trans- 
formation, and been opened as a bazaar. 



CATALANI. 107 

any eminence remaining in England, and led 
in both lines : but as one singer does not 
constitute an opera,* and neither her dis- 
position would bear with others, nor the 
extravagance of her annually increasing de- 
mands allow the manager to engage them, 
she at length quitted the theatre at the end 
of the season of 1813, having first endea- 
voured to purchase it, and thereby become 
sole proprietor, sole manager, and sole ac- 
tress. 

After she left our stage she for many years 
never trod any other, except at Paris, where 
she opened a small theatre under her own 
management, but the undertaking was not suc- 
cessful. It is singular that the most famous 
singer and actress of her time should remain 
so long without any theatrical engagement; 
but her inordinate terms make it impossible for 
any manager to incur so great an expense, and 

* Her husband, M. Valabregue, was of a very diffe- 
rent opinion : he is reported to have said, " Ma femme, 
et quatre ou cinq poupees, voila tout ce qu'il faut." 



108 CAT A LAN I. 

she has found it more agreeable to her taste, 
and probably more advantageous to her in- 
terest, to travel throughout nearly the whole 
of Europe giving concerts, at which she is 
generally the only vocal performer. She has 
made two such visits to England, and may in 
all probability make more, as she retains a 
partiality for this country, where she has been 
more extravagantly admired and paid than 
in any other. She has had the least success 
in her own, where she has sung but little, 
and where her talents are appreciated at their 
just value. As in what has been said she may 
have appeared in rather an unamiable light, 
it is but justice to add, that off the stage 
there is not an unamiable trait in her charac- 
ter. She is an excellent woman, and in every 
relation of private life her conduct is irre- 
proachable. 

As I consider Catalan! to be the last great 
singer heard in this country whose name is 
likely to be recorded in musical annals ; and 
as, soon after her departure, a new aera began 



COMIC OPERA. 109 

in our opera, I shall here pause, and after 
going back to notice shortly the comic opera 
from the time where I interrupted my ac- 
count of it, shall close this long period with 
a few general remarks. 

So frequent and rapid were the changes 
which took place in the comic department, 
that it would be as difficult as unnecessary to 
observe a strict regularity in the account of 
them. I shall therefore not attempt it, but 
only mention the principal singers and per- 
formances as they occur to me. 

Together with Band came Morichelli, who 
was cried up beforehand as her equal if not 
her superior. If her admirers were forced to 
admit that her voice was inferior to Band's, 
she was, they said, a much better musician. 
So she might be, but never could have been 
half so delightful a singer, and she was now 
past her prime ; her voice was not true, her 
taste spoilt by a long residence at Paris, 
where she adopted much of the national style, 
and her manner and acting were affected. 



110 COMIC OPERA. 

In short, she did not please generally, though 
there was a strong party for her (who foretold 
she would in time eclipse her more brilliant 
rival), and after her second season she went 
away, leaving behind her, in every print shop, 
her portrait, with the flattering, but false 
inscription, " Parti, ma vide che adorata 
partiva." 

The best of her successors, and far better 
than herself, was Bolla, a very pretty woman, 
and pleasing genteel actress, who with a 
better voice would have been an excellent 
singer. She was very successful in the Zin- 
gari in Fiera, and in Nina, which latter opera 
she performed for her benefit in a novel and 
singular manner, the dialogue being spoken 
in prose without recitative, which had not a 
bad effect; but this way of acting it was 
deemed an infringement of the rights of the 
English theatres, and after a few nights it 
was stopped by authority, as unlawful at the 
Opera. 

Such a succession of very indifferent per- 



COMIC OPEKA. 



Ill 



formers followed, none of whom stayed more 
than one season, some not so long, that I 
have little to add but a list of names. Among 
them were Vinci, a great woman, with great 
pretensions, aiming at much, and failing in 
every thing : Gerbini, a bad singer, without 
voice, but a good player on the fiddle, having 
been educated in a conservatorio at Venice : 
Perini, very near being a good singer, but 
not agreeable : Fabrizzi, very far from a bad 
one, but neither young nor pretty, therefore 
not liked : Angelelli, both young and pretty, 
but much too weak for the stage, for which 
she was not designed ; for she was the daugh- 
ter of an English gentleman resident in Italy, 
and well brought up ; with a pretty voce di 
camera, she was a good amateur singer ; her 
theatrical name was feigned, and she was 
soon after well married in Germany. Poor 
Allegranti's re-appearance has been men- 
tioned ; and some others, too bad to mention 
at all, just passed in review, and disappeared 
immediately. One alone who appeared thus 



112 COMIC OPERA. 

transiently ought to have been more admired, 
and retained. This was Marconi, an excel- 
lent singer and very genteel actress ; but her 
voice was the deepest contralto of a female's 
I ever heard, and she did not please, though 
she performed in a very pretty opera, called 
Adolfo e Clara (from the French of that 
name), extremely well acted in all its parts, 
by Tramezzani, Naldi, and a new buffo with 
a good voice and considerable talent, whose 
name I forget, as he too was never engaged, 
and the opera was laid aside after a very few 
representations. If Marconi's voice was too 
low for a prima donna, she would have been 
of infinite use to the theatre for contralto 
parts, and an admirable performer of male 
characters in the serious opera. She staid so 
short a time in England as to be scarcely 
known. 

It happening once that both the first women, 
serious and comic, were prevented by illness 
from performing (so that the theatre must 
have been shut), Mrs. Bland of Drury Lane was 



COMIC OPERA. 113 

engaged for a few nights, and performed very 
creditably to herself and agreeably to the 
audience, in the operas of La Frascatana, and 
Gli Schiavi per Amore.* 

Storace was frequently called in, some- 
times alone, at others to give additional 
strength to some particular opera, as in Mar- 
tini's Arbore di Diana with Fabrizzi, in which 
also sung Viganoni, Braham, and Morelli. 
In another season, La Cosa Kara, by the same 
composer, was performed by the same singers, 
with the addition of Kelly, and the important 
substitution of Mrs. Billington for Fabrizzi. 
Storace likewise appeared with Naldi in his 
first opera. This excellent actor was a good 
musician, and, as far as his powers allowed, 
a good singer, but his voice was weak and 

* Though Mrs. Bland was only a singer of the second 
class, few, if any, English singers who have appeared 
at the opera sung with such pure Italian taste, or 
equalled her in recitative and pronunciation of the 
language. Her maiden name was Romanzini, so she 
might have been of Italian origin. 



114 COMIC OPERA. 

uncertain. Soon after, Mrs. Billington per- 
formed with Naldi in the Fanatico per la 
Musica, in which she took the opportunity 
of displaying her talents as an instrumental 
performer by accompanying herself on the 
piano-forte. 

Recourse was occasionally had to Mrs. 
Dickons, but she produced little effect on the 
Italian stage ; her best part was the Countess 
in Figaro. 

Ferlendis, who has been already alluded 
to, was I think less liked than she deserved, 
for she had a very good contralto voice, and 
was far from a bad buffa. She would have 
been thought, too, to have acted the part of 
Orazia well, had it not been for the compa- 
rison with Grassini, and for Catalani's then 
eclipsing every body. On Catalani's tem- 
porary secession, Collini was engaged, but 
soon found unequal to a first woman's part ; 
and to her was added the wife of the com- 
poser Pucitta, whose two comic operas were 
then performed with considerable success. 



GENERAL REMARKS. 115 

The most favourite was La Caccia di Enrico, 
which Catalan! herself afterwards acted, but 
changed and added to the music. The two 
above-named singers were both very good as 
seconds, and the former of them, having a fine 
contralto voice, was often employed as first 
man in serious operas. 

At length, Catalani assumed both depart- 
ments, and after her leaving the stage they 
were rarely separated, the whole style of 
operas being in a year or two materially 
changed, as I shall presently show. 

But first I would take a short retrospective 
view of the two last periods, and bring into 
comparison with each other the five great 
female singers of whom I have spoken so 
much at length individually. 

They may be divided into two classes, of 
which Madame Mara and Mrs. Billington form 
the first ; and they were in most respects 
so similar, that the same observations will 
apply equally to both. Both were excellent 



116 GENERAL REMARKS. 

musicians, thoroughly skilled in their pro- 
fession ; both had voices of uncommon sweet- 
ness and agility, particularly suited to the 
bravura style, and executed to perfection, and 
with good taste, every thing they sung. But 
neither was an Italian, and consequently both 
were deficient in recitative : neither had much 
feeling or theatrical talent, and they were 
absolutely null as actresses ; therefore they 
were more calculated to give pleasure in the 
concert-room than on the stage. 

The other three, on the contrary, had great 
and distinguished dramatic talents, and seemed 
born for the theatrical profession. They were 
all likewise but indifferently skilled in music, 
supplying by genius what they wanted in 
science, and thereby producing the greatest 
and most striking effects on the stage : these 
are their points of resemblance. Their dis- 
tinctive differences, I should say were these ; 
Grassini was all grace, Catalani all fire, Band 
all feeling ; and by a singular coincidence, 



GENERAL REMARKS. 117 

forming almost exact counterparts of the three 
great singers before compared together, the 
first may be said to have borne a strong re- 
semblance in her style to Rubinelli, the second 
to Marchesi, and the third to have united in 
a high degree all the varied excellencies of 
Pacchierotti. 









118 MODERN OPERAS. 



SECTION VII. 

18141823. 

Change of style in music and modern operas Rossini 
Mozart Short account of the opera during this 
period Camporese. 

THE opera in England for the period of ten 
years after the departure of Catalani, will 
afford much less room for observation than 
any of the preceding, as far as the singers 
are concerned ; for, with one or two excep- 
tions, there were not any of whom I feel 
inclined to say much, because there is not 
much to be said in their praise. But so great 
a change has taken place in the character of 
the dramas, in the style of the music, and in 
its performance, that I cannot help enlarging a 
little on that subject before I proceed farther. 

One of the most material alterations is, 



MODERN OPERAS. 119 

that the grand distinction between serious and 
comic operas is nearly at an end, the sepa- 
ration of the singers for their performance 
entirely so. Not only do the same sing in 
both, but a new species of drama has arisen, 
a kind of mongrel between them, called 
semi-seria, which bears the same analogy to 
the other two that that non-descript the 
melo-drama does to the legitimate tragedy 
and comedy of the English stage. The con- 
struction of these newly-invented pieces is 
essentially different from the old. The dia- 
logue, which used to be carried on in recita- 
tive, and which in Metastasio's operas is 
often so beautiful and interesting, is now cut 
up (and rendered unintelligible if it were 
worth listening to) into pezzi concertatl, or 
long singing conversations, which present 
a tedious succession of unconnected, ever- 
changing motives, having nothing to do with 
each other ; and if a satisfactory air is for a 
moment introduced, which the ear would like 
to dwell upon, to hear modulated, varied, and 



120 MODERN OPERAS. 

again returned to, it is broken off before it 
is well understood or sufficiently heard, by 
a sudden transition, into a totally different 
melody, time, and key, and recurs no more : 
so that no impression can be made, or recol- 
lection of it preserved.* Single songs are 

* In the periodical paper called The Looker-on 
(No. 74) is the following passage, most apposite to this 
subject. The author, comparing the arts of painting 
and music, says 

" In the objects which exercise the sense of seeing, 
" beauty of figure may be resolved into uniformity, 
" variety, and proportion. Uniformity, because it pro- 
" duces facility of conception, and enables the whole to 
" enter easily into the mind ; variety, because it gra- 
" tifies the appetite for novelty, and puts the mind into 
" action by a transition from one contemplation to 
" another; proportion, because it gratifies our moral 
" sense of fitness and utility. Beauty in music results 
" from nearly the same causes : that is, addresses itself 
" to the same seated principles of the mind. It is here 
" that a variety of the parts and tones under the same 
" key, that is, a particular variety subordinate to a 
" general uniformity, excites those pleasing sensations 
" which constitute a sense of beauty. In harmony, 



MODERN OPERAS. 121 

almost exploded, for which one good reason 
may be given, that there are few singers 
capable of singing them. Even a prima donna, 
who would formerly have complained at having 
less than three or four airs allotted to her, is 
now satisfied with one trifling cavatina for a 
whole opera. 

The acknowledged decline of singing in 
general (which the Italians themselves are 
obliged to confess) has no doubt in a great 
measure occasioned this change. But another 
cause has certainly contributed to it, and that 
is the difference of the voices of the male 
performers. Sopranos have long ceased to 
exist, but tenors for a long while filled their 
place. Now even these have become so 

" that variety is more complicated, but it is still va- 
" ricty under the controul of a certain uniformity, and 
" submittted to strict rules of proportion." 

Nothing can be more just, or more clearly expressed, 
than this definition, or a more decided condemnation 
by anticipation of the modern style of music. It was 
written in 1793. 

G 



122 MODERN OPERAS. 

scarce, that Italy can produce no more than 
two or three very good ones. The generality 
of voices are basses, which for want of better 
are thrust up into the first characters, even 
in serious operas where they used only to 
occupy the last place, to the manifest injury 
of melody, and total subversion of harmony, 
in which the lowest part is their peculiar 
province. 

These new first singers are called by the 
novel appellation of basso cantante (which by 
the bye is a kind of apology, and an acknow- 
ledgment that they ought not to sing) and 
take the lead in operas with almost as much 
propriety as if the double bass were to do so 
in the orchestra, and play the part of the first 
fiddle. A bass voice is too unbending, and 
deficient in sweetness for single songs, and 
fit only for those of inferior character, or of 
the buffo style. In duettos it does not co- 
alesce well with a female voice, on account 
of the too great distance between them, and 
in fuller pieces the ear cannot be satisfied 



MODERN OPERAS. 123 

without some good intermediate voices to fill 
up the interval, and complete the harmony. 
Yet three or four basses now frequently over- 
power one weak tenor, who generally plays 
but a subordinate part.* 

Composers therefore having few good 
voices, and few good singers to write for, 
have been obliged to adapt their compositions 
to the abilities of those who were to perform 
them ; and as four, five, or six moderate 
performers produce a better effect jointly 
than they could by their single efforts, songs 
have disappeared, and interminable quartettes, 
quintettes, sestettos, &c. usurp their place. 
Every opera is filled with such pieces, 

* It has always surprised me that the principal cha- 
racters in two of Mozart's operas should have been 
written for basses, namely, Count Almaviva, and Don 
Giovanni, both of which seem particularly to want the 
more lively tones of a tenor ; and I can account for it 
no otherwise than by supposing they were written for 
some particular singer who had a bass voice, for he has 
dpne so in no other instance. 



124 MODERN OPERAS. 

which in fact are so many finales, such as 
formerly were never used but at the end of 
the acts of comic operas, to which alone they 
are appropriate.* These after wearying the 
attention for a longer time than half a dozen 
old songs, generally conclude by a noisy crash 
of voices and instruments, in which the 
harmony is frequently distracted, each per- 
sonage engaged in the scene having perhaps 
to express a different passion, and the whole 
vocal part almost overpowered by so loud 
and busy an accompaniment that the voices 
themselves are nearly lost. It is really dis- 
tressing to hear the leading voice strained 
almost to cracking, in order to be audible over 
a full chorus and full orchestra, strengthened 
often by trumpets, trombones, kettle-drums, 
and all the noisiest instruments. I confess 

* In serious operas, while they were in three acts, 
the two first were ended by a duetto of the first man 
and woman, and a terzetto with the tenor. The inferior 
singers never joined in any concerted piece. 



MODERN OPERAS. 125 

that I derive little or no pleasure from these 
pieces, which to my ears are scarcely music, 
but mere noise.* It is evident that in such 
compositions each individual singer has little 
room for displaying either a fine voice or 
good singing, and that power of lungs is 
more essential than either. Very good singers 
therefore are scarcely necessary, and it must 
be confessed that though there are now none 
so good, neither are there many so bad as I 
remember in the inferior characters. In 
these levelling days, equalization has ex- 
tended itself to the stage and musical pro_ 
fession ; and a kind of mediocrity of talent 
prevails, which, if it did not occasion the 

* I would not be understood to mean that I like no 
sort of pezzi concertati or chorus. I would only have 
them in their proper place, fewer and shorter. No 
opera chorusses are very good, and they should not be 
long, because being to be sung by memory and by bad 
singers, it is next to an impossibility that an intricate 
or elaborate composition should be sung well any where, 
and at our opera they are generally most miserably- 
performed. 



126 MODERN OPERAS. 

invention of these melo-dramatic pieces is at 
least very favourable to their execution.* 

These observations apply in the strongest 
manner to the compositions of the present 
favourite (I might almost say sole) composer 

* Since the above was written, I have met with a pas- 
sage in Schlegel's Lectures on Dramatic Literature 
(translated by Black), so entirely corroborating what 
I have said, that I cannot help subjoining it. 

" A few only of the operas of Metastasio still keep 
" possession of the stage, as the change of taste in music 
" demands a different arrangement of the text. Metas- 
" tasio seldom has chorusses, and his airs are almost 
" always for a single voice : with these the scenes uni- 
" formly terminated, and the singer never fails to make 
" his exit with them. In an opera we now. require 
" more frequent duos and trios, and a crashing finale. 
" In fact, the most difficult problem for the opera poet 
" is the mixing the complicated voices of conflicting 
" passions in one common harmony, without injuring 
" their essence: a problem however which is generally 
" solved by both poet and musical composer in a very 
" arbitrary manner." The consequence of this is that 
all the new dramas written for Rossini's music, are 
most execrably bad, and contain scarcely one line that 
can be called poetry, or even one of common sense. 



ROSSINI. 127 

of Italy, Rossini, whose music alone is now 
liked in that country, and with which for 
several seasons we were satiated in this. 
That he is possessed of genius and invention 
cannot be denied, but they are not guided 
by good taste, and may be deemed too fan- 
ciful : neither are they inexhaustible, for he is 
so rapid and so copious a writer that his ima- 
gination seems already to be nearly drained, 
as no one is so great a plagiarist of himself. 
His compositions are so similar, and bear so 
strong a stamp of peculiarity and mannerism, 
that while it is impossible not to recognize 
instantly a piece of music as his, it is fre- 
quently difficult to distinguish one from ano- 
ther. At least I frankly confess my inability 
to do so, and that very few of his composi- 
tions remain in my memory. This great 
sameness is of course augmented in no slight 
degree by the style now in vogue. If a 
single piece of music (or what is to be con- 
sidered as such) is to contain as many dif- 
ferent subjects as would make three or four, 



128 EOSSINJ. 

the composer's imagination must be wonder- 
fully fertile indeed if the same ideas did not 
often recur, as the demand for new is at least 
quadrupled. 

Of the operas of Rossini that have been 
performed here, that of La Gazza Ladra is 
most peculiarly liable to all the objections I 
have made to the new style of drama, of 
which it is the most striking example. Its 
finales, and many of its very numerous pezzi 
concertati are uncommonly loud, and the 
lavish use made of the noisy instruments ap- 
pears to my judgement singularly inappro- 
priate to the subject, which though it might 
have been rendered touching,* is far from 
calling for such warlike accompaniments. 
Nothing can be more absurd than the manner 
in which this simple story is represented in 
the Italian piece (taken, as well as the Eng- 
lish one on the same subject, from La pie 

* That it may be so in a high degree, all must have 
felt who have seen Miss Kelly act the part in the Maid 
and the Magpie. 



ROSSINI'. 129 

voleuse), or than to see a young peasant 
servant girl, accused of a petty theft, led to 
trial and execution under a guard of soldiers 
with military music. But this is a melo- 
drama, in which it is not merely allowable 
but almost necessary to violate truth, nature, 
and probability. This can have been done 
only to afford the composer an opportunity 
of indulging his taste for t\\e fortissimo. 

The opera of Tancredi is much liked by 
his admirers, and there are certainly two or 
three very good and pleasing pieces of music 
in it : but when the principal, or at least the 
favourite, song of a first man in a heroic opera 
is not only capable of being converted into a 
quadrille, but appears better adapted to that 
purpose than any other, all idea of its pro- 
priety and fitness for its situation must be 
put totally out of the question. Yet such is 
the case with the famous air, Di tanti palpiti, 
which, though pleasing in itself, is composed 
extremely in the style of a real French contre- 
danse. But not this only has been so con- 
G 5 



130 AOSSIKI. 

verted ; half of Rossini's operas are turned 
into quadrilles ; nay even Mose in Egitto, a 
sacred Oratorio ! Were it possible so to con- 
vert Handel's, we should deem it a profanation. 
But what shall we think of the judgement of 
that composer who could set solemn words 
to music so light and trivial as to allow of 
it ? I have often heard it seriously remarked, 
that his operas sound best when thus per- 
formed without the voices. Strange praise 
for vocal music, which I have ever considered 
as the finest vehicle for feeling and for pas- 
sion, and as giving greater expression to 
words than can otherwise be conveyed ; there- 
fore when it is really good they must be in- 
separably united. At the same time I must 
allow there is truth in the remark, for Ros- 
sini gives so much importance to the or- 
chestra, and so labours his accompaniments, 
that the vocal part is really often the least 
prominent, and overwhelmed, not supported.* 

* Many songs of the old masters would be very in- 
differently sung by modern performers, not on account 



11OSSIJU. 

The serious operas of Mose in Egitto (per- 
formed here under the name of Pietro 1'Ere- 
mita) and Otello, are much better than the 
former which I have named, and contain 
some very fine pieces : and I must exempt 
from all censure his Turco in Italia, which is 
a light, lively, and thoroughly pleasant opera 
buffa. The Barbiere di Seviglia, La Cene- 
rentola, L'ltaliana in Algieri, and Elisabetta, 
have been also performed, the first with suc- 
cess, the others with little or none.* 

of their difficulty, but their apparent facility. Com- 
posers, when writing for a first-rate singer, noted down 
merely a simple tema with the slightest possible accom- 
paniment, which, if sung as written, would be cold, 
bald, and insipid. It was left to the singer to fill up 
the outline, to give it the light and shade, and all its 
grace and expression ; which required not only a 
thorough knowledge of music, but the greatest taste 
and judgement. No one ever worked on such a canvas 
like Pacchierotti. 

* Since the above was written, many more of Ros- 
sini's operas have been performed, La Donna del Lago, 
Ricciardo, which have been liked, and another that 



132 MOZART. 

So entirely did Rossini engross the stage, 
that the operas of no other master were ever 
to be heard, with the exception of those of 
Mozart, and of his, only Don Giovanni and 
Le Nozze di Figaro were often repeated. La 
Clemenza di Tito was occasionally revived, 
but met with less success. It is singular 
how every other composer, past and present, 
were totally put aside, and those two alone 
named or thought of. That Mozart should be 
admired is not at all so, for he was undoubt- 
edly one of the greatest of masters : it is 
only strange that though he has been so long 
dead, his works should have been but so 
lately known and performed in this country. 
Of their beauty, their originality, their infi- 
nite variety, and scientific excellence there 

failed totally. Having been unable to go to the theatre 
I have heard none of them ; from the opera books I 
find there is not one song in Ricciardo, and scarcely any 
in La Donna del Lago. Semiramide has perhaps been 
the greatest favourite. I once heard it, and shall 
mention it in its place. 



MOZART. 133 

can be but one opinion, though by some his 
style may be thought not quite so agreeable 
as that of some of the excellent Italian mas- 
ters whom I have had occasion to name. It 
may at times have a little too much of the 
German manner, as many of his operas were 
composed for his native language and German 
singers. But his genius was not only original, 
it was inexhaustible ; his productions are full 
of diversity, and all possessed of intrinsic 
merit. The frippery and meretricious style 
of modern music is to the ear like tinsel to 
the eye, brilliant, striking, for a moment 
perhaps captivating, but it will, be transitory, 
and speedily lost in the fluctuations of taste ; 
and I think I may venture to predict, that 
Rossini will not long have ceased to write 
before he will cease to be remembered, and 
that his music will be thrown aside as that 
of so many of his predecessors and superiors 
already is ; while the name of Mozart, with 
those of his two great countrymen Handel 
and Haydn, will live for ever, and his compo- 



134 GRASSIKI. 

sitions, like theirs, descend as sterling gold 
to posterity, and be listened to with delight 
in all times and in all places, so long as' the 
natural taste and feeling for music, common 
to man in all ages and situations, and the 
love of its true genuine beauties, shall continue 
to exist. 

But it is time to return, after too long a 
digression, to my original purpose, and to 
take a brief notice of the singers who ap- 
peared at our Opera during this period. 

After Catalani left this country, the opera 
gradually declined, and fell at last to such a 
state of degradation as to cease to be fashion- 
able, and be nearly deserted. 

Grassini returned in 1814, but she was no 
longer what she had been. Her beauty 
indeed was little diminished, but her acting 
was more languid and ineffective, at least it 
appeared so after the more energetic and 
animated manner of her predecessor. Her 
voice too was changed ; she had endeavoured 
to regain its upper part, but in so doing she had 



FODOB. 135 

lost the lower, and instead of a mellow con- 
tralto, it was become a hoarse soprano. Still, 
however, she displayed much of her former 
grace and style, particularly in her favourite 
part of Orazia, and in a new opera of Didone 
by Paer. But on the whole her performance 
did not satisfy the public, and after one season 
she departed unregretted. At the same time 
Tramezzani also went away. 

The next year is a blank in operatical his- 
tory. So wretchedly bad were all the male 
performers that even their names cannot be 
remembered. The first woman, Sessi, was 
alone somewhat of a singer, with whom, 
though it was difficult to find fault, it was 
equally so to be pleased. 

The following season produced another 
total change, yet not much for the better. 
The company was a medley of all nations ; 
of Russian, Spanish, French, English, with 
a very small intermixture of Italians. It is 
true Fodor was an improvement upon Sessi, 
but she never greatly pleased me. Her voice 



136 FODOH. 

had sweetness, but she injured and confined 
it by not opening her mouth, and singing 
through her teeth. Her style was not truly 
Italian, nor could it be expected, for she is a 
Russian married to a Frenchman, had lived 
much in Paris, and never been in Italy : she 
is now gone thither and may improve. Yet 
she was much liked by many, and became 
almost a favourite after her performance ot 
Zerlina in Don Giovanni, which opera was 
brought out for the first time in the second 
year of her engagement, when a very con- 
siderable augmentation was made to the 
strength of the company ; to which were then 
added Camporese (of whom I shall speak 
more fully) and Crevelli, an excellent tenor 
of the old school, with a sonorous mellow 
voice, and a really good method of singing : 
but he was reckoned dull, met with no ap- 
plause, and staid only one year. A new buffo, 
Ambrogetti, was much more successful. He 
was indeed deservedly liked, for he was an 
excellent actor, with a natural vein of humour 



BELLOC. 137 

peculiarly his own ; but he was sometimes 
put into characters unsuited to his turn, to 
his want of voice, and deficiency as a singer. 
Yet he acted extremely well, and in a manner 
too horribly true to nature, the part of the 
mad father in Pacr's beautiful opera of Ag- 
nese,* while that of the daughter was delight- 
fully sung by Camporese. These additional 
performers, together with the production of 
Don Giovanni, and of the Nozze di Figaro, 
were very attractive, and again filled the 
theatre. Camporese, however, was suffered 
to go at the end of the season, to the prospe- 
rity of which she had so much contributed, 
and Fodor remained sole first woman for 
another year. 

The opera again declined during that and 
two following seasons, when Fodor was suc- 
ceeded by Belloc, f who, though a good 

* This drama is taken from Mrs. Opie's tale of the 
Father and Daughter. 

f Her name was here Italianized into Bellocchi, but 
she is married to a Frenchman named Belloc. 



138 CAMPOKESE. 

singer and actress in comic operas, was not 
pleasing from the coarseness of her voice and 
plainness of her person. She was rather 
like Storace, possessing most of her defects 
without all her excellencies. She however 
surprised the public towards the close of her 
engagement by her excellent performance of 
the part of Tancredi, for which nothing could 
be less suited than her figure ; but the music 
was well adapted to her voice, and her sing- 
ing it was really so good as to make her 
appearance of no consequence. 

The company for the three following 
seasons was throughout respectable, though 
without any very prominent talent among 
the male performers. Among them however 
may be distinguished the first tenor Curioni, 
who has a very sweet and pleasing voice, 
and is an agreeable though not a great singer ; 
and Zucchelli, who possesses the most soft, 
mellow, and flexible bass voice I almost ever 
heard. But it was headed by two excellent 
first women, Ronzi de Begnis, and Camporese. 



CAMPORESE. 139 

The former, with a pretty face and pleasing 
countenance, has a voice of great sweetness 
and flexibility, which she manages with con- 
siderable skill and taste, is a good singer, 
and a good actress, both in serious and comic 
parts. But she decidedly excels most in the 
latter. Indeed I have rarely seen a better 
bufFa. She made her first appearance in II 
Turco in Italia, and acted in it delightfully. 
Her husband, De Begnis, is an excellent comic 
actor. 

Camporese's talent is of a higher order. 
Born of respectable parents, and married to 
a member of the family of Giustiniani, she 
originally cultivated music only as an accom- 
plishment, yet made herself complete mistress 
of its science. Subsequent events occasioned 
her converting what had been her amusement 
into her profession, and she became a public 
singer for concerts only. 

It was not till her first arrival in this coun- 
try that she ever appeared on the stage, 
which she soon trod with all the ease of an 



140 CAMPORESE. 

experienced actress, and became immediately 
a very good theatrical performer, yet still 
retaining on the stage the genteel, lady-like 
manners for which she is distinguished in 
private society. She performed first in an 
opera called Penelope, which was not much 
admired, nor acted very often ; consequently 
she did not make so favourable an impression 
as might have been expected from her talents ; 
but every succeeding one developed them 
more and more, and added to her reputation. 
Amongst her happiest efforts must be 
ranked the beautiful and affecting part of 
Agnese before alluded to. That opera, which 
is of the semi-seria kind, is one of Paer's most 
charming compositions. She excels greatly 
in Desdemona, and in the opera of Mose ; in 
the latter Ronzi took a principal character. 
They likewise sung together in Don Giovanni 
and Le Nozze di Figaro, Camporese per- 
forming Zerlina and Susanna, Ronzi Donna 
Anna and the Countess Almaviva ; but in 
both these instances they should have changed 



CAMPORESE. 141 

characters ; for as Ronzi, by her figure, 
countenance, and sprightliness, is best fitted 
for comic parts, so are Camporese's whole 
style and demeanour most adapted for serious. 
In her first year she acted Donna Anna ad- 
mirably to Fodor's Zerlina, but afterwards 
assumed the latter from the greater popularity 
of its many light and pleasing airs. In La 
Clemenza di Tito she performed the first 
man's part, Sesto, and from its being written 
for a soprano, and therefore suited to her 
voice, gave more effect to it than either 
Braham or Tramezzani. She first acted that 
opera with Fodor, afterwards with Madame 
Albert, first singer of the grand opera at 
Paris, who chanced to be in England with 
her husband, the principal dancer. It was a 
curious novelty to hear a French singer in our 
Italian theatre, where, though she did not 
offend, she gave but little pleasure. But she 
was a good musician, had great powers, and 
of course a thorough knowledge of the stage, 
on which her manner was easy and dignified. 



CAMPORESE. 

Of Camporese's voice, and manner of singing, 
it may be said, that the former, if not of the 
very finest quality, is extremely agreeable, of 
sufficient power and compass, and capable of 
considerable agility : and of the latter, that 
it is regulated by good taste, and is full of 
feeling and expression. In short, she is 
worthy of the better days of the art, and, 
when she first came to this country, had in 
no degree adopted the modern style. She 
then sung only the compositions of the best 
masters, and her execution of them was 
faultless. On her return, from having in the 
interval sung to Italian audiences the more 
modern music, her manner had undergone 
a perceptible alteration ; so infectious is taste, 
and so easily, perhaps unconsciously, is it 
vitiated by bad example, either in singers or 
composers. She however yielded as little 
as possible to the prevailing style, and, even 
with this slight reservation, still was, in my 
opinion, much the best singer of her time, 
and the only one that ever at all brought 



CAMPORESE. 143 

back to my recollection, or in any degree 
resembled her to whom I shall always think 
every other must yield, the unique, the in- 
comparable Banti.* 

* On leaving England she retired from the stage, 
and lived at Rome under her proper name of Madame 
Giustiniani, enjoying ease and respectability, exercising 
her unimpaired talents for the pleasure of her friends, 
and never singing out of her own house. But, after 
a few years, some pecuniary embarrassments induced 
her to resume her profession. She returned to Eng- 
land, and sung at concerts, there being no vacancy at 
the opera. Her powers (as I was told, for I did not 
hear her) were somewhat diminished, and she met 
but with little success. She staid only a short time. 



144 ENGLISH MUSIC. 



SECTION VIII. 

Observations on English music Sacred music Glees 
Mrs. Sheridan Mrs. Bates the Misses Abrams. 

HAVING thus completed the account of the 
Italian Opera from my earliest recollection 
for fifty years, I will, before I conclude, 
say something of our national music, and of 
a few English performers, but my remarks 
shall be very short. 

Our theatrical music must be acknow- 
ledged by all candid judges to be greatly 
inferior to the Italian, although of late years 
it has improved, and if it continues to do so, 
and the latter still to decline, the difference 
will be, and indeed it already is, much less 
striking than it was within -my remembrance. 
But I shall not add any thing on that subject 



SACRED MUSIC. 1.45 

to the casual notices that have been taken of 
our stage. 

In another style I think we greatly excel, 
namely, in our church music. I have always 
been very fond of that of our cathedrals, 
which is truly solemn and elevating, and 
better suited to aid devotion than any other 
that I know. That of the Italians is in 
general too light and operatic (I except that 
of the Pope's chapel), and in all Roman 
Catholic countries the introduction of an 
orchestra of stringed instruments greatly takes 
away from the solemnity of the performance. 
The full swelling tones of the sublime organ 
should alone be heard, as in our's. With that 
sole accompaniment, our English services, 
well performed, are to me of the finest de- 
scription. Sacred music in general has been 
much esteemed and cultivated since the in- 
troduction of Oratorios by Handel, and has 
been executed with great excellence by per- 
formers of our own country, among whom 
Mr. Harrison was long a favourite, and 



146 GLEES. 

justly ; for he had one of the softest, most 
mellow tenor voices I ever heard, and a chaste 
style of singing : his only fault was want of 
energy and animation, which made his per- 
formance rather dull and heavy. Mr. Bartle- 
man, who is fresh in every one's recollection, 
was equally admired for his fine bass, or 
baritone voice, and for his masterly manner 
of singing. 

There is another species of composition 
more peculiarly our own, and which I should 
call our only national music ; I mean our 
glees, which differ from any thing I ever 
heard, and in their style cannot be excelled. 
Their harmony is so full, rich, and melodious, 
when executed, as they long were, by the 
Messrs. Knyvett, and the other performers 
accustomed to sing them together, that they 
completely gratify the ear, and he must be 
indeed fastidious, or greatly prejudiced, who 
cannot receive pleasure from their perform- 
ance. I do not know of any female singer 
at present who has exclusively devoted herself 



GLEES. 147 

to this kind of music, but there have been 
several ; and none who do not keep solely 
to it can execute them with equal propriety. 
If the leading voice permits itself to wander 
from the strict melody of the air, in order 
to show graces or agility, as is too frequently 
the case when singers accustomed to other 
styles are called in, the effect is injured 
instead of being improved, as the great beauty 
of those compositions is derived from the 
complete union and equality of all the voices, 
none preponderating, and from the simplicity 
of their execution. They then produce the 
effect of full chords struck on a finely toned 
organ.* 

But I have deviated widely from my chief 
purpose in entering at all upon this subject, 
which was to mention two great performers 
whom having once heard it is impossible 
not to remember, or, remembering, to pass 
over in silence. As my recollections extend 

* This species of music has of late years gone out of 
fashion, but seems to be reviving in the production of 
old madrigals, and composing of new. 



148 MBS. SHERIDAN. 

to half a century, I am old enough to have 
heard, as amateurs, those most delightful 
singers of this, or of any other country, 
Mrs. Sheridan and Mrs. Bates, who as Miss 
Linley and Miss Harrop were at the top of 
their profession, which they both quitted on 
marrying, while in the prime of life, and at 
the height of their reputation. Mrs. Sheridan 
to an angelic face (of the peculiar expression 
of which those who never saw her may 
form some idea from Sir Joshua's Reynolds' 
beautiful portrait of her as St. Cecilia)* 
added an angelic voice, of so sweet and 
delightful a tone and quality that it went at 
once to the heart ; and, combined with her 
touching expression, produced an effect almost 
heavenly, and moved every hearer. I heard 
her more than once when I was very young, 
and the recollection has never been effaced. 

Of Mrs. Bates I am much better able to 
speak, having frequently met her in private 

* This portrait is now at Bowood, the seat of the 
Marquess of Lansdowne. 



MRS. BATES. 149 

society, and heard her sing repeatedly. Her 
voice was perhaps not so celestial as Mrs. 
Sheridan's but was nevertheless one of the 
finest quality; full, rich, and commanding, 
of great compass, flexibility, and power. In 
her youth she had learnt of Sacchini, and 
had she continued his scholar, would have 
become an excellent singer in the Italian 
school ; but having attracted the admiration 
of Mr. Joah Bates, he took her from that 
master, and finished her musical education 
himself. He was not a professor of music, 
but most deeply skilled in its science, and a 
masterly player on the organ. His taste was 
exclusively for Handel, and it was he who 
first imagined and arranged the marvellous 
performances in Westminster Abbey, which 
nobody but himself could have conducted to 
such perfection.* Of course he imparted his 
taste to Miss Harrop, and she from that time 

* It was a subject of regret that Mrs. Bates was not 
permitted to sing at them; great as Mara was, her 
performance would have been still finer. 



150 MRS. BATES. 

devoted herself almost wholly to Handel's 
music, in which she not only most excelled, 
but never was surpassed. I have however 
heard her sing in both styles, and execute 
extremely well fine theatrical songs of her 
first master's composition. I have also known 
her to go out upon a staircase, and there sing 
without accompaniment, the simple ballad, 
" Shepherds, I have lost my love," making 
the whole house ring with the volume of her 
voice, which came over the ear with a most 
beautiful and almost magical effect. 

No subsequent singers have ever come up 
to these two, nor can any of the present day, 
however much they may be admired, be put 
into competition with them. Of all other 
English singers, Mrs. Billington alone was 
as good, but her voice was decidedly inferior 
to their's, and her style so different, that she 
cannot fairly be compared with them, but 
must be reckoned more as an Italian than an 
English singer, and as such has received all the 
notice and praise to which she is justly entitled. 



MISSES ABRAMS. 151 

There is but one name more that I shall 
mention, and that very slightly ; but when 
excellence in music is the subject, it cannot 
be omitted. It is that of the Misses Abrams, 
who were unrivalled in their line, and whose 
united voices formed the very perfection of 
harmony. But of them I shall not permit 
myself to speak ; private friendship might 
make my praise appear too partial. I restrain 
myself with the less regret from saying what 
I feel, because their talents (still fresh in the 
remembrance of many) and their merits of 
every kind are too widely known to need 
my panegyric, and too universally acknow- 
ledged to admit of the possibility of con- 
tradiction.* 

* Of the three sisters one only survives ; Miss 
Theodosia, now Mrs. Garrow, whose voice was the 
most beautiful contralto I ever heard. They all left 
off public singing many years ago. 



152 COLBRUX. 

>mBflj wv 



19 

SECTION IX. 

18241828. 

Colbrun Catalan! Pasta Caradori Velluti 
Sontag General Remarks and Retrospection. 

WITH the last Section these Reminiscences 
originally did, and perhaps ought still to end : 
for after this period I was for a long time 
unable to go at all to the theatre. But as the 
following seasons were eventful, I subjoin an 
account of them chiefly from report. 

The season of 1 821 produced an unusually 
large company of singers, no less than six 
prima donnas having performed during the 
course of it : namely, Madame Colbrun Ros- 
sini, Catalani, Rcnzi de Begnis, Pasta, Vestris, 
and Caradori. The first of these, as Colbrun, 

*c. 

was long esteemed the finest in Italy, both 



COLBRUN. 153 

as singer and actress. She is now married to 
Rossini, with whom she came hither, both 
being engaged on high terms, she to sing, 
and he to compose ; but both disappointed 
expectation. She is entirely passee, and her 
powers are so diminished that she is unable 
to produce any effect on the stage, where she 
gave little satisfaction : but her taste was 
acknowledged to be excellent, and she was 
much admired in private concerts. She ap- 
peared in her husband's opera of Zelmira, 
which was not liked. It contains, as I was 
told, some of his noisiest pieces, of which I 
subsequently heard one at a concert ; it was 
stunning. Rossini himself was so much en- 
gaged in pleasures and convivial meetings, 
as well as singing with great profit in private, 
that he neglected his engagement with the 
theatre, and did not complete the opera he 
was to have composed. He paid forfeit for 
his failure ; but nevertheless he and his 
wife realized a large sum before they left the 
country. 

u 5 



154 CATALANI. 

Catalani, who had come to England on a 
journey of speculation, was not regularly en- 
gaged, but only paid for occasional appear- 
ances, and as her terms were more advanta- 
geous to herself than to the manager, and 
her attraction not great, they were very few. 
She did not perform any of her fine tragic 
characters, but acted, five or six times only, 
her favourite comic opera II Fanatico per la 
Musica, in which she introduced some new 
song every night. Her powers were said to 
be undiminished, her taste unimproved. 

Ronzi retained her former favour ; but 
even she was soon eclipsed by the arrival of 
Pasta, who had sung here before, as second 
woman, in the year Camporese first came to 
England. She was then a young and pro- 
mising singer, but, though very pleasing, 
was little noticed. This was fortunate for 
her, as here she might have remained in me- 
diocrity ; but returning to Italy she has there 
so improved as to have become a capital per- 
former, and is now at the very head of her 



VESTKIS. 155 

profession. She will be spoken of more at 
large hereafter. 

The other two above named are but se- 
cond-rate prima, though first-rate seconda 
donnas. The versatility of Madame Vestris's 
talent is well known, fitting her equally for 
the Italian, French, and English stage. Her 
first theatrical appearance was in Grassini's 
part of Proserpina, which she acted in two 
successive seasons with Sessi, and with 
Fodor. She then gave promise of higher 
excellence than she has attained, but still 
she must be allowed to be a pleasing singer, 
and a very good actress. Caradori is a nom 
de theatre ; this amiable and interesting young 
lady is of a good German family ; her name 
was Mademoiselle Munk, and now is Mrs. 
Allan ; but she retains, and is better known 
by her theatrical appellation. I shall shortly 
speak more of her.* The male singers of 

* It may be observed as an odd coincidence that 
Pasta, Vestris, and Caradori all have acted the Page in 
Le Nozze di Figaro, and none more successfully than 



156 OPERA HOUSE. 

this year were nearly the same as in the two 
preceding. 

With all this collection of talent, the sea- 
son failed ; nor could it well be otherwise 
from the enormous expense of so unnecessa- 
rily numerous a company ; but other causes 
contributed to its bad success. Soon after 
its termination all the contents of the Opera- 
house were advertised for sale, and it appeared 
probable it had closed to open no more. In- 
terminable disputes and litigation, misma- 
nagement, and repeated losses, seemed to 
threaten ruin to whomsoever should be bold 
enough to undertake it ; but by some ar- 
rangement the sale never took place, and the 
same manager ventured to run the hazard of 
renewing his lease. 

If the last season ended unsuccessfully, that 



the last, who by accident, not choice, made her debut 
in that part; and it proved fortunate for her, as her 
charming manner of performing it laid the foundation 
of her subsequent favour. 



OPfcftA HOUSE. 157 

m 

of 1825 began in no very auspicious manner; 
for when the theatre was about to open, an 
alarm was raised that the house was insecure, 
from one of the main walls having given 
way. The licence was immediately sus- 
pended till it should be examined, and sub- 
stantially repaired, so as to remove every 
suspicion of danger. For this purpose it was 
found necessary to pull down and rebuild the 
wall of one end, a work which was imme- 
diately commenced. The manager engaged 
temporarily the New Theatre Royal in the 
Haymarket, which, though much larger than 
that where the Opera had twice taken refuge, 
was nevertheless much too small to accom- 
modate the subscribers, and receive such 
audiences as could afford any hope of profit 
to the concern, for which a company had 
been provided proportionate to the large 
theatre. Comic operas were chiefly acted 
there, in which Ronzi and Vestris were the 
principal performers. Under these disad- 



158 GARCIA. 

vantages passed a groat part of the season 
with very moderate success. 

At length the King's Theatre having been 
repaired with incredible celerity, the Opera 
removed home, and shortly after the great 
favourite Pasta arrived for a limited number 
of nights. During her stay the theatre pros- 
pered exceedingly, crowded audiences attend- 
ing it whenever she performed. About the 
same time Konzi fell ill, and totally lost her 
voice, so that she was obliged to throw up 
her engagement and return to Italy. Madame 
Vestris too having seceded from the Opera 
to confine herself entirely to the English 
stage, where she is so deservedly a favourite, 
and Caradori unable for some time to per- 
form, it became necessary, in order to repair 
these losses, to engage a young singer, the 
daughter of the tenor Garcia, who had sung 
here for several seasons. She was as yet a 
mere girl, and had never appeared on any 
public stage : but from the first moment of 
her appearance she showed evident talents 



GARCIA. 159 

for it both as singer and actress. Her ex- 
treme youth, her prettiness, her pleasing 
voice, and sprightly easy action, as Rosina in 
II Barbiere di Seviglia, in which part she 
made her debut, gained her general favour ; 
but she was too highly extolled, and injudi- 
ciously put forward as a prima donna, when 
she was only a very promising debutante, 
who in time, by study and practice, would in 
all probability, under the tuition of her father, 
a good musician, but (to my ears at least) a 
most disagreeable singer, rise to eminence in 
her profession. But in the following year 
she went with her whole family (all of whom, 
old and young, are singers tant Ions que 
mauvais) to establish an Italian opera in Ame- 
rica, where, it is said, she is married, so that 
she will probably never return to this country, 
if to Europe.* 

I have now to record an event which 



* This young debutante is now the celebrated 
Madame Malibran. 



160 VELLUTI. 

excited great curiosity in the musical world, 
and for a time was of considerable advantage 
to the theatre, closing its season with great 
eclat. This was the arrival of a male soprano 
singer, the only one left on the Italian stage, 
who has for many years, perhaps only from 
having no rival in his line, been looked upon 
as the best singer of his country. He came 
to this with strong and numerous recom- 
mendations, but under no engagement for 
the Opera, and he had been here some time 
before the manager dared to produce so novel 
and extraordinary a performer. No singer 
of this description had appeared here for a 
quarter of a century, so that the greater part 
of those who formerly were delighted with 
Pacchierotti, Marchesi, &c. were now no 
more, and a generation had sprung up who 
had never heard a voice of the sort, and were 
strongly prejudiced against it. His first 
reception at concerts was far from favourable, 
the scurrilous abuse lavished upon him before 
he was heard, cruel and illiberal : and it was 



VELLUTI. 161 

not till after long deliberation, much persua- 
sion, and assurances of support, that the 
manager ventured to engage him for the 
remainder of the season. Even then, such 
was the popular prejudice and general cry 
raised against him, that unusual precautions 
were deemed necessary to secure a somewhat 
partial audience, and prevent his being driven 
from the stage on his very first entry upon 
it, which seemed to be a pre-determined 
measure. At length the first appearance of 
Signer Velluti was announced to take place, 
on an unusual night, for his own benefit, 
granted him, it was said, on account of the 
great trouble he had taken (to use a theatri- 
cal phrase) in getting up the new opera, 
which indeed was true, for, as he has a per- 
fect knowledge of the stage, he entirely 
directed all the performances in which he took 
a part. As he had brought me a letter of 
introduction from a friend at Florence, and 
my curiosity was a good deal raised from the 
representation given to me of his talents, I 



162 VELLUTI. 

was induced once more to enter a theatre, 
and was present on that occasion. At the 
moment when he was expected to appear, 
the most profound silence reigned in one of 
the most crowded audiences I ever saw, 
broken on his advancing by loud applauses 
of encouragement. The first note he uttered 
gave a shock of surprize, almost of disgust, 
to inexperienced ears, but his performance 
was listened to with attention and great 
applause throughout, with but few audible 
expressions of disapprobation speedily sup- 
pressed. The opera he had chosen for his 
debut was II Crociato in Egitto, by a German 
composer named Mayerbeer, till then totally 
unknown in this country. The music was 
quite of the new school, but not copied from 
its founder Rossini : it was original, odd, 
flighty, and might even be termed fantastic^ 
but at times beautiful ; here and there most 
delightful melodies and harmonies occurred, 
but it was unequal. Solos were as rare as 
in all the modern operas, but the numerous 



CARADOKI. 163 

concerted pieces much shorter and far less 
noisy than Rossini's, consisting chiefly -of 
duets and terzettos with but few chorusses, 
and no overwhelming accompaniments. In- 
deed Mayerbeer has rather gone into the 
contrary extreme, the instrumental parts 
being frequently so slight as to be almost 
meagre, while he has sought to produce new 
and striking effects from the voices alone. 
The first woman's part was filled by Caradori, 
the only singer left who could undertake 
it, Pasta's engagement having terminated, 
and her performance gave great satisfaction. 
Though from want of power she is not to be 
ranked in the first line of prima donnas, it 
may truly be said she is without a fault. 
Her voice is sweet, but not strong, her know- 
ledge of music very great, her taste and style 
excellent, full of delicacy and expression. In 
a room she is a perfect singer. Her genteel 
and particularly modest manner, combined 
with a very agreeable person and countenance, 
render her a pleasing and interesting, though 



164 VELLUTI. 



not a surprizing performer. The young 
Garcia also appeared to advantage in this 
opera. 

To speak more minutely of Velluti. This 
singer is no longer young, and his voice is in 
decay. It seems to have had considerable 
compass, but has failed (which is extraor- 
dinary) in its middle tones, many of which 
are harsh and grating to the ear. Some of 
his upper notes are still exquisitely sweet, 
and he frequently dwells on, swells, and 
diminishes them with delightful effect. His 
lower notes too are full and mellow, and he 
displays considerable art in descending from 
the one to the other by passages ingeniously 
contrived to avoid those which he knows to 
be defective. His manner is florid without 
extravagance, his embellishments (many of 
which were new to me) tasteful and neatly 
executed. His general style is the grazioso, 
with infinite delicacy and a great deal of 
expression, but never rising to the grand, 
simple, and dignified cantabile of the old 



VELLUTF. 165 

school, still less to the least approach towards 
the bravura. He evidently has no other, 
therefore there is a great want of variety in 
his performance, as well as a total deficiency 
of force and spirit. Of the great singers 
mentioned before, he most resembles Pacchie- 
rotti, in one only, and that the lowest of his 
styles, but cannot be compared to him in 
excellence even in this. He is also somewhat 
like him in figure, but far better looking ; in 
his youth he was reckoned remarkably hand- 
some. On the whole there is much to approve 
and admire in his performance, and I can 
readily believe that in his prime he was not 
unworthy of the reputation he has attained 
in Italy. Even here, under so many disad- 
vantages, he produced considerable effect, 
and overcame much of the prejudice raised 
against him. To the old he brought back 
some pleasing recollections ; others, to whom 
his voice was new, became reconciled to it, 
and sensible of his merits, whilst many de- 
clared that to the last his tones gave them 



166 VELLUTI. 

more pain than pleasure. However, either 
from curiosity or real admiration, he drew 
crowded audiences, and no opera but the 
Crociato was performed to the end of the 
season. 

The next (of 1826) began also with the 
same opera, but very differently performed.* 
Caradori, though still belonging to the com- 
pany, was unaccountably removed for the 
purpose of introducing a new singer of the 
name of Bonini, and Garcia's place was 
filled by a performer below mediocrity. The 
new first woman having frequently sung 
with, and been taught by Velluti, was brought 
over at his recommendation and desire. 
She was not without merit, and it was not 
easy to say what were her faults ; but it 
was impossible she should please : neither 
her voice nor her style had any peculiar 



* Caradori produced for her benefit Spontini's 
opera, La Vestale, which was much admired in Ger- 
many, but did not succeed here. 



VELLUTI. 167 

excellence or defects ; her person was small 
and very plain, and she was no actress. She 
was little attended to, and though never 
calling down disapprobation, was never ap- 
plauded. Velluti's favour sensibly declined, 
and in his second opera, called Tebaldo e 
Isolina, by Morlacchi, which he considers as 
his chef-d'o3iivre, he was much less admired 
than in the former. For his benefit this 
year (which I also went to), he brought out 
Aureliano in Palmira, one of the first compo- 
sitions of Rossini, and the only one of his 
operas in which he ever would sing. It is in 
my opinion one of the best of that master, as 
he had not yet, in his efforts at originality, 
fallen into that wild unnatural style which 
characterizes so many of his works. There 
are in it many beautiful melodies, and but 
little of the extravagant ornament and 
cramped passages he subsequently delighted 
to introduce. Those who are more conversant 
with his compositions, and can remember 
them (which I have professed I cannot) 



168 VELLUTI. 

say that this opera has been a nursery 
from whence he has drawn much for his 
later productions, and that there is scarcely 
one good motivo in it which he has not trans- 
planted into some other. The first woman's 
part was again filled by Bonini, a miserable 
representative of the heroic Zenobia. But I 
now discovered why Velluti preferred her to 
any other performer. Pasta had returned to 
England some time before for her usual short 
engagement, but they never appeared in the 
same opera. This was thought to be occa- 
sioned by jealousy or rivalry in one or both : 
Velluti however was in the right to decline 
it. She would not only have overpowered 
him with the strength and volume of her 
voice, but her style is so different, often so 
superior to his own, that they could never 
have harmonized well : whereas Bonini, 
trained by him, accustomed to sing with him, 
and having acquired all his peculiar graces, 
was exactly suited to him by equality of 
power, and similarity of style : in the duettos 



PASTA. 169 

accordingly nothing could be more perfect 
than the union of their voices. 

I was enabled to form this judgment and 
comparison by having, at an earlier period 
of the season been present at Pasta's benefit, 
and witnessed her performance of Mayer's 
celebrated opera of Medea. Having heard 
her once before at a private concert, with, I 
own, less pleasure than I had anticipated, I 
had much curiosity to see her on the stage, 
and there she fully answered my highest ex- 
pectations. In a small room her voice was 
too loud, and sometimes harsh ; her manner 
too forcible and vehement : * but in the 



* It may here be remarked that the modern music 
spoils the singers for concerts, especially in private 
houses. The constantly singing concerted pieces, 
adapted only for the theatre, gives them the habit of 
so forcing their voices that they know not how to 
moderate them to the small space of an ordinary room. 
Neither are noisy finales and such like pieces suited 
to the place, or agreeable, without the orchestra and 
without action. The ear is often absolutely pained by 
I 



170 PASTA. 

theatre all blemishes disappeared : she is 
really a first-rate performer, both as singer 
and actress, and that by mere dint of talent, 
without any very pre-eminent natural quali- 
fications ; for, though a pretty woman, her 
figure is short and not graceful ; and her 
voice, though powerful and extensive, is not 
of the very finest quality, not free from de- 
fects. No part could be more calculated to 
display her powers than that of Medea, 
which affords opportunities for the deepest 
pathos, and the most energetic passion. In 
both she was eminently successful, and her 



their loudness. Add to this, that few singers can 
venture upon pieces so difficult and intricate, without 
having practised them together: so that the frequenters 
of the opera hear again in concerts only the same 
music they are perhaps satiated with at the theatre. 
How different this from the time when Pacchierotti, 
Mara, &c., could charm with an endless variety of the 
most beautiful songs, as well as by the delicacy of their 
execution of them. 



PASTA. 171 

performance both surprized and delighted 
me. None since Band's had equalled it, 
and perhaps she even excelled her great pre- 
decessor as an actress, though in quality and 
sweetness of voice she infinitely falls short of 
her. It would be unfair not to add that the 
whole opera was well performed. Caradori 
acted and sung charmingly, the tender, gentle 
part of Creusa, and Curioni was animated 
and effective in that of Jason. Even the 
second tenor, Torri, who possesses a very 
sweet, but feeble voice, filled very creditably 
the part assigned to him. He has much 
taste, and is a pleasing singer in a room. 

Pasta's other principal characters are that 
of Romeo, of Zingarelli ; Semiramide, of 
Rossini ; and Tancredi, all of which she is 
said to perform admirably. In the last, her 
manner of singing Di tanti palpiti is much 
better than that of any other performer of 
the part : she sings it much slower, thereby 
doing away, in a great degree, with its 



172 PASTA. 

country-dance-like character.* She has also 
appeared in Paesiello's Nina, but in that is 
reported to have failed, making the character 
rather imbecile than insane. The opera too 
was mangled and curtailed into one act, and 
even so thought too long and tiresome, so 
entirely has taste changed, and the music of 
one of the most delightful of all Italian mas- 
ters gone out of fashion. 

At the end of the season Pasta and Velluti 
both left England ; the former with pressing 
invitations to return, the latter probably never 
to be again engaged at our Opera. But he 
came again several seasons for a short time, 
to sing at concerts, and teach music, having 
opened an academy for that purpose. 

* This seems to be the more proper, as the motive 
is taken from a Latin Litany, which Rossini has not 
scrupled to adopt as his own : his other favourite 
cavatina, Di piacer mi halza il core, is a wild air sung 
by the Sicilian peasants : so much for the originality of 
his two most popular songs. 



6ENERAL REMARKS. 

The next was ushered in by the announce- 
ment of a most numerous company ; but of 
the long list, comprehending names of great 
note, scarcely any were engaged for the whole 
season. Caradori opened it, but was soon 
superseded by a Miss Fanny Ayton, who in 
her turn yielded to a Signora Giacinta Toso. 
The former of these, a young English woman 
who has acted in Italy, is said to have some 
merit, but an indifferent voice. The second 
has the recommendation not only of a bril- 
liant voice, but of extraordinary beauty : but 
this was her first appearance on any stage, 
and she is extremely young ; consequently 
she cannot yet be a finished prima donna, 
whatever promise of future excellence she 
may hold out.* There came too a Signora 
Brizzi, a very weak contralta ; and Brambilla, 
another debutante, with a fine voice of the 
same description. Madame Vestris was also 

* She soon married Puzzi, the celebrated player on 
the horn. 



174 GENERAL REMARKS 

occasionally called in. Pasta came in the 
spring as usual on a short engagement, and 
of course set aside all the others, or reduced 
them to seconda donnas. She performed for 
her benefit this year, an opera of Coccia's, 
called Maria Stuart, in which Madame Toso 
Puzzi also sung, but it did not greatly please. 
For Madame Puzzi's benefit, Didone, by Mer- 
cadante, was produced, she acting JEneas, and 
Pasta, Dido. This opera was a lamentable 
mangling of Metastasio's beautiful drama. 
Among the men, Zuchelli, so justly a fa- 
vourite, remained only a short time, and was 
replaced by Galli, another basso cantante of 
eminence. Curioni was the only good per- 
manent performer. 

Such was the unsettled, fluctuating state of 
an inefficient company ; such the lavish, ill- 
judged expense of a management, which can 
be productive of nothing but confusion. In 
fact, there seldom is now a complete estab- 
lished company, a new and most injudicious 
custom having prevailed of late years of divid- 



AND RETROSPECTION. 175 

ing the season into portions, one performer 
coming for the early, another for the latter 
part of it ; some for three months, others for 
still shorter periods ; so that the public may 
be deprived of their greatest favourite, and 
of the most admired operas, in the height of 
their popularity, and others substituted not 
so well approved. If this be unfair to the 
audiences, it is no less injurious to the 
manager, who thereby is not only kept in 
uncertainty, and may, by a non-arrival, be left 
without any singers at all, but incurs a great 
additional unnecessary expense. He an- 
nounces six or seven prima donnas, of whom 
the principal demand nearly as large a salary 
for a short period as for a season, and the 
rest are to be paid no inconsiderable sums 
without the least benefit to the theatre.* 
Two female singers of the first class, a serious 
and a buffa, are all that are necessary, with a 

* Pasta receives for three months double the salary 
Banti ever had for the whole season. 



176 GENEKAL REMARKS 

secondary capable of taking a leading part, 
or acting as substitute if required. More are 
positively an evil, and only embarrass the 
concern. It is impossible to employ them 
all advantageously, each will want to have 
her own opera, there being very few indeed 
in which there are two principal female 
characters ; and from their contending claims, 
difficulties, disputes, and cabals, inevitably 
arise. Whilst enormous expense is thus 
lavished in superfluities, a mean economy pre- 
vails in all the inferior departments, with 
regard to secondary singers, the chorus and 
orchestra : the scenery, decorations, and ward- 
robe, are in every respect unworthy of the 
largest theatre in the country. The ballets 
too have latterly been of a very inferior 
description, scarcely above mediocrity. Such 
are the consequences of a bad system of 
government, and of the want of a manager 
conversant with the Italian stage, a good 
judge of music and of singers, acquainted 
with foreign languages and foreign usages, 



AND RETROSPECTION. 177 

of liberal ideas, not sparing of expense, but 
judicious in the application of it ; knowing 
what is right, and firm in exercising his 
authority to enforce it : in short, one who can 
act for himself, and not be dependent on the 
ignorance or bad faith of subordinate agents. 
Such a one only can carry on the business of 
the theatre with success, and give to the 
English public a really good Italian opera. 

While such is the mismanagement of affairs 
behind the curtain, those before it are on 
a no less improper footing. This will clearly 
appear, from a comparison of what the opera 
formerly was with what it is now. It will 
scarcely be credited by those who are not 
old enough to remember it, that at the period 
when these Reminiscences commence, and for 
many years subsequent to it, the price of 
a subscription to a box for fifty representa- 
tions was twenty guineas a seat, so that there 
was a positive saving of five guineas on the 
season to every subscriber ; and that too 

when the theatre was differently constructed, 
i 5 



178 GENERAL REMARKS 

and the private boxes were very few in num- 
ber, not exceeding in all thirty-six, eighteen, 
ranged in three rows, on each side of the 
house ; * the front being then occupied by 
open public boxes (or amphitheatre as it is 
called in French Theatres) communicating 
with the pit. Both of these were filled ex- 
clusively with the highest classes of society, 
all, without exception, in the full dress then 
universally worn. The audiences thus as- 
sembled were considered as indisputably pre- 
senting a finer spectacle than any other theatre 
in Europe, and absolutely astonished the 
foreign performers, to whom such a sight was 
entirely new. At the end of the performance 
the company of the pit and boxes repaired to 

* The boxes were then much larger and more com- 
modious than they are now, and could contain with 
ease more than their allotted number of subscribers: 
far different from the miserable pigeon-holes of the pre- 
sent theatre, into which six persons can hardly be 
squeezed, of whom, in most situations, two thirds can 
never see the stage. 



AND RETROSPECTION. 179 

the coffee-room, which was then the best 
assembly in London, private ones being rarely 
given on opera nights, and all the first society 
was regularly to be seen there. Over the 
front box was the five shilling gallery ; then 
resorted to by respectable persons not in full 
dress : and above that an upper gallery, to 
which the admission was three shillings. 
Subsequently the house was encircled by pri- 
vate boxes, yet still the prices remained the 
same, and the pit preserved its respectability 
and even grandeur till the old house was 
burnt down, in 1789. After its rebuilding, the 
subscription was raised to twenty-five guineas, 
and subsequently to thirty, but then the num- 
ber of representations was increased to sixty, 
so that the admission never exceeded the 
usual pit price of half a guinea. Thus it con- 
tinued the whole time that I was a subscriber 
to the opera. It was not till the second year 
of Catalani's engagement, when she more than 
doubled her demands, and obtained a salary 
wholly unprecedented, that the subscription 



GENERAL KEMARKS 

for a whole box was at once raised from one 
hundred and eighty to three hundred guineas* 
Thus has she permanently injured the esta- 
blishment ; for the price once raised, has 
never been lowered, or at most in a very 
trifling degree ; and it is become quite im- 
possible for persons of moderate incomes to 
afford so unreasonable a sum for a mere 
entertainment. Hence has arisen the custom 
of halving and sub-dividing the subscriptions, 
so that very few persons have now the sole 
ownership of a box. Hence too, that of 
letting them for the night, and of selling even 
single tickets when not used by the proprietor. 
The evil of this practice is evident. Formerly 
every lady possessing an opera box considered 
it as much her home as her house, and was as 
sure to be found there, few missing any of the 

* In her first year Catalan! had the same salary as 
Mrs. Billington, 2000 guineas (500 more than was paid 
to Banti). I heard her say that price was ridiculously 
low, and that to retain her, " ci vogliono molle rnila lin- 
sterline" She demanded, and obtained five thousand. 



AXD RETROSPECTION. 181 

performances. If prevented from going, the 
loan of her box, and the gratuitous use of the 
tickets was a favour always cheerfully offered 
and thankfully received as a matter of course, 
without any idea of payment. Then too it 
was a favour to ask gentlemen to belong to a 
box, when subscribing to one was actually 
advantageous. Now, no lady can propose to 
them to give her more than double the price 
of the admission at the door, so that having 
paid so exorbitantly, every one is glad to be 
reimbursed a part at least of the great expense 
which she must often support alone. Boxes 
and tickets therefore are no longer given, they 
are let for what can be got ; for which traffic 
the circulating libraries afford an easy accom- 
modation. Many too which are not taken 
for the season are disposed of in the same 
manner, and are almost put up to auction, 
their price varying from three to eight or 
even ten guineas, according to the perform- 
ance of the evening, and other accidental 



182 GENERAL REMARKS 

circumstances.* I have known an instance 
of a box being asked for in the morning for a 
particular opera, but not taken on account 
of the high price demanded : in the afternoon 
of the same day the same box was offered for 
half the sum, and then again rejected, from 
the suspicious appearance of the tender. The 
next morning the reason was discovered ; the 
opera had been changed. This artifice requires 
no comment. In no other theatre in any 
country was such uncertainty of prices ever 
heard of: they every where are, and ought to 
be, fixed and invariable. 

While the boxes are thus let at prices so 
much too high, admissions to the pit are to 
be purchased beneath their proper value. 

* Even the performers who have benefits now adver- 
tise what sum they will condescend to take for the boxes 
in each tier. The invariable rule formerly was half a 
guinea each person : they could demand no more : all 
beyond that sum was a gratuity, generally given to 
favourite performers. 



AND RETROSPECTION. 183 

Half a guinea has at all times been the esta- 
blished price for that part of the house ; but 
by the convenient accommodation before 
alluded to they are now to be bought for 
inferior sums nightly, and if taken for the 
whole season, for not much more than half 
what it would cost to pay the entrance money 
at the door. This is as injurious and unfair 
to the proprietors of the theatre as the box 
system is to the frequenters of it. Besides 
these contrivances for filling the theatre, the 
manager has recourse to issuing orders of 
free admission (varying in number according 
to circumstances) that the benches may be 
occupied on unattractive nights : boxes even 
are frequently given away, or let for trifling 
sums, to create the delusive appearance of a 
crowded house, when in fact the money ac- 
tually received is barely sufficient to cover the 
evening's expense. 

From all these causes the whole style of 
the Opera House is totally changed, its audi- 
ences are of a different description, its comfort 



184 GENEBAL REMARKS 

entirely lost. The pit has long ceased to be 
the resort of ladies of fashion, and latterly, by 
the innovations introduced, is no longer agree- 
able to the former male frequenters of it.* 
Those who compose the best part of the 
audience, and who really pay the fair price, 
coming late to the theatre, find all the seats 
occupied by the holders of orders and of 
cheap admissions, while the boxes, being fre- 
quently filled by occasional hirers of them, 
afford no retreat to those who would visit 
the friends to whom they properly belong. f 
This is an abuse which the manager should 
rectify for his own sake ; for that of the sub- 
scribers the rent of the boxes ought to be 

* It has been improved since by parting off' the 
front rows into single seats, called stalls, which may be 
hired by the night, or for a longer period. 

f Most improper company is sometimes to be seen 
even in the principal tiers, and tickets bearing the 
names of ladies of the highest class have been presented 
by those of the lowest, such as used to be admitted 
only to the hindmost rows of the gallery. 



AND RETROSPECTION. 185 

lowered, if not to their original price, which 
may now be impossible, at least to one far 
beneath what is still demanded, though the 
first cause for raising it has long ceased. 
This might be done, if the establishment 
were judiciously managed, and its expenses 
reduced within reasonable bounds ; especially 
as the term of all the boxes which were pri- 
vate property (originally assigned to the 
lenders of money for rebuilding the theatre) 
is now expired, and they are become that of 
the manager, by which a very large addition 
is made to the amount of the subscription. 
The only plea that can be adduced for not 
doing so, must be, the pecuniary embarrass- 
ments in which former managers have plunged 
the concern, the vast debt yet unpaid, and 
the endless law suits in which its affairs are 
still involved. To these difficulties it is 
almost hopeless to expect that an effectual 
remedy will be found, or that the encum- 
brances will ever be entirely shaken off. 
Certainly not as the concern is at present 



186 GENERAL EEMAUKS, &C. 

conducted. The whole system is radically 
bad ; and nothing can restore the Opera in 
this country to its former respectable and 
agreeable footing, or the performances to that 
excellence which a public paying so dearly 
has a right to expect, but a total reformation, 
an entire change of proprietors, of managers, 
of all parties connected with the theatre, I 
had almost said, hampered and embarrassed 
as it is, of the theatre itself. 

The season of 1827 finished, as predicted, 
unsuccessfully, and the shutting up of the 
theatre entirely seemed to be the probable 
consequence. But out of evil good has 
arisen ; and the changes above alluded to have 
in part taken place. The Opera has begun 
this year under better auspices and with better 
prospects. There is a tolerably efficient com- 
pany of singers, with Pasta permanently at its 
head : there is also a good set of dancers, and 
(above all the most important) there is a new ma- 
nager, much more likely to conduct the concern 
with judgment, and, consequently, with success. 



SONTAG. 187 

Some time after the season had commenced, 
and after this account had been completed, the 
greatest curiosity and a most unusual sensation 
have been excited by the arrival of the cele- 
brated German singer, Mademoiselle Sontag, 
whose fame had long since reached this coun- 
try, and the most extravagant eulogiums had 
prepared us to see not only the finest per- 
former that had yet appeared, both as singer 
and actress, but also one of the most beautiful 
of women. To say that she has entirely an- 
swered to this exaggerated description would 
be flattery as unfair as the praises have been 
injudicious. In consequence of her high re- 
putation, she was received on her debut, in 
the part of Rosina in the Barbiere di Seviglia, 
with enthusiastic applause, and crowded au- 
diences have attended every night of her 
performance. Sharing with the public the 
eagerness to see and hear so great a prodigy, 
I again, after an interval of two years, went to 
the Opera, and saw her in the part of Donna 
Anna, in Don Giovanni. But I had previously 



188 SONTAG. 

heard her at a public concert, and have since 
at a private one : as she gave me more 
pleasure on both those occasions than on the 
stage, my opinion shall be given as formed 
from those specimens rather than the other. 

Mademoiselle Sontag, who is a very young, 
and certainly a pretty woman (from counte- 
nance and complexion rather than features), 
though far from being so transcendently 
handsome as represented, possesses a voice 
of great extent, brilliant clearness, and correct 
intonation. The upper notes are particularly 
good and pleasing, but the lower part of her 
voice is less sweet, and when forced beyond 
its natural strength, may be called rather 
shrill. It is not, in short, a true voce di petto, 
and has not the round, full, mellow tone pecu- 
liar almost to the Italians. Her powers of 
execution are very great, and the facility with 
which she performs difficult passages has 
perhaps never been surpassed. There is 
no appearance of effort or exertion, and no 
instrument could execute more neatly or 



SOXTAG. 189 

correctly. But there is a want of feeling and 
expression, both in the tone of her voice and 
her manner of singing, which (if the truth be 
confessed) render her a less satisfactory singer 
than many who have not her powers or talent. 
She appears to excel most (as it is natural 
she should) in the music of her own country 
in her native language. An air which I have 
twice heard her sing from the Freyschiitz 
with the original words, was very beautiful, 
and she executed it with a simplicity that 
made it truly delightful. It may be said, to 
her praise, that she is not lavish of ornament 
for the sake of showing of what she is capable. 
Of the theatrical performance I witnessed I 
am sorry not to be able to speak with equal 
commendation. The part of Donna Anna 
does not suit her, and by over exerting her 
voice, especially in the concerted pieces, the 
shrillness alluded to was more apparent. As 
an actress she is genteel and graceful, and 
nothing more ; she is said to succeed better in 
lighter and gayer characters. 



190 SONTAG. 

On the last occasion on which I heard her, 
she sung a duet with Pasta, which was most 
admirably performed, and their voices har- 
monized better than could have been expected 
from the difference of their quality. These 
two great singers ought not to be put into 
comparison with each other ; for while clear- 
ness, neatness, and delicacy are the charac- 
teristics of Sontag, power, energy, and strong 
expression are those of Pasta, who must still 
retain her undisputed pre-eminence as the 
tragic heroine ; while the other, by her real 
talent in her own line, will secure the conti- 
nuance of a high degree of favour, though the 
expectation, too highly raised, may not have 
been completely satisfied. 

The other parts of Don Giovanni were 
unequally filled. Caradori (whose benefit it 
was) sung sweetly, as she always does, that 
of Zerlina. Zuchelli, who is lately arrived, 
as the hero of the piece, was less lively and 
animated, and far less the libertine, than the 
original representative, Ambrogetti, but sung 



SCHUTZ, &C. 191 

the part muth better, from the superior ex- 
cellence of his voice, and greater delicacy of 
his manner, a quality in which he surpasses 
every bass singer I ever heard. Pellegrini, 
the Leporello, is a good buffo, but past his 
prime, and has nearly lost his voice. It was 
to be regretted that Curioni did not perform 
the tenor part, so well sung formerly by 
Crevelli ; and the inferior characters were all 
less well filled than on its first performance 
in this country, and subsequent revivals. 

In addition to the above-named performers, 
the opera company has been increased by 
another German singer, Madame Schutz, who 
has a fine mezzo soprano voice, and a good 
style of singing. She generally performs 
male characters, and made her debut as 
Sesto in La Clemenza di Tito. Caradori 
being likewise a German, no less than three 
of the principal singers at the Opera are of 
that nation. On the whole, the company 
may now be considered as very complete, 
and the season promises to be by far the 
most successful of any of late years. But 



192 GENERAL REMARKS. 

there has been, and there is likely to be, 
little novelty in the operas. Two new ones 
only have been produced, and neither with 
much success. Both were nominally taken 
from the English history ; Mayerbeer's Mar- 
gherita di Anjou, and La Rosa Bianca e la 
Rosa Rossa, by Mayer. Caradori was prima 
donna in the first, Pasta in the second, but 
they were little liked, and not often acted. 
The eternal repetition of the same old operas 
must at last weary the public, but no prospect 
is held out of any more new ones during 
the present season.* Pasta continues to 
perform her favourite characters, and revivals 
only are talked of for Mademoiselle Sontag. 

I cannot help here remarking, that never 
at any time within my memory was there 
so large a number of singers of eminence 
assembled at once in this country as at the 
present moment. Besides those engaged at 
the Opera, we now have Velluti, Ronzi, and 

* Pasta brought out for her benefit, one by Bellini, 
called Norma ; the scene of which is laid in Wales. 
It was not liked. 



RONZI, &C. 193 

her husband De Begnis, Madame Toso Puzzi, 
and other good concert singers. To sum 
up all, Catalan! is shortly expected, being 
engaged for the biennial musical festival at 
York. We shall then possess almost all the 
singers of great renown on the continent. 
The rage for music is revived throughout 
all classes, and certainly the taste of the public 
is much improved, good operas of Mozart, 
Salieri, Weber, and other excellent masters, 
having been performed in English with great 
success. The singers too are very superior 
to those of some of the preceding periods, 
in which I have had to complain of the want 
of excellence, as well as dearth of vocal 
performers. But while I give all due praise 
to them, I cannot be reconciled to many of the 
compositions they sing, and find no cause to 
retract any observations I have made on the 
general style of modern musi c . 

May 1828. 



SUPPLEMENT. 



The First Edition of these Reminiscences 
gave an account of the Opera for fifty 
years only, when my personal knowledge 
of it in a great measure ceased. To every 
subsequent republication additions have 
been made, which have gradually ex- 
tended it to above sixty. If, therefore, 
any trifling discrepancy should appear 
between the earlier and latter parts, it 
must be attributed to their being written 
at different intervals, and to the conclud- 
ing sections being founded more on the 
reports of others, than on my own ob- 
servation. 



SUPPLEMENT. 



SECTION X. 

18291834. 

Introduction Farewell to Catalan! Italian Opera 
Malibran, Pasta, &c. German Opera French 
Opera Giulietta Grisi, &c. 

WHEN I ended the last section, I did not 
think ever to have written another : nothing 
could be further from my intention than to 
make any addition to this book, and though 
solicited more than once to continue my ac- 
count of musical occurrences to the present 
period, I as often declined doing so, having 
more than ever renounced the opera, and 
gone to it (that is, the Italian) but twice 
during the last six years. I, therefore, am 
nearly ignorant of the performers and per- 
formances during that period, and have paid 



198 SUPPLEMENT. 

so little attention to what was passing at the 
theatre that I cannot recollect the singers 
or the operas with any accuracy or order ; 
still less can I pretend to give any criticisms of 
my own, or to speak of them in detail. Some 
whom I have occasionally heard in private 
concerts will be more particularly mentioned, 
and my opinion given on those performances 
which I have seen. My remarks on all the 
rest will be very short. Another circumstance, 
quite foreign to the Opera, has occasioned my 
writing at all, namely, the Musical Festival 
that has lately taken place in Westminster 
Abbey, to which these pages will be almost 
exclusively devoted. But not to leave so long 
an interval by passing abruptly to my principal 
subject, I have thought it better to insert a 
brief notice of the Opera, imperfect as it must 
be, since I closed the former edition of these 
Reminiscences, and make this assume a more 
connected form. Before, however, I do this, 
I cannot resist seizing the opportunity of 
taking my last leave of Catalani, though in 



CATALAN1. 199 

what I have to say I am personally concerned, 
and it may seem impertinent to introduce 
circumstances uninteresting to the generality 
of my readers. The admirers of that great 
singer will, I am persuaded, excuse me. 

I mentioned at the end of the last section 
that Catalani was expected in England to sing 
at the music meeting at York. She came 
accordingly, in the course of the summer of 
1828, to fulfil her engagement. When that 
was concluded, she traversed the whole island, 
and came, not professionally engaged, but on 
a tour of pleasure, to Plymouth (where she 
had been several years before), on a visit to the 
then Port Admiral, the late Earl of Northesk 
and his lady. Happening to be in the neigh- 
bourhood at that time, I had, of course, fre- 
quent opportunities of seeing her. During 
her stay of some weeks she was prevailed 
upon to give one public concert. There I 
again heard her sing, for the first time since 
she left the Opera in 1813. So much had 
been said of her falling off, and of the failure 



200 CATALANI. 

of her voice, that I was most agreeably sur- 
prised at finding how little change there was 
in her, and how well she had retained her 
powers during so long a period, and when 
arrived to at least middle age. It was, indeed, 
still beyond any other younger voice. She said 
herself that she had lost some of its upper 
notes ; but, she added, she had gained in 
expression what she had lost in compass, and 
therefore was, on the whole, a gainer. This 
was, indeed, true. She sung several songs in 
a style that no one else can equal, and con- 
cluded the concert with " God save the King," 
and " Rule Britannia," which last I always 
thought she sang better than any body. So 
she did on this occasion. It electrified and 
enraptured the audience. In myself, it ex- 
cited feelings with which music had long 
ceased to inspire me : it was impossible to 
restrain them. It may seem strange that in 
her latter years she should please me more 
than in the most brilliant part of her career. 
But so it was ; and I now found out that, 



CATALANI. 201 

although at that time I liked her less than 
some of her predecessors, I now liked her 
better than most of her successors. The last 
notes I ever heard from her were in my own 
house, accompanying herself on the piano- 
forte, in some beautiful little Italian canzonets. 
In person she is grown large, but still very 
handsome, with all her fine expression of 
countenance, and few or no marks of age. 
She had with her a daughter, now married, 
who sang a little, but inherited neither her 
mother's voice nor talents. I have since heard 
of her from Florence, near which town she 
resides, and I hope will long do so in health 
and happiness. 

I resume my account of the Opera, collected 
chiefly from report, and such other information 
as 1 have been able, not without some diffi- 
culty, to obtain. I shall rarely speak from 
my own knowledge; when I do so, it will be 
more in detail, and noticed accordingly. 

I left off at Sontag's arrival, in 1823. She 
was the great attraction of that season, and 
K 5 



MALI BRAN. 

continued in equal favour during a second, 
after which she quitted England, and soon 
after the profession, on her marriage with a 
man of rank in Holland. 

When Pasta went away, her place was 
filled (in 1829) by Madame Malibran, who 
had made so very successful a debut here as 
Mademoiselle Garcia, then went to America 
and married. After a very few years she 
returned to Europe, re-appeared on the stage 
under her new name, and soon gained the top 
of her profession. This had been foretold by 
Velluti, when she sung a secondary part in 
the opera with him. She then showed high 
talents, which he said had only to be matured 
by good tuition and practice (aided by ab- 
staining awhile from public singing above 
her growing powers), to render her a first- 
rate performer. Such she is now considered 
in every country she has visited. Here she 
made a great impression, and immediately 
rose to the highest favour. I went to hear 
her once in Semiramide ; but it seems I waa 



MALIBIIAN. 203 

unlucky in my choice, as all agree that in that 
part she is inferior to her rival Pasta, not 
having quite her force, nor as much majesty 
in her action or appearance. In characters of 
less energy she is much better, and best of all 
in the comic opera. She even condescended, 
in one instance, to make herself a buffa caricata, 
taking the third and least important part in 
Cimarosa's Matrimonio Segreto, that of an old 
woman (the Mrs. Heidelberg of the Clandes- 
tine Marriage), generally acted by the lowest 
singer of the company. From an insignificant 
character she raised it to a prominent one, 
and very greatly added to the effect of that 
excellent opera, which was then performed 
admirably throughout. In Semiramide, when 
I saw it, the principal male character, that of 
Arsace, was acted by Pisaroni, a singer of the 
first excellence, possessing the finest contralto 
voice of almost any female ever heard ; but 
she was, unfortunately, one of the plainest, 
and could never appear in the dress of her 
sex. She was fully conscious of this great 



204 P1SARONI. 

disadvantage, and always acted male parts ; 
nor would, as I have heard, accept an engage- 
ment till she had prepared her employers 
for the deformity they would see. To those 
who only listened, she gave unqualified satis- 
faction, for her singing was perfect. She 
remained here only one season. 

The opera of Semiramide is considered, by 
Rossini's admirers, as one of his best, and 
there are fine pieces in it ; but I own it 
wearied me exceedingly by its extreme length, 
not only of the whole as a drama, but of the 
individual pieces, some of which seemed to 
me as if they would never end. These tedious 
compositions completely exhaust my attention, 
till I am insensible of their beauties. Yet on 
that occasion this long opera was not thought 
sufficient for the evening's amusement, for it 
was followed by one act of the Barbiere, in 
which Sontag performed. Wearied as I was 
I could not help staying a part of it, to hear 
her sing Kode's Variations, which she did with 
astonishing neatness and accuracy ; but after 



LABLACHE. 

all, it is an instrumental, not a vocal, piece of 
music. I had seen once before the last part 
of Semiramide, little more than one scene, 
performed by Pasta and Velluti, who, though 
not regularly engaged, came forward on one 
particular night, for one of those strange 
medley performances now much in vogue. 
She certainly acted better than Malibran, 
he less well than Pisaroni. But the end of 
the opera (in a theatrical point of view) is not 
so good as either Bianchi's, acted by Banti, 
or Portogallo's, by Catalan!. The death of the 
heroine is not nearly so well managed, and does 
not give so much opportunity for the display 
of good acting. Two new male singers made 
their first appearance this year, Donzelli, a tenor 
of celebrity in Italy, with a powerful voice, 
which he did not modulate well, and Lablache, 
a bass of uncommon force and power. His 
voice was not only of deeper compass than 
almost any ever heard, but when he chose, 
absolutely stentorian, and he was also gigantic 
in his person ; yet when he moderated its 



MRS. WOOD. 

extraordinary strength, he sung pleasingly and 
well. He was a most excellent actor, espe- 
cially in comic operas, in which he was, as I 
am told, as highly diverting as any of the most 
laughable comedians. 

It is impossible for me to speak in any 
detail or regular order of the subsequent 
seasons. I can give little more than the names 
of a good many performers successively en- 
gaged, and of the very few new operas 
brought out of late years. Whenever Pasta 
or Malibran were here, as they generally were 
alternately, for a part, at least, of the season, 
the opera was successful. Other prima donnas 
came who were either little liked, or totally 
failed. Among these were a Mademoiselle 
Blasis, and a Madame Meric Lalande, both 
French women, and too French in their 
singing to give much pleasure. In one season 
there was no good effective prima donna at 
the opening, and after some unsuccessful 
trials, the manager engaged, for a few nights, 
till Pasta should arrive, Mrs. Wood (formerly 



DAVID. 207 

Miss Paton), whose powers were equal to the 
situation, but she did not understand the 
language she sung ; a great disadvantage, 
which, however, her knowledge of the stage 
enabled her to overcome with tolerable suc- 
cess. The first tenor that appeared that year 
was David, son of the excellent singer who 
was here just forty years before. The 
younger did not equal his father, but had 
enjoyed great reputation in Italy. When he 
came to this country he was passe, and his 
voice become so unsteady that he was obliged 
to disguise its defects by superfluity of orna- 
ments and passages ; but he had always been 
too florid a singer. An opera in which he 
performed with Mrs. Wood, was L'Ultimo 
Giorno di Pompei, by Pacini, a very feeble 
composer. 

When Pasta came, later in the year, she 
produced Anna Bolena, an opera by Doni- 
zetti, in which another tenor made his 
appearance, Rubini, who soon became, and 
still continues, a great favourite. He possesses 



208 RUBINI. 

one of the sweetest of voices, of great flexi- 
bility, and is an excellent singer, but too fond 
of the over-florid style now so much in fashion. 
Lablache also performed in this opera. I 
heard them all three at a private concert sing 
some of the pieces from it, as a kind of 
trial, preparatory to bringing it out for Pasta's 
benefit. They did not please me, being of a 
forced, unnatural style ; but on the stage 
Pasta's very fine acting, almost horrific in the 
last scene, obtained some success to this opera. 
Another she performed was La Somnambula, 
by Bellini, who has composed a great deal 
of music expressly for Rubini, whom I heard 
sing very beautifully one of his songs from II 
Pirata at the concert above mentioned. In 
the last opera both those performers sung and 
acted to perfection. 

The year 1832 (at which I am now arrived) 
was less successful, though it had more variety 
than any other in this period. A new ma- 
nager had undertaken the opera, and he 
managed ill both for himself and the public. 



MERIC. 209 

It opened with a moderate company, the first 
singer of which was Madame de Meric, not a 
great, but far from an unpleasing performer. 
She was a clever actress, was possessed of a 
pretty good voice, and considerable versatility 
of talent, rendering her very useful, as she 
sung in serious or comic operas, first parts 
or second, and in any language. While in 
this country she performed in Italian, German, 
French, and English, and could have done so 
equally well in Spanish, had it been required. 
I saw her several times in German only. Two 
prima donnas came later in the year, neither 
of whom gave any satisfaction. These were 
Grisi and Tosi, and there was also Mariani, 
the rival of Pisaroni in voice, singing, and 
ugliness, like her, performing only male cha- 
racters. In the two first qualities she was 
certainly her inferior, in the last it was difficult 
to know to which the preference should be 
given. I was induced, unfortunately, to go 
one night to see Gli Arabi nelle Gallic, a very 
poor opera by Pacini, acted by Grisi and 



210 GERMAN OPERA. 

Mariani, a very indifferent tenor named 
Winter, and a bass no better. On the whole, 
I never hardly, in my long experience, wit- 
nessed a performance so mediocre in every 
respect. The other first woman, Tosi, had 
been greatly admired in Italy, but she was 
passee, and her voice grown thin and uncertain 
in its intonation. She had been a handsome 
woman. But she was not at all liked, and 
acted only a very few nights, having very soon 
quarrelled with the manager, and broken her 
engagement. I heard her once, at a private 
concert, as also Mariani, which latter had 
certainly a good voice, and was reckoned a 
good singer. 

The Italian opera being thus unsuccessful, 
the manager tried the experiment of procuring 
a German company of singers, and bringing 
out the operas of the best composers in that 
language. This novelty succeeded beyond 
expectation : the German opera became the 
rage, and the Italian sunk into insignificance. 
This company opened with Der Freyschiitz, 



SCHUOEDEIl DEVRIENT. 211 

which had for many years been known in 
translation, and was a great favourite in this 
country. Meric performed the first part in it. 
The real first woman did not appear till the 
second opera, when Beethoven's Fidelio was 
produced for the debut of Madame Schroeder 
Devrient. She was indeed a very superior 
performer, with a voice less sweet perhaps 
than powerful, capable of great exertion and 
strong expression. She was a capital actress 
(considered in Germany as by far the best in 
opera, as is her mother, Madame Schroeder, 
in tragedy), and one of the most striking and 
effective performers I ever saw. Though by 
no means a pretty woman, and without marked 
features, such as produce most effect on the 
stage, she had the power of great expression 
and change of countenance. In Fidelio she 
was throughout in male attire. I was present 
at her first appearance, and so charmed by 
her performance that I not only went to see 
that opera a second time, but never failed 



212 GERMAN OPERA. 

afterwards going to hear, once at least, every 
other that was acted during that season and 
the next. The whole opera was throughout 
well sung and well acted, by the tenor Hait- 
zinger, who had a very beautiful voice, very 
much like in tone, and almost equal, to 
Tramezzani's ; a bass named Pellegrini, and 
the second woman Schneider. But it was in 
the chorusses especially, that the excellence of 
the German singers was most displayed. 
These were performed in a manner quite new 
to an English audience. Those in the Frey- 
schiitz had made a most favourable impression, 
from the perceptible difference from all former 
performances of them. Those in Fidelio were 
still finer ; especially one of prisoners, so 
strikingly fine, and well acted as well as sung, 
that it was always repeated every night. The 
cause of this greater excellence is the very 
superior knowledge of music possessed by 
the Germans, who study it more scientifically 
than any other nation. Nobody who has not 



GERMAN OPERA. 213 

heard the chorusses of Weber, Beethoven, 
and other great composers, sung by native 
performers, can have an idea of their perfection. 
In the course of the season Don Giovanni 
also was acted, Devrient taking the part 
of Donna Anna, Meric, Donna Elvira, and 
Schneider, Zerlina. Another opera brought 
forth was Macbeth, taken from our tragedy, 
but very much altered ; the music was com- 
posed by Chelard, the conductor of the 
orchestra ; it was extravagant and not pleasing. 
Meric sung one of the most cramped and 
difficult songs I ever heard, with astonishing 
truth and precision ; it was entirely devoid 
of melody or beauty. Devrient's Lady 
Macbeth was a very fine piece of acting, 
particularly in the sleeping scene, to which 
she gave a novel though natural effect. But 
the opera did not please. 

In the following year the German company 
was transferred to Covent Garden Theatre, 
where I saw the Zauberflote, and Weber's 
fine opera of Euryanthe, which called forth 
all Devrient's powers. She was always ex- 



214 FRENCH OPERA. 

cellent, and enthusiastically applauded ; but 
was less well supported that year, all the 
other performers being new except Haitzinger. 
German operas were again attempted a third 
season at the Opera house, but Devrient 
would not come over, and they totally failed 
after a few nights, her successors being below 
mediocrity. 

Another experiment, in the year 1832, 
was bringing over a company of French 
singers from Paris, for the purpose of per- 
forming Mayerbeer's opera of Robert le 
Diable. They were the same that acted it 
when it first came out, consisting of Madame 
Damoreau, who had made her debut in this 
country about ten years before in the Italian 
opera under the name of Cinti (not her real 
name, but one Italianized from the French); 
Nourrit, the first tenor ; and Le Vasseur, first 
bass of the opera at Paris. The latter, I 
believe, is the person of that name who had 
sung here two or three seasons when the 
opera was at its worst. Meric also sung in 
it. Cinti when she was here before was 



FRENCH OPERA. 215 

very young, had a good voice, and was a 
promising singer, but not then fit for first 
characters, into which she was put by the 
interest of some injudicious friends, who 
wished to set her up against Camporese and 
Ronzi, but she was unable to compete with 
them. On her return to Paris, she continued 
to sing at the Italian theatre there, till 
induced to transfer her services to the grand 
opera at which her husband Damoreau is 
a singer. But she would do so only on 
condition of choosing the operas and parts 
she should perform ; and by her means, a 
very great change has taken place in the 
national opera, where good music may now 
be heard, such as will please other ears 
besides French ; and the former horrible 
screamings and howlings are nearly exploded. 
It would be happy if the alteration in the- 
atrical performances had stopped here ; but 
the French stage, once the pattern of decency 
and propriety, is now become a school for 
profaneness and immorality ; the most sacred 



216 FRENCH OPERA. 

subjects are exhibited, the most indecent 
exposed, almost without disguise, in operas, 
melodramas, and ballets. Of this per- 
verted style is Robert le Diable ; yet I 
am sorry to say it had been translated and 
produced at our theatres. I saw it acted 
at Covent Garden, and never did I see a 
more disagreeable or disgusting performance ; 
the sight of the resurrection of a whole 
convent of nuns, who rise from their graves, 
and begin dancing like so many bacchantes, 
is revolting ; and a sacred service in a church, 
accompanied by an organ on the stage, not 
very decorous. Neither does the music of 
Mayerbeer compensate for a fable which is 
a tissue of nonsense and improbability. Of 
course I was not tempted to hear it again 
in its original form, and it did credit to the 
taste of the English public that it was not 
endured at the Opera house, and was acted 
only a very few nights. 

This speculative experimental season did 
not prove fortunate. Malibran came towards 



TAMBURINI. 217 

its close ; and also a new bass, Tamburini, 
whose voice is sweet and flexible in an 
uncommon degree, and who is an excellent 
singer. I heard him once in a concert. 
These good performers arrived too late to 
repair the losses ; the receipts never covered 
the expenses, the singers did not get their 
salaries, and the manager became a bankrupt. 

In the ensuing year, the former lessee 
ventured again to take the Opera house, and 
still continues to be its manager. Of 1833 
little is to be said, although the company 
was unusually strong, with Pasta first, and 
afterwards Malibran at its head, and with 
all the male singers, except Lablache, who 
had sung in several of the previous seasons. 

That which has just concluded begun ill, 
for want of a prima donna, with the signal 
failure of two wretched substitutes who could 
not be borne. But Caradori, happening to 
be in England, was engaged for a limited 
time, and carried on the operas with tolerable 
success till the arrival of the first woman who 
L 



218 GHISl. 

was expected. This was Giulietta Grisi, 
younger sister of the former singer of that 
name, but very much superior to her in all 
respects, combining every requisite for the 
situation ; handsome person, sweet yet power- 
ful voice, considerable execution, and still 
more expression ; she is an excellent singer, 
and excellent actress ; in short is described 
to be as nearly perfect as possible, and is 
almost a greater favourite than even Pasta 
or Malibran. The male performers were 
again Rubini and Tamburini, with Zuchelli, 
Curioni, and a new tenor named IvanhofF, 
a Russian by birth, who has studied in Italy, 
has a very beautiful voice, and chaste simple 
style of singing, but little execution. The 
only novelty produced this season was Rossini's 
opera, called L' Assedio di Corinto, new 
indeed in England, but not so in Italy, where 
it was first acted a dozen years ago as 
Maometto Secondo, but totally failed. With 
some slight changes it has been brought out 
here under another name. It has in it 



GRISI. 219 

but little originality, though a great deal of 
noise ; a siege and 7'urkish music giving 
ample scope for the brass instruments. The 
rest have been only eternal repetitions of the 
old operas, hacknied by every singer in 
every season, till it is a wonder they can 
be listened to any longer. The changes have 
been rung on the Gazza Ladra, the Barbiere, 
Semiramide, and others, favourites in their 
novelty, but heard even to satiety. Grisi has 
also ventured on two of Pasta's best characters, 
Anna Bolena and La Somnambula, which was 
thought bold, but she succeeded completely 
in both ; the latter particularly is considered 
as her chef-d'oeuvre. I now regret that I did 
not go to the opera to hear all these excellent 
singers in their proper place, as I shall 
unfortunately have to mention them in another, 
where they were entirely out of their element, 
and be forced to speak of them in a very 
different manner. 

The new operas during this last period 
have been fewer than in any other of equal 



220 NEW OPERAS. 

length, and those few of less merit. Besides 
those already noticed, there have appeared 
some so indifferent as to be speedily with- 
drawn ; L' Esule di Roma, by Donizetti ; 
Romeo e Giulietta, by Vaccaj ; and perhaps 
one or two more. Bellini's Pirata and Som- 
nambula are the only tolerably good ones, 
and he is the best of the present composers. 
All the rest, Mercadante, Pacini, Coccia, c., 
either feebly imitate Rossini, or if they 
attempt originality, run into extravagances 
greater than those of the master of the new 
school, and in both instances are of course 
inferior. It is greatly to be lamented by all 
lovers of music that so little good is now 
composed, and that genius, as well as taste, 
appear to be extinct in Italy. The modern 
German composers are decidedly better than 
the Italian, and even French have latterly 
produced works which may claim precedence 
over them. Let us hope, for the credit of 
England, and to retrieve our character of 
being an unmusical nation, that the encourage- 



NEW OPEKAS. 221 

ment now held out to native talent in the 
line of composition may eventually be attended 
with success ; and that the patriotic pro- 
prietor of the English Opera house may be 
able to elicit any latent sparks of genius 
that exist among the musicians of our own 
country.* 

I proceed now to the principal subject that 
induced me again to resume my pen. 

* A modern work has just come to my hands, entitled 
Diary of an Ennutjee, by Mrs. JAMIESON, in which I have 
found opinions on the subject of Rossini and his 
imitators, so exactly coinciding with my own, that I 
could wish to subjoin them: but they are too long for 
insertion, and I will not injure them by garbled 
extracts. Indeed it would be only a repetition of 
what has been already said, almost in the same words. 
After describing in strong terms the present perverted 
and diseased taste, the Author exclaims, Must it be 
ever thus ? I once hoped it would not. Now I begin 
to fear that this, like many other miscalled improvements t 
has done a mischief not easy to be repaired ; and 
that a taste so diseased cannot without much difficulty 
be cured. 



MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

SECTION XI. 

1834. 
Musical Festival in Westminster Abbey Conclusion. 

HAVING been present at most of the cele- 
brated performances in Westminster Abbey 
half a century ago, I was exceedingly curious 
and anxious to attend those which have lately 
taken place in imitation of them, and vied with 
them in magnitude and grandeur. I went to 
all the concerts, four in number, with a strong 
recollection of the original from which they 
were copied, and with the determination of 
comparing minutely and impartially the pre- 
sent with the past. I will freely confess that 
my expectation was not raised so high as to 
imagine I should find them equal, far less 
superior, to the last, particularly as regarded 
the principal vocal parts of the performances. 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 223 

There are not now to be found singers of sucli 
excellence as then existed, and of the most 
eminent of the present day, few are now in 
England. The instrumental department was 
likely to be better filled, as also the choral. 
Those parts, therefore, I felt confident would 
be more effectively performed, nor was I much 
disappointed. The good singers for solo parts 
were few in number, not one transcendently 
excellent, and those whom it was possible to 
collect were not employed as much, or as 
advantageously as they might have been. I 
keep more particular observations for their 
proper place in the course of the following 
details, and shall make them fully, and without 
reserve. 

This Festival, as I have said, was in pro- 
fessed imitation of the commemoration of 
Handel, exactly fifty years ago, in the year 
1784, performances similar to which were 
repeated in 1785, 86, and 87. The King's 
illness then interrupted them for two years, 
but they were resumed in 1790, and 1791, 



224 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

which was the last. Of these, some descrip- 
tion was given before, but it was necessarily 
short, being written many years after they 
took place, and without any memoranda or 
documents to refer to. I now regret it was 
not fuller, that a closer comparison might be 
made between them and the present, of which 
it is my intention to speak at greater length. 

These, like the former, were given under 
the immediate patronage of their Majesties, 
who honoured all the four concerts with their 
presence. These were also under the manage- 
ment of a committee of eight, chiefly directors 
of the ancient concerts, with a numerous sub- 
committee of professional men, who, I believe, 
were not much (if at all) consulted; but they 
rendered essential service in another way. 
The conductor of the music was Sir George 
Smart, on whom lay the chief, if not the sole, 
charge of selection and arrangement. To 
these, the only real managers, were added 
between fifty and sixty names, with the title 
of presidents. Of that number I had the 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 225 

honour to be one ; but so far from having any 
allotted department over which to preside, we 
were neither taken into counsel, nor informed 
of any thing whatever, rior had any duties to 
perform. Yet we too were not without our 
utility, for to us were granted reserved places 
at double the price of the open seats, and we 
were not restricted as to the number for 
which we might apply. The eagerness of the 
public to be present at the performances, and 
the attraction of a secure place were so great, 
that the demand for them exceeded all expec- 
tation and belief, so that at least two-thirds of 
the Abbey were filled with the holders of 
tickets at two guineas instead of one. A few 
days before the performances any money 
might have been had for a seat. I have 
heard as much as ten guineas were offered. 
For the rehearsals, of which the tickets were 
half-a-guinea, above double the price was in 
many instances paid for admission. The 
whole of the middle aisle, and the front 
benches in the sides both below and in the 
L 5 



226 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

galleries, were appropriated to the presidents' 
tickets, each of which bearing a number cor- 
responding to the seat reserved for it, the 
possessors of them would have had not the 
slightest difficulty in finding each his own 
place, even had they not been guided by the 
gentlemen of the sub committee, who acted as 
stewards, and conducted every individual to 
his proper seat. The arrangement was in- 
comparable ; there was neither hurry, crowd, 
nor confusion ; the thousands of the audiences 
arrived, were placed, and departed with greater 
facility than at any public place, however 
small. The plan was admirably contrived, and 
perfectly carried into effect ; the excellent 
regulations laid down being strictly observed, 
and so clear they could not be mistaken. 
Equal good order was observed without, and 
the several lines of carriages reached the door 
appointed for their setting down without danger 
or difficulty. 

The fitting up of the Abbey on this occasion 
was very similar to what it was on the former, 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 

with some deviations, not perhaps for the 
better. The King's gallery occupied, as be- 
fore, the eastern end of the nave, but it was 
placed lower, and instead of ranging with the 
side galleries, was elevated but a few steps 
above the floor of the middle aisle, thereby 
breaking in upon the regular lines and levels 
so essential to the beauty and symmetry of 
architecture. By this position it did not, as 
formerly, conceal the organ of the choir, 
which partially appeared above it ; half of the 
pipes being seen, while the other half was 
sunk below, had a very bad effect on entering 
at the western end. The whole of that struc- 
ture seemed crushed and depressed, and would 
have looked still worse had not other galleries 
been added over it in consequence of the 
increasing demand for places as the time of 
the performances approached. These upper 
seats ranged with the sides, and what was 
resorted to as a convenience became an im- 
provement to the general appearance. The 
royal closet was splendidly decorated, and 
covered inside and out with crimson and gold 



228 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

draperies. On each side of the King's tri- 
bune sat the suite of their Majesties, and 
immediately below it the directors. On the 
right of the latter was a box for the Bishops, 
on the left for the Dean and Chapter of West- 
minster. Thus far it was just the same as at 
the commemoration ; but there were not, as 
then, boxes beneath these for the families and 
friends of the directors on one side, and of 
the chapter on the other. The latter, there- 
fore, lost their privilege and accommodation : 
but the directors had places reserved else- 
where. The side galleries projected too much 
before the pillars, for though many seats were 
gained by it, they seemed to narrow the middle 
aisle. The fronts of them were also hung 
with crimson. The effect of the whole was 
gorgeous, indeed too much so, as not in ac- 
cordance with the architecture of the Abbey. 
They were before covered with paper and 
gothic ornaments, much more appropriate to 
the building, lighter in appearance, and more 
favourable to the sound, which must have 
been considerably deadened by so much dra- 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 229 

pery. When the whole space was filled, it 
had altogether a fine effect, though less so 
than before, from the change that has taken 
place in dress, particularly that of the ladies. 
Then they all carne in full dress; now the 
permission, or rather the direction, to wear 
morning costume, detracted much from the 
grandeur of the spectacle; the King, his suite, 
and the directors, were all dressed in splendid 
uniforms. The female singers, following the 
example of the audience, appeared in dis- 
habille, hardly respectful in presence of their 
Majesties. 

The orchestra occupied, as before, the 
west end ; but several changes were made in 
its arrangement, which certainly were not 
improvements either to the look or to the 
effect of the music. A large organ was 
erected, in front of, and round which the 
instrumental performers were placed. But 
they were much concealed by desks, gaudily 
ornamented with gold, which dazzled the eye 
unpleasantly, and cast the players on the 
several instruments into so dark a shade they 



230 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

were scarcely visible. The order too in which 
they were placed was different, and the violon- 
cellos, instead of occupying conspicuous front 
seats, were almost out of sight. The singular 
and pleasing effect before remarked, of the 
bows moving simultaneously like a piece of 
mechanism, was now quite lost. The principal 
vocal performers of course occupied the front 
row. Behind them formerly sat all the female 
singers of the chorus on steps, raised in a 
semi-circular form, so that they were not only 
distinctly heard, but seen. On each side, 
seats rising in regular gradation into the side 
aisles were allotted to the male part of the 
chorus, without any interruption or separation. 
But now there was not room enough left for 
such an arrangement, the front of the orchestra 
being straight, instead of projecting consider- 
ably in the centre ; so that all the choral per- 
formers, female as well as male, were driven 
farther back behind the pillars, and quite 
parted from the central part of the orchestra 
by a bar or low partition. This was an 
obvious and perceptible disadvantage, placing 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 231 

them so much out of sight, and intercepting 
the sound of the voices. The consequence 
was, that the chorusses failed in some measure 
of their effect, and were not so powerful as 
they would otherwise have been. Yet the 
total number of the band was larger than in 
1784; but the instrumental and vocal per- 
formers were in different proportions : then 
the former predominated, now the latter. The 
voices too were differently combined. I sub- 
join the numbers that they may be compared 
together, and leave to better judges to decide 
which combination was likely to produce the 
best effect.* 

1784. 1834. 

Instruments .... 274 222 

Voices. 

Cantos . . 60 124 

Altos . . 46 68 

Tenors .83 64 

Basses .84 100 

273 3.56 

Total . . 547 578 

Total in 1785 616: 1786741: 1791 above 1000. 



23/2 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

The greatest difference however in the 
orchestra arose from the new system intro- 
duced in the conducting and leading of the 
band. It has been mentioned before, that at all 
the former concerts in the Abbey, Mr. Bates 
both played the organ, and was sole conductor ; 
also, that Cramer was the only leader. Now 
a different plan was adopted, Sir George 
Smart conducted, not playing himself, but 
beating time with a baton. This method has 
long been pursued abroad, but was not intro- 
duced into this country till very lately. 
Large orchestras in Italy and Germany are 
so conducted ; and in France it is universal, 
and followed not only at their grand opera, 
(where they are so proud of their premier 
coup (Varchet], but in the smallest theatres, 
with the smallest band, not the commonest 
ballad or vaudeville are ever sung without a 
baton. On my first going there (above fifty 
years ago) I was exceedingly struck with this 
(to me) novel fashion, and thought the per- 
formers must be very bad musicians, who 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 233 

could not be kept in time without that noisy 
accompaniment. One necessary consequence 
of this foreign adoption, was the change above 
alluded to in the arrangement of the orchestra. 
Sir George Smart was placed at a desk nearly 
where the keys of the organ were before. 
The organist was hid by a screen, and I long 
wondered how he and the conductor could see 
or communicate with each other ; but I 
learned afterwards that by a new and in- 
genious contrivance, the keys of the organ 
were turned round, so that the player sat 
with his back to the instrument and facing the 
conductor, who as before looked towards it. 
In a band so managed, the conductor is every 
thing, the leader nobody, the first fiddle being 
as much under the control of the baton as the 
last. On this occasion therefore, the leader, 
instead of being the most conspicuous person, 
was not visible. I sought in vain to find him, 
he being placed on one side, behind his desk, 
like all the inferior performers. Sir George 
Smart alone was conspicuous, and he was 



234 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

rendered more so by an opening left in the 
centre of the front seat, for no imaginable 
reason but to exhibit the conductor's back to 
all the auditors. In that central point for- 
merly sat MADAME MARA : the gap recalled 
her to the minds of those who remembered 
her there, and seemed to be left vacant 
because nobody was worthy to fill her seat : 
there was indeed no one. I will not pretend 
to say which method is the best, the old or 
the new, professing my ignorance of instru- 
mental performances, and orchestral effects. 
I shall therefore refer my readers to a high 
authority, which, even at this distance of time, 
and amidst all the changes that have taken 
place in music, must still have its due weight. 
I think few will even now presume to dispute 
the science, the judgment, the taste, of Dr. 
Burney. He it is who thus expresses him- 
self on this subject in his account of the 
Commemoration of Handel, written and pub- 
lished by the command of George the Third. 
" Foreigners, particularly the French, must 







IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 235 

be much astonished at so numerous a band, 
moving in such exact measure, without the 
assistance of a Coryphaeus to beat time, either 
with a roll of paper, or a noisy baton or 
truncheon. Rousseau says, that the more 
time is beaten the less it is kept ; and it is 
certain that when the measure is broken, the 
fury of the musical general, or director, in- 
creasing with the disorder and confusion of 
his troops, he becomes more violent, and his 
strokes and gesticulations more ridiculous in 
proportion to their disorder." 

Dr. Burney here introduces a curious 
anecdote of the famous French musician, 
Lulli, who killed himself with his own baton. 
In the violence of his gesticulation, he hit 
his foot so hard a blow that he died of 
the consequences of it. The doctor then 
proceeds : 

" As this commemoration is not only the 
first instance of a band of such magnitude 
being assembled together, but of any band at 
all numerous performing in a similar situation 



236 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

without the assistance of a manu-ductor to 
regulate the measure, the performances in 
Westminster Abbey may be safely pronounced 
no less remarkable for the multiplicity of 
voices and instruments employed, than for 
accuracy and precision. When all the wheels 
of that huge machine, the Orchestra, were in 
motion, the effect resembled clock-work in 
every thing but want of feeling and expres- 
sion. And as the power of gravity and at- 
traction in bodies is proportioned to their 
mass and density, so it seems as if the mag- 
nitude of this band had commanded and 
impelled adhesion and obedience beyond that 
of any inferior force. The pulsations in every 
limb, and ramifications of veins and arteries in 
an animal could not be more reciprocal, more 
under the regulations of the heart, than the 
members of this body of musicians, under 
that of the conductor and leader. The totality 
of sound seemed to proceed from one voice 
and one instrument ; and its powers produced, 
not only new and exquisite sensations in 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 237 

judges and lovers of the art, but were felt by 
those who never received pleasure from 
music before. These effects, which will be 
long remembered by the present public, per- 
haps to the disadvantage of all other choral 
performances, run the risk of being doubted 
by all but those who heard them, and the 
present description of being pronounced 
fabulous, .if it should survive the present 
generation." 

" Nothing discovered the admirable disci- 
pline of the band, and unwearied and deter- 
mined attention of the audience so much as 
the pauses, which are so frequent in Handel's 
music ; for these were so unanimously calcu- 
lated and measured, that no platoon, or single 
cannon was ever fired with more exact pre- 
cision or unity of effect than that with which 
the whole phalanx of this multitudinous band 
resumed its work after all the sudden, and 
usually unlimited, cessations of sound, com- 
monly called pause." 

The musical reader will excuse, or rather 






238 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

thank me for laying before him such long 
extracts from so eminent a musician and 
author. I have only one remark to make 
upon them. If perfection was attained by the 
old system, what more could be accomplished 
by the new ? 

That I may not have occasion to return 
again to Dr. Burney's book, 1 will insert here 
some other passages from it (though perhaps 
they would find a better place hereafter), 
descriptive of the effects that wonderful band 
produced, for the accuracy of which I can 
vouch from jocular demonstration, as well as 
from the feelings I myself experienced. 

" The effects indeed upon many were such 
as modern times have never before expe- 
rienced. The choral power of harmonical 
combinations affected some to tears and faint- 
ing ; while others were melted and enwrapt 
by the exquisite sweetness of single sounds. 
The universal rapture visible in the coun- 
tenances of this uncommonly numerous and 
splendid audience during the whole time that 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 239 

Madame Mara was performing the very affect- 
ing air, " I know that my Redeemer liveth," 
exceeded every silent expression of delight 
from music which I had ever before observed. 
Her power over the sensibility of the audience 
seemed equal to that of Mrs. Siddons. There 
was no eye within my view which did not 

" ' Silently a gentle tear let fall.' " 

" Nor, though long hacknied in music, did 
I feel myself made 

" ' Of stronger earth than others.' " 

" At the end of her performance of this air, 
the audience seemed bursting with applause, 
for which the place allowed of no decorous 
means of uttering." 

On this description, not in the least ex- 
aggerated, I am sorry to observe that in the 
present instance I neither witnessed nor expe- 
rienced any similar feelings. I saw no tears, 



240 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

nofaintings; nor did that general thrill pervade 
the hearers which then was manifested by 
signs so unequivocal. Admiration was ex- 
pressed with calmness and moderation, without 
excitement, and without emotion. 

It is difficult to account for it, but certain 
it is, that the bursts of the noble and sublime 
chorusses of Handel (for to his alone I confine 
that power) failed to electrify the audience in 
the manner and to the degree they did at the 
former performances, when they frequently 
were absolutely startling, and felt through 
every nerve. One of the most marked failures 
occurred in the very beginning. The burst of 
" Light" in the first chorus of the Creation, 
was so comparatively feeble to what I had 
always heard it before, that my attention, 
which happened to be attracted elsewhere at 
the moment, was not roused by the sudden 
crash it ought to have produced. It disap- 
pointed all. That there should be inequalities 
in the performances is not surprising, and a 
reason may be given why it should be so ; 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 

for whereas, on the former occasion Mr. Bates, 
himself a host, was the sole organist, and 
Cramer sole leader, seven organists and Jive 
leaders were now employed. This arrange- 
ment was obviously meant to afford an oppor- 
tunity to performers of celebrity for displaying 
their talents ; but it was injudicious, for it is 
clear that the habit of playing together is a 
great advantage even to the best, which was 
discernible in the performance of the Messiah, 
wherein were engaged Mr. W. Knyvett and 
Mr. Francis Cramer (the worthy son of his 
talented father, and quite fit to fill his place) 
who both always take the lead in the concerts 
of ancient music, and are well acquainted with 
each other. On the first day the organ, large 
and powerful as it was, was not audible : it 
might almost as well have been silent. It was 
not till the latter part of the second concert* 
when Mr. Turle, the organist of the Abbey, 
took his seat at it, and accompanied Israel in 
Egypt, that it was heard with proper effect. 
Then, indeed, its deep tones were drawn forth 
M 



MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

and its full chords filled up the harmony and 
completely gratified the ear. The difference 
was striking. In what has been said, no re- 
flection is intended to be cast on the other 
organists, who probably are all men of emi- 
nence. Dr. Crotch, who played part of the 
third day, is well known to be so. But all 
cannot be equal, and every player has a style, 
a mannerism, if I may so call it, of his own, 
which may not suit all occasions, or every 
kind of music. Besides, there is another 
thing to be taken into consideration. One 
good violin or piano-forte is very like another, 
and all can be played alike. It is not so with 
that stupendous and complicated piece of me- 
chanism the organ. No two may to an exact- 
ness be the same. The touch, the pedals, the 
stops may vary according to the skill or fancy 
of the builder ; and it is almost necessary for 
the organist, especially on such an occasion, to 
be a little accustomed to the individual in- 
strument he is to play. Therefore one organist, 
knowing it well, would have been much better 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 243 

than more. The number of leaders was of 
less importance, since by the new system they 
are all subject to the controul of the baton. 
The failure in the effect of some of the 
chorusses may perhaps be partly attributed 
to this cause, partly to some slight difference 
in expression, however trifling, and some 
diminution of the spirit and energy formerly 
displayed. Nevertheless, the choral part of 
the performances was the best, and gave more 
general, if not unqualified, satisfaction, than 
any other. 

It is obvious that these remarks apply only 
to the chorusses of Handel, which alone can 
be brought into comparison with the original 
performances, when the music of no other 
composer was allowed to be performed. On 
this occasion, compositions of various masters 
were introduced, and selections given from 
Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, and others of 
celebrity. I am not, nor ever was, a professed 
or exclusive Handelian, though I always 
highly admired his sacred works, and think 



MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

them more truly sublime than those of any 
other master whatever ; but I never wish to 
bear his music out of a church. Haydn and 
Mozart have always been greater favourites 
with me, and delighted me more frequently, 
their music being better adapted for general 
use, as of a less solemn and austere character. 
I therefore was glad of the opportunity of 
hearing some of their best sacred compositions 
so performed, and promised myself great 
pleasure from the variety they would afford. 
But I was much disappointed, and the inter- 
mixture was (to me at least) far from agreeable. 
Their styles are so different from Handel's, 
(hey do not accord together, and will not 
btarjuxta-positton. It produces contrasts too 
striking, transitions too abrupt ; and I now 
very much agree in opinion with some old 
frequenters of the ancient concerts, that the 
joining them so closely together is disadvan- 
tageous to both. I can have no hesitation in 
giving the preference over them all to Handel 
on an occasion like the present, and in such a 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 245 

place. The merits of the other three masters 
above named are universally known, and they 
are justly esteemed as of the greatest ex- 
cellence. Of the two first I have had occasion 
before to express my admiration ; with Beet- 
hoven I am but little acquainted. I shall 
notice their compositions now performed, 
when I give somewhat in detail an account of 
the selections made for the several concerts 
with which it is my intention to conclude. 

But I must first make mention of the prin- 
cipal vocal performers employed : and this is 
the least agreeable part of the task I have 
imposed upon myself, for it is that to which 
the least praise can be given ; and except in a 
very few instances I cannot bestow on their 
individual exertions very high commendations. 
But there are exceptions, and I heartily wish 
the arrangements made in the allotment of tin.- 
parts had made them, as they might havi- 
been, more numerous. 

Before I name the leading singers, I must 
in fairness premise, that the Directors of the 



246 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

Festival were unlucky in having so few of 
great excellence to choose from, and that they 
engaged all whom it was possible (and more 
than it was necessary) to procure. Still there 
was not one female fit to be what the Italians 
call prima donna assoluta, no Mara, to whom 
all the chief songs would of course have been 
assigned. Her part therefore was distributed 
amongst many. Perhaps there is not one in 
Europe (since Catalani's retirement) equal 
to filling her place, except Pasta and Malibran, 
who could not be got ; although the latter 
came to England on some other pretence, on 
the very week of the festival, and no doubt 
wished to perform at it. I believe indeed she 
offered her services, but demanded terms 
so exorbitant and unreasonable that it was 
impossible to accede to them, and the Directors 
were perfectly justified in rejecting her ; upon 
which she left the country immediately to go 
to Milan, where she is engaged on terms quite 
incredible. 

As therefore there was no super-eminent 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 247 

female singer, I shall depart from the usual 
courtesy of giving precedence to the ladies, 
and begin my enumeration with one who was 
decidedly the most prominent amongst the 
vocalists. I mean Mr. Braham, who on this 
occasion surpassed himself, and whose perform- 
ance was really quite surprising. He has long 
been at the head of his profession as an English 
singer, so long, that it is marvellous he can 
be so still. He is now far advanced in life, 
and it is almost beyond my recollection when 
I first heard him sing as a boy. Yet he 
retains in their full extent all his powers, 
without diminution or decay. His voice is 
just what it was in his prime : it is become 
neither weak, nor husky, nor tremulous, but 
filled with its volume all the vast space with 
the finest effect. His singing too was most ex- 
cellent. In my first account of him, I gave him 
credit for the ability always to sing well, and 
lamented his occasional deviations from a good 
style. No such fault could now be found. He 
now sung with the most perfect taste and judg- 



248 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

ment throughout. Nothing in particular 
could be finer than his delivery of the very 
beautiful recitative in Jephthah, " Deeper and 
deeper still," as also of that which opens the 
Messiah, " Comfort ye my people." 

I cannot help introducing here a few ob- 
servations upon English recitative, and I do 
so in this place that they may be general, and 
that I may not be under the necessity of 
making particular applications hereafter. Re- 
citative is not congenial to the English 
language, and very few purely English singers 
understand it. Most of them, especially the 
female, fall into a great error respecting it. 
They seem to consider it as an air, and in- 
terlard it with inappropriate graces, uniformly 
giving it in a drawling indistinct manner, spi- 
ritless and insipid, which totally mars its effect. 
The besetting sin of most English singers is, 
that indistinctness of pronunciation which even 
in a song is one of the greatest blemishes, and 
in recitative is still more faulty. The Italians 
never talk of singing it, but call it reciting, 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 249 

and so it is and ought to be. It is not melody, 
it is noted declamation ; and the first object is, 
not to warble it into an air, but to deliver the 
words with distinct articulation, sensible ex- 
pression, proper emphasis, and with just 
punctuation, if I may so call the necessary 
short pauses for taking breath, which are 
like so many commas. In short, it should be 
assimilated as nearly as possible to good de- 
clamation. To lengthen it out by slow delivery 
is as wearisome as the dull recitation of a bad 
actor, orator, or reader. Those who wish to 
avoid these defects, could not have a better 
lesson than from Mr. Braham. 

To return from this digression, the in- 
troduction of which will be accounted for by 
those who remarked some passages in the 
course of the performances. 

The first female performer I shall mention, 
as incontestibly the best, is Madame Caradori, 
of whom my opinion has been given so fully 
before, that it is unnecessary to add more 
than that she sang with her usual excellence, 

M J 



250 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

and was well heard, although it was feared her 
voice would not be strong enough for so large 
a space. This was by no means the case ; 
she gave universal satisfaction, but was em- 
ployed much too little, having only three 
songs allotted to her in the course of all the 
concerts. 

The next place must be given to Miss 
Stephens, who was so long the reigning favourite 
of the public, both on the stage and in con- 
certs. She has for some time wholly retired 
from the former, and has seldom been heard 
at the latter. Her voice has lately much 
diminished in power, of which it would appear 
she is sensible ; but she was induced to come 
forward again on this occasion, and in the 
present dearth of great performers, she was 
an acquisition. She must not, however, be 
judged by what she was, but what she is. It 
would be flattery to say she sung as well as 
she formerly did, the change in her voice 
made that impossible, as it has lost in extent 
as well as power ; but when she performed 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 251 

songs of moderate compass, and easy ex- 
ecution, she was still very agreeable, and left 
little to be desired. When obliged, as she 
injudiciously was, to attempt others of a higher 
description, she certainly failed, and could not 
give them with sufficient force. 

The third in order was Madame Stock- 
hausen, a very good singer and musician, but 
hardly strong enough for the higher styles of 
music. She has gained great favour here, by 
the exquisite taste and expression with which 
she sings national Swiss airs, than which (as I 
am told) nothing can be more delightful. 
Her skill and science enable her, however, to 
sing always well. 

The only other female singer deserving 
notice is Mrs. W. Knyvett, who is a very good 
second, and much liked at the ancient con- 
certs, having been educated in that school, and 
almost, if not entirely, devoted to that style 
exclusively. 

But besides these, there appeared on the 

list of PRINCIPAL VOCAL PERFORMERS 11O less 



MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

th&njif&cn others, the names of most of whom 
were never heard of before, and very few are 
likely to be heard of again, or rise to fame. 
I will not here insert any of them. Of this 
very large number three or four were singers 
belonging to the play-houses, of no great note. 
One only of them is even there considered as 
a first singer. It is notorious that many who 
do tolerably well on the stage, are not qualified 
to be heard off of it ; still less are fit for 
sacred music. It is not above once in a 
century that there arises a Billington. The 
rest, or the greater part of them, are, or were, 
pupils of the new Academy of Music, which 
being designed to profit largely by this Fes- 
tival (whether or not it is an institution strictly 
to be termed charitable, and therefore entitled 
to any share of the gains, I will not here 
discuss), it was probably thought right to 
bring forward its eltves, to show what it 
has accomplished. But nothing could be 
more ill-judged. Among so many young 
women there certainly were some fresh and 



IX WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 253 

sweet voices, but not one finished singer. It 
would not only be useless, but impossible, to 
particularise them ; such an equality of me- 
diocrity pervaded the whole, that it would 
indeed be difficult to discriminate, or range 
them according to the shades of greater or 
less talent they displayed. Their being so 
exhibited could be of no advantage to them- 
selves, and still less to the academy, by 
showing it had no better singers to produce. 
In instrumental music that school has been 
much more successful, and sent out scholars of 
great promise. Many are now performing on 
various instruments who already hold a dis- 
tinguished place in their profession, and will 
certainly, in time, rise to the highest rank in 
it. If these young vocalists gained little 
reputation, they certainly added but little to 
the pleasure of their hearers, who did not pay 
so highly to hear scholars and learners ; and I 
am confident I speak the sentiments of a large 
majority of the audiences, when I say they 
would infinitely have preferred hearing the 



254 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

best singers often to such a variety of inferiors 
once. Numbers do not make amends for 
want of excellence. There appeared great 
partiality and favouritism throughout the 
arrangement, as will be seen when I come to 
examine the selections. 

In the male department too the singers were 
numerous and various. Some, as Messrs. 
Vaughan and Bellamy, long known to the 
public, and grown old in their service, but not 
like Braharn, so happy as to have retained their 
powers. Others, comparatively young, and 
in their prime, though less known, and more 
seldom heard, deserve particular notice, such 
as Messrs. Sapio and E. Seguin ; the former 
having a beautiful tenor voice, the other, one 
of the best basses I ever heard ; both are 
excellent singers, and they were universally 
liked ; yet, strange to say, they were allowed 
to sing but once, though they might, or rather 
ought, to have had a leading part in all the 
concerts. Mr. H. Phillips, who is also a good 
bass singer, had much more allotted to him, 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 255 

and did justice to all he sung. The remainder 
of the principals, to the amount of a dozen or 
more, may be passed over in silence. Nume- 
rically, no concert certainly was ever so well 
provided with vocalists. Those included in 
the list of principals are no less than forty 
(independent of five I have yet to name), and 
every one of them had at least one solo 
allotted to them. The largest number of 
first singers I can find in the list of the 
former concerts (and that only in one) is 
twenty; in 1784 they were not more than 
fifteen. 

To this long list must be added the singers 
of the Italian opera, whom I have reserved 
to the last, not as a bonne bouche, but as 
a sort of hors d'ceuures, which might well 
have been spared, as they contributed little 
to the interest of the performances. These 
were Giulietta Grisi, Rubini, IvanhofF, Zu- 
chelli, and Tamburini ; the first engaged for 
two of the days, the men for one only. They 
could have been engaged at all, only for the 



256 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

sake of their names, which stand very high 
in their profession ; but though excellent at 
the opera, they were ineffective in the Abbey, 
and it was known they would be so, as none 
of them were at all accustomed to sacred 
music, not even of their own church, or knew 
how to sing it, particularly the prima donna, 
who so entirely failed at her first rehearsal, 
it was feared she could not appear at the 
performance, but she improved a little. Of 
the men, Tamburini alone did well. How 
different this from the Italians of former 
days, who sung Handel's music to the utmost 
perfection ! These could attempt only masses, 
and sung even those but indifferently ; so 
entirely does the bad modern opera music 
unfit singers for every thing that is good. 

It now only remains to give the programmes 
of the four concerts, with a few comments as 
well on the selections as the performance. 

The festival commenced on Tuesday, June 
24th, with the Coronation Anthem, " Zadoc 
the Priest," in compliment to the presence of 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 257 

their Majesties. This was proper ; but I have 
heard it performed with stronger and better 
effect. It was by no means so striking as it 
might have been, and it was remarked by many 
that this large band was not so loud as they ex- 
pected. This very fine composition did not well 
introduce what, was to follow, namely, Haydn's 
oratorio, " The Creation," which was given 
entire. The latter appeared tame and weak in 
comparison, though many parts of it are very 
beautiful, and some few of the chorusses 
extremely fine, almost emulating in sublimity 
those of Handel. The opening solo was per- 
formed by Mr. Bellamy; the ensuing chorus 
has been already noticed. The first air was 
sung by Mr. Vaughan, the next, " The mar- 
vellous Work," by Miss Stephens. It is a 
sweet composition, and she sang it extremely 
well. It introduces the charming chorus of 
"The Second Day." This was followed by an 
effective song by Mr. Phillips. The next 
piece is the air, preceded by a recitative, 
" With verdure clad," given by Madame 



258 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

Caradori delightfully. This was decidedly 
the best solo performance of the whole concert, 
in which that excellent singer had nothing 
more to do. Nothing was allotted in this 
oratorio to Mr. Braham but a good recitative 
accompanied, preceding the noble chorus which 
concludes the first part, " The Heavens are 
telling the Glory of God," by far the finest of 
the whole. The beautiful little trio introduced 
which gives it such pleasing variety, was 
feebly sung, but the finale was very fine. 

The second part of the concert comprised 
the second and third parts of the Creation, 
which are much shorter and very inferior to 
the first. It is unfortunate that this oratorio, 
beginning so well, should grow gradually 
weaker as it proceeds, the second not being 
equal to the first part, and the third the least 
good of all. I shall notice but few pieces in 
them. The part begun with a recitative and 
air by Madame Stockhausen, " On mighty 
pens the eagle wings.'' The song is a descrip- 
tive one, meant to express the notes of various 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 259 

birds. Such imitations are generally more 
fanciful than exact, but it is pleasing, and 
Madame Stockhausen sung it well. The next 
two pieces deserving mention, both as com- 
positions and for the manner in which they 
were executed, were the recitative, " And 
God said," and the air, " Now Heaven in 
fullest glory shone," and that immediately 
following, the recitative, " And God created 
man," with the air, " In native worth," the 
first sung by Mr. E. Seguin, the last by 
Mr. Sapio. Of these two singers I have 
given my opinion above, and can only again 
express my surprise and regret that they 
were heard no more. 

The chorus concluding the second part of 
the Oratorio, " Atchieved is the glorious 
Work," and ending with " Hallelujah," is 
exceedingly good. And here it were to be 
wished the whole had ended. The account of 
the Creation is complete, and the third part, 
containing only some dialogues and duets by 
Adam and Eve, is a useless addition. Though 



260 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

some of the melodies are very sweet, its pre- 
vailing character is languor and insipidity, 
without one spirited or enlivening piece to give 
it variety. Neither were any singers employed 
in it likely to remove those defects. The whole 
was flat, vapid, and unimpressive, I must 
therefore decline noticing it more particularly. 
The third part of this day's performance 
was the best, consisting of selections from the 
oratorio of Samson. And here the superior 
force of Handel's sacred compositions was 
clearly manifested. It begun with the over- 
ture, the opening recitative, " This day a 
solemn feast to Dagon held," by Mr. Vaughan, 
and the spirited chorus, " Awake the trumpet's 
lofty sound." Then followed, with its reci- 
tative, the song, " Total eclipse," which has 
long been esteemed one of Mr. Braham's best 
performances. He sung it with his usual 
excellence. Next came (as it is placed in the 
Oratorio) the fine chorus, " O first-created 
beam." After some recitatives by various 
performers, Mr. Phillips sung with spirit the 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 

song " Honour and arms;" but it is too long, 
and not a very pleasing one. A recitative 
was then introduced uselessly and inappro- 
priately, as in the Oratorio it is connected 
neither with the piece that now preceded, nor 
with that which followed it. Neither had it 
any particular beauty to call for its insertion } 
still less was there any merit in the perform- 
ance of it by one of the supernumeraries, who 
had nothing more to do. It would have been 
far better to omit it, and pass at once to the 
magnificent chorus, " Fix'd in His everlasting 
seat," which was very well performed. After 
some uninteresting recitatives, the Dead 
March in Saul was introduced, but failed of 
producing its usual effect, and excited no 
emotion, perhaps from being misplaced. As 
a strong, even too strong, a contrast to this, 
the air, " Let the bright Seraphim," almost 
immediately followed. This is one of the 
most brilliant and difficult of bravuras, trying 
to any voice, and absolutely cruel to the 
generality of singers, from the very high pas- 



MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

sages in it which few are capable of reaching ; 
and when the performer seems to be painfully 
exerting herself in attempting their execution, 
the pleasure of the auditors is greatly dimi- 
nished. Such, I am sorry to say, was the 
case on the present occasion. Miss Stephens, 
to whom the air was allotted, is no longer 
equal to it, and it appeared to be a task of 
labour and difficulty. At times she was but 
faintly heard, and was almost overpowered by 
the accompaniment of the trumpet. Under 
such circumstances, she should not have been 
required to undertake it. Now, indeed, Mara 
was sadly missed. 

The only remaining piece was the chorus, 
" Let their celestial concerts all unite," which 
finished the day with eclat, for it was the most 
forcibly performed of any of the selection. 
For the first time I was almost carried back 
to the former celebrations, and reminded of 
the impressions they produced. It was a 
noble close. On the whole, this first concert 
occasioned considerable disappointment, and 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 263 

is still reckoned the most feeble of the four : 
by some it was almost esteemed a failure. 
But whether from experience or greater con- 
fidence, or whatever else may be the cause, 
the performances improved as they went on, 
till they reached their greatest excellence in 
the Messiah. 

The first part of the second concert was 
a miscellaneous selection, and a more incon- 
gruous medley was never put together, with 
very little to admire in it. It began with 
Handel's Coronation Anthem, " The King 
shall rejoice in thy strength," which is much 
inferior to the other, but was given from the 
same proper motive. Then followed an Italian 
song by Rubini ; it was entitled Davide peni- 
tents, and probably belongs to one of those 
sacred operas acted in Italy in Lent, but cer- 
tainly was never performed there in a church, 
whatever it may have been on the stage. 
This was a great stretch on the liberty granted 
to depart from the rule of singing only English 
words. For Latin there is the excuse that it 



264 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

is the language of the Roman Catholic church, 
and that the words are always sacred, gene- 
rally scriptural. But this was a mere 
theatrical song in a modern language, quite 
unfit to be introduced in so solemn a place. 
It would not have been known to be sacred 
but for the name of David prefixed, and the 
capital letters beginning some words. If 
printed without those distinctions it might be 
supposed to belong to any common serious 
opera. As a composition, though it was 
Mozart's, it had little beauty ; and as to its 
execution, it was thoroughly insipid and in- 
effective. It was luckily the only interpolation 
of the sort. 

The next pieces were from Beethoven's 
Judah (to English words), consisting of a 
chorus, a solo by Vaughan, a quartet by him 
and three inferior singers, and another chorus, 
but none of them were striking. These were 
followed by Handel's beautiful song, " Angels, 
ever bright Pid fair," excellently sung by 
Miss Stephens, who was perfectly equal to 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 

its execution, and gave it with tender and 
pathetic expression. Then came a little of 
Haydn, extracted from his second service, as 
it was called, that is, mass, consisting of the 
" Kyrie eleyson," sung by Madame Stock- 
hausen, Rubini, and Zuchelli, with a chorus. 
The latter then sang a solo with violoncello 
obligato, followed by another chorus. The 
first of these pieces was part of the Gloria, 
" Qui tollis peccata mundi," the last, the 
concluding words of the Credo, " Et vitam 
venturi saeculi," quite unmeaning without the 
preceding sentences, nonsense if conjoined to 
those which actually did precede them. In 
thus garbling, it should be one object at least 
to preserve some sense. We were then 
treated with English again ; but of the two 
next pieces I wish not to speak. The first 
was an anthem by Sir John Stevenson, a very 
moderate composition, sung by Phillips, whose 
talents were thrown away upon it ; the other 
a song of Handel's from Joshua, " Oh! who 
can tell," which deserved to be better sung. 

N 



266 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

These were followed by a piece of a very 
different character, simple, and solemn in the 
highest degree. This was Luther's Hymn, 
most incomparably sung by Braham. The 
organ accompaniment, and the chorus per- 
formed sotto voce, produced an effect most 
devotional and affecting. This hymn was 
first introduced to notice in this country by 
Catalani, who sung it at the York music- 
meeting, where it gave the greatest delight. 
She could not sing it better than Braham, but 
the nature of her voice might perhaps be 
better suited to it, though, being a mere psalm 
tune, fit for the common church service, any 
voice may sing it. Throughout the whole 
performance, nothing gave me greater pleasure 
than this natural unpretending air. 

The remainder of this part was all Latin. 
First, a song of Haydn's, from his fifth 
service, by Grisi. This too was a disjointed 
sentence from the Gloria, " Quoniam tu solus," 
almost nonsense without the context. Of 
Grisi's performance enough has been said to 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 267 

show it was extremely moderate : her attempt 
at a shake was miserable. The air was a 
kind of bravura, a style ill adapted to the 
words. 

Next followed the whole Credo from 
Mozart's first service, of which the middle 
movement was a quartet, wherein Madame 
Stockhausen had a share. 

This part ended with a solo by that lady, 
with a quartet and chorus, forming another 
garbled extract from the " Agnus Dei." None 
of these pieces were effective, or gave much 
satisfaction. This mangling system is not 
more favourable to the music than to the 
sense. It is disadvantageous to any compo- 
sition to have a passage taken out here, 
another there, and not only separated from 
niose that lead to and connect them, but 
tacked together irrelevantly and unmeaningly, 
so as not to form a uniform whole as they did 
in their proper place and order, but a mere 
patch-work ; nor can a greater be conceived 
than was this first part of the concert. 



MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

The other two were a regular connected 
performance, for they consisted wholly of the 
Oratorio of Israel in Egypt, one of the finest 
and most scientific of Handel's compositions. 
It was performed entire at the former cele- 
brations, by the express command of George 
the Third, exactly as it was written, and with 
the additional, or as it was said, the original 
name of Exodus. The whole oratorio was 
then taken from scripture. Now, poetry was 
introduced, some blank verse, some in rhyme, 
consisting of recitatives and solos, none be- 
longing to the original, some, I believe, not 
even composed by Handel. These and many 
more interpolations had been made when the 
oratorio was performed, in three parts, at the 
ancient music, but were judiciously left out 
in the Abbey on His Majesty's discovering 
they made no part of the score. As not one 
of them was fine or well sung, it would have 
been much better again to omit them. The 
performance of the chorusses was exceedingly 
good ; but as the other vocal parts were not 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 269 

executed in a manner to call for any com- 
mendation, no mention shall be made of them, 
but I shall pass over to the end of the second 
part of the oratorio, and third of the concert. 
Then, and not till then, Braham and Miss 
Stephens, left silent too long, were again 
heard, but neither to the best advantage. He 
had to sing only the common recitatives be- 
tween the parts of the chorus, " The Lord 
shall reign," which are generally given to a 
secondary singer, and she the short solo (be- 
tween recitative and song) " Sing ye to the 
Lord," which again was rather beyond her 
present powers, and she did not give it with 
that force and electrifying effect which per- 
haps none but a Mara or a Catalani could 
impart to it. The very grand and most im- 
pressive chorus, " The horse and his rider," 
closed the day's performance. It will have 
been remarked how very little the best singers 
had to do in it, and that Caradori, who 
appeared in the list as engaged for every day, 
was not employed at all. 



270 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

The third day's performance commenced 
with a hymn composed by Haydn in honour 
of the Emperor, and answering to our God 
save the King, but not for a moment to be 
compared to it for beauty or grandeur. It is 
however a soft and pleasing melody, con- 
sisting of alternate verses and chorus. It 
produced no great effect. The whole of the 
rest of this part was taken from Judas Mac- 
cabaeus. The first piece selected was the 
chorus, " O Father, whose almighty power;" 
the second the air, " O liberty," with its 
introductory recitative. The violoncello ac- 
companiment was of course well played by 
Mr. Lindley, but it was to be wished he had 
not finished his symphony with so long a 
cadence, not quite in accordance with the air. 
I would here by the way remark that not 
instrumental only, but vocal performers also 
are much too apt to indulge in the bad habit 
of tediously spinning out their cadences to an 
unreasonable length. In the latter especially, 
there cannot be a greater fault. When ca- 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 271 

denzas ad libitum invariably closed every 
song, it was a positive rule to confine them, 
shake included, to one breath. A cadence 
a due fiati was by the Italians considered an 
undisputed mark of a bad singer. I counted 
no less than four respirations in one cadence, 
the deepest taken just before the shake, dis- 
joining it from the passage of which it is the 
natural and expected close. The effect of 
this is indescribably bad. To compress these 
extemporaneous effusions into a short com- 
pass, and so to sustain and husband the 
breath as to effect it, requires more skill than 
all the lengthened desultory wanderings which 
are now sometimes heard. But 1 also have 
wandered too far into criticism. To return 
to the point whence I digressed. The song 
last noticed used to be sung by Mrs. Billing- 
ton. I do not know whether it was composed 
for a soprano or a tenor voice : if the latter, 
it should have been allotted to a more forcible 
singer, for it was feebly performed. So were 
the three next pieces ; a recitative by Vaughan ; 



MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

a trio, " Disdainful of danger," sung in double 
choir by six men without one powerful or 
distinguished voice ; three better gifted in 
that respect would have made more effect ; 
and the duet and chorus, " Oh ! never, never 
bow me down," not ill sung by two of the 
fifteen. At last we were roused from all this 
insipidity by Braham in the song, " Sound an 
alarm," a spirited air, which he gave with his 
usual energy. I shall make no further remarks 
on this part, except that the chorus, " See the 
conquering hero comes," so familiar to every 
ear that every body can at least make an 
attempt to hum it, was the worst performed 
of any throughout the festival. It was begun 
out of tune by the semi-chorus, and never got 
quite right. A martial march was then intro- 
duced, and the part ended with the chorus, 
" Sing unto God." 

The second part was miscellaneous, and 
almost as great a medley as that noticed 
before, but there were finer pieces in it. It 
began with a Motet, by Mozart, in that sort 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 273 

of Latin verse in doggerel rhyme, common in 
Roman Catholic services, but very offensive 
to English and classical ears. Tamburini led 
the opening of it, and there were other solos, 
ending in a chorus ; but it was not striking. 
Next came an air, also of Mozart, sung by 
Grisi, beginning " Laudate Dominum," and 
ending with the Gloria Patri." She sung this 
better than that of the preceding day, and it 
was beautifully accompanied on the organ by 
Dr. Crotch. Then followed the beginning of 
a " Gloria in excelsis," by Pergolesi, in which 
two boys were introduced, choristers of the 
Chapel Royal and Abbey. They had sweet 
voices, but it was very injudicious to employ 
them, as there was no want certainly of 
sopranos. Boys can never sing really well ; 
and though their clear bell-like tones have 
often a charming effect in the cathedral ser- 
vices, they are not sufficiently formed to be 
brought forward as principals on an occasion 
like this. Such exhibitions are like school- 
boys reciting their lessons in public, a thing 
N 5 



274 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

not to be done except before select and par- 
tial audiences. We are now come to the best 
performance, not of this day only, but perhaps 
of the whole ; the magnificent scene from 
Jephthah, " Deeper and deeper still," with the 
air, " Waft her, angels." I have already ex- 
pressed my unqualified admiration of the 
manner in which Braham executed this diffi- 
cult and empassioned recitative, requiring so 
much pathos and varied feeling : it is not too 
much to say, it was perfect, and this alone 
would establish his reputation as a first-rate 
singer. The air also was finely sung ; but in 
the oratorio it does not come immediately 
after the recitative, which is followed by 
a chorus, concluding the first part ; and the 
air is the first in the second part. Both are 
sung by Jephthah, but there seems to be a 
propriety in the interval between them, as they 
do not naturally belong to each other. The 
song in its proper place is preceded by a short 
recitative introducing it more appropriately. 
This scene was followed by that which sue- 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 275 

ceeds it in the oratorio, the recitative, " Ye 
sacred priests," and air, " Farewell, ye limpid 
streams," performed by Miss Stephens, who 
was once more within her compass, and sung 
them with great sweetness ; perhaps with not 
quite so much spirit as might be wished in the 
last lively movement, but on the whole very 
well. We now return to Latin. First, a 
double chorus by Leo, " Dixit Dominus 
Domino meo, sede a dextris meis;" next an 
air by Madame Stockhausen, stated to be 
from a Litany of Mozart's, but the words do 
not seem to belong to any such service, being 
those of praise and thanksgiving, not of 
prayer. Lastly, another air, said to be from 
another Litany by the same composer, but it 
is quite impossible this should be the case. 
The words are so extraordinary for the place 
where they were sung, I cannot help giving 
them at length. " Panis omnipotentia verbi 
caro factus in cruentum sacrificium cibus et 
conviva." This is not very elegant latinity, 
nor very easy to construe word for word : but 
its meaning may be given in a single one, 



276 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

" TRANSUBSTANTIATION !" It was marked, First 
performance in this country (certainly it was, as 
Mozart did not live before the reformation), 
and it is to be hoped it may be the last. 
The reverend part of the audience, par- 
ticularly the chapter of the church where 
it was to be heard, would surely not have 
permitted, had they been aware of it. They 
were, evidently, not consulted. The air in 
itself was nothing, and sung by Ivanhoff with- 
out the least effect. The remainder of this 
part was a selection from Beethoven's Oratorio, 
the Mount of Olives, in English, parts of which 
were very beautiful. It consisted of a recita- 
tive and air, by Caradori, with a chorus. It 
need not be said she sung it well. The rest 
were recitatives by Vaughan and Bellamy, 
and a trio, and final chorus. 

The third part was shorter than, the two 
preceding, but it was also the best, every 
piece being beautiful. The first was the least 
so ; an anthem of Purcell's, consisting of a 
trio for three male voices, " Behold I bring 
you glad tidings," and chorus, " Glory to 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 277 

God." Though a good composition, finer 
might be found in his t works. Perhaps the 
comparison with Handel's setting of the same 
words, which could not but occur, might 
make it appear less fine that it really is. 
To this succeeded the air from Solomon, 
" What though I trace," by Mrs. W. Knyvett. 
It was this song, I believe, that first gained 
her reputation. Of course she is partial to 
it, and introduces it on every occasion. There 
appears to me to be a fault in her execution 
of it. She sings it too slow, thereby making 
it tedious. It is a soft, soothing melody, but 
not in the least degree melancholy, which it is 
rendered by her manner. It ought, on the 
contrary, to flow on in a smooth and easy strain, 
expressive of calm contentment. Storace 
sung it excellently at the former celebrations. 
Braham followed with a recitative from Joshua, 
" Tis well," and the martial air and chorus, 
" Glory to God," a spirited composition, 
suited to his voice and style. The next piece 
was from an anthem by Pergolesi, " O Lord, 



278 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

have mercy upon me," a most beautiful solo 
of two movements ; the first highly pathetic ; 
the second, " But my hope hath been in thee," 
cheerful and exhilarating. It was sung by 
Phillips with feeling and expression ; but I 
did not think it well suited to his voice, as 
I had heard it sung by a contralto, which 
appears more appropriate for it than a bass. 
Yet no fault was to be found with his per- 
formance. This was succeeded by a very 
delightful piece of music, a sestetto from 
Haydn's first service. It was an extract from 
the Credo, beginning, as usual, abruptly with 
the words, " Et incarnatus est," and performed 
by Grisi, Ivanhoff, Tamburini, Madame Stock- 
hausen, Miss Clara Novello (a very young 
girl with a clear good voice, the most pro- 
mising of the scholars), and E. Seguin, who 
was of course but little heard in a concerted 
piece of so many voices. This was really 
beautiful, and perfectly well sung ; as was a 
quartette of Himmel, led by Tamburini, or 
rather, a song by him, the other voices being 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 279 

quite subordinate. It has been already men- 
tioned that this excellent singer was the most 
successful of the Italians ; and it may be 
added that the last two pieces were the most 
successful that they sung. The very fine 
chorus of Handel, " From the censer," from 
Solomon, closed the concert of this day, with 
grand effect. On the whole, this pleased me 
best of all the miscellaneous selections. 

The fourth and last concert was the most 
uniformly good, for it consisted solely of 
the Messiah, the chef-d'oeuvre of Handel, 
and most sublime of his works, perhaps of 
every other work of the kind. It would 
be superfluous to speak of one so well known 
and familiar to all lovers of this species of 
music, and I shall not uselessly weary my 
readers by going through it in detail, but 
confine my observations to the principal 
pieces, chiefly as to the distribution of them, 
and their execution by those to whom they 
were allotted. I cannot but think the arrange- 
ment might have been better, and some of 



280 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

the songs put into other hands with great 
advantage to their performance. The error 
complained of before, the little use made of 
the best singers, was more conspicuous on 
this day than on any of the preceding ; 
the five principal only sung once. Brahani 
opened the oratorio most excellently, but 
these were his last notes, he was heard no 
more. Caradori sung well " Rejoice greatly ;" 
but though a brilliant song (and it was her 
only one), it did not show her talents to 
the best advantage. The recitative, " There 
were shepherds," was allotted to Mrs. W. 
Knyvett ; the air "Come unto Him," to 
Madame Stockhausen ; and " I know that my 
Redeemer liveth," to Miss Stephens, but she 
had nothing more. It is difficult to imagine 
why she had so little ; she ought certainly 
to have delivered the recitative above men- 
tioned, as she would have done so with 
greater excellence, though even she might 
have been inferior to Mara, whose distinctness 
of articulation, though a foreigner, surpassed 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 

greatly that of the native who executed it. 
The last song named is much the finest in 
the oratorio, but, though well sung, the effect 
it produced was by no means equal to that 
described by Dr. Burney in the passage 
quoted above, nor was it to be expected ; 
Miss Stephens never had as much expression 
as her great predecessor, nor could excite 
as much feeling in her hearers, but there 
appeared little diminution of her powers 
in this performance. There are in this 
oratorio no less than five songs and several 
recitatives for a bass voice, of which Phillips 
sung two, Bellamy one, and a new singer, 
named Machin, trvo ; but E. Seguin, who 
would have been so useful and effective, was 
not allowed to have any. There are fewer 
for a tenor, but for one of them Sapio might 
advantageously have been employed. There 
being no good counter-tenor, the song " He 
was despised," which is generally given to 
that voice, was assigned to a female contralto, 
a Miss Masson, who sung it correctly, but 



MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

without feeling. As it is within the compass 
of a tenor, Harrison, Knyvett, and others, 
having sung it, Braham might have taken it, 
and would have given it all its deeply pathetic 
expression, which was totally lost. Miss 
Masson having just before sung " He shall 
feed his flock," a simple quiet air, more suited 
to her powers, need not have had this also 
allotted to her. On one of the former occa- 
sions it was executed to perfection by Rubi- 
nelli. Of the other solo parts it is 
unnecessary to speak : the songs of the 
Messiah are generally reckoned inferior to 
the chorusses, and many of them are always 
given to secondary singers. I have often 
lamented that one of them is so, because it 
gives languor and weakness to the close of 
the oratorio, the third part of which is all fine 
with the exception of the song, " If God be 
for us," which is exceedingly long and heavy. 
It signifies little by whom it is performed, but 
perhaps Mrs. W. Knyvett, her voice being 
sweeter, might have given it a better effect 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 288 

than Mrs. Seguin, who sung it. This song 
immediately precedes the magnificent final 
chorus, " Worthy is the Lamb," one of the 
most elaborate and scientific ever composed ; 
too much so perhaps for unscientific hearers. 
The " Hallelujah " is not quite so intricate a 
composition, has more striking and startling 
passages, and is more generally popular. 
Both these unrivalled and inimitable produc- 
tions, and indeed all the other chorusses, 
some of them yielding but little to these in 
grandeur, were extremely well performed ; 
and on this department, on this day, the highest 
praise may be bestowed. 

Thus ended this great Festival, which was 
so impatiently looked forward to, excited such 
great curiosity, and was attended by so many 
thousands. To the present generation it was 
an entire novelty, and the eagerness to go to 
it probably equalled that which was manifested 
half a century ago ; but all who, like myself, 
are old enough to remember the former per- 
formances, decidedly give them the preference 



284 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

over these ; for though the instrumental part 
now was nearly as good as it could be, the 
choral appeared less strong, and in the prin- 
cipal vocal department there certainly was no 
comparison. 

It must, however, be acknowledged to have 
been in many respects a fine performance : 
yet I cannot think it will be remembered or 
handed down to posterity with a reputation at 
all like that of the first, which after the lapse 
of very many years was never named without 
enthusiasm. The recollection of all who had 
been present at those performances brought 
them back so vividly to the imagination as to 
revive the feelings they had excited at the 
time. None could talk of them but with rap- 
ture, and the few survivors do so still. These 
are already spoken of, with a certain degree of 
approbation, it is true, but without any strong 
expressions of surprise or delight. The change 
of taste in music is so general, so total, that 
modern musicians do not now understand the 
ancient style, nor modern audiences appreciate 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 285 

it so highly. That of Handel in particular is 
so much gone out of fashion that it was feared 
the performances would not have been so well 
attended if, as on the former occasion, they 
had consisted of his alone. On this account it 
was that so much of other composers was 
introduced. I cannot think the choice from 
them was always happy ; much was dull, 
much insipid, and except in a very few in- 
stances, there was not any thing to be greatly 
admired, or make a strong impression. If 
even Haydn's chef-d'oauvre, the Creation, 
which is so beautiful in many of its parts, 
failed of making one, nothing else could. But 
all the other composers were overpowered by 
the gigantic strength of Handel, and they 
should have been kept apart. I have my 
doubts whether any foreign church music can 
ever be much relished in the country : it has 
not the solemnity of our own, and I should 
myself have greatly preferred services and 
anthems of our best old English composers, 
and there are many most excellent, to any 



286 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

foreign introduction whatever. They would 
have coalesced so much better with each 
other, and with the great master (if I may 
venture to borrow the title of the gran maestro 
of Italy) that the tout ensemble would have 
been more of a piece, and more uniform sub- 
limity preserved throughout. I say nothing 
of the obviously greater propriety of per- 
forming only Protestant church music in a 
Protestant church, and of the incongruity of 
masses being mixed up with it. Formerly 
such an intermixture would not have been 
permitted ; but the liberality and toleration 
that prevail in the present times, give a lati- 
tude which would not have been extended to 
it then. It may be said that the Italian 
singers could sing nothing but Latin. (How 
well they did sing it has been noticed above.) 
In that case, I for one would willingly have 
dispensed with their services, for in this in- 
stance they were of little value, and they would 
not have been missed ; but the foreigner* 
employed before all sung English. Pacchie- 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 287 

rotti indeed, understood and spoke the lan- 
guage well ; Mara quite like a native. But 
not these only, Rubinelli, David, and others of 
inferior note, Tasca, Bartolini, were all taught 
to pronounce the words with tolerable cor- 
rectness, and went through their parts ex- 
tremely well. The same thing might have 
been done now if it had been worth while to 
take the trouble, which I confess it was not. 
Zuchelli is the only exception. He is half an 
Englishman, and could have performed well in 
English. When he first came back to this 
country, in which he was born and educated, 
Bartleman had lately died, and if he would 
have remained here, he might have succeeded 
him, but he preferred returning to France. 
Now it is said he is gone off", of which I am no 
judge, not having heard him for many years. 
Certain it is that he has been put into the back 
ground at the opera since the arrival of Tam- 
burini, and that on the present occasion he had 
no opportunity afforded him of showing his 
talents to advantage. 



288 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

To bring however these remarks to a con- 
clusion, I do not expect that a repetition of 
this festival will be very eagerly desired; but 
should it ever be renewed, by the correction 
of a few defects, by not a few omissions, by a 
more tasteful selection, and more judicious 
arrangements, it might, under more favourable 
circumstances, be raised to the excellence of 
the former. It is not from the want of talent 
in the country so much as from the misappli- 
cation of it, that this was so inferior ; for the 
musical celebrations at York are spoken of 
with the highest praise, and said to have been 
much more effective. Some who were pre- 
sent, and good judges too, went the length of 
saying, after hearing one of these concerts, 
that they would not go to a second, because 
they had been at York. Though the space 
there was larger, and the band perhaps not so 
large, all agree that it was finer, and its 
strength more powerfully called forth. Ano- 
ther celebration that took place last year at 
Norwich, though on a smaller scale, has also 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 289 

been described as more complete in all its 
parts, and more perfect in its execution. By 
all accounts it seems that both were better 
managed, and gave greater satisfaction. It is 
true Catalan! sung at the former place, Mali- 
bran at the latter, and one such brilliant 
leading voice is an incalculable advantage. 
With such an addition, and the experience 
that has been gained by this first experiment, 
there is no reason why future performances in 
Westminster Abbey should not equal, or 
surpass all imitation and competition. 

There is one other point to which I cannot 
help adverting (though it may give offence in 
some quarters) of higher importance than all 
the rest, in which it is to be hoped the ex- 
ample of the last century will be better followed 
on any future occasion ; and that is the appro- 
priation of the profits derived from the per- 
formances. Then, as now, the Royal Society 
of Musicians, established for the support of 
aged and decayed professors, was considered 
as entitled to the first share in the gains. 



290 MUSICAL FESTIVAL 

When what was deemed a reasonable and 
sufficient proportion had been supplied to 
that fund, a very large sum, amounting to 
many thousands, was divided between St. 
George's and Westminster Hospitals, then 
labouring under distress, from which that 
timely assistance effectually relieved them. 
Those two most useful charitable institutions 
have lately been rebuilt, and still remain 
unfinished, by which their funds must have 
been impoverished, and undoubtedly a similar 
benefaction now would have been most ac- 
ceptable to defray their expenses, and replace 
them on a stable footing. But neither those, 
nor any other hospital or charity whatever 
have been thought fit to participate in the 
very large surplus which it is understood has 
remained after all the expenses are paid, as 
well as the share to the Musical Fund. None 
but musicians are to be benefited by it. 
Other institutions for them, not to be justly 
included under the name of charitable, are to 
have equal portions with that which alone is 



IN WESTMINSTER ABBEY. 291 

legitimately entitled to it; one of them in 
particular of questionable utility, interesting 
only to a few, and of no importance at all to 
the public, besides being extensively patro- 
nized, and sufficiently supported by other 
means. This distribution and these exclu- 
sions are very much to be regretted. Cavils 
were raised and objections started in high 
quarters against this festival as an irreverend 
desecration of the Abbey. The first would 
have been silenced, and the second removed by 
a strict adherence to the former precedent in 
this respect. Not a word could have been 
uttered to their prejudice had these sacred 
performances in a sacred place been devoted, 
as most assuredly they ought, solely to fur- 
thering the interests of charity.* 

* I have been greatly assisted in writing this account 
of the Festival by much useful information received 
from William Ayrton, Esq., who obligingly lent me the 
book of performances in the Abbey in 1784, contain- 
ing also other oratorios sung at the Ancient Music, 
left to him by his father, Dr. Ayrton, who was one of 



292 CONCLUSION. 

Here I close these Reminiscences. It is 
impossible I should ever again have any 
temptation or opportunity to extend them 
farther. Perhaps I have already gone too 
far, and this last part might have been spared. 
But as this festival, coming home more closely, 
as it did, to my old recollections, greatly 
excited my almost extinguished curiosity, and 
revived the last spark of interest I shall ever 
take in music, I could not resist the desire to 
express the effect it had upon me, and my 
opinion as to its result. I may have done so 



the sub-committee at the commemoration, then an 
active, not a nominal post. The book was the more 
valuable from having belonged to Dr. Burney, who had 
made remarks in the margin. Mr. Ayrton also 
favoured me with a sight of the libretti of most of the 
operas produced in the few last seasons, from whence 
I gathered almost all I know. He had made marginal 
notes respecting the music, but not many very lauda- 
tory : as dramas, and as poetry, they are so bad, it is 
impossible to read them. How is the lyric drama 
fallen since the days of M etastasio ! 



CONCLUSION. 293 

too diffusely, and be accused of the garrulity of 
old age, as well as of its unbending prejudices 
in not giving more entire and unqualified 
approbation to the performances. But com- 
parisons could not but arise in my mind 
between these and the original; thinking more 
highly of those that are gone casts no discredit 
on those that exist. I hope, therefore, I shall 
not be condemned as either too lukewarm or 
too severe. I have long been unfortunately 
circumstanced as to music. I cannot like all 
it is the fashion to admire, nor often hear what 
I admire myself. The very few operas I have 
heard of late years have either disappointed, 
wearied, or still worse, sent me away quite 
displeased, and dissatisfied ; so that my indif- 
ference to going to the theatre is now turned 
into repugnance. I have therefore been much 
gratified by once more hearing what had 
given me such pleasure before ; certainly more 
so than by any thing that can be heard else- 
where. 






CONCLUSION. 

In conclusion I must say, as I did in my 
first page so also in my last, first impressions 
are always the most lasting, and mine have 
been indelible. With this excuse I take leave 
of my indulgent readers (if any have followed 
me so far) and finally bid them Farewell. 



THE END. 



/>// F. II. ll'iiil, Richmond, 



UCSB UBtfAWC 



>' m 

. v]^^^^H&v* 















PI 




