HANDBOUND 
AT THE 



UNIVERSITY OF 
TORONTO PRESS 



THE 




MKS. DELANY. 



VOL. I. 








/ 






THE 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY 
AND CORRESPONDENCE 

OF 

MARY GRANVILLE, 

MRS. DELANY : 

WITH INTERESTING REMINISCENCES OF 

KING GEORGE THE THIRD AND' QUEEN CHARLOTTE. 



LADY LLANOVER, 



THREE VOLUMES, 
VOL. I. 




LONDON: 

RICHARD BENTLEY, NEW BURLINGTON STREET, 
tn Ortftnarg 

1862. 



DA 
J. / 



ur w. CLU\\ u> AM> so>s, I>TAMFOIU> siitEjrr. 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 



VOLUME I. 

Georgina Caroline Carteret, Countess Cowper. From 
an original by Sir Godfrey Kneller, see p. 2 - 

View of Delville. From a drawing by Letitia Bushe 

Judith, Countess of Sunderland. From an enamel 
picture by Zincke - 

Mary D'Ewes (Mrs. Port of Ham). From the original 
enamel picture by Zincke - - - - - 



Frontispiece. 
To face page 17 

193 

256 



VOLUME II. 

Ann Granville, Lady Stanley. From the original por- 
trait by Huysman, see p. 105 - - - - 

Mary, Countess of Bute. From an original miniature 
picture --__-,.-- 

Sarah Chapone (Mrs. Sandford). From the original 
portrait by Mrs. Delany - 



Frontispiece, 
To face page 33 



VOLUME III. 

Mary, Lady Jerningham. From the original portrait 
by Opie, see p. 114 ------ 

View of Ham. From a sketch by 

Frances, Baroness de Bunsen - - 

Mrs. Donnellan. From an original enamel by Barber 

Georgina Mary Ann Port. From an original minia- 
ture -------- 

Facsimile of the Honourable Horace Walpole's Inscrip- 
tion for the frame of Mrs. Delany's picture - 

Chromo-lithograph of the Frame of Mrs. Delany's 
picture, designed by the Honourable Horace Walpole 
for the Countess of Bute - - - 



Frontispiece. 

To face page 138 

180 

,, 455 
498 



PART II. VOL. I. 






THE 



LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

OF 

MARY GRANVILLE. 

(MBS. DELANY.) 



CHAPTER XIX. 

FROM THE DEATH OF MRS. DEWES TO THE LAST ILLNESS OF THE 
DEAN OF DOWN. 1761 TO MAY 1768. 

THE first part of the present work concluded with 
the greatest family affliction which Mrs. Delany had 
yet experienced. Her only sister, the depository of her 
joys and sorrows for so many years, was dead. After 
this event the Dean and Mrs. Delany went to her 
brother, Mr. Granville, (at Calwich,) and remained for 
some time with her relations in the country. It is not 
probable that at this period of her deepest grief Mrs. 
Delany wrote often to many persons, or that she kept 
up a regular and frequent correspondence with anybody 
besides the Duchess of Portland ; but by degrees the 
efforts she made for the sake of the Dean were rewarded 
by the recovery of sufficient mental and bodily energy 
to enable her to return to Ireland before Christmas, 1761. 
It appears that she again visited England in a year or 
two afterwards, as she and the Dean were in their house 
PART n. VOL. i. * B 



2 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

in Spring Gardens in 1763, where she had Miss Dewes 
with her, and after seeing her relations and friends in 
London she went back to Ireland, where she once more 
landed in 1763, with the sad renewed consciousness that 
she had no sister to sympathize with her feelings, or to 
watch every turn of the wind with reference to the pro- 
gress of her voyage. The blank was still dreadful, but 
she did not yield to grief, she again resumed her occupa- 
tions and endeavoured to revive her home interests, again 
associated with her neighbours and kept up a correspond- 
ence with her young niece, Mary Dewes, who in Mrs. 
Delany's absence passed a great deal of time with Lady 
Cowper, who during the life of Mrs. Dewes was always 
anxious to have more of her society than her mother 
was willing to spare. Amidst the wide-spread con- 
nections of the Granville family, it may be well to re- 
mind the reader that Lady Cowper was the daughter of 
Earl Granville, and the widow of John Spencer, son 
of Charles, 3rd Earl of Sunderland, grandson of Sarah, 
Duchess of Maryborough, the account of whose marriage 
to Lady Georgina Carteret appears in the first volume of 
this work. Her son by her first marriage was the 1st Earl 
Spencer, who before his elevation to the peerage married 
Miss Poyntz, on which occasion the jealousy of Lady 
Hervey was so much excited by the splendour displayed in 
honour of the event, that she made an ill-natured comment 
upon Mr. Spencer's mother being " a Granville" which 
(according to her interpretation) accounted for the magni- 
ficence of the celebration which had so much excited her 
spleen. Lady Cowper was not only related to Mary 
Dewes, but was also her godmother, and besides these 
ties she had individually been much attached to her from 



* OF MRS. DELANY. I 

the early childhood of the latter. Lady Cowper's letters to 
her goddaughter assist in making out the links in the 
chain of Mrs. Delany's life, as well as to exemplify the 
manners of the time. 

It might naturally be supposed, after an existence of 
sixty-one years, in the early part of which she had 
undergone such severe trials, that if Mrs. Delany's life 
was preserved, her career must be at an end ! but it will 
be found that, although long saddened and depressed, 
her wonderful powers of re-action were not destroyed, 
and that the character which had been exemplary in 
adversity, and engaging, beneficent, yet uncorrupted in 
prosperity, only became more strengthened and refined 
by sorrow ! that patient resignation was succeeded by 
persevering exertion, which was followed by the gradual 
restoration of her powers of enjoyment, although more 
than ever bestowed by the reflection from others of the 
advantages or pleasures conferred by herself. By degrees 
Mrs. Delany added to her correspondents, she often 
wrote to Lord Guilford and to Lady Andover, between 
whom and herself a lasting friendship was maintained, 
but her natural elasticity of spirit did not recover its 
former level for many years after Mrs. Dewes's death, 
and the advancing age and increasing infirmities of the 
Dean were in themselves a sufficient reason for care, 
without other causes of anxiety which will be apparent 
in the letters of the next seven years. 



B 2 



LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Miss Kynnersley to Miss Dewes. 
MY DEAR MlSS DEWES, Loxley, 1 Aug. 19th, 1761. 

Could I by writing have anyways alleviated your 
grief, you should much sooner have heard from me. I 
truly sympathize with you, but you was certainly pre- 
pared for the event. Mrs. Dewes's long illness and your 
constant apprehensions of her danger must have made 
her dissolution no more than you could expect. Our 
mortal frames cannot subsist under such long and violent 
attacks ; but I ought not to bring afresh to your mind 
these melancholy thoughts, to avoid which has been the 
chief cause of my silence, therefore with my best wishes 
for your happiness in every other respect, I will now drop 
the subject. 

I left London a day or two after I saw you, since which 
I have been a great rambler, I spent a month at Bath, 
during which time I made two excursions to Bristol, at 
which place I was at three balls. A good deal of 
company but no crowd ; it was not so full as T have 
heard it has been since. Bath was not in season, so 
what company there was were invalids and inhabitants. 
From these places we spent a few days at Mr. Dehany's 
country-house in Berkshire, and set out again and went 
to Salisbury races, which was a very agreeable meeting. 
We had two nights' dancing, and was very merry. We 
returned back into the country, where in about a week I 
left them and came to town the day before we set out 



1 Loxley Park, in Staffordshire, the residence of Sneyd Kynnersley, Esq. 
Thomas Kynnersley, of Loxley, Esq., an officer in the navy, married Penelope, 
only daughter of John Wheeler, of Wootton, Esq. Mr. Kynnersley died in 
1755, and was succeeded by his son, Clement Kynnersley, who dying without 
issue, in 1815, left the property to his nephew. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 5 

for this part of the world, where we have now been near 
a fortnight. Though it is only two years since we left it 
we are looked upon as something new, and all our 
neighbours are so kind in their visits that we have had 
but little time to ourselves as yet. All last Saturday 
the bells were ringing at Bram shall for Lord Wil- 
loughbyV birthday the estate will be his at the 
Dowager Lady Willoughby 's death, I hear his lordship 
is soon to wed Lady Louisa North. 2 I fancy she will 
make you a very good neighbour. Mamma and sister 
beg to join me in compliments to your papa, brothers, 
and self. 

Your affectionate and obliged humble servant, 

P. KlNNERSLEY. 



The Countess Cowper to Miss Dewes. 
MY DEAR MlSS DEWES, Colegreen, Aug. 20th, 1761. 

Though I don't know where to direct to you I 
cannot forbear inquiring after you, I will direct this to 
Welsbourn, and if you should not be there I conclude 
somebody will forward it to you. I hope to hear you 
have recovered your health ; you should now endeavour 
to keep up your father's spirits, and make yourself as 
useful to him as you possibly can- Are the Dean and 
Mrs. Delany yet gone into Ireland? I am going to 
town for the Eoyal wedding, 3 and then shall return here 
and stay till within a few days of the Coronation. Lady 

1 John Peyto, 6th Baron Willoughby de Broke, was born in August, 1738. 

2 Lady Louisa North, daughter of Francis, 1st Earl of Guilford, married 
John Peyto, 6th Baron Willoughby de Broke, 8th Oct., 1761. 

3 The marriage of George III. and Queen Charlotte took place on the 8th 
September, 1761. 



6 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Harriet Bentinck is to be one of the bride maids to the 
Queen. 

Lady Weymouth 1 will be too near her time to walk at 
the Coronation, 2 which I conclude is a mortification to her. 
Let me hear from you as soon as you receive this, for 
I am unalterably, dear Miss Dewes, 

Yours affectionately, 

G. C. COWPER. 



Tfte Earl of (htilford> to Mrs. Delany. 
MADAM Chesterton, Dec. 5th, 1761. 

Nothing can be more flattering, than the kind re- 
membrance, and good wishes to me and my family ex- 
pressed in your very obliging congratulation on my 
daughter's marriage, for which I must beg you to accept 
my most grateful acknowledgments. 

It is indeed a very happy event, and furnishes a most 
pleasing prospect. Lady Guilford and I are now 
making a visit at Chesterton, and find reason to be better 
satisfied, if possible, every hour. 

Such a husband as Lord Willoughby, is a great prize 
in a lottery where there are many blanks, and I flatter 
myself my daughter's conduct will shew she is very 
sensible of its value. I have obeyed your obliging com- 
mands by delivering the letter to her. 



1 Charlotte, second daughter of the Viscountess Weymouth (afterwards 
Marchioness of Bath), was born Nov. 7, 1761. She died May 19, 17(J4. 
Lady Weymouth was one of Queen Charlotte's Ladiea of the Bedchamber on 
the first establishment of her household. 

2 The Coronation of George III. took place on Tuesday, 22nd September, 
1761. 

3 Francis, 1st Earl of Guilford. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 7 

Lady Guilford charges me with compliments and 
thanks to you, which we beg the favour of you to present 
also from us both to the Dean of Down. 

You may be assured, Madam, I most sincerely interest 
myself in whatever regards you, and wish a perfect re- 
covery of your health and spirits. 

What you say of the applause my Lord Halifax 1 meets 
with, and the good disposition of the people of Ireland 
towards him, gives me infinite satisfaction ; I hope the 
same favourable sentiments will continue, as I am satis- 
fied there never was a Lord Lieutenant more able, or 
more determined to make his administration advanta- 
geous, as well as agreeable, to the nation. 

I am extremely well pleased to hear of the good cor- 
respondence that seems to be established between you 
and the ladies at the Castle ; as I am convinced it will 
greatly contribute to the satisfaction of all parties. If 
my name should be mentioned, I will beg leave to 
trouble you with my compliments to them. I desire to 
be believed with a sincere esteem and regard, 
Madam, your most obedient, 

And obliged humble servant, 

GUILFORD. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 
(Part of a letter without date, but written 1762.) 

Our governor 2 leaves us on Monday or Tuesday at 
farthest. Mrs. Osborn rejoices, the young ladies mourn, 

1 George Montagu,- 2nd Earl of Halifax, was appointed Lord-Lieutenant of 
Ireland, 21st March, 1761. 

2 Lord Halifax ceased to be Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland May 3, 1762, which 
proves this letter to have been written at Delville, 1762. 



8 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

for they are so very young as to think a round of hurry- 
ing pleasures is liappiness ; not considering what a loss 
of time it is to devote all their hours to amusements, 
that can leave no solid pleasure behind, wear their con- 
stitution out by bad hours, and prevent all occupations 
that enlarge the mind and lay in a store of good and 
entertaining reflections for the autumn and winter of 
life ; a moderate participation in rational entertain- 
ments is necessary, I may say, to relieve the mind, but 
they should be no more the principal attention of our 
minds, than sweetmeats should be our sole food. I don't 
mean any reflection upon the Lady M 's, for their 
station here has required them to lead the life they have 
done, and they have acquitted themselves with a great 
deal of civility and good humour, but I only condemn 
the choice of spending every day in a public place, tho' I 
don't fear this disposition in you, my dear child, because 
you have early had great advantages, and the good seed 
that has been sown will spring up, and you will reap the 
advantage of it ; reading and thinking requires leisure, 
and without it the mind will be dissipated, and always 
trifling. Has my brother read Fingal the Erse poetry ? 
and how do you both like it ? it is melancholy, but I 
think very pretty. We have lately read again Pliny's 
letters translated by Melmouth, they are very pleasing 
letters. My letter is called for and so am I. 

Adieu, my dearest Mary, M.D. 



Miss Dewes to her brother, the Rev. J. Dewes. 

Thursday night, 1763. 

Many thanks to you, dear brother, for the favour of 



OF MES. DELANY. 9 

your letter. You say in it that you think I manage my 
time very well, to go out so much and yet keep up a 
correspondence ; I assure you if both were not practi- 
cable I would give up the former, for I think no pleasure 
in this world can equal that of hearing from and writing 
to one's friends. I have not been out but once since 
Monday, but I will begin my journal at last Monday 
was sevemiight, which day Aunt Delany spent at 
Whitehall. In the afternoon I went to Mrs. Kynners- 
ley's ; Tuesday the Duchess of Portland, Lady Chester- 
field, and Lady Betty Egerton came here ; Wednesday 
we went to Lady Gilfords, 1 Lady Hill, Miss Gore, Lady 
Grandison, and to Mrs. Brudenell 2 (Lord Dartmouth's 
sister) ; we found all out except the latter, where we 
went by appointment. There was there Lord and Lady 
Gilford, Lord and Lady North, 3 Lord and Lady Wil- 
loughby, Lady Cecil Rice, 4 Mrs. Montague and her son, 
and Mrs. Southwell and her son, Mr. and Mrs. Yernon, 
and a great many more which I do not recollect ; Thurs- 
day Lady Cowper dined her ; Friday the Duchess of 
Portland, Lady Chesterfield, and Lady Betty Egerton 

1 Lady Gilford. Theodosia, only daughter of Robert Hawkins Magill, Esq., 
and of Lady Anne Magill, married, 29th Aug., 1765, Sir John Meade, who 
was created Baron Gilford and Viscount Clanwilliam in 1766, and Earl of 
Clanwilliam 20th July, 1776. 

2 Mrs. Brudenell. Anne, eldest daughter of George, Viscount Lewisham, 
and sister of William, Earl of Dartmotith, married, 23rd Nov. 1760, the Hon. 
James Brudenell, second son of George, 3rd Earl of Cardigan. On the death 
of his eldest brother, in 1790, Mr. Brudenell succeeded to the Earldom. 

3 Frederic, Lord North, the well-known Prime Minister. He married, 20th 
May, 1756, Anne, daughter and heir of George Speke, Esq. 

4 Lady Cecil Rice was the only daughter of William Talbot, 1st Earl 
Talbot, who, having no surviving male issue, was created, in October, 1780, 
Baron Dynevor, with remainder to his daughter, Lady Cecil, who had married, 
16th August, 1756, George Rice, of Newton, Esq. 



10 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

came here ; Saturday Lady Hill, 1 and Miss Hill, and 
Miss Howard 2 (Lady Andover's daughter) came here ; 
Sunday we went by appointment to Mrs. Montague to 
meet Lord and Lady Willoughby, and Mrs. Brudenell, 
and Miss Legg, we also went to Lady Hide, Lady Betty 
Egerton's, and Mrs. Vesey, but found all out except the 
latter. Monday we dined at Lord Dartmouth's, and in 
the afternoon we went to Lady Andover, Lady Lucy 
Boyle, 3 Lady Frances, 4 and Lady Betty Montague 5 (Lord 
Halifax's daughters), Mrs. Grranville, and the Duchess 
of Dorset ; 6 Tuesday Aunt Delany went in the morning 
to the Duchess of Portland ; in the afternoon she came 
here. Yesterday in the morning we went to Chelsea to 
the Bishop of Winchester's ; 7 in the afternoon Aunt 
Delany and I went and sat the afternoon with my Uncle 
Granville at his house in Hollis Street ; he came to 
town in the morning, and is now here, and desires his 
compliments to you and my brother Court. As to your 



1 Mary, second wife of Sir Rowland Hill, and daughter of Mr. Pole, of Rad- 
bourne, Co. Derby. 

2 The Hon. Frances Howard, only daughter of William, Lord Andover, 
and sister of Henry, 12th Earl of Suffolk. She married Richard Bagot, Esq. 
(brother of the 1st Lord Bagot), who assumed, by sign-manual, the surname 
of Howard. Their only child and heiress was Mary, the present Hon. Mrs. 
Greville Howard (1861). 

3 Lady Lucy Boyle, only daughter of John, 5th Earl of Cork and Orrery, 
married, in 1765, George, 4th Viscount Torrington. 

4 Lady Frances Montague, second daughter of George, 2nd Earl of Halifax, 
died unmarried in 1764. 

5 Lady Elizabeth Montague, third daughter of George, 2nd Earl of Halifax, 
married, in 1776, John, 5th Earl of Sandwich. 

Lionel, 1st Duke of Dorset, died 10th Oct., 1763. His wife was Elizabeth, 
daughter of Lieut.-General Walter Philip Colyear. His son, Charles, 2nd 
Duke of Dorset, married, 1744, Grace, daughter and heir of Richard Boyle, 
Viscount Shannon. 

7 Dr. John Thomas, Bishop of Winchester. 



OF MES. DELANY. 11 

flute, I think myself much obliged to you for employing 
me in anything that can amuse you, for that must 
certainly give me great pleasure ; I will endeavour to 
get one chose for you and to send it as soon as I can 
hear of a safe hand ; if you know any good way I can 
convey it to you let me know, and I will certainly send 
it as soon as I can get a proper person to choose it for 
me ; but as I do not at present learn to play upon the 
clavicord I do not know justly who to get to choose one, 
and I am not any judge myself, but you may depend 
upon my doing the best I can. I desire my love to 
my brother, and hope I shall hear from him soon. I 
have seen your tutor Mr. Smallwell, he was to wait on 
Aunt Delany ; I think he seems a very good sort of 
man ; I heard him preach also at Whitehall Chapel. 
Pray, how do you like him ? My brother Bunny desires 
his love to you and my brother, as does Mrs. Delany, Miss 
Chapone, and the Dean. I can add no more at present 
than that I am, with the truest love, my dear brother's 
Most affectionate sister and 

Humble servant, 

MARY DEWES. 

P.S. Pray let me hear from you soon. If you have not 
a frank do not mind that. Yesterday morning Lord 
Willoughby and Mr. Mordaunt were here, they inquired 
after you and my brother. Brother Court can give you 
a better account of Mr. Kay than I can. 

The month being omitted in the date of the above letter, it 
can only be guessed to have been April or May, ] 763, before 
the Dean and Mrs. Delany returned to Ireland, when Mrs. 



12 LIFE AND CORBESPONDENCE 

Delany, with her undeviating good sense and mental energy, 
determined to increase her interest in life and in her beloved 
sister's child by going out with her as often as she could at her 
first entrance into the world. 



The following letter may be interesting, at the present time, 
from the remarkable similarity, in some of the comments, to 
what has been said recently with regard to religious differences, 
although nearly one hundred years have elapsed since it was 
written. 

The llev. W. Jones to the Dean of Down. 
DEAR SlR, Wadenho, Jan. 29, 1763. 

Before I received your letter (which came by the 
return of my messenger) I had thought it absolutely 
necessary to pack up so much of the fair transcript as 
was finished, and send it to my friend in town without 
any further delay. On Wednesday evening next, there- 
fore, or on Thursday morning, you will receive the copy 
of ten chapters, which are these following 1st, 2nd, 
4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 1 1th, the 3rd 
and 12th chapters, with the additional papers, shall be 
sent by the next return, whether they are entirely 
finished or not. As to the additional discourse on the 
Sabbath the preface and what you design (I think 
very properly) as an introduction, they are all so fair and 
correct, and will gain so little by the transcript, that I 
shall not be so solicitous in regard to them as to the 
body of the work, which you will have throughout in 
the same hand. 

The preface appears to me very proper and seasonable ; 
the men you give warning against are the declared 
enemies of all true religion, and of everything that 



OF MRS. DEL ANY. 13 

opposes their own infidel and unlettered prejudices. The 
principal objects of their malice are the doctrine of the 
Trinity and the establishment of the Episcopal Church 
in England. If any writer dares to make his appearance 
as an advocate of either, his person is immediately 
bespattered with the grossest abuse ; his work mangled 
and misrepresented to the public before they become 
acquainted with the thing itself, and generally, I believe, 
before these critics themselves have regularly perused it. 
If I mistake not the date of their plan, it was contrived 
as a succedaneum to a book called the Candid Disquisi- 
tions : which being found insufficient to overthrow the 
Creeds and the Liturgy, up started these reviews to carry 
on that design by open scandal and misrepresentation, 
which the authors could not accomplish by their spe- 
cious cant and artful insinuations. We may apply to 
them what Cicero says of certain atheistical philosophers 
horum enim sententia? omnium, non modo supersti- 
tionem tollunt, in qua inest timor inanis deorum, sed 
etiam religionem quse deorum cultu pio continetur. 1 

Our best compliments attend yourself and your lady ; 
and I beg you will believe me to be, with all sincerity, 
Dear Sir, your most obliged 

And very obedient, 

W. JONES. 2 



1 Cic. Nat. Deor., lib. 1. 

2 The Rev. William Jones, born 1726, educated at the Charter House and 
University Coll., Oxford. Became curate of Finedon, Northamptonshire, 
and next of Wadenho, where he wrote the " Catholic Doctrine of the Trinity." 
In 1764 the Archbishop of Canterbury gave him the vicarage of Bethersdeu, 
in Kent, to which was afterwards added the rectory of Pluckley ; at the time 
of his death he was perpetual curate of Nayland and rector of Fasten and 
Holingbourne. His theological and philosophical works form 12 vols. 8vo. 



14 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



Miss Dewes to the Rev. J. Dewes. 

London, March IGth, 1763. 

I should not have been so long without writing to my 
dear brother, but staid till I had executed your commis- 
sion, 1 which I now have done, and hope it will prove to 
your liking. The person that chose it said he thought 
it a very good one it is a famous maker. I mentioned 
your chusing it to be tipped with ivory, but the judges 
said it would only make it come to a higher price, and 
not make the flute the better at all, but rather other- 
wise. Last Tuesday was sevennight I was at an assembly 
at Lady Hillborough's ; Wednesday I was at the Oratorio ; 
Thursday Mrs. D., Mr. G., and Miss Chapone, and my 
brother, went to the play. I was to have gone, but the 
Duchess of Queensberry sent me a ticket to go to a ball 
in Soho Square, and I went with my Lady Cowper. It 
is a very fine room. The Duke of York was there, and 
he began the ball ; I danced but two dances ; it was so 
hot ; there was not any minuets. The French horn, 
fiddle, and other instruments, played till the ball began, 
which was about nine. Friday we drank tea at Lady 
Hill's ; Saturday, Sunday, we staid at home ; Monday we 
went to an assembly at Lady Guilford's ; and yesterday 
Lady Anne Jekyls and Mrs. Montague dined here. 
My uncle desires his compliments to you, and my 
brother, as does the Dean, Mrs. Delany, and Miss 
Chapone. I know your way of living at Oxford must 
require a little prudence to make matters do, and I do 
not doubt your managing as well as you can. There is 



1 " Commission " to procure a flute. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 15 

no situation in life that does not require some man- 
agement, and if people do not keep an exact account of 
their expenses, they will want money, and be as easily 
ruined with a thousand pound a year as with thirty ! 

Mr. John Mordaunt is come to town, and is going to 
live with his brother at Islington. Do you go to 
Welsbourn when my brother Court does ? You are 
very good in writing upon folio paper. 

M. DEWES. 



The Countess Cowper to Miss Dewes. 
MY DEAR MlSS DEWES, Colegreen, May 10th, 1763. 

I give you many thanks for your obliging in- 
quiry after me. My cold still hangs upon me. I never 
had one that lasted so long, and the weather is too cold 
to get rid of it. 

The country looks green, but the leaves are not all out 
yet. I found my Lord better than!I expected, and flatter 
myself he is going on in a better way than he has been 
for some months past. I have wept over poor Lady 
Molesworth 1 and her children. What a dreadful catas- 
trophe ? I did not visit her, but knew her and her 
eldest daughter very well by sight. 'Tis really too 
shocking ! I shall be more afraid of fire than ever. I 
wonder it does not happen every night in London. 

I conclude you will soon go out of town. I wish you 
a pleasant summer, though you will have one bitter 
draught to swallow the parting with Mrs. Delany ! I 

1 Mary, widow of Richard, 3rd Viscount Molesworth, with t\vo of her 
daughters, Melusina and Mary, were burnt to death at their house in London, 
6th May, 1763. 



16 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

beg my best compliments to her and the Dean, not for- 
getting Miss Chapone and your brothers. Be assured, 
my dear Miss Dewes, that I am ever unalterably yours, 

Gr. C. COWPER. 

Puff returns your civility. She is at present much 
affronted at my having taken notice of a kitten my Lord 
has in his room. 



The following letter from Mrs. Delany, at Delville, proves 
that " the parting " alluded to by Lady Cowper, was on the occa- 
sion of Mrs. Delany's return to Ireland, which appears to have 
been her second visit there after her sister's death. 

The death of Lady Molesworth and her daughters, were only 
three out of the ten lives sacrificed by one of the most dreadful 
fires recorded in the last century. The fire occurred in Lady 
Molesworth's house in Upper Brook Street, Grosvenor Square, 
which was entirely consumed, with all the furniture. Captain 
Usher, the brother of Lady Molesworth, and four or five servants 
perished in the flames, besides herself and her second and third 
daughters. 

Lady Molesworth threw down a feather-bed as soon as she dis- 
covered the danger, and insisted on her eldest daughter of eighteen 
throwing herself upon it out of the window, calmly assisting her 
in so doing ; after which she was observed, by a person in an 
opposite window, to sink down at once as if suffocated by the 
smoke of the room. The young lady broke her leg. Dr. Coote 
Molesworth and his wife were on a visit to Lady Molesworth, 
and the latter, after being much scorched, threw herself from a 
two pair of stairs window into the garden and was dreadfully 
bruised. Dr. Molesworth hung by his hands till a ladder was 
brought to him ; Lord Molesworth, then thirteen years of age 
(the only son), had been sent back to school the night before to 
make room for the visitors. Lady Molesworth's fourth and fifth 



OF MRS. DELANY. 17 

daughters jumped out of a garret window ; the first broke her 
thigh, and the latter was terribly bruised. The governess threw 
herself out of the nursery window and was killed on the spot. 
One of the footmen jumped out of a two pair of stairs window, 
fell upon the iron spikes, and died in two or three days. 
The King (George III.), as soon as he heard of this misfortune, 
sent the three Miss Molesworths who survived a liberal present, 
ordered a house to be taken and furnished for them at his own 
expense, and making an addition to the pension which their 
mother had formerly enjoyed, settled it upon them. 



Mrs. Delany to her brother, Bernard OranviUe, Esq., 
at Calwich. 

Delville, June 20, 1763. 

I should have written last post to have told my dear 
brother we all continued well after our late fatigues, but 
the hurry of unpacking, and the kind welcomes of our 
friends here, would not allow me a quarter of an hour to 
write. I snatch an early hour to-day (seven o'clock} to 
make you a visit, and hope you continue to find your 
good effects of the Bath, and will have no occasion to try 
foreign baths ; but should you have any return, or find 
the weakness of your wrist continue, hope you will break 
from the charms of Calwich and take the best care you 
can of your health. 

The Dean has been much revived by the enjoyment of 
his favourite Delville, which indeed looks very pretty and 
smells very sweet. Hay is making under my closet 
window in the lawn, and some improvements have been 
made that answer very well. I thank Grod I am very 
well, but not quite as ready a walker, except on plain 
ground ; however, I can creep round my garden, resting 
between whiles, and I gather strength every day. I have 

PART n. VOL. i. c 



18 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

seen all the Hamiltons and Forths, and find them pretty 
well. I am very happy in having Mrs. H. Hamilton a 
mile nearer than when I left Ireland. Miss Chapone is 
still low and weak, but I hope a little quiet will recover 
her. I believe I told you Mr. Sandford luckily met the 
Archbishop of Tuam at Park Gate, and was instituted or 
collated (I don't know the proper term) in due form, and 
yesterday took the oaths goes in a few days to see his 
glebe and house, and to attend the visitation. 

Lady Anne Jekyll 1 has two geese ready whenever she 
knows how to send them to you not young ones, as she 
finds they won't do. 

The mention of Miss Chapone proves that Mrs. Delany still 
continued her regard for her, as well as her active interest 
about Mr. Sandford, but the deadened tone which pervades the 
present letter is a great contrast to her former style, and shows 
that two years had not restored her spirits, though nothing 
could destroy her resigned submission to the loss of her sister. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

I make no doubt of your employing your time well, 
and like the provident ant, that you will work in the 
spring and summer of your life for your support in the 
winter. You cannot have too many innocent amuse- 
ments, provided you do not neglect what is essential to 
learn; and indeed an ingenious mind will always find 
most entertainment from those employments that improve 
it. All human creatures have a natural inclination to 
knowledge, which is generally called curiosity, and if 

1 Lady Ann Jekyll, daughter of George Montague, 1st Earl of Halifax, and 
wife of Joseph Jekyll, Esq. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 19 

rightly directed it will be the means of great improve- 
ment to yourself, and make you agreeable and amiable to 
all your acquaintance. If it turns to mere frivolous 
curiosity it will lead you astray, and instead of finding 
you are in the midst of roses and every desirable fruit and 
flower, you will be entangled amongst briars and nettles, 
and all sorts of noxious weeds. You will think I am 
pretending to write a " Spectator " or an " Adventurer." 
No but I hope you make them very much your study, 
as you will find there what I mean much better expressed. 
For studies of still more consequence I think you cannot 
neglect what you were so early trained to ; and I hope 
an opportunity may happen of our meeting before the 
year expires, and then some essential points must be 
settled, which I am sure you must be very desirous 
should, though it has not yet come in your way. Our 
business in this world, my dear, is preparing for another ; 
and in order to make that exchange a happy one we 
must act up to the name we have taken upon us of 
Christianity. The rules are plain and easy, if indolence 
or luxury do not interfere and blind us. And a habit of 
doing our duty regularly is the best guard against the 
evils and temptations that beset us, and by accustoming 
ourselves to that regularity we shall find no manner of 
difficulty, but rather be uneasy at any omission. This 
is a long sermon, but you flatter me in saying you like 
to receive any advice from your friends, and are sensible 
that it can only proceed from true affection. 

We found our cottage 1 clean and the garden very sweet, 



1 This phrase, " our cottage," seems to indicate that the Dean and Mrs. 
Delany were not in their former residence in the Deanery of Down, where this 
letter was evidently written. 

c2 



20 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

I have brought variety of works, and Sally and I 
saunter abroad a good deal in the cool part of the day, 
bring home handfuls of wild plants and search for their 
names and virtues in Hill but he is not half so in- 
telligible as old Gerard. 

Next Tuesday our public days begin, which I hope 
will leave us free from interruption the rest of the week. 
I find by a letter from your father that he has had the 
epidemical disorder, which I suppose delayed his being 
as soon at Calwich as he designed very likely you are 
all together now. I have the satisfaction to hear Bunny 
is very diligent and behaves himself extremely well he 
is very good in writing often to me. You are all very 
good to me and shall always find me, 

Your most affectionate aunt, 

And humble servant, 

M. DELANY. 

I will answer my dear brother Granville's kind 
addition to your letter the next turn of writing. I shall 
keep to Saturdays. 

All our kind compliments salute you all. Have you 
got your white lute-string ? Anne Dawson has got the 
things that are for you from Mr. Le Grand. 



Mrs. Delany to her brother, Bernard Granvitte, Es<j., 
at Calwich. 

Mount Panther, 29th Aug., 1763. 

I hope you had a good day for Dovedale, and that it 
was not attended by any kind of disappointment. Our 
weather has been so excessive bad that we have not had 
two days together without rain. It has broken into all 



OF MRS. DELANY. 21 

our little schemes of pleasure, and made us prisoners to 
a very bad house. We have amused ourselves with work 
and books, and are now not sorry to leave it, and propose 
setting out to-morrow morning, and hope to be at 
Delville by dinner on Thursday. Miss Chapone has, I 
think, found great benefit from sea-bathing and riding. 
Mr. Sandford has been very well till to-day that he 
has an attack of his old disorder, but Delville will set us 
all to rights. 1 was much disappointed when I was at 
Castleward 1 at the weather's being so bad, for it is so 
fine a situation that I wished much to take some views. 
Mr. Ward is building a fine house, but the scene about it 
is so uncommonly fine it is a pity it should not be judi- 
ciously laid out. He wants taste, and Lady Anne Ward 
is so whimsical that I doubt her judgment. If they do 
not do too much they cant spoil the place, for it hath 
every advantage from Nature that can be desired. 

Kind wishes from hence attend my dear brother. 
Adieu. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Delville, 16th Nov., 1763. 

My dearest Mary, I have broken my word, which is 
what I would never willingly do. I promised to send 
enclosed in your stuff the pattern of the x stitch, but 
before I could work it out I had an opportunity of 
sending the stuff, which I would not lose. 

I am very glad to find that the method you have pur- 
sued for your health has been so successful, and hope your 



1 Castle Ward, Strangford, Co. Down, the present residence of Viscount 
Bangor. 



22 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

agreeable scheme for Chesterton will be quite pleasant to 
you. I desire you will never fail to make my compliments 
in a particular manner to Lord and Lady Willoughby. 
The year now is so far advanced, and the weather so bad, 
that I suppose a visit to Calwich will be impracticable 
till Mr. Gr. returns from Bath. I cannot but lament the 
many lonely weeks he has spent without one visit from 
those that are nearest and dearest to him. I hope you 
will lay in for making him a visit when he returns from 
Bath ; he cannot otherwise but take it very unkindly, 
and your obligations are too great to him (without 
farther consideration) not to show him your earnest 
desire of paying him every mark of love and regard. 
I know you cannot determine anything of this kind 
for yourself, but I make no doubt but your father will 
be ready to comply with everything that can testify 
your gratitude to such an uncle. 1 You have had an 
account of our wedding, and the visit Mrs. Preston 2 made 
us when she brought Miss Chapone home. She is re- 
turned to Swainston and stays there till Christmas. I 
made your congratulatory compliments, and she desired 
me to return her best compliments and thanks. What 
an ll etourdy " have I been, and have written my letter so 
awkwardly, the pages are all confusion. I think your judg- 
/ ment very right of "Lady Julia" &c. I was so much pleased 
with the beginning of it, that the conclusion quite pro- 
voked me, for I think it spoils the whole. You are raised 
to the highest admiration of the hero of the piece, who is 
made worthy and amiable, and then ends his life like a 



1 Mr. Granville was very much attached to his niece, Mary Dewes. 
3 Mary, youngest daughter of the Hon. Henry Hamilton, married, in 1763, 
the Rev. Nathaniel Preston, of Swainston, county Meath. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 23 

% 

Lovelace, and not one moral to be drawn from the rash 
and sad catastrophe ! How differently has Mr. Eichardson 
done by his good characters. Every suffering and calamity 
they endure, are the means of making them noble ex- 
amples of Christianity, which is not so much as hinted at / 
by the author of Lady J. Mandeville. 1 We are now_ 
reading again Mr. Addison's 2 Travels in Italy. I recom- 
mend them to you ; they are concise, clear, informing, 
and written in a very agreeable style. If your father has 
them not, I believe you can borrow them of Sir Charles 
Mordaunt. You say nothing of your clavicord. I hope 
you keep up at least the lessons you have learned. 3 I 
cannot yet find out how to instruct you about the net 
edging, nor can I find Lady Weymouth's, when I do, 
and have a frank, I will send it to you. Pray make all 
our best compliments to Miss Kinnersley, she can inform 
you better than anybody. Your writing-master found 
his father recovered. He says it is more in your own 
power than any masters to write a good hand by a resolu- 
tion never to scrawl I but good English and exact spelling 
will make amends for a bad hand, and that I am sure 
you will be particularly careful of, as I find you improve 
in both kinds. 

Love and service from hence. Adieu. 



1 " Lady Julia Mandeville," a fashionable novel of the day, written by 
Mrs. Brooks. 

2 "Kemarks on several parts of Italy in the years 1701-2-3," by Addison. 

3 " / hope you keep up at least the lessons you have learned." Miss Deweg 
was said to have played to perfection all the music which she learned 'under 
the superintendence of Mrs. Delany and of her uncle, Mr. Granville, of whose 
opinion she was in great awe, who was one of the best judges of music of the 
day, and who himself played on the organ and clavicord. 




24 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



Mrs. Delany to Bernard Qranville, Esq. 

Delville, 14th April, 1764. 

If you put your design into execution of leaving Bath, 
I suppose this letter will salute you in Holies-street, and 
I hope find you, my dear brother, very well. I rejoice 
for the pleasure my nephews will have in seeing you, 
I wish my poor Mary could have her share. 

You will also, I suppose, see Miss Viney, who has 
gone to London with her two friends, full of spirits. 
Her letter, which informed us of Mrs. Vernon's death, 
was written in such a manner as to leave no doubt of 
Miss Chapone being greatly benefited by it, but thou- 
sands have fallen to hundreds, which, though very ac- 
ceptable, one must feel some sort of disappointment when 
expectation had been raised so high. Mr. Yernon, the 
executor, is now in London, and till we hear from him, 
we are still in the dark as to the sum. A terrible riot 
in the playhouse last Friday, several people killed. I 
suppose you will see the Duchess of Portland, but I fear 
she has not been well, though she said in her last letter 
she has recovered of a bad cold. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dtvxs. 

Delville, 12th May, 1764. 

My last letter ended abruptly, my dearest Mary, and 
I fully intended writing to you last post, but could not, 
as you may imagine when I give you a sketch of the 
week past. We went to Mr. Preston's (Swainston) last 
Monday, got there by three, had the pleasure of finding 



OF MRS. DELANY. 25 

Mrs. Preston as well as any one can be in her condition, 
agreeable and kind. I had not the pleasure of finding 
Miss Chapone well at all, and I think not better for her 
excursion. 

Tuesday, after dinner, Mrs. P., Sally and I (the gen- 
tlemen were lazy), went to Summer Hill, a place so 
called in that neighbourhood, belonging to a Mr. Roily. 
It is called fine, and in some respects it is so, the situa- 
tion good. The house large, but not pleasant, and there 
are a good many trees, a fine lawn before the house, and 
a pretty wood behind the house, with winding walks, 
rustic seats, ending in a very pretty menagerie well 
stored with pheasants. It was late when we got home, 
.Next day spent in walking about Swainston, and con- 
triving works, and hanging a room with Indian paper, 
which Mrs. Preston is eager about. The weather too 
bad all Thursday for going abroad, so occupations at 
home went on, and yesterday we came away, and though 
sorry to leave our agreeable friend, were not displeased to 
return to our own Delville that is now in the bloom of 
beauty. I think the jaunt has done D.D. good. I must 
go this morning to town to take leave of the Castle 
grandees, and in the afternoon am invited to a private 
music at Mr. Bayley's. 



Mrs. Ddarty to Miss Dewes. 

Delville, 6th Oct., 1764. 

According to my promise I shall give my dearest niece 
an account of our wedding, which I am sure will be a 
satisfaction to all our kind friends, now assembled at 



26 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Calwich. It has been currently reported for some time that 
Dr. Sandford and Miss Chapone were privately married 
some months ago, a report which, if it reached the old 
gentleman's ears, might have been of bad consequence 
as it must then have been before his consent had been 
obtained ; for which reason the Dean thought it best the 
marriage should not be in a very private way, and we 
prevailed on Mrs. Sandford to admit some of her friends. 
The Dean of Down desired he might be her father and 
give her away. Mr. Gustavus Hamilton performed the 
office. Mrs. Preston could not be here, Mr. Preston 
was, and Mrs. Gustavus Hamilton, Miss Hamilton, (Mrs. 
Preston's sister,) and Mr. T. Hamilton's sister were bride 
maids, Mr. Sackville Hamilton and his brother (tha 
lieutenant) bridemen. 1 This was our company. All 
met here at eleven ; the sun shone bright, and we pro- 
ceeded in order through the garden to church ; when we 
returned, breakfast was prepared in the drawing room, 
every countenance cheerful. The Dean gave Dr. Sandford 
a pair of gold buttons in the morning before he went to 
church with these lines. 

I'm an emblem of marriage, of two I make one, 
Both useful together, hoth useless alone. 
Then may yours, like to mine, for ever remain 
A polished, a precious, and permanent chain ! 

When breakfast was over the company dispersed for a 
little while, some to different rooms, some to the garden, 
and breakfast things removed, all met again and music 



1 The sons of the Hon. Henry Hamilton and Mrs. Delany's "My Mrs. 
Hamilton" were 1, The Rev. Gustavus Hamilton ; 2, Joshua ; 3, Sackville, 
Secretary of State for Ireland ; 4, Henry ; and 5, Edward : and two daughters 
1, Anne ; 2, Mary, married to the Rev. Nat. 1 Preston. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 27 

took place. I tried and recollected some of my old tunes 
to set tlie rest agoing, then the Mr. Hamiltons brought 
fiddle and flute and played some very pretty sonatas 
together. 

Mrs. Gr. Hamilton plays very agreeably on the harpsi- 
chord, but particularly excels in country dances and 
minuets, which she plays so distinctly, and in such firm 
good time that it supplied the place of an excellent 
fiddler. Dinner at four. Here's my bill of fare : 

Turbot and Soles, remove Ham. 
Force meat, &c. 2 Partridges, 2 Grouse. 

Eabbits and Onions. Sweetbreads e i j- 
lies. i balmigundi. 

and crumbs. 

Soup. 
Boiled Chicken. Collop Veal and Olives. Pease. 

Cream Pudding. Plumb Crocant. 

Chine of Mutton. Turkey in Jelly. Hare. Lobster Fricassee. 
Desert Nine things, six of them fruit out of our own garden, and a plate 
of fine Alpine strawberries. 

These particulars may be impertinent, but it is doing 
as I would be done by ; and between real friends no cir- 
cumstance is ever trivial. 

Coffee and tea at seven, one cribbage table in a corner 
of the room which is pretty large, and three couple of 
dancers to Mrs. Hamilton's playing. At half an hour 
after nine the prayer bell rang and we went to chapel, 
after that a salver with bridal cake ready in the parlour, 
the coaches at the door and the company went 
away at ten. We had a quiet supper by ourselves, a 
party quaree yesterday, and to-day so much company 
that I have hardly time to add everybody's compliments, 
and to say, 

Adieu. 



28 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



From the Rev. Lancelot St. Albyn to the Dean of Down at DelvUle. 
REVEREND DOCTOR, Bridgewater, Oct. 12, 171)4. 

Fully to express my sense of your favour of the 
28th of the last month, and of the obligation it hath 
laid me under, might so nearly resemble flattery, though 
every word would have the sanction of sincerity (as per- 
haps there is scarce an expression which would imply 
the highest esteem that hath not been prostituted by some 
flatterer), that the fear of offending must force me to an 
act of self-denial in barely acknowledging the receipt of 
your letter ; and I shall leave you to judge of the value 
I set on your correspondence by immediately accepting 
of the permission, which your goodness hath so invitingly 
given me, of sending you my thoughts on a few pas- 
sages in the third volume of " Revelation Examined 
with Candour." 

Page 5. In proof that " the honouring of the priest 
was joined to the sacred observance of the Sabbath, as 
the condition of distinguished happiness promised by 
God to his people, by the mouth of his holy prophet 
Isaiah," you quote the 13th and 14th verses of the 58th 
chapter of his prophecy, and in a parenthesis you apply 
the words, " and shalt honour him " to the holy one of the 
Lord ; that is (you say), " the minister of God's wor- 
ship." Now, though I wish that mankind were more 
generally convinced of the honour that is due to the 
priesthood, and admit that we of the priesthood ought 
to be holy unto the Lord, yet I am afraid that this pas- 
sage of Isaiah will not work that conviction, nor prove 
that "the minister of God's worship" was intended to 
be expressed by ''the holy of the Lord." For I am 



OF MRS. DELANY. 29 

inclined to think that, on examining the original, you 
will not find any words to answer to " the holy of the 
Lord," but that " honourable " refers to " the delight 
of the Lord;" i. e., "the Sabbath;" and that instead of 
" shalt honour him," it should be rendered, " shalt 
honour it," to agree with Sabbath. 

In page 43, speaking of fire falling from Heaven on 
the sacrifice of the truly religious, you say, " and indeed 
Abraham's first sacrifice, that we read of, as consumed 
by fire from Heaven," &c. Now, I cannot find any other 
instance besides that mentioned, Genesis 15th and 17th, 
in which fire from Heaven may be supposed to have con- 
sumed Abraham's sacrifice. That it was not thus consumed 
in general, at least that it was not expected by Abraham 
to be thus consumed, is, I think, evident from his taking 
fire with him, Genesis 22nd and 6th, when he set out by 
the express command of God to offer his son for a burnt- 
offering, when, if ever, it might most reasonably be 
expected that fire would descend from Heaven to prove 
the reality of the Divine command. 

Page 50, you say, " that they, (i. e. letters,) were derived 
to the world through Abraham can, I think, be little 
doubted ;" and then you immediately add, " forasmuch 
as the whole world must agree with Sir Isaac Newton, 
that there is no instance of letters for writing down sounds 
being in use before the days of David in any other nation 
besides the posterity of Abraham" Here, sir, I imagine, 
that what you have brought as a proof of your opinion 
(you'll pardon my freedom) must entirely overthrow it. 
For if Abraham was, by any means, acquainted with 
letters, he would certainly have communicated so useful 



30 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

a knowledge to his son Isaac Isaac would certainly 
have communicated so useful a knowledge to his son 
Jacob and Jacob to his sons. In which case Joseph 
cannot be supposed to have been unacquainted with 
letters, and if he had known them, it is highly probable 
he would have communicated them, with his other 
mighty blessings, to the Egyptians. But say you, 
" All the world must agree with Sir Isaac Newton," &c., 
therefore the Egyptians would not be acquainted with 
letters in the days of Joseph, and therefore the reverse of 
the chain of reasoning; Joseph could not be therefore 
Jacob could not be therefore Isaac could not be and 
therefore Abraham could not be acquainted with letters. 
As to the Egyptians particularly, indeed, it appears, from 
another quotation from Sir Isaac, p. 52 and 53, that 
letters did not begin among them till David's time. 

As to what you offer, in page 53, &c., in respect to 
Abraham's having laws given him by God, and their 
being called "God's charge, commandments, statutes, 
and laws " which, indeed, you only hint, and leave it, 
as you say, "to your learned and contemplative readers, 
to inquire and determine for themselves," if this, to 
avoid tautology, be admitted as a proof that Abraham 
had a written law, and it be likewise admitted that 
" Dr. Grew hath also clearly proved that such laws were 
given to mankind antecedent to the law of Moses through 
Adam and Noah," then, I think, it will follow that 
both Noah and Adam had a written law, and, conse- 
quently, that Abraham was not the first that had a 
written law and a knowledge of letters. But, after all, 
perhaps the words of the sacred historian, Gen. 26 and 5, 



OF MRS. DELANY. 31 

are the language of anticipation no uncommon thing 
you know, sir, in the writings of Moses. 

If I may be allowed to offer my opinion in this case 
(and I believe I am not the first who hath maintained 
it), I think it most probable that Moses was the first to 
whom this important discovery of letters was made, and 
that this was done on Mount Sinai, at the delivery of 
the two tables ; and that, in this sense, the Decalogue is 
said to be " written with the finger of God." This 
opinion, besides that it interferes not with the accounts 
of Sir Isaac Newton, appears to me to be confirmed by 
this observation viz., that before this event on Mount 
Sinai there is nowhere to be found, as far as I can recol- 
lect, through the sacred history, the least mention of, or 
allusion to, writing or letters. 

I can easily admit Isaac's readiness in submitting to 
be made a burnt-offering, and in this light consider him 
as a type of Christ : but I cannot think his carrying of 
the wood is any proof of his faith, as you suppose, p. 63. 
For it is plain from the sacred history, Gen. 2 2nd, 7th, 
that Isaac, at the time he carried the word, had not the 
least conception that he himself was to supply the place 
of the lamb for a burnt-offering. 

As to the difficulty which you mention (p. lllth), 
arising from " appetite in the brute world being, for the 
most part, regular in its pursuits, and instinct unerring ;" 
whilst " appetite in the human species is oftentimes 
vicious and irregular, and reason irregular, and reason 
erroneous." I am inclined to think it may be dissoluble 
on the supposition of man being placed here in a state 
of trial, as preparatory to another state of existence and 
the brutes not and that reason cannot well be supposed 



32 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

to have been as not erroneous before the fall even from 
the circumstance of the fall itself : that the truth is 
man was in a state of trial before the fall, and conse- 
quently capable of erring ; and that after the fall he was, 
by the mercy of God, in virtue of the redemption by 
Christ, re-instated in a life of trial, and, consequently, 
continued to be liable. Indeed, by his fall became more 
liable to err. If it be said, in answer to this, that " God 
made man perfect," it is to be answered that such per- 
fection must be relative to the state for which he was 
created, and cannot be understood to imply an absolute 
perfection, 

These points, I beg leave, with all the deference to 
your superior judgment, to offer to your re-consideration ; 
not doubting of my remarks on them being received with 
candour : and as your condesension hath encouraged me 
to hope for an answer to this, as well as to the business 
of my former letter, you must give me leave, after ex- 
pressing my sincere concern for your ill state of health, 
before I conclude, to join with those who are blessed 
with an intimacy with you, in praying for a long enjoy- 
ment of those great abilities in which your goodness 
hath now more immediately interested your most obliged 
humble servant, 

LANC T . ST. ALBYN. 

Gen. 22. 17. 
23. 1726. 

3G. 10 11, compare with Job 15. v. 1. 

The Editor is indebted to " Notes and Queries " for information 
relative to the family of the writer of the above letter. 

The Rev. Lancelot St. Albyri was connected with the Devon 
family of that name, who deduce their origin from St. Albine in 



OF MRS. DELANY. 33 

Normandy. The manor of Alfoxton, in the county of Somerset, 
belongs to this family. The Rev. Lancelot St. Albyn was the 
second son of Lancelot St. Albyn of Nether Stowey. He was 
educated at Baliol College, Oxford, and was Rector of Paracombe, 
and Vicar of Wembdon, in the counties of Devon and Somerset. 
He married Anna Maria, daughter of Henry Selleck, Esq., of 
Walford, Co. Somerset. On the death of his elder brother's 
wife, he succeeded to the estates of Alfoxton, and dying without 
issue, on Jan 22, 1791, and being the last of his family in the 
male line, he bequeathed his estates, on the death of his wife, 
which took place July 1, 1803, to the elder son (when he should 
attain the age of twenty-one years) of his nephew, St. Albyn 
Gravenor, son of his eldest sister, Elizabeth, who married William 
Gravenor, merchant of Bristol. The seal of Mr. St. Albyn was 
an ancient coat of arms, with the motto " Dens meus dux meus" 






Rev. Lancelot St. Albyn to the Dean of Down. 
EEVEREND DOCTOR, Bridgewater, Nov. 16, 1764. 

A violent nervous complaint in my head, with 
which I have been many years troubled, and several 
unavoidable avocations, have deprived me of the pleasure 
of making that speedy acknowledgment, and giving that 
well-weighed answer, which your favour of the eleventh of 
the last month deserves. Indeed, the mortifying, though 
humane, footing, on which you put the supposed incon- 
sistency of Dr. Spencer, 1 in confining the apostolical 
decree of abstinence from blood to the sole purpose of 
guarding the new Gentile converts to Christianity from 
idolatry, and yet being of opinion, with Chrysostom, 
that blood was prohibited to the sons of Noah, as the 
practice of eating it tends to cruelty, naturally makes 
one diffident of one's own opinion ; and at the same 



1 Dr. John Spencer, Dean of Ely. 
PART II. VOL. I. D 



34 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

time, that tenderness with which you treat what you 
look on as a mistake in another, encourages one to pro- 
pose whatever has the appearance of truth. I shall, 
therefore, without any further apology, or introduction, 
proceed first to consider your reasons for differing from 
Dr. Spencer, and shall then endeavour to support his 
opinion ; which, after the best attention T can give to 
your reflections, I must say, still appears to me to have 
truth on its side. 

Your first observation, on the connecting particle 
being prefixed to each article in the apostolical decree, 
would carry great weight with it, had the expression 
" pollutions of idols " been left at large in its most com- 
prehensive sense. But the apostles themselves, have 
explained the meaning, and restrain the sense of pollu- 
tions of idols in such a manner as to make it impossible 
for St. James to have said, as you would expect, " that 
they abstain from pollutions of idols, that is to say forni- 
cation, blood, and things strangled ;" even though his 
intention was the very same, as Dr. Spencer supposes it 
to have been. For the first of these, viz. fornication, 
could not possibly be ranged under the general expres- 
sion " pollutions of idols," when understood in the sense 
of " meats offered to idols." But if the apostles' inten- 
tion was to guard the heathen converts from the 
temptations to, and suspicions of idolatry, as well as 
from the vice itself, the prohibition only of all meat in 
general offered to idols, as such, would not have answered 
his purpose. For that vice, which the grand author of 
idolatry had so artfully given a kind of sanction to, by 
making it a religious rite, made it necessary for the 
apostle, when guarding against idolatry, to stigmatize 



OP MRS. DELANY. 35 

that temptation to it with the forbidding character 
of sin : and the received opinion of the intention which 
the general practice of the heathen world had esta- 
blished in eating blood, made the eating it naturally lead 
to a suspicion of the eater's being an idolater : if it was, 
then, the intention of the apostle to forbid the three 
last articles, as being either incitements to, or concomi- 
tants of, that sin, the connecting particle was, in that case, 
proper, and necessary. So that the connecting parti- 
cles, so far from overthrowing Dr. Spencer's construc- 
tion, rather tend to the confirmation of it ; and the con- 
nection between the different articles of this decree is by 
this construction, and (with due deference to superior 
judgments) be it spoken, by this construction only, satis- 
factorily made out : and farther, I think, a somewhat 
similar question to that with which you so successfully 
pressed the patrons of the opinion, that the design of 
the apostolical decree was merely to avoid giving offence 
to the Jews, may with propriety be here turned against 
you. How come these four prohibitions, and these four 
only, to be selected out of the law of God, and joined to- 
gether in this decree ? The proper answer, as I trust, 
will be given to this question in the sequel. 

As to the inconsistency, which you imagine Dr. Spencer 
to have been guilty of, in confining the apostolical 
decree to the sole purpose of guarding the new Gentile 
converts to Christianity from idolatry, and at the same 
time allowing that blood was prohibited to the sons of 
Noah, because the practice naturally tended to induce 
cruelty, first to the creatures, and consequently to man- 
kind, I must beg leave to say, I cannot see the least 
inconsistency in this. May not even the same command, 

D 2 



36 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

or prohibition, delivered either by the same, or different 
persons, at different times, and under a different situation 
of things or circumstances, be delivered with different 
intentions, and for different purposes ? I freely own, I 
am clearly of opinion that the Divine intention in the 
prohibition of blood to Noah was principally intended to 
prevent cruelty, and its natural consequence, murder : 
but then I cannot see, that it follows from thence, that 
the Divine intention must be the same in every subse- 
quent prohibition of blood. It is from the circumstances 
of the time of the prohibition, and the manner in which 
it was delivered, that we collect the Divine intention in 
it ; and in the same manner we are to collect the Divine 
intention in every other prohibition of it : accordingly 
we find, the reason of its being prohibited under the 
law, Lev. 17, was to preserve the Jews from idolatry, we 
in the same manner deduce the nature of the apostolical 
decree respecting blood, &c. to be. But that this was the 
sole intention of the decree, is the point you cannot admit. 
This, however, will be the subject of a future inquiry. 

As for any good uses that might be made of the ob- 
servance of the decree, either to refute that calumny 
raised by the heathens against the Christians, of sacri- 
ficing their children and drinking their blood, I think 
they cannot affect the point in question, unless it be 
made to appear that the apostles had such uses in their 
contemplation when they made the decree ; for the single 
question is, what was the intention of the apostles in 
their decree. 

Neither can I think that the prudential use which 
might at first, or at any time since, be made of the 
decree in avoiding offence to the Jews, or to any others, 



OF MRS. DELANY. 37 

was any part of the apostles' intention in making it; 
and little should I have expected a construction of 
Acts 15 and 21 in favour of that opinion from the 
author of " Revelation Examined with Candour," vol. 2, 
pp. 48 and 49. However it may with the greatest 
reason be said, that no man is obliged for ever to abide 
by what he has once thought or written ; but I should 
be glad to know the reasons of the alteration of your 
sense of this passage. For my part, as I cannot see 
anything in the decree itself, or any part of the sacred 
history immediately preceding or following it, as savour- 
ing in the least of any intention to avoid giving offence 
to the Jews, T look on your former construction to be 
the true one ; to which, if you please, you may add the 
reason why, if this was the apostles' intention, they 
had not prohibited likewise the eating of creatures 
distinguished by the law of Moses as unclean, which I 
apprehend was one very great rock of offence from the 
Christians, as well as the heathens, to the Jews. I 
must beg leave to add that I think your zeal for the 
apostolical decree carried you too far in asserting that 
" this prohibition necessarily extended to the very ex- 
istence of the Christian religion, and that it would other- 
wise have been cut off in its infancy." Certainly this 
gracious scheme was unalterably fixed in the eternal 
decrees of the Divine will ; and I am well satisfied that 
all the opposition which the greatest malice of the Jews, 
nay all mankind, and even the powers of darkness them- 
selves, could have raised, would not have been able to 
have prevailed against it so as to cut it off. 

With respect to the law of nature, I have heard much of 
the " state of nature," " the law of nature," and " the reli- 



38 . LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

gion" of nature, but I am strongly inclined to believe there 
never was a state of nature (in the usual sense of that 
phrase) in which man was left to the sole direction of his 
reason, without the least assistance from any Divine reve- 
lation. It is an easy matter to delineate a very plausi- 
ble religion of nature from the dictates of human reason, 
improved by the discoveries of the several Divine reve- 
lations which have been made to mankind. But were 
any one to be confined in such a work to the notions 
and practices of those who may be supposed to have 
received the least assistance from thence, their law of 
nature would prove to be very vague and uncertain, and 
their list of moral duties very short for which reasons 
those arguments which derive their force from any sup- 
posed law of nature, as such, have little effect on me. 

Thus much I have taken the liberty without offence, 
I hope to observe, in answer to your reflections on Dr. 
Spencer, and should now proceed to endeavour a further 
support of his opinion, but I have found by experience, 
that increasing the size of my packet would greatly 
increase the charge at the post office, and shall there- 
fore make it another letter; so here I shall for the 
present take my leave of you by assuring you that I am, 
with the greatest regard, 

Your most obliged humble servant, 

LANCELOT ST. 



1 The Editor is aware that this letter and the preceding one may not be 
entertaining to general readers, but they are interesting to those who wish to 
have a specimen of the epistolary discussions then carried on between the 
Divines of the last century ; and there is one remarkable superiority which 
may be observed in these letters by comparison with those of the present time 
the writers wrote for each other, and not for the world ; they were really 



OF MRS. DELANY. 39 



Mrs. Delany to Mr. Court Dewes. 

Delville, 7th Dec. 1764. 

I should long ago have saluted you at Oxford, where 
I suppose you now are, my dear nephew, but company 
that was in the house with me took up my time so 
much as to allow me little leisure. I hope this will find 
you well in the midst of your studies, and shall be glad, 
when an idle hour comes in your way, to have the plea- 
sure of hearing from you, though the dulness, I fear, 
of my letter will be small encouragement, for what can 
a quiet fire-side produce that can entertain a sprightly 
Oxonian? I can give you some satisfaction I am sure 
in a good account of the health of your friends here, and 
an assurance of their sincere affection for you. 

Do you go to Welsbourne this winter, and when? 
By this time I suppose your sister is returned thither, 
as my brother wrote me word his health obliged him to 
go to the Bath, and that Mary was then to go home. I 
can send you no news from hence. The season of the 
year confines us at home pretty much, and the badness 
of the weather cools the courage of our visitors, who 
would otherwise afford us more tittle tattle than we can 
now pick up. The Primate's unexpected recovery has 
caused very different emotions ; among his intimates 
great joy, the contrary to those who were in expectation 
of succeeding him. I, who feel family attachments very 
powerfully, am glad he is well again, though as a Prelate 



interested in the subject they discussed, and full of zeal in their endeavour to 
arrive at a right solution, and this state of inind produced clear and earnest 
language, devoid of affectation and entirely free from all canting phraseology. 



LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



and a Prime Minister, perhaps he might have done better, 
but that is not certain. Plays and burlettas are much 
in vogue, and are liked and disliked according to the 
various humours of their audience. I have, as it is 
time, given up all public hurley -burleys, but enjoy the 
recital of them very well. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Delville, Dec. 29, 1764. 

Cold as I am, and hungry for want of letters, three 
packets being due (and not having heard for three before 
that), I must write to my dear Mary lest a longer 
silence should give her pain, which willingly she shall 
never feel from me. Many happy years to you, my 
dear child, and pray make my wishes for the same to 
your father and brothers, with those of all your friends 
here. I hope you and my brother kept to your intended 
time of leaving Calwich, as I think the weather was 
better then than it has proved since ; at this time the 
winds are piercing cold, but a gleam of sunshine has 
just broken out, and gives hope of a favourable change. 

I have directed two letters at a hazard to Bath. The 
Dean complains a good deal of his usual pain, but is 
rather in better spirits than when I last wrote. 

Dr. Sandford has better health than ever I knew him 
have. I wish I could say as much of our dear Mrs. 
Sandford, but hope hers will mend ; her most affectionate 
compliments attend you ; that she does not write is not 
owing to the want of the sincerest regard to you, but it 
has been absolute inability. 

Mrs. Marley is going to marry her daughter to Sir 



OF MRS. DELANY. 41 

Richard WolseleyV eldest son : not an agreeable man, 
but has a good character, and the young lady makes no 
objection at present. Their income will be 800 a year 
after Sir Eichard's death, two thousand her fortune at 
present, five thousand pounds and after an aunt's death 
800 a year estate. Lord Shannon 2 died yesterday 
morning of the gout in his stomach ; and they say the 
Primate has relapsed ; this will cause some emotion in 
our body politic. 

Mrs. Hamilton is extremely uneasy at not having 
heard from Mr. James Hamilton ; she sent him a note 
of consequence a great while ago, which, as well as on 
the account of his health, makes her anxious to hear 
from him ; his sister is quite unhappy at his not writing. 
I beg your brother will be so good to make some inquiry, 
and give some account of him soon. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Delville, 21st Jan. 1765. 

Your consoling reflections, my dear Mary, are such as 
alone can make us go through the trials of life. Patience 
and resignation to the allwise and gracious Disposer of 
all things is absolutely our duty, and surely the best 
means of mitigating pain and sorrow, while repining, de- 
sponding, and fretfulness, are the sure means of aggra- 
vating every distress. I never pray more earnestly for 
any blessing on myself than for contentment ! the most 



1 Dec. 29, 1764, Richard, eldest son of Sir Richard Wolseley, of Mount 
Arran, Co. Carlow, married Letitia, only daughter of Anthony Morley, Esq. 
of Celbridge. 

8 Henry Boyle, 1st Earl of Shannon, died 28th Dec., 1764. 



42 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

affluent and splendid situation without it is poverty, 
and with it the most moderate fortune riches I But 
contentment cannot come if we have reason to reproach 
ourselves with an improper or wrong conduct, if we 
avoid self-condemnation the task will be easy, and 
I congratulate you, my dearest niece, on having had 
such a command of yourself, as must always be a satis- 
faction to you ; you know the worth of the friends you 
are already possessed of, and when you add one to the 
number that must be dearer to you than all the rest, I 
hope it will be such a one as will make you truly happy 
and do you honour, but on such occasions we must always 
distrust our own partiality, and call those in to our 
assistance whose affection for us must make them con- 
sider our real happiness, and whose judgments are 
unprejudiced. Our dear Mrs. Sandford is mortified to 
the last degree at not having been able to write to you. 

[The end of this letter is missing.] 



Letter from Dr. Young 1 to a, Friend, (in the handwriting of Mrs. Delany). 
MY DEAR, DEAR SlR, 

Your pain is your glory ; it is not from weakness, 
but virtue. What a monster is man without a tender 
and feeling heart ! how unlike his most dear and blessed 
Redeemer ! over his dead friend Jesus wept ! 

Nor is this stroke of heart more a misfortune than a 
mercy to you. From endowments of nature and fortune 
what strong temptations have you to be fond of this 
world, and how could divine paternal tenderness more 



Dr. Edward Young, died April 12, 1765. 



OF MES. DELANY. 43 

powerfully caution you against it than by what has 
happened. 

As for the deceased, what Christian does not admire 
his behaviour in his last hour and piously envy his 
release ! In one word, Grod is love, and does nothing 
but to bring our hearts to himself, and I am of opinion 
that there never was any human heart entirely his which 
has been w/zwounded by some distress ! this considered 
(and with the additional weight which your own excel- 
lent thoughts must naturally give it) will inspire resig- 
nation, and real resignation must for ever be accom- 
panied with a degree of joy, considering what a friend it 
makes for us in lieu of the dearest we can possibly lose. 

That this joy may fill your and your very worthy 
parents hearts is the warmest wish and earnest prayer 
of, dear sir, your and their 

Truly affectionate and obedient 

Humble servant. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Delville, 12th March, 1765. 

My dear Mary, are you really a chess player ? Why, 
it seems as extraordinary as if our Prime Minister was to 
dance a jig ! Not that I question your ingenuity, which 
I am sure is equal to the task, but it requires the sobriety 
of threescore rather than nineteen. Don't imagine I 
mean to ridicule your acquisition of this game, which I 
admire you for learning, and is an excellent school for 
keeping the thoughts steady, and therefore sometimes 
very useful. I hope now I have named nineteen, that 
though I did not write to you particularly on that day, 



44 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

that you do not think I was wanting in affectionate 
wishes, and I may say prayers, for your enjoying many 
years of felicity ; for bad as this world is, it has its feli- 
cities, especially when the hopes of future happiness is 
the chief point we aim at ; indeed our mfelicities are often 
of our own creating, by expectations that are too high, or 
by acting too meanly ! The first is not so desperate a case 
as the latter, as time will show the fallacy of unreason- 
able expectations ; but that of not acting up to our own 
dignity is doing ourselves an irreparable injury. I am 
sure, my dear Mary, you know how to distinguish be- 
tween a proper respect for ourselves, and pride. Whatever 
expands (if I may use that expression) our virtues, 
amongst which I rank humility, is keeping up our dig- 
nity, and giving us that consequence which we should 
most wish for. Pride is detestable, as it is productive 
of a train of ills. You may shine at a ball, be as well 
dressed as anybody, and by a proper and prudent be- 
haviour give and receive pleasure, without the least 
imputation of pride ; and you may visit your poor neigh- 
bours, and with your own hands bestow every comfort, 
without the imputation of meanness, but quite the con- 
trary when it is done with true Christian benevolence, 
but if your charity is bestowed with ostentation and arro- 
gance, you then are proud, if you are affected and im- 
pertinent in your behaviour at a ball, you then are mean. 
I congratulate you on the happy disposition, that leads 
you to contentment. Cherish it as the means of more 
certain happiness than any other inclination can give ; 
'tis the true cordial drop ! 

I am sorry you are so sanguine about August, as the 
uncertainty of our English journey is so great ; but de- 



OF MRS. DEL ANY. 45 

lighted with the pleasure you express on the hopes of 
seeing us. The Dean much obliged by it, but he sighed 
heavily, without making any other answer than that he 
" wished to be able to gratify us all." 

We have had the coldest winter I think I ever re- 
member in Ireland, and several of my finest myrtles 
cruelly nipt by it ; and the spring in general very back- 
ward. I am going as soon as the frost will permit me to 
plant some more shrubs, and happy should I be could 
my dear Mary accompany me through the windings and 
shade of my small improvements, and partake of all my 
rural pleasures, such as I know she delights in. Your 
letter to Lady Cowper was in very tolerable time. I had 
a very obliging and sprightly one from her last post. 
She mentions you with her usual kindness. 

I am very sorry Mrs. Mead's health is in so indifferent 
a state. Pray make my kind compliments to her, those 
of tliis house attend you. Mrs. M. Forth has been with 
us above a month. She leaves us next Saturday, and with 
regret we shall part with her, for under the circumstance 
of constant bad health she has uncommon cheerfulness 
and good humour ; her good sense is superior to most 
people's, which she has improved to great advantage. 
She is indeed a most useful friend and desirable com- 
panion. On Wednesday se'night we expect Mr. and Mrs. 
Preston to stay some days with us. Fanny Williams 
comes to town to-day. She has had an obstinate disorder, 
which is somewhat abated ; but she does not like Ire- 
land and wishes to go home. I will take care and send 
her in the best manner I can. I trust you will be so 

as to send her mother word of it. 
You have raised a curiosity in me about Mr. J. H. 



46 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

If you have heard anything about him, you may safely 
communicate it to me. 



Mrs. Delany to the Viscountess Andover. 

Delville, 27th April, 1765. 

You are very good and kind, my dear Lady Andover, 
and without such a support as an assurance tha,t I am not 
forgotten by my much valued friends in England, I could 
not well support so tedious an absence as I have already 
undergone and am still likely to endure, for D.D. has 
such frequent returns of his disorder that he can hardly 
bear going out at all. I thank God it is not in any 
degree alarming, as they assure me he is in no danger 
of any bad consequence, but constant pain, though slight, 
is very dispiriting ! 

I am impatient till I hear again from your Ladyship, 
though I hope by the account you gave me of Miss F. 
Howard's cough, that she has now no remains of it ; the 
present soft weather will be one of the best means of 
curing it. 

How good ! how like herself was our most dear friend's 
carrying Lady Carlisle * down to Bulstrode, at a time 
when it must have been shocking to her to have been in 
town ? I am glad the sad affair has ended to her satis- 
faction. 

I am afraid the death of Dr. Young touched the 
Duchess of Portland. Her tenderness for her friends is 
unalterable. But such an event has little to be lamented 



1 " Lady Carlisle." Isabella, daughter of William, 4th Lord Byron, and 
widow of Henry, 4th Earl of Carlisle. Her brother Lord Byron's trial by 
his Peers, for killing Mr. Chaworth in a duel, took place during the month of 
April, 1705. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 47 

for one so prepared for everlasting happiness ; and yet self 
will so far prevail as to make us consider our own im- 
mediate loss and not what our friend gains. 

I was surprized with an account of Mrs. Southwell's * 
death, surely it was sudden ? All I heard about it was 
in the newspapers. The only articles I look for in the 
papers are Marriages, Deaths, the Conjuror, and the 
French Wild Beast ! But I only read them like a tale, 
giving no credit till confirmed by a better hand. 

The month of May will make your Ladyship pine 
after your fragrant hill but Manzoli, 2 Almacks, 3 and the 
long &c. of diversions, surely have attractions enough 
to keep you some time longer in their way not indeed 
for your own enjoyment, but to indulge Miss F. Howard, 
who may very reasonably wish to have her share. Your 
attractions are of another nature, and somewhat more 
powerful in Duke Street and Whitehall. 

I beg your Ladyship will tell me something about the 
Conjuror. I suppose a second Duncomb Campbell a 
frenzy that reigned before you were born. 

M. DELANY. 



1 " Mrs. Southwell." Catherine, daughter of Edward Watson, Viscount 
Sondes, married E. Southwell, Esq., M.P. for Gloucester. Her son was after- 
wards the Baron de Clifford. She died April, 1765. 

2 Giovanni Manzoli, a celebrated Italian singer, who came to England in 
1764, and remained only one season in London. Dr. Burney says, " Manzoli's 
voice was the most powerful and voluminous soprano that had been heard on 
our stage since the time of Farinelli, and his manner of singing was grand and 
full of dignity." 

3 "Almacks" Named after the original proprietor. Gilly Williams, 
writing to George Selwyn, Feb. 22, 1765. mentions that Almacks was then 
opened with a ten guinea subscription, for which there was a ball and supper 
once a week for twelve weeks. He adds, "Almacks' Scotch face in a bag-wig, 
waiting at supper, would divert you, as would his lady in a sack, making tea 
and curtseying to the Duchesses." 



48 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Duncan Campbell was the son of Archibald Campbell of the 
Argyll family. His mother was a Laplander with the gift of 
second sight. Duncan was deaf and dumb. He foretold fortunes 
from six years old, and was consulted by all ranks. He came to 
London from Edinburgh in 1694, he was then 14, and was con- 
sulted and waited upon by fine ladies till 1702, when he retired 
till he had spent his fortune, and then he went as a volunteer to 
Holland, returned to London, and was again the fashion ; married 
a widow (Digby) of good fortune, and lived in Monmouth 
Court. His life and adventures were written by Defoe when he 
lived in Exeter Court, Savoy, Strand, in 1720. The Epistle- 
Dedicatory is signed by Duncan Campbell. 



Mrs. Delany to the Viscountess Andover. 

Delvillc, 8th June, 1765. 

The Dean has been so much out of order with his old 
complaint, and of consequence my spirits so much affected, 
that I have avoided writing to my dear Lady Andover 
till I was a more reasonable creature : I thank God he 
is rather better; he has given up his house in the 
Deanary, 1 being unable to bear so long a journey without 
great inconvenience. The same painful reason puts a 
stop to an English journey this year I dare look no 
farther ! What this disappointment must be to a heart 
so much devoted to its friends your Ladyship's can better 
judge than I can express, nattering myself (as you are 
among the number of the dearest), sympathy will do that 
for me I can't do for myself. 

By the papers Lord Suffolk succeeds Lord Weymouth 
as Master of the Horse to the Queen. I hope it has 
been an agreeable acquisition to you as well as him, and 

1 This allusion to the house in the Deanery having been given up may 
account for the former remark on " our cottar/?." and the "bad house" they 
occupied when previously in Co. Down. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 49 

beg leave to make my congratulations on the occasion. 
D.D., Dr. and Mrs. Sandford join with me, in their 
most respectful compliments to your Lad}^ship and Miss 
F. Howard, who I hope is now perfectly well, and that 
you both enjoy the sweets and shades of the beloved Hill 
and its pleasing environs, but the very dry season has not 
been favourable to Flora, her beauties are too much sun- 
burnt. 

But, my dear Lady Andover, my heart is full about 
our Pall Mall friends ! The step they are going to take, 
(I am told by officious tell-tales), is owing to absolute 
necessity; if that is the case, what has not the tender 
heart we are acquainted with suffered on her child's 
account, and what must she have suffered too ? I don't 
hear a word to that purpose from England. My beloved 
friend says she " wishes to open her heart to me, but 
prudence will not let her do it by letter." how I am 
distressed for her ! and how sensibly it makes me feel the 
impossibility of seeing her this year in England ! The 
story goes that the acceptance of this employment was 
urged on by the great sum of money lost at N. M. to a 
very great man, and that the coach and horses were seized, 
and a train of disagreeable things said, which fire and 
fret me, and I am ignorant of everything ! Your Lady- 
ship may easily think how pleasant and joyful it would 
be to me to see L. W. here, and what an addition it 
would be could I flatter myself with being in the minutest 
circumstance of any consequence to her. You know how 
difficult a thing it is to come at the real truth of anything ; 
and the too great caution of friends not daring to com- 
municate all particulars by letter, keeps me quite in the 
dark in regard to those I am most anxious about : tho' a 

PART II. VOL. I. E 



50 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

letter not signed, and names not written, hazards very 
little I should think. 

Mrs. Sandford has been returned about a month to 
Delville, as well as her present circumstances will admit 
of; next month I hope will relieve her from her present 
encumbered state. They are still with us, and will re- 
main here till good fortune enables them to settle in a 
home of their own, which their present income cannot 
prudently allow of, as hitherto all my efforts have been 
in vain. 

I wish to know your employments, and how drawing 
and painting goes on, a little sketch on a card would be 
reviving ! Every token of being remembered is precious, 
and the only means of supporting so long an absence. 

I have lived much in my garden, and that prevents 
works at home. I am afraid to begin with painting ; 
there is a time for all things, and when the sight grows 
dim I think it is a warning to leave off without losing the 
small credit I may have gained ! The warm weather 
has brought swarms to the garden, and I have seen more 
company within this fortnight, than for four months 
past. 

Those that will come to me in all seasons are most 
welcome, and I have a few that never fail me ; and fortu- 
nately they are the prime of my acquaintance. 

Weddings are going forward, some wise some other wise. 
Miss Monck, 1 Lady Bell's daughter, to be married to the 
Earl of Tyrone, a man of more intrinsic worth than he 



1 Elizabeth only daughter and heiress of Henry Monk, of Charleville, Esq., 
nucl Lady Isabella Bentinck married, in April, 1769, George de la Poer, 2nd 
Earl of Tyrone, who was created Marquis of Waterford, 19th August, 1789, 
and died 3rd Dec., 1800. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 51 

appears to be, and she is much commended for good- 
nature and not wanting sense, among her acquaintance ; 
no beauty between them, but very good fortune. As it 
will fix them in this country, I think it will be agree- 
able to all parties. 

I most impatiently long to hear from you, and am 
more than I can express, 

Your Ladyship's obliged, affectionate, and 
Obedient humble servant, 

M. DELANY. 



Mrs. Delany to the Viscountess Andover. 

Delville, 29th June, 1765. 

You are far better to me, my dear Lady Andover, than 
my words can properly acknowledge, but my heart pays 
you with true affection, and feels for what you have suf- 
fered on dear Miss F. Howard's account, praying most 
earnestly that her health and your happiness may be 
perfectly restored. 

Though your Ladyship's account of the state of affairs 
in Pall Mall is by no means what one would wish, it is 
some kind of satisfaction to know the truth, and to re- 
ceive intelligence from those that may be depended on. 
That magnifying babbler report represents everything of 
an enormous size, and one's own terrors where a friend is 
concerned helps to aggravate every circumstance. I 
have been miserable for my dear friend and her amiable 
daughter, and am sure how much soever prudence may 
seal their lips even to their faithfullest friends, that they 
cannot be ignorant of what is so well known and so much 
talked of. Were there a hope that the inveterate dis- 

E 2 



52 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

temper could be checked from making a farther progress, 
surely they have the means in their own hands of heal- 
ing the wounds that have been made, especially with the 
addition they will have here. 

How the scheme of staying three or four years on the 
spot where all their magnificence must be kept up may 
answer I cannot say, though the circumstance of seeing her 
often would be very delightful to me ; but I shall have many 
mortifications should she not please, which I should not 
doubt, were her own merit to have justice done to it. 

I received last post an account of Mrs. Granville 1 that 
has shocked me extremely, not having had the least hint 
given me of her disorder, which I now find is a cancer in 
her breast, and so far advanced as to give no hope of her 
recovery. It is a mistaken kindness to conceal the sick- 
ness and distresses of absent friends, unless of so slight 
a nature as to give hopes they may be over without its 
being known at all if not, they always are discovered 
in a more painful way than if a judicious friend gave the 
account ; and as mortality is the lot of every one, and to 
the good a happy period, a proper warning of what is 
inevitable, though painful, prepares the mind for that 
submission and resignation which Christianity demands 
from us. I cannot help being very anxious till I hear 
again. Lady Wallingford was so good as to let me know 
the melancholy situation of poor Mrs. G., and indeed with 
much caution and kindness ; but the information comes 
very late, when all hope is over. I have had a wonderful 
reicpe given me for a cancer, with a certain assurance of 
its extraordinary efficacy, even in the last stage of that 
dreadful disorder, and could not answer it to myself not 

1 " Mrs. Granville." The Hon. Ann Granville. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 53 

to communicate it, but I fear it will not be tried as 
thinking it too late, or as a quack medicine, which how- 
ever it is not, but the prescription of a regular physician. 

I am ashamed to have worried your Ladyship so 
much on this subject, but my heart is full of it, and my 
heart must dictate when I write to such a friend. 

The Dean, I thank God, is much better, and able to go 
a little way in his coach. Mrs. Sandford is drawing near 
her painful hour, and supporting it with great resolution 
and composure, though she suffers still a great deal from 
sickness and faintness. I suppose in less than three 
weeks she will be in her bed. 

We hear now that affairs in London are in a bustle, 
still unsettled. One of our peers read a letter yesterday 
he had from thence, to the Dean of Down that by next 
packet we "should hear of an entire revolution in the 
ministry," and that if that was the case Lord W. would 
not come hither. 

It is an age since I heard from the Duchess of Port- 
land. I hear she has schemed some journeys for the 
summer. Oh ! were there no sea between us how I could 
natter myself? This leads me to the sad disappoint- 
ment of not seeing England this year, and it is too sore 
to dwell upon. 

Give me, my dearest Lady Andover, the consolation of 
hearing from you as often as you have a moment you 
can easily spare ; absence without such cordials is insup- 
portable. I am more than I can say, 

Your Ladyship's most affectionate, 

Obliged, and obedient, 

M. D. 




54 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



The Countess Coioper to Miss Deives at Welsbourne. 

Richmond, Aug. 9th, 1765. 

MY DEAR Miss DEVVES, 

I have been long indebted to you for a most 
agreeable letter. I can with great truth assure you that 
it always gives me pleasure to hear from you, but still 
more to see you, and if Mr. Dewes would trust you with 
me next winter at Richmond, though you might not gain 
any accomplishments, you should not lose any ; and my 
equipage should convey you sometimes to your uncle 
in town, and meet you in London to bring you here, 
whenever you summon it. 

I natter myself, my dear Miss Dewes, this will not be 
an unpleasant scheme to you, and if Mr. Dewes chooses 
to bring you here himself he will be very welcome. 
Pray deliver this message to him with my best compli- 
ments, not forgetting your brother. 

Lady Spencer is gone to town to lie-in. My son is 
soon to be Earl Spencer, 1 offered in the most gracious 
manner by his Majesty iwasked, which greatly enhances 
the value of the dignity. 

I have never seen my nieces, the Tollemaches, though 
they have been for some months past at Ham House ! 
I wish for their sakes that all my goddaughters were like 
you, but that is too muck to expect ! 

If Mrs. Delany should come into England this autumn, 
I conclude I must give up all hopes of having you with 
me, but then I shall at least have the pleasure of seeing 



1 John Spencer, Esq., created Baron and Viscount Spencer, 3rd April, 1761, 
and Earl of Spencer, 1st Nov., 1765. 



OP MRS. DELANY. 55 

you sometimes. Adieu my dear Miss Dewes, may you 
be ever happy and ever continue to love. 

Your affectionate 

Or. C. COWPER. 

Puff is as handsome, and as noisy as ever. 

Mrs. Del any writes (1765) "Miss Smith is settled with her 
brother in Bloomsbury Square, unless his being married, which 
he was about six weeks ago to Miss Dance, his cousin, should 
make her change her mind. Also I was vastly pleased with 
Lord Spencer, for the handsome present he made Lady Cowper 
of a fine house at Richmond, ready furnished, that cost him 
6000. I hope he and Lady Spencer enjoy better health than 
they did before they went abroad. There are few such noble 
and generous spirits in the world." 



Mr. Dewes, of Welslotime, to his daughter, Miss Dewes. 

Welstxmrne, 10th Oct., 1765. 

DEAR MARY, 

As Mrs. Mead writes by this post, I thought 
proper to enclose a small dab, though I have little 
to say ; as to the news of the place I shall not trouble 
you much with that, as you will have it from a much 
better hand. I am as to health much as you left us, 
only worse as to my hearing. For above a week past we 
have had very uncomfortable weather of late wind and 
rain which still continues, and has in a great measure 
put a stop to the intercourse of the neighbourhood. I 
told you in my last that I thought the party at the Bath 
knew their interest too well to part with our vicar so 
soon as he proposed ; and so it proved, for his servant 
and horses returned without him, and he is not come 

1 The " brother" of Miss Smith was probably the sailor, so often mentioned 
in former years, who was the unsuccessful suitor of Miss Chapoue. 



56 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

yet ; but they say he is much mended. I wish it may 
prove true in the utmost extent of the word. 

Our new neighbour, Dr. Bolton, served for him on 
Sunday last. I had before sent compliments to him, 
which I was glad of, and on Tuesday last Mr. Loggin 
called on me, and he and I went together to see the 
Doctor. He received us very courteously, and seems to 
be a sociable, agreeable man ; he told us that Mr. White's 
servant, after he had agreed to serve for him on Sunday 
last, made a bold push at serving for him next Sunday, 
but the Doctor (who is an entire stranger to Mr. While) 
having never seen him in his life, desired to be excused, 
so who he will get then I know not, for he has pretty 
well tired all the neighbourhood ! Mr. Loggin says Mr. 
Holyoak is at his house at Marlton, and has been for 
about a month past, and goes on much in the same 
manner he did here, so that I believe he is heartily tired 
with him, though he does not care to own it. I .am 
afraid the wet weather we have had of late will interrupt 
your enjoyment of the sweets of Calwich in that per- 
fection you did before, but hope we shall have more fine 
weather yet before winter sets in upon us. I hope the 
agreeable amusements of fishing, hunting, music, and 
cards go on as usual, and that you and all with you are 
well, and desire my best respects to Mr. Granville and 
love to yourself and brothers, 

And am, your most affectionate, 

J. DEWES. 

Compliments to all your neighbours. I suppose your 
brothers will begin to think of returning home soon, 
but as I find by Mrs. Delany that you go to Lady C., 



OF MRS. DELANY. 57 

and as your uncle is so kind as to think of taking you 
to London with him next month, I suppose he will give 
you leave to stay at Calwich till he goes, to which I shall 
have no objection. 



The Countess Cowper to Miss Dewes, at Welsbourne. 

Richmond, Oct. 22nd, 1765. 

MY DEAR Miss DEWES, 

I have just received yours, and cannot defer one 
moment telling you how glad I shall be to see you. I 
hope you do not literally intend to make me a " visit ," 
sweet I know it will be, but I desire it may not be short. 
I conclude you will be sat down at your Aunt Delany's 
in Spring Garden. Let me know what day you will 
come and my equipage shall meet you to bring you and 
your Abigail here, but I keep my footmen at board wages, 
so do not bring one. The little trunk belonging to the 
post chaise I will send with it for your clothes, as yours 
may not fit this carriage. My best compliments to Mr. 
Dewes, and many thanks for permitting you to come to 
Richmond. 

I am ever, dear Miss Dewes, 

Most affectionately yours, 

Gr. C. COWPER. 



Mr. Granvitte to his Niece, Miss Dewes, at the Countess Cowper's. 

Calwich, 18th May, 1766. 

DEAR MADAM, 

I am and ought to be ashamed to own the receipt 
of your letter, as I have been so long without returning 
my thanks. On my first coming home I met with many 



58 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

interruptions, which has been the occasion of my not 
writing sooner, I am not yet quite satisfied which will 
be the best road for my Lady Cowper to come here, in 
case she should honour Calwich so far to visit it. As 
soon as I can depend on the accounts I shall not fail to 
let you know. I have been told that Chesterfield and 
Matlock is a better road than Nottingham. 

I found all the animals well here : your Nan has a fine 
black lamb, so that your number is increased to three. 
I am just come home from Tuckstone Mrs. Docksey's 
compliments attend you. My Norbury neighbours have 
had a sick house, Mrs. Mee and Mrs. Mills are recovered, 
but Miss Dolly Mills has been taken so ill there that 
there is great danger she will not recover. 

I had a letter last week from Delville all pretty well. 
Pray make my best compliments to Lady Cowper, the 
beauties of her room and situation remain so strong on 
my mind that it makes all other places appear dull. 

When you write to Welsbourne pray make my compli- 
ments. Have you heard of Mr. Lucy being returned to 
Charlcot yet? I saw Mrs. Bromley when I was at 
London, who inquired much after you. 

I imagine you have heard of Miss Kinersley 1 being 
married. Mr. Port 2 called here yesterday morning. I 
was sorry to hear Miss Sparrow has not been well lately, 
but I hope it is not anything dangerous. I cannot add 



1 Penelope, eldest daughter of Thomas Kynnersley, of Loxley, Co. Staf- 
ford, married John Sneyd, of Bishton, Esq. 

2 " Mr. Port" of Ham. Mr. Port's name was previously Sparrow, instead of 
which he took the name of Port on succeeding to the Ham property of his 
uncle in Derbyshire. The Sparrows originally Ixjlonged lo North Wales. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 59 

any more now, but my compliments to your brothers, and 
that you will believe me, 

Dear madam, 
Your most faithful, humble servant, 

B. a 

Could you get me a very pretty little fan to give to 
Miss Docksey, and some new thing pretty to put about 
her neck by way of a ruff or some such thing. Your 
brother Bunny may ask Mr. Perkins for money. 



Mrs. Delany to the Viscountess Andover. 

Delville, 3rd June, 1766. 

I rejoice that my dear Lady Andover has exchanged 
the noise and hurry of London for her sweet Hill ! and 
though the weather has not been favourable to your 
Ladyship's thorough enjoyment, there are moments and 
hours of sunshine in the country unknown to the inhabit- 
ants of a populous city. We seem to have returned to 
April, or rather March, and that it is the beginning of 
an early spring, when, alas, we are entered into our 
summer month ! But with all our murmurs there are 
many delights, the verdure, the fragrance of the haw- 
thorn, &c., the singing of the birds, and the charming 
long days. 

I am happy to hear Miss F. Howard is so well, and 
that your ladyship expects the felicity of Lord and Lady 
Suffolk's 1 company in August. I hope nothing will in- 



1 Henry Howard, 12th Earl of Suffolk, married, 25th May, 1764, to Mary 
Constantia, daughter of Robert, Lord Trevor. 



CO 

tervene to rob my brother of the honour you design him, 
as I know it will give him the greatest pleasure. And 
our beloved friend at Bulstrode, I thank God is so well, 
but she does not feel herself quite well, or she would not 
go to Buxton. 

My spirits have been much sunk by the Dean's having 
been a good deal out of order, and finding himself too 
weak to undertake an English journey this year. He is 
very pressing to me to go without him for a few months, 
but that is impossible : I should be miserable to leave 
him. 

I have another great care upon my spirits, which is 
my dear Mrs. Sandford, now at the end of her reckoning 
of a second child. Increasing cares to one of so delicate 
a constitution are hard to sustain, and notwithstanding 
Dr. Sandford's great merit and good recommendations, 
nothing hath yet been done for him. Political em- 
barrassments turn the stream of preferments into another 
channel than that of rewarding merit or obliging par- 
ticular friends it is happy to be connected with those 
that are free from such engagements. 

I have been told that Lord Donegal 1 has several con- 
siderable livings on his estate, and from his Lordship's 
and Lady Donegal's disposition, favour for those that are 
truly worthy and unfortunate might be obtained, if such 
a solicitor as dear Lady Andover would undertake the 
cause. I am afraid I am very presuming in making such 



1 Arthur, 5th Earl of Donegal, who was created Earl of Belfast and Marquess 
of Donegal, 27th June, 1791. He married 1st, in 1761, Anne, eldest daughter 
of James, 5th Duke of Hamilton, by whom he had three sons. The Countess 
died in 1780, and the Earl married, 2udly, 24th Oct., 17H8, Charlotte, widow of 
Thomas Moore, Esq. ; andSrdly, 19th Oct., 1790, Barbara, daughter of the Kev. 
Doctor Luko Godfrey. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 61 

a request, and beg if it will in the least embarrass you 
that it may drop here. I know the great regard and 
friendship you have for Lady Donegal may make it a 
tender point, but if it can be done without distressing 
you, I shall be obliged and made happy beyond ex- 
pression. Your ladyship is too well acquainted with the 
real merit and uncommon misfortunes of Dr. and Mrs. 
Sandford to make it necessary for me to repeat the par- 
ticulars of their difficulties and undeserved disappoint- 
ments. A relief at this critical time would double the 
blessing which a promise of preferment (as soon as a con- 
venient opportunity offers) would be. I shall be distrest 
till I know whether your great indulgence can excuse 
the liberty I have taken, which my anxiety for friends 
so dear to me has urged me to. May I beg my compli- 
ments to Lady Donegal; I must regret the very short 
stay she made in Ireland. The Dean's best respects and 
Mrs. Sandford's attend your Ladyship and Miss F. 
Howard, to whom I desire my affectionate compliments. 

I am, madam, 

Your ladyship's most obliged, and 
Most affectionate and obedient humble servant, 

M. DELANY. 



TJte Countess Cowper to Miss Dewes. 

Richmond, June 27th, 1766. 

MY DEAR Miss DEWES, 

I have this moment received your love letter, and 
am very glad to hear you got well home. 

I cannot express how much I miss you and regret your 
absence, mais vous etes toujours presente a mon esprit ; 
and I was better than my word on Monday, for I only 



62 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

promised to think of my dear girl at eight at night, and 
I thought of her from morning till night, and slept very 
indifferently. The night before I wished to have you come 
to my bedside in the morning, but feared it would be 
too attendrissant but I drank your health in my nasty 
draught ! 

In the evening came my sister Tweeddale, the little 
Marquis, 1 and Lady Grace, Lady Montague (who will 
have her name spelt so), and Mrs. Clutterbuck. 

Tuesday I spent at Wimbledon Park, and met His 
Majesty between eight and nine in the morning riding 
in Eichmond Park, attended only by two grooms. I 
stopped my post-chaise, and he was so gracious as to 
come up and speak to me, and looked very hard at 
Henzey, who was with me Such a look would have 
made your Anne very happy, though I imagine she would 

not exchange one of E 's for it ! Wednesday Lady 

Louisa Manners 2 came here in the morning and I dined 
at Gifford Lodge, and went in the evening to Hampton 
Court, and found Lord and Lady Delawarr 3 at home. 
He as droll as ever. Mrs. Clutterbuck was with me. 
She dined here yesterday, and in the evening came Lady 
Howe* and her daughter, and Lord John Murray 5 

1 John, 4th Marquis of Tweeddale, died in 1762, and was succeeded by his 
only surviving son, George, 5th Marquis, who died a minor in 1770. 

2 Lady Louisa Manners was the eldest daughter of Lionel, Earl of Dysart. 
She married, in 1765, John Manners, of Grantham Grange, Esq., Co. Lincoln. 

3 John, 2nd Earl Delawarr. He married Mary, daughter of Lieut.-Gen. 
Wynyard, and died 22nd Nov., 1777. 

4 Mary, wife of Richard, 4th Viscount Howe, who for his gallant naval 
services was created Viscount and Earl Howe. They bad three daughters, 
the eldest, Sophia Charlotte, inherited the Barony of Langar. 

6 Lord John Murray, eldest sou (by his second marriage) of John, 1st Duke 
of Atholl. Lord John was a general officer, and died in 1787, leaving an only 
daughter, married to Edward Foxlow, Esq., who assumed the surname of 
Murray. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 63 

brought his little girl. Winter is returned ; but I still 
hold my resolution of setting out on Monday morning 
early. I had wrote thus far yesterday, but Lady Jane 
Scott 1 came in and prevented me finishing my letter. 
Lady Weymouth is come before her time and brought 
two dead boys. Poor Lady Anne Jekyll 2 is dead after 
a few days illness ; she will be a great loss to her daugh- 
ter. I am getting into a scrawl, it is only Mrs. Delany 
that can write three or four sides of paper well ! but I must 
and I will make my best compliments to Mr. Dewes 
and Mr. Court, not forgetting my chaplain? I hope 
you found your charming Mrs. Mead well, without the 
usual remedy I I imagine myself acquainted with her, 
but think she must never be acquainted with me after 
your partial description and high painting. The lines at 
the bottom of your letter are very pretty, but I hope to 
keep a place for you in heaven, for I ought to go first, 
not from desert, but course of years. I hope we shall 
meet again in the month of August ; and " is not that an 
ageT" 1 as Mrs. Woffington said formerly, when Sir 
Charles H. W. accused her of having seen Mr. Garrick 
that morning ! 

Adieu ma tres chere, et tres aim able fille, 

Toute a vous, 
G. C. COWPER. 



1 Lady Jane Scott, eldest daughter of Francis, 2nd Duke of Buccleuch, 
bora 1723, died unmarried in 1777. 

2 Lady Anne Jekyll, sister to the Earl of Halifax, died at Dallington, 
near Northampton, 20th June, 1766. 

3 " My chaplain" The Rev. John Dewes. 



64 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Ddany to Bernard Granvttle, Esq. 

Delville, 3rd July, 1766. 

Last Tuesday morning Mrs. Sandford was brought to 
bed of another tine boy, 1 and though she had kept us in 
expectation for above a fortnight every day, at last was 
too quick for the necessary attendants. Thank God 
she is in a fair way at present ; but she gave me no 
small hurry of the spirits. The same day I received a 
letter from the Duchess of Portland, with an account of 
Lady Weymouth's being brought to bed of two dead 
children, which added a little to my nutter, and pre- 
vented my writing till to day. 

Summer seems to be come in good earnest, and I 
hope you enjoy every benefit of it. I fancy Lady 
Weymouth's coming before she was expected may delay 
the Duchess of Portland's visit to Buxton, but I have 
not yet heard ; I desired she would let you know what 
time she proposed being at Calwich. The Dean con- 
tinues pretty well ; soon fatigued with any exercise. I 
can tell you no news ; we are at a dead calm after our 
stormy winter ; a little rolling of the waters to a by- 
stander is more amusing than gliding on so smoothly. 
I seldom go out of the confines of my own garden except 
to Mrs. Hamilton's now and then, and they are very con- 
veniently settled at the nearest part of Dublin to us ; 



1 Daniel Sandford, the second son of the Rev. Daniel Sandford, of Sand- 
ford Hall, Shropshire, and his wife Sarah Chapone. He was born at Delville, 
was a distinguished scholar at Christchurch ; and married Frances Catherine 
Douglas, the daughter of Erskine Douglas, 5th son of Sir Wm. Douglas, of 
Kilhead of the house of Queensberry. Sir Wm. Douglas's great grandson 
succeeded to the Marquisate on the death of the last Duke of Queensberry. 
The Rev. Daniel Sandford became Bishop of Edinburgh in 1808, and died 14th 
January, 1830. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 65 

Summer Hill and Granby Eow. I hope your neighbour 
Rousseau entertains you ; is he pleased with his own 
Hermitage ? it is romantic enough to satisfy a genius, 
but not so well suited to a sentimental philosopher as to 
a cynic, it is rather too rude, and I should imagine Cal- 
wich much better fitted for that purpose ! My dear bro- 
ther, accept of all kind wishes from hence, and so adieu. 

Rousseau was at this period living at Wootton, where Mr. 
Davenport was very kind to him, at which time Mr. Granville 
also became very intimate with Rousseau. 



The Countess Cowper to Miss Dewes. 

Durham, July 5, 1766. 

I am sure my dear girl will be impatient to hear how 
I got here. I sat out at six o'clock on Monday morning 
from sweet Richmond, breakfasted with Lady Frances 
Bulkeley, 1 delivered your letter to Lady Mary Mor- 
daunt, 2 who was pleased with the caul, dined at Bugden, 
and lay at Stilton ; should have reached Stamford that 
night, but had tired horses one post ; breakfasted there 
on Tuesday. I did not climb trees, but I was very near 
swimming at Carlton, the waters being out. I asked 
the post-boy whether the water was deep, he said no, 
" only a slap," but it proved such a " slap " as half filled 
my chaise ! I caught up my feet so quick that my shoes 
were not wet through, but my petticoats were, and I was 



1 Lady Frances Bulkeley was the eledst daughter of Charles Mordaunt, 4th 
Earl of Peterborough. She married the Rev. Samuel Bulkeley of Hatfield. 

2 Lady Mary Mordaunt, second daughter of Charles, 4th Earl of Peterbo- 
rough. She siicceeded, 1814 (on the death of her half-brother Charles Henry, 
5th Earl), to the Barony of Mordaunt of Turvey ; and died in 1819. 

PART II. VOL. I. F 



66 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

i 

obliged to sit in them, but was so lucky as not to catch 
cold. After the water was ladled out of the chaise, 1 I 
got some dry straw and laid at the bottom of the chaise, 
which was not dry when I got here, and when I ar- 
rived at the next stage got out and had hot napkins 
pinned to my petticoats whilst I dined, and lay at Don- 
caster that night. At supper the landlord told me " my 
lads " were so much fatigued they were gone to bed, and 
the next day Cartwright was so knocked up I was forced 
to treat him with post-chaises for four posts. Mrs. 
Godwin / called up every morning upon the road, 
though she slept great part of the way, and often tum- 
bled upon me in the chaise ! I read going up the hills, 
and was neither fatigued nor sleepy, and arrived here 
fresh enough for a ball (had not my dancing days been 
over) by twelve at noon on Thursday. In all my diffi- 
culties I remembered you, and thought it might have been 
worse, and was quite a philosopher. I saw at York the 
Minster and assembly-room, I go to the cathedral twice 
a day.- Without you bring Mr. C. M. with you to 
Richmond I fear I shall not go often to church there, 
for I shall think the reader and preacher more humdrum 
than ever 

The Dean (of Durham) is as fond of music as I am, c'est 
beaucoup dire ! Poor Mrs. Cowper is laid up with the gout: 
Miss Townshend does the honours for her very well. 

My best compliments and thanks to your good father, 
for indulging me with your return to Richmond, where 
I shall carry you with a hearty good will. My compli- 
ments also to Mr. Court and Mr. John Dewes. I fear 

1 " Chaise " This carriage would now be called a chariot, and was not 
understood to mean a hack chaise, as was the case in the present century. 



OF MBS. DELANY. 67 

m 

Mrs. Mead will take an aversion to me for robbing her 
of you again so soon. Many thanks for your agreeable 
letter, which Mrs. Cowper delivered to me as soon as I 
arrived. 

I met a gentlewoman upon the road who said I " did 
not look as if I had come so long a journey," and I 
believe thought as your brother did at Richmond. 

Durham is a much finer county than I expected, but 
the town abominable. Mrs. Cowper desires her compli- 
ments to you, and I am, my dearest girl, 
Your affectionate mamma and 

Humble servant, 

G-. C. COWPER. 



Mrs. Delany to the Viscountess Andover. 

Delville, 15th July, 1766. 

I am too much obliged to dear Lady Andover for her 
letters of the 28th June and 4th of this month, to delay 
my acknowledgments one moment longer, though I 
have but a very little time, having had my morning 
harassed with business. How excessive good your 
ladyship has been to recommend my petition to Lord 
Donegal in so kind a manner. I cannot, notwithstand- 
ing the cautious answer, give up the cause, and espe- 
cially as you are so good as to say you will, when an 
opportunity offers, renew the conversation. I should 
imagine it impossible to resist what Lady Andover 
pleaded for, and indeed this is a very extraordinary case, 
and I think at the same time that it would do honour to 
the patronized it will to the patron. Much of my own 

F2 " 



68 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

happiness depends upon it, as my influence has drawn 
them into their present encumbered circumstances, 
making no doubt at the time that the old gentleman 
would have allowed them something till fortune did 
better for them ; but all my hopes and schemes have 
hitherto proved abortive, and so ends this lamentation, 
which I did not design to say a word about when I 
began my letter, but your goodness I fear makes me 
very presuming. My dear Mrs. Sandford is going on 
pretty well, her spirits but indifferent, and mine have 
suffered from . many causes ; one of the principal ones, 
that I must give up all hopes of seeing England this 
year ! 

The Dean has been greatly afflicted by the unexpected 
death of a nephew, a young man of very promising 
hopes, which has greatly sunk him. 

The Duchess of Portland wrote me word that she 
should be very happy to meet your ladyship at Calwich, 
and I supposed by that it had been settled between you. 
My brother also impatiently expects and hopes for that 
honour, and is only concerned that he " shall not be 
able to entertain you as he ought," but he will treat you 
with a sight of Monsieur Rousseau, who is in his neigh- 
bourhood. 

I long to have you see Calwich, and to know how you 
like such scenes of nature. Your Browns, &c., have had 
no business there. 1 fear Lady Weymouth's coming 
before her time will delay, if not put off the Duchess's 
visit to Buxton, which I should be sorry for, as I think 
a month's bathing there might enable her to pass a 
better winter than the last. I congratulate your lady- 
ship on Lady Suffolk's present circumstances, and hope 



OF MRS. DELANY. 69 

most sincerely it will be attended with every felicity 
can be wished. 

I am dear Lady Andover's 

Most obliged, affectionate, and obedient 

M. DELANY. 



Mrs. Delany to the Viscountess Andover. 

Delville, 19th Aug. 1766. 

What can I say to myself (for no apology is necessary 
to your ladyship) for having been so long without 
writing? I have received my punishment by having, 
by that seeming neglect, lost one of the greatest plea- 
sures I now have a relish for. 

Mrs. Sandford has taken up a good deal of my time. 
A friend confined in a weakly way has a large demand 
on one's time, and she has recovered but very slowly. 
I hope she is growing better, but till she has strength 
enough to use exercise. I do not expect she will gain 
much health. She begs her best respects and ac- 
knowledgments to your ladyship and Miss F. Howard 
for your goodness in enquiring after her and her two 
babes. 

I have been happy for ten days past in the company 
of my two eldest nephews. Their father has kindly per- 
mitted them to make me a month's visit, and I rout about 
with them to every place within the compass of a day's 
journey ; and the Dean has exerted himself so much for 
them that I hope we shall both pass the winter in better 
health for it. Three years has made a great progress in 
their lives, and I think improvement. Their good sense 



70 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

simplicity of manners, and excellent principles make me 
so satisfied with them that I don't feel the least mortified 
they are not a, foot taller, and have not the " bon tons" at 
present so much idolized, hut they have, I trust, qualities 
that will make them valuable to their friends and useful 
in the world. Consider, my dear Lady Andover, whose 
children they are, and how long since I saw them, and 
forgive this long harangue, which in truth is more 
natural than polite. 

I think at this moment you may be at Calwich, if you 
have not changed your intention of doing my brother 
that honour, which I know he has expected with im- 
patience, depending on the Duchess of Portland's 
fixing the time most convenient. I rejoice in the good 
weather. The partiality I have for the place and its 
master make me wish it should appear to the best 
advantage ; and is it possible for me to forbear adding 
another wish vain as it is that of being in such a 
loved society. 

The Dean joins with me in respects and every affec- 
tionate wish to Elford. I am, more than I can say, 
Your ladyship's most 

Faithful and obedient, &c., 

M. DEL ANY. 



The Duchess of Portland to Bernard Granville, Esq. 

The Duchess of Portland presents her best compli- 
ments to Mr. Granville, returns him many thanks for 
liis allowing her to wait on him where she spent her 



OF MRS. DELANY. 71 

time so agreeably, and which made her regret her being 
obliged to stay so short a time. She hopes he is per- 
fectly well, and begs leave to present her compliments to 
Lady Cowper and to Mr. and Miss Dewes. 

She has sent a few plants to Mr. Rousseau, and some 
specimens; will send the books as soon as she goes to 
London. She found the great tufted wood vetch growing 
upon a high bank, the left-hand of a high sandy hill 
going from Oakover to Bradley Ash Park. She begs 
Mr. Granville will make her compliments acceptable to 
Mr. Rousseau. 

Buxton, August 25, 1766. 



Rousseau to Bernard Granville, Esq., Calwicli. 

Ce Mardi Matin. 

Je crois, Monsieur, la tisanne du medecin espagnol 
meilleure et plus saine que le bouillon rouge du medecin 
franfais ; la provision de miel n'en est pas moins bonne, 
et si les apothicaires fournissoient d'aussi bonnes drogues 
que vous ils auroient bientot ma pratique ; mais badi- 
nage a part, que j'aye avec vous un moment d'explication 
serieuse. 

Jadis j'aimois avec passion la liberte, 1'egalite, et 
voulant vivre exempt des obligations dont je ne pouvois 
m'acquitter en pareille monnoye, je me refusois aux ca- 
deaux memes de mes amis, ce qui m'a souvent attire bien 
des querelles. 

Maintenant, j'ai change de gout, et c'est moins la 
liberte que la paix que j'aime : je soupire incessamment 
apres elle, je la pre'fere desormais a tout ; je la veux a 



72 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

tout prix avec mes amis, je la veux meme avec mes en- 
nemis s'il est possible. J'ai done resolu d'endurer desor- 
mais des uns tout le bien, et des autres tout le mal qu'ils 
voudront me faire, sans disputer, sans m'en defendre, et 
sans leur resister en quelque facon que ce soit. Je me 
livre a tous pour faire de moi, soit pour, soit centre, en- 
tierement a leur volonte : ils peuvent tout, hors de m' en- 
gager dans une dispute, ce qui tres-certainement ne 
m'arrivera plus de mes jours. Vous voyez, Monsieur, 
d'apres cela combien vous avez beau jeu avec moi dans 
les cadeaux continuels qu'il vous plait de me faire ; mais 
il faut tout vous dire ; sans les refuser je n'en serois pas 
plus reconnoissant que si vous ne m'en faisez aucun. Je 
vous suis attache, Monsieur, et je benis le ciel dans mes 
miseres de la consolation qu'il m'a menagee en me don- 
nant un voisin tel que vous : mon cceur est plein de 1'in- 
teret que vous voulez bien les supprimer desormais. Vous 
voila bien averti, Monsieur; vous savez comment je 
pense, et je vous ai parle tres-serieusement. 

Du reste, votre volonte soit faite, et non pas la mienne 
vous serez toujours le maitre d'en user comme il vous 
plaira. 

Le terns est bien froid pour se mettre en route. Ce- 
pendant, si vous etes absolument resolu de partir, recevez 
tous mes souhaits pour votre bon voyage et pour votre 
prompt et heureux retour. Quand vous verrez Madame 
la Duckesse de Portland faites-lui ma cour, je vous 
supplie ; rassurez-la sur 1'etat de Mylord Mareschal. 
Cependant, comme je ne seroi parfaiteinent rassure moi- 
meme que quand j'auroi de ses nouvelles, sitot que j'en 
auroi recu j'auroi 1'honneur d'en faire part a Madame 
la Duchesse. Adieu, Monsieur; derechef bon voyage, 



OF MRS. DELANY. 73 

et souvenez-vous quelquefois du pauvre hermite, votre 
voisin, 

BOUSSEAU. 

Vous verrez sans doute votre aimable niece. Je (the 
manuscript torn here) (vous) prie de lui parler quelque- 
fois du captif qu'elle a (torn) dans ses chaines, et qui 
s'honore de les porter. 

The greater part of Rousseau's letters are without date. In 
the Life of Rousseau, by Lord Brougham, he says, " It is only 
another instance of Kousseau's inattention to dates that he 
totally omits the several years passed at Neufchatel when he 
speaks of Montmorency as his constant residence, and represents 
it as such after his visit to England in 1766." 



A joint letter from the Countess Cowper and Miss Dewes to Bernard 
Oranville, Esq. 

DEAR SlR, Althorpe, Thursday, August 28, 1766. 

We arrived here (after a very good journey) a 
little before eleven this morning had very good horses 
and drivers all the way, only at Leicester they gave my 
Lady Cowper a postilion with one eye, and a horse with 
three legs, but when he got warm he found a fourth, and 
the boy drove as well as if he had had two eyes. We got 
to Market Haverborough at three o'clock, and should have 
come on to Althorpe last night only the road they said 
was bad. We saw the old woman (Mrs. Sallis), who is 
1 00 in February ; she hears well and appears to have all 
her senses except seeing. Who should come into the 
inn at eight o'clock but the Duchess of Portland ; she 
came from Kedlestone that morning, and seemed vastly 



74 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

glad to meet us ; we spent the evening together. She 
inquired much after you, and desired her compliments. 
I told her the plants came safe, and that you and 
Monsieur Rousseau were extremely obliged to her for 
them, and that I believed the latter intended making his 
own acknowledgments to her Grace. But I can proceed 
no further without making my acknowledgments to you 
for all your goodness to me while I was at Calwich, and 
do me the justice to think what a heart filled with gra- 
titude would say could it find proper words to express 
itself. I beg my kind love to my brother. My Lady 
Cowper desires to be remembered to him, but designs 
making her compliments to you herself, which will 
deprive me of the pleasure of writing a longer letter, but 
cannot conclude without begging the favour of you to 
make my best compliments to Monsieur Rousseau, and 
am, dear sir, 

Your most dutiful niece, and obedient servant, 

M. DEWES. 

I am quite in raptures with Althorpe. 

I cannot even trust Miss Dewes to make my acknow- 
ledgments for the agreeable days I passed at Calwich. 
Were I to say all I think of that sweet place, and of the 
proprietor, it might appear like flattery, so I will only 
add that the charms of the former, and the attentions of 
the latter, were not thrown away upon me, and I shall 
ever retain a pleasing remembrance of them. 

a. c. c. 

Mr. Granvifle introduced Rousseau to the Duchess of Portland, 
whom Rousseau attended on an expedition to explore the Peak, 
where the Duchess went in search of wild plants. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 75 

Mrs. Delany to the Viscountess Andover. 

Delville, 4th Sept., 1766. 

How has my dear Lady Andover gratified me in her 
very obliging account of Calwich and its inhabitants ! I 
am sure you conferred honour and happiness in the visit 
you made there, and though short it will leave a lasting 
and pleasing remembrance behind it. I must confess, 
though with some shame, that I did not fully enjoy my 
brother's great satisfaction. To have made one of such 
a society was too desirable not to feel a sensible regret 
that I was an exile ! However I had no small consola- 
tion in the company of my two nephews, who have been 
with me near three weeks, and propose staying ten days 
or a fortnight longer. I have exerted all my feeble 
powers to entertain them as well as I could, and am 
flattered with the delight they seem to take in all the 
places I have shown them, which for the time have 
been numerous. My greatest satisfaction is in finding 
them very sensible and very good, and that they have 
made a good use of their time. The eldest, who has had 
many more advantages, I think an extraordinary young 
man, great abilities and great application ; but as to the 
polish of the world, it has not yet come in their way, but 
they are naturally civil and unaffected. The scheme of 
surprising me with the amendments of Calwich has shut 
up their mouth. Alas ! when may that day come ? 
Feed me with it, therefore, a little, my dear Lady An- 
dover that I may not be quite starved. 

I rejoice that our amiable friend has found so much 
benefit from Buxton, and hope no perplexities will undo 
what she has gained so dearly, for by all accounts Buxton 



76 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

is a shocking place ; but the blessing of health is worth a 
state of trial. 

May I beg to know how she liked my niece ? I know 
the fear of hurting me will keep her from sincerely 
telling me her opinion if she disapproves ; but how can 
I be of service (to a creature so dear to me) at this 
distance if uninformed of her manner and behaviour. A 
hint to her might be of the greatest service, and I should 
endeavour to do it in such a manner as would not appear 
like the observation of any particular person. Your 
sensibility and maternal tenderness will make you feel 
my meaning and anxiety on so interesting a point, and 
the friendship you honour me with will apologise for an 
openness of heart that is the strongest proof of mine I 
can give. 

I am glad you have seen the Rousseau ; he is a genius 
and a curiosity, and his works extremely ingenious, as I 
am told, but to young and unstable 'minds / believe 
dangerous, as under the guise and pomp of virtue he does 
advance very erroneous and unorthodox sentiments ; it 
is not the " bon tons " who say this, but I am too near the 
day of trial to disturb my mind with fashionable whims. 
Lady Kildare 1 said she would " offer R. an elegant retreat 
if he would educate her children /" I own I widely differ 
with her ladyship, and would rather commit that charge 
to a downright honest parson, I mean as far as to religious 
principles, but perhaps that was a part that did not fall 
into her scheme at all. You see, my dear Lady Andover, 
what rust I am gathering -by lying by, I wish it may 



" Lady Kildare." Emilia Mary, daughter of Charles, Duke of Richmond 
and Lennox, and wife of James, Marquis of Kildare, afterwards created, 26th 
Nov., ITGfi, Duke of Leinster. 



OP MRS. DELANY. 77 

have the merit of an old coin, and be a testimony of some 
real value, tho' I feel too much my own insignificance to 
think that can be the case. How I have run on ! Burn 
this rig-me-role instantly, I entreat your ladyship. I am 
sick with the account of Swift's last volume ! The pub- 
lisher has done basely, for he promised a friend of mine, 
who insisted on the letters of Mrs. Pendarves being 
delivered to him, that if any were found they should It 
is a serious vexation. Mrs. Sandford is indifferent, and 
in trouble about her last little boy, who is in a precarious 
way. Her eldest is indeed a lovely child. 

The best respects of Delville salute Elford. I will not 
suffer my pen to scratch a word more than that I am, 
madam, 

Your ladyship's most affectionate, 

And most obedient humble servant, 

M. DELANY. 

Most of Monsieur Eousseau's works are translated. 
Did I beg the receipt of the purple paint for water 
colours ? Surely your ladyship cannot be so barbarous 
as to defer writing a post for want of a frank ? 



Rousseau to Bernard Granville, Esq., Calwich. 

A Wootton ce Vendredi soir. 

J'etois, Monsieur, extremement inquiet de votre de- 
part mercredi au soir, mais je me rassuroi le jeudi matin, 
le jugeant absolument impraticable ; j'etois bien eloigne 
de penser meme que vous le voulussiez essayer. De grace, 
ne faites plus de pareils essais jusqu'a ce que le terns soit 



78 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

bien remis et le chemin bien battu. Que la neige qui 
vous retient a Calwich ne laisse-t-elle une gallerie jus- 
qu'a Wootton, j'en ferois souvent la mienne ; mais dans 
1'etat oil est maintenant cette route, je vous conjure de 
ne la pas tenter, ou je vous proteste que le lendemain du 
jour ou vous viendrez ici, vous me verrez chez vous quel- 
que terns qu'il fasse. Quelque plaisir que j'aye a vous 
voir, je ne veux pas le prendre an risque de votre sante. 

Je suis tres-sensible a votre bon souvenir, je ne vous 
dis rien de vos envois. Seulement, comrae les liqueurs ne 
sont point a mon usage et que je n'en bois jamais, vous 
permettrez que je vous renvoye les deux bouteilles, afin 
qu'elles ne soient pas perdues. J'enverois chercher du 
mouton s'il n'y avoit tant de viande a mon garde-manger 
que je ne sais plus ou la mettre. Bon jour, Monsieur, 
vous parlez toujours d'un pardon dont vous avez plus de 
besoin que d'envie, puisque vous ne vous corrigez point. 
Comptez moins sur mon indulgence, mais comptez tou- 
jours sur mon plus sincere attachement. 

Je remets a Jean, qui va a Ashburn, une reponse pour 
Lincolnshire, sans savoir pourtant si ma lettre peut aller 
par la poste d' Ashburn, ou s'il faut 1'envoyer par quelque 
autre voye, et s'il y a quelque chose a payer. Je vous 
prie de vouloir bien lui donner la-dessus les instructions 
necessaires. 



JRousseau to Bernard Granville, Esq, t Calivich. 

Ce Lundi inatin. 

Puisque Monsieur Granville m'interdit de lui rendre 
les visites qu'il me fait au milieu des neiges, il permettra 
du moins que j'en voye savoir de ses nouvelles, et com- 



OF MRS. DELANY. 79 

ment il s'est tire de ces terribles chemins. J'espere que 
la neige qui recommence pourra retarder assez son de- 
part pour que je puisse trouver le moment d'aller lui 
souhaiter un bon voyage. Mais que j'aye ou non le plaisir 
de le revoir avant qu'il parte, mes plus tendres vceux 
1'accompagneront toujours. 

E. 



The Duchess of Portland to Bernard Granville, Esq. 

Bulstrode, Sept. 18, 1766. 

The Duchess of Portland presents her compliments to 
Mr. Granville, and should not have so long delayed her 
thanks to Mr. Granville and M. de Rousseau if she had 
been able, but she has been laid up with a violent cold, 
which she has just got rid of. She hopes to hear Mr. 
Granville is perfectly well, and had the pleasure of hearing 
Mrs. Delany was so last week. She wishes there was 
anything in this part of the world, plants, birds, or 
animals, that would be agreeable to Mr. Granville ; to obey 
his commands would give her the greatest pleasure. 
She had a most delightful letter from M. Eousseau ; she 
begs Mr. Granville will accept her best acknowledgments, 
for by the first opportunity she will send the book to 
Calwich. If Monsieur Eousseau cannot read my letter 
I must beg you will tell him I have sent him Petiver, 1 
in which are several engravings of English plants from 
Eay. 



i " Petiver" apothecary to the Charter House, and author of several bota- 
nical works. 



80 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

1776. 
[Part of a letter.] 

Now for a word about Monsieur Rousseau, who 
has gained so much of your admiration. His writings 
are ingenious, no doubt, and were they weeded from the 
false and erroneous sentiments that are blended through- 
out his works (as I have been told), they would be as 
valuable as they are entertaining. I own I am not a fair 
disputant on this subject from my own knowledge 
of his works, as I avoid engaging in books from whose 
subtlety I might perhaps receive some prejudice, and I 
always take an alarm when virtue in general terms is the 
idol, without the support of religion, the only foundation 
that can be our security to build upon ; that great plau- 
sibility and pomp of expression is deluding, and requires 
great accuracy of judgment not to be imposed upon by 
it. I therefore think it the wisest and safest way to 
avoid those snares that I may not have strength enough 
to break when once entangled in them. I remember a 
wise maxim of my Aunt Stanley's when I first came 
into the great world : " avoid putting yourself in danger, 
fly from temptation, for it is always odds on the tempter's 
side." I had much more to say to you, my dear, but 
think I have already tried your patience, and I will give 
you some rest from my reflections, well persuaded your 
own good sense, with mature consideration, will point 
out the good, and make you reject the bad as soon as 
you distinguish them : a diffidence of ourselves, and know- 
ledge how weak we really are through human infirmities 
will make us cautious not to rely too much on our own 



OF MRS. DEL ANY. 81 

strength. Were you not rejoiced to hear of Miss K. 
Chapone's marriage with Mr. Boyd P 1 What a provi- 
dential and great match for her ! Besides his having at 
least 9000 a year, he is an excellent man, and has 
chosen her on the best principle, that of her being really 
a valuable woman. This has been for some months in 
agitation, and at his request kept secret till they were 
just going to be married. She was very ill, and a good 
deal perplexed whilst the affair was in agitation, which 
hindered her writing but seldom even to her sister. We 
are all pretty well, and send love and good wishes to your 
dear self and our best respects to Lady Cowper. Adieu 
my most dear niece. Your brother and Dr. Sandford 
returned from Swainston very well. Your letter was 
received with joy, and will be answered soon; hope 
Lord Spencer is quite well again, and that you did not 
hurry from Althorp. 

Your brothers talk of leaving me the latter end of this 
month ; you may be sure they shall not be suffered to 
set out in bad weather. 

Is not Althorp charming ? Oh, the pictures ! Pray 
make my best compliments to Lord and Lady Spencer, 
and to Mrs. Pointz. 



Rousseau to Bernard Qranville, Esq. 

Wootton. Ce Samedi 3. 

Je suis fache, Monsieur, que le terns ni ma sante ne 
me permettent pas d'aller vous rendre mes devoirs et 



1 Catherine, second daughter of the Rev. John Chapone, married, 1st Aug. 
1766, John Boyd, Esq., who was created a Baronet, 2nd June, 1775. 
PART II. VOL. I. G 



82 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

vous faire xnes remercimens aussitot que je le desirois. 
Mais en ce moment, extremement incommode, je ne 
seroi de quelque jours en etat de faire ni meme de rece- 
voir des visites. Soyez persuade, Monsieur, je vous prie, 
que sitot que mes pieds pourront me porter jusqu'a vous 
ma volonte m'y conduira. Je vous fais, Monsieur, mes 
tres-humbles salutations. 

EOUSSEAU. 



Rousseau to Bernard Granville, Esq., Culwich. 

Ce Dim : apres midy. 

J'aurois grand envie, Monsieur, d'aller encore vous 
gronder, quoique je voye combien cela est inutile, mais 
le temps ni mon etat ne me le permettent pas quant a 
present. J'aspire au moment d'aller faire cette promenade 
pour reprendre un peu de bonne humeur ; car je vous 
jure, Monsieur, en sincerite de coeur qu'il ne reste de 
doux momens dans ma vie que ceux que je passe aupres 
de vous. 



Rousseau to Bernard OranviUe, Esq. 

Ce Samedi matin. 

Rousseau fait ses complimens a Monsieur Granville 
sur son heureuse arrivee, et ses remercimens sur son bon 
souvenir et sur son envoi. II aura 1'honneur de le voir le 
plutot qu'il lui sera possible, et a en attendant celui de 
le saluer tres-humblement. 



OF MBS. DELANY. 83 

Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Delville, 16th Oct., 1766. 

Thanks to you, my dearest Mary, for your kind letter 
of the 30th of September ; it will not now be long before 
you have the pleasure of seeing your brothers. I am 
sure they will do me justice and tell you how often and 
how earnestly I wished to see you here, though that is 
needless ; you know my heart and how much you pos- 
sess it. I am happy beyond expression to find the 
mutual friendship that subsists among you ; no friends 
can be so truly depended upon as relations, (if they are 
worthy and sincere,) their connections the same, and if 
they have generous and enlarged minds, the happiness 
of any one communicates itself to the rest. Long may 
you, my dear niece, enjoy the happiness of such brothers : 
sensible of each others merit, "paying and still owing" 
WJiat a course of love and friendship does this recall to 
my mind, and how many tender pangs it renews ! But 
yet, I cannot retract from wishing you the bliss of such 
tender friendships for we are to be thankful for blessings 
we have enjoyed, and endeavour (though the task is 
difficult) to resign them properly, when the Giver of all 
good gifts withdraws them. 

My dear niece, don't let my not coming to England 
distress you ; I am sensible of your goodness to me, and 
hope and know you are convinced that it would be a 
real happiness to me to be in the way of doing you any 
service. Providence has for the present ordered it other- 
wise ; but I trust your own good heart and principles 
will make you pass through this life with honour to your- 
self and your family. You are now with a very sensible, 



84 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

kind, obliging, and experienced friend, and will, I am 
sure, make use of every opportunity of improvment that 
comes in your way; still bearing in view the crown 
prepared for those who perform their duty in this world ; 
and though I do not recommend any methodistical self- 
denial of all the good things of the world, I recommend 
such a moderate enjoyment of them as becomes a rational 
creature, and which I am sure is all you wish to do. 

If I could get a good tenant for my house for a year 
I should be glad ; I would not let it under two hundred 
and fifty pounds a year and if taken only for a quarter of 
a year would not take less than one hundred as it would 
not be worth my while. ' Mr. Boyde has desired, if I 
don't get a tenant for a longer time, that he may have 
it for January, February, and March. If Lady Cowper 
had any thoughts of being in town I should have been 
happy surely in accommodating her without any terms. I 
have got a pound of such knotting thread as I make use 
of; but if it is too coarse let me know, and I will send 
you some finer ; I can have it of all prices, and think it 
very good ; this is six shillings a pound English. I will 
send it the first opportunity. 

I am glad the Duchess of Queensberry remembered 
me, pray make my best compliments when you see her, 
and tell her if she will write to me I will never torment 
her again ; but I sincerely wish to know how she does, and 
" if she cares at all for me ?" I shall be impatient to know 
how Lord Spencer does? don't omit giving me an 
account whenever you write. I always thought Lady 
Spencer an amiable woman, and am glad you see her in 
the same light. Observe that I have twice the number 
of words in my lines that you have in yours ; you would 



OF MRS. DELANY. 85 

make an excellent attorney's clerk were you to be paid 
by the line, but it is not fair unless you bestowed as 
many pages as they do in their parchments. 

The lodging Mrs. Donnellan and I once had at Rich- 
mond was out of the town, near the river, a little, neat, 
single house, but I cannot exactly describe the spot it 
was very pleasant, the end nearest Ham. The Duchess of 
Portland says she had the pleasure of meeting you on the 
road, and hopes to see you at Richmond, for Lady Cowper 
pressed her very obligingly to come. I believe Mr. G. 
is very well satisfied with you, though I don't wonder 
you should sometimes think his behaviour strange ; he 
seems much pleased with Lady Cowper's and your visit. 
I find he is gone to Scarborough ; he owns to me he has 
not been well, and I can't help being uneasy about him. 

Why have you not told us of the man that tames the 
bees, who was at Wimbledon when you were there ; pray 
give a very particular account of him. 



Mrs. Delany to Mr? Bernard Dewes. 

Delville, 16th Oct., 1766. 

Yesterday I had the pleasure of receiving my dear 
Bernard's letter of the 4th instant, the only letter that 
has come from Welsbourne since we parted; though I am 
sure Court has written, as he promised he would as soon 
as he got home. You may believe so long a silence could 
not but give some anxiety, though I acquitted you 
both of any neglect, but charged it on the post, which I 



1 The word " Esquire" was seldom or ever used in the superscriptions of 
letters of this period unless the person addressed had landed property of his 
own, independent of his father, to a considerable amount. 



86 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

am sure will prove the case. I am glad you had the 
satisfaction of finding your father and brother John 
well. Mrs. Sandford but so so ; she misses you ex- 
tremely, though her ill health did not permit her to 
have as much of your company as she wished to have 
enjoyed. Your friend Dr. Sandford has had a long and 
severe fit of the asthma, and is still very bad, though he 
goes about, and is now gone with his wife and Tommy 
to take the air. Tommy as lovely as when you saw 
him, and every day increases that pleasure which you 
so justly observe " must attend the progressive improve- 
ment of his understanding ;" he can, when he pleases, 
walk the length of the drawing room, balancing his little 
arms like a rope-dancer. Danny 1 grows very sprightly, 
and loses every day something of the golden hue he 
possessed when you were here, and is a very pretty little 
babe. As to my own health, I have reason to be very 
thankful it is so good. Friends in Granby Row and 
Summer Hill all pretty well. No end of kind inquiries 
about you and regrets for your absence. Mr. Edward 
Hamilton still in Swainston, doing all his good nature 
dictates to amuse his sister, who is very reasonable, and 
complies with everything she is desired to do, but still 
sad at heart, and not as well in health as her friends 
wish her to be, tho' time, I hope, will befriend her ; it 
is her first loss, and a very tender one. If my nephew 
John is unwilling to increase his number of friends and 
well-wishers I give him warning not to come to Ireland, 
for all your friends here are so disposed to a brother of 
yours that it will be impossible for him to escape the 
snare. 

1 " Danny " Daniel Sandford, afterwards Bishop of Edinburgh. 



OP MRS. DELANY. 87 

We breakfasted at the Lucan Cottage last Thursday. 
Mrs. Sandford went with us ; the day unfavourable ; 
but the place and people are pleasant in all weathers. 
The Perrys 1 are in the county Limerick on a visit. 

Lord Bristol 2 does not come till next spring. .Revolu- 
tions are so frequent that by that time somebody else 
may be named. 

The building has gone on very slowly disappoint- 
ment of bricks but now it is I hope in good train ; a 
letter from Mr. Griffith mentions a long box with two 
padlocks, and another box, directed, he says, with a 
woman's hand, and he concludes they belong to a Mrs. 
Blackburne, now in Ireland, and daily expected in 
London. I think he is too much a " vellum " not to be 
cautious, and will not send them out of the house at a 
venture ; I shall write this post to inform him who they 
belong to. I have got a beautiful kitten ; had it a black 
nose it would rival the late Kitty of unfortunate 
memory. 

M. DELANY. 

" Kitty, of unfortunate memory" was a beautiful tortoiseshell- 
cat, whose portrait from life was painted in oils, by Mrs. Delany, 
playing with a basket of flowers ; the cat was killed by some 
barbarous boys in London. This picture is in the possession of 
the Editor, and the inscription under it is "Kitty Trucidata, 
25th Dec., 1761, JEtat 5 Mense." The cat is as perfectly repre- 
sented as if the painter had never studied anything but animals. 

1 " The Perrys" Elizabeth, daughter of John, Lord Knapton, and widow of 
Robert Hancock, Esq., married, in 1762, Edmund Sexton Pery, Esq., who was 
Speaker of the Irish House of Commons from 1771 to 1785, when he was 
created Viscount Pery. He died in 1806. 

2 George William, 2nd Earl of Bristol. He was appointed Lord Lieutenant 
of Ireland in 1766, but did not go to Ireland. He died unmarried, 18th March, 
1775. 



88 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Delany to the Right Hon. Viscountess Andovcr. 

Delville, 18th Nov., 1766. 

I must congratulate you, my dear Lady Andover, on 
the Duke of Portland's marriage. 1 I think it must be a 
great addition to the happiness- of our excellent friend ; 
and as such give your ladyship true satisfaction. Every- 
body allows the young lady great merit, and that she is 
worthy of her present station. In all probability my 
eyes will never be blessed with seeing their happiness, 
but to hear of it will be a felicity to my declining mo- 
ments ! 

I have been sadly anxious for some time past for my 
dear D.D., he has been very ill, and reduced very low, 
which, to a man of his years, must give cruel apprehen- 
sions ; however, I thank Grod his good constitution has 
at present got the better, and he is as well as he has 
been for some months past. 

I have just been writing my letters of congratulation, 
and my hand feels tired ; for my nerves have been more 
shocked than I thought them capable of, for though my 
heart has felt extreme sorrow, I cannot say my nerves 
were ever so much affected before. Why should I tell 
you this ? It was unawares. And yet, why should I 
not? a sigh relieves an oppressed mind, and it is no 
more than that ; and the communications of friendship 
give that relief which nothing else can ; and I must 
assure dear Lady Andover, after all I have said, that I 
am well in health, and find my spirits returning to their 



1 William Henry Cavendish, 3rd Duke of Portland, married on the 6th of 
November, 1766, the Lady Dorothy Cavendish, only daughter of William 
4th Duke of Devonshire. 



OP MRS. DELANY. 89 

usual state tho' they have also suffered on poor Mrs. 
Sandford's account, who has been very near losing one 
of the best and worthiest of husbands by a violent fit of 
the asthma ; but he is much better. 

It is an age since I heard from you ; but hope soon 
for a cheering line, with a happy account of your own 
health and of those you love. The best respects of 
Delville salute Elford. I am, more than I can say, 
Your ladyship's affectionate and devoted 

M. D. 

May I beg my compliments to Lady Donegal ? 



Rousseau to Bernard GranviUe, Esq., Calwich. 

Ce Mardi apres midi. 

Quoique je sois fort incommode, Monsieur, depuis deux 
jours, je n'aurois assurement pas marchande avec ma 
sante pour la faveur que vous vouliez me faire, et je me 
preparois a en profiter ce soir : mais voila M. Davenport 
qui m'arrive. 

II a 1'honnetete de venir expres pour me voir. Vous, 
Monsieur, qui etes si plein d'honnetete vous-meme, vous 
n'approuveriez pas qu'au moment de son arrivee je com- 
mencasse par m'eloigner de lui. Je regrette beaucoup 
1'avantage dontje suis prive ; mais du reste je gagneroi 
peut-etre a ne pas me montrer ; si vous daignez parler de 
moi a Madame la Duchesse de Portland avec la meme 
bonte dont vous m'avez donne tant de marques, il vaudra 
mieux pour moi qu'elle me voye par vos yeux que par 
les siens, et je me consoleroi par le bien qu'elle pensera 
de moi de celui que j'auroi perdu moi-meme. 



90 LIFE AND COREESPONDENCE 

Je dois une reponse a un charmant billet, mais 1'espoir 
de la parler me fait diiferer a la faire. Recevez, Monsieur, 
je vous supplie, raes tres-humbles salutations. 

EOUSSEAU. 



The Duchess of Portland to Bernard Granville, Esq. 

Whitehall, Dec. 26, 1766. 

SIR, 

You will pardon the liberty I take in troubling 
you with the enclosed. I was in great hopes to have 
seen you at Bulstrode or London before this time, and it 
would have given me great satisfaction in talking over 
our absent friend who I fear we have little hopes of see- 
ing on this side of the water. I had a letter from her 
two or three posts ago that I own gives me a good deal 
of uneasiness, as I find the thought of parting with the 
house is renewed again. I shall inclose it to you, but 
must beg you will not give the least hint to her that 
you have heard anything of it from me. I hope if the 
house is sold the money will be secured to her, which I 
very much fear will not be the case if it is in her own 
power ! Pardon this trouble from one who is sincerely 
attached to a most amiable and valuable friend, to whom 
I have been under such infinite obligations. 

I hope you enjoy your health excepting colds. I have 
been very well. 

I am, Sir, 
Your most obliged and obedient servant, 

M. CAVENDISH PORTLAND. 

I wish I knew how to send you some gold fish : they 
have been taken out of the pond some time in hopes of 
your coming to town. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 91 

The Countess Cowper to Miss Dewes. 

Richmond, Jan. 4, 1767. 

I have had many letters to answer this last week, so 
deferred thanking my dearest girl for her agreeable letters, 
keeping her pour la bonne bouche. I am sure you pass 
your time in a much pleasanter way at home than you do 
here, so I am the more obliged to you for your company. 
I shall be greatly disappointed if you should not return 
with your brothers. Pray be careful not to catch any 
fresh cold, and dancing is not good for you. If you have 
any pain remains upon your chest the balsam of Tolu 
may be too hot for you. I thought of you all New 
Year's Day. It proved here a stormy night. How did 
the Goody's get home ? I conclude they were merry with 
their good cheer. I am at present confined to my house 
by the ground being covered with snow, for you know I 
hate sliding either for man or beast. I caught the first 
cold I have had this year at church on Christmas day 
the service lasted three hours and a quarter ; but it was 
only a " sniveldom" and is gone off, but I had a few 
extravagancies with it as usual. I am sure you will be 
sorry to hear that my fisherman's poor little boy, whom 
he used to bring to his boat, is dead of the small pox. 

The Duchess of Portland has sent me a dozen gold fish 
great and small, which I have put into the bason in the 
little garden. Mrs. Jeffreys has bought me a very 
elegant shuttle 1 for two guineas. The General and Mrs. 
Fitzwilliam 2 talk of staying at Richmond till next month. 



1 " A very elegant shuttle" a knotting-shuttle. 

2 The Hon. George Fitzwilliam, son of William, 3rd Earl Fitzwilliam, , 
a general in the army. He died 8th May, 1786. e*itj &0 twt*v^t/VVAJLd * 



92 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The Holman family are gone, and the Wynns going. On 
New Year's day, in the evening Lord Montague 1 came 
alone, and spent part of the evening with me, a tete- 
a-tete. I played upon the guitar, and sang to him. He 
was quite alive I assure you, though " fourscore struck " 
(as the Duchess of Marlborough used to say). I wish we 
may not be talked of I I hope Captain Mead has left his 
amiable wife free from all incumbrances. My compli- 
ments to Mr. Dewes and your agreeable brothers. Pray 
tell poor good Ann, that I wish her a happy new year. 
I conclude she has passed a merry Christmas with you. 
Lady Tweeddale is gone to town. What did the Duchess 
of Guilford 2 die of? Mr. Finch died 3 suddenly on Christ- 
mas day. I have mourned for him this week. When 
the powder mills blew up at Hounslow it shook this 
house greatly, enough to waken me ! it was but six 
o'clock in the morning. Puff immediately made her 
retreat under the bed, I am sorry to tell you she has laid 
aside all your documentations and is as noisy as ever. 
Adieu my sweet girl. You will at your return find me, 
as you left me, 

Most affectionately yours, 

Gr. C. COWPER. 



1 John Montague, only son of John, 4th Earl of Cardigan, was created 
Baron Montagu of Boughton, 8th March, 1762. He died unmarried n the 
lifetime of his father, in 1770. 

3 Lady Guilford died at her seat in Kent, 17th December, 1766. 

8 Right Hon. Wm. Finch, brother and heir apparent to the Earl of 
Winchelsea. Died December 25th, 1766. His first wife was Lady Anne 
Douglas, daughter of James, 2nd Duke of Queensbury, and his second wife, 
Charlotte, daughter of Thomas, Earl of Pomfret, and sister to Lady Cowpcr's 
step-mother. 



*? 



OF MRS. DELANY. 93 



The Countess Cowper to Miss Dewes. 

Richmond, Jan. 31, 1767. 

Many thanks to my dearest girl, for her agreeable 
letters, and I flatter myself nothing will prevent my 
having the happiness of seeing her in March, which will 
make it as pleasant to me as May. I am sorry you could 
not send up the hair, the motto I fear will be too partial. 1 
The locket is done, and I think it is pretty, and I had 
proposed to have had it conveyed to you on the 22nd 
of next month. Your brother Bernard (who is all atten- 
tion), has sent me a catalogue of a sale of fine Japan that 
is to be next week in the City, but as there is not 
any scarlet japan amongst it, I will not be tempted. 
There was here the 24th instant upon the breaking 
up of the frost a very extraordinary sight, a great body 
of water that had been pent up by the ice beyond King- 
ston came down at once and drove all the ice before it 
with a great noise. Great crowds of people gathered 
upon the banks of the river, and every body expected to 
see my boat-house carried away. Gumbrell, with a very 
melancholy countenance, followed by all his men, came 
running to see the event, but luckily the upper eight 
turned the greater body of ice towards the terrace, which 
it has damaged a good deal, but the repairing that will 
be a trifle in comparison of the expense of the boat- 
house. 

The ice stopped just below Sir Charles Asgill's 2 and 



1 The " motto" alluded to is " Sans Egal," in gold letters round a locket 
in the Editor's possession, in which is Lady Cowper's hair. 

2 Sir Charles Asgill, Alderman and Sheriff of London, was created a Baronet 
by King George III., 16th April, 1761. Sir Charles died in 1778. 



94 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

left the river like a stone-cutter's yard by the heaps of 
ice ; had it gone on with the same violence, they say it 
must have carried away both Kew and Fulham bridges. 
Lord and Lady Spencer, and the Dean and Mrs. Cowper, 
and the Colonel and Miss Townsend, have been here this 
week. I propose going some morning to town. I wrote 
last week a long letter to Mrs. Delany. Pray remember 
what has been may be again, a word to the wise is 
enough. 

My compliments to Mr. Dewes and my chaplain, if 
with you. I hope to see him here in March if he comes 
to town. Adieu, my dear girl ; be assured that I am 
unalterably yours, with the most sincere affection. 

C. COWPER. 



The Countess Cowper to Miss Dewes. 

Richmond, Feb. 15th, 1767. 

My dearest girl's agreeable letters are always very 
acceptable to me. I am now two in her debt. Lady 
Mary Mordaunt came here on the 4th instant, she is in 
very good looks and desires her kind compliments to you. 
We went last Monday morning to town. I went only 
to St James's Place. I sent to Lady Tweeddale to desire 
she would meet me there, but she did not come. Lady 
Shelburne 1 has the measles, but favourably. 

I depend upon your brother John bringing you here 
in March, and I shall have a spare bed for him. Pray 



1 William, 2nd Earl of Shelburne and 1st Marquis of Lansdowne, married, 
1st 1765, the Lady Sophia Carteret, only daughter of Earl Granville by his 
second wife, the Lady Sophia Fermor. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 95 

bring me some dried lavender and roses, for I propose to 
new line my pillow chest, and 1 believe Welsbourne sweets 
are sweeter than any other. I have had my toilet baskets 
new, and have taken the sweets out of the largest bag you 
gave me, to which I have added a little Gros damas, and 
it has been sufficient to line both the baskets. Pray, my 
dear, have you got my black satin masquerade corset ? 
for I wanted to show it to Lady Mary Mordaunt a few 
days ago, and Godwin said you had borrowed it. If you 
have you are very welcome, but I rather think she does 
not know where she has put it, as she has other things to 
think of. Lady Mary and I have been twice at cards at 
Mrs. Fitzwilliam's and have had one party at home. We 
are to go to Mrs. Jeffreys to-morrow. The Earl of liar- 
borough 1 has just wrote to desire Mr. ThirwalTs cha- 
racter. I believe he will do very well there, as perhaps 
he may be allowed to govern, which was not feasible, chez 
moi. All the Earls of Harborough have had some defect. 
This wants head. My poor good Miss Chudleigh has had 
a great loss in her cousin Mr. Merrill, and she is not able 
to come to me yet. My best compliments to the best of 
men, 2 you will easily guess who I mean. All your Rich- 
mond acquaintance are impatient for your return, but no 
one so much so, as your tender affectionate mamma, 

G. C. COWPER. 

I forgot to tell you I had the pleasure of your brothers' 
company at dinner last Friday, they both look well. I 
offered them a bed, but they said they were obliged to be 



1 Bennet, 3rd Earl of Harborough. 
" The best of men," Mr. Dewes. 



96 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

in town very early yesterday morning. Your brother 
Court brought me your narrative of Hume and 
Rousseau's quarrel, and " Cease thy Anguish," which I 
played at sight. When you write to my chaplain? thank 
him for it, though I hope to thank him myself next 
month. A very polite excuse came with it finely wrote, 
and the music wrote en mafare. 



Bousseau to Bernard Granville, Esq. 

A Wootton, le 28 Fev., 1767. 

Que fait mon bon et aimable voisin? Comment se 
porte-t-il ? J'ai appris avec grand plaisir son heureuse 
arrivee a Bath malgre le terns affreux qui ont du tra- 
verser son voyage : mais maintenant comment s'y trouve- 
t-il? La sante, les eaux, les amusemens, comment va 
tout cela? Vous savez, Monsieur, que rien de ce que 
vous touche ne peut m'etre indifferent ; 1'attachement que 
je vous ai voue s'est forme des liens qui sont votre ou- 
vrage : vous vous etes acquis trop de droits sur moi pour 
ne m'en avoir pas un peu donne sur vous, et il n'est pas 
juste que j 'ignore ce qui m'interesse si ve'ritablement. Je 
devrois aussi vous parler de moi, parce qu'il faut nous 
rendre compte de votre bien; mais je ne vous dirois tou- 
jours que les memes choses. Paisible, oisif, souffrant, 
prenant patience, pestant quelquefois contre le mauvais 
terns qui m'empeche d'aller autour des rochers furetant 
des mousses, et contre 1'hiver qui retient Calwich desert 
si longtemps. Amusez-vous, Monsieur, je le desire, mais 



1 " My chaplain" The Rev. John Dewcs, who inherited the Granville taste 
for music, especially that of Handel. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 97 

pas assez pour reculer le terns de votre retour, car ce 
seroit vous amuser a mes depens. 

Mile LeVasseur vous demande la permission de vous 
rendre ici ses devoirs, et nous vous supplions 1'un et 
1'autre d'agreer nos tres-humbles salutations. 

BOUSSEAU. 



Bernard Granvitte, Esq., to Rousseau. 

Monsieur Granville est penetre de la bonte que Mon- 
sieur Eousseau te'moigne pour lui dans son lettre. C'est 
une grande consolation dans ses maux de n'etre point 
oublie par une personne qu'il admire et aime avec la plus 
grande sincerite. 



J. J. Rousseau to the Duchess of Portland. 1 

N'ayant plus de correspondance en Angleterre je suis 
prive des nouvelles de mon ancien et bon voisin, Mon- 
sieur Granville, dont je regretteroi toujours 1'aimable 
societe. Que fait aussi, si j'ose, Madame, vous le de- 
mander, son aimable niece, Miss Dewes, dont vous avez 
voulu bien me donner ci-devant des nouvelles. Elle avait 
des brebis si jeunes 2 qu'elle doit avoir trouve bientot un 
berger qui fit son bonheur. C'est une recompense que 
meritait la charite chretienne avec laquelle elle suportait 



1 This letter is without the direction, but evidently addressed to the 
Duchess of Portland, and sent by her to Mr. Granville, who placed it amongst 
Rousseau's letters to himself. 

2 "Elle avait des brebis si jeunes" alluded to the sheep and lambs that 
Mr. Granville gave his niece, Mary Dewes, and of which she had a little flock 
at Calwich. 

PART II. VOL. I. H 



98 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

les radotages de son " vieux berger" dont le titre n'etoit 
pas moins inutile pour elle que c'est pour vous celui que 
vous m'avez permis de porter. 1 



Rousseau to Bernard GranviUe, Esq. 

Ce Samedi soir. 

Je suis tres-sensible a vos honnetetes, Monsieur, et a 
vos cadeaux, et je le serois encore plus s'ils revenoient 
moins souvent. J'iroi le plustot que le terns me le per- 
mettra vous reiterer mes remercimens et mes reproches. 
Si je pouvois m'entretenir avec votre domestique je lui 
demanderois des nouvelles de votre sante ; mais j'ai lieu 
de presumer qu'elle continue d'etre meilleure. Ainsi 

soit-il. 

J.-J. E. 

In the autumn of 1767, Lord Brougham states that Rousseau 
went to Tyre le Chateau. Howitt, in writing of his visit to 
Wootton, says that " Calwich Abbey, the beautiful residence of 
Mr. Granville, stood at a short distance ;" he mentions " the at- 
tentions paid to Rousseau by Mr. Granville, who acquired a great 
regard for him," and then makes a very natural mistake in the 
wrong inference he deduces from apparent presumptive evidence. 
Howitt alludes to "the celebrated Mrs. Delany" and because 
she was the "sister of Mr. Granville" and much regarded by 
George III. and Queen Charlotte, he concludes she must have 
been the patroness of Rousseau, and that she was his intimate 
friend, and that such being the case it was not wonderful that a 
pension of 100 a year was obtained for him ! It does not 
appear that Mrs. Delany ever saw Rousseau, and her disapproval 
and dread of the influence of his opinions is very evident in 



1 " L* titre," Herbalist to the Duchess of Portland. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 99 

her own letters. Howitt also is in error in stating that Mary 
Cavendish Harley, Duchess of Portland, who wrote to Rousseau, 
was the daughter of the Duke of Devonshire, instead of the 
mother-in-law to Lady Dorothy Cavendish, who married her 
son, the 3rd Duke of Portland, and Howitt therefore concludes 
that Rousseau also commanded all the Duke of Devonshire's in- 
fluence. 



The Countess Courper to Miss Dewes. 

Richmond, March 1, 1767. 

I flatter myself this will be the last letter I shall write 
to my dear girl before I have the happiness of seeing 
her. I did not forget your birthday, and Lady Mary and 
I toasted you. I had a party at home on Tuesday last, 
the usual company, with the addition of Mr. Maiden. 
On Wednesday morning we went to town. It turned 
out such a dibble-dabble, that I only went to my sister 
Tweeddale. We have had March weather before March 
came. The old saying is it " comes in like a lamb and 
goes out like a lion," but as it has now come in like the 
latter, I hope it will go out like the former. (Lady 
Asgill not well.) I fear your brothers went from Bich- 
mond very dry the last time they dined here ; for, being 
accustomed to get up from table as soon as I have dined, 
I recollected after they were gone that I had done so, and 
they were too modest to say anything, though the wine 
was upon the table. 

Mr. Lawton (our reader) has married a widow with 
100 a-year jointure since you went. Lord Montague 
says he is much altered since. Lady Mary Mordaunt 
desires her compliments to you. She has made two 
moss-roses that really surpassed Miss Mary Holman's, 

H 2 



100 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

though they are her coup d'essai. Mr. Merrill has left 
Miss C. 100. She might have had him for better for 
worse. She is not yet able to come to me. 

Mr. Thirwall has declined taking the E. of H.'s ser- 
vice on account of his folly, which I think shows his own, 
as his might have been there overlooked. 
Compliments, &c., 

G. C. COWPER. 



Mrs. Delany to her nephew, the Rev. John Dewes, at Welsbourne. 

Delville, 26th March, 1767. 

MY DEAR NEPHEW, 

I should not have delayed so long acknowledging 

the favour of your letter from Welsbourne, dated the 

31st January, but that I waited to congratulate you on 

your having taken orders, which I now do most sincerely, 

and hope it will not only be the means of honour and 

happiness to you here, but secure you both in a better 

world. I must give up my pleasing hopes of seeing you 

this year, for the still greater satisfaction of your doing 

what is right ; depending on your friendship so far, that 

when it is proper and convenient for you to make me a 

visit, you will do it without further invitation. Your 

father's house cannot be more welcome to you than mine, 

let my habitation be where it will. The Dean of Down 

(who desires his kind service and congratulations on the 

good step you have taken), charges me to assure you the 

same from him. This day he enters into his 83rd year. 

I am sorry you could not procure the translation of 

Monsieur Rousseau's song. Your modest bard need not 

fear any criticisms here to his disadvantage, nor should 



OF MRS. DELANY. 101 

it be seen by anybody else if desired. I have not yet 
been able to get acquainted with your friend Mr. Berke- 
ley, though a fellow- student and friend of his has under- 
taken to introduce him, who is a great-nephew of the 
Dean's, and has almost destroyed himself with study. 
"VVe are trying to repair the injury his health has received 
by rest from study, good air, and gentle exercise. He is 
a very good young man. His name, Luke George. 
Your brothers know him. 

I suppose Councillor Court will be at Welsbourne by 
the time this reaches you. 

I am, my dear and reverend nephew, 

Your most affectionate and humble servant, 

M. DELANY. 



Mrs. Delany to the Viscountess Andover. 

Delville, 2nd April, 1767. 

I was very happy in receiving my dearest Lady An- 
dover's letter of the 16th March, and my acknowledg- 
ments would have flown with the return of the post had 
not a perverse cold made me unfit for such an indulgence. 

I hope Time, that alleviates all sorrows in some de- 
gree, particularly with young people, will relieve Lord 
Suffolk's great distress, 1 and his own good understanding 
will give every assistance in his power ; but that is not 
to be immediately expected, where the heart has been so 
tenderly concerned. 

I am glad the dear little infant 2 is so well, and hope 

1 On the 23rd of January, 1767, the Countess of Suffolk was delivered of a 
daughter, and on the 4th of February, 1767, the Countess of Suffolk died. 

2 Lady Maria Howard, daughter of Lord Suffolk by his first wife, Maria 



102 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

she will in every respect prove a delight to you. Every 
stroke your ladyship feels I take my share of, and was 
much concerned for your loss of so faithful an old friend 
and servant ; but no consolation equals that of a friend's 
resigning life with Christian fortitude and due resig- 
nation ! 

Can my dear Lady Andover think an apology neces- 
sary for opening that heart to me that I admire and love 
so much ? No testimony of friendship is so strong as 
that of confidence and unreserve ; nor can any friend you 
honour with that distinction set a higher value on it 
than I do. 

If the inoculation scheme takes effect, I most heartily 
wish success to it. Its great success is avast encourage- 
ment. I am quite in your ladyship's way of thinking 
about it that it is too nice a point to give one's opinion 
either way. 

You are so good as to inquire about my inmates. I 
wish I could say all were well ; but I hope I may say all 
rather better than when I last wrote to Elford. The 
Dean is apt to be low, and often attacked by his enemy. 
Yet I must confess I have much more reason to be 
thankful he is so well, than to repine at his suffering 
sometimes, which is only in a gentle degree compared to 
what others suffer from the same complaint. A very 
disagreeable affair hangs over our heads, and has been 
hovering ever since we came from England a lawsuit 
continued with our old persecutors, or rather they with 
us, disputing our right to the mortgage of 4000 ad- 



Constantia, daughter of Robert, Lord Trevor, born Jan., 1767, and died July, 
1775 On the death of her mother, she lived with her grandmother, Lady 
Andover. 



OF MKS. DELANY. 103 

judged to us by the House of Lords, and demanding an 
additional sum of two thousand pounds never mentioned 
before. If they carry their point here against us, which 
will not be strange (though excessive hard), considering 
who our Lord Chancellor is, we must have another 
appeal, and the mortification of soliciting and tormenting 
my friends over again is a thought hardly supportable. 
I mentioned this some time ago to our friend, as I 
thought its coming on at once might distress her, and 
appear as if I had a reserve towards her, which, in truth, 
cannot be, for she knows, and must know, as long as it 
has any pulsation, what passes in my heart, unless it 
may be to save her pain. This, truly, is what keeps 
D.D. so low. I do all I can to make it easy by concealing 
my own fears about it : and at times reason prevails so 
far as to show me the folly of anxiety for what we can 
no way help, and cannot be blamed for, and points out 
how far our race is run, and therefore worldly matters 
should seem trivial. 

I am running on as if I was preaching extempore. 
If it has the same effect, and this letter luckily reaches 
your ladyship's hands when you are going to bed, it may 
lull you to sweet repose, which I hope ever awaits your 
pillow. 

Dr. Sandford is now pretty well. The children are 
well, and seem to console her for all her sorrows of body 
and mind. All join with me in best respects to your 
ladyship and Miss F. Howard. I am more then I can 
say, 

My dear Lady Andover's, ever obliged, 

Affectionate and obedient, 

M. DELANY. 



104 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Delville, 23rd April, 1767. 

I was doubly obliged by your last letter, my dearest 
Mary, though I think part of my obligation is owing to 
Lady C., who was so good as to make you enclose the 
pretty basket of flowers which I shall set a great value 
on, as your performance principally, though it has intrin- 
sic merit. The Dean sends you his best and affectionate 
compliments, and wishes in return for the kind things 
you say on his birthday. Mrs. Pointz and Mrs. Collier 
are very good to remember an old friend at such a dis- 
tance of time and place, my grateful and kind wishes 
attend them. 

I enjoyed your agreeable surprise of Mr. Gr. coming 
to you in St. James's Place, and hope he was as good as 
his promise in making you a visit at Eichmond, and 
which would be a gratification to himself. 

Your extraordinary story of Lord Anglesey 1 would 
have been astonishing, but that his character is such as 
to make any strange behaviour of his believed ; liow can 
friends, (particularly parents), so easily agree to marry a 
daughter without time to prove the merit of the person 
they give her to ! and in general those virtues that 
principally constitute happiness in the married state are 
least attended to. A title, a good fortune, an air of the 

1 Arthur, Baron Mountnorris, Baron Altham and Viscount Valentia, 
claimed the Earldom of Anglesey, as legitimate son of Richard Annesley by 
his wife Juliana Donovan. His legitimacy was acknowledged, after four years' 
contest, by the Irish House of Peers, and he took his seat as Viscount 
Valentia ; but the English House of Peers decided against his claim, and 
refused the writ as Earl of Anglesey. He continued to sit in the Irish House 
of Parliament as Viscount Valentia, and was created in 1793 Earl of Mount- 



OF MRS. DELANY. 105 

world, fantastically called " the bon ton" are sufficient 
pretensions, and virtue, religion, and all the amiable 
qualities, if thrown into the bargain 'tis very well, but 
they are too often not even enquired after ! A poor mar- 
riage is a silly, disgraceful, and imprudent thing, and 
may bring on a life of sorrow and repentance for enter- 
ing into that state without discretion, but to be united 
to a worthless wicked man must be attended with such 
bitter remorse as no advantages of rank or fortune can 
make amends for. 

I think your fancy about taking a gimp round the 
flowers on the toilet would be pretty, but too much work, 
nor would it I believe quite answer ; I should think your 
best way would be to put the flowers between two fine 
catguts, and tack them slightly round the edges, to keep 
them in their place, with very fine thread or silk, and if 
with a brush pencil you put a little starch (which is better 
than gum) on the back of the flowers and leaves when 
you place them on the catgut that is to be the ground, it 
would give a stiffness that would be an advantage to the 
whole : it must be done in a frame, and were you to do it 
in flounces as mine was done, you would I think be 
better able to manage it ; three flounces would be enough, 
and they should hang a little full ; your largest flowers 
must be at the bottom. I am sure you will do better 
than I can direct you, this is only in complaisance with 
your request, and so with love and best wishes from all 
here, I end my long recipe for a toilet ! We are tolera- 
bly well. Dr. S. at his living. 

I am ever, my dearest Mary, 

Your affectionate and faithful, M. D. 

Our best respects to Lady Cowper. 



106 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

To Bernard Granville, Esq. 

The Duchess Dowager of Portland presents her com- 
pliments to Mr. Granville, to whom she thinks herself 
extremely obliged for the favour he did her in going to 
Bulstrode with her ; she hopes he did not increase his 
cold ; she natters herself that next year she may hope to 
see him when the spring is more advanced, that Bui- 
strode may appear in a better light. 

She troubles him with her compliments to Mr. 
Eousseau, and a book, which she hopes will give him 
more satisfaction than any he has had yet. 

She hopes nothing will prevent her waiting on Mr. 
Granville at Calwich this year, and will take the liberty 
to write to know if it will be convenient to him. 



Mr. Granville to Miss Dewes. 

Calwich, 10th May, 1767. 

DEAR MADAM, 

I thank you for the favour of your letter, and 
was very glad to hear you were well at Eichmond, and 
desire you will make my best acknowledgments to my 
Lady Cowper for the honour she does me. You must more 
likely make your own compliments to Mr. Rousseau, for 
he left last week, went for London, but I think he pro- 
poses making Chiswick the place of his abode for this 
summer. Mrs. Cowper, Mr. Davenport's housekeeper, 
behaved in so brutish a manner towards him, that 
it occasioned his sudden departure from this country 
a sad loss to me ; I would fain have had him come 
and stay at Calwich, but could not prevail. If chance 



OF MRS. DELANY. 107 

should bring you in his way, tell him how I mourn 
the loss of such a neighbour, and that I wish all 
good and pleasant circumstances may attend him where- 
ever he is. 

I am glad you have seen the Foleys, and agree with 
you in thinking the tapestry the finest of their kind that 
I have seen. Did not you admire the looking-glasses 
between the windows ? the fringe to the window curtains 
seemed to me to be the best I ever saw, but the tapestry 
is a constant entertainment, and the story a very proper 
one to admit of variety of expressions. 

I heard last post from Delville. If your brother Court 
is come to town, make my compliments to him, and ask 
him if he has not in his hands the writings belonging to 
Mrs. Delany's house in Spring Gardens. Did not you 
say that you expected Mr. Dewes also. If he is come 
make my compliments, but if J. is left alone why does 
not he ride over and make Calwich a visit. 

The Mills dined here a few days ago, and desired their 
compliments to Eichmond. I shall make yours the first 
time I see them again, adieu. 

Who was the Duchess of Buccleugh ? J 

I had almost forgot to tell you Tony and Nan were 
well, but you forgot to enquire after Smut. You have 
had two fine tup lamps this year ; as they could not con- 
veniently be sent, as they are apt to be unruly, I have 
sold them for half a guinea a piece, so that you may 
draw for your money when you please ! 

1 Elizabeth, daughter of George, Duke of Montagu, married, in 1767, 
Henry, 3rd Duke of Buccleugh. 



108 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs, Delany to the Right Eon. Viscountess Andover. 

Delville, 16th May, 1767. 

It is so long since I heard from my dear Lady Andover 
that I can't live longer without enquiring after her, 
though I am ill able to write, being just recovered from 
one of my bad colds ; but I cannot delay telling you the 
present state of our affairs, which though an unpleasant 
subject I must not withhold from a friend who has 
always shown me so much kindness and partiality, and 
suffer report to inform you in an unsatisfactory manner. 
Our pecuniary adversaries have pursued us ever since 
the Lords' decree, and have advanced their suit so far 
before ours that the 3000 and interest and a new de- 
mand of 2000, which they can come upon us to pay 
before we can lay hold of what they are to pay us, (that 
would more than balance accounts,) obliges us to retrench 
till matters are accommodated ; and as that is impossible 
if we live on in this place, we are determined, please 
God, to visit our English friends this summer and to 
winter at the Bath. Surely I shall be able to see my 
dear Lady Andover some way or other. Our route and 
time of going not yet determined. It has not been in 
my power yet to break this affair to my dear friend at 
Whitehall, I have only told her of our going to Bath 
for D.D.'s health. I have consulted Lady H. Grey 1 
whether I shall tell her more before I go to England. 

At present lam a good deal embarrassed, but if I can 
keep up the Dean's spirits, and he bears the journey and 
fatiguing voyage pretty well, I shall hope to do very well 
myself. Leaving my dear Mrs. Sandford at a time when 

1 " Lady Harriet Grey," daughter of the Duchess of Portland, afterwards 
the Countess of Stamford. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 109 

she will want a female friend is also an anxious thought, 
but she has a better protector, and I hope a few months 
may give a turn in our favour. 

My head will hold out no longer. I am indeed most 
impatient to know how you do, and those for whom you 
are dearly concerned, and trust if writing is disagreeable 
or inconvenient, my kind friend Miss F. Howard will add 
to the favours I have already received from her. 
This house begs best respects to you and yours. 
I am my dear Lady Andover's 

Most faithful, affectionate, and 

Obedient humble servant, 

M. DELANY. 



The Countess Cowper to Miss Dewes at Calwich. 

Warwick Castle, Monday morn. (1767 ?) 

Neither the magnificence of this place nor the atten- 
tions I receive can put my dear girls and my Welsbourne 
friends out of my thoughts, even to the little sweet boy. 
I was so much agitated at leaving you that it made me 
very nervous and low, and I did not speak above once 
(and that was upon turning out of the road for a waggon 
loaded with hay) between this place and Welsbourne. I 
came under the hour. I hope good Mr. Dewes was not 
wet in his return home. It rained hard here as soon 
as he got off his horse. 

On Saturday morning Lady Louisa and I took a walk 
before the rain came, which was at noon, and we could 
not stir out in the evening, so we had recourse to music. 
Lady Louisa and I played thorough bass, and we had 
two violins and a tenor. On Sunday morning at nine 



110 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

o'clock we had prayers in the chapel, and as Mr. John 
Dewes was not to preach, I did not go to church. At 
eleven o'clock the Earl and I took an airing in his post- 
chaise round the park, which is indeed delightful. A 
thunder-storm drove us home, and the family of the Wise's 
dined here. We got a walk round the garden in the 
evening, and to-day we are to drink tea with them. So 
far I wrote before breakfast (which does not come up to 
that at Welsbourne, and I drank but one dish of tea), 
since then Lady Louisa and I have, by walking and the 
help of a cabriolet, gone all over the park, which is 
really more beautiful than can be imagined, and upon 
the whole I think this place surpasses anything I have 
ever yet seen. 

Tuesday morning. 

We drank tea yesterday evening at the Priory, where 
we met Mr. and Mrs. Baggott, (he in a bob.) They 
dine here to-morrow, and Mr. St. John, a pretty looking 
man. At night arrived at the Castle Lord Warwick's 1 
two youngest sons from Edinburgh, one eighteen, the 
other sixteen the latter a beautiful Vandyke. They 
have been absent almost three years, so your warm heart 
will easily believe there was great joy at their arrival, 
but they are to return again in the autumn. When the 
Earl and I were alone airing on Sunday, he talked to 



1 Francis, 8th Baron Brooke, created Earl of Warwick, 7th Sept., 1759. lie 
married, IGth May, 1742, Elizabeth, eldest daughter of Ld. Archibald Hamilton, 
by whom he had three sons and four daughters. Lady Louisa Grevillc, his 
eldest daughter, married, in 1770, William Churchill, of Henbury, Esq. 
The Earl's youngest sons were, Charles Francis, born 12th May, 1749, who 
died unmarried in 1809, and Robert Fulke, born 3rd Feb., 1751, married 
19th Oct., 1797, Louisa, Countess of Mansfield. 



OF MRS. DEL ANY. Ill 

me a good deal about the Countess, and showed one of 
the best of hearts ; but I am convinced if the Countess 
ever had one it never was his. How happy will that 
man be that gets my dearest girl's, but I hope she 
will give it cautiously, and never have reason to resume 
it, and not have the hard fate of meeting with one who 
should, like " the base Indian, throw away a pearl richer 
than all his tribe." 

Wednesday. 

We drank tea last night with Lady Mary Greathead 1 
at Guy's Cliff; 'tis well worth seeing, though not well 
kept. We walked all about ; she had with her a sister 
of her husband's, who looked like a man in woman's 
clothes. 

We are to go this morning by way of airing to see the 
ruins at Kenilworth Castle. 

I hope you and your good father arrived safe and well 
last night at Calwich, where I don't doubt you was 
gladly received. My best compliments to all with you, 
and in particular to Mr. Granville and Mrs. Delaiiy, not 
forgetting Mr. Dewes, with many thanks for all his 
attentions at Welsbourne. 

I hold my resolution of breakfasting with Mrs. Mead 
on Friday morning, where I shall be indulged with 
talking of my dear girl and meeting my lover. I have 
here in my dressing-room a picture of a sleeping boy 
that puts me in mind of little Mun. I have just 
received a letter from Lady Talbot, who will expect me 
at dinner the 1st of August. They are all well at Spa. 



1 Lady Mary Greathead, sister of the Duke of Aucaster. She died, April 
23rd, 1774. 



112 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The weather is still unsettled, like April. There is only 
now and then a spark of fire appears ; I believe it is kept 
under upon my account. 

Lord Greville ' is returned from his travels, and ex- 
pected at the Castle on Saturday next. (Mrs. Harry 
Wise not well). 

I am just returned from Kenil worth Castle; the 
ruins are worth seeing, but the wind was so high 
(though south-west) that we could hardly keep upon our 
feet; it belongs to Lord Hyde, four miles from hence 
on the Coventry road, which I allow to be very good. 
I must now go to dress. 

I have left the company drinking coffee to finish my 
letter (which I hope is long enough to please you), as it 
must be put into the post early to-morrow morning. 
Let me hear from you soon and as often as you can, for 
my dear girl's letters are always most acceptable to her 

Affectionate mamma, 

G. C. COWPER. 



Mrs. Delany to the Viscountess Andover. 

Calwich, 16th June, 1767. 

After distresses and toils of various kinds here I am, 
my dear Lady Andover, undergoing the fate of Tantalus 
in being so near so dear a friend, and only near, for 
the Dean is so greatly overcome with his fatigue that 
it is impossible for him to think of moving yet, and as 
impossible for me to leave him. My only hope is that 
when we go to Bath, where we intend to set up our 



1 George, Lord Greville, afterwards 2nd Earl of Warwick. 



OF MES. DELANY. 313 

winter quarters, that we may wait upon you for a day or 
two in our way thither. We came here last Wednesday : 
I hope time and good council will set all to rights, but 
my spirits have been so hurried that I am not sure if 
what has past has been a dream or a reality ! My heart 
is full, and longs to unburthen itself to you which cannot 
be done in a letter. 

I have had a most kind letter from our inestimable 
friend at Whitehall, but no hope of seeing her till she 
comes to Buxton, and that I fear will not be till the 
beginning of August, the time we proposed going to 
Bath, that we might be settled there before it was 
crouded. 

I beg to hear from your ladyship soon, and shall re- 
joice to receive a good account of your health and spirits, 
and that will be an assurance that all are well you love. 

I have an opportunity of sending my letter immedi- 
ately, which only allows me time to add the best compli- 
ments and respects of all here to your ladyship and Miss 
Howard. I am most affectionately and gratefully my 
dear Lady Andover's 

Most obedient humble servant, 

M. DELANY. 



Rousseau to Bernard Granvttle, Esq. 

Ce Samedi matin. 

Voici, Monsieur, un petit morceau de poisson de mon- 
tagne qui ne vaut pas celui que vous m'avez envoye ; 
aussi je vous 1'onre en hommage et non pas en echange, 
sachant bien que toutes vos bontes pour moi ne peuvent 

PART II. VOL. I. I 



114 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

s'acquitter qu'avec les sentimens que vous m'avez in- 
spires. 

Je me faisois une fete d'aller vous prier de me presen- 
ter a Madame votre sceur, 1 mais le terns me contrarie. 

Je suis malheureux en beaucoup de choses, car je ne 
puis pas dire en tout, ayant un voisin tel que vous. 

BOUSSEAU. 

Le chevreuil vient de loin et ne peut se garder. 



Mrs. Delany to the Eight Hon. Viscountess Andover. 

Calwich, 29th June, 1767. 

My brother will think himself honoured and happy in 
the very kind visit dear Lady Andover intends me, and 
how can I express my sense of your goodness to me ! I 
feel it most tenderly, and am all impatience till the day 
comes that will bring me such a consolation. 

I received your ladyship's letter yesterday dated the 
19th, so that it was eight days on the road. My brother 
begs his best respects, and hopes you will do him the 
favour to let him know the day you intend coming that 
he may have the gates open, and that you will come to 
dinner, and as we dine late, I hope you may be able to do 
it without inconvenience, and I can't bear the thoughts 
of losing one precious moment you are so good as to in- 



1 " Madame votre sceur." It may be doubtful whether it would not have 
been a day of penance rather than a day of "fete " to Mrs. Delany if Rousseau 
had been presented to her, as it is evident that, from the commencement of 
his residence at Wootton, she dreaded that her brother might be influenced 
by his opinions, and it is certain that Mr. Granville was not a happier man 
after his acquaintance with Rousseau. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 115 

tend me. And let me add my entreaty, that it may be 
as soon as possible after your receipt of this letter. 
Happy moments are fleeting, and it is dangerous to delay 
them ! 

The Dean is at present pretty well, but easily fa- 
tigued, and on the whole he has been wonderfully 
supported. 

The Duchess of Portland says she can't come till the end 
of August, so that I fear my visit to Elford may be de- 
layed so long as to make it inconvenient to my dear Lady 
Andover, but we shall talk of that soon I trust. Have I 
any hope of seeing dear Miss F. Howard with you ? 
My affectionate compliments attend her. The Dean 
begs his best respects. I am much more than I can say 
my dearest Lady Andover, 

Your ever obliged, affectionate, 
And obedient humble servant, 

M. DELANY. 

The direction to Calwich is near Ashbourne, Derby- 
shire. 

Since my writing this letter an opportunity has offered 
of sending it immediately, and we hope your ladyship 
will be able to come this week any day after Tuesday, 
(the messenger that delivers this will bring back an 
answer,) and that you will not be in such a hurry to 
leave us as you mention. 



i 2 



116 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



Gen. Fitzwilliam to Miss Dewes. 

Richmond. Monday, 6th July, 1767. 

DEAR Miss DEWES, 

From the moment of your departure, to this of 
my writing, I have not seen an eye but what has been 
filled with tears. You have carried from us all our 
amusements, all our hopes ; and the prospect of the ap- 
proaching winter presents with it the most uncomfort- 
able ideas, as you are to be succeeded by Patagonians, 
and yellow girls just scrambling out of their nurseries. 
Why then was this journey undertaken, or why are we 
to have the additional grief of knowing the tmlikelihood 
of your being to return to us ? Is relationship and the 
ties of affinity to separate you from all those who love 
you; because they have the ill-fortune of being born 
without the honour of being allied to you ? so that unless 
we are Delanys, or can come to Welsbourne, or to Calwich, 
we are condemned and excluded from your society. 
Lady Cowper has just showed you to us to make us 
bewail your loss, and it is not fair that she (who is ex- 
tremely so), should have been guilty of such a crime to 
this neighbourhood ; in which, I am I hope I may be 
allowed to say a very considerable mourner. 

All this proem is the effect of real grief, in which as I 
said, I am to bear so chief a part, and yet hope (which is 
the constant friend and the refuge of the unhappy) keeps 
me alive, and who knows but the hand of the sylph 
who guides us, may unexpectedly bring you back to 
Richmond. Lady Cowper's tears upon parting with 
you, (for I am sure she cannot refrain from them, on 
such an occasion), may melt your aunt, and give you to 



OF MRS. DELANY. 117 

us again ; brother Johnny may be of the party with Lady 
Cowper, and brother Banny may go to Calwich. Thus, 
your family is disposed and all parties are pleased ! 

In the meantime, I do myself the honour of inclosing 
Mrs. Greville's ode, 1 having taken and given forty copies 
of it, because it is known it was from a copy of yours ; 
and I am desired by Mrs. Fitzwilliam, indeed, by all 
your friends here, to beg you will at the times of retire- 
ment allowed to you by your several lovers to tell them, 
(in a little packet to me), the scheme of what you are to 
do, where to be, and if we have any chance of seeing you 
at Love in a Village, where there is nothing but love, and 
all of it occasioned by you ! 

Pray present my most respectful compliments to Lady 
Cowper, and accept the same for your condescension and 
goodness in permitting me to have this honour. I shall 
be happy in knowing you forgive the liberty I take, 
being with great regard, and may I say affection, 
Your most obedient servant, 

JOHN FITZWILLIAM. 

Should Lady Cowper be desirous (I will not say 
curious because she has often said, she has "no curi- 
osity ") of seeing my letter, pray, show it to her, and 
say how much I am her most humble servant. 



1 " Mrs. Greville's ode." Frances, wife of Fulke Greville, Esq., and 
daughter of James Macartney, Esq., was the authoress of the "Prayer for 
Indifference," which commences thus 

" Oft I've implor'd the gods in vain, 
And pray'd till I've heen weary ; 
For once I'll strive my wish to gain 
Of Oberon, the fairy." 



118 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Delany to the Viscountess Andover. 

Calwich, 20th July, 1767. 

With the greatest pleasure I ohey dear Lady Ando- 
ver's kind command of writing soon, and acknowledging 
the favour of your ladyship's letter which I yesterday 
received. I hope you had one from me, a short one 
indeed, but how can I express the sense I have of your 
goodness in the most kind visit you made to Calwich ? 
My brother as well as myself lament the short duration 
of that happy scene, and the more so, as he fears it may 
not be in his power to accept the honour your Ladyship 
offers him ; his health is in so indifferent and uncertain 
a state ; nothing else could rob him of a pleasure he so 
much wishes for. I rejoice your journey agreed so well 
with you and Miss F. Howard, and that you found the 
little darling so well ; may health and happiness ever 
attend your steps. 

I hope we are going on as well as when you were 
here, the Dean I hope rather better. My nephew Ber- 
nard Dewes came last Monday, and makes an agreeable 
addition to our society. I expect his elder brother in a day 
or two, and next Tuesday se'night Mr. and Miss Dewes. 
Lady Cowper stays out her full fortnight at Welsbourne, 
as she designed doing before I came to England. Miss 
Dewes I am sure will think herself extremely happy to 
be allowed the honour of waiting on your ladyship and 
Miss F. Howard at Elford. 

Though the events are past I cannot help having 
some sort of envy at Mr. Vise for his expeditious pas- 
sage. But this has not hitherto been a year of lucky 
moments to tis chide me my dear Lady Andover for 



OF MRS. DELANY. 119 

this last wicked paragraph. Am I not in England, are 
not my dear friends better to me a thousand degrees than 
I deserve, and is not the Dean miraculously well con- 
sidering wJiat he has undergone? I will reform, and 
not dwell on the gloomy but more enlightened part of 
my portion, and be thankful. 

I am glad your ladyship has heard from the Duchess of 
Portland. I have had the happiness of hearing also, and 
am impatiently waiting for the moment of felicity that 
will bring her to this place. Good wishes attend the orange 
myrtle. I fear you have had as many hindrances by bad 
weather from the enjoyment of your blooming hill, as 
we have had of our fairy pool and rock. A tempting 
sunbeam has sometimes betrayed us, and before we could 
return home have had a sprinkling shower, but the bow- 
room makes us some amends for our confinement. 

I had a letter from Mrs. Dashwood, she mentions 
Lady W. being in good spirits. I hope she has not 
mistaken her time of confinement, the farthest was the 
latter end of this month, for beside the earnest desire 
and longing I have to see our most amiable friend, I 
should wish v to be composed at Bath before the days 
shorten much. 

The best compliments of the gentlemen of this house 
salute Elford, as well as those of 

My dear Lady Andover's most affectionate, 
Grateful and obedient humble servant, 

M. DELANY. 

Is it too impertinent to beg of Lord Suffolk six or 
eight covers directed to, 

MRS. SANDFORD, at Delville, 
near Dublin. 



120 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

I beg you will not mention it if Lord Suffolk has the 
least objection ; if he has not beg you will keep them till 
I have the happiness of asking you for them, for I have 
as many as will serve me till then. 

I shall be vastly glad if I am so fortunate as to see 
him at Elford. Nobody can wish him happiness more 
sincerely than the Dean and I do. 



The Countess Cowper to the Rev. John Dewes, at Welsboume. 
SlR, Barrington Park, Aug. 7th, 1767. 

To convince you that I am in charity with you, 
I take the first opportunity of thanking you for your 
polite letter. Though to be sure it was a great omission 
for a lover to fail his rendezvous ! I was beyond my 
time, for it was eight o'clock before I got to Welsbourne, 
and I found Mrs. Mead in bed, for she had been brought 
to bed but the night before ! The Captain and Miss 
Mead did the honours of the breakfast extremely well, 
and sweet little Mun. brought me two fine nosegays, 
which are at present in my bed-chamber. I told him I 
would run away with him, but he said, "no no," and 
was not in a " banger " humour. 

I heard of you at Warwick, and should been glad to 
have seen you. I got to Woodstock by five o'clock. I 
went through Blenheim Park, but only sent a compli- 
ment, and did not stop at the house, as it was the public 
day, but soon received a very polite note from the Duke 
and Duchess of Marlborough, 1 with fruit of all sorts, and 



i George, 3rd Duke of Marlborough. He married, in 1762, Caroline, only 
daughter of John, 4th Duke of Bedford. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 121 

said had they not been detained by company they should 
have waited upon me " at the Tun" I amused myself 
there with looking over the steel works, and laid out 5 
in it. I arrived here the next day by noon, and stay 
till Monday next, when I propose going to Newnham, 
and hope to be at home about the middle of the week ; 
but I have not met with anything that I have liked better 
than the manner I passed my time at Welsbourne, which 
is the land of peace and plenty ! 

My best compliments to Mrs. Mead, &c. I have had 
two letters from your dear sister, and wrote her a long 
letter from Warwick Castle. 

This is not one of your pens you will sec by the 
writing. You ought to set copies for all your acquaint- 
ance. Your handwriting is as good as Mrs. Delany's ! 
I wish mine was so. 

Believe me with great esteem, sir, 

Your sincere humble servant, 

Gr. C. COWPER. 



Rousseau to Bernard GranviUe^ Esq., Calwich. 

De France le pr. Aout. 1767. 

Si j'avois eu, Monsieur, 1'honneur de vous ecrire au- 
tant de fois que je 1'ai resolu, vous auriez ete accable de 
mes lettres ; mais les tracas d'une vie ambulante et ceux 
d'une m altitude de survenans ont absorbe tout mon 
terns, jusqu'a que je sois parvenu a obtenir un asyle un 
peu plus tranquille. Quelque agre'able qu'il soit, j'y sens 
souvent, Monsieur, la privation de votre voisinage et de 
votre socie'te, et j'en remplis souvent la solitude du sou- 
venir de vos bontes poor moi. Peu s'en est fallu que je 



122 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

ne sois retourne jouir de tout cela chez mon ancien et 
aimable hote ; mais la maniere dont vos papiers publics 
ont parle de ma retraite m'a determine a la faire entiere 
et a executer un projet dont vous avez ete le premier con- 
fident. Je vous disois alors qu'en quelque lieu que je 
fusse je ne vous oublierois jamais; j'ajoute maintenant 
qu'a ce souvenir si bien du se joindra toute ma vie le 
regret de 1'entretenir de si loin. 

Permettez du moins que ce regret soit tempere par le 
plaisir de vous demander et d'apprendre quelques fois de 
vos nouvelles, et de vous re'iterer de terns en terns les 
assurances tres-sinceres de ma reconnoissance, de mon 
attachement et de mon respect. 

BOUSSEATJ. 

Vous pourrez, Monsieur, si vous me faites 1'honneur 
de m'e'crire, addresser votre lettre a M. Josue Bougemont, 
banquier, Green Lettice Lane, Cannon Street a Londres. 

II me la fera parvenir. 



The Countess Cowper to Miss Dewes. 

Richmond, Oct. 30th, 1767. 

I am very glad to hear my dearest girl is so well 
amused at Bath. I know she is entertaim??^, and I 
rejoice to hear she is entertains d. I went the 23rd inst. 
to town in the morning to fetch Mrs. Helena Le Grand. 
She is a very sensible good sort of a woman ; but so tall ! 
that I feel like a pigmy by her, and was ashamed to walk 
about at our last Ridotta on Wednesday with her. It 
takes extremely, I believe. There was at least twenty- 
five couple of dancers ; but the minuets are quite tire- 



OF MKS. DELANY. 123 

some, and many of the ladies have a step of their own, 
but quite unlike the minuet step ! We had both Rus- 
sians and Prussians last assembly. Madame Pouceskin 
dances both French and country dances very well, and 
is a pretty woman. Poor young Yeaman came up and 
told me he left you well at Bath, but gave me a very 
bad account of his amiable sister. The General used to 
say she was " like his picture of an angel," and 1 believe 
she will soon be one. 

What is become of the Wyndham family ? The more 
you are acquainted with Mrs. Ravaud the better you will 
like her, and I think that will be the case in respect of 
you. 

As my money does not go fast enough, I have lost a 
Bank note of 20, or at least cannot account for it. 

I forgot to tell you that Lady Cecilia Johnston l desired 
her compliments and thanks to you for the dirge, which 
she thought very pretty. 

One ought not to lament poor Mrs. Granville's 2 being 
released from her misery. She was always good, in spite 
of bad example, and is now, I do not doubt, amply 
rewarded. 

Your friend Captain Hamilton was at the second and 
third assembly, and danced minuets and country dances 
with Miss Sheffield. He kept back the first night in the 
minuets, and I asked him if he " did not intend to dance ?" 
He said, " a stranger and an Irishman must not put 
themselves forward." I got him immediately taken out. 



1 Lady Cecilia West, daughter of John, Earl of Delawarr, married General 
James Johnston. 

2 The Hon. Mrs. Anne Granville, eldest daughter of George, Lord Lansdown, 
died, October 18, 1767. 



124 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

When I went away he happened to be at the hottom of 
the room, and, though in a violent heat, was so polite as 
to offer to hand me to my coach ; but I would not permit 
him, and told him " a soldier's life was too precious to be 
hazarded unnecessarily." My best wishes attend the 
Dean and dear Mrs. Delany. I do not trouble her with 
a letter, as I write to you so often, and writing is not 
my passion. 

Mrs. Jeffreys wrote you word of my having been 
serenaded, a gallantry of the Major belonging to the 
Light Horse ! We had on Saturday last a concert per- 
formed by gentlemen and ladies at Sir Charles Asgill's. 
I wished for my dear girl both as spectator and performer. 
An awkward person sat himself down upon a marble 
sideboard, and brought it down with a branch of candles, 
and I desired to know his name, that I might never 
invite him to my house ! I am to have a party for Mrs. 
Holman 1 below stairs on Tuesday next. I shall make 
up two tables. Mrs. Clutterbuck is still at Richmond. 
I carried her to the second assembly. I was blooded 
last week by Stradwicke by way of precaution. My 
blood, he said, was very good, but I have frequently faint 
sweats come over me, but they only continue a few 
minutes, and I am otherwise very well. I went on 
Tuesday morning to see my sister Tweeddale, and missed 
a second serenade. G. C. C. 

The difference of Lady Cowper's opinion and Mrs. Delany's 
is manifested in this letter on the subject of young ladies being 
" performers " at public amateur concerts, as Mrs. Delany and her 
sister did not approve of such early exhibitions for young girls. 



1 " Mrs. Holman," the flower-maker? 



OF MRS. DELANY. 125 

Mrs. Delany to The Rev. John Dewes, at Wdsbourne. 

Bath, 19th Nov., 1767. 

Your sister, my dear Reverend, is so much better, she 
would willingly have answered your very entertaining 
letter ; but, though much better, I thought it best not to 
trust her with pen and ink to-day, as I am sure her 
fancy would run on wheels, and her pen keep pace with 
it, which, though happy for the person to whom it would 
be addressed, might be rather too much for her with a 
blister on her back not yet healed. I assure you and 
Mr. Dewes that she is vastly mended; her cough very 
much abated, and her spirits (notwithstanding the disci- 
pline she has gone through) very good. She is now 
playing on the clavicord to the Dean a new Scotch 
song. 

Had not a succession of interruptions prevented me 
and taken up all my morning, you would have had a 
longer letter, but no more now, than kind compliments 
from all to Welsbourne, and that I am your affectionate, 

M. DELANY. 




'^The Countess Cowper to Miss Dewes. 

Richmond, Dec. 6th, 1767. 

I rejoice to hear that my sweet girl is quite well again. 
Your illnesses are always huge bad, and I hope they will 
always be soon over. You are too precious to all your 
friends not to give them very painful sensations when 
you are ill. My horses have all had the epidemical dis- 
temper, but, thank God, myself and family have escaped. 
Godwin is going to be married to a person in great busi- 



126 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

ness at Woolwich a young man well enough in his 
person, and in good circumstances. It seems he came 
here by chance with a relation of hers last summer, and 
fell in love with her ! 'Tis lucky the flirtation is over ! 
I had a quadrille party at home on Friday last two 
tables. The Eichmond company are all dropping off 
very fast, but my neighbours remain till spring. I 
hope to keep Mrs. Le Grand till after Christmas. She 
loves music, and plays on the harpsichord. I read aloud 
as usual, and she works, which she says she greatly pre- 
fers to the card parties. But I only think aloud with 
my dear girl, "When shall we meet again?" Your 
brothers dined here on Thursday last, and brought me 
the poem, for which I am much obliged to you. They 
both look well, and were in good spirits. I asked them 
to stay all night, and would have carried them with me 
that evening to Mrs. Jeffrey's, but they had business 
early the next morning, and returned by moonlight to 
town, I hope they did not meet with any collectors. 
Lord and Lady Spencer have been in town for a few 
days, but are returned to Althorpe till after Christmas. 
My son 1 is spending money both at Northampton and 
St. Albans in odious elections. I shall now wear my 
pretty glove-tops, and I am sure they will be admired. All 
your Eichmond friends desire to be remembered to you. 
My best compliments to the Dean. Pray, my sweet girl, 
take great care of yourself, for the sake of your tender 
affectionate mamma, 

Gr. C. COWPER. 

Puff sends her respects to her governess. 



1 My son." John, 1st Earl Spc-ncor. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 127 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes, Bath. 

Whitehall, 10th December, 1767. 

My dearest Mary, you are indeed Vaimable enfant. I 
cannot tell you how sensibly I feel your kind attention 
to my dear D.D. Pray give him my love and duty, and 
tell him I am very well and very careful of myself; 
were I not, my friend here is most kind and watchful. 
But I am so hurried with business that my head turns 
round, for on examining the house in Spring Gardens 1 
I found so much to do in separating what I would 
keep from what I would dispose of, that I have not yet 
done half, and find it would be impossible for me to leave 
London before next Wednesday, and hope to be happy 
with you both on Thursday by four o'clock. I was so 
much determined to go on Monday that I let your 
brothers fix that day for going into the country, and 
they have engaged themselves to company, so that they 
cannot put it off. 

Mr. Hammersley was here this morning, and says he 
will have a proper attention to what the Dean desires 
him, and thinks our affairs bear a better aspect. Our 
appeal cannot come on before the middle of February } 
and if the grand Douglas cause comes on this year, it 
will not be heard this year, which will give us a 
great advantage. He has made me write to day to 
Mr. Collis. I send the Dean a copy of it and desire 



1 Mrs. Delany had left Miss Dewes with the Dean, at Bath, while she went 
to London to sell her house in Spring Gardens. 



128 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

him to keep it ; I only added the Duchess of Portland's 
name at her desire and that his answers might be 
directed hither. 

I believe Mr. Hammersley will buy my house with 
what furniture I think proper to leave. He is very 
earnest to have it, and I hope the Dean will approve 
of it. 

Many kind compliments from hence to my dearest 
Mary, ample justice to all. 

Believe me more than I can say 

Affectionately yours 

M. DELANT. 

I insist on your going to the ball on Tuesday if you 
have a proper chaperon that you like. 

My brother's letter gave me a great pleasure ; and 
though his hurricane was frightful, his account made me 
laugh. 

You don't say a word of Mr. Whitfield's sermon ? 

With what face could our friend, Mr. Franak, appear 
in Harlequin Row ? 



The Duchess of Portland to Mrs. Delany. 

Sunday night. 

My dearest friend's goodness is such .that I know you 
will be pleased to hear I had a very pleasant journey and 
I think myself much better. I was so hungry that I got 
a piece of bread at Uxbridge, and have just now made a 
comfortable meal on tea and bread and butter. I most 
heartily wish you was well enough to come here, but 



OF MRS. DELANY. 129 

beg as you love me you will not think of it till Juxton 
gives full leave. I am really refreshed by the air. Adieu, 
my dearest friend ; good night. 

Tony flew at me and would have bit me. Coz Nan 
was here yesterday. What an escape I and the Chatter- 
reins ! 

It was very hot for the first half hour. 

Their Majesties drove about the Park on Tuesday. 



The following Notes and Invitations, found amongst Mrs. 
Delany's papers, are given as specimens of the style and spelling 
of the time. 

" Mr. Cole presents his compliments to Mrs. Delany 
and begs her acceptance of a Mezzotinto, of Mr. Jenyns." 

Carey Street, Thursday. 

" Lady Leicester sends her compliments to Mrs. De- 
lany. She will be extremly glad of her company to dine 
with her on Wensday next to meet Lady Govver and Mrs. 
Montagu. Her humble service waits on Miss Dews, who 
she hopes will be of the party." 

Monday, April the 17th. 

" Dutchess of Leinster's compt 8 to Mrs. Delany 
thanks for her inquiry is pretty well and sorry to 
find Mrs. Delany not so." 



Mrs. Ddarty to Miss Dewes, at Countess Cowper's, 

Saturday. 

I enjoy this bright morning, as I hope it will afford 
my dearest Mary a pleasant and salutary airing. I like 

PART II. VOL. I. K 



130 LIFE AND OOBRESPONDENCE 

the accounts of you from your Brother B. and your own 
letter tolerably, and don't expect you should get your 
appetite till you have been in the air and used exercise ; 
and now I hope you are so stout that with prudence the 
enemy will have no more power over you. I don't attempt 
coming to you now, as it would interfere with your 
airings, and I hope you will be able to make some return 
to your kind nurses by a perfect re-establishment of 
health and spirits, and when you are well able and they 
willing, here you will find a home most glad to receive 
you. I have not the least thought of you till the end of 
next week, but your bed and room are kept constantly 
aired. And now, my dear child, having much to do this 
morning and to dine at Whitehall, probably I shall not 
have time to add more to my slender epistle than my 
best wishes and compliments to the triumvirate. 



Part of a Letter without date. 



A word in the envelope to thank my dear child for 
her filial letter, and for the very great cordial of hearing 
you are advancing in two such material points as spirits 
and appetite. May every blessing hourly increase with 
my own dear Mary. 

As to your amiable Countess, who has taken so much 
care of you and does you so much honour, I can only 
say I am sure the pleasure she takes in doing kind- 
ness pays her better than any acknowledgment I can 
make her. To say I did not long to receive you in my 
little thatch would be falsifying my own sentiments, but 
I must add, could I with as much ease come to you as 
her ladyship can come to London, I might be less impa- 



OF MRS. DELANY. 131 

tient to have you ; but do me the justice to her to say I 
have not hastened you a day. As to you, my other dear 
niece, are you so hardened as not to know you stand in 
need of no advocate to assure me of your goodness and 
indulgence to your affectionate A. D., and so adieu all 
three. 

Miss H. Thynne well again. Lady Stamford has 
drawn a tooth. Lord Edward Bentinck come to Eng- 
land. Lady Mary Somerset very ill at Nice. I have 
not room to add all the kind things from everybody. 

If N. E. sees this she will not scandalize me any more 
with speaking of a " copper-plate" &c. Mr. Perkins just 
come to town ; saw papa perfectly well again as he 
passed through Welsbourn. 



Miss Dewes to her Brother, 

Bath, April 27th. 

MY DEAR BROTHER, 

I wrote to you a strange hurrying scrawl by Mr. 
Lucy's gamekeeper last week, but since then Fhave 
heard from my father, who writes me word that you are 
gone to Oxford. Why does not Bath lie in your way ? 
I think I have not had a right comfortable letter from 
you since you were last at Oxford : if you have time I 
know you will indulge me with one, if you have not I 
am well assured your silence will not proceed from want 
of affection to me ; and I find mine for you too strong to 
doubt of yours. It is now near eleven o'clock, and the 
moon is shining full into my room, which is backwards, 
and I have from my windows a most delightful prospect. 
Pray t send me word some account of your water and 
fishing-parties, and if you have met with any more lines 

K 2 



132 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

as pretty as those you once gave me that was written 
upon Godstone Nunnery. 

If Mr. Trevor is now at Oxford pray make my com- 
pliments to him, and tell him the Bishop of Durham (his 
uncle) is at Bath ; also tell him I heard Mr. Frampton 
preach at the Abbey to-day, and that he was full as con- 
vincing and as eloquent as usual. He can give you a 
particular account of Mr. Frampton. 

Mr. Granville goes to London on Tuesday. The 
Dean is much as he was, some days better and some 
worse ; he goes out airing most days, but is very low, 
and has little or no appetite and great shortness of 
breath ; poor man ! My aunt has a sad time of it I her 
kind love attends you ; she longs to see you, and how much 
I do I think it will be needless forme to say ! but' when 
I shall God knows, for the Dean, I think, will never be 
able to leave Bath ! and it is impossible for me to leave 
my A. D. in her anxious state except my father was ill. 
To-morrow I am to go with Lady Trevor to a public 
breakfast at a place they call Spring Garden ; we cross 
the water to go to it. I wish you could be of the party. 
There are public breakfasts there twice a week, and 
music and dancing. Mrs. and Miss Tomlinson are to 
be there to-day. Mr. Snell is gone to London, I ima- 
gine to consult his father about the wedding, for I 
believe he is certainly to have Miss Phillips and her 
twenty thousand pounds. 

I heard the other day from Eichmond. Lady C. 
desires her compliments to you ; she was very well, and 
as kind and obliging as ever. I do think to say no- 
thing of her greater qualities that she has the most con- 
stant flow of good humour and good spirits I ever saw. 



OP MRS. DELANY. 133 

Oxford must now begin to look very pleasant. How 
go on your concerts ? here is one every week, which. I 
generally go to. Linley's daughter sings at it, and she 
has a sweet voice ; but he makes her sing too much and 
too hard songs, for she is very young ; there is a good 
deal of bad music, and some very good, so it is, (as it is 
in life) checkered. 

Tuesday. 

Mr. Granville sets out to-day. He takes London in 
his road to Calwich. The Dean and Mrs. D. now talk of 
taking a lease of a house at Bath, if they can meet with 
one to their mind. 

My dear brother, I do long to have you acquainted 
with my friend Mrs. Ravaud; she is a most charming 
woman, and her uncommon talents are only exercised to 
make others happy and amuse herself, not by way of 
showing off, for she has the greatest diffidence of herself 
in the world, but is so good-natured and obliging that all 
who know her admire her prodigiously. As to me she 
is vastly good, and I never have a wish she does not 
perform if in her power ; she knows you, though you 
do not know her, for it is impossible for me to be so inti- 
mate with any one as I am with her and not talk of one 
who is so dear to me ; I showed her a bit of one of 
your letters the other day, and she says you write " a 
copper-plate hand." I wish you would send me the 
drawing you promised me so long ago, when you return 
to Welsbourn I hope you will ; whilst you are at Oxford 
I know your time will be too much taken up. 
Your affectionate sister, 

And humble servant, 

MARY DEWES. 




134 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

P.S. There is a fine riding-school here, and gentlemen 
and ladies go to learn, and there is a gallery where the 
company go to see them ride. If you know anybody that 
wants a coach, Mrs. Delany desires you and papa would 
be so good as to inquire, as she would sell hers, and her 
harness for six horses, which is very good. The coach 
has been made but six years, and by Wright, it cost a 
hundred and thirty pounds. This was written in the 
dark, but you used to love hieroglyphical letters. 



Miss Dewes to the Rev. John Dowes. 

Richmond, May 12th, 1767. 

Pray, if you are well enough, write me one of your 
entertaining long letters. I now wish myself at home 
to nurse you. I fancy I shall come down with papa, at 
least I hope so, as Lady Cowper will come the end of 
July. I desire you will send me some account of Mrs. 
Vernon's christening, which I hear you were at. I think 
the key of the clavichord hangs up upon one of the nails 
in the closet in the little parlour ; it has a paper tied to 
it, and wrote upon, " The key of the clavichord." We 
went to see Mrs. Foley the other day. 

Your most affectionate sister, 

And humble servant, 

M. DEWES. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 135 

Miss Dewes to the Eev. J. Dewes. 

(Bath) February 5th. 

Many thanks to you, my dear brother, for the favour 
of your letter. To begin with an inexhaustible subject 
Mr. Frampton. He dined with us last Tuesday, and was 
as entertaining as usual. He preached a sermon to us 
(at Mrs. Delany's request) upon predestination, and a 
most excellent one it was, he said he preached it at the 
Abbey three years ago ; his text was, " Whom he did fore- 
know, he also did predestinate." He said that some 
people told him it was rather too learned a discourse for 
the greater part of the congregation, upon which he 
preached again there the next Sunday (extempore as 
usual). The exact words of his text I forget, but this 
was the purport of it, " / am a debtor to the Greeks, and 
also to the barbarians ," and he began with saying, " Last 
Sunday I addressed myself to the Greeks, I now do to 
the barbarians. He did not," he said, " mean by that 
that they were a barbarous set of people, but to be sure 
they were not Greeks." He put it in much better words 
than I have done ; in short, it is doing him an injustice 
to pretend to relate anything he has said, I only wish 
you were acquainted with him ; I think his talents 
cannot long lie in oblivion. Lord Suffolk is his great 
friend; enclosed I send you some verses he made for 
Lady Maria, his daughter, and also some verses he sent 
to Dr. Delany the other day, with some verses that he 
sent to Lord Trevor, and the Dean desired to have them, 
but they will make my letter too large, so I will send them 
the next time ; you may take a copy of these, but must 
return them again, as I have no copy ; I will give you a 
fortnight to do it in, and that is very fair I Mr. F. 



136 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

repeated to us an ode he had made upon Mr. Handel, 
which I think is delightful ; he has promised to give it 
me and then you shall see it. I also send you some 
lines he wrote in an arbour ; but before I have done with 
him I must tell you that in one of his sermons in which 
he preached against the Methodists (who are most of 
them, to be sure, a strange set of people) he said, " Let 
us dismiss this unfortunate doctrine (meaning that the 
Methodists say the Liturgy favours their doctrine of 
assurance) with one petition from it "from all false doc- 
trine, heresy, and schism, good Lord deliver us." 

Mr. Lucy called here two mornings, but I was gone 
out a walking, so did not see him, but this morning the 
Dean and I went to see him. He complained of the pain 
in his face, but seemed in good spirits, and Mr. Gill 
pretty well. Mr. Lucy said Mr. Charles Mordaunt and 
Miss Mary talked of coming to Bath, do you know any- 
thing about it? The Dean and Mrs. Delany desire 
their best wishes and compliments to you and my father, 
to whom I beg my duty ; they are both pretty well 
again. My aunt desired when I wrote next to ask my 
father whether he could conveniently let her coach stand 
if they come to Welsbourne in the summer, or if she 
should have an opportunity of sending it to Welsboume. 

I heard from Lady Cowper last week ; but you nor 
my father have ever mentioned how you like her picture 
which she has given me which has arrived at Welsbourne 
before this time, I understand. Mrs. Shelley and Mrs. 
Bavaud were here this afternoon, and I am to go to the 
play with them on Monday ; Lady Trevor wanted me to 
go with her to-night, but I. refused as I am to go on 
Monday. The Dean and Mrs. Delany do not dine out 



OF MES. DELANY. 137 

anywhere, and of course I do not either, except now 
and then at my friend Mrs. Eavaud's. Lady Charleville 
invited us to dinner the other day, but we refused. Mr. 
Granville we are in daily expectation of. I saw Mr. and 
Mrs. Talbot the other day; they always inquire very 
particularly after you and my father, and desire their 
compliments he preaches almost every Sunday at the 
Abbey. Some people think his sermons are too long, for 
they generally are an hour all but ten minutes, and three 
quarters constantly, except one Sunday when he had read 
prayers and was to administer the Sacrament, he was 
thirty-five minutes ! He preaches in an afternoon for 
somebody or other likewise. 

Your most affectionate sister, 
And humble servant, 

M. DEWES. 



The Countess Cowper to Miss Dewes. 

Richmond, Jan. 21, 1768. 

I rejoice to hear my dear girl and her amiable aunt 
has got safe back to Bath. I was really quite in pain for 
Mrs. Delany, for fear the breaking up of the frost should 
have carried off the poor Dean in her absence, which 
would have made her doubly unhappy ! Thank God, I 
have escaped colds by not going out during the severe 
weather, though I ran a great risk of it by twice ven- 
turing into the next door furnace ! They have both 
had violent colds, which I do not wonder at, but, not- 
withstanding, I think them very agreeable, I could not 
live with them to be roasted every day for the Granville 



138 LIFE AND COERESPONDENCE 

blood has too much fire in itio bear stewing ! The Serpent 
seems to me very like your friend just enough to give 
him pleasure, but not enough to give him pain. He 
sometimes forgets himself and thinks aloud I One night 
at Figget's your friend was at cards, and Madame sat 
by her. He came up to the table, and said softly to 
himself (but as she heard it others might,) " Ah ! your 
dependence must be upon her, not upon me." 

By what you say of your new acquaintance I conclude 
he is caught. Perhaps Mr. W 's old wounds may bleed 
afresh ; f amour se reveille d'un rien. 

The Dean 1 has wrote to me himself from Durham, 
and is, I hope, almost well. Lord Spencer came to town 
for the birthday, but Lady Spencer was prevented by a 
cold. 

This morning Godwin 2 was married at nine o'clock at 
Richmond Church. Her relation, Coll. Godwin, paid her 
the compliment to come with the bridegroom to give 
her away. She had a new white satin nightgown and 
petticoat, a white spotted satin cloak, and bonnet trim- 
med with blond, new lace handkerchief and ruffles upon 
gauze, a clear apron, and I gave her a very handsome 
pair of stone shoe-buckles. After they were married 
they came here, and I ordered that breakfast should be 
ready for them in the steward's room Chocolate, tea 
and coffee, and as soon as they had breakfasted, I received 
them in the great room with a fire at each end. The 
bridegroom is not unlike the bride in the face not 



1 " The Dean" The Hon. Spencer Cowper, Dean of Durham, son of the 
1st Earl Cowper, and consequently brother of the 2nd Earl Cowper, the second 
husband of the Countess Cowper who wrote this letter. 

2 " Godwin" Lady Cowper's waiting woman. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 139 

vulgar, for such a sort of man ; he seems to be about 
thirty. One of her sisters came here on Monday from 
Stafford, and is to stay with her a month. The bride 
and bridegroom went from hence at eleven o'clock in one 
of their own post-chaises, and another Richmond one for 
her sister and Coll. Godwin. The bells here rang, and 
music at the door, quite in a high style ! I wish it had 
proved a fine day for them, but 'tis rather triste. 

My best compliments to the Dean and Mrs. Delany, 
and my tender love and affection to my dear girl shall 
conclude this. 

G. C. COOPER. 



Rousseau to Bernard GranviTle, Esq. 

A Crye, le 25eme Janv., 1768. 

Je n'aurois pas tarde si longtems, Monsieur, a vous 
remercier du plaisir que m'a fait la lettre dont vous 
m'avez honore le 6 novembre sans beaucoup de tracas 
qui, venus a la traverse, m'ont empeche de disposer de 
mon terns comme j'aurois voulu. Les te'moignages de 
votre souvenir et de votre amitie me seront toujours aussi 
chers que vos honnetetes et vos bontes m'ont ete sen- 
sibles pendant tout le terns que j'aie eu le bonheur d'etre 
votre voisin. Ce qui ajoute a mon deplaisir de vous 
ecrire si tard est la crainte que cette lettre vous trouvant 
deja parti de Calwich ne fasse un bien long circuit pour 
vous aller chercher a Bath. Je desire fort, Monsieur, que 
vous avez cette fois entrepris ce voyage annuel plus par 
habitude que par necessite, et que toutefois les eaux vous 
fassent tant de bien que vous puissiez jouir en paix de 
la belle saison qui s'approche, dans votre charmante 



140 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

demeure, sans aucun ressentiment de vos precMentes in- 
commodites. Vous y trouverez, je pense, a votre retouz 
un barbourillage nouvellement imprime, ou je me suis 
mele de bavarder sur la musique, et dont j'ai fait ad- 
dresser un exemplaire a M. Rougemont avec priere de 
vous le faire passer. Aimant la musique, et vous j con- 
noissant aussi bien que vous faites, vous ne dedaignerer 
peut-etre pas de dormer quelques momens de solitude et 
d'oisivete' a parcourir une espece de livre qui en traite, 
tant bien que mal. J'aurois voulu pouvoir mieux faire ; 
mais enfin le voila tel qu'il est. 

Le defaut d'occasion, Monsieur, pour faire partir cette 
lettre, rend sa date bien surannee et me la fait ecrire 
a deux fois. L'occasion rneme d'un ami pres a partir et 
qui veut bien s'en charger ne me laisse pas le terns de 
transcrire ma response a Vaimabk bergere 1 de Calwich, et 
me force a la laisser partir un peu barbouille'e. Veuillez 
lui faire excuser cette petite irre'gularite, ainsi que celle 
du defaut de signature dont vous pouvez savoir la raison. 
Kecevez, Monsieur, mes salutations empresse'es et mes 
vceux pour raffermissement de votre sante\ 

L'HERBORISTE DE MME LA DUCHESSE DE PORTLAND. 



Comme 1'exemplaire du Dictionnaire de Musique qui 
vous etoit destine avoit ete addresse a M. Yaillant, qui 
n'a jamais (illegible} pour soigner des commissions qui 
me regardent, j'en ai fait envoy er depuis un second a 
M. Eougemont pour vous le faire passer au de'faut du 
premier. 



1 L'uiinalle beryere. Miss Dewcs. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 141 



CHAPTER XX. 

17681769. 
DEATH OF THE DEAN OF DOWN. 

THE Editor does not possess any letters which give an 
account of the last weeks of the life of the Dean of Down. 
It has already appeared that Mrs. Delany returned with 
him to Delville a few months after her sister's death, 
1761 ; visited England again within two years, and 
returned to Ireland in 1763, where they were detained 
by the continued ill-health of Dr. Delany, which at last 
rendered him unequal to the performance of his duties 
during the months he was annually accustomed to reside 
at Mount Panther, and disabled him from taking the 
journey between Delville and Down : thus four more 
years were spent in unceasing anxiety on the part of 
Mrs. Delany, when in June, 1767, the Dean with his usual 
^selfishness determined to make a great effort once more 
to cross the Channel, which he probably decided upon 
with the conviction that his life could not last long, but 
urged on by his desire to restore Mrs. Delany to her own 
friends and connections, so that in the event of his death 
she might be spared any aggravation of suffering. Mrs. 
Delany accompanied him to Calwich and then to Bath, in 
the vain hope that he might be benefited as on former 



142 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

occasions, and he lingered several months, occasionally 
reviving, and then sinking. It was during one of the 
former periods that Mrs. Delany went to Town, and 
sold her house in Spring Gardens ; that house which had 
been purchased expressly for herself thirteen years before, 
when the Dean had his first serious attack of illness. 
There is little doubt that the renewal of heavy law ex- 
penses, which are mentioned in some of her letters, had 
a great deal to do with this determination, and that, sunk 
in spirits, and hopeless of his recovery, she considered 
that the greatest satisfaction to her own mind, would be 
to relieve him from anxiety as to any further claims 
after his decease by having a large sum of ready money 
in the banker's hands, more than sufficient for any pos- 
sible legal demands. She also appears to have felt at 
that time that she would not have spirit and energy to 
resettle in London alone, and that after his death, (which 
occurred four months after her house was sold,) she would 
remain at Bath for the rest of her life. Miss Dewes 
was with her at the period of that event ; the Duchess 
of Portland came to her after its occurrence, and suc- 
ceeded in persuading her that she ought eventually 
to return to London, and live amongst those who were 
most attached to her, but that a complete and long 
interval of repose for mind and body, with change of 
scene, ought first to be ensured. 

Lady Cowper expresses her "fears " in Jan y 1768, that 
the Dean might die during Mrs. Delany 's absence in 
London about the sale of her house, but he survived till 
the month of May following. His remains were con- 
veyed to Ireland, and buried in the spot of ground chosen 
by himself, which (it is said) was once part of his gar- 



OF MRS. DELANY. 143 

den, but which had been thrown into the churchyard for 
this purpose. The Editor possesses an inscription to his 
memory in the handwriting of Mrs. Delany, which is as 
follows : " Here lyeth the body of an orthodox Xtian 
" believer, an early and earnest defender of Revelation to 
"the utmost of the abilities wherewith it pleased God 
" to endow him, a constant and zealous preacher of the 
" Divine laws, and an humble wnmeriting penitent." 

This inscription, with a slight alteration, is engraved 
on the tablet to his memory, that alteration being the 
addition of " Patrick Delany, D.D. formerly Senior 
" Fellow of Trinity College, Dublin, late Dean of Down," 
with the omission of the word " unmeriting," and the 
conclusion in the following lines, " hoping for mercy in 
"Christ Jesus, he died the 6th day of May X768, in the 
" 84th year of his age." 

The style of the composition in Mrs. Delany 's hand- 
writing is so similar to that of the Dean, that it leads to 
the supposition that he dictated it himself, desiring her 
to add to or alter it at her own discretion. 

In Miss Dewes's handwriting, pinned to the same 
paper is the following account of his death : 

" Dr. Delany, Dean of Down, died at Bath on Friday, 
the 6th of May 1768, at 9 in the morning. The Sunday 
before he died he was complaining of want of sleep and 
repeated some lines which began 

' Sleep, thou Sabbath of the mind 
And greatest friend of human kind, 



Thy brother Death thy place supplies, 
And kindly seals the wretch's eyes.' 

* God of his infinite mercy seal my eyes. He will 



144 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

when He thinks fit.' ' God of His infinite mercy grant 
me patience, resignation, and submission to His will.' 

" At 6 o'clock, the night before he died, he said to Mrs. 
Smith, 1 'I thought it would all have been over long 
before this time.' 

"At 8 2 he bid his servant come and close his eyes, and 
he prayed for him, and blessed him." 

Mr. and Mrs. Sandford remained at Delville, after the 
Dean's burial, and settled the affairs there, and Mrs. 
Delany left Bath with the Duchess of Portland, when it 
appears that they both went to Mr. Granville's at Cal- 
wich, and afterwards to Bulstrode, where the following 
letters were written ; the style and tone of which not 
only prove the efforts she made to be cheerful, but the 
real commencement of returning spirit and energy. 
This part of Mrs. Delany's life is perhaps as instructive 
as any of the more exciting trials which she bore so nobly 
at an earlier period of her existence. She was now sixty- 
eight years old, she had gone through more than seven 
years of unceasing effort to support the spirits and pre- 
serve the life of the Dean from the time of her own 
severe loss by the death of her sister, and the fact of her 
intention of spending the rest of her life at Bath, proved 
that after his death she for once believed all further 
power of exertion was over ! But no sooner was she 
awakened by the representations of the Duchess of 
Portland to the conviction that there were others still 
living whom she could serve or solace, than she followed 
the plan advised by her friend for her recovery, and it 



1 Mrs. Delany's waiting-woman. 

2 " At eight." This must have alluded to eight o'clock on the Friday 
morning that he died, not to the night before. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 1-15 

will be seen that though she restricted herself to a cer- 
tain seclusion at Bulstrode, she carefully avoided all ap- 
pearance of uncontrolled grief, and unaffectedly offered 
to come down to breakfast or tea when by so doing she 
could quietly aid the Duchess without being involved in 
any scenes inconsistent with her recent widowhood, or 
distressing to her feelings. In this age of selfishness 
and absurdity, when even the outward signs of mourn- 
ing are so often rendered disgusting or ridiculous by the 
outrageous exaggeration of the types of woe, when 
envelopes are black, and purses are put into weeds, when 
collars are made of black bugles, and grief is to be mea- 
sured by the number of yards of crape, when sorrow is 
to be computed by the apparent absence of all clean 
linen, and the unhappiness of a widow is often esti- 
mated by the number of months she has been totally in- 
visible, or her sensibility extolled in proportion to the 
tears shed in company ; it is refreshing to the mind to 
read the simple journal of Mrs. Delany's life written by 
herself four months after the death of the Dean, and it 
will not perhaps be deemed too great an effort of imagi- 
nation to believe it possible that when Mrs. Delany did 
appear in the drawing-room at Bulstrode, she had not 
made herself conspicuously hideous by a white spectral 
flying cap with broad rolled hems, or a black crape 
head cover (which forbid the touch of a laundress), but 
that she may now be pictured to the mind's eye in a 
pure white narrow-bordered mob, closely fitting round 
the face, and fastened under the chin, with a hood, or a 
black veil thrown over it. 



PART II. VOL. I. 



146 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The Duchess of Portland to Miss Dewes. 

May, 1768. 

This letter was written in answer to one from Miss Dewes, 
soon after the death of Dr. Delany, though the day of the month 
is omitted. 

DEAR MADAM, 

I have this moment received your letter, and 
though it is too late for the post I cannot help telling 
you how extremely I suffer for my dearest dear friend, who 
I am sure, is in the greatest affliction. I am glad to hear 
she has cried a good deal, and wish that may be en- 
couraged, as it may prevent the bad consequences to her 
health. You certainly judged very right, dear madam, 
in opening the will ; there was nothing to be done, but 
to comply with the Dean's desire ! 

I think it very proper Mrs. Delany should have a 
house of her own, but beg she will not determine im- 
mediately, nor can I see any reason for her settling at 
Bath. Why not have a house in London ? that would 
certainly be the most advisable ; she would then be 
amongst her friends and relations, and she could spend 
every summer with her friends, who would be so happy 
to have her company. I hope she remembers how 
much I was against the selling her house in Spring 
Gardens. How vexatious that it is gone ! How long a 
time has she in this house she now is in ? I beg she 
will not take a sudden resolution, at least by no means 
to buy a house at Bath. / must intreat that scheme 
may be laid quite aside ; for I cannot bear the thoughts 
of it. I shall send to Mr. Hammersley, and talk over all 
her affairs : if he can come to me to-morrow, I may be 
able to add something to this letter. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 147 

It is a great satisfaction, dear madam, that you are 
with my amiable friend. I have some business at present, 
which I fear will keep me ten days in Town ; as soon 
as that is over, I shall fly to my dear friend, to whom 
I am most affectionately hers, and to you, 

Dear madam, a most faithful 

Humble servant, 

M. PORTLAND. 

P.S. I hope you will pardon this hasty scrawl, but 
my spirits are a good deal hurried. 

As soon as I am able to come to Bath, I shall trouble 
you with a few lines to beg you will get a lodging for 
me as near Mrs. Delany as possible. 

Tuesday. 

Mr. Hammersley has just been here ; he desires that 
Mrs. Delany will postpone proving the will, till he can 
hear from Mr. Colles, and he desires that you will send 
a copy of the will to Town, that he may send it to Mr. 
Colles, and he will write to-night to Colles to do what is 
proper in the affair ; and that you will be so good to com- 
municate everything to your brother, who has an op* 
portunity of seeing Mr. Hammersley every day. 

/ do beg Mrs. Delany will not take any resolution 
about buying a house, &c. for these six months. 



Mrs. Delany to tlie Viscountess Andover. 

Bath, 23rd May, 1768. 

Too well I know what my dear Lady Andover has felt 
for me, and I am most sensible of her goodness in her 

L 2 



148 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

kind inquiry after me, which, unfit as I am for writing, 
I cannot suffer Miss Dewes to acknowledge for me. I 
am truly grieved for your mortification on Lady Maria's 
account. Alas ! how many sorrows will she escape if it 
pleases God to make her an angel in her infancy ! My 
heart is, indeed, full ; time I hope will give it relief. 
My constant affectionate regards attend my dearest Lady 
Andover, and those she loves. 

M. D. 

The following P.S. was written by Miss Dewes : 

I must make my own acknowledgments to your 
ladyship for the honour of your letter, though I am 
grieved to hear so indifferent an account of Lady 
Maria, who I hope, has relieved all your anxiety by 
this time. Lord Suffolk was so obliging as to send 
me a note the other day, to inquire after my dear Aunt 
Delany, whose strength and spirits are not mended as 
one could wish. When she has heard a little more 
about her affairs, and is a little determined where to 
settle, she will let your ladyship know. 

I beg my kind compliments to Miss Fanny, and am, 
madam, 

Your ladyship's obliged, and most 

Obedient servant, 

MARY DEWES. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 149 

Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Whitehall, 25th August, 1768. 
Friday morn. 

I have not spoke to my dear Mary since last Tues- 
day. But I have thought of you and spoke of you every 
day. Wednesday morning I spent in looking over papers 
till I was summoned to the museum above stairs, at twelve 
o'clock, where my kind friend amused me with about a 
tenth part of the new prints and shells she has acquired 
since we last met, which, seasoned with her conversation, 
banished sad thoughts for a little while. At one o'clock, 
Lady Mansfield came. She was very obliging, and insisted 
on my making a morning visit to Kenwood, with the 
Duchess, before we went to Bulstrode. I believe we 
shall go to-morrow. After she was gone, we took a tour 
through the two parks, left a message at Lady Walling- 
ford's, and home. After dinner we sat quietly for an 
hour in the dressing-room, and then parted till tea-time. 
In the evening Mr. Hammersley came by appointment, 
and we had two hours' conversation. The papers are come 
from Lichfield (tell Bernard), and will be sent immedi- 
ately to Ireland. Mr. Hutchinson's opinion 011 the with- 
drawing of the appeal is come over, and it is thought, 
best it should be withdrawn. Mr. Hammersley seems 
satisfied that Mr. Colles is very diligent and judicious in 
his proceedings in my affairs, and they are both sanguine 
about the mortgage cause. There is no necessity, he says, 
that Delville should be sold by auction, if it is bought 
by the A.B P . of Tuam, or the Lord Chancellor, as there 
can be no doubt made of their giving the full value of 
it : forgive this long paragraph of business, which you 
will communicate to your brothers. 



150 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

I must tell you that we keep very good hours dine at 
four, sup at ten, go to our rooms at eleven. Yesterday 
morning the Duchess insisted on my going with her to 
Kensington Gore or Knightsbridge (I don't know which), 
to see Mrs. Anne Pitt's little improvements, as out of a 
very ugly odd house, and a flat piece of ground, with 
a little dirty pond in the middle of it, she has made an 
uncommon pretty place ; she says she has " hurt her 
understanding " in contriving to make it so. At our 
return we went to my Lord Carlisle's in Cleveland Court 
(nobody in Town), to see the King of Denmark, 1 who is 
in Lord Bathe's old house at St. James's, and opposite 
to Lord Carlisle's. 2 (I should have said Sir W. Mus- 
grave's.) 3 His Majesty was dressing, and the blinds down 
all but a little peep ; the Duchess had the satisfaction of 
a glimpse of him, and I of his valet de chambre ! We 
dined by ourselves as we do every day, Mr. Achard of 
our party, and had a quiet uninterrupted afternoon. I 
thank God she is much better, and I hope we shall go to 
Bulstrode on Monday. I know I must say something 
of myself : I have had a better night or two, and am 
tolerably well, but my appetite not so good as at Cal- 
wich. I must now rest. 



1 Horace Walpole, writing to Sir Horace Mann, Aug. 13, 17G8, says, 
" The puppet of the day is the King of Denmark. He arrived the night 
before last, is lodged at St. James's, where he has levees, but goes and is to 
go everywhere to Ranelagh, Vauxhall, Bath, the Lord knows whither, to 
France, to Italy ; in short, is to live in a crowd for these two or three years. 
Ho is not twenty, and is an absolute Prince." 

2 Frederick, 5th Earl of Carlisle, born 28th May, 1748, succeeded his 
father, 4th Sept., 1758. 

8 Sir William Musgrave, Bart., married Isabel, Countess Dowager of 
Carlisle, daughter of William Lord Byron, and mother of Frederick, 5th 
Earl of Carlisle. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 151 

Friday evening. 

The morning was chiefly spent in looking over part 
of Mr. Achard's collection of medals, that are very fine 
and well-preserved, and neatly set in order; we have 
got no farther than the Caesars. After dinner I came 
down to my room, as usual with an intention to go on 
with my journal. Lady Wallingford and Mrs. Pitt 1 
came, and I went up and drank tea with them : im- 
mediately after Prince Czartoriski was announced, and 
I made my escape ; but as he remembers everything and 
everybody, another summons was sent me, and I went 
up again, and as his Princess was not with him, and there 
was no form, I would not make any fuss. He is the same 
lively, well-bred man he ever was, and he and the Princess 
are to come to the Duchess to-morrow, but I shall keep 
in my cell, having much business to do in sorting papers, 
and looking over dismal things. I have just received a 
letter from my brother, and bid you good-night, and 
must read it without saying more till to-morrow. The 
visit to Kenwood put off. 

Monday morning. 

A great chasm in my journal, and I have nothing to 
add that's agreeable. On Saturday morning, the Prince 
and Princess Czartoriski came, we staid at home all day, 
the Duchess not as well as she had been for a day or 
two, and I have a little cold which prevented my going 
to church yesterday ; but I thank God it did not fall upon 
my chest, but was more on my spirits which were a 
good deal ruffled by an alarm the Duchess had of Lord 

1 Mrs. Anne Pitt, sister of the great Earl of Chatham. She was a very 
clever and eccentric woman. She was made Privy Purse to the Princess 
Dowager of Wales, and died mad, 9th February, 1781. 



152 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Edward's being ill of a fever. She went immediately to 
him, and found him very ill ; the occasion of it, a match 
at Tennis ; he was taken sick on Saturday, and brought 
up three ounces of clear blood, and was very feverish ; 
Dr. Tuxton, who attends him, had him bled immedi- 
ately, and after that he brought up two ounces more ; he 
has lost in all with bleeding, fifty ounces of blood in 
forty-eight hours ! You may imagine what a day ; the 
Duchess spent yesterday she was not allowed to see him 
for fear of raising his fever, and he was not allowed to 
speak a word. A very good account is come this morn- 
ing, and before I close my letter, hope to send still a 
better. 

Poor Sir Charles Whitworth, 1 he is absolutely run 
mad, and now under proper care for it. I am quite vexed 
at having written a facetious account of him. They say 
the sudden honours conferred on him, was undoubtedly 
the occasion, and the violent hurry of going from place to 
place, overheated his blood, just like Miss V. Such a stroke 
ought to reconcile us to the mortifications of life, as they 
humble the mind, and if properly made use of may prove 
the best means of happiness here and hereafter. This 
account of Sir C. Whitworth is certainly true. Dr. Tuxton, 
who attends Lord Edward, attended him, and never left 
him till his family came from Bath, and that he was put 
into another physician's hands. Our Bulstrode exhibition 
put off till Lord Edward is quite out of danger. I pine for 
the country, and want the sweet breezes of Calwich. I 



1 Sir Charles Whitworth, Knt., M.P. for Minehead, married, in 1749, 
Miss Shelley, daughter of Richard Shelley, Esq. His eldest .sou \vas a 
distinguished diplomatist, and was created, in 1800, Uaroii Whitworth, aud 
in 1810, Earl Whit worth. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 153 

had a pretty good night last night, and am better to day. 
I received Dr. Sandford's letter that was sent to Calwich ; 
he says he has sent the catalogue of books by Mr. 
George Boyd (a cousin of Mr. Boyd of Danson), who is 
gone to Buxton, and will leave it at Ashbourne. My 
brother perhaps will be glad to look it over, and may 
then send it by the coach from Ashbourne to Whitehall, 
if he has no readier way of sending it. Should there be 
any book or books he would like to have, I desire he 
will mark them. Lord and Lady Lifford l made a kind 
visit to Delville, and are very obliging to our friends. 

Tuesday morning. 

Lord Edward had last night a return of his fever 
and spitting of blood, but in a less degree. You 
may imagine the state of mind the dear Duchess is 
in, which with her indifferent state of health bears hard 
upon her. More physicians are called in, though Dr. 
Tuxton, who has just been here, says he is better, but 
as the fever has a fair intermission, he thinks the bark 
may be given, but he will not go on by himself; he 
has not left him night or day ever since Friday last. 
I- cannot remember who it was at Somerset house, a 
madame something, who spit blood violently, and 
was cured by the bark, but I can't recollect the particular 
circumstances, perhaps my brother can. Many thanks, 
my dear Mary, for your letter, and good account of my 
dear brother. I saw Dr. Forde 2 yesterday, who made 
many inquiries after you. The Duchess of Portland 

1 James Hewitt, 1st Baron. Lifford, Lord High Chancellor of Ireland in 
17(57. He married, first, a daughter of the Eev. Bhys Williams, and secondly, 
Ambrosia, daughter of the Hev. Charles Bay ley, of Navestock, in Essex. 

2 Dr. Forde was probably the same physician who attended Mrs. Dcwes's 
death-bed at the Hot Wells at Bristol. 



154 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

intended going to Richmond, but her own ill-health, 
and Lord Edward's has prevented her, and me of course 
(for I can't leave her) ; and though I feel much when I see 
her suffer, I can't but be glad I am with her, as her par- 
tiality to me makes me hope I am some comfort to her. 
Lady Weymouth at Bushy, and too near her time to be 
alarmed, and Lady Stamford * at a distance, and, indeed, 
most of her intimate friends out of Town. The only con- 
solation we can have, when a friend is sick or in affliction, 
is to show one's desire of being some consolation to them. 
My cold is quite gone, and I am much better to day 
than I was yesterday. I hope you will have fair weather 
for your Matlock jaunt ; I shall, in my imagination, 
enjoy some of its romantic scenes with you. The 
Duchess has shown me a sea-caterpillar she has in spirits, 
which was found at Buxton, that is beautiful ; it is one of 
the hairy ones, but all the hairs, or bristles, look like 
a rainbow. If Mr. Lucy had the eyes of a virtuoso he 
might pick up such a thing for one ? Should the misses 
go, perhaps they might, and I'll send a little sketch of 
it. I am much obliged to little Peggy for her good 
morrow. The Duchess's best compliments, and my love 
salute Calwich. The second letter directed to Calwich 
was from Mrs. Boyd, to desire me to be godmother ; 
she is not yet brought to bed. 

Nine o'clock Tuesday night. 

Dr. Warren was called in to Lord Edward ; approves of 
what has been done : a better account this afternoon, and 



1 Lady Henrietta Cavendish Bentinck, second daughter of William, 2nd 
Duke of Portland, married, in 1763, George Harry, 5th Earl of Stamford and 
"Warrin^ton. 



OF MRS. DELANT. 155 

hope in a post or too I may tell you he is past all danger. 
The Duchess as well as can be expected, and will mend 
if he does. 

Adieu. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Whitehall, 2nd September, 1768. 
(Friday, 8 o'clock morning.) 

Lord Edward Bentinck is so well again that, please God, 
we shall go to Bulstrode to-morrow ; but as I have half 
an hour to spare this morning, I dedicate it to my dear 
friends at Calwich. I have left Prince Czartoryski, Mrs. 
Anne Pitt, and Mrs. Dashwood above stairs ; the Prin- 
cess expected ; but I am more disposed to talk to my 
dear Mary than to their Highnesses. The Duchess is 
much recovered as to her health, but her spirits have 
suffered a good deal ; a month's quietness and sweet air 
at Bulstrode will be of use to us both. I wish, now I 
have begun upon so large a plan as a folio sheet, I had 
wherewithal to make it worth the trouble of reading, but 
I'll recollect all the chit chat I can. Evening. Poor Lady 
Hervey 1 died a few hours ago ; Lady Tavistock 2 very 
much recovered. Lady Weymouth saw Lady Cowper a 
few days ago, and she was very well; I am sorry we 
have not been able to go to Eichmond. Shall I tell you 
all the nonsense I hear ? To begin : the King of Denmark 
went to see Mr. Garrick act Banger ; such a crowd as was 



1 Mary Lepel, Lady Hervey, died 2nd September, 1768, aged 68. 

2 The Marchioness of Tavistock was Lady Elizabeth Keppel, daughter of 
William, 2nd Earl of Albemarle. She married, in 1764, Francis, Marquis of 
Tavistock, who was killed by a fall from his horse, 22nd March, 1767. 



156 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

in the pit, I never heard of. They were so close and so 
hot, that every man pulled off his coat and sat in his 
waistcoat ! some had sleeves, more had none, and the 
various hues made a most surprising sight ! When the 
King of Denmark came in the clapping and noise was pro- 
digious ; the poor boy looked almost frightened, but bowed 
on all sides over and over. When Grarrick came in the 
house redoubled ; his little majesty took it all to himself 
and redoubled his bows ; many of the men fainted away 
there were few or no women in the pit. He is gone now 
a northern tour. Whilst Mrs. Dashwood was at the 
Duke of Ancaster's (from whence she is but just returned) 
the King of Denmark came there to breakfast at four 
o'clock afternoon ! and went on somewhere else to 
dinner (nine at night) ! 

Lady Harrington 1 and her daughter Bell' have had a 
quarrel. Lord March, 2 it seems, is a great favourite of 
Lady Bell's. When he went away t'other day after 
paying a visit, Lady Harrington said, " I am glad he is 
gone, a frightful old fellow." Lady Bell took his part, 
on which Lady Harrington said, " I suppose he trod on 
your toes." " No, madam, not on mine, but I know he has 
on yours" Upon which repartee on repartee ensued till 
it produced a scolding scene. How despicable a figure 
those people make in the world, who have given their 
whole life up to vanity and folly ! it would be well if it 
ended here, but it too often leads them on into every sort 
of vice. 

1 William, 2nd Earl of Harrington, married, llth Aug., 1746, Caroline, 
eldest daughter of Charles, 2nd Duke of Graf ton. Lady Isabella Stanhope, 
their second daughter, married Charles William, Earl of Sefton. 

- William, 3rd Earl of March, who succeeded to the Dukedom of Queens- 
berry in 1778, on the death of his kinsman, Charles, 3rd Duke. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 157 

I am ashamed of having written you such a story, but 
the moral is good. 

Saturday morning. 

I have received the catalogue and am sorry you did 
not open it, for there is a little parcel directed to Mr. 
Mills at Norbury, with a great many thanks from Dr. 
Sandford; it is too big to send by the post, unless I 
would unroll it, and too small to send by the coach. 
Pray tell me what I must do with it ? 

Saturday morning, eight o'clock. 

Now that I see my letter by daylight I am ashamed 
to send such a blot ; but if friends will not excuse 
infirmities and mistakes there can be no scribbling with 
ease. So I proceed : Mr. Tom Monck 1 is in England, 
and -will carry back any parcel for me to Ireland. I am 
sorry my brother did not see the catalogue, that if there 
had been any particular book he had liked I might have 
marked it with my own. 

The chaises are ordered at eleven. The Prince and 
Princess Czartoryski, Countess Opeska (a friend that is 
with them), and Monsieur and Madam Williamos (all 
Polanders) come to Bulstrode to dinner next Tuesday, 
and stay till Thursday ; they leave London for Paris on 
Saturday. The turmoils of the state of Poland have 
driven them out of their own country till they are a little 
subsided. I have not seen the Princess, when I have I 
will describe her to you ; but I shall endeavour to keep 
away. (Here I rest). 

As to politics I wish I could send my brother some 



1 Thomas Stanley Monck, son of Thomas Monck, Esg., and first cousin of 
Henry Monck, who married Lady Isabella Bentinck, 



158 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

news, but at present they are quiet nothing talked of 
but the two grand divorces. The Duke of Gr's, they 
say, will not be easily brought about. Mr. Her. and 
Miss Che. will most certainly be divorced. 

Very indifferent accounts of Lord Bute, and Lady 
Bute very miserable in the country. The Duchess will 
go and see her as soon as she is well enough, and that 
she is recovered of the bustle of her company. She has 
had a great loss in regard to her birds. Ned Salmon, 
the keeper of the birds, and who had the honour of 
showing them to the king and queen, is just dead of the 
small pox to her Grace's great concern, as he was a 
nonpareil in his way. Don't imagine I have tired 
myself with my long letters ; I make several pauses, and 
the pleasure of writing to my dear Mary gives me spirit 
to go on, as I know she likes to hear from me. 

I am now reading Oldys' "History of Sir Walter 
Raleigh," and am much amused with it, as he gives so 
particular an account of that worthy but unfortunate 
man. I have had also a little family pride gratified in 
his account of our ancestor, Sir Robert Granville, who 
distinguished himself so greatly against the Spaniards ; 
where are there now such loyal and such valiant men ? As 
Sir Walter Raleigh J is a great favourite, I must tran- 
scribe some lines of a poem of his I found in Oldys ; 
he does not say to whom they are addressed. 

M But seeing that I sue to serve 

A saint of such perfection, 

As all desire and none deserve 

A place in her affection ; 



1 A Life of Sir Walter Raleigh, prefixed to his History of the World, was 
written by William Ojdys, who published several valuable works, and died 
1761. 



OF MRS. DELANT. 159 

I rather chuse to want relief 

Than venture the revealing, 
Where glory recommends the grief 

Despair disdains the healing." 

The poem is called " The Silent Lover ;" the thought 
is prettily expreseed, and one likes every trifling circum- 
stance of so great a man : it reconciles one to trifling by 
way of relaxation, when it is only the delicate finishing 
of so perfect a work. 

I thought to have kept this till next post, but then I 
should add to it, and it is long enough to tire your 
patience. 

The Duchess begs her very particular compliment. 
She was but indifferent yesterday ; is better to day, and 
happy to be at liberty. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Bulstrode, Tuesday, 6th Sept., 1768. 
8 o'clock. 

We came here on Saturday. At Uxbridge we were 
obliged to get out of our chaize, the waters were so high, 
and the bridge that is now building not yet finished, but 
only a foot bridge. I suppose the newspapers have in- 
formed you of the extraordinary inundations occasioned 
by only one night's rain on Thursday last. The Vir- 
ginia water broke head and is entirely gone, fish and all, 
and a house in its way carried off as clear as if no house 
had ever been built there ! it was surprising to see the 
water on the parade at St. James's like a great lake, and 
all the way between London and this, people labouring 



160 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

to throw up the water in pails full that overflowed the 
lower part of the houses and cellars. 

We found Bulstrode in the height of beauty within 
and without. The Duchess often wishes for my brother 
and you, and I most heartily join in the wish ; but we 
are destined to other company, and this day expect 
the grandees to dinner, but I have compounded with 
the Duchess, that if she will permit me to keep home 
till tea time, I will then wait on her and stay till supper ; 
and as an early breakfast does not agree with her Grace's 
constitution, I have promised that on those terms I will 
be her deputy at breakfast. I owe her too much not to 
make myself of some use if possible, and her spirits have 
by no means recovered the shock of Lord Edward's 
illness ; but a very good account came of him yesterday. 
On Sunday by chapel time Mr. and Mrs. Morris of 
Piercefield came (you know she is Mrs. Shipley's sister). 
After church the post-coach was ordered, and Mr. Achard 
and I went with them a tour round the park ; the 
Duchess not well enough to venture : they were indeed 
worthy of it, and took very particular notice with ad- 
miration of everything as they have as tine a place of their 
own. We had much talk of Mordaunts and all their 
connections ; the goodness of Lady Cowper to the Lady . 
Mordaunts, and her great regard for you. Mrs. Morris 
is very civil and good-humoured, but she is very 
affected and I don't like her so well as her sister; the 
youngest Miss Shipley is to be some time with Mrs. 
Morris. They staid here till yesterday twelve o'clock, 
then came Mr. Hammersley, and we had hours of law 
discourse that wore my spirits, but it was in order to 
have little more to say again about the subject ; the re- 



OF MRS. DELANY. 161 

suit was a determination that Delville, <fyc. should be sold as 
soon as possible, a thousand pound immediately remitted, 
and the overplus lodged in safe hands to be produced on 
demand, the mortgage cause pushed to be heard as soon 
as possible ; and if an account was after that ordered, 
then would be the time for some compromise. All this 
to be done before the appeal is withdrawn, which will 
not be till ten days after the meeting of Parliament. 
Mr. Hammersley to answer all my letters of business, 
and Dr. Sandford and Mr. Colles to have the ordering 
of everything on the other side of the water. This is an 
abstract of the whole, and I shall say no more about it 
till something is done worth mentioning. 

Tuesday, noon. 

The letter of attorney to empower Dr. Sandford 
to act goes next post ; but Mr. Hammersley made me 
write to him yesterday to set everything forward directly. 
This moment I have received my dear Mary's letter and 
my brother's postscript, many thanks for both. A 
courier has just brought an excuse from the Polanders. 
The Princess is ill and confined ; but if the Prince can 
leave her he comes to-morrow. We both want peace 
and rest, tho' the Duchess, I thank God, is much better to 
day. We have just breakfasted, and the little Jonquil 
parrot * with us ; it is the prettiest good-humoured little 
creature I ever saw. The chaise is at the door, we are 
going to consult about the cave. Adieu till by and by. 
I think your whim on the island 2 will be an improve - 



1 " The Jonquil parrot." This bird's picture was exquisitely worked by 
Mrs. Delany in chenille, sitting in the midst of sprays of china asters and 
holyoaks. 

2 " Island" on the River Dove at Calwich. 

PART II. VOL. I. M 



162 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

meut. I hope there is to be a chimney in it, and then 
there will be no great danger of damps ! I wish you and 
my brother much pleasure in the building, and much 
enjoyment after it is built. I walked a solitary hour 
this morning as soon as I was up, and intend doing so 
as long as the weather will permit me. That is merely 
for exercise and contemplation, for I reserve all observa- 
tions and admiration of the place and its contents for 
the hours that the Duchess and I go out together. 

I am just returned from our circuit : it would take up 
a quire of paper to tell you what I have seen this morn- 
ing only in a cursory way ; but nothing pleased me more 
than the gold and silver fish I have seen in shoals, 
thousands I am sure, all swimming up in a body to the 
Duchess, who fed them with bread, and we have spent 
our day more agreeably than if their Highnesses had 
honoured us with their company. 

Wednesday morning, (though I was not sensible of it 
at the time). I was too weary to add to my journal last 
night. I have slept pretty well and feel refreshed. 

The Duchess has a new picture of Elsheimer's l that is 
the finest and most agreeable one I ever saw I don't 
know whether my brother saw it it hangs here in her 
dressing-room, and a moonlight of Berchem's 2 as fine in 
its way. Her birds are many and beautiful, I mean those 
in cages ; for we have not yet been at the menagerie. It 



1 Adam Elsheimer, a celebrated painter, born at Frankfort-on-the-Mainc, 
1574, died 1610. An excellent artist in landscapes, history, and night pictures 
with small figures. His works are not numerous, and the great pains he 
bestowed in finishing them raised their prices so high, that they are hardly 
anywhere to be found but in the cabinets of princes. 

- Nicholas IJerchem or Berghem, a celebrated painter of landscape and 
cattle, born at Haarlem in 1024, uuil died in 1089. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 163 

is pleasant to see how she enjoys all her own possessions, 
and at the same time is so ready to give every other 
place its due. We talked an hour last night of Calwich, 
to which she gives the preference to most places she has 
seen, and lamented the weather and her illness prevented 
her walking more about there. 1 Mr. Ehret is here, and 
she is very busy in adding to her English herbal ; she has 
been transported at the discovery of a new wild plant, a 
Helleboria. Lord Edward continues to mend. 

I had a letter last post from Dr. Sandford. Mrs. 
Sandford has had a bad cold, and he but very indifferent, 
the children well. 

Thursday. 

We took another tour yesterday, and examined 
everything more minutely. Prayers between twelve 
and one brought us in. No Prince Czartoryski yet ; 
went out again in the chaise after breakfast ; saw the 
two crown birds and rams with horns standing thus : 
the wool, dark-brown and white. 
Came home at half an hour after 
four, work, a little sauntering about 
the house, and looking over prints 
finished the day ; and I left her Grace 
last night better than she has yet 
been at half an hour past eleven, which we have yet 
never exceeded. The Moncks are expected the 20th for 
some days, they then proceed to Welbeck in their way 
to Ireland. Miss Monck much better. 




1 " Prevented her walking more about" It appears from this and preceding 
allusions, that the Duchess of Portland and Mrs. Delany went to Calwich 
after they left Bath, and before they returned to London after the Dean's 
death. 

M 2 



164 



LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



The inundations alluded to in this letter (1768), were terrific. 
At Leyland, in Lancashire, on the 26th of July in that year, the 
thunder was incessant for four hours, and the rain swelled the 
Maiding brook so rapidly that it carried away the bridge and 
four houses, in one of which were inhabitants. The inundations 
in South Wales were ruinous ; in the counties of Glamorgan, 
Momnouth, and Carmarthen, torrents poured from the mountains 
and swept away men, women, and cattle, destroyed the crops, 
and laid the town of Neath under water. In the Isle of Man 
the lightning fell on a clergyman's house and struck his wife 
dead in her bed. From Inverness to Perth the country was 
flooded, and at Norwich the lightning fell on one of the city 
towers, killed a boy, and threw down part of the battlements. 
The Serpentine, in Hyde Park, rose so high that it forced down 
part of the wall, and poured with such violence upon Knights- 
bridge that the inhabitants expected the whole town to be over- 
flowed, The Canal in St. James's Park rose higher than ever 
was known, and the water flowed up to the garden-wall belonging 
to the Treasury, where the lower parts of the houses were over- 
flowed, and the sentinel near the little gate leading to Duke 
Street was obliged to quit his box. The offices under the Earl 
of Suffolk's house had water in them, and the whole of that side 
of St. James's Park and the Bird Cage Walk was overflowed. 

Colonel Morris, of the Isle of St. Vincent, bought Piercefield 
(the place mentioned in this letter), near Chepstow, in 1736 ; he 
was father of the Valentine Morris to whom it owes its celebrity, 
but who by profuse generosity and his propensity to gaming was 
compelled to retire to his estates in the West Indies, and to 
offer Piercefield for sale. Coxe relates that on his last visit to 
this favourite place, before his final departure from England, he 
surveyed his own creation with apparent composure and resigna- 
tion ; that on his return to Chepstow he was surrounded by the 
poor, who, throwing themselves on their knees, thanked him for 
the numerous instances of his bounty, imploring the blessing of 
heaven upon their benefactor. He bore this spectacle with 



OF MRS. DELANY. 165 

silent composure, and entered the chaise which conveyed him to 
London, but had no sooner crossed the bridge into Gloucester- 
shire than he heard the mournful peal of muffled bells, when he 
could no longer control his emotions, but burst into tears. He 
afterwards became Governor of the Island of St. Vincent, was 
involved in great distress on its surrender to the French, suffered 
a long imprisonment for debt, and died 26th August, 1789. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Bulstrode, 21st Sept., 1768. 

Four long days I have been without writing to my 
dear Mary. My thoughts have been more faithful than 
my pen, though much perplexed with letters of business 
regarding the things at Delville, where the appraisers 
had been at work some days by Dr. Sandford's last 
account, and I was obliged to answer some necessary 
questions about what was to be reserved, and what sent 
to England. This you may imagine has been a dejecting 
employment, and I would not begin my journal till it 
was over. I daily expect the inventory. 

The Duchess of Portland, I told you in my last, went 
to Lady Bute's. I had business to do in London, and 
went to Whitehall two hours after her, and returned on 
Saturday; worked in the evening whilst Mr. Achard 
read to me in French, for two hours, the lives of some of 
the eminent painters. 1 Sunday evening at six o'clock 
came Mr. Monck, 2 &c. ; I was obliged to exert myself to 
do the honours in the Duchess's absence. Miss Monck 
has gone through a desperate illness, and though much 



1 Abrege de la Vie des plus fameux Peintres ; avec leurs Portraits graves en 
taille-douce. Par Monsieur L'Abbe Gedouyu. 

2 Henry Monck, Esq. His only daughter, Elizabeth, married Hon. 
George Beresford, afterwards Marquis of Waterford. 



166 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

better, looks thin and tender. She is a pretty sort of 
young woman, which all things considered, is a little 
extraordinary. 

Her Grace came home to dinner on Monday, thank 
God, very well, and has her hands full in showing all the 
alterations and beauties of the place. I retire when I 
can, as being long in company is more than my spirits 
will yet bear how long they stay we cannot yet guess 
at ; the Duchess has got them tickets for the Ranelagh 
Masquerade, which is to be given by the King of 
Denmark the 7th or 8th October, so tliat of course must 
carry them to town, and they talk of going to Ireland 
before winter, and I am sure they will be imprudent to 
make it too late in the year. The Queen began the ball 
on Monday night with the King of Denmark, and the 
King danced with the Duchess of Ancaster all in the best 
spirits and good humour, and everybody pleased ; the 
Queen and Duchess of Ancaster expect to lye in in 
November, so that they could not, I suppose, dance 
more than their two dances. Lady Weymouth played 
at cards to keep herself quiet : the ball and supper lasted 
till four in the morning ! 

A thousand thanks, my dear Mary, for your letter 
from Matlock, which gave me very great pleasure ; but 
I believe I told you so before I sealed my last. I am 
impatient to know how your cold bath continues to 
agree with you. I hope as it is a salutary thing, use will 
make it pleasant. 

I have got Swift's last three volumes of letters, and 
to my very great mortification find six or seven letters of 
Mrs. Pendarves' there ! l I have searched for what she 



1 Letters written by herself, wlieu Mrs. Peudarves, to Dean Swift. 



OF MRS. DEL ANY. 167 

said of Bath, but don't find anything particularly said of 
the place; one letter dated from thence mentions her 
hopes of seeing Swift there, and she speaks of living in 
Ireland as much cheaper than London ! 

Thursday. 

Have you heard lately from Lady Sarah Poole l and 
Miss Caulfield ? when you write assure them of my 
best wishes and compliments. Has Mr. Mills got the 
little roll of paper Dr. Sandford sent from Ireland with 
the catalogue of books? and has Mrs. M. been able 
to match the Manchester quilting for me? if she has, 
I beg you will be so good as to pay her for me, beside 
my acknowledgment. I have had the pleasure lately of 
hearing from Welsbourne that they are all well. I am 
afraid the wet weather has given a great check to your 
pleasures at Matlock ; I hope you will all escape cold, 
and that your cold bathing will make you invulnerable 
that way. Mr. Monck has kept his bed two days past 
with a feverish cold a panic, least a fit of the gout 
should seize him here. 

When you have finished your screen, I desire you will 
pack up my chenilles ready for me when you have an 
opportunity of sending them. I find no other work 
amuses me sufficiently, and my head will not bear read- 
ing a great while together. My mornings in London 
will be long, and company, (unless of a very particular 
friend,) rather fatigues than entertains me ; but I am in 
no haste about them, as I shall hardly be in a settled 
way till towards Christmas. 



1 Lady Sarah Poole was the only daughter of Edward, 5th Earl of 
Drogheda. She married William Pole, of Ballyfin, Esq. There was a 
connection between the families of the Earl of Drogheda and of Caulfield, 
Bad of Charlemont. 



168 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Friday. 

Sir William Musgrave is expected here to day, 
which I am glad of for the Duchess's sake ; they will 
botanize charmingly (and I shall come in for some scraps 
of knowledge), and make up for the dulness of other 
company. I pity the girl, she looks melancholy and 
dejected; they are not yet determined whether they 
shall stay in England this winter or not. I wish them 
at home, for they are a sad interruption on our retire- 
ment. I have been so touched with the enclosed epitaph 
that I could not help transcribing it for you, though it is 
likely you have seen it in the newspaper. More authen- 
tic accounts this morning of the ball at the Queen's 
house ; the Queen danced, beside minuets, four country 
dances with the King of Denmark. The King danced 
all night, changing partners as the rest did every two 
daflces, and finished with Lady Mary Lowther l and the 
Hemp-dressers, that lasted two hours. The whole very 
clever and agreeable and nothing e*lse at present talked of. 
Sir William Musgrave just come in ; if he brings any chat 
I will add it in the evening. My love to my brother and 
Banny. Hope my brother has got free from his painful 
complaint, and that the dampness of the season will not 
return his rheumatism. Mr. Monck very bad, has been 
bled to day ; they think his complaint the gout on his 
lungs. Poor Mrs. Chambers has been bit by the house 
dog, which has terrified her, though the dog is not mad, 
and did it in play. Her hand is very painful, and swells 
every night ; the Duchess is so uneasy about it, that she 
is going to send her to town to Mr. Hawkins. If I 



1 Lady Mary Lowther, wifo of James, afterwards created Earl of Lonsdale, 
(1784,) and daughter of Johu, 3rd Earl of Bute. 



OP MRS. DELANY. 



169 



hear nothing new I shall add no more, but conclude with 
assuring you, I am 

Affectionately yours, 

M. D. 

The following is the Air and the directions for dancing the 
Hempdresser, (which King George III. danced with Lady Mary 
Lowther for two hours,) as given in " TJie Compleat Country 
Dancing Master." Published by J. Walsh, 1718. 




.L"*'^ m -- 

rr L n_ 




Lead up all a D. forward and 
back J_ That again J_ First 
man change places with the 
2nd wo._ Then with the 3rd 
man J_ Then with the 4th 
woman Jj_ Then with the 5th 
man ' ' . Then with the 6th 
and so on to the last. 

Sides allj_ Lead up as 
before. As before, the wo. 
doing it : : All do this 
changing as before. 



D. stands for Double, 
closing both feet. 

_ Denotes the strain of a tune play'd once over. 
_L The strain twice over. 
' : The strain thrice over. 



Sides all J_ That again _j_. 
First cu. cross over, fall into the 
2nd place Jj_ Cross again, fall 
into the 3rd place _^ Cross 
again, fall into the 4th placej_ 
and so to the end, every cu. 
doing the like. 

Arms all _^ That again J_ 
Turn your own wo. changing 
places _J_ Turn each the 2nd_j_ 
Turn each the 3rd _i_ Turn 
each the 4th and so to the last, 
the rest following. 

Explanations. 
A double is four steps forward and backward, 



370 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Bulstrode, 4th Oct., 1768. 
Tuesday morn. 

The dear Duchess I think better reconciled to Lord 
Edward's going abroad ; and indeed is now solicitous he 
should go, as she finds it the physician's positive opinion 
he should spend this winter in a dryer climate. He writes 
in good spirits, and that has cheered her : but I own I 
am very apprehensive he is in a bad way. He goes the 
latter end of this month, which I fear will carry us from 
this sweet tranquil place even before Lady Weymouth 
sends a summons, as the Duchess wishes to see him 
before he goes. On Saturday we lost our company, and 
endeavoured to sustain our loss philosophically ! We 
had recourse to plants, to books, and to work. Sunday 
after chapel the Duchess carried me a very pleasant airing 
through a riding she has had cut through a wood, 
three miles and half long, that joins to her park and 
goes out on the common, which from a brown, dreary- 
looking heath, she will by her bounty and good taste 
make very pleasant ; but I believe the frequent stops we 
made to examine plants and funguses increased the pain 
in her face, but she was better last night. She devoted 
yesterday morning to writing, and I have of late been 
so overpowered, with it, that I would not even begin my 
journal to Calwich, (which is a refreshment and not a toil 
to me,) but I took a basket of food for the creatures, 
fed them, and walked an hour and three quarters, so 
much amused with the variety I met with and the de- 
lightfulness of the place, that it for some time banished 
sad thoughts, and I was not sensible I had walked rather 



OF MRS. DELANY. 171 

too much till I came home and sat down. I was chid 
by my kind friend, who says she will not trust me again 
alone ; but I thank God I had a pretty good night, and 
find myself to-day not the worse for my walk ; part of 
my time was spent in the cave settling what was to be 
done in our absence. How often in my walk did I wish 
for my dear brother and niece, who would have been 
pleased, and added to my enjoyment of it. And now it 
is time to thank you for your letter of the 25th 
September. The Duchess, who desires her best compli- 
ments to Calwich, will be much obliged to Mr. Granville 
for the red pear plum, and hopes it will not be trouble- 
some to him to look out for the fern, as this is the best 
time of the year to find it, and take it up. She wishes 
it could be convenient to him to make her a visit when 
she returns next to Bulstrode, though not an advanta- 
geous time for seeing the place ; but should any scheme 
bring him this way, perhaps he would call, it would 
really give her pleasure, and make me very happy. I 
hope we shall stay here till near Christmas. I have 
already answered you about my half petticoat. I hope 
by this time Mr. Hill 1 has got his plan safe, it was 
sent a fortnight ago. I must again desire you not to 
give a copy of the verses of " Holyrood House," for I 
was not to take one ; they are fine and affecting, but I 
have not kept a copy. The author was a Sir Gilbert 
Eliot, 2 and he gave them with an injunction they should 



1 Arthur Hill, Esq., younger brother of Trevor, 1st Viscount Hillsborough. 
On the death of his grandfather, Sir John Trevor, in 1762, Mr. Hill assumed 
the name of Trevor, and in 1765 was created Baron Hill and Viscount 
Dunganuon. 

2 Sir Gilbert Eliot, father of the celebrated General Eliot, created Lord 

' 



c^ovi 

ji rr. 



172 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

not be given away, so I am sure you will be true to your 
trust. I hope Mr. Lucy returned from Scarborough in 
good health, and that you find your cold bathing has 
agreed with you. 

Tuesday evening. 

Dr. Sandford made the Archbishop of Tuam the offer 
of Delville. He said he heard the Chancellor had a mind 
to it, and desired the first offer might be made to him, 
which was very friendly ; but the Chancellor, who sent 
his compliments and thanks, is in treaty for Mr. Mitchel's 
place at Glassenivin, the banker that died lately. I 
have not yet got the Archbishop's answer. I wish I 
could add any entertaining chatter. We hear of nothing 
but the King of Denmark's feasting, &c., and the pre- 
parations for his royal mask ball, which is to be at the 
Haymarket, and not at Eanelagh, as was at first designed. 
I suppose all the triseurs of Paris and London will hardly 
be sufficient for the demand there will be, as everybody 
will try to outvie their brother beau and sister belle 
in fancy on the occasion. I have had a letter from Mrs. 
Preston, who talks of coming to England. Mr. Preston 
comes to leave his eldest son at Oxford. 

The Duchess and I took a short walk in the morning, 
and were driven home by the rain. A pretty and un- 
common scene is now before me on the lawn : a flock of 
sheep, shepherd and dog at a little distance, and in the 
foreground (to talk like a painter) fifteen or sixteen hares 
feeding with peacocks and guinea-fowl, that make a beauti- 
ful mixture of pretty objects ; but pleasing as all the 
scenes are here, I frequently elope in my mind, and walk 
by the waters of Calwich to the rock and the Fairy Pool, 



OF MES. DELANY. 173 

and all its agreeable environs, in the company of my 
dear friends there. 

The last account of Lord Bute was that he was better ; 
he had left off the waters at Barege, as they thought 
they did not agree with him, but he has begun them 
again. Mr. Ehret is very busy for the Duchess of Port- 
land, he has already painted above a hundred and fifty 
English plants, and now they are collected together 
their.beauty is beyond what we have a notion of, parti- 
cularly the water plants ! but poor Ehret begins to com- 
plain of his eyes, he has hurt them with inspecting leaves 
and flowers in the microscope in order to dissect them. 

Surely an application to natural beauties must enlarge 
the mind ? Can we view the wonderful texture of every 
leaf and flower, the dazzling and varied plumage of birds, 
the glowing colours of flies, &c. &c., and their infinite 
variety, without saying, " Wonderful and marvellous art 
thou in all thy works!" And this house, with all be- 
longing to it, is a noble school for such contemplations ! 
Smith, who desires her duty, says, she " does not think 
that the Curiosity House in London is so curious as 
this." Adieu, my dear. Every kind wish to Calwich. 

I am ever yours, 

M. D. 

The ball the Princess of Wales gave was magnificent 
and agreeable, but there was nothing so pretty as the 
two little Princes 1 dancing an Almand and two country 
dances together. 

1 The two little Princes must have been George Prince of Wales, and 
Frederick Duke of York. 



174 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The Countess Cowper to Miss Dewes. 

Richmond, Oct. 9th, 1768. 

I have been longer than usual in my dearest girl's 
debt, but it is not for want of thinking of her, but going 
out in the morning and company has prevented me 

writing ; but I have wrote to and have received 

an answer. I never write letters of condolence, as I 
think them absurd, and as you were with her, and I 
wrote to inquire after her through you, I cannot say I 
think there was any room for complaint, and I cannot 
possibly make the * * of * * a visit until she 
has been here ; but I wrote cheerfully and took no notice 
of the hint you had given me. 

You had sad dibble-dabble weather for your party to 
Matlock. How did it turn out ? All sunshine within 
doors I do not doubt. Nothing is now talked of but the 
masquerade to be given at the Haymarket on Monday 
next by his Danish Majesty. I wish you were in town 
that I might give you my ticket ; I shall not make use 
of it myself, as I am of Solomon's opinion that there is a 
" time for all things" Lady Frances Bulkeley left me 
with tears in her eyes on the 26th of last month. I was 
very sorry to part with her, and have now invited Lady 
Mary Mordaunt I have not seen her a great while. I 
had a party at home on the 1st inst. Two quadrille 
tables in the gilt drawing-room, and the dressing-room 
lighted up for those that were desreuvres. I have many 
new things to show you. I now am got into the room 
below stairs, which I have only new ceiled and corniced, 
floored, wainscoated, and hung with paper of my own 
bespeaking (which I am sure you will like), new covered 
the sofas, and made lustring window-curtains ; in short 



OF MRS. DELANY. 175 

the room is jolie, jolie, and only wants the presence of 
my sweet girl to make it quite to my taste. 

Poor young Yeaman had lost all his complaints at 
Lisbon, but here all his former complaints are returned, 
and he is determined to go back to Lisbon. I fear he 
will not live to get there ; it is a pity he came away, as 
he has no chance in this climate. Poor young man ! he 
seems quite resigned, and will not let his brother be with 
him for fear of infecting him. The father is vastly dis- 
tressed, and spares no cost ; my heart quite bleeds for 
them. 

.Mrs. Clutterbuck is just come in, and desires her 
compliments to you. Mine to Mr. Granville and your 
brother Bernard. I hope all are well at Welsbourne 
not forgetting your agreeable friend Mrs. Mead. My 
sister Shelburne 1 has a second son, and is pure well. I 
shall make her a visit after the tenth day is over. 
, Lord Fitzmaurice says he "loves Aunt Cow better 
than Aunt Tweed." I am in a rapture with him, but I 
own I only love pretty children. I have not forgot little 
Mun. and hope he is well. Adieu, ma tres chere. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Bulstrode, 10th Oct., 1768. 

Many thanks to you, my dear Mary, for your letter of 
the 2nd, which I received on Friday ; and as you say 



1 Sophia, daughter of John, Earl Granville, by his second wife, Lady 
Sophia Fermor, married, in 1765, William, Ear] of Shelhurne, by whom she 
left one son, John, who succeeded as 2nd Marquis of Lansdowne, 1805. He 
married Lady Gifford, but died without issue, 1809, and was succeeded by his 
half-brother, Lord Henry Petty, the present Marquis of Lansdowue (1861.) 



176 LIKE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

my brother has some thoughts of going soon to Wels- 
bourne, I write the sooner for fear the birds should be 
flown and miss my letter. When you are at Welsbourne 
pray take my things out of your little japan cabinet (the 
key of which you will find fastened to one of the 
handles), and pack them up in a box ; when your brothers 
go to London they can carry them there for me. 

I should be surprised if music did not go on well with 
you, with your industry and such a master. 1 I cannot 
yet bear the sound of my own fingers, though the 
Duchess has had her harpsichord tuned twice. 

Last Thursday we went to Old Windsor to see Mr. 
Bateman's, which I had not seen since his converting it 
from the Indian to the Gothic. Its outward appearance 
is venerable arched porticos and windows, Gothic towers 
and battlements, encompassed and shaded with large 
trees, the verdure fine, the river winding most beautifully ; 
an island at a little distance, with many pretty cir- 
cumstances that make the situation (when floods don't 
prevail) most delightful. The inside of the old mo- 
nastery (for such it is to represent), is not so easily de- 
scribed ; it is below stairs divided into four very small 
rooms, and a passage, all filled with an innumerable col- 
lection of china, japan, and knick-knacks. The walls are 
embossed with undescribable oddities brought from all 
corners of the world ; the chairs, the tables of all forms 
and sizes. His windows are glazed with as much variety 
as a glazier's sign, but he has picked up a vast quantity 
of pretty old painted glass. His library is indeed as 
fribblish as himself, and so furnished with looking-glass 



I lor uncle, Mr. (.Jranvilli-. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 177 

that had it the property of representing to him his inside 
as well as outside, it might read him a better lesson than 
he could find in his whole collection of books, and shew 
him his own insignificancy. You'll say I am satirical, 
I don't mean to be so, but I was a little provoked at his 
chapel, which is within his dressing-room. It is not 
above eight feet square, or rather an octagon ; it is an 
exact representation of a popish chapel expensively deco- 
rated not a circumstance omitted, and more than I can 
enumerate ; but all I can say of it, it is like peeping 
through a show-glass in a box. There are many cruci- 
fixes in it, ivory figures of saints, crowns, and crosses set 
with sapphire, a little case called the treasury filled with 
rosaries, crosses, and a thousand things relating to cere- 
monies that I don't understand ; and it is so adorned, so 
crowded, that it is almost impossible to distinguish one 
thing from another, but what must offend every seri- 
ous observer must be the intent of this chapel, for if he 
does not make use of it in good earnest, his making a 
joke of it is shocking ; and at least he should have omitted 
the sacred figure, which ought to strike us with awe and 
reverence, besides nobody can justify turning any religion 
into ridicule, though some ceremonies may be trifling 
and absurd, but I don't suppose he desires to be thought 
a papist, and perhaps he would rather be thought a 
heathen ! 

You go up a narrow staircase to the bedchambers, 
which are all fitted up whimsically ; two of the rooms are 
pretty enough and cheerful, two more that are called " the 
monkish apartments " are dismal dark cells that would 
give one the vapours to inhabit. Were I to particularize 
all I saw within and without the house the vestibules, 

PART. II. VOL. I. N 



178 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

the ." refectories," the " monuments," &c., &c., you would 
think I was quoting old Dugdale ; but as I should fall 
far short of him, I'll not attempt it, and what I have said 
is only to you and my brother, for my visit answered the 
Duchess's kind intention, and amused me very much ; 
besides I had the pleasure of seeing Lady Primrose, for 
whom I have a real regard, and she had so great an 
esteem for my late friend that I must always regard her. 
Is the Island House finished, and how do all the living 
creatures ? I thank you for your epitaph, it is very 
pretty. I wanted to repeat to the Duchess of Portland 
Lord Delawarr's 1 verses on his sister and Jemmy Pelham, 
but can't recollect them, pray send them to me. I wish 
I were able to exert myself enough to amuse her at this 
time ; for her spirits are very low in hourly expectation on 
Lady Wey mouth's account, and very anxious about Lord 
Edward, indeed I fear with great reason, for he is cer- 
tainly in a dangerous way. I wish he was gone abroad, 
as his physician thinks it is necessary, but am appre- 
y hensive it is too late, and it will be a terrible shock to 
my dear friend. I beg my love to my brother, and tell 
him I make no apology for not writing to him whilst he 
hears so much of me from you. The Duchess desires her 
best compliments to both, so does Mr. Achard. Adieu. 

We had yesterday for dinner a gold pheasant (but not 
one of the Duchess's acquaintance) ; it was yellow, both 
the outward skin and the flesh, and I think it rather 
better than a common pheasant. What a scrawl this 
is ! it makes me blush ; but have been forced to finish 
it by candlelight, and my eyes are bad. 



1 John, 2nd Earl of Delawarr, born in 17i'!i. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 179 

Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 
Friday morning. Whitehall, 14th Oct., 1768. 

Now I must regale myself with my dear Mary. I 
thank her for her letter dated the 8th, which gave me 
a kind salute on my arrival at Whitehall, and made 
me amends for leaving the delices and tranquillity of 
Bulstrode. We had a fine day for our journey ; and it 
was lucky, for the chief postillion and his horse tumbled 
down, and we were obliged to get out of the chaise in 
the middle of the road ; at first the shock was very great 
as we had reason to think the man must be very much 
hurt, if not killed ; but, providentially, he was neither 
only his leg a little bruised ; but it was a frightful sight, 
and we neither recovered it for the day. We called on 
Lord Edward Bentinck ; the Duchess went up to him 
and found him in bed with a blister on, and very low, 
though she says he does not look thin or pallid ; his 
spitting of blood has not returned; but they cannot get 
the better of his fever, and his blood is very bad. There 
is to be another consultation of physicians to day to 
determine positively whether he shall go abroad. I 
believe they will agree to it; for by all account his 
chance will be very small of recovering if he stays. It is 
impossible for me not to feel for my dear friend, who 
suffers a great deal. Thank God, Lady Weymouth and 
her bouncing girl are very well, and that keeps up 
the Duchess's spirits at present. We took her in our 
way to Whitehall, and I made a visit to the nursery ; 
the rest of the children are at Bushy. The Duchess 
went again in the evening to see her children, and I 
sat me down to consider how to pursue my own business. 
Yesterday was a day of trial with me ; I examined all 

N 2 



180 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

the books, that are to be appraised to-day or to-morrow, 
and I will dispose of them as soon as I can, laying by the 
money, which I am to be responsible for. I have found 
my prints and drawings at the bottom of one of the 
cases (pray tell your brother). 

I hope you and my brother had a pleasant and safe 
journey, and the satisfaction of finding all well at Wels- 
bourne ; my love and best wishes attend the whole 
society. I have seen nobody since I came ; but I hear 
the masquerade at the Haymarket 1 was fine and costly 
and i7/-attended ; the Duke of Richmond was dressed 
like a farmer, with a sample of wheat ; the Duchess as 
the Fatima described in Lady Mary W. Montague's 
letters. One lady was Night and Day : her right side was 
gold and white, to represent the sun ; her left side the 
moon and stars in silver on a black ground ; her head I 
suppose was terrestrial, and that it served for an eclipse ! 
that's my own conjecture. I believe you have seen 
in the newspapers an account of the Welbeck masque- 
rade ; but lest it should have escaped you I inclose it 
with Mrs. Montague's account. She gives me a very 
indifferent account of her own health ; she has such a 
shortness of breath and palpitation that she can with 
difficulty go upstairs, or even cross a room ; but the 
entertainment that beat all others was given by the 
Duke and Duchess of Northumberland 2 at Sion. There 



1 Oct. 10th, 1768. "The King of Denmark gave a superb masked-ball at 
the Haymarket, at which were present the greatest number of nobility and 
gentry ever assembled together upon any occasion of the like nature. It is 
computed that not less than 2,500 persons of distinction were present. The 
illuminations were particularly splendid." 

2 Sept. 12th, 17GB. " The entertainment given to the King of Denmark at 
Sion House, by the Duke and Duchess of Northumberland, was remarkably 



OF MRS. DELANY. 181 

was a temporary pantheon erected in the court round 
which the house is built, which was illuminated with 
four thousand lamps in variety of pretty forms ; the 
King of Denmark's cypher on four parts of the build- 
ing. Nothing could be more suited to a royal entertain- 
ment ; and though there were above three hundred in 
one room not the least bustle. Twenty persons of the 
King of Denmark's own choosing dined and supped at 
his table, and he expressed great pleasure and admira- 
tion at every thing. He is gone, to the great regret of 
the populace, but I pity his poor queen, who must be 
sadly tantalized to hear of all these fine doings and not 
have any share of them. 

I hear that Lord Bute is much better ; the waters of 
Barege have at last agreed with him, and his appetite 
very much mended. 

The Duchess of Portland, with her kind compliments 
to you, desires you will make hers to Mr. Granville, and 
return him many thanks for the plants he has been so 
good to send her, which she hopes will come safe, and 
for the great trouble she is sure he has had about the 
fern. She hopes in the spring it may be found. 

Noon. 

The physicians (Heberden, Warren, and Tuxton,) 
have all agreed Lord Edward must go abroad without 
loss of time ; he takes a surgeon with him, and only 
waits now till lie is ready to go ; which I hope will be 
soon, as it may hereafter be a consolation to his dear 
mother that nothing was neglected ; but I fear it is too 

grand ; an inexpressible variety of emblematical devices were illuminated with 
more than fifteen thousand lamps, and the temple erected in the inner court 
was ornamented with transparent paintings that had a very happy effect." 



182 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

late. He has amiable qualities, is addicted to no vice ; 
but he has a youthful love of pleasures, which, though 
innocent in themselves, have hurried him on too fast. 
I am glad you have heard from my dear Mrs. Sandford, 
and that you have written to her, which I know will be 
a cordial to her in the midst of the sad hurry and 
business she and Dr. Sandford have been engaged in on 
my account ; they have shipped most of the things I 
desired might be sent, and Sir William Musgrave has 
promised to take care of them for me when they come ; 
and with what I have already the apartment I have here 1 
is crowded like an auction-room, as the rooms are small. 
I have unpacked the trunk of clothes that came from 
Bath, and found many of the things stained with wet 
that had got to them, and everything very damp. No 
words can express the Duchess's goodness to me ; her 
most kind attention and her friendly pressing me to 
remain with her as long as convenient ; but I am myself 
unequal to the way of life unavoidable here of late 
hours and company, which latter I can very well avoid 
at present, but some time hence not so easily, which 
makes me think it most prudent to seek after a house in 
good earnest, which hitherto I have only done at a 
distance. I was told of one yesterday, and went to see 
it ; the place is called Catherine-wheel Lane ; it is behind 
the Thatched House Tavern in St. James's Street ; but 
it is not near enough to be at all incommoded by it ; it is 
very small, but both prettily and conveniently situated ; 
the front faces a cross street now called Little St. James's 



1 "The apartment I have Jiere." Mrs. Delany forgot she was writing at the 
Duchess of Portland's house, Whitehall, and she alluded to the apartments she 
had engaged in London. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 183 

Street, and the back looks into the Duke of Bridgewater's 
garden very pleasantly, and a coach drives very well to 
the door, and people of fashion live in the row. The land- 
lord is a man of good character, and is going to fit it up, 
and will make any alterations I shall desire ; it is to be 
entirely new painted, &c., and the best rooms new 
sashed ; it has been built about five and thirty years. 
It cannot possibly be finished before Christmas, at 
which time, if I agree with him, the rent will commence ; 
but I shall not hurry into it ; it will be some employ- 
ment and amusement to settle my things in it ; and its 
being so near the park, the chapel, and Whitehall makes 
it very tempting. The landlord is to paper the rooms 
in the manner I like. And now farewell. I shall not 
seal till to-morrow; if I hear anything worth adding 
you shall have it. 

Ever most affectionately yours, 

M. D. 

The Moncks have made me a morning visit ; they go 
to Ireland the end of this month. I hope to hear a 
favourable account of Mr. Pole. Poor Lady Sarah ! I 
hope I shall be less oppressed when all my sad affairs 
are at an end. 

The man that owns the house says he will not let it 
under seven years' lease if he makes the alterations I 
require; but if any alteration happens he will imme- 
diately take it off my executors' hands, or if I don't like 
it I may let it to any body I please. He seems fair in 
what he says. 



184 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The following composition, found among the MSS. of Mrs. 
Delany, probably has reference to the lady who represented 
Night and Day. 

" The Manifesto of Phebus, Lord of the Skies, to Night, 
Queen of the Earth, 

Setting forth that since the elements have been kept 
in decorum and as long ago as chaos was first set to 
rights he had always made a considerable figure, had 
been ever held the brightest body, that he was formerly 
the light of the world, was worshipped by a great nation, 
admired by the philosopher, courted by the husband- 
man, watched in every motion by the mathematician, 
and celebrated by the poet ; that he was the parent of 
wit and gold, powerful in mighty matters, and necessary 
in small ones ; that not a genius or a cucumber could 
ripen without his help ; then for his excellency nothing 
could compare with him, the brightest could not shine 
in his presence, and he tarnished the finest complexion 
he looked upon ; that the sage got up when he rose, and 
the lazy would not go to rest till he was withdrawn ; 
that his appearance had in the finest places been always 
thought the greatest ornament and his influence courted 
by every thing in nature, but that he had lately been 
eclipsed by a Night whom all the world preferred to day, 
who has outshone him and put out every star whom he 
used to permit to appear in his absence ; that this Night 
being already more admired, more worshipped, and more 
gazed at than himself, he expects to see himself deposed 
and her crowned in his stead, and must now be obliged 
to sit away his time with old Thetis, send his steeds a 
grazing, and sell his chariot to the next beau who is 



OF MRS. DELANY. 185 

made Grand Master to the Free Masons : Phebus thinks 
this usurpation most hard, and that the world will 
repent the revolution. He shines upon all, but she much 
distinguishes persons, and is singularly partial to merit ; 
that for his part clouds and vapours often obscure his 
brightness and relieve the eyes of his admirers, but she 
shines continually, never darkened or eclipsed, is con- 
stantly an object of admiration ; that he oftener rises and 
sits unobserved than she does, and is less the subject of 
idolatry ; he complains that she has seduced his subjects, 
even his particular votaries. The diligent prefer her to 
the busy day, the wise to the early hour of contempla- 
tion, the beau to the time of dressing, and the parson had 
rather see her than his dinner at noon. As for ancient 
Night, she was a melancholy, civil, sober suited old 
gentlewoman, who used to wrap the world in her sable- 
scarf during his absence ; she used indeed to wink upon 
some iniquity, being of a dark and secret temper, and 
unapt to discover what she knew, and this indulgence 
was often abused ; but she was really a good kind sort 
of woman, and a favourer of rest and quiet. That the 
Night he complained of was the dread of those to whom 
the other was most a friend, and kept more eyes awake 
than the other closed. These things considered with his 
promise to dazzle and scorch less than the fair Night the 
world so much admires at present, he hopes his subjects 
will fall into their obedience again. 

PHEBUS. 
Given at our Palace of Brightness in Sky Region." 



186 LIFE AND COKRESrONDENCE 



The Countess Cowper to Miss Dewes, at Wclsboume. 

Richmond, Oct. 16th, 1768. 

I wrote to my dearest girl last week, which I hope she 
has received, and that this will find her safe arrived at 
her beloved Welsbourn, where I am sure she was joyfully 
received ; but I flatter myself the best of men will spare 
you a little to me, and let you come up when your 
brothers come to town, which I conclude will be next 
month. 

I went on Thursday last to town in the morning to 
see my sister Shelburne, who has had a very good lying- 
in, and her child looks strong and likely to live. Next 
week I shall pay a visit upon the same occasion to Lady 
Wey mouth. 

The King of Denmark's masquerade was too much 
crowded, but very splendid. Lady Spencer was one of 
the finest. I lent her my diamond stomacher, which, 
added to her own jewels, made her very brilliant. Her 
outward dress was white lustring, spotted with silver, 
and her inward blue and silver. Lord Spencer had a 
pale blue lutestring domino, trimmed with a darker blue 
in chenille and gold, and was a fine figure, and had white 
leather shoes with blue and gold roses. Miss Shipley 
went with Lady Spencer and looked quite pretty, as she 
told me, but she distressed her greatly by fainting away 
at the masquerade ; the Duke of Cumberland held her, 
and kept the crowd off her till she recovered. 1 think 
I shall now convince my neighbours that I have no " curi- 
osity," as I have actually not seen the King .of Denmark ! 

We go on here as usual. I have kept a letter I re- 



OF MRS. DELANY. 187 

ceived in the summer to show you, and then shall 
burn it. 

Till I got to Salisbury I did not know that I was to 
go to Devizes in my way to Bowood. I should, I be- 
lieve, have desired Mrs. Eavaud to have met me there ; 
though the Bath road brought to my remembrance 
sorrowful scenes, and I think I was hardly ever lower 
than the night I lay at Reading, in my return home. 

My best compliments to le cher pere, les chers freres, 
et la chere amie ; et je suis, 

Ma tres chere, 

Toute a vous, 

GK C. COWPER. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Whitehall, 17th Oct., 1768. 

Though I don't know positively where my dear 
brother and niece are, the moon told me last night that 
you were kindly thinking of me, and if she has any 
fidelity in her she told you the same of me ! I begin a 
day or two before I intend sending away my letter that I 
may not write to my dear Mary in a hurry, as it is pay- 
ing the friend one delights to converse with a bad com- 
pliment to give them the refuse of one's time ; mine has 
been, ever since I came to Whitehall, spent but in a 
melancholy way, but I am glad to get every necessary 
business over as fast as I can. 

Lord Edward's illness is so alarming that it is im- 
possible for me not to feel what my friend does, and I 
fear must suffer. He is to set out for Nice to-morrow 
or Wednesday, if he is able. 



188 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Yesterday evening Sir William Musgrave came. He is 
very conversable, and told us abundance about the King 
of Denmark, whose absence is much lamented by the mob I 
He threw out of the window the day before he went an 
hundred and fifty guineas among them, and he gave a 
thousand pound among the king's servants, and presented 
Lord Hertford l and Lord Talbot 3 with very fine snuff- 
boxes set with diamonds. He did the same to Mr. 
Garrick. His travelling, they say, is to conquer a fancy 
he has for a young lady in Denmark, and that he dis- 
likes his wife extremely ! 

What unhappy wretches are some Princesses ! how 
they are sacrificed ! It is to be hoped they all have not 
the tender affections of their happier subjects. 

Mr. Selwyn says, that the King of Denmark and his 
favourite are strollers that act the part of our king and 
Lord B. 

I am sure when you communicate the chatter of this 
babbling world you don't name authors. 

The Duke of Northumberland, when the King asked 
him, if it was not very difficult to have four thousand 
lamps lighted in time, said, " No, for he had two 
hundred lamp-lighters for that purpose." I fancy that 
was a stretch, and that a dozen might have done the 
business. 

Are Mr. M. and Miss P. to be married ; here they 
say he is to have Lord Warwick's daughter. 

Pray look among the poems, &c. that used to be in 
the bureau in Mr. Dewes's room, for a dialogue between 



1 Francis, 1st Earl of Hertford, was in 17b'G nominated Lord Chamberlain 
of the Household. 

3 William, 1st Earl Talbot, Lord Steward of the Household to George III. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 189 

" a Poet and his Friend ;" 'tis charming, and called Lord 
Hervey's, but it was made by an elder brother that 
died many years ago, who was superior in abilities to any 
of his brothers. 



The Countess Cowper to Miss Dewes. 

Richmond, Nov. 21st, 1768. 

I am very sorry to hear that one of my dearest girl's 
letters have miscarried, as they are always too good to 
be lost. Poor Mr. Arden's living Mr. Bulkeley was to 
have had, but it was so circumstanced that I thought it 
would turn out more to his advantage to decline it, and 
my son is to ask immediately a living of the Chancellor 
for him, so situated that he may hold it with one of 
Lord Spencer's of 200 a-year in Dorsetshire whenever 
it is vacant. I do not doubt my Chaplains being well 
provided for in time, but he is young enough to wait. 
" The righteous are never forsaken," <*c., then what may 
not the offspring of Mr. and Mrs. Dewes expect? 
especially as they follow so good a track. I had a party 
at home on Friday ; two quadrille tables below stairs in 
the pretty room. The General brought his nephew, who 
has been ill with being over-heated at the King of 
Denmark's masquerade, but I liked him last night 
better than ever I did. Were he to fall into good hands, 
I think he might not only be happy himself, but make 
others so ; at present he seems quite unhappy, as he has 
no comfort at home. His father being odd and bad, 
and his mother odd, though good, and fitter much for 
the next world than this, so the heir apparent is going 
to seek a new creation abroad, though I could recommend 



190 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

to him a faultless creature at home which would make 
him like herself, both fit for this world and the next ! I 
have not dared to take in Lady Grace Hay (which has 
been a great mortification to her), the small pox has 
raged so much at Richmond, and of a bad kind. 

I desire, when little Mun. comes to you, you will lay 
out half-a-guinea in something for him as my gift. Say 
something pretty for me to agreeable Mrs. Mead, and my 
best compliments to Mr. Dewes and my Chaplain. I 
shall send your brothers each a ticket for a benefit 
ridotto for the General Lying-in-Hospital, on the 28th 
instant ; you would like our Richmond ones I assure you. 
There is to be one this evening, and next Monday will 
be the last this season. 

Lady Spencer is still confined, and were she to remain 
so, I believe would be safe ; but the constant hurry scurry 
she lives in can never be proper for a person with child. 

Is a certain person dead, or recovered, or neither? 
which is worse than the former. 

" For words are wanting to discover 
Tlie torments of a hopeless lover!" 

I am certain we shall not find the evenings long when 
we meet, we shall have so much to say to one another. 

If the weather permits (to-day is dismal) I propose 
going to-morrow into St. James's Place, and will get 
this franked. 

Aimez-moi toujours comme je vous aime. 

Adieu, 

Gr. C. COWPER. 



OF MRS. DEL ANY. 191 



Mrs. Delany to Lady Andover. 

Bulstrode, 24th Nov., 1768. 

The Duchess of Portland was happy with your lady- 
ship's letter this morning, and charges me with her 
love and acknowledgments, and for fear an extraordinary 
empressment for writing should seize her Grace I snatch 
the present moment to return my dear Lady Andover 
my best thanks for the favour of her last letter, still 
unanswered, and can with pleasure assure her, that our 
most dear friend is very well, and in very good spirits ; 
confirmed by good accounts at home and abroad. How 
well she deserves felicity ! For how bountifully does she 
bestow it ! but every soil is not as grateful as her good 
culture- deserves : I am too true a sample, who receive 
hourly such tender marks of her goodness, and yet am 
at times no better than a noxious weed ! However, I 
must do myself the justice to say that I am not quite 
unworthy, as my heart overflows with true and grateful 
affection for her, and my health is certainly better. 

Apropos, has your ladyship, amongst the authors 
you have perused, met with KRACHSCHENNINNECHOFF ; 
he must be a great man by his name ! I should think 
he must be a Patagonian ! This learned man the Du- 
chess of Portland and the ingenious Mr. Lightfoot have 
at their fingers' ends, with a million more little inferior 
in sound, that an ignorant person sitting by, whilst 
they are displaying their knowledge, might expect to see 
the candles turn blue, and that they were at their incan- 
tations ; but nothing can be more simple and innocent than 



192 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

these amusements, or more calculated to drive away the 
foul fiend. I am sure your ladyship's esteem for the 
Duchess of Portland is such that any escape from harm 
or disgrace must give you satisfaction ; and she has had 
such an escape ! When Prince and Princess Czartorisky, 
the Countess Opeska, Monsieur and Madame Williamos, 
and Monsieur Le Comte Zabiella were to come to Bui- 
strode, her Grace, out of the abundance of her politeness, 
intending to entertain in a superlative manner, thought 
of cards (unnatural thought, for her, to be sure !) but she 
took care to buy them, and bring them down herself, and 
kept them choice till the hour of need ; they did not come ! 
The cards lay wranolested on the toilet. Fossils were ex- 
amined, and sorted, a loud cry for patty-pans all ex- 
hausted, the choice cards were seized upon for the pur- 
pose, the packthread cut, the paper stript off, and behold 
appeared fair, unspotted, virgin cards ! ' What would the 
princely guests have thought when their spirits and 
hopes were high about engaging in dear quadrille or 
delightful loo to have had such a damp ? You can, I am 
sure, my dear Lady Andover, in sprightly colours, figure 
to yourself the rage, the disappointment of the company, 
and the amazement and confusion of our friend. She 
bid me tell you this, or I should not have said so much 
about it. 

I am, indeed, most truly rejoiced at Mr. Frampton's 
promotion, and hope he will long enjoy a station, that 
he is so well fitted to shine and to rise in ; but I believe 
he has forgot me and the good wishes he knew I have 
had for his good success, or why has he not taken any 
notice of me, by message or a line, since I left Bath ? 
He came once to my lodgings, when I was too ill to see 




! ^z&ru?! 



OF MRS. DELANY. 193 

Mm ; but never called or sent again ! However, he is 
too worthy a man for me to quarrel with, and I hope 
your ladyship will be so good, when you see him, to 
assure him I am sincerely glad he is at last distinguished 
as he deserves. May I beg my affectionate compliments 
to Miss F. Howard. I rejoice the dear little Lady Maria 
is so well. Whatever contributes to your happiness must 
in a great measure to that of your ladyship's 
Most affectionate, and 

Obedient humble servant, 

M. DELANY. 

I hope you will not be buried in snow at Charleton. 
My best compliments attend Lord Suffolk. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Bulstrode, 28th Nov., 1768. 

Though I begin on so large a sheet, I am not much 
disposed for writing, having been much shocked with 
the account of my dear Miss Button's death a very un- 
expected stroke ; but I suppose my dear Mary has known 
the progress of her illness, which prepared you for the 
event an event of great happiness, I hope, to our friend, 
but nobody of all my intimate acquaintance, except the 
dear friend I am with, could have been so great a loss 
to me ! Besides her being the child of a friend 1 I loved 
so tenderly, she had every quality that could make a most 
desirable companion, and an attachment to me and 
those I love, that claims my grateful remembrance and 
the tribute I sincerely pay her. She was it seems 

1 The Countess of Sunderland. 
PART II. VOL. I. 



194 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

very ill when I was in London, but the Duchess of 
Portland charged every one not to tell me, as she was 
then altered to a degree, that would have alarmed me 
greatly, and she knew I would go and see her. It 
was most kindly meant, as my having been of late not 
quite so well as I was when I first came down, made her 
unwilling I should know it yet ; and she went to town 
on Saturday, to see Lady Weymouth, who is confined 
with a violent pain and swelling in her leg, attended 
with a fever, they say occasioned by her milk, tho' she was 
better yesterday, when the Duchess left her, at three 
o'clock. In the morning, I received a letter from our 
amiable Eavaud, which acquainted me with my loss, 
she not doubting but I had been acquainted with it ; but 
don't let her know that circumstance, as her tender heart ! 
would be hurt if she knew the sad surprise it was to me. 
Now, my dearest Mary, I have written so much on this 
subject, my spirits are easier, and I still feel such comfort 
and blessing in my amiable child, that it makes me truly 
thankful to Providence, not only on that account, but 
that I still possess so many valuable friends. 

The weather has been so uncertain and bad, that it has 
prevented our taking proper exercise, which about this 
sweet place would have been delightful and salutary. We 
make use of every fine day. The Duchess talks of going 
to town again on Thursday or Friday, to see Lady Wey- 
mouth, and if she continues long confined, I fear it will 
end in our settling in London before Christmas, which I 
shall be sorry for on every account but the pleasure I shall 
have in seeing your brothers. They have lost a kind friend, 
and I am sure are sorry, and your father too, who had a 
great esteem for Jier. My mind at present is so full of this 



OF MBS. DELANY. 195 

one subject, I can think of nothing else, and find that being 
possessed of a great sorrow does not prevent the feeling of 
lesser ones, the ocean is only augmented by small rivers ! 
I must add my thanks, my dear child, for the little 
box so neatly packed up. 



Mrs. Delany to Lady Andover. 

Bulstrode, llth Dec., 1768. 

I was greatly obliged to dear Lady Andover for her 
kind intelligence of her safe arrival at Charleton, where 
I hope everything will conspire to make the season you 
pass there pleasant, and that as soon as Lord Suffolk's 
hospitality has paid due homage to the Christmas 
holidays, you will all decamp for the city of West- 
minster, by which time you will have friends at White- 
hall impatient to see you. 

I must assure your ladyship that our dear friend is 
very well, and I hope Lady Weymouth is so much better 
that she will soon get quite rid of her complaints. The 
Duchess of Portland went to town last Wednesday to 
see her, and she returned on Friday ; proposes doing the 
like on Wednesday next if not intimidated by the Brent- 
ford mob 1 or some such rioters. 

I am indeed in perfect charity with Mr. Frampton, and 
few of his friends more sincerely glad of his preferment. 
His duty and inclination will sometimes call him to pay 
his respects to his benefactors in London, and then I hope 
to prove his sincerity if he wishes to continue our ac- 

" The Brentford mob." A riot took place at Brentford on the 8th of Dec., 
1768, on the election of a member for the county of Middlesex. 

o 2 



196 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

quaintance ; but as the advantage will be all on ray side 
there can be no doubt of my desiring it. 

I know your ladyship's indulgence for your friends is 
so great, that as you was certainly a good deal fatigued 
with your journey, you will as soon as you can relieve 
our cares about you. The Duchess sends her best love 
to dear Lady Andover, and we both beg our best com- 
pliments to Lord Suffolk and Miss F. Howard. I am, 
with true affection, 

Your ladyship's most faithful, 

And obedient humble servant, 

M. DELANY. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Bulstrode, 28th Dec., 1768. 

If a cold corner could lurk in my heart towards my 
dearest Mary, her dear letter, dated the 24th, just re- 
ceived, must make it glow with warmth ; but though it 
is delightful to receive testimonies of love from those 
most dear to us, this was not wanting to make me feel 
the happiness of such a filial friend. 

Let no retrospection give you a painful moment on my 
account. If I saw a slight flaw in the diamond, I knew 
it was only on the surface, and would easily polish off; 
but one thing gives me pain, and yet I don't know how 
even to wish it rectified, as it is the consequence of that 
disposition which makes you so amiable you guess, I 
mean your too great sensibility on the account of your 
friends. Even there I have this consolation, that as you 
know perfect happiness is not designed for this world, 
you will be supported (in all great trials to which 



OF MRS. DELANY. 197 

mortality subjects us) by that aspiring hope to that 
seat " where only true joys are to be found " and with 
the utmost satisfaction, my dearest Mary, do I consider 
you taking every step that (with the Divine assistance) 
will guide you thither 

" Thither let our hearts aspire." 

And now I shall make no apology for this serious 
page, but proceed to talk like folks of this world, for who 
can be so cheerful as those that endeavour to do their duty, 
and amuse themselves innocently. Cheerfulness is na- 
tural to every being, and a grateful heart must be thank- 
ful for the blessings it knows how to enjoy ! 

I should have been glad to have peeped through a 
cranny like a little mouse to see you trip with your 
agreeable society on " the light fantastic toe ;" but I would 
not willingly have produced my chilly wrinkled coun- 
tenance unless I could have made you amends by good 
humour and good spirits. In idea I have enjoyed all 
your occupations, and don't know which I like best. 
Long may you all, my dear children, bless and be 
blessed. 

I had a letter last post from my brother, and hope he 
may be at Bath before this kisses your fair hands ; but 
he says he has still a great deal of pain I long for the 
answer, but think it (almost) impossible he should object. 

Now for la Jupe : it is too thick and clumsy for a 
gown, and were it not, I assure you there is not a scrap 
of the same sort to be met with. And thus far I have run 
on without saying one word of your dear letter of last 
week without a date, but full of kindness, which ought 
to have been acknowledged before ; but now we are on 
the brink (alas !) of leaving sweet B. a thousand bottoms 



198 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

are to be worked up that prevented my writing last post. 
I have finished three chairs' back and seats for the 
Duchess of Portland (one of them was begun twelve 
years ago.) The rest of our works I postpone an account 
of till the happy time of meeting, on which my thoughts 
are constantly fixed. Come by all means in your habit, 
you will be immediately conveyed to my apartments and 
see nobody but myself. How does your maid come ? 

It is a great satisfaction to me that my dear John l 
has consulted Dr. Lewis. I hope he will have the virtue 
strictly to follow his prescriptions, and take warning not 
to be negligent of his precious health. The Duchess 
desires her best compliments, and is almost as impatient 
for your coming as I am. The funguses are found, they 
were snug in a portfolio that was overlooked. The bell 
rings for prayers every duty is here performed with the 
greatest punctuality. Do me justice to everybody, to 
yourself more than I can say. Adieu. 



Mrs. Delany to the Eight Hon. Viscountess Andover. 

Whitehall, 7th Jan., 1769. 

It is an age since I wrote to dear Lady Andover, and 
I suffer (as all naughty people do) for my faults. The 
truth, which I know always is the best solicitor with 
your ladyship, is, that on coming to town I was struck 
with the sight of my Irish goods that are arrived, and 
so sunk by it I was not able to write ; and now being un- 
certain where this may kiss your hands, and not without 
hope that you may be preparing for London, I shall 
make it short. Surely London is the place that from 

1 The liev d - Jolm Dcwes. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 199 

December till April is the wholesomest place for man, 
woman, and child: I appeal to Miss F. Howard. The 
Duchess of Portland is entirely of my mind, and sends 
her kind love and wishes to her dear Andeline. She is, 
thank God, very well, and good as , but I dare not 
say what, as perhaps she will see my letter. Lady 
Weymouth very well, and everywhere, and very busy in 
removing from Pall Mall to the house that was the 
Duke of Dorset's in Arlington Street. 

Lady Stamford comes to town in a fortnight. Lord 
Edward B. very well. My hut in little St. James's 
Street is not in great forwardness, which does not at all 
grieve my spirit. I am too sensible of my present happy 
situation to be in haste to quit it. Many happy new 
years to my dear Lady Andover and those that con- 
tribute to her happiness, is the fervent wish of 
Your ladyship's most affectionate, 
And obedient humble servant, 

M. DELANY. 

When I came to town I found a ticket of Dr. Framp- 
ton's, and immediately sent to Duke Street to desire to 
see him, but to my mortification he was gone, and 
greatly to the Duchess of Portland's disappointment. I 
was to have the honour of introducing him to her Grace. 
May I beg my compliments to him. 



Mrs. Delany to the Right Eon. Viscountess Andover. 

Whitehall, 19th Jan., 1769. 

The Duchess of Portland was happy yesterday with 
your ladyship's letter. She begun to be uneasy at not 



200 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

hearing, supposing she had written some time ago ; but 
from" dear Lady Andover's gentle murmur of " not having 
heard " from hence as often as she wished, we conclude 
neither her Grace's letter of about a month ago, and my 
last (which was the second I adressed to Charleton) have 
kissed your ladyship's hands. In my last I particularly 
mentioned Dr. Frampton, the search I had made after 
him in London, and my concern for the account I had 
heard of his illness, which I hope he has perfectly 
recovered. 

It much rejoices us to hear your ladyship, &c., per- 
formed your journey well, and were safe at Elford, but 
hope you have no intention of making any stay there, 
as most certainly a watery situation and keen air cannot 
be as wholesome for your little angel as the good honest 
smoke of London, at least for three months to come. I 
know if you are convinced of that, we shall soon have 
you in our neighbourhood. And what more shall I say 
to invite ? Many friends will be happy to see you, and 
that must gratify your benevolence ; no one will be more 
truly blessed with your company and conversation than 
myself, and that, I am sure, will indulge your charity, 
for nothing but your own virtues can give you pleasure 
in bestowing your time on one so little worthy of it in 
every respect but that of an unaltered attachment to you, 
and true gratitude for all your goodness. 

I would tell you if I could what's doing in the Grand 
Monde, but that I believe you care as little for it as I 
do ; a prodigious fine crowded birthday yesterday. The 
Duchess and I were comfortably at home the whole day. 
Lady Stamford came in the evening and was very well 
dressed, and glittered wonderfully. Lady Weymouth very 



OF MRS. DELANY. 201 

well again, and in waiting, so we see little of her now. 
The finest man I heard of was the imperial ambassador. 
Blue velvet, the buttons and buttonholes set with dia- 
monds. 

The Douglas cause begun to-day. 'Tis supposed it 
will last ten or twelve days. 

Lord Weymouth, and five men beside, dined here, staid 
to drink coffee and tea, but are just gone all to Almacks 
as is her Grace. 

The postbell tingles, and I can only scrawl that I beg 
my best compliments to Miss F. Howard, and to your- 
self more than I can utter or write. Adieu. 

The Duchess charged me with her love. 



Mrs. H. Mead to Miss Dewes. 

Welsbourne, Feb. 2nd, 1769. 

Many thanks to you, my dear Miss Dewes, for your 
kind note and letter, and it gave me great pleasure to 
hear you got well to town, that your brothers are well 
also, and Mrs. Delany better, to whom I beg my compli- 
ments ; I am glad your hurry of company and late hours 
agree so well with you, though I dare say it is a sort of 
life you would not choose for a constancy, though very 
well sometimes ; but no one is more capable of shining in 
polite assemblies, though at the same time you can look 
forward to scenes of pleasure far beyond the transitory 
ones here a taste, I doubt, much wanted by many in 
your gay sphere. I assure you we have been very gay here 
also, where you was much wished for indeed ; the bride 
and bridegroom came to Walton at the fixed time when 



202 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

you left us, and we proposed paying our compliments to 
them on the Monday morning afterwards, when your 
papa said he would conduct us, but on the Sunday even- 
ing received a card to invite us all to dinner on the 
Wednesday and to spend the evening, a method I find 
they took with their friends and neighbours at Berkley 
also, in order to " break the form a little," Mr. Mordaunt 
said, on those occasions, and indeed a very agreable day 
we spent. I went with Mrs. Vernon, (she being by her- 
self,) Mr. Vernon not being able to be there before the 
evening, and your papa was so kind to convey the rest, 
though Mr. Mordaunt was so good to offer to send his 
coach or his chaise. I like the bride very much ; she 
seems sensible, and appears of an obliging disposition, 
and behaves very affectionately to the eldest ladies as 
well as Miss Mary. She was dressed in a handsome white 
tissue negative, no jewels except pearl buttons, necklace 
and earrings, and those of the small sort ; Mr. Mordaunt 
in light cloth, with a silver tissue waistcoat. I think 
Mrs. Mordaunt l is rather plain (though your papa says 
she was " handsome enough for a wife)" ; the upper part 
of her face is rather handsome, pretty good eyes and nose, 
but a bad mouth, rather long visage, and pale though 
fair, and dark hair, she is tall and genteel, and a good 
figure in dancing. The company were the parish of 
Wekbourne, Mr. Mills' family, Miss Wren, who was with 
them, Mr. Ogleworth (who was powdered and curled 
very smart, indeed) ; Mr. and Mrs. Leg of Idlicot, who 
had Miss Musgrave and Mr. North, Lady Willoughby's 



1 John, eldest son of Sir Charles Mordaunt, Bart., married Elizabeth, 
daughter and coheir of Thomas Prowse, Esq., of Uxbridge. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 203 

brother, with them, was also invited, and was set out to 
come, but was obliged to turn back by a brook being 
impassable between that place and Hulford ; Mr. and 
Mrs. Shirley were there, but not invited, as they went 
but the day before, and came of a morning visit ; but 
however it was very well, as Mr. Shirley 1 was a proper 
partner for the bride. I assure you we think she looks full 
five-and-twenty ; there was rather a scarcity of gentle- 
men. The Miss Mordaunts did not begin dancing except 
Miss Dolly who prevailed on your papa to dance with 
her ; I also danced two dances, and Mr. and Mrs. Mills, 
(who have not practised these twenty years, danced.) Sir 
Charles was excused for fear of the gout, and Mr. Hop- 
kins and Mr. Mead by having their boots on. But Mr. 
Mills has promised Sir Charles he will dance at his wed- 
ding, if he will make haste. He replied : " The sooner 
the better." I dare say he thinks so if with a certain 
lady, you know who ! We had a very elegant dinner and 
supper, and didn't reach home till two o'clock. I was 
laid up for several days after with a fever and sore throat, 
which I felt a little of the day before, but am got very 
well again now, and have rid out to day, and your papa 
has been spending a tete-a-tete visit with me this after- 
noon, as Mrs. Welch, your brother, and Mr. Mead and 
Bell, are gone to Kings Head. The bride folks have 
returned their visits they made two mornings to Wels- 
bourne ; the equipage, &c.,very neat post-coach and four, 
lemon colour gilt; poor Mrs, Hayes the morning they went 
there, was dressed out, and she exerted herself so much she 



1 The Rev. Walter Shirley, fourth son of the Hon. Laurence Shirley, 
married Henrietta Maria, daughter of John Phillips, of Dublin, Esq. 



204 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

had like to have died afterwards, and was forced to 
be bled ! Mr. Lucy is much better, and now he knows 
he is to be sheriff, he does not seem to mind it much. 

But I must hasten to conclude. If you are with the 
Lady Cowper, as I imagine you are, beg our respectful 
compliments to her, and am, 

Dear Miss Dewes, 

Yours affectionately, 

H. MEAD. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

T. H. C., 10 at night, Monday. 
Feb., 1769. 

I am just come from Lady Weymouth and found your 
dear letter, my dear Mary, on my table ; am glad your 
airing has agreed so well with you, and not a little glad 
with the hopes you give me of coming home next 
Saturday. Though my impatience does not fall very short 
of a lover's, yet if you see any reason for staying a day 
or two longer, or should it prove a very damp day, I 
charge you to do what is most agreeable to and safest for 
you, ever assured of being received with open arms and 
a warm heart. I pity those you are to leave, and must 
ever feel true gratitude for their kind care and attention 
to my precious child. Court dined with me to-day, and 
is very well. Bernard was engaged. Miss H. Thynne 
is better, but poor Lady Weymouth has been very 
miserable about her. I dined yesterday with our little 
plump Montague and her son ; you were much inquired 
after, and your health drank. From thence I went by 
invitation to Mrs. M., the witty and the lean, and found a 
formal formidable circle ! 



OF MRS. DELANY. 205 

I had a whisper with Mrs. Boscawen, another with 
Lady Bute, and a wink from the Duchess of Portland 
poor diet for one who loves a plentiful meal of social 
friendship. The clock is impertinent, and tells me I 
must send away my letter before I have said half my 
say. 

Your father is quite recovered. I have had a visit 
from Miss Furnival. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Wednesday, 6 o'clock. 
Feb., 1769. 

Inclosed I send you a list of the cards I have sent out 
for you to-day, if you recollect others let me know ; these 
with half a score notes, pinning twenty patches together 
to make a chair cover, a visit from Bernard, and 
another from Mrs. Boscawen, must account for the hurry 
of this epistle. 

I read my dearest Mary's letter in the chaise, and was 
affected by your too great gratitude, my dear child. We 
trotted on briskly, chewing the cud upon the pleasure we 
had enjoyed at Richmond ; when hark ! I heard a shout- 
ing and calling which I thought belonged to some 
waggon or stage coach behind us, when a man clothed 
all in scarlet, with a musket in his hand, and fiercer than 
Captain Parlande, gave the postillion a smart slap on the 
back and cried out, " Stop, for His Majesty is on the 
road/' The postillion, ignorant of etiquette, and smart- 
ing with resentment, was going to exercise his whip 
hand. I screaming out, " Stop, stop," and Court the 



206 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

same at the other window, and we had just prevailed as the 
post-chaise past by : and little did His Majesty know how 
he had flattered one of his humble subjects. I grumbled 
at the insolence and rebellion of the postillion, Court 
complained of arbitrary power, and we argued the point 
he maintaining that the public road should not be 
violated by these proceedings I, that it was due to 
royalty to have all those marks of respect kept up : and 
how do you think the dispute ended ? With infinite good 
humour, and a strict adherence to our own opinions! 
My councillors could not stay the evening, which I 
regretted, as I had a pretty snug minority party, Lord 
and Lady Dartmouth, Mrs. Montague and her son, and 
the Duchess of Beaufort, who came in person to thank 
me for my solicitude about her, and to inquire after you ; 
and (so vexatious), her chairmen did by her as Lady 
Shelburne's did, bounced her against the door and broke 
one of her glasses ; I did not know it till she was gone, 
and it really vexed me ; but Mrs. Boscawen has under- 
taken to make all proper apologies for me and my door I 
though I sent a lamenting card this morning. Before 
my party broke up, in walked Lady Willoughby, 1 every- 
body congratulated her on Lord North's being First Lord 
of the Treasury. 2 No reason yet known why the Duke of 
Grafton has resigned ; it seems an unkind behaviour to 
his benefactor at this critical time, .-and puts me in mind 



1 Lady Louisa North, sister of the minister, Lord North, married, in 1761, 
John Peyto, 6th Baron Willoughby de Broke. 

2 Frederic, Lord North was appointed First Lord of the Treasury, Feb. 6, 
1770. He had held the office of Chancellor of the Exchequer from Dec. 1, 
1767, and continued to hold both offices till March 27, 1782, when the Marqiii's 
of Rockingham became the Premier. 



OF MKS. DELANY. 207 

of what Louis XIY. or Charles II. said, that when he 
bestowed a place, he was sure of making many enemies, 
and one man ungrateful. " But a fig for politics." How 
do you, my dear child ? and how does your kindest of 
nurses ? and how did your card-party agree with you ? 
and how did you relish mutton and turnips ? I hope 
you nibbled more than you did yesterday, or a mouse 
would distance you. 

I am just going to drink tea with Lady Primrose, and 
meet the duchess of all duchesses, and to-morrow I dine 
at Dowager Lady Gowers. Friday I stay at home and see 
company Mrs. Shelley for one if I can catch her. Pray 
make my baise mains to the Countess, and tell her her 
arrow shall be shot off to-morrow. Adieu, my dear 
agreeable triumvirate, I pray for sunshine for you. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen 1 to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street. 
Monday, May 8th, 1769. 

DEAR MADAM, 

I hope you have been able perfectly to enjoy the 
sweets of Bulstrode, by having always the satisfaction 



1 Frances, daughter of William Glanville Evelyn, Esq., of St. Clere, Kent, 
(by his first wife, Frances, daughter and heir of William Glanville, Esq.), 
married, in Dec., 1744, the Hon. Edward Boscawen, third son of Hugh, 
1st Viscount Falmouth. Her husband was a distinguished naval officer. 
He died, Jan. 10, 1761. She died, Feb. 26, 1805. Their children were 
1, Edward Hugh, M.P. for Truro, died at Spa, 17th July, 1774 ; 2, William 
Glanville, who was drowned at Jamaica in 1769 ; 3, George Evelyn, who 
became, in 1782, 3rd Viscount Falmouth on the death of his uncle Hugh, the 



208 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

to observe that the Duchess is quite well, and has not 
had the least return of her indisposition. Your own 
health too is good I hope ; as to Miss Dewes, I won't 
ask after her, persuaded as I am, that by this time her 
cheeks vie with the reddest tinge of the apple blossom. 
Now, for me to see all this would be delightful, and to 
say that such is my ambition is the purpose of these few 
lines which wait on you, dear madam, to know if it would 
be agreeable to the Duchess for me and my Missey to 
breakfast with her Grace on Thursday and return on 
Friday, or else to wait on her and you on Friday and 
return on Saturday. Either of these we can do, and 
therefore you may be sure we will, if it be agreeable to 
her Grace, and that she has no engagement. I have 
not a word of news, and the dulness of this is a sad 
specimen of the visitor I offer you. Dear madam, all 
the world is gone down to the House of Commons, 
and there expect to stay (at least the concerned) till to- 
morrow morning ! 

I congratulate you on this soupcon de pluie, 
indeed we were almost blind with dust, and my 
neighbour, Mrs. Howard, wont join in watering the 
street ! 

Adieu, dear madam ; I will expect from you (or if you 
please from your amiable secretary) a word of answer to 
receive on Wednesday, that is to say by return of post. 



2nd Viscount ; 4, Frances, married, in 1773, the Hon. John Leveson Gower, 
son of John, 1st Earl Gower by his 3rd wife ; 5, Elizabeth, married, in 17G(J, 
Henry, 5th Duke of Beaufort. The brothers mentioned in the course of Mrs. 
Boscawen's letters were the children of her father by a second marriage. By 
the first marriage she was the only child, and she inherited the large property 
of her mother, who died young. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 209 

I beg my respects to the Duchess, and am with the 
truest regard, 

Dear madam, 
Your sincere and obliged humble servant, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 

My daughter sends her kind love to her young friend, 
and promises to bring her a perfect and particular 
account of the ridotto al fresco, 1 if she is so happy to 
go to Bulstrode this week. 



Mrs. Dclany to the Viscountess Andover. 

Bulstrode, 16th May, 1769. 

Had not the Duchess of Portland written to dear 
Lady Andover my letter would not have been so long 
deferred; but though I know your ladyship's kind 
partiality gives some little value to my letters, I thought 
as you had heard so lately it was better to delay my 
intelligence a little longer. Our dearest friend is very 
well and happy in Lord Edward Bentinck's being come 
back perfectly well ; he came here last night soon after 
we were sat down to supper, but was obliged to return 
this evening in order to pay his devoirs to their Majesties. 
I don't know which gave the Duchess the most pleasure 
seeing him so well, or his kind and proper attention to 
her in coming immedeiately to her ; to so delicate a way 



1 The " ridotto al fresco," which was an object of interest at the period when 
this letter was written, became afterwards so immoral that it was stopped by 
government authority. 

PART II. VOL. I. P 



210 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

of thinking, as she has, every mark of a good heart, is of 
at least as much consequence as the health of the body. 

I was very happy to hear the journey to Elford so 
prosperous, and that your dear little charge has found 
such benefit from change of air. Have you been starved 
with cold, or has your ladyship's constant exercise to 
and from your delightful hill made you bear the cold 
without shrugging. Here we make most woeful com- 
plaints. The Duchess heaps cloaks upon cloaks on her- 
self, and fires are ordered ; then we grow too hot, and 
off go the cloaks ; surely the wind is now south-west ? 
notwithstanding all this grumbling and restlessness, we 
walk, we tour about the park, we feed the creatures, and- 
feel no cold whilst the botanic garden is under inspection. 
Mr. Achard and I, who are the youthful part of the com- 
pany, think the weather tolerably good ; but I should 
think it so in Lapland, were I there with the dear friend 
I am now with. Unfortunately the day Mr. and Mrs. 
Greenvil and Miss Stapleton spent here was rain from 
morning till evening; but they had enough for one 
day's admiration within doors. To them succeeded 
agreeable Mrs. Boscawen and her daughter, who went 
away much delighted. On Saturday and on Monday 
came Lord and Lady Scarsdale * and Miss Curzon, they 
are still here, and I believe stay till Sunday or Monday ; 
who succeeds next I don't know. I cannot wonder 
there are many candidates ; though were I to indulge 



1 Sir Nathaniel Curzon was created Baron Scarsdale, 19th June, 1761. He 
married, 27th October, 1750, Caroline, daughter of Charles, 2nd Earl of 
Portmore. Lord Scarsdale died in 1804, leaving two daughters (besides several 
sons) Caroline, who died, 17th May, 1841, and Juliana, who died 22nd Feb., 
1835. 



OF MRS. DELANY. *211 

my own wicked selfishness there would be fewer, as I 
feel myself unsuitable now to much company. I cannot 
but regret dear Lady Andover's short stay here ; such is 
my ingratitude, that I repine at the loss of pleasures and 
blessings without considering how thankful I ought to 
be that I ever possessed them. 

As for news, the papers give you all and more than is 
done and doing. I hope the pretty views, the melodious 
birds, and all the pleasing rural scenes of the country 
make Miss F. Howard amends for the loss of Almacks, 
Ranelagh, &c., but that as soon as their beauties fade, 
she will return to the sprightly diversions of London 
and her friends there. I beg my best compliments to her. 

The Duchess's love, and Miss Dewes's respects attend 
dear Lady Andover. 

I am your ladyship's most affectionate and 
Most obedient, 

M. DELANY. 

Miss Dewes's kind compliments to Miss F. Howard ; 
may I beg mine to Lord Suffolk, if with you. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Hatchlands Park, 1 May 24th, 1769. 

I am so happy, dear madam, with the honour and 
pleasure of your correspondence that I sit down to 
answer your obliging letter the day I receive it ; but it 
is rather simple perhaps to tell you so, as I may deter 

1 Hatchlands Park, near Guildford, in Surrey, the residence of Admiral the 
Hon. Edward Boscawen, who died Jan. 10, 1701, aged 49. 

p 2 



212 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

you from ever writing again ! indeed, dear madam, I will 
never desire it, much less expect it, but at your leisure, 
and then I shall certainly be very glad to hear of the 
Duchess's health and of yours, dear madam. I con- 
gratulate her Grace upon this delightful weather, which, 
coming after a plentiful rain, with all the warmth of 
June and sweets of May, makes the country really 
delightful. I came here last Saturday ; was obliged to 
set out in all that deluge of rain, being engaged to dine 
with some friends at Bansted, and have done nothing 
ever since, I think, but walk and sit out of doors and 
take airings in my chaise, feasting my eyes with haw- 
thorns and my ears with nightingales. I have only my 
daughter with me ; and how happy we should both be 
could we entice you, dear madam, and Miss Dewes to 
come to us must not now be thought of, since you bid 
me despair of that pleasure ! differe, il est perdu pour 
moi, nor do I flatter myself with the hopes of seeing you 
again before winter, because, instead of going to London 
to see the Duchess of Beaufort at the King's birthday ; 
the Duke and she have promised me to come hither for 
a few days after it. I am heartily glad to be assured 
by you, (who see with piercing eyes) the state of the 
Duchess's health, that it is now perfect \ my best 
respects wait on her Grace, with a thousand thanks for 
her kind remembrance, which is one instance among 
many of her goodness to me. You do not say that 
Lord Edward is recovered ; but I hope he is, as I 
heard he looked vastly well. The marriage 1 which 



1 Henry Fitzroy, 3rd Duko of Grafton, married his 2nd wife, Elizabeth, 
ushter of the Rev. Sir Richard Wrottesley, Hart., June 24, 1769. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 213 

excited your wonder did so to all the town, insomuch 
that I should not have failed to have wrote it to the 
Duchess of Portland the day that it burst suddenly upon 
the world if I had not concluded Lady Weymouth would 
acquaint her Grace with this surprising piece of news. 
Miss Fanny Wrottesley, 1 sister to the future Duchess, 
marries Captain Pigott (of the Navy), brother to Lord 
Pigott, but Miss Moore's marriage is not true, I 
believe ; I know her well (des le berceau) as she is an 
admiral's 2 daughter; she is a very fine girl, but not 
fifteen ; my daughter spoke of the report to Lady 
Moore, her mother, who expressed great surprise that it 
should have been thought of. Though I have indulged 
myself in scribbling to you so soon, yet I shall not send 
it as yet, for it is not worth a farthing, and my son is 
not here to frank it. Young men are never weary of 
London, I think ; if he does not come soon I will employ 
my right honourable neighbour, though his lordship 
is but an indifferent scribe ! Be pleased to tell the 
Duchess of Portland that Mr. Harley 3 was here on 



1 Frances, daughter of Sir Richard Wrottesley, married Admiral Pigott. 
Sir Richard's wife was the Lady Mary Gower, daughter of John, 1st Earl 
Gower and mother of the Duchess of Grafton, Mrs. Pigott, and other children. 

2 Sir John Moore, of the Drogheda family, was a Knight of the Bath and 
Rear Admiral of the Red. He was created a Baronet in 1766, and married 
Penelope, daughter of General Matthew. They had four daughters : Catherine, 
the eldest, married Sir Charles Warwick Bamfylde, Bart. ; Penelope, the 
second, married Ralph, second son of Ralph Sneyd, Esq., of Keel ; Anne and 
Selina Maria died single. 

8 John Harley, D.D., third son of Edward, 3rd Earl of Oxford, brother of 
Edward, 4th Earl, and father of Edward, 5th Earl of Oxford. He died, Jan. 7, 
1788, being Bishop of Hereford and Dean of Windsor. He was cousin to 
the Duchess of Portland, who was the only daughter and heir of Edward 
Harley, 2nd Earl of Oxford. 



214 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Monday ; he came with Mr. and Mrs. Grosvenor, 1 who 
have thoughts of purchasing the place, and took a 
cursory view of it in all the heat of last Monday ; it was 
the Eev. Mr. Harley : (is he not Eector of Marylebone) 
(par la grace de Margarite la Benigne) ? I have a notion 
so ; I knew him by sight, having seen him (I think at 
Lady Bingley's). 2 Her ladyship is in this country, but 
has not yet taken any notice of us, which we bear very 
patiently. Adieu, dear madam. Whenever you will be so 
good to bestow a quarter of an hour upon me I shall be 
exceedingly thankful, and always most faithfully yours, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Deives. 

Bulstrode, 7th June, 1769. Nine o'clock. 

How solitary my dressing room ; but I am cheered with 
the thought of my ever dear Mary's being in a situation 
most pleasing to her, where the kindness of her agree- 
able friend, the beauties of her mansion, 3 and the moon 
in its full glory, she knows so well how to enjoy and 
enjoy it my dearest child, with hope that all things will 
answer well at last. You have a never failing resource 
(Here the MS. is imperfect.) 



1 Probably Thomas Grosvenor, 2nd son of Sir Richard, and brother of 
Richard, 1st Earl Grosvenor. Mr. Thomas Grosvenor married, in 1759, 
Deborah, daughter and co-heir of Stephen Skynner, of Walthamstow, Esq. 

* Harriet, only daughter and heiress of Robert Benson, Baron Bingley, and wife 
of George Lane Fox, created Baron Bingley, 1762. At her husband's death, in 
1773, the title became extinct, his only son, Robert, having died before him. 

3 The Countess Cowjx'.r's new house in Richmond, Surrey. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 215 

The middle arch of the old bridge had fallen in about 
an hour the day before the Duchess of Portland's coach 
drove over it. Happily nobody was on the bridge at 
the time it fell ; they had made up a temporary bridge 
for walkers, and to-day the arch will be repaired and 
made passable for coaches. This, with setting out rather 
too late, occasioned an extraordinary revolution at Bui- 
strode. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

T. H. C., 16th June, 1769. 

" My books and work will now no longer please" &c. 
nothing but talking to my dear Mary will do at present, 
though I have nothing to say but what my faithful 
friend in your breast will say better for me our mutual 
feelings are our best interpreters, now you are geehoeing 
along Piccadilly, the sun shines on my dear travellers, 
no dust I hope, no unruly jolts, nothing to ruffle their 
passage. Ingenious minds find entertainment every- 
where, " sweet converse " will beguile the time, every tree, 
herb, flower, afford them a subject for admiration ; and 
every passenger for some observation : so I trust your 
journey will be pleasant, and the thoughts of making 
those happy (for that must be the case) you are going 
to, will be the zest of all. Think of me, my dear child, 
without regret ; your kind attentions to me, and the hap- 
piness I enjoyed in your company must always be a pleas- 
ing recollection ; I shall live upon it till we meet again, a 
prospect, I thank God, not far off; and in the meantime 



216 LIFE AND COKRESPONDENCE 

I will obey my beloved Mary's commands, and court 
amusements, perhaps they will be coy, but I'll pursue ! 
a note this moment from Mrs. Pitt ; she calls me at 
three ; adieu, till by and by. 

Evening. 

I saw nobody till Mrs. Pitt called me at the appointed 
hour. We had a pretty snug dinner in her bow window 
below stairs, and saw her cart loaded with hay in the 
field at the end of her garden, and all the jovial hay- 
makers following it in full glee, when behold a black 
cloud that had some time threatened, poured down and 
damped all their jollity ; it soon cleared, and we had a 
pleasant walk round, sat some time in her green house, 
then mounted her bowery staircase to the drawing-room, 
and drank coffee ; she was very entertaining, and I did 
my best endeavour to enjoy it, but could not help wish- 
ing my Mary and her guardians had been of the party; 
she told me she heard, but did not believe it, that Lord 
Hertford was to be governor of the Prince of Wales, Lord 
Gower Lord Chamberlain, Lord Eochfort to succeed Lord 
Gower and Lord Sandwiche ' to be Secretary of State. 
Many good things she said of the chosen governor how 
proper a person to instil into the mind of a young Prince, 
noble and generous sentiments ; a Lady Erskine, (widow 
of Sir Charles Erskine,) and her two little boys, came 
after coffee ; she is a pretty woman, fine person, and very 
unaffected. Her contrast, Lady F. Coningsby, 2 followed, 



1 John, 4th Earl of Sandwich. He was Secretary of State and First Lord 
of the Admiralty. 

2 Lady Frances, daughter and coheir of the last Earl of Coningsby, and 
wife of Sir Charles Hanbury Williams. 



OP MRS. DELANY. 217 

with Mrs. M. T r., so lank and so lean ! I wanted to 
make a round of the day, and end where I begun ; but, 
as I shall not send my letter till to-morrow, I perhaps 
may add a line or two. " Pa-ast nine o'clock." 

Saturday morning. 

Just come from St. James's. I fear yesterday's rain 
made it a little dabby, and if you halted near any church- 
yard, prevented your roving from tomb to 'tomb, in 
search of good things where, " the rude fathers of the 
hamlet sleep." 

You know Lady Stamford drinks tea with me, and 
on Monday Mrs. Montagu comes with Lady Leicester to 
town, and goes to Norfolk the 22nd. I intend going 
to her on Tuesday noon. I sent to Lady Willougby to 
try to tempt her here this afternoon ; she writes me word 
she is a little grumbling, and that it is wiser to stay at 
home ; but will be glad to see me to-morrow evening. I 
shall divide it between her and Mrs. Walsingham. I have 
done twenty odd dabs to-day ; searched for my amber 
vase, and have found it, sewed another back of a chair 
into the frame, written a long letter to Mr. Granville, 
though perhaps you will have the pleasure of seeing him 
before my letter reaches him ; I am distressed to know 
how he does ? Smith was much out of order yesterday, 
and to-day I sent for Mr. Halifax, who has let her 
blood, and I hope it will not prove a matter of any con- 
sequence ; she is now better. I hope Eina has had no 
return of her complaints, for your sake as well as her 
own. 

Farewell my dearest M. believe me, 

Ever affectionately yours, 
M. D. 



218 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Love to your brothers, and my best compliments to 
Mr. Dewes, with many thanks for sparing you to me so 
long. 



TJie Countess Oowper to Miss Dewes. 

Richmond, June 23rd, 1769. 

My dear girl's agreeable letter was most welcome. 
I rejoice to hear you found the best of men well, which 
I am sure brightened you up. Your last visit was so 
short that I hardly enjoyed your company, for I do not 
love short pleasures, and the morning you left me I felt 
very low. Mrs. Le Grand stays with me till Wednesday, 
and on Saturday the 1st of July I propose setting out 
on my progress, but I had rather be going northward to 
you know who ! I expect Kerr to-day. My setting out 
upon so long a journey with a stranger is like adver- 
tizing for an agreeable companion to go to York ! Poor 
Bache continues much the same ; she has now kept her 
room five weeks, and has been well attended to. Her 
brother, who is in the Birmingham trade, has invited 
her to his house, where she intends to go as soon as she 
is able. Kerr is just arrived ; I like her appearance 
very well, and I will let you know some time hence what 
I think of her. 

I thought of you all Friday morning, and would have 
waylaid you, but feared it would lower us both. I am 
to go this evening to Hampton Court to Lord and Lady 
Delawarr, and to-morrow am to dine with my sister 
Tweeddale. My kind compliments to good Mr. Dewes, 
to your attentive brothers, and the amiable Mrs. Mead. 
But all my confidence and tenderest affection belongs 



OF MRS. DELANY. 219 

to my sweet girl, who shall hear from me again when I 
get to Mount Edgcumbe, till when I bid her adieu. My 
neighbour does not seem in spirits, perhaps you may see 
them at the Jubilee at Stratford ; but I fear it will be 
too much for me. 

Mrs. Le Grand desires her compliments to you, and 
has wrote out for you Lady C. H.'s lesson for the harp- 
sichord, which I will convey to Mrs. Delany, that she 
may carry it to you. 



The lion. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Hatchlands Park, 
Midsummer Day, 1769. 

The weather is so dull, and the rain so unwearied, 
that I should not certainly choose this time to use the 
privilege of writing to you, dear madam, since I must 
acknowledge myself a few degrees duller than ordinary 
(as my weather-glass is many lower) ; but indeed I want 
very much to know how the Duchess of Portland does 
after her northern expedition ? I know you will be so 
good to tell me ! Shall you not make a short excursion 
to Bulstrode. I imagine so, and will trouble you, dear 
madam, with a little tribute to Bulstrode : the gardener 
will soon produce trees of this seed, and the Duchess 
will, I hope, see them large ones. Pray tell her Grace 
that I had a letter yesterday from Lady Edgcumbe, 1 
in which speaking of her plan for the summer, she says, 



1 Emma, only child arid heir of Dr. Gilbert, Archbishop of York, married, 
in 1761, George, 3rd Baron Edgcumbe, afterwards created Viscount Mount 
Edgcumbe and Valletort and Earl of Mount Edgcumbe. 



220 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

"the Duchess Dowager of Portland I am happy in de- 
pending upon; for fear of any doubt on her part from 
the report of my Lord's illness, I wish you would be so 
good to acquaint her Grace that he is quite well again, 
and that we both live in hopes of paying our resj)ects to 
her here in August." I make no apology to you, dear 
madam, for reporting my message to you. I know you 
permit me, and I do not write to the Duchess at this 
time, nor have I indeed much chance of finding here any 
subject to write upon fit for her perusal or yours ; but I 
should be extremely glad to hear of her health; and 
when Lady Stamford l is safe in her bed, to know that 
good news also, which my newspaper never reports. 
I am, with the greatest esteem, 

Your most faithful and affectionate 
Humble servant, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 

Pray name us kindly to Miss Dewes in some little 
corner of your next letter. If this is charged, be pleased 
to tell me, because I have more of my son's franks, and 
he is gone. 

Mrs. Delany to the Viscountess Andover. 

T. H. C. 1st July, 1769. 

Before I make my apology for not sooner returning 
my best thanks to dear Lady Andover for the favour of 
her last very entertaining letter, I must congratulate 
your ladyship on Miss F. Howard's being in so good a 
way, and hope it is not necessary for me to say how 



1 Lady Henrietta Bentinck, second daughter of Margaret, Duchess of 
Portland, married George Harry, 5th Earl of Stamford and Warrington. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 221 

much I was concerned at an accident that must have 
given her so much pain and you so much anxiety of 
mind. 

The letter from Elford, which the Duchess of Portland 
received last night at Whitehall, gave us hoth great relief. 

Now for my apology : To make it short, I must say 
that a succession of hurries made writing for some posts 
impracticable, and our dear friend when she received your 
first letter would write herself, which made me wisely 
postpone mine to another post. 

I was much entertained with your incomparable ac- 
count of "Cousin Pies," and the Duchess laughed most 
heartily. Yesterday morning came the summons from 
Lady Stamford, who with her little girl is as well as can 
be, and had a very short and good time. 

Lady Weymouth is in town for a few days, nothing 
less than such an event could make amends for leaving 
Bulstrode and its million of charms, in the midst of hay- 
making, botanizing, roses and Mr. Lightfoot too. I wish 
these ladies would consider all these things, and not 
make their demands on the Duchess of Portland till the 
dreary months of November, December, and January ! 

Lord Gruilford has just been with me ; he is pretty 
well, and Lady Willoughby and her little girl as well as 
can be wished. 

I have had a thousand impertinent matters to inter- 
rupt this morning. I dine at Whitehall, am not dressed, 
but at all times with true affection, 

Dear Lady Andover's 
Most faithful and most obedient 
Humble servant, 

M. DELANY. 



222 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

My best compliments attend Miss F. Howard. The 
Duchess sends her love and " many thanks for her lady- 
ship's comfortable letter last night." 

(In the Duchess of Portland's handwriting ) 

Though Mrs. Delany has expressed my sentiments 
much better than I am able to do, yet I must assure my 
dearest friend of my grateful thanks for her kind letter 
and good account of dear Fanny, to whom I beg my 
kind compliments. The bellman rings, and I can only 
say, 

Your most affectionately. 



The following part of a letter is in the handwriting of Mrs. 
Ravaud, who it appears was called " Niece " by Mrs. Delany, and 
who here calls Mrs. Delany A.D., but whether there was any 
actual relationship the Editor has been unable to discover. 

.... There is nothing concerns you, that I am not 
very much interested in ; I have felt a friend's share in 
your late troubles, and greatly anxious about your health ; 
if my wings were at liberty, this interval, when the 
Duchess of Portland is on her progress, and our tres 
aimable enfant is at Welsbourne, you should see me 
exert my utmost efforts to " beguile the time " (a good 
old expression, is it not ?) during their absence ; but one 
certain subject we would let sleep, for talking upon that 
with temper is, I fear as yet, beyond my philosophy. 

(Illegible.) 

She don't think herself much mended by her visit to 
Bath ; entre nous, / think she distresses herself about 
public affairs, et que I'epee use le foureau. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 223 

I presume, as this time of the year is to be treated 
like summer, you will be unmolested in T. H. C. ; this 
I rejoice at, for I know, my dear A.D., in mobs, noises, 
and riots you are no heroine ; 'tis in the peaceful, 
virtuous, benevolent scenes of life you shine ; no wonder 
then you detest the reverse ; 'tis natural to us all to wish 
for the display of our talents ! Mrs. Kitty scolds because 
I will not say anything for her, as if dear A.D. did not 
know how much we think alike. 



The following letter was written by Frances Boscawen, who 
afterwards married the Hon. John Leveson Gower, and relates 
to her brother William Glanville Boscawen's death. 

Miss Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Hatchlands Park, July 10th, 1769 

DEAR MADAM, 

I should have thanked you by the return of the 
post, if I had not that very day wrote to the Duchess of 
Portland, and given her all the satisfaction my mother's 
unfortunate situation would admit of. She still con- 
tinues very composed, walks a great deal, and don't allow 
herself to be idle, which no doubt by leaving a vacancy 
in the mind nourishes grief; she reads a great deal and 
even works ! all this she does to support herself, and to 
comfort us ; her amazing resignation to the will of Gcd 
fills me with admiration and respect. 

If you had known the sweet young man we have lost, 
you would still pity my mother more than you even now 
do. In addition to every shining talent, he had such 



224 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

innate virtue and goodness of heart that he was the 
delight as well as glory of our lives. My mother had 
taken infinite pains with his education, and they suc- 
ceeded beyond her most sanguine wishes. In him she 
saw my father's merit revive, and the drooping spirits of 
his friends raise~d by the hopes they conceived of his dear 
son. Such was the young man we have lost before he 
was eighteen ! but I am unequal to tell half his merits, 
tho' many knew him by reputation, who never knew 
him personally. My mother had endured many severe 
afflictions ; and to him she looked for comfort, to rock 
the cradle of reposing age, if it had pleased God to have 
spared them for their mutual satisfaction and for the 
benefit of many, for dear William followed her admirable 
example, and never omitted any opportunity of doing 
good, tho' he shone in nothing so much as in his extreme 
gratitude and tenderness towards her; for he really 
doated on her. My loss is irreparable ! we were by inclina- 
tion and accident particularly united, and nothing can 
ever compensate to me the loss of such a brother. As 
soon as my sister heard the dreadful news, she came here 
directly, and arrived yesterday. The meeting between 
her and my mother was very affecting, but my sister 
has since been much relieved to find her dear parent 
bear this sore affliction with so much fortitude ; indeed, 
I flatter myself, it will be of some use to both. The 
extreme tenderness and attention my sister pays my 
mother, rouses her and makes her wish to make her some 
return by not sinking under the weight of her misfor- 
tune. The Duke of Beaufort came here with the Duchess, 
but he is now gone to perform a very melancholy office 
and attend his mother, whose poor daughter, Lady 



OF MRS. DELANY. 225 

Harriet "Williams, 1 is, I am informed, in the last stage 
of her disorder. 

I must entreat your pardon, dear Madam, for indulging 
myself in troubling you so much, but I can hardly ever 
speak of what we have lost, without insensibly paying 
a tribute to his merit. 

I am, dear Madam, with the greatest respect, 
Your obliged and faithful humble servant, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 

My mother desires her kind compliments to you. 

The following verses were found with the letters belonging to 
this correspondence. 

Verses on Mr. Boscawen, who was drowned as he was bathing in the 

Island of Jamaica. 
Ah ! William, till thy hapless hour 

Shall fade on mem'ry's pensive eye, 
The muse on fate shall curses shower, 
That doomed a youth like thee to die. 

Though lost, alas ! thy lovely name 

With incense shall the skies perfume ; 
And ev'ry flower of fairest fame 

Shall wish where William sleeps, to bloom. 

Till virtue seek her native sphere, 

Till honour cease below to shine, 
For thee shall virtue drop the tear, 

A nd honour's envied praise be thine. 



1 Henrietta, daughter of Charles Noel Somerset, 4th Duke of Beaufort, and 
wife of Sir Watkin Williams Wynn, Bart., died a few months after her 
marriage. 



PART IT. VOL. I. 



226 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



The Countess Cowper to Miss Dewcs. 

Mount Edgecumbe, July llth, 1769. 

MY DEAREST GIRL, 

Many thanks for yours of the 4th. I got safe 
and well here on the 7th by dinner. At my land- 
ing I was saluted from the fort by seventeen cannon 
(a princess has but twenty-one). Lady Edgecumbe met 
me on the shore. Lord Edgecumbe 1 was from home, 
and did not return 'till next day. Words cannot de- 
scribe the beauties of this place without doors. The 
house is a gothic castle and looks well at a distance, but 
is but indifferent within doors, though convenient. On 
Thursday the 6th instant, I dined at Exeter, and went 
at four o'clock to prayers at the cathedral, and was treated 
with an anthem, but it was not a full choir, as neither 
the Bishop or the Dean were at Exeter. There is a fine 
painted window in the cathedral, in which are the 
Granville and Carteret arms. 

My post chaise took me up at the church door, and I 
went that evening twenty miles, which were answerable 
to thirty, on account of the hills, which are the longest 
I ever saw ; in other respects the roads are perfectly good 
and the prospects delightful. The Duke of Cumberland 
is expected here to-morrow from on board his frigate, 
but his Eoyal Highness returns on board at night by 
way of example to the sea officers. 

I think the journey has carried off my flying pains, 

1 George, 3rd Baron Edgcumbe, succeeded his brother in 1761. He 
married, in 1761, Emma, only daughter and heir of Dr. John Gilbert, Arch- 
bishop of York. Lord Edgcumbe was created, 17th Feb., 1781, Viscount 
Mount Edgcumbe and Valletort, and 18th Aug., 1789, Earl of Mount 
Edgcumbe. 






OF MRS. DELANY. 227 

but it has given Thompson just such a fit of the gout as 
he had at Bowood last summer. Kerr has acquitted 
herself a merveille upon the journey, and if she continues 
so, I shall never find fault with her, but think myself 
lucky in getting her. 

My dear girl always judges right. I have wrote to 
Mrs. Delany since I came here. 

The Serpent made a secret of your letter so I did not 
mention it. I believe I shall write them a few lines 
from hence if I find myself in a humour, as they seemed 
to set their heart upon it. I have at last told them what 
they are like, and with my dressing, it went down very 
well, and they said they would read Milton as soon as 
they got home. She was present and laughed, and called 
them by that name. 

'Till I get safe home from this journey I cannot think 
of another, but I am sure I want no inducement to go 
to happy Welsbourne, and can never forget how kindly 
I was received there, and how pleasantly I passed my 
time. My best compliments to the "good man " and your 
agreeable brothers. I am astonished at Strephon and 
Delia being no more, but think Providence ordered it so ! 

We have been in Lord Edgecumbe's barge this morn- 
ing to a public breakfast. There was a good band of 
music, but the weather being hot they did not dance 
country dances. An elegant room seventy feet in length, 
breadth twenty-eight, height twenty -two. 

We drink tea out of doors every evening, and I propose 
staying here 'till the end of the month. I have been 
very lucky in having such fine weather, which I conclude 
you enjoy as much as I. do. I hope you have good 
nights, as well as days. Eemember me kindly to Mrs. 

Q2 



228 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Mead. Adieu, my dear sweet girl. We are just going to 
drink tea at a farm by the sea-side, where I shall wish 

for you. Car je suis toute a vous, 

G. C. COWPER. 



Mrs. Delany to the Viscountess Andover. 

Thatched House Court, 18th July, 1769. 

My dearest Lady Andover, you are very good to me 
and my letters. I entreat you encourage that happy par- 
tiality for me, which alone can make me appear worthy 
of your favour, and I must confess I would rather owe 
that distinction to your love, than your judgment, as I 
have plenty of that coin to return ; but demands of an- 
other nature, might not be in my power. 

I rejoice Miss F. Howard goes on so well, I long to 
hear she is stout enough to foot it at the ball. How 
can your ladyship talk of your "refreshing evenings 
abroad " to me panting, and choaking, with the heat and 
dust of London ? but I must do justice to my little cell 
which is rather less exposed to those two tyrants than 
might be expected. 

I have spent two days at Danson in Kent, with Mrs. 
Boyd. 1 To see an old friend happy pays one for a dusty 
journey. At my return I found our much beloved 
friend very well, though a little tired with her attendance 
in London, which nothing but the good success could 
have reconciled her to ; but she is much affected by the 
bad accounts she receives of Mr. Drummond from Bath, 
and the affliction poor Mrs. Boscawen is under for the 



1 Mrs. Boyd. Catherine, daughter of the Rev. John Chapone (and sister of 
Sally Chapone, Mrs. Sandford), married, 1st Aug., 17G6, John Boyd, Esq., 
who was created a Baronet, 2nd June, 1775. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 229 

death of her son that was abroad, a most promising 
youth, and his unfortunate end was no small aggrava- 
tion ; he ventured out in a canoe (which I suppose he 
had often before done), overset it, and was drowned. 

I wish I could say any thing comfortable of Lady H. 
Williams, but all accounts are very bad. I hate to croak 
out such harsh notes, but harmony has fled from our isle. 
Next Monday, I propose to go in search of it into 
Warwickshire, where, if I can meet with my dear Lady 
Andover, I shall secure a large share. 

In return to your question : does your ladyship go to 
Lord Aylesford's this summer, and when ? Be pleased to 
direct your next letter to me at Welsbourne near Keinton ; 
there I propose, please Grod, to be on the 25th, and if 
schemes answer, I am to meet the Duchess of Portland 
at Lord Guilford's on the 24th of August, and return 
with her to Bulstrode. I should have been glad to have 
left London a fortnight sooner and that might have given 
me a chance of spending some days at Elford, but I could 
not well desert poor Lady Stamford during her confine- 
ment, and she has been so well all the time that she has 
been very eager for company. Dash has been out of 
town, Lady Weymouth at Burley, and only comes occa- 
sionally ; but I hope some way we shall meet before I 
return to London. My best compliments and wishes 
salute Elford. Adieu : I am ever your ladyship's most 
affectionate 

And most obedient humble servant, 

M. DELANY. 

Lady Willoughby and her girl very well. Lord Guil- 
ford not well, was taken ill on the road and forced to stop 
at Oxford, but he is better. 



230 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The Viscountess Andover to Mrs. Delany. 

Elf., 24th June, 1769. 

May this letter greet yon safely arrived and well at 
Welsbourne. I imagine yon at this time on the road, 
broiling ; bnt to-morrow will, I hope, make you amends 
for to-day. May the morrows do so for all the afflicted 
people ! for within yonrs and my knowledge there are 
many most grievously so. Mrs. Frances Dalbin, who 
is at Kensington with the poor Duchess of Beaufort, 
writes to Fanny every post. We expected to have heard 
Lady Harriot 1 was gone to day, but find she yet con- 
tinues alive, though weaker every hour. The poor 
Duke 2 suffers on both sides, and all their sorrows are 
most severe ; I am sensible you must share in that of 
your friend Mrs. Boscawen's. How was she when you 
came out of town or heard of her ? 

Our dear friend's heart is ever affected for those she 
loves and I am glad she is going her progress, as I hope 
it will do her spirits good. I am afraid the Mr. Drum- 
mond you mention as ill at Bath is the archbishop's son ? 

My dear Mrs. Delany, is it impossible I can see you 
here ? I know not what to say about going to Lord 
Aylesford's ; I have not yet heard they are come to 
Packington ; as soon as they came, Lady Aylesford 
wrote word they would come here to stay some days. 
Their house is all to pieces, and I don't know whether 



1 Lady Henrietta Williams Wynn, wife of Sir Watkin Williams Wynn, 
and 3rd daughter of Charles Noel, 4th Duke of Beaufort, died at Kensington, 
24th July, 17G9, having been married only three months previously. 

2 Henry, 5th Duke of Beaufort, brother of Lady Henrietta Williams Wynn. 
His wife was Elizabeth, daughter of Admiral Boscawcn, whose brother, 
William, had lately been drowned in Jamaica. 



OF MES. DELANY. 231 

they could lodge us ; besides, Fanny's lameness will not 
permit her to lie out of the house yet ; and I am afraid 
the surgeon must not take his leave these ten days or 
more, so safely and tediously they proceed. All this 
makes me fear I should not be able to breakfast with you 
and Miss Dewes at Welsbourne, which I have had plea- 
sure in thinking of, and will do if it is in my power. 
There never were two greater recluses than my daughter 
and me. I expect Frampton here in a few days ; his 
company at present will be very acceptable, and aid, I 
hope, in dispelling the heavy gloom on my dear Fanny's 
mind for the loss of her most amiable young friend Lady 
Harriot. I hear the before-named doctor has acquired 
great honour at Oxford, and is requested to print. 

You will have shade and cool recess at Welsbourne, 
at Warwick, and at Wroxton ; and you'll carry away 
more of that place in the valuable book, I hope. Yet I 
do assure you my hill is tranquil and agreeable and grows 
luxuriantly ; I wish I could enjoy your company at it 
some of these fine evenings. Is it impossible, my dear 
Mrs. Delany? My chaise (such as it is) waits your 
commands ; I hope Miss Dewes will urge my wishes, 
and represent to you it would be easy for you and her 
to step into it. Fanny and I unite in our compliments 
to all our acquaintance at Welsbourne, particularly 
Miss Dewes, and wish her joy of your arrival. 

Your kind letters make me happy. 

Your most affectionate, 

Faithful, humble servant 

M. ANDOVER. 

I wonder whether this letter will come directly to 
you, or whether it will not travel round by London. 



232 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



2he Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Alresford, Aug. 4, 1769. 

I return you many thanks, dear madam, for giving 
me the satisfaction to know that you were arrived at 
Bulstrode. I do assure you it was a very sincere one, 
since the Duchess of Portland has laid aside her journey 
to the west, though I am heartily sorry for the cause. 
All health to Bulstrode will ever be among my warmest 
wishes. 

I cannot but be sensible of, and, indeed, dear madam, 
very grateful for, the very kind expressions of your 
friendship and compassion to me in my affliction ; how 
bitter it is, and how great the cause, I am sure I will 
not speak of to you. Every consolation that the best of 
daughters can administer I have in the tenderness of my 
poor Fanny, 1 whose own particular loss is irreparable, as 
she too well knows and feels. Our dear patient 2 here is, 
I hope and believe, in a very fair way of recovery ; but 
slowly, and not without some severe interruptions ; for 
all last week she had so violent a pain in the foot of the 
broken leg as ;to bring on a fever. She was let blood, 
and is now, I thank God, easy again, and the fever 
subsided. She is still in the same posture ; but her 
patience is admirable, and her spirits good whenever she is 
out of pain. We read to her by turns, and do all we can 
(you may believe) to cheat the weary hours, for this is the 
sixth week that she has lain without turning. Nothing 
can equal the Duke of Beaufort's tenderness ; he is the 



1 Fanny, Mrs. Boscawen's daughter, afterwards the Hon. Mrs. Levesoii dower. 

2 Elizabeth, Duchess of Beaufort, Mrs. Boscawen's youngest daughter. 



OF MKS. DELANY. 233 

best and most judicious nurse I ever saw, which must be 
the best cordial that can be administered to the suffering 
patient. 

Adieu, dearest madam. Present my affectionate, 

grateful respects to the Duchess, and favour me with 

one line when she has recovered her health- My best 

wishes attend you ; and Fanny begs you to accept hers. 

I am, with the greatest 

Esteem, your obliged and 

Affectionate servant, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 



The Countess Cowper to Miss Dewes. 

Bowood Park, Aug. 12th, 1769. 

Mr DEAREST GIRL, 

I am above a hundred miles nearer you than 
when I wrote last. I left Mount Edgecumbe on the 31st 
of last month, and got safe and well to the Down House 
in Dorsetshire on the 3rd inst. by noon. I spent four 
very agreeable days there, and got here on the 9th by 
dinner. There is not any company here at present. 
My sister is well, and seems happy. Her lord is well- 
bred, but he would not have been my choice, " mais 
chacun a son gout." Her boys are really charming, and 
I am in raptures with them, for I am not a cool admirer. 
I found your letter and Mrs. Delany's at my arrival ; 
make my acknowledgments to her for it. I am sorry to 
hear her spirits continue so indifferent in such a cheerful 
society as the Dewes's are, and in rural felicity which love 
and innocence always enjoy, but I fear I shall not partake 
of it this year, for by the time I get home I think I shall 



234 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

have had enough of travelling for this bout, and shall 
not be in a humour for any more excursions ; and you 
know I am nothing when I do not feel in a humour I 

I propose going on Monday next to Long Leat to see 
the improvements. Lord and Lady Weymouth are not 
expected there before the 20th instant ; but I think I 
cannot stay here so long, though I am much pressed to 
do so. I wrote to our amiable Bath friend 1 to ask leave 
to go to her farm, or to desire her to meet me at Long- 
leat, but have not yet received any answer ; so you see 
it will not be my fault this time, if we should not meet. 
How I pity the Dowager Duchess of Beaufort and 
Mrs. Boscawen ! Lady Edgecumbe was quite overcome 
with hearing of Mr. William Boscawen being drowned. 
He suffered, poor young man, for his obstinacy ! It was 
quite infatuation. His mother received a letter from 
him in perfect health, dated the 19th of April. His 
commission was signed here on the 20th, and on the 
21st the catastrophe happened in Jamaica at a gentle- 
man's house where he was upon a visit. 

Give my kindest compliments to Mrs. Delany, Mr. 
Dewes, your brothers, and Mrs. Mead, not forgetting 
any that remember me. May everything turn out accord- 
ing to your wishes, is, my dearest girl, the earnest 
prayer of your tender, affectionate mamma, 

Gr. C. COWPER. 



1 Mrs. Ravaud. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 235 



The Dowager Countess Goiver 1 to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill, 2 30 th Augt, 1769. 

Few, d r M rs Delany (yo r self excepted), think of y e 
absent. I was much flatter'd by yo r kind enquiries ; 
nothing in retirem* rouses and pleases more y n unex- 
pectedly to find one's self remember'd by those one 
most esteems. After I saw you I was not well for some 
time, y e fine weather I believe cur'd me and qualified 
me to persue my rural amusem te ; ill planets I hope 
won't always over-rule and prevent me y e pleasure of 
seeing you here. 

Lady Leicester 3 has been much out of health w th 
a humour y* has affected her face and teeth, more 
troublesome y n of any bad consequence. There 's no 
impropriety to say I congratulate you in finding those 
I look upon as yo r family, so much to yo r heart's 
content. To see a value set upon time such as to con- 



1 The Dowager Countess Gower was the fourth daughter of Thomas, 6th 
Earl of Thanet, who married Lady Catherine Cavendish, daughter of Henry, 
Duke of Newcastle. The Earl died in 1729, without surviving sous, and 
the Earldom and Barony devolved upon his cousin, Sackville Tufton ; the 
Barony of De Clifford, which he inherited from his grandmother, fell into 
abeyance, and his estates were inherited by his five daughters : 1, Catherine, 
married, in 1708, Edward Watson, Viscount Sondes, eldest son of the Earl of 
Rockingham ; 2, Anne, married James, Earl of Salisbury ; 3, Margaret, 
married Thomas Coke, Earl of Leicester ; 4, Mary, married, first, Anthony, 
Earl Harold, eldest son of the Duke of Kent, and secondly, John, Earl Gower ; 
5, Isabella, married, first, Lord Nassau Powlett, and secondly, Sir Francis 
Blake Delaval. 

2 Bill Hill, Berks, the seat of the Dowager Countess Gower. 

3 Lady Margaret Tufton, third daughter and coheiress of Thomas, 6th Earl 
of Thanet, and sister to Lady Gower, married, in 1718, Sir Thomas Coke, of 
Holkham, K.B., who was created, in 1728, Baron Lovel, and, in 1744, 
Viscount Coke and Earl of Leicester. He died, April 20, 1759. Their only 
sou died in 1753. 



236 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

sider how to employ it, is rare indeed ; and y* you had 
no interruption in yo r health to hinder y e enjoym* of y e 
pleasures they gave you. 

I shall be greatly obliged to you, d r madam, if 
you will let me know how the D 88 of Portland does, 
concluding by y" time you are w th her ; I much lam* y* 
she (who makes all she knows happy) sh d have any check 
to her own ease and tranquillity. I shall soon see a scene 
of distress : poor L y Albemarle 1 comes here on ffriday, 
quite shock'd and dejected at y e repeated mortality in 
her ffamily; says L y Car. AdairV behaviour latterly 
has been so good, y 1 she lov'd her as well as if she. 
had never offended her; this she may think at pres*, 
but I think and hope y e impression canot be so deep. 
I'll change my subject to y e witty and gay : ffortune has 
bless'd y 8 fforrest w th y e genius's of y e age. Mrs. Montagu, 3 
Mrs. Carter, 4 Mrs. Dunbar, 5 &c. &c., and L d Littleton, 6 
are at Suiting Wells, and sport sentim ts from morn till 
noon, from noon to dewy eve ; I molest 'em not, con- 
tenting myself in my rustick simplicity, 'tis a stupidity 
y* may be felt I don't doubt, but not by me. M rs . 
Montagu has coinenc'd author, in vindication of Shaks- 



1 Anne, daughter of Charles Lennox, 1st Duke of Richmond, married, 
Feb. 21, 1723, William-Anne, 2nd Earl of Albemarle. He died Dec. 22, 
1754. They had fifteen children, most of whom the Dowager Countess 
survived. 

- Lady Caroline Keppel, daughter of the 2nd Earl of Albemarle, married 
Robert Adair, Esq. 

8 Elizabeth Montagu, author of the Essay on Shakspeare. 

* Elizabeth Carter, the translator of Epictetus. 

5 Maria, daughter of the Rev. Mr. Hamilton, of Monaghan, Ireland, and 
wife of Lieut.-Col. George Dunbar, who, in 1781, succeeded to his father's 
Baronetcy. 

6 George, the literary Lord Lyttclton, born January 17, 1709. 



OF MES. DELANY. 237 

spear, who wants none, therefore her performance must 
be deem'd a work of supererogation ; some comend it. 
I'll have y*, because I can throw it aside w n I'm 
tired. 

Adieu. Believe me, d r mad m , 

Ever most faithfully y re , 

M. GTOWER. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Bulstrode, 3rd Sept., 1769. 

Are you* not all gazing at the Comet, and what are 
your observations ? We have seen it twice, but had not 
Mr. Lightfoot assured me it was a comet, 1 I should have 
taken it for a stream of the northern lights. Smith says 
the last comet appeared as big as the moon, this is no 
bigger than a shilling, but to make up for that Mrs. 
Anne says, " its tail is as long as the gallery at Bui- 
strode," but I suppose terrestrial affairs more than celes- 
tial take up your attention at present, and the blaze of 
Stratford will for some time eclipse sun, moon, and stars. 
And are you resolved upon the nun's habit ? a sylvan 
nymph I think would be more port-lj ! 2 tell me all 
about it, and take care, my dearest Mary, of catching cold. 
I have this moment received your dear kind letter, and 
till I read your postcript was quite in a fidget about the 
letter you had said you enclosed. I am very sorry 
poor Lady W. has been so ill, and hope your next will 



1 A comet was observed at Greenwich, in Sept. and Oct., 1769. 

2 " Port-\y." A joke alluding to the expected marriage of Miss Dewes 
with Mr. Port of Ilam, and the "sylvan" scenes which surrounded that 
beautiful place. 



238 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

confirm her being better. Surely they will send her to 
the Bath. 

I rejoiced at the fine weather we have had, as 1 
thought it would be favourable to your agreeable visit at 
Badway. I think it is a very pretty place, and am glad 
to hear they are all so happy. 

I thank God my dear friend is much better than when 
I came, and her spirits not so low. Mr. Lightfoot and 
botany go on as usual ; we are now in the chapter of 
Agaricks and Boletus's, &c. &c., this being the time of 
their perfection, and her Grace's breakfast-room, which is 
now the repository of sieves, pans, platters, and filled 
with all the productions of that nature, are spread on 
tables, windows, chairs, which with books of all kinds, 
(opened in their useful places), make an agreeable con- 
fusion ; sometimes, notwithstanding twelve chairs and 
i a couch, it is indeed a little difficult to find a seat ! but 
your inquiries are indefatigable, and I don't know whether 
they sit or stand ! Mr. Lightfoot, poor man, immersed 
in law, was obliged yesterday to leave virtu for lawyers, 
so we laid our plan for the day. This morning the 
Duchess dedicated to business, and we resolved to enjoy 
our amusements luxuriously the rest of the day. There 
were pot pouris to be made, great preparations for the 
garden room, and the many little matters which our 
happy leisure would allow us, to fill up chinks. We sat 
down comfortably to dinner, first course ended second 
almost when said her Grace, looking most earnestly at 
the road in the park, with a countenance of dismay, " A 
coach and six ! My Lord Godolphin 1 it is his livery, and 

1 Francis Godolphin, Baron Godolphin, succeeded his cousin in 1766. He 
married, first, in 1734, Lady Barbara Bcntinck, sister of William, Earl of 



OF MES. DELANY. 239 

he always comes in a coach and six, take away the dinner 
will you have any apricot tart ? what will they think of 
all these great puff balk ?" " Well, but I must have some 
tart." So we both eat tart, still her Grace watching the 
road " Well now they are just here, where's my knot- 
ting ? what shall I do without my bag ? " Said I, " Pray 
let me retire." "No, no, you must stay and entertain 
them." These preliminaries settled, the table cleared, we 
were ready to receive my Lord and Lady Godolphin, when, 
to our infinite surprise and satisfaction, the supposed coach 
and six was converted into a phaeton and whisky, with 
company who came to drive round the park. What will 
not the force of imagination do ? So we quietly pursued 
our plan of the day. We have begun Dry den's Virgil. 
The Duchess bids me tell you, with her kind compli- 
ments, that she heartily wished you had been here, 
for she is sure you would have been diverted. Did I not 
fervently join in her wish? There is no end of A. D.'s 
bagatelles. You have by this received my second letter 
finished at T. H. C., after spending the afternoon at Mrs. 
Stainford's and walking in the Queen's garden. 

I believe I have got a footman that will do, if his 
character answers. Eichard designs to go into the 
grocery business till the place comes he is in expectation 
of. I hear Mr. Mason has an estate left him of 1500 
a year by a distant relation, it is happy when fortune 
falls into such good hands. I am a little surprised at 
Mr. Gr.'s hint, which I suppose must be complied with. 

Adieu. 



Portland ; and secondly, Anne, daughter of John, Earl Fitzwilliam. Lord 
Godolphin died without issue in 1785. 



240 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Bulstrode, 17th Sept., 1769. 

I saw an article in one of the newspapers of a down- 
fall of some of the machinery at Stratford that had en- 
dangered Lord Carlisle. I rejoiced that moment that 
my dear Mary had escaped the terror of it, and hope 
your brothers were not near the spot ; perhaps it was a 
newspaper fib I hope so. 

In return for your pretty ode, the Duchess of Portland 
sends you the enclosed, with her " very affectionate com- 
pliments." 

I have finished the garden-room, and it looks very 
smart, and yesterday we deposited, in the fossil drawers 
there three baskets loads of curiosities. 

I have worked Caton 1 in the back of one of the 
chenille chairs I am doing for the Duchess, in the midst 
of purple astres which sets off his golden plumage to 
admiration. I see much wanting in making it what I 
wish, but my partial friend says she is satisfied, and 
that's enough. Mr. Lightfoot has deserted us. The 
briars of the law have laid hold of him when he would 
much rather pursue the briars of the hedges I but next 
week we hope will restore to us our botanical master ; 
en attendant we have Mr. Ehret, who goes out in search 
of curiosities in the fungus way, as this is now their 
season, and reads us a lecture on them an hour before 
tea, whilst her Grace examines all the celebrated authors 
to find out their classes. This is productive of much 
learning and of excellent observations from Mr. Eliret, 



Caton " was the Jonquil parroquet before alluded to. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 24] 

uttered in such a dialect as sometimes puzzles me (though 
he calls it English) to find out what foreign language 
it is. 

I am extremely glad to hear Lady Willoughby is so 
well recovered, and that you had a pleasant ride with 
your good friend Mrs. Mead. I won't tell you who I 
guess presented the bouquet. I don't wonder you should 
attract all three ! 

I am impatient to know if your visit to Barford con- 
cluded with a ball ; I hope it did, and that you had a 
good partner, and caught no cold. If your friend Miss 
Miller had been of the party, I should have expected an 
excellent ballad on the occasion ; some part of the subject 
would have been written, as the Italians say, con amore. 
Lady Primrose is better. 

You know that Mr. D unbar has got a great estate by 
the death of Lord Blessington. 1 

I had a letter last post from Mrs. Foley, dated from 
Newport, which they are repairing and fitting up. 

Pray, madam, send us some Shakspeare ribbon, two 
yards (or one yard) to be sure you may send in a letter. 

A letter is just come from Miss Boscawen, with an 
account that the Duchess of Beaufort is much better. 

The Duchess has sent an invitation to Mr. and Mrs. 
Garrick to come for a day or two, and tell us all that has 
passed, and I hope he will repeat his ode 2 if he comes ; 



1 William Stewart, Viscount Mountjoy and Earl of Blessington, died 
14th August, 1769, when the peerage expired. 

2 The Jubilee, at Stratford-upon-Avon, in honour of Shakspeare, began 
Sept. 4th, 1769. Garrick delivered an ode on that occasion, written by him- 
self, beginning 

" To what blest genius of the isle," &c. 
PART II. VOL. I. R 



242 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

but tliat I fear, (as plays are begun in London), but it 
would be probably my only opportunity of hearing him 
speak again. 

The Countess Cowper to Miss Dewes, at Welsbourne. 

Richmond, Sept. 21st, 1769. 

Many thanks to my dearest girl for all the entertain- 
ment she was so good as to send me. I am sorry you did 
not partake of the amusements, and admire your prudence 
in staying at home. 

Our Richmond assemblies are in great vogue this year. 
The Duke of Cumberland and Prince Ernest (the Queen's 
youngest brother) constantly come, and dance country 
dances and cottillons. The latter desired Lady Harriot 
Vernon 1 to present him to me, and said he hoped I 
would permit him " de me faire sa cour chez moi." 

The 15th instant (being the full moon,} I had an 
assembly in my great room, with above five dozen of 
wax-lights in the room. Three quadrille-tables, and one 
table for Prince Ernest for vingt-un. He came before 
eight and staid till ten, and seemed much pleased, and 
said it " was 'the finest and most elegant room he had 
ever seen." 1 did the honours well, for / lost my money I 

There were above forty in company. I had invited 
above sixty ; but some were sick, and others afraid of 
being robbed. My sister Tweeddale and all her family 
were here, and said " she did not find me rusticated by 
living in the country." Everybody seemed in good 
humour, |ind it appeared as if I literally had had above 

1 Lady Harriot Vernon was sister of William "\Vent\vortli, Karl of Stratford, 
and wife of Henry Vernon, Esq. Lady Harriot was Lady of the Bcdchanilit-r 
tu Princess Amelia. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 243 

forty friends in poor Mrs. Holman's style. I have had 
two morning water-parties, but nothing in my opinion 
is quite right without my sweet girl ! The heir apparent 
is returned home, and was at my assembly. None of 
that fidgety family can stay long in any place, but are 
always in search of new creations. I think I shall prove 
n true prophet concerning Mr. P., and by what you say 
of him there can be no reasonable objection made to him. 
And if that sweet place could be drawn near to Richmond, 
I should quite approve of it, and if it should ever belong 
to my dear girl, I should break through my resolution 
of not taking any more long journeys ! But she must 
make me two visits for one, and I desire to see the gentle- 
man before I give my consent ! I carried Lady Grace 
Hay home yesterday she is almost well, and brought 
Lady Catherine back with me. She and Mrs. Le Grand 
desire their compliments to you. Be assured, my dearest 
girl, of my unalterable affection. 

G. C. COWPER. 

On the 18th October of this year (1769), Mrs. Delany com- 
menced a manuscript book at Bulstrode, which she completed 
with her own hand. It appears to be a translation of the first 
edition of Hudson's " Flora Anglica" published in London in 
1762. It fills 474 quarto pages in manuscript, besides an ap- 
pended list of the Genera in Latin ! Notes are also added, 
among them one on " The Fir-coned Hydnum" "this was found 
at Bulstrode on fir-cones, in November 1769." Mrs. Delany 
was then in her 70th year ! but there are no blunders of the pen ! 
It is possible Mrs. Delany might have copied this from Mr. 
Lightfoot's manuscripts, who wrote the " Flora Scotioa" in Eng- 
lish, and the Catalogue of the Duchess of Portland's Museum. 
In another part of this volume are ten sheets superscribed " Mrs. 
Delany, Bulstrode, kth December, 1778," with 39 drawings of the 

R 2 



244 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

crystalline forms of minerals, and the names of 54 species of tlie 
" Systema Lapidum" of Linnaeus, with 12 pages of English de- 
scriptions of them, all by Mrs. Delany's own hand. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Bulstrode, 19th Oct. 1769. 

I have satisfied the Duchess of Portland, that your 
not accepting the honour and kindness of her invitation, 
was not want of sensibility to her favours ; but I have 
convinced her, that it would be more convenient to you 
to go directly to Lady Cowper, and impatient as I 
am to see you, I must own, I think it will be better 
than your coming here ; but when your bed is well 
aired I shall send you a summons to T. H. C. Molly 
Ker wrote her aunt word that Lady Covvper was " very 
impatient for your coming to Richmond, and was afraid 
you would be tempted to Bulstrode." I hope the visit 
intended in your neighbourhood will be before you 
come away ; I suppose he l makes it his way to Bath. 
I am impatient, with some uneasiness, for a letter from 
him. How I long to see you ! my heart and thoughts 
are full about you. Pray God guide you through the 
mazes of life, and may you meet with as few thorns and 
briars as possible ; some must be every one's lot, but as 
prudent attention to one's steps may avoid many, I 
think you will not want that caution. When an evil is 
evident it may be in our power to avoid it, but there 
are some hazards in life that bear the aspect of real ad- 
vantages, by a flattering appearance ; there our utmost 
inspection and caution will be necessary to find out the 
snake in the grass, before it has wounded us. Alas ! 



"He." Mr. Granville. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 245 

my dear M. so very careful was I of your painted silk 
negligee, as to lock it up in my japan chest, and cannot 
well give that key to anybody ; but the instant I go to 
town I will send it away to Richmond, that it may 
make its appearance, though the wearer wants not tinsel 
ornaments to set her off to advantage, and if her merit 
cannot be read in her eyes, those faithful intelligencers of 
her heart, a rich robe will only allure those who are not 
worthy of more valuable allurements ! all this is to re- 
concile you to my over carefulness about your negligee. 
As to the patterns you are to have from Mr. Ashburner, 
I fear you cannot judge very well of a pattern silk. 
I should have no objection to a rich pink, plain satin, if 
they are fashionable ; but a flimsy satin is very ugly : 
perhaps you may see something you like of mixed 
colours, (some pink by all means,) and what you like I 
shall most certainly like. It might be made, and sent 
to meet you at Richmond, and then, perhaps, you will 
not want the other. I should be afraid, as it is delicate, 
that packing backwards and forwards might hurt it ; 
but I will send it carefully if you will have it. Pray 
make my compliments to all who remember me, and 
tell Mrs.Venor I fear cards usurp the needle's dominion 
at Welsbourne, or your ruffles would be done long ago. 

I heard last packet from Ireland : Dr. Sandford pretty 
well, she much out of order, with her bad headaches. 
Mr. S. Hamilton 1 married. I think your brothers should 
congratulate him. They are all very happy with this 
wedding. 

I had a letter from Miss Boscawen last post ; she says 

1 Sackville Hamilton, afterwards Secretary of State for Ireland, married 
Arabella, daughter of Dr. Berkeley, Bishop of Cloyne. 



246 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

the Duchess of Beaufort got safe, and with very little 
fatigue, to Badminton. Mrs. Boscawen and her daughter 
at Hatchlands. Miss Boscawen says her mother is very 
well in health ; she wishes she could say there was any 
abatement of her sorrow. Adieu. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes, at the Countess Cowper's, Richmond. 

Bulstrode, 4th Nov., 17G9. 

I must thank you, my dearest Mary, for your dear 
kind letter of the 1st, though I am not just now very 
fit for writing, having had a melancholy account from 
Stoke, which I hope you will know nothing of till after 
the ball, as I know your good nature will make you feel 
for the young people, and for poor Mr. Foley, the great 
loss they sustain in Mrs. Foley. 1 The account came this 
morning from Mrs. Price the housekeeper, in a letter to 
Smith, wherein she says, " that it had pleased God to 
take her lady from them at a moment's warning" but no 
particulars the letter dated Wednesday at midnight. 
I had a letter last post from my poor Mr. Foley, written 
on the 31st, which was the day before she died! How 
uncertain are all this world's enjoyments, and the mo- 
ment that we mast resign them ! and how it points out to 
us the necessity of conducting ourselves with that recti- 
tude, that may insure us, (as far as it is in our power,) 
that happiness hereafter, which will more than recom- 
pense all our sufferings here ! 

I shall write to Miss Foley, and to Miss Tomlinson. 



The Hon. Mrs. Foley (Grace Granville) died Nov. 1st, 1769. 



OP MRS. DELANY. 247 

The shock I should think must be very great to 
Mrs. Granville, and I would have gone to her to Hamp- 
ton Court, where she is, but as I have not been very 
well, the Duchess of Portland will not let me go. I 
suppose when Lord and Lady "Wey mouth come to-day 
they may bring us some farther account. Pray be easy 
about my knee, for it is perfectly well. 

Now, as to your lottery ticket : if I don't hear by 
your answer to this that you have got one, I will write 
directly to my bankers to secure one for you. As to 
my being in town on the 1 1 th, it is uncertain ; for, 
should the weather be tolerable, and the works we have 
in hand be not finished, we shall stay most likely till 
the end of the month ; you need not fear a challenge. As 
soon as I am satisfied your bed is well aired, and should 
it be convenient, perhaps I may fetch you, and stay a 
day or two with dear Lady Cowper, but I depend on 
your telling me if it will be inconvenient, as if it is, I 
will postpone my visit. I shall finish this to-morrow 
if I have anything more to add. 

Lord and Lady Weymouth had heard nothing of Mrs. 
Foley's death till they came here. I suppose it will be 
to-day in the newspapers. If you have not your black 
silk with you, you will want it, and could you send to 
your brother Bernard to take it out of your drawers, 
and send it you ? It is, I suppose, but a week's mourn- 
ing, (according to the present fashion). You must send 
him the key of my desk to get at your keys. Mr. Foley 
was at Whitley when this sad change happened at Stoke ; 
happily so for himself to escape seeing the great shock, 
but worse for the poor girls. I am truly grieved for 
them. 



248 LIFE AND CORKESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes, at the Countess Cowper's, Richmond. 

Bulstrode, 21st Nov., 1769. 

This moment made happy with my dearest Mary's 
most cordial letter, which gave me great pleasure ; and 
I believe I should not (grateful as I am for it), have so 
soon answered it but to inform you of a letter I have 
received from Dr. Sandford, from Sandford. His father 
has been ill some time, and wrote to him that he re- 
quested to see him immediately ; upon which he imme- 
diately left Dublin, and got to Sandford on the 16th of 
this month. He found his father in a deplorable way, 
by an utter inability of receiving any kind of nourish- 
ment into his stomach ; it is apprehended by the physi- 
cians to be a palsy in the gullet, that the power of 
swallowing is quite gone, for four ounces of quicksilver 
were forced down three days before he came without 
passing on. He is kept up by broths in such a manner 
as cannot support life long ; and some alteration must 
happen soon. It is to be hoped that this state will 
give the poor wretch proper reflections on his past life, 
and make him repent. 1 The Duchess of Portland has 
been so good as to desire Dr. Sandford would come to 
Bulstrode, if he is at liberty to come within ten days. 

I am glad your ball was so pleasant ; all your plea- 
sures, all your pains, my dear Mary, are faithfully 
shared by your own A. D. Don't grudge me the latter, 
I cannot share them singly ! This makes me rest- 
less till I know you have heard from our amiable It. ; 
letters often miscarry, and unavoidable interruptions 
happen. Best and kindest compliments from hence to 

1 Thomas Sandford, of Sandibrd, Esq., died Dec., 1709. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 249 

dear Lady Cowper. I am glad you went to Hampton 
Court. We are very busy finishing our works ; and 
though my present quiet situation, with the enjoyment 
of such a friend, is suitable and pleasant to me, the 
thought of seeing my dear child gladdens my heart, 
which can never be other than most affectionate and 
faithful to one so deserving of my tenderness. Adieu. 
Mr. Achard desired me to make his best compliments. 



The Dowager Countess Gower to Mrs. Ddany. 

Holkham, 29 NoV, 1769. 

Tis long, d r madam, since I had y e pleasure of yo r 
most obliging and entertaining letter ; having nothing 
but dull thanks to return, postpon'd writing, hoping 
some chance w d bring me something worth yo r reading ; 
y l has not hapen'd, but, least you sh d think I'm superan- 
nuated and quite lost my memory, I will deferr it no 
longer. 

I came here about a week ago : to my great satisfac- 
tion found my sister extreamly well ; indeed, I have not 
seen her look more in health y n she does at pres 1 . I 
pass'd thro' London ; by w* I saw of it thought it 
empty ; indeed, it must be so, by hearing little y" y e D" 
of Marlborough's Xing; 1 she left out L y Essex, 2 her 
aunt, tho' I know she was told she sh d invite all 



1 Caroline, only daughter of John, 4th Duke of Bedford, married, in 1762, 
George, 3rd Duke of Marlborough. Their second daughter, Lady Caroline 
Spencer Churchill, was born Oct. 19, 1769. 

2 Elizabeth, daughter of Wriothesley, 2nd Duke of Bedford, was the second 
wife of William, 3rd Earl of Essex, who died Jan. 8, 1743. Their son, 
William- Anne, was the 4th Earl. 



250 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

her relations to meet y e Queen; it seems none were 
worthy but those of y e side of mama I I fancy she 
directed y e whole, tho' at Bath. 

The D 83 of Grafton, 1 I'm told, is not in y e least 
degree intoxicated w th her preferm*. I believe it ; for 
y e D 33 of B* 2 says she " wants dignity," w ch implies she 
wants insolence ! I will jump from one extream to an- 
other, to say I've had some oportunities of hearing 
y e D ss of Portland was .well ; as I look upon you as a 
bird of passage will direct y 8 to Whitehall, as y e surest 
way for it to kiss y r hands. 

Mrs. Mountagu is metamorphiz'd into a rustick; I 
c d hear noth g of her in London y e middle of Nov r . 
I have wrote to her previous to her seeing Montandre, 
y* I hope if she sh d not know her she won't deem y e 
poor woman superanuated. 

'Tis time to make Lady Leicester's complim* 8 to you. 
We both desire (if you are w th y e D s of Portland) you 
will name us to her Grace as her very h ble serv ts> 

Ever yo r most faithful! and ob l , 

M. GOWER. 



1 Elizabeth, daughter of the Rev. Sir Richard Wrottesley, Bart., became, 
June 24, 1769, the second wife of Augustus Henry, 3rd Duke of Grafton. 
Their son, Lord Henry Fitzroy, was born April 9, 1770. 

2 Gertrude, eldest daughter of John, 1st Earl Gower, and second wife 
of John, 4th Duke of Bedford. Their children were Francis, Marquis of 
Tavistock, and Caroline, Duchess of Marlborough. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 251 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Ddany. 

Badminton, Dec. 18th, 1769. 

DEAR MADAM, 

I left the Duchess of Portland so anxious and 
uneasy for Lady Weymouth's indisposition that I knew 
you will forgive me if I trouble you with an inquiry after 
her ladyship's health, and if I beg the favour of a line 
which I hope will inform me that the tranquillity of our 
dear and noble friend is as much restored as it can be 
till she has the satisfaction to see Lady Weymouth safe 
in her bed. 

I had a very wet journey last Thursday, but in the 
afternoon the rain ceased and it became so clear that we 
got as far as Marlborough, and next day reached this place 
by noon. I had the satisfaction to see my dear hostess l 
had walked to the hall-door to receive me, and I thank 
God I have found her much better than I expected : she 
can walk with a stick only, but I am better pleased when 
I see her also lean on some one for support, as she is 
still very lame and cannot bend her knees, or make a 
curtsey upon any account ; but every one tells me that 
she has made a considerable progress lately, which I 
hope will continue, as her health and spirits seem re- 
markably good. Her children are delightful, and I am 
so great a favourite with Lord Worcester 2 that when- 
ever I am long absent, he expresses much anxiety and 
apprehension lest " my Granma should be gone away 
again," which he deprecates with a degree of earnestness 



1 Elizabeth, Duchess of Beaufort. 

2 Henry Charles, afterwards 6th Duke of Beaufort. 



252 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

extremely flattering to me. The little one l does not like 
me so well, but it is impossible not to like him, for he 
is a remarkable fine fellow. I knew, my dear madam, 
you will forgive this as you. are kind enough to me to 
wish the happiness I see may obliterate the sense of that 
which / have lost. Mais cela ne se peut. Eien ne peut 
reparer les biens que j'ai perdu! Humbly to submit is 
my desire and endeavour. 

Adieu, dear madam ; accept my best wishes and the 
respects of my daughter. Fanny sends her love to Miss 
Dewes ; my kind compliments attend her with all the 
good will and good wishes of the season. 

I am, dear madam, 

Your most obliged and most faithful servant, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Badminton, Dec. 29th, 1769. 

I was so extremely sensible to the favour of your 
letter, my dear madam, that I could not easily have be- 
lieved I should let it remain ten days without acknow- 
ledgment ; but indeed, the writing hour is hard to be 
found in this goodly mansion, for though our mornings 
are of a very pleasant length, yet the greatest part of 
mine is spent in the chaise with the Duchess, which I 
think is good for her in her present circumstances, and 
she likes it too ; having a work carrying on of rooting up 
and planting, at the farther end of the park, which she 
likes to inspect. To-day Miss Fanny Howard 2 is of her 

1 Lord Charles Henry Somerset, born Dec. 12, 17G7. 

2 Frances Howard, only surviving daughter of William, Lord Andover, 
and aunt to Henry, 12th Earl of Suffolk and 5th Karl of Berkshire. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 253 

party, which gives me an opportunity to pay my respects 
to you. That agreeable young lady is a great acquisition 
to our society. I know not how long we shall keep her. 
She came yesterday from Charlton, 1 where she left Lady 
Andover with Lord Suffolk, 2 and though I heard her 
say Lady Andover was not quite well, or would have 
visited the Duchess of Beaufort, yet I hope it is rather 
her ladyship's dislike to cold journeys and bad roads 
(chose fort naturelle) than "any serious indisposition, for 
Miss Howard says, they purpose to be in London about 
the 7th of next month, which I think will be very accept- 
able news to the Duchess of Portland and to you, dear 
madam, as Lady Andover is likely to occupy a place in 
your agreeable " harpsichord," where I am sure she will 
make no discord, but in softest notes add to the har- 
mony ; the little lady, her grandaughter, is not to go 
with her to London, but to pass the winter at Charlton. 
Miss Howard is much pleased at the appointment of 
Miss F. Courtenay 3 to be maid of honour, and indeed 
every one must applaud her Majesty's choice of a lady 
of that birth, to whom it is the more agreeable since her 
brother so entirely forgot his own as to render the nido 
paterno an impossible retreat to those young ladies ! 
Lady Weymouth's perfect recovery gave me great satis- 
faction, and I was vastly obliged to you, dear madam, 
for preventing my wishes of information in that parti- 
cular. By the time I return to you I shall hope to see 
our dear and noble friend quite at ease, with the addition 



1 Charlton, the seat of the Earl of Suffolk, near Malruesbury, in Wiltshire. 

- Henry, 12th Earl of Suffolk, lost his first wife in 1767, who left one child, 
Maria Constaritia, born in the same year. She died young. 

3 Frances, daughter of William, Viscount Courtenay, married, in 1770, 
Sir John Wrottesley, Bart. 



254 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

to her family of another fine grandson. I hope this frost 
will not disagree with her Grace, nor with you, dear 
madam ; the fine sunshine which it brings, is very ac- 
ceptable here, unless it be to the Duke, who had rather 
pursue his stags though in hard rain I believe. To-day 
all he could do was to enliven our walk by some little 
dogs yelping after a hare, which I saw and wished well 
to. It has accordingly escaped, I hear ; the company it 
collected was a great ornament to the lawn, where my 
daughter Fanny, Mr. Eichard Bagott, 1 and I have had 
a fine walk, especially as we foresaw that the poor hare 
would be quitte pour la peur. 

Such are our novels, dear madam ; you judged very 
well that I had no curiosity for those of London. I 
wonder whether Mrs. Cavendish 2 suspects that her early 
suitor (for certainly he has lost no time) is charmed 
"par les beaux yeux de sa cassette." 

Adieu, dear madam : Miss Howard sends her compli- 
ments to you ; Duchess of Beaufort desires me to present 
hers with a thousand thanks for your kind inquiry ; she 
really advances visibly in her walks. Fanny is much 
yours and her dear Miss Dewes' humble servant. 

Allow me to take a title I am proud of 

Your affectionate and obliged friend. 



1 Richard, fourth son of Sir Walter Wagstaffe Bagot, and brother of 
William, 1st Baron Bagot, married, in 1783, Frances, daughter of William, 
Viscount Andover, and heir of her nephew Henry, Earl of Suffolk, &c. ; 
Richard Bagot consequently assumed the surname of Howard. 

2 The Editor cannot ascertain with certainty who this "Mrs. Cavendish" 
was. Barbara, daughter of Dr. Chandler, Bishop of Durham, married, first, 
William, son of Lord James Cavendish, and secondly, the Hon. J. Fitzwilliam, 
a General in the army. She died in March, 1780, and the (ieneral about two 
years afterwards. Richard, eldest son of Dr. Chandler, Bishop of Durham, 
married Elizabeth, daughter of Lord James Cavendish, and by Act of 
Parliament took the name of Cavendish. He died, Nov. 22, 1769. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 255 



CHAPTER XXI. 
JANUARY 1770 TO DECEMBER 1771. 

Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

T. H. C., 15th Jan., 1770. 

Do you, my beloved Mary, expect a journal from me ? 
I have not the least thoughts of it. What can it be to 
you who comes in or who goes out, either at St. James's 
or the little Thatch ? You that live in the pure air, by 
the gliding Thames, the sun glistening in its fair face in 
the morning ; and your favourite Luna at night, and for 
intellectual pleasures have you not your amiable friends 
to gladden every moment ? And much good may it 
do you. Pale Envy (or jealousy) is no inhabitant of my 
breast ; but glowing pleasure the consequence of your 
present happiness. 

I long to see the dear triumvirate, and shall soon 
attempt it. Well, now for a sketch of a journal. The 
pleasaiitest moment I spent on Saturday was when I 
scribbled a few words to you. I eat half a roasted 
onion for my supper, and I dreamt of hobgoblins ! 

Sunday morning tasted my new tea, and was almost 
poisoned with it ; made my complaint immediately, and 
hope for redress. Had a short but good sermon at 
St. James's Chapel and a very crowded Court. I was 
much embarrassed by the multitude of fine ladies' chairs 



256 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

joggling against me between chapel and Hanover Square, 
where I found my little friend pretty well, and had a little 
sparring of politics with her son ; I am to dine there on 
Friday. Came home at three ; drest and went to dinner 
to Whitehall no refusal would be taken. After dinner 
we adjourned to the little Thatch to meet Mrs. Bosca- 
wen, who promised to come, and kept her word. But 
an hour before her came Lady Tweeddale, who seems 
very well. She is much disappointed you would not 
stay in town or come up on purpose to go to the birth- 
day ball with the young ladies and Miss Nelly. " Oh, 
how like I (your picture)," says one. " Oh, how like!" 
says another. " Well," says a third, " to be sure it is 
like, but might be better." Went to bed excessively 
tired. Got up at nine, and read a lecture to my family 
on the advantages of rising early ! for want of the usual 
bell that used to call them up they are later and later. 
Well, for want of better eyes than my own I performed 
the morning duties. (Proverbs are in reserve.) Then 
came Mrs. Dunoyer, and I have settled all my duty 
pamphlets written a long letter to Mr. GL, another 
to Mrs. Boyd ; and for the bonne bouche have sprawled 
thus far to my dear Mary. 

I am just going to write a note to Mrs. Shelley. I 
dine alone ; Mrs. Chap, could not come, so my only 
companion will be the Welsbourne turkey ! worse than 
a cannibal, for they don't devour their companion ! In 
return, time is devouring me, and I must go and dress. 
Make my baise mains. A political decipherer might 
make fine work with this letter. 

Six o'clock. 

1 have this moment received your letter. A thousand 








'U*ke/ 

/? x* 

< 



OF MRS. DELANY. 257 

thanks. I rejoice my dear N. E. is safe and well. 
I am just going to make a visit to the Queen's 
house. Lady Tweeddale asked me last night " who 
is that Mrs. Travaud Miss Dewes is gone to meet." 
I felt quite angry that a wrong letter should be put to 
her loved name, and the question should be asked in 
that manner, it set me on the high ropes, and I set her 
to the best of my powers in the light she is worthy of, 
and was well backed by the Duchess of Portland. 

So now I shall seal up my gallimawfry letter. No 
words can say how tenderly 

I am ever yours, 

M. D. 



Mrs, Delany to Miss Dewes, at the Countess Camper's, Richmond. 

T. H. C., 6th Feb., 1770. 

Thanks, my sweet Mary, for your letter this moment 
received. I would by no means have you come on 
Saturday if not a tolerable day ; I leave it to your own 
judgment and to your kind friends to determine, know- 
ing they are too generous to abridge my pleasure with- 
out good reason. 

I am much obliged to Mrs. Hobart for her partial 
opinion of me, but she has been misled by those who 
are prejudiced in my favour a prejudice I cannot 
wish should be removed, much as I am friend to 
truth. I have not seen a creature to day, and have 
written six very long letters. I am first going to Lady 
Weymouth, who is pretty well, but has been a good deal 
hurried with poor Miss H. Thynne's 1 illness ; the poor 

1 The Hon. Henrietta Tliynne, daughter of Viscount Weymouth, after- 
wards Lady Chesterfield. 

PART II. VOL. I. S 



258 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

little creature has undergone much severer discipline 
than I thank God was necessary in your case having 
been twice blooded and once blistered, but the doctors now 
think her much better ; you will easily imagine what 
my dear friend has suffered on the occasion, but I hope 
when you come you will find all well. I reserve all 
chit-chat till the happy hour of seeing you ; long I have 
fasted, but every care will be forgotten when I get my 
own dear Mary again. I saw your brother Court yester- 
day ; he dined with me, and I have appointed both to 
dine with you on Saturday; and on Monday Mr. and 
Mrs. Mordaunt will drink tea here. Mrs. K. Shelley is 
a lost thing, but I don't persecute her, for I know her 
engagements in the situation she is in must be nume- 
rous ; and she gives her amiable friend this account of 
herself : " I have been a princess in an inaccessible island, 
but the enchantment is broke ; if you want an explication 
come and see." 

My best, my kindest wishes and compliments attend 
the Triumvirate. Adieu. 

Say something that's proper from me to Mrs. Hobart. 
Does she never come to town ? I might then have the 
pleasure of making my own compliments, and acknow- 
ledgments for her favourable, though undeserved, 
opinion of me. 

I won't write to-morrow, but the day after. You are 
very good in letting me hear every day, as I cannot 
conveniently come for. Horses still complaining. 



OF MBS. DELANY. 259 



Tfie Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, 30th April, (?) 1770. 

DEAR MADAM 

After I had wrote to the Duchess last Saturday, 
and sent my letter to post, I received your kind note of 
inquiry, but made no answer then, having answered your 
obliging intention by my dispatch to Bulstrode. I have 
now to add that I continue mending, have no fever, and 
am to go out when the wind ceases to be east, being in- 
deed very weak and low, and in want of air, especially if 
we could have any that were balsamic and restorative ; 
it is to be hoped May will bring it to-morrow. Mean- 
time I natter myself Miss Dewes has lost her cough, and 
that you, dear madam, find yourself the better for Bui- 
strode, and our dear Duchess as perfectly well as she 
would always be if it depended upon our wishes. 

I shall now make my court to you with some good 
news of your friend ; I sent on Saturday to inquire after 
Mrs. Montagu (Hanover Square), 1 but not liking the 
answer, I did not report it, but yesterday having sent 
again, I had this very good account, " that Mrs. Mon- 
tagu sent her compliments to me, and acquainted me 
the fever had entirely left her at ten the preceding 
evening, that she had had an exceeding good night and 
was pure well to day." 

You have better nouvellistes than I can possibly be, 
however, I will tell you all my daughter tells me. 



1 The Mrs. Montagu, "of Hanover Square," was the mother of Mr. 
Montagu, of Papplewick. " Mrs. Montagu, of Hill Street," was the authoress 
of the Essay on Shakspeare, who built for herself Montagu House in Portman 
Square. 

s 2 



260 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Mariage declaree of one of the queen's maids the last is 
first chosen Miss F. Courtnay, 1 the choice of Sir John 
Wrottesley, and who succeeds her will be the next ques- 
tion, but I have not got so far. 

Sir Jeffery Amherst 2 is one of Lord Ligonier' s 3 
executors, but his nephew I take for granted is his sole 
heir ; however I have heard nothing of his will. 

Mr. Delme has the measles, and Lady Betty 4 will nurse 
him though she has not had it. Mrs. Montagu has 
had no return of her fever, but has not been quite so 
well to-day as yesterday. 

Adieu, dear madam. My best respects wait on the 
Duchess, and love to Miss Dewes. 

Most sincerely your obliged, 

And affectionate servant, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 

Lady Bingley summonses the world to Griardini's 
concert to-night ; some free spirits escape to Ranelagh. 



1 Frances, daughter of William, Viscount Courtney, was married, June 7, 
1770, to Sir John Wrottesley, Bart. She died in 1828: 

2 Sir Jeffery Amherst was Commander-in-Chief of the British forces in 
North America from 1758 to 1764, and raised to the Peerage, as Baron 
Amherst, in 1776. 

3 John Ligonier, Baron Ligonier, of Ripley, in the county of Surrey, and 
Earl of Ligonier, died, in 1770, at the age of 91, when the Earldom became 
extinct, and the Irish Barony of Ligonier devolved upon his nephew, Edward 
Ligonier, Esq. 

* Lady Elizabeth, daughter of Henry, 4th Earl of Carlisle, married, first, in 
1769, Peter Delme 1 , Esq., who died, Sept. 5, 1789 ; and secondly, Jan. 7, 1794, 
Captain Charles Gamier, who was drowned, Dec. 16, 1796. Lady Elizabeth 
died in June, 1813. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 261 



The Hon. Mrs. JSoscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

(?) 1770. 

You seem to want nothing in your paradise, but soft 
airs and western gales. At length, thank God, these 
are arrived, and the dear lady of the mansion will, I 
hope, to-day throw aside her spinning wheel, and enjoy 
her groves, and lawns not to speak of swamps and bogs, 
as these do not sound quite so pastoral, though they may 
yield equal pleasure ; I promise myself that while you 
share it, dear madam, you will derive great benefit to 
your health. I am much pleased to find 1'aimable niece 
has parted with cough and cold. 

I sent you Mrs. Montagu's card, which I hope may 
be considered as a certificate of health. The female club 1 
I told you of is removed from their quarters, Lady 
Pembroke 2 (one of its members) objecting to a tavern ; 
it meets therefore, for the present, at certain rooms of 
Alinacks, who for another year is to provide a private 
house. It is much the subject of conversation I believe, 
and the other night I Heard many particulars relating 
to it. The first fourteen who imagined and planned it 
settled its rules and constitutions: these were formed 
upon the model of one of the clubs at Almacks. There 



1 Walpole, writing to Mr. George Montagu, on the 6th of May, 1770, says, 
" There is a new Institution that begins to make, and if it proceeds will make, 
a considerable noise. It is a club of loth sexes, to be erected at Almacks, on 
the model of that of the men of White's. Mrs. Fitzroy, Lady Pembroke, 
Mrs. Meynels, Lady Molyneux, Miss Pelham, and Miss Lloyd, are the 
foundresses. I am ashamed to say / am of so young and fashionable a 
society !" 

2 Elizabeth, second daughter of Charles Spencer, 2nd Duke of Marlborough, 
married, in 1756, Henry, 10th Earl of Pembroke and 7th of Montgomery. 



262 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

are seventy-five chosen (the whole number is to be two 
hundred). The ladies nominate and choose the gentle- 
men, and vice versd ; so that no lady can exclude a lady, 
or gentleman a gentleman ! The Duchess of Bedford 1 
was at first black-balled, but is since admitted. Duchess 
of Marlborough 2 and of Grafton 3 are also chosen. Lady 
Hertford 4 wrote to beg admittance and has obtained it ; 
also Lady Holderness, 6 Lady Rochford, 6 and Lady Har- 
rington 7 are black-balled, as is Lord March, 8 Mr. Boothby, 9 
and one or two more who think themselves pretty gen- 
tlemen du premier ordre, but it is plain the ladies are 



1 Gertrude, eldest daughter of John, 1st Earl Gower, and second wife of 
John, 4th Duke of Bedford. 

2 Caroline, only daughter of John, 4th Duke of Bedford, and wife of George, 
3rd Duke of Marlborough. Her mother was the Duke of Bedford's second 
wife, and she was consequently a grand-daughter of John, 1st Earl Gower. 

3 Elizabeth, daughter of Sir Richard Wrottesley, and second wife of 
Augustus Henry, 3rd Duke of Grafton. 

4 Alice, daughter and coheiress of Herbert, 2nd Viscount Windsor, and first 
wife of Francis, 2nd Marquis of Hertford. She died in 1 772. 

9 Mary, daughter of Francis Doublet, Member of the States of Holland, 
and wife of Robert D'Arcy, 4th Earl of Holdemess. 

6 Dorothea, second daughter of John Bloomfield, of Redwood, Esq., and 
wife of George, Lord Rochfort, eldest son of the 1st Earl of Belvedere, and 
in 1772, 2nd Earl. 

7 Caroline, eldest daughter of Charles, 2nd Duke of Grafton, and wife of 
William, 2nd Earl of Harrington. 

8 William Douglas, second son of William Douglas, 1st Duke of Quccnsbury, 
was, in 1697, created Earl of March ; he died in 1705, and was succeeded l>y 
his eldest son, William Douglas, 2nd Earl of March, who, dying in 1731, was 
succeeded by his only son, William, the 3rd Earl, here referred to, who, on 
the death of Charles, 3rd Duke of Queensbury (the husband of "Kitty, 
beautiful and young") in 1778, succeeded to his dukedom. The title of Earl 
of March, being also borne by the eldest sons of the Dukes of Richmond, 
renders it necessary to state explicitly the descent and relationships of the 
individual so repeatedly mentioned about this period. 

9 Brooke Boothby, Esq., who afterwards succeeded to his father's Baronetcy. 
He was a writer of verses, and one of the Lichficld set. He married 
Susanna, daughter and heiress of R. Bristoc, Esq. 



OF MES. DELANY. 263 

not of their opinion. Lady Molyneux 1 has accepted, but 
the Duchess of Beaufort 2 has declined, " as her health never 
permits her to sup abroad" When any of the ladies dine 
with the society they are to send word before, but supper 
comes of course and is to be served always at eleven. 
Play will be deep and constant probably. 

I am going this morning to visit Mrs. Pitt 3 by invita- 
tion ; at my return I shall have the honour to write to my 
Lady Duchess; at present, therefore, I will only add my 
kind love to Miss Dewes, and best wishes for your perfect 
health, my dear madam. I have recovered mine entirely, 
and my liberty, but where shall I go, now that there is 
no agreeable society at the little Thatch ; nothing repairs 
that loss to, 

Dear Mrs. Delany's most 

Affectionate, and obliged servant, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Tunbridge Wells, May 27th, 1770. 

I fully intended to have paid my respects to you, dear 
madam, before I left London, and to have dated my 
thanks for your kind letter from the only place that 
could possibly supply any return to it : but such were 
the continual occupations of my departure that I could 
only attend upon you in thought and imagination last 



1 Isabella, second daughter of William, 2nd Earl of Harrington, and wife of 
Charles William, 9th Viscount Molyneux, who was created Earl of Sefton, 
Nov. 30, 1771. 

2 Mrs. Boscawen's youngest daughter. 

3 Wife of Thomas Pitt, of Boconnock, afterwards created Baron Camel- 
ford. 



264 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Thursday, and take a sincere part in the pleasure you 
received from so fine a day to display all the charms and 
beauties of Bulstrode to the admiring guests; I think 
they must have been in raptures with it, and I expect 
Lady Edgecumbe (who is eloquent) to be particularly so 
upon the subject of her delightful excursion ; she pro- 
posed to return to London on Friday, if so you paid her 
the compliment to have no more fine weather after she 
was gone ; a cruel east wind succeeded to these soft 
vernal airs, and now we are really verging towards 
Christmas holydays instead of Whitsuntide. I would 
not have you guess how cold it is upon these hills ; I 
have just left a very good fire to come up and write to 
you in my chamber where there is none, and in so doing, 
/ show my love which I desire you cordially to accept ; 
it would not be worth a farthing if my heart were not 
warmer than my hands are at this present writing. In- 
stead of nightingales, blackbirds, and thrushes, here is 
a honest robin redbreast in the grove that twittles to me 
the same song he sung last November. But the worst 
part of this severe weather to me is that it is highly 
unfavourable to notre pauvre couvalescente, and causes 
pains in her legs ; however, I had the satisfaction to find 
her looking much better than when she left London, and 
that the waters had given manifest tokens of their salu- 
tary effects by a great appetite and much better sleep. 
She rides, and her lord is so good as to lead her : so 
that upon the whole I doubt not she will be much bene- 
fited by this journey, especially if we soon change this 
unseasonable cold for warm weather. Our little boys 
have blue noses with their rosy cheeks, for they run out 
and defy the cold winds ; they enliven our society, which 



OF MRS. DELANY. 265 

does not extend beyond the mansion as yet. To-morrow, 
we hear, Lord and Lady Petre ' arrive ; at present we 
know none but a Lady Diana Scot 2 with her husband 
and daughter. I never heard of this lady ; they say she 
is sister of Lord Marchmont. I have not seen her that 
I know of, for at chapel to day there seemed to be no 
females but ourselves dans le quartier des etrangers. So 
much for Tunbrige. As to London, we left it comment- 
ing upon the Mayor's reply* to his Majesty an extra- 
ordinary proceeding surely ; but of this and every thing 
else you will know more than I could tell were I there. 
I never saw Mrs. Montagu (Hill Street), after I wrote you 
last. I called to take leave of her, but she was gone with 
Lord and Lady Shelburne 4 to Hayes, and on Thursday, 
when Grarrick acted, she had Lord Chatham's 5 children 
at dinner, and carried them to the play. His lordship 



1 Robert Edward, 9th Baron Petre, m. 1st, Anne, daughter and coheiress 
of Philip Howard, Esq., in 1762; she was niece of Edward, 9th Duke 
of Norfolk, and coheiress, at his decease, to various Baronies in abeyance. 

2 Lady Diana Hume, daughter of Hugh, 3rd Earl of Marchmont, married 
Walter Scott, of Harden, M.P. Their son succeeded to the Barony of 
Polwarth in 1835. The daughter is not mentioned in Burke's English 
Peerage. 

3 On the 24th of May, 1770, Horace "Walpole mentions that the Court was 
put into confusion by the Lord Mayor, who, contrary to all precedent, added a 
volunteer speech to the remonstrance, without having furnished a copy for the 
King that he might have been prepared with an answer ; and he said although 
it was loyal and respectful, that such an innovation much discomposed the 
solemnity. It was generally believed that Home Tooke wrote the speech, 
which was placed on the records of the City and on Beckford's statue, but 
that Beckford did not pronounce that speech in the King's presence, although 
he did express dissatisfaction at the address. 

4 William, Earl of Shelburne and 1st Marquis of Lansdowne, married Sophia, 
youngest daughter of John Carteret, Earl Granville. She died Jan 5, 1771. 

5 The great Earl of Chatham. 



266 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

m 

himself was to have been of her party (Miss Mary Pitt * 
told me), had not the gout intervened; but for this 
contretemps I think my friend's box would have been 
honoured with the acclamations of the upper gallery. 

Adieu, dear madam. My best respects wait on the 
Duchess, and my kind compliments and good wishes to 
Miss Dewes. Pray let me hear from you, and believe 
me most truly yours, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 



The following letter proves that at this time the engagement 
of Miss Dewes to Mr. Port, of Ham, was declared, but that Mr. 
Granville was not satisfied with the match. 

Miss Dewes to John Port, of Ham, Esq. 

Richmond, Saturday. 
Half an hour after 7, June 9th, 1770. 

MY DEAR MR. PORT, 

I sent you such a strange and, I fear, almost un- 
intelligible scrawl last Thursday that I fear you could 
scarce make it out, but I was so much straitened in time 
that, had I not been pretty expeditious, I could not have 
written at all, which I hope will plead my excuse, other- 
wise I am sure there are many wanted. 

There were a vast many people dined at Wimbledon 
on Thursday. The Duke and Duchess of Grafton, Lord 
and Lady Jersey, Lord and Lady Newnham, 2 Mrs. How, 
Mr. and Mrs. Poyntz, Mr. Verry, and one or two more, 



1 Youngest daughter of Robert Pitt, Esq., and sister of the great Earl of 
Chatham. She died, unmarried, in 1787. 

2 George Simon Uarcourt, Viscount Nuneham, afterwards second Earl of 
llurcourt. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 267 

beside Lady Cowper, Lady Frances Bulkeley and my- 
self. We dine there again to-day ; it is to be a catch 
dinner : most of the Catch Club are to dine there in 
order to sing catches after dinner. Mrs. Chapone, I 
think, would be an addition to them. 

Lady Frances Bulkeley left us yesterday. She is a 
most worthy amiable woman. She desired me to give 
her compliments to you when I saw you. Alas ! she 
little thought how uncertain was that day ! 

It is most charming weather, and the moon as bright 
as possible every night but the last. I was true to my 
appointment last night, and was happy in thinking we 
were beholding the same object at the same hour; that 
reflection will be still a greater comfort to me as you are 
removed farther off; for our engagement shall hold good 
for every full moon (at eleven o'clock) till we meet, and 
then she will shine forth with double lustre, and every 
charm be heightened by our beholding it together. 
Till that time arrives we must console ourselves in 
thinking of each other's sincerity, and that every thing 
will turn out as we wish it, if it is for the best it should. 

" Let no fond love for earth exact a sigh, 

No doubts divert our steady steps aside ; 
Nor let us long to live, nor dread to die, 

Heaven is our hope, and Providence our guide." 

I yesterday received a very polite note from Mr. Wai- 
pole to invite me to Strawberry Hill on Monday next 
" to meet the Duchess of Portland and Mrs. Delany," 
but I am engaged, so have sent an excuse. I fear 
London this hot weather is very unpleasant to you. 
I have not heard a word about Mr. Gr. since I came. 

I must beg you will send me two or three franks to 



268 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Lady Mary Mordaunt, for I gave you the whole half 
dozen that night, and have none to her ladyship myself. 
The nosegay is still alive I Though the moon was 
not bright last night, yet we had the pleasure of con- 
templating the light of it and looking at the sky at least 
at-the same time. 

* 

As we were to be out the whole day, I rose earlier 
than usual, in order to have a little time for reading, as 
food for the mind is full as necessary as for the body, 
and I was always delighted with what Dr. Young says 
in one of his " Night Thoughts" : 

" A soul without reflection, 
Like a pile without inhabitant, 
Soon to ruin falls." 

It is rather a hardship upon our sex that we have in 
general our own education to seek after we are grown up, 
I mean as to mental qualifications. In our childhood 
writing, dancing, and music is what is most attended 
to ; and without being a pedant, such a knowledge of 
grammar as is requisite to make us speak and write cor- 
rectly is certainly necessary, and also such a knowledge 
of history that one may compare past times with the 
present, and be able to enter into conversation when 
those subjects are started, is very agreeable, and I am 
convinced one is never too old for improvement. The 
great Mrs. M'Cauly 1 (I was told by an intimate friend 
of hers) hardly knew the meaning of the word Grammar 
till she was near thirty years old, and that now all her 
productions go to the press unconnected ! 

1 Catherine Macauley, or Graham, born in Kent, 1733, died 1791. She was 
chicfl}- known for her republican spirit ; she wrote a history of England, 
from tlie accession of James I., and several political letters and pamphlets. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 269 



Sunday. 

Many thanks for your kind letter which I have just 
received. You compliment me so much on my style in 
writing that were I not quite convinced it proceeds 
from your partiality to me, I should grow too vain, 
and though I am conscious I cannot merit all you say 
on that subject, yet your praises must ever be most 
pleasing to me ; when I entered into the agreement of 
telling each other of whatever mistakes we made, it was 
chiefly from self-interest as the improvement I shall 
receive will be greater than yours, as my mistakes are 
more numerous, and if I do not find you tell me of them, 
I shall think our bargain at an end. Therefore, I am but 
half pleased at you " deferring " to acquaint me with the 
one made in my last letter, and so ends this chapter : and 
now to proceed to what is of more consequence. 

I think if you and Mr. visit it would be right to 

say to him how disappointed and mortified you were 
upon coming to London at finding so different a recep- 
tion from what you had reason to expect, especially after 
your circumstances and estates had undergone all the 
examination Mr. Dewes thought proper to make, and 
that you could not help wishing Mr. Gr. would stand 
your friend. 

As you ask my opinion this is it I own, but I am sure 
you judge better what to say than I can tell you. Do 
not take any notice to my brothers of what / think you 
should say'to Mr. Gr., but you may tell them, if you see 
Mr. Gr. you certainly shall say something to him about 
the affair, but that you shall be vastly cautious what, 
and so you must be. 



270 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

If the screen you have bought is like Mrs. Delany's 
hers is blue sarsenet (not paper), and yours should be 
green sarsenet as near the colour of your hangings as 
can be. 

Lady Cowper desires her compliments to you, and 
that she should be very glad to see you either with or 
without my brothers, but prudential reasons must pre- 
vent it for the present. A time will come when I hope 
we shall both have the superior happiness of enjoying 
together my dear Lady Cowper's company, whom the 
more you know the more you will admire, as I have 
done for these seventeen years past ! 

I am sure the length of this will make amends for the 
shortness of my last. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Bulstrode, 14th June, 1770. 

I thank God the dear Duchess is very well ; she and 
Mr. Lightfoot are now taking the grand tour round her 
Grace's dominions in search of materials for philosophic 
speculation ! I am just returned from three hours 
attendance on Mr. Davies, who is an excellent task- 
master for the exercise of patience, and is duller than 
the rocks he hammers up ; however we are going on 
tolerably well, and I hope you will not think we have 
been idle. 

Lord Titchfield * has been ill of an ague, and that has 



1 William Henry Cavendish Bentinck, Marquis of Titchfield, born 24th 
June, 1768, afterwards 4th Duke, and father of the present Duke of Portland, 
(I860). 



OP MRS. DKLANY. 271 

put off the Duke and Duchess of Portland's coming till 
Sunday or Monday. 

Thus far I wrote yesterday, but postponed finishing 
it that I might be more certain what to say about your 
coming. The Duchess-Dowager of Portland desires her 
compliments to Lady Cowper, and is extremely sorry 
she cannot at this time have the pleasure of her company 
at Bulstrode ; but the Duke and Duchess of Portland 
having been obliged to delay their coming till next week, 
and more company being engaged to meet them, puts it 
out of her power to accept Lady Cowper's obliging offer 
of bringing you next Tuesday the 20th. She will send 
her chaise for you on Wednesday the 21st very early in 
the morning, and if you set out by one o'clock you will 
be here time enough for dinner. 

Observe that the Duchess would have sent the chaise 
on Tuesday ; but I would not rob Lady Cowper of one 
day that she depended on having your company, and 
days to me now are more precious than years were 
formerly. 

As I hope soon to see my dearest Mary I will not 
enter on any interesting subject, and much I have to say, 
and much I long to see you. Pray make my best com- 
pliments to dear Lady Cowper ; I don't forget I owe her 
a visit when a favourable opportunity offers. When you 
come you will tell me if she is at home the end of July ; 
my letter called for and this moment a messenger from 
London has brought your last of the 13th, to which this 
is a full answer : forgive me, my dear Mary, and make 
my excuse to Lady Cowper that I don't take the hint 
about staying longer at Richmond ; for what are thir- 
teen days in friendship's calendar ? which is all I shall 



272 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

enjoy of my dear Mary's company for several months to 
come. 

Adieu till the 21st, when, please God, I hope we shall 
meet and say more than I can write. I will write about 
the muslin, but must stay till Mrs. Sandford is brought 
to bed, which I suppose now will be soon. 



Mrs. Delany to Lady Andovcr. 

Bulstrode, 24th June, 1770. 

Nothing can more truly denote the stupidity of my 
spirits than' a delay of answering my dear Lady Andover's 
letter, and at how low an ebb must they be when the 
balm of such a friend as I hourly converse with can't 
revive them. In such a state I ought to wrap myself 
up in my own web, and not carry my infection abroad. 
All this is a gloomy indulgence of broken spirits, and I 
will shake it off, and think of the kindness of those dear 
friends who bear with me under all my infirmities, and 
be thankful for such a transcendant blessing. 

I am, I thank God, as well or better in health than I 
could reasonably expect to be at threescore years and ten. 

I am really in pain for poor Lady Donegal, but hope 
the child's disorder has taken a favourable turn, as I 
have not seen the contrary in the newspapers. 

Our dear friend here is at present charming well. 
The Duke and Duchess of Portland came here last 
Sunday, and staid till Thursday ; it was a cordial visit. 

Yesterday Mr. Walpole and Mr. Bateman came to 
dinner, and went away at seven, so that the few hours 
they spent here was all hurry and admiration ! 



OP MRS. DELANY. 273 

I don't know what account to give your ladyship of 
my brother. My last letter from him mentioned an 
amendment in his health ; but as I have not heard very 
lately, and all accounts are that he is extremely altered 
and weak, I feel a perpetual anxiety about him. 

My dear Mary came from Richmond last Thursday, 
and the longest of her stay here will be till Thursday 
se'night ; she then goes home with her brothers. 

I don't propose seeing Warwickshire this summer. 
We are indeed short-sighted mortals ! What we fear 
most often proves an advantage, and what we most 
earnestly pursue frequently ends in sorrow! This 
should teach us the wisdom of not being too anxious 
about worldly events, and submission to that Being 
who alone knows what is best. 

Lady Gr.'s letters, and her royal correspondents, 
and the death of the late Lord Mayor 1 his will and 
testament, seem at present the common topics ; but as I 
always suspect the authenticity of newspapers, and that 
I suppose your ladyship reads them, I shall not say 
more on the subject. 

I hear Mr. Beckford has blessed the world with a 
numerous offspring. Lord Holland told him some time 
ago, he intended to go to some neighbouring place of 
London for the recovery of his health or one of his 
children's, I have my story imperfect ; but it is for 
the answer I tell it, which was that " Mr. Beckford said, 
don't by any means go there, for I lost twelve children 
there last year." 

The weather has been an emblem of the world, now 



1 The Right Hon. William Beckford, Lord Mayor, died 21st June, 1770. 
PART II. VOL. I. T 



274 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

raining now shining, some pleasant days, though not 
right summer ones, and we enjoy every moment we can 
abroad. I hope you do so at your sweet hill, and have 
the pleasure of seeing Lady Maria vie with the birds, 
butterflies, and flowers for loveliness and sweetness, and 
by her delight, add to yours. 

The Duchess's constant love attends your ladyship. 
Miss Dewes begs her respects, and we both join in 
affectionate compliments to Miss F. Howard. I am 
with true gratitude, your ladyship's most 
Affectionate and obedient 

Humble servant, 

M. DELANY. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Bulstrode, 8th July, 1770. 

I ended my last journal so abruptly that I think 
myself bound to proceed ; but to go on methodically. 

I went yesterday morning, as soon as breakfast was 
over, &c., to the cave, attended diligently till one, was 
then visited by the enchantress of the grotto ; received 
her approbation ! How forcibly partiality acts ! (but it is 
a veil I cannot wish should be laid aside ; as the greatest 
part of my merit must then vanish this by way of 
digression.) She invited me to take a tour in her chaise 
to smell her sweet hay in her farm-fields ; all our senses 
were regaled. The weather so fine and the prospects so 
enlivened by the haymakers. We called at the Lodge 
on the lawn ; went into the house to settle the plan of 
transforming it into a Gothic mansion ; inspected some 
old trees, (for botanic inquiries are never neglected) ; 



OF MRS. DELANY. 275 

the Duchess was not well enough to walk much, and 
returned home. At four dressed and dined : most 
of our conversation was of my dearest Mary, who is 
never mentioned without approbation and the kindest 
wishes. The Duchess was very sorry your brothers had 
not more time at Bulstrode ; but hopes to see them 
here, when she can show them herself what the short 
time they were here would not allow them to see. She 
went on Wednesday directly to Whitehall, dressed, and 
from thence to dine at the Duke of Portland's. The 
Duchess very indifferent ; the child well ; in her way 
thither she called at Wergman's ;* had no time to lose in 
sending the pocket-book to your brothers, or would have 
had a prettier one than she could meet there ; and she 
thought it necessary you should have a book for memo- 
randums on your travels. The evening she spent at 
Dash's with Lady Weymouth. Went next day to 
Court ; was most graciously received ; conversed with 
Paoli, who left a card next morning (she not at home as 
you may imagine) DE PAOLI. 2 she supposes written 
with his own hand, which is to be deposited in the 
cabinet of curiosities, at least placed among the reliques 
of ancient worthies. 

Thursday evening she spent at Lord Mansfield's ; 
Miss Mary Murray better. I thought you would like to 
know all her doings. The University of Oxford have sent 
her the new edition of Lister on Shells, 3 inscribed to her, 



1 Wergman, a famous jeweller. 

2 Pascal Paoli, the Corsican Chief, made his escape from that island in an 
English vessel, and came to London in Sept., 1769. 

3 Dr. Martin Lister, an eminent physician and natural philosopher, horn 
about 1638, died 171112. He published many valuable works, of which 

T 2 



276 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

and finely bound. Mr. Achard asked me ten times yester- 
day if I had heard how you performed your journey, 
and if you had lost your cough. I forgave his asking 
what was impossible to knoic, for the sake of the; ; kind- 
ness meant. You may say as Prior does somewhere, 
" Will your digressions never end ?" At seven we went 
to the garden-house ; I pasted ten sprigs over door and 
windows, and we returned home to tea. You and her 
Grace of Portland may, for aught I know, in this age of 
matrimonial disquietude, have occasioned a serious 
quarrel between a man and his wife, " of no great fame, 
for to this hour I never heard tJieir name" who came 
yesterday to see Bulstrode ; the chief thing that attracted 
their view in the great drawing-room was what do you 
think ? Not Eaphael's Holy Family, Vandyke's Sleeping 
Boy, Bernini's 1 Dog, or Gibbon's carvings, &c. ; ^but 
the spinning-wheel. " See here, my dear," says the 
husband, " this is not like your wJieel" " No, my dear" 
(says the wife) "for I spin only with one hand." 
" But," says he, " if a Duchess spins with two hands, 
surely you may ; and you'll spin as much again." " I 
spin," says she, " with one hand a very good thread ; and 
I am too old to begin a new way, though this is a very 
fine thread, indeed." The " says he" and " says shes" were 
as numerous as Mr. Garrick's story, and grew so warm 
that Mrs. Labastide hurried them through the room to 
break the thread of their dispute. The Duchess says she 



" Historic sive Synopsis Conchyliorum quorum omnium Picture ad vivum 
delineatse, exhibentur" was first published in 1685 92, and a 3rd edition of 
this work was published at Oxford, in 1770. 

1 Giovanni Lorenzo Bernini, a painter, statuary, and architect, born at 
Naples in 1598, died 1682. 



OP MRS. DELANY. 277 

is very much obliged to you for the credit she gained by 
the nice thread you left, and bid me tell you this ; she 
tried to spin yesterday, but it did not succeed as well as 
when her mistress was by. Do you approve of the band 
being slipt when the wheel is put by, as it prevents 
mischief by an accidental turn of the wheel ? We went 
to bed at our usual time. This morning, after a hasty 
breakfast, I hurried into the garden ; called on the 
Grues by the way ; no Grues appeared ; only a few 
cackling bantums and screaming guineas ; sauntered to 
the American grove ; no gold pheasants, no silver 
pheasants ; not a hare or a squirrel, or even the little 
mouse. I wanted my alluring companion, and they 
would not leave their retreats ; they peeped through 
the branches of their sweet bowers, and saw you were 
not there. I mused on till I came to my favourite 
bench, where we last sate, and there I invited all-com- 
posing contemplation. He who is truth itself has 
promised never to forsake those who serve him faithfully ; 
and he invites us to call upon him in trouble, and to 
cast our care upon him. He is the protector of inno- 
cence, and these thoughts, my dearest Mary, fill my 
heart with the most lively hopes of your enjoying the 
blessings I have reason to think you so worthy of! 
though the prospect at present is cloudy, but in good 
time these clouds will pass away. 

I long to hear from you ; sure that you will omit no 
circumstance touching your health and happiness ; both 
as dear to me as my own ; indeed, they are my very 
own. I am called. The Duke of Portland and the 
Dean of Salisbury come in the evening ; the dowager 
Duchess not satisfied with the accounts Dr. Forde sends 



278 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

her. Mrs. Dashwood comes next Friday, and stays till 
the Tuesday following; soon after that I suppose the 
Cornish expedition will begin ; I hope nothing will 
prevent it. Adieu till evening, when T will add the 
news of the day, but the newspapers lie unfolded from 
morning till night. 

After dinner we went to the flower-garden to admire 
the acacia in flower, and feed the fish ; were caught in 
a smart shower of rain ; hurried home. A messenger 
from the Duke of Portland instead of his Grace, as Lord 
Titchfield has a return of his ague ; the Duchess better, 
but still very indifferent ; if matters mend the Duke 
comes on Tuesday. And now, with the Duchess's 
" kind compliments to her mistress" and mine to all at 
Welsbourne, I conclude in good earnest. Mr. Achard's 
best compliments to Miss Dewes and the young gentle- 
men. 

Your most affectionate, 

M. D. 

I am not quite easy to-night about the Duchess ; I 
think her a little feverish, and that it will be prudent 
for her to lose a little blood before she goes on her pro- 
gress. I fancy she will go to town the latter end of 
next week. I don't propose writing again till this day 
se'nnight. No letter from Calwich. I have mended 
my snake, and no sign of its having ever been broken. 

Monday. 

The Duchess is much better to-day. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 279 



Duchess of Portland to Miss Dewes. 

Bulstrode, July 9th, 1770. 

I am extremely obliged to you, dear madam, for the 
favour of your letter ; and am very happy the pocket-book 
was agreeable to you ; the manner in which you accept 
it is very flattering to me, and I shall be happy when- 
ever I have an opportunity of assuring you with how 
much esteem, 

I am, dear madam, 

Your most affectionate 

And obedient, humble servant 

M. CAVENDISH PORTLAND. 

I am very anxious to hear you have got rid of your 
cough. Beg my compliments to Mr. Dewes and your 
brothers ; I hope they will see Bulstrode the next time 
more at their leisure. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Bulstrode, 15th July, 1770. 
Eight o'clock. 

Your letter of the 7th, my dearest Mary, I received in 
due time, and was happy to hear you had a good journey, 
and that you found all well at home. Nothing material 
has happened since my last writing to communicate, 
except Mrs. Sandford's being brought to bed of a fourth 
son, and she and the child in a good way. I have had 
the satisfaction of hearing twice since, and yesterday saw 
Mr. George Boyd, who is just come from Ireland, and 



280 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

gives a good account of all friends : he has brought over 
Lady F. B.'s muslin the prettiest I ever saw : where 
would you have me send it? and he tells me Dr. and 
Mrs. Sandford propose, (when she is strong enough to 
undertake the voyage) coming to England, and bringing 
their little family with them ; they intend spending the 
latter season at the Bath. I am sure my dear Mary will 
rejoice with me, that I shall once more see " dear 
Sally ;" indeed, it is a pleasure I hardly durst hope for 
considering her tender health and my years ! Dr. 
Sandford, in his last letter, mentioned their intention to 
me. Mr. Johnston has at last settled with him, and 
paid all that was due, which I own was more than I 
expected. 

I have had a letter from Mr. Gr , much like the last ; 
that he had made his visit, and was not the worse for it, 
and acknowledgments to the Duchess of Portland for 
her invitation to Bulstrode, and a Imff to Mr. Gar. 

I don't know what to say on a subject that occupies 
my thoughts as much as yours, but all information must 
come from your side, as I am entirely out of the way of 
hearing anything. I have nothing to recommend to 
my dearest Mary during the present state of affairs, but 
what her own excellent principles and good sense must 
suggest, hoping all will end well, but I own it is a 
severe state of trial. However, the Power that permits 
the trial, I make no doubt will support you under it. 

Now for my journal. I ended this day was se'night. 
On Monday, the Dean of Salisbury came, and staid till 
Thursday. Every day the Duke of Portland was ex- 
pected, but the Duchess was so ill, and Lord Titchfield 
had a return of his ague, which prevented his coming -. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 281 

they are both well now, and his Grace comes to- 
morrow. 

The cave goes on amain ; a month more I think 
will complete it, and Mr. Levers is about the little cell. 
The Duchess of Portland hopes all will be complete by 
the time she has the pleasure of seeing you here again 
the latter end of the year, which she depends upon ; and 
spinning will not thrive without you set the wheel a-going ! 
Mrs. Dashwood came here last Wednesday, and stays 
till Wednesday next. 

Next Thursday se'night we are to dine at Hampton 
with the Garricks, and I suppose the week after she will 
set out on her western progress. A letter came yesterday 
from Lady Edgecumbe, with a summons, and an obliging 
invitation to you and me to be of the party. I am 
almost afraid I shall be too late for my visit to Rich- 
mond, which I shall be sorry for, as I wish extremely 
to see Lady Cowper before she goes to Welsbourne. Mr. 
Kay came here yesterday, and goes away to-morrow. 
Everybody inquires for " Miss Dewes," everybody 
" sorry not to find her here." Ah, what am I ! I have 
not a sprightly anecdote to send you. 

This moment your dear letter is come. 

I never can cease wondering at the unaccountable 

behaviour of - 1 I must write to him, but with painful 

reluctance, as I never expect that cordiality which I feel 
I have a claim to, and cannot guess why it is withdrawn. 
I think I sleep better, and am, on the whole, pretty 
well, but a stroke is given that cannot be entirely healed, 
tho' I will apply all the lenients in my power. My best 
compliments and wishes to all at Welsbourne. 

1 This blank doubtless alluded to Mr. Granville. 



282 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

I have a letter from our dear B. I enclose you the 
receipt for pickled salmon, and thank you for the little 
flowers ; they retained some merit as plucked by your 
hand, but had lost their native beauty. Botany has 
been at a stand; no, Mr. Lightfoot, and company not 
worthy to be admitted into the Philosophic Cabinet, have 
been in the way, and no opportunity yet found for 
making the destined visit at Windsor, and all deferred till 
the Duchess returns from Cornwall. I have had re- 
peated letters with invitations from Lady Stamford, 1 but 
you know it is impossible for me to accept them. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

(Part of a letter.) 1770. 

The embroidery of the nankeen, &c., must be with the 
same knitting-thread as you knot with, <?<9#0n-thread 2 is 
not strong enough to bear the working. I enclose you 
what I did it with, and generally worked it double ; but 
you must judge by the effect when you try it. 

Your brothers will miss Mr. G. I fear ; I own I wished 
to have known how he would have received them, though 
upon the whole, perhaps, it is better as it is, and I believe 
they won't be sorry, but I hope they will meet with another 
friend (Mr. Port), and if they do that they will make 
my particular compliments. 

Last Monday, I told you in my last, we were to dine 

1 Lady Henrietta Cavendish Bentinck, second daughter of William, 2nd 
Duke of Portland, married, in 1763, George Harry, 5th Earl of Stamford. 

2 " Cotton-thread" was always considered very inferior to flaxen-thread, of 
which infinite varieties were made in the last century, which arc now unknown 
in < iivut Britain. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 283 

at Lady Primrose's, and to perform the long intended 
visit at Beaumont Lodge. Were at her ladyship's great 
gate at one o'clock, but no ladyship was there, but gone 
to Lady Frances Elliot's I 1 In order to console ourselves 
for the disappointment we travelled on to Cooper's Hill, 
where the Duchess of Portland never had been, and 
when we came to the point from whence the prospect 
was to be seen, her Grace got out of the chaise and 
mounted a bank with as much alacrity as if she had 
been in pursuit of a plant or a butterfly ; and after all, 
though the prospect is fine and extensive, its greatest 
beauties may be seen with less trouble the Castle of 
Windsor and the Thames. We arrived at Lady Prim- 
rose's at half an hour after two, found her but indifferent, 
always glad to see her friends, and sorry you were not 
of the party. We were treated with a triumvirate of 
old maids Mrs. Primrose and the two Mrs. Needhams : 
returned by nine. A charming day; read Sir John 
Denham's poem on Cooper's Hill ; 2 admired some part, 
and criticised others. Tuesday, a Bulstrode day. Wed- 
nesday, our engagement with the Garricks took place, 
and there my amiable niece was zealously wished for, and 
she would have been much pleased and entertained. Mr. 
Garrick did the honours of his house very respectfully, and 
tho' in high spirits seemed sensible of the honour done 
them. 3 Nobody else there but Lady Weymouth and Mr. 



1 Lady Frances Elliot, daughter of Henry, Earl of Grantham, and widow of 
Captain Elliot. 

2 Cooper's Hill, a Poem, by Sir John Denham, bom in Dublin, 1615 ; died, 
1668. 

3 These few words are a high testimony to Garrick's tact and good breeding, 
as few persons, in his class of life, know how to be " respectful " and yet in 
"high spirits," which is the greatest test of real refinement. 



284 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Bateman. As to Mrs. Garrick, the more one sees her the 
better one must like her ; she seems never to depart from 
a perfect propriety of behaviour, accompanied with good 
sense and gentleness of manners, and I cannot help look- 
ing on her as a wonderful creature, considering all circum- 
stances relating to her. The house is singular (which you 
know I like), and seems to owe its prettiness and elegance 
to her good taste ; but I saw it so short a time, and only 
passed once through the rooms, that I can't well describe 
it, but on the whole it has the air of belonging to a 
genius. We had an excellent dinner nicely served, and 
when over went directly into the garden a piece of 
irregular ground sloping down to the Thames, very well 
laid out, and planted for shade and shelter ; and an 
opening to the river which appears beautiful from that 
spot, and from Shakspeare's Temple at the end of the 
improvement, where we drank tea and coffee, and where 
there is a very fine statue of Shakspeare in white marble, 
and a great chair with a large carved frame, that was 
Shakspeare's own chair, made for him on some particular 
occasion, with a medallion of him fixed in the back. 
Many were the relics we saw of the favourite poet. 
There was not a moment I did not wish for you, know- 
ing how much you would have been entertained. At 
six o'clock Lady Weymouth's fine group of children 
walked into the garden, which added to the agreeable- 
ness of the scene, and Mr. Garrick made himself as 
suitable a companion to the children as to the rest of 
the company, to their great delight. We got home very 
well a little before ten. 

Thursday, Friday, Saturday, virtu went on as usual. 
Mr. Lightfoot here, and whilst the Duchess and he 



OF MRS. DELANY. 285 

pursued their philosophical tracks I followed my own 
business. All the difficult part of the cave is finished, 
and now there can, I think, no blunder be made in our 
absence, though my friend Davis is as liable to such a 
misfortune as any man alive ! The Duchess has engaged 
Mr. Lightfoot to come this evening to read prayers, &c., 
as Mr. Jones is obliged to go into Wales for a fortnight ; 
he stays here to-morrow to settle some botanical affairs, 
and I shall have his company, and set him down on 
Tuesday in my way to town. 

I must add I have had a letter from Mr. G., 1 
rather kind. Mr. Cannon has been with him, and the 
deeds signed, so he has got rid of me I He is gone to 
Tunbridge, and says he was glad to hear by Mr. C. that 
I looked so well, and that all were well. 

Many thanks for your letter, which welcomed me on 
my arrival home. 

I enclose you a yellow carnation, which is new to me, 
it grew at Bulstrode. I hope the Duchess of Portland 
got yesterday as far as Salisbury ; she was to stay a 
day there with the Dean. 

Your box will be with you, I hope, by next Saturday. 
I have sent Lady F. B.'s muslin, that you might 
deliver it yourself to Lady Cowper. 

I have written this post to our Eavaud, to let her 
know our Duchess will spend a day with her on her 
return from Cornwall. I believe Mrs. Mead's recipe for 
a cold a good one, if it does not clog the stomach. 



1 " Mr. G." Mr. Granville. 



28G LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



T/ie Dowager- Countess Gower to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill, 15* j^ /jo. 

D B MAD M , 

The time now draws near y l you flatter'd me 
w th y e hopes of seeing you here. I can't refrain from 
puting you in mind of it, and at y e same time to ask 
you to propose to y e Dow r -D s of Portland a scheme of 
mine, w ch I think a very good one. As her Grace goes 
westward, I can't be out of her way ; it is y 1 she may 
bring you, leave you here during her progress, and take 
you again as she returns ? I won't be y e importunate 
w 01 pressing her to stay, &c. &c., all shall submit to her 
plan. If this sh d take place, I shall think myself under 
some auspicious planet, w ch seldom falls to my lot so 
to be. 

Pray tell her I'm never unmindfull of any event, y* 
can regard her, and if I did not conclude she thinks thus 
of me I sh d have troubled her w th my congratulations 
on y e birth of her last grand son. 1 

I have heard M r8 . Mountagu is safe and well w th her 
ffamily in Yorkshire. After recovering here 'twas a great 
damper to find her son in London ill w th y e gout in 
his stomach. I'm sory for him ; he has but a melan- 
choly prospect to have such a complaint so early in life. 

Adieu, d r M rs . Delany; cofnand my post-chaise w n 
ever you please, and believe me, yo r most faithfull, 

M. GOWER. 



1 " On the 1st of July, 1770, the Duchess of Portland, of a son." " July 
24, died Lord Charles William Cavendish Bentinck, son of the Duke of 
Portland." 



OF MRS. DELANY. 287 

Mrs. Mills to Miss Dewes, at Welsbourne. 

Norbnry, July 16th, 1770. 

MY DEAR MADAM, 

Your last very kind letter is such a token of 
esteem and confidence that I cannot sufficiently acknow- 
ledge my great obligations to you for it, nor express how 
pleasing it is to me ; but give me leave to assure you I 
will endeavour in some degree to deserve your good 
opinion, by being as cautious in the affair you mention 
as you can wish. The report was in every one's mouth, 
and we were frequently asked " what our good neighbour 
said of it ?" but our reply was before I received yours 
such as you desired, having never heard him once 
mention it, nor taken the least notice of it to him, and 
you may depend upon this, that as we really knew nothing 
of it before, we shall (if possible) appear to know less. 
I need not tell you it is what we greatly wish, and many 
expect it soon to take place, for Mrs. Hodgson told me 
the other day that the next visit was to complete the 
happiness of a gentleman whom they all speak of in 
the highest terms. 

We drank tea with Mr. Granville on Saturday, and I 
hope I can now assure you he is vastly better than I 
have seen him of some time ; his looks, appetite, and 
spirits all improved, so that I hope he will recover his 
usual health. 

I have now got Mr. and Mrs. Wallhall with me and 
Miss Brooke, which makes me very happy, being very 
near relations for whom I have the most perfect regard, 
and last night Mr. Duncomb came unexpectedly, and is 
to be followed by two other Yorkshire gentlemen the 



288 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

latter end of the week, so that at present I am pretty 
much engaged, but should any thing occur the least 
material you may depend upon hearing from me. Mr. 
G-. talks of going to London very soon, and spend- 
ing a fortnight at Tunbridge before he returns, so 
that I fear we shall lose him for some time. Mr. Mills 
and Mrs. Mee are both, thank God, very well, and join 
in best regards to you and the whole family at Wels- 
bourne, with, dear Miss Dewes, 

Your most obliged and affectionate 

MARY MILLS. 

(Note in Miss Dewes's handwriting.) 

The above Mrs. Mills was married when turned forty 
to the widower of her particular friend, Rev. Mr. Mills, 
in May 1770. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes. 

Bulstrode, 22nd July, 1770. 
MY EVER KIND AND DEAR MARY, 

I was happy with your letter of the 1 2th, happy 
to receive such tender testimonies of your affection, and 
of the justice you do to mine. As to your tooth, I 
should sing a dirge over it, but that by losing it you 
have also lost your pain. May all your losses for the 
future, my dear Mary, end as happily ! The Duchess of 
Portland, I thank God, is returned from London better 
than when she went. She was blooded, and the "gentle 
Hawkins " advised " her Grace by all means to take 
her journey into Cornwall, as it would be salutary, and 






OF MRS. DELANY. 289 

establish her Grace's health." So accordingly "her 
Grace " has taken her resolution and proposes " setting 
off" (as the postilions say) on Monday the 30th of this 
month, and on the 31st I shall go to the little Thatch, 
for the Duchess would not let me go a day before. I 
design to go, please God, to the Bill Hill on the 7th of 
August. My being so late prevents my having the 
pleasure of waiting on Lady Cowper, for she writes me 
word she leaves Richmond on the 28th of this month, 
and you will soon be happy with her, and most warmly 
do I wish an increase of all your joys ; little is it in our 
power to say what is for our happiness, but we may by 
acting uprightly and submitting to all events with humi- 
lity and patience to the Great Disposer of them, secure a 
consolation to ourselves, that no accident can destroy, 
nor even the perverse wills of unruly men, though I do 
not say they will not vex and tease, for that is im- 
possible. But if I preach on, what will become of my 
journal ? I have had of late no moon to look at ; she 
keeps better hours than I do, and rises when I go to 
bed, but her fickle ladyship will soon come about again, 
and for want of that sympathetic contemplation the hay- 
makers have played their part, and whilst you are enter- 
tained with their rural processions under your window, 
I am, with those on the side of the hill, almost facing 
the lane. When I am pleased I always wish for my 
Mary to take her share ; when I am sad I am glad to 
keep it all to myself! The cave goes on briskly, and 
now it draws near a conclusion my zeal to get it finished 
increases, whilst I am working away heaping rude stones 
together (ruder than Gothic), I am entertained with the 
blackbird of the grott that comes to feed its young in 

PART II. VOL. I. U 



290 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

the opening on the top, and fears me as little as Davis 
or Daniel, and condescends to pick the crumbs I strew 
on the window for him, giving me a little twitter of 
thanks : between whiles I mind my book, and am now 
entertained with Racine's letters ; those to his son paints 
him the most amiable and best of men. With all his wit, 
admired, flattered, and a courtier, he maintains such true 
piety and such a rectitude of heart as makes me quite 
love his character. 

I have finished Lowry l and begun the seat ; probably 
shall finish it before I leave Bulstrode. At my return 
I shall begin the back of your knotting chair, but don't 
care to put it in to lye by whilst I am away. I am to 
thank you for bespeaking the spinning wheel ; the 
Duchess laughed at your " Man in the moon," and said 
you were " very droll." 

Consider what you may want from London, when I 
send the box with your stays, &c., which I shall do as 
soon as I can. I hope Mrs. Mead enjoys her health ; 
make her my very particular compliments, and as due to 
your house and neighbourhood. May peace and joy be 
in all your dwellings ! 

To-morrow we dine with Lady Primrose, where I am 
sure you will be wished for, and on Wednesday at the 
Grarricks, from whence also a particular invitation came 
to you. We have had no interruption these two days 



1 " The Lowry " must have been the beautiful Lory which the Duchess of 
Portland had. The picture of this resplendent bird was taken by Mrs. Delany 
and worked in chenille, sitting on the bough of a citron covered with blossoms. 
It was the back of a chair, the " seat " of which is here also alluded to, and 
both back and seat are in the possession of the Editor, having been left by 
the Duchess of Portland to Miss Dcwes (afterwards Mrs. Port, of Ham). The 
Lury was also painted by Ehret on vellum. 



OF MRS. DEL ANY. 291 

past from weather or company ; but have roved about in 
the park and garden, enjoying all their sweets and feed- 
ing all their happy inhabitants ; but every thing here 
says, or seems to say, where is Miss Dewes ? Numerous 
have been the births of moths and butterflies : the late 
Lord Mayor l could not boast of a more numerous pro- 
geny. Alas ! how much more innocent are they likely 
to prove than the descendants of such a man ! 

I have heard from Lady Andover all well at Elford, 
and the little boy at Fisherwick recovered, but Lady 
Donegal 2 has been ill in Ireland on receiving an account 
of his illness and not hearing again from contrary winds. 

I had a letter this morning from Dr. Sandford ; it was 
Mrs. Sandford's 14th day, and she was better then than 
she had been in any of her lyings-in. If she goes on so 
well, I suppose they will be in England by the middle 
or latter end of next month. Has not Mr. Canon been 
yet at Welsbourne ? My brother wrote me word he 
should keep in the way till he had been at Calwich. I 
shall long to know what reception and what passes when 
your brothers go there ? and what passes at Derby ? I 
need not point out to you what I want to know, sure of 
your satisfying me in all you can. Though I have pro- 
ceeded so far without taking notice of your delicate 
writing, I assure you it was not lost on me, and I ad- 
mired as I read ; but if I lose a thought or a word by 
your fine handwriting, give me the pothooks again ! There 
is this morning a hue and cry after the post boy, who 



1 Eight Hon. William Beckford, Lord Mayor of London, died, June 
21st, 1770. 

2 Anne, eldest daughter of James, 5th Duke of Hamilton, married, in 1761, 
Arthur, 5th Earl of Donegal. 

u 2 



292 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



has left us in the lurch and carried our letters the Lord 
knows where ; it is unlucky, as the Duchess of Port- 
land is uneasy to hear from Lady Weymouth, who has 
a bad cough and was to be blooded the day she came 
out of town. The letters are recovered I none but from 
Lady Weymouth : she is to meet us at the Garricks and 
Mr. B. Bateman. 

I have been shocked with reading Lady G. and the 
Duke of Cumberland's letters. 1 Such folly and wicked- 
ness, and withal so vulgar ; and as to the sister at St. 
James, 2 she makes a sad and pitiable figure, and if she 
is not an idiot I think she has as little virtue as her 
wretched sister. But I leave this sad company to their 
own remorses, and turn my thoughts to one who is a 
strong contrast to them you are good at guessing and 
must know who I mean ; but as you are fond of quota- 
tions, I will end my long scrawl with what Racine says 
to his son of one of his sisters : 

" Son esprit et son jugement sont extremement formes : 
elle a une me'moire prodigieuse, et aime passione'ment 
les bons livres; mais ce qui est de plus charmant en elle, 
c'est une douceur et une egalite d'esprit merveilleuse." 



Mrs. Ddany to Miss Dewes, at Mts. Ravautfs, Bath. 

T. H. C., 16th Aug., 1770. 

A letter yesterday from our dear E informed me 
that my dearest Mary was expected at Bath as to- 

1 On the 5th July, 1770, a trial came on, in the Court of King's Bench, 
between Lord Grosvenor and H.R.H. the Duke of Cumberland. 
a Miss Vernon, her sister, was one of the Maids of Honour. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 293 

morrow or Saturday in her way to Bristol, and I must 
send a few lines with my love to salute her on her arrival, 
hoping you have performed your journey well, and trust- 
ing a blessing will be given to the salutary waters of 
Bristol, that will establish my dearest child's health ; I 
should have been greatly tempted to have taken the 
place of my letter, but a notice I received yesterday 
from Mr. Gr , that he intends being in London on 
Sunday next, and will call on me in the evening, lays 
an embargo on me ; beside a thousand pound that is to 
be remitted from Ireland next week, obliges me to be in 
the way till that is placed out. Then I hope my dearest 
Mary will have no objection to my making her a visit at 
Bristol, as I am sure the journey would do me good, 
not to say a word of the pleasure of seeing my dear 
friends there. The spinsters I am sure will fulfil 
every desire of my heart towards you, and I hope Ber- 
nard can stay till you are settled, and will let me know 
how and where. I hope by this time the Duchess of 
Portland has been at Bath ; it would be a great satis- 
faction to her to see you, and to me to see her after- 
wards ; her judgment and goodness, at all times, are a 
cordial. I charge you not to write to me, as I am sure 
that is an improper employment for you ; a line from 
any hand to tell me how you go on, will satisfy me. 
But I cannot bear the thoughts of being an embarrass- 
ment to you or your kind nurses. 

I hope Miss Nutty Kendrick is well, and I am sure 
she will be glad to be of use to you. I shall go this 
evening to Mrs. A. Pitt, who is very kind. My love 
and good wishes ever attend the dear inhabitants of B. 



294 LIFE AND CORHESPONDENCE 

B. ; 'tis likely this waits on you there. Heaven bless 
my dearest child. 

I suppose you must rest a few days at Bath, till 
the lodgings, &c. are prepared for you at Bristol. As 
you wrote me word Lady Cowper was to come from 
Welsbourne the same day you set out for Bath, I sup- 
pose I shall soon see her, which I am most impatient to 
do, as you may believe. 

I will get some franks directed to you at Bristol Wells. 

Mr. Gr , in his letter to me, was quite anxious about 
your going to Bristol, of which he has a great opinion, 
and very desirous if it could have been to have had 
Nanny V. go with you. 

My heart beats to be with you. Adieu, I shall cer- 
tainly see Lady Cowper if possible. Whoever is good 
to my child must be dear to me. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Dewes, Bristol Wells. 

T. H. Court, 20th Aug., 1770. 

My brother came to town yesterday from Tunbridge, 
and to me at six o'clock, and looks much better than I 
expected to have seen him ; he is certainly much thinner, 
but otherwise I think he looks as well as when I saw 
him at Calwich. He was easy and good-humoured ; 
brought me some wheat ears, made me roast some for 
supper, and supped with me. Seems much satisfied that 
you are at Bristol, wishes you could take asses milk, if 
you can't, thinks buttermilk the best thing you can 
take ; he dines with me again to-day, and says he shall 
stay some days longer, and then goes directly to Calwich. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 295 

He has got a new chaise. Nothing but common subjects 
passed between us, and he seemed in better spirits than 
I expected, and does not seem to disapprove of my going 
to you, as soon as my business will permit me ; but 
wishes I was with you. How inconsistent some men are ! 
Mrs. A. Pitt made me a visit yesterday morning, and 
brought me a sweet nosegay, and Mrs. Stainforth feeds 
me with brown bread and butter from the Queen's house ; 
but what avails, or what can I relish at such a distance 
from my dear child, whom I long to be with. I hope you 
will meet with some agreeable acquaintance to pass away 
the evenings ; don't write much, and read nothing that 
requires too much attention. I don't know the nature 
of Bristol waters whether they require the same cau- 
tion as the Bath. Don't mind my scribbling questions. 
I ask no answer but to the one point regarding your 
health : how much more distressed should I have been 
at being from you, were it not for the two excellent 
spinsters, who I suppose returned to Bath to meet the 
Duchess of Portland ? I hope Court is still with you. 

Monday evening. 

My dearest Mary, a thousand thanks for your letter 
from Bristol. I rejoice you have such pleasant lodgings, 
and hope to share them with you before you leave 
Bristol. I shall direct all my letters to Bristol Wells ; 
this should be the second letter from me. God bless 
and restore my dearest child to perfect health. Mr. Gr 
dined here, and is now here, and desires compliments, 
and seems pleased at your being safe at your journey's 
end. Love to Court. 



296 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

'ITie Dowager-Countess Gower to Mrs. Ddany. 

Bill Hill, 28th Augt., 1770. 

My letter of thanks to you, d r madam, for yo r good- 
ness in complying \v* my request went to y e post ab* two 
hours before I rece'd yo rs of y e 25 th inst., w ch gave me 
great satisfaction, as y e account you give leaves no room 
to doubt but y* I shall soon hear yo r health is perfected. 
From you I have rece'd justice, w ch has not often fallen 
to my lot ; for many people w m I have been anxious to 
hear from (and mistaken in), have treated my enquiry s 
as comon complim 18 ; but sincerity suspects not hypo- 
crisy ! Since yo r child finds so soon an amendm*, there 
is great reason to think her recovery will soon be per- 
fected. I was three weeks at Bristol before I found any 
alteration, yet at y e end of six weeks I was restor'd to 
health. I can't help saying I'm glad Mr. Gr. is harm- 
lessly retird, for I had my aprehensions y l something 
might drop (tho' not designedly), y* might disturb 
you. 

I rejoice y e Dow r D" of P. is arived, pleas'd, safe, 
and well at Bulstrode. I'm sure 'twill raise yo r spirits 
to see her so. I last post rece'd a letter from I/ Hyde, 1 
full of good wishes towards you, and hope of y e choco- 
late having been of benefit. Her spirits don't seem to 
be y e least abated by y e miles she has gone. A hapy 
being ! 

I am well, tho' y e fiery enemy lurks ab l me and 



1 Charlotte, eldest daughter of William, 3rd Earl of Essex, and of his 
Countess, Jane, eldest surviving daughter of Henry Hyde, the last Earl of 
Clarendon and Rochester of that line, married the Hon. Thomas Villicrs, 
March 30, 1752, who was created Baron Hyde, May 31, 1756, and Earl of 
Clarendon, June 8, 1776. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 297 

y e forces given to my aid has not yet been powerful! 
enough to subdue it. Adieu d r Mrs. Delany. Neglect 
nothing y t>s good for you, nor undertake anything be- 
yond yo r strength. This is so safe a prescription y* I'll 
venture to sign it. 

M. a. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Tregothuan, 1 2nd Sept., 1770. 

I am inclined to natter myself, dear madam, that you 
may once have said, " Where is Mrs. Boscawen wander- 
ing ?'* and there was a day when I should have answered : 
" Here, my dear madam, at Roscrow, paying my respects 
to the spot which has been graced and honoured with 
your presence !" That circumstance alone occasioned my 
visit. / was determined to make a pilgrimage to Roscrow? 
and declared my resolution the moment I got to my 
good friend, Mrs. Hearle at Penryn. She is intimately 
acquainted with the lady now mistress of Roscrow, and 
was kind enough to go to her and obtain for me per- 
mission to survey at my leisure the house and environs. 
It is a most charming situation, reckoned now the finest 



1 Tregothnan, near Truro, in Cornwall, the seat of Viscount Falmouth. 

2 The Editor also made a " pilgrimage to Koscrow " in the autumn of 
1858, as is mentioned in a note in the 1st Vol. of this work, and many of the 
remarks of Mrs. Boscawen, in 1770, are as exactly applicable to that place now 
as they were ninety-one years ago. Among many traces and remains of the 
time when Mrs. Delany inhabited the original old " Castle of Averno" the 
Editor particularly noticed some stone vases, in the garden, which appeared 
to be hewn out of granite, and on one or two of which was carved, in the same 
material, a wreath of husks, which was the favourite ornament chosen by Mrs. 
Delany for many of her ingenious works, and probably might have been first 
adopted by her at Koscrow during the first unhappy years she spent there in 
her early youth. 



298 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

in Cornwall. Mrs. Hearle greatly prefers it to Trefusis, 
for, as one sits in the parlour at Eoscrow, you see the 
ships in Falmouth Harbour come in and go out, you 
have the finest view of that port, Pendennis Castle, St. 
Maws, Trefusis, and very agreeable landscape beside. 
The house at Eoscrow is new built, but a part of that 
which you inhabited remains; they did not show it me, 
but I had a great mind to beg leave to go into it and see 
if I could discover your name cut upon a window, as I 
did once that of Dr. Donne, 1 wrote by himself in an old 
house which he had inhabited in Surrey. If you were 
now mistress of Eoscrow, the first act of your reign 
would be to seize upon a cup for the Duchess of Port- 
land, which belonged to Queen Elizabeth. It is of silver 
gilt, but the outside is entirely covered and set full of 
amethysts of a very fine colour and large ; it stands upon 
four feet, about as big as peach stones, and these also 
are set full of smaller amethysts; the cover the same. 
Upon the whole it appeared to me to be a great curiosity 
and very beautiful, so that 'tis really worthy of a place 
in the cabinet of our noble friend ; I wish she had it. 
Fanny exclaimed, on seeing it : " Mama, here is a cup 
fit for the Duchess of Portland." 

I hope her Grace is in perfect health. I heard of her 
at Boconnoc from Lady Edgcumbe, and regretted her 
being obliged to leave the west and alter her plan for 
the sufferings of poor Mrs. Chambers. I hope her Grace's 
compassion had the intended effect, but if it had been 
convenient to her to have proceeded to the Land's End, 



1 John Donne, D.D., born 1573, died 1631. The first of the metaphysical 
school of English poets, an eminent preacher and a brilliant wit. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 299 

as we have done, I am persuaded she would not have 
disliked it, for we have had delightful weather, and her 
Grace would have descried many curious things, plants, 
fossils, &c., which have escaped our ignorant eyes. 

Helegan, 1 the 3rd Sept. 

I cannot say that I have been quite to the Land's End, 
but Fanny went thither and clambered rocks, &c., while 
I remained at a farm of my own, called Penrose, about 
three miles from the Land's End ; my poor eyes are now 
familiarised to the sight of the sea, which has cost them 
many tears, and the chamber I now inhabit looks 
directly upon it off Mevagissy. At Penryn I saw the 
vessels continually passing under my window, and at 
Penzance I went through the sea in my carriage quite 
across Mounts Bay when the tide was out ; I went also 
while I was at Penzance to St. Michael's Mount, again 
crossing the sea in my carriage ; T clambered to the top 
of that surprising rock to see St. John St. Aubyn's 
mansion and chapel. I wished for the Duchess of Port- 
land there (I imagine you have seen it), so I did at 
Castle Horneck, the seat of Dr. Borlase, 2 which commands 
the whole bay, St. Michael's Mount, and the surround- 
ing shores quite to the Lizard Point. Dr. Borlase's wife 
was at Pendarves, and he has been to visit you, though 
he has not the honour to be known to you, but by the 
respect he has for you one should suppose he knew you 
very well. He is Vice-warden of the Stannaries, and has 



1 Helygan, the seat of the Tremayne family. (Helygon, in Welsh, is the 
willow.) 

8 The Kev. William Borlase, LL.D., the eminent topographer and antiquary, 
was of Castle Horneck, near Penzance. He married Margaret Pendarves, of 
Paul. 



300 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

in his house such a collection of ores, spars, Cornish 
diamonds, &c., that I could not help telling his daugh- 
ters you were making a grotto at Bulstrode. I was not 
sure whether it is finished : if it be not and should you 
want any Cornish ores, you are to tell me, and I am to 
inform Miss Borlase, who will send you a cargo by sea 
You need not make any scruple, for they consider you 
an ally of their house, and will look upon it as a tribute 
due. I have had the satisfaction to discover that my 
steward (Mr. Greo Yeale of Penzance) being the agent 
and receiver of the Basset estate, has the charge of your 
remittances, 1 so that if they are not punctual you have 
only to tell me, and I will scold him within an inch of 
his life. I have already threatened him with my utmost 
displeasure if ever he gives you the least trouble ; but 
he has vowed that he will be punctual to a day to the 
hands of your banker, Mr. Gosling. If you do not find 
him so, I beg you will employ me. He is just now at 
Tehidy with the young people 2 (poor little flock in great 
want of a shepherd], but his dwelling is Penzance, where 
I resided with him four days. His wife is the eldest 
daughter of Dr. Borlase of Castle Horneck, consequently 
her mother was a Pendarves. 

I began this dull epistle at Tregothnan (Lord Fal- 



1 Mr. Pendarves, having died intestate, his estates devolved upon his sister's 
son, John Pendarves Basset, Esq., who died in 1739. The jointure of Mrs. 
Pendarves (Delany), therefore, remained payable from thence under their 
various proprietors. At the time when Mrs. Boscawcn wrote this letter, 
Francis Basset, of Tehidy, a minor (born in 1757), was the owner. He was 
subsequently created a Baronet, and raised to the Peerage as Baron de 
Dunstauville, and Baron Basset. 

2 The brother and four sisters of the young heir of Tehidy. The father, 
Francis Basset, Esq., had died in Nov., 17W. The mother, a daughter <>1 
Sir John St. Aubyn, Bart., appears to have been also dead. 



OP MRS. DELANY. 301 

mouth's), but being interrupted by much company to 
take leave of me, I finish it at several days distance at 
the seat of a young lady whom I partly brought up 
with my own daughters, and as I love her much, 'tis a 
great satisfaction to me to see her most happily married 
to Mr. Tremayne ! of Heligan near St. Austle, a young 
gentleman of an ancient family and good estate, and 
what is better, a most amiable worthy man. Here I 
purpose to stay till the 15th inst , so that if you could 
write me a few lines by the return of the post, it would 
reach me here and give me great satisfaction if it tells 
me you are well, and as well as your dear friend. 
Don't think of a frank, or if you must needs send it free 
direct to Ed. Hugh Boscawen at Heligan near St. Austle, 
but your letters unfranked must always be a great treat 
a tres bon marche to my dear Mrs. Delany 's 

Most faithful and very affectionate servant, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 
Fanny sends best respects. 



TJie Countess Gower to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill, 27th Sepf ., 1770. 

I/ Grower is much obliged to Mrs. Delany for giving 
her y c satisfaction of hearing she got well to Bris- 
tol, and was y e better for her journey ; hopes Miss 
Dewes's health will return under her care; y s last 



1 Arthur Tremayne, of Helygan, Cornwall, and of Sydenham, Devon- 
shire, married (according to Burke's " Commoners ") " Miss Hammond, of 
Wiltshire." 



302 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

drawback may be attributed to accidental cold. Here 
has been a very sudden change in y e weather ; shall 
always be very glad to hear of y e progress of it, w th - 
out beging for it ; for as I have seldom any ocurrence 
here to make a lett. worthy, and no ffranks, I shall not 
trouble you to read my thanks every time you merit 
'em. A sincere ffriend is of great consequence to y e 
owner ; consider y*, y n you'l easily guess how much I 
interest my self in w'ever concerns you. Adieu, d r 
madam. Pray my complim 19 to Miss Dewes. 



27;e Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Mount Edg., 1 Oct. 1st, 1770. 

MY DEAR MADAM, 

I was wishing of all things for a carrier-pigeon to 
fly from Bristol, by water or by land, to Mount Edgcumbe 
to tell me how you did after your long journey, and how 
you found your most beloved and amiable niece. For 
satisfaction on these heads I was longing, when I had 
the very great one to receive a letter from our kind and 
noble friend at Bulstrode, who says, "she thanks God 
that her dear Mrs. Delany is surprisingly mended ; bore 
her journey very well, and found herself the better for it ; 
and Miss Dewes looks much better than she expected ; 
and though her cough is not gone her other complaints 
are lessened." I will not talk to you on any other subject, 
especially as you have had the beauties of this chateau 
unique described to you by one much better qualified 
to do it justice ; I take my leave of it to-morrow, and 



1 Mount Kdgecombe, Devonshire. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 303 

proceed to Badminton, please God. There I beg, dear 
madam, 1 may hear from you how Miss Dewes's health 
is ; her young friend and myself are most affectionately 
interested in it. Next Monday it is proposed that we 
set out with the Duke and Duchess of Beaufort for 
Monmouth ; I hope our stay there won't be very long, 
and I shall hope too that at my return I shall be 
favoured with a letter from you, and a satisfactory 
account of your dear nursery. I have just heard that 
Mr. Pitt 1 went from this country in the middle of the 
last night to London on the melancholy event of the 
death of Lord Lyttleton, 2 a person so amiable that every 
one that knew him will regret him, at the same time so 
unfortunate that it almost checks one's concern. What 
pity it is that such a man should have so unworthy a 
successor ! 

Adieu, dear madam. I will not detain you longer at 
this time than to repeat my earnest wishes for your 
health and Miss Dewes's speedy recovery. My daughter 
most heartily joins in them. Lady Edgcumbe 3 is gone 
to rest (as indeed it is past midnight), or would add many 
expressions of her regard, which indeed seems a very 
just one, and claims a place for her at the little Thatch. 
There may I once more see you quite easy, enjoying 
your friends, so prays your affectionate 

F. BOSCAWEN. 



1 OfBoconnoc. 

2 George, 1st Lord Lyttelton, died August 22, 1773. Mrs. Boscawen, in 
her letter dated 19th Oct., 1770, refers to her mistake concerning his being 
dead, and thereby supplies the date of the year to this letter. 

3 Emma, only child and heir of Dr. John Gilbert, Archbishop of York, 
married, in 1761, George, 3rd Baron Edgcumbe, afterwards Earl of Mount 
Edgcumbe. 



304 LIFE AND COftftESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Delany to the Right Hon. Viscountess Andover. 

Hotwell, 6th Oct., 1770. 

I am beyond expression obliged to my dear Lady An- 
dover for her most kind letter, and inquiry after us, and 
thank God can return a good account, as I hope I may 
with truth say Miss Dewes is much mended ; she has not, 
indeed, lost the pain and soreness on her chest, but it is 
much better, and is so mixed with rheumatic pains she 
can hardly say whether that is the pain she at first 
complained of or no. Undoubtedly, she has lost many 
of her bad symptoms, and is surprisingly recovered as 
to strength and flesh. We propose, please Grod, setting 
out for dear Bulstrode on Monday se'night, and beg 
your next letter may be directed to Whitehall. 

M 's best respects and affectionate compliments 
attend your ladyship and dear Miss F. H , with those 
of dearest Lady Andover's 

Ever obliged and obedient, 

M. DELANY. 

Mrs. Shelley and Mrs. Eavaud came to Bristol with 
Miss Dewes, and staid here till last Saturday, their 
most kind attention and uncommon friendship have, 
indeed, been a great support to us both. I rejoice the 
little darling is so well. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Badminton, Oct. 19th, 1770. 

Most heartily I congratulate you, my dear madam, 
on the happy event of your journey, and the end (as I 



OF MRS. DELANY. 305 

hope) of your cares, since its good success is not now to 
be doubted, for the change of air to Bulstrode, which is 
an excellent one I believe, the asses' milk, and the quiet 
of that place, will finish what remains towards perfecting 
the recovery of your beloved patient. I hope you found 
our dear and noble friend as perfectly well as you wish 
her ; and then you must have received and given great 
pleasure at your meeting. I imagine you will enjoy all 
those which friendship and repose can give for a month 
to come, and then I imagine, the busy scene of London 
will take their place. This family does not remove till 
after Christmas, and I am kindly invited to stay with 
them ; but besides that we have no winter habiliments, I 
have been a wanderer so long, and absent from home so 
much longer than ever I was in my life, that I must 
think of returning : however, as the Duke of Beaufort 
purposes to attend the meeting of Parliament, I should 
probably stay with the Duchess during his absence of 
a week, perhaps, and not leave her till his return. She 
is well, I thank God, and much less lame than when you 
saw her. I asked her if she had seen Miss Dewes at 
Bristol : she told me no, she was " not there during her 
stay ;" but it appears her Grace was mistaken. I do not 
wonder Miss Dewes took notice of her children, for, in- 
deed, they are remarkably pretty : if she had been less 
indisposed I would quarrel with her for not claiming 
acquaintance with their mother, who would have been 
glad of such a challenge. 

I did receive your kind letter from Bulstrode, my 
dear madam, and if I did not acknowledge it in my last, 
I must seem ungrateful, but I did not feel so, and am 
always very sensible of your goodness in writing to me 

PART II. VOL. I. X 



306 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

when you must have so many, and so much pleasanter 
occupations. Indeed, my dear madam, you did well to 
visit my incomparable friends at Cote House, for you 
were worthy of them and they of you, which is saying a 
great deal on both sides. Mrs. Molyneux is, indeed, 
femme du premier ordre. You will see that I made a 
mistake, which Lord Edgcumbe's servants led us into, 
about the death of Lord Lyttelton, 1 whom Lady Edg- 
cumbe and I much regretted. I have not heard whether 
Sir Richard 2 has left any thing to Mrs. Pitt. I am 
sure you pity poor Lady Tweedale ; 3 I do indeed most 
heartily ! 

I heard Lord Digby is going to be married to a Miss 
Knowles 4 of Canterbury, file d'une rang me'diocre in all 
points, as I am informed, for I never saw her, so that it 
is reckoned a very odd choice. I do not tell you, my 
dear madam, where I have been since I wrote you last, 
the second vol. of my travels, to which, with great satis- 
faction, I put the finis last Monday, for indeed I was 
glad to be at rest. From M l . Edgcumbe I went to 
Haldown House, 5 and from thence visited Lady Clifford 6 



1 See the Note to the preceding letter, relating to Lord Lyttelton. 

5 Sir Richard Lyttelton, third hrother of George, 1st Baron Lyttelton, mar- 
ried, in 1745, Rachel, eldest daughter of Wriothesley, Duke of Bedford, ;uid 
widow of Scropc, 1st Duke of Bridgwater. He died childless, Oct 1, 1770. 
His eldest sister, Christian, was the wife of Thomas Pitt, Esq., of Boconnoc, 
and mother of Thomas Pitt, afterwards Lord Camelford. 

3 George, 5th Marquis of Tweeddale, last surviving son of Frances, daughter 
of the Earl Granville, and widow of John, 4th Marquis, died, under age, Oct. 4, 
1770. 

4 Henry, 7th Baron and 1st Earl Digby, married his second wife, Mary, 
daughter and heiress of John Knowles, of Canterbury, Esq., Nov. 10, 1770. 

8 Haldon House, Devonshire, the seat of the Palk family. 

6 Anne, 5th daughter of John Henry Lee, 2nd Earl of Lichfield, and wife of 
llii^'h, 5th Baron Clifford. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 307 

at her seat in Devonshire, where I saw the Duchess of 
Norfolk's famous embroidered bed ; it is such perfection 
that I should have thought Mrs. Delany had worked it. 
From Exeter I came through Wells and Bath to this 
place, not giving myself time to visit Lord Egmont's * 
castle or Lord Chatham's 2 pillar, though both were in 
my view, but I had promised to be of an expedition to 
Monmouth, which was performed last week, and con- 
sisted of such a perpetual gala as I was most unworthy 
to partake of. Public breakfasts of 400 races public 
dinners, balls at the Town Hall, in short, divertimenti 
sans Jin et sans cesse, fen fus exceedee. At length, etpour la 
bonne bouche, I was carried to visit Tintern Abbey, which 
is charming, Raglan Castle, which is superb ; also several 
great works or manufactories (belonging to the Duke of 
Beaufort,) forges for wrought iron and for wire, which 
are curious, and where one may fancy oneself with Vulcan 
and the Cyclops. At length we repaired to Persfield, a 
charming place which I dare say you have seen. Tasked 
Mr. Morris " whether the Duchess of Portland had ever 
been there ? " and was answered, " yes." Whenever I see 
anything fine or curious, I wish for her Grace, for the 
same reason as I wanted to send her the amethyst cup. 
We went also to Chepstow, where there is an old castle 
belonging to the Duke of Beaufort, and to Chepstow 
church, where some of his ancestors have ancient tombs ; 
afterwards we proceeded through Gloucester, where I 
saw the hospital and the cathedral, and then home, to 
my great comfort. 



1 John, 2nd Earl of Egmont. 
- William, 1st Earl of Chatham. 

x 2 



308 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

When you have ten minutes' leisure, if you will bestow 
it upon me, dear madam, and tell me how you all do at 
Bulstrode, (whither my best wishes tend,) you will ex- 
ceedingly oblige your 

Affectionate, faithful servant, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 

I beg my respects to the Duchess, my daughters 
present theirs to you. Fanny's love and mine with a 
thousand good wishes to Miss Dewes. 



Mrs. Bavaud to Mrs. Delany. 

Saturday, Nov. 10th, 1770 ? 

MY DEAR A.D., 

'Twas not a common load you removed from my 
heart yesterday, but a mountain, for ever since I heard 
the letter was gone, my apprehensions were greatly raised 
on both sides the question. Sudden transitions are 
amongst other things hard trials for the human consti- 
tution ; but, thank God, 'tis now all well over ; we may 
therefore rejoice and congratulate each other, I trust, 
without any rabbatjoie. As you may imagine, the con- 
tents of yours will remain secret ; though we have the 
highest honour for your well laid plan, the Duchess of 
Portland acts like herself, and obviates so many disagree- 
able circumstances that upon the like occasion I .should 
wish to put myself under her Grace's protection. 

How good you are to me, my dear A.D. ; my nerves 
and spirits are so shattered and trembling that I had 
given over any thoughts of moving this winter, but you 
lay such a temptation in my way that staggers all reso- 



OF MRS. DELANY. 309 

lution ; en raisonant le pour et le centre you have it 
to nothing, except the aforesaid miserable old story of 
nerves, which make me unworthy to be under your roof, 
but if these waters should put them tolerably in June, 
I question whether I shall have virtue enough to resist 
so kind and so agreeable an offer. 

I want to know if the enclosed knotting 1 is what you 
would have it, as to fineness, &c. Its merit, should it 
have any, is entirely owing to the instrument with 
which it is fabricated, the nonpareille shuttle of singular 
service, as from its elegant form it has claimed les entrees 
into the best of company. 

You have not leisure to think of tea spoons, so that I 
only mean to tell Mrs. Smith to our sorrow that I 
doubt the one enquired for may be at the other side of 
the globe, for there is no tidings of it, nor of the ser- 
vants at that time in the house. Poor Audrey was so 
joyous with the good news that she neglected all her 
business, and to-day is deep in 1'embarras des richesses. 
I dare not interrupt her ; if it was a letter from you, in- 
stead of to you we should then have every thing thrown 
about the room to read it. I mention this in justice to 
show she is not always the "silly Audrey" she is some- 
times taken for. May I send my love to the little de- 
serter from the venerable society ? Adieu, my dear A.D. 
There is no great danger of me from that quarter in this 
life, and in the next, you know, I have a strong faith 
of meeting every valuable person, therefore depend upon 



1 The Editor possesses some of Mrs. Kavaud's knotting, and probably the 
very piece referred to in this letter. It is in the original paper endorsed, in 
Mrs. Delany's hand, " Mrs. Kavaud's knotting." 



310 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

seing you, if in the interim, I do but endeavour to 
qualify myself for such good company. 

P.S. I acquitted myself of the commission, that is I 
mean to do so, but Lady Westmoreland was gone airing. 

Mrs. Ravaud's sentence in the above letter, that " Thank God, 
it is now all well over," and her allusion to her desire to put 
herself, on a similar occasion, under the Duchess of Portland's 
protection, must refer to the final arrangement of Miss Dewes' 
marriage to Mr. Port of Ham, which it was evident had been 
long opposed by her uncle, Mr. Granville, though on what 
grounds does not appear, as Mr. Port's family was very ancient, 
his estate very good, and himself very popular, and the contiguity 
of Ham to Calwich might have been supposed a favourable 
circumstance, as Mr. Granville was so partial to his niece. It 
may be inferred that the influence of the Duchess of Portland 
at last prevailed, who would not allow Mrs. Delany and Miss 
Dewes to leave Bulstrode until she was married, having obtained 
the consent of her father and Mr. Granville that the wedding 
should take place there. 



The Dowager- Countess G&wer to Mrs. Delany. 

Holkham, 1 24"* NOV., 70. 

D r M re . Delany 's letter met me here y e day I came to 
y* place. I thought it a very lucky day to me to see 
and hear two things I much wish'd : health to I/ 
Leicester, tranquillity to you, and y e restoration of Miss 
Dewes's health and spirits ; y e recipe sh d be pursu'd till 
y e cure is perfected, and I hope nothing will hapen to 
interupt y e method. 



Lady Leicester's place in Norfolk. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 311 

As soon as I can perform my promise to M ra< Monro, 
I will trouble you w th it. I shan't be empower' d till 
y e first week in January : y e ffunds sinking so low is 
y e cause of y e delay, y e purchasers money being there. 
They beg'd for y* time, and I thought 'tw d be being too 
peremptory not to grant it and give 'em y e chance of 
not being loosers by forcing 'em to sell out : 'tw a have 
marr'd y e charity. 

Yo r letters are always full of y e goodness of y e 
D 8 of Portland to one who thinks so highly of her as 
ne're to admit of a doubt of it ; but 'tis infinite pleasure 
to read a confirmation, one is not mistaken, especialy 
to me who has had a great opinion of many of my fellow 
creatures, w m time, y e revealer of truths, have discover'd 
very unworthy ! 

I/ Leicester desires her best complim* to M rs- Delany, 
as we both do to y e D 8 of P. and Miss Dewes. I always 
remain her most faithful 

M. G. 



Rousseau to Miss Dewes. 

Si je vous ai laisse, ma belle voisine, une empreint que 
vous avez bien garde'e, vous m'en avez laisse' une autre 
que j'ai garde'e encore mieux. Vous n'avez mon cachet 1 
que sur un papier qui peut le perdre, mais j'ai le votre 
empreint dans un cceur d'ou. rien ne peut I'effacer. Puis 
qu'il etait certain que j'emportais votre gage, et douteux 
que vous eussiez conserve le mien. C'etait moi seul qui 



: Mon cachet." Rousseau's seal was " Vitam impcndere vero." 



312 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

devois desirer de verifier la chose ; c'est moi seulqui perd 
a ne 1'avoir pas fait. Ai-je done besoin pour mieux sentir 
mon malheur que vous m'en fassiez encore un crime ? 
cela n'est pas trop humain, mais votre souvenir me con- 
sole de vos reproches ; j'aime mieux vous savoir injuste 
qu' indifferente, et je voudrois etre gronde de vous tous 
les jours au meme prix. Daignez done, ma belle voisine, 
ne pas oublier tout a fait votre esclave et continuer a lui 
dire quelque fois ces verites. 

Pour moi, si j'osois a mon tour vous dire les votre, 
vous me trouveriez trop galant pour un barbon. Bonjour, 
ma belle voisine, puissiez vous bientot (sous les auspices 
du cher et respectable oncle) dormer un pasteur a vos 
brebis de Calwich. 



To Mrs. Port, at Bulstrode, Buckinghamshire. 

Shelburne House, Dec. 6th, 1770. 

DEAR MRS. PORT/ 

I can't help troubling you with this, to con- 
gratulate you from my sister, as well as myself, on your 
marriage. We most sincerely hope, you will be as 



1 Mary, only daughter of John Dewes, of Welsbourne, Esq., and of Anne 
Granville, his wife, was married at Bulstrode, Bucks, Dec. 4, 1770, to John 
Port, of Ham, Esq. The Ports of Derbyshire descend from the family of Sir 
John Port, who married the heiress of Fitzherbert, of Etwall. Their son, Sir 
John, married Elizabeth, daughter of Sir Thomas Giffard, of Chillington, 
and had three daughters, coheiresses. The eldest married Sir Thomas Gerard, 
of Bryn ; the second married George, 4th Earl of Huntingdon ; the third 
married Sir Thomas Stanhope, of Shelford, ancestor of the Earls of Chester- 
field. Mr. Port, of Ham, who married Miss Dcwes, succeeded to the Ham 
estates through his mother, and consequently took the name of Port instead 
of his paternal name of Sparrow, which was of Welsh origin. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 313 

happy, as you deserve and that our friendship will 
not suffer by the changing of your name. Mama 
desires I will assure you of her best wishes. Lady 
Cowper sent us the agreeable news. I am, dear madam, 
Your affectionate cousin, 

And obedient humble servant, 

CATHERINE HAY/ 



Mrs. Delany to her Nephew, Eev. John Dewes, on his sister's marriage to 
Mr. Port, of Ham. 

Bulstrode, 7th Dec., 1770. 

I most heartily congratulate you, my dear nephew, on 
your dear sister's marriage, with a prospect of so much 
happiness as must satisfy all her friends, and I thank 
God her health is so well established, (and has been 
for some time past,) as to give the best hopes that the 
want of it will not interrupt the felicity of two worthy 
people, who seem deserving of each another ; this must 
assure you of the good opinion I have of Mr. Port, whose 
whole behaviour has been most amiable. We had but 
one alloy to our happiness, which was your not perform- 
ing the office ; it was by no means want of kind regard 
to you, but unavoidable, as the wedding was sooner than 
was designed, and to be as private as possible. The 
Duchess of Portland's excess of kindness on this occasion, 
made it incumbent on us to be entirely directed by her ; 
and she was obliged to go to town the next week. If 
I had the pleasure of seeing you I could convince you 
that no disregard was meant, and that could it have 



1 Lady Catherine Hay, daughter of John, 4th Marquis of Tweeddale, and 
Frances, 4th daughter of Earl Granville; she died at Edinburgh, Dec. 1st, 
1773. 



314 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

been so ordered your company would have been an 
additional pleasure. The bride and bridegroom and 
your two brothers are just gone, and I shall follow 
them with the Duchess. I believe everybody has been 
charmed with all the honours and pleasures they have 
received here ; as surely never was magnificence with 
ease and comfort so blended as in this house. 

Adieu, my dear Reverend. The Duchess desires her 
compliments and congratulations to you, and your father, 
to whom I beg my kind compliments, and am, 

Your most affectionate, &c. 

M. DELANY. 

My particular compliments to Mrs. Mead. 



Mrs. Mead to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

Welsbourne, Dec. 8th, 1770. 

Now give me leave, my dear Mrs. Port, to congratu- 
late you and Mr. Port on the happy event, which I 
have the pleasure of hearing from your father's letter to- 
day, was concluded at the time proposed, and be assured 
my dear friend none can more sincerely rejoice at the 
fair prospect for your happiness than Mr. Mead, myself 
and family, who join in congratulatory compliments to 
you and Mr. Port, with many wishes for your health 
and felicity. "Without the former no state can be happy ; 
but please God to grant that. 

Lord and Lady "Willoughby were with us on Thurs- 
day, when we all rejoiced in your happiness. I think 
her ladyship looks but indifferent. They are a worthy 
couple. They set out for town next week. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 315 

Miss D. Mordaunt has been here this morning, and 
desired me to make her congratulatory compliments. 
Poor Harriott has had, and has still, a slow fever, but is 
better to-day. 

I am much ashamed of this strange scrawl, especially 
upon this occasion, and should be more so to think of 
Mr. Port seeing it, had he not before had a specimen of 
my poor abilities, and I know your usual goodness will 
excuse faults ; and am with compliments and best wishes 
of Mr. Mead for every earthly blessing to you and Mr. 
Port, 

Your very affectionate friend, 

And much obliged humble servant, 

H. MEAD. 

Our compliments wait upon Mrs. Delany and your 
brothers, sincerely congratulating them. 



Mrs. Fitzwilliam to Mrs. Part, of Ham. 

Richmond, Dec. 9th, 1770. 

Amongst the number of congratulations which you 
will receive at this time, there-is none, my dear madam, 
comes with more real sincerity and affection than what I 
now convey to you in this letter. 

I hope it is needless to assure you, dear madam, how 
concerned I have been for the ill state of health you 
have been in this last summer. I truly rejoice at your 
recovery. We at Eichmond say " Mr. Port must be a very 
enviable man" to be in possession of Miss Dewes, because 
we all know nothing but his good sense and good quali- 



316 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

ties could have induced you to associate with him for life 
preferably to any other man I May I then once more 
repeat my congratulations to you, and own I feel morti- 
fied that it is not in my power to do it in person, having 
been extremely indisposed for some time past. 

I believe Mr. Fitzwilliam intends to pay his respects 
to you as soon as he thinks your hurry of company will 
be a little over. 

Being as I am, dear madam, your most obedient and 
most humble servant, 

B. FITZWILLIAM. 



Mrs. Delany to the Riyht Hon. Viscountess Andover. 

T. H. C., 27th Dec., 1770. 

I was just going to say to my dearest Lady Andover 
why don't I hear from you ? I began to form to myself 
some mishap, when happily came to my relief your lady- 
ship's most kind and beautiful packet. How good you 
are to bestow so much of your time and thoughts on the 
solitary inhabitant of the little Thatch ; but though I 
cannot send in return as delicate and elegant a testimony 
of my remembrance, I can most sincerely assure you of 
its being most constant, and full of the warmest wishes 
of the season to dear Lady Andover and those most dear 
to her. 

I am sorry for your perturbation about Lord Suffolk's 
gout, but hope his pain and your fears are over, and that 
he will enjoy better health next year for the sufferings 
of this. I am willing to natter myself, though good 
reasons detain you in the country, a secret wish will now 
and then bring you to my little corner, and though it is 



OF MES. DELANY. 317 

only a dream of pleasure, it soothes the anguish of ab- 
sence to know that inclination, if at liberty, would pre- 
vail. Well, since we cannot meet, let us write often, 
my dear friend a pretty proposal from me, and not a 
little confident who can send you no entertainment 
but what you must receive from better hands. 

Our dear friend at Whitehall has had better health 
this autumn than for two years past, and that is news I 
know will give you satisfaction. It is no news to tell 
you that she is ever true and affectionate to her dear 
Andeline. She has at present a little London cold, but 
her Grace says it is "only the snuffles," and she has pru- 
dently kept warm at home, which has almost cured it. 
I was with her last night when the packet came, and 
we equally admired the beautiful landscape, and agreed 
in what must be the natural consequence of admiring it. 
Modest as you are, this needs no explanation. She has 
indeed been much affected with the unexpected resigna- 
tion 1 and the talk of Ireland, but she flatters herself now 
that the latter will not come to pass. She certainly 
knows nothing about it, nor do I hear it talked of now 
but as a mere conjecture. As to resignation I hear no 
other reason but what the newspaper assigns, which is 
honourable, but I am sorry it was necessary for several 
reasons. 

Lord Edward Ben m . returned in perfect health. He 
and the Duke of Portland were often at Whitehall be- 
fore the duke went to Welbeck, where he and his 
duchess spend their Christmas. 



1 Lord Weymouth resigned the office of Secretary of State for the Southern 
Department, and was succeeded by the Earl of Rochford, Dec. 19, 1770. 



318 LTFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Lord Guildford is pure well, and in good spirits. That 
family and the Banisters l at this time deeply engaged, 
and I suppose the wedding will be soon. 

And now for a little of Self & Co. ! Mr. and Mrs. 
Port dine with me every day, and do all they can to 
reconcile me to the loss of my pleasant companion. They 
strive which shall show me most attention, and give me 
such good reason to be satisfied with their union that 
I should be most unkind and unreasonable not to be 
contented. Mr. Gr. has written kind congratulations to 
them. He has been ill, and I believe at this time at the 
Bath. Mrs. Port's lodging is opposite to the Thatched 
House, and they pop in and out as often as if they lived 
above stairs. How long this will continue I know not, 
for business I fear will oblige him to return home the 
very beginning of March, and I cannot wish she should 
stay behind him. My little coterie goes on a merveille, 
though I have neither beaux or belles or a gaming table. 
But those who seem to think a quiet warm room, with 
reasonable and cheerful conversation as laudable a way of 
passing two or three hours as ranting and tearing at a 
card table. I am an humble spectator and listener. 
Last Sunday my party was our dear friend Lady Wey- 
mouth, Lady Edgecumb, Lord Guilford, and Mr. T. Pit, 
who has since had an ugly accident by a fall from his 
horse at the manege, and hurt his head, so much as at 
first to be very alarming ; but he is out of danger they 
send me word, and much better. Mrs. A. Pit going to 
Bath. 

" 1 The Hon. and Rev. Brownlow North (son of the Earl of Guilford by his 
second wife), married, 17th Jan., 1771, Henrietta Maria, daughter and co- 
heiress of John Bannister, Esq. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 319 

Lady Weymouth looks already " very graceful," and 
Lady Stamford I hear is ditto. She comes up, I hope, 
at the meeting of the Parliament. Dash very complain- 
ing, and very thin, but here and there and everywhere. 

As to political news, it is above my capacity, so I go 
on to the theatres, which I hear a poor account of. At 
Drury Lane no one but Garrick, and he forced to act 
twice a week to bring any company at all. The Opera 
dismal, but a spirit of opposition has arisen which may 
mend matters, and a new opera planned by the supporters 
of Mrs. Cornelly, 1 which, as it is lawless (and that you 
know gives a zest), is to be called the Harmonick 
Assembly I 

Now, considering I am an old, a very old puss in a 
corner, is not here abundance of chat, and does it not 
remind your ladyship of a lady's saying of me some 
years ago, that / " was so pure and so chatty f I fear I 
have carried it to downright impertinence, and will only 
add my love to Miss F. H., and adieu. 

Dr. Frampton has graciously favoured me with two 
letters ! 

A thousand lamentations for your ladyship's not 
coming to town, in which I most sincerely join. 

Mr. G. at Bath in very good spirits, and I hope better 
health. 



1 Madame Cornelys. Of this person, Walpole gives an amusing account ; 
he calls her " the Heidegger of the age," and says she presided over the 
diversions. 



320 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



Mrs. Sandford to Mrs. Port, of Ham, at Mrs. Delany's, in Tliatched House 
Court, St. James's, London. 

Bath, 28th Dec., 1770. 

Though our written congratulations have not attended, 
dear Mrs. Port, as early as they ought to have done in 
ceremony, yet we hope she will have the goodness to 
believe they have most cordially attended her in the 
late change of her situation, together with our earnest 
wishes for lasting felicity. We knew how greatly your 
time must be taken up just at present, and depending 
on your justice to your friends, determined we would not 
add to jour first hurries by engaging you in more letters 
than you were already oppressed by. I hope it may 
not be long before Dr. Sandford and I shall have an 
opportunity of paying our compliments to yourself and to 
Mr. Port in person, and shall then natter ourselves with 
the hopes of being so kindly introduced to Mr. Port as 
to induce him to receive us as friends very truly soli- 
citous for your mutual happiness. We were happy 
yesterday by a most kind letter from Mrs. Delany, 
written in such good and cheerful spirits as gave us 
great satisfaction ; and I trust the unspeakable blessing 
of finding her in good health and easy spirits is not now 
far off". As she was so good to mention yours and Mr. 
Port's intention of staying in London some time longer, 
I must hope we shall reach town before you leave it, and 
be permitted to claim some share in the felicity that 
reigns among the happy society at the little Thatch. 

A. sad cold, which has entirely confined me this whole 
week, still hinders my pursuing the waters and bathing. 
I can't help feeling impatient under this hindrance, as 



OF MRS. DEL ANY. 321 

our journey to London, and afterwards our return to 
our dear little babes at Sandford, lies very near my 
heart. I also greatly lament the loss of many oppor- 
tunities which better health would have afforded me of 
enjoying the conversation of Mrs. Ravaud and Mrs. 
Shelley. I am charmed by them, particularly with your 
friend. It would be very ungrateful to the friendly 
manner in which they have received us only to say they 
have been " very obliging" to us. Tommy presumes to 
think of Mrs. Ravaud as his friend ; indeed she has been 
very kind and indulgent to me, and by that means found 
a sure method of engaging our regard, if her uncommon 
merits had not done it otherwise. 

I have been watching the Irish newspapers, hoping to 
hear pleasant accounts of Lady Lifford. 

Dr. Sandford begs leave to join his good wishes for 
many happy new years to you and Mr. Port, together 
with our own best compliments, and believe me to be 
dear Mrs. Port's 

Most obliged and affectionate 

Friend and servant, 

S. SANDFORD. 

Mr. Court Dewes in writing to his sister from Welsbourn 
on the 5th January 1771, comments upon his disappointment in 
being " the only person forgotten," and not having had an invita- 
tion to the finest entertainment that had been given in War- 
wickshire that Christmas, "a ball given by Mr. Shirley in his 
great room." 

Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of llam. 

T. C., 15th Jan., 1771. 

I was quite chagrined last night not to send your 
franks, but the key of my desk was lost, and I could not 

PAUT II. VOL. J. Y 



322 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

get at a frank to send them in. I was comforted tor 
your loss by the good weather, and by knowing you 
are happy with your dear countess. I dined with my 
little friend tSte-a-tete, and Lady Gower and Mrs. Fitzher- 
bert came in the afternoon. I returned home at ten, and 
was in a violent fuss at the loss of my key, but found it 
this morning under a basket ! Lord and Lady Dartmouth 
were here last night to see you and A. D. Yesterday 
morning, you had not been gone half an hour when in 
came my little Lord Warwick l to invite you and me to a 
little concert to-morrow to hear the fiddling woman, 
&c., and promised me I should have some of Handel ; 
but I was coy till he promised you should be of a mu- 
sical party some other time, and I am to be presented to 
Mrs. Pattoon ! He tried the harpsichord, and says it is 
very well done but out of tune : my own harpsichord is 
come and hoisted up stairs. To his little lordship suc- 
ceeded the great Mr. West, 2 who would have raised my 
vanity excessively did his heart and tongue ever go toge- 
ther I But this morning I have had a visitor who 
always puts me into good humour without flattery, his 
angelic looks and sweetness of manners drive away 
every peevish and unreasonable thought. 3 I won't 
affront your discernment and write a name under this 
picture. 

I hear the Duchess of Portland's coach wheels. " Our 
Mary " will be kindly remembered, and we shall do you 
much good by making your cheeks glow. Adieu. 



1 Francis, 8th Lord Brooke, created Earl of Warwick, 27th Nov., 175P. 

2 Benjamin West, the eminent painter. 

3 The visitor here alluded to was probably the Rev. John Dewcs, (after- 
wards (.Jranville). 



OF MRS. DELANY. 323 

Lord Suffolk Secretary of State. 1 Duke of Bedford 
dead. 2 The latter I believe true, the other rather doubt- 
ful. Lord S. declined so high an office at first, and was 
contented to accept Privy Seal ; if so, Lord Halifax will 
be the Secretary. 

The Duchess of Portland and Mrs. Delany used to call Miss 
Dewes (Mrs. Port, of Ham) " our Mary" and her daughter they 
afterwards called "their little lamb" The Editor has seen an 
ivory box, set in gold, on the lid of which, under a glass, was a 
picture wonderfully worked in hair upon white satin. In the 
foreground were two old trees opposite to each other with their 
branches extending till they met ; in the centre, under the 
branches was a little lamb. This box was given by the Duchess 
of Portland to the little G. M. A. Port, as emblematic of herself 
under the protection of the Duchess and Mrs. Delany. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port of Jlam. 

18th Jan., 1771.? 

I congratulate you, my dearest M., on your dear Mr. 
Port's finding his lost papers, &c. ; it might have been 
an affair of bad consequence, and for the time the distress 
lasted, a very great one, but, as you and Sancho say : "All's 
well that ends well." I am out of breath with writing 
cards of congratulation to all the Guildford House^ and 



1 The Earl of Suffolk was appointed Keeper of the Privy Seal, 22nd Jan., 
1771 ; and the Earl of Halifax, principal Secretary of State for the Northern 
Department. 

2 John, Duke of Bedford, died 14th Jan., 1771, and was succeeded by his 
grandson, Francis. 

Y 2 



324 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

this evening I have dispatched Will (who by-the-by is 
an exellent good lad) to leave all your tickets in due 
form. The cards of congratulation I wrote in Mr. Port's 
name as well as yours, and sent them with mine. 

Many thanks for the perusal of your enclosed letters ; 
it warms my own heart to have my dear Mary receive 
such tender testimonies of true regard. How delicate 
and attentive was Mr. P.'s caution in telling you his 
distress, and the care he took you should not be alarmed 
by the advertisement, but you deserve it all. 

I have sent to Mrs. Miller to come to me to-morrow 
morning and will do my best. I have also send to Lady 
Mary Wrottesly, 1 and I will take care about the chaise 
for Monday. I am sorry my gain should be Lady Cow- 
per's loss, but it is necessary for you to come to town on 
several accounts, and your room is kept well aired. The 
weather is so pinching that I have not courage to leave 
my own fireside, and for want of you for my chaperon 
I would not go to Lord Warwick's concert. Duchess of 
Portland, Lady Weymouth, Mrs. Bos 11 ., and Lady Wall, 
spent Wednesday afternoon. Thursday, that is yester- 
day, our dear Duchess, Lady Wey., Lady Jersey (who 
came to see you also), and my Mrs. Montague, who dined 
with me ; to-morrow the last Saturday's party meet here, 
but I shall want my brilliant Mary to be the locket to the 
bracelet and on Sunday Lady Betty Archer, 2 Lord 



1 Lady Mary Wrottesley, wife of the Rev. Sir Richard Wrottcsley, and 
daughter of John, 1st Earl Gower. She died, 30th April, 1771. 

2 Lady Betty Archer. Henry Archer, Esq., M.P. for Warwick, married 
Lrxdy Elizabeth Montagu, sister of George, Earl of Halifax. Mr. Archer died 
in 1768. 



OF MRS. DELANY. . 325 

Guildford and Mr. G. Montague. I tell you all this now, 
for when we. meet we shall have a thousand other things 
to say. This morning Miss Kitty breakfasted with me 
(a volunteer) and staid till two. The Countess of Gran- 
dison with her great hoop of beaten gold and jewels made 
such a blaze in my little nest in her way to the drawing- 
room as to amaze all beholders ; this is sufficient stuff 
for to night. Adieu ; best affections to Lady Cowper. 

I entreat you not to hurry yourself. I am sorry for 
3^our poor maid Sarah, and that I have not the skill 
Mrs. Goodwin's partiality thinks I have ; it is a com- 
plaint that requires the best advice. I have heard that 
marsh mallow tea, sweetened with a little honey, is 
good and safe. 

I have no frank to you. Apologize for me to Lady 
Cowper for being so troublesome ; I own I hate a letter 
enclosed to me and not designed for me makes me 
peevish, but such a one as this I am sure is no loss to 
her. Between the blindness of my eyes and the clumsiness 
of muffled fingers, I have, made a fine scrawl of it not 
to say a word of its confused composition. 

Foleys come next Tuesday ; and all the world comes 
next week. 



Mrs. Delany to the Right Hon. Viscountess Andover. 

Thatch'd H. Ct., 21st Jan., 1771. 

I will delay no longer making my best acknowledge- 
ments to dear Lady Andover for the favour of her last 
letter. It is strange to say that the affairs at the helm 
should have any influence on my correspondence, but 



326 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

most true it has had, and the various conjectures and 
reports which were spread one hour and contradicted the 
next, have made me delay writing in hopes of congratu- 
lating your ladyship on an event that might have proved 
agreeable to you: I will wait on the uncertainty no 
longer, being well assured that the warm wishes and 
sentiments of a friend are always welcome, the rest is 
a bubble ! So leaving high matters I will proceed to 
give some account of what has past among those who 
are so happy as to be called your friends. Supreme above 
the rest I must assure your ladyship that the Duchess 
of Portland is very well ; she had a cold for a few days, 
but keeping prudently at home in the beginning pre- 
vented its progress ; luckily the little philosopher, Mr. 
Lightfoot, came to town that week, and the science of 
shells went on prosperously. Lady Weymouth begins to 
look graceful, and her spirits pretty well, all things con- 
sidered. Lord and Lady Stamford expected soon. For 
the first fortnight after I came to town I was quite in 
a whirl, for my nephew and niece Port would not be- 
speak a table ! or a pair of shoes ! but I must give my 
opinion. I humoured them at first, but they are old and 
wise enough now to go alone, and I am too old for anything 
but my chimney corner of late the only place next to 
one's bed one could live in with any comfort. The thaw 
has moderated the severity of the weather, but such dark 
days have succeeded that there is no comfort in any em- 
ployment thus we are grumbling at every change, not 
only in the government of our kingdom, but in that of 
the icorldl Happy for us, were we as sure that the 
former tended as much to our real good as the latter. 
I may moralize on and never want for food ! Pleasure, 



OF MRS. DELANY. 327 

or ratlier vanity and folly, run high. Ladies lose vast 
sums ! it answers their purpose by killing that which will 
kill them (time), little thinking of that bar where they 
must inevitably appear and be arraigned for that murder ! 
It mortifies my sex's pride to see women expose them- 
selves so much to the contempt of the men, over whom I 
think from nature and education, if they were just to 
their own dignity, they have so many advantages ! and 
then men plead excuses women have nothing to do 
with, that they are necessarily from their situations and 
employments in life exposed to temptations. My dear 
Lady Andover, how I run on ! But it is your own fault ; 
why won't you come to town ? Writing to a friend is 
so like conversation that one forgets that what will pass 
off tolerably well in talk, is dull and tedious on paper. 
Forgive my tediousness, I entreat, and also blunders 
from the dimness of my eyes. 

Mr. Port is in Staffordshire at present, returns on 
Saturday, and I expect Mrs. Port this morning from 
Richmond, where she has been a week ; and next Thurs- 
day Dr. and Mrs. Sandford and their eldest boy come to 
town to see me for a week, in their way to Sandford, 
where they have left their other three boys and are im- 
patient to return to them. 

My first meeting with my dear Mrs. S. will be painful, 1 
but on the whole a great happiness to me to see her once 
again. 

My affectionate compliments to Miss F. H. 

I am, with the truest affection, dear Lady Andover's, 

Devoted 

M. D. 

1 " Willie painful.'" In allusion to not having seen Mrs. Sandford since 
the death of the Dean of Down. 



328 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port of Ham. 

Monday, 4th Feb., 1771. 

I was happy, my dearest Mary, with the receipt of 
your dear little square letter. The good account you 
gave of yourself laid such a foundation of good-humour, 
that I bore with tolerable composure the surprising 
account of Susan's ingratitude towards you. I own it 
was unexpected, and let her say what she will there must 
be some hidden reason for her behaving in so unaccount- 
able a manner ; this is not only my own wisdom, but 
our dear Mrs. Ravaud's, who is as much vexed at your 
disappointment as I am, but it is good to take ad- 
vantage of all events. She was too young and too little 
acquainted with service to be a comfortable servant to 
you in your present situation ; when you were more dis- 
engaged you had leisure both to direct and correct, but 
now you require a servant, who knows her business, and 
whose attention must have you principally in view. " All 
this is true, my dear A. D. ; but where shall I find her ?" 
I wish I could find such a one for you, my dear M. 
I told Smith the affair, and did not find her so much 
surprised as I expected, but very sorry it so happens. 
I have only heard of Mrs. Faulkener's niece, who lives 
with Mrs. Montagu, but have not seen her, though I 
intend it ; she is about thirty, has not been at service, 
was bred up by an aunt (now dead) who kept a ware- 
house for hats and cloaks, &c., and no doubt would be 
happy to come to you ; but the great objection is not 
having been at service, for having known what it is to 
serve, only can make them know the value of a good 
mistress. Is not " the cousin " at the Bath at the bottom 
of all this ? I am anxious to have you get a servant 



OF MRS. DELANY. 329 

that may be comfortable to you ; but the task is difficult 
at so short a warning. 

So now for the journal. Last Thursday I had a visit 
from Lady M. Forbes, which I neither expected nor 
desired. 1 Poor thing ! she raised my compassion, was 
quiet, her visit short, and N. R did not leave me in the 
lurch ; pour faire bonne bouche came Mrs. Boscawen, and 
so ended the evening. Saturday a summons carried us 
to Whitehall, you were most kindly remembered. 
Yesterday I went solus to the Asylum to hansel our 
equipage, which promises very well. I spent the after- 
noon in Hanover Square. Mr. F. Montagu has had a 
bad cold, and his mother consequently indisposed, but 
both well again. Mr. Fitzherbert was there, and Ham 
and its owners made a bright figure in our conversation. 
This morning we have been to see Mr. West's and Mrs. 
Angelica's 2 paintings, introduced by Mr. Crispin, who I 
like extremely. My partiality leans to my sister painter ; 
she certainly has a great deal of merit, but I like her his- 
tory still better than her portraits. I enclose Mrs. 
Humphrey's receipt, and bear in mind all your com- 
mands. Mrs. Shelley and her bouncing boy come on 
marvellously well; and Miss Kitty has been a true 
nurse ! but this being the tenth day she ventures to leave 
her, and dines with us, I have not seen her since you 
went, but suppose now we shall soon be admitted to 



1 Lady Mary Capel, fourth daughter of William, Earl of Essex, married, 
25th Aug., 1758, Admiral John Forbes, second son of George, 3rd Earl of 
Granard. 

2 Maria Anna Angelica Kaufmann, born 1741. She came to England in 
1766, was patronized by the royal family, and remained here seventeen years, 
married Zucchi, a Venetian painter, and died at Eome in 1807. 



330 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

drink caudle. Mrs. E has gone to see her Kitty, but 
not the lady in the straw. Lord and Lady Stamford 
came to town last night, a good deal fatigued. She 
could have seen me this morning, but I did not know 
it till I was tired with my morning's work, and unwill- 
ing to go out again. All friends make constant in- 
quiries. Mrs. E good and kind to you and me, as 
usual, and is much better than when she first came. 
Some way or other all domestics are bet witched ; my poor 
fatty John is very ill of a pleurisy, and Mrs. E.'s inno- 
cent young man, Thomas, is gone to St. Bartholomew's ! 

I hope you have had the pleasure of seeing our dear 
Lady Willoughby, and that she is well enough to defy 
Buxton. The Duchess says, " I hope Miss Dewes won't 
forget the fire flies if any come in her way." 

Direct your letters to me at the Duchess of Portland's, 
Whitehall. I hope the clavichord and harpsichord are 
well exercised. How we miss your harmonious fingers ! 



Mrs Ddany to tlie Eight Eon. Viscountess Andover. 

T. H. Ct., 28th Feb., 1771. 

Your wishes, my dear Lady Andover, are accomplished, 
and the thaw completed. But we cannot boast of rural 
scenes, springing meadows, and gliding streams ; we 
have been choked with fogs, 'stunned with noise, and 
the streets swimming with puddle water. Times and 
seasons I hope will mend ; at present they are oppres- 
sive ; I bless my years and dulness that very properly 
confine me to my chimney corner, where, however, I am 



OF MRS. DELANY. 331 

happy to receive my friends, and yet to find myself un- 
shackled with the pomps and vanities of this world. 

Last night I had the delight of our dear friend's 
company the greatest part of the evening, and she seemed 
pure well ; much better for a course of airing every day 
for a month past, which as it has agreed so well with 
her, I hope she will pursue. Her Grace charged me 
with her love to your ladyship, and many thanks from 
her and Lady Stamford for your very kind inquiries 
after Lord Stamford, who I hope will be able to perform 
his journey to town this week. 

I must chide you, my dearest Lady Andover, and not 
a little, for the four penny affront you have put on me. I 
should, indeed, be mortified if it was more than a maniere 
de parler. 

I still feel the parting moment with my dear Mrs. 
Port, but have the consolation of hearing she bore her 
journey, and is very well at Welsbourn, as well as 
I suppose she will be till quietly settled at Ham, she 
proposes setting out from "Welsbourn on Monday 
se'night ; they are both impatient to get home, and I 
shall be happy with the thoughts of her being there. 

I have been much vexed about the D e of P. affair. He 
lost his cause yesterday in the house by ten it was 
thought he would have carried it there, though not in 
the House of Lords : it is vexatious to have those we 
are zealous for entangled with ill-judging friends, which 
has certainly been the case. This is quite between our 
selves ; it is a sore subject with a friend of ours ! 

Lady Weymouth still goes about, and is very well. 
I think she must soon be confined now. 

Though so near I very seldom see Dash ; she looks ill 



332 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

and coughs sadly, but has spirits r and strength enough 
for the great world, which, indeed, in her station is un- 
avoidable. 

I had a very painful and pleasing meeting with the 
good Sandfords. They staid a fortnight in town, and we 
were together every day. They are now returned to 
Sandford, and very happily for me who at this time would 
have felt desolate, Mrs. Ravaud is come to console me ; 
she came last week, and is so good as to take what was 
Mrs. Port's room ; and she is a sensible, kind, and pleasing 
companion. It is unreasonable to break into your re- 
tirement, unless I could make my visit more entertain- 
ing ; but what can I say, unless I mingled in the crowd, 
that might furnish me with rich materials for amuse- 
ment, and speculation. 

I am vain enough to think notwithstanding all defects, 
that my dear Lady Andover'will kindly accept the true 
affection, and wishes of her ladyship's 

Most faithful and obedient humble servant, 

M. DELANY. 



27te Hon. Mrs. Bowawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, (1771?). 

I was resolved not to say a word to you, my dear madam, 
till you were easy (I had almost said reasonable) and here 
has been Mr. Bernard Dewes, before I came, (writing 
this note it seems) for which I shall love him as long as 
I live and wish him the best wife that ever was. I am 
going back again and have not a minute's time, some of 
it I spent with a Frenchman with whom I had made an 



OF MRS. DELANY. 333 

assignation (by letter) to tell me all about the diligence 
of Lyons; happily it was waste of his time and mine, 
and I repented having set him a talking, for he would 
tell me that he had been four times in the diligence be- 
tween Lyons and Paris, that la marechaussee attended 
through all woods, commons, &c., and he did not believe 
a syllable of the stories I had told him. Je regainois 
mon proces and agreed to everything advanced, still he 
would give me his reasons and a sketch into the bargain 
of the road from Lyons to Paris tant il-y-a, so that my 
conference which would have been acceptable yesterday 
was very tedious to-day. 

I called in Hanover Square as I came along ; it was too 
early to visit, but my servant tells me that Mrs. Mon- 
tagu sent me her kind compliments, and said she had 
been very ill since she came to town, but was now much 
better. Madam Montagu I have not time to wait upon ! 
I have heard no news but that Lord North's 1 eldest son 
is to marry the very rich Miss Egerton, and that I 
don't believe. 

Adieu, my dear madam. Chaise at the door. 

Best respects attend the Duchess. 



1 Frederick, Lord North, then Prime Minister, was the eldest son of 
Francis, 1st Earl of Guilford. Lord North's eldest son, George- Augustus, 
subsequently 3rd Earl of Guilford, married, in 1785, Lady Maria Hobart, 
daughter of George, 3rd Earl of Buckinghamshire ; and secondly, in 1796, 
Susan, daughter of Thomas Coutts, Esq. 



334 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Delany to the Viscountess Andover. 

T. H. Court, llth April, 1771. 

Nothing so pleasant as complying with a request that 
suits one's inclination and natters one's vanity. My 
dear Lady Andover desired to hear from me as soon as 
her amiable daughter was arrived in London, and here I 
am armed with pen and ink to obey your ladyship's com- 
mands. 

I sent my enquiry after Miss F. Howard yesterday, 
with a charge not to come to me till the violence of hurry 
on her first coming was something abated, and for the 
same reason postpone my paying my respects to her in 
person ; but I had the pleasure of hearing she looked 
and was very well yesterday, from the oratorial mouth 
of Doctor Frampton, accompanied with grateful enco- 
miums on her superlative merits, all which I listened and 
assented to with true satisfaction. 

I am this instant going to Christie's to see the fine 
productions of Staffordshire, which they say are superb, 
at my return I'll finish my letter. 

I have had the pleasure of Mrs. Eavaud's company 
near two months, yet regret her going away this day 
se'night ; for one who loves home so well as I do, (and 
in truth is fit for no other place,) such a companion is a 
great loss. 

Our most dear friend at Whitehall has felt the severity 
of the weather, by frequent returns of the cramp, though, 
I thank God, not to any great degree, and keeps to her 
resolution in spite of wind and weather of airing every 
day, and concludes the evening at Lady Weymouth's, who 
is pure well and her fine group. Lady Stamford looks 
very portly and not as if she would hold out (as long as 



OF MRS. DELANY. 335 

she says) to the end of May. Her spirits have been 
much agitated by Lord Stamford's frequent returns of 
his bilious complaints, but for some days past they think 
him much better. 

I have seen the fine show at Christie's, and am much 
pleased with the neatness and elegance of the work, but 
it bears a price only for those who have superfluous 
money, tho' I had rather game there than at Almacks, and 
it would be more rational; one should have a pretty 
thing for one's money, and be saved the dreadful anxiety 
that attends other gaming, a vice of such a deep dye at 
present, that nothing within my memory comes up to it ! 
the bite is more malignant than that of a mad dog, and 
has all the effects of it. But to turn aside from that dread 
scene, I'll lead your ladyship to the masquerades, one on 
Friday next, and one this day se' night, which with inter- 
ludes for the rest of the week of opera, play, poppet- 
shew and drums, Almacks, and Cornellys^ Time does not 
lag, but changes his hue as fast as the cameleon ; but 
little do they recollect he is a treacherous old fellow, and 
whilst he leads them a gay and merry dance, leads them 
to their awful trial ! Mrs. Port, who has chose the better 
part, is enjoying her sweet home, and seems full as happy 
in settling her household, attending her shrubs and 
groves, and making a very worthy man happy, as any 
fine lady can be at a ball. 

I thank God she is as well as I expect her to be for 
some months; I shall make her very happy in letting 
her know how kindly your ladyship has inquired after 
her. She laments that being in the same county you 
should be so distant, but a good will which with her can 
never be wanting, will overcome all difficulties. 



336 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Most fortunately for your relief, company has put an 
end to my letter. I was in the mood of scribbling, and 
in all moods ever with true affection, 

Your ladyship's most obedient, 

M. DELANY. 



Mrs. Ddany to the Viscountess Andover. 

Bulstrode, 3rd May, 1771. 

My dear Lady Andover would not have had so long 
a reprieve from my letters had I not been very much 
hurried ever since I had the honour and pleasure of her 
ladyship's last ; and to give my letter a good relish I 
must first name the most pleasing subject your dear and 
amiable daughter, who has been so good as to call on 
me very often ; it made me happy to see her and to talk 
of my dear friend. 

I can assure you she looked very well, and gives 
pleasure wherever she goes, which must make you both 
amends for this separation. Ah, why are you not here 
too? I am astonished, after the accounts Miss F. H. 
has given me of the overflowings and inundations at 
Elford, how you have all escaped violent colds, and I 
suppose you are as sensible of our December weather 
(though in the midst of May almost) as we are here, and 
go about with three tier of cloaks ! All has not entirely 
defended the Duchess of Portland from her cramps and 
rheumatics ; but " nothing can cool her love to her dear 
Lady Andover," (this she bids me say,) I thank God 
on the whole she is pretty well, and I hope will find so 
much refreshment from the enjoyment of this place as 



OP MRS. DEL ANY. 337 

to enable her to bear with tolerable good spirits Lady 
Stamford's demand upon her, which I suppose may be 
about a fortnight hence. 

This ^tter was begun last winter, that is three days 
ago, and now the sun shines, the birds sing, the lambs 
bleat, and the face of the country is entirely changed, of 
which I hope your ladyship has your share, and will 
soon see the rosebuds of your improvements on the Hill. 

Lady Jerningham came on Wednesday, and went 
away on Friday ; the weather so perverse she could see 
nothing but out of the window; however the within 
doors is so delightful, and so filled with amusement that 
for so short a time it was fully sufficient; she is an 
amiable and agreeable woman. To-night or to-morrow we 
shall be illuminated by the two celebrated philosophers 
Mr. Pennant and Mr. Lightfoot, and virtfi will be in its 
full glory. I shall glean a little in the harvest field, not 
being sufficiently qualified for a reaper, and on Friday 
the Archbishop of York and his family are expected for 
a few days. And now I presume I must give some 
account of our works : hitherto the time has been spent 
in settling what is to be done, and in hunting high and 
low for works of last year, so carefully deposited that 
they are not to be found at all, and the house rings witli 
lamentations. Only one day have we been able to go 
out in the chaise, and nothing but despair of never 
having better weather could have encouraged our going 
out, as it rained incessantly the whole time. 

As for news I know none, and never read the news- 
papers. I am tired of the world and its ways, though a 
few individuals pull very hard, and they make me loth to 
quit my hold ! I hope your little juvenile companion is as 

PART II. VOL. I. Z 



338 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

well, as I am sure she is delightful, and that your solitude 
meets with no alloy but the absence of your friends, among 
which number accept of the sincere regrets and most 
affectionate wishes of, 

Dear madam, your ladyship's most 

Faithful and obedient humble servant, 

M. DELANT. 

Mrs. Port is pretty well. I propose going to her the 
1st of August, or thereabouts. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscaiuen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, May 7th, 1771. 

I have had a strong inclination to write to you to-day, 
my dear madam, but I wanted a pretence, (lest you 
should think you could never be safe from my visits, 
town or country) ; but now that the post is come in I 
have no longer any scruple car le moyen to delay ac- 
knowledging your very kind and friendly congratulation. 
Certainly I ought to thank you for it by the return of 
the post, and assure you that I much wish you (in due 
season) la pareille that is an agreeable surprise of a fine 
boy ; for if you could, as I did, avoid the anxious hour 
of his arrival, I think ce ne seroit que mieux. Lady 
Stamford looks most perfectly well. I had the honour 
to take a very pleasant walk with her ladyship to-day 
at Mrs. Pitt's, which is in great beauty, being forwarder 
by a fortnight I think than any place I have seen. I 
assure you Lady Stamford walked stoutly a little way, 



OF MRS. DELANY. 339 

though she was too prudent to make the grand tour. 
Lady Edgcumbe carried me thither ; we had also Lady 
Juliana Penn, Mrs. Carter, and Mrs. Pitt. La dame du 
chateau was most agreeable as usual. Her incomparable 
chimney -board, 1 which Lady Stamford had never before 
seen, was admired beyond what it becomes you to hear. 
Yesterday, my dear madam, I heard a nightingale, who 
(if he be a gossip) visits the nightingales at Bulstrode, 
for I was at Cowley, where the gardens are charming, 
but every single and particular leaf is to be paid for, I 
think, by the purchaser. Else how can they reckon 
4,000 for the lease, and 63 a-year ; as the number of 
acres is short of twenty? The house very indifferent, 
though good enough for me. The furniture only some 
old linen washed very dean ! I cast a longing look 
towards Bulstrodle, and had a mind to fancy I saw some 
one of its tall trees. I returned to dinner. The Duchess 
of Beaufort is in a good way I hope, though to-day is 
not a very good day, being the 4th. 2 Lord Halifax 3 has 
a violent yellow jaundice. The Duchess of Northum- 
berland 4 is said to be very ill, and Lady Eockingham 5 
not likely to recover. This very warm day will be good 



1 This " chimney-board " at Mrs. Pitts was evidently one of the many 
ingenious works of Mrs. Delany, who was famous for the chimney-boards 
she made to cover ugly mantel-pieces. They were generally figures (often 
Etruscan) and arabesques cut out in coloured paper and laid on a black 
ground. 

2 Lord Norbonne-Berkeley-Henry Somerset, fourth son of Henry, 5th Duke 
of Beaufort, was born May 4th, 1771. 

3 George Montagu, 2nd and last Earl of Halifax, died in 1771. 

4 Anne, daughter of John Stuart, Earl of Bute, and first wife of Hugh, 
2nd Duke of Northumberland. 

5 Mary, daughter and heir of Thomas Bright, of Badsworth, Yorkshire, Esq., 
and wife of Thomas Watson Weutworth, 2nd Marquis of Rockingham. 

z 2 



340 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

for your dear Duchess. I was very thankful for her 
Grace's kind letter, and am very earnest in my wishes 
for her perfect health. Can I do anything about your 
house ? If you will command me, I shall be zealous to 
show that I am dear Mrs. Delany's most 

Obedient servant, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 

Lord Chatham's cause l is decided in his favour. 
The King goes to the House to-morrow, whereas the 
mob expect him on Thursday. 2 



1 This " cause" related to the will of Sir William Pynsent, of Burton 
Pynsent, Bart., a Whig politician of Queen Anne's time, who retired from 
public life when the Tories gained ascendancy in her councils, and having 
spent fifty years in the country died, in 1765, without children, and be- 
queathed various legacies to his relations, leaving Mr. Pitt (Earl of Chat- 
ham) his residuary legatee. He had never seen Mr. Pitt, and was influenced 
solely by political admiration. The will was disputed by Sir William's 
nearest kinsmen, and after long litigation the Court of Chancery, in April, 
1771, decided on establishing the validity of the will, and Lord Chat- 
ham became possessed of the property to the value of nearly three thousand 
a-year. 

2 " The mob" In March, 1771, Walpole wrote, "The horizon is overcast 
again, already the wind is got to the north-east, and by Wilkes. The House 
of Commons and the City of London are at open war. The City declares no 
man shall be apprehended, contrary to law, within their jurisdiction. The 
printers are seized ; Wilkes (as sitting Alderman) releases'oue, the Lord Mayor, 
Wilkes, and another Alderman deliver another, and commit the messenger of 
the House of Commons to prison. The House summons the Lord Mayor to 
appear ; he is laid up with the gout, gets out of bed and goes on Monday ; 
thousands of handbills invite the mob to escort him, but not a hundred attend. 
Wilkes is summoned, writes a refusal to the Speaker unless admitted to his 
seat. The Speaker will not receive his letter, nor the House hear it, and again 
order him to attend, &c., &c. This is the argument I don't tell you the 
denouement ; I wish it may not be necessary to call it the catastrophe, methiuks 
there are plenty of combustibles." On the 9th of May, he says that the 
mob had demolished all the windows, of Sir Fletcher Norton's (the Speaker) 
house, and a much greater mob assaulted Lord North's, with the threat of pull- 
ing it down. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 341 

Mrs. Delany to the Viscountess Andover* 

Bulstrode, 3rd June, 1771. 

Endless interruptions have robbed me of the satisfac- 
tion of sooner acknowledging my dearest Lady Andover's 
letter of the 12th May, a date would make me blush 
had it not' been more my misfortune than fault to have 
delayed my grateful thanks so long. 

I suppose your ladyship cannot be ignorant of so im- 
portant a transaction as the present possessor of the 
" little Thatch " having purchased some old walls in St. 
James's Place, in order to remove thither by the end of 
July, and she has put on all her spurs I but such gentry 
as carpenters, bricklayers, &c., &c., are invulnerable, and 
I fear my spurs will not avail ; but in order to be ready 
(should they perform articles), before I came out of town 
I took down all my books, all my china, packed them in 
order for removing, that I might come to this paradise 
with my friend, and have no unnecessary calls to Lon- 
don. On Friday we came, and the Monday following 
all the Archbishop of York's * family, (seven in number,) 
and Dr. Kay. In order to save her Grace's spirits and 
lungs, my poor assistance was required, and the de- 
mand so great that truly I had not time for writing. 
Does this plead for me ? If not, I throw myself on your 
ladyship's mercy. Never did Bulstrode appear in higher 
beauty, and now we are alone, I hope a quiet enjoyment 
of the place will mend our most amiable friend's health 



1 The Hon. Eobert Hay Drummond, second son of George Henry, 7th Earl 
of Kinnoul, was Archbishop of York from 1761 to 1776. He married, in 1748, 
Henrietta, daughter of Peter Auriol, Esq. 



342 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

and spirits, though 011 the whole I think I can assure 
you she is pretty well. 

I am not quite easy about my dear Mrs. Port. She 
has. been so persecuted with the tooth-ache and a feverish 
disorder attending it, as to give her bad nights, and I 
fear will weaken her at a time when her best strength 
and spirits may be wanting. The first design was for 
her to lie-in in London, but as she must then have come 
to town in the hottest part of the year, and other pru- 
dential reasons have now changed that purpose, and I 
propose to be with her the beginning of August. I sup- 
pose she will be confined about the middle or end of 
September. Lady Cowper proposes making her a visit 
the end of this month, and staying a month with her. 
I am sure my dear Mary will be most happy to see your 
ladyship and your amiable daughter at Ham when most 
convenient to you ; but you will be so good as to give 
her notice, as it would mortify her to the last degree to 
lose an hour of your company. They have a comfortable 
house, though not a magnificent one, and can never have 
a more pleasing guest than dear Lady Andover, &c. 

The bag was found, and now we are preparing for 
business of various kinds, though no great undertakings ; 
rather reviewing last year's works and enjoying them. 
The Duchess of Portland goes on Friday next to town, 
to Lady Stamford's christening; but I believe I shall 
chuse to repose under the shade of Bulstrode groves, 
preferring the fragrance of the sweet air, the singing of 
the birds, and even the screams of the peacock and 
Guinea fowl, to the dust and cries of London ; for as to 
the enjoyment of her Grace's company there, it is not to 
be purchased, and she designs to return on Sunday even- 



OF MRS. DELANY. 343 

ing. -I hope your ladyship's accounts from Duke Street 
are quite to your satisfaction. I must always remember 
with gratitude my dear Miss F. Howard's kind attention 
to me, in a place where other young heads seem quite 
overset with the sail they carry, but she has a ballast that 
can never fail to keep her steady in all places and on all 
occasions. I am sure you cannot wish more to have her 
than she does to return to you, and that mutual pleasure 
I suppose will soon come to pass. 

Your ladyship must have seen in the newspaper who 
is named to succeed Lord Townsend. It is only in the 
newspaper. I own I have fears about it, as it would affect 
our friend greatly. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, 6th June, 1771. 

As I have not (I fear) much chance of the pleasure to 
see the Duchess of Portland when she comes to town, I 
have a great mind to persuade you, my dear madam, to 
acquaint me how her Grace does, and how you do, and 
what news you have had of your poor friend Mrs. Sand- 
ford. As to the beloved niece, I trust you have none but 
good tidings from her, and that she goes on just as you 
could wish, which I shall be heartily glad to hear. 

I cannot tell you any news from hence. Fanny was at 
the birthday yesterday. "When I asked her after finery, 
she answered "gauze," so that I think the fine ladies 
in general were in ragged .apparel I At night she danced 
a minuet, and had the good luck to have Lord Edward 



344 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Bentinck for her partner. It was particularly so to her, 
as it seems his lordship is a remarkable good dancer, and 
she always says that if her partner dances ill, she dances 
ill too, so that her credit depends upon her partner. 
There were only five couple of country dancers, of which 
she was one, her partner Mr. Poyntz. 1 They danced only 
two dances, all was over soon after eleven, and this 
morning, as you will hear, her Majesty has given us 
another prince ! 2 

You know Lady Augusta Stewart 3 is to marry Lord 
Finlater, 4 and Lady Elizabeth Wyndham 5 Mr. Herbert. 
The death of Lord Strange 6 is much lamented, and must 
indeed be a very great loss to his young family. As to 
his aged parents, they probably lament they have lived 
so long. 

The other night I was at Mrs. Vesey's, where was 
Lord Lyttleton and Dr. Goldsmith, &c. They men- 
tioned an anecdote which I thought extraordinary viz., 
that Mrs. Ra. Lloyd had found in Kensington Palace an 
old box containing letters ; that she had (without much 
examination to be sure) made them a present to Mr. 



1 " Mr. Poyntz" of Midgeham, Berks. 

8 Ernest Augustus, Duke of Cumberland and King of Hanover, born 
June 5, 1771. 

3 Lady Augusta Stuart married Captain Andrew Corbett. She was the 
fourth daughter of John, 3rd Earl of Bute, and grand-daughter of Lady Mary 
Wortley Montagu. 

4 James Ogilvie, 7th Earl of Findlater, married, in 1779, Christina, daughter 
of Count Murray, of Melgum.'^ 

5 Elizabeth, eldest daughter of Charles, Earl of Egremont, married, July 15, 
1771, Henry Herbert, afterwards 1st Earl of Carnarvon. 

8 James Stanley, Lord Strange, eldest son of Edward, llth Earl of Derby, 
and of his wife, Elizabeth, only daughter and heir of Robert Hesketh, of 
Rufford. Lord Strange married, March 17, 1747, Lucy, daughter and coheir 
of Hugh Smith, of Weald Hall, Esses. He died in June, 1771. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 345 

H. "Walpole. However, his M (the right owner) has 
now got them, and they prove to be a series of letters 
from King William to his queen, the most affectionate 
imaginable. I should like to read them, and have a third 
volume for Mr. Walpole's Eoyal and Noble Authors, 
but have no chance, I suppose, since he has given them 
up ! I am going at the earnest request of the Duke of 
Beaufort and my daughter with them to Badminton. I 
purpose (and will indeed, if no accident prevents), return 
hither in a month. I wish I may then find a leisure 
day at Bulstrode to pay my respects to the Duchess, and 
you my dear madam, whom I shall wish to see and to 
preach to, before you set out for Ham. 

Excuse, my dear madam, this abominable scribble, 
performed while my chaise is waiting to carry me to 
Wimbledon to see my friend Sir Sydney and Lady 
Smythe. 1 

I saw Miss Howard on Monday at the christening of 
my grandson, to whom Lord Suffolk is godfather. His 
lordship has been much indisposed a long time, and was 
not able to come out. Adieu, my dear madam. I must 
set out. Present my best respects to the Duchess, and 
believe me faithfully, 

Yours, F. B. 



1 Sir Sydney^-Stafford Smythe, Chief Baron of the Exchequer, of the 
Strangford family, and the son of Rol>ert Smythe, of Bounds, in Kent, and of 
his wife, Dorothy, daughter of Robert, 2nd Earl of Leicester. Sir Sydney- 
Stafford Smythe died in 1777. The name of his wife is not given in Burke'a 
Genealogy. 



316 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The following verses were among Mrs. Delany's papers, and 
as Lord Molyneux was created Earl of Sefton, November 30, 
1771, this party must have taken place about the previous June. 

A PARTY TO RICHMOND. 

To Richmond the folks of the very first mode 

In coaches and chaises and cabriolets rode, 

There was Bouverie and Meynell, 1 and Greville 3 and Crewe, 3 

With Molineux, 4 Melbourn, 5 and husbands a few, 

And Fitzpatrick, 6 and Charles, 7 I could name many more 

But that I am fearful of being a boar. 

As all these fine folks are remarkably witty, 

To lose what they say would methinks be a pitty ; 

So Muse now I charge yon, with faithfulness tell, 

Each word and each phraze that from every tongue fell. 

MBS. MEYNELL. 

L . . d bless me ! I hate and detest this bad weather 
Sure never such folks went to Richmond together ! 
A party is shocking, and an inn's my aversion, 
I can't think why people call this a diversion. 

MB. MEYNELL. 

Oh fye, Mrs. Meynell ! pray don't begin grumbling, 
For to Richmond with beauties 'tis always good jumbling; 



1 Edward Meynell, Esq., of Noith Kilvington, married, in 17G4, Dorothy, daughter of 
William Gary, Esq., of Torr Abbey. 

2 Mrs. Greville was Frances, daughter of James Macartney, Esq., and married I'ulke 
Greville, Esq., son of the Hon. Algernon Greville. Mrs. Greville wrote the Poem entitled 
' A Prayer for Indifference." 

3 Mrs. Crewe. Frances Anne, only daughter of Fulke Greville, Esq., married John 
Crewe, Esq., of Crewe Hall, who was created, in 1806, Baron Crewe. 

* Charles William, 9th Viscount Molyneux, created Earl of Sefton, 30th Nov., 1771. 
He married, 27th Nov. 1768, Isabella, second daughter of William, 2nd Earl of 
Harrington. 

s Sir Peniston Lamb, 1st Viscount Melbourne, married, 13th April, 1769, Elizabeth, 
only daughter of Sir Ralph Milbank. 

6 The Hon Richard Fitz -Patrick, second son of John, 1st Earl of Upper Ossovy. He 
was a General Officer in the Army, Privy Councellor, M.P. for the county of Bedford, 
and Secretary at War for a short tame in 1783, and afterwards in 1806. 

7 " Charles." The Right Hon. Charles James Fox. 



OF MRS. 'DEL ANY. 317 

Itoas taken unhappy this morning at ten, 

But now I protest I'm myself quite again. 

If Miss Jennings were here, that pretty Dear Sweet, 

Like us none could shew four such beauties compleat. 

MR. BOOTHBY. 



C s ! these parties are ill understood, 

A quoi Ion that hatt, and a quoi boil that hood ? 
No object excites to please and to dress, 
And why you're all drawn to four pins I can't guess ; 
As Heaven's my Judge, (were 1 a young beauty,) 
To love and be loved I should think were my duty. 

MONS R . DE GUIGNE. 1 

A pour ya, Monsieur, je vous trouve admirable, 
Vous vous plaigue' a tort, de ces beautes aimables. 
Si elles etoient en France, ma foi je crois bien 
Que nous gouterions mieux leur doux entretien. 

MRS. GrREVILLE. 

What th' Ambassador says, I am sure I approve, 
For the women with us play a sad game in love. 

MR. FITZPATRICK. 

The fault's all their own, would they take my advice, 
I'd teach them to be a little less nice ; 
/ hold for the nymph whose mind brooks no controul 
But casts off all prejudice from her great soul, 
With her let me dance, and then laugh at the fools 
That think we can follow their narrow low rides, 

MR. C. Fox, 

Fitzpatrick, I always think you in the right, 
Let us love every day, let us play every night, 
Let the beauties in fashion our vanities feed, 
For their favours and smiles we no otherwise heed. 
May wise ones in virtuous oblivion go rust, 
But for you and I, Kichard, we'll kick up a dust I 



Monsieur do Guisnes, French Ambassador from 1770 to 1776, 



348 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

LADY MOLINEHX. 

Pray, dear Mrs. Crewe, will you give me a pin, 

For now I perceive we approach to the inn 

And the wind is so high, and my hat's so ill-tyed 

MR. MEYNELL. 
What pitty it was that sweet forehead to hide. 

SIB RALPH PAYNE. 1 

A pitty indeed, and we alt should enjoyn 
To oppose the concealment of charms so devine ; 
To a tyrant of straw we should never give place 
That holds from our view a delectable face. 

LORD MoLiNEtrx. 

That horse seems to me to be swell'd in the heel, 
Come hither, my dear, and see " Maggot " at wheel. 

MB. PBICE. S 

I shall into the kitchen and see what's to eat, 

For methinks with discourse we should mingle some meat. 

SIB RALPH PAYNK. 

I unite in y e thought, Sir, and for our collation 
Pray quickly bespeak the best 8 resocilation ; 
The banquet convivial, dear Price, be your care, 
Whilst I the choice fruits and cool bev'rage prepare. 

MB. CONWAY. 

Do the women want nosegays ? here, waiter, some flowers, 
I'm sure we've been coming a great many hours. 



1 Sir Ralph Payne, K.B., created Baron Lavington in 1795, and died, s.p., in 1807. 

2 " Mr. Price." Query Uvedale Price, of Foxley, Esq. 

3 " Resocilation" " Restoration of strength by refreshment*"-*- Vide Johnson's Dic- 
tionary. 



OF MES. DELANY. 349 

MB. BOOTHBY. 

Now pray let us ask, ladies, what is your scheme ? 

Do you mean to stay here and stuff strawberries and cream f 

Or to go on the water in boats to Vauxhall 

To see y e cascade and hear Badely squall ? 

MES. MEYNELL. 

Oh! pray now I beg we may shiver no more, 

For I promised to-night to go see Lady Gore. 

Let us dine and drink tea, and then set off for town 

Lady Molineux, sure you'll not keep on that gown " 

MB. BOUVEBIE. 
Come, order the coaches and let us away. 

MB. CBEWE. 
What a terrible boar it has been all this day ! 



The Hon. Mrs. JBoscawen to Mrs, Delany. 

Badminton, 24th June, 1771. 

I don't know why I delay writing to my dear Mrs. 
Delany, probably for no other reason than that these green 
retreats, and this domestic society furnish no materials 
for a letter that can possibly be worth her reading. 
Nevertheless I must break silence, else I shall not hear 
from Bulstrode, and I'm sure I interest myself too sin- 
cerely in the health of its noble mistress and her excellent 
friend to choose ignorance on that subject, I do therefore 
beseech you, my dear madam, tell me how the Duchess 



350 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

and you do, though I can tell you nothing from hence, 
but that we are very well and very quiet, which suits me 
much. So far I had wrote this morning, when the bell 
suddenly called me to church St. John Baptist, (far 
otherwise celebrated* among the livery men of London). 
Afterwards the post came in, and I received with great 
pleasure what I did not deserve, your obliging letter, my 
dear madam, for which I return you a thousand thanks ; 
the merit which you seem to claim for not writing to 
me, I will on the contrary allow in the greatest propor- 
tion for being so kind to do it when I had so little right 
or claim to that favour, though much more needed than 
you know of, as I have frequently thought of Bulstrode. 
No post it seems goes out hence to-night, so that this 
dull epistle does not begin its march till to-morrow, yet 
the interval will not supply any subject of discourse. A 
walk, a book, an airing in my chaise, a little work, when 
we are all assembled, are les faits notables of my life. 
My children and grandchildren are well I thank God, so 
that I should be as happy as my heart could wish if I 
had no memory ! but to enjoy present blessings com- 
pletely one must cease to regret those that are lost. 

I purpose to return to London on the 12th or 13th 
July, where I hope to meet you, dear madam. 

Your friend Lady Andover 2 was expected at Charlton, 
but Lord Suffolk's 3 having the gout and being unable at 



1 By feasting. The Merchant Tailors' Patron is St. John the Paptist. 

2 Mary, second daughter of Heneage Finch, Earl of Aylesford, and widow 
of William Howard, Lord Andover, who died of a fall from his carriage 
July 18, 1756. 

s Henry Howard, 12th Earl of Suffolk, and 5th Earl of Berkshire, the only 
son of Lady Andover, born May 16th, 1739. 



OF MRS. DEL AX Y. 331 

present to meet her there, will probably postpone her 
arrival. You talk of visiting your new mansion so soon 
as next week, I wish you may defer it till I come that I 
may have the pleasure to see you ; and I shall think 
myself lucky if the Duchess of Portland makes her short 
visit to Whitehall while I am in town, that I may pay 
my respects to her Grace there, for at Bulstrode it must 
be precarious, through the variety of company and en- 
gagements ; however, if you had a vacant day and would 
give me notice of it, I would fly you say that expression 
suits not certain years, but in some cases 'tis the mind 
that flies, and that activity is occasioned by the warmth 
of the heart, and hence it is that you will "fly " to Ham, 
where I hope your trouble will be overpaid by seeing 
(in due time) a happy mother and a fine babe ; if a brave 
boy well, if a girl like Aunt Delany better. If this be 
not a prophecy, (which I am rather inclined to suppose), 
at least it is a very hearty wish ; accept it, my dear 
madam, and believe me with great truth and respect, 
Your affectionate, humble servant, 

P. BOSCAWEN. 

Both my daughters desire their compliments to you, 
they join me in best respects to the Duchess. 



Mrs. Delany to the Rigid Hon. Viscountess Andover. 

Bulstrode, 28th June, 1771. 

I have longed to write to my dear Lady Andover (and 
much more to hear from her) to wish your ladyship joy of 



352 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

our new Secretary of State, 1 and of his being so well again, 
and hope your amiable daughter's constant authentic ac- 
counts have saved you from the nutter of newspaper 
accounts that never tell truth, and do more public and 
private mischief than almost any publications. I can 
assure your ladyship that our dear friend is well; she 
was a little complaining when she came down first, but 
Lady Weymouth and her four eldest children have 
quite cured her. They came down last Friday, and you 
who know a grandmother's feelings, can tell better than 
I describe the pleasure of such a society. They left us 
on Wednesday evening, much regretted. I have lost a 
pretty little lover (a sad loss at my time of day), who 
told me of my rosy looks, and tapped at my window 
every morning. They are dear children indeed. The 
family talk of going soon to Bushy. Sir William Mus- 
grave 2 came here last night, and the Duchess was sum- 
moned this morning to town by Lord Mansfield on 
business, which I hope will (though it hurries her for 
the present) finish an affair to her satisfaction, that has 
lain upon her spirits a good deal. Take no notice unless 
she mentions it ; it is wttat you are no stranger to. It is 
pity anything should ruffle her excellent mind, and allay 
the rational enjoyments of this charming place, so suited 
to her extensive genius. 



1 The Earl of Suffolk was appointed Secretary of State for the Northern 
Department, 12th June, 1771, in the room of the Earl of Halifax, deceased. 
Lord Suffolk had previously been Keeper of the Privy Seal. 

2 Sir William Musgrave, was one of the Commissioners in the Audit Office, 
and a great collector of portraits. He married Isabel, Countess-Dowager of 
Carlisle and daughter of William, Lord Byron. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 353 

Next week I must take a trip to London to look after 
my workmen, in hopes of being able to remove my fur- 
niture and maids into my new house, where I hope to 
have the honour and happiness of seeing my dear Lady 
Andover next winter, and placing her in as snug a cor- 
ner as at the little Thatch. Do not blast my hopes, I 
entreat you, and rob me of one of the most pleasing 
prospects I have before me. In the mean time I hope 
you will enjoy not only your own health, but that of 
those you love. 

I suppose you will soon remove to Charlton, and I 
shall prepare for Ham. I propose, please God, setting 
out on the 1st of August, and natter myself the Duchess 
of Portland will set out also at that time on a travelling 
scheme. Delighted as I am with the thoughts of seeing 
my dear Mrs. Port, I must feel a pang when separated 
from such a friend as I shall leave behind ; but we must 
take our blessings as they are graciously bestowed and be 
thankful. 

I think to take a little tour of two or three days 
before I go to Ham, and I shall make a short visit to 
my dear friends at Sandford. 

I am, with true respect and affection, 
Dear madam, your ladyship's 

Most faithful and obedient humble servant, 

M. DELANY. 



PART II. VOL. I. 2 A 



351 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



The Doivager- Countess Gower to Mrs. Delany. 

Hot Well, Bristol, 28* July, 71. 

Believing all and everything d r M rs . Delany says, I 
ans r her letter y e very first mom* I had, y* it may 
reach London before she leaves it, to tell her y* I felt 
myself better in health since yesterday morning y" I 
have done for a long time. It is not outward apear- 
ances y* hurt me beyond pity and compassion ; w n y e 
objects unknown y e affect is but momentary, but real 
injurys have quite overcome me ; my natural good spirits 
have long suported me ; but finding, last winter, want 
of ffaith in all y* I employ 'd, and y e difficulties y 1 conse- 
quently ensued, has greatly affected my health. I wish 
these waters may wash away all the crudities my dis- 
apointm ts have created, for various medicines I first try'd 
to no purpose. Nonsense flows here faster y n y e Severn, 
w th out an ebb I believe, but I come in y e way of it only 
while I'm drinking. 

A fresh mark of yo r kindness is yo r direction where 
I may hear sense. M w . Mulineux I have heard of, but 
know her not ; but to think of making an amiable ac- 
quaintance, and at y e same time wishing never to come 
again into her neighbourhood, is so disheartening I 
can't undertake it. Workmen and all sorts of people 
are an everlasting tease. I often wonder how human 
nature can go on thro' y e great world w" little things are 
so perplexing ; but complain not of either y r head or tem- 
per, for I dare say nothing ever deranged either ; I only 
allow y e 2 or 3 hot days w h y e bussell of business might 
discompose 



OF MRS. DELANY. 355 

You now shall have a truce till I have a call to con- 
gratulate ; wishing you a good journey and all y* 
can contribute to hapiness. I sopose y e Dow r D s of 
Portland is to bath in y e sea, by good advice I hope,' 
for 'tis not a thing to play w th . She chuses Weymouth, 
I conclude, for y e sake of y e name. Adieu, d r madam. 

On the 12th Aug., 1771, the Rev. John Dewes wrote, from 
Calwich, a French letter to his brother, Mr. Court Dewes, say- 
ing that his father had returned to Ham, " that Madame Marie 
de Monjaunt" was staying there with Mrs. Port, his brother 
Bernard still at Calwich, and Mr. Granville still indisposed. 
That he and his father, Mr. Dewes, had been very unsuccessful 
in fishing, but that " the adroit fisher, Bernard," had succeeded in 
catching a large trout, as soon as he arrived ! The letter is 
addressed to Mr. Court Dewes, a la Cour de Londres ; a Spa, 
par Liege. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscaiven to Mrs. Delany, at Ham. 

Audley Street, 29th Aug., 1771. 

Alas ; I knew but too soon the affliction of your poor 
friend, my dear madam, and from my heart I pity her. 
God send her the help she wants, and which no mortal 
can administer that submission and resignation which 
alone can preserve to her lovely children their remaining 
parent. 1 Poor soul ! when I think of her delicate frame 
I dread their being orphans, and her sinking under this 
heavy stroke. The account you gave me of her (and for 

1 The Eev. Daniel Sandford succeeded to his paternal estate, at Sandford, 
in Shropshire, on the death of his father in 1769, and died himself in 1771, 
leaving his widow, formerly Sarah Chapone, with four sons Thomas, Daniel, 
John, and William. 



356 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

which I return you a thousand thanks, for I was vastly 
desirous to hear of her), this account is as favourable as 
I could expect, especially that her tears flowed so soon ; 
for I have known when a stupor has remained many 
days and the poor wretch has appeared thunderstruck 
and continued inanimate. She must have been relieved 
by much weeping, and nature overpowered and almost 
sinking, would draw her down, down, as it were, into 
sleep. Would it not be good for her to change the air, 
if she has any friend or relation at a distance to whom 
she could also carry her children ? But perhaps you will 
say " no," as the coming back again to the scene of her 
misery is to revive it. Enfin ! heaven support her ! 
There one must begin and end, all other aids are very 
unequal to distress like this. 

As thinking of it will not relieve it, so I must entreat 
you, my dear madam, to fix as much as possible your 
thoughts to the persons and the place where you are. 
Your dear niece being pure well is indeed an earnest of 
pure good news shortly. So experienced a person being 
with her is another satisfaction and a great one to me, 
for you must know I thought it very likely you would 
frighten each other where no fear was. The first time I 
experienced the pains of child-bearing, I concluded that 
no woman had ever endured the like upon the like occa- 
sion, and that I could not possibly recover it, whereas I 
danced a minuet about my room in ten days, to insult 
my nurse-keeper and set her a scolding for my diver- 
sion! 

Mrs. Mead will assure you, when you are terrified, 
that " all is well," and no more than what she has expe- 
rienced eight times I and this will be a great comfort to 



OF MRS. DELANY. 357 

you and my young friend in her lit de misere, so I 
enjoin and charge you to mind what Mrs. Mead says, 
more than what Mrs. Port screams, for scream she will 
and must. 



The Countess Spencer to Mrs. Port of flam, at llam. 

DEAR MADAM, 

Lady Cowper commissioned me to send you the 
inclosed receipt for children's pap. 1 I am glad of this 
or any opportunity I can have of enquiring after your 
health, and of assuring you that I am, with great regard, 

My dear Madam, 
Your faithful and obedient humble servant, 

G-. SPENCER. 

Brighthelmstone, 
Sept. 5th, 1771. 



From the Duchess of Portland to Mrs. Delany. 

Buxton, Thursday night. Sept. 12th. 

A thousand thanks to my dearest friend for both her 
kind letters. I had nattered myself with hearing our 
dear Mary was well in her bed, and fancy Dr. Ford was 



The Countess Cowper's Receipt for Pap. 

1 Take a white halfpenny-roll, such as are sold at country bakers, piqued at 
each end, and let all the crust be pared off very thin (that is the outward crust 
of all), then put the rest of the roll into a pint of very fine spring-water, which 
must boil till it looks like a jelly, it must then be strained into a China or 
earthen bowl through a lawn sieve. This, if rightly done, will be of the con- 
sistency of a jelly when it is cold ; it is to be taken out in small quantities as 
wanted, to be warmed and mixed with a little milk, and the milk should 
be mixed into each cup-full, when it is warmed, and not into the whole 
quantity. 

PART II. VOL. I. 2 B 



358 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

iii the right. I shall rejoice to hear it is over, and my 
most amiable friend's mind and heart at ease, and hope I 
shall hear as soon as possible. It is so difficult from this 
place to send letters, and as the enclosed came from Ire- 
land I was afraid it might miscarry, and Mistress Had- 
deon has promised it shall be safely delivered : it came 
inclosed to me. 

Dear Lady Stamford came to me on Tuesday and 
staid till to-day. She is vastly well, thank God, and her 
children ; only think how happy it made me ! I have 
bathed four times, which has agreed vastly well with me, 
and if I meet with no interruption in my bathing, I 
shall set out for London on Friday and must be there 
on Saturday. I am infinitely obliged to Mr. and Mrs. 
Port for their kind invitation, but it is impossible this 
year. Lord and Lady Gower l passed by this place in 
their way to Castle Howard. Lady Carlisle 2 is brought 
to bed of a daughter, and both she and the child are per- 
fectly well. How will the dowager like to be second in 
command, which will certainly be the case now the Scotch 
Maggy is gone there. 

I had a letter from our Lady Gower from Bill Hill. 
She thinks herself better if she can escape vexation, but 
alas ! that is not the fate of us mortals to be exempt 
from cares, and it is better for us we should not ! 

The bell will ring in a minute, and I must send this. 
A thousand thanks for the giant throatwort ; it is gone 



1 Granville, 2nd Earl Gower, married, thirdly, 23rd May, 1768, Lady 
Susannah Stewart, daughter of Alexander, 6th Earl of Galloway. 

2 Caroline, second daughter of Granville, Earl Gower, by his second wife 
(Lady Louisa Egerton), married, 22nd March, 1770, Frederick, 5th Earl of 
Carlisle. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 359 

to London with a large cargo from hence. I fancy I 
left the umbilicated lichen at Ham. Will you be so 
good to let me know, for I can't find it, which I am 
very sorry for. My dearest friend, will you be so kind 
to get me some more ? It grows on the rocks in the 
caves. Heaven bless you and all you love. 
Most faithfully and affectionately yours. 

My compliments to Ham. I am sorry to hear Mrs. 
Mead is ill. 

I hope you received my letter I wrote since I came 
here. 



The Eon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Brighton, 20th Sept., 1771. 

Joy to you, my dear madam ! much joy to you and to 
your beloved niece upon the safe and happy arrival of 
another beloved niece, 1 who has nothing to do but grow 
up as like her great and good aunt as ever she can ! This 
is my counsel to her, accompanied with many good 
wishes ; I desire also to make my compliments to her 
papa upon this occasion, and I hope she is as welcome 
to him as if she were a son and heir. I have always 
thought it is much better to begin with a girl. The first 
is generally tant soit peu enfant gate, now it is of much 
less consequence to spoil a girl than a boy, for he being 
armed with power will make his caprices be felt, whereas 



1 Georgina Mary Ann Port, eldest child of John Port, of Ilam, Esq., and 
his wife, Mary, daughter of John Dewes, of Welshourn, Esq., and his wife, 
Ann Granville, was born Sept. 16, 1771. The child, as well as her mother, 
was god-daughter to Lady Georgina Spencer, afterwards Countess Cowper and 
daughter of John Earl Granville. 

2 B2 



360 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

she, being born to obey, will be reduced to submission 
sooner or later. 

I am extremely pleased to find you did not attend the 
lit de inisere, .for indeed, my dear madam, it is an office 
so painful that I dreaded it for you ; however, I shall be 
quite satisfied if you own to me a few days hence (as I 
flatter myself strongly that you will) that notwith- 
standing all her sufferings she is as well as ever she was 
in her life. Amen. Ainsi soit-il. 

I came to this place last Saturday to visit Lady Jane 
Evelyn. 1 The company which resorts every summer is 
pretty well dispersed and the master of the ceremonies 
degraded, nevertheless Fanny gets two balls a week, but 
not always a partner. To night His Royal Highness of 
Cumberland 2 has invited her to a ball that he gives to 
the company. For myself, you may imagine, I have no 
concern in all these matters, and never visit the rooms, 
best pleased to stay at home with my poor sister, 3 whom 
(I would fain hope) is rather recovered from that de- 
gree of dejection she was in when we parted. She rides 
on horseback, which has entirely restored her health. I 
walk sometimes upon the Steyne, which is a public walk 
on the sea shore, gay to all others, to me most melan- 
choly ! When Lady Jane rides out, I take the air on the 
South Downs, which are extremely fine with vast pro- 
spects, not only of the sea as far as the Isle of Wight 



1 Widow of George Raymond Evelyn, Esq., half-brother to Mrs. Boscawen. 
He died, Dec. 23, 1770. 

2 Henry Frederick, fourth son of Frederick Prince of Wales, and brother 
of King George III. He married, Oct. 2nd, 1771, the Hon. Mrs. Horton, 
eldest daughter of Simon, created 1st Earl of Carhampton, and widow of Chris- 
topher Horton, of Catton, Esq. 

3 " Sitter " (in law) Lady Jane Evelyn. 



OF MRS. DEL ANY. 361 

(which one sees distinctly), but also of a variety of land- 
scapes which are charming. Yesterday was the finest 
sunshine imaginable. We went up to a mountain that 
commands the town of Lewes and a rich valley inter- 
spersed with villages, rivers, and cliffs, woods, cornfields, 
harvesting, in short every beauty that can be imagined. 

Mrs. Anne Pitt 1 left this place the day I came, which 
I thought very unlucky. She came to visit Lady Bute, 2 
who was so good to call on me, and carried my daughter 
to the ball-rooms, &c. But she also is now gone. 

Adieu, my dearest madam ; health and happiness 
attend you and yours ! 

I have just discovered that Fanny intended to write 
her own congratulations to her friend on this occasion, 
but I assured her I would not convey the epistle, as I 
knew you would not suffer the lady in the straw either 
to read or write. Accept therefore, and present to her 
my daughter's most hearty and friendly congratulations, 
and believe me, my dear madam, 

Ever faithful 7 yours 
F. B. 

I am sorry the D e of Portland has lost his new- 
born son, but I return you a thousand thanks for the 
good news you told me of your dear Duchess' health, 
which I hope continues. Be pleased to direct to Aud. 
Street, for I am going to Baron Smythe's, but I have a 
servant at home who forwards my letters. 



1 Sister of the great Earl of Chatham. She was Maid of Honour to Queen 
Caroline, and died, unmarried, in 1781. 

2 Only daughter of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, and wife of John, 3rd 
Earl of Bute. 



362 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

I called at your house the day before I came out of 
town, but could not get in ; the players were gone to 
dinner. 

The Dowager- Countess Gower to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill, 17 Ocf ., 1771. 

I have recover'd my health, but it is no small draw back 
to hear that those I wish everything that is good have 
their sufferings ; and am sensible you must have been 
greatly affected under yo T apprehensions for Mrs. Port. 
I hope her disorder is perfectly gone off; and as it was 
no uncomon one in her circumstances, so it won't affect 
her constitution. I beg my complim 13 to her and Mr. 
Port. Tho' y 8 alarm may have been w* one may call 
a fiery tryal, on reflection it carries w th it y e pleasing dis- 
covery of Mr. Granville's real affection, w ch from y e natural 
disposition of y e man (if all went smooth] might have laid 
dormant ; this to d r M rs . Delany, who wishes every one 
to be w 1 they ought to be, must be a comfort. I beg my 
respects to him, as in gratitude bound, having reced 
civillities from him ; sorry to hear he wants health. 
Beport says Governor Littleton is going to be maried 
to Adm 1 Boscawen's daughter, but of this you may 
know more than I. L y Albemarle (who is w tu me) 
thinks 'tis only report, because Ad 1 Keppel, 2 who is 

1 William Henry Lyttleton, Governor of South Carolina in 1755, and of 
Jamaica in 1760, was Minister Plenipotentiary to the Portuguese Court in 
1764, created Barou Westcote in 1766, and Lord Lyttleton in 1794. He 
married, in 1761, Mary, daughter and coheir of James Macartney, Esq., of 
Longford, Ireland. He married, secondly, 1774, Caroline, d. of John Bris- 
tow, Esq. 

s Augustus, second son of William-Anne, 2nd Earl of Albemarle, was, for 
his eminent naval services, created Viscount Keppel, which honour died with 
him in 1786. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 363 

a friend of M rs . Bos : knows not of it. I have nothing 
pleasing or amusing to tell you ; y e world is filled w th 
wrong heads, and worse hearts; y e more one lets 'em 
lye in oblivion y e better ; mine will never be in y* state 
to you till I'm no more. Adieu. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

Sudbury, Thursday, 11 o'clock. Oct., 1771. 

Here begins my journal. To this place we came at 
half hour past ten ; found Mr. Davenport and his horse 
ready to receive us at Ashbourne, and hope the mule 1 
was not the worse for its heavy load. Could I have 
attended to the beauties en passant between dear, sweet 
Ham and this place, I should present my dearest Mary 
with such a mixture of pastoral delights as would have 
served a Claude or a Shenstone for their whole lives ; 
but I felt a tender string pulling all the way, and my 
mind could dwell on nothing but what I had enjoyed. 
However great as my regret was, I overflowed with 
thankfulness to that good Providence who had changed 
the sad apprehensions that for some time clouded the 
fair scenes at Ham, and turned our heaviness into joy ! 
And now not a word more of regrets or acknowledgments, 
&c. &c. ; the sympathizing heart of a friend can better 
explain the affectionate and grateful sentiments of the 
heart than the ablest pen ; and mine I am sure would 
fall far short of what I feel. 

My companions seemed to partake of what I felt : 



1 It was an old habit at Ham and Calwich always to have a mule in har- 
ness to convey baggage. 



364 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Smith was silent half an hour, and Tony hung his wings ! 
at last the goodness of Mr. and Mrs. Port, and the inex- 
pressible charms of Mary Ann broke forth, and T was 
all attention, not able to contradict or join in the 
eulogium. I leave you to guess why ? Smith with her 
duty desires me to inform you that Betty N. 1 has a 
very pretty voice, and begs you will make her sing 

"Wily, or 

I have had a very good second breakfast, and think 
now with the help of a little plum-cake I shall hold 
out till dinner. What a lovely day ! I grudged myself, 
as I have robbed you of an opportunity of enjoying it 
abroad ; but I fancy Mr. P. has coaxed you out for 
a little walk in the sun on the dry gravel before 
the house; " Come, my love, 'twill do thee good; wrap 
yourself very warm, put on your clogs, and A. D. will 
have nothing to say against it." Perhaps the dar- 
ling babe 2 has attended you ? Mr. Marsh sees the 
parade from the vicarage door, and comes to inquire 
after the family piece ! on all occasions he is a desirable 
acquisition, though I think him but an unreasonable 
sort of a man to take upon him so many perfections, 
from gracing the pulpit to rocking the cradle ; notwith- 
standing this substantial objection pray assure him I am 
his sincere friend and well-wisher at all times, except at 
the cribbage-table, and there, indeed, when he can secure 
such an adroit partner to play the deuce for him so 

1 " Betty N." It was considered essential, in the last century, that nurses 
should be able to sing to the children they nursed. 

2 At different periods the " babe " here alluded to was called Mary, 
Mary- Ann, and Georgina, according to the feeling, 1 of the different members of 
the family towards those after whom she was christened. Georgina being 
Lady Cowper's name, Mary, Mrs. Delany's, and Ann, Mrs. Dewes's. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 365 

cleverly, he need not care whether I am his friend or 
foe. 

Elford, 8 o'clock. 

I got here a little before three ; the road very good 
all the way, but longer than I thought. I wish it may 
not be too far for the horses ; the easy chaise and excel- 
lent coachman, with fine weather and such roads, have 
made the journey as little fatiguing as possible ; and I ate 
a very hearty dinner, and find myself very well. Lady 
Andover very kind, and glad to see me ; many inquiries 
from her and Miss F. Howard after you, lamenting you 
should both be in the same county and not yet met ; hope 
for better things another year. Lady Maria much 
grown, and a fine girl, though not handsome. She sends 
her compliments to " Miss Port," and the enclosed 
flowerpot towards her collection, which her grand- 
mamma has just cut out, for Lady Andover is employed 
in the same manner as A. D. 1 for her little grandchild. 
My blessing to that sweet babe ! I am to have Lady 
Andover's chaise to Tamworth, and from thence go post. 
Lady Donegal just sent a note of compliments to me, 
and to inquire particularly after you. 

I want to send Anthony to bed, as he sets out early, 
so can say no more to the triumvirate at Ham but 
adieu. 



1 " Same manner as A. D." Mrs. Delany made a book of very stiff dark 
blue paper, of a kind not now known, on each leaf of which she pasted groups 
of figures, houses, animals and trees, cut out in white paper in the most beau- 
tiful manner. The lines in the buildings, or the folds of drapery, being cut so 
as to let the dark ground show through and mark the outline. There was in 
this book a figure of herself nursing the infant, with a table covered with 
cups and saucers before her. This book was in perfect preservation till within 
the last eleven years, but has unaccountably disappeared. 



306 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

I long to hear of you all though but so lately come 
from you. How swiftly time flies when with those we 
love ! and how he lags in absence ! I have it at the 
tip of my pen to say something about your dear P., but 
I find it almost as difficult to indulge myself on that 
subject as on that of yourself. How unaccountable are 
the sensations of very tender attachments ! My love to 
Calwich. 

(Note in Mrs. Port's handwriting.) 

" Mrs. Delany, aged seventy-one, her first letter to her niece 
Mary Port after having spent between two and three months 
with her at Ham." 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ilam. 

Welsbourn, 26th Oct., 1771. 

I left Elford yesterday morning at seven, had Lady 
Andover's chaise as far as Tarn worth, and there took a 
post chaise to Meriden, where I breakfasted at eleven ; 
the road from Tamworth to Coleshill very indifferent ; 
got to Warwick about two and there dined, as I thought 
I should be rather in a flutter on first coming here, and 
come at a very awkward time for dinner ; no accident or 
fright all the way, and I thank God found your father 
and brothers well. Mr. Pewes looks letter and better, 
seems very hearty and in good spirits. Many inquiries 
after, and much rejoicing at the good account I gave of 
Ilam. An absolute misunderstanding of Mr. Port's 
account of my brother prevented their attendance at the 
Christening. I have as yet had but little time for any 



OF MRS. DELANY. 367 

conversation but about my dear Mary, and no subject 
so pleasing. Mrs. Mead was sent to, to drink tea with 
us (by the by I got here at five), and came alone ; she 
looks, and is, very well. A thousand kind questions, 
but I have postponed particular conversations to a tete-a- 
tete, and am going this morning, as it is fair, to make 
her a visit for that purpose. I slept pretty well, my 
waking hours made pleasant by recollecting the many 
kindnesses of the dear friends I had left behind. But 
how can I express the vacancy I am sensible of in this 
house ? Where is my sweet Mary with her cheerful spark- 
ling countenance, bringing me nosegays and bunches of 
lavender ? Where ? why, where she should be blessing 
and blest in an earthly paradise, and acquitting herself of 
such duties as will not only make her happy here but 
hereafter ! I have a volley of kind compliments and 
good wishes to present to Ham, so pray take them 
among you, for I have not time to particularise. Mrs. 
Vernour and all the neighbours very well. Lady Wil~ 
loughby made Mrs. Mead a visit yesterday morning ; 
quite happy to hear you are so well recovered. The 
two eldest boys are at school. The Mordaunts all 
gathered together at Walton, Sir Charles declining, but 
Miss Mary as usual. 

The time flew fast at Elford, much pressed to stay, 
but 'twas resolved. I was there obliged to give an account 
of Mary Anns life and conversation, and I own I did 
give a little hint of her coquetting with Mr. March and 
of her smiling with the least encouragement ! Miss F. 
H d has sent the enclosed cypher which she cut out 
the night I was there to paste on the outside of her book. 

Mr. Lucy broke off the thread of my discourse, by an 



368 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

hour's visit, seems very well, and said what you may 
suppose on the occasion. As soon as he went I took Court 
under the arm and trotted away to Nanny's ; found her 
and Johnny very well and in a very comfortable way ; 
Smith was with her and my time short, so I left them 
to chatter out their chatter, and went on to Mrs. Mead ; 
staid an hour with her, and you may guess who we 
talked about. 

The Meads drink tea here this evening. Hope the 
chaise, the horses, the coachman, and the housekeeper, all 
returned in due season and not the worse for the expe- 
dition, and that this letter will come to you on Monday 
as I know by myself you will wish to hear soon, a satis- 
faction I can't enjoy till at Bath. I have not time or 
room to say a thousand things that crowd into my head, 
my dearest Mary, but surely it is unnecessary to say if 
I could how tenderly and affectionately I am 

Your own M. D. 

Can you send me the receipt of the ointment and 
lotion ? 

My affectionate compliments to your dear P. 

My pen may sometimes omit what I wish to say but 
my sincere regard will ever be the same. 

Mr. Dewes sends his blessing and thanks for your 
letter. He says the letters that come from Derby come 
directly ; he thinks you might speak to Mrs. Davenport 
to take care your letters come always that way. 



OF MES. DELANY. 369 

The Eon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, 8th Nov., 1771. 

MY DEAR MADAM, 

I went yesterday morning to your house to 
inquire whether you were arrived at Bulstrode " the 
haven where you would be." The maid told me her last 
advices were from Bath ; but in the evening I had the 
satisfaction to hear from the Duchess herself, that you 
were safe arrived, which I am very glad of, as I know 
how much pleasure it gives her Grace, and as I think no 
cordial but her company is sufficient to revive your 
spirits after the depression they suffered at Bath. 

Your house here is not sweet enough for you (in my 
opinion), nor am I so selfish as to wish you to come. 

When I sat down to write to you, I meant not only 
to acknowledge the favour of your last letter, and to 
present my thanks to the Duchess for her very kind one 
received yesterday, but also to have prated about the 
extraordinary news of the times, &c. &c. ; but mark the 
troubles of this morning announced within one short 
hour : first, a messenger from my brother's house, Mr. 
Evelyn's l in Kent, to announce to me the death of his 
eldest child, a fine girl of nine years old, whom I left in 
perfect health a fortnight ago. She was soon after seized 
with a fever with little hope of recovery, so that I have 
indeed expected this sad news these two days. I am 
heartily sorry for it : but what I certainly did not expect 
was a messenger from my sister Frederick 2 to beg I will 

1 The brother of Mrs. Boscawen, who lived at St. Clere, in Kent. 

2 Lucy, eldest daughter of Hugh Boscawen, 1st Viscount Falmouth, 
married Sir Charles Frederick, K.B. She was the sister of Hugh, the 2nd 
Viscount, and of Admiral Boscawen, and sister-in-law of Mrs. Boscawen. 



370 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

come to her and Sir Charles at the Tower presently, their 
eldest daughter having escaped last night, and gone 
away (attended by her maid) with Captain Prescot to be 
married ! He is son, it seems, to a rich man who bought 
Theobald's Park of the Duke of Portland, but youngest 
son, and at all events the elopement of a daughter is 
such an outrageous act of disobedience, that one feels 
greatly for the parents to whom so severe a misfortune 
happens. It was but last night I had a message to say 
Sir Charles, Lady Frederick, and Miss Frederick (the 
person in question) would dine with me here to-day. I 
expected them every moment, when their messenger 
came to entreat me to come to them ! I am going, 
much disturbed with all these calamities. As I had 
began to write to you (little dreaming what my letter 
would be composed of) I will dispatch this incoherent 
epistle. I know you won't speak of Miss Frederick's 
marriage except to the Duchess, till it is more publicly 
known. My best respects wait on her Grace, and I am 
ever, my dear madam, 

Your most faithful and affectionate servant, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 

I shall hope to hear of your health and of the Duchess's, 
when you are at leisure. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port of Ham, at Calwich. 

Bulstrode, 19th Nov., 1771. 

I have this moment received my dear Mary's letter 
from Calwich, and happy to think you and the little 



OF MKS. DELANY. 371 

M. A. were so happily situated during Mr. Port's 
absence. Your letter would have been still more 
welcome could you have told me my brother was better 
than when I left him. Though I am always glad to 
receive a letter from him, as long as you can give me an 
account of him I shall not expect to hear from his own 
hand. I calculate by your last letter this will salute 
you at Calwich. I have indeed a very good idea of the 
delight you had in hearing the sweet clavichord, contem- 
plating the moon, and watching your little engaging infant. 
What a contrast to the ways of (some) of our fine ladies 
in the grande monde ! who live in the midst of discord, 
inattentive to every object of real beauty, and no less so 
to every duty of life ; too many such abound : but I do 
not mean this as a general reflection, believing (indeed 
knowing) there really are several exceptions to be made. 
I cannot tell you how busy we have been in examining 
the varieties of stalactites, selenites, ludus helmontii, 
&c. &c. Much learning I have heard, some of which I 
hope I have retained ; the Duchess of Portland has fine 
acquisitions of pictures, sparrs, minerals, &c., which have 
enriched her dressing-room and cabinets. She desires 
her kind compliments to Mr. Granville and her spinning 
mistress,and bids me enclose the remains of her lock of 
wool, to show you how near she spins it off, and makes 
no waste of ends, all which she hopes you will approve 
of. In the midst of her philosophical studies she used 
to start up and go to her wheel for a quarter of an hour's 
relaxation, and intends that spinning shall be one of her 
employments, and chief amusements when she goes to 
town ; her last wheel and reel stand in the anti-chamber 
to her great dressing-room. I believe I wrote you word 



372 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

that the book published of George's Land (or Otahitee) 
was not by Mr. Banks and Dr. Solander's direction, but 
they are preparing an account of their voyage ; l but the 
Natural History will be a work by itself, entirely at the 
expense of Mr. Banks, for which he has laid by ten thou- 
sand pound. He has already the drawings of everything 
(birds, beasts, plants, and views) that were remarkable ; 
the work to be set in order, that is, the history written, by 
Mr. Hawksworth, 2 under the inspection of Mr. Banks 
and Dr. Solander ; 3 it will hardly come out in my time, 
as it will consist of at least fourteen volumes in folio. 
As this was private talk, perhaps it should not be men- 
tioned in general. Our little friend, Mr. Lightfoot, 
made no small figure in the group, and always desires 
his compliments to you ; they all went away last 
Saturday. Mr. Lightfoot comes again to-morrow, when 
we shall con over the lesson of last week by a re-inspec- 
tion, which will enable me to set my own humble 
collection in order. Among the Duchess's acquisitions 
I forgot to mention china, of which she has added to 
her closet some exquisite pieces (about fifty) lately 

1 Sir Joseph Banks, Bart., published, in 1772, a Journal of a Voyage 
Round the World, in the years 1768, 69, 70 and 71, in His Majesty's ship, 
r< Endeavour." 

2 Dr. John Hawkesworth, born in 1715, the son of a watchmaker, to which 
trade he was first apprenticed. He wrote the " Adventurer," and " Voyages 
to the South Seas." In May, 1773, Walpole says, " At present our ears 
listen and our eyes are expecting East Indian affairs, and Mr. Banks's voyage, 
for which Dr. Hawkesworth has received tfavance one thousand pounds from 
the voyager, and six thousand from the booksellers, Strahan and Co." Dr. 
Hawkesworth died in 1773. 

8 Dr. Daniel Charles Solander, the eminent Swedish naturalist who accom- 
panied Captain Cook and Sir Joseph Banks in a voyage round the world, in 
1768. He became an Assistant Librarian of the British Museum in 1773, 
and died in 1782. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 373 

brought from Holland, all the finest blue and white 
Japan, and different patterns from any she ever had. 
We are now by ourselves, and make use of the fine 
weather abroad. I wish I could send you any news to 
divert you ; the newspapers tell more than all. 

The Princess of "W. is certainly in a bad state of 
health, and our cousin, the Bed C W n is very 
doleful, and it will be a great loss to her, which I am 
sorry for. Notwithstanding the newspapers bestowing 
Lord Villiers on Lady H. Stanhope, he is certainly to 
be married to Lady Gertrude Conway, and he will make 
her a rock of diamonds ; he has been confined with a boil, 
which has delayed the wedding, but his mistress attends 
his couch every day. I have just 'heard from Bath, our 
poor Mrs. Sandford is to be distressed by everything ; 
she has met with an inhuman imposing landlady, that 
would have quite overwhelmed her had it not been for 
Mrs. Eavaud and Mr. Ditcher, who have fought her 
battles, and I hope will get her lodged in a better place ! 
The house she was in hopes of getting in B. B. cannot 
be had under a lease of three years, so she has taken a 
lodging in Brock Street for one month, and in that time 
hopes she may be able to accommodate herself better. 
My account has been from Mrs. Eavaud, as she has not 
been well enough to write herself. I am so far from 
thinking the Bishop of Litchfield's letter a refusal, 
that I have thanked him for the hopes he has given me 
for my nephew, when he can conveniently prefer him. 
Tony chatters and whistles a merveille, and puts all the 
little feathered foreigners out of countenance ! I hear a 
great deal of the magnificence and elegance of the 
Pantheon in Oxford Road, which is now finishing with 

PART n. VOL. i. 2 



374 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

all expedition, 1 and, I fear, not to be seen till encumbered 
with company, so I have no chance of seeing it, as an 
army with banners would not be more formidable to me ; 
though the expense will be prodigious, 'tis thought it 
will answer ; one good arises from it, which is the em- 
ployment of so many workmen, and that the money 
circulates at home. I suppose Almack's and Soho 2 must 
hide their diminished heads. Apropos, it is said, that all 
the fine ladies that have gone astray are to go to a 
monastery abroad, and to turn Magdalenes ! They are 
not, I fear, penitent enough to be received by our asylum, 
though they would be very acceptable to the Hunting- 
don society, and just proper objects for their documents ! 
Pray don't forget the spinning-wheel you promised to 
lend me. I have got the flax from Anne ; tell me if it 
is bran or oatmeal and water that I am to wet my fingers 
with, and if boiled or cold water to be put to it ? 

20th. We took a tour yesterday to look at the planta- 
tions on the common, which thrive and have a very good 
effect; ended with the Cave, where the Duchess has 
directed a plantation of some trees on the right hand, 
which will be a great improvement. We also fixed upon 
a place in the Cave for the Ham fossils, which are much 
admired, especially the great rock which is covered with 
coral, scientifically called Madrepores. I hope soon to 



1 The Pantheon Theatre and public promenade, in Oxford Road, was opened 
for the first time in January, 1772. This building \vas burnt down, Jan. 14th, 
1792. 

8 In Carlisle House, on the east side corner of Sutton Street, Soho Square, 
were given (1763 to 1772) a series of balls, concerts, and masquerades, then 
said to be "unparalleled in the annals of public fashion," presided over by 
Mrs. Comelys, who, Walpole mentions, enlarged the house, and "made it a 
fairy palace." 



OF MRS. DELANY. 375 

liear Mr. Port has accomplished his intended work of a 
way for the chaise to come to the door. We talk a great 
deal of the beauties of Calwich and Ham, nor are their 
owners forgot. 

I don't find, on the whole, that Buxton agreed with 
the Duchess of Portland as well as I was in hopes it had 
done ; she thinks she received more benefit from her 
journeys and the air of the sea than from bathing. 

Adieu. 



T!ie Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, 21st Nov., 1771. 

It was vastly kind in you, my dear madam, to refresh 
my imagination with a description of your repose and 
happiness at Bulstrode, after all the toils and turmoils 
of your perverse workmen, and your remu menage. 
These two words I am persuaded we, English, have 
made into the uncouth word rummage, and I never 
would have my dear Mrs. Delany employed in " rum- 
maging." It is wasting her she was designed for far 
other purposes ! The repeated petitions I receive from 
Badminton are not to be resisted ; and, having got my 
boy home from Winchester, I think we shall all set out 
westward by the end of the month or the beginning of 
the next. The Duke of Beaufort has been ill of a slight 
fever, but, I thank God, is now recovered, yet not so as 
to be able hitherto to come up to London to kiss His 
Majesty's hands, who has been pleased to appoint him 
Lord- Lieutenant and Gustos Eot. of the county of 
Monmouth, to the great satisfaction of his Grace who 

2 c 2 



376 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

has long wished for these honours, which it seems every 
head of his family enjoyed, except only those who did 
not go to Court, and who consequently could have nc 
favours from the monarch whom they could hardly be 
said to acknowledge; but as his Grace d'aujourdhui is 
really attached to Government, and exceedingly averse 
to opposition, I have always thought it a pity he should 
not be gratified in the only thing he seems to care about. 

This subject puts me in mind of the advertisement 
you want, and which luckily I found 'tother day upon a 
" rummage " of my escritoire. It is so curious that I 
did not burn it, and here it is much at your service. I 
don't want it. 

Do you know, my dear madam, I had the honour to be 
of a party to the Museum, where Dr. Solander vouch- 
safed to be our ciceroni, and I begged of him to present 
my respects at Bulstrode ; but when he got there it is 
no wonder he forgot me and my compliments. Your 
account of the noble lady of the mansion did, indeed, 
give me sincere pleasure, for I pretend to follow you 
very close in respects and good wishes envers son excel- 
lence. I believe we are both disposed to say a la Persane, 
" Queen live for ever !" and mean everything which 
that expressive salutation implies. I hope her Grace 
will hear good news from the Exchequer 1 soon. The 
cause began yesterday, as you know, and in the evening 
I heard that a great point had been decided against Sir 



1 On the 14th of November, 1771, in the Exchequer Court, was tried the 
great cause between Sir James Lowther and the Duke of Portland, in conse- 
quence of a grant, made to Sir James Lowther, of lands being for upwards of 
seventy years in the possession of the family of the Duke of Portland. Sir 
James Lowther was nonsuited. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 377 

James Lowther ; viz., that there was a flaw in his grant 
tant mieux : he is nonsuited, and I hope the end will be 
suitable to this beginning. I hear no other news, but 
that Ruspini the dentist said he had cleaned her Royal 
Highness's teeth yesterday, (meaning the P. D 3 , 1 ) and 
that he was sure " nothing ailed her mouth," at least " qui 
prouve trop, ne prouve rien." Adieu, my dear madam. 
I have by no means left myself room enough to tell you 
how much 

I am yours, 

F. B. 



The Dowager- Countess Gower to Mrs. Ddany. 

Holkham, 30 th Nov., 71. 

L y Leicester, and Dow r L y Gower, think it long since 
they have heard of y e Dow r D 3 of Portland and M r- 
Delany, but conclude they are now together at Bulstrode, 
and wish to hear good news of 'em ; and y l M rs- D. left 
all well at Ham. L y Gf. came here ab 1 a ffortnight ago, 
and found L y Leicester perfectly well. No news to be 
found here ; 'tis none, y* L y Gr. is M M< D' s most faithfull 
hbl e serv*, and loves to repeat it ! 

Since she wrote y e above lines, y e post brought her 
M ra - D. of ;y e 24 th ins*" w ch had halted somewhere. Glad 
it came at last, bringing y e intelligence wee here wanted, 
tho* checkquer'd as all things are w th yo r meeting w th an 
incident to sink yo r spirits, hope many may hapen to 
restore 'em to their natural state, a wish not quite void 



P.D. The Princess Dowager of Wales, died Fob. 8, 1772. 



S78 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

of self, thinking how pleasant it will be to find you 
chearfull in yo r " nest " (as you call it). 

The craft of y* law is ever unwilling to determine 
right. C d I curse any one, I sh d say, " let 'em fall into 
the hands of y e lawyers." A much worse lot y n into y e 
hands of any Phillistines y* e're subsisted ! L y L. desires 
her best respects to you, as wee both do to y e Dow r D 8 of 
Portland. Adieu, d r madam. 



Mrs, Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

Bulstrode, 1st Dec., 1771. 

I felt your cruel disappointment, my dearest Mary, at 
not seeing your dear P. at the time expected, but I think 
I pitied him more than you. Before this I hope joy 
has taken up her residence at Ham, and will no more be 
a vagrant. I am delighted with my dear little M's 
beautiful lock of hair. I thought she had been a 
bouncing girl, but I now figure her to myself a little 
sylph or fairy. Such a delicate lock could only belong 
to some such wonderful little being, but I don't approve 
of the exchange ! Give me a jolly smiling little creature 
that I may caress without fear of her evaporating ! As 
to the lock, I shall enclose it (though not in amber), to 
preserve it from being transported out of my reach, by 
the breath of those who cannot see it without admira- 
tion ! and place it in my glass case. 

Tell me sincerely what you think of my brother. I 
fear he is very bad. I hope all things went well during 
your stay. I had a melancholy letter last post from 
Mrs. Hamilton of Summer Hill. The next account (I 



OF MES. DELANY. 379 

have reason to think, I will not say fear), will inform 
me of Mrs. Forth's happy release from this vale of tears. 
She has past through a severe trial of a long painful ill- 
ness in a most exemplary manner, and nothing but the 
selfishness inseparable from humanity can make her 
friends regret the blessed exchange she will make. She 
was a most amiable, excellent, affectionate friend, with 
an understanding extremely well cultivated, and a great 
deal of natural wit which, though bright as a diamond, 
had not the property of wounding. 

I am still doubtful about Mr. Boyd, and alarmed, 
though had any fatal event happened it would have been, 
I suppose, in the newspapers. 

Mrs. Boscawen is very happy in the King's having 
appointed the Duke of Beaufort Lord-Lieutenant and 
C. B. of the county of Monmouth. The Duke and 
Duchess have been in town to kiss hands on the occa- 
sion, and return to keep Christmas at Badminton, and 
have inveigled Mrs. Boscawen to be of the party. Dr. 
Kay is as well as can be expected, though I believe not 
yet out of his bed ; the cure retarded by an ignorant 
country surgeon, which is terrible to think of. In his 
case, as it was an unforeseen accident, he was obliged to 
have the nearest that could be had. He is now in other 
hands. Lady Stamford was at Lady Wrottesley's chris- 
tening. 1 



1 John, eldest son of Sir Joan Wrottesley, was born 24th Oct., 1771. He 
was raised to the peerage as Baron Wrottesley, llth July, 1838, and died 
1841. 



380 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

St. James's Place, 7th Dec., 1771. 

I have had a letter from Mrs. Boyd with the account 
of Mr. Boyd's being much better, and Mrs. Sandford 
pretty well for her sad state, although 'tis like a day 
thoroughly overcast for a moment, and gives hope of 
clearing up, which proves a false one, but she is blest with 
a mind that can furnish her with balm for wounds of 
such a nature as to heal beyond the grave ; and if we had 
leisure or inclination to encourage and dwell on those 
glorious hopes, we should not only be reconciled to our 
own dissolution but to that of our friends ; we should 
have a foretaste of their felicity, and wonder at ourselves 
for being so sorry they are at the haven, where they would 
be, and it would lessen our regret at parting with 
them for a season, and animate us to be worthy (to the 
utmost of our power) of being reunited to them in end- 
less happiness. 

I was truly happy to hear of the return home of your 
dear and valuable friend, and that all things went to his 
satisfaction ; my constant wish that they may ever do so, 
and that you may joy to meet and mourn to part ; for 
(after all) those mere unfeeling philosophers who in- 
sensibly meet all changes, can have no more pleasure than 
a butterfly, though not half so beautiful a creature. Well 
I have thrown that pen away, it is so full of reflections, 
and have taken up a stump that will trot on as dull as 
John Hill! 

The Duchess and Mrs. Boscawen were to have met 
here Thursday evening, but we adjourned to Whitehall. 
I have seen nobody else, except your brothers; they 



OF MRS. DELANY. 381 

dined with me on Friday, and are to dine with me to- 
morrow, and go out of town on Tuesday. I shall miss 
them very much ; they have worked for me like little 
horses, and all my books are in pretty good order, and 
everything else, indeed ; but as to comfort or quiet I 
might for the three last days past as well have lived in 
a paper-mill, a pewterer's-shop, &c., such sawing, ham- 
mering, and all sort of noises, but all pretty well over 
and by way of exercise to my lungs I have scolded as 
smartly (as Dicky's mother could do) at absurd blunders 
and negligences but with all its faults 'tis mine own, 
and it will appear faultless to me when my dear Ham 
friends pay it a visit ! I have been more tormented 
about a carpet than anything else, the old one would not 
do, and Captain Lechmere gave ten pound for it, which 
was its full worth; however, he had other conveniences 
given up to him in T. H. C. that made matters even, and 
Mr. Shuttleworth (born to be my torment, and I in- 
fatuated to employ him), has disappointed me day after 
day, and at last in a fit of despair I have submitted to 
take a very vulgar one, (carpet I mean}. 

I will fall to spinning as soon as the wheel arrives, it 
will raise a mixture of tender and venerable ideas, but I 
shall dwell on the present owner of it, and with my mind 
so occupied / still shall turn your spinning-wheel ! Tony 1 
likes London of all things, which now seems to rival the 
Duchess of Portland ; at Bulstrode he hardly ever spoke 
or whistled but when she came into the room, but now 
like other fine sparks he is delighted with the beau 
monde, and prefers the noise within and without door 
to all the charms of Bulstrode and its sovereign. 

1 A bulfmch. 



382 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

I am glad you have had the pleasure of seeing the 
Rev. John, but wish to hear a better account from Cal- 
wich, for I apprehend my brother is very ill. Pray God 
support and bless him with every sentiment that can 
give him present comfort and future happiness. 

Your brothers dined here according to appointment on 
Sunday, and stayed till nine. The Duchess of Portland, 
Lady Walling* 1 , and Mrs. Dashwood finished the even- 
ing. Many and kind are the enquiries after Ham, and 
where "Miss Port" makes a principal figure in the 
piece. My harpsichord is come home. The spinning- 
wheel has arrived safe, and I, with the help of Bernard 
to screw the nobs, put it in order for spinning ; but what 
shall I do when my quill is full ? for neither by force or 
art can I get the present quill off the spindle ; perhaps 
you can help me with a word of advice. 

Your brothers marched off this morning, very well, 
and have left with me their pictures and a letter, which I 
shall send by Miss Sparrow. I spent the whole day at 
"Whitehall yesterday to meet Mr. Lightfoot, and we 
were so busy no interrupters were admitted. Our dear 
Duchess pretty well. When I came home I found my 
table covered with visiting tickets, Lady Bute and her 
two daughters, Lady Mansfield and her two nieces, Mrs. 
Drummond, Miss Auriole I was sorry they came when 
I was abroad, which will very seldom happen, for I find 
the love of my chimney-corner increase, and any hurry a 
little more than ordinary too much for me ; though I 
assure you I am very well, only lazy, or (as a fine lady 
not long ago said) " indigent" meaning indolent. Apropos 
to indigent, what do you think my bricklayer's bill alone 
comes to ? 146. I have called in the rest, and if they 



OF MRS. DELANY. 383 

are all in proportion high, I may write " indigent " for " in- 
dolent ! " The Duchess of Cumberland * (the vulgar say) 
is to have four ladies ; a beautiful one has been recom- 
mended, no less a person than a cook's daughter ! You 
may say what you please of her Royal Highness, but she 
has acted discreetly, and has kept up a dignity equal 
to any princess in romance, for she has kept her lover 
an humble suppliant to the last moment ! 

I had a letter last post from Mrs. Sandford (Mrs. 
Boyd worse again) ; she seems greatly sunk, and all her 
affairs unsettled. 



Mrs. Ddany to Bernard Oranville, Esq., at Calwich. 

St. J. Place, 17th Dec., 1771. 

Though I am always glad to receive a letter from my 
dear brother, the fear that it hurts you takes off from 
my satisfaction, and as I cannot be easy without an ac- 
count of your health from time to time, I hope when you 
cannot do it easily you will employ your chaplain, who 
I am sure thinks himself much obliged by your good- 
ness to him, and I make no doubt will deserve it. I 
have not yet seen the Countess, she has sent me word 
she will come soon, and I will let you know what 
passes. I am glad you did not see Mr. B. K. for by all 
accounts his head is wrong, he has been a sad torment 
to his family, and I believe was the ruin of Mr. J. Chap 6 . 
If he writes again would it not be the best way instead 
of an answer, to send him back his letter ? I will 



1 His K. H. the Duke of Cumberland married the Hon. Mrs. Horton, 
daughter of Simon Luttrell, Baron Irnham, afterwards created Earl of Car- 
hampton, 1785. 



384 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

deliver your compliments to the Duchess of Portland this 
evening. We were yesterday together at Mr. Banks's 
to see some of the fruits of his travels, and were de- 
lighted with paintings of the Otaheitie plants, quite dif- 
ferent from anything the Duchess ever saw, so they 
must be very new to me ! They have brought the seeds 
of some of them which they think will do here ; several 
of them are blossoms of trees as big as the largest oak, 
and so covered with flowers that their beauty can hardly 
be imagined ; there is one in particular (the name I 
cannot recollect), that bears vast flowers, larger and 
somewhat of the appearance of the largest poppy when 
full blown, the leaves all fungid ; the petals that are 
like threads, are at the calyx white, by degrees shaded 
with pale purple, ending with crimson. The leaf of the 
tree large and of a fine green ; the branches are frequently 
full of a little blue parrot, not bigger than a bullfinch, 
and they snap off the flowers so fast that the ground is 
quite strewed with them, they blow daily like the gum 
cistus. They have a number of very pretty plants that 
grow out of other trees (like our mistletoe), but with 
lovely pretty flowers. Most of the views Mr. Banks and 
Dr. Solander brought over were gone to be engraven for 
the history of their travels to come out next year ; the 
Natural History will not come out till three years hence, 
that is, not till they return again. I hope they won't 
meet with such churls as the Portuguese, who are like 
the dog in the manger, unqualified and unable to inform 
the world of the natural beauties and curiosities of their 
own country, and yet will not suffer those that are able to 
do so. I am not sure the tree I have attempted to de- 
scribe did not grow at Hio del Janeiro, where they landed 



OP MBS. DELANY. 385 

by stealth, and in two hours time got near forty plants. I 
wish my tedious description has not tired you, but I was 
so pleased with the flower, &c., I could not help commu- 
nicating it : one extraordinary beauty I forgot, which is 
that the flower as it hangs down is transparent. I long 
to hear you are well enough to go to Bath. Mrs. Sand- 
ford tolerably well in health. She has taken a house to 
herself ready furnished for one year in Blad 8 Buildings. 
Lady Clive l is now at Bath, which I am glad of. The 
P. Do r of W s not thought in immediate danger, though 
not in a recovering way. Betty Granville much out of 
spirits. My kind compliments to the Reverend, with 
the best wishes of the season. Adieu. 

Foleys not come to town yet ; he is so much recovered 
that he uses all manner of exercise with as much ease as 
before his illness. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

St. J. P., 18th Dec., 1771. 

I am impatient to answer my dearest Mary's charm- 
ing letter of the 14th. Every sentiment dictated by such 
a heart must give true satisfaction, and want nothing to 
make it agreeable, as well as valuable to the friend they 
are addressed to. I always think when I write to you, 
that my letters contain but little entertainment, and I 
am sure do not sufficiently express my soul's meaning. 
But your kind and partial acceptance, give them their 



1 " Lady Clive." Margaret, daughter of Edmund Maskelyne, Esq., who 
married, 15th March, 1752, Robert, Lord Clive, the celebrated General in 
India. 



386 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

value, and so I'll write on, tell you all I think, all I hear, 
and consequently (as to the latter,} more than is true ! Ob- 
serve the sympathetic string that unites us : your last 
letter, written on the same day as my last, mentions the 
dear friend, 1 whose memory we both cherish with so muck 
love and reverence ; surely the recollection of her virtues 
must animate us to follow so bright an example. 

I am glad our precious babe is already so attentive to 
what in time I hope will add to her happiness, and be 
a means of preserving her virtue ; accomplishments, when 
founded on the rock of good principles, are of infinite 
use ; but relaxation and home amusements are neces- 
sary, and the purest and best informed minds require 
them ; and they that can take delight in improving the 
talents Providence has blessed them with, will not be in 
danger of adding to the new coterie, distinguished by 
the name of " the Cuckow club," (an account of which I 
have just read in the Public Advertiser,) and many other 
enormities too tedious for me to mention. A sample of 
modern dress I enclose, which I saw with my own eyes 
last Sunday ; the impression was so strong, that I have 
sketched or rather scratched it out for your admiration. 
I am much obliged to you, and your dear P/s kind 
paragraphs about my house, crowned with the prospect 
of your seeing it at a convenient opportunity ; but I do 
not wish it a moment sooner, if our pleasures are not 
led by the fair dame Discretion, as instead of a rosy path 
we shall be entangled with thorns and briars, and they, 
with all our care, are too apt to intrude. I do justice, 
and always shall, to your kind thoughts about me, with 
sincere gratitude. 

1 " The dear friend." Ann Granvillo (Mrs. Dewcs). 



OF MRS. DELANY. 387 

Our dear Duchess met Lady Mansfield and Miss 
Murrays here yesterday, and all inquired much about 
you, and desired their compliments. I have nothing to 
do with your private correspondence with her Grace ; I 
fear you not, so do your worst I We had last Monday at 
Mr. Banks's house in New Burlington Street, a charm- 
ing entertainment of oddities, but not half time enough. 
In the first place we saw the Otaheite dress, something 
more simple, but not so well suited to our climate, as 
our compounded dress. They only wear a mantle, which 
they tie about their neck, much of a square that hangs 
almost to the ground, so, &+ one arm bare and the 
hair tied up in a knot ; -*^r\ this is their common 
dress, their commanders f\ are distinguished, with 
a little more ornament, a " gorget made of pigeon's 
feathers and dog-fish teeth. Feathers in their heads, 
and caps almost as top gallant as a modern English 
lady's. 



The Hon. Mrs. Soscawen to Mrs. Delciny. 

Badminton, 22ud Dec., 1771. 

I am much flattered, my dear madam, by your kind 
remembrance of me ; it is surprising the number of 
warm, and pleasant walks I have had since I came 
here ; but still these walks and ways of mine are so uni- 
form et si plattes, that they are not worth your hearing 
of. News we expect from you, (our kind correspondents 
in the metropolis) ; company we have had, par ci par la, 
guests that have tarried a day or two, and luckily all 
gentlemen, for ladies are apt to take up abundance more 



LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

of one's time, and not being well acquainted with them, 
V Ennui will be of the party, do what one can. At present, 
indeed, we have got a lady much to our content and satis- 
faction, if we could but keep her. Mr. and Mrs. South- 
well 1 came yesterday, and as they are very agreeable 
friends, we are only sorry that they go away again to- 
morrow. 

After this account of our coming and parting guests. 
I need not tell you that we are all in good health, and 
that my little grandchildren (three very pretty boys, I 
assure you) make the voice of joy to be heard all over 
the mansion. I have got a south apartment in it, which 
is very pleasant at this season. I retire to it for several 
hours in the morning, (and good long mornings we 
have,) to pour over abundance of old authors, with which 
the large library supplies me. I doubt I am neither wiser 
nor better for my studies, though I would fain be both. 
The evenings are spent in society, nor have we called in 
any gambling to our assistance, more than once when 
the company was numerous. You, my dear madam, 
have been very agreeably employed in other ways, still 
exploring the treasures of a late discovered world, and 
adding them to the storehouse of your knowledge ; but I 
can't bear that you should be worried and fatigued with 
workmen. I hope they are all keeping holiday now, 
and will let you enjoy some in peace and tranquillity. 

Many thanks for your good news of the Duchess of 
Portland's health my best wishes attend her Grace, 
and for yours, my dear madam, through many new 



1 Edward Southwell, of King's Weston, Esq. (Gloucestershire), who 
succeeded, on the death of the Countess of Leicester, in 1775, to the Barony 
of de Clifford. lie married Sophia, third daughter of Samuel Campbell, Esq. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 389 

years. I rejoice with you that all is well at Ham, which 
will contribute to make them happy ones ; and as you 
have nothing now (I trust) to harass your mind, so I 
insist upon it that you do not fatigue your body, with 
which positive injunction I leave you, and am most 

Truly yours, 
F. B. 

P.S. The Duchess of Beaufort and Fanny desire me 
to present their best respects to you. 

I intend to go over to Bath for a day after Christ- 
mas, to see Mrs. Molyneux and my friends in the Circus. 



The Countess Coivper to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

Richmond, Dec. 22nd, 1771. 

MY DEAREST MRS. PORT, 

I am happy to hear that you and your sweet 
baby go on so well. I congratulate you on Mr. Port's 
return, for he is so attentive to you that you must miss 
him greatly when absent. I wish you both many, many 
happy new years. A merry Christmas I conclude you 
will have, though perhaps not quite so merry as your 
Welsbourn ones. I imagine you have heard of the 
extraordinary step Mr. Granville has 'insisted upon your 
brother John's taking, of throwing up his chaplainship ! 
I conclude he means by it (if he has any meaning left) 
to make him more dependent on him, and he will, I sup- 
pose, make him his heir. Alas, poor Bernard! Some 
people contrive to make their family unnappy, even after 
they are dead! Your brother wrote me as proper a 
letter upon the occasion as such an unprecedented step 

PART II. VOL. I. 2 D 



390 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

could produce ! but I am not displeased with him, and I 
shall supply his place with my old acquaintance, who said 
to you I was " the sweetest woman !" he will then think me 
sweeter than ever. Poor Mrs. Fitzwilliam is quite laid 
up with a fever, which returns so frequently that I fear 
for many reasons she will not last long. The last time 
I saw the General he desired me, when I wrote to you, 
I would say from him he desired your permission to send 
you a minuet ! My son has brought Mr. Tollemache into 
Parliament, in Captain Howe's room, without opposition. 
Mrs. Le Grand is still here, and I shall keep her as 
long as I can. I often think of the pleasant hours I 
passed with my dear girl. 

Soupire 
Vient du souvenire. 

Let me near from you soon, for I am as much as ever 
Your tender and affectionate 

S. G. COWPER. 

The last accounts from Nice were favourable ; but I 
begin to be uneasy, as it is now some time since there 
has been a letter. 



Mrs. Ddany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

St. J. P., 28th Dec., 1771. 

I feel more impatient than usual to hear from my dear- 
est Mary, which makes me not stay till I receive an 
answer to my last about the telescope. Your muffs are 
done, and I wiH send them at the same time, and I 
was persuaded to take a case for the ermine for fear of 
moths. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 391 

And now to explain my impatience. I must own 
I have taken an alarm about Calwich, which, of conse- 
quence, must give me great anxiety, and am restless to 
hear. The death of my good friend Mrs. Forth has 
given an additional weight, though were I not a poor 
frail mortal I should rejoice at her happy change, and in 
a little time I hope I shall. These events, though fre- 
quent, are awful and particularly affecting when those 
younger than ourselves are taken from us ; but I feel 
more for her sister than for myself, knowing full well 
such a wound is never quite healed ; nor should it be, as 
it keeps up an image whose excellent example must 
make us endeavour to be worthy of a reunion. 

At the same time this account came I received a 
packet from Calwich, with the letters to and/r0, which I 
am expected to give my opinion of at all times a difficult 
task, as I cannot approve, and am fearful of irritating a 
disposition whose bodily sufferings I fear could ill sup- 
port any new vexation, which though drawn on himself 
nevertheless must occasion great agitation, and wish it 
were possible he should be in that composed state that 
he might receive the comfort of an humble and patient 
resignation under his sufferings, and be prepared for an 
event most probably not far off. I would not say so 
much to my dearest M. did I not know she wishes on 
all occasions to be my comfort, as she is always my 
delight ; and the unburthening one's heart to a faithful 
tender friend is ever an alleviation. I have a thousand 
things I wish I could say wish most earnestly to ex- 
change our thoughts on what has been and what may 
happen, but it is impossible to do it in the short compass 
even of our letters. The fluctuating state of my mind has 

2n 2 



3.92 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

cut me short in my journals. I hardly at present know 
how to recollect the last week's transactions, which I wish 
to do for your amusement. Last Saturday I dined with 
Mrs. Montague she came to town on Thursday ; came 
home to meet the Duchess of P. at seven, and had the 
agreeable addition of Lord Guildford, the Bishop of 
Litchfield, and Sir William Musgrave. Ham was ho- 
nourably mentioned, with many kind enquiries. Wed- 
nesday devoted to the happy purposes of the day the 
anthem at St. James's Chapel, by the King's order, was 
" Glory to God, he shall feed his /lock," &c., and the last 
chorus out of the Messiah. Oh ! how I wished for you ! 
Our dear Duchess came to me every evening except last 
Tuesday. Mrs. Mon., Hanover Square, drank tea with 
me, and in walked (an agreeable surprise) Mr. Mason, 
in good spirits, and about half an hour after, Mr. 
Fitzherbert. Here again, the charms of Ham and its 
owners were brought on the tapis, they stayed till 
eleven. I was very sorry the Duchess of Portland 
missed them. Yesterday we met at chapel, and she said 
she would come and dine with me. I gave her an ex- 
quisite bit of roast pork and hashed venison. She 
said she never eat anything so good in her life, and it 
certainly proved a heartier meal than I ever saw her 
make, and she said, " Tell our dear Mary it relishes vastly 
the better for coining from Ham" After dinner she made 
a visit, and then returned to me again you well know 
her pretty, kind, attentive ways when she thinks one's 
mind is not quite at ease. I must write to dear Mrs. 
Sandford to inform her of Mrs. Forth's happy release ; it 
is a painful task to add a pang to a wounded mind. 
The Cottingham cheeses are arrived, and are the best 



OF MRS. DELANY. 393 

I ever tasted ; but alas ! from their richness and soft- 
ness, unable to bear a rough journey, and they are sadly 
smashed. You will discharge my money debt, as well 
as for the attention and trouble Mr. Marsh has had 
about them. I must again say both your venison and 
your pork are excellent. 

Your obliged and affectionate, 

A. D. 

Send the inclosed half-sheet to Calwich (I cannot 
write to-day), but not Miss Hamilton's, as it may affect 
him too much. 

I have not yet seen the C. I wish our interview 
was over. I liave expected her every morning for ten 
days. I have written to her to say I hoped to see her. 
I should be sorry to have her think I was the adviser. 

P.S. I hope the sturgeon and anchovies, &c., all came 
safe, and that your young visitor l is well : pray, my com- 
pliments to her. When she returns, I hope you remem- 
ber, if it is convenient she will be very welcome to be 
my guest, and whoever conveys her. 

Mrs. Grarrick called upon me yesterday morning, and 
is " vastly glad that amiable, agreeable younf lady she 
met at Bulstrode is so happy." 

Dr. Courayer has been here twice, and begs his best 
compliments, seems full as well as last year, 

Many, many happy new years to you both. 



1 Frances Mabel, only daughter of Mr. Port's only brother, the Rev. George 
Sparrow, Vicar of Ham. 



391 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ilam. 

St. James's P., 31st Dec., 1771. 

MY DEAREST MARY, 

Unwilling to baulk your mirth and disappoint 
your kind design of diverting your own A. D., I inclose 
an unworthy [answer] to the quartette j 1 don't let it 
transpire out of your own circle nor give a copy, for 
what is droll and understood among ourselves may 
not appear so to others. Many thanks for your 
joint letter, and for all your goodness to me. I am 
sorry my last gloomy 'letter should have arrived at 
a time so justly devoted to mirth and joy; but my 
dearest Mary accepts me in all moods. I have at last 
plucked up courage, and sent an answer with all caution 
to Calwich ; you'll find out how it was accepted and let 
me know particularly : it was a difficult task, and I am 
now unequal to difficulties. I don't want the chintz 
petticoat till Miss Sparrow returns. I am obliged to you 
and your dear P. for taking my hint about " speech" so 
kindly. The strange behaviour of the young ladies of 
the present age makes one tremble for those that are to 
come on the stage ; and I think much is owing to their 
want of that humble, respectful deference (to parents and 
elders) that we were taught in our childhood ; it seems 
odd in one of seventy-one years of age to link herself 



1 The answer alluded to was a dialogue between P. M. F. and V., by 
which letters were probably meant Mr. and Mrs. Port, of Ilam, Miss Sparrow, 
and Miss Vrankin, the Governess. It was partly in prose and partly in 
verse, and written by Mrs. Delany in answer to a jeu d'esprit sent for her 
amusement from Ilam. Among other allusions is one to the Duke of 
Newcastle, in these words "No French Cook, not even Chloe himself, could 
have given an olio a better relish." To the word Chloe is appended a note 
with " kite Duke of Newcastle." 



OF MRS. DELANY. 395 

with twenty-five, but you had the blessing (though 
early removed from you) of a pattern and instructor 
who was exempt from the vanity and carelessness of 
these modern mothers. I think in some of my self- 
conceited moments I will write a book of maxims for 
G. M. A. 1 

I have sent Smith in search of smaller laces and toys 
fit for a fairy ; Butler has none smaller than those I sent. 
I am glad your jaunt to C. succeeded ; and hope, as you 
say, you are so well (and surely you would not deceive me). 
I am quite happy about the nurse ; as to your house- 
keeper, if honest, sober, and careful, something else must 
be overlooked, as there is no perfection in mortals even of 
a higher rank. I am mightily pleased with the account 
you give of Miss Sparrow ; and am sure you will not be 
wanting on your part to show her the best kindness in 
your power, and not by a false and improper indulgence 
to hurt either her mind or constitution. I hope Mrs. 
Terry performs her part well ; and I think she must by 
the improvement you find. Poor thing, if discipline had 
begun early enough she would at this time want less 
restraint. I was much obliged to Miss S. for her oblig- 
ing letter, and hope she will accept my thanks and 
good wishes this way, as I have a great deal of writing 
on my hands. I am glad you like the brawn. I not 
only every day feast on my Cot. cheese, but have been 
so generous as to bestow a whole one on the Duchess of 
Portland ; by-the-bye, should you not thank her for the 
rose-trees, as well as wishing her a happy new year ? 
She loves " our Mary !" but I never inquire about your 



1 " G. M. A:' The little child Georgina Mary Anne Port. 



396 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

correspondence with her but I wish you would let her 
know exactly the state of your invalid neighbour, for I 
will ask no questions though my thoughts and heart 
are full as the apprehensions of what a friend suffers is 
grievous. I'll get some franks as soon as my acquaint- 
ance come to town. Major Egerton has been danger- 
ously ill ; is better. No visit yet from B,. ; but a kind 
letter, just mentioning what was past, which she says " / 
was forced to do." I hope the war will not be continued. 
She will have the advantage at repartee, which is her 
forte, and she has certainly been much provoked. 1 

Did I tell you Lady D. Gr. was come to town, and 
had been here ; looks ill ; asked much about you ; glad 
of the account I gave ; and I delivered the receipt for 
the 100 which you gave me. On Sunday at noon 
Mr. and Mrs. Boyd came to town and brought Miss 
Corser with her, who was with Mrs. Sandford. As she 
had business in town for a few days before she returned 
to Shropshire, I invited her to take a bed here ; and it 
has been a melancholy satisfaction to me to learn many 
particulars of my poor afflicted friend I could not know 
by letters. She says she has got into a very convenient, 
pretty house, and hopes when she is settled she will be 
better. Little Tommy has had a return of his disorder. 
Yesterday, in the afternoon, as Mrs. Dashwood and I 
were sitting at work expecting her Grace of Portland, 
who should stalk in with her stately steps but the 
Duchess of Bedford. I believe I looked aghast, and 
well I might, when for four years I had not heard from 

1 " Much provoked." This probably alluded to the Countess Cowper and 
Mr. Granville, who had offended her by making his nephew resign his 
Chaplaincy. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 397 

or seen her. The visit was short ; she told me Lord 
Granville 1 had run away, and nobody could tell where 
he was gone. I was afraid of our friend Lady D. Gr. 
coming in, which would have vexed me, for she does not 
love the family of " the Brimstone " (as they are called), 
they have all taken it into their heads this winter 
to visit me ; but I have no matches to make, and shall 
not let them in. 

N. E,. well again. 

I have not mentioned the visit you had from Mr. K., 
as it would mortify her to think he had been trying his 
arts among her friends ; and she must have been ap- 
prized from Mrs. Boyd of his sad conduct. 

Foleys not in town. B. Granville is taken up with 
her dear Princess of Brunswick. Mrs. Boscawen not yet 
in town. Sir W. W. W. the happiest of men ; and so he 
was not many months with Lady Har*. How flexible 
are the affections of some men ! 



1 Robert Carteret, last Eart Granville of that family. 

2 Sir Watkin Williams Wynn, married, first, 6th April, 1769, Lady 
Henrietta Somerset, fifth daughter of Charles, 4th Duke of Beaufort, who 
died in a few months afterwards ; and secondly, 21st Dec., 1771, Charlotte, 
daughter of the Right Hon. George Grenville, and sister of the Marquess of 
Buckingham. 



LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



CHAPTER XXII. 
1772. 

Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

St. James's Place (alias Lapland), 2nd Jan., 1772. 

I was almost all despair, when the double rap at the 
door made my heart leap with expectation, and produced 
my dearest Mary's letter, dated the 1 3th, which surely I 
ought to have had last Friday, but suppose the waters 
retarded my happiness of hearing at the usual time ; but 
I will forgive them since they did not drown the MS. ; 
and blessings on your pen, or rather on the dear head 
and heart that dictated, and gave me so good an account 
of what I hold so dear. 

I am quite glad you find Fanny 1 so much improved 
and so attentive ; and hope her good sense will make 
her sensible of the happiness and advantage of having an 
uncle and aunt who are so sincerely her friends : young 
minds, when they have a good disposition, are easily led 
into the right path, if they have been early taught 
obedience a point of such high consequence that it is the 
foundation of all future good to them here and hereafter. 
It makes every task easy, but where that has been 



Frances Mabel Sparrow, Mr. Port's niece. 



OF MKS. DELANY. 399 

wanting there must be an uncommon degree of sense 
and resolution to master the overbearing passions and 
evil tendencies that will struggle hard for mastery. If 
I don't cut my harangue short I shall be as tedious as 
the letter-writers about Wilkes and the aldermen, &c. 

The Duke of Beaufort came from Badminton last 
Friday ; a bridge was ^broken down that morning, and 
only planks laid over, which were too dangerous to pass 
in the chaise ; the horses were taken off the carriage, 
all the men were employed in leading the f horses singly 
over the planks, and his Grace and Dr. Boscawen 1 drew 
the chaise over themselves. Good night ; I am going 
to bed to dream of you and Paulinette, and to-morrow 
will go on with my epistle. 

I have not seen our dear Duchess these three days, 
such has been the impassibility of the ways between 
this and Whitehall ; daily notes have passed, and to- 
morrow I hope the charm (that is the ice] will be broken 
and not obstruct our meeting. 

The sweet violet is deposited in my pocket-book ; but 
by this time you have another frost scene, that will bury 
all your sweet flowers, and threatens to pay us all its 
debts. How beautiful your mountains, your valleys, 
and your woods must appear in their dazzling whiteness. 
I have no despicable frost scene out of my window ; tho' 
a little encumbered indeed with walls and old houses. 

I am glad you wrap the Paulinette warm ; those tender 
limbs require it, and I know you are of my mind ; do not 
begin too soon to try and harden delicate plants ; have 



1 The Hon. Nicholas Boscawen, Dean of St. Buryan, in Cornwall, youngest 
son of the 1st Viscount Falmouth, and brother of Admiral Boscawen. 



400 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

every warmth but that of always hovering over a fire ! 
You are so wonderfully improved in your writing that I 
will not allow the word scrawl to appear in your letters ; 
and I shall call it affectation. You will, I suppose, be 
careful in opening your box, as the mended bottle is 
stuffed into the ermine muff", wrapped round with gloves 
to keep it steady. I hope your dear P.'s elopement will 
not be longer than a week : don't imagine you have all 
my pity ; he has at least half of it. En attendant your 
fire-side seems ^comfortable with your sweet child and so 
good a lecturer ; not forgetting Miss Sparrow, the im- 
proving of whose mind I am sure is a real pleasure to 
you. My best compliments salute the triumvirate. I 
will now gallop over the journal of the week past. 

Mrs. Kinnersley 1 and Miss Kitty called on me 011 
Friday morning ; the rest of the family are still in the 
country. Mr. and Mrs. Boyd 1 dined with me that day 
and staid till six ; we had much discourse about poor 
Mrs. Sandford's affairs, which I fear will give her some 
perplexity to bring to order, great arrears due in Ireland, 
and some subtle friends to clear with in Shropshire (but 
that's entre nous). Mr. Boyd will be a steady and useful 
friend to her ; her four boys have been ill with feverish 
colds and coughs ; they are better, but sitting up four 
nights with them has given her a cold, and pulled her 
still lower : other friends at Bath well. Willoughbys 
and Dartmouths come to town; but no visiting this 
weather, though Mrs. A. Pit ventured to me on Sunday 
morning, and in the evening came Mrs. Boscawen and 

1 Mrs. Kynnersley. Penelope, wife of Thomas Kynnersley, of Loxley, Esq. 
Catherine, their youngest daughter, died unmarried in 1815. 

2 " Mrs. Boyd " was Catherine Chapone, sister of Mrs. Sandford. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 401 

Lord and Lady Edgecumb. Mrs. Pit went to the 
birthday in all her bridal finery, and took her standing 
where she could pay her compliments best ; bat before 
the King and Queen came to that side of the room she 
was so near fainting away as to be obliged to go home 
as fast as she could, which you may suppose caused some 
speculation. Mr. Pit called on me yesterday morning ; 
a solitary evening ; and this morning I have had list 
nailed round my doors, and stopping every crack and 
crevice that let in cold air, which, with good fires, makes 
my house very comfortable, and I have much reason to 
be satisfied, though it has been more expensive than is 
convenient, as I shall not this year be able to make some 
alterations that I proposed ; however, I will hope that 
Easter Term will finish my Irish affairs, and then I can 
indulge myself. 

Mr. Keene has got poor Fitz's 1 place, one of the 
Lords of Trade, a thousand a year; you _ know he is 
married to Miss Legge. 2 



Mrs. Dclany to the Rev. John Dewcs. 

St. James's Place, 7th Jan., 1772. 

I return you, my dear nephew, many thanks and 
many good wishes for yours, which I had the pleasure 



of receiving. 



1 Jan. 2, 1772, William Fitzherbert, Esq., M.P. for Derby, died suddenly. 
He was one of the Lords of Trade, and was succeeded in the office by William 
Joliffe, Esq. 

2 Whitshed Keene, Esq., M.P., married Elizabeth, daughter of George, 
Viscount Lewisham, and sister of William, 2nd Earl of Dartmouth. Mr. 
Keene became one of the members of the Board of Trade in 1774. 



402 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

I had a letter last night from your father, who has 
sent me some good Xtmas prog according to custom. 
I thank Grod they are all well, and that I shall have the 
pleasure of seeing your brother soon in town. The 
various seasons, like sickness, teach us to value the hours 
of sunshine ; if we prudently guard ourselves from the 
cold, and patiently abide it, we shall receive no real 
harm from it : a parallel case might be drawn and im- 
proved upon; from the trials and sufferings of this life, 
but that requires an abler pen, and may suit your pulpit 
better than a letter. 

Poor Mr. Fitz-Herbert's 1 unfortunate end is the subject 
at present ; his head had been disordered for some time, 
and the consequences of it apprehended by many of his 
friends ; but as our transitions here are pretty quick from 
one subject to another, the powder mills 2 blowing up 
have had their share. I felt two shocks, but was not 
alarmed, taking it for a sudden rising of the wind, when 
my maids knocked at my chamber-door, looking like 
spectres, and said the house was coming down. I imme- 
diately thought I had had rogues of workmen, and that 
my house was actually falling. I put on my warmest 
capuccin, called my servants to follow me, and walked to 
the street-door, where I was assured it was an earth- 
quake, an opinion that prevailed all over the town till 
the King's messenger returned from enquiring at Houn- 
slow. Though the damage has been great (and I 
suppose a certain gilded castle at Richmond has been 



1 Mr. Fitzheibert committed suicide, on the 5th of Jan., by hanging him- 
self in his stable. 

2 Five powder-mills were blown up at Hounslow, on the morning of Jan. uth, 
1772. 



OF MKS. DELANY. 403 

considerably shook), it was a consolation to find it was 
not an earthquake, and I not a little comforted to find 
my own house staunch. The town they tell me begins 
to fill. Lord Temple/ they say, told Lord North he 
believed him so honest and able a minister he should 
give him no more trouble.. Many weddings are talked 
of, but so often contradicted, I am afraid of naming 
them ; it is " thought there is a future scheme under 
consideration for a union between the Duke of Devon- 
shire 2 and Lady Georgina Spencer." I think that para- 
graph would make a figure in a newspaper, and just in 
that style ! 

I am very comfortably settled in my new house, which 
is warm, airy, and convenient. At present my head is 
confused with calling in my bills and making up my ac- 
counts, for I think nothing my own till all is paid for, 
and the people tease me by not bringing in their bills ; 
however it is almost accomplished, and I hope then to 
sit down in peace for the time Providence allots me, 
thankful for the blessings I have received, and humbly 
hoping that those afflictions and trials I have gone 
through may be a means of future happiness. 



Mrs, Delany to Bernard Granville, Esq. 

St. James' Place, 16th Jan., 1772. 

Your letter, my dear brother, which I received last 
Tuesday, gave me great satisfaction and relieved my 



1 Henry Temple, 2nd Viscount Palmerston. 

2 William, 5th Duke of Devonshire, married, 6th June, 1774, Georgina 
daughter of John, Earl Spencer. 



404 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

spirits very much. I hope accounts of your health will 
still mend, and that you may be well enough to go to 
Bath. I have not seen the Countess, which I am glad of; 
the fermentation I hope will be subsided before we meet. 
Vanity will meet with a whipping now and then, and it 
is well it does, or it might grow (as weeds are apt to do) 
too obstreperous. As to " a scarf," I suppose Mr. J. D. 
has taken his Master of Arts degree at Oxford, and that 
will entitle him to one or to the privileges, if I am not 
mistaken. I must break off the thread of my discourse 
to tell you Tony whistles and talks to the admiration of 
all hearers, and delights in the rattling of the coaches. 

I have searched the town over, and the Duchess of 
Portland has employed all her emissaries in vain to get 
a print of Rousseau after Ramsay. 1 I am much pleased 
with your account of J. Dewes and your spending your 
time ; it is always a sign of a good head as well as a 
good heart to desire to improve the talents Providence 
has blessed us with ; and prevents that dreadful dissipa- 
tion so much practised now, which undermines every 
virtue. When I see Lady D r Gower I shall deliver your 
compliments, but " not to the Tiger" I assure you. I 
read that paragraph to the Duchess of Portland and 
made her laugh heartily. She is very glad to hear you 
are better. 

The Duchess bids me tell you of a notable flirtation, 
sur le tapis her Grace of Bedford 2 and Lord Ht.fd, 3 

1 There are two engravings of Rousseau, after Ramsay ; one by D. Martin, 
1766, and the other by J. Nochez, 1769. 

2 " The Duchess of Bedford." Gertrude, daughter of John, 1st Earl Gower, 
and wife of John, 4th Duke of Bedford, who died 15th Jan., 1771. 

3 " Lord Ht. fd." Francis, 1st Earl of Hertford, created Marquess of 
Hertford in 1793, and died, 14th June, 1794. He married, in 1741, Isabella, 
youngest daughter of Charles, 2nd Duke of Grafton. 



OF MES. DELANY. 405 

to the great amusement of observers. The Grandison * 
wedding is to be the end of this month. Our young 
travelled cousin is a poor weak-looking soul, and they set 
out furiously in jewels and other expenses, beyond the 
Mason finances, and more won't come till the mother's 
death, and she seems to be a much better life than her 
son's. 

The Duke of Leeds 2 is very happy in the return of his 
son, 3 who is at present much commended. I hope he will 
escape the harpies, both as to his purse and person, I 
make no doubt deep schemes are laid for both. I have 
no news; I am quiet in my chimney corner, and 
amuse myself with settling my shells that have been all 
jumbled together, and feel great comfort in having a 
place I can call my own, though it has cost me more 
than I intended, but not more than with prudent care 
I can answer ; and at the latter end of life, when living 
abroad is irksome and impracticable, a convenient home 
is a consolation for the infirmities of age. I thank God 
I receive good accounts from Ham. Lord Northingtoii 4 
is dead. Pss. of W. better. 



1 George Mason Villiers, 2nd Earl of Grandison, married, 10th Feb., 1774, 

Gertrude Conway, fourth daughter of Francis, Earl of Hertford. 

2 Thomas, 4th Duke of Leeds. 

3 Francis Godolphin, Marquess of Carmarthen, afterwards 5th Duke of 
Leeds. 

4 Sir Robert Henley, Baron Henley, Lord Chancellor of England in 1761, 
and three years afterwards created Viscount Henley and Earl of Northington. 
He died in 1772. 



PART II. VOL. I. 2 E 



406 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Flam. 

St. James's Place, 27th Jan., 1772. 

I have had a most disconsolate letter from J. about 
his present confinement? and beseeching me most ear- 
nestly to get "a call for him" meaning, I suppose, a 
living. Had that been at my call, he would have had one 
long ago, and those who I thought might have answered 
favourably have been reminded ; but when people are to 
bestow favours they will do it at their own time. I do 
most sensibly feel his painful situation. I have expe- 
rienced it often, and attended with aggravating circum- 
stances, and for a much longer time than he is likely 
to do. But his good principles will support him whilst 
he is performing an act of duty ; and his being able at 
the same time to improve himself in French and music 
are advantages that make some amends. An ingenious 
mind is never too old to learn ; beside, there is another 
mitigating circumstance, that the worst part of the 
winter is over ; that is, the shortest days, and time flies 
fast, a consideration which he is young enough to avail 
himself of, and when the trial is over will it not be a 
lasting consolation to reflect on having sustained it 
patiently, and at the same time given any comfort to 
age and infirmities. He desired me to answer this part 
of his letter enclosed to you, but I chuse not to address 
it particularly to him, for reasons that must be obvious 
to both. The letter directed to him with this is for 
public view. I enclose it to you to send, as I have no 

1 " Present confinement" with his uncle, Mr. Granvillc, with whom he was 
not very happy. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 407 

franks, to Calwich. Assure my dear Eeverend that I 
never can be unmindful of his interest, and especially at 
this time. 

I think Gr. M. A. is too young to sit long in her chair. 
Their little joints are weak, and want support. I ap- 
prove extremely of your wrapping her up warm. It will 
be time enough to harden her. I thank you for Mr. 
M.'s verses, with the lock of hair. They are very pretty. 
I will enquire about the thread. Have not seen Lady 
Weymouth since your letter. Lady Stamford come to 
town with a bad cold. I dare not go to her for fear of 
our dear Duchess, who charges me not to stir out this 
bad weather an injunction very easily complied with. 
My house is maintained by kind providers. Item : 
Venison from Mr. Montagu ; pork and turkey from Mr. 
Dewes; fowls and hares from Sandford; a perigot pie 
from Duchess of Portland on the road, and potted rabbits, 
all within one week ! ! 

It is probable that Miss Burney, having on some occasion 
heard of similar Christmas presents mentioned in a similar 
manner ', took it into her head to intimate, many years afterwards, 
that Mrs. Delany was actually " maintained " by the Duchess of 
Portland ! an imagination so evidently absurd that it would not 
be worth mentioning, excepting as a charitable endeavour to 
suggest a possibility of its having been a very ridiculous mistake 
instead of a wilful fabrication. 



Mrs. Delany to Mr. Part, of llam. 
DEAR SlR St. James's Place, 28th Jan., 1772. 

You are always good and kind to your A. D., 
and a fresh proof is your writing to me with a benumbed 

2E 2 



408 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

thumb, a calamity which T hope has entirely ceased, as well 
as your dear " pidgeon's " cold, and that health is perfectly 
restored to Ham, where I pray it may long reign with 
felicities of every kind. Six notes and three long letters 
have I already written this morning. My eyes are 
wondrous dim, the thick yellow fog is no small detriment ! 
but write I must to thank you for your obliging letter, 
and to tell you that whenever you think proper to send 
Miss Sparrow again to Mrs. Terry, she and Mrs. Salome 
will be very welcome at St. J. Place, and I will take 
care to convey Miss Sparrow safe to school ; and should 
I be at that time free from engagements, hope you will 
give her leave to stay one whole day with me. Should 
I find it not convenient, I will hope for that favour 
another day, and will send her to Chelsea under a good 
guard the day after she comes to town. 

I hope the amendment at Calwich will continue. It 
has been beyond my hopes. It is a melancholy thing 
to watch a friend under such infirmities, but surely the 
satisfaction of giving comfort to any human being in a 
painful situation is a real satisfaction, and these trials 
are sent to exercise our humanity, and going to school is 
no bad part of the story. The case would be much 
worse without it, and time would go on more heavily. 
I shall most certainly make your compliments as you 
desire to the best of women and of friends. What 
grievous affairs happen daily. Poor Mr. Fitzherbert ! 
I refer you to Mr. John Dewes for the strange account 
of Mr. Cowper. I have not yet seen the Countess; the 
weather, I suppose, hinders her, as Lord and Lady 
Spencer have been in town some time. 

A little billiards with Mr. Marsh in the morning, and 



OF MRS. DELANY. 409 

cribbidge at night I suppose go on, selon coutume (I 
know you love a little French}? except the map of Eu- 
rope has arrived, and you are become a travelled gentle- 
man ! Have you any thoughts of a post coach? Mrs. 
Sandford, I believe, will part with hers. She is advised 
so to do. It was new last year, is very handsome, and 
very well made. The coachmaker has offered her fifty 
pounds, and T am sure if it could accommodate you, she 
would give you the refusal. You could not have such a 
one made new under ninety pounds, and it is seldom you 
can be sure of the goodness of any second-hand carriage as 
you can of this. If you would wish me to mention it 
to her I will. 

The new play of the Fashionable Lover 2 is very sen- 
timental and pretty. 

I beg my compliments to Mr. Marsh. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

St. J. P. begun 29th Jan., 
ended 30th, 1772. 

Pegassus is too high metal'd a palfry for an old 
woman to mount, and the air of Parnassus too lofty and 
keen, besides the muses are such flirts, that they won't 
keep company but with wit and beauty, and look on 
grey locks as the true Medusa's head, so forgive me my 
miscellaneous correspondents that I don't answer you in 
the sweet strains of poetry, but in downright honest 



1 " Love a little French." This was a joke, meaning the contrary. 

2 The Fashionable Lover, a Comedy, by Richard Cumberland. Acted at 
the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, in 1772. 



410 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

prose return you thanks for bestowing so much of your 
time and so many undeserved compliments on A. D. I 
have sent according to order to take a place in the Man- 
chester coach, and when the messenger comes back will 
let you know the day. I hope the box and its contents 
are safely arrived and approved of, and Mrs. Salmon's 
gown I also hope will be ready against the time she 
fetches it. Fat John will no more rowl off Mr. Marsh's 
grey horse (I think it was), or weigh down the Ham 
mule, no more snore by the great kitchen fire, or tope 
Staffordshire ale ! but don't be alarm 'd, he is alive, and 
alive like to be, but is gone home to his Zantipe, and I 
have got a bonny Scot in his room that has a very good 
character for essentials, and seems a ready servant, really 
able to defend me at home and abroad. 

Yesterday, Lady Francis Coningsby, and Mrs. Trevor 
spent the afternoon with me, no Duchess, nor the day 
before, but she has just been here in her way to Lady 
Stamford, who is confined with a cold, and sends her 
kindest compliments to Ham. 

I wrote such a quantity yesterday among you, that I 
should not have written this post, but to give you an 
account of having taken a place for Mrs. Salome. 

I have heard various reports concerning the royal 
family to-day, the first that the poor P. of W. was re- 
leased, and the second that the King of Denmark is dead, 
both by to-morrow (when I shall finish this letter) may 
prove false ! 

I allotted this morning for rumaging and settling 
fossils, had them all display'd in the parlour, when in 
came Mr. Dick Sutton, then Mr. S. Mordaunt, (the 
eldest Miss Mordaunt recovered of the small pox), 



OF MRS. DELANY. 411 

then the A. B. of Yorks. 1 two youngest sons, very fine 
boys ; this company gone, then came Mrs. Bos n , then 
Lord Guilford, then Lady Spencer, then Sir William 
Musgrave, and by the time I was drest your two brothers ; 
they and dinner recruited my spirits, with the assistance 
of your entertaining " medley" Court is gone to the 
Pantheon, which everybody says is superlatively beauti- 
full. Lord Willoughby was so obliging as to send him 
his ticket. Bernard's turn will come another day. 

I have begun Mr. Penant's tour thro' Scotland, 2 and 
shall read till my eyes ache, eat my toast, drink my 
lemonade, say my prayers, and go to bed, and hope to 
dream of the dear friend to whom this is addrest, and her 
sweet child, not forgetting your dear P. who justly claims 
(and has it) a large share of the affection of your most 
faithful 1, 

M. D. 

My blessing to Gr. M. A., compliments to Miss S. and 
Mr. M. ! think of the sad distress of poor Mrs. 
Cowper, her son is not yet heard of. 

30th. 

Good morrow my dear Mary, but ah I did not dream 
of anything so pleasant as Ham and its dear inhabitants. 
Breakfast hardly over when Court called to tell me how 
fine the Pantheon was, and shewed me a long list from 
Mr. Granville for raisins, apples, and oranges, &c., so I 
presume he is better and preparing for an entertainment ! 



1 The Hon. Robert Drummond, Bishop of Salisbury, was made Archbishop 
of York in 1761, and died in 1776. 

2 A Tour in Scotland in 1769, by Thomas Pennant, Esq. (the Naturalist), 
first published in 1771. 



412 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

I suppose I may expect Mrs. Salome and Miss Sparrow 
in town on Tuesday or Wednesday next, their rooms are 
ready air'd. 

The reports whispered yesterday were false, and well 
would it be if what is said to-day could prove so too in 
short an express has brought an account of some sad 
affair in the State at Denmark. Now it is said that they 
have given a poyson to the K. of D. that has hurt his 
understanding; they are both under confinement, and 
perhaps no more. If I hear any more certainty or par- 
ticulars of this horrid affair, I will add it, if not here 
ends my epistle. 

Visiters this morning Miss F. Howard, Mrs. Drum- 
mond. 

It is now said that the physicians head is cut off, that 
a rebellion has ensued, and the Q. carried off and lock'd 
up in a castle ! 

The King seized, but released on his signing a paper 
to swear he would never see the Queen again. What a 
confusion such a wicked monster has raised ! 

Mr. Duncan to be married to Miss Jennings, the 
beauty, 1 who is half a year younger than his eldest 
daughter. 

- 

Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham* 

(? Feb. 1772.) 

I have to be sure made a fine puzzle about the coach. 
My first mention of it was only on what Mrs. Boyd said, 
that the coach-maker said he would himself give fifty pounds, 



J Thomas Duncombe, of Heiusley, Esq.> married, Feb. 24, 1772, Miss 
Jennings, daughter of Philip Jennings, Esq., M.P. for Totnes. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 413 

Mrs. Sandford was not then quite resolved to part with 
it, and when she was, a person at Bath would have 
treated with the coach-maker for it for 60 p d , but Mrs. 
Sandford said, " Mrs. Port should have the refusal." I 
thought I had said this to Mr. Port, who in answer 
made no objection to the price, but said he should ex- 
pect the coach to be sent to London without any other 
expence ; which I notified, and Mrs. Sandford came to 
town in it herself as the safest way for the coach to 
travel, fearing if she trusted it to any other person, it 
might not be so well taken care of. The matter now 
stands thus. The coach is y for fifty pounds, with the 
harness for one pair of horses, and the trunk. Mrs. 
Sandford will be better pleased you should have it than 
any body else. As to new painting it does not want it, 
only the arms. I believe I said harness for 4 horses in 
one of my letters, but it is only for a pair of horses. 

On Saturday last Mrs. Sandford and Tommy went to 
Danson, 1 and to-morrow morning by eight o'clock Ber- 
nard and I set out for Danson to bring her back. She 
will rest a few days in London before she returns to 
Bath. I don't know but I have got a very good place 
for Mrs. Salome Lady Wallingford's old servant, Mrs. 
Lefevre, is dying, and she wants a servant. I have ven- 
tured to redommend Mrs. Salome. I sent for her to-day 
for Lady W. to see and talk to, and she likes her very 
well, but cannot quite determine till some days hence. 
I hope I may say she is good tempered, tho' I had 
reason to think, when I was at Ham, that there was 
some little fault in it, but it might be owing to her ill 



Danson." Mr. Boyd's place, in Kent. 



414 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

health ; but I think I may promise for her honesty and 
sobriety. As I think it will be a pleasure to you to have 
her provided for I was glad of the opportunity. Let my 
brother know I am well and had the pleasure of his 
letter, which I will answer as soon as I can, but whilst 
Mrs. Sandford stays in town, I am a good deal taken up 
with her and have a good deal of business to settle. I am 
impatient for your answer to my last. I am so afraid of 
your taking strong physick, for your nerves will not 
bear it. I see my lovely Paulinette is worthy of all ad- 
miration ! We have just dined after our return from 
Danson. Bernard sets out to-morrow and will be a 
great loss. I am tired, but very well, but can only add 
the kindest compliments of this house to yours, and that 
I am with the utmost tenderness, 

Y* own 

M.D. 

Lady Cowper was this morning in town and came to 
know if I was at home. I am sorry it happened to be the 
only day she has come to town since my coming about 3 
months ago. 



Mr. Fitzwilliam to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

Pall Mall, 13th Feb., 1772. 

DEAR MADAM, 

Considering the pleasures you are continually 
amidst, in the caresses and smiles of your little girl, I 
take it as a very particular mark of your civility to me 
in withdrawing yourself from them to do me the honour 
of a letter. All your happiness and every pleasing soli- 



OF MRS. DELANY. 415 

citude you have is very deservedly your lot, and Mr. 
Port, I dare say, is happy at having made you so. Lady 
Cowper, in the midst of our little wranglings, never 
meets with contradiction when we talk of the mistress of 
Ham ! There we join with cordiality, and she cannot 
utter a praise in your favour that I do not take up and 
carry on with an eagerness which re-instates me again 
in favour, and we part with complacency. Upon read- 
ing y r letter I stopped at that part of it which mentions 
the three last bars of the minuet, and made Tom play it 
to me on the moment. It is divinely pretty (I write 
from the side of the harp while he is playing). I beg 
you will practise and play it, as I know you will most 
excellently. I am not sure, to speak honestly, if I be 
not a little peevish with you. What ! do you then own 
that you do not practise above half the time you gene- 
rally used to do ? Consider, the time will come when 
the little girl will be to grow, and you will be to recom- 
mend music and every accomplishment to her ; and why 
should not you (already so founded) shew her an example 
of perfection in music, as well as in other virtues ? Let 
her try even to excell her mama, and be you her guide, 
her pattern, and the glass by which she may see herself to 
the most advantage. If then, not for y r own sake or the 
sake of y r friends, for her sake appropriate six hours only 
of the 24 hours to that delicious accomplishm* ! Be- 
lieve me the reward will be yours, tho' the harvest may 
be the little Georgi ana's. But I am going on as if I were 
Mrs. Delany or " my Uncle Granville" and am advising 
her who is so much more capable of advising me, to 
meddle within my own line, and not step over it, when 
it is to talk so impertinently ; there, then, I leave it to tell 



416 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

3 r ou I have seen Mrs. Delany at her cleverly-arranged 
house in St. James's Place. Tt really surprised me to 
see with what real judgment she has transposed and 
deposed, and she has made it a very agreeable and pleasing 
dwelling. She looks well, fresh, en bon point, but the 
harpsichord standing close shut up, with no chance of its 
being unlocked unless by you. Y r second brother (the 
fair one) was with her, with a lady I did not know, and 
a grave gentleman I had never seen before. My visit, 
therefore, was one of the shortest sort, which I mean to 
renew, that she may hear me upbraid you for y r musical 
negligences. The whole town is to put on sable for the 
Princess Dowager, 1 in whom the poor and needy have 
lost a real, generous, humane, and most benevolent friend. 
She gave away annually in the most private charities 
eleven thousand pound a year, and she has gone thro' a 
most painfull illness with the utmost magnanimity and 
fortitude. Peace then to her shade, and may her virtues 
overbalance her faults, be they fictitious or otherwise. 
It is happy for her she is gone, but it is miserable for 
the poor ! 

Mrs. Fitz has had another dreadfull fever, and took 
the opportunity of a dry frosty day to be brought hither, 
lest the Thames, as it has been known to do, should 
have come into her house. Her pres 1 amusement is 
seeing from her window the world pass and repass, some 
of which calls in in a morn*, and at night all is hushed 
with us at nine o'clock, so that Ham is not more a soli- 
tude than my house is after the night comes on. As 



1 The Princess Dowager, widow of Frederic, Prince of Wales, died Feb. 8th, 
1772. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 417 

soon as the good weather and her strength returns, the 
Bath is the prescription and is to be the cure. She begs 
her best respects to you and to Mr. Port, to whom may 
I beg of you to recommend me, as I am, with the most 
perfect regard, dear madam, 

Y r most obedient and most 

Humble servant, 

JOHN FITZWILLIAM. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

St. J. P., 23rd Feb., 1772. 

The 22nd of Feb y was remembered yesterday as usual 
with every tender and affectionate wish that my dearest 
Mary may enjoy many happy returns of the day. Our 
dear Duchess (born on the same day of the month) was 
joined in partnership with our dear Mary. She dined 
with me ; / was drest all in my best, and my drawing- 
room illuminated with candles. In the evening came 
Lady and Miss Howard, Lady Bute, Lady Wallingford. 
Mrs. Dash wood. The quadrille of the new order of monks 
that appeared at the maskerade * is the subject of con- 
versation : it was a droll thought and well executed, and 
they distributed a paper about which describes the dress 



1 The opening of the Pantheon is recorded in the Annual Register of 1772, 
where it is said that nothing could surpass the magnificence of the apartments, 
the boldness of the paintings, or the disposition of the lights in gilt vases 
suspended by gilt chains, with a number of statues representing the heathen 
gods and goddesses, to which were added three of white porphyry, repre- 
senting King George III. and Queen Charlotte, and Britannia. The number of 
rooms composing the suite was fourteen. The date of this opening is mentioned 
as the 27th of Jan., and the masquerade, alluded to in this letter, appears to 
have taken place the following month. 



418 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

they were in, and is an excellent satire on the tribe of 
maccaronis. 

I have also enclosed you an account of the Pantheon 
maskerade with all the explanation of the maskers' names 
that I can get. Be pleased to transmit to Calwich what 
you think will amuse. Sir Charles and Lady Bing- 
ham, 1 Lord Charlemont, 2 and Sir Thomas Tancred 3 were 
the quadrille. The lighting of the Pantheon and bril- 
liant eclat on going in, they say, was beyond all descrip- 
tion, and the going in and out made so easy by lanes of 
constables that there was not the least confusion. To 
ballance these delights the High Street robbers give 
many panicks, but pleasure will conquer all fears ; and 
the men on horseback with the pistol at their breast 
will at last grow so familiar as to be no more regarded 
than a common turnpike that makes you pay for your 
passage, and feminine fears as well as bashfulness is no 
more a check upon the female than the male maccaronis, 
pleasure is the prize they run for, and then nothing 
stops their course ! And now having tattled all my 
tattle, and finished with my moral, I must proceed to 
busyness. 

I hear Lady Cowper likes her new neice Mrs. Tol- 
mache extreamly, that Lady Tweeddale is looking out 
for a house in London, and is very well. Lady M. 
Mordaunt told me this, who was with me last Sunday, 
and at the same time I had a visit from Lord Warwick. 



1 Sir Charles Bingham, married, in 1760, Margaret, daughter and sole heir 
oF John Smith, of Cannons Leigh, Esq., co. Devon. Sir Charles was created 
I'aron Lucan in 1776, and Earl of Lucan, 6th Oct., 17;)">. 

2 James, 1st Earl of Charlemont. He married, 2nd July, 1768, Mary, 
daughter of Thomas llickman, Esq. 

3 Sir Thomas Tancred, of Boronghbridge. He afterwards married, in 1776, 
Penelope, daughter of Thomas Ash ton Smith, Esq. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 419 



Housseau to the Duchess of Portland. 

Je suis afflige du mauvais etat ou continue d'etre la 
sante de mon bon voisin M. Granville, cela augmente mon 
regret de n'etre plus a sorte de lui rendre des devoirs qui 
dans leurs inutilite lui auroient du rnoins temoigne combien 
je m'interesse a ses maux. II doit trouver une grande 
consolation dans 1'heureux marriage de son aim able niece ; 
je ne doute pas que le sage parti qu'elle a prit de nourir 
ces enfants malgre sa sante chancellante ne contribue a 
I'affermir ; je suis plus mortifie qu'etonne qu'elle ne se sou- 
vienne plus de moi au milieu de sa petite famille naisante. 
Un jeune mari fait aussi meme oublier un vieux Berger. 
Pour moi je me ouviendrai toujours d'elle ! cette ma- 
niere pleine de grace dont elle accompagnait 1'accueil 
carressant qui me faisoit son cner oncle, et je conserve 
precieusement un joli travail de ses mains qu'elle desti- 
noit a mon pauvre Sultan x et dont je suis souvent passe 
moi-meme. 

Rousseau came to England in January, 1766, with Hume, 
who was then Charge 7 d'Affaires at Paris, and who obtained for 
him the friendship of Mr. Davenport and the use of Wootton. 
He wrote his " Confessions " at Wootton, (which were published 
in 1788,) but after a disagreement with Mr. Davenport he returned 
to France in 1767. In 1770 he went to Paris and lodged in the 
Rue Platriere, afterwards known as the Rue Rousseau, and he 
finally removed, in the month of May, 1778, by the invitation of 
the Marquis de Girardin, to his fine place of Ermenville, near 
Chantilly, where he died two months afterwards, and was buried, 
by his own desire, in an island in the little lake of Ermenville, 
where a marble monument was raised to his memory, over- 
shadowed by poplars. 

1 " SultMi" his dog. 



420 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



Mrs. Delany to her niece, Mrs. Port, of Hum. 

St. J. P., 24th Feb., 1772. 

I must begin my letter with a disagreeable circum- 
stance. I thought I had secured Lady Wallingfords 
place for Mrs. Salome, but I find I have not. I had a 
note yesterday from her to say that, on consideration, 
she thought Mrs. S. too young for her service, as she 
wanted a more experienced person "to manage her 
affairs, as she never had whilst Mrs. Lefevre (who is now 
dying) was her servant any occasion to look after them 
herself, and her circumstances oblige her to be very pru- 
dent." I own I have been much vext that it was men- 
tioned at all to Mrs. Salome, as it has greatly disappointed 
her. Lady Wallingford sent her a guinea, but I will 
try if I can recommend her to another place. 

Has my brother communicated the tragical tale of 
Snow and Pil ? but still the poor deluded wretch is to be 
pitied, considering what her early education was- As to 
poor Lady Cowper, she is truly to be pitied, who had meant 
to do so kindly by the girl, and has met with so shock- 
ing a return. She ordered Mrs. Ker to see her married 
to S., and wrote to him to let him know that if he did 
not immediately marry her, she would prosecute him to 
the utmost. Snow came here this morning on receiving 
this letter to Mrs. Ker to say he would marry her, but 
most unwillingly, and if he does, I don't know what the 
advantage will be, as the wretch is in league with Lady 
Bamfylde, 1 and no good can be expected for the wretched 



1 Lady Bamfylde. Jane, wife of Sir Richard Warwick Bamfyldc, and 
daughter of Colonel John Codrington. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 421 

wife that is to be. It is thought that a licence will not 
be granted here, but they must go to Richmond to be 
married. L y C r has desired it may not be talk'd of, but 
it is half over the town already. 

I dine to-day at Lord Oruilford's, and on Friday at 
Lord Dartmouth's. I believe Mrs- Sandford will stay 
this week out. I have been so hurried with company 
all morning, that I can only add my most affec te wishes. 

Mrs. S.'s affec* compliments. Tommy wishes Mr. P. 
here to play with him. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port of Ham. 

St. J. Place, 29 Feby., 1772. 

As to the new painting the coach, as it does not want 
it, only the alteration of the arms, I thought you might 
like deferring the alteration of colour till it wants new 
painting. I should wish you could have it (or fetch it) 
soon, as being at nurse, (tho' I hope in safe hands,) will 
be no advantage to it, and it is now in as good order as 
if just made. Mr. Merchant has not yet been with me 
about blazoning the arms. 

I have this moment received your letter that was en- 
closed to Lord Willoughby. Mr- Foley has just been 
here, and I have got two franks to myself, w ch I enclose, 
and send you more- 

I have sent you no ivory letters. When those you 
have are worn out I hope I shall be able to recruit them. 

Some of Mrs. Sandford' s friends are so earnest with 
her to keep her coach for her own use, as airing is recom- 
mended to her, and one among them (for reasons I cannot 

PART II. VOL. I. 2 F 



422 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

in a letter explain) with whom she is a good deal con- 
nected, so very earnest, that she cannot immediately de- 
termine to do it till she convinces him that she is doing 
right, so I have not given her Mr. Port's note till that 
is quite fixt. I have not yet seen Lady Cowper. 

The vile Snow has consented to marry the wretched 
girl, but a licence cannot be gain'd. She is at present 
under guard in George Street. It is a shocking affair. 
Last Thursday Molly Ker was married to Mr. Tilt, a 
modest well-looking man. They breakfasted here, and 
went and dined genteely out of town, came back hither 
to tea, and went home at ten to their lodgings, Duke 
Street, Westminster, or thereabouts. Smith seems very 
happy, and little Tommy delighted w th the bride and 
bridegroom. 

I am sorry my bro r has had a return of his disorder. 
It is grievous he can't get to the Bath, on many accounts, 
but the All wise Disposer of all things only knows what is 
best for us. 

I dined last Tuesday at Lord Guilford's ; the company, 
Lord and Lady W y , Bishop of Litchfield and lady, 
Mr. and Mrs. Keeue. My journal of late has been in- 
terrupted, and, indeed, nothing worth transcribing, as I 
have kept back company as much as I could on Mrs. 
Sand ds account, as her poor spirits were sadly agitated 
when she first came, having so many things to transact 
that made her too sensible of her sad desolate state ; 
but now they are pretty well over, I hope she will be 
better, as she does all in her power, and I have prevailed 
with her to see a few people. Tommy is just come in, 
and asks who I am writing to. I said, " Mrs. Port/' 
" My love to her, and my love to her little child." 



OF MRS. DELANY. 423 

Mr. Walpole drank to the Dss. of Queensberry, and, 
by way of a toast, he " wislid she might live to grow ugly." 
She answered, " / hope, then, y u will keep y r taste for an- 
tiquities" 



Mrs. Delany to the Rev. John Dewes. 

St. J. Place, 9 May, 1772. 

MY DEAR NEPHEW, 

I wish you could have given me a better account 
of my dear brother's amendment. I saw Mr. Weston 
yesterday, who told me he thought him better. I have 
sent the French plumbs according to his desire, and hope 
they will prove good ; they are from the same person. I 
have also sent my brother a new fashioned cheese carver, 
as I know he loves new useful whims. I would not 
venture to pack up Rousseau s print with the plumbs, and 
Mr. Weston has promised me to be very carefull of it. 
I am glad to find it is not necessary to be a Latin or 
Greek scholar to find out conundrums, for I, by y e help 
of my Dictionarys found those you named, and another 
which you have not Althea Fructus, commonly called 
Frutex. 

I had an invitation one day last week to dine at Mrs. 
Boscawen's, to meet Mr. B. Boothby * and talk of Staf- 
fordshire, which I did, and the morning after he made 
me a visit, and brought me a fine nosegay, which is now 
the politest present can be made, and are so much the 



1 Mr. Brooke Boothby, eldest son of Sir Brooke Boothby. He was a poet, 
and one of the literary circle at Lichfield, to which Miss Seward, Dr. Darwin, 
and Edgeworth, belonged. He married Susanna, daughter and heir of Eobert 
Bristoe, Esq. 

2 F 2 



424 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

fashion for gentlemen, as well as ladies, that their 
pretty persons are almost lost in a bush ! Apropos, have 
you seen " the address to a Maccaroni behind his nosegay 
and before his looking-glass?" I hope the waterfowl will 
return to you with good interest, and that the wind will 
change soon, that Calwich may appear with its usual 
beauty. The Duchess of Port., who always charges me 
with her good wishes and compliments to CaL, is kept in 
awe by the sharpness of the weather, or we had gone to 
Bulstrode next week, but it will hardly be before the 
week after. My letters still to be directed to me in 
town. 

I went yesterday to see poor Mrs. Bramston, who has 
been greatly shocked with the death of Lady Frances 
Eliot: 1 she died of a cancer which she had 12 years, 
and nobody but her woman, an apothecary, and an old 
woman who undertook the cure, knew anything of it, 
not even Mrs. Bramston, till the day she died. She has 
left Mrs. Bramston but one thousand pound, which con- 
sidering an attachment of 40 years, and that Mrs. B.'s 
circumstances are no way equal to the way of living she 
has been used to, is very little ; she had about 10,000 
in her power. Her house in the country, and 400 a-year 
comes to Lord Cowper; and her house in town to a 
nephew of general Eliot's. 

Mr. Walpole has got a silver bell, the workmanship 
by Celini Benvenuto, whose life has been lately published ; 
the work of this cup is exquisite. 



1 Lady Frances Elliot, widow of General Elliot, and sister of Henry Nassau 
d'Auverquerque, 1st Earl of Gran tham, and of Henrietta, first wife of William, 
2nd Earl Cowper. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 425 

Mrs. Delany to the Rev. Jvhn Dewes. 

St. James's Place, 21 May, 1772. 

I should have answered your letter, my dear nephew, 
by the return of the post, but postponed it till I had 
enquired about lottery tickets ; none are to be had at 
prime cost, and the market price is not above 12 or 13 
shillings, so that I suppose the sooner you give orders 
for it to be bought the better. 

I am much obliged to my brother for his kind present 
of cheeses, ham, and pigs' chaps, which would have better 
relish could I receive a better account of his health. It 
is always mortifying to be at a distance from friends, but 
when they are not well it encreases one's anxiety. My 
fervent wishes and prayers attend him, and his kindness 
to you all is a great consolation to me ! I suppose you 
will soon have " our Mary " in your neighbourhood. I 
should have been glad to have seen her and her little babe 
had it been proper and convenient, but this time of year 
makes London not inviting. I desired Mr. C. Dewes to get 
the books my brother wrote for, and he gave them to Mr. 
Weston. I hope Rousseau's print will also arrive safe. 

I thought I had put Lord Chatham's name to his 
verses, but by your being at a loss to know who it is that 
writes one thing and thinks another, I suppose I did not. 
I am glad you are so intimate with Eollin; 1 he was 
always a great favorite of mine, but I must chew the cud 
of what I have read, for my eyes are so dim 2 1 can hardly 

1 Charles Eollin, the historian, bom in Paris 1661, died 1741. His chief 
works were, " On the Manner of Studying and Teaching the Belles Lettres," 
" Ancient History," and " Roman History." 

2 The dimness here spoken of must have been temporary, as the marvel- 
lous works executed by Mrs. Delany much later, prove her eye sight to have 
been uncommonly good. 



426 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

read the largest print by candlelight with my spec- 
tacles. I enclose you a curious letter that does honour 
to my Lord Chesterfield ; he declines very fast, and is now 
sensible how insufficient all human honours are : a con- 
science void of offence would be a better support to him. 
I had a visit not long ago from Lady Chesterf., she 
thought him then much better, but is worse again. I 
am much obliged to those who find time to visit me, as 
I never pay them in kind, I only go to a sick friend by 
appointment, hardly ever go even to Whitehall, but the 
Dss. comes to me generally for an hour or two every 
evening. 

Mr. Kirkham has not been heard of since I received 
my brother's letter, tho' strict enquiry has been made 
after him. 

Mr. and Mrs. Mills called here the day before yester- 
day, and I was gone to the Museum with the Dss. 
of Portland, and they are gone to Bath. Last Monday 
I dined at Foley House (the only day this winter), your 
brothers were invited to meet me ; he thinks he has 
found great benefit from his doctor, and looks in very 
good health. F. Poley has won at Newmarket, which 
those that wish him well are rather sorry for I wish it 
may be attended with the same prudent resolution as 
Mr. Thynnes, (if he does but hold) who has won this 
year so considerably that he has paid off all his debts, 
bought a house and furnish'd it, disposed of his horses, 
hounds, &c., and struck his name out of all expensive sub- 
scriptions. But what a horrid re/lection must it be to 
an honest mind to build his fortune on the ruin of 
others ! 

I don't hear a word of news. Diversions, roucje, and 



OF MKS. DELANY. 427 

every fantastick fashion in male and female daily mul- 
tiply. Those who have mediocre fortunes grumble at the 
dearness of everything, and the poor are in a miserable 
plight. Lord Tyrconel soon to be married to Lady 
Frances Manners. 1 Lord Polwarth 2 'tis said is making 
his addresses to Lady Bell. Grey, with an immense for- 
tune. Lady Betty Worseley 3 I fear is foolishly married 
to Tom Hervey's natural son by Lady Hanmer, 12 years 
younger than herself, and little or no fortune. My 
eyes are weary, and my hand unsteady. Adieu. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany, at Sill HiU. 

Eiifield, Wensday, (1772.) 

A thousand thanks (once more) to my dear kind 
friend, for all her favours and goodness to me. That of 
a letter with my breakfast was a very pleasant addition ; 
as I am quite satisfy'd now, that you are not the worse 
for being so much better to me than I can ever suf- 
ficiently acknowledge ; my eyes told you very true that I 
had a secret anxiety upon this subject ! Routing out early 
and fasting, a cart (in the way) and a glass breaking, a 
dusty tiresome road, a day without recess and retirement, 
a journey again, and alone in the evening; all this I 

1 The Earl of Tyrconnel married, 9th July, 1772, Lady Frances Manners, 
daughter of the Marquis of Granby. 

2 Alexander, Lord Polwarth, son of Hugh, 3rd Earl of Marchmont, married 
Amabel, Baroness Lucas in her own right, and Countess de Grey by creation 
in 1816. She was daughter of Philip, Earl of Hardwicke, Lord Chancellor. 

3 "Lady Betty Worsley." Elizabeth, daughter of John, Earl of Cork and 
Orrery, married, in 1749, Sir Thomas Worsley of Appuldercombe, Sir Thomas 
died 23rd Sept., 1768, and Lady Elizabeth on the 16th Jan., 1800. It docs 
not appear that she married a second time. 



428 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

was afraid might not agree with y r spirits ; but you 
assure me you are quite well, and I wish it too much 
not to be strongly inclin'd to believe it. Be pleas'd, 
however, when you are at leisure at Bill Hill to repeat 
the good news, for I can never hear it too often. 

I must tell you how I long'd to fetch you back again, 
and why, (for unless I give you a very good reason the 
desire itself is so improbable you wou'd not believe it.) 
After we parted I return'd home, and not finding my 
young companions, I trotted on in pursuit of them, and 
found them and my Mrs. Smith in Mr. Breton's park, 
took Fanny into my chaise, and bro 1 her home ; still 
the sun was not set, so she and I set out a walking we 
knew not whither. After traversing the churchyard 
and reading the tomb-stones, I had a mind to explore an 
old house, w 011 is here call'd " Queen Elizabeth's house." 1 
I went in, and doubtless arrived in her Majesty's eating 
parlour ; a large room, fretwork mosaic ceiling of old form. 
A chimney piece ditto. E. R. carv'd and crown'd, 
portcullis's, roses, and other marks of Plantaganet ! also 
a Latin distich over the chim. -piece, w cb I believe was 



1 Camden says : " Enfield, a royal seat built by Thomas Level (Knight of 
the Garter and Privy Councillor to King Henry VII.) as one may gather from 
the arms ; near which is a place clothed with green trees, and famous for deer- 
hunting, Enfield Chace, formerly in the possession of the Magnavilles, Earls 
of Essex, and then of the Bohuns, their successors ; but it now belongs to 
the Duchy of Lancaster, ever since Henry IV., King of England, married a 
daughter and coheir of the last Humphrey Bohun. Almost in the middle of 
this Chace are still (1607) the ruins of an ancient house which the common 
people, from tradition, affirm to have belonged to the Magnavilles, Earls of 
Essex." Gibson's " Britannia," Ed. 1772. The " Geography of Great Britain " 
mentions an ancient palace in the town of Enfield, where Edward VI. is said 
to have held his court. The initials " E. R." Avore more likely to be his than 
those of his sister, Queen Elizabeth. Eufield Chace was finally disforested in 
1779. 



OF MBS. DELANY. 429 



her Majesty's own composing, but Mr. George not being 
with me, I cannot tell you exactly the words, much less 
the sense. Well, this is not all, nor what I wanted to 
fetch you back to see ; no ! The sight was an immense 
cedar of Lebanon, so strait, so tall, so vast, that I ques- 
tion very much whether ever you saw its equal ; those at 
Chiswick are not, no more than the famous one at L d 
Portmore's at Weybridge. And now I think I have 
given you a very good reason why I wanted to fetch 
you back, viz. to see Qu. Elizab th cedar of Lebanon, 
and for that purpose only I shall be often wishing you 
were here. That it will be a great pleasure to me, 
(nevertheless,) to hear of y r health elsewhere, I am 
sure I need not repeat, for I cannot be otherwise than 
your very 

Affectionate and gratefull servant, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 

I am vastly glad to hear L y W.'s nursery goes on 
well. I have a lett r from Bad n to-day : little Wor- 
cester is recover' d, I thank Grod ! Fanny is much yours, 
and George you have purchased for life with y r notice 
and bounty. Take great care of y r health; I hope 
you will see the Duchess perfectly well, after her Kentish 
excursion. My best respects wait on her. 



Mrs. Delany to the Viscountess Andover. 

St. James's Place, 6 June, 1772. 

Most assuredly I had not waited for a letter from my 
dear Lady Andover, (a favour I hardly hoped for till I 
had challenged it,) but that I have met with hurries and 



430 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

turmoiles, w ch though not such as touch the tenderest 
strings, were sufficient to discompose my body and 
mind; such as domestick changes, paying bills, and 
(Vulgarly speaking,) " winding up affairs " in order to pass 
from the Wilder-ness to the Land of Promise. This may 
be taken in more senses than one, and I am sure will 
be accepted by my kind indulgent friend, as an excuse 
for not instantly acknowledging her kind letter from 

I Elford. 

On Tuesday next, please God, I go with the best of 
friends to the most delightfull of places, where I should 
possess more happiness, were I not too conscious of my 
own inabillity of adding even a mite of entertainment, 
so enfeebled do I find myself ! However, I will hope that 
I may revive in so much sunshine. Here I have been 
interrupted by the most impertiment, troublesome, prating 
man in the world, Mr. Dalton by name, who has vases, 
pictures, &c. &c. &c. to dispose of "the finest that ever 
was seen ! amazingly cheap !" though extravagantly dear, 
and not to be parted with, " but to oblige her Grace, who is 
such a connoisseur ! such an encourager of virtu in all its 
branches /" and much more than I can say, or y r lady- 
ship can desire to hear. To make amends for this stuff, 
I think I may assure you our dear friend is pure well, 
but a little enveloped with business on her changing 

places. Tunbridge I believe will take place about a 
fortnight hence, and from thence to Weymouth, and I 
shall spend that time, (if in tolerable spirits,) between 
London and Bill Hill. Next week Mr. Soames Jenyns 1 
and Mr. Fred. Montagu spend two or three days at Bul- 

1 Mr. Soame Jenyns, born in London, 1704, died 1787. He held the 
office of a Commissioner of the Board of Trade for 25 years, but was best 
known as an author, a wit, and a shrewd observer of manners. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 431 

strode, and the beginning of the week after Lord Guilford. 
Apropos, if you have not read a short pamphlet, entitled 
" A Scheme for a Coalition of Parties," said to be written 
by Soames Jenyns, I beg you will. Tho' I start at a 
political pamphlet, I read that with pleasure. I will 
obey y r lady p8 commands about the drawings, most 
certainly every stroke of y r pencil will be precious to the 
Dss of P., and if you ever make a false one, and throw 
it by, let it be destined to 

Y r ever obliged affec te and obed*, 

M. DELANY. 

May I beg my love to Miss H. and sweet Lady M. 

I have a million of thanks to return you, and Miss 
F. H d , for your goodness in coming so often to my fire- 
side. I have miss'd you saddly. ! that Elford was 
as near Bulstrode as Beaconsfield. 

Would it be possible to obtain a prebend of Litchfield 
for my youngest nephew ? Though of small value, (as 
to income,) it is at this time particularly desireable ? I 
ask'd it of the Bishop of Litchfield, he said he was then 
engaged : but I know if Lord Suffolk would be so good 
as to recommend it, it might soon take place. 

I am sure you will do what is kind and proper, and 
I shall be satisfied ; if you chuse to answer my P. S. beg 
you will direct it to me at Bulstrode near Gerrards Cross 
Bucks, all other letters to Whitehall or St. James's Place, 
for they come under the Dss's covers. 

It appears that about this time Mr. Granville, although pre- 
viously very unwilling to part with his nephew, thought it his 
duty to recommend him for preferment, and in a letter to the 



432 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Duchess of Portland he asks her to show what he writes to the 
Archbishop of York, to request that his Grace would ask the 
Bishop of Lichfield for the first vacant Prebend that fell in, that 
their value was small, but that he had a prospect of a living in 
the neighbourhood. That his character and behaviour in his 
vocation, as well as in his private life, had been unexceptionable, 
which in those days was very rare, and that after having served 
in Warwickshire for four years, he had been obliged to recall 
him in consequence of his own severe illness, during which time 
he had served the cure of the parish in such a manner that the 
" parishioners adored him ;" that he had found " an abandoned 
church," which was then so crowded there was scarcely room for 
the congregation, as people came four and five miles round to 
hear him, and that his attendance on the sick, with every other 
part of the duty of a clergyman, could not be exceeded, and that 
his character and conduct in Warwickshire was well known. He 
concludes with saying that if the Duchess would comply with his 
desire, she would have his dying prayers for her own prosperity 
and that of her family. 

On the 9th of June, 1772, Mr. Rupert Barber wrote from 
Ireland to Mrs. Delany as follows 

MADAM, 

As your last letter to me was an order to distribute your 
bounty to your poor pensioners, I saw no necessity to trouble 
you with an answer ; I obeyed your commands exactly, and the 
Kilfoyles, with the rest, are made perfectly happy. As this letter 
relates chiefly to my own affairs, I must entreat your pardon for 
troubling you on that head !" 

Mr. Rupert Barber then proceeds to give an account of his 
affairs, and among other matters mentions his having unfor- 
tunately been persuaded to engage, with a very artful person, in 
a distillery, when he soon found that he had been entirely 
deceived, and was loaded with a heavy debt which had been 
incurred by his partner ; but that his credit was so good at the 
bank of Sir Annesloy Stewart that they had given him time to 



OF MRS. DELANY. 433 

repay it without having the least security or even a bond ; that 
he had paid everything off to within 700?., which they were now 
anxious to have repaid, knowing him to be in better circum- 
stances ; that he could raise the money immediately by the sale 
of a lease under the Bishop of Clogher, but that it would be a 
great injury to his family to sell that lease, and he therefore 
requests Mrs. Delany to lend him the TOO/., knowing that she 
had a considerable sum of money in Gleadow's Bank, Govern- 
ment debentures, which only paid four per cent., and that he 
would be glad to pay the legal interest of six per cent, and to 
pay the principal by instalments, in three years. He adds that 
the Valentia cause engaged the Judges and Chancellor during 
the whole of the last term, and that consequently the cause in 
which Mrs. Delany was interested, and which had been unde- 
cided at the Dean of Down's death, had not stirred one step. 



r .' * The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, June 20th, 1772. 

I have had the satisfaction to hear of your health, my 
dear madam, and I have no doubt of your content ; so 
that there remains nothing for me to enquire after : but 
I think you bid me write to you. Dating from hence I 
must excite y r pity, not that I suppose you can guess in 
the shades of Bulstrode how hot and dusty and odious it 
is to live in the streets of London. It us'd to be a great 
relief to me to walk or sit in Kew Gardens, or to go to buy 
my own peas in the King's Road, sitting under a spread- 
ing apple-tree, while they ty'd me up a nosegay : but 
now all these rural amusements are deny'd, by the clouds 
of dust that obstruct the pursuit of them, so that, when 
I am wise, I sit still in my dressing room, but I was 



434 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

very foolish last Monday morning and went to a friend's 
house in Old Palace Yard to see the knights and squires 
pass, 1 w ch could not be done, you may believe, without 
some difficulty in getting there, and some ennui in 
waiting. 

The ball at night was a furnace by means of lamps of 
various hues, whose beauty made but little amends for 
their excessive heat ; of this, you may be sure, I did not 
partake, but spent the evening very agreeably at Knights- 
bridge with Mr. and Mrs. Jenyns, 2 and talk'd of Bui- 
strode, where they had pass'd two or three delightful 
days, as they both declared with gratitude. They were 
equally surpriz'd and pleas'd with Mrs. Pitt's domaine, 
and Mr. J. said some very pleasant things upon the 
occasion. These (my neighbours) departed for Cam- 
bridgeshire this morning. T do not know any news. 
There seem'd to be a great drawing room to attend Lord 
North's investiture yesterday. 3 Lord Aylesford* I heard 
had a great escape in Lord Hyde's Park : he was put to 
drive himself in a cabriolet, the horse ran away with 
him, and escaping pits and trees at last overturn'd him 



1 On the 15th of June, 1772, there was an installation of fifteen Knights of 
the Bath, who met in the Prince's chamber at Westminster, with the Knights 
Companions iu the full habit of their order, the Knights elect in their surcoats, 
mantles and spurs, each attended by three esquires, from whence they went 
in procession to Henry Seventh's Chapel, in Westminster Abbey, where they 
were installed with the usual ceremony. At night there was a magnificent 
ball and supper at the opera-house iu the Hayrnarket, at the expense of the 
new Knighta. 

2 Soame Jenyns, of Px>ttesham Hall, Esq., was the only son of Sir Roger 
Jenyns, Knight. Mr. Jenyns was a distinguished wit and scholar. He was 

. twice married, but died childless. Sarah Jenyns, the celebrated Duchess of 
Marlborough, was of this family. 

3 In 1772 Lord North was elected Chancellor of the University of Oxford. 

4 Iloncage, 3rd Earl of Aylesford. He died May 9th, 1777. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 435 

upon a heap of flints w ch cut his face near the eye, but 
not materially. I think the Duchess of Portland will 
not hear this article without exclaiming : " / hate those 
Whisky s /" I have the honour to be of her Grace's opi- 
nion, and one trembles to think of such a pere de famille 
having such a hair-breadth scape. Lady Albemarle's 
father, S r J. Miller, dy'd last night of the small-pox ; so 
mix'd are the joys of this world ! it must sadly allay her 's 
in L d Bury to think he caus'd his g.-father's death, 1 for 
this old gent, it seems not having had the small pox 
was unus'd to stay in London, but waited for the deli- 
very of his daughter. I think you knew, my dear 
madam, that I have a house at Enfield, in the garden 
there is a grove to which all our wishes tend ; but till 
Wensday next y e 24 th I have no right to its refreshment. 
You may believe I shall loose no time in conveying my- 
self thither where I hope to receive your congrat 8 on our 
general jail delivery ! 

Adieu, my dear madam. I am ever 

Your affectionate servant, 

F. BOSCAWEN". 



Tlie Dowager-Countess Gower to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill, 25th June, 72. 

I am extreamly glad you c d find a motive to make 
you, d r madam, speak for yo r self, especially in a cause I'm 
so much interested in as y e seeing you here, w ch will make 



i Anne, youngest daughter of Sir John Miller, Bart., of Chichester, married 
George, 3rd Earl of Albe marie. Their son, William Charles, the 4th Earl, 
was born May 14th, 1772. 



436 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

me extreamly hapy. 'Tis a step I greatly approve of; 
from 2 d July to w* ever time you can bestow, I flatter 
myself you will bestow on me ; and let me know \v n 
and where, you w d have my post-chaise come for you. 
I hope our little fat ffriend has perform'd her long jour- 
ney well ; 'tis a great undertaking for her. I heard yes- 
terday L y Leicester was arriv'd safe and well at Hoik- 
ham. Y e great heats gave me some uneasiness for her, 
not thinking her very expert at travelling. Last post 
brought a terrible ace* of y e consternation in y e City, 
caus'd by y e bankers ; you, nor none you wish well to, 
are, I hope, affected. Avarice and extravagance, jarring 
atoms, runs thro' all degrees of people, and is y e chiefe 
motive to gaming, and of worse consequence in y e Alley 
(if possilk) y n at Almacks. Hapy are those y l are un- 
conected w th either. I'm rejoic'd to see under yo r hand 
y e D. Ds. of Portland is very well. Desire my respects 
to her Grace. 

L y Grey 1 in a family easy mailer has in form' d me of 
y e intended mariage of L y Bell Grey and L d Polwarth ; 2 
wJiere a person is born is certainly not essensual to 
hapy ness, yet I'm such an English Joan Trot as to 
lament y e three greatest fwtunes this age has produc'd 
being transplanted into Scotland ! 

1 Jemima, Marchioness Grey in her own right, was grand-daughter and 
heir of Henry Grey, last Duke of Kent, and his successor in that Marquisate 
and in the Barony of Lucas. At her death, in 1779, the Marquisate became 
extinct. She was niece to Earl Harold, Lady Gower's first husband. 

- Amabel, who succeeded her mother as Baroness Lucas, married Alexander, 
Lord Polwarth, eldest son of Hugh, Earl of Marchmont. Her husband died, 
without issue, in 1781. In 1816 she was created Countess de Grey, with 
remainder to her sister, Lady Grantham. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 437 

The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Ddany. 

Enfield, June 28th, 1772. 

How pleas'd shou'd we be, my dear madam, and how 
honour'd, if you wou'd visit us at our villa ! Business 
forbids on Monday (you say), but what of Tuesday. 
Perhaps by that time the roads wou'd be water'd for 
you, otherwise, and in all this dust and heat, I would 
not have you come upon any account. I am not so 
selfish; indeed, I should not be gratify'd in wearying 
you, so that even selfishness forbids, unless I had any 
hopes to detain you for a time, and any cool bed-chamber 
to offer you. Alas, I have not so much as a hot one till 
George goes to Winchester and resigns his, w ch will not 
be soon occupy 'd I suppose by my eldest son, who has 
disposed of himself much better at Gosfield for the pre- 
sent, and to whom this can only be a pis aller, as indeed 
it is to me, for instead of dating Enfield, I might more 
properly change the spelling to En-Ville. Houses par ci, 
houses par la, houses par tout. Not over against us 
luckily, nor exactly behind, for there is the Chase, but 
I won't set you against it for some time or other (I 
wish it may be next Tuesday). You will take this little 
journey par charite. You go to Portland Street, so to 
Islington Town, to Tottenham High Cross, to Edmon- 
ton ; there where the roads divide en fourchette, a friendly 
post says to Bushhill and Enfield Town, follow it, aim at 
the church, and ask for Lord Lisburne's house, or perhaps 
asking for Mrs. Boscawen may do. (Hitherto obscure, I 
may have acquir'd a degree of fame by that time !) I 
shall look sharp at my iron gate on Tuesday, and will 
not breakfast till 10. I am one hour and 3 quarters 

PART II. VOL. I. 2 G 



438 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

from Audley Street door to the iron gate aforesaid. You 
will be 2 hours, being something farther off from the 
Cavendish County, and may come rather slower. I am 
heartily sorry to find the Duchess of Portland has had 
any subject of anxiety, but it seems to tend to much joy 
and satisfaction. Amen, and ainsi soit il ! Lady Wey- 
mouth's good spirits are a very good sign. Pray write 
me word of the success, for I shall rejoyce in it sin- 
cerely. 

I shall want to know also whether the Duchess's jour- 
ney to Tunbridge in such uncommon bad weather has 
not disagreed with her, all w eh perhaps you will tell me 
on Tuesday. Perhaps, too, Mr. Dewes will escort you. 
You will both fast, for here is nothing good to eat not 
a strawberry (that I know of in Enfield). Citizens live 
luxuriously, they say, and citizens in abundance live at 
Enfield, but they certainly bring their luxury with them. 
However, I wish you wou'd partake the beans and bacon 
of your affectionate servant, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 

Fanny presents her respects, and joins in my petition. 
George will gather you a nosegay of his best damask 
roses. The blackbirds will sing to you. 

My friends at Badminton are well I thank you. 
Heartily glad Mrs. Port is so. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 439 



The Dowager-Countess Gower to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill, 29 June, 72. 

W th infinite pleasure I shall send my chaize in y e cool 
of y e mom to Staines, w th a sadle horse, to wait yo r time 
for proceeding hither. Pray consider all ways and means, 
to make yo r journey as little fatiguing as possible. The 
weather has lasted uncoinonly hot a long time for our 
climate, y* I natter myself it may moderate before Thurs- 
day. I wish I/ Weymouth's anxiety was over. 'Tis a 
situation of fear and perplexity, y 1 desease being liable to 
so many various turns. I take her to be of a calm tem- 
per, where reason presides, w ch will make her go thro' it 
w th less bad effects. I'll say nothing of y e D s D. of P. 
You'l answ r me all questions. I had a letter last post from 
Mrs. Mountagu, conformable to my possitive comands, 
from Melton, where she was just arriv'd. Complaints of 
y e heat and dust, and fatigue therefrom (and no'ther) as 
any person younger and stronger w^ feel. 

Conscience, I've long thought, has given over smiting, 
or else such universal injuries, both publick and private, 
c d not hapen. I envy not all they gain by it. We'll 
talk it over in this my h ble cell. In the meantime, d r 
Mrs. Delany, adieu. 



2 o 2 



410 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Dclany to tlie Eight Hon. Viscountess Andover. 

Bill Hill, near Twyford, Berks, 9 July, 1772. 

I am quite unhappy at being so long without hearing 
from dear Lady Andov r . I hope you and all you love 
are well, and that company at home, or going abroad, or 
some of your ingenious works, have not allow'd you lei- 
sure to write. I am too well assured of your lady ps 
goodness to me to attribute it to any sort of unkindness. 
I most heartily congratulate you on the recovery of all 
the little Thynnes from the small-pox, and during their 
being in a doubtful state I would not write. They have 
had it very well, and the dear Duchess of Portland gone 
to Weymouth with a contented mind. How long she 
will stay she does not at present know herself, but I be- 
lieve not much longer than a fortnight, and I have pro- 
mised to meet her at Bulstrode. 

I came to this place the 2d of July, far from being in 
a happy state of mind, as Lady Weymouth's children 
were all ill, and the distemper not come to its heigth ; 
but I had fix'd my time with Lady Gower before I knew 
they had sickened. 

I hope your lady p and Miss F. Howard, and the 
dear little prattler have enjoy'd this fine weather. 
How delightfull must the shade and sweets of y r beauti- 
full Hill be in such weather. 

I sent the measure of the drawing according to your 
ladyship's commands before I came away from Bui- 
strode, and hope it came safe. We live tranquilly here 
and unmolested by neighbours, which suits the dulness 
of my spirit very well, but indeed Lady Gower 's spirited 
conversation wants no addition to make the time pass very 



OF MBS. DELANY. 441 

agreably, I wish I were more worthy of it ; if I could 
enclose some of it I would still add to my letter, but as 
I cannot, will only say, tho' imperfectly, that I am, 
Dear Lady Andover's 

Most affectionate and 

Most obedient humble ser e , 

M. DELANY. 

My best compliments attend Miss Howard and Lady 
Maria. Hope Lord Suffolk is well. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Enfield, 14th July, (1772 ?) 

I am not quite sure you have not thought me ungrate- 
full, my dear madam, when, on the contrary I have only 
been frugal ; a virtue so rare in this age that I beg you 
will not discourage it, and tell me " I need not have waited 
for a frank." As to your gracious visit, my dear madam, 
that is impayable ; thanks are out of the question, but I 
am satisfy 'd with my sense of it. 

I heartily congratulate you on the sunshine you enjoy 
with y r noble friend at Bill Hill, and on the welcome 
messenger that dispell'd all y r clouds. 

Do you know I have been tempted to write to the 
Duchess of Portland to congratulate her on the happy 
end of her anxiety, and the recovery of her beloved g.- 
children, however, upon consideration I said " No " to my- 
self, for her Grace is so obliging and polite that she wou'd 
answer me were it ever so disagreeable and inconvenient ; 
I think it may possibly be both, to write many letters at 
Wey mouth, where her Grace's ecritoire is certainly not 



442 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

montee de la belle maniere. I will not interrupt her 
enjoyment of that glorious ocean she is so fond of, (and 
that I us'd to delight in beyond all sights and all objects 
whatever). 

Our precious Worcester had a short relapse, but is, I 
thank God, again recover'd, and so perfectly that I had a 
very cheerfull letter from his mother this morning. She 
had got Mr. and Mrs. Southwell with her at Badmin. 
All have been afflicted with certain Tetbury races, w ch in 
weather like this do require & considerable share of patience 
and good humour to hold out thro' the ven'son dinner, 
the broiling tedious races, and the stewing stifling balls, 
doing the honours of all, and smiling and smirking thro' 
the day ! We meantime in our obscure tranquility visit 
our cedar of Lebanon, or sit in our own grove, or take 
our airings upon the Chace, or do just what we please ; 
and we please to read a good deal, and work a little. I 
have been to Lon n for a few hours just to see my boy 
safe on his way to college, and just to endear this Enville 
to me by the sight and smell of the other. I do not 
think I ever saw London so odious, so aparently si 
deserte; and the brick kilns, and the dust, oh it is 
beyond all description. My neighbour Miss Leveson is 
in town, w ch you may believe amaz'd me, when I knew 
she might be at Bill Hill ; I heard Lady Gower say she 
had invited her. Her ladyship does us a great deal of 
honour to mention us favorably, and Miss B. has other 
obligations to her bounty of which she is very sensible, 
and takes a great deal of care that they shall be well 
apply'd. The post to-day tells me of a marriage in our 
family, but as it is not anmuncd to me I know noirif I 
may depend upon it ; that Mr. Frederick, eldest son of 



OF MRS. DELANY, 443 

S r Charles, and of my sister 1 (that is Admiral Boscawen's), 
is going to be marry'd to Miss Howard, only child of 
Mr. Howard of Ashtead, who is Lord Suffolk's uncle. 3 
I fancy it must be a good marriage for the young man, 
who is in the Guards, and therefore wonder my sister 
has not told me of it. I hear also that L d Lyttelton's 
son 3 has persuaded a very rich (and very worthy) East 
Indian widow, who has bo 1 the Leasowes,* (a Mrs. Pearch 
or Peach) to take him with all his faults ; it is to be hop'd 
she will help him to amend them, for 'tis so great a work 
that he will want assistance. I am glad of any good 
that happens to my lord, but having heard a respectable 
character of the woman, one is rather in pain for her 
rashness ! Adieu, my dear madam. You see I did well 
to get a frank as I have wrote a bushell. You are not 
oblig'd to read it, at least not all at one dose, but be sure 
do not leave out the sincere wishes we form for your 
health and happiness. Continuance of good news from 
Ham, Rotterdam, Weymouth, every place where your 
own are concern'd, and believe me ever, my dear friend, 
Most gratefully 

And affectionately yours, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 

1 Sir Charles Frederick, K.B., Surveyor-General of the Ordnance, and his 
wife Lucy, daughter of Hugh Boscawen, 1st Lord Falmouth, had three sons 
and two daughters. The eldest sou, Charles, born in 1748, is not recorded by 
Burke to have married at all. 

2 Lord Suffolk's uncle, Mr. Howard, was subsequently 14th Earl of Suffolk 
and 7th of Berkshire. His only child, Diana, married, in 1782, Sir Michael 
le Fleming, Bart., of Eydal, Westmoreland. 

9 Thomas, 2nd Lord Lyttleton, married, during his father's lifetime, Aphia, 
widow of Joseph Peach, Governor of Calcutta. 

* The paternal inheritance of Shenstone, the poet, who died in 1763. A 
"Description of the Leasowes," by R. Dodsley, is prefixed to Shenstone's 
Poems. 



444 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

My dau r (you observe) joins me in every good wish to 
you, and thanks for y e " alamode" 

I have measured the cedar I told you of, it is nine feet 
3 inches in circumference. 



The Duchess of Portland to Mrs. Delany. 

Weymouth, July 19th, 1772. 

How happy my dearest friend made me by her delight- 
full letter, you can easier guess than I express. I re- 
turned last Saturday from Mr. SeymerV at Hanford, he 
inquired much after you ; he and Mrs. Seymer expressed 
such concern that they had not the pleasure of being 
introduced to you till a day or two before they left Bath. 
They are exceeding good sort of people, very obliging 
and good-humoured, and he is as generous as a prince, 
has given me fosils and butterflys without end, and I 
hope to improve by his instructions. I begin to have 
the mal du pais, and am greatly impatient to get home, 
and I purpose to set out on Tuesday, and if it is in my 
power perhaps may call at Bill Hill on Thursday, stay 
one night ; and beg you will make my best comp te to 
Lady Gower, and to assure her I am always glad of an 
opportunity of waiting on her, and that if it is in my 
power will certainly call on her on Thursday, and am 
very sorry I shall not be able to stay but one night. I 
hope my dearest friend is well, and as you seem in spirits, 
I flatter myself it is so. I was delighted with your letter, 



1 Henry Seymer, of Hanford, Esq., near Blandford, Dorsetshire. He \v:is 
a naturalist, entomologist, conchologist, and mineralogist, and his cabinets 
of shells were very rich. He died 13th July, 1785. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 445 

I have been packing twenty kinds of sea-plants, besides 
sea-weeds, so that I am as busy as possible. 

My neighbours are very good to me. But ! my 
dearest friend how happy I am the time draws so near 
for our meeting. I hope to have laid in such a stock of 
health as not to take any more journeys this year but to 
Wroxton, and that will be only one day. 



Duchess Dowager of Portland to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

Bulstrode, July 20th, 1772. 

I have been unwilling to trouble dear Mrs. Port, 
with a dull letter which has prevented me so long re- 
turning you thanks for the favour of yours, but as I can 
have the pleasure to inform you of the health of some of 
your friends, it may make a dull letter acceptable. Mrs. 
Bavaud is in very good spirits and in better health than 
when we saw her last year, and I wish the sea air, (as 
she don't intend to bathe,) will be as efficacious to her 
health as it has been to mine. I hope to-morrow to see 
dear Mrs. Delany, and that I shall have the joy and 
comfort of bringing her back with me on Wednesday. 
I natter myself you enjoy perfect health, as well as Mr. 
Port, to whom I beg my best compliments, and to your 
little daughter. 

I am, dear madam, 

Your faithful and obedient servant, 

M. C. PORTLAND. 



446 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The Dowager-Countess Gower to Mrs. Dclany. 

Bill Hill, 9fc Aug., 72. 

You was most obliging, d r madam, in giving me y c 
satisfaction of knowing y* you, and y e D 8 of Portland 
got well to Bullstrode, and I hope not much annoy 'd by 
heat and dust ; for her's and yo r goodness to me merited 
reward, y e very bees thought so, by swarming in her 
road. I'm delighted w th y e incident, pleasing myself w th 
y e thought y 1 it made y e way seem shorter ; beg my best 
respects to her Grace, for her kind inquiries, &c. &c. 
I'm certainly better, y e fury of y e disorder is nigh spent, 
and if y e ground was something softer, I w d endeavour 
oftener to try w* I've been told, " y 4 a Horse is y e best 
physician, and an ass y e best apothecary." Y e last I 
regularly apply too, no weather interupts. 

I met Mrs. T. in a vissit, quite absorb'd in y e Wilt- 
sliire controverted election : if graces and volubility will 
carry it, Mr. Herbert stands a bad chance, 'tis computed 
'twill cost him ten thousand pounds, wether he succeeds 
or not. 

If you told me y e distress'd people's names, and their 
particular case, I've quite forgot it. I remember upon 
y e whole a dismal story, it called for attention and reliefe ; 
must desire y e too first particulars, believing it necessary 
to be very plain and exact in executing a trust. Don't 
have any qualms ab* postage, 'tis y c only part I contri- 
bute too, for all y e fine things y 1 are said to me on these 
occasions. I have begun y e waters, in a very gentle 
maner, find no ill effect from y, hope for great benefit. 
Sick, or well, ever most faithfully y re . 



OF MRS. DELANY. 447 



Mrs. Delany to the Right Hon. Viscountess Andover. 

Bulstrode, 16th Aug., 1772. 

Have not I been very good to you, my dear Lady 
Andover, to leave you the peaceful enjoyment of your 
shade and sunshine, your pencil and your book, without 
interrupting you with an insignificant letter, but finding 
I must suffer by it, by not hearing from your ladyship, my 
modesty gives way to the earnest desire I have of know- 
ing how you do, and all those you love. I hope the 
heat of the weather has not continued to have the same 
effect as at first ; it is no wonder such a sudden change 
of climate should too much relax tender nerves having 
been for some years past under the frigid zone. 

Our dear friend, I thank God, has brought charming 
health and spirits from Weymouth, and desires her kind 
love to you. To-morrow we set out for Wroxton, and 
return on Friday ; I feel a reluctance in being so far 
from home ; but being so kindly solicited and travelling 
in so easy a way has conquered my scruples. I must now 
rejoyce with y r ladyship on Lord Dartmouth's * appoint- 
ments, it must give pleasure to all his friends, and does 
honour to those who distinguish his merit. We have 
had but few interlopers since we returned to Bulstrode, 
and all our occupations have gone on. We devote as 
much of our time to the garden as we can, and by the 
addition last week of a glorious moon were hardly sensible 
how much the days have shortened, but every season 



1 " The Eight Hon. William, Earl of Dartmouth, was appointed one of His 
Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, Aug. 14th, 1772, and on the 31st of 
August, First Lord of Trade and Plantations." 



448 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

brings its amusement, and our works and books reconciles 
us to candlelight. The Dss. of Portland has not this 
summer been edified by Mr. LightfootV lectures ; he is 
sailing over lakes, traversing islands-, clambering rocks, 
&c. &c., among the Western Isles of Scotland, in order 
to lay his prizes at her Grace's feet next Michaelmass. 

At present I believe Lord Lytelton is one of the 
happiest men in England, and if his virtues can make 
up for the absence of them in his son, Mrs. Lytelton 2 
may be a happy woman, but the chance is much against 
her, which is pity, for everybody says she is good and 
agreable. 

My best complim te attend Miss F. Howard and dear 
little Lady M., the same to L d Suffolk, if within y r walls. 
I am ever y r ladyship's most affect 6 

And most obed* 
M. DEL ANY. 



The Dowager Countess Oower to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill, 16th Aug., 72. 

Inclos'd is a dra* for one hundred pound, payable to 
Mrs. Sandford (or order), for y e benefit of Mrs. Shuckbo- 
rough. W n you write pray assure Mrs. S. of my sincere 
congratulations on her son's recovery. I w d return her 
a letter, but have ne'er a ffrank left. Direct this to 



1 The Rev. John Lightfoot, born at Newent in 1735, rector of Sheldon, in 
Hampshire, and afterwards of Gotham and Sutton, in Nottinghamshire. He 
was a Fellow of the Royal and Linnsean Societies, published the "Flora 
Scotica," in 2 vols., and drew up a catalogue of the Duchess of Portland's 
Museum. He died in 1788, and his Herbarium was purchased by George IJT. 

2 The Hon. Mr. Lyttleton, only son of Lord Lyttleton, married, July 8, 
1772, Mrs. Peach, widow of the late Col. Peach. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 449 

Whitehall, hoping it will catch you on yo r way to Wrox- 
ton; 1 if it does not, conclude there 'twill be taken care 
of. No letters have come here for you since you left 
me. I sh d w th infinite pleasure follow y e D s of P. pre- 
scription, tho' I'm better as to y e cough, yet certainly 
have somthing of y* humour called S' Ant s ffire flying 
ab* me ; it has show'd more outwardly since I drank this 
water, probably y e cause of y e cough going off. If it 
continues to agree w th me I'm to drink it six weeks at 
least. Besides these lions in y e way, I have an iniovable 
one age. I feel so old y* its impossible to stir from 
home. Sorry I am you sh d be affected by my superan- 
uation, and give you y e trouble of writing w* I ought to 
have remember'd. Adieu, d r madam. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Ddany. 

Enfield, Aug. 21st, 1772. 

I wou'd not have my dear Mrs. Delany forget her 
friend at Enfield ! How has the hot weather agreed 
with you? perfectly I hope, and shall be glad to hear 
so, as well as that the Duchess's health is just in the 
state you wish it. Her Grace honor'd me with a most 
kind letter : I was extremely sensible of her goodness, 
which I endeavour'd to express by the return of the 
post. 

I observ'd in the news papers to-day that a gentleman 
is dead at his house upon Uxbridge Common ; I will not 
wish myself his heir, but I shall be glad lawfully to suc- 

1 Wroxton Abbey, near Baubury, the seat of Lord North. 



450 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

ceed to his dwelling ; meantime I am going to sec one 
upon Mill Hill (far enough from Uxbridge), w ch is re- 
commended to me by a new acquaintance, whom I like 
mightily, and not the less for his having a great respect 
for you. It is Mr. Burrow (the Eev d .), who preaches at 
Berkeley Chapel. He seems to know you, tho' not so much 
as he wishes perhaps, and as I guess by means of Mrs. 
Chapone and that family, with whom he is very intimate. 
He lives on the other side of Enfield Chace at Hadley, 
of which he is minister. We have seen him three or 
four times ; a great acquisition to our neighbourhood, 
and sometimes we treat ourselves with Hadley Church 
of a Sunday morning instead of Enfield ; the difference is 
very great, and the drive across the Chace very pleasant. 

We have another new neighbour since I wrote to you, 
Lady Mayne; 1 she has a charming place at Southgate, 
to w ch one goes also thro' the Chace. This dry summer 
has made good roads where there used to be bad ones 
We have had a visit from our friend Captain Wallis, 2 
who has been sent for out of Cornwall by Lord Sand- 
wich 3 to contribute his quota of materials for the history 
that Dr. Hawksworth 4 is compiling of circumnaviga- 
tion. 

We are reading the works of a traveller by land, 
w cb suit me better than voyages by sea (alass !) ; a Mr. 



1 The Hon. Frances Allen, daughter of Joshua, 2nd Viscount Allen, married, 
in 1758, Sir William Mayne, Bart., of Marston Mortain, who was, in 1776, 
created Baron Newhaven. 

1 The celebrated navigator. 

8 John Montagu, 4th Earl of Sandwich, who was at that time First Lord 
of the Admiralty. 

3 John Hawkesworth, LL.D., author of the " Adventurer." The compila- 
tion of voyages here alluded to is well known. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 451 

Marshall l has publish'd his journey thro' Holland, Flan- 
ders, Germany, and the northern parts of Europe ; it is 
very entertaining sometimes, and sometimes only in- 
structive, upon commerce, politics, agriculture, &c. I 
have purchas'd another traveller, who comes to England 
and calls his perigrinations " Londres." It promised to 
divert us, but my son ran away with it before we had 
made any progress, and has not restor'd it ; but we ex- 
pect him (my son) to-day to make us what he calls a 
long visit before he goes into Cornwall, at the desire of 
Mons r notre Vicomte. 2 

I do not know the least syllable of news. Miss Try on 
din'd with me yesterday ; she seemed to allow that her 
royal mistress was with child, but that is no news at all, 
an event of the year of course. 

I believe I may present my congratulations on the 
heavy rain now falling, it will do good to the plants. 
Swamps are quite out of the question I should think, 
and only the families w ch delight in rocks can thrive. 
My best respects wait on the Duchess ; my daug r begs 
hers. Ever, my dear madam, 

Affect, yours, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 

The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Enfield. Saturday, 5th Sept., 1772. 

What a charming letter have I got from my dearest 
Mrs. Delany, dated 30th August, and perhaps you 
think I have taken up my pen to answer it ; not I in- 



1 William Marshall, a well-known writer upon agriculture and rural 
economy. 

2 Hugh, 2nd Viscount Falmouth, Mrs. Boscawen's brother-in-law. 



452 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

deed ! There are much pleasanter ways of answering 
than with a pen. I hope to answer de vive voix next 
Friday the llth, when I am to have the honour and 
pleasure of paying my respects to the Duchess of Port- 
land. I think her Grace's hour of dinner is 4, but I 
shall probably make you a visit, dear madam, half an 
hour sooner, and appear at your toilette ! 

You are going to have a royal guest the Duchess 
tells me, and I wish her Highness may have good wea- 
ther ; tho* probably she is very indifferent about it, as her 
visit is to the mistress of Bulstrode, and not to Bui- 
strode, whose charms she is so well acquainted with. 
The cave is however new, and many other beauties, per- 
haps, that I am not aware of, as I have not seen it since 
1768 happier days ! 

I am in pain for Lady Beaulieu, 1 and have thought of 
her continually since I read a newspaper yesterday that 
says Miss Montagu is dead ! The addition of " Isabella " 
makes me fear it is her daughter: I should be very 
thankfull to any body that wou'd contradict it, for the 
loss must be terrible to her, poor woman ! who never 
tasted any thing of the like kind before. Her husband 
she did not regret, father and mother left her only to 
lament their unkindness, so that she has lived threescore 
years without knowing what that grief is which exceeds 
all other pains, and will probably overwhelm her ! Her 
daughter must have been 20 years old. 

My dear madam, shou'd any thing retard the Prin- 



1 Isabella, daughter of John, Duke of Montagu, married, first, William, 
2nd Duke of Manchester, by whom she had no child, and secondly, Edward 
llussey, Esq., who assumed the name of Montagu, and was created Earl of 
Beaulieu. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 453 

cess's visit to the Duchess, her Grace will be pleased to 
send me a messenger. They tell me 'tis but 18 miles 
from Enfield to Uxbridge cross the country, but my 
march will be thro' London, as I don't love to explore 
unknown roads. Mrs. Walsingham * tells me the 
Duchess, &c., has made a delightful one from Bulstrode 
to Windsor. If I can contrive it I must visit her after 
I have enjoyed my pleasant day with you. As to the 
house upon Uxbridge Common, I think I can get up on 
Saturday morning, go and see it, and return just before 
the breakfast begins in the gallery, mais nous verrons, and 
mean while I think of Friday y e 11 th with great plea- 
sure. My best respects wait on the Duchess. 

I am most affectionately yours, 

F. B. 

T have just rece d a letter from Lady Edgcumbe, 2 who 
has been very ill of a bilious fever, but is recover'd, thank 
God ! and out on horseback (for the first time) by order 
of her physician ; her illness was very violent, she says, 
tho' short. 



Mrs. Delany to the Rev. John Dewes, at Calwich. 

Bulstrode, 5th Sept., 1772. 

MY DEAR NEPHEW, 

I intended addressing this letter to my dear 
brother, but as your account gives me apprehensions it 

1 Daughter of Sir C. H. Williams (of Coldbrooke, Bt.), and wife of Admiral 
the Hon. R. Boyle Walsingham. 

2 Daughter and heir of Dr. John Gilbert, Archbishop of York, and wife of 
George, 1st Earl of Mount Edgcumbe. 

PART II. VOL. I. 2 H 



454 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

may be troublesome to him at this time, I answer your 
letter first, for which I return you many thanks. 

This has been a fine season for the enjoyment of the 
beauties of Calwich, had my brother been in a state of 
health to have permitted it to himself or friends. It has 
pleased God to order it otherwise, but I think the very 
hot weather has been rather oppressive for him. I have 
found it so, tho' I am tollerably free from any other 
complaint. The bite of the gnat (I rather think it must 
have been something more venemous), was a very trou- 
blesome affair, and came at an unlucky time, for I was 
not able to walk at Wroxton, and in so much pain (which 
made me very feverish), that I could not enjoy the place, 
tho' L d Ghiilford's kind attention and politeness made it 
as easy as it would admit of; it is now pretty well 
again, though not yet able to wear my shoe, but a large 
slipper ; this is a long tale about such a trifling matter. 
I am glad you have received so good an account of Court, 
I hope he will return in perfect health. I was at Comp- 
ton when last at Welsbourne it is surprisingly mended, 
but cannot admit of any comparison with Wroxton, 
where nature has done everything that can be wished 
for, and is improved by the best judgement. Last 
Thursday se'night we went to breakfast at Mr. Waller's 
at Beconsfield to see the place, which for some years has 
been unregarded, tho' formerly a place everybody went 
to see. I could only drive about a little in the chaise, 
but I think it charming for what there is of it, and capa- 
ble of much improvement, which Mrs. Waller, (who seems 
to delight in it,) is going to undertake, or at least she 
means to spirit up Mr. Waller to do justice to the place. 
I hear no news. Lord Litchfield, who was reported dead, 



OF MRS. DELANY. 455 

is alive, and they say better. Miss Montagu, an only 
daughter to Lord and Lady Beaulieu, (Dss. of Manches- 
ter that was) is dead, 1 which everybody that knew her 
laments ; and pities her mother, who doated on her. I 
begun this letter last post, but a little busyness carried 
the Dss. of Portland to town for a day, and I took y e 
opportunity of settling some little matters at my own 
home ; we returned last night and are now preparing to 
receive a visit next Thursday from the Princess Amelia, 
who has sent word she will dine here. I enclose some 
verses which perhaps you may not have seen, if you 
have, excuse my troubling you with them. 
My love and best wishes to" your uncle. 

I am very anxious to receive better accounts from 
Calwich. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

Bulstrode, 14th Sept., 1772. 

A gracious visit from her E. H. Princess Amelia, 2 has 
made some little disturbance even in this palace. All the 
comfortable sophas and great chairs, all the piramids of 
books (adorning almost every chair), all the tables and 
even the spinning-wheel were banish' d for that day, and the 
blew damask chairs set in prim form around the room, 
only one arm'd chair placed in the middle for her Royal 
Highness ; she came in a post coach and four, only 



1 The Hon. Isabella Montague, daughter of Lord Beaiilieu, died at Htm- 
gerford, Sept. 3rd, 1772. 

a Princess Amelia, second daughter of King George II. She died, unmar- 
ried, 31st Oct., 1786. 

2 H 2 



456 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

attended by two footmen and a groom ; in the coach 
with her was Lady Lothian, 1 and the lady in waiting, 
Lady Anne Noel. 2 They were here by a q r after one, 
conducted by the keeper, who met them at the end of the 
common, and were brought (not the common way,) but 
thro' " the bosom." The Dss. met her at the hall door, 
and I stood in the hall ; when the Princess had paid her 
complim* to her Grace, she came up directly to me and 
said many civil things w * I hope I answer'd properly. 
She was so easy, good-humoured and entertaining, that 
I was glad I had not absented myself. She was delighted 
with the place and her entertainment, which was magni- 
ficent and pollish'd to the last degree, yet everything 
conducted with the utmost ease. The Princess went all 
over the house and garden, but insisted upon the Dss. of 
P. and my not attending her there, only her ladies. We 
dined at three, and she had a polite attention to every 
ingenious ornament on the table, and you may be sure 
Mr. Leiver's ingenuity, &c., was not idle on the occasion. 
After dinner she would see my own apartments, and 
made me display all my frippery works, all which she 
graciously commended ; we then adjourned into the 
library, and at seven the Princess return'd to Gunners- 
bury by moonlight. The next day the Dss. of Portland 
sent to enquire how she did in a note to y e lady in wait- 
ing, and the Princess wrote a letter of thanks for the 
enquiries, and "for the delightfull day she spent at 
Bulstrode," with her own hand. This princely visit lias 
taken up an acre of ground, but here it ends. 

1 Lady Lothian. Lady Caroline D'Arcy, only daughter of RoLert, Earl of 
Holdernesse, married, in 1735, William Henry, 4th Marquess of Lothian. 
- Lady Anne Noel, daughter of Baptist Noel, 4th Earl of Gainsborough. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 457 

Mrs. and Miss Boscawen came here on Friday to 
dinner. Saturday morning they travelled away to Ux- 
bridge Common in search of a house, well recommended, 
but proved not worth having. This morning they are 
gone to see Mrs. Walsingham at Windsor, return to 
dinner, and go away to-morrow. Very well, and very 
agreable, and very kind enquiries after the dear friends 
at Ham. I have had a very satisfactory letter from 
Court, and now having a long one to write of business, 
can only add that my tender wishes and affection are 
never ceasing to all three. * 



To Miss Port, of Ham, aged 1 year, from her Aunt Delany, aged 72. 

Bulstrode, 16th Sept., 1772. 

My dearest little child, this is your birthday, and I 
wish you joy of its return ; perhaps if you knew what a 
world you are enter' d into, so abounding with evil you 
would not say " Ta " to me for my congratulation, but 
the precepts and example of your excellent parents will 
teach you how to make so good a use of the tryals you 
will necessarily meet with, that they will not only be 
supportable, but lead to a state of happiness that will 
have no alloy. This is above your understanding at pre- 
sent, and a rattle or a little squeaking cuckoo will suit 
much you better ; so for the present I leave you to your 
infantine amusements, which I shall be as ready to con- 
tribute to when I can, as I am to testifye how dearly you 

are beloved by, 

Your great 

A. D. 



458 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



The Dowager- Count ess Gower to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill, 18th Sept., 1772. 

I am greatly oblig'd to you, d r mad m , for so kindly 
enquiring after my health ; 'tis much mended, and I 
realy think I am now as well as an old woman can hope 
to be ; rise so early, and am so alert y 1 I've had thoughts 
of breakfasting at Bullstrode, and returning here before 
'tis dark; for as I'm dexterous at contrivi 8 a journey I 
know I can do this w to ease, soposing y e D s of Portland 
was w th out company (w ch seldom hapens), and, being old 
and humoursome, w^ more ease y n lying out of my own 
bed! 

The first week in the month I wrote to L d Littleton 
my excuses in a soft, tender style ; but something 
wond'rous sad, viz., y* I was so old and spiritless y* I c d 
not avail myself of y e pleasant plan he had drawn out 
for me, y e cause I expected from y e strength of poetick 
fiction he w d contradict ; instead, his ans r is cold and 
short as a dull winter s day ; says, his son 1 is from home 
(a bad sign) great encomium on his daughter-in-law. 
Mr. C. Dewes' note was most polite ; hopes for y e assist- 
ance of I/ Carysfort, 2 but Providence has otherways 
order'd it, for I had a letter from L y Mayne of y e 7 th 
ins*, to inform me of y e death of L d Carysfort, and y l 
her sister was to come immediately to England : I hope 
y e event won't distress M r . D. ? I'm sure it does not me ; 

1 Thomas, afterwards 2nd Lord Lyttleton, married Apphia Witts, widow of 
Joseph Peach, Governor of Calcutta. 

2 Elizabeth, daughter of John, 2nd Viscount Allen, and coheir of her 
brother John, the 3rd Viscount, married the Eight Hon. Sir John Proby, 
who in 1752 was created Baron Carysfort, and died, Oct. 18, 1772. 



OF MRS. DEL ANY. 459 

and I dare say he may find a madamoiselle at Lisle to 
take y e trouble of choosing off his hands. W n you 
write, praying best complim 13 to him, y* he will most 
oblige by giving himself as little trouble ab* it as pos- 
sible. L d Albemarle 1 has been on y e brink of y e grave 
of an inflamation in his bowells, symptoms of y e jaun- 
dice follow'd, y 1 was remov'd, and he recover'd enough 
to go out ; but in ab* a week he relaps'd, and was 
thought again in danger; however, I heard to day 
he is well enough to take y e air; I wish y e recovery 
may last. Pray mention me to y e D" of P. as a most 
h ble serv 1 and well-wisher to all y* is hers, and all her 
philosophical researches ; 'twou'd have sour'd anything 
but a philosopher to throw all aside for such hon re , &c. 
But while I am writing against others I myself am a 
cast-away, so farewell for this time. 



The Han. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street. 2 o'clock, (Sept., 1772.) 

MY DEAR MADAM, 

"We have had, or rather should have had, a plea- 
sant journey, if we had not been coming from Bulstrode ; 
but in that case few things appear pleasant, neither 
bright sun or soft air. Found my son, who, having 
had the precaution to get us a dinner, insists on our 
eating it with him; so we must ask pardon of our 
dinner at Enfield, and defer our arrival there till sunset. 
Your young friend has taken her walk, and gives me the 



1 George, 3rd Earl of Albemarle, died Oct. 13, 1772. 



460 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

inclos'd to present to you ; she is now gone to visit 
Lady Sefton. 1 All the news I hear is that L d Albe- 
marle 2 being relaps'd, Ad 1 Keppel 3 was sent for to him, 
but is unable to go, having put out his knee, and now 
L d Albemarle is rather better, but still in a dangerous 
way. Once more adieu, my dearest madam. I am 
sure you know how truly I am sensible of all the 
favours and kindnesses I have received at Bulstrode, 
and will say a word of my gratitude to the Duchess 
when you do me the honour to mention me. I shall 
wish to hear of her Grace's health and yours ; may both 
be perfect and long remain so. 

&c. &c. 

F. BOSCAWEN. 

My dau T presents her respects. She did not find 
I/ Sefton at home. 

Notre grand repas est annonce ; but pray pity our 
tete-a-tete in the evening at Enfield. 

I open my letter to tell you that Mrs. T. Pitt 4 is 
brought to bed of a daughter. 



1 Isabella, second daughter of William, 2nd Earl of Harrington, married, 
Nov. 27, 1768, Charles William Molyneux, 1st Earl of Sefton. 

2 George Keppel, 3rd Earl of Albemarle, E.G., died Oct. 13, 1772, and was 
succeeded by his son William-Charles, the 4th Earl. 

Admiral Edward Keppel, afterwards created Viscount Keppel, was brother 
to the 3rd Earl. 

* Wife of Thomas Pitt, eldest son of the eldest brother of William Pitt, 
Earl of Chatham. This Thomas Pitt, of Boconnock, was raised to the peerage, 
January 5, 1784, as Baron Camelford. His wife was Anne, daughter and 
coheir of Pinkney Wilkinson, of Burnham, Norfolk. Esq. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 461 



The ffoti. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Enfield, 30th Sept., 1772. 

I have wanted leisure (but not gratitude, believe me) 
to acknowledge my dearest Mrs. Delany 's most kind 
and most welcome letter ; to hear of your walk, of the 
Duchess's good night and good health, was most pleasant 
hearing to me ; but I have never been able to say so 
much from that time to this. At first when I returned 
from " les Delices de Bulstrode," " tout le monde me vint 
tirer sa botte" Not only the neighbours that I have, 
but one of those I us'd to have in Surry, at Hatchland's. 
A neighbour not willing to lose old acquaintance came 
to spend a day with me ; Mr. Burrows only intended 
me a morning visit, but found the equinox en campagne, 
and was very glad to remain all day and during a stormy 
night ; but a propos of equinox how did the hurricane 
of the 24th agree with my dear friends at Bulstrode ? for 
indeed it was terrible enough to affect stronger nerves 
than theirs, and to awake sounder sleepers. I heard a 
dreadfull crash about 3, and thought the chimnies were 
falling; but it was a great elm broke asunder in the 
back yard just behind my bed ; happily its vast debris 
fell into the pond, and not over the house. The morn- 
ing after the storm we set out for Langleybury (Mr. 
Amyands) where we spent four days, trops remplis with 
airings, and quadrilles, &c., to find any hours for writing. 
We had very agreeable company in the house, of your 
acquaintance, viz., Sir W m Musgrave, 1 and Mr. C. Lang- 



1 Sir William Musgrave, of Hay ton, Bt., m. Isabel, daughter of William, 
Lord Byron, and widow of Henry, 4th Earl of Carlisle. 



462 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

lois, 1 the former may possibly be at Bulstrode by this 
time. We had very fine weather, Monday only excepted, 
when Lord and Lady Hyde and their son came to dine 
with Lady Northampton. 2 How the children grow up ! 
I remember that heir apparent in a frock not long ago 
methinks. Lady Hyde inquired after your health. Lady 
N. carry'd me to see Cashiobury 3 (the owners being 
absent) ; it might be made fine, I think, in other hands ; 
at present the house is more like a French hotel than an 
English nobleman's country seat ! Lady Dow r E' 8 farm 
was just the reverse, being very neat. I did not go into 
the house, w ch I had seen, but the grounds were very 
pretty and well kept. 

Lady Hyde's portraits are always charming to me, 
and my lady permitted me (in a short morning's visit 4 ) 
to gaze at them at my leisure, which I preferr'd (I own) 
to all the propos flatteurs with which she graciously 
receiv'd me. 

Yesterday we returned hither to our Michaelmas- 
goose, and I take the earliest opportunity to thank you, 
my dear madam, for the two papers you were so good to 
copy for us. My dau r , proud to have executed y r small 
commission well, now aspires to transact a great one for 
the Duchess, and to procure for her Grace a sheet-cow 
and bull, or rather, I believe, two calves of different sexes. 
The Duchess of Beaufort enters into the negotiation 

1 Mr. C. Langlois might have been Mr. L'Anglois. who was alive in the 
commencement of 1800, and was executor or trustee to David, 2nd Earl of 
Mansfield. 

3 "Miss Hongham," 2nd wife of Spencer, 8th Earl of Northampton. 
8 The seat of the Earl of Essex, near Watford, Herts. 

4 To the Grove, near Watford, Herts, the seat of Lord Hyde, who was, in 
1776, created Earl of Clarendon. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 463 

with particular pleasure; but both will be angry if I 
presume to take it out of their hands, so I will say no 
more of it. Your young friend will take the liberty to 
write to you when she has succeeded, and her sister will 
inform her of the march of these pretty animals. I am 
only afraid they will dirty their sheets as they come 
along, and make only a very common appearance when 
they arrive. 

I cannot tell you any news. I have heard that Lord 
Palmerstone 1 is going to be marry'd to a physician's 
daughter, whose name I don't know, and that Mr. J. St. 
John (forbid it honour) is marry'd to a certain Poll 
Kennedy, much too well known. Neither of these 
events sound likely, and are probably contes faites a 
plaisir. 

What is true is a marriage in my family, which sur- 
pris'd me a good deal (having totally disbeliev'd all the 
reports I had heard of it). Lady Jane Evelyn, my 
brother's widow, is going to be married to Dr. Pepys. 2 
One cannot but think it an unequal match ! Au reste 
I believe he is a gentleman by birth, and certainly by 
education and manners ; his character, too, is excellent ; 
but you would have pity'd me, had you seen how I was 
puzzled and distressed in answering an obliging letter 
her ladyship wrote me to impart her intentions. I 



1 Henry Temple, 2nd Viscount Palmerston, was at that time a widower, 
his first wife, Frances, only daughter of Sir Francis Poole, Bart., having died 
in 1769. He married, secondly, in 1783, Mary, daughter of Benjamin Mee, Esq. 

2 Lady Jane's first husband, George Raymond Evelyn, Esq., Mrs. Boscawen's 
youngest brother, died Dec. 23, 1770, and on the 30th Oct., 1772, Lady Jane 
married Sir Lucas Pepys, Bart. She was the eldest daughter of John Leslie, 
8th Earl of Rothes, and in the year 1773, on the death of her brother John, 
the 9th Earl, became Countess of Rothes in her own right. 



464 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

cou'd not rejoice with her, for I did not rejoice (au con- 
traire) ; and I did not congratulate upon what I cou'd 
not approve ; but my approbation is not necessary, and 
" ce ne sont pas la mes affairs." However, I had rather 
have wrote ten letters than that one answer. A propos of 
letters. I hope the Duchess has rece d those of L d CV 
w ch we got copy'd in the house, and I sent them last 
Friday to Whitehall by a safe hand. 

Fanny tells me more news, as that Mr. Jenkinson is 
going to be marry'd to Lady Eliz. Parker, 2 daughter of 
Lord Macclesfield ; that Lady S. Bunbury 3 is to live with 
S r Charles, and meantime is at Holland House inocu- 
lating her child, who grows very like S r Charles. That 
Lord Yilliers 4 has spent all, and Lady Grandison a 
good deal in his service. I suppose that cannot be 
literally true, tho' his lordship is very ingenious in 
the art of wasting the most possible money in the 
least possible time. That Mrs. A. Pitt is to spend 
her winter at Paris, and will sell her villa at 
Knightsbridge. Lady Hyde told us something about 
the Duchess of Gloster's 5 manner of receiving Mrs. 
Walsingham, w ch I did not make out ; but you will 

1 Chesterfield, Philip-Dormer Stanhope, the 4th Earl, died in March, 1773. 
* Lady Elizabeth Parker, daughter of Thomas, 3rd Earl of Macclesfield, 
married John Fane, Esq., of Wormsley, Oxfordshire. 

3 Lady Sarah Lennox, daughter of Charles, 2nd Duke of Richmond, married, 
in 1762, Sir Thomas Charles Bunbury, Bart., of Barton, Suffolk. Lady Sarah 
married, secondly, the Hon. George Napier. 

4 Elizabeth, Countess Grandison in her own right, married Aland-John 
Mason, Esq. Their son George, Lord Villiers, became, at his mother's death, 
Earl of Grandison. 

5 H. R. H. William Henry, Duke of Gloucester, 3rd son of Frederick, 
Prince of Wales, and brother of King George III., married, Sept. 6, 1766, 
Maria, Countess-Dowager of Waldegrave, the illegitimate daughter of Sir 
Edward Walpole. 



OF MBS. DELANY. 465 

probably hear the story, if any there be, for I did not 
perceive that it was mention' d otherwise than report. 
Adieu, dear madam, pray take care of your health, and 
do not walk (now that much rains has made the ground 
damp) except in the delightful drawing-room ; 9 times to 
and fro every morning will satisfy me in the article 
exercise, to which I should like to add some morning 
drives with the Duchess in the post-chase. My gratefull 
respects attend her Grace, whose goodness to me I shall 
never forget. Continue me yours, my dear madam, for 
I am, 

Very affectionately, 

Your faithfull serv*, 

E. BOSCAWEN. 

My daughter says more of her respects and gratitude 
than I can insert. 



From Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

(? Oct., 1772.) 

The Duke and Duchess of Cumb d to celebrate the 
anniversary of their wedding day gave a grand entertain- 
ment to all their attendants, a ball and supper for fifty 
people, and all the valets des chambres and abigails 
within their compass graced the entertainment, whilst 
their E. H.'s ' condescended to be put to bed by a 
housemaid and a footman. I think there is "a third 



1 H. R. H. Prince Henry Frederick, Duke of Cumberland, brother to King 
George III., was born in Oct. 1745, and married, in Oct. 1771, the Hon. 
Anne Luttrell, daughter of Lord Irnham, afterwards Earl of Carhampton and 
widow of Christopher Horton, Esq., of Catton Hall, Derbyshire. Horace 
Walpole mentions her as " Mrs Horton," sister to " Colonel Luttrell, whom 
the Court crammed into the House of Commons instead of Wilkes." 



406 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Duchess might dance the hays with them who has 
unsuccessfully tried all her charms to inveigle company. 
Had they proved as zmavailing with his G. of K. happy 
would it have been for him ? She has her state coach 
following her wherever she bestows her presence, with 
three or four ladies (or rather misses) called her maids of 
honour. She wears a sack sometimes white, sometimes 
other colours, trimmed with roses of ribbon, in each a 
large diamond, no cap, and diamonds in her hair, and 
some gewgaws hovering over her head ; a tucker edged 
with diamonds, a little twist with a jewel dangling, and 
no more of a tippet than serves to make her fair bosom 
conspicuous rather than to hide it. I hear no news but 
a fine singer, I suppose a la mode, is to squall to admira- 
tion this winter ! 

I had last post a letter from my brother, with as satis- 
factory an account of himself as I fear I am to expect. 
He tells me he gets rest by the help of laudanum, and 
mentions you tenderly (for him,) and is afraid of your ven- 
turing out, as your bridge has suffered, a piece of news 
I was sorry to hear, but hope the damage can be easily 
repaired. Our dear Duchess's best wishes, as well as 
those of your ever affectionate 

M. D. 

A Mr. Jones 1 has published a translation of Asiatick 
Poetry, among it a poem on the game of chess. I fancy 
it is your old acquaintance. 



1 Sir William Jones, the eminent Oriental scholar, was born in London in 
1746. His father was a Welshman of illustrious descent, and a friend of Sir 
Isaac Newton. He distinguished himself at Harrow and Oxford, and added 
to scholastic attainments remarkable skill in manly exercises and accom- 
plishments, he also played on the Welsh harp. In 1765 he became private 



OF MRS. DELANY. 467 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

Bulstrode, 4th Oct., 1772. 

I will write to you all the prittle -prattle I can pick 
up, in hopes of amusing you. As to the grand affair in 
question, the kind visit you wish to make, and I to re- 
ceive, don't let it give you a moment's perturbation 
should it not happen, for I am satisfied neither you nor 
Mr. Port will be to blame, and unless it can be done with- 
out giving offence, and also without inconvenience in every 
respect, it will be no happiness to either of us. Your 
returning in bad weather you must take into considera- 
tion, as you lye-in in the country, which I think quite 
reasonable if agreeable to your own inclination. I have 
as good an opinion of Mr. D. as Mr. Gr. has, but without 
depreciating the merit of others ; but above all I hope I 
have that reliance on Providence as to give me the most 
cheerfull hope and dependance on support and protection 
for my dearest Mary wherever she is. I believe Lady 
Weymouth will be confined in the month of Dec r , and the 
Dss will choose to stay here till she is brought to bed, 
and go then directly. I should not in that case like to 
leave her here alone, so that we may both stay till Xtmas, 






tutor to Lord Althorp, and in 1769 and 70 travelled with his pupil on the 
Continent. In 1771 he adopted the Law as a profession. In 1772, he pub- 
lished a Collection of Poems, chiefly from Eastern authors. In 1774 he 
published his Commentaries on Asiatic poetry, and in the same year was 
called to the Bar. In 1783 he married Miss Shipley, daughter of the Bishop 
of St. Asaph, was appointed a Judge of the Supreme Court at Calcutta, 
received the honour of Knighthood and embarked for India. In 1784 he 
established the Asiatic Society. He died in India, April 27, 1794. He was 
master of twenty-eight languages, and among them of his paternal Welsh. 



468 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

and I would willingly be at home a week to be sure that 
the house is well air'd in case you come. 

S r Will m Musgrave and Mrs. Dashwood are here now, 
and make many enquiries after you. You are a very 
modest mother to have kept all the personal charms of 
y r daughter to yourself. From what you told me I 
had form'd her to myself a comely, sprightly, lovely 
girl, (tho' not an absolute beauty,) and also the most 
agreable little creature of her age this is what Lady M. 
Mordaunt told Mrs. Dashwood at Richmond last week 
(that she was), who was full of the praises of Ham and its 
owners. I have not the least suspicion of your spoyling 
her. An early obedience saves infinite chagrine to parents 
and children, and a very little experience must teach us 
that the most wretched beings are those who have no 
command of their passions, and that foundation must be 
laid very early, and may be done so cautiously as hardly 
to be perceived by the little pupil till it gains such 
ground as to become a habit. Believe me, my dearest 
Mary, I don't say this by way of preaching to you, for I 
know it is unnecessary either to you or Mr. Port, for I 
thank God you are of one mind. 

I should imagine if Mr. G. is well eno' to bear the 
exercise, that the Bath would do him service, and that 
the sooner he went the better. Bern d writes me word 
Mr. J. Dewes is summoned to Oxford to give his vote 
for Lord North. Surely there will no spoke be put in 
that wheel? I hope not, on several accounts ! I have 
had a letter from C. D. from Brussells, with a good ace* 
of himself, and of his return homewards. I hear Lady 
Tweeddale and Lady Cath. Hay, who is quite well, are 
at Hawnes with Lord Granville, who is particularly 



OF MES. DELAKY. 469 

fond of his niece. Perhaps it may be a means of reform- 
ing him ? 

The adventurous widow, I am afraid, at Hagley, will 
fail in her hopes of reforming a rake, and dearly pay for 
her presumption ! Everybody is sorry, as she is well 
spoken of, and much liked ; but it is already manifest to 
the world that his whole scheme was to cheat her of her 
fortune. He prevailed with her (as he has all the arts 
of Belial) to marry him before the writings were com- 
pleted, which Lord Ly n was endeavouring to get finish'd 
as soon as possible ; but now the wretch refuses to ratify 
them, so that he is master of her fortune, and she unpro- 
vided for. How greatly the poor father is to be pitied ! 
The only hopes now for the defrauded lady is that 
another marriage in Italy may be proved upon him, and 
she set at liberty ; but as to her fortune, he has no doubt 
already sunk it. 

I have had a charming long letter from Mrs. Boscawen, 
in pure spirits. Mr. Lightfoot not expected till y e end 
of this month. He will be a welcome guest. 

I have invented a new way of imitating flowers. I'll 
send you next time I write one for a sample. I have 
done no work but finishing the work'd stools, and am 
now knotting fringe for them, and I have done 3 
chimney boards for the drawing-room here, the dining- 
room, and the Dss own bed-chamber. They are meer 
bagatelles ; but the weather has been so fine we lived 
much abroad, and my agility is not now equal to my 
imagination. 

Mrs. Bos n ' s sister-in-law is going to be married to Doct r 
Pepys, a physician, a very unequal match, and which 
vexes her family. 

PART II. VOL. I. 2 I 



470 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The limits of this work will not permit of the insertion, at 
length, of the letters of Mr. Court Dewes to his sister during his 
different tours on the Continent. His first letter is dated 
Harwich, 27th June, 1772, when he was so ill that he said that 
every chaise he got into, he was in great doubt whether he should 
order it to drive forwards or home again. He however embarked 
that evening for Helvoetsluys. 

He writes from the Hague the 3rd of the following month, 
and expresses the great interest he takes in Holland, says he 
never wished more for health, as he never was in a place where 
there were more objects to excite and gratify useful curiosity and 
observation ; and that if it pleases God to restore his health he 
shall make Holland another visit ; but that he must hasten to 
Spa, and try the air and quiet of that place, with horse exercise. 
He praises the excellent servant who is with him, and r says that 
his companion is a nephew of Lord Exeter's, who with his 
governor (a Frenchman) is making the same tour. That they 
dine together, which is much more agreeable than going to 
ordinaries, and that they pay little more than 2s. 6d. a-head for 
an excellent dinner, including dessert and wine. That they 
propose changing their inn, and going to the Parlement d'An- 
gleterre, which is less expensive ; that their present hotel was 
recommended by a Mr. Crauford, who lives chiefly at Rotterdam, 
and he had called upon them and invited them to supper with 
him. That his house is situated on the Bomb quay, one of the 
noblest streets in Europe, and he entertained them very hand- 
somely. That his fellow-travellers, when at home, were always 
playing at chess, or on the fiddle, in both of which he joined, 
accompanying them on the harpsichord, which they found in 
the inn. 

From Spa Mr Court Dewes writes the 28th of July, where he 
says " Like Mr. Blunderhead, in the Bath Guide, he sent for a 
Doctor to tell him how to drink the waters," who immediately 
prohibited the three things he was particularly fond of, viz., 
butter, cheese, and fruit. That he rose at six, drank the water of 
the Fuhon Spring till half-past seven, then rode till nine, after 



OF MRS. DELANY. 471 

which he breakfasted, for the first time in his life, without butter, 
chocolate, milk, a crust of bread or a biscuit ! Dined at half-past 
two, on plain meat, without pie or pudding, peas or beans, and 
supped at nine on a crust of bread and a little wine and water ! 
The only person of his acquaintance whom he had met was Mr. 
Pery, the Speaker of the House of Commons in Ireland, whom 
he had known there, and who also visited Mrs. Delany in Lon- 
don. That the way of life is so exactly like Bath, that were it 
not for the difference of the buildings he could imagine himself 
thefe ; but that if possible there was still more gaming, " Pharaoh 
and hazard being the favourite games." That the country round 
resembled some parts of the Peak, and that some of the pro- 
spects between Liege and Spa reminded him so much of Matlock 
and Ham that he could not see them without emotion ; but that 
he would wait with patience if it pleases God to restore him to 
that degree of health, without which life was not worth having, 
although he did not desire more than a moderate share of 
either. 

On the 19th of August he again writes from Spa, saying that 
he has given the place fair play ; has not been out of bed at 
eleven, or in bed at seven, since he came there, and that being 
advised to intermit the waters he is going first into Germany 
by Aix la Chapelle, Bonn, Cologne, and Dusseldorf. That he ex- 
pects his friend, Mr. Coke, to meet him the beginning of Septem- 
ber to make the tour of Flanders, and to return to England toge- 
ther the end of October. He mentions Lord and Lady Spencer, 
Lord Althorpe, Lady Harriet and Lady Georgina Spencer being 
at Spa, paying him great attention, and sending messages to 
Ham. The 19th of September, Mr. Court D ewes again writes from 
Spa, having nearly recovered his health. He mentions a series 
of engagements with the Archbishop of Tuam, Mr. Sheldon, 
Mr. Butler, " an Irish gentleman of great fortune," Lord Spencer, 
Mr. Pery and Mrs. Anne Pitt, "who had come over by herself ;" 
but adds that he has not yet had strength to dance, and regrets 
that a commission from his sister, to get flax for her in Holland, 

2i2 



472 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

had not reached him before he left that country ; but he promises 
to obtain some in Flanders " although it is liable to be seized." 

On the 5th of October, in writing from Brussels, he says, " I 
partake your pleasure in the improvement of Mary Ann. 1 I am 
far from vain enough to think I deserve all your partiality says 
of me, but if I ever can be of any use to her I shall be very 
happy. I hope you will be able to bring Miss Landor home 
with you, as I think a female friend is almost all you want at 
Ham ! I am very willing to believe w th you y l virtuous love and 
friendship will last beyond y s life. They are the most delightful 
employments of the soul here, and we have very good authority 
for thinking they will make a considerable part of its happiness 
hereafter." " I pass my time more agreeably here (Brussels) than 
I have done in any place since I came abroad. My mornings 
are well employed in writing, reading and walking, and I have 
a spinnet in my room, a little music in the afternoon, an excellent 
comedy four times a week, and the other nights an assembly at a 
Baronnes, where I go when I please and meet the best company 
in Brussels ; I played at loo last night there in French, which 
is whimsical enough. There is an agreeable English family here, 
Mr. Benson, his wife and sister. Though greatly mended, I am 
not yet fit for much, and though impatient enough to see my 
friends in England, I shall stay till after the 15th, when there 
is to be a grand ceremony and gala in honour of the Empress's 
name-day, St. Theresa." 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscaiven to Mrs. Delavy. 

E n field, y e 19U Ocf, 1772. 

Your "kind letter, my dear madam, took a long jour- 
ney, even as far as Cornwall, from whence my son re- 



1 His niece, Gcorginn Mury Ann Port, aged 1 year. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 473 

turn'd it me : 'tis well the postmen there were ignorant 
of the treasure they possess'd, for I think they might 
have got a good deal by shewing a letter of Mrs. Delany's ! 
and I am not sure some of the Corporations wou'd not 
have got it fram'd and glaz'd for the ornament of their 
Town Hall ! so much is she held in honour there by those 
who have heard of her ; the few that have seen her there 
are now almost worn out, 'tis true, but they have carefully 
transmitted her merit to their posterity, and upon the whole 
I was very glad to get my letter safe back again. Mine 
in return must be very unworthy, and sans envelope, for 
tho' I know you are very free of y r 6 pences, yet I shall 
think it my indispensible duty to spare them for better 
occasions ; and when I get to Badminton, and have 
franks at will, then I may talk to you sans fin et sans 
cesse, if you will be graciously pleas'd to hear me. At 
present I shall only express my satisfaction to hear that 
you have enjoy 'd the fine days, as I hope you do still, 
for they increase and multiply upon us, to the great in- 
crease of my expences ; for every fine day I think we 
get another, and still another, gardener, and have new 
gravel' d the walks, and planted abundance of flowering 
shrubs, and thicken'd the wood with laurels here, and 
thin'd it into an open grove there ; in short, have be- 
stow'd abundance more shillings upon our landlord than 
he will ever thank us for, mais cela nous amuse, and 
might be lost at loo in a night's time ! I don't think 
you have been reduc'd lately to take y r exercise in the 
gallery, but do it discreetly out of doors, and never go 
without clogs ( tho' they should pinch you), nor stand 
still when you are warm with walking. I am glad you 



474 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

have seen Shardelois, 1 because I have always wanted to 
see it. I hope you will also visit Mrs. Walsingham, 
because I am sure it will give her pleasure. As she is a 
very early person, I think you may fly away by yourself 
some morning. I never saw a prettier airing. 

I am not acquainted with Mrs. Dow. We have been 
travelling further a-field, even to the moon, and are 
reading Fontenelle's Pluralite des Mondes, for now I 
have got 2 Fannys, my daug r and my goddaugh r . I 
give them lessons of astronomy, neither having read this 
pretty book, tho' I had 40 years ago pretty near. I for- 
get the narrow bounds of my paper. The sheet cows are 
somewhere, and they will be in Bulstrode Park sometime. 
If I had known the broken row waggons, or the great 
broad dish (tho' the latter is indeed handsome) had been 
worthy a place in the Duchess's china closet, Mr. M. 
shou'd not have been middle man. I shou'd have aspir'd 
to convey them without his assistance. Adieu, my dear 
madam. I can't imagine where the seal is to be put to 
this, or where I can tell you how much I 

Am y rs . 

Enfield. 
Tuesday night, ye 20 th . 

Since I wrote ^the preceding scroll, I have been 
at London, my dear madam, and who shou'd visit 
me there but a mem r of Parlia 1 (Mr. Brett), so now 
I might gossip as much as I pleas'd; but unluckily 
this March (early in the morning) the starving w ch 



1 " tiliardeloes " near Amersbam, Bucks, thoii and now (1861) in the pos- 
session of the family of Tyrwhitt Drake. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 475 

came upon me before dinner, and the stupid heavi- 
ness afterwards, have so disqualified me for conversation, 
that I will only pretend to send you certain franks long 
intended for use, and present my best respects to the 
Duchess from her Grace's and dear Mrs. Delany's 
Very affectionate, faithfull, 

and obliged servant, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 



The Dowager-Countess Oower to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill, 28 th Oct r ., 72. 

D r Mrs. Delany has a most terrible prophetick spirit, 
for by y e very same post y* I rece d her last obliging 
letter, I had one from L y H., w ch I have not yet quite 
decipher'd, but as much as I can find out 'tis full of 
nothing ! The rash act of breakfasting at Bulstrode so 
establish'd my health, I have not had a complaint since. 
I had a letter from y e D s of Portland in ans r to one I 
wrote to asure I was perfectly well after my expedition, 
and to dissipate all yo r apprehensions. One may justly say 
of her Grace w* Voiture says of his ffavourite, " Y l she 
never forgets to do a good action, or ever remembers it 
w n it is done ;" but I shall always remember to be her 
faithfull h ble serv*. 

I hope Mr. Lightfoot is hapyly ariv'd, and y* virtu 
meets w th no interuptions. Pray tell y D s on examin- 
ing y e layers of my large blooming magnola I found one 
remarkably vigorous, w ch I have dedicated to her Grace. 
Y e man y l takes care of my garden advis'd me to put it 
in y e stove, to make it strike root y" better, and it may 



476 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

be harden' d by degrees in y e spring to plant out ; this 
he says is y e best method. I very much pityL d L n. 1 
"What must a parent feel under such circumstance ? Yet 
it astonishes me, after so many instances of his son's mis~ 
conduct, he (? suffer y e widow's ffortune to be in his 
power ! tho' she was ever-so-much y e L y Hot-upon't. 
There's no accounting for't, but from his L ps own ro- 
mantick turn he was charm'd w th y e advent'rous might. 
I've just read in his own history, &c., this remark, 
" When wise men act unwisely, y e cause must be usually 
sought for in their passions" 

I shall soon set forward for Norfolk. Wherever I 
am, I beg Mrs. Delany will never imagine I dislike long 
letters such as I can read, and such as her's I delight in ; 
being her faithful!, &c., 

M. GK 



The Hvn. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Enfield. Saturday, 30 Oct., 1772. 

MY DEAR MADAM, 

This comes hoping that the sheet cow will come 
walking (very gracefully, and accompany 'd by her 
spouse) into the charming domaines of Bulstrode on 
Wensday next the 4th Nov r . My dau r assures me they 
have chosen a very carefull poor man for the conductor, 
and have given him the strictest charge, but that the 
animals themselves are far less beautifull than she in- 
tended they shou'd be ; in short, they are not arriv'd at 
their perfection, but as everything does at Bulstrode, so 
will these I doubt not, and claim a share of their noble 

Lyttlcton. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 477 

mistresses notice and favour by next summer. Having 
thus perform 'd my commission, I must not indulge my- 
self with further discourse, my dear madam, for here are 
all manner of people come with all manner of bills. 
Monday or Tuesday I shall be in town, and set out Fri- 
day, s'il plait a Dieu, for Badminton. There I hope to 
have the pleasure to hear of your health and of my Lady 
Duchesses, to whom I present my best respects, and am 
ever dear Mrs. Delany's 

Most affectionate faithfull servant, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 

My J'oung companion is very much your servant, and 
presents her respects to the Duchess. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Badminton, 13th Nov., 1772. 

Many thanks to you, my dear madam, for the favour 
of your kind letter. Great has been the care and anxiety 
express 'd for the little cows, because of the floods and 
torrents, till my daughters had the pleasure to receive 
the Duchess of Portland's obliging notes, which gave 
them great satisfaction in having a share (tho' ever so 
small) in anything that is agreeable to her Grace. This 
chateau, tho' great, furnishes but little matter of intelli- 
gence. A regular life and a quiet one, which suits me 
mighty well, but gives no scope for history ; mine, there- 
fore, is not eventfull. However, I will begin it up at 
London, where I staid but two days, and hardly saw 
three people that I car'd about, except my good friends 



478 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

the new Lord Chief Baron and his lady, 1 with whom I 
spent one evening. On Friday we set out early for 
Windsor Castle to breakfast with Mrs. Walsingham, and 
staid with her as long as ever we cou'd afford. There 
we heard of our good friends at Bulstrode, which is 
always pleasant to us. Our conversation was extremely 
so ; but all pleasant things end soon, and we tore our- 
selves away to proceed in much rain and most dreary 
weather to our inn at Speen Hill, where we inquired 
after Mrs. Montagu. The landlady suppos'd she was 
gone from Sandleford, so we concluded her at Bulstrode, 
but (as it appears) were premature in our conjectures. 
Next morning, with becoming impatience, we got up 
before daylight, and arriv'd here in torrents of rain, and 
surrounded by torrents of water (w ch , however, we only 
saw} long before dinner time. My little grandsons 
rival'd their mother in joy at our appearance, and we 
had the great satisfaction to find them all in good health. 
Mr. and Mrs. Southwell were in the house, but are now 
gone, and we have no company ; but Wensday last was 
jour de gala, and we sat down 30 to dinner. 

In the evening there was a ball for the young people, 
and cards for those who chose it, and then supper, and 
then to dance again : all which was a great holiday to 
the neighbours. As to myself, vous jugez bien, that I 
prefer the even tenor of our ways : a walk when the sun 
shines as bright as it does now (w ch has been rare) ; a 
book which I read to my young ladies while they work 
and the gentlemen are at their sports ; an hour or two 
by myself in my apartrn* ; a little playing with the chil- 



Chief Baron and Lady Smythc. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 479 

dren, or listening to their mother upon the harpsichord, 
the whole concluding with one game at whist en famille, 
in which I am a mere goose ; for 'tis a great science, and 
requires too a degree of memory which I am not pos- 
sess'd of. Quadrille was much better suited to my capa- 
city ; but that is out of fashion, it seems, w ch will cost 
me many a sixpence. 

So much for my journey and occupations. Yours, my 
dear madam, thro' the paths of science, are far otherwise 
important. I am glad Mr. Lightfort l is return'd, your 
faithfull guide and fellow-labourer. 

Mrs. Montagu's company will divert your pursuits, 
and in every sense of the word divert you. I hope she 
is well, and I beg you to make my compliments to her. 
I should have told you that I have seen those who have 
seen la nie'ce bien aimee, and gave me a very good ac- 
count of her and her dau r , and her most romantick and 
agreeable habitation. Mr. and Mrs. Southwell have been 
at Ham this summer in a ramble they took into Stafford- 
shire, Derbyshire, &c. They were very kindly enter- 
tain'd by Mr, and Mrs. Port, and left them in very good 
health. 



1 John Lightfoot, rector of Sheldon, Hants, and of Gotham and Sutton in 
Nottinghamshire, a Fellow -of the Royal and Linnean Societies, aud author of 
the " Flora Scotica." 



480 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Ddany to the Right Hon. Viscountess Andover. 

Bulstrode, 20th Nov., 1772. 

DEAR MADAM, 

The Dss of Portland has told me that y r lady- 
ship complains kindly and gently of my silence, which is 
too flattering for me not to take an immediate advantage 
of, and to assure dear Lady Andover that the happiness 
of her friendship, and the pleasure of her letters, are of 
too much consequence for me to neglect, and that on 
this occasion I have infirmities of body and mind to 
plead. A very slight billious indisposition left a stu- 
pidity for some time that made me unfit for writing. 
The former, I thank God, is quite removed ; the latter, 
I fear I must carry to my grave. As for example : 
here have I been some days, nay, I may say, almost 
every hour, entertained with a redundancy of wit with 
the profoundest wisdom with the sublimest philosophy 
with the greatest learning and knowledge of men, letters, 
and manners with the nicest punctilios of good breed- 
ing, and with the most elegant fancy in dress and yet 
I have neither more wit, ivisdom, or philosophy I am 
not an abler politician not a bit better bred or better 
dressed than I \vas 40 years ago I Can anything be 
more stupid ? How can it be accounted for ? But that 
my brain is petrified like a fossil; or, that the over- 
flowing of such a torrent of parts comes like a flood from 
the mountain 011 the poor humble valley, and carry s all 
before it. I own I prefer the salutary gentle dew of 
common sense ; a little rill, a purling stream, that fixes 
the thoughts, and allows of social and reciprocal conver- 
sation ; but the towering sublime without being modified 



OF MES. DELANY. 481 

by the beautifull is astonishing, but not pleasing. It is 
like travelling always on the Alps ; we wonder at its 
magnificence, but are shock'd at the precipices, and in 
dread of being crush'd by the impending rocks. 

What a contrast is there to this, my dear Lady An- 
dover, in our inestimable friend ! who, with every ad- 
vantage (in a superlative degree) that can make her 
respected and beloved, possesses the greatest modesty, 
and her dignity is blended with so much amiableness 
that, whilst she is respected for her rank, and admired 
for her accomplishments, she is a delight and consola- 
tion to all those she honours with her friendship. She 
ever forgets her own sufferings when a friend wants 
her to sooth her grief, or support her under any tryal. 
Her religious principles are so well establish'd, her mind 
so enrich'd and inform'd with usefull knowledge of art 
and nature, her sentiments so just and delicate, and her 
polish'd manners and real politeness render her conversa- 
tion so animated and agreeable, that no fault can be found 
but that she is too sparing of it, arising from the great 
diffidence which makes her insensible to her own peculiar 
merit. She is wise without insolence, and entertaining 

o 

without a grain of conceit ! I could say a thousand 
things more, but to crown all, and what I feel with the 
most affec te gratitude, she is the best and steadiest of 
friends. This is a subject I am sure you will forgive my 
enlarging upon, tho' your own excellent and ingenious 
mind could do it ampler justice. 

I rejoyce your lady p has a fix'd abode in London for 
this winter, tho' it is lamentably far off. I comfort 
myself with the hopes that you will have many calls to 
Westminster, and that in so long a journey an inn by the 



482 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

way may be convenient, and hope the Dove and Olive 
Branch in St. James s Place 1 will have your custom, 
where you will be provided with a warm room, and with 
a hearty welcome from 

Dear madam, your lady p ' 8 

Most affec te and most 

Obedient humble serv 1 , 

M. DELANY. 

Lady Wallingford leaves us to-morrow ; the rest of our 
company on Wednesday next. 

The Dss's love attends Elford ; mine also, with my 
best respects. 

The Dowager- Countess Gcnver to Mrs. Delany. 

Holkham, 23* Nov., 72. 

Modesty, I know, is always yo r attendant ; sory I was 
to read indisposition was another, tho' it had left you, T 
hope, never to return again. I did not think my coiriis- 
sion to Mr. C. Dewes c d have chagrin'd him in y e least 
degree, if I had, I sh d not have sent it. Tho' he is not 
satisfied w th himself, I verily believe I shall be w th y e 
execution of it ; and for y e price not amounting to y e sum 
suppos'd, is very agreeable both to my disposition and 
my purse ! If y e lace don't incumber you, wish you'd 
keep it till wee meet ; in y e mean time, w n ever you write, 
pray, d r mad m , forwards my best thanks to Mr. C. 
Dewes. When people think their health mended it 
certainly is, tho' they mayn't imediately show it in their 
countenance, w ch I hope is his case. 

1 " The Dove and Olive Branch " alluded to a painted glass window in Lcr 
Louse in St. James's Place. 



OF MRS. DELAXY. 483 

L y Leicester, who is perfectly well, as is yo r li ble serv*, 
desires her comp ts and thanks for all yo r kind wishes, and 
to y e genii of Bulstrode Groves, whose amusem 13 are 
information. I had a most obliging letter from her. I 
did not mean to tax her time for y e magnolia being 
always her devoted. 

You greatly hon r y e citizens. C d you diffuse yo r hapy 
composition among 'em, they might merit y e title you 
give 'em. As they are, they only make use of y e word 
aprehension to serve their turn ; but you feel it. I hope 
their riots will be confin'd to y m selves (as there is now 
a hapy apearance of) till it brings 'em to nothing. Be- 
fore I conclude, I must find fault w th one of yo r " appre- 
hensions ;" viz., being tedious. I now give it you under 
my hand, y* can never hapen to d r Mrs. Delany. 

Mountagu uses us ill. Yo is y e only information 
we've had of her being in London, and we've been con- 
cern'd for her, hearing a great deal of fnoods in y e North, 
and know not now wether she's sick or well. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

Bulstrode, 4th Dec., 1772. 

My dearest Mary, I have a longing desire to make 
you a little visit at Welsbourn, and if it will not be 
inconvenient to Mr. Dewes, I will set out next Friday, 
the llth, from hence, the day the Duchess of Port- 
land intends, please God, going to town. I can stay 
no longer than till Friday the 18th; but it will be 
a great gratification and satisfaction to me to spend 
a few days with you and the rest of my friends 



484 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

at Welsbourn, not to say a word of the little darling. 
I name the time of my staying that you may contrive, 
if possible, that we may not have many interruptions, 
and think it will be best not to mention to anybody 
.whatever beside your own household and Mrs. Mead 
anything of my coming ; and should you find it will be 
any way inconvenient, tell me honestly. I don't enclose 
this letter, that you may have it some hours sooner and 
answer it by the return of the post, and I may have it 
on Thursday morning, which will give me time to pre- 
pare my chaise if I put my scheme into execution. I 
purpose lyeing at Woodstock, at the Duke of Marl- 
borough's Arms, where I was when we went to Wroxton, 
and is a very warm good house. I will take care of my- 
self, I assure you, on the road, and think the journey 
will be of great service to me. I am sure seeing my 
dearest Mary, &c., will, to whom I am ever most truly 
affectionate, 

M. DELANY. 



Tlie Countess Cowper to Mrs. Port. 

Richmond, Dec. 4th, 1772. 

MY DEAREST MRS. PORT, 

I am glad to hear y n are going, or gone, to 
Welsbourn, as I think change of scene will be good for 
y r spirits, and change of air may cure your cough. But 
if it should not, I hope you will not lose time, but go to 
Bristol, as those waters will be both good for y u , &c., and 
cool your blood, and prevent any little fever. Cooling 
diet must certainly be right. I have not mention'd to 
any one y r having been ill, for fear it shou'd reach Mrs. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 485 

Delany. Lady Mary Mordaunt has left me now for the 
winter, and Mrs. Le Grand is come, I hope, to spend it 
with me. The tides have run high lately, but not so 
high as to drive, or rather wash, my neighbours from 
Eichmond. They are as usual lean and chilly. / as 
warm as ever, and keep fire at a distance. Lady Char- 
lotte Edwin presented Lady Catherine Hay to their 
Majesties on Monday last. They were remarkably gra- 
cious to her. She is to go to the Queen's birthday, and 
dance at y e ball. She dined with me on Wednesday 
last, and staid y e eveniog. I had three tables at cards. 
Mr. Tollemache ! is going to be married to one of the 
Miss Lewis's. They say she is handsome ; perhaps you 
may have seen her, as I believe she is Warwickshire. 
She has an extream good character, and so has he. He 
has bought y e lease of Coombe of Mr. Vernon for 800, 
w ch I am glad of on many accounts. I am sure Lord 
Spencer will like to have him for a tenant. I rejoice to 
hear the sweet girl has cutt her teeth so favourably, as I 
have been told it is a sure sign of a good constitution. 
My best complim t- to Mr. Dewes, Mr. Port, and Mrs. 
Mead, who is, I conclude, very happy to have you so 
near, and who would not be so ? Well ! I live in hopes 
that a time will come when we shall meet again ! But, 
absent or present, I am, my dearest Mrs. Port, with the 
truest affection, 

Unalterably y w , 

S. Gr. COWPER. 

My sister and niece desire their kind compliments to 



1 The Hon. Wilbraham Tollemache (afterwards 5th Earl of Dysart) married 
Anna, daughter of David Lewis, of Malvern Hall, Esq., Warwickshire. 
PART II. VOL. T. 2 K 



486 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

you. I hope Mr. Court Dewes has quite recovered his 
health by his native air. 

I have just recollected this is y r wedding day. May 
you and Mr. Port see many happy returns of it. 



The Ucn. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

5th Dec., 1772. 

I have always heard that arbitrary government is the 
best, provided one cou'd be sure that the Sovereign wou'd 
still be wise and good. Now, as I am very sure yours is 
both, my dear madam, I have only to congratulate you 
upon your chains, which are ornamental, and your sub- 
mission, which is voluntary. 

The spinning wheel has taken in a stock of provision 
lately my Lady Jerningham * tells me, and I grow a 
little suspicious of your designs since I hear it is " vic- 
tuaird" for so long a time! We had need to be all 
patient Grisels, since none can hear of her Grace's in- 
tentions to come towards us. Lady Bute is impatient, 
Lady Jerningham wants her scholar, and I may name a 
little personnage, and I shou'd add that the way of con- 
versing with you which I best like is on soft cushions at 
the Hotel Delany, St. James's Place. And now, my dear 
madam, I must confess to you, that in humble imitation 
of you where I can (so many of y r qualities and powers 



1 Mary, eldest daughter and heiress of Francis Plowden, Esq., and of Mary 
Howard, heiress of the Barony of Stafford, and wife of Sir George Jeruiugham, 
Bart. 



OP MRS. DELANY. 487 

being inimitable), I have got an inflam'd eye, and it is 
with one only that I assure you I remain, and ever 
shall, 

Your most faithfull, 

And affectionate servant, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 



Mrs, Delarty to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

St. James's Place, 30th Dec., 1772. 
Adieu old year. 

As I am sure my dearest Mary, &c., will wish to know 
how I do after my journey, I have no remorse in so soon 
writing again. I thank God I am very well ; found my 
house, clean, dry, and sweet, and not colder, if so cold, as 
the country in general. I saw our dear Duchess twice 
on Tuesday, and Mrs. Boscawen once, and yesterday 
morning I had a visit from Mr. Pot, with a message 
from Mrs. Montagu {Han ) and Mr. Fred. Montagu, and 
in the evening Mrs. M. and Mrs. Bos. Again her Grace 
played truant, but will make me amends this evening. 
Lady Wey mouth and child very well for their time. 
Though I have not yet had a levee of beaux esprit, I 
have not been neglected. I found on my table a profile 
of Captain Edward Hamilton 1 in Wedgewood-ware in 
imitation of the antique very like, and a new edition, 
with notes, from Mr. Walpole, published by himself, of 
Count de Grammont, printed at Strawberry Hill ; also a 

1 " Capt. Edward Hamilton." Fifth and yxningest son of the Hon. Henry 
Hamilton and Mrs. Hamilton (Miss Dawson, of Castle Dawson), Mrs. Delany's 
intimate friend. 

2 K2 



488 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

letter from Mrs. Ravaad, with a pair of ruffles from 
Bath a downright cheat, and I will have those that 
were at first designed me, and so I have just told her. 
These are elegant and pretty, but not her work. Mrs. 
Johnston brought them from Bath, and is to come to me 
this afternoon, and give me an account of our friends 
there. 

I have sent to Lady "Willoughby, and suppose I shall 
see her soon. Mrs. Keene is also in the encreasing way, 
and happy with a place of a thousand pound a year that 
Lord North, or rather, I believe, Lord Hertford, has 
bestowed on Mr. Keene. Who should just now inter- 
rupt me but the little Pere Courayer, in as good spirits 
and looks as I have seen him these twenty years ! If I 
had time I would tell you all his douceurs (not fearing, 
considering his age and distance, that it would give your 
dear P. a pang of jealousy). From me he walked to her 
R. H. Princess Amelia. I have not picked up a word 
of news. The great men are taking breath this recess, 
and when they assemble, woe to the Nabobs ! They 
are at present the subject of debate. Those that have 
been unjust and cruel I hope will be detected ; those that 
have done their duty mercifully I hope will be distin- 
guished from the horde of rogues ! 

My friend Mason is much chagrined at his daughter 
Elfrida's * having eloped without his consent. I knew 
when I heard it was brought on the stage that he was 
not consulted, and they say it is sadly performed. It 
vexes one to think that a poem of such delicacy and 

1 Elfricla, a Dramatic Poem, written on the model of ancient Greek tragedy, 
by William Mason ; first published in 1752. It was afterwards altered for 
tl.eatrical representation. 



OP MES. DELANY. 489 

dignity should be prostituted, and the charms of virgins 
represented by the abandoned nymphs of Drury Lane. 
Such a poem would have been represented in days of 
yore by the youthfull part of the Eoyal family, or those 
of the first rank. Indeed, in these our days (save our 
own Royal Family), it would be difficult to find repre- 
sentatives suited to such virtuous and refined characters ! 
Mr. Garrick has alter'd Hamlet. I don't on the whole 
find it meets with any other approbation than that of 
shortening the play, which was rather too long. I own 
if I was advent'rous enough to go and see it, I should 
regret the loss of the gravediggers, which scene is en- 
tirely left out. I am no judge of time and place, &c., 
but the wild strokes of nature that enliven Shakespear, 
I think, are too precious to be parted with. In my full 
career of criticism, in came two old acquaintances from 
Ireland Bishop Maxwell, 1 brother to Lord Farnham, and 
his lady. They have left me only time enough to put 
on my cap before dinner. 

Surely last night your cheeks glowed (and the dar- 
lings), for I had a comfortable talk with my little friend 
on the chapter of children and g. children. Everybody 
full of enquiries ; everybody sends more kind things than 
I can say, so adieu. 

Here I am in my post chaise. I long for a letter from 
Welsbourn. 



1 Dr. Henry Maxwell, Bishop of Meath, married Margaret, only daughter 
of the Eight Hon. Anthony Foster, Chief Baron of the Exchequer in Ireland. 



490 LIFE AND CORllESPONDEJsCE 



CHAPTEE XXIII. 

JANUARY 1773 JUNE 1774. 

Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

St. J. P., 2nd Jan., 1773. 

Thursday evening I saw Lady M. Mordaunt, who 
looked very well, and you may easily guess our subject 
of conversation. Lady Bute, Lady Wallingford, Mrs. 
Johnston, Mr. T. Montagu, and our dear Duchess made up 
my circle. Yesterday little Mrs. Montague, Mrs. Dash- 
wood, Miss Boscawen, the belle esprit Mrs. Montagu, and 
ditto. This morning Lord Guilford, and the evening 
take its chance. To-morrow the Duchess of P. dines 
with me, and on Monday I send Smith (in a hack) to fetch 
Miss Sparrow, who is to stay with me till Thursday. 
The chief topick of conversation yesterday was Lord 
Villiers' appearance in the morning at Court in a pale 
purple velvet coat, turned up with lemon-colour, and em- 
broidered all over with S. S.'s of pearl as big as pease, 
and in all the spaces little medallions in beaten gold, 
real solid, in various figures of Cupids " and the like " (as 
Smith would say). At best it was only a fool's coat, and 
so I leave it to tell you something better worth your 
attention. I had this morning a visit from Mr. Light- 



OF MRS. DELANY. 491 

foot, and am charged with his best compliments, and 
the darling must have her share. He told me he had 
seen Mr. Banks and Solander, and they gave him an 
account of what was most remarkable in their summer's 
tour ; amongst other things the discovery of an island 
on the western coast of Scotland, called Staffa, about 
three miles in circumference, and supported like a table 
on a frame by clustered pillars exactly of the form of 
those of the Giants' Causeway, and of the same kind of 
stone, differing as they do in their angles and dimensions, 
and some 60 and 70 feet high, their base in the water; 
and as they sailed round the island they discovered a cave 
of a very particular form, three hundred yards long, dimi- 
nishing to the end as an avenue appears to do at a dis- 
tance ; broken pillars on each side from which they 
might have stept from stone to stone to the end, and the 
base of the pillars made a roof over head. From thence 
they went to Iceland, which is 65 degrees north latitude, 
not far from Greenland : there they met with a mountain 
called Ilecla, that had been a volcano, for the country all 
around it is covered with lava. At the foot of it is a 
fountain called Geyser, that throws up a stream or co- 
lumn of water 30 feet in diameter, and 64 high. They 
threw a dead partridge into it, which was very well 
boy led in seven minutes, 

Did you receive my note from Chapel House, and my 
long letter from Tetsworth and London ? Sir Roger 
Bourgoyne 1 has had a stroke of palsy. Mast 1 C. Williams 
something better, but Lady W. very anxious about him. 

1 Sir Roger Burgoyne, M.P. for the county of Bedford. He married, in 
1739, Lady Frances Montagu, eldest daughter of George, Earl of Halifax. 
Sir Roger died in 1780. 



492 LIFE AND CORKESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Delany to the Rev. John Dewes, at Ccdwich. 

St. James's Place, 30th Jan., 1773. 

I am very well now, but very much concerned to hear 
that my bro r had the additional pain of rheumatism. I 
hope this dry weather may agree with him better than 
the damp ; my most affectionate wishes attend him. I 
wish I could interrupt your studies (agreeable and pro- 
fitable as they are) by some bagatelle, which, though 
not good for nourishment, might be good sauce for better. 
In the first place I must begin with a message from Mr. 
Foley to Mr. Granville ; he desired his best compliments 
(indeed he is always very kind in his enquiries), and 
that I would inform h:m that he is going to have (he 
hopes) a very happy marriage in his family, his youngest 
son, Mr. Andrew Foley, 1 to his cousin, Miss Tomlinson. 
The young people have liked one another some time. 
Mr. Foley settles on them, in present, his house and 
estate at Newport, which is now above a thousand 
pound a year, and Miss Tomlinson's fortune, exclusive 
of what she will have after her mother's death, is 7000 
and 400 a year. It is a great match for him according 
to his present income ; but Mr. Foley intends doimj 
more if they behave well. Mr. Foley would not suffer 
his sister to give up any part of her income, or lessen 
any of her present comforts, but keep her house, &c., to 
herself, and he will furnish the young people's. He says 
" his son Andrew has always shown him a proper regard, 
is very well-disposed, and has withstood all the snares 



1 Andrew Foley, Esq., third son of Thomas Foley, afterwards Lord Foley, 
married in 1773, his cousin, Elizabeth) daughter and heir of Boulter 
Tomlinsou, Esq. 



OF MES. DELANY. 493 

that have been laid for him ;" and those who are in the 
way of seeing and hearing the dissoluteness of the pre- 
sent age must know how to set a value on those 
young people who are virtuous in the midst of vice. 
Mr. T. Foley has lost, at Newmarket, &c., fifty thousand 
pounds. He has now entered into an agreement with his 
father, that if he will pay his debts he will entirely leave 
off gaming ! I wish it may prove so ; but any habit of 
profligacy is not so easily laid aside. The wedding will 
be as soon as y e writings are drawn. There is no truth 
in the report of y e other wedding. Though T. Foley * is 
much in love with Lady C. Carp 1 , 2 he is not so with 
matrimony ! I hear of balls without end, and an opera 
\that enchants the degenerated taste of the musical world. 
I am satisfied with the report, and was much entertained 
with an account of Madlle. Heynell's dancing, 3 compared 
to a T totum set a spinning, after stalking over the 
stage, like a pair of compasses that you twirl from point 
to point on a sheet of paper ! I am sorry Miss Lander has 
been prevented coming to your sister on so melancholy 
an account, for I fear she is now in an uneasy state, and 
wish she had a cheerful female friend with her. I feel 
myself quite unable to be with her at the critical time, 
and it is sad to be at such a distance from those we 
are anxious for ! but she is under a better protection 



1 Thomas, afterwards 2nd Baron Foley. 

2 Lady Caroline Carpenter, youngest sister of the Earl of Tyrconnel. She 
married, April 28, 1774, Uvedale Price, of Foxley, in Herefordshire, Esq. 

3 In Dec. 1771, Walpole says, " I shall go to town again on Monday to see 
that greatest of curiosities, a fine dancer at the Opera. Mademoiselle Heinel 
is to appear on Tuesday." In April 1772, he says, " She is the most graceful 
figure in the world, with charming eyes, bewitching mouth and lovely 
countenance." 



494 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

than any that is human, and I must submit to what I 
cannot alter. 

Lord Orford 1 was so ill yesterday that there was no 
hopes of him, occasioned by his striking in a humour. 
Most likely if he dyes Sir Ed d Walpole, 2 who will then 
be Lord Orford, will make a sale of that fine collection 
of pictures, and I may have a chance of seeing them, a 
pleasure that still lasts with me, though many others have 
dwindled. 



John Dewes, of Welsbourn, Esq. to his son the Rev. J. Dewes, at Calwich. 

Welsbourn, 31st Jan., 1773. 

DEAR REV D , 

I had y of the 23rd inst., for which I thank you, 
but am very sorry to hear yo r uncle has been so much 
afflicted of late with his old complaint. 

I am glad to hear Mr. and Mrs. Port got safe home, 
and that they were so well pleased with their entertain- 
ment here. I thank you for your kind congratulations 
and good wishes, but it is not reasonable for people at 
my time of life to think of enjoying years of health. I 
thank God I am tolerably well in health, but perceive a 
generall decay, which increases dayly. 

I am glad you are so well, and wish you a long con- 
tinuance of health and every other blessing. 

I am glad you think so well of Mr. Marsh's pupill. I 



1 George Walpole, third Earl of Orford, disposed of the collection of 
pictures made by his grandfather, Sir Robert Walpole, to the Empress of 
Russia. He died, unmarried, in 1791. 

2 Sir Edward Walpole, second son of Sir Robert Walpole, 1st Earl of 
Orford. 



OF MES. DELANY. 495 

wish for both their sakes he may turn out well. Yo r bro 
as you imagine, have left me, and tho' it's so long since 
as the 21st of Jan y , I have not heard from either of 
them ever since, w ch is to me mre of great surprise, the 
like never happening before. One or other of them always 
used to let me know how they got to town, if nothing 
further, but now I have not heard a word from either, 
w ch much surprises me ; and if it was not for the old pro- 
verb, w cb says "no news is good news," I sh d be more 
anxious about it ; and now being left quite alone after 
the hurry of company w ch I have had for some time past, 
makes the transition from that to none the more irksom ; 
but if extreams must sometimes happen, I think the 
latter the most desirable. You, p'haps, who experience 
this in a greater degree, may pbably think otherwise ; 
but upon the whole, what the poet (w r Pope or Pryor I 
am not certain) has long since observed, seems true, 

" That cruell something, dispossess'd, 
Corrodes and bitters all the rest." 

And here let us leave it, not without resolving or endea- 
vouring at least to get the better of this malevolent dis- 
position. Welsb'ourn stands just where it did, and all 
its appendages much in statu quo. I suppose you have 
seen the brace of fine greyhounds Mr. Lucy gave Mr. 
Port. I expect to hear of great feats done with them 
by you and Mr. Port. I think a breed by one of them 
from one of y r uncle's Italians would be a good cross. 
We have had, and still have, the greatest plenty of wood- 
cocks this year that I ever knew, so many that I fre- 
quently don't eat of them when they are br* to table, and 
110 scarcity either of hares or partridges. I hope you 



496 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

have plenty of them with you, and of everything else 
that is good, and am, with best respects to Mr. Gran- 
ville, 

Yo r most affec te ffa r , 

J. D. 

I suppose Mrs. Port told you how ill Dr. Lander had 
been j but he is now in a fair way of recovery, but his 
eldest sister who came to see him, I hear is now very ill 
at Warwick. 



Duchess of Portland to Mrs. Port, of flam, 

Whitehall, Feb. 25th, 1773. 

I am extreamly obliged to you, dear madam, for the 
favour of your letter, and return you many thanks for 
accepting of me for a godmother. I hope our dearest 
Mary l will endeavour to keep up her spirits, and am 
very glad she does not make visits, as no good can pro- 
ceed from it. 1 have the satisfaction to tell you our 
dear A. D. is pure well* She is so good to dine and 
spend the day with me, and is in good spirits. I dined 
with her on your birthday, when you may imagine we 
drank your health with our best wishes of many happy 
years to you. 

The town, as usual, are full of entertainments. Besides 
the constant plays, operas, and oratoria's assemblys, there 
are concerts, balls, and masquarades. The latter one 
hears so much of that I suppose the only method of not 
be tired of them is to frequent them. The oratorias are 



" Our dearest Mary." Mrs, Port herself. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 497 

to be much the fashion, as Miss Linleys are to per- 
form. 

It is reported that Lord Beauchamp l is to marry Lady 
Amelia D'Arcy, but he is still, they say, a disconsolate 
widdower, tho' I saw him smile at a ball the other night ! 

I beg you will be so good to make my compliments 
acceptable to Mr. Port, and a great many good wishes to 
your little darling, and beg my dear Mrs. Port will be- 
lieve me most 

Obediently and affectionately yours, 

M. C. PORTLAND. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

Monday, 1st March, 1773. 

You have named a longer day for my visit to Ham 
than I had in my mind's eye. I suppose the bantling 
will not be baptiz'd till your last week, and would not 
that be a good time for me to come to you? and I can 
then have the honour of representing our dear Dss, and 
by that time I hope my coming will not flutter your 
spirits, for it is y* consideration alone that keeps me 
from flying to you as soon as you are safe in your bed. 

As to the darling's stays, it may be time eno' when 
you and I have had a conference about them ; but if a 
good air is not settled from the beginning, it is as diffi- 



1 Lord Beauchamp's first wife (daughter of Viscount Windsor) died in 1772. 
He married secondly, in 1776, Isabella Anne Ingram Shepherd, eldest daughter 
and coheir of Charles Ingram, 9th Viscount Irvine. 



498 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

cult to be attained afterwards as good manners if ne- 
glected. Is not the nurse in raptures with, the dear 
child? 

I have galloped about this week, and I nutter in the 
sun like a butterfly ! I am now going my annual round 
of morning visits, that I may leave London with a good 
grace when I have paid my debts of honour. This 
morning I made a visit to Lady Dartmouth ; found her 
and her excellent lord at home, tho' deeply immersed in 
busyness ; his friendliness, politeness, and cheerfulness still 
the same. Lady Dartmouth was just going to submit 
to the friseur's tyranny, in order to make her appearance 
at the French ambassadour's ball 1 to-night, where all tho 
fine world are going to shine away. It is to be the most 
brilliant thing that has yet been exhibited, and even our 
dear Dss goes, with whom I dined, and am just return'd 
from Whitehall, where I left a groupe all ready to set 
off. The ambassadour's house is in George Street, 
West r . 

Lady Bute and her two daughters, Lady Weymouth 
most splendid in Jewells, but in came Mrs. Montagu, who 
rivalVd her in sparkling gems. I could not help calling 
to mind (on seeing her so beset with Jewells) Lady 
Clarendon's answer to Lady Granville, when she ask'd 
her " what was become of her Jewells ?" (as she had not 
seen them a great while). " They are in my cabinet. 
When my eyes outshone my diamonds I wore them ; 
now they outshine my eyes I lock them up," and I 
thought if Mrs. M.'s coronet of brilliants which crown'd 

1 The French Ambassador, Monsieur de Guisnes, gave a grand ball in March, 
1773. There were two sets of dancers in costume, one in dresses of the time 
of Queen Elizabeth, and the other of the reign of Henri Quatre. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 499 

her toopee had been in her cabinet it would have been 
their proper place. It is wonderful that a mind so well 
stored shou'd find a corner for so frippery a thing as 
vanity. 

The Marchioness of Tweeddcde 1 to Mrs. Delany. 

Ham, March 18th, 1773. 

MY DEAR MRS. DELANY, 

According to y r desire I send you a copy of my 
amiable sister Shelburne's 2 letter to me on my first coup 
de foudre, and also some lines on both my dear angels, 
which I believe you will like. I can say no more but 
that I am, my dear Mrs. Delany, 

Your most affectionate and unhappy cosin, 

And faithfull humble servant, 

F. TWEEDDALE. 

Lines by Sir Edward Baynton, 3 on George, Marquiss of Tweeddale* 

'Twas a short life, as that to roses fix'd, 
Whose youth and age in the same day is mix'd ; 
The rising sun beholds them fresh and gay, 
But setting sees them scatter'd on the way ; 
Lovely like them to spread his fragrance wide, 
Like them he faded drooped his head and died. 

Addition by the Rev. Mr. W. Cooke, 

But, as when warmer suns and milder skies 
Bid the lost beauties of the Spring arise, 
Call the sunk flower in piirpler honours forth 
From the cold bosom of its mother earth 



1 Frances, daughter of John, Earl Granville. 

2 Sophia, youngest daughter of John, Earl Granville, by his second wife, 
Lady Sophia Fermor. 

3 Edward Eolt, Esq., second son of the heiress of the Bayntuns, assumed 
the name of Bayntun, and was created a Baronet in 1762, as Sir Edward 
Bayntun-Rolt, of Spye Park. 

4 " The most noble George, Marquis of Tweeddale, Earl of Gifford, Viscount 
Walden and Peebles, and Baron Yester, in the 13th year of his age, died 5th 
Oct. (1770)." 



500 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

So shall he spring to everlasting day, 
Call'd forth by angels from encnmb'ring clay, 
In happier climes, immortal from the tomb, 
To rise and flourish with superior bloom. 



STANZAS 
Sacred to the memory 

of 
The Right Honourable the Lady Grace HayJ- 

Whose endearing sweetness of disposition and 

Innocent sensibility of heart, 

Joined to strong sense and a discerning judgement, 
Rendered her equally lamented and esteemed. 



Say ! ye great guardian angels, who convey 
Departed mortals with a seraph's flight, 
Through fiery regions and a starry way, 
To golden vales, and seas of liquid light, 

Say ! bright conductors, did you ever lead 
A soul so spotless to the bless'd abode, 
Or e'er present, amongst the happy dead, 
A fairer spirit at the throne of God ? 

Say ! how the heavenly Host with ardour strove, 
And joyed to see their own high natures joined, 
Their heartfelt charities and pious love, 
To mortal virtues and a female mind. 

May her sweet form in sacred peace repose 
Where budding flowers perfume the ambient air, 
While from her moss-grown grave the blushing rose 
Shall spring, as she short-lived, as she so fair. 

Tho' dead, her virtuous praise shall ever live, 
And in each pitying tale for ever bloom, 
And still superior to decay survive 
The sting of death and silence of the tomb. 

Entranced in joys ineffable her soul 
Swims in the fulness of those bless'd retreats, 
And views unmoved the vanities that rowl 
On earth, far placed beneath those happy seats. 



1 " The Right Hon. Lady Grace Hay, daughter of the Marquis of Tweeddale, died 2Cth 
Aug., 1771." 



OF MRS. DELANY. 501 

Hence then all tears, and sighs and piercing groans, 

For why should Sorrow, in her sables clad, 
All plaintively despairing pour her moans 

In empty wailings, impotently sad ? 
Or why should Memory, o'er the unfeeling clay, 

Sit lonely pensive, with her streaming eyes, 
And consecrate to endless grief the day 

That gave another angel to the skies ? 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, 7th May, 1773. 

So kind and so agreeable a letter as that I had the 
pleasure to receive from you, my dear madam, well de- 
serves to be instantly acknowledged ; and so it was by 
my heart, tho' not by my hand. My new villa has 
occupy'd those mornings which us'd to be partly em- 
ploy'd at my desk. I have not yet sign'd, seal'd, and 
deliver'd, but there is not, I believe, anything wanting to 
that ceremony but a little more alertness in my lawyer. 
I wish you may like it, and that will go a great way 
towards putting it higher in my estimation than now it 
stands, for hitherto I have been apt to consider it with a 
critick's eye, rather discovering its blemishes than its 
beauties ; but when it comes to be quite my own, I think 
it very possible I may reverse this conduct and be 

" To all its faults a little blind, 
To all its beauties very kind." 

But, my dear madam, how shall we ever talk about 
beauties to you, unless you could forget those you are 
now beholding ? * What a description do you give of 



1 Ham. 
PART II. VOL. I. 2 L 



502 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

those fine romantic scenes; 1 I long to see them, and yet 
I don't believe I cou'd clamber with you, "mais vous 
madame vous grimpez les rochers gaillardement," pro- 
vided you have the company you like, and then you 
return with that pretty rosebud z which adorns your home 
scene. Pray tell dear Mrs. Port how much I interest 
myself in her happiness and health. As Mrs. Port rides, 
and as it will be May one of these days (tho' at this pre- 
sent, writing by a good fire, more like Christmas), I 
have no doubt but you will leave her much restor'd and 
recover'd ; car la jeunesse revient de loin. 

Mr. A. Foley 3 was marry'd to-day, which you pro- 
bably know from the fountain head, to whom I wish all 
that happiness in this young son w ch he seems hitherto 
to have failed of in his elder ones. We talk much of Lady 
Craven, 4 and have a variety of stories, w ch I shall not 
employ my pen to string for you, car elles ne sont point 
rangees, ni si nettes que des perles. This evening Mrs. 
A. Pitt made me a visit; I think she looks better than 
she did. She asked me if I had not admir'd the white 
face of her house, but said not a word of parting with it. 
Adieu, my dear madam. I do assure you the Dss of 
Portland looks exceedingly well, which is the best news 
I can tell you. My daug r joins me in a thousand good 
wishes to Mrs. Port, her daug r and son, not omitting our 
compliments to Mr. Port and respects to yourself. 

Ever y' affectionate F. B. 

i Ham. 

a " Tfiat pretty rosebud." Mrs. Delany's niece, Georgina Mary Ann Port. 

3 Andrew, third son of Thomas Folcy, Baron Foley, of Whitley Court, and 
of his wife, Grace Granville, daughter of George, Lord Lansdown. He 
married, in 1773, Elizabeth, daughter and heir of Boulter Tomlinson, Esq. 

4 Afterwards Margravine of Anspach. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 503 

Mrs. Delany to Rev. John Dewes, at Calwich. 

St. James's Place, May 25th, 1773. 

I gave an account of my safe arrival last post to Ham, 
which I suppose they communicated, tho' your brother 
Bernard said he was to write and would make my excuse, 
as I was a good deal tired with my expeditious journey. 
I thank God the waters (tho 5 frightfull) were passable, 
and afforded me an extraordinary scene. I could com- 
pare it to nothing but the first appearance of land after 
the Deluge. Had I been aware of such a flood I should 
have avoided the terror of it ; but it was very sudden, 
and hardly ever known at such a time of the year. I 
was unhappy to leave my dear brother in so weak a 
state, and very anxious to know how he does now, and 
am sure you will give me all the satisfaction you can, 
and make my kindest compliments to him. The Coun*- 
cellors are so good as to call on me every day, and 
dined here on Monday. I found the Duchess of Port- 
land in town, engaged to go to Portsmouth to see the 
fleet at Spithead, and alas ! as she set out yesterday 
morning, I fear she has been saddly disappointed, for it 
has rained incessantly. She returns on Thursday, and 
proposes we shall go to Bulstrode on Friday. I have 
enquired of news from the few I have seen, have met 
with none worth relating, but the tittle-tattle that comes 
in my way you shall have, and make y e -best of it. The 
affair at Salt Hill undetermined ; most people think it 
was the wine, but it is as violently debated as if a 
political dispute. The next thing is y e remains of I/ 
C 's shocking behaviour, which is more like mad- 
ness than anything else. She won't move out of 
her bed, put on her cloathes or off, but it is done by 

2 L 2 



504 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

force. She won't answer any queestion that can either 
serve to justify her. L d C. with the greatest generosity 
offers her the kindest terms if she will confess, and 
offers to screen her as much as possible from what 
the world may say, but in vain. Mon r de Gr. 1 denies 
the honour, and the world gives it to the D ke de 
Lau ne. 2 The innocent amusements are as follows : 

My fine neighbour, Lady Clermont, 3 sent cards last 
week to a few of her acquaintance, (not exceeding 300,) 
" to drink tea and walk in the park." I say it should 
have been " to eat rusks and drink milk under the cow," 
and that " umbrellas were provided in case of rain." Her 
Grace of Bloomsbury, 4 immediately after, sent her cards 
to invite " to drink tea and walk in the fields," which I 
suppose her Gr. proposed to have properly illuminated. 
Lady Teat proposes following this new way of invita- 
tion, and to give her entertainment in Berkley Square^ 
his Majesty's statue in the middle to serve as a lustre ! 
I met a letter on the road from Mr. Foley, with thanks 
for all congratulations, and that he should have written 
to Mr. Granville to have acquainted him with the day of 
the marriage, but was afraid it would be [troublesome ; 
his best wishes attend him. There are two little vo- 
lumes come out on " the improvement of y e mind," 5 
addressed to a little girl of fifteen (from Mrs. Chapone 



1 Monsieur de Guisnes, the French Ambassador. 

2 The Duke de Lauzun. 

3 " Lady Clermont." Frances, daughter of Colonel John Murray, and wife 
of William Henry Fortescue, created Baron Clermout in 1770, Viscount Cler- 
mont in 1776, and Earl of Clermont in 1778. 

4 The Duchess of Bedford lived in Bloomsbury Square. 

5 Letters on the Improvement of the Mind, addressed to a Young Lady, 
by Hitter Chapone. 



OF MBS. DELANY. 505 

to her niece), that I will send my brother the first 
opportunity ; they appear to be upon the best plan I have 
ever met on the subject. It is plain truth in an easy 
elegant style, and the sentiments natural and delicate. 
I have just finish'd it, which has insensibly lead me to 
give my opinion of it, which I did not intend doing, but 
as it has given me pleasure and edification I cannot for- 
bear sending it the first opportunity. It sells prodi- 
giously. One should hope from that, tlio there are many 
corrupted minds, there are also many ready to listen to 
the voice of the charmer. Adieu. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

St. J. P., 28th May, 1773. 

Eight long tedious days are past since I said adieu to 
the dear friends at Ham, and only once have I heard 
since that day. I trust all things are going on well, and 
hereafter I shall only expect once a week an account 
from some kind hand. I am at present in the state of a 
child that is weaning, which must be by degrees ; and in 
truth, my dearest Mary, all things considered, I am not 
so very unreasonable neither, when you recollect that the 
dear lines I received this day se'night were written on the 
very day of separation, and that 1 had been accustomed 
for a few precious weeks to an hourly information of 
what is most dear to me. I have promised our dear Dss 
to attend her to-day to Bulstrode, but George is to stay 
till evening in hopes of bringing me a letter, the cordial I 
want. And now having vented the furiousnfes of my 



506 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

spleen, I will make some amends by telling you all the 
news that has pass'd within my little circle. 

Tuesday last, in the evening, I had a visit from the 
Dean of York, Lady And., and Lady M. Mordaunt, 
Lady Wall d . Wednesday morning, Mr. Montagu, Lord 
Willoughby, and your bro re : in the evening, poor Mrs. 
Dashwood (who looks sadly), Mrs. Fountayne, again 
Mr. Montagu and his fine cousin, who introduced Dr. 
Beattie l and his pretty little wife, left them with me 
(a precious depo 1 ), and whisper'd aloud in my ear that 
she " was going on important business to the Archbishop of 
York," then whisked away like a goddess in a cloud ! 
To her succeeded Lady Weymouth and Lord Dartmouth. 
Lady M. M. has called on me 3 times. Nothing can be 
kinder than her enquiries ; indeed, I may say so of all ; 
except the Xtian Philosopher, and he has not the honour 
of knowing you. I was rather sorry he came at a time 
when I could have no opportunity of entering into con- 
versation with him. He is plain in his appearance, a 
sensible honest countenance, his manner very modest and 
civil, not the least appearance that he is conscious of his 
superior talents and merits. It was a satisfaction to me 
to see so extraordinary a personage, tho' perhaps we may 
never meet again. I shall read his works with more 
pleasure for this short acquaintance. 

Yesterday morning Lady M. M. again, and Mrs. Cot- 
terell, who stumbled upon me by chance, and diverted 
us both for an hour. In the evening L y Bute drank tea 
with me. In the whirl of my company I forget Mrs. 
A. Pitt and Mrs. Boscawen, who have play'd their part 



1 Dr. Jacs Beattir, author of " The Minstrel " and other works. Born 
1735, died 1803. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 507 

very kindly, and on Thursday morning the Miss Foleys 
came in full sail from Court, where they had seen young 
Lady Townshend 1 presented, and a whole possy of her 
family. Various are the opinions of her beauty. The 
men say " she is handsome," the ladies that " she is 
pretty." Lady Emily D'Arcy has at last obtain'd her 
wish, and is certainly to be married to Lord Caermar- 
then. 2 Her warm assiduity has thaw'd the ice, and the 
Adonis is gratefull. 

The next subject of conversation is the declaration of 
the validity of the Duke of G's marriage. He sent to 
his bro r to desire proper persons might be sent to take 
the proofs of his marriage, that the child (hourly ex- 
pected) might be legitimated. The AB. of C., L d C r , 
and the B. of Lon., attended his E. H. by order from 
y e K. When evidences were ask'd for, none were to be 
had ; no register ! no certificate ! and no witness ; the 
person that married them dead, and nothing remain'd 
but the oath of the D. and Dss of G. 1 that they were 
married, which it seems the law allows to be sufficient 
to legitimatize the child, but not to obtain a dowry for 
the mother, which seems "hard, but the reason is, the 
child is innocent, but the mother guilty of neglect ! so 
the marriage in equity is admitted, but they remain still 
in the same situation as to Court. The younger b r and 



1 George, 4th Viscount Townshend, married, secondly, in 1773, Anne, 
daughter and coheir of Sir William Montgomery, Bart. 

2 Francis Godolphin Osborne, Marquess of Carmarthen, married, in 177,3, 
Amelia, only daughter and heir of Robert D'Arcy, Earl of Holderuesse. The 
Marquis succeeded to the Dukedom of Leeds on the death of his father, 
Thomas, 4tl^Duke of Leeds. 

3 H. R. H. the Duke of Gloucester married Maria, widow of James, 2nd 
Earl of Waldegrave, and daughter of Sir Edward Walpole. 



508 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

his Dss have come off triumphant, for they produced 
every proof that could be demanded. So ends the 
affair. 

Mrs. Dunoyer will send some books to Mr. G-ranville 
as soon as Solander's travels are publish'd, which will be 
the week after next. I send you in the same box Mrs. 
Chapone's Letters on the Improvement of the Mind, 
which are usefull and charming. 

If I had paper and time I could entertain you with 
the ace 1 of Mrs. M's (Hill Street) room of Cupidons; which 
was open'd with an assembly for all the foreigners, the 
literati, and the macaronis of the present age. Many and 
sly are the observations how such a genius at her age, and 
so circumstanced, could think of painting the walls of her 
dressing-room with bowers of roses and jessamins entirely 
inhabited by little Cupids in all their little wanton ways, 
is astonishing ! unless she looks upon herself as the wife 
of old Vulcan, and mother to all these little loves ! 

I hear the prancing of the horses, so must say adieu 
to my dearest M. 



The Dowager Countess Oower to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill, 28th May, 73. 

I sh d have made earlier acknowledgm u for y r oblig- 
ing letter, and have petition'd for another, while you 
were at a far distance, had I not had oportunitys many 
of hearing of you. I rejoic'd you perform'd yo r journey 
so well, and y* all improv'd in health on yo r arrival at 
Ham ; and y l you was bless'd w th a scene of flomestick 
hupincss. A rare tight. Tis uncomon in May to be 



OF MRS. DELANY. 509 

incomoded w th waters in travelling. All here sorry you 
have suffer'd by these rains. Y e river Lodden has over- 
flow'd its banks twice since I came into y e country. 
Luckily I'm at too great a distance to be annoy'd by it. 
I will write in y e plural stile, like Eoyalty, and L y 
Hyde, to asure you, we wish to hear yo r cold was gone, 
and y l you was safe lodged at Bulstrode, where you are 
always pleas'd and hapy. Please you do everywhere 
which Bill Hill can witness, and wee are at this instant 
talking of you as you merit, and wishing ye D s of Port- 
land was w th you at her sweet shades and retreat this 
abominable weather. M n . M. has commenced an ac- 
quaintance w th M rs . Jones (w m I know y greatly ad- 
mir'd !) They go airings together, and she brings from 
Wokingham a budget full of talking. Her maid Ffalkener 
is acquainted w th M rs . J. maid Tapp, and they are left 
together while their ladies air, so there is gossiping be- 
yond compare. I wish I c d transmit it to you, but it is 
above my abilitys ! I/ Leicester and M rs . M. both de- 
sire their complim ts , and I am ever, d r mad m , most faith- 
fully yo rs , 

M. GOWER. 



T/ie Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, 7th June, 1773. 

MY DEAR MADAM, 

Your kindness took a most exact measure of my 
care when it prompted you to write to me immediately 
after y r arrival at sweet Bulstrode, and the account you 
gave me was so very pleasant : " that you had a very 
good night, and felt y r self a new creature," that I have 



510 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

hardly felt any anxiety for you since, save that I douht 
you was disturb'd, and perhaps got the headache by the 
terrible thunder of last Tuesday night. I have such a 
rage to be out of town that I spend all my time getting 
into the country. I have heard of a mal du pays, I 
think mine is a mal de paysage. Every day I make 
some excursion, else it is not my fault. To-day I have 
been at Sion 1 with L d and I/ Edgcumbe ; exceedingly 
entertain'd with what I saw withm doors, but wanting 
to see a great deal more without, w ch nobody invited me to 
do. I go (thro' much dust) to sit upon my benches at 
Colney Hatch very frequently, and have spreading oaks 
(I assure you) to shelter me ; but this takes up a great 
deal of my time, even had I no other business, w ch is not 
the case. Our great business goes on as well as it can 
do without any assistance, I had almost said notice from 
the other side. The noble ladies have each wrote an 
answer to Mr. L's letters, but so laconic that I/ Lei- 
cester's was of 3 lines only just to say she " wish'd him 
happiness in every station of his life, and was his 
humble servant " M. Leicester. That of your noble 
friend 2 w&sjust twice as long, and she was so obliging to 
say she " had no objection to the lady." But yet one 
must see that they are not pleas d, much less that they 
have any thoughts of giving us the pleasure to hear them 
say " You are welcome ;" and yet, my dear madam, does 
not Admiral Boscawen's daughter with 10,000 now, 
and at least 5 more by-and-by, with many excellent and 



1 The Duke of Northumberland's. 

2 The Dowager Countess Gower, mother of the lion. John Leveson Gower, 
whose marriage with Mrs. Boscawen's eldest daughter, Frances, was then 
settled. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 511 

wife-like qualities, and no faults that ever they heard of, 
deserve some gentler welcome, especially as nobody asks 
anything of them ? But this, my dear madam, only for 
the Duchess's ear and yours, for I wou'd not go about 
complaining, on the contrary, we mean to behave as if 
we had been receiv'd with the cordiality w ch (/ think) we 
deserve I but / am partial, no doubt. Our poor little 
projects of settlement are now before my L d Chief Baron 
(Smythe), when he returns them we shall submit them 
to Bill Hill, tho' perhaps they may not deign to take 
any notice of them. I wish they cou'd think as I do, 
that in this age it is a great blessing to marry one's child 
to a person of worth and principle. Such I am sure my 
daughter is, and as such I did expect she wou'd have 
been kindly receiv'd in any family where there was not 
any great pretension to fortune, w ch Mr. Leveson certainly 
has not. 

I think aloud to you, my dear madam, and you will 
impart all my troubles to the Duchess, with my most 
respectful! compliments, and most earnest good wishes 
to both. 

I am ever, my dear madam, 

Your very sincere, 
And very affectionate servant, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 



Mrs. Ddany to the Sight Hon. Viscountess Andover. 

Bulstrode, 9th June, 1773. 

A word or two to my dear Lady Andover to thank 
her for her goodness in writing to me, and to say how 
much I wish to hear you are better satisfied about Lord 



512 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Suffolk. The tedious and painfull visiter that has so 
long confined him 1 hope has taken leave, and that his 
lord p will have better health for the future. His 
temperance and patience will be the surest means of driving 
away the foul fiend, as he does not love such company. 
Be so good to let me know your motions, that I may 
lose no opportunity of tormenting your ladyship with my 
letters. Most likely you at this instant imagine me 
gaping and staring at all the wonders in the Oxford 
Museum, or hobbling upon the pebbles from college to 
college, or winking and blinking in the burning sun over 
the plants in the phisick garden no, here I am enjoying 
every rural delight (which abound here), and gratifying 
every sense. "Tis true the zest of all is wanting, but 
our dear and excellent friend returns (at least proposes so 
to do) on Friday next. I was afraid of hurrying myself 
so soon after having been ill, which made me decline 
what would otherwise have been a great pleasure to me. 
I wrote to Mrs. Dashwood soon after I came ; I fear 
the melancholy attention she pays her poor sister pre- 
vents her gaining ground, and keeps her low. I hope 
Lady Wey th is going on to her satisfaction w th her 
nursery, and beg y r lady p will be so good as *to make 
my affec te complim* 8 acceptable to Miss F. EL, and to 
those friends above mention'd. 

I am ever y r ladyship's most affectionate, 

And obed 1 hum 16 ser 1 , 

M. DEL ANY. 

I think Mr. L. has made a good choice, and hope he 
will make my young friend happy, as I really think her 
very deserving. 



OF HER. DELANY. 513 

Mrs. Port is at Buxton, and much better for it. The 
D ss of P. charming well and in good spirits. 



27;e Hon. Mrs. Soscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, 12th June, 1773. 

If indeed I cou'd have heen of any use or pleasure to 
you in your solitude, my dear madam, surely I would 
have flown had you sent me a summons. I shou'd 
have lik'd it mightily. I wou'd have sav'd y r eyes by 
chatting, or reading to you, and I wou'd have staid to 
make my best curtsey to the sovereign of y r Elizeum. 
I shou'd have seen her gracious countenance in good 
health I hope, w ch wou'd have given me great satisfac- 
tion, and so pleas'd and refresh'd I shou'd have re- 
turn' d back to my " loviers " and my prison-house, for 
so I esteem every house in London in the month of 
June, when one longs to sally forth every half hour, and 
sit under a shady tree, or pace upon the smooth shaven 
turf : here is pavement, and dust, and the perpetual cry 
of " mackarel !" and variety of ill smells, instead of per- 
fumes and fresh air. However, by one excursion or an- 
other, I get a good deal of the latter. One day I went 
to see Sion (annoy 'd with dust however) ; yesterday I/ 
Edgcumbe carry'd me to Harrow, where we din'd and 
look'd down upon the world below. She found her son 
in good health, and our jaunt was very agreeable, 
sprinkled with frequent showers. To-day Mas r George 1 
and I are going to my new villa, and have put up cer- 

1 Mrs. Boseawen's youngest son, George Evelyn, afterwards 3rd Viscount 
Falmouth. He was born May Q, 1751, and married June 26, 1784, the only 
daughter of John Crewe, of Bolesworth, Esq. 



514 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

tain prog that will enable us to stay out till the evening. 
As I expect the chaise every moment I have only time 
to tell you that your prophecy of good begins to be ful- 
fill'd. Mr. L. had a kind letter from I/ Dow. Gower 
last night, in w ch she says that she will come to town 
next week, and has other gracious expressions that seems 
to promise even her assistance as well as contentment in 
the proposed alliance. This gives him great pleasure, as 
indeed it does to me. He had proposed to wait on her 
at Bill Hill, w eh she does not forbid, only says it is un 
necessary, as she is coming next week with Lady Lei- 
cester. 

Their lady p>s cordial approbation (w ch now I am in 
great hopes of) will exceedingly add to my contentment 
upon this occasion, and I am sure I can promise that 
my daughter in all future ones will be very attentive to 
pay them every duty and give them every satisfaction 
in her power. 

The Duke and Dss. of Beaufort and their children set 
out yesterday for East-Bourn, so that now London will 
be more tiresome to me than ever ; but I must comfort 
myself with thinking of the good w.ork w ch detains me, 
and w ch I hope will add much comfort to the evening of 
my life. 

My chaise is come. Adieu, dear madam ; my best 
respects wait on the Duchess. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 515 



Mrs. Chapone to Mrs. Delany, at the Duchess-Dowager of Portland's, Bulstrode, 

Herts. 

Dated June 13th. (?) 1773. 

A thousand thanks to you, my dear madam, for the 
favour of your most obliging letters, and for the partial 
opinion you express of the little hooks I took the liberty 
to send you. The approbation of so excellent a judge 
cannot but be a high gratification to me, whether I con- 
sider it as the result of your judgement, or of a partiality 
arising from that friendly regard which I have so long 
experienced, and in which I tak'e equal pride and 
pleasure. You are very kind in communicating the 
honour done me by the commendations of your ad- 
mirable friends, the Duchess Dow r of Portland and the 
Archbishop of York. Such testimonies greatly encourage 
my hope that my feeble attempts may, by the blessing of I 
God, succeed in doing some little good, a hope which 
alone could have surmounted my timidity, and deter- 
mined me to this publication. 1 

I am happy to hear that the country air has had so 
good an effect on your health. I too have felt the en- 
livening influence of pure air, though I have not been 
able to enjoy as much of it as I could wish. 

I am very glad to hear that Buxton agrees with Mrs. 
Port, and hope it will entirely establish her health and 
strength. 

How have I pitied the Archbishop of York ! 2 I am 



1 Hester Chapone's "Letters on the Improvement of the Mind" were 
published in 1773. 

* Thomas Drummond, Esq., second son of His Grace the Archbishop of 
York, in Dartmouth Street, Westminster. Died April 7th, 1773. 



516 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

glad lie has been with such excellent comforters but 
how sad must Brodesworth appear to him now, where I 
saw him three years ago surrounded with his happy 
amiable family, and enjoying himself and them with 
such chearfulness and affectionate kindness as it was 
impossible to see without delight ! That sweet youth 
whom he has lost was particularly pleasing to me; and 
Mrs. Drummond appeared to be one of the best of wives 
and mothers ! and how miserable are those who, liable 
to the same evils, want the sovereign remedy under 
them ! I feel the greatest gratitude to Dr. Beattie for his 
successful endeavours -to rescue this nation from that 
gloomy scepticism which a few false philosophers of dan- 
gerously shining talents have so fatally spread amongst 
us ; l miserable philosophy is that, which robs us of every 
hope in the hour of affliction and of the sweet sensations 
of religious gratitude in the enjoyments of prosperity ! 
Do not you honour Mrs. Montagu for the pains she has 
taken to introduce this excellent champion of Christi- 
anity into the notice of the great world, and to obtain 
for him some other re ward than that of barren fame ? 

I thank you, dear madam, for the honour you did Mr. 
Burrows at my request ; I am sure it must have been a 
great gratification to him, and I am particularly pleased 
with whatever may improve your acquaintance with him, 
which I am sure will prove a great pleasure to both, for 



1 In the year 1770 Dr. James Beattie published his Essay on Truth, which 
was intended to counteract the sceptical essays of Hume. He visited London 
in the year 17G3, again in 1771, and yet again in 1773. On the last occasion 
he was admitted Doctor of Laws by the University of Oxford, and received 
from the King a pension of 200?. a-year. He was lorn in Kincardineshire in 
1735, and died at Aberdeen in 1803. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 517 

he is worthy of all the regard that even you can bestow. 
I do not like to trust him on the other side of the water, 
and am very impatient to hear of his being safely landed ; 
tho' the quiet weather we have had leaves me no reason 
for apprehension. 

You give me comfort with regard to my dear sister 
Sandford, though the weak state of her health and 
spirits, and those frequent fevers which so reduce her 
strength, are melancholy subjects of reflection. I entirely 
believe that she has the truest and humblest resignation 
to the dispensations of Providence. But resignation has 
not Us perfect fruit till it restores the mind to its capacity 
for enjoying the blessings that remain, as well as to a 
chearful activity for the duties of life. But this depends 
much also on the animal spirits, and therefore I do not 
mean to impute the smallest share of blame to my dear 
afflicted friend ; and I sincerely honour and respect her 
fortitude of mind and her true and constant piety. 

I have encroached on my 4 th page, forgetting that I 
had not a frank, and have hardly left room to assure 
you that I am, 

Dear madam, with the highest esteem, 
Your most obliged and aff te serv 1 , 

H. CHAPONE. 

Quainton, June 13. 

I shall leave this place in about a fortnight, and go to 
Farnham Castle. 



PART II. VOL. I. 2 M 



518 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Delany to the Pev. John Dewes. 

Bulstrode, June 17th, 1773. 

Mr DEAR NEPHEW, 

I was afraid your long silence boded no good, and 
could you have sent me a better account of my dear 
brother, you would have written sooner. By this time 
the books 1 hope are arrived, and will give you as much 
entertainment as expected. Your brothers call'd on me 
last Thursday (the 9th) in their way to London, they 
waited ^on the Duchess of Portland at Oxford to know if 
she had any commands to Bulstrode ; she pressed them 
very much to stay all night, and said she intended 
following them, but busyness wou'd not allow them that 
indulgence. They came by 12, dined with me, and 
went on to London at. 6. Your brother Court is pretty 
well, but not well eno' for him to neglect going to Spaw, 
which he proposes doing the latter end of the summer. 
I don't think he looks quite as well as when he went to 
Welsbourn, and says he finds himself rather weak. The 
Dutchess of P. return'd on Thursday evening, much 
pleased with her expedition, on the whole. She met 
with an excellent botanist, Mr. Sheffield, keeper of the 
Museum at Oxford, who is going to Ireland for no other 
purpose but to explore all the plants that are natives of 
the place; and Mr. Lightfoot sets out, I believe, on 
Monday next, on the same errand with Mr. Banks, to 
"Wales, to the top of Snowdon and the Isle of Anglesey ; 
Mr. Greville, one of Lord Warwick's sons, is to be of the 
party, who is far gone in the pursuit of natural curiosities : 
I wish he could infuse the same inclination into the 
young fashionable men of the age ; a short experience 



OF MRS. DELANY. 519 

would make them sensible how preferable such pursuits 
are to their destructive ones, on the turf, and at Almacks, 
&c. I have heard no news but in the melancholy 
strain Lord and Lady Baghot's loss of 3 children out 
of 4 of the putrid sore throat ! and Master J. Verney 
past all hopes ! The Bishop of Exeter's son, 2 (who fell 
over the lower battlements at Windsor 14 feet,) in a 
fair way of recovery. We have so many quiet amuse- 
ments here, which suit my friend and me much better 
than going in search for any, that we never go beyond 
the Park pale, except last Sunday evening, to make visit 
to Mrs. Waller at Beconsfield ; it is a pretty place, and 
much improved ; but I am afraid Mrs. Waller will not 
enjoy it long, she is in so bad a state of health. I had 
a letter last post from Mrs. Sandford, from Bristol, where 
she is gone with all her children, who are not well, 
occasioned a good deal, she thinks, from the closeness of 
Bath in hot weather. She herself very far from well, 
and is ordered to drink the waters ; she is hardly ever 
free from some degree of fever, which wears her to no- 
thing. 

As for politicks they are much as they have been for 
months. Those out railing at those in, and those in too 
well fortified by the advantages of their situation to mind 
their railing ! I am now reading the abridgem* of Sir 
Walter Ealeigh's History of the World to refresh my 
memory, having formerly read his Folio. Surely he was 

1 William, 1st Lord Bagot, married 20th August, 1760, Louisa, only daughter 
of Viscount St. John. They had six sons and three daughters, of whom three 
died in 1773, viz., 1. Edward, born 1763, died 1773 ; 2. Walter, born 1766, 
and buried at Blithfield, June llth, 1773, three days after his brother ; 
3. Barbara, born 1768, and buried at Blithfield, June llth, 1773. 

2 Dr. Frederic Keppel was Bishop of Exeter from 1762 to 1778. 

2 M 2 



520 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

a very good, as well as a very great man, and lie had a hard 
fate ! It is strange he should ever have been accused 
of Atheism, for he seems not only a firm believer in God 
and his Providence, but a true Xtian ; tho' I believe it 
was only by his virulent and malicious judge (Coke) at 
his tryal. I am running on as if I was talking, instead 
of writing ; but writing without ceremony is very like 
conversation. Miss Boscawen, the Dutchess of Beaufort's 
sister, is soon to be married to ,'Mr. Lewson, 1 the Dow r 
Lady Gower's only son. I hope lie will be worthy of her, 
for she is a very worthy young woman ; he has a good 
character among his associates, and much beloved; I 
don't know him by sight, but I believe he is upon very 
good terms with his mother, and with his aunt Lady 
Leicester, who has a great deal in her power. Miss Bos n 
has 15,000 to her fortune ; it has not yet been publickly 
mentioned, but will soon. The Duchess of Portland de- 
sires me to add her good wishes and compliments. I 
hope to hear good news soon from your neighbors Mills : 
if you have any bon mots from Mrs. Mervin, pray im- 
part them. 

I am so pleased with a thing in S r W. Ealeigh (which 
I think he quotes from Causabon) that I can't help tran- 
scribing it " Happiness consisteth in a Divine life, not in 
the knowledge of the Divine things, wherein the devils exceed 
us.' 1 



1 The Hon. John Leveson, son of John, Earl Gower, by his third wife, 
Mary, widow of the Earl of Harold, and daughter of Thomas, Earl of Tlinnet, 
married in 1773. Frances, eldest daughter of Admiral Edward Boscawen. 
Mr. Leveson was afterwards an Admiral in the R.N. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 521 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

Bui, 3d July, 1773. 

Your last letter saith that you intended, please God, to 
set forward for Scarbro' on Friday or the Monday follow- 
ing, and I have prematurely already written to you di- 
rected to Scarborough under frank of Mr. Montagu's, 
which letter I presume will rest at the post-house there till 
your arrival ; I should be sorry it were lost, or fall into 
any hands but the owner's, from whose partiality alone it 
could claim any merit. And now having tried both the 
direct and indirect means of getting at you (as I shall 
send this to Ham) I will wrap myself up in the mantle 
of Patience (a light summer suit) till I receive intelli- 
gence from you. 

I believe I mentioned Mrs. Montagu's succeeded the 
excellent company we had here on Saturday, Sunday, and 
Monday. Dr. Beattie and Mrs. Beattie stay'd till Tues- 
day ; then he was obliged to go to town in order to be 
presented to the King at his levee on Wednesday by 
Lord Dartmouth Truth introduced to Eoyalty by an 
Angel ! "Were my little talents in their meridian and 
not in their setting state, I should be presumptuous 
enough to make an emblematical picture of so fine a 
subject. I am in better humour with the thought of 
the King having received the philosopher with grace and 
benignity, and there are great hopes something will be 
obtained for his support ; his present income is very 
small, and arising from an employment that does not 
give sufficient leisure for a genius so qualified to benefit 
the world, to mend the heart, and delight the imagination. 



522 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

He is of a tender constitution, and much impaired by 
study, and the cares attending a very narrow fortune. 
Mrs. M. looks saddly too, notwithstanding her usual 
flow of wit and spirits, and is vastly entertaining ; she 
goes to-morrow to town in order to follow Mr. Montagu 
to Sandleford, where he is gone bowing under age and 
infirmities. 

Many kind services and wishes attend the Pilgrims. 
If Mrs. Fountayne had been at York she would have 
been very glad to have seen you and your little ones. 
Does my little Mary bridle ? and does she scorn to be set 
down on the carpet, or Mrs. Prim in the corner ? 

! for a perspective to see you all in your rambles ; 
but that would not be enough, the same magician that 
composed such a one must also produce a trumpet that 
could convey and return the sentiments that would 
mutually arise. 



The Dowager-Countess Gower to Mrs. Ddany. 

Pall Mall, 3d July, 73. 

As L y Gower wish'd to write to M rs . Delany, she 
undertook for L y Leicester to send her thanks this way 
to y c D 8 of Portland for her very kind enquiry after 
her, will do it herself as soon as able. She has had 
a very severe attack, but now Doctor Warren thinks 'tis 
quite over, and y l she'll dayly get strength. This was 
to have gone last post, but her secretary was interupted. 

Now, d r mad m , I've wrote all this for my sister ! "Tis 
time I sh d tell you I'm most sincerely oblig'd to you, 
for interesting yo r self so warmly in w* concerns me, 



OF MRS. DELANY. 523 

indeed, it deeply does, an engagem 1 for life is a serious 
consideration, and I hope this has been well consider'd 
on both sides ; 'tis to be concluded on Monday. 

Pray w th my respects tell y e D a y e Scotch Moggy made 
an extraordinary overture to Mrs. Bos., w ch did not 
succeed ; I know her Grace admires Moggy and all her 
works ! 

Mrs. Mountagu is prevented her northern journey by 
her usual complaint of opression on her breast. I hope 
she'll soon be well, but it breaks into all her plans, and 
disconcerts her very much. 

There's a report L d Beauchamp is going to be maried 
to y* green-girl L y Louisa Ffitzpatrick l y 4 lives w* y e 
D 8 of Bed.; if it is so, (as I can't credit,) y e D e of 
Bedford's boroughs must be her portion ! I am call'd 
away, can only add, 

Y* most faithfull and obed', 

M. GOWER. 



Tlie Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Colney Hatch, Midd*., 14th July, 1773. 

At length I come to you, my dear madam, and 'tis 
high time you will say : but believe me I have had 1 5 
letters of a morning not to own that I have scribbled 
to my daug r , (never yet parted from my side,) as much 
as might have employ'd 15 mornings. In short I have 
been excedee d'ecritoire, and all my pens are wore out: 



i Lady Louisa Fitzpatrick, daughter of John, Earl of Upper Ossory, and of 
Lady Evelyn Leveson Gower (step-daughter to Mary the Dowager-Countess), 
became the second wife of William, 2nd Earl of Shelburne, and 1st Marquis 
of Lausdowu in 1779. 



524 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

but they shall in their fatigued state express my best 
thanks for all your kindness and good wishes, w ch I 
am very sensible of and entirely believe in. 

I have been encamp'd rather than dwelling in this 
nut-shell 3 days, and oh ! how hot they were ! to day it 
is cool, thank God, and I see my hay rain'd upon very 
patiently, as I am going a journey first to Bagshot Park, 
and then, (as I believe) to Bill Hill. 1 From thence I 
will endeavour to write to you, my dear madam, as it 
will be a pleasure to you to hear from thence, especially 
if I can have the satisfaction to tell you that the noble 
owner is in good health. 

Your affectionate, 
Sincere, and obliged friend, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 



It is true Mrs. Montagu was ill of her astmatick com- 
plaint, but she really began to look very well ag n when 
last I saw her. 



Mrs. Delany to the Might Hon. Viscountess Andover. 

Bulstrode, 16th July, 1773. 

I plead guilty and throw myself at the feet of your 
ladyship's mercy, but tho' I could plead as well as Tully, 
or Lord Mansfield, I would rather owe clemency to my 
dear Lady Andover's kindness and indulgence than to 
my own oratory ! I had the pleasure of receiving your 

1 Bill Hill, the residence of the Dowager-Countess Gower, became after- 
wards the home of her son, thellou. John Lcvesou Gower, and the inheritance 
of his descendants. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 525 

ladyship's letter from Wigmore Street the day before 
you left it, and only meant to leave you undisturb'd at 
Elford till you had snuffd up so much sweet air as to 
recover you from your fatigue of removing ; I was then 
so fully possess'd that I had written, that when I re- 
ceived the favour of y r last letter it made me start as 
out of a dream ; and now I am thoroughly awaken'd ' I 
must return my best thanks, and to make amends for 
past deficiencies assure you our most dear and valuable 
friend is in good health and spirits, has, indeed, enjoy'd 
the shades and glories of her charming Bulstrode, most 
meritoriously how few know how to enjoy rationally and 
gratefully the blessings of Providence ! but she truly 
has a double enjoym 1 of them, by the participation she 
allows those whom she honours with her friendship ; tho' 
no words are adequate to my thoughts on this subject no 
heart can more warmly and gratefully feel its obliga- 
tions. But now alas ! we are going to make a sad ex- 
change for a few days busyness obliges us both to go 
to dirty, dusty, London, the antipodes of tranquillity, 
sweetness, and pure air ; the hope of returning on Wed- 
nesday is some consolation. Not a soul in town, that we 
wish to see. Dash at Petersham, Mrs. Boscawen at 
Colney Hatch, Lady Wey. by this time at Long Leate. 
Pity us as you smell your roses on your Hill. As to 
news your ladyship has young correspondents that know 
what's doing better than I do, and times must be mended 
if anything is worth recording ! 

Mrs. Boscawen and all parties thereto belonging much 
pleased with Mr. Leveson's match. 

I have been under some anxiety for my good little friend 
in Hanover Square, who has had a severe astmatical 



526 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

attack ; I hope she was well eno' recover'd to set out on 
her journey to Papplewick last Wednesday. The Dss 
of Portland charges me with her lore to her dear Lady 
Andover. My best compliments attend Miss F. Howard 
and Lady Maria. I am with true affection, 
Dear madam, 

Your ladyship's 
Most obliged and obed' humble ser 1 , 

M. DELANY. 



Mrs. Delany to the Right Hon. Viscountess Andover. 

Bulstrode, 22nd July, 1774. 

Dear Lady Andover will find to her cost that I shall 
take no hints about not writing, and free or not free my 
letters must pay their homage. I must confess I was a 
little mortified at your ladyship's threatening not to 
write without a frank, and ready to take it as a hint to 
be silent ; but to carry my resentment so far would be 
revenging it on myself, so I take up my pen and pluck 
up my courage, sure of making this a welcome letter 
by informing you that last Wednesday the dis- 
pute about a road thro' Bulstrode Park was decided 
in favour of the Duchess Dow r of Portland, and that 
that foolish, malicious, unjust attack has met the fate it 
deserves. What must those wretches be that could 
have laid such a scheme against such a neighbour, who 
see and hear daily of her goodness and benevolence to all 
about her ? I wish they had all been chain'd at the iron 
gate for half an hour the night the news came, to have 
heard the joyfull harmony consisting of huzzas, singing 
in full chorus's, handbells ringing, dogs barking, asses 



OF MRS. DELANY. 527 

braying, everything that could possibly make acclama- 
tion in full vociferation ! but as the performance was 
chiefly out of doors it came melow'd to our ears, and 
was quite delightfull, and now our dear and most worthy 
friend and all her subjects may enjoy the blessings of 
this place with tranquillity. I thank God she is well, 
and will soon decamp for Weymouth the day not yet 
fix'd. 

On Monday we are to be all decorum to receive 
Princess Emily, who dines here, and industry banish'd 
for 24 hours. Not a book or basket or any delightfull 
letter must make its appearance ; but as I look upon my- 
self as lumber, I plead to be sent into the chaos for that 
day, but find I must submit to an honour I am little 
worthy of. 

I hope Lady Maria ;s perfectly recover'd to your 
heart's content, and frisking about as lively as ever ; such 
tender plants are soon pull'd down, but recover amazingly 
fast as soon as the cause is removed. I beg my best 
complim ts to both your young ladies. I am sure I must 
add in a particular manner the Dss of Portland's to 
Elford. And now humbly entreating your ladyship 
that I may be so happy as to hear from you again, I 
will no longer intrude. 

I am, dear madam, 

Your ladyship's most affect 6 , 
And most obedt humble ser*, 

M. DELANY. 



528 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



Mrs. Delany to the Rev. John Dewes. 

St. J. Place, 22nd July, 1773. 

I am glad you had an agreeable fishing party, tho' 
your conquests were small on the finny tribe. It is 
pleasant to see new places, and fills the mind with 
agreable ideas ; and to those who can enlarge those ideas 
to the best advantage raises our admiration of the Great 
Author of the infinite variety in nature that we observe. 
The Dss of Portland had a call of busyness to town for 
a few days, 'and we came last Friday. In our way we 
stopt at Hillington 1 to see the fine cedar, and were 
admitted into the gardens; it stands in an awkward 
corner not suitable to its dignity, but it is a very fine 
tree. It is 4 y d8 and a foot round the stem, 2 ft. from 
the ground. They reckon it a bt a hundred year old, a 
storm has robbed it of two considerable branches. 

Last Saturday I dined with the Dss of Portland at 
Lord Mansfield's at Kenwood ; it rained so violently we 
c d not go into the garden. The house is much improved 
the front to the garden beautiful!, and there is one 
room finished in the highest modern taste very singular 
and fine. There I saw the finest louri I e"ver saw, and 
very tame and good-humoured, and an extraordinary 
bird they call a " secretary" an odd creature of the eagle 
kind, and about that size a mixture of brown and 
black. The feathers at each ear it has the power of 
setting up like rays about his head ; but generally speak- 
ing they are pendant. I took a rough sketch and send 

1 " Hillington," near Uxbridge, now (1861) the property of the Count do 
Sails. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 529 

it enclosed to my brother, w h gives a little notion of its 
uncouth shape ; I think it came from the Cape of Grood 
Hope. I have got the chart of Magellan, w h was 
omitted in the set belonging to Voyages and the letters 
" On y e Improvement of y e Mind," bound in one vol. as 
my brother desired. I don't know at present how to 
send them to Calwich, but they are in readiness when 
any opportunity offers. Monday evening we spent at 
Mrs. Ann Pit's at Knight's Bridge ; she is quite tired 
of the situation, "finding it so very lonely " in winter, 
and wants to part with it. Tuesday morn g I went to see 
Lady Chesterfield, and found her very low and very much 
alter'd. She would have had me dine with her, but I 
had busyness to do early in the afternoon w cb w d have 
made it inconvenient. She has been very ungratefully 
used by L d Chesterfield, 1 who has absolutely cheated her 
as much as he could, tho' she made him a most excellent 
wife. I ask'd to walk over the house and see the 
pictures, w h I had never seen by daylight. It is a fine 
collection and a charming house. 2 A few days before he 



1 Philip Dormer, 4th Earl of Chesterfield, died 24th March, 1773. 

2 Chesterfield House was built in South Audley Street by Isaac Ware, for 
Philip, 4th Earl of Chesterfield, author of the celebrated letters, whose death 
is alluded to in this letter, and who took possession of it in March, 1749. 
The second Earl of Chesterfield lived in Bloomsbury Square. Lord Chester- 
field mentioned, in March, 1749, that his boudoir at Chesterfield House was 
the most cheerful, and his library the lest room in England, and that his 
garden was then turfed, planted and sown, and would soon be a scene of 
verdure and flowers uncommon in London. The Quarterly Review (No. 152) 
mentions the library at Chesterfield House as still unsurpassed. The pillars 
of that mansion were designated, by Lord Chesterfield, " canonical," having 
been brought from Cannons, the seat of the Duke of Chandos, as well as the 
grand staircase. Stanhope Street was also built by Lord Chesterfield, but it 
stands on ground belonging to the Dean and Chapter of Westminster, who, 
Lord Chesterfield considered, had been very exorbitant in their negotiation 



530 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

died he bought a picture calVd Claude Lorraine's, and 
gave 400 guineas for it. I own from its being very 
highly varnished / suspect it is only a copy, and so spoyld 
by the glaze that is on it that I would not give my copy 
of C. Lorr. for it ! Surely never man made a less 
advantageous use of wit and parts than L d C. did, and 
nothing evinces more strongly the want of right prin- 
ciples to guide and keep the mind steady, and to make 
a man's understanding * * * 

The end of this letter is missing ; the conclusion of the sentence 
was probably " to make a man's understanding " of any real use 
to him. 



Mrs. Ddany to Mrs. Port of Ham. 

Bulstrode, 13th Aug., 1773. 

My dearest Mary, here I present you with a rarity, a 
short letter from your A. D. being stinted in time, 
"winding up my bottoms' 1 '' before my little journey, and 
withal so hot with the vehemence of the weather that I 
can hardly do anything otherwise. I thank God very 
well, as is our dear friend ; she sets out on Monday next, 



with him for the land on which Chesterfield House was erected, as well as his 
houses in Stanhope Street ; and he inserted a clause in his Will, that if his 
godson, Philip Stanhope, should reside one night at Newmarket, " that 
infamous seminary of iniquity and ill-manners," during the course of the 
races there, &c., &c., that he should forfeit the sum of five thousand pounds 
for the use of the Dean and Chapter of Westminster. In reference to the 
above clauses, the Earl of Chesterfield said that he had inserted the names of 
the Dean and Chapter of Westminster because he was convinced that, if the 
penalty was incurred, they would be certain to claim it. 



OP MRS. DELANY. 531 

and I propose doing the same, tho' different ways we 
run ! Many thanks for your dear and most satisfactory 
letter, pray Grod bless you and yours. Dr. Portland and 
I consulting about you, and think you will delay your 
journey too long if you don't go till the end of Sept r . 
The weather in all probability will be changed to cold, 
and perhaps damp, which may perhaps hazard your 
catching cold. There is another caution she desires me 
to add, which is, not to go out the morning you bathe 
till after breakfast. And now for the other affair of con- 
sequence, Mr. Max. I can get no information about 
him till I know more particulars about him, and you 
must be as explicit as you can, as there are several of 
that name, and I have no acquaintance with any but 
those that are immediately of Lord Farnham's family ; 
he has but two brothers, one the Bishop of Meathe, the 
other Mr. Barry Maxwell, a lawyer ; but I am not sure 
he is alive. You said in one of your letters he knew me, 
but I have no distinct recollection of him. What is his 
person, his Xtian name, his profession, and his fortune 
according to his own account ? And I can easily get in- 
formation of the truth. I shall be very cautious where a 
person of so much worth is concerned, and happy to be 
of any real use to her. 

I am delighted with the dear little man's thriving 
state, and his dear sister's schollarship. You may teach 
her the alphabet by rote, as she has so excellent an ear 
and memory, and she will soon be acquainted with it with 
her eyes. 

I am sincerely glad all goes on so well at Norbury. 
The spinsters are in town, but where I know not, and 
not from themselves that they are there ; I hope to 



532 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

catch them. I am impatient to hear the event of Mr. G's 
cause. It is impossible to write a short letter to my 
dearest Mary even without saying a word of the kindness 
that fills my heart. Every good wish attends Ham from 
Bulstrode. Adieu. 

The Duchess of P. expects some plants from Eousseau, 
and will write to him when she receives them, which 
will hardly be these 1 days or fortnight. 



The Uon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Colney Hatch, Midd*, 15th Aug., 1773. 

Oh wicked Barnet races ! but for which I might hope 
for the honour and pleasure of seeing my dear Mrs. 
Delany in this little nest. You come to town on Mon- 
day. Next day and the two following will the road be 
cover'd (as I am told) by drunken creatures and flying 
coaches. However, I will not despair of seeing you, my 
dear madam, for I must be in London on Thursday even- 
ing, and I will set out so early in the morning that I 
may go the strait road, and be able to do my business so 
as to have an hour to spare to wait on you in the even- 
ing ; for indeed, indeed, I shall be glad to see you. I 
don't know if you are angry with me for not having 
yet answer'd your last charming letter, but I believe you 
wou'd if you knew the reason, and that I waited for my 
son to give me a frank. Him I expect to-day, and there- 
fore shou'd indeed have wrote to you to-morrow. Now 
as I am to direct to St. James's Place, 'tis an affair of 
the penny post, and I want not his franks. Apropos, if 



OF MRS. DELANY. 533 

you want any, pray write me a penny post letter the 
minute you receive this directed to Colney Hatch, Midd*. 
Set a copy of directions. I have paper, and will bring 
you as many franks as you please. As I depend also 
upon bringing you my little personnage on Thursday 
evening, I will shorten my discourse at present, and only 
say that I am most truly, my dear mad m , 

Y r affectionate serv*. 



Mr. Court Dewes to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

Brussels, 20th Aug., 1773. 

DEAR SISTER, 

I arrived here last night. We left Calais Tues- 
day morning, and slept at Bethune. Got pretty soon to 
Lille the next morning, where we stayed and remained 
part of the day. To Ghent Thursday, and yesterday 
here. Such storms of thunder and lightning I have 
seldom seen, w cb began soon after we left y e ship, and 
have continued ever since. Last year I had hardly a 
bad day, but I have now what I wanted then, (which will 
make almost any weather agreeable) a tolerable share of 
health. You see we have travelled pretty quick, yet I 
have seen again w th my fellow traveller most of y e re- 
markable places I visited last year, and there are few y* 
will not bear a second inspection. Mr. Coke has a chaise 
of his own, and we have contrived to take Mr. Brooke 
Boothby into it, who, tho' he has something finical in his 
first appearance, is an agreeable, well-informed man. This 
place is now full of English going and returning to Spa. 
I hear they have had a very bad season, and a great deal 

PART II. VOL. I. 2 N 



534 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

of rain, which makes me hope we may have a fine arriere 
saison. 

Among other people here is Lady A. C., who ran away 
a fortnight ago with Captain C. They say she now 
begins to be very unhappy, and frequently falls into hys- 
terics ; indeed, I cannot conceive a more melancholy 
situation, when a young person, after a step of y e sort, in 
a foreign country, at a distance from her friends, finds 
y e illusion begin to disperse, sees all her own folly and 
indiscretion, and that it is irreparable ! I dare say Mary 
Ann begins to be very entertaining. My godson will 
not be less so. I will answer for him when he grows up. 

We leave Brussels to morrow, lie at Louvain, the next 
night at Liege, and shall breakfast, if we meet with no 
delay, the next morning at Spa. 

COURT DEWES. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Badminton, 26th Aug., 1773. 

I don't know whether my franks reach'd you in time, 
my dear madam, but I know that I caught my Senator 
flying, 1 and was not able so much as to write a word in 
the cover to tell you that I found your noble friend *at 
Bill Hill in perfect health. I had the pleasure to spend 
the greatest part of the day with her last Friday. Your 
week at Se'en Oak may have encourag'd you to ramble, 
my dear madam, for you have had charming weather, 
and it was delightful to behold a whole county cover'd 
with harvest, and adorn'd with shocks of corn, as I did 

1 Edward Hugh Boscawen, Esq., Mrs. Boscawen'a eldest son. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 535 

last Saturday from Bill Hill to this place. Mr. and Mrs. 
Leveson (whom I found at Bill Hill) brought me in their 
coach, my chaise serving for our abigails, and we arriv'd 
here 70 miles to dinner, found all well, I thank God, 
and were saluted with cannon in honour of les nouveaux 
maries; for there are some here above 150 years old, les 
restes de 1'ancienne grandeur, et des meubles du Chateau 
de Raglan ! ! l We have liv'd very much out of doors, 
the weather having been delightfull till this evening that 
it rains; but the morning was bright and, we break- 
fasted in TJrganda's cell. I was admiring the imagina- 
tion of the inventor, and the great ingenuity of the 
composition, when the Dss of Beaufort answer'd me, 
" Yes, I think Mrs. Delany wou'd like it." Thus you 
see, my dear madam, your approbation is made a test of 
perfection at a hundred miles distance ! Nor did we 
finish the chapter without agreeing that we " wish'd 
Mrs. Delany were with us to give her opinion," and the 
pleasure of her company ; and had there been only as 
many miles as there are counties between us, I shou'd 
certainly have taken one of the carriages that were wait- 
ing in the adjacent grove, fetch'd you to breakfast with 
one good Duchess, and carry'd you back time enough to 
breakfast with another most excellent one, to whom I 
beg my best respects when you meet. I hope to hear of 
her health after her journey. 

My daughters are much your humble servants, and 

I am ever y r faithfull friend, 

F. B. 

1 This remark proves the removal of many things from Raglan Castle to 
Badminton. 

2 N 2 



536 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Badminton, Tuesday 28, 1773. 

MY DEAR MADAM, 

In my last moments and only remaining scrap 
of paper, I trouble you just to say that I have order J d 
a little chicken turtle to be sent to the Duchess of Port- 
land's house at "Whitehall, having heard her Grace say 
that she was fond of turtle. This does not weigh above 
12 pound, is just arriv'd from Jamaica, and was in per- 
fect health when I heard of it. I sent my orders per 
return of post. I sh d think it wou'd be at Whitehall 
by Friday if it remains alive, and have I not good hopes 
too of being at Bulstrode on Friday, my dear madam ? 
I ask my oracle ? I set out to-morrow and hope to lodge 
at Bill Hill. 

To-day I have the satisfaction to see L d Worcester out 
of his chamber and pure well. My son George is return'd 
to school and everybody here in good health. 

If I cou'd be sure of seeing you, I need not have given 
you this trouble (but you will excuse it). I never de- 
pend upon any thing that is very pleasant to me, and 
going to Bulstrode will be extremely so to y r faithfull 

F. B. 



The Dowager Countess Ooiver to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill, 31* Aug., 73. 

I've y 8 mom 1 rece d d r M re Delany 's letter w th y e pleas- 
ing news y* I shall see her Thursday next (oh day y e 
fairest !). My chaize shall be at Staines early enough for 
you to be here by 3 o'clock. I won't wait dinner for 



OF MRS. DELANY. 537 

you, so do w* is most easy ; then I'll clear up all my 
enormities as to paper, ink, &c. I'm oblig'd to go to 
Beading. I carry this. 'Tis time I was gone. Adieu. 



Mrs. Dclany to the Rev. J. Dewes, at Calunch. 

St. James's Place, 1st Sept., 1773. 

I have just received my dear brother's letter; my 
heart is full of his kindness, and I daily pray for his 
support and consolation. I shall send by the waggon, 
Bass, car. to Ashbourne, a little long box, with two flat 
bottles of Hungary water, 3 ounce-bottles of laudanum, 
a little bottle of eau de luce, Mrs. Chapone's Letters 
bound in one volume, and a roll of silk belonging to 
Mrs. Port ; and I have added Lady Eussel's Letters, that 
have given me so much satisfaction that I could not help 
sending them to my brother. They are very touching, 
but at the same time consolatary ; she was a true Xtian 
heroine, and acted a great part. I send the box next 
Monday. I went last Sunday evening to drink tea with 
Mrs. Stainford after chapel, and she enquired very much 
after my brother, and was very sorry I could not give a 
better account of him. She has a brother much in the 
same way, and has found the greatest releife from the 
remedy the receipt of which I enclose. She treated me 
with a sight of three beautiful, capital pictures of Van- 
dyke, that have been brought from Carleton House to 
put up at the Queen's House. Two whole lengths of 
Henrietta, the Queen mother, and Lady Carlisle, that 

' Lady Rachel Russell's Letters, from the MS. in the library of Woburn 
Abbey, were first printed in 1773. 



538 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

has all the warmth and force of Titian, but with all 
Vandyke's tenderness and gentility ; the other picture is 
Phillip the 4 th of Spain, on horseback and an angel 
crowning him with laurel, exquisitely painted. It has a 
companion which has gone to be cleaned ; and St. Martyn 
on horseback too, dividing his mantle. Mrs. Anne Pit 
has sold her house at Kensington Gore, and is going to 
Aix-la-Chapelle. She is every way like her brother ; no 
sooner in possession of a pretty place, but she grows 
weary of it but she is clever and entertaining when she 
pleases. Poor Lord Lytelton 1 is happily released from a 
miserable life. The wretched conduct of his wicked son, 
they say, broke his heart ! When I was at Sevenoak, I 
went to see Knowl Park 2 and House ; the park very fine 
indeed, the house dully magnificent, but I was amused 
with the pictures, of which there are abundance, parti- 
cularly portraits, some very bad, a few very good. The 
present Duke of Dorset has brought a good many out 
of Italy with him, reckoned pretty good, tho' I can't say 
I was much struck with them. There is a Raphael, half 
length, by himself, which I believe is good and certainly 
an original, and there is a whole length of Lucretia by 
Guido, that Sir Joshua Reynolds offer'd 1400 for. 
There is a very good portrait painted by Holbein, on a 
pale green ground, of Aurelius, inventor of geography. 
As I have no frank, I must end here, and will add your 
recipe at the bottom. I go to-morrow to Bill Hill, 
Lady Gower's, and shall stay there till the Duchess of P. 
send a summons for Bulstrode. Adieu. 



1 George, Lord Lyttleton, died 22nd Aug., 1773. 
1 " Knowlc Park" The scat of the Earl Amherst. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 539 



TJie Eon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Badminton, Sept. 5th, 1773. 

Long e'er this, my dear madam, you are return'd (in 
perfect health I hope) to the beloved chateau, and still 
more beloved noble dame du chateau. You found her 
Grace pleas'd and not fatigu'd with her tour, and Mrs. 
Lambard was very sensible of the favour I can easily 
believe. Lady Lambard lets years pass over un- 
notic'd, nor do they carry away with them any of her 
agre'mens. I think, therefore, your dinner at the Vine 
must have been very social and pleasant. 1 I return you 
thanks for the intelligence you gather' d for me of my 
friend Lady Amherst, 2 and the state of my excellent ones 
at Bounds. In return I will send you some. I paid a 
visit this day se'enight to my dear Mrs. Molyneux (being 
then resident with this family at Mr. Southwell's). I 
ask'd much after Mrs. Sandford, and was told by Mr. 
Grierson (the medical gent n who lives with Mr. Bury) 
that he had seen Mrs. Sandford (that is, visited her) four 
times since she came to Bristol, and that he thought her 
residence there had agreed exceedingly well, and been 
very beneficial to her and her family. Mrs. Molyneux 



1 The home of the Lanibard ^ family was at Seven Oaks, in Kent, where 
Mrs. Delany had heen visiting. From the manner in which Lady Lamhard 
is mentioned, it might be inferred that she was then living at " the Vine." 

2 General Jeftery Amherst was made a Knight of the Bath in 1761, and in 
1788 was created Baron Amherst. He was twice married, first to Jane, only 
daughter of Thomas Dalison, Esq., of the Hamptons, Kent ; and second to 
Elizabeth, eldest daughter of the Hon. George Gary, second son of Lucius 
Henry, 5th Viscount Falkland. 



540 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

had seen her once. We spent 3 days very agreeably at 
King's Weston. 1 Next Saturday Mr. and Mrs. Leveson 
return thither to make a more cousinly visit, and from 
thence proceed to Wells, Exeter, Plymouth. Then, and 
not before, I shall know what it is to part with my 
daughter. Hitherto it has been no more than a sort of 
bo-peep, as she has always appear 'd again after a few days. 
Soon it will be serious. However, I have great satis- 
faction, whatever selfish melancholy may intrude. She 
desires me to present her best respects to you, so does 
the Dss of Beaufort. I ask Fanny for news. She says 
Lord Bulkeley 2 is going to be marry 'd to the dau r of 
Mr. Martin the banker, and Lord Hereford 3 to Miss 
Keck, the maid of hon r (not with the approbation, tho' 
probably the permission, of Lady 0. Edwin) ; all this is 
old at Bulstrode, you will tell me, so is Lady Scarsdale's 4 
being deliver'd of a daughter, tho' that news was cer- 
tainly not expected. I have a letter to-day from Lady 
Edgcumbe, wrote in great spirits, till Mr. Pitt sent her 
the sad intelligence of Lord Lyttelton's death, 6 w ch she 
laments exceedingly ; and, indeed, one cannot but regret 
such a man, tho' there seem'd so black a cloud gathered all 
around him, that his evening could hardly be mild and 
pleasant, such as one wish'd for him. Mrs. Montagu 
has really an irreparable loss in so old a friend. I pity 
her heartily. 

1 King's Weston. Mr. Southwell's seat. 

2 Thomas James Bulkeley, 7th Viscount Bulkeley, married, April 26th, 
1777, Elizabeth Harriet, only daughter and heir of Sir George Warren, K.B. 

3 Edward, 12th Viscount Hereford, married, in 1774, Henrietta Charlotte, 
daughter of Anthony Keck, Esq. 

4 Caroline, daughter of Charles, 2nd Earl of Portmore, and wife of Nathaniel, 
1st Baron Scarsdale. 

4 The good Lord Lyttlcton died Aug. 22nd, 1773. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 541 

My son Greorge (who arriv'd here yesterday for election 
week) tells me the post waits for my letter. Adieu, 
then, dearest madam. My best respects wait on the 
Duchess. I am most affectionately y re , 

F. BOSCAWEN. 



Mrs. Delany to the Viscountess Andover. 

Bulstrode, 14th Sept., 1774. 

I plead guilty, and throw myself on y r ladyship's 
mercy. My silence has been too long. I could enume- 
rate company and excursions by way of some excuse. I 
spent the time the Duchess of P. was at Weymouth be- 
tween London and Bill Hill. I went one day to poor 
Mrs. Boscawen to C. Hatch, and found her and Mrs, 
Leveson iu deep affliction, tho' struggling with Xtian 
fortitude to submit to the severe stroke. I met them 
afterwards at Lady Gower's, under an alarm for Cap 4 . 
Leveson, who was returned from his voyage in a danger- 
ous state of health. A letter to-day from Mrs. Boscawen 
has brought me a better account, and time, I hope, will 
lessen, tho' it cannot cure sorrow. 

My errand to London was chiefly to meet Mrs. Sand- 
ford and her two boys, that came on purpose to make me a 
visit, and we past ten days together with a mixture of 
pain and pleasure, but I think her in a very precarious 
state of health. She is now return'd to Bath, and on 
the 27 of August I had the happiness of meeting our 
dear friend at Bulstrode in perfect health, and as much 
pleased with her sea-visit as usual. Mrs. Port was 
brought to bed on the 18th of a 'boy. She and the 
child, I thank God, well, and my heart relieved from 



542 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

great anxiety, and this morning a messenger from the 
Duke of Portland notified the Duchess's being brought 
to bed of a fine stout boy. 1 I am afraid this miscel- 
laneous account will put your lady p quite out of breath ; 
but what would you be were I to lead you where I 
have lately been, to Luton Park ? to a very fine house, a 
very fine park, fine situation (the house not finished). 
It is very capacious and elegant, and after walking thro' 
a grand apartment with a delightfull saloon, and a mag- 
nificent and most agreable library nobly furnished, your 
ladyship must please to go up 42 steps to a very long 
gallery, which conveys you to at least 4 compleat apart- 
ments of large and lofty rooms, all elegantly furnished 
without ostentation, but well suited. As to pictures, 
vases, marbles, and a long et cetera of curiosities, it would 
be endless to recount them ! Lord Bute in much better 
health than for years past, and polite, obliging, and en- 
tertaining. Both L d and Lady B. happy in seeing the 
Duchess of Portland there, and very, very loth to part 
with her ; indeed, we spent 2 whole days there most 
agreably, but when we return'd, I must say, after all I 
had seen, that Bulstrode is wwrival'd, 'tis " still among ten 
thousand eminently bright" exclusive of y e star, that adds 
so much to its lustre. Your ladyship mentions Lord 
Suffolk's having been at Elford, I hope in good health, 
and that the races, &c., yielded more entertainment to 
Miss Howard than they did to you. It is natural to 
like them when young, and as natural that they should 
by degrees lose their merit ! My dear Lady Andover 

1 William Henry Cavendish, second surviving son of William Henry, 
3rd Duke of Portland. He became a General Officer in the Army and 
a Governor General of India, and died 17th June, 1839. 



OF MBS. DELANY. 543 

knows too well how to employ her time to want snch 
trivial amusements, and I suspect that my dear Miss 
Howard prefers in her own mind such rational occupa- 
tions as most of her cotemporarys know nothing of. 

Your sweet little Lady Maria, I hope, is perfectly well, 
bounding like the fawns in Bulstrode Park. This jsvith 
every respect and kind wish for health and happiness at 
Elford concludes this tedious epistle from, dear madam, 
Y r ladyship's most 

Affec te and obed* hum ble ser*, 

M. DELANY. 

The Dss D r of Portland desires her love and best 
complim 13 . 

The above letter has been accidentally misplaced, as it belongs 
to the year 1774. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawcn to Mrs. Delany. 

Badminton, Sept. 19th, 1773. 

MY DEAR MADAM, 

You are always so kind and good to me that I 
have been very unwilling to appear before you in an 
uneasy posture, and tell you all the pain I have suffer'd, 
and the troubles that have surrounded me ; but as they 
begin to subside, I thank God, I will wait no longer, but 
tell you (since I am now easy) that I have been for other- 
wise, and that our palace has been an hospital. First the 
Duke was ill, and cou'd neither swallow nor speak, with 
that sort of swell'd face that is call'd the mumps, accom- 
pany'd with a good deal of fever. However, he soon 
recover'd. Then the 3rd boy (and only weakly child) was 
seiz'd with so violent an inflammation in his bowels that 



544 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

he was despair'd of, yet got over it surprizingly ; but, 
alas ! sweet Lord Worcester, a lovely child indeed, has 
had a very severe illness the scarlet fever and after 
we thought him pretty well out of it, relaps'd, and has 
been in great danger. Thank God, he is now once more 
in a. fair way of doing well. His poor mother has been 
sick with terror and affliction, but begins now to hold 
up her head. This is not all, my dear madam. Before 
Worcester was taken ill, my George was fetch'd hither 
from Winchester for election week. He fell ill in a few 
days of a sore throat and pretty high fever. One night 
he gave me terrible alarms. God be prais'd, his fever is 
quite gone. He seems thoroughly recover'd, and is down 
stairs to-day for the first time. Thus you see, my dear 
madam, I have but too well accounted for not writing. 
I have spent all the days of this month in much carefull- 
ness, several of them in great terror and anxiety of mind. 
Mrs. Leveson escap'd the worst by setting out with her 
husband for the west. Her final departure from me I 
expected to feel extremely, and little thought I should 
have been glad of it, w ch , however, I soon was, when our 
situation became so distressfull it wou'd have given her 
great pain. She was to halt twice in her journey, and 
not arrive at Plymouth till this week. 

I beg my best respects to her Grace. I wrote to Lady 
Gower the day Mrs. Leveson left us, and previous to our 
greatest alarm. My stay here is protracted till I see the 
child a little more ad vane' d in his recovery, but I will 
endeavour if I can to wait on Lady Gower, as she does 
me the honour to say she wishes that I would. She has 
been exceedingly obliging to me indeed. I shall always 
acknowledge it. My dau r did not write to her ladyship, 



OF MES. DELANY. 545 

from a conceit that she dislik'd any appearance of em- 
pressement. However, she had wrote the post before I 
receiv'd your kind hint, and intends, as she told me, to 
write once a fortnight, that period having been once 
nam'd to her by Lady Gower ; and I dare say she will 
be punctual to it, and in every attention w ch she thinks 
will be agreeable. I know not where she got the fancy 
that she might be too officious ? I suppose of her hus- 
band ; but this entre nous. 

The Duke of Kingston 1 is dying, I believe. One of 
our physicians comes from Bath. He told me this 
morning that y e Duchess wou'd have a consultation of 4 
late last night, and he added that " it was a meer cere- 
mony." I believe he meant farce ! She was in violent 
passions of grief, he said. 

Lady Browne has bought Mrs. Legrand's villa in 
Herts that you saw advertis'd lately, and has given it to 
Lord Cranbourn 2 for his marriage. A pretty present of 
4000, at least that was the price fixed. I am glad if 
Mrs. A. Pitt has sold her's to her satisfaction. I wish 
she may find more health elsewhere. I shall venture to 
put this in one of my franks to Bulstrode, for perhaps I 
shan't find my Lord D e , 3 who is often watching in his 
son's chamber, and was a statue of grief 2 days ago, but 
thank God is now cheerful!. Adieu; a thousand good 
wishes attend you. 

1 Evelyn Pierrepont, 2nd Duke of Kingston, the husband of the notorious 
Miss Chudleigh. He died in 1773. 

2 James Cecil, afterwards 7th Earl and 1st Marquis of Salisbury. He 
married, in 1773, Mary Amelia, daughter of Wills, 1st Marquis of Downshire. 
She was burnt to death when the west wing of Hatfield was consumed by fire 
in 1835. 

3 The Duke of Beaufort, 



54G LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

T/ie Dowager- Countess Gower to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill, 20 th Sept., 73. 

I came here extremely well on Saturday even. ; in 
my way met w tb a violent shower, in a lucky place just 
by an inn, where y e serv te and horses had shelter, and I 
had a book in y e chaize, w ch amus'd me very well ; but 
had it been a fine even., it w d not have seem'd so plea- 
sant to me as y e morn. There's a fatality hangs over 
me, y 1 1 must always come to Bulstrode, like y e witches 
in Macbeth ; I hope Mrs. Bos. will break y e charm. I 
rece d a letter from her yesterday, thinks she shall come 
to me the 28th ins 1 . I think it uncertain, for y e nursery 
at Ba'minton is not in a healthy state, and her school- 
boy has a fever ; she says her spirits are low, for she had 
parted w th Mrs. Leveson that day, but I hope under y 
protection of one T who will smooth every situation in 
life, as much as possible for her. Mrs. Bos.'s uncertain 
state, makes mine so ; as soon as I can fix a time y e D 8 of 
Portland, to w m I desire my best respects, will certainly 
see, or hear of me. Adieu, d r Mrs. Delany. 



T/ie Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Badminton, 23rd Sept. (1773). 

MY DEAR, MADAM, 

Pretty Worcester recovers, as fast as such little 
bodies can recover great shocks. He sleeps all night, and 
sits up (in his bed) the greatest part of the day ; this 
evening he will get up long enough to have it made. I 

1 The Hon. John Leveson Gower, Lady Gower's only child. 



OF MKS. DELANY. 547 

do not doubt, therefore, but that I shall be able to set 
out from hence next Wensday, and get to Bill Hill that 
evening, w ch I have announc'd to the hospitable lady of 
that mansion whose commands I have to wait on her in 
my way home ; but if anything unforeseen happens to 
engage her lady p elsewhere she will leave word at 
Beading, and I shall proceed to London ; but I had 
much rather I own make this excursion, as I perfectly 
understand your dark speech, my dear madam, and shall 
have great pleasure in fulfilling the oracle. 

The Duke of Kingston l dy'd at Bath this morning at 
8 o'clock. I am sorry to hear poor Mrs. Sandford has 
so little ease or peace ; as to dear Mrs. Port her troubles 
were ended while you were reading the history of them, 
for her little boy had too much sense to pine while there 
were chickens and puddings to be had ! You speak of 
Durham as if Lady Stamford's family was increas'd, if 
so I beg leave to congratulate my Lady Duchess. I 
ought to be asham'd not to send the Wyat arms very 
accurately emblazon'd, for I have got a cup and cover 
that was my aunt Wyat's, and upon w ch her widow- 
arms are engrav'd. I have had recourse to Mr. Gwilim, 
but cannot find any Wyat arms. I think they are party 
per fess, gules and argent ; a barnicle, interchang'd, but 
I cannot be sure till I see my cup again. 

The Duchess of Beaufort joins me in respectful! com- 
plim 13 to the Duchess, and to you, my dear friend. 
Believe me always most 

Faithfully yours, 
F. BOSCAWEN. 



1 The Duke of Kingston having died in 1773, proves the year in which this 
letter was written. 



548 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



The Dowager- Countess Cower to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill, 27th Sept., 73. 

I have had a letter from M ra . Boscawen, w ch said she 
propos'd, being here as next Wednesday, and to stay 
longer w* 11 me y n she had before done ; till I see her I 
can't name a time for our coming to Bulstrode. As soon 
as wee have settled it here, I will inquire if the time 
suites y e D 8 of Portland. I fear y e hapiness she hop'd 
for among her children, &c. has been much damp'd by 
illness. L d Worcester has had a relapse, and her youngest 
son in some danger, and both just after parting w 01 
Mrs. Leveson, who never was from her before. Twas 
too much at one time. I hope she'll leave 'em well ; then, 
Bulstrode will raise her spirits. 

I can't' help feeling sorry the magnolia must remain 
insensible of all y e fine things you say of it ; 'tis but a 
vegetable, yet one may say of it w 1 one can't say of many 
things, y l in its way 'tis all perfection, it now has ready 
to bloom two more flowers. I hope they won't open 
before Mrs. Bos. comes. 

I hope Mrs. Mountagu is in better health. Doc r Hurd, 1 
and Mr. Mason 2 met at Paplewick. She says y e contrast 
was amusing. I wish y l y e little woman w d move south- 
ward ; she always stays too late before she begins her 
long journey for such an invalid. 

I am enrag'd beyond measure at y e town of Bewdley, 

1 Richard Hurd, D.D. In 1775 made Bishop of Lichfield and Coventry, 
in 1781 translated to the see of Worcester. Preceptor to the Prince of Wales 
and Duke of York, and refused the Archbishopric of Canterbury, saying, 
" Several much greater men had been content to die Bishops of Worcester, 
and that he wished for no higher preferment." 

2 Mason, the Poet. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 549 

for choosing L d Lyttleton High Steward. I c d not have 
thought there was a being, (but his poor wife,} y' ever 
had, or w d make choice of him I A strong, and addi- 
tional proof of y e partiallity of party ! 'Tis not other- 
ways to be accounted for. 

I beg my best respects to y e D 8 of Portland. Adieu, 
dear madam, for y e present time. 



Mrs. Chapane 1 to Mrs. Delany. 

The Autumn of 1773. 

DEAR MADAM, 

I owe many apologies to myself for not sooner 
taking advantage of the kind encouragement you gave me 
to keep myself in your remembrance, but I am forced to 
forgive myself, who have been such an ailing, grumbling 
creature for some weeks past that my pen must have 
been as wearisome to you as to myself. Your charming 
letter before me (the date of which would make me blush 
but for the reason I have mentioned) is a strong proof 
that the task you would lay upon me cannot be in better 
hands than your own. To you it would be an easy one, 
since you need only transcribe from your own conduct 
the means of making old age perfectly amiable and re- 
spectable ; give me leave then to retort upon you your 
injunction, and to entreat you to communicate the secret 
of preserving all the ingenious warmth of heart, all the 
sensibility and generosity of youth, with all the dignity and 



1 " Mrs. Chapone." Hester Mulso, authoress of Letters on Improvement of 
the Mind. 

PART II. VOL. I. 2 O 



550 LIFE AND COimESrOXPEXCE 

prudence which belong to age ! teach us too (if possible) 
how to preserve the understanding in full vigour and the 
temper in serenity and sweetness! and how to unite the 
tenderest feelings with the 'noblest fortitude and resignation. 
I know you will refer all this to the Fountain of Good, 
and to the effect of his word sown in such good land as 
to produce the genuine fruits in perfection : and indeed I 
am much perswaded no other cause is equal to the pro- 
ducing such effects. Yet I believe you will agree with 
me that such an old age can only follow a youth and ma- 
turity spent in constant endeavours to improve the mind 
and to acquire and establish habits of virtue. I have 
therefore began at the foundation, but it is you who 
must finish the edifice. Those of your contemporaries who 
still haunt all the public places and suffer the friseurs to 
torture their scanty remains of grey hairs, would be very 
hopeless subjects of your pains or mine, and must be left 
to the punishment they inflict on themselves by fatiguing 
their poor bodies and minds in chasing after the ghost of 
departed pleasure. I have not seen Mr. Melmoth's 1 
translation, nor any other, of Tully on old age, except one 
my brother made when he was little more than a boy, 
and which has hardly been seen by any eye but mine. 
I remember I thought Cato's discourse savour'd a little 
of the tediousness and loquacity imputed to old men 
(women are at all ages free from it) ; but perhaps the 
author de-sign'd it so, to make it appear the more natural. 
I was happy to hear from Mrs. Boscawen of your good 
health and active spirits, though it was tantalizing to 



1 William Mclmoth published, in 1773-77, Cato and Lsulius, or Essays en 
Old Age and Friendship, by Cicero. 



OF MRS. DELAKY. 551 

know you was so near without having a glimpse of yor . 
My friend Mrs. Smith has a great acquisition in the 
neighbourhood of Mrs. Boscawen, and I have partaken 
in the pleasure of her visits, and am charmed with her 
affable friendly manner, as well as with her good sense 
and politeness. I am glad to see that she can keep 
up her spirits in the absence of her daughter, which she 
cannot but feel as a sad loss, tho' the occasion of it is so 
much to her satisfaction. I imagine Mrs. Montagu is 
by this time in London, where I hope to see her in 
about a week. The last account I had of her health was 
but indifferent. She must have suffer' d a great deal 
from the death of L d Lyttelton, 1 who was one of her 
nearest friends, and who is indeed a general loss. When 
I have the pleasure of seeing you I will read you an 
account of his last scene, which I rec d from my friend 
Mr. Pepys, who was present with him. I know it will 
delight as well as affect you, to see the power of religion 
and virtue in those tremendous moments ! Mrs. Mon- 
tagu in one of her letters to me draws a character of my 
L d Lyttelton which does honour to human nature, and 
which I sincerely believe to be just. I will show it you, 
for it is worthy of her heart and pen. 

I readseveral of Lady Hussel's letters at Farnham Castle, 
and thought them highly affecting and instructive ; her 
grief is painted in the most natural and lively colours, and 
seems to flow from an affection of the most exalted kind ; 
her pious resignation, and the bright hope of Christi- 
anity could alone have supported her in such a dreadful 
trial : a whole volume of the letters is however rather too 



1 George, 1st Lord Lyttleton, died 22nd Aug., 1773. 

2 2 



552 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

much to read, as they are all upon one subject and neces- 
sarily much alike. 

What think you of Dr. Hawksworth's performance P 1 

if he does not love money more than fame he will 

wish it unwritten, for I have never known anything 

more condemned ; indeed it has faults which one could 

not have expected from the writer of the Adventurers. 

I am sorry Mrs. Port did not find all the benefit she 
hoped from Buxton and Scarborough ; my poor sister 8 
has many allarms for her poor children which her weak 
state is ill able to bear. 

HESTER CHAPONE. 



Mrs. Dclany to Mrs. Port, of Tlam. 

Bulstrode, 1st Oct., 1773. 

MY OWN DEAR MARY, 

I was indeed exceedingly glad to hear you had 
compleated weaning the dear little John, and greatly 
it will add to my gladness to hear it continues to agree. I 
wrote Mrs. Boscawen word that the little man struggled 
hard. Her answer " as to dear Mrs. Port, her troubles 
were ended while you were reading the history of them," 
for " her little boy had too much sense to pine while there 
were chickens and puddings to be had." She has been 
much distressed at Badminton; Mrs. Leveson leaving 



1 In the year 1772 Dr. John Hawkesworth was employed, by the Lords of 
the Admiralty, to draw up a compendious account of the voyages of Byron, 
Wallis, Carteret, and Cook. He produced that work in 1773, and died on the 
] Gth of Nov. in the same year. 

7 Her sister-in-law, Mrs. Sand ford. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 553 

her to settle far off, alas ! (tho' in other respects well 
pleased.) The Duke of Beaufort, and Lord Worcester 
ill of fevers, the youngest boy past hopes for some 
time, and her son came from Winchester for a few holi- 
days and fell ill of a fever : all now recovering, and I 
believe this day Mrs. Bos. will come here for some days 
with Lady Grower ; I hope it will recruit her spirits, for 
she loves the place and its owner, and by happy expe- 
rience I know their salutary effects ; tho' I had rather 
our visiters had staid away till Monday, as I think, our 
dear friend has got a cold, and being quite quiet for two 
or three days would have been better. This day was 
se'night Mrs. Dashwood came ; the Saturday following 
Lady Illchester 1 and Mrs. Digby; Mrs. Dash ds spirits 
are better, but her gentleness and natural indolence appear 
at all times so much the same, that those who are not 
well acquainted with her can hardly see any alteration 
on any occasion, but she suffers the more from this want 
of power to throw off any load, yet she strives, and her 
affection to her sister makes her exert as much as she 
is able. She is sensible, discreet, and pious, and those 
are quallities that are essentially good, and will make up 
to herself the want of greater accomplishments: we 
had a great deal of serious discourse as we breakfasted, 
and spent most of the morning together, which was an 
indulgence to both. I gratified her in talking on the 
subject she liked best, and she did the same surely you 
guess the subject? 



1 " Lady Ilchester." Elizabeth, only daughter and heir of Thomas 
Strangways Homer, Esq., married, in 1736, Stephen Fox, afterwards created 
Baron and Earl of Ilchester. Their second daughter, Lucy, married, in 1771 
the Hon. Stephen Dighy. 



554 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

As to the other guests they were in another strain : 
cards and china their idols ; and would you believe it, 
they could not find entertainment enough at Bulstrode 
for one evening without a pack of cards ; and to prevent 
their ennui the Duchess and I were obliged to make up 
a cribbidge party to my cost, for having neither skill 
nor luck, I lost eight shillings ! tho' great was their 
condescention in playing a shilling a game ! They went 
on Monday, and Dash staid till Wednesday, obliged to 
go, being in waiting. I am charm'd with her account of 
the Queen : nothing can be more amiable. All goes on 
well at Dunham. 

I had a letter last post from Mrs. Eavaud to notify 
that she would take possession of my house for a day or 
two in her way to Kent. I thought they were lost, having 
written to them on their going into Cambridgeshire and 
received no letter till yesterday. They have been staring 
their eyes out and breaking their necks with looking at 
the fine Gothic work and arches at Ely. The Duchess 
of P. hopes to see them here for a day or two in their 
way home from Kent. Our dear Mrs. Sandford is better 
and her children, and by this time removed to Bath. 



Mrs. Dclany to Mrs* Port, of Ham. 

(Postmark), 2nd Oct., 1773. 

I have no news to send you ; everybody gapeing for 
the Duke of Kingston's 1 will 4000 a year he settled 

1 The trial of Elizabeth, Duchess of Kingston, for bigamy, took place before 
the House of Lords in Westminster Hall, on Monday, April the 15th, and 
several following days, in the year 1776. The Duke died Sept. 23rd, 1773, 



OF MRS. DELANY. 555 

on her at his marriage (if such it may be allow'd) ; her 
widow'd Grace fell into fits at every turn on the road from 
Bath: true affection and gratitude surely cannot inhabit 
such a breast ? 

I suppose your father and brother Bernard are gone 
home. I always fear to enquire after my poor brother, 
and dread the approach of winter for him ; such frequent 
returns must wear him out, and the languor is terrible, 
but the use he seems (in his letters to me) to make 
of his sufferings will (I pray God they may) support him 
under the painfull tryal. 

I have enclosed you a letter of Mrs. Montague's to the 
Duchess of P on the death of Lord Littelton ; you must 
not show it or take a copy ; perhaps my brother might 
like to read it, but it must go no further than Calwich 
and your dear P ; but sometime hence I may get a copy 
for you. 

Mrs. Digby for some years was afflicted with such 
frequent and violent bleedings at her nose, that she used 
to be reduced to the last extremity. A person, after 
everything usual in such cases had been applied to no 
purpose, gave her something sewed up in a bag of black 
silk to wear at the pit of her stomach, hung round her 
neck with a ribbon next her skin in the day, and at night 
she pinned it to the bosom of her shift. She had one 
slight return on leaving it off too soon ; but on putting 
it on and wearing it four months beyond the usual time 
she expected the bleeding, has not had it since, which is 
now two years. I will send you one for your nurse. 



and left her his whole estate of 17,OOOZ. a year, the lauded property for life and 
the personals absolutely. She died at Paris in 1788. 



LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



The spinning goes on better, but does not take up 
quite so fast as her G. wishes it to do. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of flam. 

Bulstrode, 8th Oct., 1773. 

We go to town on Monday and stay till Saturday. 
The Duchess has busyness there, and will not let me 
stay behind, but I regret losing an hour where we go 
on with our favourite occupations unmolested, and where 
the weather is tolerable, can enjoy fresh air in one of the 
most charming places in the world with such a friend. 
But there is a friend that may make London lose all its 
gloom and dispel all its fogs ; if prudent considerations 
will allow of it, it is needless for me to say how welcome 
such a friend will be, but hardly so if it cannot be done 
with perfect convenience : more I would say upon the 
subject, but have not time, and I am sure you know 
before hand what I would say. I don't know what is 
become of the Spinsters, nor where to direct to them ? I 
ofier'd them my house at their return from Kent, as 
well as in their way thither, and they may also come 
when I am in possession, as with some contrivance and 
their being easily accommodated we may jumble very 
well altogether for two or three days. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 557 

The Dowager-Countess Gower to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill, 8th Oct., 73. 

I ought to address myself to y e D 8 of Portland accord- 
ing to all rules, &c., but I chuse to be guided by reason 
and not interrupt her just now : y n I have a veiw of self- 
interest in it, knowing w* I write must gain thro' you, 
d r mad m . Pray tell her Grace, I did all y e way, and do 
still, amuse myself w 111 y e various entertainm ts I feasted 
w th at Bulstrode ; that y e sky was propitious, did not rain 
a drop, aided all it c d to keep up my spirits w n compelled 
to shorten y e time y* was hapily spent. The plants 
she bestow'd were so well pack'd, not a leaf rubb'd off. 
I believe my long maid put her legs in her pocket, 
knowing 'twas as much as her life was worth to damage 
'em ; and I really apprehended eminent danger from y* 
quarter ! Yesterday morning was employ'd in planting 
'em, and Solomon shin'd as usual ; Laurus Regius I take 
to be a greenhouse plant ; pray w n next you favour me 
w th a letter, tell me if I'm right ? 

I hope yo r stomach has recover'd its best tone, and y* 
health may be yo f constant companion, to enable you to 
enjoy y e sweets of every kind in yo r pres* situation. 

I found a letter w cb s d L d Cranborne * is to be maried 
some time in y 8 month. I can't say 'tis a consumation 
most devoutly to be wish'd for. I wonder wether he 
gives braceletts among his weding trinkets ? 

I am most faithfully d r Mrs. Delany's 

M. GK 

1 James Cecil, then Lord Cranbourne, afterwards 7th Earl and 1st Marquis 
of Salisbury, was the grandson of Anne, Countess of Salisbury, Lady Gower's 
sister ; he married, Dec. 2nd, 1773, Mary Amelia, daughter of William, Earl 
of Hillsburough, afterwards Marquis of Dowushire. 



538 



LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



The Eon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Glan Villa, 10th Oct., 1773. 

The triple alliance at Bulstrode does me a great deal 
of honour in remembering me, and I am sure I cannot 
easily forget the pleasure I enjoy 'd in such company. 

I return you a thousand thanks, my dear madam, for 
not delaying your good news, and that Lady Gower defies 
all cold ! I have heard and felt a great deal of wind, I 
never saw it as I did this morning. A stormy wind or 
hurricane, full of green leaves as well as yellow ones, 
swept over my lawn in a manner that was really terri- 
fying ; how my little bandbox escap'd I can't imagine. 
I see several branches torn off the trees ; my 3 oaks, w" h 
you have heard me boast of, seem to have lost only leaves. 
You will tell me that I am apt to boast since I talk of 
" a lawn " : but that pretty name is all the amends I have 
for the expense of a prodigious large grass plot that re- 
quires a terrible deal of mowing, and to which I have a 
great mind to say : " Je vous fais champ ; allez donner a 
manger aux brebis." At present, however, none of these 
revolutions are begun or even designed. Mr. Eichmond 
came here according to appointment on Tuesday morn- 
ing ; a great council was held, and a scheme trac'd out 
and resolv'd upon, but he desir'd the execution might be 
postpon'd till spring, because there is a wall in the case 
(y e fence ag st y e road) w ch if I build now he says will not 
stand the winter. In short, I am a month too late for 
the execution of the project w cb I had in my head, and 
remain a very idle body with respect to my garden ; the 
house wou'd be glad of many improvem' 8 and indeed I 



OF MRS. DELANY. 559 

cou'd not help planting a little yesterday it was so fine, 
I enjoy 'd it in a long airing to a nursery garden (as also 
in a visit to Mr. Burrows and family). I bro* from the 
former in my chaize a plant with a prodigious long , 
Greek name, w ch I forgot before I' got home, but the plant j 
I hope (being well water'd with this morning's torrents) / 
will take root and flourish. It is to be full of flowers all I 
summer, and of berries all winter ; its name begins with j 
an M and is something like Mucephalus, but not just | 
that ; I think, perhaps you are acquainted with it ; it 
was new to me at least by its hard name, and if it has a 
soft one the nursery man wou'd not trust me with it, 
lest I shou'd despise the plant and its owner ; both wou'd 
be more considerable in my eyes, he thought, for bearing 
and pronouncing so long a name. Monday morning I 
shall have the pleasure of a visit from y r friend, Mrs. 
Chapone. She is in the house of one of my best neigh- 
bours, Mrs. Smith, sister to Mr. Burrows, who promis'd 
she wou'd bring her to see me on Monday. My dear 
mad m , do you want any franks ? If you do pray employ 
me; I will make them up and my son will frank them, and 
we are both very idle folks. We agreed t'other day that of 
all the pines we had ever eat, none equal' d the flavor of 
the Bulstrode pine. One I bestow'd upon an infant ball, 
and it made the middle dish at supper for the little 
misses and their mamas, and must have added much 
grace to the repast, w ch was numerous as I heard. Adieu, 
my dear madam. 



500 LIFE AND CORKESrONDENCE 

Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham, 

14th Oct., 1773. 

This morning I have had a person with me recom- 
mended to you by Mrs. Sandford. Her appearance and 
manner decent, civil, staid, about forty or more ; has a 
healthy look, and says she is healthy. She expresses 
herself in very good language, and speaks French as 
fluently, having been used to it from her infancy. 

I thought she might not submit to some rules neces- 
sary in a private family, but she said she should submit 
to any rules in whatever family she entered, and that she 
always drank water, and no malt liquor. She seems to 
be the very person you wished for, when we talked 
over the affair at Ham. I mentioned to her that you 
would have a neice under your care ; that she must also 
have attention, which she is willing to do, and any sort 
of work she can do, and will do to the utmost of her 
power. In short, if she answers to her character and 
appearance, she will be a treasure to you in your nursery, 
and to that I should devote her. She is about my size. 
She immediately entered into the necessity of a constant 
attention and proper decorum towards children. She will 
not come under 15 a-year. Her name is Hand. She lived 
with Lady Tweedale at the time of the death of her two 
eldest daughters, and can have a very good character 
from her. Her brother keeps a French school of reputa- 
tion at Bristol ; her mother lives there, and her neice 
Mrs. Sandford has just taken into her family. 

I have had another very touching letter from my poor 
suffering brother, who seems to make a pious use of his 



OF MRS. DEL ANT". 501 

painfull tiyal, and says he feels the salutary effect of it. 
What a consolation? and yet humanity will at times 
prevail over all celestial considerations. Such is the 
frailty of our nature, the apprehension of losing a fellow 
creature that one has been so long attached to, is very 
affecting ! It softens away every failure that may at 
times have been too harsh, and every tender recollection 
of past kindnesses prevail. This is meer selfishness ; but 
as Lady Russel (that pattern of tenderness and fortitude) 
says, " Grod, who knows our frames, will not expect, 
when we are weak we should be strong, and his good- 
ness has and will support me on all occasions." I can- 
not comply with your request at present about a copy of 
the letter, I will when I can. Send me that I sent you. 
You will, I am sure, be delighted with Lady Kussel's 
letters. On your recommendation the Duchess sent for 
the Sp. Quixote, 1 and we began the day before we came 
from Bulstrode, and were much diverted with it. There 
is excellent humour and satire in it, and well calculated 
to expose the profane absurdity of some of those poor 
deluded people. Their teachers, indeed, deserve the 
lash : but there is one thing hurts me, which is (tho* 
done with an intention to clear pure religion of weeds) 
making use of such sacred names and parts of Scripture 
in so ludicrous a manner ? And yet I don't know well 
how it could answer the intention of the author were 
they omitted. It is as far as we have gone a very clever 
performance, and particularly so to me knowing some of 
the personages. The dear duchess's cold is gone, and 



1 " The Spiritual Quixote, or, The Summer's Ramble of Mr. Geoffrey 
Wildgoose," a comic romance, by the Rev. Richard Graves, of Mickleton, in 
Gloucestershire. 



5fi2 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

she is now at Whitehall, immersed in the treasures of 
the ocean, Mr. Lightfoot settling all their names (an 
arduous task) according to the Linnean system. I hope 
to return on Saturday to Bulstrode. I have just packed 
up and sent by the Manchester machine the books Mr. 
Granville desired, and hope they will arrive on Saturday. 
I suppose your brother Court is on his return by this 
time. I have not heard lately. His last brought a very 
good account of him. 

Nobody in town but Lady ~Wal d and Mrs. Dash- 
wood. 

To-morrow morning, please God, I shall breakfast 
with Mrs. Boscawen at her villa at Colney Hatch, an 
hour and quarter driving. 



TJie Dmvager-Counfess Oower to Mrs. Dclany. 

Bill Hill, 20th Oct., 73. 

I was extreamly glad to hear yo re disorder was quite 
gone off, and hope London has taken away all remains 
of y e Dss' cold. Very much oblig'd to Mr. Granville I 
shall always think myself, for his kind congratulations 
on my son's manage. Beg w n next you write to him 
you will asure him of my sense of it, and sincere wishes 
for his amendment in health. 

I was inform'd by y e D 3 of P' 9 own hand she had reced 
y e green cattarpillars. They are certainly no curiosities, 
for I've always seen 'em on minionette ; but her Grace 
saying she had not seen 'em made me send 'em, to apear 
of consequence, or rather of none, for I fear y e old gar- 
dener will say he has hundreds I The Dss of K ! (alias 



OF MRS. DEL A NY. ' 563 

Mrs. H., 1 ) must have been struck w th a whim for y e D. to 
apcar a Grand Seignior before he died. She and her 
six women attending w th all humility gives me an idea of 
a seraglio. W th all her ceremony, y e water 2 must have 
lost its vertue before it reached y e D. The vegetable 
Ethiopy agrees w th me, I sopose, knowing nothing to y e 
contrary, therefore presume on yo r goodness to beg you'd 
order y e apothecary to send to my house in Pall Mall by 
y e 1 st Nov. four ounces of it, to carry into Norfolk, and 
beg you'd pay for it, and bid him send w' h it a direction 
to himself. Mrs. Leveson seeming to be a favourite of 
yo rs , I must insert y e ace* y 4 Leveson wrote me of her. 
" Y* she makes use of all y e flowers of her rhetorick to 
describe her dwelling ; y* she walks, or rather runs, up 
y e ship's side w th out fear or hesitation." They'll cer- 
tainly breed admirals ! but my serious reflection on this 
discription is very satisfactory. It shows a steadiness of 
mind, and a disposition to please, and be pleas d w th w* 
she undertakes, for he w d have resign'd y e ship, but she 
persisted she sh d like y e situation, w ch I then did not 
credit. She is, I believe, a hapy composition, and he a 
fortunate man to meet w th one of such a cast. I have 
in this letter taken many liberties, I trust d r Mrs. 
Delany will forgive it, in her most faithful 

M. G. 

Pray my best respects to y e I)ss. of Portland. 



1 The celebrated Miss Chudleigh, who in 1744 was privately married to the 
Hon. Aucrustus John Hervey, afterwards 3rd Earl of Bristol ; and in 1766 
was publicly married to Evelyn Pierrepout, Duke of Kingston. 

2 The water here alluded to was from the river Jordan. 



5G4 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Glan Villa, 28th Oct., 1773. 

MY DEAR MADAM, 

I have half a mind to flatter myself that you will 
be generous enough to write to me from Bulstrode, not 
putting into our account the little scrap from Mrs. Dash- 
wood's * room, tho' I own 'twas a very kind one. I hope 
the Duchess and you, my dear madam, are both in good 
health and have enjoy'd many fine gleams of ete St. 
Martin. To me no day was so fair as that w ch grac'd my 
lawn with your presence. I have not forgot it nor your 
goodness. I sent the franks by a walking upholsterer ; 
I hope his march extended to Whitehall before you left 
Lon n , or I shall be very angry with him. My son is 
gone to Lon n to visit L d Fal. who is just return' d from 
Cornwall, but this afternoon I am to receive the first 
visit of a neighbour, Mrs. Durell. She is sister to Lady 
Sussex, 2 but wnlike her, however, is content with meer 
simple civility, and has not that excessive graciousness 
with which the good countess sometimes keeps one upon 
the stair head in a thousand winds while she inquires after 
all one's family one by one in the most obliging manner. 
Mr. Durell and family have taken that white house 
w ch is a deux pas d'ici, an old looking house, and they 
are come to live in it. I don't know how much society 
one may get out of them, but friendly offices are already 
begun de part et d'autre. They offer'd me the use of 



1 The Maid of Honour, for love of whom Hammond, the Poet, wrote his 
sonnets and died. 

2 Henry Yelverton, 3rd Earl of Sussex, was twice married, first to Hester, 
daughter of John Hall, Esq., of Mansfield Woodhouse, Notts ; and secondly, 
to Mary, daughter of John Vaughan, of Bristol, Esq. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 565 

their cart, and I offer 'd them my assistance in any shape 
on their first arrival, w ch however they don't seem to 
want, but appear to be quite rang'd and settled already. 
Tell me if by chance you know any thing of them. 

Lady Gower did not go at all to L y Hyde's, and gives 
me incomparable reasons for shirking that visit. I have 
a charming letter from her lady p . She speaks most 
kindly of her daughter-in-law, who on her side in a letter 
from Plymouth, dated last Thursday, says : " Lady 
Gower almost persuades me that she likes me. This I am 
sure of: the illusion is so pleasing I shan't willingly 
relinquish the idea, and do every thing I can to keep 
alive these kind sentiments towards me." Now I do 
not believe it is any illusion at all, for I take it L y G. 
is not at all apt to seem to be be any thing she is not ; 
and she has given Mrs. Leveson a very kind proof that 
she thinks of her by getting something for her that she 
heard her say she wanted ; I think this is one proof of 
affection, and a much pleasanter still is the partial 
manner in w ch she always speaks of her, and the 'good 
opinion she never fails to express, and w ch therefore I 
doubt not she entertains of her. I do believe my dear 
Fanny is very desirous of her favour and friendship, and 
will cultivate it with the greatest attention. The word 
" daughter" in her vocabulary means so much real affec- 
tion, duty, and tender attachment that Lady Gower has 
acquir'd a child rather than lost one by her son's marriage. 
My dear madam, I have been at a neighbour's house 
to-day, where I saw a curious old picture of a delightful 
old woman, that I shou'd certainly have carry 'd you to 
look at, had I known of it. It cost 500, is a small 
portrait, painted long ago and infinitely labour'd. I think 

PART II. VOL. I. 2 P 



56G LIFE AND COttftESPONDENCE 

the Duchess of Portland w d like to see it. The sair.c 
gentleman has got a mango-tree ' from China and 2 
China Daphnes. The mango is unique in England. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

Oct. 1773. 

[Part of a letter, the commencement missing.] 

I think the Bath scenes spin out a little too much 
tho' there are sprinklings of good observation thro'out. I 
suppose all the facts are true, only some circumstances 
of the personages are alter'd as a disguise. We have 
been very comfortable without any interruption ever 
since we returned from London. Mr. Lightfoot comes 
on Wednesdays and stays till Saturday Virtu nou- 
rishes, and his Welsh expedition has added to his know- 
ledge and our entertainment ; he never fails enquiring 
after his friends at Ham and particularly his little flame. 
I have received Mrs. Motf letter safe, and when we 
meet will give you a copy. I have just receiv'd a letter 
from Lady Gower and will transcribe part of it. 

I thought the account of your friend being in such 
good favour would give you satisfaction. I have had a 
kind and melancholy letter from poor Mrs. Mead. She 
feels her loss severely, but is resign'd ; pray God support 
her. I was much baulk'd at not seeing Court in his 
way home, but happy he is so well. My best wishes 



1 Magnifera Imlica, the Mango tree, is stated by Loudon to have been first 
introduced to this country in 1690. 



OF MKS. DELANY, 56? 

and aftec te complim" attend Ham. To my dearest Mary, 
ever with y e kindest love 

Her own 

M. D. 

The allusion to the letter of Mrs. Montague must have related 
to the death of Lord Lyttelton, who died the previous month. 
Horace Walpole says, "Lord Lyttelton, the historian, is dead. 
His son has added so much to his mass of character, by histories 
too opprobrious to be entertaining, that even this age has the 
grace to shun him. But then he is neither a monarch nor a 
nabob ! The vacant green ribbon will certainly not bring home 
Lord Cowper. It is given to Lord Northington." 



Mrs. Anne Vimy to the liev. Mr. Dewes, at C'alwich, near Ashbourn t 
v Derbyshire. 

Gloucester, Nov. 2, 1773. 

SIR, 

I received your letter in Sept r and should have 
answered it before, but staid to let you know I 
have done what Mr. Granville desir'd, and got Mrs. 
Granville's tomb thoroughly repair'd; the iron rails 
painted, and the inscription engrav'd in large, visible, 
durable letters. I show'd it to Mr. Newton, who 
made no objection to any part but the word "scanty," 
which he thought better omitted, which is accordingly 
done ; all the rest is word for word the same, as he 
thought it very handsome and proper. It ivas very much 
out of repair, but it now looks very well again. I should 
be glad to know if I shall send him the receipt I have 
taken from the mason, or to Mr. Granville, as I have no 
frank to enclose it. If the weather had been better, this 

2 P2 



568 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

had been done much sooner, but I hope and believe it 
is well done at last. 

My best respects wait upon Mr. Granville, who I am 
very sorry to hear is no better ; my sister joins with me 
in the same and in wishes for his better health. Her 
kind comp" attend you. I hope Mr. C. Dewes will 
receive benefit from the Spa and have an agreeable tour ; 
does he return soon ? The winter is creeping upon us, 
tho' we have had two or three very fine days. 

I suppose you practise a good deal, and if you are as 
fond of music as your brother Bern d must have great 
pleasure in Mr. Granville's valuable collection. 1 I thought 
Mr. Bernard Dewes much improv'd when he was here 
last, and I accompanied him upon the organ, and wish 
I could do the same by you, who I should have great 
pleasure in seeing and hearing. Poor Mrs. Pitt has 
been confin'd to her room a great while with that most 
dreadful disorder, a cancer, and is never free from pain, 
and sometimes so violent she can hardly bear it. We go 
to her as often as we can, but 'tis very affecting to see 
her suffering and know that nothing can do her good, 



1 "Mr. Granville's valuable collection." This was the MS. collection of 
Handel's music, written for Mr. Granville under Handel's own inspection, 
chiefly by his Secretary Smith, in 38 vols. Mr. Granville had also an organ 
built under Handel's personal su[*rvision, by Father Smith, which is still in 
the family, as well as the MS. music, and amongst old papers of Mr. Granville's 
was the following memorandum, probably given by Handel for Mr. Granville's 
information " Father Smith's chamber organs generally consist of a stop 
diapason of all wood. Sometimes there is an open diapason of wood. Down 
to Cesaut, an open flute of wood, a fifteenth of wood, a bass mixture of wood ; 
that is to the middle C. of two ranks, the cornet of wood of two ranks to 
meet the mixture in the middle. Sometimes the mixture is of mettle, as is the 
cornet. N.B. If it is stiled ' a furniture ' it is not one of his, that is. if the 
mixture is stil'd so it is not. Remark that the wooden pipes are all of clean 
yallow deal." 



OF MRS. DELANY. 569 

but she must be worse and worse ; and Mrs. Savage too 
has had a stroke of the palsey which has depriv'd her of 
one eye and fear she will lose the other. She is gone to 
the Bath, but not the better for it. It is a great loss to 
us, as she and Mrs. Pitt were often with us and we with 
them. As I have nothing to entertain you with, I will 
add no more but that I am, 

Dear sir, 

Your sincere friend and humble servant, 

A. VINEY. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Glan Villa, 9th Nov., 1773. 

It is very true, my dear madam, I return'd you scrap 
for your scrap, but I did by no means pay in kind, a 
most agreeable letter that preceeded it, so that now I 
am in debt for two kind epistles ; if I do not declare 
myself bankrupt it is because I will compound with you 
and send you empty covers instead of charming letters ; 
but you are a gracious creditor, and will be content to 
take such as one can give. I will scrape together all the 
effects I can collect, and therefore tell you that I have 
sent Mrs. Chapone one of these same empty covers 
directed to you, w 111 which poor coin I pay now, as she 
will fill it vastly well. I am at least the cause that you 
receive entertaining letters tho' I can write none myself. 

And now, my dear madam, I will tell you a pleasant 
adventure I had last Friday, and which you will like. 
At the hour of breakfast, my kettle boiling upon the 
table, I took to feeding my robin-redbreast with almonds 
as you bid me, and very generously gave him his break- 



570 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

fast before I took my own j but at a second visit to him, 
behold a tortoishell cat waiting with wicked leer to 
catch my sweet robin. I sally'd out in a rage, arm'd 
with a spud, and cou'd have executed fearful vengeance 
if in that moment I had not heard my servant call, or 
rather scream out " Lady Gower." I left cat, and bird, 
and spud instantly, and flew to the other door, where I 
cou'd hardly discern her lady p in her chaize for a fine tall 
magnolia w ch she had been so good to make her com- 
panion in it for my sake. I need not tell you how glad 
I was to see her, and that this honour was indeed a 
pleasure. She was glad to find the breakfast so ready that 
the tea was made and the chocolate arriv'd in a minute. 
She lik'd the brown bread, and eat very heartily, and 
chatted most agreeably. We sat long at our breakfast, 
and then went to the greenhouse with our magnolia, 
w oh was unpack'd and treated after the direction of its 
noble mistress. She was pleas'd to bring also a basket 
full of carnations for Mrs. Leveson, from whom she had 
just receiv'd a letter that seem'd to please her, so that 
after she had read parts of it to me she said, " I wish we 
had her here." Her lady p approv'd my little guinguette 
exceedingly, but wou'd have had me quit it now and go 
with her to HoKdiam, assuring me that Lady L. wou'd 
like it mightily. I was much nattered by the invitation, 
but cou'd not accept it for the same reason that with- 
holds me from the honour and happiness of being now 
at Bulstrode. Lady Gower left me ab* one ; I went with 
her as far as the turning off to Hampstead, whither she 
was bound on a visit to Lady Salisbury. 1 I hope she 

1 Anne, wife of James, 5th Earl of Salisbury, and sister of Lady Gower, 
died in 1757. Their son James, the 6th Earl, married Miss Elizabeth Kect 
(sister of the Rector of Ilatfield), the Countess of Salisbury, to whom this visit 
was paid. 



OF MRS. DEI.ANY. 571 

got no cold by giving me this pleasure ; at present she 
is on her way to Holkham. I hope there are no waters 
on the road, for prodigious rains have fallen since the 
day she was here, w* luckily was a very fine one. I am 
exceedingly glad the chicken turtle arriv'd at last, I de- 
spair'd and concluded it dead ; what cou'd they keep it 
for so long? in hopes 'twou'd be & pullet? I suppose it 
must have waited to recover its voyage. Poor Mrs. 
Wals. 1 has indeed had various pains of mind and body 
lately ; I am glad she had such a holiday as I know her 
visit to Bulstrode must have given her. Adieu, my 
dearest madam. 



TJie Dowager- Countess Gowcr to Mrs. Delany. 

Holkham, 27 U Nov., 73. 

Mr. Juxton, under d r Mrs. Delany's direction, per- 
formed very well, and sent me a proper quantity for my 
journey, rightly prepar'd I believe. I have been very 
exact in taking it, do not find it either does good or 
harm ; I will persevere because it came well recommended 
from one y 1 will ever have great influence w th me, tho' 
my inclinations don't lean towards neuters of any sort, 
they are insipid things : however I'm very well, but 
want y e Ethiopes to do more, viz., to clear up my beauty 
against I come to town, w ch it does not seem to take any 
part in ! Mr. Juxton, you say, lives in Berks, and now 
and then you tell me B. Hill is in Bucks I Since a 

1 Charlotte, daughter and coheir of Sir Charles Hanbury Williams and of 
his wife, the Lady Frances Coniugsby, married the Hon. Robert Boyle 
\Yals5ngham, 5th son of Henry Boyle, 1st Earl of Shannon. 



572 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

certain Monday you can't imagine y e joy it gives me to 
catch you tripiiig. This moment I've rece d a letter from 
Mrs.- Bos., w cb tells you've had a fall, says no bad conse- 
quences . arise from it, more y n y e pres 1 pain it caus'd ; 
'twill be satisfactory to have y s under yo r own hand. I 
had y e hapiness to find my sister well, and in good spirits ; 
she is very much yo r hb le serv 4 . Mrs. Mountagu is by 
y 8 set forw ds for London, y e great and universal rains 
makes me fear she'll meet w th difficulties from y e rivers, 
being swell'd beyond there bounds. As for Mr. Mason 
I wonder not he keeps retir'd ; to see one he loves, and 
has been oblig'd to, in distress beyond y e reach of his 
aid, must be grievious ! w ch I heard his patron 1 was. I 
have nothing but Norfolk news, and y* of y e deplorable 
kind. L . . d Orford 2 carried to Stainsted under proper 
care. Houghton 3 a ruin ; Mr. Horace Walpole 4 has been 
there and order'd -repairs. L . . d Townshend 5 having 
not paid y e debts he contracted before he went to Ireland, 
his creditors are so troublesome he cou'd not stay long 
in y 8 county . . . Houghton is a large flfield for contem- 
plation, especially to me who remember it in all its glor>/, 
almost tf seat of empire I it reconciles me to obscurity . . . 
I beg my best respects to y e Dss. of Portland, wishing 



1 The Earl of Holdemess, to whom Mason was Chaplain, and who obtained 
for him the appointment of one of the King's Chaplains. In 1762, Mr. 
Montagu obtained for him the Canonry and Prebend of Dri (field, in York 
Cathedral, and Lord Holderness gave him the living of Aston, and the 
Precentorship of York. 

2 George Walpole, 3rd Earl of Orford, who was for many years a lunatic. 

3 The family seat of the Walpoles. 

4 The well known Horace Walpole, who on his nephew's death became the 
4th Earl of Orford. 

8 George, 4th Viscount and 1st Marquis Townshend, grandson of Charles, 
the 2nd Viscount, brother-in-law of the Prime Minister, Sir Robert Walpole. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 573 

her better weather while she stays at Bulskode ; not 
being interested in it here I'm careless ab l it like y e rest 
of y e world, but wish Dec' may be dry. Adieu, d r Mrs. 
Delany. 

The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

At Mrs. R. Brudenell's, in Dean Street. 
Monday, 1773. 

MY DEAR MADAM, 

I arriv'd safe at the most horrid place imaginable, 
w ch is Audley Street, and my house therein ; the latter 
being full of painters, and the former of paviors. Mrs. 
R. Brudenell * sav'd me from both by a kind invitation 
to dinner. I am now with her, and am going to set 
down (from her mouth) the information that her Grace 
wish'd for. The D. of Newcastle 2 had the custody of the 
D. of K's will, but the Dss was so ill (of grief], that she 
cou'd not bear to have it open'd ! At length the D. of 
N. said he cou'd wait no longer and appointed last 
Friday for Mr. Medows 3 to meet him at Kingston (alias 
Chudleigh House). He went ; his sons remain'd at the 
outside of the gate walking to and fro with their cousin 



1 The Hon. Robert Brudenell, 3rd son of George, 3rd Earl of Cardigan, and 
brother to George, 4th Earl of Cardigan and Duke of Montagu ; married, in 
1759, Anne, daughter of Sir Cecil Bishopp, Bart. Mr. Robert Brudenell died 
in 1770. His son by this marriage was Robert, born in 1769, who succeeded 
his uncle, in 1811, as 6th Earl of Cardigan. 

2 Henry Pelharn Clinton, 9th Earl of Lincoln and 2nd Duke of Newcastle. 

3 Sir Philip Meadows, Knight Marshal of the Palace, the second of that 
name holding the same office ; married Dorothy Boscawen, sister of Hugh, 
1st Viscount Falmoutb, Their third son, Philip Meadows, born in 1708, 
married Frances, only daughter of William Pierrepont, Viscount Newark, and 
sister of Evelyn, last Duke of Kingston. Their second son, Charles, inherited 
the Pierrepont estates and took the name. In 1796 he was created Baron 
Picrrepont and Viscount Newark, and in 180G, Earl Mauvers, 



574 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Spencer Boscawen, 1 from whom this ace*, came (I think 
too Mr. Brand was at the opening of the will) ; Mr. 
Medows (the father) came out but cou'd not speak for 
tears. His eldest son, Mr. Evelyn Medows, is totally dis- 
inherited, and is cut off with 500 left him in a codicil. 
The Duke has left every thing to the Dss for her life ; 
and then to L y Fra s Medows's second son Charles and 
his heirs, failing them to y e 3rd son W. and his ; so on 
to Edw d , 4th son, and even to Tho 9 , 5th son though 
afflicted with falling sickness. If all these nephews fail 
of heirs (and only one of them is marry'd, and he has 
no children.) Then the Duke substitutes the 2 d son of 
the Duke of Newcastle to take his estate after his 
nephews, still leaving out and totally excluding his eld. 
nephew, Mr, Evelyn Medows. As to personal estate 
some authors say it is entirely left to the D. in fee ; but 
Spencer Boscawen cou'd not be positive in this circum- 
stance. 

Mr. Eve. Meadows express'd no concern at his disap- 
pointment : his father was excessively affected. 

My fish are all alive, my pines delightful, my gratitude 
very warm ; but my pen will not write a word more, 
nor express how much I am my Lady Duchess's, my 
Lady Grower's, and dear Madam. 

Your obliged 

F. B. 

You will be so good to write me how you do, and 
how y e Dss cold is. I found my son arriv'd from Tun- 
bridge an hour ; his chaise follows mine to C. Hatch 
and both are at the door. 

1 William Augustus Spencer Boscawen, son of Major-General the Hon. 
Julm Boscawen, fifth son of Hugh, 1st Viscount Faknoutb. 



OF MRS, DELANY, 575 

Mrs. Delany to Bernard Granville, Esy, at CahvicJi, 

Xow Year's Day, 1774. 

I caii't let this day slip without sending my best and 
most affectionate wishes to Calwich. Health and pros- 
perity are the two great objects of this world; and when 
granted, are undoubtedly blessings to those who possess 
them as they ought to do ; but as there are virtues that, 
under the circumstances, cannot be exercised and proved, 
we are frequently tried by pain and adversity ; but we 
have then the comfortable and all supporting hope, that 
long suffering, patience, and resignation, are sure to 
meet with a reward from tile God of all consolation. To 
this consideration I fly when my heart is full of anguish 
for the painful situation my dear brother is in. Never 
ceasing my prayers for his support, and receiving, indeed, 
the greatest comfort from his own words full of piety 
and submission. I have indulged the overflowings of 
my heart,, and said much more on the subject than I 
meant to express. 

And now I will change the subject, and talk a little 
more like a woman of this world, and muster up all my 
forces of tittle tattle to amuse you. The newspapers 
have informed you that Lord Guilford 1 is made Trea- 
surer to the Queen, in Mr. Storie's place. He was 
with me this morning to thank me for my congratula- 
tions on the occasion ; the Bishop of Litchfield came to 
town last night. I shall lose no opportunity of trying 
my interest with him. I am afraid the Archbishop of 



1 The Hon. and Revd. Brownlow Xorth, second son of Francis, 3rd Lord 
Guilford, made Bishop of Lichfteld in 1771, translated to "Worcester in 1774. 



576 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

York is in a dangerous way; the last account from 
Brodsworth was a very indifferent one ; I shall be very 
sorry for him on several accounts. It will be a grief 
to the Duchess of Portland; they have always lived 
like brother and sister. I still hope he will recover ; he 
would be an infinite loss to his own family and sons ; 
the eldest will be heir to Lord Kinnoul, and the A. B p 
has an ample fortune to provide for the rest ; but what 
can make up for the loss of such a parent, especially to his 
two youngest sons, very fine youths at Westm r . School ? 
Lord Willoughby is gone for a few days into Warwick- 
shire. The recovery of Miss Verney from the smallpox 
has raised their spirits, which had been much sunk by 
the loss of their fine boy, the flower of the flock. I saw 
Mrs. Tomlinson yesterday, who gives me a very good 
account of Mr. Foley ; he now rides and walks out for 
3 or 4 hours together, he has been very busy at Stoke, 
and made great improvements, entirely new sash'd the 
house, and has made a fine library over the saloon. They 
are all very happy in Mr. A. Foley's marriage. She 
comes to town in February to lye in, but is so fond of 
Newport and the country, that she can hardly be per- 
suaded to come to town. I am afraid Mr. T. Foley 
goes on as usual, promising amendment, and never per- 
forming his promise. At present there is a dead calm 
of news ; the birthday and meeting of the Parliament 
will give some agitation, and most probably may end in 
a storm. I thank God I gather strength, tho' I have 
not yet ventured out even to church. It is I think more 
cowardice than necessity ; and the friends I like to see 
are so kind in coming to me, that I feel no regret at my 
confinement, except not going to church. Adieu. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 577 

[On another sheet.] 

I did not mean to direct the enclosed letter to my 
brother, for fear he might be low, and that it would be 
troublesome, but I have no frank directed to the Revd . 
and I found the enclosed covers and thought you might be 
glad to have them. Don't imagine by that I grudge 
postage for your letters, which I never do. I write by 
candlelight, and with a skewer of a pen. The Duchess 
of Portland, who is so good as to come to me every day, 
is now well again ; she has had a bad attack of the cramp, 
makes many kind enquires after my bro r , and sends 
her best wishes and comp u . 



From Joftn Dewes, of Welsbourn, Esq. to Ids son the Rev. John Dcwes (after- 
wards Qranville) at Calwich, near Ashbourn. 

Welsbourn, 17th Feb., 1774. 

DEAR JOHN, 

I tho* it long ere I heard from you, but you have 
now made me amends, by a very long and very good 
letter, of the 12 th inst. I am, as you suppose, quite 
alone, and have been so for near a fortnight past, during 
w ch time and for near a week before I have had a very bad 
cold. I am glad to hear you are so well ; but most 
heartily grieved at the melancholly ace 1 you give of poor 
Mr. Granville, and wish I knew how to administer any 
relief to him, either in body or mind, but he has too 
good understanding to want any advice from me, and all 
I can do is humbly to implore the wise Disposer of all 
things to be his comfort and support him both here and 
hereafter, which I have not ceased to do dayly and almost 



578 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

hourly when awake, since he has been in such distress'd 
circumstances. The unhappy way Mr. G. is in at present, 
seems to me to be owing to the great dejection of spirits 
he is under, occasioned as I apprehend by his long and 
severe illness, w cb makes him see everything thro' a 
false mirrour, otherways I hope and veryly believe he 
would not have those doubts and difficulties he at present 
labours under. I don't know w r he or you ever saw a 
book in two vols, said to be wrote by the wid w of J. 
Chapone ; it consists of letters of instruction from an 
aunt to her niece, in the first of which letters, entitled 
On the first principles of Eeligion, she puts the foil, 
question, viz. " Can those who think of God with ser- 
"vile dread and terror, as of a gloomy tyrant armed 
" with almighty power to torment and destroy them, be 
" said to believe in the true God in that God who, the 
" Scriptures say, is love ! the kindest and best of beings, 
" who made all creatures in bountifull goodness, that he 
" might communicate to them some portion of his own 
" unalterable happiness ! who condescends to stile him- 
" self our fiather, and who pittieth as a fiather pittieth 
" his own children ?" &c., with much more upon this 
subject as well as others, I think worth yo r perusal, and 
pbably yo T uncle may think so too, and to w ch I w d 
recommend ano r intitled Howe's Meditations, 1 w cb pbably 
you may have seen here, for I know I had it, tho' I 
can't readily find it. If you have not yet seen those 
books, I believe you will not think it time mispent to 
give them a reading. I am sorry to hear of poor Mr. 
Osborn's death, as he seem'd to show a paticular regard 

r J Devout Meditations ; or, A Collection of Thoughts upon Religious and 
Philosophical Subjects, by Charles Howe, bom 1661, died 1745. 



OF MBS. DELAKY. 579 

to the Port's ; I wonder to whom he has left his estate, 
as I think I have heard it said. of him that he did not 
know whom to leave it to. I think the charges of Mr, 
Gr's law-suit run very high. I have little news to send you 
from hence. I suppose you have heard of Mr. [illegible] 
marriage with Miss Sally Wren, 1 tho' I don't reniber 
to have seen any ace 4 of it. My sister Holyoak 2 is lately 
dead, and her son is in a very poor way ; he has had 
something of the gout, and since that his legs so bad as 
not to be able to walk without crutches, and sometimes 
not with. Mr. West has taken Barrells, late L d Gather- 
lough's, where he resides at present. 

It seems not unlikely to me that the inward gnawing 
w ch Mr. Gr. complains of, may be occasioned by worms ; 
however you may ask Mr. Docksey's thoughts, and hear 
w l he says before you speak to yo r uncle. I beg my 
best respects to Mr. G., and am, 

Yo r m l aff* n, 

3.D. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs, Port, of Ham. 

St. James's Place, 5tli April, 1774, 

My last letter told you all that had past till Thursday, 
which day I dined at Lord Guilford's a little snug 
party and ended it at Mrs. Granville's, where were 
assembled Lady Wallingford, Mrs. Yernon, Miss Foley, 3 

1 The Hon. Thomas Lyon, brother to Lord Strathmore, married 12th Juno, 
1774, a daughter of Farrer Wren, Esq., of Benchester, in Durham. 

2 Elizabeth, wife of John Holyoake, Esq., and sister of Mr. De\ve?, of Wels- 
bourn, died in 1774, aged 80. 

3 Grace, eldest daughter of Thomas Foley (afterwards Lord Foley) and Grace 
Granville,'hi8 wife, married 21st May, 1774, to James, Ir.sL Earl of Cbnbrassil. 



580 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Lord Clanbrazill. His lordship and I enter' d into a 
great deal of Irish talk ; he looks old of his age (having 
lost all his fore teeth), but he is tall, genteel, and very 
well bred, and the evening past off very well. Friday I 
went to early chapel ; in the evening our dear Duchess, 
Lady Bute, and Mrs. Dashwood came. Saturday morn- 
ing I had a visit from Lord Clan. I believe his attach- 
ment to our cousin is very sincere, his professions are 
delicate and generous. I hope he will meet with the 
same from Mr. F. ; but should he give her down less 
than he authorized his friends to say he would give her, 
it will be very shabby and very ungratefull to so good a 
child, and towards a man who behaves in so disinterested 
a manner, for he will make the same settlem 18 let her 
fortune be what it will ; but I hardly suppose this can 
be the case, as he, Mr. F., seems well pleased with the 
match. Ge 1 Fitz. made me a visit yesterday morning 
and told me he knew Lord C. very well, and could 
assure me he was free from every vice in the world. I 
thought the intelligence came from a good quarter, and 
everybody agrees in it. Saturday evening the lovers 
came here, and the Duchess of P. promised to give them 
the meeting, but Lady Weymouth was not very well, 
and the Duchess could not leave her till past ten o'clock, 
when my company was gone. Sunday I was at early 
church, dined at Whitehall, came home to Lady And r , 
&c. Yesterday morning, as aforesaid, had a visit from t/te 
General and his lady, and Mrs. Boscawen to anounce the 
Duchess of Beaufort's safe delivery of a daughter ; then 
the Duchess of Queensbery : who said, " she did not love 
to see people sorrowful!, and so would not come sooner." 
She carried me to Lady Westmorlands, and from thence I 



OF MRS. DELANY. 581 

went to my little friend Mrs. Montagu, and dined there 
with Dr. Hurd 1 and her son. No other company, and 
indeed none were wanting but those I want everywhere ! 
The Duchess of P. came in the evening, and I staid till 
nine. These are all the transactions that have past since 
my last writing, little interesting to any but those who 
think every trifling thing belonging to a friend of some 
consequence. To-day I spend at home, and feel glad so 
to do ; to-morrow I dine at Lord Dartmouth's ; on 
Friday at L d Guilford's to meet Growers, Leicesters, and 
those appertaining to them. 

Lord and Lady Willoughby sat an hour with me on 
Sunday evening both well, and their children ; they are 
gone for a few days to Mr. Chester's. No letter from 
Calwich, my spirits sink when I turn my thoughts that 
way. 

I found a little bit of little Mary's Queensbery cake, and 
I eat it for her sake, tho it was very musty embrace the 
dear cherubims for me ! I never pray without an earnest 
petition for their happiness, the best this world can 
afford. Lady Stamford and her three eldest children 
made me a visit Sunday morning ; endless enquiries and 
good wishes after you and y re from everybody. Do you 
talk in the country of Mr. C. Mordaunt's match ? I fancy 
it will be soon. That at Foley House can't proceed till 
Mr. F. comes to town about a fortnight hence. 

My visiters this morning were Lady Gower, Mr. Mon. 
and nephew, Dr. Coureyer, (my lord aforesaid,) and Mr. 



1 Dr. Richard Hurd, Ai'chdeacon of Gloucester in 1767, Bishop of Li tch field 
and Coventry in 1775. He was preceptor to George IV. and the Duke of 
York, and translated to the see of Worcester in 1781. He published several 
works, and died 1808. 

PART II. VOL. I. 2 Q 



582 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Pennant ; I forget Miss Foley, the principal figure in the 
piece. 

It appears that Mrs. Port, of Ham, and her little daughter 
(Mary the. third) and infant son, had been staying with Mrs. 
Delany a short time before the date of this letter. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

St. James's Place, 30th April, 1774. 

By this time I hope my dearest Mary is enjoying the 
sweets of her beautiful Ham, her rocks, her woods, her 
rapid river, the birds warbling her welcome home, and 
the cascades accompanying them tap, tap, the post and 
a letter. Many, many thanks, " sweet are the wwds of her 
I lover I rejoyce you are all so well, and congratulate 
you on the extraordinary circumstance that three out of 
four of your domesticks prove to your satisfaction ; but I 
am not surprized, tho' vext, at Pugh's proving such an 
ignorant useless creature. " Well then" you may well say, 
" my dear A. D. why encourage me to take her ?" I am 
now sorry I did not discourage you, for tho' at first I 
thought she seemed sensible, and I hoped capable enough 
for your service, latterly I suspected she would not do ; 
but as I have no reason to depend on my sagacity I 
thought to object just when all was packed and ready, 
was giving you too great a hurry of spirits. You delight 
me with the account of your lovely children, pray God 
bless them ! You are in the right to continue your 
riding as long as you can. 

Mrs. Foley pure well and about again, so is the 



OF MRS. DELANY. 583 

Duchess of Beaufort, and Lady Delawarr in a fair way, 
and now the doctors say (for she had several) that she 
never was in danger, and that Lord Delawarr took the 
allarm from her very low spirits. 

Mrs. Sandford is recovering again, hut the shock was 
too much for her poor nerves. The accident happen'd as 
they were going to church ; the boy was following his 
mama and his brothers, and fell down and hit his head 
against a post, got up immediately without its being seen 
by any but the servant, who, to be sure, ought to have 
told, and not suffered the child to go into church ; he 
instantly grew sick and had a very allarming complaint ; 
but Mr. Ditcher, who came to him immediately, found 
ths skull was not fractured, but the concussion was very 
dangerous, and threw him into a high fever ; but, thank 
God, the poor child is perfectly sensible, and only weak 
from the discipline he has gone thro'. I am vastly glad 
you have so agreable a companion with you. I shall 
send the parcel with Mr. Granville's things that set out 
next Monday ; you say nothing of him, so I suppose you 
have not seen him. I am in much care about the bed 
and chair he has employed me to get for him, for fear 
they should not answer his expectation, and that would 
disappoint him sadly. 

Sunday I dined at Foley House : Lord Clanbrassil very- 
polite and agreable, and good Lord Oxford very dull and 
formal, so that on the whole it was a very demure party, 
till the young folks proposed coming away after dinner, 
and shewed me some of the bridal preparations, which 
are pretty summer things and very fine lace. The fashion 
of brides being presented in white is out, and so, tho' she 
has a very pretty white and silver, she is to be presented 

2 o 2 



584 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

in pink trimmed with Brussels lace the trimming cost 
70 pound. 

Monday morning Lord Clanbrassil came to see me to 
beg me to hurry Mr. Foley, which I promised to do. 

Yesterday I dined with Mrs. Boscawen. The pattern 
Mrs. Leveson is preparing for you will appear in the 
shape of a work bag as soon as she can finish it, and with 
directions for working one by it. I don't think that it is 
quite what you wanted, and will delay Miss Mordaunt's 
gift too long, but you know Mrs. L. lays hold of every 
opportunity of being obliging. After dinner yesterday I 
made my visit to the Arch Bishop of York, and found 
him better than I expected. He gave me two prints of 
his pallace at Bishopsthorp near York. I ended my 
evening at Whitehall, found our dear Duchess vastly 
better, and her two daughters at work with her. 

This morning I have been with Lady Andover to see 
Miss Finch's painting (that you saw at my house) ; she 
seems to have a great desire to do well, and not to want 
genius. 

I dine solo, and go to Mrs. Fitzwilliam's in my way to 
Whitehall, where her Grace has desired me to come, by 
way, I suppose, of a scarecrow to drive her company 
away ! To-morrow I hope your brothers will dine with 
me. 

Great preparations are making for the masquerade 
next Wednesday. All the world are now reading Lord 
Chesterfield's letters j 1 I have begun them, they are a 
medley Q sense, knowledge of the world, attention to the mi- 

1 The Earl of Chesterfield's Letters to his Son, with several other pieces, 
wore published by Mrs. Eugenia Stanhope, from the originals in her possession 
iii 1774. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 585 

nutest article of good breeding, entertainment, satire, and 
immorality, and not a few inconsistencys ; for at the same 
time he recommends decency of behaviour, and avoiding 
all low vices, he recommends everything that can shake 
the foundation of virtue and religion, tho' at times he 
mentions both as necessary : in short all wickedness is 
folly, and all folly is inconsistency, says a wise man that 
I suppose Lord Ches. was never acquainted with, or at 
least was not wise enough to be instructed by him. 

I sent you the Minstrel, 2 d book ; x I hear its excellent 
author is very well. There is to be a concert next 
winter, where Mrs. Sheridan 2 is to sing, and great 
interest is making to be a subscriber, and Lady M. Mor* 
has desired me to use my interest ' there's for you.' Who 
would imagine I could be an instrument for obtaining 
favour among the bons tons ? Dinner calls me away. 
Miss M. Foley 3 will not have Mr. Bos., he has haunted 
and tormented her whenever they have met, but she has 
put a stop to it by an absolute denial. She talked to me 
very sensibly about it ; she cannot bear such a coxcomb. 
I am sorry he is such a one, for the sake of those he is 
connected with. Mrs. Bos. has been much chagrin'd at 
her youngest son, just come from Winchester school, de- 
claring he will go into the army ; she wished to lead him 
into a more peaceful path. 

General Fitzwilliam is gone to his regiment in Ireland 
for a month. 

1 The Minstrel, or the Progress of Genius, a Poem ; by Dr. James Beattie. 
The second Book was published in Edinburgh in 1774. 

2 Mrs. Sheridan, eldest daughter of Mr. Linley. 

3 Mary, second daughter of Thomas, Lord Foley, married Richard Clarke, 
of Kingston, near Oxford, Esq., and died Dec. 1844. 



586 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

St. James's Place, 10th May, 1774. 

I wish you had been at Calwich, as I think it will soon 
be too fatiguing for me to go so far. By the letters I 
receive from my bro r I should think him rather better. 
As to his not desiring to see anybody, it is owing to low 
spirits, but surely it must give him pleasure to see you, at 
least I judge so from my own heart ! He wrote me word 
of Mr. Un win's death, and said he hoped I would give 
you a hint not to enter into any intimacy w^ the widdow. 
I wrote him word that there was no likelihood of that as 
she had no attraction of manner. 

I will endeavour to get the materials for your work- 
bag before I go to Bulstrode. Mrs. Leveson is at present 
at Glan villa with Mrs. Boscawen. Before I go to Bui- 
strode I shall have a troublesome affair to settle, which is 
taking down my pictures in my drawing-room in order 
to have the cieling cleaned and whitewashed ; at present 
it looks fitter for Morpheus's cave, the god of sleep, than 
for the sprightly circle that so often honour it. I have 
some small hope of seeing Mrs. Saudford for a week if 
she is well eno' to take the journey, and can deposite the 
two youngest children safely during her absence; but 
she has been forc'd to part with her own maid (who 
proves a little crazy) which may hinder her. The idle 
habits of the higher sort (not to give it a harsher name) 
always descend to the lower, and what formerly was 
thought a very reasonable service, is now look'd upon as 
a slavery ! such is the mischief of so much luxury and 
dissipation ! 



OF MRS. DELANY. 587 

Mr. C. Mordaunt 1 is come to town to celebrate his 
nuptials. Your bro ra dined with me on Sunday. 

The Foley wedding, I believe, will be about a fort- 
night hence. I suppose the writings will not be finished 
till next week. At first they were to have been married on 
articles, but they changed ther mind and that has occa- 
sioned some delay. Spencer's, &c., still at Bath. One 
night, at a ball, Lady G. S., 2 overcome with heat, fainted 
away, which of course made a little bustle. His (philo- 
sophical) Grace was at the other end of the room and 
ask'd '* What's that?" they told him, and he replied with 
his usual demureness (alias dulness), " I thought the noise 
was among the women." 

Mrs. Biggs at Bath Easton (which now is called 
Bath-Easton Parnassus) has an assembly of wits where 
Mr. and Mrs. Miller preside ; once a week (I think) or 
some settled time, the wits thereto belonging produce 
their works, judgment passes, and a prize is given to the 
best. Lady Spencer and Lady Gr. S. were invited to a 
breakfast and to partake of the poetical entertainment. 
Amongst other offerings of the muses, Mr. Miller read one 
address'd to Lady Georgina which perhaps you have seen 
in the Publick Advertizer, without wishing to know the 
author too gross a flattery not to distress the person 
chiefly concerned, who blush'd, and look'd down in the 
utmost confusion. Said Mr. Miller, " Sure the author of 
the verses deserves the prize, for having chosen so fine a sub- 



1 The Eev. Charles Mordaunt, second son of Sir Charles Mordaunt, married, 
in 1774, Charlotte, daughter of Sir Philip Musgrave, Bart. 

2 Lady Georgina Spencer, eldest daughter of John, Earl Spencer, afterwards 
Duchess of Devonshire. 



588 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

ject ?" It would have been a poor compliment to have dis- 
puted that judgment in the presence of the person and 
accordingly it was agreed to and the author to be declared. 
" It was I," (says Mr. Miller,) " and now I will read them 
once again? which he was preparing to do, when Lady 
Spencer relieved poor L y Or. by making her curtsey an 
excuse and withdraw. Mr. L'Anglois told me this, and 
that Mrs. Kavaud was hurt by the ridiculous behaviour 
of these people, a sentiment of generosity they do not 
deserve. This is a long story, and I fear has tired you 
quite. 

Bernard is pure well again ; they talk of spending 
their Whitsun week at Welsbourn. They dine w th me 
to-morrow, and go with me afterwards to the Queen's 
house. 

The Duchess of P. spent three days at Bulstrode Just 
week to try what change of air would do. Found her- 
self better. Went again yesterday morning and returns 
on Thursday or Friday. On Sunday I hope she, Mr. and 
Mrs. Montagu, and Doc tr Hurd will dine with me ; the 
next week will disperse us. Mrs. M. goes to Bill Hill 
with Lady Leicester for a month, before which time I 
suppose I shall be at Bulstrode. 

A report has been spread (this part entre nous) that 
Mr. F. 1 was going to be married to Lady E. Cl. A person 
wish'd him joy, and I heard it from several, not a Jittle 
surprized at the report. Mr. F. came to me and declared 
it was without the least foundation, for he had never been 
in a room with her, nor directly or indirectly sent her any 
message, but that "if he alter'd his condition nobody 

1 Mr. Fulcy ! 



OF MRS. DELANY. 589 

would suit him so well, as she was a very worthy woman, 
but he could never think of altering his condition without 
an assurance that it would be agreable to his daughters, 
who deserved so much consideration" I agreed with him, 
and at his request mention'd it to the eldest ; but there it 
must drop, as they are all irreconcileably averse to his 
marrying again, and it was not a point for me to dispute. 
I acquitted myself of my promise to Mr. F. and there's 
an end of the affair. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Ddany. 

Glan Villa, May 13th, 1774. 

Not the nightingale's sweet delightfull song cou'd be 
half so pleasant as my dear friend's delightfull letter. I 
do assure you it is very fashionable to come and visit me, 
w eh must certainly recommend it to a lady who sees masks 
and makes party s for the Pantheon ! jesting apart, I shall 
hope for the honour and pleasure of your visit when the 
north-east wind concludes his, w ch has been very tedious. 
Yesterday it was tolerably civil to my Lord Chief Baron 
and his lady who spent the day here, as Lord and Lady 
Edgcumbe were to have done to-day, but alas, in their stead 
came a messenger with the unwelcome news that Mr. Edg- 
cumbe was not well and come home from Harrow with 
the same sort of fever he had in the winter, but I trust 
in (rod, tho' he is so precious a child 1 that one always 
trembles for him, and so very dear to his mother that she 
is in agonies when his finger aches. God grant they 



1 Richard, afterwards 2nd Earl of Mount Edgcumbe. He was born in 
1764. 



590 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

may both be restor'd to ease and health soon ! Your 
cousin, Mrs. Leveson, is in perfect health, and in the 
evening Mr. George reads to us Lord Chesterfield's 
letters 1 of which I think just as you do and therefore very 
right, I doubt not ! My son George is clear in his 
choice of arms, and I have, at his desire, paid 400 for 
an ensigncy in the 4th or King's Own Regiment of Foot, 
lately sailed for America, where my young soldier purposes 
to join them in the course of this summer full as well 
stor'd with Greek and Latin as my Lord Chesterfield. 

! dear boy, I did not intend him for this business, but 
/ submit, and hope tune and his good behaviour will re- 
concile me to it better than now I am, or can be as yet. 

1 am vastly glad to hear your dear Duchess finds herself 
the better for her excursions to Bulstrode, mine makes 
frequent ones to Glan Villa, and to-morrow I expect her 
with my pretty grandsons. Perhaps when the Duchess 
of Portland returns you will allow me to mark some 
other day with red or rather golden letters. 

Mrs. Walsingham spent a very wet day with us, and 
made it as pleasant as a fine one. 

I know not how much more I might scribble of the 
sang froid of lovers and other subjects no less inte- 
resting, but the hour of post is come, and I can but just 
repeat that I am most gratefull for your kind remem- 
brance. 

F. BOSCAWEN. 



1 Philip-Dormer Stanhope, 4th Earl of Chesterfield, died March 24th, 1773. 
Ilis " Letters " .were published the year after his death. 



OF MRS. DELANI. 591 



The Countess-Dowager Goiucr to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill, 18th May, 74. 

I must make my acknowledgem* 8 to d r Mrs. Delany 
for her kind intentions of peeping at me, tho' y e time 
propos'd was short, and c d only deserve y e name of a 
peep, yet 'twas a pleasing proof I was in yo r thoughts. 
Hope w n oportunity offers you will make this loss up 
w th interest. 

My ladies, who arriv'd safe and well yesterday, tell 
me you are not quite free from cough. This salutary 
air w d be a certain cure ; y e D ss of Portland's travelling 
is by way of exercise (I hope) not from any complaint 
prescrib'd. My best wishes attend you both. 



Mrs. Delany to lier Nepheiv, Eev. J. Dewes. 

St. James's Place, 21st May, 1774. 

This morn g Lord and I/ Clanbrassil were married at 
8 o'clock at Oxford Chapel. The ceremony performed by 
D r Foley. 1 As soon as the ceremony was over, they set 
out for Hampton Court, and return on Wednesday to 
prepare for being presented on Thurs y next. The rest of 
the family are in town, and I have just sent my circular 
congratulations. They all seem happy about it, and with 
reason ; nothing can have been more generous and polite 
than Lord Clanbrassil' s behaviour, and he is of an age 

o 

as well as his lady to know their own minds. I believe 



1 Dr. Bobert Foley, Dean of Worcester, son of Thomas Foley, of Stoke 
Edith, Esq., by his second wife, Mary Wallers. 



592 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

there are more happy marriages made after 30 than be- 
fore, provided they are not with an avaricious view. No 
favours were given but to uncles and aunts and those at 
y e wedding. I had one sent me to wear as an old friend, 
but not as a relation, for fear of giving offence to their 
other innumerable cousins, w ch w d have been an immense 
expense. Pray communicate this to y r sister. I can't 
write to her by this post. 

As soon as the Archb p of York was well eno' to see 
anybody he went to the B p of Lichfield ; not finding him 
at home, he wrote to him, and the enclosed is that part 
of his letter relating to you. I wish the prospect was 
nearer, but it is not bad to have such a claim, and acci- 
dents may hasten it. The Ab p of Y. said he had just 
disposed of 6 prebends at York, and has still 10 on his 
list. 

Your brothers went out of town last Wednesday. 
Bernard very well again. I miss them sadly, as I do the 
Dss of Portland, who went the same day to Brighthelm- 
stone merely for air and exercise. I expect her the 
middle of next week, and suppose we shall soon go to 
Bulstrode, and tho' my house is both quiet and airy, I 
languish for the country. I lament my distance from 
Staffordshire ; but when I am stouter, w ch I hope warm 
weather may make me, it will not appear so far off. My 
love to my brother beg he will not think any thing a 
trouble I can do for him ; especially if it in the least con- 
tributes to his ease. I am tired. Adieu. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 593 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

St. J. Place, 7th June, 1774. 

I can't stay for a letter, which I hope to-morrow's post 
will bring me. My heart is too full of my dearest Mary 
not to overflow. The last account of that precious self 
was tolerable, and I hope the next will be still more 
satisfactory ! I applaud your discretion of not attempting 
so long a journey as to Nottingham races, and as 
the entertaining your friend was a strong motive, your 
merit is the greater. The great wedding is over, and 
at last a surprize, for this was the expected day ; but they 
managed very cleverly, as they were all at the birthday, 
and the Duke and Duchess danced at the ball. It was 
as great a secret to Lady G a Spencer } as to the world. 
Sunday morning she was told her doom ; she went out of 
town (to Wimbleton) early on Sunday, and they were 
married at Wimbleton church, between church and 
church, as quietly and uncrowded as if John and Joan 
had tied the Gordian knot. Don't think because I have 
made use of the word " doom" that it was a melancholy 
sentence (though a surprise) to the young lady ; for she 
is so peculiarly happy, as to think his Grace very agreable, 
and had not the least regret a bliss which I most sin- 
cerely hope will prove a lasting one. The Duke's in- 
timate friends say he has sense and does not want merit 
to be sure the jewel has not been well polished : had 
he fallen under the tuition of the late Lord Chesterfield 

3 

he might have possessed les graces, but at present only 



1 William, 5th Duke of Devonshire, married, 5th June, 1774, Lady 
Georgina Spencer, eldest daughter of John, Earl Spencer. 



594 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

that of his dukedom, belongs to him. Nobody was at 
the wedding but the Duchess of Portland and Lady 
Cowper, as fine and as gay as a bride herself. What a 
blooming great-grand-mother she will be ! The Duke 
of Portland excused himself not to add to the embarras 
of his b r D. They are still at Wimbleton, and stay there 
till they come to town to be presented. I heartily wish 
they may be as happy as they are great ! I have written 
to Lady Cowper and sent my congratulations round, and 
it is very likely that the bridal party will be at Chats- 
worth about the time of your going to Matlock. You 
will conclude from the date of my letter that our dear 
Duchess has not been well, which is too true, but she 
talked last night of going to Bulstrode in a day or two ; 
I regret the loss of the sweets and verdure of that 
delightful place, but regret more the cause of it. I am 
just returned from viewing the Wedgewood-ware that is 
to be sent to the Empress of Russia. It consists I be- 
lieve of as many pieces as there are days in the year, if 
not hours. They are displayed at a house in Greek-street, 
Soho, called " Portland House ;" there are three rooms 
below and two above filled with it, laid out on tables, 
every thing that can be wanted to serve a dinner ; the 
ground the common ware pale brimstone, the drawings 
in purple, the borders a wreath of leaves, the middle of 
each piece a particular view of all the remarkable places 
in the King's dominions neatly executed. I suppose it 
will come to a princely price ; it is well for the manu- 
facturer, which I am glad of, as his ingenuity and in- 
dustry deserve encouragement. Among the views (and 
the prettiest there), tho' justice has not been done to it, 
is Thorp Cloud, as it appears at the end of the improve- 



OF MRS. DELANY. 595 

ments at Ham ; but my indignation was raised when I 
read the card : " A view of Thorp Cloud, belonging to Mr. 
Adderley." I rectified the mistake with the person that 
had the care of them, and hope Ham will acknowledge 
its true master to her Imperial Majesty. Your brothers 
are very well ; they dine with me to-day. I am so giddy 
with looking over such a quantity of crockery ware that 
I can only beg my kind compliments to all. Adieu. 

Mrs. Mordaunt brought to bed of a son the day be- 
fore yesterday. Many enquiries after you all yesterday 
morning from Lord Dartmouth and Mr. Montagu, who 
were here. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

Bulstrode, 12th June, 1774. 

I am much refreshed by coming here, and if my dear 
friends were well, have nothing to complain of but the 
natural decline of life, I bless God, in a very gentle way ; 
and that I ought not to complain of, as it is my own 
fault if I have not reason to rejoyce in it. 

The good account of your darlings delight me ; don't 
be anxious about their forwardness in learning to read, 
n'importe whether they know their alphabet at 3 or at 
4 years of age ; the soil is not uncultivated all that time ; 
a habit of application for some part of the day is neces- 
sary, but not to teize that would hurt them more 
effectually than a little ignorance for a year or two ; and 
I am sure your good friend Miss Launder will give 
them a lesson once a day, and save you an application 
by no means proper for you. 

that I could fly to you ! but as I have not wings 



695 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE. 

my thoughts only can be so happy. I shall this day 
write to Doct r Forde, and will send his ans r to Mr. 
Granville. What havock does caprice make in the 
human head ! Not long ago Forde and all the London 
clan were "fools " to "Mr. Docksey" and now the tables 
turned ! It is grievous you should be perplexed and 
suffer from it. I own I suspected this would be the 
case when so great a stress was laid upon not going seven 
miles. Avoid fatigue, and don't neglect y r raisins and 
buttermilk, if they agree with your stomach. How 
much it is to be lamented that those who have it so 
much in their power to make their friends and depen- 
dents happy, should act quite contrary ; but they them- 
selves are most to be pitied, by losing the greatest happi- 
ness nature is capable of enjoying, t/iat of bestowing it. 

Monday, 13th. 

Mr. Lightfoot according to his usual custom, gave us 
a very good sermon. We took an airing to Becons- 
field ; a sprinkling rain all the way laid the dust, rc- 
fresh'd the hedges, and delighted the birds that warbled 
forth their praise. 

I have walk'd an hour in the garden, read an account 
of the Fete Champetre 1 in the newspaper, puzzled my 
head w th 10 pages of philosophy, eat my breakfast, and 
now am going to settle to work. 



1 F6te Champetre " given by Lord Stanley. 



END OF VOL. I. 



LOXDOK: rniXTEl) BY WILLIAM ClflWKS AND *>N8. STAXFOnD 8TKKKT AND fllAItlXC OKM. 






DA Delany, Mary (Granville) 

483 Pendarves 
D3A2 The autobiography and 

1862 correspondence of Mary 

v.l Granville 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



