HANDBOUND 
AT THE 



UNIVERSITY OF 
TORONTO PRESS 



Digitized by the Internet Archive 
in 2013 



http://archive.org/details/autobiographyco03dela 



jy 



l H I 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY AND CORRESPONDENCE 

OF 

MARY GRANVILLE, 



MRS. DELAN\. 
VOL. III. 




AIR^ tL^®^' cJ3 






fyffffiViMA 



T 1 1 E 



AUTOBIOGRAPHY 

AND CORRESPONDENCE 

OF 

MARY GRANVILLE, 

MKS. DELANY. 

WITH INTERESTING REMINISCENCES OF 

KING GEORGE THE THIRD AND QUEEN CHARLOTTE. 

EDITE r> 
BY THE RIGHT HONOURABLE 

LADY LLANOVER. 



THREE VOLUMES. V_ 



vol. in. 17. v a ^> 




LONDON: 

RICHARD BENTLEY, NEW 13UKLINGTON STBEET, 
JOuulisIjcr in ®rtrmarr> to $er #aajaStii. 
1862. 



A PEDIGREE OF THE GRANVILLE FAMILY. 



1 



a '"i2s5.'.;'* ! -~ ' : 












■," ".,'". 



:■;,." ■■:'; ■■■ "V-V '» ' , ■',■' ,:■::■.: k':"v:.! 



"SsS" < 


^"illZr""" 


iPSH= 




" &B 


«KKKS ! r ; 



rr.;v,r i;,:v,p,-::vt:',-: 



>^ 



■:.--:■ :■ :t 






s ®5Sr ""' '"""""*"' I 1 """""" 1, 















""""ja&sjs 















E%£ 



,':;,;:' ",:;' ,;:;■;:,;.: ;:::,"„:, ;, ',:,' ' 






cfi':: r 






... , , ,.:,.., . ' .. ,■.;,:.■., ,.,.., 






mm. 



1"""' 



K: 



! .r:^:,' : ; ■, ,, . : . ; '• " .. "' "'""' '"■" ; ', 

SI § i SmS 



TUB 



LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

OF 

MARY GRANVILLE 

(MRS. DELANY). 



CHAPTEE XXVII. 

January, 1781 — December, 1785. 

Mrs. Dclany to Mrs. rort, of Ilam. 

Jan., 1781. 

So weakened that I can no more attend to busyness 
than a child, not that I feel any other defect in my ap- 
prehensions but that of being overcome with any inte- 
resting attention. I endeavour, therefore, to avoid as 
much as possible everything that agitates my spirits, and 
to preserve that tranquillity of mind w ch is necessary for 
the great object in view, and must make the kind and 
attentive friends who are interested for me easy and 
satisfyed with my present state of life, and indeed I 
believe, with the blessing of Almighty God, it will prove 
the most likely means to prolong my life. You will 
answer this immediately, that if necessary to put up 
another bed it should be done direct. So, my dearest 
child, praying most ardently for your good journey and 

PART II. — VOL. III. B 



2 LIFE AND CORKESPONDENCE 

our happy meeting on Saturday the 20th of this month, 
I salute you all with my best wishes. 

Ever yours, 
W th the tenderest affection, 

M. Delany. 

P.S. Lord Guilford is happy with his grandson, Mr. 
North, being made Secretary to the Queen. Mr. Will m 
Legge 1 Groom of y e Bedchamber to the Prince of Wales. 

A word of the potted meat. I sent the Duchess of P. 
a small pot of it, as made by you at y e request of y r 
daughter, and she says she " never eat any so good." I 
have more in store for her, but I thought if I sent the 
whole it would be lost in her great kitchen, for she is as 
choice of it as of a fine shell. 

Send your trunks in time with a full direction, that 
they may be ready for you. 

I have heard news from Welsbourn — all well. Lady 
Foley 2 was so ill yesterday with a fever after her lying- 
in that there was small hopes of her life. I have not 
heard to-day. 

S r Francis Bourgoyne 3 died Saturday night ; poor 
Miss Bour ne sat by him at his supper : he was as well as 
usual, but soon after eating his cup of gruel he fell into 
convulsions, from one fit into another, and she had the 
terror of seeing him dye ! On other accounts his death 
can cause no grief. 



1 Hon. Mr. Legge, appointed Groom of the Bed-chamber to the Prince 
of Wales, Dec. 19, 1780. 

2 Henrietta, wife of Thomas, 2nd Lord Foley, and daughter of William, 
2nd Earl of Harrington, died in Jan., 1781, having on 22nd Dec, 1780, 
given birth to a son, Thomas, afterwards 3rd Baron Foley. 

3 Sir Roger Burgoyne died in 1780. — {Burke.) 



OF MRS. DELANY. 3 

Mrs. Delany to her nephew, the llev. J. Dewes. 

St. James's Place, Jan. 4th, 1781. 
I am much obliged to my dear nephew for the good 
tilings you design me, which will be welcome, but 
rather more convenient a fortnight hence; but as you 
and your brother are such excellent purveyors for me, 
pray consult together that my larder may not overflow. 
I am tolerably well ; have some very sinking days, but, 
on the whole, am as well as old age will allow. Ever 
happy to hear you are all so, and, 

Ever your affectionate, 

M. Delany. 

I shall expect Mrs. Port on the 20th. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

St. James's Place. Friday morning. 
Jan. 5th, 1781. 

This is the first day I cou'd sincerely boast of an 
amendment, or my dear agreable Miss Hamilton's com- 
mands wou'd have been sooner obey'd, they were too 
flattering for me to neglect. I have been a poor languid 
mortal since I saw you ; but instead of smelling a 
bottle of salts, &c, I took a look at my charming locket, 
and recollected the honour my heart most gratefully 
feels ; which also abounds with every warm wish for the 
health and true felicity of your royal mistress, who is so 
amiable that 'tis impossible not to love her. You are an 
enviable creature, but as you are worthy of the honour 
of seeing her every day, I will not (if I can help it) envy 



4 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

you, but wish you many years enjoyment of that and 

of every earthly felicity. 

Affect ly y r3 , 

M. Delany. 

The Duchess of Portland's cold is much better, and 
that makes me better. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

Feb. 2nd, 1781. 

I long to see you, my dear Miss Hamilton, to con- 
gratulate you on being initiated into the science of 
"conchyliology" which I am sure you will do honour to, 
from what I have heard reported of you from the foun- 
tain-head ; but I have many reasons to wish to see you, 
among the number to enquire very particularly after 
Lady Char. Finch, as I hear she has had an indifferent 
account of L d W s health, and I sincerely feel for her 
and Mrs. Fielding. 1 

I fear this is an impertinent interruption to your pre- 
cious moments. I am tolerably well for my tottering 
state, but only allow' d the liberty of seeing y e quint- 
essence of my acquaintance ; and truly I have no reason 
to complain, but of my abominable pen and ink. This 
requires no answer. 

M. Delany. 



1 Mrs. Fielding, daughter of Lady C. Finch and sister of the Earl of 
Winchelsea. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 5 

.1/ s. LhUiny to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

S>. , Ian, os's Place, 27 Feby.,1781. 

My dearest Mart, 

I must wave all tender reflections and acknow- 
ledgements, they would overpower me, and we are sure 
of doing eaeh oilier justice — "paying and still owing." 

Your sweet pledge came to my bedside, and we sym- 
pathized! we eat a solitary breakfast; we — but I am 
insensibly doing what I meant to avoid. I assure you 
she is pure well, and minds all your injunctions : she was 
not disposed for dancing, so I excused her, and sent her 
on an errand to neighbour Sandford, who dined and staid 
w th me the even g . Her son came from Danson at 6, and 
drank tea here and diverted his sist r , w ch I was glad of. 
I sent her to bed early ; she had a good night, and is 
very well to-day ; transported last night with her papa's 
letter ; indeed, so w r as I, and most heartily congratulate 
you both on the happy state of y r nursery, and you may 
believe not a little impatient to hear how you go on, 
and what sort of a journey you and my sweet dear little 
Vandyke 1 (alias Gr. E. P.) have had ; M. and I followed 
you from stage to stage. 

1 " My dear little Vandyke.'" — George Powe Port, then seven years old, 
whose remarkable beauty caused Mrs. Delany to call him her "little 
Vandyke," from his resemblance to a picture of a beautiful child by that 
master. It was probably on the occasion of this his first visit to London, 
that Queen Charlotte unexpectedly entered the room where he was, and 
held out her hand to him, upon which Mrs. Delany said, " Kneel down, 
and kiss her Majesty's hand," an order which he obeyed instantaneously ; 
and the grace of his attitude, the beauty of his countenance and com- 
plexion, with his curling hair, and fine eyes looking up at the Queen with 
the most perfect simplicity and innocence, and without one particle of 
self-consciousness, awkwardness, or affectation, made altogether a picture 
which his sister who was present often recalled long after death had de- 
prived her of this favourite brother. He died June 20, 1794, 2nd Lieu- 
tenant on board 11. M.S. The Reprisal) at Antigua, of yellow fever. 



G LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

My nephew Dewes dined w tb me, and staid till his 
concert hour, and I was well pleased no other visitor 
came : nothing is so soothing as a single sensible kind 
friend's conversation when the mind is in a sensitive 
state, who is also interested in the subject that occupy s 
(I may say, engrosses) our thoughts. 

This evening I expect, besides our dear Dss, Lady 
Stamford, Miss Hamilton, and some chance etceteras. How 
kind and considerate it was in Mr. Port not to let you 
into the secret of the infection spreading ! it was time 
eno' for you to be prepared with it before you reach'd 
home. I think George can hardly escape it. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

St. James's Place, 1st March, 1781. 

Our dear girl is perfectly well and perfectly good, and 
at this moment very busy with Mr. Snow, who has re- 
quested to alter his time, so he comes on Thursdays at 
8 in the morning, and Tuesdays and Saturdays at 9, 
which suits just as well. 

The journal of 2 days past. — Tuesday morning no 
body ; in the evening, my never failing friend and Lady 
Stamford, Mrs. San d and her son ; Sit past nine in flounced 
Lady Clarendon and Lady Charlotte, w cb honour might 
have been spared at such an undue hour. Yesterday 
morning Mr. Bolton began with Gr. M. A; at 12 Mrs. 
Sand d and her bro r T. C. had the Dss's coach to go to 
Chelsea to see Mrs. Chapone, and took my sweet girl 
with them ; she and I dined tete-a-tete, and before apple 
pye came the Dss of P d made me a visit in her way from 



OF MRS. DELANY. 7 

her daughter's home, but would not partake of our 
lenten fare. At 5 came Mr, French ; I did not expect 

him, but thought it too innocent an employment to put 
him off, and he gave her a long lesson for missing one 
on Monday. Mrs. Sand d and her son came at 7, then 
Mr. and Mrs. Cole, also Lord Lewisham 1 (so polite and 
agreahle that I wished his visit longer), then Lady Brude- 
nel; then Lady Andover; then L 1 and L y Willoughby; and 
all cleared oil' by 9 o'clock : and tho' a little tired, I did 
not think T was the worse for my assembly. I forgot my 
morning visitor, Lord Carlow, who came to thank me for 
my congratulations in person, and to give me the satis- 
faction of knowing that L y Carlow and his new born son 2 
were as well as possible. I have just sent to enquire after 
Mrs. A. Foley. Mrs. Sand d has received fresh satisfaction 
about her son, who is now in great spirits on board 
Admiral Darby's 3 own ship with many advantagious 
circumstances ; her cousin (the saylor, Mr. Tho s Sand- 
ford) went down to Portsmouth last week on purpose to 
see him ; saw him on board, and returned yesterday 
with this good ace 1 . I send a note by Mrs. Sand d to-day 
to L y Willoughby with the paper I had wrote down, and 
shewed you (ab* Mr. B ms coming into Par?) ; she is so 
judicious as well as zealous that I am sure she will do 
what is best. 



1 George, Lord Lewisham, born 3rd Oct., 1755 ; married, 24th Sept., 
1782, Frances, daughter of Heneage, 3rd Earl of Avlesford j succeeded his 
father as 3rd Earl of Dartmouth in 1801, and died in 1810. 

2 John, 2nd Viscount Carlow (afterwards created Earl of Portarlington), 
married, 1st Jan., 1778, Lady Caroline Stuart, daughter of the Earl of Bute. 
Their eldest son, John, 2nd Earl, was born 26th Feb., 1781, who died un- 
married, Dec, 1845. 

3 Rear-Admiral George Darby ; he relieved Gibraltar in 1781, and was 
made a Lord of the Admiralty the same year. He died Feb., 1790. 



8 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 






Mr. Snow has given us an hour and f this morning, 
and the overture of Amadis into y e bargain. I shall 
never be forgiven if I omit Gr. M. A.'s love and duty ; 
indeed, she wants me to say more than I have time for. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

10 o'clock, Wednesday, 

My dear Madam, March 14th, mi. 

I hope the regal flower 1 has returned safe into 
your hands, tho' not so blooming as when I received it ; 
I fear I have kept it too long, but my vivacity (like the 
flower) droops with time, and I truly think nothing less 
than the honour and delight of having been thought 
worthy of such a task by her Majesty cou'd have given 
me the power of attempting it ; you know, my dear 
madam, how truly sensible I am of the Queen's goodness, 
and you also know how difficult it is to do justice to 
that gratitude which an honest heart must feel. Joy ! 
joy ! for our excellent good news ! The Bishop of Chester 
and Mrs. Porteus drink tea here, and my never failing 
friend this afternoon. Have you a moment to spare ? 
If you have you cannot bestow it where it will be more 
truly valued than on 

Y r most affectionate 

And obliged 

M. Delany. 

Don't write ; I know your hours are better employ' d 
than in answering notes. 

1 " The Regal Flower" This flower was beautifully represented by Mrs. 
Delany, and on the back she wrote, " Amaryllis Regia, St. James's Place, 
lQth March, 1781. Sent me by the Queen.' 



OF MR& DELANY. C J 

Mrs. Delany to Mi** Hamilton, 

Monday, March 19th, 1781. 

My dear Madam, 

I send for your inspection one of my drawers of 
shells, and wish most heartily I cou'd have brought 
them ; but I must content myself with the pleasant feel 
of sending you a moment's amusements ; you may keep 
them as long as they can be of use to you, knowing 
them in safe hands ; I will send for them to-morrow or 
Wednesday, w cb ever day you name to the bearer ; the 
mode of the trays 1 I have found answer the purpose 
1 »etter than any; I don't despair of assisting you in the 
work, as I hope to improve with the season. 

Ever your much obliged and afFect te 

M. Delany. 

Don't trouble yourself to write ; Mr. Turton has been 
w* me, and assures me y u are better. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Dewes.* 

St. James's Place, 19th March, 1781. 

I am happy that my dear niece Dewes likes the little 
addition I have made to her toylet, and obliged to her 
for her kind manner of accepting my offering. I am 
sorry our distance has prevented my being personally 



1 Mrs. Delany made quantities of little trays of cards to hold her shells 
and divide them, and it appears that she sent a pattern of one to Miss 
Hamilton. 

2 Harriet Joan De la Bere — Mrs. Dewes. 

PART II. — VOL. III. C 



10 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

more intimately acquainted with one who is so amiable 
an acquisition to my family, and whose character and 
conduct have so much gained my love and esteem. Yet, 
notwithstanding that regret, I cannot but felicitate you 
and my dear nephew for being settled far from the follies 
and temptations that infest this great whirlpool of Lon- 
don, and for filling your station of life w tb honour and 
true domestic happiness. I hope you are as well as y r 
present circumstances will allow you to be, and that you 
are cautious not to run any hazards. Y r kind guardian 
and protector, I am sure, will be watchful, and the care 
of your health is the only point where it may be neces- 
sary for him to exert the lord and master. No long 
walks, I beseech you, nor jolting in rough roads ; every 
fatigue to be avoided as much as possible. To your 
kind enquiry after my health I can truly say I have n< 
complaint but what is the natural attendant of old age, 
but gentle monitors to keep in view the haven where I 
wish to be I and I am most grateful to Providence for 
allowing me so many enjoyments beyond my years 
"When my friends are well and happy / am so ; when 
otherways I recollect this is a world of tryal, and that 
our sorrows are sent to refine us for a better state, anc 
wean us from a vain attachment to this life. My little 
circle of choice friends, and the kind remembrances o: 
absent ones, are the only cordials I have recourse to, and 
they cheer without intoxication. I shall soon lose my 
dear Court, but you and Ham will, I suppose, gain by 
it, w ch will be my consolation. Y r dear sister-in-law, 
Port, I hope is well, and not over-fatigued w tb her nur- 
sery. I try to be as little anxious as possible, and he] 
sweet girl enlivens and delights me. It is a great satis- 



OF MRS. DELANY. 11 

faction to mc to hear that y r dear little boy l thrives so 
charmingly. My love and best wishes attend dear 
Oalwich. I don't think I return 'd you thanks for 
the "goodproff" you sent me. I was ill and unable at 
thai lime, but Mrs. Port promised to do it for me. I 
wish, though my visit is already very long, I cou'd 
lengthen it by some entertaining news. We are all 
spirits, and w th reason, on the important victory S r 
G. Rodney has gain'd, and even the grumblers not 
only abate of their ill-humour, but even complim 1 and 
applaud our Minister. Happy if all terminates in peace, 
and there ends my politics. 

Lady Althorpe 2 appeared at the Dra wing-Room last 
Thursday — a fine and happy bride : silver tissue trimm'd 
with gold, many jewels, and very well dress'd. Most of 
the relations and attendants on the occasion were in 
plain or striped sattins. 

Lady Bridget Talmache's disappointment has been 
matter of conversation. Her b r , L d Northington, 3 told 
her to " be comforted, for Renelagh wou'd begin soon, 
and she might get another husband ;" not a very deli- 
cate manner of consolation. 

I had y e pleasure yesterday of seeing y r b r , Mr. T. 
De la Bere. He looks very well, and says he is so, and 



2 Lord Althorp, son of Earl Spencer, was married by special licence, 
March 6, 1781, to Lavinia, eldest daughter of Charles, Baron and afterwards 
1st Earl of Lucan." 

3 Robert Henley, 2nd Earl of Northington, succeeded his father in 1772. 
He was Lord Lieutenant of Ireland in 1783-4, and died unmarried in 1786, 
when his titles became extinct. Lady Bridget Henley's first husband was 
the Hon. George Fox Lane ; and her second husband was the Hon. John 
Tolmache, killed in a duel with Mr. Pennington (afterwards Lord Muncaster.) 

c 2 



12 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

does me the favour to dine w th me to-morrow w th Mr. 
Dewes and Master Sandford, and they go afterwards to 
the Oratoria. In the evening I saw Miss Foley, who is 
very well, and gave a good account of Staffordshire 
friends. She is very amiable. 



The Dowager- Countess Oower to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill, 27 th March, 81. 

ffrom not thinking it reasonable that one out of y e 
world sh d engross a mom* of those y* are in it, is one 
cause of my profound silence ; and my old man has often 
inform'd me you was well, w ch saves you y e trouble of 
answering my enquiries. Then I've no ffrank left. Poor 
Tomy gave me many ; but alas ! his mother has bussled 
him out of Parliam*, and they are as useless as almanacks 
out of date ! I've remain'd here, I believe, for want of 
spirits to move, tho' well, quiet, w th out any disturbance ; 
w* can an old woman desire more ? Sometimes a wish to 
see some individuals has come across my profound tran- 
quility ; but a languor from age, I sopose, prevented put- 
ing it in execution. Enough of myself, which always 
must be countrey peoples subject, for want of any other. 

Mrs. Port and her little ones I don't doubt gave you 
much pleasure. Mrs. Leveson, who was here for a few 
days, said they were return'd ; I hope safe and well home. 
Here has been y e finest March weather ever known, and 
in consequence y e finest bloom ; magnolias in a flourish- 
ing state. I may say to 'em w l y e late L . . d Orford 
us'd to say of his trees (w 11 a discarded Minister), they 



OF MRS. DELANY, 13 

were jffreinds, 1/ ?r d not deceive him. May d r Mrs. Delany 
meet w th Buch is v' real desire of her most faithfull 

m. a. 

Almost all niv best wishes attend y e Dow r D r of Port- 
land. 

On the 8th of April, in this year, Mrs. Delany wrote to Miss 
Hamilton asking her to come to her anytime from 2 to 10, 
as slie wished to consult her. The consultation appears to have 
been upon the subject of the execution of the flower which she 
had copied in her work of paper mosaic, from the living 
specimen sent to her by the Queen. On the 11th of April, 
Mrs. Delany wrote to Miss Hamilton that she will submit the 
flower to her sentence, as to whether it was to receive the highest 
of honours, or to be condemned to the station it had a better 
claim to. Upon Mrs. Delany's note Miss Hamilton had written 
the message with which she was afterwards charged to the 
Queen, and which she must have written down from Mrs. 
Delany's lips. It is as follows : — 

"With the utmost fearfulness of being too presumptuous, 
Mrs. Delany earnestly wishes to offer this lowly tribute of 
her humble duty and warmest gratitude to the Queen ; the 
apprehension that it may be the last effort she shall be able to 
execute of this work, which has been so much honoured by her 
Majesty's approbation, urges and emboldens her to lay this at 
her Majesty's feet ; and if in the smallest degree it should prove 
acceptable, and be received as a testimony of her profound 
respect, her highest ambition will be gratified." 

As Queen Charlotte had this lily, and there is another in the 
work, Mrs. Delany must have done two from the flower sent her; 
probably she was dissatisfied with the first, and did a second 
for the Queen. 



14 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

St. James's Place. 
Wednesday, 18th April, 1781. 

My dear Madam, 

Your obliging request of hearing from me is too 
agreable not to be complied with. The softness and 
cheerfulness of the present weather I hope will contri- 
bute to make the Dss D r of P. quite well. What need 
I say any thing of my own health? She is my baro- 
meter, and yesterday I had the courage to go to Sir 
Ashton Levers 1 and Sir Joshua Beynolds, 2 and not 
too much fatigued. How you at this moment pity us, 
poor Londoners ! Well you may, who enjoy such su- 
perior pleasures, and I shou'd truly envy you, were I 
not so well acquainted with you, and so sincerely 
My dear Miss Ham 113 
Affectionately and most obliged, hum bl serv*, 

M. Delany. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

St. James's Place, 30th April, 1781. 

My dear Miss Hamilton, 

I take the liberty of sending a piece of antiquity 
to add to your collection, tho' I fear it is much less 
valuable than a piece of spar or a lump of mundic. If 



1 Sir Ashton Levers, founder of the Leverian Museum, a valuable col- 
lection of Natural History, which was exhibited at Leicester House about 
1778. It was afterwards disposed of by lottery, and in a few years dispersed 
by auction. Sir Ashton Levers died in 1788. 

1 Sir Joshua Reynolds was born at Plympton, in Devonshire, in 1723 ; 
was appointed President of the Royal Academy in 1768 and knighted. 
He died at his house in Leicester Square, Feb. 23rd, 1792. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 15 

you will find a corner for it, and sometimes look on 
it with a partial eye, you will agreeably flatter and 
gratify 

Your most affectionate 

And much obliged hum bl serv*, 
M. Delany. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

St. James's Place, 3rd May, 1781. 

I did not know till I received your dear letter yester- 
day that I had miss'd a post, but you are very kind and 
indulgent in making those allowances which my present 
stage of life requires ; but don't imagine it is always in- 
ability of writing, for my interruptions are numerous, 
especially as I now lay hold of good days and good 
weather to air about and visit, w ch with the attentions 
(the most delightfull of all) paid to our lovely girl, leaves 
no great leisure for writing, and now and then will 
occasion a slip. I think after this I shall make Tues- 
days my day of sending my letter to the post, and shou'd 
be glad if as convenient to you that you wrote on y e day 
that wou'd bring y ra to me on Saturday. I am sorry, 
my dearest child, you shou'd apologize for sending me 
y r commission ; as long as I am able I shall with pleasure 
get them executed. I know nothing of Mrs. Pen but 
that the letter about her cloaths was sent to her. I am 
most truly sorry she ever was in your service, as I have 
good reason to know she is a mischievous woman, (so 
that I have forbid her coming) and am heartily glad 
Mrs. Joyce proves a comfortable servant, for indeed such 



10 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

a servant is one of the necessarys of life, especially where 
a family is apt to increase ! 

I am unreasonable eno' to prolong the time of my 
dear G.M.A/s stay. My wish / own was to have kept 
her till the end of y r confinement. 

Your bro r C. will ever be ready to do all the service 
in his power to you and your children, and when people 
are willing and able to be of real use, small matters must 
be overlooked, as they have a right to confer in their 
own way. 

Shou'd you alter your mind about G.M.A.'s journey, 
cou'd not you spare Mrs Joyce better than A.Y., I cou'd 
by no means be easy (as I am sure he wou'd not) that 
Mr. Port shou'd be two or three days from you when his 
tender care of you is so necessary ; but be assured what- 
ever you determine I shall be quite satisfied with. 

I have continued G.M.A.'s masters, and I think they 
will lay such a foundation as will enable her to go on at 
home with advantage. I believe 3 times more finishes 
Mr. Bolton, and I shall then discharge him, as she is 
grown fonder of looking into her books of geography 
and her maps. / can attend to her writing, and her 
papa I trust will improve her in arithmetic and teach 
her multiplication table w ch she is deficient in, but her 
excellent capacity, when improved by attention, will do 
all we wish for her ; you must not expect much on the 
harpsicord. Mr. Snow does not desire to bring her so 
forward in the executive part as in the knowledge of her 
book, w ch I hope you will approve of, as it will then be 
a fund of pleasure that will not fail her. He will write 
down all his directions. 

She is gone this morning to breakfast with Miss Ha- 



OF MRS. PEL ANY. 17 

miltoD at S f James's Palace, comes home at eleven to 
meet Mr. Snow, and in the evening is invited to a little 
dance at Miss Black's (my friend y € paint ress) to meet 
the Lady Greys. Mr. and Miss Foley run away with her 
to dinner last Monday, and carried her with them to the 
play ; Lady Clan 1 and Miss Foley were here yesterday 
evening ; poor Lady Clan 1 looks thin, and still has a bad 
cough, w*, being nervous, has been increased by her 
anxiety about Mrs. Wilmington. She showed me a most 
affecting letter of hers ; so much maternal feeling and at 
the same time so much Xtian resignation and attention to 
the blessings remaining that it raised my admiration as 
well as my affection for her ; if my spirits will let me 
after this long letter and 4 visitors that come this mor- 
ning to visit Flora Delanica, I mean to write to her. 
Shou'd you see her before that, assure her of my very 
affi > -donate attachment to her on all occasions. 

The Bishop of Worcester (Dr. North) is to succeed 
the B p of Winchester. The Bishop of Litchfield removes 
to Worcester. I am afraid the Mills's will think me 
negligent of them, but I have not been able to depend 
on myself to ask them to dinner. 



Mrs. Ddomy to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

St. James's Place, Sunday, 
May, 1781. 

I wrote last Thursday, the day our little girl was to 
go to Miss Black's "little dance," as she called it ; but 
it proved, like all other private parties, a crowd ; how- 
ever, she was pleased with it and met her young friends, 
the Lady Greys and Lady Stamford. I knew they were 



18 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

to be there or I should not have trusted her without 
myself. She came home at eleven in a chair. I would 
not let her stay supper ; but she was a good deal tired, 
and she did not recover quite her usual vivacity till after 
dinner on Friday, but was then perfectly well, and has 
been so ever since. 

We had a large circle in the evening, morning and 
evening visitors were 17 in number. I bore it tolerably 
well, and yesterday the Dss J), of Portland carried us both 
to Mr. Smitman's to see the wonderful works of the 
African ants. 

Tuesday noon, 8th May, 1781. 

We were there full 4 hours and G. M. A. as attentive 
to the last moment as any philosopher could be, and is 
very busy writing down all she can recollect of what she 
saw to entertain her friends at Ham, so I will not forestall 
her design. 

Sunday morning at one, I went to see Mrs. Walsing- 
ham, who is still in her retired way and sees only parti- 
culars. She has not yet put on her mourning tho' 
for some time I think she must be convinced that the 
Thunderer and all its crew has perished ? she waits till it 
is declared by Government. His conduct for some years 
past has been so ungrateful and unworthy, tho' with a 
parade of kindness, that she can feel no real affliction for 
the loss after the first shock is over. I found her and 
her agreeable girl surrounded with their ingenious works, 
which for some months they have had much leisure for ; 
I have been very sorry that G a has as yet had no inter- 



i The Hon. Robert Boyle Walsingham, third son of the Earl of Shannon, 
was lost on board the " Thunderer" man-of-war, of which he was com- 
mander, in a hurricane in the West Indies, in Oct., 1779. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 19 

course with Miss Boyle but as children of a longer inti- 
macy and relations have not been admitted, I would 
make no advances that might embarras. G a will have a 

pleasant day. She is just gone to Lady Stamford's, 
where she is to dine and spend the day. 'Tis Lady 
Louisa QreyV birthday. 

Last night Lady Mansfield, her 2 neices, Bishop of 
Litchfield (now Worcester) 2 Lady Stamford and Dss of 
Portland drank tea ; roasting by a good fire which even 
I could endure, the weather is so sharp, what must it be 
it be more north d . — > 

Mrs. N. now is almost at the summit of her wishes. I 
am quite disappointed for my good and worthy Mrs. Cha- 
pone. 3 The late Bishop of Winchester 4 allowed her £20 
a-year out of his annual income of above £6000, and has 
only added 30 p d a-year more for her life. He has greatly 
provided for his sons-in-law and all his relations by livings 
and places, long before his death and if he would not 
distinguish her as a relation it would have done him 
honour to have placed such an uncommon and estimable 
woman, whose talents have been so nobly employed at 
least in an easy state of life ; but Providence, who has 
enriched her mind with useful as well as elegant senti- 
ments, will give her the best support — that of contentment I 

Mrs. Foley, I hope, will have Mrs. Chris. Vrankin this 
week, she seems impatient for her ; her children have 
begun with Mr. Bolton and he is liked by Mr. and Mrs. 
Foley as well as the little ones. 



1 Lady Louisa Grey died unmarried in 1830. 

2 " Bishop of Litchfield, now Worcester." — Dr. Hurd. 

3 "Mrs. Chapone" — Miss Mulso. 

4 Dr. John Thomas, Bishop of Winchester, died 1781. 



20 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

My company last Tuesday were, Mrs. Stow and her 
2 daughters the youngest but 6 and plays several minuets 
and cotillions, in most exact time and perfectly clean, so 
she bids fair to be as early a wonder as her sister ! My 
circle consisted of Dss D r Port d , Lady Bute, Lady Wal- 
ling" 1 , Mr. and Mrs. and Miss Keate, Miss Hamilton, (acci- 
dentals) Lady Clarendon and Lady Charlotte Hyde, Mrs. 
Vesey, but as I had nothing to do but short civility's 
marshalling my company, and listning silently in my 
easy chair, I was not much fatigued. The little demi 
semi quaver played a minuet in such good time without 
any hesitation that y r daughter and the eldest Miss Stowe 
danced to it ! 

To-morrow morning curiosity brings S r Abram and 
L y Hume 1 at 1 o'clock to see my book of plants ; in the 
evening I expect the repast of Doct r Beattie's company 
and I hope Mr. Montagu and a few choice spirits. 

No account that can be positively depended upon is 
yet come from Lady Char. Finch : a report that she 
found Lord Winchelsea alive, living upon a quart of 
asses milk a-day, half a pint at a time, his only food ! 
and that she was going with him to Nice, if he could 
travel — a deplorable situation for poor Lady C. F., and 
indeed for all her friends in England, who are very 
anxious about her. I expect this morning Lady Clan- 
brasil and L d Foley's little daughter. 2 I believe he will 
at last consent to letting her go to Ireland with her Aunt 



1 Sir Abraham Hume, Bart., married ■ , daughter of the Hon. 

Dr. John Egerton, Bishop of Durham, and grand-daughter, maternally, of 
Henry Grey, Duke of Kent. 

2 Harriet, only daughter of Thomas, 2nd Lord Foley. She married, 
16th Aug., 1796, Christopher Bethell Codrington, Esq. ; and died, 1st Jan., 
1843. 



OF MRS. DELANT. 21 

(Man., it is strange and like all his oilier absurdities that 
he should not rejoice fco have her under y 6 protection of 
such a friend whilst he is incessantly pursuing his game 
at Newmarket, &c. 

I hope you and her papa will excuse G a 's not writing, 
i8 she wishes much to do, but every spare moment I 
wheedle her to her harpsicord as it is a pitty she should 
not profit as much as she can by Mr. Snow's directions. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

Tuesday morning, May 15th, 1781. 

Is it possible for Miss Hamilton to spare any part of 
this evening from 8 to 10, on her friends in St. James's 
Place ; if it is she will make them happy. Mrs. Delany 
has a long story to tell her. Mrs. Delany has company 
to dine with her or wtpu'd have named an earlier hour. 



Mrs.' Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

19th May, 1781. 

I am to make Gr. M. A.'s apology for the shortness of 
her letter ; very willingly would she have filled a folio, 
but a Mr. Bolton, 1 a Mr. French, 2 a Mrs: Delany, and 
a Mr. Snow, 3 make such demands on her that she must 
bottle up all she has to write till she can pres 1 it by word 
of mouth. She is pure well. Lady Clanbrassil has been 



i Writing-master. 

2 Mr. French, Scotch dancing-master. 

3 Mr. Snow, music-master. 



22 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

with me this morning and says she shall go to her sister 
Winnington the first week in June, and has offered in the 
kindest manner to take the charge of your daughter and 
deliver her safe into her father's hands. She is really 
very attentive and affectionate and has a vast liking to 
Mary, and I think it will keep up my spirits to have the 
dear child go in so comfortable a manner and I hope it 
will appear to you so. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

St. James's Place, Sunday, 
20th May, 1781. 

A bad head-ache yesterday prevented my sending my 
dear Miss Hamilton a line of congratulation on the 
return of a day 1 so infinitly valuable. I feel its conse- 
quence too much to express, and am as little able to do 
justice to the flow of good wishes that it may prove every 
year a blessing to her who is a blessing to all. I expect 
you and your gentleman according to promise, here at 
what hour you please ; you will find y r most affectionate 
humble ser*, 

M. Delany. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

Tuesday, 22nd May, 1781. 

I am much obliged to my dear Miss Hamilton for the 
enclosed letter, and heartily wish for still better accounts. 
I should have called on you yesterday, but it was a bad 
day with me, and you are too busy this morning were I 

1 The Editor is unable to explain this date, as 18th January was the 
birthday of Queen Charlotte ; and June 4th of George III. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 23 

able. I want to say a word or two to you ab 1 Lady 
Darfcrey's 1 proposal before farther proceedings. 

Y", 

M. Delany. 



Miu Hamilton to Mrs. Delany. 

Saturday morning, £ past 7 o'clock. 

My D™ Mrs. Delany, 

I have the pleasure of informing you that their 
Majesties last night order 'd me to acquaint you that 
they wish to have the pleasure of seeing you this evening 
at the Queen's house. I w d have call'd upon you this 
morning, but I was apprehensive of intruding at so early 
an hour, and I could not postpone what I know will be 
such agreable intelligence. I am to send to the Dss D. 
of Portland. 

Ever dear madam, 

Most aff ly yours, 

M. Hamilton. 

As I expect company this morning, I should be glad 
if you would send y r servant w th the note to y e Dss. 



1 " Lady Dartrey."— Philadelphia Hannah, only daughter of Thomas 
Freame, Esq., and grand-daughter of William Penn, Esq., founder of 
Philadelphia. She was the second wife of Thomas Dawson, Baron Dartrey, 
created Viscount Cremorne, 1785. 



24 LIFE AND CORKESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Delany to Miss Port, of Ham. 

May 25th, 1781. 

Accept my dearest G. M. of this small token as my 
birthday offering ; the intrinsick worth, tho' trifling, will 
receive an additional value as a testimony of my affec- 
tion ; and may it prove an emblem of y r future merit, 
ever pure and unchangeable ! You have wished me to write 
to you on the subject of attention. I think that very wish 
will lead you to it, and make you feel its consequence. 
You will not only reap the benefit of it by improving in 
all your lessons, but make those happy you wish most 
to please, particularly 

Your ever affectionately, 

M. Delany. 

Being now entered into my 8 2d year, must plead my 
excuse for bad writing. 1 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Grlan Villa. Saturday morn, 1781. 

When I receiv'd your kind letter yesterday, my dear 
friend, it was so excessive hot that I long'd for a carrier 
pigeon to fly to you with my answer — viz., " Come now 
this evening in the cool, were it only to let Miss Port 
see how pleasant the morning bower will be to-morrow 
when 4 mowers begin to whet their scythes close by ;" 



1 What Mrs. Delany called " bad writing " might be taken as a model hand 
by many persons, so legible, distinct and plain. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 25 

but bad the pigeon presented itself, T do not suppose 
you wou'd have regarded my summons, or that anything 
can move you while my Lady Duchess remains at White- 
hall. If balloons were more universal than now tbey 
are like to be, I sh d often take the liberty to intrude 
myself for an hour into her Grace's apartm*, and return 
to eat my peas with Miss Sayer, the only guest I have 
at present. I did expect Lady M* Edgcumbe to-day for 
the greatest part of next week, or as long as my lord 
cou'd spare her, but I had a letter yesterday to say she 
was unable to come as yet. When it can be agreeable 
for you to come, my dearest madam, you will let me 
know. You know, meantime, how glad I shall be to 
see you well and pleas'd as you are so good as to be with 
this cottage. But perhaps y r first steps will be to the 
dear palace of Bulstrode ; in that case I have only to 
rejoyce and send my best wishes thither. This goes by 
a chance messeng r , for we have no post out to-day. I 
Apropos 'd to have sent by him a basket of fresh straw- 
berries for Miss Port, mine being remarkably good ; but 
unluckily my messeng r is a cavalier, and I'm assur'd the 
(trotting of his horse will make my strawberries into 
amm before they reach the hand of y r fair niece, to 
whom, therefore, I can only send my good wishes for 
ier good journey. I wish, too, you and she were here 
list now ; it is so pleasant after the rain, and the hay- 
field and honeysuckles are so fragrant. Adieu, my dear 
friend. Take care of y r health. 



PART II. — VOL. III. 



26 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Delany to Miss Port, of Ham, at the Countess of Claribrassil, (9, G*), 

Stanhope Street. 1 

Tuesday morning, 1st June, 1781. 

I am, my dearest Mary, convinced of your sincere 
gratitude, and I wanted no token to confirm it ! I will 
not say one word on a tender subject we felt mutually, 
but rejoice in the prospect of your being happy with 
your dear papa, mama, brothers and sisters, &c. ; all 
asking you a thousand questions about the fine folks you 
have seen, &c, &c, and you almost out of breath with 
answering them. I begin this to-day, tho' I don't intend 
to send it till Thursday, as just now I can think of 
nothing else but my dear child, and I thank God, tho' I 
in some measure can't help regretting her absence, I am 
so happy with the thoughts of her being particularly 
comfortable and useful to her dear mama that it compen- 
sates for that regret. 

Here comes back Eea with an account of a delaj^ about 
your journey, and assuring me you are quite satisfied 
with dear Lady Clanbrassil's most kind design of keeping 
you under her wing 1 till the hour of your setting out, 
which is certainly the best scheme for all parties ; and I 
thank you, my dear child, for so sensibly and properly 
accepting the very kind offer L y C. makes you of stay- 
ing with her till convenient to her to set out ; but what 
can I desire you to say for me to my dear friend L y C. 
for her goodness to you, but the kindness of her own 
heart will do justice to mine. I shall dine, as I proposed, 
at Mrs. Walsingham's, and come home to meet Lady 
Bute at seven, and suppose you are on the road, as at 



1 Lady Clanbrassil's house was 9, Great Stanhope Street, May fair. 



I 



OF MRS. DELANY. 27 

this moment it seems to clear up. Heaven bless you, 
my dearest child, and your dear protectress, I know 
you will make her as cheerful as you can, which will 
make you still dearer to y' ever affect* 8 

M. Delany. 

Sou see I have changed my mind about sending my 
letter. I thought you would like to receive it now, and 
so I will write again on Thursday. I assure you 1 am 
pure well, as JRea will tell you. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss rort, of Tlam. 

Thursday night, 3rd June. 
MY DEAREST DEAR MARY, 

I sent Bea with the enclosed to you, as I thought 
had you staid to-night in town you would be glad to 
her again, and receive my letter. Miss Foley was 
so good as to make me a visit this morning, which was 
soothing to us both ; she advised me to enclose this 
letter for you, that you might have it on the road. Mrs. 
Dunbar met me at Mrs. Walsingham's. Lady Bute has 
been here all the afternoon, comes again to-morrow ; Mr. 
Montague is come to town. I have had a charming 
letter from the Duchess of Portland. She is very well, 
delighted with Margate ; comes to town, I hope, on 
Friday. I write this by candle-light j perhaps you'll 
think I write it in the dark. God bless my dear child ; 
my best compliments to all at Kingham, 1 my love to 
dear L y Clan : I assure you I am very well, and going 
to eat an artichock for my supper. 

1 Query Kingston, Oxfordshire, the seat of Richard Clarke, Esq., who 
jnarried the Hon. Alary Foley. 

D 2 



28 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Delany's invariable strength of mind, founded on strength 
of principle and absence of selfishness (which indeed cannot exist 
with consistent principles), is very apparent in this letter. The 
beloved child was only in G fc Stanhope Street, and Mrs. Delany in 
St. James's Place, but she would not allow of her return to renew 
the sorrow of parting on either side, although Lady Clanbrassil's 
journey was delayed. She contented herself with receiving an 
account brought by her waiting-woman, Rea, and set the child 
the example of cheerfulness by letting her know that she herself 
would go to Mrs. Walsingham's, as she had before arranged, and 
reminded Miss Port of her duty to Lady Clanbrassil, who it may 
be remembered was the daughter of Grace Granville, wife of 
the 1st Lord Foley, and one of the favourite cousins of Mrs. 
Delany and her sister, Mrs. Dewes. 



Mrs. Delany to her nephew, Bev. J. Dewes. 

St. James's Place, 8th June, 1781. 

Much I enjoy my dear nephew's happiness in his dear 
wife's going on so well, and hope strength and spirits 
will be properly established, and bless all her friends, as 
well as herself. I am, I thank God, tolerably well: 
my spirits a little ruffled with the thought of loos- 
ing my sweet companion, but am thankful to have had 
her so long, and am really impatient now to have her 
with her dear mother, to whom she will be a cordial and 
a comfort. 

Jenny Hunter's brother has just now been with me 
and has deposited in my hands eighteen pounds, whic 
he wants to remit to his mother, and begs you will be 
so good as to give that sum to his mother from him. 

I believe I shall hardly go to Bulstrode till the begi 
ning of July. The Dss Dow r Portland talks of goin 



t 



OF MRS, DELANY. 29 

to Weymouth before she settles there. If my courage 

holds out I have thoughts of spending the time of the 
Dss's absence at Bill Hill. 

More words about G. M. Lady Clanb 1 says it will be 
Friday before she will reach Utoxeter ; perhaps it may 
be Saturday. They go to Hasely next Tuesday, and 
don't set out till eleven. I shall write a line or two to 
Ham next Tuesday. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Ddany. 

Colny Hatch, 13th June, Wensday. 

Too good a reason indeed you had, my dearest madam, 
for not honouring my cottage with your presence yester- 
day, as it was detrempe with torrents of rain ; I have 
now this great pleasure to come, and shall depend upon 
it. I need not know when, for I wou'd chuse it should 
be just when the fancy takes you, that is, just when the 
weather seems to invite you abroad, and you feel as if 
you shou'd like a country-jaunt to any cottage upon the 
road. Certes you could find none where your arrival 
will make a little holyday more truly than it will here. 
Yesterday I fear was very unlike a holyday with you, 
my dear madam ; and the parting with your favourite 
very painfull, tho' her journey was so well and so plea- 
santly contriv'd. You have been surpriz'd with a visit 
from Lady Gower, and not so agreeably as you cou'd 
have wish'd, for I fear you thought her lady p look'd very 
ill ; however, I hope Dr. Warren and her own excellent 
constitution will bring all right again with God's bless- 
ing. Mrs. Leveson, who ventur'd to spend the day here 



30 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

yesterday, told me my lady meant to return to Bill Hill 
today or tomorrow, which is, I hope, a good sign, as I'm 
sure she has no proper person in the medical way to assist 
her there. My best wishes attend her. She has been 
uniformly kind and good to me ever since I had the 
honour to belong to her. 

I depend upon your kind promise, and you will be 
sure to find me. I have no engagem 1 but on Friday 
next, and that none that you would object to, only I am 
covetous, and wish to have you to myself in all the quiet 
which this green retreat affords. 

Grod bless you, my ever dear friend. Believe me 
Most affectionately, most gratefully 

Yours, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 

Miss Sayer begs to present her respects, and rejoyces 
to hear that you intend us the honour of a visit. We are 
all over roses. I saw Lord and Lady Mansfield on 
Monday ; both well. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Port, of Bam. 

St. James's Place, 14th June, 1781. 

I hope my dearest Gr. M. received my letter, enclosed 
to Mr. A. Foley at Kingham, as it must testify how 
much she was in my thoughts, and I know that will 
give her pleasure. I was very glad to find when I sent 
Eea to Stanhope Street, after I was set down at Mrs. 
"Walsingham's, that you were gone ! and you travelled so 
pleasurably, and with so kind a friend, that it kept up 
my spirits ; and I assure you I am pure well, and going 



OF Mils. DBLANY. -1 

to make a morning visit to the Dowager Lady Gower. 
Yesterday morning I wrote out tlu* enclosed minuet. I 
don't allow myself to dwell on the many kind and pretty 
attentions you paid me, and the satisfaction I had in 
your application to y r different lessons, for fear I should 
too much regret the interruption of them for some 
months, but please myself with the hopes that you will 
i\ap the benefit of them, and improve daily by y r con- 
stant recollection and practice of them all : indeed, my 
dear child, the advantage of your being under the eye 
and direction of your dear mama and her valuable deputy 1 
are such as cannot fail to do every thing for you I can 
wish. When I hear you are at home safe and sound, and 
all well there, I shall be quite happy. 

Yesterday evening I had Lady Bute, Lady Wey., 
Lady Wal d ., and Mrs. Dunbar. Mr. Montague is come 
to town very well, sorry to miss you ; he goes again in a 
few days, and invited me to go with him to his forest 
for the time of the Duchess of Portland's being at 
"Weymouth ; the temptation was strong, but the journey 
rather too long ; besides, I am afraid of the " Morning 
Post /" I had a letter yesterday from our inestimable 
Duchess. She had a good journey ; likes Margate and y e 
country about it ; is very well ; and I hope will be back 
by next Saturday 

Your poor little rival Miss Tatton is dead ; she died 
on the road going home. I pitty her poor parents. She 
was a fine child ; and the Dean of York and Mrs. Foun- 
tayne are quite afflicted for her. I desire you will make 
all my kindest compliments to Ham and Calwich. My 



1 Mis* A. Viankin. 



32 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

love to my dearest M. ; she has been very good in writ- 
ing so constantly. I am, my dearest child, 

Ever your affectionate 

M. Delany. 

B-ea begs leave to send her respects ; she looks dolorous 
(as well, she may). At my return from my visit this morn- 
ing to Lady Gower, I found Lady Clanbrassil's letter with 
y r P.S. ; I was happy to hear you were well so far.' 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

St. James's Place, June 18th, 1781. 

I must, my dear Miss Hamilton, enquire after your 
health ; it is too precious for your friends not to be 
interested about. As a fillip to the spirits is one means 
of restoring health, I must tell you that the Duchess 
Dowager of Portland is returned from Margate entirely 
to my satisfaction, then judge how well she is ! I have 
had many lonely hours in her absence — and my little 
enlivener.gone too I and I have been mortified by a diss- 
apointment in an entertainment I was given encourage- 
ment to hope for ; no less than the publication of Mr. 
Gilpin's Tours, 1 with the drawings, both so excellent in 
their way and lost to the public from the check of pru- 
dence, which will not allow him to run the hazard of so 



i The Rev. William Gilpin was born at Carlisle in 1724. Besides many 
volumes of Divinity, he wrote " Remarks on Forest Scenery," and two series 
of " Observations relative to Picturesque Beauty." He was Vicar of Boldre, 
and died there in 1804. His brother, Saurey Gilpin, R.A., was a celebrated 
painter of horses and wild beasts. 



OF Ida DELANT. 33 

great an expence. I think diffidence and modesty has some 
share in his reluctance; I wish 1 COu'd ■steal (for I fear I 
shall never influence) out of the mischievous banks at the 
gaming tables four or five hundred pounds, and bestow 
it on a work that wou'd do honour, not only to the 
very worthy and ingenious author, but to the country 
which he lives in. Forgive this lamentation ; but you are 
too favourable to rational entertainments and pleasures 
that enlarge, instead of deadening the understanding, not 
only to forgive, but to join in my regret. I am going 
for some days to quit my little nitch (some repairs making 
it necessary), and go to my never failing assylum at 
Whitehall ; but as her Grace proposes making her visit 
to Weymouth before she settles at Bulstrode, I shall 
bewail my widdow r -hood in my own house or at Bill Hill. 
If you have received any comfortable accounts from 
Lisbon I am sure it will give you pleasure to communi- 
cate them. 

I trust you know, without my repeating them, how 
constantly and ardently my wishes hover round you and 
your illustrious mansion, being, with true esteem, 
My dear madam, 

Your most affectionate 

And most obliged, humble ser vt , 

M. Delany. 

The Duchess of Portland desires me to present her 
affectionate compliments to you. 



34 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Port, of Bam. 

Bow window, Whitehall. 
20th June, 1781. Wednesday. 

My dearest Gr. M., 

I promised to address my next letter to you when 
I wrote last post to your papa, and am so impatient to 
wish my dear child joy of her dear mama's being brought 
to bed safe and well, and of yonr having another sister, 1 
that I begin the first leisure moment, tho' my letter 
does not go till tomorrow. I was very happy to hear 
you got home well, and had the satisfaction of hearing 
from L y Clanbrazil that you were an excellent traveller, 
and cheered her very much by the way ; she is a dear 
and valuable friend; and I am sure your good and 
grateful heart will always remember her kindness and 
attention to you ; at present I imagine you all attention 
to your dear mama, delighted to be of use to her, and a 
comfort during her confinement ; great quietness is so 
necessary to restore strength that there cannot be too 
much caution, especially this very hot, oppressive 
weather ; but you have two such excellent assistants 
in your papa and A. Y. that I think no lady in the 
straw will be better nursed, and so I leave the rest of my 
letter till tomorrow. 

Thursday morn g hotter and hotter. 

Yesterday evening I had the happiness of receiving 
yours and your papa's letters. Give him my best thanks 
for the satisfactory account he has sent me, which he 



1 Harriet, third daughter of Mrs. Port, of Ham, was born in July, 1781. 
Her sponsors were the Countess Stamford, the Viscountess Andover, and 
Frederic Montagu, Esq. She died, unmarried, in Sept., 1824. 



OF MRS, DBLANY. 35 

wrote with such good (black) ink T cou'd read it without 
difficulty; but yours, my dearest (1. M., cost me much 
pains to read, not from the writing (which was very 
tolerable), but from the paleness of the ink: however, I 
docypher'd your kind meaning, and must always feel 
pleasure from every mark of your kindness. My best love 
to your dearest mama; she knows how happy I must feel 
with the good acc ts I receive of, and trust in the good- 
ness of God they will continue j I also depend upon you 
to remember me to all at Ham and Calwich. 

I could not make out by y r letter from Kingham what 
you want by "M. Genii* little book ;" as Madame de Genlis 
{Teat re) is in four little vols; but when I know what 
you meant I will take care and send it the first oppor- 
tunity, for your books are gone from Stanhope Street. 
Bea is much obliged to you for your kind remembrance 
of her ; she misses you sadly ; so does Molly Butcher, 
who is quite melancholy for want of a joke, and at present 
iconder fully cross ; and truly no wonder, as the house is 
full of workmen, and so offensive from its being laid open 
that she and Bytha can neither eat nor sleep ; but I 
hope in a few days it will be comfortable ; the stopping 
up of the drains was occasioned by the rats ! Next 
Monday the Dss of Portland goes, please God, to "Wey- 
mouth. Don't expect me to write quite so often, as the 
hot weather make my e}^es more apt to dazzle. 

Mrs. Walsing m has at last put on her mourning ; we go 
to her this evening. Tomorrow Lady Bute, Lady Jer m , 
Lady "Walling' 1 , Mr. Montagu come here; Saturday we 
spend the day at Kenwood. Every body enquires after my 
little dear companion, and are sorry for me. The Dss D. of 
Portland sends many thanks for y r elegant letter and the 



36 



LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



little chrysalis, which is taken care of. Miss Fran 8 Thynne 
has got y e measles, so I suppose they will all have it. A 
letter with a better account is come from Lady C. Finch. 
Miss Hamilton at Windsor, tho' not quite well. Poor 
Miss Tatton's death was on the road, a disorder in the 
throat, which they call " the croupe'' I never heard of it 
before, and fear I have spelt the word wrong. 

I can write no more. I thank God I am well in health, 
and ever, 

My dearest child, ever y r affect te 

M. Delany. 

Lord Ed d Ben k is better. If I have made any blunders 
you must allow for my not being able to read my letter 
over. Alas ! my young spectacles are " over the hills and 
far away." 

Pray make my particular compliments to Mr. and 
Mrs. W. Beresford. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Port, of Ham. 

St, James's Place, 26th June, 1781. 

My dearest child, I thank you for your very satisfactory 
letter, and am truly happy to receive so good an account 
of your most dear mama and sister Harriet. T am glad 
Lady Clanbrassil has had the pleasure of seeing her, if it 
did not hurry her spirits, as I know it was a mutual 
satisfaction. I came home again last night. Now that 
the treasure is gone from Whitehall the palace has no 
charms for me ! and tho' I have lost my dear little 
enlivener at home it is even now pleasanter than to go 
any where else. 



OF MRS. DELAXY. 37 

Your friends at Blandford have got leave from Mr. 
Pitt to angle and fish in his river at Blandford. J\fasf 
Sandfordhss desired me to send him some of little Poll's 
feathers as they drop; I suppose they make flies to 
angle with. It' you could spare a few and send them to 
me for him I will convey them, and you shall have more 
as they drop, which they do not at present ; and he also 
desires a good impression of your antique seal on a nice 
bit of card that is not written upon, — with his best 
compliments to you and he will if he can explain it. 

Mrs. Walsingham has put on her weeds ; I spend to 
day with her. 



The Eev. W. Gilpin to Mrs. Delany, in St. James's Place, London. 

Vicar's Hill, June 27, 81. 

Madam, 

It gives me great pleasure to hear so favourable an 
ace 1 of y r health, w ch will long, I hope, enable you to set 
an example to a dissipated age, and instruct it, if it could 
follow instruction, in y e true pleasures of a rational life. 
You do my works, mad m , much greater honour than 
they deserve ; but y e more y r considerations extend their 
value y e more agreable it is to me, for, as I cannot attri- 
bute y e overplus to flattery, I must place it to y e account 
of friendship. If I can meet with an opportunity y 3 
summer I shall endeavour to increase y r collection of 
drawings by one or two more : and if my Lady Dutchess 
will not think it impertinent I will add another in y e 
same parcel for her. I think, mad m , I once gave you an 
account of my present amusement ; the work now swells 
into size, and is to conclude with a short history of the 



38 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

New Forest and a description of some of its most beauti- 
ful scenes ; I have just now been taking a little tour 
round its eastern parts, and bave brought home with 
me a budget full of remarks. After lakes and moun- 
tains I give y e preference to forest scenes among all y e 
pictures of nature. 

Mr. Mason did not absolutely discourage me from 
printing my lakes and mountains, but only advised me 
to try some smaller work first. I have thought of cor- 
recting and printing y* little excusion w ch Mrs. Leveson 
shewed you ; the matter depends on a nephew of mine, 
who thinks he has skill enough in his art to etch y e 
drawings in aqua tinta, and wishes to try. He is now 
making an essay. Having mentioned a nephew to you, 
madam, may I take y e liberty to mention a neice ? She 
has learned embroidery under Mrs. Wright and her 
kinswoman, Mrs. Powsey, and is now in London en- 
deavouring to recomend herself in that way. You will 
not suppose, mad m , y* I wish to engage you in any 
troublesome or disagreable recommendations ; very far 
from it ; but it is possible that in your extensive ac- 
quaintance there may be some young ladies, who may 
want to learn embroidery, and whom a word from you 
would fix. My neice is a very good young woman, and 
T believe not unqualified in her art ; she is y e daughter of 
a very worthy clergyman at Carlisle, Mr. Farish (an old 
acquaintance and brother botanist of Mr. Lightfoot), she 
is at present, I believe, with a lady at Clapham, but may 
be heard of at Mrs. Carlisle's, a milliner, in Davis Street, 
Berkly Square. I beg my very respectful compliments 
to my Lady Dutchess, and am, mad m , y r most obed 4 , 
humb e serv*, Will. Gilpin. 



OF MRS. in: LA NY. 39 

The Editor has two of Mr. Gilpin's drawings which were given 
to Mrs. Delany, and are very beautiful landscapes in sepia and 
umber. 



Mrs. Dittany to Miss Port, of llam. 

Glanvilla, 23rd July, 1781. 

I promised in my last letter to Ham that my next 
should be to my dear girl, and, as promises ought always 
to be kept, I begin before the post day lest it should not 
be in my power if delay'd. I was much obliged to you 
for your last letter, and for the pains you take in your 
writing. Now I will try and recollect what I have 
lately heard and seen. In the first place, Lord Aylsford 
is to marry Miss Thynne. I came here on Thursday 
last ; Mrs. Beckingham sent her chaise for me to dine 
there in my way, and from thence I wrote a few lines to 
y r mama. This is a rural place, with shady walks and 
bowers, wdiose laurel walls are all interwoven with orange 
trees and mirtles in flower, geraniums, jessamin, and 
roses, &c. ; these are pleasures that never tire ! and the 
addition of her conversation and kindness makes it very 
delightful. Her two grandsons, Lord Worcest rl and 
L d Charles Somerset, 2 come to her every Saturday to 
dinner from Westminster school, and return on Monday 
morning between 5 and 6 ; they are modest, well-behav'd 
boys, or, rather, young men, being almost at y e top of 
the school. I forgot to tell you Miss Beckingham's hair 



1 Henry Charles, Marquess of AVorcestcr, afterwards 6th Duke of Beaufort. 

2 Lord Charles Henry Somerset, second son of Henry, 5th Duke of Beaufort, 
born 12th Dec., 1707 ; died in 1831. 



40 LIFE AND COKRESPONDENCE 

is turned up, 1 which has improv'd her looks extreamly, 
and they think her forehead like yours ; desired me to 
make their kindest complim ts to you, and said many 
obliging things about you. Last Friday morning Lady 
Mansfield and Miss Murray came here from Kenwood 
and invited Mrs. Boscawen and all her guests to dine 
there yesterday, which we did; and a most agreeable 
day it proved. Lord Mansfield in charming spirits ; 
and after dinner, when the sun was declining, he invited 
me to walk round his garden and thro' his wood, and by 
the time we came back to tea it was 8 o'clock ; we had 
walk'd two miles at least, and, tho' I felt a little tired, 
the pleasure of the place and his conversation made me 
not sensible of it till I came home ; a good night's rest 
has recruited me, and I am, I thank God, well to day. 

Thus far I wrote yesterday, and recollect I did not tell 
you what we did on Friday, the day after I came here : 
— we went at 6 in the evening to Hadley, where your 
acquaintance, Mr. and Mrs. Smith, 2 live. She has been 
in a dangerous state of health, but is much better. 
There we found all the family of the Burrows' s assembled, 
except Mr. Burrows, who was not well ; they live in the 
neighbourhood of one another. Mrs. Chapone and Lord 
and Lady Lartree 3 were there, and I have promised 



i By " turning up " the hair is meant the front hair turned back. 

2 Culling Smith, Esq., of Hadley, married Mary, daughter of John Burrows, 
and sister of the Rev. Dr. Burrows, rector of Hadley and of St. Clement 
Danes. Mr. Culling Smith was created a Baronet in 1802. 

3 Thomas Dawson, Esq., elevated to the Peerage of Ireland, 28th May, 
1770, as Baron Dartrey, and advanced to the dignity of Viscount Cremorne, 
9th June, 1785. He married, first (15th July, 1754), Anne, daughter of 
Thomas, Earl of Pomfret, who died in 1769; and secondly, 8th May, 1770; 
Philadelphia Hannah, only daughter ot Thomas Freame, Esq., and grand- 
daughter of William Penn, Esq., founder of Philadelphia. 



OF MRS. DELAXY. 41 

them to go to Chelsea, and make them a visit on Thurs- 
day morn*; for I go to town to-morrow, the same way T 
came. To-day some neighbouring gentlemen dine here, 
and in the evening we go to Bnsh Hill, 4 miles off, to 
make a visit to Mrs. J. Mellish, who was here to see me 
when I was out. One of our little Polls has had a nar- 
row escape ; Bea thinks puss was the enemy that attack'd 
him, for some thing had torn off very rudely several of 
his feathers, and the ends of them were all bloody, and 
the poor little creature droop'd sadly for 3 or 4 days, but 
is now recover'd ; however, it has caused some dissen- 
sion in my family, for Molly Butcher defends her cat, 
and is sure it was done by a mouse. I leave you to decide 
which is most likely ? for the disputants will neither of 
them yield. What makes the suspicion thrown upon 
puss very strong is, that the next morning, when I was 
dressing, and the cage standing in its usual place, up 
flew puss upon the leads, and had the window been open, 
wou'd have put a fatal end to y e dispute. This is a long 
letter, my dear child, and a proof of my love to you, as I 
cannot often (tho' ever so willing) perform so much. As 
I do not wish you should write above an hour in y e day, 
I would propose to you to begin a letter to me a week 
before you send it, and write 5 or 6 lines in a day as 
well as you can write it, which I hope would not tire 
you, but would give great pleasure to my dearest Gr. M. A. 
Your most affectionate aunt, 

M. Delany. 
Tell me how Mrs. Winnington does, and if Miss Foley 
is with her, and pray make my complim* to Mr. and 
Mrs. W. Beresford. Bea begs leave to present her 
respects. 

PART II. VOL. III. E 



42 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



TJie Earl of Guilford to Mrs. Belamj. 

Wroxton, Aug. 2nd, 1781. 

Madam, 

Your very obliging letter shamed me by coming 
before I had troubled you. But two reasons had occa- 
sioned my silence. First, an unwillingness to occasion 
you the trouble of writing, and then wishing to avoid 
the unpleasant employment of giving a bad account of 
my health and spirits, which I must have done if I had 
wrote till very near this time. I got very well to S r 
Charles Tynte's, 1 and passed two days very chearfully 
there. But, during the time I was there, a great deal of 
very heavy rain falling, made the roads, which are mended 
with stone, so jumbling, that I was extreamly fatigued, 
and had a return of several disagreeable complaints, 
which made me for a time absolutely good for nothing. 
Some impediments happen d to prevent Lord and Lady 
Willoughby coming to me so soon as they designed, but 
when I grew tolerably well I went to Compton, where 
the air, and their company, the pleasure it gives me to 
see the annual improvements of that place, and the 
children in perfect health, has quite set me up. They 
have been so good as to return hither with me, and their 
two eldest children, so we have two of Lord Bagot's 
sisters. 2 The weather is extreamlv favourable, and we 



1 Sir Charles Kemeys Tynte, Bart., of Halsewell, county Somerset ; repre* 
sentative of the ancient family of Kemeys (Cemaes), of Cefnmabli. He died, 
s. p., in 1785, when his estates devolved upon his niece, the grandmother of 
the present Col. Charles Kemeys Tynte, of Halsewell and Cefnmabli. 

2 AVilliam, 1st Lord Bagot, had three sisters, viz., Barbara, married to Ralph 
Sneyd, Esq. ; Maria, to Rowland "Wmgfield, Esq. ; and Harriet, who died, 
unmarried, in 1825. 






OF MRS. DELANT. ±3 

are able to live much out of doors, which is always a 
very desirable circumstance at Wroxton. It gives to 
my guests, as well as myself, great pleasure to hear 

you are at Length got out of Purgatory, and arrived at 
Paradise — (Bulstrode) and that the Dutchess of Portland 
has brought such health from Weymouth as to make 
your enjoyment of it compleat. Your visit at Gl an villa. 
must hare made a very agreeable break in your long 
time cf pennance, and contributed much to prevent- 
ing your suffering by it. The Bishop of Winchester, 1 . 
Mrs. North, and their family, whom you are so good as 
to mention, are at Farnham Castle, very well and happy, 
tho' unsettled, and hitherto suffering several incon- 
veniences incident to a change of benefice, tho' from a 
worse to a better. But they give very pleasing descrip- 
tions of their place and country. Lord Dartmouth has 
been frequently pulled a little back by oVer-fatiguing 
himself, but he was this day to set out upon his progress 
to Lymington and Weymouth, and other places in the 
West, which will, I hope, perfectly recover him. S r 
Richard Jebb 2 declares very positively that he has no 
symptom which portends the least danger ; but his life 
is of such infinite value to the publick, as well as his 
own family ; and his amiable disposition makes him so 
justly beloved by all who know him, that it is impossible 
for me to feel quite easy whilst he labours under any 
degree of indisposition. Poor Lord North has had a 



1 The Hon. Brownlow North, Bishop of Worcester, was translated to the 
Bishopric of Winchester in 1781. 

2 Sir Richard Jebb, M.D., Physician Extraordinary to the King, and 
Physician in ordinary to the Prince of Wales. lie was created a. Baronet in 
1778, and died, unmarried, in 1787. 

n 2 



44 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

disagreable feverish cold, but I "have the satisfaction of 
hearing, by the post last night, that it is pretty well 
over. I am ashamed of my ignorance with respect to 
the Comet ; but I had not heard of till I had the pleasure 
of receiving your letters, and I here now it has disap- 
pear' d. I have lately had a letter from our friend at 
Papplewick, in very good spirits, and I hope for the 
pleasure of seeing him here in about a month. It is high 
time that I desire you to accept of the compliments and 
best wishes of my guests, and present them for us to the 
Dutchess of Portland. Notwithstanding our bright sun 
and blue sky we have cool breeze, of which we should be 
glad to send a little to Bulstrode, if we knew how to 
convey it. If you have enough of that you can want 
nothing else. Believe me, madam, with the most sin- 
cere esteem and regard, 

Your most obedient and obliged humble servant, 

Guildford. 



The Dowager-Countess Oower to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill, 12 Aug., 81. 

I have pity'd myself often and often y l I'm not for- 
tunate enough ever to have arrive to me w* I most ivish 
to see. Y e mom 1 I have a pleasing plan there starts up 
" more lions in y e way y n Affric ever bred ;" but yo r want 
of health or spirits to undertake so short a journey was a 
fierce one indeed, M rs Boscawen has been here, related 
w th w t ease you vissited her. I lamented my situation 
did not admit such resting places and reliefe. She staid 
ab* 24 hours, then scutter'd away to Badminton ; is to 



OF MRS. DELANY. 45 

call here on lior return for y c same time. I think per- 
petual motion may be found in her. 

I rejoice y e D 9 of Portland is perfectly well, to enjoy 
y* pleasant garden so many hours : y° weather continues 
favourable fory 1 purpose. All here are her Grace's and 
yo r most lib 10 serv u " 

I'm glad to hear y e good Mason is in good spirits. I've 
been told his parsonage house is a most convenient, ele- 
gant little building. Mr. IMountagu is lucky to have so 
good a surveyor. Mother Magnolia and all her daughters 
have been in full bloom for this month past, and promise 
a long succession still. She does w* she can to please her 
old 1 . . y, but at my time of life one is not dispos'd to be 
pleas'd ; tho' I'm well at this time for an old woman. 

All y s county, I believe, have begun to friz for y e ball 
at Windsor : I wish 'em well diverted, and envy 'em not. 
Since Tommy 1 is restor'd to Parliam* his ffranks (he was 
so good humour'd to give me) are restor'd to use, y* have 
long laid as out of date. I need not tell d r M rs Delany 
how much I am, &c. &c. 



Mrs. Delany to Edward Winnington, Esq? 

Bulstrode, 12th Aug., 1781. 

Sir, 

I yesterday receiv'd the favour of your very 
obliging letter and request, which I accept with sincere 



1 The Hon. Thomas Villiers, who in 177G became Lord Hyde, and in 1786 
2nd Earl of Clarendon. He died, unmarried, in 1824. 

2 Edward, eldest son of Sir Edward Winnington, of Stanford, Bart. He 
married Anne, daughter of Thomas, 1st Lord Foley, and the Hon. Grace 
Granville. 



46 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

pleasure, and acknowledgments for the honour you do 
me. Most gladly wou'd I also accept your kind invitation, 
and answer for my dear little god-daughter in person, 
but that is out of my power, and I am sure it will give 
pleasure to Mrs. Port to be my representative, as it is 
agreable to you and my dear Mrs. Wilmington, and she 
will discharge my little offering on the occasion. Your 
assurance, dear S r , of Mrs. Winnington's being so well, is 
a great satisfaction to me ; she is worthy all our care and 
attention. I beg my very affectionate compliments to 
her and Miss Foley. The country and the Dss. Dow r of 
Portland's being return cl from Weymouth in good health 
has very much revived me, and I have no reason to com- 
plain of want of health, tho' sensible of advancing time \ 
I read and write with some difficulty, but find no abate- 
ment in my attachment to my friends. That you and 
my dear Mrs. Winnington may long enjoy health and 
happiness is the sincere wish of, S 1 ', 

Your most obedient, humble servant, 

M. Delany. 

The Dss D r of Portland desires her best wishes 
to Woodseat/ and is extreamly glad to hear Mrs. 
Winnington goes on so well, and I must not omit 
mentioning Mr. Lightfoot, who is always very particular 
in his enquiries after Mr. and Mrs. Winnington, and 
often desires me to make his best complim ts ; he seems 
very happy in his new state, and so does Mrs. Lightfoot, 
indeed I believe w th reason, for he is a very worthy man. 



1 " Woodseat." — Near Uttoxeter, Staffordshire, where Mr. and Mrs. 
Winnington then resided. 



or MRS. PEL ANY. 47 



TIw Hon, Mrs. Uoscawcn to Mrs. Pr/uin/. 

V, H., Wenaday ni-ht, y* 17 Angst., 1781? 

Dbab Madam, 

I believe I need not send you the inclos'd mark'd 
u missent to St. Albans " to convince you that it must 
have wander'd wide of this place, where it never arriv'd 
till to-day. 

Most thankfully I accept y r kind proposal (idea at least) 
to come hither after early church on Sunday next. I 
shall be home from church soon after 12, and will dine, 
if you please, b} r h past 2 ; I will not, however, expect 
you till I see you. I will go to dinner at J past 2 exact, 
I shall be alone. My dear Mrs. Leveson leaves me to- 
morrow ; I wish I cou'd tell you her husband is better. 
They purpose to be at Bill Hill on Saturday, and it is a 
great pleasure to her that you will follow so soon. She 
thinks it is very happy also for Lady Gower, who she 
hopes will have her thoughts diverted by y r com- 
pany from fixing too much on her son and his present ill 
state of health, w ch is a sad disappointment and grief to 
his wife, poor soul, who wanted none — if it pleas'd God ! 
If they stay at Bill Hill I purpose to follow them in the 
course of next week. Meantime, my lonely hours will, 
I assure you, do me more good than harm. Ask y r poor 
dear friend and mourner, she will tell you that in afflic- 
tions of this kind one is really the better for being alone 
sometimes ; and, on the contrary, exceedingly oppress d 
with company, unless it be that of a sympathizing friend. 



48 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

I beg my kindest complim^ to Mrs. Sandford ; I did 
indeed wisli to see her here (till since Mr. L. return'd so 
ill), I now wish her a good journey, and the greatest 
prosperity in her sons. 

Adieu, dear madam. I will look out on Sunday. 



Tlie Marchioness of Tweeddale to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

Ham, Aug. 19th, 1781. 

My dear Mrs. Port, 

I hope this will find you quite recovered of your 
lying-in, and happily surrounded with all your olive- 
branches. Tho' this has not been with you sooner, my 
thoughts have never left you ! I have been a good deal 
shock'd with the death of poor Mr. Hay 1 at the family 
seat in Scotland. He has left a fine little future heir 
seventeen months old. His widow is a very agreable 
woman about his own age, (33), is much pity'd. My poor 
little orphan is perfectly well, and too young to know 
the loss of parents. I have not heard anything of y r good 
aunt a great while. I hope she is well, and imagine she 
is at Bulstrode. The town has married my agreable 
niece, Miss Thynne, to Lord Ailesford, and many balls 
have been made for them, which look'd like it, but I am 
not in y e secret, indeed I am so much out of the world 
that I may be quite forgot I I beg my best comp te to 



1 William Hay, of Newhall, Esq., son-in-law of the Marchioness of 
Tweeddale. His first wife was Lady Catherine Hay, who died 11th July, 1776 ; 
his second wife, whom he married 6th March, 1779, was Mary, only daughter 
of William Nisbet, of Dirleton, Esq. Mr. Hay died in 1781. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 49 

Mr. Port, and that you will embrace all my little cosins 
for me, particularly my sweet little Christian. 1 Adieu, 
my dear Mrs. Port. * 

Ever your faithfull and affec* cosin, 

P. TWEEDDALE. 



Mrs. Delany io Miss Port, of Ham. 

Bulstrode, 14th «ept., 1781. 

I am indebted to my dear child for two letters, which 
I should not have been could I write as easily as 
willingly, and I must give you up to Eea for chit-chat, 
as I can only indulge myself with a few lines. You 
must be pleased with Matlock's beauties, and going upon 
the water. I shall expect to see you a little gipsy, but 
never mind if you are well, for health is better than a 
fair face ! Eea shall give you an account of our royal 
visiters. The 2 eldest princess's are very much grown, 
Princess Eoyal extreamly pleasing in her manner. They 
all did me the honour to enquire after you, ask'd what 
employment you liked and applied most to. I said you 
loved music and reading, and read a great deal to me in 
French and English, and that work had its turn. I 
yesterday had a letter from the saylor, John Sandford 2 , 



1 The Marchioness of Tweeddale's god-child was George Rowe Port, Mrs. 
Port's second son. "t 

2 John, third son of the Rev." Daniel Sandford (and Sarah Chapone)died an 
officer in the Royal Navy in 1791. 



50 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

full of spirits. I have sent it to his mother. 1/ 
Wey. goes on very well. 1 

* My dearest G a , 

Ever your affectionate aunt, 
M. Delany. 

You should write a letter to L y Clanb 1 to enquire 
after her health, and say you cannot forget her goodness 
to you. Mr. Lightfoot's little girl is recovering. 

On 16th Sept. Mrs. Kea wrote to Miss Port as follows — 

"I am sorry to acquaint you poor Polly is dead. I layed him 
in cotton and put him in a box and sent him to London, to Mr. 
Yeat's, to be stuff'd for you ; his poor widow is in a good deal of 
trouble, and laments him very sincerely. 

" The King and Queen, the Prince of Wales, Princess Royal 
and three more Princesses, with the little Prince Octavius, paid 
a visit to Bulstrode the 2Sth of last month. Her Grace and 
Mrs. Delany returned the visit and staid out until twelve o'clock, 
but came home in good health and spirits, eate a hearty supper, 
went to bed, had a good night, and was not a bit fatigued the 
next day. Your aunte was dress'd in her new sacJc, I have sent 
you a bit of it. She looked very well. Mr. Jenkinson is dead, 
ho was formerly butler to her Grace ; they think his wife will 
not live long." 



* " On the 10th of Oct., 1781, the Viscountess Weymouth lay-in of a 
daughter." 



OF BBS. DELAM 51 

Tlic Hon. Mrs, Loscawcn to Mrs. Btlany. 

(Han Villa, 17th Sept., 1781. 

My dear Madam, 

At my return from Kent, where I had been to 
visit my good friend Lady Smythe, I rece d the great 
pleasure of your letter. Lady Mansfield told me yester- 
day that L y Weymouth never had a better lying-in, 
which I am heartily glad of, for no newspaper that I 
saw wou'd tell me that she was safe in her bed, tho' I 
search'd them carefully. Y l silence as to the sex made 
me suspect it was a dan 1 , w cb L y Mansfield confirms ; but 
as most of Lady Weymouth's daughters are beautiful], 
and all are good, methinks they may be as welcome as 
sons ! Now, my dear madam, as to S r J. Wallace, I 
never saw him in my life that I know of, but I have a 
friend whose name sounds like his, Capt. Wallis, now a 
Commissioner of the Navy, formerly the discoverer of 
Otaheite, and the first favourite of that queen of frisky 
memory. My friend is a Cornish man, and his wife 
(one of Mrs. Hearle's daughters) a Cornish woman. S r 
J. Wallace is, I believe, a Scotchman. I shou'd chink I 
can find out a berth (the sea phrase) for a chaplain, but 
then I shou'd know his name before I apply for it. I 
cannot say I sh d apply to S r J. Wallace, who is a lion 
indeed (as our enemies have felt), but of the fiercest 
kind, unless Mrs. Sandford's friend has any particular 
predilection for this comander. In that case I will cer- 
tainly inform myself whether he has a chaplain ? I trow 
not, and that he may be apt to account them " live lum- 
ber ;' e'est assez vous dire notre homme, 

I had heard (in my rambles, tho' I know not from 



52 LIFE AND COREESPONDENCE 

who,) of the Boyal visit, and I thought of you, and 
meant to have enquir'd as soon as I got home how it 
had agreed with you. Perfectly it seems, and I rejoyce 
therefore ! 

I congratulate you on completing your 9th admirable 
vol. i 1 their duration will be equal to that of the oak, 
with which you close them so properly, and so like a 
good English woman. If English women (in return) 
were but like you 1 

I am all alone in my cottage, but to-morrow I go to 
London to meet the Dss of Beaufort on her way to Mar- 
gate, where her health requires her and her eldest daug r 
to make some stay ; indeed, she carries 5 children. The 
Duke will go and see them settled, and then repair to 
his seat at Coxheath, w ch must be now swimming, I 
think. 

When I waited upon Lady Mansfield yesterday I 
found her alone, my Lord and Miss Murrays being gone 
to the christ'ning at L d Stormont's. 2 

I had a lett r lately from M* Edgcumbe. The Duchesses 
of Eutland 3 and of Devonshire 4 are both in the neigh- 
bourhood en militaires, so that if the combin'd fleet had 
visited that coast the admirals must have supposed two 
Venus' s were risen from the sea ! 



1 The 9th volume of Mrs. Delany's Flora. 

2 Charles Murray, third son of David, Viscount Stormont, who succeeded 
his uncle the Lord Chief Justice, in 1793, as Earl of Mansfield ; was bora 
Aug. 22nd, 1781. He became a Major in the army. 

3 Mary Isabella, daughter of Charles Somerset, 4th Duke of Beaufort. 

4 Georgia na, daughter of John, 1st Earl Spencer. 



OF BIBS. DELANY. 53 

Tike Hon. Mrs. Bonoawen to Mrs. Delany* 

C. Hatch, 1st Oct., 81. 

My dear Madam, 

I have an answer from my friend Capt. Wallis in 
tliese words : " With regard to the worthy clergyman, 
the case is that the Admiralty generally allow the cap- 
tains to apply for chaplains to their ships. I do not 
know any captains who are in want of chaplains ; when 
I do, I will not fail to mention your friend." The 
grenadillas ' waited upon you (Judge Ashurst 2 told me) 
from this country with so much care, that it is hop'd it 
arriv'd safe. 

Mrs. Williams sent to me yesterday the finest grapes 
I ever saw to entertain my young men of Westminster, 
who do not forget Mrs. Delany, and have often enquir'd 
after her health. 

The Duchess of Beaufort says I must make her a visit 
at Kingsgate. She has got that chateau, having found 
the lodgings taken for her at Margate very inconvenient, 
indeed much too small for her family. I am not likely 
to obey her kind summons, and much too indolent to 
stir once I am sat down by my fire-side. Miss Sayer 
comes to me to-morrow, and I reckon we are settled till 
November. 

F. B. 



1 The great granatlilla is the fruit of passiflora quadrangularis, the square- 
stalked passion-flower, a native of Jamaica, and was first cultivated in Britain 
in the year 1768. This beautiful plant was executed from nature in paper 
mosaic by Mrs. Delany. It is sometimes called the granadilla vine. 

2 Sir William Henry Ashurst, Kilt., was made one of the puisne Judges of 
the King's Bench in 1770. 



54 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Frederick Montagu, Esq., to Mrs. Delany. 

Melton, Oct. 12th, (1781 Qy.). 

My dear Madam, 

And do you really imagine that I could have 
been in London without making every possible enquiry 
after you ? I should certainly have been in St. James's 
Place, and at least have rummag'd Molly Butcher from 
head to foot, and scolded at her, till she had return'd my 
enquiries a hundred fold. 

I am here in very good health. The Dean and my 
sister were with me at Papplewick for a week, the Wil- 
son's l a fortnight. They are here now, and preparing 
for Lisbon. I hope the voyage will be of service to 
him, tho' he really does not seem to want it at present. 
From hence I go to the Weddell's, and to Mason at 
York. What commands have you to him ? 

I am afraid that the death of Lord Richard Cavendish 2 
may affect his sister. I saw her at Welbeck very well, 
but very large. Lord Edward appeared in good health. 
Lord Dartmouth is recovering. He writes very cheer- 
fully. If your friend puts the garter over Sandwich's 
shoulders instead of those of the former, I shall wish for 
Lady Gower's stile too. 

All here join with, me in respectfuli comp s to the 
Dutchess of Portland, and affectionate comp s to yourself. 
Y r most faithfull humble servant, 

Fred. Montagu. 



1 Elizabeth, third daughter of the very Rev. Dr. Fountayne, Dean of York, 
married, in 1781, Richard, eldest son of the Eight Rev. Christopher Wilson, 
Bishop of Bristol. Their son, Richard Fountayne Wilson, succeeded to the 
estates of Melton on the death of his grandfather, the Dean of York, in 1802. 

2 Lord Richard Cavendish, second son of William, 4th Duke of Devonshire, 
and brother to Dorothy, Duchess of Portland, died at Naples, 12th Sept., 1781. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 55 

P.S. I have had rather a complaining letter from L a 
Guilford. Ee was much vex\l that he could not make 
his visit at IJulstrode. 



Tlic Hon, Mrs, Boscawoi to Mrs. Delany. 

Glan Villa, 13th Oct, (Qy. 1781). 

My dear Madam, 

I believe I ought not to detain Mrs. Sandford's 
letter, especially as I do not want it by way of me- 
morandum, for Capt. Wallis lias promis'd me not to 
forget Mr. Th<f Meruit. I assure you, my dear madam, 
if his motive for naming S r J.W, was because he under- 
stood a new-built ship was given him ; he cou'd not have 
a worse reason for preference, as I know enough of these 
matters to decide that new-built ships are always unhealthy 
the first voyage or two ; probably owing to the new 
timber, but the fact is so, and Mr. Tho s Mends will I hope 
have better luck than to get into a new-built ship ! 

My dear madam, I have had a letter from Mrs. Yesey, 
a very kind one, on occasion of my loss of poor Mrs. 
Boone. She tells me that Mr. Yesey is surprizingly well, 
and she writes in very good spirits, I think. She names 
many of her friends and you, my dear madam, you may 
be sure. The beginning of her letter quite a copperplate, 
the latter part not so easy to decypher.. I have answer 'd 
it, and given her such an account of Bulstrode as I am 
sure she will be glad to receive. 

Mrs. Williams was here to-day with her young gar- 
dener, who bro t me a charming bundle of plants and a 
delightfull basket of grapes for my young Westm™, who 
are also supply Yl with such a cargo of beurre pears from 



56 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Bill Hill that I think y r neighbour (Betty Neale) cannot 
exceed us in fruit. Lady Gower is very well, and has 
rode on horseback lately. Lord Mansfield honour'd me 
with a visit last Saturday, and you may be sure the 
pleasure equal' d the honour, however great. The ladies 
were gone that day to London. My L d look'd vastly 
well. You have heard that L d Eochford x has left only 
£300 a year to his nephew and heir, the present Earl. 

Mrs. Chapone is coming to Miss Sharp e in this neigh- 
bourhood, and afterwards to Mrs. Smith, at whose house 
t'other day I heard Mr. Maly relate a curious anecdote that 
lately happen'd at Enfield. There lives a couple who have 
a son that is worth a plumb when he comes of age, but 
is now only 17. There came to visit his mother a gentle- 
woman, a friend of hers, aged 36. She had been in the 
house just a week, when she left it un beau matin with 
the pretty master, on a matrimonial scheme to Scotland. 
So his £100,000 will be in discreet hands. 

Adieu, dear madam. 

F. Boscawen. 



TJie Countess of Stamford to Mrs. Belany. 

Dunham, Oct. y e k 22nd } 1781. 

My dearest Friend, 

I blush when I look at the date of your kind 
letter, and should be still more ashamed of myself for 
letting it remain so long unanswer'd, if I had not re- 
quested my dear mother to assure you, how sensible I 

1 William Henry Nassau de Zulestein, Earl of Rochford, died 28th Sept., 
1781. His titles and estates descended to his nephew, William Henry Nassau, 
son of the Hon. Richard Savage Nassau. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 57 

was of your goodness to me ! I trust these lines will find 



y< 

you 
pros 



as Welles I most sincerely wish; happy I am sure 
i are, my dear Mrs. Delany, at present, in the pleasing 

^ apect of happiness that awaits our beloved Miss 
Tliynne. It is an event that affords me great satis- 
faction, as there is every reason to believe that Lord 
Avlesford's attachment to her proceeds from the fullest 
conviction of her merit. It makes me vastly happy to 
find our dear Lady Weymouth is so well satisfied in 
regard to it. 

1 am much obliged to you, my dear friend, for your 
kind wishes for my lord's recovery; I should be rejoiced 
if I could say he was quite well, but that is not the case ; 
however, I have very great dependance on the Bath 
raters, as it is the opinion of the faculty that they may 
K3 very efficacious, and it is the earnest wish of all his 
Hends that he should try them. We propose to be there 
ibout the middle of next month. My lord desires me to 
nake his best comp ts acceptable to you. All my young 
people beg me to assure you of their love. Permit me 
lo request you to present my duty to my mother; 
|md to do me the justice to believe me, with the most 
jincere regard, 

My dearest friend, 
Your ever obliged and most affectionate 
H. C. Stamford. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

Bulstrode, 22nd Oct., 1781. 

I am glad you are to go to Bernard at the time you 
ame. I think we may contrive very well to get Gr. M. A. 

PART II.— VOL. III. F 



58 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

to town from thence ; as I hope my health and strength 
will allow me to undertake so great an indulgence. In- 
deed I expect much comfort and assistance from her, as 
at times the weaknesses natural to my great age call for 
such attentions as will spare my too great exertions. On 
Saturday, as I was at my usual work, and the Dss D. of 
Portland just preparing for her breakfast, between 11 
and 12, her Majesty, Princess Royal, Princess Mary, and 
Princess Sophia, attended by Lady Courtown, walk'd 
into the drawing room, and caught me (not " napping " 
indeed), but in some confusion, which was soon dis- 
pers'd by the Queen's most gracious (I may say) kind 
manner. She would not suffer me to remove any of my 
litter, but said it was her wish to see me at my work j 
and by her command I sat down and shewed her my 
manner of working, which her great politeness made her 
seem pleased with. When the Dss of Portland came 
into the room, the Queen told her she came on purpose 
to wish her joy of the new alliance that was going to be 
in her family ; and spoke with such earnest pleasure, it 
was evidently warm and sincere, and not a meer compli- 
ment, and she said every thing that was kind and hand- 
some of all parties. She said the King was jealous of 
her congratulating the Dss of P. before he had an oppor- 
tunity ; but yesterday we were at the Queen's Lodge to 
enquire after the Queen. The Dss went to the Lodge by 
herself, and I went to Mrs. Walsingham, but I was soon 
sent for, and spent 3 hours there with more ease and 
pleasure than is generally imagined could be the case in 
royal society. The King was there, and spoke in the 
highest terms his approbation and his wishes for the 
happiness of all parties. 



OF MRS. DEL ANY. 59 

I don't know (oven to yon) how to express the parti- 
cular grace and favour I received from their Majesties, 
without (an appearance of) vanity that would ill become 
me. But this is quite entre nous. Lord Aylesford did 
not make his proposal till Monday 15 th , tho* so much 
has been said about "never man was more in love." Few 
i much reason: L d Aylcsford's attach- 
ment has been ever since Miss Thynne's appearance, but 
being really in love, he was timid of not being accepted. 
On Tuesday morning he acquainted the King with it, 
who told him he had chosen a prize indeed, and that it 
must be his own fault if he was not a happy man. 

Lord Aylesford has a universal good character, affec te to 
his family, dutyful to his mother, sensible, lively, and 
ingenious ; rank and fortune very high j so the prospect 
is fair, and you may send y 1 ' congrat™ on the occasion. 

M. D. 



TJie Earl of Guilford to Mrs. Delany. 

Waldersliarc,i Oct. 23rd, 1781. 

Madam, 

You complained of your eyes, and therefore I would 
not trouble you with a letter which required any answer. 
But as this does not : I hope you will forgive me for 
desiring you to present my compliments of congratula- 
tion to the Dutchess of Portland (and accept them your- 
self) upon the approaching marriage of Miss Thynne. 
Lord Aylesford's amiable character, and the universal 
esteem of all who knew him, exclusive of all other advan- 

1 Waldershare, between Deal and Dover, the residence of the Earls of 
xuilford. 

F 2 



60 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

tages, give the fairest prospect of happiness, I most sin- 
cerely rejoice that Lady Weymouth feels such good 
effects, from the great attention shown to the education 
of her daughters, and I heartily wish she may continue 
to reap the same advantages, till all her daughters are 
as well married. 

This cold, clear weather seems quite made for the 
ladies at Bulstrode, and I not only flatter myself that 
they are enjoying it, but reaping every possible benefit 
from it. I rejoice in the sunshine, but could very well 
dispense with some of the bracing qualities of it. I am, 
thank God, much better in health than when I troubled 
you last, but must not expect to be exempt from frequent 
disagreeable feelings. Believe me, dear madam, with 
great truth, 

Your most obedient and obliged 

Humble servant, 

Guilford. 

Lord Dartmouth was to set out last Monday for Sand- 
well, in good health and spirits, which I pray God to 
continue. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Colny Hatch, 25th Oct., 1781. 

My dearest Madam, 

In this obscure and vulgar corner we hear nothing 
that passes among the great, so that I remain'd perfectly 
ignorant of the happy event you are so good to announce 



OF MRS. DELANY. 01 

to mo till Mrs. Mostyn 1 made mo a visit, and sho was 
hardly gone before T sot pen to paper to pay my respect- 
full congratulations to her Gra 

I am quite delighted that this charming young lady 
has so fair a prospect o£ happiness, 2 no one can wonder at 
the affection she has inspired, and her merit will preserve 
that w ,!l her beauty excited. 

Everybody that knows Lord Aylesford loves him, of 
which I have heard many expressions, and there cannot be 
a o-reater prospect of domestick happiness. Most heartily 
indeed do I rejoice at this event. I shou'd not have 
been ignorant of it thus long if I had been at Ken Wood 3 
lately, but I have not seen my noble neighbour since I 
wrote to jo\i, or at least one day after, that I went to 
return thanks for the honour and great pleasure of my 
Lord's visit. 

Yesterday, I made one to Mrs. Chapone, at Miss 
Sharp's, and found her remarkably well. She inquired 
much after you. The awkward post won't let me say 
half what I feel. 

F. BOSCAWEN. ' 



1 Mary Catherine Boper, eldest daughter of Henry, 1st Lord Teynham, 
married, in 1773, Thomas, fourth son of Sir George Mostyn, Bart., of Talacre, 
Flintshire. 

s Louisa, eldest daughter of Thomas, 1st Marquis of Bath, and grand- 
daughter of the Duchess of Portland, married, Nov. 18, 1781, Heneage, 4th 
Earl of Aylesford. 

1 Ken or Caen Wood, Middlesex, the seat of the Earl of Mansfield. 



62 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Tlie Countess of Stamford to Mrs. Delany. 

Dunham, Oct, y e 29 th , 1781. 

How good yon are to me, my dear Mrs. Delany ! 
Most sincerely do I thank yon for yonr kind congratula- 
tions npon my dear Miss Thynne's intended marriage ; 
and, I trust yon will believe me, wlien I say, yon could 
not offer them with more pleasure than I have received 
them. The prospect appears a very pleasing one, as 
there is every reason to hope she will be happy. Lord 
Aylesford has been uncommonly fortunate in having 
more opportunities of making himself acquainted with 
her merit than is "generally the case ; but, at the same 
time, I think this is a circumstance that is always much 
to be wish'd, tho' it seldom or ever happens, that they 
have the smallest knowledge of each others dispositions 
before the knot is tied ! for it is certainly an excellent 
preface to future happiness. 

I rejoice at the account you give me of my dearest 
mother ; and not a little happy have you made me, my 
dearest friend, with what you say of yourself. 

Is it taking too great a liberty to say, / love the 
Queen ? but I reply do ; and respect and honour her cha- 
racter most exceedingly. Her behaviour to my mother 
quite charms and captivates me. I look upon it as a 
peculiar blessing to this nation that she was sent amongst 
us, and I wish all the ladies would endeavour to imitate 
her. Pardon this digression ; but I will own to you, that 
it is always a great gratification to me to talk of her 
Majesty. 

I have just heard from my friends at Ken Wood, they 
write in excellent spirits, and are very happy with the 



OF MRS. DEI. ANY. 63 

good account that Lord Mansfield had brought thorn of 
their valuable friends at Bulstrode. 

Permit me to request you to present our duty to my 
mother. The kindest com])" and love of this house ever 
attend upon you, and allow me to assure you of the sin- 
cere regard of my dearest Mrs. DelanyY 

Ever affectionate and grateful, 

H. C. Stamford. 



Frederick Montagu, Esq., to Mrs. Dclany. 

York, Nov. 1st. 1 

My dear Madam, From Mr. Mason's 

ecritoire ambulantc, in the 
shape of a screen, which Mr. M. says only wants Mrs. 
Delany's drawings and ornaments to make it perfect. 

If you had been at the Minster this morning, you 
would have heard an excellent sermon. None of your 
nettles, but such as any of your visitors, or any persons 
you visit might have heard and been edified. 

I ought, however, to have begun with desiring my 
most respectfull comp ts and congratulations to the 
Dutchess of Portland upon the marriage of Miss 
Thynne with Lord Aylesford. I have long been an 
admirer of the young lady : and I had a great partiality 
for Lord Aylesford, when he was in the House of Com- 
mons. He appeared to me remarkably yiromising. 

I am exceedingly flattered that great personages, great 
Kings and great Chief Justices should speak favourably of 



i The marriage of Lord Ajdesford to Miss Thynne proves the date of this 
letter to be 1781. 



64 LIFE AND COKKESPONDENCE 

me to you, as it shows that they think that you care about 
me, and that they imagime it a good method of paying 
their court to you ! I am returning in a day or two to 
Melton, from thence to Papplewick, and London, where 
one of my first visits shall be to M. B. 

Mr. Mason begs leave to join with me in compliments 
and congratulations to the Dutchess of Portland and 
yourself. 

Y r ! most faithfully, 

Fred. Montagu. 



Miss Hamilton to Mrs. Delany. 

Queen's House, 9th Nov., 1781. 

Miss Hamilton is commanded by the King to tell 
Mrs. Delany that his Majesty "sends his best compli- 
ments to her, and hopes to see her at Gerrard's Cross, on 
Tuesday morning next, to see the stag turned out." 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscaiven to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, 12th Nov., 81. 

I am heartily sorry to hear you have had an inflama- 
tion in your eyes, my dearest madam, but nothing can 
hinder you from expressing kindness to your friends, and 
if it was prescribe to you to bind up y r eyes, I believe 
you wou'd contrive to knot them some quipos of kind 
remembrance ! If eyes were to be purchas'd, what presents 
you wou'd receive ! how many pair ? you wou'd soon 
own more than a peacock, or even that Argus himself; 
for we certainly do love to see your handwriting, which 
I'm sure one ought not to do, if it has cost you the least 



OF MR8. DELANY. 65 

degree of pain, Spin on therefore, my dear madam, and 
remember me sometimes while yon turn your wheel, but 

don't toll me so (in writing). 

I have been here since Friday last, but am only en- 

camp'd, and eat with the Duchess of Beaufort, who stays 
a few d;ivs longer before she goes to Badminton for the 
winter. She is certainly much better for her visit to the 
sea. Mrs. Leveson does not leave Bill Hill this fortnight 
yet. I hope my lady will not long be left behind quite 
alone, w ch cannot be good for her. 

I have seen Lady Bute in perfect health. Last night 
I met Lady Maccartney at Mrs. Dunbar's ; also Mrs. 
Montagu, who is very busy furnishing her new house :* 
part of her family is remov'd into it. 

I shall return, in a few days, to my cottage, just to 
plant a few trees for yon to sit under, my dearest madam, 

when y r foe, Apollo, is too fierce. But the bell 

tingles, and I must finish this black scrawl. I expect my 
son from Cornwall, where he has been visiting ; his 
uncle 1 remains at Bath, plus mort que vif. Lady F. has 
chang'd her tone, and professes much respect and kindness 
to her lord, but thinks he had better not attempt coming 
to London. Adieu, my dearest madam ; I know you 
will express for me to the Duchess every thing I wish to 
say to her Grace, and believe me always 

Your most faithfull F. B. 



1 Mrs. Montagu (born Robinson) built Montagu House, at the north-west 
angle of Portman Square, now (L861) the residence of Lord Piokeby. It was 
on the lawn in front of this house that she assembled annually the chimney- 
sweepers of London on the 1st May. 

8 Hugh, 2nd Viscount Falmouth, married, 173G, Hannah Catherine Maria, 
iter of Thomas Smith, Esq., and widow of Richard Russell, Esq. Tie 
died Feb. 4, 1782, and was succeeded in his title, (fee, by Mrs. Boscawen's last 
surviving son, George Evelyn Boscawen. 






66 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

I have not heard any news, but that the B p of Durham 
is to marry Miss Boughton, 1 w ch , if it be true, you pro- 
bably know. 



Miss Hamilton to Mrs. Belany. 

Windsor, Wednesday morning. 
(Nov. 14th, 1781.) 

Her Majesty ordered me to address you, my dear 
madam, as srie imagined the Duchess Dowager of Port- 
land might not be out of her chamber when this wou'd 
arrive at Bulstrode, and she wished to prevent her Grace 
giving any orders for her carriage this morn 9 to bring her 
to Windsor, as Lady Courtown informed the Queen the 
Duchess intended coming. The King wishes so much to 
have the pleasure of seeing her Grace and his " dear Mrs. 
Delany" (his own expression, I assure you) that he de- 
sires you will postpone coming till Thursday afternoon, 
when their Majesties hope to see you both at eight 
o'clock. They desire to know how the Duchess bore her 
early rising, and you the fatigue of going out. I have 
not time to tell you all the fine things said of you both, 
but my heart assented warmly. 

Most tenderly and affectionately yours, 

M RY Hamilton. 

The Queen wishes to have the proper title of y r Abridg- 
ment of the History' of England — the booh she saw yester- 
day w th y e D'ss maiden name ivrote in it. 

1 The Hon. John Egerton, Bishop of Lichfield, was translated to the 
Bishopric of Durham in 1771. His first wife was Lady Anna Sophia, daughter 
and coheiress of Henry Grey, Duke of Kent, by whom he had a son, who 
succeeded, in 1803, to the Earldom of Bridgewater. The Bishop married, 
secondly, March 29th, 1782, Miss Bouchier. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 87 

Mt% Pclany to Miss Hamilton. 

Bulstrode, Wednesday, Nov. 14th, 1781, 

My deab Madam, 

I enclose the title of the book, as tbc Queen com- 
manded, but must beg you transcribe it, as my dim eyes 
will not suffer me to write it better. 

It is impossible for me to express the sense I have of 
the honours conferr'd on me by their Majesties; but you 
know well how to do justice to my profound respect and 
gratitude in a better manner than I can do it myself. I 
am not the least fatigued (tho' not quite so young as 
when I scampered after the hounds in pink lutestring) 
by the part I bore in the royal chase, but delighted with 
the recollection of so pleasant a scene. 

The Duchess of Portland, who is just awake and 
perfectly well, desires her best compliments to you, and 
that you will present her humble duty to the King and 
Queen, and will obey their Majesties' most pleasing 
commands to-morrow, at the appointed hour, attended 
by my dear Miss Hamilton's 

Most affectionate and most obliged 

Humble servant, 

M. Delany. 

In allusion to the " scamper after the hounds " mentioned 
by Mrs. Delany, there is the following note in Miss Hamilton's 
handwriting — 

" Alluding to an anecdote which Mrs. Delany used to relate 
with great humour. — When Mrs. Delany was very young, and 
lived with her parents in Gloucestershire, 1 she had an invitation 
to dine at a gentleman's house in the neighbourhood, which her 



IHickland. 



(58 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

mother allowed her to accept. As there was to be company, 
she was very smartly dressed, and as the road was too bad for a 
carriage, she was mounted on a pillion behind a steady old 
domestic. On their way they met a pack of hounds ; Miss 
Granville was enchanted, the mettle of the horse was roused, and 
old John was easily prevailed on to join the chase. The con- 
sequence was r b the lutestring slip was rent in many places, the 
smart shoes lost, and the hat and streamers blown over the hills 
and far away. 

" But alas ! after joy came sorrow, she kept the dinner waiting, 
and dreaded returning home in her tattered garments; Mrs. 
Granville reproached her severely, and this unfortunate chase 
cost many penitential tears." 

The Editor remembers her mother's relating this anecdote, 
but she said it was not a whole hat that Mrs. Delany wore, but 
merely a hat brim to shade the sun from her eyes, as her hair was 
of course dressed for the party ; and in those days, when dinner 
visits were frequently made on horseback, hat " brims " were often 
put on in fine weather without any crown to them. It was the 
picture Mrs. Delany drew of herself in her pink lutestring petti- 
coat, following the hounds on a pillion, with her " brim' flying in 
the air and her feet without shoes, which had entertained the 
King and Queen so much. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Port, of Ham. 

Bulstrode, Nov. 18th, 1781. 

My dear Mary, 

I am sorry I cannot write to you with my own 
hand, but I must spare my eyes to write to your mama ; 
but Eea is always ready to write to you, and she will tell 
you my exploits ; so here begins the journal. 

(Dictated, in Mrs. Rea's handwriting.) 

"On Wednesday morning, a quarter before ten, the 



OF MRS. DELANY. M 

Duchess of Portland stept into her chaise and wee went 
toGarard Cross, about the middle of the Common, by the 

appointment and command of the King, who came about 
a quarter ol' an hour after with the Prince of Wales and a 
large retinue. His .Majesty came up immediately to the 
Duchess of Portland oarage, most gracious and delighted 

to Bee the Duchess out so early; the Queen was tlicar 
with the two eldest princesses, and Lady Courtown in a 
post coach and four ; the King came with a message 
from the Queen to the Duchess of Portland to say that 
she would see her safe back to Bulstrode, to brake fast 
with her Grace. The Duke of Cumberland was thear; 
a grate many carages, and many of our acquaintance, 
amangst them Lady Mary Forbes and her famely, who 
took three rooms at the Bull Inn, and brakefasted thirty 
people ; the King himself ordered the spot ware the 
Dss of Portland's chaise should stand to see the stag 
turned out ; it was brought in a cart to that place at the 
King's command the stag was set at liberty, and the 
poor, trembling creature bounded over the plain in hopes 
of escaping from his persuers, but the dogs and the 
hunters were soon after him, and all out of sight. The 
Duchess of Portland returned home in order to be ready 
to receive the Queen, who immediately followed, before 
wee could pull of our cloaks ! We receiv'd her Majesty 
and the Princesses on the steps at the door, but she is so 
gracious that she makes every thing perfectly easy. 
Wee got home a quarter before eleven, and the Queen 
staid till two. In her return back to Windsor she met 
the chase, and was at the taking of the stag j but they 
would not let the dogs kill him. 

" On Wednesday the Duchess intended to go to return 



70 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

the Queen thanks for the honour she had done her ; wee 
were to set out early ; Rea got up in her sleep, and I 
dress'd my head for the day before brakefast, when a 
letter came from Miss Hamilton from the Queen's Lodge 
to me with a message from the King to desire wee would 
not com till Thurday evenin eight o'clock, as he could 
not be at home till then. Accordingly wee went, were 
there at the appointed houre; the King and Queen 
and the Princesses received us in the drawing-room, to 
which we went thro' the concert-room ; Princess Mary 
took me by the left hand, Princess Sophia and the dear 
little Prince Octavius by the right hand, and led me 
after the Dss of Portland into the drawing-room ; the 
King nodded and smiled upon my little conductors, and 
bid them lead me up to the Queen, who stood in the 
middle of the room. When we were all seated (for the 
Queen is so gracious she always makes me sit down) 
the Dss of Portland sat next to the Queen, I sat next to 
the Princess Royal; on the other side of me was a 
chair, and his Majesty did me the honour to sit by me ; 
he went backwards and forwards between that and the 
musick room, and he was so good as to have a good deal 
of conversation with me, particularly about Handel's 
musick, and ordered those peaces to be play'd which he 
found I had a preference for. In the course of the 
evening the Queen chang'd places with Princess Royal, 
saying, graciously, she c must have a little conversation 
with Mrs. Delany,' which lasted about half an hour; 
she then got up, it being half an hour after ten, and said 
she was affraid she should keep the Dss of Portland too 
late, and made her curtsey, and wee withdrew. There 
was nobody there but the attendants and Lord and 



OF MRS. DELANY. 71 

Lady Courtown, and nothing could be more agree- 
able. Wee came home very well lighted by our lanterns 
and the northern lights; set down and eat supper at 
twelve o'clock, and slept very well after it. I own I 
expected to be more fatigued than I was. I thank God 
the Dss of Portland got no cold, and wee are both very 
wen." 

Mrs. Delany then continues with her own hand — 

Now my secretary lias done her part 1 must add 2 or 
3 lines to my dear child. The Princess Boyal did me 
the honour to ask after you in a very obliging manner ; 
" if you came to town this winter ?" " what books you 
read ?" I said I thought you loved reading better than 
work, but you work'd when your other lessons were 
over ; her Royal Highness asked me " what books you 
liked?" I said you seem'd to like history and travels as 
far as you cou'd yet understand them, and the Spectators 
and French stories adapted to your age ; that your mama 
was very attentive to you, but her indulgence to me 
made her spare you to me, tho' I was afraid I shou'd not 
be able to attend to you as much as she did. The Prin- 
cess, (who is extreamly polite,) made me some obliging 
complim t8 , and added, she "hoped I should be able to 
attend to you for 20 years to come ;" Princess Elizabeth, 
who stood near me, said, " I hope so too, and am sure 
so docs the King and Queen." I wou'd not have you 
think, (tho' I am very sensible of the honour's done me,) 
I tell you this out of vanity, for I feel my own small 
consequence, but I tell you to show you how such man- 
ners become the highest rank, and tho' so far above us, 
they are not in these particulars unsuited to our imitation ; 



72 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

for civility, kindness, and benevolence, (suitable to the 
different ranks of life,) are in every body's power, from 
the palace to the cottage, and I natter myself that the 
seed I wish to sow will not be on barren ground ; and 
I have so good an opinion of y r disposition that I flatter 
myself you will make use of every advantage laid before 
you, which will indeed be a great happiness to, my dear 
child, y r 

Ever affectionate aunt, 

M. Delany. 



To this letter was appended the following verses, written by 
Mrs. Delany (then nearly 82 years of age), for the amusement of 
her beloved great-niece and adopted child. 

13th Nov., 1781. 

The day was clear, the sky serene, 
The finest morn that e'er was seen ; 
All on the green of Gerard's Cross, 
With horn and hound, and royal horse, 
With ladies fair and gallants gay, 
To Bulstrode Castel took their way. 

There dwells a noble peerless dame, 

Of fair renown and spotless faim, 

Who never sees the golden sun 

Till the meridian is begun. 

But mark the power of kingly grace ! 

When summon'd to partake the chase ! 

An invitation to attend 

At ten — (and bring her ancient friend ;) 

Rouzed by that call, with joy elate, 

She met the monarch at the gate. 

The gracious monarch, pleased to see, 

The noble dame's alacrity, 

With courteous smiles receives her grace, 

Then gave his orders for the chase. 

The trembling stag bounds o'er the plain, 

The sportsmen s^out with might and main, 

The destin'd victim they pursue 

Till one and all were out of view ! — 



OF MRS. DELANY. 73 

Through Bulstrode Park we took our way 

Attending on our Queen, 
Whoso Royal presenoe orown'd the day 

And closed the joyous scone ! 

Written by an antient Hard, in an antient forest of this anticnt place, time 
out of mind. 

Bulstrode Chase, 1761. 



Mrs. Del any to Miss Port, of Ham. 

Bulstrode, Dec. 2nd, 1781. 

My dear Mary, 

My eyes not being strong enough to write to 
your dear mama, as I used to do, I must put on Rea 
(as my spectacles) to tell you that your dear Miss 
Thynne is now Countess of Aylesford. 1 She was married 
last Monday, the 26 th November, at Longleate, and by 
this time I believe is at Packinton, where the Dow r Lady 
Aylesford 2 went to meet them. Yesterday the Queen, 
with the Princess Eoyal, Princess Augusta, and Lady 
Courtown came to wish the Dss of Portland joy; the* 
Queen caught me at my spining wheel, and was so gra- 
cious as to take a lesson from me, and has desired the 
Dss of Portland to get her just such a wheel ; I am to 
set it in order and have the honour of giving her Ma- 
jesty another lesson. The Dss of Portland is gone this 
morning to pay her respects to the Queen at Windsor 



1 In a letter, to Mrs. Frances Hamilton, 9th Dec, Mrs. Delany says Miss 
Thynne " was as amiable as she was beautiful." 

2 " Dowager Lady Aylesford." — Charlotte, daughter of Charles, 6th Duke of 
Somerset, and widow of Heneage, 3rd Earl of Aylesford, who died 9th May, 
1777. Packington, in the county of Warwick, came into the family through 
the marriage of Heneage, 2nd Earl, with Mary, daughter and heir of Sir 
Clement Fisher, of Packington, Dart.. 

PART II. — VOL. III. G 



* 



74 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Lodge ; it was a foggy morning, so she w d not let me go 
with her. This week we expect Mr. Yeats and Mr. and 
Mrs. Cole to spend some days, and I suppose the week 
after next week I shall remove to London, which I shall 
very much regret, were it not for the pleasure of seeing 
some kind friends there that are impatient for my com- 
ing, especially your unckle Bernard. Did you read a 
very moving story in the Publick Advertiser of a young 
distracted woman near Bristol ? Nobody has yet found 
out who she is, tho' great inquiries are making to find 
out in order to restore her to her friends. Eea wrote to 
her sister about it, who has confirmed the account. 

Monday, 3rd. 

The Dss of Portland returned from her royal visit 
soon after four, and brought home the account of the 
death of Dr. Barnard, 1 Provot of Eton. He will be a 
great loss to all his friends, especially his son, who is 
just gone to Cambridge, a very promising youth. Lord 
Stamford is better for the Bath. I am sure you were very 
happy with Lady Clanbrazel's letter, and that every kind- 
ness you receive from your friends will make you atten- 
tive and diligent in all your improvements, that you 
may deserve the continuence of their favour. Mr. Light- 
foot desires his best compt 8 , and believe me ever your 
most affection 16 

M. Delany. 



1 The Rev. Edward Barnard, D.D., Provost of Eton College, Canon of 
Windsor, and one of his Majesty's Chaplains, died of an apoplexy, Dec. 2nd, 
1781. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 

The Dowager Countess Oower to Mrs. Dektny. 

Bill Hill, 7th Dec. 

I saw in y e newspaper L . . d Aylcsford was maried T 
at Long Leal ; have heard all parties were infinitely 
pleas'd w' h this aliance, w rh must give y° D 8 of Portland 
great satisfaction, consequently d r M rs Delany, and I 
desire they'll bath aceept of my very sincere congratu- 
lations ; pleasing news is a feast I have not, till now, 
tasted of a long while. 

M r and M re Leveson, &c, left me for London last 
Wednesday. I shall follow 'em after Xmas ; have not 
yet fix'd my day ; y e D s and you I conclude will have y° 
start of me, and I y e pleasure to find you both perfectly 
well, and all belonging to you. 

M r Boscawen made a vissit here to his sister for a 
few days in his way to y e D. of Beaufort, who is in Ox- 
fordshire ; I think him improv'd in his mailer ; his face 
resembles his mother's very much ; y° title seems to be 
drawing near him, and I hope somthing more valuable 
w th it. He, L . . d ffalmouth, 2 is at Bath, and his lady 3 not 
w th him, but says she intends to put all her domesticks 
in mourning and show all respect to his memory. 
'Twoud be comical if she shou'd die before him ! 

I was surpriz'd lately by a letter from L . .y M. fforbes, 4 

1 Heneage, 4th Karl of Aylcsford, married, Nov. 18, 1781, the Lady Louisa 
Thymic, daughter of Thomas, 1st Marquis of Bath, and grand-daughter of 
Margaret, Duchess of Portland. 

2 Hugh Boscawen, 2nd Viscount Falmouth, died Feb. 4, 1782, and was 
■ucceeded in that title by his nephew, Evelyn Boscawen, 3rd Viscount. 

3 Hannah, daughter of Thomas Smith, Esq., and widow of Richard Russell, 
Esq., married, May '), IT-')'!, Hugh, 2nd Viscount Falmouth. 

4 Mary, fourth daughter of William Capel, 3rd Karl of Essex, and wife of 
;he Hon John Forljes, Admiral of the Fleet, second son of George, 3rd Earl of 

iranaid. 

G 2 



76 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

and y e place from whence it was dated. I thought y e 
D s of P. had y e mortification to loose 'em out of her 
neighbourhood ; for I was told y e hurry of moving into 
Kent had made her ill. I have not yet been able to 
decypher her letter. 

All my best wishes wait on Bulstrode. 



Copy of Queen Charlotte's letter to Mrs. Delany, inclosed in a 
very beautiful pocket-book, fitted up with gold instruments, and 
given by Her Majesty to Mrs. Delany before she left Bulstrode 
to return to her own house in London for the winter. 

Without appearing imprudent towards Mrs. Delany 
and indiscreet to her friends, (who wish to preserve her, 
as her excellent qualities well deserve,) I cannot have the 
pleasure of enjoying her company this winter, which our 
amiable friend the Duchess Dowager of Portland has so 
frequently and politely indulged me with during the 
summer. I must therefore desire that Mrs. Delany will 
wear this little pocket-book, in order to remember, at 
times when no dearer persons are present, a very sincere 
well-wisher, friend, and affectionate Queen. 

Charlotte- 

Queen's Lodge, 
Windsor, 
the 15th December, 1781. 



0¥ MRS. DELANY. 77 



The lion. Mrs, Botoawen to Bin. DeUvny. 

Audley Street^ y° 19*>> Dec, 1781. 

To hear of you by any hand, my dearest madam, is a 
sincere pleasure to me, tho' to see your own is my parti- 
cular delight. 

So — Mr. Fox muster'd only 46 last night, and that was 
one too many ; the old rebel number of 45 wou'd have 
been the proper one for him I think ! The House sat 
late. Mr. T. Pitt spoke and gave advice to Ministers 
(as a member has just been telling me). What is become 
of the dear peace which has been announe'd to us ? If it 
were left to you and I, methinks we shou'd soon find it, 
and we know the Duchess wou'd readily give us her 
assistance ; as I do not think her Grace has chang'd her 
opinions since she was willing to give up the Isle of 
Jersey un beau soir, and the next morning found the 
French had it in possession. 1 I imagine the present 
pierre d'achoppement is the well- defended Gibraltar 2 , but 
even this I suspect her Grace (asking pardon of the brave 
Elliot) wou'd willingly resign rather than have no peace. 
Mais revenons a nos moutons. Lady Bute is in very 
good health, as I had the pleasure to see yesterday, and 
intends to write to you ; her lady p will therefore inform 
you that Lady Carlow 3 is safe arriv'd in London, tho' 
she had some long walks on the mountains of Wales, 



1 Jersey was surprised and seized by the French in 1781. 

* " Well-defended Gibraltar." This fortress was besieged by the Due de 
Crillon with 40,000 French and Spanish soldiers, and defended by the British 
Governor, Elliot, from July, 1771), to Feb., 17S.J, when the uege was raised. 

3 Caroline, fifth daughter of John Stuart, 3rd Earl of Bute, married John 
Dawson, 2nd Viscount Carlow and 1st Earl of Fortarlington. 



78 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

tliat she cou'd willingly have excus'd. Lady Mansfield 
and Miss Murrays I saw also this week, all well and 
going to keep holidays at Ken Wood as usual. Miss 
Murray, who came home before I left my lady, brought 
in for news that Lady Pembroke l did not accept the bed- 
chamber on account of her ill state of health, but she 
seem'd to doubt her intelligence. Her Maj ty does not 
come to the drawing-room just now, being lame (with 
chilblains I think). My daughter Leveson and my son 
were there to-day, it lasted longer than the daylight. 

Mrs. Yesey is landed we know, but she sticks some- 
where, and don't arrive. Mrs. Montague is in perfect 
health and spirits in her Chateau Portman. Lady 
Juliana Penn sets out for Paris in about ten days to see 
if Mr. Laurens 2 will do her any sort of justice. Mrs. 
"Walsingham told me she had seen a very handsome 
letter he had wrote to her lady p , but alas, the tender 
mercies of the wicked are cruel. I visited Mrs. Chapone 
the other morning ; she enquir'd much after you, dear 
madam. The Burrows family are unwell and unhappy. 
Miss More appeared to me for a minute. 



The Eev. IV. Gilpin to Mrs. Delany. 

Vicar's Hill, Jan. 14th, 1782. 

Dear Madam, 

It is a very great pleasure to me that my books 
furnish any amusement to my Lady Duchess, and you ; 

1 Elizabeth, second daughter of Charles Spencer, 2nd Duke of Marlborough, 
and wife of Henry Herbert, 10th Earl of Pembroke and 7th of Montgomery. 

2 The Hon. Henry Laurens, late President of the American Congress. He 
was taken prisoner by Captain Keppel in 1780, during the American war, 
brought to London and committed to the Tower in 1780. Lady Juliana Penn 
was then probably interested in the Penn property in Pennsylvania. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 79 

I send therefore with this the second volume, and beg, 
madam, you will show them to Lord Bute, if you think 
them worth his perusal. It will be a great honour to 
thorn if they meet tin 4 approbation of so esteemed a judge 

of arts. Mr. Walpole has honoured them much more than 
1 could have expected. Mr. Mason, I suppose, will not 
leave London till April or May, and if he has them so 
as to carry them with him into Yorkshire it is enough. 
In the meantime I beg they may be at the disposal of 
my Lady Duchess and you, and hope they will do their 
best to entertain, on any visit on which you may please 
to send them. I thought myself much obliged to Mr. 
Lightfoot for his remarks ; they will be of great use to 
me when the volume gets again into my hands. I 
trouble you with the delivering of my thanks. If he 
would be so good as look over the 2 nd volume it would 
give me much pleasure, tho' it is not so much in his 
way as the first ; yet I am sure it would receive much 
from him. I have not a copy by me of either volume, 
except in scraps and detached parts j perhaps I may 
desire Mr. Blamire to get them transcribed, as he did the 
other ; if I do it will only detain them a few days. You 
are very good and kind, madam, in taking notice of my 
niece ; I was not personally much acquainted w T ith her 
till the last autumn, which she spent with me ; I own 
I was much pleased with her for her love of plants and 
flowers ; she is quite an enthusiast. 

I beg, madam, you will present my most respectful 
comp* to my Lady Duchess ; and believe me to be, with 
groat respect and gratitude, 

Your much obliged 

And most obedient, humble scrv 1 , 

Will. Gilpin. 



80 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



It is worthy of notice that Mr. Gilpin did not consider it 
necessary to apologize for his niece's being an embroidress by 
profession, or pretend that she was anything else. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

Jan. 18th, 1782. 

My heart is too much interested in this important 
day 1 not to endeavour to express some part of its senti- 
ments, which overflow for the health and happiness of 
her Majesty, and most earnestly pray our great and 
amiable Queen may long be bless'd as she blesses all 
those who have the felicity of belonging to her. I do 
indeed, my dear Miss Hamilton, most sincerely congratu- 
late you on the return of this day. I feel the cordial, 
and forget my infirmities ; or cou'd not have attempted 
writing so many lines, one of which I cannot read. 
Adieu. 

Indorsed by Miss Hamilton, " From dear Mrs. Delany" 



The following note was indorsed by Miss Hamilton, " Copy of 
a note to me from dear Mrs. Delany. The original I sent with 
(illegible) to P ss Mary." 

Monday, 9 o'clock, Jan. 21st, 1782. 

" I keep the spinning-wheel till I can give you a lesson 
on it before it arrives at its highest honour. 



i Jan. 18th was the birthday of Qneen Charlotte. 



OF MRS. DELANY 81 

"Were H sensible of its station how enviable would 
it be ! — happy wheel ! 

"I am well to-day, and I hope those I so much love 
and honour are so, — perfectly so." 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

I trust I shall see my dear Miss Hamilton to-morrow 
evening, when I can say more than I can see to write. 



FROM MRS. DELANY TO THE QUEEN, WITH A SPINNING-WHEEL. 

Jan. 26th, 1782. 

Go, happy wheel ! amuse her leisure hour, 

Whose grace and affability refin'd 
Add lustre to her dignity and power, 

And fill with love and awe the grateful mind. 



The Rev. W. Gilpin to Mrs. Delany. 

Vicar's Hill, March 4th, 1782. 

Dear Madam, 

I have this moment received your kind note, with 
Mr. Lightfoot's letter, which I shall take an early op- 
portunity to acknowledge. At present I have just time to 
say how sorry I am to hear that your age has felt any 
iDtlier uneasiness than the inflamation in your eyes. This 
last severe weather, after so warm a winter, has been felt 
jy younger constitutions than yours, but the returning 
spring I hope, if it please God, will set us all to rights. 
The third and last part of my Observations on Forest 



82 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Scenery (containing an account and description of New- 
Forest in Hampshire) is now, I believe, in Mr. Blamire' s 
hands, to whom I sent it to be sewed up together : from 
Mr. Blamire, it was to return to me. After I had put 
in a few drawings, and some other things, I intended to 
send it to two or three gentlemen who do me the honour 
of being my critics ; and after they had pruned away a 
few of its excrescences, (many of which however in reli- 
ance on them I leave at hazard,) I intended it should 
take the first opportunity to pay its respects to you ; 
but as you express in your note a desire to see it, and 
as nothing can give me more pleasure than to gratify 
any desire of yours that is in my power, if you will re- 
ceive it with all its crudities and imperfections un- 
corrected on its head, I will enclose a note at the bottom 
of this to Mr. Blamire, which will produce it. If I can 
suppose the Duchess of Portland can be amused with it, 
a sight of it is much at her Grace's service, but it is not 
fit to pay visits anywhere else but Avhere its author has 
so often met with indulgence. Mr. Mason often tells 
me I put too much faith in critics ; but I know it is 
otherwise, and I can tell him in return I do not value 
him as a critic because he is too easily pleased. 

I cannot enough, dear madam, express my obligations 
to you for your kindness to my niece. I beg my most 
respectful compliments to my Lady Duchess, and am 
with the sincerest respect and esteem, 

Your most obliged and 
most obedient s*, 

W. Gk 



OF MRS. DEL ANY. 83 

Mn, Delany to Miss Hamilton, 

27th April, 1782. 

You cannot doubt, my dear Miss Hamilton, with how 
much pleasure 1 receiv'd your note this morning; I feel 
much more than I can possibly express the high honour 
of their Majesties' commands; but as there must be 
some allay to our host joys the sense of my increas'd 
infirmities is mine on this occasion. 

I have sent your note to Whitehall, tho' her Grace's 
hour of opening her eyes has not come ; as soon as it 
is, I am sure she will speak for herself; my impatience 
will not let me delay a moment acknowledging to you, 
dear madam, how sensible I am of their Majesties' conde- 
scention to me, and how much I am y r most obliged and 
affectionate 

M. Delany. 



TJie Eev. W. Gilpin to Mrs. Delany. 

Vicar's Hill, April 30th, 1782. 

I wish, dear madam, I had not so very great a respect 
for you, that I might give a little vent to my wrath j as 
the case now stands I can only say, in plaintive voice, 
How could you, madam, send my papers into so many 
hands, when I told you in how crude a state they were, 
and that I only meant to put them into your hands 
alone, unless my Lady Duchess chose to look into them ; 
not that I had the least objection to the putting them 
into any hands you thought proper, only not at this 
time. Mr. Lightfoot, indeed, I consider as one of my 
critic*, and he had a right to see them in any state ; but 



84 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

when Lord Dartmouth returns them you will be so good, 
madam, as send them to Mr. Blamire. 

I have heard nothing from Mr. Mason these four 
months ; but I suppose he is in town, and that you 
have been so good as give him the two first books of my 
Forest Scenery ; if he should chose also to look into the 
third before it goes to Mr. Blamire it is certainly at his 
service. 

What shall I now say to you, dear madam, for your 
obliging kindness to my niece? I am sure that if I 
had thought my recommendation of her to you would 
have engaged you farther than I desired, I should never 
have mentioned her ; but it requires some time to know 
the world, and the various characters of which it is com- 
posed; if you find some persons who come short of 
expectations, you find others who go beyond them. 

I hope, madam, you do not feel the effects of the 
inclement season ; I, who often face its keenest blasts, 
am used to buffet it. I never knew, however, so severe a 
spring ; I am in some degree qualified to say so, as I 
have kept a sort of register of the weather for these last 
tiventy years. 

I beg, madam, you will present my very respectful 
compliments to my Lady Duchess. I am not unmindful 
of what you mention about Salisbury Plain : I have 
never yet got the volume into my hands ; but as soon 
as ever I do, and I suppose I shall soon, I will transmit 
the passage. 

I beg, madam, you will not think of answering this 
letter in any shape ; I have just read it over, and I hope 
I have said nothing that can in the least hurt you with 
regard to shewing my third book ; indeed, it gave me 



OF MRS. DELANY. 85 

no manner of uneasiness, and if I thought it could pos- 
sibly give you any I would burn my letter and write it 
over again. 

Believe me, dear madam, with unfeigned respect and 
esteem, 

Your much obliged 

And most obedient, humble seiV, 

Will. Gilpin. 



Mrs. Dektny to Miss Hamilton. 

Wednesday morning, May 1st, 1782. 

Knowing my dear Miss Hamilton's partiality to 
antiquated dames, I take the liberty of presenting to 
you the celebrated Countess of Winchelsea ;* her good 
sense and delicate sentiments will I am sure recommend 
her to your favour. 

How was I gratified last Saturday evening ! how 
greatly entertained and how highly honoured ! indeed, 
being once more in the presence of their Majesties was a 
real happiness. I hope soon to see you, relying on your 
constant indulgence to, 
My dear madam, 

Your most affec 1 and most obliged, 
Humble servant 

M. Delany. 



1 Ann, daughter of Sir William Kingsmill, Maid of Honour to Mary of 
Modena, when Duchess of York, and wife of Heneage, 4th Earl of Winchelsea. 
She published, in 1713, " Miscellaneous Poems on several occasions, written 
by a Lady." She died, Aug. 5th, 1720. 



86 



LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

May 11th, 1782. Saturday. 

It is very mortifying to me that I cannot be an 
assistant to Mrs. Gold worthy's charitable undertaking ; 
but the truth is I am engaged in favour of a poor 
clergyman, which has at least for some time exhausted 
the little interest I can pretend to. 

I hope to be so happy as to see you some part of this 
evening; I am much better, and see a few choice 
friends. 

Ever yours, affectionately, 

M. D ; 

My young people (root and branch) are charmed with 
Miss Hamilton. At this time I believe in the whispering 
gallery, St. Paul's ! 



TJie Rev. W. Gilpin to Mrs. Delany, 

Vicar's Hill, May 13th, 1782. 

Madam, 

Some people are never to be satisfied ; you shewed 
my papers to a friend or two — I flew into a violent 
rage — you immediately returned them — now I vibrate 
as far into a contrary passion. I am mortified to the 
last degree, lest, in my rage, I should have said some- 
thing improper, and have offended you ? My requisition 
was not made above three posts ago, and by that very 
post I receive a note from Mr. Blamire, informing me 
that you have sent him the papers. Sure, madam, you 



OF MRS. DKI.AXV. 87 

would not have born in such a prodigious hurry unless 
you had been offended ? 

But even, if you wore offended, I think on hearing 
what a disaster has just befallen me you Avill turn your 
anger into pity. Yesterday I* look a walk on some 
parish business into Worley-wood, a favourite spot, 
which perhaps you remember my mentioning; there I 
heard t hat 860 oi' its noblest oaks are now under sentence 
of death ; the ruffians had begun their bloody work when 
I was there; I could hear them as I walked through 
the wood, whistling and singing to the sound of their 
hatchets. My heart sank within me; and I have not yet 
recovered from my first shock. I remember a discrete 
citizen when I had to do with young folks, who, taking 
his son to task for spending his half-crown in a manner 
of which he could give but a lame account, — " My dear 
boy," said he, " consider — what is money good for but 
for keeping." I own I am secretly inclined to apply 
to oaks this sage philosopher's maxim with regard 
to money. I beg my most respectful compliments to 
my Lady Duchess ; and hoping, madam, that every 
thing is now set to rights, venture to subscribe myself, 
once more, 

Your very respectful 

And most obedient, humble servant, 

Will. Gilpin. 

How would the " heart " of Gilpin " sinJc " if he had lived to 
these days, when not a spray is left upon a hedge to shelter man 
or beast from winter blast or summer heat, when hollies are cut 
for dead hedges, and every herb and wild-flower is scraped from 
the road-side ! 



88 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

St. James's Place. 
Saturday, 18th May, 1782. 

Melancholy — but why should I say so? for surely 
I have reason to be thankful! Your precious child 
brought and read me your note ! The kind writer could 
not be more affected by the most tender sensations of 
love and gratitude than her to whom the note was 
addressed ! The subject was too tender to dwell upon. 
I eat my breakfast, which even the Sprinkler 1 could not 
give a relish too. We followed your stages j said, " Alas J" 
when it clouded and rained ; but revived when the sun 
shone. At this moment suppose you beyond Hounslow. 
Yours and your most dear and excellent bro rs mutual 
satisfaction on meeting make me almost glad my joys are 
transferred. I every moment expect L y Jerningham and 
her ami ; I shall send Mary Anne to Miss Keene ; 2 her 
tears are hardly dried up, for which I love her the more. 

Mr. Bryant just called to say he will, dine here on 
Sunday next, and has told me the good news — that 
Adm 1 Eodney has taken from the French three 74 ships ; 
one 64 and two frigates ; and the French fleet defeated? 
Our Gover rs have sent out somebody, whose name I 
don't remember, to supersede this man ! I fancy they 
will repent of their precipitation after hearing how 
worthy S r Gr. Eod y is of better treatment. 



1 " The Sprinkler" probably a gift of Mrs. Port's. 

2 Miss Keene, niece of the Earl of Dartmouth. 

3 Admiral Sir George Bridges Rodney, Bart., gained a complete victory over 
the French fleet, in the West Indies, on the 9th and 12th of April, 1782, 
when the Count de Grasse (who commanded) was taken prisoner. 



OF MRS. DELANY, S9 

My dear, sweei little Louisa, I thank you for all y 
nice curtseys and prittle-prattle, and for Leading me up 
and down Btaira so carefully; but "Sissy" performs 
your office very well ; Bends her besl love, and we will 
talk of you to the Dutchess la Portland when she comes 
in the eveniner. 

Morning visitors: L y Jerningham and Mr. Nusols. 
A card to me from Mrs. YYals m for next Friday; one 
from Miss B03 le to .Mary Ann, to invite her that day to 
a ball. A tin ease with 7 fish, sent by Mr. Bercsford 
from Nottingham, are dispatched to Whitehall. 



TJte Dowager Countess Cover to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill, 19th May, 82. 

Last post brought me M" Port's letter, at y e same 
time informed me she left London y e next day ; so I'm 
fore'd to address my thanks to d r M rs Delany, w cb I 
would not have given her y e trouble to read had I any 
other conveyance for 'em. I'm much disapointed y l Mrs. 
Chapone won't venture under my roof; 'tis my opinion 
she might be at perfect ease here, I leaving all their own 
way ; however there's no judging for others ; but I 
must hunt nt yo r kind endeavours have not succeeded, 
being perswaded her conversation w' 1 have been a benefit 
to all. I've no resource, can think of none to protect 
me from y" (harms and schemes of &c. ; they've so many 
little irons in y' fire ; tho' many burn, there's always some 
left to teaze and tire. 



1 Hester Mill so, the literary Mrs. Cl.apone. 
PART II. — VOL. III. II 



00 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

When next you see M rs Chapone pray tell her how 
sory I am my proposition does not suit her health and 
spirits, tho' I'm conceited enough to think it \v d do both 
w th y e aid of this salutary air. 

I hope beforo you receive this all bad effects of yo r cold 
are gone ; shall be oblig'd to Miss Port if she'll confirm 
it ; must absolutely forbid yo r writing ; shall realy take 
it ill if you do. 

The D s of Portland I beg my respects to ; am sory for 
her loss in Mr. Solander; 1 such a genius must be 
reckon'd a loss to all who had y e same cast of mind. 

The weather is wet and cross, but warmer y n it was ; 
it has not disagreed w th me, tho' it has not pleas'd me ; 
may it change to such as may perfect yo r health is sin- 
cerely wish'd by yo r most faithfull 

M. G. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

St. James's Place. 
Monday, 27th May, 1782. 

Tho' I am full of the honour I received yesterday, 
which I shall cherish as a cordial drop, they do not so 
much engross my mind as to make me forget that my 
dear Miss Hamilton was far from well ; and I am very 
anxious to know how she does to day. I have had a 
pretty good account from Whitehall — that her Grace was 
better last night after her return home ; but the hour of 
the day is not yet come that is to give me entire satis- 



1 Daniel Charles Solander, the eminent Swedish naturalist, who, in 17C8, 
accompanied Sir Joseph Banks and Captain Cook in a voyage round the world. 
He died 13th May, 1782. 



OF MRS. DELANY, 5)1 

factioD ; it wiU be hard and mortifying to me if my 
much esteemed and honored guests should suffer when T 
find myself so much better in health and spirits, from 
their kind indulgence to, my dear madam, y v most affec* 

and obliged. 

M. Delany. 



The following note was in Miss Port's handwriting. 

St. James's Place, June 4th, 1782, 

Tho' Mrs. Delany is unable with her own hand to 
address her dear Miss Hamilton, she cannot suffer this 
most important day 1 to pass without felicitating her on 
its return, and to entreat that Miss Hamilton will follow 
the dictates of her own warm and grateful heart to 
express (with the most profound respect and most 
zealous affection) how much Mrs. Delany wishes their 
Majesties and the princesses joy of the return of this 
day. 



Hie Rev. W. Gilpin to Mrs. Delany. 

Vicar's Hill, June loll), 1782. 

Dear Madam, 

I had a letter this week from Mr. Mason, who 
does not intend, I find, to visit London this year. He 
is very angry with me for supposing he could not spend 
a winter by his own fire-side at Aston ; indeed, I fancy 'd 
that if nothing else would have brought him to town 
the pleasure of seeing all his friends uniting to restore 
the nation would have had its influence ; but he tells me 



1 June 4th was the birthday of George I IT. 

H 2 



92 LIFE AND COEEESPONDENCE 

he has been better employed in putting up a Gothic 
window in the chancel of his church, than he should 
have been in running from one levee to another. 

The enclosed paper, madam, contains the account of 
Stonehenge, which I have at last obtained, and which 
you will be so obliging as to present, with rny very 
respectful compliments, to my Lady Duchess. 

I am, madam, with the greatest respect and esteem, 
Your obliged 

And most obedient, humble serv*, 

Will. Gilpin. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Port, of Ham, 

St. James's Place, 11th July, 1782. 

I have eaten my solitary breakfast, and who do you 
think was in my mind all the time ? If you guess right 
pray tell her I found her note in my table, and Bythia 
gave me her dear, kind letter ; but have not eyes or time 
this morning to say more on a subject that gives me 
some agitation, tho' I assure you I feel much happier to 
day than yesterday — " the day is clear, the sky serene," 
and I hope my dearest child has so far had a safe and 
pleasant journey. A message just now from the dear 
Duchess by Tom Cock, that she got well her first stage. 
And now I leave off till Astley arrives. Pray don't write 
all awry, as I do not scrawl ! consider the difference of 
ages — 82 against 10 J! 

Alas ! how short our sun shine ! now it rains. Take 
care of cold as you love one who loves you more than she j 
will say. Adieu. M. Delany. 



OF MAS. DEL ANY. 03 

Bee what pains I have taken to write as well, as I made 
your card wafer box this morning (for L could settle to 
nothing else). I have cramm'd into the box Mc cards 
you used to play with for Louisa! Mrs. Astley is come, 
tired to death with travelling all night; she is going to 
dnnk some tea and go to bed. She appears to me to be 
just what I want; about Molly B a size (but holds up her 
head better) ; no! handsome, but nothing disagrcablc in 
her appearance, w* is all 1 can see at present; tomorrow 
we shall settle to business; to-day it would have been 
rather too much. 

The Mrs. Astley alluded to in this letter, the Editor believes, 
was a clergyman's daughter, and very well connected, and she 
fully justified the good impression made by her first appearance. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

St. James's Tlace, London. 
23rd July, 1782. 

It is an age since I saw or heard of my dear Miss 
Hamilton. Pray gratify me in the latter, if you can't in 
the first. You know my pleasure in seeing you is much 
encreased by the opportunity of enquiring after those 
whose health and happiness we so well know the value 
of. Our dear Dss D r of Portland is now deeply engaged 
with Apollo and Neptune at Margate. A few^days 
spent with Mrs. Poscawen at her rural villa has greatly 
revived me. Tho' you should be in town to-da/or to- 
morrow, I dare not flatter myself with the hopes of one of 
your flying visits ; it would be a ray of light that would 



94 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

greatly enliven as well as oblige, my dear madam, your 
most affectionate and faithfull 

M. Delany. 
P.S. I had a pleasant visiter yesterday morning, Dr. 
"Warton 1 of Winchester. I wish he resided at West- 
minster instead of Winchester, that I might enjoy more 
of his sprightly and edifying conversation. 

Although no allusion has been made by Mrs. Delany for a 
considerable period to the progress of her wonderful Flora in 
paper mosaic, she had continued her work indefatigably from 
1774, when it was commenced, to the present year of 1782. One 
of the last flowers that she did was the Portlandia grandiflora, 
dated at the back by herself, " Bulstrode, 9th August, 1782, 
Kew," from whence the original specimen had been sent to her 
by the command of the King and Queen, who always desired 
that any curious or beautiful plants in the Koyal gardens should 
be transmitted to Mrs. Delany when in blossom, and there are 
numbers of the flowers executed by Mrs. Delany marked " Kew." 
In the volume which contains her beautiful representation of the 
" Portlandia grandiflora " there is the following account of that 
shrub in her own handwriting extracted from the history of 
Jamaica. 

Portlandia. 

" This shrub grows chiefly about the foot of the mountains in 
Jamaica, and thrives very luxuriantly among the rocks ; it rises 
to a branched stem, and shoots generally to the height of eight or 
nine feet ; but the trunk seldom exceeds two inches and a half in 
diameter, and is covered with a thick furrowed bark, The leaves 



1 Dr. Joseph War ton, son of the Eev. Thomas Warton, professor of poetry 
at Oxford, v^as horn in 1722, became head master of Winchester school in 
1766, where he continued till 1793, when he retired to his Rectory of Wickham, 
and died in 1800. His chief works are an " Essay on the Writings and 
Genius of Pope," and translations from Virgil. 



OF MRS. DELANY I 3 

are large ; smooth and opposite, of an oval form, and entire at 
the edges; the flowers are white, pretty open and long] and the 
fruit, a moderate lignous capsula, crown'd with five distinct 
leaves, and divided into two cells, adorned with five longitudinal 
ridg< 

"This plant is called by the name of ' Portlandia,' after the 
present Duchess of Portland, who is a great lover of botany, and 
well acquainted with the English plants." — Brown's History of 
Jamaica, page 165. 

There are also the following lines written by Mrs. Delany 
addressed to the Portlandia. 

Pair ilowcr ! that bears the honoured name 
Of her whose fair and spotless fame 

Thy purity displays. 
Emblem of Friendship's sacred tie, 
Thy form is graced with dignity 

Superior to all praise. 

Mrs. Delany 's friendship for the Duchess of Portland, like all 
her other affections, instead of declining appeared to strengthen 
with age. It will be remembered that in 1 779 she alluded to 
the Duchess of Portland's sympathy in the account she gave of 
the circumstances which led to her invention of this uncommon 
method of imitating nature, and her portrait of the " Portlandia " 
with the above lines still attest the existence of the same feelings 
after the lapse of eight years more, in which she had completed one 
thousand plants, which were admitted by Sir Joshua Reynolds 
and all the best judges of the art of drawing and painting to be 
unrivalled in perfection of outline, delicacy of cutting, accuracy 
of shading and perspective, and harmony and brilliancy of 
colours ; while at the same time they were the admiration of 
botanists such as Sir Joseph Banks, Dr. Solander, &c, &c. 
Indeed Sir Joseph Banks used to say that Mrs. Delany's repre- 
sentations of flowers " were the only imitations of nature that he 
had ever seen, from which he could venture to describe botanically 
any plant without the least fear of committing an error." It is 
an extraordinary fact that tins work has never (as far as the 



96 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Editor is aware) been described correctly. It would be im- 
possible to give anything like a just idea of it, but the accounts 
that have hitherto been given have been absolute fictions ! Dr. 
Darwin, in his Botanic Garden, thus alludes to it : — 

" So now Delany forms her mimic bowers, 
Her paper foliage, and her silken flowers ; 
Her virgin train the tender scissors ply, 
Vein the green leaf, the purple petal dye ; 
Round wiry stems the flaxen tendril bends 
Moss creeps below, and waxen fruit impends. 
Cold Winter views amid his realms of snow 
Delany's vegetable statues blow ; 
Smoothes his stern brow, delays his hoary wing 
And eyes with wonder all the blooms of spring." 

If anything is to be understood by Dr. Darwin's very 'poetical 
description, it is that Mrs. Delany made artificial flowers, with 
paper and wax, silk and wire ! he however thought it necessary 
to append a note of further explanation, which certainly com- 
pletes the bewilderment of the reader, as he states that " she 
executed a curious hortus siccus," by which term it could only 
be supposed that her work was a collection of dried plants ; and 
then in opposition to this assertion he proceeds as follows : — 

"Her method consisted in placing the leaves of each plant 
with the petals, and all the other parts of the flowers on coloured 
paper, and cutting them with scissors accurately to the natural 
size and form, and then pasting them on a dark ground ; the 
effect of which is wonderful, and their accuracy less liable to 
fallacy than drawings." 

It is very evident that Dr. Darwin never either saw the work 
or its inventress, and that he did not understand either drawing 
or painting, or it would have been impossible for him to have 
imagined such a process could result in success ! (Possibly he 
may have derived his information from Miss Burney ?) The 
Editor does not however presume to suppose that she can her- 
self give an accurate idea of the manner in which this wonder- 
ful work was executed, but at all events her statements will be 
true, and will not mislead, though they may fail to enlighten. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 07 

Mrs, Delany placed the growing plant before her, or a branch 
o( it if too Large to be copied entire. At the back of the plant, 
but not to touch it, she put a sheet of black paper, doubled in 
the form of a folding-screen which forming a dark background 
threw out distinctly the outline of the leaves and flowers, and 
made the Lights and shadows more distinct. Mrs. Delany did not 
draw the plant ; but by her eye cut out each flower or rather 
each petal as they appeared ; the lights and shades and tints 
afterwards all likewise cut out and laid on, being pasted 
one ever the other, — the stamina, style, and leaves were sepa- 
rately done in the same manner, in various coloured papers, 
which she used to procure from captains of vessels coming from 
China and from paper-stainers, from whom she used to buy 
pieces of paper in which the colours had run and produced 
extraordinary and unusual tints. In this manner she procured 
her materials, and was enabled to produce the utmost brilliancy 
where it was required with the greatest harmony of colouring 
from the various semi-tones of tint laid on. But that part of the 
work which appears likely ever to remain a myster}^ because no 
other person possesses the same gift, is the way in which by the 
eye alone scissors could be directed to cut out the innumerable 
parts necessary to complete the outline and shading of every 
leaf, flower, and stem, with such exactness that they all hung 
together and fitted each other as if they had been produced 
instantaneously by the stroke of a magic wand, and yet without 
a fault in perspective or in the most difficult foreshortening. 

The year 1782 was however the last in which Mrs. Delany was 
able to exercise this wonderful talent; and on finding that 
her eyes were no longer able to direct her scissors in imitating 
accurately the exquisite and minute tracery of nature, she com- 
posed the following lines, which still exist in her own hand- 
writing, and were placed in the first volume of her work. 

The date of the month does not appear, but there is every 
reason to believe that it was in the latter end of the year : — 

i in,' is cornel 1 can no more 
The vegetable world explore ; 



98 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

No more with rapture cull eacli flower 

That paints the mead or twines the bower ; 

No more with admiration see 

Its beauteous form and symmetry ! 

No more attempt with hope elate 

Its lovely hues to imitate ! 

Farewell ! to all those friendly powers 

That blest my solitary hours ; 

Alas ! farewell ! but shall I mourn 

As one who is of hope forlorn ? 

Ah no ! my mind with rapture feels 

The promise which thy Word reveals. 

Come Holy Spirit, on thy wing 

Thy sacred consolation bring. 

Teach me to contemplate that grace 

Which hath so long sustained my race ; 

Which various blessings still bestows, 

And pours in balm to all my woes ! 

sanctify the pointed dart 

That at this moment rends my heart ; 

Teach me, submissive to resign 

When summoned by thy Will Divine." 

M. D. 
St. James's Place, 1782. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Port, of Ham. 

Bulstrode, August 3 r <i 1782. 
The Gallery, 

I cannot sit down in my usual place without thinking 
of my dear little Portia, tho' not so selfish as to wish 
her skipping about me, tho' that would be very pleasant 5 
but her dear mama has the first claim, and demands 
every return of duty, love, and gratitude in the power of 
her dear child to pay her. 

The confidence I have that you will acquit yourself 
properly in all these points, my dear child, not only endears 
you to me, but makes me desirous of giving you every 



OF MBa DBLAmr, 99 

pleasure and advantage in my power to procure you, I 
came here yesterday evening, and I have brought little 
mousy, 1 and cou'd make a line tale of the pranks she has 
played had I eyes for the purpose. The little villain a 
week ago broke prison, and was missing a day and a 
night ; I lamenting and Astley sorry. On Monday 
night, just as I was stepping into bed, Moll B. called 
out, " I have found the mouse in the basket on the 
stand; but I cannot touch it." I put on my bed gown, 
but the simpleton not having clap'd a book on the top of 
the basket to keep the mouse in, it had frisked away. 
However, next day Bertha had the wit to find it behind 
one of the folios at the end of the room. I have now 
secured him in an iron cage that will keep him safe, and 
is also more elegant than the one he escaped from. 
Eyes and hands are tired, and must yield. 

Ever your affectionate 

M. Delany. 
P.S. Be sure you don't place this before your eyes, 
lest it should infect you with scribbling. I have too 
good an excuse ! 



Mrs. Dclany to Miss Port, of Hani. 

I am much obliged to you, my dear G°, for your letter ; 
but mortified I cannot read it. But why, my dear child, 
will you write in a hurry ? 6 lines a day will not tire 
your hand or head j and at the end of a week or ten days 
will produce me an entertaining, well written journal, 
allowing for unexpected interruptions. A carelessness 
in writing before your hand is perfectly formed will end 

1 A dormouse of Miss Port's. 



100 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

in scribble scrabble. But, upon the whole, the Duchess 
(who is so kind as to read my letters to me) says you 
write and spell well. I make it my request to her to 
tell me sincerely her opinion ; and you have a heart too 
good and gentle not to be ready to make the best use of 
friendly admonition. I ought not to talk of "scribble 
scrabble ;" but I have too good an excuse ! The Duke 
of Portland, Lord Titchfied, and Lord William Bentinck 
are here ; the Duke very well ; the Duchess going to 
Welbeck from Lord Stamford's. Our dear Duchess is 
not well; the damp weather has given her cold and 
rheumatism. Ever, my dear child, your affect* 

M. Delany. 



Fred. Montagu, Esq. to Mrs. Delany. 

Papplewick, Aug. 5, 1782. 

My dear Madam, 

I was delighted with your letter, not only be- 
cause I am always glad to hear from you, but because 
you write in good spirits, and your handwriting is much 
better than it was last year. 

Mr„ Weddel 1 has been with me at Salcey Forest. We 
went together # into Oxfordshire ; saw the ^mcomfortable 
glories of Stow, and its ridiculous temples. " The Elysian 
fields " are, however very beautiful. We then, after 
admiring and reverencing Oxford, paid our compliments 
at Nuneham to Lord Harcourt 2 and Mason! The 



1 Lady Bute, in her letter to Mrs. Delany of Aug. 20, 1785, mentions hav- 
ing spent a day with Mr. and Mrs. Weddell at their house built by Adams. 

2 What Earl Harcourt's garden at Nuneham was under the direction of 
Mason, may be discovered by referring to " The English Garden," a poem in 
four Books, by the Bev. W. Mason, with a Commentary and Notes by 
Dr. Burgh. 



OF MRS. DELANT, 101 

situation and place art 4 delightful; and such a flower- 
garden as excells every Sower-garden which ever existed 
either in history or romance. Bowers, statues, inscrip- 
tions, busts, temples; all planned by Mason, lie en- 
quired very much after you, which he would not have 
done alter OUT friend ! 

From X inn-ham 1 went to Blenheim, which Brown 1 
lias made a glorious place indeed. I meant to have 
visited Lord Dartmouth, hut he had left Sandwell ; I 
am afraid on account of the illness of his son Heneage. 2 
Last night I came home, and found my place in great 
beauty. I beg my best and most respectful comp s to the 
Duchess of Portland wherever she is ; and I am 
Your most faithful and affectionate 

Friend and servant, 

F. Montague. 



Tlie Hon. Mrs. Doscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Glan Villa, Saturday Evening, 
10th Angst. 1782. 

You are so good to tell me, dearest madam, with 
your own hand, and in excellent WTiting, many things 
that I was right glad to he told, and therefore you must 
allow me to tell you thus early how gratefull I was for 
them. I have heen since Wensday last in profound 



1 Launcelot Brown, the well-known landscape gardener. He was born in 
171." and died in 1782. He is well known by the nickname of " Capability 
Brown. I! spoiled many fine places in England, by opposing or reversino- 
the natural character of the ground or scenery. 

* William, 2nd Earl of Dartmouth, horn June 20, 1731, married, January 
11, 17.")5, Frances Catherine, only child and heiress of Sir Charles Grunter 
NicholL Their fourth son Heneage died Sept. 2, L782. 



102 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

solitude ; all my dormitory's forsaken and empty. Miss 
Sayer is returned to her father. No sound (of musick) 
is heard but the hollow wind. My son is also departed, 
and gone to Bill Hill ; a welcome guest, for he carries 
the favourite Johnny 1 in his hand ! Bel Ombre cannot 
have been much frequented of late, I think ; nor have 
even you, my dear madam, sought the shade ! Yester- 
day I paid my respects at Kenwood, where I am always 
receiv'd with kindness. My lord was gone to London ; 
but my lady and three Miss Murray s made me almost 
forget to go home. My lady gave me a catalogue of 
the plants that are to be sold at Muswell Hill next 
Monday ; but when you desire Mr. Lightfoot to read it 
to you I dare say he will tell you it is " Botanicum 
Christie folia," far beyond his bounded science ! Be that 
as it may, it has occasion'd such an adventure to me 
this evening as wou'd have diverted you much to behold, 
tho' I cannot relate it as I wish ; but I will trace the 
outlines. I went to see the plants this afternoon, and, 
being early, wish'cl to walk round the ground, where I 
have often admir'd many curious trees and shrubs. The 
gardener said " No ; the plants were to be seen in the 
library, and farther I must not go/' " May not I just 
step up to the conservatory? I will touch nothing." 
"No; I have my orders." As I grumbled, some pity- 
ing ear turn'd towards me, and a gentle voice said, 
" The mas r of the house, Mr. Poker, is just coming down 
that walk." For him I waited ; and soon Mr. and Mrs. 
Poker and the three Miss Pokers appear'd. To them, 



John, eldest son of the Hon. J. L. Gower and grandson to Mrs. Boscawen, 



OF MRS. DELANY 103 

curtseying low, T told my wish and my name. They 
most graciously said I shou'd walk all round, and they 
would attend me. They did ; and soon fell into 
admiration at my knowledge when I told them, this was 
a " hemlock spruce," and that a " dessiduous cypress." 
At length we came to a lioman altar, and there rny 
landlord instructed me in his turn. He shew'd me a 
Greek inscription upon it ; said " it came from Jerusa- 
lem, for Mr. Bcauclcrc spar d for no expence for these 
things, and bid me observe the hollow at top, w cl1 was 
for the holy water." I said I believed that was us'd 
only by Eoman Catholics. He said " Yes ; it was a 
Roman altar, a Roman Catholick altar fetch'd from 
Jerusalem, of a vast age indeed I" You may be sure I 
did not contest anything, but thought if Mr. Bryant 
had been there he wou'd have spoke a good word for 
Athens in preference to Jerusalem ; the catholicity of it, 
however, diverted me. I was then invited to tea, but 
declined, and parted with my civil hosts with many 
thanks, w ch they return'd, declaring that they had had 
many gardeners, but none had told them half the names 
of their shrubs that I had ; and they gave orders in my 
hearing that whenever that lady came she shou'd walk 
everywhere she pleas'd. Who Mr. and Mrs. Poker are 
I know not, nor to what warm hearth they belong ; but 
I am sure of the name, as both repeated it often to the 
other. They seem'd pleas'd with their purchase, and told 
me they were going to " build a six horse stable/' 
Adieu, my dear friend. 



104 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The Rev. William Gilpin to Mrs. Delany. 

Vicar's Hill, Aug*. 23, 1782. 

Dear Mad k , 

If I could conceive that my letters could give 
you any amusement, it w d be one of my most agreable 
employments to write them. But you want not such 
amusements as these ; you feel, I doubt not, that happi- 
ness from inward resources w h nothing external can give. 
I have indeed sometimes thought y* an abridgment of 
y e pleasures of sight is not an undesirable middle state 
between this world and y e next. The vanities of life 
are, in a great degree, excluded. We are sequestered, 
not by any human institution, but by our great Creator 
himself, from too violent an intercourse with y e world. 
Our eyes, tho' so great a source of our pleasures, are 
certainly as much so of our temptations, w h are emphati- 
cally called " y e lusts of y e eye." For myself, I have often 
thought there are few things w b come upon us under y e 
name of calamities w h I could bear with more fortitude 
than y e loss of my sight. Even y e pleasures with which 
they furnish me are not nearly so lively now as they 
once were. With y e works of art I am almost satiated. 
For y e works of nature I have still a relish; but even 
here I find my eyes among my greatest misleaders ; they 
are continually distracting my attention, and carrying it 
off among trifles. A ray of sunshine — a dark cloud- — y e 
sprig of a tree — anything, is sufficient to disturb y e most 
serious thoughts w h frequent my mind. Besides, I have 
seen so much of y e works of nature, have attended to y m 
so closely, and have gotten them so, iu a manner, by 
heart, y* I can at any time shut my eyes and see nobler 



OF MRS. DELANY. 105 

compositions than they can easily furnish when open, 
And these pictures 1 have at comandj I can bid y m 

come and go. They are rarely intruders. In short, y c 
eye is a sort of vehicle, in \v h y 8 mind is continually 
gadding abroad, visiting and gossiping without end. 
But when y° carriage is laid down, y (> mind must neces- 
sarily keep at home — become domestic, and employ 
itself in its proper business. Thus, dear madam, it is 
easy for us to console a neighbour ; y e great point is, to 
bear the calamity with that fortitude, w h you do, when 
we fed it ourselves. 1 

I suppose b} r this time, mad m , you w T ill be preparing 
for Bullstrode. In a letter I was honoured with lately, 
from y c Duchess, her Grace informed me she proposed to 
spend a few weeks at Margate, w h , I suppose, are now 
nearly expired. I hope she found y c benefit she expected 
from y c sea air ; and that she may long continue to give 
y e great world y c benefit of an example which they so 
much icant ! 

I have many things, dear mad m , to say to you for y r 
goodness to my niece, w h I shall always remember with 
gratitude. Poor girl ! I fear y e air of London will 
not agree with her. She contracted, in y e winter and 
spring, a bad cough — had a pain in her side, and other 
dangerous symptoms, for which her friends thought it 
right to send her into her native air. I hear from Car- 
lisle y fc her complaints are not at all removed ; and 
indeed I suppose y* if she sh d recover her health it will 
not be thought advisable to send her again to London. 

What unseasonable w r eather we have ! Much of our 

1 This letter was evidently in answer to a letter of Mrs. Delany, fearing 
loss of sight ; from which, however, she was mercifully spared. 

PART IT. VOL. III. I 



106 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

hay here is spoiled, and our scanty harvest is yet scarce 
begun, at a time when last year it was completely finished. 
After all the rains we have had, we had, last night, a 
greater torrent than we have ever had before. This, 
with y e public situation of our affairs, 1 affords so melan- 
choly a prospect that it requires no ordinary degree of 
faith in Providence to help desponding. They who can 
exert y* faith are well assured y 1 y e affairs of y e world are in 
better direction than any they c d point out y m selves. For 
my part I doubt whether we have authority to pray for 
fair weather ; we know we are authorised to pray for our 
daily bread, but y e means of obtaining it, I think, sh d be 
left to God. Mrs. Gilpin joins me in most respectful 
complim ts . We are glad to hear Miss Port has recovered 
from y e measles, and beg to congratulate her and you. 
Believe me, dear mad m , with all respect and esteem, 

Y r most obed* serv*, 

Will. Gilpin. 




Mrs. Delany to Miss Port, of Ham. 

Bulstrode, 1st Sept r ., 1782. 

I thank you, my dearest Georgina, for your last letter. 
The Duchess of Portland, who read it to me, said the 
first page was a very pretty hand. Their Majesties, 
Princess Eoyal, Princess Augusta, Princess Elizabeth, 
and the Prince of Wales came here yesterday morning 
by eleven o'clock. Her Grace of Portland had not 
breakfasted, and I had to receive the Eoyal visitors. 



1 A change in the Administration took place about this time in consequence 
of the death of the Marquis of Rockingham, and the war with America was 
still going on. 



OF MBS. MILAN Y. 107 

1 was dabbling at my work in the gallery, and Astley 
reading Froissari to me, when the approach was an- 
nounced. I hurried down to wait till I was summoned, 
which was immediately, and L found the King in the 
gallery, who most graciously came np and led me into 
the drawing-room to the Queen and Princesses. They 
wore not in spirits, especially the Queen, who seem'd 
much affected, and that every word was an exertion, tho' 
always most gracious. It is the first house they have 
been in since the death of Prince AlfV 

The Duchess of Portland soon made her appearance. 
Breakfast was prepared in the dining-room, and when 
the Duchess went to bring the King and Queen's choco- 
late the Queen proposed to follow her, and the King led 
the way. As soon as their backs were turned the 
Princesses took both my hands and said how glad they 
were to see me, and many other kind things, with their 
usual good-nature. The King proposed that all the 
company should sit round the table, and commanded me 
to be one of the number. His Majesties great politeness 
and good-humour (and he seemed to exert particularly) 
made the breakfast pass cheerfully. They staid till past 
two, and excused the Duchess of Portland's attendance 
to-day, it being Sunday, but I believe we shall go to 
Windsor to-morrow or Tuesday. 

The accounts of the Duke of Portland mend, tho' 



1 "Yesterday morning died at the Royal Palace, Windsor, of a consumption, 
i ne year and eleven months, Lis Royal Highness Prince Alfred, their 
Majesties' youngest son. 

" Prince Alfred is the first son of a king who has died in England since the 
death of the late Duke of Cumberland, and the third since the death of Henry 
Prince of Wales, son to King Charles I., not including such sons as lived to 
he kings themselves." — Universal Magazine of August 21, 1782. 

i 2 



108 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

slowly, but the surgeons say positively there is no dan- 
ger ; but it was a very allarming accident. 

I suppose you have seen in the papers the unhappy 
end of poor Mr. Yeates, who was drowned at Liverpool. 
It has indeed shocked us here extreamly, then what must 
his poor mother and family feel ? 

I am happy with your good account of all at Ham. 
My love to all, and to Calwich ; they are always included 
in my good wishes. 

The shells shall be sent, but as I fear it cannot be till 
I go to town, had they not better stay till you can pack 
them up yourself. Adieu. I really cannot see to say 
more. 



Frederick Montagu, Esq. to Mrs. Ddany. 

My dear Madam, Pappiewick, Sept. 10, (Qy 1782). 

If it was not as troublesome to you to write as it 
is agreeable to me to read your letters I should wish to 
receive eight sides of paper instead of four ! 

I am just returned from Wroxton. Many enquiries 
after you and the Dutchess of Portland. Lord Guilford 
intends visiting Bullstrode, I believe, on his way to 
London, and I suspect that the good Earl would find 
himself more comfortable if he was not honored with 
the great apartment. 

liord North was very good company, and described 
with much humour his going upon a man's back across 
the stream at Castleton. He has been in Derbyshire and 
Lancashire, and was so popular at Manchester that his 
carriage was drawn by men (like Mr. Wilkes I), but I am 
afraid my comparison is rather malicious. I hope the 



OF MRS. DBLANY, 100 

Dutchess of Portland is now perfectly recovered. You 
entertained me very much with your account of the com- 
pany who met in the gallery at Bullstrode. 

I have wrote in all humility to Mason to know when 
he means to rail here on his way from Nuneham. My 
architect ' comes on Thursday, and my trees arc all in 
gn at beauty, and 1 feel myself full as happy as if I was 
listening to the overloaded speeches of Lord Shelburne at 
the Treasury. I am sure that you and the Dutchess of 
Portland both think that the shade of my own vine 2 is a 
much more honorable and agreeable situation than the 
lofty apartments in Berkeley Square. Pray present my 
best respects to her Grace, 

And believe me your most truly 

And faithfully, 

P. M. 

Mrs, Dclany to Miss Port, cf Hum. 

Bulstrode, 21 Sept*. 1782. 

I thank you, my dearest Georgina, for your last letter, 
which I am told is very well written, and it appears so 
to me. This is a bad day with my eyes, and when I 
turn over a new leaf I must put it into Astley's hands. 

I will inclose all the riddles I have made (tho' not 



1 Papplewick was rebuilt by the writer of the above letter, the IU. Hon. 
Frederick Montagu, and finished in the year 1787. In Thoroton's and 
Thoresby's History of Nottinghamshire it is stated that " there were then in 
the dining-room pictures of the 1st Earl of Sandwich, the 1st Karl of Halifax, 

2nd Earl of Manchester, Sir Edward Montagu, Sir James Montagu, and 
Charlefl II :: ,_u, Esq." 

2 Mr. Frederick Montagu was appointed one of the Lords of the Treasury 

27, 17-2, under the Marquis of Rockingham, whose Ministry resigned 
July 13, 1782. He again came into office with the Duke of Portland's 
Ministry, April 4, 1783, which resigned Dec. 27 of the same year. 



110 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

worth your attention) for trie amusement of your bro- 
thers and sisters. The riddle upon Portland was not 
originally mine, but made some years ago ; however, the 
application suits both my dear friends. 

L d and Lady Weymouth left this place on Wednesday 
last, two Miss Thynnes and Master Thynne. I think I 
mentioned to your mamma that we had a Eoyal visit on 
Monday last, and every day expect a summons to the 
Queen's Lodge. Miss Hamilton has not yet spent a day at 
Bullstrode. to our great regret. Mrs. Gold worthy being 
often ill is a great confinement to Miss H. Miss Boyle l 
always inquires most kindly after you, and sends her 
love. We don't see Mr. Bryant so often as we cou'cl 
wish, he is so much at Blenheim. I suppose you have 
heard that the match is off between Lord Gower's son 2 
and Lady Caroline Spencer ; she does not like him, 
which is the reason given. L d and Lady Dartmouth are 
very well considering the loss they have sustained, 3 
which they bear with Christian fortitude. L d Lewisham 
is soon to be married to Lady Trances Finch, 4 L d Ayls- 
ford's sister ; a very agreable match to all partys. Young 
Lady Aylsford is in town expecting the hour of confine- 
ment ; she looks, and is very well. Poor Lady Wallingford 
is much out of order, but your friend, Lady Jerningham, 
is very well and now spinning in London. I have had 
a letter lately from Mr. Montagu, who is very well, and 



1 Afterwards the Baroness de Ros. 

2 George Granville, eldest son of Granville, 2nd Earl Gower, was born 
9 Jan. 1758. He married 4 Sept. 1785, Elizabeth, Countess of Sutherland, 
and was created Duke of Sutherland in 1833. 

3 Lord Dartmouth's fourth son died at Weymouth, Sept. 6, 1782. 

4 George Viscount Lewisham, afterwards 3rd Earl of Dartmouth, married 
24 Sept., 1782, Frances, daughter of Heneage, d Earl of Aylesford. 



OF MRS, DELANY. Ill 

seems as happy " under his vine " as he was when a 
L d of the Treasury, tho 1 his friends wish him engaged in 
the latter. L d Guilford is expected here the latter end of 
this week in his way to London. 1 will now leave you 
to your better employments, assuring my dearest child 
thai I am her mosl 

A ilectionate aunt. 

M. Delany. 

I almost wish ^Nliss Foley had staid the winter w th dear 
Lad} T Clan 1 . Let me know how they do when returned. 
When I go to town I shall send her a little Xtmas box 
as usual. Glad to know before that time what she will 
want. God bless you. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

My dear Madam, 

Instead of begging the Duchess to present my 
respects and good wishes to you I will write them in 
black ink, and in the midst of my remu-menage (Anglice 
rummage), for I leave my quiet cottage to-morrow and 
become a town lady. Bills to pay come in fast; I 
wish the cash may hold out ! My young companion, 
your favourite, Miss Saver, has left me long since, and 
I have been much alone ; but Sunday last arrived, before 
church, Mr. and Mrs. Cole, whom we (that is, my young 
Westminster scholars and myself) were very glad to 
receive. They went with us to church, and Mr. Cole 
affirmed that the service was performed in the Erse 
language. It is true that we did not well understand 



112 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

the Scotch gentleman who officiated in the absence of 
our pastor. From church we went to visit Mrs. Wil- 
liams, and were very well amused by an animated con- 
versation between her and Mr. Cole on the subject of 
Miss Sharp's marriage. Earnest enquiries are always 
made after Mrs. Delany's health by her sister botanist. 
More bills. Adieu, dear madam. Portez vous bien ! 
that is my request to you, and to hear that you comply 
with it will give sincerest pleasure to your affectionate 

F. B. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscaiven to Mrs. Delany. 

Charles Street, 26th Sept'. 1782. 

Mrs. Levison's pens are so good that they tempt me 
to express my gratitude for the favour of my dear 
friend's most kind letter, while she, (the mistress of the 
pens) is — in her bed you will think — no, nothing like it, 
for she is playing twelvepenny whist with 2 Westmin- 
ster scholars, her nephews, and Miss Brudenell. 1 I 
cannot say it is so silent a game as whist seems to im- 
ply ; however, if I make many blunders you will be 
pleased to ascribe them to the triumphs of an odd trick, 
or perhaps a renounce, for there have been great ex- 
clamations ! The weather quite delightfull, and the air 
perfectly balsamic, even in Kensington Gardens, where 
we spent the morning in slow marches from bench to 
bench. T rejoye'd to hear of Lady Weymouth at Bul- 
strode. I hope you will soon have good news of Lady 



1 Probably Augusta, daughter of the Hon. Robert Brudenell, and Maid of 
Honour to Queen Charlotte. 



OF MRS. DELANY, 11" 

Aylesford ; the longer these ladies keep out of their beds 
the shorter will be their Bufferings, T flatter myself. 
Lady Gower came to town on Monday, and din'd here 

next day. This morning she set out for Hatfield to 
spend the remainder of the week, and as she promis'd 
me the honour of a visit in her way back, in case I was 
at my villa, I shall remove thither next Saturday, Mrs. 
Levison having now some friends and acquaintance 
within reach, whereas when first I came I was her only 
companion, w cb was all I propos'd, for as to the hour of 
distress I always desert ! I hope I shall tell you of a 
female cousin now, for surely we have boys enough 
even for Lady Gower, who does not, however, willingly 
afford us a " Fanny " Levison. Lady Weymouth told 
you of L y Augusta Finch 1 with Mr. Stanhope of (York- 
shire), if it be true ? Mr. Onslow, 2 so lately a sorrow full 
widower, marries Mrs. Duncombe, who was not an 
afflicted widow ! She is a niece of my friend Lady 
Smvthe's. Miss Wilmot's marriage is in the newspaper, 
but I hear is not such as her parents can approve, I am 
therefore very sorry for them, as they seem'd vastly 
fond of her. 

I have not any adventures to relate ; this great town 
is so empty that I question if I cou'd have one were I 
to sally forth in quest of them. Your favour d Opie 3 is 



1 Lady Augusta Finch, only daughter of Daniel, 7th Earl of Winchilsea, 
died unmarried in 1707. 

- I lharlotte, daughter of Wm. Hale, of King's Walden, Esq., and third 

wife and widow of Thomas Duncombe, Esq., married February 13, 1783, the 
Hon. Thomas Onslow, who succeeded hifl father as 2nd Earl Onslow, in 1814. 
3 " Your favoured Opie." — John Opie the eminent painter, Mas a native of 
Cornwall. He was born near Truro, in 17G1. lie was the Bon of a carpenter, 
and was brought under the notice of George III. and Queen Charlotte by Mrs. 
Delany, who took great interest in him, and he painted by the command 



114 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

still in raptures at the thoughts of Bulstrode. His 
portrait of Lady Jerningham did not quite satisfy me, 
for I concluded it wou'd be perfect, and her person, 
hands, posture, spinning -ivh eel, all are so, but the face (or 
rather countenance) does not quite please me. 

F. B. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

Bulstrode, 29 SepP., 1782. 

Your letters must always give me pleasure, tho' alas ! 
I cannot enjoy them as I have done. My eyes are much 
in the same state as they have been for some months 
past, and serve me with some difficulty to attempt a 
flower now and then, w ch I can better see to do than to 
write, as the white paper dazzles my eyes, and at this 
moment it obliges me to break off till I recover a new 
ray of light. Our summons to the Boyal Lodge was 
last Monday ; we went at 6 from Bulstrode, called on 
Mrs. Walsingham for a quarter of an hour, and then 
paid our duty to their Majesties, received with their 
usual grace. All the Boyal Family were assembled 
except Prince William, who is very well recovered. 
The King was so gracious as to make me name the 
pieces I liked best of Mr. Handel's music, and they were 
well performed, and the Concert ended at 10 with the 



of their Majesties the portrait of Mrs. Delany, which was hung in their bed- 
chamber in Windsor Castle, and is now in Hampton Court Palace. Opie 
died in 1807, and was buried near Sir Joshua Reynolds in St. Paul's 
Cathedral. He published several works. His life was written by his wife 
Amelia Opie. The picture here alluded to of Lady Jerningham has been 
engraved from the original for this work. 



OF MRS. DELANY, 115 

of Correlli; but the young" Princes were so wonder- 
fully civil, and so full of address, that I lost many 
delightful passages of y'' music. We were dismissed at 
a (| r before eleven, and got home by 12, gloriously 
lighted by your friend Madame Luna. 

On Tuesday Lord Guilford came before 12 and staid 
till Wednesday. He seems very well, and so are all his 
family, 

I suppose you will write to Lady Will y y r congrat's to 
her, &c., on the marriage of Lord Lewisham to Lady Fran. 
Finch, 1 an event I hope will cheer our amiable Lord and 
Lady Dartmouth, who bear their great loss 2 with true 
Xtian resignation. "What a blessed state of mind is 
that of perfect resignation to the Divine will ! It blunts 
the sting of adversity and the loss of friends, tho' we 
must feel those deprivations ; it prevents regret, and 
it checks all self- aggravation ; it teaches us gratitude 
for what we have enjoyed, and raises our hopes of 
future and lasting happiness. What satisfaction can the 
most splendid fortune give compared with the happy 
conscientiousness of our having endeavoured to do our 
duty in that state of life to which ice are called ? That, my 
dearest child, consoles me for you in the midst of your 
trvals, and when I know you are struggling with many 
cares with fortitude and cheerfulness, it still adds to my 
esteem and affection, which will never fail in 

Y r ever faithful 

M. Delaxy. 



1 Lord Lewisharn, son of the Earl of Dartmouth, married 24 Sept., 1782, 
- :y Frances Finch, sister to the Earl of Aylesford. 

2 The Hon. Heneage L^gge, fourth son of the Earl of Dartmouth, died 
;t. 1782, aged 18. 



110 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Belany. 

Audley Street, y c 11* Oct r .. 1782. 

Your kind letter, my dearest madam, I esteem such a 
favour and value so highly that I shou'd not have fail'd 
to thank you immediately if I had not waited to an- 
nounce to you the arrival of a new cousin, and, thank 
God, I can now tell you, of a female one, who came safe 
at 2 this morning (the child large and passing fair I 
think). Mrs. Levison was ill all day yesterday, but did 
not send for Dr. Ford till night ; she is now in excellent 
spirits, but I have given orders for the utmost quiet, and 
am returning to my villa, not intending to visit her 
again till she has passed three days in solitude. In 
some haste and a little agitation, I remain, 
My dearest madam, &c, &c, 

F. Boscawen. 

P.S. — I think Lady Gower will forgive this one girl to 
civilize the boys. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Belany. 

Glan Villa, 30th Oct., 1782. 

If you have ever bestow'd a thought on me, my dear 
friend, you must have suppos'd that something has be- 
fallen my right hand, or else surely I cou'd not so long 
have delay 'd to express my gratitude for such kind con- 
gratulations as the Duchess and you honour'd me 
with on the birth of my g. daughter ; but the truth is, 
I had set my heart on returning them in kind, and was 



OF MRS. DELANV. 117 

in daily hope to have hoard of Lady Aylesford's haying 
added a new title 1 to the Duchess. Thank God, her lady- 
ship is well, but her pains have no1 been rewarded this 
time as cou'd have been wish'd. We have only now to 

hope that her recovery will be speedy and perfect. I 
shall make Mrs. Leveson a visit in a day or two, but I 
do nol stay, having my young friend Miss Sayer with 
me. The country still looks pleasant with the various 
colours and beautiful tints that the woods display. Ken- 
wood in particular is charming. I had the great plea- 
sure to dine there last Sunday se'nnight ; my lord was 
in most charming health and spirits, — I never saw him 
look better. My grandsons (from Westminster) had the 
honour and advantage to be of this delightfull party, 
which always gives great pleasure to their mother to 
hear of. Her sons come to me every week. Yesterday 
I carry 'd them to see Hatfield; Lord Worcester often 
asks me how Mrs. Delany does. Adieu, my dear madam, 
for I shall be too late for the post. 

F. Boscawen. 



That of Great-Grandmother. 

i 

Duchess of Portland. 

I 

Marchioness of Bath. 

I 

Countess of Aylesford. 



A Child born in 
1782. 



118 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



Mrs. Chapone to Mrs. Delany. 

Nov. 9th, 1782. 

I thank you, my dear madam, for your kind message 
with the welcome intelligence of your health. This 
comfort was accompanied by a disappointment with 
regard to your eyes, which I had heard, with very great 
pleasure, were so well as to allow you to pursue your 
delightful art ; but I find you must content yourself with 
producing flowers in summer, and the prospect of being 
restored to that employment in due season will, I hope, 
keep up your spirits thro' the dark months that forbid it. 
I should have taken the liberty of writing to you before, 
if I could have done it without making your tender heart 
a sharer in the sadness of mine ; but I did not wish to 
tell you all that pass'd in it when I revisited Hadley, 
after the loss of a second inestimable friend 1 from thence, 
and found those who were left to me of that dear society 
so depress'd with sorrow as to be incapable of all enjoy- 
ment. I bless Grod they are now much better, excepting 
my poor dear Mrs. Amy Burrows, whose spirits are but 
little if at all recover'd ; but I will say no more on this 
subject, for I know your real sympathy, and I wish all 
melancholy ideas to be far removed from you. Let me 
then talk of a wedding, and one which has made every- 
body smile, yet will, I hope, make the parties happy. 
I mean that of Miss Sharpe with Dr. Beau voir, 2 which 



1 Mrs. Smith, wife of Culling Smith, of Hadley, Esq., (near Rarnet,) and 
sister of the Rev. Mr. Burrows, died April 3rd, 1782. 

2 " Osmond Beauvoir, D.D., late Master of Canterbury School, married, 
14th Oct., 1782, Miss Sharpe, only daughter and heiress of the late Fane 
William Sharpe, Esq., M.P." 



OF MRS. DELANY. Ill) 

was oompleated (after all the delays her ancle cowH throw 
in the way) on fche I 1th of last month. I have since 
made her a visit of a tew days at South Lodge. I like 
all I have seen of her earo sposo except his years j but 
the' it was an union none of her friends could have 
advised, 1 really think sho may be happier in it than in 
a single lite, tor she certainly wanted a protector and 
guide in the management of her large fortune, whose 
interest was the same as her own. She seems contented 
and pleased with what she has done, and, he appears to 
he a very sensible, good-humour'd man, and will be, I 
doubt not, an indulgent father to her. 

Our friend Mrs. Carter is safely restored to her own v-- 
country and home, after two severe voyages, which 
almost destroy'd her with sea-sickness. I suppose you 
know she accompanied Mr. and Miss Pultney 1 to Paris, 
where Miss Pultney is placed in a convent for some 
time. It was a great exertion for Mrs. Carter in her 
state of health; but, if it does her no lasting injury, it 
will be a satisfaction to her to have had this opportunity 
of showing her ivillingness to oblige, where she is so 
much obliged. 

I have not heard of my sister Sandford this age ; per- 
haps you will be so good to allow your maid to give me 
a line to tell me that you continue well, and if so, pray 
be so good to let her mention Mrs. Sandford, and Mrs. 
Port's family. 

I beg leave to present my best respects to the Duchess 



1 Mrs. Garter wrote to Mrs. Vesey, from raris, Oct., 1782. Sir William 
Jolmstonc married Frances, daughter and heiress of Henry Pulteney, Esq. , 
brother of William, Earl of Bath, and their only daughter was created Baroness 
and afterwards Countess of Bath. 



120 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

D r of Portland, and to assure you, my dear madam, that 
I am with the highest esteem and respect 
Your most obliged, 

And aff te serv 1 , H. Chapone. 

Stephen Street, No*. 9 h . 

Have you read Cecilia ? l I hope it finds favour at 
Bui strode, for I am fond of the book and its writer. 
Mrs. Montagu is in town, and in high health and spirits. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscaiven to Mrs. Delany. 

Auclley Street, 13th Dec., 1782. 

My dearest Madam, 

I have lost nothing yet by your absence, for I have 
been confin'd a long time, and cou'd not have appear'd 
(as my custom is) in St. James's Place ; but now I hope 
I am getting well, and that a certain little fever, as well 
as cough, are about to leave me, having been blooded, 
and used much abstinence and retirement in my great- 
chair. Yesterday I went as far as Lady Mansfield's door, 
tho' I did not get out. To-day I have been to my own cot- 
tage. My grandson, John Leveson, was my companion. 
I do not hear when Lady Gower is expected. Lady 
Wallingford happen'd to call during my confinement, 
and being let in was so obliging to sit an hour, most part of 
which I think we dedicated to our friends at Bulstrode. 
The same thing happen'd one morning when Lady Jer- 
ningham 2 was so good as to visit me. Her ladyship has 



i 1 Cecilia was published in the year 1782. 

2 Mary, eldest daughter and heir of Frances Plowden, Esq., and widow of 
Sir George Jerningham, Bart., and mother of Sir William Jerningham, Baron 
Stafford, of Edward, (a distinguished man of letters); and of Charles, a 
General Officer in the French service. 



OF MKs. DELANY. 121 

got a new cloak from Paris much too large, too thick, too 
broad, too long, to put on herself, so that she is obliged to 
call her foot man to robe her. She seems in charming 
spirits, and pure well, only the thick fog will not let her 
Bee to work at her tapisserie, and she has a new pattern just 
arrived, so she revenges herself upon hex spinning wheel. 
and hopes yours is iu favour. Lady Mount Edgecumbe. 1 
desires me to present her best respects to the Duchess- 
She inquires much after your health, and begs to retain 
a place in your remembrance. I think she likes her 
situation very well, and the quiet life and good hours of 
Bruxelles, only she hankers after her friends in England 
a little. The Duchess of Arenberg and her family are 
vastly kind to her. I am going in my chair to Mrs. 
Leveson's to play at comerce with my grandsons, just 
broke up for the holidays. The Duchess Dow r of Beau- 
fort does not come to town this winter. My dear duchess 
is well. 

F. B. 

'Hie Bon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Dtlany. 

(1782). 

Lady Gower's arrival I hear nothing of. Lady 
Jemima Ashburnham 2 is said to have declared her choice 
to be fixed on Mr. Fawkener ; it is added her father is 
extremely displeased, w ch one can easily believe ; but 



1 Emma, only daughter and heir of Dr. John Gilbert^ Archbishop of 
Canterbury, married, in 1701, George, 3rd Baron Mount Edgcumbe, who was 
created Viscount Mount Edgcumbe and Valletort iu 1781, and East of Mount 

imbe, 18th Aug., 1789. 

2 Jemima Elizabeth, second daughter of John, 2nd Earl of Ashburnham 
was bora Jan. 1, 1762, and married James, 3rd Duke of Montrose, 26th Feb ' 
1785. She died Sept. 18th, 178G. 

PART II. VOL. III. K 



122 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



perhaps the whole is apocryphal; indeed, Mr. Boon 
told me he knew nothing of it, more than to have heard 
the gentleman's assiduities taken notice of. Of your 
belle cousine, the Duchess of Devonshire, 1 you have pro- 
bably heard. 

Last night there was an oyster club at my good neigh- 
bour Jenyns's. I was invited, and spent the afternoon 
agreeably, partly whist and partly chat, with Mr. and 
Mrs. Cole. I was invited to partake of the oysters too, 
but declined. Mr. Jenyns in high song, Mr. Cole not 
silent. 

Ever your most faithful servant, 

F. B. 

This letter was franked " Falmouth," to which title Mrs. Bos- 
cawen's son succeeded in Feb. 1782. 



. 



On 17th Dec. in this year, 1782, Mrs. Delany wrote from 
Bulstrode to Mrs. Frances Hamilton as follows : 

" I shall certainly loose no opportunity of giving you 
the satisfaction you desire in regard to Lady D., who I 
understand is still at Kensington. The time is un- 
certain when I may be within her reach, as I think we 
shall not leave this place this fortnight ; but I will send 
a card of inquiry after her, and communicate to her your 
affectionate solicitation about her. As soon as I go to 
town I will give her notice. 

"I have just had the satisfaction of receiving a letter 
from Governor Henry Hamilton, with his usual kindness 



1 William, 5th Duke of Devonshire, married, in 1774, Georgiana, daughter 
of John, Earl Spencer. 



Of MHS. PKLAXY. 123 

and pleasantry. The frequent recollections I have of the 
happy davs 1 have spent with my clear friends in Ireland 
enliven my (lark hours and fill inv heart with the warmest 
gratitude for the happiness 1 have enjoyed. I have been 
told that Mr. Edward Hamilton ' is in England ; I hope 
he will not fly hack Again to Ireland before I am within 
his reach. 

u The had weather affects even the fire-side of Bulstrode, 
which the Duchess of Portland and myself have in some 
degree been sensible of, though much less so, I am sure, 
than we should in London. It has interrupted, too, a 
little the intercourse between us and our Eoyal neigh- 
bours. The Queen made a morning visit here about three 
weeks ago, and brought only Lady Dartrey 2 with her. 
The Duchess paid her duty in return, at the Queen's 
Lodge ; I had the honour of accompanying her. The 
Queen was quite alone in her dressing-room. She was 
making fringe in a frame, and did me the honour to 
show me how to do it, and to say she would send me 
such a frame as her own, as she thought it was a work 
that would not try my eyes. We were dismissed at three 
o'clock, and as we were going to the chaise, we met, in 
the passage, the King and his greyhounds just returned 
from coursing. He told the Duchess that he could not 
part with her so, but that we must both make him a 
visit, and opened the door for us to go with him into the 
drawing-room. The Queen soon came to us, and invited 
us back to her apartment, as the warmer place, and we 
staid till four o'clock. We arrived at Bulstrode about 



1 Youngest son of the Hon. Henry Hamilton. 

5 The Lady Anne Fermor, daughter of Thomas, 1st Earl of Pomfret, married 
Thomas, Lord Dartrey, created Lord Viscount Cremorne in July, 1785. 

K 2 



124 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

half an hour after five o'clock : and found Mr. Bernard 
Dewes." 1 



Mrs. Delany to Court Dewes, Esq., at Welsbourn. 

Bulstrode, Dec. 26th, 1782. 

I wish I was able with my own hand to greet my 
good friends at Welsbourn, with my warm wishes. I feel 
for them all, particularly at this season, including the 
new year. Many thanks for the letters I have received 
from Welsborn, and for all their kind attentions to me. 
I have just now been made happy by my nephew Ber- 
nard's letter, and rejoyce at the good account he gives of 
his dear little girl. We are here much the same as when 
he left us ; not in very good spirits, as you may believe, 
after what you may have read in the newspaper — and of 
which I suppose you and your brother have talked over ; 
I own I am very apprehensive that the Duchess's health 
will suffer materially from it. 2 The D. of P. comes here 
on Saturday, and goes away again on Monday ; and I 
suppose we shall remove towards the latter end of next 
week. The hopes of seeing you and your dear sister, &c, 
will occupy my mind and mend my spirits. Last Tues- 
day I breakfasted at Uxbridge with Mr. and Mrs. Light- 
foot, and caught no cold, but I find quietness is my 
best friend. 



1 Mrs. Delany's nephew. 

2 " On the 23rd of December, 1782, Lord Edward Bentinck married, at 
Marybone, Elizabeth Cumberland, eldest daughter of Richard Cumberland, 
Esq." The Duchess of Portland was much distressed by this marriage, but 
with her usual kindness and good sense sent afterwards a trunk of plain house- 
hold linen to assist the commencement of Lady Edward Bentinck's house- 
keeping. 



OF Mils. DELANY, 125 

The Duchess and Mr. Lightfool send their compli- 
ments. 

M. D. 

It is here necessary bo allude to the Diary of Madame d'Ar- 
blay, a subjecl particularly unpleasant to the Editor, who is very 

much averse to throwing discredit upon the dead, especially 
upon an individual who may have been known to persons still 
living. When this work was commenced, the Editor did not 
intend to make any comment upon the above-named authoress, 
either under her maiden or her married name, as she believed 
that the obvious disagreement between the narrative in her 
" Diary " and the facts elicited from the original MSS, published 
in the three first volumes of the "Autobiography and Cor- 
respondence of Mary Granville," would have been sufficient to 
have disabused the minds of those readers who had ever perused 
both works, of any erroneous impressions which they might pre- 
viously have imbibed. But as it is apparent from the reviews 
which have hitherto appeared, that no discovert/ has been made 
of any discrepancy between the statements of Madame d'Arblay 
and the realities demonstrated by the original records of Mrs. 
Delany's life, — and that Madame d'Arblay is still invariably 
alluded to as an undeniable authority, and even quoted as if 
she had been an authentic and corroborative biographer, who 
had lionon red .Mrs. Delany by her notice, — the Editor is in duty 
bound to break through the silence which she would otherwise 
have maintained. A letter very lately received from an im- 
mediate descendant of Ann Granville's, contains words which 
may here be appropriately quoted : "Fanny Burney has taken 
possession of the ear of those who found their amusement in 
reading her twaddle (that piece of old-fashioned slang I should 
not have dared to write, or utter, within hearing of my dear 
mother — but it is a far more intelligible piece of slang than 
what one hears now) — and there appears to be little help against 
the spell by which she (Fanny Burney) contrived to drag down 
the person and position of Mrs. Delany to her own level." 



126 LIFE AND COREESPONDENCE 

The period has now arrived which Madame d'Arblay records 
in her Diary as the date of her having been first presented to 
Mrs. Delany by Mrs. Chapone, and she says that interview took 
place January 19th, 1783, the year which we are now about to 
commence. To those who remember Madame d'Arblay's Me- 
moirs of her father, and who have read the very just notice of 
that work in the Quarterly Review of April 1833, it would be 
superfluous to comment upon the scene and dialogue which 
Madame d'Arblay wrote and left for publication, as having taken 
place between Mrs. Delany and herself on the above named 
19th January; but as Madame d'Arblay's well-earned position 
as a writer of FICTION seems to be so universally forgotten, a few 
passages from the Quarterly Review will be useful to remind 
the readers of these volumes that they must not expect to find 
any corroboration of Fanny Burney's romances in the worldly 
position, circumstances, sentiments, manners, or conversation of 
Mrs. Delany ; and that they need not be surprised when they 
find that Madame d'Arblay made herself as much the heroine of 
a tale when she chose Mrs. Delany for one of the dramatis per- 
sona, as she did when professing to write her father's life ! 

The writer in the Quarterly thus speaks : — 

" From these voluminous papers (those left by Dr. Burney) 
Madame d'Arblay has made very scanty extracts, and has be- 
come the writer of a work essentially her own, and not the editor 
of her father's recollections of his life. 

" Almost the only passages in these volumes, which exhibit 
common sense, good taste, or intelligible language, are the few 
sentences which are given in Dr. Burney's own words, and which, 
though occasionally somewhat inflated, appear simple and natural 
in the midst of the strange galimatias of pompous verbosity in 
which his daughter has enshrined them." 

Some instances are afterwards given of the remarkable style 
and peculiar English in which Madame d'Arblay wrote, and 
one sentence is selected as being probably unique in the records 
of that language. 

" Scarcely had this harrowing filial separation taken place, ere 



OF BIBS. DELANY. 127 

nn assault was made on his conjugal feelings by the sudden-at- 
t he-moment, -tfto'-from-lingermg-illru tmet-cften-pn viously-expeeted- 
death of Mi*s. Burney, his second wife." This second wife was 
the step-mother of .Miss Fanny Barney, who has identified her- 
$elf by the compound designation of " t he-then- Boo7cham,-and- 
afterwards- We$t- II mbU-femaU-hermit" 

*• Madame d'Arblay with consummate art (or a confusion of 
ideas which has had the same effect) conceals from her readers, 
and perhaps from herself, that it is her own memoirs, and not 
those of her father, which she had been writing, and we have a 
strong suspicion that it is because her father's autobiography did 
not fulfil this object, that it has been suppressed." 

She laboured "to conceal" that she was writing her own life, 
and •• making her father 's memory as it were, carry double.'" 

" We have in almost every page abundant proof that the habit 
of novel-writing has led her to colour and (as she may suppose) 
embellish her anecdotes with sonorous epithets and fictitious 
dtt'fils, which, however, we venture to assure her, not only blunt 
their effect but discredit their authority." 

The pert and vulgar dialogue alleged by Miss Burney to have 
taken place on her first interview with Mrs. Delany, and the 
scene given in her Diary, dated 19th January^ is so utterly 
incredible to those who recollect the relative position of the 
speakers, or the dignity and refinement of Mrs. Delany, that any 
further remarks upon the subject are needless, excepting in 
relation to the Duchess of Portland, who Miss Burney describes 
as so very anxious to see her (Miss Burney) on this occasion, that 
she came particularly early to secure that gratification ! 

The Duchess of Portland had a prejudice against female novel 
writers, which almost amounted to a horror of them, and the 
Editor's mother often told her that it was with the greatest dif- 
ficulty that Mrs. Delany at last persuaded the Duchess of Port- 
land to see Fanny Burney, whose power of amusing conversation 
and clever narrations, with exact imitation of the voice and 
manner of those she described, rendered her very entertaining ; 
whilst her apparent humility, constant deference, and respectful \J 



-a- 



128 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

attention in the presence of Mrs. Delany so much pleased and 
interested her that she was induced, some time after she had her- 
self received Miss Burney, to gratify the latter, by obtaining the 
Duchess of Portland's unwilling consent to have the " authoress of 
Evelina " presented to her. Mrs. Delany thought that she might 
thus have an opportunity of diminishing the prejudice of her 
friend against the class whom she then considered so undesirable 
as acquaintance in private life, and believing Miss Burney to be 
as timid and diffident as she was clever, she bestowed upon her 
that notice and encouragement which at the expiration of half 
a century appeared in print magnified, misstated, and finally 
misrepresented by its recipient as chiefly conferred by herself on 
/O Mrs. Delany ! 



On the 24th February Mr. Dewes wrote to his brother as 
follows — 

" I have seen Mrs. Siddons once or twice lately, and 
think Isabella, 1 her best character. 

Mrs. Port set out y 9 morning in tolerable health and 
spirits, Mrs. Delany is pretty well ; desires her love to 
you all. 

The ministry I believe go out to-day. If I hear y e 
arrangement before night I will send it you. The Duke 
of Portland is I fancy to be Eirst Lord of the Treasury." 2 

On the 27th of this month Miss Port wrote to Miss Hamilton 
to invite her to dine with Mrs. Delany at 4 o'clock, but to beg 
that she wdl not mention the invitation as it was " a party incog, 
of her aunt's select coterie." 



1 Isabella, in Southerne's tragedy of " The Fatal Marriage." 

2 In April, 1783, was formed the " Coalition Ministry," so called from the 
coalition of Lord North and Mr. Fox, who had for years previously opposed 
and even abused each other. This ministry was broken up at the end of the 



OF MBS. DELANY. 129 



May 10th, 17s:;. Mrs, Delany wrote to Mis* Hamilton as 

follows : — 

" T am truly Bensible ol' what you have lately suffer'd, 
by my own feelings, on the Bad affliction of our most 
amiable and excellent King and Queen, but their supe- 
riority of mind, (which lias boon severely tried on many 
occasions, will I trust support them under this tender 
one, as they have recourse to that sublime consolation 
which can never tail them.' 1 

The affliction alluded to, in the above letter, was the death of 
the Prince Octavius, the eighth son of King George and Queen 
Charlotte, whose loss was severely felt by both his royal parents. 
He was born 20th Feb., 1779, and expired at Kew Palace, 3rd 
May, 1783. 



Court Dewcs, Esq., to Miss Port, of II 'am. 

A Wclsbourn, ce 12™ Mai, 1783. 

Je vois ma chere niece qn'il vons est beaucoup plus 
agreahle d'ecrire en Francois qu'en Anglois, vons m'avez 
donne trois pages de Tun et a peine six lignes de l'autre, 
mais ces lignes m'etoient bien precieuses puisqu'elles 
m'assuroient de la saute de notre tres chere tante. Je 
commencois a m'inquieter de nonvean sur ce chapitre, et a 
souhaiter encore trois lignes en quelque langue que ce 



year. The principal members were— Duke of Portland, 1st Lord of the 
Treasury; Viscount Storinont, President of the Council; Earl of Carlisle, 
Lwd Privy Seal ; Frederick, Lord North and lit. Hon. Charles James Fox, 
Home and Secretaries; Lord John Cavendish, Chancellor of the 

Exchequer, Arc. The Great Seal in commission, Lord Loughborough, Chief 
Justice of the Co.umon Tleas, First Commissioner. 



130 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

soit, quand l'arrivee de mon voisin le jeune Abbe, qui a 
eu l'lionneur de diner chez elle, m'a un peu tranquillise ; 
mais avec tout cela j'espere que cette semaine ne passera 
pas sans que je ne recoive de vos nouvelles. II fait ici 
un tres beau terns pour la promenade mais pas pour la 
campagne, tout le monde fait voeux pour la pluye, et se 
plaint du soleil qui seche les champs ; pour moi, le soleil 
m'est un si bon ami, que je puis a peine me resoudre a 
souliaiter son absence, mais comme je sens que ce que 
nous plait ne nous est pas toujours utile, je tacherai a 
scavoir me passer de ses rayons, et a voir avec plaisir un 
ciel nebuleux. Mon frere m'a quitte la semaine passee, 
M. Sandford vient de faire le meme ce matin ; M. J. 
Delabere me reste, et j 'attends demain mes cousins J. et 
F. Holy oak, car malgre tout ce que je vous ai dit des 
charmes de la solitude, elle n'est bonne que par inter- 
valles, et pour nous faire mieux goivter les agremens de la 
societe. J'avois ecrit jusq'ici quand j'ai recula charmante 
lettre de notre chere A. D. accompagnee d'un tres joli billet 
de sa petite niece ; vous m'avez bien dedommage de la 
brievete' de votre derniere, et pour l'autre, il me faut un 
grand pouvoir sur moi-meme de ne pas laisser exbaler ma 
reconnoissance en Anglois, mais puisque j'ai commence en 
Frangois je tacherai de continuer sur le meme ton. J'ai 
tres bien demele l'ecriture, mais si elle la fait avec peine, 
comme j'ai peur, elle doit faire usage de son secretaire. 
Je suis ravi qu'elle conserve un sante passable, le sejour 
de la campagne servira j 'espere a l'entretenir ; ce mot de 
campagne vous met je crois dans un petit embarras, entre 
le regret de quitter une chere amie et le desir de revoir une 
autre, heureuse vous qui en avez de tous cotes ; mandez 
moi si je pourrais vous etre utile dans votre voyage; si 



Of MRS. PEL A NY. 131 

vous passtv. par Welsboarn, oomms je lVspere, souvenez 
vous de Miss Lane and de mon paysage. A l'egard dn 
petit compte, doni A. D, me parle, priez la de ma part 
d'employei one partie de oe que m'eii revieut aux frais 
de votre voyage, el nous reglerons le reste quandje serai 
assez heureux de la revoir. Je suis bien aise que vous 
avez me Mrs. Siddons quoique cela a dii vous co liter 
quelques larmes, si nan par attendrissement au moins par 
bienseance etpour itre comme lesautresl 

Si Mrs. Sandford se trouve avec vous, faites lui mes 
complimens les plus affectionnes ; dites lui, que j'ai ete tres 
content de Mr. son fils pendant un mois qu'il m'a fait 
le plaisir de passer ici, et que j'ai tout lieu de croire qu'il 
re'pondra parfaitement aux soins qu'elle a pris de son 
education. 

Ma nouvelle concierge me plait passablement bien 
pour le present, mais " new brooms, §c" vous savez le reste. 
Mrs. Delabere se trouve un peu mieux, qu'elle n'a ete, 
mais elle est toujours dans un etat bien dangereux. 
J'ai eu le plaisir de recevoir ce matin un lettre de votre 
chere maman de sa propre main, elle me marque que ses 
couches ont ete tres heureuses et qu'elle commence a se 
retablir journellement. 1 Pour moi je me trouve la la, 
tantot assez bien, tantot pas tout a fait, a mon ordinaire, 

mais dans tous etats 

Votre tres affectionne\ 

C. Dewes. 



1 The family Bible testifies that Frances Anne, youngest daughter of Mrs. 
Port, was born on Good Friday morning, 17th April, 1783, and that her 
sponsors were the Hon. Mrs. Lk TO80D ( i"\ver(born Boscawen) ; Mrs. Emerson, 
of East Retford, Notts ; Alexander Forbes, Esq., Captain in the Blues ; Matt. 
Bloxam, Esq. She married Abel John Ram, of Clonnattin, Esq., Ireland. She 
died, Nov. 4th, 1860. 



132 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

P. S. II n'est pas necessaire je crois que je vous re- 
commande de dire pour moi tout ce que vous sentez que 
je dois sentir pour notre chere A.D. 



Miss Burney to Miss Hamilton. 

(St. Martin's Street,) 
Thursday morning, 17th July, 1783. 

Your kind and very elegant note, dear madam, I un- 
fortunately missed receiving till last night, by a visit in 
the country. I am very sorry I cannot immediately 
wait upon you to thank you not only for the present, 
but future favour to which you bid me look forward, but 
I am engaged to spend the whole day out. Can I have 
the honour of seeing you to-morrow ? If so, I will be 
in Clarges Street early in the afternoon, where I can 
only hope you may not repent your kind predilection in 
favour of your obliged, and most obedient 

H. servant, 

F. Burney. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Port, of Ham. 

St. James Place, July 31st, 1783. 

My dearest Mary, 

I miss you in every corner from morning till 
night, and instead of meeting with comforters, every 
one belonging to my house is in the same case ; yet I 
must say I rejoyce you are gone of this hot unwhole- 
some city, that you are going % to friends you love so 
well, and also, who will and must make you amends 



OF MBS. DBLANY. 133 

for all you have lefl behind I I was happy with your 
little note from Oxbridge, and I endeavour to recollect 

all your kind injunctions, as 1 am sure you will mine. 
I enjoy the pleasure oi' all your friends in receiving 
you amongsl them, and I trust you will say everything 
you know 1 wish to be said for me. Believe me more 
than 1 can say ever your 

Affectionate, 

M. D. 



id of letter from Mrs. Ann Astley {waiting-woman to Mrs. Delany) to 
Miss Port, of Ham. 

I flatter myself a few lines from me will be acceptable. 
I thank God, your worthy aunt is much better in health 
than I expected after being so much affected at parting 
with you, together with the hot weather ; and her great 
concern about the Dutchess of Portland, I was afraid 
wou'd have been too much at her advanced time of 
life ; but, indeed, you may depend upon my care in every 
respect in doing everything I think will contribute either 
to her health or happiness. She is gone to-day with Mrs. 
Sandford to Lord Guilford's ; but they return in the 
evening to meet the Dutchess of Portland, who sets off 
for Margate on Saturday evening ; it is supposed she 
stays three weeks, during which time her Grace wants 
.Mrs. S. to continue in town, but I do not, because I 
know the country air wou'd be of service to Mrs. Delany, 
Mrs. Sandford and her sons beg to be kindly re- 
membered to you — the latter pay me very frequent 
visits, and I am learning them piquet, which is I think 
one of the most agreable games upon the cards. You see 



134 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

how they are obliged to come down, now you are gone, 
but I do my best to entertain them, and am not a little 
proud in being any substitute for you. 

I have set twice for my picture, which everybody says 
promises to be a very good one. I told Mrs. Delany 
last night what a desire Mr. Eeves had to take yours ; 
she wished she had known it before, as she said you 
should have sat to him. 

This I expect will find Miss Port at her dear and 
worthy uncle Dewes's. I beg my respects to Miss 
Cameron. I am sure she as well as yourself, will enjoy 
the sweet walks in Hagly Park, which are charming 
beyond description. You will excuse this scrawl, when I 
say the young gentlemen are playing at cards upon the 
same table, where I am writing, and are talking the 
whole time. I beg to be properly remembered to your 
good mamma, who I hope you will find in perfect health, 
and that we shall see you both here again is the sincere 
wish of her who subscribes herself, 

Madam, your obliged humble servant, 

Anne Astley. 

Mrs. Anne Astley was another of the several instances which 
have appeared in the course of these volumes, of gentlewomen in 
. the last century, who, being unprovided for, thought it was as 
creditable to themselves as beneficial to their circumstances to take 
places as waiting-women and housekeepers in the service of those 
who were superior to themselves in station and circumstances. 

Mrs. Astley was a clergyman's daughter, and she entered Mrs. 
Del any 's service as her waiting-woman, and remained in it till 
the death of her " mistress" (as she was always proud to call her,) 
and whom she served with the utmost fidelity, never forgetting 
her own relative position in consequence of being deservedly 
trusted, and visited in her room in the manner described in the 
above letter. 






OF BIBS. DELANV. 135 

Ooimteu of Butt to Mr$, DtUmy. 

Wortley, 1 August 5th, 1783. 

I am much obliged, my dear friend, by your letter 
and good account of yourself. I was sure you would find 
both pleasure and satisfactioD in having Miss Port, and 
hope your visit to Mrs. Boecawen will conduce both to 
your health and spirits. 1 wish you had been going to 
have staid there longer than you mentioned; if this 
should come to your hands while you are at Colney, will 
you be so good to make my comp 8 acceptable. I have 
nothing to tell you of myself, except that Louisa 2 and 
I take the air twice a day ; this exercise, with the clear 
and sharp air of our solitude, contributes very much to 
our good health, but does not afford anything very 
entertaining to write. We found the country in a most 
deplorable condition for want of rain, the springs almost 
evcr\- where dry'd up, the rivers so low that the mills 
could not grind the corn, and the cattle every where 
almost famished for want of pasture, but within these 
three days there has fallen plenty of rain, and the face of 
the country wears already a more cheerfull and comfort- 
able appearance, and the dismal brown hue is changed 
to a lively green. 

I must own, I always thought that Lord and Lady 
Stamford 3 had no intention of coming at present, and 



1 Wortley, near Sheffield, in the county of York, now the residence of Lord 
Wharncliffe. 

2 Louisa, youngest daughter of the Earl and Countess of Bute, was born 
Aug. 12th, 1757, and died, unmarried, Aug. 4th, 1851. 

3 George Harry, 5th Earl of Stamford and Warrington, married, May 28th, 
1763, Henrietta, second daughter of William, 2nd Duke of Portland, and sister 
of Elizabeth, Lady Weymouth, afterwards Marchioness of Bath. 



136 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

am, therefore, not surprised there is no news of them, 
their absence must give Lady Weymouth still more busi- 
ness, but I dare say she will go thro' it with propriety, 
and I natter myself, her health will not suffer by it. 
Excuse so dull a letter, my dear madam ; I shou'd not 
have sent this but on the supposition that it wou'd 
be a satisfaction to you to hear I am well, and that I 
have great pleasure in repeating the assurances of my 
being ever my dear Mrs. Delany's 

Faithfull and affectionate, 

M. W. Bute. 



Tlie Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Badminton, Saturday, 23rd Aug., 1783. 

Not a word was effac'd of your kind letter, my dearest 
madam, and / rejoycd therefore, for they are all precious 
and I cou'd not have spar'd one of them ! Your picture 
of yourself is delightfull. I see you in your morning 
walk. The weather is not weary of being fine, bright, 
and shining ; tho' you are in no danger from y r foe Apollo 
while the friendly wood protects you. Did the meteor 
so much talk'd of visit Bulstrode ? if it was at Bill Hill 
I saw it not, but was playing at back gammon with my 
lady, who is pure well and very busy ; she has finish'd 
Mr. Masons Bower, and has other works in hand. I 
staid at Bill Hill only till Tuesday, and then repair'd to 
Oxford for variety of road, and because I cou'd not stride 
from B. H. hither in a day that was likely to be so hot. 
At Oxford I found Miss More, who was come to her 



OF Mils. DEI AM. L31 

friend Mrs ECennicot 1 in distress. With her I spent Hie 
evening, and nexl morning, sally'd forth to see the fine 
painted glass executed by Mr. Jarvis for which S r Joshua 
Reynolds painted the design ; but alas, when I came to 
New College I found the whole closely boarded up, and 
my cicerone fcold me they bad taken the opportunity of 
this vacation to pnt the finishing hand to it. At Burford 
I went to the forlorn mansion of the Lenthals to see the 
family-picture of Sir Thomas .More by Holbein (you 
have the print of it in Knight's Life of Erasmus). I 
thought it well worth seeing, as well as several other 
portraits, but it griev'd one to observe how they have been 
neglected and spoilt ! 

I had the satisfaction to find all well here, and the 
Duke and Duchess full of commendation of my son's old 
mansion in Cornwall, 2 \v ch they think delightfull, and were 
much pleas'd with their residence there. L d Clifford 3 is 
dying at Ugbrook, 4 a sad loss to my lady, 5 who is a sister 
of Lady Dillon's you know. It is feared L d Courtenay 6 
will marry a Miss Bamfylde, who has such compassion for 
his motherless daughters that she has taken a house near 
Powderham in order to visit them every day ! Such is 



1 Dr. Kennicott died in 1783. 

* Tregothnan, near Truro. George Evelyn Boscawen succeeded to the family 
honours and estates on the deatli of his uncle, Viscount Falmouth, Feb. 4th, 

3 Henry, 5th Baron Clifford, died Sept. 1st, 1783. 

4 Ugbrook, Devonshire, the seat of Lord Clifford. 

5 Lady Anne Lee, fifth daughter of George Henry, 2nd Earl of Lichfield, 
married, in 1749, to Henry, 5th Baron Clifford. 

6 Henry, 2nd Viscount Courtenay, was born in 1742, and married, in 1701% 
Frances, daughter of Thomas Clack, Esq., of Wallingford, and had one son 
and thirteen daughters. He was the 15th inheritor of Powderham Castle. 
He did not marry a second time, and died in 1788. 

PART II. — VOL. TIT. L 



.138 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Devonshire news. From London I hear a report that 
Mr. Fox 1 is to marry Lady Rockingham, w cb is probably 
ivit or intended for it. I have a letter from Mrs Wal- 
singham, who has been a great traveller, I believe at 
Welbeck, Worksop, &c, certainly atllardwick, Castleton, 
Chatsworth and Matlock, and Dovedale. Call'd on 
Mrs. Port at Ham, and stole her daughter (she being 
out) to walk round that beautiful place ! 

1 rejoyce in your confirmation of the charming account 
I reced at Ken Wood of the Duchess's health, and am 
much flatter 'd by the honour of her Grace's kind 
message to me. I hope in the month of October I 
shall be so happy as to pay my respects at Bulstrode for 
a few days in the middle of the week, for on Saturdays, 
Sundays, and Mondays, I receive my young gentlemen 
from Westminster. They are here now and a young 
Etonian of L d Bat hurst's 2 with them, who seems (as in- 
deed they are) a fine youth. 

Adieu, my dear friend. Y r kind pencil has drawn upon 
you the dull scratchings of my pen, a very bad one it 
is, but very honest and true when it assures you that 

I am y r very 

Affectionate, faithful, 

And obliged servant, 

F. Boscawen. 



1 The Rt. Hon. Charles James Fox married Elizabeth Bridget Armstead. 

2 Either Henry, Lord Apsley, or the Hon. Apsley Bathurst, who were the 
only sons of Henry, 2nd Earl Bathurst. 



OF MRS. DBLA1 131) 

Right Hon. Frederick Montagu, 1 to Mrs. Delany. 

llartk'burv I'astle, Aug. 31st. ('? 1783.) 

My dear Madam. 

I do assure you that you have not been forgot in 
the conversations at Hartlebury. The old towers and 

hanging walls and waters hav< i to your name ! J 

wish, however, that you was here in person, you would 
an admirable mansion, a magnificent hall, a delight- 
full park, every thim; pleasing and commodious, and the 
master of the house all that you hiow and admire ! 
The new library is an excellent room, with a very good 
collection of books, and your friend's picture in the room. 
I shall "be at Papplewick the latter end of the week. 
The Bp. of Worcester begs his very particular compli- 
ments. I am y 1 * most faithfull, 

And sincere humble servant, 

Feed. Montagu. 



2'he lion. Mrs. Boscaw^n to Mrs. Dtlany. 

Warminster, ye 25^ Sept', 1783. 

Dear Madam. 

Having been abroad upon my travels all this week 
it is very possible I may have miss'd the pleasure of 
a letter from you, w ch you had sent to Badm 11 ; if I were 
sure of that it wou'd increase my impatience to return, 
w ch , however, we do not purpose to do till to morrow 
evening, and then shall be before hand with our hosts, 
who are now presiding at the races at Monmouth as they 
must this evening at the ball, nor will they get home 
(as they come on their way visiting) till Saturday night. 



1 Frederick Moutag the Lords of the Treasury, wa- appointed 

Privy Councillor, April 1-iih, 1783. 

L 2 



J 10 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

But 1 do not tell you where I have been, or who I have 
seen ; some, believe me, whom you wou'd be very glad to 
see too, especially as their looks imply' d most perfect 
health. I have seen Lady Weymouth and her three 
eldest daughters, all in perfect health. I cou'd not 
leave Longleat without wishing to pay my respects to 
its noble mistress ; she was extremely obliging. We 
talked of Bulstrode you may be sure, and she told me of all 
y r expeditions (to Kew twice), &c. I did not tell Lady 
Weymouth all I thought of Longleat, lest it shou'd sound 
like flattery, but to me it appear'd the very finest place 
I ever saw in my life. The sun shone perfectly bright, 
the water was all silver, the light and shades (of the fine 
trees) were beautifull ; in short the whole with its dis- 
tant hill so entirely excited my admiration, the superb 
majestick structure being unique, that I dare say I shall 
never see anything again that I like upon the whole so 
well. Mr. HoareV I have since seen ; it has many pretty 
opera scenes in it, but is not in the style of Longleat, — 
far from it. I sh d have told you that our first gite was 
Frome, and our first care to visit Dr. Eoss ; 2 but alas ! 
he had set out for Bristol that morning to stay 3 or 4 
days. We left our names upon his writing-table, but his 
good company would have enliven'd our evening greatly. 
We spent all yesterday at Mr. Lloare's, 3 and were lucky 
in a fine day to sit, and tarry at the different stations. 



1 Afterwards Sir Richard Colt Hoare, Bart, author of " The Ancient and 
Modern History of Wiltshire," translator of the "Itinerary" and other works 
of Giraldus Cambrensis, and an amateur artist and architect. 

2 John Ross, D.D., who in 1778 was made Bishop of Exeter. He was 
distinguished for his classical attainments, and published an edition of Cicero's 
Familiar Epistles, and some original tracts on controverted subjects. 

3 Stourhead in Wiltshire. 



OF MRS, DELANY. 1 U 

There is an immense high tower built at the extremity 
of his plantation. calTd Alfred's Tower, on very high 
ground w* overlooks^ the whole country. Mrs. Leveson 

tooi the pains to mount to the top oi' this edifice — 256 
stops. I contented myself with viewing and admiring a 
very extensive prosped from its foot. There is a 
convent in Mr. Eoare's woods thai you wou'd like very 
well ; it has fine painted glass in the windows, and a 
picture w ch belong'd to one of y e altars of Glastonbury 
abbey w ch shuts up with doors, but perhaps, after all, it is 
only an imitation, for I am easily taken in upon these 
occasions and believe implicitly the tales of my ciceronis. 
To day we have been to see Mr. Beckford's Fon thill, 
where you wou'd have been provok'd to see fine Titians 
pell mell with daubings of Capali, or, in sea phrase, 
" alongside of tliem," the mixture of good and bad 
pictures was hideous ! In this place I did not believe my 
ciceroni quite literally, for he shew'cl me an " Adonia" 
with saints, that he said was very fine, and indeed so I 
thought it ; but it was a Madonna, as you have already 
guess'd if indeed you take the pains ever to arrive at 
this 3rd side of inn-paper, inn -pens, and inn-stupidity, 
w ch is passing great after one has been exceedingly 
hungry and eat a very hearty dinner, w ch is at present the 
case of y r humble servant. Thank God we go home to- 
morrow, for my eyes are soon satisfy'd with seeing, and 
I require more tranquility than can be had in a way- 
la ring life, beside that seeing Longleat /■>*$£, I was at first 
tfy'd; persuaded that whatever I saw afterwards 
wou'd not please me so well. The menagerie there is 
delightful! Out of the green wood sally'd so many 
golden birds, so many that had white muslin cloaks over 



142 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

their mourning cloatlis, these you know to be pheasants, 
but there were also many winged families of most re- 
spectable size and beautifull feather, especially Carolina 
ducks, w ch I judg'd to be the Summer duck, so rare and 
beautifull. I shou'd have told you that I spent some 
time upon the roof of the noble mansion of Longleat, 
where I dare say you have often been I and where it was 
very pleasant " biding " last Tuesday, the air being as 
warm as June and as sweet as May. 

Y r most affectionate servant, 

F. Boscawen. 



The Bon. Mrs. Boscaiven to Mrs. Delany. 

Glan Villa, Thursday night, (1783). 

Indeed, my dearest madam, I always love to see your 
handwriting, w ch I desire you not to abuse, and call 
(< pot-hooks," or any ugly names, for if several of my 
friends wrote as well I shou'd not spend so much time 
in discovering their meaning. Mr. Cole's pleasant 
epistles are often obscure, but Lady W Edgcumb's (upon 
Spa-paper) absolutely unfathomable. One I have, that is 
not yet half decypher'd, but luckily the ace* of her safety 
after a most tremendous and ruinous storm, w ch I reced 
to-day with y 1 ' kind favour (both return' d from Badmin- 
ton), is very plain and legible. She tells me they were 
happily lodg'd in the upper part of the town, where the 
inundation 1 did not reach, but in the lower part there 
was a rolling sea, feet deep ; no lives lost, but cattle 



In the magazines of 1783 there are notices of storms and tempests in 
various parts of the Continent, especially at Grenoble. 



OF MRS, DELANY, 148 

many, and furniture. The whole magazine of many 
shops, and the whole substance oi' many families, were 
Boating in the streets. What a calamity I 

My dear ma lam, you know 1 told you 1 had men- 
tioned your friend, Dr. Bowdler 1 to Miss Lambard. I 
think vou will like to hear her answer. Le voici : "Dr. 
Bowdler is much lik'd at Tunbridge, and as the wells 
are amazingly full this year, and mostly on ace* of health, 
1 conclude he must meet with encouragem t . I believe 
Dr. Millman, 8 who is older, and comes strongly re- 
comended, has a largest share of the business ; but these 
two physicians are, I hear, upon the most friendly terms 
imaginable, and that Dr. Bowdler says he only expects 
to succeed Dr. Millman." I shall see Miss Lambard next 
week, and if you have any commands to Dr. Bowdler, 
can convey them. You will be glad to hear the account 
I have given the Duchess of your friend Lady Dow r 
(lower's health and spirits. "We attempted to count her 
magnolia flowers, but that was quite impossible. I have 
19 upon a tree that her lady p bestow'd upon me. I 
spent another evening with Mrs. Montagu on my return, 
at her particular desire, and it was a very agreeable one, 
and an excellent station on my journey. Yours (be- 
tween this and London) is no more, for Mr. Becldng- 
ham has sold it to L d Southampton, 3 and as I don't think 



) Dr. Thomas Bowdler, a physician, was born in 1754 and died in 1825, 
f brother to the well-known Mrs. Frances and Mrs. Harriet Bowdler). He 

was the Author of " Letters g from Holland," and the Editor of " The Family 
Shakspeare." 

- Fran ' v : linan, M.R, Physician to King George III., was created a 
Baronet in the year 18 

teneral Charles Fitzroy, 1st Baron Southampt >n, married, in 1758, Anne, 
daughter and coheir of Admiral Sir Peter Warren. 



144 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

you will be tempted to visit her lady p , so next year you 
will be oblig'd to come thro' in a day, which may cer- 
tainly be accomplish' d, especially as you love moon- 
light. 

Instead of sending this to the post to-day (Friday), as 
I intended, I have kept it to add an account of y r friends 
at Ken Wood. My lady has no remains, I think, of 
St. Ant 8 fire, and is in most perfect health, as are the Miss 
Murray s. My lord, as you know, is in Worcestershire, 
but was expected home this week. L y Charlotte Went- 
worth was there. She had heard that the Neapolitan 
Duke, who is to marry Miss Clavering, is also claim d 
by Miss Caroline Vernon, 1 who has shewn to Miss Co- 
vering's friends the letters he had wrote her, amounting 
to an engagem*. Methinks I wish success to the latter. 

Adieu, my dear madam. We have had a charming 
summer's day. I am quite alone, but here is a cat come 
to keep me company that you would like. She jumps 
up behind my chair, and will not let me write. Be 
quiet, puss, till I have told my dearest Mrs. Delany how 
much and how sincerely I am hers, 

F. B. 



The following letter from Horace Walpole to Miss Hamilton 
lias a claim to insertion from its being addressed to one of Mrs. 
Delany's constant associates, to whose character and benevolent 
disposition he has rendered such ample justice. The letter is 
also in itself intrinsically valuable from the tone of seriousness 
and humanity which pervades it, and which was not usual in 
his correspondence. The Editor has not been able to identify 



1 The Hon. Caroline Vernon, daughter of George, 2nd Lord Vernon, died, 
unmarried, in 1815. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 1 15 

the "poor Louisa," but the allusions to a young woman, a 

lunatic who could not be identified, lead to the supposition that 
the "poor Louisa" who had created so much interest in Miss 

Hamilton ami Mrs, Hannah .Mure was the "Maid of the Hay- 

stav I 

■ i' 'i l „i fa Miss Hamilton, 

Strawberry Hill, Oct. 7th, 1783. 

I have just received, madam, the very obliging favour 
of your letter, and the two melancholy narratives, and do 
not let pass a moment without thanking you. Surely, 
madam, you had no cause for making an apology. I 
ought to make one to you for the trouble I have occa- 
sioned to you, if your excellent and compassionate heart 
could think it a trouble to serve the unfortunate, or to 
oblige those who respect you. 

Two passages in your letter struck me, madam, and I 
fear will create a little more exertion of your obliging 
disposition. You say the poor Louisa is confined, from 
necessity, to a cell — if by necessity is meant the want of 
money, I will most gladly contribute towards removing 
that necessity ; but as she found so much humanity I 
rather imagine that the deplorable state of her mind 
necessarily occasions her confinement to a cell destined, 
to lunatics— but if the former sense is implied, I beg to 
know it, and how I may most speedily relieve her. 

The other passage, madam, is : " What satisfaction, s r , 
will it afford you, if through your means she is at length 
restored to her relations and friends ?" Satisfaction it 
wou'd be a high one indeed — but all, madam, by what 
means can that felicity fall to my lot ! If you can point 
out any method I wou'd joyfully pursue it — tho' I doubt 



146 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

your tenderness would have suggested that method if 
you had conceived it. One question I will take the 
liberty to ask you, as by contracting the sphere of in- 
quiry one might be led nearer to a discovery. Has 
Louisa dropped any hint whether she is a Catholic, a 
Lutheran, or a Calvinist ? Germany is so wide a field 
that without some clue it wou'd be a wild search, espe- 
cially for me who have not a correspondent in all Ger- 
many to commence the pursuit. I am not acquainted 
with the Christian minister, but know a person not y et 
in town who cou'd apply to him ; and I cou'd as indi- 
rectly get queries proposed to other foreign ministers, 
and to some of our own in Germany, or have advertise- 
ments conveyed to them. In short, madam, I wou'd do 
anything in my power, not only from the duty of huma- 
nity, and to please you and Miss More, who have shown 
such engaging benevolence, but from having too intimate 
acquaintance with the misfortune of lunacy, having, 
(besides an instance I will not mention,) two families 
dependent on myself afflicted with that calamity, which 
T know, alas ! is almost hopeless. For poor Louisa, dread- 
ful as her case is to those who attend to it, she perhaps 
is no longer sensible to her misery. For her parents, if 
still living, they, if they can be discovered, may but have 
an affliction, probably skinned over by time, opened 
again, not comforted by finding their child in so wretched 
a state, — that however is not a reason for relaxing in- 
quiry. We are not to set up an hypothesis of our own 
imagination, and shun investigation when positive good 
may be done, and activity not speculation and refinement 
is demanded of us ! We are too apt to numb that acti- 
vity, and indulge our own laziness and want of feeling 



OF MRS. DELANY, 1 IT 

})\ spurious arguments which we cad " common sense? 
They may be common sense, bu1 if it ever is justifiable 
io £ooil sense to ad romantically, it is by being- the 
knights errant to the distressed. Louisa shall he my 

Duleinea, madam, and you shall be the duchess who 
countenances me, and will not, like that insolent great 
nan, make Bporl with the visionary whom she encou- 
i to expose himself, — a character I think it very 
immoral in Cervantes to have exhibited. There was no 
occasion to teach wealth and grandeur to laugh at mis- 
fortunes, which they ought to pity. 

I have the honour to be, with the truest regard, 
Madam, your much obliged and most 
Obedient humble seiV, 

Hor. Walpole. 



Mrs. Delany wrote to Mrs. Frances Hamilton from Bulstrode, 
October 10th, 1783, and gave the following account of one of the 
frequent royal visits : — 

"We have had many visitors for two or three days in 
succession since we left town, and when health has per* 
mitted have enjoyed this delightful place. A few days 
after our arrival here, the Duchess of Portland and I 
were sitting in the long gallery very busy with our dif- 
ferent employments, when, without any ceremony, his 
Majesty walked up to our table ?mperceived and tmknown 
till he came quite close to us. You may believe -we were 
at first a little fluttered, but his courteous manner soon 
made him a welcome guest. He came to inform the 
Duchess of Portland of the Queen's perfect recovery after 
her lying-in, which made him doubly welcome. 



148 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Breakfast was called for, and after a visit of two hours 
the King left us. A week after this, the King and the 
Queen came together, only accompanied by Lady Cour- 
town. They breakfasted, and staid much about the same 
time. The Queen waved the ceremony of enquiry, and 
she desired the Duchess not to come till she received a 
summons, as they were going to St. James's for some 
days. Last Thursday, 2nd of October, a little before 
twelve o'clock, word was brought that " the royal family 
were coming up the park," and immediately after, two 
coaches and six, with the King on horseback, and a 
large retinue, came up to the hall door. The company 
were the King and Queen, Princess Royal, Princess 
Augusta, Princess Elizabeth, Princess Mary, and Prin- 
cess Sophia — a lovely group. They were all dressed in 
white muslin polonises, white chip hats, with white 
feathers, except the Queen, who had on a black hat and 
cloak. The King was in his Windsor uniform of blue 
and gold. The Queen was attended by the Duchess of 
Ancaster (who is mistress of the robes), and Lady 
Elizabeth Waldegrave 1 who attends the two eldest Prin- 
cesses, and Mrs. Goldsworthy who is sub-governess to 
the three younger Princesses. 

The King had no attendants but the equerries, Major 
Digby and Major Price,. They were in the drawing- 
room before I was sent for, where I found the King and 
Queen and Duchess of Portland, seated at a table in the 
middle of the room. The King, with his usual gracious- 
ness, came up to me and brought me forward, and I 



1 Lady Elizabeth Waldegrave, daughter of John, 3rd Earl Waldegrave. 
She married, April, 1791, James, 5th Earl of Cardigan, and died 1823. 



OF Mi;s. DBLANY. 1 \2 

found the Queen very busy in showing a very elegant 
machine to the Duchess of Portland, a frame for weaving 
fringe of a new and most delicate structure; it would 
take up as much paper as lias already been written upon 
to describe it minutely, vet it is of such simplicity as to 
be very useful. Sou will easily imagine the grateful 
feeling I had when the Queen presented it to me, to 
make up some knotted fringe which she saw me about. 
The King at the same time said he "must contribute 
something- to my work," and presented me with a gold 
knotting shuttle 1 of most exquisite workmanship and 
taste ; and I am at this time, while dictating, knotting 
white silk to fringe the bag which is to contain it. 

On the Monday alter Ave were appointed to go to the 
Lodge at Windsor at two o'clock. We w T ere first taken 
into the Duchess of Ancaster's dressing-room ; in a 
quarter of an hour after to the King and Queen in the 
drawing-room, who had nobody with them but Prince 
Alverstaden, the Hanoverian minister, which gave me 
an opportunity of hearing the Queen speak German; 
and I may say it was the first time I had received plea- 
sure from what I did not understand, but there was such 
a fluency and sweetness in her manner of speaking it, 
that it sounded as gentle as Italian. 

There were two chairs brought in for the Duchess of 
Portland and myself to sit on, (by order of their Majes- 
ties,) which were easier chairs than those belonging to 
the room. We were seated near the door that opened 
to the concert-room. The King directed them to play 
Handel and Geminiani's music, which he was graciously 



This knotting shuttle is in the Editor's possession. 



150 LIFE AND COBRESPONDENCE 

pleased to say was to gratify me. These are flattering 
honours, and I should not indulge so much upon this 
subject, but that I depend upon your believing it pro- 
ceeds more from gratitude than vanity. The 3 eldest 
Princesses came into the room in about half an hour 
after we were seated. All the royal family were dressed 
in a uniform for the demi-saison, of a violet blue armozine, 
with gauze aprons, &c, &c. The Queen had the addition 
of a great many fine pearls. 

When the concert of music was over, the young Prin- 
cess Amelia, nine weeks old, was sent for, and brought in 
by her nurse and attendants. The King took her in his 
arms and presented her to the Duchess of Portland and 
to me. Your affectionate heart would have been delighted 
with this royal domestic scene. We were at Bulstrode 
before five, and very well after our expedition. I am 
afraid you will be much more tired than we were in 
travelling through this long naration, but if it affords 
any amusement to our dear friend Mrs. Anne Hamilton, 1 
as well as to yourself, it will give much satisfaction to 
my dear Mrs. P. Hamilton's 

Most affectionate and obliged friend, 

M. Delany. 

Continue your kind offices to the friends I must always 
esteem in Ireland. 



1 Eldest daughter of the Hon. Henry Hamilton, son of G-ustavus, 1st 
Viscount Boyne. 



OF MKS. DELANY. 151 



The following extracts are taken from the Diary of Miss Ha- 
milton, (afterwards Mrs. Dickenson of Toxall,) during a visit at 
Bulstrode. 

The Editor is indebted to the kindness of Sir John Anson l 
for permission to make use o( this Diary, as well as for the letter 
ot Horace Walpole to Miss Hamilton, and for the correspondence 
betwi Hamilton and Mrs. Delany. 

The record which has thus boon preserved of a whole month 
of the life of Mrs. Delany, spent at Tmlstrode, in her 84th year, 
is particularly interesting, and the tone of simple truth of diffi- 
dence in herself, and respect and attachment for Mrs. Delany, 
which pervades Miss Hamilton's remarks, leave a high impression 
of the character and disposition of the writer, and is a refreshing 
contrast to the Diary of Madame d'Arblay. 

Miss Hamilton's Diary. 

Bulstrode. Wednesday, Dec. 3rd, 1783. 

Got up a little after 8 ; a great fog w ch made y e morn- 
ing appear dark ; had my hair dress'd for y c day, though 
I put on as usual for y c morning a riding habit j sent as 
d (as favourite a word this in my journal as tf'c, but 
my ccc.'s are more expressive as they often mean w fc I do 
not chose to trust to paper) to enquire how d r Mrs. De- 
lany had pass'd y c night. At f past 9, y e breakfast 
hour, she sent for me to breakfast ; when we are alone, 
we always breakfast in her dressing room j found her in 
spirits, and looking vastly better. A letter from Lady 



1 Sir John William Hamilton Anson, Bart., of Birch Hull, county Lancaster, 
son of General Sir William Anson, G.C.B., younger brother of the 1st Viscount 
Anson. The mother of the present Sir John Hamilton Anson was Louis.t 
Frances Mary, only child of John Dickenson, Esq. and Mary Hamilton (the 
of the above diary), only child of Charles Hamilton, Esq., son and heif 
of Lord Archibald Hamilton, seventh son of William, 3rd Duke of Hamilton, 



152 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Wake (the letters are always brought w th y e breakfast- 
things) ; read part of its contents to her. She related to 
me the history (and indeed it was a curious one) of her 
marriage w th Mr. Pendarvis, her first husband ; his com- 
ing to her uncle's at Long Leate, &c, &c. I left her at h 
past 1 o'clock ; came to my room ; y e Dss sent as usual 
her chambermaid w th enquiries. Ab* 12 Mrs. Delany 
came to me and brought y e newspapers ; I read them to 
her. One of y e Dss's footmen came to enquire if I chose 
to ride ? I said I w d if y e fog dispersed ; y e Dss sent us a 
comical message ab* seeing y e moon, which proved to be 
y e sun, struggling thro' y e fog. I went to y e library, and 
Mrs. D. came to me ; we went into y e drawing-room ; I 
read to her some of Mrs. Fenton's Essays on y e days of 
y e week. Y e Dss join'd us about 1 o'clock, and brought 
me drawings of Lady Weymouth's from y e Chinese to 
look over ; they were highly finish 'd. I read to them y e 
third and last letter of Mr. [illegible], l account of y e lakes 
of Cumberland. The Dss was then so good as to give 
me a book of drawings to look at of Mr. Levers, her 
Grace's house steward, and of Mr. Agnew, y e gardener, 
of shells, birds, &c, &c. We parted but not till just 
dinner time. I changed my riding skirt, and put on my 
habit again, and after dinner Mrs. D. went to her room ; 
the Dss and I sat together till she came up again in half 
an hour, and y e Dss brought me a large collection of 
seals — to take impressions from. I finished y e 2 d vol. oi 
Evelina and my letter to Miss Gunning ; went to supper 
about \ past 1 0, and conversed (as we have dumb waiters 
and no servants to wait at supper) ab fc y e King and Wind- 



1 This name looks like Suities. 



OF MB& DELANT. 153 

sor Castle, Dowg, Lady Carlisle s being come to Eng- 
land, and anecdotes of her, &c, &c. ; and parted J- past 11. 
J dining-room screen is brought for me to repair. 

Deo. -1th, 178& Thursday. 

Found d r ^Irs. Delany in good look and spirits when 
1 went to breakfast ; sat w* her from \ past 9 till \ of 
eleven. She related to me the beginning and end of her 
acquaintance \\' h Miss Hawley, d r of Lord Hawley (l)al- 
housie), Wyndham, Mr. Pendarvis, Pss Caroline, the 
Leicester House family. The Dss sent as usual (when I 
left Mrs. D.) ; y e horse and groom were ready, y e morning 
heavenly, y e sun bright — took a most delightful ride ; 
met Mrs. ])., who was going to take y e air, stop'd and 
offered her to go on in y° carriage ; she w d not let me ; 
pursued my ride ; came in 20 min. after 12 ; Mrs. D. pro- 
mised to come to me in my room ; told me she had 
walk'd for half an hour, &c. I came to my room, found 
upon my table a work bag w tb a paper upon it, import- 
ing it " came by y e air balloon from Paris ;" also some 
fine myrtle in a tumbler of water. I ran to Mrs. Delany 
to thank her for her gallantrie ; she then came with me 
to my room. The Dss of Portland came to us, told us 
how happy she was, having rec d a letter from Lady Wey- 
mouth to say she would come to her on Saturday ; she 
is obliged to come from Long Leate, y e Queen having no 
lady to attend her. Lady Holdernesse is attending 
Lady Conyers, who is dying of a consumption ; the Dss 
of Argyle in Scotland; Lady Egremont and Lady Effing- 
ham attending Miss Ellis, who is dying ; and Lady Pem- 
broke abroad w th Lady Herbert, her daughter, who is 
ill, &c. Mrs. Delany and y c Dss left me ; they went to 

part ir. — vol. in. M 



154 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

take an airing. At two o'clock Mrs. Del any sent for me 
to eat oysters w th her in her room ; went ; she told me 
y e Dss and herself during their airing had only talk'd of 
me — and "in my favour " she was so good to say. I 
requested she w d tell me if she ever perceived anything 
wrong in my conduct, my expressions, or my manners, 
and desired her to tell me if she did not think y e Dss w d 
wish to have me go when L dy Weymouth came ? She 
assured she thought y e Dss would not on any account 
part w th me before Tuesday, but that she w d tell her 
what I said. We went upstairs to y e Dss in y e draw- 
ing-room ; y e Dss brought me some of y e late Mrs. 
Wright's work to look at — a bird in worsted and flowers 
in silk on w* sattinn, and gave me also y e additional cata- 
logue of y e pictures, &c. I read till 4 in Evelina, then 
ran down and had my hair done in a J of an hour j re- 
turn'd to y e d r room ; found Mrs. Delany alone ; we 
look'd and saw two hares close to y e house eating ; y e 
moon shone bright. Mrs. D. told me she had mention'd 
to y e Dss what I said ab* going, that y e Dss would not 
listen to it, and that she beg'd her to assure me she 
wish'd me to stay. Y e Dss came ; we went to dinner J 
past 4 o'clock ; after dinner our converse was relative to 
beggars ; y e Dss said how wrong it was to encourage 
those poor who beg'd in y e streets in London ; when we 
left y e dining-room Mrs. Delany staid a few minutes ; 
Mrs. D. then went to her room to repose, and y e Dss 
and I had an interesting conversation. After tea I 
read in Evelina till 10 o'clock. After supper y e conver- 
sation was upon different subjects : Lady A. Hamilton, 
Lady M. Cooley, her daughter, &c. ; when Mrs. Delany 
was gone to her room after dinner, y e Duchess not 



OF hOtS. DELANY. 155 

only press'd me to stay and not think of going when 
lfi Weymouth came, but earnestly entreated me to 
remain with her and Mrs. Delany till they went to 

town, and she said w ,h tears : ' k Perhaps we may not 
have \ comfort (A' meeting again — think of if age of my 
friend!" 

Balbtrode, Dec 5th, IT 

Weni io dear Mrs. Delany at | past 9 ; she was pretty 
well. She told me how extremely bappy I had made 
her and the Dss, by my consent to stay till they went to 
town. Repeated how happy she was in seeing y e affec- 
tion y c Dss had taken for me, and how much they both 
loved me, and how certain they both were that I did and 
ever should merit y v affection of every one who knew me. 
I hope I may ever really merit, and endeavour to deserve 
such encomiums ! How truly flattering the praise of this 
venerable and most amiable of women ! I left her soon 
alter breakfast ; came to my room ; dress'd for y° day, as 
we were (Mrs. D. and me) to go to Admiral Forbes's at 
Chalfont ; but y e fog did not disperse in time, and we did 
not go. The Dss sent her pretty messenger, as usual to 
inquire how I had slept? &c. Mrs. Delany came and 
invited me to go with her and sit in the drawing-room. 
She brought y c papers, 1 read a few paragraphs to her. 
She then left me, said she hoped to meet me in y e 
drawing-room. Mrs. Woodward, y c housekeeper, then 
came and invited me to see her room and her store rooms, 
and I followed her. She show'd me her rooms, her 
china closets, her linnen presses, her stores, &c. &c. \ 
offered me anything I chose to eat of cakes or sweet- 
meats. &c. I took some orange cakes to please her. 
She g rs, and a peacock's feather to keep and 



156 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

use as a mark in a book to remember her by ; she said a 
thousand civil things to me. I saw also y e steward's 
room, w ch is large, and here the upper servants dine ; it 
appear 'd to be hung round with pictures, but I did not 
stay to examine them. 

Went to y e drawing-room, where dear Mrs. Delany 
was ; she had her spinning wheel and her table, 
and I my little table and fringe knotting, &c. She 
gave me the character of y e late Lady Burlington, 
and that of her lovely and unfortunate daughter, who 
was married to Lord Euston, son to y e Duke of Grafton, 
one of the most horrid wretches I ever heard of; his 
conduct towards his beautiful amiable wife being brutal. 
About 1 o'clock y e Duchess join'd us ; but as she had 
business to transact could not remain with us long. 
She made us two or three flying visits before dinner. At 
2 o'clock Mrs. Delany and I went to her room to eat 
oysters. We went to dinner about \ past 4 o'clock ; 
when we came out of y e dining-room we had a hearty 
laugh, and run a race ! Y e Dss gained her point how- 
ever, and Mrs. D. went to her room to take her siesta. 
The Dss was so obliging to read to me out of some 
miscelaneous MSS., chiefly remarks on Burnet's History 
written by y e present Lord Dartmouth's grandfather. 
He gave them to y e Dss to transcribe from y e original. 
These remarks proved that Burnet was influenced too 
often by party spirit. Among other things she read me 
were two anecdotes relating to y e Czar. Charles y e 2nd 
paid him a visit ; unfortunately a favorite monkey of y e 
Czar's was in y e room, who took into his head to be vastly 
affronted because y e king looked at him, and he endea- 
vour'd to revenge y e affront, by grinning and jumping 



OV MRS. DEI. ANY. lf>7 

upon him: so the whole conversation that pass'd was 
in making apologies to his Majesty, &c. The Czar had 
a desire to see y° King at y c House of Lords, and hear 
y e speeches ; but did not chuse to be seen. He there- 
fore wvnt upon y" leads of y° house and look'd through 
the windows; he soon caught y° eyes of y° King and 
lords, and they not being able to resist laughing at the 
ridiculous figure he made, he soon retired. At 7, tea. 
Alter tea 1 road Evelina, which I finished, and at ten 
o'clock y e Dss went to her room to finish a letter to 
Mrs. Boscawen, and tell her we had gone through E : 
y e book she had desired us to read, &C. 1 

Conversation after supper was relative to Miss F — ding, 
her manners, &c, &c. 

6th Dec, 1783. Bullstrode. 

At \ past 9 went to Mrs. Delany's room, found her 
pretty well ; letter from Miss Gunning ; soon after ten 
came to my room ; y e Dss's message as usual. Mrs. 
Delany came to me at 11, and desired me to accompany 
her to her room, as she had received letters w ch alas ! her 
eyes were not in a state to read. Tho' I felt much 
honoured by the confidence she placed in me, my heart 
ach'd to think she was obliged to make use of mine- I 



1 Miss Hamilton mentions having read Evelina on successive evenings after 
tea, and records having " finished" Evelina 5th Dec. 1783, and the Duchess of 
Portland having written that evening to Mrs. Boscawen to say that they had 

" gone through E. the book she had desired them to read." There is not one 
of encomium repeated on the part of the Duchess of Portland, whose un- 
l compliments to Miss Burney will be remembered to have been 
recorded in Madame d'Arblav's Diary as having been uttered in reference to her 
novels twelve months previously, and especially with regard to Evelina, of 
which the Duchess of Portland M said to have uttered the following words, 
" Of the morality of the book (cried the Duchess) we shall indeed now give 
Miss Barney her due, so striking, so pure, so genuine, so instructive 1 1" 



158 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

read her letters ; in one, w ch was from her eldest nephew, 
Mr. Dewes, who lately spent a week here, there was 
these lines: — "My respects to Miss H n ; I hope she 
is still at Bulstrode, — her sprightliness will chase away 
any lowness of spirits you may have ; wherever she is, sor- 
row can surely make no long abode." I was pleased with his 
rememberance of me, for he is an excellent worthy man. 

I also read the newspapers to her, and then she 
insisted upon my going to take a walk ; I obeyed — for 
is it possible to refuse obeying her dictates ? I went to 
y e Grotto, w ch ivas made by Mrs. Delany ; I sat in it for 
some time and enjoy 'd the calm serenity of the scene 
around me here ; and I thought of all those whom I loved, 
of every one whose friendship I was so happy to enjoy ! 
When I return'd I fed the peacocks and guinea fowls, 
who follow'd me — every bird and animal in this place, of 
w ch there are a great variety, are tame and sociable. I 
went then to Mrs. Delany to give an account of my 
walk. Came to my room and began to dress ; whilst 
my hair was dressing the Duchess came to me ; I sent 
B out of the room ; she staid \ of an hour. 

Soon after she left me Mrs. D. came ; she told me as 
I was not dress'd she would order the serv ts to bring the 
oysters (w ch she eats at 2 o'clock) to be brought in my 
room. She (as did the Duchess) said many kind things 
to Betty. As y e upper servants dine at 2, Betty left me 
soon after y e servants brought y e oysters and laid y e 
napkin in my dressing-room. I was obliged to receive 
Mrs. Delany en robe de chambre, and after we had 
finish our goute she left me. I finish'd dressing, and I 
remained in my room till the dinner-bell rung, because 
I thought it right not to intrude before the Dss had had 



OF MRS. DBLANY. 159 

1 i i no to Bpeak io Lady Weymouth, who was expected. 
Al)' 5 o'clock 1 wenl up and mei Mrs. Delany in y e 
gallery; we wont into y" drawing-room and found y° 
Dss and Lady Weymouth, whom J was glad to see; 
she is attentive and polite towards me, and always lias 
been bo. We went i<> dinner; the common chit chat 
of the great world was y c conversation. As soon as we 
came out of y' dining-room 1 went to my own room, for 
I though! y Dss and Lady Weymouth might wish to be 
together, and Mrs. D. wont as usual to her room. Mrs. 
Delany came to me i before 7. At 7 Mr. Keys (the 
groom of the chambers) told us tea was ready ; we had 
each our little table, our candles, and work; conversed 
upon the news of y° day — fashions, dress, &c, &c. ^ 
before ten came to my room to leave y° ladies at liberty 
to talk without any restraint, for nothing marks igno- 
rance, want of due propriety and respect more than for a 
j / mm ger person not to pay proper deference and respect 
when she ought to show she knows it is not right ever 
to appear an intruder, &c, &c. 

AV \ past ten y c g. of y e c. came and told me supper 
was ready. I went to y e d. room ; we soon after went to 
supper, and sat till near 1 2 ; conversation was y e melan- 
choly situation of poor Lady Cooke, y e air balloons, &c, 
&e. Mrs. Delany retired to her room ; I made y e excuse 
of attending her, and left Lady W. and her mother 
together. Mrs. D. told me they probably w d sit talking 
till 2 or 3 in y c morning. 

Dec br 7 th , Sunday, 1783. Bullstrode. 

At \ past nine the serv* call'd me to breakfast ; went 
to Mrs. Delany's room. I did not think she appear'd 



100 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

quite so well this morning ; but her spirits were better 
before I left her. Mrs. Delany came to me before 1 1 
and proposed a walk ; I readily attended her ; we were 
out above an hour. We went first to y e greenhouse, 
w ch forms one wing of the house ; in an enclosure before 
it are many beautiful birds, some fine peacocks, remark- 
able pretty bantams, &c, and two grues or Numidian 
cranes ; these cranes have been here upwards of 30 years 
— they are so tame that they came hopping to us, and 
eat bread out of our hands ; these birds have a singular 
method of jumping and dancing when they are pleased ; 
it is really quite laughable to see the odd capers w ch they 
cut. We then went to y e Grotto, and Mrs. D. told me 
what a source of amusement the forming it had been to 
her, it having been entirely form'd by her directions ; 
she began it just after y e death of her loved sister (ab 1 
y e year 1759 1 ). When we return'd from our walk we 
separated. I begun y e 2 ud sheet of my letter to Lady 
Wake. Lady Weymouth came to my window ; I went 
out to meet her, and Mrs. D. joined us ; but when she 
found we had taken our walk she pursued hers alone, 
and I return'd to my room in a \ of an hour. Mrs. D. 
came for me to go w th her upstairs, as she heard Mr. 
Lightfoot, the chaplain, was come ; we sat together for 
some time in y e d r room ; y e Dss and Lady Weymouth 
joined about 1 o'clock, and we went to chapel — the 
chapel is at y e end of y e gallery. Mr. L. preach'd a 
sensible discourse, but it did not please me so well as 
that of last Sunday ; it grew tedious, and was spun out 
too long. After chapel he join'd us in y e gallery ; told 



1 This date is an error ; Ann Granville (Mrs. Dewes) died 17G1. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 1(51 

me he had Been S l \Y m Hamilton, <ve. in London. Y° 
Dss and Mrs. Delany wont to their rooms. Lady Wey- 
mouth detained me, told me liow happy she was that I 
was to remain here till her mot her went to town, and 
added many kind things ; y° Dss coming put an end 
to our conversation ; \' Dsfl desired I would not alter my 
dress ; 1 left them, and Mrs. Delany sent for me to eat 
oysters w lh her, w* she always does between breakfast 
and dinner. I staid w Ul her till 3 o'clock ; wrote to Miss 
Gunning ; at four y e groom of y e chambers came for me, 
as y e bell was going to ring for dinner ; went to y e 
drawing-room ; y e Dss, Lady W., and Mrs. D. already 
there. About \ past 4 went to dinner ; Lady Weymouth 
gave us an account of a famous Automaton, y c chess- 
player ' now to be seen in London, &c, &c, &c. 

Soon after we returned to y e drawing room. I left the 
ladies to have their coffee and their own converse ; went 
into y e library to look for a book y e Dss wanted to shew 
me something in — S r W m Temple's memoirs ; had not time 
to look for it before Mr. Keys came and told me tea was 
ready : met Mrs. Woodward, y e housekeeper, who said a 
number of civil things to me. After tea till supper, we 
had each of us our little table and candles, books of 
prints, the conversation very agreeable — " from grave to 
gay," but not also as the poet adds "from lively to severe ;" 
went to supper ab l \ past 10. Converse during and 
after supper — Mrs. Siddons, former actors and actress's, 
anecdotes concerning them ; the attachment of dogs 
— some stories of them, &c. Mrs. D. and I 'left y e Dss 



2 The famous Automaton Chess Player is mentioned hy Horace Walpole as 
occupying the attention of the fine world in London at this time. 



1G2 



LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



and Lady Weymouth \ before 12. I attended Mrs. D. 
to her room, sent Betty to bed, and sat up and read for 
an hour in Bishop Patrick's Pilgrim. 

8th Dec, 1783. Bullstrode. 

The ser vt came for me at \ past 9 ,• went to Mrs. 
Delany, she had not had a good night but I thought 
she appear'd better than yesterday morning. We 
talked of the E. family. Mrs. Delany said how 
cautious young women should be what society they 
enter' d into, and particularly w th whom they appeared 
in public ; told me an anecdote of herself when she was 
young and first married to Mr. Pendarvis ; gave me 
an account of " the Hell Fire club," w ch consisted of ab* 
a dozen persons of fashion of both sexes, some of y e 
females unmarried, and the horrid impieties these were 
guilty of; they used to read and ridicule y e Scriptures, 
and their conversation was blasphemous to y e last degree ; 
they used to act plays, some represented y e Virgin Mary. 
The character of one of y e members of this club, a 
Mr. Howe, and an account of his death, w ch Dr. Priend 1 
(who attended him) gave Mrs. D. y e day he died. He was 
at his mother's, who had apartments at Somerset House. 
Mrs. D.. was in S. house, dining w th her aunt Lady Stanley. 
Dr. Priend, the physician, came to them quite overcome 
w th y e horrid scene he had just quitted ; said he left this 
miserable wretch expiring, uttering the most horrid im- 
precations, and tho'* denying his belief of everything 
sacred, said he knew he should burn in hell for ever ! 



1 Dr. John Freind, a learned physician and writer on medical science, born 
in 1675. In 1723 he was sent to the Tower on suspicion of being concerned in 
Atterbury's plot, but was soon released on bail. At the accession of Ceorfe II. 
he was appointed Physician to the Queen, and died in 1728. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 1,;; > 

Mrs. Delany then gave me the history of a Bister of this 
man's; sin 4 was a woman of virtue and good principles, 
but unfortunately for her conceived a violeni attachment 
to a Sir. Lowther, one of the handsomest men of the 
times, bui aperfeci Lothario; they had opportunities of 
being much together, and he attach'd himself to her tho' 
Bhe was a very plain young woman, but his vanity was 
gratified in having raised so strong a passion in Jicr 
breast. She thought her love returned ; y'' most passion- 
ate letters pass'd between them, and their pictures ex- 
changed, &c. ; he at length grew tired of and neglected 
her, and openly addressed another woman. Miss Howe 
— (the wretched Miss Howe) — after having used every 
endeavour to recall his affection, became almost frantic 
with despair. She run away one morning from Hampton 
Palace (where the Court then was, — she was maid of honor 
1 1 > y e Pss of Wales, afterwards Queen Caroline) and came 
and laid herself at y e door of Mr. Lowther's house in 
Pall Mall, acting a thousand wild extravagancies ; this of 
course soon attracted a crowd of spectators. A gentle- 
man who lived at an opposite house saw this unhappy 
woman, and knowing who she was, he humanely went to 
her, and with y e assistance of his servants carried her to his 
house ; here she fell into strong convulsions and soon ap- 
peared to have lost her reason, w cb now was totally gone ; 
her friends were sent for, who took her home, and not 
long after she died raving mad. Notwithstanding y e 
lady to whom Mr. Lowther paid his addresses was made 
acquainted w lh this story, she married him soon after 
Mi>s Howe's deatli ! 

Ab l \ past 10 came to my room and receiv'd the Dss 
daily message of kind enquiry ; wrote till 12 ; returned to 
Mrs. Delany, but finding Lady Weymouth with her I did 



164 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

not stay ; took a walk, went as far as y e Grotto. Stop'd at 
Mrs. Delany's window, she desired me to come to her ; 
the King and the Queen, Pss Royal, Pss Augusta, and 
Pss Elizabeth were come upon a visit. I sat w th Mrs. 
Delany till their Majesties sent for her. She gave me 
some verses w ch her maid Mrs. Astley had written upon 
her last birthday, they are not without merit and seemed 
written from y e heart. When Mrs. D. left me I staid 
some time in her room to practise spinning, in which I 
made some proficiency, and ab l \ past two went to my 
room, wrote a note to Miss Goldsworthy, and one to 
Miss Planta, w ch I sent to y e Queen's footman to take to 
Windsor. I then begun to cut out y e pasteboard for a 
Chinese paper lantern which I want to imitate. At \ 
past 3 sat down to have my hair dress'd, their Majesties 
went about that time. Mrs. Delany then sent for me to 
eat oysters. I had just finish' d when she came for me, 
I followed her to her room. (NB. Her room is ab* 80 
feet from mine, in a straight line indeed, but so often 
does she trot to and fro, and that at y e age of 84, that it 
makes me often blush at my own lazyness.) She told 
me all the news she had heard, w 1 y e King and y e Q. said, 
but she was not in my opinion much y e better for this 
visit as she look'd fatigued and heated. The Duchess 
sent me an apology for not waiting upon me as she had 
not seen me all y e day, but she was so fatigued that I 
must excuse her, &c. Ab 1 5 o'clock we went to dinner ; 
conversation after dinner ab* y e Princess's, &c. ; came to 
my room as soon as we left y e dining-room, to leave y e 
Dss and Lady Weymouth together. I attended Mrs. 
D. to y e end of y e gallery ; she was I thought much ex- 
hausted, had exerted herself too much, and went to take 
her repose. Staid in my room till 7, when I was called 



OF MRS. DELANT. 165 

to tea. We had all our tables and work. T road Miss *- 
More's epistle to Mrs. Vesey to Lady Weymouth, and 
conversed till £ past 9 j Mad™ de Grenlis, Mon r de Luc, 
the Wilmots were our topios. The Dss went to her 
apartments to write letters, I left Lady W. and Mrs. 
Delany, as I thought they might wish to have a little 
private converse. The Duchess shew'd us some curious 
fungus's this afternoon, one particularly so, w ch came from 
y e Bois de Boulogne. Heard that Lady Conyers is 
dying, they say she is a sincere penitent, 1 Her mother 
Ladv Holderness is in great affliction. 

The Dow r Lady Carlisle 2 is come to England to y e great 
distress of many who formerly knew her. 

Mr. AV m Legg's (groom to y c Prince of Wales) gone 
to Nice, they think he cannot recover. 

Poor Lady Pembroke in great affliction, her only 
daughter Lady Harriot Herbert being given over by the 
physician at Nice. 

Duke of Devonshire ill and going to Bath, y e Dss is 
to accompany him, she was otherwise to have staid 
with Dow r Lady Spencer at St. Alban's till her child was 
wean'd, w cb will be next March. 

D r Lady Spencer is to mourn two years, and remain at 
St. Albans. Lord Spencer has added 1000 p r an. to her 
joynture, she has now 4000 p r an., she has in consequence 



1 Amelia, Baroness Conyers, only child of Robert, Baron Conyers, 4th Earl 
of Holderness ; m., in 1773, Francis, Marquess of Carmarthen (afterwards 5th 
Duke of Leeds), from whom she was divorced in 1779, and m. Captain 
John Byron, father of Lord Byron, the poet. The Baroness Conyers died 26th 
Jan., 1" 

2 Isabel, daughter of William, 4th Baron Byron, and w. of Henry, 4th Earl 
of Carlisle ; m. 2ndly, Dec. 11, 1750, Sir Wm. Mus^ravc, of Hayton Castle, in 
Cumberland, Bart, of Nova Scotia, well known among the literati. She died 
1795. 



16fi LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

*•* given up all the personals, &c. the late Lord had left 
her, &c, &c. 

Return'd to y e drawing-room at 10. Y e Duchess 
desired me to write for her to D r Lind to invite him to 
call here before she went to London, w ch I did ; at \ past 
10 we went to supper, — conversation relative to that 
wicked wretch Mr. F g. 

iW 12 o'clock Mrs. I). and I left y e Dss and her 
daughter in the gallery, met Mr. Keys, who told me he 
should go to Windsor to-morrow morn g , desired him to 
call at y e Lower Lodge to enquire after y e ladies, and at 
Lady C. Finche's ; he told me poor old Weaver was 
dead, he died two days ago. 

I went with Mrs. Delany to her room, she gave me 
her blessing, and I went |o mine. 

Bulstrocle. Tuesday, Dec. 9th, 1783. 

Had my hair dress'd in y e morning for all day ; at J 
past 9 Mrs. Delany sent for me to breakfast ; rec d letters, 
one from Mrs. Carter, read some passages from them to 
Mrs. Delany. Mr. Levers, y e house steward, came to me 
and brought y e chimney-board he had made for y e library, 
w ch I had promised y e Dss to cover w th prints ,• had some 
talk w th him, he promised to shew me his drawings some 
morn g , &c. Mrs. Delany came to me ; I began to repair 
a beautiful chimney-board of her doing in color'd paper, 
vases, antique figures, &c. She did not stay long. I 
pasted till J past 10. Mrs. Delany and Lady Wey- 
mouth came to me, y e latter took her leave of me, she 
was going to town. Mrs. Delany return'd to me after 
she had seen Lady W. set out, had her reel brought into 
my room, and wound off her yarn while I went on re- 
pairing y e screen. Mrs. Delany desired me to read a 
letter she rec d from Mr. Bernard Dewes* Mrs. Wood- 



OF MBS. DBLANY. l i! < 

ward, y 1 ' housekeeper, came to ask me it' I w d have a maid 
sleep in y e nerl room fcomenoy/ Betty was gone (to town), 
and other civil offers. Mrs. A.stley came, and we made 
her read y aewspapers to us. Mrs. Delany came for me 
at i past one to come into y fl drawing-room, as Mr. 
B ant was come; I weni ; he staid till 3 o'clock; the 
conversation turn'd upon y'' famous Duchess of Marl- 
brongh ; among others, one striking anecdote, that 
though she appear'd affected in highest degree aty c death 
of her granddaughter, y e Dss of Bedford, she sent y e day 
after she died for the jewels she had given her, saying 
"she had only lent if 1 ;" y answer was that she "had 
said she would never demand those jewels again except 
she danced at court,'" her answer was " then she w d be — ■ — 
if she w d not dance at court, &c." She behaved in y e 
most extravagant manner, her grief notwithstanding 
most violent in appearance. She was found one day lying 
prostrate upon y e ground, and a lady who went to see 
her (who told this to y c Dss of Portland) had like to 
have fallen over her, y e room being dark. Y c D. of M. 
said she was praying, and that she lay thus upon y e 
ground, being too wicked to kneel. When her son died, 
who was a fine promising youth, at the university, her 
grief was unbounded ; her vanity was wounded, y e future 
hope of an ambitious mind was destroy'd. She used by 
way of mortification and a mark of affliction to dress her- 
si-ll" like a beggar, and sit w th some miserable wretches in 
the cloisters at Westminster Abbey. Y c Dss of Portland 
said thai y" D Vcl (her husband) had often seen her during 
this mourning of hers when he was a boy at West- 
minster School. She used to say that she was very cer- 

1 Duke of Portland. 



168 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

tain she should go to heaven, and as her ambition went 
even beyond y e grave, that she knew she should have one 
of y e highest seats. Many other anecdotes were told, 
and y e Duchess shew'd us some original letters written 
to her grandfather, Mr. Harley, reign of Queen Anne, 
by the famous Lord Bolingbroke andy e Dss of M. Those 
of Lord B. were witty and impious, and full of y e most 
flattering encomiums, &c. Mrs. Delany said she remem- 
ber'd Lord Bolingbroke's person, that he was handsome, 
had a fine address, but he was a great drinker, and swore 
terribly. She remember'd his coming once to her uncle 
S r John Stanley's at Northend, his being very drunk, 
and going to y e greenhouse, where he threw himself upon 
a couch ; a message arrived to say he was waited for at y e 
Council ; he rous'd himself, snatch'd up his green bag of 
paper, and flew to business. 

Mr. Bryant told us that the people used to say no 
man ever was so early and so active as Lord B. when he 
was in place. Y e truth was that he used to sit up 
drinking all night, and not having been in bed, he used 
to put a wet napkin on his forehead and eyes to cool the 
heat and headache occasioned by his intemperance, and 
then he appear'd and attend'd to business with as much 
ease as if he lived y e most temperate life ! Mr. Bryant 
talk'd a good deal of Mrs. Viger, 1 who died a few months 
ago at Windsor, aged 83, w th all her faculties unimpaired, 
gave us her character, and told us a good anecdote. At 



i Mrs. Vigor's curious history, as given by Mrs. Delany, has appeared in 
the preceding part of this work. — " Died in September, 1783, at Windsor, 
Mrs. Vigor, aged ^84. This lady was married, first, to Thomas Ward, Esq., 
Consul-General of Russia in 1731 ; second, to Claudius Bondeau, Esq., resident 
at that Court, where she wrote those truly original Russian Letters published 
by Dodsloy (without her name) in 1775." 



OF MBS. DELANY. 169 

y" levee a few days ago Mr. Hamilton, Lord Abercorn's 
heir (is just come from abroad) was talking there to a 
gentleman; Lord North stood next him. Lord N. was 
speaking o( j* quarrel of Mr. Flood andGrattan in y° 

Irish house, and said, " 'tis impossible it can end so — 
they must fight" "Oh," said Mr. 1L, "there will be a 
coalition, and they will be made Secretaries of State." 
Air balloons next talk'd of, and y° 2 men who had been 
3000 feet in y c air, &c. &c. When Mr. B. went, I went 
to my room ; finish' d Mrs. D.' screen, and begun y c medhj 
one after dinner. Mrs. D. reposed in y e Dss room ; y° 
Dss and I look'd over prints in a folio ; she gave me 
some out for the board I am doing. Mr. Keys brought 
me a note from Miss Plant a and Miss Golds worthy from 
Windsor ; he had been with y e Dss's usual enquiries after 
their Majesties. After tea I read, and begun y e answer to 
y e Dss of Marlborough's account, memoirs supposed to be 
written by y e late Dss of Queensbury. Wrote a letter 
to W m Benn and Mrs. Jackson ; to y c first about a plan to 
go to St. Vincent, &c. to go w tb Mr. Ash well, (Mrs. 
Astley's cousin.) Supper ab* i past 10; separated ab l 
\ past 11 ; sat up till one doing my screen. 
10th. 

Mrs. Astley came and assisted me in dressing; went 
to Mrs. Delany, found her not well. A letter from my 
uncle to say he c d not come to Bullstrode, as he heard y° 
King was to invite him to Windsor. Conversation at b. 
ab 1 Lady Congers and Mrs. Delany ; talk'd of education; 
Mrs. D. and I took an airing in y c park for an hour ; 
she talk'd much of Mr. Dews, wish'd him to marry. 
Y c Dss came to me, and look'd at my work, y e screen, 
&c. soon after she left me Mrs. Delany sent for me 

PART II. — VOL. III. N 



170 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

to her dressing-room, shew'd me works of her doing, 
pictures, &c, till we were told prayer bell was rung. 
Met Mrs. Delany in y e gallery. Mr. Lightfoot gave 
notice there w a be a sacrament next Sunday. After 
chapel Mr. L. came up, staid a little in y e gallery, look- 
ing over some new fungus's y e gardener had found ; went 
to my room, Mrs. D. came to me ; she was not well ; I 
was busy ab* my screen ; she sat w th me till 3 o'clock, 
talk'd of herself, said " an awful time was approaching, 
that all she felt was if leaving those that loved her to mourn 
her loss," #c. $c, talk'd of Miss Port, Mr. Dews, &c. &c, 
said I must meet Mr. D. at her house to look over prints, 
&c. &c. When she went Mrs. Astley her m d came and 
assisted me in dressing. "When she expatiated upon 
Mrs. Delany 's goodness she wept ; I like her — extremely 
sensible and grateful she appears. I begun a letter to 
Miss Gunning ; at 4 went up, found Mrs. D. and Mr. 
Lightfoot together in y e d-room. Y e Dss join'd us ab fc 
\ past four ; we went to dinner, lively conversation. After 
d. Mrs. D. went to her room ; Mr. L. remain'd in y e din- 
ing-room till near 7. Y e Dss and I were together, and 
talked of her " dear friend Mrs. Delany." After tea I 
went to my room for \ of an hour, Mr. L. had his table 
and papers. Y° Dss look'd over a man 1 of Q n Eliz. 
prayers while I read y e copy, (w ch is for y c Queen,) to see 
if there were mistakes; after that I read till 10 o'clock 
in y e answer to y- Dss of M. Mrs. Delany was not quite 
well, went to her room before supper ; I went down w th 
her, rec d her blessing, &c. ; return'dto y e d-room. Whilst 
y e Dss went to pay Mrs. D. a visit, &c, I finish'd my 
letter to Miss Gunning, and wrote a few lines to W m to 
tell him where Mr. Ash well lived, We went to supper 



OF MBS. DELANY. 171 

ab l | past 10 ; after supper heard a curious character of 
a .Mr. Bolton of Halifax; parted aW \ past 11. Mr. 
Keys came to light my candles, &c. Y° Dss sent me 
Queen Elizabeth's prayers. 

llth IV 

Mrs. Astly came and helped me to dress ; met Mrs. 
Delany and Mr. L. in y* IV-room. We breakfasted up- 
stairs as he was th re ; converse at b l about y° late Pro- 
VOSt of Eaton. Mrs. Delany found herself not well 
enough to go to Windsor, as she had intended, to visit 
Lady Louisa Clayton. I was to have gone with her. 
12, went to Mrs. Delany as I had promised. Mr. 
Lightfoot busy transcribing. I began transcribing Queen 
Eliz. prayers y e Dss is so good to let me copy. Sat in 
y e d.-room till dinner ; did not alter my dress. Y c Dss 
came to us at different times. After dinner the Dss 
carry'd me to her dressing-room ; we staid there till tea- 
time, looking over books, china, &c., &c. She shew'dme 
her turning-room, &c, &c. After tea y e Dss read some- 
thing out ofy e Foundling Hospital for Wit. I then read 
in the answer to y e Dss of Marlbro' memoirs ; spent a 
chearful eve g and sat up till 1 o'clock reading in y° mem 1 of 
Prior. 

12th. 

After breakfast Mrs. D. and I took an airing in y e 
park ; talk'd of Lady Weymouth, Lady Stamford, and y e 
Dss. When we came in found Dr. Lind 1 from Windsor, 
with Mr. Lightfoot ; he staid to dinner ; he told us many 
particulars of y e air balloons, &c, the rebellion at Eaton, 



1 Qy. James Lind, an ingenious English physician, who wrote treatises on 
the means of preserving the health of seamen ; died 1704. 

N 2 



172 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

y e shameful manner in w ch Dr. Davies behaved to y e 
gentlemen assistants, some laughable anecdotes of y e 
boys destroying the whipping-post, w ch had been a fixture 
time immemorial, and their selling it to one another. Y e 
Marquis of Huntley, y e Duke of Gordon's spn, not being 
permitted by his tutor to join in y e destruction of it, 
bought a piece w ch he shew'd Dr. Lind with great 
triumph, and said he w d carry it to Scotland to Gordon 
Castle, and preserve it as a trophy, &c. The boys had 
no other tool to divide the spoils of the whipping-post 
than red hot pokers. 

No prayers to-day, as Mr. L. had y e toothache. Dr. 
Lind brought y e Dss some shells and fossils ; we look'd 
y m over, and placed them in drawers, &c. Conversation, 
air balloons ; Dr. Lind made a drawing of one, and of y e 
first great meteor w ch he saw from y e Terrace at Windsor. 
Dr. L. went away soon after dinner. Went to my room 
till tea-time, and finish'd y e medly chimney board, 
w ch is for y e library. After tea I read y e answer to y e 
Dss of Marlbro', till 10 o'clock — Mr. L. writing, and 
Mrs. D. and y e Dss at their work ; went to supper \ past 
ten; conversation on the words "beautiful" "hand- 
some," " agreeable," "fine person," " pretty," &c, &c. 
separated ab* 12. Soon after I got to my room Mrs. 
Delany's maid, Mrs. Astley, came and insisted upon 
doing my hair w th y e curling irons that it might be 
dress'd better, and I was forced to submit. After she 
left me sat up till past one reading. 

Decbr. 13, Saturday 

At | past 9 went upstairs ; Mr. Lightfoot only in 
y e breakfast-room; he told me he thought dear Mrs. 
Delany began to break very fast. I found letters upon 



OF MRS. DELANY. 173 

y* table, one from Mr. Dewes. Mr. Lightfoot so good 
as to road y" man' o( Q. Eliz. prayers, y l I might see if I 
had written mine correctly] lie then took his leave to 
go home. Mrs. Delany came for me; it was a delightful 
clear day ; we took a long walk in the gardens, 
shruberry, flower-garden, botanick-garden, &c, fed the 
grews* and other hints. During our walk Mrs. Delany 
talk'd only o( Mr. Dewes, told me his fortune, gave me 
a description of his house, his manner of living, his cha- 
racter, 6c., ftc. When we returned from our walk I 
came to my room and wrote an answer to Mr. Dewes's 
letter, then went to Mrs. Delany and staid some time to 
look over papers. Mrs. D. gave me some manuscripts. 
Return'd to y e Dss ; she had got together many fine things 
to shew me : — a missil w ch had been given to Edward 
y c 6th, some fine miniatures, 2 by Isaac and 2 by Peter 
Oliver — a Lord and Countess of Pembroke, y e other 2 un- 
known ; Milton and his mother in one large locket in a 
tortoiseshell case ; S r Walter Raleigh and his son in an 
old-fashion'd locket, w ch had been ornamented with jewels 
in a large locket black and green enamel ; it had be- 
long'd to Lady Raleigh, y e cyphers of W. R. and E. are 
still remaining, tho' y e enamel is damaged ; a missil 
bound in silver of a smaller size given y e Duchess by y e 
present queen. 

Mrs. Delany at her spinning-wheel, y e Dss at her 
carpet, &c, till dinner time ; the Dss then, after much 

niasiorij and taking away her wosterds, left off, and 
Mrs. Delany went to change her gown. I assisted 
y e Dss in putting up y e things, and went with her to her 



1 Cranes. 



174 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

room. She took out of her drawers other curious things 
for me to look at after dinner, told me of y e manner in 
w ch y e Queen sent her y c missel. We did not go to 
dinner till near 5 o'clock, and Mrs. Delany play'd a tune 
upon y e organ to hasten y c Dss. After dinner y e Dss 
was some time settling her work — I assisted her. She 
gave me an account of all y e pictures she had purchased, 
and of y e shameful manner in w ch she had been rob'd by 
Mr. West of many things that had belong'd to her father, 
Lord Oxford, of the cabinet he left her, &c. After tea- 
time Mrs. D. return'd to us. Y° Dss had y c cramp very 
bad. After tea she look'd out manuscripts for me, gave 
me some to copy, and read some. I begun to read 
about 8 and read till near tea in y e answer to y e Dss of 
Marlbro'. Mrs. D. told me a droll story of her and y e 
Dss having been in a hackney coach ! Y e Dss told me of 
Lord Shelburne's having papers w ch belong'd to her 
grandfather, (Queen Amies reign) ; Lord Shelburne's 
character, his treatment of his mother, his marriage w th 
Lady Sophia Granville, Lady L. Clayton living w tb him 
after his marriage to her neice, &c. ; y e marriage of Lady 
Juliana Penn, Lady Pomfret's character, &c, and com- 
ments upon it. Y e conversation after supper y e character 
of y e Bishop of Exeter, &c, &c. Mrs. Delany told me 
an anecdote of her serving a Mrs. El strong, and y e folly 
of a lady, Mrs. Clavering, ab fc a h. coach ; Lady Pomfret's 
answer. We separated ab l \ past 11. I sat up till near 
two writing out things Mrs. D. had given me. Mrs. 
Delany told me ab 1 Lord Orrery, his courting Swift, and 
after his death traducing his memory. 

Dec^r 141* 1783. Sunday. Bullstrodo. 

Went to Mrs. Delany's room at i past 9, found her 



OF MRS. DELANY. 175 

pretty well ; we talked upon religious subjects. I gave 
.Mrs. Delany an account of my first receiving // Sacra- 
ment. She told me she had known y e 2 Mr, Wesleys 

i \' Methodist preachers), she knew y m when they were 
young men, they lived near her sister 1 when they were 
students at Oxford. They were of a serious turn, and 
associated with Buch as were so. These brothers join'd 
some other young men at Oxford, and used to meet of a 
Sunday eve g and read y° Scriptures, and find out objects 
of charity to relieve. Tins was a happy beginning, but 
y e vanity of being singular, and growing enthusiasts, 
made them endeavour to gain proselytes and adopt that 
system of religious doctrine w ch many reasonable people 
thought pernicious, &c. I rec d letters from Miss Gunning 
and Mrs. Jackson, went to my room, remain'd there till 
chappel time. 

Mr. Levers, y e house steward, came and brought me a 
large portfolio of his drawings. Mrs. Delany came and 
we look'd them over, and he was so obliging to leave 
them with me. Staid in my room till Mr. Keys call'd 
me for chapel; mety e Dss and Mrs. Delany in y e gallery. 
AVe had no sermon because of y e Sacrament, w dl w d have 
made y e service too long, as Mr. Lightfoot has another 
church to serve. When y e prayers were over we went 
down y e stairs to y e body of y e chapel, went into y e pew 
next y e altar, and received y e Communion. There were 
ab 4 2.2 servants who rec d y e Sacrament. After chapel 
came to my room. Ab 1 \ past two Mrs. Delany sent for 
(me), she shew'd me some trinkets, gifts, &c, a picture 
of y e Dss done by Zincke when she was young, in a tor- 
toiseshell box w th a medallion of her own hair in a cypher 

1 It must have been in the life-time of her mother, Mrs. Granville, that 
John and Charles Wesley lived near Ann Granville. 



176 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

set w th pearls, &c, then went to dress, Mrs. Astley 
assisted me. After dinner y e Dss made me give a de- 
scription of our stile of living, our house, &c. When we 
left y e dining-room Mrs. D. went to repose in her own 
room. I went round y e apartments w th y e Dss to see if 
y e doors were shut, &c. ; as we went through y e state 
bedchamber she told me how it was formerly disposed 
and furnished, &c. When we return'd to y e d.-r. y 8 
keeper (Mr. Brumpton) desired to speak to y e Dss. Mrs. 
Delany return'd from her room. After tea we look'd 
over manuscripts of y e Duchess's ; Mrs. Delany and I 
conversed. I wrote out some things fory e Duchess ; she 
look'd over some portrait prints, and related anecdotes 
relating to them, &c. Mrs. D. left us for half an hour to 
write a letter to Mrs. P., &c. Y e Dss gave me some manu- 
scripts to copy for myself. Went to supper ab 1 \ past 10 ; 
conversation was relative to sore throats ; y e Dss said 
she had a very famous rec*, and gave me many instances 
of y e cures it had made — it is a plaister ; she is to give 
me y e rec\ A long conversation ab 1 education. We parted 
ab* \ before 12. I sat up till two, writing. 

15 th , Monday, Dec br . 1783. 

Mrs. Astley came to me, &c. Went to Mrs. D. at \ 
past 9, had my papers and staid with her till 2 o'clock. 
The Dss sent her usual message. Mrs. Delany gave me 
an account of her aunt, Lady Lansdowne, the death of 
Mr. Pendarvis, the circumstances attending it, &c.; &c. 
I look'd over two fine rosarys y e Dss had left out for me. 
I went to y e dr-room before Mrs. Delany, settled y e Dss 
work, &c. She and y e Dss soon came ; y e Dss found out 
I had a cold, and was quite unhappy about it. She 
brought a number of fine things for me to look at, w ch em- 
ploy'd me till dinner-time, — in another place I shall notice 



OF MRS. DELANY. 177 

wh f they wore. Mrs. D. and y e Dss were at their work, 
ami they MADE me drink broth for my cold; and they 
were as unhappy about me as if I had been actuary in a 
consumption. Mrs, Delany told me the whole of the 
Dss's distress at her son's marriage with Miss Cumber- 
land. As y e Dss sent a servant to Windsor I wrote a 
note to Miss Goldsworthy to enquire after her, as also to 
Miss P. Bernard at Eaton to enquire after her, and one 
for Mrs. Delany to y c Provost, &c. At 4 I went w tb y° 
Dss to her room to assist her in locking up y e fine things 
she had shewn me, then run to my room to wash my 
hands (no time for dressing). Mr. K. brought me 
answer to my notes. When I returned Mrs. D. was 
alone. Went to dinner i past four ; came into y e drawing 
ab l 6 ; Mrs. D. reposed in y e room ; y e Dss read me 
manuscript anecdotes, — told me some of Pope, that he 
was an epicure, &c, and that Johnston had not been 
candid nor true in things he had written of him in his 
life. After tea they w d not suffer me to read because 
they thought it w d make me hoarse, w th my cold, &c. ; 
wanted to make me go to bed at 8 o'clock. I wrote out 
something for y e Duchess for y e Queen. A note of Lord 
Dartmouth, (secretary of Q. Anne,) on B p Burnet's 
History of his own Times. The Dss read many inte- 
resting anecdotes out of her MS book, of y e Dss of 
Marlbro', &c., &c, &c, and conversed ab* Mrs. Walsing- 
ham, her character ; Mrs. Montagu's ; the late S r Thomas 
liobinson, a laughable anecdote of his being sent to Mrs. 
D. (when widow of Mr. Pendarvis) to be a master of y° 
ceremonies, and his throwing down a tea-kettle in making 
his comp* at his first entrance, &c. ; an account of the 
society she used to meet at Mrs. Pendarvis ; character of 



178 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

S r C. Hanbury "Williams, how he once distress'd y e Dss 
at Bath, his great affection for his daughter Lady Essex, 
and a description of her ; character of y e present D e of 
Montagu's mother, vulgar, handsome, and silly, what she 
said once to her footmen — she had a great hoarse voice, 
and was daughter to y e Dss of Marlbro' ; D. of M. (y° 
present), D. of Newcastle (y e present), their days of 
mourning for their wives, tho' they did not live well to- 
gether. Y e D e of M. very gay. 

The Dss of Marlbro' (y e famous) said she "never had a 
present of a jewel from Q. Anne," and 'tis notorious that 
when news came of y e victory of Blenheim, y e Queen 
gave her a picture of y e Duke of Marlbro' cover'd w th a 
flat diamond w th brilliant edges w ch cost 8000 pounds ; it is 
now in y e possession of y e Duke of Montagu's daughter, 
y e present Duchess of Buccleugh. When y e Dss of 
Marlbro' was in disgrace she went to Holland; before 
she went she made presents to her friends, and among 
other things she gave a Mrs, Higgin a picture of Queen 
Anne, w ch y e Queen had given her. It had been set round 
with jewels; those she took care to take from it. Mrs. 
II., knowing y e Dss gave her this because she had no 
value for it, and not out of any mark of regard, and 
sensibly conscious she was not deserving of y e honor of 
having it in her possession, offer'd it to Lord Oxford — y° 
Dss of Portland's grandfather — who (in a genteel way) 
gave her a 100 guineas for it, and it is now at Welbech 
Y e Duke and Dss of Marlbro' had upwards of £90,000 
p r an. in places, besides Blenheim and all their family 
and children in places. They w d not even pay the 
taxes of the house granted them at Whitehall, and 
whenever y e D. made a campain he was always fur- 



OF MRS. DELANY. 179 

nishod with every material of linnen, fee., fee., at y e Queen 
mpmm. Y° Prince Eugene onco when lie rec d a letter 
from Dk Marlboro 1 gave it to another to road to him, as 
it was a difficult hand to road; and y c person said y° Dk 
puts no tittle^ upon the i's. "Q," says y e Prince, " it 
8 G ■ ' 's Ink" 

Mrs. D. in y c monr gaye me y e characters of Lord E. 
Pontinek and y Dk of P. After supper talk'd of Mrs. 
Tremayne, Mrs. Dunbar that was, — her 2 d marriage, her 
character ; of Mrs.Vesey, — her absence ; of Lady and Lord 
Dartrey ; of Lady Courtown ; Lady Do r Spencer ; of y° 
famous Lord Lytcllton ; of the late Prince of Wales. L d 
Lytellton sending a letter on business of a secret nature 
to y e post w th out any direction ab l y e Prince's affairs, and 
it came into y e hands of Mr. Pelham, y e person who 
sh d not have seen it, &c. Mrs. Delany in y e morn g told 
me many particulars relating to Swift, — Mrs. Johnston, 
Yanissa, &c. We separated ab l \ past 11, y e Dss wanted 
me to promise to lay in bed till 12 to-morrow. Came to 
my room ab l twelve ; Mrs. Astley came to know if I 
wanted anything, and brought me some of her verses, 
which I had beg'd ; she staid and talked w th me till | 
past 12 ab* Mrs. Delany. 

16th. 

Mrs. Astley came before I was up to know how my 
cold was ; Mrs. D. wanted me to breakfast in bed. Ab* 
\ before 111 went to Mrs. Delany ; she had not slept 
well, but was in good spirits ; had much interesting con- 
verse ; she hoped I would give what time I could to her 
when I came to town, and again repeated that she look'd 
forward to my being a comfort to y e Duchess when she 
was no more ; desired I w d remember it was her wish I w d 



) Tittle — a point, a dot. — Tnhrison. 



180 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

give her (when that period arrived) as much of my time 
as I could 3 that y e Dss loved me, and she knew it w d 
give her comfort if I did so, &c, &c. She gave me her opi- 
nion of my character. ! that I may ever endeavour to 
act up to such a character, and he from my heart w t she 
thinks me ! She then talk'd of my settling in life ; told 
me y e sort of person I ought for my own happiness to 
marry — plainly, very plainly she drew the picture I and she 
gave me the character of a friend of hers, (Mrs. Donellan) 
and gave me a description of wax figures in y e museum 
at Dublin. I read her paragraphs out of my letters ; I 
had one from Miss H. More. Came to my room and 
wrote ; Mrs. Astley came to ask me y e particulars of my 
letter from W m Benn, as it related to Mr. AshfordV 
going to y e West Indies, &c. At \ past 12 Mrs. Delany 
came to me, brought letters she had rec d from Mrs. Bos- 
cawen, &c. ; she left me two ; I promised to follow her 
into y e dr-room. Mrs. B. mention' d in her letter y 1 she 
heard Mr. Peachey 2 (S r James's son) was going to be 
married to Miss Jennings. When I went to y e Dss's room 
found dear Mrs. Delany there ; y e Dss sent her own woman 
w th y e 2 fine missils for me to look over ; Mrs. D. at her 
wheel ; she gave me Miss Jennings character (y* Miss J. 
who does y e flowers, &c), Mrs. Yesey's introduction of 
her, &c. ; she hoped it was this Miss J. that Mrs. B. 
mentions in her letter ; talk'd of Mr. Walpole, and of her 
opinion of him. Ab fc \ past 1 y e Dss join'd us ; made 



1 Query Ashwell. 

2 Sir James Peachy, Bart., created Baron Selsey in 1794, and died 1808. 
He married in 1747 Lady Georgiana Caroline Scott, daughter of Henry 1st 
Earl of Deloraine. Their only son John Peachy (afterwards 2nd Baron Sel- 
sey) married in 1784 Hester Elizabeth, daughter of George Jennings, Esq., 
of Newsells, Herts. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 181 

me her daily presenl of a nosegay ; Mrs. Delany and tlie 
Dss sat at their work, I looked over y* missils \ we talk Yl 
of Mrs. Walsingham and Mrs. Montague. Y c Dsa read 
my letter iV m Miss II. More, &e.; talked of Mrs. Delany 

when she was out of the room, her health, &c. 

The Dsfl would not allow me to dress, but I found Mrs. 
Astley wanting to dress me ; we talk'd over y c disappoint- 
ment of AV m Benns being too late in his application 
for Mr. Ashford's place to go to y e West-Indies, &c. 
When I went to y* dr-room I found Mrs. D. down ; she 
beg'd me to come as often as possible to see her this 
winter in town, and told me I might have y e Dss of 
Portland's coach whenever I chose ; that she sh d be al- 
ways happy to see me, but would never take it ill when 
I did not come. Y e Dss join'd us ; we look'd at y e hares ; 
there were 7. Dinner at \ past 4 o'clock. 

Mrs. D. reposed in y e drawing-room. Y e Dss and 1 
conversed till tea time, and she shewed me a portfolio of 
drawings, views of Spa, &c, &c. ; after tea she read a 
letter rec d from a Mrs. (Baberf), went and fetched some 
original letters of Queen Anne's to her grandfather, and 
y e original letter she wrote to King William upon y e 
death of her sister Queen Mary — an unaffected, sensible 
letter ; I then read y e answer to y e Dss of Marlboro'; read 
till supper time, &c, &c. 

After supper y c Dss and Mrs. Delany told me some 
remarkable anecdote s of Pope, his reading his satire of 
Atossa, 1 his conversations w th Mr. Lenard, Lord Haley's 



' In Tope's Epistle 2. To a Lady, " Of the Characters of Woman," tho 
Duchess of Marlborough is described under the name of Atossa. 
" But what are those to great Atossa's mind ? 
Scarce once herself, by turns all womankiwll 



182 



LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



secretary, Mr. Hooke's character, his being connected w th 
y e Dss of Marlbro ; Pope's getting £3000 from her to sup- 
press Atossa, and published it after her death, &c. ; parted 
at \ past 11. 

17* Dec 1 *. Bullstrode, 1783. 

\ before 10 went to Mrs. Delany. We look'd over 
manuscripts; she gave me some to copy. Ab fc \ past 10 
went to my room ; Mr. Lever came to me for his draw- 
ings, and obligingly gave me one ; I staid in my room 
to write, and made paper cases for the manuscripts, &c, 
I am to take with me ; rec d y e Dss usual kind message. 
A little after 12 Mrs. Delany came for me; I went to 
her room and read y e papers to her ; Lord Abington's 
long speech, &c, &c, upon y e East India tax ; we went up 
stairs ; Mr. Lightfoot, y e Dss, and Mrs. Delany then 
staid in y e drawing-room till prayers ; went to them \ 
past one ; after prayers we all return'd to y e drawing- 
room ; Mr. L. at his table and manuscripts, &c. ; we had 
a barrel of West India shells to look over. I took Mr. 
Lightfoot in, making him believe there were oysters com- 
ing to eat ; this occasion'd much mirth. The Dss pro- 
nounced the shells to be " good for nothing " afterwards 
was so good to look out some fossils and shells for me 
out of her own drawers ; Mr. Agnew came and assisted 
to sort them out. I begun my card almanack w ch Mrs. 
Delany gave me to copy. Dinner J past four ; were very 
merry at dinner. After dinner y e Duchess had a box of 
shells brought ; we look'd y m over together, and she gave 

Who, with herself, or others, from her birth 
Finds all her life one warfare upon earth : 
Shines in exposing knaves and painting fools, 
Yet is whate'er she hates and ridicules." 



OF MRS. DELANT. 183 

mc y c box and its contents ; this employ'd lis till Mrs. 
Delanv came up from her room. At 7 tea : we bad all 
our tables, and I finish \1 my almanack ; 1 wrote y c titles 
upon y e papers j* Duchess is to give y° Queen, and I 
folded and sealed them np ; then read in y° answer to y c 
Pss of Marlbr'; finish'd y book. Y e Duchess told me 
many curious anecdotes relative to those times; a singu- 
lar story of Mr. Harly, receiving an anonymous letter, 
meeting y* man in Lincolns Inn-fields, and what pass'd ; 
Mr. Harly having him a fortnight conceal'd in y r house, 
and not even y e servants knew of his being there ; he 
learnt many things of this man relative to politics ; when 
got to L. Inn-fields, it was dark; the man started up 
out of the grass toliere he lay hid (for in those times it was 
not paved) ; and said: "Sir, now you are in my power;" 
"Yes I am (said Mr. Harly), but I am not apprehensive 
of any thing, for I never injured any one," &c, &c. Y e 
Duchess told me many other things. I return'd her all 
y° books, <vc, T had borrow'd, or rather she had lent to 
me, Prior, &c. ; past ten went to supper. 

Y re Dss carried y e vol. of Pope w ch contains his Criti- 
cisms on Woman ; read whilst we w r ere at table y e one 
on Atossa, w TCh is meant for y e Duchess of Marlbro', and 
she related anecdotes of Pope, Young, Voltaire, Lord Mel- 
combe ; we parted ab* \ past 1 1 ; I did not take leave of y° 
Duchess, for she agreed with me not to do so. Mr. Keys 
light'd me to my room ; said he would take care to put 
up my shells and things for me. Mrs. Astley came; she 
had pack'd up my things ; wanted to know if she should 
do anything for rae ; I wanted nothing, and wish'd her 
good night. 1 wrote a letter before 1 went to bed to y e 
Duchess to leave to-morrow morning, to thank her for 
her kindness and friendship 4 



184 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

DecR 18th, 1783. 

My D rst Madam, — I cannot quit your Grace's house 
without telling you that upon paper w ch my full heart de- 
nied me power of utterance to say, for indeed I could not 
bear to take leave of you even, tho' I trust I shall meet 
you again in a few days. Accept, dear madam, the 
acknowledgements of my gratefull heart for the many 
tender proofs I haye received of your tender regard, and 
at the same time be assured I am sensible of y e honor 
you have conferd upon me in allowing me to be so long 
your guest ; y e time I have spent at Bulstrode has pass'd 
too profitably and agreeably ever to be erased from the 
memory of your Grace's most affectionate, 

Eespectful, and grateful friend, 

M. H. 

18* Decb*. Thursday, 1783. 

I got up early to pack up my papers, &c. Mrs. Astley 
came to assist me in dressing ; Mrs. Delany came to me 
when my hair was doing, and staid a little time. Dear 
dear woman ! She beg'd me not to hurry myself; i soon 
folio w'd her upstairs. Mr. Keys was so obliging to come 
and said he w d take care to pack up my boxes of shells, &c. 
Went up to breakfast. Y s Dss sent a kind message by 
Mrs. Anne. I went out of y e room and gave her y e 
letter I had written to y e Duchess to tell her upon 
paper w 1 1 would not say ; returned, and after breakfast 
Mr. Lightfoot, and Mrs. Delany, and I separated. I 
went to my room to see if all my things were ready ; 
Mrs. Astley and Mrs. Delany' s footman came and carried 
my things to be ready for y e chaise. Went to y e library ; 
put up all the books I had taken out, &c. Mrs. D. came 
to me and took a most tender leave of me ; she wept, and 



OF MRS. DELANY. 185 

said kind things y went to my heart. I went into y° 
Dss room to Mr. Lightfoot, and desired him to stay 
till y* next day at Bulstrode, w* he promised to do to 
keep company w ,h Mrs. Delany. As I was going along 
j* gallery again met dear Mrs. Delany ; she walk'd w th 
me to y end, and waited (till I ran into y e housekeeper's 
room) to take leave of her. I then again bid Mrs. Delany 
adieu I When I got into y c hall, y c butler and Mr. 
31 ackay, y e cook, &c, were waiting to see me set out; 
Mr. Lightfoot came to y e chaise door to take leave of me. 
Mrs. Astley and I set out at 11 ; it was a fine morning, 
and we had a very pleasant drive ; we pass'd a wedding, 
a burial, and an air balloon ; Mrs. Astley told me many 
circumstances relative to her family, and particularly a 
sister of hers, who lives w th a Miss Palmer, their manner 
of living, &c, talk'cl of her " dear and worthy mistress " 
(Mrs. Delany), talk'd of Mr. Dewes and Mrs. and Miss 
Port, &c, &c. We arrived in town ah 1 \ past two o'clock. 
I took leave of Mrs. Astley in y e chaise, she would not 
get out, and was welcom'd and rec d by dearest Anna 
Maria with her usual tenderness and affection. We had 
much to say to each other after a separation of a month 
and 2 days. After dinner W m Benn came to see how I 
did, told me about y c West India affair, &c. \ past 11 
wrote a letter to Mrs. Delany, but it was too late for y e 
post ; wrote a letter and sent it to Mr. Dewes to inform 
him I had rec d the parcel of papers ; I found y m arrived 
and safe in A. Maria's custody when I came home. 

10 th DecX Friday 1783. Clargea Street. 

Mrs. Walsingham came ; was shewn up to my room ; 
1 went to her ; she staid \ of an hour, press'd me to go 

PART II. — VOL. III. O 



180 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

• 

to her house in y e evening ; she was to have an assemble ; 
S r W m Hamilton, &c, to be there. I then went over 
to y e Veseys ; saw Mr. and Mrs. Vesey ; was soon sent 
for home ; my uncle Frederick and Miss Gunning ; Miss 
Gunning did not stay long, my uncle some time ; Mrs. 
Boscawen came and he left me. I made my uncle Fre- 
derick tell me y e news of y e day respecting politicks, and 
answer y e questions respecting y e late Prince of Wales, 
Lord Lytelton, &c, w ch y e Dss bid me ask him ; he did 
so and told me also an anecdote ; all this I wrote and 
sent a long letter of scraps to y e Duchess, w th another to 
Mrs. Delany. 

20«i Decbr 1783. Clarges Street. 

My uncle S r W m Hamilton came at h past 11, and 
staid till 3 o'clock ; he had a pain in his face. We talk'd 
over many interesting matters, and I shewed him some 
letters. Little Katherine Jackson came and was near an 
hour in y e room. He was vastly pleased with y e dear 
child, and play'd a good deal with her. 

Miss Clayton (niece to y e late Mr. Clayton of Harley- 
ford) came in to Lady King's at y e same time I did. We 
were some little time alone together. She seems to have a 
civil and gentle disposition, and is very well bred. Dined 
\ past 4. Conversation turn'd upon Mrs. Leman's mar- 
riage with Mr. Strode, her intended finery for court ; y e 
lady is 56 ; y e gentleman 41 or 42, &c, &c. ; tattle and 
politicks of y e day. 

At 7 my uncle W m 's carriage came for me, and I went 
home to receive Miss Gunning. Eec d a letter from y e 
Dss Dowg. of Portland and one written by dear Mrs. 
Delany. What a proof of her affection ! for she cannot 



OF MRS. DELANY. 187 

a letter she makes, and has not for months attempted 

to write a letter to any person whatever; \ letter was a 
quarto sheet and \. j before 8 Miss Gunning came; we 
had a comfortable tete-a-tete for an hour. At 9 o'clock 
my uncle S W™ Hamilton came; he had been at Lord 
Stormont's, had met there y° French Ambassador, L dy 
Jersey) \" Paynes, &c. We talk'd of Italy, Eussia, &c. ; 
he went away halt past 11 o'clock, and had prefer'd 
coming to me to going to //' opera* Miss Boscawen call'd 
to Miss Gunniner. 

Sunday 21st Jtefot, 

Lady Wake's coach came for me at half past 7. Sir 
AY m told me what the P. of Wales said to him ah* me 
when he met him in y° House of Commons, &c. 

Monday, 2 2d Dec 1 '., Clarges Street. 

My uncle Frederick came and staid near 2 hours. 
Lady Stormont came ; they talk'd of y e politicks of y e day ; 
Lady S. was more animated and open upon the subject 
than usual. The K. was blamed for his want of openess, 
in short y c language of y e S. family was totally different 
to what I lead ever heard it. Y e P's conduct was praised. 
Mr. F. was no longer an obnoxious person ! I will- 
make no further mem., for it is painfull to dwell on the 
power of interest over y° human mind and heart ! Lady 
S. told me that she met y p Prince of Wales last night at 
y c French ambassador's, y 4 he enquired after me, and 
sent his cornp* to me. He told her he sat next S r W m 
Wake at y' House of Commons, and that lie had en- 
quired after me of him, &c, &c, &c, and that he talk'd 

ticks with her. 0, how times alter and things change ! 

o 2 



188 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Can I help making this exclamation when I recollect 

what I have heard him say formerly of y e S M 

and my uncle W m , and now hear what he says to them ? 
Eec d letters from Lord Napier and Mr. Dewes. 

Tuesday £3 d DccR 

Mrs. Yesey came for me at 8 o'clock ; we went to 
Lady Dartrey's, met there Lady Mountstewart ; l she 
told us much of Turin and y e court there, &c, &c, 
talked of Savoy, and the water y e "Wren. As I was going 
Mr. Antrobus call'd to me out of y e parlour. Master 
Dawson was there ; wrote a note and sent it by Lady 
Dartrey's serv fc to enquire after Mrs. Delany ; had an 
answer written by Mr. Bernard Dewes to say she was 
well and did not suffer by coming to town yesterday. 

Eec d an answer to my message sent by W m Benns to 
y e Dss Dow r of Portland, that she was pretty well, and 
hoped to see me to-morrow. 

24th rjecbr 1783. Wednesday. 

Dress'd with a hat for all day ; my uncle Frederick 
came at \ past 1 1 ; went in his coach to my aunt Dow s 
Lady Warwick's ; staid there till \ past 1 o'clock. She 
was very kind to me, took me in her closet, shew'd me 
how she had arranged it since I saw her ; all her chil- 
dren s drawings, &c. ; shew'd me y e new case she had 
made for Lady Anne (y e late) Greville's sketch of her- 
self; y e miniature picture drawn from it, &c. When we 
came away my uncle went w th me to Mrs. Delany's. As 



1 Charlotte Jane, eldest daughter and coheiress of Herbert-Windsor Hick- 
man, 2nd and last Viscount Windsor, married, 12 Nov. 1766, John, Lord 
Mountstuart, eldest son of the Earl of Bute. Lord Mountstuart had been 
envoy extraordinary and plenipotentiary to the Court at Turin from Aug. 
1779 to 1783. In 1796 he was made Marquis of Bute. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 189 

we wore going thither said much to me al >' going to 
Court. He din'd yesterday al Lord Aborcorn's : met 
there Mr. John James Hamilton, his heir, and my 
ancle W m ; found d ,M Mrs. Delany very weU and in 

spirits ; Mrs. Boscawen with her. Mrs. B. Hew to shew 
me y* little fly w** Mrs. D. had brought in a little cage 
from Bulstrode, &C, &c. Mrs, B, wont away, and I 
staid 1 an hour. I promised to go to Mrs. Delany's in 
y eve 1 . My undo brouglit me homo. Y c Dss Dow g of 
Portland had sent to beg I w d meet her in y c evening at 
Mrs. Delany's. An. Maria came to mc and I shew'd her 
my pretty little fly cage, &c. When I was at Mrs. 
Delany's I ran into Mrs. Astley's room and spake to her 
for a moment. Din'd at home. At 7 y c Dss of Port- 
land's coach came for me, and I went to Mrs. Delany. 
Found her and Mr. J&rnard Dewes together ; Mrs. 
Delany was charming well. I went into her bedchamber 
and spoke .to Mrs. Astley ab 1 her sister going to live 
with Mrs. Hamilton. Y e Dss came at past 7 o'clock ; 
we wore mutually happy to meet again. Mr. Dewes 
went away for an hour and J ; we conversed upon dif- 
ferent subjects. I left them at \ past 9. 
25th p ec Lr 17 go # Thursday. 

Y c day was so dark, snow, &c, that I did not go te 
church, — fmish'd a long letter to Miss H. More. 

20th Friday. 

My uncle, S r W™ Hamilton, came at 11 and staid till 
12, and gave me his opinion of Miss Gunning. My 
uncle Frederick came soon after he was gone. Before 5 
we went together to Mrs. Montagu's to dinner; met 
there Lord and Lady Grantham. 



190 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Decb r 27 th , Saturday. 

Dress'd in y e morning for all day, My aunt Lady 
"Warwick came ; was so good as to bring me the draw- 
ing she had promised me of y e late Lady Anne Grevill's. 1 
At \ past 7 y e Dss Dow s of Portland sent her chair for 
me. I went to Mrs. Delany's. Y e Dss made me many 
apologies for having forgot to order her coach for me. 
"We sat and conversed comfortably together till \ past 8, 
there being no other company. At \ past 8 my nncle 
S r W m Hamilton came and staid till near 10 o'clock. 
We convers'd upon many agreeable subjects, y e arts 
chiefly. My uncle brought me home ; he did not come 
in, as he was going to sup at Eichmond House. 

Sunday 28th Decb r . 

At 4 o'clock had Mrs. Vesey '« coach and went to dine 
at Mrs. Walsingham's ; Mr. Walker (y e man that gives 
lectures) dined w th us. Mrs* Walsingham shew'd me, 
before dinner, y e color' d prints of the ornaments of y e 
gallery at Eome, y e Vatican, &c, &c. After dinner Mr. 
Walker told us where he had been in y e summer ; told 
us of a curious character, a Mr. Langton Freeman of 
Bugby in Warwickshire, a clergyman — his avarice, his 
thefts ; he had had above 2,000 p r an. ; told us y e cir- 
cumstances of a murder of one Haram, a schoolmaster, 
&c, &c. Mrs. Walsingham and I came to Mrs. Vesey's 
at 8 o'clock ; met there Mr. Walpole, Lady Mornington, 
Lady Eoss, Mrs. Montagu, Mr. Montague, Miss Gre- 
gory, my uncle S r W m Hamilton. I had a good deal of 
conversation w th Mr. Walpole ; I sent for my little fly 



1 Lady Anne Greville, youngest daughter of Francis, 1st Earl of Warwick, 
died in 1783. 



OF MBS. DELANT. 101 

made by dear Mrs. Delany, &c, &c. Mrs. Walsing- 
ham w a sot me down in her coach, tho' 1 had only to 
run acr 

Monday 29* Dec 1 *. 1783. 

Had breakfast upstairs, and dress'd for all day. My 
uncle Frederick came and sat | an hour; wc conversed 
upon religious subjects. I gave him Swiff s sermon on 
y e Trinity to take home, and lc Bas Bleu. 1 At 5 my 
aunt Lady Warwick's coach came for me. I went there 
to dinner ; Lady P. Harper 3 was there — G. A. Clarke. 
L ,,y W. gave us a description of y c two Banniers, y e baths 
there, eve, &c. ; y c people, stile of living j an account of 
her journey to y e mountains; Swiss Dr. Shoumack, 
his skill, &c, &c. Gen 1 C. came at \ past 8 to tea, told 
me many things relative to y e late Prince Charles of 
Austria (Brussels), his character, &c. 

30 t]l Dec. 1783, Tuesday. 

Went down at \ past 9 to breakfast ; * Miss Glover 
b d with us. After dinner wrote cards to invite some 
very young friends to come to us on twelf day, next 
Tuesday. Y e Veseys sent a message and Maria went to 
them. A. M. told me that she was for \ an hour at Mr. 
Vesey's, y fc she heard there y 1 Mr. Walpole had spoke 
much in my favour, and y l he had talk'd of my quitting 
the Court in terms y fc did me credit. 
leaday, 31* Decb*. 1 < 

At \ past 1 y c Dss D r of Portland's coach came for 
me, and I went to Mrs. Delany' s ; I did not get out ; she 



1 The " lias Bleu," written by Mrs. Hannah More. 

2 Lady Frances Elizabeth, second daughter of Francis, 1st Earl of War- 
wick, married Sir Henry Harpnr, and died in 1825. 



192 LIFE AND COKRESPONDENCE 

came to me, and we went to my uncle, S r W m H., at y° 
hotel King St r , S. James's ; y e Dss was already there, &c. ; 
saw y e fine vase, 1 &c, &c, staid there till \ past 3 o'clock, 
and y e Dss and I went home w th Mrs. Delany (Mrs. D. 
eyesight so well again that she saw y e vase, &c.) we 
din'd w th this dear woman, and after dinner y e Dss made 
her go to repose herself, and we remain'd below till she 
sent for us to coffee ; y e Dss talk'd of (Mrs. Delany) 
" her excellent friend," &c. Ab* tea-time Mr. and Mr&. 
Cole came in. He talk'd a great deal; I was as much 
amused as any one c d be who was in great pain, for y e 
pain in my face was very bad. Came home in y e Dss's 
coach at \ past 9. 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

1st Jany. 1784. 

Tell me how you do to-day, my clear Miss Hamilton. 
I hope your goodness to me yesterday did not add to 
your teazing complaint. The calm delightfull society of 
yesterday, not forgetting the vase, did me more good 
than freezing fingers can express. I am impatient for 
Saturday. 

Ever yours, 

M. D. 



1 The celebrated Barberini vase brought from Italy by Sir William Ha- 
milton, afterwards in the possession of the Duchess-Dowager of Portland ; and 
bought at her sale for one thousand pounds by the Duke of Portland. It has 
been in the British Museum since 1810. 



OF MRS. PET, ANY. 193 

Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton, 

Most welcome you will be fco your faithful friends in 
St. James's Place on 'Tuesday next ; and the Dutchess 
D. of P. coach will come for you at 7 o'clock. My cold 
is better, it has been very troublesome — good night. 

Ever yours, 

M. D. 

St. James Place, Sunday night, 12 o'clock, almost asleep. 

Do you know in which vol. of Mr. Gilpin's books the 
Royal Oak was mentioned ? l Send me word if you do. 



MISS HAMILTON'S DIARY. 

1st j an y 1784, Thursday. 

I went to y e Dss Dow g of Portland at \ past 2. She 
made me write for her an answer to a letter she had from 
y e Queen, w ch she copied and sent. I staid w th her till 
near 4. Mr. Cole came and staid near two hours. She 
follow'd me out of y e room, said how provok'd she was 
at his staying so long, etc., &c, had her coach and went 
to Mr. Jackson's ; din'd there, Miss Clarkes there also. 
Medley screen for Mr. J. I spoke to Mr. J. about y e 
Glovers ; he w d not speak calmly about it, therefore 
I drop'd y° subject. When I came home, they were in 
bed; I went to bed soon. Mrs. Boscawen and my 
uncle Frederick had call'd. 



1 The account of t!:e oak in the New Forest, against which the arrow of Sir 
Walter Tyrrel glanced which killed William Ihifus, is given by the Rev. 
William Gilpin, in "Remarks on Forest Scenery," vol. i. pp. 104—6, second 
edition, 1794. 



194 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

2d Jany. 1784. Clarges Street. 

The Dss of P. sent me a present of venison ; I had 
her serv* up to enquire after her, &c. ; came down to 
Miss Clarkes, sat w tb them till my uncle S r W m came, 
w ch was at 9 ; then we went to Mrs. Montagu's, met 
there Lady Bute, L dy L. Stewart, Lord Huntingdon, Mr. 
Walpole, Mr. and Mrs. Hoare, Mrs. Boscawen, a Mrs. 
Mil ward and another lady, a Mrs. Ch s York, 2 Mr. and a 
Miss York, L dy Bell Polworth, 1 Mr. Eobinson, Mr. Mon- 
tagu, Miss Gregory, Mon 1 ' D'Ademar, y e French Am- 
bassador, and a Mr. York. 

I had much conversation w th Mr. Walpole, Lord Hun- 
tingdon, L dy L. Steward, Mrs. Hoare, and Miss Gregory. 
Mrs. Walsingham, too, was there ; my uncle brought 
me home a little past 1 1 ; told me he had din'd at y e D. 
of Northumberland's, and gave me a description of his 
fine room, &c, 

3 r <i Jany. 1784, Saturday. 

Dress' d in my habit, and about 12 walk'd to Mrs. 
Carter ; found her very poorly with y e rheumatism in 
her back. I sat an hour with her. As I was going 
away Lady Dartrey and Lady Wake came^in; they staid 
only a few minutes ; they took me in y e coach ; they 
were going to see Mrs. Wright's wax-work to amuse y e 
children ; they set me down at St. James's Palace ; sat 
half an hour w th Miss Try on. I went to Miss Gunning, 
she was just return' d from my house, where she had 



1 Amabel, daughter of Philip, 2nd Earl of Hardwioke, married 16 July, 
1772, Alexander, Lord Polwarth, who died in 1781. Lady Amabel became 
Baroness Lucas on the death of her mother, in 1779, and was created Countess 
de Grey, 5 Oct. 1816, and died in 1833. 



OF MBS. DELANY, 195 

boon to visit me, 1 sai an hour w (l1 her whilst she did 
her hair ; walk'd home through y* park. Mrs. Chapone 
call'd for me in \ Dss Do' of Portland's coach at 7} past 
S. I was not ready, but I ran down w tt my gown 
unpinned, my large cloak hiding all, therefore I was not 
guilty o\' v rudeness of making Mrs. Chapone wait an 
instant. When we got to Mrs. Delany L ask'd leave to 
go into her room, and Mrs. Astley came and gave me 
some pins. Mrs. Delany came and told me she must 
contrive to speak to me after dinner, for she had a secret 
message to me from y e Dss D r Portland. We went 
down to dinner a little past 4, sat below till G ; very 
agreable general conversation. When we came up Mrs. 
D. went to repose for J of an hour. Mrs. Chapone and 
I look'd over some prints from y e antique, &c. ; Mrs. C. 
spoke of dear Mrs. Delany, that she had known her a 
great many years, and that she improved, or had seem'd 
to improve, in every human excellence, sensibility, and feel- 
in;/ every year instead of growing cold-hearted w tu age, 
etc., etc. 

Mrs. D. came to us, and then under y c color of getting 
me to look for a book took me to her bed-room and told 
me what y e Dss wanted me to do, viz., to purchase y e V. 
of my uncle W m , &c. I wrote a note to him to come to 
me, but he was out. Y c Dss D r Portland, y e Bishop of 
Exeter, 1 (Eoss), and S r W™ Musgrave 3 came to tea; my 
uncle, S r W m Hamilton also came ; a very pleasant con- 
versation. The note I had written to my uncle had 



1 Dr. John Ross, Bishop of Exeter from 1778 to 1792. 

Jii William Muflgrave, Bart., a virtuoso and collector; he married Isabel, 
CotmtesB-Dowager of Carlisle and daughter of William, Lord Byron. 



196 LTFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

come to him then, and he came to Mrs. Delany's without 
having rec d my message, and had put off Mrs. Walsing- 
ham to meet me there. "When Mrs. C, y e Bishop, and 
S r W m M. were gone I took him down to y e parlour 
under pretence of shewing him y e pictures, and then told 
him w ht y e Dss wish'd ab* y e vase ; when we came up- 
stairs again they talk'd upon y e subject. My uncle 
brought me home at 10 o'clock; he told me he w d think 
upon w ht y e Dss had said. 

Sunda}' - . 

Heavy rain, did not go to church, dress'd for y e day, 
Anne Maria came and sat w th me in my room after we 
were both dress'd. Mrs. Turton and Miss Mosely came 
and made me a visit ; A. M. staid y e whole time. A 
little after 3 went to y e Veseys ; Mr. Vesey was just 
getting into his coach, therefore I did not go in, but 
accepted his offer of setting me down at Mr. Glover's, 
where I din'd and staid till 1 1 o'clock. Mr. Glover did 
not dine at home, but came to us at 8 o'clock ; he read 
Pope's Windsor Forrest to me, &c, &c. After supper, 
when Miss Lanton and Miss Glover went upstairs he 
talk'd of y e late Prince of Wales, and of the Court, &c. 

Monday, 5^ JanY. 1784. 

Lady Wake came for me ; we call'd for Mrs. Carter, 
went to Lord Dartrey's to dinner ; I staid till past 11 ; 
Lady Dartrey's birthday, she is, I believe, 43. After 
dinner Lady Wake's children came ; we had a fiddle and 
danced, (I w tu Mr. W.,) when y e children went to supper. 
I sat w th Mrs. Carter. They went away soon after 9, 
as did Mrs. Carter. 



OF MKS. DELANY. 197 

Mh. Vdany to Mm Hamilton. 

, r „ ,„ Monday night, 6«» Jan7. 1784. 

My dbab Miss Hamilton, 

As I find you don't go to Whitehall to-morrow 
morning, can yon bestow an hour upon me? If you 

can come by clown o'clock let me know by the bearer, 
and the Dutchess of P*s coach will call for you about 

that hour. 

Yours affectionately, 
M. D. 

MISS HAMILTON'S DIARY. 

Tuesday, 6 th Jan7. 1784. 

Mrs. Delany sent y e Dss of Portland's coach for me 
at 11. I went to Mrs. Delany's and sat with that dear 
woman till \ past two; till 2 we were alone. She 
talk'd to me of Mr. Dewes, &c, of his mother (her sister), 
her death/ her patience under a terrible disorder for 2 
years ; shew'd me and gave me shells, &c. At 2 Mrs. C. 
Hoare came, who talked of Mr. Bernard Dewes, and of 
a governess she had got for his children, &c. I like 
Mrs. Hoare, for she is a pleasing, sensible young woman, 
and seems unaffected. Din'd at home with Miss Clarkes' 
after dinner Miss A. Clarke practised country dances for 
y c eve 8 , and we were busy in arranging y c rooms for our 
young people ; they came at 7 o'clock and staid till a 
little after 10. I had Mr. Wake, Mr. Dawson, his 
cousin Vesey Dawson, Miss and Master Hamilton, E d 
Wake, Charlotte Wake, Miss Glover, two Miss Clarices 
and myself; a very merry eve ? ; drew for king and queen, 



198 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

had 12 th cake, &c, danced, play'd at forfeits, had a supper 
at \ past 9 o'clock, &c. We set up half an hour after 
our young friends left us. 



The Doivager- Countess Gower to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill, 6«i j an y 5 84. 

I thank d r M rs Delany for all her kind wishes to me, 
and beg she'll believe I make a suitable return in 
thought, tho' I have not sent 'em, thinking letters 
troublesome to you ; and I hear by y e D s of Portland's 
porter (who is a very intelligent person) particularly how 
you and her Grace do, to whom I desire my best respects, 
and that y e new year may be productive of all happyness 
to you both. 

I propos'd being in London a ffortnight ago, but 
loitering here, I know not why, till y e snow came, stop'd 
me, and such peircing cold is not often felt as came w th it. 
I being still a cripple, fear'd sitting in y e cold for five 
hours might cause pain. Y e weather being chang'd, I 
propose being in London y e midle of next week ; when 
there's a general move, wagons, &c, must be humour'd. 
Think w th pleasure of y e evenings in St. James's 
Place. 

I am much oblig'd by y c mention you make of Leveson. 
I feel neither glad nor sorry ; from y e instability that 
seems to influence y e whole, one cant be affected one way 
or other 1 I'm pleas'd in one respect, that he's not 
attach' d to party (that is an abject state indeed), but 
brought in by one much his sen r in his profession, for his 
attention and diligence in it, who told me he hop'd never 



OF MRS, DBLANY. L99 

I have made this paragraph too 
Long, but being eonvinced you wish him well, make no 
apology for bo doing. 

Adieu till I have y' hapiness of seeing you. 



Mrs, Delany to Miss Hamilton, 

7 th Jan>\ 1784, 



Can you come now ! as the Dutchess has sent her coach 
and can carry you back when you please. 

M. D. 



MISS HAMILTON'S DIAltY. 
Wednesday, 7 lb Jan>', 1784. 

In y e morning had S r R. Gunning*, 2] Miss Humes, 
S r W m Hamilton, my uncle Frederick Hamilton, Mrs. 
Hamilton. Mrs. Astley came to speak to Mrs. H. about 
her sister. At three they left me. Lord Dartrey came 
in for i of an hour. A little before 4 my uncle W m came 
again ; he sat \ of an hour talking over y e vase and y e 
Dss. He went w th me to Dow g Lady King's, where we 
dined en famille, and staid till \ past 7, when y e Dss D. 
of Portland's coach came for me, when he put me into 
y° coach. I went to Mrs. Boscawen's ; met there Lady 
Bute, Lady Clifford, her daughter, Miss Southwell, Mrs. 
and Miss Price, Lady Amherst, Lord Walsingham, &c., 
eVe. Mrs. Leveson, Mrs. B. daughter, invited me to go 
to her on Saturday morn 8 , &c, I had y e Dss's coach, and 
t; to Mrs. Delany's h past 9. Mr. and Mrs. Cole 
were there ; they soon went, and then I had a conversa- 



1 Lady Gowcr alludes to her son's appointment as one of the Lords of the 
Admiralty. 



200 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

tiou w th y e Duchess aV *y e vase, &c. Left her and dear 
Mrs. D. ; went to y e Veseys ; met there Lady Spencer, 
Lord Lucan, S r Joshua Eeynolds, S r Bob* and 2 Miss 
Gunnings. They all soon went away, but S r J. Eeynolds 
and I staid to supper. 

Thursday, 8 {h Jan?. 1784. 

Eead some letters in E. E., w ch we criticised ; at 1 2 
o'clock my uncle, S r W m Hamilton, came and staid till 
past 1 o'clock ; we settled y e matter ah* y e vase, &c, &c, 
y fc y e Dss D. of P. is to have. When he left me Mr. 
Hume came and staid \ of an hour. Told me he was 
going to Oxford, to be enter' d in y* university. Lady 
Wake came for me to go to Mrs. Delany. Mrs. Bosca- 
wen came in before we came away. Lady Wake set me 
down at home. I found Mrs. Walsingham waiting for 
me in my room ; she staid only a few minutes ; came to 
invite me to dine with her next Tuesday, to meet Dr. 
Wharton, and also to remind me of dining with her on 
Sunday, to meet Miss Gunning. Before 4 y e Dss D r of 
Portland's coach came for me. Mrs. Carter was in it, 
and we went to Mrs. Delany' s to dinner, and found my 
dear dear Mrs. Delany vastly well. Miss Burney also 
dined with us. Mrs. Delany made me do y e honors of 
y e table. She sat with us sometime after dinner, and 
then left us for \ of an hour to take her siesta. Mrs. 
Carter, Miss Burney, and I talk'd of Bousseau's Eloise. 
Mrs. Carter said that Eousseau was a much more dan- 
gerous writer than Voltaire, &c, &c. Mrs. Delany sent 
for us up at 6 for coffee, w ch she made me pour out. (How 
vain I am of every little mark of her kind distinction.) 
Miss Gunning, Lady Dartmouth, y c Dss D r of Portland 



OF MRS. DELANY. 201 

came to tea, when T; ,v 1). and Miss Gunning went away at 
i). The l>ss and I went into Mrs. Delany's bedroom, and 
I told her w 1 S r W m Hamilton had said ab 1 y" VASE and 
antiques, ands tiled y 1 matter. Mrs. Carter, i\Iiss Burney, 
and I went away at 10 in y° Dss's coach. We first set 
Mrs. C. down, and then I was set down, and Miss Bur- 
ney parted from me. 

Friday, 9>" Jan*, 1784. Clargea Street. 

Bead in K. E. whilst my hair was dressing. At 10 
o'clock y e Dss D r of Portland's coach came for me. I 
call'd upon my uncle W m at y e hotel. I left a note from 
y e Dss for him ; went to y e Dss ; staid w tb her till past 4 
looking over fine gems, antiques, miniature pictures, &c, 
out of y e beautiful cabinet, the inside of w ch was painted 
by Polemberg, &c., &c. ; had y e Dss coach, and went to 
S r W rm Wakes, where I din'd. He din'd at table, though 
he was carried into y e room by y e serv* 3 . 

Saturday, 10 th Jan. 

Got up before 8 o'clock. A. M. came and read to me 
till one o'clock in R. E. Mrs. Boscawen call'd for me ; 
w r e went together to her daughter, Mrs. Leveson, who 
shew'd me a new botanical work ; saw 3 of her boys, fine 
children. Lady Wake came, and we had a comfortable 
tete-a-tete till near 11. I shew'd her manuscripts, read 
letters, &c, and talk'd of dear dear Mrs. Delany. 

Sunday, 11 th Jan. 1784. 

Mrs. Vesey call'd after church, and sat a little w th me. 
Miss Gunning came for me ; we went together to Mrs. 
AValsingham's to dinner ; met there Dr.Warton and Miss 
Burney ; after dinner talk'd of Dr. Young. Mrs. W. 

PART II. — VOL. III. P 



202 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

shew'd us a locket, in w c " was enclosed a piece of 
King William's coat, w ch was extracted out of a wound 
given by a comon bullet at y e battle of y e Boyne, w ch 
Lord Coningsby got, &c, lie being by his side at y e time. 
Also a ring, 3 rose diamosndset straight, w ch was y e great 
first Lord Cokes; this motto in y e inside, " prepare;" 
this ring, a horse, and ten pounds and a rapier, being 
all he set out in life with, &c, &c, &c. Miss Gunning 
went away at 7, Miss Burney soon after tea. T went up 
w 4h Miss Boyle to her room, and she shew'd me y e fan 
she has painted for Lord Shannon's daughter for her 
marriage. Mrs. Duff was there ; I spoke to her. Mrs. W. 
and Miss B. were going to L dy Juliana Penn's ; they set 
Dr. Wharton and me down at Mrs. Delany's, where we 
met y e Dss Dow r of Portland and Lady Bute, and we 
staid from 8 till 10, and pass'd y e time very pleasantly. 
Heard Lady Bute and y e Dss talk much of y e late Queen 
Caroline, her affectation of learning, &c. Lady B. told 
me that Lady Suffolk informed her y t y e Queen's cloaths 
came only to 3000/. pr. an., and her coronation robes to 
6000/., and how she served Lady Suffolk ab* y e jewels, 
&c. 

Monday, 12th. 

Mrs. Delany sent y e Dss's coach for me at 11 o'clock* 
I call'd in my way to her house upon my uncle W m . 
He came down to me, and talked with me for some time, 
and gave me a note he had written to speak to y e Dss 
ab t y e vase, &c, &c. He told me Mr. Graham was with 
him, and that he was going to y e House of Commons 
w th him to hear y e debates. I then went to Mrs. De- 
lany ; found her charming well, T answer'd a letter for 



OF MRS. DELANY, 203 

her to Mr. Dewes, w cl1 occasioned us much mirth, as I 
took y c liberty to answer it in a very saucy manner. I 

Mrs. Delany y a private character of Lord Bute, w ch 
she gave me. She spoke much of Lady Bute, and drew 
a m f her mind and character: T 

look'd over shells, &c. Mrs. and Miss Beckingham came 

in. Came home at 2 o'clock ; found Mrs. and Miss Hamil- 
ton waiting for me. Mrs. II. came to tell me my cousin 
Charles Cathcart's conduct in y e Indies, of y e credit lie 
had gain'd, &c. Miss H. play'd and sang several songs. 
I read Bas Bleu ; wrote to Lord Napier. 1 

Tuesday, 13th J any, 1", - 

I wrote notes, &c, to put Miss Burney and Mrs. 

Carter off from going to y e air balloon. Mr. Gumbleton of 

and came at 3, and staid \ an hour. He brought me 

cornp 4 *, &c., from his wife, who teas a Miss Hamilton of 

Bath, &c. At § past 4 went to Mrs. Walsingham's to 
dinner ; met there my uncle, S r W m H., S r Joshua Eey- 
nolds, Dr. Warton, Mrs. Montagu, and Mr. Montagu 
her nephew, Miss Gregory, Dr. and Miss Burney, Mr. 
Pepys ; a very agreeable dinner. I sat next to Dr. War- 
ton. We sat long after dinner — till 8 o'clock — and 
S r W" entertain'd y e company w th anecdotes of y e Nea- 
politan Court, &c. I left most of y e company there, and 
went to Mrs. Bosca wen's a little before 9. Met there 2 
Mrs. Burrows, Mrs. Pepys (Mr. Pepys came in after), 
Mrs. Buller, Mrs. Leveson. Conversation was upon y 6 
merits and demerits of Mrs. Siddons, &c. Mrs. Leveson 
and I staid after y° rest. She brought me home near 11 
o'clock. _ 

. Vtli Baron Napier. 



204 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Wednesday, 14th Jany, 1783 (? 4). 

Y e Duchess of Portland sent her coach for me. Was 
w th her from \ past 10 o'clock till past 4. We arranged 
a cabinet of agates, &c, &c. 



Miss Burney 1 to Mrs. Delany. 

St. Martin's Street, 

Jan'y 15 th , 1784. 

Miss Burney presents her best respects to Mrs. De- 
lany, and is truly sorry it is out of her power to have 
the honour of waiting upon her to-morrow ; but she has 
an appointment with Mrs. Ord to accompany her to the 
last rehearsal of a new opera, which begins at 12 o'clock, 
and will not be over till four. Miss B. is extremely 
obliged to Miss Hamilton for her very kind use of secret 
influence, and both grieved and mortified not to be able 
to benefit from it. She hopes Mrs. Delany will have the 
indulgence to admit her some day in next week, though 
she dare not hint at such a wish for the Vase, lest it 
should be impracticable. 

[In Mrs. Astley's handwriting.] 

" Mrs. Delany depends upon Miss Hamilton notwith- 
standing." 



1 This note proves the formal and respectful terms in which Miss Burney 
addressed Mrs. Delany — the note must have been sent to Miss Hamilton, as 
it was with her Diary. It appears that Miss Hamilton had asked Mrs. Delany 
to receive Miss Burney with her, and that Miss Burney wanted also to see the 
Vase, which had then been purchased by the Duchess of Portland, but which 
Miss Burney says she " dare not hint " at, " lest it should be impracticable." 



OF MRS. DELANY. 205 

Miss HAMILTON'S DIARY. 
Thursday, 15* Jan>', 1784, 

Dress'd for all day. Mrs. Carter call'd, but I did not 
see her, as 1 was dressing, so she made her visit to Miss 
Clarke's at 1 ; had y e Dss D r Portland's coach ; went to 
Mrs. Delany for a few minutes; saw her well. Mr. 
Bryant came in as I was coming away; went to Miss 
Try on ; looking very ill ; went to y e Dss of Portland's. 
My uncle W m came at y e same time, and she shew'd him 
many of her fine things. He staid till \ past three ; 
they talk'd over and settled y e affair of y e vase. He left 
her y e Augustus, Mosaick ring, y e Hercules. I staid till 

past 4. Called for Mrs. Carter at Sir Middleton's ; 

went together to y e Vesey's ; a large meeting ; my uncle 
S r W m came there. Miss Clarkes and I and Mr. Cam- 
bridge staid supper. We came home \ past 12. Miss 
Gunning, whom I met this evening, told me y e P. of W., 
whom she saw to-day at Court, sent his comp t8 to me. 

Friday, 16th Jan?, 1784. 

Dress'd for all day. At 1 o'clock Mrs. Boscawen came 
to go to see y e vase ; at \ past 1 , Lady Wake, Mrs. Carter, 
Dr. Warton, y e 2 Miss Clarkes. Mrs. Boscawen and 
myself set out ; call'd for y e two Miss Gunnings at St. 
James's ; went in Lady W. and Mrs. B.'s coaches. I 
took them to my uncle, S r W m Hamilton's, who had been 
so good as to allow me to bring my friends to see y e Vase. 
Mr. Pepys, whom I had promised, also joined us, and a 
Mr. Legge, a young clergyman, was there. My uncle 
was very obliging, and shew'd it them 2 by 2 at y e same 
i time, and he gave me y e Jupiter, y ( ' Benvenuto Cellini, 
fee., to show y m whilst he shew'd y e Vase. We left him 



20G LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

at \ past two. Miss Gunnings and I went in Mrs. 
Boscawen's coach. She set y m down at St. James's, and 
me at Mrs. Delany' s. I found that dear woman very 
well and in spirits. She talk'd of my uncle W m , and I 
of y e Queen, &c. ; went np to y e Dr. room at 6. I wish'd 
her to repose, but she did not but for a few minutes. I 
sorted and emptied drawers of shells for her; looked 
over a book of prints, and conversed. Lady Mary and 
Miss Hume, and y e Dss came ab fc 7 o'clock. Y e Dss 
did not stay long ; she went to Lady Weymouth, who 
came to town to-day. She call'd me out of y e room, and 
beg'd me not to go till she return'd. Lady Mary and 
Miss Hume staid some time ; when they were gone Mrs. 
Boscawen came, and y e Dss came again ab* \ past 8 
o'clock. We had a good laugh about my attacking Mrs. 
B. about y e paper napkin for her ivorh I staid till near 
10. Y e Dss shew'd us y e Augustus, Hercules, and Mosaick 
ring. Mrs. Delany sent Miss A. C. some potted lam- 
perns. Went to bed at 12. I sent to enquire after all 
y e ladies at y e Queen's house to-day. 

RIDDLE, 1 BY DEAR MRS. DELANY. 
My first is y e terror of timid and young, 

My second disgraces the heart and y e tongue ; 
"But when join'd together y° grave and y e wise 

Are gain'd by my charms and allow me a prize. 

PLANTS FOUND IN THE PEAK OF DERBYSHIRE, 1763. 

1. Giant-throat Wort. 

2. Shining Downfoot Cranesbill. 

3. Great yellow Heartsease. 

4. Climbing Fumitory. 

5. Horn Moss. 

6. Myrtle-leaved Cranberry. 

7. Apple Rose. 

8. Scarlet Cup Moss. 



1 Sprightly. 



OF MRS, DELANY, 207 

L766. 

1. Knotted Par 

2. Purple and Yellow Heartsease. 

real Tufted Wood Vetch. 
•!. Brittle Fern. 
r>. Lancashire Ashphodel, 

6. Mountain Averna. 

7. Cloud Berries. 
Bloody Gnne's-Wll, 

0. Marsh Saxifrage. 

The blue Iris is lb and about a mile from Bedford in 
the Woburn Road in the ditches, near the race ground. 



Court Dewcs, Esq., to Miss Hamilton. 

Welsbourn, Jan. 13th, 1784. 
Without meaning any disrespect to Mrs. Astley, I 
cannot tell how to be sorry, madam, that Mrs. Delany 
lias followed his Majesties' example and changed her 
secretary, however my vanity may suffer by it, as I pur- 
chase y e pleasure of receiving y e new minister's despatches 
at y e expense of having my own looked into w th a very 
penetrating eye, tho' if I were disposed to defend a little 
inconsistency (w ch , as it looks like a remains of youth, I 
am half unwilling to explain away) I should not think it 
a very difficult task to do it. May you long continue to 
consider a cold as a serious distemper, and never be 
taught by woful experience that you are very well off 
when you have nothing worse to complain ; I wish you 
no worse for your second charge than that I could give 
you a taste of the hurries of a Warwickshire Xmas ; you 
would then be convinced y l y e life I believe you lead, 
(I am sure that I lead in London) is tranquillity to them. 
It's to your last instance of inconsistency you will allow, 
when you look at th^ person to whom you are reading 
your letter, t! . mind does not always grow old with 



208 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

the body ; when I am so old as to be insensible to the 
beauties of y e country and the approach of spring I shall 
care very little what becomes of me ! So much for my 
own inconsistencies. What will you say if I presume 
to think you are not entirely free from them, if you 
meant to alarm and keep me at home ? You should 
criticise in a less agreeable manner, or I shall hardly be 
afraid of the criticism, or cease to wish to meet the critic. 
As I am unwilling to frighten you at your first entrance 
on your office with a load of business, and hope to have 
the pleasure of seeing Mrs. Delany so soon, I will not 
trouble you long on her account at present ; I will only 
say how happy we all are that she continues so well 
thro' so severe a winter, and how much obliged to you 
for your kind assurance of it ; that I expect my neice on 
Wednesday and shall set out on Thursday, and look 
forward with y e greatest pleasure in y e hope of dining in 
St. James's Place on Fryday ; y* I will not give her the 
trouble of taking lodgings for me, as I have engaged 
one at No. 20 Cecil Street, within two doors of my old 
one, w ch will be ready for me when I come to town. All 
our circle are pretty well, y e dreadful colds are almost 
gone. All join iu best love and duty to Mrs. Delany. 
My brother Bernard begs to offer his best respects to 
yourself. If I go on much further you will say it is 
very inconsistent I should complain of hurry and teize 
you with so long a letter. In fact I am very apt to 
forget myself when I am conversing with you ; but 
other calls will be heard, and allow me only time to add 
that I am, with great truth, 

Madam, your most obliged 

And obedient humble serv 1 , 

Court Dewes. 



OF lOta DELAXV. 2C9 

Mrs, D(hun/ to Miu Hamilton, 

22nd Jan., 1784. 

Mi deab Friend, 

I shall be glad to sec you for an hour on Mon- 
day, and for the whole afternoon on Wednesday, and 
hope to reward you for your goodness to me by treating 
you with our dear Dutchess, who, I thank God, is 
very well. Send me a dozen proposals of the milk 
woman's 1 or I shall lose some favourable opportunity. I 
have seen a great deal of the world since we met, I have 
been indeed but very indifferent, but am better, and if 
I see you well and in spirits I shall be still better. 
Going to bed, so good night. 

Affectionately yours, 
M. D. 

Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

Feb. 5th, 1784. 

It is an age since I saw you, my dear Miss H. I am 
famish 9 d. When shall I see you and tell you 

I am, faithfully, &c, &c, 

Yours, 

M. D. 

Will you this evening or to-morrow ? or when you 
will ? 

Indorsed by Miss Hamilton — " Mrs. Delany's own dear hand- 
writing." 



1 Anne Ycarsley, a milkwoman, born at Bristol abont 1756. A volume of 
her writings was, under the auspices of Hannah More, published by sub- 
scription in 1785. 1 1 : principal publications wen — "Poems on Various 
dwin," a tragedy ; and "The Royal Captives," a romance. 



210 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

Friday, 13* FebT, 1784. 

Have you engaged an equipage to bring yon and Mrs. 
Carter here a little before 4 ? If you have the Dss B r of 
Portland will take care of you home in the evening. — 
Tho ? frozen without I am imvardly as warm as you can 
wish me to be. 

Yours, 

M. D. 



Miss Port to Miss Hamilton. 

Sunday, 22^ Feb'y, 1784. 
Dss of P— 's Birthday. 

Dear Madam, 

My aunt desires I will tell you that she hopes 
you will come this evening to tea, or any time after 7 
o'clock, for she thinks it an age since she had that happi- 
ness ; and you will meet company that she thinks you 
will have no objection to see ; and A, D. wishes for no 
other addition. And I am, 
Dear madam, 

Tour much obliged, humble servant, 

G. M. A. Port. 



[Mrs. Astley to Miss Hamilton. 

St. James' Place. Saturday noon. 
March, 1784. 

Madam, 

I can with pleasure inform you that Mrs. Delany 
is much better for the loss of a little blood, which Mr. 



OF MBS. DELANY, -1 1 

Young- thought highly necessary ; the Bishop of Win- 
chester and his lady are now with her; but she lias sent 
word out that she will he most happy to see Miss Hamil- 
ton to-morrow evening, and will settle with the Dutchess 
of Portland about her coach this. — lam, madam, with all 
due respect, your much 

Obliged, humble servant, 

A. Astley. 

The following lines were written by Mrs. Delany, and probably 
addressed to her niece 1 — 

ON THE FIRST OF APRIL, 1784. 

Now the Season of Folly is past 

Let reason possess y r sweet mind, 
And point out those joys that will last, 

Of knowledge and pleasures refin'cL 

The following lines were also written by Mrs. Delany, to amuse 
her little niece — 



Hold yourself straight — mind time when you dance, 

Sink gracefully — and hound with ease ; 

(Xo affectation, (f you please ;) 

The polish of the person, and the mind 

Is gentleness, with spirit join'd. 

Your task perform'd — then curts'y low, 

And Mr. French will say — Bravo ! 

Your busyness done, and you at case 

To take your game at spilakees ; 

May conquest crown y r dext'rous touch ! 

I never can express how much 

I wish you every grace and Prize 

That can endear you to the good and wise. 

M. D., in ye 85th y r of her age. 



1 Then between 12 and 13 years old. Mrs. Delany used to say that al! the 
seeds of good and evil were sown before twelve years old, and that according 
to the impressions received daring those years would, materially depend the 
• i r in after life. 



212 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The following letter has neither date nor signature, but is evi- 
dently from the Duchess of Portland, and must have been 
written before 10th April, 1784, on which day Lady Mansfield 
died. 

My dear Miss Port, 

I have just had a most melancholy account of 
dear Lady Mansfield's 1 health ; she was seized yesterday 
morning. I fear there is little or no hopes, and must 
beg you will break this melancholy news in the tenderest 
manner to your dear aunt, who I know will share in my 
affliction. 

Lady Andover sends word she will wait on Mrs. 
Delany this evening ; it is unlucky ! for I am only fit to 
be with your dear aunt without other company ; but 
it cannot be put off, and I will come. My best love to 
your dear aunt. 



On the 1st of May in this year (1784), Mrs. Delany wrote as 
follows to Mrs. J. Dewes (born De la Bere) — 

I shall have a very good opportunity of sending 
G. M. A. to Welsbourn with a safe guard — Mrs. Mary 
Astley. I do not care to part with my dear girl till 
after she has been at Miss Boyle's ball, which will be 
about the 24th of this month. I must soon set about a 
very disagreable work — removing china, pictures, and 
books in my drawing-room, to have it new-papered and 
whitewashed ; and tho' I thank God I enjoy as much 
health as I can expect at my age, I am very soon sensible 



1 Elizabeth, Countess of Mansfield, daughter of Daniel. 6th Earl of Win- 
chelsea, died 10th April, 1784. 



OF MIIS. DELANY. 213 

of fatigue, and feel as it' I cou'd not support another day 
of trouble — notwithstanding which I had the courage to 
obey their Majesties 5 commands in waiting on them at 
the Queen's house last night with the I hichess of Port- 
land. It was quieter than one of my own drawing- 
rooms; nobody there but the King and Queen, the 5 
princesses, and Lady Charlotte Finch. It was next to 
the music-room, where we had a very fine concert. T feel 
myself very languid to-day, but not otherwise the worse 
for the honour conferred upon me. G. M. A. spends the 
day at Mrs. Andrew Foley's to meet the young Mor- 
dants. Lady Waldegrave died suddenly a few days 
since. 1 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

St. James's Place. 
Sunday, 9th May, 1784. 

My dear Miss Hamilton, 

It is an age, since we have meet. I hope you 
will come soon and give an account of yourself. I have 
been put into a little hurry by the agreeable surprise of 
Mrs. Sandford's arrival last Wednesday. The heat 
makes me good for nothing, did not my esteem for you 
stamp some merit on your affectionate 

Friend, 

M. D. 

I have fretted at your and Mrs. Carter's calling here 
in vain. I sent my young emissary after you the next 
day, but you were lied. 

1 Elizabeth, fifth daughter of John, Earl Gower, married, in 1751, John 
3rd Earl Waldegrave. The Countess of Waldegrave died 28th April, 1784. 



214 LIFE AND COKKESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

23rd May, 1784. 

I hope you are out of town, as you had better be 
there, (if I do not see you.) The weather is so hot, that 
I cannot send my usual messenger to you, and I will 
suppose that has hindered your tripping over here. Let 
me know how you do, and believe me, 

Faithfully yours, &c, 

M. Delany. 

P. S. Will you come to drink tea with me this even- 
ing ? Do you go to Mrs. Walsingham to-morrow ? 

Were you flirting at the P. of W — 's breakfast ? 
Were you hopping at Mr. C — 's ball ? 

Mrs. T. compliments, Mr. T. is " gone over the hills 
and far away." 

[Added by Miss Port — the same letter.] 
My dear Madam, 

'Tis an age, since I have seen you, and my aunt 
pines after you. She has dictated this note to me so by 
bits and scraps, that it is quite a riddle. 

G. M. A. Pout. 



Miss Port to Miss Hamilton, 

24th May, 1784. 

Dear Miss Hamilton, - 

A. D. desires to know how you do to-day. She is 
better for the rain, begs you will say exactly what you 
would have her say to the Dss D. of P. about West- 
minster Abbey. 

Adieu, ever your obliged, 

G-. M. A. Port. 



OF MKs. DELANY. 215 

Miss Pari to Mitt Hamilton. 

26th May, 1784. 

Mi d r Madam, 

A. D. is pretty well ; thanks yon a thousand times 
for your kind enquiries. She has been at the Abbey to- 
day, much charmed, bogs best love to you. The D r 
is pretty well, but did not go today. 

Ever yours, 

G. M. A. Port. 

A series of performances, in commemoration of Handel, 
were given in the year* 1784. The first took place at West- 
minster Abbey, Wednesday, May 26, 1784. The second per- 
formance was in the Pantheon, the others in the Abbey. A sum 
of £6000 was given from the proceeds to the Fund for Decayed 
Musicians, and £1000 to the Westminster Hospital 



Miss Port to Mrs. Anne Vincy. 

St. J. Place, May 28th, 1784. 

My dear Madam, 

I was much concerned to find by a letter I re- 
ceived from Ham, that you were kind eno' to express 
some sort of mortification, from not hearing from me. 

You know, my d r madam, that the 25th is my d r 
A. D's birthday, 1 upon which day the Dutchess Dow r of 
Portland, the Bishops of Worcester and Exeter, Mr. 
Fred k Montagu, and Mr. Bryant dine with her, and 
spend the evening, but just before dinner-time there was 
a tap at the door, and who should enter, but Lady Wey- 
mouth just come from their Majestys to desire Mrs. 



' 25th May, new ttyld 



216 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Delany's company at 8 o'clock, and to spend the rest of 
the evening, so all our design for the evening was frus- 
trated. At 8 o'clock she and the Duchess of P. went, and 
when they had been there a little time the Queen told 
Lady Weymouth to tye a string round my A. D's neck, 
and at the end of the string was the King's picture set in 
gold and diamonds, and the Q — n beg'd Mrs. Delany to 
accept it. I cannot avoid beging leave to congratulate 
you on the marriage of Miss E. Yiney. 
I remain, d r madam, 
Your obliged, 

G. M. A. Port. 



Miss Barney to Miss Hamilton. 

30th May, 1784. 

My dear Miss Hamilton, 

The increasing illness of a friend who has long 
been sick, had made me, among other things, give up 
even Hampton for Monday ; and my father settled to go 
himself with Mrs. Ord, not presuming to hope for the 
honour of your company tete-a-tete. But I have just 
now had intelligence that my suffering friend, who lives 
in the country, is somewhat better. I will not, there- 
fore, refuse myself to-morrow's regale. But may I, 
dear Miss Hamilton, beg a hint how you go, — whether 
with Mrs. Yesey, and whether the 4th place in her 
coach is yet unoccupied ? If it is, I shall apply to her to 
have the goodness to make me one in her party. 

Pray pardon this trouble, and believe me, dear Miss 
Hamilton, 

Your, &c. &c. 

F. B. 



OF BIBS. DELANY. 217 



Tlie Hon. Jfrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Ihlany. 

GHao Villa, 
Sunday evening, June, 1784. 

I was thinking all day yesterday how I shou'd like to 
know that my dear Mrs. Delany was quite well at Bul- 
strode, tor then I shbu'd be sure she was happy, and yet 
1 had neglected to ask her to send me a line from thence ! 
In the evening my son arriv'd, and brought me in y r 
letter a kind and welcome information of all I wanted to 
know, for my dear friend never forgets. The weather 
I think you have bespoke, for your foe Apollo keeps his 
distance, and seems as far from us as he is wont to be in 
October. I came hither last Wensday evening ; I have 
lighted up my billets, and enjoy'd a crackling fire. To- 
day Mr. and Mrs. Cole arriv'd by appointment to break- 
fast, and went with my son and I to church ; afterwards 
we visited Mrs. Williams. We found it very cold in our 
walks, but these northern regions are, I believe, many 
degrees more so than Bulstrode. Mrs. Leveson spent 
the day here on Friday, and next morning repair'd to 
Bill Hill, where she hopes for the pleasure of your 
company when the Duchess goes to Margate ; my little 
bower, too, will lay in its claim, if I am here. Your tur- 
bulent nephew Sir Francis Basset 1 has fail'd in his first 
petition, and our friend Mr. Hawkins of Trevethen is de- 
clar'd duly elected for Mitchell, 2 in preference to Mr. 



1 Francis Basset, of Tehidy, Esq., in Cornwall, was created a Baronet, 
24th Nov., 1770, and advanced to the Peerage as Baron de Dunstanvillc, 
17th June, 17UG. He died 5th Feb. 1835. 

: 2 " Duly elected for Mitchell:'— On the 11th June, 1784, Christopher 
Hawkins was found duly elected for the borough of St. Michael's, Cornwall. 
Roger Wilbraham not duly elected. 

PART IT. — VOL. III. Q 



218 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Boger Wilbraham, one of S r Francis's moveable candidates, 
for he set him up at Truro too, and has presented a peti- 
tion there too, and another at Tregony, where our friends 
had a majority of 21 ! I hope Sir Francis will continue 
to have the same success as he has had in this first 
attempt, w ch was decided in Parliament last night, and 
my son brought me the agreeable news. Other I know 
not, unless it be true that Miss Jemina Yorke is to 
marry Mr. Pole Carew l of Anthony in Cornwall. He 
is a very accomplished young man, and, therefore, likely 
to recommend himself to Mr. Yorke's favours, as well as 
the young lady's, but his estate not large, I believe. 
Adieu, my dear friend, (my pen is very bad,) but I am, 

as you know, most 

Faithfully yours, 

F. B. 
I beg my respects to the Duchess. 



Extracts from a letter of Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Frances Hamilton. 

Bulstrode, June 22nd, 1784. 

According to your kind wishes, my dear friend, I 
answer your last letter from Bulstrode. The Duchess 
D. of Portland came here a fortnight ago, but it was not 
in my power to attend her last Wednesday ; my dear 
child 2 could not conveniently go home till that time, and 
Mrs. Sandford 3 being in town made me unwilling to lose 

1 The first wife of the Right Hon. Reginald Pole Carew was Jemima, only 
daughter and heiress of the Hon. John Yorke, fourth son of Lord Chancellor 
Hardwicke. The marriage took place Nov. 18th, 1784.. 

2 Miss Port, of 11am. 

3 Mrs. Sandford (Sarah Chapone), sister-in-law to Hester Mulso (Mrs. 
Chapone, the well-known authoress), and mother of the late Dr. Daniel 
Sandford, Bishop of Edinburgh. 



OF MBS, hklany. 219 

their company. Our dear and valuably Mrs. Sandford, 
always the same delightful friend, and over sincerely 
attached to yon, T think is tolerably well in health. Her 

noble spirit is trying her utmost efforts for the sake of 
her sons, and struggling hard with her delicate constitu- 
tion, but. I think it maintains its ground beyond what we 
could expect. Her two eldest sons 1 are at Oxford ; her 
third son on the seas, towards Newfoundland; all going 
on to her heart's content, and much in favour with their 
preceptors. Her son William is to pursue law; and 
Mrs. Sandford is now in London in order to place him 
there to the best advantage. As you are so kind as to 
enquire particularly after my dear girl (no longer little) 
I can with pleasure tell you that she is in perfect 
good health ; sensible, pleasing, quick of apprehension, very 
good-humoured, and well-disposed. With these qualities 
you may be sure she has been a very agreeable com- 
panion to me; but her dear mother has too strong a 
claim to a share in her company for me to entirely 
engross her. The Veseys, I believe, will remain in 
England another year : but I cannot give a very good 
account of their health. Mr. and Mrs. Vesey and Mrs. 
Hancock are in a very declining way ; but still have 
spirit enough to engage in the tumult of assemblies, or 
at least in large parties of company. Poor Mrs. Vesey 
is so deaf that when she is in company she carries her 
stool and cushion from one end of the room to the other, 
to be near those that are engaged in conversation. I 
thank God my own health is such as I ought to be very 
thankful for, feeling very gently the decay of nature ! I 

i Jolm, who succeeded to his father's estate, and Daniel Sandford, after* 
wards Bishop of Edinburgh, 

Q2 



220 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

am always happy to hear of the health and happiness of 
my friends in Ireland, and feel that gratitude towards 
them which they so highly merit. Now, according to 
my usual custom, I must give you an account of my past 
life and actions regarding royal favours. As soon as the 
bitterness of winter was over I received the King and 
Queen's commands to attend the Duchess of Portland to 
the Queen's House at eight o'clock in the evening ; there 
was no company there hut the five princesses and Lady 
Charlotte Finch. There was a concert of music in the 
next room, which (the door heing open) we heard in a 
very agreeable manner. The King walked backwards 
and forwards between the rooms ; had a great deal of 
conversation with the Duchess of Portland ; and did me 
the honour of sharing it with me sometimes. We had 
much talk, particularly about music ; and his Majesty 
condescended to order those pieces of music to be played 
that he called my favourites. The Duchess of Portland 
sat on the Queens right hand, and I on her left. Pier 
Majesty talked to me a great deal about books, and 
especially about those on religion, and recommended to 
me an explanation of the four Evangelists, translated 
from the German ; and the next morning she sent me a 
present of the work in three volumes. 

The old 14th of May (which my dear and valuable 
friends in Ireland so often made a day of delight to me) 
is not quite laid aside ; my young niece takes upon her- 
self every year, on its return, to invite a select set of 
company, not exceeding six persons, to dine with me, 
but on the last a summons was sent to me from their 
Majesties, that, " as they were informed it was my birth- 
day they must see me!' Nobody there but the Eoyal 



OF Mils. DBLANT. 221 

Family, Lady Charlotte Finch, and Lady Weymouth, 
who was the lady oi' the bed-chamber in waiting. It 

dors not become me to say the gracious, kind, and 
Battering manner with which they received me. The 
Queen ordered Lad}' Weymouth to tie about my neck a 
small medallion of the King, set round with brilliants; 
but the resemblance, which is very great, and the gra- 
cious manner in which it was done, makes it invaluable. 
I cannot enter into a long detail of the commemoration 
of Handel, performed in Westminster Abbey, the effect 
was wonderful, and I had the courage (having a very 
easy opportunity of going into the Abbey) of hearing 
it four times. Yesterday morning their Majesties, 
accompanied only by Lady Louisa Clayton, breakfasted 
here. 

M. Delany. 



Miss Burney to Miss Hamilton. 

Norbury Park, July 10th, 1784. 

I can by no means bear to wait so long as till next 
winter before I entreat my dear Miss Hamilton's pardon 
for my apparent neglect of all her kindness during the 
last month of my stay in town ; but as she knew the 
uneasiness which dampt all my pleasure, even in the 
charming party at Hampton, I hope when she hears 
that the fatal termination 1 of that suspence made me 
wish for nothing but to hasten into the country to 
recruit both my health and spirits, she will forgive 
my silence, omissions, and various misdemeanours, and 



1 "The fatal termination" possibly alludes to Mrs. Thrale's marriage to 
Mr. Piozzi. 



222 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

receive next winter with her wonted good humour, and 
agreeable smiles, 

Her obliged, humble servant, 

F. BuRNEY. 

If Mrs.Vesey is still in town may I beg you to present 
my best respects to her ; and may I entreat you to have 
the goodness to tell both her and Mr. and Mrs. Pepys 
when you see them, that nothing but a string of the most 
uncomfortable circumstances should have prevented my 
waiting upon them before I left town. 



Mrs, JDelany to Miss Hamilton. 

25th July, 1784. 

My dear Miss Hamilton, 

I feel I must go to London to-morrow, my spirits 
wont bear another desolate day in this house ; but I 
wish you cou'd bestow an hour upon me to-morrow 
morning should the day prove fair, as I don't propose 
going before 5 o'clock. Our dear friend is just gone ! 
Believe me 

Most affectionately yours, 

M. D. 
I spend this afternoon with Mrs. Sandford. 



The Duchess of Portland to Mrs. Delany. 

Margate, July 31st, 1784. 

My dearest Friend, 

I am truly grieved to hear you have been ill, but 
depend upon your assuring me you are much better, I 
think you were in the right to go to town ; hit is not 



OF BIBS. DELANY. 223 

the smell oC the paint disagreable to you? And why 
won'd you not go to Whitehall ? which you kuoiv, 
my dearest friend, was at your service. I am very 
glad you were to be with Mrs. Sandford the next clay, 
as it will make" yon both happy. I troubled her with 
a letter in regard to Ramsgate and this place. Lord 
and Lady Willonghby left us yesterday; which I am 
sorry lor, as she is von agreeable. Mr. John York 
likewise leaves this place next week. I spent a very 
pleasant evening with them last night. Mr. Swainson 
will be a good acquisition ; he shot three or four birds 
for me yesterday, and is gone out to-day trawling, or I 
shou'd have gone to have seen his collection. And he 
has introduced a friseur, not for the purpose of curling 
my hair, but of stuffing birds, who is quite a curioso ; and 
collects medals and all sorts of things. I have a charm- 
ing horned owl sitting by me that I have purchased of 
him. 

I am sorry you have had so much rain ; we have had 
some, but it clears in the evening ; and now I have made 
all my visits I shall indulge myself in taking the air. I 
hope my dear friend has had good accounts from Ham, 
Calwich, and Welsbourn. My good wishes attend them. 
Kind compt s to Mrs. Sandford and Miss Hamilton. I 
am pure well, and ever my dearest friend's 

Most affectionate 

M. C. Portland. 

My dearest friend will indulge me with a line ; I shall 
not be easy till I hear again from you. Heaven preserve 
you I and let me entreat you to take care of your health, 
so precious to all that are dear to you. 



224 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



The Duchess of Portland to Mrs. Delany. 

Margate, Aug. 14th, 1784. 

My dearest Friend, 

I am quite unhappy not having a letter from you 
these three days ; my apprehensions suggest you are not 
well ; God forbid that shou'd be the case. Vesey tells 
me you were well when she came from London, but I 
suspect she had not seen you for some days ; in short, my 
dearest friend, you see the effect of your kind indulgence, 
and I presume too much upon it ; I am afraid it is being 
very unreasonable. Oh how glad I am with the thought 
that the time approaches for our meeting ; and that I 
have only a week and a few days more to stay here ! My 
health is so good, and the air has agreed with me better 
than usual from the cool weather. Just as I finished 
the other side came in Lady Mary Hume and her sick 
daughter, and she has stay'd till my dinner is coming 
up. On Monday I am to have a turtle dinner (only 
think of it). For Mr. Yesey, — he goes on as usual. I 
have not seen Mrs. Hancock yet ; but Mrs. Vesey sat 
with me last night, as Lady Charlotte has told her I 
don't visit in the evening after my airing. I have had a 
most obliging and kind congrat n from the Dow r Lady 
Aylesford. Have you heard from Mr. Dewes from 
Buxton ? I hope he is very well. I am very much 
surprised at Mrs. Sandford's going to Tunbridge. I 
thought the sea air and bathing had been necessary ; but 
perhaps her son likes Tunbridge better? It is so hot. 
Oh for a closet of ten foot square to the north. How 
does Miss Hamilton ? When is she to be married ? I 
shou'd have scribbled to her, but I am tired of that 



OF MRS. DELAXY. 225 

employment, and I have nothing to tell her that cou'd 
amuse her. My best oompt* to Mrs. Sandford. I 
hope you have good accounts from Ham, Calwich, &c. 
And, my dearest friend, take care of yourself and do write 
to me — as you love 

Your most affectionate 

M. C. Portland. 



Mrs. Ihlany to Miss Hamilton. 

17th Aug., 1784. 

I was fretting and fuming that I had put off our 
party to Sherwood this fine cool morning when your 
message came to quiet my spirits, and reconcile me to 
the disappointment — as I find I could not have had your 
company. I am very glad Sir Will m Hamilton 1 is come 
to town — I hope in perfect health and spirits. I shall 
be happy to see you both as soon as you can bestow that 
pleasure on your 

Most affectionate and obliged 

M. D. 

P.S. Let me have a flying moment of you as soon as 
you can. 

St. James's Place. Tuesday morning. 



1 The Rt. Hon. Sir William Hamilton, Envoy Extraordinary to Naples 
from 1764 to 1800. 



226 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

18th Aug., 1784. 

I shall be quite happy to see you and Sir Will m 
Hamilton at half an hour after eleven, according to your 
appointment. I am pretty well. The Dutchess very 
well. The day not fix'd for her coming. Lady Bute is 
just coming in, or I wou'd say more. 

Yours, 
__ M. D. 

23rd Aug., 1784. 

If you are returned safe from your expedition, when 
shall I see you? M. D. 

I will call on you at 6 o'clock this evening by return- 
ing an airing. 

TIw Duchess of Portland to Mrs. Delany. 

Margate, Aug. 20th, 1784. 

My dear Friend, 

A thousand thousand thanks : your dear letter 
has relieved me from great anxiety. It was very un- 
reasonable, but I could not help fearing you were not 
well ; indeed, you have made me quite happy. This letter 
can't go till Sunday, but I must tell my dearest friend, 
how comfortable and easy I feel since I received yours ! 
and how very much I long to see you. Thank God ! it 
is not far off, and next Tuesday I hope nothing will pre- 
vent my leaving this place. Besides wishing to be at home 
for various reasons, this weather is so tempestuous, the 
roaring of the sea and the weighing of the anchors is 
melancholy beyond description; we have had nothing 



OF MRS. PKLANV. 227 

but rain, and expecting the house to bo blown down since 
Monday last ! Mrs. Yesey is very good to. come to me 
in an evening. Mr, Cambridge l said he wou\l call on 
you. I have i^ot a new acquaintance. Miss Harris ; she is 
I very tgreable woman, I think you wou'd like her. 
What will you think of me ? sitting by a fire from the 
18th of August, and hnd g it very comfortable; it is the 
only chearfull thing here, I read the newspapers constantly y 
only think how much I am at a loss to spend my time ! 
If I had imagined this weather wou'd have continued, 
I shou'd have set oft* last week. In short, I will say no 
more, for I can think of nothing but quitting this place, 
which I most impatiently long for ! Everybody is gone 
but charming Lady Mary Hume. My dear Mrs. Anne 
has sent me a kind of zebra from Lady Mills. 

I am very glad Lady Jerningham is so happy to have 
the Chevalier, and that the venison came a propos. 

I approve of Miss Hamilton exerting her authority, 
and not letting you go to Kenwood. My best love, and 
thanks. Mrs. Yesey sends her love. I am very glad yoit 
have had the comfort and pleasure of Mrs. Sandford's 
company, and rejoice she did not come here in all this 
bad weather ; my affectionate comp u attend her, and 
good wishes to all her family. I am very sorry Mr, 
John l)ewes is not as well as you cou'd wish, but hope 
he will still find benefit from Buxton. I rejoyce Ham, 
etc., are well. I am, my dearest friend, 

Your most affectionate, 

M. C. Portland. 



1 Richard Owen Cambridge, a wit, and writer of the burlesque poem called 
"The Scribleriad," as well as some papers in "The World." He died at 
Twickenham in 1302. 



228 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



TJie Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, 7th Sept., 1784. 

Pretty young gentlemen you entertain, my dear 
friend, and very kind you are to them, and very good 
news you announc'd to them; they knew not a word of 
the arrival of a brother (William 1 ) till you told them. I 
hear you look very well. We have at last delightfull 
weather, and I shou'd grudge spending it in London, on 
a less pleasant account ; indeed I came but yesterday, and 
shall return to-morrow or next day. Meantime Mrs. 
Leveson is arrived to see her sister, and I thought to 
have ran away with her, to see how the magnolia blows 
at Glan Villa, believing Mr. Leveson was going on an 
Admiralty survey to the ports. But no such thing ; so 
all my scheme is disappointed. She tells me Lady 
Gower is very well, and meditates a morning visit to 
Bulstrode ; if it should take place soon after you receive 
this, say not a word of this rumour, for her ladyship don't 
love praters ! 

I think this secret, if it be one, cannot reach you till 
Thursday, for I got the frank for the wrong day. Dont 
you hate this long manuscript by way of a direction ? My 
son us'd to have the honour to be franker to your lady- 
ship, and now 'tis all waste paper! and that paper taxd. 
To say the truth I do particularly dislike Mr. Pitt's taxes ; 2 



1 William George Henry, seventh son of Henry, 5th Duke of Beaufort, was 
born Sept. 2nd, 1784. 

2 On the 23rd July, 1784, the Chancellor of the Exchequer (Mr. Pitt), in a 
Committee of Ways and Means, proposed several alterations in the taxes : 
the 1st was an increase in the postage of letters ; the 2nd a regulation 
respecting franking letters, a privilege which had been much abused, and 



OF MRS. DELANT. 229 

/ dorit think he has a good assortment, and calling tlicm 
u commutation n does nol mend the matter! I know no 
news, as you may believe when I am reduc'd to criticiz- 
ing the premier, I can, if yon please, transcribe you a 
paragraph ofy'&vonrite Miss Savers' letter from Tun- 
bridge, "I went with Lady Dart ivy to a very pleasant 
breakfast Mr. Sheridan 1 gave; I had the honour to 
sit next to Lord Mansfield, and to make his tea, which I 
delighted in, because I had an opportunity of hearing 
his conversation, which was as lively and as pleasant as 
possible ; indeed, his recovery seems most perfect. After 
breakfast Mr. Sheridan read passages out of Milton, and 
Drydens ode, and Gray's elegy," &c. &c. So far Miss 
Savers, who is also the better for Tunbridge ; her physician 
is Dr. Bowdler. 2 It was old Sheridan, you see (by the 
reading,) and perhaps he receives money for these break- 
fasts, while his son en-senateur compiles game laws, which 
makes all our squires enrager, for they vow it is for the 
encouragement of poachers ! Adieu, my dear friend. The 
Duchess of Beaufort charg'd me to return you her 
best thanks. She is out of her chamber, and as well, I 
thank God, as anybody can be that must submit a little 
to resemble a mummy in this weather. 

F. B. 



which he proposed should be dated both as to time and ]>lace ; the 3rd was a 
duty on licences to kill game ; and 4th, duty on gold and silver plate brought 
to be assayed. 

1 Thomas Sheridan, the actor and lecturer on elocution. He died in 
1788. He was the son of Dr. Sheridan, the friend of Dean Swift, and the 
father of Richard Brinsley Sheridan. 

2 Dr. Bowdler, author of "The Family Shakspeare," and brother to Mrs. 
Harriet and Mrs. Frances Bowdler. 



230 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

'Die Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Dclany. 

Audley Street. Tuesday evening, 1784. 

My dear Friend, 

Having had a conference yesterday with Molly 
Butcher, T drew out of her that you had been unwell, 
and had been let blood. I might perhaps have heard 
better news if I had been lucky enough to have avail'd 
myself of a kind visit Mr. Dewes made me this morning ; 
but I was gone to see Mrs. Leveson's infantry, who 
arriv'd yesterday. Therefore, my dear madam, you will 
not wonder if I petition Mrs. Astley to write to me once 
within a day or two to tell me whether you are perfectly 
recover 'd — even according to my earnest wishes. My 
daughters are both with me, and so are my grandsons. I 
have set them to cribbage while I write, and I interrupt 
them to ask for news. The ladies answer that they beg 
their best respects to the Duchess of Portland and Mrs. 
Delany ; but they do not proceed to tell me news. You 
know, I suppose, that Lady Dow r Carlisle 1 has been come 
to England some time since, and resided at first with her 
daughter, Lady Anne, 2 but has now taken a house in 
Lower Brook Street. The House of Commons sat till \ 
past 4 this morning ; and Mr. Fox's bill was carried by 
a majority of 114. 3 It comes on in the House of Lords y c 
9 th ; and it is said his Boyal Highness intends to give 
his first vote upon this great question ; but whether this 
is true I cannot answer. Lord Carlisle 4 has wrote a 



1 Isabella, daughter of William, 4tli Lord Byron, second wife and widow of 
Henry Howard, 4th Earl of Carlisle. 

8 Lady Anne Howard appears, by Burke's Peerage of 1859, to have died 
Unmarried. 

3 Mr. Fox's. 

i Frederic Howard, Earl of Carlisle, published, in 1783, "The Father's 



Of .MRS. DELANY. 231 

tragedy entitled The Father's Revenge, upon the old 
story in Dryden's Fables of Sigismnnda* I did not hear 

that it was to be acted. Mrs. Siddons is ill, and gone 

into the country till she recovers. Mrs. Walsingham I 
have seen ; she and her daughter in very good health ; 
her son is in Ireland. My dear madam, I hear so much 
of "fifteen two " that I don't know what I write, and you 
must excuse all faults. You will be pleas'd to tell her 
Grace that Paoli was in such raptures at the idea of the 
thriving family, that he presently convey 'd all their pos- 
terity to A Vales and Cornwall, and peopled in imagination 
the mountains of both with mouflons. 1 

I hope the Duchess has receiv'd Mr. Jenyn's Disquisi- 
tions, 2 w ch I left myself with the porter at Whitehall. 
My best respects wait on her Grace, and kind compli- 
ments to Miss Hamilton. 

F. B. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street. 22nd Sept., 1784. 

I return you many thanks, my dear friend, for 
your kind remembrance of me. Mrs. Leveson and I 
remain here to gossip, for else our dear convalcscente 
wou'd be left entirely to her book, since there is nobody 



Revenge," a tragedy, and other poems. He also wrote " The Step-Mother," 
a tragedy. The Earl of Carlisle married, in 1770, Margaret Caroline, 
daughter of Granville Leveson Gowcr, 1st Marquis of Stafford. 

1 The " mouflon," mentioned by Mrs. Boscawen in a former better, dated 
June 11, 1770, as u Madame Mouflon," appears to have been the Capra 
Amnion of Linnaeus; [the Musmon, a goat-like sheep which inhabits the 
Tartarian deserts, and (he wildest parts of Corsica, Greece and Sardinia. 

2 Disquisitions on several subjects, by Soame Jenvns, born in London, 
M, died 1787 ; was published in 1782. 



232 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

in town of her acquaintance. The Duchess Dow r of 
Beaufort is at Tunbridge for her health. Mrs. Leveson 
means to return in a few days to Bill Hill. Mr. Leveson 
is at Portsmouth with Lord Howe. 

Yesterday arrived safe from France my good friends 
Lord and Lady Mount Edgecumbe, intending to pay 
their duty at St. James's to-day, their Majesties' Coro- 
nation day ; but I doubt if my poor lady can go, for I 
think she is very unwell, and looks sadly. I was with 
her last night, as were Lady Harcourt and Lady Cado- 
gan. 1 Lady M* Edgecumbe observ'd how little proba- 
bility there was when she left England that at her 
return she shou'd be presented to her Majesty by her 
friend Lady Harcourt, and apropos of nouveaux convertis ; 
I hear your friend Mr. Mason is a very dutiful admirer of 
his Majesty, so I think he will again be your guest, 2 
my dear madam, on a certain auspicious day next year, 
and meet a worthy prelate at your table. This will be 
quite a restoration, and I am glad of it ; I only wish it 
had happen' d sooner ! 

I am glad you have had the pleasure of so ingenious, 
so agreeable a companion as Miss Jennings ; for her sake 
as for yours 'twas a pity you parted so soon. 

F. Boscawen. 



1 Mary, daughter of Charles Churchill, Esq., second wife" of Charles Sloane 
Cadogan, 1st Earl Cadogan, from whom she was divorced in 1796. 

2 This alludes to the political sentiments expressed by Mason the poet, 
which had very much shocked Mrs. Delany. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 239 

The Hon, Mrs. Botoawen to Mrs, Dttany, 

Glan Villa, L8th Oct., L7SI. 

I do believe my dear friend will think anything of mo 
rather than that I am insensible to her kind remem- 
brance, or ungrateful] tor it. Certainly T am not; but I 
have been sirk, very sick, and very suddenly so while it 
lasted (for now, 1 thank Qod, I am entirely well again, 
hut,) this day se'enight, coming down to breakfast in 
perfect health, and ordering my chaize to go and w^ait 
upon Miss Murrays, at Ken Wood, I was taken ill before 
I had began my break last, w ch breakfast was postpon'd 
full eight-and-forty hours, and I had for the first time in 
my life a bilious disorder, w** affronted me very much, 
being so unus'd to ail anything. There is a good physi- 
cian at Barnet, who was by no means so amaz'd at my 
being sick as I was, and who, by proper medicines and 
God's blessing, has restored me entirely to my usual 
health. And this, my dearest madam, is the true reason 
why I did not immediately thank you for the great 
! pleasure you gave me by that pleasing sketch of Bull- 
i strode ; for to hear that the Duchess is well, and that 
i you are so, and that you have society yon like is 
very delightful to me at all times. Fine weather you 
have had ; and I trust you tolerate Apollo in October at 
least? You take pleasant airings. Perhaps you walk. 
I am sure Miss Hamilton does, and culls many sijlo/rer 
(for I durst not call them weeds), I have not set my 
poor foot in my garden these 8 days ; but I have been 
out in my chaize, and went to the gate at Ken Wood on 
Saturday to inquire after my lord's health (of w ch I had 
very satisfactory accounts from Miss Sayer at Tunbridge) 

PART IT. — VOL. III. R 



23 4 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

and I learnt his lord p was at Bulstrode, w ch I was very- 
glad to hear. All well at Bad 11 and Bill Hill. Mrs. 
Leveson is remov'd to the Adm lty l to my great loss, and 
there has set up her lit de misere, to w ch she repairs the 
end of this month. I purpose to make her a visit, but 
not to settle in Lon n quite so soon. My son and sposa 2 
are very cheerfull in Cornwall, giving balls to their 
neighbours ; while y r nephew Basset is waging most 
inveterate war and hostilities at Truro. My son has all 
the love (they say), but then he (S r F.) has all the money, 
la partie nest pas egale ! Miss Hamilton will read this 
bit of French for Mrs. Astley, and she will also read 
that I am much her humble servant and wellwisher on a 
certain good occasion w ch I imagine is not far distant ! 

My best and most gratefull respects always attend the 
Duchess ; and I am, with great truth, 

My dearest friend, very affectionately, 

Yery faithfully yours, 

F. Boscawen. 

My paper is greasy, or surely I should write better. 



1 The Hon. John Leveson Gower was appointed one of the Lords of the 
Admiralty, Jan. 28, 1783, and remained in office till April 8, 1783. He again 
returned Dec. 30, 1783, and remained till Aug. 12, 1789. 

2 George Evelyn, 3rd Viscount Falmouth (youngest and only surviving 
son of the Hon. Mrs. Boscawen), married, in 1784, Elizabeth Anne, only 
daughter and heiress of John Crewe, Esq., of Bolesworth Castle, co. Chester. 



<>l MBS. DELANY, ^35 

Right Hon. Ifodtrick Montagu to Mrs. Delany. 

My dbab Madam, frpplewick, Oct 22ml, (Qy. its4). 

I wain very much to know all the particulars of 
the royal visit at Nuneham, as I hear that our poetical 
friend was there. Did he my grace? Did he repeat 
Did he read prayers ? Or what did he do ? 
[fone was wicked enough an excellent account might be 
given of what functions he performed at Nuneham! 
Could not you get your friend Mr. Smelt to write it ? 

I have been in Yorkshire and at Melton with the 
Weddells. They admir'd that place as it deserv'd. 

I entirely agree with you (against Burke) about air bal- 
loons. I am tird of reading about them in the papers, 
tho' I am out of the way of them ; tho', indeed, if I could 
mount in one and breakfast with you at Bullstrode, and 
return to look at my building here before dinner, I 
might be reconciled to them. 

I beg my respectfull compHo the Dutchess of Portland, 
and am y" most dutifully, 

Fred. Montagu. 

In Nov., 1784, King George III., who, with Queen Charlotte, 
had frequent communications and conversations with Mrs. 
Delany on the subject of Handel's music, expressed his wish 
that Mrs. Delany would procure from her nephew the catalogue 
of her late brother's (Mr. Granville) fine MS. collection of 
Handel's music, which had been written, under Handel's own 
inspection, by his amanuensis Smith for Mr. Granville, whose 
organ at Calwich was built by " Father Smith " under Handel's 
direction, and was played upon by Handel. The following 
letter was written to Mrs. Delany by Queen Charlotte, on 
returning the catalogue, inclosing one from the King on the 
same subject. 

it 2 



238 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Letter from Queen Charlotte to Mrs. Delany (written with her own hand). 

I have the pleasure of returning dear Mrs. Delany the 
catalogue of Mr. Granville's collection of music, with a 
note from the King, which will sufficiently prove how 
much he is satisfied with the manner in which she has 
executed his commission. I avail myself with pleasure 
of this opportunity of assuring one of the worthiest of 
our sex of my sincere regard and esteem. 

Charlotte. 

Windsor, the 7 th Nov** 1784. 

I beg my compliments to the dear Dutchess of Port- 
land, and hope to hear that she is as well as I wish her 
to be. 



Letter from King George III. to Mrs. Delany (in his own handwriting). 

Windsor, Nov. 7th, 1784. 

The King is much pleased with the very correct 
manner in which Mrs. Delany has obligingly executed 
the commission of obtaining an exact catalogue of Mr. 
Granville's collection of Mr. Handel's music, and desires 
she will forward it to Dr. Burney ; at the same time, as 
Mrs. Delany has communicated Mr. Granville's willingness 
of letting the King see those volls. that are not in the 
list of his original collection, he is desired at any con- 
venient opportunity to let the following one's, be sent to 
town, and great care shall be taken that they shall be 
without damage return'd : 

No. 19. Opera of Amanets. 
22. Teseo. 
25. Amadisce. 



OF MRS, DEL ANY. 237 

35 and 86, Vols, of Duets. 

37. Miscellanies and Water Musick, 
As also the Quarto manuscript of a song composed by 
that great Master in eight parts, beginning', cc Still I 
adore you, tho 1 you deny me." 



The lion. Mrs. B to Mrs. Dcliny. 

7th Nov., 1784. 

My dear Friexd, 

I shall hope soon to have the pleasure of a little 
word from you dated Bulstrode, for that which was 
dated St. James's Place did not please me at all. Her 
Grace is very good to repeat her orders for me to come 
to Bulstrode. I hope I shall have that great pleasure, 
and will let you know some days before. Here is Miss 
Saver, writing out Le Bas Bleu l for you ; she leaves me 
next week. When my Duchess will come I cannot tell 
yet. I wish when she does, she may find it possible to 
prefer the last to the first of her candidates. I told you 
she intended to see both. 

Is not Dr. Kay, 2 a friend of yours ? If so I wish you 
joy of his deanery. Young Mr. Sandford may be his 
chaplain, I think, when he leaves college, for the Morn- 
ing Herald informs us that he is a great patron. I told 
you that my friend the Governess of Jamaica had given 
me in one of her letters a very pretty picture of our 
sailor Prince, 3 and here it is inclosed. Mrs. Williams I 



1 Hannah More's " Bas Bleu" was written in 1784. King George III. 
desired to have a copy made by her own hand. 

2 The Very llw. Richard Kaye, Dean of Lincoln, younger son of Sir John 
Lister Kayc, succeeded to the Baronetcy on the death of his brother in 1789. 

3 His Royal Highness Prince William Henry was placed under the care of 



238 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

saw yesterday. Miss Yonge is in town. The Burrows 
all gone, so I know nothing of Mrs. Chapone. Lady 
Grower in a course of publich breakfasts with Mr. and 
Mrs. H. Grenville ; she meets Mr. and Miss Yorke, walks 
a mile or two afterwards, and in short is quite gay. 
Mrs. Leveson, who has the honour to attend her, assures 
me she has no time to write this fine weather, now they 
are " in a course of breakfasts." I hope you are well, my 
dear friend. God keep you so ! to the unexpressible satis- 
faction of your 

Affectionate 

F. B. 



Extract from letter of Mrs. Campbell, ivife of Major-General Archibald 
Campbell, Governor of Jamaica. 

" We have been greatly honour' d by having Prince 
"William Henry for our guest, during his stay, both 
times in this island. His Eoyal Highness, and Lord 
Hood left us this morning, as they sail to-morrow for 
England. 

" Prince William's great condescension, and pleasing 
manner, has endear'd him so much to us all, that we felt 
infinite regret at parting with him, and as he has pass'd 
near 4 weeks with us, upon the most intimate footing, 
we had opportunities of observing the natural goodness 
of his disposition, and that he promises to be an honour 
to his country and profession, which I am inform'd he 



Sir Samuel Hood, in the " Barfleur," at Sandv Hook, about Oct., 1782. On the 
22nd of Nov. the fleet sailed for the West Indies, and entered Port Royal in 
the island of Jamaica, " where it remained during the winter, to the great joy of 
the inhabitants, who received the Prince with every demonstrable testimony 
of affection and respect. The Prince made a tour of the islands and returned 
to England, landing at Spithead on the 26th of June, 1783." 



OF MRS. DELANY, 239 

takes groat pleasure in, and understands thoroughly ; and 
I have no doubi thai he will distinguish himself greatly 
whenever an opportunity oilers. He is a handsome like- 

i of both King and Queen, with the most animated 
interesting countenance 1 ever saw. He has an amazing 
(low of spirits, and great good humour, with a quickness 
of observation that nothing can escape, and a wonderful 
good memory. '' 



Tlie lion, Mrs. Boscaiuen to Mrs. Dehmy, 

Audley Street, 
Monday, 8th Nov., 1784. 

You know, my dear friend, that to get a frank in these 
times, is more difficult than to fly in the air. Your cousin 
Mr. Leveson is out of town, on a visit to his lady mother 
at Bill Hill, and her ladyship meditates one to Bath, not 
quite fixed, I believe, and is in very good health, but 
thinks her knees have never quite recovered the ugly 
fall she had long ago, and that the warm baths may be 
of use to her : as I hope they will, if she goes. My 
daughter has spread her lit de miser e at the Adml ty , w ch 
seems a journey from hence, so that I take my work and 
sit all day with her now she is alone. This evening we 
purpose to visit Mrs. Vesey, of whom we heard yester- 
day a very good account from Lady Edgecumbe, who 
came from her fire-side to ours at the Admiralty, where 
we had also Mr. and Mrs. Cole. I almost wish myself at 
my cabin to-day, having a little scheme in the garden, 
and some planting in hand, I spend half the week there : 
my poor servant Keeble having been so very ill that I 
almost doubted her recovery ; but I left her last Satur- 



240 LIFE AND COKRESPONDENCE 

day, thank God, in a fair way to do well, and hope she 
will have made a progress by the time I return to her on 
Thursday. Mrs. Leveson has put off her retirement till 
the 20th. 1 I always dread the hour, tho' I have long 
since given up hearing or seeing it ! I beg to present 
my respects to the Duchess, and many good wishes to 
Miss Hamilton. I shou'd like to be 3d at breakfast 
and fourth at supper ! But I can have no such indul- 
gence, tho' very sensible of the permission, and always 
my dear friend, 

Most faithfully yours, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 

10 at night. 

Mr. and Mrs. Vesey, and Mrs. Hancock all well, and 
the evening very pleasant with Mr, Walpole only, for 
when the Dean of St. Asaph came in, we made our 
retreat, and he is now telling the story of his tryal. We 
heard but of. one event, and that, alass ! a very melan- 
choly one — the death of Lady Drogheda, 2 respected and 
beloved by all that knew her ! She dy'd in Ireland 
after a week's illness of a fever. My little maid has this 
minute brought me such a letter from Bulstrode, that if 
I had as many hours as I have minutes I cou'd not 
sufficiently acknowledge. 



1 Elizabeth Leveson Gower was born Nov. 19, 1784 ; married, 1803, John 
Tillie Coryton, Esq., of Pentillie Castle, Cornwall, and died 1824. 

2 Charles, 6th Earl and 1st Marquis of Drogheda, married, Feb. 15th, 1766, 
Anne, daughter of Francis, 1st Marquis of Hertford. She died Nov. 4, 1784. 



OF MRS. DELANY, 211 

If the following letter to Miss Hamilton were without a 
signature, it would be recognised as the composition of the same 

vu'nd as the 1 Mary o( Madame d'Arblay. Miss Burney appears to 
have begun to emerge from the respectful self-abasement of her 
former stylo, and to appear more like her real self. 

Miss l!iini> 11 to Miss Hamilton. 

fforbtny Park, Nov. 11th, 84. 

Now am I under a very great difficulty whether to begin 
a letter to my dear Miss Hamilton with congratulations 
or apologies : and the more I ruminate upon the matter, 
the less I can satisfy myself; for congratulations seem 
too early and apologies too late. 'Tis really a sad thing 
that either you did not hasten the propriety of one of 
these subjects, or that I did not myself seize upon the 
other before I became ashamed of making use of it. 
Yet to write, and take no notice either of what is ap- 
proaching on your part, or past on mine is impossible. 
Thus distressed, what remains to be done ? Shall I wait 
the arrival of that period which gives me one theme 
clear of all difficulty ? Alas, no ! for that same delay 
will so increase the claims of the other, that ere they can 
all be appeased, my paper must be swallowed up. One 
only expedient occurs to me ; a certain gentleman, whom 
yet I must not name, is probably as little pleased with a 
certain lady's procrastination, as she can be with mine ; 
well, then, if she should be very severe with me, I shall 
beg Am opinion upon this question : viz. Whether to 
postpone dull apologies for silence, is half so bad as to 
postpone lively occasions for congratulations ? 

And so, till I hear his sentiments, I shall defer the 
prosecution of my cause. 



242 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Without, therefore, any apologies, let me thank you 
for your kind letter ; without positive congratulations, 
let me sincerely wish you happy ! 

I have long known your taste for the cypher of M. D. 
I cannot, therefore, be much surprised you should be 
content to write a signature you have so often been 
content to read. 

Nov'- 19th. 

Various provoking circumstances have retarded this 
poor sheet of paper from having the honour of presenting 
itself to your fair hands at an earlier period. And now 
since my return to town, a certain person, known by the 
name and appellation of Dr. Burney, enjoins me to give 
you, " his best compliments," and (I blush to write it,) 
Ci his hearty good wishes." "What he meant, I ventured 
not to investigate, but I observed a most significant 
smile, as he uttered those words. Not, however, that 
this contented him. Miss Hamilton ! these men ! 
They are wretched encroachers ! I give you warning in 
time ! He desired me to beg you would send him, 
through me, or in whatever way, you please, your notion, 
how the late Mr. Granville (our siueet Mrs. Delanys 
brother) should be distinguished? simply, (I believe,) 
meaning the place of his abode, by which he was most 
known : his purpose being to name all the collectors of 
Handel's works that come within his knowledge. But 
what is the most shocking part of this troublesome re- 
quest is his perfect confidence that you will grant it with 
pleasure ! Once again, my dear Miss Hamilton, take 
heed ! You see what sort of folks you have to deal with. 
I am happy in an opportunity of pointing out this 



OF MRS, DELANT. 24.°> 

matter to you before it is too late. T toll you nothing, 
because 1 know nothing, and as the world goes that is 
no small proof of scrupulosity. It is time, however, to 
entreat your pardon for this nonsense, and release 

you. 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your affec*, and most obed* humble serv 1 , 

F. BURNEY. 

So you would not meet me at Thames Ditton ? 

I wonder how you wore engaged ? I was told by 
Mrs. Walsingham, you were detained to transact business 
for Sir William. Doubtless that was all ! What an 
excellent niece 



Mrs. Delany to Miss Hamilton. 

Bulstrodc, Dec. 23rd, 1784. 

Happy as I am with the kind remembrances I have 
received from my dear Miss Hamilton, made doubly 
precious to me by being united with those of our dear 
and inestimable friend, I must speak a word or two for 
herself. Most sensibly have I missed my amiable morning 
companion ; my works have gone on slow and sad, till 
the enlivening hour of a summons to the drawing-room, 
and there I meet with a check from the sympathising 
lamentations at the board of cross stitch, and the table 
of diligence. " Where is Miss Hamilton and her manu- 
scripts ?" says our dear Duchess. " I have now no hopes 
of exaltation," says Mr. Light foot ? But Twill shift the 
subject of regret to that of hope, and console myself, with 
looking forward to Wednesday the 29th, or rather the 



244 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

30 tli, as I look upon you to be incapable of failing in any 
of your engagements, and I shall depend upon your eating 
" beef-steak," according to promise ; but should you 
not recollect it, I am sure my friend 1 (as I trust he will 
permit me to call him) will not (as I hope there is no 
danger) have left London before that time. 

I am willing to say more, but not able, and will not 
embarrass you with unnecessary compliments and wishes 
to those friends who may be so good to remember me, 
knowing you lose no opportunity of doing justice to your 
ever obliged and affectionate, 

M. Delany. 

P. S. Alas ! I am reduced to put on my cloak myself, 
but I bear in mind that kind attention, and many others. 

I am quite sorry for Mr. Walpole. If you send to en- 
quire after him, be so generous as to make a particular 
enquiry for me. 2 



Lines added hy the D r . Duchess of Portland to Miss Hamilton. 

My dear Friend, 

How can you ask if your journals are worth 
paying for to me ; they are of infinite value. Continue, 
my dear, I beseech you ! There has been such a bustle 
about the tables ; Mr. Lightfoot thought Miss Hamilton 
was returned to " exalt him" which he is sorry to find 
is not the case • his best respects and good wishes. Assure 
Mr. D. of my best compliments, and that health and 
happiness attend you, and those you love. Our dear friend 
is very well. 

1 li My friend" — Mr. Dickenson. 

2 Mr. Walpole was then suffering from a severe attack of gout. 



OF MRS. DBLANT. 245 

i, Delany to Miu Hamilton. 

Jan. 1st, 1785. 

Mrs. Delany's Love to Miss Hamilton, and will be 

happy to see her this evening it' she is disengaged, and 
would be glad if Bhe could bring Mrs. Carter with her. 
Mrs. Delany's cold sho hopes is better, but it certainly 

is not worse. .Many, many happy years. 



The Rev, IT. Gilpin to Mrs. Delany. 

Vicar's Hill, Jan. 13th, 1785. 
-» r Ten o'clock in the morning. 

I received your letter at nine : and answer it 
imediately. There was one expression in it, " I shall not 
be quite easy till I hear" <§'c. t which makes me not quite 
easy till I answer. 

Be assured, dear madam, there is nothing which gives 
me so much pleasure, as being told of my faults by my 
friends. Your desire w^ould have been sufficient to make 
me expunge the offensive passage. But the reason you 
give is convincing, that " political reflections have nothing to 
do with a work of that kind" Be assured, therefore, that 
as soon as ever the books come into my hand, the passage 
shall be expunged. 

But now, madam, (between you and me,) I cannot let 
Charles 2nd get out of my hands, without giving him 
one stroke. To tell you the truth, there are few characters 
in hi story, of wdiom I have so contemptible an opinion. 
That, notwithstanding the instructions and example of 
his father, (who was an excellent man in private life, what- 
ever he was in public ;) — notwithstanding the calamities 



246 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

and catastrophe of that unhappy Prince, which he had 
himself seen before his eyes; — notwithstanding the 
school of affliction in which it pleased Providence to 
place him, where, it might be supposed, he would have 
deposited some of his wickedness ; — notwithstanding 
the wonderful work of his restoration, for which, (if he 
had had any gratitude in his heart to his Maker,) one 
would have imagined, that event would have produced 
it ; — notwithstanding, all these things, and others that 
might be added, that he should become not barely a 
character which we cannot respect, but one of the 
most abandoned, profligate, corrupt, tyrannical irreligious 
princes that ever sat upon the English throne : I own 
to you, madam, that I cannot help seeing his character 
in so odious a light, that I can never speak of him but 
in terms of disgust. I hope you do not love him, — I am 
sure you cannot ! Your memory must be stored with 
excellent characters of various kinds, but I hope his por- 
trait does not hang among them ! for myself, I assure 
you it should never hang even in my house, unless it 
were a first-rate Sir Peter Lely ! Of one thing, however, 
dear madam, be assured, that my dislike to him arises 
from no political party tenets which I espouse ; I have 
no very extraordinary opinion of myself in anything, 
but in one matter I am rather inclined to think well of 
myself, — which is in matters of party. I verily believe 
there is not a man in England less addicted to party 
of any kind than I am. Honest men in public life, and 
good men in private, are the only party I wish to espouse, 
and with regard to the former, there is much fucus (?) 
that if I were obliged to take a party, like the lady in 
the poem I fear I should deliberate till I icas lost, 



OF MUS. DELANY. 247 

Dear madam, I am sorry that the worthless man lias 
taken up so much of my paper, when I have so many 
better things to till it with. I shall not send my re- 
spectful compliments to my Lady Duchess, because I 
wrote to her Grace by the last post. I am glad to 
hear your cold has left you, 
And am, madam, 

Your most obliged, and most obedient serv*, 

W. Gilpin". 



Miss Fort to Miss Hamilton. 

St. James's Place. Friday morn, 
4tli Feb., 1785. 

Dear Madam, 

As you desired me last night to inform you how 
my dear aunt was to-day, I have the satisfaction of 
assuring you she is much better than she was yesterday. 
She begs the favour of you to say what is right to Lord 
Stormont from her, as he came yesterday, and was 
not let in. If she had known it had been him, she 
would have seen him, tho' too much fatigued with com- 
pany in the morning to let in other people. 

G. M. A. Port. 



From King George ITT. to Mrs. Delany (in his own handwriting). 

The King has just received the copies of the three 
operas Mrs. Delany so obligingly borrow'd for him. He 
therefore returns the three scores, the two other books 
that accompanied them, as also the terzetto in the 



248 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

unrivalled author's own handwriting, and the beautiful 
song in eight parts ; and desires Mrs. Delany will express 
everything that is proper to her nephew for communica- 
tions that have been so agreeable. The King hopes 
when the spring is far enough advanced that he may 
have the pleasure of having that song performed at the 
Queen's House to the satisfaction of Mrs. Delany ; not 
forgetting to have it introduced by the overture of 
Badamistus. 

George E. 

Queen's House. Feb. 11th, 1785. 

The Granville collection of Handel's MS. music, in 38 vols., 
it is believed were all sent by Mrs. Delany to George III., but 
from some carelessness on the part of those entrusted with 
their return, only 37 vols, were ever received back, among which 
" the Song in eight 'parts " was not included, to which the King 
so especially alluded in his letter. 

The following volumes were those returned — 



1. Messiah. 


16. Scipio. 


2. Samson. 


17. Ariodante. 


3. Joseph. 


18. Alexander. 


4. Saul. 


19. Rinaldo. 


5. Esther. 


20. Hymeneus. 


6. Athalia. 


21. Rodelinda. 


7. Deborah. 


22. Otho. 


8. 11 Trionfo (Italian w^ords). 


23. Deidamia. 


9. Te Deums and Jubilate. 


24. L' Allegro ed 


10. Fifty Cantatas. 


sieroso. 


11. Israel in Egypt. 


25. Ricciardo. 


12. Acis and Galatea. 


26. Liroe. 


13. Amadigi. 


27. Tamerlane. 


14. Teseo. 


28. Admetus. 


15. Lotharius. 


29. Giulio Cesare 



il Pen- 






OF MBS, DBLANT. 249 

; ' , '" :;;: - * nthems - 37. 1 " Miscellanies," viz., Con- 

:;'• ,),htN - certante in 9 parts. 

•-• Organ Concertos. Water Music. 

;;,; - Instrumental Concei 
The above list is given, as it will be interesting to the admirers 
of Handel. The Editor has made many inquiries among persons 
best acquainted with his works, but has not been able to obtain 
any clue to identify the missing song in eight parts with English 
words. In addition to the MSS. here mentioned, which are all 
bound in separate vols., there is a Trio "Se tu non lasci amore," 
an oblong quarto MS., signed « G. F. Handel, le 12 di Luglio, 
1708, Napoli f and in a memorandum in the handwriting of Mr. 
Granville, on the last page, are these words—" This original is of 
Mr. &. F. Uindll's handwriting ; given y Mm tbo Mr. Bernard 
Granville, and is the only copy extant, as Mr. Handel told Mm 
when he gave it to him as an addition to Ms collection of musickr 
The music {nates) and words of this valuable composition are, as 
well as the signature and date, in Handel's own handwriting. The 
! collection also contains a curious Book thus entitled—" Krieger 
(Johann) Organisten und Chori Musici Directore in Zittau, An- 
muthige Clavier Ubung. Oblong 4 t0 , Nurnberg, ] 699." 

Mr. Granville has written the following memorandum with 

regard to the above work—" This printed book is by one of the 

< celebrated organ-players of Germany ; Mr. Handel, in his youth, 

'formed himself a good deal on his plan, and said that Krieger 

,was one of the best writers of his time for the organ, and,°to 

\ form a good player, but the clavichord must be made use of 

bg a beginner, instead of organ or harpsichord^ There is also a 

ritation Copy (to Mr. Granville) of Handel's "Suites des 

s" Vol. I., on which are these words in Mr. Granville's 

handwriting— "This book not published by himself, but full of 

nistakes in the coppying." 

I l It is to be observed that these numbers do not agree with the references in 
he letter of King George III. Very probably they were altered when rebound 
ftcr wards. 

part ii. — vol. irr. g 



250 LIFE AND COKRESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Delany never was able to trace the missing music, 
which wa.s the cause of much vexation to her, though it is pro- 
bable the King and Queen were never made aware of its loss be- 
fore her death. 



Extract of Letter from Miss Tort, 1 of Ham, to her Father. 

St. James' Place, 
Saturday, 12th Feb., 1785. 

As my A. D. writes to mama, and as it is my turn to 
write to you, it is with great pleasure I sit down to give 
you an account of what I have seen and done since you 
last heard. First, then, I commence by saying I had 
the happiness of seeing Lady Tweeddale last week ; she 
enquired after you and yours. Secondly, I have begun 
dancing with. Slingsby, and I like him much; he has 
made very good scholars, and is of course a very good 
master. Thirdly, I have begun music with Bichards, 
and I like him. Fourthly, I have been to see Lunard's 
beautiful balloon ; the gallery is white and pink satin, 
with gold fringe. He has a table and four stools in it. 
I should like to go up with him, provided he does not 
cross the sea, as there is no danger in the world ; for if 
it should burst it descends so gradually it is impossible 
to be hurt. He goes up the end of this month. Fifthly, 
and lastly, I go this evening to Lady Juliana Penn's ; 
my chaperones are Lady Dartrey and Miss Hamilton ; 
the latter is not, I fancy, near ehangeing her name yet ; 
(apropos, has Miss Betsey Beresford changed hers ?) I 
see by the newspaper that a relation has left Capt n 
Hanke's elder brother considerably. Have you seen 
Mr. Jerningham's lines on Mrs. Montagu falling down 



1 Miss Port was at this time thirteen years old. 



OF MRS. DELANY. *-ir>l 

stairs at the Drawing-room ; in case you should not I will 

write them. 

"Ye valiant Fair ! ye Bebes of the day, 
Who heedless laugh your little hour away, 
/.( / caution Jx your guide whene'er ye sport 
Within the Bplendid precincts of the Court. 
The event of yesterday for prudence calls, 
"1'is dan • ling where Minerva falls J" 

Poor Lady Gower is still alive, and that is all. I shall 
lose a good friend when 1 lose her! I feel thoroughly 
sensible of her kindness to me. 

I dine to-morrow at Mrs. Beckingham's, and spend the 
evening- with Mrs. Sandford. Mr. S. goes to Oxford 
Thursday. My aunt desires me to say that she is in 
tolerable good health ; but she is vert/ low, as she feels 
much for Lady Gower. 



Miss Port, of Ham, to Miss Ham Mod. 

21st Feb., So. 

My dear Madam, 

It is with pleasure I inform you, my dear aunt is 
better, and of course her mind is easier ! Lady Gower l 
is no more, she went off without a groan ! 

Ever yours, 

G. M. A. Port. 

The following verses were found with Mrs. Delany's MS., and 
were thus indorsed by the Editor's mother — 

" Written by the third wife of John, second Lord Gower, born 
Mary Tufton, daughter of Thomas, Earl Thanet, and widow of 



1 The Dowager Lady Gfowei died a Bill Hill, in Berkshire, on the 19th of 
Feb., 1785. 

s 2 



252 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Anthony Grey, Earl of Harold. She married Lord Gower in 
1736. Admiral Leveson Gower was her son, and he married 
Miss Fanny Boscawen, daughter of Admiral Boscawen, sister to 
D ss of Beaufort and L d Falmouth. Lady Gower was very kind 
to me, I used to go to Bill Hill with Mrs. Delany to see her. 

She was burned to death. 

« G. M. A. \Y." 

BY MARY, COUNTESS GOWER. 
[In her own handwriting.] 

'Tis thou, all gracious, y 1 to me, 

Such favours do'st dispense, 
The blessings y t attend my ways 

Are by thy Providence. 

One more I ask, compared to which 

The greatest here are small, 
Thy grace, Lord, give to my mind, 

Thou giving that, giv'st all ! 

Teach me w th pious care to pay, 

To Thee, my mighty debt, 
And to perform each social tye 

As in my station set. 

And w n my day of death shall come, 

And I go to my rest, 
Compleat thy goodness y n , Lord, 

And take me to thy breast. 

Thy wond'rous works who can behold 

Without delight, Lord, 
The structure of this beauteous world 

Created by thy word. 

Within this world all living things 

Speak evermore thy praise, 
All magnify thy holy name, 

To Thee their thoughts they raise. 

The poor, th' unhappy, and y e sick 

Give praise to Thee, God, 
Altho' w th pains thou tryest them 

And chast'nest with thy rod. 

Then how much more should I give land 

And thanks w th praise to Thee, 
Since all y e blessings of this world 

Thou hast bestow'' d on me ! 



OF MRS. DELANO 253 

The following- Prayer was found with the versos — 

PRATBB WRITTEN BY. MARY, OOUNTESS GOWEB. 

righteous Ruler of heaven and earth, who didst 

ordain diseases and distresses of every kind, in mercy to 
man to wean us from a vain world to be checks and 
chastisements of sin: guardians of virtue, and incite- 
ments to it ; oi' thine infinite goodness* and mercy, 
submit my soul, with patience, equanimity and humble 
resignation, to every dispensation of thy blessed, thy 
allwise, thy allmighty, thy adorable Providence ! And 
so order the course of this world and of my life, that I 
may upon all oeeasions, steadily pursue, and in thy good 
time, happily attain those gracious purposes, for which 
thy dispensations were ordained. Grant this, Father, 
for Jesus Christ's sake, thy only Son our only Saviour. 



Extract <»/ a Letter dictated by Mrs. Ddany to Mrs. Frances Hamilton. 

St. James's Place, May 19th, 1785. 

My little girl, 1 (who, indeed, now is a very tall one,) is 
still with me, and everybody tells me she improves in her 
appearance, and as much in every respect as I can expect 
from her years. My secretary, 2 (were she at liberty,) would 
say more. Her uncle Dewes comes to town to hear the fine 
performance of the Abbey music. The extreme coldness of 
the very long w T inter, kept me entirely at home ; but my 
fireside was enriched by the constant kind attentions of 
my friends and acquaintance, who preferred a warm room 
and a sincere welcome from one they are so partial to, to 



1 Ber niece, Miss Pore. 

•- Mrs. Airae Astley, net wniting-woman. 



i 



254 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

the dissipated manners of the times, which is, to live 
in public from morning till night. My health during 
this season, has been better than my years could pro- 
mise ; though sensible of that decay, which, though 
awful, is to lead me to that happiness I humbly hope for. 
Since I last wrote to you, I have had some intercourse 
with his Majesty again by the way of letters on his re- 
turning the books of Mr. Handel's music, which my 
nephew Mr. J. Dewes had lent him. The King sent his 
acknowledgements to my nephew in the most obliging 
manner ; adding that he would not ask me to come and 
hear it performed at the Queen's house till the spring 
was so far advanced that it might be safe for me to ven- 
ture. On Thursday the 9th of May, I received a note 
from Lady Weymouth, to tell me the Queen invited me 
to her Majesty's house; to come at seven o'clock with 
the Duchess Dowager of Portland, to hear Mrs. Siddons 
read " The Provoked Husband." I obeyed the royal sum- 
mons, and was much entertained. She fully answered 
my expectations, and her person and manner perfectly 
agreeable. We were received in the great drawing- 
room by the King and Queen, their five daughters and 
Prince Edward. Besides the royal family, there were 
only the Duchess Do r of Portland, her daughter Lady 
Weymouth, and her beautiful granddaughter Lady 
Aylesford; Lord and Lady Harcourt, 1 Lady Charlotte 
Finch, the Duke of Montague, and the gentlemen .atten- 
dant on the King. There were two rows of chairs for 
the company, the length of the room. 



1 George Simon, second Earl Harcourt, died April, 1809. He married 
Elizabeth, daughter of George Venables, Lord Vernon. 



OF MRS. DELANY, 255 

Their Majesties sal in the middle of the first row, with 
the Princesses on each hand, which filled it. The rest 
of the ladies were seated in the row behind them, and 

there was spar- between that and the wall, and the lords 
and gentlemen that wore admitted stood there. Mrs. 
Biddons read standing, and had a desk with candles before 
her : she behaved with greai propriety, and read two acts 
of "The Provoked Husband," which was abridged, by 
leaving out Sir Francis and Lady Wronghead's parts, &c. 
But she introduced John Moody's account of the journey, 
and read it admirably. The part of Lord and Lady 
Townley's reconciliation, she worked up finely, and made 
it very affecting. She also read Queen Katherine's last 
speech in King* Henry 8th. She was allowed three 
pauses, to go into the next room and refresh herself, for 
half an hour each time. After she was dismissed, their 
Majesties detained the company for some time, to talk 
ov r what had passed, which was not the least agreeable 
part of the entertainment. I believe it was past twelve 
before we made our last courtesy ; and I cannot say, 
though that was a very late hour to me, that I suffered 
from it, tho' I had tried my strength the week before by 
having been at two concerts ! 

The particular account you have sent me of your agree- 
able relations (such societies are rare) was very delightful, 
and you flatter me very much, when you say it " puts 
you in mind of ancient days at Delville," the recollection 
of which will ever be pleasant, though painful to me. I 
am sorry I cannot send you a copy of the letters you 
hint at ; but I have refused it to near relations, and 
though they would do me great honour, I think it is not 
prop . I could depend upon your discretion, but not 



256 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

on every one's in whose hands they might fall. The 
Duchess Dowager of Portland has had a had cough, hut is 
now hetter ; she always enquires after you in the kindest 
manner, and charges me with her compliments. Had I 
another page I could fill it with her goodness to me. 

Mrs. Sandford, always the same amiable creature, is too 
tender to venture out of her own house, and I have not 
been able to see her above three times. Her sons go 
on to her heart's content, and approved of by every- 
body. Mr. Vesey l is still alive, and that is all one 
can say : poor Mrs. Vesey in deep affliction, and in a 
very declining state of health : Mrs. Handcock, 2 I fear 
no less so ; but she supports them with her steady con- 
duct in the best manner she can : but what is human 
support if we do not look higher ? 

I hear ci The School for Scandal" 3 is to be got in Ire- 
land ; I beg you will procure me two copies. It has not 
been published in England. 



Court Deives, Esq., to his Brother the Bev. John Dewes. 

St. Allan's Street, Windsor, 
June 2nd, 1785. 

Dear Brother, 

If you can find y e Recovery Mr. Granville suffered 
of Finchley, y e Deed to lead y e Uses of that Eecovery, and 
y e Agreement between Lord Lansdown, Lady Granville, 
and Lord Gower, be so good as to pack y m up, and send 
y m directly to Mr. Pardon ; Bernard will assist you in 

i Agmondisham Vesey, of Lucan, Esq. 

2 Sister to Mrs. Vesey. 

3 "The School for Scandal," a comedy, by Richard Brinsley Sheridan, was 
first published in Dublin in 1785. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 257 

the search, they must be among j* writings at Cal- 
wich. 

It is now eleven o'clock. I was y - morning at y" music 
in v* Abby, 1 w 1 ' 1 ' was by far y* finest thing both for */;//// or 
sound I ( m r saw or heard; I think you and Bernard w d 
have born full as well entertained w" 1 it as w ,h y° host 
dav's fly-fishing you ever had! I reserve a more particular 
account till we meet, w rh I hope will not be long first. 

As y 1 is purely a letter on business, I will 'only add 
my kind love to all at Calwich, and y* I am, 

My dear br r , yours affectionately, 

C. Dewes. 

P.S. Mrs. Delany tolerably well, and she was at y e 
Ably y* morning I 



The Hon. Mrs. Bosccaven to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, Gth June, 1785. 

I have not written to you, my dearest madam, but I 
have enquir'd after you continually of Lady Bute, and 
had the satisfaction to hear that Miss Port was return'd 
to you, and that she was well, for she had been at the 
Abby, 2 and my servants told me they saw her call at the 



1 "June 3rd, 1785, a grand musical concert, from Handel's works, was per- 
formed in Westminster Abbey (yesterday) to a most brilliant audience of more 
than 2000 persons, and patronized by the Royal family. The instrumental 
performers amounted to GOO." 

1 "June Gth. The musical commemoration, at Westminster Abbey, was 
a^ain performed. It consisted of a selection of Handel's miscellaneous pieces, 
■rformers were the same as in the last concert, and the composition was 
admirably correct in all its parts. Their Majesties countenanced this perform- 
ance likewise v.irli their presei i 



258 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

next door to me (Mrs. Milles's), but if so I think she 
wou'd have call'd on me too ? I heard that you had had a 
visit from Mr. Young, (sent you by the best of friends,) 
and that you was entirely recover'd. My son has carry'd 
me to see a house that was to be sold. We saw, baited, 
and returned, for he went to London that night, and 
drop'd at Miss Saver's, where I lodg'd. This accounts 
for the marvelous part of my history ! Now I have 
bought Mr. Ross's at Richmond, because the house is 
larger, and is warmer than poor Grlan Villa, and more 
secure no doubt, being under the protection of the royal 
domains, between the gardens of Richmond and of Kew ! 
Now my business is to sell my sweet cottage with all 
its village charms, so rural, so pleasant that I am asham'd 
to tell you how much I regret it, and with what reluctance 
I abandon it ! At present I am going to reside there for 
a month, to take my last leave; my son, his wife, and 
child go with me, as it is full early for the lady to begin, 
as yet, her long journey into Cornwall. Every moment 
they bring me bills to pay, so I must hasten to answer" 
your questions. I saw Miss Murray s often while they 
staid, but now they are all settled at Ken Wood ; my 
L d certainly better than when he went to Bath, from 
whence Miss May return' d with a very bad cold; but 
visited me before she went out of town much recover'd. 
His Royal Highness seem'd very ill last Sunday, when he 
was blooded for the 7 th time, but slept well that night, 
and ever since the accounts have been more and more 
favorable, and his R. H. is certainly much better, so that 
they begin to talk of his removal to Kew for the air. 
And now I must take my leave, for here comes more bills 
and more questions to answer ! I will write to you again 



OF MRS. DELANY. 259 

from my poor pretty Glan Villa, whose morning bower 
has been so honour* d by you, and, indeed, it is much 
prettier than my now purchase, whore I see nothing but 
myself I however, the latter has its features of preference ; 
il is 1 / miles nearer to Mrs. Leveson, and in her road to 
London only a mile longer. Sho is well, but my poor 
Duchess had the ill-luck to sprain her weak leg the first 
day of the musick at the Abby, and has been upon her 
couch ever since till yesterday, when she got out, and her 
surgeon promises her she shall go to Badminton next 
Monday, w l ' h they are all very impatient for. My kind 
complim* to Miss Port ; I congratulate her on being 
restor'd to the best of friends, to whom I am always a 
most affectionate and 

A gratefull one, 

Witness my hand and heart, 

P. B. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Dickenson (born Hamilton), 

22nd June, 1785. 

Most heartily do I congratulate my dear friends on 
an union that promises so much mutual happiness, and 
among the number of their friends, none more warmly 
wishes them a long and prosperous enjoyment of this 
world's best blessings than their 

Most affectionate and faithful, 

M. Delany. 

Our dear friend at Whitehall, continues mendino-. N 
note from you has arrived. 

Thursday morning, 10 o'clock. 



260 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

On the 8th July Mrs. Delany writes to Calwich, on Miss Port's 
leaving her to visit her parents at Ham, " I lose a good child and 
a sweet companion ; but the more I am sensible of her merit, the 
more I am convinced I ought not entirely to engross it for myself. 
Mr. and Mrs. Dickenson propose going to Matlock on their way 
home, which I suppose will be the latter end of this month." 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Sandford. 

Bulstrode, July 11th, 1785. 

I know my dearest Sally will be glad of a line of intelli- 
gence to know how her friends do at Bulstrode. I thank 
God there is as much amendment as can be wished for 
in so short a time. Let me know how you do, and those 
you love ; and pray tell my Godson, if still in London, I 
wish he would call on Mrs. Dickenson to let her know 
the purport of this note, as I have not time to write to 
her. My spirits have not recovered their agitation of 
last Tuesday, 1 but on the whole, I am tolerably well, and 
Astley a good deal better. I think the tranquillity of 
this place will make us all well. Believe me 

Ever most affectionately yours, 

M. D. 

I wish I could send you some of our sweet air. Kind 
compliments to Lady Olive. 



1 This might have alluded to Miss Port's departure on that day, or to the 
Duchess of Portland's illness. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 261 



The Hon. Mm. Botcawen to Mrs, Delany. 

Clan Villa, y« 11 July, 85. 

Your ponderous debt, my dear friend, is safely come to 
hand. Knee you shew me that you don't mind a word 
1 Bay, very well,— and now how am I to convey my debt 
to you, (ignorant as I am what it is,) for a box full of 
golden pills : it is well my conscience is not so tender as 
yours, else I sh d be in danger of having my rest disturb'd. 
As for you, my dear friend, I hope you will sleep in 
peace now you have paid the fifteen pence over and above 
my bill. Well, I shall not forget I hope to put those 
pence among the golden pills, for I think you don't 
insist upon my receiving compound interest ? But now 
for a much more interesting subject, — the dear Duchess's 
health. Thank God it makes as much progress as the 
time since her Grace's removal will allow. I have read 
your account over and over, and like it so well, that I 
have sent it to Ken Wood for the satisfaction of Miss 
Murrays, lest they shou'd not hear so soon. I hope it will 
be every day more and more manifest, that it is exceed- 
ingly so ; and that perfect recovery will be the conse- 
quence. I know, my dear madam, you will not spare 
Mrs. Astley's hand, when you have good news to tell 
me on a subject w cb so truly interests me. Here is 
Lady M l Edgecumbe, who expresses most earnest 
wishes and desires, her best respects ; my lord is to come 
and fetch her home by-and-by, and both (I trust) arc at 
the eve of a great pleasure — the return of their precious 
son, who is expected in a few days. I carry'd my guest 
to Ken Wood last Tuesday. We heard that Mad e de 



262 LIFE AND COKRESPO.NDENCE 

Genlis L was a very genteel agreeable woman, much ap- 
proved by all there, not handsome but a good figure, and 
her manners easy, without the least affectation. She is going 
to Oxford, Bath, and I believe to Bristol to visit our friend 
Mrs. H. More. At her return, to leave England imme- 
diately. But I forget that this is a twice told tale, as you 
have seen Miss Burney. 

Adieu, my dear madam. A thousand good wishes 
attend, with the sincerest respects to the Duchess. 

Most gratefully, 

F. B. 

Pray mention Mr. Lightfoot's family in y r next. I 
hope you have heard of your fair niece's safe arrival. I 
thought to have had this frank'd, but L d M 1 E. does not 
arrive till Saturday. Irish affairs ! 



The Hon. Horace Walpole to Mrs. Dickenson. 

Strawberry Hill, July 19th, 1785. 

Dear Madam, 

By a postcript in a letter I have just received 
from Mr. .Keate, he tells me the Duchess of Portland is 
dead 1 2 I did hear at Ditton on Sunday that she had 
been thought dead, but was much better — still as it 
comes from Mr. Keate, and as you was so much alarmed 
when I saw you, (and indeed, as I thought her so much 
altered,) I fear it is but too true ! you will forgive me 



1 Steplmnie-Felicite-Ducrest de St. Aubin, Comtesse de Genlis, was born 
near Autun in 1746. She was appointed governess to the children of the 
Duke of Orleans, and lived to see her former pupil, Louis Philippe, King of the 
French. She died Dec. 31st, 1830. 

2 Margaret, Duchess Dowager of Portland, died July 17th, 1785. 



MBS, DELANY. 263 

therefore for troubling you with inquiring about poor 
^\Irs. Delany ! It would be to no purpose to send to her 
house. 

I did intend to be in town on Thursday, but Madame 
deGenlis lias invited herself hither on Friday. I am not 
sure i shall be able to go on Saturday. I am afraid of 
missing you, and I want to see our poor friend over 
against you. 

I see a French account of "poor Louisa" advertised — 
do you know anything of it? 

Pray forgive all this trouble ; but whom does one feare 
but good hearts ? The bad neither encourage nor indulge 
j but will Mr. Dickenson not think me impertinent ? 
Yet I am, 

Your most devoted, 

Hor. Walpole. 

The death of the Duchess of Portland was the third severe 
blow which Mrs. Delany was destined to experience after the 
deaths of her own parents. Her sister, then her husband, and 
last of all her friend, the sharers of all her griefs, her joys and 
her occupations, were one by one taken from her ! The illness 
of the Duchess appears to have been [of very short duration, as 
the Editor's mother recollected her coming to Mrs. Delany's 
house, in St. James's Place, before she left London, and saying, 
"Look here, my dear," and she pointed out to her spots of 
discolouration on Jier arms, about which the Duchess seemed to 
be perplexed. Miss Port left London, the Duchess went to 
Bulstrode, and the letter of Mrs. Boscawen, on 14th July, does 
not manifest the least alarm, though three days afterwards the 
Duchess died. Mrs. Delany was with her to the last, and then 
returned to her own house, feeling so truly convinced that her 
friend was " not lost" but only "gone before" that she did not 
sink under the blow. She was bowed down by intense grief, 



2(34 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

but even at eighty-five years of age she did not succumb to it. 
She thought of those who still lived and loved her, and she once 
more gradually revived to the duties and interests still remaining. 



Extracts from Letter of Mr. W. Sandford l to Mrs. Frances Hamilton. 

Argyle Street, July 24th, 1785. 

Madam, 

Mrs. Delany, too well knowing the concern you 
feel for her under her present great loss, of which the 
newspapers must have informed you, has honoured me 
with her commands to address these lines to you, to 
satisfy your anxiety about her as far as that can be. 
Mrs. Delany had been with the Duchess of Portland, 
about ten days, at Bulstrode, when the sad event of her 
Grace's death happened : the next day Mrs. Delany 
came to town, and though in great affliction, I am happy 
to add in good health, which, not yet failing her, and her 
having many kind friends about her, we flatter ourselves 
is not likely to do so ; as her affliction is so perfectly 
calm and rational as to allow her to accept the unwearied 
attentions they offer her : among them my mother bears 
no small share, as you may believe. 

Mrs. Delany has much consolation from the cordial 
civilities and kindnesses she has received from the Duke 
and Duchess of Portland, as well as from all the other 
parts of the family since the late sad change. The Duke's 
own expression has been that, " ever lie should see his 
mother in Mrs. Delany" and " should always think himself 
fulfilling his late mother s wishes when he obeys her com- 
mands, or contributes in anything to her satisfaction. You 

1 Mrs. Sandford's youngest sod, who died in America in 1808. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 265 

may be assured] madam, thai our beloved Mrs*. Delany is 

not slow in making use of consolations such as these. 
The King, the Queen, and Princess Amelia, 1 have been 
as constant and regular in their solicitous inquiries after 
Mrs. Delany since the Duchess's death, as they were after 

the excellent friends during her Grace's late illness, 
which was of a complicated kind. But the immediate 
cause o[ her death was a bilious complaint, which termi- 
nated (it is apprehended) in a mortification. Poor Mr. 
Jones, her Grace's butler, died the Sunday before, at 
Bulstrode, of the same complaint, which increased the 
distress of the household. We understand the Duchess's 
remains are to be interred on Friday or Saturday next, 
in Westminster Abbey, where the late Duke was buried, 
as well as all the Harley family. When that event is 
over, we hope Mrs. Delany's affliction will more sub- 
side. You will be glad to hear that Mr. Dewes is with 
her ; ami that Miss Port wall be brought up to her on 
either Friday or Saturday next at farthest, which will be 
a great balm to her, as she is indeed a very amiable 
young lady, and greatly beloved by all Mrs. Delany's 
friends. Though personally unknown to you, madam, 
I shall take great satisfaction to myself if this account 
should relieve any part of the anxiety you must at this 
time feel for Mrs. Delany ; as my mother has informed 
me that my life began with obligations to you, which 
cannot but bind me. 

Mrs. Delany is going in a few days, to Mrs. Bos- 
cawen's, at Coney Hatch. Mrs. Delany has had a visit 



1 Aunt to King George IV. 
PART II. — VOL. III. 



266 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

from the Duchess of Portland ; it is the first visit she 
has made anybody since the Duchess Dowager's death. 



Mrs. Chapone to Mrs. Dickenson. 

July 24th, 1785,* 

I return you a thousand thanks, my dear madam, for 
the favour of your kind and comfortable letter. I know 
not how sufficiently to thank my dear Mrs. Delany, nor 
to admire her generous attention to the feelings of her 
friends, at a time when one could only expect her to be 
engross' d by her own. She does me but justice in be- 
lieving that I most truly sympathized in her affliction, 
and was very apprehensive for her health. I had 
written to Mrs. Sandford, for I thought a letter addrest 
to herself would only be troublesome and afflicting at 
present. The day before I received yours, I had great 
comfort from Mrs. Boscawen, who told me how admir- 
ably our excellent friend preserved her sweet and patient 
resignation. I know the greatness of her mind and the 
strength of her principles. But still I fear'd for her 
mortal frame. As selfish fear I of what perhaps consti- 
tutes her greatest consolation ! 

It is a great satisfaction to me to hear that you are in 
town, who must be so great a support to her. I much 
fear Mrs. Sandford is not able to attend her, as I am 
sure she wishes to do, and I would gladly have come to 
town to have tried to supply her place, if I could have 
flatter' d myself it would have been acceptable, and if 
more precious comforters were not at hand ! 

I thought you had gone out of k>wn immediately upon 



OF MRS. DBLANY. -67 

your marriage, or I should have offer'd you my sincere 
congratulations. Alas ! that I must now add condolence 
to them ! Your loss is, indeed, a, general concern, but heavy, 

indeed, must it be to those who enjoy 'd so high a place 
as you did in the friendship of the excellent Dss of Port- 
land ! but how unspeakably great to her first friend ! 
May God Almighty support and comfort her ! I am 
glad to hear that Mr. Dewes is coming to her. Where 
does she mean to spend the remainder of this summer ? 
I am much obliged to you and to Mr. Dickenson for the 
honour you did me in calling at my lodgings, and shall 
be always happy to cultivate your acquaintance and 
kindness. I beg my best compliments and congratula- 
tions to Mr. Dickenson. 

Be so good to express for me the most affectionate 
wishes my heart is capable of to dear good Mrs. Delany, 
with the truest gratitude for her kind remembrance of me. 
Your very much obliged and obedient, 

Hester Chapone. 

I beg my thanks and good wishes to poor dear Mrs. 
Vesey (the late accounts I have heard of Mr. V.'s will 
fill me with indignation and concern, and disappointed 
me the more as I had heard a very different account). 



On the 5th of Aug. Miss Port wrote to her mother, from St. 
James's Place, as follows — 

" Mrs. Susan Astley and Mrs. Deighton are come to 
White Hall. The Duchess of Portland's will is not yet 
proved, but will in the course of two or three days. 

t2 



268 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

"The Dow r Lady Spencer 1 came here yesterday morning ; 
she has in the kindest manner pres'd my aunt to come 
to St. Albans, when we return from Glan Villa ; she has 
desired me to come some morning between nine and ten 
to see her, as at that hour I shall be sure of finding her 
at home. She is to be here for two months, as both the 
Duchess of Devonshire and Lady Duncannon are soon 
to be confined, and she designs being a month with each 
to nurse them. Mrs. Dickenson leaves London on 
Saturday, (if before that time she does not pack herself 
into a fever — for) from five in the morning till dark she 
is packing. Mr. Fulwood is rather better, we have made 
frequent enquiries, Mrs. Astley has been to see him, and 
I shall call some time to-day. 

" We are busy packing for our expedition, which / trust 
will in some degree restore my dear A. D's sleep and 
spirits." 



Tlie Countess of Stamford to Mrs. Delany. 

Dunham Massey, Aug. 7th, 1785. 
Sunday evening. 

My most dear and ever valued Friend, 

Tho' I should ever wish to pay the greatest 
attention to your commands, I must for once disobey 
them. It is impossible for me to suppress the overflow- 
ings of a heart attached to my ever dear Mrs. Delany, 
by the strongest ties of affection and gratitude. 

What a fresh proof, my dear dear friend, have you 
given me of your kindness ! Words can ill, very ill 



1 Margaret Georgiana, daughter of the Rt. Hon. Stephen Poyntz, and widow 
of John, 1st Earl Spencer. 



OF MRS. DBLANY. 209 

describe the various pleasing said painful sensations your 
letter gave nu\ Your exquisite sensibility, and most 
affectionate heart, will, I am sure, do mine all the justice 
it can ask, and will spare us both the pain of repeating 
our mutual sufferings ! I pray to God that lie may, and 
I trust in his great nierev that Pie will, enable us to 
Bubmii to his divine will with patient resignation. 

It gives me great satisfaction, my dearest friend, that 
you are now with good Mrs. Boscawen, and that your 
dear niece, Miss Port, is with you. I beg to offer my 
best and kind comp* to them both. I bless God, my 
dear lord and all my dear children are very well. They 
beg me to mention them to you in the most affectionate 
manner. 

AVhen the joyful event takes place, which promises so 
fair a prospect of happiness to my beloved Harriet, 1 I 
shall embrace the first moment to make my dearest 
Mrs. Delanj r acquainted with it. It is now defer'd for 
some time. 

I rejoice very much in the good accounts I receive of 
my dear Lady Weymouth ; and I have had the satisfac- 
tion to hear that good Lady Bute has benefitted very 
greatly from her journey into Yorkshire, and from the 
change of air. 

Adieu ! my ever dear friend. Believe me, with the 
most sincere attachment, 

Your affectionate and grateful 

H. C. Stamford. 



1 Lady Harriet Grey's marriage to Sir John Chetwode, which took place 
26th Oct., 1 



270 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The Hon. Mrs. Walsingham to Mrs. Delany. 

August 14th, 1785. 

My D r Madam, 

I think myself extremely oblig'd to you for 
desiring Mrs. Boscawen to communicate to me the very 
delicate, noble, and friendly manner, in which their 
Majesties have expressed the sense they entertain of your 
merit ; and the feelings they have, for the very great 
loss you (and numbers more) have sustained. I honour 
and admire them beyond what words can speak, and 
really I could not read the account, without a sort of 
shivering, and tears coming into my eyes, that prove 
how we are penetrated, even to our mental parts, by acts 
of generosity and kindness ; I felt much anxiety, till I 
came to the conclusion, and found you had determin'd to 
take the house, and in return for her Majesties attention, 
to give her one of the greatest and rarest of all pleasures, 
having a friend for her near neighbour ! Such instances 
of friendship are rare in their Majesties exalted rank, and 
I congratulate them, on having felt a pleasure, so few of 
royal race have ever known. To you, my d r madam, 
it cannot but have given pleasure tho' you was so deeply 
plung'd in sorrow, and these unexpected pleasing circum- 
stances, that sometimes break out like rays of sunshine, 
on our most clouded unhappy days, put me in mind of an 
admirable saying of L d Bacon's, that " man's necessity is 
God's opportunity." 

I have been in town, at least three times a week, and 
therefore it is natural to imagine, I should have waited 
on you ; but alas ! my time and thoughts have all been 
devoted to endeavours for the recovery of my son's 



OF MRS. DELANY. 271 

health, 1 on whose fine person and constitution (to use Mr. 
Yearsly's expression) tl fell dissipation lias already done 
the work of time." He has in my opinion, every symptom 

of a consumption, spitting blood, night sweats, &c. &c, 
I cany him up every third day to S r Wm. Fordyce, 
who (jives me great hopes, if I. could take them, I shall 
ii; A let him out of my sight, till he embarks for Naples, 
which 1 hope he will do the end of September. 

I beg pardon for troubling you, with my sorrows, but 
it is a maxim of our admirable friend Mrs. Boscawen's, 
that c 'a sorrowful tale is the only thing that can claim 
the attention of an afflicted mind," therefore I will make 
no apology for it. Most sincerely have I felt for you, and 
well am I assured you u- ill feel for me. 

My daughter joins me in kind compliments to Miss 
Port! 

Ever very affec fly yours, 

C. B. Walsingiiam. 

Mrs. Walsingham alludes, in this letter, to the remarkable 
proof given by George III. and Queen Charlotte of their extreme 
value and regard for Mrs. Delany, which was manifested afresh, 
in so delicate and considerate a manner, after the death of the 
Dowager Duchess of Portland. In consequence of the inventions 
and mis-statements which have appeared in reference to this 
period of Mrs. Delany's life, and of the extraordinary credi 13 
and obstinate tenacity with which such statements have been 
received and repeated, it is necessary to say (although many of 
the following assertions have been demonstrated by the present 
Memoirs and Correspondence), that Mrs. Delany never had any 
" cottage at Bulstrode," never resided in any Jtouse of the Duchess 



1 Richard, only son of the Hon. Robert Boyle Walsingiiam, born in 1762 
and died in I 



272 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

of Portland's except when with her on a visit, and that so far 
from having been disappointed by the Duchess's not having left 
her any legacy, that the Duchess had conversed with her openly 
and confidentially on the subject of her own Will ; and although 
in the course of nature it was not to be expected that Mrs. 
Delany would have survived her, yet it was not surprising that 
the Duchess of Portland should have provided for the possibility 
which occurred of the eider surviving the younger friend. Mary 
Granville was past fourteen when Lady Margaret Cavendish 
Harley was born, and was the associate of her mother. Lady 
Harriot Harley, yet she lived nearly three years longer than the 
Duchess of Portland. The Duchess, with this view, consulted 
Mrs. Delany as to what she should leave her as a testimony of 
her friendship. Mrs. Delany said she must never think of leaving 
her any money, that she could never receive from her anything 
more than a bequest of any objects which might testify her 
regard by being mementos of herself, and she was so apprehensive 
that the Duchess might leave her a legacy, that she went so far 
as to appeal to her principles, and to remind her that however 
great her wealth, however extensive her property, that in her 
own family she had legitimate claims for its entire and exclusive 
appropriation. 

The Duchess of Portland felt the force of the arguments of 
her friend, respected the delicacy of her feelings, and acquiesced 
in her desire by giving the required promise. There is no doubt 
that Mrs. Delany was well acquainted with the contents of the 
Duchess of Portland's Will as far as regarded herself, and that 
she had nothing new to learn on the subject after the Duchess's 
death. The bequests to her were an enamel picture of Petitot, 
by himself; a picture of mice, by Raphael ; a water-colour 
drawing of mice ; and "my fine enamelled snuff-box, the small 
blew and black enamelled snuff-box." To Mrs. Port, of 
Ham, the Duchess of Portland left all the chairs embroidered in 
chenille by Mrs. Delany, all the drawings by Mrs. Delany, 
and all the pictures painted by her. The Editor believes 
that the only shadow of truth that existed with regard to 



OF MRS, DELANY. 273 

surprise expressed after the contents of the Will were known, 
upon the absence of any legacy bo Sirs. Delany, was on the part of 
King George the Third himself, to whom Mrs. Delany then stated 
the particulars no"w mentioned, and thus vindicated ber friend's 
memory. The only change in Mrs. Delany's habits of life 
which was occasioned by the Duchess of Portland's death, 
wore her visits to Bulstrode in the summer; and the King and 
Queen availed themselves of this circumstance to present Mrs. 
Delany with a house at Windsor, and to desire that she would 
always move there when the Court moved ; but with that 
delicate consideration which characterized all their actions 
towards her, they gave at the same time 3001. a year, that she 
might not suffer by the additional expense of two establishments ; 
and to prevent even the appearance of a pension, as well as to 
obviate the possibility of its being diminished by taxation, the 
Queen used regularly to bring her the half year's amount in a 
pocket-book when she made her a visit. Further details with 
respect to this mark of royal favour, and it may be added of 
royal attachment, will appear in the following letters. 



TJie Eon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Ddany. 

Colny Hatch, Monday, loth Aug., 1785. 

Ml dearest Madam, 

I long to see you, but have not as } r et been able 
to give myself that satisfaction j I have however sent 
the musick-book, which I hope arriv'd safe : a Maid of 
Honour who made me a visit last Saturday (and grae'd 
my garden with Her Majesty's coach and six), promis'd 
me she woud send it to St. James's Place, as soon as 
she return'd to the palace, and I natter myself she did. 

Now the time is almost come to set out for Kent, but 
1 >hall contrive so as to make you a visit (much too 
short in my estimation) as I go along ; it will be at a 



274 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

very awkward hour, next "Wensday, between 4 and 5, 
for I must drink tea at Black Heath, where I pass the 
night. You will perhaps kindly say, " Dine with me" 
No, my dearest madam, that I cannot do ; but I will 
come by the time you return from y r chamber, after 
y r little retirement ; as I reckon you still dine at 3, 
for the benefit of the walking lady, 1 who, however, seldom 
betrays much sign of hunger. At all events, perhaps you 
may be so good to dine a little earlier than ordinary, on 
Wensday, as I shou'd be unhappy to disturb that half- 
hour of repose w ch it is so necessary for you to take after 
dinner. 

Post arrives, and won't stay a minute. It brings me 
a kind letter from Lady Bute, who was exceedingly 
pleas d, but not surprised (knowing their Majesties good- 
ness), at the news she rec d from Lady Weymouth, and 
from me. I hope Mr. Bernard Dewes is with you, my 
dear madam. God bless and comfort you, prays 
Your very faithfull, 

And affectionate servant, 

F. B. 



Miss Port to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

St. James's Place, 
Friday, Aug. 19th, 1785. 

I have a particular message to deliver to my dearest 
mama, it is that the Dss of Portland 2 wished much 
to have a picture of my A. D's painting, and she 



1 Miss Port, of Ham. 

- Dorothy, daughter of John, 4th Duke of Devonshire. 



OF MBS. DELANY. 275 

seemed io like the picture of the Barber, after Vandyke. 
My .V. D. thought she could nut avoid offering it in 
your name, as she was sure it would make you very 
happy if she would accept of it, and my A. D. says she 
thinks you should oiler Lady Weymouth and Lady 
aford one each ; but this she shall not do, till she 
knows whether you approve of it. 

The other pictures, and your six great arm shagreen- 
worked chairs, A. I), will take care of for you, as she 
shall have room enough in her house at Windsor to take 
care ol them if you chuse. 

Tho' the King is the overseer (which of course must 
hurry the workmen) yet, on enquiry, we find it will be 
three weeks before the house will be ready, and three 
weeks longer in London at this time of year would be 
bad for A. D's health : this the Queen has considered, 
for which reason her Majesty kindly sent Miss Planter 
(who is in Miss Hamilton's place) t to say that " till the 
house was fit for our reception, she hoped my aunt 
Delany would be in an apartment that belongs to the 
Castle at Windsor/' and on my A. D's introducing me to 
Miss Planter, she said, "that the Queen named that 
young lady particularly, and H. M. expects her too!' 

We had a letter from*Mrs. Dickenson the other day, 
she wrote in great spirits, and said she was soon to go to 
Calwich. 

I have taken the liberty of enclosing a yard or two of 
the n> w-fashiorid stamped gauze made to imitate the 
Yalencene lace. 



276 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The Countess of Bute to Mrs. Delany. 

Wortley, Aug. 20th, 1785. 

I received my dear friend's letter of the 12 tb inst., 
as I was setting out upon the expedition I proposed into 
the northern part of Yorkshire, and have had no oppor- 
tunity of answering it till I returned hither. I fancy 
mine which acquainted you with my having heard from 
Lady Weymouth, must have crossed it on the road ; I 
really cannot tell you how happy I am with their 
Majesties goodness, and am glad you have determined 
upon accepting their gracious offer, if your health per- 
mits it — (for there coud be no other reason for delibe- 
rating a moment) 'tis certain your present habitation is 
much too lonely for you : but I hope the Queen's accus- 
tom' d goodness will prompt her to consider that too 
great a hurry may be too much for you, and allow you 
all the quiet and repose necessary. Miss Port being 
with j^ou will also be a great additional comfort. You 
may remember I told you, I was sure nothing would be 
proposed to you, without every attention that cou'd make 
it agreeable, and I can't express how glad I am that my 
expectations are answered. I also thought the Dss of 
Portland's 1 behaviour would be as handsome as possible, 
and am much pleased that 1)oth. my predictions are 
verify'd. I shall now proceed to give an account of our 
travells, which have been very amusing to us ; but, un- 



1 The Duke and Duchess of Portland evinced (if possible) greater attachment, 
attention, and veneration for Mrs. Delany after the death of the Dowager 
Duchess than before. Lady Bute's allusion to her expectation of the Duchess's 
conduct being " as handsome as possible " might have had reference to the 
delicacy of feeling shown to her wishes. The Editor has a note written hy her 
mother on a letter of Mr. Sandford's, which consists of these words — " TJie 
conduct of the Duke and Duchess of Portland to Mrs. Delany was perfect" 



OF Mils. DELANY. 277 

fortunately, not near so much so as they might have 
been, from the extreme badness oi' the weather. It was 
fine the first day, and Louisa had the satisfaction of see- 
ing Stndlev Park l and Fountain Abbey, 8 but we had 
rain every dav after, and cou'd only behold the beautifull 
country we went thro' by snatches. We were at Holton 
Hall,'' and view'd tin 4 fall of water at Aysgarth, but the 
rains had swelled the river so much that the water 
covered the rocks, which are one of the chief beauties: 
however, the Bight was tremendous and noble. This very 
bad weather which seemed to be set in, made me shorten 
my stay at Askrig (from whence I was to have seen all 
various romantick scenes in the neighbourhood), and in 
our return we called upon Mrs. Weddell, who received 
us with the greatest good-humour and hospitality : where 
we spent a day very pleasantly indeed. She enquired 
after }~ou in the kindest manner ; you must have heard 
of the elegance and magnificence of Mr. Weddell' s house, 
all ornamented by Mr. Adams, 4 in his highest (and 
indeed, I think) best taste. There is a gallery fill'd with 
fine statues, busts, and bas-reliefs; a great number of line 
pictures dispersed in different rooms ; and the drawing- 



1 Stuclley Park, near Ripon, in Yorkshire, the seat of Earl de Grey. 

- V Abbey. This edifice is described by Camden as "delicately 

situated in a fruitful soil wherein are veins of lead ;" and he adds that, " It 
had its original from twelve monks of York, who, affecting a more rigid and 
strict course of life, loft their cloisters, and after a great deal of trouble and 
hardship, wen.' settled here by Thursian, Archbishop of York, who founded it 
for that ] 

3 Bolton is in that part of the county of York called Richmondshire. 

4 Robert Adam, F.R.S. and F.S.A., was born at Kirkaldy, in Fifeshirc. He 
at one time represented the county of Kinross in Parliament, lie was cele- 
brated as an architect for mansions and public buildings, and especially for the 
Adelphi, which he built in conjunction with his brother. Robert Adam died 
in 17!JL\ 



278 LIFE AKD CORRESPONDENCE 

room furnished with the most beautiful Gobelins tapestry 
I ever saw. In short, the whole house is compleat, and 
the inhabitants so perfectly pleasant and good-humoured, 
I was sorry I cou'd not make a longer stay with them, 
as they very cordially and politely prest us to do. I am 
glad to hear Lady "Weymouth is likely to have the re- 
freshment of a little country air ; it is certainly necessary 
for her after so much hurry, and as all her business is 
past in the proper time, I trust she will have no more 
anxiety about it. I suppose this may come to your 
hands, my dear madam, just before you set out for 
Windsor, where I hope you will find both health and 
pleasure, and that you will let me know how you are 
after your arrival ; also, whether I am to direct there, or 
to St. James's Place. Louisa hopes you will accept her 
best compliments, as I do that you believe me, ever 
Faithfully and affectionately yours, 

M. W. Bute. 

I fear we shall not meet so soon as October, being 
advised to go cross the country to the Bath. 

In a letter from Mrs. Dewes to Mrs. Anne Viney, written 
from Calwich the 29th of August, 1785, she says — " Miss Port 
went up to Mrs. Delany immediately on the a Du chess of Portland's 
death, 1 which I hear she bears wonderfully. I presume she is 
going to Windsor." 

In this month (August) Mrs. Delany had a week of very severe 
illness, and it was at this time that Miss Burney, who had been 
made known to her by Mrs. Chapone about two years before, 



1 Miss Port was only absent a fortnight at this period, having left her aunt 
just before the Duchess of Portland became dangerously ill. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 279 

appears to have boon for the first time admitted as a guest in 
her house, and to have so conducted and comported herself as to 

have made a most favourable impression, as Mrs. Delany thus 
introduces her name to Mrs. Frances Hamilton — U I have had 
in the house with me, ever Bince my nephews were obliged to 
leave me, Miss Burney (the Author of Evelina and Cecilia), 
which, excellent as they are, are her meanest praise. Her 
admirable understanding, 1 tender affection, and sweetness of 
manners, make her valuable to all those who have the happiness 
to know her." She also says that it was a satisfaction to her to 
have bad Miss Burney "as a companion for Miss Port" during her 
own illness at that period. The Duchess of Portland had now 
been dead about six weeks, and the feelings of Mrs. Delany were 
thus touchingly expressed on the subject to Mrs. F. Hamilton — 
" The subject is too tender for me to enter upon, and I endeavour 
to look forward to the unmerited blessings still bestowed upon 
me, with humble resignation to that gracious Providence who 
knows what is fittest for me ; but I feel my obligations to my 
dear friends who think of me so kindly, and assure them of my 
affectionate and constant good wishes. 

" I employ my secretary just to add some new proofs I have 
received of their Majesties goodness to me. Astley (my servant) 
I sent to Windsor last Thursday to see what conveniences there 
might be wanting in the house that their Majesties have been 
so gracious as to give me ; when there she received the King's 
command that I was only ' to bring myself and my niece, clothes, 
and attendants, as stores of every kind would be laid in for me. 1 " 



1 For " admirable understanding " talent might be substituted ; for " tender 
affection," a gentle sympathizing voice ; and for " sweetness of manners" 
(apparently) timid and undeviating attention and respect to Mrs. Delany. 



/> 



280 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

C. H. Thursday, Post hour, 1785. 

I cannot delay a moment to acknowledge with grati- 
tude all the kind presents. I have already drop't my 
handkerchief, my purse, &c, &c, for the pleasure of 
sending my " Bromingham ladder " to pick them up, w ch 
it has done most dexterously. I have now great doubts 
where to keep it, but for the present it is deposited in 
the drawer of the yellow table in the blue room. 

The dear bag too shall be safely return' d when the 
work is complete. My affection, my wishes, my prayers 
follow'd my honour'd friend to Lon n , and will to Windsor, 
but first I shall hope to see her and the "fair walking lady." 



From Queen Charlotte (in her own handwriting) to Mrs. Delany. 

My dear Mrs. Delany will be glad to hear that I am 
charged by the King to summon her to her new abode 
at Windsor for Tuesday next, where she will find all the 
most essential parts of the house ready, excepting some 
little trifles which it will be better for Mrs. Delany to 
direct herself in person, or by her little deputy, Miss 
Port. I need not, I hope, add that I shall be extreamly 
glad and happy to see so amiable an inhabitant in this 
our sweet retreat, and wish very sincerely that my dear 
Mrs. Delany may enjoy every blessing amongst us that 
her merits deserve, and that we may long enjoy her 
amiable company, Amen. These are the true sentiments 
of my dear Mrs. Delany 's 

Very affectionate Queen, 

Charlotte. 

Queen's Lodge, Windsor. 
The 3* of Septf*, 1785. 



of MRS. DELANT. 281 

I must also beg thai Mrs, Delanywill choose lior own 
time of coming as will besi suit her own convenience. 

The original was in Queen Charlotte's own handwriting. 



From Quern Charlotte to Mn. Delany. 

My dearest Mrs. Delany, 

If coming to me will not fatigue your spirits too 
much I shall receive you with open arms, and am, 

Your affectionate friend, 

Charlotte. 

The above letter was also in Queen Charlotte's own hand- 
writing, but without date. It was probably written immediately 
after Mrs. Delany's arrival at Windsor. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Bill Hill. Friday night, 
9th Sept., 1785. 

0, how tir'd I was yesterday morning when I walk'd 
down the hill of St. James's Street, and then walk'd up 
again without seeing my dearest Mrs. Delany. No 
chairmen to he found, all gone to harvest or hopping. I 
trudg'd away the minute I arriv'd in Audley Street, and 
thought to have had an hour's conversation with my 
dear friend, while my horses refresh'd themselves for 
their journey hither. But why did not you enquire first ? 
you will say ; why did you not suppose I might be gone 
to Windsor ? I answer, because I understood from Miss 
Murrays that you were to be at Ken Wood on Tuesday, 
and I remember' d the day was so terrible that it was 

PART II. — VOL. III. u 



282 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

likely you w d put off that visit till Wensday or Thurs- 
day, therefore I -laid my account upon finding you, and I 
walk'd away with zeal and eagerness ; but I found only 
Molly Butcher, who gave me leave to rest myself in your 
parlour, and who answer'd many questions that I in- 
cessantly put to her. The chief, you may be sure, was 
after my dear friend's health, and of this I must beg 
farther information from my favourite " walking lady," and 
directed to Badminton, Grlostershire, for thither I am 
repairing immediately ; for surely if I made any stay 
here I wou'd inquire with my eyes, and with my tongue ; 
but as Mr. Leveson is expected home to-morrow, or next 
day, there can be no want of any other guest, and I have 
been expected at Badminton some time (I have now 
wrote, indeed, to name my day). I shall long to hear 
that you got no cold, nor anything but the honour and 
pleasure which awaits you in a mansion so prepard, and 
so situated. Grod bless you there, my dear friend, and 
grant you health and comfort. 

Believe me ever most faithfully y rs , 

P.B. 

P.S. I cannot forbear telling you that my son was 
honour'd with the Sailor Princes 1 company during the 
five days that the Hebe remain'd in Falmouth Harbour, 
and His Eoyal Highness seem'd pleas'd with such a re- 
ception as zeal cou'd give, tho' in an old and tatter d 
mansion. 

My son 2 attended his Eoyal Highness to every Cornish 



1 H.R.H. Prince William Henry, third son of King George III., sub- 
sequently Duke of Clarence, and ultimately King William IV. 

2 George Evelyn Boscawen, Viscount Falmouth* 



OF MBS. DELANY. 283 

Bight that he thought at all worthy of his curiosity, and 
waited on him back to Falmouth, and went on board to 
make his last bow. 

Mr. Leveson writes us many commendations of Lady 
Falmouth upon this agreeable occasion, so that I trust 
both the host ami the hostess did their best endeavours to 
make everything as agreeable as thcycou'dto their royal 
guest. 

Here is a true woman's postscript — longer than the 
Letter ; yet I must add kind compli u to Miss Port, whom 
I desire to explain the carpet for the Lucette, w ch you 
will receive by M. Butcher. One great heart in gold 
colour upon purple is plainly enough the first and best in 
the kingdom. The rest w cb surround on all sides are 
grey, which represents age, and bright green, w cb denotes 
youth. So that old and young, all hearts, unite in thai 
centre you are acquainted with. I am sure you will 
approve the device ; for the execution I have not a word 
to say, but that plain truth needs no Jlow'rs of speech. 

Adieu, once more my very dear friend. 

Mrs. Leveson and her children are well. The former 
wou'd send you many respects if she knew I was writing 
to you, w ch I do at midnight. 



The Countess of Stamford to Mrs. Ddany. 

Dunham Masscy, Sept, 15th, 1785. 

My dearest Friend, 

You have made me happier than I can find words 
to express by the very kind letter I received from you 
yesterday. Indeed, you do me justice in thinking that 
I participate most sincerely with you in the felicity you 

u 2 



284 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

must enjoy from the unbounded goodness of their Ma- 
jesties. Their well-judged, and well-timed kindness and 
attention to you, fills my heart with the most lively 
sentiments of admiration for, and gratitude to them. I 
pray to God to enable you to enjoy these comforts, 
which I am sure, my dearest friend, must for many 
reasons afford you very great consolation. I must thank 
you again and again for the kind communication of these 
circumstances to me. I have known your worth too 
long, and I love you with too sincere an affection, not to 
feel warmly interested in everything that regards you. 
You will confer a very sincere pleasure on me, if you 
will allow Mrs. Astley to inform me of your health, 
as I cannot get the particulars I wish to know by sending 
to your house in town. 

I have the pleasure to assure you that all those most 
dear to me are very well. They all desire me to assure 
you of their affectionate regard. The girls beg that 
Miss Port will accept their kind comp ts . We are very 
glad to hear she is quite well, and you may believe, that 
we cannot entertain a doubt of her being perfectly happy. 
That she may long continue to be so, and ever prove a 
comfort to my most dear Mrs. Delany is the sincere 
wish, of your 

Most affectionate, and sincere friend, 

H. C. Stamford. 



The Eon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Badminton, 15th Sept., 1785. 

I return my dear friend very sincere thanks for the great 
kindness of telling me what I wanted so much to know, 



OF MRS. DELANY, 2S5 

your safe arrival at Windsor; and you won't bo surprised 
that L was anxious for the news, when I tell you that I 
heard of y* n stive horses, and of your walking in all that 

storm of wind and rain! Indeed it was abated in the 
evening, when you walk'd ; still the idea was most 
alarming, and oven now when I think of it, I quite 
long for one more letter to assure me you got no cold, 
and have since y r arrival found no bad effects from that 
fright and that walk. I know Miss Port or Mrs. Astley 
will indulge me once more with news from "Windsor, on 
a subject so truly interesting to me as my dear friend's 
health. Direct only to the Duke of Beaufort, Badminton, 
Grlostershire, and I shall get it in a minute, for a certain 
ingenious Mr. Palmer puts every place side by side to 
each other, so that one hears from people fourscore miles 
off as if they were in the next parish. On the other hand, 
there is a certain old stile Mr. Todd, who does not take 
to these new methods, and in pure spite, I am told, sends 
one's miserable letters a wandering for six or seven days, 
so that all is in extremes with regard to the post ; and to 
say the truth I have found it so this summer, getting 
letters out of Cornwall in a surprising short time, while 
one out of Kent shall wander about for a week. But I 
must not talk of the post, only remember that it is just 
going out from hence. My dear friend, I will say no- 
thing of the honours (most distinguish* d honours) you 
receive, but that I admire those who confer them, and 
know the merit of her who receives them, 

I hope you got a letter I wrote yo\x from Bill Hill. 

iid there till I had seen Mr. Leveson arrive safe and 

well, and then, as he meant to go up to attend to the 

Admiralty, and take his wife with him, I proceeded 



286 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

hither, where I have the great satisfaction to find the 
great and small of this noble chateau in good health. I 
long to hear of yours, my dear madam. I cannot say a 
word more (post waiting ;) but that I beg you will keep 
yourself as quiet as possible. 

Ever y r most faithfull and affectionate friend, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 

Many inquiries after you from the Dss wou'd produce 
a long message of respect, if I had time to consult her. 
How did you like the lucette footstool? 



The following extract gives Mrs. Delany's own account of her 
receiving the Queen's summons to Windsor. She wrote to Mrs. 
F. Hamilton as follows on 20th Sept. — 

"I received the Queen's letter 1 at dinner, and was 
obliged to answer it instantly, with my own hand, with- 
out seeing a letter I wrote. I thank God I had strength 
enough to obey the gracious summons on the day 
appointed. I arrived here about eight o'clock in the 
evening, and found His Majesty in the house ready to 
receive me. I threw myself at his feet, indeed unable to 
utter a word ; he raised and saluted me, and said he meant 
not to stay longer than to desire I would order everything 
that could make the house comfortable and agreeable to 
me, and then retired. 

" Truly I found nothing wanting, as it is as pleasant and 
commodious as I could wish it to be, with a very pretty 
garden, which joins to that of the Queen's Lodge. The 



Letter of Queen Charlotte to Mrs. Delany, 3rd Sept. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 287 

next morning Her Majesty sent one of her ladies to 
know 'how I had rested?' and 'how I was in health?' 
and 'whether her coming would not be troublesome?' 
She came about 2 o'clock. 1 was lame, and, therefore, 
could not go down, as I ought to have done, to the door; 
Imt Her Majesty came up stairs. Our meeting was mu- 
tually affecting; she well knew the value of what I had 
Lost, and it was some time after we were seated (for she 
always makes me sit down), before we could either of us 
speak. She repeated in the strongest terms her wish, 
and the King's, that I should be as easy and as happy as 
they could possibly make me; that they waved all cere- 
mony, and desired to come to me like friends ! The Queen 
also delivered me a paper from the King ; it contained 
the first quarter of £300 per annum, which His Majesty 
allows me out of his privy purse. Their Majesties have 
drank tea with me five times, 1 and the Princesses three. 
They generally stay two hours, or longer. In short I 
have either seen or heard of them every day, but I have 
not yet been at the Queen's Lodge, though they have 
expressed impatience for me to come, as I have still so 
sad a drawback upon my spirits that I must decline that 
honour till I am better able to enjoy it, as they have the 
goodness not to press me. Their visits here are paid in 
the most quiet private manner, like those of the most 
consoling and interested friends ; so that I may truly 
say, they are a Royal cordial, and I see very few people 
besides. My niece is delighted, as is very natural, with 
all the joys of this place. I have been three times at the 
King's private chapel at early prayers, eight o'clock, 



1 Mrs. Dclarv had then been at Windsor about a fortnight. 



288 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

where the Royal family constantly attend ; and they walk 
home to breakfast afterwards, whilst I am conveyed in a 
very elegant new chair home, which the King has made 
me a present of for that purpose. As to my health, it 
is surprisingly good, considering the sufferings of my 
agitated spirits, and that I was hardly recovered when 
I came here of a putrid sore throat and fever. 

" How thankful ought I to be to Providence for the 
wonderful blessings I have received ! How ungrateful 
must I be not to endeavour to resign those withdrawn 
from me, as I ought to do !" 



Riyht Hon. Frederick Montagu to Mrs. Belany. 

Papplewick, Sept* 24th, 1785. 

My dear Madam, 

Nothing can give me greater pleasure than the 
account of your very pleasant and very honourable situa- 
tion at Windsor, and I am very much obliged to Miss 
Port for her relation. 

Your Eoyal friends have combined private regard and 
affection with princely munificence — and I will say, 
tho' you are the grandaughter of S r Bevil Granville, that 
none of the Stuarts, male or female, would have done 
so well ! There is now nothing left but to pray for 
your health, and that the King and Queen may long 
enjoy the prospect of their good deeds. 

As to Miss Port, (if I was her uncle Lansdown) 1 
would compare her to Myra, and talk of her graces, &c, 
and if I was your old crabbed friend Swift, I would scold 
her and tell her that she should write slower, and not 
let her letters run into one another, and that as her 



OF MRS. DELANY. 289 

is excellent) there would be do barm if her writing 
was as good? Now I have thai opinion of her that F 
think she will like me the better in the character of 
Swift than in that of Lord Lansdown. I am here look- 
ing over my work, and shall return to Melton the middle 
of next month to meet the Wilsons, who will eome there 
on their way to their winter residence in the West. Mr. 
Wilson is almost well, Mrs. Wilson rather better, and all 
the rest of the family perfectly well. My best comp 3 
to Miss Port, if she will aecept them, and I am, 
With the greatest regards, 

Your most faithful, humble servant, 

F. Montague. 



Tlie IJon. Mrs. Boscaiven to Mrs. Delany. 

Badminton, 25th Sept., 1785. 

I felt myself exceedingly obliged to you, my dear friend> 
for giving me any of your precious moments ; they are, 
however, well bestow'd. Miss Sayer did not fail to 
boast of that she had given herself in waiting upon 
you, (I cou'd have found in my heart to envy her,) nor 
delay a moment to impart to me the good news of your 
being in good health and spirits on Tuesday y e 13th. I 
am sure your foe Apollo has not visited your royal 



1 Miss Tort wrote a running hand at this time. Queen Charlotte one day 
gave her something to write out for her, and afterwards criticized the hand- 
writing. The Queen wrote a beautiful distinct hand, then called "an Italian 
hand," which though small was bo distinct that any one letter might have 
been recognized if cut out of the word. Mrs. Delany begged her niece to take 
the Quei n's handwriting for a model, and the result was that the pupil at last 
far excelled her royal mistress, and wrote a hand which for clearness, com- 
pactness, and legibility exceeded any writing the Editor ever saw. She also 
wrote very rapidly. 



290 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

retreat, nor given yon any disturbance, nothing but rain, 
rain, I appeal to " the walking lady ; n if she retains that 
name she has been caught in many a shower ; but she 
stays at home with you, who want no brighter beams 
than those which shine upon you daily. It is impossible 
to express how much one admires their benign influence. 
Let it have the effect they wish, my dear friend, / know you 
endeavour it shoud, but " time (you say) is necessary." I 
must allow it, for I know it but too well, and have too 
often experienc'd it. 

My great desire is that you shou'd enjoy health of 
body, now that the mind has such a wound as cannot 
immediately be heal'd; if it cou'd such cordials adminis- 
ter'd by such hands wou'd surely do it. 

I was glad to hear their Majesties were at Oxford, a 
place so worthy of their presence. My friend, the keeper 
of the Bodleian library, had the honour to show it, and 
to kiss their Majesty's hands. I was in hopes he Would 
have been here, as he has been summons'd to meet me. 
I should have ask'd him many questions, but I doubt he 
can't come. 

Had it not been vacation, my amiable grandsons would 
have had the advantage of T. M's notice, by being in 
their college. They are here, and a very agreeable part 
of our society. Their dear mother is perfectly recover'd, 
I thank God, has enquir'd anxiously after y r health, and 
wou d send you her best respects if she knew I was 
writing to you, but she probably concludes me asleep, as 
it is near midnight. 

This is the third letter I have wrote to Windsor, 1 but 



1 A letter from Horace Walpole to the Countess of Ossory, dated Sept. 17th, 
1785, mentions Mrs. DelanVs arrival at Windsor. 



OF MRS. DELANY, 201 

the post is a little disorder'd at present, so you may not 
have reoeiv'd them, 'w ch is, however, no loss at all. I 
never know any news, and if I did, you wou'd not care 
about it : the besi 1 can tell you is that the Duke of 
Beaufort lias finish'd a most beautiful parish church, a 
very noble structure indeed, w ch only waits for a bishop 
to dedicate to its sacred purpose. I was in hopes to have 
assisted at this solemnity, but I doubt I shall not have 
that pleasure ; it was a real one to see so great and noble 
a work completed. 

Adieu, my dear friend ; give my kind complm 19 to y r , 
secretary. I do not doubt her savoir faire, and propriety 
upon all occasions, for is she not your niece ? but she mwt 
be my corresjwndent, or I shall complain, w ch I know 
she will not give me cause to do, because she knows how 
truly 

I am her dear aunt's very affectionate servant, 

F. Boscawen. 

Mrs. Leveson did not come here, on account of Mr. 
Leveson's return home. 



Tlte Earl of Guilford to Mrs. Delany. 

YVal dersliare, Oct. 14th, 178.*. 

Madam, 

Your being convinced my reasons were good for 
denying myself the pleasure of waiting on you gave me 
great satisfaction, and I feel myself much obliged to you 
for permitting me to trouble you with an account of my 
journey. I found very dirty roads, and travelled with a 
heavy heart, but arrived here in very tolerable health, 



292 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

tho' I cannot but say the agitation of my spirits has 
affected it in some degree. Her Majesty, who is always 
gracious, was so good as to give a favourable account of 
your health, knowing she could no way give me greater 
pleasure. She spoke of you with great tenderness and 
esteem, and mentioned some instances of kind attentions 
which had been shown you by the King and herself, 
which manifest the greatest goodness of heart imagin- 
able, but it was no more than I should have eapected from 
either of them. That the King has one of the best hearts 
in the world, I have known from his birth, and I have 
known the same to be in the Queen ever since I had the 
honour of conversing with her out of a drawing-room. 
You, who know them so well, will believe that it is not 
as King and Queen only that I love and respect them, 
but as two of the best persons I know in the world ! I am 
sure the Q. has compassion for me in my present situa- 
tion. I took very kindly of her that she would not give 
me pain by naming it. She was so good also as to com- 
mend Miss Port, which she knew would give me pleasure, 
and you may tell it to her, (if you think proper,) with my 
best compliments. You are very good in desiring me to 
mention Lord and Lady Willoughby, who, with reason, 
have heavy hearts on their own account as well as mine. 
Sickness at Compton and its neighbourhood has made 
them afraid to go there. They went from me to Lord 
Dartmouth's, where they found a sorrowfull house. 
Poor Coll. Legge growing every day worse, and Lord 
and Lady Dartmouth propose going to him to Ping- 
mouth. These things add to the dejection of my spirits, 
but we must consider that the hand which directs them 
is the perfection of wisdom and goodness, and trust that 



OF IfRS. DELANY. 293 

we shall be enabled to bear them with Christian resigna- 
tion. Lord and Lady Willoughhy are a1 present at Lord 
Bagot's, where their many friends and relations aiv very 
kind to them. I hope, by their Letters, that they are 
pretty well in health, and 1 am sure I shall please them 
much by mentioning your very kind enquiry after them. 
1 fear I have trespassed too much upon the permission 
}'ou gave me of troubling you with a letter. I beg 
pardon, and thai you will believe me, with the most 
sincere esteem and regard, madam, 

Your most obedient and obliged 

Humble servant, 

Guilford. 

My goods are not unpacked, and my writing-tackle in 
so bad order that I fear you can hardly read my letter. 



The Countess of Stamford to Mrs. Delcunj. 

Dunham Masscy, Oct. y e 15th, 1785. 

My dearest Friexd, 

Tray believe me truly sensible of your kindness 
in letting me hear from }^ou, and for wishing to conceal 
from me what you knew must give me pain. As you 
would not tell me you were well when you realy were 
not so, I feel the greater pleasure and confidence in the 
assurance you give me of the amendment in your health, 
which I earnestly hope may continue, and that it may 
please the Almighty to enable you to enjoy the many 
blessings and comforts with which you are surrounded, 
and in which I most sincerely share with my ever dear 
and valued friend. 

Before I name any of my family I must wish you joy of 



294 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

our dear Lady St. Asaph's being happily brought to bed 
of a son. 1 I hope she will go on as well as can be wished. 
The little gentleman will not fail of being a most wel- 
come guest to all his family. I will now add that I am 
most thankful to you for the account you sent me of my 
dear brother and his good Duchess. She is indeed a very 
valuable woman. I can with pleasure assure you that 
all those most dear to me are as well as I can wish. The 
time now begins to approach when I must give up one 
whose happiness is so deeply concerned in our separation, 
that I can with truth declare that I shall most willingly, 
and with joy, resign her into the hands of a man whom I 
think worthy of every blessing in this life ; and I ear- 
nestly pray to God that she may prove everything to 
him that his fond and affectionate heart makes him now 
think her. "When their union has taken place I shall 
not fail to inform my dear Mrs. Delany. 

I am much obliged to you for so kindly communicat- 
ing to me your manner of passing your time. It is im- 
possible not to take an interest in every circumstance 
that relates to those one loves, and you don't know how 
sensibly I feel this mark of your attention, as it con- 
vinces me, beyond all possibility of doubt, that you are 
persuaded of my sincere affection for you. 

I can easily imagine the comfort you must have in the 
company of good L y Louisa Clayton, 2 she is a most sen- 
sible, worthy woman. I formerly had the pleasure of 



1 Lady Sophia Thynne, third daughter of Thomas, 1st Marquis of Bath, 
married, Aug. 28th, 1784, George Ashburnham, Lord St. Asaph, afterwards 
3rd Earl of Ashburnham. 

2 Lady Louisa Clayton, daughter of Thomas, Earl of Pomfret, and third 
wife of William, second son of Sir William Clayton, Bart. 



ov MBS. DELANY. ^5 

being intimately acquainted with her, but a variety of 
circumstances have Beparated us; however, my esteem 

for her is not lessen d t and she is always so good to me 
that I have the vanity to hope she has still a regard for 
1110. Will //on be so kind to mention me to her in the 
kindest manner. 

My Lord and all my ehildren desire to be most kindly 
and affectionately remembered to you. Our best love 
waits on Miss Port. Adieu, my dearest friend. Believe 
me, with the most sincere regard, 

Your ever affectionate and grateful, 

H. C. Stamford. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscaiven to Mrs. Delany. 

Glan Villa, 18th Oct., 85. 

" Modesty becometh a maiden," and my " fair walk- 
ing lady " has so much of that excellent quality, that one 
must touch her as gently as one wou'd a sensitive plant : 
not that I repent of the liberty I took, as I am sure it 
will be beneficial to herself, as well as to me, and I hope 
we shall soon become correspondents again ; and that I 
shall read as glibly as she will write intelligibly. I was 
at Ken Wood last week, and had the honour and plea- 
sure to spend near an hour with L d Mansfield ; he was 
well, but had been indispos'd, and I cannot say that he 
look'd so well as when I saw him at Lady Smythe's. 
We talk'd of you, and I gave his lordship and Miss 
Murrays satisfaction, by relating my pleasant visit at 
"Windsor. My journey from you was certainly fort 
triste ; torrents of rain descended and kept me company 
till I got to Miss Bayer's, whose affectionate reception 
serv'd to comfort me. She is here now, and begs me to 



296 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

present her best respects to you, We are much enter- 
tained with Mr. Boswell's tour to the Hebrides ; l if your 
knotting is ever at leisure to be read to, I think you will 
be amus'd with this book, which will not require so 
much attention as lectures on higher subjects, and thus 
may be proper for an evening hour. 

My dearest madam, I am very glad that the event 
you announce to me, is accomplish' d. It is an honour 
that did not use to be accompany' d with any pain, but noiv, 
alass ! I was sure it woud, and yet how kind were the 
attentions, and if I may so speak inventions to lessen it ! 2 

My dear madam, I was very glad to hear of Lady St. 
Asaph's son and heir, but not of her tedious suffering. 
I hope she is now recover'd. 

I am glad you see Major Master ; for he is a very 
worthy man, and a great favourite of mine. Adieu, 
my dear friend. I am going this minute to visit Lady 
Frances Burgoyne, and as it is by appointm* I must 
not scribble any longer. 

Mrs. "Williams is not quite well, and the loss of S r 
John Cullum 4 will not revive her. Pray give my kind 
love to Miss Port, and believe me, with the highest 
esteem, respect, and affection, 

Yours ever, 

P. Boscawen. 



1 James Boswell, the biographer of Dr. Johnson, was bom in 1740, died 
1795. He wrote " The Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides with Dr. Johnson," 
the second edition of which was published in 1785. 

2 This event must have alluded to Mrs. Delany's spending an evening at the 
Queen's Lodge for the first time after the Duchess of Portland's death. 

3 Eldest daughter of George Montagu, Earl of Halifax, and wife of Sir 
Roger Burgoyne, Bart. She died July 24th, 1788. 

4 The Rev. Sir John Cullum, Bart., Bector of Hawstead and Great Thurlow, 
died in 1785. 



OF MRS. DBLANY. '^97 

The Hon. AfkfU Murray 1 to Miss Port. 

Kenwood, Oct 26th, 1785. 

On the other side, my dear j\Iiss Port, you will find 
some verses, which I think your dear aunt will approve 
of, and am sure you will read in such a way as to set off 
to the best advantage. Don't imagine, my dear, because 
I have been several days in your debt, that I was offended 
at your silence ; I was, indeed, anxious for a good ace 4 of 
our valuable friend, and feared my own letter had mis- 
carried. L 1 Mansfield is, thank God, quite well ; he was 
honour' d with a long conversation on Thursday last with 
Her Majesty, when Mrs. Delany was not forgotten, and 
justice icas done — on both sides I It gave us the sincerest 
pleasure to hear your good aunt keeps well, her being 
now and then low in spirits must be expected, for, though 
the manner in which she has supported herself, is truly 
wonderful, her affectionate heart and tender feelings can 
never vary. I am prevented adding anything more, 
my dear Miss Port, but our most cordial wishes, which 
I beg you to accept yourself, make acceptable to our 
dear friend, and believe me, 

Very sincerely and affectionately yours, 

A. Murray. 



1 Anne, eldest daughter of David, 6th Viscount Stormont, the elder brother 
of the Earl of Mansfield. 



PART II. VOL. Ill, 



298 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The following verses were with this correspondence, and were 
doubtless those inclosed by Miss Murray with the above letter. 

TO THE EARL OF MANSFIELD ON HIS LEAVING TUNBRIDGE WELLS. 

(Oct. 3rd, 1785. Written by Mrs. Burrell.) 

The Muse, quite desponding, and almost in tears, 

Like a tragedy queen, on the pantiles appears ; 

For Mansfield she mourns, on those comfortless walks, 

Of Mansfield she thinks, and of Mansfield she talks. 

Whilst a circle of friends who their grief cannot smother, 

Are rivals no more, but condole with each other ; 

And since the contention of pleasing is o'er, 

Their general loss, they unite to deplore. 

Fair Marg'ret looks grave, Lady Anne is grown sad, 

As for me (but my face in a veil should be clad) ; 

Neither pencil nor pen can attain to the art 

Of painting those feelings that glow in the heart I 

And the painter, who knew Agamemnon's distress, 

Cast a veil o'er the sorrows he could not express. 

Since, therefore, to talk of my grief wou'd be vain, 

Let me try my affectionate hopes to explain, 

Let me speak of unanimous wishes sincere 

That Mansfield again at the Well may appear. 

In his absence wit, genius, and science decay, 

Mirth spreads her light wings, and is vanish'd away ! 

The Virtues, the Graces, the Muses complain 

For want of the Sage who enliven'd their train ; 

And Friendship laments, (while she touches my pen,) 

The kindest of friends and the wisest of men. 



The Countess of Stamford to Mrs. Delany. 

Dunham Massey, Oct. y e 28th, 1785. 

My dearest Friend, Friday. 

Agreable to your kind request, and my own in- 
clination, I am set down to inform you of the marriage of 
my dearest Harriet/ The awful ceremony was performed 
in our own chapel on Wednesday morning at ten o'clock, 



1 Lady Henrietta Grey, eldest daughter of George Harry, 5th Earl of 
Stamford, married, 26th Oct., 1785, Sir John Chetwode, Bart. 



OF Mils. DELANY. 299 

and as soon as it was over, they se1 out for Sir John Chet- 
wode's house in Staffordshire, 1 where they arrived the same 
evening. I cannol describe to yon the happy countenance 
of the dear bridegroom, but my dearest child's heart was 
too full to express any joy. Tho' I can with truth say 
that Ave parted with her entirely to our own, and her 
satisfaction, and that we have given her to a man, who 
we are Cully persuaded is most worthy of her, yet the 
scene was a most trying one. "We have had the happi- 
ness of hearing they got home very safe and were very 
well. Sir John, who possesses a heart which abounds 
with every tender feeling, was so good to send a serv 1 
here yesterday to give us this pleasing intelligence. We 
have promised to go to them on Tuesday next, and to 
stay there till Saturday, on which day, we shall go to 
Envil for the remainder of the winter. 

I flatter myself you will have the goodness to let me 
hear from you soon after I get there. I am anxious to 
hear how you do, and if you have had the same severe 
weather that we have had here, how it agrees with you. 
I thank God we are all well. 

My dear lord, and all my dear children that are now 
at home, desire me to offer every affectionate regard to 
you. The girls beg their love to Miss Port. 

I can write at present on no other subjects but my own 
concerns, and therefore I will stop my pen, as soon as 
I have assured my ever dear Mrs. Delany of the sincere 
esteem and affection of her 

Ever obliged and faithful, 

H. C. Stamford. 



1 Oakley, near Market Drayton, Staffordshire, one of the seats of the 
Chetwode family. 

X2 



300 LIFE AND COEKESPONDENCE 

The following postscript, written by Mrs. Delany to her nephew, 
Mr. J. Dewes, at Calwich, is all that remains of the letter, but it 
is probably all that appertained to the subject of his taking the 
name of Granville, being not only the son of Ann Granville, 
and consequently the great-grandson of Sir Bevil Granville, but 
the heir of his uncle Bernard Granville (his mother's brother^ 
who was also the heir of his uncle, George Granville, Lord Lans- 
downe. 

P.S. Time runs on, and our glass is spent before we 
are aware of it, even in old age, it is prudent in me not 
to suppress what has been for some time on my mind, 

I have always thought, that it was laudable, and 
proper, that names of respectable families shou'd be kept 
up ; especially by a direct descendant of so worthy and so 
great a man, as S r Bevil Granville, (who died for his King 
and country}, and not let his name sink in oblivion. I 
some time ago mention'd this ; you apprehended it was 
not particularly my brother's desire you shou'd take his 
name, but such reasons have started since as I am sure 
wou'd have convinced my brother Granville, that it 
ought to be done. These urgent reasons, which I cannot 
explain in a letter, and must be quite between ourselves, 
are relating to Earl Temple's family, and tho' it may be 
a matter of indifference to yourself, it may prove of con- 
sequence to your descendants. Upon the birth of your 
son, I thought it more incumbent for you to take it into 
consideration. The Dss p of Portland, Lord Guilford, 
Mr. F. Montagu, and many other friends, by all means 
think it a very becoming step for you to take, and this 
has been often urged to me, without my leading them 
at all into the subject ; which is a sanction to my own 
opinion, and I shall be happy if it agrees with yours. 



OF MBa DBLANT. 301 

I have said nothing io any of your family about this 
affair, only have always in general terms, wish'd it. 



Court J 1 . '" the U> r. J, lh wee, ai Cahokh. 

Dear brothbb Granville, Windsor, Oct 20th, 1785. 

For, after having received his Majesty's commands 
to call you so for y c future, I don't know whether it 
would not be a misdeameanof in me to do otherwise ! To 
be serious, I think from y" time you receive this letter 
you may assume the name. The King was here last 
night, he called me to him, he said lie heard y fc Mrs. 
1 Man y and y r Family wished you s d take y e name of 
Granville, and y 1 you desired it y r self. Y e King said he 
" thought it very proper," and bid me for y° future call 
you " Granville" and y e Queen, in a conversation after- 
wards with Mrs. Delany about you, family, called y r wife 
u Jfrs. Granville" and I will, if you think proper, write 
to Pardon to prepare y e instrument, and get it sealed and 
registered. 

I have been here since Tuesday. Their Majesties have 
spent two afternoons here, I have had a good deal of 
conversation, with y c King. I defer particulars till we 
meet, w cb I hope will be early in the winter. I return 
home on Monday y e 7 th . Mrs. Delany is wonderfully 
well, Mary Ann quite so ; we all join in kind love and 
congratulations to y'self and Mrs. Granville. I hope a 
second visit to Buxton has had a good effect upon Miss 
De la Bere. For myself, I think I mend, but not quite 
so quick as I could wish. I am, always, 

Yours affectionately, 

C. Dewes, 



302 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The following Diary appears to have been written to Mrs. 
Delany's dictation by Mrs. Astley, her waiting-woman. 

October 29, 1785. — The King, in the most gracious 
manner, told Mr. Dewes that he was informed that his 
youngest brother Mr. J. Dewes and the rest of the 
family were desirous that he should take the name of 
Granville, and that His Majesty was very well pleased 
it should be so immediately. 



The Earl of Guilford to Court Dewes, Esq. 
_ „ Waldershare, Oct. 30th, 1785. 

Dear S r , 

I return you a great many thanks for your very 
obliging letter, and account of Mrs. Delany's health, 
in which I, among the rest of her friends, feel myself 
deeply interested. I take a sincere share in the comfort 
she receives from her royal neighbours, they give them- 
selves pleasure in administering it ; and at the same 
time, do themselves credit. The change of weather to 
severe cold was so sudden, that it is a happiness that 
Mrs. Delany did not suffer more than she seems to have 
done. I hope there may be still some fine weather to 
set her right. I have had a little gout in my foot with- 
out much pain. It obliged me to wear a great laced 
shoe for some days, and I have still some flannel in my 
own shoes. I think it has been a great relief to my nerves 
and spirits, which stood very much in need of it, and I 
am, thank God, pure well. Affliction will make itself felt, 
(be the resistance made to it ever so great) ; but it is a 
lesson to teach us submission to the Divine will, and 
indulging or encouraging we may defeat the good in- 



OF MBS. PEL A NY. . o ,0.°, 

tended us by it. Poor Lord Dart mouth makes a very 
proper reflection upon his misfortune ;' that " the blessing 
he lias losi must not make him forget those which are 
continued to him." Mrs. Delany will be glad to hear lie 
and his family are as well in health as one could possibly 
expect : and so I hoar are L d and L y Willoughby. I beg 
the favour of you to present ray compliments and best 
wishes to Mrs. Delany and Miss Port, and be assured 
that I am, with great regard, dear s r , 

Your obedient and obliged 

Humble servant, 

Guilford. 



MRS. DELANY'S DIARY— continued. 

Saturday morning, Oct. 29th. — "Went with Mr. Dewes 
to Mr. Bryant ; found the Bishop of Chester and Mrs. 
Porteous there. 

Evening. — Mrs. Egerton, Miss Egerton. 

Sunday morning, 30th. — Went to the Cathedral church 
to hear the Bishop of Chester preach, who made a most 
excellent sermon. Met the King and Queen in the 
cloisters, who commanded me to attend them in the 
evening at the Lodge. Mr. Mordant from Eaton School 
dined here ; at 7 went to the Lodge. Mr. Dewes and 
Miss Port spent the evening at Lady Louisa Clay tens. 

Monday morning. — Mr. Dewes gone to London; at 
12 o'clock the Queen came, and staid till 2, Mr. Dewes 
returned from London at 4 ; at 5 Miss Goldsworthy 
brought a message from their Majesties, that I, Mr. 



« The Hon. William Legge, second son of the Earl of Dartmouth, died 
15th Oct., 1785, aged 19. 



304 LIFE AND COKRESPONDENCE 

Dewes, and Miss Port should go to the Lodge ; we went 
a little before 8 ; found the Queen at work, some of the 
princesses working, and others drawing ; a very fine 
concert, that lasted from 8 till 10. 

Tuesday, November 1. — Miss Clayton and Miss 
Emily called. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Glan Villa, 5th Nov., 1785. 

I cannot allow myself to write very frequently to my 
dear friend, because I cannot suppose that my letters are 
worth their postage, but now that I have a kind one 
of hers to acknowledge, and also two subjects of con- 
gratulation, I take up one of my bad pens without 
scruple. The newspapers tell me dear Lady Harriet 
Gray is marry'd, to whom I wish all happiness ; and the 
day before yesterday Miss Murray was so good to send 
me a kind note, to acquaint me with their satisfaction 
in Miss Elizabeth Murray's intended marriage to Mr. 
Hatton. 1 I am sure it must be a great one to my old 
acquaintance, Mrs. Hatton, 2 to receive such a treasure 
into her family ; for such I have always consider'd this 
young lady, and I do not believe that you who know her 
still better will contradict me. What a school of sense 
and virtue has she not been bred in, under good Lady 



1 Elizabeth Mary, daughter of David, 7th Viscount Stormont, by his first 
wife, Henrietta Frederica, daughter of Henry, Count Bunau, married, Dec. 
10th, 1785, George Finch Hatton, Esq., of Eastwell Park. Their son, George 
William Finch Hatton, became 9th Earl of Winchelsea. 

2 Elizabeth, daughter and coheiress of Sir Thomas Palmer, Bart., of 
Wingham, Kent, and widow of the Hon. Edward Finch Hatton, fifth son 
of Daniel, 2nd Earl of Nottingham. 



OF MRS. DELANT. 305 

Mansfield, and her own excellent aunt's, added to wisdom 
personnify'd} 

This morning in my airing, I mei Sir. and Mrs. Cole 
marching to London. I oou'd not persuade them to turn 
about and follow me, they pleaded an expectation of 
Mr. Symonds from the Continent: they seem'd very 
well, and told me onr good friends Mr. and Mrs Jenyns 
were perfectly so. I am at present in profound solitude, 
that is of an evening, for in the morning not only I take 
long airings, but I gossip with my neighbours at Totte- 
ridge, or Hadley. Mrs. Chapone is still further off, so 
that I have not yet been to visit her, but intend it soon. 
My daughters and their family are well ; I shall always 
rejoice to hear you are so, my dear friend, and hope you 
will give me that pleasure from time to time. My love 
to "the teal king lady." 

Ever yours, most gratefully, 
F. Boscawen. 

MRS. DELANY'S VIXRY -continued. 

Tuesday, 7th Nov. — Had a better night than for some 
time past : Mr. Lightfoot, and his daughter. 

Evening. — The Queen to tea — a little after the King ; 
they staid till near 9. 

Wednesday, 8th. — A very good night. 

Evening. — Miss Port went to Lady Louisa Clayton to 
sit with Miss Emily ; Lady L. C. came to me. 

Thursday, 9th. — A very poor night. To Eaton, paid 
the Provost a visit. 

Evening. — 3 princesses to tea, attended by Miss Golds- 
worthy. 



1 "Wisdom personified." — Lord Mansfield. 



306 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



The Rev. William Gilpin to Mrs. Delany, St. Allan's Street, Windsor, 

Vicar's Hill, Nov. 9th, 85. 

Dear Madam, 

You have highly gratifyed me, by telling me y e 
Queen has approved my book. 1 I can now with some 
confidence present it to her. How much I rejoice, dear 
mad m , in their Majesties behaviour to you ! I hear of it 
from all hands, and you are y e instrument of discovering 
virtues in y m , w h people could not believe dwelt in kings 
and queens. Kings and queens have often done generous 
things : but to shew y 3 kindness, attention and concern, 
seems to indicate feelings w h one would have thought 
could have fallen in their way ! For myself, I verily believe, 
if I had been a Jacobite, their behaviour to you would 
have made a convert of me. But now, madam, I must 
tell you, that you have offended me, beyond all ideas of 
forgiveness, by returning my books. They will probably 
not come abroad these several months, and when they 
do appear, you cannot taste (if there be anything to 
taste) any part of them, but what I sent ; for my prints, 
I fear, will be on too small a scale for y r eyes : and 



1 The 1st work published by the Rev. W. Gilpin, on " Picturesque Beauty," 
appeared in 1782, entitled " Observations on the River Wye and several parts 
of South Wales, &c." In 1787 Gilpin published " Observations on several 
parts of England, particularly the Mountains and Lakes of Cumberland and 
Westmoreland, &c." This work remained in manuscript 15 years. His friends 
were anxious that he should publish by subscription, and the Dowager Duchess 
of Portland sent him a donation of 100/. He, however, would not accept of 
her Grace's kindness, as he was " still afraid of an engagement with the public." 
Gray saw the work and alluded to it in some of his publications, which at 
length obliged Mr. Gilpin to publish it. It will be observed, in the course of 
Mr. Gilpin's letters, that he was not free from the fault of presumption, (a fault 
much more common in the present day,) and that the notice and encourage- 
ment justly awarded to his talents made him sometimes forget his own posi- 
tion or that of those he addressed. The above letter is an instance of this. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 307 

now, when I was pleasing myself with y* thoughts of 
renewing your ideas of a hook, you had once so much 
favoured, by shewing it to you in a more perfect state, 
you have destroyed all my pleasure at once, by sending 
my book back ! When L write to Blamire next, I will 
desire him to send it again; and I hope you will not 
mortify me a second time. It is an awkward thing, 
when a man is obliged to put a value on his presents ; 
but you must know, mad m , it pleased me to send it to 
you so many months before y c public w d have it. I have 
paid y° complim ts only to two or three of my critics, &c, 
who assisted me in my labonrs. The same post w b 
brought me your letter, brought me one also from 
L d Dartmouth. He is a good man, and bears y 1 last 
stroke with that fortitude and resignation you w d suppose. 
What a change (as he himself observes) have these years 
made in his family ! I am sorry to hear you say y e winter 
has already begun to take bold of you. You will soon, 
I suppose, hasten to town ; and I hope y e warmth of a 
London climate will be more congenial. 
Believe me, dear madam, 

Your most sincere, and obed* ser*, 

W. Gilpin. 



Mrs. Dclany to Mrs. Granville, at Calwich. 

St. Alban's Street, Windsor. 
Nov. 9th, 1785. 

I must congratulate you, my dear nephew and niece 
Granville, on the permission you have received for taking 
that name, which I hope you will enjoy many years, with 
as much honour as your ancestors have done, and I can 



308 LIFE AND COERESPONDENCE 

make no doubt of it. It has been granted you in so 
gracious a manner that it requires a personal acknowledg- 
ment, as soon as you can make it. It cannot be done in 
due form without your going to London to be pre- 
sented j but as that may be attended with some inconve- 
nience to you now, I think I can obviate that difficulty 
by your coming here, which will give me an opportu- 
nity of presenting you to the King ; whose goodness will 
accept of the offer of your duty in that manner. You and 
your dear wife will make me most happy by the visit ; 
and if you can bring little Johnny with you, tho' I 
can't lodge him, he may be with the Provost of Eton, 
who will be delighted to give him a lodging. If you agree 
with me in this proposal, which I hope you will do, I 
suppose you will call at Welsbourn in your way, and 
the sooner you put it in execution the better. I hope 
you will contrive to spend a week with me ; to be here 
by the 20th, wou'd be a very convenient time to me. 
But sooner, rather than later, as I expect your brother 
Bernard the end of this month. Your niece is overjoyed 
in the hopes that this plan will take effect. On recol- 
lection, and on all accounts, it will be better for you to 
be at Windsor by the 18th, and if I can't be so happy as 
to have your wife too — you must come without her. 



On the 9th of November Mrs. Delany thus writes to Mrs. 
Frances Hamilton — 

" I have been several evenings at the Queen's Lodge, 
with no other company but their own most lovely family. 
They sit round a large table, on which are books, work, 
pencils, and paper. The Queen has the goodness to 



OF MRS. DK1.ANY. 309 

make me sit down next to herj and delights me with 
her conversation, which is informing, elegant, and pleas- 
ing, beyond description ; whilst the younger part of the 
family are drawing and working, &c. &c., the beautiful 
babe, Princess Amelia, bearing her part in the entertain- 
ment ; sometimes in one of her sister's laps; sometimes 
playing with the King on tin 4 carpet; which, altogether, 
exhibits Buch a delightful scene, as would require an 
Addison's pen, or a Vandyke's pencil, to do justice to it. 
In the next room is the hand of music, which plays from 
eight o'clock till ten. The King generally directs them 
what pieces of music to play, chiefly Handel. Here I 
must stop, and return to my house. Mr. Dewes came 
here on the 25th of October ; on the 28th their Majesties, 
the five princesses, and the youngest princes, came at 
seven o'clock in the evening to drink tea with me. All 
the princesses and princes had a commerce table, — Miss 
Emily Clayton, daughter to Lady Louisa Clayton, and 
Miss Port, did the honours of it. It gave me a pleasant 
opportunity of presenting Mr. Dewes to their Majesties ; 
the King took gracious notice of him ; and having heard 
that his youngest brother wished to take the name of 
Granville, said to Mr. Dewes, that he " desired he might, 
from that time, be called by that name," and gave orders 
that his sign manual should be prepared for that pur- 
pose, which has accordingly been done. I hear Mr. 
Edward Hamilton is in England. I hope, if he makes a 
visit to his friend Lord Harcourt, I may have a chance of 
seeing him. 

" Miss Port is very well, and very happy, I am much 
flattered by the approbation she meets with." 



310 



LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



MRS. DELANY'S DIARY— continued. 

Friday evening, 10th. — The King, the Queen, and three 
princesses drank tea. 

Saturday morning and evening. — Mrs. and Miss 
Egerton. 

Sunday morning. — Went to church to the cathedral. 
Mr. Majendy 1 preached an excellent sermon. 

Evening. — Went to the Queen's Lodge, came home at 
half an hour after ten. 



The Countess of Stamford to Mrs. Delany. 

My dearest Friend, Envii, Nov. nth, 1785. 

Pray accept the united thanks of all your friends 
here for your friendly congratulations. Believe me, we 
are truly sensible of the affectionate share you are so 
good to take in our present happiness. I wish you could 
have taken a peep at us a few days since, when we had 
the felicity to make our dearest Harriet, and her most 
amiable husband, our first visit. I cannot describe to 
you our mutual joy, nor the feelings of a parent's heart, 
on seeing a beloved child settled in the most comfortable 
manner, and with the most reasonable prospect of lasting 
happiness. Good sense, religion, and a most angelic 
temper, are three most desirable qualities ; and most likely 
to constitute, as well as to procure, happiness. These, 
I am happy to say, I think Sir John Chetwode possesses 
in a high degree. I will not fail to do every justice in 
my power to the kind wishes you make for them, and I 



1 The Rev. Henry William Majendie, Canon-residentiary of St. Paul's, made 
Bishop of Chester in 1800, translated to Bangor in 1809, died 1830. 



OF Mils. DELANY. 311 

iim sure they will think themselves greatly obliged to 
you. Allow me, in their name, to offer you their grateful 
thanks, and I must add, wiy Harriet's kindest love. My 
lord and my girls desire me to assure you of theirs, and 
Ihey desire you will be so good to mention them in the 
kindest manner to .Miss Port, 

It gives me real pleasure to hear that your new situa- 
tion agrees with you, and I beg to congratulate you on 
the gracious manner in which His Majesty has been 
pleased to call Mr. John Dewes to take the name of 
GramriUe. 

The number of letters with which I have been favor 'd 
on the late happy event, have taken up a good deal of my 
time, and I am ashamed to say, I am still greatly in 
arrear. This will, I am sure, plead my excuse for not 
adding anything more at present, but the assurance of 
my being, with the warmest regard, 

My dearest friend, 
Yours most affect ly and sincerely, 

H. C. Stamford. 

P. S. Permit me to trouble you to send the inclosed 
to L y Louisa Clayton. 



The Earl of Guilford to Mrs. Dda«y. 
at Waldershare, Nov. 17th, 1783. 

I have been so disconcerted with the misfortunes 
of Lord and Lady Willoughby's having lost one of their 
fine boys, of a short and sudden illness, at this place, 
that I hope you will forgive my having delay'd giving 
you Her Majesty's answer to my grandson when he pro- 



312 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

posed to her the endeavouring to get an exchange for her 
present nomination to the Charter House to secure Mr. 
George Row Port. Her Majesty expressed a very great 
desire that he should succeed as soon as he was capable 
of being appointed, and assured my grandson that she 
would certainly get an exchange which should secure his 
being admitted at that time ; but that she was obliged 
to fill the present vacancy according to an old promise 
which she had made to my Lord Delawarr. I therefore 
look upon Mr. Port's success, as soon as he is capable of 
being admitted, may be reckoned as sure as one ought to 
think anything to be in this world. Poor Lord and Lady 
Willoughby bear their great loss with Christian resigna- 
tion, and are as well as they could have been expected 
to be, considering the anxious state they are in, on 
account of poor Miss Harriett, who, though in some 
degree mended f is far from being cured. I feel very 
uneasy so far from poor Lord and Lady Willoughby, 
and am getting my business over here as fast as I can, 
in order to get near them, and hope to be in town by 
the first week in December. I beg the favour of you to 
present my best respects to the Duchess Dowager of 
Portland, and believe me with the most sincere esteem 
and regard, 

Madam, 

Your most obedient and obliged humble servant, 

Guilford. 

I hope my Lady Duchess 1 and you have both enjoyed 
your health this fine autumn. 

1 This letter has been misplaced in consequence of the date having been 
misread for 1785 instead of 1783. The Dowager Duchess of Portland died in 
July of this year. 



OF MRS, OKI. ANN. 313 

'!%• Eari of Quitford to Mrs, Delany. 

% _ Waldershare, N r . 29*, 1785. ' 

Madam, 

I am extreamly flatter'd by your kind reproach 
tor my not haying troubled you more frequently with 
accounts of myself, for sometime after I came here, they 
would have been very unpleasant, as I was exceedingly 
low spirited, and in very indifferent health; but a little 
-out in one foot, without being any confinement, and 
composing my mind to whatever pleases God, relieved 
my spirits ; and I have been for some time surprizingly 
well. The Dean of Eochester, Mrs. Dampier and Miss 
Shuck passed a week with me; I have since that had 
the Bishop of Winchester, Mrs. North and their eldest 
daughter (a very sensible, fine girl) with me, near a 
fortnight ; but I must turn them out in a few days, that 
I may dispatch my necessary business before I set out 
for London. They desire me to present to you their 
best compliments. It gives me very great pleasure to 
hear cold weather does not affect your health, and that 
it is better than you had reason to expect. I am clearly 
»f opinion that if the Queen wishes you to stay at 
Windsor as long as she is there, it would be right for 
you to do it, if the coldness of the air does not seem to 
Bsagree with you; but if it appears to do so, I am sure 
die will not wish you to remain there. I fear your return 
:o London will affect you ; but you must arm yourself 
igainst it, and follow the example of Lord Dartmouth, 
vl >" sajs, though his losses are very great, they don't 
oake him unmindfull of the comforts which are left to 
rim. The kindness and attentions of those who one 
PART ir. — vol. in. v 



314 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

esteems and respects are the greatest comforts one can 
enjoy in a state of low spirits, and you possess them in 
the greatest perfection in the honours and favours their 
Majesties heap upon you ; which have certainly contri- 
buted much to your health. I dare say they feel as much 
pleasure in observing how properly their favours are be- 
stowed, as you have in contemplating their great good- 
ness of heart. Lord and Lady Dartmouth, after whom 
you are so good as to enquire, are come to town, and I 
hear in as good health as could be expected. They are 
going to make a visit to Lord Lewisham at a house he 
has taken near Cobham, and mean when they return to 
fix in London for the winter. Lord North and his 
family are well at Bushy Park, where they talk of 
remaining till late in January. I have had very lately 
a letter from our friend Fred. Montague, from the Dean 
of York. He says Mrs. Wilson complains of being 
very weak, and he is there ready to set out if she should 
wish him to come to Exeter. Lord and Lady Wil- 
loughby are well at Marsh-Grate, and will, I believe, stay 
there till January. I fear I have lost the pleasure of a 
letter in which you mentioned the gracious manner in 
which the King had given your youngest nephew to 
take the name of Granville. But it does not surprize 
me, as since the establishment of a mail coach to Dover, 
there has been innumerable mistakes and a terrible un- 
certainty in the conveyance of letters. One neither 
knows when they arrive, nor whether they will arrive at 
all. My guests leave me on Thursday, and I hope to 
finish my business in time to get to London the latter 
end of the next week, or early in the week after ; and if 
[ find you don't come to town till January, and the 



OF MBS. DBLANY. 315 

weather should be favourable, it is not impossible, but I 
may find an opportunity of making you a visit. But I 
can't venture to promise it. I hope all your nephews 
and nieces are well, and beg you to make my best com- 
pliments to Miss Port, and tell her I take a very sincere 
share in her happiness. I flatter myself it is unnecessary 
for me to repeat that L am always, with the sincerest 
esteem and regard, 

Dear Madam, 
Your most obliged and faith full humble servant, 

Guilford. 



MRS. DELANY'S VIXUY—contiiwed. 

Nov. 30th, 17S5. — Continued all day very low. Mrs. 
Sandford read part of the Memoirs of the Life of Dean 
Swift. Miss Planta came again in the evening with 
particular enquiries from the Queen. The pictures were 
put up in the drawing-room. 

Thursday, Dec. 1st. — Mr. Sandford returned to London. 
I had but an indifferent night. Miss Planta to enquire 
again after me from the Queen. 

Miss Burney writing. Miss Port learning French. 

Evening. — The King and Queen. 

Princess Elizabeth very ill with an inflammation on 
her lungs. 

Friday morning, 2nd. — Lady Cremorne. A better night. 

Princess Elizabeth confined, and Sir George Baker 
sent for ; was bled 5 times in 48 hours. 

Miss Emily Clayton dined here ; stayed the evening. 

I was very indifferent and not able to dine at table. 

Princess Elizabeth rather better. 

y2 



316 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Saturday morning, 3rd. — Had a pretty good night, but 
grew low and faint after breakfast. 

Princess Elizabeth still better. 

Evening. — King and Queen to tea. 

Sunday morning, 4th. — Not well enough to go to 
church. Much alarmed about Princess Elizabeth, who 
had had a bad night. 

Evening. — Went to the Queen's Lodge. 

Monday morning, 5th. — Princess Elizabeth much 
mended. The Provost of Eaton called. Lady Louisa 
Clayton. 

Evening. — Lady Louisa Clayton to tea. Sent for again 
to the Lodge. Still greater amendment in Princess 
Elizabeth. Staid till half past ten. 

Tuesday morning, 6th. — Good accounts continued of 
Princess Elizabeth. 

Miss Burney went to Mrs. Walsingham'sT 

The present period will be a proper time to insert some extracts 
from letters of the excellent Mrs. Agnew, the waiting-woman of 
Mrs. Delany, who was a clergyman's daughter, and to whom 
allusion has been frequently made in this correspondence under 
the name of Astley, and who married after the death of Mrs. 
Delany. Mrs. Agnew was alive and residing at Windsor in 
1832, and that she was in the full possession of her faculties is 
proved by her letters, several of which are in the possession of 
the Editor, in her own handwriting. On the 29th of November, 
1832, she thus expresses herself: — "I am grieved to think 
Madame D'Arblay should have brought forward the name of my 
beloved mistress in the way she has in her late public work. I 
am more surprised and vexed than I can express. To Mrs. 
Delany she was under such great obligations, and from that cir- 
cumstance will enjoy £100 a year for life ; but authors and 
authoresses take great latitude, they make mountains of molehills." 



Ifita DELANY. 317 

In allusion to the very circumstantial particulars which 

Madame P'ArMay thought proper to recount for the edification 
of the public, the following comments wore made by Mrs. De- 
lanv's faithful attendant, who was also her housekeeper, and who 

expresses herself naturally and characteristically in that official 

capacity ! 

"Except a small basket of vegetables once a week, not any- 
thing once in a month was ever sent by the Duchess of Portland, 
who never had company at her own house. She drank tea in 
St. James's Place all the winter, when Mrs. Delany invited those 
who the Duchess liked to meet. I had to make tea at many 
different times (and a pound of fine tea, at 16s. a pound, was 
gone in no time), with cakes, and etcs. As to money, I am 
certain not even the present of the least trifle did the Duchess 
ever give Mrs. Delany ; but her spending the summer at Bul- 
strode, and giving her delightful society entirely to herself, 
so offended her brother, Mr. Granville, when he asked her to 
meet some particular friends, that upon her refusal he altered 
his will, and after awarding Mrs. Delany £300 a year for her life 
if she survived him, he left her nothing. If Madame D'Arblay 
had mentioned these things as they really were, it might have 
suited herself quite as well, if not better, and done more credit 
to herself. At the Duchess of Portland's death her three nephews 
ail wrote to say how ready they were in every way to assist in 
making her happy, but the King gave her a house at Windsor 
and .£300 a year, saying, ' they ivished to have a lady of such dis- 
tinguished merit near them? As to Madame D'Arblay 's looking 
over Mrs. Delany's letters and papers, I doubt the truth of it, 
with good reason, for more than a fortnight before we left St. 
James's place I was employed upon them every morning in ex- 
amining and burning a large box of letters, which grieved me to 
destroy, as some of them were written by the first people in the 
world ; but I was obliged to obey, and observed at the time that the 
box of letters (containing hundreds) would have been a fortune 
to anybody were they published. ' That is what I want to pre- 
.' was the answer. But if Madame D'A. happened to look 



318 LIFE AND CORKESPONDENCE 

over one letter or MS., that tvas enough for an authoress to 
build upon ! As to Mrs. Delany 's life, the early part of it was 
ivritten by herself, and she employed me to go on with it 1 a 
short time only, when it was not continued, saying, * her friends 
knew her latter years, and therefore would add no more,' so what 
there could be for Madame D 'Arblay to revise i" know not, I 
cannot be certain who Mrs. Delany gave pictures to. The 
flowers given to the Queen may be in possession of Madame 
Beckendorf." 

On the 13th of December Mrs. Agnew wrote : — " Madame 
D'Arblay has not stuck exactly to truth, and in many respects 
has taken the advantage of very little to build on. When she 
speaks of Mrs. Delany, ' not thinking of discomfitted affairs,' if she 
means in a pecuniary way, they never ivere so during her know- 
ledge of Mrs. Delany. 

" It is surprising to me how Madame D'Arblay could mention 
the two friends in the way she has done ; she must fancy she 
was writing a novel, and therefore could embellish her story in 
any way she liked. Every character she has brought forward 
tends to raising herself and her family a step and a step higher, 
from the great connexions (of those persons), who had obtained 
a name in the world from their great abilities or rank in life. 

" As to the papers Madame D'A. speaks of as having examined, 
they could only be letters just received. I wonder Madame 
D'A. calls herself the ' rbbe-keeper f it strikes me that appellation 
was only due to Mrs. Schellenbergen, who had the care of every- 
thing belonging to the Queen, and she must have been wider the 
lady who was mistress of the robes. Her Majesty had two 
dressers, but there could be but one keeper of the robes, which 
was the head-dresser, Mrs. Schwellenberg. How angry would 
she be, was she living, to see her title taken from her ! Princess 
Elizabeth certainly would not have mentioned Her Majesty in 
any other way to Dr. Burney but by the title of ' Queen/ but to 
H. M. I heard her (the Princess E.) say myself ' mamma.' I 



1 This was the dictated fragment published in the 1st vol. of this work, 
which was in the handwriting of Mrs. Agnew. 



OF MBS. DBLANY, 319 

attended her R. 11. for several weeks once when her dresser was 

ill. A new pair of stays happened to be brought, the Princess 

; told me the Queen would come in to see if they fitted properly. 

When her Majesty came in she fell them here and there, saying, 
* Elizabeth, they are too tight. 1 ' Indeed, mamma, they are not,' 
was the answer. Then turning to me the Queen said, ' What do 

mm think t I said that her R. H. must be the best judge if 
they did not hurt her, and thus ended the business." 

Mrs, Agnew afterwards alluded to a letter which she had re- 
ceived from Madame D'Arblay, which she says, "was certainly a 
very friendly one, and to give me a set of books is paying me a 
great compliment ; but it cannot blind me to praise what I am 
fery much vexed at, and I feel a regret in taking what 1 really 
cannot value ; but I must ; but I shall be very careful not to take 
the least notice of the merits or demerits of the book when I 
write to Madame D'Arblay. I think Madame D'Arblay has 
mentioned very few of Mrs. Delany's friends. I recollect Lady 
Bute, Lady Templeton, Lady Spencer, Lady Charlotte Finch, 

I Lady Louisa Clayton, Lady Juliana Penn, Lady Tweeddale, 
Lady Stamford, Lady Weymouth, Lady Jerningham, Lady 
"Walling ford, Lady , whose title I forget (who was the 

; mother of Miss Howard), also Mrs. Sandford, Mrs. Walsingham, 
Mrs. Montague, Mrs. Boscawen, Mrs. Carter, Mrs. Chapone, and 
many others. Of gentlemen I recollect Lord Guilford, Lord 
Mansfield, Bishop of Exeter, Bishop of Worcester, Mr. Montague, 
Mr. Bryant, Mr. Smelt. All the above personages I remember 

i calling in the morning, or visiting her in the evening. She had 
the first interest in the kingdom. During Lord Shelburne's time 
in office she obtained several good situations for different people. 
She often wrote to Lord Thurlow in favour of clergymen, and 

I never thought anything of her own trouble when there was a 
chance of doing good, and was never more happy than when she 
could bring into notice young artists who promised to excel. 
Opie and Lawrence owed her much. In short, every one who 
was eminent in their way had a helping hand from this best of 
human beings to bring them forward. If Madame D'Arblay 



320 



LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



had mentioned something like this, (though in better language,) 
she would have done more credit to herself and justice to her 
friend ; but wishes are vain now to make it otherwise ! You 
know all I have said to be fact, and you must pardon me for 
saying so much on one subject, but I am never tired when I am 
talking (as I think) to you about my beloved mistress." 

Mrs. Agnew sums up her opinion of Madame D'Arblay by 
saying that she really believes that she had a great regard for 
Mrs. Delany, but that she was so in the habit of " composing 
fictions" in her novels, that she was not to be depended upon 
where she desired to work up an effect, or herself to produce an 
impression. 



t. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, 5th Dec, 1785. 

I return my dear friend many thanks for her kind 
present of a pot of lampries, w cb as usual was excellent, 
and which remains to relish many days more ; but 
besides your favour, my dear madam, I have had a morti- 
fication, Lady Bute having imparted the unwelcome 
news of your indisposition, so as to be let blood, which I 
am afraid implies fever ; I must, therefore, intreat the 
" walking lady " (now the fair writing lady) to tell me if 
you are perfectly recovered ; to know so much from her 
will be a singular comfort to me. Mr. and Mrs. Jenyns 
just arrived in perfect preservation. The Bishop of 
Exeter, who was here the other night and met Mr. and 
Mrs. Cole, also in the number of enquirers how you are. 

I cannot convince the Bishop that I borrow' d his 
sermon (printed) of you last spring; but I did, and 
return' d it. He thinks it was not printed at the time I 



OF Mils. DBLANY. 321 

pretend to have seen it, and I may not be accurate as to 
the time. I have no news to feel] you but "of offence 
and trouble," that Lady Man CornwaUis, 1 a very young 
lady indeed, is gone off to Scotland with a Mr. Singleton, 
oi' the Guards, a younger brother. At least, so I heard 
last night, and this morning I read that the Countess 
Dowager of Gornwallis 9 is dead y as if she were spared the 
grief of seeing such an enormity in her family, for I can 
hardly give it a gentler name — as the young lady is not 
yet of an age even to be presented to Her Majesty, has 
had the boldness to commit herself for so many hundred 
miles, to the care of a young man with whom she can 
have had but a slight acquaintance ; she took no female 
attendant or cloathes. It must be a great trouble to 
Mrs. CornwaUis, 3 and a most ungrateful return for all 
her care and kindness ; it was, however, lucky that she 
did not run from her, but from her father's house in 
Suffolk, where she was under the care of his sister, Lady 
Betty Southwell, 4 and she took the opportunity of his 
lordship's being absent attending upon his dying mother. 
It seems Captain Singleton's parents are very worthy 
people, and have a very large estate (in Ireland), but 
they have an elder son, so the appoint mts of this younger 
one are probably very inadequate to his own expenses, as 



1 Debrett's Peerage records that Lady Mary CornwaUis, daughter of 
Charles, 1st Marquis CornwaUis, married "Mark Singleton, Esq., Principal 
Storekeeper of the Ordnance." 

- Elizabeth, daughter of Charles, 2nd Viscount Townshend, and widow 
of Charles, 1st Earl CornwaUis, died Dec. 1st, 1785. 

a Probably Catherine, daughter of Galfridus Mann, Esq., and wife of the 
lion. Jamefl CornwaUis, Bishop of Lichfield and Coventry in 1781, who 
became 4th Earl CornwaUis in 1823. 

4 Wife of Bo wen Southwell, Esq. 



322 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

he lias the honour (et le malheur) to belong to the 
Prince of Wales's sett ; and is not for that the better 
qualify'd to marry and settle. Since I wrote this I have 
seen Mrs. Walsingham, who tells me she is to rob you of 
Miss Burney to-morrow. She has had a more satis- 
factory account of her son, who is arriv'd at Hieres, 
without suffering from the fatigue of so long a journey. 
Mr. Hatton has taken a house in Upper Harley Street. 
Mrs. Hatton was here yesterday, and promises herself 
she shall now soon see a delightful daughter-in-law, 
probably before Lord Mansfield and family remove to 
Iven Wood for the holidays. Sir Joshua Eeynolds l 
has painted an admirable portrait of his Lordship. His 
friends say it is too old, but indeed it is the truth, 

I am to dine in company with Admiral Campbell 2 to- 
day, and will enquire after the young sailor Sandford. 

"F. Boscawen. 



1 Sir Joshua Reynolds was born at Plympton, in Devonshire, where his 
father was Master of the Free Grammar School. Lord Mount Edgcumbe 
was his earliest patron, and introduced him to Admiral Keppel, with 
whom he went on board the " Centurion " to the Mediterranean. Staying- 
two months at Minorca with General Blakeney, he proceeded from thence 
by way of Leghorn to Rome. He visited most of the Italian cities, and 
returned through France to England, having been absent three years and 
a half. His fame is said to have been first established in London by his 
full-length portrait of Admiral Keppel standing on the sea-shore. In 1763, 
on the foundation of the Royal Academy, he was chosen President, and 
received the honour of Knighthood. His life henceforth was spent in 
successful devotion to his favourite art. He died Feb. 22nd, 1792, aged 68, 
and was buried in St. Paul's Cathedral. As a fine artist, a favourite of 
Lord Mount Edgcumbe's, and a West-countryman, Sir Joshua had a 
triple claim on Mrs. Boscawen. 

2 Admiral John Campbell, Governor of Newfoundland from 1782 to 
1784, died in 1791. 



OV MBS. DELANY, 323 



TJic lion, Mrs, Baoa w en to Mrs. Delany. 

And. Str., Saturday, nth Dec, 1785. 

Last Monday, my dear madam, I dispatch'd a letter to 
you, just as I was going to the Admiralty to dinner, at 
£ past 4. There I met Ad 1 Campbell, and inquir'd 
earnestly after Mr. Sandfoid. He told me that he did 
very well, was a good young man, nor had he ever heard 
any complaint of him whatever, unless perhaps that "he 
was not quite careful enough of his things, which wou'd 
be his mother's loss, not his." I reported to her the 
good testimony without mentioning this little circum- 
stance, w cb with 4 sons, is probably not new to her. I 
think she looks much healthier than usual, has not so 
many wraps, and no hood upon her head, and is in all 
respects the better for her airy situation. Her little 
saylor-son came in, and he is grown fat and very sturdy. 
I saw Mrs. Chapone also this morning. What a satis- 
faction wou'd it be to know that the Princess Elizabeth 
ifl well advanc'd in her recovery, and that the whooping 
cough has not spread ; for it is a very severe disorder. 
Miss Port will be so good to tell me, for nobody can be 
indifferent to anything that affects Her Majisty so much. 

L d John Eussell 1 is marry' d to one of L d Torrington's 
daug r \ I do not know when the marriage 2 that interests 



1 Lord John Russell, second son of Francis Eussell, Marquis of Tavistock. 
He married, first, March 21, 1786, Georgiana Elizabeth, second daughter of 
George, 4th Viscount Torrington ; and second, June 23rd, 1803, Georgiana, 
daughter of Alexander, Duke of Gordon. Lord John Russell, on the death 
1 of his brother, May 2nd, 1802, succeeded tohis honours, and became 6th 
Duke of Bedford. 

- The Hon. Elizabeth Mary Murray, eldest daughter of David, 7th 

Viscount Stormont, and great-niece to WiUiam, 1st Earl of Mansfield, 

> married, Dec. 10th, 1785, George Finch Hatton, Esq., of East well Park, 

•:t. 



324 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

you is to be, but I believe soon. I saw L d Stormont 1 
last night at Lady Charl. Wentworth's, where was also 
Lady Cecilia Johnston, who shew'd me a letter from 
L y M* Edgcumbe, full of joy at my L ds great amendm 1 . 

Mrs. Garrick and Mrs. More were here this morning, 
and enquir'd after you. They are going to Mrs. 
Walsingham. L d Cremorne is much better, thank God ! 
Lady Cork 2 will hardly recover. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Bam. 

Windsor, Dec. 21st, 1785. 

My dearest Mary, 

As my not having been well, has been mentioned 
to you, I thought a line by my own hand, tho' a sad 
scrawl, would give you some satisfaction, but I find I 
cannot proceed, and must give my pen and ink into an 
abler hand. 

I received Mr. Port's letters, but it is not in my power 
to answer them. Tho' I dayly feel a decay of my faculties, 
there is none in my affection. I shall be happy to hear 
your health is better, and that you enjoy all your chil- 
dren at this time assembled. My love and best wishes 
of the season attend you all. This morning Bernard 
and his very engaging girl left us. 

I don't think it likely that G. R. P. will be established 
in the Charter House before next Easter. Please God, 



1 David Murray, 7th Viscount Stormont, who succeeded at his uncle's 
death, in 1793, to the Earldom of Mansfield. 

2 Anne, daughter of Kelland Courtenay, Esq., first wife of Edmund 
Boyle, 7th Earl of Cork, died Dec. 10th, 1785. Her marriage had been 
dissolved in 1782, 



OF MRS. DELANY, 325 

T hope \\v shall meel the beginning of next March, and 
that you will have the satisfaction of seeing him take 
his place. I can fix no time for my removing from 
hence, bul at soonesi 1 believe it will be the end of Jan y , 
and I have some regulations to make in my house in 
London, which will hurry me much on my first going to 
town, which \ can ill hear. 

Miss Burney 1 is still with me, but leaves me the 
beginning of January. She is, indeed, a most valuable 
acquaintance, and on Mary's account, as well as my own, 
I am happy to have as much of her company as T can. 

Princess Eliza th is now, I hope, out of danger ; but she 
has given great alarm here. 

I must add Mary's duty and love. Believe me, my 
dearest Mary, unalterably yours 

Affectionately, 
M. D 

Tlie Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Christmas Eve, 1785. 

With or without the favour of a letter from you, my 
dearest madam, (w ch , however, I have just now had to my 
great contentment,) I resolv'd to scribble my best wishes 
for your pleasant holydays, and many happy returns of 
them, in the midst of nephews and nieces, and surrounded 
by — (I will not pretend to say what, unless I had 



1 At this period (the previous month) Miss Burney recounts the delicate 
dih mma in which she had nearly been involved by her narrow escape of not 
seeing the King when he came to see Mrs. Delany alone. The Editor 
believes the Queen wished Mrs. Delany to ascertain Miss Burney's powers 
as a Reader, with a view t<j her being employed in that way occasionally if 
appointed as one. 



326 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

more time to find proper terms to define and admire it !) 
But the post-bell is apt to tingle, the dinner-bell to ring. 
Mrs. H. More is sitting by. The Bishop of Exeter was 
here in the morning ; so was Lady Juliana Penn. Else I 
shou'd have got a letter ready for the early demand of 
this new fashion d post, w ch I don't like one bit. I have 
spent a pleasant week, which I owe to Her Majesty's 
bounty, (so extensive is it !) for Mrs. Leveson came up 
to pay Her duty at the drawing-room, Bill Hill (y e old 
and pleasant Bill Hill) having been honour' d with a 
Boyal visit ! Y r assurance of the Princess Elizabeth's 
recovery is most welcome, God be praised ! for I fear'd 
such repeated discipline might be too much ! Now, my 
dearest madam, I must leave you for this same dinner, 
(upon table,) and cannot say how much I am, 

F. B. 

MRS. DELANY'S DIARY— continued. 

Wednesday morning, Dec. 28th. — Miss Egerton ; 
Mrs. Ann Egerton. 

Evening. — The King and Queen. 

Thursday morning, 29th. — Mrs. Ann Egerton. 

Evening. — Dr. Lind. 

Friday, 30th. — Miss Egerton. 

Evening. — The Queen came at half-past 6 to take me 
with her to the Lodge ; I followed, and staid there till 
half-past ten; between 9 and 10, Princess Elizabeth had 
a return of the spasms, which continued very strong all 
night. 

Saturday morning, Dec. 31st. — Princess Elizabeth still 
very indifferent. Sir George Baker had been with her. 

Saturday evening.- — The frost extream. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 327 

The Earl of Guilford to Mrs. Ddamj 

Dec. 30th, 
Madam, 

I am extreamly sensible of the honor Pier Majesty 

does me, in condescending to take the least notice of the 

attention which inclination as well as duty, has always 

prompted me to pay to her. I am sadly pinched by the 

weather, but get out a little in my coach, exceedingly 

wrapped up, in the warmest part of the day ; and hope I 

shall get my self in order to attend Her Majesty at the 

Queen's House on Wednesday. I am exceedingly glad to 

hear the Princess Elizabeth goes on so well. Lady Brude- 

nell 1 mends every day; I am very glad the Princess's 

whooping coughs are abating. If Miss Port gets that 

disorder, don't let her cough, or breathe, near you, if you 

have not had it. I shall give your compliments and 

good wishes to my family ; I am sure they concurr with 

me, in every good wish to you and Miss Port. Believe 

me, madam, 

Your most obedient and obliged 

Humble servant, 

Guilford. 

Dec. 30th. I sent a servant with your letter. I am 
glad you name a time for coming to town. 



1 Anne, eldest daughter of George, Viscount Lewisham, and sister of 
the Earl of Dartmouth, married, 23rd Nov., 1 76< >, the lion. James Brudenell, 
who was created, in 1780, Baron Brudenell, and succeeded to the Earldom 
of Cardigan on the death of his brother in May, 1700. Lady Brudenell 
died 1-th J an., 17^0. 



328 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 

1786—1788. 

MRS. DELANY'S DIARY— continued. 

Jan. 1st, 1786. Sunday morning. — Too cold to go 
to church ; Miss Port and Miss Murray went with 
Madam Lafite to see Mr. Jarvise's painting. Princess 
Eliz. rather better, tho' the spasms continue. 

Evening. — The King and the Queen, and Lady Louisa 
Clayton. 

Monday morning, 2nd. — Intensely cold ; Princess 
Eliz. much the same ; Miss Planta to breakfast. D r Lind. 

Evenin g. — Nobody. 

Tuesday morning, 3rd. — A consultation with Mr. 
Gray ; the Queen and Princess Eoyal ; Princess Augusta 
who came from Princess Eliz., who had had a very 
severe return of her spasms. 

In the evening went to the Lodge. Princess Eliz. 
continued very indifferent. 



OF MRS, DELANY. 829 

A Queen Charlotte to Mrs. Dchtni/. 
[In tho Queens own handwriting.] 

My dear Mrs. Delant, 

According io my promise I have the pleasure of 
acquainting you that dear Buffering Elizabeth has had 
altogether about ten hours very comfortable sleep. Her 
ppassms still continue, but I natter myself that the inter- 
vals are longer. I hope to hear that you, my dear 
madam, do not surfer by this severe day ; it is the most 
uncomfortable feeling day wee have had yet, and tho in 
general no change of weather makes me angry, I shall 
certainly quarrel with it to day if you are unwell. 
Your very affectionnate friend, 

Charlotte. 

Q. L., the 4th f January, 1786. 

I should have wrote sooner, but was prevented by 
going early to the Lower Lodge. 



The Earl of Guilford to Mrs. Delany. 

London, Jan. 4th, 1786. 

Dear Madam, 

I am exceedingly obliged to you for your kind 
note by the coach ; it was of great use, by giving me an 
idea that the Queen would not come to town to-day ; tho' 
the weather is so severe, I don't think I should have dared 
to attend her, and am afraid I must ask leave to send 
my deputy to-morrow. I am very much concerned to 
hear no better account of the Princess Elizabeth, and for 
the anxiety you are all under upon her account, and take 
a most sincere share in it. The weather I fear has 

PART II. — VOL. III. Z 



330 LIFE AND COEEESPONDENCE 

affected poor Lady Brudenell, who has had an increase of 
fever, been bloodied again, is to be blistered and to take 
James's Powder, and I am very uneasy about her. 1 
Thank God you keep well ! Believe me, dear madam, 
Your obedient, and much obliged 

Humble servant, 

Guilford. 

My best compliments wait on Miss Port. 



The Countess of Bute to Mrs, Delany. 

London, Jan. 4th, 1786. 

How do you find yourself, my dear madam, in this 
bitter cold weather ? I am almost froze by the fireside, 
and heartily wish your house at Windsor may be so warm 
and comfortable, you may not feel the inclemency of the 
season ; but fear you have at present a very painful 
scene before you, tho', as report always exaggerates, I 
flatter myself the Pss Elizabeth is not so ill as she is 
represented to be. I feel much for all the Eoyal family, 
and I am sure you do so to. 

I am very glad you have had the pleasure of seeing 
your nephew and neices ; and hope you have good 
accounts of those you have not seen, as I wish you may 
enjoy every comfort and happiness ! these are the usual 
comp ts of the season, but at all seasons they are mine 
towards my dear friend. 

London continues very empty, and I suppose will not 
fill till the Parliament meets ; I'm afraid you will also 
remain at Windsor longer than was intended, but while 



1 Lady Brudenell died eight days afterwards in due course of treatment, 



OF MRS. DELANY. 331 

you arc well there, I will not repine, notwithstanding 
it is so great a loss to 

Tour ever faithful and affectionate, 

M. W. Bute. 

Louisa's 1 kindest compliments, with both our good 
wishes, to Miss Port. 



TJic Countess of Bute to Mrs. Delany. 

Loudon, Jan. 7th, 1786. 

Our writing the same day, my dear madam, is a proof 
we thought of one another, and I am now to thank you 
for your kind remembrance, and the good account you 
have given me of yourself. I hope this sudden change 
of weather will not be the cause of your having any 
complaint, and flatter myself it will be favourable to the 
Princess Elizabeth. What you say of her comforts me 
very much, for since the spasms have not affected her 
head, I think they may easily be accounted for from 
great weakness, and I have frequently known young 
people get the better of similar disorders. I shall be 
much obliged to my dear friend, if you will desire 
Mrs. Astley to write me one line, to let me know how 
she goes on, being anxiously concerned for the King and 
Queen ! I do not wonder to hear you are a great com- 
fort to them, and I cannot wish you shou'd deprive them 
of your company. I am very glad to hear Miss Port's 
cough is better, and hope this mild weather will quick 
cure it. 

1 Lady Louisa Stuart, who died, uumarried, in her house, 108, Gloucester 
Place, 1851. 

z 2 



332 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs. Boscawen came in while I was writing, and I 
have the pleasure to tell you she is perfectly well, 
desires her love, and will write to you soon. She had just 
seen Mrs. Chapone in good health. 

Louisa's best wishes attend you, with those of (my 
dear friend) 

Your ever affectionate, 

M. W. Bute. 
Our best comp 1 to Miss Port. 



The Countess of Stamford to Mrs. Delany. 

Envil, Jan. y e 10th, 1786. 

My dearest Friend, 

I confess I stand reproved, and I read your kind 
letter, which I received yesterday, with gratitude and 
shame. You are very good to me, and, therefore, I shall 
rely on your mercy to pardon my long silence, and to hear 
with patience what I have to plead in excuse for it. 
Since the fourteenth of December, I have been surrounded 
with all my dear children, and as many other guests as our 
house would hold. My time has been so fully employ 'd 
that I realy have had few moments in a day at my own 
disposal ; and yet I can with truth assure you that I am 
angry with myself, for even appearing to have been 
negligent towards my dearest Mrs. Delany, for whom 
I ever must feel a most sincere affection. If I had not 
had frequent opportunities of hearing of you, I could not 
have remained without making my inquiries after you. 
It makes me truly happy to hear that you are tolerably 
well, that your health has not suffer'd materially from 
the anxiety of mind which you have undergone on 
account of the dangerous situation of the Pss Elizabeth, 



OF MRS, DEL4NY, 333 

and the sliare you have taken in the grief and anxiety 
of their Majesties. 1 most sincerely rejoice in the pros- 
pect of the Pss Elizabeth's recovery, unci I trust in God, 
that their Majesties will not have any farther cause for 
alarm upon her account, The newspapers mention that 
Prince Augustus 1 Is dangerously ill, but I natter myself, 
there is no foundation for such a report. I bless God, 
all those most near and dear to me are as well as I 
can wish them ; and we have the greatest reason to 
oiler up our daily thanks and praises to the Almighty 
for the great blessings we enjoy in all our dear chil- 
dren, who are all at present, everything that we can 
wish them. My dearest Harriet and her amiable hus- 
| band are now with us ; and we have the comfort to see 
them both perfectly happy. She begs me to assure you 
of her most affectionate love. My Lord and Lord Grey 
desire me to offer their very kind comp* s to you. My dear 
girls unite in best love to you and Miss Port, who we 
hope is as well in every respect as you can wish. We 
do not yet talk of moving from hence. I sincerely hope 
when you do that you will have a good journey. That 
every good may ever attend on my dearest Mrs. Delany, 
and all those whom she loves, not only at the present 
season but every other, is the warmest wish of her friends 
at Envil, but more particularly of her, who is happy to 
subscribe herself, her 

Ever affectionate and sincere friend, 

H. C. Stamford. 



1 Prince Augustas Frederic, bom 27th Jan., 1773; created, 7th Nov., 
. Duke of Sussex. 



334 LIFE AND COKKESPONDENCE 

The Hon. Mrs. Boscaiven to Mrs. Delany, T 

Audley Street, 13th Jan., 1786. 

Lady Bute lias been so good to impart a secret to me, 
which I have and will keep inviolably, and mnch comfort 
it ministers nnto me. 

I have not wrote to you lately, my dearest madam, 
not that I examined whether I had wrote last, but indeed 
because I had no pleasant subject to write upon. Fears 
for the lovely princess, which I trust in God are now 
groundless ; — concern for poor Lady Brudenell, 1 whom 
you and many sincerely lament; — the sad tragedy of the 
Halsewell Indiaman, 2 w cU even strangers can hardly read 
with dry eyes : all these are sad subjects for a letter, 
and I think I had nothing pleasant to balance them with. 
Lord Dacre 3 is dead this morning. He spent yesterday 
evening more cheerfully than usual, but was seized in 
the night and soon dy'd. I have long been acquainted 
with his very excellent lady, to whom I am sure he ow'd 
(in his melancholy state) every outward comfort he en- 
joyed. I hope therefore he has given her every testimony 
of his affection and gratitude. 

My dear madam, I went yesterday to Ken Wood to 
visit Miss Murrays, and found them well (Miss Mary 

1 Anne, eldest daughter of George, Viscount Lewisham, and first wife of 
James, Baron Brudenell, afterwards 5th Earl of Cardigan. She died 
Jan. 12, 1786, leaving no children. 

2 The "Halsewell" East Indiaman was wrecked on the 6th of Jan., 1786, 
at Seacombe, in the Isle of Purbeck ; 74 seamen and soldiers escaped out 
of 240, the number of the crew and passengers. 

3 Thomas Barrett Lennard, 17th Lord Dacre, died Jan. 12th, 1786. His 
widow, Anna Maria, daughter of Sir John Pratt, the Lord Chief Justice, 
was inconsolable for his loss, and from the day of his interment never 
failed to pay a daily visit to his grave until her own death in 1808. 



OF Mils. DELANY. Mo 

had been otherwise, but is pretty well recovered). Lady 
Charlotte Wentworth was with them; Lord Mansfield 
was gone to London, where every morning he makes 
visits to his friends, and returns to dine with these ami- 
able ladies. Lady Charlotte told me that Lady Fitz- 
william had bore her journey to London well. You know 
her ladyship promises an heir to the Wentworth family 
after 16 years marriage. 1 

I have been interrupted by agreeable visitors this 
morning — Mrs. Carter (with her long stick), Mrs. Ire- 
monger — who inquired much after dear Mrs. Delany — 
and now Mrs. Leveson, who is very much her humble 
servant, as is (with a thousand good wishes) her truly 
affectionate friend, 

F. Boscawe^. 

My kind compliments to " the walking lady." Here 
is fine weather for her, after very bad. Mrs. Walsing- 
ham is come to town in good health. Her son is in a 
fair way of recovery. 



The Viscountess Weymouth to Mrs. Delany. 

Longleat, Jan. 14th, 1786. 

Dear Mrs. Delany, 

I am most exceedingly obliged to you for sending 
me an account of Pss Elizabeth's great amendment. I 
hope H. R. II. will not have any returns, and that their 
Majesties will not suffer from their great anxiety. I am 



1 Charlotte, second daughter of William, 2nd Earl of Bessborough, 
married William, 4th Earl Fitzwilliam, July 11th, 1770. Their only child, 
Charles William Wentworth, the 0th Earl, was born May 4th, 1786. 



336 LIFE AND COKRESPONDENCE 

very glad Prince Augustus is so well recovered, and the 
younger Princess's, and natter myself I shall have the 
comfort of finding all the Eoyal family well the week 
after this. L d W. is airways so unwilling to leave this 
place, and as the birthday was postpon'd, I imagin'd the 
Queen wou'd not be in town till the Parliament, and 
have wrote to my friend L y Egremont 1 to procure me a 
change with some one of the ladies in London, if the 
Queen has a drawing-room on Thursday. 

I hope I shall see you, my dear friend, tolerably well. 
The weather is very uncomfortable; the ground is all 
cover d w th snow ; but that is not any inconvenience to 
you, as you have so many warm cloaks, &c, to preserve 
you when you do go out, which I suppose is only to the 
Queen's Lodge. I hope we shall not have a deep snow 
to shut up the road ; the gentlemen greatly lament the 
present. 

I hope Miss Port has quite lost her cough. Best love 
attend you from all y r friends. Believe me 

Ever y r affec te , 

E. C. Weymouth. 



Extract from a Letter of Miss Port's to her Mother, dated St. Alban's Street 
(Windsor), 19th Jan., 1786. 

The two Princesses and the Queen came here on Tues- 
day, and Princess Augusta said she " wanted to see you." 
Princess Elizabeth and Prince Augustus are much better. 
Poor Princess Elizabeth has suffered extreamly, and does 



1 Alicia Maria, daughter of George, 2nd Lord Carpenter, and widow of 
Charles, 1st Earl of Egremont. 






OF MRS. DELANY. 337 

now, tho' not in bo great a degree as Bhe did. We don't 
go so soon as 1 thought we should to town, as Her Ma- 
jesty is anxious to keep my aunt Delanj as long as she 
and the Bong stay here. 

Mr. John Sandt'ord is so altered that I should hardly 
have known him. He is much grown, and we quarrel 
about which is the tallest ; we are so near of a height. 
I am very sorry to make you pay for this letter, but Sir 
George Howard 1 and Colonel Goldsworthy (my two 
s) arc in London. The little Princess's hooping 
cough continues bad. I think I remember hearing you 
say " / never had it, nor has A.D." The poor little 
Princess takes emeticlcs every other day, (as Sir George 
Baker thinks it's the best thing they can take,) and they 
have their back bones rubbed with musk. We have not 
seen them this month for fear of catching the disorder. 
We have been reading Gilpin's Lives of the Eeformers, 2 
which are very entertaining; the Queen lent us the 
book. I am working myself an apron, and a long piece 
of work it is, bat I have resolved to finish it before I 
leave Windsor, and have worked above half of it. 

Poor Lady Willoughby is in great distress, as Lady 
Brudenel 3 has an inflamation on her lungs,) and they 
despair of her recovering. She has been ill some time. 

1 Sir George Howard, K.B., Field Marshal and Governor of Chelsea 
Hospital. He married, first, Lady Lucy Wentworth, sister and coheiress 
of William, Earl of Strafford ; and secondly, EHzabeth, daughter of Peter 
Beckford, Esq., and widow of Thomas, 2nd Earl of Effingham. 

* Life of John WicklifF and of the most eminent of his disciples, Lord 
Cobham, John Huss, Jerome of Prague, and Zisca, with other Reformers, 
by William Gilpin, M.A. 

' Anne, eldest daughter of George, Viscount Lewiflham, and wife of 
James, Baron Brudenell, died 12th Jan., 1786. 



338 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The Earl of Guilford to Mrs. Delany. 

London, Jan. 19th, 1786. 

Madam, 

Tho' I hope to have the pleasure of seeing you 
very soon, I cannot delay returning my best thanks for 
your kind enquiry after a truly afflicted family, who 
(tho' very sensible of the resignation with which it is 
their duty to submit to the decrees of a wise and merciful 
providence) cannot help feeling acutely, when a link 
fails in that chain of comfortable friendship which has 
held us together for a long course of years, and as you 
know the value of our loss, you will not blame us. I 
hope we bear our misfortunes as we ought, and am 
sure I shall convey comfort, when I communicate your 
very kind enquiry and concern for us, and as we have 
been so long acquainted, I flatter myself you will have 
no doubt of our most sincere esteem and regard for you. 
Lord Dartmouth, Lady Willoughby, and Mrs. Keene, 
have colds added to their low spirits, but they are 
mending. Poor Lord Brudenell is as well in health as 
one could expect him to be ; but his nerves and spirits 
are very much agitated. Lord Ailesbury, Mr. Bowlby, 
and Lady Mary Bowlby, 1 have shown the most affec- 
tionate care and attention to him, and all our part of the 
family give our assistance towards administering comfort 
as far as we are able. I have had so much experience of 
their Majesties good hearts, that I am persuaded they 
feel for us, and I have been in a course of taking a very 
sincere share in the joys and sorrows of the Eoyal 



1 Lady Mary Boulby, sister of the 1st Duke of Montagu of the second 
creation, and wife of Thomas Boulby, Esq. 



OF MBS. DELANY. 330 

family, for two generations. I therefore, most sincerely 
rejoice to hear your good account of the Princess Eliza- 
beth, and that Prince Augustus is better. I am very 
sorry to hear you have not been well, but hope you will 
be perfectly recover'd before you set out. I make no 
doubt but your house in town will be well air'd ; but 
you must wrap yourself very warm for your journey. I 
who only go out in a morning when the sun shines, in a 
rugg great coat, and boot-stockings, and with a thick 
rugg at the bottom of my coach, feel the cold very 
piercing. Adieu, my dear madam ! forgive my having 
taken up so much of your time, and believe me with 
great esteem and gratitude, 

Your most obedient and obliged 

Humble servant, 

Guilford. 

I beg Miss Port to accept my best compliments. Our 
poor friend Fred. Montague, is staying as long as he can 
to comfort the poor family at Melton ;* but I believe 
lie will be in town in about a fortnight. Lord North 
and the Bishop of Winchester, and their families, who 
share deeply in our affliction, are still in the country, 



The JRev. W. Gilpin to Mrs. Delany. 

Vicars Hill, Jean. 25th, 1786. 

Dear Madam, 

I am writing to Mrs. Levcson, and as I have 
heard nothing from you, since the severity of the winter, 



1 Elizabeth, daughter of Dr. Fountayne by his third wife, Anne Montague, 
and wife of Richard Wilson, son of Dr. Wilson, Bishop of Bristol, died 10th 
Jan., 1786. 



340 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

I have asked that lady, when she calls upon you, to make 
inquiry in my name. I beg you will not trouble your- 
self with writing ; as I know it is so inconvenient to 
you. Mrs. Leveson will be so good as give me the 
intelligence I desire. 

I yet see no prospect of my book, about which, madam > 
you are so kindly interested. Naturalists tell us, that 
the noblest animals are the longest in gestation. If the 
analogy hold in books, I think I am highly politic in 
endeavouring to keep up the attention of the public so 
long. At the same time, you know, madam, there is an 
ugly fable against me, about a mountain and a mouse. 
The late frosts, I am told, are what have chiefly retarded 
our affairs ; as that weather is bad for copper-plate 
printing. Believe me, dear madam, with truest respect, 
and esteem 

Your obliged, and 

Most obedient Serv* 

Will. Gilpin. 



MRS. DELANY'S DIARY— continued. 

Feb. 1786. — Finished with Mr. Webb, paid him 
£3 3s. 

Saturday morning. — Miss Planta from the Queen, to 
inform me that Princess Eliz. continued very well. We 
left Windsor at 1 1 o'clock, a fine soft day after the severe 
frost, got to London at half past 2 o'clock, not so much 
fatigued as I expected. 

Evening. — Lady Bute, Mrs. Boscawen. A brace of 
partridges from Dr. Wharton. 

Sunday morning.— Prayers at home, had a bad night. 



OF MRS. DELANY, 341 

Miss Port's cough almost well. Lord Guilford, Lord 
Dartmouth, Mr. Shields. 

Miss Port went to see Mrs. Sandford. Mr. Sandford, 
and Mr. William Sandford dined here, Mrs. Boscawen, 
Miss Egerton, and Mrs. Anne Bgerton in the evening. 

Monday morning.— An indifferent night. Altered 
my pictures. Went to .Mrs. Sandford' s— Lady Juliana 
Penn, .Miss Burney. 

Evening.— Mr, Young called ; begun Don Quixote. 

Tuesday morning.— Settled the Queen's work with 
Miss Lane, to be done for 3 guineas a chair. 1 Dr. 
Wharton, Miss Murrys, Lady Weymouth, Lord Dart- 
mouth, and Lady Charlotte called. 

Evening. — Lady Bute, Mr. Walpole. 

Wednesday morning.— Mr. Cambridge, Lady Wey- 
mouth, Bishop of Chester, Bishop of Exeter, Mrs. Carter, 
Dr. Wharton, Mr. John Sandford, Mr. Lightfoot, and 
Lady Spencer. To dinner, Mr. Lightfoot and Mr. Dewes. 

Evening.— Lady and Miss Yates, and Mrs. Wal- 
singham. 

Thursday morning. — Very much out of order; did 
not get up till ten o'clock. Called— Mrs. Eich, Miss 
Bowdler, and Lord Dartmouth. 



I from Letter of Court Dewes, Esq., to Mrs. Granville, dated from 
Mrs. Dekmy'a, St. James's Place, Feb. 18*7/, 1786. 

London is very barren of news at present. Y e Prince 
of Wales's match engrosses most of y e conversations ; it is 
generally believed some ceremony has passed between 

1 Mrs. Delany made the designs for a whole sot of furniture for the Queen, 
at Windsor, of leaves in various shades of brown, cut out in satin, and shaded 
with embroidery on a dark-blue ground. 



342 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

y m to satisfie y e lady's scruples, but a marriage it cant be 
as there is an Act of Parliament in y e way. 

Mrs. Delany has been very indifferent lately. 

Mr. W. Mills's match to Miss Eliza DigbyMs now old 
news to you. 

And now for a story, w ch you may depend upon, for 
besides y e gen tn I had it from, Miss Burney heard it f m 
Lady Eothes 2 (Sir Lucas Pepys's wife). Mr. and Mrs. 
Lawrell spent part of last autumn at Brighton ; y e 
Prince of Wales was much in their company, doubtless 
on account of Mr. Lawrell's agreeable conversation ; it 
happened, however, one afternoon y* Mrs. L. alone was 
of a party w th y e P. of W. L y Beauchamp 3 , and some 
other fine people. Mrs. L: like a good wife, about 
9 o'clock, said she must go home to her husband. The 
Prince said he and y e party w d come and sup w th y m ; y e 
lady received y e gracious intimation w th ail y c respect y* 
became her, and hasten'd home to acquaint her husband, 
and make preparation. Whether Mr. L. was more or 
less sensible of y e honour, y* was designed him than his 
wife I don't know ; but he s d he sh d not come if he c d 
help it, and if he did come, he sh d have nothing to 
eat ; it was in vain Mrs. L. remonstrated, he continued 
inflexible, and she had nothing for it, but to put him to 



1 W. Mills, Esq., married, 6th April, 1786, Elizabeth, daughter of the 
Hon. Wriothesley Digby." 

2 Lady Jane Elizabeth Leslie succeeded, on the death of her brother, 
John, 9th Earl, as Countess of Rothes. Her first husband was George 
Raymond Evelyn, Esq., brother of the Hon. Mrs. Boscawen. The Countess 
of Eothes m., 2nd, in 1772, Sir Lucas Pepys, Bart. 

3 "Lady Beauchanrp." — Isabella Anne Ingram Shepherd, eldest daughter 
and coheiress of Charles Ingram, 9th Viscount Irvine, and second wife of 
Francis, Lord Beauchamp. afterwards 2nd Marquis of Hertford. 






OF MRS. DELAKY. 343 

bed, and write a note to L d Beauchamp, informing her 
f Mr. L. was taken suddenly ill, and begging she w (I 
entertain y* P. i u her stead. Between one and two 
O'clock in y° morning w n y c company were pretty merry, 
j y e Prince, whether he guessed at y e reason or was con- 
cerned for y° indisposition of his friend, said it was a 
pity poor La well should die for want of help, and they 
immediately set about writing notes to all y e physicians, 
surgeons, and apoths they c (1 think of in y c place, inform- 
ing f* as from Mr. L. that he was taken suddenly ill, 
and begged their immediate assistance ; these notes very 
soon set y e medical body in motion towards Mr. L's 
doors ; a few of the most alert apoths came first, but they 
were got rid of by y e serv t9 , who assured y m it was a 
mistake, y* their master and mistress were well and 
alseep, and f they did not care to wake y m . Soon after 
came Sir Lucas Pepys, who declaring y fc "nobody w d pre- 
sume to impose upon a person of his character" insisted on 
seeing Mr. L. and was pressing by y e maid towards his 
bed-chamber ; she was then forced to waken her mistress, 
and Mr. : L. being very drowsy and disinclined to rise, his 
lady, was obliged to appear in great dishabille, and w th y e 
utmost difficulty persuaded Sir Lucas he was imposed 
upon, and prevailed w th him to retire. During their dispute 
the staircase was filled w th y e rest of y e faculty arriving 
in shoals ! 



From the following letter, in the handwriting of Queen Char- 
on ■„ to Lady Weymouth, it appears that some individual of Mrs. 
)elany's household at Windsor was very ill, and that Lady 
^eymouth 1. | to the Queen that it would be bene- 

:cial to Mrs. Delany if she removed to another house; upon 



344 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

which, with the unvarying kindness which characterized every 
action of the King and Queen towards her, another house was 
instantly placed at her disposition. 

From Queen Charlotte to Lady Weymouth. 

My dear Lady Weymouth, 

I am very much obliged to you for putting it in 
my power to give any relief to dear Mrs. Delany in her 
present distress. Mrs. Hudworth's house is ready to re- 
ceive her to-morrow, or any other day she pleases, and I 
shall immediately send for her own servant to go there, 
and see that everything may be placed for her con- 
venience. 

I am glad to find that my friend S r George Baker is 
called in. His advice, I am sure, will be that of a sen- 
sible and a feeling man. 

Miss Port is happy in staying with her aunt. May 
she make use of this providential advantage to herself, 
and prove a comfort to Mrs. Delany. 

I beg my compliments to all the young ladys, and 
am, my dear Lady Weymouth, 

Your very affectionate friend, 

Charlotte. 

Windsor. 
The 4th Aprill, ] 786. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, 
Thursday afternoon, 13th April, 1786. 

My dearest Madam, 

I am just returned from Marsh Gate, and a visit 
of a few days to your favourite Miss Sayer. I was able 
to give a pretty good account of you, Lady Bute having 



OF BIBS. DELANT, 345 

been bo good to imparl to me her intelligence of your 
being refresh'd by your change of situation. Now i am 
much better pleased with the very kind letter I found 
upon my table, and I return many thanks to my dear 

friend for being so kind io remember me. Neither soli- 
tude, nor the highest company, can make you forget your 
friends, I wou'd nol allow myself to write to you for 
fear of being troublesome, knowing that Lady Bute 
would tell me whenever she heard from you. I heard 
also from Lady Andover, whom I waited upon last Sun- 
day, that you had born y c journey well. Coming out of 
Richmond church to-day I met y r friend and cousine 
Lady Tweedale. I was surpris'd at her being so little 
alter'd, as it is so long ago since I saw her, and that she 
lias endured so many afflictions and losses since that time. 
She knew me, too, and we had a conference in the church- 
yard. I have not as yet seen either of my good daughters 
since I returnd to town (indeed I know Mrs. Leveson 
pas at the Drawing-room, where, however, the Duchess 
of Beaufort cannot go for want of being able to stand.) 
I have therefore no history to tell you but my own. 
You know that Lord Thanet l is dead abroad. I un- 
tand he has appointed Mr. Leveson a trustee and 
guardian to his children, and as there are seven, and that 
the other trustee, the Duke of Dorset, 2 is necessarily 
t, it will be a weighty charge, I think. 
lieu, my dear friend. Pray give my kind love to 
Miss Port. I ain glad she resumes her title of "the 
walking lady," for I promise myself the good air or 

Karl of Thanet, died April 10th, 1780. 
rederick, son of Lord John Philip Sackvillc, succeeded as 3rd 
rset on the death of his uncle Charles, 2nd Duke, in Jan., 1700. 
PART II. — VOL. III. 2 A 



346 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Windsor will restore her health, w cb I heartily wish, as I 
do to you, my ever dear friend, everything that is good 
and desirable, and remain most truly and 

Most affectionately yours, 

F. B. 



TJie Eev. W. Gilpin to Mrs. Delany. 

Cheam, April 24th, 1786. 

Dear Madam, 

The very great delay of the artists engaged in 
ornamenting my book hath induced me to make a jour- 
ney to town — I hope in some degree, at least, will answer 
my intention. I think I have put them into a little 
quicker motion, and by the end of May I hope they will 
produce me I for the meantime I cannot think of return- 
ing into Hampshire without seeing you. As I am dis- 
appointed of that pleasure in London, shall I trespass 
upon you if I take Windsor in my way home, and spend 
half an hour with you about Thursday or Friday 
se'nnight ? I know you are plagued with company, and 
the time I mention may be very inconvenient. A line 
dictated to me at Mr. Blamires in the Strand will find 
me, wherever I happen to be. . If a half hours call would 
not be inconvenient, may I ask the farther favour, that 
you wou'd be so good as have one of your delightful 
volumes of plants on a table, that Mrs. Gilpin (who 
travels with me) may have it to say she "Jias looked into 
them." The only amusement in which she indulges her- 
self is plants, of which she is enthusiastically fond. 

Believe me, dear madam, with the greatest esteem and 
respect, 

Your very sincere, and most obed fc humble ser*, 

Will. Gilpin. 



of MRS. DELANY. 347 

. Mn. Boseowen to Mrs. Ddany. 

Audley Street, 26th April, 1786. 

Tho* I love at all times to converse with my dear 
friend, yel it is particularly pleasant when I have a plea- 
sant subject. I know you will agree with me that the 
birth of a Lord Guernsey is so, as J shall with you, to be 
glad of everything thai gives pleasure to Lady Wey- 
mouth. 1 I hear mother and child are as well as she can 
wish. 

Yesterday evening I pass'd chiefly with Lord Mans* 
field ; sat on the sopha by him, and had much discourse. 
I lik'd his looks and his spirits, but he complain'd of 
pain in his arm and hand, and was to have gone to 
Ken Wood to-day for change of air, by order of Dr. 
Turton, but the unremitting rain which now happily 
falls, giving us peas and beans, corn and grass, and all 
manner of good things, may not so exactly suit his lord- 
ship's purpose, and he may postpone his removal for a 
day or two, for I believe the Term does not begin yet. 
II is excellent ladies were well, and Miss May had re- 
cover'd her voice, which last week was in a degree lost. 
They do not purpose to stay in the country above 4 or 5 
days. 

Yesterday morning Mr. Sandford (the seaman) made 
me a visit, and received my congratulations on his good 
luck, for he has got an excellent birth (difficult as it is 
at this time), with an excellent captain, and the favourite 



I 



1 ITenea?e Finch, 4th Earl of Aylesford, married Louisa, daughter of 

is Thynne, 1st Marquis of Bath, and grand-daughter to Margaret 

dish Harley, Duchess of Portland. Lady Aylesford's eldest son had 

an infant in 17*4. Heneage, Lord Guernsey, afterwards 5th Earl oi 

horn April 24th, 1786. 

2 a 2 



348 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

voyage (viz., Newfoundland,) so that Mrs. Sandford will 
have the pleasure to see him return to her early in No- 
vember ; and accordingly she seem'd much pleas'd when 
she announced this fortunate arrangement to me in a 
short visit I made her one day last week, when I thought 
her in better health than I have seen her in for years. 

As I am a very bad newsmonger I think, I will send 
you, instead of news, an epitaph upon Dr. Johnson, 1 w ch 
my good neighbour Mr. Jenyns sent me written with his 
own hand, and therefore, I suspect, of his own com- 
posing. 

Adieu, my dear madam. Give my kind compliments 
to Miss Port. I do not call her the ivalking lady to- 
day, for I think she cannot stir from the chair, and I 
wish to profit by that sedentary posture, and beg a few 
lines of her to tell me how the dearest of aunts and best 
of friends does. A good account will be most welcome 
to her ever affectionate faithful seiV, 

F. BOSCAWEN. 

My family well, I thank God. 

" Here lies poor Johnson — Reader, have a care, 
Tread lightly, lesfc you rouse a sleeping bear ! 
Religious, moral, gen'rous and humane 
He ivas — but self-sufficient, rude and vain ; 
Ill-bred and overbearing in dispute, 
A scholar and a Christian, yet a brute. 
Would you know all his wisdom and his folly, 
His actions, sayings, mirth and melancholy, 
Boswell and TJirale, retailers of his wit, 
Will tell you how he wrote and taWol, and cough'd and spit !" 

Mrs. Delany never associated with Mrs. Thrale or Dr. Johnson, 
having a disinclination to make the acquaintance of the one and 
a horror of the occasional bursts of rudeness of the other ; though 
as a moralist she honoured Dr. Johnson. 



1 Dr. Johnson died Dec 1 ". 13, 1784. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 349 

The Her. )!'. Gilpin to Mr*. Delany. 

Vicars Bill, May 8th, 1786. 

Indeed, Jour madam, you were very kind to us on 
Thursday. Nothing allayed my pleasure but the distress 
of my wife, who, in the perplexity of a thousand niceties 
and delicacies (with which she is more troubled than 
any person 1 knew), was under continual apprehension 
of trespassing upon you ; and the more she is pleased the 
more she is irritated with these delicate Peelings, which 
you, who must have seen many oi' the amiable weaknesses 
of a delicate mind, can easily, I doubt not, account for. 
I mention these things, however, only in apology, lest 
you should think she was not so delighted as she really 
was. Indeed, dear madam, you made us both very happy. 
You not only gave us present pleasure, but you furnished 
us with an agreeable topic of conversation during the 
afternoon, and strewed (flowers in our way over the barren 
scenes of Bagshot Heath. Among other remarks I 
could not forbear making one, at the expense of an exhi- 
bition I had just seen — that of Sir A. Lever. He has 
avoured to array his birds to the best advantage by 
placing them in white boxes round his rooms, and when 
you enter you are presented with a succession of rooms, 
still multiplied by a mirror at the end, everywhere in- 
vested with these little white apartments. I know not 
how this general appearance affected your eye, but mine 
it greatly disgusted. Nothing can be meaner and poorer 
than the general effect, and more opposite to what (we 
painters) call "rich." lie would say, I doubt not, that 
he spread a white ground behind his birds to show their 
colours more advantageously, but in that I think he is 



350 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

deceived. His rooms are so light that his birds would 
detach themselves from any ground • and what a gorgeous 
display of birds would some of those little splendid 
touches of Nature's pencil exhibit if they were set off by 
some deep shadow behind ? Not that I should array a 
room full of birds (as you do the flowers) in black, tho' I 
am now fully convinced that black is. the best ground 
you could have chosen ; and as your flowers are exhibited 
one after another, the ground on which you place them 
cannot injure the eye ; yet I doubt whether it would 
not appear too dismal if they were spread like Lever's 
boxes over the whole superficies of a room — The substance 
of what I have been observing is just this — In such an 
exhibition as Lever's I think regard should be had to the 
general effect, as well as to the advantageous position of 
the parts. The former he has certainly neglected, and I 
doubt much whether he has attained the latter. Some 
years ago I saw his collection in Lancashire, before he 
made a public exhibition of it. It contained little variety 
then compared with its present state, but as I remember, 
it was arranged in a much more beautiful manner. The 
conclusion, madam, from the whole is, that you have 
arranged your flowers with infinitely more taste than he 
has arranged his birds ; and for the truth of this conclusion 
I hope you will forgive the tediousness of the premises. 
With Mrs. Gilpin's very respectful compliments, believe 
me to be, dear madam, 

Your much obliged, 

And most obedient servant, 

Will. Gilpin. 
Our compliments to Miss Port. 



UBS. DELANY. 351 

Tic Hon. Mrs. Jivscairen to Mrs. Ddany. 

19th May, 1876. 

I return you many thanks, my dear friend, for Mrs. 
Astley'a most acceptable visit, and I shou'd have en- 
deavonr'd fco have obtain'd a second conference with lier, 
but that J have been at Glan Villa since I saw her, 
where 1 have much business with certain workmen who 
require a good deal of inspection. It was pleasant while 
I was there, but I heard no nightingales, only the cuckow. 
When I hear that my dear friend has thoughts of coming 
up to the musick at the Abby, I must flatter myself that 
she feels herself able, both in health and spirits, for such 
an undertaking ; and this idea gives me very sincere 
pleasure beside. I saw a letter from Mr. Gilpin to Mrs. 
Leveson, boasting of a most pleasant two hours he had 
had the satisfaction to spend with you, and of your good 
looks, good spirits, and good health. This I reported to 
your Lady dive, 1 knowing it wou'd give her pleasure, for 
which purpose I took the liberty to accost her Ladyship 
at Lady Bat hurst's 2 one night this week. 

I have been lately at Mrs. Vesey's, where I received 

much satisfaction, for I met Mr. Walpole, who told me 

Lady Fitzwilliam 3 was much better, whereas I had just 

d that she was dead ! She has since appear 'd to be 



1 Margaret, daughter of Edmund Maskelyne, of Purton, Esq., Wiltshire, 
ind widow of Robert, 1st Lord Clive. 

3 Tryphena, daughter of Thomas Scawen, Esq., became, in June, 1759, 
he second wife of Henry, 2nd Earl Bathurst. 

3 Lady Charlotte Ponsonby, youngest daughter of William, 2nd Earl of 
rough, married, July 11th, 1.770, William Wcntworth, 4th Earl 
'itzwilliam. Their only child, Charles William, afterwards 5th Earl, was 
>orn May 4th, 1786. The Countess lived until 1822. 



352 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

greatly amended, and has given everybody sanguine 
hopes, especially yesterday evening, but Miss May Murray 
tells me she has had a very bad night, and seems now 
once more to despair. Everybody is exceedingly inte- 
rested in this ladies recovery, whose husband and father 
are so wrap'd up, as it were, in her life ; but, alas, I fear 
they must endure the great affliction of losing her. 

Lord Mansfield is at Ken Wood, and Miss Murray with 
him ; he goes every evening to sleep there, and comes 
back generally in the daytime, but is not return' d to-day, 
I believe, and is far less well than you and I wish him, 
but I do not find any other complaint than want of sleep 
— at least that is the chief. 

I call'd upon my honour'd and beloved neighbour, 
Lady Bute, this morning, but had not the good luck to 
find her. 

Lord Cork, you hear, is going to be marry'd to Miss 

Monckton, 1 and soon. The writings are drawing, and 

she is to have £2000 jointure. 

P.B. 

The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, 23rd May, 1786. 

My dearest Madam, 

I long to know your opinion of Dr. Burney's 
success, which I am sure has your good wishes, for the 
love you bear to his amiable daughter. I heard they 
were both at Windsor last Sunday, and I have great 
hopes that His Majesty will think him worthy to 
succeed the late Mr. Stanley. I wish I could meet Miss 



1 Edmund, 7th Earl of Cork, married his second wife, Mary Monckton, 
youngest daughter of John, 1st Viscount Galway, June 17th, 1786. 



OF MBS. OKI. ANY. 353 

Barney to-day, for I hear she is return'd, and I Long to 
know whether she is entirely satisfy'd with the degree of 

health and spirits she found yon in. I hope you enjoy 
this Lovely weather daily in "thy forests Windsor, and 
thy green retreats;" and wish I cou'd have the happi- 
ness to partake one of your airings ; but of that I must 
not indulge a hope at present. The Duchess of Beau- 
fort now approaches so near the painfull hour, 1 that as 
the Duke has put oil' his excursion into the country, so I 
never undertake one that is to last more than four or five 
hours. Yesterday I was sent for to my poor villa, 
where a horrid breach had been made ; the shutters of 
my pleasant bow-window torn from their hinge, a bureau 
in the little book-room broken open, and all the papers 
it contained thrown about. There I found heaps, one 
entitled From the Camp at Boston, another, After the 
] 'attle of Bunker's Hill, in short, a great number of such 
obsolete collections, which it is no wonder the wretches 
hit behind ; nor did they take anything that T can per- 
ceive. I had a dairymaid in the house, also a man 
servant — her father. Both were found fast asleep in 
their separate dormitorys, when a neighbour, whose 
house was also broke open, came in pursuit of his 
enemies. As it was not quite four in the morning he 
was at a loss to know which way to direct his pursuit, 
till the rooks in my garden (behind your favourite bower) 
were so noisy, cawing and flying about in the greatest 
disorder, that they served for an alarm, like the geese at 
the Capitol. He took their advice, came to my garden, 
and found one of the windows open. He awoke my 



1 The Duck' ass of Beaufort was confined of a daughter, 30th May, 178G. 



354 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

next neighbour ; they came in and found the bureau in 
the disorder that I tell you, but nobody in the house 
except the sleeping guardians thereof. I have lost 
nothing ; indeed there was nothing to take but books 
and cushions in the only room they appear to have 
inspected ; but it seems they went afterwards to a clock- 
maker at Whetstone,, broke open his shop, and took his 
till with shillings and halfpence in abundance. 

My dear madam, I am interrupted, and I end abruptly, 
but very affectionately yours, 

F. Boscawen. 



Tlie TJon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, 27th May, 178G. 

After I had written to you the other day, dear madam, 
I received the favour of your kind letter, for which I am 
impatient to thank you, tho' 'tis hardly allowable, per- 
haps, to trouble you again so soon ; at least I think Miss 
Port may be tempted to say, " Here is another letter from 
Mrs. Boscawen." Pray tell her I thought of her at Miss 
Boyle's annual ball on the 24 th . I will not say that I 
wished her there, because I think she is so much more 
pleasantly situated where she is. My granddaughter 
(for whose sake I had the favour of an invitation) cou'd 
not go on account of a bloodshot eye that came only that 
morning. It was unluckily tim'd. My chief satisfac- 
tion there was conversing with dear Lady Stamford, who 
was so good to fetch me to sit by her. 

29th. 

I had written so far on Saturday when my son 
call'd me to go to the rehearsal at Westminster Abbey, 
where I was well entertain'd till past 4, but much spent 



OF Mils. DELANY. '<u>o 

(as it were), so one always feels after being affected with 
siu'li fine musick. 

This evening I saw Mrs. Chapone at Mr. Pepys'; 
she inqmr'd much after yon, and I was happy to be 

able to give her a wry i^ood account of y r health, 
having receiv'd o\w from undoubted authority, viz., your 
friend (alias son) Mr. Montague ; not that I had had the 
pleasure to sec him, but Lady Stamford, who was so 
kind as to honour me with a farewell visit, gave me this 
pleasant intelligence. ]\liss Burney I saw also this even- 
ing. She promises herself the pleasure to wait on you 
soon. I shall envy her. I am sure you regret with me 
that Lord Salisbury had a favourite amongst the musical 
; people, so as not to prefer the most worthy, and Dr. 
Barney is thus esteemed by so many people that I do 
not wonder they have given him the name of " the hare 
with many friends." 

Glan Villa, Monday morning. 

It is so very hot that I hope you sit quite still in 
your cool room. I have walk'd till I am as red facd 
as a personage I was in company with last night, who 
was no other than Madam D'Eon, or Monsieur 1 (which- 
i rer you please), for certainly there is more of a grenadier 

1 Charles Genevieve Louise Auguste D'Eon de Beaumont, Chevalier 
D'Eon, was born at Tonnerre, in France, in the year 1728. This person 
Equerry to Louis XV., and filled several military and diplomatic 
posts with remarkable ability. He was Secretary of Legation, in London, 
to the French Ambassador, the Duke of Nivernois, and subsequently was 
Minister Plenipotentiary. Leing dismissed from his employment, he 
resided in London as a private gentleman for fourteen years. Wagers 
having been laid that the Chevalier was a woman, a cause relating to some 
of those wagers was tried, in 1777, before Lord Mansfield, after which the 
Chevalier D'Eon occasionally wore female attire. 



356 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

than a lady in her appearance. She was very easy in her 
conversation, and I was much entertain'd. I saw her at 
Mrs. Swinburne's, where there were several foreigners. 
You will have heard news very painfull to your cousin 
Lady Dowager Spencer, and which one cannot but regret. 
The parents of the young lady are much more pity'd 
than her husband, as you will easily account for. 

Lord Cowper, you hear, is at last arrived, and a very 
great stranger, no doubt, in his native land and to it. 1 

Past five. — I am returned to London ; a hot ride, but 
have found Miss More come in to dinner. She desires 
her best respects. 

F. Boscawen. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Dickenson. 

Windsor, May 29th, 1786. 

How much am I obliged to my dear and kind friends, 
for their mutual letter and flattering proposal of making 
me a visit at Windsor any time before the 1 Cth \ but 
what is my mortificaticn, that I cannot avail myself of 
it. I am obliged to go to town for some days, the time 
not yet fix'd, and the remaining part of June is already 
engaged to my dear and worthy friends Lady Bute, Mrs. 
Sandford, and Mrs. Boscawen, in succession, (if my 
health and spirits will allow of my enjoying so much 
comfort.) I have but one spare room for a friend, and 
indeed if I had more, I am at present in too low a state 
to admit of more than that will contain : but what is 



1 George Nassau, 3rd Earl Cowper. He had resided for many years at 
Florence, where he married, in 1775, Anne, youngest daughter and coheiress 
of Charles Gore, Esq., and where all his children were born. 






OF MRS. DELANY. 357 



defer d I trust will qo1 be entirely lost, but that some 
lucky opportunity may make amends for this unavoid- 
able delay. Mr. Dewes, who is with me at present, 
(with Mi>s Port,) desires his besl comp* 8 . He leaves me 
to-morrow, and looks forward with pleasure to the 16th 
bf June, after which day he hopes to have the honour 
and pleasure oi' seeing you and Mr. Dickenson at Wels- 
bourne ; any time after that day it will he convenient to 
him. Be so good as to make my comp* 8 and best thanks to 
Lady Wake, 1 for her kind attention to me, and I sincerely 
pity her for the loss she will soon have of your company. 
Every wish for yours and Mr. Dickenson's health and 
happiness sincerely attend you, my dear friend. From 
Your most affectionate and obliged, 

M. Delany. 



From Dr. Portcus, Bishop of Chester, to Mrs. Delany. 

London, June 1786. 

Madam, 

Agreeably to my promise, I have sent by one 
of the coaches a copy of Dr. Butler's little book, and as it 
is particularly intended for young persons may I beg the 
favour of you to present it in my name to Miss Port j 
she has, I hope perfectly recovered herself from the con- 
sequences of her late indisposition. 

If you have not yet performed the pilgrimage you 
talked of to Mr. Gray's tomb, the effect it had on me, 
will not I fear much encourage you to undertake it. 
But so it was : the solemn scenery of the place, combined 



1 Mary, only daughter and heiress of Richard Fenton, Esq., and wife of 
\ Uiam Wake, Bart. 



358 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

with the recollection of its having given birth to the 
Churchyard Elegy, and above all the circumstance of 
the author being buried among the rustics, whose 
" simple annals " he had celebrated, without any the 
least notice taken of him, not even " His name, his 
years spelt by tti unlettered muse" all these ideas struck 
my fancy so forcibly as to produce (in my way 
home) the few lines I here venture to enclose to you. 
You see by this how much I reckon on your indul- 
gence to me for such verses, (if they deserve that 
name.) They are evidently fit only for the eye of a 
friend, and a very partial one too. My poor muse has 
been asleep these thirty years, during which time I have 
been very unpoetically , though I hope not very unprofit- 
ably, employed ! And you will probably think it would 
have been full as well if the good lady had gone quietly 
sleeping on ; and to say the truth, I am myself pretty 
much of that opinion. Indeed, it is far from being clear, 
that she is yet quite awake. But her dreams, (for they are 
no better,) amused me for half an hour in my post-chaise, 
and if they help to compose you for the same time in 
your armed-chair after dinner, they will answer as valu- 
able a purpose as I have any reason to expect from them. 
We go to Hunton on Tuesday next, where we hope 
to spend three or four quiet months, and afterwards as 
many very busy ones at Chester. In every place we 
shall be happy to hear of your health, which is of so 
much importance to all your friends, and for which you 
will always have the wishes and prayers of, 
Madam, your most faithfull 
And obedient servant, 

B. Chester. 



OF MBS. DELANT. 359 



T7ic Hon. Mrs. Botcawen to Mrs. Delany. 

1780. 

You may be sure, my dear madam, that I obey'd y r 
oommands most punctually, and imparted to Lady 
Louisa Stuart the very pleasant news you communi- 
cated to me; Lady Bute and her lady p both express'd 
their satisfaction that Miss Burney liad met with the 
I fortune she seems so much to deserve ;* I transcribe 
Lady Louisa's own words, and it is with great pleasure 
I add the following also. She returns Mrs. Boscawen 
thanks for the good ace 1 she has sent her of Mrs. Delany, 
and has the pleasure to assure Mrs. B. in return, that 
Lady Bute recovers as fast as possible, goes out an 
airing, and is in every respect but strength (w h she has 
not entirely regain' d) very well. 

This good intelligence being a week old, perhaps you 
may have had later accounts of dear Lady Bute. My 
poor friends at Hadley are under the deep affliction of 
having lost their father, their guide and guardian, Mr. 
Burrows. 2 What a loss he is to the 3 families, whose 
children have all been admirably train 'd by him, Mrs. 
(liapone alone can tell you; and at the closing scene 
(for he has been given over some time), his example 
was a great lesson, and he shew'd the power of religion 
to smooth the bed of death : his sufferings were con- 
ceal'd, but his resignation was very conspicuous. His 
age only 52 or 3. 



1 The event here alluded to was the appointment of Miss Tourney to be 
one of Queen Charlotte's Dressers. 

2 The Rev, Dr. Burrows, licctor of St. Clement Danes, died at Iladlcigh, 

sex, July 1st, IT- . 






3G0 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Your friends have had accidents that a little abate the 
pleasure of their summer ; Mrs. Leveson had the morti- 
fication to see the gravel walk on her terras fall in, stones, 
and steps, and all ! It seems an area had surrounded 
the house, w ch being now cover'd when L y Grower 
made the new buildings, had been done without ex- 
amining the wall of the area, w ch yielding to the weight 
of gravel in the extreme heavy rain, fell in : upon a 
surveyor being call'd, other capital repairs are found 
necessary to be immediately attended to, so that the 
poor lady of the mansion must I fear quit it for the 
summer ; for if she stays, it will be very uncomfortable 
indeed, and like being encamp d ! I don't know what 
resolution she has taken, but workmen of all sorts were 
to begin to-day. My grievance is mixed with a blessing, 
for I never heard some vilains that got into my house 
last Friday night, and took only cloaks and hankf s out 
of the book-room, and breaking open Keeble's room 
and cupboard, found 4 tea-spoons. They did not com< 
up stairs, and no one heard them ! I had 3 men-servanU 
lay in y e house, and the coachman over the stables ! I 
have now established a watchman in my garden ! but 
it is unpleasant. Adieu, dear madam. My kind comp ts 
to Miss Port, and sincere congratulations to the happy 
Miss Burney ! -^ -^ 

King George III. and Queen Charlotte wished to make Dr. 
Burney some amends for the disappointment of Lord Salisbury's 
not having appointed him Master of the Queen's band, which 
they considered he had a claim to expect. Mr. Smelt sug- 
gested the possibility of benefiting Dr. Burney through his 
daughter. The Queen consulted Mrs. Delany, who had only 
known Miss Burney about three years, and was naturally pre- 



OV MKS. DELANY. 361 

possessed in her favour by her talents, the unvarying respect and 
attention of her manner, combined with great apparent timidity 
and humility, and the sincere gratitude she appeared to feel for her 
notice. Mrs, Delany was also interested and amused by her con- 
versational powers, hut had not seen enough of her to be aware 
hew utterly unfit she was for any place requiring punctuality, 
neatness, and manual dexterity; 1 and that she had not sufficient 
pound sense, judgment, or discrimination to preserve her own equi- 
librium, if placed in a sphere so different to that in which she had 
bet n brought up. The Queen was persuaded to appoint Miss 
Barney, Mrs. Delany and Mr. Smelt having deceived themselves 
into believing her capable of adapting herself to her place, and of 
performing her new duties satisfactorily ; their earnest desire to 
insure Miss Burney a certain salary instead of the precarious in- 
come arising from her works, having blinded their better judgment. 
Miss Burney was elated to such a degree by the appointment that 
she gradually lost all consciousness of her actual or relative position. 
She lived in an ideal world of which she was, in her own imagina- 
tion, the centre. She believed herself possessed of a spell which 
fascinated all those she approached. She became convinced that 
all the equerries w r ere in love with her, although she was con- 
tinually the object of their ridicule, as they discovered her weak- 
nesses and played upon her credulity for their own amusement. 
Many entertaining anecdotes might be collected of the ludicrous 
effect produced by Miss Burney's far-fetched expressions when 
she desired to be especially eloquent, and particularly courtly. 

On one occasion when she had been laid up by violent head- 
ache, to which she was often subject, one of the attendants told 
her that His Majesty had asked if she was better, or how she was. 
" Give my duty to His Majesty," said Miss Burney, " and tell him 
the little machine has not yet quite ceased to vibrate" Miss 
Burney's situation certainly was anomalous, for though as a 
i dresser she had a fixed (though subordinate) position, as a suc- 

I * Queen Charlotte used to complain to Mrs. Delany that Miss Burney 
could not learn to tie the bow of her necklace on Court days without giving 
her pain by getting the hair at the back of the neck tied in with it. 

PART II. — VOL. III. 2 B 



A 



362 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

cessful novel-writer she had an undefined sort of celebrity won 
by her talents ; and though as the daughter of a music-master 
she had previously no individual position whatever, there was in 
her case more personal interest manifested on account of her being 
the daughter of so excellent a man as Dr. Burney, who was much 
respected, and it required a much better understanding than she 
ever possessed to discriminate between all these various bearings. 
She had a particularly large share of vanity, a particularly lively 
imagination, and between both, she made numerous mistakes in 
the course of her various representations of her four characters, 
— of the timid nobody; the wonderful girl who had written 
1 Evelina f the Queen's dresser ; and the amiable and devoted 
daughter, " Fanny Burney." 

The Bev. W. Gilpin to Mrs. Delany. 

Vicars Hill, July 3rd, 1786. 

Dear Madam, 

Ever since my acquaintance with you (which I 
esteem among the fortunate events of my life), you 
have taught me to expect some little answer to my 
letters. I have always remonstrated ag st your giving 
y r self any trouble on that head : but, notwithstanding 
that, y r kind civility never ceased ; till by degrees 
(thank y r self, dear madam, for it), a sort of claim, like 
other saucy claims under y e name of prescription, began 
to be established. On this ground, then, madam, I beg 
you to consider what injustice you have done me, by 
keeping a letter of mine in y r hands, of w h you have 
not deigned to take y e least notice, ever since I returned 
home last from Windsor. 1 And yet, madam, I believe 
I sh d not have written on this matter, if I had not been 



1 This sentence, indeed the whole letter, is another instance of Gilpin's 
irritable and unbecoming pride — as while he declares his fear of having 
given offence he impertinently shows he is offended. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 363 

under some apprehension of having given you offence 
by my abrupt departure? While I was putting up those 
two little drawings w h I told you were ambitious of 
having a place in \ closet you shewed me, y e chaise 
not only was made ready; but, without my knowledge, 
went and brought Mrs. Gilpin from y r house to y e inn. 
As \ ! was the case I thought it wrong, for y e sake of a 
ceremonious moment, to give you any farther trouble, 
after having given you so much. All this, or some- 
thing like it, I said in a note w h I left with y e inn- 
keeper to be delivered to you, with my 2 little draw- 
ings, after I was gone. And after I got home I wrote 
you a letter containing my kindest thanks for y e civili- 
ties and the high entertainment you had shewn and given 
us. Now, my dear madam, tho' I think it is impossible 
you could have taken any offence ; yet I must beg a few 
lines from y r secretarf to assure me of it. Mrs. Gilpin 
desires her most respectful compliments, and often 
speaks of y e morning she spent with you at Windsor, 
as one of y e most agreeable of her life. I am, dear 
mad m , with y e truest respect and esteem, 

Y r most sincere and most obliged 

Humble servant, 

Will. Gilpin. 
We join in compliments to Miss Port. 



Mrs. Delany wrote to Mrs. Frances Hamilton from Windsor, 
July 3rd, 1786 :— 

" My health, in the main, holds out wonderfully in the 
midst of many trying circumstances ; but I endeavour 
to look forward with hope and comfort to that place 
where i the weary will be at rest,' and enjoy the many 

2 b 2 



364 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

undeserved blessings still held out to me, and praying 
for assistance to support me under those trials Provi- 
dence thinks fit to lay upon me. 1 

"I must wave what has passed during the greatest 
part of my silence, as my memory will not serve me to 
recollect, or my head able to dictate as circumstantially 
as formerly. During my short stay in London in the 
winter many alterations were made in my house here 
which my Royal benefactors thought would make it 
more commodious to me ; and it is now a most com- 
plete, elegant, comfortable dwelling, and I am hourly 
receiving marks of attention and kindness that cannot 
be expressed. The constant course of my life at pre- 
sent, from which I vary very little, is as follows : I 
seldom miss going to early prayers at the King's 
Chapel, at eight o'clock, where I never fail to see their 
Majesties and all the royal family. The common way 
of going up the chapel is through the great entrance 
into the Castle, which is a large room with stone pil- 
lars, at the corner of which is a narrow winding stair- 
case, which leads to the chapel ; but their Majesties, 
with their usual goodness and indulgence, have ordered 
that I should be admitted through the great staircase, 
which is a very easy ascent. When chapel is over, all 
the congregation make a line in the great portico till 
their Majesties have passed ; for they always walk to 
chapel and back again, and speak to every body of 
consequence as they pass : and it is indeed a delightful 
sight to see so much beauty, dignity, and condescension, 
united as they are in this royal family. I come home 

1 The trials alluded to were relative, as they affected some of her con- 
nections to whom she was much attached. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 3H5 

to breakfast generally about nine o'clock, and if I (and 
the weather) are well enough, I take the air for two 
hours. The rest of the morning is devoted to business, 
and the company of my particular friends ; but I admit 
no formal visitors, as I really have not time or spirits 
tor it, but every body here is very civil and very con- 
siderate. My afternoons I keep entirely to myself, that I 
may have no interruption whenever my royal neigh- 
bours condescend to visit me : their usual time of 
coming is between six and seven o'clock, and they 
generally stay till between eight and nine. They 
always drink tea here, and my niece has the honour of 
giving it about to all the royal family, as they will not 
suifer me to do it (though it is my place). The Queen 
always places me on the sofa by her, and the King, 
when he sits down (which is seldom) sits next the 
sofa. Indeed their visits are not limited to the after- 
noons, for T. M.'s often call on me in the morning, and 
take me as they find me, not suffering any body to give 
me notice of their being come. I went to town at the 
anniversary of the Abbey music : the King gave me 
tickets, and Miss Port tickets. Though I suspected my 
own ability of being able to make use of them, I could 
not deprive Miss Port of the opportunity of going, but 
she was (I may say, happily) prevented, by falling ill of 
the measles, which, I thank God, she has now passed 
through as well as can be wished. I enjoyed one per- 
formance of the music, and we returned to Windsor on 
the 16th of June. 

M An event has taken place lately which gives me 
great satisfaction. I am sure you are acquainted with 
the novel entitled Cecilia, much admired for its good 






366 LIFE AND COKRESPONDENCE 

sense, variety of character, delicacy of sentiment, &c. &c. 
There is nothing good, amiable, and agreeable men- 
tioned in the book that is not possessed by the author of 
it, Miss Burney. I have now been acquainted with her 
three years : her extreme diffidence of herself, notwith- 
standing her great genius and the applause she has met 
with, adds lustre to all her excellences, and all improve 
on acquaintance. In the course of this last year she has 
been so good as to pass a few weeks with me at 
Windsor, 1 which gave the Queen an opportunity of 
seeing and speaking to her, which Her Majesty was so 
gracious to admit of. One of the principal ladies 
that attends the Queen's person as dresser is going to 
retire into her own country, being in too bad a state of 
health to continue her honourable and delightful em- 
ployment (for such it must be near such a Queen). 
Miss Burney is to be the happy successor, chosen by 
the Queen without any particular recommendation from 
any body. 2 I believe she comes into waiting next 
week. 

" I had the pleasure, before I came out of town, of 
seeing Governor Hamilton in good health and spirits. 
He and 1 sometimes quarrel about his talking of her 
beauty to her face. I trust she will be good and agree- 
able. The way to have her so is to keep her out of the 
line of vanity." 

1 Miss Burney's visit to Mrs. Delany at Windsor, on the occasion here 
alluded to, was of course arranged by the Queen with Mrs. Delany, with a 
view to her appointment as a Dresser. 

2 " Without any particular recommendation from anybody." — The place 
was not asked for by any person, but the appointment was made in conse- 
quence of Mrs. Delany's opinion, given in reply to the Queen's personal 
inquiries, in consequence of Mr. Smelt's suggestion to the King when he 
asked " What could be done for Dr. Burney ?" 






OF MRS. DELANY. 307 

.V ft ('hnpo)ic to Mrs. Ddany, Windsor. 

July 11th, 178G. 

Dear Madam, 

You will receive satisfaction now from hearing 
that my afflicted friends have been mercifully supported 
under their grievous loss, and that their piety, their 
thorough conviction of the blessedness of the dear 
object they have lost, and the gratification they receive 
from the sympathy and esteem of all that knew him, 
afford them all the comfort their situation admits of. 
Next to his nearest connections, no one can feel the 
loss of Mr. Burrows more deeply than myself, to whom 
he was one of the best and most faithful of friends for 
near thirty years past ! But I feel ashamed to lament 
for myself, whilst I see such patterns of resignation and 
meek submission in his wife and sister. Mr. Smith 1 
was so kind to fetch me to his house at Hadley the 
third day after the death of my dear friend. I am 
much better in health and much less unhappy here 
tli an I could be anywhere else, flattering myself with 
the thought that my true affection and sympathy affords 
some little gratification to those I so much wish to com- 
fort. 

I wish much to hear that you, my dear madam, are 
in good health, and that your spirits are more at ease 
than when I saw you last. I particularly wish to hear 
that your sweet companion, Miss Port, is return'd to 
you. I am sure it must have been a painful duty that 
parted her from you. 

I shall be much obliged if you will convey my sin- 
Culling Smith, Esq., married Mary, sister of the Rev. Dr. Burrows, 
Rector of Hadley and St. Clement Danes. Mr. Smith was created a Baronet, 
22nd Dec, 1802, and was grandfather to Sir Culling Eardley. (1861.) 



368 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

cere congratulations to dear Miss Burney : I feel much 
interested in her happiness, which I hope will be 
promoted by the favour with which the Queen has dis- 
tinguish'd her, particularly as it brings her so near the 
person of her most amiable mistress. I own I feel a 
selfish regret in the apprehension that it will take her a 
good deal out of the societies to which she was so great 
an ornament. What a pleasure must it have been to you, 
my dear madam, to have been the means of introducing 
her to the honours she so well deserves ! I imagine 
she has now so little time that I would not intrude upon 
her with a letter ; but whatever kind hand you employ 
to give me the pleasure of hearing of you, will, I hope, 
tell me all they can about her. I know you will have 
the goodness to indulge me with the intelligence I wish 
for, and that you will believe me, with the highest 
esteem and respect, dear madam, 

Your ever obliged and aff te 

H. Chapone. 

Culling Smith's, Esq. 
Hadley, Barnet, July 11th. 






The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Glan Villa, 12th July, 86. 

I am very thankful, my dear madam, for the favour 
of y r letter, and the kind sympathy you express for me. 
I have coquetted with several villas in the West of 
London, yet have I never seen one so pleasant, so 
retir'd, so much the country, or indeed so comodious 
(because of the offices) as this rural guinguette is; 
therefore perceiving that I was fix'd for the remainder 
of my short days, I proceeded this spring to give it a 



OF MRS. DELANY. 3G9 

thorough repair, new roof, &c. But you will ask if I 
can sloop under my new roof in company with the house- 
breakers, only a few stairs between? I answer, Cer- 
hllnl . v wl and therefore I have at once got and 
instituted a watch in my garden, so that if I had now 
the pleasure to possess you in the dormitory you have 
honour'd, you wou'd hear "Past twelve o'clock and a 
moonlight morni,,,," just as if you were in St. James's 
Place. With this precaution I trust I shall have no 
more nightly visitors, not forgetting, however, that 
" except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh 
but in vain." 

As to giving myself the pleasure to make you a visit, 
my dear madam, that is for the present out of the ques- 
tion, as I have got, beside my friend and y r favourite 
Miss Saver, two of my grandsons (pretty rogues), one 
of w ch has had the measles at Dr. Goodenough's school, 
and the other here with me. Both now recover 'd, I 
thank God ! and every other day the Duke and Duchess 
of Beaufort come and dine with me, and see their fine 
boys ; but this is now over, and I expect them to-day 
for the last time, as they have staid for the purpose of 
paying their duties to their Majesties at the drawing- 
room to-morrow, so that the next day they set out with 
their family for Badminton, and I shall keep my pretty 
boys a little longer to take their physick l (Miss Port 

1 Richard Lovell Edgeworth, in his Autobiographical Memoirs, gives 
the following account of the treatment to which he was subjected when a 
child—" At this time, the humoral pathology was the creed of physicians, 
and of those well-meaning ladies who watch over the constitutions of their 
children, and endeavour, by continual preventives, to avert every approach 
of disease ! I was naturally strong and active, but I was obliged to take 
a coarse of physic twice a-year, every Spring and Autumn, with nine days' 
potions of tmaU beer and rhubarb, to 'fortify the stomach ' and to ■ kill 
(imaginary) worms,' " &c. &c. 



370 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

knows it is given with no sparing hand after the measles), 
and then carry them back to school, where L d W m Ben- 
tinck had it at the same time as L d Arthur Somerset 
(one of my guests). 

I shall mention to my afflicted friends at Hadley the 
kind part you take in their loss. Mrs. Chapone is with 
them, and I waited on her, but she was gone to Dr. 
Beauvoir's, whose dau r had taken herself away that 
morning to St. James's church, where she was marry'd 
to Mr. de Chere, 1 son of Dr. de Ohere, without the 
knowledge of her father, for whom she left a letter — 
perhaps in the stile of y r friend Dean Swift, viz. : 

" She valu'd not what others thought her, 
And was his most obedient daughter" 

I am scribbling on without measure, but Miss Port 
may read it half over night and the rest next morning, 
for I have a great deal more to say ; and to tell you of 
a noble friend of yours, Lord Mansfield. He look'd 
well, but complained of a violent pain in his arm, w cb 
he said made him so restless that he should walk more 
than sit, w ch he did, but convers'd with great cheerful- 
ness. Lady Mount Edgcumbe happen'd to be here with 
me. She too departs for Mount Edgcumbe after the 
drawing-room to-morrow. Miss M. Murray came with 
L d Mansfield, and to day I sent to enquire after his 
lord p . He sent me word that he had had an exceeding 
good night, and was quite well to-day. I saw Lady 
Bute well last Thursday. I fancy she sets out for York- 
shire next week. 

I am very glad you have had the pleasure to see 



1 Isabella, youngest daughter of Osmund Beauvoir, D.D., married, 
10th July, 1786, Blackett de Chair, Esq. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 371 

your good and agreeable "son" Mr. Montagu; L d 
Guilford, you know, is a great gr'&ther, and Mr. North 
btfl a son. 

AVI rat a charming breakfast you had last Monday, 
my dear friend ! A circle not to be matcJid indeed, as 
you justly observe. " May their circle of blessings be 
equally uncommon." 

With this loyal and very sincere wish I take my 
leave of you, my dear madam. 

F. B. 



Tlxe Rev. W. Qilpin to Mrs. Delcrny. 

Vicars Hill, July 18th, 1786. 

Dear Madam, 

Your kind, obliging letter, which I have just 
received, both gratifyed and hurt me, for tho' I so often 
beg you not to trouble yourself with answering my 
letters, yet, as I know your kindness and civility, I 
could not help in this particular case fearing something 
was the matter. Oh ! Madam, I hoped your latter days 
would have been screened from all affliction ; but Kings 
and Queens cannot give that, when heaven thinks afflic- 
tion necessary ! Yet I am grieved to hear you say, 
your poor shattered spirits, instead of being revived, 
were at a very low ebb. But I hope such oppressions 
are unusual with you, and that, in a little time, you 
can summon to your relief a thousand considerations to 
oppose them. I think, dear madam, it was a bold ex- 
periment to go in quest of better spirits in the hurry of 
London. I am sure it is an experiment that would fail 
with me. I spent only four days there, and the bustle 
of it almost turned my head ; I found all people inex- 



372 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

pressibly busy, and I hope they were all well em- 
ployed. I called upon 30 or 40 of my friends, but I 
had not the pleasure of finding above 3 or 4 ; all were 
abroad, in quest of something that was not to be found 
at home. I met with one of my friends, however, Col. 
Milford, who sweetened my disappointment by walking 
about the streets with me a whole morning. We tra- 
velled amicably, arm in arm, resolving not to separate 
unless I should happen to be admitted where he was 
unacquainted, but we had not one occasion to unlink. 
The next day I made my peregrination alone ; but with 
the same success. In revenge on seeing the innumer- 
able carriages which were disturbing the quiet of the 
streets, I amused myself with supposing what curious 
employment I should have if the legislature should 
have empowered me to stop every carriage I met, to 
inquire its course, and send it home, if I was not satis- 
fyed with the reason given. If I had met you hurry- 
ing to Westminster, I will not absolutely say whether I 
should not have turned to your coachman, and given 
him orders to carry you imediately back to Windsor, I 
believe, however, I should have let you pass, just to 
try the experiment, but I know not whether I might 
not have given you a gentle reprimand ! Among the 
friends whom I was disappointed in not seeing, Mr. 
Walpole was particularly one ; as I heard he had been 
so good as to take some pains to find me. 

But the bustle of London follows us even here. This 
place is much more public than I could wish ; unless I 
had the same legislative power of furnishing it with 
such inhabitants as I thought proper. Yet sometimes 
it brings in my way characters I esteem. Lady Jul. 



OF MRS. DKLANY. ,373 

Penn is one. Her character T always esteemed; but 
never so much as sin* the American troubles! But she 
has been confined, poor lady! ever since she came (by 
Miss Baker's bavin- the measles). I bad a visit also 
from T,»nl Qower and Lady Sutherland, 1 who drank 
** i wlt . 1 ' me - They bad been rambling about the Isle 
jM W ln'te. I feel myself much interested in the happi- 
ness bf thai young couple, who will, I hope, by their 
brudence set an example to the young nobility. Lady 
Butherlind, I think, is a wonderful woman in having 
preserved such simplicity of manners amidst the great 
attention that has been paid her. 

Believe me, dear madam, with all respect, 

Yours, 

W. Gilpin. 

The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, 23rd July, 1786. 

I have no need to trouble Mrs. Astley often, as I hear 
:>f my dear friend frequently by Mrs. Cole thro' Mrs. 
Leveson. There is no comparison between the cheer- 
fulness of pretty Glan Villa and my present abode. In 
he latter I have a fine large drawing-room, above 30 
eet long, in which I sit proud and melancholy, like 
faster Stephen in the play. Yesterday it was enliven'd 



1 George Granville, Lord Gower, married, 4th Sept., 1785, Elizabeth, 
ountess of Sutherland and Baroness of Strathnaver in her own right. Lord 
ower succeeded, on the death of his father in 1803, to the Marquisate 

Stafford; was created Duke of Sutherland 14th Jan., 1833; and died 
)th July of the same year. 



374 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

by the good company of Mr. Walpole, who made me a 
visit in the evening. To-day I am come to London 
upon various business, which the sale of one house and 
the purchase of another occasions. My new one is 
accounted very cheap, but then I have a great deal to 
expend upon it, such as entire new paling everywhere, 
and gates and pumps, all being gone to ruin in the 2 years 
it has stood empty ; and rather than have an auction in 
y e house I took the furniture as it stood, in which I find 
a parcel of rags, tho' some is good, as it ought, for I 
have paid £540 for it. What must pay me for the 
great trouble, indeed pain, of taking myself up by the 
roots at my age. Natural indolence, and love of quiet, 
is the security I hope to find against the nightly ruffian 
who visited three times the dwelling I have quitted, and 
twice enter d it I 

I have had the pleasure of the Duke of Beaufort's 
company in my new mansion, who came from Mon- 
mouth to the Old Bailey ! to appear ag 8t Gentle- 
man Harry, but the latter was able to get his tryal 
put off to the next sessions, so that his Grace had 
his journey for nothing, and I alone profited, as 
he staid a day and a night with me. The Duchess 
comes up next month to lye-in ; meantime I pur- 
pose to make Mr. Leveson a visit at Bill Hill, as 
she will also to me if Mrs. Leveson shou'd go to Ports- 
mouth, as we have expected. 

I have waited on your cousin the Marchioness (of 
Tweeddale) to return the honour of her visit. We 
talk'd much of you, dear madam, and I saw a picture 
of your painting, w ch was a pleasant sight to me. Lady 



OF MRS. DELANY. 375 

Joanna ThornhiU, 1 1 think, is the name, but the portrait 
yon have also in y r parlor in London. 

I have not heard anything of Mrs. Walsingham since 
niv removal. Poor Mrs. Yesey is still in London, Mr. 
Walpole tells me. 

F. DoSCAWEN. 

Titc Hon. Mrs. Boscaiven to Mrs. Delany. 

(Query) (?) July, 178G. 

How kind is my dear friend to tell me such good 
news as she knew I shou'd be delighted to hear, and 
how thankfull I am for it. 

I rejoyce extremely, and send my sincere congratu- 
lations to y r young friend ; but I have a great mind to 
pity Dr. Burney, who looses his beloved daughter, and 
yet must rejoyce over his loss. 

I am heartily glad to hear you sleep better, my dear 
madam; and now that y r foe Apollo has withdrawn 
himself, he leaves you to enjoy the day. All the fields 
are adorned with haycocks, which look as if they had 
had their full share of wet, and wanted to get dry and 
go home. I never go into the morning bower without 
tli inking of you, my dear madam. It is very sweet 
just now, with a fine orange tree in full bloom, and a 
jewel of a blackbird has fix'd his station pretty near it, 
so that it wants only the mower whetting his scythe, 
and the milk-maid turn'd haymaker, singing blythe, 
and these will be added in a few days, I trow. 

I don't know if ever I carry'd you to General Prevo's 
in this neighbourhood. Him we have lost, and there 



1 Lady Joanna Thornhill, a daughter of Sir Bevil Granville's. Painted 
more than once by Mrs. Delany. 



376 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

is come into his house an acquaintance of yours, Mrs. 
Blair, that was a Miss Johnson ; a foreigner, I believe. 
Pray tell me who is Mr. Blair ? They have a very large 
family, I am told. I shall wait on her, because she is 
an acquaintance of yours. 

The Edgtfumbe family have promis'd to spend a day 
with me, but could not name it, because of the House 
of Commons, w ch the young gentleman attends most 
assiduously. My nursery in Grov. Square goes on well, 
I thank God, or rather is almost over. Your late noble 
friend, Lady Anne Coventry, 1 is remember d in the child's 
name, w ch for her sake is Anne. 2 Happy if it cou'd also 
take her virtues ! I hope it will ! The Countess Dow r 
of Suffolk, 3 Countess of Sefton, 4 and Earl of Hunting- 
don, 5 are sponsors. Adieu, my dear madam. 



The Earl of Guilford to Mrs. Delany. 

Wroxton, Aug. 5th, 1786. 

Madam, 

I was exceedingly shocked to see in my news- 
paper yesterday an account of a most wicked attempt 
upon the King's person. 'Tis to be hoped the woman 
will be found to be insane, for 'tis shocking to conceive 
any person in their senses could be capable of attempt- 
ing to perpetrate so horrid a crime. His Majesty has 



1 Lady Anne Coventry, widow of Thomas, 2nd Earl of Coventry. 

2 Lady Anne Elizabeth Somerset, daughter of Henry, 5th Duke of 
Somerset, and grand-daughter of Mrs. Boscawen, b. 1786. , Jr. 

3 Elizabeth, d. of William Kingscote, Esq., and widow of Thomas 
Howard, 4th Earl of Suffolk and Berkshire, d. June 23rd, 1789. 

4 Lady Isabella Stanhope, daughter of William, 2nd Earl of Harrington, 
m. Charles William Molyneux, 1st Earl of Sefton. 

'Francis Hastings, 10th Earl of Huntingdon, died Oct. 2nd, 1789. 



OF MRS. DBLANY. .'mi 

had a marvellous escape, and manifested his being under 
the immediate protection of Divine Providence, for 
which we cannol be too thankfull. I hope the Queen 
had no unreasonable allarm before she saw the King re- 
turned safe and well ; but the idea of such a horrid at- 
tempt haveing boon made must have greatly agitated 
her spirits, and I am anxious to hear from you, who I 
know will have been well informed, that she has not 
Buffered in her health. I feel very sensibly everything 
that affects Her Majesty, and am sure, from the effect it 
has had upon my nerves, that she must have sufferd a 
1 deal from the surprise. I think the same with 
id to you, and am anxious to know also how you 
do after such an agitation of spirits. I hear the King's 
behaviour was great, composed, and generous, in desiring 
in the moment of the horrid attempt that care should 

taken of the woman, who appear'd to be insane. I 
hope effectual care will be taken that the woman is 
closely confined during her life. Our laws are, in my 
opinion, very deficient in not taking care of the confine- 
ment of persons insane. I meet two frequently in my 
garden whom the people who ought to confine them at 
home let them go about where they please. — They ap- 
pear at present very innoffensive. — But when the senses 
disorderd nobody can tell what a sudden phrensy 

f put into their heads ? I expect in a day or two our 
friends Mr. Frederick Montagu and Lord and Lady 
Willoughby and their children, and I am sure they will 
rv anxious for an answer to this letter. I am, 
thank God, pretty well, but travelling does not always 
itli me. The weather changed from hot to cold 
just upon my arrival here, and I can't say I have yet 

PART II. VOL. III. 2 C 



378 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

quite recover'd the jumbling of my journey. Believe 
me, witli great truth, dear madam, 
Your most obedient, 

And obliged humble servant, 

Guilford. 



TJie Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Glan Villa, 4th Aug.,i (1786?) 

I cannot forbear inquiring after your health, my dear 
friend, even tho' I had the satisfaction to hear a good 
account of it lately, by Mrs. Chapone, who was so kind 
to spend a few days with me here, but is now return'd 
to Hadley ; and as we were going thither we met the 
postman of this place, who, coming up to the chaize to 
deliver me my letters, told me of an attempt on the 
most precious of all lives, and told it me in so abrupt a 
manner, that we were greatly alarm'd indeed, and if 
you had the ill-luck to hear it with as little precaution, 
it is no wonder that I enquire how you do. I have 
been in care too for Her Most Gracious Majesty ; I hope 
nobody told it to her but the King himself, and then she 
will not think of this wretched lunatic, so as to give her 
a moment's anxiety, for the horrid attempt itself suffi- 
ciently shews (had we ever doubted it), how precious 
His Majesty's life is, and how very dear to all his 
subjects, so that " Long live the King" has been echo'cl 
from every corner of his dominions. His coat of mail is 
the heart of all those that can approach him, and well 
might His Majesty say (with that magnanimity that 



1 On the 2nd of Aug., 1786, Margaret Nicholson attempted to assassinate 
King George III. 



OF IfKS. DELANY. 379 

belongs to him), " She is a lunatick, do not hint her" for 
no one in their senses could have lifted a hand but in 
prayer for his safety. 

I trust therefore, my dear friend, this amazing event 
lias not disturb'd your mind, for you see 'twas the 
species of frenzy that this wretch is visited with, that 
cou'd alone occasion an attempt that ends in proving 
that of all sovereigns, ours may most justly be hailed 
" Lc bien aime" 

I have lately seen two ladies of your acquaintance, 
who enquir'd much after you ; one was our amiable 
Mrs. Mellish, with whom I din'd at Bush Hill to meet 
Mr. and Madame de Pinto (the Portugese ambassador). 
They have since been on a visit to Mrs. Blair, who is 
the other lady that wish'd to hear of y r health. Madame 
de Pinto told us that a priest in her fathers house, a 
very learned and sensible man, was on a sudden seiz'd 
with a frenzy, that made him think that he was elected 
I so that going into the chapel to preach on some 
high festival, he took his master aside to tell him that 
he doubted if it was of his dignity to preach, now that 
he was exalted to the papacy! As a great congrega- 
tion was assembled, the Count had the presence of 
mind to tell him that as his exaltation was as yet a secret, 
it wou'd be proper to keep it so, w cb nothing cou'd do 
so effectually as his preaching as usual. He entered 
into this reasoning, mounted the pulpit, and preach'd 
incomparably. Adieu, my dear madam. I have seen 
o who saw you last Sunday sitting at a window in 
the Castle, and looking very well. — I heard also of Miss 
a <jood looks at the speeches at Eton ! 

F. Boscawen. 
2 c 2 



380 



LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



Miss Emelia Clayton 1 to Miss Port. 

(Query) Aug. 1786. 

I cannot let Mrs. Hawkins go to Windsor without 
writing one word to my dear Georgiana, to thank her for 
her company at breakfast, and to repeat to her how very 
very happy it made me, which I have been reproaching 
myself with not having expressed half kindly enough. 
Mama desires I would send you her kind love, and tell 
you how much she is obliged to you for coming to me. 

If you see Lady Charlotte let her know we are all 
well, and give every thing proper and affec ate from us 
to dear A. D. I hardly know how to send you such a 
scrawl, but hope you will forgive it, and attribute it to 
my wish tho' hurried to death, of expressing to you the 
sincere and faithful affection of your 

Emelia A. Clayton. 



Dr. Warton to Mrs. Delany. 

Winton, Aug. 25th, 1786. 

Dear Madam, 

I should not have delay'd a moment to return 
you my best thanks for your kindnesses and attention 
to me at Windsor, and full pleasures I received from 
making you a visit, if I could have met with a frank, 
in which I could have convey'd the enclosed curiosity 



J, Emelia, only d. of Lady Louisa Clayton, 4th d. of the 1st Earl Pomfret, 
sister of Lady Charlotte Finch, governess to the Princesses, of Lady Sopbia 
Fermor, 2nd wife of Earl Granville, and of Lady Anne Dawson, 1st wife 
of Thomas Dawson, Esq., created Baron Dartrey in 1770, and Viscount 
Cremorne in 1785. Lady Louisa Clayton was 3rd wife of W. H. Clayton, 
2nd son of Sir William Clayton, Bt. 



OF MRS. DELANT. 381 

of which I spoke to you, and which I thoughl you would 
like to sue. The paper from Mr. Rooke will give you 
the history of this valuable seal. 1 

I know I have so great a share in your kind wishes 
thai I may our day be able to retire from my very 
laborious employment, that I cannot forbear hinting 
to you, that I have some prospects of preferment, by 
my friend and relation, Lord Shannon's 2 application for 
me to Mr. Pitt. Lord Shannon is a man, who from his 
own character, connexions, and situation, may be thought 
to have weight ; and I well enough know, that if on 
any occasion my name is mentioned, you would say 
something kind and partial of me. I must beg my 
best compliments to your fair (I mean to say) very fair 
neice, Miss Port ; and to your very amiable neighbour, 
Miss Burney. My wife desires to add her best comp 13 . 

I am, dear madam, with the greatest truth and 
respect, 

Your much obliged and 

Most obedient faithfull ser vt , 

Jos. Warton. 3 



1 The impression of this seal is still preserved in the letter carefully en- 
veloped. It bears the following : — 1st and 4th, three fleurs-de-lis (1st and 
4th) ; and three lions (2nd and 3rd) ; 2nd, the Irish harp ; 3rd, the lion of 
Scotland. The whole surmounted by a queen's crown, and the initials 
IC.R., one letter on each side. The seal is lozenge-shaped ; Mr. Rooke's 
paper has not been found. 

1 Richard, 2nd Earl of Shannon, b. 30th Jan., 1727, and d. in 1807. 
This nobleman filled several high political offices, and married, in 17C3, 
Catherine, eldest daughter of Mr. Speaker Ponsonby, of the Irish House of 
Commons. 

3 Dr. Joseph Warton, born 1722, was head master of Winchester School 
from I7G6 to 1793, when hu retired to his rectory of Wickham, and died 
in 1800. 



382 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Miss Emelia Clayton to Miss Port. 

Aug. 29th, 1786. 

My dearest G-eorgiana, 

I would certainly have wrote to you yesterday to 
let you know the happy event that happened here, did 
I not know you would hear it from Lady Charlotte, and 
therefore stopped to give you a second account, which, 
thank God, is a very good one. Mrs. Clayton has had 
a great deal of sleep in the night, and seems as well as 
we can expect ; the little dear boy is very like my 
brother, 1 and has more countenance than I thought was 
possible to be seen in so young a child. My dear 
mother has quite recovered the fatigue she underwent ; 
so much so, that she means to walk up to-day to Mrs. 
Morton's, which is a mile and half from here. I should 
go with her, but that I have got my old friend, a stiff 
neck, and it won't let me go out ; you cannot think how 
proud my b r is of his son ; I think it would please you 
to hear him talk of him ; he says he thinks he has a 
good voice for hunting, and proposes himself much plea- 
sure in hearing him hollow to the dogs. You must 
excuse me for talking so long about him, but I am like 
an old nurse about him, and can hardly think of any- 
thing else. How very happy I am dear Princess 
Elizabeth is so much recovered ; I hope Her Eoyal 
Highness will continue mending, and that when I come 
to Windsor I shall have the happiness of hearing she 



1 William, eldest son of William Clayton, Esq., by his second wife, 
Caroline Mary, daughter of Rice Lloyd, of Allt y Cadno, Esq. He married, 
16th July, 1785, Mary, only daughter of Sir William East,' Bart. ; and on 
the death of his cousin. Sir Robert Clayton, in 1799, he succeeded to the 
Baronetcy. Their eldest son, William Robert, was born 28th Aug., 178<J. 



OF MRS, DBLANY. 3S3 

is quite well. I trust thai time is qoI far off now, but 
I cannol say when exactly, as it so much depends upon 
how .Mrs. Clayton goes on, I believe I Deed not say 
how much I wish to be there to see you all again. 

I have walked out a great deal since I have been 
here, and have been io all the places where I spent 
thirteen years in such perfect happiness ! Yon cannot 
imagine how pretty the grotto that yon have heard me 
speak of is. [ sel there almost every day, and often 
wish for yon, and long to shew you all this place. I 
think you would enjoy the beauties of it. My brother 
and I are very much upon the water, which I am vastly 
fond of, tho' I believe I am obliged to it for the many 
stiff necks I have had since I have been here, for we 
generally stay till it is quite dark, and so clamp, that 
my cloaths are quite wet, which you know is very ivise, 
but now I am an aunt, I intend to behave better. 

I hope dear Mrs. Delany is pretty well, and that you 
are not quite froze, tho' I think the extreme cold of the 
weather may have some chance, but I trust that wadded 
cloaks will just keep you. alive till I come home. 

My nephew is making such a noise I must go and 
see what's the matter. 

I am quite hurt you should have waited so long for a 
letter from me, which I realy only put off till this child 
was born. I feel how ungrateful and wrong it was in 

. and you cannot think how unhappy I am at having 
i so negligent, but I hope you will excuse me, and 
believe it was quite forgetful ness. 

I am quite sorry, to hear we have simpathized in 
having stiff , but pray comfort yourself by thinking 

it is a good thing to have any thing so slight, and I find 
my pain decrease, by thinking how much more many 



384 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

poor creatures suffer constantly, and how little reason 
I have even to think mine pain, when I recollect what 
poor Mrs. Clayton suffered the day before yesterday. 

Emelia A. Clayton. 



TJie Viscountess Weymouth to Mrs. Delany. 

Sept. 9th, 1786. 

Dear Mrs. Delany, 

I am very much obliged to you for your kind 
and long letter, and am very happy you were able to 
enjoy the amusements of the Castle. The musick I 
don't doubt was vastly fine. 

I have the happiness of hearing constant good 
accounts of dear Sophia ; she has recover' d vastly well, 
and has not suffered by being informed of the melan- 
choly event, as Lord S* Asaph took so much care of 
having it conceal' d from her till she was recovered. I 
am very sorry to hear Mrs. Mills has been so ill, I hope 
as she has lasted so long she will recover. The Dss 
of Portland has allways bad spirits, I hope she will not 
be alarm'd. I heard she intended to suckle, but I think 
it is rather too late in life to commence a wet nurse, 
and so nervous a constitution will make a very bad one. 

I am sorry you have not succeeded quite, as you 
wish'd w th the Chancellor. When I see him I will tell 
him what you desire ; and when Lord Weymouth's 
turn at the Charter House comes he will be inform'd, 
and I don't doubt he will name Master Port. 

Have you heard lately from Lady Bute ? I suppose 
this is near the time of her going to Bath. Best comp ts 
attend you from all here. Believe me, dear Mrs. 
Delany, Most affec. y rs , 

E. C. Weymouth. 



OF MBS. DELANY. «°)85 

The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Badminton, Sept. I Lth, 1786. 

My wandering season began much about the lime I 

iv'd your most agreeable, most welcome epistle, 

and as L was going to Lady Smythe's, near Tunbridge, 

I promis'd myself I would write from thence, where I 
was sure to see Lord Mansfield, and was in great liopo 
I might have the satisfaction to report to you his better 
health. I did see him several times, but I cannot say 
that there was any improvement in his health. Still 
that severe pain in his arm, which causes sleepless 
nights, but too often. After I return' d from Kent, I 
saw Miss Murray s, but their accounts did not differ 
from those I brought them. I imagine, however, his 
lordship's state, is rather a suffering than a dangerous 
one. I hope to find him at Ken Wood, when I return. 
Before I went into Kent, I had the great good luck to 
spend an afternoon with Mr. and Mrs. Jenyns, who 
had seen my dear Mrs. Delany in the morning. If 
you kindly say why did not you come and see? I shall 
answer that I could not, because my journey hither was 
post — in one day. Mrs. Leveson of the party, whose 
fiirlow being short she could not afford to spend any 
of it in an inn. Mr. Leveson could not quit his attend- 
ance at the Admiralty, where he spends 4 days in the 
week ; so she is here with the only one of y 1 ' cousins, 
that is not at school. Boys I mean ; for there are 
two little girls left at Bill Hill, who are great praters, 
and will, therefore, be pleasant companions to their 
father from Friday till Tuesday. I had the peculiar 
pleasure to dine with 8 grandchildren yesterday. To- 



386 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

day I believe the lesser ones will not be admitted, be- 
cause we have company, Lord and Lady Ducie, 1 &c. ; 
but happily there is not just now any company in 
the house. The Du ss of Beaufort inquires after you, 
dear madam, and Mrs. Leveson ventures to answer her, 
having constantly heard of you by Mrs. Cole. But I 
desire you will entrust me to give undoubted intelli- 
gence of you to both these ladies. 

F. Boscawen. 

Commend me kindly to Miss Port, her friend Lady 
Eliz. Somerset 2 has had the jaundice, but is now re- 
cover'd, I thank God ; but it has left her languid, and 
very thin. Be pleas'd to direct to the Duke of Beau- 
fort, Badminton, (Dunkirk bag.) 






Miss Port to John Port, of Ham, Esq. 

Windsor, 10th Sept, 1786. 

My dearest Papa, 

I am happy to find I could afford my dear 
mamma or you the least amusement. The Arch Duke 
and Duchess of Milan 3 have been presented to their 
Majesties in private, as had they appeared in state 
they must have gone through many ceremonies which 

1 Thomas Reynolds Moreton, 2nd Baron Ducie, of Tortworth, married, 
Feb. 20th, 1774, Margaret, daughter of Sir John Ramsden, Bart. 

2 Lady Elizabeth Somerset, daughter of Henry, 5th Duke of Beaufort. 
She married, in 1796, the very Rev. Charles Talbot, D.D., Dean of Sarum, 
and died in 1836. 

3 H. R. H. Ferdinand, Archduke of Austria, Governor of Milan, with his 
consort, H. R. H. Beatrix of Este, Princess of Modena, and their suite, 
arrived in London on the 3rd of Sept., 1786. " On Friday, the 8th of Sept., 
a royal breakfast was prepared for them, of coffee, tea and chocolate, with 
soups, fowls of all kinds, both wild and tame, and other meats." 



OF MBS, D] 

fcbey now avoid. They breakfasted with the King and 
Queen at Kew, and T. fci's had a oold collation pre- 
pared for them after they had walked about the 

gardens; but unfortunately it, being Friday, was a fast 
day, and to the utter astonishment oi' our King and 
Queen, (who n collected the fast,) the Arch Duke 

and Duchess refused to eat anythingl It was an un- 
lucky mistake, as they might take it as an affront. 
The King and Queen have offered them apartments 
tor as long a time as they chuse, but they refuse 
lying out of their own house (a custom among them). 
They talk German remarkably well, but not a word of 
English. The Duchess is very agreable, and the Duke 
is a good sort of man; but not as bright as his wife. 
The yare to come and see Windsor. 

We had the three youngest Princesses to breakfast 
with us during their Majesties absence last week ; and 
I entreated Princess Mary 1 to play a lesson of Handel's 
that mama does. — I gave her that as my reason for 
asking for it ; and then she with all ihe sweetness in 
the world, played it twice. When Princess Mary finished 
Princess Sophia said, " Now I will play to you if you 
like it," and immediately played the ITallejuah Chorus 
in the Messiah ; and she and Princess Mary sung it. 
Princess Mary has realy a fine wice, and Princess 
Sophia a weak but sweet one. So between them both 
I was highly gratified, and I wished for mama to hear 
and see them, for they looked like little angels! They 
are very very fair, fine blue eyes, and hair exactly like 



1 Princess Mary, daughter of King George III., bora 25th April, 177G. 
She married, 22nd duly, LS10, her cousin, II. U.K. the late Duke of 
Gloucester, and died 30th April, I 



388 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Fanny's 1 which they have a vast deal of, and which 
curls all down their backs ; they go without caps, and 
are so engaging in their behaviour, that every body 
must love them, and admire those who made them what 
they are. I must tell you a trait of Princess Mary ; she 
told me she had brought me her new watch to look 
at, which the Queen gave her on her birthday. I 
told her she was very good to me, and returned the 
watch when I had looked at it. " Now," said she, " I 
will do you a favor. I have done none in bringing the 
watch, but I wiir do a great one by showing you the 
letter the Queen writ me with it," which she did. I 
admired the pocket book she took the letter out of, she 
said, " it was pretty but that she had prettier, tho' she 
valued that the most, for (said she) this contains all the 
letters the Queen has writ to me." I thought it was so 
pretty in her to make this speech — and showed so 
much heart in her. 

Love to George, 2 who I desire will not ride my mare 
hard, who I hope is quite well. Lady Effingham 3 and her 
daughter Lady Frances Howard 4 have just been here ; 



1 Frances Port, of Ham, afterwards Mrs. Ram. 

2 George Port, of Ham, whom Mrs. Delany used to call her " little 
Vandyke" to whom Queen Charlotte gave a presentation to the Charter 
House, and whose graceful manner of kneeling down to kiss the Queen's 
hand, combined with his remarkable beauty, produced such a lasting 
impression on Lady Effingham and Lady F. Howard. He died June 20th, 
1794, at Antigua, of yellow fever, 2nd lieut. on board H.M.S. the " Reprisal," 
in his 20th year. 

3 " Lady Effingham." — Elizabeth, daughter of Peter Beckford, Esq., 
married, 1744-5, Thomas, 2nd Earl of Effingham, who died in 1763. She 
married, secondly, in 1776, Sir George Howard. Lady Effingham was one 
of the Ladies of the Bedchamber to the Queen. 

4 Lady Frances Herring Howard, fourth daughter of Thomas, 2nd Earl 
of Effingham. She died June 16th, 1796. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 389 

and Lady Francos desired \ would tell George she 
'•hoped he remembered her, for she did him, and was 
quite in love with him" George saw her when lie saw 
the Queen and Princess, as she attended them. George 
nniM Bend some answer to tin's message, as I shall see 
her soon again, and I know she will ask- a Her him. 

Georgiana M. A. Port. 



TJic Countess of Stamford to Mrs. Delany. 

Dunham Massey, Sept. 24tb, 1786. 

My dearest Friend, 

Your kindness in thinking of me upon every 
occasion wherein you know I am interested, demands 
my sincerest acknowledgement. I realy feel very happy 
that our dear Lady S fc Asaph is safe in her bed, and I 
trust in God that she and her little girl 1 will continue 
as well as can jDossibly be wished. A thousand thanks 
to you, my dearest madam, for your kind congratulations 
upon this event ; and also for your kind enquiry after 
my dear Harriet, and the precious little babe. They 
are both, I thank God, as well as I can wish. We are 
to have the felicity to pay them a visit to-morrow, and 
shall stay there a few days. It is a comfortable circum- 
stance that we can be with her in six hours, from either 
this place, or Envil ; for Sir John Chetwode's house is 
just halfway between our two houses. All the rest of 
my dear flock are very well. I rejoice with you, my 
dear friend, in the calm that reigns at Ham, and sincerely 

1 Sophia, third daughter of Thomas, Viscount Weymouth, married, 
28th Aug., 1784, George, Viscount St. Asaph. Lady St. Asaph died in 
1701, leaving an only surviving daughter, Elizabeth Sophia. 



390 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

wish it may continue. I thank you very much for im- 
parting to me such welcome intelligence ; for you well 
know how much my heart sympathizes with yours, 
either in its joys or griefs ; upon the subject of the 
latter I felt very much for you, upon the late very 
melancholy event of Mrs. Fountayne's death, 1 and am 
truly concerned for all her family ; but I hope it will 
please God to support them under their great affliction. 
I am happy to hear that you are better, and that your 
dear niece Miss Port is quite well. I don't doubt she 
was very happy at the Maidenhead races, for I am 
well acquainted with the joys of her age ! My dear 
girls have had a large portion of amusement the last 
week. We attended the Musical Festival at Chester, 
where they were very much entertained, and escaped 
with less fatigue than I expected. 

I am much obliged to you for the news you sent me. 
I have so sincere a regard for L y Louisa Clayton 2 that 
I share in any event that can add to her happiness, tho' 
I am a stranger to both the parties. Your account of 
your great and good neighbours cannot fail to afford to 
me most heartfelt satisfaction. I hope the Pss Elizabeth 
continues quite well ; any relapse, tho' ever so slight, 
cannot fail to give great alarm after what she went 
through the last winter. My girls request me to offer 
their best love to you and Miss Port, who I hope will 



1 Mrs. Fountayne, wife of the Dean of York, and sister of Frederic 
Montagu, Esq., died 10th Sept., 1786. 

2 The event alluded to was the marriage of Mary Anne Clayton, step- 
daughter to Lady Louisa Clayton, to Gen. the Hon. Henry Edward Fox, 
son of Henry Fox, 1st Lord Holland, and brother to the Hon. diaries 
James Fox. 



OF MRS. DELANY, :; "1 

;<t mine. My Lord and Lord Grey desire me to 
present their besi respects to von. Believe me, my 
dearesl friend, with sincere esteem, 

Your most affectionate and faithful, 

H. C. Stamford. 



Mrs. Delany wrote to Mrs. F. Hamilton, from Windsor, 
Sept. 24th, 1786, as follows — 

"Time and absence, I think, rather increase than 
diminish affection, when we from time to time commu- 
nicate that mutual remembrance and regard wliicli has 
lasted so man?/ years ! 

" Your charming account of my amiable old friend, 
Mrs. Clements, gives me cordial comfort, and is a strong 
testimony what an excellent preservative is sweetness 
of disposition, and a conscious reflection of her having 
done her duty in every state of life ! How desirable it 
is to imitate such an example ! 

" Miss Port, I thank God, is now very well ; much 
grown, much improved, and I am much flattered by the 
approbation she meets with, as she has good sense, and 
her principles, I trust, well founded. / hope she will 
■•' a reasonable creature, and be able to stem the 
torrent of folly and indiscretion which her youth, and 
the world may subject her to ! 

" My own health is very tolerable, though subject to 
attacks of faintness and nervous disorders, that some- 
times, I fear, may alarm my friends ; I would fain lessen 
their anxiety, and leave them to think calmly of that 
hour, which, I thank God, appears to me without terror ! 
The deprivation of the friends we have loved best, and 



392 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

the falling off of many for whom we have a great 
regard, casts such a melancholy gloom as to make one 
long for eternity ; humbly beseeching the Almighty to 
make me fit for the change ; but there are times, I 
assure you, when that gloom is dispelled, and .my heart 
is relieved and warmed by the very kind attention of 
my friends of all degrees ; but my greatest distress is, 
that I feel such an overflowing of gratitude as cannot 
be expressed ! 

" It is impossible for me to enumerate the daily 
instances I receive from my royal friends ; who seem 
unwearied in the persuit of making me as happy as 
they can. I am sure you must be very sensible how 
thankful I am to providence for the late wonderful 
escape of His Majesty from the stroke of assassination ; 
indeed the horror that there was a possibility that such 
an attempt would be made, shocked me so much at first, 
that I could hardly enjoy the blessings of such a pre- 
servation. The King would not suffer any body to 
inform the Queen of that event, till he could show 
himself in person to her. He returned to Windsor as 
soon as the Council was over. When His Majesty 
entered the Queen's dressing-room, he found her with 
the two eldest Princesses ; and entering in an animated 
manner, said, ' Here I am, safe and well ! ' The Queen 
suspected from this saying, that some accident had 
happened ; on which he informed her of the whole 
affair. The Queen stood struck and motionless for 
some time, till the Princesses burst into tears, on which 
she immediately found relief. Joy soon succeeded this 
agitation of mind, on the assurance that the person was 
insane, which took off all aggravating suspicion ; and it 



OF MKS. DELANY. 



IB a b< arts oi hie subjects. Imust tell you 

informed me of the whole afflir T J ' " She ^ 
tje evening to attend them f Uhe LoX ZZlf" * 
fining; theh appinessofbeing^htrwS 

has taken up so much of lm P ort ^* affair 

, ximcess jmiz. seems now restorer! +^ ^ x 
health which every one who knows ner 7u s t w^sh t 

Port to spend the evening with }L • rJT 

PAKT II.— VOL III. 

2 i) 



394 LIFE AND COERESPONDENCE 

On the 3rd"of October, , Miss Seward, in writing to Mrs. Gran- 
ville, from Lichfield, says — " I have had another and quite along 
letter from Mr. Harding. He says, ' Boothby was always a 
first rate favourite of mine, but I have seen nothing of him 
since he sunk into his very unpoetic union.' Mr. Harding tells 
me he has been straining every nerve to get the amiable Helen 
Williams a little place at Court of the same nature as Miss 
Burney's, but as yet he has not succeeded ; however, he avows a 
resolution not to rest till he does something materially and 
permanently conducive to her interest. This does not look like 
the selfish, cold-hearted being we heard him represented." 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Glan Villa, 3rd Oct., 1786. 

Much was I pleas'd, my dearest madam, with your 
kind and agreeable, and apt quotation from Gellert. 1 
Admiring, too, the unknown elegant hand, that tran- 
scribed it : but pleasure is short, and when I proceeded 
farther in my dear friend's letter, and came to the sud- 
den death of one, whose loss is so afflictive to her good 
son, and therefore sincerely felt by herself, I was much 
troubled. I had not heard this affecting news till I 
receiv'd your kind letter, my dear madam. I have 
since heard all the particulars from my neighbour Lady 
F. Burgoyne, 2 who is much concern'd for Mr. Montagu ; 



1 Christian Fiirchtegott Gellert was born near Freiberg, in Saxony, 
July 4th, 1715, and died, Dec. 13th, 1769. He was a Professor of 
Philosophy at Leipzig. His Fables, Tales, and Hymns were celebrated in 
their day, and many of his works were translated into various European 
languages. A compendious account of him and of them may be found in 
Metcalfe's History of German Literature. 

2 Lady Frances Montagu, eldest daughter of George, Earl of Halifax, 
married, in 1739, Sir Roger Burgoyne, Bart., of Sutton Park, Bedfordshire. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 305 

and no wonder, for many an affliction of thia bitter kind 
lias be felt within the space of a few years. Many 
bave mourn'd with him lately, the young and the pros- 
perous have been suddenly snatch'd away. I bave 
been particularly, and very sincerely, concernd for one, 
whose mother has been my friend these forty years— 
poor Lady Chatham I 1 one daughter, her eldest child, 2 
and a very amiable one, she had before lost in child- 
bed, and now, this (so prosperous) was her last ! I did 
not fail to write my congratulations to my friend on her 
daughter's 3 safety— Alass ! how short was that suppos'd 
safety ; and I wrote no more : yet this day I have re- 
ceived a letter from Mrs. Stapleton, who knowing how 
truly concernd I should be for my friend, most kindly 
gives me more consolation than she thinks I could 
have hop'd for, even from her fortitude and exemplary 
resignation, so often try'd. She tells me she weeps 
unconstrain'd, and speaks continually of this beloved 
daughter, and by this vent of her sorrow and humble 
submission to the divine will, her friend hopes she will 
not find her feeble state of health much impaired. I 
am sure she has an excellent cordial in the friendship 
and affection of Mrs. Stapleton. I heard this sad news, 
the day I was near enough to you to see the stately 
towers of Windsor. I reserve myself (I trust) for some 
more favourite opportunity ; for indeed I want to see 
you. I am now settled here in my. little Villa during 

1 Hester Grenville, sister to Richard, Earl Temple, and wife of William 
Pitt, 1st Earl of Chatham. 

2 Lady Hester I'itt, wife of Charles, Viscount Mahon, afterwards 3rd Earl 
Stanhope, died July 18th, 1780. 

3 Lady Harriet Pitt, wife of the Hon. Edward James Elliott, died 
Sept. 24th, 1786. 

2 d 2 



396 LIFE AND CORKESPONDENCE 

this month of October. I have nobody with me, but 
a young granddaughter, Lady Harriet Somerset, 1 her 
sweet sister Eliz., 2 being gone to the sea coast for the air, 
and her careful mother with her ; also Lady Frances, 3 
for company to the invalid. I have the satisfaction to tell 
you that they expect Lord Mansfield home next Mon- 
day, and are assur'd he is considerably better. Mrs. 
Finch Hatton they visited yesterday. She is well, but 
in near expectation of being otherwise. Success attend 
her ! Sweet Lady St. Asaph is hitherto kept ignorant 
of the sad loss her lord has sustained. 4 By Nov. those 
ever -greens the Coles will be thinking of their winter 
quarters. How pretty it was of them to come flying 
upon the wings of zeal, and affection to their gracious 
Master ! They return'd the day after you saw them. 

I had a letter to-day from my good friend the Dean 
of G-loster, but with no good account of his health. I 
wish for a continuance of yours, my dear friend, w r ith 
more affection than words can express, and do believe 
you have not need of many to convince you, that I am 
most truly and faithfully yours. 

F. Boscawen. 



1 Lady Harriet Isabella Somerset, daughter of Henry, 5th Duke of 
Beaufort. She married, in 1804, Colonel Mitchell, and died his widow, 
1st June, 1855. 

2 Lady Elizabeth Somerset married, in 1796, the very Eev. Charles 
Talbot, D.D., Dean of Sarum. She died in 1836. 

3 Lady Frances Elizabeth Somerset died 27th May, 1841. 

4 Jemima Elizabeth, Marchioness of Graham, third daughter of the Earl 
of Ashburnham, died 17th Sept., 1786. She was sister to George, Lord 
St. Asaph. 



OF MRS. DKLANY. 



The Countess of link to tin. Vclmy. 

Higlicliff, Oct. Uth, 1780. 

Your lot for. my dear friend gave me great pleasure, 
as it gave me reason to think you are in tolerable health. 
The I am very sorry to find your spirits are so much 
affected by the loss you have sustained in Mrs. Fountain 
and your concern for Mr. Montague, whom I most sin- 
cerely pity. I do not chose to trouble him with a letter 
of condolence on this occasion, but should be much 
obliged if you wou'd mention the part I take in his 
severe affliction when you write to him. 

I am glad to find the Princess Elizabeth's illness is 
not alarming ; she is by all accounts so extremely amiable 
that everybody is interested in her recovery, for her 
own sake, and doubly so for her beloved parents, whose 
kindness to you, my dear friend, I am not surprised at • 
as your merit being known to them, must engage their 
esteem and highest regard. 

We have, indeed, had very violent storms here ; but 
fine weather at intervals, which we have made great 
use of, having made several jaunts to see places. The 
roads all over this country are so fine, there are no 
difficulties to encounter, and tempt one to go about 
* ilton ' and Longford 2 (Lord Radnor's) are both mag- 
nificently fine; but I was most pleased with Beaulieu 3 
Abbey, where nature only is to be admired ; the house 
is an ancient small building, but placed on the side of 
» large beautiful river, which winds under a bank of 



1 Wilton House, Wilts, the seat of the Earl of Pembroke 

2 Longford Castle, Wilts, the seat of the Earl of Radnor ' 

3 Beaulieu, in Hampshire, the seat of the Duke of Buccleuch 



398 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

wood extending several miles, and growing down to the 
edge of the water ; on the opposite side are a range of 
meadows, as green as the plains of Arcadia, forming 
altogether (really) a, pastoral scene, such as Mr. Brown 1 
has attempted to make in many places at the expense 
of half the owner's fortune. 

1 mean to set out for Bath next Monday, but do not 
take London in my way, it being but little more than 
sixty miles from hence, and a good road cross the 
country. I can, therefore, have no opportunity of 
seeing my dear friend at this time. Be assured I long 
very much for that pleasure, which I hope to attain in 
my way from Bath to London. I must beg you to 
direct your next to Bath, which I hope you will do 
soon, as an account of my dear Mrs. Delany is always 
the greatest satisfaction to 

Your ever faithful and affectionate, 

M. W. Bute. 

Louisa is ever much yours, and we both beg our best 
compliments to Miss Port. A thousand thanks for 
your goodness to little Charles. 2 I hope Mrs. Stuart will 
very soon be in England, and I'm sure will be very 
grateful for your kindness to her son. 

i The landscape gardener. & «* /UA***^ 

2 Afterwards General Sir Charles Stuart, JLC.B., who was in 1828 created 
Baron Stuart de Rothesay. He was the eldest son of LerdrGfearies,, fourth 
son of the Earl and Countess of Bute, and of Anne Louisa, daughter and 
coheiress of Lord Vere Bertie. 



C Q^vjtAjJ 



OF MKS. DBLAKT. 399 



Miss Kntcli'i Clayton to Miss Port, at Windsor. 

Audley End, Oct. 13th, 1786. 

My deaukst Georgiana, 

Being Bet down to my comfortable table, I cannot 
refrain from the pleasure of employing this half hour 
before chapel! in writing to you. I hope you received 
my letter from London, which was wrote in a great 
hurry, and I believe quite nonsensical, but my brain 
had been worried all the evening, and my heart all the 
morning, so that 1 was not in a very good situation for 
writing. We arrived here Wednesday evening at 7, 
and found Lord 1 and Lady Howard quite well, and only 
Mr. Arnott, Clerk of the House of Lords, with them. 
He is remarkably agreable. Yesterday, most part of 
the morning was employed in going over this beautiful 
house, which is so much beautified and compleated since 
we were here last it is quite astonishing. I think the 
state apartment is as perfect as anything can be. It 
consists of a bed-chamber, two dressing-rooms, two 
powdering-closets, an antechamber, and a servant's 
room. The bed-chamber, gentleman's dressing-room, 
and antechamber are hung with grey water tabby, 
ornamented with crimson and gold. In the dressing- 
room are the pictures of this present King, (which is so 
like and so expressive of that sweet benevolence shown 
in all his actions, that I could hardly persuade myself it 
was not himself,) the late King, and Prince Ferdinand. 
All the tables and chairs, &c, are suitably beautiful 

1 Sir John Griffin Whit well, 4th Baron Howard de Walden, who was 
created, 5th Sept., 1788, Baron Braybrooke. He married Catherine, 
daughter of William Clayton, Esq., by his first wife, Mary, daughter of 
John Warde, of Squerries, Esq., co. Kent. Lady Howard de Walden was 
consequently, half-sister to Miss Emily Clayton, the writer of this letter. 



400 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

The bed is grey, embroidered most beautifully, and 
made up with the greatest taste I ever saw. The posts 
are white and gold. The lady's dressing-room is hung 
with some very fine modern tapestry ; the chairs and 
tables inlaid, and Bebecca's 1 paintings. I think this 
house is now the most comfortable, magnificent, and 
elegant one that it is possible to imagine, but I own, 
my dear Georgiana, I could not help feeling, whilst I 
was walking over it, I was very glad it did not belong 
to my mother, for I think there is so much state neces- 
sary to be preserved that I should never feel so snug 
and warm as I do in my dear little plain room at 
Windsor, not being afraid of spoiling everything one 
touched. 

We are just come in from a long walk about these 
fine grounds, which realy are delightfull, and vastly 
improved since we were here. 

My dear Marianne, who is now writing by me, de- 
sires I would give you her best love, and tell you she 
hopes you received a note from her in answer to yours, 
for by your letter (that I received to-day, and return 
you many thousand thanks for,) you do not name it ; 
but as you wrote in so great a hurry you might have 
forgot it. She is dearer to me every moment ! in short, 
in my opinion, she is quite perfection. — What, then, 
must be my feelings at thinking I am so near parting 
with her ? tho' what M me de Sevigne experienced at 
M me Grignan's marriage must, I suppose, have been 



1 " Bebecca." The Editor's mother often spoke of the wonderful imitations 
by this painter, and of the trick played upon Lady Howard de Walden, (who 
was particularly precise,) by her believing she saw a black kettle placed upon a 
white satin chair when she entered her drawing-room. Also of his painting 
Buns, which carried round on a tray deceived everybody's eyes. 



OF MRS. DKLANT. 401 

greatly sharper. I cannot express how much more I 
pity her now who,, [ am reading her delightful letters 
than I ever did, and how wrong I feel it in myself to 
have even a though! thai is nol joyful on this occasion, 
but I find it is impossible to struggle against those sen- 
sations ; but I only hope 1 shall ever have a right sence 
Of the happiness I enjoy in possessing such a mother, 
and in knowing the person next dearest to my heart is 
enjoying such lasting comfort as I'm sure there is every 
reason to expect. Col. Fox mentions (in a letter to her 
to-day), with the greatest gratitude, the King's good- 
ness to him the other day, and says nothing could cqnal 
the many gracious and kind (if one may be allowed to 
use the word) expressions he used to him. I believe I 
need not add how much Marianne is flattered by them 
for you who know how toe all love him can imagine what 
pleasure it must give her ! 

_ I mean to teaze you very often with my letters for 
H is such a pleasure to me to write to somebody who 
knows them both, or will indulge me by letting me ex- 
press all my thoughts about them. 

We are to have a Mr. and Mrs. Bramston here next 
week (he is member for Essex,) and I fancy shall be 
very little if at all alone whilst we are here. Our best 
love to dear Mrs. Delany. How much I love you m y 
pen cannot inform you, but whilst you are imagining it 
remember not to forget the word sincere. 

ElIELIA A. O.AYTOM. 

M says I have not said anything pretty from her to 
you or your kind message ; but as the half hour has 
struck, and we move by clock-work litre, you must, if you 
H^ase, conceive it. 



402 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



Mm Emelia Clayton to Miss Port, at Windsor. 

Oct., 1786, (qy.) 

My dearest Georgiana, 

I was just going to write to you when I received 
your dear kind letter, for which I return you many 
thanks. We are all much hurt at the bad account of 
poor Princess Emily. 1 My dear mother was quite 
affected at it, tho' she feels satisfaction in the re- 
signed state of her mind, and those charming feel- 
ings you describe, and which she has ever had reason 
to believe she possesses in a supreme degree. She was 
(when in her service) a kind and affectionate mistress 
to her, and has since ever shewed her so much good- 
ness that it is not to be wondered at she should feel 
the loss of one who she has so much reason to love. 
I suppose before you receive this her trial will be over. 
Let us know, my dear Georgiana (if it is not), what the 
accounts are of her, and pray don't forget always to 
name dear Princess Elizabeth — Words cannot express 
how anxious we are about her ! The other Princesses, 
I hope, are all well. Pray, when you have the opportu- 
nity always present my most affectionate duty to them, 
and tell me if they ever do me the honor to name me, 
for you know what a delight it is to me to hear that 
when I am at Windsor, and what, then, must it be 
when separated 64 miles from them ? My mother and 
Marianne go to town on Thursday for two nights, and 
return here on Saturday with Col. Fox. Pray think 



1 The Princess Amelia Sophia Eleonora, second daughter of George II., 
died 31st Oct., 1786. Lady Louisa Clayton was one of her Ladies of the 
Bedchamber. 



OF BUB, DELANY. 403 

of her the next daw which is her birthday. Believe 
me most truly and tenderly yours, 

Emelia A. Clayton. 



'/'.',. IIoh. Mrs. Jjoscawcn to Mrs. Drfuny. 

Glan Villa, 28th Oct., 178G. 

I am indebted to my dear friend for a most charming 
letter. I delight in the prose, I subscribe to the verse, and I 
pity Miss Port that she was not all this while promoted 
to the honour and pleasure of being your secretary. I 
beg Mrs. Astley's pardon, but I should certainly endea- 
vour to supplant her if I were within reach of exercising 
a function that pays by the inch. When you say you 
have "no particular complaint," I say to myself that is 
very like health. I wish I cou'd tell you the same of one 
who will always interest you — your friend at Ken Wood. 
He honour'd me with a visit here yesterday, and staid 
above an hour, but was in pain all the while he staid, 
which, however, one shou'd not have guess'd by his 
conversation. Better to-day. They remove to London 
next week. Mrs. Finch Hatton is not yet put to bed, 
and Miss May Murray is not quite well, which as you 
know is too common with her. 

The Duchess of Beaufort has had all imaginable suc- 
cess, I thank God, in her pilgrimage to the ocean. 
Her sweet daughter is quite recover'd, and I hope to 
see them next Tuesday, when they will be in London, 
in their way to Combury, by which name you know the 
seat in Oxfordshire, now pretty much in ruins (com- 
par'd to its ancient state), and inhabited by the Duke 
of Beaufort in autumn for hunting. I have obtain'd 



404 LIFE AND COKRESPONDENCE 

leave to keep my young lady a little longer. They 
can hardly miss one, being so entirely occupy' d with 
two of their fine family, Lord Worcester and Lord 
Charles, who set out for the continent as soon as they 
have paid their duty at St. James's. This is a bitter 
event to the Duke and Duchess, to whom they are most 
agreeable companions. I hope you have got Mrs. 
Sandford, as you propos'd. What a holiday it must be 
to her, to pass whole days (tho' but few) with her 
honour'd and beloved friend. I hope she is tolerably 
well. Not so poor Mrs. Chapone. I went to Hadley 
this morning on purpose to meet her, for she is in this 
country at Dr. Beauvoir's ; but when I came there Mrs. 
Burrows told me that she almost kept her bed with a 
violent pain in her face. I hope dear Lady Bute's 
journey to Bath is rather precaution than anything else, 
and that I shall have the pleasure to see her arrive in 
her winter quarters by the time I get there, for which 
I am never in a hurry. You know my faithfull attach- 
ment to Apollo, and when once I am in London / see no 
more of him ! The same reason, bright rays that warm 
and cheer, will keep you at Windsor. Thank God, your 
beloved Princess Elizabeth is recovering at Kew ; at 
least so we flatter ourselves, and so I hope you know. 
The ancient Princess 1 will soon put us in mourning, 
and many indeed, rich and poor, will truly mourn her 
loss ! 

The excellent stanza you sent me I had not seen, 
otherwise than in the addresses 2 of all England, of 



1 The Princess Amelia, daughter of King George II. and aunt to King 
George III., died, unmarried, Oct. 31st, 1786, aged 75 years. 

2 This passage alludes to verses, sent by Mrs. Delany, upon the escape 



OF MRS. DflKAHT. 4og 

which it is the gwnteuenee and mm». I have said 

nv ^Jfoua Seisin perfect heahh, Mr. cZ 
S^^,^^ to ^ thimin ««nbridge 8 h r e 



DEAR SlR, Windsor, Oct. 29th, 1786. 

shall takrt, mU fi C \° bll ' ged t0 y ° U f ° r ^° Ur letter > »d 
He Art!, ^ ^^ oPP^^ty of communicating to 

le<Lm nt? 17 m ° St Pr ° Per aDd ^ tefu11 -knL- 
edgements. bhe seems much pleased at your under- 
taking the task, and hopes you will write your 
sentiments ab t the ma nuscrip/ when you We IZ 
it. I am pretty well. Mary is very well, and sends 
her best comp*. I am afraid I must give up ail thought 
of seeing your dear mother at Windsor I hope to 
ja c h he for an hour at Salt Hill in her way to Lonoon 
I am just going to church, and can only add that I am 
lour most affectionate friend, &c, 

M. D. 

This letter goes with the books and manuscripts from 
fte Crown in Slough by one of the Oxford coaches. I 

yon for* Car . ^ bUt Sha11 remain indebt ed to 
7° u . for they^ay^snm^ikdyjobe delivered safe. 

1 Rev. Daniel Smdforf, afterwards Ei.shop of Edinburgh. 



406 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Miss Emelia Clayton to Miss Port, at Windsor. 

Audley End, Oct. 31st, 1786. 

My dearest Georgiana, 

I take the first moment of answering your dear 
little note about the globes : they are not mama's, but 
mine, and you are very welcome to them or any thing 
else of mama's or mine that you chuse to have, without 
sending for leave. I hope you are not again alone, tho' I 
should gain by your solitude. Mr. and Mrs. Cole are now 
here, and desire I would give you and Mrs. Delany their 
very best compliments, and Mr. Cole desires I would 
tell you "the high sense he has of your understanding I" 
What a pleasant, entertaining man he is ! I am quite 
sorry we are to lose him to-morrow. I cannot tell how 
I love them both for their admiration of dear Mrs. 
Delany and her neice ! We are sadly hurt about poor 
Princess Emily, tho' edyfied at her heavenly com- 
posure ; but tho' certain of her happiness, my dearest 
mother feels the loss of so beloved a mistress I I am sure 
I know what her sensations are, for even when I 
attended my darling E — , and was witness to her great 
suffering, which she bore with that Christian resigna- 
tion as was certain of reaping never-fading happiness, 
no words can express what sorrow my heart felt when 
I knew all hope was gone, and that I should never see her 
morel And to this moment I never think of her 
without feeling how great her loss is to me. Forgive 
me, my dear friend, for conversing so long upon so 
melancholy a subject. 

I must tell you, as I know you feel interested upon 
everything that is near my heart, that we have had a 



OF MRS. DELANY. 407 

letter to-day from my George, 1 with an account of hi 
journey to Dresden, where he ii nut jei arrived ;— but 
what makes it the more acceptable is that we heard last 
week from Baron de Seckendorff with a very indifermi 
account of his health, which made my mother (and I 
must own myself) very uneasy about him, but we have 
the satisfaction of knowing now he cannot be very ill, 
as he talks with great pleasure of the travelling, and 
writes in very good spirits. 

I will not make excuses for conversing so long upon 
my own family, as I know it wont plague you. I follow 
your example now in using that word, for since you 
ordered me not to use it, I have not received one letter 
from you without it. What would I give you could 
fly over here when you are left with " nobody." 

I cannot express how much happier I am since this 
letter of George's is come; it has made my best of 
mothers so much easier and more comfortable. We 
have sad accounts of dear Julia Dawson ; 2 poor dear 
Lady Cremorne writes word every ray of hope is over 
about her— how shocking it is, and how I do pity her 
mother ! Adieu ; I will not detain you any longer 
than to beg you will name Pss E. in your letters. 
Mama and Marianne unite with me in every thing 
affectionate to dear Mrs. Delany and yourself. My 
mother and Marianne go to town on Thursday, and 
stay till Saturday, when Col. Fox returns with them ; I 
shall be left here with Lord and Lady Howard. ' I 

1 Col George Clayton, son of Mr. William and Lady Louisa Clayton 
married Frances Hinchcliffe, daughter of John, Bishop of Peterborough ' 
a Miss Dawson, only daughter of Viscount Cremorne, died June 4th 



408 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

almost feel angry at being robbed of two days and a 
half of my dear sister's company, but II faut se sou- 
mettre. I realy must beg you would excuse the many 
mistakes in this letter, but I think you will when you 
know my Marianne is talking to mama all the time 
about her future schemes, which I cannot help attending 
to. I have not felt so happy a great while as my dear 
boy's letter has made mama so perfectly so, and now I 
will have done. 

I have opened my letter again to tell you I have seen 
Mr. Pennistone, who is certain Lady Louisa is at this 
present moment at Ickworth near Bury. 



Extract of letter from Mrs. Astley to Miss Port, at Windsor. 

Kew, Nov. 4th, 1785. 

Their Majesties and the Princesses came here this 
morning ; they kindly inquired " how you were to 
amuse yourself in Mrs. Delany's absince," and upon her 
telling them that Mrs. Heberdine had oiferd to take 
you to the assembly, but that she had refused, not 
thinking it proper at this time, " Oh," says Princess 
Royal, " let her go, I will mention it to the Queen," 
which she did instantly, and you have her Majesty's 
permission to go; and the King says " he knows you 
will be discreet, and not overheat yourself in dancing' 9 
Oh how I should like to be a mouse in a corner when 
you are there. I hope poor Susan will be well that 
she may assist in dressing you for the ball. I am quite 
uneasy to know how she does. 

There is a talk that we dont return till Thursday 
next, on account of Princess Augusta's birthday, but I 



OF MRS, DELANY. 409 

think it not unlikely 1 may appear before you on 
Tuesday morning, most likely before you are out of 
bed. Mrs. Delany lias gone to pay a visit to Lady 
Willoughby de Broke this morning ; she is in charming 

spirits, and lias had a very good night. I am just re- 
turned from the Lodge, where I have been to inquire 
after Miss Burney, but found her gone to spend the day 
with her father. J low good and kind of the Queen to 
give her this permission! but I wanted to talk to her 
about Sally, that I might settle the matter with the poor 
girl when I go to town on Monday ; but I have a great 
notion she don't mean to change till her favorite Nanny 
is at liberty. The mourning is not to be put on till 
Friday. 

Mis. Delany is returned from Lady Willoughby, 
and called on Lady Tweedale ; she was airing. 



Miss Emelia Clayton to Miss Port. 

Audley End, Nov. 10th, 1786. 

My dearest Georgiana, 

Knowing the very kind interest you and dear 
Mrs. Delany take in all owe joys and griefs, I cannot but 
inform you, (that you may think of us at the moment,) 
that my dear Marianne is certainly to be married on 
Tuesday next between 8 and 9. I dare not say what I 
feel at thinking I have but 3 days more with her, tho' 
I must confess that every moment's knowledge of dear 
Colonel Fox l makes me the more rejoice that she will 



1 Col. the Hon. Henry Edward Fox, third son of Henry Fox, Lord 

Holland, and brother of the Hon. Charles James Fox, married, 14th Nov., 

Marianne, daughter of William Clayton, Esq., by his second wife, 

Caroline Mary, daughter of Rice Lloyd, Esq., of Allt y Cadno, co. 

Carmarthen, South Wales. 

PART II. — VOL. III. 2 E 



410 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

possess (I really believe) every earthly blessing. I 
never thought till I knew him, I could ever be satisfied 
with my Marianne's husband ; but indeed I am so now 
(perfectly,) and I cannot think of a wish to form for her 
that I am not almost sure she will enjoy. You must 
excuse my saying so much about them, but my heart is 
too full of them to think of any thing else ! Marianne 
desires I would assure you how very dearly she loves 
you, and how happy she shall always be to see you 
when she comes to Windsor. She often talks of 
you, dearest Georgiana, and joins with me in your 
praise. 

How good the Princesses are ! don't forget to pre- 
sent my most affectionate duty to them. I make a visit 
every day to the King's picture ; that is the only thing 
I realy thoroughly envied in my life, but I must own 
I feel quite angry that any body but myself should pos- 
sess such a treasure. You will allow this to be a very 
airniable sensation ! Col. Fox, who is just come in, 
desires I would not forget to present his compliments 
to Mrs. Delany and yourself, and to make you give him 
a corner in your heart, I must tell you that he never 
mentions the name of Mrs. Delany without the greatest 
admiration and respect. 

The next letter you write to me will be to " Miss 
Clayton;'' it gives me such a quirl, I can hardly hold 
my pen, but believe, whilst I have the use of my hands, 
it will ever assure you with great truth of the sincere 
friendship of 

Y r affec te and faithful 

Emelta A. Clayton. 



OF BIBS. DBLANY. 411 

Can you any how tell me if Mr. and Mrs. Conway 
arc returned, or when they are expected? 

Lord and Lady Howard are gone to town this morn- 
ing for poor Pss Amelia's funeral. 1 She is one of the 
pall-bearers, and (as they never, if possible, separate) we 
are left in full possession of the house. 



Miss Clayton to Miss Port. 

Tuesday, 14th Nov., 1786 

My dearest Georgiana, 

As you insisted upon it, I am set down to give 
you a full and long account of my dear Marianne's mar- 
riage, which was performed this morning at half past 8. 

We all were in the Galcry at that time, except her- 
self, who Miss Yates and I was to go for, and lead her 
in. Her dress was a silver muslin night-gown trimmed 
with white sattin, a very fine sprigged muslin apron, 
and hankerchief trimmed with beautiful lace, and white 
and silver shoes ; a blue ennamelled beautiful watch, 
a present of Lady Howard, a pair of bracelets I gave 
her, and a diamond ring L d Howard gave her. Colonel 
Fox was in a dark green coat, with a very pretty 
waistcoat, (she net Mm). Mama was in a French grey 
silk, with a white hat, &c. Lady Howard ia pale blue 
with brown ribbans. 

Lady Yates in a iron decide' sattin with blue. Mrs. 
Clayton in a French grey Irish stuff with pink. Miss 
Yates and I were exactly alike, in white muslins and 



1 The Princess Amelia, second daughter of George II., was buried on the 
1] th of Nov., 17b(J, in the royal vault in Henry VII. 's Chapel, Westminster 
Abbey. 

2 e 2 



412 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

handkerchiefs trimmed with lace, and blue sattin rib- 
bans. Lord Howard was in dark blue, my b ri in 
brown, Mr. Neville 2 in dark blue, and the Bishop, Mr. 
Hayes, and Mr. Gretton in black. 

It is impossible to express what I felt holding her 
dear trembling hand when I lead her up the gallery. 
Her heart seemed quite to sink at first, till we reminded 
her, how bad a compliment it would be to him, then she 
commanded herself vastly well, and was, as she always 
is, just what she ought to be. Lord Howard led her into 
the chapel, Charlotte and I followed, then Mama and 
Lady Howard, Lady Yates and Mrs. Clayton. How 
the gentlemen came I don't know. The two bridemaids 
stood in a line with her, Colonel Fox, and my brother, 
who gave her away ; the rest all stood behind. 

What a variety of sensations I felt during the cere- 
mony ! surely nothing can be so awfull ? sweet angel, 
God Almighty grant it may be for her eternal happi- 
ness ! She trembled, and had her eyes quite full, 
but she did not cry, and I assure you we all behaved 
vastly well ; for there was no crying to be heard, tho' 
I am afraid it might be seen. It was serious, but not 
distressingly so. 

He had his eyes quite full also, and looked agitated, 
which was just what I wished. We w r ere all a little 



1 William, eldest son of William Clayton, Esq., by his second wife, 
Caroline Mary, daughter of Rice Lloyd, Esq. He married, in July, 1785, 
Mary, only daughter of Sir William East, Bart., and succeeded to the 
Baronetcy on the death of his cousin, Sir Robert Clayton, in 1799. 

2 Richard Aid worth Neville, only son of Richard Neville Aldworth, Esq. 
Mr. Neville succeeded, in 1797, to the Barony of Braybrooke, on the death 
of his kinsman, John, 1st Baron of Braybrooke, and 4th Baron Howard de 
Walden. 



OF UBS. DELAJTT. -113 

overcome when we congratulated, and everybody 
seemed to have their hearts too full to speak; I thought 
mine would have broke, but I was happy enough to 
command myself,-much more, indeed, than T expected 
She was all affection and tenderness, and yet so perfectly 
happy, that it prevented her feeling what I do, that of 
being separated from so angelic a creature. After hav- 
ing signed our names as witnesses, we went to break- 
fest, which Mas vast 1 v pretty. She quite recovered her 
flurry, and was quietly ehearful, as were the rest of the 
party. Mama and I then went with her whilst she un- 
dressed and put on a great coat for travelling. At half 
past ten I parted from the dearest friend and best sister 
anybody ever was blessed with ; 'twas then, and is still 
my dearest Georgians, almost more than I can bear 
to think of; but think what I have lost, and then tell 
me if I am unreasonable ? She realy was my second self 
kru w every thought I had, she was interested in all 
my feelings, helped me out of any little difficultys, and 
rejoiced in all my pleasures. Her constant angelic 
temper, good sense, and prudence, made her the most 
delightful companion and adviser that any idea can 
form. 1 on will allow it is an irreparable loss, and what 
I must always feel with some degree of grief. Sweet, 
fcweet soul, but provided she is happy, I think I can 
BV< a have the courage to be rejoiced ; she is gone from 
Be, and yet when I think of her never again living 
with us, Oh ! Georgiana, I am almost distracted. I don't 
know what I write, and I believe I have contradicted 
byself ten thousand times ; my heart is too full to col- 
lect any thoughts— do pray excuse it !_ I forgot to put 
all the dear Eoyal Family's presents in her pockets, but 



414 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

she wore Princess Koyal's beautiful belt, and Princess 
Mary's dear necklace. 

Adieu ! excuse this Galimathias ; I "have not my senses 
about me.. Our kindest, best love to dear Mrs. Delany, 
and believe me ever 

Y r3 most faithfully, 

Emelia Anne Clayton. 



The Hon. Mrs. Fox to Miss Port. 

Nov. 23rd, 1786. 

My dear Miss Port, 

Allow me to return you my best thanks for 
your very kind letter ; pray assure dear Mrs. Delany, in 
Col. Fox's name, as well as mine, how truly grateful 
we are for the kindness she has shewn us, and for her 
acceptable congratulations ; he desires me also to give 
you his best comp ts . 

I flatter myself I may have a little peep of you at 
Windsor before we go to Exeter for the winter, which 
I assure you will make me very happy ! You can say 
nothing half kind enough for me to Mrs. Delany, and 
I might say the same for my dear Col. Fox, for if I 
could be jealous of anybody, it would be of her ! Adieu, 
my very dear Miss Port. Believe me to be, as I truly 
am, 

Your very affectionate friend, 

Marianne Fox. 



OF MRS, DELANY. 415 

Miss Clayton to Miss Pori t <U Windsor. 

Nov, (qy.) 178G. 

My dearest Georgiana, 

I cannot let my dearest Mrs. Fox write to you 
from here without inclosing a few Hues to you to thank 
you for your last kind letter and the intelligence you 
gave me about Mr. and Mrs. Conway, which I beg par- 
don for troubling you about; but Colonel Fox wanted 
to know. 

I am again happy in my Marianne's company. I have 
still one very anxious fear about poor dear Mrs. Clayton, 
who is extreemly ill with spasmodic convulsions on her 
lungs. My poor brother is almost distracted ; indeed I 
can conceive nothing that would be a greater blow to 
any body than her death would be to him, but I trust 
that with care she will recover. 

AVords can never express half my delight in being 
again with the best and most aimiable of sisters. I 
wish you could see her ; for I think you would admire 
her as much in the character of a wife as in that of a 
daughter, and as he is really the man in the world most 
calculated to make her happy, and of course to delight 
her friends, imagine how well 1 must love him, indeed 
I feel him to be quite a brother. 

My dear friend, how happy I shall be to see you 
again : exclusive of the delight I have always ex- 
perienced in your conversation, 1 know you will let me 
talk to you about the second dearest object of my heart 
as much as I like, and without being tired of it. 

I am very much flattered by Mr. D ewes' s remem- 
brance of me. Fray make him my compliments, and 



416 LIFE AND COEEESPONDENCE 

assure him his great complaisance in giving away his 
waistcoat is not lost upon me. I am afraid he will have 
left you before the L6th of next month, which is the 
first day we think of being at Windsor, — we leave this 
place on Fryday with Col. and Mrs. Fox, and spend a 
fortnight at Bromley, which exactly brings it to that 
day. I hope, my dear Georgiana, it is not necessary to 
repeat how happy I shall be to see you, tho' I am so 
overjoyed with being again with my darling Mari- 
anne ; but think then of poor " Meelie" separated the 
whole winter near two hundred miles from her ! but — / 
must not think. 



The Hon. Horace Walpole to Mrs. Delany, with the New Edition of his ] \ 
" Anecdotes of Painting." 

Berkley Square, London. 
Xov r 28^, 1786. 

Mr. Walpole having been called upon for a new 
edition of y e Anecdotes on Painting, coud not in a 
history of English arts resist y e agreable occasion of 
doing justice to one who has founded a new branch. 
He hopes therefore y* Mrs. Delany will forgive the 
liberty he has taken of recording her name in vol. 2, 
p. 242, and y 1 she will please to consider how cruel it 
w d have been for him to be denied y e satisfaction of 
mentioning her only because he has y e honor and happiness 
of her acquaintance. 

Mrs. Delany to the Hon. Horace Walpole. 

Windsor, Novr 30th, 1786. 

Mrs. Delany presents her comp ts to Mr. Walpole, and 
her acknowledgements for y e very kind and acceptable 



OF MRS. DELANT. 117 

presenl he has made her (w** she receive'd last night) 
of his New Edition of his Anecdotes on Painting — nor 
fa she insensible of y 6 honor dour her in mentioning her 

Dame in so ingenious and valuable a work w tt so much 
delicacy as to reconcile her to a publication that w <l have 
hem rather painful from any other hand. 

The notice to which Mrs. Pelany alludes, in the present letter 
to Horace Walpole, appeared in his "Anecdotes of Painters," in 
which he mentions the Duchess of Portland's purchase of the 
"exquisite " picture of Petitot by himself, and says that the 
Duchess of Portland, at her death in 1785, bequeathed it to her 
friend, Mrs. Delany, who "was a lady of excellent sense and 
taste, who painted in oil, and who at the age of 74 invented 
the art of paper mosaic, with which material (coloured) she 
executed, in eight years, within 20 of 1000 various flowers and 
flowering shrubs with a precision and truth unparalleled!' 



TJie Hon. Mrs. Boscaiuen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, 28th Nov., 178G. 

I cou'd not so long have neglected to acknowledge 
your last kind letter, my dear madam, if I had not been 
in great distress. When I tell you that I have lost my 
excellent old servant Keeble, who had lived with me 
ever since the year 50, you will know I have been in 
trouble — indeed it was great because of her extreme 
suffering which no aid from the skilful physician who 
was used to attend her in these severe seizures could 
alleviate, and she lay 18 days! I stay'd with her at 
Glan Villa till her eyes were clos'd for ever, and then 
I remov'd hastily to these winter quarters, where, how- 
ever, I am as yet only encamp'd, having left most of 



418 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

my family behind, so that I am very unsettled as yet, 
and very uncomfortable, but have now the cordial of 
my children's company. The Duke and Duchess of 
Beaufort are arrived to present their sons to their 
Majesties, before they set out on their travels, and will 
stay the remainder of this week. Mrs. Leveson also 
comes to day for the winter, and my son we fancy 
upon the road on account of the decease of the Dowager 
Lady F., 1 who departed sitting in her chair last Thurs- 
day. Your last bill of health was very satisfactory, 
and your visit at Kew must have been very pleasant, as 
you had the comfort to find her Eoyal Highness so much 
better, whose health I hope continues and improves daily. 
I have seen nobody as yet but Lord and Lady Mount 
Edgecumbe, who are just arrived, and Mr. Cole, who, 
knowing how great my loss is, came very kindly to sit 
the evening with me on my arrival. Have you any 
thoughts of coming among us, my dear madam ? Wher- 
ever you are, my best wishes are with you. Commend 

me to the fair niece. 

F. B. 



TJie Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, 30th Nov., 1786. 

My dear Madam, 

I wrote to you lately, and told you the great 
distress I had been in, from the extreme sufferings of 
my poor servant, and the great loss I had sustain'd. 1 
do not flatter myself it can be repair'd, but I wish to 



1 Falmouth. — Hannah Catharina Maria, Dowager Viscountess Falmouth, 



died Nov. 23rd, 1786. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 419 

gei a sober, creditable person of good sense, tho' she 
cannot have the same attachment to me as the poor 
woman who had liv'd with me from her youth. 

I have one who offers herself, who is sister to Mrs. 
Chambers that was housekeeper at Bulstrodo I re^ 
member, (many years, I believe,) and tho' sisters do not 
always resemble eaeli other, yet methinks it wou'd be 
a satisfaction to me to know your opinion of that Mrs. 
Chambers who had the honour to serve our dear 
lamented friend. The Mrs. Chambers who offers her- 
self to me is a Scotch woman I perceive by her speech, 
and says her sister is marry 'd in Scotland. 

I doubt you are in great care for the Duke of Port- 
land and his family, who seem alass ! at the eve of a 
bitter affliction and loss ! But I hope I am mis- 
inform'd. 

Mrs. Yesey was here yesterday ; better, I think, and 
younger than last year. She told me Mrs. Dickenson 
wou'd lay in soon. Mrs. Leveson arriv'd yesterday, 
and I was more surprized than pleas'd to find that she 
will increase the number of your cousins in the course 
of the spring. Mr. and Mrs. Jenyns are come, and ever 
blooming ! The Bishop of Exeter is also arriv'd ; and 
to day I had the pleasure to see that Lady Bute's win- 
dows were cleaning I I sent immediately cross the way 
— and was informed that her ladyship was expected 
next week. 

I do not know any news but that London hours are 
strange things ! I am now starving in expectation of my 
son to dine with me, for he came last night without his 
family. However, like a loyal subject as he is, he went 
to pay his duty at court, and perhaps the Drawing is 
very full ! F. Boscawen. 



420 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



TJie Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, ye ist D ec ., i 78 g # 

My dear Madam, 
% You will be surprised with a second visit, follow- 

ing so close on the first from hence, but yesterday very 
rashly I said something that express'd great alarm for 
your friends in Burlington House, (which indeed I had 
heard was troubled,) and therefore spoke, (for " Out of 
the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh) " but 
how glad I am to speak quite a different language to- 
day. 1 find that the story I heard yesterday was 
only a very tardy echo ; to-day I sent a trusty person 
to the porter at Burlington House, who said that her 
Grace had had 3 or 4 very good nights successively, 
and was almost well ; as I was so inconsiderate to 
repeat (from others) different intelligence. I determin'd 
to write again more welcome authentic information, 
that this may be ready for my son when he comes to 
dinner, w ch I do hope will be soon, for I am very hungry ! 
I visited Mrs. Chapone this morning, and found her 
better than usual. I shou'd have proceeded to Mrs. 
Sandford, but heavy rain said, " Go home for shamed 
and I did, and then Lady Lucan x came to see me, and 
shew'd me an amazing copy she had taken of a minia- 
ture S r Joshua had lent her — a Cooper. F. B. 



1 Margaret, d. and h. of J. Smith, of Canons-Leigh, Esq., Devon, m., 
1760, Sir Charles Bingham, 7th Bart., created Baron Lucan in 1776, and 
Earl of Lucan in 1795. She d. Feb. 27, 1815. Repeated references are 
made to Lady Lucan in Horace Walpole's Letters. Mrs. Delany used to 
admire and wonder at her talent for painting, and yet her want of eye for 
drawing, as she would often totally mistake the distance between one 
feature and another (till it was pointed out to her), and yet imitate colour- 
ing and finishing to perfection. 



OP MRS. DELANY, 421 

Miss Clayton to Miss Port s at Windsor, 

Bromley House, Dec. 8th, 1786. 
The friendship you have ever Bhewn me, encourages 
me to hope you will forgive the liberty I take in inform- 
ing you of the scandalous reports that are spread about 
von. Never did I hear the like; but as in the whole 
course of my acquaintance with you, I have never seen 
■ thing that was not as it ought to be, I am willing to 
believe your faults are exagerated! First then, I hear 
that whilst Mrs. Delany was at Kew, you, instead of 
staying at home, and taking care of her household 
effects, went to assembly's, &c. ; that you (not con- 
tented with that), wish'd to go to every card party, 
(those chearful agreeable meetings for young people in 
particular,) and that in spite of your philosophy, you 
cannot help being sulky and pouting every Monday 
night ! that you squander away your money in buying 
ribbans to trim your gowns, and then slam the doors 
in the Kings face I in short, I am assured you are an 
altered person : is it possible ? I can hardly believe 
it. / went also to an assembly at Bromley, where I was 
extreemly entertained, and will own to you, that for a 
moment, I thought with sorrow, I should not be allowed 
to go to those at Windsor ; but that thought was in- 
stantly banished by a then much more pleasing one to 
nn' — that of spending quiet, domestick evenings with 
my once quiet Georgiana, and talking of, and endeavour- 
ing to be like my own Marianne ! but this is a pleasure 
I now find I am not to enjoy, as if I am lucky enough 
to find Miss Port disengaged, I am told she can bear 
no other conversation but that of amusements! It is 



422 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

not easy to make me believe my friends are in th< 
wrong, and therefore I am still willing to hear an( 
receive your excuses, but without which I must say, 
my ever dear Georgiana is still the same to Emily I Now 
badinage apart, I do realy think you are just the same 
as I left you, and let me hear from you immediately, to 
quite convince me that I am in the right. I must add, 
that at the same time I heard these cruel aspersions, I 
was told, that you said " you only wanted me to make 
you quite comfortable" which did a little melt my hard 
heart. 

And now, having finished my lecture, I must tell you 
in plain English, I love you better every moment, and as an 
instance of the truth of my good-nature, I have been en- 
joying all the time I wrote this the fright the beginning of 
my letter will have put you in ! do let me know if you 
could imagine, at first, what I was so angry about ? Pray 
how does Mrs. Delany do ? You are very good about 
dear Mrs. Clayton : she is better I hope, tho' still very 
ill ; and I hear it is impossible to say how much care is 
necessary to get her tolerably well. To-morrow dear 
Col. and Mrs. Fox come, to stay till Monday, (what a 
treat !) and on Fry day, I hope to be in the same town 
with my dear, riotous Georgiana : need I say how over- 
joyed I shall be to see her again, tho' so different a 
creature ! but I love to teaze. 

We have had charming accounts of my dear George. 
He is now at Dresden, which he finds vastly pleasant, 
and likes a great deal better than Anspach. I hope 
that your brother behaved as you wished him at Rugby, 
where I was quite sorry to hear there had been a re- 
bellion. 



OF MKS. I'I'I.AXY. 423 

How do the dear Princesses do? and Windsor and 
»"? you never write me any Windsor news, and vei 
I like to hearal] [ can about ttat dear place : and don'1 
pretend to tell me you don't know any, for I know you 
do. I really lake it very unkind, and so I shall write 
you no more than to assure you, you still Lave an affec- 
tionate and faithful friend commonly called 

Emelia A. Clayton. 

When you see Princess Sophia, tell H. R. H. with my 
affectionate duty, I hope she received my letter in 
answer to the very dear and gracious one she did me 
the honor of writing on Marianne's marriage. Pray 
aUo give my affec" duty to Pss Mary 



n e Countess of Stamford to Mrs. Delany. 

Emit, Dec. ye gth, 178G _ 

My dearest Friend, Satim,ay - 

I am more obliged to you than I can express for 
giving me the pleasure of hearing from you, and for 
the very comfortable account you have been so good to 
send me of your own health and welfare. They are, 
and ever must be, dear to me, and therefore you will 
judge of the satisfaction I have received from your 
letter. Your flights to Kew would hardly have been 
creditted by me, if they had not come from your pen. 
Indeed, I am very glad you were able to obey the Royal 
friendly command, and I do not doubt that the 
pleasure you received was of infinite service to you. I 



424 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

am most sincerely glad to hear that the Princess Eliza- 
beth is so much recovered ; I hope she will not have 
any return of her complaint. I am much pleased with 
your account of your dear Miss Port, but not sur- 
prised in the least, that a pupil of my ever dear and 
respected friend, Mrs. Delany, should be " capable of 
amusing herself when alone /" and it is surely one of the 
greatest blessings to be able to keep the mind con- 
stantly employed ? 

I must now answer your very kind enquiry after all 
my dear flock, but they are so numerous, you will have a 
long chapter to go through upon their subject. My 
dear Harriet and her j>recious child are as well as I can 
wish, and no mother was ever more happy, I bless God, 
than she is. It is a lovely infant, and thrives as fast as 
possible. I wish I could say that our dear Sir John 
Chetwode was as well as they are ; but alas ! we cannot 
have complete happiness in this world. His health is 
extremely delicate, with an unfortunate hereditary right 
to a consumption, which keeps me in a constant state 
of anxiety upon his account ! but I trust, with great 
care he may (if it pleases God) in a few years grow 
stronger, for he is very young, and I must add a very 
affectionate good creature, as can be. My ever dear 
Lord Grey is now abroad. The last letters we received 
from him (which was the other day) were dated from 
Rouen. He was perfectly well, and is much pleased 
with the country he has seen. We have been parti- 
cularly fortunate in meeting with a gentleman to accom- 
pany him on his travels, who has a most remarkable 
good character, and is a very sensible worthy man ; his 
name is Pidou. He is nephew to the famous Dr. 



OF MBS. DELANY. 425 

Tissot. 1 The rest of my dear children (in number 

/) are now all al home, and making us very happy ; 
my dear boys are just come from school, looking as 
rosy and as happy as it is possible. 

I am extremely glad to hear Mr. Dewes is well, and 
tliat your accounts of Mr. Bernard Dewes are satisfactory. 
I hope he will receive all the benefit that can be wished 
from the Hath waters. I conclude you have had the 
pleasure of a visit from our valuable friend, L y Bute, 
and I flatter myself you found her as much recruited in 
her health and strength as you could wish. I have 
had the satisfaction to hear very good accounts of her 
very lately. 

I am realy ashamed of the length of my letter, but 
my pen and thoughts run on together insensibly, as 
I am afraid you have often experienced that my 
tongue has done the same when I have had the 
happiness of being with you. You are very kind, 
my dear friend, to wish to meet me in London. I 
do not imagine that we shall visit the metropolis 
before the month of February ; but this truth let me 
request you to believe, that wherever I am, my most 
ardent wishes for your happiness can never fail to 
attend on you, and all those dear to you. My 
Lord and my girls unite most cordially with me 
in these wishes, and beg you will also accept their 
best respects and love. The girls desire to be kindly 



1 Simon Andrew Tissot, an eminent physician and medical writer, born 
in the Pays de Vaud in 1728, died at Lausanne in 1797. He was chiefly 
distinguished by his successful treatment of the confluent small-pox, and 
wrote several professional works. 

PART IT. — VOL. III. 2 F 



426 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 






remember' cl to Miss Port. I am, with the greatest 
esteem, my dearest friend, 

Your ever affectionate and obliged, 

H. C. Stamford. 



TJie Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Dclany. 

Audley Street, ye 23rd Dec., 1786. 

My dear Madam, 

I am much concern' d to find your severe cold 
has continu'd so long, for I had flatter' d myself, by 
Lady Bute's report of you, that you had got the 
better of it long ago. This weather requires care 
and precaution, and I have the comfort to think that 
were you inclin'd to be indiscreet, there are high powers, 
from whose kindness, which is equal even to their au- 
thority, there can be no appeal, and they will command 
you to take care of yourself. Thus guarded and pro- 
tected, I hope you will have a very pleasant Christmas 
and a very happy New Year. According to my earnest 
wishes God grant many to those who make yours so ! 

I had a letter from Miss Sayer just before she left 
Bath, w ch says, " She begs her respects to Mrs. Delany, 
with many thanks for the honour she did me to men- 
tion me to Mrs. Granville, 1 who was so obliging as to 
visit me this morning. I regret extremely being so 
little able to profit by her goodness, and Mrs. Delany's 
very flattering remembrance of me." She has since 
return'd to Richmond, her father much benefitted by 
his journey. 



Harriet Joan, daughter of John De la Bere, Esq., and wife of the Rev. 



OF Mi;s. DELANY. 427 

I hope Mr, Jerningham 'hassenl you his very pretty 
lines wrote in the album atCossey Hall. Be lias drawn 
I picture of his mother, w* you a\ ill think very like 
indeed. 

F. B. 



Mrs. Delany wrote to Mrs. Frances Hamilton, from Windsor, 
Poo. 25th, 1786 :— 

u I have had a visit from my nephew, Mr. Bernard 
Dewes, from Bath, where he was ordered for the re- 
ery of his health, and, I thank God, has found great 
benefit from it. He brought me a letter from Mrs. 
Preston 2 full of kindness, and wishing to see me. 
Whatever interruptions may have happened in the 
course of our long acquaintance, I never forget the 
happiness and cordial love I have ever borne to root and 
branch of that delightful society. 

" When Governor H. Hamilton made me a. visit here, 
he told me there was something in agitation for his 
establishment, and I hope it is accomplished, though I 
have heard no particulars about it. I believe (if report 
has not done it for me) you know nothing of my flights 
to Kew, which is about ten miles from this place. The 
Royal family once a fortnight take Kew in their way to 
London. They leave Windsor on Tuesday, and return 
on Saturday. Their Majesties were so gracious as to 
hint their wish for my spending some days at Kew when 



1 Edward, second son of Sir George and Lady Jerningham — who was 
painted spinning by Opie. 

- Mary, youngest daughter of the Hon. Henry Hamilton, son of Gustavus, 
Viscount P>ovne, m. in 1763 to Rev. Nathaniel Preston. 

2 f 2 



428 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

tliey were there, and to make it completely agreeable 
and commodious, engaged Mr. and Mrs. Smelt, who 
live there, to invite me to their house — a pleasure of 
itself y that would have given me wings for the under- 
taking. I availed myself of the command of the one, 
and the invitation of the other, and spent part of two 
weeks there. I think you can hardly be a stranger to 
the character of Mr. Smelt, a man that has the honour 
of being friend to the King, and who has testified to 
the world, by his disinterested and steady behaviour, 
how worthy he is of such a distinction. His character 
is of the most noble and delicate kind, and deserves the 
pen of a Clarendon to do justice to it. Mrs. Smelt is a 
very sensible, friendly, agreeable woman. Their house 
is convenient and elegant, situated upon the banks of the 
Thames, open to all its beauties, and guarded from all 
its inconveniences, and within a short walk from the 
Royal lodge. They were visited more than once a day 
by their Majesties or some of the Royal family, which 
pleasure I had the honour of partaking. We were 
appointed to dine every day at Miss Burney's table, at 
the Lodge. It is very magnificent, and the society very 
agreeable, of about eight or ten persons belonging to 
their Majesties. Coffee was ready about six o'clock ; 
about seven the King generally walked into the room, 
addressing everybody, and, after that, commanded me 
and Mrs. Smelt to follow him to the Queen's apartment, 
where we drank tea, and stayed till near ten o'clock. 
Princess Elizabeth, (who, I thank God, is now perfectly 
restored to health,) was not well enough at that time to 
make one of that society, so that her sisters took their 
turns to be with her. Ever since the last excursion I 



OF MRS, DELANY. 429 



made there the weather has been too bad for me to v 



en- 



tare again. 

M I have fixed my time for going to London the 12th 
of January." 



Mtsa Port to John Port, of lhim, Esq. 

Windsor, Dec. 28th, 1786. 

Company coming in prevented my wishing my dear 
papa and mania, and all the dear inhabitants of Ham, a 
merry Christmas (which my heart did) on the day, but 
I hope they will now accept it with my kind love. 

Mr. and Mrs. Smelt are here, as is the Bishop of 
Worcester, 1 who preached an admirable sermon on 
Christmas day. 

Princess Elizabeth, who removes to town for good on 
New Year's day, is very happy with the thoughts of the 
Birthday; doubly so, for she has obtained Sir George 
Baker's leave to dance. Colon 1 Goldsworthy goes out 
of waiting on Tuesday, when Col nl Grevill comes, who 
I do not know, as his waiting is chiefly in London ; but 
he is very much liked. We have had another running 
away. A Miss Sabin beg'd leave of her aunt (who is 
also her guardian) to go to London to see a sick friend, l 
which was agreed upon, but the next night, which w T as 
the appointed time for her return, no Miss Sabin ap- 
pear'd, and the person sent to take care of her returned 
and said "she had slipt from her;" and it has since 
\ ed she has gone off with an officer in the Marines. 

The Cathedral opens on Monday, as the middle win- 



1 Dr. Hard, Bishop of Worcester. 



430 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

dow and the picture of the Last Supper are put up. 
Jarvice 1 is now about the side ones. There is an 
angel, one of the principal figures, that is wonderfull, 
and seems to me to have the very expression an angel 
should have. The King is quite delighted with the 
whole. Mr. West has painted the Last Supper, as well 
as the design of the window, and has taken it in quite 
a different way to what it ever was painted before. 
A. D. has entirely lost her cold, but feels the effects of 
it by being weaker. She desires her kind love, and 
says her best wishes attend Ham at every season. 

G. M. A. P. 



The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Audley Street, 28th Dec, 1786. 

My dear Friend, 

I appear ungrateful, and have never thank'd you 
for my excellent pot of lampreys, I may venture to call 
it so, as it always is so, but I have not eat it, because I 
reserved it for this day, that I have a little Christmas 
feast for the Countess of Rothes, Lord Leslie, 2 and 
other relatives, for whom I shall open my pot of 
lampreys, and meantime return you thanks for them. 
Lady Bute is just gone, looking charming well, Lady 
Louisa is perfectly so, and my Lord I saw at our 



1 John Jarvis, born 1749, distinguished for his paintings on glass. His 
most celebrated performance was the west window of New College, Oxford, 
from the design of Sir Joshua Reynolds : d. 1804. The middle window at 
Windsor was painted by Jarvis, from West's picture of the Resurrection. 

2 George William, only child of the Countess of Rothes by her first 
marriage. In 1810, on his mother's death, he became 10th Earl of Rothes. 
The Countess m. 2ndly, Sir Lucas Pepys. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 431 

chapel last Sunday. On Christmas day I went to the 
Royal Chapel at St. James's, where I heard a delightful 
anthem, and some sweel voices. I conclude you are much 
gratified in that way at Windsor, and often entertain'd 
with fine musick, as well sacred as royal, and perhaps 
you will hardly allow those two epithets should ever be 
parted. Last night I was at Baron Alvenslaben's 
concert, w* I like very much, it is so early and so 
quiet. I was in luck too, in hearing my favourite song, 
•• Softly rise southern breeze, and gently fan my 
blooming trees." I fancy you must have heard Mr. 
Harrison 1 sing it, which he does in perfection. Miss 
A 1 »ram' 2 sang it last night. Last Saturday I was at a 
conceit at Mrs. Blair's, she sings very agreeably indeed. 
We had also Mrs. Billington, 8 and a pretty Miss 
Hamilton 4 dau r to a clergyman I have seen at your 
house, who is bro r to S r W m Hamilton ; the young lady 
has a fine clear strong voice, but I cannot say she 
pleas'd me so well as Mrs. Blair. 

My dear madam, I have at last seen y r worthy 

friend Mrs. Sandford. I waited on her the day before 

rday, and found her full as well as she ever is, and 

happy in the good state and condition of all her 4 sons. 

The sailor is particularly fortunate to have got in this 

1 " Harrison, a celebrated English tenor, the most finished singer of his 
age in the true aria cantabile." He died in 1812. 

- Miss Abram and her sister Theodosia were first heard in public at the 
Ancient Concerts in 1776. 

: * Mrs. Elizabeth Billington distinguished herself in childhood as a 
performer on the pianoforte, and appeared, in 1786, as a captivating singer. 
Her popularity remained undiminished to the close of her public career in 
She died in 1817. 

4 The Rev. Frederick Hamilton, second son of Lord Archibald Hamilton, 
and brother of Sir William Hamilton, Ambassador at Naples, had an only 
child and heiress, Elizabeth, who married, in 1777, John, 3rd Earl of 
Aldborough. 



432 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

time of peace the best of stations, in the best of ships 
for a young man, that is a good frigate ; and beside, an 
excellent captain, who had sent him to visit his mother 
during the holidays. Mr. and Mrs. Leveson are well 
at the Admiralty, and have let their house in Charles 
Street, w ch my son had left, to very good tenants ; viz. 
to Mr. and Mrs. Finch Hatton. The Duke and Dss of 
Beaufort are keeping an ancient Christmas at Bad- 
minton, L d and L y Falmouth and their little girl with 
them, and so I believe are Mr. and Mrs. Richard Master, 
but the eldest sons of that house will be miss'd when 
their Welsh harper strikes up I 1 They are at Bheims. I 
saw both Miss Murrays yesterday in Lincoln's Inn 
Fields, but can give you no good account of L d 
Mansfield, who gets no sleep. 

F. Boscawen. 
Kind complim ts to the fair niece. 



Miss Clayton to Miss Port, at Windsor. 
MY DEAREST GtEORGIANA, March 20th, 1 787. 

I received your dear little letter last night, 
when I was rather surprised at not having heard from 
you. I cannot help feeling sorry you are going to 
Warwickshire, as it is so far off — but pray tell me how 
long you stay, and send me your direction to Welsbourn. 
I can easily imagine, my dear friend, what you must 
feel at leaving dear Mrs. Delany ; parting with those 
you love is the most painful sensation we can feel, but 
let the idea of " whatever is is right ," reconcile you to it. 
Let me hear often from you, no distance can realy 



1 This proves that Henry, 5th Duke of Beaufort, still retained a Welsh 
harper in his establishment at Badminton, in continuation of the good old 
custom of his Welsh ancestors at Raglan Castle. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 433 

divide friends, and I shall always feel you are of the 
dearest. I hope von will write to me very soon after 
you get \o Welsbourn, for I shall long to know how 
you do. We are very happy to hear so good an 
account of Mrs. Delany, and hope she will continue 
well When does she think of coming to Windsor ? 
Our plan is now quite settled, and we are to meet my 
dear Marianne at llarlcyford the 11th of April, where 
we stay till the 20th, and then all come to town 
together. The dear Fox's stay a month, and we shall 
certainly stay till after the Birthday. 

I long to know if you stay long at Welsbourn, or 
whether I shall see you whilst I am in town. Your 
dear little canary is very well, and I love it so much I 
shall hardly know how to give it up ; it is so great a 
comfort to me now, for I feel it belongs to my dear 
Georgiana, and that you loved it, and have talked to it, 
and stroked it. Don't forget me, my dear friend, but 
let me hear very often from you, and let our frequent 
writing make up as much as possible for our separation ; 
tell me all you do, describe the place to me, and how the 
rooms are furnished that you sit in ; I shall not accept 
short letters, and en revanche you shall hear everything 
that I can tell you that is interesting to either of us, for 
I know what is to me is to you. I have just received a 
very kind invitation from Miss Burney, to drink tea 
with her to-night, which is a great pleasure to me ; 
for they are the sort of quiet sensible evenings that are 
still my favourites. Have you seen anything of the 
Ftildings 1 lately ? or of any of my family ? I am very 

1 " The Fieldings" — Sophia, daughter of the Hon. William Finch and 
Laly Charlotte Finch (who was Governess to the Princesses), married Capt. 



434 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

impatient to see them and you again, for I feel it a 
great while since. 

I never saw such weather, we are now sitting with 
the window open, and feel quite summery ; we went 
yesterday on the terrace to walk, but felt it so hot, we 
sat down much the greatest part of the time. Accept 
my dear mother's kind love, and remember us most 
affec tly to dear Mrs. Delany, and believe me 

Y r very afFec te and faithful 

Emelia A. Clayton. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Dickenson, 

(St. James's Place.) 
March 31st, 1787. 

My dear Mrs. Dickenson does me great injury if 
she thinks negligence has occasioned the silence she 
complains of. Indeed I am, I thank God, much 
better than I had reason to expect, yet far from 
being able to exert myself as I did before this 
late illness ; and have waited till I could assure you 
with truth of my amendment. I have not been able to 
dictate a line to Mr. Dewes since he left London a 
fortnight ago. You make me very happy with the 
account of my dear and agreable friends at the Bath, to 
all whom I beg you will do me justice. Next Monday 
Mr. Bernard Dewes carry s away my dear girl to Wels- 
bourn to meet her mother ! I have now began a course 
of taking the air ; but more than half-an-hour does not 

Charles Fielding, R.N., grandson of Basil, 4th Earl of Denbigh. She was 
Lady of the Bedchamber to Queen Charlotte, and had three daughters, 
(here called " the Feildings.") The eldest (Sophia) married Lord Robert 
Fitzgerald, son of the 1st Duke of Leinster ; Matilda died unmarried ; and 
Augusta married George Hicks, Esq., and died in 1858. 



OF MBS. DBLANY, 435 

do with me, and I languish after Windsor, and 
think I shall be betterthere. Believe me truly grateful 

to you and Mr. Dickenson for your kind solicitude 
about me, and mosl sincerely wish you many years of 
happiness, and that your dear child will day ly increase 

that happiness ; being most sincerely 



Your affectionate and obliged hum bl s* 



M. D. 



On the 3rd April, 1787, Mrs. Delany wrote to Mrs. F. Hamilton, 
from St. James's Place : — 

" Before this, my dear friend must have heard of the 
had state of health I have been in ever since the begin- 
ning of January. I came to town, with a very bad fever 
upon me the 10th of January, which fasting and twice 
bleeding did not conquer, though it abated enough for 
me to take the journey. I was then seized with a degree 
of putrid sore throat, at which I was not so much alarmed 
as those that were about me. That was succeeded by a 
violent defluxion, and the fever still continuing for near 
two months. I am now, though not so well as before 
tli is illness, better than I could have expected : I am 
rather weak than low. I ought not to repine at what 
I have suffered ; it was the will of God it should be 
so, and I am most truly sensible of many advantages 
from it, and my heart is full of gratitude — the most 
delightful of all sensations — for the tender and constant 
attention of the friends I value, from the highest to the 
lowest ! If I had strength of spirits to communicate to 
you the unremitting honours and favours I have re- 
ceived from my royal friends it would be a mutual 



! 






436 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

gratification to us both, but that I do not find myself 
equal to. 

" To convince you I am now in a fair way of doing well, 
I must tell you that Miss Port left me this morning to 
meet her mother at Welsbourn, but is to return to me 
in a fortnight or three weeks, at which time I have 
thoughts of settling at Windsor. Governor Hamilton 
is well, and I have been able to see him twice." 



Mrs. Delany to (Jier godson) Mr. Daniel Sandford. 
DfAR StR ^' J ames ' s Pl ace > April 26th, 1787. 

I am very much obliged to you for your kind 
inquiry after me, and I thank God I can assure you I 
am in tolerable health, tho' my strength and sleep still 
fail me ; but as the weather promises to mend, I hope I 
shall be able to go over to Windsor, from which I trust 
I shall receive great benefit, and will take the first 
opportunity that offers of answering your letter about 
the translation, which I think will be in the affirmative. 
It is with great satisfaction, I can assure you, your 
dear mother is very tolerably well. Astley saw her on 
Tuesday last, and she promised to make me a visit the 
beginning of next week. Your brothers are both well, 
and William such a beau that you would not think his 
time was dedicated to musty parchments. I am sure 
your absence is much lamented at Welsbourn. The 
absence of my dear girl begins to be insupportable to me, 
but she is to be delivered into my hands by the 21st or 
2 2d of May, by Mrs. Granville, so I look forward to that 
for comfort. 

If Mrs. Jebb is at Oxford, make her my kind compli- 



OF MRS. DELANT. 437 

"enteand tell her I had the pleasure of talking a great 
J»l about her with her amiable friend Lady Parker last 
Sunday night. 

I am, etc., 

M. D. 



^ 7t ^W wrote to Mrs. F. Hamilton, from Windsor, 

"lam infinitely obliged to you for your good intelli- 
gence of my few remaining friends in' Ireland, and for 
your good offices between mo and them, and beg their 
continuance ; but if I undertook to be particular upon a 
subject so dear to me, it would lead me beyond my 
trength Happy should I be could I comply with your 
agreeable request of relating all the marks of favour 
and .ncreasmg kindness I receive. They are indeed 
■n-.xpress.ble. I came here on Thursday the 10th, but 
their Majesties did not come to Windsor till the Satur- 
day following. They called upon me before they went 
■• .he,r own Lodge, accompanied by Princess Royal and 
I rmcess Amelia ; and it made my heart glad to see them 
look so well, and in such good spirits. I was not well 
enough to venture out in the evening, and had Lady 
and Lomsa Stewart, her daughter. On Sun 
*»J evening I was asked with them to drink tea at 
the Queen's Lodge, between seven and eight o'clock 
J here was no body wi th them but Lady Pembroke, 2 the 

'Mary, only daughter of Edward Wortley Jlouta<r„ Eso in,1 tl,„ , 

5£Hr >w VVortI - Montagu - -^ - ESsSftS; 



438 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Lady of the Bed-chamber in waiting, and though it was 
a circle of the most aweful nature, it was far from a pain- 
ful one. The gracious manners of their Majesties and the 
Princesses, made it perfectly easy and pleasant. I was 
dismissed as an invalid at nine o'clock ; but the truth 
was, I believe, the Queen had a mind to indulge me 
with an hour's conversation with Miss Burney, whose 
apartment is upon the same floor, and I had the happiness 
of finding her recovered from a long and dangerous ill- 
ness. And here I have a new field to expatiate upon, 
on the Queen's great goodness to her, whose attention 
to her has been that of a tender friend ; and Miss 
Burney now only wants time to restore her to strength 
and her happy occupation, 1 which she delights in. I 
have been able to obey their commands in attending 
them every day at the Lodge, till yesterday morning, 
when they went to London again, and I at present feel 
desolate ; but on Saturday next I hope to revive again, 
and on the Tuesday following, expect my neice Gran- 
ville, and my dear Mary Ann, 2 which, indeed, will be 
a great comfort to me." 



Mrs. Delany to Mr. Daniel Sandford, Christ Church College, Oxford. 

Windsor, May 20th, 1787. 

Dear, Sir, 

I came to Windsor on Thursday the 10th, and 
hope in time to find benefit from its pure air ; at present 
I cannot boast, and I am under a great perplexity to 

1 As one of the Queen's Dressers, Miss Burney seems to have impressed 
Mrs. Delany with the belief that she delighted in her office. 

2 Miss Port. 



OF MRS. PELANY. 439 

recoiled the contents of your last letter, regarding the 
translation, which I have mislaid. I must therefore beg 
of you to write me such a letter on the subjed as will be 
proper for me to shew the Queen, My memory begins to 
tail me as well as my eyesight, and therefore I will not 
attempt to repeat to Her Majesty what I fear I cannot, 
ectly recollect, and I should be sorry to lose any 
opportunity of doing you honour, and of testifying how 
much I am sincerely, 

Your affection* 8 friend and humble servant, 

M. D. 

P. S. I bad good accounts from Howland Street 
yesterday, I expect my dear girl on Monday next — 
th< it is to-morrow, 

Mr. Bernard Dewes wrote to Mrs. Anne Viney, from Hagley, 
3rd June, in this year, saying that not being well enough to take 
Miss Dewes to see Mrs. Delany and to hear one performance of 
the Abbey music, he has sent her to Windsor with her aunt 
Granville, who is gone to take her son to Eton. 



Mrs. Mee to Mrs. Anne Viney. 

June 10th, 1787. 

From your recommendation, I bave got Mrs. Bowdler's 
Poems and Essays, 1 and am deligbted with tbem. I 
flatter myself, I may now congratulate y r ou on the 
return of Mrs. Bull, who I hope is well. Did she go 
to the Abbey ? I hear the music there went off ex- 



1 Mrs. Harriet Bowdler wrote Poems and Es.says, in 2 Vols., which were 
published at Bath in 178G ; also "Practical Observations on the Revelation 
of St. John," and Sermons. 



440 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

tremely well, and your favorite composer was never in 
higher estimation. People come to the commemoration, 
not only from various places in the country, but many 
likewise from the Continent ; there was, I have heard 
fourteen thousand pound taken for tickets. It is sup- 
posed the town was never so full before, hardly a lodg- 
ing to be procured. Their Majesties took up their re- 
sidence at Kew during the time of the performances, 
and as you know Mrs. Delany's royal friends do not 
like to live a day without seeing her, they brought 
her up with them. On one of the days, when there 
was no music, the King went to Windsor. As he was 
walking on the terras, from which there is a short way 
to some of the apartments of the Castle, he thought he 
would go into Mrs. Delany's and he knock'd at a room 
door, " a young lady," (as the story was told me,) (I 
suppose Miss Port,) was sitting in the room, and said, 
" Who is there ?" A voice reply'd, " It is me" then said 
she, " Me may stay where he is ;" knock'd again, and she 
again said, " Who is there ?" The voice answered, " It is 
me" then said she, " Me is impertinent, and may go 
about his business ;" upon the knocking being repeated 
a third time, some person, who was with her, advised 
her to open the door, and see who it could be ? When, 
to her great astonishment, who should it be but the K. 
himself! All she could utter was, " What shall I say ?" 
" Nothing at all," said H. M., " you was very right to 
be cautious who you admitted," and no doubt it gave him 
more pleasure than if he had been received in any other 
way. If you have not had this anecdote, it will divert 
and please you, which is much my wish. 

Eliz. Mee. 



OF MRS. DELANY. HI 

Mn, (hrmvUU to Mn,V%ney y College, Gloucester. 

Mv DEAR MADAM, Galwioh, June 14th, 1787. 

As I flatter myself you feel an interest in your 
friends at Calwich, I will no longer delay informing 
you that we have fixed our dear boy l at school. 

Mr. Granville being prevented going from home, I 
undertook to settle him nryself. I spent a fortnight at 
Eton, and had the satisfaction of leaving him perfectly 
happy and contented. He has so many good friends 
there, I doubt not he will continue to like it. Mrs. 
Delany was at Windsor. I spent some part of every 
day with her. I think she is a good deal broke since 
her last illness, but considering her age, is still wonder- 
fully well, and I don't think either her hearing or her eye- 
sight is worse than when I saw her a year and a half 
ago. I took up Miss Port at Wellesbourne, and re- 
stored her again to Mrs. Delany, — indeed she had only 
lent her for a time. Little Nanny 2 I also took to see 
her aunt. Mrs. Delany did not go to the meeting at 
the Abbey this year ; but she lent me her house in St. 
James's Place, and Miss Port and I went the second 
day, which was the Messiah, and indeed it fully an- 
swered every grand idea I had formed of it. In about 
a fortnight our Calwich party adjourns to Wellesbourne, 
where I slept a night on my way up and down from 
Eton. We shall stay at Wellesbourne near a month, 
and return here again till December. 

Harriet Joan Granville. 



1 John, only son of Mr. and Mrs. Granville. 

2 Anne, only daughter of Bernard Dewes, Esq., and his wife, Anne 
De la Bere, sister of Mrs. Granville. 

PART II. — VOL. III. 2 G 



442 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Miss Clayton to Miss Port. 
MY DEAREST GEORGIANA, Audley End, June 17th, 1787. 

The constant hurry I have been in ever since I 
had the happiness of getting that little peep of you has 
really with truth prevented my finding time to write 
to you. 

In letters from Windsor to-day I am sorry to find 
dear Mrs. Delany is so low, but hope it will soon go off 
again. How I long to be at Windsor and helping you to 
nurse her ! but, alass, I fear that time is not near ! We 
have not heard anything of poor Lady Cremorne, 1 and 
of course do not know how long our stay will be here 
or anything about our plans, which is thoroughly un- 
comfortable, but as I cannot help it I had much better 
not complain of it. 

I am anxious to hear again from Windsor, how the 
two dear Pss 68 are ? and trust both their disorders will 
be removed by a little care ; but I grieve that any of 
that dear family should ever feel anything that is not 
pleasant. We are quite alone here at present, but have 
had Lord Huutingdon, 2 Lord Kawdon, 3 Mr. Ryder, and 
Mr. and Mrs. Hatsch. (?) When the weather has been 
fine enough we have drank tea in the Elysian Garden 
(which you have often heard me speak of), with two 
French horns playing all the time, which was delight- 



1 Lady Cremorne was sister to Lady Louisa Clayton. 

2 Francis, 10th Earl of Huntingdon. He died, s. p., 2nd Oct., 1789. 

3 Francis, eldest son of John, 1st Earl of Moira, was created Baron 
Rawdon in 1783. On the death of his father, in 1793, he succeeded to 
the Earldom of Moira; and on the death of his mother, in 1800, to the 
ancient Baronies of Hastings, Hungerford, &c. He m., 1804, Flora Muir 
Campbell, Countess of Loudoun in her own right, and was created, in 
1816, Viscount Loudoun, Earl of Rawdon, and Marquis of Hastings. He 
died 1836. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 4-13 

ful. Sometimes we drive, and sometimes walk, but 
to-day it is so very sharp / hope w r e shall do neither, 
for you know what a frog I am, and I am quite shiver- 
ing at this moment. Perhaps you are sitting by the 
kitchen ji re, for I think if possible you rather outdo me. 

I spent a most delightful time at St. Albans ; the 
weather was warm enough, and we set out in her 
pretty garden whilst she read to us. I met Miss Poyntz 
there, who is very pleasing, and is so amiable she seems 
as if she would make up for their disappointment in 
Mrs. Townshend. 1 

I make a visit to the King and Queen here every 
day, which is one of my greatest pleasures ; and I 
really think one grows the better for having the frames 
of two such souls to contemplate ; at least I know / 
never look at their pictures without thinking of their 
goodness and wishing to be like them. Oh ! how I long 
to see themselves again ! and almost envy you that happi- 
ness. Pray, if you have a proper opportunity, give my 
duty to their dear Royal Highnesses, and remember to 
tell me if ever they speak of me, but don't invent it if 
they don't, for I promise not to be affronted. 

I shall be very much obliged to you to send the 
enclosed to Sophia 2 whenever it is. convenient. She 
wrote me a sweet kind letter, as she had heard I was ill. 
I had the day I came out of town a most violent inces- 
sant cough, which I fancy strained me and has since 
given me a pain on my chest, but it is vastly better, and 



1 The Hon. John Townshend, second son of George, 4th Viscount 
(afterwards Marquis) Townshend, married, 10th April, 1787, Georgiana 
Anne, daughter of William Poyntz, of Midgham, Esq., Berks. 

2 Sophia Charlotte Feilding, m. Lord llobert Fitzgerald. 

2 g 2 



44i LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

I am sure Windsor air would quite cure it. How foolish 
I am to hanker after unattainable pleasures ! but I can- 
not help it, for do all I can, Windsor will still be in my 
thoughts, and I cannot get it out ! but I will go away 
from it now I am determined, and tell you our accounts 
from Dresden are delightfully frequent and satisfactory. 
He is vastly happy and pleased there. My other child 
too, at Plymouth, is, thank God, charmingly well and 
comfortably lodged there in the barracks, which are 
very good and gives her the delight of a garden, which 
always was one of her greatest pleasures. I long to 
see mine again, and all my greenhouse plants, and all 
my comforts. You see it does not signify, for I cannot 
touch upon any subject that does not bring me back to 
dear Windsor, except one, which is, thinking how far off 
and how long we shall be from it ! How many pieces 
at this moment I would cut myself into if they would 
but be so civil as to live separate ; but they are so very 
affectionate there is no dividing them ! 

I never felt the pleasures of the country so thoroughly 
as I did this year, coming out of that fusty London ; 
not but that I allow I was vastly pleased and enter- 
tained the whole time I was there, tho' I think I can 
answer for it that if my mother or any body else was 
to tell me at this moment that I was never to see it 
again, or have any of the amusements any more, I 
should not for an instant feel sorry or even disap- 
pointed ; but at the same time I enjoyed it when I was 
there, and can think with pleasure of going there 
again next year. I was better pleased with Court, 
Texiers, and the opera than any thing else I was at. 
I think the Court is the best assembly one can be at 



OF MBS, DELAN7. ! t5 

(putting out of the question the delight of seeing Them), 
and without the heal or glare of candles. I cannot say 
there were not the two latter at Texiers and the opera, 
but there is nothing I like so well as hearing French 
read well, and particularly good French plays. The 
opera I think a beautiful spectacle; I am vastly fond of 
the kind of musick, and I understand Italian enough to 
know what they are about. 

Emelia A. Clayton. 



Mrs. Ddany to Mr. Daniel Sandfoi'd, 1 Christ Church, Oxford. 
DEAR SlR, Windsor, June 18th, 1787. 

I should not have been so long without giving 
you some account of what you intrusted me with, but 
that I really have not been well enough to see my best 
of friends : yesterday was the first day of that in- 
dulgence. Her Majesty made me a visit of two hours, 
by herself, and desired me to assure you she was per- 
fectly satisfied with the translation, and agrees with 
you in everything you say about it in your letter to 
me, and wishes you to pursue the work in the manner 
you propose doing it. Her Majesty brought me back 
the specimen you had sent, with an apology for having 
kept it so long. She seemed to wish to keep it, or to 
have a copy of it. I took upon me to say that she 
might command it if she had any desire to retain it ; 
but if you want it I am to let her know, so let me hear 
from you as soon as you can. 

I have had a comfortable long letter from your dear 



1 Mr. Daniel Sandford, godson of Mrs. Delany, and afterwards Bishop of 
Edinburgh. 



446 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

mother. I thank God I am now much better than I 
have been, and the return of your old friend and play- 
fellow, Miss Port, will do me as much good as the sum- 
mer season, which now seems to be come to us in good 
earnest. I am still too weak to dictate much, and am 
forced to live very cuatiously and quietly. This morn- 
ing, for the first time, I ventured to early prayers. So 
now adieu, my dear Danny. 

Believe me most sincerely your 

Affectionate friend and humble serv', 

M. D. 

Miss Port sends her best wishes and compliments. 



Miss Clayton to Miss Port. 

Audley End, July 1st, 1787. 

I am sat down to write again to my dear Georgiana. 
Here I am quite a young woman by myself till Thurs- 
day, when I shall have the happiness of being again 
under my dear mama's wing. I feel very odd and un- 
comfortable without her, as indeed I did the last time, 
which was when I was at Bromley two years ago. But 
every day makes me more sensible of the happiness 
and advantage of belonging to her ! I am longing for 
Thursday, tho' I am vastly happy here, and this delight- 
ful weather is quite enchanting : we are out all the 
evenings, and spend the mornings in working and read- 
ing in a room 56 feet long, so it is cool enough ! I go 
every day to make a visit to their Majesties, who honor 
me with a smile always, but never speak, tho' I do to 
them, which I think is using me very crookedly. 



OF MB& DELANT. 1 IT 

What would I give that this should be the last letter 
1 write you, but I am totally in the dark, and cannot 
give a guess when I am likely to see you, for my 
mother will not leave Chelsea ' whilst the poor dear 
inhabitants have a wish for her to stay, which in my 
place would be for ever. I am very often obliged to tell 
myself all is for the best, for I am indeed very very im- 
patient to be at Windsor again. I am anxious to hear 
of Princess Royal and if their other R. H.'s have got it. 
I hope the Feikiings have not, for then there is a certainty 
of my not seeing Windsor for ages ! If you can, write 
to me on Wednesday, and direct it enclosed to Lord H d , 
New Burlington Street. I suppose the town of Windsor 
is in a violent bustle with this election ; how vastly 
impertinent and foolish in Mr. Fox to think of showing 
himself there, and how charming the P. of Wales's be- 
haviour is. I am quite out of patience with him, and I 
long to be at Windsor, that he might know we are 
against him. 

We have had a charming letter from dear Mrs. Fox 
to-day. She is so happy and comfortable at Plymouth 
it is quite delightful. 

How does dear Mrs. Delany do ? I was not quite 
pleased with your account of her, but hope she is now 
recovered. My most affectionate duty to her, and pray 
remember me very tenderly to a young lady, a neice of 
hers I think it is ; but it is such a monstrous while since 
I have seen her (and great wits have short memorys) 



1 "Chelsea" — Lady Louisa Clayton must then have been with Lady 
Cremorne, at the beautiful villa now desecrated under that name, and 
known only as a guinguette (18G1). 



448 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

that I can scarcely recall her to my eyes, tho' she is 
always present in my heart ! 

Oh ! how hot it is ! but I suppose you are setting in 
your gallery, basking with the sun in your face, and 
wishing for afire at your bach I 

I have got in my room at present a nasty great fly, 
which goes buz in one ear and then buz in the other, so 
it puts me quite in a passion, and takes off all possible 
pleasure I could have in writing. Now do pity me and 
say it is enough to worry a saint, and then I'll try and 
command my temper, which puts me in mind to ask if 
Miss Finch is at Windsor ? 

Oh ! I have just recollected how you triumph about 

, but I am perfectly easy and quiet about it, and 

not either mortified or tantalised by the power you 
have over him, but delighted. 

Emelia A. Clayton. 

Mrs. Delany wrote from Windsor, the 7th of July, to Mr. 
Daniel Sandford, Christchurch, Oxford, expressing her satisfac- 
tion at young George Port (her little Vandyke) being then 
at the Charter House, to which he was presented by Queen 
Charlotte. She sends a message to the Bishop of St. David's, 1 
and begs that Mr. Daniel Sandford will convey to Lady Clive 
her sense of her kind intentions towards her at Windsor, and to 
say that only a quarter of an hour's conversation with her would 
have been a cordial. She adds her blessing to her godson (Mr. 
Daniel Sandford). 



1 Dr. Edward Small well, Bishop of St. David's from 1783 to 1788, when 
he was translated to Oxford, and died in 1799. 



ov KR8. DXLAKY. 449 

Mrs, Ihhtni/ to Mrs. Oramv%Be t at Cahouik. 

July 29th, 1787. 

My dear Niece, 

I cannot let a packet go by the hand of your 
dear and amiable child, without sending you a few 
lines. I shall be most impatient to know of his being 
Bafe in your own hands ; for he is indeed a treasure worth 
cultivating and preserving, and I am always delighted 
to have him when he can come to me. You are very 
fortunate in his dame, who seems to love him mater- 
nally. I think he is happy to spend some time with 
you and his father to confirm those civilities in his 
behaviour which you have so well began, and which 
the multiplicity of rude school boys, with whom he is 
engaged, will not promote, and I never met with a 
child that takes reproof with more sweetness of temper. 
You see I am following your good example, and don't 
intend to spoil him, tho' he is the darling of every in- 
dividual in my family. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Granville, at Calwich. 

Windsor, Aug. 5th, 1787. 

I have this morning received your kind letter, my 
dear niece Granville, and feel myself much obliged to 
you for so soon informing me of the safe arrival of 
your dear boy. I am sure he must be happy to return 
to such a home — happy in the best sense to be under 
the direction of those whose affection has not blinded 
their judgment. 

Windsor is at present very gay upon the arrival 



450 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

of the Duke of York, and it is supposed the birthday ! 
will be kept at Windsor, which will make it very gay 
indeed. 



Mrs. Delany wrote to Mrs. F. Hamilton, from Windsor, 
Aug. 11th, 1787 : 

" My powers are not always equal to my will, though, 
upon the whole, I find myself tolerably well ; my days 
are unequal, and I am subject to a langour at times 
that makes me unable to dictate. I am infinitely 
obliged to you for the justice you do me to all my dear 
friends in Ireland, and for your information about them. 
Continue your kind offices. I do not know how to par- 
ticularise the goodness which I daily experience ; and 
it is a matter of real astonishment to me, so unqualified 
as I am, under the load of years, and with some infirmi- 
ties, that I should receive so many unremitting marks 
of favour ; but the truth is, the love of giving comfort 
and bestowing happiness seems to predominate in the 
hearts of my royal friends. At this time of the year 
the evenings are devoted by them to the terrace till 
eight o'clock, when they return to the Lodge to their 
tea and concert of music, and happy are those who 
are admitted to that circle ! The Queen has had 
the goodness to command me to come whenever it is 
quite easy to me to do it, without sending particularly 
for me, lest it should embarrass me to refuse ; so that 
most evenings at half an hour past seven I go to Miss 
Burney's apartment, and when the royal family return 

1 The Princess Amelia, youngest child of George III., was born on the 
7th of Aug., 1783. She died Nov. 2nd, 1810. 



OF MBS. PELAXY. 461 

from the terrace, the King-, or one of the Princesses 
(generally the youngest, Princess Amelia., just four years 
old), come into the room, take me by the hand, and lead 
me into the drawing-room, where there is a chair ready 
for me by the Queen's left hand : the three eldest Prin- 
cesses sit round the table, and the ladies in waiting, Lady 
Charlotte Finch and Lady Elizabeth Waldegrave. A 
vacant chair is left for the King, whenever he pleases to 
sit down in it. Everyone is employed with their pencil, 
needle, or knotting. Between the pieces of music the 
conversation is easy and pleasant ; and, for an hour be- 
fore the conclusion of the whole, the King plays at 
backgammon with one of his equerries, and I am gene- 
rally dismissed. 

" Last Saturday morning, Governor Hamilton made 
me a flying visit ; the few of his family he could tell 
me anything about (which were Mrs. Preston and her 
daughters), he gave me a good account of, and that 
there was likelihood of my seeing her in London before 
they left England, which will give me great pleasure, 
though mixed with some painful recollections. 

11 August 13th. 

" I began this on Saturday, but found myself not 
equal to finish it ; but being better in the evening, 
I went to the Lodge, (to Miss Burney's apartments). 
1 had not been there a quarter of an hour before 
the King walked into the room, took me by the 
hand, and saying : ' Come along, Mrs. Delany,' led me 
into the Queen's apartment, and placed me in the chair 
allotted for me, next to Her Majesty (which, however, 
I am indebted to my deafness for), where I spent two 
hours, not knowing which gave me most delight, the 



452 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

harmony of the music, or that of the amiable society. 
The two Princes were there. Yesterday was the Prince 
of Wales's birthday, and being Sunday, the entertain- 
ment that was to be given was put off till Monday. 
The entertainment at the Castle yesterday was very 
superb. There were above a hundred people, Ministers of 
State and foreigners, invited to come to the Castle. At 
seven o'clock, and after the drawing-room was over and 
all compliments paid and received on the day, the com- 
pany were conducted into the music-room, where there 
was a very fine concert, chiefly of Mr. Handel's music, 
most exquisitely performed. When that was over, 
which was about twelve o'clock, there was a supper pre- 
pared in St. George's Hall, which for magnificence ex- 
ceeded every thing that has been done before. The 
company were not all dispersed till 2 o'clock, and are 
invited again to the same entertainment on Thursday, 
which is the Duke of York's birthday. The younger 
part of the company are in hopes of a ball. 

" I had a visit last Saturday from Mrs. Mary Henry, 
and we talked of you for the greatest part of the time 
she was with me. The justice she did my excellent 
friend was no small gratification to me." 



Mrs. Delany to Mr. Daniel Sandford. 
DEAR SlR, Windsor, Sept. 3rd, 1787. 

I was last night at the Lodge, and received the 
enclosed from Her Majesty, which she desired me to 
send to you, and that you would u read it and give your 
opinion whether you think it would be proper to have 
it translated into English. It is but a small abstract 



OP MHs. DBLANY. 453 

o\' a book which Her Majesty has not at present in her 
possession, but if yon can make any judgment of the 

whole by this small part, she will get the hook and send 
it yon. This is no more to be mentioned to anybody 
than that which yon are about. Her M. is much 
pleased with your alacrity in the work you are now 
translating', and glad to hear you are so much recovered, 
and hopes your attention will not be prejudicial to your 
health. 

Last Friday I had the pleasure of seeing your good 
friends Dr. and Mrs. Pultney, 1 who have been for some 
days on a visit at Mr. Brownings, in the neighbour- 
hood of Mr. Bryant. I was quite glad to see them. 
They were gratified with seeing the Royal Family on 
the terrace, and I was no less so on its having given 
Mr. Bryant an opportunity of doing justice to the 
character of so worthy a man to their Majesties, who 
inquired who he was ; and also I had the pleasure of 
seconding Mr. Bryant yesterday evening, when their 
Majesties mentioned it to me. My last accounts of your 
dear mother were very good. I hope for a continued 
account of the progress of your own health, and am 
with great esteem, dear sir, 

Your most sincere friend and humble s\ 

M. D. 

Miss Port is very well, and going to the Egham 
races ; otherwise I should have had a long postcript 
from her ; but I am sure I must add her compliments 



1 Dr. Richard Pulteney, a physician and botanist, born in 1730, died 
1801. He was the author of " Historical and Biographical Sketches of the 
Progress of Botany in England," &c. 



454 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

and good wishes. You may take a copy, but you must 
return the enclosed under cover to Major Masters, M. P. 
at the Honb le Mrs. Egerton's, Windsor Castle ; but direct 
the inside to me sealed up. 



Mrs. Preston wrote to Mrs. F. Hamilton, from London, 13th 
Sept., 1787:— 

" I will not delay giving you the pleasure I know you 
must receive, my good friend, from hearing such an ac- 
count of Mrs.Delany, as I can truly give you, from having 
spent two hours with her this morning. I was with 
her at 9 this morning, and heard (with no small agita- 
tion) her well-known foot hastening down to meet me. 
For a few minutes our meeting was silent, as many 
circumstances rushed into our minds very affecting to 
us both. I dreaded seeing the alteration in her, that 
was naturally to be expected from twenty years absence I 
from the period in her life of, from sixty-seven to 
eighty-seven ; but I was soon set at ease, by seeing the 
same apprehension, attention, benevolence, and comfortable 
enjoyment of every pleasant circumstance in her situa- 
tion, that you remember in her. Her enquiries, her 
remarks, her whole conversation, full of life and inge- 
nuity ; and that kind heart and manner of expressing 
its feelings, as warm as ever ! She is as upright, and 
walks as alertly, as when you saw her. In short, I 
could have had no idea of her being as I saw her in 
every way. She lets me know when her spare bed is 
at liberty, as she insists on having * her child ' (as she 
honoured me by naming me) again in her own house ; 
and I shall instantly obey her summons, with the 
pleasure you can suppose, but I could not express. 




©[£©[&© DMA ISO AIR^ AM KI \P®\H 




2^ 






OF MRS. DELANV. ±55 

Miss Tort is a most pleasing girl, with the manners you 
may suppose Mrs. Delany's </nv would have. The 
King and Queen, and all the younger branches increase 
in affection and respect to Mrs. D. She breakfasted 
with them yesterday, and the King always makes her 
lean on his arm. Her house is cheerful, and filled with 
her own charming works, no pictures have held their 
colours so well. 1 I had time to look over near a volume 
of her flowers, which are, I think, as exact representa- 
tions of nature as those you are acquainted with ; she 
has finished nine hundred and eighty sheets, and regrets 
that the thousand she intended wants twenty of its full 
number." 



Miss Emelia Clayton to Miss Port. 

My dearest G-eorgiana, 

I take the first opportunity (the Queen and Pss eB 
having been here till just now) to thank you very 
sincerely for your goodness in bringing the Pss cs down 
stairs yesterday, but we thought it grew very late, and 
not having mama's leave to stay, were afraid she might 
not like it, but another time we will be wiser — in the 
mean time, pray believe how very much we are all 
obliged to you ; if I don't express myself grateful it's all 
your fault, for you said so much yesterday about "words 
going for nothing" that I am almost afraid of simply 
thanking you ; but I must say I have locked up a great 
deal of love and gratitude for you. Mama desires her 
best love to you and Mrs. Delany, and says she will 



1 Mrs. Delany's crayon pictures are still remarkable for the manner in 
which the colours are preserved. 



456 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

call upon you if she can to-day. I hope I need not 
add 1 shall certainly accompany her. Good by, pray 
remember your own rule, that people that say little feel 
most, and that that is the case of 

Y r affec te Emelia A. Clayton. 



One more letter from Miss Emily Clayton is in the Editor's 
possession, without a date, by which it appears that she was 
then suffering from the commencement of the illness which so 
soon afterwards terminated her life. She was then at Windsor, 
but confined to the house, and the following sentences show her 
cheerful patience, her attachment to the Royal Family, and her 
failing strength : — 

" How I do envy you last night, but alack-a-day no 
such happiness attends poor me. Think of the Queen's 
meaning to give you a knotting needle, and I do 
participate indeed in your joy, and am so generous as 
to feel almost as happy as if it were myself, that you 
are so much distinguished ! Pray tell my dear Mrs. 
Delany that the last day Mama was at Chapel the King 
after having spoken to her and gone on, turned back to 
know how / did ? I believe that was the medicine that 
has cured my cough ! Pray remember every particular 
word they said about me last night. You have com- 
forted me by telling me I was named — and if I do not 
see you to-morrow pray write them down for fear you 
should forget them. I hope you are conscious of the 
great honours you receive, or else you will make me 
envious, jealous, and a thousand bad things ; but you 
ought to write me word * You are sure the sun 
where I was born, drew all such humours from me.' 

" I am so sorry about your cough ; do pray take care, 
it is a bad thing to get, but less so for you than for me ! 



OF BIBS. DBLANY, 45? 

1 purpose coming to you Friday night, if not before; 

but I do qoI know thai mamma purposes any such thing, 
therefore do do1 take an} notice of it, I know I am 
always welcome, bu1 vanity, vanity, all is vanity. I 
am so fusty for want of air I do not know what to do, 
and yet L must not go out, and so you know I must stay 
at home ! J am just this instant taken with an idle fit, 
and I long' to go to bed. For .shame, Emily ; rouze 
yourself and gel your letter finished before Mr. Wheble 
conies ! I declare I have been writing down my own 
inward thoughts. Oh that I had but a icishing cap. 
1 would this moment bring you this note, stay with you 
all day, make their Majesties come in the evening, and 
get the pearl bracelets when I get home ! 

" I like your dream, it is so probable, but at present I 
do not wish it to be realized. You know my thoughts 
upon that subject; but I always expect in about two 
years they will alter ; but I am very stupid I know 
about amusements, and I despair a little of anything 
raising me from my lethargy of staying at home rather 
than going into heats and getting a headache." 



Tlie Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Dclany. 

Bill Hill, 25th Oct., 1787. 

I was so truly anxious for the success of my dear 
friend's journey to Norbury, which I thought was to 
take place much sooner than I find it has, that I shou'd 
not have fail'd to write my enquiries if I had been 
able ; but last week I was seized with tooth-ache to a 
degree of torture, that I went up to London and got 

PART II. — VOL. III. 2 H 



458 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

my friend Sir Lucas Pepys to my assistance, but he, to 
my great mortification, requir'd the immediate aid of a 
tooth-drawer. I was obliged to submit, and had an old 
rock of a great tooth dug out, which had been deeply 
rooted in the neighbourhood of my ear for more than 
half a century. I will say nothing of the operation. 
No ! but I will much praise the friendly tyrant S r 
Lucas, who condemn' d me to it, for I am cur'd, whereas 
I was a full month last winter under much discipline and 
more pain. 

I must be home again before your return from 
Norbury, so that it wou'd be vain to attempt paying 
my respects to you at Windsor. I should not find you, 
and I shou'd be ready to cry. Have you any thoughts 
of St. James's Place, my dear madam ? Methinks 'tis a 
long long time since I have had the great pleasure to see 
you ; and when I see your cousin Lady Tweedale, she ex- 
pects me to give her a particular account. Your cousins 
here are stout and bonny rogues, and little Granville 1 as 
fat as butter. Their father is at the Admiralty very 
busy ; but our newspapers to-day flatter us with hopes of 
peace. God grant it. My son has been a peace-maker 
in Cornwall, and was happy enough to pacify near a 
thousand angry miners, who were marching into Truro 
to pull their houses about their ears. He met them 
accompany'd with one gentleman, and contriv'd to 
persuade them to return home quietly to their wives 
and children. My friends at Badminton are well. I 
had a visit of one night from the Duke, when he went 



1 Fourth son of the Hon. John Leveson Gower, and grandson of Mrs. 
Boscawen ; died unmarried, in holy orders, 1841. 



OF Mils. DKLANY, 459 

up io the levee last week. I hope Mr. Dewes' journey 
to the South of France is more for amusement than 
health. I beg you will not return to Windsor in such 
weather as this is; it has rain'd all day, and blows too 
a fresh gale. I would not have you get cold the be- 
ginning the winter, nor indeed at any time, for I am 
most affectionately, 

Most truly your faithful 

F. B. 

Pray return my kind complin* 8 and good wishes to 
your fair niece, and I must send my service to your 
most excellent secretary. 1 

P. S. I have never deliver'd your message to Mrs. 
Cha. Stuart 2 for I have not the honour to visit her, and 
have not once seen her since I have liv'd at Richmond. 

Lady E. Mackenzie 3 told me that our dear friend 
Lady Bute was to go to Bath on y e 20th of this month. 
All health attend her. 



The following anecdote was written by Mrs. Preston to Mrs. 
F. Hamilton, in Oct., 1787, and needs no comment, but is a 
practical illustration of the deep attachment of Queen Charlotte 
towards Mrs. Delany : — 

* One little anecdote of the Queen struck me, as a 
strouger instance of her real tender feeling towards our 



1 Mrs. Astley (afterwards Mrs. Agnew). 

- The Hon. Sir Charles Stuart, fourth son of John, 3rd Earl of Bute, 
married, 19th April, 1778, Louisa, second daughter and coheiress of Lord 
Vere Bertie. 

3 Lady Elizabeth, daughter of John, 2nd Duke of Argyll, and wife of the 
lit. Hon. James Stuart Mackenzie, brother of John, Earl of Bute. 

2 ii 2 



4 GO 



LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 



dear old friend, than all bounties or honours. As soon as 
the Duchess of Portland died, Mrs. Delany got into the 
chaise to go to her own house, the Duke followed her, 
begging to know what she would accept that had be- 
longed to his mother ? Mrs. Delany recollected a bird 
that the Duchess always fed and kept in her own room, 
and desired to have it, and felt towards it, as you must 
suppose ! In a few days Mrs. Delany got a bad fever, 
and the bird died ; but for some hours she was too ill 
even to recollect her bird. The Queen had one of the 
same sort which she valued extremely (a weaver bird) ; 
she took it with her own hands, and while Mrs. Delany 
slept she had the cage brought, and put her own bird 
into it, charging every one not to let it go so near Mrs. 
Delany, that she could perceive the change, till she was 
enough recovered, better to bear the loss of her first 
favourite.' , 

This trait of Queen Charlotte had evidently been related to 
Mrs. Preston by Mrs. Delany herself, when she visited her at 
Windsor, a few days previous to this date. 

Mrs. Granville, in a letter to Mrs. Viney, from Calwich, 
Nov. 19th, 1787, having lately returned from Windsor, says, 
"Mrs. Delany is astonishingly well for her age, and has the 
enjoyments of a much younger person." 

In the month of Nov. in this year (1787) Mr. Bunbury 1 was at 
Windsor. He was celebrated for his wonderful talent for 



1 Henry William Bunbury, the celebrated caricaturist, second son of the 
Rev. Sir William Bunbury, Bart., born in 1750, married, in 1771, Catherine, 
daughter of Kane William Horneck, Esq., Capt. in Royal Engineers, and 
had two sons — 1, Charles John; 2, Henry Edward, the present Baronet 
(1861), born in 1778. 



OF MRS. DELANT. 4G1 

drawing, as well as for what were then called " caricatures," but 
which, when compared with the vulgar burlesque figures which 
have since been designated as caricatures, would not be re- 
OOgnized under that name. His beautiful illustrations of 
Shakespeare are also well known. When at Windsor he wrote 
a hieroglyphic letter to Miss Port. The interpretation is here 
given, which is certainly a literary curiosity. 

Ass carrying on a correspondence with a young lady is a ten 
(I /</ with dang* r in these Tunes, wood eye could Apollo gize toe ewer 
ant for a dress Inn you without her permission. Ass enter- 
taining ass rid L's a Peer letter own nought is Moor puzzling 
than high rogue leaf x. Teller 1 toe x plain this ass fast as possible. 

H. B. 



Court Dewes, Esq., to Miss Port, at Windsor. 

Pau, Nov. 26th, 1787. 

My dear Neice, 

As you speak only of Mrs. Delany's having 
received a letter f" 1 me f* 1 Calais I doubt one I wrote to 
her f Paris is lost, as it ought to have arrived before 
y* date of yours. I am only sorry it sh d make me seem 
neglectful where every tie both of duty and affection 



1 * Teller.''' — This word is represented (vide plate) by a figure with a 
label in its mouth, " / am the Duke of Buckiiigham." The Duke of 
Buckingham was Teller of the Exchequer. 

2 The Bditor had employed Messrs. Hanhart, Chromo-lithographers, 
Charles Street, Fitzroy Square, to make a fac-simile of the coloured 
hieroglyphics from the original It ttt r (which she possesses), in the hope that 
the Publisher would have inserted it in this work ; but as he has declined 
doing so, she has presented the plate to Messrs. Hanhart, with permission 
to sell copies to any amount on their own account to those persons who 
may desire to possess them, to bind up with the work. 



462 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

w d make me wish to appear least so. The account you 
give me of her is a great cordial to my spirits. I 
heartily pray I may find her as well at my return ; I 
am sure no care or attention on your part will be want- 
ing. One of my greatest consolations in my banish- 
ment, is to know y 1 she is surrounded w tb such friends, 
as are rarely to be found, who are all most tenderly 
interested in her. 

As to my own health, I hope it is not worse than it 
was when I wrote last, w ch is saying a great deal, for I 
am very sorry to be obliged to retract all y e praises I 
bestow' d on y e climate in my last ; for ten days past we 
have had as cold, gloomy, wet, and sometimes as hard 
frosty weather as you can have had in England. My 
inducement for coming here was to be in y e way to 
take a peep at Spain in y e spring, if I found myself in 
spirits for it, w ch I still hope I shall be. In other re- 
spects I have no reason to be dissatisfied with my situa- 
tion here. I have received great civilities f m y e inhabi- 
tants, and there are three English families, good sort of 
conversible people, w th whom I spend most part of my 
afternoons ; I am never at a loss about my morn g , parti- 
cularly when I can ride out, w cb however y e weather 
does not always permit, when it does, there is no place 
I believe in y e world where there is such variety of 
good and beautiful rides. 

My meals are solitary, but y* I am a little used to at 
home. I have yet heard nothing of my pianoforte ! I 
sh d be glad to know y e name of y e merchant at Bour- 
deaux who was to forward it to Bayonne. 

I never heard of Prince Rice — I suppose he comes 



OB MRS. PF.LAXY. 463 

from Carolina? I shall be happy it" my next l rc can 
congratulate Mr. Lightibot on // living of Marybone. 

Court Dewes. 



Mrs. Delany to Mr. Daniel Sandford, Christchurch Coll., Oxford. 
MY DEAR SlR, Windsor, Dec. 7th, 1787. 

I have just received your letter dated the 5, and 
it made me blush to think I had not thanked you for 
that which I had received before with your kind 
information about Mrs. Jebb. I am very sorry to 
hear you have been indisposed, and that a genius 
so zealously occupied in works of the first consequence 
should meet with any check ; but in order to pursue 
your good works, you must not press too hard upon 
so delicate a constitution. It is a great satisfaction 
to me, tho' no surprise, that you should be so kindly 
distinguished by the Dean of Oxford, and I am sure 
you will not forfeit any part of his favour by a 
longer acquaintance with him. I think I can answer 
for your giving no offence by prolonging the time to 
half a year for the translation. As Her M. assured me not 
many days ago, that she did not wish you should put 
yourself to any manner of inconvenience, or do more 
than your health can well bear. I shall take the first 
opportunity of mentioning the contents of your last 
letter, and beg you will no more doubt of my desire of 
doing you the justice you deserve, than of my being 
with great esteem, 

Your most sincere friend and humble s\ 

M. D. 



464 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Miss Port desires her best wishes and comp ts . I 
have so great an esteem and regard for the character of 
your excellent Dean, that I almost wish tho' unknown 
to him to have my respects convey'd to him. 

Since my writing this letter, I have had the honour 
of being with Her M. two hours, and communicated 
the contents of your last, with which she was perfectly 
well satisfied. 



Tlie Hon. Mrs. Boscawen to Mrs. Delany. 

Rosedale, 10th Dec, 1787. 

Yes, my dear friend, Dover Cliff shall be my alias for 
a fall down stairs, so replete it is with horror and 
danger ; and now if you will be pleas' d to invent as apt 
a title for a great contusion you have only to think of 
the most tedious thing that can be suggested, for here 
I am after a whole month carry 'd up and down stairs 
like a log, my carefull surgeon not suffering me to walk, 
tho' I praise God I am very well able ; but till all the 
swelling (or " tumour," as he calls it) subsides, I am 
not to require anything of this " insulted leg/' w ch is 
another of his terms, for the hurt it receiv'd. Remem- 
bering with thankfulness how much greater the " insult " 
might have been by a broken bone, I bear all patiently, 
not having so much as a broken skin, only a violent 
bruise and swelling which abates daily I believe, but 
very slowly. Mrs. Leveson, having perfectly succeeded 
in her good WT>rk, has made me two visits with her 
eldest son, now grown a very companionable personage, 
— the same for whom you us'd to make greyhounds and 



OF MBS. DELANT, 4G5 

hires thai look'd distress'd (tho 1 of white paper). They 
iefl me to-day, bid I may possibly see them again when 
ghe lias collected her three school-boys to cany them to 

Bill Hill for their holydays. My son, who came up to 
Parlia*, is step'd back again into Cornwall to finish his 
affairs and his planting. He made me several kind 
visits here, but now I depend chiefly* on Miss Sayer, 
who has been much occupy' d with Mrs. Fnllarton and 
2 other good ladies about our Sunday School, which 
I hope we have happily atchiev'd, and yesterday our 
children were rang'd at church for the first time, and 
behav'd extremely well. We have had it much at 
heart, for Her Majesty (of whom we may well say, there 
is nought too low for her care or her goodness) was 
pleas'd to express her desire that there shou'd be a 
Sunday School at Richmond, and our endeavours have 
been exerted to bring it to effect. Indeed, I shou'd not 
say ours, as if I had been active, but the four ladies 
who have, very judiciously, repair'd to Mrs. Trimmer 1 
for instructions, and repeating their visits are become 
good proficients in their business, I flatter myself, and 
as they reside here all the winter, will carry it on under 
their own immediate inspection. I am very glad to 
hear you have had such welcome visitors as Mr. Bernard 
Dewes and his daughter, as well as the great pleasure 
to see dear Lady Bute. I have heard of her good 
looks from London, where I hope to have the honour 
to see her by the end of this week ; for I announe'd my 
intention to my doctor to-day, and he seem'd to think 



1 Sarah Trimmer, born at Ipswich in 1741, died in 1810. Her maiden 
name was Kirby. 



466 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

I might walk by that time ! The Duke and Dss of 
Beaufort are return' d to old Cornbury, where they wait 
(with some impatience) for the arrival of their lovely sons 
from France, and then proceed to Badminton, where, 
on L d Worcester's birthday and coming of age, there 
are to be holydays most splendid {and joyous I hope). 
Mrs. Leveson goes, as do L d and L y Falmouth, Lady 
Bathurst 1 and her young people, 1/ de Clifford 2 and 
hers, L y Geo. Cavendish, 3 L y Sefton 4 from London, and 
so many from Glostershire and the county of Monmouth, 
tho' all volunteers (for no invitations are sent), that I 
cannot but doubt whether the large hospitalites of Bad- 
minton will be sufficient to entertain them. Had it been 
summer it wou'd have made a delightfull al fresco, when 
every bower and every alcove wou'd have offer'd a 
collation, and every grove a concert of instrumental 
musick instead of vocal. My paper warns me to take 
leave of my dear friend, and to kiss my hand to her fair 
niece. Adieu, then ! health and happiness attend you ! 



1 " Lady Bathurst.'"— Tryphena, daughter of Thomas Scawen, Esq., and 
second wife of Henry, 2nd Earl Bathurst. 

2 "Lady de Clifford" — Sophia, third daughter of Samuel Campbell, Esq., 
married, 20th Aug., 1763, Edward Southwell, 17th Baron de Clifford, who 
died in 1777. Lady de Clifford was Governess to the Princess Charlotte 
of Wales. 

3 " Lady George Cavendish.^ — Elizabeth, daughter of Charles, 7th Earl 
of Northampton, married, 27th Feb., 1782, Lord George Augustus 
Cavendish, third son of William, 4th Duke of Devonshire. 

4 "Lady Sefton.'" — Isabella, second daughter of William, 2nd Earl of 
Harrington, married, 27th Nov., 1768, Charles William, Viscount Molyneux, 
created Earl of Sefton, 30th Nov., 1771. 



OP MRS. DELANY. 4G7 

Court Dans, Etf. t to MissTort, at Windsor. 

Tau, 3rd Jan., 1788. 

My dear Niece, 

Many happy now years, and every good wish of 
y e season, to yon and your dear aunt, and may I never 
pass another at such a distance from you again ! Not y* 
I w d have you think I am disappointed in what I ex- 
pected from my expedition, I pass my time full as well 
as I imagined I should, and my health is certainly much 
mended ; so that if I have no drawback in the winter 
aud spring, I have a reasonable hope y* I shall see my 
friends in the summer as well as they are so good as to 
wish me. I propose leaving y s place y e latter end of 
March. If I find myself in tolerable health and spirits I 
shall make a tour into Spain, then I shall not be at home 
till July ; if I do not feel bold enough to go to Spain, I 
hope to see Eng d in May, and then I shall be consoled 
for the loss of my tour by seeing my friends 2 months 
sooner than I sh d otherwise have done. Do not omit as 
soon as you receive y s to get me a letter to Madrid, for 
the Marquis del Campo, and send it directly to me to 
Pau, or else it will come too late. I now ride out 
generally without my great coat, and frequently even at 
y s season see butterflies, and this morn g there are violets 
in y e market. I am much obliged to you for your 
entertaining letter of y e 11 th Deer. I don't quarrel w th 
you now for your little writing, so pray don't enlarge 
your hand while I stay abroad, and why sh d you leave 
3 inches at y e top of y e first sheet, for at 1000 miles 
distance one excuses y* respect ! 

I dare say y e verses in Ye World are very pretty, 



468 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

but I see no English paper here ; all my intelligence 
comes f 11 y e Courier de l'Europe, a French one w ch has 
all y e material public, but no private occurrences. 

I am much obliged to Mrs. Feilding for y e honour of 
her invitation, w ch if I pass through Paris in my way 
home, I shall certainly profit by. I am a little emba- 
rassed on ace 1 of Mr. Sandford whom I gave hopes I 
sh d meet there, but I hope you and Mrs. Delany will be 
able to settle y* matter w th him ; it will depend upon 
my Spanish expedition. If I go to Spain I shall have no 
time to spend at Paris, if I do not I shall be happy to 
meet him. 



/ have now to thank Mrs. Delany for a charming letter 
of y e 13 th Dec r . Your account of poor Miss Clayton 1 
has shocked me very much ; but as youth is wonder- 
fully elastic,* I will still hope she may get thro', if not, 
I shall feel greatly for her poor mother ! In such cases it 
may well be said, " 'tis y e survivor dies" and for Mary 
Ann, 2 who will begin (in early life) to feel the greatest 
and inevitable misfortune of a long one, the loss of 
friends! The French papers frightened me with the 
death of Lord Guildford, you have revived me by letting 
me know y 1 so valuable a life is yet preserved. I am 
glad Her Majesty preserves her taste for botany. I 
think, however, a real hortus siccus is better than any 
shadow, unless it was such a one as yours, w ch is almost 



1 Miss Emily Clayton was at this time very ill, and it was probably from 
Mrs. Delany's letter giving an account of her danger, that Mr. Dewes so 
abruptly ended this letter to his niece, Miss Port, and continued it to 
Mrs. Delany. 

2 "Mary Ann."— Miss Port. 



OF Mils. DELANY. 169 

a reaaiy. At v s dead season my botanical studies are at 
a stand, I have, however, found the Mercurialis annuus, 
and y e Helleborus foetidus in flower, w lh I believe is 
earlier than they are in England. 1 am very sorry for 
Mr. Lightfoot's disappointment, and more lor his illness; 
I hope I may now congratulate him on his recovery, I 
sir 1 be very glad to do so on a preferment w ch he so well 
deserves. I w d not have yon think y* we have no 
X massing here ; we have had as large a round of 
dinners at Pan as we could have at Welsbourn (tho 
perhaps (to me) not quite so pleasant). At one time we 
musterd 21 children (English included). We have like- 
wise got a tolerable troop of players come, so y* we are 
now much gayer than we were. I beg to be kindly re- 
membered to all who enquire after me, particularly Miss 
Burney and Mrs. Astley, and am a most dutiful affec- 
tionate nephew to the best of aunts, and a most affec- 
tionate uncle to one who I hope and have no reason to 
doubt will prove one of y e best of nieces. 

C. Dewes. 

P.S. — Jan y 4. The courier going off gives me but 
time to say that I have just received yours of y e 20 lh 
Dec r , many thanks for it : happy to hear a good ace 1 
of you, tho' / grieve sincerely for poor Miss Clayton, 
for her mother, and her friend P 

The death of Miss Emily Clayton (which had evidently been 
announced in Mrs. Delany's letter of the 20th of Dec, the receipt 
of which was acknowledged by Mr. Court Dewes in the above post- 
script) occurred in the month of Dec, 1787 ; the cause was sup- 



1 Mi.ss Port. 



470 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

posed to be a rapid decline. Her death was not only a grievous 
sorrow to her own family, but also to Mrs. Delany and her niece, 
and to the latter it was the first great sorrow she had ever 
experienced. 

Mrs. Delany wrote from Windsor to Mrs. Granville, Jan. 5th, 

1788 : — 

" I am a little hurried this morning, expecting com- 
pany to look at my books, and I expect the Eoyal Family 
home this evening to stay till about the 16. I shall go ■ 
a day or two before." 

The Hon. Mrs. Fox to Miss Port, at Windsoi\ 

My dear Miss Port, Aud% End ' ^ "*■ 178a 

I feel very grateful to you for the kind lines 
I received from you this morning; be assured that 
every mark of regard from so dear a friend of my 
darling Emily is soothing to me, indeed, I never 
can he sufficiently thankful for the preservation of our 
health during such a deep affliction; time, and a 
thorough confidence in the mercy of Providence (even 
when it so sorely wounds), can alone restore our tran- 
quility, and I trust they will in some degree, though I 
have no idea of ever ceasing to greive for the dear 
lovely friend I have lost! whose society and the 
reciprocal correspondence that subsisted between us 
when separated, constituted so very large a part of the 
happiness of my life, that I cannot imagine it possible 
for me ever to enjoy again such perfect felicity as I 
have done ! 

I am sure you will rejoice to hear that we have 

1 " I shall go" — to Loadon. 



OF MRS. DELANY. 471 

constant good accounts of my dear mother's health, and 
that her wonderful fortitude, and pious resignation, still 

continue. The kind and dear friends that surround me 
here arc all well in health, and my engaging little boy 
grows every day more interesting to me. I hope dear 
Mrs. Delany is well ; pray give her all our best coinp ta 
(and mine most affectionately) ; accept them from Col. 
Fox, and believe me, my dear Miss Port, to be ever 
Your affee te and sincere friend, 

Marianne Fox. 

Pray give my love to Miss Golds worthy when you 
see her. 

On the 18th of January in this year (1788) Mrs. Delany dic- 
tated to Mrs. Frances Hamilton as follows : — 

" I came to town the beginning of this week. My 
illustrious neighbours have also removed to their winter- 
quarters, which makes me less regret my leaving 
Windsor ; and, indeed, as I cannot enjoy my old 
friends (that reside here) when I am there, it makes me 
support what now is a melancholy home to me, as recol- 
lection brings back the happy hours that made this 
situation so dear to me ! My niece is now of an age to be 
indulged with those amusements, which are reasonable 
at her time of life ; and, indeed, I think her worthy of 
all my care. I know, my dear friend, you wish for 
some little anecdotes concerning my intercourse with 
those who do me so much honour as to continue their 
partiality and indulgence to me, calling on me if I am 
confined at any time, and allowing me the great 
privilege and happiness of attending them, when I am 



472 LIFE AND COKRESPONDENCE 

able, every evening at the Queen's Lodge, which is 
generally two or three times in the week. By that 
means, I have an opportunity of seeing my amiable and 
much esteemed friend Miss Burney whenever I go 
there, and when I cannot go she is permitted to come 
to me. The most extraordinary account I can give of 
myself is, my having made a visit to Mr. and Mrs. 
Locke, at Norbury Park, about thirty miles from 
Windsor, in the month of October." " Mr. Locke is 
esteemed one of the most perfect characters living. 
His lady's outward form and amiable disposition are 
truly angelic. They have two sons and three daughters, 
all beautiful ; most rationally and elegantly educated. 
The eldest son, Mr. William Locke, 1 is the first genius 
of the age for drawing. My niece and I spent four 
days there very agreeably, and ? I thank God, though a 
bold undertaking, it agreed very well with me." 

It was at this period, on the day before Mrs. Delany intended 
to leave Windsor, and when she was at dinner with Miss Port, 
that the Queen, unannounced, entered the dining-room. Her 
Majesty desired she would not be angry with her servant, as it 
was by her command that she was unannounced, and she said 
she would sit down and eat with her. The dinner was a dish 
of veal cutlets and an orange- pudding; Miss Port waited upon 
Her Majesty, the Queen commended the cooking, and said 
that the orange-pudding was so excellent that she desired the 
receipt might be sent to the royal cooks, which was done ; but as 
they never succeeded in making it equally well, it was at last 
sent up for the Queen's dinner by Mrs. Delany from her own 
house ready made. This orange-pudding was afterwards named 
" Queen Charlotte's orange-pudding," and the receipt is in the 



1 "Mr. William Locke," brother to the late Lady Martin and Mrs. 
Angerstein, and father of Lady Wallscourt (1861). 



OF MRS. DELANY. 173 

session of the Editor under that name. This anecdote is 
mentioned to Mrs. F. Hamilton, but without all the above details, 
and Mis. Delany concludes in those words: — 

" Soon after the clock struck four, Her Majesty said she 
would resign her place ; for she came to see me on pur- 
fco prevent my venturing out in the evening, lest I 
should catch cold before my journey, I am now in the 
midst of unpacking and receiving the visits and kind 
enquiries of my London friends, so that I hardly know 
what I write ; but I could not let the new year run on 
farther without wishing you, my dear Mrs. F. Hamilton, 
many happy returns of it. 

" I was much gratified in having Mrs. Preston's 
company for a few days at Windsor, and in talking 
about dear Irish friends ; to whom I am sure you will 
always do me justice. All my family are well. I have 
just heard that Lord Aylesbury 1 has made proposals to 
Lady Anne Rawdon — a match approved of by every 
body." 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

St. James's Place, Feb. 3rd, 1788. 

My dearest M. I am sure must be thoroughly con- 
vinced that my not having written a letter lately has 
not been for the want of the tenderest affection, and 
the kindest wishes for the recovery of her health ; and 
now I do not mean to urge you to write, as I want no 



1 Thomas Bruce Brudenell, Earl of Ailesbury, K. T. Treasurer to the 
Queen; married, 2ndly, Feb. 14th, 1788, Lady Anne Rawdon, eldest 
daughter of John, 1st Earl of Moira. 

PART II. — VOL. III. 2 I 



474 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

assurance of your real affection or regard for me, and 
as a proof of its continuation, I hope you will have 
every attention to your own health. Nothing can con- 
duce more to revive and support me in my very declin- 
ing state than an increase of your happiness. I pray 
God to guide and guard you. Dictating now grows 
painful to me, and I can only add that your dear 
daughter is all that you can wish her, and that I am, 
with the truest affection, 

Yours, 
M. D. 



Mrs. Delany to Mrs. Granville (at Calwich). 

St. James's Place, Feb. 11th, 1788. 

Mary is very well, and would have written if I had 
not, but she has many engagements on her hands for 
this week ; the trial, the Eichmond House Play, (she 
goes with Lady Ailsbury,) and the oratorio at Tottenham 
Court, having had a ticket given her by the King. 
Her love and duty attend you all. 

The trial of Warren. Hastings, Esq., before the House of 
Commons, commenced on the 13th of Feb. Horace Walpole, 
in writing to the Countess of Ossory, Dec. 16th, 1787, says: — 
" The play at Eichmond House is to be 'The Wonder/ with ' The 
Guardian.' The new performers are Lord Henry Fitzgerald, 
who never played in comedy before, but is good in tragedy ; 
a Miss Hamilton, niece of Lord Abercorn, and a Captain Merry." 
Mrs. Hobart does not play in those pieces, but is to choose her 
own part in the next. 



01 MRS, DELANY. { > :> 

. Asttey to Domiti Somdford) Eaq. t Ch. Church Coll., Oxford, 

St. James's Place, March 4th, 1788, (Qy.) 

Sir, 

I received your letter this morning, and am 
oharged with Mrs. Delany's kind comp t8 and thanks for 
your greai attention to her. She was, indeed, much 
affected by the sudden death of Mr. Lightfoot, 1 who she 
has seen in full health but a few days before. 

The attack was very severe and unexpected. He 
got up in the morning, perfectly well ; but was seiz'd 
about ten o'clock, with a violent pain at his breast and 
groat oppression, assistance was immediately called in, 
and a blister applied to the part most affected, and 
apprehending danger, Dr. Lind from Windsor was 
sent for, who arrived about 3 in the afternoon, and 
approved of what was done, but cou'd get no medicine 
to stay on his stomach ! However, his pulse rather re- 
covered, accompanied with an uncommon sleepiness, 
and Dr. Lind hoped to find him better in the morning, 
but alas, about one o'clock he departed. What a change 
in 14 hours ! 

His disorder at first was thought to be a flying gout, 
but from some appearances afterwards they had reason 
to think a blood vessel had burst. I forgot to mention 
one circumstance : upon his first being taken he fainted 
quite away in a cold sweat, and remained with little or 
no pulse for some hours. 

Mrs Delany, I have the pleasure to inform you, is in 
very good health, so is Miss Port, who begs her com- 



1 The Rev. John Lightfoot, M.A., F.R.S., Rector of Gotham, co. Notting- 
ham, author of "Flora Scotica," died 20th Feb., 1788. 

2 i 2 



476 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

pliments. Your brother Mr. W m dined here last Sun- 
day, and seem'd very well, and hoped Mrs. Sandford 
was better than she had been. I am, sir, 

Your obliged humb e ser 1 , 

Anne Astley. 



Mrs. Delauy to her godson, Mr. Daniel Sandford, 1 Ch. Church Coll., Oxford. 

St. James's Place, March 22nd, 1788. 

Dear Sir, 

I am much obliged to you for your letter dated 
the 19, and am very glad that you and Dr. Sibthorp 2 
have begun a botanical friendship, I shall receive 
thanks from both sides for being the promoter of it. 
I have still better accounts from Bath, and have now 
but just time to answer your questions about the trans- 
lation of GL I think it will not be proper for me 
directly to mention what you say about the printing of 
it. But when I have an opportunity, I will inform the 
person how near it is to a conclusion, and that may give 
occasion to enter more upon the subject, and then I 
will let you know the result. Believe me, 

Most sincerely, your affectionate friend, 

M. D. 

Tho' Miss Port is fast asleep in her bed after ten 
o'clock, (sleeping away the remains of a cold,) I know 
she will chide me if I do not add her good wishes. 
Your friend Mrs. Jeb has taken a house at Marlow, 
Berkshire. 

1 Afterwards Bishop of Edinburgh, 

2 Dr. John Sibthorp, a learned naturalist and Regius Professor of Botany 
in the University of Oxford. He published, in 1794, " Flora Oxoniensis, 1 ' 
and died 1796. 



OF MBa DELANY. ^77 

The sad period has now arrived when Mrs. Delany, from 
oausea which had little or nothing to do with her advanced age, 
was deprived of her life. The Editor does not possess any 
manuscript in relation to the short interval between the 22nd of 
March, when Mrs. Delany wrote to Mr. Daniel Sandford, and 
tho 7th of April, when Miss Tort wrote the following words to 
Mrs. Dickenson. Mrs. Delany was taken ill on Sunday, the 6th 
of April. 



Miss Port to Mrs. Dickenson. 

7th April, 1788. 

My aunt lias passed a very bad day, her fever and 
oppression on her breath increasing* every moment. 
Indeed to so violent a degree, that without wait g for 
Dr. Turton, at nine o'clock Mr. Yonge bled her. 

When Dr. Turton came, he approved of what had been 
done. She appears somewhat relieved, but not as much 
so as was to be expected, upon which Dr. T. has order'd 
a blister, which if she is not speedly and very greatly 
relieved from the oppression, is to be put on\ she was 
much obligedby your kind concern, which, w th her love, 
she charged me to assure you of, 

G. M. A. F 



Miss Port to Mrs. Dickenson. 

April, 1788. 

Dr. Turton gives us some hopes by say g there are 
some favourable symptoms since mor B . 
May they continue and increase! 

G. M. A. Port. 



478 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

Miss Port to Mrs. Dickenson. 

8th April, 1788. 

As I feard, the blister was obliged to be applied 
(tho' not till 6 o'clock this morning). She has been up 
to have her bed made, and Mr Yonge says, thank God ! 
that she is really better, that is, that the fever is very 
much conquer' d, but she is weaker than can be imagined. 
She thanks you most sincerely for your kindness. 

G. M. A. P. 

Were it not known that Mrs. Delany did not survive this 
illness, it must be anticipated that no mortal frame could support 
such medical treatment as is here detailed. It will be remem- 
bered that Mrs. Delany had been subjected, only the previous 
year, to very much the same treatment, which had resulted in a 
putrid sore throat, which she struggled through by the extra- 
ordinary strength of her constitution. On the present occasion, 
after being bled and blistered, temporary relief was obtained at 
the price of deadly exhaustion and the speedy termination of her 
existence ; and this relief being pronounced by a medical at- 
tendant to be positive " amendment" was hailed by her friends and 
relations as the forerunner of recovery. It appears from the 
following letter of Horace Walpole's to Mrs. Dickenson, that she 
had communicated, to him the favourable impression she had re- 
ceived, and that he believed Mrs. Delany to be out of danger. 



The Hon. Horace Walpole to Mrs. Dickenson. 

13th April, 1788. 

How very kind my dear madam, in the midst of 
your own anxiety, to think of mine ! I am as much 
obliged to you, as if you yourself had cured Mrs. Delany ! 
" Certainly recovering," (I trust she is,) and that you 
will be rewarded by enjoying her again. But I fear you 
will dread London, after being received by such alarms 



OF Mi:s. DELANY. 479 

about her and y r daughter, who I hope remains quite 
well; and thai she and you may live to Mrs. Delany's 
|ge, ami be as much l>< loved. 

Veins most, &c. WaLPOLE. 



Bernard Dewea t Esq. to Mrs. Dickenson. 

13 April, 1J88. 
DeaB Madam, 

Miss Port is gone to church. I shall, therefore, 

take upon me to answer y r kind note, which I have the 

happyness of being able to do in as satisfactory a way 

;is the time will permit. Mrs Delany certainly continues 

gradually mending, and Dr Turton's expression this 

morning, was, " I have the greatest reason to believe now 

that ire shall have our old friend, restored to us. But for 

that purpose it is absolutely necessary to keep her as quiet 

;is possible," which advice you may be sure we most 

strictly observe, and I hope and trust her very valuable 

life, will yet be spared to her family and friends, 

Yours very sincerely, B. Dewes. 

The simple account given by Mrs. Delany's attached waiting 
woman, Mrs. Anne Astley, (afterwards Mrs. Agnew) will be the 
best and most authentic narration that can be given of the 
hours that intervened between the 13th of April, when her 
niece was gone to church under the consoling belief of Mrs* 
Delany's recovery, and the 15th of April, when she breathed her 
last, only two days afterwards. Mrs. Astley 's statement is as 
follows : — u An inflammation on the lungs was certainly the cause 
of Mrs. Delany's death, caught in going to meet the Royal 
Family at Kew. After three days' illness the fever began to 
intermit and she was thought better, then it was that the doctors 



480 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE 

ordered bark to be administered ; when I told Mrs. Delany she 
looked so distressed, and said, " I have always had a presenti- 
ment that if bark were given it would be my death. You know 
I have at times a great defluxion on my lungs, it will stop that, 
and my breath with it." This I mentioned to the doctors, but 
they said there was no alternative, and it was the only medicine 
they could depend upon to remove the fever ; but seeing the 
dear lady so averse to taking it I offered to keep her secret and 
to put it away. " Oh, no !" she said, " I never was reckoned 
obstinate and I will not die so" The effect was what she foretold. 
Many hours- -a great many — did she lie after she had lost the use of 
speech, labouring for breath. I grieved to see it, and it was 
really a relief when this best of human beings was relieved from 
suffering to joyn her kindred spirits in heaven ; for she was little 
short of an angel on earth." 

"I have not the least recollection of the message 1 I was 
enjoined to deliver to Madame d'Arblay after Mrs. Delany's 
death ; but my memory is not the best, and some things make 
more impression than others ; this was of a nature (I should 
think) not easily forgotten ; it might be true, tho' I cannot bring 
into my mind any idea of it." 

From the favourable opinion pronounced by her doctors on 
the 13th April, Mrs. Delany's death was at last so unexpected, 
that the shock to her friends was as great as if she had been in 
the full vigour of youth, and to her niece (her adopted child) 
then only in her 17th year, it was completely overwhelming ; 
her feelings cannot be better expressed than in her own words 
to Mrs. Frances Hamilton, to whom she communicated the fact 
of Mrs. Delany's death, on 17th April, two days after the event 
took place. 

" Oh, madam, she is no more ! On Tuesday the 15th, she 
expired at 11 o'clock at night." " Were it not for the assurance 
I have of her felicity, 1 thiuk it would not be possible for me 
to exist." To Mrs. Winnington (boru Foley) she wrote, Wed- 



1 Madame d'Arblay related, in her Memoirs of Dr. Burney, that a message 
had been delivered to her from Mrs. Delany after her death by Mrs. Astley. 



icsci 



OF Mi;s. DELANY, 48] 

lay. 16th April—" Last night, at five minutes before cloven, 
1 lost — my — best — my — dearest friend, in my ever-blessed, ever- 
regretted Aunt Delany." 

The blow, under which Miss Port nearly sunk, was so stunning 
that, with the exception of a few circumstances relating to Mrs. 
Delany and herself, she did not afterwards retain a distinct recol- 
lection o\' all the details of that most afflicting period ; but on 
perusing the history of it, given by Madame d'Arblay forty-jour 
mart afterwards in the life of Dr. JBurney, she was so utterly 
astonished at finding a circumstantial narration of things she had 
never witnessed or ever heard before, and which she did not be- 
thai she wrote to Mrs. Agnew, (then alive,) to obtain the testi- 
mony of her recollections with regard to the last hours of Mrs. 
Delany, the result of which has been given in the foregoing pages. 1 

In conformity with her will, that as little expense should be 
incurred in her burial as decency would permit, "no matter 
wh re" she was interred in a vault in the church of St. James's, 
in which parish her house was situated, on a column in which 
church there is a tablet to her memory, with an epitaph written 
by Dr. Hurd, Bishop of Worcester. 

NEAR THTS TLACE, LIE THE REMAINS OF 

MARY DELANY, 

DAUGHTER OF BERNARD GRANVILLE, 
AND NIECE OF GEORGE GRANVILLE, LORD LANSDOWNE. 

SHi: WAS MARRIED, 1ST, TO ALEXANDER PENDARYES, OF ROSCROW, IN THE 

COUNTY OF CORNWALL, ESQ.; 

AND 2ND, TO PATRICK DELANY, D.D, DEAN OF DOWN, IN IRELAND 

SHE WAS BORN MAY 14, 1 700, AND DIED APRIL 15, 1 788. 

SHE WAS A LADY OF SINGULAR INGENUITY AND POLITENESS, AND OF UNAFFECTED 

piety. These qualities endeared her through life to many noble and 
excellent persons and made the close of it illustrious by procuring for 
her many signal marks of grace and favour from their majesties. 



1 Mrs. Agnew wrote these recollections of Mrs. Delany's last hours, from 
her house, 21, Park Street, Windsor, where she was living, in the full 
possession of her faculties, 15th Dec, 1832, the date of the letter from 
which the preceding extracts were taken. 



482 LIFE AND CORRESPONDENCE OF MRS. DELANY. 

The tomb has long closed over the earthly remains of Mary 
Granville, and the Editor feels grieved that she can do no 
more towards effecting the object which she has had in view for 
many years, and which determined her to undertake the present 
work. Having inherited an intense veneration for the character 
of Mary Granville, (to whose precepts and example her own 
mother considered she owed more than she could ever express,) 
who had never been represented in her true and proper posi- 
tion, and whose merit and abilities were almost unknown in the 
present century, the Editor believed that the history of her life 
as unfolded in her own autobiography and correspondence, 
and illustrated by oral tradition from the reign of Queen Anne 
to that of George III. would be the best method of doing justice 
to her memory. The end of this self-imposed task is now at hand ! 
whether the result intended has been attained or not it will ever 
be a source of satisfaction to the Editor to feel that she has done 
her best and all that it was in her power to accomplish, and if the 
reader is not finally impressed with the conviction that the re- 
nowned lineage and uncommon beauty of Mary Granville were 
far excelled by her virtues and her talents — that her unaffected 
humility and extensive benevolence equalled the dignity of her 
manners, and the refinement of her mind — that her religion was 
as practical as it was fervent, and her devoted loyalty not inferior 
to her heroic progenitors — the fault is to be attributed to the 
Editor, but not to the subject of the work. 

To those who may have been interested in the various scenes 
in which Mary Granville has borne a part either under her own 
ancestral name or that of Pendarves or Delany, it is due to give 
abstracts from her will, together with some other particulars, 
without which her history would not be complete, but which, 
from being miscellaneous, will more properly appear in the follow- 
ing Appendix. 



APPENDIX. 



The commencement of Mrs. Delany's will is characteristic of 
her mind and disposition : — 

" /, Mary Belany, being, God be praised, in good health, but 

» nsible of mortality, do make and ordain this my last Will and 

iment: To be buried with as little ceremony and expense as 

■>/ will allow, indifferent where, but to give as little trouble as 

. Her will was dated Bulstrode, 22nd Febry., 1778. 

After directing any debts to be paid, she leaves legacies to her 

servants, including her own maid, Ann Motley, to whom she 

left all her wearing apparel and body linen that had been 

Washed and once worn, with certain exceptions of embroidery 

and lace and the work of friends, and all her fur and feather 

muffs and tippets, which were bequeathed to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

To her "dearest friend" the Duchess of Portland, (then alive,) 
she left the Holy Family, in crayons, painted by herself, after 
Trevasani ; the Woman and Child (oval), in oils, after Guido ; two 
Italian pieces (beggars), Scaglioni ; two small pieces in water-colour 
(ruins), Ricci ; Liotard, 1 by himself (crayons), in a large square 
shagreen case; a book of paintings of fish; any flowers she 
selects out of " what I call ■ Ehret's Booh; or any other pictures of 
my paintingr besides those already named ; also her choice of 
shells and fossils, and the collection of plants « I used to call my 
Hortus Siccus paper mosaic ;" but when no longer an amusement 
to her to go to Mr. Court Dewes and his heirs. 

« These trifles"(she proceeds to say) u are offered as a small tes- 

. John Stephen Liote^b^t Geneva in 1702. He painted admirably 
in enamel, and his colouring in enamel, as also in crayon and miniature, 
was excellent. Liotard etched some plates of portraits, among which was 
that of himself with a long beard and turban. 



484 APPENDIX. 

timony of gratitude for unbounded and unwearied friendship for 
above 40 years." And she adds, " It is, and will be to my last 
sensible moment, my constant and earnest prayer that that great 
ay id good Providence who blessed me with such an inestimable friend, 
will guide, support, and bless her through this vale of tears till she 
meets a lasting reward, hoping, in all humility, that we shall meet 
where only true joy is to be found." 

She then proceeds to state that the Duchess of Portland, un- 
asked, advanced 400?. at the time she purchased her house in 
St. James's Place, for which the Duchess had her bond, the dis- 
charge of which is ordered by the will. She also mentions that 
thef Duchess would never receive the interest. 

To Lady Weymouth she leaves her sketch of Charity (crayons), 
after Paris Bourdon, 1 and 'the Holy Family (crayons), after 
Trevisani. 2 

To the Countess of Stamford she left the Madonna and Child 
(oval), in oils, after Guido, and the scarlet bowls mounted in 
gilding with china flowers, given by the Duchess of Portland. 

To the Countess Gower the blue and white cup and saucer, 
Dresden, out of which she used to drink her tea, and a pair of 
white china bottles with raised flowers. 

To the Countess of Bute, the Three Marys at the Tomb, after 
Salvator Rosa, and the Raising of Lazarus. 

To Mrs. Boscawen, " my good and kind friend;' the Madonna in 
the blue veil (crayons), after Guido, and two saucers of old japan 
china, with the two blue glass bottles that used to stand in them 
with flowers, and the picture of Hagar and Ishmael. 

To the Viscountess Andover, the portrait of King Charles the 
First, after Vandyke, and the landscape, after Salvator Rosa. 

To her daughter, Miss Frances Howard, the amber box full of 
carmine, " which was turned and given to me by the late Duke of 
Portland;' also the Holy Family, by Raphael. 



1 Bourdon (Sebastian), born 1616, died at Paris in 1671. He painted 
the Crucifixion of St. Peter, for the church of Notre Dame at Paris, which 
established his reputation. 

2 Trevisani (Angelo), a native of Venice, painted both portraits and 
historical pictures. He lived about 1760. 



APPENDIX 486 

To the Viscountess Wallingford, the Angel looking at the 

Lily, a pair of japan china bottles, and Ladjf Weymouth's draw- 
ing in chalks. 

To Mr. Frederic Montague, the portrait of Madame de Sevigne, 
m oil, copied after one in the possession of Mr. Horace Walpole. 

She bequeathed to " my dear Mrs. Sandford one hundred 
momds" and mentions that she had intended a much larger sum, 
but that unexpected circumstances and nearer claims prevented 
the fulfilment of that intention. She also left to Mrs. Sandford 
an inlaid chest of drawers out of her drawing-room, and the por- 
trait of Mrs. Letitia Bushe > in crayons. 

To Master Thomas Sandford, the picture of Mrs. Sandford and 
Mrs. Preston together, and her " silver standish." 

To Master Daniel Sandford, 1 Wilks and Abin on Butterflies, 
and to Thomas, Daniel, John, and William Sandford, five guineas 
each, to buy a book or whatever they pleased. 

To Mrs. Hamilton, of Summer Hill, the china bottle set in 
gold, left by Mrs. Isabella Sutton, and the medallion of Sir 
William Hamilton and Mr. Edward Hamilton. 

To her nephew, Mr. J. Dewes (afterwards Mr. Granville of Cal- 
wich), the following portraits : " My father and mother and my 
brother" (Bernard Granville,) Lady Johanna Thornhill leaning 
on her hand, by Wright, Lady Stanley, by Huysman (the 
above all in oil), Lady Dysart, Lord Granville's daughter, by 
Pond (crayons). 

To Mrs. J. Dewes, five guineas to buy a ring. 

To her nephew, Bernard Dewes, 300Z. and the black ebony 
cabinet " which formerly belonged to King William" a desk with 
a case for papers over it, and the net-work mahogany table in 
the drawing-room ; also her father and mother's portrait, in oils, 
when very young, the two landscapes that hang under them, and 
the landscape with cattle, in oil, by Wootton f also the small 
landscape by Wootton, with the lady on horseback, and the fruit- 
piece with the bird ; also Calmet's Dictionary, 3 vols, folio ; Col- 

1 Her godson, afterwards Bishop of Edinburgh. 

2 John Wootton, a celebrated English painter of horses and landscapes. 
He died in 1765. 



48G APPENDIX. 

lier's Dictionary, ditto ; Sir Walter Raleigh's History of the World, 
folio ; Ogilvy's iEsop ; ditto Virgil ; and the History of China, 
with Hollar's prints ; Bayle's Dictionary, folio : Sherlock's, New- 
ton's and Hurd's Works ; and the deal cabinet of shell fossils, 
and any other fossils that the Duchess of Portland does not 
choose ; but any duplicates to be given to Master Daniel Sand- 
ford, with the little flat case now screwed up against the wall in 
the closet in her bedchamber ; Bernard Dewes also to have the 
drawers with corals, <l if he chooses it" also his brother Court 
Dewes's portrait, in oils, and duplicates of music and other books 
not otherwise disposed of. 

To Mrs. Port, of Ham, the shells not chosen by the Duchess of 
Portland ; and what she did not choose to go to Mrs. Sandford, 

To her great niece, Anne Dewes, the picture in water-colours 
of flowers with the vine frame. 

To her eldest nephew, Court Dewes, her silver tea-vase, all her 
gold, silver, and copper coins and medals, and casts; all her 
books of botany and natural history (except Physique Sacre', left 
to Mrs. Port of Ham) ; also the copy after Claude Lorraine, Lord 
Mansfield's print given by himself, the Liber Veritatis, after the 
original sketches by Claude Lorraine, Crouzat's collection of 
prints, first impression, very scarce, 2 vols, folio ; 2 vols, of 
portraits of remarkable persons, one lettered " different masters" 
the other buff binding, with the figure 7 ; Hollar's prints, 
(different sizes) 3 vols ; the Ruins of Baalbek and Palmyra, old 
historical prints, 2 large vols, folio. 

Also to Mr. Court Dewes, Dr. Delany's portrait by Soldi, 
"now over my bedchamber chimney, as I know he was very sensible 
of the merit of the original, whose genius so well employed his learn- 
ing, and whose liberality and piety were exemplary and inestimable ;" 
also the picture of the Duchess of Queensbury, and the choice of 
one hundred books not already disposed of ; the two pictures of 
Ruins, by Marco Ricci, 1 and one hundred guineas. 

Mrs. Delany after an acknowledgment of Mr. Court Dewes's 



1 Marco Ricci, nephew of Sebastiano Ricci, a Venetian painter. Marco 
Ricci painted the Last Supper, in the Chapel at Bulstrode; and died at 
Venice, 1730. 



APPENDIX. 1ST 

kind and filial attention to her, as well as that of his brothers 
ami his sister, adds these words: — "7 hope they will rejoice and 
n<>t mourn when it 'phases Grod to r from this world at an 

when infirmities and pain must daily increase. May the// 
always preserve that friendship and union with one another which 
it hath ever been in// delight to encourage, and I pray God to 
support, guide, and bless them and their families. I also give to 
Mr. Court D< wes the portrait of his mother in oils." 

Mrs. Delany leaves to her brother-in-law Mr. Dewes of Wels- 
hman, (still alive,) 1 ten guineas to buy a ring; also five guineas 
each to Mrs. Mary and Mrs. Anne Viney, for the same purpose, 
or anything else they please ; to Mrs. Ravaud of Bath was be- 
queathed .Mrs. Delany's painting in crayons of Rachel and Leah 
at the Well ; and to Mrs. Shelley a japan box in the shape of a 
heart. To Dr. Hurd, Bishop of Lichfield and Coventry, the head 
of our Saviour (oil), to Dr. Ross, Bishop of Exeter, the picture 
of the Angel looking up with expanded wings, after Guido 
(oil) ; and to the Earl of Dartmouth the Angel with the hands 
across, after Guido (oil) ; to the Rev. Mr. Mason, Sacharissa's 
portrait copied after the original by Vandyke, " which she gave to 
h' r poet Mr. Waller, and is now at Beacons/field." 

After this bequest Mrs. Delany gives as a reason that " these 
much esteemed friends may sometimes recollect a person ivho was so 
s> visible of the honour of their friendship, and who delighted so 
much in their conversation and ivorhs, to be transcribed and sent 
with the pictures." 

She alludes to the Chancery suit in which she was then in- 
volved in Ireland, and which had been going on from the time of 
the Dean of Down's death, and desires that if it should appear 
after all expenses and lawful demands are paid with regard to 
that suit, that there is in the judgment of her executor, Mr. 
Court Dewes, a sufficient balance in her favour, that he will pay 
the Rev. Luke George of Ireland, nephew to the late Dean of 
Down, the sum of 100£ in trust for the sole use of Mrs. Bridget 

1 17 



488 APPENDIX. 

Barber if then living, if not for her daughter if then living ; but if 
the suit did not end in Mrs. Delany's favour, then only five 
guineas to each. Also if the suit ends in her favour the sum of 
100L is to be remitted, which has been in the hands of Mr. 
Rupert Barber (husband to the said Bridget) several years, and 
has never been accounted for, and that the said Bridget is to 
receive, without dispute, the above named legacy. 

To Dr. Turton, ten guineas to buy a ring. 

To Thomas Pitt, of Boconnoc, Esq., the portrait of Sir Bernard 
Granville, and his son Sir Bevil Granville, 1 and his wife, "who 
were my ancestors ; but as I received them from the said Thomas 
Pitt, Esq. I look upon them as his property, to dispose of as he 
thinks jit, otherwise I should have wished to have left them to the 
successor of the remaining fortune of the family — my nephew 
Dewes, whose mother was great-grand-daughter to Sir Bevil Gran- 
ville. This is my last Will and Testament, written by my own 
hand in the 79th year of my age, on the 22nd of February 1778. 
Witness my hand, M. D. 

The above extracts contain all the principal points of interest. 
The disposition of her property is omitted, as it was after-wards 
altered and revoked by codicils, of which there were twelve added 
later at different intervals. In which codicils she leaves ad- 



1 The following lines, composed by Dr. Llewelyn, (1643,) appear on the 
monument to Sir Bevil, erected to his memory in Kilkhampton Church — 

" And with this constant principle possess' t 
He did alone expose his single breast 
Against an armies' force, and bleeding lay, 
Tlie Great Bestorer of th' declining day. 
Tims slain, thy valiant ancestor did lie, 
When his one barque a navy durst defye : 
Wlien now encompass' d round, the victor stood, 
And bath'd his pinnace in his conquering blood, 
Till all his purple current dried and spent, 
He fell, and left the waves his monument. 
Where shall the next fam'd Grenvtle's ashes stand ? 
Thy grandsire fills the sea, and thou the land." 



APPENDIX. -189 

ditional bequests, and makes a final disposition of the whole 
of her property in trust for the benefit of Mrs. Port, of Ham, 
and after her death one half to her great niece, Georgina Mary 
Ann Port, and the other half to be equally divided between her 
three younger sisters. 

After the death of the Duchess of Portland the picture in 
crayons of Liotard. by himself was left to Mr. Horace Walpole. To 
Mrs. Dewes, (afterwards Granville,) she bequeathed a japan snuff- 
box set in gold. To her niece, G. M. A. Port, the locket with 
the Queen's hair set in pearls, and the cameo of the King set in 
brilliants. To her niece, Anne Dewes, an ivory case with two 
smelling bottles ; to Lady Clanbrassil, the Two Boys and the 
Lamb after Guido ; to Miss Foley, Lord Clanbrassil's seal with 
his head, and a Dresden china cup and saucer with sprigs of 
flowers ; to Mrs. Wilmington a gold urn with essense of roses ; 
to Mrs. Dickenson the picture of St. Catherine after Paul 
Veronese, in crayons ; to Mrs. Fountayne a locket with a weep- 
ing-willow, given by Mrs. Montague, and a Dresden china soup 
basin, cover and plate ; to Lord Guilford the picture of the 
Transfiguration in oil, after Carlo Maratti, " or if he died first to 
go to Lady Willoughby ;" to her waiting woman, Anne Astley, 
Mrs. Delany left her own silver hand-candlestick, and the chest 
of drawers in her (A. A.'s) room. The above codicils were 
dated July 1785, the year of the Duchess of Portland's death. 
The following year a codicil was added, desiring the picture of 
! Grapes, painted by Michael Angelo Caravaggio, might after her 
decease be presented to the King as a small offering of the 
gratitude she felt to her last moments for His Majesty's un- 
bounded goodness at the time of her deepest distress. 

She leaves all her plate, japan, and china (not previously disposed 

i of; to her great-niece, Georgiana Mary Ann Port. The above be- 

i quest is a separate codicil, dated " 1787, my birthday. M. D." 

In another codicil, " Windsor, 17th July, 1787," she leaves 

all the contents of her closet at Windsor also to her niece, 

( r. M. A. Port, and bequeathes the print and frame of the Two 

Princes to Mr. Court Dewes. 

PART II. — VOL. 111. 2 K 



490 APPENDIX. 

The 10th codicil contains the bequest to Lady Weymouth of 
the fine enamel portrait of Petito by himself. (It will be re- 
membered that this was a bequest of the Duchess of Portland's 
to Mrs. Delany.) 

To Lady Stamford, the two small square pictures of the Mice, 
by Raphael. (This was also left to Mrs. Delany by the Duchess 
of Portland.) 

To her niece, Ann Dewes, her gold pincushion given by the 
Queen. 

After this bequest are the following words : — 

" I bequeath to Miss Burney the two medallions of the King and 
Queen now in my closet at Windsor, also Sacharissa, in oil, a 'por- 
trait of my own painting" 

These are the only words in relation to Miss Burney through- 
out the Will. It is scarcely necessary to remark, that Madame 
d'Arblay quoted the expressions appended to the bequests made 
to Dr. Hurd, Bishop of Lichfield and Coventry, the Bishop of 
Exeter, the Earl of Dartmouth, and Mr. Mason the Poet, as ad- 
dressed to herself, but those words were written in relation 
to the above-named persons six years before Mrs. Delany ever saw 
Miss Burney I viz., 22nd February, 1778. That the picture 
of Sacharissa, left to Miss Burney without comment (nine years 
afterwards), was the same portrait which had previously been left 
to Mr. Mason seems to be impossible ; J it must have been another 
copy of the same picture, and a memorandum to this effect exists 
in the handwriting of the Editor's mother, stating that Mrs. 
Delany painted three copies of Sacharissa after Vandyke. 

The I lth codicil is as follows : — " I have wished, if not attended 
with too much trouble and expense, that the round painted window 
now in my drawing-room, St. James s Place, should be put up in 
the middle arch window of the great room at Calwich in Stafford- 
shire, lately belonging to Bernard Granville, Esq., if the present 
possessor t the Rev. Mr. Dewes, has no objection to it ; it is the only 



1 The bequest to Mr. Mason was not revoked, arid he survived Mrs. 
Delany nine years. 



APPENDIX, 



493 



monument I desire may be put up for me t DATED THE day of my 
death. I would have the round piece of glass with the Dove {now 
in the middle of the large round) taken careful/// out, and the 
Granville Ajrms {three Horseman* Hosts only), painted in their 
proper colours on glass, inserted in the place of the Dove. As I 
appreJi.nl that the arch of the window is rather pointed, I should 
think it would admit of the Dove ivithout the red and green border, 
which must remain where it is, above the large round, in the manner 
of this sketch. 



The letters of the 
name and figures 
are made too large 
in proportion ; that 
may be altered as 
Mr. Loton pleases. 
Mr. Loton, glazier, 
in King Street, 
Westminster, is the 
person that has 
placed it where it 
7i" w is, and I have 

The 12th codicil was to bequeath her harpsichord 1 to her 
niece, G. M. A. Port, and all her written music-books, which 
harpsichord must have been often played upon by Handel, as 
well as by herself and Mr. Granville.) 

To Queen Charlotte Mrs. Delany presented (or desired to be 
presented after her death) an enamel picture of the Duchess of 
Portland, in a box of papier mache. The Duchess's hair in a 
cypher, and her coronet, were on the lid, under a glass sur- 
mounted with pearls. Queen Charlotte had also the selection of 




reason to think is 
very honest as well 
as ingenious. If 
you send him the 
exact dimensions of 
the window on 
paper, and a copy 
of this sketch, I 
believe he will alter 
and fit it very well. 

Mary Delany/' 



1 A harpsichord had previously been left to Mr. Court Dewes ; but it 
must have been another harpsichord, and probably the present bequest 
^vas her own particular instrument. 

2 k 2 



492 APPENDIX. 

twenty of Mrs. Delany's flowers in paper mosaic. The ultimate 
fate of these flowers the Editor has not been able to discover. 

Altho' this is the conclusion of a true history, it will be more 
satisfactory to those who have perused it to add (as is the cus- 
tom in works of fiction) a few pages of information with respect 
to some of the persons who have been so continually brought 
under notice, that interest is naturally excited to know how they 
felt, or what they said, after the death of the individual, who 
had been so long connected or associated with Ihemselves and 
their daily habits of life. Few letters have been preserved 
written after the event of Mrs. Delany's death, but among them 
are those of Lady Stamford and Lady Weymouth, with an allu- 
sion from the former to the bequests of Mrs. Delany to herself, 
and the high value which would be placed upon any token of 
her regard. She also speaks of the sincere share she has taken 
in the great affliction of her niece, and her hope that God will 
support her. Lady Tweeddale ] wrote to Miss Port from Ham 2 
on the 18th of April, 1788. She was then the last survivor of 
her generation, and as has appeared in the present work, she 
was the cousin Mrs, Delany most Valued, after the death of 
Louisa Carteret, Lady Weymouth ; and the one whose repeated 
trials, from the loss of her children, had excited her deep and 
continued sympathy. Lady Tweeddale says : " I fear your health 
will be impaired with the late melancholy scene, and the great 
loss you have sustained, which none of your friends or relations 
partake of more sincerely than 1 do ; but as our loss is Tier gain, 
that must be our consolation ! If you should like to come to 
me here, I would fetch you. You would be quite retired, (as I do 
not see any company,) and the air is good. I will only add, 
I am your affec te cousin, 

F. Tweeddale." 



1 Frances, Marchioness of Tweeddale, youngest daughter of Earl Gran- 
ville, by Frances Worsley, his first wife. 

2 Ham House, Petersham, Surrey. 



APPENDIX. 493 

From Lady Clanbrassil there were two or three letters, enclos- 
ing one from her sister Mrs. Winnington. She, it will be re- 
membered, was of a later generation than Lady Tweeddale, being 
the daughter of Grace Granville, (Mrs. Foley,) and consequently 
the granddaughter of George, Lord Lansdown. She also ap- 
pears to have been deeply attached to Mrs. Delany. She writes 
from 9 Great 1 Stanhope Street in a manner which proves that she 
was truly penetrated by her loss, and she expresses her hope that 
she may be able to testify her regard by conducing in some way 
to the consolation of her niece, who she hopes will accept her 
friendship, not merely from relationship but from the happiness it 
would be to herself to be able to testify affection for the sake of 
her who was gone. " Religion alone," (she adds,) " can calm such 
an affliction, and the thought of the selfishness of our lamenta- 
tions oujyht likewise to weigdi with us." 

Mrs. Corawallis 2 (sister of Sir Horace Mann) writes, re- 
peatedly, in a tone of deep feeling. She says that she "not only 
condoles, but most feelingly shares the irreparable loss, as every- 
body must do who had the happiness to know Mrs. Delany ;" 
that " she was lent so long for their sakes, but was now taken 
away for her own, and was, it could not be doubted, enjoying the 
reward of a life spent as her's had been." 

Mrs. Weddell 3 was another friend whose sentiments were pre- 
served in writing. She speaks of the love she bore Mrs De- 
lany, and endeavours to persuade her niece to leave St. James's 
Place, and to come and remain with her in Stratton Street. 

Mrs. Cole, (whose name is so repeatedly mentioned by Mrs. 
Boscawen.) records, on the 29th of April, her recollections of 



1 Then called " Stanhope Street" only. 

- Catherine Mann, wife of the Hon. and Eight Kev. James Cornwallis, 
Bishop of Lichfield, son of the 1st Earl Cornwallis, who afterwards suc- 
ceeded as 4th Earl, daughter of Galfridus Mann of Egerton, and sister of 
Sir Horace .Mann, (the friend of Horace Walpole) and mother of James 
Mann, oth Earl of Cornwallis. 

1 Mrs. Weddell. Elizabeth, daughter of Sir John Ramsden, married, in 
1771. William Weddell, Esq., of Newby. 



494 APPENDIX. 

" those agreeable days past and gone, which received their highest 
zest from her whose loss we all lament ! Providence lent her long, 
very long, a blessing to those she honoured with her friendship 
or her acquaintance, and therefore severely should we feel her 
loss ; but we must not repine, that would be ingratitude, for the 
remembrance of her will be a lasting source of pleasure and a 
safe guide through life. " 

Lady Louisa Clayton, on hearing of the death of Mrs. Delany, 
wrote : " Now that it has pleased God your anxieties for her have 
ended, let me know if by coming I can be of the smallest use or 
comfort. My sweet Emily, by being taken first, has been spared 
some pangs of tenderness she would have felt for you at this 
time." She also expressed the feelings of her sister, Lady 
Charlotte Finch, on the loss of Mrs. Delany. 

Lady Juliana Penn transmitted by the hand of her daughter, 1 
what her sister Lady Louisa Clayton had written for herself, — 
saying that "there were no friends of Mrs. Delany's who could 
more sincerely sympathise than those in Spring Gardens/' 2 

Miss Fountayne, 3 the niece of Mr. Frederick Montague, for 
whom Mrs. Delany always had so great a regard, wrote in terms 
that proved the sincerity of her sympathy. 

One letter has been preserved from a Mrs. Harrington, who was 
at that time a dame at Eton to young John Granville of Calwich, 
the great-nephew of Mrs. Delany, in whom she took deep interest, 
and whom she had with her a great deal at Windsor. He gave 



1 Sophia Margaret, second daughter of Thomas Penn, Esq., and Lady 
Juliana, third daughter of the 1st Earl of Pomfret, married 1796, the Hon. 
and Rev. William Stuart, D.D., Archbishop of Armagh, 5th son of John, 
3rd Earl of Bute. She was mother of the present Dowager Countess of 
Eanfurley (1861). 

2 * k Spring Gardens.'" This delightful house is now the corner of New 
Street, Spring Gardens, and belongs (1861) to General Sir Wm, Gomm. 
It was inherited by John, the eldest surviving son of Mr. and Lady Juliana 
Penn, and at his death was possessed by his brother, Granville Penn, Esq., 
whose daughter Sophia was the first wife of Sir William Gomm, who m., 
2dly, Elizabeth Anne, dau. of Lord Robert Kerr. 

3 Catherine Judith, youngest daughter of Dr. Fountayne, Dean of York, 
and niece of Frederic Montagu, Esq., died at Bath, March 3rd, 1824. 



APPENDIX, 495 

the promise of every excellence she could desire, and the follow- 
ing account written to his mother, proves that he was deeply 
attached to her. Mrs. Harrington thus writes from Eton, 20th 
April. 17< S > S . to his mother, Mrs. Granville : — 

"The young gentleman is very well, yet not without the 
most sensible feelings for the loss of that most good lady Mrs. 
Delany. The first of his hearing it was by Mr. Roberts, just as 
be was coming out of school, who only told him ' Mrs. Delany is 
dead, 1 The dear child came instantly to me as I was sitting at 
work, and in his usual manner when anything does not go plea- 
sant with him, said, * Mrs Harrington,' and looked grave; of 
course 1 said, 'What's the matter?' As oppressed as he cou'd 
possibly be, he said, ' I have heard bad news, very bad, indeed? 
To relieve him I reply'd, I imagined what it was ; he said ' What V 
Then I said, ' Poor Mrs. Delany.' He instantly lean'd his dear 
little head on my shoulder, and cried very much, truly afflicted ; 
and indeed he was so much so that I thought it better to indulge 
him in his grief a little while, and so I told him had she lived her 
age was so great that she could not have enjoyed life, &c. : Mrs. 
Roberts came soon after to inquire about him, and took him to 
dinner ; he is gone there again to-day, I told y r dear son that he 
undoubtedly had lost a most valuable friend, but I did not point 
out to him his immediate loss, in losing many comfortable days 
during his being at school ; he is now very cheerful excepting 
when her name is mentioned. 

11 Give me leave, madam, to say, I am sorry for y. loss, but it is 
everybody's loss who knew her. I have a loss, for it is impos- 
sible to say what pleasure I had in giving her satisfaction in my 
care of y r young gentleman. Her goodness used to apologise for 
• troubling me,' (as she call'd it,) by her great anxiety for her 
■dear nephew. I felt myself honour'd by receiving her commands 
and directions, and great pleasure in observing them. I shall 
not forget the continuance of them to Master Granville." 

The career of the much -prized John Granville was very short. 
He died of decline at nineteen (1800), leaving his parents child- 
less. The following lines were written by his father, and en- 



496 APPENDIX. 

graved on a slate which was kept in a wooden case at the back 
of a seat under an old beech-tree at Calwich, on which young 
Granville had carved his own initials, in the centre of a row 
leading to a romantic spot known as Cabin Knowl. 

When Lycidas,' intent on rural fame, 

Grav'd on the smooth rind of this spreading beech, 

The dear initials of his fleeting name, 

He stretch' d his fancy to its utmost reach 

Of pious resolution, both to guard 

And nurse these groves, as his fond sire had done. 

Ah, me ! how great their gain had he been spar'd ! 

How great their loss, now Lycidas is gone ! 

Yet shall a future master of these trees, 

Of kindred blood, 2 and kindred mind the same. 

Struck by the record which he passing sees, 

Protect their honour and respect his name ! 

For they surviv'd that storm, and ruin wide, 

Which sunk poor Calwich, — when her darling died] 

■ ' J. G., 1800. 

Miss Beckingham (afterwards Mrs. Montagu^) and her father 
and mother, were also amongst those whose expressions proved 
that they knew the value of Mrs. Delany's friendship ; but per- 
haps there was not one of her survivors, who more thoroughly 
appreciated her character, and retained a more lasting sense of 
the extent of her loss, than Lady Bute. She did not content 
herself with merely expressing her own grief, and offering per- 
sonal sympathy and condolence ; but she continued to write, and 
some extracts from one letter are here given, not merely be- 
cause everything which relates to the daughter of Lady Mary 
Wortley Montague, and to the wife of the Minister, Lord Bute, 
excites interest ; but because the opinions expressed and the 
advice given, are much more wanted in the present age than in 
the one in which the letter was composed. 

Lady Bute says : "You are but just entering into life, and be ' 



1 The late J ohn Granville. 

2 Calwich was inherited and sold by Court, the son of Bernard, who was 
brother of the writer of these lines. 

3 Dorothy Charlotte, daughter of Stephen Beckingham, Esq., married 
George, Viscount Hinchinbroke, eldest son of John, 5th Earl of Sandwich 



APPENDIX 497 

lieve me whatever goo*.! advice or assistance you may have, that 
much of your future happiness depends upon yourself, Nature 
Beems to have boon bountiful both to person and to mind, but 
the benefit of these advantages rests entirely on the use that 
you make of them. A modest natural cheerfulness adds charm 
to beauty and good sense, while affectation and pretence to wit 
destroy the effect of both. Indolence is not an uncommon fault 
at your age, and perhaps it is one of the most pernicious in its 
consequences, and this I beg you carefully to guard against. 
You have several accomplishments for your amusement ; but 
L would earnestly recommend to you, not to neglect the less gen- 
teel employment of good housewifery, which in my opinion is neces- 
wary for a woman in whatever station of life she is placed. If cir- 
cumstances are not affluent, it is indispensable ; but if they are, 
many comforts arise from regularity and order in the conduct of 
those affairs which are usually under a woman's direction, whether 
mistress of a family or not. Sensible men are more likely to 
have serious thoughts of young ladies whom they observe to be 
neatly dressed, unaffected in behaviour, with good humour, and 
attentive to economy, than of indolent and accomplished beauties ! 
Music and drawing are rational and agreeable amusements, but 
they are amusements only. Let me hear from you again — forgive 
this sermon, it is meant as a proof of real regard." 

Lady Bute induced Mrs I)elany to sit a second time to 
Opie that he might paint a portrait for her from life, in 
exactly the same dress and position as the picture he had 
painted by the command of King George III. and Queen Char- 
lotte, and which during their lives was hung in their bedchamber 
at Windsor Castle, and is now at Hampton Court. Both these 
portraits were considered two of Opie's finest works, and it is 
from the one painted for Lady Bute, that the engraving is taken 
which makes the frontispiece of the 1st vol. of the present work. 
After the death of Mrs. Delany, Horace Walpole 1 (who always 
appears to have formed a very high and just estimate of her 

1 Mrs. Delany is one of the few contemporaries of Horace Walpole whom 
he spoke of with respect and reverence. 



■ >w- "J? 










*3 'f^^h*^ ffatoM*}iyp^*£, 









*Kt 






tM^^f*^ sh-ty 0^ <"£*, 



>A 



/ 



A^le^^sA ^"ty/ftff 



APPENDIX. 499 

son Court Dewes, who had succeeded his father in the Wells- 
bourn estate, before Mrs. Delany's death, only survived her 
six years. He died unmarried, and was succeeded by his bro- 
ther Bernard, whose son, Court, ultimately inherited the Calwich 
te, 1 and the name, from his uncle Granville, and that of Wells- 
bourn from his father. The former is now the property of The 
Hon. Augustus Duncombe, Dean of York. Wellsbourn still be- 
longs to his son, Bernard Granville, great-grandnephew of Mrs. 
Delany, whose eldest son. Bevil Granville, was one of the few 
officers in the regiment of the gallant Welsh Fusileers, who sur- 
vived the battle of the Alma, 9 



LIST OF PICTURES PAINTED BY MBS. DELANY JN OILS 
AND CRAYONS. 

Portrait of Sacharissa, from Vandyke. The original picture 
was given by Dorothea, Countess of Sutherland, to her poet 
Waller. Bequeathed by Mrs. Delany to the Rev. William 
Mason, the poet. 

A second copy was given to the Duchess of Portland, and left 
by her to Mrs. Port, of Ham. 

A third copy, painted by Mrs. Delany, was bequeathed by her 
to Miss Burney, the authoress, afterwards Madame d'Arblay. 

St. Catherine, in crayons ; from Paul Veronese. Left to 
Mrs. Dickenson (born Hamilton). 

Summer, in crayons ; from Rosalba. The original now in the 
Louvre, Paris. 

A Madonna in a blue veil, believed to be after Guido, crayons. 

Hagar and Ishmael. 

Charity, after Bourdon. Crayons. 

Holy Family, after Trevisani. Crayons. 



1 The house at Calwich built by Mrs. Delany's brother, Mr. Granville, on 
the site of the old Abbey, is razed to the ground, and a new house built in 
another situation. 

- The old prophecy which used to be kept in the Abbey of Nedd 
( 1 V 0), stated that the Granvilles would Buffer great reverses till the time 
of a King Charles — that they would then recover some of their former 
grandeur, again decline — but later again revive. 



500 APPENDIX. 

Sigismunda, crayons (a chef d'ceuvre). See account of the 
original, vol ii., page 261. 

Angel and Lily. Crayons. 

Anne Granville, Mrs. Dewes. Crayons, from life. 

Mary, the Maid of the Inn. Crayons. 

Rachel and Leah at the Well. Crayons. 

Our Saviour and St. John, and a Lamb, after Guido. 
Crayons. 

Another St. Catherine, mentioned by Mrs. Hamilton as in her 
possession, and in her house in Dublin, in 1 750. 

Picture of Mrs. Sandford and Mrs. Preston (in one piece). 

Portrait of Letitia Bushe. Crayons, from life. 

A picture of Mary, Queen of Scots, painted at Hollymount 
from an old portrait. 

The Duke of Ormond, after Sir Peter Lely. Oils. 

A picture of Mrs. Granville, daughter of Sir Martin Westcomb. 
Oils. 

A second picture of Mrs. Granville. Oils. 

The Duchess of Mazarine's picture, from Sir Peter Lely. 

Another picture of the Duchess of Mazarine, half-length ; 
given to Miss Bushe. Oils. 

An Angel, after Guido. Oils. 

A drawing to illustrate "The Allegro," described by Mrs. 
Delany as an imitation (or illustration) of Handel's " Let me 
wander, &c," (vol. ii., page 451.) 

Portrait of Lady Johanna Thornhill (daughter of Sir Bevil 
Granville). Oils, after Wright. 

A portrait of King Charles the First, after Vandyke. 

Another copy of Charles the First. Oils. 

A Madonna and Child, after Guido. Oils. 

Another Madonna and Child, after Guido. Oils. This was 
the first oil picture ever painted by Mrs. Delany. 

The Three Marys, and the Angel sitting at the Tomb, after 
Salvator "Rosa. Oils. 

The Raising of Lazarus, enlarged from an engraving after 
Rembrandt. Oils. 

A Landscape, after Salvator Rosa. Oils. 






APPENDIX, 501 

The Flight into Egypt Oils. 

The Holv Family, after Raphael. Oils. Almost the same as 
the picture discovered many years ago concealed at Okeover. 

Another Holy Family, after Raphael. Oils. 

An Angel Looking at a Lily, after Guido. Oils. 

Portrait of Madame de Sevigne. Oils. Copied from her 
picture at Strawberry Hill. 

An Angel looking at a Lily, in profile. Oils. 

A third picture of a Angel and Lily. 

Head of our Saviour with the Crown of Thorns, from Carlo 
Dolci. Oils. 

An Angel looking up with expanded wings, after Guido. Oils. 

An Angel with hand across, after Guido. Oils. 

The Marriage of St. Catherine. Oils. 

A second copy of the above painted on copper. 

The Transfiguration, from Carlo Maratti. Oils. 

A Holy Family, after Correggio. Oils. The original picture 
was in the possession of the Portland family. 

The Duchess of Queensbury, from life. Oils. 

Another copy of the Duchess of Queensbury. 

A Tortoiseshell Cat, with a Ball, and Basket of Flowers, from 
life. Oils. 

Two portraits of her father, Colonel Granville. 

Picture of Mary Dewes (Mrs. Port of Ham), and her brother, 
John Dewes (afterwards Granville), from life. Oils. 

Portraits of Court and Bernard Dewes, from life. Oils. 

Singing Boy and Girl. Oils. 

A Barber in a Ruff, from Vandyke. Oils. Left by the 
Duchess of Portland to Mrs. Port of Ham, and given by her to 
Dorothy, Duchess of Portland. 

David and Goliath. Oils. The destination of this picture is 
not known. It was seen in 1799 at the house of Mrs. Vennor, 
at King's Mead, near Charlcote. 

Portrait of a Lady, from Sir Godfrey Kneller, left by the 
Duchess of Portland, to Mrs. Port of Ham. 

Portrait of Dr. Delany, Dean of Down, from life. 



502 APPENDIX. 

The above catalogue of the pictures in crayons and oils painted 
by Mrs. Delany, has been compiled from a written list made from 
recollection by the Editor's mother, from the bequests in Mrs. 
Delany' s will, and from the accounts given by herself in her cor- 
respondence of the pictures she was painting. The total number 
of her pictures was known to be seventy-two, but the Editor 
has been unable to trace above fifty-four. Probably some of 
them were given to friends in Ireland during her residence 
there. 1 

Besides paintings Mrs. Delany executed numberless designs in 
shell-work ; she made a grotto at Sir John Stanley's at North 
End ; another at the Bishop of Clogher's at Killala ; another at 
Calwich ; and another at Delville. The chapel at Delville was orna- 
mented with shell-work, as described in her letters ; and a cornice of 
shell-work still exists there, most beautifully executed. 2 There are 
also now (1862) at Stoke Edith 3 garlands of shell-work on the 
panels of a room, which were done by Mrs. Delany ; who also 
made candelabras of shells for Bulstrode and Delville, and num- 
berless mantel-pieces with Etruscan and other designs in cut 
paper laid upon wood, which had the effect of inlaying. 

Were it possible to give a list of the work designed and executed 
by Mrs. Delany with the needle, independent of the quantity of 
various works in various ways designed by her for her friends to 



1 Within the last ten years a person looking at a house to be let in Dublin 
saw a portrait, which struck her as very beautiful. She was told it was 
" Mrs. Delany" but has no recollection in what street she saw it. 

2 Delville is now the property of the Honourable Francis Clements, who 
kindly allowed Lord Llanover to see the house and grounds (Aug. 1861), 
when he found this cornice in perfect preservation ; and by the aid of a 
ground-plan of the place, obligingly given to the Editor by Mr. Mallet, (who 
possessed it previous to its purchase by Colonel Maude) he was able to trace 
almost all the places described by Mrs. Delany, and found the magnificent 
ever-green oaks still flourishing. From the quantities of shells which were 
on the ground in heaps previous to Colonel Maude's occupation, there 
must have been a great deal of shell-work in various parts of the building 
destroyed by alterations. 

3 StoJce Edith, now the property of Lady Emily Foley. 



APPENDIX. 503 

execute, it would be a much more extraordinary exemplification 
of what man !><■ achieved by human industry and ingenuity, aided 
by natural talent, than the catalogue of her paintings. The 
Editor is not able to give an account of more than the specimens 

of Mrs. Delany's needlework which are in her own possession, 
and that of her sister, and a few other relations. Of these 
art 1 a number of chairs, the backs and seats of which are embroi- 
dered in a manner entirely different to anything that has ever (in 
the knowledge of the Editor) been done for a similar purpose. 
They consist of magnificent groups of flowers from nature, some 
on light and some on dark grounds, all different from each other, 
and all executed in ivorsted chenille, (made upon linen thread ;) 
possessing the finest semi-tones of colour, which produce a 
variety of tint and harmony, as well as depth of colour, 
which never appear in the modern dyes of wool of any de- 
scription. Some of these chairs are worked in embroidery 
stitcli upon canvas, by which means the utmost freedom of 
outline was possible, and the most exact imitation of nature. 
In other sets of chairs cloth was used as the ground upon 
which the outline of the flowers must have been sketched, 
and the shades and colours filled in by sewing down the worsted 
chenilles by the eye, and cutting them off where required. 
These specimens prove Mrs. Delany's marvellous talent for design, 
as well as ability in execution, and are suitable for furniture which 
though ornamental was yet useful ; but there also exist bed hang- 
ings, and chair and sofa covers, which combine in as remarkable 
a manner striking effect with every day utility. Some of these 
were the covers of her drawing-room chairs in London, where the 
ground was brilliant dark blue linen, bordered with leaves cut out 
by herself in white linen, and edged and veined with white 
knotting of different sorts and thickness, sewed down along the 
edge. A bed completed by herself, and her sister Ann Granville, 
was of nankeen, with designs executed in white linen, for the 
headboard and hangings, all different, but well adapted to the 
various parts, and of a washing material, the durability of which 
as well as the excellence of the work is best proved by its en- 



504 APPENDIX. 

durance for near a hundred years in continual use ! Mrs. Delany 
did not employ silk for her furniture, but woollen or linen 
materials ; and the worsted chenilles, made on linen thread, never 
were attacked by the moths : there is now a box of them in the 
Editor's possession left from Mrs. Delany' s work, which are still 
fit for use ; it ought also to be mentioned that all these chenilles 
were wound on two cards folded together by herself in a pecu- 
liar manner, which prevented the chenilles being cut by the 
edges of the cards. 

The specimens still existing of Mrs. Delany 's embroidery in 
silks deserve framing and being put under glass, as a visible 
proof of what embroidery can and ought to be. The following 
specimens are among those yet in perfect preservation : — 

An apron of thick nankeen-coloured silk, embroidered with pur- 
ple and white violets and leaves, in hard twisted silks. It is impos- 
sible to give an idea of the effect by description, but the whole 
may be compared to a very fine painting from nature, very 
much raised from the silk ground ; the stitches being so artfully 
blended together that no divisions are to be seen between them, 
and the shading is equally wonderful. It must be remembered 
that the apron was to wear over a hoop, consequently there was 
very little fulling, but the whole design was to be seen without 
many folds. 

A black silk apron finely embroidered with flowers from 
nature, in the same manner. 

A black satin court petticoat, covered with sprays of natural 
flowers, in different positions, including the bugloss, auriculas, 
honeysuckle, wild-roses, lilies of the valley, yellow and white 
jessamine, interspersed with small single flowers (where too 
much ground would otherwise have appeared). The border at 
the bottom being entirely composed of larger flowers, in the 
manner in which they grow, both garden and wild flowers being 
intermingled where the form, proportions and foliage rendered it 
desirable for the effect of the whole. For instance, the top of an 
upright hollyhock, buds and flowers, with some of the broad green 
leaves are side by side with a wild thistle of the same height, 



APPENDIX, ;~> () "> 

(lit wined with the wild pink convolvolus, also a thick spray of 
wide-leaved myrtle placed upright, and so on with sprays of 
orange flowers, &c., &c, all arranged to nearly the same average 
height, (though higher in the centre,) with a sufficient thickness of 
their own leaves to form a mass of foliage relieving each other 
by their different shades of greens and browns, with little of the 
black ground appearing till the flowers and buds at the top of 
each spray required such a relief to throw out their delicate out- 
lino-. The description here given is from sight, but the gown 
and train which belonged to this petticoat the Editor never saw, 
though she has heard it described by those who had seen it, and 
who said that it was also of black satin, that it was studded all 
over with natural flowers of the same wonderful embroidery, but 
all minute flowers, making a complete contrast with the petti- 
coat, although exactly suiting it, and producing altogether a most 
beautiful effect. A stomacher is still preserved which most pro- 
bably belonged to this court suit. It is of black velvet, divided 
into compartments by a very curious narrow lace made of white 
silk ; each compartment contains a sprig of jessamine embroidered 
on the black velvet, tied with a blue bow, also embroidered ; 
and it is worthy of remark that although the whole design is in 
perfect proportion, and each spray and ribbon exactly balanced 
by its companion, that there is not a leaf or flower which is a 
duplicate of the other, and in all Mrs. Delany's designs the same 
thorough mastership of the art of design is apparent ; for she had 
studied nature too long and too closely not to have impressed 
upon her mind the invariable law of nature, — that although every- 
thing harmonizes nothing is ever an exact duplicate of the other. 

A white tiffany three-cornered handkerchief, which is the 
most wonderful of all Mrs. Delany's works, whether considered 
for beauty of design, close imitation of nature, or delicacy of exe- 
cution. The tiffany is simply doubled and sewed down to form 
a broad border, on which appear groups of natural flowers exe- 
cuted with the very finest coloured silks in running stitch. The 
ground is not covered, but the flowers are all delineated and 
shaded by runnings, which can only be compared to a fine en- 

PART II. — VOL. III. 2 L 



506 APPENDIX. 

graving or etching in colours on a white ground. Some of the 
principal flowers are double anemones, and the corner is orna- 
mented with a most beautiful double poppy with curling leaves 
and bent stem, which exactly fills the required space. The flowers 
are connected together by a blue ribbon, the outline light and 
shade of which is a study for a painter. The ribbon is also 
executed in the same needlework etching. 

A quilt, the ground of white Indian cotton lined with linen, 
bordered with flowers from nature of a large size, and bows 
of ribbon, with groups at the corners and centre of each side ; 
executed in the same manner as the tiffany handkerchief above 
mentioned, only that the silk is thicker with which the flowers 
are traced out, as was required by their increased dimensions 
and the coarser texture of the material on which they are worked. 
The ground of the quilt (the centre) is filled up by a beautiful 
and intricate mosaic pattern of white knotting sewn down. 

Many more inventions of Mrs. Delany's in needlework might 
be mentioned, but space will not permit of further details, as the 
originality and beauty of the designs and execution of work on 
muslin and on net, (the peculiar flaxen thread net of that period, 
which was in large squares,) for aprons, for toilettes, for ruffles, 
and for sweet-bags, would alone occupy many pages if enumerated 
and properly described. 

Among the remaining collection of Mrs. Delany's own un- 
rivalled needlework, is a white silk apron, (also) intended for 
a hoop, given to her by her friend Mrs Hamilton, 1 and which 
was so exquisitely painted and so perfectly preserved that it is 
probable it never was worn, but kept as a work of art. The 
border is entirely composed of sprays of jessamine, each dif- 
ferent from the other, yet forming a complete whole, filled up 
and interspersed with insects, among which are moths and butter- 
flies, bees, dragon-flies, ladybirds, and even a small snail with 
its shell is introduced. The whole is painted in grays and the 



1 Dorothea Forth, wife of the Hon. and Rev. Francis Hamilton, 7th son 
of James, 6th Earl of Abercorn. 



APPENDIX. 507 

outline is so perfect, asweU as the perspective, and the softness 
and finish is so great, thai (in t hew days) at first sight it might 
be taken for an excellent photograph from the real objects repre- 
sented. 

In conclusion it may be truly said that the works of Mrs. Del any 
would form admirable models for schools of design, as a standard 
to show what may be attained, and what should be aspired after. 
They afford an instructive contrast to the bad taste of those per- 
formances, called " embroidery," in shops of the present day 
which are frequented by ladies to buy patterns, (superior to 
what they can design for themselves,) with the work begun for 
them, and to which numbers return, to get \i finished afterwards ; 
or to those numerous compositions annually seen in the exhibi- 
tions in London, called " Flower Painting," where preposterous 
flowers are finished minutely with lights and shades put in or out 
at random, (in defiance of nature,) and the outlines of which are 
painfully out of drawing. Mrs. Delany's maxim used to be that 
the ornamental work of gentlewomen ought to be superior to bought 
work in design and taste, and their plain work the model for their 
maids, and she exemplified by her own productions that such a 
maxim was practically followed by herself. 



508 APPENDIX. 

The following epitaph, being an antiquarian curiosity, and con- 
nected with Ham and the history of Mary Granville (Mrs. 
Delany), it is here inserted : — 

Inscription on the Monument of Kobert Port, of Ilam, Esq. in 
the Parish Church of Ham. 

KOBERT PORT, 

DEPARTED THIS LIFE AT ILAM, ON THE 20TH DAY OF 

MAY, IN THE YEAR OF OUR LORD, 

1640. 

Virtue in tJwse good times, that bred good men , 
No testimony craved of tongue or pen 
No marble columns, nor engraven brasse 
To tell the world that such a person was. 
For then each pious act to fair descent 
Stood for the worthy owner's monument. 
But in this change of manners, and of states, 
Good names (tho' writ in marble) have their fates ; 
Such is the barbarous and irreverent rage 
That arms the rabble of this impious age. 
Yet may this happy stone that bears a name, 
(Such as no bold survivor dares to claim,) 
To ages yet unborn, unblemished stand 
Safe from the stroke of an inhuman hand! 
Here, reader, here, a Port's sad relics lie 
To teach the careless world mortality, 
Who while he mortal was ?mrivall'd stood 
Tlie crown and glory of his ancient blood. 
Fit for his princes, and his countries trust, 
Pious to God, and to his neighbour just. 
A loyal husband to his latest end ; 
A gracious father, and a faithful friend. 
Beloved he lived, and died overcharged with years, 
Fuller of Honour, than of silver hairs f 
And to sum up his virtues, this was he 
That was what all we should, but cannot be. 



APPENDIX. 509 



Lady Llanover takes this opportunity to record her 
especial acknowledgments to all those persons who 
have been so good as to add to the interest of this 
work by contributing information, lending pictures 
for engraving, or letters to render the correspondence 
more complete. Among the former she has been in- 
debted to the Duke of Sutherland,* the Duke of Port- 
land, Lord Stafford, 1 Lady Anna Maria Dawson ; to 
her sister, (the Baroness de Bunsen,) Mr. Granville of 
\Vellsbourn, the Bev. Iltyd Nicholl, and Mr. Erskine 
Sandford.* Among the latter to the Hon. Mrs. Gre- 
ville Howard, Sir John Anson, Sir Thomas Winnington, 
Mr. Granville of AVellsbourn, Mrs. Stratton ;* to her 
aunt, Mrs. Bam,* Mr. and Lady Jane Bam, and Miss 
M. A. Bam, Mrs. Carter Smith (niece of the celebrated 
Mrs. Eliz. Carter), to Mrs. Shaw (great-niece of Mrs. 

1 Jerninghom. 



510 APPENDIX. 

Ann Viney,) and Mr. Kingdon.* To the Hon. Francis 
Clements of Delville, to Mrs. Maude and Mr. Mallet, 
(late of Delville,) she is under obligations for the as- 
sistance afforded in tracing the former history, and 
still existing remains of Mrs. Delany's designs and 
works at Delville. Mr. Twyford Joliffe, of Amer- 
down Park, the Kev. Hamilton Beamish, Mr. Bushe, 
and Mr. John Bushe, have, in the most obliging man- 
ner, replied to inquiries and given information with re- 
gard to the families and genealogy of Twyford, Hamil- 
ton, and Bushe. With regard to Cornwall she owes 
an especial acknowledgment to Sir Charles Lemon for 
his hospitality and kind assistance (during her visit at 
Carclew) in a personal inspection of Roscrow, and 
towards tracing the history of Mary Granville in Corn- 
wall. Also to the Rev. John Davis,* Rector of Kilk- 
hampton; the Rev. R. S. Hawker, Vicar of Moor- 
winstow ; and to the obliging Mr. and Mrs. Adams of 
Kilkhampton, who gave up their own rooms for her 
accommodation. To the Duke* and Duchess* of Bed- 
ford, during a visit at Endsleigh, she owes the sight of 
Sydenham, &c, &c, and through them for the local in- 
formation received from the Rev. G. A. Bray,* Yicar 
of Tavistock, and Mrs. Bray, about Lamerton and Colla- 
combe, 1 and the still existing traditions respecting Mary 
Fitz, of Fitzford, wife of Sir Richard Granville. To 
the Rev. Dr. Oliver,* the well-known antiquarian of 




1 Philippa Granvil, daughter of Sir Koger Granvil, "the Great House- 
keeper" m. Thos. Tremayn, of Colacomb. A very curious monument to 
their memory was seen by the Editor in Lamerton Church, with a long in- 
scription, of which the following lines were a part — 

" Thomas the sire matched QreinviVs blood 
Philip her name — a Gentle good." 



APPENDIX. 511 

Exeter, she is indebted for repeated Letters and in- 
formation to assist her researches, and to Dr.* and 
Mrs. Coleridge of Thorverton and their daughter 
Mrs. Martyn, for allowing her to see and attempt 
obtain a photograph of the original oil painting 
of Stowe, although unfortunately the photograph was 
not successful. She hopes that if the names of any 
other persons are omitted, that it will not be attributed 
io intentional neglect, but to the true cause of want of 
time for reference and recollection in the last hurried 
moments of completion for the press. 1 

The Editor had proceeded thus far when on re- 
perusing the names of those who had taken interest 
in the work and rendered assistance, she was reminded 
of the melancholy fact that no less than eleven have 
died during its progress ! Their names are marked 
with asterisks, to show that it is now to their memory 
alone that this tribute can be paid. 



The Editor had intended to introduce a few remarks 
in allusion to the deep feeling of reverence and attach- 
ment of Mrs. Delany to King George III., and Queen 
Charlotte, (as evinced to her last breath,) in connection 



1 Whilst these pa^es have been passing through the press, the Editor 
has received some interesting photographs of Delville, and remains of Mrs. 
Delany's grotto there, summer-house, limes, &c., from Mr. Hamilton, of 
Hamwood, Ireland. 



512 APPENDIX. 

with the loyalty of her grandfather Sir Bevil Granville, 
and her loyal nncle Denis Granville, Dean of Durham, 
(whose letters have recently been published by the Sur- 
tees Society), and who was one of the last true and 
sincere believers in the divine right of Kings, Mary Gran- 
ville having formed the last link in her family between 
the creed of her ancestors as exemplified in Sir Bevil and 
in Denis Granville, and the greater liberty of opinion 
which tempered her own mind, though combined with 
the same fervent and inextinguishable loyalty, but any 
further remarks on this subject are now as needless as 
impossible ! Between the intention above expressed, 
and its execution, a great national calamity has given 
another warning of the instability of human life, and 
has at the same time testified by the mourning of a 
whole nation, as one man, that whatever might have 
been the opinions of times past on ' the divine right 
of kings,' that at no period in the history of Great 
Britain did any sovereign become so entirely and 
universally the object of the love and sympathy, as 
well as the devotion of the Empire, as the Queen, 
whose present cause of grief is felt as the individual 
misfortune of each of her subjects ! 



Llanover, 20th Dec. 1861. 



INDEX. 



* * 

* 



Vols. 



2, and 3 of Part II. are indicated by the numerals iv. y, vi. Pseudonyms and 
names of ladies before their marriage are placed in parentheses. 



Abbott. 

Abbott, Archbishop, on Sir George 
Calvert's becoming a Roman Catho- 
lic, i. 245 note * 

Abdy, Sir Anthony Thomas, v. 319 
note. 

Abel, Charles Frederic, chamber musi- 
cian to Queen Charlotte, v. 479. 482. 

Abercorn, Earl of, i. 319 note. 335 note. 
SOS note. 

Aberdeen, William, Earl of, i. 513 note. 

Abram, Misses, vocalists, vi. 431. 

Achard, Mr. (" Frere Bonaventure") 
Secretary to Duke of Portland, i. 
644. 564. 565. 566. 574. 575. 610. 
611. ii. 19. 59. 60. 84. 183. 202. 
234. 297. iii. 241. 291. 309. 432. 
514. 620. iv. 150. 151. 160. 276. 

"Act" at Oxford University, i. 412. 
414. 

Acton, Mr. iii. 605. 

Adair, Dr. Archibald, Bishop of Kil- 
lala, i. 357. 

Adair, Piobert, Esq. and Lady Caro- 
line (Keppel), iv. 236. 

Adam, liobert, eminent architect, vi. 
277. 

Adderley, Mr. iii. 140. 149. 191. 208. 
225. His sympathy for Dr. Delany 
in his troubles, 155. His generosity 
to Mr. Mount, 244. His intended 
wife, 511. 

Addison, Joseph, i. 319 note 9 , iii. 537. 
iv. 23. 

PART II. — VOL. III. 



Albemarle. 
Adriano, opera of, i. 558. 
" Adventurer," The, Mrs. Delany's 

liking for, iii. 276. 
" Adventures of Joe Thompson," ii. 

614. 
" Agamemnon," Thomson's tragedy of, 

iii. 571. 
Agar, Charles, afterwards Lord Nor- 

manton, Archbishop of Dublin, ii. 

553 note. 
Agar, Mrs. ii. 407. 
Agnew, Mrs. See Astley, Mrs. Ann. 
Ague, popular remedies for, ii. 273, 

274. 
Ahenlack, Mrs., i. 531. 
Ailesbury, Charles, 3rd Earl of, iii. 351 

note. 
Ailesbury, Thos. Bruce Brudenell, 1st 

Earl (2nd creation) i. 182 note. v. 

231 . vi. 338. His 2nd marriage, 473. 
Aislabie, Mrs. v. 244. 269. 299. 357. 
Albemarle, Anne (Lennox) Countess 

of, iii. 317. iv. 236. 
Albemarle, Anne (Miller) Countess of, 

iv. 435. 
Albemarle, Christopher Monk, 2nd 

Duke of, i. 169 note 2 . 497. 492. 

536 note. 
Albemarle, Elizabeth (Cavendish) 

Dnchess-dowager of, i. 497. 53Gnote. 

547. " Mad with pride," 498. 
Albemarle, George Monk, 1st Duke of, 

i. Ill note. 360. 497. 536 no/.. 

2 M 



514 



INDEX. 



Albemarle. 
Albemarle, George Keppel, Lord Bury, 

afterwards 3rd Earl of, ii. 388. iv. 

435 note. 459. 460. 
Albemarle, William Anne Keppel, 2nd 

Earl of, i. 137. iii. 317. iv. 155. 

236. 362. 
Albemarle, William Charles Keppel, 

4th Earl of, iv. 435 note. 
" Alcander." See Lansdowne, George, 

Lord. 
" Alcina," Handel's opera of, 534 note. 

578 note 4 . 
Aldborough, John, 3rd Earl of, vi. 431 

note 4 . 
Aldrich, Dr. of Christchurch, Oxford, 

i. 152 note. 
Alexander VI. Pope, Life of, iii. 584. 
" Alexander," opera of, ii. 227. 
" Alexander's Feast," performance of, 

ii. 38. 436. 
Alfred, Prince, son of Geo. III., death 

of, vi. 107. 
Allain, Mrs., i. 598. 
Allen, Arabella, i. 513 note. 
Allen, Elizabeth, afterwards wife of Sir 

John Proby, Lord Carysfort, iv. 458. 
Allen, Frances, afterwards wife of Sir 

W. Mayne, Lord Newhaven, her ad- 
venture at a masquerade, iii. 334. 

See Newhaven, Lady. 
Allen, Joshua, 2nd Viscount, i. 300 

note. iv. 450 note. 458 note. v. 

415 note. John, 3rd Viscount, iv. 

458 note. 
Allen, Lady, i. 317. 
Allen, Mr. (Pope's " humble Allen") 

iii. 608. 
Allen, Sir Edmund, Bart. i. 513 note. 
Allington, William, Lord, i. 153, note 2 . 

173 note 2 . 
Almacks, iv. 47. Original subscrip- 
tion, ibid. note. Female Club after 

same model, 261 — 263. 
Alstromer, Baron, Swedish botanist, v. 

365. 
Alsworth, Mrs., iii. 306. 
Altham, Baron, iv. 104. 
Al thorp, Geo. John Lord, son of John, 

1st Earl Spencer, v. 312. 351. 486. 

vi. 11 note. His eminent tutor, iv. 

467. 
Althorp, Lavinia (Bingham) Lady, vi. 

11. 
Alvenslaben, Baron, vi. 431. 



Andover. 
Alverstaden, Prince, Hanoverian Mi- 
nister, vi. 149. 
Amelia, Princess, daur. of George II., 

i. 168. 193. 429. 437. 440. 441. 443. 

501. 544. 568. 592. iii. 609. iv.455. 

vi. 265. Her death, vi. 402 note. Her 

burial, 411 note. 
Amelia, Princess, daur. of George III., 

vi. 150. 309. 437. 451. 
American Colonies, passages relating to 

the revolt of the, v. 103. 162. 186. 

231. 268. 328. 332. 543. 544. 
"American Prince." See Baltimore, 

Charles Calvert, 6th Lord. 
Amherst, Sir Jeffrey, afterwards Lord, 

iv. 260. 538. 539. v. 315. 384. 
Amherst, Lady, v. 459. 
Amiens, Mr., iii. 589. 
A'Morley, Sir Philip Parker, Bart. ii. 

260 note. 
Amphlett, Miss, seduction of, v. 498. 
Amyand, Miss, v. 262. 
Amyand, Mr. iv. 461. 
Amyand, Sir Geo. (afterwards Sir Geo. 

Cornwall) v. 44. 44 note. 287 note. 
Ancaster, Albinia, or Jane, Duchess of, 

i. 276. 
Ancaster, Mary (Panton) Duchess of, 

iv. 166. v. 430. 451. 452. 546. vi. 

148. 149. Her daughters and their 

marriages, v. 401 note. 
Ancaster, Peregrine Bertie, 2nd Duke 

of, i. 605. 
Ancaster, Peregrine Bertie, 3rd Duke 

of, iv. 111. 156. v. 340 note. 
Ancaster, Kobert Bertie, Marquis of 

Lindsey, afterwards 4th Duke of, v. 

340. 400. 451. 546 note. 
Ancram, Earl of, i. 542 note. 544. 
An cram, William John, E. of, v. 96. 
Andover, Mary (Finch) Lady, a skilful 

paper cutter, i. 618. ii. 285. 287. 

421. 528. iii. 364. 368. 468. 469. 

470. 475. 484. iv. 3. 10 46. 48. 

51. 59. 67. 75. 101. 114. 118. 147. 

350. v. 322. 353. 354. 360. 363. 376. 

407. 412. 413. 418. 419. 446. 469. 

vi. 212. 345. Kemarkable specimen 

of her skill, iii. 176. Letter from her 

to Mrs. Delany, iv. 231. Mrs. De- 

lany's legacy to her, vi. 485. 
Andover, William Lord, ii. 421 note. 

iii. 397. iv. 102. 252. 254. 350. 

v. 322 note. 






ANDREWS. 
Andrews, Miss, i. 577. 
Andrews, "Poor Miss," i. 260. Ber 
Btory as related by Mrs. Pendarves, 
-269. 
Andrews, Mrs. Mrs. Pendarves' opinion 

o\\ I 71. 
Anglesea, isle o\\ i. 380 note, 
Anglesey, James Earl ofj i. 157 m 

ii. 844. 
Anglesey Peerage, result of Arthur 
1 Moxmtnorris's claim for the, iv. 

Annandale, George Johnstone, 3rd 
Marquis o[\ ii. L48. 

Anne of Denmark, Queen of James T., 

i. 124 note. 
Anne of Austria, Madame de Motte- 

ville's Memoirs of, iii. 183. 
Anne, Daughter of George II. (Prin- 
cess Royal) afterwards Prim , 

Orange, i. 138. 193. 249. 422. 429 
. t36, -137. 441. 442. 448. 501. 

Her death, iii. 535. 
Anne, Queen, i. 7. 243. 256. 447 note. 

Dean Swift's reverence for her me- 
mory, G01. G03. 
Annesley, Lady Ann (Beresford) ii. 

581. 'iii. 42. 162. 166. 170. 501. 

579. 598. 
Anneslev, William, Esq. afterwards 

Lord Glerawley, ii. 323 vote. 344. 

576. 590. iii. 42. 501. 504. 596. 

599. 
Annesley, Maurice, Esq. i. 353 note. 
Annesley, Mrs. ii. 323. 
Annibali, Domenico, opera singer, i. 

7S note 3 . 
Anson, Elizabeth (Yorke) Lady, ii. 

524. iii. 187. 367. 
Anson, George Lord, celebrated naval 

commander, ii. 582. iii. 187 note. 
Anson family, vi. 151 note. 
Anson, Sir John, Editor's obligation to, 

vi. 151. 506. 
Anstis, John, M.P. and his son, i. 42 

note. 
Anspach, Margravine of. See Craven, 

Elizabeth Lady. 
Antwerp, view of, by Paul Brill, Ru- 
. and others, sold at Sir Luke 

Schaub'a Bale, iii. 496 note. 
Apple water, use and preparation of, 

i. 185, 186. 
Apsley, Sir Allen, i. 466 note. 



INDEX. 515 

ASHBUENHAM. 

Aram, Eugene ("one llarani a school- 
master"; vi. L90. 
Arbaces, opera of, i. I 16. 
Arbuthnot, Admiral, v. 5-1-1 note. 
Arbuthnot, Dr. i. 73, 319 note *, 
Archer, Henry, Esq., iv. 324. 
Archer, Lady Elisabeth, daughter of 

George Lord Halifax, iv. 324. v 

353. 
Ardsalla House and gardens, ii. 498, 

499. 
Arenberg, Duchess of, vi. 121. 
Argyle, John Campbell, 2nd Duke of, 

i. 473 note, 481. ii. 43. 45. iii. 468. 

478. 
Argyle, Elizabeth (Cunning) Duchess 

of, v. 4. 
Ariodante, opera of, i. 578 note 2 . 
Arkwright, Richard, Esq., 102 note. 
Arlington, Isabella, Countess of, i. 332 

noti . 
Armagh, Archbishops of. See Stone, Dr. 

George; Stuart, Hon. Wm. 
Armagh, Dean of, see Drelincourt, Dr. 
"Arminius," opera of, i. 579 note. 587 

and note. 
Armstead, Elizabeth Bridget, wife of 

Charles James Fox, vi. 138. 
Army abuses a century ago : a baby 

cornet, i. 47 note. A lady captain of 

dragoons, 48 note. 
Arne, Dr. musical composer, ii. 300. 

iii. 502. 
Arne, Mrs. iii. 502. 529. 
Arnold, Mrs. i. 454. 
Arnott, Mr. clerk of the House of 

Lords, vi. 399. 
Arran, Lord, i. 251. 353 note. 
" Artaxerxes," opera of, i. 101. 
Arundel of Wardour, Thomas, Lord, i. 

246. 
Asgill, Sir Charles, iv. 93. 124. 
As-ill, Lady, iv. 99. 
Ashbrook, Henry Viscount, iii. 177 

note. 
Ashbrook, Elizabeth (Tatton) Vis- 
countess, " left a widow," iii. 177. 
Ashburnham. See St. Asaph, George, 

Lord. 
Ashburnham, Elizabeth (Crawley) 

Countess of, v. 451. 
Ashburnham, John Lord, ill-used by 

the 1780 rioters, v. 533. 
Ashburnham, Lady Jemima, false ru- 

2 m 2 



516 



INDEX. 



Ashley. 
mour of intended marriage of, vi. 
121. 122. Marriage actually con- 
tracted by her, 121 note. 

Ashley, Anthony, Lord, i. 360. 

Aslmrst, Sir William Henry. Judge, 
K B., v. 438. vi. 53. 

Aske, Dr. Bishop of Clogher, i. 396 
note. 

" Aspasia," Mary Granville's pseudo- 
nym, i. 40 note 2 . See Granville, 
Mary. See also i. 516. 543 notes. 

"Astartus," opera of, i. 57. 

Astley, Anne (afterwards Mrs. Agnew) 

_r Mrs. Delany's waiting- woman, cha- 
racter of, vi. 134. Her comments on 
Miss Burney's statements, and tri- 
L "bute to Mrs. Delany's worth, 316 — 
320. On Mrs. Delany's death, 479, 
480. 481 note. Mrs. Delany's be- 
quest to her, 489. Letters from her 
to Miss Port, vi. 133. 148. To Miss 
Hamilton, 210. To Mr. Daniel 
Sandford, 475. 

Aston, Sir Thomas, i. 179. ii. 272. 

Aston Rectory, Yorkshire, v. 446. 

Asturias, Prince of, i. 231. 

" Atalanta," opera of, i. 578 note 4 . 

Athelstan, King, legendary combat 
witnessed by, i. 75. 

Athol, Jane (Cathcart) Duchess of, v. 
78. 

Athol, John, 4th Duke of, iv. 62. v. 
78. 

Atkyns, Mrs., iii. 607. 

Atterbury, Bishop, i. 579 note 4 . 
Mrs. Delany's remarks on his ser- 
mons, iii. 37. 

Auckland, William Eden, Baron, v. 
257. 

Audlev End, sketch of mansion at, vi. 
399, 400. 

Augusta of Saxe Gotha, Princess of 
Wales, i. 556. ii. 29. Fracas be- 
tween her ladies and those of the 
princesses (daughters of George II.) 
200, 201. 

Auo-usta, Princess, daur. of George III. 
vi. 73. 106. 148. 328. 336. 408. 

Augustus Frederic, Prince, afterwards 
Duke of Sussex, vi. 333. 336. 339. 

Auriol, Peter, Esq. iv. 341 note. 

Austen, "Rachel (Dash wood) Lady, 
ii. 604. 618. iii. 9. 19. 29. 80. 127. 

Austen, Sir Robert, ii. 604 note-. 



Ballard. 
Austria, Ferdinand, Archduke of, visit 

of, with his consort, Beatrix of Este, 

to Geo. III. vi. 386, 387. 
Automaton chess player, vi. 161, 
Auverquerque, Henry de Nassau, Lord 

of, i. 136. 
" Averno." See Roscrow. 
Aylesbury, Earls of. See Ailesbury. 
Aylesford, Heneage, 2nd Earl of, ii. 

421 note 2 , iii. 176. 397. 427. iv. 

350. 434. v. 322 note 3 . 
Aylesford, Heneage, 3rd Earl of, v. 

322 note 2 . 
Aylesford, Heneage, 4th Earl of, v. 

333. 440. vi. 39. 48. 57. 59. 61. 62. 

63, 75. 
Aylesford, Charlotte (Seymour) Dow- 
ager Countess of (wife of 3rd Earl) 

v. 315. 322. vi. 73. 
Aylesford, Louisa (Thynne) Countess 

of, (wife of 4th Earl) vi. 63. 73. 

110. 113. 254. See also Thynne, 

Lady Louisa. 
Aylworth, Mr. and Mrs. iii. 137. 291. 

" Babess." See Granville, Hon. Ann, 

(Lord Lansdowne's daughter). 
Bacon, Francis Lord, Mrs. Pendarves 

on, ii. 140. 
Baden Durlach, Prince of, iii. 255. 
Badge, Mrs. i. 134. 135. 144. 156. 162. 

172. 184. 185. 251. 333. 467. 527. 

529 note. 530. 531. 588. Letter 

from her to Mrs. Granville (Mrs. 

Delany's mother) i. 528, 529. 
Bagot, Louisa (St. John) Lady, v. 201. 
Bagot, Richard, afterwards Howard, 

and wife, iv. 10 note. 110. 254. 
Bagot, Sir Walter Wagstaff, iii. 447. 

iv. 254 note. 
Bagot, William, 1st Baron, iv. 10 note. 

254 note. v. 201 note. vi. 42. 293. 

Family affliction, iv. 519. 
Baker, Sir George, Court Physician, 

Master Edgcumb's verses to him, v. 

343. Sir George's rhymed reply, 

345. vi. 315. 326. 337. 344. 
Ball, in Dublin, elaborate arrangements 

for a, iii. 85, 86. 88, 89. 
Ball, Mr., of Drogheda, iii. 134. His 

courtesy to the townsfolk, ibid. 
.Ballard, George, author of "Memoirs 
Xof Learned Ladies," i. 262. 302. ii. 

590.595.598.608. iii. 92. 171. 178. 



[NDEX. 



517 



Ballabd. 

186. 201. Letters from him to Mrs, 
Dewes (Add Granville), iii. L96. 

Balloons, vi. L69. 171. 172. L85. 235. 

Baltimore, George Calvert, Lsl Lord, 
Secretary to sir R. Cecil, i. -II. 
Honours and rewards conferred on 
him by James 1. 245. Bis literary 
works, ibid. noU l , Archbishop Ab- 
bot on his turning papist, ibid, note -. 
Grant to him by Charles I. 245, 246. 
His death, 246. 

Baltimore, Cecil, John, Charles, and 
diet Leonard, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 
5th Lords, i. 246, 247. 

Baltimore, Charles Calvert, 6th Lord 
(" American Prince," " Bas," " Basil- 
isk," "Guyamore," " Herminius") 
i. L05. 106.110. L12. 129.130—134. 
1 >. L65. L79. L89. 190. L92. 11*7. 
216.218. 228. 229. 230, and note. 
231. 232, 233. 234. 23 . 239. 242. 
lote. 253 note. 433. ii. 29. 72. 
L95. 196. 198. 199. Issue of Lis 
courtship of Mary Granville, i. 240, 
241. Marriage subsequently con- 
bracted by him, and probable motives 
for same, 243. Origin and historical 
sketch of his family, 244 — 250. 
Estimate of his character by George 
II. and Horace Walpole, 247. Mrs. 
ny's reflections on same subject, 
iii. 5. 

Baltimore, Frederic Calvert, 7th Lord, 
career, literary works, death, and 
funeral of, i. 249. An inconstant 
lover, iii. 578. 

Bamber, Dr. ii. 247. 249. 253. 256. 

Bamfylde, Miss, interested compassion 
of, vi. 137. 

Bamfylde, Jane (Codrington) Lady, 
iv. 420. 

Bamfvlde, Sir Charles Warwick, iv. 
213 note. 420. 

Bamfylde, Sir Copleston Warwick, and 
Lady, i. 45 and note. 

Bamfylde, Sir Richard Warwick, iv. 
. 

Bampfylde, Misses, and Mrs., iii. 449. 

Banbury, Earl of, i. 2. 

Bangor, Bishop of. -See Cecil, Dr. 

Bangor, Viscount, iv. 21 note. 



B IRBYM0BE. 

Banks, Sir Joseph, iii. 256. Iv. ."-72. 

On the botanical Accuracy "f Mrs. 

1 n la n \ 's flower mosaics, vi. 95. 
v Bannister, John, Esq., h . 318. 
\Barhauld, Mrs. ii. 523 note. 
Barber, Mr. the painter, ii. 421. 429. 

462. IS7. in. 11(1.327.585. Lv.432. 
Barber, Alderman, Dean Swift's corre- 
spondent, i. 303. 404. 
Barber, Dr. i. 582. ii. 304. 335 note. 

342. 375. 413. 434. 438. 543. 556, 

5G0. 573. 592. 019. iii. 142. 1G7. 2 13. 

218. 281. 455. 
Barber, Lucius, iii. 385. 
Barber, Mrs. poetess, i. 302.319. 330. 

372. 383. 383 note. 400. 402. 407. 

432. 473. 501. 552. 554. 566. 604. 

614. ii. 306.- 316 note. Fraudulent 

act of which she was suspected, 

i. 320. Dr. Dclany's letter in her 

behalf, 321—323. 
Barber, Mrs. (Dr. Delanv's niece) ii. 

335. 339. 425. iii. 7. 127. 187. 356. 
Barber, Mrs. (the painter's wife) ii. 

410. 
Barbier, Mrs. opera singer, i. 102 and 

note. 125. 200. 325. 327. 334. 
Barberini (or Portland) vase, the, vi. 

192. 195. 196. 199. 200. 201. 205. 
Barclay, Sir William, tragi-comedy 

by, i. 331 note. 
Barker, Rhoda, Lady, i. G09. 
Barker, Sir William, i. 609 note 5 . 
Barnard, Dr. Dean of Rochester, after- 
wards Bishop of Raphoe and of Deny, 

ii. 252. 468. 546. 547. 552. 564. 621. 

62o. 628. 632. 
Barnard, Dr. Edward, Provost of Eton, 

death of, vi. 74. 
! Barnard, Mr. i. 314, 315. 
Barnes, Mrs. i. 227. 
" Baron " and " Baroness." See Carteret, 

John Lord and Francis Lady. 
Barrington, Admiral, the Hon. Samuel, 

v. 460. 468. 
Barrington, William Wildman, 2nd 

Viscount, ii. 51. 
Barrow, a man who has pushed his way, 

iii. 64. 66. 
Barry, James, Esq. iii. 500 note. 
Barry, the tragedian, ii. 424. iii. 539. 
Barry, Miss, a vocal charmer, iii. 194. 
Barrymore, Margaret, Lady, widow of 

James, 5th Earl of, iii. 572. 



518 



INDEX. 



Barton. 

Barton, Colonel, feat performed by, v. 

815 J 
11 Bas Bleu," Le. See More, Hannah. 
" Basilisk," the. See Baltimore, Charles, 

6 th Lord. 
Baskerville, John, the printer, iii. 589. 
" Bassanio." See Basset, Francis. 
Basset, the game at cards, i. 290 note. 
Basset, Francis, ("Bassanio") i. 23. 

24. 38. 39. 40. 50. 60. His end, 

61. 
Basset, Mrs. (" Fulvia ") niece and 

heiress to Mr. Pendarves, i. 23, note. 

38. 40, and note. 108 note 2 . 116. 124. 

126. 194. 213. 433. 466. 488. Death 

of her son, iii. 431. 
Basset, Sir Francis, electioneering 

ardour of, vi. 217, 218. 234. 
Basset family, members of the, iii. 431. 

450. iv. 300. v. 359. 
Bastard, Lady Bridget, ii. 297. 
Bateman, John, 2nd Viscount, ii. 450. 
Bateman, Lady, iii. 237. 
Bateman, Mr. ii. 239. 249. 273. 415. 

446. iii. 618. His quaint conceits 

in his house, library, chapel, &c. iii. 

618. iv. 176—178. 
Bath, John, 1st Earl of, i. 1. 119. 128. 

206, note. 422 note. 
Bath, Charles, 2nd Earl of, i. 136 

note. 
Bath, William Henry Granville, Earl 

of, i. 436. 
Bath, William Pulteney, Earl of, i. 

162. 
Bath, Frances Pulteney, afterwards 

Countess of, vi. 119. 
Bath, Thomas (3rd Earl of Weymouth) 

Marquis of, iii. 361. 395. See Wey- 
mouth, Thomas, 3rd Earl of. 
Bathurst, Allen, 1st Lord, i. 414. 417. 

4] 8 note. 419. 421. 493. 503. 599. 

ii. 35. 
Bathurst, Benjamin, and his six-and- 

thirty children, i. 465, 466 notes. 
Bathurst, Elizabeth, daughter of Peter, 

i. 378 note. 
Bathurst, Henry, Bishop of Norwich, 

i. 466 note. 
Bathurst, Henry (Lord Apsley) Earl, 

Lord Chancellor, v. 98 note. How 

treated by the 1780 rioters, 533. 
Bathurst, Peter, Esq., iii. 422 note. 

471 note. 



Beaulieu. 

Bathurst, Sir Benjamin, i. 463 note. 
Bathurst Tryphena (Scawen) Avife of 

2nd Earl, vi. 351. 
Bayley, Mr. iii. 43. 135. 162. 166. 

366. 502. 511. 542. iv. 25. 
Bayley, Rev. Charles, of Navestock, iv. 

153 note. 
Bayley, Sir Nicholas, Bart., ii. 323 

note. 
Bay lis, Sir Robert, Lord Mayor of 

London, i. 179. 
Baynton, Sir Edward, elegiac lines by, 

iv. 499. 
Bayntun-Eolt Baronetcy, iv. 499 note. 
Beard, the vocalist, ii. 271. 
Beattie, Dr. James, iv. 506. 516. 521. 

585. v. 165. 245. vi. 20. 
Beauchamp, Francis Viscount, iii. 620. 

iv. 497, 620. 
Beauchamp, Isabella (Ingram-Shep- 

herd) Lady, iv. 497 note. vi. 342, 

343. 
Beauclerc, Hon. Topham, iii. 398. 465. 

v. 265. His wife, Lady Di. Spencer, 

v. 265. 
Beauclerc, Lord Sidney, i. 545. 
Beauclerc, Lord Vere, i. 544. 
Beauclerc, Lord William, i. 391 note. 
Beaufort, Dr., i. 405. 
Beaufort, Henry Somerset, 3rd Duke 

of, i. 166, note. ii. 235 note. His 

death, 344. 
Beaufort, Charles Noel, 4th Duke of, ii. 

344 note. 596. 609. iii. 349 note. 

iv. 225 note. 230 note 1 . 397 note. 

His death, iii. 447. 
Beaufort, Henry, 5th Duke of, iii. 447. 

iv. 208. 230. 339.— v. 43. 80. 227. 

329. 330. 357. 388. 467. 493. vi. 

75. 369. 374. 386. 403. 418. 
Beaufort, Henry Charles (Lord Wor- 
cester) afterwards 6th Duke of, iv. 

251. 
Beaufort, Elizabeth (Berkeley) Du- 
chess of, ii. 344 note. 596. 609. vi. 

121. 232. 
Beaufort, Elizabeth (Boscawen) Du- 
chess of, iv. 232. 251. 263. v. 24. 43. 

90. 113. 127. 130. 132. 142. 160. 

172. 184. 243. 265. 324. 465. 493. 

vi. 52. 53. 65. 229. 259. 345. 353. 

369. 374. 386, 403. 418. 
Beaulieu, Hants, beauties of, vi. 397. 

398. 






LNDEX. 



510 



1'r.vri \w. 
Beaulieu, Edward Bussey Lord, and 
[sabella, Lady, iv.452. v. 249. 407. 

Beaumont, Madame, constructor of 
len maps, author of the " Ma- 
in des Enfans," iii. 580. 595. 
imont, Lord, i. 204. 

Beaumont and Fletcher's Plays, Mrs. 
Delany on, iii. 

Beauvoir, Rev. Dr. Osmond, married 
to Bliss Sharpe, vi. 118. Mrs. Cha- 
pone's remarks on the marriage, 1 L9, 
Clandestine marriage of his daugh- 
ter, 370. 

rot, Mr. i. 489 and i 

Beckford, William, Lord Mayor, iii. 
421. His statue and the speech in- 
scribed thereon, iv. 265 note. Anec- 
dote apropos o( his numerous pro- 
geny, 273. Date of his death, 273. 
291 

Beckford, William, Esq. (son of above) 
pictures of, at Fonthill, vi. 141. 

Beckingham, Mrs. vi. 251. 

Bedford, Anne (Egerton) Duchess of, 
i. 192. 427. 516. ii. 29. 336. 340. 

Bedford, Diana Duchess of, i. 546 and 
. Her jewels claimed by her 
grandmother, vi. 167. 

Bedford, Gertrude (Leveson Grower) 
Duchess of, ii. 64. 71. 147. iii. 465. 
572. iv. 250. 262.404. "Her Grace 
of Bloomsbury," 504. v. 4. 336. 

Bedford, Wriothesley, 2nd Duke of, ii. 
205 note. iii. 249 note. 

Bedford, Wriothesley, 3rd Duke of, i. 
192 note. 427. 

Bedford, John, 4th Duke of, i. 546. 
ii. 198. 332. iii. 421 
. 463. 465. 476. 497. iv. 120 
note. 249 note. His death, 323. 

*s Opera, i. 102 note. 158. 162. 
163. 165. 193. 229. 310. 311. 554. 
ii. 436. 

Belfield, Robert Koch fort, Lord, after- 
wards Karl of Belvedere, and his con- 
jugal distress, ii. 278. iii. 88. 
Belvidere, llochfort. 

Bell, Mr. i. 

Bell, Mrs. i. 177. 

Bellamont, Charles Lord, and Emily 
(Fitzgerald) Lady, v. 30. 89. 

Bellamont, Nanfant Cote Earl of, and 
wife, i. 136 note. 



r>i:vri\cK. 

" Belle A.ssemblee," the, iii. 176. 
Bellenden, Mrs. (" Peg") i. 169. 178. 
L86. 216. 257. 260. 453. 466. 472. 
ii. 221. 237. 245. 

Bel lew, Lady, i. 522. 

Bedew, Sir Edward, i. 522 note. 

Belvidere, Robert Rochfort (Cord Bell- 
tield) Earl v\\ trial between Mr. 
Rochfort and, iii. 553, 554. 
Bendon, Mrs. ii. 16, 17. 

Bennett, Lady Camilla, ii. 235. 

Benson, Dr. Martin, Bishop of Glou- 
cester, i. 357 note. ii. 39. 269. 270. 
276. 284. 337. 507. 536. Verses 
to his memory, iii. 158. Their au- 
thor, 171. 

Bent ham, Dr. Edward, Canon of Christ 
Church, v. 66. 72. 

Bentinck family, i. 187, 188. 

Bentinck, Lady Ann, "has played the 
fool," i. 620. 

Bentinck, Lady Anna Sophia, i. 188. 

Bentinck, Lady Barbara, iv. 23S note. 

Bentinck, Lady Elizabeth, Betty, Bess 
(" the little Queen ") afterwards wife 
of 3rd Lord Weymouth, i. 563. 565. 
574. 597. 617. ii. 33. 131 note. iii. 
73. 240. 254. 256. 258. 293. 320. 
471. 539. Letter from her to Mrs. 
Dewes (Ann Granville) ii. 131. See 
Weymouth, Elizabeth (Bentinck) 
Countess of. 

Bentinck, Lady Emilia Catherine, 
daughter of 1st Duke of Portland, iii. 
399 note. 

Bentinck, Lady Henrietta (or Harriet) 
afterwards Countess of Stamford, i. 
597 note. 617. ii. 85. iii. 240. 293. 
321. 471. 540. 552. iv. 6. 154. 282. 
See Stamford, Henrietta (Bentinck) 
Countess of. 

Bentinck, Lady Isabella. See Monck, 
Lady Isabella. 

Bentinck, Lady Margaret, ii. 51. 526. 

Bentinck, Lady Sophia, i. 187. 

Bentinck, Lord Charles William, birth 
and death of, iv. 286 note. 

Bentinck, Lord Edward, son of William, 
2nd Duke of Portland, ii. 526. iii. 
246. 619. 625. iv. 131. 152. 154. 
155. 170, 179. 181. 187. 209. 343, 
344. v. 323. 563. 565. His impru- 
dent marriage, vi. 124 note. 

Bentinck, Lord George, son of 1st Duke 



520 



INDEX. 



Bentinck. 
of Portland, ii. 136. 183. 184. 196. 
228. 

Bentinck, Lord William Henry Caven- 
dish, afterwards Governor-General of 
India, iv. 542. vi. 370. 

Benvenuto Cellini's silver cup, iv. 424. 

Beresford, Hon. George, iv. 165. 

Beresford,. Hon. John, iii. 587. 

Beresford, Lady Anne, iii. 501. 

Beresford, Miss Betty, vi. 250. 

Beresford, Mr. and Mrs. v. 434. 476. 

Berkeley, Colonel, iii. 566. 604. 

Berkeley, Dr. George, Dean of Deny, 
afterwards Bishop of Cloyne, i. 101 
note. 319 and note. 370. 432. 580. 
Occasion of his getting his Bishopric, 
ii. 295 note. His Essay on Tar 
Water, 303. 330 note. Book attri- 
buted to him, 523 note. His death, 
iii. 197. 

Berkeley, John Lord, i. 360. 

Berkeley of Stratton, John, 5th and 
last Lord, disposal of his property 
by, v. 25 note. 

Berkeley of Stratton, William Lord, i. 
609 note. 7. ii. 37. 

Berkeley, Lady Betty, daughter of 
Charles, 2nd Earl of Berkeley, See 
Germain, Lady Betty. 

Berkeley, Lady Betty, daughter of 
James, 3rd Earl of Berkeley, elope- 
ment of, i. 156, 157. 

Berkeley, Lady Mary, i. 544 note. 

Berkeley, Lord, adventure with a high- 
wayman, v. 60. 

Berkeley, Mrs. iii. 290. 502. 

Berkley, Mr. iii. 447. iv. 102. 

Berkley, Sir William, i. 360. 

Berkshire, Henry, 4th Earl of, i. 513 
note. iii. 397 note. 

Berkshire, Catherine (Grahame) Coun- 
tess of, i. 513. 

Bernacchi, opera singer, i. 184. 229. 

Bernard, Mr. i. 328. iii. 212. 333. 348. 
605. 

Bernard, Mrs. iii. 52. 68. 94. 184. 

Bernard, Mrs. Jun. iii. 600. 

Bernardi, Francesco. See Senesino. 

Bernini, Giovanni Lorenzo, painter, 
sculptor and architect, iv. 276. 

Bertie, Lady Louisa, i. 439. 

Bertie, Lord Robert, iii. 318 note. 

Bertie, Miss Dye, Mary Granville's 
schoolfellow, i. 3. 



Blessington. 






opera 



ivory 



with, 



Bertokli, or Bertolli, Signora, 

singer, i. 184 note. 185. 
Bessborough, Countess of, iii. 584. 
Bessborough, Lady. See Duncannon. 
Bessborough, Brabazon, 1st Earl of, 

Lord, iii. 177. 412, note. 
Betterton, the actor, i. 126. 
Be vera, Mr. the Quaker amateur 

turner, ii. 285. 
Be vera, Prince of, iii. 469. 
Be vis Mount, legend connected 

i. 74, 75. 

Bighton, Rev. Mr. enthusiastic bota- 
nist, iii. 460. 
Billino;ton, Mrs. celebrated vocalist, 

vi. 431. 
Bingham, Margaret (Smith) Lady, iv. 

418. v. 25. 
Bingham, Mr. and Mrs., Castlebar, i. 

352. 385. 
Bingham, Sir Charles, afterwards Lord 

Lucan, iv. 418. v. 25, note. 
Biugley, Lords, iv. 214 note. 
Bingley, Harriet Lady, iv. 214. 260. 
Binyon, Mr. Governor of Madras, ii. 169. 
Binyon, Mrs. ii. 169. 170. 172. 
Birch, Dr. Thomas, the biographer, i. 

485 note. 
Birch, Miss, ii. 13. 38. 40. 41. 53. 
Bisshopp, Sir Cecil, iv. 573. v. 398 note. 
Blackbume, Mrs. iv. 87. 
" Blacklands," Chelsea, ii. 288 note. iii. 

237. 
" Black Don," " Black Knight." See 

Westcomb, Sir Anthony. 
Blair, Mrs. " that was a Miss Johnson," 

vi. 376. 
Blakeney, General, vi. 322 note. 
Blamire, Mr. vi. 79. 82. 84. 86. 
Bland, Mrs. actress, ii. 615. 
Bland, Sir John, enormous losses at 

gaming by, iii. 336.3 
Bland ford, Maria Catherine de Yong, 

Ladv, married to Sir W. Wyndham, 

i. 478. ii. 29. 235. v. 459. 
Blandford, Lord, i. 158. 467. 
Blandy, Mary, murderess of her father, 

iii. 107. 227. 
Blaney, Lady Mary, iii. 28. 50. 220. 
Blenheim, v. 83—85. "Capability 

Brown's " doings, vi. 101. 
Blessington, Anne Boyle, Dowager 

Lady, ii. 553, 554. Her odd bequest 

to an Admiral, v. 42. 



[NDEX. 



52 1 



Bj B8B1NGT0X. 

Bleasington, Wm. Lord Mountjoy, 
Earl of, ii. 137. iv. 241. 

Blizzard, Miss Sally, i. L67. 

Bloodletting, prevalence of, in Mr-. 
Delany's days, ii. 318 note, 579. iii. 
218, 614, 615. iv. L24. 258. vi. 
315. 177. 478. 

Blount, Edward, Esq., iii. 440. 

Blow, John, Mus. 1>. musical composer, 
i. 228. 316. 

Blythe, Mr. iii. 17. 

" Boadioea," Richard Glover's tragedy 
o\\ iii. 261. 

Bolingbroke, Frederick, 2nd Viscount, 
iii. 398. His impromptu marriage, 
465. Its upshot, ibid, note 

Bolingbroke, Henry St. John Lord, i 
3 ••">. 364 note. 504. At Powell's 
puppet-show, i. 16. His will: Ins 
loners, iii. 116. Inland's remarks 
on his writings, 228. Anecdotes of 
his intemperate habits and way of 
life, vi. 168. 

Bolton Hall and its scenery, vi. 277. 

Bolton, C'liarles Pawlet Duke of, i. 
L54 note. His marriage to Lavinia 
Besswick, iii. 60 note. 
;i, Rev. Dr. iv. 56. 

Bolton, Dr. Robert, Dean of Carlisle, 
book by, ii. 619 note. 

Bolton, Dr. Theophilus, Bishop of Clon- 
fert, of Elphin, and Archbishop of 
Cashel, i. 001, G02. His death, ii. 
258 note. 

Bolton, Edward, of Brazeel, Esq., iii. 
2 7'. I note. 

Bond, Miss, i. 587. 

Bondeau, Claudius, Esq., vi. 163 note. 

Bononcini, Giovanni and Maria Anto- 
nio, musical composers, i. 57 note. 
79. 125 note. 463 note. 

Boone, Miss, v. 453. 

Boothby, Mr. Brooke, iv. 262. 347. 

tby, Sir Brooke, iv. 463 m 
i. Mrs. i. 124. 
Boscawen, Adml. Hon. Edwd. iv. 
_ 7 . 211. 209. His three times 

prisoner, v. 315. 

rd Hugh, M.P. iv. 
. 534. v. 16. His death, 
21. 

ren, < ten. the Hon. ' teo. i 
en, George Evelyn, afterwards 



BoscAwmr. 

3rd Viseount Falmouth, iv. 207, 
noU . 6 13. \ i. 65 noti . 

Boscawen, Wow. Nicholas (son of 1st 
Viscount Falmouth) iv, 399, note. 

Boscawen, Mr. vi. 75. 

Boscawen, William Augustus Spencer 
(grandson of 1st Viscount Falmouth) 
iv. 57 1 note. 

Boscawen, William Glanville, iv. 207, 
note. 223. 230. 234. 

Boscawen, Dorothy (sister of 1st Vis- 
count Falmouth) iv. 573 note. 

Boscawen, Elizabeth (afterwards 
Duchess of Beaufort) iv. 208 note. 
230. 232. 

Boscawen, Frances (afterwards Mrs. 
John Leveson-Gower) iv. 208 note. 
232. 510. Letter from her to Mrs. 
Delany, iv. 223. See Leveson- 
( lower, Hon. Mrs. 

Boscawen, Hon. Mrs. Gr. v. 12(5. 

Boscawen, Hon. Mrs. (Prances Evelyn) 
iv. 205. 207, note. 230. 369. 510. 

/ v. 21. 24. 41. (>r>. 80. 98. 100. 207. 
208. 225. 376. 405. 407. 409. 412. 
418. 422.423.456. 516. 525. 542. 
570. 572. 573. vi. 40. 44. 93. 135. 
157. 201. 203. 205. 206. 265. 266. 
269. 319. 332. 340. 341. 356. Her pa- 
rentage and descendants, iv. 207 note. 
Her rencontre with the "Poker" fa- 
mily, vi. 102, 103. One of her 
maxims, 271. Her house broken 
into by burglars, 353, 354. A second 
burglary, 360. Mrs. Delany's be- 
quest to her, 434. Letters from her to 
Mrs. Delany, iv. 207. 211. 219. 232. 



251, 
304. 
369. 
449. 
488. 
536. 
573, 



2. 259. 261. 263. 297. 302. 



332. 338. 343. 349. 355. 359. 

375. 387. 427. 433. 437. 441. 

451. 459. 461. 472. 476. 477. 

501. 509. 513. 523. 532. 534. 

)39. 543. 546. 558. 564. 569. 

>89. v. 5. 7. 12. 15. 30. 36. 
43. 51. 60. 82. 126. 129. 131. 135. 
L36. 137. 141.150. 158. 164.169. 
173. 177. 179. 184.187.227. 229. 
231. 232. 233. 237. 239. 240. 242. 
244. 252. 256. 261. 264. 266. 269. 
277. 285. 292. 296. 298. 301. 306. 
313. 322. 328. 332. 356. 358. 359. 

383. 387. 393. 395. 397, 398. 
135. -152. 458. 461. 463. 467. 486. 
492. 499. 534, 535. 541. 543. 567. 



522 



INDEX. 



BOSTONIAN. 

vi. 24. 29. 47. 51. 53. 55. 60. 64. 

77. 101. 111. 112. 116. 120. 121. 

136. 139. 217. 228. 230. 231. 233. 

237. 239. 257. 261. 273. 280. 281. 

284. 288. 295. 304. 320. 323. 325. 

344. 347. 351. 352. 354. 359. 368. 

373. 375. 378. 385. 394. 403. 417. 

418. 420. 426. 430. 457. 464. 
" Bostonian distemper," the, v. 13. 
Boston, Lord, ill-used by the 1780 

rioters, v. 533. 
Boston, Christiana (Methuen) Lady, 

v. 471. 473. 478. 
Boswell, James, biographer of Dr. 

Johnson, v. 470. vi. 296. 348. 
Bottetourt, Norborne Lord, ii. 344 

note. 
Boulby, Mr. and Lady Mary, vi. 338. 
Bourbon, Henriette de, v. 44. 
Bout-rimes, specimens of, i. 147. 
Bowdler, Dr. Thomas, physician and 

author, vi. 143. 229. 
Bowdler, Miss, authoress, vi. 341. 

439. 
Bowes, John, Baron, Lord Chancellor 

of Ireland, iii. 455. 554. 
Bowyer, the printer, i. 262. 
Boyd, John, Esq. afterwards Sir 

John, iv. 81 note. 228 note. v. 

111. 129. 
Boyd, Lady, iii. 363. 
Boyd, Mr., iii. 428. 516. iv. 81. 84. 

153. 228. 400. 
Boyd, Mr. George, iv. 153. 280. 
Boyd, Mrs. Catherine (Chapone) iv. 

81. 154. 228. v. 111. 
Boyle, Charlotte, afterwards Baroness 

de Eos, v. 174 note. 314. 479. 524. 

vi. 110. 
Boyle, Henry, Speaker of Irish House 

of Commons, afterwards Lord Shan- 
non, iii. 412. 
Boyle, Lady Dorothy (Lady Euston) 

ii. 51. 205 note. 
Boyle, Lady Lucy, iii. 468. iv. 10. 
Boyle, Lord, i. 161. 
Boyle. See Burlington, Cork. 
Bradshaw, Treasury Secretary, suicide 

of, v. 59 note. 63. 
Braganza, Duke of, iii. 464. 471. 
Bragg, Charles, Esq., and his wife 

Anne, i. 464 note. 
Bramston family, i. 252 note. 
Bramston, Edmund, Esq. i. 427 note 2 . 



Bristow. 



Bramston, Mr. M.P. vi. 401. 

Bramston, Mrs. iv. 424. vi. 401. 

Bramston, Molly, i. 100. 189. 466. 

Bramston, Sir John, i. 252 note. 

Brandon. See Hamilton, Duke of. 

Braybrooke, Katherine (Grenville) 
Baroness, v. 523. 

Braybrooke, Richard Aldworth Neville, 
2nd Baron, v. 523 note. 

Breadalbane, John Earl of, iii. 439. 

Brent, Mrs. Dean Swift's housekeeper, 
i. 601. 

Brentford, election riot at, iv. 195. 

Brerewood, Sir Robert, i. 248. 

Brerewood, Thomas, Esq. and Char- 
lotte his wife, i. 248. 

Brett, Dr. iii. 476. 

Brett, Mr. iv. 474. 

Breughel, "Velvet," picture acces- 
sories painted by, iii. 496 note. 

Brickhill, Bucks, the seat of the Dun- 
combes, i. 128. 147. 208. 

Bricknal, Mrs. legacy left by, iii. 295. 

Bridge, William Fenny, Esq., iii. 377. 

Bridges, Sir Brook, i. 609 note 4 . 

Bridgewater, Francis Egerton, Duke 
of, underground navigation of, v. 16. 

Bridgewater, Scroop, Duke of, i. 192. 
249. iii. 578. iv. 306. • 

Bridgewater, Dukes and Earls of, i. 
188. 

Bridgman, Mrs. i. 444. 

" Bridling," practice of, as discipline 
for girls, ii. 485. 

Bright, Thomas, Esq. iv. 339 note. 

Brill, Paul, picture partly painted by, 
iii. 496 note. 

Brinsden, Mr. ii. 282. 284. 295. 297. 

Brinsden, Mrs. (probably " Bet Castle- 
main") ii. 207.226.286.297. 

Bristoe, Robert, Esq. iv. 423 note. 

Bristol, John, 1st Earl of, i. 179. 219 
note. 

Bristol, George William, 2nd Earl of, 
Viceroy of Ireland, iv. 87. v. 118. 

Bristol, Augustus John, afterwards 3rd 
Earl of, iv. 563 note. 

Bristol, or Bristow, Elizabeth, after- 
wards Lady (Hobart) Buckingham- 
shire, i. 157 and note 5 . iii. 444 note. 

Bristow, Mr. loss of, by Lisbon earth- 
quake, iii. 379. 

Bristow, Mrs. souvenirs bequeathed 
by, v. 410. 



INDEX. 



523 



Bbistow. 

\v, Robert, Esq. iii. 11 1 note. 
Bristowe, Mr., M the grand connois- 
seur," ii. 429. 555. ."».".7. 568. 

ve, Rev. Mr, and Family, iii. 
616. 518. 
■ British Museum, founder of the, i. L25 
note. 
Brodrick, Lawrence, D.D. i. 466 note. 
Bromley, William, Esq. and .Mrs. iii. 

431. iy. 
Brooke, Francis, Earl, afterwards Earl 
of Warwick, and members of his 
family, i. 215 note. iv. L10 note. 
•'. Henry, author, ii. 336. 
. Mrs. authoress, iii. 604 note. 
Brooks, Robert, Esq. M.P. i. 250. 

3, Mrs. author of " Lady Julia 
Mandeville," iv. 23. 
M Brothers, The," Dr. Young's tragedy 
. iii. 220. 
erton, Mr. iii. G08. 
Brougham, Henry Lord, on Rousseau's 

neglect of dates, iv. 73. 
Brown, I.anncelot (" Capability 
Brown") garden and park, "im- 
provements" of: at Longleat, iii. 
611. At Luton, v. 34. At Blen- 
heim, vi. 101; General results of 
his caprices, ibid., note. 
Brown, Dr. Jemmet, Bishop of Dro- 
more, and afterwards of Cork and 
Ross, ii. 380. iii. 91. 212. 499. 
Brown, Dr. John, author, iii. 107. 
Brown, Miss, daughter of above, iii. 

212. 221. 
Brown, Sir Robert, merchant of Venice, 

iii. 583. 
Brownlow, Mr. amateur organist, iii. 

96. : 
Brownlow, William, Esq. and daugh- 

. iii. 467. 
Brownlow, Sir John. See Tyrconnel, 

ant. 
Broxholm, Dr. suicide of, ii. 49G note. 
Brace, Caroline, Lady, ii. 147. 
Bruce, Charles Lord, i. 182 note. ii. 

1 
Bruce, Miss, afterwards Lady Carnar- 
von, i. 182. 
Brucer, Anthony, Esq., bequest to 
poor clergymen by, iii. 373. 

nell, Hon. James, afterwards 
Baron, iv. 9 note. vi. 338. 
Brudenell, Hon. Mrs. Anne (] 



BUNBUBY. 

afterwards Baroness, iv. 9. vi. 

327. 380. Her death, 834. 337 

note. 
Brudenell, Hon. Robert, iv. 578. v. 

398 note. vi. 112 note. 
Brudenell, Hon. Mrs. Anne (Bisshop) 

iv. 573. \. 398. 
Brudenell, Miss, vi. 1 12. 
Bryant, .hud), the mythologist, vi. 

101. L10. L67. L68. 205. 215. 319. 

453. 
Brydges, Lady, i. 609. 
Brydone, Patrick, the traveller, v. 191. 
Buccleuch, Francis, 2nd Duke of, iv. 

63 note. 
Buccleuch, Elizabeth (Montagu) 

Duchess of, iv. 107. 
Buck, Lady, i. (505. 
Buckingham, Edmund Sheffield, Duke 

of, i. 1 57 note 2 . 
Buckingham, John Sheffield, Duke of, 

i. 41 note. 157 note 2 . 
Buckingham, Catherine Duchess of, 

i. 149. 157 and note 2 . 
Buckingham, Geo. (Jrcnvillc, Earl 

Temple, and Marquis of, iv. 397 

note. v. 78 note. 
Buckinghamshire, Sir John Hobart, 

1st Earl of, iii. 328 note. 444 note. 
Buckinghamshire, George, 3rd Earl of, 

iv. 333. 
Buckland rectory, Gloucestershire, 

notice of, i. 13. 453. 
Buckley, Edward Pery, Esq. and 

Lady Georgina, v. 351 note. 
Bulkeley, Elizabeth Harriet (Warren) 

Viscountess, iv. 540 note. 
Bulkeley, Lady Frances (Mordaunt) 

iv. 65. 174. v. 122. 195. 312. 439. 

486. 
Bulkeley, Bev. Samuel, iv. 65 note. 

L89. v. 122. 486. 
Bulkeley, Thomas James Viscount, 

iv. 54(>. 
Buller, Mrs. iii. 56. 
Bplstrode, Duchess of Portland's seat, 

L.74. 
Bunau, Henry Count, iii. 553. 
Bunbury, 1 lenrv William, amateur cari- 
caturist, vi. 460, 461. 
Bunbury, Lady, i. 332 n< 
Bunbury, Sir Thomas Charles, and 

Lady Sarah (Lenox) iii. 538 note. 

iv. 464 note. 



524 



INDEX. 



BUNSEN. 

Bunsen, Baroness de, i. 89 note. 

Burgh, Dr. iii. 157. 615. 

Burgh, Mrs. iii. 67. 

Burgoyne, General, dramatic author 

and military commander, v. 4 note 2 . 

Defeated, 332. 334. 
Burgoyne, Sir Francis, death of, vi. 2. 
Burgoyne, Sir Roger, stricken with 

palsy, iv. 491. Died, vi. 2 note. 
Burgoyne, Lady Frances (Montagu) 

wife of Sir Roger, vi. 296. 394. 
Burke, Edmund, v. 12. 145. 248. 250. 

538. 
Burke, Mr. iii. 86. 104. 106. 107. 110. 

189. 
Burke, Mr. of Serjeant's Inn and of 

Jamaica, iii. 180. 
Burlington, Richard Boyle, Earl of, i. 

187. 347. 
Burlington, Cavendish Earl of. See\ 

Cavendish, Lord George. 
Burnet, Bishop, vi. 156. 
Burney, Dr. i. 72. 172 note. 228 note. 

vi. 236. 352. 355. 360. 362. 375. 
Burney, Fanny [See also D'Arbiay], 

iv. 407. vi. 200. 202. 241. 278. 

315. 316. 322. 325. 341. 353. 355. 

367. 409. 433. 438. 451. Dresser to 

Queen Charlotte, vi. 359. 365, 366. 

Mrs. Delany's bequest to her, 490. 

Letters from her to Miss Hamilton, 

vi. 132. 216. 221. 241. To Mrs. 

Delany, vi. 204. 
Burnwell, Mr. i. 392. 
Burrell, Mrs. verses to Lord Mansfield 

by, vi. 298. 
Burrows family, vi. 78. 118. 118 note. 

238. 367. 404. 
Burrows, Rev. Dr. v. 513. 515. His 

death, vi. 359. 
Burton, Samuel, Esq. i. 341 note. 
Bury, Capt. rich prizes taken by, ii. 

290 note. 291. 
Bury. See Albemarle, Geo. Keppel, 

3rd Earl of. 
Bury, Monsieur, i. 161. 164. 
Buscoe, Dr. Bishop of Limerick, ii. 267. 
Bushe, Letitia, Mary Granville's friend, 

i. 316 note. 336. 340. 370. 374. 393. 

400. 403. 450. 473. 476. 490. ii. 

333. 334. 337. 339. 347. 410. 413. 

415. 418. 422. 424. 425. 435. 463. 

464. 475. 505. 545. 547. 548. 551. 

557. 562. 566. 610. 611. 617. 618. 



C.ESARS, 

620. 626, 629. iii. 9. 13. 15. 16. 
22. 29. 68. 82. 91. 94. 145. 149. 
193. Her last illness, 468. Mrs. 
Delany's lament for her death, 469. 

Butcher, Molly, " wonderfully cross,' 
vi. 35. " Defends her cat,"' 41. 

Bute, John, 3rd Earl and first Marquis 
of, i. 462 note. ii. 520 note. iii. 
351. 445. iv. 158. 169. 173. 339. 
344. 361. 542. v. 33. 267. 317. 402. 
412. 532. vi. 203. His last years, 
v. 441 note. His magnificent bo- 
tanical publication, 442 note. 

Bute, Mary (Wortley-Montagu) Coun- 
tess of, ii. 520. iii. 321. 350. 426. 
445. 486. iv. 158. 361. 542. v. 
33. 245. 266. 317. 334. 335. 341. 
355. 405. 407. 446. 448. 525. 532. 
542. 546. 581. vi. 65. 203. 269. 
319. 320. 340. 341. 344. 345. 356. 
359. 384. 404. 418. 437. Mrs. De- 
lany's legacy to her, 484. Her let- 
ter of condolence and advice to Miss 
Port, 496. Letters from her to Mrs. 
Delany, v. 441. 456. 458. vi. 135. 
276. 330. 331. 397. See Wortley, 
Miss. 

Butler, John, Esq. iii.' 590 note. 

Butler, Lady Emily, iii. 589. 

Butler, Mr.'i. 79. 98. 346. 392 note. 

Butler, Mrs. i. 301. 314. 315. 329. 
343. 346. 384. 393. 486. 

Butler, Richard, Esq. iii. 173 note. 

Butler, Sir R. his son and his son's mar- 
riage, iii. 542. " An old hunks," 543. 

Buxton, Derbyshire, a " shocking 
place," iv. 75, 76. 

Byng, Admiral, iii. 431. His alleged 
cowardice, 433. Anecdote, 445. 

Byrom, Dr. i. 231. 

Byron, Admiral Hon. John, grand- 
father of the poet, v. 464. 

Byron, Lady, widow of William, 4th 
Lord, i. 609. 

Byron, William Lord (who killed Mr. 
Cha worth) iv. 46. 150. 352. 461. 

Cadogan, Charles Lord, killed before 

his time, v. 69. 70. 
Cadogan, Mary (Churchill) wife of 

Charles Gloan, Lord, vi. 232. 
Cadogan, Wm Lord, i. 224. 391 note. 
Caesar Borgia, Gordon's life of, iii. 584. 
Caesars, Miss, i. 545. 



1. 



227 

256. 

note. 



the 



Caloot, 
[Moot, Mr.and his collection o( fossils, 

iii. 448. 623. 
Calmady, Anna Maria. See West- 

, Lady. 
Dalvert, Benedict Leonard, Edward 

Benry, and Cecil, brothers o( 6th 

Lord Baltimore, i. 248, 281. 
Qalvert, Sir George. See Baltimore, 

Lord. 
Oalvert, Hon. Jane, iii. 415 note. See 

Byde, Hon. Mrs. 
Calvert, Leonard, o( Danbywiske, 

244. 
Cambridge, Richard Owen, vi 

. 341. 
Oamelford, Thomas Pitt, Lord, i 

iv. 263 note. 306 note. 460 

>' Pitt, Thomas, of Boconnoc. 
''Camilla," opera of, i. 125. 

ell, Admiral, vi. ; , .-Jl > . 323. 
bell, Col. i. t40. 
Campbell, Dr. i. 293. 

•bell, Dr. author of " Lives of 

Admirals," ii. 410 noU . 
Campbell, Duncan, the dumb philoso- 

pher, iv. 48. 
Campbell, Miss, and Lord Bruce, ii. 

54. 55. 
Campbell, Mrs. Governor, Letter to 

Mrs. Boscawen from, vi. 238. 
CampMl, Lady Mary. See Coke, Lady 

Mary. 
CampMl, Mr. iii. 333. 
Campbell, Thomas, poet, i. 285 note. 
" Candid Disquisitions," iv. 13. 
Canning, Eliza, the impostor, tried for 

perjury, iii. 227. 
Cannon, Mrs. i. 611. 
Canterbury, Archbishop of. See Seeker, 

Dr. Thomas. 
Cantillion, Mr. murder of, i. 473. 474. 
Capel, Dr. iii. 45. 

Capel, Lady Elizabeth, and her hus- 
bands, i. 168 note. See Monson, 

Lady. 
Capel,* Ladv Mary, i. 136 and note. 

161. iv. 329. 8< ■ Forbes, Lady Mary. 
. William, 3rd Earl of Essex, iii. 
note. iv. 329. Set Essex. 
Capon, the scene-painter, ii. 209. 
Capon, or Chapone, probable origin of 

the name, i. 15 note. See Chapone. 
" Caractacus," Mason's tragedy of, v. 
287. 288. 



INDEX. 525 

C \K\ AKVON. 

Cardigan, Mary (Montagu) Countess 

o\\ i. 497. iii. 485 note. 
Cardigan, George, 3rd Earl of, iii. t85 

note — iv. 9 note. f>7."> note. 
Cardigan, Geo. 4th Earl of, iv. 92 note. 
Cardonnel, Adam de, Esq., iii. 602. 
Cardross, Henry David, Lord, i. 609 

note ;1 . 
Carew, Eight Hon. Reginald Tolc, vi. 

218. 
Carew, Sir William, i. 79. 418. 433. 

ii. 278. v.65. 
Carey, Mrs. ii. 24.82. 259. 
Carey. See Cary. 
Carhampton, Simon Luttrell, 1st Earl 

of, iv. 360 note. 383 note. 465 note. 
Caristini, Giovanni, opera-singer, i. 

446. L62. 578. ii. 67. His career, 

i. 462, 463 notes. To be broke on 

the wheel, 568. 
Carl, Anne, daughter of Hon. Peter 

Carl, i. 161 note. 
Carleton, Gen. Sir Guy, afterwards 

Lord Dorchester, v. 231 note. 
Carlisle taken by the rebels, ii. 399. 
Carlisle, Caroline (Granville) Countess 

of, iv. 358. 
Carlisle, Isabella (Byron) Dowager 

Countess of, iv. 46. vi. 230. Her 

2nd husband, iv. 150, note. 352 note. 

72. 



Carlisle, Henry, 4th Earl of, ii. 

iv. 46 note. 260 note. 461 note. 
Carlisle, Frederic, 5th Earl of, iv. 150 

note. 358 note. vi. 230, 231. His 

dramatic writings, ibid, notes. 
Carlisle House, Soho, iv. 374 note. 
" Carlo." See Newman, Mr. 
Carlow, Caroline (Stuart) Lady, vi. 7. 

77. 
Carlow, John, 2nd Viscount, afterwards 

Earl of Portarlington, vi. 7. 
Carmarthen, Francis Godolphin, Mar- 
quis of (afterwards 5th Duke of 

Leeds) iv. 405 note. 507 note. v. 

333. 
Carmichael, Dr. William, Bishop of 

Clonfert and Kilmacduagh, ii. 466. 

479. iii. 175. 183. 191. 
Carnarvon, Catherine (Talmash) Lady, 

i. 6C9. 
Carnarvon, Henry Earl of, iv. 344 

note. 
Carnarvon, Henry Marquis of, i. 182 

and note. 247. 






526 

Carnarvon. 
Carnarvon, James Marquis of. See 

Chandos, Jas. Brydges, 1st Marquis. 
Carnarvon, John Marquis of, i. 609 

note 3 . 
Carolan, the Irish harper, 580 note. 
Caroline, Princess, daughter of Geo. II. 

i. 193. 218. 437. 440. 441. 501. iii. 

474. 
Caroline, Queen of George II. birthday 

fete of, i. 191. 261. Her bounty to 

Mrs. Elstob, i. 262 and note. 263, 

264. See George II. 
Carpenter, George, 2nd Lord, ii. 450 

note. 
Carpenter, Lady Caroline, iv. 493. 
Carpenter, Hon. Alicia, afterwards 

Lady Egremont, and subsequently 

Countess Bruhl, ii. 450 and note. 
Carr, Captain, and the Dublin Amazon, 

ii. 562, 563. 
Carte's Life of Ormond, ii. 619. 626. 

629. 633. His History of England, 

iii. 59. 
Carter, Betty, i. 265. 499. 
Carter, Mrs. Elizabeth, translator of 

Epictetus, i. 70. 79. 99. 101. 580. ii. 

273. iii. 266. 486. 579. iv. 236. 

v. 437. 511. 517. vi. 119. 194. 200, 

200. 205. 245. 319. 335. 341. Her 

birth and death, iii. 486 note. 
Carteret, Edward, Esq. Joint Post- 
master-General, i. 447 note. 
Carteret, Grace Viscountess. See Gran- 
ville, Grace Countess. 
Carteret, George, 1st Baron, afterwards 

Earl Granville, i. 359, 360. 436. 447 

note. 
Carteret, John Lord, afterwards Earl 

Granville (" the Baron ") i. 58. 60. 

99 note. 202. 213.237. 252 note. 296. 

302. 411. 412. 413 note. 416. 417. 

424. 427 notes. 493. 503. 582. 583 

note. 584. 585. 599. 600. 601. ii. 

29. 36. 196. 199. 208 note. 215. 235. 

242. 244. 267. 268. 284. 287. 289. 

294. 296. 298. 301. 367. 375. See 

Granville, John Carteret Earl of. 
Carteret, Frances (Worsley) Lady 

(" the Baroness ") i. 58. 99. and note. 

124. 125. 139. 152. 175. 178. 189. 

191. 192. 193. 195. 203. 207. 210. 

218. 273. 290. 296. 298. 342 note. 

344. 364. 369. 373. 411. 412. 416. 

417. 424. 427 note 2 . 431. 446. 457. 



INDEX. 

Cashel. 
466. 468. 493. 536. 582. 584. 589 
601. ii. 29. 36. 40. 72. 148. 157. 
208. 218. 226. 294. 298. Her death 
and place of sepulture, 226 note. 

Carteret, Frances (John Lord Carteret's 
youngest daughter) afterwards Mar- 
chioness of Tweeddale, i. 328 note. 
434. 491. 554. 608. ii. 235. 298. 450. 
See Tweeddale, Frances Marchioness 
of. 

Carteret, Georgiana Caroline (John 
Lord Carteret's 4th daughter) after- 
wards wife of Hon. John Spencer, 
and subsequently Countess C'owper, 
i. 427.429.430. iii. 334 note. iv. 2. 
See Spencer, Lady Georgiana (Car- 
teret) ; Cowper, Georgiana Countess. 

Carteret, Grace (John Lord Carteret's 
eldest daughter) afterwards Lady 
Dysart, i. 193. 203. 210. 213. See 
Dysart, Grace, Lady. 

Carteret, Louisa (John Lord Carteret's 
2nd daughter), afterwards Lady Wey- 
mouth, i. 297 note. 298, 299. 315. 
344. 411—413. See Weymouth, 
Louisa Lady. 

Carteret, Hon. George, death of, i. 60. 

Carteret, Sir George, i. 360. 

Carteret, Sophia (Ferrnor) John Lord 
Carteret's 2nd wife, ii. 284 note. 287. 
iii. 339. 

Carteret, Lady Sophia, afterwards Lady 
Shelburne (daughter of John Lord 
Carteret by his 2nd wife) iii. 339, 
note. 348. 349. 473. See Shelburne, 
Sophia Lady. 

Carteret, Misses, i. 189. 191. 466. 617. 
ii. 26. 29. 72. 148. 

Carteret, Thynne, v. 420. 

Cartwright, William, Esq. i. 274 
note 2 . 

Cary, the famous mimic, v. 478. 

Cary, Hon. George, iii. 486 note. iv. 
539 note. 

Cary. See Carey, Falkland. 

Cary, Lady Jane, iii. 579. 

Cary, Mrs. iii. 486. 

Cary, William, Esq. iv. 346 note. 

Cary. See Carey. 

Carysfort, Elizabeth (Allen) Lady, 
iii. 334. iv. 458 note. 

Carysfort, Earls of, ii. 587 note. iv. 458 
note. 

Cashel, Archbishops of. See Bolton, Dr. 



9. f 

,7. 



[NDEX, 



527 



•• Oasha." 

Theophilus ; ( 'ox, 1 h\ M ichael ; Price, 

Dr. Arthur. Whitcomb, Dr. John, 
sia," i. L67. 1T'_' and note. 
Castle Durrow, William Flower, Lord, 

ii. -107 note -. 

main. Lord, i. 516. 
Oastlenian, Bet, ii. 157. 207. 284 note. 
Castle Martyr, Henry Boyle, Baron, iii. 

412. 
Dutle Wanl, Lord Bangor's seat, iv. 

21. 

ill, Lady, iii. 248. 
Catch Club's performances, ii. 300. iii. 

267. 
Catesby, Lady. >'•• "Letters." 
Cathca'rt, Cliarlcs, 9th Lord, iii. 553 

note. v. 78 note. 103. 252. 
Cathcart, Schaw, killed at Fontenov, ii. 

356. 
(.'at heart, William Schaw, 10th Baron 

and 1st Karl, v. 252 note. 
Catherlough, Lord, iv. 579. 
11 Catholic doctrine of the Trinity," by 

Rev. W. Jones (of Nayland) iii. 

p, John, Esq. i. 279. 
Caulfield, Dr., death of, v. 501. 
Caulfield, Miss, iv. 167. 
Cavan, Ford, 5th Earl, and Elizabeth 

(Wall) Countess of, iii. 113. 
Cavendish, Henry, Esq. ii. 551 note. 

553. 557. 596. " 
Cavendish, Lady Dorothy, afterwards 

wife of 3rd Duke of Portland, iv. 88. 

99. See Portland, Dorothy Duchess 

of. 
Cavendish, Lord George Augustus, iii. 

4-12. 
Cavendish, Lord George Augustus 

Henry, afterwards Earl of Burling- 
ton, v. 4.")."). 
Cavendish, Lord Henry, iii. 485 note. 
Cavendish, Lord James, and his son 

William, iv. 254 note. 
I idish, Lord John, v. 565. 

Cavendish, Lord Richard, death of, vi. 

54. 
Cavendish, Mr. iii. 30. 305. 
Cavendish, Mrs. i. 153. iii. 266. 362. 

408. iv. 254. Her death, v. 455. 
Cecil, Dr. Charles, Bishop of Bangor, i. 

oft ; . 591. iii. 583. 
Cecil, Mrs. wife of the bishop, i. 590. 

591. 



I Chapone. 

Cecil, Lady Anne, v. 397. 

1 Cecil, Lady Margaret, death of, iii. 

15 1. 
Cecil, Sir Robert, i. 21 1. 
•• Cecilia," Miss Burney's novel of, vi. 

L20. 

M Celestinet," the, a new musical in- 
strument, v. 90, 91. 

" Centaur imt fabulous," Dr. Young's, 

iii. 339. 
Centleger, Mr. iii. 133. 
Chadd, Mr. loss of jewels by, iii. 354. 

355. 
Chair, Blackett do, Esq., vi. 370 note. 
Chamberlayne, Dr., i. 149. 
Chambers, Miss, married to Lord Vere 

Beauclerc, i. 544 note 2 . 
Chambers, Miss, married to Richard 

( ireenville, i. 605 note. 
Chambers, Thomas, Esq. house of, 

burnt down, iii. 345. 
Chambers, Mrs. opera singer, i. 102. 

125. 200. 
Chambers, Mrs. bitten by her dog, iv. 

168. 
Chambers, Sir William, i, 124 note. 
Chambers, Thomas, Esq. of Han worth, 

541 note. 605 note. 
Chamneys, William, Esq., ii. 473. 
Chandler, Dr. Bishop of Durham, and 

his son and daughter, iv. 254 note. 
Chandos, James Brydges, 1st Marquis 

of Carnarvon, and Duke of, i. 182, 

note. 461 note. 504, 505. 518. 524. 

543 note. 555. G0d note 2 . Magni- 
ficent church built by him, v. 546, 

547. His^rnansion at Cannons, and 

his three wives, ibid., notes. 
Chandos, Henry, 2nd Duke of, ii. 341. 
Chandos, James Brydges, 3rd Duke of, 

v. 296. 437 note. 
Chandos, Anne Eliza (Elletson) wife 

of 3rd Duke of, v. 296 note. 297. 353. 

Death of her infant, 390. 
Chapone, Catherine (daughter of Mrs. 

Kirkham Chapone). See Boyd, Mrs. 
Chapone, Harry (son of Mrs. Kirkham 

Chapone) ii. 338. 423. 560. iii. 4. 

77. 95. 108. 
Chapone, Mrs. Hester (Mulso) au- 
thoress, iii. 26. iv. 578. v. 1SC55. 

93. 97. 102. 138. 175. 266. 307. 369. H- l 

436. 511. 516. 521. 535. vi. 19. 

40. 56. 61. 78. 89. 90. 126. 195. 



528 



INDEX. 



Chapone. 
238. 305. 319. 323. 332. 355. 359. 

370. 378. 404. 420. Letters from 
her : to Mrs. Delany, iv. 515. 549. 
v. 124. vi. 118. 367. To Mrs. 
Dickenson (Miss Hamilton) vi. 266. 

Chapone, John, (son of Mrs. Kirkham 
Chapone) iii. 22. 28. 354. 487. 488. 
624. His marriage with Hester 
Mulso, 626. 

Chapone, Rev. John (husband of Sarah 
Kirkham) i. 15 note. 264. 453 note. 
454. 489. 516 note. ii. 35 note. 39. 
338. 341. 447. iii. 626 note. iv. 
81 note. 228 note. 

Chapone — Capon — Chapon, Mrs. Sarah 
(born Kirkham) Mrs. Delany's early 
friend (" Sappho," " Sally," " De- 
borah") i. 15, 16. 121. 167. 170. 
174. 181. 196. 262. 263 and note. 
280. 285. 292. 305 note. 313. 314. 
337. 343. 353. 360. 366 note. 370. 

371. 372. 395. 403. 450. 459. 486. 
487 note. 584. 586. 615. ii. 31. 38, 
39. 108. 137. 167. 183. 317. 376. 
560. iii. 4. 22. 63. 162. 360. 453. 
624. 

Chapone, Sarah (" Sally," Mrs. De- 
lany's god-daughter) afterwards 
Mrs. Sandford, i. 58. ii. 555. iii. 
238. 274. 382. 403, 404. 453. 454. 
560. 624. iv. 21. 24. 26. 228. 355. 
" Outrageously virtuous," iii. 578. 
See Sandford, Mrs. 

Charitable corporation, collapse of the, 
i. 312. 331. 366. 

Charlemont, James, 4th Viscount and 
1st Earl, iii. 455. 511. 567. iv. 
418. 

Charlemont, Earls of, iv. 167 note. 

Charles I., i. 1. 124, note. 245. 246. 551. 

Charles II. i. 2. 34, 35 notes. 124 
note. 126. His statue in Stocks 
Market, ii. 84. Annoyed by Peter 
the Great's monkey, vi. 156. Eev. 
W. Gilpin's estimate of his charac- 
ter, 245, 246. 

Charles, Miss, dresser to the Princess 
of Orange, i. 448 note. 449. 

Charlestown, America, surrender of, v. 
543. 544 note. 547. 

Charleton, Mrs. iii. 607. 

Charleville, Lady, iv. 137. 

Charlotte, Queen of George III. i. 124 
note. 205. Letters from her : to Mrs. 



Chesterfield. 
Delany, vi. 76. 236. 280. 281. 329. 
To Lady Weymouth, vi. 344. 
Anecdote illustrative of her great af- 
fection for Mrs. Delany, 459, 460. 
See George III. 

Charlotte Augusta, Princess Royal 
(daughter of George III.) afterwards 
Queen of Wlirtemberg, vi. 58. 70. 
73. 106. 148. 328. 437. 

" Charlotte." See Hyde, Mrs. 

Charlton, Dr. iii. 579. 625. 

Chatham, William Pitt, 1st Earl of, 
iv. 265. 307. 340. 460 note. v. 52. 
269. 330. Sir William Pynsent's 
motive for his large bequest to him, 
iv. 340 note. His death-stroke in 
the Lords, v. 353, 354. His death, 
355. See Pitt, William. 

Chatham, Hester (Grenville) wife of 
1st Earl of, v. 270. 333. vi. 395. 

Chaworth, Mr. killed by William Lord 
Byron, iv. 46 note. 

Chedworth, John Howe, Lord, i. 585 
note. 

Chenevix, Dr. Richard, Bishop of Kil- 
laloe, afterwards of Waterford. ii. 
394. 402. 436. 

Chenevix, Mrs. ii. 396. 435. 

Cheney, Lady, death of, i. 374 and 
note. 

Chesham, Charles Baron, v. 455 note. 

Chester, Bishops of. See Majendie. 
Markham. Porteus. 

Chesterfield, Melusinda de Schulem- 
berg (natural daughter of George I.) 
Countess of, i. 446. 586. ii. 29. 267. 
374. 385. 391. 394. 400. 422. 426. 
427. 428. 429. 436. iv. 9. 529. 

Chesterfield, Philip Dormer Stanhope, 
4th Earl of, ii. 236. 259 note. 336. 
386. 394. 402. 415. iii. 363. 450. 
476. iv. 426. 464. 529. Curious 
wager won by him, i. 6, note. His 
" Phoenix " column, 295. As an 
orator, ii. 45. His papers in " The 
World," iii. 365. Reflections on his 
failings, 404, 405. Condition on 
which a forfeiture of £5,000 was to 
be enforced on his godson, iv. 530 
note. His celebrated "Letters to 
his Son," v. 20, 21. 27—29. 32. 

Chesterfield House, library and " can- 
nonical" attractions of, iv. 529 text 
and note. 



INDEX. 



529 



Crbtwods. 

Ghetwode, Harriel (Grey) Ia.lv, vi. 

269. 298, 299. 424. 
Ghetwode, Sir John, vi. 299. 310. 389. 

424. 
Child, Sir Francis, ii. 2, 3. 82. 
Child. Samuel, ii. 82. 
Children, correction of, ii. 401. Medical 

treatment oi, vi. 369. 
Chimenti, Signora, opera singer, i. 578. 

ia, broken, cemenl for, v. 85. 
Chirimoya, a Bpeciea of custard apple, 

v. 487. Description of the plant, 

488, ISO. 
Cholmondeley, George, 4th Lord, ii. 45. 

259. 
Cholmondeley, George James, 1st Mar- 
quis, v. L62. 175. 
Ghndleigh, Elizabeth. See Kingston, 

Duchess o\\ 
Chudleigh, Miss, iv. 95. 
Churchill, Colonel, afterwards General, 

i. 117. 175 note. 
Churchill, Lady Caroline Spencer, iv. 

249 note 
Churchill, Lady Mary, iii. 620. 
Churchill, William, Esq. of Henbury, 

iv. 110 note. 
Chute, Mrs. i. 535. 

Cibber, Colley, i. 175 note. His " Non- 
juror," iii. 98. 
Cibber, Miss, iii. 607. 
Cibber, Mr. iii. 607. 
Cibber, Mrs. ii. 271. iii. 606. Dr. 

Delany's exclamation on hearing her 

in the Messiah, iii. 408 note. 
Cibber, Theophilus, fate of, iii. 527. 
Cicero : " Tully of Moral Ends," i. 155. 
Clair, Lord, ii. 9. 
Clanbrassil, Grace (Foley) Countess of, 

iii. 455 note. 633. iv. 579. 591. v. 

18. 93. 115. 128. 134. 354. vi. 17. 

20. 21. 26. 28. 29. 34. 36. 74. 111. 

Mrs. Delanv's bequest to her, 489. 

Her words of condolence, 492, 493. 
Clanbrassil, James Earl of, iii. 455 

note. iv. 579 note. 583. 584. 591. v. 

67. 115. 124. 134. 
Clanbrassil, Dowager Lady, v. 93. 
Clancarty, Donaugh Earl of, i. 100 note. 
Clancy, Dr. Michael, memoirs of, ii. 591. 
Clanricarde, John Smith, 11th Earl of, 

ii. 72. 
Clare, Charles, 6th Viscount (" Clario") 

i. 93 — 96. 115. 151 note 4 . 
PART II. — VOL. IH. 



Clayton. 
Clare, Robert Nugent, Viscount, i. 604 

note. 
Clare. See O'Brien. 
Clarence, Duke of. Set William EJenry, 

Prince. 
Clarendon, Edward Hyde, the great 
Bar] of, i. 360. 451. ' His history of 

the rebellion, i. 426. Art collection 

formed by him, ii. 223. His lite by 

himself, iii. 505. 
Clarendon, Earls of, i. 256. 504.. 
Clarendon, Henry, 4th and last Earl of 

(of the Hyde family) ii. 223. iii. 262. 
Clarendon, Lady, v. 314. 
( 'larendon, Thomas Villicrs, 1st Earl of, 

v. 256 note. 
Clarendon, Thomas Villicrs (Lord 

Hyde) 2nd Earl of, v. 162. 330. 445. 
Clarendon Q aniens, recollections of, i. 

255. 256. 
M Clarissa Harlowe," Richardson's novel 

of, ii. 550. 561. 614. 620. 622. iii. 

252. 329. 
Clark, Mr. ii. 275. 

Clark, Mr. Chancery counsel, iii. 172. 
Clark, Mrs. i. 185. 
Clark, the botanical butcher, v. 487. 
Clarke, Richard, Esq. Mary Foley's 

husband, iv. 585. 
Claude Lorraine, iii. 495. 
Claverin, Mrs. ii. 32. 259. 277. 
Clavering, Miss, vi. 144. 
Clavering, Sir James, Bart. i. 610, note 7 . 
Claxton, Thomas, p]sq. iii. 308 note. 
Clayton family, vi. 380 note. 382 note. 
Clayton, Col. George, vi. 407. 
Clayton, Lady Louisa (Fermor) iii. 

348 note. vi. 221. 294. 303. 311. 

316. 319. 328. 
Clayton, Emelia, or Emily, daughter of 

Lady Louisa, vi. 309. 315. Letters 

from her to Miss Tort, vi. 380. 382. 

399. 402. 406. 409. 411. 415. 421. 

432. 442. 446. 455. 456. Her death, 

469. 
Clayton, Marianne (daughter of Lady 

Louisa) afterwards Mrs. Henry 

Edward Fox. vi. 390 note. 409. De- 
scription of her marriage, 411 — 413. 
Clayton, Dr. Robert, successively Bishop 

of Killala, Cork and Ross, and 

Clogher (" the Cardinal ") i. 213 note. 

227. 255. 273. 288. 314. 329. 342. 

348. 354. 355. 361. 362. 372. 373. 

2 x 



530 



INDEX. 



Clayton. 

384. 387. 403. ii. 380 note. 390, 

399. 413. 418. 422. 426. 427. 429. 

436. 489—493. 547. iii. 22. 40. 57. 

61. 67. 74. 112. 114. 282. His 

character, theological works, and 

lapse into heresy, i. 293. iii. 85. 

111. 551. His death and its accele- 
rating cause, 493. 
Clayton, Mrs. wife of Bishop Clayton 

("Cardinella") i. 185. 195. 200. 

213. 216. 217. 223. 227. 230. 253. 

284 note. 285. 295. 304. 305. 317. 

318. 327. 335. 340. 355. 361. 372. 

373. 383. 389. 392. 399. 403. 588. 

ii. 318. 321. 394. 413. 422. 446. 

453. 462. 489—493. 545. iii. 50. 

96. 114. 169. 212. 213. 493. 543. 

572. 593. 600. Her conduct to her 

sister, iii. 55. 59. 81. 
Clayton, Mrs. afterwards Lady Sundon, 

i. 320. Letter to her from Dr. 

Delany, 321—323. 
Clayton, Sir William, iii. 348 note. 
Clayton, William, Esq. husband of 

Lady Louisa, iii. 348 note. 
Cleeves, Mr. Mrs. Delany's visit to, iii. 

359. 
Clelia, romance of, i. 363. 
Clements, Dr. or Mr., and Mrs. Mont- 
gomery, ii. 559. iii. 8. 224. 501. 

507. Their social position and style 

of living, iii. 551. 
Clements, Mrs. an old friend of Mrs. 

Delany, i. 342. vi. 391. 
" Cleone," Kohert Dodsley's tragedy of, 

iii. 531. 533. 
Clerke, Mr. iii. 37. 59. 243. 
Clermont, Frances (Murray) Lady, iv. 

504. 
Clermont, William Henry Fortescue, 

Earl of, iv. 504 note. 
Cleveland, Anne Pulteney, Duchess of, 

i. 418. 
Cleveland, Henrietta, Duchess of, 

175 and note. 
Cleveland, Dukes of, i. 418 note. 
Clifford, De. See De Clifford. 
Clifford, Hugh, 4th and 5th Barons, iv. 

306. v. 329. vi. 137. 
Clifford, Lady Lovel, Baroness of, i. 

498. 
Clifford, Lady, v. 329. 
Clifford, Lord, Character of Dryden's 

Dedication to. iii. 37. 



Coke. 
Clifford, Mr. i. 593. 
Clifford, Mrs. i. 79. 98. 103. 400. 
Clifton, Mr. W. iii. 14, 15. 
Clifton, Sir Robert, ii. 62. 
Clinton, Hon. George, i. 161 and note. 
Clinton, Sir Henry, Commander of 

Forces in America, v. 398. 499. 543 

note. 544 note. 
Clive, Archdeacon, v. 201. 
Clive, Colonel Robert, afterwards 1st 

Lord, iii. 483. v. 75. 201. 
Clive, Lady E. v. 85. 
Clive, Margaret (Maskelyne) Lady, iv. 

385. vi. 351. 
Clive, the two Ladies, v. 201. 
Clive, Mrs. ii. 271. 
Clogber, Bishop of. See Aske, Dr ; 

Clayton, Dr. R ; Sterne, Dr. Jno. 
Clonfert and Kilmacduagh, Bishop of. 

See Bolton, Dr. T; Carmichael, Dr. W. 
Cloyne, Bishop of. See Berkeley, Dr. 

George. 
Club, the Female, iv. 261. 
Clutterbuck, Mrs. iv. 62. 124. 175. 
Coalition, Ministry (1783) members of 

the, vi. 128, 129 notes. 
Coach-travelling in 1728, i. 176. See 

Roads. 
Cob, Mrs. Mrs. Bricknal's legacy to, 

iii. 295. 
Cobbe, Dr. Charles, Archbishop of 

Dublin, ii. 465. His nephew, iii. 

568. 
Cobham, Sir Richard Temple, Viscount, 

i. 605 note. ii. 43. 541, 542. 
Cobham, Lady, i. 2. ii. 147. 259. 
Cocks, Lady, of Dumbleton, i. 586. ii. 

17. iii. 454. 
Cocks, Mrs. ii. 31. 37. 
Cocks, Rev. Sir Robert, i. 586 note s . 
Cockburn (or Colbourne) William, 

M.D. story of the courtship of, i. 

209, 210. 211. 
Codrington, Anne (Acton) Lady, ii. 

17. iii. 605. 
Codrington, Colonel John, iv. 420 note. 
Codrington, Sir William, iii. 605 note. 
Coen, Miss, and her windfalls, i. 605. 
Coke, Lady Mary, and her husband, ii. 

521. 523. 525. 529. Her reception 

at the Prussian and R ussian Courts, 

v. 23. -~"x~ 

Coke, Mr. Queen's Vice-Chamberlain, 

i. 440. 



IX 
OOKB. 

Coke, Mr. inheritor of rlolkhain, v. 1 17. 
Poke, Sir Thomas, Lord Leicester, v. 

L16 note. 117. 
Poke, sir Edward, "the great Lord," 

ii. 2. His ring and motto, vi. 202. 
Colbourne. Se< Cockburn. 
Cole, "sober M Mr. i. 80. 229. 

. Mr. of Dublin, iii. 504. 510. 
Cole, Mrs. (" Petite that was,') iii. 303. 

till. 
Cole, Captain, ii. 266. 431. 
Cole, Charles NYlson, Esq. and Mrs. 

Anne Hester, v. 227. 238. 239. 261. 

29a 319. 394. 395. 390. 399. 407. 

438. 479.535.536.564. vi. 74. 111. 

122. 142. L92. 217, 239. 305. 320. 

406. Her testimony to Mrs. Delany's 

worth, 493. 
Cole, Rev. William, antiquary, iv. 129. 

v. 13. 
Colladon, Lady, i. 557. 558. 559. 568. 

579. 595. ii. 47. 303. 
Collaton, Sir John, i. 360. 
Collet, Mr. iii. 007. 

Colleton, James, Esq. i. 586 note. 
Colleton, Lady Anne (See also Cowper, 

Lady Anne) ii. 390. iii. 353. 
Colley, Henry, Esq. husband of Lady 

Mary, ii. 197 note. 
^ollev, Lady Mary (born Hamilton) 

i. 498. 508. 558. 567. ii. 31. 32. 

197. 453. 
Colley, Miss, iii. 52. "A shrivelled 

crab," 118. 
Colley, Richard, name and arms of 

Wesley assumed by. i. 255 note. 
Wesley, Richard. 
Collier, M. W.i. 16. 
Collier, Mrs. iv. 104. 
Collingwood, Miss Catherine ("Collin," 

• Colly," " Collyflower ") afterwards 

Ladv Throckmorton, i. 266. 480. 510. 

511." 515 note. 550. 557. 559. 562. 

564. 567. 568. 573, 574. 580. 608. 

611. See Throckmorton, Lady. 
Collingwood, George, fate of, i. 481 note. 
Collingwood, Mrs. i. 573. 574. 576. 

580. 611. 614. ii. 95. 130. 
Collingwoods and Throckmortons, i. 

481 note. 
Collinson, Peter, the botanist, v. 299. 
Collis or Colles, Mr. (Dr. Delany's 

attorney) iii. 440. iv. 127. 147. 

149. 161. 



DBX. -"'.'51 

CoNW \ V. 

Colville, Sir Robert, i. 396 note. 
Colyear, Lieut-Gen. Walter Philip, i. 
288 note. iv. 10 note, 

Comet in 1737, i. 593. 

"Commode," a head-dress so called, i. 
238. Illustrative quotations, ibid. 

uot< . 

"Oompleal Country Dancing Master,*' 
a dance from the, iv. L69. 

Compton, lion. Charles, iii. 398 note. 
Compton, the Ladies, i. 531. 
Compton, Lady Elizabeth, afterwards 

Lady Burlington, v. 68. 
Compton, Miss Kitty, afterwards Lady 

Egmont, iii. 398. 406. 
"Comus" (Milton's) adapted to the 

stage, iii. 312 note. 
Congreve, William, i. 126. 175 note. 

His " Mourning Bride," iii. 538. 
Coningsby, Margaret Countess of, ii. 

102 note. 
Coningsby, Lady Frances, afterwards 

Lady Hanbnry Williams, ii. 102 

note. iv. 216. 571 note. 
Coningsby, Thomas Earl, i. 397 note. 

ii. 202"" note. v. 314 note. Bullet 

memento possessed by him, vi. 

202. 
"Conjectures on Original Composi- 
tions," b}' Dr. Young, iii. 558. 
Conolly, Lady Anne, in great distress, 

iii. 351. Aid given by her to Mrs. 

Fitzgerald, v. 270. 
Conolly, Lady Louisa (Lennox) iii. 

535.538. 
Conolly, Mr. i. 342. iii. 159. 166. 167. 

281. 
Conolly, Mrs. iii. 20. 100. Her death, 

158. Her exemplary style of living, 

158, 159. Her bequests, 166. 
Conolly, Rt. Hon. T. iii. 535 note. 
Conolly, Rt. Hon. W. 265. 351 note. 
Constantino the Great, life of, iii. 137 

and note. 
Conti, Giochino (" Gizziello ") opera 

singer, i. 578 note 2 . 
Conway, Francis Seymour, Lord, after- 
wards Lord Hertford, ii. 95 note. iv. 

405 note. 
Conway, Lady, Gertrude, afterwards 

Lady Grandison, iv. 405 note. 
Conway, Lady Elizabeth, v. 4<S5. 
Conway, Mr. and Mis. vi. 411. 415. 
Conway, Mrs. iii. 166. 594. 

2x2 



532 



INDEX. 



CONYERS. 

Conyers, Lady, dying, vi. 153. '165. 

Her death and antecedents, 165 note. 
Conyers, Sir John, ii. 450 note. 
Cook, Captain, the circumnavigator, iv. 

372 
Cook, Dr. Samuel, ii. 281. 
Cook, Lady Mary, iii. 463. 
Cooke, Rev. William, verses on George 

Marquis of Tweeddale by, iii. 463. 
Cooke, T, song composed by, i. 394. 
Cooke, Vice-Chamberlain, i. ltf. 
Cooley, Miss, iii. 333. 
Cooper, Samuel, the miniature painter, 

iii. 439. 
" Cooper's Hill," Denham's poem of, iv. 

283. 
Cooperson, Rev. Mr. iii. 374. 
Coote, Honourable Thomas, and his 

seat, Coote Hill, i. 284. 317. 334. 

335. 376, 377. 457. 
Coote, the banker, suicide of, v. 270. 
Cope, Robert, Esq. i. 404. 
Cope, Sir John, Bart. ii. 480. 
Copley, Col. Christopher, i. 377. 
Copper coffin, freak connected with a, 

i. 66. 
Corbet, Lady Augusta, i. 462 note. 
Corelli, musical composer, i. 313. 316, 

317. 
Cork, Richard Boyle, 1st Earl of, i. 

347. 
Cork and Orrery, Anne (Courtenay) 

Countess of, robbed, v. 237. Her 

cruel treatment, 235, 236. 365, 520. 

Her death, vi. 324 note. 
Cork and Orrery, Edmund, 7th Earl of, 

v. 235, 365, 520, notes, vi. 352. 

His second wife, ibid, note. 
Cork and Orrery, John, 5th Earl of, 

iii. 468 note. iv. 10 note. 427 

note. 
Cork and Ross, Bishops of. See Brown, 

Dr. Jemmett ; Clayton, Dr. Robert. 
Cornaro, writer on longevity, iii. 22. 
Cornbury, Lord, i. 256. 339. ii. 49. 

219. 220. 377. 442. iii. 226. 229. 
Cornbury Park, house, and art collec- 
tions, ii. 220. 223. 
" Cornelia, the Vestal," tragedy of, ii. 

586. 
Cornelys, Madame, " the Heidegger of 

her age," iv. 319. Her " fairy pa- 
lace," 374 note. 
Cornwall, devotion to the Stuarts of 



Courtenay. 
the people of, i. 34, 35 notes. Pri- j 
vileges conferred on the county by 
Charles I. 77 note. 

Cornwall, Mr. ii. 161. 

Cornwall, Sir George. See Amyand, Sir 
George. 

Cornwall, Sir Velters, report's spite 
against, iii. 271. 

Cornwallis, Elizabeth (Townshend) 
Dowager Counters, death of, vi. 321. 

Cornwallis, Hon. James, Bishop of 
Lichfield and Coventry, vi. 321 note. 

Cornwallis, Lady Mary, elopement of, 
with Capt. Singleton, vi. 321. 

Cornwallis, Mr. on Mrs. Delany' 
death, vi. 493. 

Correggio's (or Furini's) Sigismunda 
iii. 496 note. 497. Enthusiasm of 
virtuoso, 620, 621. 

Corrie, Mr. iii. 62. 

Costume: the "Commode," i. 238 
Authorities on the subject, 282 note 
Notices of fashions in female dress, 
450. Ladies' riding habits, 589 note 
Hoop petticoats, ii. 25. Ladies' Court 
dresses, 28. 71. 147, 148. iii. 51. 52 
Duchess of Queensberry's Court rol 
and occasional attire, 147. ii. 147 
205. Lady Tweeddale's wadding 
dress, 4S7. " The tubs of hoops," 
580. Hoops out of fashion, iii. 218. 
Mourning attire, 474, 475. 476. 
The "Dormouse," iii. 260. iv. 145 
Hats and ruffles, 608. Lord Villiers 
extravagant coat, iv. 490. Preposte- 
rous head-dresses, v. 68. 189. 199 
200.524. Tight lacing, 160. Royalty 
at home, vi. 148. 150. Wedding 
garments in 1786, 411, 412. 

Cotterell, Miss, i. 568. 

Cotton thread and flax thread, iv. 282 
and note. 

Cottrell, Sir Clement. See Dormer, Sir 
Clement Cottrell. 

Cottrells, the, ii. 225. 

" Count Fathom," iii. 216. 220. 223. 

" Count Gabalis, " iii. 218. 

Courayer, Dr. Peter Francis Le, iii. 
266. 348. iv. 393. 488. 581. Cause 
of his condemnation by the French 
hierarchy, iii. 266 note. 

Courtenay, Henry, 2nd Viscount, and 
his thirteen motherless daughters, 
vi. 137. 



IN 

OOUBTKNAT. 

Oourtenay, Lady Prances (Pinch) wife 

o( sir \V. afterwards Lord, iii. 427. 
Oonrtenay, Miss Prances, afterwards 

Lady Wrottesley, iv. 253.260. 
Courtenay, sir William, afterwards 

v aconnt, iii. 427 note. iv. 253, 

not . 260 note. 
Courtown, Mary (Powvs) Lady, v. 

471. 473. 478, 569, v£ 58. 66. 69. 

71. L49. 
Courtown, James, 2nd Karl oi\ vi. 

70. 
Courts, Thomas, Esq. and daughter, 

iv. 333 
Coventry, Earls of, i. 79. 79 note. 258 

Coventry, George William, 6th Earl of, 
iii. 250 ofc. 

Coventry, Lady Anne, widow of Tho- 
mas, 2nd Karl of, ii. 464. 527. 558. 
566. 613. 618. 623. iii. 2. 173. 186. 
L9& 215. 254. 255. 284. 286. 363. 
. 132. 434.469. vi. 376. 

Coventry, Lady Anne, afterwards wife 
of Hon. Edward Foley, v. 389. 

Coventrv, Maria (Gunning) Countess 
of, iii. 250. 300. 334. 421. Alleged 
cause of her early death, 584. 

Cowley, Abraham, the poet, v. 84. 

Cowley, Countess, v. 174 note. 

Cowper, Anne (Core) Countess of, v. 
42. 76. 111. vi. 356 note. 

Cowper, George Nassau, 3rd Earl of, 
v. 12. 5a 111. vi. 356. 

Cowper, William, 2nd Earl, i. 468 
nob . ii. 584. 585. 

Cowper, Georgina (Carteret-Spencer) 
Countess, ii. 584. iii. 12. 133. 305. 
412. 413. 418. 424. 427. 458. 595. 
601. iv. 2. 9. 14. 54. 55. 61. 81. .-4. 
85. 91. 93. 106. 116. 118. 120. 174. 
214. 357. v. 42. 53. 111. 202. 214. 
405. 416. 509. 512. 552. 556. Her 
death, 557. 559. Souvenirs be- 
queathed by her, 560. Her receipt 
for pap, iv. 357. Letters from her : 
To Mrs. Dewes (Anne Granville) 
iii. 601. To Miss Dewes, after- 
wards Mrs. Port, iv. 5. 15. 54. 57. 
61. 65. 91. 93. 94. 99. 109. 122. 
125. 137. 174. 186. 189. 218. 226. 
233. 242. 389. 484. v. 76. 312. 
349. 439. 484. 506. 529. To 
Bernard Granville, iv. 73. To 






DEX. 533 

Crkwk. 
Rev. John Dewes (afterwards Gran- 
ville) iv. L20. v. 1 fc5. 349. See 

Carteret, Cenrgiana; Spencer, Lady 
I taorgiana. 

Cowper, Henrietta Countess, i. 542. 

ii. l.lii. 
Cowper, Lady Anne, wife of -lames 
Colleton, Esq. i. 586. 587. See 
Colleton, Lady Anne. 
Cowper, Lady Sarah, i. 584. 586. 591. 
ii. 24. 32. 136. 207. 222. 318. 321. 
377. -MS. 460. 471. 559. 566. 576. 
635. iii. 2. 162. 353. 403. 427. 
430.469. Ber death, 529. Letters 
from her to Mrs. Dewes (Anne 
Granville) ii. 239. 353. 372. 386. 
Cowper, Mr. i. 58 
Cowper, Mrs. Dorothy (Townshend) 

wife of Dean, iv. 66. 94. 106. 
Cowper, Hon. Spencer, Dean of Dur- 
ham, ii. 585. iv. 94. 138. 
Cowper, William, the poet, ii. 19. v. 

533. 
Cows, distemper among, ii. 407 note. 
Cowslade, Mr. iii. 619,620. 627. 
Cox, Dr. Michael, Bishop of Ossory, 
afterwards Archhishop of Cashel, ii. 
416. iii. 239. 
Cox, Lady, ii. 19. iii. 369. 605. See 

Cocks, Lady. 
Crafts, or Crofts, the swindling adven- 
turer, v. 70. 72. 
Craggs, James, Esq. i. 604 note. 
Cramer, William, chamber musician to 

Queen Charlotte, v. 479. 482. 
Cranhourne, Jas. Cecil Lord, iv. 545. 

557. 
Craven, Elizabeth Lady, afterwards 
Margravine of Anspach, iv. 502. Her 
eccentricities, v. 571. 
Craven, William, Lord, i. 360. 
Crawford, John Lindsay, Earl of, i. 

438 and note. 609. 
Creighton, the sham Lord, v. 66. 71. 
Cremorne, Anne (Fermor - Dawson) 
afterwards Lady, iii. 348 note. See 
Dawson, Lady Anne. 
Cremorne Gardens, vi. 447 note. 
Cremorne, Lord. See Dartrey. 
Creset, Mr. iii. 111. 

Crewe, John, Esq. afterwards Baron, 
and Lady, iv. 346 note. 513 note, v, 
453. 
Crewe, Thomas Lord, i. 187. 



534 



INDEX. 



Crilly. 

Crilly, Miss, of Kingston Street Nun- 
nery, Mrs. Delany's friend, iii. 9. 38. 

Crisp, Miss Anne, virgin vows of, iii. 52. 

Orispe, Mrs. i. 535. 

Crofton, Mr. i. 354. 355. 361. 373. 

Croker, Mr. iii. 67. 

Cromwell, Oliver, i. 451. v. 385. 

Crosbie, Mrs. Frances (Lord Morning- 
ton's daughter) iii. 165, 168. 

Crossland, John, of Crossland, i. 244. 

Cuckow Club, the, iv. 386. 

Cullen, Lord, i. 531. 546. 

Cullum, Sir John, death of, vi. 296. 

Culpeper on the medical efficacy of the 
herb cleavers, v. 424. 

Cumberland, Anne (Luttrell-Horton) 
Duchess of, iv. 383. 465 note. 

Cumberland, Duke of. See Ernest Au- 
gustus, Prince. 

Cumberland, Henry Frederick, Duke 
of, iii. 418. iv. 226. 242. 360. His 
faux pas with Lady Grosvenor, 292. 
Anniversary of his marriage with 
" Mrs. Horton," 465. 

Cumberland, William Augustus Duke 
of, i. 74. 263, 264. 407. 439. 441. 
ii. 345 note. 421. 429. His human- 
ity at Fontenoy, ii. 354, 355. His 
father's bequest to him, iii. 609. 

Cumberland, Richard, dramatist, iv. 
409. His daughter, vi. 124 note. 

Cunningham, Mrs. iii. 166. 

Curzon, Sir Nathaniel, afterwards Lord 
Scarsdale, and his daughters, iv. 210 



Cuzzoni, Signora, opera singer, i. 117. 

125. 129. 149. 221. 418. 462. ii. 

140. iii. 32. Charged with murder, 

i. 118. 
Czartoryski, Prince and Princess, iii. 

470. 471. iv. 151. 155. 157. 
" Cyrus," a correspondent of Mary 

Granville, i. 285. 292. 343. 410. 
Dacre, Thomas Barrett Lennard, 17th 

Lord, death of, vi. 334. Devotion 

of his widow to his memory, ibid. 

note. 
Dalbin, Mrs. Frances, iv. 230. 
Dalison, Thomas, Esq. iv. 539 note. 
Dalton, Sir Charles, i. 220 and note. 

ii. 44. 
Dalton, John, divine and poet, iii. 312 

note. 330. 
Dalzcl, General, ii. 536. 



Dartmouth. 

Dalzell, Sir James, his beard and his 
beard-comb, ii. 536 note. 

Damer, Hon. Caroline, v. 93 note. 

Darner, Joseph, Esq. i. 317 note. 

Dampier, Mrs. vi. 313. 

Danby, Lord, i. 158. 

Dance, Miss, iv. 55. 

Dancer, Mrs. actress, iii. 539. 

Dancing children, painting of, iii. 495. 

" Dancing Master, Compleat Country," 
iv. 169. 

Dancing parties in 1731 and 1861. i. 
320. 

Danes, Sir Be vis's conquest of the, i. 
71. 

Dangan, former seat of the Wesleys, 
i. 350. Sketch of the gardens and 
domain, ii. 501, 502. 

Danois, Countess of, " Lady's Travels in 
Spain by," iii. 176. 

Danville, Mr. site and aspect of estate 
of, iii. 126. 

D'Arblay, Madame (Fanny Burney) 
remarks on misstatements in the 
published Diary of, vi. 125. Her 

V ' first introduction to Mrs. Delany, 
126. Strictures of the Quarterly 
Review on her memoirs of her 
father, 126, 127. State of the case 
with regard to her first interview 
with the Duchess of Portland, 127, 
128. Non-foundation of her story of 
the Duchess's compliments on her 
novel of " Evelina," 157 note. Mrs. 
Delany's estimate of her in 1785, 
279. Mrs. Agnew's comments on 
her statements relative to Mrs. 
Delany, 316—320. Further reflec- 
tions on her character, 360 — 362. 
480. See Burney, Fanny. 

Darby, Admiral George, vi. 7. 

Darcy, Lady Caroline, i. 439. 542 note. 
iv. 456. 

Darcy, Lady Emily, iv. 507. 

Darcy, Sir Conyers, i. 440. 

Darlington, Lord, iii. 417. 
Darnley, Earls of, i. 277. 291 note. ii. 
334. 337. iii. 506 note. 

Dartiguenave, Charles, Esq. dialogue 
between himself and his daughter's 
lover, i. 548. 
Dartmouth, William, 2nd Baron, on 

Burnet's History, vi. 156. 177. 
Dartmouth, William, 2nd Earl of, iii. 1. 



IN 
Dabtmoi i ll. 
28a 303. 317. W)5. 406. 17s. t80. 
578. iv. 9. L0. 10] note. 1 17 note. 
v. BO. 224. 305. 364. 390, K)6, !»>7. 
•1 L3. 543. 576, \i. !•'-. 54. 60. 84. 
1<M. 1 1.'. L15. !'!••_'. 303. 307. 313. 

314. Mrs. Delany's bequest to him, 
vi. 1-7. 

Dartmouth, France's Catherine (Ni- 

cholD wife of 2nd Karl of, iii. 475. 

v. 39. 97, 22a 224, 305, 413. 11 1. 

\i. 101 note. llo. 1 L5, 292.314, 338. 

341, 
Dartrey, Thomas Dawson, Baron, 

afterwards Visoounl Cremorne, iii. 

309. vi. 40. L96. 324. 
Dartrey, Philadelphia Hannah (Freame) 

Baroness, vi. 40. L94. 196. 229. 260. 

315. 407. 442. 447. 

Darwin, Dr. Erasmus, poet, iv. 423 
Erroneous view taken by him 

of Mrs. Delany's llower-enttiug pro- 
93, vi. 96. 
Daschkoff, Princess, v. 238. 
Dashwood, Sir Francis, ii. 148. 
Dashwood, Catherine ("little Dash") 

the " Delia" of Hammond, the poet, 

i. 108. 563. 565. ii. 33. 37. 47. 70. 

71. 184. 299. 536. 620. Hammond's 

hopeless passion, for her, ii. 204. iii. 

564. Effect of time, iii. 256. 
Dashwood, George, Esq. i. 102 note 2 . 

144 note, 
Dashwood, Mrs. i. 144. 163. 183. 202. 

220. 533. iii. 444. 474. iv. 119. 

L55. 156. v. 324. 325. 326. 353. 

365. 367. 
Dashwood, Mrs. Geo. iii. 467. 475 note. 
1 >ash\vood, Mrs. Junior, i. 209. 
Dashwood, Mrs. Richard, iii. 467. 475 

note. 
Dashwood, Sir Robert, iii. 467 note. 
Dashwood family, i. 144 note. 
Davall, Sir Thomas, 504 note. His 

widow, 543 note. Her reception as 

Duchess of Chandos, 
Davenant, Sir William, i. L26. 
Davenport, .Miss, iii. 431 note. 
Davenport, Mr. iii. 337. 430. iv. 65. 

89. i«";. 

Davies, Mr. iv. 270. 

Davis, Mrs. iii. I 

" Davy Jones," v. 153. 404. 467. 
Dawson, Arthur ("Mr. D") Irish 
Baron of Exchequer, iii. 233. 



DBX. .'>.*!•"> 

Dklany. 
Paw sen, John. >" Portarlington, 

Marl of. 

Dawson, Lady Anne (afterwards Lady 
Cremorne) iii. 309. 347. 848 note 
451, iv. 20. 

Haws. m, Lady Caroline (Stuart) after- 
wards Countess of Portarlington, v. 

1 1 . 8t < Stuart, Lady ( laroline. 
Dawson, Thomas. See Hart rev, Baron. 
Dayrolles, Mr. and Mrs. v. 459. 
Hoard, the famous jeweller, i. 189 note. 

iii. 271. 

" Deborah." See Chapone, Mrs. Sarah. 

" Deborah," oratorio of, i. 450. 452. ii. 
415. iii. 16. IS. (17. 

De Clifford, Baron, iv. 47. 235. 306. 
388. 

De Clifford, Sophia (Campbell) Ba- 
roness, v. 322. vi. 466. 

De Clifford, Barony of, iv. 235 note. 
v. L58. 18;; note. 

Deerhursl, George Lord, afterwards 
Earl of Coventry, hunting accident 
to, v. 582, 583. ' 

Deering, Miss, ii. 446. 

Deering, Mrs. i. 268, 269. 

Defoe's "Life of Duncan Campbell," 
iv. 48. 

De Grey, Countess, iv. 427. 436. 

De Grey, Lord Harold, i. 187. 

De Greys, the, i. 186. 

Dehany, Mr. iv. 4. 

De la Bere, Anne, afterwards Mrs. Ber- 
nard Dewes, v. 248. 261. 284 note. 
297.348. Her death, 554. 

De la Bere, Harriet Joan, afterwards 
Mrs. John Dewes (Granville) v. 337 
note. 348. 569. 

De la Hay, Mrs. ii. 25. 297. 298. 

De la Hay, Peter, i. 433 note. 

Delane, Dennis, i. 599. 

Delanv, Dr. Patrick, Dean of Down 
(" Dessario," " D. D.") first wife of, 
i. 227 note 369. 372 note. Com- 
mencement of his acquaintance with 
Marv Granville, 296. His letter on 
behalf of Mrs. Barber, 321— 323. His 
book on Revelation, 395. Memento 
bequeathed to him by Swift, 603. 
Character of his proposal of marriage 
to Mary Granville, 209. ii. 209. 

1 lis letters in furtherance of the same 
object, 210—216. Date of their 
marriage, 218. 219. His Sermons on 



536 



INDEX. 



Delany. 
Social duties, 226 note. Mrs. Mon- 
tagu's estimate of his character, 232. 
At backgammon, 251. Prospects of 
a bishopric, 264. 313. 364. 367. 
Preaches before the King, 289. Ga- 
zetted Dean of Down, 300. 301. 318. 
His liberality to his relations, 339. 
His conferences with the Misses Mac- 
dermot, 346. 348. 353. In his 
deanery, 358. 363. Dr. Barber's lines 
on him, 375. With the Lord Lieu- 
tenaut, 396. 402. Harassed by law 
proceedings, iii. 71. 76. Tythe suit, 
71. 88. Litigation with the Tenni- 
sons, 71. 111. 138. 139. 140. 143. 
146. 149, 150. 172. 187. 188. 191. 
194. 197. 198. 199. 200. 226. 247. 
270. 418. 458. 470. 481. 487. 489. 
494. The burnt document, 86. 106. 
107. 110. 169. 188. 492. Purity of 
his intentions, 138. 141. 147. 149. 
189. 195. 208. Lord Mansfield's 
judgment and its results, 490. 491. 
492. False reports of his elevation 
to a bishopric, 100. 175. Mr. Ad- 
derley's generous offer to him, 155. 
His promise to provide for (Sally 
Chapone, 453. His periodical. See 
" Humanist, The." His allowance for 
housekeeping, 530. Attacked with 
palsy, 267. 268. Obtains a royal 
patron for a volume of sermons, 272. 
His " Observations on Lord Orrery's 
Remarks on Swift," 279. Same 
much talked about, 286, 287. His 
estimate of his wife's character, 387 
—393. Again in litigation, 102. 108. 
His death, monumental inscription, 
&c. 141 — 143. His last moments, 143, 
144. See also i. 299. 402. 404. 407. 
416. 420. 421 note. 503. 523. 539. 
540. 552. 555. 600. ii. 199. 209. 
220. 222. 224. 234. 242. 243 note. 
246. 253. 254. 258. 261. 262. 280. 

282. 286. 334, 335. 338. 365. 377. 
403. 410. 437. 554. 583. 588. 633. iii. 
15. 41. 42. 70.83. 102, 103. 146. 166. 
183. 198. 202. 203. 211. 232. 276. 

283. 330. 346 note. 354. 357. 393. 
396. 452. 488. 545. 600. iv. 17. 26. 
46. 68. 112. 115. 118. 137. Letters 
from him : To Mrs. Dewes (his wife's 
sister) ii. 247. iii. 101. 386. To 
Bernard Granville, ii. 438. To Mrs. 



Derby. 
Pendarves (afterwards Mrs. Delany) 
ii. 210. 212. 213. 214, 216. 

Delany, Miss (Dr. Delany's niece), 
afterwards Mrs. Green, ii. 308. 317. 
319. 335. 338. 339. See Green, 
Mrs. 

Delany, Mrs. See Granville, Mary. 

Delaval, Sir Francis Blake, iv. 235 
note. 

Delawarr, John, 7th Baron and 1st 
Earl, iii. 77 note. 129. iv. 62. 123. 

Delawarr, John, 2nd Earl, iv. 178. 

Delawarr, Lord and Lady, i. 100 and 
note. 117. 125. 137. 185. 367. 547. 
ii. 268. 

Delawarr, Mary ( Wynyard) Countess, 
iv. 62. v. 337. 351. 440. 

Delme, Lady Betty, v. 401. 

Delme, Mr. and Miss, i. 483. 

Delme, Peter, Esq. iv. 260 note. 

Deloraine, Henry, 1st Earl of, i. 166 
note 2 . 

Delves, Rhoda, Lady, i. 609. iii. 253. 

Delves, Sir Thomas, i. 609 note 8 . 

Delville, Dr. Delany's villa, i. 397. 
421. Remains of Mrs. Delany's 
(Mary Granville's) artistic taste 
there, i. 398. Its aspect in 1744, 
ii. 309, 310. 314—316. In 1860, 
310 note. In the market, iv, 161. 
165. 172. 

Denbigh, Basil, 4th Earl of, i. 209 
note. Basil, 6th Earl v. 459 note. 

Denbigh, Mary (Bruce Cotton) Coun- 
tess of, v. 459. 

Denham, Sir John, poet, iv. 283. 

Denmark, King of, arrival in Enoland 
of, iv. 150. " Puppet of the day," 
150 note. Excitement on his going 
to see Garrick act, 155, 156. At a 
royal ball, 166 — 168. His masque- 
rade at the Haymarket, 172. 180, 
186. Feted at Sion House, 180 note. 
His bounty to the mob, and gifts to 
officials and celebrities, 188. Ru- 
mours of his conjugal difficulties at 
home, 554. 

Dennv, Lady Arabella, ii. 548. 605. 
iii. 286. 548 note. 554. 

D'Eon, Chevalier, alleged ambi-sex 
personage, vi. 355, 356. Sketch, 355 
note. 

Derby, Edward, Earl of, iv. 344 note. 

Derby, Earls of. See Stanley. 



INDEX. 
Dbbbt. 

Derby, Elizabeth (Hamilton) 

teas of, v. 34a tOO. 101. 451. 
Derbyshire Peak, plants found 

206, 207. 
Derham, William, D.D. ii. 295, 

\\ ritings, ibid, noti . 
IV Etoa, Baroness, Sot Boyle, 

lotto. 
Deny, Bishop of, iii, 56. 68. 94. 

365, 
Deny, Bishops of. See Barnard, Dr. 

William ; Stone, Dr. George. 
Derwentwater, James, 3rd Earl of, i. 

4& .". note. 

Desaguliers, Dr. J. Theophilus, the 

philosopher, i. 4iil noU . 
Desmond, George Earl of, and Lady, 



Conn- 
in. vi. 

His 

Char- 
348. 



Des] oncer, Francis Lord Le, v. 549. 
" \\ Bsario." Si - lVlany, Dr. 
D^Estaign, French commander, Victor, 

456. 46a Defeated, 499. 
Dettingen Te Deum, ii. 222 note. 
De Veil, CoL the magistrate, i. 598. 
Devereux, lion. Mr. i. G09, note 6 . 
Devonshire, Georgiana (Spencer) Du- 
ss of, v. 5. 98. 111. 114. 115. 

276. 351. 440. 486. 5G1. 576. vi. 

62. 122. 1G5. 2(58. Letter from her 

to Mrs. Port. v. ~^)6. 
Devonshire, Duke of, ii. 244. 256. 258. 

259. 261. 264. 270. 281. 283. 285. 

289. 292. 294. 296. 298. 301. iii. 

442. 584, note. iv. 88 note. 89. 403. 

593 note, v. 5. 351. vi. 165. 

.t Meditations," Charles Howes's, 

iv. 578. 
Dewes (or D'Ewes) family, origin of 

the, ii. 90 note. Their hereditary love 

for angling, L94 note. 
Dewes, Mr. (lather of John Dewes, 

husband of Anne Granville) ii. 475. 

477. 
Dewes, Mrs. (wife of above) ii. 154, 

155. 163. 176. Her death, 389. 
Dewes, John (husband of Anne Gran- 
ville, Mary Granville's Bister) ii. 75. 

76. 81. 83. 91. 92, 93. 95, 96. 100. 

102. 10:3. 107. 115. 118. 119. 128. 

129. 131. 139. 140. 143. 154. L55. 

167. L63. 166. L66. 181. 182. 184. 

188. 194. 196. L98. 206. 206. 209. 

217. 219. 225. 230. 237. 238. 24a 

259. 262. 263. 264. 277. 284. 343. 






Dr.u BS. 
420. 131. 177. 484, 



537 



485. 512. 



i60. 572. 



iv. 95. L07. \ - i.e. 226. 
Period of his death, 428. 439. 
Prayer by him, 428. 429. Letters 

from him to his wife, ii. L73. To 
his son, Court Dewes, v. 438. To 
his son, Rev. John Dewes, iv. 49 1. 
577. v. L7. 426. To his daughter, 
Mary Dewes, afterwards Mrs. Tort, 
iii. 630. iv. 55. 

Dewes, Rev. John (afterwards Gran- 
ville) iv. 63. 96. 100. l-o. L23. 131. 
134. 198. 322. 389. 406. 431. v. 149. 
337 note. 339. 346. 347. vi. 6. 227. 
254, After taking the name of 
Granville, 300. 301. 302. 309. 314. 
Mrs. Delany's bequests to him and 
his wife, 485. Letters from him to 
liis wife (Ann Granville) ii. 173. 
To his sister, Miss Dewes (afterwards 
Mrs. Tort) iii. 161. To Countess 
Cowper, v. 348. 

Dewes, Bernard ("Bunny") ii. 554. 
iii. 24. 53. iv. 85.93. 118. 355.389. 
v. 149. 248. 249. 261. 275. 287. 288. 
376 note. 391. 427. 514. 555. 557. 
561. 570. 581. vi. 124. 166. 197. 
425. 434. 465. Mrs. Delany's be- 
quests to him, 485, 486. Letters 
from him to Mrs. Dickenson, vi. 479. 
Same to Mrs. Viney, v. 147. 

Dewes, Mrs. Bernard (Anno Dela Bere) 
letter to Mrs. Viney from, v. 284. 

Dewes, Anne (daughter of above) 
afterwards Mrs. Stratton, v. 376 
note. 

Dewes, Court, ii. 174, note. 224. 379. 
420. 573. iii. 48. 53. 529. 545. 550. 
600. iv. 39. 101. 107. 258. 355. 
533. v. 149. 339. 365. 404. 463. 519. 
523. 529. 557. 570. vi. 309. 357. 425. 
434. Mrs. Delany's bequests to him, 
485,486,487. His death, 498. Ex- 
tracts from liis letters from the Con- 
tinent, iv. 470 — 472. Letters from 
him to Mrs. Delany, v. 272. To his 
brother Bernard Dewes, v. 346. To 
his brother, llev. John Dewes (Gran- 
ville) v. 391. vi. 256. 301. To 
Mrs. Dewes (his brother John's wife) 
vi. 341. To his sister Mary (Mrs. 
Port) iv. 533. To his niece, Miss 
Port, vi. 129. 461. 4(17. To Miss 
Hamilton, vi. 207. 



538 



INDEX. 



Dewes. 
Dewes, Mary, daughter of Mrs. Dewes 
(Anne Granville) ii. 425. 427. iii. 
610. 628. iv. 2. 43. 97. 118. 125. 
142. 146. 237. 266. 310. Her mar- 
riage, 312 note. Letters from her to 
her brother, Rev. John Dewes (after- 
wards Granville) iv. 8. 14. 131. 134. 
135. To John Port (her husband) 
266—270. See Port, Mrs. 
" Dialogues of the Dead," Lord Lyttel- 

ton's, iii. 602. 
"Diana and Endymion," serenata of, 

ii. 67 note. 
Digby, Barons and Earls, iv. 306. v. 

403 note. 
Digbv, Hon. Charlotte (Fox) death of, 
v. 403. 

Digby, Hon. Lucy (Fox) iv. 553. 
Sympathetic cure of her malady, 
555. 

Digby, Mary (Knowles) Lady, iv. 306 
note. 

Digby, Hon. Stephen, iv. 553 note. 

Digby, Major, vi. 148. 

Dill, Mr. iii. 587. 

Dillon, Arthur, Esq. iii. 410. 

Dillon, Lady, vi. 137. 

Dillon, Miss, iii. 14. 22. iii. 156. See 
Preston, Mrs. 

Dillon, Mr. and family, i. 374. ii. 467. 
469. 

Dillon, Mrs. ii. 600. 609. 611. 618. 
iii. 9. 19. 29. 108. 128. 148. 410. 
636. 

"Dining with Duke Humphry," v. 
494. 

Dinners in Mrs. Delany's time ; bills of 
fare, ii. 331. 332. 468. iii. 87. 155. 
iv. 27. 

" Dioclesian," opera of, i. 101. 

Dipple, old Frank, v. 438. 

Dives, Miss, dresser to the Princess of 
Orange, i. 448 note, 449. 

Dobson, Mr. S. and blood-eating, iii. 
240 and note. 

Dobson, Mr. and Mrs. iii. 359. 364. 

Dobyns, Robert, Esq. i. 173 note. 

Docksey, Miss, iv. 59. 

Docksey, Mrs. iii. 359. 368. iv. 58. 

Dod, Lady, i. 273. 

Dodd, Rev. Dr. William, forger and 
poet, v. 508. 

Dodington, George Bubb, Lord Mel- 
combe, ii. 198, 199 notes. 



Donellan. 
Dodington, Mrs. ii. 202. 
Dodsley, Robert, bookseller and author, 

i. 618. ii. 463. iii. 531. 595 note. 

iv. 443 note. 
Dodwell, Miss, ii. 195. 341. 
Domville, Sir Thomas, i. 338 note. 
Donegal, Arthur, Earl of Belfast and 

Marquis of, iv. 60. 67. 291 note. His 

three wives, 60 note. 
Donegal Anne (Hamilton) Lady, iv. 

Wnote. 89. 272. 291. 
Donaldson, Dr. on medicinal efficacy of 

spiders, ii. 274. 
Donellan, Rev. Dr. Christopher, i. 281, 

284. 368. 387. 396. 406. 409. 417. 

470. ii. 611. 620. iii. 6. 10. 11. 

21. 32. 
Donellan, Mrs. or Miss (" Sylvia," 

"Phil," "Philomela") i. 223. 227. 

228. 230. 241, 242. 251. 253. 255. 

256. 257. 272. 273. 276. 278. 281. 

283. 284 note. 286. 287. 290. 296. 

300. 317. 326. 327. 328. 332. 334, 

335. 336. 340. 341. 342. 345. 354. 

355. 356. 357. 361. 368. 373. 381. 

382. 383. 385. 387. 396. 397. 403. 
415. 417. 423, 424. 443. 449. 452. 
453. 454. 455. 457. 460. 464. 466. 
469. 472. 476. 477. 486. 490. 493. 
498. 499. 505. 507. 508. 518. 524. 
527. 528. 533. 534. 539. 540. 541. 
551. 555. 568. 580. ii. 21. 25. 26. 
31. 35. 40. 84. 93. 132. 135. 139. 
140. 165. 167. 174. 182. 195. 196. 
197. 198. 221. 227. 230. 233. 234, 
245. 246. 248. 252. 255. 257. 260. 
262. 270. 290. 297. 299. 347. 381. 

383. 384. 393. 403. 405. 420. 446. 
453. 464. 469. 532. 536. 537. 551. 
603. 611. 617. iii. 15. 47. 94. 333. 
415. 444. 466. 507. 544. 551. 625. 
iv. 85. Her estimate of Mary Gran- 
ville, ii. 176—180. Unkindness of 
her brother, iii. 35. Her quarrel with 
Mrs. Clayton, 55, 94. 299. Her 
" great offence," iii. 90. Too exact- 
ing in her affections, 456 note. 

Donellan, Mr. i. 286. 373. 379. 382. 

383. 385. 386. 387. 388. ii. 308. 

616. 
Donellan, Nehemiah, Irish Lord Chief 

Baron, i. 213, note. 284, note. 293. 
Donellan, Nehemiah, son of last named, 

i. 348. 387. 406. 410. 






[NDEX. 



539 



DONBB \n i . 

Doneraile, Arthur Mohun, 3rd Yis- 

oount, 11. 6l 0. 
Donne, Mr. i. 165. 
Donovan, Juliana, iv. L04 note. 
Dormer, Sir Clement Cottrell, ii. 210. 

220. 223. 294, 299, 
" Dormouse,*' the, an article of dress, 

iii. 260. 
Dorset, John Frederick, 3rd Duke of, 

vi. 345. 
Dorset, Elizabeth, Duchess of, i. 138. 

288. 290. 294. 309. 317. 318. 334 

. 343. iii. 51. 66. 80. 117. 

Dorset, Lionel, Duke of, Lord-Lien- 

tenant of Ireland, i. 237 note. 288 

nut,. 295. 297 note. 301. 309. 317. 

329. 332. 338, 343. 599. ii. (US. 

620. 630. iii. 51. 66. SO. 113. 117. 

339. iv. 10. 
Dorset, John Frederick, 3rd Duke of, 

v. 93. 400. 401. vi. 345. 
Douglas, Archibald, Duke of, i. 3 note. 
Douglas, Lady -Jane, Mary (iranville's 

■bellow, i. 2. 3 and note. 
Douglas, Lord, ii. 223. 
Dowdeswell, Charles, Esq. i. 254. 
Down, Bishops of. See Ryder, Dr. 

John. Whitcombe, Dr. John. 
Down, town and cathedral of, ii. 360, 

361. 363. 
Downpatrick, site and aspect of, ii. 

326. 
Downshire, Marquis of, i. 215 note. 
Drake, Lady, v. 403. 
Drake, Mr. of Amersham, v. 245. 
Drake, Mrs. i. 173. 
Drake, Rev. Dr. i. 173 note. 
Drax, Miss, afterwards Lady Walde- 

grave, iii. 336. 
Dress. See Costume. 
Drelincourt, Dr. Dean of Armagh, 

ii. 443 note. iii. 351. 470, notes. 
Drelincourt, Miss. See Primrose, Vis- 
countess. 
Drelinconrt, Mrs. iii, 348. 349. 351. 

Her death, 357. 
Drogheda, Anne (Seymour Conway) 

Lady, v. 577. 599. Her death, vi. 

240. 
Drogheda, Bridget (Southwell) Lady, 

iii. 114. 118. 
Drogheda, Edward Karl of, drowned, 

iii! 527. His daughter, 596 note. 

iv. 167 neb . 



I M ffOOlfBK. 

Dromore, Bishops of. 8a Brown, Dr. 
J. ; Marlay, 1 Or. ( teorge ; Fletcher, 1 >r. 

Thomas. ' 
Drumlanrig, Lady, iii. 423. 

Drumlanrig, Charles Lord, narrow 
escape of from the Lisbon earthquake, 
iii. 381. 385. 

Drumlanrig, Eenry Lord, fatal accident 
to, iii. 292. 296. 

Drununond, Hon. Robert, Bishop of St 
Asaph and of Salisbury, and Arch- 
bishop o( Fork, ii. 506. 519. iii. 
254. 259. 338. 379. 470. 618. v. 
269.27(). 284. 

Drununond, Mr. ii. 228. 230. 237. iv. 
230. 515 note. 

Dry den, John, on Lord Orrery's 
"Mustapha," i. 123 note. His 
"Spanish Fryar," 294 and note. His 
dedication to his Pastorals, iii. 37. 

Dublin, Archbishop of. See Agar, Dr. 
Charles ; Cobbe, Dr. 

Dubouraj, Matthew, violinist, i. 149. 
172 and note. 286. 287. 293. 312. 
337. ii. 416. 428. 616. 627. iii. 
52. GS. 81. 579. 

Dncie, Margaret (Eamsden) Baroness, 
v. 353. vi. 386. 

Ducie, Thomas Reynolds, 2nd Baron, 
vi. 386. 

Duck, Stephen, the poet, i. 321. 

Dunbar, Lieut.-Col. George, iv. 236 
note. 

Dunbar, Mr. iii. 587. iv. 241. v. 
398. 

Dunbar, Mrs. v. 393. 

Duncan, Lady Mary, v. 44. 331. 

Duncan, Mr. iv. 412. 

Duncan, Sir William, on the use of a 
wife, v. 44. His death, 44 note. 

Duncannon, Henrietta Frances (Spen- 
cer) Lady, afterwards Countess of 
Bessborough, v. 351 note, 507. 552. 
vi. 268. 

Duncannon, William, Viscount, v. 552 
note. 576. 

Dunch, Arabella, her husband and pa- 
rentage, i. 104 and note 2 . 

Duncombe family, i. 128, 129 notes. 
Feversham, Lord. 

Duncombe, Bon. and Kcv. F. i. 222. 

Duncombe, Mr. iii. 299. 304. 

Duncombe, Mrs. i. 331. 499. 557. ii. 
24. 47. 139. 194. 220. 272. 275. 307. 



540 



INDEX. 



DlJNCOMBE. 

312. 400. 427. 602. 625. 627. iii. 

14. 59. 248. 
Dunccmbe, Thomas, Esq. iv. 412 note. 
Dundonald, John Earl of, i. 610 note. 
Dungannon, Arthur Hill, 1st Viscount. 

See Hill, Arthur. 
Dunkerron, Lord aud Lady, i. 610. 
Dimoyer, Mr. iii. 537. 585. 
Dunoyer, Mrs. iv. 508. 
Dunstanville, de, Francis Basset, First 

Lord, i. 23 note. iii. 431, note. 450 

note. iv. 300 note. vi. 217 note. 
Du Poivre, Mons. ii. 180. 227. 234. 
Du Pass, Samuel, Esq. i. 300 note. 
Dupplin, Thomas Viscount (" Dup ") 

afterwards Earl of Kinnoul, i. 521 

note. 542. 610. ii. 20. 22. 30. 84. 

151. 183. 237. iii. 254. 480. 619. 
Durell, Mrs. v. 170. 173. 
Durer, Albert, stained glass windows 

by, v. 9, note. 
Durham, Bishop of. See Egerton, Hon. 

John. 
Dutens, Mr. iii. 413. 478. 
Dutton, Sir John, i. 418. 
Dutton, Sir Ralph, ii. 207 note. 
Dynever, Baron, iv. 9 note. 
Dysart, Grace Lady (see also Carteret, 

Hon. Grace) i. 273. 369. 372. 419. 

426. 428. 431. 447. 449. 454. 468. 

478. 479. 485. 493. 500. 558. 582. 

584. 586. 589. 608. ii. 27. 29. 36. 

38. 70. 71. 148. 226. 269. 285. 297. 

450. 452. iii. 174. v. 105. Letter 

from her to Mrs. Delany, ii. 487. 
Dysart, Lionel, 3rd Earl of, i. 203 note. 

210. 211. iii. 12. 349. 383 note. iv. 

62 note. v. 313 note. 
Dysart, Lionel, 4th Earl of, v. 327. 
Dysart, Louisa Tollemache, Countess 

of, wife of John Manners, Esq. See 

Tollemache, Lady Louisa. 
Dysart, old Lady, marriage of, i. 546. 
Dysart, Wilbraham Tollemache, 5th 

Earl of, iv. 485 note. 

Eardley, Sir Culling, Bart. vi. 367 note. 

Eastcourt, Mrs. ii. 162. 

Eaton, Sir Thomas, i. 447 note. 

Eccles, Mrs. iii. 17. 

Echard, Lawrence, M.A. English his- 
torian, iii. 204. 

" Economy of Human Life," ii. 624 
note. 627. 



Egerton. 
" Eden," Sir John Hill's, iii. 551. 
Eden, Robert, Esq. and wife, i. 250. 
Eden. See Auckland. 

Edgcombe, Edgcumbe (or Edcombe) 
Richard, Esq. afterwards Baron Edg- 
combe, i. 80. 97 and note. 258. 491 
note. ii. 175. 

Edgcumbe, George, 3rd Baron (after- 
wards 1st Earl of Mount Edgcumbe) 
and Emma (Gilbert) Lady, iii. 433. 
iv. 219 note. 226. 303. v. 172. 178. 
227. 296. 356. 360. 399. 437. 525. 
535. 537. 543. See Mount Edg- 
cumbe. 

Edgcumbe, Piers and Sir Kichard, an- 
cestors of the Mount Edgcumbe 
peers, i. 258 note. 

Edgcumbe, Richard, afterwards 2nd 
Earl of Mount Edgcumbe, iv. 589. 

Edgeworth family at home, iii. 122. 

Edgeworth, Master, iii. 246. 

Edgeworth, Piichard Lovell, iii. 248. 
287. iv. 423 note. On the physick- 
ing inflicted on children in his day, 
vi. 369 note. 

"Edward and Eleanora," Thomson's 
tragedy of, iii. 571. 

"Edward the Black Prince," tragedy 
of, ii. 536, 537. 

Edward Augustus, Prince, brother of 
George III. afterwards Earl of Ulster 
and Duke of York, iii. 335. iv. 14. 

Edward, Prince, son of George III. 
afterwards Duke of Kent, vi. 254. 

Edwards, Captain, iii. 367. 370. 394. 

Edwards, Mr. i. 265. 

Edwards, Thomas, Esq. iii. 434 note. 

Edwin, Lady Catherine, ii. 201. 

Edwin, Lady Charlotte, iv. 485. 

Edwin, Miss, i. 284. 400. 547. 

Effingham, Dowager Countess of, burnt 
to death, v. 70. 

Effingham, Elizabeth (Beckford) 
Countess of, vi. 153. 388. 

Egerton, Hon. Anne, Lord Berkeley's 
bequests to, v. 25. 

Egerton, Hon. John, Bishop of Lich- 
field and of Durham, i. 188. ii. 30. 
iv. 132. 254 note. vi. 66. His 
wives, ibid. note. 

Egerton, Lady Diana, i. 249. iii. 578 
note. 

Egerton, Lady Eliz. iv. 9. 10. 

Egerton, Lady Louisa, iv. 358 note. 






INDKX. 



541 



Egbrton. 
Bgerton, Miss, ill. 465. 467. vi. 341. 
Bgerton, Miss, the greal Cheshire 

heiress, v. 277. 

ton, Mrs. story of, i. 591. 
Eg* rton, Mrs. iii. 434. v. 569. 
Egmont, John Percival, 1st Earl of, i. 

213 net . I" 1 nofi . ii. 260, not* . 
Egmont, John Percival, 2nd Earl of, i. 

473 »oi . 174. iii. 398. 406. iv. 

307. 
Egmont, Catherine, wife o[* John, 1st 

Karl o[\ ii. 32. 148. 140. 2G0. Her 

death, iii. L54. 
Bgremont, Chas. Karl o£, ii. 450 note. 

iii. 421. iv.344. 
Egremont, George O'Brien, 3rd Earl of, 

' v. 88. 540. 553. 

mont, Lady, vi. 153. 33G. 
. the painter, iii. 254. His 

history, 255. iv. 1G3. 173. 240. 
M Elfrida," Mason's drama o(, iv. 488. 
Eliot, George Augustus, afterwards 

Lord Heathfield, iv. 171, note. 424. 

His heroic defence of Gibraltar, vi. 

77, 
Eliot, Lady Frances, ii. 5. iv. 283. 

424. 
Eliot, Sir Gilbert, iv. 171. 
Elizabeth, Princess, afterwards Princess 

of Hesse Homburg, daughter of Geo. 

III. vi. 70. 106. 148. 315. 316. 318, 

319. 323. 325. 326. 327. 328. 329. 

330. 331. 333. 335. 339. 390. 393. 

397. 404. 
Elisabeth, Queen, painting of, ii. 27. 

House in which she was nursed, 288 

note. Her house at Enfield, iv. 428. 
Elliott, Captain, i. 144. 166. iv. 283. 
Elliott, Gilbert (son of Sir Gilbert) 1st 

Lord Minto, v. 262. 287. 
Elliott, Lady Harriet (Pitt) vi. 395, 

. 
Elliott. See Eliot ; Minto. 
Ellis, Dr. i. 455. 
Ellis, Miss, dying, vi. 153. 
Ellis, Mr. Lord of the Admiralty, ii. 

553. 55 L 556. 567. 
Ellis, Mrs. i. 486. ii. 553. 554. 
Ellitt, Molly, i. 531. 
Elphin, Bishop of. See Bolton, Dr. 

Theophilus; Synge, Dr. Edward. 
Ekheimer, Adam, painter, beauty and 

value of pictures by, iv. 162 note. 
Elsmere, Dr. Sloane, ii. 266 note. 



El 8TOK. 

Elstob, Elizabeth, author of the Anglo- 
Saxon Grammar, biographic Bketoh 
of, i. 260^-263. ii. 14, 15. is. 20. 
::i. 33. 67, note. L31.137. 227. 238. 

4 11. 517. iii. 241. 2515. 260. 291. 
419. 422.428. Her death, 431. 432. 

Letters from her to Anne Granville, 
ii. L6. 55. 67. 85. 99. iii. 215. 

Elton, Miss, iii. 452. 

Ely, Bishop of. See Patrick, Dr. Simon. 

Emerson, Mr. iii. 84. 86. 91. 95. 103. 

104. 106. 107. 110. 
" Endymion," musical piece, iii. 541. 
Enfield, Queen Elizabeth's house at, iv. 

428, 429. Enfield Chase, 428 note. 
Enwin, Mrs. iii. 181. See Iniven. 
Enys, John, Esq. iii. 450, note. 
Epicurus, Mary Granville's opinion of, 

i. 455. 
Epsom, manor and old church of, i. 246, 

247. 249. 
Erminius, opera of, i. 579. 
Ernest, Prince, iv. 242. 
Ernest Augustus, Prince, son of 

George III. birth of, iv. 344. 
Ernie, John Kyrle, Esq. iii. 254 note. 
Errol, Earl of, iii. 336 note. 
" Esquire," use of the term, iv. 85 note. 
" Essay on Spirit," Bishop Clayton's, 

iii. 85. 111. 112. 493. Robert Hill's 

remarks, 551 note. 
Essex, Algernon Capel, Earl of, i. 136 

note. 141 note. 168. 
Essex, Harriet (Bladen) Countess of, 

v. 401. 
Essex, Lord, and Captain Croft, the 

swindler, v. 72. 
Essex, Robert Devereux, Earl of, i. 99 

note. 
Essex, William, 3rd Earl of, ii. 205 

note. 206. iii. 248 note. iv. 249. 

note. 296 note. 
Essex, William Anne, 4th Earl of, ii. 

102 note. iv. 249 note. 
Este, Dr. Bishop of Ossory, ii. 402 

note. 
" Esther," oratorio of, i. 532. 
Etherege, Sir George, i. 175 note. 
Eton School riot, vi. 171, 172. 
Eugene, Prince, witticism of, vi. 179. 
" European Settlements in America," 

iii. 498. 
Euston, George Lord, ii. 205. 235. 
Euston, Dorothy Boyle, Lady (Lord 



542 



INDEX. 



; 



Evans. 

Burlington's daughter) ii. 205, note. 

206. 235, note 5 . Conduct of her 
husband towards her, vi. 156. 

Evans, General, i. 170. 

" Evelina," Miss Burney's novel of, vi. 

157 note. 
Evelyn, Colonel Edward, v. 328. 
Evelyn, Elizabeth, widow of Richard, 

i. 246. 
Evelyn, George Raymond, iv. 360, note. 

463 note. 
Evelyn, John, author of " Sylva," &c. 

i. 246. v. 256, 257. 
Evelyn, Lady Jane, iv. 360 note. 463 

note. 
Evelyn, Miss, hi. 332. iv. 207 note. 
Evelyn, Mr. v. 329. 
Evelyn, William Glanville, iv. 207 

note. 369. 
Evelyn family, v. 383 note. 
" Every Man in his Humour," hi. 286. 
Exeter, Bishop of. See Keppel, Dr. 

Frederick ; Ross, Dr. John. 
Exeter, Brownlow, 9th Earl of v. 407. 
Eyre, Henry, Esq. iii. 517, note. 
Eyre, Mr. dialogue between Charles 

Dartiguenave and, i. 548. 

Fabri, Signor, opera singer, i. 184 note. 
185. 

Fabrici, M. Hanoverian Minister ("Ger- 
manico")i. 83. 90,91. 

Fairfax, Mrs. ii. 259. 

Fairford church, and its beautiful win- 
dows, v. 9. 17. 

Falkland, Anthony Viscount, ii. 394, 
note. 

Falkland, Lucius Henry, 5th Viscount, 
iv. 539 note. 

Falkland, Lucius Cary, 6th Viscount, 
and his second wife, iii. 173. 181. 
464. 465, 466. 

Falkner, Mr. iii. 85. 

Falmouth, George Evelyn, 3rd Vis- 
count, iv. 207, 513 notes, v. 465 
note. vi. 137. 234. 

Falmouth, Elizabeth Anne (Crew) wife 
of 3rd Viscount, vi. 234. 

Falmouth, Hugh, 2nd Viscount, iv. 

207, 297, 369, 443, 451, 574 notes. 
vi. 65 note. 75. 

Falmouth, Hannah (Russell) Dowager 
Viscountess, v. 38. vi. 75. Her 
death, 418. i 



Ferns. 

Fane, John, Esq. iv. 464 note. 

Farinelli, opera singer, i. 449 note. 510. 
516. 517. 519. 532. 554. 580. iv. 47 
note. 

" Farinelli at Madrid," ii. 298 note. 

Farish, Mr. botanist, vi. 38. 

Farnham, John Maxwell, Lord, and 
Judith (Barry) Lady, iii. 500. 

Farren, Miss, the actress, afterwards 
Countess of Derby, v. 4 note. 

" Fashionable Lover," the, Cumber- 
land's comedy of, iv. 409. 

Fashions in Mary Granville's time. See 
Costume. 

" Fate of Ambition," iii. 402. 

Faulkner, George, Swift's Dublin 
printer, hitched into a verse, iii. 79. 

Faulkner, Lady, iii. 588. 

Faustina, opera singer, i. 129. 149. 
173. 

Fawkes, Francis, translator of the Greek 
poets, v. 278, 279. 

Feilding (or Fielding) Captain Charles, 
iii. 464 note. 

Feilding, Hon. Charles, i. 609 note \ 

Feilding, Lady Frances, ii. 268 note. 

Feilding, Lady Mary, singular marriage 
of, i. 157 note 3 . 209, 210. 211. 

Feilding, Mrs. daughter of Lady Char- 
lotte Finch, iii. 464. vi. 4. Her 
daughters, " the Feildings," 433. 437. 

Feilding. See Fielding. 

Feltham, Owen, author of the "Re- 
solves," &c. vi. 64. 

Felton, Sir Thomas, i. 179. 

"Female Club," the, iv. 261, 262. 
Walpole a member, 261 note. 

" Female Falshood " recommended by 
Steele, i. 450 note. 

" Female Quizote," Mrs. Lennox's, iii. 
116. 

Fenelon, Monsieur, i. 146. 

Fermor, Lady Anne. See Dawson, La- 
dy Anne. Lady Charlotte, ii. 294. 
See Finch, Lady Charlotte. Lady 
Juliana. See Penn, Lady Juliana. 
Lady Louisa. See Clayton, Lady 
Louisa. 

Fermor, Lady Sophia, afterwards wife 
of John, Lord Carteret, Earl Gran- 
ville, iii. 339, 348 notes. 411. iv. 
94 note. 175. 499 note. 

Ferns, Bishop of. See Garnet, Dr. 
John. 



INDEX 

FSBBBBS. 

urn, Lawrence Shirley, Earl, hanged 



54; 



588. 591. 

Ferrers, Richard, author of " Woman's 
Worth," iii. 324. 

Perrers, Robert, Lsl Marl, i. Ml note. 
sham peerage, i. 12;> note. 
lam, Antony Duncombe, Lord, 
iii. 364. 367, 171. 

1-Vvorsham, Frances (Bathurst) Lady, 
death o(, iii. 171 . 

"Fidelio and Harriot," iii. 240, 

" Fidget," Mrs. Montagu, why so called, 
ii. 95, 

Fielding Henry, efTed oi the dramatic 
satires o\\ i. 554 /"■ / '. His " Miser," 
ii. 98. His novels, ii. 300. iii. 71). 

Fielding. N i Feilding. 

Finch, Lady Augusta, vi. 113. 

Fincli, Lady Betty, ii. 8. 

Finch, Lady Charlotte (Fermor) wife 
of Hon. William, iii. 348 note. 584 
note. v. 7'i. .37-1. 377 471. 473. 
511. vi. 4, 'A). 36. 213. 220. 224. 
254, 3 Fd. 451. 

Finch, Lady Frances, afterwards Lady 
Lewisliam and Countess of Dart- 
month, vi. 110. 115. 

Finch, Lady Henease, afterwards Lady 
iborne, v. 360. 366. 

Finch, Lady Isabella, ii. 235 note. 

Finch, Lady Mary, i. 516. iii. 397 
note. 

Finch, Lord, i. 137. 209. 

Finch, Right Hon. William, iii. 464. 
His death, iv. 492. 

Finch-Hatton, Elizabeth, widow of 
Hon. Edward, vi. 304. 322. 

Finch-Hatton, Hon. Elizabeth (Mur- 
ray) wife of George, vi. 304 note. 
396. 403. 432. 

Findall, Mr. iii. 449. 

Findlater, James Ogilvy, Earl of, iv. 
344. 

Fingall, Lord, i. 602. 

raid, Lady Mary, v. 119. 

Fitzgerald, Lord Henry, v. 174. 

Fitzgerald, Margaretta, Lady Hills- 
borough, iii. 409. 

aid, Mrs. distress of, v. 270. 
Her death, 

Fitzgerald. ><< Kildare, Earls of. 

Fitzhenry, Mrs. actress, iii. 538. 

Fitzherbert of Etwall, connection of 
the Port family with, iv. 312 note. 



I'oi.kv. 
Fitzherbert, Mrs. ii. L90, iii. 227. 433. 
Fitzherbert, William, M.P. Buicide of. 

iv. ltd. 102 and not< . 
Fitzmaurice, William Lord, iii. 111. 

478. Fitzmaurice. See Shelburne. 
Fit/morris, Mr. i. 838. 
Fitzmorris, Mrs. Li. 548. 605. 
Fitzpatrick, Hon. Richard, iv. 346 

Fitzpatrick, Lady Louisa, afterwards 
Lady Shelburne, iv. 523). v. 445 
note. 

Fitzpatrick. See Ossory, Upper. 

Fitzroy, Lady Arabella, ii. 95. 

Fitzroy, Lord Charles, i. 464. 

Fitzroy, Lord Henry, iv. 250 note. 

Fitzroy, Mrs. iv. 261 note. 

Fitzsimmonds the harper, iii. 508. 

Fitzwilliam, Anne (Stringer) Lady, i. 
L29. 204. 516. 520. 

Fit zwilliam, Anne (Went worth) Ladv, 
iii. 94. 113. 302. 

Fitzwilliam, Charlotte (Ponsonby) 
Countess, vi. 335. 351. 

Fitzwilliam, General the lion. George, 
iv. 91. 116. 

Fitzwilliam, General John, letters from, 
to Miss Dewes, afterwards Mrs. Port, 
iv. 116. 414. 

Fitzwilliam, Mrs. letter to Mrs. Port 
from, iv. 315. 

Fitzwilliam, John, 2nd Irish Earl, i. 
129. 204. 516. iv. 239 note. 

Fitzwilliam, William, 3rd Irish and 
1st English Earl, i. 204 note. ii. 
175. iii. 94. 113. iv. 91 note. 

Fitzwilliam, Mrs. iv. 95. 117. 

Fleming, John Willis, Esq. i. 249. 

Fleming, Sir Michael Le, iv. 443 note. 

Fletcher, John, dramatist, iii. 280. 

Fletcher, Dr. Thomas, Dean of Down, 
afterwards Pishop of Dromore and 
of Kildare, ii. 244. 252. 296. 301 
note. 

Floyd, Mr. and Airs. iii. 620. 

Foley, Andrew (son of Thomas, after- 
wards Lord Foley, and Grace Gran- 
ville) iv. 492. 502. 

Foley, Captain, i. 475. 

Foley, Hon. Edward, iii. 293. 295. v. 

Foley, Hon. Elizabeth, v. 203. 
Foley, Hon. Mrs. (Grace, daughter of 
Lord Lansdowne, "The Princess,'" 



544 



INDEX. 



Foley. 

" Coz. Fo." " Primrose ") ii. 80. 

151. 187. 198. 202. 208. 235. 252. 

255. 257. 269. 270. 284. 287. 292. 

295. 297. 337. 338. 370. 380. 444. 

446. 447, 448. 464. 471. 524. 528. 

529. 531. 532. 537. 539. 540. 612. 

iii. 63. 303. 333. 350. 419. 451. 454. 

464. iv. 246. 579. v. 120. 197. 

354. Letters from her to her cousin, 

Anne Granville (Mrs. Dewes) ii. 7. 

69. 90. 103. 105. 113. 126. 141. 155. 

163. 185. 
Foley, Hon. Harriet, afterwards Mrs. 

Codrington, vi. 20 note. 
Foley, Lady Harriet (Stanhope) v. 189. 

203. 205, 206. In distress, 234. 

With the bailiffs, 247. 
Foley, Thomas, 2nd Lord of 1st crea- 
tion, ii. 20. 103. 297. iii. 271. iv. 

492. 
Foley, Thomas, Esq. subsequently 1st 

Lord Foley of the 2nd creation 

(husband of Grace Granville) ii. 79. 

80 and notes. 91. 126. 155. 186. 

483. v. 120. 
Foley, Thomas, afterwards 2nd Lord 
(2nd creation) iv. 493. v. 178. 189. 

203. 205. 
Foley, Thomas, Esq. ("Father Foley ") 

i, 301 note, 304 note. 306—308. 313. 

567. ii. 126. 155. 161. 163. 165. 

186. 283. 464. iii. 451, note. iv. 

591 note. Marries his fifth wife, 

ii. 296 note. 
Foley, Elizabeth (Unitt) wife of above, 

306—308. 325. 343. 362. 400. 407. 

465. 507. 531. 567. ii. 69. 79. 126. 

141. 155. 164. 165. 175. Her death, 

283, note. Letters from her to Mrs. 

Dewcs, ii. 120. 161. See Unitt, 

Elizabeth. 
Foley, Miss, i. 568. ii. 187. 296. iii. 

455. 633. iv. 579. 585 note. 
Foley, Mrs. A. vi. 7. 
Foley, Dr. Kobert, Dean of Worcester, 

iii. 451. iv. 591. v. 343. 
Foleys, the, ii. 420. 
Folkes, Thomas, Esq. i. 332 note. 
Folliat, Captain, a ball-room hero, i. 

324. 
Fontenelle's " Plurality des Mondes," 

iv. 474. 
Fontenoy, battle of, ii. 354—357. 
Fonthill, pictures at, vi. 141. 



Fountains Abbey. 
Foote, Samuel, and the Duchess of 

Kingston, v. 156. 161 note. 157. 
Forbes, Admiral, vi. 155. Hon. John, 
admiral of the fleet, iv. 329. v. 
183. 186. 403 note. vi. 155. Lady 
Blessington's odd bequest to him, v. 

42. 
Forbes, Lady Mary (Capel) iv. 329. v. 

403. vi. 75. 
Ford, Mr. Dean Swift's correspondent, 

i. 404. 510. 
Ford, Mr. T. letter to Mrs. Delany 

from, iii. 629. 
Forde, Lady Harriet, ii. 326. 
Forde, Matthew, Esq. ii. 94. 321. 322. 

326. 379 note. 574, 575. iii. 43. 96. 
Forde, Matthew, Jim. ii. 574. 589. 
Forde, Mrs. ii. 305. 318. 473. 483. 545. 

iii. 9. 
Forde, Miss, iii. 157. 162. 166. 169. 

183. 278. 595. 
Fordwich, Lord, iii. 401. 
Forrester, Mr. iii. 481. 
Forster, A. V. performance of a play of, 

i. 402. 
Forster, Dr. of Dunleer, iii. 135. 160. 
Forster, Mrs. i. 403. iii. 452. 
Forster, Eight Hon. Anthony, iv. 489 

note. 
Fortescue, Miss, ii. 72. 
Fortescue, Mr. ii. 467. 545. iii. 229. 

iv. 504. ' 
Fortescue, Mrs. (Wesley) ii. 310. 335. 

394. 553. iii. 98. 128. 129. 130. 

Dies at Lord Mornington's, 165. 
Forth, Dorothy, afterwards Mrs. Ha- 
milton, i. 319, note. ii. 318. See 

Hamilton, Mrs. Forth. 
Forth, Miss, i. 337. 339. 354. 355. 361. 

369. 372. 382. 400. ii. 308. 318. 

418. iii. 83. 126. 145. 169. 181. 
Forth, Marv, i. 288. 340. 321. 380. 

399. 460." 499. 547. 556. 558. 562. 

576. 594. 602. 620. 632. iii. 278. 

454. 464. iv. 45. 391. 
Forster, Mrs. i. 319. 
Foster, Eight Hon. Joseph, Speaker, 

Irish House of Commons, i. 319 note. 
Fothergill, Dr. iii. 255. v. 422. 487. 
Foundling Hospital, London, ii. 556. 

Performance of the " Messiah " under 

Handel's direction, iii. 272. 550. 
Fountains Abbey and its monkish 

founders, vi. 277 note. 



IN 

r.HNTAYNi:. 

Fountayne, Kev. Dr. John, Dean of 
York, iii. 316 note. \. L95. 303. 
41-1. 450. 502, 
Fountayne, Anne (Montagu) wife of 
the Dean, iii. 316. 415. v. L95. 
lit. Ber death, vi. 390. 397. 
intayne, Elizabeth, afterwards Mrs. 
Wilson, 7.676. Set Wilson, Mis. 
Elizabeth. 
Fountayne, Thomas Charles, son o\ the 
Dean, v. 414. 419. 430. 432. 434. 
436. 495. His, loath, 502. 
Fox, Charles James, iii. 346 note. v. 
145. L59.538. His "dreadful hands, " 
v. 366. His defeat in the Com- 
mons, vi. 77. False marriage report, 
138. His actual wife, ibid. note. 
His bill carried, 230. 
Fox, Colonel, afterwards Gen. the Hon. 
Henry, vi. 390 not . -I'M. 402. 407. 
. 410. 411, 412. 414. 415. 
]\>\. George Lane, afterwards Baron 

Bingley, iv. 214, vote. 
Fox, Henry, afterwards Lord Holland, 
ii. 543 note. 563. 570. iii. 403. 407 

Fax, Hon. Mrs. letters to Miss Port 

from, vi. 414. 417. 

F. \. Lady Georgians Carolina (daughter 

of Charles, 2nd Duke of Uicliniond) 

ii. "43. 552. 563. 565. 570. iii. 467. 

Pox, Master, son of the above, "a fine 

rude boy," ii. 563. Fox, See Holland. 

Foxlow, Edward, Esq. afterwards 

Murray, iv. 62 note. 
Frampton, Rev. Mr. iv. 132. 192. 199. 
231. 234. His sermon on Predesti- 
nation, 135, 136. 
Franack, Mr. iv. 128. 
Francescina, opera singer and dancer, 

ii. 254 and note 2 . 262. 271. 
Francis, Rev. Mr. tragedy by, iii. 85. 
Francklin, Dr. Thomas, iii. 575. 
Franclin, old, i. 547. 
Pranking, in Mrs. Delany's days, ii. 

511 note. 
Frankland (not Franklvn) Frederick, 
M.P. and wife, i. 136 note 4 . ii. 32. 
533. 
Frankland, Mr. and Miss, ii. 504. 
Frankland, Sir Thomas, iii. 447 note. 
Franklin, Mr. ii. 552. 
Eraser, General Simon, v. 468. 
Frederic Prince of Wales (" that young 
PART IT. VOL. ITT. 



DEX. 545 

G AMINO. 

man") i. 187. L91. 217. 437, 439. 
111. I vs. 501. 56 I not . ii. 29. L57. 
iii. 32. 336 note. iv. 360 note. 464 

note. Bis generOSit} to Miss Andrews, 

i. 268. His marriage, 556 and 
Frederick Duke ^\ York, iv. 17;: note. 

\. 478. 479.480. vi. 450. 452. 
Frederic I. of Prussia, i. 500. 

Frederick 11. of Prussia, ii. 404. His 

Menmhvs, iii. 480. 
Frederick V. of Denmark, i. 118 neU. 
Frederick, Landgrave of Hesse Cassel, 

i. 481 note. ii. 86, 87. 
Frederick, Lucy (Boscawen) Lady. v. 

143. 
Frederick, Mr. iii. 422 note. iv. 443 

note. 
Frederick, Sir Charles, iv. 369 note. 

443 note. 
Frederick, Sir John, iii. 422 note. 
Frederick, Sir Thomas, i. 378 and note. 
Fredericks, family of the, i. 367. 372. 
Freeman, Petty, i. 530. 
Freeman, Langton, an avaricious clergy- 
man, vi. 190. 
Freind, Dr. notice of, vi. 162 note. 
Freke, Lady, ii. 427, 428. 
Freke, Sir John Redmond, ii. 427 note. 
French and Spanish Fleet, victory over, 

ii. 271. 274. 275. 
Fresnoy's Art of Painting;, Dryden's and 
Mason's translations of, v. i)i\~) note. 
Fnlks, Mrs. Anne, afterwards Lady 

Cocks, i. 586 note. 
Fnllerton, Mr. iii. 494. 
"Fulvia." See Basset, Mrs. 
"Funeral," The, Steele's comedy of, ii. 

453. 
Furini, iii. 496, note. 
Furnese, Sir Henry, Bart. i. 491 note. 
Furnese, Sir Robert, Bart. i. 544 note. 



Gage, Lord, i. 369 note. 
Gainsborough, Baptist Noel, Earl of, 

iii. 627. iv. 358 note. 
Gainsborough, Thomas, the painter, iii. 

605. 
Galli, Signora, opera singer, 271 note 2 . 
Galloway, Alexander, Earl of, iii. 627. 

iv. 358 note. 
"Gamester," the, Moore's t raged}', iii. 

214. 
Gaming, Mrs. Delanv on, iv. 335. 

2 o 



54G 



INDEX. 



Gardner. 

Gardner, Right Hon. Luke, Irish Deputy 
Vice-Treasurer, iii. 551. 

Garland, Mrs. i. 139. iii. 413. 463. 

Garnet, Dr. John, Bishop of Ferns, iii. 
183. 

Gamier, Captain Charles, iv. 260 note. 

Gamier, Isaac, Esq. i. 181 note. 

Garrick, David, ii. 198. 202. 206. 423 
note. 453. 537. iii. 27. 85. iv. 63. 
155. 188. 241. 276. 281. 283. 290. 
489. v. 211. 

Garrick, Sheridan and Barry, in the 
same play together, ii. 423, 424 
note. 

Garrick, Mrs. iv. 284. 319. 393. vi. 
324. 

Garrow, Dr. v. 169. 

Gavan, Mr. and his coach and six, iii. 
101. 276. 

" Gaudentio di Lucca," story of an 
imaginary community, ii. 523. 582. 

Gay, John, i. 193, 194. 194 note. 199. 

Geary, Admiral Sir Francis, v. 544. 

Gedouyu's Lives of Eminent Painters, 
iv. 165. 

Gellert, Christian F. German poet, vi. 
394 note. 

Geminiani, musician, i. 149. 579 note 3 . 
iii. 502 note. 586 note. 

Genlis, Mad. de, vi. 35. 262 note 

" Gentleman Harry," vi. 374. 

George I. i. 140. 243. 256. 282 note. 

George II. and Queen Caroline, i. 118 
note. Queen's coronation jewels, 136. 
140. Their coronation, 137—140. 
The King's cupbearer, 287 note. 
Their Majesties at the Lord Mayor's 
feast, 142, 143. Westminster play 
acted before them, 158. Queen's 
birthday fete, 191—193. King's 
opinion of his son's advisers, 247. 
His statue on Stephen's Green, 300 
note. His death, iii. 606. See, also, 
168 note. 282 note. 427. 437. 441. 
593. 

George III. i. 282, note. His birthplace, 
ii. 146 note. Residuary legatee of 
George II. iii. 609. Lady Irwin's 
congratulatory verses, 622. Letters 
from him to Mrs. Delan} r , vi. 236. 
247. 

George III. and Queen Charlotte, 
marriage of, iv. 5. note. Their coro- 
nation, 6, note. King's bounty to 



GlI.PI.N. 

bereaved Mrs. Molesworth, 17. A 
morning rencontre, 62. King and 
Queen at the King of Denmark's 
ball, 166. 168, 169. Their visits to 
Mrs. Delany and the Duchess of 
Portland, v. 246. 249. 251. 370—373. 
374—376. 380—382. 479—481. 496. 
The " Wit of Windsor," 322. Their 
visit to Portsmouth, 355 note. Their 
delicate bounty towards Mrs. Delany, 
vi. 273. 276. 279. 284. 286—288. 
Margaret Nicholson's attack on the 
King, 376—378. 392, 393. Admis- 
sion to a lady's chamber refused to 
the King, 421. 440. Mrs. Delany's 
bequests to King and Queen, 489. 
491. See, also, vi. 58. 69. 70, 71. 73. 
106. 107. 148. 149. 315. 316. 326. 
328. See Charlotte, Queen. 

George Prince of Wales, afterwards 
George IV. iv. 173 note. v. 479. 
480. 496. 497. vi. 106. 187. His 
alleged illegal nuptials, vi. 341. 
His noax on Mr. Lawrell, 342, 343. 

" George Barnwell," tragedy of, i. 285. 

Gerard, Sir Thomas, iv. 312 note. 

Germain, Lady Betty, i. 326. 334 note. 
544. Her wealth, 471. 472 notes. 

Germain, Sir John, i. 471 note. 

" Germanico." See Fabrici. 

Giardini, musician, iv. 260. 

Gibbs, Mr. i. 167. 172. 

Gibraltar, Elliott's defence of, vi. 77 
note. 

Gibson, Bishop, i. 226. 

Giffard, Sir Thomas, of Chillington, iv. 
312 note. 

Giffard, theatrical manager, i. 127. 

Gilford, Lady, iv. 175, note. 

Gifford, Lord, death of, iii. 156 note. 

Gilbert, Davies, historian of Cornwall, 
i. 108. note 2 . 

Gilbert, Dr. John, Archbishop of York, 
iv. 219, 226, 303, 453, notes. 

Gilbert, Emma, Lady Edgcumbe, 
daughter of above. See Edgcumbe ; 
Mount Edgcumbe. 

" Gil Bias," dramatized at Drury Lane, 
iii. 26 note. 

Gilford, Theodosia (Magill) Lady, iv. 9. 

Gill, Mr. iv. 36. 

Gillis, the painter, picture partly by, 
iii. 496 note. 

Gilpin, Bernard, iii. 214 note. 



IN 
Gilpin, 

Gilpin, Saurey, R.A. animal painter, 
vi. 32. 

Gilpin, Rev. William, author o( " Re- 
marks on Forest Scenery,* 1 iii. 214 
note. \i. 32, 33. Vocation o( his 
niece, 80. His lament over the fell- 
ing of some forest oaks, 87. The 
Rufus Oak. L93. His estimate o( 
CI a lies II. 245, 246. Works pub- 
lished by him, 306 not . His 
" Lives of the Reformers," 337. His 
remarks on the Loverian Museum, 
849, 350. Letters from him to Mrs. 
Delany, vi. 37. 78. si. 83. 86. '.'1. 
104. 245. 306. 339. 346. 349. 362. 
371. 

Giz/.i and Gizziello, opera singers, i. 

GlanviL Sir John, i. 258 note. 

Glanville, William, Esq. iv. 207 note. 
. Jenny, beautiful embroidery of, 
iii. 250.399. 

Mr. estate and clipped trees of, 
iii. 499. 

Glerawlev, William Annesley, 1st Vis- 
count, ii. 323 note. 

Gloucester, Bishops of. See Benson, 
Dr; Sydal, Dr : Warburton, Dr. 

Gloucester, Duchess of. See Mary, 
Princess. 

Gloucester, William Frederick, Duke of, 
v. 213 note. 

Gloucester, William Henry, Duke, and 
Maria (Countess Waldegrave) Du- 
chess of, iv. 464. Their marriage 
and questions raised upon it, 464 
note. 507. Bad health and difficul- 
ties, iv. 101. 320. 

Gloucestershire election, v. 179, 180. 
v, Dr. Luke, iv. 60 note. 
dfrey's cordial," v. 130. 

Godineau (or Gaudinau) ii. 273. 312. 
iii. 116. Her new-fashioned head- 
dress, 467. 

Godolphin, Francis Earl of, i. 79, 80, 
notes, ii. 137 note. iv. 238 noti . Bis 
munificence, v. »;7. Swindled, 66. 
71 — 73. See Leeds, Duke of. 
iphin, Lady, i. 587 note. 

Godschall, Lady, ii. 147. 

Godwin, Lady Cowper'a maid, as a 
travelling companion, iv. 66. Her 
intended sjxjuse, 125, 126. Her 
wedding, 138, 139. 



DEX, 547 

( io* 

(ioliien. A.rchdeacou, a ,% Methodist," 

iii. 523. 
Golding (or Qoldney) Mr. iii. 1 19. 450 

624. 
Goldsmith, Dr. iv. ;;i I. 
Goldsworthy, Colonel, vi. 337. 
Goldsworthy, Miss or Mrs. sub-govern- 
to the Princesses, v. 76. 374. 

380. 481. 5S5. vi. 86. 110. 148. 

303. 
Goodall, John, of Fowey, i. Iu8 note 9 . 
Goodenough, \)\: vi. 369. 
Gordon, Alexander, historian, iii. 584, 

noh . 
Gordon, Alexander and Cosmo, 2nd 

and 3rd Dukes, and Catherine, 

Duchess of, i. 513, note. 
Gordon, Alexander, 4th Duke of, v. 

215. 
Gordon, Duke of, and the three Lean- 
ties, i. 513. 
Gordon, Jane (Maxwell) Duchess of, 

"beautiful indeed," v. 215. 
Gordon, "Miss, v. 77. 
Gordon, Mrs. iii. 277. 282. 499. 
Gore, Hon. Arthur, afterwards Earl of 

Arran, iii. 599 note. 
Gore, Lady Catherine, iii. 351. 
Gore, Miss, iv. 9. 
Gore, Mr. i. 286. 287. 371. 372. iii. 

379. 428. 
Gore, Sir Arthur, i. 353. 3G0. 
Gore, Sir Ralph, Speaker of Irish 

House of Commons, i. 334. His 

death, 395. 403. 
Gore, Sir Ralph, afterwards Earl of 

Loss, iii. 351 note. 
Gorman, Irish physician, i. 405. 
Costing, Mr. banker, iv. 300. 
Gosling, Mrs. iii. 415. 
Gossett, the portrait-modeller, v. 225. 
Grough, Mrs. iii. 53. 

Goupy, the artist, i. 498 note. ii. 505. 
1 lower, John, Lord, i. 4. 
Grower, John, 1st Earl, i. 374. 466 

note. 536 note. 537. 557. ii. 198. 

336. 343. 366. 375. 399. iv. 208. 

2 13, 235, 250, 262, 324 notes. His 

marriages, i. 557 note. His death, 

iii. 261. 320. 
Gower, Granville, 2nd Earl, and 

Susannah (Stewart) Countess, iv. 

358 note. 
Gower, George Granville, afterwards 

2 2 



548 



INDEX. 



GOWER. 

3rd Earl, and subsequently Marquis 

of Stafford and Duke of Sutherland, 

vi. 110, note. 373. 
Grower, Jane Granville, Lady, i. 4. 

119. 
Gower, Jane (" Miss Lewson ") wife of 

Henry Hyde, 2nd Earl of Kochester 

and 4th Earl of Clarendon, i. 4. 
Gower, Lady Caroline, daughter of 

Granville, 2nd Earl, iv. 358 note. 
Gower, Lady Frances Leveson (" Miss 

Lewson ") wife of Lord John Sack- 

ville, i. 369. 374. 449. ii. 263. 
Gower, Lady Mary, daughter of John, 

1st Earl, iv. 213 note. 
Gower, Mary (Lady Harold) Dowager 

Countess, ii. 525. 526. iv. 235 note. 

436 note. 510 note. v. 5. 6. 31. 37. 

41. 45. 65. 112. 115. 116. 117. 120. 

166. 245. 246. 326. 369. 389. 397. 

423. 456. 459. 460. 510. 515. 546. 

vi. 29. 31. 113. 116. 120. 121. 143. 

228. 238. Age at which she discon- 
tinued riding on horseback, and why, 

v. 253, note. Burnt to death, vi. 251, 

252. Devotional verses and prayer 

written by her, 252, 253. Bequest 

intended for her by Mrs. Delany, 

484. Letters from her to Mrs. Delany, 

iv. 235. 249. 286. 296. 301. 310. 354. 

362. 377. 435. 439. 446. 448. 458. 475. 

482. 508. 522. 536. 546. 548. 557. 

562. 571. 591. v. 3. 6. 9. 17. 26. 

105. 150. 157. 161. 186. 230. 241. 

254. 255. 258. 263. 280. 288. 294. 

303. 320. 324. 330. 362. 402. 444. 

450. 466. 494. 522. 528. 555. 570. 

vi. 12. 44. 75. 89. 198. See Harold, 

Lady. 
Gower, Hon. John Leveson and Mrs. 

See Leveson Gower. 
Gower, Sir William Leveson, i. 4, note. 
Gower, Susannah (Stewart) Countess, 

iv. 358. 
Grafton, Henrv Fitzroy, 1st Duke of, 

i. 332 note. 439. iv. 2.12 note. 
Grafton, Charles Fitzroy, 2nd Duke of, 

i. 432. ii. 167. iii. 560. iv. 156 

note. 404 note. 
Grafton, Augustus Henry, 3rd Duke, 

iv. 206. v. 369 note. 
Grafton, Geo. 4th Duke of, v. 546 note. 
Grafton, Isabella, Duchess Dowager of, 

i. 332 note. ii. 272 note. 



Grandison. 
Grafton, Charlotte Maria (Waldegrave) 

afterwards Duchess of, v. 546. 
Grafton, Elizabeth (Wrottesley) 

Duchess of, iv. 250. 262. 
Grafton, William, and the rectory of 

Buckland : His rebus, i. 13 note. 
Graliam, inventor of the "Orrery," i. 

403 note. 
Graham, Dr. on medicinal use of 

spiders, ii. 274. 
Graham, Hon. Mary (2nd daughter of 

Lord Lansdowne) i. 115. 314. 317. 

324. 342. 343. 347 note. 370. 390. 

391. 
Graham, Jemima Elizabeth (Ashburn- 

ham) Marchioness of, death of, vi. 

396 note. 
Graham, Mr. iii. 453. 
Graham, Mrs. iii. 593. 
Graham, Sir Thomas, afterwards Lord 

Lynedoch, v. 78, note. 
Graham, William, Esq. of Platten, i. 

115 note. 224. 252. 253. 255. 314 

and note. 324. 329. 524. 525. 
Grahame, James, Esq. i. 513, note. 

iii. 368 note. 
Grammont Memoirs, Walpole's edi- 
tion of, iv. 487. 
" Gran." See Granville, Hon. Anne, 

daughter of Lord Lansdowne. 
Granada, taken and retaken, v. 464 

note. 
Granard, George Earl of, iii. 277. iv. 

329 note. 
Granby, Charles Marquis of, v. 172 

note. 175 note. 178. 192. 
Granby, John Marquis of, celebrated 

military commander, iv. 427, note. 

v. 287. 
Granby, Frances (Seymour) Mar- 
chioness of, iv. 427 note. 
Grandison, Frances Lady, i. 58. 

394 note. 434. 551. 559. 564. 570. 
Grandison, John Villiers, 5th Viscount 

and 1st Earl, i. 392 note. ii. 394, 

note. 396. 412. 416. 424. 545. 547. 

548. 563. 564. 605. iii. 32. 50. 94. 

113. 548. 549. 582 note. 
Grandison, Elizabeth Viscountess, 

wife of Aland John Mason, iii. 433. 

580. 582, note. 600. iv. 9. A " melan- 
choly visit" to her, iii. 548, 549. 

Her hoop of gold, iv. 325. 
Grandison, Geo. (Lord Villiers) after- 



IN 
Qbakoxb. 

wards Karl of, iii. 581. 582 \ote. Iv. 
406 note. 464. -s i Villiers, Lord. 
jGhranger, Kev. James, author of the 
Biographical History of England, v. 

Grant, Mr. i. 200. 

Giant, sir Archibald, why expelled 
from the House of Commons, i. 366. 

Grantham, Lady, iv. 436 note. 

Grantham, Lord, i. L28. L36 not*. 440. 
ii. • iv. 283. 424. 

Granville, Anne(Morley) Mary Gran- 
ville's grandmother, estate thrown 
away by, v. 325. 

Granville, Anne (Westcombe) Mary 

Granville's mother, i. 347. 527. ii. 
155. L65. 175. 1-7. 188. 196. 214. 
215. 218. 311. A skilful spinner, 
1-1", note. 275. Letter from John 
Wesley to her, i. 269. Her death, 
ii. 471, 472. Letter to her daughter 
Anne, ii. 311. Her tomb, 508. 

Granville, Ann, George, Lord Lans- 
downe'a sister. See Stanley, Lady. 

Granville, Hon. Anne (" Gran," " Ma- 
demoiselle Lansdown," " Violet," 
" Babes," " Lady Abbess") Lord 
Lansdowne's eldest daughter, i. 99. 
335. 341. 342. 347. 361. 370. 433. 
ii. 79. 80. 117. 128. 136. 140. 192. 
206. 234. 237. 259. 269. 270. 
343. 345. 370. 393. 420. 444. 446. 
447. 451. 461. 532. 534. 539. 556. 

. 576. 630. iii. 11. 63. 261. 293. 
306. 333. 348. 382. 406. 425. 428. 
473. 485. 495 note. 511. 557. iv. 
10. Pensioned, iii. 13. 21. Accident 
to her, 409. Incurably afflicted, iv. 
52. Her death, 123. "Letters from 
her : to Mrs. Dewes, ii. 95. To Mrs. 
Pendarves, ii. 110. 

Granville, Anne, Mary Granville's sis- 
ter ("Anna") afterwards Mrs. Dewes, 
i. B. 10. 16. 19. 31. 55 199 note. 
208 note. 211. 234. 235. 241, note. 
507 note. 527. 928. 529. 530. 533. 
539. 555. 556, note. 571. 577. ii. 
196. 204. 206. 209. 216. 218. 233. 

317. 331. iii. 44. 26!'. 
On Handel's Messiah, ii. 623, 624. 
Her death, 62a Her will, 633. 
Her daughter's marriage, iv. 312 
from her : to her 
brother, Bernard Granville, ii. 572. 



DEX. 549 

( iiiAN vna.i:. 
57a 577. 623. iii. 43. 483. To 
her mother, i. 688—596. To h< r 
sister, Mary Granville (Mrs. Pen- 
darves) i. 442—445. ii. L16. L51. 
To Catherine Collingwood, after- 
wards Lady Throckmorton, i, 559 
562. 571—573. 576. 596—598.603 
-605.615. ii. 54.57. 59.60. 61.74, 
76, L06. L29. To Lady Sarah Cow- 
l>er, ii. 389. 583. To Dr. Delany, ii. 
216. 

Granville, Bernard, Mary Granville's 
grandfather, i. 1. 2. 

Granville, Bernard, Mary Granville's 
I'm her, marriageof,i. 2. 3,4. 7,8. 12. 
13, 14. 20. 21, 22. Indignity put 
upon him by the Government, 9, 10. 
Notices of his death, 85 — 89. 

Granville, Bernard ( M Bunny ") Mary 
Granville's eldesl brother, i. 32.37. 
43 and note. 44. 47. 54. 88. 185. 222. 
265. 362. 384. 423. 433. 443. 446. 
449. 452. 454. 457. 458. 470. 473. 
475. 506. 508. 528. 529. 530. 533. 
534. 536, 537. 578. 579. 584. 587. 
589. 596. ii. 7. 25. 46. 83. 103. 163. 
174. 189. 196. 213. 24L 264. 266. 
281 note. 285. 290. 299. 331. 343. 
369 note. 399. 405. 437. 477. iii. 143. 
151. 185. 208. 332. 348. 349. 366. 
382. 405. 464. 486. 537. 550. iv. 1. 
10. 22 note. 56, 57. 65. 79. 85. 93. 
104. 132. 137. 171. 176. 266. 431. 
568. v. 99. 145. 147. His reason for 
leaving Cornwall,!. 222. His Handel 
collection, i. 223. vi. 236, 237. His 
autograph notes thereon, 249. Leaves 
oft' his wig, i. 364. 374. His family 
pride, 458, 459. His dislike of his 
sister's marriage with Dr. Delany, 
ii. 243 note. 255. 313 text and note. 
438. 574. Organ built by Father 
Smith, iii. 405. Handel's legacy to 
him, 541. 551, note. His intimacy 
with Lousseau, iv. 65. 71. 98. 114 
note. His "unaccountable behaviour," 
281. His death and self-composed 
epitaph, v. 139 — 141. Letters from 
him : to Miss Dewes, iv. 57. 106. To 
Rousseau, 97. 

Granville, Betty. See Granville, Eliza- 
beth ; and Granville, Hon. Elizabeth. 

Granville, Bcvil, Mary Granville's 
brother, i. 59. 71. 76,^77. 109. 146. 



550 INDEX. 

Granville. 

160. 163. 173. 183. 193. 200. 215. 

220. 221. 239. 281. 339. 359. 360. 

370. His widow, ii. 476 note. 
Granville, Sir Bevil, Mary Granville's 

great-grandfather, died with an earl- 
dom in his pocket, i. 1. Pillar erected 

to commemorate his death in battle, 

75. Honour paid to his memory by 

his university, 77 and note. See, also, 

vi. 288. 300. 
Granville, Sir Bevil, Mary Granville's 

uncle, post held by, and death of, i. 

2. 536 note. 
Granville, Lady Catherine, daughter of 

John Granville, 1st Earl of Bath, i. 

206 note. 
Granville, Denis, Dean of Durham, i. 

76 note. 
Granville, Elizabeth, or Betty (" Su- 

perba ") sister of Lord Lansdowne, i. 

16. 21. 22. 71. 114. 116. 
Granville, Hon. Elizabeth (" Daisy," 

"fair maid of honour") daughter of 

Lord Lansdowne, ii. 198. 200. 222. 

235. 244. 268. 270. 447. 451. 524. 

526. 529. 532. 534. 535. 536. 537. 

538. 539. 540. 541. 547. 576. 621. 

624. 630. 634. hi. 4. 11. 23. 63. 92. 

163. 244. 295. 429. 577. v. 194, 

note. 205. Lived in spite of human 

art, ii. 537 note. 
Granville, George, Lord Lansdowne, i. 

2. See Lansdowne, George Lord. 
Granville, Grace, Countess (" the 

Dragon ") i. 119. 178. 195. 422 note. 

423 note. 435, 436. 444. 491, 492. 

500. 536 note. 600. 601. 603. ii. 24. 

174. 195. 196. 199. 216. 218. 222. 

242. 294. 313. 343. Her death, ii. 

343 note. Letters from her to Dean 

Swift, i. 422. To Mary Granville 

(Mrs. Pendarves — Delany) i. 434. 

464. 490. 535. ii. 241. 
Granville, Hon. Grace, daughter of 

Lord Lansdowne, afterwards Hon. 

Mrs. Foley, i. 161. 564. 611. ii. 7. 

20. 79. See Foley, Hon. Mrs. 
Granville, John (of Calwicb) grief of 

at Mrs. Delany's death, vi. 489. His 

own early death, ibid, note- 
Cranville, John, Earl of Bath, i. 1. 
Granville, John Lord Carteret, Earl, 

Lord President of Council, ii. 452. 

hi. 1 note. 40. 339. 348. 368. 382. 



Granville. 
401. 411 note. 481. 495. iv. 2. 94 
note. 175 note. 265 note. 306 note. 
499 note. 342 note. Letter from 
him to Mrs. Delany, iii. 42. See 
Carteret, John Lord. 

Granville, Hon. Mary, 2nd daughter of 
Lord Lansdowne. See Graham, Mrs. 

Granviile, Mary (" Aspasia," " Penny") 
successively Mrs. Pendarves and Mrs. 
Delany, date and place of birth of, i. 
1. Her ancestry, 1, 2. Her govern- 
ess, schoolfellows, and early com- 
panions, 2 — 4. Her first sight of 
Handel, 5. Anecdote connected 
therewith, 6. Discipline to which her 
aunt subjected her, 8. Her emo- 
tions on the occasion of her father's 
arrest, 9, 10. Cause of Miss Tellier's 
jealousy of her, 11. Amende subse- 
quently made by Miss T. 12. Her 
regret at leaving the "fine world," 
ibid. Her employment in the coun- 
try, 13. Her sketch of Parson Tooker 
(" Tranio ") 13, 14. Her introduction 
to Mr. Twyford ("Roberto") 14. 
Contracts a friendship with Miss 
Kirkham (" Sappho ") afterwards 
Mrs. John Chapone, 15, 16. Her 
description of "The Farm," 17, 18. 
Dawning of Mr. Twyford's love for 
her, 18. Obstacles in the way of their 
union, 19. Her reception by her uncle, 
Lord Lansdowne, 20, 21. Excites the 
jealousy of her aunts, 22. Introduced 
to Mr. Pendarves ("Gromio") ibid. 
Her behaviour on discovering his 
liking for her, 23, 24. Her acceptance 
of his hand forced upon her, 26 — 28. 
Why she consented to sacrifice her- 
self, 28, 29. Her marriage and its 
surroundings, 29, 30. Its date, 49 
note. Hears of Mr. Twyford's me- 
lancholy end, 30, 31. Prepares to ac- 
company her husband home, 31, 32. 
The sort of happiness wished for her 
by her aunt, 32, 33. Her journey 
into Cornwall, 33, 34. Her por- 
traiture of her husband, 34, 35. His 
behaviour towards her, 35 and note. 
Her feelings on arriving at Eoscrow 
(" Averno ") 35, 36. Her visit to 
Mr. Basset's : source of her dis- 
quietude there, 38 — 40. Her re- 
solve consequent on Mr. Basset's 



INDI 

< ii; \n\ 11.; r. 
oouduct towards her, 50. Introduced 
bo Mr. Newman («• Carlo") 51. Ber 
alarm at his behaviour, 52, 53. 
Testifies to her husband's affection 
tor her, 55. Gratified by a visit 
from her parents and sister, 55, 56, 
Called to London by her husband, 
56, ">7. Her progress on the spin- 
net ; her music master, 58. London 
ace chosen by her husband, 61. 
Her description of her husband's sis- 
tor, ibid. Surveillance to which she 
was subjected, 62 and note. Her pe- 
cuniary distresses, 62, 63. Trials 
imposed upon her by her husband's 
habits and infirmities, 63. Her 
acquaintanceship with Lady Pen- 
darvisand Bliss 11 — , 64. Her disco- 
rery on her last visit to Miss H — , 
68. A concert on the river, Gi) — 71. 
Her account of Mrs. Robinson (Lady 
Peterborough) 72 — 74. On the cha- 
racters of her aunts Lady Lansdowno 
and Lady Stanley, 81—83. Con- 
duct of If. Fabrici (" Germanico") 
towards her, 83, 84. Visits her pa- 
rents ; loses her father, 85. Letters 
of condolence from Lord Lansdowne 
and Sir J. Stanley, 86, 87. Goes 
with her husband to Windsor, 89. 
Her intercourse with Lady Walsing- 
ham (" Stella") 89, 90. Waylaid 
by M. Fabrici, 90, 91. Why the 
Windsor lodging was given up, 92. 
Insult offered to her by Lord Clare 
(" Clario ") 93—96. On the cos- 
tumes and display at Lady Wal pole's 
wedding, 96, 97. Commencement 
of her acquaintance with Lord Balti- 
more (" Herminius") 105, 106. 
Her attachment to Lady Sunderland 
(" Placidia ") 107. Death of Mr. 
Pendarves, 107, 108. Her position 
on that event, 109. Consequences of 
her youngest brother's conduct, 109, 
110. Lord Baltimore's growing at- 
tachment for her, 110. 112. 130— 
134. Declines the addresses of Henry 
Monck (" Henricus") 111. 130. Her 
indifference with regard to money, 
117. <>n the aspect of London, 119. 
Her nicety in small matters, 153 
note. Her description of the coronation 
of George 11. 137—139. Her skill in 



(IHANVILI.K. 

spinning, L40 note. At the Lord 
Mayor's feast i < > tin- King and Queen, 

II I- —143. Her interview with a. 

finical gentleman 156. Description 
of a feather tippet made by her, L59 
note. Her lament for the Italian 
opera, L60. Serio-comic remarks 
on matrimony, L6 I. 204. Her tra- 
velling mishaps, 17<">. Invited to 
officiate as Lady Mayoress, 179. 
Dealing with the ** devUl's books," 
180. Her verses on a lock of hair, 
190. Complimented by Queen Ca- 
roline, 191. Her aptness in versifi- 
cation, 199. Anxieties resulting 
from Lord Baltimore's conduct, 233. 
234. 236. 238. 240. 242. A cata- 
logue of Lovers, 237. In a house of 
her own, 239. End of Lord Balti- 
more's Love-making; its sequel, 241. 
243. Loses her Aunt [Stanley, ibid. 
Her Richmond residence with Mrs. 
Donellan, 241, 242. Her account of 
the case of Miss Andrews, 2GG — 269. 
Hogarth her instructor, 283. Her 
Visit to Ireland, 286—295. Com- 
mencement of her acquaintance with 
Dr. Delany (" Dessario ") 296. Her 
influence over the second Viscount 
Weymouth, 297—299. Irish poplin 
introduced by her, 334 note. Her 
song of "Hop'd she" 394. Her 
paintings and shell-work at Del- 
ville, 398. Kote on her corres] ond- 
ence with Swift, 413. Her notions 
of oratorios and of South 's sermons, 
450, 451. How she received Mr. 
Prideaux's courtship, 456, 457. Her 
collection of shells and remarks 
thereon, 484, 485. Duchess of 
Portland's opinion of her, 512, 513. 
Similarity of their tastes, 514 note. 
Her shell-work at Northend, 570. 
Her painting, 590. Her esteem for 
Dean Swift, 501. Her love for 
Northend, 612. ii. 4. 149. Ber 
sentiments regarding her sister's 
intended husband, ii. 81. 83. 92. 
Her visit to some of the " Lions " of 
London, 82. Her character as drawn 
by Mrs. Donellan, J7(i— 180. Her 
objection to tragedy, L98. On Gar- 
rick's acting, 202. On the Duchess 
of Queensberry, 205. Character of 



552 



INDEX. 



Granville. 
Dr. Delany's proposal of marriage, 
209. Precise date of their marriage, 
218. 361 note. Editor's reflections 
on the event, 218. At " Troglodyte 
House," 225. An accident, 246. Her 
relations with her brother after her 
marriage with Dr. Delany, 243 note. 
255. 313. Joint work of herself and 
sister at Wellesbourne, 257, 258. Her 
cures for the ague, 273. Composes an 
oratorio libretto, 280. Her descrip- 
tion of DelvhTe, 314—316. Her 
annoyances under Sir John Stanley's 
will, 333. Her illness in 1746, 438. 
Her hoax on the Duchess of Port- 
land, 453, 454. Circumstances un- 
der which she painted an inn sign, 
457. Loses her mother, 471, 472. 
Her pen and ink caricature of her- 
self, contrasted with her real self, 
504. Her lament for Goupy, the 
artist, 505. Her visit to her mother's 
tomb, 508. Her drawing of an ad- 
venture of Dr. Shaw, 530, 531. 
Shell lustres made by her for the 
Duchess of Portland, 533. On pro- 
vision for daughters, 575 and note. 
Her quilts, 581. On Lady Luxbo- 
rough, 586. 595. On Miss Leonar- 
gan, 588. Writes a dedication to 
herself, 596. On " Clarissa Har- 
lowe," 598. 603. 614. Her " sugar- 
plum knotting" and ornamental 
needlework, 607 note. Cheated by 
her husband in a deer matter, iii. 15. 
Her mourning for the Prince of 
Wales, 34. Her menagerie, 39. In- 
dignant at Orrery's remarks on Swift, 
64, 65. On her causes for happi- 
ness, 70. On Young's " Night 
Thoughts," 92. Her feelings about 
the Tennison suit, 141. 147. 168, 
169. 489. Object of her proposed 
lottery, 156. Her objection to dedi- 
cations to herself, 171. 174. Her 
lilliputian pack of cards, 179. On 
advantage of drawing over music as 
a recreation, 207. Invents a new 
kind of needlework, 258 note. Her 
worsted chenilles, 306. Her letter 
of advice to Lord Titchfield, 340. 
Her husband's pen and ink por- 
trait of her, 387. Remarks on 
Shakespeare, iii. 406. iv. 489. Her 



Granville. 
prize in the lottery, iii. 457. Her 
visit to the Giant's Causeway, 516. 
On stage plays, 541. Her MS. ro- 
mance, 580. Loses her sister, 629. 
Complains of the publication of her 
letters, iv. 77. 166. Her opinion of 
Rousseau, 80. Mistakes regarding 
her relations with Rousseau, 98. 
Death of Dr. Delany, 141—144. 
I Her description of Mr. Bateman's 
house and knick-knacks, 176 — 178. 
Her translation of Hudson's " Flora 
Anglica," 243. Property charged 
with her jointure, 300. A mistake 
of Miss Burney's, 407. Burke's en- 
comium on her, v. 12. Her estimate 
of Chesterfield's letters, 27—29. 32. 
Rules of conduct written by her for 
a young lady, 55 — 57. On the 
sphere of woman, 103. On the 
evils of " straight lacing," 160. On 
the Babel-oman head-dresses, 189. 
197. 200. 524. On the Duchess of 
Kingston, 211. Her wonderful " Her- 
bal" and introductory verses there- 
to, 215. 443, 444. Her reflections 
on her 76th birthday, 216. Her 
portrait modelled in wax by stealth, 
225. 232 note. Her nickname for 
Lady Gower, 245. Her Essay on 
Propriety, 308 — 311. Reflections on 
Lord Chatham's death, 355, 356. 
Hannah More's poetical estimate of 
her, 361. Her dread of Charles Fox, 
366. Graciousness of George III. 
and Queen to her, 373. 496. Visits 
to the King and Queen, 377—380. 
470, 1. 473, 4. On the efficacy of 
the herb " cleavers " or goose-grass, 
425. Mrs. Walsingham's verses to 
her on her 80th birthday, 527. Her 
estimate of Queen Charlotte, 579. 
Gifts and souvenirs from the King 
and Queen, v. 495, 496. vi. 76. 149. 
216. 221. Visits of the royal pair to 
her, vi. 58. 147. 148, 149. 309. 
445. 472. 473. Her visits to them, 
vi. 70, 71. 114. 149, 150. 308, 309. 
451, 452. 455. Her " regal flower," vi. 
8. Her trays, 9. Words with which 
she accompanied a specimen gift 
of her flower-cutting to the Queen, 
13. Her handwriting at eighty-two, 
24 note. Her unselfishness, 28. 






[KDE 

Granvh i ! . 
Her visit to Lord Mansfield's, 40. 
Her u scamper after the hounds," 67, 
,: ^. Her verses on the turning out 
of the stag, 72, 73. Gives the Queen 
■ lesson in spinning, 7-">. Hot notes 
ami verses on a spinning-wheel sent 
to the Queen, 80, 81. Progress of 
her M Flora," 91, 95. Opinions o( 
eminent artists and botanists on her 
accuracy ami skill, 95. Her modus 
operandi, 97. Her verses on finding 
herself no longer able to pursue her 
Bower work, 98. The lost dormouse, 
BO. Miss Barney's misstatements, 
125—128, >-■ D'Arblay.] On the 
Wesleys, 17"'. Her writing without 
eyesight, 187, Riddle ami verses by 
her on her 85th year, 211. Her 
comments on M rs. Siddons 1 readings, 
255. Death of her friend the Du- 
chess of Portland, 262, 263. Misstate- 
ments regarding herself relative t.> 
t lie Duchess of Portland's will, 271, 
272. Requests to her by the Duchess, 
272. Considerate kindnesses of the 
King and Queen towards her, 273. 
276, 279. 2^4. 286—288. 292. Her 
estimate in 1785-6 of Miss Burney, 
279. 365. Mrs. Ag new' s recollections 
of her and Miss Burney, 316—320. 
Her motives in recommending Miss 
Burney to the Queen, 361. Her 
mode of life in her Windsor retreat, 
364, 865. Her portrait of Lady 
Joanna Thornhill, 375. Her report 
of the King's conduct after Margaret 
Nicholson's attack on him, 392,' 393. 
Walpole's eulogium on her flower 
mosaics, 417. Signs of failing health, 
435, 436, 439. 442. Portraiture of 
her at the age of eighty-seven, 454. 
Anecdote indicative of Queen Char- 
lotte's great affection for her, 459, 
460. Pier visit to Norburv Park, 
472. Makes " Queen Charlotte's 
orange pudding," Hud. Her last ill- 
177. False hopes engendered, 
Her last moments, 480. Her 
place of burial and epitaph, 481. 
Closing reflections, 482, Her will 
and codicils, 483 — 490. Memorial 
window designed by her, 491. Let- 
ters of old friends testifying to her 
worth, 492 — 496. Opie's portraits 



X. 553 

GllANVlI.LK. 

o[ her. 490, 497. Her faithful at- 
tendant proi ided for, 497, 498. IV- 
Boendants of her sister, 498. List of 

her paintings, 498- -501. Memo- 
randa o[' her more important pieces 
of needlework, 501— 606. Her paint- 
ings, ii. 182. 260, 261. 265.268.869. 
375. in. C2. L30. 205. 211. Extracts 
from her diary, ri. 302. 305. 810. 315. 
326. 328. 340. 341. Autobiographi- 
cal letters addressed by her to Mar- 
garet Duchess of Tort land, l. — iv, i. 
7 — 25. v, vi, 26 — 40. vn, vin, 50 
—57. ix, 60—69. x, 81—86. xi, 
xii, 89—96. xm, xiv, 105—112. 
xv, 130 — 134. xvi, 239 — 242. 
xvn, 295—299. xvm, 411—413. 

Letters from her : to her sister, 
Ann Granville, afterwards Mrs. 
Dewes, i. 57—59. 69—72. 79 
—81. 96—105. 117. 119—126. 128. 
134—220. 223—234. 236—238. 250 
—260. 263—266. 271—282. 282— 
285. 286—295. 304—307. 308—310. 
312—319. 324—337. 339—357. 360 
—374. 377—397. 398—404. 405— 
410. 423—429. 430—433. 436—438. 
445—4(53. 464—467. 469—479. 484 
—490. 498—501. 506—508. 555— 
558. 566—568. 578—580. 582— 
588. ii. 4. 13. 17—40. 42—49. 70. 
78—83. To Mrs. Dewes, ii. 97. 101. 
135—140. 146—151. 156. 165. 180 
—185. 189. 193. 197—201. 203—209. 
219. 224—230. 233—239. 242—246. 
249—260. 261—311. 312—326. 329 
—347. 359—372. 374—380. 385. 390 
—403. 406—428. 428—437. 440— 
471. 472—486.489—503. 506—556. 
558—564. 565—569. 571. 574. 580 
—583. 585—592. 594—622. 625— 
628. 631—635. iii. 1. 4. 7. 10—34. 
36. 40. 48—100. 102—143. 145— 
195. 196—214. 216—255. 256—323. 
324. 325. 327—336. 338. 344—358. 
361—371. 378—386. 393—401. 402 
—420. 422. 424. 426—430. 432. 434 
—457. 459—463. 464—467. 469— 
495. 497. 501—549. 550—599. 603 
—608. 610—614. 617—628. To her 
mother, Mrs. Anne Granville, i. 530. 
533. ii. 302. 357. 428. To her 
brother, Bernard Granville, i 337. 
iii. 3. 7. 34. 39. 42. 359. 360. 420. 



554 



INDEX 



Granville. 
495. 496. iv. 17. 20. 24. 64. 85. 
383. 403. 575. v. 14. 20. 27. 32. 
38. 49. 57. 74. 80. 87. 92. 100. 102. 
106. 108. 116. 118. 119. 138. To 
her nephew, Court Dewes, iv. 39. vi. 

124. To her nephew, Rev. John 
Dewes, afterwards Granville, iv. 100. 

125. 401. 423. 425. 453. 492. 503. 
518. 528. 537. 591. v. 100. 104. 
124. 128. 146. 228. 281. 300. 363. 
502. vi. 3. 28. 300. To Mrs. John 
Dewes Granville, v. 352. 403. vi. 
9. 212. 307. 449. 474. To her niece, 
Mary Dewes, afterwards Mrs. Port, 
iii. 600. 609. 615. iv. 7. 18. 21. 24. 
25. 40. 41. 43. 80. 83. 104. 127. 129. 
130. 149—173. 175—183. 187. 193. 
196. 204. 205. 214. 215. 237. 240. 
244. 246. 248. 255. 257. 270. 274. 
279. 282. 288. 292. 294. To same, 
after her marriage with Mr. Port, iv. 
321. 323. 328. 363. 366. 370. 378. 
380. 385. 390. 394. 398. 406. 409. 
412. 417. 420. 421. 455. 465. 467. 
483. 487. 490. 497. 505. 521. 530. 
552. 554. 556. 560. 566. 579. 582. 
586. 593. 595. v. 1. 10. 23. 40. 45. 

47. 64. 68. 78. 86. 95. 98. 109. 110. 
112. 113. 12 L. 133. 134. 148. 152. 
154. 160. 163. 167. 172. 188. 191. 
193. 196. 199. 203. 205. 206. 209. 
212. 216. 217. 221. 225. 235. 246. 
316. 318. 325. 327. 334. 339. 341. 
352. 354. 364. 370. 376. 404. 406. 
412. 414. 417. 421. 425. 431. 454. 
462. 476. 497. 504. 508. 510. 513. 
515. 517. 519. 521. 524. 530. 552. 
554. 557. 558. 560. 569. 571. 575. 
580. vi. 1. 5. 8. 15. 17. 21. 57. 88. 

324. 473. To Lady Andover, iv. 46. 

48. 51. 59. 67. 69. 75. 88. 101. 108 
112. 115. 118. 147. 191. 195. 198. 
199. 209. 220. 228. 272. 304. 316. 

325. 330. 334. 336. 341. 351. 429. 
440. 447. 480. 511. 524. 526. 541. 
v. 53. 70. 219. 223. 250. 259. 283. 
372. 469. To Catherine Colling- 
wood, afterwards Lady Throgmor- 
ton, i. 573. 612. 613. 615. 619. 620. 
ii. 1. 11. 40. 52. 65. 133. To Hon. 
Mary Hamilton, afterwards Mrs. 
Dickenson, v. 503. 574. 583. 584. 
585. vi. 3. 4. 6. 9. 14. 21. 22. 32. 
67. 80. 81. 83. 85. 86. 90. 93. 129. 



Green. 
192. 193. 197. 199. 209. 210. 213. 
214. 222. 225. 226. 243. 245.-259. 
356. 434. To Mrs. Francis Hamil- 
ton, v. 577. vi. 122. 147. 218. 253. 
286. 308. 363. 391. 427. 435. 437. 
450. 454. 471. To her great-niece, 
Miss Port, iv. 457. vi. 24 (headed 
in error Mrs. Port) 26. 27. 30. 34. 
36. 39. 49. 68. 73. 92. 98. 99. 106. 
109. 114. 132. To the Duchess of 
Portland, ii. 201. 504. iii. 47. To 
Mrs. Sandford (Sally Chapone) vi. 
260. To her godson, Daniel Sand- 
ford, vi. 405. 436. 438. 445. 452. 
463. 476. To Dean Swift, i, 414. 
415. 420. 492. 517. 538. 549. 553. 
569. To the Marquis of Titchfield, 
iii. 340. To Mrs. or Miss Viney, v. 
90. 289. 481. 566. To Edward 
Winnington, vi. 45. To Horace Wal- 
pole, vi. 416. 

Granville, Miss. See Granville, Anne, 
daughter of Lord Lansdowne. 

Granville, Mrs. De la Bere, letter to 
Mrs. Viney from, vi. 441. 

Granville, Robert, 2nd Earl, cruel 
" mad trick " of, ii. 268 note. iv. 
397. His death, v. 194. 

Granville, Sir Robert, iv. 158. 

Granville, Sophia (Fermor) Countess. 
See Fermor, Lady Sophia. 

" Granville blood," characteristic of the, 
iii. 195. iv. 137, 138. 

Grasse, Count De, taken prisoner, vi. 
88 note. 

Grattan, Mr. ii. 259. 

G rattan and Flood's quarrel, Mr. Ha- 
milton's witticism on, vi. 169. 

Gravenor, William, and St. Albyn, iv. 
33 

Graves, Miss, i. 266. 562. 567. 589. 
593. 615. ii. 494. 

Graves, Rev. Richard, iv. 561. 

Gray, Lady Die, i. 439. 

Gray, Thomas, the poet, Mason's Me- 
moirs of, v. 109. 125. 144. 

Greathead, Lady Mary, iv. 111. 

Green, Counsellor, ii. 335. 340. 460. 
463. 464. 465. iii. 7. 29. 62. 108. 
167. 197. 

Green, Mrs. (Dr. Delany's niece) ii. 
380. 392. 398. 401. 407. 413. 424. 
426. 452. 463. 464. Her death, 499 
note. See Delany, Miss. 



(iKKKNF. 

ie, Dr. i. 617. 
Greene, Mrs. iii. 370. I<-1. ' ; <>7. 
Greenville, Richard, Esq. i. 604. 806 

note. 
Greenwich Hospital, Lords' resolution 

OO, v. 457 note. 

Gregory, Dr. of Christchurch, Oxon, iii. 

570. 
Qrenville, Charlotte, afterwards Lady 

W. W. Wynn, iv. 397. 
Qrenville. Hon. George, i. 467 note. 



v. 



iv. 397. v. 331. 468 nofc. 

Qrenville, Mr. and Mrs. II. vi. 238. 

Qrenville, Thomas, son of George, 
468. 

Qreeham, Sir Thomas, ii. 2. 3. 

Qreville, Or. i. 179. 186. 329. 

Qreville, George Lord, afterwards Earl 
of Warwick, iv. 112. 

Qreville, Lady Anne, vi. 190. 

Qreville, Mrs! i. 196. 199. 220. ii. 25. 
31. 

Grevilles, the, iv. 346 notes 4 , 5 . 

Grey, Jemima, Marchioness, iv. 436. 
^vi. 3 94, 

Grey, Lady Harriet, afterwards Coun- 
tess of Stamford, iv. 108. See 
Stamford, Harriet Countess of. 

Grey, Lady Harriet, daughter of Lady 
Stamford. See Chetwode, Lady. 

Grey, Lady Louisa, vi. 19. 

Grey, Lord, son of Lady Stamford, vi. 
333. 442. 3q I 

Grey, Mrs. worked pictures of, iii. 598. 

(irey, Rev. Anchitel, v. 92 note. 

Grey, Sir James, v. 333. 

Grey de Puithin, Barony of, v. 171, note. 

Grierson, Mrs. Constantia, a learned 
lady, i. 301, 302. ii. 576. 

Griffith, Mr. iv. B7. 

Griffiths, Mrs. i. 264. 370. 374. ii. 92. 

Griffiths family, ii. 268. 

Grimaldi, Nicolini. See Xicolini. 

Grimstone, Miss, v. 330. 

Groat, Mr. 428, 429. 

" Gromio." See Pendarves, Alexander. 

Grosvenor, Mr. and Mrs. iv. 214. 

Grosvenor, Sir Richard, 1st Earl, i. 
287. iii. 497. iv. 214 note. His 
action against the Duke of Cumber- 
land, 292. 

Grovesmith, Mr. iii. 316. 

Guadagni, " Stabat Mater" of, iii. 81. 

Guering, Colonel, iii. 346. 



INDEX. 555 

. "Ha Ha." 

Guernsey, Beneage, Lord, afterwards 

3rd Karl o( .\\ lesford, ii. 518. 534. 
Guernsey, Beneage, Lord, afterwards 

5th Earl of Aylesford, vi. 847. 
Guido'a u Boy and Lamb," iii. 495. 

•197. 
Guilford, Elizabeth (Dowager Lady 

Lewisham) Countess of, iv. 6. 14. 

Her death, 92. 
Guilford, Francis North, 3rd Baron 

and 1st Earl of, ii. 200 note. iii. 

336. 406. iv. 3. 5 note. 6, note. 318. 

333, note. 575. v. 81. 260. 276. 354. 

364. 414. 434. 476. 543. 565. vi. 

2. 55. 108. 111. 115. 133. 300. 319. 

341. 371. His curious reception at 

Lord Le Despencer's, 549, 550. 

False rumour of his death, 466. 

Mrs. Delany's bequest, 489. Let- 
ters from him to Mrs. Delany, iv. 

6. v. 299. 305. 383. 490. 537. 518. 

vi. 42. 59. 291. 311. 313. 327. 329. 

338. 376. To Court Dewes, vi. 

303. 
Guilford, Frederick, Lord North, 2nd 

Earl of. See North, Frederick Lord. 
Guilford, Lord, i. 267. 
Guiscard, the assassin, i. 5. 
Guise, Sir John and Lady, i. 219 and 

note. 
Guisnes, M. de, iv. 347. 498. 504. 
Gumlev, Deputy Commissary-General, 

i. 189 note. 190. 
Gunning, John, Esq. iii. 584 note. 
Gunning, Maria. See Coventry, Maria 

Countess of. 
Gunning, Miss, vi. 157. 161. 187. 189. 

205. 206. 
Gunnings, the beautiful, ii. 553. iv. 

478 note. v. 451 note. 
Gurney, Mr. and Mrs. i. 207. 
Gustavus Adolphus, history of, iii. 

571. 
Guy of Warwick and the giant Cole- 
brand, i. 75. 
" Guyamorc." See Baltimore, Lord. 
Gwinnets, the, ii. 31. 39. 46. 
Gwyn, Mrs. ii. 284. 296 note. 



H , Miss, and her indiscretions, i. 

64 — 69. Expletive ascribed to her, 

69 note. 
" Ha Ha" (probably Hon. Henry Her- 

vey) i. 146. 179. 181. 186. 188. 189. 



556 



INDEX. 



Haokman. 

191. 192. 193. 195. 196. 197. 201. 

217. See Hevvey, Hon. Henry. 
Hackman, Rev. Mr. Miss Reay's mur- 
derer, v. 423. 
Hales, Dr. Stephen, rector of Tedding- 

ton, iii. 353. 
Hales, Sir Thomas. Bart. i. 129 note. 
Halifax, George Montague, Earl of, iv. 

491 note. 
Halifax, George Montague Dunk, Earl 

of, iii. 196. 285. iv. 7. 10. 63, note. 

323. 339. Dead, 352 note. His 

daughters, 10 note. 
Halifax, William, Marquis of, i. 217 

note. 543 note. 
Hall, John, Esq. and his daughter 

Hester, iv. 564 note. 
Hall, Kev. Mr. of " singular character," 

iii. 505. 
Halliday, Lady Jane (Tollemache) v. 

76. 236. 
Halsey, Miss, afterwards Countess of 

Cobham, Mary Granville's school- 
fellow, i. 2. 
Halsewell East Indiaman, loss of the, 

vi. 334. 
Ham House, Surrey, description of, i. 

479. 
Hambden, Mr. ii. 27. 
Hamilton, William, 2nd Duke of, i. 

426 note. 
Hamilton, James, 4th Duke of, death 

of, iii. 478. 
Hamilton, James, 5th Duke of, i. 609. 

His three wives, ibid. note™. His mar- 
riage with the rich Miss Spencer, 613. 

iii. 60 note. 291 note.. 
Hamilton, Elizabeth, Duchess Dowager 

of (" the beautiful Gunning ") iv. 478. 

v. 451. 
Hamilton, Miss Anne, ii. 499. 545. 571. 

iii. 506. vi. 150. 
Hamilton, Dr. Archibald, Bishop of 

Killala, i. 357. 
Hamilton, Hon. and Rev. Archibald, iii. 

532 note. 
Hamilton, Lord Archibald, iv. 110 

note. 
Hamilton, Lady Archibald, ii. 29. 368. 
Hamilton, Captain, iv. 123. 487. 
Hamilton, Mrs. (Dorothy Forth) ii. 460. 

463. 499. 545. 547. 552. 566. 592 

593. 599. 604. 610. 611. 620. 625. 

631. 632. v. 380. 499. 502. 581. 



Hamilton. 

Her death, 566. Letter from her to 

Mrs. Delany, v. 499. 
Hamilton, Mr. Edward, iv. 86. vi. 

123. 309. 

Hamilton, Elizabeth and Jane, daugh- 
ters of Lord Archibald Hamilton, ii. 

245. note 2 . - 
Hamilton, Hon. and Rev. Francis and 

Lady, i. 319 note. 335. 339. 
Hamilton, Lady Frances, i. 50. 
Hamilton, Mrs. F. ii. 418. iii. 8. 16. 

83. 91. 98. 121. 181. 278. 559. 
Hamilton, Rev. Frederick, vi. 431. 
Hamilton, Mr. and Mrs. Gustavus, iii. 

279. 601. iv. 26. 27. 
Hamilton, Henry, iii. 419. 548. 571. 

vi. 122. 
Hamilton, Hon. Henry, iii. 281 note. 

419 note. iv. 22. vi. 150. 
Hamilton, Mrs. H. iii. 181. iv. 18. 
Hamilton, Lady Harriot (or Henrietta) 

first wife of John, 5th Earl of 

Orrery, i. 161. 400 note. 486 note. 
Hamilton, Margaret, 2nd wife of John, 

5th Earl of Orrery, i. 403 note. 
Hamilton, Lady Mary. See Colley, 

Lady Mary. 
Hamilton, James, iv. 41. 
Hamilton, Hon. John James, afterwards 

9th Earl and 1st Marquis of Aber- 

corn, witticism of, vi. 169. 
Hamilton, John, Esq. iii. 468, note. 
Hamilton, Miss, iv. 26. v. 580. 
Hamilton, Miss (Mrs. Jocelyn) iii. 

184. 
Hamilton, Hon. Miss Mary, Maid of 

Honour to Queen Caroline, after- 
wards Mrs. Dickenson of Toxall, v. 

511. 575. 580. vi. 36. 110. 144. 224. 

250. Her marriage, 259, 260. 275. 

Letter from her to the Duchess of 

Portland, vi. 184. Extracts from 

her Diary, vi. 151—192. 193—196. 

197. 199—204. 205, 206. Mrs. De- 

lany's bequest to her, 489. 
Hamilton, Lieutenant, iii. 506. iv. 26. 
Hamilton, Mr. son of Lord Abercorn, i. 

508. 
Hamilton, Mr. and Mrs. i. 291. 294. 

309. 318. 327. 334. 340. 389. 395. 

399. 400. 401. 403. ii. 330. 347. 

380. 396. 399. 411. 415. 461. 463. 

479. 497. 545. 546. 551. 559. 560. 

561. 562. 567. 



i\ni 
Hamilton. 

Hamilton. Mrs. iii. II. 54. 169. L84. 
!. iv.41.64. 

Hamilton, Rev. Mr. o( Monaghan, iv. 
236, note. 

Hamilton, Hon. Saekville, iii. 281. 532 
note. 548, iv. 26. 245. 7.501. 505. 

Hamilton, Right Hon. Sir William, vi. 
L61. L86. 1-7. L90. L95. 199. 2(XX 
203, 206. 226. 43L 

Harameraley, Mr. iii. 270, 1ST. 488. 
491. 494. iv. 127. 128. 147. 14i>. 
L60. 

Hammond, Miss, iv. 301. 

Hammond the poet and his " Delia," i. 
L06 note, His Elegies, ii. 203. His 
hopeless passion. 204. iv. 564. 

Hammond, Mr. i. 609. 

Hampton Court, dloucestershire, ii. 
L02, not*. 

Hancock, Mr. and Mrs. (late Miss 
Y. Bey) i. 324. 

Hancock, Robert, Esq. iv. 87. 

Handcock, Miss, ii. 415.503. iii. 104. 

Handel, George Frederick, i. 5. G and 
. 57 note. 129. 144. 158. 172 
note. 184 note. 189. 223. 229. 312. 
444. 445. 446. 449 note. 450. 454. 
457. 463. 463 notes. 466. 472. 530. 
532. 533. 534. 578 note 3 . 579. 579 
». 587. 594. ii. 24. 38 note. 61. 
140. 222. 254. 262. 267. 271. 280. 
290. 451. 556 note. 620. 623. 624. 
629. 630. iii. 334 note. 383. 405 
58. iv. 136. 568 note. v. 91. 
486. 525. vi. 114. 309. Failure of 
his light, iii. 61. Sensation on his 
public appearance totally blind, 177. 
His death and will, 549, 550. Me- 
moirs published, 595. Handel com- 
memorations in Westminster Abbey, 
vi. 215. 257.441. Royal correspond- 
ence relating to the Granville collec- 
tion of his compositions, 235 — 237. 
List of same, 248, 249. 

Hanmer, Mr. i. 454. 457. 580. 

Hanmer, Lady Catherine, i. 454. 457. 
ii. 27. 2'.). 148. 165. 208. 446. 

Hanmer, Sir Thomas, career, marriages, 
&c. of, i. 331 note 3 . ii. 270. 272. 277. 
410. 413. 424. 

Harbin, Mr. i. 425. ii. 30. 97. iii. 
449. 

Harborough, Earls of, defects of the, iv. 
95. 100. 



:x. 



►57 



Habbop. 

Hare, Sir Thomas, iii. 467. 

Harcourt, Simon, 1st Earl of, i. 546, 

547,546 note. His singular death, 

v. 320. 
Harcourt, George Simon, Lord Nune- 

ham, 2nd Karl of, iv. 266. \. 320. 

392. vi. 100. 254. 309. His grounds 

at Num-ham, L00, note, 101. 

Harcourt, Elizabeth (Venables) Coun- 
tess of, vi. 232. 254. 

Harcourt, Miss, i. 546. 

Harding, George, afterwards Jnd'j;e, v. 

347. 
Hardwicke, Philip, 1st Earl of, Lord 

Chancellor, iii. 187 note. 199. 489. 

iv. 427. 
I lard v, Admiral Sir Charles, v. 460. 

468. 
Hare, Sir Thomas, iii. 467. 
Harley, Dr. John, iv. 213. 
Harley, 2nd and 3rd Earls of Oxford. 

See Oxford. 
Harley, Margaret Cavendish, Duchess 

of Portland. See Portland. 
Harley, Mrs. i. 545. 
Harley, Robert, afterwards Earl of Ox- 
ford, i. 5. 5, note. 9. 70, note. 521 note. 

His mysterious stranger, vi. 183. 
Harley, Robert, son of Edward, 2nd 

Karl of Oxford, ii. 19. 20. 136. 443. 

524. 
Harold, Anthony, Earl, iv. 235 note. 

436 note. 
Harold, Mary (Tufton) Lady, i. 498. 

Married to Earl Gower, 557. See 

Gower, Mary, Dowager Countess. 
Harper, Lady Frances (Waldegrave) 

vi. 191. 
Harrington, Caroline (Fitzroy) Countess 

of, has a tiff with her daughter, iv. 

156. Black-balled at the Female 

Club, 262. See, also, v. 97. 156. 

287. 
Harrington, William Stanhope, 1st Earl 

of, Lord-Lieut, of Ireland, i. 256. 

ii. 62. 479. 535. 
Harrington, William Stanhope, 2nd 

Earl of, iv. 156, 262, 263. 346, 460, 

notes, v. 287 note. 
Harris, Mrs. i. 456. 
Harrison, Mr. iii. 596. 
Harrison, celebrated English tenor, vi. 

431. 
Harrop, Miss, vocalist, v. 525. 



558 



INDEX. 



Hartford. 

Hartford, Lady, i. 193. See, also, Hert- 
ford. 

Hartshorn and exercise, i. 250. 

Harvey, Harry. See " Ha— Ha" ; Her- 
vey, Henry. 

Hastings, Lady Betty. See Rawdon, 
Lady. 

Hastings, Warren, trial of, vi. 474. 

Hatton, Christopher, Viscount, i. 516 
note 2 . 

Hatton, Finch. See Finch-Hatton. 

Haviland, Mr. iii. 367. 614. 

Haviland, Mrs. (Dr. Young's daughter) 
ii. 524. 

Hawke, Admiral, iii. 493. 

Hawkeswell, Mr. i. 114. 

Hawkesworth, Dr. John, iv. 372. 450. 
552. 

Hawkins, Christopher, M.P. duly 
seated, vi. 217. 

Hawkins, Mr. iv. 168. 

Hawley, General, character and eccen- 
tricities of, ii. 419 note. 

Haws, Mr. i. 194. 

Hay, Ladies Fanny and Susan, iii. 319. 

Hay, Lady Catherine, iv. 313. v. 214. 
Letter from her to Mrs. Port, iv. 
313. 

Hay, Lady Grace, iv. 62. 190. Stanzas 
to her memory, 500. 

Hay, Lady Mary, iii. 336 note. 

Hay, Lord Charles, i. 324. 326. 

Hay, Mr. iii. 381. 

Hay, Sir Thomas, i. 609 note 7. 

Hay, Wm. Esq. death of, vi. 162. 

Hayes, Mrs. iii. 383. 433. iv. 203. 

Hayman, Francis, the artist, ii. 505 note. 

Haymarket Theatre, King of Den- 
mark's masked ball at the, iv. 180. 

Hays, Dr. of Windsor, iii. 313. 

Hays, Mr. i. 201. ii. 202. 

Hazlewood, Miss, iii. 47. 

Head, Mr. death of, i. 158. 

Head, Mr. iii. 226. 

Heathcote, Sir Gilbert and Lady, i. 
215 note. 

Heathfield, Lord, iv. 171 note. 

Heberden, Dr. iii. 243. 305. 308. 314. 
357. His character, 267. 

Heinel, Madlle. the dancer, iv. 493. 
Walpole's eulogy, ibid. note. 

Heidegger, opera manager, i. 6, note. 
138. 145. 587 note. 594. 

Hell-fire Club, character of the, vi. 162. 



Hervey. 
Helsham, Dr. i. 396. 398. 503. 
Helsham, Mrs. ii. 546. 553. 
" Hempdressers' dance," iv. 168. Air 

and figure, 169. 
Henley, Anthony, character of, i. 157. 
Henley, Sir Robert, of the Grange, i. 

243. 
Henley, Sir Robert, Attorney-General, 

afterwards Lord Henley and Earl of 

Northington, iii. 458. 466. His 

death, iv. 405. 
" Henri cus." See Monck, Henry. 
Henrietta Maria, Queen of Charles I. i. 

125 note. 246. 
Henry Frederick, Prince, Duke of Cum- 
berland. See Cumberland, Henry 

Frederick, Duke of. 
Henshaw, Mr. iii. 613. 615. 625. 
Herbert, Charlotte, iii. 85. Type of an 

extinct class, 178 note. 
Herbert, Henry, afterwards 1st Earl of 

Carnarvon, iv. 344. 
Herbert, Hon. R. S. i. 138 note. 
Herbert, Lady, vi. 153. 
Herbert, Lady Margaret, i. 136 and 

note 3 . 
Herbert of Cherbury, Lady, 448, note, 

449. 
Herbert, Miss, Maid of Honour to the 

Princess of Orange, i. 448. 
Herbert, Mrs. i. 138. 355. 573. ii. 

371. 
Hereford, Viscounts, i. 609 note 6 , iv. 

540. 
" Herminius." See Baltimore, Lord. 
Hermitage, Lord, i. 166. 
Hertford, Anne (Shepherd) Mar- 
chioness of, v. 483. 
Hertford, Francis Earl and Marquis of, 

iii. 560. 620. iv. 188. 404. 
Hertford, Francis, 2nd Marquis of, iv. 

262 note. 
Hertford, Isabella (Fitzroy) Marchioness 

of, iii. 500, note. iv. 262. 404 note. 
Hertford, Lady, i. 429. 441. 464. ii. 

8.47. 
Hervey, Captain, i. 219. 
Hervey, Hon. Augustus John, after- 
wards Earl of Bristol, iv. 563 note. 
Hervey, Hon. Henry, i. 104. 168. 170. 

179 note. Dr. Johnson's grateful 

remembrance of him, 180. 
Hervey, Mary Lepel, Lady, Duchess of 

Queensbury's retort to, i. 199. Her 



INDEX, 



Hr.uvi v. 
tart comment on the Spenoer-Poynts 
marriage, iii. 401, 402, iv. 2. Her 
.hath, 156. 

Hervey, John Lord, L 171. 219. 247. 
439. 644. ii. 860. Occasion of a 
poem by him, i. 108 note. On coro- 
nation of George 11. 140. His im- 
promptu on Voltaire, 1 • >0. Occasion 
of his challenging Lord Cohham, ii. 
541, 642. Walpole's version of the 
affair, 542 note. 

Hervey, Bon. and Rev. John, ii. '272. 

Hervey, Hon. Thomas, charge against, 
ii. 272. 

Hervey, Rev. .lames, author of "Medi- 
tations," &c iii. 195. 547. 

Hesketh, Robert, Esq. iv. 344 note. 

Hesse Cassel, Frederick Prince (or 
Landgrave) o\\ i. 429. Account of 
his marriage, ii. 86 — 89. 

i. Princess of. See Mary, 
Princess, daughter of George II. 

Heyoell, Mademoiselle. See Heinel. 

Heywood, Colonel, and the 1780 
rioters, v. 534. 

Heywood, Mrs. Eliza, novelist, iii. 79 
J 14 note, 

Hickman, Thomas, Esq. and daughter, 
iv. 418. 

■ High Life below Stairs," Towuley's 
farce of, iii. 578. 

Hill, Aaron, opera libretto by, i. 102 
vote. 

Hill, Anne, afterwards Lady Morning- 
ton, mother of Arthur, Duke of 
Wellington, iii. 86 note. 535, note. 
Her marriage-portion, 536. 

Hill, Arthur, of Belvoir, afterwards 
Viscount Dungannon, iii. 86, 535, 
l. iv. 171. "A sort of old 
beau " 514. 

Hill, Mary (Pole) Lady, iv. 9. 10. 14. 

Hill, Mr. mad-dog-bite cure of, iii. 
277. 

Hill, Rev. Mr. iii. 515. 516. 517. 

Hill, the tailor-linguist, iii. 551. 

Hill, Sir John, M.D. iii. 551. 

Hill, Sir Rowland, iv. 10, note. 

Hillinston cedar, the, iv. 528. 

Hills, Mr. iii. 51. 

Hillsborough, Margaretta Fitzgerald, 
Viscountess, iii, 409. iv. 14. 

Hillsborough, Trevor, 1st Viscount, iii. 
514 note. 



Hol.YOAKK. 

Hillsborough, Wills, 2nd Viscount and 
Lst Marquis of Downshire, iii. 409 
note, 498. 510. Sketch of his charac- 
ter, iii. 512. Description of his castle 
and grounds, 513, 514. Roughly 
handled by the L780 rioters, v. 535. 

Hinckley, Dr. iii. 384. 407. 

lline, Mrs. i. 401. 

Hitchcock, Agneta, i. 291 note. 

Hoadley, Dr. ii. 240. 

Hoare, Mr. ii. 197. 

Hoare, Mr. afterwards Sir Richard 
Colt, author, artist, and architect, vi. 
140 note. Glories of his Wiltshire 
domains, 141. 

Hobart, Albina (Bertie) wife of Hon. 
( ieorge, v. 115 note. 

Hobart, Sir John, afterwards Lord 
Buckinghamshire, i. 157 note. iii. 
328, note. His death, 444. 

Hocquart, French naval commander, 
treble mishap of, v. 315. 

Hodges, Mrs. iii. 623. 

Hogarth, William, faithful to the cos- 
tumes of his times, i. 282 note. Mary 
Granville's instructor, 283. His 
first original painting, ibid. note. 
Occasion of his Sigismonda, iii. 496. 

Holcombe, Mr. i. 189. 

Holderness, Frances (Doublet) Lady, 
iv. 262. v. 471. 473. vi. 153. 165. 

Holderness, Robert Darcy, Earl of, i. 
542 note. iii. 61. 138. iv. 262 note. 
507 note. Church patronage be- 
stowed by him on Mason the poet, 
572 note. 

Holkham, Lord Leicester's seat, v. 61. 

Holland, Henry Fox, Baron, and Geor- 
giana Carolina, Baroness, iii. 467. 
467, note. Their deaths, v. 19 note. 

Holland, Mary (Fitzpatrick) Lady, v. 
365. 

Holland, Stephen Fox, 2nd Baron, v. 75. 

Holland. See Fox. 

Holies, Henrietta Cavendish. See 
Oxford, Countess of. 

Hollins, Dr. i. 250. 464. 530. 533. 582. 
ii. 36. 

Hollwell, Mr. Oxford tutor, iii. 570. 

Holman, Mrs. iv. 124. 

Holstein, Prince de, v. 181, 182. 

Holt, Mrs. iii. 412. 424. 468. 

Holyoake, Mr. iii. 484. iv. 56. 579, 
note. Holyoake, Mrs. iv. 579. 



560 



INDEX. 



HOLYROOD. 

Holyrood House, iv. 171. 

Hook, Mr. ii. 13. 

Hooke, Nathaniel, the historian, i. 331. 

His service to the Duchess of Marl- 
borough, ibid. note. 
Hooker, Mr. ii. 30. 
Hooker, Sir William, notice of Ehret 

the painter by, iii. 255. 
Hooping cough, remedy for, iii. 475. 
Hop, Mrs. i. 285. 

Hope, Lady Elizabeth, iii. 292 note. 
" Hop'd She," notice of the song so 

called, i. 394. 
Hopkins, Miss, or Mrs. ii. 137. 143. 

207. 226. 
Hoppner, John, the painter, i. 282 

note. 
Home, Dr. George, afterwards Bishop 

of Norwich, v. 316. 317. 
Hort, Mr. painter, sad end of, iii. 466. 
Horton, Christopher, Esq. deceased, 

360 note. 465. 
Horton, Hon. Anne (Luttrell) widow 

of above. Bee Cumberland, Duchess 

of. 
Hotham, Mr. iii. 328. 
Hotham, Lady Dorothy (Hobart) iii. 

328. 332. 348. 394. 444. 
Hotham, Lady Gertrude (3rd Lord 

Chesterfield's daughter) v. 33. 
Houblon, Mrs. i. 546. 
Houbraken, the engraver, i. 485 note. 
Houghton, the seat of the Walpoles, 

iv. 572. v. 61—63. 
Houseman (or Huysman) James, por- 
trait painter, ii. 421 note. 
Howard, Anne, Lady Petre, iv. 265. 
Howard, Hon. Frances (afterwards Mrs. 

Bagot Howard) iv. 10. 46. 47. 51. 

69. 103. 109. 113. 115. 118. 252. v. 

216. 283. 376. 415. 418. 472. 
Howard, Hon. Henry, afterwards Earl 

of Suffolk and of Berkshire, iii. 397. 
Howard, Hon. Mrs. Greville, iv. 10 

note. 
Howard, Lady Anne, Lady in Waiting, 

v. 19. 
Howard, Lady Julia, v. 401. 
Howard, Lady Frances, vi. 388. 
Howard, Lady Maria, iv. 101 note. 
Howard, Lord and Lady George, i. 513. 
Howard, Misses, iii. 468. 470. 
Howard, Mr. of Ashtead, and daughter, 

iv. 443. 



"Humanist." 
Howard, Mary, afterwards Mrs. Ver- 
non, i. 483. 
Howard, Mrs. afterwards Lady Suffolk, 

i. 138. 
Howard, Philip, iv. 265 note. 
Howard, Sir George, vi. 337. His 

wives, ibid. note. 
Howard of Effingham, Lord, i. 483 

note. 
Howard de Walden Catherine (Clayton) 

Lady, painter's trick upon, vi. 400 

note. 411. 412. 
Howard de Walden, Sir John Griffin 

Whitwell, 4th Baron, afterwar< 

Baron Braybrooke, vi. 399 note. 411. 

412. 
Howe, Anne, i. 173. 
Howe, Scroop, 1st Irish Viscount, i. 

153, notes. 173, note. 
Howe, Emanuel Scrope, 2nd Irish 

Viscount, i. 544. 
Howe, John, afterwards Lord Ched- 

worth. See Chedworth. 
Howe, Mary, Countess, iv. 62. 
Howe, Miss, Maid of Honour to the 

Princess of Orange, i. 448. 
Howe, Miss, melancholy story of, vi. 

163. 
Howe, Mrs. afterwards Lady Ched- 
worth, i. 585. 
Howe, Mr. member of the Hell-fire Club, 

miserable end of, vi. 162. 
Howe, Pdchard, 1st Earl, iv. 62, note. 

v. 268, note. 276, note. vi. 232. 
Howe, Sir Richard and Lady, i. 153 

note K 
Howe, Sophia, " that ran mad for Mr. 

Lowther," i. 448. 449 note. 
Howe, Sir William, British Com- 
mander in America, v. 231 note. 245. 

268. 276 note. 285. 328. 
Howe's " Devout Meditations," iv. 578. 
Howitt, William, misconceptions of, 

relative to Bousseau and the Gran- 

villes, iv. 98. 
Huband, Sir John, i. 609 note 8 . 
Huddleston, Rev. Mr. i. 432. 591. 
Huddleston, Mrs. ii. 263. 296. 
Hudson, Dr. i. 261. 
Hudworth, Mrs. vi. 344. 
Hughes, Mrs. iii. 360. 
Hulse, Sir Edward, ii. 540. 
" Humanist," the, Dr. Delany's peri- 
odical, iii. 387. 405. 458. 



ixni 

Hum . 

Hume, Pa via, it. 419. v. 278. 

Hume, Lady Diana, iv. 205. 

Some, Lady Maw. \ i. 227. 

II inn.-, Miss, vi. 206. 

Hum.', sir Abraham, vi. 20. 

*• Humorous Lieutenant," Fletcher's, iii. 

Hunter, Or. editor of Evelyn's " Sylva," 

v. -j 
Huntingdon, George, 4th Earl of, iv. 

312 not*. 

Huntingdon, Theophilus, 9th Earl of, 
L99 note, 526 note. 

Huntingdon, Francis, LOth Earl of, iii. 
!:':•. note, 562. vi. 876. 1 Iii. 

Huntingdon, Selina (Shirley) Countess 
o\, at a royal birthday, ii. 28. Her 
position in the religious world, ibid, 
noti . iii. 227. 

Huntley, Marquis o\\ freak of, vi. 
1 72. 

Html, Dr. Richard, Bishop of Lichfield 
and of Worcester, iv. 548. 581. v. 
79. 95. 96. 100, 101. 118. 119. 194. 
231. 276. 374. 375. 378. 423. 471. 
473. 477. 478. 479. 480. 522. 526. 
vi. 17. 19. 215. 319. 429. Writer 
of Mrs. Delany's epitaph, 481. Her 
bequest to him, 487. ^ 

" Hurlothrumbo," Johnson's extrava- 
ganza of, i. 229. Notice and speci- 
mens of the piece, 231, 232. 

Husk, Colonel, i. 427. 

Hussey, Edw. Esq. i. 178 note. iv. 452. 

Hutchinson, Miss, i. 164. 

Hutchinson, Eliz. afterwards Lady 
Kennedy and Countess of Selkirk, 
i. 010 note. 

Huysman. See Houseman. 

Hyde, Alexander, Bishop of Salisbury, 
'iii. 202 note. 

Hvde, Captain, i. 200. iii. 415. 

Hyde, Colonel, i. 249. 

Hyde, Henry, Karl of Clarendon, iii. 
248, note.262, note. iv. 290 note. 

Hvde, John, husband of Mary Gran- 
ville's friend " Charlotte," i.*248. 

. Katherine, grand-daughter of 
5th Lord Baltimore, i. 249. 

Hyde, Lady, iv. 10. 402. 509. 

Hyde, Lady Catherine, daughter of 3rd 
Karl of Clarendon, i. 

Hyde, Lady Charlotte, i. 

Hyde, Lady Jane, ii. 205 note. 

PART II. — VOL III. 



X. 



56] 



Ii;\ -ink. 

Hyde, Lawrence (afterwards Earl o\' 
Rochester) i. 451. 

Hyde, Lord, i. !. 

Hvde, Hon. Jane (Calvert) "Charlotte," 
i. 97. 105. L20. 131. L32. L51. L64. 
209. 210. 230. 248. 27 1. iii. 415. 

Hvde, Mrs. Sen. i. 228. 

Hyde, Sir Lawrence, iii. 202, note. 

Hyde and Cornbury, Thomas, Lord, 
'death by accident of, iii. 229, 230. 

Hyde, Thomas Villi* rs, Lord, after- 
wards Earl of Clarendon, iii. 202, 
note. 296 note. iv. 462 note. v. 
162. 330. 445. 

Hydes, Earls o\' Clarendon and Ro- 
chester, i. 256. See Clarendon; 
( Jornbury ; Rochester. 

II vet i, Benjamin, Esq. i. 178 note. 331. 
177. 592. 

Hyett, Mrs. ii. 198. 

Hyndford, John Carmichael, Earl of, 
iii. 191, 192. 

llchcster, Stephen Fox, Lord, iii. 313 

note. iv. 553 note. 
llchcster, Elizabeth (Horner), Lady, iv. 

553. 
" Improvement of the Mind," Mrs. 

Hester Chapone's letters on, iii. 626 

note. iv. 504. 515. 
Inchiquin, William, 4th Earl of, i. 418, 

419. ii. 444. iii. 336. 
" Index," Mr. See Percival, Hon. John. 
Influenza, the, " this fashionable cold," 

v. 174. 175. 177. 178. 188. 
Insoldsby at Fontenoy, ii. 355. 387, 

388. 
Ingram, Arthur, Esq. iii. 486. 
Ingram, Hon. Louisa Susan, v. 516 

note. 
Ingram. See Irvine. 
Iniven, Thomas, M.P. iii. 173, 181. 

464, notes. His daughter, see Falk- 
land, Lucius Cary, Lord. 
Innis, Mr. See Enys. 
Inoculation and its dangers, ii. 4:60 note. 

Its success, iv. 102. 
Inundations of 1768, iv. 164. 
Irby, Sir William, afterwards Baron 

Boston, ii. 245 note 4 . 
Ireton, Henry, Parliamentary General, 

v. 385. 
Irvine, Charles Ingram, Viscount, iv. 

497. v. 516 note. 

2 p 



562 



INDEX. 



Irwin. 

Irwin, Lady, verses to George III. by, 
iii. 622. 

Isaacsons, the, Mary Granville's cou- 
sins, i. 183. 453. 531. ii. 37. 

Islington Wells, i. 367. 370. 

" Israel in Egypt," oratorio of, iii. 417. 

Italy, Addison's remarks on, iv. 23. 

" Jack Connor," novel of, iii. 116. 
Jackson, George, ii. 47. 
Jackson, Misses, i. 449. 558. 
Jackson, Mr. i. 454. 485. 533. 535. ii. 

228. 
James I. i. 125 note. 245. 
James II. i. 157 notes 2 . 4 . 246. 
Janssen, Miss, i. 247. 
Janssen, Sir Theodore, i. 243. 244 note. 
Japan work, i. 213. 227. 285. 
Jarvis, John, painter on glass, vi. 430. 

430 note. 
Jebb, Mrs. vi. 436. 

Jebb, Sir Richard, Bart. Court Physi- 
cian, vi. 43. 
Jeffreys, Mrs. iv. 91. 95. 124. 126. 
Jekyll, Joseph, Esq. iv. 18, note. 
Jekyll, Lady Anne (Montague) iii. 485. 

605. 606. iv. 14. 18. 
Jenkinson, Charles, afterwards Lord 

Hawkesbury and Earl of Liverpool, 

v. 402. 
Jenkinson, Mr. iv. 464. 
Jennings, Miss, " the beauty," iv. 412. 
" Jenny and Jemmy Jessamine," Mrs. 

Heywood's novel of, iii. 214. 220. 

223. 
Jenyns, Soame, iv. 129. 430. 434. v. 

180 note. 184, 185. 238. 261. 509. 

536. His disquisitions, vi. 231. 320. 

His satirical epitaph on Dr. Johnson, 

348. " Playful as a kitten," 405. He 

and wife, " ever blooming," 419. 
Jenyns, Sir Roger, and Sarah, iv. 464 

note. 
" Jephtha," oratorio of, iii. 419. 
Jerningham, Lady, iv. 337. 486. v. 514. 

573. vi. 88. 89. 110. 120. 227. 319. 

Mrs. Boscawen on Opie's portrait of 

her, vi. 114. Her sons, 120 note. 
Jerningham, Mr. v. 14 note. vi. 427. 

Verses written by him on Mrs. 

Montagu's falling down stairs, vi. 

251. 
Jerningham, Sir George, iv. 486, note. 
Jersey seized by the French, vi. 77. 



Jones. 

Jersey, Anne, Lady, iii. 607. 609. 

Jersey, Edward, 1st Earl of, i. 426. 

Jersey, William, 2nd Earl of, i. 543 
note. 

Jersey, William, 3rd Earl of, ii. 105 
note. 114. 136. 541. iii. 468. 608. 

Jersey, George Bussy, 4th Earl of, v. 
96 note, 333. 

Jersey, Frances (Twysden) Lady, v. 
204. 

Jerusalem, a " Roman Catholic altar " 
from, vi. 101. 

Jocelyn, Robert Baron Newport and 
Viscount Jocelyn, Lord Chancellor of 
Ireland, ii. 535 note. 547. Marries 
Lady Ross, iii. 308. 

Jocelyn, Hon. Robert, afterwards Earl 
of Roden, marriage of, iii. 179. 184. 

Jodrell, Mrs. Frances, v. 122. 167. 
326. 

Jodrell, Miss, v. 204. 236. 326. 

Johnson, Mr. iii. 46. 

Johnson, Robert, Governor of South 
Carolina, i. 359. 

Johnson, Sir Henry, i. 159 note 2 . 

Johnson, Samuel, the eccentric play- 
wright, i. 231. 

Johnson, Samuel, LL.D. on the word 
" Voider," i. 136. His grateful re- 
membrance of Henry Hervey, 180. 
On Thomson's " Sophonisba," 251 
note. His anger at Bishop Clayton's 
heresy, 291. On Dr. Delany's book 
on Revelation, 395 note. On Mrs. 
Delany, v. 12. His Lives of the Pocits, 
493. His Life of Pope, vi. 177. Sati- 
rical epitaph on him, 348. 

Johnston, Captain, ii. 482. 

Johnston, General James, iv. 123, note. 

Johnston, Lady Cecilia, iv. 123. v. 416. 
516. 518. vi. 324. Elopement of 
her daughter, v. 516, 517. 

Johnston, Miss, and Sir Robert King, 
ii. 482. 

Johnston, Miss, Maid of Honour, death 
of, v. 135. 

Joliffe, Mr. of Ammerdoun Park, i. 31 
note. 

Joliffe, William, Esq. office conferred 
on, iv. 401, note. 

Jones, Lady Catherine, on " relations 
and friends," i. 347. 

Jones, Rev. William (" of Nayland ") 
work on the Trinity by, iii. 548. 



IN 

Joxas. 

His letter to Dr. Delany, iv. L2, L3. 
Bia career, L3 note. 

Jones, Sir William, career of, iv. t66, 

467 notes. Bis verses on the L780 

riots, \. 589 541. 
. Ben, iii. 286. 
'• Joseph and his Brethren," oratorio of, 

ii. 271 note. 279. 290. 
•• Joshua," oratorio of, iii. L2. 
•• .hulas MaocabaBus," oratorio o\\ iii. 5. 
Jussieu, the botanist, iii. 255. 
" Justino," opera of, i. 57'. 1 n* 
Jnxton, Mr. iii. 625. 626. iv. L29. 

Kauffmann, Angelica, career, marriage, 
and death of, iv. 329 note. 

Kav, Dr. iv. 341. 

Kay, Mr. iii. 459. 460. 
Kav.', Rev. Dr. afterwards Sir Richard, 
^vi.2:i7. 

Kaye, Sir Arthur, iii. 304, note. 
Keate, George, author, v. 433. Verses 

by him, 435. 
Keck, Anthony, Esq. iv. 540 note. 
Keck, Lady Susan, ii. 448. 
Keene. Mrs. iv. 401 note. v. 417. 476. 

vi. 338. 
Keene, Whitshed, Esq. M.P. iv. 401. 

v. 417 note. 
Keet, Elizabeth, Lady Salisbury, iv. 

570. See Salisbury, Eliz. Lady. 
Keith, Mr. iii. 472. 
Kellaway, or Kelway, organist of St. 

Martin's-in-the-fields, i. 579. 579 

note 3. ii. Gl. iii. 264. 266.312. 
Kelly, Captain Dennis, i. 404. 
Kelly, Kev. George, escape from the 

Tower of, i. 404. 
Kelly, Miss, i. 324. 326. 341. 348. 393. 

397. 398. 402. 403. 404. Her death, 

405. 
Kellv, Miss, ii. 319. 
Kelly, Mr. i. 424. iii. 153. 161. 
Kellv, Mrs. ii. 308. 
Kemp, Mr. i. 160. 
Kempthom, Misses, ii. 27. 
Kendal, Duchess of, i. 89 note. v. 33. 
Kendal, Mrs. iii. 53. 166. 494. 
Kendrick, Mis- Nutty, iii. 619. 
Kenmare, Thomas Lord, ii. o<>~,. 
Kennedv, John Lord, i. 610 note 1 . 
Kennedy, Roll, iv. 463. 
Kennicott, Dr. iii. 526. His death, vi. 

i:;7 note. 



DEX. ' r >"«°> 

Bjlmabb. 

Kennicott, Mrs. vi. L37. 

Kennou, Mrs. oollectiOD of shells of, iii. 

315. 
Kent, Sophia (l.entinck) Duchess of, i. 

J. ii. 239. 
Kent, llcnrv de Grrey, Duke of, i. 178. 

lsi note. 186. iii. 489. iv. 236. 136. 

His marriages and issue, i. L87. 
Knit, Duke oi'. See Edward, Prince. 
Kenward, Mrs. Martha, i. 151 note. 
Kcnvon, Lloyd, afterwards Lord, v. 

347. 
Keppel, Admiral, afterwards Viscount, 

iv. 362. 460. v. 368. President 

Laurens taken prisoner by him, vi. 

78, note. His portrait by Reynolds, 

322 note. 
Keppel, Dr. Frederick, Bishop of Exe- 
ter, iv. 519, note. 
Kerr, Lady Mary, v. 453. 
Kerry, Countess of, ii. 564. 570. 
Kerry, Lord, iii. 554. 
Kildare, Bishop of, i. 334. See 

Fletcher, Dr. Thomas. 
Kildare, Emily (Lenox) Lady, ii. 445. 

450. iii. 133. 538. iv. 76. See 

Leinster, Duchess of. 
Kildare, Mary Dowager Lady, ii. 445. 

447. 449. 455. 467^ 483. 552. 
Kildare, James Earl of, afterwards 

Duke of Leinster, ii. 371. iii. 133. 

iv. 76 note. 
Kildare, Robert Earl of, ii. 371 note B . 

iii. 409 note. 
Kilkenny Castle, seat of the Ormonds, 

v. 547, 548. 
Killala, Protestant bishopric of, i. 

357. 
Killala, Protestant Bishops of. See 

Adair, Dr. A. ; Clayton, Dr. Robert ; 

Hamilton, Dr. Archibald ; Lloyd, 

Dr. William ; Otway, Dr. Thomas; 

Verschoyle, Dr. James. 
Killala, Roman Catholic bishopric of, 

i. 358. 
Killaloe, Bishops of. See Chenevix, 

Dr. R ; Synge, Dr. N. 
Killarney, its lakes and echoes, ii. 605. 

626. 
Killegrew, Mr. amateur vocalist, iii. 82. 

94. 
Killigrew, theatrical manager, tern]). 

Charles II. i. 126. 
Eilmare. See Kenmare. 

2i>2 



564 



INDEX. 



King. 

King, Charlotte (Tredcroft) Lady, v. 
462. 

King, Peter, 6th Lord, v 462 note. 

King, Sir .Robert, and Miss Johnston, 
ii. 482. 

Kingdom, Mrs. ii. 11. iii. 302. 306. 
463. 473. 

Kingsland, Lord, i. 392. 

Kingston, Evelyn Pierrepont, Duke of, 
i. 157 note 3 . 462, note. 557 note. 
iii. 439. 563 note. His death and 
testamentary dispositions, 554 note: 
573, 574. 

Kingston, Elizabeth Chudleigh, the 
notorious Duchess of, iv. 545. 554 
note. 562, 563. 573. v. 19, 20. 90. 
156. 161, 162. 188, 189. Her trial, 
206, 207. 211. The modern " Moll 
Flanders," 212. Married to a Polish 
Prince, 572. 

Kingston, Isabella Duchess of, i. 157. 

Kinnersley. See Kynnersley. 

Kinnoul, George Henry, 7th Earl of, 
i. 521 note. iv. 341 note. 

Kinnoul, Thomas Lord Dupplin, after- 
wards Earl of, iii. 254. 619. See 
Dupplin. 

Kinnoul, Lady, ii. 152. 

Kirke, Captain, iii. 332. 

Kirkham, Mr. iii. 351. 407. 446. 454. 

Kirkham, Rev. Mr. i. 305. 371. 460. 

Kirkham, Sarah, daughter of above, 
Mrs. Delany's early friend, iii. 429 
note. 626 note. See Chapone, Mrs. 
Sarah. 

Kirkman, Mr. iii. 383. 

" Kitty beautiful and young." See 
Queensberry, Duchess of. 

Knapper, Miss, iii. 116. 

Knapton, George, the artist, i. 485 
note. 

Knapton, Lady, iii. 467. 

Knapton, Sir John Denner Vesey, 
Baron, ii. 606. iv. 87. 

Knight, Mr. iii. 200. 

Knight, Mrs. afterwards Mrs. Nu- 
gent, i. 604. ii. 32. 

Knight, Mrs. iii. 111. 

Knightley, Miss, ii. 318. 

Knollys, Lady Catherine, Mary Gran- 
ville's schoolfellow, i. 2. 

Knox, Dr. iii. 528. 

Knowles, John, Esq. and daughter, iv. 
306 note*. 



Lansdowne. 

Krachschenninnechoff, iv. 191. 
Kynnersley, Miss, letter to Miss 

Dewes from, iv. 4. 
Kynnersley s, the, ii. 511. 513. iv. 4, 

note. 23. 58. 400. v. 407. 

Lacy, Drury Lane patentee, Ranelagh 
opened by, ii. 299. 

" Ladies' Diary," the, and its riddles, 
iii. 182. 220. 
IV* Lady Julia Mandeville," Mrs. 

• Brooke's novel of, iv. 23. 

Lafite, Madame, vi. 328. 

Lafountain, the artist, i. 283. 

Lake, Mary, first wife of John, 1st 
Duke of Chandos, v. 546, note. 

Lake, Sir Thomas, i. 504 note. 

La Lippe, Count, i. 128. 

Lambard, Lady, iii. 118. iv. 539. 

Lambard, Miss, v. 384. 396. 453. vi. 
143. 

Lambart, or Lambert, Mrs. iii. 272. 
422. 

Lambert, Dr. Ralph, Bishop of Meath> 
iii. 410. 

Lambert, Lady, i. 317. 

Lambert, Mr. iii. 270. 294. 310. 

Lander, Mrs. ii. 291. 

Lane, Hon. George Fox, v. 337. 

Lane, Mrs. iii. 271. 421. 

Langar, Barony of, iv. 62. 

Langley, Mrs." prettier than ever,"i. 58. 

Langlois, Mr. iv. 462. 

Langton, Joshua, Esq. iii. 471, note. 

Langton, Miss, iii. 600. 

Langton, Rev. Mr. i. 383. 

Lansdowne, George Granville, Lord 
(" Alcander ") Mary Granville's 
uncle, i. 2. 21. 22. 23. 25. 26. 29. 81. 
82. 163. 206. 217 note. 218. 222. 
223. 224. 238. 297. 314. 331. 347 
note. 370. 412. 417. 420. 429. 433. 
504, 505. 518. 537. 601. iii. 76. 
123, note. vi. 288. 289. Sent to 
the Tower, i. 9. Liberated, 20. His 
dramatic works : Pope's compliment 
to him, 200, 201. His death, burial 
dues' bill, &c. 524. 525, 526. A St. 
Clement's story probably referring 
to him and his lady, 527. Letters 
from him : To his niece, Mary Gran- 
ville (Mrs. Pendarves) i. 41. 43. 44. 
45. 46. 47. 49. 86. 87. 114. 115. 221. 
282. 418. To his niece, Ann Gran- 



IN 
Lansdownb. 

ville, i. 358. To his brother Ber- 
nard, i. 75. 77. To Mrs. Granville, 
his brother's widow, i. L13. To his 
nephew, Bernard Granville, i. 118. 
■ansdowne, Homy Petty, presenl Mar- 
quis (1862) Barony inherited by, i. 
610 xoU -. 

iwne, John Fitzpatrick, Earl of 

r ( tesory and Marquis of, and 

his successors, iii. 339 note. iv. 175, 

fcansdowne, Mary Lady (" Laura") i. 

20. 21. 22. 2a 24. 81—84. 103 

r I- !•") 108. 11-. 222. 224. 231. 

244. 252 and note. 253 note. 297. 

314. 369 note. 412.446. 1 ha- death, 

burial. Arc. 525 — 527. Letters from 

her: To (VI. Bernard Granville, i. 

59. To his son Bernard, i. 88. 
Lanze, .Mis. i. 339. 
■aroche, John, Esq. and his son 

James, i. 181 note. 
■troche, Mrs. ("Chatter-chops") i. 

181. 
Latouehe, Madame, ii. 51. 
Lauderdale, Countess of Dysart, Duchess 

of, i. 479, 480. 
" Laura." See Lansdowne, Lady. 
Laurens, Hon. Henry, President of 

aerican Congress, vi. 78. 
Lauzun, Due de, iv. 504. 

_ton, Ralph Payne, Baron, iv. 
note. 
Law, John, the Mississippi projector, 

wife of, ii. 26 note 2 . His son; his 

death, 27 note. 
Law, Rev. William, work against stage 

performances bv, iii. 541. His 

" Serious Call," 387. 
Lawrell, Mr. and Mrs. hoax practised 

on, vi. 342, 343. 
Lawrence, Sir Thomas, Granville 

family portraits by, v. 376 note. 

Protege' of Mrs. Delany's, vi. 319. 
"s "Lectures on Oratory," iii. 

533. 

n, Miss, ii. 37. 
Lawton, Mr. iv. 99. 
Leake, Mr. iii. 444. 466. 
Learned dogs, iii. 
Learned Ladies, Ballard's Memoirs of, 

iii. 230. See Ballard. 
Leasowes, the, iv. 443, note. 
Leckmere, Mr. and Mrs. ii. 91. 



DEX, 565 

Lenox. 
Ledwytche, Dr. ii. 606. 
Lee, Charles, American General, harsh 

treatment of, v. 231, note. 
Lee, Lady Betty, i. 192.231. 253. 
Lee, Lady Charlotte, i. 247. 
Leeds, Mary Duchess of, ii. 137. 151. 

153. 268. 270. 479. iii. 479. 485. 
Leeds, Thomas, 4th Duke of, ii. 62. 

iii. 463. iv. !<>:>. 507. See Carmar- 
then, Francis, Marquis of. 
Legard, opera singer, i. 102. 125. 
Legge, Charles, v. 305. 

. Hon. Ileneage, death of, vi. 

101. 110. 115 note. 
Legge, Hon. William, v. 305. vi. 2. 

His death, 303. 
Legge, Miss, iii. 1. 405. iv. 10. 
Legge, Mr. v. 382. 
Legge. See Dartmouth, Earl of; 

Lewisham, Lord. 
Legh," Dragon" i. 273. 
Legh, Miss^i. 80. 129. 185. 
Legh, Mrs. i. 129. 
Le Gondez, Mademoiselle, and her 

lovers, iii. 587. 
Le Grand, Mrs. Lady Cowper's friend, 

iv. 122. 126. 
Leicester, Margaret (Tufton) Lady, ii. 

525. iv. 235. 310. 388. v. 37. 61. 

62. 63. 166. Her death and will, 

112 note, 115, 117, 119, 120. 
Leicester, Robert, 2nd Earl of, iv. 345 

note. 
Leicester, Thomas Coke, Earl of, iv. 

235, note. v. 115, note. 117. 
Leinster, Duke of. See Kildare, Earl 

of. 
Leinster, Emily Duchess Dowager of, 

married to her son's tutor, v. 30. 36. 

89. 
Leixlip salmon leap, ii. 469. 
Leland, Dr. John, " Reflections on 

Bolingbroke " by, iii. 228. 
Leland, Dr. Thomas, Life of Philip of 

Macedon by, iii. 577. 
Lely's portrait of the Duchess of 

Mazarin, iii. 62. 
Lemon, Sir William, v. 43. 
Lennox, Mrs. character of her " Female 

Quizote," iii. 116, note. 
Lenox, Lady Emily. See Kildare, 

Lady ; Leinster, Duchess of. 
Lenox, Lady Louisa, and her lovers, 

iii. 535. 



566 



INDEX. 



Lenox. 
Lenox, Lady Sarah. See Bunbury, 

Sir Thomas. 
Lens, Bernard, drawing master, cha- 
racter of, i. 609 note °. 
Lenthall, Mr. i. 483. 
Lenthals, forlorn mansion of the, vi. 

137. 
Leonargan, or Lonergan, Mrs. and Miss, 

Mary Granville's estimate of, ii. 588. 

iii. 165. 218. 
L'Escaut, picture partly painted by, iii. 

496 note. 
Leslie, Dr. and Mrs. domestic picture 

of, iii. 517, 518. 
Leslie, Mr. iii. 51. 516. 
"Letters from Lady Juliet Catesby," 

iii. 604. 
Le Vasseur, Mademoiselle, iv. 97. 
Lever, Sir Aston, notice of the mu- 
seum of, vi. 349, 350. 
Leveridge, opera singer, i. 102. 125. 
Leveson, John, vi. 120. 
Leveson-Gower, Hon. John, afterwards 

a Lord of the Admiralty, iv. 208, 510, 

520, notes, v. 115. 116. 157. 389. 

397. 399. 403. 404. 412. 495. 546. 

vi. 75. 78. 198, 199. 228. 232. 345. 

374. 
Leveson-Gower,' Hon. Mrs. (wife of 

above) iv. 232. v. 3. 8. 10. 37. 116. 

129. 136. 142. 143. 157. 245. 264. 

321. 323. 330. 360. 369. 389. 396. 

397. 399. 409. 444. 453. 456. 460. 

466. 495. 546. 555. vi. 29. 47. 65. 

75. 78. 112. 113. 116. 117. 121. 141. 

228. 230. 231. 238. 339. 345. 351. 

360. 374. 
Leveson, Lady Louisa. See Mac- 

donald. 
Leveson, Mr. ii. 62. 235 note 3 . 
Leviston, Levington, or Livingstone, 

Mrs. (sister to Mr. Pendarves) i. 32. 

33. 124. 160. 171. 
Lewis, Anna, afterwards Lady Dysart, 

iv. 485. 
Lewis, David, Esq. of Malvern Hall, iv. 

85, note. 
Lewis, Mrs. i. 307. 

Lewisham, George Legge, Lord, after- 
wards 3rd Earl of Dartmouth, iii. 

304. iv. 9. 401. v. 382. vi. 7. 110. 

115. 214. 
Lewisham, William Legge, Lord, after- 
wards Earl of Dartmouth, ii. 516. 



Littleton. 
Lady, i. 545. 



iii. 304 



Lewisham 

note. 
Lewson, Mrs. See Gower, Jane ; and 

Gower, Lady Frances. 
Lexington, Robert Sutton, Lord, ii. 245, 

note 3 . 
Lichfield, Bishop of. See Cornwall]] 

Hon. James ; Egerton, Hon John ; 

Hurd, Dr. Richard ; North, Hon. 

Brownlow. 
Lichfield, Earls of, i. 137. 231. 247. 

248. ii. 235 note ~*. v. 85 note. 

iii. 447. iv. 306, note 6 . 
Lifford, James Hewitt, 1st Baron, iv. 

135. His wives, ibid. note. 
Lightfoot, Rev. John, naturalist, iv. 

191. 221. 238. 240. 243. 270. 337. 

372. 448. 479. v. 29. 39. 254. 365 

note. 390. 432. 470. 487. 563. 572. 

576. vi. 38. 46. 79. 81. 83. 102. 124. 

160. 170. 171. 172. 173. 243. 244. 

262. 341. 463. 469. His death, 

475. 
Ligonier, John Lord, death of, iv. 260. 
Lillo, George, author of " George Barn- 
well," i. 285, note. 
Limerick, Bishop of. See Buscoe. 
Limerick, James Viscount, afterwards 

Earl of Clanbrassil, ii. 297. iii. 179. 

His daughter, 179. 184. See Clan- 
brassil. 
Lincoln, Henry, 9th Earl of, and 

Catherine (Pelham) Lady, description 

of an assembly given by, iii. 416. 
Lincoln, Henry Pelham, Earl of, and 

Frances (Conway) Lady, v. 52. 72. 

93. 
Lincoln, Earls of, i. 161 note. 
Lincoln's Inn-fields Theatre, notices of, 

j # ^25 127. 

Lind, Dr. vi. 171. 172. 328. 

Lindsey, Robert, Lord, son of third 

Duke of Ancaster, v. 340. 
Linen-printing by copper-plates, iii. 

180. 
Linley, Thomas, music composer, iii. 

364, 365. 
Linnseus, iii. 255. iv. 244. 
Liotard, John Stephen, enamel painter, 

vi. 483 note. 
Lisbon, earthquake at, iii. 378 — 381. 
Lismullen Abbey, i. 374, 375. 
Lister, Dr. Martin, iv. 275. 
Littleton, Sir George, iii. 310. 



INDEX. 



507 



Littleton. 
Littleton. Set Lyttelton. 
Livingstone, Mrs, Sa Leviston, Mrs. 
Uandaff, Kails of, i. .'ill. 
Lloyd, Miss, iv. 261. 

1, Mrs. Kitty, ii. 45. 17. 
Lloyd, Rev. Mr. i. 346. 348, 362. 364. 

866. 361.368. 373.383. Celebration 

of his birthday, i. 378—380. 
poyd, Dr. William, Bishop o( Killala, 

i. 380. 
Lobkowits, Prince, ii. 4 16. 
Lock, Elizabeth, twentieth daughter of 

Sir William Look, i. 262 note. 
Locke, Mr. and Mrs. oi' Norbnry Park, 

and their artist son, vi. 47:2. 
Lockwood, Bev. Edward, iii. 160, 

Jn, Mr. and his gncst, iv. 5G. 
London, Bishop of. See Sherlock, Dr. 

Thomas. 
London " Xo Popery " riots of 1780, v. 

-:;. .—534. 
Lonergan. See Leonargan. 

Sir Philip Parker A'Morlev, ii. 

149. 
1. Qgleat menagerie, vi. 141, 142. 
Lonsdale, James Lowther, Earl of. See 

Lowther, Sir James. 
Lonsdale, Mary (Stuart) Countess of, 

i. 462 note. iii. 351. 445. iv. 168. 

v. 4.".,. 
Loos, Madame, " the famous foreigner," 

i. 544. 
Lord Mavor's feast to George II. and 

his Queen, i. 141—143. 
Lory, or Lowry, specimen of Mrs. De- 

lany's chenille work, iv. 290. 
Lothian, Caroline (D'Arcy) Dowager 

Lady, iv. 456. v. 160. 259. 333. 370. 

405. 
Lothian, Elizabeth (Fortescue) Lady, 

v. 333. 370. 
Lothian, William Henry, 4th Marquis 

of, iv. 456 note. 
Lothian, William John, 5th Marquis 

of, v. 570, note. 453, note. 
Lottery, rage in Mary Granville's days 

for the, ii. 6, 7. 
Loudoun, James, Earl of, v. 349. 
Louisa, Princess, daughter of George II. 

i. 118 note. 440. 
Louisburg, surrender of, ii. 381 note. 
Love story, a romantic, ii. 9, 10. 
Lovel and Holland, Lord, i. 473 note. 



\.\ NEDOGH. 

Lovelace, John and Neville, Lords, i. 
6 I ! note. 

Lovett, Alderman Christopher, i. .".7 7. 

Lowther, Anthony, i. I is. 1 I'.i note. 

Lowther, Mr. " a perfect Lothario," vi. 
L63, 

Lowther, Mrs. Hannah, ii. 166. Age 
at which she died, ibid. note. Sir 
William Lowther's Legacy to her, iii. 
423. 

Lowther, Sir James, afterwards Earl of 
Lonsdale, iii. 351. 445 note. 495. iv. 
168 note. v. 457 note. His litiga- 
tion with the Duke of Portland, iv. 
376 note. 

Lowther, Sir William, iii. 421. His 
early death and centenarian legatee, 
423", 423, note, 424. 

Loxley Park, Staffordshire, iv. 4, note. 

Lucan, Earl of, i. 352 note. Amateur 
flutist, iii. 532 note. See Bingham, 
Sir Charles. 

Lucan, Margaret (Smith) Baroness, vi. 
420. Her artistic talents, ibid. note. 

Lucas, Amabel, Baroness, created 
Countess de Grey, iv. 427, 436 notes. 

Lucv, Mr. iii. 196. 253. 381. 434. 481. 
iv. 58. 136. 154. 172. 204. 

Ludlow, Lady Frances, peculiar sedan- 
chair of, iii. 250. 

Ludlow, Mr. of Ardsalla, ii. 498. 

Lumley, Hon. Henry, i. 214 note. 

Lumley, Lady Anne, i. 136 and note*, 
ii. 32. 

Lumley, Mrs. i. 214. 547. 

Lumley, Sir James, i. 547 note. 

Lunard the aeronaut, vi. 250. 

Lushington, Mrs. iii. 133. 

Luton House, library, pictures, park, 
&c. iv. 542. v. 33—36. 

Luttrell, Col. iv. 465 note. 

Luttrell, Lady Anne. See Cumberland, 
Duchess of. 

Luttrell, Hon. Temple, v. 334. Mo- 
tion by which he took nothing, 515 
note. 

Luxborough, Lady, ii. 578 note. 611. 
Her character as drawn by Walpole, 
579. Mrs. Delany's estimate of her, 
586. iii. 109. 

Lydiat, Dr. iii. 78. 201. 248. 306. 

Lye, Miss, iii. 47. 

Lyndsey, Madam, i. 78. 

Lynedoch, Sir T. Graham, Lord, v. 78. 



568 



INDEX. 



Lyon. 

Lyon, Col. and Mrs. v. 500. 501. 

Lyon, Hon. Thomas, iv. 579. 

Lyttelton, George, afterwards 1st Lord, 
i. 464. ii. 466, 466, note. iv. 236 
note. 448. 458. v. 165. 498. His 
" Dialogues of the Dead," iii. 602. 
False report of his death, iv. 303, 
306. Alleged cause of his death, 538. 
Regrets, 540, 551. Walpole on the 
event, 567. Consequence of his 
omitting to superscribe a letter, vi. 
179. 

Lyttelton, Thomas, 2nd Lord: his wife, 
iv. 448, 458 notes. His character, 
567. Himself and his mistresses, v. 
189. 497-499. His vision and 
death, 498. 

Lyttelton, Mrs. George (Lucy Fortes- 
cue) ii. 295. 451. 466. 

Lyttelton, Sir Richard, iv. 306, 306 
note. 

Lyttelton, Sir Thomas, ii. 530. 

Lyttelton, William Henry, Baron 
Westcote and Lord Lyttelton, iv. 
362 note. 



Macarthy, Lady Charlotte, i. 100 note. 

Macartney, James, Esq. and his daugh- 
ters, iv. 117, 346, 362, notes. 

Macartney, Miss, iii. 133. 

Macartney, Jane (Stuart) Countess, i. 
462 note. v. 456. 457. 468. vi. 65. 

Macartney, Sir George, afterwards Earl, 
v. 198, 199. 456, 464, 468, notes. 

M'Aulay, Mr. and Mrs. ii. 465. 

Macauley, or Graham, Mrs. historian, 
iv. 268. 

Macclesfield, Thomas Parker, 1st Earl 
of, i. 262. Thomas Parker, 3rd 
Earl, iv. 464, note. 

M'Dermot, Miss, ii. 338. 346. Renun- 
ciation of Roman Catholicism by 
herself and sister, 346, 347. 352. 
Outrage practised upon her, 348 — 
352. 

M'Dermot, Misses, ii. 394. 396. 

Macdonald, Archibald, M.P. v. 334. 

Macdonald, Lady Louisa (Leveson) v. 
334. 336. 

McGregor, Sir James, remedy for ague 
prescribed by, ii. 274. 

Macgill, Lady Anne (Stuart), ii. 334. 
337 iv. 9. Her father, iv. 9, note. 



Manners. 
Macgill, Theodosia, afterwards Lady 

Gilford, iv. 9, note. 
Mackey, Mr. iii. 297. 
Macnamara, Captain, and " the treasures 

of the deep," iii. 262. 
Madden, Dr. Saml. i. 315. ii. 494, 495. 
Madden, Miss, i. 448. 
Madox, the wire walker, exploits of, 

iii. 206. Death by shipwreck, 527 

note. 
Magazin des Enfans, iii. 595. 
Magennis, Mr. iii. 438. 489. 
Magil, Miss, iii. 599. See Macgill. 
Magliavecchi's parallel, iii. 551. 
Mahon, Charles Lord, 3rd Earl Stan- 
hope, v. 42. 63. 78. 286. 
Mahon, Hester (Pitt) Viscountess, vi. 

395, note. 
Mahone, Mr. of Castlegar, i. 350. 351. 

352. 370. 385. 
" Maid of* the Haystack," the (" poor 

Louisa ") vi. 145. Walpole's letter 

concerning her, 145 — 147. 263. 
Maiden, Mr. iv. 99. 
Maintenon, Madame de, iii. 202. 213. 

v. 87. 
Mainwaring, Arthur, i. 175 note. 
Maitland, Mr. iii. 47. 
Majendie, Rev. Henry William, after- 
wards Bishop of Chester, vi. 310. 
Mallet, David, author, iii. 492. 602. 
Mallet, Mrs. (Mrs. Elstob's cousin), iii. 

429. 
Mallett, Mr. i. 398. 
Malone, Anthony, iii. 438. 
Manchester, Robert, 3rd Earl of, ii. 201 

note. 
Manchester, William, 2nd Duke of, i. 

141 note, 178 note. iv. 452. 
Manchester, George, 4th Duke of, v. 

538. 
Manchester, Isabella Duchess of, i. 

104 note*. 141. 153. 178. 189. 497. 

ii. 62. 468. Her second husband, i. 

178 note. iv. 454 note. A diamond 

buckle refused, 546. 
" Manifesto of Phebus," iv. 184. 
Maningham, Sir Richard, iii. 351 . 
Mann, Sir Horace, v. 400. 
Manns and Cornwallises, vi. 493 note. 
Manners, John, Esq. iii. 349. iv. 62. 
Manners, Lady Louisa (Tollemache) 

afterwards Lady Dysart, iii. 349. 

iv. 62. v. 356 note. 






!45 



i. 



IN! 
M ANN! i;>. 

Manners, Lady Lucy, ii. 27. 

M, minis. Lord Robert Sutton, ii. 

■ansel, Amy (Cox) I .ady, iii. 30. 
M sell, Barbara (Villiers) Lad} 

643. 
Ilai s II, Bussy, 1th Lord, 543 not} . 

62 ; 
■ansel, Sir William, Bart. iii. 30, 

Mansfield, Wm. Murray, Barou and 
Marl of, ii. 8 note. iii. 303 note. 
430 . ote. 431. 465. 190. v. 27. 132. 



265. 278. 393. 475. 187. 534. 538. 

vi. 3a 56. 63. 229. 295. 297. 

319. 322. 335. 347. 352. 370. 385. 

896. 432. Destruction of his house 

and library, v. 532, 533. Verses to 

him on his Leaving Tunbridge Wells, 

vi. 298. S* Murray, William 

lEansfield Elizabeth (Finch) Countess 

• Lady 1>< it v Murray.") iii. 430. 

. 494. iv. 110. 149. v. 339. 

! 12. 487. 534. 544. vi. 30. 51. 

62. 78. L20. lMl'. Ber death, 212 

note. 

Ifanvers peerage, i. 462 note, iv. 573 

Manzoli, Giovanni, opera singer, iv. 
47. 

Mapletop, Rev. Mr. iii. 277. 

Mapp, Mrs. the bone-setter, career and 
end of, i. 568, 569. 

Maratti, Carlo, Transfiguration by, iii. 
150. 193. 

March, William, 3rd Earl of, after- 
wards Duke of Queensberry, iv. 156. 
262. v. 4. 

March mont, Hugh, Earl of, iv. 265. 
436 

Marcon, Mr. and daughter, iii. 407 

" Maria." See Portland, Margaret, 
Duchess of. 

Mark ham, Rev. Dr. Master of West- 
minster School, preceptor to the 
Prince of Wales, afterwards Bishop 
of Chester, and Archbishop of York, 
iii. 316. 

Marlay, Dr. George, Bishop of Dro- 
more, ii. 380. 

Marlay, Irish Lord Chief Justice, iii. 
154. 282. 

Marlay (or Marlcy) Mr. and Mrs. ii. 



399. 
LOO. 



415, 

101 . 



M \i;v. 
164. 553. 567, 
133. L54. 281. 



558. 



569 

. 61. 

iv. 



Marlborough, John, " the greal " Puke 
of, i. 79 note. His enormous re- 
venues, vi. 178. Prince Eugene's 

w ittieism on him, 1 7'.'. 

Marlborough, Charles (nth Earl of 
Sunderland and) 2nd Duke of, i. 80 
note. -1-7 note. 430. 545 note. 546 
note. 554, 555. ii. 228. iii. 398, 
465, notes, iv. 2. 

Marlborough, George, 3rd Duke of, iv, 
L20. 249, note. 261 note. 

Marlborough, Sarah, "the old" Du- 
chess of, i. 79 note. 331 note. 427 note. 
430. 439 note. 471 note. 478. 545 and 
note. 546 note. 554, ~)^~). 587, note. 
610 note 3 . ii. 228. 245. iii. 334 
note. iv. 2 note. Anecdotes, vi. 167, 
168. 178. Pope's treatment of her 
as "Atossa," 181, 182. 183. 

Marlborough, Henrietta, " the young " 
Duchess of, i. 79. 79, 80 notes. 

Marlborough, Elizabeth (Trevor) Du- 
chess of, i. 545 note. ii. 32. 

Marlborough, Caroline (Russell) Du- 
chess of, iv. 120. 249. 250 note. 262. 

Marriage in Mary Granville's days, 
first consideration with regard to, 
i. 458. 491. Story of a singular 
marriage, ii. 34. Dr. Shebbeare's 
novel " The Marriage Act," iii. 321. 
328. 

Marsh, Charles, Shakespeare's " Win- 
ter's Tale " altered by, iii. 406. 

Marshall, Mrs. iii. 115. 

Marshall, William, agricultural writer, 
iv, 451. 

Martin, D. portrait engraved by, iv. 
404 note. 

Martin, Mr. killed by Captain Ogle, 
for what made memorable, iii. 423. 

Martin, Mr. banker, iv. 540. 

Martin, Rev. John, rector of Buckland, 
Gloucestershire, i. 13 note. 

Mary, Princess, daughter of George 
II. (afterwards Landgravine of Hesse 
Cassel) i. 440. 441. 484. 593. ii. 
86—89. iii. 609. 

Mary, Princess, daughter of George III. 
(afterwards Duchess of Gloucester) 
v. 213, note. vi. 58. 70. 148. Sketch 
of her by Miss Port, 387, 388. 



570 

Mary. 
Mary Queen of Scots, Robertson's 

History of, iii. 573. 
Mary, Queen of William III. story of 

Mrs. Egerton, a foundling protected 

by, i. 591. 
Maryland, settlement of the colony of, 

i. 246. 
Marylebone Gardens, site of, i. 559. 
Masham, Mrs. iii. 399. 
Maskelyne, Edmund, Esq. iv. 385. 
Mason, Aland John, husband of Lady 

Grandison, iii. 548. iv. 464 note. 

Borrows Dr. Delany's house, iii. 433. 
Mason, Miss, iii. 464. Lady Betty, ii. 

392. 434. 
Mason, Robert, Esq. i. 291, note. 
Mason, Rev. W. poet, Gray's biogra- 
pher, iv. 239. 438. 548. 572. v. 6, 

note. 11. 70. 79. 90, 91. 109. 125. 

144. 187. 267. 276. 288. 293. 328. 

390. 445. 446. 476. 536. 565. 568. 

vi. 38. 45. 54. 63. 64. 79. 82. 84. 91. 

109. 136. 232. His arrangement of 

the gardens at Nuneham, vi. 100 

note. 101. Offends Mrs. Delany, 232 

note. "Our poetical Mend," 235. 

Mrs. Delany's bequest to him, vi. 

487. 
Masquerade dresses, v. 180, note. 186. 
Massareene, Clot worthy, 5 th Viscount 

and 1st Earl of, ii. 429 note. His 

death, iii. 527. 
Massareene, Elizabeth (Eyre) Lady, iii. 

517. 
Masters, Mrs. iii. 362. 
Mathews, Admiral, ii. 267. 270. 274. 

275. 
Mathews, Captain, iii. 101. 
Mathews, Dr. ii. 321. 325. 347. 361. 

362. 553. 581. 
Mathews family, the, i. 314 note. 
Mathews, Mr. ii. 323. 324. 
Mathews, old Mrs. ii. 324. 
Mathews, Rev. Mr. Dr. Delany's curate, 

iii. 164. 511. 598. 
Matt, Miss, i. 102. 185. 
Matthew, General, iv. 213. 
Matthew, Mr. Mrs. and Miss, iii. 467. 
Matthews, Humphrey, Esq, i. 314. 

See Mathew. 
Maurice, Dr. Edwd. Bishop of Ossory, 

iii. 239 note. 
Maxwell, Dr. Henry, Bishop of Meath, 

iv. 489. 



INDEX. 

Meingy. 
Maxwell, General, v. 465. 
Maxwell, John, Baron Farnham, iii 

500 note. 
Maxwell, Miss, ii. 427, 428. iii. 318. 
Maxwell, Mr. and Mrs. iii. 155. 
Maynard, Charles, 2nd Viscount, v. 

237. 
Maynard, Lady, v. 400. 
Mayne, Sir William, afterwards Lord 

Newhaven, iii. 334, note. iv. 450, 

note. v. 415, note. 
Mazarin, Hortense Mancini, Duchess of, 

Mrs. Delany's reason for admiring 

Lely's portrait of, iii. 362. 
Mead, Captain, iii. 353. 482. iv. 92. 

120. 
Mead, Matthew, theologian, i. 582 note. 
Mead, Miss Henrietta, v. 346. Letters 

from her to Miss Dewes, iv. 201. 

314. 
Mead, Mrs. iii. 616. iv. 45. 55. 63. 67. 

111. 120. 
Mead, Dr. Richard, the eminent physi- 
cian, i. 582, note. ii. 59. 61. 139. 

iii. 255. Sale of his collection, 317, 

345. 
Meade, Dr. " blown up," ii. 585. 
Meade, Sir Richard, i. 253. 318. 324. 

ii. 554. 
Meade, Lady, widow of Sir Richard, ii. 

551. 553. 555. 557. 596. 
Meade, Sir John (son of the above) 

afterwards Lord Gilford and Earl 

Clanwilliam, ii. 554. 595. 597. iv. 

9 note. 
Meadows, Evelyn, and the Duchess of 

Kingston, v. 19, 20. 
Meadows. See Medows. 
Meath, Chaworth, 6th Earl of, i. 330 

and note. 
Meath, Bishops of. See Lambert, Dr. 

Ralph ; Maxwell, Dr. Henry ; Po- 

cocke, Dr. Richard ; Price, Dr. Arthur. 
Medical treatment of last century, iii. 

614. See Bloodletting. 
Medows family and Manvers peerage, 

i. 461,462. 462 note. iv. 573, 574. 
Mee, Mary, afterwards Viscountess 

Palmerston, iv. 463, note. 
Mee, Eliza, letter to Anne Viney 

from, vi. 439. 
Mee, Mr. iii. 44. 
Mee, Mrs. iv. 58. 
Meingy, Dr. i. 532. 



1NIM 
Melbourne. 
Melbourne, Periston Lamb, 1st Vis- 

oount,iv. 346, nob \ 7.235. 101 note, 
Hellish, Mr. a great sufferer by the 

Lisbon earthquake, iii. 379, 380. 
Mellish, Mrs. iii. 379. 380. 382. 624. 

v. -JT7. 293. 452. 453. vi. 379. 
Iftelmoth, William, author, iv. 550. 
'• M -ninon," i. lit''. 
Mends, Thomas, naval chaplain, vi. 

55. 
Iffercer, Miss, " that was," i. 58. 
Merchant, Mr. i. 212. 
Merighi, Signora, opera Binger, i. 1S4 

and note. 578. 
Merrick, James, the poet, ii. 497. 
Merril, Mr. iv. 95, 100. 
M Messiah,* 1 oratorio o\\ ii. 'J79. 284. 

406 noli. 623. 628. 629. iii. 184. 

27a 550. 579. iv. 441. 
Methuen, Paul, v. 471 note. 
Methuen, sir Paul, ring of, ii. 136. 
Meynell, Mrs. iv. 261. 346. v. 401. 
Middlesex, Grace, Lady, ii. 371. 
Middlesex, Lord, i. 158. 504, note. ii. 

67. 
Middleton, Dr. ii. 263. 
Middleton, Alan Broderick, Viscount, 

and wife, i. 136 note. 
Middleton, Francis, Baron, iii. 434. 
Middleton, Mary (Edwards) Lady, iii. 

434 note. 
Middleton, Mr. romantic love story of, 

ii. 9, 10. 
Milbank, Sir Ralph, iv. 346 note. 
Milford, Colonel, vi. 372. 
Miller, Mr. iii. 245. 253. 294. iv. 587. 
Miller, Philip, gardener and botanist, 

iii. 309. 333. 
Miller, Sir John, death of, iv. 435. 
Millers of Batheaston, v. 198. 217. 
Mills. Mrs. and Miss Dolly, iv. 58. 
Mills, Mrs. Mary, letter to Miss Dewes 

from, iv. 287. 
Mills, William, Esq. and wife (Eliza 

I'L'hy) vi. 342. 384. 
Milman, Dr. afterwards Sir Francis, vi. 

143. 
Milton, John, and his mother, minia- 
ture of, vi. 173. 
Milton, J. Darner, Lord, i. 317, note. 
Minden, battle of, Lord George Sack- 

ville's conduct at the, iii. 569. 
Mingotti, Caterina, opera singer, iii. 

421. 



X. .',71 

Mom k. 

11 Minstrel, The," Dr. Beattie's poem, iv. 
585, 

Minto, Gilbert Elliot, 1st Earl of, v. 
257 note. 'Ji>2 note, 

" Minute Philosopher," the, ii. 295.634. 

" Miser, The," Fielding's comedy, ii. 98. 

u Miss in her Teens," persons mimicked 
by Garrick in, ii. 463. 

Misson, author of the "Voyage to 
hah," i. L56 note. 

Misson, Mrs. i. 129. 154. 

Mitchell, Col. v. 321, note. 

Molesworth, Captain, i. 136. 

Molesworth, Dr. Coote, and wife, suf- 
ferers by fire, iv. 16. 

Molesworth, Hon. Miss, i. 290, note 3 . 
392. 

Molesworth, Mary (Usher) Lady, iii. 
467. Burnt to death with two of her 
daughters, iv. 15. Account of the 
fire, 16, 17. 

Molesworth, Richard, 3rd Viscount, i. 
392. ii. 278. 

Molesworth, Richard Nassau, 4th Vis- 
count, iv. 16. 

Molesworth, Robert, mortally wounded 
at Fontenoy, ii. 356, 357. 

Molineux (or Mulincx) Samuel, Esq. i. 
168 and note. 

Molyncux, Charles Viscount, after- 
wards Earl of Sefton, iv. 263 note, 
346. 

Molyneux, Isabella (Stanhope) Lady, 
iv. 261 note. 263. 346 note. 

Molyneux, Mrs. iv. 306. 

Monck, Charles, iii. 113. iv. 150. 

Monck, Henry (" Henricus ") i. 111. 
207. ii. 319 note. 416. 438. 522. 
iii. 94. 112. 254. iv. 157 note. 165. 
167. 168. 

Monck, Isabella, afterwards Lady Ty- 
rone, v. 50. 165. 

Monck, Lady Isabella (Bentinck)i. 157 
note 3 . ii. 63. 319. 416. 517. 518. 536. 
iii. 94. 112. 

Monck, Miss, iii. 254. iv. 165. 

Monck, Mrs. i. 258. 277. iii. 532. iv. 
50. 

Monck, Stanley, i. 393. 458. 

Monck, Sir Thomas, of Potheridge, 111 
note. 536 note. 

Monck, Thomas Stanley, iv. 157. 

Monck, William, Esq. i. 215 note. ii. 
333. 345. 346. 372. 



572 



INDEX. 



MONCKS. 

Moncks, family of the, i. 281. 290. 508. 

Ancestry, marriages, descendants, i. 

290, 291 notes, ii. 308. 
Monckton, Hon. Mary, afterwards 2nd 

Countess of Cork, vi. 352. 
" Monimia," i. 145. 217. 
Monk, Henry, death of, i. 69 note 2 . 
Monks, Dukes of Albemarle. See Al- 
bemarle. 
Monkton, General, at the siege of 

Quebec, iii. 571, note. 
Monro, John, M.D. 535. 
Monsey, Dr. ii. 539. 
Monson, Elizabeth (Capel) Lady, v. 

304, note. 
Monson, John, 3rd Lord, v. 3C4. 
Monson, Theodosia, Dowager Lady, v. 

304. 
Montagnana, opera singer, i. 578. 
Montagu, Anthony, Viscount, i. 522 

note. . 
Montagu, Barbara (Webb) Viscountess, 

i. 522. 
Montagu, Colonel, i. 427. 
Montagu, Edward, ii. 47. 231 note. 

257. v. 128. 135, note. 
Montagu, Edward Wortley (Lady M. 

W. M.'s son) book by, iii. 419. 

Death of his wife, v. 198. His own 

death, 220. 
Montagu, Elizabeth, Duchess Dowager 

of, i. 497, 498. 
Montagu, Elizabeth ("Fidget") born 

Robinson, i. 556. ii. 95. 134. 137. 

\/ 167. 168. 231. 275. 345. 444. 447. 

/" 449. 536. 563. iii. 235. 415. 444. 

iv. 9. 10. 14. 129. 236. 259. v. 5. 

6 note. 79. 92. 97. 112. 119. 125. 127. 

135. 165. 171. 175. 178. 187. 204. 

226. 230. 238. 239. 263. 280. 293. 

322. 331. 341. 363. 399. 400. 414. 

419. 430. 436. 449. 460. 466. 476. 

502. 505. 525. vi. 78. 120. 319. 

Her literary labours, annual chim- 
ney-sweep feast, &c. ii. 231 note. 

Scene of her annual assemblage of 

the chimney-sweeps, vi. 65 note. 

Verses on her falling down stairs, 251. 
Montagu, Frederick (afterwards Right 

Hon. F.) ii. 536. iii. 333. v. 79. 505. 

520. 523. 528. vi. 31. 45. 110. 215. 

300. 314. 319. 339. 355. 371. 377. 

394. 397. His country seat, 109 

note 1 . Official positions held by 



Montgomery. 

him, 109, 139, notes. Mrs. Delany's 

bequest to him, 485. Letters from 

him to Mrs. Delany, v. 27. 385. 390. 

446. 565. vi. 54. 63. 100. 108. 139. 

142. 235. 288. 

ontagu, Georg< 

His death, 519.'523. 
Montagu, George, Earl of Halifax, iii. 

258. iv. 324. 389. 
Montagu, George Brudenell (Lord 

Cardigan) last Duke of, iv. 107. v. 

374. 478. vi. 254. 
Montagu, Hon. John, afterwards Raron, 

iv. 92. 92. 
Montagu, John, Duke of, i. 141 note. 

178 note. 440. 498. 546, note. iii. 

485. iv. 452. 
Montagu, Lady, iv. 62. 
Montagu, Lady Anne, i. 258 note. ii. 

62. 200. 
Montagu, Lady Elizabeth, afterwards 

Lady Sandwich, iv. 10. 
Montagu, Lady Elizabeth, wife ol 

Henry Archer, M.P. iv. 324. 
Montagu, Lady Fanny, i. 439. iv. 10. 
Montagu, Lady Frances (died un- 
married) iv. 10. 
Montagu, Lady Frances, wife of Sir 

Roger Burgoyne, iv. 491, note. 
Montagu, Lady Mary, i. 204. 
Montagu, Lady Mary, Countess of Car- 
digan, iii. 485. 
Montagu, Lady Mary Wortley, i. 104 

note 2 . 339 note. 522. 557, note. iii. 

419 note, i v. 344, 361, notes. 
Montagu, Miss, iv. 453. 455. 
Montagu, Mr. iii. 405. 413. 427. 435. 

509. 613. iv. 259. v. 6. 125. 223. 

224. 328. 431. 445. 503. 522. 552. 

576. 
Montagu, Mrs. (Hanover Square) iii. 

266. 333. v. 119. 178. 204. 
Montagu, Ralph, Lord, first Duke of, i. 

497. 536 note. 
Montagues, the, ii. 208. 226. 270. 
Montandre, Madame, an ancient lady, 

a visit to the toilette of, iii. 479, 480. 

iv. 250. Her husband, iii. 479 note. 
Montcalm, General, French com- 
mander at Quebec, iii. 471 note. 
Montgomery, Anne, Lady Townsend, 

iv. 507. 
Montgomery, Mrs. reputed wife of Dr. 

Clements, ii. 559. 612. iii. 8. 224. 507. 



INI) 

MONTQOMKBl ■ 

fwitgomery, Sir William, iv. 507 note. 
lontjoy, Lord, i. 317.320. 338. 392. 

397. (Sf< Blessington, Mountjoy. 
Jfemtrose, James, 3rd Duke of, \i. 121 

n »se, Lucy, 1 Kichcss of, v. 97. 
. Mrs. i. L29. 155. 
. Capel and Lady Mary, i. '2, I, 

Dr. Edward, novelisl and dra- 
matist, iii. 214 note. 
Bore, Bon. and [lev. Edward, losl at 

. iii. 527 noU . 

. Michael, Esq. of Drogheda, 522 

Vlooiv, Admiral Sir John and Lady, 
and their daughters, iv. 213, 213 
hot( -. 

Moorish lady's state visit to Madras, 
ii. 169. Ber adornments, cost nine, 
plethora of jewels, Arc. 170 — 173. 

Mfordaunt, Hon. Lewis, i. 161. 173. 

Mordaunt, Lady Mary, i. 471 note. iv. 
!. 95. 99. v. 77. L53.202. 208. 
219. 338. 349. 439. 476. 486. 552. 
560. 

Mordaunt, Miss, ii. 561. iv. 136. 

Mordaunt, Mr. iv. 11. 15.202. 

Mordaunt, Mrs. i. 544. 

Mordaunt, Rev. Charles, iv. 136. 587. 

Mordaunt, Sir Charles, ii. 454. 467. 511. 
547. 550. 616. iii. 132. 284. 294. 
304. 317. iv. 23. 202 note. 

Mordaunt, Sir John, v. 353. 

Mordaunt of Turvey, barony of, iv. Go, 
note. 

Ilorden, Sir John, i. 279. 

More, Hannah, v. 144. 297. 334. vi. 
78. 136. 1 t5. 1S9.262.324. 325. 356. 

VHer tragedy of " Percy," v. 334. 
Characters from her poem of " Sen- 
sibility," 361, 362. Her " Bas 
Bleu," 191. Desire of King George 
III. regarding it, 237. 

More, Sir Robert, iii. 256. 

More, Sir Thomas, Holbein's portrait of, 
vi. 137. 

Morella, the violinist, ii. 610. 615. 626. 
628. 629. 630. 

M a (no! Moses) Mr. Rowe, i. 262. 

Morgan, Martha, married to Edward, 
third Earl of Oxford, i. 5 note. 

Horley, Arm, marriage, ancestry and 
descendants of, i. 1, note 2 . 



A. 573 

MOUNTBN LI . 

Morley, Anthony, iv. 1 1 note. 

Mornington, Anne (Hill) Lady, iii. 535, 
note. 536. 5 l |! . 

Mornington, Elizabeth (Sale) Lady, i. 
255 note. ii. 502 note. 

Mornington, Garretl Wesley, 2nd Baron, 
lsi Viscount VVellesley and Earl of 
Mornington, Mrs. Delany's godson, 
father of the greal Duke of Welling- 
ton, and eminent musical amateur, 
ii. 501. iii. 540. v. 408. Musical 
academy founded by him, iii. 531, 
532, His lost, love and bis wife, 
536, 537. 

Mornington, Richard Wesley, Baron, 
i. 255 note. ii. 498. 501. 545. iii. 
62. 86 note. 90. 94. 131. 165. 415. 
s << Wesley, Richard Oolley. 

Morpeth, Lord, i. 427. 

Morpeth, Viscountess, i. -1 ( .>7. 

Monis, Mr. Lady Bervey's letter to, 
iii. 401. 

Morris, Valentine, of Piercefield, iv. 160. 
Anecdote connected with his retire- 
ment from his estate, 164, His end, 
165. 

Morton, Sir Albertus, i. 245 note. 

Mosse, Dr. founder of the Dublin Lying- 
Inn Hospital, iii. 18 note. His gratis 
public breakfast, 19. 

Mostyn, Mrs. Mary Catherine (daughter 
of Lord Teynham) v. 453. vi. 61. 

Motteville, Madame dc, authoress, iii. 
183. 

Mount, Mr. Sir John Meade's tutor, ii. 
554. 595. 596. iii. 6. 98. 158. 222. 
225. Kindness of Mr. Wilson and 
Mr. Adderley to him, 244. 

Mountcashel, Stephen Viscount, i. 419, 
note. Edward Lord, iii. 572 note. 

Mount Edgcumbe, lament over trees 
cut down at, v. 459. Extent of the 
mischief, 462. 

Mount Edgcumbe peerage, origin of 
the, i. 258 note. 

Mount Edgcumbe, Emma (Gilbert) 
Lady, iv. 219. 226. 303.589. vi. 
25. 121. 142. 232. 239. 261. 370. 
418. 

Mount Edgcumbe, George Earl of, iv. 
219 note. 226 note. 589. 

Mount Edgcumbe, Richard Edgcumbe, 
afterwards Earl of, iv. 589. 

Mountenav, Mrs. ii. 564. 567. 612. 



574 INDEX. 

MOUNTFORD. 

Moimtford, Lord, iii. 317. 

Mountjoy, William Stewart, 2nd Vis- 
count, ii. 553 note. 

Mountmorres, Hervey Redmond de 
Montmorency, 2nd Viscount, v. 287. 

Mountnorris, Arthur Annesley, Earl of, 
result of claims of, iv. 104 note. 

Mountstuart, Charlotte (Hickman) 
Lady, vi. 188. 

*' Mourning Bride," Congreve's, iii. 
538. 

Moy, abbey of, i. 350 note. 

Moy fishery, i. 355 note. 

Moyser, Miss, iii. 227. 

Muilman, Mrs. Teresa Constantia, ii. 
624. 627. 

Mulgrave, Lord. See Phipps. 

Mulso, Hester (" Mul ") afterwards 
Mrs. Chapone, iii. 36. 272. 299. 350. 

351. 358. 385. 423. Model for 
Richardson's genteel characters, 60. 
Married, 626. See Chapone, Hester. 

Mulso, Mr. of Trigwell, iii. 626. 

Mulso, Rev. John, marriage of, iii. 429. 
v. 407. 436. 

Mun caster, Lord, Capt. Tollemache 
killed by, v. 327. 337. 

Murphy, Mr. " Hibernian artist," i. 444. 

Murray, Hon. Anne, letter to Miss 
Port from, vi. 297. 

Murray. Count, and his daughter Chris- 
tina, iv. 344, note 4 . 

Murray, Hon. Eliz. afterwards wife 
of George Finch Hatton, v. 393. 
394. vi. 304. 323 note. 328. 

Murray, Lord John, iii. 137. iv. 62. 

Murray, Misses, v. 22. vi. 304. 341. 

352. 385. 
Murray, Misses, daughters of Lady 

Blaney, iii. 28. 
Murray, Miss May, vi. 347. 352. 370. 

403. 
Murray, William, afterwards Earl of 

Mansfield, iii. 168. 349. 431. See 

Mansfield, William Earl of. 
Muscovy, Grand Duke of, i. 77 note. 
Musgrave, Sir Philip, Bart. iv. 587 

note. 
Musgrave, Sir William, Bart, portrait 

collector, iv. 150. 168. 188. 352. 

461. vi. 167 note. 195. His wife, 

iv. 150, 352, 461, notes. 
Mynne, George, ancestor of the Mynnes 

of Surrey, i. 246. 



NlCHOLL. 

Nabob, state visit to Madras of a, ii. 

169. 
Napier, Hon. George, iii. 538, note. 

464, note. 
Napier, Sir Nathaniel, Bart. i. 219. 
Nash, Beau, iii. 467. 607. 
Nassau, Lady Frances, i. 136. 137. 
Neadler, violinist, i. 228. 
Neate, Rev. Mr. v. 487. 488. 
Nelton, Sir Tho. Baronet, i. 219 note. 
Nenagh and its ruined castle, i. 386. 
Netterville, Nicholas, 5th Viscount, 

and Catherine (Burton) Lady, i. 338. 

341 note. 
Newark, William Pierrepont, Viscount, 

iv. 573, note. 
Newborough, Thomas Lord, iii. 398, 

note. His wife, 398. 
Newby, Charles, Esq. iii. 467, note. 
Newcastle, Duchess of, ii. 137. 
Newcastle, Duke of, iv. 394 note. 
Newcastle, Harriet (Godolphin) Du- 
chess of, v. 242. 
Newcastle, Henry Cavendish, Duke of, 

i. 154 note 2 . 497. 498. 547 note. 
Newcastle, Henry Pelham Clinton, 

Duke of, iii. 463. iv. 573. 
Newcastle, William Cavendish, 1st 

Duke of, iii. 443. 
New College, Oxford, vi. 137. 
Newcomb, Miss, iii. 502. 542. 
Newdigate, Hester (Mundy) Lady, v. 

221 note. 
Newdigate, Mr. and Mrs. v. 427. 
Newdigate, Sir Roger, Bart. 221 note. 
Newhaven, Frances (Allen) Lady, v. 

414, 415. See Allen, Frances. 
Newhaven, William, Lord Cheyne 

Viscount, ii. 288 note. 
Newhaven, Sir William Mayne, Baron, 

iii. 334 note. iv. 450, note. v. 415, 

note. 
Newman, Mr. ("Carlo") i. 51. 52. 53. 

His base conduct, 54. 
Newport, Lady, iii. 311. 
Newspaper accounts, v. 467. 
Newton, Miss, 534. 
Newton, Mr. i. 433. 448. 534. ii. 31. 
Newton, Mr. Jun. ii. 39. 
Newton, Sir Isaac, i. 582 note. His 

opinion regarding written letters, iv. 

29. 
Nicholl, Frances, afterwards Lady Dart- 
mouth, iii. 283. 



[NDEX. 



Xicuoi.s. 
Nichols, Miss, a "vixen," iii. 59. 
Nicholson, Margaret, murderous attack 

on George 111. by, vi. 376 — 378. 
•Nicol, that wretched Mr." v. 333. 



bin 



wl, 



ini, the opera ringer, and Powell's 
toque upon him, i. 16, Date o( 

arrival in England, 57 note :i . 

Popery " riots o( 1780, v. 680. 
1. 532—634. 

ItB, Louis, Viscount de, v. 238. 
ex, engraver, portrait engraved by, 

404 / 

Lady Anne, iv. 456. 
ljuror, The," Gibber's comedy, iii. 

►Ik, Henry, 6th Duke of, i. 513 
e. Thomas, 8th Duke, i. 173. 522 



i, Edward, 9th Duke of, ii. 444 
llis house in St. James's 
Square, iii. 409. Grand ball given 
by him, 420, 421. 

Norfolk, Charles Howard, 11th Duke 

. 1G6. 
\ortolk, Mary (Mordaunt) divorced 

Duchess of, i. 471, note. 
Norfolk, Mary (Shirburne) Duchess of, 

wife of Thomas, 8th Duke, i. 195. 

210. 522. 
Norfolk, Mary (Blount) Duchess of, 

wife of Edward, 9th Duke, ii. 444. 

447. 448. Her menagerie, iii. 440. 
\orris, Admiral Sir John, ii. 267. 272. 

276. 
worth, Ann (Speke) Lady, iii. 336 

note. 620. iv. 9. v. 490. 538. vi. 
Slorth, Hon. Brownlow, Bishop of 

Lichfield, of Worcester, and of Win- 
chester, ii. 451 note. iv. 318 note. 

575. vi. 17. 43. 313. 339. 
Jorth, Elizabeth (Dowager Lady Lew- 

isham) Lady, ii. 24. 165. 167. 168. 

200. 208. 222. 320. 376. 393. 

. Francis Lord, afterwards Earl 

of Guilford, i. 247. ii. 262. 423. 

451. 512. 526. 531. 599. iii. 28. 33. 

92. See Guilford, Francis, Earl of. 
Vorth, Hon. Frederic, afterwards Lord, 
' Prime Minister to George III. and 
sequently 2nd Earl of Guilford, 

ii. 516. iii. 336. 578. iv. 9. 333. 

v. 95 note. 260. 300. 476. 490. 514. 
I 576. vi. 43. 44. 108. 314. 339. 



NUENS. 
Firs! Lord o( the Treasury, iv. 206. 
llis house attacked by the mob, 

340, note. Chancellor of Oxford 

University, 434. llis triumph over 

Lutticll, v. ."-l 1, 516 note. 
North, George Augustus, afterwards 

3rd Marl of Guilford, iv. 383 note. 
North, Lady Louisa, afterwards Lady 

Willoughby de Broke, iv. 5. See 

Willoughby, Louisa Lady. 
North, Peregrine, i. 331 note. 

Northampton, Anne (Somerset) Lady, 

iii. 569. 
Northampton, Charles, 7th Earl of, iii. 

349, note. 
Northampton, Lady, second wife of 

Spencer, 8th Earl of, iv. 462. 
Northern!, Fulham, Sir John Stan- 
ley's residence at, i. 167. 215 note. 

257. 258. 488. 492. 541. 551 note. 

612. ii. 4, 5. 
Northey, Sir Edward, ii. 188 note. 
Northey, William, Esq. ii. 188. 
Northington, Robert Henley, 1st Earl 

of, i. 157 note. v. 337, note. His 

death, iv. 405. 
Northington, Robert Henley, 2nd Earl 

of, 567. vi. 11. 
Northumberland, Joceline Percy, last 

Earl of, i. 552 note. 
Northumberland, Anne, Duchess of, 

i. 462 note. iv. 180, v. 41. 339. 
Northumberland, Duke of Somerset to 

be Earl of, ii. 332. 
Northumberland, Elizabeth Seymour, 

Duchess of, v. 135. 166. 265. 
Northumberland, Hugh Smithson, 

Duke of, i. 553 note. iv. 339 note. 

v. 41 note. 166. 265. His grand 

entertainment to the King of Den- 
mark, iii. 180, 181. 188. Roughly 

handled by the 1780 mob, v. 533. 
Norton, Sir Fletcher, Speaker, mob 

attack on the house of, iv. 340 note. 
Norwich, Bishop of. Bee Home, Dr. 

( taorge. 
Notes and invitations, samples of, iv. 

129. 
Nottingham, Daniel Finch, Earl of, i. 

516 note. iii. 464. 
Novio Magus, Roman station of, i. 250 

note. 
Nuens, Mrs. iii. 28. Meets with an 

accident, 181. 187. 






076 

Nugent. 
Nugent, Mr. i. 402. ii. 32. 
Nugent, Robert, afterwards Viscount 

Clare and Earl Nugent, i. 604 note. 
Nuneham, Lady, iv. 266. 
Nuneham, Lord Harcourt's seat, glories 

of, vi. 100, 101. 
Nursing and wet-nursing, v. 6, 7. 



Oakly Wood, Lord Bathurst's seat, i. 

421. 
Oakover, Mr. iii. 323. 
O'Brien, Captain, winnings of, at the 

gaming-table, iii. 336. His wife, 

ibid. note. 
O'Briens, Lords of Clare, military fame 

of the, i. 157 note 4 . 
Ockley, Simon, literary works of, ii. 

378 note. 
O'Connor, Owen, Bishop of Killala, i. 

357. 
O'Connor, Roger, i. 350. 
Octavius, Prince, son of George III. vi. 

70. His death, 129. 
Ogilvie. See Findlater. 
Ogilvy, Mr. i. 596. 
Ogle. Captain, person murdered by, 

hi.' 423. 
Ogle, Dr. Newton, and wife, iii. 379 note. 
Ogle, Lady, i. 160. 
Ogle, Mr. i. 281. 284. 
Ogle, Mrs. (Mary Granville's cousin) i. 

71. 
O'Hara, Cane, iii. 532. 
O'Hara, Mrs. ii. 481. 564. iii. 541. 
" Old Church Clock," hero of the, iii. 

371. 
Oldfield, Mrs. the actress, i. 3. 171. 

175. iii. 79. Her style of acting 

and social position, i. 175 note. 
Oldmixon, Mrs. iii. 81. 
Oldys's Life of Raleigh, iv. 158. 
O'Kelly, Mr. v. 436. 
Oliver, Dr. ii. 17. iii. 625. 
Oliver, Isaac and Peter, iii. 439, note. 

Miniatures by them, vi. 173. 
Onslow, George, 4th Baron and 1st 

Earl, v. 315. 339. 
Onslow, Henrietta (Shelley) Lady, v. 

315. 339. 
Onslow, Mary Dowager Lady, v. 357. 
Onslow, Mrs. v. 340. 
Onslow, Thomas, 2nd Baron, i. 593. 
Onslow, Thomas, afterwards 2nd Earl, 

v. 287. vi. 113. 



INDEX. 

OSSORY. 

Opeska, Countess, iv. 157. 
.Vppie, Amelia, authoress, vi. 114 note, 

Opie, John, the painter, sketch of, vi 
113 note. His portrait of Mrs 
Jerningham, 114. Mrs. Delany hi 
friend, 319. His portraits of her 
496, 497. 

Oranse, William, Prince of, i. 429 note 
432. 437. 438. 439. 441. 442. 470 

Orange, Princess of. See Anne, daughtei 
of George II. 

Oratory, Lawson's lectures on, i 
533. 

Orford, Earl of, i. 377 note. 

Orford, George, Earl of, iv. 494. 572. 

Orkney, Anne, Countess of, i. 419 note. 
426 note. 

Orkney, George Hamilton, Earl of, 
80. 403 note. 426. His military 
eminence, ibid. note. 

Orloff, Count, his stature and his dia 
monds, v. 181. 

Ormond, Duke of, i. 404. 409. 426 note. 
iii. 6. 8. 590, note. 

Ormonds, description of the mansion ol 
the, v. 547, 548. 

Ormsby, Miss, i. 393. 

Ormsby, Mr. and Mrs. iii. 50. 87. 94. 

" Orrery," invention of the, i. 403 note. 

Orrery, John, 5th Earl of, 383 note. 
396. 400. 403 and note. 420. 486 
and note. ii. 489. 492. Indignation 
excited in Ireland by his " Remarks 
on Swift," iii. 64. 65. 73. His admi- 
ration for " Stella," 74, 75. Epigram 
on the " Remarks," 79. " Observa- 
tions " on the " Remarks " published 
by Dr. Delany, 279. 286. Both 
works " mauled " by Mr. Deane Swift, 
329. Allusion in Miss Hamilton's 
Diary, vi. 174. 

Orrery, Roger Boyle, Earl of, i. 123 
note. 

Orrery, Lady, ii. 462. 492. 

Osborn, Mrs. iv. 7. 

Osborn, Sir Danvers, iii. 196. His me- 
lancholy end, 258, 259. 

Osborn, Sir George, Bart, v. 360. 366. 

Ossory, Bishops of. See Cox, Dr. 
Michael ; Este, Dr. ; Maurice, Dr. 
Edward ; Pocock, Dr. Richard ; 
Vesey, Sir Thomas. 

Ossory, Lord, ii. 158. v. 195 note. 

Ossory, Upper. See Upper Ossory. 



OBTKRLBY. 

fcrterley House, description o\\ ii. 2, 3. 
ttway, Thomas, Bishop. Killala Ca- 
thedral rehuilt by, i. 357. 

hislev, Miss, "n young Mulenex,' iii. 

110 
hlting, Mrs. death of, and coincidence 
which followed, iii. 5 !_. 
fcford, Bishop of. See Seeker, Dr. 
Thon 

Ion, Lady, i. 104, not 

xt'ord, Edward Barley, 2nd Earl of, 

founder of the "Harleian Collection," 

ote. 70. 104. 603. ii. 20. 27. 

His death, ii. 157, 

158. 

xford, Edward Harley, 3rd Earl of, 
i. 5, ' -. In extremis, iii. 330. 

His death, 339 note. 
xt'ord. 2nd, 3rd, 4th, and 5th Earls of, 
iv. 213 

xford, Robert Harley, Earl of. See 
Harley, Robert. 

. Henrietta Cavendish Holies, 
Countess of, i. 5 note 2 . 104 and 
140. 153. 175. 497. 003. ii. 
L56. L57. 158. 202. 222. 227. 297. 
iii. 273. Her death, 383. Her will, 
&c. 3S5. 430. Magnificence of her 
alterations at Welbeck, 437. 
xford University, i. 77 and note. 212. 
Explanation of the annual " Act," 
412. 

acchiarotti, Gasparo, opera singer, v. 

note. 
acker, Mr. reminiscences of, iii. 402. 
ackiniiton, Lady, popular work as- 
cribed to, iii. 231. 

Irs. i. 153. 101. 544. 
age, Sir Gregory, 1st and 2nd Baronets, 
note. 278, 279. v. 144. 
i'homas, Esq. i. 153 note. 154. 
100. 

aget, Lord, i. 401 note. 
aimer, introducer of the mail-coach 
system, vi. 285. 
aimer, Miss, i. 392. 
aimer, Mr. and Mrs. iii. 355, 350. 
305. iii. 190. 444. 
lalmerston, Henry Lord Temple and 
; Viscount, iv. 403. His second mar- 
riage, 403. 

llmerstou, Viscountess, v. 235 note. 
Pamela," Richardson's novel, ii. 138. 
PART II. — VOL. III. 



nr.x. :»77 

Pendarvsb. 
Pantheon, Oxford Street, iv. 374. Its 

ma piincence, A 17. 
Paoli, Pascal, iv. 275. v. 470. Bis 

career in Corsica, 545 nott . 
Tap, Lady Cowper's receipt for,iv.357. 
Pares, Mr. and .Mrs. i. 272. 

Parismus and Parismenos, romances 

oi; i. 372. 

Park, the, i. 71. 

Parker, Lord Chief Justice, i. 262. 

Parker, Brigadier, i. 318. 

Parker, Lady Elizabeth, iv. 404. 

Parker, Sir Harry, iii. 202. His con- 
nexion with the Hydes, ibid. note. 

Parker, Admiral Sir Hyde, victory of, 
7. 509. 

Parsons, Miss Nancy, v. 237. 

Parsons, Mrs. i. 272. 

Pasquali, Nicolo, violinist and com- 
poser, ii. 552 note. 

Paterson, Colonel, iii. 279. 

Patrick, Symon, Bishop of Ely, v. 75. 

Paul, Captain, i. 020. 

Paulet, Lady Nassau, ii. 525. 

Paulet (or Powlett) Lord Nassau, i. 154 
note 2 . 155. iv. 255 note. 

Paulin, Mr. i. 120. 

Payne, Sir Ralph, iv. 348. 

Peach, Joseph, iv. 443, 448, 458, notes. 

Peach, Mrs. afterwards Lady Lyttel- 
ton, iv. 443. 448 note. 458 note. 

Peark, Mi-, iii. 253. 

Pearson, Miss, i. 338. 

" Peck and Booz," i. 340. 

Peeresses burnt to death. Lady Moles- 
worth, iv. 15, 10. Lady Salisbury, 
iv. 545 note. Lady Effingham, v. 
70. Lady Gower, vi. 251, 252. 

Pelham, Right Hon. Henry, iii. 410 
note. 

Pelham, Miss, iv. 201. 

Pellow, Thomas, history of, iii. 223. 

Pembroke, Earl and Countess of, mini- 
atures of, vi. 173. <t 

Pembroke, Elizabeth (Spencer) Count- 
ess of, iv. 201. vi. 78. 437. See 
Spencer, Lady Elizabeth. 

Pembroke, Henry, Earl of, iii. 351 note. 
398. 

Pembroke, Lady, i. 153. 173. 544. 

Pembroke and Montgomery, Thomas, 
Earl of, i. 130 noti :i . 138 note. 440.' 

Pendarves, Alexander ("Gromio") 
Marv Granville's first husband, i. 22 

2q 



57S 



INDEX. 



Pendarves. 
His figure, habits and personal ap- 
pearance, 23, 24. 34, 35. Mary 
Granville's feeling towards him, 23, 
24. Professed and probable real ob- 
ject of his visit, 23. 24, 25. Proposes 
for Mary Granville's hand, 26, 27. 
Their marriage, 29, 30. 49 note. 
His behaviour to his wife, 35 and 
note. 55 . Visit to Mr. Basset's, 38. 
His warning to his wife, 39. Ridi- 
culed by his nephew, 40. References 
to him in Lord Lausdowne's letters, 
41. 42. 44. 45. His Bill in Parlia- 
ment, 49. His hospitality to Mr. 
Newman ("Carlo") 51, 52. Its 
untoward consequences, 52, 53. His 
death, 107, 108. Tonkin's biogra- 
phic notice of him, 108 note. See, 
also, 61. 63. 83. 85. 86. 89. 92. 94. 
97. 98. 103. 105. 106. 116. 

Pendarves, Margaret (Mrs. Borlase) iv. 
299 note. 

Pendarves, Mrs. (Mary Granville). See 
Granville, Mary. 

Pendarves, Sir William and Lady, i. 
63. 66. Story of Lady P.'s protege 
Miss H— , i. 64—69. Sir William's 
copper coffin, 66. His sister Grace, 
iii. 448 note. 

Pendennis castle, i. 37 note 3 . 

Penn, Lady Juliana (Fermor) iii. 309. 
347. 348. vi. 78. 250. 319. 325 
341. 373. 

Penn, Hon. T. iii, 309 note. 

Peun, William, founder of Pennsyl- 
vania, vi. 40. 

Pennant, Thomas, topographer and 
naturalist, iv. 337. 411. 582. v. 20. 
89. 257. 262. 282. 

Pennyfather, Miss, i. 397. 

" Penseroso," Handel's oratorio of, iii. 
334. 

Pepusch, John Christopher, musical 
composer, i. }£1 note. 

Pepys, Mr. and Mrs. vi. 205. 222. 
355. 

Pepys, Sir Lucas, Baronet, iv. 463 note. 
vi. 342. 343. 

Percival, Hon. John ("Mr. Index" and 
" Sir Dingledy Couch ") i. 295. 301. 
309. 3L0 note. 313. 317. 319. 327. 
332. 335. 427. 457. 477. 534. ii. 
165. 174. 203. 266. 284. 295. 521. 
531. 



Petersham. 
Percival. Joseph, of Stapleton, iii. 450 

note. 451. 
Percival, Lady Catherine, afterwards 

Lady Newborough, iii. 398. 
Percival, Mrs. i. 153. 182. 200. 219. 

223. 227. 228. 275. 316. 342. 369. 

449. 457. 477. 478. ii. 6. 165. 197. 
203. 208. 222. 249. 260. 535. 617. 
iii. 10. 153. 161. 

Percival, Miss, iii. 364. 450. 
Percival family and their connexions, 

i. 213 note. 216. 226. 237. 277. 284. 

299. 454. 472. 508. 531. ii. 281. 

299. 
Percival, Lady, ii. 72. 
Percival peerage, i. 473 note. 
Percival, Samuel, of Clifton, iii. 448, 

450, notes. 

" Percy." See More, Hannah. 

Percy, Dr. Thomas, Bishop of Dromore, 
i. 398. 

Percy, Frances Julia (Burrell) Countess, 
v. 355 note. 

Percy, Hugh Earl, afterwards Duke of 
Northumberland, v. 355. 

Percy, Lady Eliz. afterwards Duchess 
of Somerset, i. 552, 553 notes. 

Percy, Lord Algernon, afterwards Earl 
of Beverley, v. 166 note. 

" Peregrine Pickle," iii. 34. 162. 

" Periander," i. 426. 444. 

Peris;ord pie, adventures of a, iii. 80. * 

Perkins, Mr. iii. 13. 74. 201. 487. 488. 
490. iv. 59. 131. 

Perreaus, the forgers, and their lady 
accomplice, v. 189. 

Perrot, Mr. iii. 481. 

Perry, Alderman Micajah, i. 163. 

Pery, Edmund Sexton, Speaker, Irish 
House of Commons, afterwards Vis- 
count Pery, iv. 87 note. 471. 

Peter the Great, " ye Czar," anecdotes 
of, vi. 156. 157. 

Peterborough, Charles Mordaunt, Earl 
of, i. 70 note 2 . Story of his mar- 
riage with Anastasia Robinson, 72 
—74. See, also, i. 173. 319 note 2 . 

Peterborough, Charles, and Charles 
Henry, 4th and 5th Earls of, i. 611 
note. iv. 65 notes. 

Peterborough, Lady, i. 618. ii. 221. 

Peters, Col. and Mrs. iii. 414. 

Petersham, Charles Lord, afterwards 
3rd Earl of Harrington, v. 287. 



[NDEX. 



►70 



Pktitot. 
Petitot, eminent enamel painter, iii. 

439. 
Petiver, botanical author, iv. 79 note. 
Petre, Anne (Howard) Lady, iv. 2G5, 

v. 388 »<>tv. 
flstre, Anne (Radcliffe) Lady, i. 483. 

5 ' ! 2 
Petre, Lady Mary, i. 613. 615. 
Petre, Mrs. i. 615. 

Robert James, 8th Baron, i. 483 

Metre, Robert Edward, 9th Baron, iv. 

265. v. 

. Mr. "a wretch," iii. 570. 

. Lord Benry (present Marquis 

of Lansdowne) iv. L75 note, 
Peyton, Craven, i. 206 note. 
Peyton family, i. 144 note. 159. 183. 

• 
Peyton, Lady, i. 102 and note 2 . 153. 

165. 208. 533. 587. 
Peyton, Miss, i. 144. Peyton, Mr. i. 

534. Peyton, Mis. i. 151. 159. 209. 

210, 22a , 

Peyton, Sir Thomas ("Tom Titt") i. 

L59. 163. 165. 202. 206. 220.275. 

367. 382. 
■ Peyton's bad equipages," iii. 238. 
fharamond, opera or, L 125 and note. 
r Phebus," manifesto of, iv. 184. 
"Phil/' "Philomel," "Philomela." See 

Donellan, Mrs. 
Philip of Macedon, Leland's Life of, iii. 

"7. 
Philips, John, the poet, parentage and 

death of, i. 152. 
Philippe, Sir Thomas, Bart, letter from, 

i. 13 note. 
Phillips, Con. iii. 181. 
Phillips, John, Esq. of Dublin, iv. 203 

Phillips, Miss, and her £20,000, iv. 132. 
Phillips, T. opera libretto by, i. 125. 
f Primis,'' i. 207. 
Phipps, Constantine, afterwards Lord 

Mnlgrave, ii. 344. v. 162. 
Phn-nix Park, Dublin, glories of, i. 294, 

295. 
Thyrsi s, i. 120. 
Picture sales. Set Bchanb. 
Pierce, Captain, afterwards Sir Edward, 

i. 275. 309. 317. 343. 
Pierrepont Charles, afterwards Earl 

Manvers, iv. 575, note. 



POOOCKB. 

Pierrepont, Ladv Caroline, i. -139. 
Pierrepont, Ladv Evelyn, afterwards 

Lady Gower, i. 557 note, 
Pierrepont, Lady Fanny, afterwards 

Mrs. Meadows, i. 439. 461. 
Pierrepont, William, Viscount Newark, 
iv. 573, note, 

Pierson, Miss, i. 392. 

Pigott, Captain, ami Lord Pigott, iv. 
213. 

"Piggy" (probably a Bellenden) i. 
152. I'M. 173. 182. 214. 21G. 238. 
252. 329. 455. 457. 486. 

JPilkington, Mrs. Letitia, and her hus- 
band (Swift's friends) i. 301. 3<>2, 
303. 315. 327. 335. 336. 347. 473. 
Madam Pilkington, iii. 79. Her 
Memoirs, 312. 

Pinchbeck, Jonathan, maker of fans 
and musical clocks, i. 89. 442. 

Pincushion-sticking, i. 209 note. 

Pine, Mrs. i. 592. 

Pinto, M. and Mad. de, v. 307. vi. 379. 

Piozzi, Mrs. v. 159. 

Pitt, Anne, Lord Chatham's sister, 
" clever and eccentric," iv. 150. 151 
note. 155. 361. 464. v. 403. 405. 

Pitt, Benjamin, sale of conchological 
collection of, iii. 332. 

Pitt, John Lord, afterwards 2nd Earl 
of Chatham, v. 176. 286. 

Pitt, Lady Hester, v. 42. 

Pitt, Mary, Lord Chatham's sister, iv. 
266. 

Pitt, Thomas, of Boconnoc, M.P. after- 
wards Lord Camelford, iv. 263, note. 
303. 306 note 2 . 460 note. v. 113. 
270. 340. 363. 385, 386. 400. vi. 
77. 

Pitt, William, afterwards Lord Chat- 
ham, iii. 313. 455. 458. 463. 482. 
See Chatham, Earl of. 

Pitt, Rt. Hon. William, additional taxes 
imposed in 1784 by, vi. 229. 

" Placidia." See Sunderland, Judith, 
Countess of. 

Planchc, J. 11. on British Costume, i. 
282 note. 

Planta, Miss, Maid of Honour to Queen 
Charlotte, vi. 275. 315. 328. 341. 

Plaxton, Mr. law agent, i. 536, 537. 

Pliny's letters, iv. 8. 

Plowdeo, Francis, Esq. iv. 486, note. 

Pococke, Dr. Richard, Archdeacon of 

2.(2 



580 



INDEX. 



POELEMBURG. 

Dublin, afterwards Bishop of Ossory, 
of Elphin, and of Meath, ii. 402. 
411. 561 note. iii. 625. 627. His 
" Egyptian Dram," iii. 112. 

Poelemburg, cabinet painted by, vi. 
201. 

Pointz. See Poyntz. 

Poker family, amusing interview with 
the, vi. 102, 103. 

Poland, Kins; of, i. 451. iii. 445. 

Pole, Lady 'Sarah, iii. 596. iv. 167. 
Her husband, ibid, notes. 

Polhill of Chepstead, v. 384, 385. 

Polwarth, Alex. Lord, iv. 427. 436. 

Polwarth Barony, iv. 265, note. 

" Polymetis," by Spence, ii. 616. 

Pomeroy, Arthur, Esq. and wife (Mary 
Colley) ii. 197 note. iii. 52. 89. 
118. 

Pomfret, Thomas Fermor, Earl of, i. 
440. ii. 284 note. 294. iii. 309, 348, 
notes, iv. 92, 374 notes. 

Pomfret, Lady, ii. 8. iii. 339. 348. 
473. 495. Her carriage upset, iii. 
349. 

" Pompey the Little," iii. 26. 

Pond, the artist, i. 485, note. iii. 516. 

Ponsonby, Hon. John, Speaker of Irish 
House of Commons, iii. 412. 

Ponsonby, Mr. i. 318. iii. 133. 177. 

Pontack's dining-house, ii. 82. 83. 

Poole, Sir Francis, Bart. iv. 463 note. 

Pope, a self-elected, vi. 379. 

Pope, Alexander, i. 200, 201. 319 
note 2 . 404. 431. 461. 504. 603. 618. 
ii. 2. 139. vi. 177. His fall into 
the river, i. 570. His conduct 
relative to " Atossa," 181, 182. 183. 

Porpora, Niccolo, musical composer, 
Handel's oi3ponent, i. 449 note. 463 
note. 

Port, Frances Anne, sponsors at bap- 
tism of, vi. 131 note. 

Port, George Ptowe (" little Vandyke ") 
Mrs. Delany's great-nephew, vi. 5. 
312. 384. 388, 389. His childish obei- 
sance to Queen Caroline, 5, note. His 
godmother, 49 note. At the Charter- 
house, 448. Died at sea, 388 note. 

Port, Greorgina Mary Anne (Mrs. De- 
lany's grand-niece, " sweet bird ") 
born, iv. 359. v. 406. 408. 411. 
414. 417. 419. 420. 424. 425. 515. 
517. 519. 526. 529. vi. 24. 25. 28. 



Portland. 
90. 106. 135. 269. 278. 280. 29a 
309. 311. 3L5. 323. 328. 341. 344 
345. 357. 365. 369. 391. 393. Hei 
beautiful handwriting, 289 note. 
" Slams the door in the King's face," 
421. 440. Loses her friend Emily 
Clayton, 469. Her grief at the 
death of Mrs. Delany, 480, 481. 
Mrs. Delany's bequests to her, 489. 
491. Letters from her: To her 
father, vi. 250. 386. 429. To her 
mother, v. 416. vi. 274. 336. To I 
Miss Hamilton, vi. 210. 214. 215, 
247. 251. 477. 478. To Mrs. Anne I 
Yiney, vi. 215. 

Port, Mr. John (husband of Mrs. De- 
lany's niece, Mary Dewes) iv. 58. 
237 note. 266. 310. 359 note. v. 
406. vi. 6. His ancestry and rela- i 
tions, iv. 312. 

Port, Mrs. (Mary Dewes, Mrs. Delany's j 
niece) iv. 312. 335. 342. 358. 547. 
v. 80. 417. vi. 138. Emblematic 
souvenir from Mrs. Delany and the 
Duchess of Portland, iv. 323. Birth 
of her first child, 359.. Her children, 
v. 271 note. Mrs. Delany's be- 
quests to her, vi. 486. 491. Letter 
from her to Rousseau, v. 271. 

Portarlington, Caroline, Countess of, i. 
462 note. 

Portarlington, John Dawson, Earl of, v. 
317. 321 note. 334. 

Porteen, Alderman Sir Francis, i. 163. 

Porteen, Miss, i. 307. 

Porter, Mrs. actress, i. 579. Her ex- 
cellence in her vocation, 580. 

Porteus, Dr. Beilby, Bishop of Chester, 
and afterwards of London, v. 286. 
509. 512. 515. vi. 8. 303. 341. His 
visit to the poet Gray's tomb, 357. 
358. Letter from him to Mrs. De- 
lany, vi. 357. 

Portland, William Bentinck, 1st Earl 
of, i. 157 note 3 . 187. 608 note. 

Portland, Henry, 2nd Earl and 1st 
Duke of, i. 291, note. 

Portland, William, 2nd Duke of (" True 
Blue," "Sweet William") i. 104 
note. 482 note. 494 note. 511. 577. ii. 
16. 22. 33. 35. 59. 62. 84. 105. 157. 
158. 180. 182. 183. 202. 233. 236. 
241. 245. 282. 293. 307. 438. 446. 
448. 449. 453. 521. 537. 539. 583. 



Portland. 

ortlaml, William Henry, 3rd Duke of, 

. 37t>. 5 12. ' v. 70. 71'. vi. 

Married, iv. 88. Llobbed, v. 

L39. »r( ministry, vi. L09. 

■'. L28 m (■ . Attentions of hini- 

and Duchess towards Mrs. 1 1 - 

. 276 . ' . Sa Titchfield, Mar- 

i quis of, sou of 2nd Duke. 

I'ortland, Elizabeth (Noel) Duchess 

ridow of Henry, Lsl 

596. Her death, 5 ( ,)7 not . 

1, Margaret Cavendish Harley, 

of, wife of 2nd Duke 

("Maria") i. 5, note. 6. 7, note. 70 

. 74. 104 r, : ; note. 557. 

574. :>77. 587. 589. 595. 596. 

605. 613. 614. ii. 14. L5. 

L6. L8. 20. 21. 22. 23. 25. 27. 31. 

'. 45. 46. 53. 57. 59. 

2. 81. 84. 85. 105. 111. 114. 
1". I. 134. 135. 137. 138. L39 note. 
150. L56. L57. L58. 167. L68. 181. 
L83. 184. 199. 204. 221. 224. 227. 

23 >. 231. 234. 237. 238. 239. 

246. 249. 251. 200. 261. 262. 

270. 281. 2-2. 285. 288. 291. 295. 

301. 332. 391. 398. 420. 421. 

444. 446. 470. 471. 497. 513. 517. 

519. 521. 523. 528. 531. 532. 

534. 530. 537. 539. 551. 563. 

. 621. iii. 11. 13. 34. 70. 73. 

239. 242. 255. 259. 300. 319. 

383. 415. 424. 475. 495. iv. 1. 9. 10. 

53. G4. G8. 74. 79. 89. 91. 97. 

99. 10G. 115. 119. 142. 238. 481. v. 

i 3. 12. 14. 25. 73. 7 ! .». 87. 92. 97. 

98. L02. 110. 130. 155. 187. 190. 

L91. 209. 218. 223. 246. 249. 282. 

305. 324. 339. 341. 353. 351. 

. 372. 375. 377. 378. 

. 410. 412. 414. 417. 

123. 433. 414. 448. 455. 459. 

170. 473. 477. 479. 4 so. 400. 

"31. 546. 578. 579. 584. 

vi. 27.28. 31. 32. 33. 44. 45. 58.59. 

ML 62, 66. 67. 69. 7:;. 7!. 76. 77. 

. L05. L06. L07. L16, 

117. 120. 133. 147. 14S. 149. 154. 

L92. 194. L95. L98. 200. 201. 

2 ■:•. 215. 216. 254. 256. 

11 r nocturnal reading habit, i. 509. 

B10. Her love for collecting, 515 

Her skill in turning, ii. L38. 

228. Increase, with age, of Mrs. 



ixnr.x. 581 

POYNTZ. 

Delany's affection towards her, vi. 95. 
Ber distress ai her son Edward's 
marriage, 124. Her dislike of female 
novelists, L27. Her alleged compli- 
ments to Miss Burney, L35 note. 
Her apprehensions concerning her 
death, L70. Her death, 262. 263, 
264. Cause of her death, 265. Con- 
siderations touching her w ill, 2" I , 
272. Souvenirs bequeathed by her 
to her friends, 272. Bequests in- 
tended for her by Mrs. Delany, 483, 
484. Letters from her: To Cathe- 
rine, Collingwood, afterwards Lady 
Throckmorton, i. 1 81. 494. 509. 
512. 515. 519. 541. 562. 564. 606. 
611. ii. 50.64. 95. To Anne Gran- 
ville, afterwards Mrs Dewes, 1. 607. 
616. ii. L75. 187. 194. To Ber- 
nard Granville, iv. 70. 79. 90. 106. 
To Mrs. Delany, iv. 128. 357. 444. 
v. 253. vi. 222. 224. 226. To 
Miss Dewes, afterwards Mrs. Tort, 
iv. 146. 279. 445. 496. To Miss 
Hamilton, vi. 244. To Miss Port, 
vi. 212. 

Portland, Dorothy (Cavendish) Duchess 
of, wife of 3rd Duke, iv. 542. v. 36. 
49. 50. vi. 274. 300. 384. See 
Cavendish, Lady Dorothy. 

Port Mahon, capitulation of, iii. 427. 

Portmore, Charles Earl of, iii. 210, 
540, notes. 

Portmore, David Earl of, i. 288 note. 

" Porus," opera of, i. 579 note l . 

Potemkin, Prince, v. 238. 

Pott, Mr. the surgeon, v. 475. 

Pouceskin, Madam, iv. 123. 

Poulett, John, 1st Earl, ii. 297 note. 

Poultney, Mrs. See Pulteney, Mrs. 

Powell's puppet-show, i. 1(5. 

Powlett, Lord Nassau. See Paulet. 

Powys, Richard, Esq. v. 471, note. 

Poyntz, Dr. iv. 485. 486. 

Poyntz, Georgiana Anne, afterwards 
Lady Townshend, vi. 443. 

Poyntz, Margaret Georgiana, after- 
wards Hon. Mrs. and subsequently 
Countess Spencer, ii. 353. Her 
character, iii. 340. Her bridal 
jewels described, 399, 400. Her 
marriage, 401, 402. Lady Jlervey's 
jealousy, 402. iv. 2. See Spencer, 
Margaret Georgiana Countess. 



582 



INDEX. 



POYNTZ. 

Poyntz, Mr. of Midgeham, iv. 344. v. 

557. vi. 143 note. 
Poyntz, Mr. afterwards Eight Hon. 

Stephen (Prince William's tutor) i. 

74. 263, 264. 266. ii. 136. His 

death, ii. 635 note. hi. 3. 
Poyntz, Mrs. i. 263, 264. 266. iii. 

303. 333. 352. 382. 385. 401. 427. 

iv. 81. 104. 
Traed, Mrs. iii. 450. 
Pratt, Charles, Attorney-General (after- 
wards Lord Camden) iii. 458. 481. 

His defence of Dr. Delany, 487. 
Pratt, John, of Dublin, i. 547, note. 
Pratt, Mervyn, of Cabra, or Cabaragh, 

" a virtuoso," i. 375. 376. 377. 
Prendergast, Lady, ii. 433. 437. 
Prendergast (Pendergrass) Miss, i. 330. 
Prendergast, Sir Thomas, i. 330 note. 

391. 
Prescot, Captain, elopement of Miss 

Frederick with, iv. 370. 
Prescott, General, taken prisoner, v. 

315, note 3 . 
Prescott, Miss, iii. 272. 299. 350. 358. 

382. 385. 407. 408. 
Prestage, Mr. iii. 421. 
Preston, Mr. and Mrs. (Mary Hamil- 
ton) ii. 481. 497. iii. 14. 22. 24. 

26. 45. 
Preston, young Mr. iv. 172. A happy 

man, iii. 29. Presented to a living, 

156. 
Preston, Mrs. Jun. (Alice Dillon) iii. 

128. 172. Letter from her to Mrs. 

Frances Hamilton, vi. 454. 

re ten 

387. 

Prevo, General, vi. 375. 
Price, Dr. Arthur, Bishop of Meath 

and Archbishop of Cashel, ii. 267. 

567. iii. 140. 153. 
Price, Chase, M.P. death of, v. 229. 
Price, Major, vi. 148. 
Price, Mr. of Epsom, iii. 494. 
Price, Mr. Frank, iii. 166. 183. 594. 
Price, Mr. Keeper of the Bodleian Li- 
brary, v. 465. 
Price, Mr. and Mrs. of Holly Mount, 

iii. 53. 162. 288. 510. 
Price, Uvedale, iv. 348, 493 notes. 
Prideaux, Mr. son of Dean Prideaux, 

courts Mary Granville, i. 456, 457. 

His family and property, 458. 



QlJEENSBERRY. 

Primrose, James Viscount, iii. 24C: 

note. Hugh, Viscount, iii. 470 note. 
Primrose, Viscountess (Miss Drelin- 

court) ii. 443. iii. 470. 473. 475. 

486. 618. iv. 178. Her death, v. 

111. 
Prior's "Kitty." See Queensbury, 

Duchess of. 
Proby, Sir John, afterwards Lord Carys- 

fort, ii. 587 note. iv. 458. 
Propriety, Mrs. Delany's Essay on, 

308—311. 
" Provoked Husband," read by Mrs. 

Siddons before Geo. III. vi. 254, 

255. 
Prowse, Thomas, Esq. iv. 202 note. 
Prussia, Kings of. See Frederick I. and 

Frederick II. 
Puelle, Madlle. Mary Granville's first 

schoolmistress, i. 2. 
Pulteney, Dr. on Ehret, the botanical 

painter, iii. 255. Visits Mrs. De- 
lany, vi. 453. 
Pulteney, Miss Charlotte, ii. 255. 
Pulteney, Mr. and Miss, vi. 119. 
Pulteney, Mrs. i. 219. 543. ii. 82. 
Pulteney, William, afterwards Earl of 

Bath, i. 162. ii. 32. His son, Vis- 
count Pulteney, iii. 283. 
Pulteney, Sir William, i. 418 note. 
Purcell, Henry, the musical composer, 

i. 101. 228. 316. 
Putney ferry, Domesday valuation of, 

i. 243 note. Its fishery, 244 note. 
" Puzzle," i. 180. 183. 196. 198. 200. 

273. 274. 275. 283. 292. 330. 378. 
Pyat, Colonel, i. 32. 
Pye, Mrs. iii. 452. 
Pynsent, Sir William, Bart, munificent 

bequest to Lord Chatham by, and 

motive for same, iv. 340. 

Quadrille, a game at cards, i. 315 note. 

Quebec, storming of, iii. 571. 

Queensberry, Catherine Hyde, Duchess 
of (Prior's " Kitty ") i. 4. 17. 17 note. 
137. 187. 193. 256. 601. ii. 42. 44. 
147. 205. 223. 441. 442. 446. 447 
448. 449. 452. 469. iii. 123. 229. 
303. 320. 350. 415. 427. 428. 431. 
iv. 14. 84. 262 note 8 . v. 11. 13. 
195. 203. 214. Her conduct on her 
exclusion from Court, i. 194. Kft^ 
199 and notes. Anxiety on account 



<^(JEEN8BERRY. 

o\' her sons, iii. 292, 293. 296, 297. 
Her apt reply to Waljiole, iv. t23. 
11 r death, v. 304. Memoirs attri- 
; . to her, vi. L69. 

sherry, William, 1st Duke of, iv. 
\ James, 2nd Puke of, iv. 

Joeensberry, Charles, 3rd Duke of 
;' (husband o\ " Kit t v ") ii. A 12. iii. 
292, 293. 290, 297. 381. 385. 

eny, William, Lord March, 
wards 4th Duke of, iv. 156. 262. 
|>uin. Dr. iii. 254. 

Urine's letters, iv. 290. 
mdcliffe, Lady Anne, i. 483 note. 
|Weigh, Sir Walter, verses by, iv. 158. 
M iture portraits of him and his 
. vi. IT.".. 
' Rambler, The," iii. 276. 
Jiinsay's portrait of Rousseau, iv. 404. 
lamsay, Chevalier, Histoire du Mare- 

chal de Turenne, iii. 181. 
bmsden, Louisa Susan (Ingram) 
Lady, v. 516. 

Len, Sir John, flirting, v. 516. 
hnelagh, sketeh of, ii. 299, 300. 
toelagh, Richard Earl of, i. 347. 

I, picture bv, at the Schaub 
. iii. 497. 
|prohoe, Bishop of. See Barnard, Dr. 
William : T wvsden, Dr. Philip. 
leigh, Mr. C. v. 16. 359. 
Uathdown, Earl of. Ill note. 291 note. 
(iavau.l, Mrs, iv. 123. 133. 136. 187. 
304. v. 350. Letters from her 
to Mrs. Delanv, iv. 222. 308. v. 
190. 

-worth, Anne (Delme') Baroness, 
369. 
Rawdon, Elizabeth (Hastings) Lady, 

iii. 199. 208. 552. 588. 
Rawdon, Francis Lord, afterwards 
Earl of Moira and Marquis of 
Hastings, vi. 442. iii. 208. 523. 
526. 

i, Lady Ann, Lady Ailesbury, 
vi. 473. 

Ir. iv. 11. 
Ravnal, Abbe, v. 307. 
lea, Mrs. letter to Miss Tort from, v. 
495. 

I 'aptain, amateur flutist, iii. 96. 
Read, Lady, ii. 207. 



iXDF.x. 583 

RlDOTTOS. 

Ready, Mrs. iii. 1»;. 

hY;i\ , Miss, murdered, v. 423. 

Rebecca, the imitative painter, vi. 400, 

noU . 
Rebels in [reland, ii. 409. 429. 432. 
Rebuses and riddles, i. 483. ii. 531. 

iv. 26. v. 289, 290. vi. 206. 
Regattas introduction of, v. L36. 
Rembrandt, notices of pictures by, iii. 

495. 551 note. 
Republics, Edward Wortley Montagu 

on rise and fall of, iii. 1 1!'. 
Revel, Miss, or Mrs. iii. 411. 486. 
" Revelation Examined with Candour," 

iv. 28. 
Reynolds, sir Joshua, v. 2G&. vi. 200. 

203. On a crayon of Mrs. Delany's, 

ii. 261. His admiration of her imi- 
tative skill in her llowcr-work, vi. 95. 

Stained glass designed by him, 137. 

Sketch of his career, 322, note. 
Ricciarelli, opera singer, iii. 421. 
Rice, George, Esq, iv. 9 note. v. 408. 

His death, 455. 
Rice, Lady Cecil (Talbot) iv. 9. v. 

408. 455. 
Rich, Lady, i. 452. 454. 457. 467. 
Rich, Miss, ii. 201. Rich, Mrs. vi. 341. 
Rich, Sir Robert, i. 440. 
Rich, theatrical manager, i. 102. 127. 

175 note. 311. 
Richard the First, Handel's opera of, i. 

144. 
Richardson, Jonathan, artist and art 

critic, ii. 615. 
Richardson, Samuel, novelist, ii. 138. 

556. 614. 620. 622. 625. iii. 30. 54. 



60. 65. 74. 89. 163. 253. 257. 280. 

286. 298. 299. 304. 403. 423. 535. 

558. His origin and career, ii. 550 

note. 
Richmond, ice-flood at, iv. 93. Its 

assemblies, 242. 
Richmond, Charles, 1st Duke of, iii. 

317 note. iv. 236 note. Charles, 

2nd Duke, i. 224. 249 note. 441. 

ii. 371 note. iii. 467, 534, 538, notes. 

iv. 76, 464, notes. Charles, 3rd 

Duke, iii. 351. iv. 180. v. 437 

note. 538. 
Richmond, Sarah (Cadogan) Duchess 

of, i. 137. 224. 39] note. 
Ridottos al fresco, why prohibited, iv. 

200 noti . 



584 

RlGBY. 

Rigby, Richard, "the great," iii. 567 
A gallows prepared for him, 577. 

Riley, Farmer, his wife and son, Swift's 
humorous reproof of, i. 602. 

" Rinaldo," opera, i. 102 note. 

Riots : Dublin playhouse, 1764, iv. 
24. " No Popery,'*' London, 1780, v. 
530—534. 

Rivington, Mr. i. 581. 

Roach, Mrs. iii. 48. 65. 85. 93. 

Roads and travelling in Mary Gran- 
ville's days, i. 176. 506. 507. 588, 
ii. 25 note. 

" Roberto." See Twyford, Mr. 

Roberts, Dr. v. 405. Letter from him 
to Mrs. Viney, v. 297. 

Robertson, Dr. William, historian, iii. 
558. 573. 

Robinson, Anastasia, 2nd wife of Charles 
Mordaunt, 4th Earl of Peterborough, 
70 and note. Her treatment of 
General H.'s offer, 72. Her vocation, 
73. Her secret marriage, 73. Occa- 
sion of its publication, 74. 

Robinson, Elizabeth (" Fidget ") after- 
wards Mrs. Montagu, letters from 
her to Miss Donelfan, ii. 93. 132. 
135. To Mrs. Pendarves, or Delany, 
ii. 191. 231. To her sister, ii. 73. 
135. See Montagu, Elizabeth. 

Robinson, George, M.P. why expelled 
from House of Commons, i. 366. 

Robinson, Sir Thomas, ii. 398. His 
mishap, vi. 177. 

Rochefoucauld, Francis de la, iii. 479 
note. 

Rochester, Dean of, vi. 313. 

Rochester, Lawrence Hyde, Earl of, i. 
4. 256. Henry Hyde, 2nd Earl, ii. 
223. 

Rochetti, Signer, opera singer, i. 125. 

Rochford, Earls of, iv. 317. vi. 56. 

Rochfort, Dorothea (Bloomfield) Lady, 
iv. 262. J 

Rochfort, George, Lord, iv. 262 note. 
Rochfort. See Bellfield ; Belvidere. 
Rockingham, Lewis Watson, 3rd Baron 
and 1st Earl of, i. 498. 544, 545. 547 



Rockingham, Thomas Watson, 5th 
Baron and 3rd Earl of, i. 544 note. 
v. 304 note. 

Rockingham, Thomas Watson Went- 
worth, 1st Marquis of,"i. 516 note. 



INDEX. 

Rothes. 

Rockingham, Charles Watson Went- 
worth, 2nd and last Marquis of, iv 
206 note. 339. 

Rockingham, Mary (Bright) Marchion- 
ess of, iv„ 339. v. 143. vi. 138. 

Roden, Robert Jocelyn, 1st Earl of, ii. 
535 note. See Jocelyn. 

Rodney, Admiral Sir George Bridges, 
Bart, defeat of Spanish fleet by, v. 
509, 545, notes. His victory over 
the French, vi. 88. 

Roe, Sir Thomas, i. 245 note 2 . 

Rogers, Mr. i. 592. 

Roland, Mrs. iii. 395. 

Rolle, Mrs. afterwards Mrs. Harris, i. 
96. 456. 

Rollin, the historian, iv. 425. 

Roily, Mr. iv. 25. 

Rolt, Sir John, i. 578 note \ 

Rolt. See Bayntun-Rolt. 

Romaine, Rev. William, iii. 547. 

" Roman Father," the, tragedy of, ii. 
541. 

Romney, Robert, 2nd Lord, i. 219. 

Roos, Lady, ii. 605. 

Roper, Hon. and Rev. Richard, iii. 
469. 

Roper, Mrs. i. 162. 

Roscrow ("Averno") Mr. Pendarves' 
seat, and its environs described, i. 35 
— 37. Its present aspect, 36 note. 
stript, 116. Mrs. Boscawen's visit, 
iv. 297 note. 

Rosingrave, Thomas, organist, iii. 194. 

Ross, Dr. John, afterwards Bishop of 
Exeter, iii. 619. 625. v. 402. 422. 
476. vi. 140. 195. 215. 319. 320. 
325. 341. 419. Mrs. Delany's be- 
quest to him, 487. 

Ross, Elizabeth Lady, wife of George, 
Lord Ross, ii. 559. 

Ross, Frances (Claxton; Lady, after- 
wards Lady Newport, iii. 308. 311. 

Ross, Ralph Gore, Earl of, iii. 351 note. 

Ross, Richard Earl of, iii. 308, 311, 
notes. 

Ross, Sir James and Lady, i. 290 and 
note. 333. 

Rossi, opera libretto by, i. 102 note. 

Rothes, Earls of, iv. 463. 
Rothes, Jane Elizabeth (Evelyn) after- 
wards Countess of, vi. 342. 430. 
Her husbands, iv. 463. vi. 342, 342, 
notes. 



art 



EtOUQKMONT. 

Rougemont, Monsieur, iv. L22. 

Rouseham House, gardens, and 
oolleotion, ii. 221. 223. 

Rousseau, Jean Jacques, iv, 65. 68. 71. 
74. 77. 1"". L06. \. 272 not . 392. 
Bus inattention to dates, iv. 73. 
Character of his writings, 76. 80. 
Quarrelled with Hume, 96. Howitt's 
error regarding his relations with the 
Granvilles and the Duchess of Tort- 
land, 98, 99. Ramsay's portrait of 
him, 404. His " Confessions," death, 
and monument, 419. His residence 
and occupation in Paris, v. 273. 
Mrs. Carter's estimate oi' him, vi. 
Letters from him : To Miss 
Dewes, iv. 311. To Bernard Gran- 
ville, iv. 71. 77. 78. 81. 82. 89. 96. 
98. 113. 121. 139. To the Duchess 
o\ Portland, iv. 97. 419. 

Rowley, pseudo-inventor of the orrery, 
i. I 

Roxburgh, Duke of, i. 204. 

Royalty, an out-door meeting with, iv. 

Royoe, Mrs. iii. 261. 

Rubens, iii. 421. 496. 

Piiidd, Margaret Caroline, accomplice of 

the Perreaus, v. 180. 
Ruspini, dentist, and the Princess 

Dowager of Wales, iv. 377. 
Russel, Colonel, at Fontenoy, ii. 354. 
Russell, Harry, Lord Hillsborough's 

gardener, iii. 498. 510. 514. 
Russell, Lady Caroline, iii. 476. 532. 
Russell, Lord John, afterwards Duke of 

Bedford, vi. 323. His wives, ibid. 

1, Rachel, Lady, iv. 537. 551. 
Rutland, John Manners, 11th Duke of, 

i. 441. iii. 463. 
Rutland, Mary Isabella (Seymour) 

Duchess of, vi. 52. 
Ryder, Dr. John, Bishop of Down, 

afterwards Archbishop of Tuam, ii. 
. 476 note. 479. iii. 85. 
. lire. ii. 320. 
Ryder, Sir Dudley, Attorney-General, 

afterwards Lord Chief Justice, iii. 

168. 172. 419. His premature death, 

431. 
Sabin, Miss, elopement of, vi. 429. 
Sacheverel, Dr. i. 451. 
Sackville, Lady, v. 449. 475. 



[NDEX. 585 

Saltbbubt. 
Sackville, Lady Caroline, afterwards 

Darner, i. 317 note. 332. 345. 
Sackville, Lady Elizabeth, Vioountess 

Weymouth, i. 297 note, 
Sackville, Cord George, subsequently 

Lord George Germain and Viscount 

Sackville, i. 393. 171, 172 notes. 

ii. 56*3 note. His tutor, iii. 85. 

Occasion of his trial, 569. Its re- 
sult, 591. 
Sackville, Cord John, ii. 95. 261. 
Sadlers Wells, origin of, i. 370, 371. 
St. Albans, Charles, Dukes of, i. 44 

. ii. 228. 
St. Albvn, Rev. Lancelot, letters to 

Dr. Delany from, iv. 28—38. Parti- 
culars relating to him, 32, 33. 
St. Andre, the Burgeon, fragment of an 

adventure of, i. 104. 
St. Andre, Nathaniel, Esq. i. 168 note. 
St. Asaph, Bishop of. See Drummond, 

Hon. Robert. 
St. Asaph, George Ashburnham, Lord, 

vi. 294, note. 384. 
St. Asaph, Sophia (Thynno) Lady, vi. 

294. 296. 389. Her early death, 

389 note. 396. 
St. Aubin, Margaret, afterwards Mrs. 

Basset, iv. 300, note. 
St. Aubin, Sir John, i. 433. iii. 450 

note. iv. 300 note. 
St. Davids, Bishop of. See Small well, 

Dr. Edward. 
St. Evremond, M. de, i. 122. 450 note. 
St. George, Sir Thomas, i. 377. 
St. John, Viscount, iv. 519 note. See 

Bolingbroke. 
St. John, Mr. rumoured marriage of, 

iv. 463. 
St. Leger, Miss, ii. 600. 
St. Paul's day and the weather, ii. 

414. 417. 
Sale, John, LL.D. i. 255 note. 
Sal is, Count de, estate belonging to, iv. 

528 note. 
Salisbury, Bishop of. See Drummond, 

Hon. Robert ; Hyde, Dr. Alexander. 
Salisbury, Anne (Tufton) Countess of, 

i. 498. 547. iv. 235 note. 570. 
Salisbury, Dean of, iii. 619. 625. 
Salisbury, Elizabeth (Keet) wife of 

6th Earl of, iv. 570 note. 
Salisbury, James, 5th Earl of, i. 473 

note. iii. 398 note. iv. 570 note. 



586 INDEX. 

Salisbury. 
Salisbury, James, 6th Earl of, ii. 341. 

iv. 570 note. 
Salisbury, James Lord Cranbourn, 

afterwards 7th Earl and 1st Marquis 

of, iv. 545. 557. vi. 355. 360. 
Salisbury, Mary Amelia (Hill) Mar- 
chioness of, burnt to death, iv. 545, 

note. 
Sallis, Mrs. iv. 73. 
" Sally." See Chapone, Mrs. ; Cha- 

pone, Sarah. 
Salmon, Ned, iv. 158. 
Salter, Rev. Dr. Samuel, letter to Mrs. 

Dewes from, ii. 326. 
Samoson, Mr. of Henbury, the " little 

friend," hi. 476. 493. 557. 564. 568. 

604. 
" Samson," oratorio of, ii. 271, note. iii. 

28.177. 
Sanderson, Lady Mary, i, 545. 
Sanderson, Mr. i. 80. 
Sand ford, Daniel, Esq. iii. 275. 280. 

474. 476. 555. 557. His death, iv. 

355, note. 
Sandford, Eev. Daniel, D.D. (husband 

of Sarah Chapone) iii. 480. 483. 486. 

493. 562. 564. 566. 568. 597. iv. 

18. 21. 26. 40. 53. 60. 81. 86. 89. 

103. 144. 153. 161. 163. 248. 291. 

320. 332. His death, 355. His 

sons, ibid. note. 
Sandford, Daniel, afterwards Bishop of 

Edinburgh, iv. 64 (born). 86. vi. 

218, 219 notes. 
Sandford, Mrs. (Sarah Chapone) iv. 26. 

40. 53/60. 81. 86. 89. 103. 144. 

153. 161. 163. 248. 291. 320. 332. 

355. 541. 583. v. 59. 201. 306. 

316. 352. 387. 405. 453. 454. vi. 

48. 224. 227. 251. 256. 266. 319. 

323. B B 341. 348. 356. 404. 420. Be- 
quests by Mrs. Delany to her and 

her sons, 415. Letter from her to 

Mrs. Port, iv. 320. See Chapone, 

Sarah. 
Sandford, John, vi, 323. 337. 341. 347. 
Sandford, William, vi. 341. Letter to 

Mrs. Francis Hamilton, vi. 264. 
Sandoni, Mrs. opera singer, i. 171. 

125. 
Sands, Dr. See Sandys, Dr. 
Sandwich, Edward Earl of, i. 258 note. 
Sandwich, John, 4th Earl of, iv. 216. 

450. 130. 424. 



SCHULEMBERG. 

John, 5th Earl of, iv. 



Sandwich, 

note 5 . 
Sandys, Dr. ii. 59. 61. 64. 203. 228. 

285. iii. 510. 
Santry, Barry, Lord, i. 338 note. 
Santry, Lady, i. 338. 
" Sappho." See Chapone, Mrs. 
" Saul," oratorio of, ii. 279. 284. 541. 
Saunders, Mr. i. 353. 
Saunders, Sir Charles, v. 185. 
Saunderson, Sir William, Bart. i. 220 

note. iii. 614. 
Saurin's History of the Bible, ii. 474. 
Savile, Sir Geo. quite mad, i. 547. 
Savile, Sir George, son of above, iii, 

436 note. 
Sawyer, Miss, iii. 367. 
Saxe, Marshal, at Fontenoy, ii. 355. 
Sayer, Miss, vi. 25. 30. 102. 111. 117. 

229. 369. 465. 
Sayer, Mrs. death of, v. 328. 
Scarborough, Frances, Lady, ii. 147. 

200. 
Scarborough, Ei chard, 1st Earl of. i. 

136 note. Richard, 2nd Earl, i. 80. 

Thomas, 3rd Earl, i. 439. 616. iii. 

250 note. Richard, 4th Earl, iii. 

436. 
Scarletti, Alessandro, musical composer, 

i. 58 note. 
Scarsdale, Caroline, Lady, 210. 540. 
Scarsdale, Francis, Earl of, i. 1, note. 2. 
Scarsdale, Nathaniel Curzon, Lord, iv. 

210. 540 note. 
Sea wen, Bob, i. 150. 
Scawen, Sir Thomas and Lady, family 

miseries of, i. 151. 
Schaub, Lady, immortalized by Gray, 

iii. 496 note. 
Schaub, Sir Luke, i. 563. ii. 261. 270. 

453. Sale of his pictures, iii. 495 — 

497. 
Scheemaker, Peter, the sculptor, iii. 96 

note. 
Schoelcher's " Life of Handel," references 

to, i. 6, note. 57 note. 102 note. 118. 

125 note. 184 note. 472 note. 587 note. 

ii. 38 note. iii. 177. 
" School for Scandal," first publication 

of the, vi. 256. 
" School of Man," iii. 214. 
Schulemberg, Melusinda de, Baroness 

of Aldborough and Countess of 

Walsingham, afterwards Lady Ches- 



IN 

SOBUBM \N. 

terfield, i. 89, note. Set Chesterfield, 
Melusinda Countess o(. 
Bchurman, Anna Maria, " glory o( her 

w \," i. 261. 
Schutz, Augustus, Esq. i. 448 note. 

. bliss, Maid of I [onour to the 
Princess of Orange, i. 148. 
Bchwellenberg, Mrs. Mistress of the 
Robes i" Queen Charlotte, vi. 318. 

Miss, dresser to the Princess of 
Orange, L 1 18, note. 449. 

Mrs. authoress, iii. 115, Her 

works, Qrid, nets. 

Scotland, Robertson's History of, iii. 

568, ^. 

I Sapt afterwards General, iii. 330. 

Francis, Lord Eermitage, i. 168 

. Lady Jane, iv. 63. v. 485. 
Scott, Sir Walter o( Harden, and Lady 

Diana (Hume) iv. 265. 
Scott, Sir Walter, i. 47 note. 601. 

ts, family of the, i. 367. 
Scudamore, Hon. Frances, her parentage 

and issue, i. 166 and note. 
Scudamore, Lady, portrait of, iii. 59 

■not -'. 
Bendery, Madame, i. 261. 363. 
M Sebastian." See Stanley, Sir John. 
Sebright, Sir Thomas, iii. 495. 
Beckendorf, Baron de, vi. 407. 
Seeker, Dr. Thomas, Archbishop of 

Canterbury, i. 610 note 4 , iii. 252. 

486, note." 
Seeker, Mrs. ii. 36. 
Seeker, William, sermon at a wedding 

by, ii. 327. 

jdan chaii 

and 
Sedley, Catherine, mistress of James II. 

i. 157 note 2 . 
Sefton, Charles William, 9th Lord 

Molvneux, 1st Irish Earl of, iv. 156, 

note. 346. 460 not . 
Sefton, Isabella (Stanhope) Lady, iv. 

460. v. 85. 185. vi. 376. 
Selkirk, Charles Douglas, 2nd Earl of, 

i. 191. 3rd Earl, i. 610 note 1 . 
Sellick, Henry, Esq. iv. 33. 
Belwyn, Albinia, married to Sir Wil- 
liam Irby, ii. 245 note*. 
Selwvn, George, iv. 47. On the King 

of Denmark's vagaries, 188. 
"Semele," Handel's composition so 



DBS. 587 

Shki r.ruNK. 

called, ii. 264 and note. 260. 266. 

2(17. 
Senesino,or Serosini, opera Binger ( Fran- 
cesco Bernardi) i. 57, and nob '-. 

L29. l 19. IT;), isi. 463 note. 578. 
"Sensibility." See More, Hannah. 
Serpentine, inundation of the, iv. 164. 
''Servant," change in the signification 

of the word, i. is;;. Lady's maid's 

wages in 174-1, ii. 297, 298. 
Servants, characteristic letters from, ii. 

381. 382. 403. 
Sevigne', Madame de, i. 236. 280. ii. 

L35, 427. iii. 54. 213.412. v. 87. 

435. 
Seward, Anna, authoress, i. 463. 464. 

iv. 423 note. 
Seward, Thomas, Canon of Lichfield, i. 

461. Mystified by Horace Walpole, 

463, 464. 
Seymer, Henry, Esq. iv. 444. 
Seymour, Sir Edward, i. 425 note. 
Seymour, Lady Betty, i. 439. 
Seymour, Lady Charlotte, ii. 518. 
Seymour, Miss Helen, death of, i. 425. 
Shad well, Dr. i. 464. 
Shaftesbury, Lord, i. 457. 
Shagreen, a silk fabric, i. 177 note. 
Shakespeare's statue in Westminster 

Abbey, Pope's burlesque translation of 

a proposed Latin inscription for same, 

ii. 139. His " Winter's Tale," iii. 

406. Jubilee at Stratford, iv. 241. 

Garrick's Shakespeare Temple, 284. 
Shannon, Henry Bovle, Earl of, iii. 

412. His death, iv. 41. v. 314 

note. His son Robert, iv. 571. 
Shannon, Richard Boyle, Viscount, 

iv. 10 note 6 . 
Shannon, Richard, 2nd Earl of, vi. 381. 

His political eminence, ibid. note. 
Sharp, Miss, vi. 112. Her marriage 

with Dr. Beauvoir, 118, 119. 
Sharp, Mr. iii. 235. 247. 256. 
Shaw, Dr. physician, ii. 61. 81. 85. 
Shaw, Dr. occasion of an impromptu 

by, iii. 423. 
Shaw, Dr. Thomas, the traveller, ii. 

516. 516 note. 524. 527. 530. 533. 
Shebbeare, Dr. political novel by, iii. 

321, note. 
Sheffield, Miss, iv. 123. 
Shelburne, Earl of, i. 610 note 2. 
Shelburne, Lady, i. 278. 



588 INDEX 

Shelburne. 

Shelburne, John Earl of, iii. 368 note. 
548. 554. 

Shelburne, Mary (Fitzmanrice) Lady, 
wife of John, Earl, iii. 368. 369. 

Shelburne, Sophia (Carteret) Lady, 1st 
wife of William, 2nd Earl, iv 94. 
175. 265. 499. 

Shelburne, W. 2nd Earl of, afterwards 
Marquis of Lansdowne, iv. 94, 175, 
notes. 265. 523, note. v. 333. 340. 
342.350. vi. 109. 174.319. His 2nd 
wife, see Fitzpatrick, Lady Louisa. 

Sheldrake's Herbal, iii. 572. 

Shelley, Catherine (Scawen) Lady, fate 
of, i. 151. 

Shelley, Mrs. iv. 136. 258. 304. v. 387. 

Shelley, Richard, Esq. and daughter, 
iv. 152 note. 

Shelley, Sir John, v. 315, 339, notes. 

Shenstone, William, poet, iv. 443 note. 

Shepherd, Isabella Ingram. See Beau- 
champ, Lady. 

Sheridan, Mrs. (Miss Linley) wife of 
R. B. Sheridan, iv. 585. 

Sheridan, Dr. Thomas (Swift's friend) 
humorous verses ascribed to, iii. 499. 

Sheridan, Thomas, the actor (son of 
above) ii. 424. 616. iii. 80. 499. 
527 note. His readings, vi. 229. 

Sheridan, Richard Brinsley, " en Sena- 
teur," vi. 229. His "School for 
Scandal," 256. 

Sheridans, the three, ii. 423 note. 

Sherlock, Dr. Thomas, Bishop of Salis- 
bury, and afterwards of London, ii. 
398. His remark on Bishop Clayton's 
book, iii. 111. 

Shields, Mr. vi. 341. 

Shipley, Dr. William Davies, Dean of 
St. Asaph, iii. 272. vi. 240. 

Shipley, Miss, iv. 186. 467. 

Shipley, Mrs. iii. 272. 

Shirburne, Sir Nicholas, L 522. 

Shirley, Hon. Laurence and Rev. 
Walter, iv. 203 note. 

Shirley, Lady Fanny, i. 141. 

Shrewsbury, Duchess of, i. 157. 

Shuckborough, Dr. iii. 546. 

Shuckborough, Mrs. iv. 448. 

Shuttleworth, Mrs. i. 331. 423. 470. 
iii. 153. 161. 236. 243. 

Sibthorp, Dr. John, botanist, vi. 476. 

Siddons, Mrs. vi. 128. 231. Her read- 
ings before royalty, 254, 255. 



Smith. 
Sidney, Sir Philip, ii. 191, 192. v. 64. 
" Sigismunda," occasion of Hogarth's, 

iii. 496 note. 
" Silent Lover/' Raleigh's, iv. 158, 159. 
Silvester, Mr. iii. 327. 
Simmons, Mr. Mary Granville's music 

master, i. 58. 530. 
Singleton, Captain, and Lady Mary 

Cornwallis, elopement of, vi. 321. 
Singleton, Henry, Irish Lord Chief 

Justice, ii. 555. 557. 
" Sir Charles Grandison," Richardson' 

novel of, iii. 239. 242. 244, 245. 251. 

252. 257. 265. 329. 
Skeffington, Mrs. married to Sir Thorn* 

Peyton, i. 367 note. 
Skerret, Maria. See Walpole, Lady. 
Skin, Mr. i. 156. 162. 237. 
Skipworth, Lady ("Patch Nose") i. 

513. 
Skynner, Stephen, and daughter, 

214 note. 
Sloane, Sir Hans, i. 125 and note. 285. ii 

266 note. iii. 201. 255. v. 507, note 3 . 
Sloper,Mr. with Mrs. Cibber's daughter, 

at a Bath ball, iii. 606, 607. 
Smallwall, Mr. Lord Titchfield's tutor, 

iii. 441. 
Smallwell, Dr. Edward, Bishop of St. 

David's, vi. 448. 
Smallwell, Mr. iv. 11. 
Smelt, Mr. (preceptor to George, Prince 

of Wales) v. 380. 400. 407. 511. 515. 

vi. 319. 320. 321. Mrs. Delany's 

regard for him and his wife, 428, 429 
Smith, Father, organ builder, organ 

built by, iii. 405. iv. 568. 
Smith, Hugh, Esq. and daughter, iv. 

344 note 6 . 
Smith, John, and his daughter Mar- 
garet, iv. 418, note l . 
Smith, John Thomas, on Lincoln's Inn 

Fields Theatre, i. 126, 127. 
Smith, Miss, iii. 454. 611. 626. iv. 55. 
Smith, Mr. iii. 46. 68. 
Smith, Mr. the " despairing sailor," iii. 

366. 382. 407. 412. 414. 470. 493. 

iv. 55 note. 
Smith, Mr. afterwards Sir Culling, 

367. 
Smith, Mrs. Mary, of Kentish Town, 

v. 354. 355. 426. 522. 
Smith, Thomas Ashton, and his 

daughter Penelope, iv. 418, note 3 . 



INDEX. 
Smollett. 

Smollett, Tobias, novelist, on the rage 
for Lotteries, ii. 6, 7. His " Pere- 
grine Pickle," iii. 34. L62. His 
• ant Fathom," 216. 220. 223. 

Smyth, Mr. letter to Bernard Gran- 
ville from, iii. 549. 

Smyth, Right Hon. John, v. 369 note. 

Smvthe, Lord Chief Baron, and Lady, 
iv. t78. v. L29. 

Pmythe, sir George, of Maydford, i. 
11 1 

|mythe, Sir Sydney Stafford, iv. 345. 
v. 384, His death, 396. 

imythe, Lady, wife and afterwards 
widow o( sir Sydney, iv. 345. v. 
I. 492. vi. 51. 
L13. 

hell, Mr. and Miss Phillips,!?. 132. 

Bneyd, John, and Penelope his wife, iv. 
58 ■"/(. 

Snevd, Ralph, and Penelope his wife, 
iv. 2] 

Bneyd, Mr. and Mrs. iii. 545. v. 211. 

Snow, Mr. a "second Handel," v. 4S6. 

fcolander, Dr. Daniel Charles, botanist, 
iv. 372, v 365. 366. His 

death, vi. ( .)0. An admirer of Mrs. 
Delany'8 flower mosaics, 95. 

Soldi, Andrea, painter, iii. 359. 403. 

Somerset, Algernon, 7th Duke of, after- 
wards Duke of Northumberland, i. 
467, note. ii. 332. 

Somerset, Charles, 6th Duke of, i. 467 
.584 ote -. 
erset, William, Duke of, i. 99. 

Somerset, Charlotte (Finch) Duchess 
of, iii. 584 note -. 

Somerset, Elizabeth Percy, Duchess of, 
i. E 

Somerset, Mary (Webb) Duchess of, 
iii. 246. 620. 

Somerset, Lady Anne, iii. 349. 364. 

Somerset, Lady Anne Elizabeth, birth 
of, vi. 376. 

Somerset, Lady Elizabeth, afterwards 
Talbot, vi. 31 

Somerset, Lady Frances, Elizabeth, vi. 
396. 

Somerset, Lady Harriet Isabella, after- 

' wards wife of Colonel Mitchell, v. 
323. 324. 369. vi. 

Somerset, Lady Henrietta, wife of Sir 
W. Williams YYyim, iv. 225. 230. 

rwU *. 



589 
Spbnceb. 
Somerset) Lady Mary Isabella, after- 
wards Marchioness o\' Granby, iv. 

L31. v. 88. L15. L56. 175. 178. 

Married, L92. 
Somerset, Lord Arthur, vi. 870. 
Somerset, Lord Charles Henry, iv. 252 

note. vi. 39. 
Somerset Bouse, notice of, i. 12;') note*. 
Somerville, Sir William, i. 898. 
Sondes, Edward Watson, Viscount, i. 

547 note. iv. 47, note. 235 note. 
Sondes, Lewis Watson, Viscount, v. 

304 note. 
Sophia, Princess, daughter of George 

111. vi. 58. 7(>. 1 t8. 387. 
Sophocles, Franeklin's translation of, 

iii. 575. 
Sosarme, Handel's opera of, i. 463. 466. 
South, Dr. his sermons and career, i. 

450, 451. 
Southampton, General Charles Fitzroy, 

1st Baron, vi. 143. 
Southby, Mrs. i. 327. 395. 401. 
Southcote, William, Esq i. 418 note. 
" South Sea lady," a, i. 59. 
Southwell, Lady Betty, vi. 321. 
Southwell, Lady, i. 449. 
Southwell, Master Edward, afterwards 



Baron dc Clifford, iv. 9. 388. v. 131. 
Southwell, Mr. i. 238. 318. ii. 257. 

541. iv. 47 note. 
Southwell, Mrs. i. 339. ii. 536. iii. 

266. iv. 9. Her death, 47. 
Southwell, Miss Biddy, i. 397. 
Southwell, Lords, i. 397 note. 
Spain, cause of declaration of war 

against, ii. 43 note. 
Sparr, Baron, i. 556. 
Sparrow, Miss, iv. 393. v. 86. 111. 

160. 209. 477. 526. 
Sparrow, Mr. afterwards Port, iv. 58 

note. 
Speed, Miss. See Virey. 
Speke, George, Esq. iii. 336 note. iv. 

9 note. 
Speke, Miss, afterwards Lady North, 

iii. 336. See North, Anne, Lady. 
Spen, Miss, i. 609. 
Spence, Joseph, anecdotist, works by, 

ii. 616 note. iii. 551. 
Spencer, Dr. John, Dean of Ely, iv. 33. 
Spencer, Edward, i. 610 note. 
Spencer, Hon. John, father of 1st Earl 

Spencer, i. 427 note. 430. 435. 



590 



INDEX. 



Spencer. 
Spencer, Hon. John, afterwards 1st Earl, 

i. 427 note. iii. 303. 305. 319. 334. 

340. 427. 455. 598. iv. 2. 54. 55. 

8i: 84. 94. 126. 138. 18G. v. 312. 

439. 484. 507. 529. 581. 
Spencer, George John, 2nd Earl, vi. 

165. 
Spencer, Lady Caroline, vi. 110. 
Spencer, Lady Diana, iii. 398. Her off- 
hand match with Lord Bolingbroke, 

465. Its upshot, ibid. note. 
Spencer, Lady Elizabeth (afterwards 

Lady Pembroke) iii. 351. 398. 
Spencer, Lady Georgiana (Carteret) 

afterwards Countess Cowper, i. 431. 

435. 466. 468. 558. ii. 28. 148. 200. 

431 note. 452. 487. 488. iv. 2. 

See Carteret, Georgiana ; Cowper, 

Georgiana, Lady. 
Spencer, Lady Georgiana, afterwards 

Duchess of Devonshire, iv. 403. 587. 

593. See Devonshire, Georgiana, 

Duchess of. 
Spencer, Lady Harriet. See Duncannon, 

Countess of. 
Spencer, Lady Mary, i. 100 note. 
Spencer, Margaret Georgiana (Poyntz) 

Countess, iii. 399. 403. 408. 410. 

413. 420. 463. 485. 486. 534. 566. 

iv.54. 55. 81. 84. 94. 126. 138. 186. 

556, 557 notes, v. 103. 312. 439. 
• 475. 484. 485. 507. 576. vi. 165. 

268. 319. 341. 356. 393. Her 

exemplary conduct in Lady Cowper's 

last illness, v. 559. 561. Letter from 

her to Mrs. Port, iv. 357. See 

Poyntz, Margaret Georgiana. 
Spencer, Miss, married to the Duke of 

Hamilton, i. 613. 
Spenser, Edmund, ii. 192. 
Spiders, medicinal use of, ii. 274. 
" Spiritual Quizote, The," iv. 461. 
Spry, Jenny, iii. 450. 
Stafford, Mr. i. 576. 
Stage entertainments, Rev. W. Law's 

book against, iii. 541. 
Stainforth, Mrs. v. 86. 414. 521. 
Stair, Eleanor, Countess of, iii. 249. 
Stamford and Warrington, George 

Harry, 5th Earl of, ii. 85 note. iii. 

240. v. 81. vi. 135. 
Stamford, Henrietta (Bentinck) Countess 

of, wife of above, iv. 108. 131. 154. 

220. 229. 282. v. 81. 86. 92. 98. 



Stanley. 

195. 320. 407. 409. 410. 411. 412. 

414. 449. 514. 531. 584. vi. 135. 

275. 319. 354. 355. Letters from 

her to Mrs. Delany, v. 290. 483. 

vi. 62. 268. 283. 293. 298. 310. 332. 

389. 423. Mrs. Delany's bequest to 

her, vi. 484. 
Stanhope, Charles, Lord Mahon, 3r 

Earl of, v. 42. 63. 78. 
Stanhope, Eugenia (" Miss Peters " 

paramour and wife of Lord Chester 

field's son, v. 28. 30. 
Stanhope, Lady Harriet, afterwards wife 

of Thomas, 2nd Lord Foley, v. 115. 

185. 189. See Foley, Lady Harriet. 
Stanhope, Lady Isabella (" daughter 

Bell") iv. 156. See Sefton, Isabella, 

Lady. 
Stanhope, Lady Lucy, iii. 605. 
Stanhope, Miss, i. 330. 
Stanhope, Mr. i. 557. iii. 348. 
Stanhope, Philip, 2nd Earl, iii. 605, 

note. 
Stanhope, Sir Thomas, of Shelford, iv. 

312 note. 
Stanhope, Sir William, ii. 554. 
Stanihurst, James, Speaker of Irish 

House of Commons, i. 225. 
Stanley, Anne, Lady, Mary Granville's 

aunt (" Valeria ") wife of Sir John 

Stanley, i. 2. 3. 8, 9. 10. 11, 12. 16. 

32, 33. 58. 71. 82, 83. 97. 108. 109. 

110. 111. 112. 121. 124. 130. 133. 

140. 163. 176 ("my aunt"). 177. 

187, 188. 201. 202. 206. 208. 210. 

211. 213. 214. 222. 235. 239. 244. 

393 note. 458. 601. Her death, i. 

238. 241. Letter from her to her 

niece, Anne Granville, i. 235. Her 

death, i. 238. 241. 
Stanley, Colonel, i. 69 note 2 . 100. 
Stanley, Elizabeth, Lady, wife of James, 

12th Earl of Derby, v. 53. 
Stanley, Hans, Sir Hans Sloane's grand- 
son, suicide of, v. 507. 
Stapleton, Mrs. v. 400. vi. 395. 
Stanley, James Lord, afterwards 12th 

Earl of Derby, fete at the villa of, 

v. 1. 4. His love match at an end, 6. 
Stanley, Lady, notices of a portrait of, 

v. 105. 106. 107. 
Stanley, Lady, wife of Sir Edward, iii. 

607. 
Stanley, Mr. afterwards Sir Edward, 



:o 

; 



inokx. 

St un r.v. 
i. 130. 142. L50, ITS note, 207. 257. 
260. 274. 446. 447. 607. ii. 6. 98. 
372. 178 note, in, L80, L86. 607. 

tunley, Mrs. i. 647. 
oley, Sir John (" Sebastian") Mary 



591 



no. 


111. 


1 1 5. 


123. 


ISO. 


L33. 


L52. 


L63. 


in;:. 


176. 


L79. 


is;*,. 


L94. 


21 1 1 . 


213. 


.)•>.) 


238. 


•J 1 1 . 




259, 




272. 


273. 


28 1 . 




349. 


423, 


485. 


445. 


446. 


163. 


154. 


457. 


158. 


466. 


467. 


i::>. 


1-1. 


188. 


491. 


492. 


498. 


506. 


6< '7 


note. 


:»> e. 


533. 


534. 



Granville's uncle, i. 2. (i l .». 87. L09. 

110. 
1S7. 

257. 

308. 
449. 
472. 
501. 

537. 

651 note. 567. 57(1 575. 57S. 584. 
686. 589, 601. 612. 620. ii. 4. 5. 

22. 23. 26. 11. 46, 47. 54. 58. 80. 

'.'7. 135. 182. 1!»7. 201!. 213. 218. 

222. 235. 25;;. 257. 260. 268. 272. 

His death and will, ii. 332. 333. 343. 

315. Letter from him to Mrs. Pen- 

darvee, i. 87. Lord Bolingbrokc's 

drunken visit to him, vi. 168. 
tanlev, Sir Thomas, i. 290 note. 
tanley, YV. i. 1G7. 179. 183. ii. 46. 
fcannard, Mr. iii. 157. 220. 
tapleton, Mrs. v. 400. vi. 395. 
teele, Sir Richard, i. 403 note. 450, 

note. ii. 453 note. iii. 176. 

Stella," Swift's, Lord Orrery's re- 
marks on, iii. 74. 330. 
Stella." . See Walsingham, Lady. 
tephen's Green, Dublin, described, i. 

300 and note. 
terne, Dr. John, Bishop of Clogher, 

death of, iii. 364. 367. 
terne, Laurence, remarks on the 

" Tristram Shandy " of, iii. 588. 

593. His sermons, 602. 
tewart, Lady Susannah, iv. 358, note. 
tewart, Mr. lends Carlo Maratti's 

"Transfiguration" to Mrs. Delany, 

iii. 130.169. 175. 
tewart, Sir James, i. 609 note 3 . 
tewart, Sir John, i. 3, note. 
tillincnYet, Mr. ii. 30. 
tocks Market, site of, ii. 83, 84. 

, Bishop of Derry, 

afterwards Archbishop of Armagh, 

Primate of Ireland, ii. 468. iii. 24. 

15 1. 229. iv. 3!». 41. On bad terms 

with the Speaker, iii. 109. 117. 
tone, Mrs. (sister of above) ii. 563. 

iii. 94. 154. 229. 282. 



Stuabt. 
Stone, Mr. iii. ;'»iti. 

Stonehouse, Sir John, i. 557 note, 

Stonor, Miss, i. 497. 512. :A[\. 520. 
Stopford, Or. iii. 201. 

Storer, Anthony, \ . .". 10. 
Storer, Mrs. vocalist, ii. 115, 116. 
Stormont, David Murray, 7tli Viscount, 
afterwards 2nd Earl of Mansfield, iii. 

303. 172. ~^[). iv. 462 note, v. 27. 

103. 111. vi. 52. 247. 324. 
Stourhead, Sir R. C. Hoare's seat, vi. 

140, 141. 
Stow, Miss, musical precocity of, vi. 20. 
Stow, Mr. i. 418. 
Stow, the " uncomfortable glories " of, 

vi. 100. 
Strada, Signora, opera singer, i. 184 

and note. 454. 457. 458. 463 note. 

508. 534. ii. 140. 
Stradwicke, phlebotomist, iv. 124. 
Strafford, Ann (Campbell) Countess of, 

i. 159. ii. 26. v. 446. 
Strafford, Thomas Wentworth, Earl of, 

i. 159 note. 
Strafford, William Wentworth, Earl of, 

iii. 351. iv. 242. v. 446, notes. 
Strahan and Co. sum paid to Dr. 

Hawkesworth by, for editing Cook's 

Voyages, iv. 372. 
Strange, James, Lord, ii. 51. iv. 344. 
Strange, Lucy (Smith) Lady, i. 344 note. 
Strange ways, Thomas, i. 610 note. 
Strangford, Philip, Lord, and Mary 

(Jephson) Lady, iii. 113. 
Stratford, Dr. iii. 378. 
Stratford, Lady, ii. 31. 
Strathmore, Mary Eleanor (Bowes) 

Lady, v. 237. 
Stratton, George Frederick, Esq. of Tew 

Park, and his wife Anne, only daur. 

of Bernard Dcwes, v. 376 note. 
Stringer, John, Esq. i. 129 note. 204 

note. 516 note. 
Strode, William, Esq. v. 398 note. 
Stroud, Lady Anne, iii. 154. 
Stuart, Charles, afterwards Lord Stuart- 

de-Bothesay, i. 462 note. vi. 398. 
Stuart, Dr. iii. 519. 
Stuart, Hon. Charles, v. 404. 
Stuart, Hon. Frederick, i. 462 note. 
Stuart, Hon. William, afterwards Arch- 
bishop of Armagh, i. 462 note. 
Stuart, Lady Anne, divorced wife of 

Earl Percy, v. 355 note. 



592 



INDEX. 



Stuart. 
Stuart, Lady Augusta, iv. 344 note 3 . 
Stuart, Lady Caroline, afterwards Lady 

Portarlington, i. 462, note. v. 168. 

317. 321 note. 326. 334. 335. 336. 

341. 457. 
Stuart, Lady Jane. See Macartney ,Lady. 
Stuart, Lady Louisa, i. 339 note. 462 

note. v. 168. 335. 542. 546. vi. 

135. 331. 332. 359. 437. 
Stuart, Lady Mary or Margaret, iii. 351 

notes. 445. 
Stuart, Miss, and her mother, iii. 532. 

579. 
Stuart- Wortley, James, i. 462 note. 
Sturgeon, Mr. appearance of, iii. 503. 
Sudley, Lord, iii. 599. 
Suffolk, Mrs. Howard, subsequently 

Countess of, i. 138. 140. 
Suffolk, Catherine (Graham) Countess 

of, iii. 368. 397. 
Suffolk, Charlotte (Finch) Countess of, 

v. 322 note. Loses her husband, 

415. See, also, v. 418. 419. 456. 
Suffolk, Elizabeth (Kingscote) Dowager 

Countess of, vi. 376. 
Suffolk, Henry, 10th Earl of, iii. 173. 

181 note. 
Suffolk, Henry Howard, 11th Earl of, 

iii. 368. 397 notes. 468. 
Suffolk, Henry Howard, 12th Earl of, 

iii. 176, note. 478. 583. iv. 10 note". 

48. 59. 119. 148. 323. 350. 443. v. 

73. 255. 257. 322. 360. 363. 412. 

His death, 415. 
Suffolk, Mary (Trevor) Countess of, iv. 

59. 
Suffolk, Sarah (Iniven) Countess of, 

afterwards Lady Falkland. See 

Falkland, Lucius Cary, Viscount. 
Sullivan, vocalist, ii. 271, 293. 
Sully's " Memoires," iii. 482. 
Sunday observance circa 1729, i. 205. 
Sunderland, Eobert, 1st Earl of, i. 100. 
Sunderland, Charles, 3rd Earl of, i. 4 

note. 41 and note 2 . 99 note. iv. 2. 
Sunderland, Eobert, 4th Earl of, i. 137. 

192. 220. 
Sunderland, Charles, 5th Earl of. See 

Marlborough, Charles, 2nd Duke of. 
Sunderland, Judith Countess of (" Pla- 

cidia" and "Lady Sun") i. 4 and 

note 2 . 80 and note. 97 note. 99 and 

note. 107 and note. 117. 144. 148. 151. 

153. 154. 161. 162. 166. 172. 185. 



Swift. 

191. 199. 208. 212. 213. 219. 220. 

239 note. 273. 283. 301. 304. 313 

note. 326. 344. 362. 365. 366. 431. 

437. 438. 444, 448. 454. 457. 466. 

472. 476. 479. 491. 492. 500. 531. 

535. 566. 586. 587. 592. 593. ii. 5. 

24. 31. 40. 46. 82. 167. 168. 182. 

198. 208. 222. 225. 228. 236. 277. 

284, 343. 446. 447. 604 note. iii. 

194. 332, 438, notes, iv. 193. 
Sundon, Lady, formerly Mrs. Clayton, 

i. 320. 
" Superba." See Granville, Elizabeth. 
Suraja Dowla, Clive's victory over, iii. 

483. 
Suspended animation, case of, i. 125. 
Sussex, Henry Yelverton, 3rd Earl of, 

iv. 564 note 2 . v. 170, 171, notes. 
Sussex, Hester (Hall) Lady, v. 170. 

173, 174. 
Sussex, Lady, i. 138. 
Sutherland, Elizabeth, Countess of, 

wife of George Granville, Lord Gower, 

afterwards Marquis of Stafford and 

Duke of Sutherland, vi. 373. 
Sutton, Miss ("Sut," "Belle Amie ") 

daughter of Sir R. Sutton and Lady 

Sunderland, i. 387. 444. 448. 457. 

ii. 5, 6. 24. 81. 168. 229. 235. 447. 

521. 537. iii. 21. 56. 61. 91. 94. 

129. 271. 272. 284. 286. 332. 438. 

" Has now 10,0002." iv. 191. Her 

death, iv. 193. 
Sutton, Mr. ii. 82. 
Sutton, John, son of Sir Robert, iii. 

332 note. 
Sutton, Richard, son of Sir Robert, ii. 

447. 521. iii. 332, 438 notes. 
Sutton, Sir Robert, i. 4 note 2 . 100 and 

note. 142. 174. 211. 258. 289. 313 

note. 326. 344 note. 362. ii. 82. 222 

229. 277. iii. 332, 438 notes. Cause 

of his expulsion from the House of 

Commons, i. 366. 
Swainson, Mr. naturalist, vi. 223. 
Swift, Jonathan, Dean of St. Patricks, 

i. 148. 301. 303. 304. 319 note 2 . 

320. 322. 323. 326. 334 note. 336. 347. 

383. 396. 398. 400. 402. 404. 407. 

413. 418. 433. 443. 448. 517. 518 

note. 566. 599. ii. 158. 180. 318. 

397. 398. vi. 288. 289. Anecdotes 

of him, i. 601 — 603. His way of tra- 
velling in youth, ii. 25 note. Orrery's 



Sw iM.ruM'.. 
marks" on his life and writings, 
iii. 64. 65. 7.".. 74. 79. Proposed mo- 
nument to him, 80. His legacy to .Mrs. 
r, 206. Dr. Delany's reply to 
Y, 279. : Mr. Dean 

s Essay on his Life, &c. 327. 
Stella's verses to him, 330, 331. 
> on Del vi lie erroneously attri- 
buted to him, 499. Mrs. Delany's com- 
plaint, iv. 77. L66. Walpole's remarks, 
\. "' ,; 7. Letters from him to Mrs. 
Pendarves (Mary Granville) i. 501. 
>50. To sir John Stanley, L 575. 
winburne, Mrs. vi. 356. 
iwindling adventurer, exploits of a, v. 
-73. 
or Sioan, Mrs. i. 301. 304. 
of her son, 304. 
ydall, Dr. Elias, Bishop of Glouoes- 

. 357. 
Bylvia." Set Donellan, Mrs. 
foge, Dr. Edward, Archbishop of 
m, author of "The Gentleman's 
Religion,*' iii. 87. 

Dr. Edward, son of the above, 
Bishop of Elphin, iii. 87. 118. 234. 
tera written by him, 561. 
i hr. Nicholas, Bishop of Killaloc, 
ii. 402. 

Charles, Lord, Lord Chancellor, 
i. 609 note 1 . 
albot, Edward, Esq. i. 610 note. 

Mary (de Cardonnel) Countess, 
iii. 602. 
albot, Miss Catherine, i. 570. 580. 

618. ii. 240. iii. 266. 486. 
albot, Mr. i. 447. iii. 92. 100. 161. 
iv. 137. 
. Mr. John, iii. 447. 
albot, Mrs. ii. 36. iii. 266. 486. iv. 

albot, William, 1st Earl, iii. 602 note. 
te. iv. 9 note*. King of 
Denmark's souvenir, 188. 

, Lady Catherine, i. 009 note*. 
., Lady Harriot, i. 419 note. 
lalma&h. See ToUemache. 
ame, John, builder of Fairford 
I church, v. 9. 
imerlane, opera of, i. 101. 
ancred, Sir Thomas, iv. 418. 
imkerville, Charles, 2nd Earl of, ii. 
■>te 4 . 

PART II. — VOL. III. 



i\di:x. 593 

TllANKT. 

Tankerville, Emma (Oolebrooke) 

Countess o\\ v. 
Tarrand, Mrs. iii. 122. 
Tar-water. Set Berkeley, Dr. George, 

Tat ton, Miss, " that was." Set Ash- 
brook, Viscountess. 
Tatton, Miss, death of, vi. 81. Cause 

of death, 36. 
Tatton, Mrs. i. 566. ii. 136. 
Tatton-Egerton family, v. 565 note. 
Taverner, Mrs. death of, i. 79. 
Tavistock, Francis, Marquis of, acci- 
dental death of, iii. 567 note. iv. 
L55 note. His parents, 250, note. 
Tavistock, Elizabeth (Keppel) Mar- 
chioness of, iv. 155. 
Taylor, Dr. Brooke, i. 498. 
Taylor, Bishop Jeremy, v. 100. 102. 
Taylor, Mr. iii. 617. 
Taylor, Mrs. i. 228. iii. 463. 
Taylor the oculist, i. 580. 
Tea, cost of, in Mrs. Delany's days, i. 

134. 172. iii. 584. vi. 317. 
Tellier, or Tillier, Miss or Mrs. i. 11. 
12. 58. 124. 135. 150. 153. 168. 170. 
178. 235. 236. 
Temple, fire in the, i. 588 note. 
Temple, George, 2nd Earl, v. 524. 
Temple, Henry, Lord, afterwards 2nd 

Lord Palmerston, iv. 403. 
Temple, Hester Countess, and her 

diamonds, v. 94. 333 note. 
Temple, Mary (Nugent) Countess, v. 

524. 
Temple, Richard Lord, and his nephew 

Grenville, v. 400. 
Temple, Sir Richard. See Cobham, 

Lord. 
Templeton, Lady, vi. 319. 
Tenducci, Italian singer, ii. 300. 
Teniers, pictures of, sold, iii. 421. 
Tenison, Captain, iii. 569. 
Tennison, Mrs. Dr. Delany's first wife, 

i. 227 note. 372 note. 
Tennison and Delany suit. See Delanv, 

Dr. Patrick. 
Tessier, Baron de, and his father, i. 

250. 
Tessier, Monsieur, a dramatic company 
in himself, v. 179. 181. 181 note. 
200. 
Teynham, Henry Lord, iii. 569. vi. 

61 note. 
Thanet, Lady, i. 217. 547 note. v. 389. 
2 R 



594 



INDEX. 



Thanet. 
Thanet, Sackville, 7th, 8th, and 9th 

Earls of, i. 217 note. 543 note. v. 

331. 366 note. vi. 345. 
Thanet, Thomas Tufton, 6th Earl of, 

i. 154. Injunction in his will, 155. 

His five daughters and their mar- 
riages, iv. 235 note. 
Theatres in Lincoln's-Inn-Fields and 

vicinity, i. 126, 127. Affray with 

the footmen at Drury Lane, 598, 

599. 
Theddy, Mrs. hopeless state of, iii. 302. 
" Theodora," Handel's oratorio of, ii. 

624. 631. 
Thirwall, Mr. tutor, iv. 95. His reasons 

for declining an engagement, 100. 
Thomas, Dr. John, Bishop of Win- 
chester, iv. 10. His neglect of Mrs. 

Mulso Chapone, vi. 19. 
Thomas, Miss, afterwards Mrs. Ogle, 

iii. 379. 
Thomas, Mrs. iii. 362. 
Thomas, Sir Noah, v. 314. 
Thomond, Earls of, i. 467 note. 
Thompson, Edward, Esq. and wife, i. 

104 note 2 . 
Thompson, Francis, Esq. ii. 513 note. 
Thompson, John, roguery of, i. 366. 
Thompson, Sir Charles, iii. 328, note. 
Thomson, James, poet, i. 251 note. 609. 

iii. 571. 
Thomson, Mr. i. 397. 
Thornhill, Lady Johanna, v. 105. 107. 

vi. 375. 
Thornhill, Miss, i. 162. 164. 169. ii. 

537. 
Thornhill, Sir James, i. 283 note. 
Thornicroft, Edward, Esq. i. 547 

note. 
Thorold, Mr. the " new Star of Right- 
eousness," ii. 8. 
Thrale, Mrs. vi. 221 note. 348. 
Throckmorton, Catherine (Collingwood) 

Lady, ii. 7. 38. 46. 336. iii. 115. 

265. 371. Letters from her to Mrs. 

Dewes (Anne Granville) ii. 100. 108. 

119. See Collingwood, Miss. 
Throckmorton, Sir Baynham, i. 258 

note. 
Throckmorton, Sir Robert, i. 480. 481 

note. 620. ii. 11. 13. 38. 40. 41. 46. 

50. 52. 58. 59. 62. 75. 77. 129. 131. 

133. iii. 371. 
Throckmortons and Collingwoods, i. 



TOLLEMACHE. 

481 note. Their seat at Weston 

Underwood, ii. 41, 42. 
Thurlow, Lord Chancellor, vi. 319. 
Thynne family, i. 20 note. 
Thynne, Hon. Henrietta, or Harriet, iv. 

131. 257. v. 414, 

Thynne, Lady Louisa, afterwards 
Countess of Aylesford, v. 212. 328. 
336. 340. vi. 39. 48. 57. 59. 62. 63. 
See Aylesford, Louisa, Countess. 

Thyime, Lord James, i. 585. 

Thynne, Mr. iii. 334. 486. 611. iv. 
426. 

Thynne, Sir Henry Frederick, i. 153 
note. 

Thynne, T. i. 13. 20 note. 552 note. 

Thynnes, the seven, v. 410. 

Tichborne, Betty, or " Bess," i. 97. 100. 
199. 208. 313. 367. 437. 500. 558. 
579. ii. 82. 229. 604 note. 

Tichbourne, Benjamin, i. 4 note. 

Tichbourne, Judith, afterwards Lady 
Sunderland, i. 4 note. See Sunder- 
land, Lady. 

Tickel, Mrs. iii. 205. 

Tigh, William, Esq. i. 377. 

Tillier, Mrs. See Tellier. 

Tilson, James, Esq. (Lady Elizabeth 
Kerr's 2nd husband) ii. 570. 

Tilson, Mr. and Mrs. iii. 82. 91. 

Tindall, Mr. iii. 452. 

Tissot, Simon Andrew, physician and 
medical author, vi. 425. 

Titchfield, William Henry Cavendish, 
Marquis of, son of 2nd Duke of Port- 
land, ii. 132. 182. 202. 517. 518. 
519. 523. 531. 533. 534. 541. iii. 
215. 241. 247. 291. 294. 310. 336. 
338. 348. 385. 424. 426. 436. 459. 
472. 475. 477. 627. Mrs. Delany's 
letter of advice to him, iii. 340 — 343. 
Letter from him to Mrs. Dewes, ii. 

132. See Portland, William Henry, 
3rd Duke of. 

Titchfield, William Henry Cavendish, 
Marquis of, son of 3rd Duke of Port- 
land, iv. 270. v. 50. 470. 

Tollemache, Hon. George, tragical end 
of, v. 313. 

Tollemache, Hon. John, Captain, R.N. 
killed in a duel, v. 327. 

Tollemache, Hon. William, lost at sea, 
v. 312. 

Tollemache, Hon. Wilbraham, after- 



INDEX. 



fti)5 



Toi.i.km.uiik. 

wards 5th Lord Dysart, iv. 390. 

486. 
Dollemache, Lady Bridget, v. 67, r6. 

337. 361, 327. Hoi- two husbands, 

337 note. Condolence from her 

brother, vi. 11. 
Pollemache, Lady France's, v. 214. 
foUemaohe, Lady Jane. See Balliday. 
feUemache, Lady Louisa, afterwards 

wife of John Manners, Esq. and Lady 

Dysart in her own right, ill. 349. 

383.403.412.426. iv. 62. v. 356 

folleniaehe, Mrs. (Anna Lewis), iv. 
lofe. Accident to her, v. 350. 
Cblmaah, Miss, i, 192. 
l Tomaaio. M 8a Weymouth, Thomas, 

2nd Viscount. 

onilinson, Miss, afterwards Mrs. An- 
drew Foley, iv. 132. 492. 602 note. 

onilinson, Mrs. iv. 132. 

'oiikin, Thomas, of Trevaunance, and 
his family, i. 46 note* 

onkin, the Cornish topographer, i. 
108 note. 

Tony," Sir. See Westconib, Sir 
Anthony. 

Vioko, Home, speech written by him, 
iv. 265 note. 

taker, Mr. James, i. 508. 

taker, Rev. Tretheway ("Tranio") 
pariah minister of Buckland, Glou- 
cestershire, i. 13, and note. His cha- 
racter and " Familiar," 14. 489, and 
note. 

'orrington, George, 4th Viscount, iii. 
463 note. iv. 10 note. 

Wnley, Mrs. death of, iii. 283. 

ownley, Kev. James, farce by, iii. 578. 

'ownshend, Audrey (Harrison) Lady, 
iii. 418. 

'ownshend, Anne (Montgomery) Lady, 
iv. 507. 

'ownshend, Charles, 2n Viscount, 
i. 10. 247. ii. 29. 

ownshend, George, 4th Viscount and 
Ul Marquis, iv. 313. 507. In pecu- 
niary difficulties, 572. Reverse in 
fortune, v. GO. 

'ownshend, Hon. Miss, daughter of 
Lady Greenwich, iv. GO. 94. v. 415. 

racy, Miss, i. 447. ii. 341. 

racv, Mrs. (Peter Bathurst's daughter) 
and Hon. T. 0. iii. 422 note. 



TUBTON. 

"Tranio." Set Tooker, Kev. T. 
Travelling, Set Roads. 
Trelawney, Governor, ii. 423. 
Tremayne, Arthur, Esq. oi' Heligan, 

iv. 301 note. 
Tremayne, Mrs. "Dunbar that was," 

vi. 179. 
Trench, mad Counsellor, ii. 609, 
Trenchard, Mrs. end of, i. 151. 
Trentham, Lord, ii. 527. 534. 
Treubattis, John, i. L56. 
Trevor, Lady, iv. 132. 136. 
Trevor, Mr. iv. 132. 
Trevor, Robert Lord, iv. 59. 102 notes. 

v. 104 note. 
Trevor, Sir John, iv. 171 note. 
Trevors, animosity of the old Duchess 

of Marlborough towards the, i. 545 

note. 
Trew, Dr. botanist, iii. 255. 
Trimleston, Lord, florist and amateur 

physician, iii. 129. His medical be- 
nevolence, ibid. note. 
Trimmer, Mrs. the educational writer, 

vi. 4G5. 
Trinity College, Cambridge, civil war 

at, i. 76. 
" Tristram Shandy." See Sterne, Lau- 
rence. 
" Triumph of Time and Truth," Han- 
del's oratorio of, iii. 458. 481. 
Trotman, Thomas, i. 154 note. 
Truro church, historical relic still there, 

i. 35 note. 
Tuam, Archbishopric of, iii. 68. 85. 

See Ryder, Dr. ; Synge, Dr. Edward ; 

Whit combe, Dr. 
Tucker, Kev. Dr. Josiah, v. 184 note. 
Tufton familv, Lady Gower on the, 

v. 331. 
Tufton, Lady Ann, i. 544 note 2 . 
Tufton, Lady Catherine, i. 544 note 2 . 
Tufton, Lady Charlotte, v. 331, 366. 
Tufton, Lady Isabella (" Bell ") i. 154. 

Ller father and husband, ibid, note 2 . 

Injunction laid on her by her father's 

will, 155. 
Tufton, Lady Margaret. See Leicester, 

Margaret Lady. 
Tufton, Lady Mary, i. 187. ii. 147, 

235. See Gower, Countess. 
Tullamore, Lady, ii. 479. iii. 28. 
Turner, Sir Gregorv, i. 279. 
Turton, Dr. iv. 152. v. 2G0. 289. 



596 



INDEX. 



TvjRTON. 

298. 341. Mrs. Delany's legacy to 
him. 
Turton, Mrs. v. 341. 
Tweeddale, Frances (Carteret.) Mar- 
chioness of, i. 491. ii. 487, 487 note. 
iii. 12. 256. 333. 471. iv. 62. 92. 94. 
124. v. 96. 104. 214. 513. 526. 
Loses her son, Lord Gifford, iii. 156. 
217. Her soilless state, 319. Appre- 
hensions, 463. Loses her afterborn 
son, iv. 306. Verses to the memory 
of her son and daughter, 499 — 501. 
Letters from her to Mrs. Delany, iv. 
499. To Mrs. Port, v. 420. vi. 48. 

Tweeddale, George, " the little Mar- 
quis" of, iv. 62. 306. 499. 

Tweeddale, John, 4th Marquis of, i. 
328. ii. 486. 487. His death, iii. 62. 

Twyford, Mr. ("Roberto") i. 14, 15. 
Becomes enamoured of Mary Gran- 
ville, 18, 19. Inexorability of his 
parents, 19. Lord Lansdowne's ill- 
will towards him, 27. Fatal result 
of his unrequited love, 30, 31. 

Twysden, Dr. Philip, Bishop of Raphoe, 
iii. 173. v. 204 note. 

Tynte, Sir Charles Kemeys, Bart, 
descent of, vi. 42 note. 

Tyr . . . Lady, v. 247. 

Tyrawley, Frances, Lady, i. 126. 127. 

Tyrawley, Lord (son of the above) and 
his wives, i. 127. ii. 481. iii. 541. 
Characteristic remarks by him, i. 
128. ii. 481. 

Tyrconnel, Earl of, iv. 427. 493 note. 

Tyrconnel, Sir John Brownlow, Vis- 
count, i. 274 and note. 276. 342 note. 
605 note 2 . 

Tyrone, George de la Peer, 2nd Earl of. 
See Wateri'ord, Marquis of. 

Tyrone, Lady, iii. 532. 579. 

Tyrone, Marcus Beresford, Viscount 
and Earl of, ii. 323 note. iii. 501, 
note. 587. 

Ulloa's Travels, iii. 541. v. 488. 492. 

Underwood, Mrs. ii. 263. 

Union Bill, the, in the Irish Parlia- 
ment, iii. 577. 

Unet, or Unitt, Elizabeth, afterwards 
Mrs. Foley, i. 301. 304. 308. See 
Foley, Mrs. Elizabeth. 

Unet family (the "Unitys") i. 158. 
182. 187. 225. 274. 301. 304. 



Vere. 
Upton, Miss, i. 615. 
Upper Ossory, Earl of, iii. 339 note, 

590. iv. 346, 523 notes, v. 342, 

365 7 totes. 
Upton, Mr. retort to a party-man by, 

iii. 585. 
Usher, Archbishop, i. 225. 330. 
Usher, Arnold, clerk in the Irish 

Chancery, i. 225. 
Usher, Captain, burnt to death, iv. 16. 
Usher, Christopher, of Dublin, i. 213 

note. 291. 294. 299. 301. 317. 324. 

332. 334. 345. 348. 395. 397. 401. 

406. 409. iii. 112. 133. 
Usher family, i. 288. 
Usher, Harry, i. 284. 
Usher. Miss, i. 223. 290. 317. 393. 

ii. 25. 
Usher, Mrs. i. 294. 315. 316. 315. 

124. 125. 
Usher, Sir William, i. 255 note. 
Usher, William, i. 335. 346. 389. 
Uxbridge, Henry Earl of, ii. 245 note h . 

Valentia, Arthur, Viscount, iv. 104 

note. 
" Valeria." See Stanley, Lady. 
Vanbrugh, Lady, iii. 479. 
Vanbrugb, Sir John, i. 127. 175 note, 

463. 
Vandeput, Sir George, ii. 527 note. 
Vanderbank, Jan, painter, i. 557, 558. 
Vandermine, Franck, painter, habits 

and end of, i. 120 note. 
Vandyke, Antony, pictures by, iii. 497. 

iv. 537. v. 195. 
Vane, Miss, paramour of Frederic, 

Prince of Wales, i. 247. 
" Vanessa," Swift's, iii. 73. 74. 
Van Haaten, Lydia Catherine, after- 
wards Duchess of Chandos, i. 508 

note. v. 547 note. 
Vanhost, the sculptor, iii. 95, 96. 
Vanlewin, Dr. and Mrs. i. 302 327 

and note. 
Vanneschi, opera manager, iii. 421. 
Vaughan, John, Esq. of Bristol, and his 

daughter Mary, afterwards Lady 

Sussex, iv. 564 note. 
Veracini, musical composer, i. 558 note. 
Veraselle, Miss, musical amateur, iii. 

17. 
Vere, Lady, i. 471, 472 notes. 
Vere, Lord, iii. 468. 



I N 1 > 1 
\ not. 
Vere, of Hanworth, Beauclero, Lord, 

i. ."■ I 1 note. 
Vernev, Miss, iii. 616, 
Vernon, Anne, letter to Miss Colling- 

wood from, i. 482. 
Vernon, George, Lord, i. 483 note. 
Vernon, Hon. Miss Caroline, vi. 1 1 1. 
Vernon, Lady Harriet, iv. 242. v. 312. 
Vernon, Lord, v. 94. 
Vernon, Miss, i. 546, iv. 292. 
Vernon, Miss .lane, v. 812. 
Vernon, Mr. oi Park Place, v. 329. 
Vernon, Mr. and Mrs. iv. !). 24. 134. 

242. 
Vernon. Bin. (daughter of Lord 

Howard, of Effingham) i. 483. 
Vernon, Mrs. ami her discarded hus- 
band, v. 94. 
Veronese, Paul, ii. 26 
Ferschoyle, Dr. James, Bishop of Kil- 

lala, i. 3 

Yertue, George, the engraver, i. 485, 
. ii. 27. 

. Mr. and Mrs. ii. 415. 450. 483. 
. iii. 20. 21. 39. 91. 104. 
151. 328. 

Kin. iii. 131. iv. 10. v. 307. 
333. 399. 400. 407. 456. 523. vi. 
78. L19, note. 190. 191. 201. 
219. 222. 224. 267. 351. 375. 

. Sir John. See Knapton, Baron. 
Vesey, Sir Thomas, Bishop of Ossory, 
ii. 508 note. 

a, the, ii. 551. 557. 606. 
Victor, theatrical annalist, ii. 424 vote. 
. Mrs. angular adventure of, ii. 
143—146. Her death, vi. 168. 
" Vilario." See Villiers, Hon. Benry. 
Villiers, Hon. Henry (" Vilario ") i. 23 
Makes merry with Mr. Pen- 
darves, 23. 26. 335. 425. 
Villiers, Ja: raid, Lord, i. 392 

. 
Villiers, Hon. Thomas, afterwards Lord 
and Earl of Clarendon, 
imy," iii. 262. iv. 296. vi. 
12. 

Villiers, Lady, iii. 173. 2 
Villiers. M - . Lord, afterwards 

lison, iii. 581, 582. Will 
make his wife "a rock of diamonds,'' 
•• Furious in jewels," 405. 
"Ingenious in the art of wasting," 
His purpis velvet coat, 490. 



x. 597 

Wai.im'.okavk. 
Villiers, Mr. o( the Admiralty, iii. 

416. 
Vinci, musical composer, i. ■! 16. 

Yine\ , Anne, letter to Rev. J. DeWCS 
from, iv. 567. 

Viney, 11. iii. 3. I. 7. 

Viney, Miss, iii. 3, 4, L2. 44. 132. 162. 
260. 337. 364. 366. 383, It I. 157. 
560. 611. iv. 24. 

Viney, Mr. iii. 481. 

Viney, Mrs. i. 135. 171. 172. 171. 257. 
301. 329. 384. 393. 444. 529. 534. 
590. 593. 610. ii. 26. 32. 33. 196. 
312.358. 425. 476. 506. 507. 508. 
611. iii. 481. 

Viney, Mr. dames, her son, ii. 515. 
516. 517. 531. 

Violante, Madame, rope dancer, i. 309. 
Peg Wbffington's theatrical precep- 
tress, 310. 

Virev, Count and Madame, her occupa- 
tion in exile, v. 4~)~). 

Virginia Water entirely gone, iv. 159. 

Visconti, Monsieur, i. 157. 

Vise, Mr. iv. 118. 

" Voiders " and " voids," i. 136. 

Voltaire, i. 285. vi. 200. Lord ller- 
vey's satirical couplet upon him, i. 
160. His "Siecle de Louis XIV." 
iii. 160. 195. "Suspending his 
dying agony," v. 277. Letter from 
him, 279. 

Vyner, Miss, ii. 175. 

Vyvyan, Sir Richard and Lady, i. 43 
and note. His daughter, 47. 

W , Colonel, carries off Miss II , 

i. 169. 
Wade, Captain, wounded at Fontenoy, 

ii. 357. 
Wainwright, John, Baron of Irish Ex- 
chequer, i. 403 note. 
Wake, Mary(Fenton) Lady, vi. 194. 

196. 200. 201. 357. 
Waldegrave, Elizabeth Lady, wife of 

3rd Karl, death of, vi. 213. 
Waldegrave, dames, 2nd Earl of, iii. 

336.463. 
Waldegrave, Lady charlotte Maria, 
. .\ards Duchess of Grafton, v. 

546. 553. 
Waldegrave, Lady Leonora, v. 451. 

152. Lady Elizabeth, vi. 118. 451. 
Waldegrave, Maria (Wal[>ole) Countess 



598 



INDEX. 



Wales. 
Dowager of, afterwards Duchess of 
Gloucester, iv. 464. 507. v. 451. 

Wales, Princes of. See Frederic ; George. 
Princess, see Augusta. 

AValker, Mr. " the man that gives lec- 
tures," vi. 190. 

Walker, Robert, the poor parson, ex- 
emplary history of, iii. 371 — 378. 

Wallace, Mrs. i. 529. 

Wallace, Sir J. vi. 51. 

Waller, Edmund, the poet, ii. 132. 
His house at Beaconsfield, iv. 454. 

Waller, Mrs. iv. 519. 

Waller, Sir William, parliamentary 
general, ii. 2. 

Wallin, the bone-setter, i. 569. 

Wallinsford, Lady, ii. 25. 35. 42. 84. 
175 note 1 . 413. 444. 524. 536. iii. 
249. 333. 426. 444. iv. 52. 149. 
v. 96. 110. 156. 300. 326. 412. 430. 
456. vi. 110. 120. 319. Mrs. De- 
lany's bequest to her, vi. 485. 

Wallis, Captain, discoverer of Otaheite, 
iv. 450. vi. 51. 53. 55. 

Walpole, Galfridus, Esq. i. 447 note. 

Walpole, George, 3rd Earl of Orford, 
iv. 494, note. A lunatic, 572. 

Walpole, Horace, citations from, or re- 
ferences to, i. 127, 128. 140. 175 
note. 198, 199, notes. 245. 247. 249. 
256. 438 note. 439 note. 463, 464. 
471. 498. 545, note. 609 note 9 , ii. 
3. 175 note. 198 note. 223. 261. 268 
note. 272 note. 487 note. 542, note. 
579. iii. 315. 421. 423. iv. 150. 
261. 265. 272. 319. 341. 345. 372. 
374. 423. 424. 486. 493. 567. 572, 
v. 181 note. 187. 189, 195, 357, 523 
notes. 567. 568. vi. 79. 144. 190. 
191. 240. 244. 290 note. 341. 351. 
372. 374. 375. Letters from him 
to Mrs. Delany, vi. 416. To Miss 
Hamilton, afterwards Mrs. Dicken- 
son, vi. 145. 263. 478. Mrs. De- 
lany 's bequest to him, 489. 

Walpole, Horatio, 2nd Lord, i. 200. v. 
54 note. 

Walpole, Maria (Skerret) Lady, i. 608. 
iii. 620 note. 

Walpole, Sir Edward, i. 377 note. iv. 
494. His daughter Maria, iv. 464 
note 5 . 507 note 3 . 

Walpole Sir Robert, afterwards 1st 
Lord Orford, i. 162. 440. 608 note. 



Warwick. 

iii. 620 note. iv. 494, note. v. 61 

What he said of his trees, vi. 12, 13. 

Walpoles, the, i. 196 and note. 

Walsh, historian of Dublin, i. 310 

Walsingham, Admiral Hon. Rober 

Boyle, iv. 453, 571, notes, v. 314 

545, notes. Lost at sea, vi. 18. 

Walsingham, Hon. Charlotte (Wii 

liams) wife of above, v. 137. 142. 

172. 174. 187. 218. 234. 239. 262. 

293. 314. 315. 398. 399. 422. 458. 

469. 477. 479. 524. 525. 544. 569. 

579. vi. 18. 27. 58. 78. 138. 177. 

185. 190. 191. 231. 316. 319. 322. 

324. 341. 375. Her verses to Mrs. 

Delany, v. 527. Letter to same, vi. 

270. Her daughter, see Boyle, 

Charlotte. 

Walsingham, Melusinda de Schulem- 

ber, Lady ("Stella") afterwards 

Lady Chesterfield, i. 89, 90. See 

Chesterfield, Melusinda Countess of. 

Walters, Mrs. ii. 175. 

Warburton, Dr. William, Bishop of 

Gloucester, editor of Pope, iii. 159. 
Warburton, Sir George, i. 287 note. 
Ward, Michael, Irish Judge, and his 

son Bernard, iii. 506 note. 
Ward, Lady Anne, iii. 506. 599. iv. 21. 
Ward, Miss, i. 257. 
Ward, Miss Anne, iii. 54. 407. 511. 
Ward, Mr. i. 605. 
Warde, Mr. weighty conchological gift 

to Mrs. Delany by, iii. 27. 
Ware, Isaac, architect, mansion built 

by, iv. 529 note. 
Warr, Sir Francis, iii. 452. 
Warren, Dr. iv. 154. 
Warren, Mr. married to old Lady Dy- 

sart, i. 546. 
Warren, Mrs. Nelly, i. 71. 
Warren, Sir George, iv. 540 note. 
Warters, John, of Barbadoes, iii. 451 

note. 

Warton, Dr. Joseph, i. 200. vi. 94. 
201. 203. 340. 341. Letter from 
him to Mrs. Delany, 380. Post held 
by him, 381. 
Warton. Miss, iii. 36. 
Warwick, Elizabeth (Hamilton) Dow- 
ager Countess of, vi. 188. 190. 191. 
Warwick, Francis, 1st Earl of, iii. 600. 
iv. 322. His children and their 
marriages, iv. 110 note. 



: 



1X1 

W'akwu K. 

W'uru ick, i leor e Lord Greville, after- 
wards 2nd Earl of, iv. 112, v. 234 
. 

Warwick, Henrietta (Vernon) Countess 
.-•'. \. 234. 

Waanaer, Lady, iii. 399. 

Waterford, Bishop of. See Chenevix, 
Dr.j Este, Dr. 

Waterford, George De la Poer Beres- 
ford, 1st Marquis of, i. 1*1)1 note. iv. 

«d, [sabeUa (Monck) Mar- 
chioness of. Sm Monck, Isabella. 

Waters, Mrs. ii. 268. 270. 
Watson, Admiral, iii. 483. 

D, Mr. gift from Lady Salisbury 
to, i. 

ber prognostications, ii. 417. 
Webb, Daniel, Esq. iii. 246 note. 
Webb, Jenny, i. 499. 
Webb, Mr. i. 459. 405. iii. 605. 
Webb, Mrs. i. 505. 
Webb, Sir John, of Halthorp, and 

daughter, i. 522 note. 
Weddell, Mr. and Mrs. v. 353. 505. 
vi. 277. Their Yorkshire mansion, 
•-•77, 278. Mrs. W. condoles with 
Miss Port, 493. 
Welleslev, Marquis, i. 350. 
WeUesfey peerage, origin of the, i. 255 

note. 
Wellington, Arthur Duke of, progeni- 
tor of, ii. 501 note. 
Wells, Mrs. ii. 35. iii. 74. 80. 
Wentworth, General, the centenarian 

widow oi, v. 243, 
Wentworth, Lady Charlotte, vi. 144. 

324. 335. 
Wentworth, William, the baby cornet, 

i. 47 
Werge (Worg) Lady, i. 579. 

Sir Clement, Attorney-General, 
i. 67 

man, famous jeweller, iv. 275. 
, Garrett, Esq. of Dangan, i. 
vote. 

. Garrett, Lord Mornington. 
Mornington, Garrett Wesley, 
Lord. 

i. 278. 284. 312. 408. 

410. 

Wesley, Richard Colley, afterwards 

Baron of Mornington, and Lady 

(Mary Granville's friends) i. 255 and 



>EX. 5D9 

Weymouth. 
note. 272. 276. 283, 284. 812.315. 
316. 329. 345, 848. 350. 361. 880. 
393. K)6. 408. 409. 129. ii. ;;;;;.. 
>' - Mornington, Richard, Baron. 

Wesley, Rev. John, letter to Mrs, 
Granville from, i. 269—271. His 
career, 271. Mrs.Delany'a recollec- 
tions of him, vi. L75. 

West, Beojamin, P.R.A. Flatters Mrs. 
Delany, iv. 322. Visited by her, 
329. Painted window designed by 
him, vi. 430. 

West, Gilbert, ii. 460. 

West, Mr. author, "Essays" by, iii. 
40. 

West, Mrs. i. 304. iii. 12. 308. 

Westcombe, Anna Maria (Calmady) 
wife of Sir Anthony, i. 578 note ». ii. 
270. 278. 

Westcombe, Sir Anthony (" Black Don," 
" Black Knight," " Sir Tony ") i. 67. 
88. 189. 210. 333. 303. 374. 578 
note l . ii. 34. 288. 385. 431. 439 
477. 525. 592. 008. 011. 023. 030. 
iii. 23. 45. 59. His death and will, 
185. Letters from him, ii. 439. 504. 

Westcombe, Sir Martin, i. 2. 223. ii. 
508. 

Westcote, Caroline (Bristow) Ladv, v 
512. "" 

Westcote, William Henry, Baron, after- 
wards Lord Lyttelton, v. 512 note. 

Westminster boys, play acted by the, i. 
loo. 

Westminster, Dean and Chapter of, 
Lord Chesterfield's bequest of a con- 
ditional penalty to, iv. 529 note. 

Westmoreland, Elizabeth (Swymmer) 
Dowager Countess of, widow of 8th 
Earl, v. 190. 380. 

Westmoreland, Mary (Cavendish) Lady, 
ii. 29. 43. 44. 40. 208. 209. 259. 267. 
295. 027. 035. iii. 604. 605. 606. 
012. 010. 018. 

Westmoreland, John, 7th Earl of ii. 
450. iii. 570. 004. 016. 

Weston, Miss, iii. 423. 

Weston, Stephen, Bishop of Exeter, 
iii. 8. 

Weston Underwood, Manor House of, 
description of, ii. 41, 42. 

Weymouth, Thomas, 1st Viscount, i. 
153. 427 note. 

Weymouth, Thomas, 2nd Viscount 



600 



INDEX. 



Weymouth. 

("Tomasio") i. 99 and note. 214=. 

297—299. 315. 335. 343. 369. 424, 

425. 432. 434. 453. 457. 461 note. 

466. 468. 469 note. 488. 489. 491. 

516 note. 582. 583 note. 584. 585. 

595. ii. 37. 43. 80. 97. 111. 244. 

336. 337. 451. 539. 556. His en- 
gagement and marriage, i. 411 — 413. 

His death, iii. 10. His will and 

bequests to his sisters and to his man 

Wilson, 11. 25. 
Weymouth, Louisa (Carteret Lady,) 

wife of above, i. 416. 424, 425. 428. 

431.. 434. 435. 447. 449. 452. 461. 

463. 466. 468. 490. 492. 534. 590. 

Her last illness and death, 582 — 584. 

ii. 204. Her portrait, iii. 361. See 

Carteret, Louisa. 
Weymouth, Thomas, 3rd Viscount and 

1st Marquis of Bath, iii. 240 note. 

361. 557. 611. 619. v. 119. 133. 

164. 336. vi. 110. False marriage 

report, iii. 364. Married, 540 note. 

547. Resigns office, iv. 317, note. 
Weymouth, Elizabeth (Bentinck) Lady, 

wife of above, iii. 240 note. 495. 540 

note. 557. 607. 608. 609. 610. iv. 6. 

23. 63. 64. 68. 154. 166. 179. 194. 

v. 92. 133. 138. 166. 168. 189. 191. 

249. 336. 340. 341. 374. 375. 377. 

378. 410. 412. 419. 454. 470. 471. 

473. 477. 478. 479. 480. 531. 584. 

vi. 51. 57. 110. 112. 113. 136. 140. 

153. 154. 159. 160. 161. 163. 216. 

221. 254. 269. 275. 278. 319. 341. 

347. 384. Mrs. Delany's bequests 

to her, 484. 489. See Bentinck, 

Lady Elizabeth. 
Whang-at-Tong, Mr. v. 134. 
Wharncliffe, James, 1st Baron, i. 262 

note. 
Wheeler, John, Esq. of Wootton, iv. 

4 note. 
Whitcombe, Dr. John, made Bishop of 

Down, iii. 85. Enthroned, 137. 

Archbishop of Cashel, 153. 
Whitehead, William, poet laureate and 

dramatist, ii. 541. v. 211. 
Whiteman, Miss, i. 71. 
White's Club a curse to the nation, iii. 

336. 
Whitfield, Rev. Mr. iv. 128. 
Whitlock, Major, picture collection of, 

iii. 15. 



WlLLOUGHBY. 

Whit worth, Sir Charles, cause of lunacy 

of, iv. 152. His distinguished son, 

ibid. note. 
" Whole Duty of Man," reputed author 

of, iii. 231. 
Widdrington, Peregrine, Esq. i. 522 

note. 
Wilbraham, Mr. iii. 270. 
Wilbraham, Roger, vi. 218. 
Wilkes, John, at loggerheads with the 

House of Commons, iv. 340. Court 

substitute for him in the House, 

465 note. Struck with palsy, v. 59. 

To be Chamberlain, 493. 
Wilkins, Dr. David, i. 261. 
Wilkinson, Miss, the wire-dancer, lost 

at sea, iii. 527. 
Wilkinson, Mrs. i. 183. 
Wilkinson, Pinkney, Esq. iv. 460 note. 
William III. i. 2. 243. 246. iii. 54. 

iv. 345. Bullet memento of him, 

vi. 202. 
William Henry, Prince, afterwards 

William IV. i. 256. v. 473. In 

Jamaica, vi. 237 — 239. In Cornwall, 

282. 
Williams, Fanny, iv. 45. 
Williams, Gilly, on Almacks, iv. 47 

note. 
Williams, Helen Maria, Mr. Harding's 

efforts on behalf of, vi. 394. 
Williams, Lady, v. 439. 
Williams, Lady Frances, daughter of 

Thomas, Lord Coningsby, ii. 202. 

iv. 216. 
Williams, Mrs. v. 452. 453. vi. 53. 

55. 112. 296. 
Williams, Rev. Mr. Whitehall preacher, 

i. 165. 206. 209. 367. 
Williams, Rev. Rhys, iv. 153 note. 
Williams, Sir Charles Hanbury, Bart. 

ii. 202 note. iv. 216, 453, 571, notes. 

v. 314, note. Peg Woffington's retort 

to him, iv. 63. 
Willis, Judge, v. 243. 
Willoughby, Cassandra, 2nd wife of 1st 

Duke of Chandos, v. 547. 
Willoughby de Broke, Louisa (North) 

Lady, iv. 9. 10. 22. 206. v. 39. 80. 

81. 86. 88. 92. 97. 98. 101. 192. 281. 
1 305. 353. 382. 414. 476. 490. 491. 

538. vi. 42. 115. 223. 282. 283. 303. 

311. 312. 314. 337. 338. 377. 409. 
Willoughby de Broke, John Peyto, 6th 



IN 
Wilmington. 
Lord, iii. 540, 560. iv. 5. 6. 9, 1" 
U. 22. i !. mi 

1 L3. 305. 354. 382. I!::. t73, 1:91, 
vi. 12. 223. 282, 283. 303 3] I 312 
31 i. 377 

Wilmington, Earl of, i 

Wilmot, Dr, ii. 2<>7. 

Wilmot, Major, iii. 17 1. 209, 

Wilmot, Miss, \ i. I L3. 

Wilson, Mr. liberality o\\ iii. 24 !. 

Wilson, Mrs. i. 360. 37 I. 

Wilson, Mrs. Richard (Elizabeth Foun- 
tayne) vi. I i I. Her death, 

Wilson, Richard Fountayne, » 

above, \ i. 
Winohelsea, Ann (Kingsmill) wife of 

Heneage,4th Karl of (poetess) i. L97. 

vi. E 
Winohelsea, Heneage, Earl of, i. 99, 
Daniel, 6th Earl, iii. 464 note. 

Daniel, 7th Earl, v. 

512. vi. 4. S 
Winchester, Bishops of. Set North, 

B. : Thomas, Dr. John. 
rVindham, Sir Charles, ii. 

Wyndham, 
Window, Mr. i. I 

or, Herbert, Viscount, iv. 262 
4 . 

r, Thomas Viscount, and Baron 
Montjoy, i. 317 and note. 
• joy. 
Wingfield, Mr. and Mrs. i 
ii. 1, 2, 26. 

. M rs. -■ 16. 
iVinnin -. note. 

\Vinnii _ Edward, v. L20. 123 

. 45 note. 

vVinnington, Edward, son of above, and 
his Lady (Hon. Anne Foley) v. 120 
. 149. vi. J 7 
22. 41. 
Viunin. ty, i. 264 

.Vinnii 

II • death, 74. 
lener to William III. 
. 1 1'".. L48. 190 

[r. iii. 434. 

Harry, iv. 1 12, 
Viseman, Sir William, i. 214 note. 
V IRT II. Vol.. 1 1 r . 



DEX 60] 

Wbest. 

Wither, Charles, Esq. i. 127 note, 

Witherington, Miss, i. ;.!i7. 

Wodehouse, Sir John, and his daughter 
Sophia, ii. 454 noU . 

WoflBngton, Margaret, tin- actress, bio- 
graphic Bketch of, i. 310, 311. 
Sends verses to tin- Lord-Lieutenant, 
iii. 88. Her person and acting, 79. 
80. Whal spoil! her appearance in 
M The tfonjuror," 98. Her reply to 
sir Charles H. Williams, iv. 63. 

Wogan, Mrs. ii. 605. 

Wolfe, General, victory and death of, 
iii. 571, note. 

Wolseley, Richard, son of Sir Richard, 
intended marriage of, iv. 41. 

Woman's Worth, Ferrers's poem on, 
iii. 324. 

ote, Surrey, supposed site of a 
Roman station, i. 250 note. 

Woodfelds, or Woodfield, Mrs. i. 124. 
171. 

Woods, Tommy, i. 400, 

W Iward, Mrs. i. 186. 

W ootton, the painter, ii. 30. iii. 305. 
note. 486. 

Worcester, Henry Charles, Marquis of, 
iv. 251. vi. .'50. 117. A school ac- 
cident, v. 358. 

Worcester, Bishops of. See Hnrd, Dr. ; 
North, Hon. Brownlow. 

I. adv. Set Werge, Lady. 

"World, The," iii. 365. 

Worsdale, James, musical entertain- 
ment by, ii. 2i),°. note. 

Worsley, Lady, i. 117. 427. GOO. 601. 
603. 

Worsley, Lady Betty, rumoured match 
for, iv. 427. 

Worsley, Sir Robert, i. 99 note. 203 
note. 127. ii. 97. 112. His mar- 
riage and issue, i. 427 note. 

Worsley, Thynne, i. 252 note. 427 
note. 

Worth, Lucy, i. 160. 

Worthy, Miss, i. 515. 

Woif ley, Miss, Lady M. W. Montagu's 
daughter, afterwards Countess of 
Bute, i. 162. Ber descendants, ibid, 
note. 

Wortley, Lady, i. 339. 

Wotton. See Wootton. 

Wren, Farrer, Esq. iv. 579 note. 
Park and gardens, v. 2G7 
2 s 



602 

Wricklemarbh. 
Wricklemarsh Mansion, i. 279. 
Wright, Mrs. concert singer, i. 200. 
Wright, Mrs. iii. G07. vi. 154. 
Wrottesley, Elizabeth. See Grafton, 

Elizabeth, Duchess of, 
Wrotteslev, Frances (Courtenay) Lady, 

iv. 379. 
Wrottesley, John, 1st Baron, birth of, 

iv. 379, 
Wrottesley, Lady Mary (Gower) ii. 

62 note 6 . Date of her death, iv. 

324. 
Wrottesley, Miss Fanny, iv. 213. 
Wrotteslev, Rev. Sir Richard, ii. 62. 

iv. 212; 213, 250, 262, 324, notes. 
Wrottesley, Sir John, iv. 253 note. 260. 

379 note, 
Wyndham, Lady Elizabeth, iv. 344. 
Wyndham, Miss, ii. 29. 235. 
Wyndham, Mr. i. 264, 265. 
Wyndham, Mrs. i. 238. 
Wyndham, Sir Edward, Bart. i. 287 

note. 466 note. 
Wyndham, Sir William, Bart. i. 14 

note. 17. 42 note. 466 note. 478. 
Wyniat, Reginald, Esq. ii. 365 note. 
Wynn, Major, married to Miss Max- 
well ; their fortune, iii. 318. 
Wynn, Lady Henrietta. See Somerset, 

Lady Henrietta. 
Wynn, Sir Watkin William, iv. 225, 

230, notes. "Happiest of men" a 

second time, 397. 
Wynyard, General Henry, v. 351 note. 
Wynyard, Lieutenant-General, iv. 62 

note. v. 357 note. 
Wynyard, Lady Matilda, v. 351. 



INDEX. 

ZUCCHI. 

Yate, Miss, i. 330. 

Yate, Robert Dobyns, i. 173 note. 

Yate, Walter, Esq. i. 254 note. 

Yates, Lady, v. 85. vi. 341. 412. 

Yearsley, Anne, the milk woman poetess, 

<vi. 209. 

Yeates, Mr. accidental death of, vi, 
108. 

Yonge, Miss, v. 436. 449. 453. 541. 
vi. 238. 

York, Archbishops of. See Drum- 
mond, Hon, R. ; Gilbert, Dr. ; Mark- 
ham, Dr. 

York, Duke of. See Edward Augustus ; 
Frederick, Duke. 

Yorke, Miss, vi. 238. 

Young, Edward, D.D. author of " Night 
Thoughts," i. 253 note. 451. 461 
note. ii. 94. 167. 243 note. 295. 
iii. 353. 468. iv. 46. 268. v. 507. 
His " Night Thoughts," iii. 92. His 
" Brothers," 220. His " Centaur not 
Fabulous," 339. His "Conjectures 
on Original Compositions," 558. 
Letters from him to the Duchess of 
Portland, ii. 159. To Mrs. Delany, 
iii. 326. 425. To a friend, iv. 42. 

Young, Miss, married to Mr. Mulso, 
iii. 429 note, 

Young, Mr. arrangements made by, on 
his daughter's marriage, iii. 429, 
430. 

Young, Mr. vi. 341. 

Young. See Yonge. 



Yarmouth, Lady, and son, bequests of 

George IL to, iii. 609. 
Yate, Jack, ii. 35. 



" Zaide," romance of, i. 356. 

Zincke, Christian Frederick, portrait 

painter, I 283. 603. ii. 429. 487. 

iii. 62. 
Zucchi, painter, husband of Angelica 

Kaufmann, iv. 329, note. 



THE END. 



LOUDON: TRlNTEp BT YHU.TAM CLOWES ANP SONS, STAMFOBP STREET ANP CI1AKING CKOSS. 



ERRATA. 



118' line 1 1 r 1 ' " ' s '' '" r " 1V;U ^ " Schoslcher" 

102, note 2, for « 7' wter" read " Sfcttwter." 

108, note, line 4 from bottom, for " Hilston * road " HeUton." 

119, lines 9, 10, for " Lady Qower, and Jane," read "and Jane 

Lady Grower." 
L28, line 9, for " Pcommand the ortuguese," read " command 

the Portuguese." 
L54, note 1, for " WricklemaiVh," read " Wricklemar.sh." 

ibid, for " Ambosden," read " Ambrosden." 
166, note 1, for " 1731," read " 1771." 
204, note, for " Bridges," read " Brydges." 
228, note, for " M.D." read " Mus. D." 
244, note line 6, for " whom," read " who." 
248, line 23 " Xicholl " ) , u N - k „ 

397, note " Nicholls " J rea(i ISlC0las - 
262, 3 lines from bottom, for " Rowe Moses" read " Rowe 

Mo\ 
ibid. 2 lines from bottom, for " w/>defessa " read " ^defessa." 
302, line 9, for " 1713 " read " 1733." 
350, line 4 from bottom, insert a comma between " Wesley " 

and " Dangan." 
375, line 17, after " belonged" insert " to." 
427, note 2, for " Thymee " read " Thyrme." 

ibid, for " Frances " read " Frances." 
"/' for " Typographical" read " Topographical." 
466, note, line 2, after " Kemble " dele the full stop and insert 

a coram' i. 
468, line 18, for " oempany " read " company." 

line 9 from bottom, for " aughter," read " Daughter." 
601, line 26, for " Bolter " read " Bolton." 

Vol. IT. p. 38, note, for "Schkecher" read " Schoelcher." 

761 III. p. 340, line 19, for " Ticth/ield" read " Titchficld." 

489. The Lord Hardwicke referred to in lines 2, 3, on this page 
is Philip the first Earl, and not Philip the second Earl, 
as stated in the footnote. Burke, by a transposition of 
figures, dates the first Earl's death in 1746 instead of 
1704. 
16, note 2, for "Chaffinch" read " Chiffmch" 

[ Turn over 



Vol. IV. p. 92, note 1, for " John, 4th Earl of Cardigan," read " George" 

263, line 7. The Lady Hertford named here must have been 
Isabella Fitzroy, wife of the 1st Marquis, and not Alice,- 
wife of the 2nd, Marquis, as stated in note 4. The latter 
lady died in 1772, twenty years before her husband 
succeeded to the Marquisate. 

339, note 5, for " Thomas Watson Wentworth " read " Charles 
Watson Wentworth." 

383, note, for "Truham" read " Irnham." 

557, note, for " William " read " Wills." 

Vol. V. page 4, note 3, for " 1710 " read " 1810." 

78, note 3, lines 1 and 2, for " George Lord Cathcart" read 

" Charles Lord Cathcart." 
147, line 12, for "yos " read " you." 
244, line 5, for "Aidabie" read "Aisldbie." 
257, for "youngest daughter " read " sister." 

276, note 1, for "Dr. Gilbert" read "Dr. Drummond." 
333, note 5, for " George Bussey " read " George Bussy." 

360, note, for "1788 " read " 1778." [Burke is wrong, Sir 

George] Osborn's second marriage took place 22nd July, 
1778]. 

361, line 13 from bottom, for "Borteous " read " Borteus." 
462, line 14. for "M." read " M l r 

507, note 2, for " 1733" read " 1783." 

Vol. VI. page 123, line 14 and note 2. Lady Anne Fermor, first wife of 
Thomas Lord Dartrey, died in 1769. The Lady Dartrey 
referred to in the text is Philadelphia Hannah Freame, 
his Lordship's second wife. 

277, note 4, for "Adams" read "Adam." 

376, note 2, for " Duke of Somerset " read " Duke of Beaufort." 



^ 



BINDING SECT. JUN 8 1967 



DA Delany, Mary (Granville) 
4,83 The autobiography and 

D3A2 correspondence of Mary 

1862 Granville 
v.3 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



