T^¥T""^fT'*'' 



T"i' ^ 



i^X 




■^ 





1 i 










n 



"X^r^ 




QJornell HttiuBraitg SItbratg 



IMtatn, Jfeoj ^oek 



<^&Sc/a/'/^eiJ!i 



PN 2596.L6H625"™"'"" '■"'"^ 
™iVfiNYS3f,?.,A,,?.,,.Londoners Kfe 




3 1924 026 124 648 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis bool< is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924026124648 



FIFTY YEARS OF A 
LONDONER'S LIFE 




H. G. HiBHF.RT 

PJiotogiapJi by Cavvndish Mo}-ton 



FIFTY YEARS OF A 
LONDONER'S LIFE 



BY 

H. G. HIBBERT 

WITH A PREFACE BY 

T. P, O'CONNOR 



«r 



WITH EIGHTEEN ILLUSTRATIONS 



NEW YORK 
DODD, MEAD AND COMPANY 

1916 




P|AS^aa^ 



PREFACE 

If this book and its author make the same appeal to the 
public as they do to me, then this certainly wUl be 
one of the books of the year. As to the author, I have 
known him for nearly a quarter of a century ; he was once 
my colleague, and a more energetic, competent, trained 
joiumalist I have never met, nor a more loyal and steadfast 
friend. His book is an epitome of the side of journalistic 
work to which he has devoted most of his professional life 
— though not all, for Mr Hibbert belongs to the same old- 
fashioned school of journalists as myself, who had to go 
through the severe mill, and to turn their hands to everything 
that tmned up, from an execution to a grand opera. But the 
subject that has attracted his attention more than any other 
is the stage. For many years he spent some hours of every 
night of the year in some form or other of a theatre or a music 
hall ; I believe he is one of the men who would prefer, if 
stranded in a small town, going to a penny gaff rather than 
remain amid the futile gossip of a smoke-room. This passion 
for the play is due to an iaexhaustible interest in the many 
forms of art which the stage presents, and to an equally in- 
exhaustible interest in the multiform and often thrilling drama 
that goes on within a play — ^namely, the men and women be- 
hind the scenes. Add to these qualities a passion for accuracy 
— ^a memory for names, dates, plays, even an interest in 
the financial side of dramatic production — and you will 



PREFACE 

understand how Mr Hibbert is a walking encyclopaedia of 
everything and of everybody who for close upon forty years 
have figured before the public. This, book, into which he 
has concentrated thousands of articles contributed to various 
journals, may well stand as perhaps the most complete and 
the most trustworthy record of the stage for recent years. 

To me, however, the chief interest of the book is its long 
series of portraits of the favourites of the public, not merely 
as they appeared before the footlights, but on their other side 
— what they were as men and women when they doffed the 
buskin and wiped oft the paint. That world behind the 
scenes owes little as yet to literature, for the romances in 
which the mummers have appeared, have hitherto been of 
either of two classes — those which professed to paint the 
sordid side and those which have depicted the people of the 
stage in the alluring colours of the matinee girl. Mr Hibbert 
is too sane and too conscientious a writer to describe the men 
and women of the stage, most of whom he has known per- 
sonally, from the one angle or the other. They live in his 
pages, not in lurid colours, but just as they are — ^men and 
women — living for the most part the commonplace and 
regular lives of the typical British family man or woman, 
with their own corroding cares and devastating sorrows in 
the midst of their absorbing work ; weeping behind the scenes 
when they have to smile to the public ; spending, in horn's of 
exhausting labour, the time that the rash public imagines to 
be devoted to mere pleasure-seeking ; with more ups and 
downs — ^largely owing to the precariousness of employment, 
which is the curse of the actor's or actress's life — ^than those of 
the average man of the other professions ; and often rising to 
dazzling heights of popularity and wealth to descend, owing 

vi 



PREFACE 

to change of taste, or to loss of health, to the abysses of 
poverty and premature death. 

There are chapters in this book, accordingly, which it is 
impossible to read without a quickening of the breath, with- 
out encountering many of the most tragic ironies of life — ^little 
and big. All of the chief figures are known to men of my 
generation ; most of them even to this generation. And as I 
read in these fascinating pages their real lives, learn their 
real selves, there comes to me the always saddening thought 
about the stage performer — ^that these beings of light and joy, 
who have made so many of our hours pass in tense and fine 
emotion or in healthy laughter, or amid the rapture that 
comes from fine elocution or melodious singing, have had in 
their own lives so little of the happiness they gave to others. 
How, often, they have vanished, forgotten and neglected, 
with such poor return for all the past hours of happiness, 
the imperishable memories, they have left to their fellow- 
beings. 

Some of the portraits are very striking. I refer the reader 
particularly to the life story of Jenny Hill — " the Vital 
Spark," as she was called — ^whose dash to the stage used to 
set so many hearts beating with expectation of really hilarious 
enjojmaent. There is a little scene with George Leybourne 
— ^who once set all the town roaring — ^in his closing days 
of illness, which is as dramatic as any scene the pen of a 
dramatist has painted of poignant pitifulness. I might go 
on referring to page after page of this kind, but as most 
pages have some such fascination for me, I might well make 
my preface as long as the book. 

I have dwelt on the dramatic side of the book, for it is its 
chief feature, but not its only one. Though provincial by 

vii 



PREFACE 

birth, Mr Hibbert became, like myself, the Cockney more 
devoted to the great capital than many of those born within 
its frontiers. London constantly is the background of the 
whole volmne, and many a time there rises that strange old 
London — now vanished — ^through which I lived myself in 
the seventies and the eighties. It is an almost incredible 
London, though so near, to those of this generation, with its 
public-houses open almost at all hours, its pot-houses, its 
poor buildings, its general air of a siu^vival from the hiccough- 
ing and roystering eighteenth century. Mr Hibbert gives 
a realistic though restrained picture, and the old city of dead 
things lives again. 

Finally, there are pages which describe the life of the old- 
time journalist, with figures now renowned, such as that of 
Barrie, once a subordinate in an ancient newspaper office. 
That school of journalists is now almost as dead a thing as 
other institutions of those past days ; and again one has a 
picture of a past in newspaper evolution, which will be 
interesting to a new generation. I feel, in standing between 
the reader and those pages, like the Manager that comes 
before the curtain in II Pagliacci ; like him I must with- 
draw before I have kept the audience too long waiting. So 
"Let the curtain rise " and the moving figures in Mr Hibbert's 
dramatic pages make their entrance. 

T. P. O'Connor. 



vui 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

CHAPTER I 
A London Backwater ..... i 

The Honourable Society of Gray's Inn ; and Gray's Inn 
Society— W. S. Gilbert's Early Days— Poets at Play— 
Nesbit of The Times 

CHAPTER II 

An Old Stock Company . . . . 7 

George Dance's First Play — Mrs Kendal's Girlhood — 
Suicide of Walter Montgomery — Cremome Gardens 

CHAPTER III 
In a Provincial Newspaper Office . . -15 

The Beginnings of J. M. Barrie — Stories of Dean Hole — 
Bendigo the Prize-fighter — Bernal Osborne's Wit 

CHAPTER IV 

Of Critics, Old and New . . . -23 

Clement Scott's Influence — Lyceum First Nights — 
Irving and Wilson Barrett — The Fight of La Dame 
aux Camdlias 

CHAPTER V 

The Story of the Music Hall . . -32 

From Pot-house to Palace — Early Comic Songs — 
" Champagne Charley " — Charles Dickens at the 
Music HaUs 

CHAPTER VI 
The London Pavilion . . . . .40 

Concerts in a Stable-3rard — Dr Kahn's Museum — Early 
Joint Stock Companies and their Fate — The Oxford 
and the Tivoli 

ix 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

CHAPTER VII 

The Old Mogul . . . . -46 

Nell Gwynne in Drury Lane — The Chairman — Dan 
Leno's First Appearance — Marie Lloyd's Noviciate 

CHAPTER VIII 

The Vital Spark . . . . .51 

Jenny Hill ; A Sordid Girlhood — A Dramatic Debut 
at the London PaviUon — A " Memorable At Home " — 
Bessie Bellwood 

CHAPTER IX 

Music Hall Society . . . . -56 

Dan Leno's Drawing-room — The " Great Lion 
Comique " — The Modesty of Genius — A Series of 
Sisters — Peer and Peri 

CHAPTER X 

East End Entertainment . . . • 63 

The Britannia Festival — " Saloons " and their Style — 
Champagne Charley and Hamlet — Pavilion Celebrities — 
Grand Opera at the Standard — Kate Vaughan's Origin 

CHAPTER XI 

The Lost Theatres of London . . .70 

Old-time Death-traps — ^Value of Theatre Property — 
Growth of the Suburban Houses — Boucicault at 
Astley's — Adah Isaacs Menken — ^Mrs Langtry and the 
Methodists — Mr Keith of New York 

CHAPTER XII 

Round Leicester Square . . . -83 

Early Victorian Horrors — Prize-fighters at the 
Alhambra — Leotard and Blondin — King Edward and 
the Empire — Winston Churchill — Prudes on the Prowl 
— Murder of Amy RoseUe 

CHAPTER XIII 

Singers who are silent . . . -91 

The first "Great"- Men of the Music Hall — Lions 
Comique — Music Hall Morals and Manners — Saved 
by a Song 



CONTENTS 



PAGE 



CHAPTER XIV 

Half-a-Century of Song . . . -97 

The Ditties of Demos — Slap Bang, here we are again — 
The Tichborne Claimant—" Motto " Songs 

CHAPTER XV 

Ballets and Ballet Dancers . . . .104 

The Cancan at the Alhambra — Police Interference — 
Some Old-time Favourites — Genee's Arrival — Kate 
Vaughan and the Gaiety School — Booming Maud 
Allan 

CHAPTER XVI 

American Cousins ..... 113 

Early American Visitors to London — Augustin Daly and 
Charles Frohman — The American Chorus Girl — Edna 
May's Girlhood — Negro Minstrelsy — Mr Gladstone as 
a Comic Singer 

CHAPTER XVII 

Night Clubs ...... 122 

The Receptions of Madam Cornelys — Early Victorian 
Night Houses — The Corinthian Club — Two Lovely 
Black Eyes — Sergeant Ballantyne behind the Scenes 

CHAPTER XVIII 

Dead-heads and Claquers .... 128 

How Theatres are packed — Some Subterfuges of Seat- 
beggars — Henry Irving and the Bailifi — The Chorus 
that sang too soon — M. Quelquechose, Organiser of 
Success 

CHAPTER XIX 

Princes and Palaces . . . . .135 

The " Royal Command " to the Music Hall — A Noble 
" Chairman -' — King Edward a Prisoner — Dan Leno at 
Court — A Terrible Tragedy 

xi 



CONTENTS 

FAGB 

CHAPTER XX 

Music Hall Agency ..... 142 

Hugh Jay Didcott — His Extravagance — Where Cele- 
brities were discovered — Many Marriages — The 
Quarrels of Artists and Managers 

CHAPTER XXI 

Counterfeit Presentments .... 147 

Stories of Stage Caricature — Oscar Wilde in Comedy 
and Opera — The " darned mounseer " — Irving and 
his Imitators — The Sensitive Sultan 

CHAPTER XXII 
One-horse Shows ..... 153 

Some Popular Entertainers — Cheer, Boys, Cheer — 
" Protean " Artists — Henry Irving as a SpirituaUst — 
Frederick Maccabe — ^Death in the Workhouse 

CHAPTER XXIII 
Empire-building ..... 158 

The AU-Conquering Music Hall — Edward Moss's Boy- 
hood — How a Piano was procured — His Vast Fortune, 
and Early Death 

CHAPTER XXIV 
Notes — or Gold ?..... 162 

Failure of the Royal Enghsh Opera — Palace Theatre 
Flotation — Its Early Struggles, and Eventual Profits — 
Living Pictures — And one of Charles Morton 

CHAPTER XXV 

Feverish First Nights ..... 168 

How a great Journalist died — The Marquis of Queens- 
berry on Marriage — Guy Domville — Actors'- En- 
counters with Audiences — Poet and Painter fight — 
An Interview with Queen Victoria 

xii 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

CHAPTER XXVI 

Some Editors ...... 177 

A Famous Philanderer — Practical John HoUingshead — 
His Gaiety Confession — The Marquis de Leuvllle — 
Augustus Harris and Literature— Edward Ledger as 
Lucullus 

CHAPTER XXVII 

The Westminster Aquarium . . . 185 

Church and Stage — ^Labouchere as a Showman — 
Many Monsters — Gymnastic Sensations — A Fight with 
the County Coimcil — M'Dougall 

CHAPTER XXVIII 

Concerning, Choristers .... 193 

Antiquity of the Show Girl — The First " Professional 
Beauty " — The Gaiety Stage Door — Erudite Chorus 
Girls — Training a Dancer — From the Chorus Room to 
Fame 

CHAPTER XXIX 

Musical Comedy ..... 202 

The First Musical Comedy — In Town — ^How " Owen 
Hall " arrived — Collaboration according to Gilbert and 
Sullivan — The George Edwardes Method 

CHAPTER XXX 

The Salaries of Celebrities .... 207 

Harry Lauder's Figure — Stage Stars in Variety — 
What Premiere Danseuses eaxn — Red-nosed Comedians' 
Reward 

CHAPTER XXXI 
Memorable Productions .... 215 

Gamblers in Management — Expenses and Earnings of 
West End Theatres — The Romance of Charley's Aunt — 
The Brave Days of Opera BoufEe — Irving's Extrava- 
gance — The Merry Widow 

xiii 



CONTENTS 

PAGE 

CHAPTER XXXII 

A Study in Stoll ..... 229 

Manager at Thirteen — Leybourne's Last Days — The 
Fantastic Frock Coat — Lessons in French — Literary 
Efforts 

CHAPTER XXXIII 

Society — Fifty Years Ago .... 234 

The Beginnings of the Bancrofts — Robertson and his 
Comedies — Tyranny of Burlesque — The Stage in the 
Sixties 

CHAPTER XXXIV 

The Gaiety and its Managers .... 246 
The Discovery of Nellie Farren — The Famous Quar- 
tette — Edward Terry's Oddities — A Pageant of Dead 
Drolls — The Real George Edwardes 

CHAPTER XXXV 

My Old Album ...... 257 

Three Famous Clowns — The Queen's Jester — An In- 
teresting Interview — Eccentricities of Celebrities — Mrs 
Weldon and Gounod 

CHAPTER XXXVI 

The Romance of the Cinema , . . 265 

Its Introduction to London — A Protege of the Music 
Hall — Millions Made, and Lost — Its Wondrous Future 

CHAPTER XXXVII 

Meditations among the Tombs .... 271 
A Fleet Street Graveyard — Fortunes sunk in News- 
papers — Popular Fiction and its Purveyors — Comic 
JournaUsm — The Halfpenny Press — The Sunday 
Dinner of Demos 

APPENDIX 

Alhambra Chronology ..... 279 

Empire Chronology ..... 282 

INDEX 285 

xiv 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



H. G. Hibbert .... 

Cremorne Gardens : " Maypole Dance " 

Cremorne Gardens 

The Banqueting Hall : " Cremorne " 

George Leybourne 

Jenny Hill .... 

John C. Heenan : " The Benicia Boy " . 

The Panopticon : Predecessor of the Alhambra 

Howes and Cushing's Circus at the Alhambra 

George Leybourne : " Champagne Charley,' 
Arthur Lloyd : "The German Band " 

Arthur Orton : " The Tichborne Claimant " 

Harry Clifton : " Paddle your own Canoe " ; John 
Hollingshead 

Mabel Gray .... 

Evans's Music Hall 

Sergeant Ballantyne 

" The Fight for the West End Stakes " (Charles 
Morton, Edward Weston, Jonghmans and 
Corri) . . . . . 

H. G. Hibbert (Caricature) 

H. J. Byron . . . . . 



Frontispiece 
To face page lO 
12 

14 
36 
52 
76 
84 
86 

94 
98 

102 

122 
124 
126 



166 
204 

234 



XV 



CHAPTER I 

A LONDON BACKWATER 

The Honourable Society of Gray's Inn ; and Gray's Inn Society — 
W. S. Gilbert's Early Days— Poets at Play— Nesbit of The Times 

NOBODY," said a whimsical creature at a dinner- 
party the other night, "is bom in London." 
And he proceeded to prove his statement by 
challenging the twenty guests. None of them could claim 
London birth ! The Registrar-General just romances in 
miUions. You can almost certainly confound him any time 
you range the fellows in the smoke-room at the club. 

But, if London have no children, with what tenderness 
and devotion her stepsons seek to attach her ! For my 
own part, I have not left her side a clear week in five 
and twenty years. Some kindly light led an uncouth 
youngster from the provinces, still dazed by the splendour 
of his appointment as acting editor of The Sunday Times, 
to domicile in Gray's Inn. As I write, I look through the 
same attic window, across the greensward where Francis 
Bacon marches in solitude, eye averted from the outrage of 
his Mount. Noise of the great world just reaches this quiet 
backwater — in infinite seduction of alternative ! 

" Do you know," said Clement Scott to me a while before 
his death, " that you are Uving in the very chambers which 
W. S. Gilbert occupied as a briefless barrister, where he wrote 
the Bah Ballads, and where he and I and Tom Hood used 



FIFTY YFARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

to work on Fun ? " Gilbert enlarged the memory, as to a 
" small and obscure coterie of yomig dramatists, critics and 
journalists," which made his chambers its home. "We 
caUed ourselves ' The Serious Family.' Tom Hood was the 
head of the family, and I was the enfant terrible. I was 
absolved from a two-guinea subscription in consideration of 
supplying a Stilton cheese, a rump-steak pie, a joint of cold 
beef, whisky and soda and bottled ale, every Saturday night 
for the term of my natural life. It was the worst bargain, 
financially, I ever made ; but I never regretted it." A 
reference to the club books, which he preserved, drew from 
Gilbert the mournful remark that he alone survived. His 
tragical end, it proved, was very near, completing the tale of 
" Jeff " Prowse, one of the convives, indiscriminately a rough 
writer on sport and of tender verse : 

-' Oh I friends, by whose side I was breasting 
The billows that rolled to the shore — 
Ye are quietly, quietly resting, 
To laugh and to labour no more."- 

Gilbert's joyous days in the Inn were busy days too. He 
was London correspondent and dramatic critic, black-and- 
white artist, fugitive poet and struggUng dramatist. Whether 
he still lingered in these shades when Pinero came to drive 
a quill in the office of a neighbouring lawyer, as Dickens once 
had done, I know not, nor whether the respectable William 
Black ever came over from No. 2 South Square. 

" The Serious Family " seems to correspond roughly 
with the roll of Fun's contributors, though Gilbert's list is 
notably richer by Artemus Ward. I lately heard a sordid 
youngster appreciating a conversation he had heard as 
" worth sixpence a line " to him. He clearly writes for 

2 



A LONDON BACKWATER 

good papers. I recall Edmund Yates's World fivepence a 
line as the high-water mark. But what would not any 
editor pay for an eavesdropping of " The Serious Family " ? 
I could beat my walls for an echo of its talk, and curse 
them for their dumbness. 

Among a hundred deUberately comic papers, Fun was 
the one real, long-lived rival of Punch. Bumand left Fun 
in dudgeon for its historic predecessor because the proprietor, 
a picture-frame maker and glass merchant, declined Mokeiana ; 
but Punch, on the other hand, scorned the Bab Ballads, and 
so, Gilbert, imdertaking to supply a column of matter and a 
half-page picture weekly, joined Hood's happy party, which 
included H. J. Byron, Tom Robertson, Arthur Sketchley 
(the parson-player who became famous as the creator of 
" Mrs Brown "), Henry Leigh, the sweet singer of Cockaigne, 
Charles Godfrey Leland (The Breitmann-Balladist), Jeff 
Prowse, J. F. SuUivan, with his eccentric art studies of the 
British workman, Matt Morgan the cartoonist, and Paul 
Gray, a young Irish painter of rare promise, whose early death 
from consumption seems to have eclipsed the sun a while in 
Bohemia of the sijcties. Matt Morgan came of theatrical 
folk, and acted a while ere he became a scene-painter. He 
bolted to America, it was said, because a wicked cartoon of 
the Prince of Wales had caused offence. So it had. But 
Morgan was in a general mess. He lived in America twenty 
years, and died there. 

Is there, I wonder, any part of London so stubbornly 
resisting the march of time as Holbom does ? In 1825 
The Sunday Times congratulated the authorities on " a step 
toward civilisation " in the way of a macadamised pave- 
ment. One of the last memorials of Dickens went lately, 

3 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

indeed — ^the Bell Inn with its galleried yard ; and Ridlers — 
swallowed up by new buildings, with its greater neighbour, 
Fumival's Inn — ^where the city fathers still gathered of an 
evening to drink hot brandy from huge tumblers, by the 
old-fashioned shillingsworth ; varying it with gin punch. 
When the Mercers' School fitted itself into Barnard's 
Inn, the watchman, who for years had sung the hours 
and the weather, was pensioned, but climg to his duties, 
and would linger through the night in the shelter of the 
closed gate, uttering his tunes until, with gentle force, 
they moved him on. But his brother of Ely Place still 
lingers ; and, in the extremity of that quaint cul de sac, 
which long retained the quality of Sanctuary, the Church of 
St Ethelreda is devoted to the Ancient Faith, as it was a 
thousand years ago. On the last Sunday of each April it 
speeds the procession of devout Catholics on their Walk from 
Newgate to Tyburn, in the path of a hundred martyrs. 
When for a few minutes the old houses of Staple Inn form 
the background of the pilgrims, no city of the world could, 
surely, set a picture so incongruous against the glare of the 
nineteenth century. 

My early visits to Staple Inn were to join the symposia of 
a group of young Oxonians, full of the disposition to teach 
old Fleet Street a new journalism. They would end a wild 
night by sallying forth from the chambers wherein tradition 
says Johnson wrote Basselas at fast hand, to provide the 
cost of his mother's funeral, and, in pyjamas, dance around 
the plane-tree in the small hours. Maybe the ghost of their 
great patron was not disturbed unkindly. "What, my 
lads, are you for a frolic ? " said he, and joined a merry party 
to Marylebone Gardens, urging them with voice and cudgel 

4 



A LONDON BACKWATER 

to destroy the fabric of an illumination which he declared 
dishonestly below the advertised specification. 

For years Nisbet of The Times was a resident of Staple 
Inn. One night he crossed Holbom to borrow a bottle of 
whisky, for, mircMle dictu, he had run out, and, in the terms 
of the transaction, invited a contingent from Gray's Inn to 
join a party made up of three poets, drunkenly defining God 
— one major, one minor, and a "tweenie." Swinburne is 
dead ; but the others hve, and so they shall not be identified. 
Nesbit was an amazing creature — a. Scotch reporter, grim 
and monstrous, who had attracted old Macdonald, manager 
of The Times, the " die-hard " of the blimdering Pamell 
campaign. When Mowbray Morris, that dilettante critic of 
the drama, who invented the immortal phrase " chicken and 
champagne " retired, Macdonald gave the post to Nisbet, 
who had never been credited with any special sympathy for 
the theatre, but who proved a sane and just judge. He ate 
heartily, drank heartily, turned out literary work of all kinds 
in prodigious quantities, and snatched intervals of deep 
slumber anywhere, in the club, or at the theatre. His reading 
was as voracious as his other appetites. He seemed able to 
master any subject, and to write on it with authority. The 
sexual afifinities of genius were his obsession. As a " side- 
line " to The Times, and in characteristic indifference to its 
protest, Nisbet edited one of the first of the hal^enny morn- 
ing papers, choosing his men with rare insight, and producing 
a paper of variety and interest. The Morning died, as the 
earlier Despatch had died. But it is safe to say that but for 
The Morning there would never have been a Daily Mail, 
which annexed most of its ideas and many of its men. 

Nisbet was the second of The Beferee's " Handbookers." 

5 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Barring experiments, there have been but four in nearly 
thirty years. Not in the history of journalism has a feature 
of such worth and importance maintained the distinction 
that Henry Sampson, J. F. Nisbet, David Christie Murray 
and Arnold White have given it. 

More sedate is the social life of the Inns to-day. Never 
more, I suppose, will a porter waking from his cups at three 
o'clock in the morning bethink himself that he forgot to ring 
Curfew, and noisily repair his error. Never again shall we 
see a world-famous comedian ride home in the small hours 
from the Artists' Ball at Chelsea, astride the horse he had 
attached to himself on deposit of a sovereign, from the wreck 
of his hansom. And, certainly, no more will one travel to 
the City for a penny beside a jolly coachman who drove the 
first bus over Holbom Viaduct, and who after fifty years 
— that ended, it seems, but yesterday — ^was still in the service 
of the London Omnibus Company, courteously saluted at 
every encounter by all his comrades. 



CHAPTER H 

AN OLD STOCK COMPA>fY 

George Dance's First Play— Mrs Kendal's Girlhood— Suicide of Walter 
Montgomery — Cremorne Gardens 

PREDESTINATION to the life of the theatre can 
alone explain the fact that the first clear memory 
of one whose youth was spent in puritanical repres- 
sion should be of a pantomime ; his earliest impression of 
London, visited at seven, Cremorne Gardens. In each case 
the agent was a nurse, cruelly admonished, I doubt not, for 
these surreptitious pleasure-makings ; but now, so gratefully 
thanked ! In 1865 Nottingham was provided with a New 
Theatre Royal — become a musty and dingy Theatre Royal 
last time I saw it. It opened with a pantomime entitled 
The House that John and William Built, in punning reference 
to the brothers Lambert, wealthy lace manufacturers, who 
owned it, and loved to haimt its shades. A scene, a song, a 
comedian, the principal girl, and a Cow with a Crumpled 
Horn are still vivid in my mind's eye, from my third year. 

Many of the great cities of the provinces have supplied 
material for thick volumes of theatrical history. Perhaps 
the turn of Nottingham will come. It is rich in story of the 
Robertsons, through three generations, to Mrs Kendal, whom 
I remember as the idolised ingenue of the stock company. 
There was an earlier Theatre Royal, which lingered years in 
degradation, as a music hall, the Alhambra ; then became 

7 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

a lace warehouse. At the Alhambra George Dance's first 
dramatic work was produced. It was a patriotic spectacle ; 
and, in return for the manuscript, he was to receive a prize- 
bred bull terrier. Either he got nothing ; or, a mongrel. 
I know there was bitter trouble. Dance was at that time 
engaged in local commerce, but diligently writing comic 
songs. One of his early works was : 

" His lordship winked at the counsel, 
Counsel vrinked at the clerk. 
The jury passed the wink around. 
And murmured ' Here's a lark.' " 

Another song has been erroneously attributed to him of 
late. I note the fact, because it had a melody so bewitching 
that Queen Victoria, hearing it played by a military band, 
asked for the words. They proved to be : 

" Come where the booze is cheaper. 
Come where the pots hold more. 
Come where the boss is a bit of a joss. 
Come to the pub next doo^." 

One might trace the history of the old Theatre Royal, 
Nottingham, to circuit days. Let a memory of, I think, its 
last lessee, Mrs John Fawcett Saville, suffice. She was a 
sweet woman, who sat in the parish church o' Simdays, her 
grey silk gown matching the curls carefully disposed about 
her cheeks. She gave the world two charming actresses. 
Miss Kate Saville and Miss Eliza Saville. Whenever her 
plans miscarried she revived " By Special Request," for EaM 
Lynne had not then been written, a play shaped from Cruik- 
shank's temperance broad-sheet The Bottle, and played herself 
the character of the drunkard's patient wife. " The bottle ! 
What shall I do with the bottle ? " she cried, hearing the 

8 



AN OLD STOCK COMPANY 

unsteady brute approach, and eyeing with apprehension 
the gin bottle, most carelessly exposed. " Break it, missis ! 
We're blooming weU sick of it," was the quick response 
from the gallery 

Wilson Barrett was a member of the stock company here. 
An old playgoer in the town cherished the photograph of a 
slim harlequin, mask down — ^his sceptical friends assured him 
that " it might be anybody." When I referred it to the then 
famous actor manager of the Princess's he cried : " That's 
me ! " And, duly authenticated, the picture was restored 
to its delighted owner. Barrett added a pathetic story of 
£ainting on the stage when first he joined the Nottingham 
company. A long walk and an empty stomach were re- 
sponsible. Here is a specimen week's work from his diary : 
Monday, Brabantio ; Tuesday, Cotieres in Louis XI. ; 
Wednesday, Stukeley in The Gamester (with Pizarro as an 
after-piece); Thursday, Baradas in £«cAZieu; Friday, Edmund 
in King Lear and Sir Charles in The Little Treasure ; Saturday, 
Sir Francis in The Bobbers and Major Galbraith in Rob Boy. 

An early, probably the first, manager of the New Theatre 
Royal was Walter Montgomery, who came to London, made 
what seemed to be a brilliant marriage, and, in a few hours, 
blew out his brains. The older men still discuss the tragedy 
in the Green Room Club ; but I believe the mystery has never 
been solved. Not long before Montgomery had written to his 
old Nottingham manager : " I am the happiest man alive." 
Of critical playgoers who saw him play Romeo, I have known 
none admit that he had seen a better. Once, in Nottingham, 
Montgomery used five Juliets in a week — ^Miss Madge 
Robertson, Miss Mattie Reinhardt, Miss Kate Saville, Mrs 
Scott Siddons and Miss Clara Denville. Miss Denville was a 

9 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

lovely creature, a member of an old theatrical family. She 
was engaged to that Lord Arthur Pelham Clinton who, half - 
a-century ago, disappeared under a cloud of scandal, and was 
reported dead, though a clerk with a firm of solicitors in the 
town told me it was his duty to make a regular remittance 
to the young nobleman, still living abroad. Clara Denville 
died ere, hardly, she had emerged from girlhood. Between 
her and Miss Madge Robertson there was eager rivalry ; 
and Montgomery was vmderstood to take Miss Denville's side. 
Anyhow when there was a question of a benefit for Miss 
Robertson the manager forbade it. There was a furious 
exchange of letters in the press. The Madge Robertson 
Benefit became a burning question. But neither abuse nor 
entreaty moved Montgomery ; and so a subscription was 
started, with the result that a respectable sum was raised. 
With part of the money a souvenir of the occasion was 
purchased, and the balance was put in a piu-se. Cash and 
testimonial were together handed to Miss Robertson by a 
deputation of friendly citizens, who made speeches that the 
reporters saved up scrupulously for posterity. 

Here is the interesting record of Mrs Kendal's work 
in Nottingham in 1866 : Laura Leeson in Time Tries All ; 
Cupid in Burnand's Ixion, "looking," as a local journalist 
said, "very pretty in. her pink dress and tights " ; Helen in 
The Hunchback ; PauUne in Delicate Ground ; Madeleine in 
Belphegor ; Annette (with song, / have a Silent Sorrow here) 
in The Stranger ; Pauline in The Lady of Lyons ; Opheha in 
Hamlet ; Maria in George Barnwell ; Mrs Lionel Lynx in 
Married Life ; Volante in The Honeymoon ; Nerissa in The 
Merchant of Venice ; Desdemona in Othello ; Mary Thorn- 
bury in John Bull ; Ninette in The Maid and the Magpie ; 

10 



AN OLD STOCK COMPANY 

the Singing Witch in Macbeth ; Margaret Ehnore in Love's 
Sacrifice ; May Edwards in The Ticket-of-Leave Man ; Julia 
Mannering in Guy Mannering ; Mrs Fitzsmyth in The 
Nottingham Ladies^ Clvb ; Miss Madge Robertson in the 
Chair ; Lady Percy in Henry IV., Part I. ; and Kate O'Brien 
(with songs. The Beating of my own Heart, and Kate 
Kearney) in Perfection. A fellow-actress with Madge 
Robertson was a Miss Hathaway, who created something of 
a sensation by pubUshing (twenty years later) The Diary of 
an Actress ; or. The Realities of Stage Life, a morbid, sordid 
story of professional life, of which Mrs Kendal accepted the 
dedication. Madge Robertson's successor in local esteem 
was Lottie Venne. 

A later lessee of the New Theatre Royal, Nottingham, was 
Lady Don, a vivacious actress, whose husband, a seven-foot 
soldier, adopted the profession of the stage, being, I imagine, 
the first person of title to use his aristocratic style as an 
actor. The pair came to bankruptcy. On the occasion of 
a farewell benefit somewhere in the west of England, Sir 
William Don, from the stage, delivered a passionate exhorta- 
tion to young men to avoid the fast life which had brought 
him to ruin. Almost my last memory of the Nottingham 
stage was that, visiting the town in the eighties as the en- 
gaging hero of The Lights of London, Mr Leonard Boyne 
married the local beauty. Miss Mary Everington. Their son 
distinguished himself lately in action in the European War. 

Cremome was the last of the " tea-gardens " which for 
centuries played so important a part in the popular entertain- 
ment of London, Its history just overlaps that of Vauxhall, 
fimaUy dispersed in 1859, after years of decay and tawdriness. 
But Vauxhall had a splendid history, extending over two 

II 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

centuries. Cremorne Gardens were destined to endure no 
more than thirty years. There is some uncertainty as to the 
exact date of the closure. In the Era Almanack, for years, 
appeared the statement, opposite 4th October : " The Licence 
of Cremorne lapsed for ever, 1877 " ; and this has been 
accepted as the date of the closure, though it is not. John 
HoUingshead had the impression that after the licence lapsed 
the gardens were kept open in a casual way, and that it would 
be hard to say when the gates were definitely locked. Not 
long since I tried to beat the bounds of the Cremorne for the 
edification of an American visitor. The once picturesque 
and beautiful estate of twelve acres is covered by uninteresting 
streets. There remains the Cremorne Tavern, once a kind of 
lodge to the gardens, but it is bare of relics, nor had the Hebe 
of the bar the least knowledge of her heritage. The expansion 
of Chelsea Farm began early in the eighteenth century. It 
came into the possession of Earl Cremorne in 1803 and took 
his name. In the forties it was an unsuccessful Stadium. 

In 1845 " Baron " Nicholson, better known in connection 
with an obscene kind of song-and-supper room entertainment 
called Judge and Jury, acquired Cremorne, and reconstructed 
it on the lines familiar to-day at Earl's Court and the White 
City. There were theatres and ball-rooms and circuses and 
dancing platforms and bandstands. But the natural beauties 
of Cremorne were greater than those of its successors, and 
the Thames completed them — its steamer service bringing a 
contingent of patronage too. Money troubles caused Nichol- 
son to associate with him Mr T. B. Simpson of the Albion, 
a famous theatrical tavern near Drury Lane Theatre. At 
the neighbouring Harp, Sheridan " took a glass of wine by 
his own fireside " while Drury Lane burned. At the Albion, 

12 







o $ 



o 



AN OLD STOCK COMPANY 

lessees of Drury Lane remained faithful to the old London 
coffee-house tradition till Harris's day. 

For a long time a charming comedy was enacted weekly at 
the Albion. Harris never lost the opportunity of employing 
an old-time actor fallen upon evil days, though it often meant 
for him a troublesome encounter with the veteran's dignity. 
A decrepit celebrity, to whom he paid four pounds a week, 
would rather starve than present himself at the treasury with- 
out a sovereign which he would tender to the paymaster in 
addition to his " packet " with the remark : " H'm ! Ha ! 
Can you oblige me with a five-pound note ? I want to send 
it away." A few minutes later, before the assembly at the 
Albion, it would be " H'm ! Ha ! A little of the wine of 
Scotland, dearie, and " (after a rustling in his waistcoat 
pocket) " I'm afraid I shall have to trouble you for change." 
And so a pleasant fiction that he was still paid in bank-notes 
was maintained. 

James Albery, the writer of one comedy that was nearly 
a classic, Two Roses, was an alumnus of the Albion ; Albery, 
who wrote his epitaph, invariably misquoted : 

" He revelled 'neath the moon, 
He slumbered 'neath the sun. 
He lived a life of going to do 
And died, with nothing done." 

Pettitt told with great gusto the story that he and Paul 
Meritt were discussing, in one of the Albion " pews," the 
details of a melodrama — ^in particular, planning a robbery 
with murder, when a horrified countryman in the next com- 
partment yelled for the police ! It reads well, but my old 
friend had the mischievous habit of inventmg these yams 
for receptive interviewers. 

13 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

In time Nicholson retired from Cremome with a grievance, 
and Simpson remained, to make, as he admitted, a himdred 
thousand pomids. In 1861 Cremome Gardens were ac- 
quired by E. T. Smith, one of the last entrepreneurs of Vauxhall 
— lessee and manager of almost every theatre, opera-house, 
music hall, circus and tea-garden in London in his day ; ex- 
police constable, auctioneer, publican, money-lender, news- 
paper proprietor and parliamentary candidate. He promoted 
at Cremorne a ludicrous reproduction of the Eglinton Tourna- 
ment. I recall a Man Fly, who thrilled me by walking across 
the lofty ceiling, head downwards; and a flying machine, 
which was a huge oiled silk envelope of a man. It was in- 
flated, and carried him a few feet from the ground from end 
to end of the great ballroom. A female Blondin crossed the 
river on a tight rope. A Fete of the Four Elements associ- 
ated the Fire King and the Man Fish, ingeniously eking out 
the quartet with a company of ground tximblers and a troupe 
of aerial gymnasts ! A painful sensation was caused in 1874 
when De Groof, a Belgian, attempting a parachute descent, 
fell and was killed. There was always a good ballet at 
Cremorne, mostly provided by the Lauri family ; and employ- 
ing Kate Vaughan and her sister, Susie, as members of the 
Vaughan troupe, which did a much admired Black Dance. 
But the night scenes grew more and more disreputable. 
King's Road was rendered well nigh uninhabitable by the 
stream of hansoms bearing noceurs and naughty dames from 
east to west, and back. Smith retired in 1869. John 
Baum was his successor. In 1877, on whatever date, decency 
forbade Cremome. And London was left ten years without 
alfresco entertainment till the Health Exhibition took up 
the tale. 

14 




o 



o 



CHAPTER III 

IN A PROVINCIAL NEWSPAPER OFFICE 

The Beginnings of J. M. Bar rie— Stories of Dean Hole— Bendigo the 
Prize-fighter— Bernal Osborne's Wit 

THERE was a diffident knocking at the door of The 
Nottingham Daily Journal on a Sunday night. 
On the dark landing, a-top of a broken stair- 
case, stood a small delicate youth unmistakably from 
Scotland. 

" My name is Barrie. I am the new leader writer ! " 
He proceeded to explain that he was " a-awfully tired," 
after the long journey from Edinburgh, He had taken the 
precaution of writing, in the train, a leading article which 
he hoped would satisfy the occasion. And he would like to 
go home to bed. The leading article was written in pencil, 
on both sides of the two fly-leaves, yellow glazed, of a pocket 
edition of Horace. The writing was minute and regular and 
most legible — apparently; Actually, it was the tonic record 
of a Scottish drawl, softly extended, and sweetly imintelligible. 
Barrie's association with " the oldest provincial daily paper," 
thus begun, extended over two years, and was terminated, 
it may be, because of the ultra-fantastic quality of the con- 
tributions of " The Little Minister " ; it may be because he 
asked for an increase of salary at a moment when dubiety 
as to the commercial worth (in Nottingham), and saneness, 
of his humour had become acute. 

15 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Barrie first asked three pounds a week in response to an 
advertisement. "H'm, ye-es," said the senior proprietor. 
" We pay monthly. That will be twelve poimds a month." 
Barrie, I got to know, was a spendthrift in generosity of 
certain kinds. But the ingenious reduction of three pounds 
per week to two pounds seventeen and fourpence first 
perplexed and then eternally angered him. 

An interval of two weeks divided our installation. I was 
twenty ; and, conscious that I had lied a little about my age, 
I modestly asked two pounds per week, getting, by the same 
process of reckoning, a fraction less than thirty-seven 
shillings ! The proprietors were two estimable and kindly 
men, very rich, who had inherited the paper from their father, 
an eccentric solicitor of great account in midland counties 
politics in the fifties. They grimly watched the fine old paper 
die. 

My instructions were to take up my duties at four o'clock 
on a Sunday afternoon. The key of the vast building, contain- 
ing thousands of pounds worth of machinery, was left for me 
under the front door mat. In imdisturbed solitude I got 
together the basis of the next day's paper from contributed 
manuscript and predatory snipping, on which material the 
composing staff set to work at half-past eight, for the rule 
was that the mechanical workers must have an opportunity 
to attend evening church. Literary souls had to arrange 
salvation at a morning service — or, not. At a quarter past 
eight the foreman printer, immortahsed, as all the details 
of the establishment were, in Barrie's first pubhshed novel. 
When a Man's single, entered the room. 

" Good-evening," he said. " I suppose you're the new sub- 
editor. I'm the foreman printer. I might say I run this 

i6 



IN A PROVINCIAL NEWSPAPER OFFICE 

place. I've been here, man and boy, for thirty-nine years, 
and I've seen thirty-seven young fellows in your chair. I 
hope we shall get on." 

It was aU true. He spoke of the senior proprietor as " W. " 
and the junior proprietor as " Him." He had two names for 
"copy." There was "noos," to which he attached im- 
portance according to its local application. To be sure he 
could cite Macaulay as a precedent. And there was mere 
literary matter, which he called " tripe." 

Barrie's work, acutely literary, was always in peril ; and 
he suffered horribly. Our autocrat had a soft spot, but 
Barrie refused to negotiate it. For myself, I once procured 
the insertion of an historic speech on Protection by Henry 
Chaplin by marking it the introduction to Mansfield Flower 
Show. So it became " preference copy." 

Barrie's contract, for, " say, twelve pounds a month," 
was to supply two columns of literary matter per day. One 
was to consist of a leading article, as to which general, but 
never particular, instructions were given, in an eight-page 
letter from the senior proprietor. Barrie often remarked 
that he had managed to decipher everything but the 
rehgion of the worthy man. One day he told me he 
had arrived at a conclusion on the point. A splendidly 
generous act, perpetrated in secrecy, was his key to the 
cipher. 

We had another important contributor — a man of a good 
£amily, become garrulous on sport, about which he wrote a 
weekly article, for seven and sixpence, sacro sand, at what- 
ever length it came in. Dean Hole, then Vicar (and Lord of 
the Manor) of Caunton, had delivered a delightful speech — 
he used to write his addresses and carry them in his pocket. 
B 17 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Whether or not he learned them I know not, but manuscript 
and oration compared with verbal exactitude. He lent me 
this speech, for liberal quotation in The Journal. But the 
sporting article came in, as the deluge. I penned an apologetic 
note to Dean (then simply Canon) Hole, explaining that if 
he found his speech curtailed he would at any rate find 
" Diophantus's latest notes on the St Leger " available. He 
replied : 

" Dear yoxjng Friend, — 

Delightful Diophantus ! 
Desolate — Reynolds Hole ! " 

As a preacher, as a great Anglican, as a gardener, as a littera- 
tem-, as a wit. Dean Hole is well known. A schoolfellow 
of mine was his curate and once entered the cottage of a 
bed-ridden dame. A broad, black-coated back obscured the 
fireplace. " Hullo, Tom ! " said the vicar, looking over his 
shoulder. " Come to read old Betty a chapter ? Wait till 
I've made this linseed poultice." 

Dihgent research into the files of The Nottingham Journal 
would probably disclose, just as the columns of its prosperous 
competitor. The Nottingham Guardian, enclose, in its " Poet's 
Comer," some of the gems of Mortimer Collins, many char- 
acteristic sayings of that corrosive wit, Bernal Osborne, who 
contested the borough from time to time. " I stand before 
you," he said to the soon fascinated electors, " the only 
candidate without a handle to his name." His competitors 
were Viscount Amberley and a Mr Handel Cosham. Those 
were the days of the hustings, and I well remember being 
taken as a child to inspect the debris in the great market- 
place — eggs, stones, what not, were hurled at the candidates 

i8 



IN A PROVINCIAL NEWSPAPER OFFICE 

as they appeared on the temporary platform to return thanks 
for the great or little support they had received. 

In that same great market-place I recall the prize-fighter, 
William Thompson or " Bendigo." He had been converted 
by a local evangeUstic pork butcher, " Jemmy " Dupe, and 
he sat, a gaimt grey old man wearing a broad-cloth suit, but 
his colours of " bird's-eye " blue, beside a barrow, on which 
were displayed his championship belts and the Bibles that he 
sold. Ever and anon he would spring to his feet and sing : 

" Ho I The Devil had me once 
But he let me go I 
Yes he let me go I 
Bendigo I "- 

But we talked of joumaUsm. One of my early duties 
was to record a concert given by local scholars who had dis- 
tinguished themselves at the Royal Academy of Music. They 
brought a star — ^Miss Marie Etherington, who is now Miss 
Marie Tempest. 

Barrie wrote for The Nottingham Journal five leaders a 
week, a weekly colunm of gossip signed " Hippomenes " — 
many of these essays were reprinted in My Lady Nicotine, 
having in their early state been infinitely beyond the average 
reader of The Journal — and book reviews, carefully measured 
with a tape, to make up the tale of twelve columns per week. 
The Saturday " leader " was written for years by a local 
accountant of immense erudition, amazing views, and a 
literary style founded on Cobbett. His lucubration always 
filled two columns. I remember an article that began : 
"Gk)d moves ('tis said) in a mysterious way. But the 
Nottingham waterworks company . . ." Barrie used to 
open the Saturday paper and fling it from him in a rage. 

19 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Throughout his life in Nottingham he made no friends, was 
morbidly unhappy, and yet cherished the belief that he had 
a sacred trust in the editorial columns of The Journal. He 
had an immense sense of his importance. It was not 
vanity — just a natural contempt for all his surroundings 
and a natural consciousness of his superiority. There was 
a corresponding constraint towards him on the part of the 
local newspaper men. And yet there were such good fellows 
among them ! 

They had a curious little club, meeting in a tavern, called 
" The Kettle." I sought it out a while ago, but it had gone. 
Barrie went once or twice, but was frankly disgusted. One 
of its members is a well-known barrister now. Another is 
headmaster of a public school. Another is reader of fiction 
for a firm outpouring penny novelettes. Another became, 
indiscriminately, a fascinating writer about Parliament, and 
an exigeant judge of bull-dogs. Dear, eccentric Dick Mann, 
with whom I have shared my schoolboy himdred lines, a 
lodging-house bed and a scarce sovereign ! Fleet Street 
seemed to change when you went ! 

Barrie's first play was written in Nottingham, on approval, 
for Minnie Pahner. It " discovered " her, sitting on a mantel- 
piece. It was called, I think, Polly's Dilemma, and it was 
printed as a detail of the Christmas issue of The Nottingham 
Journal, so that we might borrow the type, economically 
make it into a booklet, and so try to sell the play. His first 
fiction was published in Bow Bells — twenty thousand words 
of succulent sentiment, for which he got three guineas. He 
bought some desired print, The Greek Slave, I think, with the 
money, and pasted the story on the back as indicating its 
fons et origo. 

20 



IN A PROVINCIAL NEWSPAPER OFFICE 

His lonely rooms in a suburban terrace backed on to the 
garden of my home. My sweet mother, in her expansive 
kindness, would go and signal to him that tea was a-going — 
midland counties tea, of many attributes. There was once 
an impossible interval and he made amends for his absence 
with a stiU treasured copy of David Elginbrod, inscribed " To 
the Face at the Window. He cometh not, she said." Dear 
soul ! She specialised on forlorn journalists. There is a 
millionaire newspaper man of to-day to whom she had no 
more to say than : " You poor, neglected thing ! Just turn 
out all your socks." And mended them. 

Barrie of those days fancied himself as an actor. He 
would on the slightest provocation give an imitation of Irving 
as Romeo and Modjeska as Juliet. In his playlet, Rosalind, 
I think I recognise an encounter with a well-known actress of 
that day, Marie de Grey, who once startled the supper-room 
of a restaurant by impulsively reciting the epilogue to As 
You Like It. His rooms were curiously devoid of books. 
There was a Horace — ^that very Horace of the yellow, leader- 
written fly-leaves — ^and there was Bartlett's Familiar Quota- 
tions. If ever he were tempted to use a quotation he turned 
to Bartlett, and if it were among the Familiar, out it 
went. 

He was the most shy, the most painfully sensitive creature, 
with an exquisite delicacy in regard to women. He drank 
nothing. And he used to assure me that after a most 
conscientious trial he found smoking detestable. Walking 
was a joy to him. I suppose we must have covered 
hxmdreds of miles of Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire 
together. He was years ahead of me in setting that 
first, rapturous, proprietorial foot on the pavement of 

21 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Fleet Street in that proud ability to say, Civis Romanus 
sum. 

Fot the proprietors of The Nottingham Journal economised 
on him, and bought their editorial opinions from an agency 
at three shillings and sixpence a column all in type complete. 
Two years later they economised on me. 



22 



CHAPTER IV 



OF CRITICS, OLD AND NEW 



Clement Scott's Influence — Lyceum First Nights — Irving and Wilson 
Barrett — The Fight of La Dame aux Camilias 

WHEN Rejane last visited London its dramatic 
critics conferred upon her their new, super- 
erogatory distinction of a dinner. The most 
interesting feature of the occasion was the facility with which 
three of their number delivered speeches in French — ^under- 
stood, I believe, by most of their colleagues ! It is pretty 
safe to say that when, after much negotiation on the part 
of John Hollingshead, the Comedie Frangaise first visited 
London at the Gaiety in 1879, no then important writer 
about the drama could have performed such a feat. One 
or two had a literary acquaintance with the French 
drama. But even the adaptations from the French, by 
critics and others, which for a long time pervaded the 
English stage, were done from literal translations first made 
by a hack. 

Director Jules Claretie of the Comedie Frangaise was 
terrified by the prospect of English criticism ; and insisted 
on the importation of Francisque Sarcey as a detail of his 
contract — ^the one heavy expense which Hollingshead, a 
most liberal manager, deeply and for ever resented. Apropos : 
The Comedie Frangaise also brought on the scene Arthur 
Shirley, to become a most prolific writer of melodrama, 

23 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

mostly suggested by French plays. Shirley was a North 
London rate collector, with a curiously intimate and facile 
knowledge of the French stage, and he was engaged as 
secretary to the visitors. One or two English newspaper 
proprietors sought the aid, in dealing with the French season, 
of men who speak French and write English. Such employ- 
ment brought into London journalism two of the most 
distinguished dramatic critics of to-day ! 

What Clement Scott loved to call the " critical bench " of 
twenty-five years ago presents a strange contrast to that 
of to-day. It is discreet to make the comparison general. 
Bench was Scott's word ; but he was the least judicial of 
critics — a passionate advocate, always ; sometimes in the 
attitude of prosecution, more often in the attitude of defence. 
The best criticism of to-day^ — ^most of the criticism of to-day 
— is infinitely superior to that of yesterday, in its desire to be 
judicial and in its effort toward literary distinction — one is 
particular to exclude the steadily degrading personal para- 
graph, and the " light, bright stuff," in substitution for a 
critical review, poured into some Fleet Street dailies to meet 
the exigencies of ever earlier publication, ere the performance 
in the theatre has well begim. 

But if the critic of to-day is an improvement on the critic 
of yesterday — what of the day before ? Until Clement Scott 
came into his own, criticism was, as it had been for years, say, 
from the disappearance of John Forster and George Henry 
Lewes, perfunctory, iminteresting, often inspired by strong 
prejudice, and the venal interest of playwriting or adapta- 
tion. I am not speaking, of course, from personal knowledge 
— from that acquired by casual research through old files, 
and from the report of old-time managers. To a man, the 

24 



OF CRITICS, OLD AND NEW 

Early Victorian critic was a hawker of plays — eking out one 
ill-paid employment by another. E. L. Blanchard poured 
forth his encyclopaedic knowledge for less money per thousand 
words than a badly sweated typist would charge for copjang 
to-day. Maddison Morton, the Lope de Vega of Adelphi 
farce, was content with a five-pound note. I believe that 
Henry Neville paid at the rate of fifty pounds an act for 
The Ticket-of-Leave Man, which might mean fifty thousand 
poxmds to a lucky author of to-day. It was, of course, an 
adaptation, made without " by your leave," or " thank you," 
or any form of acknowledgment, according to the custom 
of that day, when managers would subject a manuscript to 
detective inquiry, so that if it proved to be an adaptation 
they had a ready resort from an exorbitant " author," to 
some cheaper translator. 

Sidney Grundy, who had been a dramatic critic, mostly 
hated the fraternity, and to his friends made no secret of the 
originals of the two scamps he pilloried in An Old Jew. This 
savagery, and its unfortunate title, ruined a play of much 
merit. Tom Robertson, an earlier caricaturist of the craft, 
was kinder. Still, Oxenford of The Times was rendered 
furious by the Owls Roost scene, in Society. Sitting in the 
Arundel Club, a delightful symposium with a sub-Savage 
flavour, he declared that " Tom had no right so to disgrace 
his pals, depicting them with a clay pipe in one hand, and 
a glass of gin and water in the other." A shout of 
laughter brought to the notice of the old man that in 
one hand he held a clay pipe, in the other a glass of gin 
and water. He angrily threw them into the hearth, and 
left the club. 

Scott was certainly the first writer in a London daily 

25 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

paper who appealed, on behalf of the theatre, to the popular 
imagination. He brought into use a new phrase, long, now, 
in disuse. The play-going public asked eagerly, as it has 
never asked apropos any other critic, not : " What does 
The Telegraph say ? " but : " What has Scott to say ? " though 
his work for the most part was anonymous. With his vivid 
column on the morrow, as compared with a dull paragraph 
on the ensuing Saturday, which had been the custom, a new 
interest in the theatre arose ; and the " first night " became 
a function. Celebrities grew common, eager to witness the 
actual production of a play, whereas the habit of the " best 
people " had been to wait a while. 

Managers were alert to the importance of this fact. Bram 
Stoker, Irving's indefatigable Heutenant, marshalled his 
distinguished guests ; and Willie Wilde formulated a para- 
graph for The World, which became the type for society 
journahsm : " Baroness Burdett Coutts was in her box with 
Mr Ashmead Bartlett in attendance ; Mr Chamberlain, who 
was accompanied by his pretty young wife, discoursed of 
orchids to Archdeacon Sinclair ; Mr Theodore Watts brought 
Mr Swinburne ; Miss Braddon outlined her new novel to Su- 
Edward Lawson ; Dr Morell Mackenzie congratulated Sir 
Edward Clarke on his speech in the Eenge mystery trial," and 
so on. After the play there would be an informal party on 
the stage. A nod and a beck from Bram Stoker was the 
invitation — ^naturally, abused in time. 

Stoker was a big, shambling fellow, red bearded, carelessly 
dressed, always in what he called a " ma-artal hurry " ; for 
the Lyceum, so apparently ecclesiological, was, as a business 
structure, chaotic. Stoker was a Dublin journalist when 
Irving appreciated and annexed him. He became the 

26 



OF CRITICS, OLD AND NEW 

actor's faithful and lifelong servant. Afterwards, it proved 
that he might have made a reputation as a novelist. 

At the Princess's Theatre, Wilson Barrett tried a foolish 
rivalry — celebrities, supper-party, society patron-saint and 
all. Lady Jeime was the good fellow's social sponsor — for 
he was a good fellow, with all his weaknesses. Nothing could 
emphasise the difference between the two actor managers so 
strongly as their dress did. Irving's huge silk hat, monkish 
fiice, iron-grey hair, loose Chesterfield were as subtly dis- 
tinguished as they were carefully imobtrusive. Barrett liked 
to march the Row in a velvet coat, a slouch hat and a 
Quartier Latin tie. So it was, all through 1 He made an 
income sufficient even for his extravagances till he produced 
Hamlet, which ruined him. He could not indulge this 
ambition qmetly, and get it over, but started angry scholars 
on an adventurous controversy — ^apropos his textual out- 
rages ; then finally began to take himself au sSrieusc as a 
Shakespearean conuuentator. 

Barrett was a genius all the same. How much his earlier 
authors learned from him we shall never know — nothing, 
according to their angry protests, when he preferred a modest 
claim. But years later he produced valuable evidence — The 
Sign of the Cross, to wit. He indubitably wrote that great 
play. I call it great for the reason that it put fifty thousand 
pounds into the pocket of the creditors who had driven him 
from London ; and another fifty thousand pounds into his 
own. Archer described it as " a combination of the penny 
dreadful with the Sunday-school picture-book ... a 
Salvationist pantomime, lacking a harlequinade." Hard 
luck, that after his noble struggle and eventual triumph he 
lived so short a time to enjoy his aftermath. I am afraid the 

27 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

tjrpical appeal of The Sign of the Cross — pace its clerical recom- 
mendation, and even Gladstone's — was to the old lady who 
witnessed Miss Haidee Wright's torture scene many times, 
and would come panting up the stairs to the ticket-taker 
with the anxious query : " Has she shrieked yet, mister ? " 

Barrett had his Fidus Achates too — ^an amazing adventurer 
known as Henry or Daddy Herman, who had been half 
blinded as a Confederate soldier in the American War, and 
who used to play practical jokes with his glass eye. He 
held it out to an extortionate cabman once, who, believing 
he had maimed his man, drove away full speed. Herman's 
real name was not Darco, as it is generally given. He had 
yet an earlier. His mind teemed with play plots and 
stories. He was an admirable metteur en scene, and an 
ardent lover of Dickens. He quarrelled with most of his 
collaborators, though he was as generous as he was hot 
tempered. He squandered thousands ; and died poor. For 
fuller particulars, see Christie Murray's novel. Despairs 
Last Journey. 

Homeward, to my text, which was dramatic criticism; 
and, in conclusion : Scott's method was to abandon himself 
to a passion of praise, or invective. He was often imjust — 
as in his attack, shortly after he had become a Catholic, on 
Malcolm Salaman's fine play, A Modern Eve, which suc- 
cumbed — always extravagant, and always interesting. 
He claimed to be a super-missionary of the stage ; and 
got terribly vain of his power. I have heard actors and 
managers speak of him with passionate hatred. But I 
should say he doubled the importance of the theatre as a 
commercial enterprise, for no writer, before or since, has 
so stimulated the public interest. 

28 



OF CRITICS, OLD AND NEW 

One of Scott's earliest exploits in journalism was to procure 
the imprisonment, for libel, of James Mortimer, the founder 
of The London Figaro — prototype of all the smart penny 
papers of to-day, and training school of a second famous 
critic, William Archer. Its stand-by was a very character- 
istic humorist, known as O.P.Q. Philander Smith, actually 
Aglen A. Dowty, a good-looking civil servant, whose articles 
were wont to be illustrated by a monstrous caricature of the 
writer. 

Scott was eager to avow the offending article. Mortimer 
sternly refused to permit this, and chivalrously took his 
pimishment, as Edmund Yates did, later, in a less worthy 
cause. Mortimer was a grim old man, savage in speech, 
with a heart of gold. His unsuccessful plays numbered 
hundreds. He was one of the finest chess-players of his 
day, and an inveterate gambler at Monte Carlo. For many 
years he was the confidential secretary of Napoleon III. ; 
afterwards, the trusted friend of the Empress Eugenie. He 
was shockingly hard up in his old age ; but I can still hear 
the torrent of blasphemy he let loose when he was asked to 
write a vie intime of his beloved patrons. 

It is Mortimer's distinction to have secured the sanction of 
the Lord Chamberlain for a play pretty faithfully translated 
from La Dame aux Camelias — namely. Heartsease — in which 
first Helen Barry, then the Polish actress Modjeska appeared. 
There had been many previous attempts, but the censor even 
declined one which landed Margaret in the haven of respect- 
able matrimony. What Patti had been allowed to sing in 
Traviata, and what Bernhardt had been allowed to say in 
French on the intervention of the Prince of Wales (Edward 
VII.), Mortimer was tardily allowed to do into English, on 

29 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

the condition that he did not exploit his play as an 
adaptation from Dumas'. Hence, Heartsease. 

Contemporaries of Scott were Joseph Knight, an immense, 
big-bearded barrister, who might have sat for a statue 
of Rabelais ; and Moy Hiomas, a coimterfeit presentment of 
Lord Wolseley. Moy Thomas had an entertaining habit of 
conveying his opinions, often in crude language, to his friend, 
sometimes across six rows of stalls. They were both men 
of great learning, and that gave their critical work its par- 
ticular value. Thomas was one of the old guard of The 
Daily News ; also a magazine writer. Knight wrote for The 
Globe, The Daily Graphic and The Athenceum ; also edited 
Notes and Queries. He ^ccimiulated many thousand 
books about the stage, and seldom left the Garrick Club till 
morning; both habits giving his daughter and devoted 
companion, Mrs Ian Robertson, grave concern. 

I own to a deep affection for the memory of one old 
Bohemian, who had seen and enjoyed much life, and who 
expressed conmionsensical views in strong language. He 
detested the new journalism, as I am sure the new journalist 
would despise him. He would step into the Savage on his 
way from the theatre to the office ; and, if someone tempted 
him to reminiscences of the prize-ring, imhappy play — it 
was forgotten ! But a kind friend would quietly slip up 
to Fleet Street and repair the default, by writing his notice. 

Picture him, then, marching into the Gaiety bar, one 
morning, emptying a tumbler of brandy-and-soda, then 
scanning his daily paper. " There, my brave boy," he cried 
to his neighbour. "That is what you call journalism, of 
the good old school. Half-a-column of Umpid English. 
God knows when, or where, or how I wrote it. I don't ! 

30 



OF CRITICS, OLD AND NEW 

When you can do that " But the other fled, lest the 

vainglory of the bibulous veteran should tempt an outcry 
that the " brave boy " in good-fellowship and secrecy had 
done that very thing ! A conceited youngster appealed to 
him at the first performance of The Best Man at Toole's. 

" I say, Mr ! Billington's hunting-breeches are all 

•wrong." " Each man to his knowledge, my lad," said the 
old Fleet Streeter. " The pawnbroking's rotten" 

These critics, and their colleagues of old time, were not 
the " guests of the theatre," to use Sir Herbert Tree's courtly 
phrase, but peremptory inspectors. Every newspaper of 
standing had a printed form, or " order," which its editor 
would sign, demanding seats for the bearer — the bearer being 
possibly the genuine critic ; or, any other body, from the 
signatory's mother-in-law to the lady who did his washing — 
and friend. When I joined the staff of The Sunday Times 
in 1890 there was a large stock of these orders still in hand. 
The Era used them still a few years ago. 



31 



CHAPTER V 

THE STORY OF THE MUSIC HALL 

From Pot-house to Palace — Early Comic Songs — "Champagne 
Charley " — Charles Dickens at the Music Halls 

IF the old-time critic of the theatre were of a perfunctory 
habit, the music hall was nearly ignored in the news- 
papers of the sixties and seventies — now and then a 
trivial paragraph, in an obscure niche ; now and then a 
trumpery " descriptive " article, lurid and iminformatory. 
In the eighties, whenever theatrical topics were few, the 
critic with space to fill would betake himself to a variety 
house, and write of it in a condescending way, professing 
surprise at the cleverness and interest of the entertainment 
he found there — though he 'had probably been a regular 
attendant. Finally, there was an invasion of the music 
hall by young poets, who wrote of it in foolish rhapsody. 
Somebody coined the delectable phrase, " From pot-house to 
palace," which is not indeed an unfair summary. And 
Charles Morton was styled the " Father of the Music Hall." 
He was hardly that ; nor was the Canterbury the exact 
origin of the variety theatre. The Canterbury was indeed 
the oldest music hall, of its distinction, with an uninterrupted 
history. But there were halls of importance in existence 
when Morton, who developed from a waiter into a sporting 
publican, took the Canterbury Arms. There were, notably, 
the not distant Winchester, and the Rotunda, near 

32 



THE STORY OF THE MUSIC HALL 

Blackfriars Bridge, now the Arena of prize-fights. The first 
song-and-supper room added to the Canterbury Arms, which 
had Vauxhall Gardens for a still active neighbour, was a very- 
modest affair. The vast variety theatre which we know is 
a third, or even a fourth, rebuilding of the original structure. 
Morton, at the outset, probably attached more importance 
to the betting list displayed in his bar — said to be the last ; 
though other " list men," for instance " Bob " Osborne, who 
died a while ago, in extreme old age continued in the business, 
pinning their lists to the trees in Hyde Park, and repudiating 
its legal definition as a " place." 

I would not identify the Canterbury as the first music hall 
— ^nor the others. Rather, I would trace its origin to 
Bartholomew Fair, as the earliest minister of a form of 
entertainment less conventional than that of the theatre. 
The Victorian song-and-supper room — ^the Coal Hole, and the 
Cider Cellars — ^provided a vessel, into which the fairs, the 
tea-gardens, the circuses, the saloon theatres each flimg an 
ingredient. And so you get the modem music hall, which 
was never in a state of evolution so active as, at this moment, 
it is. In ten years it will develop something differing com- 
pletely from what it is to-day — differing more than the music 
hall of to-day differs from its predecessors. 

Too much stress is laid apologetically on the glee-singing 
that certainly formed an important part of the Canterbury 
programmes, and on the fact that half-a-dozen vocalists 
standing in a row in preposterous evening dress gave the 
first performance in London of Gounod's Faust— this by way 
of reproach to the less exalted taste of the music hall patron 
of to-day. In truth, the Canterbury Music Hall owed its 
success not to " high class " music but, as all music halls have 
c 33 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

done in the meanwhile, to a comic singer or " vocal comedian" 
seduced from the song-and-supper rooms at the West End — 
Sam Cowell, an immigrant from America ; and, at the outset, 
a singer in Grand Opera. Cowell, to judge from his pictures, 
dressed his parts carefully. His favourite medium was a 
doggerel narrative running to many verses, such as Hamlet, 
Prince of Denmark : 

" A hero's life I'll sing ; his story shall my pen mark. 
He was not the King, but Hamlet, Prince of Denmark. 
His mammy she was young — the Crown she'd set her eyes on. 
Her husband stopped her tongue ; she stopped his ears with pizon." 

Here is his version of Faust : 

'-'■ Once upon a tin^e in Gottingen, 

A fine old German city, 
A student lived who, o'er his books, 

Each day and night would sit he. 
His mind and mem'ry were well stored 

With every kind of knowledge ; 
In fact, so long o'er books he pored. 

He was a walking college.- 
For forty years he struggled hard 

With spirits good and evil. 
He tried in vain to raise the wind — 

At last he raised the deviL" 

Take again Oliver Twist : 

" Now, gals and boys, I 'opes you're veil. 
Yes ! thankee, I'm the same. 
Of course you don't know me at all — 
The Dodger is my name.- 
You've read my adventures written by Boz. 
Says I, Who the Dickens is he? 
About a parish 'prentice lad 
Who was all of a twist — like me.'-* 

34 



THE STORY OF THE MUSIC HALL 

Such quaint ditties as The Bat-catcher's Daughter and 
Villikins and his Dinah, ill-starred lovers who " vos a-buried 
in von grave," were also favourites of Cowell's. The latter 
g^ts its vogue from the " great little " Robson, and was 
maintained in popularity within modem memory by Toole. 
Here is a typical song of Sam Cowell's, which every street 
boy knew by heart in its day : 

" As I was a-vaUdng down by the sea-shore, 
Vere the vinds and the vaves and the vaters did roar, 
With the vinds and the vaves and the vaters all round. 
I heard a sweet voice making sorrowful sound. 

Singing, Ri-fol-de-riddle-ol-de-ray, 

My love's dead — him I adore, 
And I never, no never, shall see him no more."- 

Clement Scott put it on record that Cowell was the " best 
comic singer he ever heard." Morton was never weary of 
singing his praises, and paid him eighty pounds a week, an 
immense sum in those days, when capable comedians would 
appear at the song-and-supper rooms for the honorarium of 
three half-crowns per night and two hot drinks. Cowell 
took great liberties with his audiences. His exit from 
Evans's was dramatic. "Mr Cowell is late again," 
cried angry old Paddy Green. " You've made him your 
god, gentlemen, but, by God ! he sha'n't be mine ! " 
CoweU took liberties with his constitution too, and died 
young. 

If the "vocal comedian" were not the product of the 
Canterbury, but borrowed, none can dispute its claim to 
that ineffable creature, the " serio-comic singer," for women 
neither performed at the song-and-supper rooms, nor were 
admitted to them, till Evans's was on the eve of dissolution. 

35 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

The first serio-comic singer was Mrs Caulfield, and here, in 
jargon I have failed to translate, is the first serio-comic 
song : 

" Kemo, Kimo ! Where ? Oh, there ! my high, low ! 
Then in came Dolly singing 
Sometimes medley winkum lingum up-cat 
Sing song, Dolly, won't you try me, oh ! " 

In time there were acrobats at the Canterbury, and 
Blondin traversed the hall on his tight rope. And William 
Lingard gave impersonations of celebrities. 

But the prosperity of the Canterbury waned. Morton 
abandoned it — to be resuscitated by other enterprise, and de- 
voted himself to the Oxford, which, again, he enlarged from 
an inn, the Boar and Castle. He had a serious rival but a 
few hundred yards citywards, Weston's Royal Music Hall, 
also enlarged from a public-house, the Seven Tankards and 
the Punchbowl, absorbing a chapel in the process. This 
important characteristic of all the earlier halls — outgrowth 
from an inn — is not to be overlooked. It meant much ia 
morale. I remember Henri Gros, who did much for the 
music hall, standing on the pavement of Edgware Road 
and characteristically shaking his fist at the White Lion, 
which he declared to be the curse of its offspring, the 
Metropolitan. 

Champagne flowed river-like at Weston's. The earliest 
proprietor loved to hear it ordered by the case ! From the 
stage George Leyboume sang : 

" Champagne Charley is my name ! 
Champagne Charley is my name ! 
Good for any game at night, my boys ! 
Good for any game at night, my boys I 

36 




George Leybourne 



THE STORY OF THE MUSIC HALL 

Champagne Charley is my name I 
Champagne Charley is my name ! 
Good for any game at night, my boys ! 
Who'll come and join me in a spree ? '-'- 

Leyboume was a mechanic from the Midlands. His real 
name was Joe Saunders. He came to London by way of a 
holiday, was fascinated by the performances of the already 
popular Arthur Lloyd, and detennined to become a copaic 
singer. His early employment was to sing in eulogy of Tom 
Sayers, the prize-fighter. The song ran : 

" Hit him on the boko ! 
Dot him on the snitch ! 
Wot a pretty fighter ! 
Was there ever sich ! " 

Leybourne attracted the notice of the late William Holland, 
known as the People's Caterer, and was engaged to appear 
at the Canterbury Music Hall. His salary was twenty-five 
pounds a week, guaranteed for twelve months. He was 
provided with a carriage and four horses, quickly burlesqued 
by another performer with four donkeys, and encouraged to 
wear a fur coat. He also cultivated the habit of calling for 
champagne on the slightest provocation, and he died in his 
forty-second year in poor circumstances. Meanwhile he 
enjoyed amazing popularity and earned as much as a hundred 
and twenty pounds a week. Captain Cuff; Mouse Traps, 
a penny ! Who'll buy ? ; Up in a Balloon ; After the Opera is 
Over, and Riding on a Donkey, were some of his songs. And 
the Rollicking Rams : 

" Button up your waistcoat, button up your shoes. 
Have another liquor, and throw away the blues. 
Be like me, and good for a spree 
From now till day is dawning, 

37 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

For I'm a member of the Rollicking Rams, 

Come and be a member of the Rollicking Rams. 

The only boys to make a noise 

From now till day is dawning. 

We scorn such drinks as lemonade, 

Soda, seltzer, beer. 

The liquors of our club I'd tell you. 

But I can't, for there's ladies here. 

Come along, come along, come along. 
For I'm a member of the Rollicking Rams, 
Out all night till broad daylight 
And never go home till morning. '- 

Leybourne's songs were primarily exploited of course in 
the then disreputable music halls ; but they found their way 
into the Strand and Gaiety burlesques — ostensibly with the 
idea of satirising their vulgarity and silliness, probably with 
the object of stealing their usually fascinating music, for no 
fee was paid. Captain Crosstree is my Name in Black-Ey'd 
See-usan is an instance. 

Leyboume was tall, handsome, elegant, with an infectious 
gaiety and charm. George Edwardes once told me that he 
would find a thousand pounds a week for this Cockney 
Horace, could he be restored to life and activity, as at his 
best. An artist of the present day might be cited for illus- 
tration — G«orge Lashwood, who has much of Leybourne's 
sentiment and style. 

Another of the pillars of the Old Royal Holbom was 
Stead, a queer creature who sang The Perfect Cure with 
an extraordinary, intermittent dance. Charles Dickens 
inserted an article in Household Words in eulogy of its 
performance, and professed to have counted the ballons of 
the dancer to the ntunber of sixteen hundred. Dickens wrote 
that he " strongly urged the case of the music halls against 

38 



THE STORY OF THE MUSIC HALL 

the prosecutions of theatrical managers," and advocated free 
trade in entertainment. 

When Morton opened the Oxford his ambition soared to 
Sims Reeves for his star. But Reeves somewhat scornfully 
declined the offer. Charles Santley was more amenable — 
Santley now full of years and honours. Sims Reeves's old 
age was deplorable. He was glad of music hall engagements 
ere yet the great ones of the stage had begun to consider them 
— ^first, of course, in missionary zeal ; eventually for their 
considerable emolimient. In a few years the first Oxford 
Music Hall was destroyed by fire, and Morton passed on, to 
become, at the Philharmonic, the father of Opera Bouffe. 



39 



CHAPTER VI 

THE LONDON PAVILION 

Concerts in a Stable-yard — Dr Kahn's Museum — Early Joint Stock 
Companies and their Fate — The Oxford and the Tivoli 

TEDERE is no more remarkable instance of the de- 
velopment of the music hall than that furnished 
by the London Pavilion, though it has no claim 
to antiquity, and though at this moment it seems to be back- 
ward in the race. Half-a-century ago it was a typical " sing- 
song." Many a still active noceur can remember when in 
return for a trifling payment at the door he received a voucher 
entitling him to its full equivalent in drink or tobacco to be 
consumed at scattered tables. Then, the Pavilion became 
the first music hall de luxe at the West End. It was floated 
as a limited liability company, and began an epoch of frenzjed 
finance, from the effects of which the variety theatre as a 
commercial enterprise has hardly yet recovered. The im- 
mense profits earned by the London Pavilion appealed to 
the imagination, especially of the ultra respectable in- 
vestor. Clergymen and district visitors abounded among 
its shareholders. 

Half the music halls in the city were seized upon by un- 
scrupulous promoters, who filled their own pockets and, lor 
the most part, left their dupes to face a scandalous liquiqa- 
tion. From such a debacle some of the finest properties of 
to-day were raised. But many music halls which in private 

40 i 



THE LONDON PAVILION 

hands had prospered fairly well were long hampered by over- 
capitalisation and discredited by the unimpressive, or worse, 
character of their directorates. 

As for the Pavilion, it is built on the stable-yard of an iim, 
wherein some of the paraphernalia of the funeral of the 
Duke of Wellington was prepared. For a long time the 
adjoining Black Horse Inn enjoyed a right of light by way of 
a window, into the haU ; and a solicitor was sent to negotiate, 
with plenary powers and a cheque-book, the troublesome 
aperture. He found a new landlord, who rudely interrupted 
his overtures with the remark : " If you've come to talk 
about that cursed window you can save your breath. I've 
had it bricked up this very morning ! " 

The gallery of the first hall had but two sides. The third 
was occupied by a horrible collection of "scientific " specimens 
called Dr Kahn's Museum, whose last owner was the father 
of a now distinguished actor. The first proprietors of the 
London Pavilion, Loibl and Sonnhammer by name, made 
much money out of Arthur Lloyd, among the first per- 
formers habitually styled " Great," who persuaded them to 
abolish the refreshment coupon, and to establish a scale of 
admission prices. It is a curious characteristic of the London 
Pavilion that it has always been dependent on a particular 
comic singer — in succession, Leybourne, Macdermott, 
Charles Cobom, Dan Leno. 

Sonnhammer separated from Loibl, and established 
Scott's Restaurant. Loibl a while later made a monstrous 
deal with the old Metropolitan Board of Works, to whom he 
sold the property for £109,347. He set up his sons, Edward 
and Robert, in a weU-known bric-a-brac shop in Wardour 
Street, and himself ran Long's Hotel. The Pavilion was 

41 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

leased to Edward Villiers, who had been a pompous and 
uninteresting comedian at the Haymarket, and one of 
many managers of the Canterbury Music Hall. First as 
lessee and manager of the Pavilion, then as the dominant 
director of its board, he proved a shrewd financier and an 
astute showman. In 1882 the Referee charged him with 
permitting " foul and festering stuff to be brazed forth in 
defiance of decency and decorum," and paid £300 for the 
privilege. Villiers lived to a great age ; so did his colleague 
and survivor, Hugh Astley, a brother of jolly old sporting 
Sir John. Astley's attitude as chairman of a board meeting, 
when an expensive engagement was under consideration, 
was masterly, " It's a lot of money," he would say, 
nodding sagaciously. " It's a devilish lot of money. Of 
course if the fellow's a draw — ^there you are. But if he's 
not — ^where are you ? " a pronouncement which always left 
him free to comment on the event : " What did I always 
tell you ? " 

For years the Oxford Music Hall was conducted on old- 
fashioned lines, without event, in the interests of the heirs of 
one Syers. After some Adcissitudes it was disposed of to a 
limited liability company and linked up with the Pavilion 
and the Tivoli — ^the " Syndicate," as it was simply known, 
having for its dominant spirit Henry Newson Smith, a city 
accountant, who first saw the possibilities of the music hall 
from the point of view of high finance ; and who let its 
strenuous life kill him just as he neared supremacy. 

Where once the Tivoli stood, at the corner of Adam Street 
and the Strand, is now an impleasant pit, its future all un- 
certain. During its brief life of twenty-five years no star 
arose at the Tivoli, no name is inseparably associated with it 

42 



THE LONDON PAVILION 

as that of Sam Cowell was with the Canterbury, that of 
Leyboume with the Royal, Holbom, that of Macdermott 
with the London Pavilion. Truly enough, most of the 
popular favourites of its generation appeared there. But its 
programmes were shaped in accordance with routine rather 
than distinguished by sensational discoveries. The nearest 
approach to one was the exploitation of Lottie Collins in her 
dance, " Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay," which had already been 
done elsewhere and which had had an unspeakable origin in 
America. Its English edition was deftly and discreetly made 
by Mr Richard Morton. 

What may be said of the Tivoh was that it developed 
from the model of the London Pavilion, a type then new to 
the West End, and it retained to the last, in entertainment 
and in entourage, a certain characteristic of the music hall as 
distinguished from the variety theatre. 

It was another outgrowth of an inn. Many a still young 
Londoner can recall the four streets — John, Robert, James 
and WUliam Streets — built by the brothers Adam, who gave 
their Christian names to their handiwork, and after whom 
this particular district was called the " Adelphi," from the 
Greek word signifying brothers. The site was occupied by 
Diu-ham House, a palace built by Anthony de Beck, Bishop 
of Durham in Edward L's reign. Here Henry VIII. gave 
a great tournament on his marriage with Anne of Cleves. 
And here, after centuries, young London learned to drink 
lager beer in the so-called Tivoli Bier Garten, a saloon adorned 
by vast and daring pictures. The cellars ran towards those 
mysterious "Dark Arches" beloved of sensational writers 
about London hfe in Mid-Victorian days. 

Should the Tivoli disappear (with that inestimable benefit 

43 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

of a liquor licence, for which the London Hippodrome and 
the London Coliseum so desperately strive), it will leave the 
Strand without a music hall ; though there were predecessors. 
The Tivoli stood within a stone's throw of the Coal Hole and 
the Cider Cellars, from which Thackeray drew his Cave of 
Harmony and Back Kitchen — ^not exactly, it should be 
noted. They combined to form an impression. Farther 
east was the Dr Johnson, another prehistoric music hall. 
And there was actually the Strand Musick Hall, where the 
" Great " Alfred Vance, and " Jolly John " Nash alternated 
with the masque of Comus ! The Strand is often cited as the 
forerunner of the Gaiety Theatre. The truth is, the Strand 
Musick Hall occupied a site which formed little more than the 
entrance hall of the first Gaiety. Here, maybe, Vance sang : 

" Slap, bang, here we are again. 
Here we are again ; here we are again, 
Slap bang, here we are again — 
Such jolly dogs are we ! " 

The Tivoli Music Hall, with an associated restaurant, 
opened, just short of twenty-five years ago, with great ^clat 
Edward Terry was the chairman and added to words of 
condescension toward the new art a pious hope that there 
was money in it. There was not. The Tivoli came to grief. 

It was seized upon and reconstructed by Newson Smith, 
and it became, in his hands — the quotation is apt in that it 
fitted him too — ^the " fair embodiment of fat dividends." 
Its social side was important. It was the rendezvous of 
managers and artists from the world over. Once, it became 
the rendezvous of a particularly smart kind of " sportsmen," 
but that is another story and comes into the history of the 
great Goudie bank frauds, not of this occasion. The veteran 

44 



THE LONDON PAVILION 

Charles Morton was the figure-head of the new Tivoli — his 
half-way house between the Alhambra and the Palace. And 
the late George Adney Payne, ensuing to Newson Smith, 
was its dominant influence — a big, cavalry kind of man, to 
whom the greatest artist was " my lad," and who was prob- 
ably the last music hall magnate whom a hundred-guinea 
serio respectfully but affectionately addressed as " Guv'nor." 
With Payne's death the genius of showmanship departed 
from the Tivoli. Its difficulties and dissensions became 
acute. It fell, languid and grateful, into the arms of the 
Strand Improvement Schemers. 



45 



CHAPTER VII 

THE OLD MOGUL 

Nell Gwynne in Drury Lane — The Chairman — Dan Leno's First 
Appearance — Marie Lloyd's Noviciate 

WHEN lately the Old Mogul, or " Mo," in Drury 
Lane became a palace too, and black-ey'd beauties 
from Montmartre tripped impudently adown a 
" joy plank " to the amazement of the old inhabitants, some 
historian sought to identify Nell Gwynne with the Middlesex. 
I fear he had little better authority than his imagination. 
But truly enough the Mogul Tavern, with its twin, the 
Middlesex Music Hall, can go a long way back. It seems 
pretty certain there was some place of entertainment on 
this site in the days of Charles II. And shouting oranges 
makes dusty throats. All through living memory there has 
been a music hall in Drury Lane, homely and elemental, 
the robust mother of celebrity. Describing a visit paid to 
the Mogul in 1838, the editor of The Penny Paul Pry said : 
" We were agreeably surprised to notice the improvement 
which had taken place as regards the order kept in the room. 
We did not see a fight all the evening, neither did we see any 
police officer enter the place. We cannot in justice help 
acknowledging that the room is fitted up with good taste, 
and is really about as well adapted for its purpose as any 
concert-room in London." 
I did not, without regret, share in the opening festivities 

46 



THE OLD MOGUL 

at the new hall, when Mr Oswald StoU's arms were quartered 
with those of the ancient proprietors. For the Middlesex 
was a place of many memories. I suppose Mr J. L. Graydon 
made the first advance toward civilisation when he displayed 
the legend : " No person can be admitted to this hall unless 
suitably attired." A sweep, in inky trappings, tendered 
fourpence at the pit door, and was sternly bidden by the 
Madam Graydon of that time to read the notice. He 
admitted that he could not. When it was read to him, he 
still asked for an explanation — ^the words were infinitely 
beyond him. He was gently reminded that he lacked, for 
instance, a collar. " Collar, missis ! " he cried. " Collar ! 
Do you take people for blooming dogs ? " 

When the Chairman had retired from nearly every other 
hall he lingered at the Middlesex, a genial, jovial, diplomatic 
person, who introduced each artist with deft laudation, who 
watched the temper of his audience, and, with the infinite 
intonations of his hammer encouraged its applause, or over- 
whelmed its discontent. He foimd plentiful leisure to shine 
upon a little court filling the eagerly sought chairs aroimd 
his own particular table. Their occupants shed cigars and 
drink upon him ; and more substantial tokens, at seasons. 
Ever and anon passionate cries of his Christian name would 
come from the gallery : " 'Arraye ! 'Arraye ! " He would 
vouchsafe an occasional bow, in response. He could be stem. 
Two unfortunate artists had been soundly hissed. But when 
he procured silence he declared, with dignity : " In spite of all, 
ladies and gentlemen, the Sisters Trippit will oblige again." 

Pictures of Harry Fox, the historic chairman of the 
Middlesex Music Hall, stiU aboimd in music hall land. He 
had a nose that might shame Cyrano, and a complexion of 

47 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

rich old mahogany. On Sunday nights he still presided in the 
smoke-room of the Mogul Tavern, which became a mart for 
music hall artists. An obliging little man, by name Ambrose 
Maynard, offered for a fee of a shilling to note in his 
memorandum-book the contracts effected at these Sunday 
gatherings. He was the first music hall agent ; and out of 
his memorandum-book has grown a business now putting 
hundreds of thousands a year into the pockets of its professors 
and lately needing an Act of Parliament for its regulation. 
A music hall manager of the day bitterly reproached a 
" lion comique " with allowing Maynard to intervene in their 
hitherto pleasant (but probably one-sided) relations. " D'ye 
see, guv'nor, I can't read, nor write, myself," was the 
complete, and no doubt perfectly truthful, explanation of 
the artist. 

I have a collection of the Middlesex programmes bating 
back to 1872 — ^a priceless record. On 5th October 1885 
the announcement is made of the first appearance in London 
of Dan Leno, " the great Irish comic vocalist and present 
champion dancer." 1 believe the honour of Dan's introduc- 
tion to town is claimed also by the Foresters' Music Hall, but 
he may have worked both halls. Milk for the Twins was 
the delectable ditty he sang. But neither hall can really 
claim his first appearance, for " Little George, the infant 
wonder, contortionist and posturer," appeared at the 
Cosmotheca Music Hall, Paddington, in 1864, being then 
somewhat short of four years. Meanwhile he served three 
hard apprenticeships, separated from the vagabond and 
versatile Leno Family ; and married. 

Miss Marie Lloyd was a popular favourite at the Middlesex 
before she was so eagerly sought after, farther west, as an 

48 



day were : 

" Oh ! Jeremiah, don't you go to sea 1 
Oh 1 Jeremiah, stay along o' me ! " 

— ^and an audacious essay in mischievousness which never 
failed to do its work — The Boy I Love is up in the Gallery. 
I read the other day, incredulously, that Marie Lloyd, whose 
very own name is Matilda Wood, was a pupil teacher ! I 
think in fact she learned dressmaking — an art in which she has 
commercial proficiency still, and fine taste. But she began 
her professional career so early in life that there can have 
been no really important chapter preceding. She was little 
more than a girl when she married ; and a tiny thing in long 
clothes was the strange companion of the " Queen of Comedy" 
when I had the honour of my introduction, at the Oxford. 
Naturally, her age was over-estimated in the days of her 
celebrity. She presented herself, with a fine, family entourage, 
at the office of a theatrical newspaper, and deposited in the 
safe keeping of its editor a certificate of her birth, on 12th 
February 1870, so that he might confound all future 
calumniators. 

One of the very rare tragedies of the music hall occurred 
at the Middlesex, when an unhappy human target was shot 
by a rifle expert. But the hall has often been a battle-groimd 
for less sanguinary encounters. Times and again have the 
elaborate comic and dramatic " sketches," which for years 
formed the staple of itsprogramme, induced legal proceedings. 
The magistrate on occasion sympathised with Mr Graydon, 
and gave his show a certificate of good character and salutary 
influence. But fined him all the same. We have changed 
D 49 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

all that, if by an irregular process. The dramatic sketch, for 
which music hall managers have fought and bled during half- 
a-century, is now recognised, not by statute law, but by 
grace of the Lord Chamberlain. Sir Herbert Tree is just as 
free to play Trilby at the Middlesex as Mr Granville Barker 
is to play Shakespeare, or something like Shakespeare, or 
Shakespeare like nothing, at the Savoy. 



50 



CHAPTER VIII 



THE VITAL SPAEK 



Jenny Hill ; A Sordid Girlhood — A Dramatic Debut at the London 
Pavilion — A " Memorable At Home " — Bessie Bellwood 

A WAN and stricken woman, in dull apartments at 
Brixton, told me the story of her life, soon to end, 
in its eariy forties. She had made the worid laugh 
and sometimes weep. She had earned thousands — and not 
deliberately squandered them. With trembling fingers she 
turned over photographs, and treasured newspaper cuttings, 
to adorn her tale ; and one document, her apprenticeship 
indenture, the most wicked bond I have ever encountered, 
as between an artist and a manager. Poor Jenny Hill ! 
How grim in its satire seemed then the name she had gloried 
in — ^the Vital Spark. Without hesitation, without fear of 
contradiction from my contemporaries, or her colleagues, I 
would claim for Jenny Hill that in her day and generation 
she was the supreme genius of the Variety Stage. The public 
knew it too — ^the eager public that has taken the horses from 
her tiny brougham, its lamps always quaintly endorsed with 
her name. 

I have heard a dozen stories of her origin, which was very 
himible, certainly — ^that her father was a cab-minder, hanging 
about a rank in Marylebone. She worked in an artificial- 
flower factory in that neighbourhood, whereof the pro- 
prietor also owned the neighbouring Marylebone Music Hall, 

51 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFI 

one " Bob " Botting. And he would throw a few cop] 
to little Jenny, to make her sing : it so encouraged the o1 
workers. Strangely, in her last illness, she foimd pleas 
in twisting the paper flowers again. 

Her first appearance on the stage (on the authority of b 
the parties) was made at the Aquarium Theatre, W 
minster, in a pantomime produced by Joe Cave, who died 
lately in the Charterhouse, to which the fine old actor '. 
been admitted by the intercession of King Edward. Mo 
Goose was the pantomime, and little Jenny was the leg 
a goose. Fearful of losing their clothes, the ballet child 
would make them into a bundle, to be carried on the hea 
over all, the goose mask. Jenny lost her way in the m 
of the pantomime, lifted the mask, and found herseli 
solitary, weeping, half-naked urchin, in the centre of the fi 
lights, the conductor swearing freely, the audience shou1 
with laughter. 

Soon, Jenny was apprenticed, for seven years, to a nc 
country publican, to learn the trade of a serio-comic sin] 
and otherwise to make herself generally useful as the hoi 
hold drudge. It is all set out in the bond. The licens 
laws were very lax in those days, and on market days 
farmers would sit over their cups till one and two o'clocl 
the morning. While ever they lingered, the poor little se 
comic singer and dancer must be ready to take the stagi 
the "free and easy." And at five o'clock in the mora 
she must be alert, to scrub floors, polish pewter or bo 
beer, at which she became quite an adept. At noon, 
performances began again. 

She married an acrobat, and he taught her his trade, 
too kindly, as she had reason to remember throughout 

53 




Jenny Hill: singing "The Coffee Shop Gal 

PhotograpJt: Saronv 



THE VITAL SPARK 

life. Hardly out of her teens, she found herself haunting 
the offices of the agents, in York Road ; standing unnoticed, 
day after day, a child in her arms, in the crowded waiting- 
rooms. One morning, with fearful courage, she waylaid the 
autocrat of the community ; and he gave her a note, which 
he bade her take full speed to Loibl of the London Pavilion. 
He advised a cab, lest the opportunity be lost. But Jenny 
walked, baby in arms, because 

Loibl read the note, and told the girl she might try her 
luck in the evening. She did, with such success that the 
" Great " George Leybourne was kept waiting at the wings. 
The audience wanted more of its new favourite, and was 
not appeased till Leybourne, who was a pleasant fellow, 
took the slender creature in his arms, and held her up to view. 
There was a roar of laughter, and Champagne Charley was 
allowed to proceed. * 

Then Loibl was as good as his word, and gave Jenny an 
engagement, adding a glass of wine which made the starving 
woman light-headed. He congratulated her upon the agent 
who had brought her to his notice. " You might like to 
keep his letter," said the manager; " for it certainly com- 
pelled me to see you." And this is how it read : 

" Dear Loibl, — ^Don't trouble to see the bearer. I have 
merely sent her up to get rid of her. She's troublesome. 
Yours, A. M." 

Jenny Hill's fortune was made ; but a modest fortune, 
comparatively. Alive, to-day, she would certainly command 
from two hundred to three himdred pounds a week, not 
to speak of America. But I doubt if her normal salary, 

53 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

excluding " benefits," pantomime engagements, and African 
excursions, ever exceeded a hundred pounds a week. 

She was Uttle, sharp-featured, and pretty on the stage, 
but terribly scarred by illness, on inspection. She could sing 
a tawdry ballad, as Sweet Violets, with effect ; and she made 
a brilliant pantomime boy. But she was at her best in 
Cockney impersonation, as of 'Arry, describing the joys of 
Southend, and particularly of " The Coffee Shop Gal," a 
weary slut, with humorous impressions of her customers, 
and skill in that unleamable dance the " Cellar Flap." Such 
things induced the belief that Jenny Hill might become a 
star on the "regular" theatre, as Nan in Good for Nothing, 
for instance. But she was a failure. 

In her brave days she lived at a pretty place called the 
Hermitage, at Streatham, a straggling, secluded bungalow 
with a little farm-land, where a royal person had once hidden 
a romance. Jenny Hill used to bring the farm produce to 
town in her brougham, and assiduously vend it to her 
friends; but the adventure proved a costly failure. The 
Hermitage was the scene of one of the most wonderful 
gatherings ever seen in music hall land. It was on a Sunday 
in 1890 ; and the guest of honour was Tony Pastor, then the 
important music hall manager of America — ^its modem 
magnates, the Keiths and the Williamses and the Becks, were 
still unheard of. The vast commerce of English and American 
artists had not begun. And Jenny Hill's visit to the States 
about that time was almost the first of a London favourite 
to New York. 

To the Hermitage that summer Sunday went every music 
hall celebrity of the day. The arrivals began at ten o'clock 
in the morning, and everyone was greeted under the Stars 

54 



THE VITAL SPARK 

and Stripes with a freshly opened pint of champagne. There 
was a luncheon ; there was afternoon tea in the grounds, 
there was a dinner, with many speeches, and there were 
early morning travellers to London by the workmen's train. 

But, indeed, there was no note so human as Bessie Bellwood's 
shriek of delight when she heard a hawker crying winkles 
down the lane. His stock, on a japanned tea-tray slung 
round his neck, was promptly commandeered. The shocked 
footmen, handing round tea, were dispatched for pins ; 
and the immortal singer of Wot cheer, Eia, whose real name 
was Mahoney, and who claimed to be a descendant of 
" Father Prout," but who, more certainly, began life as a 
rabbit skinner, in the New Cut, carefully divided her spoils 
among many applicants. 

Poor Jenny Hill ! Prosperity was to leave her, but never 
popularity. Illness overtook her, and she faded away from 
the gaze of the public, which surely never knew her adversity, 
or it must have rallied in its thousands. She tried a visit to 
Africa, but came home worse than she went and finally foxmd 
a refuge with her daughter, Peggy Pryde, who is not without 
her talent. Jenny Hill's supreme weakness was speech- 
making. At the London Pavilion her four or five songs were 
always supplemented by a voluble address of thanks to her 
dear public, which never occupied less time than her con- 
tracted performance had done. And an audience, admiring 
her skill, knowing of her good heart, and truly loving her, 
never foimd her tiresome — or at any rate admitted it. 



55 



CHAPTER IX 

MUSIC HALL SOCIETY 

Dan Leno's Drawing-room — The " Great Lion Comique '-' — The 
Modesty of Genius — A Series of Sisters — Peer and Peri 

WHEN I remember that wonderful party at 
Streatham, with its ingenuous ostentation, its 
polychromatic vulgarity, its sincere and hearty 
generosity, I am tempted to wonder if the new society of 
the music hall is preferable to the old society. Perhaps the 
moment is not fairly chosen for a comparison. Years must 
pass ere the new generation of music hall perfonpers has 
really arisen. The change of the old order is not complete. 
The new order has yet to develop any characteristic charm 
and interest. It is full of its own importance — ^artistic 
and economic ; purse-proud, and rather illiterate. 

It is nothing to its discredit, quite the contrary, that the 
genius of the variety stage was bred in the gutter, and bom 
in a pot-house. If the same cannot be said of the theatrical 
artist, still, it is true of him that nine-tenths of the well- 
known actors and actresses of yesterday, and the day before, 
were of very himible origin. The fact that such a man as 
Dan Leno, without education, without the inspiration of an 
author, without the discipline of a stage manager, without 
any adventitious aid, should have been able to make so 
tremendously effective an appeal to the imagination, is the 
greater tribute to his genius. 

56 



MUSIC HALL SOCIETY 

I shall never forget my first meeting with him. I was 
ushered into a wonderful drawing-room, all yellow and green 
plush, and bronze figures, and marble vases, and flower-pots 
on bamboo tripods ; so dimly lighted that I fell headlong 
across the skull of a tiger still attached to the skin forming the 
hearthrug. Dan came from his liiding-place behind a screen, 
wreathed in smiles. " They mostly does that," he said. 

Thanks to many circumstances, Dan Leno did not leave a 
great fortune. A dozen performers of to-day have probably 
accumulated ten times his ten thousand, own town and 
country houses, and snobbishly inform a new acquaint- 
ance that they prefer to cultivate their private friendships 
outside the profession. 

I would give much to have seen the first music hall 
artist begin a banking accoimt. The old stager drew his 
" packet " in gold and notes, and carried it on his person, 
till it was spent. He was reckless and thriftless. Most of 
the old-time celebrities died poor ; some of them in the 
workhouse — ^all wrong of course ; and yet, there was some- 
thing about those joyous children of the night that has gone. 

When William Holland, the " People's Caterer," took the 
Canterbury, he covered the entire floor with a carpet of 
quality. One of his advisers remonstrated. The rude 
fellows affecting the pit woxild surely spit on it. The 
instinct of one of the greatest, although one of the most 
unfortimate, showmen of our time was aroused. Half 
London was gaziag in a few hours at this invitation on the 
hoardings : " Come and spit on Bill Holland's thousand- 
guinea carpet." In such an atmosphere, kind hearts beat 
freely; and coronets sometimes fell awry. Buy a pro- 
fessional newspaper to-day and read its sedate, its sordid 

57 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

announcements. Then compare them with the delicious 
riclame of a thirty-year-old Era. 

Who was first styled " great " ? It may have been 
Mackney, the " delineator of negro character," who certainly 
never saw a nigger at home. Or it may have been Alfred 
Vance. Which of them added " lion comique " to the 
description ? Cole, the ventriloquist whose Merry Men are 
a clean and precious memory of the old-time music hall, 
called himself Lieutenant Cole ; and no self-respecting 
ventriloquist thereafter neglected to provide himself with a 
naval or a military title. " Viscount " Walter Munro doubt- 
less emulated " Lord " George Sanger. A queer little comic 
singer encouraged romantic surmise by describing himself as 
' ' The Nobleman's Son. " Papa, I have heard , was a prosperous 
Birmingham tradesman. He bought old shoes, mended and 
varnished them, and retailed them alfresco. " Clobberer " 
is the technical description of this industry — honourable, 
but hardly noble. 

Jenny Hill established a fashion when she called herself 
" The Vital Spark." These indeed were " few, well-chosen 
words," but there was no significance in a rival's selection 
of "The Vocal Spark." My old Era reminds me of "The 
Glittering Star of Erin," a clever Irish vocalist, NeUie 
Farrell ; of " The Gem of Comedy," Ada Limdberg, a de- 
hghtful exponent of Cockney humour who must have sung 
Tooral-addy, the while she polished a boot and her nose 
alternately, thousands of times at the London Pavilion. Miss 
Vesta TiUey, "The London Idol," was soon confronted by 
Miss Millie Hylton as "The People's Idol." Miss Kate 
Harvey had the disagreeing distinctions of being a " Simple 
Coimtry Maid " and also " London's Leading Serio-Comic 

58 



MUSIC HALL SOCIETY 

Lady." She proceeded to state that she was " allowed to be 
one of the finest figures on the music hall stage. Proportion, 
perfection, natural golden hair (not a wig) which so many of 
the serio-comics have copied." Miss Lily Mamey " wished 
to avoid mistakes " by the record that she was " the original 
lady to wear comedy stockings and spring side boots ; also, 
the original ' There's 'air.' " Miss Lizzie Villiers briefly 
stated : " There is Only One Champion Lady Clog Dancer — 
Our Liz." I like " The acknowledged Sarah Bernhardt of 
the music halls — vide Press." Another lady with dignity 
condensed her qualities into the line: "None but herself 
can be her parallel. — Shakespeare." On leaving Leeds the 
" Original Tootsie Sloper " was twice grateful. She thanked 
her manager, whom she described as "Esq.," for a "most 
comfortable engagement," and wished to assure "all pros." 
that they would find the best lodgings at an address she gave. 
I am afraid that a postscript to the advertisement of one well- 
known comedian reminding another well-known comedian 
of " the sUght service rendered at Manchester on Saturday 
night, six weeks ago " had reference to a benefit forgot. 

What domestic tragedy was enclosed between these 
parentheses of a beamish pantomime boy " The only and 
original Mrs . . ." Quite conclusive was the assertion :" They 
may pinch my talent but they can't spoil my beauty." A 
frenzied favourite asked : " What price this, you blooming 
kippers ? Went better than ever at Bolton last week. All 
dates filled for two years," but added the inharmonious 
postscript: "Monday next unexpectedly vacant. Wire 
offers." Another lady declared that she was " going bigger 
than ever after her recent bereavement. Kind regards to 
all friends." The catholicity of the profession is exhibited 

59 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

in " Pianist wanted for a free-and-easy. One who can brew 
preferred." And again, candidates are invited for inclusion 
in a guitar band. There is the inevitable P.S., meant obvi- 
ously for a rival impresario, " I said players ; not string 
ticklers." 

Conning this old Era, I am constrained to wonder what 
has become of all the Sisters. Two or three girls singing 
and dancing in unison were an inevitable feature of every 
music hall programme for years. There were sisters even 
in old Canterbury days — the Sisters Brougham, two beautiful 
women, accomplished musicians, one of whom became the 
mother of Violet Cameron. The greatest vogue was that 
of the Sisters Leamar, who collaborated with the staff of The 
Sporting Times in the establishment of a restaurant, originally 
of modest style and dimensions, legally described, but never 
known, as the Cafe Vaudeville — 

" Romano's, Italiano 

Paradise in the Strand " — 

sang these buxom beauties, who will be more readily 
associated with — 

" Two girls of good Society, 

We dance, we sing ! 

We're models of propriety, 

Too wise to wear the ring.'- 

Their songs were wont to be paraphrases of waltz refrains. 
Mind you inform your Father, for instance, is akin to My 
Queen Waltz. 

As for the " good society," the Leamars were the daughters 
of one " Cokey " Lewis, whose trade, followed in the New Cut, 
is apparent from his nickname. He became the devoted 
attendant of his prosperous girls. When, having settled 

60 



MUSIC HALL SOCIETY 

into their first substantial house at Brixton, they gave a great 
party to their West End clients, the old man was foimd by an 
expeditionary guest toying with the taps of the bath. He 
watched the copious flow of water in wonder and amaze. 
Then looking over his shoulder at the intruder remarked in a 
grimly humorous way : " Someone's going to be drownded 
in this blooming thing ; and it won't be me ! ". 

I am not aware that the Sisters Richmond or the Sisters 
Grosvenor — " The Daisy Cutters " vide advertisement — 
were related to the ducal families whose names they bore. 
But one of the Sisters Bilton, who used to sing : 

" Fresh, fresh, fresh as the new-mown hay," 

married the Earl of Clancarty. Poor Countess Belle is dead. 
One hears she made an exemplary wife. These unions 
are not apt, however, to make for happiness. A popular 
favourite of the burlesque stage, who married into the peerage 
too, used to address to her old friends savagely humorous 
letters, descriptive of the society she enjoyed in the Seclusion 
of her stately home — ^just an insolent annual, ostentatiously 
parochial visit from the rector, whose " wife, thank God, 
declined to accompany him ; otherwise, cut by the Coimty ! " 
My lady's state may still have been more gracious than that 
of the music hall agent who, after three years' residence in a 
fashionable suburb, gleefully reports that he is now received 
everjrwhere, " except at the golf club." 

Experience has not proved the music hall artist to be a 
very effective club-man. Attempts to associate him in this 
fashion have failed, from the Junior Garrick Club onwards. 
At several of the old-time music halls the police used to over- 
look the fact that a private bar was kept open for the use of 

6i 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

the artists and their friends till one or two o'clock in the 
morning — ^just harmless conviviality. This did not conduce 
to early rising. A stroll to the " York Corner," a stretch of 
pavement off Waterloo Road where there was once a regular 
colony of agents, would kill the day. On Simday a drive to 
Hampton Court was the correct thing. And then a joyous 
gathering at the Kennington or Brixton home of the " lion 
comique." 

Charles Godfrey was one of the last of the irresponsible 
roysterers. A game pudding of Gargantuan size used to grace 
his Sunday evening board, and one night a bibulous cook 
served it by the simple process of rolling it down a flight of 
stairs. Each hungry guest contrived to intercept a fragment. 
A superior person once thought to snub Godfrey by remarking 
that he had never heard one of the great man's favourite 
songs. Next day forty-six piano-organs played it outside 
the incautious creature's house. A nightly attendant at 
the Canterbury was a convivial undertaker whose pride it 
was to have buried most of the music hall celebrities of his 

time ia a manner befitting his fame. " Don't let make 

a blooming circus of me when I'm gone," were nearly the last 
words of the forlorn and forgotten comedian. 

For years the inner life of the music hall artist was un- 
noticed by the novelist, excepting F. W. Robinson, who is 
said to have " discovered " Barrie, and to have opened to 
him the pages of his magazine. Home Chimes. Robinson 
wrote moderately, and even affectionately, of music hall life, 
which has recently furnished material for quite a good deal 
of lurid fiction. Dickens, of course, had " done " the circus 
in Hard Tim£s. But circus people never allowed his 
picture to have merit. 

62 



CHAPTER X 

EAST END ENTERTAINMENT 

The Britannia Festival — "Saloons" and their Style — Champagne 
Charley and Hamlet — Pavilion Celebrities — Grand Opera 
at the Standard— Kate Vaughan's Origin 

EAST is East and West is West, and never the 
twain shall meet " ; but the disposition of the 
entertainments of East and West London is to 
bely the poet. They used to differ not only as to East and 
West. South of the Thames, " transpontine " was the word, 
lay another colony more akin to the eastern group, still with 
a distinction. But the old tj^es have disappeared. The 
East-ender and the Surrey-sider come west, or indulge the 
picture palace habit, with an occasional divagation to a 
suburban empire. The pleasure palaces of the east and of 
the south-east are metragobolised, or missing. The world- 
famous Britannia Theatre at Hoxton, after many vicissitudes, 
has become a picture palace of sorts. The Surrey Theatre 
is a " popular " music hall, the Pavilion Theatre, once proudly 
" The Drury Lane of the East," opens its doors occasionally 
to casual visitorswith Yiddish drama. The Standard Theatre 
is a Hippodrome or an Empire. 

To the old stager what memories these names recall ! Nor 
need he be such a very old stager. In the nineties what play- 
goer worth his salt would have willingly missed the Britannia 
pantomime, in which the septuagenarian Sara Lane would 

63 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

play principal boy, in all the bravery of tights and trunks, to 
the delight of the gallery boys, who worshipped her ; or the 
still more interesting Britannia Festival, which was in the 
nature of a benefit and a levee. Old-fashioned fare was 
served up with old-fashioned liberality at the Britannia — 
a farce, a melodrama, an extravaganza, the interstices stuffed 
with songs and dances and acrobatic antics still failed to surfeit 
an audience which began to assemble at six o'clock and went 
home hungry at midnight. No ! Hungry " is not the 
word." For few restaurants get rid of so much solid food as 
the Britannia audience would consume during its five or six 
hours' dramatic debauch. Men walked to and fro incessantly 
with trays groaning beneath the weight of pies in infinite 
variety, thick slices of bread plastered with jam, chimks of 
cheese, slabby sandwiches, fried fish, shell-fish, jellied eels. 
Gallons of ale washed down mountains of food. 

The Festival was a function unique in my recollections 
of the stage. Toward midnight, the regular programme 
having been faithfully worked off, the curtain would rise again 
in a strange moment of silence. The shouts of waiters, the 
grunts of satisfied hunger, the recriminations of gallery critics, 
the shrieks of babies — all were hushed. Enthroned in the 
centre of the stage was her Britannic majesty — ^the tragedy 
queen, Prince Pretty-pet, grand almoner and all combined, 
of Hoxton. I believe Sara Lane divided with Father Kelly 
the freedom of Nile Street. Aroimd her on the occasion of 
the Festival were ranged the members of her company, each 
dressed in a " favourite character " ; a polychromatic court 
whose constituents came forward one by one to make dutiful 
obeisance to the Queen, what time a pompous old elocutionist 
recited an appropriate, original verse of a yard-long doggerel 

64 



EAST END ENTEHTAINMENT 

a presentation to Madam from her grateful servants ; presents 
from her in exchange, approving yells from all parts of the 
theatre, and, most interesting of all, "well-chosen" gifts 
showered on the members of the company by their admirers, 
as each retired from the presence — ^not ephemeral flowers or 
tawdry trinkets, but joints of meat, rolls of flannel, packets 
of tea, mnbrellas, stockings — selected, I doubt not, with 
exact knowledge that Juliet was a respectable married 
woman, really, with a large family; and that Claud 
Melnotte's salary was not calculated to overload the Sunday 
dinner-table. Sara Lane died a few years ago, advanced in 
years and wealthy. I am not concerned with the adventures 
of her old home after her death. 

She received the Britannia as a sacred trust from her 
husband and former manager, Samuel Lane, who had 
secured the services in perpetuity of a pretty soubrette, 
Sara Wilton, by marrying her. The Britannia Theatre 
developed from the Britannia Saloon, as the Britannia Saloon, 
after narrowly escaping extinction for an illegal performance, 
had developed from the Britannia Tavern. The saloons were 
fore-runners of the music hall. They had a particular licence 
which prevented the praformance of Shakespeare but per- 
mitted the consumption of food and drink and tobacco 
indiscriminately. In the course of time the saloon licaace 
was aboUshed — ^the proprietors had the alternative of rising 
to the dignity of the theatre or sinking to the level of the 
music hall. The only other saloons of much interest for these 
presents were the Grecian Saloon, which became the Grecian 
Theatre, in City Eoad, and the Eflingham Saloon, Whitechapel, 
which became the East London Theatre, and was lately 
destroyed by fire, as Wonderland, an East End correspondent 
E 65 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

to the National Sporting Club. The popular idol at the East 
London Theatre was one Harry Simmons, who in the course 
of a melodrama inherited a million of money. " What shall 
I do with it, what shall I do with it ? " he mused. " Well, 
'Arry, I should buy a pair of boots, first," said a gallery 
boy with friendly candour. 

George Leyboume, the " lion comique," owned the East 
London Theatre at one time, and to brace up business would 
drive down from the west to sing Champagne Charley 
whenever the opportunity occurred. Time being precious, 
any performance was peremptorily halted directly his 
brougham was heard. He rattled off Champagne Charley 
and away again, it might even be as an interlude to Hamlet's 
soliliquy. His leading man, Raynor, would give vent to 
furious rage on these occasions. One night he tapped 
Leybourne on the breast with the ponderous statement : 
" The difference between me, sir, and you, sir, is the difference 
between heaven and hell." With incredible aptitude Ley- 
bourne cried : " Facilis descensus Avemi — ^and don't you 
wish it was true, my hoy ! " 

Across the road is the vast Paragon Music Hall, telling 
again the story of attenuated dividends. Built on the site 
of an old tea-garden it was for years the objective of a 
fanatical apostle of temperance, who used to exhort its patrons 
to turn their backs on hell, and who defied all attempts at 
police restraint. Mr Frederick Charrington, who is under- 
stood to have sacrificed a million of money rather than 
participate in the profits of the drink trade, distinguished 
himself quite recently again by an incursion to the House of 
Commons. 

A few hundred yards westward from the Paragon, the 

66 



EAST END ENTERTAINMENT 

Pavilion Theatre once had a reversion of Drury Lane 
drama, and did it uncommonly well. I have seen three 
generations of the Lloyd family disport in pantomime here. 
Bessie Bellwood once asked a friend to prompt her in a few 
words of Yiddish so that, on the occasion of her benefit at 
the Pavilion, she might suitably retimi thanks to her loyal 
Hebrew supporters. " Wish 'em a meese meschinna," said 
the rascal. She did, and there was a riot ; for it means " A 
sudden death to you ! " The Pavilion doubtless occurs to 
many only in association with "The Whitechapel Murder," 
as it was called, before there were other Whitechapel murders 
more horrible. A sanctimonious commercial traveller, Henry 
Wainwright, murdered his mistress, Harriet Lane, a ballet 
girl at the Pavilion, and believed he had burned her body in 
destructive chemicals, whereas he had used a preservative ! 

It is, I believe, the fact that the Standard Theatre, in 
Bishopsgate, was rebuilt by the elder Douglass without the 
aid of an architect. It used to find support for an opera 
season, doubtless from the many Jews in the neighbourhood. 
At another time H. J. Byron, seeing the house half empty, 
asked Douglass what had become of his audience. " Gone 
west, to Covent Garden," said the old man. "To pick 
pockets, I suppose," commented the irrepressible Byron. 

John Douglass, a later proprietor, had a genius for stage 
effect, and for years jealously watched Harris's productions 
at Drury Lane, which he claimed habitually reproduced his 
"sensations." A letter from Douglass to The Era was 
the inevitable sequel to a Drury Lane first night : 

" Seeing that a hansom cab is used in the new drama 
at Drury Lane, I beg to state that a hansom cab, drawn by 

67 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

a live horse, was first employed in my drama . . . produced 
at the Standard Theatre in . . ." 



— and so on, with real rain, a real flood, a real balloon. The 
little man's statements were mostly indestructible. 

One moiety of the Victoria Theatre, near Waterloo Station, 
is now a temperance lecture hall ; the other, shops and ware- 
houses. Originally the Coburg, it was known to its more 
respectful patrons as "Queen Victoria's Own Theayter," 
and to the more affectionate as " The Bleeding Vic," from 
the character of the plays most accustomed. A particularly 
popular performance here was that of Oliver Twist, with a 
Nancy capable of being dragged round the stage by her own 
hair. The gallery would follow her progress with the foulest 
imprecations. It may interest the curious to know that the 
original of Henry Leigh's poem. When I 'played the Villains 
at the Vic, was John Bradshaw, a ponderous tragedian of 
that house. The Victoria Theatre was the alma mater of 
incomparable Nellie Farren. I recall a rich and rare 
comedian in the melodrama called Grace Darling : The 
Wreck off the Goodwin Sands. He had little to say except : 
" I've had two of rum shrub," and therefrom to increase, 
as he got drunker : " I've had two twos of rum shrub," up 
to, it may be, " I've had twenty-two twos of rum shrub." 
Cave, then the manager, afterwards identified this genius for 
itne as James Fawn, to become famous as the singer of // 
you want to know the Time, ask a Policeman. 

If the Surrey Theatre, built as a circus in the long ago to 
compete with Philip Astley, thereafter a Shakespearean house, 
had done no more for the popular entertainment, it might 
claim consideration as a wonderful training school for 

68 



EAST END ENTERTAINMENT 

writers of melodrama, in succession to the Grecian, fromwhich 
the Conquests migrated. George Conquest was a remarkable 
man — a daring acrobat, an inventive stage mechanician, 
an ingenious maker of " properties," a fair actor (though he 
stuttered badly), a shrewd manager, and a clever writer of 
melodrama — say, rather, clever in the adaptation of drama 
from the French stage, of which his knowledge was extensive 
and peculiar. In the days when three-fifths of our "original " 
plays were unacknowledged adaptations from the French, 
critics of importance knew of no better expedient when they 
were in doubt of being fooled than to hurry off to George 
Conquest, summarise the story, and be sure that in an instant 
he would enlighten them as to the French original. When 
an English author read to him the first half of a play founded 
on Leonard, which we know as The Ticket-of-Leave Man, 
Conquest blandly took up the recital and summarised the 
second half for his discomfited visitor. Paul Meritt, 
originally a salesman in a carpet warehouse, Henry Pettitt, 
Arthur Shirley all frankly and gratefully acknowledged 
George Conquest as their preceptor. And Madam Conquest, 
in her capacity of a ballet mistress, gave us Kate Vaughan. 

But that was at the Grecian, a tea-garden and theatre 
attached to the Eagle Tavern. 

" Up and down the City Road, 
In and out the Eagle. 
That's the way the money goes. 
Pop goes the weazel ! " 

— ^ran the old song. The weazel is an instrument used in 
tailoring, I believe ; the suggestion, that its deposit with the 
pawnbroker was the last resort of the drunkard. 

69 



CHAPTER XI 

THE LOST THEATRES OF LONDON 

Old-time Death-traps — Value of Theatre Property — Growth of 
the Suburban Houses — Boucicault at Astley's — Adah Isaacs 
Menken — Mrs Langtrv and the Methodists — Mr Keith of New 
York 

WHAT a change in the architecture of the London 
theatres a generation has seen — ^not merely an 
increase in external beauty and importance, 
but an improvement in every structural detail, and in the 
safeguards against disaster. Honour to whom honour is due. 
And that is, chiefly, to the London County Council. No 
doubt it overworked its powers. Acts of official tyranny 
and eccentric insistence were not unknown. The disposition 
of the theatrical manager was to exaggerate and to antagon- 
ise this phase ; to piteously resent frequent and heavy 
demands upon his purse — ^which, after all, was of no public 
concern — ^to fulfil requirements grudgingly, and to represent 
the County Council, on all occasions, as a malignant autocrat, 
whereas it is now generally recognised as mainly a public 
benefactor. Many of the theatres of thirty years ago were 
death-traps. Some of the most pretentious were foully 
insanitary. En parenthese : when the County Council insisted 
that its powers extended to the Augean stable of music hall 
humour, it did not a little good there, also ; though the 
cleansing process is still terribly incomplete. 

70 



THE LOST THEATRES OF LONDON 

With the Savoy Theatre, built with money coined at the 
Opera Comique out of the early Gilbert and SulUvan operas 
— ^as the earnings of The Colonel built the Prince's, as those 
of Dorothy built the Lyric, and as those of Sweet Lavender 
made Edward Terry the owner of the house to which he had 
prematurely given his name — ^D'Oyly Carte was allowed to 
have said the last word in theatre structure. Recent County 
Council specifications for improvements peremptorily de- 
manded after an interval of little more than thirty years, 
formed an interesting commentary on the praise so lavishly 
bestowed upon the original Savoy. 

What, again, is remarkable is the fact that the nxmiber 
of the London theatres does not appreciably increase. The 
music halls grow. But for almost every new theatre, one 
can cite an old one that has disappeared. One His Majesty's 
to another His Majesty's succeeds ; and Gaiety to Gaiety. 
Li several cases, to the perplexity of the historian, if not of 
to-day, of to-morrow, an old name has been clapped on to a 
new house. There have been half-a-dozen Queen's Theatres, 
three Globes, or more, two Strand Theatres, two Prince's 
Theatres, two Prince of Wales's ; and so on. 

When Toole took the Folly, which was originally the 
Charing Cross Theatre, he borrowed a fashion from America, 
and re-named the house once more — ^Toole's Theatre. In 
London this identification of a theatre with a person seems 
fatal. Toole was soon on his travels ; and the house was 
eventually overwhelmed by the expansion of Charing Cross 
Hospital. So with Terry's — ^the house stands ; theatre no 
longer, but picture palace. Daly hardly endured a season 
in Daly's Theatre. Sir Charles Wyndham mostly chooses 
a domicile other than Wyndham 's Theatre. The Hicks 

71 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Theatre soon became the Globe. The Whitney Theatre 
figiu:ed but for a short interval between the Waldorf and 
the Strand. 

London playgoing, per head of its population, is small 
compared with that of New York, for instance. Were it 
equal there could be no more profitable investment of a 
million than in the building of ten new theatres in the West 
End. It were wise, perhaps, not to dedicate one to music. 
That seems fatal. The National Opera House, projected by 
Colonel Mapleson, on the Embankment, hung for a long time 
between heaven and earth, and then became the head- 
quarters of the detective system, as New Scotland Yard. 
The Royal English Opera House went a little further. It 
even produced an English opera ; then declined to opera 
bouffe. Now, the Royal English Opera House is the Palace 
Theatre. The tragical story of Hammerstein's London 
Opera House is still incomplete. 

But, although fortimes are lost in foolish stage speculation, 
most of the actual owners of the London theatres draw regular 
and satisfactory dividends on the bricks and mortar outlay. 
Old John Lancaster, the cotton spinner from the north who 
built the Shaftesbury Theatre to gratify the ambition of his 
beautiful wife, Ellen Wallis, would grimly contemplate the 
balance-sheet of a Shakespearean production ; but always 
consoled himself with the reflection that the Shaftesbury, 
as a real estate investment, had never failed to yield a 
satisfactory return. There was an amusing contretemps on 
the first night there. The iron curtain stuck' — ^it even refused 
to be demolished by hammers ; and the manager, one J. C. 
Smith, crippled by gout, had to be wheeled on, in front 
of the recalcitrant safety curtain, to dismiss the audience. 

72 



THE LOST THEATRES OF LONDON 

Shaftesbury Avenue emphasises the disposition to central- 
ise in theatre buUding. In the sixties and the seventies the 
suburban theatre was undreamed of. There were a dozen 
houses remote from Charing Cross, but there was nothing 
parochial in the style of their entertainment, or in the 
personnel of their patronage. The West End playgoer, 
including the Prince of Wales, cheerfully made the pilgrimage 
to Islington to see Dolly Dolaro and Emily Soldene ; or to 
Sadler's Wells, or to Marylebone, or to the Surrey, where 
Phelps and his seceded comrades, Mrs Warner and Creswick 
respectively, most creditably revived Shakespeare ; or to the 
Grecian, where at one time the pantomimes shamed Drury 
Lane. These theatres were technically " London theatres " 
in their day, just as the remnant of the suburban theatre is 
actually provincial. 

One said the remnant ; for, of the thirty suburban play- 
houses that suddenly encircled London, half were soon in 
financial difficulties, and now are music halls or picture 
houses, or anything. The idea of the suburban theatre was 
bom when the Grand Theatre, Islington, abandoned " pro- 
ductions," and began, for the sake of economy, to entertain 
the touring companies formed to visit the provincial theatres. 
Mr J. B. Mulholland, an assiduous actor, with a genius for 
management, came to London in charge of a provincial 
company, adventuring a season at the Princess's ; and saw 
, , the possibilities of the London suburbs. He spent his leisure 
on bus tops, ranging from Uxbridge to Homerton, from 
Hiainpstead Heath to Greenwich; and his eye fell on 
Camberwell Green, where he built the Metropole, and made 
a fortune. He had a hundred imitators ; and the suburban 
theatre was disastrously overdone. 

73 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

None of the earlier outlying theatres has survived. The 
Grand Theatre, Islington, which, as the earlier Philharmonic, 
played so important a part in the history of the English 
stage, has for long been an " Empire " tributary to one of the 
great music hall trusts. But it was here that opera boufte 
took deep root, first, to be nurtured by Charles Morton. Its 
neighbour, Sadler's Wells, now also a music hall, with the aid 
of the Batemans, evicted from the Lyceum, and of Miss 
Marriott, the incomparable Jeanie Deans (who used to 
advertise with pride the number of thousand times she had 
played Hamlet), long tried to live up to the traditions of 
Phelps's thirty-four fine revivals of Shakespeare. After 
Mrs Warner, a much esteemed lady at whose disposal, 
during her last illness. Queen Victoria placed a royal 
carriage, ceased to manage the Marylebone, Joe Cave made 
a brave struggle, with the aid of such artists as Ben Webster, 
Toole, Paul Bedford, Phelps, James Anderson, George 
Honey, Walter Montgomery, John Ryder, Charles Warner, 
Herman Vezin, Miss Litton, Celeste and Mrs Sterling. But 
the famous house sank to the level of a gaff, and finally 
became, of course, a music hall. 

Within living memory, the City had its very own theatre, 
the City of London Theatre, in Cripplegate. It enjoyed its 
greatest distinction under Mrs Hormor; its greatest pros- 
perity under Nelson Lee and Edward Johnson — ^the last 
proprietors of an authentic Richardson's Show. On its site 
stands an educational institute. Farther east, the Garrick 
Theatre in Whitechapel and the Park Theatre, at Camden 
Town, both of which have disappeared — ^the former (never 
so distiaguished as its name) in flames — ^have no particular 
interest for us. 

74 



THE LOST THEATRES OF LONDON 

When Dion Boucicault acquired Astley's Amphitheatre in 
1862 he meant to teach the West End managers a lesson. 
He addressed a letter to The Times contrasting the dinginess, 
ill ventilation and general discomfort of the London theatres 
of that time with the Winter Garden of New York — ^the 
direction of which he had then recently relinquished. He 
offered to head a subscription with five thousand pounds for 
the purpose of erecting a suitable and comfortable London 
theatre ; and in the meantime he experimented with 
Astley's. He converted the circus ring into stalls, pit stalls, 
and pit. He laid out a little garden, with intermittent 
foimtains, between the stalls and the orchestra. Adjoining 
the theatre, on the site of what had been known as Astley's 
Cottage, he projected a huge cafe, which was to be con- 
structed with foyers for promenaders between the acts ; and 
an open-air restaurant, on the flat Moorish roof, commanding 
the river. All this, if you please, more than half-a-century 
ago ! Boucicault never really approached the latter part 
of his scheme. He produced a play taken from The Heart 
of Midlothian as The Trial of Effie Deans. He was soon 
in monetary difficulties and agaia he came west — ^to the 
St James's. 

As for Astley's, it enjoyed a vogue which Boucicault 
had been unable to procure, while Adah Isaacs Menken, 
the beautiful American Jewess, whose four husbands 
included John C. Heenan, the " Benicia Boy," played 
Mazeppa. London lost its head about her. Dickens 
accepted the dedication of a volume of poems which it was 
said Swinbimie helped her to write — ^though the evidence 
is more than doubtful. And after a few years of exultant 
recklessness she died penmless, in Paris. The still living 

75 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Kate Santley was a member of her company, and James 
Fernandez, who died but recently, Fernandez agreed to 
decide a bet made by some noble sportsmen, as to whether 
the lovely form nightly posed on the back of a moderately 
wild horse, to traverse an ingeniously terraced " rake," was 
all Menken's, or partly due to what the costumiers call 
" symmetricals," in plain English, padding. Fernandez, 
to secure his evidence, gripped the actress with a cruel 
firmness when he lifted her to the horse that night ; 
and, deeply enraged by his incomprehensible conduct, 
she cut his cheek open with a short riding whip she 
carried. 

For five and twenty years Astley's, acquired by the circus 
family of Sanger, alternated between popular drama and 
equestrian shows. In 1902 it vanished before street 
improvements. 

Over the bridge to the Westminster Aquarium — ^to concern 
ourselves, for the moment, with its associated theatre only. 
Theatrical property has coinpelled some strange bedfellows. 
General Booth, when he bought the Grecian Theatre, found 
to his great discomfiture that he had to maintain the Eagle 
Tavern as a licensed house. And when the governing body 
of the Wesleyan Methodists acquired the Westminster 
Aquarium it had to take over Mrs Langtry and her lease of 
the Aquarium Theatre, and to connive at their continuance. 
But Madam, who had spent a fortune on the reconstruction 
and chaste decoration of the theatre, and on a series of 
productions which she hoped might resuscitate it, was already 
a little tired. She proved amenable to reason, and ready 
money. So the Imperial Theatre was merged in the ruin 
of the Westminster Aquarium. 

76 




John C. Heenan : "The Benicia Boy' 



THE LOST THEATRES OF LONDON 

Henry Labouchere, who had graduated in theatrical 
management at the Queen's Theatre, Long Acre — now a 
seed warehouse, memorable for the first association of Ellen 
Terry and Irving — was the presiding genius of the Aquarium 
Theatre, which he opened with Jo, a version of Bleak House 
which was not intrinsically better than other adaptations 
from Dickens but in which Jenny Lee achieved an historic 
success. For a few years, the Imperial Theatre, if it did not 
prosper, enjoyed a considerable distinction, by reason of Miss 
Marie Litton's revivals of old comedy. Thereafter, it took 
to bad ways. The neighbourhood would be flooded with 
free tickets, or "orders." Unhappy man who used one! 
When he entered the theatre he was waylaid for a " fee " of 
some kind at every turn. His hat, coat, umbrella, were torn 
from him by the cloak-room attendants. "Thank you, 
madam, I prefer to keep my hat — ^I have neither coat nor 
umbrella ! " said a bold fellow of my acquaintance. " Then 
you ought to be damned well ashamed of yourself," promptly 
retorted the lady. 

For fifteen years the Princess's Theatre has been to let. 
About that time it was purchased by Benjamin Franklin 
Kdth, the maker of the American music hall, who meant to 
run it, after the fashion of his New York and Boston houses, 
with what is called " continuous vaudeville." The enter- 
tainment begins midday, and is incessant till midnight, 
though the " stars " have appointed times much as they 
would have here, say at four o'clock in the afternoon, and ten 
o'clock at night ; and intervals are ejected, during which 
the building clears, by the performance of specially unpalat- 
able artists, or " chasers " as they are vividly described. 
Your admission fee entitles you, however, to endure the 

77 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

twelve hours' performance, if you can ; or you may seek relief 
in many apartments adjacent to the main hall — ^tea-rooms, 
reading-rooms, writing-rooms. The domestic woman — ^who 
would, indeed, hardly overcrowd any American institution — 
may bring her baby for deposit in Keith's nursery, complete 
her shopping (parcels care of Keith's), summon papa from 
his office to meet her at the " family resort " ; then make for 
home. Whether London would ever have taken to the idea, 
we can only surmise. Keith was obstinate in his structural 
scheme. The Coimty Coimcil did not see eye to eye with 
him, and he just let the Princess's stand. His most intimate 
associate never dared ask him his intentions. But he once 
assured me that he had bought at a price which forbade 
a serious loss, reckoned by the immense increase in 
the value of the land. Recently, it was stated that 
a vast hotel would replace Keith's. But this scheme fell 
through. 

Keith spent much time in London ; but never mixed with 
music hall " magnates " here, or received music hall per- 
formers. He came and went unknown, though he could never 
be mistaken, after one encounter — ^a heavily built man, very 
bald, with a thick moustache, habitually wearing a black 
frock coat, a black " bow," an old-fashioned silk hat. He 
was shrewd, inquiring, reserved. He began life with what 
is called a " privilege " to sell pea-nuts in the enclosure of 
the Bamiun and Bailey circus, saved enough money to buy 
a cheap " freak," which he exhibited in Boston, entered New 
York when there were but two music haUs — ^Koster and Bials, 
corresponding in style to oxir Pavilion, or the defunct 
Trocadero, and Tony Pastor's, more like the old-time 
Canterbury — ^and in the twenty-five years he had to live, 

78 



THE LOST THEATRES OF LONDON 

built up a system that eventually employed millions of 
money in the exploitation of hundreds of music halls 
throughout the United States. 

But the Princess's : It seems certain that the famous 
old house belongs to the lost theatres of London now. A 
hundred years will soon have passed since Mr Hamlet, 
silversmith, of Princes's Street, Piccadilly, rashly ventured 
a panorama here. Fire procured him an issue out of his 
affictions, happy or otherwise. At any rate, having built a 
new house, at a great cost, he promptly became bankrupt. 
For ten years, opera was mostly the attraction. Then came 
Charles Kean's over-loaded revivals of Shakespeare. He 
introduced a bear to The Winter's Tale, and caused the 
British Museum to be ransacked for authorities. But his 
aims were noble ; and his companies (which included the 
Terry children) were distinguished. 

Thereafter, Stella Colas, the French actress, whose Juliet 
an eminent critic described as " no better than she should 
be," made her first appearance at the Princess's. Henry 
Morley declared her to be " abominable . . . employing the 
stage artifices and ghastly grimaces of a French ingSnue." 
Many of Boucicault's melodramas were produced here, 
notably The Streets of London, Arrah na Pogue and After 
Dark ; and Charles Reade's prison play. It's Never Too Late to 
Mend, which led to a fierce altercation between Vining the 
manager, on the stage, and Oxenford of The Times, in his 
box. Vining reminded the critics, one of whom had verbally 
denounced the prison scene, that they had come in for 
nothing. Oxenford demanded a public apology, and, with 
the support of the audience, got it. 

An immense fortune, made out of Charles Reade's Drink, 

79 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

enabled the Gooch family to rebuild the Princess's Theatre. 
One of Phipps's characteristic well-shaped, or three-tier 
houses, considered to be most beautiful at the time, was 
erected, but was conspicuously unfortunate, till Wilson 
Barrett, who had captivated London by a still unequalled 
performance of Mercutio, supporting Modjeska, at the Court 
Theatre came along. He began a new chapter in the history 
of melodrama with The Lights of London, and continued it 
with The Silver King. I suppose they still remain the two 
best plays of their genre since The Ticket-of-Leave Man. 
Barrett is credited with many failures at the Princess's. I 
believe he had but two of serious import — Hamlet, and 
Lytton's posthimious Brutiis. And on neither did his fortune 
disappear, in truth. His followers at the Princess's have no 
interest. 

Barrett cherished the ambition to return to the Princess's, 
when his star again ascended. Fate took him instead to 
another dilapidated temple of Thespis, the Olympic, which, 
later, caught the fever of variety, and was kindly enveloped 
in the Strand Improvement Scheme. Grass, meanwhile, 
hides its ruins. Near here was Craven House, where Eliza- 
beth of Bohemia hved — the guest, but not the wife, of its 
owner — and there was an eventual tavern, " The Queen of 
Bohemia," which Philip Astley merged in a circus, to be 
replaced by a theatre whose early history was written in a 
roimd dozen bankruptcies, rapidly succeeding. Vestris gave 
the Olympic its first vogue. Then, it had for lessee one 
Walter Watts, who cut a great figure with eighty thousand 
pounds stolen from the Globe Insurance Company ; and 
hanged himself in gaol, while awaiting his trial. Alfred 
Wigau managed the Olympic for years. Tom Taylor's 

So 



THE^LOST THEATRES OF LONDON 

historic melodrama, The Ticket-of-Leave^Man, ran here foiir 
hundred and six nights in the sixties. Henry Neville prob- 
ably lived to play the part as many thousand times. He suc- 
ceeded to the management ; and produced a score melodramas 
only less remarkable than The Ticket-of-Leave Man. 

Traversing the Strand from west to east one misses the 
Folly, formerly the Charing Cross, later Toole's Theatre, the 
Gaiety, the Olympic, the Globe, the Opera Comique and the 
Strand — if the pilgrim should persevere to Fleet Street he 
would come upon the remnant of an old music hall, the 
Doctor Johnson. Few theatres have done so little to justify 
their existence as the Folly — once the scene of Mr William 
Woodin's Entertainment. Lydia Thompson procured it a 
vogue, with burlesque. But the ramshackle old place could 
have had no more fitting end than the hospital ! 

Jerry-built and dangerous, those unhealthy twins 
the Opera Comique and the Globe were short hved. 
The wonder is that they endured so long. The Opera 
Comique contrived, however, to impress Gilbert and Sullivan 
on London. The Globe is associated with two remarkable 
runs — of Les Cloches de Corneville and Charley's Aunt, the 
former brought forward from the Folly, the latter from 
the Royalty. And both theatres recall a " scene " to be 
considered later. 

Burlesque is nowadays habitually associated with the 
Gaiety. Really, the Strand has the prior claim to its origin 
— ^though the most successful burlesque of all, Black-Ey'd 
Susan, was done at the Royalty, in 1866, before the Gaiety 
was thought of, with Charles Wyndham as a Deal Smuggler. 
The Strand stood nearly a hundred years. But it has little 
interest for us till the Swanborough family settled in to 
F 8i 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

do Byron's early burlesques, with Marie Wilton for their 
star. Madam Swanborough had a pleasant disposition, 
and the way of Mrs Malaprop— if the quaint things she 
said, and the quaint things Byron said she said, and the 
encrustations of a swarm of smaller wits were collated they 
would fill a book. But the Swanborough family was prob- 
ably too large to live on one small theatre, and came to grief. 
John Sleeper Oarke, the rich and rare American comedian, 
took the Strand, but mostly let it. Here then, Florence St 
John achieved some of her greatest triumphs in Opera Bouffe ; 
a woman demonstrated the ability of her sex to write farce 
with Our Flat, receiving, they say, fifty pounds for her share 
of the spoil, and A Chinese Honeymoon ran upwards of a 
year. 

Two historic melodramas were produced at the Duke's 
Theatre, Holborn, The Flying Scud and New Babylon. In 
the latter play Caroline Hill, of the wonderful golden hair, 
appeared. Then the Duke's considerately caught fire, and 
made room for the First Avenue Hotel. The neighbouring 
Holborn Amphitheatre has disappeared. 

Dr Distin Maddick's romantic attachment for the old 
Prince of Wales's Theatre, where the Bancrofts revolu- 
tionised the stage and made a huge fortune by the produc- 
tion of Tom Robertson's " tea-cup comedies," has saved 
this from becoming a lost theatre. With a fortune nearing 
a quarter of a million, 'tis said, made out of surgery, he built 
the Scala Theatre — a disappointing realisation of his dreams, 
one fears. 



82 



CHAPTER XII 

ROUND LEICESTER SQUARE 

Early Victorian Horrors — Prize-fighters at the Alhambra — Leotard 
and Blondin — King Edward and the Empire — ^Winston Churchill 
— Prudes on the Prowl — Murder of Amy Roselle 

I SUPPOSE there is no square mile containing so much 
of interest to the student of the history of popular 
entertainment as that of which Leicester Square is 
nearly the centre. Circus, theatre, music hall, panorama, 
waxwork exhibition — they hem it in, on every side. Hither 
came the disgraceful Judge and Jwy show from the Strand 
— ^a mock trial of a scandalous cause — ^the Poses Plastiques 
(particular patrons welcome to the dressing-room) and other 
delights of the Early Victorian noceur. Let the Alhambra 
and the Empire, dominating respectively the east and the 
north side, suffice for this chapter. There was a design to 
complete \lcie quadrangle with theatres ; but new buildings, 
meanwhile erected, prevented this development. In one, 
the Green Room Club — ^probably the most exclusively 
theatrical club in the world, clinging convivially to the 
tradition of one room — ^has foimd a home. 

Not long ago the Alhambra might have commemorated its 
jubilee ; for it had a music hall licence years earlier than 
some slipshod historians seem to know of ; and indeed rims 
the Canterbury very close for seniority. Projected as the 
Panopticon, in more or less friendly rivalry with the 

83 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Polytechnic, it was incorporated by Royal Charter, and opened 
with prayer. " While the eye is gratified with an exhibition 
of every startling novelty which science and the fine arts 
can produce, and the ear is enchanted with soul-stirring 
music, the mind," said the prospectus, " shall have food of 
the most invigorating character." 

Alas ! the Panopticon soon found its way into bankruptcy, 
Its scientific toys were scattered from an auction-room ; and 
the enterprising E. T. Smith turned the splendid Moorish 
structure into a music hall. He did not long endure — but 
he distinguished his term by exhibiting the prize-fighters, 
Sayers and Heenan, still scarred by their historic battle 
at Famingham. Amid a scene of wild enthusiasm, they 
were presented with tokens of the occasion. Smith had 
meant to utilise the Royal Opera House, of which also 
he was the lessee and manager, for this interlude ; but 
allowed friends with a keener sense of propriety to dissuade 
him. 

A Mr Wilde ran the Alhambra, indiscriminately as a 
music hall and as a circus. Under his management Leotard, 
the famous aerial performer, made his first appearance in 
London, to eventually receive a salary of one hundred and 
eighty pounds a week. None is so apt to play the part^of 
Laudator temporis acti as the circus veteran. And he is 
never so firm as in the assertion that Leotard's grace and 
daring have not been equalled, even by " Little Bob " Hanlon, 
whose ease and skill are but an experience of yesterday. 
Leotard was trained to the trapeze in childhood at Toulouse 
by his father. He followed his dangerous trade immune 
from accident, and went home to die, quite young, of small- 
pox. Incidentally, he established an interesting precedent 

84 




The PANOPTirON : PrKDECKSSOR of the ALtrAMKRA 



ROUND LEICESTER SQUARE 

in the way of artists' salaries. Giovanelli, the proprietor of 
Highbury Bam, demurred to Leotard's demands, but jumped 
at the artist's suggestion that he should receive one half- 
penny per head of the attendance. The manager had cause 
to repent his bargain, for the salary first quoted was much 
less than the aggregation of the capitation fee. Roughly, 
fifty thousand people yield a hundred poimds. The fact 
that Leotard died in his bed leads me to remark that the 
authenticated instances of fatal accidents to " sensational " 
performers are singularly few ; and have mostly been due 
to carelessness, to the slovenly fixing of apparatus, or to 
incompetence. There is the case of gymnastic partners, one 
of whom himg by his feet from a lofty trapeze, holding in his 
teeth a gag attached to a swivel, which carried his partner 
by the belt. The lower man, in a horizontal position, face 
downwards, swung roimd and round, but became so in- 
different to his circimistances that his eye wandered over 
the hall. " Bill," he said to his bearer, " your girl's here." 
As thoughtlessly. Bill said : " Where*? " and, as he opened 
his mouth, lost hold of the gag, precipitating his imhappy 
comrade many feet to the earth ! 

Think of Blondin, another of the Alhambra alumni — 
though his more brilliant feats were at the Crystal Palace. 
The old man died peacefully in his bed at seventy-six, having 
followed his hazardous calling from his fourth year. But he 
refused to regard it as hazardous. " A net is a very proper 
precaution," he agreed with me one day, " — pour ler autres." 
He declared that a net would make him nervous. Blondin, 
no doubt, had a supernatural sense of balance. He also had 
the forearm of a giant, which enabled him to manipulate a 
balance pole of inunense weight and utility. On the ground 

83 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

he was unimposing, and ungraceful in his walk. Suffering 
agony from rheumatism, he one day looked affectionately 
at a rope stretched across his garden at Ealing — ^where he 
kept rabbits, experimented in sweet-peas, and what not — ^and 
assured me he would never be well till he could get "up 
there," being then seventy odd. He performed within a few 
months of his death. 

Frederick Strange was Wilde's successor at the Alhambra, 
in which he is said to have invested a fortune made as a 
refreshment contractor at the Crystal Palace, which is quite 
true ; but, like Morton, he was a waiter first. Two more of 
the men destined to play a great part in the development of 
the modem music hall were publicans' cellarmen ; and two 
more were policemen. 

Strange was disposed to make ballet a popular feature of 
the Alhambra progranune, and this speedily involved him 
in a quarrel with the theatrical managers, who sought to get 
his first spectacular production, L'Enfant Prodigue, founded 
on Auber's opera, condemned as a stage play. Strange won 
the day, but failed to get a really useful judgment ; and, 
after an interval of forty years, the still unsatisfactory state of 
the law permitted similar prosecutions against the Alhambra 
and the Empire in 1905. During a part of Strange's manage- 
ment John HoUingshead, as stage manager, got his first 
practical experience of theatrical life ; and may also have 
got the idea of the Corinthian Club from the very convivial 
gatherings in the Alhambra canteen. He found a humorous 
relaxation in writing articles for Good Words as he sat in 
his office of observation, adjacent to the stage. 

Strange turned his enterprise into a limited liability com- 
pany — ^the first of note in the history of popular entertainment. 

86 




Howes axu Cushin(;'.s American Circus : at the Alhambra 



ROUND LEICESTER SQUARE 

The prospmty of the house was checked by the loss of its 
music hall licence in 1870. This was not restored till J884. 
Meanwhile, the directorate exploited a theatrical entertainr 
ment — comic opera with incidental ballets, of which M. Jacobj, 
a rej6igee at the time of the Franco-Prussian War, supplied 
more than a hundred during his reign as chef d'orchestre. 
In the autumn of 1870 the Alhambra was the scene of nightly 
demonstrations by French and Germans, for which the 
management generously provided a musical accompaij.!.- 
ment of national airs ; and later there was counter-rioting 
on account of two favourite actresses, Kate Santley and 
Rose Bell. 

Touching the site of Leicester House, tiie " Pouting place 
of princes," the Empire mainly occupies that of Saville 
House, where Peter the Great may have drunk his strange 
mixture of brandy and pepper, and from the steps of which 
George in. was proclaimed King. Whoi Saville House — 
say, rather, the ensuing Eldorado Music Hall of evil famer=- 
was destroyed by fire, two young bloods drove up with the 
firemen. They became the Duke of Sutherland and King 
Edward VII. In years to come, other yoimg bloods de- 
molished a partition erected by order of the Coimfcy Coimdl, 
and marched down Piccadilly bearing fragments of the wreck, 
headed by Mr Winston Churchill, not yet, of course. Right 
Honourable. 

After the Saville House fire a panorama was projected, 
and the Empire of to-day follows its circular line. But the 
panorama came to naught. There was an Alcazar scheme, 
and a Pandora scheme. " Empire " was the inspiration of 
Mr H. J. Hitchins, manager from the opening of the house, 
in 1884, to the day of his death. He was the nominee of 

87 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Nichol, of the Cafe Royal, the original leaseholder and 
dominant shareholder of the Empire. For years that grim 
old man, sitting in his box, and rolling a semi-paternal eye 
over the ballet, formed a familiar picture. 

At first the Empire was devoted to opera. Chilperic 
was the first production, with a cast including Herbert 
Standing, Paulus, Walter Wardroper, Harry Paulton, CamiUe 
D'Arville, Agnes Consuelo, Sallie Turner, Madge Shirley, 
and Sismondi. Hayden Coffin joined the company as a 
chorister. 

But opera and extravaganza failed to attract ; ballet 
became the staple fare, with a liberal supplement of music hall 
"turns." The Empire grew world-famous, and its share- 
holders divided profits at the rate of sixty per cent. — on a 
small capital, it should always be remembered. It was 
probably the first music hall to which Royalty, in the persons 
of King Edward and Queen Alexandra, resorted in a casual 
and friendly way. It was the scene of a Lucullan entertain- 
ment, given by the Sassoons to the Shah of Persia. It was 
the first hall to which a famous actress of the regular theatre, 
Amy RoseUe, came, with recitations. It was the first 
hall toward which Sims Reeves unbent. It was the battle- 
ground of the Nonconformist party apropos its promenade, 
inspiring Qement Scott to pen his diatribe. Prudes on the 
Prowl. 

Amy RoseUe took her engagement very seriously, also a 
thirty-poimd salary ; and received the interviewing reporter 
with effusion. She professed to believe that she was doing 
missionary work — ^" elevating " the naughty halls. The 
truth was that the directors of the Empire were in mortal 
terror of jtheir licence at that time, and made frantic efforts 



ROUND LEICESTER SQUARE 

to secure any pallid star, for citation to the authorities. 
The habitual attendants at the Empire were bored stiff by 
Madam RoseUe's recitations. 

Poor, poor Amy RoseUe ! She was shot, fuUy acquiescing, 
by her husband, Arthur Dacre, who immediately cut his 
throat, in Sydney. Refusing to recognise the fact that their 
charm and popularity had waned, they stubbornly continued 
in importance, till starvation stared them in the face ; 
and then staggered the world by their protest against its 
declining appreciation. 

Mrs Ormiston Chant headed the " purity " campaign 
against the Empire, and naturally came in for a good deal 
of abuse, and more cheap satire. She overstated her case, 
and exaggerated her evidence, of course. But George 
Edwardes, though naturally he would not admit her con- 
tentions, knew that she was sincere, and immensely able. 
I heard him offer her a fine engagement, as a sequel to their 
fight She had a secret sympathiser in Augustus Harris, 
who had retired in anger from the board of the Empire ; and 
wa§ again disappointed when he found he could not make 
the Palace its effective rival. Music hall management was 
not his mMier. 

He sought revenge in the melodrama, A Life of Pleasure, 
which he produced about that time. One of the scenes was 
enacted in the Empire promenade, the naughty lady of the 
episode drenching the viUain with champagne. Pettitt, 
the author, was well aware that Harris meant to be vicious 
toward the Empire. But the curious feature of the situation 
was that the actress was Mrs Bernard Beere, who, as Fanny 
Whitehead, presided in her girlhood over a glove stall on the 
first circle of the Alhambra, and had doubtless assisted 

89 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

at many scenes such as she was now called upon to 
enact. 

It is a ghastly reflection that George Scott and Charles 
Dundas Slater, acting managers respectively of the Alhambra 
and the Empire, two pleasant and popular men, both blew 
out their brains. 



go 



CHAPTER XIII 



SINGERS WHO ARE SILENT 



The first " Great "- Men of the Music Hall — Lions Comique — Music 
Hall Morals and Manners — Saved by a Song 

FEW and short are the records of the early music hall ; 
and so the would-be historian seizes every fragment. 
Not long before his death, well advanced in the 
eighties, Joe Cave, manager, actor, author, and pioneer of 
minstrelsy, whose chief pride it was to have been the first 
English banjo player, carefully " made up " as W. G. Ross 
did to sing Sam Hall, and warbled that weird ditty for the 
instruction of a party of his friends. It was an interesting 
experience. Still living is a member of one of Morton's 
early companies at the Canterbury, William Lingard. 
He was acting, at any rate a few months ago, with one of 
the companies proceeding from the Shaftesbury Theatre. 
Lingard used to do impersonations of celebrities, with songs, 
a form of entertainment which again became popular a while 
ago. He married a pretty girl in the company, Alice Dunning, 
and they wait to America, to return as Miss Lingard, a 
charming emotional actress in the eighties, and as Horace 
Lingard, an important impresario of comic opera. He must 
be the last link between the old music hall and the new. 

Mackney, the negro-impersonator, sedulously cultivated 
a public alternative to that of the music hall. He organised 
concert parties, and was often included in St James's Hall 

gi 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

programmes — ^musical, not minstrel. He saved a good 
deal of money, though he lost some of it in unfortimate 
speculation. Still he was able to " husband out life's taper " 
in great happiness at Enfield, where he cultivated show 
roses. It seemed incredible that the weather-beaten old 
gardener, with a shock of white hair, expatiating on Marechal 
Niels and Gloires di Dijon could be the original exponent of : 

" I wish I was with Nancy 

In a second floor, for ever more 
I'd live and die with Nancy 

In the Strand, in the Strand, in the Strand 1 -' 

— and of : 

" Oh, lor 1 gals, I wish I'd lots of money. 
Charlestown is a mighty place. 
The folks they are so funny 
And they all are bound to go the whole hog or none." 

Mackney may be forgiven a spice of malice in the chuckle 
with which he read of Sims Reeves's decision to take to the 
music hall stage, in his decline ; for the great tenor had once 
peremptorily declined to appear on the same programme with 
him. 

Whether the "Great" Alfred Vance or the "Great" 
Arthur Lloyd first appeared upon the horizon of London I 
do not know — Vance, probably. He was a lawyer's clerk, 
in Lincoln's Inn Fields, then a provincial actor, Alfred Peck 
Stevens being, actually, his name. In a long-ago pantomine 
at the St James's Theatre he played clown. All this experi- 
ence stood him in good stead when he took to the variety 
stage. The " vocal comedians " of that time adopted crude 
expedients of make-up and costume. Vance — ^my authority 

92 



SINGERS WHO ARE SILENT 

is the late Hugh Jay Didcott — was always cap a pied. He 
preceded, and succeeded, Leyboume, of whom, for a long 
time, he was the rival. Leyboume struck a note with 
Champagne Charley. Vance responded with Clicquot, 
Clicquot, that's the Wine for me. And so they ran through 
the card, with ; Moet and Chandon's the Wine for me ; Cool 
Burgundy Ben ; Sparkling Moselle. 

Vance was first with the stage portrait of the " swell of 
the period " — ^fair hair, eye-glass, " faultless evening dress " 
— ^which has imitators to this day. But he had versatility. 
He was the first coster singer, with his Chickaleary Bloke. 
He could sing a moral, " motto " song with effect. Act on the 
Square, Boys ; act on the Square. Of course his name is 
inseparable from Slap Bang. He declined in popularity, and 
his death occurred at a hall he would hardly have considered 
in his great day, the Sun, Knightsbridge. In a barrister's 
wig and gown he sang a topical song, with the refrain, uttered 
as an appeal to the gallery, " Are you guilty ? " He fell un- 
conscious on the stage. A troupe of singers and dancers 
tripped lightly over his body, and carried on the show. A 
scene, quickly lowered, divided them from a dead man. 

Arthur Lloyd lived to earn the description, " last of the 
lion comiques." He was a Scotsman — ^rather a dull heavy 
man in social intercourse. His father was for years the 
favourite comedian of Edinburgh — an actor after the old 
Compton style, with a quince-Uke flavour of humour. The 
fact that this proud position never brought him in more than 
five pounds a week induced his son to take to the music halls, 
where I suppose the younger man soon ranked as a hundred- 
a-week man. He had a knack of song-writing, and published 
not fewer than two hundred songs, all of a considerable 

93 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

popularity, Arthur Lloyd had a passion for managing 
theatres, which generally failed, and a tremendous sense of 
his responsibility to a vast number of relations. The result 
was a life never free from money troubles in spite of his 
earnings. 

Of Leyboume I have spoken elsewhere. Another of this 
group was " Jolly John " Nash, a midland counties iron- 
master whose jovial songs had been in great demand at 
Masonic gatherings in the day of his prosperity, and who 
bravely entered professional life when ruin overtook him. 
Nash was one of the first music hall singers commanded to 
appear before Royalty. But of that anon. 

In succession to Arthur Lloyd and George Leyboume at 
the London Pavilion came G. H. Macdermott, the immortal 
singer of We Don't Want to Fight. Macdermott was a person 
of humble origin, Farrell by name — a bricklayer's labourer at 
the outset. He served in the Navy, and left an A.B. Success 
as an amateur actor on board ship induced him to try the 
regular stage, and for years as Gilbert Hastings he was a 
popular favourite at the Grecian Theatre. It was his pride 
to have there forestalled Irving as Becket, in a play — ^I believe 
of his own writing, for he developed the literary knack — 
called Fair Rosamund. Macdermott's migration to the 
variety stage, where for years he earned an immense income, 
was brought about by accident. Henry Pettitt, a young 
schoolmaster serving his noviciate as a dramatist at the 
Grecian Theatre, gave Macdermott a song with the refrain, 
" If ever there was a danmed scamp," with which the actor 
procured an engagement at the London Pavilion, meant in 
the first instance to fill up a holiday. But the holiday 
continued indefinitely. The Scamp became the talk of the 

94 




a < 







z ►J 
2 < 

feu 

a M 
^ 'J 



o •< 



SINGERS WHO ARE SILENT 

town, and incidentally drew from the headmaster of the North 
London Collegiate School a hint to his junior master that 
playwriting was clearly his vocation— not pedagogy. Pettitt 
took the hint, wrote a hundred melodramas, but died in the 
prime of manhood, leaving fifty thousand pounds. 

Macdermott had a commanding, as the years advanced 
rather brutal, presence. He had the rare gift of articulation, 
singing so clearly and sonorously that never a word escaped 
the most distantly located member of the audience. He had 
free views as to the quality of song that might be sung in a 
music haU. The directors of the London Pavilion — ^not then 
by any means particular persons — ^had other views, and 
effectually excluded the once idolised singer from the West 
End variety stage. 

The speech in which their chairman summed upj at the 
judicial meeting, laid down in clear language the point in 
suggestiveness which he thought a vocal comedian might 
safely and properly reach, enumerated the matters on which 
he thought the freest humour should not play in public, and 
gave precise meanings to Macdermott's double meanings. 
As a vade mecum of music hall art and morality this de- 
hverance woxild have been invaluable, and in lists of " rare 
and curious books" it would have been thrice starred. But, 
naturally, it did not achieve verbal record. 

Macdermott bought a series of halls at the East End, 
and prospered to his death. His second wife. Miss Annie 
Millbum, was, it is interesting to recall, a mimic of almost 
uncanny skiU, before Miss Cecilia Loftus was thought of. 
To the end of his days Macdermott cherished a grievance. 
He felt that he had done the state an immense service by the 
exploitation of We Don't Want to Fight. Perhaps he had. 

95 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

But he complained that it was never " recognised." What 
form he expected the recognition to take I know not. He 
beUeved that Disraeli and Montagu Corri once visited the 
London Pavilion and heard his song from a box. But he 
had not clear proof even of this. Sam Collins, nS Vagg, 
was a singer of Irish songs, of a lost type. He wore a 
caubeen, green dress-coat, drab breeches, worsted stockings 
and brogues, carried a shillelagh and a bundle and warbled 
The Rocky Road to Dublin. He began life as a chimney- 
sweep, and ended it as owner of the Islington Music Hall, 
which still bears his name. 

Old-timers speak kindly of the charm of Georgina Smithson, 
Louie Sherrington and Annie Adams, serio-comic singers. 
But I have no more precise information. Nelly Power had 
rare fascination, and West End managers eagerly tempted 
her to burlesque. She had a curious experience of fortune. 
It seemed that she had passed her zenith, and was steadily 
making downward. Then Mr E. V. Page, a city accoimtant 
with a wonderful facility in comic song writing, provided her 
with : 

" He wore a penny flower in his coat. 

La-di-da ! 
A penny paper collar round his throat, 

La-di-da ! 
In his hand a penny stick, 
In his teeth a penny pick. 
And a penny in his pocket. 

La-di-da I '-'- 

The St Martin's Siunmer of Nelly Power's prosperity due 
to this song was probably the best time of her life. 



96 



CHAPTER XIV 

HALF-A-CENTURY OP SONG 

The Ditties of Demos — Slap Bang, here we are again — The Tich- 
bome Claimant — " Motto " Songs 

WHEN one is writing of songs it is proper to recall 
" that very old man " known to Fletcher of 
Saltoun — slipshod citation says it was Fletcher 
himself — ^who cared not to make the laws of a people so long 
as he might be its bard. Time has given us more exact 
means of comparing the cash worth of each occupation. 
And Fletcher's friend, though his spirit was that of pure 
patriotism, might prove to have chosen the more profitable 
employment, for a song that really grips the popular imagina- 
tion has the making of a fortune. 

Not for me is it to discuss the ditties of Demos from a 
critical standpoint. This I will maintain — ^the composition 
of the music hall song is a very definite form of art, and when, 
on occasion, a person of Hterary distinction has made an in- 
cursion to the field with a song he has conceived to be of an 
" elevating " tendency, he has mostly failed. To quote one 
of his own favourites, the patron of the music hall " wants 
what he wants." 

Song pubUcation on modem lines began seriously with 

that of Not far Joe. Its sale of eighty thousand copies 

established, and long held, a record. Probably most of the 

profits went into the pockets of the publisher. It was many 

G 97 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

years ere the lyrist and composer appreciated the potentialities 
of a royalty. Song popularity is measured in millions now. 
Arthur Lloyd, the composer and expositor of Not for Joe, 
travelled townwards from his suburban home on an omnibus 
driven by the original Joe, a London character whose habitual 
negation was "No, thankee — ^not for Joe." So simple is 
the history of songs that have moved the world ! 

" Not for Joe " was for years the pet phrase of the Londoner, 

ho has often been indebted in that way to the music hall. 

Where did you get that hat," " Let 'em all come ! " " Get 
your 'air cut," " Ask a pleeceman," and " There's 'air " 
will occur to the veteran Cockney. " There he goes with his 
eye out," the special satire coined for the early volunteers, 
never claimed relationship with a lyric. 

Arthur Lloyd was already famous when he wrote Not for 
Joe. His diploma ditty was The German Band : 

'■' I loved her, and she might have been 
The happiest in the land. 
But she fancied a foreigner who played a flageolet 
In the middle of a German band." 

Lloyd sang a Japanese nonsense song with which the topers 
of the time were wont to test their sobriety : 

" PoUsrwollyamo, nogo, soki, 
PoUjnvo-a-lumpa shoes two tees, 
Slopey in the eye ; flat-nosed beauty, 
Poll3nvollywolly 1 Jolly Japanese.'' 

Vance is best remembered by : 

" Slap bang, here we are again, here we are again ; 
Slap bang, here we are again — and 
We always are so joUy, so joUy, 
Yes, we always are so jolly. 
As joUy as can be.'- 
98 




Arthur Okton : The " Tichbokne Claimant 



HALF-A-CENTURY OF SONG 

A verse of his coster song is interesting, if only as an example 
of the strange mutation of London slang. It is incompre- 
hensible, now, to any other than an " earnest student " of 
argot : 

-' I'm a chickaleary bloke, vith my von, two, three; 
Vitechapel vas the village I vos born in. 

For to get me on the hop, 

Or on my tibby drop, 
You've got to get up early in the mornin'."- 

Casual writers overlook the fact that there was a changing 
chorus to Pettitt's Scamp song. 

" If ever there was a damned scamp, 
. I flatter myself I am he. 

From William the Norman to Brigham the Mormon, 
They can't hold a candle to me '■'■ 

is obvious. But modem readers may be baffled by the 
reference of 

-- From Roger to Odger — the artful old dodger — 
They can't hold a candle to me."- 

Roger is Arthur Orton, otherwise Sir Roger Tichbome, the 
" Claimant," who himself lived to become a music hall artist, 
lecturing on his wrongs, when he had completed his sentence 
of fourteen years — ^as to seven years for fraud and as to 
seven years for perjury. Odger is Greorge Odger, would-be 
working man Member of Parliament. One night Odger's 
son hissed the singer, and promoted a disturbance which 
brought him up at Bow Street ; but the magistrate held that 
the defendant was justified and dismissed him. This after 
his coimsel had said : " It is an insult to patrons of the theatre 

99 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

to compare them with the patrons of the music hall. If the 
latter were closed a great service would be done to the State, 
for they are the bane of modem London — corrupting and 
debasing youth and creating a distaste for all intellectual 
pastime." 
Macdermott's later song : 

■ ' We don't want to fight, but by Jingo if we do. 
We've got the ships, we've got the men. 
We've got the money too. 
We've fought the Bear before, and 
While Britons still are true 
The Russians shall not have Constantinople," 

No song, I will not even except Tipperary, had an experience 
so remarkable. We Don't Want to Fight was translated 
into every language employing the printing press. It was 
mentioned in Parliament. It was quoted in a Times leader. 
It provided Punch with cartoon after cartoon. Learned 
men engaged in controversy as to the origin and meaning 
of the word, " Jingo," which, anyway, acquired and still has 
an exact significance as describing politicians of a certain 
temperament and method. 

We Don't Want to Fight was written and composed by G. W. 
Hunt, a little man with a flamboyant moustache, who had 
been manager of the Cambridge Music Hall. ,Hunt more 
often than otherwise composed the music of his songs too. 
He would borrow a hint from a popular waltz, or even from 
a Lutheran hymn — just as, in later years, a prolific com- 
poser of music hall songs betrays to the expert his intimate 
knowledge of Jewish melody. Himt had a nose for the topical, 
as he proved in We Don't Want to Fight, which he dashed off 
after a perusal of his morning paper, disturbing Macdermott 

100 



HALF-A-CENTURY OF SONG 

in his second sleep, or maybe his first, for he was a convivial 
creature, in order to strum the tune. 

Hunt was especially the lyrist for George Leyboume, for 
whom he wrote fifty songs — ^but not Champagne Charley. 
That was the work of one Alfred Lee, who, when he came to 
town with the manuscript, had to search the remote comers 
of his pocket to produce the toll then demanded of every 
passenger across Waterloo Bridge, and felt his heart sink 
to his boots while Sheard the publisher very slowly 
made up his mind to advance twenty pounds on the deal. 
Elderly folk will catch, again, the topical references of 
such songs as Walking in the Zoo, The Flying Trapeze, 
Zazel! Zazel! Up in a Balloon, Riding on a Donkey — ^all 
Hunt's contributions to the Leyboume repertory. His 
Captain Cuff, designed as a companion study to Champagne 
Charley, failed to secure an equal popularity, but had a 
considerable vogue : 

'' Some coons go in for whiskers, some 
For most unpleasant dogs. 
Some fellows have a weakness for 
The most outrageous togs. 
I'm very strong on linen — yes. 
And wouldn't give a doUar 
For life without a splendid show 
Of snow-white cuff and collar." 

(Spoken) " Which has earned for me the title of : 

'• Captain Cuff, Captain Cuff, you can tell me by my coUar. 
Captain Cuff, Captain Cuff, though I'm not worth half a dollar, 
I'm awfuUy stiff in style, as my cigarette I puff. 
They cry, ' Hi I clear the way, here comes Captain Cuff.' " 

Another singer of the Cockney-Horatian school was Harry 
Rickards — a mechanic again, from Woolwich, who was 

lOI 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

famous for Captain Jinks of the Horse Marines ; still more 
for: 

" Cerulea was beautiful, 
Cerulea was fair. 
She lived with her gran'ma 
In Gooseberry Square. 
She was once my unkydoodleum, 
But now, alas, she 
Plays kissy-kissy with an officer 
In the artiUer-ee.'' 

Rickards got into apparently inextricable difficulties, 
and went to Australia in a hurry. There the music hall 
was imknown. Beginning in a small way, he added palace 
to palace, and, lately died, on the way to a millionaire. 

Godfrey was good at the " Hi-tiddly-hi-ti-ti " business, 
but there was the " heavy man " of the old school in him still, 
and he was at his best with such songs as On the Bridge at 
Midnight : 

" Next a form approaches at a halting pace. 
Grief had failed to shatter the beauty of her face. 
Promises and falsehoods fondly she beheved ; 
Now her dream is ended — forsaken and deceived. 
Silently to Heaven she offers up a prayer. 
Gazes at the river, then shudders in despair. 
Clutching some love token in her withered hands, 
Like an apparition on the brink she stands. 
' Why did he forsake me. 

Him I loved so well ? '- 

— Hark, the beU is tolling ; 

Bidding earth farewell, 

Frantically her hands, high 

In the air she throws ; 
A sigh, a leap, a scream, 'tis done ; 

As o'er the bridge she goes.'-' 

What a bright page in music hall history is that filled by 

102 




c 
X 




HALF-A-CENTURY OF SONG 

Harry Clifton. His cheery "motto " songs, faulty in form 
but faultless in sentiment, were mostly adapted to his friend 
Charles Coote's waltzes. Paddle your Own Canoe, for instance, 
utilised the melody of Queen of the Harvest. To the Innocence 
Waltz, Harry Clifton sang : 



' Then do your best for one another, 
Making hfe a pleasant dream. 
Help a worn and weary brother 
Pulling hard against the stream." 



Another of the genial philosopher's songs was Wait for the 
Turn of the Tide: 

" Then try to be happy and gay, my boys, 
Remember the world is wide. 
And Rome wasn't built in a day, my boys, 
So wait for the turn of the tide.'' 

Herbert Campbell's fat, confidential way lent itself to a 
topical song with the refrain : 

" They're all very fine and large, 

They're fat, they're sound and prime, 
If you fancy you can beat 'em. 

It wiU take you aU your time. 
They're the widest in creation, 

And I make no extra charge, 
Now who'U have a chance for a dozen or two. 

They're all very fine and large." 



lo 



CHAPTER XV 

BALLETS AND BALLET DANCERS 

The Cancan at the Alhambra — Police Interference — Some Old-time 
Favourites — Genre's Arrival — Kate Vaughan and the Gaiety 
School — Booming Maud Allan 

THERE is no brighter gem in the crown of the 
music hall than the ballet, which it rescued from 
the neglect of the opera house, and sedulously- 
nurtured. Ballet during the earlier half of the nineteenth 
centm-y was an adjunct of the opera, often, indeed, the more 
important constituent of the programme. But Le Corsair, 
in which Rosati danced during the season of 1858, was the 
last of the great opera ballets, and dancing bade fair to become 
a lost art till the expanding variety theatre offered it an 
asylum. At the Canterbury Music Hall, at the Metropolitan 
and at the South London large cor'ps de ballet were maintaiaed. 
When Strange became manager of the Alhambra an 
Oriental ballet, foimded on Auber's opera, Azael, and entitled 
VEnfant Prodigue, was his first production of importance. 
A little Hungarian ballet had among its exponents the 
brothers Imre and Bolossy Kiraefy, destined to become 
famous metteurs en scene and company promoters, and their 
sister Anita. The legitimate theatres developed a furious 
jealousy of the Alhambra and invoked the law. But the 
Alhambra wrought its own undoing. In the late summer 
of 1870 a ballet called Les Nations was produced. The 

104 



BALLETS AND BALLET DANCERS 

theatre had just previously lost its popular premidre danseuse 
of several seasons, Pitteri, a beautiful Venetian, who died 
in poverty, and by way of giving ^clat to the new ballet, 
Mademoiselle Colonna was engaged to head a Parisian 
quadrille, in fact the cancan, a performance of which the 
Prince and Princess of Wales had previously contemplated 
at the Lyceum without complaint or hurt. Colonna and her 
friends footed it merrily for five weeks at the AUiambra. 
It was an unfortxmate coincidence that at the end of that 
time the Alhambra had to apply for a renewal of its licence, 
which, without a word of warning, and after very little 
discussion, was withheld ! 

A series of promenade conceri;s was instantly inaugurated. 
The Franco-Gennan War was then at its fiercest encoimters, 
and there were nightly scenes at the Alhambra far more 
dangerous to the public morale, one thinks, than the cancan 
could have been. M. Riviere's band played The Watch on 
the Rhine, and the Germans roared approval ; it proceeded 
to the Marseillaise, and the French coimter<<Iemonstrated. 
Meanwhile Colonna and her party proceeded to the Globe 
Theatre, and in The White Cat burlesque danced their 
" Parisian quadrille " to admiration and without interrup- 
tion. The directors of the Alhambra proceeded to the 
Lord Chamberlain, who complacently accorded them his 
licence. They swept away the tables which, covering the 
vast floor space, had accommodated convivial groups, and 
opened the Alhambra as a theatre. For fourteen years 
thereafter this was the home of comic opera, with interpolated 
or auxiliary ballet. But dividends at the rate of twenty-five 
per cent, ceased. Such works as Le Roi Carotte, The Black 
Crook, La Belle Helene, Don Jitan — ^an extravaganza by H. J. 

105 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Byron, not to be confoimded with other versions, memorable 
for nightly demonstrations, which became a public scandal, 
by the friends respectively of Kate Santley and Rose Bell — 
La Jolie Tarfumeuse, Whittington, Spectresheim, Die Fleder- 
maus, OrpMe aux Enfers, Le Fille de Madame Angot, The 
Grand Duchess, Fatinitza, La Perichole, La Poule aux CEufs 
d'Or, The Princess of Trebizonde, Rothomago, La Petite 
Mademoiselle, La Fille du Tambour Major, The Bronze 
Horse, Babil and Bijou, The Merry War and The Beggar 
Student; interpreted by such artists as Kate Santley, 
Emily Soldene, Jidia Matthews, Comeille D'Anka, Selina 
Dolaro and Constance Loseby. 

Mostly the ballets were the compositions of M. Georges 
Jacobi, a German who became a naturalised Frenchman, 
crossed the Channel at the time of the Franco-German War 
and was a true Londoner to the day of his death, thirty years 
later. Jacobi's room at the Alhambra had the character- 
istics of a select delightful club. He wrote nearly a hundred 
ballets for the Alhambra — ^until, indeed, he became a con- 
vention and, rather than accommodate himself to a new 
order of things, resigned. But he was never happy 
elsewhere. 

Ballets that come back to the memory of the old-time 
frequenter of the Alhambra are The Enchanted Forest, 
Fretillon ; or a Night in China, Cupid in Arcadia, The Flower 
Queen, The Fairies' Home, Yolande, The Golden Wreath, The 
Bells, The Carnival of Venice, Carmen, Margherita and 
Hawaya. When, in 1884, the music hall licence was restored 
to the penitent, and meanwhile not too prosperous, theatre, 
two ballets. The Swans and Melusine, were done, and, there- 
after, two each year. Nina, The Bivouac, Dresdina, The 

io6 



BALLETS AND BALLET DANCERS 

Seasons, Nadia, Algeria, Enchantment, Antiope, Ideala, Irena, 
Army and Navy, Astrea, Asmodeus, Salandra, The Sleeping 
Beauty, Orietta, Temptation, On the Ice, Don Juan, Aladdin, 
Chicago, Fidelio, Don Quixote, The Revolt of the Daughters, 
Sita, All Baba, Titania, Lochinvar, Bluebeard, Donnybrook, 
Tzigane, Beauty and the Beast, Victoria and Merry England, 
Jack Ashore, The Bed Sleeves, A Day Off, Soldiers of the Queen, 
The Handy Man, The Gay City, Gretna Green, Britannia's 
Realm, The Devil's Forge, Carmen, All the Year Round, 
Entente Cordiale, My Lady Nicotine, Parisiana, L' Amour, 
The Queen of Spades, Les Cloches de Corneville, Sal-oh-my, 
The Two Flags, Paquita, On the Square, Pysche, On the Heath, 
Our Flag, Femina, On the Sands, The Dance Dream, 1830, and 
The Guide to Paris employed such dancers as Pertoldi, who 
married Tito Mattei the composer, Palladino, still living, 
the wife of a well-known member of the Eccentric Club, and 
Vincenti (a wonderful pirouettist). For many years the 
mattre du ballet, M. Coppi, also supervised a useful school. 

In 1887 the Alhambra, for the first time during many years, 
had a serious rival. Then, the Empire definitely became a 
variety theatre, and in its first programmes as such included 
two ballets, initiating a policy, long followed, of a ballet 
on academic lines, Dilara, and one of a topical character. 
Sports of England. There succeeded : Rose D' Amour, Diana, 
Robert Macaire, The Bal Masque, Cleopatra, The Paris 
Exhibition, The Dream of Wealth, Cecile, Dolly, Orfeo, By 
the Sea, Nisita, Versailles, Round the Town, Katrina, The 
Girl I Left Behind Me, La Frolique, On Brighton Pier, Faust, 
La Danse, Monte Christo, Under One Flag, The Press, Our 
River, Alaska, Ordered to the Front, Sea-side, Les Papillons, 
Ola China, Our Crown, The Milliner Duchess, Vineland, 

107 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

High Jinks, The Dancing Doll, The Bugle Call, Cinderella, 
Coppelia, The Debutante, Sir Roger de Coverley, and The 
Belle of the Ball. 

Katti Laimer, nominally the maitresse de ballet, was actually 
the autocrat of the Empire stage for many years — ^though 
M. WUhelm, a very English gentleman? in spite of the name 
he assumed, contrived to vindicate his position as the genius 
of design. Laimer was a Viennese, of considerable celebrity 
as a dancer on the Continent when Mapleson brought her to 
London. For fifteen years she danced, but more and more 
devoted herself to " production. " She founded a school, and 
in fact its pupils formed the nucleus of the Empire ballet. 
She was an excellent teacher, liked by her pupils — but the 
indenture of apprenticeship which bound them to her, if it 
erred on either side in generosity, certainly did not select the 
apprentice for its aberration. Dancers of the rank and file 
are shamefully ill paid. 

Lanner's appearance before the curtain was the consum- 
mation of a " first night " at the Empire. Her huge body 
encased in black silk, gold chains about her neck, her head 
surmounted by a fair wig, the nightly arrival whereof from a 
neighbouring hairdresser was one of the anxiously awaited 
moments in the life of the Empire, Lanner would smile and 
bow and kiss her hand, then impulsively snatch and kiss 
any convenient ballet-baby. And then we comfortably 
said " All's well " and went home. 

Genee arrived at the Empire, also by way of Vienna, in 
1897. In spite of her French name, she is a Dane — ^Miss 
Petersen, from Copenhagen. This consummate little artist 
stayed contentedly at the Empire for fifteen years. London 
got to love her very dearly, and yet I do not believe it had 

io8 



BALLETS AND BALLET DANCERS 

any idea what a treasure it possessed till American enterprise 
tempted her with an increase of salary — say, ten times the 
Empire's extreme figure. 

Almost as essential to academic ballet as the premiere 
danseuse is tiie mime-lover. For years, Malvina Cavalazzi 
was the handsome hero of the Empire ballets. She had been 
a dancer and travelled the world over. I think her last 
appearance in this capacity was in Excelsior at His Majesty's. 

Meanwhile the Gaiety had done its share in the cult of 
dancing. Kate Vaughan, the English dancer most appellant 
to the imagination, was a product of the music hall. Care- 
fully trained in the Italian style at Islington, she danced at 
Cremome and roimd the variety theatres ere she caught the 
eye of John HoUingshead ; and as a music hall artist made 
her first appearance at the Gaiety on Ash Wednesday, 1872, 
when he put up a variety entertainment by way of a protest 
against the old law which forbade a theatrical performance 
on that day. When Miss VaUghan left the Gaiety to become 
a serious actress, the critics were hardly just to ber, for she 
was a notably fine Lady Teazle, and Peggy in The Country 
Girl She returned to her old love for the extra decoration of 
Excelsior at His Majesty's. I believe Charles Hawtrey con- 
trived to lose a considerable part of the fortune he made out 
of ThePrivate Secretary on the reproduction here of the famous 
Italian ballet. Miss Vaughan introduced a solo, for which she 
received seventy pounds a week ; and the newspapers made 
wonderful computations as to the pounds per minute she 
received for her brief occupation of the stage. Ten times 
seventy pounds falls short of Pavlova's fee, on occasion. 

Kate Vaughan^'s colleague at the Gaiety, Connie Gilchrist, 
was a skipping-rope dancer from the music halls, as her 

109 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

predecessor, Rose Fox (the mother of Maude Darrell), was ; 
and her successor, Sylvia Grey. Letty Lind, Topsy Sinden, 
Katie Seymour and Alice Lethbridge complete the Gaiety 
group. 

In the early nineties Loie Fuller created a mild sensation, 
and raised a crop of imitators, by a so-called serpentine dance 
which she claimed to have invented, but which the erudite 
Mr Sala traced to Emma Hart, Lady Hamilton. 

It is safe to say that had Maud Allan's performance been 
casually introduced to the Palace programme it would have 
had a short shrift. Instead, it was managed with exquisite 
showmanship by Alfred Butt, with the assistance of the 
late Augustus Moore. For years Moore had professed the 
belief that an insidious and insistent journalist could make 
the London public form any opinion he chose as to the merit 
of a performance. He put his theories into careful practice 
with Maud Allan. The result was that for a year all London, 
high and low, swarmed to the Palace to admire and applaud 
an artist of whom it had never heard before and whose 
antecedents proved, upon investigation, to be quite curious. 

Mr Butt's first step was to issue invitations to a private 
performance. So aristocratic an audience has never filled 
a music hall, save at the command of royalty, as that which 
filled the Palace that afternoon in 1908. What persons of 
such high rank had applauded, should any common creature 
dare criticise ? 

Moore's part was the preparation of a pamphlet, insidiously 
circulated — ^and forming the basis of nine-tenths of the 
newspaper notices next day. Some critics ingenuously 
adopted its style and sentiment as their own. Some 
modestly placed inverted commas to choice extracts. Some 

110 



BALLETS AND BALLET DANCERS 

interpolated a word or two of deprecation. But in one fonn 
or another Moore's work insinuated itself to every breakfast- 
table in London next day. The newspaper men had assimi- 
lated his ready-made raptures as readily as the dupe accepts 
the card chosen by the conjurer. And the Maud Allan boom 
began, and continued, as no boom did before in the history 
of the variety stage. 

Miss Maud Allan, we were told, " is in artistic sympathy 
with those Latin races whose fair bodies and acute passions 
have brought about the greatest crimes passionelles which 
the world has ever seen. She is perfectly made, with slender 
wrists and ankles that speak the artist temperament. Each 
of her rose-tipped fingers is instinct with intention. Her 
skin is satin smooth, crossed only by the pale tracery of 
delicate veins that lace the ivory of her round bosom and 
slowly waving arms." In the Vision of Salome we are 
shown " Herodias's daughter . . . the dazzling radiance of 
her warm body only enhanced by the sacred fires shimmering 
on the ropes of pearls and plaques of jewels that enviously 
hide the exquisite delights of her form. . . . Her naked feet, 
slender and arched, beat a sensual measure. The pink 
pearls slip amorously about her throat and bosom as she 
moves, while the long strands of jewels float languorously 
apart from the sheen of her smooth hips. The desire that 
flames from her eyes and bursts in hot gusts from her scarlet 
mouth infect the very air with the madness of passion. 
Swaying like a white witch, with yearning arms and hands 
that plead, Maud AUan is such a delicious embodiment of 
lust that she might win forgiveness for the sins of such 
wonderful flesh. As Herod catches fire, so Salome dances 
even as a Bacchante, twisting her body like a silver snake 

III 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

eager for its prey panting with hot passion, the fire of her 
eyes scorching Uke a hving furnace." 

Enough has been written, with more or less sincerity, on the 
aesthetic aspect of Maud Allan's work. Its moral aspect is 
not my business. She earned vast sums of money for herself 
and for her entrepreneurs. And she had a hundred imitators, 
who grew in daring as they retreated from grace. Here and 
there authority bestirred itself. But at last the public turned 
from classical dancing as it had turned from living statuary, 
in a very nausea of nakedness. Let me give Maud Allan a 
postscript of gratitude. She aroused a new interest io 
dancing — eventually, in disgraceful dancing, but the interest 
expanded. Men read about dancing, wrote about dancing, 
talked about dancing as they had not done for years. She 
paved the way to Petrograd and made Pavlova possible. 



112 



CHAPTER XVI 



AMERICAN COUSINS 



Early American Visitors to London — Augustin Daly and Charles 
Frohman — ^The American Chorus Girl — Edna May's Girlhood — 
Negro Minstrelsy — Mr Gladstone as a Comic Singer 

DURING the past twenty years commerce between 
the English and American stages has grown to 
vast dimensions. It may be said to have begim in 
earnest with Augustin Daly's visits, chiefly at first to the 
Strand Theatre, in the eighties, with farces adapted in a 
characteristic way from the French and German. Daly's 
more candid critics declared the literary equipment, before 
they attacked Shakespeare and Wycherley, of Ada Rehan, 
John Drew, James Lewis and Mrs Gilbert to be quite im- 
worthy of them. But the Daly farces were innocence by 
comparison with what was called " Criterion comedy." 
That, again, was destined to be put in a cool shade by the 
later method of American adaptation, whidi dealt with the 
improprieties of "Hotel Libre-Exchange," for instance, by 
the simple process of leaving them alone, and so set a new 
and nasty fashion. 

In the course of time Daly overreached himself. No 
doubt he made exceptions, but his personal attitude was un- 
pleasant toward individuals and aggressive toward the public. 
To the actors and actresses in his employment he was an 
autocrat, as no manager nowadays is able to be autocratic. 
H 113 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

His contracts laid down rules for conduct in the street, for 
attire and hairdressing, as to the manner in which he should 
be approached — ^though I do not believe he went so far as 
one English actor of title, who promulgated a request that 
members of his company should not recognise him in the 
street ! Daly forbade, under penalty, any traffic with news- 
paper representatives in the way of an " interview," or 
any rSclame by the individual. He treated his artists as 
puppets in his scheme of mise en scene ; but he was indubitably 
a brilliant stage manager, and the English stage owed much 
to him. 

(Jeorge Edwardes projected the theatre off Leicester Square, 
which was built according to Daly's ideas, and handed over 
to him on a long lease. He gave it his name — offence number 
one to English susceptibilities ; and he ran up the stars and 
stripes — offence nmnber two. Playgoers who had tendered 
him profuse hospitality as a visitor resented his assimiption, 
as a resident, of the " boss " attitude, which Charles Frohman, 
his successor in the course of time, so sedulously avoided. 
Daly's company only occupied Daly's Theatre at intervals, 
and achieved no particular success there. Then, Mr 
Edwardes was in the curious position of taking a sub-lease 
of his own house and paying a profit rental to his own 
tenant. Recently he resumed full possession, the Daly 
lease having expired. Daly seldom came into personal 
collision with the public, but freely circulated his portrait, 
so the chopped moustache, shoe-string tie and seldom 
removed "billy-cock," of the type nowadays affected by 
Mr Winston Churchill, were familiar enough. 

In succession to Daly came Charles Frohman, whose career 
ended so tragically on the Lusitania. Frohman first visited 

114 



AMERICAN COUSINS 

London filling a modest position on the managerial staff of 
Haverley's Minstrels. In the course of time he leased half- 
a-dozen London theatres, he " cornered " all the important 
dramatists and he shipped half bur yoimg actors and actresses 
across the Atlantic, occasionally restoring them to the 
Strand. His commitments amounted to millions of money, 
but he never made a contract ; and he always kept his word. 
He Uved in hotels, smoked many cigars, had no interest or 
amusement outside the theatre, and few could say they knew 
him. That he was wholly, or mainly, inspired by a love of 
art, it is impossible to say. Think of A Night Out ! But 
undoubtedly he acquired, and exploited, if he did not inspire, 
some of the best work of the modem stage. And the greater 
the transaction, the greater the respect of those concerned 
for the fat, important-seeming, retiring little man. He was 
generous in his promises, and honest in their fulfilment. 

Edwin Forest, to be historic, was the first American visitor 
to our stage of conspicuous importance. He quarrelled 
with Macready about fancied wrongs ; and the sequel was 
a tragical riot when Macready visited New York. But what 
a favourite here was Joseph Jefferson, in the sixties. He 
stayed three years, and went home with a greatly augmented 
fortune. Of actresses, Charlotte Cushman made a profound 
sensation here. But perhaps one had better not dwell on 
this instance, for London was desperately unkind to Charlotte 
before it took her to its heart. She nearly starved ere she 
was able to fulfil her passionate oath that she would conquer 
in the end. Mary Anderson, the idol of several seasons, 
thought well enough of England fio marry, and to settle 
here — ^within a mile or two of Shakespeare's birthplace. 

Irving's first manager at the Lyceum was an American, 

"5 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Colonel Bateman ; his first leading lady the American, 
Isabel Bateman, now a nun. And that memory, maybe, 
gave an extra wannth of cordiality to his welcome when 
Edwin Booth joined him at the Lyceum for a memorable 
series of performances of Othello. The cordiality was lack- 
ing when Henry Dixey, " Adonis " Dixey, arrived. Dixey 
specialised on a caricature of Irving — ^always resentful of 
such exercises in humour, and particularly resentful of 
this, which was insolent and cruel. It was generally \mder- 
stood that the licensing authorities were moved to restrain 
Dixey, and there was a good deal of ill feeling between the 
actors. 

Few comedians were more popular here than John Sleeper 
Clarke, who owned the old Strand theatre. Richard 
Mansfield was English born, and an old Savoyard. It may 
be that London did not, when he appeared here, in 1888 and 
1889, take him at the valuation he had meanwhile set up in 
America. From Mansfield, then, came the first outcry of 
imfair treatment of American artists by European audiences, 
oft-times repeated, always without foimdation. On the 
other hand, a London success enormously increases the 
prestige, even of the greatest New York favourite. That is 
why, when an American artist fails here, he goes home fierce 
with stories of organised opposition and insular prejudice. 
So great is the injury to his reputation and monetary status, 
it must be explained, by any expedient. 

But, with what tenderness and affection Rose Stahl 
always speaks of this country ; and with what good 
reason ! A fairly successful actress throughout America, 
it was reserved for the Palace audience to see genius 
in The Chorus Lady, and when she went home again 

ii6 



AMERICAN COUSINS 

America endorsed this opinion in the American way, by 
making her a millionaire ! 

Apropos chorus ladies, we began the export to New York 
of haughty blondes, by the agency of Lydia Thompson, many 
years ago. When the Gaiety took up the business, marriage 
depleted the George Edwardes companies to an alarming 
extent. Suddenly, America invented a new type of chorus 
girl, and in a charming spirit of reciprocity, sent us specimens. 
Who can forget the impression made by The Belle of Nem 
York, when it was produced at the Shaftesbury Theatre in 
1898? 

Mr WiUiam Archer denounced it as a "profligate orgy." 
No matter ! It ran nearly two years. Somewhere or other, it 
is running still. Much of its success was due to those regal, 
restless chorus girls, but more to Edna May, who married 
well, and still adorns London society, now and then singing 
Follow On for a charity with the demureness and simplicity 
of twenty years ago. Mr C. M. S. M'Clellan, who alternates 
musical comedy with the soul-searching, or the pseudo- 
soul-searching, Leah Kleshna, told me the story of Edna 
May's beginning. " When we were casting The Belle of New 
York for production at the New York Casino, we were con- 
fronted by a difficulty, for we wanted the Salvation Army to 
have purity and charm, and to be absolutely free from offence 
— ^no ' popular favourite ' for us ! We got to the point of 
rehearsing the piece without having an idea of its leading 
lady. One day a girl in our chorus who had heard a whisper 
of our difficulty, asked to see Mr Lederer and myself after a 
rehearsal, and said she had a cousin, a girl in Hammerstein's 
chorus, whom she was sure of. We said : ' Bring her along,' 
and so Edna May (but her name was Pettie then) arrived. 

"7 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

She was so very demure, so unassiuning that we thought we 
had exceeded the limit. Anyhow, we rehearsed her. After 
we had run her through, Lederer looked at me, and I looked 
at him. We did not need to speak." 

Mr R. G. Knowles is wont to resent the suggestion that he 
held no position in America ere he came to London, in 1891, 
but he will not deny that he owes immense aggrandisement to 
English approval — ^which, again, he worked very hard to 
secure. Seldom has there been such a trial of strength 
between an audience, which did not quite " get " the " very 
peculiar American comedian," and an actor, who was de- 
termined to win, and did. There is now an intimacy between 
" Dick " Knowles and his " kind friends in front " without 
parallel. 

Earlier visitors from England to America in the way of 
music hall performers were not specially happy. Jenny 
Hill, in spite of a freely circulated glossary of her slang, was 
a comparative failure. Chevalier did not bring home the 
pleasantest memory, at any rate, of his first night. Dan Leno 
was a failure. Chirgwin took the first boat home. The music 
hall, or " vawderville," as they curiously miscall it there, 
was in its infancy. But when it did begin to grow. Jack's 
beanstalk was a fool to it. The immense trusts of to-day 
think nothing of offering an English artist five times, or even 
ten times, the salary he commands here, up to a thousand 
pounds a week. And America is arbitrary in making its own 
favourites. Twice at any rate during the past few years 
has it advanced a girl of chorus rank here, from a few pounds 
a week to himdreds. 

We owe, or we owed, to America, negro minstrelsy, which, 
after a life of little more than half-a-century, is as dead 

ii8 



AMERICAN COUSINS 

as Queen Anne. For the curious it may be recorded that 
the first English perfonner to black his face, and to sing a 
song entitled The Coal Black Rose, was the famous comedian 
of the Haymarket, John Baldwin Buckstone. Rice, one of 
the fathers of American minstrelsy, visited this country in 
1836 to sing the song that made him famous. Jump, Jim 
Crow ! He is said to have developed the song, and dance, 
firom the antics of a deformed negro stable help, whom he 
watched from the windows of his apartments in Louisville. 
London caught the madness of New York. The streets rang 
with the refrain of the song : 

"Wheel about, turn about, 
Do jes so ; 
An' ebery time I wheel about 
I jump Jim Crow." 

There were Jim Crow hats, Jim Crow pipes — Jim Crow 
everything. 

Soon " Christy Minstrel " troupes crossed the Atlantic, and 
here, as in America, fought for the right to that description. 
The entertainment became immensely popular. Sir Robert 
Peel patronised it gleefuUy. Thackeray wrote of it tenderly. 
Gladstone is said to have distinguished himself greatly by 
his performance, at private parties, of : 

" We're bound to ride all night, 
We're bound to ride all day. 
And I bet my money on the bob-tailed nag — 
And I lost my money on the grey.'' 

Queen Victoria, who for years averted her face from the 
regular theatre, but bestowed a curious patronage on wild 
beast shows, circuses and so forth, often, at the entreaty of 
her grandchildren, permitted a travelling minstrel troupe to 

119 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

visit Balmoral, and professed to be deeply touched by the 
late Charles Bernard's rendering of — 

'■ Just before the battle, mother, 
I was thinking most of you." 

For years the Moore and Burgess Minstrels thrived so 
greatly at St James's Hall that they were able to boast that 
they "never performed out of London." So strangely 
assorted a pair as George Washington, familiarly " Pony," 
Moore and Frederick Burgess surely never lived together in 
business amity. Away from St James's Hall they hardly 
met. Burgess, who was the commercial manager, collected 
first editions — ^his library fetched historic prices, after his 
death — ^and courted the society of literary men, whom he 
entertained lavishly. 

Moore was the autocrat of the entertainment, for which 
he contrived to get the reputation of innocuousness to schools 
and families. His personal predilection was the prize ring. 
He loved to be surrounded by pugilists, and betted largely 
on their encoimters. His origin was lowly — ^he got his nick- 
name as a boy in an American circus — ^and his personal 
habits curious. But he had a gift of melody, and put his 
name to hundreds of songs, if he were not able to prove their 
actual composition ; for instance : 

■' Don't you hear dem bells ? 
Don't you hear dem beUs ? 
Yes, I hear dem bells," 

which was sung at his graveside by a minstrel choir. 

Here is a sample of his method. He gave an experimental 
engagement to an American ballad vocalist and humorist, 
whose singing at rehearsal he casually approved, but added 

120 



AMERICAN COUSINS 

impressively : " What you've got to do, is to make 'em laf ; 
and if you don't make 'em laf, there's a boat sails for home 
on Wednesday." The confident comedian prepared a joke 
which had shaken New York to its foundations : " Why is 
an old maid like a tomayto ? " the answer being : " Bekase 
there's no male to mate her." Pray observe the American 
accent. He sang his song with fine effect. Full of courage, 
he attacked the interlocutor with his conundrum. " Well, 
sir," repeated that important person in the approved style ; 
" And why is an old maid like a tomahto ? " Faintly 
came the response : " Bekase — ^bekase the boat sails on 
Wednesday." 

Once a year Moore took a benefit, and gave a ball, which 
some of the greatest in stageland delighted to honour. 
It was the most important function in old Bohemia. 
Morning broke on a wild orgy ; and Moore's speech of 
acknowledgment was wont to be unprintable — ^at any rate, 
his supplementary speeches were. But whatever his strange 
characteristics, negro minstrelsy died with him. The St 
James's Hall entertainment, with the author of the ineffable 
Passing of the Third Floor Back added to its staff, was formed 
into a limited liability company. A vast hotel has swallowed 
up even its site ! 



121 



CHAPTER XVII 

NIGHT CLUBS 

The Receptions of Madam Cornelys — Early Victorian Night Houses 
— The Corinthian Club — Two Lovely Black Eyes — Sergeant 
Ballantyne behind the Scenes 

WHEN St Patrick's Day comes round, Irishmen in 
London prefer to do reverence to their patron 
saint at the church in Soho Square, which has a 
deeply interesting history of its own — ^but it does not come 
within the scope of these records. Still, I wonder how many 
of the pious pilgrims know that they are making their way 
to the scene of the first night club ? For St Patrick's, 
Soho, occupies in part the site of the mansion where Madam 
Cornelys conducted her famous Receptions. Teresa, we 
know, had been an opera singer on the Continent — you will 
find much scandalous detail of her earlier in the memoirs of 
the veracious Casanova. She acquired Carlisle House ; and 
for several seasons smart society danced the nights through 
under her direction. She must have had much skill in 
organisation. Her advertisements were dignified and 
plausible ; her charges of admission were high. The diarists 
of that time describe glowing scenes in the great ballroom 
which enclosed the garden of Carlisle House. But Madame 
did not manage to make a fortune. She had rivals, and 
powerful enemies ; and, after strange vicissitudes, including 
the sale of asses' milk in the parks, died in the Fleet Prison. 

122 



'¥ 










W 



§: 






Mabel Gray 



NIGHT CLUBS 

At any rate there was not to be seen at her Receptions the 
unveUed vice of the Kate Hamiltons and the Motts of Early 
Victorian days; or at the more pubhc Piccadilly Saloon, 
near the Criterion, the Holbom Casino (where the notorious 
Mabel Gray led the dances) on the site of which the Holbom 
Restaurant now stands, and the Argyll Rooms, engulfed in 
another restaurant, the Trocadero. Mabel Gray was an 
assistant at Shoolbred's in her girlhood. Tradition said she 
married a Russian prince, and died in childbirth. 

Colonel Greville, a buck of the Regency, foimded the 
Argyll Rooms, which at first maintained a good style, in 
competition with the Pantheon. The first building, known 
as Laiu-ent's Casino, of considerable beauty, was destroyed 
by fire. There is extant a picture of the later rooms by 
George Cruikshank's brother Robert — The Cyprian's Ball. 

When the Argyll Rooms lost their licence for dancing their 
last manager, Robert Bign6ll, who had made a vast fortune, 
turned the building, with very little alteration, into a music 
hall. The bar, or " lounge," was as large as the auditorium, 
which it commanded through arches ; and Bignell's suc- 
cessor, Sam Adams, cultivated this side of the house as 
carefully as he did the stage performances. Adams was a 
pleasant, gentlemanly man, who claimed, I believe, a county 
family, much liked by men who gathered round him, and 
bought seas of champagne, the only drink he personally 
encouraged. But the place never prospered. Adams woiald 
passionately indicate a tablet let into the wall, in memoriam 
of the Argyll Rooms, which he declared to be a curse on his 
enterprise. Dimng its career as a music hall, the Trocadero 
enjoyed a spell of popularity, when Charles Cobom sang 
Two Lovely Black Eyes, a parody on a sentimental song of 

123 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

American origin. Sweet Nelly's Blue Eyes. It drew the town 
as nothing had done, probably, since Ross sang Sam Hall at 
the Cider Cellars. But Cobom was unfortunate in having a 
stale contract, and his salary at the time was no more than 
ten pounds a week. He was allowed to duplicate at the 
London Pavilion, but even then did not get his deserts, 
or, at any rate, what would now be his market price. It was 
at the Trocadero, too, that R. G. Knowles made his first 
hit in town. 

For a time after the suppression of the Argyll Rooms 
London languished, no doubt, for the opportunity of late 
dancing and drinking. An attempt to supply the deficiency 
was made with the Lotos Gub in Regent Street, founded by 
one Russell, whose success in organising such institutions had 
earned him the name of King of Clubs Russell. To do him 
justice, he maintained a level of respectability which has 
never been salubrious to " mixed " clubs, as his last venture, 
the Prince of Wales's, ensuing to the Lyric Club, in Coventry 
Street, proved once more. The Lyric Club was maintained 
at the outset by that lifelong and lavish patron of the stage, 
Lord Londesborough. An immediate follower of the Lotos 
Club was the New Club, ensuing to the Falstaff Club, on the 
premises of Evans's song-and-supper rooms, Covent Garden. 
Its secretary was Colonel Fred Wellesley, who married Kate 
Vaughan, and the Gaiety was well represented in the member- 
ship. But the New Club was dull, and died. Its room is 
filled by the National Sportiag Club. 

No charge of dullness could be brought against the Corin- 
thian Club, oft St James's Square, inspired by John HoUings- 
head. It endured for years, and succumbed, I believe, long 
after HoUingshead's departure, to trouble in respect of card- 

124 




EvANs's Music Hall 



NIGHT CLUBS 

playing. A certain pretence of daytime club life was main- 
tained — ^lunches and dinners. But supper and dancing were 
the mainstay of the club, which for a long time was a popular 
resort of the smarter set in Bohemia. The famous chef, 
" featxired," as the Americans say, in the prospectus of the 
original Corinthian Club, guaranteed a choice of twenty-five 
cocktails, seventeen soups and thirty-three entrees. The 
moral code of the club was, let us say, a limited polyandry. 
In this respect it ranked higher than its hundred imitators, 
which sprang up in all directions in the nineties. 

Sam Lewis the money-lender, who began life as a traveller 
in jewellery, chiefly working military depots, and died a multi- 
millionaire, was fond of the Corinthian. A yoimg barrister, 
now of importance, who had halted on the threshold of his 
career to dissipate a small fortune on the Stock Exchange, 
said to him one night : "I wonder if you would like to lend 
me a himdred pounds, Mr Lewis." "I should, my lad," 
said Sam, " but it 'ud be no kindness to you. I suppose 
your frills will go up if I was to offer you a tenner for luck ? " 

One of the keenest rivals of the Corinthian Gub was the 
Gardenia, on the east side of Leicester Square. This was 
directed at one time by the Brothers Bohee, two coloured 
singers and dancers who had great charm. They mostly 
dressed in smart white hnen suits, played the banjo to ad- 
miration and effectively sang such songs as A Boy's Best 
Friend is his Mother. London, following the lead of the 
Prince of Wales, developed for the Bohees that infatuation 
which is the perplexity, extending to disgust, of Americans ; 
and the black fellows were ruined. 

During its career the Gardenia Gub was the scraie of a 
performance deemed deliciously improper in those days — ere 

125 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

" classical " dancing had arrived. La Goulue was at that 
time one of many dancers whom Paris was supposed to admire 
— ^though the admiration was chiefly supplied by vulgar 
excursionists. An^Tvay, La Goulue and three high-kicking 
damsels were imported to Leicester Square, and the members 
of the Gardenia Club were accorded the opportunity of 
witnessing their disgusting and wholly indescribable antics. 

Elsewhere in London were innumerable night clubs — ^the 
Waterloo, the Palm, the Alsatian, the Thalia, the Nell 
Gwynne, the Supper Club (longest lived of all). In one case 
the proprietor was the widower of one of the greatest stars 
that ever shone in the comic opera firmament. Another was 
run by the brother of a distinguished actor-manager. There 
would be a farcical form of election to membership, a 
" committee " and a subscription. But mostly all rules were 
disregarded. Any patron of apparent promise was elected 
on the doormat, and so the clubs fell an easy prey to the police. 
They would be raided as gambling hells or as the resort of 
loose women, and proof of all their iniquities was easy. 

During the daytime these clubs were the abomination of 
desolation. Indeed they continued in this mood till mid- 
night. Then the visitor must present himself at a heavy door 
in an ill-lighted street. He would be furtively eyed through 
a wicket, perhaps admitted cautiously by a liveried porter, 
who was usually a retired prize-fighter. An ante-room had 
to be crossed, and a second door negotiated. Then the in- 
truder reached a hall of dazzling light, a large room where 
dancing was " indulged in," as the reporters say, to the 
strains of a string band eked out by a piano. A supper-room 
never acquired much importance, but at several bars vile 
drink would be dispensed at a many-per-cent. profit. 

126 




Serjeant Ballantine 



NIGHT CLUBS 

A vast number of well-known people used to affect the 
night clubs — ^theatrical folk, literary folk, legal luminaries, 
of course with the object of studying himian nature. An 
eminent K.C. of to-day was seldom missing from the old 
Corinthian Qub — ^and the memory certainly made him a 
little tender in his cross-examination, in a recent case, of 
a fellow viveur with whom fortune had not dealt so gently. 
It would never have done for him to risk such a retort as 
Sergeant Ballantyne got. " And pray, sir " (said the famous 
bully), "may I ask what you, an English public man, 
were doing at the Moulin Rouge on a Simday night." 
" Well, Sergeant, pretty much the same thing as you were 
doing behind the scenes at the Alhambra on Saturday night." 
Ballantyne was, of course, one of the mainstays of the 
Alhambra in his day. 

Some years ago the police swept away the night clubs with 
a ruthless hand. It may be their scandal reached a limit 
when a well-known actress was knocked down, in the Nell 
Gwynne Club, Long Acre, by a race-horse owner of eccentric 
habits, and kicked, as it might be in Billingsgate. Bow 
Street was invoked, but a now well-known actor-manager 
intervened, the summons was withdrawn, the world at large 
disappointed of a huge sensation, and a matter of ten 
thousand pounds changed hands. 

There has lately been a flourishing recrudescence of night 
clubs, though the war checked their growth. What their 
potentialities are may be gathered from the fact that the 
proprietor of one, who was not notorious for his wealth, made 
nearly fifty thousand pounds in a twelvemonth. 



127 



CHAPTER XVIII 

DEAD-HEADS AND CLAQXJERS 

How Theatres are packed — Some Subterfuges of Seat-beggars — 
Henry Irving and the Bailiff — The Chorus that sang too soon 
— M. Quelquechose, Organiser of Success 

ONE of our most experienced- managers assured 
me that if it were possible to establish a kind of 
clearing-house for seat-beggars — ^that is, to give all 
applicants with some sort of a credential, real or imagined, 
an " order " for a particular house periodically reserved 
for their delectation — ^it would be possible to pack a good- 
sized theatre nightly with these play-loving paupers — ^from 
fifteen hundred to two thousand. This plan might relieve 
prosperous theatres, but it certainly would not satisfy the 
" dead-head," nor would it suppress him. Nothing will do 
that. He is the most fastidious in selection, the most critical, 
the least satisfied of playgoers. For him, the best is seldom 
good enough, and to offer him other than he particularly 
demands is to court reproach. Moreover, it would not suit 
the theatres, on all occasions, to avail themselves of such a 
clearing-house. The dead-head has his uses, and there is 
no manager, say what he will, who is wholly independent 
of him. 

Was it Buckstone, or was it Ben Webster, to whom a 
brother manager complained that he could not lure the public 
to his theatre, even with free seats ? Said Webster, or it 

iz8 



DEAD-HEADS AND CLAQUERS 

may have been Buckstone, "Have you tried 'em with 
a drink ? " The truth is, every empty seat is injurious to 
the morale of a theatre. A crowded house is an incompar- 
ably effective advertisement, and heartens the performers. 
Now, every theatrical manager will tell you that the play 
which appeals to every class of the community has yet to be 
written. The stalls are often packed while the less expensive 
seats drag ; or pit, circles and gallery will, in their thousands, 
gaze across an empty stretch of stalls. So every theatrical 
manager has at one time or another seats for distribution at 
no loss to himself, and, whatever his pretence, assviredly does 
distribute them according to his discretion, or to such discre- 
tion as he thinks he has. And a wisely bestowed seat blesses 
him who gives just as much as it blesses hioa who takes. 

As to whom a manager might, or does, or should present 
seats — ^that is his affair entirely. To say that a joumaUst, or 
any other, has a " right " of admission to a theatre is pre- 
posterous nonsense. No right exists. A theatre is a place 
of business ; it is for its manager to decide how he will conduct 
it. It has been found mutually convenient for the theatres 
to issue free seats, or " invitations " for first performances to 
the representatives of newspapers, who are sometimes twitted 
with getting their amusement for nothing. That assumes, 
of course, amusement ! I venture to assert that any space, 
in any newspaper, filled with any-tempered remark about a 
theatre, is of a value as mere " publicity " at least equal to 
the price of the seat. 

It is the custom of the West End theatres to issue from 
seventy to a hundred seats to the newspapers for a first night. 
To an e3q)ert the " second seat " affords interesting study. 
Most of the regular writers about the stage have a subsidiary 

I 129 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

job — a daily and perhaps also a weekly paper, an evening 
paper and perhaps also a provincial paper. This second seat 
is filled by the critic's wife, or his cousin, or his confidential 
secretary, or even an obliging tradesman. To the theatre 
manager, who feels that he is entertaining a guest whom he 
did not select, the " second seat " is a source of rage and irri- 
tation — ^to the disinterested, of infinitely amusing surmise. 

It is a popular error to suppose that the familiar celebrities 
making up a London first night are all dead-heads. There 
are quite a number of important persons well known to be so 
deeply interested in the theatre as to wish to attend most 
first performances and to pay for their seats. For them at 
the leading theatres seats are wont to be reserved till the 
option is taken up or declined. Of course every manager 
reserves a right of hospitality to his intimate friends. And 
the old hand could mostly identify the house if he glanced 
at the stalls through a hole in an unknown curtain. Tree's 
first nights differ from Irving's of old ; the Haymarket differs 
from the St James's. One manager has a kindly, character- 
istic habit of making his second row of stalls a pageant of 
superannuated sweethearts. Another flaunts his dubious 
city friendships. Elsewhere one sees Freemasonry pre- 
dominant, or sport, or the vestry. 

But there is still the eternal mendicant. He is often an 
actor — ^and some managers most especially resent his im- 
portunities, while others find a particular pleasure in giving 
to a " worn and weary brother." Sad to relate, he is mostly 
ungrateful and hypercritical. Once, with a friend I had 
adjourned to the buffet. " Well ? " I said interrogatively. 
" I think," was the response, " he is the worst Hamlet I 
ever saw." The dismal face, unmistakably of an old actor, 

130 



DEAD-HEADS AND CLAQUERS 

was thrust between us. " Young gentlemen," said he, 
" forgive the intrusion, but may I pay for your drinks ? " 

When the brothers Kiralfy worked in amity, a seat-seeker 
was referred to Bolossy, who inspected his card, and said : 
" Yes ! yes ! You got to see my brother ! " walking on- 
ward to other business. Three times within two hours the 
patient dead-head repeated the process, venturing at last 
to say : " WiU your brother be long, sir ? " " My brother 
is in New York," said the imperturbable Bolossy. 

An old actor accosted Augustus Harris in the vestibule of 
Drury Lane. ' ' And what can I do for you ? ' ' said the great man. 
" I thought you might find me two stalls," the visitor 
proceeded. The showman instinct rose in Harris. 

" Two stalls ! You might just as well ask me for a guinea 
to-night." 

" And I know the time when that would have given you 
a bit of trouble, Gus," was the irrepressible retort of old 
Mendship. Harris capitulated, like the good fellow he was. 

During the long run of Charley's Aunt at the Globe, a 
member of the company received a letter begging his kindly 
offices for two seats. " My name may not be familiar to you ' ' 
(said the applicant), " but I venture to remind you that during 
a long residence in Birmingham I had the distinguished 
honour of cutting your late revered father's corns." 

Once a play was in progress at the Vaudeville, which had 
not appealed greatly to the public. There walked into the 
vestibule, somewhat unsteadily, a smartly dressed man, who 
preferred to the acting manager a request for a seat. Eager 
for any excuse to fill a stall with so presentable a person, the 
official began to interrogate his visitor. Was he a journalist ? 
Had he a friend in the company ? Was he directly or 

131 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

indirectly concerned with the stage — ^in short, could he give 
any reason whatsoever why he should be accorded a free seat ? 

" Dear old chap," came the unsteady reply, " look at 
the rain." 

Hardly less impudent was the gentleman in evening dress, 
accompanied by a lady, who handed a card to a West End 
acting manager with the remark that he had been given to 
imderstand that it would procure him two seats. 

" I'm afraid you've been fooled," was the reply. " I 
don't know the gentleman." 

" But I've brought this lady out. I — ^I — ^well, it isn't 
convenient for me to pay." 

" Sorry I can't help you," said the manager. 

" Well — ^you look a sportsman, w-wont you give me your 
card to some other Johnny ? " said the imabashed roimder. 

Sir Henry Irving laughed at this story more heartily than 
most folk to whom I have told it : a well-known literary 
man received an acutely professional visit from two bailiffs 
of the Qerkenwell County Court, with the elder of whom he 
had to return to Dimcan Terrace, while the younger remained 
in possession. The business proved capable of speedy ar- 
rangement. The bailiff, striking a note of sympathy with 
his charge, spent three hours in the capacity of a gossiping 
guide to theatrical Islington. He remembered Grimaldi, 
and still wept for Phelps. When the parting came the 
man of letters tried to slip half-a-sovereign into the hand of 
his quaint friend. It was sternly refused. Would he accept 
no memorial of that morning ? Yes — ^he would like two 
seats for the theatre. " For anywheres, guv'nor — ^always 
exceptin' the Lyceum. I could never stomach 'im." 

At the Savage Club one night Henry Pettitt suggested an 



DEAD-HEADS AND CLAQUERS 

expedition to the old Olympic, where, he had heard, an un- 
authorised performance of one of his plays was in progresSi 
As we approached the theatre a friendly person on the 
pavement sUpped two orders for the pit into our hands. 
Alas ! the pit was declared to be full. But we could get 
"transfers" to the upper circle for eighteenpence each. 
Pettitt did not think he cared for the upper circle. He 
mischievously inspected, and declined, seats at various rates 
of " transfer," and finally asked for a rebate, in respect of 
his pit orders, of two shillings on a two-guinea box. The 
box-office keeper saw the transaction acquiring a magnitude 
beyond his powers, and sent for the manager. 

" Why, Mr Pettitt," said that functionary, recognising 
his visitor with some distress, " what can I do for you, sir ? ' 

" Take my piece off, and be damned to you for a rogue," 
said the angry dramatist. 

Some orders have a definite cash value. There used to 
be, and still may be, a barber's shop in Drury Lane where 
"orders" purchased from their original recipients were 
regularly on sale — ^the prices current, of half-guinea stalls, 
ranging from eighteenpence to five shillings, was an interest- 
ing appraisement of the popularity of a "popular success." 

Organised opposition is a phrase often in the mouth of 
the disappointed impresario. But what about organised 
applause ? On a greater or a lesser scale, it is not uncommon. 
An audience is easily led, and a single cheer will often swell 
to a chorus. The temptation to ensure that single cheer is 
great, and I do not know that one can be too hard on the 
friend of the debutant who succmnbs. 

I well recall a Gaiety first night, when a charming girl 
tuid to sing a seductive song with a swinging chorus. Twenty 

133 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

gallery boys had been trained to pick it up. Alas ! they 
did not wait to hear the singer, but roared their verse lustily 
the moment the orchestra gave the note. The audience, 
at first bewildered, quickly appreciated the situation and 
shouted with laughter. 

All this is innocent enough; but for many years there 
flourished around Leicester Square a gang of claquers capable 
of infamous excesses. Their leader was well known — ^I 
have often sat near him in the cafes in the neighbourhood. 
He made no secret of his trade, had printed cards, " M. Quel- 
quechose : organiser of success," and he was even recognised 
by some managements. Foreign artists familiar with the 
institution at home frankly accepted it here. I don't know 
that much harm was done by the procuration of a little 
applause. But one step farther led the jealous performer to 
procure the reverse of applause for a rival — and so we once had 
rioting long continued at the Alhambra, which the police could 
not quell, but which the humour of a comedian did. One 
night when the accustomed demonstration began he wearily 
composed himself for sleep at the foot of a proscenium pillar 
till the noise should cease. There was a shout of laughter, 
and no more demonstration. Meanwhile, in abortive pro- 
ceedings at Marlborough Street, both the distinguished 
artists involved admitted the employment of the claquers. 

Worst feature of the claque system : when the ruffians who 
battened on it were refused employment they grew insolent 
and backed their blackmailing demandswith threats and even 
with assault. It is not so long since the directorate of one of 
the great variety houses adjacent to Leicester Square circu- 
lated, officially, the confident statement that it had at length 
completely eradicated the scandal of the claque ! I wonder ! 

134 



CHAPTER XIX 

PRINCES AND PALACES 

The " Royal Command " to the Music HaU— A Noble " Chairman " 
— King Edward a Prisoner — Dan Leno at Court — A Terrible 
Tragedy 

WHEN, in 1912, the King and Queen paid a formal 
visit to the Palace Theatre, and thrilled the 
music hall profession with tardy "recognition,'' 
the p^recedent of Mr Justice Coleridge, in demanding an official 
description of Connie Gilchrist, was carefully followed. It 
was assumed that their Majesties would arrive at the Palace 
Theatre with a childlike ignorance of the music hall and its 
professors, and decided that no song or smirk must nm the 
risk of offence. This sedulous process of sterilisation had a 
curious sequel. Gteorge Robey was the outstanding success 
of the show. 

But King George, like his father and his uncles, had a 
pretty fair knowledge of the West End music halls, notably 
of the Alhambra, the Empire and the London Pavilion — 
acquired, of course, imoffieially. Queen Alexandra had 
visited the Empire and the Alhambra — ^there were no fewer 
than nineteen royal visits to the last-named house during 
the run of Sir Arthur Sullivan's ballet. In the old days 
of the Aquarium, Queen Alexandra "running in," as she 
often did, with her children, must have acquired a 
certain intimacy with the characteristics of the modem 

135 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

music hall. Genee, she made several opportunities of 
seeing; and now that the ice is broken, often visits the 
London Coliseum, especially when there is a ballet dancer 
of distinction there. 

Queen Victoria's patronage was once ciuiously obtained 
for a music hall performance. Even while, in the long days 
of her mourning, she averted her face from the theatre, less 
distinguished entertainments often found their way to her 
presence on the intercession of her grandchildren — ^Bernard 
and Vestris's Minstrels, Wombwell's Wild Beast Show, 
Hengler's and Sanger's circuses and Buffalo Bill were well- 
accustomed visitors at Court before the theatre and the opera 
came into their own again. But most productive was her 
Majesty's casual patronage of a troupe of bears, wandering 
the coimtry-side in a humble way. They were quickly noted 
by an astute agent, brought to the Oxford Music Hall, and, as 
the " Royal Bears," were the great attraction of the moment. 
Incidentally, they ousted Clarence Holt from his dressiag- 
room, an outrage which " the favourite Hamlet of the 
Crowned Heads of Europe" resented in torrents of 
blasphemy and coarsely hmnorous contrast. 

Some thirty years ago the Prince of Wales created a mild 
sensation by entertaining at dinner, on a Simday evening, 
half-a-dozen actors, none of whom were, in fact, strangers to 
him. And shortly there was more trouble, when it became 
known that " Jolly John " Nash and Arthur Lloyd had been 
summoned to the house of the Earl of Carrington, there, 
under the guidance of William Holland, at the time 
managing the Alhambra, to entertain a party including the 
heir apparent. Nash boldly accosted his host as "Mr 
Chairman," and demanded a "chorus all together" for 

136 



PRINCES AND PALACES 

the song in which at the time he was particularly 
popular ; 

" Hey ! hi ! here, stop ! Waiter, waiter I Fizz ! Pop ! 
I'm Racketty Jack, no money I lack 
And I'm the boy for a spree.'-' 

"We continued," wrote Mr Nash, in an account of his 
experience, " to sing alternately, Arthur Lloyd and myself, 
until about four in the morning, and left with an assurance 
that we had much pleased his lordship and his princely 
guest." Lloyd was summoned to a second party ; and this 
time asked to bring Alfred Vance. 

King Edward's first official visit to a music hall was 
probably to the London Coliseum, not then, indeed, a music 
haU, at the outset of its vicissitudinous career, now set in a 
groove of prosperity. A wonderful box had been contrived — 
the proudest detail of Mr Oswald StoU's tremendous struc- 
ture. The illustrious guest was to step from his carriage into 
a waiting apartment, to touch a button, and to travel 
quickly, almost imperceptibly, to his appointed seat. The 
box worked d, velours, till the King entered it. Then it stuck 
obstinately. His Majesty was not wont to experience such 
accidents patiently, but for once was in a fine humour when 
he was released from his prison. " Donald, Donald — ' Eh ! 
What, what, what ? ' " he said to the unhappy acting manager, 
quoting a song which Marie Lloyd was singing at the time. 
And he proceeded to hope that the stage machinery, of which 
he had heard so much, would not play similar tricks with the 
anxious impresario. 

Toward Christmas, 1901, the variety stage got its first 
important recognition — Dan Leno was summoned to 

137 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Sandringham, where he gave a hberal selection from his 
repertoire before a family party. 

The suggestion came from George Ashton, who for many 
years personally managed King Edward's playgoing, and 
whose deepest impression is one of his Majesty's anxiety 
to let his entertainers know that their efforts had been 
appreciated. "I remember," Mr Ashton recalled the other 
day, " an occasion on which the King proposed a visit to the 
Haymarket, where Arthur Cecil was playing different parts 
in some play, on alternate evenings. The King had informed 
himself of the fact that Cecil preferred himself greatly in one 
part, and asked that care be taken that a night on which 
Mr Cecil could feel at his best should be selected." The 
Sandringham entertainment to which reference is made was 
the first sanctioned by the King after his accession to the 
throne ; and it was Mr Ashton who suggested that the 
occasion might fitly be chosen for a specific recognition of 
the variety stage, toward which King Edward had always 
had a kindly disposition ; and in that spirit Leno was in- 
cluded. The little man was possessed by nervousness, but 
acquitted himself bravely, and was quite himself when he 
reached London again. 

He completely disregarded the rule of reticence hitherto 
sternly imposed on the entertainers of royalty ! The news- 
papers were filled with serio-comic stories of Dan's adventures 
— ^how he joked the footman, how he forgot the important 
half of his dress suit, and had to improvise, how he wandered 
into the shrubbery to cool down before supper, and was 
arrested by a detective, and how much he owed, in his 
nervous elation, to " King Edward's usual kindness and 
tact." 

138 



PRINCES AND PALACES 

A siege of the London Pavilion was the immediate result. 
For days there was a queue at the box-office, made up for the 
most part of people who had never before visited a music 
hall. But what was good enough for the King was good 
enough for them. And the coffers of the Pavilion over- 
flowed. 

This was but three years before Leno's death ; and there 
is no doubt the poor little man was already suffering from 
the malady which killed him. He became terribly excited ; 
and indulged in the wildest dreams of honours that might 
be conferred. But saner folk in music hall land have 
suffered from that malady ! 

He thought that at least the office of the King's Jester 
should be revived. Apropos, it has been in abeyance since 
Stuart times, though W. F. Wallet, a circus clown, habitually 
used it. A discreet official to whom Leno personally 
mooted the question suggested that he should set out his 
views in writing ; but he never did so. As the clouds 
settled over his intellect, he would confer knighthood on all 
and sundry. Later, the opportunity of entertaining the 
Court was accorded to Mr Harry Lauder and Mr Bransby 
Williams. 

In the spring of 1911 it was made known that King George 
and his Queen proposed to honour a performance by selected 
music hall artists. The late Sir Edward Moss was mainly 
responsible, and the intention was that the Empire, Edin- 
burgh, should be the scene of the function, the Court being 
in that neighbourhood. This apparent agreement with the 
Kiag's convenience had the further effect of preventing any 
jealous competition of London halls. The arrangements for 
the command performance were well on their way when one 

139 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

of the most terrible tragedies in the history of popular 
entertainment occurred. The apparatus for illuminating 
the performance of an American conjurer named Lafayette 
miscarried. The theatre was burned to the ground. There 
was a terrible loss of life, Lafayette himself perishing. And 
in sight of this holocaust all thought of the Command 
Performance was abandoned. 

We shall never get the inner history of the Command 
Performance of 1912 — a fierce contortion of personal ambi- 
tion, a bitter antagonism of jealousies, a triumph for nobody 
in particular. Moss was on his deathbed when it was 
announced that the question of a Conunand Performance had 
been revived ; that it would take place in London, and at 
the Palace Theatre. With the choice of the Palace there was 
no great quarrel — ^none, on the part of the public. It proved 
that the turn of the only other house seriously concerned 
in a competition was to come. But the programme-^who 
was to be included ? and by whom ? The diificulties of the 
committee were greater than the layman can imagine. It 
was not a question, merely, of scheduling the fifteen or twenty 
most distinguished artists. A programme must " balance." 
A procession of singers would have been stupid. The risk 
of monotony, of stage weights — all these technical matters 
had to be considered. 

Soon it was whispered about that the artist most char- 
acteristic of the modem variety stage was to be excluded 
from the chosen company ; and in some quarters there was 
expectation of a poignant counterblast. But it never came. 
When at last the list was made public, its dominant spirit 
was at once apparent. In the event, there was a picturesque 
crowd, a rather dull performance which could not, by the 

140 



PRINCES AND PALACES 

wildest stretch of imagination, be called typical of the 
English music hall, but, above all, there was another 
brilliantly contrived world-wide and sensational advertise- 
ment for the Palace Theatre. 

Not a " Command " performance, but one of rare interest 
and distinction, was given at the London Coliseiun in the 
autumn of 1913. It was nominally on the incentive of Sarah 
Bernhardt, in aid of the Charing Cross Hospital and the 
French hospital ; and, in its association of great dramatic 
artists as Ellen Terry, great lyric artists as Madame Kirkby 
Lunn, three musical knights, and Yvette Guilbert, recorded 
the last phase of the music hall. But it contrived to assemble 
not less than a dozen typical low comedians, some of them 
with tinted noses. They should have chanted The Brook. 



141 



CHAPTER XX 

MUSIC HALL AGENCY 

Hugh Jay Didcott — His Extravagance — Where Celebrities were 
discovered — Many Marriages — The Quarrels of Artists and 
Managers 

I HAVE never chosen my friends for their virtues ; and 
so I still preserve of Hugh Jay Didcott a memory more 
tender than of many who have left these latitudes. 
" You know the best of me, and the worst of me," he once 
said. The retort was not to be repressed ; nor was it 
resented : " And they're both all right, Diddy ! " 

Let the worst rest, now ! It has been volubly recorded. 
The secret of Didcott's life was a passion for spending money. 
He described it as an incurable disease. I have never 
encountered such reckless extravagance — to the most trivial 
detail of personal expenditure. I have known him, penni- 
less, borrow a five-pound note, and spend four pounds ten 
shillings on the immediate entertainment of the person who 
had lent it. The only prevision he ever practised was to 
retain a cab fare — ^homeward at night, and inward on the 
morrow. To gratify his mania for squandering money, he 
would procure it by any means ; but, to my observation, the 
most severe critics of his life and character were those most 
deeply indebted to his genius and to his prodigality. 

It would be hard to estimate the direct and indirect 
obligation of the modem music hall, and of individual 

142 



MUSIC HALL AGENCY 

professors thereof, to his prescience and skill. He was an 
incomparably fine judge of every kind of public performance, 
from Fechter's IJamlet to "Mr Mounsey," which was his 
favourite style for incompetence ; a coarse and scathing 
critic — especially of the capacity, and cupidity, of other 
agents. They are, indeed, a strange lot, in their range from 
vulgar probity to prosperous parasitism. In the neighbour- 
hood of 1890 Didcott's business was worth not less than 
ten thousand a year. He died insolvent, though the kindly 
ministration of relatives kept him in luxury, through the 
agonies of cancer, to the last hour of his life. 

He was not the first agent — ^that distinction belongs to 
Ambrose Maynard, whose successor was Didcott's immediate 
predecessor, Charles Roberts. This information is not 
particularly important, but may guarantee one's good faith. 
Didcott certainly endowed music hall agency with style and 
commercial system, and remained throughout his life its 
most picturesque figure. He has taken performers from 
soldiers' sing-songs, from Margate sands, from East End 
music halls, from penny gaffs — I could append great names 
to all these instances, but naturally I refrain. He has be- 
stowed upon these " discoveries " attractive descriptions, 
dressed them presentably, provided them with pocket 
money, selected songs for them and strenuously rehearsed 
them. Of a world-famous serio-comic singer, whom he 
admired prodigiously, his despair was that " one might 

spend a hundred guineas on a gown for the and still 

she wouldn't clean her nails." 

Didcott's training for his career was that he was an 
inveterate man about town ere he was out of his teens. I 
have heard much nonsense talked about his humble origin. 

143 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

He was, in fact, the son of a prosperous furrier, from whom 
he inherited money, soon squandered. His elder brother 
was a wealthy stockbroker. His two nephews were men of 
importance on the Stock Exchange too. A third is an able 
barrister. " Didcott " was impulsively annexed from the sign 
of the railway station, by a passing traveller whose affairs had 
induced perplexity, and who, turning over a new leaf, thought 
well to indite a new name at the top of the page. The earlier 
" Maurice " was also assumed. Never miad the original. 

One never appealed in vain to Didcott for information as 
to the Bohemian life of the sixties, or as to theatrical event. 
He was a glib Shakespearean scholar, well versed in Hebrew 
text and ritual, fluent in French and German, and a smart 
lawyer, especially in respect of the conflicts of debtor and 
creditor. In early days of need he tried several trades. The 
first which concerns us is that of the actor. He played 
Macbeth at Drury Lane, and, I have heard, pretty well. 
Then he became a comic singer. Florence St John was a 
music hall vocalist at that time, and the two, in camaraderie, 
would make one pair of white kid gloves serve them ! Didcott 
had a song with a refrain which an imkind manager whistled 
significantly as he counted four sovereigns into the artist's 
expectant palm at " treasury." It was " Never again ; 
never again ! " This may have ended the career of a comic 
singer ; and so, meant much for agency. 

For twenty years artists begged and intrigued for the 
privilege of describing Didcott as their agent. He paid 
himself generously for his work, but then, it was payment 
largely by results. The performer whose weekly wage had 
been nm up from five pounds to fifty could hardly resist a 
liberal percentage of the large, imhoped-for balance. The 

144 



MUSIC HALL AGENCY 

expenses of such a business, even its legitimate expenses, 
are enonnous. The weekly outgoings from the agent's 
York Road office were swollen by a hundred pensions — ^to 
serious dependents, to casual domesticities, to pensioners 
listed in a spirit of pure benevolence, to barefaced black- 
mailers. 

Some of Didcott's early matrimonial adventures became 
public property. With his right hand he gave to the stage a 
charming actress, who married well, and retired ; with his 
left, the amazing Maud Darrell, who died within a few weeks 
of her father. But few, even of his most intimate associates, 
knew that in 1890 he secretly married a charming lady, an 
accomplished artist, with whom, in spite of divagations, he 
lived in affectionate communion, maintaining a home, which 
changed twenty-one times in twenty-two years (that was one 
of his cherished customs) from one London suburb to another, 
and visiting it pretty regularly for a Sunday dinner which had 
scrupulously preceded him. 

Princely entertaining was a part of his business system. 
Two items, only, of this outlay were a luncheon-table at 
Simpson's, and a dinner-table at Romano's, habitually 
reserved, always filled to their capacity, and entered to the 
large account of the enterprising impresario, whose taste 
in cigars was, incidentally, that of a super-connoisseur, 
but who never drank, save in extreme moderation. 

When the linking up of music halls and the " cornering " 
of artists first began to commend themselves to managers — ^to 
Newson Smith, Sutton, Payne and the really considerable 
men of that day — ^Didcott's voice was influential at the board, 
wise, and certain. When the first whispers of dispute between 
the music hall artists as a body and the music hall managers 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

as a body were heard it was open to the agent to go over to 
the managers, who would have eagerly associated him, and 
his course might have proved to be that of the diplomatist. 
The ideal of agency is to play the part of an honest broker 
between manager and performer. But music hall agents 
have never dealt in the ideal. Some>^ cannot spell the word, 
more cannot understand it, and most cultivate a Teutonic 
materialism. 

At any rate, Didcott discarded the managers, and called a 
meeting of the performers. A policy of cohesion was agreed 
upon. It was the cohesion of a fine, dry, silver sand. The 
unhappy agent, who may have been sincere in his adherence 
to the then weaker side, or who may have desired to hunt with 
the hounds and run with the hare, was left friendless, on either 
side, and led a troubled, improfitable life to its end. But he 
stood erect, invincibly resourceful, gay, sarcastic, a careful 
and well-restrained viveur — ^the most exigeant customer at 
Shipwright's, an indifferent player at billiards, more efficient 
at poker, a lively, instructive companion — a man the mention 
of whose name still always sounds the siunmons of apologetic 
loyalty ; but whose memory can always command the tears 
of one friend, imforgetting. 



146 



CHAPTER! XXI 

counterfeitTtresentments 



it. 



stories of Stage Caricature — Oscar WUde in Comedy and Opera 
— ^The " darned mounseer " — Irving and his Imitators — The 
Sensitive Sultan 

WHEN Dr Johnson heard that Foote proposed to 
caricature him he gripped his cane and briefly 
stated the course he would take in such an event. 
He is understood to have had no further provocation. The 
cane should properly take the form of the Lord Chamberlain, 
who has been brought into use on many occasions by persons 
of importance, aggrieved by coimterfeit presentments. 

It is probable that the name of Mr Ayrton would long ago 
have been forgotten did it not survive in connection with an 
historic instance of stage caricature. In Happy Land — of 
which, it being a burlesque of his own Wicked World, W. S. 
Gilbert was part author — ^produced at the Court Theatre in 
1873, there was a wild dance by three members of the Govern- 
ment, Mr Gladstone, Mr Robert Lane and Mr Ayrton, the for- 
gotten Commissioner of Works, which caused a terrible to-do. 

Having begun thus early, Gilbert may be said to have 
become an habitual offender. One of his biographers speaks 
of the " aesthetic craze " as having been " killed " by 
Patience. Bunthome was at any rate clearly meant for Oscar 
Wilde, who was always a convenient mark for the satirist. 
He made his theatrical debut in Where's the Cai, at the 

147 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Criterion. His representative, as Scott Ramsey, was then Sir 
Herbert Tree, destined to be caricatured himself ad nauseam. 
Wilde appeared again as Lambert Streyke in The Colonel, 
and again in The Charlatan at the Haymarket — written, by 
the way, around Home, the spiritualist. 

Gilbert's very obvious attack on the Kaiser in the dancing 
hussar episode introduced to The Grand Duke passed without 
remark. But his Mikado caused diplomatic exchanges — 
after a respectable career of thirty years on the stage ! Mrs 
D'Oyly Carte contemplated a revival of the opera about the 
time of Prince Fushima's visit to this country, but she received 
an imperative hint to abandon the revival, and shortly an 
official order was promulgated that during the visit of his 
Japanese Highness not a note of the music of The Mikado 
should offend his ear. 

In an earlier instance, France was called to arms in respect 
of Gilbert's ribaldry ; and it is said that twenty brave officers 
offered to " meet " him. This was apropros to a phrase, 
" the darned mounseer," in Ruddigore. Really, Gilbert meant 
to satirise our insular contempt for foreigners, but the London 
correspondent of The Figaro construed the verses otherwise, 
and telegraphed them to his paper with angry comment. 
Poor M. Johnson ! In spite of his name he was exceedingly 
French. He lived here forty years, but never imderstood 
us, or our language, though he made many friends, being an 
amiable old creature. To " see ourselves as others see us " 
one had but to read the contributions of M. Johnson to 
The Figaro. He took the deepest interest in Guilbert's first 
visit to London, and it may be his exertions hastened his 
death, which took place during the course of her engagement 
at the Empire. 

148 



COUNTERFEIT PRESENTMENTS 

Eastern potentates have always been super-sensitive. In 
an old-time Strand burlesque, by Sir Frank Bumand, called 
Kissi-Kissi, Henry Corri, one of a large, musical family, 
now represented by the redoubtable referee of the National 
Sporting Club fights, presented a faithful likeness of the 
Shah, with the curious adornment of a necklace of pawn 
tickets. There was an immediate remonstrance, to which 
the management opposed the explanation that Mr Corri 
reaUy couldn't help himself. He was natiu-ally so dark, and 
habitually wore a moustache. What he did not habitually 
wear was a pair of gold-rimmed spectacles, a turban, and so 
forth. Corri is known, in fact, to have made a careful and 
intimate study of the Shah. The management promised to 
tone down the picture, but went no further than to introduce 
to the stage a bucket labelled " Whitewash for Corri." Ap- 
parently the Lord Chamberlain's office was content to have 
given Kissi-Kissi a bold advertisement, as in the case of 
Vert-Vert at the St James's Theatre. The dresses of a ballet 
having been adversely criticised — ^it was, in fact, the can- 
can, which was denoimced in Vanity Fair and led to a libel 
action, which the paper won — ^the late Richard Mansell 
demurely asked for a suggestion as to their alteration ; 
and, having received a word of advice, announced that 
the ballet would henceforth be danced in costumes designed 
by the Lord Chamberlain. His indifference to authority 
was eventually punished by his banishment from London, 
as a responsible manager, at any rate, for a term of many 
years. 

Another burlesque, at the Gaiety, provoked the wrath of 
another sunburnt sovereign. In Don Juan there was a 
suggestion of a Grand Vizier on a round of the town. Quickly, 

149 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

George Edwardes was brought to book, and the character 
was modified out of all likeness to its original. Perhaps the 
revision of the play robbed it of its charm. Certain it is 
that the life of Don Juan, in which Cissie Loftus made her 
stage debut as the sweetest Haidee, was short ; and Mr 
Edwardes chose this moment for the parting of the ways. 
Modem musical comedy replaced the form of burlesque 
which Hollingshead quaintly associated with a " sacred 
lamp." A second time the Sublime Porte was concerned 
with a piece of much popularity in the provinces called 
Secrets of the Harem. The proprietor met the case by 
simply reducing the title to Secrets. 

George Edwardes was called over the coals again in 
respect of " Owen Hall's " original book of The Gaiety 
Girl. The censor objected to many lines, and to the de- 
scription of a judge as Mr Justice May — ^it was so nearly 
Jeune. A rearrangement was effected at the eleventh hour 
— or later; and the actors forgot to forget. So the first- 
night audience really heard the unexpurgated edition at the 
Prince of Wales's Theatre. 

It was playing with fire to touch even gently on Sir 
George Lewis, but this was done on several occasions, 
notably in Marriage, at the Court Theatre. Arthur 
Roberts was quickly stopped in a caricature of Lord 
Randolph Churchill — I'm a Regular Randy, Pandy Oh. 

Throughout his career Irving was an easy mark for the 
mimic. • Probably Edward Righton set the fashion, with 
a travesty of The Bells, in a burlesque called Christabelle, at 
the Court Theatre, proceeding immediately to " take off " 
Mademoiselle Sara, otherwise "Wiry Sal," the cancan dancer, 
Sal, by the way, was Miss Wright, an original member of 

150 



COUNTERFEIT PRESENTMENTS 

Colonna's troupe, who became, " on her own," the town 
toast. In Richelieu Redressed, produced at the Olympic on 
the eve of a General Election in 1873, and declaring that " In 
the great lexicon of politics there's no such word as truth," 
Righton again attacked Irving, and so it went on to the day 
of the great actor's death — ^then still continued. Irving 
detested mimicry, and is imderstood to have invoked the aid 
of authority to suppress it in the case, again, of Fred Leslie 
and Ruy Bias. There was an audacious pas de qvMre, with 
Ben Nathan as Toole, Fred Storey as Edward Terry and 
Charles Danby as Wilson Barrett. 

Some men have taken caricature as a compliment. In- 
credible as it may seem, a well-known city man was delighted 
to be identified with the philandering old fool, Lionel Roper, 
in The Mind the Paint Girl, and used to make up parties 
of his friends to contemplate his degradation. Whether Sir 
Arthur Pinero or Mr Dion Boucicault was really guilty of 
the photography, deponent sayeth not. The old clergyman, 
a friend of the Hawtrey fanaily, caricatured in The Private 
Secretary, never missed a chance of seeing the Reverend 
Robert Spalding. 

In the Adelphi melodrama, London Day by Day, one 
recalls Lord Ailesbury; in later Drury Lane dramas the 
Duchess of Montrose, Sam Lewis the money-lender, Carlton 
Blythe, a once well-known man about town, the Duke 
of Beaufort, and Marie Lloyd — ^who was first asked to 
impersonate herself. 

That what are called " character studies " often have 
originals, deliberately chosen, or imconsciously, is certain. 
Edward Terry was once asked by a barrister friend to come 
over to the Law Courts and look at Dick Phenyl, a derelict 

151 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

who was believed by his colleagues to have provided the 
actor with his original. Terry protested his ignorance, just 
as he assured me that he was ignorant of the likeness of his 
Egerton Bompas in The Times to a weU-known newspaper 
proprietor. It was dog eating dog when Willie Edouin 
" took off " Augustus Harris in Our Flat, and history re- 
peating itself when, at Chelsea lately, a sketch introducing 
half the Government was suppressed. 

Sir Arthur Pinero has a clever drawing by Frank Lockwood, 
recording and forgiving an accidental likeness to a member 
of his family, I think in The Cabinet Minister. 



152 



CHAPTER XXII 

ONE-HORSE SHOWS 

Some Popular Entertainers — Cheer, Boys, Cheer — "Protean'" 
Artists — ^Henry Irving as a Spiritualist — Frederick Maccabe — 
Death in the Workhouse 

WITH the recent death of Barclay Gammon a 
long line in the succession of " entertainers " 
is broken. Miss Margaret Cooper, the Clapham 
music teacher who took one step to celebrity, may be con- 
sidered, " with a difference. " Mr Gammon curiously recalled 
Comey Grain in appearance, in manner and in method — 
but conunanded ten times his fees. Grain would do a good 
deal for a ten-poimd note, having precautiously made his way 
to his host's in overshoes, with the assistance of a bus. He 
left but a modest fortune, though his death made a void, in 
the affection of the public, as great as his own unwieldy form. 
His mild and trivial humour, his extra-deliberate satire, his 
ingenuous dogmatism, his invariable propriety made up a 
pleasant and even fascinating personality. He would cari- 
cature an old gentleman proposing the toast of the Queen 
at great length, and then, with serious importance, remark, 
as his biographer records, with unsmiling approval : " Would 
it not be just as loyal, and much more satisfactory, if 
chairmen were simply to rise and say : ' I give you the 
toast of the Queen, God bless her.' " 
No doubt Barclay Gammon's frequent engagements at the 

153 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Palace Theatre, for which he got upwards of a hundred pounds 
a week toward the end of his brief career, reacted upon his 
" society " work, increasing the number of his engagements 
and the amoimt of his fees. So, George Grossmith was an 
entertainer on a very modest scale before he went to the Savoy. 
When he became an entertainer again, with the cachet of 
Gilbert and Sullivan, he quickly amassed five and twenty 
thousand pounds. His imkindly boasting of his prosperity 
provoked from Charles Brookfield, who could never make, 
or keep, money, a cruel comment, in the Beefsteak Club : 
"But, George, we don't all look so damned funny in evening 
dress." 

Foote, with his Afternoon Teas, at the Haymarket Theatre, 
was probably the first of the entertainers. The elder 
Mathews seems to have had uncanny skill in rapid and com- 
plete disguises for his characters. Albert Smith deprecated 
what he called the " ducking business " as exemplified in 
Mr William Woodin's Carpet Bag. The artist would " duck " 
behind his table to make the necessary change in his appear- 
ance. Smith's own method in The Ascent of Mont Blanc 
seems to have been preserved for us in Mr R. G. Knowles's 
charmingly illustrated travel lectures. Henry Russell, a 
splendid veteran, was quite a familiar figure in London of 
the eighties, although he was singing Cheer, Boys, Cheer to 
Crimean recruits. Russell composed the music ; the words 
were by Charles Mackay, who adopted Marie Corelli, the 
daughter of an old friend, educating her for a musician ; 
and who also lived, poor and blind, into his seventy-sixth 
year. John Parry was the model of the Grossmiths, the 
Cecils (for Arthur Cecil began his professional career in this 
manner too), the Corney Grains. He enjoyed a tremendous 

154 



ONE-HORSE SHOWS 

vogue, and is discussed by contemporary critics among the 
most important musical and dramatic artists of the day. 
His most famous song was : 

-'- Wanted a governess, fitted to fill 
The post of tuition with competent skill 
In a gentleman's family highly genteel, 
Where 'tis hoped that the lady will try to conceal 
Any fanciful airs or fears she may feel 
In this gentleman's family, highly genteel I "- 

Dickens wrote Village Coqtiettes for Parry and his company. 

Most of the early music hall performers tried the " enter- 
tainment." It enabled them to appeal in Com Exchanges, 
Assembly Rooms, and such like, to audiences that would not 
dream of visiting music halls then. So Cowell, Mackney, 
Vance, Arthur Lloyd, Harry Liston, and even Leyboume 
went on toxu". I have a vivid memory of Clarence Holt, who 
used to do " a night with Shakespeare and Dickens " — Mr 
Bransby Williams's method is somewhat similar. Holt's 
good-night speech ended : 

" Of their immortal plumage may 
The feathers never moult. 
Your kind applause give Shakespeare, Dickens, 
Not forgetting Clarence Holt." 

Vance, one recalls, used to work up a " swell " song with 
the use of many handkerchiefs. Each, as it was lightly 
used, was thrown away. On the last he paused. When he 
opened it, it proved to be the Union Jack — ^no unworthy use 
for that ; roars of applause ! And then, in an anticlimax of 
sordid economy, a page boy would carefully collect the silk 
or linen with which the stage had been recklessly strewn. 

155 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Husband and wife would work together, as Mr and Mrs 
German (as Miss Priscilla Horton she had been an exquisite 
Ariel), Mr and Mrs Howard Paul, Mr and Mrs Harry Clifton. 
Two brothers, the Wardropers, utilised their likeness effect- 
ively; and two sisters, members of the Robertson family, 
whose tag was : 

" Amid your kind applause we now retire. 
Accept the grateful thanks of Annie and Sophia." 

Some little time ago there was an outbreak of so-called 
" Protean " art in the London music halls. I believe its - 
exponents were extremely well paid. Their leader, Fregoli, 
had a good deal of ingenuity and skill. He was an ugly little 
wretch, who, like many Italians, spoke English worse each 
day of his sojourning in our hospitable city. Other Protean 
artists appeared in rapid fashion, till music hall programmes 
became a tiresome procession of gibbering foreigners, who 
leapt from one mask into another, out by this door, in at 
that ; their characters were incompletely drawn, their antics 
unintelligible. 

Men with memories asked : " What has become of Frederick 
Maccabe ? " and the answer proved to be that he was dying 
in Liverpool Workhouse, from which he was rescued. The 
facility with which not less than a dozen men whose name is 
cut deep into the record of popular entertainment during 
the Victorian era foimd this refuge is remarkable. 

Maccabe was a Liverpool boy of Irish origin, whose first 
professional work was to play the piano, on which he had 
painfully acquired proficiency, in sheer love of music, at 
dances and dinners. So he acquired many of the characters 
which he afterwards depicted with such skill. Forty-mile 

156 



ONE-HORSE SHOWS 

walks between engagements were the healthy and not un- 
happy experience of many a yoimg artist in those days. 

In the early sixties Maccabe was a stock actor at Man- 
chester. So was Henry Irving, and the two men, as an out- 
side adventmre, took the local Athenaeum, where they gave an 
entertainment designed to kill, by caricature, the spiritual- 
istic pretensions of the notorious Brothers Davenport. 
Maccabe soon found his mStier as an entertainer. He was a 
skilful ventriloquist, and has left a treatise on the art ; he 
had a useful facility with his pen in literary and musical 
composition, could play many instruments, and would with 
lightning rapidity change from a pompous after-dinner 
speaker to a simpering girl at the piano, from a deplorable 
street-whistler to a gay troubadour, all vivid and con- 
vincing. Each sketch was a polished gem, and he could weave 
four characters into a play as illusory and convincing as 
though it employed four people. To tell Mr R. A. Roberts 
that he comes next in one's estimation to Maccabe is not tq 
pay that brilliant artist a second-class compliment, but to 
confer upon him the highest distinction that seems possible 
now. 



157 



CHAPTER XXIII 

EMPIRE-BUILDING 

The All-Conquering Music Hall — Edward Moss's Boyhood — How a 
Piano was procured — His Vast Fortune, and Early Death 

IN the entertainment of the provinces, the growth in 
popularity of the music hall has effected a complete 
revolution. It has ruined most of the theatres. It has 
killed the travelling circus. It has bereft a thousand Com 
Exchanges, Town Halls, Mechanics Institutes of panoramas, 
prestidigitators, Christy Minstrels — ^having absorbed them 
all. There is now no town so small as to lack its Empire. 
Large cities have a score of variety theatres. 

In 1878 the evolution of the music hall had hardly begun. 
The date is not written on my heart — rather it is cut into 
my back. For at sixteen, just emancipated from a " mortar 
board," and vainly dedicated to the profession of the law, I 
thought I was old enough to visit a Palace of Varieties ; my 
father thought I was still young enough to thrash ! 

Harry Rickards — " Great," of course — had sung of the 
beautiful Cerulea. He sang also of " a virgin, just nineteen 
years old," but her story is not for these pages. Vesta 
Tilley, a celebrity in her teens, also appeared, and a curiously 
versatile Frenchman, M. Trewey, mime, juggler, prestidigi- 
tator, who revisited London some five and twenty years later 
with the first cinematograph pictures. They were rejected 
as a Sunday-school show, of ridiculous pretensions, finally 
taken in at the Polytechnic Institution. Trewey, full of 

158 



EMPIRE-BUILDING 

faith, told me I would live to see the cinema actually repro- 
ducing an event on the stage within forty-eight hours. The 
good fellow said hours — ^not minutes ! 

In the provinces the music hall grew quicker, or at any 
rate more luxuriantly, than in London — ^though at Man- 
chester it encountered terrible opposition, the Nonconformist 
conscience possessing the local Bench. Still, Birmingham, 
Liverpool and Glasgow soon had great pleasure palaces, 
wherein the eventual " magnates " of the music hall world, 
the Stolls, the De Freeces, the Barrasfords, graduated. Paul, 
of Leicester, was a great " character," who gave inunense sums 
to charity. He habitually addressed his audience on Saturday 
night, in laudation of his company. Feeling that he had gone 
a little too far on one occasion, and tended to give the 
artists too high an opinion of their worth, he added, in a 
confidential way : " But I've got a crowd coming on Monday, 
ladies and gentlemen, as can wipe the floor with this lot." 
Oddly enough, the most important, or the most apparent 
influence, came from Edinburgh. 

For years James Moss adventured shows of all kinds, and 
soon he foimd his son, Horace Edward Moss, a useful assistant. 
The boy had a particular aptitude at music, and played the 
piano for a " troupe " which had painful vicissitudes. The 
Franco-German War of 1870-1871 brought about a change 
in the fortunes of the Mosses. They concocted a panorama 
which put them in possession of a little capital. And 
still, they were careful. This advertisement proved most 
attractive to the musical member of the firm : 

" Glenburn Abbey — An old piano by Clementini in tolerably good 
order for its age. Mr MacAUster will give it to any person who will 
take it away." 

159 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

A conveyance, fitting the circumstances, was procured ; 
and the piano went into the Moss stock. Father and son 
entered into possession of the Queen's Rooms, Greenock, and 
transformed them into a music hall. They seemed on the 
way to success when the landlord, enamoured of their ideas, 
resumed possession, by virtue of a faulty lease. The con- 
ventions of melodrama demand that he should fail. He did. 
The Mosses got hold of another hall, this time at Edinburgh. 
It was the Gaiety, but the fact that every student in the 
University affectionately knew it as " Moss's " is a proof that 
it was a success on homely lines. Long after its more active 
director had given Edinburgh an Empire, he retained the hall 
wherein he had laid the foundation of a vast fortune. He 
associated himself with another enterprising impresario in 
the north of England, Richard Thornton, and eventually with 
Oswald StoU, whose methods were probably too individual, 
and who, after a time, withdrew from the coalition. 

Meanwhile Moss had established his enterprise in the 
heart of London. The Hippodrome, off Leicester Square, is 
the base from which upwards of thirty other places of amuse- 
ment are operated, in all parts of the kingdom, employing 
a capital in excess of two million poimds. At fifty-seven, he 
died in harness — ^long weary of work, if the truth must be 
told. His domestic life had more than its share of sorrows. 
Otherwise his career was successful, almost from the outset. 
He had acquired an immense and beautiful estate in Scotland. 
He had accumulated a vast fortime — ^nearly a quarter of a 
million, and procured a title. A pleasure-loving man, there 
is no doubt he had long desired to dissociate himself from 
the business of popular entertainment, and to devote himself 
to country life, and travel. Incidentally, the Hippodrome 

i6o 



EMPIRE-BUILDING 

had been something of a disappointment. The belief that 
the London public was eager for a revival of the circus proved 
to be unfounded. At any rate, it did not wax enthusiastic 
in respect of a circus, plus an Empire ballet, plus an unvary- 
ing water show, plus a variety entertainment. Time seems 
to have solved this problem with the revue. 

None the less, at the time of Mr StoU's severance, the Moss 
Empires were in the doldrums. The shareholders were 
uneasy, but cherished a belief in the foimder of the imder- 
taking. And so, with admirable good nature, he took the 
helm again, and stuck to it, till painful illness seized him, and, 
after no great while, bore him off. Sir Edward Moss was a 
keen man of business. He showed capacity in many enter- 
prises apart from the music hall ; business, no doubt, meant 
to him primarily his own enrichment. But he had 
pleasantry and charm. His was one of those cases in 
which the manners of a gentleman 1^ fallen gracefully 
on a person of himible origin and roughish experience. 



i6i 



CHAPTER XXIV 

NOTE S O E GOLD? 

Failure of the Royal English Opera — Palace Theatre Flotation — Its 
Early Struggles, and Eventual Profits — Living Pictures — And 
one of Charles Morton 

" 'W' "W" E built his soul a lordly pleasure house." With 

I 1 imction the musical critics passed the quotation 

-*- -^ round, when they inspected the Royal English 
Opera House, dominating Seven Dials. It was meant to 
establish English music ; to give London a theatre as nearly 
perfect, from all points of criticism, as might be — in beauty, 
in secure isolation, in equipment. As the late Mr D'Oyly 
Carte, by the inspiration of Madam, was one of the most 
astute men of business in his generation, or any other — ^he 
died worth two hundred and fifty thousand pounds — I doubt 
not the Royal English Opera House also enshrined other 
intentions. 

It opened on 31st January 1891, with Sir Arthur Sullivan's 
opera, Ivanhoe. Artists of rare distinction were engaged, in 
such a number that a different cast might be employed three 
times within the week. Immediately after the one himdred 
and fiftieth performance, Ivanhoe was withdrawn. The Opera 
House had failed in its mission, as regards English music. 
To France, then, for La Basoche, which an enthusiastic 
critic declared to be "the best comic opera ever produced 
in London." It did little better than Ivanhoe. So the 

162 



NOTES— OR GOLD 

hospitality of the theatre was tendored to Sarah Bernhardt 
for a season. 

Poor English Opera House ! In little more than a year 
they were bravely planning to raise a music hall out of the 
debris of its ambitions. For this purpose a limited liability 
company was formed, with the privilege of purchasing the 
theatre, freehold and paraphernalia, for the equivalent of 
two hundred and twenty-five thousand pounds. 

Augustus Harris entered into the scheme with enthusiasm. 
His energy was limitless. Drury Lane was the rock on 
which he built his enterprise ; but it included ItaUan Opera, 
in which, shouting at the chorus in four languages, he found 
his greatest delight ; touring companies, the world over, with 
melodrama, pantomime, grand opera, comic opera ; Olympia. 
And he kept an eye on every detail. Hales, a Covent 
Garden tradesman, specialised in the provision of animals for 
theatrical productions — ^packs of hounds for Cinderella, horses 
for Henry V., bulls for Carmen, sheep for Bo-Peep, and so on. 
Harris was doing a Forty Thieves pantomime, for which he 
needed a donkey. Sedger at the Lyric was doing La Cigale, 
for which he also needed a donkey. Hales had a superior 
and an inferior beast, and juggled with them a little. 
Harris would return from the Continent, his eye all over 
Drury Lane stage in an instant. " Where's that infernal 
Hales " — ^his voice would ring through the theatre — " where's 
that infernal Hales ? Sedger's got my donkey again ! " 

Harris had a deep-rooted belief in his power to run a music 
hall. He had cleared out of the Empjre in a temper. He 
found the notion of resuscitating the Palace fascinating. 
Perhaps there was a touch of malicious pleasure in knocking 
the bottom out of the Royal English Opera House. He 

163 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

shaped a programme for the reopening, on 11th December 
1892, which he supposed would revolutionise variety. It 
included an Oriental ballet. The Sleeker Awakened, which was 
actually the induction to The Taming of the Shrew, a little 
tragedy called The Round Tower and an extravaganza by 
Cecil Raleigh and " Jimmie " Glover, called London to Paris. 
There were a few music hall artists ; but the effect of the 
policy of other halls, in cornering popular favourites, was felt 
keenly. It was a long time ere the Palace directorate awoke 
to the fact that, to succeed, it must discover and exploit 
interesting personalities. 

Then the first manager of the Palace was oddly out of 
place. Harris was doubtless anxious to pay a debt of old 
friendship to a man who had done fine work in his time and 
failed. The name of Charles Bernard will be found on the 
old programmes of the Canterbm-y and the Oxford. He had 
not a romantic appearance — ^short, thick-set ; an indispens- 
able pince-nez surmoimting a nose which an ardent love of 
boxing had broadened — ^but he had a beautiful voice, and 
was a notable contributor to Charles Morton's operatic 
selections. Then, for years, he was an active partner in the 
control of Bernard and Vestris's Christy Minstrels, still 
singing ballads. He became a power in the provinces, con- 
trolling theatres at Manchester, Dublin, Glasgow and Carlisle, 
and running companies with comic opera, and Shakespeare, 
of which he was an erudite and tasteful producer. I believe 
he claimed to have discovered Florence St John. It was 
another discovery that brought him to grief. Neither his 
strength nor his sympathies were with the Palace, from 
which he retired, to die in Hanwell ! 

It was a whirligig indeed which brought Bernard's old 

164 



NOTES^OR GOLD 

manager to the Palace as his successor. Morton's supremely 
valuable asset was the public belief in his capacity and in his 
luck. He was the figure-head of the Alhambra when it was 
resuscitated ; again, of the Tivoli. Surely enough, when he 
got to the Palace, things began to look up, though it has 
remained for that brilliant young showman, Alfred Butt, 
to bring the house to a monotonous routine of twenty 
thousand pounds to profit per year. To think that Palace 
shares have been quoted in pence ! 

Kilyany's Living Pictures marked the turn in the fortunes 
of the house. And of them, a curious story is to be told. 
There have been living pictures since the bad old days of 
Leicester Square. But Kilyany, a Viennese, I think, did 
them on an heroic scale — ^with perfect mechanism and 
naughty daring, but with exquisite effect. Kilyany's 
pictures were offered to the Alhambra, and contemptuously 
declined by the manager of the moment. Popular imagina- 
tion accredited Morton with securing them for the Palace. 
But the joke is, they were the legacy, to his successors, of 
Augustus Harris. On the night of their production Morton 
stood in his accustomed place, at the back of the stalls, and 
watched one study of " the altogether " to another succeed, 
in terror. He cursed the living pictures, being sure there 
would be trouble with the authorities. So there was ; but 
it was not too serious for arrangement. Moreover, the 
Prince of Wales, who had known Morton since Philharmonic 
days, and permitted a good deal of familiarity, laughed at 
his terrors and told him the pictures would be the making of 
the house. Kilyany went to America and died. 

Living pictures became a mania. Of course there was 
no monopoly in the idea. Any stage carpenter of genius 

165 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

could do the trick, and immediately there were living 
pictures at every music hall in town and coimtry. The 
comic opera choruses were ranged for beauty, and some 
of the best-laiown actresses of the day could, an they would, 
confess to having aired their charms in these circmnstances. 

Harris left to Morton, or the Palace, another legacy — ^a 
genuine revue. Let that be scored up to his memory ! 
While we are on the subject of revues, the very first was con- 
cocted by Mr Seymour Hicks and the late Charles Brookfield 
— Under the Clock, for the Court Theatre. It was a full 
generation before its time, and still infinitely superior to the 
rubbish to which we have been habituated in the meantime. 
But Brookfield 's Pal o' Archie proved to be pretty poor stuff 
for the delectation of the new Palace audiences. 

It was many months ere the living pictures lost their 
attractiveness, if they ever did. And, so far as the Palace 
was concerned, another attraction was immediately forth- 
coming — cinematograph pictures of ciu-ious excellence, 
produced by a machine called the American Biograph. 

Charles Morton was, in those days, and for several years, one 
of the most familiar and respectable figures in London life. 
He had the air of a strayed banker — a snow-white wig, 
plentiful " mutton-chop " whiskers, a collar of the kind with 
which Punch endowed Gladstone, but which Gladstone never 
wore, a large bow-tie of shepherd's plaid, and an old-fashioned 
frock coat. His energy was remarkable — ^an eight-o'clock 
family breakfast in his suburban home was his insistence. 
He was an early arrival at the Palace, and " finicky " in 
business detail. He was obstinate in his views as to the 
value of a performance, declaring that no iadividual was 
worth more than a hundred pounds a week. No doubt he 

i66 




o c 



s^ tit 



1h !^ 

O V] 

H ^ 

X 

o 
z 
o 



la 
< 

a 
W 

a 

< 



"O BI, 

o q 

• BlP-l 

Sz 

<s 

Bo 
SS 



^ 5 

5 o 



NOTES— OR GOLD 

was morally right ; but the market would be fatally against 
him nowadays. It is a pose of the modem music hall 
manager never to be seen without a cigar in his mouth. 
Charles Morton never smoked. He seemed to subsist on tea 
and bread and butter, served to him at intervals, wherever 
he might be iu the theatre. His small allowance of whisky, 
shared with an intimate friend, but respectfully decliaed from 
any other source, was a nightly ritual. Then, he was nearly 
the last man to leave the theatre, his only interest apart 
from it being a love of horse-racing, very moderately en- 
couraged, to the day of his death, at eighty-four. The events 
of his life had left a provokingly slight impression on his 
memory, as many a would-be recorder found. 

His successor at the Palace was his long-time, watchful 
assistant, Alfred Butt, a young accountant who arrived from 
Harrod's in pursuit of his calling, and whose triumphant 
career has been punctuated by the "discovery," in succession, 
of such novel and attractive artists as sweet Rose Stahl, of 
Walter C. Kelly, of Margaret Cooper, of Maud Allan and of 
Pavlova. So comes the history of the Palace up to date. 



167 



CHAPTER XXV 

FEVEBISH FIRST NIGHTS 

How a great Journalist died — The Marquis of Queensberry 
on Marriage — Guy Domville — Actors'' Encounters with 
Audiences — Poet and Painter fight — An Interview with Queen 
Victoria 

OFTEN within one's memory has the excitement 
attendant upon a first performance been increased 
by some unlooked-for incident. But that which was 
most tragical escaped the notice of the audience, save of a few 
— and they did not fully appreciate its force. Old friendship 
for the parties more particularly concerned — the Bancrofts 
especially, for whom, in a mistaken divagation to the stage, 
he wrote their one failure, Tame Cats — in Hare's revival of 
Money, at the Garrick Theatre, in 1894, was one of many 
inducements to Edmund Yates to witness the performance. 
He had been somewhat of an invalid, indeed, ever since his 
shameful imprisonment, for loyalty to a contributor to The 
World, the first of the society papers, as for years we knew 
them, though not the first, really. I think that distinction 
belonged to The Owl, and to Sir Algernon Borthwick. 
Yates always professed to hate the style " society " paper. 
As the theatre emptied after Money he was seen still sitting, 
apparently in his stall. He proved to have had a seizure, 
and to be helpless. He died at a neighbouring hotel, later 
in the night. 

i68 



FEVERISH FIRST NIGHTS 

Yates was for years in the Post Office — the Civil Service 
was the beginning of half-a-hundred popular journalists 
and novelists of that time. He was a prolific writer for 
magazines, and of popular fiction, and almost the first 
joumaUst to give the personal touch to his records. For 
this he incurred the enmity of Thackeray and lost his 
membership of the Garrick Club. He was one of the most 
engaging after-dinner speakers of our time ; an inspiring and 
fastidious editor. And the genius of the editor is rare. I 
have met it once in curious circumstances. If a deep hatred 
of " the City " and its ideals were not in my blood — a sense of 
unhappiness the instant and obstinate symptom produced by 
its miasmic air — I could never have escaped the fascination 
exercised during two years of Harry Marks. No soldier in 
journalism could have an officer so concise and dependable in 
conmaand, so diplomatic and charming in personal contact, 
so deft and simple in instruction, so cynically himiorous in 
criticism, so studiously and generously appreciative. Back 
now to our first nights. 

Never did Tennyson so completely prove that play-writing 
was not his mitier as in the case of The Promise of May, 
which Mrs Bernard Beere produced at the Globe, in 1882. 
Successes he had had in the theatre, but it is an open 
secret that his manuscript was freely and skilfuUy mani- 
pulated at the Lyceima ; probably also at the St James's. 
Nobody had a good word for The Promise of May. Almost 
in his last hours, Tennyson recalled its first performance, 
declaring that " They did not treat me fairly." Had the 
play possessed any vitality the bold advertisement which 
that curious person, the Marquis of Queensberry, gave it 
might have procured it a longer rxm. 

169 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Tennyson's " hero " justified a very sordid act of seduction 
by the exposition of his views on marriage — ^he was an 
agnostic, so styled. " Marriage ! " said he. " Well, when 
the great democratic deluge which is slowly coming upon us, 
and upon all Europe shall have washed away thrones and 
churches, ranks, conditions and customs — ^marriage, one of 
the most senseless, among the rest — ^why then the man and 
the woman, being free to follow their elective affinities will 
each bid the old bond farewell, not with tears but with smiles, 
not with mutual recriminations but with mutual good wishes, 
with no dread of the world's gossip and no necessity for 
concealment ; and the children — ^well, the State will bring 
up the children." And again, addressing his pretty prey: 
" Marriage ! That feeble institution ! Child, it will pass 
away with priestcraft from the pulpit into the crypt, into 
the abyss. For does not Nature herself teach us that marriage 
is against nature. Look at the birds — ^they pair for the season 
and part ; but how merrily they sing ! While marrying is 
like chaining two dogs together by the collar. ' They snarl 
and bite each other because there is no hope of parting." 

At the third performance of The Promise of May the 
Marquis of Queensberry rose in his stall and protested. At 
the end of the act he rose again, meaning to address the 
audience at greater length, but he was gently removed. So, 
in a little while, was The Promise of May. Years later, when 
the Marquis of Queensberry was engineering the ruin of vm- 
happy Oscar Wilde, they went in mortal terror lest he should 
create a disturbance at the St James's. He did not. 

But the St James's Theatre contrived one all on its own 
account on the first night of Mr Henry James's Guy Domville, 
which the " popular " constituents of the audience fiercely 

170 



FEVERISH FIRST NIGHTS 

hissed. There was an angry altercation between Sir George 
Alexander and the gallery boys, which he continued, in 
spite of their assurance that they "had nothing against 
him." The parrot cry of organised opposition was raised, 
and a newer one — ^that of unfriendliness to America ! Mr 
Henry James has forgotten and forgiven anyhow, for he took 
out papers of naturaUsation the other day, for the deliberate 
profession of loyal friendship and devotion to this country. 
It is probable that few of the prdtestants against him appreci- 
ated the hterary distinction of the author — that any felt it 
should affect their attitude towards his play, or stopped to 
think of his nationality. They found the play distasteful, 
and did no more than adopt their time-honoured method of 
expressing their opiaion. William Terriss, writing me about 
this time, declared the right of the "popular" playgoer — in 
his friendly mood avowed by managers to be the very prop 
and mainstay of the theatre — ^to speak ill, as he spoke well. 
" I have paid my good money," said Terriss as an imaginary 
dissentient, " and I have a right to say frankly what I think 
of what I get in return." The Guy Domville controversy 
was carried on for weeks. The play had a career no longer. 
Once only did Irving endanger that curious sense of amity 
between him and his audience which always pervaded the 
Lyceum — elsewhere, we have known a fashion of adulation, 
or a vulgar homeliness of friendship, or the green-sick admira- 
tion of the " matinee girl." The quiet communion between 
Irving and the Lyceum audience was different ; so were his 
speeches — ^the little pose of hesitancy, the generous sweep, 
part hospitality and part appeal, of that wonderful hand, the 
few suave sentences. There was an expression of anger from 
the pit one night, a petulant retort from the actor : " There 

171 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

is something here I do not understand to-night." Then 
understanding came, in a flash of inspiration, that he had 
made a mistake, and as quickly he repaired his error. 

When Mortimer's adaptation of La Dame aux Camdlias 
was first done at the Princess's, as Heartsease, it was a failure, 
though Modjeska afterwards procured it a certain vogue. 
The audience hissed the original version. Sturdy old 
William Rignold begged the protestants to remember that 
they had wives, and sisters and daughters. His ciu-ious plea 
was not in respect of Marguerite — ^but of Helen Barry, her 
stage representative. It was allowed to pass. But when 
G. W. Anson sought to play the pedagogue to the audience 
which hissed Wilkie CoUins's Rank and Riches at the Adelphi, 
he exceeded its patience, and ten years' banishment to the 
colonies was his fate — that is to say, he preferred the 
Australian to the London stage for so long, though his re- 
ception, when he reappeared at the Court Theatre, in G. W. 
Godfrey's Parvenu, showed that his error had been completely 
forgotten — ^if ever it had been seriously held in remembrance. 

James Albery lost his head badly when Jacks and Jills 
was hissed at the Vaudeville in 1880, and I think on that 
occasion, coined that blessed phrase, " organised opposition." 
When Where's the Cat, adapted by the same author, was 
badly received, a little later, at the Criterion, Sir Charles 
Wyndham, always willing to break a lance in such a cause, 
affected to believe that the audience was still vindictive 
towards Albery, and apologised for him, an act which Albery 
angrily repudiated. 

It is difficult for the lay mind to grasp the importance of 
a simple scenic effect, say to a Drury Lane melodrama, when 
an ill-oiled wheel will rob of its effect a sensation which might 

172 



FEVERISH FIRST NIGHTS 

mean a fortune ; or, do worse — ^reveal a simple subterfuge 
and make the whole ridiculous. In Strathlogan, a good, 
average melodrama done at the Princess's, there was a whirl- 
pool. Had it worked, it would have been a town's talk. 
But it stuck ; we saw a heroine who had been fliuig into a 
torrent sitting on a sordid, wooden wheel. It needed oil, or 
the stage hands needed oil. It hopped, and skipped, and 
stood still again — ^always a wheel. The audience shouted 
with laughter. Scott saw the text for a fuimy column in 
The Telegraph : and the play was ruined. 

Probably the most amusiag first-night row within the 
memory of modem playgoers is that which occurred after the 
performance of The Coquette at the Prince of Wales's Theatre 
in the spring of 1899. Hans Lowenfeld then directed that 
theatre. He is a Czech, with a genius for figm-es. He ran 
one big bucket shop after another, and became rich. He tried 
to make another fortune on the side by the exploitation of a 
temperance drink which it was declared no toper could dis- 
tinguish from ale. As no one ever drank enough of it to make 
a fly drunk, we are still without a valuable opinion in confirma- 
tion of Hans (or Henry) Lowenfeld's. His attitude towards 
the drama was conceived in the spirit of that of the late 
Henry Brougham Famie. It is projected in Les Contes 
Marines. Not satisfied with the reception of The Coquette, 
Lowenfeld appeared before the curtain and expressed his 
determination to " have it out " with the " dissentient 
voices," as the reporters call them, in the gallery. He 
reviled them, and got his oAvn back. Then there was a saving 
inflection of humour in the interchange. Lowenfeld, withj 
I suspect, a little blood other than Czech in his veins, in a 
piteous voice, disclosed the cost of The Coquette, and who 

173 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

should know better ? There was a kind of handshake across 
the footlights, and it was all over. 

Of another amusing s6ene at the theatre I was curiously 
the immediate receptacle of the opposing accoimts. During 
an entr'acte of Pettitt's A Million of Money, at Drury Lane, in 
the autumn of 1890, there was a collision between " Jimmy " 
Whistler and Augustus Moore, at that time editing The Hawk, 
which naturally got a page of vivacious paragraphs out of 
the incident. Moore declared that Whistler, whom he 
described with minute insolence, cried : " Hawk ! Hawk ! 
Hawk ! " touched him with a tiny cane, and was promptly 
knocked down. Friends intervened. Moore returned to his 
stall, and Whistler retired. So much for Moore's version. 

Whistler made his way to the office of The Sunday Times, 
being an intimate of the staff of that day. He certainly 
bore no evidence of having been knocked down — ^nothing 
showed signs of damage but his stick. He declared that he 
had reproached Moore with an attack on the memory of his 
dead friend — Godwin, the architect, whose widow he married 
— and that he got in two smashing blows. Indeed, I do not 
think either was a penny the worse. 

Robert Buchanan, who had the habit of borrowing play- 
material from great folk, then, reviling his benefactors — ^he 
called Fielding " a dirty old ruffian," I believe — ^resentfully 
told me that when he was writing Dick Sheridan he bought a 
volume of Sheridan's Bon Mots, and was forced to the conclu- 
sion that the misrepresented wit had left him little material 
for dialogue. Certainly the Sheridan of the play was a very 
dull dog. But how many men, according to their contem- 
poraries brilliant and spontaneous, have been ungenerous to 
posterity I We have about half-a-dozen threadbare stories 

174 



FEVERISH FIRST NIGHTS 

of H. J. Byron, for instance ; fewer of Whistler — ^whom I 
suspect to have been painfully elaborate in impromptu. 
From time to time he would present himself at The Sunday 
Times office with the intention of contributing one of his 
letters to the editor. We kept the famous butterfly 
signature in stock. He would be enclosed in a room for 
hours, and emerge with twenty lines. The floor one would 
find knee-deep in spoiled sheets. Whistler was at that time 
deeply interested in a little paper called The Whirlwind, but 
it was short-lived. 

Of The Hawk — ^its story has been told a hundred times — 
I would merely say that it is a poor monument of Moore's 
genius. He was a brilliant journalist — ^none thought of him 
more highly than Edmund Yates, and who should be a 
better judge ? Moore had education, a curiously tenacious 
memory, the knack of vivid, interesting narrative, a tender 
fancy and a correct style in verse. He could be a charming 
companion and a loyal friend. It is fate that links his 
memory with The Hawk — ^an obsession of mischievousness 
and savagery that represented but six years' work in a career 
extending over thirty. His proudest achievement was an 
interview with Queen Victoria, which appears in The World 
at the time of her Diamond Jubilee. To have written a 
" Celebrity at Home " for The World was the cachet of every 
joumahst engaged in these exercises in intrusion. Yates did 
the first few himself, to set a style, which he insisted on as 
a model — ^it was perfect, in its extent and in its limitations. 
There must be so much topography, so much biography, so 
much portraiture. When the Prince of Wales was approached 
for a sitting he agreed, feeling so safe. Dr "Billy " Russell 
was the operator. 

175 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Queen Victoria, of course, was never personally approached. 
But Moore had half-a-score of note-books on the personalities 
and environment of the great, besides the inexhaustible pigeon- 
holes of his brain. He had a genius for creating an atmos- 
phere. And his most unfriendly colleague — ^Heaven knows 
how he made so many of them, unless it was by injudicious 
loans — ^was bound to admit the ingenuity and gripping interest 
of the result. 

Robert Buchanan was a brutal critic, and seemed to love 
a quarrel. He was, in fact, a generous-hearted and lovable 
man. For dramatic critics in general, and for Clement Scott 
in particular, he avowed bitter contempt. At the invitation 
of his collaborator, Harry Murray — ^my oldest colleague, I 
think, in London journalism — I attended the last performance 
oiA Society Butterfly, by Mrs Langtry, at the Opera Comique, 
on the mysterious promise of a sensation. Buchanan 
appeared before the curtain and uttered a wild attack on 
Scott, in the hope that it would lead to an action for libel, 
but it fell flat. 

There have been these outbursts impugning the good faith 
of criticism throughout the history of the stage. Mr Arthur 
Bourchier, in the early days of his management at the Garrick, 
set his hand to the work of an imagined reform. By the hand 
of his manager he circulated a statement of his intention to 
have no more first-night notices. He would appoint a later 
night for the attendance of the recorders. And soon he 
qjrculated, in his very own handwriting, a very charming note 
of withdrawal from a contest that had proved unequal. 
" They can't do without uth," said Mr Sleary. 



176 



CHAPTER XXVI 



SOME EDITORS 



A Famous Philanderer — Practical John HoUingshead — His Gaiety 
Confession — The Marquis de LeuviUe — Augustus Harris and 
Literature — Edward Ledger as Lucullus 

WHAT a ciirious manage was that of The Sunday 
Times, in the days of the Whistler visitations ! 
Its editor was the late Phil Robinson, who had 
persuaded a charming lady, his fellow-passenger on a home- 
ward voyage from Australia, to devote, to the purchase of the 
paper from the Fitzgeorges — the children, by a morganatic 
marriage with a famous ballet dancer, of the Duke of Cam- 
bridge — 2k few of the thousands she had romantically made 
out of a gold mine. Robinson rarely visited the ofiBce, 
preferring to encourage his fellow-members of the Savage 
Club in steeplechases round the dining-room, which caused 
the committee grave concern. His reputation mainly 
rested on a book called My Indian Garden. I heard him 
accept, without a hint of humorous qualification, the 
assurance that he was " the greatest naturalist since Oliver 
Goldsmith." 

Fourteen members of the Savage formed the staff of The 
Sunday Times, each being appointed Editor of his Department, 
vrtth orders to act independently, but especially to disregard 
the unhappy acting editor. Sometimes the paper was in- 
teresting ; sometimes it seemed to lack homogeneity. It was 

M 177 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

generally very late in arrival at the press-room. Acting 
charades was a diversion not unknown to Saturday night. 

On one of Phil Robinson's rare editorial visits to the office 
he brought an important paragraph : 

" We are informed that Mr Augustus Fitzbattleaxe has been 
appointed editor of The West End Wit, but as our informant 
is Mr Fitzbattleaxe there is certainly not a word of truth 
in the statement." 

Probably my persuasion, long continued, till it secured the 
omission of the paragraph, saved our proprietress much 
trouble. But the story soon travelled, and lost me the 
friendship of Fitzbattleaxe, who furiously protested that 
we " might comfortably have cut up a thousand " had I 
connived at the libel and an eventual action. Cutting up 
thousands under similar conditions has reduced poor Fitz- 
battleaxe to the gutter now. 

In early life Phil Robinson had written a thousand or so 
leading articles for The Daily Telegraph, all which had been 
carefully pasted on sheets of foolscap for him and pigeon- 
holed. His theory was that the calendar suggested an article 
every day, for a term of years — " Oyster season begins " ; 
" St Swithin's Day " ; " Charles I. beheaded , 1 649, " and so on. 
And he just used his erudite and charming essays over and 
over again, bestowing no pains on their correction. So we 
frequently received, at The Sunday Times office, letters of 
angry remark, caused by his citation of people dead since the 
original publications — for instance, he would write, of some 
viveur in the shades, " Jolly old So-and-So presided, as he 
has done for years." 

Sir Edwin Arnold wrote : 

178 



SOME EDITORS 

" Dear Phil, — I always read your delightful articles in 
The Sunday Times, often feeling that I recognise an old 
friend ; to-day, a near relation indeed. The Lieutenant 
seems (see enclosed) to have bagged spoil appertaining to 
the Ancient. Yours, E. A." 

The keeper of Robinson's scrapbook had carelessly included 
a few specimens of the work of other contributors to The 
Telegraph, and he had on this occasion reproduced an article 
of his old editor's. 

Robinson vainly sought to establish half-a-dozen papers. 
Most vivacious was The Cuckoo, a daily-eveniag imitation 
of The World. Phil read the proofs of the last issue on the 
ledge of the fountain in the Temple. The brokers had locked 
him out of the office — for once, he had not recognised their 
indulgence with the punctiliousness they expected of an old 
friend. Phil Robinson could be as vicious as he was charming. 
Henry Murray's best novel, A Song of Sixpence, appeared 
in The Sunday Times, in instalments, and if on occasion 
Murray had not proved amenable to Robinson's interminable 
demands on his friendship, a proof of the week's feuilleton 
would be called for and elaborately decorated with the 
editorial blue pencil before the suffering eyes of the novelist. 

An occasional visitor to the office of The Sunday Times 
was John HoUingshead, whom I got to know extremely well. 
He was then nearing seventy, broken in fortune but vigorous 
in health, back to the calling of his youth, when he was a 
careful and much esteemed member of Dickens's staff on 
Household Words. His hair was plentiful and white ; his 
complexion florid, his dress scrupulously neat — ^the cleanest- 
looking old man I ever encountered. He would take a 

179 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

commission for an article, make definite arrangements as 
to terms, and bring back, to the minute, the exact amomit 
of manuscript agreed upon, in his own neat handwriting. 
I beUeve that in his largest undertakings he had never 
employed assistance, mechanical or other, in his correspond- 
ence, and rarely made a written contract. When he did so, 
it had mostly led to a misunderstanding, otherwise unknown. 
He used to utter strong opinions in a high-pitched voice — 
and that expresses his literary method too. 

HoUingshead could surely have written a profoundly 
interesting volume of reminiscences. He preferred a saltless 
hotchpotch of dates and instances, declaring to his intimates 
that his life has been devoid of scandalous experience — even 
at the Gaiety — ^and that, at any rate, it would be a poiat of 
honour with him, to the end, to make no " revelations." 

One Sunday in the country, as we set out for a drive, he 
hammered at the closed door of a public-house, demanding 
an unneeded pint of ale. When it was refused he uttered a 
set speech against the licensing laws. Farther along he 
hammered at the door of a hairdresser and asked to be 
shaved, though he had scraped a velours before we set out. 
Another refusal, another diatribe against Sunday observance. 
John felt that he had now fulfilled his obligations to society, 
and for the rest of the day was a pleasant and charming 
companion. 

Once, in a restaurant, HoUingshead asked the German 
proprietor to tell him the composition of a dish. The man 
"didn't know." Said HoUingshead, rather angrily: "But 
you sell it." " Ja, Ja," was the reply, " I sell lots of mooek 
dot I don't eat." John softened to a smUe. "I ran the 
Gaiety on those lines for twenty years," he agreed. He was 

i8o 



SOME EDITORS 

always harping on the more distinguished plays which 
alternated with burlesque there, and almost ignored, for his 
personal entertainment, some of his lighter productions. 
Once, in his office, Charles CoUette spoke of the " damned 
bad play " then current. " The damned good play," cor- 
rected HoUingshead. " I don't believe you've really seen it, 
governor," Collette ventured. "You're quite right," said 
HoUiagshead ; " but I've seen to-night's returns." 

Still he was very sensitive behind his cynicism, and when 
W. S. Gilbert once spoke in pity of the authors who had to 
" write down to the level of a Gaiety audience " HoUingshead 
retorted that Gilbert must be held to have set that level, siace 
he wrote the first Gaiety burlesque. It was Robert the Devil. 

A persistent Sunday Times caller was the Marquis de 
Leuville, a weird creature of whom rumour said that he 
had been an assistant at Truefit's. Certainly his oiled and 
curled hair and beard gave colour to this story. He was 
undoubtedly the favourite of a very wealthy widow, pre- 
vented by the terms of her husband's will from marrying 
again. She had bought her faithful servant the title of 
Marquis, from goodness knows where, and Wardour Street 
had been ransacked to fill his chambers with articles of 
bigotry and virtue. Here he used to entertain lavishly. 
Willie Wilde, a clever, witty, fascinating man, who was 
overshadowed by his brother's fame, and eventually over- 
whelmed by his disgrace, would often lead the revel. De 
Leuville wrote preposterous poetry, then made a round of 
the newspapers till he could hire one to print his trash. He 
left in his trail a scent of attar of roses, which for days would 
even overcome that faint odour of putrid paste inseparable 
from the room of every sub-editor earnestly employed. 

i8i 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Augustus Harris was the next owner of The Sunday Times, 
with Willing, the advertising agent, for his partner. Willing 
at one time had a mania for putting his name to plays which 
John Douglass, of the Standard Theatre, really wrote and 
produced. Willing became so casual, in this respect, that 
in the earlier hours of a first night bold spirits would pin him 
to the wall in the bar, and defy him to describe the course, 
say, of the third act. 

Harris's purchase of The Sunday Times was not uncon- 
nected with his own play-writing. He wrote a series of ^.rticles, 
which duly appeared in the paper, and of which the manu- 
script was carefully preserved as a proof, in case of need, of 
his ability to write, should dramatic authors, for instance, 
ever seek to maintain that he did not take a very active 
part in the construction of the plays to which he always 
insisted on attaching his name as part author, taking his 
proportion of the fees. 

He certainly did suggest much of the incident in the Drury 
Lane dramas. His secretaries would suddenly be called upon 
to take notes of plots that might have filled the dimensions 
of a Chinese tragedy. He teemed with ideas, usually at the 
wrong moment. In the roof of his Soho Square house, once 
a convent, Charles Alias, the costumier, has a secret study, 
a low-roofed, old-world apartment, where he puts on a velvet 
thinkiug cap and secludes himself. 

Plans for the Drury Lane pantomime himg fire one year. 
Alias attacked the manager in a weak spot — ^breakfast-time, 
at the Elms, his beautiful St John's Wood home. He begged 
for instructions that would permit him to go ahead with the 
pantomime. Harris, in his detached way, drew pictures on 
the tablecloth, then, after an interval, said : " Do you know 

182 



SOME EDITORS 

what I think of doing next year, Charlie ? " It was too much ! 
The costumier exploded. " Next year ! You say next year, 
ha ? Well, say next year just once more, I go up to my top 
room and, by God ! I never come down no more." 

Harris's late breakfast was an amazing function — a city 
dinner, in fact, designed to " make sure." His feeding till he 
drove home again, at any hour in the morning, often with a 
club companion commandeered to a picnic, was casual. At 
one end of the huge dining-table were two or three secretaries, 
feeding him with & precis of his vast correspondence, and 
taking replies. A guest or two would share the other meal, 
listening to his quick, interesting talk. In the drawing-room 
an Italian tenor would wait a voice trial ; in the library a 
scenic artist would tenderly guard a tentative model of a 
transformation for possible approval, and possible metra- 
gobolisation. And then he would drive away to the theatre, 
arriving at three o'clock for a rehearsal which had probably 
been called for one, and listening to a passionate love scene 
the while an elderly lady was interviewing him for Fashions 
and Foibles of the Fair. 

Harris made a distracting editor — ^his alter ego being his 
relative, Arthiu" a Beckett. There was a certain fitness in 
the situation, for E. T. Smith, a previous manager of Drury 
Lane, was a previous owner of The Sunday Times. But 
Harris had too many interests. He sold the paper, curiously 
enough, to a woman again, Mrs Beere ; and his overdrawn 
vitality failed soon after. Forty-four saw the great manager 
on his death-bed. 

One might vnite a volume of the vicissitudes of this sturdy 
old newspaper. In the fifties the theatrical folk decided to 
invite a Sunday paper to become their representative organ. 

183 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Choice lay finally between The Sunday Times and The Era. 
The latter accepted the position, eliminated its general 
and sporting news, and became the trade organ of the stage, 
at first under the direction of Frederick Ledger, then of 
his son, who sold it a few years ago, choosing the moment 
with that exceeding shrewdness which characterised all his 
actions. Sir William Bass gave a himdred (and a few odd) 
thousand pounds for the property, and Mr Ledger retired to 
the Gables, Hampstead — ^and to one of the finest collections 
of armour in the world. 

It used to be his annual custom to entertain the theatrical 
celebrities of the day at dinner, and to commemorate the 
occasion by some Lucullan freak. He once had eighty straw- 
berry plants carefully nurtured in pots, so that at dessert he 
might say to his guests, each opposite a blooming strawberry 
plant : "Now, my dear friends — ^gather your own fruit." The 
service seemed slow. Ledger cried to his man : " Come, 
come ! The dessert ? " " In a minute, sir ! " was the 
reply. " They've nearly picked the strawberries." 



184 



CHAPTER XXVII 

THE WESTMINSTER AQUARIUM 

Church and Stage — Labouchere as a Showman — Many Monsters — 
Gymnastic Sensations — A Fight with the County Council — 
M'Dougall 

SOME curious assimilations of church and stage present 
themselves to the student of popular entertainment. 
Prior Raherus may be said to have sounded the note 
of variety when he established Bartholomew Fair, as a kind 
of charity bazaar, at the threshold of his priory, and took 
up his old trade of a jesting juggler to help things along. 
Certain historians of Westminster suggest that pilgrims to 
a Becket's shrine bade farewell to frivolity at the Canterbury 
Arms, which became the Canterbury Music Hall. The 
South London Music Hall was once a Catholic chapel. The 
Royal Music Hall, Holbom, absorbed a Methodist conventicle. 
En revanche. General Booth made the old Prince of Wales's 
Theatre into a Salvation hall ; likewise the Grecian Theatre 
in City Road. The Surrey Theatre housed Spurgeon's flock 
when his Tabernacle was burnt. 

But is there any spectacle so quaint as that of the Wesleyan 
Church House, built on the site of the Westminster Aquariimi ? 
For many years this dull and dingy glass house was pelted 
with stones of moral reprobation, but stiU endured, to enjoy 
a reputation for naughtiness wholly undeserved. The most 
one could ever say of it was that it had the soporific effect of 

185 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

the Crystal Palace without involving the most troublesome 
railway journey known to the civilised world. 

And yet, when one comes to think of it, the Westminster 
Aquarium — ^its proper style was the Royal Aquariiun and 
Summer and Winter Garden, Westminster — ^has, on occa- 
sions, provided thrilling experience. Its licence was con- 
stantly in peril on account of the dangerously sensational 
shows its management more and more affected. Still it is 
remarkable there was never a serious accident here, though 
some of the high divers contrived to kill themselves with 
celerity when they went elsewhere. Men were buried alive, 
and came up smiling. They starved for months, and 
appeared to thrive on it. They were hanged by the neck 
and suffered no inconvenience. They were petrified, boiled, 
roasted ; they cycled down precipitous declines, dropped 
hundreds of feet, and were no whit the worse. 

It seems strange that such an establishment should have 
been opened by a royal prince, with a proper surrounding of 
the nobility, clergy and gentry. Yet so it was, just thirty 
years ago, while half-a-million gallons of sea-water moaned 
in its cavernous depths for fish that were never to come ; and 
the imtilled gardens cared not whether it was winter or 
smnmer. A band which Arthur Sidlivan recruited from the 
four corners of the earth, singers headed by Sims Reeves, 
an Art Exhibition organised by Millais, failed to attract. It 
is on record that the first entertainment in which the public 
displayed the slightest interest was that given by a French 
juggler and mime, Monsieur Trewey — ^not forgetting the edify- 
ing exhibition personally provided by the directorate, which 
quarrelled furiously, and continued to do so till the Aquarium 
and Simuner and Winter Garden closed its doors for ever. 

i86 



THE WESTMINSTER AQUARIUM 

Wybrow Robertson and Henry Labouchere, the actual 
promoters of the concern, were the plaintiff and defendant 
respectively in an action for libel. Labouchere won, but 
Robertson (who was the husband of beautiful Marie Litton) 
was more successful in retaining the management of the 
show, which he reconstituted, with Bamimi for his model 
and G. A. Farini for his adviser. Farini was in early life a 
brilliant gymnast. He crossed Niagara on a tight rope, in 
succession to Blondin. He headed a wonderful party of 
aerial performers in the early days of the Alhambra ; and 
he invented Lulu, a lovely girl, apparently, who was shot 
from a spring pedestal to a lofty platform. For years the 
secret was kept — ^till the sensation was quite worn out, in 
fact. Then Lulu stood revealed, a well-bearded youth, who 
was last heard of as a prosperous photographer in San 
Francisco. 

In like manner Zazel, Farini's first contribution to the 
welfare of the Aquarium, was shot from a cannon. There was 
a frenzied outcry — ^it may have been from a genuinely horrified 
pubUc, or it may have been from the advertising department 
of the Aquarium — ^to the Home Ofiice, and Mr Secretary Cross 
wrote to the manager warning him that he would be held 
responsible for any accident to Zazel. Within twenty-foiu" 
hours London was placarded with Mr Cross's letter, and with 
Mr Wybrow Robertson's reply, in which he imited to his 
assurance that there was no danger, an invitation to the 
Home Secretary to come and be shot up at his convenience, 
and so satisfy himself Not being Mr Winston Churchill, 
the Home Secretary ignored the invitation, although in 
truth there was little danger in Zazel's performance if the 
apparatus did its work, which was very simple. 

187 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Farini got a large fee, Zazel but a small one. She assmned 
the time-honoured prerogative of the 'prima donna, and 
threatened to walk out of the theatre. Farini finessed, and 
in secrecy prepared four Zazels in separate suburbs, all ready 
to replace the recalcitrant beauty at a moment's notice. 

Farini was something of an ethnologist too. He showed a 
group of Zulus, a group of Laplanders, another of what he 
called " earth men " and a hair-covered girl whom he dis- 
tinguished from the common or garden " bearded lady " of 
Ratcliffe Highway by describing her as " Darwin's Missing 
Link," impudently challenging scientific discussion of what 
is not an unusual phenomenon, and may be acquired for a 
moderate figure through any of the theatrical papers. Krao 
was one of the few " freaks " who contrived to secure a share 
of her earnings. She now lives in New York, well-to-do and 
well-educated. When Farini retired from business, having 
made a comfortable fortune, he devoted himself to gardening, 
and became an authority on the begonia. But the Klondyke 
gold rush was too much for him and off he went again. 

Meanwhile the Aquarium perfunctorily remembered its 
educational mission. It exhibited a primitive telephone. 
It managed awhile to keep " the only Gorilla alive in 
captivity" — ^Pongo of blessed memory. But it killed two 
unhappy whales. One does not recall that the " Talking 
Walrus " recited passages from Alice in Wonderland, though, 
of course, he should have done so. Most of the " Educated 
Seals " graduated from the Aquarium, which set the fashion, 
too, in boxing kangaroos. 

Manager to manager succeeded — ^to Mr Wybrow Robertson, 
Captain Hobson, who instituted the swimming exhibitions 
so long a feature of the Aquarium programme, and billiard 

i88 



THE WESTMINSTER AQUARIUM 

tournaments ; to Captain Hobson, Mr De Pinna, who spread 
himself on pugilists ; to Mr De Pinna, Captain Molesworth, 
whose term was distinguished by the advent of Sandow, and 
by the Zceo incident. 

Strong men there have been from time immemorial in the 
world of popular entertainment. But they were held to be 
vulgar ; they had one foot in the fair and one in the circus 
ring. The music hall looked at them a little askance, even 
in its unregenerate days. Sampson, who arrived at the 
Aquarium some time in 1889, was a smart, gentlemanlike little 
man, who got a certain vogue in the Bohemian set. To him 
certainly is due the position of the " strong man " to-day as 
an accepted and highly paid artist — ^with Sandow's super 
growth into a company promoter and quasi-physician I am 
not concerned. Sampson was a brilliant and accomplished 
artist, who bade fair to achieve a distinction in his sphere. 
But he was criminally careless. His dramatic defeat by the 
unknown Sandow might have been retrieved. But the too 
fascinating strong man was immediately involved in a scandal 
which involved his ruin. Nothing is so certain as that 
Sampson beheved his challenge, delivered from the Aquarium 
stage, would fall on the air, or at any rate be accepted by some 
inefficient adventurer. His possibly dangerous rivals were 
known, and their absence was noted. Otherwise the stage 
would have been differently set, as every showman — ^not now 
to discourse of the tricks of this trade — ^knows. What a 
dramatic scene was that when young Sandow, in evening 
dress, sprang lightly from his box, held Sampson to his 
challenge, walked away with all the honours, and continued 
his triimiphant progress to heights undreamed of. 

Soon afterwards the Zceo sensation occurred. There is 

189 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

no doubt the unhappy lady, absolutely devoid of offence, 
was made the occasion of an outcry by persons with ulterior 
objects. The Aquarium had already got a particular reputa- 
tion, and year after year, at the meeting of the London 
County Council to consider licences for places of popular 
entertainment, the fury of the battle raged around the 
Aquariimi. Its licence had already been decorated with 
admonitions and reservations — ^illegally, it may be, but 
effectively — ^when the Zoeo affair occurred. The idea of the 
" purity " party seems to have been to forge, in Midsummer, 
a weapon which it might employ months later. And in this 
it succeeded. 

Zoeo, a good-looking young woman of five and twenty, 
trained in the circus from childhood by Harry Wieland, whom 
she afterwards married, was a versatile and accomplished 
artist — ^a graceful dancer and skilled gymnast, but particu- 
larly an aerial performer of great daring. Her Aquarium 
bonne bouche was a backward somersault, and fall, from a 
great height to a net. For her advertisement a poster was 
employed, an enlargement of her photograph in the attire 
accustomed of a gymnast. Such pictures have been exhibited 
in hundreds before and since. But The Standard was induced 
by the Central Vigilance Society for the Suppression of Vice 
to open a correspondence, which increased in violence and 
bitterness. An application was most ingeniously made by 
the Vigilance Society to Sir John Bridge at Bow Street, but 
he shook his head and declared that he could not move till 
the police complained, and the police were silent. Sir John, 
bored by persistent applications, asked the Aquarium people 
if they thought the poster worth the fuss. They did. Next 
the Rev. Hugh Chapmail iavited the London Coimty Council 

190 



THE WESTMINSTER AQUARIUM 

to condemn the poster by resolution. But the chairman 
peremptorily ruled such business out of order, and Zceo sailed 
along complacently till the licensing session, when the storm 
broke out with the stored-up violence of months. An inter- 
national crisis could not have engaged such eagerness of 
journalism. To the poster a new consideration was added. 
Someone suggested that the gymnast suffered from shocking 
excoriation, the result of her contact with the net, in her fall. 
There was a solemn deputation of County Coimcillors to the 
Aquarium, soon satisfied that this statement was untrue. 
But the incident raised a chorus of ridicule. Sancti- 
monious creatures eyeing Zoeo's back filled the comic papers, 
to the deep annoyance of the amiable and exemplary gym- 
nast. The interest of Parliament was stimulated. But 
the Aquarium was brought into submission. Captain Moles- 
worth, ere he got his licence, was fain to promise that he would 
use no more of the posters — ^he got what consolation he could 
out of the addendum that he could not if he would, having 
exhausted the stock. 

There is one party to the agitation to whom, at any rate 
in his attitude on the question of popular entertainment, 
justice has never been done. " M'Dougall " became, nearly, 
a dictionary word. Ridicule was poured on the good man 
by every flippant reporter and every comic singing clown. 
Sir John M'Dougall was, no doubt, imbued by the qualities 
of his race and of his creed, but he was never the intolerant 
opponent of decent recreation. He was confronted with an 
evil. He fought it fairly and squarely, under a cross fire of 
misimderstanding. The music hall of to-day is vastly better 
for his discipline. And still, its best friend cannot allow it 
to have perfection, even in its distant view. 

191 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Captain Molesworth's tenure of office was not long, after 
the ZcEo business. He was succeeded by Mr Josiah Ritchie, 
who had money in the concern and was of a disposition to 
watch it. He had made a comfortable fortune out of artificial 
teeth, being the pioneer of the Complete Set for a Guinea. 
But he applied himself to the Aquarium with extraordinary 
zest and aptitude, cultivating the huge moustache and 
sombrero of the American showman — ^though he was a small 
person — ^practising the most trivial economies and keeping 
the Aquarium alive for ten years, by sometimes the most 
desperate expedients, till he brought the Methodist deal to 
an issue ; a queer, unforgettable figure. 



192 



CHAPTER XXVIII 

CONCERNING CHORISTERS 

Antiquity of the Show Girl— The First " Professional Beauty ''—The 
Gaiety Stage Door — Erudite Chorus Girls — Training a Dancer — 
From the Chorus Room to Fame 

THERE are- in London some three thousand young 
women who probably describe themselves as 
actresses, and who, in varying degrees, really depend 
upon the theatre for a livelihood. They provide the decorative 
background of the stage ; but they are capable of many sub- 
divisions — dancers, singers, extra ladies and show girls are 
some. Many of these girls have a definite and laudable 
ambition, industry and courage. Not more than two-thirds 
of them can command regular work. Their salaries range 
from eighteen shillings a week — ^at which rate, I regret to say, 
it is possible to engage a trained dancer — ^to five pounds, 
which in rare cases is given to a " show girl," a young woman 
of conspicuous beauty and style, whose appearance — silent, 
immobile and expressionless — ^in a revue or a musical comedy 
commands a steady sale of five or six stalls a night. This is 
technically known as Mademoiselle's " following," or trade 
capital. 

Among the show girl's occupations extraneous to the theatre 

is that of sitting to photographers. A pretty and well-known 

woman wiU make as much as two hundred pounds a year 

by this means — a cm"ious contrast to the experience of poor 

N 193 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

little Maud Branscombe, the first stage beauty to appeal 
to the photographer as a vendible article. Evelyn Rayne, 
now a charming matron at Brighton, Mrs Langtry and Mrs 
Cornwallis West were other shop-window celebrities of the 
time, for whose category the phrase, " professional beauty," 
was coined. Maud Branscombe's photographs must have 
been sold by the million, not only as likenesses, but in all 
kinds of advertising combinations. She was the " Nim 
nicer" of a tooth paste. She clung to a cross for "The 
Rock of Ages." 
Lydia Thompson satirically sang : 

" I've been photographed Uke this, 
I've been photographed Uke that, 
I've been photographed -mid falling snow — 
In a large and furry hat. 
I've been photograph-ed standing — 
With my hands behind my back. 
But I never have been taken 
Like a raving maniac. '- 

Maud Branscombe assiu-ed me that she never got a penny 
piece in respect of her photographs. I met her no great while 
ago — still a delicate, iimocent-looking bit of china. 

HoUingshead recognised the show girl as a factor of the 
Gaiety in a frank and characteristic way. With his own 
hand he wrote, and affixed to the stage door, the notice : 
" Ladies drawing less than twenty-five shillings a week are 
politely requested not to arrive at the theatre in broughams." 
But the show girl was already an institution. Macready 
is credited with a moral reflection on her ftirs. And Dickens 
knew her. " What's the legitimate object of the drama, 
Pip ? " said the Viscount. " Human Nature ! " " What 
are legs ? " " Human Nature ! " " Then let us have plenty 

194 



CONCERNING CHORISTERS 

of Human Nature, Pip ; and I'll stand by you, my buck ! " 
True to his compact, the Viscount has " stood by " ever since. 
But " there are degrees " in Viscounts too. Doubtless the 
late Lord Alfred Paget was the most deliberately economical 
patron of the lighter side of the stage it ever knew. He 
is said to have stocked himself, for souvenirs, with simple 
jewellery from Birmingham, at wholesale prices. It was not 
Lord Alfred who presented one of the sultanas with a price- 
less set of silver sable. She was asked by her companions 
how she had spent the day. " Oh ! " was the reply, " those 
furs the Duke gave me were full of grey hairs ; and I've been 
picking them out." Lord Alfred Paget having been a 
privileged visitor to the earlier Gaiety was, with others, 
scheduled by George Edwardes, for diplomatic repression 
by the late Charles Dundas Slater, who, from his seat in the 
box-office, controlled a door leading forth to the stage. It 
was suddenly locked, and Slater protested to Lord Alfred 
that he had not got the key. After an absence of a few days 
the old reprobate returned, and, flinging a brace of freshly 
shot rabbits on the ledge of the box-office, he cried : " There, 
my lad I Now what about that key ? " 

Rabbits or no rabbits, the door of the Gaiety has been 
opened pretty freely to the peerage, for there have been no 
fewer than twenty-three formal marriages of minor actresses 
to men of title in as many years. 

Sometimes these marriages have grim sequels. There was 
a famous beauty of the stage, twenty-five years ago, who 
married a man of title, and was disposed to live decently and 
happily with him. His family was utterly irreconcilable, 
spirited the consumptive, dissipated wretch away, and 
harassed the unhappy wife till she consented to the arrange- 

195 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

ment of a divorce, in the particular respect of which she was 
indubitably innocent. But her life thereafter may not be told. 

When the Gaiety company was first remitted to America 
and Australia, the utmost difficulty was experienced in 
persuading the show girls to leave London. Double wages 
would hardly tempt them to forsake the mysteriously bene- 
ficial employments extraneous to the theatre they had in 
London. Li the event, about twenty per cent, of them 
made brilliant marriages abroad. Some of the girls had 
very vague ideas about America. The manager lost a party 
of them on the elevated railway. Working back to the 
station of origin, he found them huddled together like a 
flock of frightened sheep. He reproached them with not 
having the sense to ask their way. " Ask the way indeed," 
said an angry dame. "Why, there isn't one of us can 
speak the language." 

What she supposed the language to be, deponent sayeth 
not ; but we once encountered a Gaiety girl who spoke 
French, German and Spanish indiscriminately. Her father 
was a distinguished clergyman of the Anglican Church ; 
and she eventually married an officer in the Guards. 
Another guest at this joyous supper-party was a Girton girl. 
Another was a sumptuous creature whose father dug graves 
at Kensal Green, and whose pet name, in the disrespectful 
dressing-room, seeing that she tended to obesity, was 
"Greasy Grace." It is an incomparably cosjmopolitan 
community, drawn from every class of society, high, low 
and intermediate, accomplished and illiterate. Many of its 
members are attracted by nothing but an inordinate love of 
dress. The musical comedies of to-day are a very debauch 
of finery, the show girl in stage panoply being worth, say, a 

196 



CONCERNING CHORISTERS 

hundred pounds as she stands. It was characteristic of the 
George Edwardes method that in order to secure a faultless 
ensemble, the stage beauty was not merely provided with outer 
garments, but underwear, corsets and boots — even coiffure. 

As a rule the show girl is absolutely devoid of ambition, 
although in rare instances she has refused to be the slave of 
her environment. If she believes she has an aptitude for 
the stage, and expresses a desire to get on, she must prepare 
for a sacrifice. The revelation of brains instantly subjects 
her beauty to a heavy discount. She ceases to be a show 
girl, and is re-rated as a minor actress, at, say, two poimds 
a week. There is a capital story of a well-known author 
who, having introduced the character of a chorus lady to 
a comedy, thought it would save trouble and produce a 
greater effect if the real article were employed. " I say, 
guv'nor," said the confident lady, " do you want me to be 
larky or ladylike in this part ? " In an inspired moment 
the author said : " Oh ! be very ladylike, my dear ! " The 
result was indescribably comical. 

There is no more respectable type of a working woman 
than the trained dancer. Her wages range from eighteen to 
thirty shilliags a week, for which she must work hard. Her 
graduation is a laborious apprenticeship, from childhood — 
this system, effective in the achievement of technique, though 
it was imkind, and materially unjust, is making for desuetude. 
She must devote a part of each day to practice. At night 
she must report herself sober and competent. Shortly after 
eleven you may see her at Charing Cross waiting for the 
Brixton bus. To her, the Savoy is a shadow, and Romano's 
a romance. She is the sedate, painstaking artisan of the 
stage, with her sick clubs, and her boot dubs, and all the 

197 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

petty prudences of the working class. She sees in the " show 
girl " the incomprehensible creature of another world, who 
toils not neither does she spin — yet Solomon in all his glory 
was not so arrayed. The coming of the revue played havoc 
with the elderly syrens of the Alhambra and the Empire, 
many of whom had, indeed, prepared themselves for disaster 
by contracting matrimonial engagements with the stage 
carpenters or forming suburban connections as teachers of 
music and dancing. Even so, the disruption of the Savoy 
disturbed another interesting and characteristic commujiity. 
One esteemed lady boasted thirty years' service there. The 
chorus had always contented her — although, to be just, 
opportunity was, by this management more than by any 
other of its day, systematically made for the emancipation 
of talent. The case of the ballet girl is different. Before 
the eyes of the recruit are displayed the splendid earnings 
of Pavlova. As a matter of fact, the average is not one 
possible premiere danseuse, of any grade, in a thousand 
pupils. Say ten more may aspire to some lesser distinction. 
But as a matter of fact the pay of the English dancer is 
less than the reward of, any conscientious and competent 
exponent of a delightful art should be. It is still more 
shameful that the great Continental artists whom lately 
we have delighted to honour have been allowed to bring 
with them, at home wages, an entourage, which it is 
impossible to believe we could not have supplied here. 

When Chilperic was done at the Lyceum, with Herve the 
handsome composer for its hero, there was a chorus girl 
behind the throne in the capacity of a page who one night 
calmly put her foot on the arm of his Majesty's chair and 
busied herself with a shoelace. Herve audibly asked her 

19S 



CONCERNING CHORISTERS 

what she was doing. " Sure, I'm tying up my shoelace," 
was the pert response. There was a roar of laughter, the bit 
of " business " was repeated night after night, and the ob- 
trusive show girl became a famous actress as Jennie Lee. 
In the same chorus was Kate Phillips, who had flown to the 
stage from the intolerable cage of a governess. Her oppor- 
tunity came later, in Herman Merivale's White Pilgrim at 
the Court Theatre. A famous show girl of the seventies was 
Helen Barry, who had such beautiful hair that a play was 
"written around " it. That was in later years, when, in Happy 
Land, she had proved to have real abUity ; and she progressed 
tiU she was accepted as an actress of note. In Babil and 
Bijou, at the Lyceum, she led the Amazons; and on the 
occasion of a royal visit she was so determined that her hair 
should attract attention, she doubled the natural supply 
with a huge switch fastened to the back of her hehnet, which 
fell off in the procession. Picking it up in great confusion she 
replaced the unwieldy thing reversed, with her golden hair 
not now " hanging down Her back " but falling in profusion 
over her chest ! 

Robert Courtneidge is one of the few managers taking a 
real apd stimulant interest in his chorus. He maintains that 
every chorus girl has the contract of a prima donna in her 
reticule. In some aspects a martinet, he is always prospect- 
ing for genius, quick to see promise and eager to cultivate 
it. But then, in the years that have passed since he left a 
simple Scottish home to become a " super " at the Prince's 
Theatre, Manchester, he has seen — ^what not, in the way of 
vicissitude ? His first duty was to lay a carpet on the stage 
he afterwards made famous for the prettiness and fantastic 
himiour of his pantomimes, the combined erudition and 

199 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

humanity of his Shakespearean revivals. He has tramped 
and starved ; he has flmig every attribute to the wolves of 
adversity save a passion for the theatre and a kindness to 
its people. He is the furious apologist for musical comedy — 
as a gratefully responsive employment for the best in all 
the arts, and as a fine training-school for the histrionic 
aspirant, compelled by its many needs to become versatile 
and flexible. 

And indeed, the stage of to-day justifies him in a score 
of instances. When James Albery fell in love with pretty 
Mary Moore, and married her, she was a Gaiety girl. When 
Marie Etherington found that the concert platform was not 
fulfilling the ambitions she had cherished as an Academy 
student it was to commit herself to a long and exigeant 
apprenticeship in opera bouffe. Then Dorothy made Marie 
Tempest famous ; and Becky Sharpe made her more famous. 
Ellis Jeffries was a Savoy chorister. Constance Collier was 
a Gaiety girl, although with a family tree deep rooted in the 
stage, and luxuriant. Ethel Irving was another product of 
musical comedy and another bonne cMenne de chasse. Her 
father was a genuine Irving, and very angry to think that a 
beginner by the name of Brodribb should choose that of 
Irving. Latest addition to the list is that of Mabel Russell, 
whose performance as the girl crook in Within the Law set 
the town talking. 

When the traveller in Lucian gazed upon a memorial and 
asked its meaning he was told it had been erected in gratitude, 
by shipwrecked mariners, who had called on Neptune and 
been saved. " But what," said he, " of them that called on 
Neptune and were drowned ? " The popular favourites of 
the stage have a strange way of disappearing from the public 

200 



CONCERNING CHORISTERS 

view, sometimes to a happy and prosperous retirement. 
From this, a first night at the old home invariably entices 
them, heavy-footed husbands in attendance. These under- 
dressed veterans, with over-dressed hair, are a most interest- 
ing complement of a Gaiety premiere. Some time before his 
death Augustus Moore, in a reminiscent article, mentioned 
the name of a clever and beautiful girl, a star of comic opera 
in the seventies, and asked : " What has become of her ? " 
The answer came from the poor soul herself, her address a 
London workhouse. Moore at once busied himself to make 
a better arrangement. It was his nature to. But he was 
asked to desist. His correspondent was absolutely con- 
tented with her lot and conscious of the wisdom of restraint, 
I do not fill up sordid intervals, but I believe Moore found a 
modified pleasure in such periodical benefactions as were 
possible. 

I know of one Gaiety girl who is married to a magnate of 
the American market ; of another who runs a boarding-house 
at Chelsea ; of another who is contented on a cattle ranch in 
California, and of another who died a dipsomaniac in a New 
York penitentiary. Gaudeamus igitur, juvenes dum sumus ! 



201 



CHAPTER XXIX 



MUSICAL COMEDY 



The First Musical Comedy — In Town — How " Owen Hall " arrived 
— Collaboration according to Gilbert and Sullivan — The George 
Edwardes Method 

WHEN Gilbert and Sullivan wanted to differentiate 
their compositions from comic opera as it pre- 
vailed ere The Sorcerer, they coined a new phrase, 
" comedy-opera," and on the initiative of D'Oyly Carte, a 
musical and dramatic agent in a comparatively small way 
of business, for the first time, I believe, in the history of the 
stage, that wondrous thing, a syndicate, was formed — ^The 
Comedy Opera Company (Limited). The earlier Alhambra 
Company was different in constitution and intent. Within 
our own time another new phrase has become familiar — ^in 
its wake, syndicates innumerable. What was the first 
" musical comedy " ? I saw Morocco Bound cited the other 
day. Then My Sweetheart. Earlier still was a piece of this 
type which came to the Duke's Theatre, Holbom, in the 
seventies, Conrad and Lisette. I should say that Swift 
inspired the first musical comedy when he said : " What 
an odd, pretty thing a Newgate pastoral would make," 
and Gay responded with The Beggar's Opera. 

But for us, musical comedy certainly began with In Town. 
As to whose idea it was, authorities differ. It was eventually 
constructed by James T. Tanner, a silent, gipsy-looking man, 

202 



MUSICAL COMEDY 

with a passion for sea-fishing, who had been Van Biene's 
handy man, and who had estabhshed his skill as an author, 
or as a carpenter for authors, with an amazing melodrama 
called The Broken Melody. Tanner made no pretence to 
hterary skill, but he had the genius of raise en scene and of 
patient rehearsal, and for five and twenty years was in- 
dispensable to George Edwardes, who knew Tanner's worth 
and who had the most cynical assessment of the merely 
literary trimmers of his wares. Once at a rehearsal Edwardes 
wanted a few lines to emphasise a situation. He appealed 
languidly to half-a-dozen satellites ; then his eye lit on the 
author, a consciously important joumaHst. "Hullo, Mr 
So-and-so," he cried, " I wonder if you can help us ! " 

" Wropt in mystery " is the exact process of concocting a 
musical comedy. From time to time the conspirators quarrel, 

and when such gentlemen fall out There have been 

sordid revelations in the Law Courts ; in theatrical circles, 
recriminatory stories of stolen suggestions, of rejected manu- 
scripts from which the essential idea has been withdrawn, 
are common. Three of the men whose names are cut deep 
into the history of musical comedy did not speak for 
years ! 

In Town gripped the popular imagination at once. It 
brought into Bohemia a Cambridge professor with an in- 
comparable trick of verse, Adrian Ross ; and there he has 
remained. It gave Mr Arthur Roberts the most effective 
environment he has ever had ; and, incidentally, it launched 
a new style of silk hat on London, the Coddington, variations 
on which have ever since been popular with the " nuts." 

George Edwardes saw the eagerness with which the pubhc 
responded to In Town, and promptly marshalled his forces. 

203 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

One of his first recruits was " Owen Hall," who was actually 
James Davis, a solicitor, with a passion for intrusive journal- 
ism, and for gambling of all kinds — cards, horses, wild-cat 
mining shares, all " looked alike " to him. He graduated as 
dramatic critic of The Sporting Times over the signature, 
" Stalled Ox." He founded The Bat, and quickly went to 
gaol for an article on a race-horse trainer, whom he declaijed 
to be as "hot as the hinges of hell." When another writ 
was issued against him he retired to the south of France 
till things were smoothed out. And The Bat was transformed 
into The Hawk — ^which did nearly as much for Augustus 
Moore. Davis cherished a bitter hatred of Justice Hawkins 
to the end of his days, and never lost a chance of a gibe at 
that wonderful old man, who did not contemn all guerrilla 
journalists, after all. The pen-name " Owen Hall " was 
suggested to Davis by one of his three clever sisters as 
summing up his financial position, and he pimctiliously 
demanded its use, apropos his stage work. Refer to him as 
Davis, or try a little pimgency of criticism, and instantly a 
furious letter arrived. For, like every slashing journalist 
I have known, he was sensitive to agony himself. 

He cherished the belief that musical comedy began with 
his Gaiety Girl, and that his books, which included An Artist's 
Model, The Geisha and Florodora, were gold mines. From 
this point of view, shortly before his death, when troubles 
beset him, he sought to float himself as a limited liability 
company, for the production of musical comedy books, 
arraying magnificent figures of potential profits. It was a 
" personal security " with a vengeance. In truth, Davis's 
strong point was an insolent witticism, which tickled the 
jaded palate, and gave the censor many a bad quarter of ah 

204 




H. G. HiBBERT 
Carioriure by A. S. Forrest 



MUSICAL COMEDY 

hour. That precious phrase, " the virtuous end of Regent 
Street," was his. 

Meanwhile a new star arose in the musical comedy firma- 
ment, and has never ceased to shine. Captain Basil Hood, 
a yoimg soldier who had tentatively written a one-act play 
for Augustus Harris, and sketched a ballet for the Empire, 
found that the completion of Gentleman Joe engrossed him 
to the jeopardy of his future in the army, so he sent in his 
papers, though it meant the sacrifice of a pension. He has 
never regretted the step. Captain Hood is unique in that he 
prepares a plot, writes dialogue and lyrics — ^all with a work- 
manlike and sympathetic consciousness of the music to come 
— and supervises the production, as Gilbert did. He cites his 
friend and collaborator. Sir Arthur Sullivan, who said : " The 
man who asks, ' Did you take your music to Gilbert, or did 
Gilbert bring his book to you ? ' is a damned fool ; though 
we did do a little revision together, naturally." 

George Edwardes had this important distinction among 
managers, who are apt to be persons of one idea ; or to have a 
supine belief that they can go on repeating one success. He 
saw that musical comedy must differ from itself in time, 
just as it had needed to differ from the effete Gaiety burlesque. 
And so there was a constant process of development and 
careful variation in the pieces done to his commission. 
He seemed to have become dangerously set at last in his 
devotion to the Viennese school. A profit of, say, two 
hundred and fifty thousand pounds, on The Merry Widow, 
on the most liberally experimental disposition, would have 
such a tendency. But there came a sudden change. One 
of the things we shall never know is the loss to English 
speculators of capital invested in undelivered or now 

205 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

unpracticable Viennese and German music at the time 
of the war outbreak. For the traffic had swelled to 
millions. 

Mr George Dance, past master in provincial pantomime, 
made his own corner in musical comedy. He saw that the 
old nursery tales had still the most vitality ; and his standard 
of humour was H. J. Byron's, who, when it was pointed out 
to him that he was employing a joke a second time, said : 
"Used it to get a laugh?" " Oh yes, "was the reply. "Then 
in it goes again," said the experienced dramatist. What was 
The Lady Slavey but our old friend Cinderella ? And what 
should The Lady Slavey do but set up Mr William Greet and 
Mr Englebach in business and furnish incongruous capital 
for the production of The Sign of the Cross. And again, The 
Gay Parisienne made a manager of Mr Edward Laurillard — 
in time to come, the impresario of Potash and Perlmutter, of 
On Trial, and of the New Gaiety. And again The Chinese 
Honeymoon established a third important impresario, Mr 
Frank Curzon. 



206 



CHAPTER XXX 

THE SALARIES OF CEIEBKITIES 

Haxry Lauder's Figure — Stage Stars in Variety — What Premiere 
Danseuses earn — Red-nosed Comedians' Reward 

WHEN Alfred Bunn, then manager of Drury Lane 
Theatre, demurred to old Farren's demands in 
the matter of salary, the actor retorted: "When 
there is only one cock salmon in the market, you must pay 
the price. I am the cock salmon." This seemed to settle 
the question of artists' salaries, for all time. And yet the 
parrot cry of chairmen, apologising to shareholders in music 
hall companies for diminishing dividends, or for none, is still 
the " extortions " of the performer. The real trouble is that 
so few music hall " magnates " of to-day know a cock salmon 
when they see one. Easily deceived in this respect, they 
enter into reckless competition, with others of their kind, for 
spurious ware, and so they are committed to immense, un- 
profitable outlay. There are, no doubt, many worn-out, and 
even originally worthless, artists drawing large salaries and 
contracted to do so for years to come. But the ignorance 
and folly of their employers cannot fairly be construed into 
their " extortion." 

Then there is the American market. Its demand for 
English performers of certain kinds is always growing, and 
the conditions of the business of popular entertaioment over 
there are such that its entrepreneurs can afford to pay salaries 

207 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

far beyond the possibilities of the English market, and still 
make handsome profits. Harry Lauder supplies a case in 
point. His demand is now for a minimum five hundred 
pounds a week. He was offered eight himdred pounds a 
week for a special engagement at the Empire, and declined 
it. Few Enghsh variety theatres could pay such a salary 
— ^none, indeed, to maintain a well-balanced programme. 
But America eagerly offers Mr Lauder that much, and more. 
None can blame him for taking his good where he finds it. 

Leaving aside these artificial prices, and considering the 
market at large, the expert observer is confronted by an 
acutely interesting situation. Never in its history was the 
variety stage in a state of so much imcertainty. The divid- 
ing line, once so clear and rigid, between theatre and music 
hall, has gone. The programmes at some of our vast variety 
theatres are made up as to one-half, or even two-thirds, of 
dramatic performances. In the second and third rate halls 
one finds so-styled ' ' revues. ' ' At first sight he is constrained 
to wonder what has become of the old-style music h^U pro- 
fessional. A recent programme at the London Coliseum in- 
cluded no more than two names that would at one time have 
been at all suggestive of the music hall. The salary list, at 
this juncture, exceeded two thousand poimds weekly ! But 
the London Colisemn, with its seating capacity of three 
thousand and upwards, and its two performances daily, is able 
to withstand such a draft on its exchequer. Other houses 
cannot. The Empire was lately employing four artists whose 
combined salaries nearly totalled a thousand pounds per 
week ; but the rest certainly did not absorb a second 
thousand. 

Occasionally a huge salary is paid merely to procure an 

208 



THE SALARIES OF CELEBRITIES 

advertisement. This, however, is an outlay that soon spends 
its force. A few years ago there was a dead set on the part of 
the music hall managers at the distinguished favourites of 
the " regular " stage, some of whom had affected an attitude 
of extreme superiority. Money told its tale. With three 
exceptions, every important actor and actress of the day 
has now lined up with the Robeys, the Chirgwins and 
the Consuls. Some sensational engagements of theatrical 
celebrities have, to be sure, been tragical failures in every 
aspect save that of advertisement for the procurer, and are 
not likely to be repeated. 

Probably the largest fee paid was to Sarah Bernhardt for 
her first appearance at the London Coliseum — ^namely, a 
thousand pounds, for her personal services, apart from the 
salaries of her company and the other expenses. Sir George 
Alexander and Sir Herbert Tree had seven hundred and fifty 
pounds at the Palace. Miss Marie Tempest had five hundred 
poimds at the London Hippodrome. Mr Seymour Hicks, 
Mr Charles Hawtrey and Mr Arthur Bourchier command from 
two hundred and fifty to three hundred and fifty pounds, 
in circumstances. 

Some dancers now receive very large salaries. At the 
Alhambra in the old days twenty-five pounds a week was 
considered a large fee. Genee came to the Empire for fifteen 
pounds a week, and for a long time was contented with thirty ; 
toward the end of her time there she had seventy. Then 
came the boom. Not to be precise, the four most prominent 
dancers of the day range from two hundred and fifty to 
seven hundred and fifty poimds a week. Pavlova has, in 
America, soared away from the topmost figure. 

Although the form of the music hall programme has 
o 209 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

changed, its former constituents have not been destroyed. 
Many of them have been affiliated to the revue, and the 
tendency has been to " better themselves " in the process, 
while a very large number of imdistinguished but useful 
artists have found lucrative employment as "fiU-ups" of 
moving picture programmes. One result of the war has been 
to deplete the music hall stage of acrobats. The few im- 
portant troupes available at this juncture are American. 
The odd thing is that the earliest acrobat and gymnast — 
indigenous to the fair, transplanted to the circus, then to the 
music hall, was English, though he believed it necessary to 
affect outrageous foreign names. Then France got a vogue 
with Leotard and Blondin. Then came Germany. All these 
nations — ^Italy too^ — ^made a call, and a successful call, on 
their sons at the outbreak of war. Once an acrobatic troupe 
of real distinction would command as much as a hundred 
pounds a week, but this sum had possibly to be divided 
among a nimierous party. But what in the profession are 
known as " diunb shows " have lost much of their attractive- 
ness, while the mere risk of life is a drug in the market. You 
can get an effective parachute descent for as little as thirty 
shillings, a perilous high dive for five poimds a week, and 
a tight-rope walk at a great elevation for the same sum.. 

As for " music hall " salaries, as the layman will under- 
stand the term, there has certainly been a great increase 
during the past ten years ; but there has not been a sudden 
leap from figures of extreme modesty to figures of great 
magnitude, as some would ejEfectively contrast it. From the 
outset the popular favourite has been generously rewarded. 
Morton paid Sam Cowell sixty and even eighty poimds a week 
at the Canterbury in the fifties. John Hollingshead paid 

210 



THE SALARIES OF CELEBRITIES 

Leotard one hundred and eighty pounds a week at the 
Alhambra in the sixties. Blondin got a hundred pounds an 
ascent, but accepted a reduction on the rare occasions when 
he appeared nightly in a music hall. It used to be a favourite 
amusement of the Guardsmen whom Ouida loved to idealise 
to travel pickaback with Blondin across his rope. But the 
authorities at length forbade this. Archibald Nagel, one of 
the Alhambra directors, made a bet that he would cross 
and return with Blondin. He had a fit of nerves half-way, 
and Blondin grimly remarked that one of them seemed 
likely to fall. Nagel steadied himself, and was safely landed 
on the platform, but he swore that had his wager been a 
thousand pounds instead of five he would not make the 
return journey. Leonati, the spiral ascensionist, had two 
hundred pounds for six ascents at North Woolwich Gardens 
five and thirty years ago. Lulu received a hundred poxmds 
a week. Zazel's flight from the cannon at the Westminster 
Aquarium yielded one hundred and twenty pounds, but not 
to Zazel, who probably got a five-pound note. 

These are, no doubt, exceptional instances. Chance put in 
my way the pay sheet for several years, in the early sixties, 
of a Manchester music hall — ^the best of its day. The total 
outlay averaged less than fifty pounds a week. To the fact 
that George Leyboume, Fred Coyne and Nelly Power earned 
no more than four pounds a week one must not attach great 
importance, for these artists were at an early stage in their 
careers. But a combination of Charles Bernard and the Sisters 
Brougham, operatic artists highly esteemed at the Canter- 
bury, the Vokes Family (not long previously the Vokes 
Children), and the John Lauri Troupe of ballet dancers and 
pantomimists at twelve pomids a week, ten pounds a week 

211 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

and sixteen pounds a week respectively, supply figures that 
might be multiplied at least by five to-day. Miss Georgina 
Smithson is another four-pound-a-week artist in my 
Manchester list. At her best, some years later, she com- 
manded forty pounds a week for appearances at two 
London halls nightly. So did Louie Sherrington and Annie 
Adams, competing " serio-comic " singers of that time. I 
suppose we might treble all to day. The only considerable 
salary at Manchester was that of " Young Blondin " at 
twenty pounds a week for two weeks. 

Oddly enough the " Great " Macdermott was not highly 
paid in the hour of his supreme triumph. When he sang We 
Don't Want to Fight, at the London Pavilion, his salary was 
ten pounds a week, spontaneously increased to twenty 
pounds a week — ^which was his price per " turn " for many 
years to come. In the provinces his salary was sixty poimds 
a week. He got a hundred and sixty pounds for a Man- 
chester pantomime. The two Macs, popular favourites of 
this time, would usually share fifty pounds a week. There 
were several Macs, some of whom are dead. One was lately 
discovered in a shoeblack, near Tottenham Court Road. 

I have the figures supplied to me, with many others here 
cited, by the late Hugh Jay Didcott, of an important West 
End music hall twenty-five years ago. The progranune 
contains the names of thirty artists. There is nothing in the 
nature of a sketch or set piece — all individual performers, 
including Bessie Bellwood at twenty-five pounds, Jenny Hill 
at thirty pounds, Harry Randall at twenty-five pounds, 
Macdermott at thirty poimds, and so on. Most of these 
artists were appearing at three, four and even five music halls 
in central and suburban London each night. This practice, 

212 



THE SALARIES OF CELEBRITIES 

which caused much trouble and discussion as to its con- 
ditions and as to the proper terms at the time of the music 
hall strike, and subsequent proceedings before the Board 
of Trade arbitrator, has nearly fallen into disuse during 
the past few years. When Mr Albert Chevalier had just 
estabUshed himself as a music hall singer in the early 
nineties, he contentedly worked three " turns " nightly for 
thirty-six pounds. Shortly he went on a recital tour, and 
made as much as four himdred and fifty pounds a week. 
This, incidentally, refutes a statement often made by music 
hall magnates that music hall artists are not worth the 
salaries they demand. And, of course, the music hall 
artist may have an entirely erroneous opiaion as to the 
worth of the music hall magnate ! 

It is significant that no factor of the music hall programme 
has maintained his price so steadily as the " red-nosed 
comedian." Little Tich commands two hundred and fifty 
pounds a week, but then, he is desperately fastidious as to 
when and where and how he will work. Mr George Robey 
is at least a two-hundred-poundis-a-week man. He has 
had twice that fee, in special circumstances. Mr Eugene 
Stratton and Mr R. G. Knowles have received two hundred 
pounds on occasion. There are many performers little known 
to West End audiences who have an extraordinary vogue in 
the subiurbs and the provinces — two sisters, still in their 
teens, doing a milange of mimicry and song, and other 
girls working on similar lines, a diminutive comedian and 
his wife doing pert dialogues, all exceed a hundred pounds 
a week. 

Miss Margaret Cooper's memory must often revert to the 
days when a guinea or two for a drawing-room entertainment 

213 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

was a welcome addition to her earnings as a music teacher, 
for she has advanced to two hundred and fifty poimds a week 
in the meanwhile. Cecilia Loftus's mimicry has commanded 
two hundred and fifty poimds a week. Yvette Guilbert's 
sensational debut at the Empire was made in fulfilment of a 
contract assuring her of three himdred poimds a week. Social 
engagements and extra performances no doubt increased 
this greatly. Long ago, we accepted Yvette en famille. So 
she has to be contented with a modest two hundred pounds 
a week. Miss Vesta Tilley's price has reached three hundred 
and fifty pounds a week. Miss Ada Reeve runs in the 
neighbourhood of two himdred and fifty pounds a week 
and Miss Marie Lloyd ranges from one hundred and fifty 
pounds a week upwards, according to circumstances. 

All these prices are to be accepted subject to the fluctua- 
tions of the market — certaialy not as a contract to supply the 
article. And let no young woman comfortably earning 
thirty shillings a week at a type machine see temptation in 
the figures I have marshalled. 



214 



CHAPTER XXXI 



MEMOEABLE PRODUCTIONS 



Gamblers in Management — Expenses and Earnings of West End 
Theatres — The Romance of Charley's' Aunt — ^The Brave Days 
of Opera BoufEe — Irving's Extravagance — The Merry Widow 

ONE of the lessons learned by the theatrical manager 
from the war is that his expenditure on the pro- 
duction of plays, but especially of musical comedy, 
had become outrageous, unremunerative and ineffectual. 
When the curtain rose on one of last year's productions 
it represented a capital outlay of rather more than ten 
thousand pounds — there is, of course, a point in accountancy 
at which capital expenditure ceases, and weekly income and 
outgoing is reckoned with. In this case, part of the ten 
thousand pounds was represented by the somewhile idle 
theatre, and part by the preliminary advertising on that 
prodigal scale which has become a convention of the theatre. 
But some seven thousand pounds represented the cost of 
the scenery and the dresses. The piece achieved merely a 
succes d'estime. Had it been a veritable triimiph it could 
hardly have paid ; for, with large salaries to meet, a consider- 
able rent, and the advertising campaign continued, the 
weekly margin of possible profit was so small that many 
months must have elapsed ere the initial outlay was over- 
taken. And nothing declines in value so precipitously as 
stage fabric declines. Some of the revivals, and more modest 

215 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

productions, of war time have proved that the pubUc is 
contented with less extravagant shows — finds more time 
to consider therein the legitimate attractions of the drama, 
not being distracted by futile splendour. From other 
points of view, which do not now concern me, the play 
capable of a moderate success, but discarded, because it 
does not involve an immoderate outlay, and therefore an 
immoderate gain — or loss — ^is potentially most important in 
the development of a national drama. 

Competition is not solely responsible for prodigal ex- 
penditure. The spirit of gambling in the commerce of the 
stage is, in all its phases, mischievous. But the phases differ. 
A gambler may be expert and judicious in his risks ; or he 
may be extra daring in the consciousness that he is playing 
with other people's money ; or he may be just a reckless 
fool. All these tjrpes are to be found among theatrical 
managers. And there is another element, which it is not 
convenient to discuss, but which sometimes deep-dyes, and 
nearly always tinges, theatrical enterprise. 

If a graduate in commercial business, with a single-hearted 
love of the drama (not of its exponents) and a sense of 
its recreative, as well as of its artistic and moral, responsi- 
bilities, should ever address himself, his own capital, and 
industry, and routine, to the conduct of a London theatre, 
controlling, not controlled by his " experts," the result would 
be interesting, and almost certainly a financial success of 
great magnitude. There is hardly a theatre in respect of 
which it would not be possible for such a man to effect an 
inmiense saving — on almost every commodity used, and 
probably on much of the artistic detail. In intimate 
theatrical circles the names of actors and managers are 

3l6 



MEMORABLE PRODUCTIONS 

glibly mentioned whose careers have cost their fatuous 
financial supporters hundreds of thousands of pounds. 
There is not an industry in the world of which the conditions 
are so fatally artificial. There is not a theatrical purveyor, 
fipom the great costumier to the bill sticker, who would not 
willingly deal at half his now accustomed rates if he could 
work on normal conditions, for certain and prompt payment. 
Even where he is consciously dealing with an honest and 
dependable customer, his perfectly intelligible disposition 
is to impose a contribution to his sinking fund against the 
others. One's observation is, certainly, that the actor 
manager, from Garrick onwards, has had the most beneficent 
influence on the stage. But of actor managers, the trades- 
man masquerading as an actor has been more effective 
than the actor masquerading as a tradesman. The 
tradesman qua tradesman has never been fairly tested. 

Dependable figures of theatrical commerce are very hard 
to get. There are the balance sheets of limited liability 
companies, but their statements are studiously general. 
There are occasional bankruptcies, the revelations of which 
are instructive. And that ideally invaluable, but, in practice, 
often preposterous person, the press agent, circulates some 
wonderful figures. We were told lately that four revues 
" represented an outlay of two hundred thousand pounds." 
Pantomimes have been put down as costing twenty thousand 
poimds. 

Now it is hard to know how a person of any experience, 
and a sense of economy, can spend more than five thousand 
pounds on the preparation of a musical comedy or revue, 
or more than ten thousand poimds on a pantomime. The 
provincial manager is apt to be the more discreet. Some very 

217 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

fine pantomimes have been done in the provinces for a 
thousand pounds, and some very smart revues have been 
sent on tour for considerably less. Of course, they have 
reproduced London designs, and so saved one expense, and 
many experiments. 

How is the money to come back ? Drury Lane is capable 
of holding upwards of five hundred pounds a performance, 
and so of taking a thousand pounds a day during the first 
few weeks of pantomime. But this is a unique instance. 
The London theatres capable of taking three hundred pounds 
a performance are very few. I doubt if the average earning 
capacity of all the West End theatres exceeds two hundred 
pounds a performance. The very much larger earnings of 
the American theatres are due to an entirely different dis- 
position of the seats. There they give up nothing like the 
space we do here to seats at prices equivalent to two shillings 
and one shilling. Frohman, true to his policy, never sought 
to impose this plan on London ; but Frohman enormously 
increased the difficulties of English managers by his reckless 
inflation of actors' salaries and his princely treatment of 
authors. Here is an instance : a young actor at the St 
James's Theatre, whose not inadequate salary there was 
eight pounds a week, attracted him. Frohman at once 
tendered a contract for a term of years at forty pounds a 
week for London, sixty pounds a week for America ! 

Rent is one of the most serious problems of the London 
manager. Years ago a hundred pounds a week was a common 
figure. One of the first of the modern houses, the Lyric, 
was leased to Horace Sedger for a term, at six thousand five 
hundred pounds a year. This, probably, began the upward 
trend. Meanwhile a figure as high as ten thousand pounds 

218 



MEMORABLE PRODUCTIONS 

a year has been reached — quite ridiculous, and an intolerable 
burden on a legitimate enterprise. The explanation is in 
many cases an accumulation of sub-leases, each one carrying 
a profit rental. There are cases in which an ephemeral 
tenant has been called upon to pay five times the rental 
which satisfied the original tenant. Some half-a-dozen 
original leases are on the eve of completion, and so it may be 
that an important revision of theatre rentals as between 
" principals only "is at hand. Its effect will be salutary. 
One fairly desirable West End house was lately on offer for 
twenty-one years at a rental of a hundred and fifty pounds 
a week. 

Sometimes the rental includes the refreshment bars ; but 
not always. This is a most important detail. Augustus 
Harris frankly recorded that the thousand poimds cash 
which he secured for twelve months' sub-lease of the Drury 
Lane bars formed his original capital. The bars of a London 
theatre, at a fairly prosperous time, are worth from thirty 
to forty poiuids a week. 

Charley's Aunt suppHes one of the romances of the stage. 
For its production, at the Royalty Theatre, a thousand 
pounds was guaranteed by a capitalist who was actually 
called upon to find no more than six hundred pounds. This, 
it transpired, he borrowed, piecemeal, from a money-lender at 
sixty per cent ! The run of the play at the Globe is historic. 
The rent of the theatre was seventy pounds a week. Ex- 
cluding Penley, the largest salary paid was twelve pounds a 
week. There were as many as twenty companies duplicating 
performances aU over the world, and half a million of money 
is not a wild estimate of the eventual earnings of the farce. 
The three persons among whom the profits were originally 

219 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

shared all died poor, but when, a year or two ago, the 
" rights " reverted to the family of the late Brandon Thomas, 
they were reckoned to be worth a steady two thousand 
pounds a year still. 

Another instance of a play produced at a moderate cost 
and achieving immense results is Sweet Lavender. Terry is 
understood to have made fifty thousand pounds out of this 
play. He might have made more, but he hesitated so long 
as to the acquisition of the provincial rights that he lost 
them. Terry was a man of large charities and small re- 
servations. During the run of Tfie Times, there was a 
bitter feud between Fanny Brough and another actress, 
whom Miss Brough charged with habitually spilling the 
milk, during their afternoon tea scene, and so endangering a 
gown, bought, of course, at her own expense. Miss Brough 
at length took her grievance to Terry. " God bless my soul," 
he cried, " you don't mean to tell me that Brickwell is 
giving you real milk! " The suggested economy is almost 
equal to that of one of our most engaging actress-managers — 
with a very clear eye on business. A canary was employed in 
a production. The property man's weekly bill included two- 
pence for bird seed. It was returned with a note : " Query : 
Bulk cost of bird seed ? Usual allowance for normal bird ? 
Also : get quotations for artificial birds, rigid and with 
mechanical movements." 

There seemed to be some magic influence in the transfer 
of a play to the Globe, as witness again Les Cloches de Corne- 
ville, originally produced at the Folly, and The Private 
Secretary, originally produced at the Prince of Wales's Theatre. 
Les Cloches de Corneville was a rank failure at the El Dorado 
in Paris — ^though Canton, its owner, managed to encuorage it 

220 



MEMORABLE PRODUCTIONS 

into a success elsewhere. Alexander Henderson and H. B. 
Famie conunitted themselves to its production here, but 
believed it to be foredoomed to failure. They forbade 
Alias the costumier any serious outlay, and furiously up- 
braided him when they found that the bills had run up to 
nearly four hundred pounds. They cast Shiel Barry as 
Gaspard quite casually — ^he was an Irish character actor 
who, on his part, had no faith in his possibilities, and took 
the precaution of losing his voice on the eve of the produc- 
tion. He filled himself with every nostrum chemists could 
supply, but, fortunately, did not overcome his hoarseness. 
Henderson and Famie devoted themselves to one of their 
periodical quarrels, and were not in the theatre when the 
curtain fell. They were hurriedly summoned, and when, as 
they approached, they heard thimders of applause, thought 
the audience was " guying " the piece, and exchanged a 
satisfied " I told you so." For twenty years Les Cloches de 
Corneville was played somewhere sans cesse ; but, for some 
reason, Planquette never drew fees on the English perform- 
ance. Long before his death he estimated his loss under 
this head at forty thousand pounds. 

When Les Cloches de Corneville was transferred to the 
Globe it was re-dressed, but even then, at one-fifth the cost 
a modem manager would consider to be essential. My old 
friend Alias tells me that an expenditure of from a 
thousand to fifteen hundred pounds was considered 
ample in the brave days of opera bouffe, and he, of 
course, is the epitome of its history, from La Fille de 
Madame Angot onward. It is one of the dear incongruities 
of London that the fripperies of the modem stage should be 
fashioned in what was once a convent, while the family life 

221 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

of the Aliases, in its old-Parisian circumstance, should touch 
nearly the last refuge of Jeanne du Barry. 

Charles Alias, the son of a French surgeon, refused to 
become what he called a butcher. His angry parent bade 
him go to London and " sell socks," a phrase of contempt for 
tradesmen. Seeing the name of Clodoche on the bills of the 
Philharmonic Theatre, Islington, the lonely Alias addressed 
himself to a compatriot, formed a friendship that long 
endured, and embarked upon the career he has so adorned. 

Clodoche originated the dance we know as the cancan. It 
has been described as a development of the Carmagnole, 
but this description is not quite correct. Clodoche's fan- 
tastic leaps were as nearly original as a modem dance may 
be. He was a finely skilled carver of wood, for decorative 
purposes, mostly of the human figure. He frequented the 
Opera balls with a party of friends, and their dances created 
so great a sensation that the proceedings would be stopped 
for their special performance, wealthy patrons of the function 
flinging them handsome gifts. Eventually, Clodoche became 
a professional dancer. The indecency of the dance, which 
Mademoiselle Finette first performed in London, began when 
women, or men dressed as women, addressed themselves to 
an increase of its antics. 

Another associate of Alias was Phil May, introduced to 
him as a needy, erratic, but very promising artist, by Lionel 
Brough. May was added to the staff, and, as a precaution, 
kept in the house. His characteristics soon developed, and 
one day Alias, urgently desiring a sketch, surreptitiously re- 
moved Phil's clothes from his room, sent him up his break- 
fast and some drawing paper, locked the door and betook 
himself to the Avenue Theatre. During an interval of the 

222 



MEMORABLE PRODUCTIONS 

rehearsals there was an adjoununent to Romano's, where 
May was found, in a Henry VIII. gaberdine, velvet slippers 
and so forth, calmly sipping his third aperitif. " Good God," 
cried Alias, " and have you made me ridiculous by walking 
here like that ? " Said the delinquent : " Walking, governor ? 
Oh no ! The cabman's waiting outside. Better pay him." 

Heavy expenditure on productions is not altogether a 
modem custom. Charles Kean claimed, in one of his state- 
ments to the public, to have expended fifty thousand pounds 
in a single season ! Dion Boucicault squandered eleven 
thousand pounds of Lord Londesborough's money on BMl 
and Bijou, and bolted to America on the eve of the produc- 
tion. BoUed lobsters, swimming complacently in the deep 
sea, were a memorable feature thereof. Nothing so costly 
and disastrous occurred in London till the Cinderella panto- 
mime, which Charles Harris did at His Majesty's, in 1889-1890. 
He had quarrelled with his brother Augustus, and meant to 
ruin Drury Lane at any cost. The result was, instead, bank- 
ruptcy in five minutes, and a world scandal — ^meetings of 
starving supers, a public subscription and the devil (but 
nobody else) to pay. 

Boucicault was probably the first author to receive really 
enormous fees — ^but he " produced " his plays, acted in them, 
took a tithe of the receipts under all headings, and money 
ran through his fingers in tens of thousands. He received 
three thousand pounds for altering, and adding his name to, 
the American version of Ri-p Van Winkle, for reproduction 
by Joseph Jefferson at the Adelphi Theatre. He is said to 
have made as much as forty thousand pounds in a year. 

Fortunes have been made out of melodrama more often, 
I imagine, by their entrepreneurs than by their authors, for 

223 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

various reasons. When Paul Meritt -WTote New Babylon he 
made a truculent demand for " two htmdred poimds or 
nothing." Charles Wilmot thought to compromise by offer- 
ing a share, and the sum divisible at a not advanced stage 
in the history of the play was sixty thousand pounds. This 
was not Wilmot's only imfortunate experience of the chance 
element in theatrical adventure. He disliked the idea of 
insurance. He had the Duke's Theatre burned down once, 
the Philharmonic — or the Grand — Theatre burned down 
twice. Then, he insured heavily, and spent the rest of his 
life in paying unrequited premiums. 

There are few things so tragical as the murder of a good 
story. Paul Meritt did not say, when Carlyle died : " Another 
of us gone," but he did say, when Victor Hugo died : 
" Another gap in our ranks. " Meritt was a man of immense 
bulk, and had the peevish consciousness of it, not imcommon. 
I once surprised him copying his letters — ^he was a punctilious 
and legible correspondent — by the obvious process of sitting 
on the letter book. He was — could one say — covered with 
confusion, and begged that the incident might be forgotten. 
He habitually protested that he ate nothing ; but Pettitt 
used to tell a story of Meritt and baked sheeps' heads 
delightedly discovered at an East End eating-house which 
made a fool of Gargamelle and the tripe. 

Sir John Hare once described Irving as " the most extra- 
vagant manager that ever put his careless signature to a 
cheque." So, no doubt, he was. His sole thought in regard 
to the material of the Lycetim productions was to get the 
best, in fulfilment of the specifications of the greatest 
authorities available, who had no knowledge of the limita- 
tions of the theatre Bram Stoker has put it on record that 

224 



MEMORABLE PRODUCTIONS 

the capital expenditure on the Lyceum stage during his term 
of management was two hundred thousand pounds. These 
are heroic figures, and authentic, of course. One would be 
interested in particulars. I believe that the Lyceum Faust 
cost more than ten thousand pounds. There was more 
reason for an almost exactly similar expenditure on the 
Empire ballet. At His Majesty's, an adequate stage setting 
is wont to be secured for an expenditure of about three 
thousand pounds. This would include the Faust production. 
But His Majesty's employs an acute business brain as well 
as a geniiis. 

We reach sensible, business figures of the Lyceum when 
we learn from Mr Stoker that after a fire had destroyed 
thirty thousand pounds' worth of stores, it was found 
possible to duphcate five essential productions for eleven 
thousand poimds. To anyone with a knowledge of Irving's 
method this is a plain tale. He would have a costly 
dress made for his consideration, and reject it. He would 
have a second, and a third submitted — ^and finally make up 
his mind to the first, lightly committing the others to stock. 

I recall few things more interesting than a week of wander- 
ing, with Irving's sanction, among the accumulated scenic 
stores of the Lyceum. And the memory was never so 
poignant as when I made a second tour of the famous old 
theatre, from " grid " to cellar, with Tom Barrasford when he 
was accorded proud possession of the Lyceiun, for transforma- 
tion into a music hall, after the sale by auction of all its 
paraphernalia, in many instances of deeply historic interest, 
at prices so ridiculous as even to o'ercrow the humour of the 
newspaper reporters. Let me pause to pay a tribute to 
Tom Barrasford's memory. His origin was so humble that, 
p 225 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

if he knew it, he never disclosed it. He had spent his youth 
among the flotsam and jetsam of the Tyneside, on the out- 
skirts of race-courses, in " sing-songs." His adaptativeness 
was immense. He had the bookmaker's deftness at figures. 
He could speak a little French, a little German, talk thieves' 
slang with his fingers, sing, dance, judge men and horses to 
a nicety — ^he mastered most things, always excepting the rudi- 
ments of English grammar. But he was the very apostle of 
popular recreation. It was a matter of sincere delight to him 
to feel that in his many music halls he was affording innocent 
pleasure to a hundred thousand people at once. He would 
unexpectedly march, in this mood a very martinet, through 
any of his houses, and a speck of dirt on the brass of the 
door-plate, or in the humour of a himdred-guinea comedian, 
raised a storm of rage. 

Arnott, dead now, as every important member of Irving's 
expert, affectionate and passionately loyal entourage is dead, 
was the autocrat of the Lyceum " property room," which 
began in the old drawing-room of Madame Vestris, but spread 
to the remotest comer of the theatre. The accumulation 
was immense and fascinating. Many of the ingenious 
resorts of that time have been rendered unnecessary by 
modern invention and discovery. But a consciousness of 
the achievements of modem science only increases one's 
admiration for the tireless painstaking of the Lyceum. 

More interesting to us to-day are such items as forty suits 
of chain mail, procured at an immense cost, for Lear. It was 
found that the most stalwart " super " could not move in one, 
so silvered fishing net was substituted. The public was none 
the wiser and none the worse, but Irving was needlessly 
anxious that the counterfeit should not be revealed. For 

226 



MEMORABLE PRODUCTIONS 

Wolsey's robes a commission was dispatched to Rome, to 
get the very shade of silk. For Faust an organ was installed, 
and a peal of beHs, both at a great cost. A spinning-wheel 
of the period was procured from Nuremberg for Ellen Terry, 
who could not work it, so Arnott had to make a simple wheel, 
at a cost of a few shillings. In The Lyons Mail a valise is 
hastily slit, and banknotes torn out by impetuous fingers. 
Bank of France notes, again, carefully of the period, were 
printed on the proper paper, so that if one or two should be 
carried by the stage draughts into the stalls the illusion was 
unbroken. Bank of England notes were needed for The Iron 
Chest, but in this case the authorities forbade an exact 
reproduction. In The Lyons Mail, again, the aid of a well- 
known conjurer was invoked for the glasses out of which 
Dubosc appeared to drink such vast quantities of brandy. 

On the eve of a great production, when everybody had been 
rehearsed to utter weariness, Irving would dismiss, and, 
alone untired, would say quietly : " Now, Arnott ! You and 
I will have our run through." Then he would seat himself 
in the centre of the stage, and minutely inspect all the 
details, to a gaiter button. " There was hell," said Arnott 
with a grin, " because a bit of solder had been used in some 
of them Cromwell suits of armour, where Mr Seymour Lucas 
had specified rivets." I doubt if Arnott reaUy said of an 
important production, summarising the titled authorities 
associated in it : " Three blooming knights — ^and, that's 
what I give it." Terriss was the only man who ever dared 
retort. Once he had glibly run off a few lines of Shakespeare 
— ^repeatedly and persistently in his own way. "Terriss, 
Terriss ! My boy ! What do those lines mean to yx)u ? " 
said "the Chief" Terriss stared blankly. "What do they 

227 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

mean ? What — do — ^they — ^mean ? Oh ! governor ! I say ! 
Come off it ! " 

George Edwardes probably knew as much of the ups 
and downs of theatrical management as any man — more 
than will ever be revealed. He discarded Dorothy as a failure, 
and sold it, stock, lock and barrel, to " Jack " Leslie for a 
thousand pounds. Leslie made sixty thousand pounds out 
of this strange conglomeration of a " book " written for one 
opera — ^not original in idea at that — music composed for 
another, and an interpolated ballad, Queen of My Heart, 
not intended for either but for a Christy Minstrel show ! 
Leslie ruined himself — over Dorothy — lived for years in 
exile, and came home to die in poverty. In a few years 
The Chinese Honeymoon made a new record for a musical 
play. It must have run to a himdred thousand pounds. 
And then The Merry Widow put them all in the shade 
— even as regards England alone. What her earnings were 
in America, and on the Continent, none could compute. 
What I do know is, that her near rival. The Waltz Dream, 
yielded Leo Fall, not long before a musical director at the 
German equivalent of five pounds a month, composer's fees 
to the amount of sixty thousand pounds. But, whatever 
The Merry Widow made, the figures have certainly been 
equalled in amount by the losses of those reckless and stupid 
managers who saw no objective but to secure "another 
Merry Widow." As a receptacle for the fortunes of the 
foohsh, at any rate, the theatre is certainly a bottomless pit. 



228 



CHAPTER XXXII 

A STUDY IN STOLL 

Manager at Thirteen — Leybourne's Last Days — The Fantastic Frock 
Coat — Lessons in French — Literary Efforts 

IN 1880, a youngster stDl somewhat short of fourteen 
years was hastily summoned from school to make what 
show he could in the room of his step-father, deceased. 
That is thirty-five years ago ; and, in the meanwhile, Oswald 
StoU has not taken a definite holiday. He has personally 
initiated twenty music halls. He is the effective manager 
of thirty-five; and he is interested in upwards of sixty. 
The birthplace of this vast enterprise is now a tailor's shop, in 
Liverpool. In 1845 it was the Royal Parthenon Assembly 
Rooms — ^the casual home of the Iowa Indians, and Bianchi's 
Waxworks. A year later, one J. G. StoU began business in 
the Parthenon Saloon, thereafter the Parthenon Rooms, 
eventually the Parthenon Music HaU, which remained in the 
StoU family for half-a-century. There is extant a programme 
of poses plastiques exhibited in 1850. Mr John Reed, " the 
Old Favourite Comic Vocalist," and Miss M. Baxter, "the 
Celebrated Sentimental Singer from the London and Glasgow 
Concerts" alternated with pictures of a curiously familiar 
type : " The Sultan's Favourite returning from her Bath," 
" Daughters of the Deep," " Greeks surprised by the Enemy," 
and so on. 

Young Oswald StoU quickly developed a passion for 

229 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

correspondence which has never been wholly extinguished. 
Taking for guidance the account-books of the earliest StoU, 
he shaped ideal programmes for the Parthenon, Liverpool, 
which he was not able to materialise, for the simple 
reason that he was offering, " Let us say two pounds ten," 
to artists meanwhile making twenty times that money. Still, 
the mistake was on the right side. And during the ten years 
that ensued, the Parthenon prospered. Mrs StoU was the 
bulwark of her son. She is now. It is a pretty tradition of 
their friendship that whenever he opens a new house Madam 
settles into the box-office and takes the first money. 

One of the last engagements that George Leyboume ful- 
filled was at the Parthenon, Liverpool. Said Mr Stoll to me 
a while ago : " I awaited the arrival of my star in terror ; but 
he came not. I went round to his lodgings, and, in a sordid 
room, found hun, huddled up in an arm-chair, half comatose. 
I shook him, and cried : ' Come, Mr Leyboume ! All your 
friends are waiting for you.' I shall never forget the bitter- 
ness of his outburst. ' My friends ! ' he cried. ' I have 
no friends ! Curse the men who called themselves my 
friends ! ' I got him to the hall, and there, again, he just 
collapsed into an arm-chair. I thought it all hopeless. But 
when the band played his opening music, he sprang to his 
feet, a new man, full of life and charm. He sang five songs, 
and was applauded to the echo. George Leyboume was, 
to me, the exposition of the word ' personality.' I had seen 
nothing like it before. I have seen nothing like it since. I 
suppose I never shall. It was wonderful. To me, in our 
brief intercourse, he had been disagreeable. But he took 
his audience in both hands ; took it to his heart, charmed 
and helpless." 

230 



A STUDY IN STOLL 

Leaving out of one's consideration the great ballet and 
revue houses, the London Coliseum is undoubtedly the typical 
music hall of the world. It is hardly a development of 
the old-time hall, from which it differs greatly. Whence 
comes it ? Well, Sam Hague's Minstrels were always before 
the eyes of Oswald Stoll at Liverpool — comic and sentimental 
song, orchestral music, short dramatic pieces. And at the 
theatres ? Programmes then made up of three, or four, or 
five dramatic pieces, with songs "between." This may 
give a clue. But the music hall of Mr StoU's culture is 
a veritable cormorant. Each morsel he is able to minister 
luito his creature is a triumph — circus, country fair, concert 
platform, theatre, ministrel troupe, they have all paid their 
tribute. 

Then he engrafted on the music hall the " twice nightly " 
system. It was not his invention. Years ago, the foimder 
of the Barnard family of entrepreneurs, pawnbrokers and 
hire furniture merchants, had a music hall at Chatham, 
familiarly known as the " Tin Can." He gave two perform- 
ances nightly : the first, for the delectation of the " common " 
soldier, the second for the amusement of the officers, when 
Tommy was stowed away in barracks. But this is merely 
a fantastic forefather of the twice nightly system, which, 
face here and there an experiment, was devised by Mr Stoll 
to ensure a revenue large enough to meet the vast expenses 
of a really important music hall, and was probably 
suggested to him by the old theatrical dodge for re- 
plenishing its audience, '-' Second price at nine." 

So, when Oswald Stoll moved on, from the Parthenon, 
Liverpool, to the Empire, Cardiff, he conceived the idea of 
linking up a series of halls, with a number of artists 

231 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

specially sealed, giving them permanent employment. The 
old plan was to keep a popular favourite in one place. There 
was a comic singer who stayed at the Parthenon, Liverpool, 
nine months. Nowadays he would be spread over forty 
halls. 

If anyone should encoimter Oswald Stoll in the vestibule 
of a theatre, it is inconceivable that he should ask : "Are 
you the manager ? " for there are none of the marks of that 
amazing functionary. The silk hat, frock coat, simple cravat, 
dark trousers, comfortable boots, sparse jewellery, leave you 
in doubt between a Nonconformist minister and a bank 
manager. For some occasion, a modified carefulness of 
attire was impressed upon him. He professed to take the 
hint, and appeared, still in a frock coat, but, with all the 
other details of a dazzling lightness ! 

Eyes of a disconcerting benevolence beam through 
pince-nez. There is an ominous pause before every sentence, 
delivered in a carefully subdued voice, which never reaches 
a high pitch. Twice only has Mr Stoll been heard to swear. 
His favourite outlet is to pen subtly sarcastic descriptions 
of unsatisfactory performances, for the film announcements 
which appear on the Coliseum screen during the intermission. 
When that weird exposition of " futurist music " a while ago 
awakened an echo like the roar of a woimded animal from 
the Coliseum gallery, Mr Stoll noted the case in a few 
sentences which the enterprising impresario thought were 
smart riclame — because he could not understand EngUsh. 
Those who could, were brought to death's door, by laughter. 

Nothing has so impressed me in my knowledge of this man 
as an experience of his evidence before a Royal Commission 
on some matter of the stage. He did not understand 

232 



A STUDY IN STOLL 

French ; but a knowledge of French plays was important. 
Within a few hours, he was carefully fed with a precis of each 
play essential to his evidence, and had learned to recite, 
with a correct accent, the appropriate extracts. 

He does not drink ; he does not smoke. His idea 
of exercise is a drive round Eutney Heath ; of violent 
exercise, a drive roxmd Putney Heath — ^twice. He has a 
wonderful library of standard authors ; and an intimate 
acquaintance with them all. He has enriched literature 
with two of the most remarkable fcooks that ever came 
through a stage door — a profound study of Herbert 
Spencer, and an idealistic essay on high finance. Once 
he wrote a comic song, called Mary and John, which had 
a tremendous vogue. Nobody outside his family was ever 
heard to address him by his Christian name. The senti- 
ment with which he inspires his enormous staff is that of 
" wonder and amaze " at his capacity. 



233 



CHAPTER XXXIII 



SOCIETY — FIFTY YEARS AGO 



The Beginnings of the Bancrofts — Robertson and his Comedies — 
Tyranny of Burlesque — The Stage in the Sixties 

AS the collection of these pages draws to a close, it 
will be in order to commemorate the fiftieth anniver- 
sary of the production of Society at the Prince 
of Wales's Theatre — on 11th November 1865. It is not 
improbable that there are playgoers to-day who never heard 
of Society. There are many, certainly, who never saw a 
performance of Robertson's comedy. To few will the inci- 
dence of its jubilee convey so much as it should. For 
Society soimded the note of a revolution, and established 
a management that became historic. On 11th November 
1865, Marie Wilton and H. J. Byron had been associated in 
the direction of the Prince of Wales's Theatre just six months. 
They were not exactly partners, in that Miss Wilton found 
the money, avowed the responsible management, and in- 
demnified Byron against loss. Their understanding, and 
their misunderstanding, are fully set forth in The Bancrofts ; 
On and Off the Stage. There was, from the outset; an 
imperfect sympathy. Briefly, Byron's interest was to write 
burlesque, for its then most popular exponent. Marie Wilton's 
ambition was to leave burlesque for the higher plane of 
comedy. But, in their earlier programmes, burlesque 
predominated. In La! Sonnambula ; or the Supper, the 

234 




H. J. Byron 



SOCIETY— FIFTY YEARS AGO 

Sleeper, and the Merry Swiss Boy, Miss Wilton was once 
more the " beamish boy," Alessio. Fanny Josephs played 
Elvino; Mr Dewar, Rodolpho, "Johnny" Qarke, Amina; 
Bella Goodall, Lisa; and Harry Cox, "a virtuous peasant 
(by the kind permission of the legitimate drama). " Bancroft 
was from the outset a member of the company ; and 
already, he confesses, in love with his manager. He had been 
on the stage four years, spent mostly in Birmingham and 
Liverpool. In Birmingham his salary was one pound a week. 
His manager of those days, Mercer Simpson, has often told 
me that the young actor endeared himself more by his skill 
as a fencer than by his promise as an actor ; for Simpson was 
an enthusiastic swordsman, and gladly utilised Bancroft's 
skill with the foils for morning practice. At another obscure 
and vanished theatre, W. H. Kendal had just made his first 
appearance on the stage, playing a small part in Sweeney 
Todd and, with his more distinguished comrade of the Royal, 
was wont to celebrate their improvement at Saturday night 
suppers of the homeliest description, in dejected lodgings 
still to be inspected during my time in Birmingham. 

Edgar Pemberton, the acute diarist of the Birmingham 
stage, is fain to admit that he does not remember Bancroft's 
work, though he must certainly have seen it. I regret that the 
question never arose in conversation with another Birmingham 
connoisseur — a fishmonger, of poor surroimding, who for many 
years had been King of the Claque, and who frankly rejoiced 
in his suppression as such. "For," said he, "I can really 
enjoy a play at last." He was a genuine lover of the stage, 
and a discerning critic, resentful of the occasions when his pro- 
fessional retainer had meant the perversion of his judgment. 

Anyhow, the aristocratic-looking young actor whose work 

235 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

at Liverpool commended itself to Marie Wilton had already 
accumulated a large repertory of minor characters in Shake- 
speare ; and, notably, such useful parts of the period as Bob 
Brierley, John MUdmay, Captain Hawkesley and Murphy 
Maguire. When Society was produced Bancroft was entrusted 
with the part of Sidney Daryl, which in eventual revivals he 
exchanged for that of Tom Stylus. Shortly after his later 
triumph in Caste he married his director, doubtless in need of 
such guidance, for the erratic Byron had gone his way. 

Everybody was getting on. Marie Bancroft's genius for 
comedy was universally acclaimed. Tom Robertson's fees, 
which were one pound a performance for Society, had 
increased to three pounds a performance for Caste. And in 
a statement he drew up about this time for the use of 
his executor, he scheduled investments exceeding in value 
five htindred pounds. Authors deal in more heroic figtires 
nowadays. 

It is rather more than a hundred years since the Prince of 
Wales's theatre was built, on the site of a much earlier 
Concert Room. It ruined its first proprietor, whose wife 
aspired to act. He was a pawnbroker named Paul, eventually 
as Blanchard says, with an eloquent inflection of malice, 
" compelled to raise supplies on the other side of the very 
counter where he had once been chief dictator." After its 
apparently essential baptism of bankruptcy, the theatre 
changed its name a dozen times — ^the Regency, the West 
London Theatre, the Queen's (William IV. 's accession sug- 
gested this compliment to Queen Adelaide), the Fitzroy, the 
Queen's, again, are not all the descriptions of the house, 
which was known as " the Dusthole " when Marie Wilton and 
her early associates entered into possession, fearful that its 

236 



SOCIETY— FIFTY YEARS AGO 

patitons^ would molest a party so respectable. None the less, 
Frederic Lemaitre made his first appearance in England there ; 
and, for a time, it was managed by Mrs Nisbett, that frail, 
beautiful creature who married a title, and to whom Planche 
impudently quoted : 

" If to her share some female errors fall 
Look on her face and you'll believe them all." 

Tom Robertson, schoolmaster, entertainer, actor, journalist, 
hack playwright, had done nothing more remarkable for the 
stage than translate from a French play David Garrick for 
Sothem. He wrote Society with Sothem in his eye — ^to play 
Sidney Daryl, of course. Sothem liked the play, and the 
part, and lent the needy dramatist thirty poimds on the 
security of the manuscript. But Buckstone, then midway 
through his twenty-five years' tenancy of the Haymarket, 
promptly dismissed Society ds "rot." Every manager in 
town agreed ; finally, Sefton Parry, to whom the angry 
dramatist retorted that he was such an utter idiot, his opinion 
confirmed in its writer an obstinate behef in the merit of 
Society. 

When Alexander Henderson at last agreed to try the play, 
at the Prince of Wales's Theatre, Liverpool, there was a 
diSiculty about Sothem's thirty pounds. Byron, who had 
introduced Society to Henderson, was characteristically imable 
to find it. And the loan was eventually negotiated in the 
" Owls' Roost." The irony of it ! It is hard to imagine that 
Byron repented of his interest in Society, for by aU accoimts 
he was an amiable creature; but he certainly threw the 
weight of his influence against its production at the Prince 
of Wales's Theatre. The success of Society crowned Miss 

237 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Wilton's belief in her genius for comedy, settled her deter- 
mination to abandon burlesque, and eventually excluded 
Byron from the scheme. Burlesque continued in the mean- 
while to be a feature of the Prince of Wales's programme. 
At Christmas, 1865, Little Don Giovanni was produced, as a 
seasonable supplement to Society, and John Hare, who had 
made his first remarkable success as Lord Ptarmigant, had 
to put on the petticoats of Zerlina ! Clarke was the Leporello, 
Fanny Josephs the Masetto, Sophie Larkin the Elvino and 
Miss Hughes the Doima Anna. This was Marie Wilton's last 
appearance in burlesque, though some time still elapsed 
ere it was excluded from her programmes altogether. 

She records, in her Memoirs, that an amusing feature of Little 
Don Giovanni was the Commandant's horse, which " looked 
like an exaggerated Lowther Arcade toy." About this time, 
the dilapidated equestrian statue in Leicester Square was, 
during a night, painted white and adorned with huge white 
spots. London laughed in approval — and the cleansing of the 
foul and disreputable Square began to be seriously considered. 
Official attempts to discover the perpetrators of the " out- 
rage " were imsuccessful ; though the investigation need not 
have travelled farther than the Alhambra paint-room. It 
is interesting to survey the London stage as it was in the 
autumn of 1865. London mourned the death of two very 
different, and yet not unsympathetic, celebrities — Palmerston 
and Tom Sayers. None of the forces that made the modem 
stage was manifest ; though the Bancrofts have lived to see 
them spent ! Henry Irving had been to London, but 
resigned his engagement with Harris at the Princess's, 
because his part in Ivy Hall was insignificant, and 
returned to the provinces for more years of drudgery. 

238 



SOCIETY-FIFTY YEARS AGO 

Still, it may be that the Lyceum had in Fechter the 
most interesting manager of the moment. With Charles 
Dickens for his backer, never heavily taxed, and 
faithfully repaid, Fechter was for four years, from 1863 
to 1867, the director of the Lyceum, The Duke's Motto, 
Hamlet, Belphegor, Ravenswood and The Corsican Brothers 
being among his productions. At the particular moment, 
he was doing an adaptation from the French, by Palgrave 
Simpson, called The Watch Cry. Fechter was, in fact, 
the one distinguished director of the earlier Lyceum, other 
than Madame Vestris. There were several ephemeral 
managements after his depaiture, ere Colonel Bateman 
laid the foundation for Henry Irving. 

Gilbert had not yet delivered his attack on salacious and 
silly opera bouQe—iov one thing, opera bouffe was still un- 
known. He may claim to have written the first " problem 
play," or the first play to which that stupid phrase could, 
with its present significance, be applied — to wit, Charity, which 
was produced at the Haymarket in 1874, with Mrs Kendal 
as the central figure of the controversy which raged as to 
the moral qualities desirable in a stage heroine. But when 
the star of Robertson arose, Gilbert had not yet made up his 
mind whether the Bar or fugitive journalism offered the 
lesser chance of starvation. He had not even written a 
burlesque for the Gaiety, for that theatre was still unbuilt. 
That he would revolutionise the musical stage, and die worth 
£140,000, was beyond his dreams. 

It is probable that Society had no more formidable rival 
than Rip Van Winkle, in which Jefferson managed a long rxm, 
for those times, at the Adelphi. Only the other day, Mrs 
Adelaide Billington commemorated the fiftieth anniversary 

239 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

of her appearance as his Gretchen. At the Princess's, It's 
Never Too Late to Mend, with its aggressively reahstic prison 
episode, induced a " scene " — ^Vining, the manager, publicly in- 
sulted the critics from the stage. But the play endured, and is 
a profitable undertaking still. It headed the Bancrofts into 
London ; and it saw them out, for by the merest coincidence 
Harris revived it at Driu-y Lane a generation later, while they 
were making their adieux at the Haymarket. Perhaps one 
may infer that Reade's play is, in its way, as characteristic 
and as vital a product of the English stage as Society itself. 
Elsewhere in our survey of the stage in the sixties we are 
confronted with this curious spectacle : Here and there a 
perfunctory production of Shakespeare ,- but mostly adap- 
tations, from the French, not acknowledged — now of senti- 
mental melodrama, now of sexual farce. The only original 
work of which the English dramatist seemed capable was 
burlesque, generally with a classical theme, impiously 
perverted, and decorated with word contortion beyond en- 
durance. There was burlesque everywhere, if only a short 
burlesque, relieving more serious fare. On the night of the 
production of Society Miss Wilton's old home, the Strand, was 
closed, for re-decoration and the final rehearsals of L'Africaine, 
a travesty of Meyerbeer's opera by Biuniand, in which, on 
the following Saturday, Ada Swanborough, David James and 
Thomas Thome appeared. A few years later, the two men 
were established ia the new Vaudeville and on the way to a 
vast fortime with Our Boys, for which Byron may have found 
a suggestion in the sentiment and style of his lifelong friend, 
Tom Robertson. Bumand had another burlesque running, 
at the Royalty — a revision of the Dido which he had written 
a few years before for the exploitation of Charles Yoimg as 

240 



SOCIETY— FIFTY YEARS AGO 

its heroine, at the St James's Theatre. The legends of Troy 

seemed to have a particular fascination for him. He used 

them all over and over again. Here is a characteristic line 

from Dido : 

" yEneas, son of Venus, sails the sea 
Mighty and high, 

As Venus' son should bea" 

A third burlesque from this prolific pen, Ixion, originally 
produced at the Royalty, formed a part of the programme at 
Astley's, though Adah Isaacs Menken, in A Child of the Sun, 
was doubtless the real attraction. Apropos : in considering 
the competitors of the Prince of Wales's Theatre in the sixties 
we have again to remember that the West End was not the 
close circle it is now. Indeed, the Prince of Wales's itself 
would have been out of bounds. Miss Marriott, at Sadler's 
Wells, was employing, in performances of Shakespeare and 
Sheridan and Sheridan Ejxowles, a company hardly inferior 
to that at Drury Lane. Her programme before me includes 
the inevitable burlesque — Arrah ! No Brogue ! 

From the Haymarket Brother Sam, an adaptation, from the 
German, by way of a change, designed to exploit Sothem in a 
companion sketch to that of Lord Dundreary, had just been 
withdrawn in favour of a programme made up of four pieces 
— ^Mathews in Used Up, Three Weeks after Marriage, a 
baUet and an extravaganza. At the St James's Theatre Miss 
Herbert had proceeded from a sensational success in Lady 
Audley's Secret to another adaptation from a novel by Miss 
Braddon by the always available John Oxenford (of The 
Times), Eleanor's Victory. Her next important venture was 
a revival of The School for Scandal. At the Olympic, Henry 
Neville — ^that gracious and charming gentleman who lately 
Q 241 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

died, hardly out of harness, having had the rare wisdom to 
periodically accommodate his histrionic undertakings, but 
never his spirit, to his years — ^was the attraction, with 
Kate Terry for his vis-d-vis, in A Wolf in Sheep's Clothing. 
The programme was made up with The Cleft Stick, a farce 
adapted from the French (by John Oxenford) and a short 
burlesque in which Nelly Farren appeared. 

At Drury Lane Helen Faucit had completed what was, 
in effect, her farewell season. Phelps, in the evening of his 
days, was the central figure of a series of Shakespearean 
revivals. It was to this adventure that Chatterton referred 
in a famous letter to The Times, which, after his death, his 
relatives strenuously declared he wrote at the dictation of 
Boucicault. "Sir" (wrote Chatterton), "I am neither a 
literary missionary nor a martyr. I am simply the manager 
of a theatre, a vendor of intellectual entertainment to the 
London public, and I found that Shakespeare spelled ruin, 
and Byron bankruptcy" — ^this by way of an apology for 
Boucicault's Formosa, with its flaming heroine, who at- 
tracted all London, but would hardly serve to illumine a 
prayer meeting nowadays. 

There was a liberal selection of music hall and kindred 
entertainments for the Londoner. The newspapers that con- 
tained the preliminary annoimcements of Society contained 
the prospectus of the Alhambra Limited : Capital, £100,000, 
the first document of the kind on record. Two ballets, Les 
Patineurs and a floral ballet, and a few " variety " performers, 
whose names have no significance now; formed the nightly 
programme. The London Pavilion, just emerging from its 
" free and easy " stage, made much of Arthur Lloyd and 
William Lingard. The New Oxford Music Hall had challenged 

242 



-soc/^rr-riFTY years ago 

the Weston's Royal Music Hall to a trial of strength. The 
Strand Music Hall, with " Jolly John " Nash for its bright 
particular star, was at the height of its brief career. In the 
outlying districts were scores of more or less important music 
haUs. A dozen minstrel troupes fiercely contested the right 
to be known as the " Original Christy Minstrels." 

All the original performers in Society at Liverpool are dead. 
One of them only travelled to London with the piece — ugly, 
amiable, incomparable Sophie Larkin, the Lady Ptarmigant. 
Byron, with all his admiration for the play^ declared that 
the critics would fall foul of it, because of the "Owls' 
Roost." Marie Wilton fought the issue and won. " Better 
be dangerous than dull," she said. Midway between the 
Liverpool production and the London production Robertson's 
wife died. Their happy life had been a troubled one, and 
Robertson's biographer, Edgar Pemberton, declares that 
Mrs Robertson's last illness was due to her persistence in 
earning, on the stage, her share of the expenses of their little 
home. He says that Robertson sent friends to Astley's one 
night with orders to hiss her, in the hope of making her hate 
the theatre ; but they came back declaring that she looked 
so sweet, they could do nothing but applaud ! If this be true, 
I cannot say ; but this I can say — to know, and inevitably 
to love, Edgar Pemberton himself, made it impossible for the 
most adamantine critic to tell him how bad were the plays 
he most persistently wrote. 

Robertson wrote Ours, Caste, Play, School and M.P. in 
rapid succession, and then he died, on the night of the last 
performance of his unfortunate play, War, at the St James's 
Theatre.' It was an injudiciously coloured picture of the 
Franco-German War, then fiercely in progress. Its failure 

243 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

was kept from the dying man — who, however, ingeniously 
coaxed the story of its first-night reception from his 
schoolboy son. 

But the Robertson comedies — ^the half-dozen enumerated 
— changed the atmosphere of the London stage. Robertson's 
comedies had their critics; kindly and unkindly. They were 
ridiculed as the "cult of the cup and saucer." We have 
learned to find them old-fashioned now ourselves, but never 
so old-fashioned as when a foolish manager sought to make 
them modem. When Society was produced the modest style 
of the mise en scene was somewhat scornfully noticed. The 
Bancrofts lived to encoimter more stern and definite reproach 
for setting a new fashion of overloading the stage with 
furniture, and art impedimenta. That was when they revived 
The Rivals at the Haymarket in 1880, when Pinero made his 
last appearance on the stage in the capacity of an actor. 
The success of The Squire had, on the one hand; made his 
work of play-writing more engrossing. But, indeed, his Sir 
Antony moved no critic to enthusiasm. The Squire recalls 
an angry controversy. Pinero said he "had tried to bring 
the scent of the hay over the footlights." Thomas Hardy 
and his friends declared that the dramatist had, in effect, 
adapted Far from the Madding Crowd to the stage. Pinero 
produced evidence of his good faith. The Hardy people 
counter-attacked with an authorised version of the 
novel, which utterly failed to match Pinero's play in 
popularity. 

It is remarkable that Henry Morley's Diary of a London 
Playgoer, from 1851 to 1866, which, reprinted from The 
Examiner, is the judicial and discerning record of that time, 
ignores the Wilton-Byron management, and Society, in which, 

244 



SOCIETY— FIFTY YEARS AGO 

apparently, the critic saw no fulfilment of his ardent hope 
for a renascence of the English drama. 

On the site of the Prince of Wales's Theatre now stands 
the beautiful Scala. It was built, at an immense cost, by Dr 
Distin Maddick, who professed his desire so to commemorate 
the happy memories of his playgoing boyhood. Lady 
Bancroft dissolved to tears as she tried to make an opening 
speech ; and the ambitious pile is now a moving-picture 
house ! It once opened to an audience whose contributions 
to the "treasury" did not nearly amount to a sovereign, 
the impresario of the moment being one W. H. C. Nation,- who 
lately died, worth nearly half-a-million, and whose amuse- 
ment, any time this half-century, was to take a West End 
Theatre for the performancci by decrepit veterans, of his own 
incomprehensible plays. 



245 



CHAPTER XXXIV 

THE GAIETY AND ITS MANAGERS 

The Discovery of Nellie Farren — The Famous Quartette — Edward 
Terry's Oddities — A Pageant of Dead Drolls — The Real George 
Edwardes 

SO long as George Edwardes lived, the Gaiety was 
unique amongst London theatres in having had but 
two permanent managers during nearly fifty years. 
Another distinction it retaias. It is the only theatre which 
has been faithful to a particular kind of entertainment — 
and that, actually suggested by the name of the house. 
There have, of course, been intercalary seasons. But ia all 
probability the traveller retumiag to London after many 
years of absence would still find at the Gaiety a musical 
entertainment, making an appeal to mirth. 

None can appreciate the difficulty of finding a name for 
a liew theatre till he is seriously confronted with it. And 
so, desperation has sometimes driven the impresario to a 
ridiculous incongruity. The Lyceum had to wait long for 
Irving ; then indeed its style became " curiously felicitous." 
But who ever saw a vaudeville at the little theatre in the 
Strand ? How seldom has the entertainment at the Lyric 
or the Apollo been musical ? More remarkable has been the 
ruthless dissipation of almost every tradition clingiag to 
particular houses. Here, once, you would find iaevitably 
Shakespeare, there comic opera, elsewhere characteristic 

246 



THE GAIETY AND ITS MANAGERS 

comedy. Now, the bewildered country cousin has no 
certain goal but the Gaiety. 

Truly, there has been a ceaseless process of evolution. 
When John Hollingshead, in 1878, became the tenant of the 
new house which Mr Lionel Lawson of The Telegraph had 
built on the site of the old Strand Music Hall (and much more 
ground), his programme formula was very like that of what, 
years later, we called a triple bill. In Httle comedies and 
musical pieces the most distinguished actors and actresses of 
the day appeared. The earUest burlesques were of no more 
than an hour's duration, a fact which seems to be overlooked 
by many modem writers on the subject. It was not until 
Christmas, 1880, that the first three-act burlesque was pro- 
duced. The Forty Thieves. HoUingshead's curious apology 
was his desire to work out a " story." 

In one of the recently published obituaries of George 
Edwardes he was described as the inventor of musical 
comedy, as a pioneer of burlesque and as the discoverer of 
Nellie Farren — ^statements which follow the three degrees of 
comparison in inaccuracy. Nellie Farren, bom of a most 
remarkable stage family — ^it can cite four generations, or 
five — ^and trained at the East End, was not even HoUings- 
head's ".discovery." If anyone could claim the distinction 
it was Horace Wigan. But 'tis a foohsh word, anyhow. 
Genius will out. 

Nellie Farren was a member of HoUingshead's company 
from the outset. Doubtless he did appreciate and encourage 
her peculiar facility in burlesque. NeUie Farren's earliest 
vis-d-vis was Joe Eldred, an exceUent comedian, who 
was introduced to theatrical life by that philandering priest 
and passionate elocutionist, the Reverend J. C. M. BeUew. 

247 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Eldred played Micawber in private life even more remark- 
ably than on the stage. With very little trouble he could 
produce an extraordinary likeness to Disraeli, of whom he 
used to give an impersonation, with an effective speech, at 
benefits. Once, during a contested election in the country, 
he mischievously performed this feat on the balcony of a 
hotel. 

For a long time, in succession to Eldred, Toole was the 
Gaiety comedian. The " famous quartette " was not formed 
until 1876 — ^when Little Don Ccesar was produced, Terry 
playing the King of Spain. The programme on this occasion 
included a farce by Robert Soutar, Nellie Farren's journalist- 
actor husband, for many years the Gaiety stage manager, 
and a " farcical drama " by H. J. Byron, The Bull by the 
Horns. Already the superior person was attacking the 
Gaiety, and Hollingshead, nothing loath, entered into a 
furious controversy at this juncture with The Times critic, 
though he had not yet invented that immortal phrase, " the 
sacred lamp of burlesque." This first appeared in his 
Christmas advertisements in 1880. 

Terry was the greatest actor in burlesque I ever saw. He 
had had a long training in Shakespeare, under Irving's pre- 
ceptor, Charles Calvert, before he came to the Strand, whence 
HoUingshead stole him. His whimsical face, his air of 
melancholy, his unexpected vocal inflections, all helped. 
But Terry had the secret of burlesque — he treated it au 
grand sSrieux. 

He was the one member of the Gaiety company who 
kept aloof from its enervating amusements. A penurious 
creature, he saved all he could from his hundred-a-week 
salary, and made money out of the vacation tour of the 

248 



THE GAIETY AND ITS MANAGERS 

provinces, which was specially permitted to him, with the 
use of the Gaiety material, in his contract. He promptly 
seceded when it appeared that the HoUingshead manage- 
ment was making for disaster. Terry found an expression 
of his more generous side in Freemasonry, in the practice of 
which he was of the religious-fanatic order — ^it engaged his 
thoughts, his time, his money. He could have filled a 
museum with his regalia. Next, he loved parochial and 
magisterial responsibilities. When he settled into Barnes 
he had a curious greeting. "Be you Terry the actor?" 
said a doddering veteran — ^the sexton. Terry delightedly 
admitted his identity. ."Oi buried Drinkwater Meadows," 
cried the old man, shaking with laughter as he walked away. 

My last curious encoimter with Terry was at the Central 
Criminal Court, on a Grand Jmy. I promptly proposed him 
for chairman, and I suppose he never spent two happier days. 
Terry was always the laudator temporis acte when burlesque 
was mentioned. But his attempt to revive it, with Kate 
Vaughan, in King Kodak, at his own theatre, was a terrible 
experience, and a remarkable proof of George Edwardes's 
wisdom in rejecting every tradition of the Gaiety which he 
saw had really lost its force. In this he differed entirely 
from Arthiu: Collins who, when he became manager of Drury 
Lane, was perfectly superstitious in the care with which he 
retained every important member of the " old governor's " 
staff. 

Kate Vaughan, whom HolHngshead took from the music 
halls, had already gone her way. Royce was in Australia. 
He is home again, and acting, in his vigorous seventies. 
Edwardes was joyously free from the " old gang " when he 
came into control of the Gaiety. He kept the invaluable 

249 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Meyer Lutz, but readily quarrelled with the veteran, at the 
psychological moment. And he was unfeignedly glad when 
the most wonderful testimonial ever organised by the public 
relieved him of a terrible anxiety on account of the hopelessly 
stricken favourite, Nellie Farren. 

Hollingshead always explained the collapse of his manage- 
ment by the fact that a long illness left him with shattered 
nerves, which he brought to a premature resumption of 
business. " Six months' holiday and I would still have been 
Practical John," said he. I wonder if he was ever Practical 
John ! Anyway, he resorted to this impossible partner and 
the other, and the troubles of the famous old theatre were like 
to become a scandal. George Edwardes, who had done a 
little touring management, in Ireland and elsewhere, as an 
alternative to cramming for the army, thereafter, settling 
into London as acting manager for D'Oyly Carte, with whom 
he had family ties, became HoUingshead's partner. But the 
two men were never in sympathy, and Hollingshead soon 
went his way, leaving a rather important legacy, Little Jack 
Sheppard, which he commissioned and cast. Several failures 
had possibly aroused him to a supreme effort, for Little Jack 
Sheppard was handed over to his successor in good order 
and proved extremely popular. The book was by " Pot " 
Stephens, for many years an effective member of The Daily 
Telegraph staff, and " Bill " Yardley, who was so (eventually) 
imfortunate as to score the first " century " in a imiversity 
cricket match. It helped to divert him from the Bar, and 
made of him a thriftless Bohemian — dramatic critic of The 
Sporting Times, as " Bill of the Play, " writer of burlesques and 
farces that rarely succeeded, but dear, good fellow always. 

Friday afternoon used to see an inroad of The Sporting 

250 



THE GAIETY AND ITS MANAGERS 

Times staff to Romano's bar, with such balances of salary 
as had remaihed due after the mid-weekly inroads ; and in 
their pockets proof slips, miuch in demand, of their salacious 
stories ere John Corlett's discreet blue pencil had ruinously 
gone through. Pot Stephens tried to establish a combined 
rival to The Era and to The Sporting Times as The Topical 
Times, but it had a troubled career and is no more ; neither 
is Pot Stephens, nor, while we are recalling the brave days of 
The Sporting Times, are Corlett, Shirley Brooks, Willie 
Gtoldberg, Arthur Binstead, Edward Spencer, Cecil Raleigh, 
and James Davis. Corlett alone just Uved to see the fiftieth 
anniversary of the sturdy child he had adopted. 

Here is a story characteristic of all its parties. Yardley 
had some rights in a play, which George Edwardes wanted. 
Unwilling, always, to do an impleasant thing he could 
delegate, Edwardes entrusted the mission to the eager and 
dependable Arthur Cohen, who hailed me from a hansom. 
" Have you seen Bill Yardley ? I've been driving about all 
day with a hundred pounds for him." Soon I encountered 
Yardley. He knew all about the hundred pounds, and had 
spent the day hiding in strange bars lest he should meet 
Cohen and be tempted by hunger to sell his birthright for a 
mess of pottage. 

At the outset I spoke of the Gaiety as unique, in one respect 
or two. It is unique in this also : no theatre in the world has 
such a complement of grey ghosts. To the public it appeals 
as the supreme expression of the " light side " of the stage. 
Its favourite performers have won and held the affection of 
the playgoer as none others have even come near winning it. 
Within its walls — ^taking the two Gaieties in continuity — ■ 
there have been amazing outbursts of emotion. 

251 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

What a grim companion picture one could draw ; what a 
pageant of dead drolls one could conjure up — ^not of those 
earlier histrions, or of the later Arthur Williams, who died in 
the fulness of time. The Gaiety has seen such tragedies ! 
One of the earliest acquisitions of the new management was 
George Stone, who began life in a booth, and was, when he 
came into his own, acclaimed a comedian of rare unction and 
humour. Typhoid, got in an unsanitary dressing-room, bore 
him off in his prime. I especially remember his Valentine, 
in Faust. The Mephistopheles was Edward Lonnen, another 
booth-graduate — another early victim, in this case of con- 
sumption, which a life less strenuous than that of a Gaiety 
favourite might have combated. The Marguerite was 
Florence St John, whose first singiag master dismissed her 
because she sang " like a bird," and needed no tuition. Her 
heart was golden, too. Poor, lovable, incorrigible Jack ! 
She contrived to crowd four unhappy marriages into a life 
that otherwise had been much longer. To support her 
first sickly husband she sang in the streets. She was a 
star in grand opera — in Durand's provincial company, 
which probably suggested the greater enterprise of Carl 
Rosa — ^before she took to o-pera bouffe and burlesque. 
It is certain that she loved Marius deeply, and she broke 
into passionate weeping when she appreciated the sordid 
charges he brought against her in that memorable divorce 
case. 

I knew both the parties to the fourth marriage well enough 
to suggest that it might prove disastrous. And so it did. 
" How true were your words " is my last remembered speech 
of a sweet woman and a brilliant artist, then, in the face of 
painful illness, beginning a new chapter in her career, as a 

252 



THE GAIETY AND ITS MANAGERS 

comedian, for the wonderful voice had lost its certainty. 
Death, maybe, was kind. Think again, of Kate Vaughan, 
buried la a strange land; of pretty little Katie Seymour, 
and Katie James. 

Lonnen's successor as Mephisto was Edmund Payne, 
destined to be associated with George Edwardes till the active 
business life of the manager ended — ^though the actor fell ill 
and died, while the manager still lingered. Payne, too, was 
a country lad, of hvunble origin, but when he got to London 
his comical appearance as the call boy in In Town, and the 
suggestion of humour that may have been in him, kept him 
a favourite for twelve years. Few men prospered so greatly 
with so little effort and so little acquired skiU. A lisp, a few 
steps of dancing, a Peck's-bad-boy grin and five feet nothing 
were his stock in trade. Once an accident to his knee kept 
him an invalid for months. He had a most productive 
benefit ; bulletins were issued, as it might be of a royal 
personage, and the Gaiety was packed to the doors to welcome 
him back. A thrill of horror pervaded the audience when 
the poor little man, overdoing his antics, in his excitement 
broke his knee again, and was again consigned to a sick-bed 
from which it seemed he would never rise. It is probable his 
vitality was thereafter impaired. For he was a careful and 
domesticated creature. 

It is safe to say that no actress, for thirty years from the 
seventies, was so beloved as Nellie Farren. "The boys 
welcome their Nellie" was the inscription on an immense 
panel of linen which, too full for words, they hung from the 
gallery when she returned from a long absence abroad. This 
sentence epitomised a volume of theatrical history. No less 
a sum than seven thousand pounds was raised by a benefit 

253 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

performance when her need was made knoAvn, and Nellie 
Farren's funeral had the dimensions of a royal function, 
though a long and painful illness, tenderly watched, had 
prepared her admirers for her death. 

Probably the sudden death of Fred Leslie made the deeper 
impression on the popular imagination. He was a com- 
paratively new favourite, a youngster from the city, whom 
Hollingshead engaged for Little Jack Sheppard, on the 
strength of his success in Rip Van Winkle, What Leslie 
would have become — who shall speculate ? His Rip sug- 
gested one thing. His visit to America sent him home a 
premature Seymour Hicks, restless, fantastically inventive, 
full of strange tricks. His career was short, but he managed 
to accumulate sixteen thousand poimds. 

When George Edwardes died the pens of " One Who Knew 
Him " and the delineator of '.' The Real George Edwardes " 
were busy. But I am afraid neither revealed the man, nor 
could do so. Edwardes's tremendous asset was his nation- 
ality. He had the engaging manner, the charming in- 
genuousness, the deadly skill in persuasion, which are the 
priceless inheritance of some Irishmen. And, while he had, 
of course, moments of intense emotion, he could repress it. 
Rutland Barrington tells of an encoimter between Edwardes 
and an actor, a very old friend, in the Strand. Edwardes 
acknowledged the other's greeting, chatted pleasantly of 
early days, professed delight at the meeting, and said : " Come 
along and see me one day. I'd like to find something for you 
at the Gaiety." " But I've been there these three years ! " 
said the other. One is asked, I suppose, to receive this 
as a characteristic instance of absent-mindedness. It was 
probably a pose, of many possibilities. No keener man of 

254 



THE GAIETY AND ITS MANAGERS 

business than Edwardes existed. He perpetrated the wildest 
extravagances, but deliberately, and with ulterior motives. He 
was ridiculously generous, in salaries and in presents, to some 
of the actresses in his employment — ^it was his way of avoid- 
ing argimient and disturbance. But, all things being equal, 
the Gaiety bargains were hard bargains, and contracts 
needed to be carefully considered, even referred to experi- 
enced advisers. Edwardes had a way of making appoint- 
ments for business conferences at strange hoiurs. Find him 
lolling on a settee, at midnight, with a pipe in his mouth as a 
relief to his habitual cigar, tired, after a day's racing — and 
he was at his deadliest. Nothing so impressed his business 
methods as the style of the men whom, in succession, he had 
for his confidential advisers. Dead is Michael Levenston ; 
dead is Arthur Cohen. When the new Gaiety was built 
there were three deep niches for statuary in the wall of the 
first story. Who can recall Charles Brookfield's awful jest ? 
I won't, here. 

Edwardes had a style of dress that would have looked 
strange on a less handsome, well-groomed, engaging man — a 
lounge suit and a silk hat, almost invariably. He had, like 
Hollingshead, a high-pitched voice, with a plaintive note. 
He entertained largely at the Savoy and Romano's, and 
keenly appreciated the " best boy " in the economy of the 
. Gaiety. He was an inveterate gambler, now rich, now poor 
— never so poor as at the moment of producing The Merry 
Widow — on horses, in stocks and at the all-night card-table, 
which was his greatest delight. To the public he stood for 
a heroic development of popular entertainment. " George 
Edwardes is dead ; musical comedy is dead — Quorum magna 
'pars fuit." It is all true, and yet Edwardes had no 

255 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

inventiveness, no initiative and no sparkle of personal wit. 
" No ! No ! I don't like that at all. Try something else " 
was his constant cry at rehearsal — stimulant but not 
inspiring. But he had an exquisite charm of personality. 
The pathos of his last years, a war prisoner in Austria, 
touched every heart, and I doubt if there was a dry eye in 
the church of the Jesuit Fathers, Farm Street, when the last 
services of the Church were performed. His death removed 
the most engaging figure in modem management. 



256 



CHAPTER XXXV 



MY OLD ALBUM 



Three Famous Clowns — The Queen's Jester — An Interesting Interview — 
Eccentricities of Celebrities — Mrs Weldon and Gounod 

IF ever Fate should enforce the surrender of my ragged 
regiment of books, the last to march must be an old 
album. It was full before the spirit of modem art 
possessed photography. It has a moustached Henry Irving, 
Ellen Terry in a crinoline, Lottie Venne in an Early Victorian 
" pork pie," Mrs Langtry with something like a chignon, and 
a strange structure called, I thiak, a pannier. There is a 
blank page, from which the perennial Prince Paragon tore a 
hated record of her teens. She is forgiven ; but no more is 
that sacred volume entrusted to fingers that would imkindly 
touch the face of Time. 

For a frontispiece stands the memorial of my first romance 
— ^Minnie Warren, who reached town ia the company of 
(General Tom Thimib. Madam Thumb, a little larger than 
her man, played propriety. Minnie sordidly sold her 
pictures, at the price of a shilling, but if one could lay his 
hand upon his heart and declare that his years were fewer 
than ten, she added a kiss. Tom Thumb died — others 
filched his name, but the original Tom Thumb passed away 
in 1890. Miimie Warren still Hves. She married some 
modem correspondent to Count Borulaski, and, as a Coimtess, 
not so long since revisited London. We talked of old days, 
R 257 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

but all her politeness could not hide the truth. She had 
forgotten ! 

I see the picture of an immense, benevolent-looking negro, 
rudely inscribed Macomo. It brings back to memory a 
travelling wild beast show, long since absorbed by the 
Bostock family, I believe — ^that of Manders. Macomo was a 
sailor, who volunteered at Greenwich Fair, and for years 
enjoyed great fame as the Lion King. I hate performances 
with animals, and never unwillingly witnessed one that I did 
not seek forgiveness from the great brown eyes of a most 
imderstanding bull-dog. But show folk, who often have this 
feeUng too, when you get to their hearts, make a few excep- 
tions of trainers, and declare that Macomo had a deep love of 
the brutes, who certainly responded to him as I have never 
seen wild beasts respond. Time after time one read in the 
newspapers that he had come to the end that was universally 
predicted for him. But he died a natural death. 

" W. F. Wallet, the Queen's Jester, in his seventy-second 
year " is written in a firm hand across the portrait of a hand- 
some old man, in the conventional costume of his kind. An 
unwarranted assumption of a long extiuct title, as you can 
easily assure yoiu-self, on reference to the erudite Dr Doran's 
record of "Court Fools." But Wallet had appeared before 
Queen Victoria and her young people on several occasions, 
and a royal smile was easily construed into a royal sanction ! 
Wallefs Memoirs are the only important record we have, 
from within, of circus life. He was the son of a Nottingham 
tradesman, and, when he had made his mark, returned to his 
old home to marry into the well-known musical family of 
Farmer — ^John Farmer, the Harrow professor, was his 
brother-in-law. Another was Henry Farmer, writer of the 

258 



MY OLD ALBUM 

unforgettable First Love waltz. Wallet, were he to be 
revived, would probably be an incomparable compere of 
revtie to-day. As it was, he delivered addresses full of quaint 
philosophy, pleasant jocularity and Shakespearean tags. He 
travelled the world over and made and lost fortunes — a 
formal, gracious, entertaining old man, who made one turn 
instinctively to a well-known essay of Lamb, for his 
counterpart. 

Three most sedate old gentlemen look like physicians in 
consultation. They are the famous clowns of my generation 
— ^Harry Boleno, whom I never saw, Harry Payne and Watty 
Hildyard. The last was incomparably the finer. Payne 
became a clown by accident. He was a mimic and dancer, 
and was figuring as a bear in a Covent Garden pantomime 
when Flexmore, the great clown of the day, fell ill. " Stand 
by, yoimg Payne; I don't think Flexmore's long for this 
world," said the manager. And surely enough, Payne had 
to skip out of his bearskin one night, into the motley. He 
was clown thereafter in some fifty pantomimes — a large, 
prosperous-looking man, who lived in a dull house at Camden 
Town, and went to the city twice a week for a report on his 
investments. 

Watty Hildyard could go back to the pantomime with an 
"opening," when the comedian of a dramatic plot was 
mysteriously changed into the clown. Throughout the long 
run of an Adelphi pantomime he nightly, under these con- 
ditions, went up a " trap " as Toole went down, but never 
met his alter ego. Watty Hildyard recalled a Covent 
Garden pantomime to which Queen Victoria brought Prince 
Albert Edward and the Princess Victoria, and soundly 
smacked her son and heir for snatching the opera glasses 

259 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

from his sister! Pleasantry and humour exuded from the 
little man, who inherited a small fortune from a religious 
aunt, with the condition that he left the stage and changed his 
name. So he spent a peaceful old age at Greenwich, con- 
cealing his identity from new neighbours and old friends. 
" You won't give me away ? " he said to me one night, after 
he had tenderly displayed his old dress over a cup of tea. 
But he stole away to Drury Lane from year to year, and 
talked old times with Pajme. 

Here is a picture of Toole as Caleb Plmnmer. His first 
Tilly Slowboy, it is interesting to recall, was Nellie Farren, 
and his first Dot, Carlotta Addison, as sweet in her old age as 
she could have been in her girlhood. Across the comer he 
has sprawled : "I like to get as near nature as I can for four- 
pence." Toole was an old man when I got to know him 
personally. He cherished a love of young society — ^the boys 
of his company had to do escort duty when he took his daily 
walk of the provincial cities, on tour. He sedulously lived 
up to his reputation for practical joking, feeling that a quip 
and a crank was expected of him. I love to remember that 
occasion on which he was hoist with his oAvn petard. He 
gave a garden-party, for which he made careful preparation 
by tying bunches of grapes to holly bushes, peaches to yew- 
trees, and so on. When many strange folk were found 
mingling with his guests, it proved that two distinguished 
actors had stationed themselves at the outer gate and 
tempted all passers-by to come in and see the show. I have, 
I suppose, the last picture taken of Toole, by Ralph Lumley, 
the dramatist. The background is Mrs John Wood's garden, 
at Birchington — ^Lumley married her daughter and some- 
while successor at Drury Lane. I recall Mrs Wood for a 

260 



MY OLD ALBUM 

passionate protest against "interviewing." She declared 
the modem habit of taking the pubUc behind the scenes to be 
degrading, and solemnly prophesied that the public would 
cordially hate the theatre, when its last vestige of illusion had 
gone. 

Apropos interviewing : to a portrait of Cecil Rhodes I have 
appended a memorial of a journalistic failure. One wintry 
morning in 1892 I went out from Plymouth on the mail 
tug to intercept the great man on his way to London. The 
steamer should stay a quarter of an hour. I presented the 
credential of a great London daily. "So," said Rhodes, 
" you've come all the way from London to make me talk ? 
And I have come all the way from South Africa to keep my 
mouth shut." 

Toole left a vast fortime — ^nearly eighty thousand poimds — 
and a wonderftd will. In its multitude of bequests it was a 
diary of his friendships — ^the fluctuation of which was recorded 
in innumerable codicils and corrections. Henry Neville left 
a similar, and to his executors even more troublesome, docu- 
ment. Here is Neville, in the nineties — ^finely fixed, with a 
touch of old fashion ia his frock coat and his cravat, his hair 
pennittiag a cherished Brutus still. He had a tricky pose, 
three-quarter front, which conveyed the idea, in a picture, or 
in a big stage situation, that he was nearly an inch taller than 
actually was the case. Neville was terribly sensitive on the 
point of his age. As we turned away from Pettitt's grave 
together, he remarked, of the inscription on the coffin : " The 
truth at last ! In the same hour, you shall know it of me, 
dear friend, but not before." I suppose he was still early in 
the seventies. 

Portraits of Sims and Pettitt are side by side — Sims, in a 

261 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

smart frock coat, with a delicate waist, a polished silk hat, 
button-hole and cane, quite the hero of his own Crutch and 
Toothpick. Pettitt carefully measured the print, and a day 
or two later stuck in a photograph carefully a little larger. 

A group from Dearer than Life at the Queen's Theatre 
is interesting — ^Irving, Toole, Wyndham, Ada Dyas, John 
Clayton and Henrietta Hodson. But still more interesting 
from its inscription : " I picked this up in the Walworth Road 
and thought you would like to have it. — ^Leno." The little 
comedian developed that ducal style of signature. He was 
an ardent lover of the serious theatre and was a regular 
visitor to the Lyceum. He had a passion for making up 
in Irving's characters and having photographs taken. 
Charles I. and Richard III. figure among my treasures. 

, Early one Monday morning Pettitt and I terminated a late 
sitting at Henry Neville's hospitable fireside, to find Pettitt's 
brougham axle deep in snow, the driver inside, very drunk. 
We mounted the box and started Londonwards, Pettitt driv- 
ing. Near Chalk Farm he ran into a post. From the interior 

of the brougham came an angry oath. " My , what a 

coachman." At Drury Lane next night I was telling the story 
in Harris's convivial comer of the saloon. Charles Warner 
entered and overheard. "Pettitt," said he, "convulsed the 
Green Room Club with that story at dinner to-night — ^but, 
with you as the driver." 

To a photograph of Irving I have attached a note in his 
handwriting, which summarises the diplomacy and sweetness 
of the man. It was induced by the first notice of an import- 
ant production, with which I was entrusted as a budding 
critic. Addressed to the writer came an instant letter: 

" I thank you for your gracious words. — ^Henry Irving." 

262 



MY OLD ALBUM 

A carefully dishevelled creature, with hair and beard 
streaming at full length, loose collar and cravat, is Henry 
Arthur Jones, now, like Sir Arthur Pinero, sedulously 
trimmed ; then, just bridging the abyss between commerce 
and the stage, and dressing the part of the dreamy dramatist. 
One night, in the Green Room Club, he adventured some 
strong opinions on play-writing, which angered Pot 
Stephens, who, with no more than a poor opera book or two 
to his name, turned on the stranger, ridiculed his appearance 
and his views, and asked him how he dare hold forth in 
such company! Poor Pot was silenced long ago, but Mr 
Jones, as the parliamentary reporters say, is " left speaking." 

Here is Mrs Weldon, that mad, benevolent and beneficent 
creature. I know little of her tragedy, something of her 
eccentricity, much of her good heart. The picture is in- 
scribed : " ToH. G. Hibbert. B.P.P.I.," and proceeds to explain 
that the ring on her little finger was the gift of Gounod, with 
whom she had quarrelled bitterly. Her exclusion from the 
Birmingham Festival, where she meant to expound him, 
settled the right of a theatrical manager to absolute discre- 
tion in the sale of tickets. But Madam Georgina got her 
own back when Mors et Vita was done, at the Royal Albert 
Hall, for the delectation of the Queen. It was greatly 
desired that the composer shotdd conduct. An appeal to 
Mrs Weldon brought this reply : " I am more than astonished 
at your impudence. I have this morning returned from 
Paris, where I have successfully set everything in motion to 
obtain an exequatur of my verdict against Mr Gomiod. If 
he attempts to set his foot in England as matters now stand, 
I shall immediately have him arrested." 

I asked the meaning of " B.P.P.I.," and got a letter in 

263 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

Madam's singiilarly neat and legible writing : " Ignoramus ! 
Get a cheap edition of Cobbett, who called journalists (God 
forgive him) the Best possible public instructors." 

Once I showed my old album to a distinguished actor. I 
saw him conning with interest the picture of a beautiful 
woman, always imknown to me, and eagerly asked if he could 
identify the dame. "My first wife, damn her," was the 
quick response. 



264 



CHAPTER XXXVI 

THE ROMANCE OF THE CINEMA 

Its Introduction to London — A Prot6g6 of the Music Hall — Millions 
Made, and Lost — Its Wondrous Future 

OF all the children to whom the music hall has been 
foster mother, none was so rapid in its growth, so 
wajrward, so fruitful in surprise as the cinemato- 
graph. And, after twenty years of remarkable achieve- 
ment, it is still, in the belief of them that know it best, but on 
the threshold of its greatness. "The British public," said 
one recorder of its early exhibition, " has a new toy, of which 
it is not likely to tire quickly " ; just as an American writer 
of the first importance had been interested, but found the 
cinematograph "a curiosity of no particular importance." 
A toy ; a curiosity ! 

Moving pictures, it is still necessary to explain to the 
technically unlearned, do not move. This illusion was pro- 
duced by the earUest scientific toy-makers. All the early 
photographers strenuously endeavoured to capture impres- 
sions of movement. Edison casually gave to the world a 
contrivance known as the kinetoscope, which he did not 
effectually protect. And from that many inventors toiled 
sim^ultaneously to develop what we know as the cinemato- 
graph. 

To the imagination of the Londoner, Robert W. Paul made 
the first and the most prolonged appeal. He was a craftsman 

265 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

of delicate and ingenious scientific instruments, and, having 
made a greater, or at any rate a more important contribu- 
tion to the development of the cinematograph in England 
than any other, having taught many men of more heroic 
enterprise, or better luck, how to become millionaires, he 
retired from the field and returned contentedly to his first 
calling. 

Paul illustrates the romance of invention with a homely 
picture. When, in the small hours of one morning, his 
experimental pictures were first endowed with life, in his 
Hatton Garden workshop, his men uttered a great shout of 
victory, the police were alarmed and broke in. As a sedative, 
an impromptu exhibition was administered to them. And 
so, in the winter of 1895, the cinematograph came to London. 
In a few weeks it was brought to the notice of Augustus 
Harris, and, frankly regarding it as an entertainment novelty 
of an ephemeral quality, he tried a cinema side-show at 
Olympia, where it competed with Richardson's show and 
kindred delights. 

Meanwhile Lumi^re, a Parisian photographer, had arrived 
at similar results, from a manipulation of the kinetoscope. 
Trewey, the juggler, and exponent of comic expression with 
the aid of a flexible felt hat, brought the Lumi^re apparatus 
to London, and was certainly ahead of Paul in impressing 
the cinematograph on the great mass of pleasure-seekers. 
The music hall agents and music hall managers were in- 
credulous. Trewey resorted to the home of the scientific 
toy — ^the Polytechnic, and was looked upon as having 
achieved the finality of his mission. But he persisted. He 
arranged an afternoon season at the Empire, in the early 
days of March 1896. He soon insinuated the cinematograph 

266 



THE ROMANCE OF THE CINEMA 

to the evening programme here. And the reign of the 
moving picture began. I remember asking Trewey what 
he beheved to be its possibilities in expeditiousness. He 
declared that if the progress of improvement were main- 
tained a day would come when an occurrence might be repro- 
duced on the screen within forty-eight hours. Whether or 
not my old friend lived to see his estimate corrected to 
minutes, I know not. Paul was in immediate succession. 
Toward the end of March, 1896, his so-called Animatograph 
was established at the Alhambra, where a tentative engage- 
ment, for weeks, was extended to one of years' duration. 
Indeed, I do not believe that either of the two great Leicester 
Square houses has been without some form of animated 
photograph in all the meantime. Soon a finer apparatus 
than that either of Paul or of Liraii^re arrived at the Palace 
— ^known as the American Biograph, which for many 
months drew all London. Its pictures were larger, steadier, 
more actual. Before the end of 1896 there was not a 
music hall without its equipment of animated photography. 
Its scientific, industrial, commercial, and above all its 
tremendous art possibilities, were not yet conceived — or 
perceived. Let me, as merely of the ministry of popular 
entertainment, emphasise this fact. The greatest, or at any 
rate the most appellant, scientific invention of our time, 
was niurtured in the English music hall, just as the electric 
light was first exploited as the advertisement of a theatre. 
A third Londoner completed the group of the pioneers 
of animated photography — a young American salesman of 
apparatus, Charles Urban, to whom the higher development 
of the new invention — ^its use for illustrating travel, the 
wonders of nature, and of scientific investigation — has 

267 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

always appealed, more than its use for frivolous amusement — 
on occasion, debased amusement. And two young Frenchmen, 
the Brothers Pathe, who began life as the exhibitors of a 
gramophone at Paris, quickly built up an immense business 
for the manufacture and sale of apparatus and films. 

Imagination recoils from an attempt to suggest the 
magnitude of the cinematograph to-day. Estimate Eng- 
land's inexplicably small share, then multiply it many 
times, and begin the endeavour to appreciate the fact that 
the cinematograph represents the third largest industry of 
America, where millionaires operate in its finance as they do 
in public loans, in railways, mines and steel; where great 
theatrical managers, dramatists and actors have silenced its 
menace by alliance, where they think nothing of an expendi- 
ture equalling ten thousand pounds on a production, and 
where they maintain upwards of six hundred picture 
theatres in a single city, Chicago. 

Is English enterprise to follow in the wake of this huge 
enterprise ? There are, at any rate, points of remarkable 
likeness in the evolution of the cinematograph here. First 
of all, the fact is to be noted that the pioneers of the in- 
dustry, in both coimtries, nearly all retired — a few of them 
enriched, some of them disappointed and disaffected, some 
of them utterly broken. There never was a business of such 
strange mutations. It has been called by one of its most 
important adherents, Fred Martin — one of my boys, when he 
first of all aspired to journalism — who is mainly responsible 
for the manipulation of the exclusive picture and the intro- 
duction of the five-reel or " full performance " film here, in 
preference to a programme of many items, " The Topsy 
Turvy Industry." 

268 



THE ROMANCE OF THE CINEMA 

One of its wealthiest men to-day was a travelling show- 
man. But the experience of the travelling showmen as a 
community was very different. To a man they abandoned 
their waxworks and their freaks and their marionettes for 
the cinematograph. I recall a St Giles's Fair at Oxford — 
that historic function still retained, but I think then lost, 
its boyish fescination for me — ^when, of fifty-one booths, 
forty-nine enclosed crude cinematograph shows, mostly 
exploiting vulgar comedy. The travelling showman came 
next to the music hall in popularising the cinematograph as 
an entertainment and in supporting it as a manufecturing 
industry. But he was hoist vnth his own petard. His 
success stimulated local enterprise, and when he revisited an 
old pitch he found a permanent picture theatre established. 

Ruin spread among the travelling showmen and a new era 
in the history of the cinematograph began. Not the Klon- 
dyke attracted such a ragged swarm of adventurers. The 
collapse of the skating rink fever had left numerous sites and 
building shells free. Wild-cat speculators attracted milhons 
of money from ignorant speculators, always fascinated by 
the business of pleasure. You could count picture palaces 
by the score in a brief ride across London. Again a debacle ; 
and the official liquidator busy. But out of the wreck a 
new, resplendent picture palace — ^the ideal picture palace — ^is 
slowly rising. Its architects have expanded to one hundred 
thousand pounds in outlay on a structure. 

For the short, amusing picture play there will always be 
a particular market. Elemental amusement will never lose 
its charm and importance — ^not till the love of toys is dead 
in small children and great. But the cinematograph has left 
the nursery, and — still with xmcertain eyes — ^is surveying the 

269 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

world. It has fascinated nearly every great actor, nearly 
every great author of our time, and liberally rewarded 
their adhesion to its cause. It is forming its own schools 
of financiers, and artists, and mechanicians, formerly drawn 
from everywhere and anywhere. The millionaires of the 
moving picture world include a clothing salesman, an 
itinerant conjurer and a music hall "lightning cartoonist." 
The redoubtable Charlie Chaplin, now drawing his weekly 
emolument in thousands of dollars, was a " Lancashire clog 
dancer." The greatest producer of the day, D. W. Griffith, 
who begins his cash account with a retaining fee of four 
hundred poimds a week, was but a few years ago a 
desperate actor. Mr Frederick A. Talbot, the historian of 
the cinema, estimated that four million people visit picture 
palaces daily in Great Britain. They pay fifteen million 
pounds out of their pockets annually into the box-offices of 
the cinema halls, and one person out of every three hundred 
and fifty one passes in the street depends upon the pictures 
for a livelihood. Of what individual investment may mean 
Mr R. G. Knowles is an example. He has outlaid twenty- 
five thousand pounds on the material of his travel lectures, 
and his wife, once Miss Winifred Johnson, abandoned the 
musical career she so adorned to become his secretary, 
editress, librarian. 



270 



CHAPTER XXXVII 

MEDITATIONS AMONG THE TOMBS 

A Fleet Street Graveyard — Fortunes sunk in Newspapers — Popular 
Fiction and its Purveyors — Comic Journalism — The Halfpenny 
Press — The Sunday Dinner of Demos 

WAR has innumerable victims that reach no roll of 
honour — ^which is only my important introduction 
to the remark that upwards of fifty periodical 
pubhcations have quietly slipped away during the past 
eighteen months. The good rule that one should " always 
verify citations " has induced a few fascinated hours spent 
with the Press Directory, not indeed to gaze with a layman's 
wonder on the vastness and variety of journalistic enter- 
prise, but to authenticate some milestones, to scrape the 
moss from here and there a memorial, and to ponder a 
httle on the infinite mutations of popular taste in ephemeral 
literature. 

It is conceivable that many of the newspaper proprietors 
who bowed to the pressure of the war accepted their fate 
gladly. For the percentage of newspapers that show a hand- 
some profit is very small ; of newspapers that just pay, 
modest in its proportions ; and of newspapers that steadily 
deplete the banking accounts of their infatuated owners, 
immense. Millions must have svaak in the wreckage of 
journalism. As I write, an historic newspaper is in the 
market once more. It has steadily lost twelve thousand 

271 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

pounds a year these many years. I wonder if it has ever 
paid. 

One's survey may include another kind of popular publica- 
tion. I have spoken of Henry Morley in his capacity of a 
dramatic critic. He was a person of various erudition and 
immense industry. His range extended to the most remark- 
able book ever accumulated about a form of amusement that 
most folk account vulgar — ^the Memorials of Bartholomew 
Fair, with its merry-andrews and its monsters. We owe him, 
indirectly, an enterprise that may rank with a imiversity, 
" Everjrman's Library " ; for the finely selected and concisely 
annotated series of classics which he issued as " Morley 's 
Universal Library" through the chief apostle of cheap 
literature, Routledge, thirty years ago, made accessible, 
for pence, books which even the catholicity of " Bohn's 
Library " had not included, for as many shillings. But I 
recall an earlier library than Morley's, with its many 
successors. Does the " Cottage Library " still exist, I 
wonder. What joyous feasts were encased in those gaudily 
bound, much-gilded little volumes, issued by some firm 
in the north. The " best seller " was a delectable story of 
humble domesticity called The Basket of Flowers. But it 
included many more considerable works. 

I cannot remember a time when I did not read with 
facility, nor when I did not enjoy the unguided freedom of 
a huge library. But it did not prevent an occasional surfeit 
of mud pies ! My first administration of literary criticism 
was thundered from an evangelical pulpit by a now venerable 
Dean, whose utter want of sympathy with exuberant youth 
— worse, with every aspiration to culture, soured my boy- 
hood ; and whom I lately encountered in the Strand with a 

272 



MEDITATIONS AMONG THE TOMBS 

spasm of painful memory — a very effigy of Calvin in gaiters. 
The curiously assorted subjects of his denunciation were 
William Black's Daughter of Heth, admittedly judged 
from its scriptural title, but otherwise unread; and a 
random threepenn'orth from a newsvendor (so are some 
sermons written), to wit. The Boys of England, The Young 
Men of Great Britain, and The Sons of Britannia, publica- 
tions which enjoyed an immense sale forty years ago, 
and from whose pages emerged heroes to be separately 
honoiu*ed by the publication of their particular adventures 
in weekly numbers, as Jack Harhaway's School Days, Jack 
Harkaway at Oxford, Jack Harkaway Afloat. Jack had a 
rival in Tom Wildrake. And both had a stalwart assailant, 
more effective than my Dean, in dear old George Henty, who 
poured out wholesome fiction for youngsters in prodigious 
quantities ; but also found time for much conviviality at the 
Savage Club. One George Emmett was the prosperous pro- 
prietor of many curious pubUcations for boys. He was a 
great collector of armom-, and a persistent first nighter at the 
old Lyceum, where he once got to blows with Joseph Hatton 
about a disputed staU. 

My hunger for fiction in due course engorged The London 
Journal, The London Reader and Bow Bells — ^all gone, too. 
Will I ever know a pleasure equal to that of reading the 
interminable — ^but who ever wanted to reach its end ? — 
Stanfield Hall ! The writer was a much-esteemed and mild- 
mannered man named Smith. Stanfield Hall, in Norfolk, 
was one of the oldest manor houses in England. It owed its 
greatest fame to the murder of its several residents by James 
Bloomfield Rush, whose order for dinner, shortly before his 
execution, was, " Pig to-day, with plenty of plum sauce." 
s 273 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

In days to come I learned the secret of such authorship. 
The pay of the publishers was small, but so dependable ! 
The novelist would dump down a weekly instalment of 
manuscript on a dirty counter, and wait while the cashier 
took from a hook the galley proof of the previous week's 
work, measure it by the yard, and withdraw the proper 
payment from the till ! Somewhat more sedate was the 
estimable and still flourishing Family Herald, whose pro- 
prietor, WOliam Stevens, laid down a code of rules for his 
writers, strictly enforced. One was that no child should be 
bom out of wedlock in its pages, and the approach of even a 
legitimate addition to the family had to be hinted at in a set 
phrase of scrupulous delicacy. The Family Herald began 
those delightfully confidential and sympathetic Answers to 
Correspondents on which a himdred papers thrive to-day ; 
while the leading articles of its long-time editor, Hain Friswell, 
were models of gentle philosophy. 

To coimteract such " pernicious literature " — I am still 
quoting my Dean — ^worthy people started The Leisure Hour 
and Good Words. I seek them now in vain in my Press 
Directory. And what has become of The Argosy, without 
which no middle-class home was happy, following with a 
passionate eagerness the adventures of one Johnny Ludlow, 
a kind of Victorian Cayley Drummle, invented by the editress, 
Mrs Henry Wood. Miss Braddon had her rival publication, 
Belgravia, gone, as Temple Bar is, and The Gentleman's Maga- 
zine, and London Society — ^whose last editor, James Hogg, was 
the dearest old man that ever added an apology to the three 
half-crowns with which he paid for a set of verses. A few 
years ago there was a regular debacle in magazines of this type 
— Household Words, Home Chimes, Once a Week, among them. 

274 



MEDITATIONS AMONG THE TOMBS 

But the mortality in comic papers is awful. I have 
spoken of Fun. A natural sequence to the establishment of 
Punch was the arrival of Judy, in whose pages that curious 
person, " Ally Sloper," first appeared. In time he had his 
own organ, Ally Sloper's Half Holiday ; and Judy languished 
for lack of him. Some time since I saw a speculative accoimt 
as to the origin of Sloper. This I beheve to be the true 
one : Charles H. Ross edited Judy. Marie Duval drew for it. 
Ernest Warren, who died ere the fulfilment of his great 
promise as a dramatist, wrote for it. The staff was one of 
those affectionate fraternities that the old editors seemed 
better able to manage than the new. Warren, intimately 
known as Uncle Inkpen, had been badly scarred by illness in 
Jamaica, and Marie Duval loved to draw strange pictures of 
him. That was the suggestion of Sloper, which W. G. Baxter, 
a clever artist from Manchester, developed into the long- 
famUiar monster. Sloper became an obsession of Baxter, 
and ruined his career, as Manchester men who remember his 
fine earlier Dickens studies agree. Funny Folks was for 
years a good property, but is no more. Moonshine might 
surely have lived on John Proctor's cartoons, but it flickered 
out. Ariel served, at any rate, to establish Zangruell as a 
humorist. And Pick-Me-Up exploited some of the best 
work of Phil May and Dudley Hardy. But the avowedly 
comic paper seems to begin and end in Punch. I suppose I 
have forgotten a score. But I remember a cold-blooded 
effort at.a comic monthly — ^H. J. Byron's short-lived Mirth. 

Society papers without number have vainly sought, during 
my time, to emulate the success of Truth and The World — 
of the old World. There have been, in something like that 
order. Vanity Fair, The Whitehall Review, Pan (edited by the 

275 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LIFE 

versatile Alfred Thompson and enclosing a novel by Sala), 
an earlier Sketch, edited by Reginald Shirley Brooks, 
Orange Blossoms, with which Phil Robinson was sure he 
could make a fortune by specialising on society weddings, 
The Court and Society Review, The St Stephen's Review, 
which was at one time of immense assistance to the 
Conservative party, with impudent adaptations of Hogarth's 
cartoons, Society, which missed a fortune by juggling its 
price between a penny and sixpence. The Bat, The Hawk, 
The Period, The Planet and so on. Two costly attempts 
were made to compete with the then unassailable Graphic 
and Illustrated London News, with The Pictorial World and 
Black and White. 

But the more tremendous tragedies are those of the daily 
press, which may be taken to include Sunday papers. It is 
an open secret that The Evening News, one of the most 
prosperous newspapers of to-day, ate up capital to be 
reckoned in hundreds of thousands ere the Harmsworths 
bought it for a song, and emerged from snippety to serious 
journalism. The true story of that deal, engineered by an 
ambitious Birmingham reporter who became a millionaire, 
Kennedy Jones, will never be written, but it was destined to 
revolutionise the English Press — almost, English society. 

It is an odd thing that Newnes, whose romantic success 
with Tit-Bits and The Strand Magazine staked the course for 
the Harmsworths, never got a firm grip of daily journalism — 
his Courier and also his Million stand for two of the historic 
defeats of a really great general in journalism. Nor did 
Pearson, who followed boldly in the track of the Newnes 
and Harmsworth weekly and monthly periodicals, succeed 
remarkably in daily and evening journalism. Stead's 
descent on Fleet Street with The Daily Paper proved 

276 



MEDITATIONS AMONG THE TOMBS 

again, in a few hours, the limitations of his extraordinary 
personality. 

For years the hal^enny paper really appealing to the 
popular imagination was The Echo, started by the publishing 
finn of Cassell, soon tired of a strange and potentially ruinous 
business. They sold it to Baron Grant, the company pro- 
moter who swept Leicester Square and garnished it with 
Shakespeare and geraniums. He made fortunes and lost 
fortunes ; and, in his troubled old age, foimd a curious 
pleasure in collecting prospectuses, as some men of less 
genius coUect postage stamps. That weird creature. Pass- 
more Edwards, must eventually have made millions out of 
The Echo, a vast proportion of which he dissipated in philan- 
thropy — for choice public libraries and missionary " settle- 
ments " during his lifetime. The economies of The Echo 
office were sordid and disheartening. But Edwards had 
the genius of journalism — compression, conciseness, variety 
and a touch of culture were the characteristics of The Echo. 
Its eccentric proprietor was a (theoretical) teetotaller, ^ 
non-smoker, a food reformer, a dress reformer, what not. 
He would hand an applicant for work pen and paper and try 
his quality then and there. He quaintly called this " cheese 
tasting." He sold a share in The Echo to a group of million- 
aires for nearly a hundred thousand poimds, repurchased it, 
and sold it again. Without him, the paper languished and 
died. Its recent resuscitation and death after a few issues 
was a grim joke. 

One of Edwards's other newspaper properties made for the 
haven of amalgamation — The Weekly Times and Echo, with its 
strange hotch-potch of high morality, wholemeal bread and 
horrid Answers to Correspondents on medical eases. Its 

277 



FIFTY YEARS OF A LONDONER'S LITE 

distinction in its last days was that it still retained as its 
dramatic critic Isaac Seaman, the doyen of the craft, whose 
pride is in journalism, and who is kept virile at eighty by the 
joyousness of his disposition and the fervoiir of his friend- 
ships. 

England, as the title of a Tory Democratic weekly, was 
an inspiration of Ashmead Bartlett. But its life and death 
may be epitomised in an incident. Lord Salisbury delivered 
a speech of importance at Sheffield, to which the local 
Telegraph gave many columns, recording in three words the 
fact that " Mr Ashmead Bartlett also spoke." England gave 
the Prime Minister a few lines, and proceeded to a verbatim 
report of its well-meaning but cxiriously egotistical editor. 
It was when the Conservative Party, eager to capture 
the Sunday leisure of Demos, turned in impatience from 
Ashmead Bartlett and England to The People that the 
latter flourished ; and the former made for the graveyard 
which suggested the heading of this chapter. My personal 
bereavement was greatest when The Sun, thanks to a 
mismanaged action for libel, passed from the control 
of my many years' brilliant chieftain. Two more recent 
enterprises merely concern me to bring one's memories of 
journalistic vicissitude up to date, The Tribune and The 
Evening Times. 



278 



APPENDIX 

Alhambba Chronology 

Opened as the Panopticon, l6th March 1854. 

Opened as the Alhambra by E. T. Smithj 7th February 1858. 

Howe's and Cushing's American Circus Season (continued by 

Wallett), 1858-1859. 
Opened as a music hall by E. T. Smith, 13th December I860. 
WilUam Wilde's tenancy, 1861-1864 

Leotard's first appearance in England, Whit Monday, 26th May 1 86l . 
Franconi's circus season continued by Loisset, 1863-1864. 
Reopened, after rebuilding, by Frederick Strange, 26th December 

1864. 
Floated as a Limited Liability Company by Frederick Strange, 

November 1865. 
Dancing licence refused, 13th October 1870. 
Opened as a theatre, 25th April 1871. 
Le Boi Carotte, 3rd June 1872. 
Black Crook, 23rd December 1872. 
La Belle Helene, l6th August 1873. 
Don Juan (extravaganza by H. J. Byron), 22nd December 1873; 

therewith, the ballet. Flick and Flock. 
La Jolie Parfumeuse, i8th May 1874. 
The Demon's Bride, 7th September 1874. 
Wkittington, 26th December 1874. 
Chilperic, 10th May 1875. 
Cupid in Arcadia, 26th June 1875. 
The Flower Queen, 8th November 1 875. 
Spectresheim, 14th August 1875. 
Lord Bateman, 24th December 1875. 
Le Voyage dans la Lune, 15th April 1876. 
Don Quixote, 25th September 1876. 
Die Fledermaus, 18th December 1876. 

279 



APPENDIX 

The Fairies' Home, Christmasj 1876. 

Yolande, 18th August 1877. 

King Indigo, 24th September 1 877. 

OrphSe aux Enfers, 30th April 1877. 

La Fille de Madame Angot, 12th November 1877. 

Wildfire, 26th December 1877. 

The Grand Duchess, 8th April 1878. 

The Golden Wreath, 20th May 1878. 

Fatinitsa, 20th June 1878. 

Genevieve de Brabant, l6th September 1878. 

La Perichole, 9th November 1878. 

La Poule aux CEufs d'Or, 23rd December 1878. 

Venise, 5th May 1879- 

The Princess of Trehizonde, 2nd August 1879- 

La Petite Mademoiselle, 6th October 1879. 

Carmen, 20th October 1879. 

Rothomago, 22nd December 1879. 

La Fille du Tambour Major, 19th April 1880. 

Meiistofele II., 20th December 1 880. 

Hawaya, 27th December 1880. 

Jeanne, Jeannette, Jeanneton, 28th March 1881, 

The Bronze Horse, 4th July 1881. 

Babil and Bijou, 8th April 1882. 

The Black Crook, 3rd December 1881. 

The Merry War, l6th October 1882. 

Destroyed by fire, 7th December 1882. 

The Golden Ring (reopening), Srd December 1883. 

The Beggar Student, 12th April 1884. 

Reopened as a music hall, 18th October 1884. 

The Swans, 31st November 1884. 

Melusine, 22nd December 1884 

Nina, 5th October 1885. 

Le Bivouac, 21st December 1885. 

Cupid, 24th May 1886. 

Dresdina, 15th November 1886. 

The Seasons, 20th December 1886. 

Nadia, l6th May 1887. 

280 



APPENDIX 

Algeria, 11th July 1887. 
Enchantment, 24th December 1887. 
Antiope, 4th June 1888. 
Ideala, 3rd September 1888. 
Irene, 19th December 1888. 
Army and Navy, 1st April 1889. 
Astrea, 8th July 1889. 
Asmodeus, 23rd December 1889. 
Salandra, 23rd June 1890. 
The Sleeping Beauty, 1 5th December 1 890. 
Orietta, 15th June 1891. 
Temptation, 21st December 1891. 
On the Ice, 22nd February 1892. 
Ban Juan, 13th June 1892. 
Up the River, 19th September 1892. 
Aladdin, 19th December 1892. 
Chicago, 27th March 1893. 
Fidelia, 19th June 1893. 
Don Quixote, 11th December 1893. 
The Revolt of the Daughters, 30th March 1894. 
Sita, 25th June 1 894. 
All Baba, 29th October 1894. 
Titania, 30th July 1895. 
Lochinvar, 7th October 1895. 
Bluebeard, l6th December 1895. 
Donnyhrook, 4th June 1896. 
Rip van Winkle, 29th July 1896. 
Tzigane, 15th December 1896. 
Victoria and Merry England, 25th May 1897. 1 
Beauty and the Beast, 4th January 1898. 
Jack Ashore, 8th August 1 898. 
The Red Shoes, 30th January 1899. 
A Day Off, 24th April 1899. 
'Napoli, 21st August 1899. 
Soldiers of the Queen, 11th December 1899. 
The Handy Man, 24th September 1900. 
The Gay City, 19th December I900. 

281 



APPENDIX 

Inspiration, 8th June 190I. 

Gretna Green, 10th October 1901. 

Santa Claus, 25th December 190I. 

In Japan, 21st April 1902. 

Britannia's Realm, l6th January 1902. 

The DeviTs Forge, 12th January 1903. 

Carmen, 7th May 1903. 

All the Year Round, 21st January 1904. 

Entente Cordiale, 29th August 1904. 

My Lady Nicotine, 27th March 1905. 

Parisiana, 11th December 1905. 

L' Amour, 11th June 1906. 

The Queen of Spades, 25th February 1907. 

Les Cloches de Comeville, 7th October 1 907. 

Cupid Wins, 27th January I9O8. 

The Two Flags, 25th May 19O8. 

Paquita, 12th October 1908. 

On the Square, 22nd February 19O8. 

Psyche, 5th April 1909. 

On the Heath, 20th September 1909, 

Femina, 30th May I91O. 

The Dance Dream, 29th May 191I. 

18S0, 19th October 1911. 

Carmen, 24th January 1912, 



Empire Chronology 

Opened as a theatre with a revival of Chilperic, I7th April 1884. 
Season of Gaiety burlesque, 1884. 
Polly revived ; with the ballet Coppelia. 
Pocahontas, 26th December 1884 (with the ballet Giselle). 
The Lady of the Locket, 11th March 1885. 
Billee Taylor, revived, 21st December 1885. 
Hurley Burley (military pantomime), 21st December 1885. 
Round the World, 3rd March 1886. 
The Palace of Pearl, 12th June 1886. 

282 



APPENDIX 

A Maiden Wife, 24th August 1 886. 

Opened as a music hall, 22nd December 1 887. Ballets : The Sports 
of England, Dilara. 

Rose d' Amour (ballet), 19th May 1888. 

Diana (ballet), 31st October 1888. 

Robert Macaire, 24th December 1888. 

The Bal Masque ("A Duel in the Snow"), 28th January 1889. 

Cleopatra (ballet), 20th May 1889. 

The Paris Exhibition (ballet), 30th September 1889. 

The Dream of Wealth (ballet), 23rd December 1889. 

Cecile (ballet), 20th May 1890. 

Dolly (ballet), 22nd December 1890. 

Orfeo (ballet), 25th May 1891. 

By the Sea (ballet), 31st August 1891. 

Nisita (ballet), 22nd December 1891. 

Versailles (ballet), 30th May 1892. 

Round the Town (ballet), 26th September 1892. 

Katrina (ballet), 20th February 1893. 

The Girl I Left Behind Me (ballet), 27th September 1893. 

Living pictures first shown, 5th February 1894. 

British Pluck Tableau, 23rd April 1894. 

La Frolique (ballet), 21st May 1894. 

On Brighton Pier (ballet), 8th October 1894. 

Oosed, as a protest against the County Council restrictions, Satur- 
day, 27th October, to Friday, 2nd November, 1894, inclusive. 

Faust (ballet), 6th May 1895. 

La Danse (ballet), 25th January 1896. 

Lumi^re's cinematograph introduced, 9th March 1896. 

Monte Cristo (ballet), 26th October 1896. 

Under One Flag (ballet), 21st June 1897. 

The Race, 7th February 1898. ^ 

The Press (ballet), 14th February 1898. 

Our River (ballet), 22nd September 1898. 

Alaska (ballet) 12th October 1898. 

Round the Town Again (ballet), 8th May 1899. 

Ordered to the Front, 21st November 1899. 

Seaside (ballet), 10th September 1900. 

283 



APPENDIX 

Les Papillons (ballet), 18th March 1901. 

Old China (ballet), 6th November 1901. 

Sousa's band matinees, November to December, 1901. 

Our Crown, 28th May 1902. 

Gala performance before the Shah of Persia, 19th August 1902. 

Milliner Duchess (ballet), 14th January 1903. 

Vineland (ballet), 26th September 1903. 

High Jinks (ballet), 19th March 1904. 

The Dancing Doll, 3rd January 1905. 

Gen6e commanded to appear before the King and Queen at 

Chatsworth, 5th January 1905. 
The Bugler, 9th October 1905. 
Cinderella, 6th January I906. 
Coppelia, 14th May I906. 
FSte Galante, 6th August 1 906. 
The Debutante, 15th November 1906. 
Sir Roger de Coverley, 7th May 1907. 
The Belle of the Ball, 30th September 1907. 
Coppelia, revived, 10th June 19O8. 
The Dryad, 7th September 19O8. 
A Day in Paris, 19th October 19O8. 
Robert the Devil, 5th July 1909- 
Round the World, 9th October 1909. 
The same, revived as East and West, 21st March 1910. 
The Dancing Master, 25th July 1910. 
The Faun, 3rd October 1910. 
Ship Ahoy, 15th November 191O. 
Sylvia, 18th May 1911. 
New York, 10th October 191I. 
The Water Nymph, 2nd April 1912. 
First Love, 24th September 1912. 
The Reaper's Dream, 11th February 1913. 
Titania, 4th October 1913. 
The Dancing Master, 23rd October 1914. 
Europe, 7th September 1914. 



284 



INDEX 



Accidents to acrobats, 14, 85 
Acrobats, nationality of, 210 
A ct on the Square. See Comic Songs 
Actor managers : influence on the 

stage, 217 
Adam, the brothers, 43 
Adam Street, 42 
Adams, Annie, 96, 212 
Adams, Sam, 123 
Adaptation, metiiods of, 69 
Addison, Carlotta, 260 
Adelaide, Queen, 236 
Adelphi, the, 43 
Adelphi Theata'e, the, 172, 223, 239, 

259 
Mneas, 241 
Africaine, L' , 240 
After Dark, 79 
After the Opera is Over. See Comic 

Songs 
Agents, music hall, 48, 142, 143, 144, 

145, 146 
Ailesbury, Lord, 151 
Aladdin (Alhambra ballet), 107 
A laska (Empire ballet), 107 
Albery, James, 13, 172, 200 
Albion Tavern, the, 12, 13 
Alcazar, the (theatre), 87 
Alessio, 235 

Alexander, Sir George, 171, 209 
Alexandra, Queen, 88, 135 
Algeria (Alhambra ballet), 107 
Alhambra, the, 45, 83, 87, 89, 90, 

104, 105, io6, 107, 127, 135, 136, 

165, 187, 198, 202, 209, 211, 238, 

242, 267 
Alhambra canteen, the, 86 
AH B aba (Alhambra ballet), 107 
Alias, Charles, 182, 221, 222, 223 
All the Year Round (Alhambra 

ballet), 107 
Allan, Maud, no, in, 112, 167 
AUy Sloper, 275 
Alsatian Club, the, 126 
Amberley, Viscount, 18 



American biograph, the, 166, 267 

American visitors to London, 113 

Amina, 235 

L' Amour (Alhambra ballet), 107 

Anderson, James, 74 

Anderson, Mary, 115 

Animatograph, the, 267 

Anne of Cleves, 43 

Annette (Mrs Kendal as, in The 

Stranger), 10 
Annie and Sophia, 156 
Anson, G. W., 172 
Antiope (Alhambra ballet), 107 
Apollo Theatre, the, 246 
Aquarium, the Royal (Westminster) . 

See Westminster Aquarium 
Aquarium Theatre, the, 52, 77 
Archer, William, 27, 29, 117 
Arena, the, 33 
Argosy, The, 274 
Ariel, 275 

Argyll Rooms, the, 123, 124 
Army and Navy (Alhambra ballet), 

107 
Arnold, Sir Edwin, 178, 179 
Arnott (the Lyceum property 

master), 226, 227 
Arrah ! No Brogue ! 241 
Arrah na Pogue, 79 
'Arry. See Comic Songs 
Artist's Model, An, 204 
Artists' Ball, the, 6 
Arundel Club, the, 25 
As I vos a-valkin'. See Comic 

Songs 
As You Like It, 21 
Ascent of Mont Blanc (Albert 

Smith's), 154 
Ash Wednesday, 109 
Ashton, George, 138 
Ask a Policeman . See Comic Songs 
Asmodeus (Alhambra ballet), 107 
Astley's Amphitheatre, 75-76, 241, 

243 
Astley, Hugh, 42 
Astley, PhiUp, 68, 80 
Astley, Sir John, 42 



285 



INDEX 



Astrea (AUiambra ballet), 107 

Athenaum, The, 30 

Auber, 86, 104 

Avenue Theatre, 222 

Ayrton, Mr, 147 

Azael (Alhambra ballet), 104 



B 



Bab Ballads, i, 3 

Babil and Bijou, 106, 199, 223 

Back Kitchen, the, 44 

Bacon, Francis, i 

Bacon's Mount, i 

Bal Masque (Empire ballet), 107 

Ballantyne, Sergeant, 127 

Ballets and ballet dancers, 104 

Bancrofts, the, 82, 168, 236, 238, 
240, 244, 245 

Baradas, 9 

Barker, Granville, 50 

Barnard's Inn, 4 

Bamards, the, 231 

Bamum, P. T., 187 

Bamum and Bailey, 78 

Barrasford, Thomas, 159, 225, 226 

Barrett, Wilson, 9, 27, 28, 80 

Barrie, J. M., 15, 16, 17, 19, 20, 21, 
62 

Barrington, Rutland, 254 

Barry, Helen, 29, 172, 199 

Barry, Jeanne du, 222 

Barry, Shiel, 221 

Bartholomew Fair, 33, 185, 272 

Bartlett, Ashinead, 26, 278 

Basket of Flowers, The, 272 

Basoche, La, 162 

Bass, Sir William, 184 

Bat, The, 204, 276 

Bateman, Colonel, 116, 239 

Bateman, Isabel, 116 

Bateman, Mrs, 74 

Baum, John, 14 

Baxter, Miss M., 229 

Baxter, W. G., 275 

Bears, the Royal, 136 

Beating of My Own Heart, The, 1 1 

Beaufort, the Duke of, 151 

Beauty and the Beast (Alhambra 
ballet), 107 

Beck, Martin, 54 

Beck, Anthony de (Bishop of Dur- 
ham), 43 

Becket, 94 

Becket, St Thomas d, 185 



Beckett, Arthur k, 183 

Becky Sharp, 200 

Bedford, Paul, 74 

Beefsteak Club, the, 154 

Beere, Mrs, 183 

Beere, Mrs Bernard, 89, 169 

Beggar Student, The, 106 

Beggar's Opera, The, 202 

Belgravia, 274 

Bell Inn, the, 4 

Bell, Rose, 87, 106 

Belle of the Ball (Empire ballet), 107 

Belle of New York, The, 117 

Belle Helene, La, 105 

Bellew, the Rev. J. C. M., 247 

Bells, The, 150 

Bells, The (Alhambra ballet), 106 

Bellwood, Bessie, 55, 67, 212 

Belphegor, 10, 239 

Bendigo, 19 

Benicia Boy, the, 75 

Bernard, Charles, 120, 164, 211 

Bernard and Vestris's Minstrels, 1 36, 

164 
Bernhardt, Sarah, 29, 162, 209 
Best Man, The, 31 
Bianchi's Waxworks, 229 
Biene, August Van, 203 
Bignell, R., 123 
Bill, Buffalo, 136 
Bill of the Play, 250 
Billington, Adelaide, 239 
Bilton, Belle (Lady Clancarty), 61 
Bilton, the Sisters, 61 
Binstead, Arthur, 251 
Birmingham, the music hall in, 159 
Birminghdm Musical Festival, 263 
Birmingham Theatre Royal, 235 
Bivouac, The (Alhambra ballet), 106 
Black, William, 2, 272 
Black and White, 276 
Black Crook, The, 105 
Black Dance, the, 14 
Black-Ey'd Susan, 38, 81 
Black Horse, the, 41 
Blanchard, E. L., 25, 236 
Bleak House, 77 
Bleeding Vic, the. See the Victoria 

Theatre 
Blondin, 36, 85, 86, 187, 210, 211 
Blondin, the female, 14 
Blondin, Le Petit, 212 
Bhtebeard (Alhambra ballet), 107 
Blythe, Carlton, 151 
Boar and Castle, the, 36 
Bohee Brothers, the, 125 



286 



INDEX 



Bohn's Library, 272 

Boleno, Harry, 259 

Booth, Edward, 116 

Booth, General, 76, 185 

Bo-Peep, 163 

Bordoni, 107 

Borthwick, Sir Algernon, 168 

Borulaski, Count, 257 

Bostock's Menagerie, 258 

Botting, Robert, 52 

Bottle, The, 8 

Boucicault, Dion, 75, 79, 223, 242 

Bourchier, A., 176, 209 

Bow Bells, 20, 273 

Boy's Best Friend, A. See Comic 

Songs 
Boy I Love, The. See Comic Songs 
Boys of England, The, 273 
Boyne, Leonard, 11 
Brabantio, 9 

Braddon, Miss M. E., 26, 241, 274 
Bradshaw, John, 68 
Branscombe, Maude, 194 
Breitmann Ballads, the, 3 
Brickwell, H. T., 220 
Bridge, Sir John, 190 
Brierley, Bob, 236 
Britannia Festival, the, 64 
Britannia's Realm (Alhambra 

ballet), 107 
Britannia Saloon, the, 65 
Britannia Theatre, the, 63, 64, 65 
Brodribb (Henry Irving), 200 
Broken Melody, The, 203 
Bronze Horse, The, 106 
Brook, Thi, 141 

Brookfield, Charles, 154, 166, 255 
Brooks, Reginald Shirley, 251, 276 
Brother Sam, 241 
Brough, Fanny, 220 
Brough, Lionel, 222 
Brougham, the Sisters, 60, 211 
Brown, Mrs, 3 
Brutus, 80 

Buchanan, Robert, 174, 176 
Buckstone, J. B., 119, 128, 129, 237 
Buffalo Bill, 136 

Bugle Call, The (Empire ballet), 107 
BM by the Horns, The, 248 
Bunn, Alfred, 207 
Bunthome, 147 

i urdett Coutts, the Baroness, 26 
Burgess, Fred, 120 
Burlesque, beginnings of, 81 
Burnand, F. C, 3, 10, 149, 240 
Butt, Alfred, no, 165, 167 



By the Sea (Empire ballet), 107 
Byron, H. J., 3, 67, 82, 105, 175, 

206, 234, 236, 237, 238, 240, 243, 

244, 248 
Byron, Lord, 242 



Cabinet Minister, The, 
Caf§ Royal, the, 88 
Cafe Vaudeville, the, 60 
Caleb Plummer, 260 
Calvert, Charles, 248 
Cambridge, the Duke of, 1 77 
Cambridge Music Hall, the, 100 
Cameron, Violet, 60 
Campbell, Herbert, 103 
Camptown Races. See Comic Songs 
Cancan, the, 105, 222 
Canterbury, the, 32, 33, 35, 36, 37, 

42, 43, 57, 60, 62, 78, 83, 91, 104, 

164, 185,210,211 
Canton, 220 
Captain Crosstree is my Name. See 

Comic Songs 
Captain Cuff. See Comic Songs 
Captain Hawksley, 236 
Captain Jinks. See Comic Songs 
Cardifi Empire, 231 
Carlisle House, 122 
•Carlisle Theatre, 164 
Carlyle, Thomas, 224 
Carmagnole, the, 222 
Carmen, 163 

Carmen (Alhambra ballet), 106, 107 
Carnival of Venice (Alhambra ballet) , 

106 
Carols of (iockaigne, 3 
Carpet Bag, MrWoodin's, 81, 154 
Carrington, the Earl of, 136 
Carte, D'Oyly, 71, 162, 202, 250 
Casanova, 122 
CasseHs, 227 
Caste, 236, 243 
Caulfield, Mrs, 35 
Caunton, 17 
Cavalazzi, Malvina, 109 
Cave, J. A., 52, 68, 74, 91 
Cave of Harmony, 44 
Cayley Drummle, 274 
Cecil, Arthur, 138 
Cecile (Empire ballet), 107 
" Celebrities at Home," 175 
Celeste, 74 
Central Criminal Court, 249 



287 



INDEX 



Cerulea was Beautiful. See Comic 

Songs 
Chairman, the music hall, 47 
Chamberlain, the Rt. Hon. Joseph, 

86 
Chamberlain, the Lord, 50, 105, 147, 

149 
Champagne Charley. See Comic 

Songs 
Chant, Mrs Ormiston, 89 
Chaplin, Charlie, 270 
Chaplin, the Rt. Hon. Henry, 17 
Chapman, the Rev. Hugh B., 190 
Charing Cross Hospital, 71, 141 
Charing Cross Theatre, 71, 81 
Charity, 239 
Charlatan, The, 148 
Charles I., 262 
Charles II., 46 
Charley's Aunt, 81, 131, 219 
Charrington, Frederick, 66 
Charterhouse, the, 52 
Chatham Music Hall, the, 231 
Chatterton, F. B., 242 
Chevalier, Albert, 118, 213 
Chicago (Alhambra ballet), 107 
Chickaleary Bloke, The. See Comic 

Songs) 
" Chicken and champagne," 5 
Child of the Sun, A , 241 
Chilperic, 88, 198 

Chinese Honeymoon, A, 82, 206, 228 
Chirgwin, George, 118, 209 
Chorus girls, 193 ; American, 117 
Chorus Lady, The, 116 
Christabelle , 150 

Christy Minstrels, 119, 120, 121, 243 
Church and stage, 185 
Churchill, Lord Randolph, 150 
Churchill, Mr Winston, 87, 114, 187 
Cider Cellars, the, 33, 44 
Cigale, La, 163 
Cinderella, 163, 206, 223 
Cinderella (Empire ballet), 107 
Cinema, romance of the, 265 
Circus, the, 161 
Circus, Henglers", 136 
Circus, Sanger's, 136 
City of London Theatre, 74 
City Road, 65, 69 
Clancarty, the Earl of, 61 
Claque, the, 133, 134 
Claretie, Jules, 23 
Clark, J., 235, 238 
Clark, John Sleeper, 82, 116 
Clarke, Sir Edward, 26 



Clayton, John, 262 
Cleft Stick, A, 2^x 
Cleopatra (Empire ballet), 107 
Cleves, Anne of, 43 
Clicquot. See Comic Songs 
Clifton, Harry, 103, X56 
Clinton, Lord Arthur Pelham, 10 
Cloches de Corneville, Les, 81, 220, 

221 

Cloches de Corneville (Alhambra 
ballet), 107 

Clodoche, 222 

Clowns, famous, 259 

Coach and Horses, the, 36 

Coal Black Rose, The. See Comic 
Songs 

Coal Hole, the, 33, 44 

Cobbett, William, 19, 263 

Coborn, Charles, 41, 123, 124 

Coburg Theatre, the, 68 

Coddington, Captain, 203 

Coffee Shop Gal, The. See Comic 
Songs 

Coffin, Hayden, 88 

Cohen, Arthur, 251, 255 

Colas, Stella, 79 

Cole, Lieut., the ventriloquist, 58 

Coleridge, Justice, 135 

Coliseum, the. See the London 
Coliseum 

Collette, Charles, 181 

CoUier, Constance, 200 

Collins, Arthur, 249 

Collins, Lottie, 43 

Collins, Mortimer, 18 

CoUins, Sam, 96 

Collins, WiUde, 172 

Colonel, The, 71 

Colonna, 105 

Come where the Booze is cheaper. 
See Comic Songs 

Comedie Franjaise, 23 

Comedy Opera Company, 202 

Comic Songs — 
Act on the Square, 93 ; After the 
Opera is Over, 37 ; As I vos a- 
valkin', 35 ; 'Arry, 54 ; Boy's Best 
Friend, A , 125 ; Boy J Love, The, 
49; Camptown Races, 119; Captain 
Cuff, 37, loi ; Captain Jinks, 102 ; 
Cerulea was Beautiful, 10 1 ; 
Champagne Charley, 36, 53, 66, 93; 
Chickaleary Bloke, 93, 98 ; iZlic- 
quot, 93 ; Coal Black Rose, The, 
119; Coifee Shop Gal, The, 54; 
Come where the Booze is cheaper, 



288 



INDEX 



Comic Songs — continued 

8 ; Cool Burgundy Ben, 93 ; 
Damned Scamp, if ever there 
was a, 94 ; Don't you hear dem 
Bells, 120 ; Faust, 34 ; Flying 
Trapeze, The, loi ; Fresh, fresh, 
61 ; German Band, The, 98 ; 
Get your Hair cut, 98; Hamlet, 
Prince of Denmark, 34 ; Hi-tiddly- 
hi-ti-ti, 10 1 ; His Lordship 
winked at the Counsel, 8; Hit 
him on the Boko, 37 ; If you want 
to know the Time, ask a Pleeceman, 
68 ; I wish I was with Nancy, 92 ; 
Jim Crow, 119 ; Kemo Kimo, 36 ; 
La-di-da, 96 ; Let 'Em All Come, 
98 ; Milk for the Twins, 48 ; 
Mind you inform your Father, 60 ; 
Moet and Chandon, 93 ; Mouse 
Traps, 37 ; Not for Joe, 97, 98 ; 
Oh I Jeremiah ! Jeremiah ! 49 ; 
Oliver Twist, 34 ; Paddle your 
Own Canoe, 103 ; Perfect Cure, 
The, 38 ; PoUywollyatno, 98 ; 
Pulling hard against the Stream, 
103 ; Racketty Jack, i^-j ; Rat- 
catcher's Daughter, 35 ; Riding on 
a Donkey, 37, 101 ; Rocky Road to 
Dublin, 96 ; Rollicking Rams, 37 ; 
Romano's, 60 ; Slap Bang, here 
we are again, 44, 98 ; Sparkling 
Moselle, 93 ; Sweet Nellie's Blue 
Eyes, 124 ; Sweet Violets, 54 ; Ta- 
ra-ra-hoom-de-ay, 43; The Whole 
Hogor None, g2 ; There' s' Air, gS; 
They're all very fine and large, 10 1 ; 
Tooral-laddy, 58 ; Two Girls of 
Good Society, 60 ; Two Lovely 
Black Eyes, 123 ; Up and down 
the City Road, 68 ; Up in a 
Balloon, 37, 10 1 ; Villikins and 
his Dinah, 35 ; Walking in the 
Zoo, 10 1 ; Wait till the Turn of 
the Tide, loi ; Wanted a Governess, 
155 ; We Don't Want to Fight, 94, 
95, 100 ; Wot Cheer, Ria P 55 ; 
Zazel ! Zazel I 10 1 

Command performance, the, 140 

Compton, Henry, 93 ^ 

Comus, the masque of, 44 

Conquest, George, 69 

Conquest, Madame, 69 

Conrad and Lisette, 202 

Consuelo, Agnes, 88 

Consul, 209 

Contes Marines, Les, 173 



Cool Burgundy Ben. See Comic 

Songs 
Cooper, Margaret, 167, 213 
Coote, Charles, 103 
Coppelia (Empire ballet), 107 
Coppi, M., 107 
Coquette, The, 173 
Corinthian Club, the, 86, 124, 125, 

127 
Corlett, John, 251 
Comelys, Madam, 122 
Corri, Henry, 149 
Corri, Montague, 96 
Corsair, Le, 104 
Corsican Brothers, The, 239 
Cosham, Handel, 18 
Cosmotheca Music Hall, 48 
Cost of theatrical productions, 215 
Coster song, the &rst, 93 
Cotieres, 9 

Cottage Library, the, 272 
Country Girl, The, 109 
Court and Society Review, The, 276 
Court fools, 258 

Court Theatre, the, 80, 147, 150, 172 
Courtneidge, Robert, 36, 199 
Covent Garden, 257 
Cowell, Sam, 34, 35, 43, 155, 210 
Cox, Harry, 235 
Co3me, Fred, 211 
Craven House, 80 
Cremorne, 7, 11, 12, 13, 14 
Creswick, William, 73, 109 
Criterion comedy, 113 
Criterion Theatre, 123, 148, 172 
Cross, Mr, Home Secretary, 187 
Cruikshank, George, 8, 123 
Cruikshank, Robert, 123 
Crutch and Toothpick, 262 
Crystal Palace, 85, 86, 186 
Cuckoo, The, I'jg 
Cupid in A rcadia, 106 
Cupid, Mrs Kendal as, lo 
Cushman, Charlotte, 115 
Cyprians' Ball, the, 123 

D 

Dacre, Arthur, 89 

Daily Courier, 276 

Daily Graphic, 30 

Daily Mail. 5 

Daily News, 30 

Daily Paper,- The, 276 

Daly, Augustin, 72, 113, 114 , 

Daly's Theatre, 71, 92, 113 



289 



INDEX 



Dame aux Camilias, 29, 172 
Damned Scamp. See Comic Songs 
DanceDream, The (Alhambra ballet), 

107 
Dance, George, 8, 206 
Dancers, English, 197, 198 
Dancing Doll, The (Empire ballet), 

107 
D'Anka, CorneUle, 106 
Danse, La (Empire ballet), 107 
Dark Arches, the, 43 
Darned mounseer, the, 148 
Darrell, Maude, no, 145 
D'Arville, Camille, 88 
Daughter ofHeth, A, 278 
Davenport Brothers, the, 157 
David Elginbrod, 21 
David Garrick, 237 
Davis, James, 204, 251 
Day Off (Alhambra ballet), 107 
Dead-heads, 128 
Dearer than Life, 262 
Death on the stage, 93 
Debutante, The (Empire ballet), 107 
De Freece, 159 
Delicate Ground, 10 
Denville, Clara, 9, 10 
De Pinna, 188 

Desdemona, Mrs Kendal as, 10 
Despatch, The, 5 
Devil's Forge, The (Alhambra ballet), 

107 
Dewar, Mr, 235 
Diana (Empire ballet), 107 
Diary of an Actress, The, 11 
Diary of a London Playgoer, 244 
Dick Sheridan, 174 
Dickens, Charles, 2, 3, 28, 38, 62, 

75, 77, 155, 179, 239 
Didcott, Ilugh Jay, 93, 142, 143, 

144, 145, 146, 122 
Dido, 240, 241 
Dilara (Empire ballet), 107 
Disraeli, 96, 248 
Dixey, Henty E. (Adonis), 116 
Dr Johnson, the, 44, 81 
Dolaro, Selina, 73, 106 
Dolly (Empire ballet), 107 
Don, Sir William and Lady, 11 
Don Juan, 105, 109 
Don Juan (Alhambra ballet), 17 
Don Juan (Gaiety burlesque), 149, 

Von Quixote (Alhambra ballet), 107 
Donald, John, 137 
Donna, Anna, 238 



Donnyhrook (Alhambra ballet), 107 
Don't you hear dem Bells? See 

Comic Songs 
Doran, Dr, 258 
Dorothy, 71, 200, 228 
Dot, 260 

Douglass, John, 67, 182 
Dowty, A. A. (O. P. Q. Philander 

Smifi). 29 
•Dream of Wealth, A (Empire ballet), 

107 
Dresdina (Alhambra ballet), 106 
Drew, John, 113 
Drink, 79 
Drury Lane, 46 
Drury Lane of the East, 63 
Drury Lane Theatre, 12, 13, 67, 73, 

144, 163, 172, 174, 182, 218, 223, 

240, 241, 242, 249, 260 
Dubosc, 227 
Duke's Motto, The, 239 
Duke's Theatre, 82, 224 
Dumas, Alexandre, 29 
Dunning, Alice, 91 
Dupe, Jemmy, ig 
Durand, 252 
Durham House, 43 
Duval, Marie, 275 
Dyas, Ada, 262 



Eagle Tavern, the, 69, 76 

Earl's Court, 

East End amusements, 63 

East London Theatre, 65, 66 

East Lynne, 8 

Echo, The, I'j'j 

Edmund, 9 

Educated Seals, 188 

Edward I., 43 

Edward VII., 29, 52, 73, 87, 88, 136, 

137. 138, 139. 165, 175, 259 
Edwardes, George, 38, 89, 114, 117, 

150, 195, 197, 203, 205, 228, 246, 

247, 249, 250, 251, 253, 254, 255, 

256 
Edwards, Passmore, 277 
Edwards and Roberts, 41 
EfELngham Saloon, 65 
Egerton Bompas, 151 
Eglinton Tournament, 14 
Eighteen-thirty (Alhambra ballet), 

107 
Eldorado Music Hall, 87 



290 



INDEX 



El Dorado (Paris), 220 

Eldred, Joseph, 246, 247 

Eleanor's Victory, 241 

Elginbrod,David,2i 

Elizabeth of Bohemia, 80 

Elvino, 235, 238 

Ely Place, 4 

Empire Theatre, 83, 86, 87, 88, 89, 

90, 107, 108, 109, 135, 148, 161, 

163, 198, 208, 214, 225, 226, 266 
Empire Theatre, Edinburgh, 139 
Enchanted Forest, The, 106 
Enchantment (Alhambra ballet), 107 
Enfant Prodigue, L' (Auber's), 86, 

104 
England, 278 
Englebach, 206 
Entente Cordiale (Alhambra ballet), 

107 
Era, The, 31, 58, 60, 67, 184, 251 
Era Almanack, The, 12 
Etheldreda, St., 4 
Etheiington, Marie, 19, 200 
Eugenie, the Empress, 29 
Evans's, 35, 124 
Evening News, 276 
Evening Times, 278 
Evenngton, Mary, 11 
Eversrman Library, 272 
Examiner, The, 244 
Excelsior fbaUet), 109 



Fair Rosamund, 94 

Fairies' Home, The, 106 

Fall, Leo, 228 

FalstafE Club, 124 

Family Herald, 2 74 

Far From the Madding Crowd, 244 

Farini, G. A., 187, 221 

Farmer, Hem'y, 258 

Farmer, John, 258 

Famie, H. B., 173, 221 

Farrell. See Macdermott 

Farrell, NelUe, 58 

Farren, Nellie, 68, 242, 247, 248, 

250. 253. 254. 260 
Farren, Old, 207 
Fatal parachute descent, 14 ; 

Middlesex, 49 
" Father of the Music Hall," 32 
Father Prout, 55 
Fatinitza, 106 
Faucit, Helen, 242 



Faust (Empire ballet), 107 

Faust (Gounod's), 33 

Faust at His Majesty's, 225 

Faust, the Lyceimi, 225, 227 

Faust, 252 

Fawn, James, 68 

Fechter, 143, 239 

Femina (Alhambra ballet), 107 

Fernandez, James, 76 

Fidelia (Alhambra ballet), 107 

Fielding, 1 74 

Figaro, The London, 28 

Figaro,^ The Paris, 148 

FUle de Madame Angot, La, 106, 22 1 

Fille du Tambour Major, La, 106 

Fire King, the, 14 

First Avenue Hotel, the, 82 

First Love waltz, the, 259 

Fitzgeorges, the, 177 

Fitzroy Theatre, 236 

Fledermaus, Die, 106 

Fleet Prison, 122 

Fletcher of Saltoun, 97 

Flexmore, 259 

Florodora, 204 

Flower Queen. The, 106 

Flying Scud, The, 82 

Flying Trapeze, The. See Comic 
Songs 

Follow On, 117 

Folly Theatre, 71, 81 

Foote, Samuel, 147 

Forbes, Archibald, 175 

Foresters' Music Hall, the, 48 

Formosa, 242 

Forrest, Edwin, 115 

Forster, John, 24 

Forty Thieves. 163, 247 

Four Elements, FSte of the, 14 

Fox, Harry, 47 

Fox, Rose, 109 

Franco-German War, 243 ; (Alham- 
bra riots), 87, 105 

Fregoli, 156 

French hospital, the, 141 

Fretillon, 106 

Friends, by whose Side we were breast- 
ing, oh ! 2 

Friswell, Hain, 274 

Frohman, Charles, 114, 115, 218 

FroUque,La (Empire ballet), 107 

Fuller, Loie, 109 

Fun, 2, 3, 275 

Funny Folks, 275 

Fumival's Inn, 4 

Fushima, Prince, 148 



291 



INDEX 



Gaiety Bar, the, 30 
Gaiety choristers, 196 
Gaiety, Edinburgh, 160 
Gaiety Girl, The, 150, 204 
Gaiety Quartette, the, 248 
Gaiety Theatre, the, 23, 38, 44, 71, 

81, 109, 117, 124, 133, 180, 181, 

196, 200, 201, 205, 206, 239, 246- 

256 
Gamester, The, 9 
Gammon, Barclay, 153 
Gardenia Club, 125, 126 
Garrick Club, 30, 169 
Garrick Club, the Junior, 61 
Garrick Theatre, 168, 176 
Garrick Theatre (Whitechapel), 74 ; 
' Gaspard, 221 
Gay, John, 202 

Gay City, The (Alhambra ballet), 107 
Gay Parisienne, The, 206 
Geisha, The, 204 
Gem of Comedy, the, 58 
Genee, Adelina, 108, 136, 209 
Gentleman Joe, 205 
Gentleman's Magazine, The, 274 
George Barnwell, 10 
George III., 87 
George v., 139 

German Band, The. See Comic Songs 
Get your Hair cut. See Comic Songs 
Gilbert, Mrs G. H., 113 
Gilbert, W. S., i, 2, 3, 147, 148, 181, 

205, 239 
Gilbert and Sullivan, 71, 81, 154, 202 
Gilchrist, Connie, 109, 135 
Giovanelli, 85 
Girl I Left Behind Me, The (Empire 

ballet), 107 
Gladstone, the Rt. Hon. W. E., 27, 

119, 147, 166 
Glittering Star of Erin, The, 58 
Globe, The, 30 
Globe Insurance frauds, 80 
Globe Theatre, 71, 72, 81, log, 131, 

169, 219, 220 
Glover, J. M., 164 
Godfrey, Charles, 62, 102 
Godfrey, G. W., 172 
Godwin, E. W., 174 
Goldberg, Willie, 251 
Golden Wreath, The (Alhambra 

ballet), 106 
Goldsmith, Oliver, 177 
Gooch family, the, 80 



Good for Nothing, 54 

Good Words, 86, 274 

Goodall, Bella, 235 

Gkjudie frauds, 44 

Goulue, La, 126 

Gounod, 33, 263 

Grace Darling, 68 

Grain, Corney, 153 

Grand Theatre, Islington, 73, 74, 224 

Grand Duchess, The, 106 

Grand Duke, The, 148 

Grant, Baron, 277 

Graphic, The, 276 

Gray, Mabel, 123 

Gray, Paul, 3 

Gray's Inn, i 

Graydon, J. L., 47, 49 

Grecian Saloon, 65 

Grecian Theatre, 65, 68, 69, 73, 76, 

94. 185 
Green, Paddy, 35 
Green Room Club, 9, 83, 262, 263 
Greenwich Fair, 258 
Greet, William, 206 
Gretchen in Rip, 240 
Gretna Green (Alhambra ballet), 107 
Greville, Colonel, 123 
Grey, Marie de, 2 1 
Grey, Sylvia, 109 
Griffiths, D. W., 270 
Grimaldi, 132 
Groof, De, 14 
Gros, Henri, 36 
Grossmith, George, 154 
Grosvenor, the Sisters, 61 
Grundy, Sidney, 25 
Guide to Paris, The (Alhambra 

ballet), 107 
Guilbert, Yvette, 141, 148, 214 
Guy Domville, 170, 171 
Guy Mannering, 11 
Gwynne, Nell, 46 

H 

Hague's Minstrels, Sam, 231 
Haidee, Cissy Loftus as, igo 
Hales, T. G., 163 
Hall, Owen, 150, 204 
Hamilton, Kate, 123 
Hamilton, Lady, no 
Hamlet, 27, 74, 80, 239 
Hamlet, Mr, 79 

Hamlet, Prince of Denmark. See 
Comic Songs 



292 



INDEX 



Hammerstein, Oscar, 117 
Hammersteia's London Opera 

House, 72 
Handy Man, The (Alhambra ballet), 

107 
Hanlon, Bob, 84 
Happy Land, 147, 199 
Hard Times, 62 
Hardy, Dudley, 275 
Hardy, Thomas, 244 
Hare, Sir John, 168, 224, 238 
Harmsworths, the, 276 
Harp Tavern, 12 
Harris, Augustus, 13, 67, 89, 131, 

163, 164, 165, 166, 182, 183, 205, 

223, 240, 262, 266 
Harris, the elder, 238 
Harris, Charles, 223 
Hart, Emma, no 
Harvey, Bonnie Kate, 58 
Hastings, Gilbert (Macdermott), 94 
Hathaway, Miss, 11 
Hatton, Joseph, 273 
Haverley Minstrels, 115 
Hawaya (Alhambra baUet), 106 
Hawk, The, 174, 175, 204, 276 
Hawkesley, Captain, 236 
Hawkins, Mr Justice, 204 
Hawtrey, Charles, 109, 209 
Haymarket Theatre, 42, 130, 154, 

237, 240, 241, 244 
He revelled 'neath the Moon, 13 
Health Exhibition, the, 14 
Heart of Midlothian, 75 
Heartsease, 29, 30, 172 
Heenan, John C, 75, 84 
Helen, 10 

Henderson, Alexander, 221, 237 
Hengler's Circus, 136 
Henry IV., Part I., 11 
Henry V., 163 
Henry VIII., 43 
Henty, G. A., 273 
Herbert, Miss, 241 
Herman, Henry, 28 
Hermitage, the, Streatham, 54 
Herv6, 198 

Hicks, Seymour, 166, 209, 254 
Hicks Theatre, 72 
High Jinks (Empire ballet), 108 
Highbury Bam, 85 
Hildyard, Watty, 259 
Hill, Caroline, 82 
Hill, Jennie, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 58, 

118, 212 
Hippodrome, the London, 160 



Hippomenes (J. M. Barrie), 19 
His Lordship winked at the Counsel. 

See Comic Songs 
His Majesty's Theatre, 71, 109, 223, 

225 
Hi-tiddly-hi-ti-ti. See Comic Songs 
Hit him on the Boko. See Comic 

Songs 
Hitchens, H. J., 87 
Ho I The Devil had me once, 19 
Hobson, Captain, 188, 189 
Hodson, Henrietta, 262 
Hogg, James, 274 
Holborn, 3 

Holborn Amphitheatre, 82 
Holborn Casino, 123 
Holborn Restaurant, 123 
Holborn Viaduct, 6 
Hole, Dean, 17, 18 
Holland, William, 37, 57, 136 
HoUingshead, John, 12, 23, 69, 86, 

109, 124, 150, 179, 180, 181, 194, 

210, 247, 248, 249, 250, 255 
Holt, Clarence, 136, 155 
Home Chimes, 62, 274 
Honey, George, 74 
Honeymoon, The, 10 
Honnor, Mrs, 74 
Hood, Captain Basil, 205 
Hood, Tom, i, 2, 3 
Horton, Miss Priscilla, 156 
Hotel Libre Exchange, 113 
House that John and William Built, 

The, 7 
Household Words, 179 
Hughes, Miss, 238 
Hugo, Victor, 224 
Hunchback, The, 10 
Hunt, G. W,. 100, loi 
Hylton, Millie, 58 



Ideala (Alhambra ballet), 106 

If ever there was a Damned Scamp. 

See Comic Songs 
// you want to know the Time, ask a 

Pleeceman. See Comic Songs 
/ have a silent Sorrow here, 10 
Illustrated London News, The, 276 
Imperial Theatre, 52, 76, 77 
Innocence waltz, 103 
In Town, 202, 203, 253 
Iowa Indians, the, 229 
I revelled 'neath the Moon, 13 



293 



INDEX 



Irena (Alhambra ballet), 107 

Iron Chest, The, 227 

Irving, Ethel, 

Irving, Henry, 21, 26, 77, 94, 115, 

116, 130, 132, 150, 157, 171, 200, 

224, 225, 226, 227, 238, 239, 246, 

248, 257, 262 
It's Never Too Late to Mend, 79, 240 
Ivanhoe, 162 

I've been photographed like this, 194 
Ivy Hall, 238 
/ wish I was with Nancy. See Comic 

Songs 
Ixion, 10, 241 

J 

Jack Ashore (Alhambra ballet), 107 

Jack Harkaway's School Days, 273 

Jack Harkaway at Oxford, 273 

Jack Harkaway Afloat, 273 

Jacks and Jills, 172 

Jacobi, Georges, 87, 106 

James, David, 240 

James, Henry, 17P, 171 

James, Katie, 253 

James's (St), Hall, 91 

James's (St), Theatre, 75, 92 

Jeanie Deans, 74 

Jefierson, Joseph, 115, 223, 239 

Jeffries, Ellis, 200 

Jester, the King's, 139 

Jeune, Lady, 27 

Jim Crow, 119 

Jingo, 160 

Jo. 77 

John Bull, 10 

John Mildmay, 236 

Johnny Ludlow, 274 

Johnson, Dr, 4, 147 

Johnson (The Dr) "Tavern, 44 

Johnson, E., 74 

Johnson, Monsieur, 148 

Johnson, Winifred, 270 

Jolie Parfumeuse, La, 106 

Jones, Henry Arthur, 263 

Jones, Kennedy, 276 

Josephs, Fanny, 235, 238 

Judge and Jury, 12, 83 

Judy, 275 

Julia Mannering, in Guy Mannering, 

Mrs Kendal as, 11 
Juliet, 9 ; Stella Colas as, 79 
Junior Garrick Club, the, 61 
Just before the Battle, Mother, 120 
Justice May, 150 



K 



Kahn's (Dr) Museum, 41 
Kaiser, the, 148 
Kate Kearney (Mrs Kendal), 11 
Kate O'Brien in Perfection, Mrs 

Kendal as, 1,1 
Katrina (Empire ballet), 107 
Kean, Charles, 79, 223 
Keith, B. F., 54, 77, 78 
Kelly, Father, 64 
Kelly, Walter C, 167 
Kemo, Kimo. See Comic Songs 
Kendal, Mrs, 7, 10 ; as a vocalist, 11, 

239 
Kendal, W. H., 235 
Kettle Club, the, 20 
Kilyany's Living Pictures, 165 
King of Clubs, the (Russell), 124 
King George, 135 
King Kodak, 249 
King Lear, g 
King of the Claque, 134 
King of Spain, Jerry as the, 248 
King's Jester, the, 139 
King's Road, 14 
Kiralfys, the, 104, 131 
Kissi-Kissi, 149 
Knight, Joseph, 30 
Knowles, R. G., 118, 124, 154, 213, 

270 
Knowles, Sheridan, 241 
Koster and Bials, 78 
Krao, 188 



La ! Sonnambula, 234 

Labouchere, Henry, 77, 187 

La-di-da. See Comic Songs 

Lady A udley's Secret, 241 

Lady of Lyons, The, 10 

Lady Ptarmigant, 243 

Lady Percy in Henry IV., Part I., 

Mrs Kendal as, 11 
Lady Slavey, The, 206 
Lady Teazle, Kate Vaughan as, 109 
Lafayette, the great, 140 
Lager in London, the first, 43 
Lamb, Charles, 259 
Lambert, the Brothers, 7 
Lambert, Streyke, 148 
Lancaster, Jolm, 72 
Lane, Harriet, 67 
Lane, Mrs Sara, 63, 64, 65 



294 



INDEX 



Lane, Samuel, 65 

Langtry, Mrs, 76, 176, 194, 257 

Lanner, Katti, io8 

Larkiii, Sophie, 238, 243 

Lashwood, George, 38 

Last Journey of Despair, 28 

Lauder, Harry, 139, 208 

Laura Leeson, 10 

Laurent's Casino, 123 

Lauri troupe, 14, 211 

Laurillard, Edward, 206 

Lawson, Mr Lionel, 247 

Lawson, Sir Edward, 26 

Leah Kleshna, 117 

Leamar, the Sisters, 60 

Lear, King, 226 

Lederer, George, 117, 118 

Ledger, Edward, 184 

Ledger, Frederick, 184 

Lee, Alf, 10 1 

Lee, Jennie, 77, 199 

Lee, Nelson, 74 

Leicester House, 87 

Leicester Square, 83, 277 

Leigh, Henry S., 3, 68 

Leisure Hour, The, 274 

Leland, C. G., 3 

Lemaltre, Frederic, 237 

Leno, Dan, 41, 48, 56, 57, 118, 137, 

138, 139. 262 
Leonard, 69 
Leonati, 211 

Leotard, 84, 85, 210, 211 
LeporeUo, 238 
Leslie, Fred, 254 
Leslie, H. J., 228 
Let Em All Come. See Comic 

Songs 
Lethbridge, Alice, 109 
Leuville, the Marquis de, 181 
Levenston, Michael, 255 
Lewes, G. H., 24 
Lewis, Cokey, 60 
Lewis, James, 113 
Lewis, Sam, 125 
Lewis, Sir George, 150 
Leybourne, George, 36, 37, 38, 41, 

43. 53. 66, 93, 94, loi, 155, 211, 

230 
Life of Pleasure, A , 89 
Lights of London, The, 11, 80 
Lind, Letty, 109 
Lingard, Miss, 91 
IJngard, William (Horace), 36, 91, 

242 
Lion King, the, 258 



Lisa, 235 

List men, 33 

Liston, Harry, 155 

Little Don Ccesar, 248 

Little Don Giovanni, 238 

Little George (Dan Leno), 48 

Little Jack Sheppard, 250, 254 

Little Minister, The, 15 

Little Treasure, The, 9 

Litton, Marie, 74, 77, 187 

Lloyd, Arthur, 37, 41, 92, 93, 94, 

98, 136, 137, 155, 242 
Lloyd, Marie, 48, 49, 67, 137, 214 
Lochinvar (Albjamlsra ballet), 107 
Loftus, Cissie, 95, 150, 214 
Loibl, E., 41, 53 
Londesborough, Lord, 124, 223 
London to Paris, 164 
London backwater, a, i 
London catch words, 98 
London Coliseum, the, 44, 136, 137, 

148,208, 231, 232 
London County Council, 70, 78, 87, 

190, 191 
London Day by Day, 208 
London Figaro, The, 29 
London General Omnibus Company, 

6 
London Hippodrome, 44, 160, 161, 

209 
London Idol, 58 
London Journal, 273 
London Opera House, the, 72 
London Pavilion, the, 40, 41, 42, 

43. 53. 55. 58. 78, 94. 95. 97. 124. 

139. 242 
London Reader, 273 
Long's Hotel, 41 
Lonnen, E. J., 252, 253 
Lope De Vego (the) of Adelphi 

farce, 25 
Lord Dundreary, 241 
Lord Ptarmigant, 238 
Loseby, Constance, 106 
Lost theatres of London, 70 
Lotos Club, the, 124 
Louis XI., 9 
Love's Sacrifice, 11 
Lowe, Mr Robert, 147 
Lowenfeld, H., 173 
Lucas, Seymour, 227 
Lulu, 187, 211 
Lumiere, 261 
Lumley, Ralph, 260 
Lundberg, Ada, 58 
Lunn, Kirby, 161 



295 



INDEX 



Lusitania, 114 

Lutz, Meyer, 250 

Lyceum Theatre, the, 26, 74, 105, 

115, 169, 171, 198, 199, 224, 225, 

226, 230, 239, 246 
Lyons Mail, The, 227 
Ljric Club, 124 

Lyric Theatre, the, 71, 163, 218, 246 
L3rtton, the Earl of, 80 

M 

Macaulay, 17 

Macbeth, 11, 144 

Maccabe, Frederick, 156, 157 

M'Clellan, C. M. S., 117 

Macdermott, G. H., 41, 43, 94, 95, 

100, 212 
Macdonald of The Times, 5 
M'Dougall, Sir John, 191 
Mackay, Charles, 154 
Mackenzie, Morell, 26 
Mackney, the great, 58, 91, 92, 155 
Macomo, 258 
Macready, W.S., 115, 194 
Macready riots, the, 115 
Macs, the two, 212 
Maddick, Dr Distin, 82, 245 
Madeleine (in Belphegor), 10 
Mahomey (Bessie Bellwood), 55 
Maid and the Magpie, 10 
Major Galbraith, in JRob Roy, 9 
Man Fish, the 14 
Man Fly, the, 14 
Manders's menagerie, 258 
Mann, Dick, 20 
Mansell, Richard, 149 
Mansfield, Richard, 116 
Mansfield Flower Show, 17 
Mapleson, Colonel, 72, 108 
Margaret Elmore in Love's Sacrifice, 

Mrs Kendal as, 11 
Margherita (Alhambra ballet), 106 
Marguerite, Gautier, 29, 172 
Maria, Mrs Kendal as, in George 

Barnwell, 10 
Marius, 252 
Marks, Harry, 169 
Marney, Lily, 59 
Marriage, 150 
Married Life, 10 
Marriott, Miss, 74, 241 
Marseillaise, the, 105 
Martin, Fred, 268 
Mary and John. See Comic Songs 



Marylebone Gardens, 4 
Marylebone Music Hall, 51 
Marylebone Theatre, 73, 74 
Mary Thornbury in John Bull. Mrs 

Kendal as, 10 
Masetto, 238 
Mathews, the elder, 154 
Mathews, Charles, 241 
Mattei, Tito, 107 
Matthews, Julia, 106 
May, Edna, 117 
May Edwards in The Ticket-of-Leave 

Man, Mrs Kendal as, 11 
May, Phil, 222, 223, 275 
Maynard, A., 48, 143 
Maurice, H. J., 144 
Mazeppa, 75 

Meadows, Drinkwater, 249 
Melusine (Alhambra ballet), 106 
Menken, Adah Isaacs, 75, 76, 241 
Mephisto, 252, 253 
Mercers' School, 4 
Merchant of Venice, The, 10 
Mercutio (Wilson Barrett), 80 
Merivale, Herman, 199 
Merritt, Paul, 13, 69, 223, 224 
Merry War, The, 106 
Merry Widow, The, 205, 228, 255 
Metropole Theatre, 73 
Metropolitan Board of Works, 41 
MetropoUtan Music Hall, 36, 104 
Meyerbeer, 240 
Micawber, 248 
Middlesex Music Hall, 46, 47, 48, 

49., 104 
Mikado, The, 148 
Milburn, Annie, 93 
Mildmay, John, 236 
Milk for the Twins. See Comic 

Songs 
Millais, J. E., 186 
Milliner Duchess, The (Empire 

ballet), 107 
Million, The, 276 
Million of Money, ^,174 
Mind the Paint Girl, The, 151 
Mind you inform your Father. See 

Comic Songs 
Mirth, 275 
Modern Eve, A, 28 
Modjeska, Madame, 21, 29, 80, 172 
Moet and Chandon. See Comic 

Songs 
Mogul Tavern, 46, 48 
Mahoney. See Bellwood 
Mokeiana, 3 



296 



INDEX 



Molesworth, Captain, i88, 191 

Money, 168 

Monte Christo (Etopire ballet), 107 

Montgomery, Walter, 9, 10, 74 

Montmartre, 46 

Montiose, the Duchess of, 151 

Moonshine, 275 

Moore, Augustus, no, 174, 175, 176, 

201, 204 
Moore and Burgess Minstrels, 120 
Moore, G. W., 120, 121 
Moore, Mary, 200 
Morgan, Matt, 3 
Morley, Henry, 79, 244, 272 
Morley's Universal Library, 272 
Morning, The, 5 
Morocco Bound, 202 
Morris, Mowbray, 5 
Mors et Vita, 263 
Mortimer, James, 28, 29, 172 
Morton, Charles, 32, 33, 35, 36, 38, 

39, 45, 74, 86, 91, 164, 165, 166, 

167, 210 
Morton, Maddison, 25 
Morton, Richard, 43 
Moss Empires, 161 
Moss, James, 159 

Moss, Sir Edward, 139, 159, 160, 161 
" Moss's," Edinburgh, 139 
Moss and Stoll, 160, 161 
Mother Goose, 52 
Motto songs, 103 
Motts, 123 

Moulin Rouge, the, 127 
Mouse Traps. See Comic Songs 
M.P., 243 
Mrs Lionel Lynx, Mrs Kendal as, in 

Married Life, 10 
Mrs Fitzsmyth in The Nottingham 

Ladies' Club, Mrs Kendal as, 1 1 
Mulholland, J. B., 73 
Munro, Viscount Walter, 58 
Murphy Maguire, 236 
Murray, David Christie, 6, 28 
Murray, Henry, 176, 179 
Music halls, growth in the provinces, 

159 
Music hall agents. See Agent 
Music hall sketches, 50 
Music hall strike the, 212 
My Indian Garden, 177 
My Lady Nicotine, 19 
My Lady Nicotine (Alhambra ballet), 

107 
My Queen Waltz, 60 
My Sweetheart, 202 



N 



Nadia (Alhambra ballet), 107 

Nagel, Archibald, 211 

Nan, in Good for Nothing, 54 

Napoleon III., 29 

Nash, Jolly John, 44, 94, 136, 137, 

.T*43 

Nathan, Ben, 151 

Nation, W. H. C, 245 

National Opera House, 72 

National Sporting Club, 66, 124, 144 

Nations, Les, 104 

Negro minstrelsy, 118, 119, 120 

Nell Gwynne Club, the, 126 

Nerissa in The Merchant of Venice, 

Mrs Kendal as, 10 
Nesbitt, Mrs, 237 

Neville, Henry, 25, 81, 242, 261, 262 
New Babylon, 82, 224 
New Club, 124 
New Cut, The, 55, 60 
New Scotland Yard, 72 
New York, English visitors to, 54 
New York Casino, 117 
New York music halls, 77, 78 
Newgate pastoral, a, 202 
Newgate Walk, the, 4 
Newnes, George, 276 
Niagara, 187 

Nicol (of the Cafe Royal), 88 
Nicholson, Baron, 12, 14 
Night Out, A,xj.$ 
Nile Street, Hoxton, 64 
Nina (Alhambra ballet), 106 
Ninette in The Maid and the Magpie, 

Mrs Kendal as, 10 
Nisbet of The Times, 5, 6 
Nisita (Empire ballet), 107 
Nobleman's Son, The, 58 
North London Collegiate School, 95 
North Woolwich Gardeas, 211 
Not for Jo. See Comic Songs 
Notes and Queries, 30 
Nottingham Alhambra, the, 7, 8 
Nottingham Guardian, The, 18 
Nottingham Journal, The, 15, 16, 17, 

18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23 
Nottingham Ladies' Club, The, 11 
Nottingham Theatre Royal, 7, 8, 9, 

10, II 
Nun nicer, 194 

O 

Odger, George, 99 

Oh ! Jeremiah. See Comic Songs 



297 



INDEX 



Old China (Empire ballet), 107 

Old Jew, An, 25 

Old-time performers, 56 

Oliver Twist, 68 

Oliver Twist. See Comic Songs 

O'Leary, Father, 64 

Olympia, 163, 266 

Olympic Theatre, the, 80, 81, 133, 

241 
On Brighton Pier (Empire ballet), 

107 
On the Bridge, 102 
On the Heath (Alhambra ballet), 107 
On the Ice (Alhambra ballet), 107 
On the Sands (Alhambra ballet), 107 
On the Square (Alhambra ballet)., 107 
On Trial, 206 
Once a Week, 274 

Opera Boufie, beginning of, 39, 74 
Opera Comique, 71, 81, 176 
Opera House, Hammerstein's, 

London, 72 
Opera House, the Royal English, 72 
Orange Bloisoms, 276 
Ordered to the Front (Empire ballet), 

107 
Orfeo (Empire ballet), 107 

Organiser of success, the, 134 
Original Tootsie Sloper, the, 59 
Orphee aux Enfers, 106 

Ophelia, Mrs Kendal as, 10 

Orton, Arthur, 99 

Orietta (Alhambra ballet), 107 

Osborne, Bernal, 18 

Osborne, Bob, 33 

Othello, 10, 116 

Ouida, 211 

Our Boys, 240 

Our Crown (Empire ballet), 107 

Our Flag (Alhambra ballet), 107 

Our Flat, 82 

Our River (Empire ballet), 107 

Ours, 243 

Owl, The, 168 

Owl's Roost, the, 25, 237, 243 

Oxenford, John, 25, 79, 241, 242 

Oxford, the (music hall), 36, 38, 39, 
42, 49, 164, 242 

Oxford Fair (St Giles's), 269 



Paddle your own Canoe. See Comic 

Songs 
Page, E. v., 96 



Paget, Lord Alfred, 195 

Pal 0' Archie, 166 

Palace Theatre, 45, 72, 89, no, 116, 

135, 141, 154, 164, 165, 166, 167, 
209 
Palladino, 107 
Palm Club, 126 
Palmer, Minnie, 20 
Palmerston, 238 
Pan, 275 
Pandora, 87 
Panopticon, 83, 84 
Pantheon, 123 

Papillons, Les (Empire ballet), 107 
Paquita (Alhambra ballet), 107 
Paragon Music Hall, the, 66 
Paris Exhibition, The (Empire 

ballet), 107 
Parisian quadrille, the, 105 
Parisiana (Alhambra ballet), 107 
Park Theatre, the, 74 
Parry, John, 154, 155 
Parry, Sefton, 237 
Parvenu, The, 172 
Parthenon of Liverpool, the, 229, 

230, 231; 232 
Passing of the Third Floor Back, 121 
Pastor, Tony, 54, 78 
Pa the Fr^res, 268 
Patience, 147 
Patineurs, Les, 242 
Patrick's, Soho, St., 122 
Patti, 29 
Paul, 236 

Paul (of Leicester), 159 
Paul, Mr and Mrs Howard, 156 
Paul, R. W., 265, 266, 267 
Pauline, Mrs Kendal as, in Delicate 

Ground, 10 ; in TheLady of Lyons, 

10 
Paulton, Harry, 88 
Paulus, 88 
Pavilion Music Hall. See London 

Pavilion 
Pavilion Theatre, 63, 66, 67 
Pavlova, 109, 167, 198, 209 
Payne, Edmund, 253 
Payne, George Adney, 45, 145 
Payne, Harry, 259, 260 
Pearson, C. A., 276 
Peel, Sir Robert, 119 
Peggy, Kate Vaughan as, 109 
Pemberton, Edgar, 235, 243 
Penley, W. S., 219 
Penny Paul Pry, The, 46 
People, The, 278 



298 



INDEX 



People's Caterer, the, 37, 57 

People's Idol, the, 58 

Perfect Cure, The. See Comic Songs 

Perfection, n 

Perichole, La, 106 

Period, The, 276 

Pertoldi, 107 

Peter the Great, 87 

Petersen (Genee), 108 

Petite Mademoiselle, La, 106 

Pettie, Miss (Edna May), 117 

Pettitt, Henry, 13, 69, 89, 94, 95, 

132) 133, 174, 224, 261, 262 
Phelps, Samuel, 73, 74, 132, 242 

Phenyl, Dick, 151 
Philharmonic Hall (or Theatre), 39, 
74, 165, 222, 224 

Phillips, Kate, 199 

Phipps, the architect, 80 

Photography, stage, 193 

Picca(filly Saloon, 123 

Pick-Me-XJp, 275 

Pictorial World, The, 276 

Picture palace, the ideal, 269 

Pinero, Sir Arthur, 2, 244, 263 

Pip and the Viscount, 194 

Pitteri, 105 

Pizarro, 9 

Planche, J. R., 237 

Planet, The, 276 

Planquette, 221 

Play, 243 

Polly's Dilemma, 20 

PoUywoUyamo. See Comic Songs 

Polytechnic, 84, 266 

Pongo, 188 

Pop goes the Weazle. See Comic 
Songs 

Poses Plastigues, 83, 229 

Potash and Perlmutter, 206 

Poule aux CEufs d'Or, La, 106 

Power, Nellie, 96, 211 

Practical John, 250 

Press, The (Empire ballet), 107 

Prince's Theatre, 71 

Prince's Theatre, Manchester, 199 

Prince of Wales. See Edward VII. 

Prince of Wales's Club, 124 

Prince of Wales's Theatre, 71, 150, 
173, 185, 220, 234, 236, 237, 238, 
241 

Prince of Wales's Theatre, Liver- 
pool, 237 

Princess's Theatre, 9, 27, 73, 77, 79, 
80, 172, 173, 238, 240 

Princess of Trebizonde, 106 



Private Secretary, The, 109, 220 

Proctor, John, 275 

Promise of May, The, 169, 170 

Prout, Father, 55 

Prowse, Geoffrey, 2, 3 

Prudes on the Prowl. 88 

Pryde, Peggy, 55 

Psyche (Alhiambra ballet), 107 

Pulling hard against the Stream. 

See Comic Songs 
Punch, 3, 100, 166, 275 



Q 



Queen of Bohemia, 80 
Queen of my Heart, 228 
Queen of Spades (Alhambra ballet). 

107 
Queen of the Harvest waltz, 103 
Queen's Jester. 258 
Queen's Rooms, Greenock, 160 
Queen's Theatre, 71. 77 
Queensberry, the Marquis of. 169 



R 



Rachetty Jack. See Comic Songs 

Raherus. Prior. 185 

Raleigh, Cecil. 164. 251 

Ramsey. Scott. 148 

Randall, Harry, 212 

Rank and Riches, 172 

Rasselas, 4 

Rat-catcher's Daughter. See Comic 

Songs 
Ravenswood, 239 
Rayne, Evelyn, 174 
Raynor, Alfred, 66 
Reade, Charles, 79, 240 
Red Sleeves, The (Alhambra ballet), 

107 
Reed, Mr and Mrs German, 156 
Reed, Mr John, 229 
Reeve, Ada, 214 
Reeves, Sims, 38, 39, 88. 92. 186 
Referee, The, 5 
Regency Theatre, the, 236 
Regent Street, the virtuous end of, 

205 
Regular Randy Pandy Oh ! 
Rehan, Ada, 113 
Reinhardt, Mattie. 9 
Rejane. 23 
Rentals, London theatre, 218 



299 



INDEX 



Revolt of the Daughters, The (Alham- 

bra ballet), 107 
Revue, 166 
Rhodes, Cecil, 261 
Rice (the minstrel), 119 
Richard III., 262 
Richardson's Show, 74, 266 
Richlieu, 9 

Richmond, the Sisters, 60 
Rickards, Harry, loi, 158 
Riding on a Donkey. See Comic 

Songs 
Ridler's Hotel, 3 
Righton, Edward, 150 
Rignold, William, 172 
Rip Van Winkle, 223, 239, 254 
Ritchie, Josiah, 192 
Rivals, The, 244 
Riviere's band, 105 
Rob Roy, 9 
Robbers, The, 9 
Robert the Devil, 181 
Robert Macaire (Empire ballet), 

107 
Roberts, Charles, 143 
Roberts, Edwards and, 41 
Roberts, R. A., 157 
Roberts, Arthur, 203 
Robertson, Madge, 9, 10, 11 
Robertson, Mrs Ian, 30 
Robertson, Tom, 3, 25, 82, 234, 236, 

237. 239. 24°. 243, 244 ; Mrs, 243 
Robertson, Wybrow, 187, 188 
Robertsons, the, 7 
Robey, George, 135, 209, 213 
Robinson, F. W., 62 
Robinson, Phil, 177, 178, 179 
Robson, the "great little," 35 
Rock of Ages, 194 
Rocky Road to Dublin. See Comic 

Songs 
Rodolpho, 235 
Roi Carotte, Le, 105 
Rollicking Rams, The. See Comic 

Songs 
Romanos, 60, 251, 255 
Romeo, 9, 21 
Roper, Lionel, 151 
Rosa, Carl, 252 
Rosati, 104 

Rose d'Amour (Empire ballet), 107 
Roselle, Amy, 88, 89 
Ross, Adrian, 203 
Ross, C. H., 275 
Ross, W. G., 91, 124 
Rothomago (AUiambra ballet), 106 



Rotunda, the, 32 

Round the Town (Empire ballet), 107 

Round Tower, Thf, 164 

Routledges, 272 

Royal Aquarium, Westminster, the. 

See Westminster Aquarium 
Royal bears, the, 136 
Royal EngUsh Opera House, 72, 126, 

162, 163 
Royal Music Hall, 36, 38, 43, 185 
Royal visits to the music hall, 135 
Royalty Theatre, 81, 219, 240 241 
Royce, Edward, 249 
Ruddigore, 148 

Rush, James Bloomfield, 273 
Russell, Henry, 154 
Russell, " King of Clubs," 124 
Russell, Mabel, 200 
Ruy Bias, 200 
Ryder, John, 74 



Sacred lamp of burlesque, the, 248 
Sadler's Wells Theatre, 73, 74, 241 
St James's Hall, 91, 120, 121 
St James's Theatre, 75, 92, 130, 169, 

170, 218, 241 
St John, Florence, 82, 144, 164, 

252 
St Patrick's, Soho, 122 
St Patrick's Day, 122 
St Stephen's Review, 276 
Sal Wiry, 150 

Sala, George Augustus, no, 276 
Salaman, Malcolm, 28 
Salandra (Alhambra ballet), 107 
Salaries of celebrities, 207 
Salisbury, Lord, 278 
Sal-oh-my (Alhambra ballet), 107 
Saloon theatres, 65 
Sam Hall, 91, 124 
Sampson, the strong man, 189 
Sampson, Henry, 6 
Sanctuary, 4 
Sandow, 188, 189 
Sanger, Lord George, 58, 76 
Sanger's amphitheatre, 76 
Sanger's Circus, 136 
Santley, Charles, 39 
Santley, Kate, 76, 87, 106 
Sara, Mademoiselle, 150 
Sarah Bernhardt of the music halls, 

the, 59 
Sarcey, Francisque, 23 



300 



INDEX 



Sassoons, the, 88 

Saunders, Joe (George Leybourne), 

„ 37 

Savage Club, 30, 177 

Saville. Eliza, 8 

Saville, Kate, 8, 9 

Saville, Mrs J. F., 8 

Saville House, 87 

Savoy, 255 

Savoy Theatre, 50, 71, 154, 198 

Sayers, Tom, 37, 84, 238 

Scala Theatre, 82, 245 

School, 243 

School for Scandal, The, 241 

Scotland Yard, New, 72 

Scott, Clement, i, 24, 25, 26, [29, 30, 
35, 88, 173, 176 

Scott, George, 90 

Scott Ramsey (Oscar Wilde), 148 

Scott's Restaurant, 41 

Seaman, Isaac, 278 

Seasons, The (Alhambra ballet), 107 

Seaside, The (Empire ballet), 107 

Secrets, 150 

Secrets of the Harem, 150 

Sedger, Horace, 163, 218 

Serious Family, The, 2, 3 

Seven Dials, 162 

Seven Tankards and the Punch- 
bowl, 36 

Seymour, Katie, 109, 253 

Shaftesbury Avenue, 73 

Shaftesbury Theatre, 72, 91, 117 

Shah of Persia.i.SS, 149 

Shakespeare, 50, 113, 164, 227, 236, 
240, 241, 242, 246, 248, 259 

Shakespeare and Dickens, Holt's 
" nigHt with," 155 

Shakespeare spelled ruin, 242 

Sheard, loi 

Sheridan, R. B., 12, 174, 241 

Sheridan's Bon Mots, I'j^ 

Sherrington, Louie, 96, 212 

Shirley, Arthur, 23, 24, 69 

Shirley, Madge, 88 

Siddons, Mrs Scott, 9 

Sidney Daryl, 236, 237 

Sign of the Cross, The, 27, 28, 206 

Stiver King, The, 80 ■ 

Simmonds, Harry, 66 

Simple Country Maid, the, 58 

Simpson, Mercer, 235 

Simpson, Palgrave, 239 

Simpson, T. B., 12, 14 

Simpsons, 145 

Sims, G. R., 261 



Sinclair, Archdeacon, 26 

Sinden, Topsy, 109 

Singing Witch in Macbeth, Mrs 

Kendal as the, 11 
Sir Antony Absolute (Pinero's), 244 
Sir Charles (in The Little Treasure), 9 
Sir Francis (in The Robbers), 9 
Sir Roger de Coverley (Empire ballet), 

107 
Sismondi, 88 

" Sisters " in the music halls, 60 
Sita (Alhambra ballet), 107 
Sketch, 276 
Sketchley, Arthur, 3 
Slap Bang, here we are again 

See Comic Songs 
Slater, Charles Dundas, 90, 195 
Sleary, Mr, 176 
Sleeper Awakened, The, 164 
Sleeping Beauty, The (Alhambra 

ballet), 107 
Smifi, O. P. Q. Philander, 29 
Smith, Albert, 154 
Smith, E. T., 14, 84, 183 
Smith, H. Newson, 42, 44, 45, 145 
Smith, J. C, 72 
Smithson, Georgina, 96, 212 
Society, 25, 234, 236, 237, 238, 239, 
240, 242, 243, 244 

Society (newspaper), 276 

Society Butterfly, 176 

Soho Square, 182 

Soldene, EmUy, 73, 106 

Soldiers of the Queen (Alhambra 
ballet), 107 

Song of Sixpence, A , 179 

Sonnhammer, 41 

Sons of Britannia, 273 

Sophia, Annie and, 156 

Sorcerer, The, 202 

Sothern, E. A., 237, 241 

Soutar, Robert, 248 

South London Music Hall, 104, 185 

South Square, Gray's Inn, 2 

Sparkling Moselle. See Comic 
Songs 

Spectresheim, 106 

Spencer, Edward, 251 

Spencer, Herbert, 233 

Sporting Times, 60, 204, 250, 251 

Sports of England (Empire ballet), 
107 

Spurgeon, Cj. H., 185 

Squire, The, 244 

Stahl, Rose, 116, 167 

" Stalled Ox," 204 



301 



INDEX 



standard, The, 190 

Standard Theatre, 63, 67, 68, i8z 

Stanfield Hall, 273 

Standing, Herbert, 88 

Staple Inn, 4, 5 

Stead, The Cure, 38 

Stead, W. T., 276 

Stephens, Pottinger, 250, 251, 263 

Sterling, Mrs, 74 

Stevens, Alfred Peck (Alfred Vance), 

92 
Stoker, Bram, 26, 224, 225 
StoU, J. G., 229 
StoU, Oswald, 47, 229, 333 
Stone, George, 252 
Strand Theatre, the, 38, 71, 72, 81, 

113, 116, 240, 248 
Strand, the, 42, 44, 45, 80, 81, 83, 

149, 246 
Strand Magazine, 276 
Strand Music Hall, the, 44, 243, 247 
Strange, Frederick, 86, 104 
Stranger, The, 10 
Strathlogan, 173 
Stratton, Eugene, 213 
Streets of London, The, 79 
Stukeley (in The Gamester), 9 
Sublime Porte, the, 150 
Suburban theatre, growth of the, 73 
Sullivan, Gilbert and, 71, 81, 154, 

202 
Sullivan, J. F., 3 
Sullivan, Sir Arthur, 135, 162, 186, 

205 
Sun, The, 278 
Sun Music Hall, Knightsbridge, the, 

93 
Sunday Times, The, i, 3, 31, 174, 175, 

177, 178, 179, 180, 181, 182, 183, 

184 
Supper Club, the, 126 
Surrey Theatre, the, 63, 68, 73 
Sutherland, the Duke of, 87 
Sutton, Henry, 145 
Swanboroughs, the, 81, 82 
Swanborough, Ada, 240 
Swans, The (Alhambra ballet), 106 
Sweeney Todd, 235 
Sweet Lavender , 71, 220 
Sweet Nellie's Blue Eyes. See Comic 

Songs 
Sweet Violets. See Comic Songs 
Swinburne, Algernon Charles, 5, 26 

Syers, 42 
Syndicate, the, 42 



Talbot, F. A., 270 

Tame Cats, 168 

Taming of the Shrew, The, 164 

Tanner, J. T., 202, 203 

Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay . See Comic 

Songs 
Taylor, Tom, 80 
Telegraph, The Daily, 26, 173, 178, 

179, 247, 250 
Tempest, Marie, 19, 200, 209 
Temple Bar, 274 

Temptation (Alhambra ballet), 107 
Tennyson, Lord, 169, 170 
Terriss, WiUiam, 171, 227 
Terry children, 79 
Terry, Edward, 44, 71, 220, 248, 249 
Terry, Ellen, 77, 141, 227, 257 
Terry, Kate, 242 
Terry's Theatre, 71 
Thackeray, W. M., 44, 119, 169 
ThaUa Club, 126 
There's 'Air. See Comic Songs 
They're all very fine and large. 

See Comic Songs 
Thomas, Brandon, 220 
Thomas, Moy, 30 
Thompson, Alfred, 276 
Thompson, Lydia, 81, 117, 194 
Thompson, William (Bendigo), 19 
Thome, Thomas, 240 
Thornton, Richard, 160 
Three Weeks after Marriage, 241 
Tich, Little, 213 
Tichborne, Sir Roger, 99 
Ticket-of-Leave Man, The, 11, 25, 69, 

80, 81 
Tilley, Vesta, 58, 214 
TiUy Slowboy, 260 
Time Tries All, 10 
The Times (play), 220 
The Times (newspaper), 5, 25, 75, 79, 

100, 220, 242, 248 
The Tivoli Bier Garten, 43 
Tin Can, Barnard's, 231 
Tipperary, 100 

Titania (Alhambra ballet), 107 
Tit-Bits, 276 

Tivoli, the, 42, 43, 44, 45, 165 
Tom Stylus, 236 
Tom Thumb, 257 
Tom Wildrake, 273 
Toole, J. L., 35, ^l, 74, 248, 259. 

260, 261, 262 
Toole's_^Theatre, 31, 71, 81 



302 



INDEX 



Tooral-laddy. See Comic Songs 
Topical Times, The, 251 
Traviaia, 29 
Tree, Sir Herbert, 30, 50, 130, 148, 

2og 
Trewey, 186, 266, 267 
Trial of Effie Deans, The, 75 
Tribune, The, 278 
Trilby, 50 

Trocadero, 78, 123, 124 
Troy, legends of, in burlesque, 

240 
Truefit's, 181 
Truth, 275 
Turner, Sallie, 88 
Two Flags, The (Alhambra ballet), 

107 
Two Girls of Good Society. See 

Comic Songs 
Two Lovely Black Eyes. See Comic 

Songs 
Two Roses, 13 
Tyburn, 4 
Tzigane, The (Alhambra ballet), 107 

U 

Under One Flag (Empire ballet), 107 

Under the Clock, 1 66 

Up in a Balloon. See Comic Songs 

Urban, Charles, 267 

Used Up, 241 



Vagg, Samuel. See Collins, Sam 

Valentine, 252 

Vance, Alfred, 44, 58, 92 ; his death 

on the Stage, 93, 137, 155 
Vanity Fair, z^g, 275 
Vaudeville, the, 172, 240, 246 
Vaughan, Kate, 14, 69, 109, 124, 

249, 253 

Vaughan, Susie, 14 

Vauxhall, 11, 12, 14, 33 

Venne, Lottie, 11, 257 

Venus, 240 

Versailles (Empire ballet), 107 

Vert-Vert, 149 

Vestris, Madame, 80, 226, 239 

Vestris, WilUam (minstrel), 136, 164 

Vezin, Herman, 74 

Victoria and Merry England (Al- 
hambra ballet), 107 

Victoria, the Princess, 259 



Victoria, Queen, 8, 119, 136, 175, 

176, 258, 259 
Victoria Theatre, the, 68 
Viennese music, 205 
Vigilance Society, the, 190 
village Coquettes, The, 155 
Villains at the Vic, 68 
Villiers, Edward, 42 
Villiers, Lizzie, 59 
Villikins and his Dinah. See Comic 

Songs 
Vincenti, 107 

Vineland ['Em.^ire ballet), 107 
Vining, Henry, 79, 240 
Vital Spark, the. See Jenny Hill 
Vocal Spark, the, 58 
Vokes Family, 211 
Volante in The Honeymoon, Mrs 

Kendal as, 10 

W 

Wainwright, Henry, 67 

Wait till the Turn of the Tide. See 

Comic Songs 
Waldorf Theatre, the, 72 
Walking in the Zoo. See Comic Songs 
Wallett, W. F., 258, 259 
WalUs, Ellen Lancaster, 72 
Waltz Dream, The, 228 
Wanted a Governess. See Comic 

Songs) 
War, 243 

War, the Franco-German, 243 
Ward, Artemus, 2 
Wardropers, the, 156 
Wardroper, Walter, 88 
Warner, Charles, 74, 262 
Warner, Mrs, 73, 74 
Warren, Ernest, 275 
Warren, Minnie, 257 
Watch Cry, The, 239 
Watch on the Rhine, The, 105 
Waterloo Club, the, 126 
Watts, Theodore, 26 
Watts, Walter, 80 
We Don't Want to Fight. See Comic 

Songs 
Webster, Ben, 74, 128, 129 
Weldon, Mrs Georgina, 263 
Wellesley, Colonel Fred, 124 
Wellington, the Duke of, 41 
West, Mrs Cornwallis, 194 
Westminster Aquarium, 76, 135, 

185, i86', 187, 188, 189, 190, 191, 

192, 211 



303 



INDEX 



West London Theatre, the, 236 
Wesleyan Methodists and the 

Aquarium, 76, 185 
Weston's Royal Music Hall, 36, 74, 

242 
When a Man's Single, 16 
Where did you get that Hat ? 98 
Where's the Cat, 147, 172 
Whirlwind, The, 175 
Whistler, J. M'N., 174, 175, 177 
White, Arnold, 6 
White Cat, The, 105 
White City, the. 
White Lion, the, 36 
White Pilgrim, The, 199 
Whitechapel murders, 67 
Whitehead, Fanny, 89 
Whitehall Review, The, 275 
Whitney Theatre, 72 
Whittington, 106 
Whole Hog or None, The. See 

Comic Songs 
Wicked World, The, 147 
Wieland, Harry, 190 
Wigan, Alfred, 80 
Wigan, Horace, 247 
Wilde of the Alhambra, 84, 86 
Wilde, Oscar, 147, 148, 170 
Wilde, Willie, 26 
Wilhelm, 108 
William IV., 236 
Williams, Arthur, 252 
Williams, Bransby, 155 
WUliams, Percy, 54 
Willing, James, jun., 182 
Wilmot, Charles, 224 
Wilton, Marie, 82, 234, 235, 236, 237, 

238, 240, 243, 244 
Wilton, Sara, 65 
Winchester, the, 32 
Wine, songs about, 93 



Winter Garden, New York, the, 75 

Winter's Tale, A , 79 

Wiry Sal, 150 

Within the Law, 200 

Wood, Matilda. See Marie Lloyd 

Woodin's (WiUiam), Carpet Bag, 81, 

154 
Wolf in Sheep's Clothing, A , 242 
Wolseley, Lord, 30 
Wolsey, 227 

Wombwell's Menagerie, 136 
Wonderland, 65 
Wood, Mrs Henry, 274 
Wood, Mrs John, 260 
World, The, 3, 26, 168, 175, 179, 275 
Wot Cheer, Ria ? See Comic Songs 
Wright, Haidee, 27 
Wycherley, 113 
Wyndham, Sir Charles, 71, 81, 172, 

262 
Wyndham 's Theatre, 71 



Yardley, William, 250, 251 

Yates, Edmund, 3, 29, 168, 169, 175 

Yolande, 106 

York Corner, the, 62 

Young, Charles, 240 

Young Men of Great Britain, 273 



Zangwill, Israel, 275 

Zazel, 187, 188, 211 

Zazel ! Zazel I See Comic Songs 

ZerUna, 238 

Zoeo, 189, 190, 191 

Zulus, Farini's, 188 



PRINTED BY THE RIVERSIDE PRESS LIMITED 
EDINBURGH 



